 
 
    
    

Gi SE er i rf bs g
Epes U2 fh ae = + .
- 7 a ‘ oe

site re + ’ , ie
: es wee . : ;

Mer ae oat re) ,

= at i ee << :

EO oF Det ee ,

os rei nt ¢

ee ae Pe

* |

z * =

| Pd es
he ws

=f

e

“x:

na Fil
; i
/

+

;
a

ock Parliament Opens Tonight |

I we j and os a eel 7
ot a
4 er Piss Pell OTT ect? es, 1s
Se el HNUNNALANAN NAN
i

By . ie s

4
=

ri

ue

i,

a?
— *

 
   

 
 

SSNCSUUEIUUOSEUUTULEUOU OU ELNSEU EAL

  
  

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

se!) Dalhousi
be Sunday : oe \
eae 2.30 , THE COLLEGE
ee i MM
é namin
r Ler Be ee: Utes
as — raphe Siete oe Ge Bae EIR rds Sena ee Sin 8 Wa No. 18
| VOL. HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 28, 1936
a Wi ere eke tae

ELECTIONS TUESDAY

ALUMNUS TELLS STORY|Y EARBOOKPLEBISCITE|HEAVY POLL EXPECTED
OF MOCK PARLIAMENT 70 TAKE BIG PART ININ COUNCIL ELECTION
—s NEW COUNCIL VOTE ——

  

 

 

Pranks of Dominion’s Politicians Re-Told As Present

Classes Nominate Their Representatives To Stand For
Parliament Re-Opens.

The Council Elections.

 

 

For several years it has been sug-;able end of placing a copy in the

 

——

ect, ‘ : T E ying are the candidates
‘ S Rover Dal Review To gested that, if a Year Book is to be | hands of every member of the Stu- | McGill Students a oo a = oa
Be ore te oe OLE | published regularly at Dalhousie, a|dent Body, for whom the book is ae spec
I entered the Dalhousie Law School | Celebrate Birthday
as a full time student in the fall of

upon the Student Body for that} The Council resolved that the
purpose in order to avoid the pro-| Student Body should be asked, on

ARTS AND SCIENCE
Class ’89: Wright, Johnson.

 

1910. The genial and learned Dr.

 

Weldon was Dean and Mr. Justice}! On March 7th, 1936, the Review hibitive drain upon the student funds the occasion of the eats Coun- Stories carried in local newspape ‘ | eee pear se meee Jean
Russell was secretary. The students| Publishing Company, Limited will |now available for the many activities cil elections, March 3rd, to express recently gave details of student peti- oe N a se at
Las of these days included Neil Mac-|celebrate its 15th birthday. On|which they have to cover. its opinion by voting on the follow-/tions at McGill expressing _Tegre! Ss : a = oe toss, Helen
; Arthur (now County Court Judge) March 7th, 1921, the Company was Past experience has shown that ing question:— over the retirement of Dr. Stephen olman, Gene Morrison.
| Joe Pat MacIsaac, Colin Maclsaac,|incorporated under the Nova Scotia|the average annual deficit in con- “Do you favour making the |Leacock, and declared that 150 stu-| LAW
. __R, W. Maclellan, K.C., Col. J. W.|Companies Act with the object of|nection with Dalhousie Year Books |

8 ces lents had signed the main petition. | McSween, MclIvor
ay: ‘ : ¢ sie ar Book 2 ay |e : MeSween, Mclvor.
MacDonald (of Pictou) Arthur Mor-| publishing the Dalhousie Review, has-been in the neighbourhood of Dalhousie Year. Book a perma

  
  
  
  
    

 

|day’s elections:
separate levy would have to be made! published. z Leacock ee ee

igi i . : t institution by the payment, The petition reads: GLEE CLUB
. : tors were:|$700.00. The maior factor contrib-| ™" ; .
on (now Editor of the Montreal} The original incorpora : j ; aKa P me ye NG ae een dae
Hi aH J. S. Smiley, M.L.A., L. A.| Messrs. D, MacGillivrary, G. Fred|uting to the annual deficits has been| °” aon ee eee las We, the students of the De- | Pres: Sandy McPherson, Wallace
a organelle ne rt J dge) | Pearson, K.C., I. C. Stewart, and J.' the lack of support from the stu-| CVvetyY Student paying the Stu- partment of Economics and Politi- | Roy.
“ Martel (former County Court Judge a dents’ Council fee, of an extra al Sci f McGill University Vice-Pres: Fran Drummie,, Mabel
A. A. Dysart (now Premier of New|S. Roper, K.C, dents, of whom a large number has cal science of McG aes
5 sare ce 7 izati i h : : levy of $2.00, in return for respectfully desire to acquaint the | McKenzie, Betty Pearsons.
i ieee ick) Mr. Justice Ryan of New| The organization meeting of the| each year failed to honour their : ‘ : p y :
ae _ Brunswick) r, Justice Ry : al Gasinans tock ‘place on, ‘March.6th Gaiiranta. suk “tere -ntlavieaninse tine which said student shall receive Board of Governors with our deep Business Mgr: Murray Gould,
ethno) a sagt pp cre cons 1921, and the first meeting of the | which they had he ie eee a copy of the Year Book for that regret at Dr. Leacock’s superan- |Alec Hart, Jack Arnell.
while others have|incorporators was held on the 12th} and which were printed for them in a yeas uation. | MEDICINE
eo gone to glory. day of March, 1921. The first an- good faith. ae r eee ee Ree “We feel that Dr. Leacock is | Lea, Gosse, Nicholson, Day Strawn.
[Sam My own class included M. A. Mac- nual meeting took place on March At its last meeting, the Council YOS.. 66. .e sees, still an educational and inspira- ——
} Pherson (formerly Attorney-General | 31st, 1921. of the Students came to the conclu- ING ive Se Wists s Bea 3h0G |

tional source to his students. We

: and Provincial Treasurer of Saskat-| The first issue of the Dalhousie hasten to say that his loss will be

D.A.AC. Select

; sion that, if a Year Book were to| [If the Student Body should vote
_ chewan, J. E. Michaud (“Joe” now | Review was published in April, 1921, | appear regularly at Dalhousie, it

; ee
.
ee

 

 

; ‘ee in favour of such a levy, it will then] deeply felt for, as students, we Nominees
Minister of Fisheries at Ottawa) R.|and it received written appreciation | would be necessary for each student | be the duty of the Council to request| have had the privilege of woroking
| D. Graham (now leader of the gold|from Sir Robert Falconer, Rt. Hon. to pay on registration the sum ofthe Senate to collect such fee at reg-| in his Department, and we are | wd
| rush in Nova Scotia) E. E. Parker,|Sir Robert Borden, Chief Justice] 9909, in return for which he or she istration along with the $10.00 fee| aware of his sterling qualities as With the return of President
K.C., of Halifax, J. D. Vair (leading | Harris, Dr. A. H. Buckley, D. R. would receive a copy of the Year

now paid. an educator.

The students are asked to give
the|this question their earnest considerfinancial uncertainty of the venture,|ation and to vote intelligently on
but would also achieve the desir-! next Tuesday.

Barnhill, the Managing Committee

“This is not an attempt to take |0f the D. A. A. C. convened Monday
issue with a decision made by the |€Vening in the Committee Room for
Board of Governors so much as_ |the main purpose of selecting the
an attempt to convey to the Board |0minees for the election of the Exof Governors in some concrete |ecutive of the Club at the general

insurance broker) A. A. MacKay| Clarke, Esq., His Grace Archbishop | Book on its publication in the spring. |
(now in the Southern States, G. C.| Worrell, President Walter Murray, This would not only eliminate
Dickson (“Shorty” of the New/Sir Andrew MacPhail, Sir John WilliBrunswick Bar) Freddy Long of the; ston, and many others.

British Columbia Bar, A. A. Skinner} Mr. Dougald MacGillivry, L.L.D.

 

 

 

was i f the Com- 2 athe
of Calgary, and Clarence MacDonald was the first President o T form some small part of the loss |Student elections in March. After
Mahoney of West Indies. pany, and Dr. H. L. Stewart is the VO 5 | G R EG U LA f 10 N Ss felt. by us,+hia students.” considerable frank discussion the
As kids at College we joined in all first and only Editor. Mr. MacGilli- Rai

tinued i ffi til 1933 following wwere selected:—
: : ice unti

Sy senor Bre pete te ei igs = Boca by Mr. H. E.| 1. Any person wishing to vote designated in the Directory of
es ee ae ay Mahon the present President, who/must first give his or her name and| Students.

the Mock Paslinealink being two of |Unfortunately is now laid aside by Faculty (and Department) to a | (d) A student taking an affilthese. The former being compulsory, | illness and cannot attend this meet- Presiding Officer. The latter sha iated course for a degree ths
and the latter voluntary. As far as ing. verify this informatoin in the hone Faculty of Arts & Science ana
the Court was concerned, cases were| he following have been the direc-| tory of Students and the person shall] 9a degree in the professi ohhl
set by the Dean to be studied and | tors Since incorporation. The late G.|be permitted to vote subject to the Faculty and who, during the

It was also stated that a petition was being circulated in favor
of retaining the services of Dr.
Martin, Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine. The petitions were addressed to the McGill governors,
and the one in favor of Dr. Leacock was addressed to Secretary of

| For President—Edward Barnhill,
Medicine; Allan MacSween, Law.

| For Vice-President—John Carroll,
)Arts and Science; Morris Dean, Engineering.

For Secretary — George Corston,
Arts and Science; Edward Cragg,

 

: We Arts and Science: Archie MacKenz?
argued before him on a given date S. Campbell, L.L.D., The Hon. R. B.| following conditions: present year, is enrolled in that | the University. Mite Sea Cd aitis rehie MacKenzie,
These cases were presented with all| Bennett, The late George Henderson,! (a) No person shall be per- | professional Faculty shall vote = The following recommendations
the dignity prevailing in our courts (Continued on Page Three) mitted to vote whose names is on in said professional Faculty only é ‘

; were pre; at the meet
the list of Special Students at- —even though he or she may, presented at the meeting and

and decisions were given, by the : ve M D are to be handed on to the Executive
‘ . x this year, be receiving a degree unro ay ;

Jud ro or con. Mine : ? > for next year, namely:—
cE Pao ae eee. : W omen of Mt. A. to (b) No student marked, in in the Faculty of Arts & Science poe eens

tached to the Directory.
lence, 1. That the D. A. A. C. mak
the Directory of Students, as (e) Students listed as “Pre- March 13th - ©. make
There was less formality about the F ll D ] C -E : registered in‘ King’a College

: . : arrangements with some particular
opening of Mock Parliament, and Professional” (e.g Pre-Medical, doctor to act as pliyateisii ae surlonger preparation. For three years, geon in all necessary cases that may
I reported the doings of this “au- arise. The purpose is to lower the
gust” body for the Gazette and got total bills for doctors’ services.
mes into trouble every issue. My most

 

shall be permitted to vote except

pre-Law, etc.) must vote in the
those whose names may be at- Faculty of Arts & Science.

 

This year Munro Day will be for
the students, Alumnae and Alumni,
and their guests only. The students

February 29th occuring only every
four years, the girls are going in
for it in a big way. Not content

tached to the list of Special Polls are open from 9.30 a.m.
Students and marked as having | ynti] 6 p.m,

oe, a3 Ss wi 2 admi 2. That one member of the M:;
ai wae, aid the Dalhousie Students’ es af me and their guests will be admitted aber of the Mantee vivid recollection is that of the clos- with staging a Leap Year dance, ain hee Presiding officers are to wait at free, while all others admitted must | aging Committee be appointed to
eo, - ing session of the year 1912. Great they are going to put out the Argosy (c) A student may exercise on pay the sum of twenty-five cents|look after all advertising in connec- preparations were made and all the bn diet Gs. ballots counted, and results certified.

each,

This is “Dalhousie’s Day” and
every Dalhousian should make an
effort to attend. There will be/given as to Sames, etc. Such a complenty of action, plenty of dancing, |Mittee would have the responsibility
and most important of all, plenty : seeing that this situ

one vote only and that vote
shall be cast in the Faculty of M. M. RANKIN,
which he or she is a member as Sec.-Treas.

tion with D. A. A. C. matters. In
the past complaints have been made
that suitable notice has not been

clay pipes, chewing tobacco, pictou
twist and other available parliamen_____tary accessories were procured at all the slams we have made at the
_ reat expense. An edict had been feminine section of mankind in gen- ‘
fe eo lested by the ever popular| eral and of this campus in particu. Dal Loses Radio Debate
Rt 2 Senate that “no smoking would be | jay. Something tells us that the boys
ca allowed in the Moot Court Room”, will be lying low for the next week.| Dalhousie dropped the decision in with the problems of Canada.
| _ This session of Parliament was con-| 1+ hasn't definitely been reported as|the final radio debate to St. F. X.,| Simon Webber maintained that
_vened to carry out the law of the : : sf ; bstitutes w lly wr that
‘ yet whether La Ferrette will go into : substitutes were morally wrong, tha
‘Medes and Persians. Allison Praart and with it, the Shield won last year

ee. : action in the Co-ed number or not. Ee Wichwed @ Pink they were but a sop to the provincial
| __Was Speaker of the House in those Anyway, we are assured of a good|°¥ “!?@rdson and Pink. interests which had been robbed at
E “2 days. His was a noble figure and |jccue of the Argosy. The Dalhousie| Parlee opened for Dalhousie, and Confederation. We still have our

a _ his silk hat rested placidly on his girls issued the Gazette on Feb. 14th | Stated that because of our geograph- problems, but our powers of taxa" Be __ immobile countenance. Freddy Long and made a fine job of it, but we are |i¢al and economic problems, general tion have been taken from us, and

| __-Was the Clerk of the House and in sure that our coeds are every bit as|!egislation was inapplicable, and)the interests of the provinces could |hout.

. accordance with the long observed capable, if not more so than the Dal-|these problems could be best taken|be best taken care of by a provincial | here.

ee _ custom of the Nova Scotians of that housie girls. care of by granting more powers to government which could act quickly.

__ Period, @ Liberal Government was in| Miss Ruth Likely, '36 will be Edi-|the provinces.

ver headed by one John S. Smiley,

About now we are beginning to
tremble in our shoes on account of

   
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
   
   
 
  

 

 

polls until ballot boxes are
| ation is over
food. come,

This year Mr. Stirling will present
his gymnastic group and a spectacular fifteen minutes is expected. The
boys from the professional schools
are confident in defeating the Studley boys for the Munro Day Shield.

A new event on the Munro Day
programme will be a single sticks

Professor Mercer requested the
Co-operation of the D, A. A. GC, in
the future in the planning of the
Gymnasium schedules so that times
as suitable as possible could be arranged for next year. Such a proposal is welcome and will do much
to assist in the matter of Interfaculty Sport.

The proposal that the D. A. A. C.
have control over its own finances,
after being granted a certain amount
ing off without a hitch, so if you are|by the Council of the Students, was

 

 

 

There will be plenty of action

The success of Munro Day depends

George Coughlin stated that we!on a large crowd, and the events gotor-in-Chief, with Charlotte Smith,| Neering, St. F. X. leader, stated|should have a uniform government

A vor Amherst, an orator of Ruth Simpson and Janet Mack form-|that uniform action could be obtain-|in order to have a united Canada. ! a contestant or spectator do your|discussed. President Barnhill is to
Ee eee Mich a3 ow. Murdo ing the nucleus of the staff. Give|ed from a greater centralization of | Otherwise, sectional interests would] part and help make this year’s cele-, consider the point and report at the
are . MacPherson who had his | them your support girls and let’s see | powers, that centralized government | increase, leading to a break

! -up of|bration of Munro Day the best in|next meeting of the Managing Comrm Continued from Page Three) what you can do. was the logical method of dealing | Confederation. the history of Dalhousie. mittee.
ies a 
  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S.

Printed by the

a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Something to
Think About

Another question on which Ontario
and the Maritimes split is whether
college students should participate in

 

The Visitor

[he man had come again. He had
come so often that as the woman
peeled the potatoes for their dinner
she thought the same thoughts automatically as she had every time before.

 

 

Friday, February 28, 1936

%

Ports’ CORNER

TO THE CRITICS OF PHI DELTA THETA

y

a ; ‘ Her fear of him was lessened,
i ee. ila ponihies:; Dalhanats, whom Halifax) but the wondering, helpless feeling (With the utmost of humble apologies to J. Kilmer we affectionately
= N.G andy IRVING PINK |owes her sir a\ ee Pa of|yemained. He reminded her of a dedicate this jingle)
N. GREEN B. 2442 | Canada,” replied last Saturday. dead tree, mysterious, alone in that ae
; ink - all here must have read
3 Bae Assistants On that day certain Dal students he had seemed to have lost something u think that all here m - ieee had
; LEN KITZ EDITH BLAIR BILL SUTHERLAND and graduates were instrumental m that would bear directly upon them- Lines written by some femme wm ved.
Society . Editor Literary Editor Sports Editor | organizing the youth of this province | ..jves, instead of speaking vaguely Some femme without a single hope,

MERLE PURTILL

ELISABETH BALLEM

MOCK PARLIAMENT

: "TONIGHT marks the opening session of the annual Mock

Parliament at the Dalhousie Law School. Contrary to
common opinion this is not a boisterous gathering, oe a
farcial reproduction of a session of parliament, rather it is
carried on in strict accordance with parliament procedure
and proves an excellent training for all those who participate, as well as an opportunity to hear a studied discussion
on all those questions which come up In the session at
Ottawa. As such this should be of interest not only to the
law student but to every person in the University.

Two Dominion Prime Ministers, one Speaker of the
House of Commons, fifteen leaders of provincial parties and
governments and numerous cabinet ministers and members

_ of Parliament and Legislatures have attested to the vitaliz
ing influence of such training and tradition. —

That these have not spent their force is clear at the
present moment Mr. Bennett, Mr. Cahan, Mr. Fullerton,
Mr. Tilley and the premier of Nova Scotia, and the leader
of the Opposition, Mr. Harrington are graduates of the law
chool and of the Mock Parliament. Dalhousie Law School
in the Mock Parliament has established a tradition which is
a noble monument to posterity.

THE MALCOLM HONOR AWARD

— the highest tribute that the students of
Dalhousie can pay to one of their members——
JN

 

i iarch of
the words of late Archibald MacMechan, patriarch 0
Dalhousie litterateurs and scribe of Nova Scotia tradi
BEN DuBILIER

into a body pledged to carry the

sension these priestly disciples of
that glorious religion—for Liberals

about ideals and practical subjects

evening that the knock had come at
the door. She was never nervous as
the average woman is. She opened

 

like Baptists are born not made —|the door calmly and waited for the

that religion whose past is lost in the
mists of iniquity, will go about their
soul-inspired work, filled with “no
hope of personal gain or monetary
reward” but motivated solely by the
desire to rescue the perishing and
succour the sinning. They have looked upon the Liberal policies and
found them good — no mere opportunists of a get-rich-quick philosophy
they.

After intensive search and study
among the fads and cults of today
— after intensive investigation of
that platform to which they ever
returned—they have gone on record
as approving and in favor of the
policies of Premier King. It is a far,
far better thing that they do then
they have ever done.

*

ls

Another local cleric condemns
euthanasia as murder on the ground
that it is a gift given by God and
since He is the giver only He can
take life away. The analogy would
seem unfortunate since no one can

   
 
 
 

guest to speak first. He said nothing; she asked him to come in, he
inclined his head ever so slightly so
that she wondered if it were from
slyness, shyness, or on acknowledgment of her courtesy. He had seated
himself and asked for nothing. She
was eating a late dinner when he
came and offered the meat and
potatoes to him. He sat down and
ate silently. Because he had nothing
to say the tension was too awkward
for her to break by a question or
even a comment.

 

She thought of many reasons why
he should come thus into a woman’s
apartment. Her’s was on the ground
floor and any hungry person might
try there for a meal. But perhaps
he was never hungry, he always ate,
it was true, but with no sign of particular relish, so he must be cold or
longing for company. Here her imagination failed her for these reasons
were quite inadequate.

He was again in the sitting room,

Who wished she wasn’t such a dope.

B. 2148 Staff Artist 2 ee Pesne Linexalien te si far reach-|in exactly the same tone, wath: ‘the A babe who yenned for some good Delt,
t= Cc. F. BENTLEY : t es of the Dominion. The praise ac-| .4me facial expression and with the Bui feelinds toward feet none: he. felt
2 - Business Manager pppoe corded cannot be too high, the kudos | .,me meaningless conclusion. jut feelmgs toward her none he
re ; LAS
. R. H. SUTHERLAND DOUGL be too great. It had been on a stormy December 2
cre B. 87 B. 5787 In a world torn by strife and dis- : Then she with rankled heart of lead

Penned these lines you all have read.
She sent them in with fiendish glee

To the rag of the college by the sea.
The Gazette, which is almost dead,
Filled all its space with what she said.

“T think that I shall never see

A sober Phi Delt drinking tea.”’

These Delts whose only wish is this—
| To get themselves completely swish;

These Delts who drink their lives away

CLE

And now to me, dear friends, give ear;
list while this fear I now make clear.
Tis but the sour grapes of one

To whom we have denied our fun.

. See
Some babe who sits all day and gripes
And dreams the nasty tripe she writes.

And now, to our fair Maligner,

We pray you do. something finer.
Slinging mud is dangerous play,

And fresh Freshettes we love to slay.
Now that we are vindicated,

oh a ag Let’s skip all that has been stated

. ° ate of : waiting, waiting for what? The S SKU ‘ ‘ al.
; tions, “on July eighth, 1904, Hanes pele. exer ate OF [be compelled to accept a gift. Pe ie eae is
| Dalhousie (B.A. 03) lost his life in a g n is bats dpnle, hat of giving ad) as how tidieuloas, She a ake

i ffort to save a friend from drowning. To commemoa his heroism and to foster the spirit of unselfish
devotion to the common good the MALCOM HONOR SOCIETY was formed. To it are elected by. their fellow
students those who are judged to have lived in the college
not for themselves but for others.” Few are called upon to
make the supreme sacrifice of Jimmy Malcolm, but there
are ever students passing through Dalhousie who have, in
some measure, shown a like desire to place fellow before
self in their devotion to their University.

 

   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

that of compulsion are inconsistent.
Nor did any new-born babe ever yet
have any say as to whether or not
he would accept life. A baby’s birth
is either a happy afterthought or an
unfortunate hangover as the case
may be.

And if life is a gift that must be
accepted so must all those things

night mischievously at the thought
that she could play this game as well
as he. Perhaps he was a great
psychologist trying an experiment on
a complete stranger; perhaps when
he was satisfied with the result he
would never come again and in return send her a check with a note
explaining everything.

 

across from her still stared and| putty flat white face seemed to crack
stared and stared ... what if he

aloud and formed a smile. Perspiraknew she was weakening, then he|tion flooded her body and she slumpwould have won. She grew frantic|ed forward.
with the thought, her shaking body; A little woman was talking exlost control with her mind . . . he|citedly to the officer who stared at
still sat across from her and stared | the dead woman on the floor. “I was
until the expressionless face, the (Continued on Page Three)

And never see a sober day.

 

encroachment on Russia, and China (the puppet state of
Manchukuo), and Italy’s invasion of Ethopia. We are closer
to war than we were in 1914. Europe is “armed to the
teeth,” and although 3,000 miles away, economically it is
next door to us.

Fellow students, war and Fascism is not inevitable. It
can be prevented, but only by You and I. Steps have already
been taken to fight war and Fascism. A Canadian Peace
Movement has been formed. At this conference were present
delegates from universities in Eastern Canada and as far
west as the University of Manitoba. The objectives of this
movement were published in the last issue of the Gazette.

and sat down.
looked at her.
at him.

There was nothing attractive about
his face. He had no personality.
She had never seen him smile. She
wished that something would happen, anything, anything, anything.
Her head was singing, she must
speak, she must loudly so that she
could hear the words that would
come from her mouth above the

an unselfish ideal which will justify
the means they must employ to attain that end. And incidentally their
make-believe will have the happy result of causing them to appear noble
and self-sacrificing.

Lincoln was great because he made
the American Civil War, primarily
an economic strife, appear a fight for
| Social equality for the down-trodden.
The writer of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
achieved fame in the same incident.

He sat there and
She sat and looked

 

THE BEST

 

 
 

Fellow students, will Dalhousie lag behind or shall we

take immediate steps to form a much needed Peace Move
 

British Imperialists have always delighted in pulling the wool over their

noise in her head, but the words did
not come, would not come; she must

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

. es facrow- | tat go with it, disease, pestilence,| Ang yet the woman felt that all} ~__________________________________________.
Ny The Malcolm Honor Society is the outcome of a g and premature decay. . If it is a , “14
eee oe eect for the Ee cy those OF aM | sacrilege to get rid of the gift it is|anq that he was not the man one| WHEN YOU'VE HAD AN
order of merit to receive In sacrilege to get rid of its incidents
ran : asses who have shown themselves worthy to es would suppose or hope him to be.
neds Melohr Honor Award by their unselfish devo- ae page a ee i aa He may be mentally deranged and H O U R OF S Q U A S H "8 6
tion of time and talent in the service of their fellow Reeves: tx favor of the does not know that he is acting like
Every student in the year of Graduation 1s con- : dog who when hungry will go to the
students. ry ravages and suffering of disease. .. |}, h Pana) sc h
sidered for the award, and any number may be chosen by ‘house where food is given him.
the Committee of Selection, but the high standard de- Se peaabeky tonight, she thought, he will
manded makes the group a small one. Since its inception It is a well known legal maxim | Say something’. She was determinin 1927, only nineteen students have been its membership. that “The devil himself knows not |ed she would not be the one to speak
‘ The Committee of Selection is a special committee /|the mind of man.” A man’s intent |first and yet this man was wearing
appointed each year by the Council of the Students, com- and the true state of his feelings canon her nerves with his silence.
posed of three members of the Council, none of whom are only be known by his acts and his|~ She knew that he had read and she
graduating, and two members of the Faculty. In making oral protestations must be interpret- | thought quite extensively. She felt |
its selections the Committee is swayed very little by such ed in the light of his deeds. As a that he had let slip during his little
incidental matters as the “number of offices’ a student man acts so he thinks. |\drama more than he had intended,
has been elected or appointed to, ae tounge of a legs was a et and ery |and yet, she eo wes aoe oe he = 7
will of the student to give his ised among the Christian nations |Wwas no specialist in anything, unless, ?
ge re cis fue in the interests of his fellow nas foe Gheig- | eless ee pete om AND YOU RE FEELING A
lanity. et which applies more in|here . . she knew nothing abou
Cee nsionia of the Society is a small gold key suitably | practice the Golden Rule which is the | him. . BIT FAG G ED Oo U T eens
engraved and a parchment. These are presented on Class | essence of Christianity and requires} The meal was finished and she set
7 Day exercises. universal brotherhood and equality? |about cleaning the dishes and, as IWS
In the near future the Committee of Selection will be The Christian nations whose citi-|usual, he went into the other room 4 \\
making the award or awards for 1936. The GAZETTE zens can only be successful in busi-|to sit, not to read, not to speak, just WM as
believes that the Committee will maintain the same high ness and social life by gouging the|to sit. She was weakening. She was Wy
standard of the Society. other fellow or pagan Russia which |both mentally and physically tired Y 6” Ds. :
carries out its atheist philosophy, tonight and she felt she could not} by \re ea
WAKE UP, DALHOUSIE! “From every man according to his complete the act in the usual vs /
(Contributed) ability, to every man according to his) To go out there and sit on her side
Wake up, Dal! Wake up and survey this chaotic world, need”? of the room until he left and went
torn with strife, bleeding from the last war and ready rin his way. There was too much about
to plunge into another one. Get out of your ivory bower— Dr. Frank Crane once said that the | ‘is man to call the police. He did
| think and act! If you don’t you will be taken out, your cap _| greatness of a man lies in his ability |2° harm; he brought no pleasure to
" and gown ripped from you, and in place of your pen you will | to interpret his age; that the great-| he!) Perhaps he gained some pleasure
et be given a sword and told to go, kill your fellow man—(so_ |est man is he who comes nearest to |!" ® W@Y of which she knew nothing.
that Vickers Limited might make money). interpreting the will of the sbite:| She would drink one more cup of
cs Look at the map of Europe and see all the Fascist If a statesman he materializes their | tea, perhaps that would reinforce the
i countries: Italy, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Spain, Finland, Japan, _| Political convictions. If a writer he| strength that was failing her. And
a _ Italy, Germany, Austria, Poland. See what is happening to Says what they would all say.. This,) what if it was failing her? She
mae them. Workers, farmers and students are being crushed | however, is true only if qualified. | would not keep this up forever, but
a under the iron heel of ruthless dictatorships. Books are A man is great, at least in the neither could he, and with this
as burned, culture destroyed, free speech curtailed, and pagan- people’s estimation only if he can| thought she determined to fight until
e: ism substituted for our present day religion. achieve their end, which is inyari-,She won.
Fascism means war. I have only to point out Japan’s | ably selfish, by transforming it into} She walked into the sitting-room

 

 
     
       
           

5 ment? E. R. own eyes and everybody else’s, scream; but no sound came. The face
nei ers
phe: cr), mS eye
be a te +.

Vee

aT.e
ae Kn a
ot s = wAt

~—

eh
7 5

aed

   

oo i i ‘ 7 “ : , “ # ;
Bus “Ls co x?
i «

hit
aoe
ra rue "th

Pw
|
Ps : a
e

eae Ss

 

i

yr
te
  

4 — Fi A eee, a
rn rat ig
ey |
. " a
2 ' 5
+ é
| wou
. « ie tS

“The Revolt of Youth

 

 
  
   
 

We hear much, every generation

i as heard much, about the so-called

  

S fons volt of youth”. The headstrong,
“radical”, younger generatoin, un
      
 

_ trammelled by the traditional and
conventional manners and ideas of
_ former years, is supposed, one would

_ gather, to be out to build a better

  
 

, world, to knock the present society

_ from its foundations, and to shock

4 its grandmothers. Youth is assumed

mtb be “radical”, “flaming”, socialistic
_ atheistic, and not tied down to what

was done or thought in the “good

 

- them on a rational pasis.

old days’”’.

_ Revolt and Revolting at Dalhousie

But where is there any “revolt’’
at Dalhousie? The only revolt I have

_ ever seen was the occasional, very

occasional, “revolting” wild party of
a certain small set. The only other
phenomenon which could be called a
revolt, is the change from former
decades in that there is less college
spirit, less interest in the many extra-mural activities which are so

_valuable for full development,—but

that isn’t revolt, that’s mere laziness.

It surely isn’t radical never to pro-.

duce an original thought, never to

question the old common ideas on’

which our alleged civilization exists
—the old political parties, patriotism,
capitalism, religious dogmas, educational methods, ete.

I am not claiming that the right
course is to discard all these, but
that, if we have any claim to be real
students, to be the intellectual aristocracy of the country, we should at
least investigate them, and establish
It isn’t
revolt to get drunk every other night
—that is just stupidity. We don’t
want, or at least shouldn’t want, just
revolt for the sake of doing what
people apparently expect of us—but
what we should do is to wise up on
ourselves, look around and see what
we are missing, and attempt to get
the most out of our college “career”.

Election Revolt

Speaking of revolt, the college
elections are close at hand. Let’s
not be swung by ballyhoo, but let’s
attempt, if it is possible for any of

us to do so, to put a little thought

into the question. Let’s not, for instance, continue to allow ourselves to
be ruled by a clique; let’s kick out
the nincompoops who like to run
things but never run them very well,
and let’s attempt to get for a change
some representatives on the D.A.A.C.
and Council who have some brains
and initiative.

Beware of the man (and I have a
couple in mind at the moment) who
apparently makes a hobby of col
GAUVIN

AND

 

GENTZEL

Photographers to

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing
Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B-6992

 

‘

 

M E Take Your

THE VERSATILE MED.

The attack on this column by the
Medical Society at their meeting on
Thursday night is to be thanked
rather than censured. We appreciate the kind interest displayed and
will certainly make the most of your
criticism, and do our utmost to satisfy the ever increasing fastidiousness of our fellow Med.

or a,

Obstetrical night, conducted by the
great Benge, was marked by several
startling disclosures. Bob Jones, the
old conservative, went completely
radical when he decried the government that demands our lives in
times of war and neglects us in
utero.

Congratulations, Bob, it was a
great essay; you certainly deserved
to win the coveted prize.

* * *

Orchids to Enid from all who attended the meeting for adding just
that right touch of humor when the
profoundness of the entire procedure
was beginning to elicit the occasional
yawn.

 

= * *

Second prize winner, Cy Zoder,
was relegated to the realms of Arch
Fiend par excellence, when, in his
lengthy criticism of Bob’s thesis he
remarked that the topic for next
year’s Obstetric and Gynaecology
Essay be based on “Individual Research”,

Note, third year Meds, the topic,
“Clinical and Social Deductions to be
made from a study of the work of
the Antenatal Clinic of the Dalhousie
Public Health Clinic’”’.

* * *

Russel McLellan and Eddie Murray
are also to be congratulated for their
prize-winning essays. While we’re
at it we might as well congratulate
the entire fourth year class for creating so high a standard in their
writing.

It becomes increasing evident that
there is no lack of ability among
the students for literary material to
literally swamp the Dalhousie medical journals of the future.

2. 2s ox

From the report of the Editor, the
Medical Journal is away to a good
start. With sufficient copy to fill
the Journal and with nearly enough
advertisements to already pay for
the first edition, all that is needed to
make real what was once a myth is
the 100% support by the Student
Body.

On behalf of the Student Body we
can safely say to you, Editor: we
are behind you and your staff, and
every one of us will own a copy of
the D. M. J. the day it is published.

For the position of Medical representative to the Students’ Council
five were nominated: Clarence Gosse,
G. Fred Day, Gordon Lea, Robert
Strong, Fraser Nicholson.

A word to you who are chosen:
“The wise know that foolish legislation is a rope of sand, which perishes

lecting offices, of the type who wants
to be elected for half a dozen different offices just for the sake of being
a big-shot—it is a sure sign that he
can’t fill any of them efficiently.
There is the exception, of course,
(thank God for him) who can handle

DICINE| [ACT s

DALHOUSI

 

   

 

Yes, the girls make good newspapermen—if you know what we
mean. Of course, it is easy to understand how and why they gathered
the necessary information to form
the basis of the news stories—well,
stories, anyway. We were about to
point out that the editors lived
amongst the best news gathers, but
then we have said too many things
about the Hall, some of which we
didn’t mean.

* *€ *

One of our personal reporters told
us how one Dalhousian greeted that
leap-year edition. Upon glancing at
the front page his face lighted up
for there was a picture—but let us
quote the lad himself: “Goody!
goody! there’s a picture of Edith
Blair that I can cut out.” Doubtless
Prof. Page can give a psychological
explanation of the lad’s conduct. As
for ourselves, it would seem that the
happy youth was contented to cut out
the picture not having the savior
faire to cut out others.

* * *

We were glad to read in that sensational issue of two weeks ago that
at last the Hall girls were attempting to secure publicity in the Gazette
(in order to right an obvious wrong)
rather than in other sections of the
press. We agree with the writer of
that article that many unnecessary
remarks have been directed towards
the Hall. But think of the loss to the
college if there were no Hall! Think
of all the interesting stories about
college life that would never have
been given to a waiting world.

Certainly the Hall has played its
part in promoting the truth about
life at college. True, the girls are
faced with odd news stories concerning their doings but they should
realize that they are being martyred
in order to provide the Gazette with
reading material. As a matter of
fact the HALL is to jokesters what
the story about the Scotsman is to
Herbie.

There was only one item in that
defence which we cannot subscribe
to; the writer referred to the Hall
as “ours” meaning “belonging to the
girls.’ This might have been true
once but after reading about that
$13,000 deficit we are of the opinion
that “ours” should refer to all who
contribute to the Dalhousie exchequer.

* * *

Rumour tells us that the Editors
of this paper have been chuckling
ever since the Editors of the Co-ed
issue were able to outwit the cemetery-man from New Glasgow. Yes,
the Color Boys had often — so we
have been unreliably informed—tried
to outwit the aforementioned gentleman but never quite succeeded. The
moral to be drawn from this would
seem to be never try to outwit a lady
editor. It also might tend to show
that the so-called power of the press
is nothing more than sex appeal.

a lot of irons in the fire, but he is a|'" the Twisting.” Yours is a great

rare creature, almost extinct.

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of

CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

 

responsibility. You represent the
strongest faculty at Dalhousie. Merit
our trust.

2 * *

That glorious evening, when undergraduate mingles freely with graduate, when student and professor are
seen amiably reposed in the arms of
Bacchus, is but a week hence.
| Through the work of Carl Stoddard,
this year’s Medical Banquet promises
to be a wow.

Time: Saturday, March 7th.

Place: Halifax Hotel.

Hour: 8 p.m. to

Price: $1.00.

 

The late I. C. Stewart, G. Fred Pear
V. C. MacDonald, K.C.

E GAZETTE

 

Page Three

 

To The Co-Eds |ALUMNUS TELLS—

At least there seems to be one
girl who practises what she preaches
about Leap year proposals—suppose
you have all notice Fran’s pin.

* * af

After Saturday’s paper came out,
many people wondered just where
Teddy Crease was when the picture
was taken. Not much fun eating
supper alone, eh Helen?

* a %

Our editors have started a new
club. Just ask Nate what he
Boostering ?

is

We wonder if Char and Dougald
make echoes all the long time that
they spend in the alcove.

2 oe

Bob Batt has broken the age old
adage “gentlemen prefer blondes”,
and got himself a new creed while
he was in Sackville. Is that why
the pretty Acadia brunette came to

Halifax for the week-end.
* * x

find the “Blue Moon” warmer than
the steps of the Archives’ Building.

+ * *

a

Who autographed Roland Hurst’s
cast above the knee? Ask Roland
janont the book that his team-mates
sent him—‘Fun in Bed.”

1 * *

Dibby has an H. S. complex. With
which one did she see “The Tale of
Two Cities” and who went by himself Saturday night?

* * *

And then there is prominent law
graduate who tried to tell a sorority
of girls how to talk. Did you aca your end, Chuck?

DAL REVIEW—

(Continued from Page One)
H. E. Mahon, D. MacGillivry, L.L.D.

son, K.C., J. S. Roper, K.C., C. J.
Burchell, K.C., Hector MacInnes,
K.C., Dr. A. S. MacKenzie, Dr. Melville Cumming, Senator W. H. Dennis, J. W. Godfrey.

Many distinguished personages
have graced the Editorial Board. The
roll of Honour is as follows: Sir
Joseph Chisholm, Chief Justice, Dr.
A. S. MacKenzie, Dr. H. L. Stewart,
His Honor, Judge Patterson, Rev.
Principal Dr. MacKinnon, Dr. Fraser
Harris, Dr. D. A. MacRae, W. E.
MacLellan, Dr. Eliza Ritchie, Dr. H.
F. Munro, Rev. Canon Vroom, Dr. A.
H. Moore, J. E. Read, K.C., Dr. H.
A. Kent, Sydney E. Smith, K.C., Dr.
Carleton Stanley, Prof. C. L. Bennett,
M.A., Dr. E. W. Nichols, Dr. A. K.
Griffin, Dr. E. G. Young, Dr. BurnsMartin, D. C. Harvey, M.A. Dr.
George H. Henderson, Dr. D. Pelluet,

Dr. A. S. Mackenzie was the first
chairman of the Board, and he was
succeeded by Dr. Carleton Stanley
who still holds that office. Dr. MacKenzie now being the Vice-President
of the Board of Directors.

The work of all those connected
with this organization has been entirely voluntary, and if it had not
been for the very low cost of management and voluntary = services
given the financial reports of the
Company could not have shown the
reserves which it now has. In fact
if the services received had been fully
paid for there would be no Dalhousie
| Review.

‘THE VISITOR—

(Continued from Page Two)
just going past her door when I
heard the scream and I came right
in. There was no one here. I looked
in the kitchen and it was empty. It
looked as if she had just washed the
dishes, the table she had just wiped
was still damp. I came in here and
saw that she was dead, then I called
you.” The officer told the little
woman to go. He went to the telephone and called the inspector, “Say
send a couple of dicks out here...
it’s a damn funny business.”

There were no signs of violence,
nor did the postmortem, later, show
any. It ended ...a woman died.

 

ee
Dennen EEE UEEEEEE EEE

We wonder if Betty and Ritchie |

| named G. G. McGreer

— ee EEEEEEEEEEEEET
a

(Continued from Page One)

upbringings in Grand Anse and his
political career in Saskatchewan was
leader of the Opposition. A student
by the name of Christie whose where
abouts I do not know was Sergeantat-arms. The topics for discussion
were the establishment of a Canadian Navy and Reciprocity, both very
vital matters in the life of Canada
at that moment. The debate was
long and involved and the smoke rose
higher and higher. Many a future
political reputation was made that
night, and little did the highly intelligent electorate of Canada realize
that in this forum, future cabinet
|ministers were practising their arts
and becoming accustomed to the
smoke of battle. Here where the
giants of the past had wasted their
Sweetness on the desert air, the
giants of the future were baying
|forth to high heaven. In the midst
‘of the battle and when the atmos!phere was the greyest and thickest
the dear old Dean put his head in the
door and remarked, “Gentlemen, I
perceive you are not smoking”’.
Amid the cheers of the members he
shut the door and silently stole
away.

In my report of that meeting I

western bull of the pamphas” which
brought down his condemnation on
me at a later date when we had a
“spiritual” revival at the old Florence Hotel on the Bedford Road. I
left my justification to time, weighing then about 120 lbs.

Suffice it to say that the Mock
Parliament is one of the oldest institutions of the Law School. The
men it has produced and its record
show it to be well worth while. A
history of its doings is a history of

 

 

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

Lancet

   
   

“the wild!/ ®

CIGARETTES,

 

the Law School.
and Prosper.

Long May it Live

 

 

 

The Greatest

Selling Event
Of The Year

A Final Clearance of Winter Sport Goods, balances of Xmas lines and odds and ends from
regular stock, all clearing at One Dollar Each.

 

SPORTING
GOODS

Boys’ Skates and Boots,
6 ft. Skis, Sweater and
Stocking Sets, Boys’ Hockey Gloves, Ski Slacks, Ski
Jackets, Hockey Shin Pads,

Elbow Pads, etc.,
BOG sd ake oe 5am ey 1 .00
END TABLES
Unpainted Solid Birch Tables

with book trough

shelf below, each.. 1.00
Electric Hot Plates
Enamelled finished, guaranteed element, 1 burner hot

lates. Reg. 1.85, f
| plates. Reg 3 * 1.00

 

LAMPS

Table Lamps, Bed Lights and
Desk Lamps. Some slightly

soiled, each........ 1 00

TUMBLERS

Tall High Ball Glasses and
Decorated Table Tumblers.

Regular 15¢ each. 1 00

Twelve £68 s< oi. 44

BOOK STANDS

Tall narrow types and lower
styles with larger shelves.

Unpainted, each.... 1 00
TOYS

Dolls, Teddy Bears, Games,
Chemistry Sets, Trucks, Me
chanical Toys, ete. 1 00

Regular to 5.50, for

 

GIFTS

In Cut Glass, China, and English Pottery. Consisting of
Sandwich Sets, Fancy China Gift pieces, Vases, Biscuit

Jars, Cut Glass Cake Plates, ete., ete.
Values to 8.50; for... .<s6ss

aelere.d 6.9) ao 0} of 88 a 8 €/é

1.00

 

Halifax Hardware & Paint Co.,

LIMITED

397 Barrington Street

B-8454

 

 

.

 

 

 

FORMAL
Couple . 1.50
Single 1.00

 

QUNULUUANUUL NLA ULNOOUUAULO LALA UAHA

 

 

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

«JUNIOR PROM>

JERRY NAUGLER’S

ORCHESTRA

 

 

 

UINSUUAULNULNLNSONSOUNLQUUNULQOLOULUULA UU

FRIDAY
MARCH 6th

3: BM.

 
  

 

 

 

sew IN DOUBLE WIN

—tette by a 36—29 score.

‘contest at Sackville the previous

 

 

IORS DISPLAY FINE

 

 

In the most uninteresting game to
date in the Senior circuit, the Dalover Mt. Allison last Saturday even-|housie Tigers overwhelmed Acadia
ing at the Studley gymnasium, in| University hoopsters by a 28—14
one of the best games seen here this! seore on Thursday, Feb. 20 at the
year, the Stirling-coached team de-| Studley gymnasium, to take possesfeating the Garnet and Gold quin-| sion of second place in the league

standing, half a game behind the
pace-setting Wanderers.

The first period was featured by
some nice combination and shooting
on the part of the Crease brothers,
who accounted for 10 points, with
Mit Musgrave adding two more, to
make it an even dozen without a return from the Osborne-coached quintette. Holgate opened the scoring
for the Axemen with a field goal
from under the basket and a penalty
awarded when he was fouled in
shooting. Doug Crease and Lockhart scored both ends of a double
foul, and Charlton registered Acadia’s second basket on a nice effort.
| Play began to get rough and the
players seemed on the verge of a

A powerful finish by the Dal-|
housie Tigers gave them a victory,

 

This was the second of the annual
home and home exhibition games between the rival universities, with the
Tigers winning both for the second
year in a row, having overcome a
big Mt. A. lead in the closing minutes of the game to win the first

Saturday.

Dalhousie opened the scoring when
“Rusty” Baird, red-headed intermediate centre, registered from close in,
but Mt. A. came right back and
opened up a 7—2 lead, which Dal
gradually cut down until the Tigers
again were ahead, 12—11. But
again the Mounties forged ahead
and at the halfway mark led, 17—16. |
This first period was featured by

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sports on Parade |

Energy was not wasted in the week of major sports. Dal-|
housie Tigers clawed their way through the Acadia five and_|
Mount Allison’s squad to add more victories to their credit. |
Acadia was disposed of in a listless and unexciting fashion. |
The Creases left a memorable mark in the score; they chalked
up 18 points between them against their old alma mater.

Not one play was executed in the Mount “A.” tussie. Slipshod ball-handling and lifeless charging saw Dal one point behind, three minutes before the final whistle. Teddy Crease was
the factor in this game, more or less alone, that put Dalhousie
seven points ahead at the close of the game, scuring five out
of the eight points.

 

* aK * BS

The intermediates continued in their sweep of victories.
st. Mary’ S was repaid in full for the terrific beating given us
earlier in the season. At the end of the first half St. Mary’ s |
was apparently deluged with baskets, but in a saintly fighting
manner she suffered defeat by a mere ten points.

K 7

Freshmen triumphed in a surprise over Medicine. These
plucky Freshmen deserve three yells for possessing’ a never-die
spirit. They play a haggard game—hbut results tell the tale.
They are even cocky in interfaculty hockey. Woe to us, “ye!
upperclassmen’’, if Freshmen add to their football laurels, and |

haughtily throw their chests before our subservient eyes.
rR 7 °K 2K

*

 

The matter of referees has not ‘bese taken lightly, evidently. When Acadia meets the Wanderers at the iy “3 78

isn’t it up there where you have to sock a man plenty hard beisn’t it up then where you have to sock a man plenty hard be
free-for-all, but Referee Mandalstam)| fore a foul is called. The Acadia-Wanderers game should proquickly warned both teams, and un-| vide plenty excitement.

fortunately for the spectators it
Tiger Cubs Win

some nice shooting on the part of

Owen, lanky Mt. Allison centre, who

scored 10 of his team’s 17 points.
For most of the last 20 minutes

 

came to nothing. Holgate and McIntosh registered free throws as the
period ended, with the Tigers on the}

 

tinued to be the sparkplug of the
Dalhousie offensive, scoring 23 points |

long end of a 16—7 score.
Doug Crease carried the burden of

 

 

the play was pretty even, the Mounties using their “kid” line and having a slight advantage. As the game
drew near its end, with by four minutes of play remaining, Mt. Allison
led, 29—-26. Then the Tigers began
to force the pace and scored 10
points, on baskets by Ted Crease,
Mit Musgrave, and Donnie MaciIntosh, without a reply from the visitors, to win by a 7 point margin.

The game, though fast and exciting, was marred by the poor shooting of the Tigers, who had many
more scoring chances than they
made good, and also by their customary poor foul shooting the Mt.
A. team being far ahead of them in
this department. But although the
Dal team outplayed and outscored
them, the Lister-coached quintette
showed themselves to be very adept
ball-handlers, and only the air-tight
defence of the Tigers kept the score
down. Ted Crease, Mit Musgrave,
and Donnie MacIntosh were outstanding for the Tigers, while Owen
and Crawford were the pick of the
tee ahah. The lineups:—

Mt. Allison — Brodie 4, Black 2,
Mosher, Johnston 2, Owen 10, Stoney
2, Crawford 7, Veinot, Stoneman 1,
10 for OF Stone 1.

Dalhousie—D. Crease, Shainhouse

ide ots TW oes
Green 2, Baird 4, MacIntosh 6, Mus
grave 10, MacLeod. °

   

 

THREE DAYS

   

Last Chance

If the following students will have their photographs
taken within the next three days their photograph will
be accepted for publication in the Year Book.

MEDICINE

Robert Frederick Dove
Donald Harper Archibald
George Darrell Donaldson
Carlos Anival Dominquez
George Gordon Hatfield
Perry Marsters Sachs

ENGINEERING
Stanley Lawrence Waugh
| Walter Bennett Wood

F ARTS

Pgs John Rogers Carroll
2 Isobel Jean Fraser

 

ee William Pitfield McIntyre

F William Harvey Pipe

a3 SCIENCE

i Archibald Blackman

pss Joseph Preston Clark

ee Bernice Joan Herzenberg
a Lloyd Elliot MacHattie

lal as: Carl Harris Lafeen

Py < For any information please call Merle Purtill. B-2148.
—— —

ce ee seas, =, 4, '

ym yk - ve mee . a
* . A po , t

| en A ee oe ~

ly a aml erat tla bag Sm ©

—— ;

 

mee Pm te ee ee ee ae prema hypillitingbaes

From St. Mary’s

The Dalhousie Cubs won their
second game in the Intermediate
League when they gained a 49—39
verdict over St. Mary’s College on
Thursday, Feb. 20, at the Studley
gymnasium. The Cubs jumped into
the lead soon after the opening
whistle, and during the first period
played their best ball of the year.
The visitors seemed lost on the big
floor and wwere defensively very
weak, while the Dal quintette were !
checking closely and breaking fast.
The Cubs, led by Baird and Stewart, |
soon ran up a big lead and at the |
interval were ahead, 34—15.

On the resumption of play, the
Windsor Street quintette began a
steady whitling of their 19 point
deficit and almost staged a great
comeback. With only three minutes
of play remaining, they were trailing |
by a scant 6 points, but their chances |
of victory went glimmering when
“Rusty” Baird scored two baskets in
quick succession, to give the home|
team a 49—389 victory.

Bob Baird, red-headed centre, con
 

 

 

the Dal attack in this period and
scored 9 of the Tigers’ 16 points.
Acadia, who were the dark horses
in the league, were playing a wellorganized defensive system, but had
just as disorganized an offence. The
Tigers, though below their usual
form, were steady in both departments. They have changed their offensive system, however, and in contrast with the fast breaks of the
Axemen up the floor, they played a
slow-breaking game, the opposite of
their old style.

The second half was but a repetition of the first, with neither team
playing up to their usual standard. |
The visitors were very poor in their |
shooting, and although they had al- |
most as niany scoring chances a
the Tigers it was not until midway
through the period that they found
the hoop again, Ellsworth registering from under the basket and scoring the fourth and last basket sil
the Axemen a minute later.

 

 

shooting of these free awards was
the worst seen here this year, with |
the Tigers making 5 out of 18 at- |

controlled the play throughout and
was never in any danger, easily
breaking up the Acadia attack and
outscoring them in both periods, to
win by a 14 point Margin.

Holgate, Lockhart, and Ellsworth
were the pick of the visitors, while
the Crease brothers and Captain Mit
Musgrave were outstanding for the
defending champions.

The lineups:—

Acadia—Lockhart 1, DeWitt, Ideson, Cann, Ellsworth 6, Charlton 3,
,Holgate 4, Ross, Haley.

Dalhousie—T. Crease 7, D. Crease
11, Shainhouse 1, Baird, Green 2,
Musgrave 4, Tokosh, Miller, Mac.
Leod, MacIntosh 3.

| period.

tempts, and Acadia 6 out of 24. =| ee De |

to be high scorer of the game
Farrel with 15 and Bowser with 9
points were the pick of the losers.
This win puts the Cubs in third
position in the League, tied with St.
Mary’s. To break this tie, the Cubs
must defeat the Y. M. C, A., newlycrowned League champions, when
they meet on March 5th at Studley.

           

. St. Mary’s—Ney 4, Stevenson, Farrel 15, Foley, Hanley 10, Bowser 9,
Dyer, Grant 1, Foohey.

Dalhousie—Lyall 6, L. Stewart, E.
| Stewart 13, Murphy, Baird 23, Saunderson ee DuBilier 2, Dean 3.

 

‘Law Wins He Hockey

And Softball

Law won their section in the Interfaculty Hockey League on Wednesday, Feb. 19, when they won a
6—1 verdict from Arts and Science
in the best game of the current circuit. “The game was wide open hockey all the way through and was
featured. by some spectacular goaltending by Carlos in the Arts nets.

Law, who won by default from
Dentistry the previous evening when
their opponents failed to show up,

took the lead soon after the opening

whistle, when Art Smith beat Carlos
unassisted with the only score of the
Ed Cragg evened the count
early in the second session when he
scored on Stewart’s assist. Before
the close of this period the lawyers,
pressing hard and aided by a couple
of bad breaks for the Artsmen,
tled home 5 goals to lead 6—1, Godwin scoring twice and Smith, Hinchey and MacSween once each.
Arts and Science forced the play
in the final period, but were unable
to beat Gunter in the Law nets. The

Lawyers had the game well in hand|
throughout and practically skated)

the Artsmen off their feet. Connor
and Smith carried the burden of the
Law attack, while Cragg and Carlos

|were outstanding for the losers.

Law scored an upset in the Interfaculty Softball League when they

Referees Dunlop and Mandalstam | defeated the highly favored Dencontinued to hand out fouls and Hol-| tistry team on Friday, Feb. 21, by
gate and Green were banished. The|the one-sided score of 13 to 3. This |

 

| Birks Diamonds-- Diamonds-
Flawless, perfectly cut,
sparkling diamonds
have for years spread
the fame of Birks.

Today the same breath
taking beauty is featured in new mountings — at surpr ising ly
moderate prices, too.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

rat- |

 

|

 

 

|

pe

 

      
  
   

NOTICE
The Girls’ Basketball Team will
play the Acadia squad at the Dal
housie Gymnasium tomorrow at
12.15 noon.

 

 

stretches the winning streak of the

Lawyers to three in a row after their

initial setback by Medicine, and puts
them in second position in the league,
with the Doctors, who have yet to
lose a game, in first place. Ken
Cougle was on the mound for the
Dentists and shaded his rival, Ferguson, who did the hurling for Law,
but ragged support, especially in the

third and eighth innings, in each of |
5 runs|
across the plate, proved his undoing. |

which the Lawyers pushed

Ferguson pitched his usual steady

game, getting into few tight spots

and receiving good support from his

mates when he did, so that after the
third inning the issue was never in
doubt,

DeWolfe, Cook and Ferguson were |
(outstanding for Law,

while
picke

Cougle

and Houle were the of the

‘losers.

The second game of the evening, |
between Freshmen and Pine Hill,
was forfeited to the Theologs when

the Frosh could not field a team.
The lineups:—
Dentistry — Liebowitz, Figman,

Houle, Cougle, Diamond, Heflick,
Messinger, Friedlander, Leon.

Law—Cook, Gunter, Godwin, DeWolfe, Ferguson, Bentley, MacSween, Smith, Hinchey.

Friday, February 28, 1936

-Hoopsters Defeat Mt. A. and Axemen

Frosh Down Meds
In Hoop Title

With another of their spectacular
finishes the Freshmen snatched victory from defeat when, with five
minutes to go, they overhauled a 7
point Medicine lead and scored the
winning basket with but three second
of play remaining. The game was
rough and fairly even throughout,
with the yearling quintette on the
long end of a 9—8 score at the halfway mark.

Medicine took the lead immediate‘ly on the resumption of play and

seemed to have the game well in
hand when, with three-quarters of
the period gone, they were ahead,

    

3. Then the Frosh began to
|press hard and two baskets by
Logie and one by Hart brought them

to within a single point of the doc
tors. Then, with less than a minute
to go, Coach Musgrave sent in
|Piercey with instructions to shoot
whenever he got the ball. The wis
 

dom of this move was seen a moment
later when Piercey scored the win‘ning basket, sinking a beautiful shot
|from far out on the wing, to give
‘the Frosh a 20-19 verdict.

| This was the second game of its

| kind within a week that the Fresh
 

‘men have won, Kirshner having
| sdoned a last second basket against
Arts and Science, to give them a
| 26—24 victory the week before.
| Lebowitz and Carl Stoddard, with
| 10 and 6 points, led the attack of

| the losers, while Johnson
‘Kenzie were the

and Macpick of the Frosh.

 

 

TODAY, SAT., MON.

ANYTHING
GOES

with
BING CROSBY
ETHEL MERMAN
CHARLES RUGGLES

The Show that ran for One
Jubilant Year on Broadway!

 

 

    

PLAIN OR §
CORK TIP

 

CASINO

Starting Saturday
February 29th

TRANS
ATLANTIC
TUNNEL

(New

 

York to London)
with
RICHARD DIX
an ALL STAR CAST
Special Portrayals by
GEORGE ARLISS

WALTER HUSTON

COSTLIER MILDER TOBACCOS
Buy your Crested BRITISH CONSOLS at the Tuck Shop

 

EATON’S

 

Eatonia

We’ve kept an eye on both
comfort and style in making
the EATONIA shirt.

Crisp, smartly fitting collars
are always cut in the new
styles, and are made to keep
their shape.

Full ample cutting of the
sleeves and shoulders gives ,
greater comfort and makes |
for longer wear by reducing
strain.

Made of high-count “Rigmel”’
(pre-shrunk) English cotton
broadcloth. Splendid choice
of patterns, colours and plain
white. Sizes 14 to 17%.

EATONIA yalue, each

2.00

 

*T.

MARIT

 

Thrifty Comfort in

SHIRTS

Eaton’s Main Floor

EATON

LIMITED

 
