 

Lets

VOL. LXVIi}

  
 

  
   
   
     
             

The new men are all outstanding
—_ in their reputations as learned men
se ey and teachers of students, and will
ie hog be notable additions to Dal’s already
_—— fine staff of professors and officials.
ES aie Foremost among the changes this
i: 8 3 ‘year is one which will bring sad
= i memories to every Dalhousie stuFe St dent, and more particularly those
bg of the Dental Faculty, caused as it

    
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   

homes 9 by the recent death, on May 21st,
fo ae weet Dean G. Kerr Thomson, wellie beloved dean of the Faculty of DenFE ___ tistry, who was honored in his profession by being termed “foremost
internationally among his fellow
ental experts”. He was a lovable
an, a capable teacher, and had
been ill for but two months, when
_¢eomplications set in which resulted
in his death. He was past president
he Canadian Dental Association

 

    
 

th

:
-*

 

=

  

perpetuating the high
education which has been the custom at the Dental School since its
beginning as a faculty of Dalhousie.

Dr. W. W. Woodbury, now dean
of Dentistry, is one of a family of
Haligonians which needs no introduction to Dalhousie. Graduating
from the Halifax County Academy,
he received his B.Sc. at Dalhousie

University.

Going to the Philadelphia Dental
College, he received his early training which has stood him in such
great stead since his appointment as
demonstrator at Dalhousie. He was
one of the first demonstrators in the
new school, and became professor of
orthodontia in 1910. Quoted as an
expert on affairs concerning the
teeth, Dean Woodbury is one of the
notable additions to the Dalhousie
staff this year. His appointment
went into effect May 29.

Dalhousie’s newest professor, who

~ comes from England, where he was a
headmaster and a fellowship winner,
is Prof. B. A. Fletcher, M.A., B.Sc.,
who is now living at 13 Oakland
Road, and who is the new head of
the Department of Education. A
professor who will go far in bringing back college spirit is Prof.
Fletcher, has been with the rugby
teams and is expected to take a
great interest in the sporting end

| of the college as well as the educational end.

The new departmental head was
the winner of the Kahn Fellowship
in Education in 1932, entitling him
to a round-the-world trip. This is
his first time in Nova Scotia and he
admires it. He received his M.A. in
education and his B.Se. in Physics

from University College, London,
and Sydney College, Cambridge, and
his latest position before coming to
Halifax was as principal of the
High School at Chippenham, Wiltr shire, England. He is married and
has two charming children.
Prof. R. H. MacKay, in the PolitiI cal Science Department, has return
(Continued on Page Three)

    

Freshmen Professors

Welcomed At College

Dalhousie this year welcomes a number of new faces and
_ instructors to her midst, and with a number of them being

 

 

  
  
 
 

_ veritable “freshmen”, as far as this Haligonian University is

Debating Society
Presents Plans

 

One feature of student activity at
Dalhousie which will strike the members of Class ’39 is the fact that all
debating activities are conducted
solely by the students under the
auspices of Sodales Debating Society. Because of the fact that the
University has no department where
interested students may acquire the
fundamentals of public speaking, the
Executive of Sodales Debating Society have felt it useful to present
something in the nature of a resume
of the activities of the Society during the coming year,

| For the past few *<ar's, the

i to provide two
H

0 grant to t
raining a

  

eme followed was

d| These provided the sole avenue of

training in public speaking, and for
these, the cost was approximately
four hundred dollars.

Believing that there was an unfair
distribution of the benefits of debating, and that if more debates were
provided, the students would have a
greater return for their money, and
at the same time, a wider range of
personal benefits, the present Exeecutive have made arrangements
whereby every student in the University, irrespective of experience,
ability or sex, may take part in as
many debates as he or she may desire.

To this end the following arrangements have been made:

The Intercollegiate Debating
League has been extended to provide three debates instead of one;
a City League has been organized
which will provide seven debates; a
new series of radio debates open to
Maritime Universities has been arranged; the Bennett Shield Debates,
a series between the Arts and
Science students will be continued; a
greater number of inter-class debates will be held; the Canadian
Radio Commisssion Series will be
continued; the N.F.C.U.S. series will
be followed. Down-town debates
have been arranged, whereby two
students will debate with representatives of different societies; a series
between different Young Peoples’
Societies in the City Churches will
be arranged; and invitations have
been extended to Upper Canada and
Eastern United States colleges to
visit Dalhousie. Of these, nine will
be major debates counting towards a

(Continued on Page Two)

 

 
   

  

Notice

President Stanley will speak
briefly to members of the University at noon, Thursday, Oct.
3rd, in the Gymnasium. The ad‘dress will be more especially to
students, of all Faculties.

:

 
       
 
    

Nt

 

“es _eaciy year,| f.

  

 

The Class of *39

With a furtive, hunted glance;

Or appearing in a trance;

Downy schoolboy countenance;
Dowdy schoolgirl elegance;

Afoot or in the family car,

Some, of course, by C. N. R.,
Freshies come from near and far—
Where is He, The Registrar?”

Fierce he seems as they advance,
Trembling in their skirt or pants.
Little use of arrogance,
Suppliance or petulance:

“There must not be dissonance!”
He dictates—and they finance.

Meetings, talks, they must attend;

Told they never should offend

Eye of Profs by wearing sweaters.
Never visit Water Street;

How to study, what to eat:

They are little kids no longer—

Power of will, then, must be stronger,
Since they’re far from home and fetters,

Council members bluff,

Editors display the Rag,
Freshmen jaws obliquely sag
When they hear all this is theirs.
Thirty dollars was the fee,

And such generosity

From the University

Should live long in memory.

(It will, but now it merely scares.)

Frat men shake the head and sigh

As the verdant horde goes by,

View the girls with jaundiced eye.

“No material!” they cry,

Yet they glean a few for rushing.
Sterns are paddled, vows are taken;
Shoulders slapped and hands are shaken
While the victims still are quakin’

And their pocket-books are blushing.

Sisters tremble in their shoes
Lest the rushee should refuse.
If she doesn’t—ask for dues.
Oh, my dear, yes!—in advance!
Sisters new are taught to be
One with cultured company:
How to serve delightful tea,
Acquiesce with dignity

When invited to a dance.

Pious Theolog (Hell-bent

Till his ordination);
Embryonic Lawyer, Dent,
Med, Arts, Comm., and Science
Running loose about we see,
Heads high in defiance.

39 is graduation—

(Continued on Page Four)

aa

Neen eee nee nn nn nn nnn ne ee ee een ieenientiindnenasinesiligessndinean:

“WHERE IS HE, THE REGISTRAR?” |President Stanley,

Council

 
    

  

Greet ‘‘Frosh’’

On behalf of Dalhousie University, I take this opportunity
of bidding newcomers to our midst a hearty welcome. From
the time of your arrival you are of us. To you belong all the
rights and privileges enjoyed by members of this old University—that, indeed, goes without saying. But in another and
deeper sense you are part of Dalhousie: its traditions of sound

 

Sophomores Add

Their Salutations

 

To the members of Class 739, the
Sophomores extend a sincere welcome. It is not the artificial welcome of a group who in their hearts
entertain a sort of rivalry, but rather
that of a class who are deeply concerned not only with the success of
the first few weeks of your life,
which will in no small way determine the prosperity of your whole
college career, but with the many
pleasant hours you will spend around
the “lande of Dal” during your sojourn here.

 

scolarship, devotion to science, literature and good-citizenship are yours
to carry on; the continuance of our
success in these high matters depends indeed partly upon you. We
welcome the added strength which
We are sure you bring to us. From
now on we go forward together as
loyal partners in a great cause.
Personally I should like to express
the hope that you will enjoy the best
of health during your entire course.
To that end intellectual interests as
well as attention to outdoor exercise
will stead you well. The Book Club,
the Debating Society, the Dalhousie
Gazette, the Dalhousie Review, the
musical organizations, are worthy of
your consideration, and your participation in them can contribute to

And so it was’ with this concep- | their SUCCESS.

tion of an initiation strongly borne
in mind that Class ’88 decided upon
a Freshman Week program. We hope
that the object underlying this pro
gram, to make each and every mem-'

With every good wish,

CARLETON STANLEY,
< President.

 

On behalf of the Students’ Coun
ber of the Freshman Class feel per-| cil I extend a welcome to you and
fectly at home from the very outset,|all other newcomers to our student
will in some small measure be real- body. My only hope is that you will
ized. The ancient way of judging| enjoy your years at Dalhousie and
the success of an initiation program|in the future be able to look back
was reckoned in proportion to the| with pleasure upon them.

amount of humiliation the “green

You may feel lost here for some

Freshmen” were subjected to and weeks, but as time passes you will
to the amount of physical harm that! soon learn the ropes and it is then
could be endured by them. This pro-| that you will fall in one of two
cedure has long since been recog-| classes that appear to exist in every
nized as inconsistent with the true | student body. The one, that take in
aims that a Sophomore Class should | terest in their work and the social
entertain, but only in the last few | activities of the college, who are ayears has something been really ways ready to lend a hand where
done about it. And so now, one’s needed, who will stay with their
advent to college is something to an- losing team, help along the Glee
ticipate — not to dread—an event! Club, Sodales, the Gazette or any
which will stand out in your lives|other society in which they are inas something worth while remem-|terested; and there is the other

bering.

classes composed of the ones that are

In a word, the modern aim of an dragged along, who cannot be bothinitiation program is to have the|ered to see a football game or do
Freshman become friends of the rest sufficient work to pass an exam, and
of the student body in the quickest | who attempt to cover their failings
way possible, to entertain them, to by assuming the sophisticated, cyni
acquaint them with all the good
things their college has to offer
them, and, not the least important,
to assure them that they are welcome, that they are not being looked
down upon as green and insignifi
eal air of the worldly man. For you
own sake belong to that first group,
for the more you put into your college the much more will you take
out, and the only way to really enjoy
our activities is by being part of

cant, but rather that their college is| them yourselves.

glad and proud to have them, and

When I sit and listen to some of

hope their stay will be a pleasant | the yarns told by our alumni and the

one,

older men of the college concerning

Some consideration of the prime | their stay at the university, I won
object for which you have come. to|der wh
college must not be overlooked. In the past few years.

at has happened here during
Most certainly

an effort to aid you in the more|the Esprit de Corps has disappeared
Serious aspect of your college life, aj to a great extent from our midst

group of lectures has been arranged.

Why not make it the work of your

To you, Freshman, the value of | class to put us older ones to shame
these lectures may not at first be by placing your shoulders behind the
realized, rather they may even be| machinery of our societies and makregarded as penance, but as the ing the rusty wheels to turn once

(Continued on Page Four)

 

 

 

Positions Open

There are still some positions
open on the Gazette Staff. Those
interested are asked to get in
touch with the Editors as soon
as possible. It is necessary that
the staff be completed before
next issue.

 

 

more ?

Should you need advice or help, remember that we have all passed
through the freshman stage, and in
your representative on the council
you have a man who, I am sure, will

do all in his power to forward your
interests,

And now to those of you who have

read this far, congratulations on
your stamina, welcome again.

HAROLD E. TAYLOR,
Pres. Dalhousie Students’ Council.

 

 
      
    
   
     
     
 
    

EDITORIAL STAFF

eaaeORs J,, C, PINK

B, 2442
News Editor
PHIL SARGEANT

  

ss

fu

   
  
  

 

  

i. Society . Editor , Sports oe
— ~ RTILL TED CRE
ee dB Staff Artist B. 5737
C. F. BENTLEY
| —s Business Manager Assistant
| ‘J. R. H. SUTHERLAND DOUGLAS CREASE
a) OUR UC B. 5737

|

ce | Sa

ie ‘THE PREFACE

a - With this issue of the Gazette,

a - To ask your forbearance for our first attempts, is perhaps, a

~ yecommendation to which we should yield, but we have elected
to stand on our feet from the first. No extra days or weeks will

help us materially in adopting our editorial policy, and it is only

fair that we should inform our readers at the outset just what

we intend to do.

e Gazette of the past year made an attempt through its
Oa at editorial columns to broaden the students interests in
world affairs and to encourage them to look beyond their campus. Lack of co-operation however, on the part of the students
Gn both interest and activity made this almost impossible. We
are going to attempt to make a further attempt to continue
that policy in the fond hope that we can arouse co-operation

once again.

Our chief purpose should be to follow the chief events on
the campus and in the world at large in such a way that we contribute to the enlightment of the graduate and undergraduate.
| The Gazette has as its fundamental purpose informing the col___ Jege student and making him think intelligently on matters
brought to his attention. Our problem is one not only of em- phasis and discrimination of news but also one of emphasising
and discriminating different types of artcles and columns that
we feel would interest the average professional and non-professional student. The Gazette belongs not only to Studley, but
to Law, Medicine, Dentistry and all the faculties. We shall endeavour to make it of interest to all.

must remember also that Dalhousie boasts of an

Association and a large staff of professors. We must

terest both of these groups in the Gazette, and
les of interest to them and by them.

"Po treat the campus affairs with fairness, frankness and
precision, and to support the best interests of the university as
i cwe see them, is at best a vague promise, and its amplification
swould require so much detail as to make it unprintable. How“ever, we will treat and expect to be treated fairly and squarely
iby all. We will welcome constructive criticism, and ask any
‘student to submit his or her opinions of any of our news or
-_ Ag the movement for peace is one in which we feel every
student should express himself we shall make every effort to
receive student opinion in this respect. With clouds of war
threatening to burst upon us at any time it is the college students’ duty in any Canadian University to express his view of
the stand that Canada should take in the matter.

_ To this year’s staff, the retiring editors and associates have
left a definite obligation for progressive and liberal action. We
respect their ideal and although we differ somewhat we intend
to continue and expand many of them.

This is the preface. The book will be found in the Gazette
during the coming year.

eee

 
  
  
 

a new staff takes charge.

r-A cr
*

Se
Ig
ee ie ‘
agi i

  
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
     
    
  

”
he?

Py F.
yr fe

ey | =
AEP kn
S24 
7 cee
a

  
 
  
 
 
         

‘i, ee

Ao 4 is J

Ae Ieteiny

s eee
re! asa i
wt re

We
F 7

  

n 3

   
 
 

   
  

 
 

a

    

a

     
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
   

  

f- Am Soni
a i = } we
eo y

mae)

aa
—_

= ww

 

0 THE FROSH

Registration is over, once more Dalhousie welcomes another
group of newcomers, to its illustrious fold. You will hear many
speeches, you will be given slips of paper to fill in to give you
can idea of what outside activities are open for your interest. It
is on this point that we desire to stress a few points, which may
ibe of some help to you upon your advent to this college. Remember, Dalhousie offers more than a mere study of books, and
a degree, but this not on the curriculum. It is this phase of life
.at Dalhousie which will prove more profitable to you than anything else you acquire at Dalhousie. But to say that the study

side should be entirely neglected is wrong. The good student is
not the one who makes the highest marks, but the student who
_ does well in his studies, and does take an interest in at least one
of Dalhousie outside activities, the student who can write for
the Gazette, take part in a Glee Club Show, participate in some
phase of athletics, and yet do well in his studies is the good student. Many people may disagree with this, they may feel we
come to a university for an education and should strive to lead
our classes. This is well and good for the student who has a job
waiting for him when he graduates, but the majority of students must begin to find some sort of employment when he
graduates, and a bare degree will not be sufficient reference to
get a job. You must learn to meet people, size them up, know
what you want and numerous other things—that are not taught
at the university. You can learn it here but to do so depends
on yourself, you must go out and get it, and there is not a bet_ ter way of doing so than by taking part in the other things
_ «ther than studies that Dalhousie offers you.

ars The Gazette extends a hearty welcome to Dalhousie’s new_ «omers and the staff offers its co-operation to any student both
__ mew and old who shows any initiative whatsoever. Remember
_ this is your paper, its standard depends on the co-operation yo

is

 

DEAN G. K. THOMPSON - JUDGE B. RUSSELL

On May 2nd the Dental School of
Dalhousie University lost a staunch
supporter by the death of Dr. George
Kerr Thompson. Dr. Thompson was

one of a small group who, after
dreaming and planning for years,
succeeded in founding the school in
1908 as the Maritime Dental College.
The University which had housed it
and given it every encouragement
at length took it over in 1912 as the
Faculty of Dentistry. Dr. Thompson
served the School continuously in
various teaching capacities, and
finally succeeded the late Dr. F. W.
Ryan as its dean.

The Faculty of Law of Dalhousie
University owes to the late Hon.
Benjamin Russell an _ incalculable
debt of gratitude. The reality of
this debt is not to be found, merely
in the number of the years he served
the Law School as Professor, nor
in the quality of the lectures he
there delivered. For, great as was
that number, and high as was that
quality, they fail quite to explain his
unique influence upon the development of the Law School and of
Canada.

The distinctiveness of this influence was, I think, compounded
of two elements—the man and the
teacher. I do not mean, of course,
that it is ever possible to dissociate
the two; but rather that his human
and his professional qualities combined to produce an unforgettable
force, the effects of which continued
to animate his students long after
they had fled the academic halls.

Few graduates of the Law School
can deny that the very method of
their thinking was shaped by the
brilliant teacher, whose wealth of
knowledge, keenness of analysis,
thoroughness of research, openness
of mind and inciseness and clarity
of exposition, made every lecture a
memorable experience. He was, in
sober truth, a great teacher—worthy
to rank with Langdell and Ames, his
own heroes,

Similarly, his former students in
their hundreds unite in that regard
for a dynamic and whimsical personality, whose zestful interest in all
created beings, and whose generosity to youth has made the name
of “Bennie” a synonym of affection
and reverence in every province of
Canada. Whatever of utility and
reputation the Law School has attained is due in largest measure to
two men—Weldon and Russell—and
the greatest assurance which can be
| given for its future is that, though
silent in death, they continue to
speak to the teachers who have succeeded them.

DEAN V. C. MacDONALD.

To those who knew Dr. Thompson
best it was very evident that while
his interests were varied, his profession occupied the centre of his
thought. He was convinced that
Dentistry had a real contribution to
make toward the well-being of mankind, and he could always be relied
on to support any movement within
the profession that was calculated to
further its usefulness. Taking an
active interest in the Provincial
Dental Association and in the Provincial Dental Board of which he
was Secretary-Registrar for twentyfive years, he came to be known far
beyond the confines of his adopted
province. As Past President of both
the Canadian Dental Association and
the’ Dominion Dental Councill, his
professional contribution was Dominion-wide.

j——————— eee eee

A strong believer in the wisdom
of bringing up a child dentally in
the way he should go, he was a
pioneer in the movement for Preschool Clinics. He was not only
largely responsible for the establishment of this service in his home
city, but through various international contacts he came to be recognized as an active factor in its development elsewhere.

During the early days of the war
he was prominent in the establishment of the army dental service and
headed the Dental Corps in this
military district. He took an active
part in the American Association of
Dental Schools and in the International Association for Dental Research, being a frequent attendant
at the meetings of these organizations. The foregoing recital is not
intended to be exhaustive, but to
indicate the desire of Dr. Thompson
to make use of every possible channel
through which he could contribute
to the upbuilding of dentistry.

Dr. Thompson was born in Newcastle, New Brunswick. His first
interest was» pharmacy, which he
followed for some years. Afterwards he studied dentistry in Philadelphia, practicing first at Annapolis
Royal, later moving to Yarmouth,
and finally coming to Halifax. He
built up an extensive practice and
the loyalty of his patients attested
to his clinical skill.

Of an amiable disposition, he had
a large circle of friends and was
regarded by his fellow practitioners
with genuine affection. That this
feeling was by no means local was
impressed on me at the time of his
death. I happened to be in New
York attending a professional gathering and was struck by the genuine expressions of sorrow on the
part of a number of his American
confreres. Also -I have had occasion to review a rather varied and
extensive correspondence during the
past few months and to note the
evidence of the impact of a genial

 

personality and the friendly response
which it evoked.

The memory of his industry and
enthusiasm on behalf of his profession will long continue to be a
stimulus and an encouragement to
those of us who were privileged to
be associated with him.

DEAN W. W. WOODBURY.

 

Debating Society-- (Continued from Page One)

letter, the others to be a training
ground for the major teams.

To make this program effective,
the support of all students is necessary, from a financial as well as a
personal point of view. The pageantry will be stripped from the debates and each run with a minimum
of expense, but the interest of the
students will have to manifest itself
before money will be spent to provide an opportunity for the few to
benefit at the expense of the many.
And in welcoming the members of
Class ’89 to Dalhousie, the Executive feel that from them, the support necessary to conduct debating
in this University as it should be
conducted will be forthcoming, and
the arrangements made for student
activity in training in public speaking will receive the anticipated
support.

emma,
a

i
ec

 

Friday, September 27, 1935

SOMETHING TO

THINK ABOUT

by lowering the standard of admission, without providing commensurate facilities. reach of the Association’s policies is followed by exclusion from its “Approved Medical
Schools” list, a fate met this year
by the universities of West Virginia,
Georgia, and Mississippi.

 

A problem of the greatest importance and consequence confronts
every newcomer on the campus this
week. What does he or she plan to
study? The course you take this
and the following year will lay the
foundations for your future lives.
Give it plenty of consideration.

 

 

Steran Zweig has taken advantage
of the popularity he has gained by
“Marie Antoinette”. He has struck
again while the iron is still hot.
The new book is “Mary”, Queen of
Scotland and the Isles.

Rather ironical was the ban imposed by an American newspaper
upon a feature of the children’s
page, “Little Orphan Annie”, for
dissemination of political propaganda. For some weeks Little Annie disappeared, presumed orphaned,
to be replaced by wild-haired Reds,
friends of the “peepul” and rugged
individualists. The syndicate sponsoring the strip made haste to assure the complaint that the author,
Gray, had been reprimanded and had
already started a new series. Gray,
who would seem to be a colorful individual, has apparently solved the
problem by a substitution of the
Yellow Peril for the Red.

 

The killing of Huey Long demonstrates the dangers attendant upon
a tyrant. His death emphasizes the
consequences of a dictatorship. There
is little doubt that his national monument, which was expected to cause
considerable worry to Roosevelt in
the Federal elections of 1936, is
doomed, for it revolved entirely
about Long’s dominating personality.
Of more immediate import is the
question as to his successor in
Louisiana. Both the Long and the
Anti-Longs, except for a faction in
New Orleans, are disorganized. The
Long party is weakened by the loss
of its leader and by rivalry for his
position. If the aspirants to the
leadership can suppress their rivalry
until after the elections in January,
it is most improbable, with the
party’s powers of patronage and
fear, that it will be ousted.

 

At no time are the peculiar weaknesses of a bi-party system shown
than in time of crisis. Divisions of
opinion are then both more varied
and more acute. With many important problems to decide, a vote
for a particular party policy is arbitrarily a vote for them all and a
renunciation of the other party’s
complete platform. Third parties
necessarily spring up to meet the
need. As in Canada so in the United
States; not only are there several
minor parties, but a split has appeared in an old one, the Democrats.
This was caused by the allegedly
socialistic tendencies of Roosevelt’s
regime, which is therefore distasteful to many who adhere to the old
Democratic platform.

 

Strangers to the devious windings
and intricate subtlety of the legal
mind will wonder at the reasoning
which reconciles the sign on the
Law School wall prohibiting smoking, and the assent, to cigarette and
cigar smoking at least, implied in
the direction on the waste-basket
below that all butts are to be deposited there. Only a master mind
that can envisage a beer-garden
with sigc% of a beer-garden’s inconveniences, can hope to grapple with
such repugnancy. The failure of
lesser minds to successfully do so
has turned Mac into a very Autolycus —a picker-up of unconsidered
trifles. And all because of the filial
desire that the reasonable man might
feel at home.

Girls and

“Fellers”

Notice: Freshmen and
others will find The
Green Lantern a very
pleasant place for refreshments, candy and
pastry.

an,
—_—_—_

 

The American Medical Association,
a body which for thirty years has
fought to improve the quality of
doctors. graduated from American
and Canadian medical schools, bemoans the falling standards of depression years. It warns against the
practice of attempting to bolster decreasing revenues by increasing the
number of students enrolled, usually

The Green Lantern

SSS SSS?

 

 

 

 

Where the College Men Congregate

 

YOULL want to know just where a college man

should go to buy clothes of the right sort at
the right price...

For years we have catered to the students who
like and require good clothes at reasonable prices.
At this shop you will find the latest styles and
colors in coats — suits — hats — shirts — in
fact everything for the well dressed student.
Ask the Seniors—they’ll say ...

SHANE’S
MEN'S SHOP

THIRTY SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

Discount of Ten Per Cent to Students

 

 

 

 
    
    
   
   
    

ner 27, 1985

, Freshmen!

an you alumni readers!

*

. | To Pioperate
With Dal Gazette

Plans Are Issued For Coming Year.

Lis This is addressed to you first of all.
listen you Sophmores, you Juniors, and you Seniors! And
‘J | This concerns all of you.

Bigger and better Dalhousie days are in sight. A move
 

nent to stimulate interest in Dalhousie activties and to raise

  
    
  
    
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
    
  
 
  
  
    
   
  
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
 

“~~

~ The movement is an effort to build

__ everywhere, to link those Dalhou- sianms who have left the university
< ~~ with the students now attending the

The alumni are interested in the

an interest in the alumni the plan
has boundless possibilities.

‘The first step in the move is to
present, once a month, a special
- alumni section in the Dalhousie
_ “Gazette”. This will take the place
of the old Alumni News. These
~~ copies of the “Gazette” will go
a. around the world to old Dalhousians
ry _ everywhere, bearing to these for_-_—__— mer students tidings of just what is

going on at their university and
oe

ae
a

stimulating their interest in the
= _ Dalhousie of today as never before.
_ . The alumni section, however,

BP. will be designed to appeal not only
to alumni, but to students at pres
ent studying at Dalhousie.

ill
*

a
yo

tablished.

ry of the “Gazette” should be of more

Je eee. ,
a 4
as td, Ss
i

 co-operations between Dalhousians |‘

a -umns of this section, from time to|and untried.
will appear reports of steps|must have support.

activities to a new high is now under way and gathering
Freshmen entering the university this year are in
osition to enlist in this movement at the start and thus not
y build for themselves a more interesting university life
ring their stay at Dalhousie but contribute to some really
- worthwhile service for the good of their alma mater.

 

They recall alumni attending meetnigs of Sodales. They have
recollections of alumni working with
the Glee Club. There are even those
who recall the alumni as a definite
force in the rooting sections during

degree.

students. If the students will adopt |f°tball season.

All these memories conjure up
possibilities of what may be if the
present movement receives proper
support. And support is necessary,
because it is only by the wholehearted co-operation of the alumni
and the student body that anything
can come of the present plans.

Once again the new Dalhousians,
the class of 1939, are urged to take
a definite part in this movement.
Freshman officers will find officers
of the alumni more than willing to
co-operate with them in their activities, and the same thing applies
to the other classes.

Officers of university societies—

It is|and the Glee Club comes first to

_ hoped to develop a mutual interest mind—are advised to establish some
that long ago should have been es-|Comtact with the alumni executive

in an effort to strengthen the co
Because of the general movement operative bonds which <n do ae
‘which the alumni executive are al-|™much to make Dalhousie activities
p > ready discussing, this alumni section better than ever before.

Returning to the “Gazette” plan,

than ordinary interest. In the col-| the alumni section is something new

To be successful it
Students are

which the alumni are taking to co-| cordially invited, nay urged to offer

      
   
  

roe se.

eRe Sok de
Ni x tivities.

ae .

operate in furthering student ac-|contributions and suggestions. Alum
ni readers, too, are requested to

_~—~—)s' ‘The move to work with the/|forward suggestions as to just what
e” at “Gazette” is the first step. Andasthe|they want in these columns. And
_-—~—« “Gazette” is probably the most|those alumni who live elsewhere

et _ widely enjoyed of any student insti-| than in Nova Scotia are urgently re
:
e wy

 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

eee

are really prepared to do. something
Re ed ace Sy

2 in the project. ea
be 1 justly blamed for a certain in: te a. Their interest, although probae: ably keen so far as the individual
‘members was coricerned, has failed
to appear in any concrete form.

Older students remember when the
alumni did co-operate to a greater

 

tutio nm, it is evident that the alumni|quested to forward news items of
are rea ee ra ae Pier

the activities of Dalhousians whom
they know. This applies particu
late years the alumni have larly to activities of alumni societies

everywhere.

Travellers returning to Halifax
from summer jaunts here, there, and
everywhere report that Dalhousie’s
sons and daughters in other parts
of the world are hungry for news
of the university. The monthly

 

- F iT 'y

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   

FRESHMEN PROGRAM

All freshmen, freshettes and freshie sophs are required to attend the
following meetings:

FRIDAY, SEPT. 27—

10 a.m. Science Building, Chemistry Theatre, organization meeting
of Class ’389, at which you will be addressed by Dr. H. P.
Bell, M.S.C. (Dal), Ph.D. (Tor.); Fred Barton, president of
Sophomore Class; and your freshman representative on the
Council of Students, John Fisher.

4 p.m.—Alumnae tea at Shirreff Hall, where all registered women
students will welcome the freshettes.

8 p.m.

Informal dance at Shirreff Hall, at which all freshmen and

freshie sophs will be guests of the Sophomore Class.

SATURDAY, SEPT. 28—

10 p.m.—Meeting in Chemistry Theatre for the purpose of electing

a temporary committee.

This meeting will be followed by

an assembly in the Gymnasium, where you will have an
opportunity of meeting your professors and receive your

freshman costumes.

MONDAY, SEPT. 30—

P.M. All first year students will be guests at the Capitol Theatre.
On the following two Mondays they will be guests at the
Orpheus and Casino theatres.

TUESDAY, OCT. 1—

12 Noon. Organization meeting for the purpose of being introduced

to the officers of the Students’ Council.

On the following

Tuesday, at the same hour, the officers of all other student
organizations will be introduced to the freshman class.

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 2—

8.15 p.m. Glee Club performance in Gymnasium. The freshman class
will assemble in the Chemistry Theatre at 8 p.m., wearing

regalia.

THURSDAY, OCT. 3—
12 Noon.
President Stanley.

The Freshman Class and University will be addressed by

 

 

TAKE YOUR
MEDICINE

The poet indulges in visionary
fancies. This column shall kindle
with matters dull or spirited, alive
to all the glory that is medicine.
Happy in this new experience—
perusing the darkest corners of
Forrest Hall, the tiled corridors of
the Health Clinic, and the formationized Pathology Institute, with a
casual glance at the Victoria General Hospital. These informal jaunts
shall comprise the knowledge of this
column. Lest it shall perish for
want of news, an earnest plea is
herewith set forth for the news
which need be mine. The dignity
which is ours shall be maintained,
and that which is confidently submitted will certainly find its way
into the column.

 

 

What of the freshmen who flock
to dear Dal, with its regulations,

 

issues of the “Gazette” will carry
to them news of current campus
activity. And the special alumni
section, it is hoped, will give them
news of their former classmates
and of activities to strengthen the
ties between everywhere Dalhousian,
old or new, and his university.

For these reasons it is urgently
requested that everyone assist in
offering suggestions and contributions to the proposed alumni section
of the “Gazette”. Simply address
your offering to the “Alumni News
Editor, ‘Gazette’ office, Studley,”
and you may be certain that every
offering will receive grateful consideration.

The present executive of the
Alumni-Alumnae bodies who are
striving to bring something fruitful
of this new co-operative movement
are: ‘

Dalhousie Alumnae Association.
President—Mrs. W. L. Maclean.
Ist Vice-Pres. — Mrs. G. K. Mac
Intosh.

2nd Vice-Pres.—Mrs. Ian MacDonald.

Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. H. S.
MacDonald.

Recording Secretary—Miss Marjorie
Dunsworth.

Treasurer—Miss M. G. Wambolt.

Committee--Mis. Vincent Macdonald.
Dr. Dixie Pelluet (Mrs. Ronald
Hayes), Miss Ailleen Meagher,
Miss Marjorie Haliburton, Mrs.
E. T. Parker.
Dalhousie Alumni Association.

President—S. R. Balcom.

1st Vice-President—J. W. Godfrey.

2nd Vice-Pres.—Donald Mac Innes.

Secretary-Treas.—H. G. Stairs.

Committee—Dr. Gerald Burns, T. H.
Coffin, Gordon Graham, R. E.
Inglis, Murray Rankin.

Auditors—Robert U. Slayter,
Terry Creighton.,

Alumni Governors — Dr. Kenneth
MacKenzie, Major H. S. Roper.

W. G AA; 729.

H.

|

———————

—————————

LL
eee

a

and have been cautioned to do this
and that and not join the professor
while he defiantly ignores the “no
smoking” signs?

 

Indices for 1935 reveal that the
purchasing power of the dollar enables the student to buy more than
the usual number of books—that
should be burned. It’s really quite
simple to pick up a 4th edition
Starling for the price that would
get you a new one.

 

The best course in 2nd year has
been deferred to 3rd year, where the
embryo apothecaries (prescription
scribblers) can sharpen their nostrils
on the effervescences masked to
peprfection; where ether, camphor
and turpentine are plain ether.

 

We enviously observed the 4th
year Meds trudging about the hospital buildings. A problem is their’s
to spend the evenings previously
cramped with anatomy and pathology. Many are killing time guzzling malteds in the sweet shoppe.
Ah for the life of the 4th year Med!

 

Hail the physiology department.
No need to crow, the partial exams
will keep up in your work. We ragard this interest deeply and kindly
and express our thanks. With anatomy well broken up, too, with a
slight gesture on the part of the
biochemistry department it leaves
only the stiffer courses to attend—
meticulously dressed, finger-nails
filed, face shaven and your hair
parted (better find out the proper
side).

 

SEEN AND HEARD

We stare with wonder at our
“Mayor of Jollymore” as he drives
his black sedan up and down Morris
street. As a certain overlord will
have it, “It’s a bee-yooty.”

 

Another fearful gesture: “For
God’s sake, don’t play football.”

 

Who says, “Don’t mind the exams
—go to a show.

 

Make haste, Emily Post! Our
young Ronald is displaying the key
to his girl-friend’s house—and at
such an early hour, too! Counsel the
little Baird wolf.

 

Dr. Dryer—“How are you? Spend
a pleasant summer?”

Stud. — “Fine, thank you — and
you?”

Dr. D—‘‘Never loafed so much
in all my life.”

Stud.—‘How unfortunate—I am
still a student.”

 

The column closes with an allusion to the Scriptures:
“Stray not from the evil path—
and be called before the Dean.”

ee —

Quo Vadis ?

There’s been a lot of talk in
years past of the wane of Dalhousie “spirit”, The reasons why
do not happen to matter, since
this is a new year at Dal. Perhaps if students will start a
new slate clean, forget other
years, continue this year the right
way without recriminations,
bickering, personalities, and
other such foibles, and get down
to business, perhaps the “spirit”
will take care of itself and come
back!

The “Gazette” would like to
see:

EVERYBODY out to football
games.

EVERYBODY

yelling themthemselves hoarse.

EVERYBODY talking Dalhousie and not Defeatism.

EVERYBODY doing their bit
instead of letting the other fellow.

EVERYBODY throwing aside
personal prejudices and taking
a part of the load (Freshmen,
too).

IN FACT, everybody taking
care of their own “spirit”. The
chain is no stronger than its
weakest link. How’s yours?

Star Singers Are
Back At College

Bill Stevens, who will be well
known to the freshmen within the
next few weeks, will be back on the
stage of Dalhousie this year in better form than ever.

Freshmen of the University may
be introduced to Bill thusly: He’s
the smallest man on the campus,
weighing a mere 273 pounds( and
likes it). He is about 6 feet 3
inches high, and plays a fast game
of ping pong. His forte is singing,
and cheers for him have well nigh
strained the Dal Gym roof. Bill will
be heard in the first Glee Club concert. |

Fran Gardner, star singer of a few
of last year’s shows and ready for
this year’s fray as she enters her
senior year, will also be seen in the
first Glee Club production, ’tis said,
and this will be but another treat
for the Freshmen entering college
this year. Several new stars are
to be uncovered, rumors say, and it
looks like a real big year.

Freshmen Professors-
(Continued from Page One)

ed to his department to take over
from Prof. Dawson, while the latter
goes to Saskatoon. Both Prof. MacKay and Prof. Dawson need no introduction to most of the students
and are well known men around the
campus.

Prof. A. R. Jewitt, English professor under Prof. C. L. Bennet, will
not be at the University this year
in English 1, but will be replaced by
Prof. Casson, who arrived from England a few days ago. Prof. Casson
comes here with excellent qualifications. Prof. Jewitt will be absent
for a year,

Prof. Casson will be attached to
King’s College.

Latin students this year will miss
instructor Lionel Pearson, whose
classes will be taken over by Jock
Kent, who is well qualified to fill the
vacancy.

Medical students have already
welcomed Dr. Kenneth Grant in the
medical school as professor of ob.
stetrics. Dr. Grant is also well qualified for his position and is last but
far from least of the notable additions to Dalhousie’s staff of new
professors and instructors this year.

New professors and instructors—
freshmen all—the Dalhousie Gazette
greets you.

 

    
  
  
   
 

DANCE MUSIC

Laurie Hart

And His Orchestra.

Call B-6489 Halifax

 

SSS SSS
a —_— —_
LS

i
tm

 

We hope that the title of this section does not mislead you, but it
seemed rather apt for the material

to be found here. After all, if it
isn’t a fact it is a fable—in either
case it may be a foible. After you
have read our endeavour for two
weeks (are we too optimistic?) you
may come to the conclusion that this
column should be headed THE
CHILDREN’S CORNER, or UNCLE
DON’S TALK. But really, we hope
you won’t think it that nice.

We shall certainly do our best to
please; our motto is: WE AIM TO
PLEASE but don’t bother to write
in to tell us that our markmanship
is bad—’cause we know it.

 

Talking about guns, have you
heard the story about the man who
had three good looking daughters.
After they were all safely married,
the good man offered his gun for
sale because (We don’t think this
is suitable for this column, Editor’s
note) (Yes, Mr. Editor, perhaps you
are right—and besides, even if the
Senate had not heard it, we know
that the lads and lasses have.)

 

 

One of our contemporaries heads
the column thus: A COLUMN WITH
A MISSION NOT A MUZZLE. We
like that, for as water seeks its own
level so truth will out. You can
easily verify this by listening to
Walter Winchell or taking out a
Sheriff Hall girl . . . We have no
mission, no cause to back—we respectfully refer you to the editorials.
Nor have we any muzzle; we'll just
let Constance be our guide. In short
all you will find out in this column
will be a little of this and a little of
that—with particular reference to
that.

 

Another great newspaper has
these words at the top of the front
page: ALL THE NEWS THAT'S
FIT TO PRINT—and a lot more besides. We shall follow their example and make certain that each and
every item just glistens with whiteness. Moral: a clean tooth never decays and a chocolate coating on the
pill does not make it anything but a
pill. Result: perhaps we can coat
some of those border line items with
chocolate. NO—we couldn’t do that;
not in this age. As all students and
others attending this institution
know, freedom of the press is gradually being lost. Dictators always
muzzle the press and if we value our
life we must keep this in mind. Oh,
for the good old days wf laissezfaire, liberal expense accounts and.
little questioning about items thereupon—when lemons were brought by
the carload for the football team.

 

A thought has just reached the
somewhat befuddled brain that is
trying to instruct the fingers that
pounds these keys. Herman, pass
the buttermilk. Ah, that is good.
You don’t like buttermilk? Well,
neither did we—but now that Victor
has gone to Oxford we’ve changed
our diet.

 

If we write a little item here
and you have seen, or heard, the
story before, don’t write in to tell
us that because we know that. We
don’t pretend to be original; like lecturers we just dig out what we
have heard, hoping that there will
be at least one person who wasn’t
at that Sorority tea, or heard the
story through such a person. When
we want something to fill up space
we just go back to our notes which
we took in a certain class given in
the Arts & Science Faculty; we
agree that the stories were old stuff
then—but they were well preserved.
Even if you heard the story away
back in the days of prosperity, we
respectfully ask you not to be scornful about passing off history because
you should respect old age.

(Continued on Page Four)

 
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

wn

Dalhousie wants the 1935 city league title! That is the
spirit with which the boys are tackling the football question
this year. The old spirit, the old vim and vigor that has been
so sadly lacking these last few years has returned at last to the
football field. A wealth of new material added to those performers of 1934 who have returned to the university breeds
promise of an excellent season. Only one thing more is necessary—that quality which has been absent for a long long time—
student support. If the students of Dalhousie get out and get
behind their team this year the Tigers stand an excellent chance
to cop the city league crown.

After an auspicious start last fall in which the Bengals took
the measure of the Uniteds by 18 points, the college fifteen literally fell to pieces and lost each succeeding game. The Tigers
had lost their roar and instead of being the feared fighters of

old were laughingly referred to as ‘“McCarthy’s Pussycats.”

True the ranks of the Dalhousie fifteens were riddled by in
juries and sixteen players were forced out for the season but
the fight was not there—the boys were listless. In that manner ended probably the most disastrous compaign the college
ever had. It wasn’t the lack of a coach, for Dal had one of the
finest mentor in the Maritimes; it wasn’t the lack of good players, for the Tigers had a powerful and speedy backfield combined
with a fast pack of forwards; but it was the lack of spirit both
among the student and the players. Students, support your
team this year because it’s going to be a good one. Loosen up
and let us see a revival of the old days when seats at a DalAcadia football game were at a premium.

And so we pass to the 1935 campaign which will likely open
on October 5th. The dismal failure of last year cannot be repeated and the attitude of the practicing players bodes well for
football reform. But the other teams are to be reckoned with.
Dalhousie lost all her games last year by narrow margins, that
is, the opponents possessed the added scoring punch which Dal
did not. Why was this so? Solely because opposing rooters got
behind their teams. Why not Dalhousie?

The new material on hand in the professional schools consists not of promising prospects but of well known performers
with many years experience. The usual strong backfield is on
hand including Jack Buckley, Doug Crease, Henry Ross, and
George Thompson. In addition Allie McSween, outstanding
wing forward, has returned after a year’s absence and Mike
Hinchey formerly of St. F. X. is campaigning in the threequarter line. Hazen Mitchell, a newcomer, is a likely prospect
to fill the shoes of speedy Jim Crosby. Despite the loss of si:
forwards this year’s scrum looks better if anything with the
coming of Pat Gunter and Pooh DeWolf, Acadia stars, and Bill
Cook of Mount Allison.

The coaching duties to date have been in the more than
capable hands of Professor Fletcher, a former Cambridge player, but it is expected that Big Jim MacDonald will take charge
for the season due to the fact that the former is pressed for
time. Dr. Arnold Noble has signified his willingness to assist

*when able so the teams destinies are in good hands. The man
-agerial reins rest in the hands of “Truro Bob” McLellan and
Assistant Toby Beeber. Everybody is pulling for the team to
regain the title and the reputation once more of being Dalhousie’s Iron Men.

 

Coming - 
Watch For

THE
FRESHIE - SOPH
DANCE

Feature Football

Issue

 

 

  

  
 

ew Fall Togs
For the ‘Collegian!

  
   

  

We are now showing a
wide assortment of smart

 
 

suits and topcoats to

 
 

|
please the taste of every
They are

   
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
  

young man.
tailored of all wool materials in snappy new
styles ... many colours
and patterns. Sizes 25
to 42.

Priced from
15.00 to 97.50

Eaton’s Main Floor

oO

LIMITED

“TE N
®*§MARITIMES

   

Will we have a band this

year?

 

Will Dalhousie have a band this year? Shades of 1929 when Sina Singer and the other

lads as shown above filled the campus with their music may
rumor says.

be repeated, popular college

If such be the case, Dalhousians all will be expected to give their support.

 

Facts, Fables-
(Continued from Page Three)

After reading the PRESIDENT’S
REPORT we have concluded that we
have a financial interest in the girls
at SHIRREFF HALL—we see that |
this residence suffered a very nice
deficit last year. We suggest you |
read this REPORT—~you’ll find it
rather interesting here and there
and besides you’ll se how the University spends its money.

SENIOR FOOTBALL
SCHEDULE

Following is the football schedule for the Senior City League.
The first named is the home
team :—

Oct. 5—Dal. vs. Acadia.
12—Acadia vs. Wanderers.
19—Wanderers vs. Dal.

26—Wanderers vs. Acadia.

Nov. 2—Acadia vs. Dal.
9—Dal vs. Wanderers.

 

We suppose that the past summer
saw the usual romances, for with
ears and canoes and pleasant evenings and the soothing, exciting,
urging strains of Wayne King, ‘t
would take a superman—a stringent
orthodox, deaf, dumb and blind—to
resist the charms. We haven’t heard
of any marriages but then perhaps
it is too early—maybe they’re going
bo wait until they graduate!

In event of a tie the playoff
will be on Nov. 11.

 

 

Sophmores Add

(Continued from Page One)

years roll by you will become conscious of their value.

Nothing has as yet been said of
one other aspect of our program. As
a test of your attitude and intention
to co-operate with us in our objective, a few obligations will be
placed upon you. But these are few
in number and easy of performance.
Your respect for these requirements
will not only gain for you the admiration of the college as a whole,
but will repay you many times in
the satisfaction of duties well performed,

As a final thought, then, let us assure you that we are here to help
you along in the difficulties that
may confront you in your new environment, and hope you will employ what little experience we have
acquired after one year at dear old
Dalhousie.

 

GIRL WILL HAVE TO CHOOSE
BETWEEN LOVE AND COLLEGE
CAREER: No, we are not making
any pronouncement; we are merely
quoting from the advice given by
the HEART-THROB editor of a local
paper. The editor writes thus:
“Dear Undecided: You will have to
decide between your love affair and
your college career. You can’t have
your cake and eat it too.” This
doesn’t seem very good advice to us
because if the facts are facts, a
great many girls have been eating
their cake and having it too. All
we know about love we learned in
PSYCHOLOGY I and from reading
TRUE ROMANCE, the Listerine
and Yeast cake advertisement and
PHYSICAL CULTURE but nevertheless we are going to write an
answer.

“Dear Undecided: So you can’t
decide whether to go to college or
marry the man of your dreams!
That is not surprising ...a great
many others have had to answer the
same question, even after they got
to college. You can well imagine
their embarrassment; here they were
trying to write a masterpiece WHAT
IS BEAUTY for Prof. Bennet, when
all the time they were thinking
about that mighty football man.
What were they to do? Besides the
hash was even worse that night and
as for the bread pudding, well, my
dear ... We suggest that you immediately enroll at DALHOUSIE
college for there it is possible to
mix love with a career, providing Edith Blair, who for the past year
you are discrete and don’t annoy | was attending Queen’s University as

fiss MacKeen. When registering |an exchange student, will return to
you should mention this matter to Dalhousie for the Senior year.

 

Mr. Harper, who will allow you a
20% discount on your tuition, when
you take both courses. ... but of
course, you must keep on _ the
right track, and by the way there’s
a dinky parking spot on the Arm
road just about a mile from the
bridge — but you gotta get there
early! Miss Fairfax said that love
and a college career don’t mix, because you can’t have you cake and
eat it too—but if you stay at Shirreff Hall, this won’t bother you,
‘cause they don’t have cake down
there,”

 

H. H. Gunter, well known Acadia
football star, is attending the Dalhousie Law School.

 

—————————L Se reeers egestas uence rg

 

The Class of '39 -
(Continued from Page One)

But till then they all will be
Sons of one old Alma Mater—
Though their money comes from “patér”.

Welcome to these hallowed portals,
Class of ’39!

Sophs may look with muffled chortles,
Yet the wealth of years is thine.

Take, and dwell with the Immortals,
Drink of Wisdom’s sweetest wine!
Greetings! Glad to have you with us!
Hope you’re not plucked out at Xmas!

TENNIS
OPENING

| The opening of the tennis season

lat Dalhousie was marked by a
| friendly tournament between Dal and
the Alumni. After several stiff

matches the students were declared
the winners, having to their credit
five victories. The courts themselves
are in excellent shape this year.

|
|

Don Saunderson defeated J. R.
Donahoe, 6—3, 6—4.
6—4.

EK. Stewart defeated J. Kent, 6--1,

Muriel Donahoe defeated Jean
Fitzgerald, 11—9, 6—4.

M. Musgrave and J. Fraser defeated Dr. F. V. Woodbury and Mrs.
C. Bethune, 5—6, 6—3, 7—5.

Stewart and Garten defeated Kent
and Mercer, 8—10, 6—38, 8—6.

J. Fitzgerald and J. Fraser defeated Mrs. C. Bethune and Mrs. Edith
MacNeil, 6—1, 6—4.

 

COURTS READY

The Carleton Tennis Club courts
and property are now available at
all times, for the use of Dalhousie
students, it is announced.

CASINO

Week Beginning Saturday
September 28th

CLARK
GABLE
JEAN
HARLOW

WALLACE
BERRY

“CHINA
SEAS”

 

Canada.

| expected

|

 

     
  
 

   
       
   
     

Communicate

Friday, September 27, 1935

TENNIS

This season promises to be a banner year for tennis at Dalhousie.
Under the capable management of
Edgar Stewart of last year’s team,
the tennis racqueteers can look forward to another season of conquest
and achievement and, we feel sure,
another Maritime Intercollegiate
Championship.

Arrangements have already been
completed for Acadia, which will
have a strong team this year under
the direction of Roy Lockhart, to
play the Tiger team on the 12th of
October, which is the second Saturday of that month. The winner of
this match then plays the winner of
the University of New Brunswick
and Mount Allison combat at Mount
Allison. The Gold and Black are
favored to repeat conquests of previous years.

In order to give all players a
chance to demonstrate their ability
and to assist the Committee in
selecting a team for the Acadia
match, a tryout has been arranged
against a team from Kings. The
date of this match will be announced
in next week’s GAZETTE. Watch
for it!

Of last year’s team the only girl
to be missing is ‘Pat”
Church. The others, I. Fraser, H.
Holman, B. Miller and J. Fitzgerald
will doubtless be on hand. Of the
men, Vie Oland will not be back but
the remainder, Ed. Stewart, Don
Saunderson, Mit Musgrave and Johnny Godwin are expected to be with
us to thrust back the threatened invasion by Acadia.

Newcomers are welcome and the
Freshmen are especially requested
to turn out for the team. Each
player will be given due consideration when the team is being drawn
up.

 

 

     
 

Greetings - 
    
 

Birks extend a hearty
welcome to new and returing students.

    
     
   
     
 

A visit to their store,
even if no purchase is
intended, will be appreciated.

    
       
     
   
    

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

 
      
       
  

 

Friday - Saturday - Monday

BETTE DAVIS

GEORGE BRENT

“Front Page Woman”

SPECIAL
FIGHT PICTURES

BAER vs. LOUIS

A Message To College Men

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a
provision for the future, or contemplatng the
selling of life insurance as a profession, you
would do well to consider the outstanding

sixty-four year record of The Mutual Life of

with our nearest

Branch Manager or our Home Office.

Mutual Life Assurance Company
OF CANADA

HOME OFFICE — WATERLOO, ONTARIO

Established 1869

 

 
