     
  

   

yd
—_ oe ae oe 7 +e :
be ot : sr ’ vi Dy
; Pie th pet
SERS a ; Pees 's)
' "2" Sas FA oe Eas be.
2 par a rae e* tS os a
De te Nk Meee = sl a
+- <a ar et) = r _
a 9% zo

   
  
 

_

   

“THE COLLEGE i
ae ==

 

IIYIQUUUIOUUE.NU UENO TE

    

   

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 13, 1936. | No. 20

ll  _

Tops Season

LARGE CROWD TURNS OUT Peace Hour To Russia is Subject

|TO CELEBRATE LAST HOLIDAY Be Held Of Interesting Talk

tite FYE i 73 Reel all ing session of the Munro. body would continue to give the Ath- | It it easy to be a student and husAt the quietest Council meeting of ge tant began with a brief ‘letic Club the ardent support it has On Wednesday, March 19th, wn band 6P coife an Russia, remarked
e year, the question of the yearly speech by President Stanley. The enjoyed throughout the year. Harold i all ee are 2 ane Miss Spaull in ei tates esting talk on
banquet. for the Council was turned theme of the President’s address was|Taylor, retiring president of the,an hour away a8 - uc a Youth in Russia. The State provides
down flat. The suggestion was made an appeal to the student body to car- Students’ Council, introduced the | All Phebe are taking the ais “| quarters for married couples who atae lby Mac ennan that the yearly cus- ry on the Dalhousie tradition of 1936-387 representatives. He mention- eleven o'clock to co-ordinate their’ tend Universities. :
cret a > Club, and tom be carried, and after proding “freedom and tolerance”. This spirit ed the difficulty that has arisen re-| activity. ? All children go to school till the
Thompso ‘member of the! and cajoling, - seconded by Miss |h6 stated, is essential to the future garding the election of Commerce| All classes will be called off at/age of seventeen years; at twelve,
1663 mittee, at nox 1 ON Fraser, the motion ‘was swept into welfare and progress of the world. | and Engineering reps. and announced | that hour. however, their education takes on a
n, _ jointly the discard. Another forward step. Henry Ross, vice-president of the ' that a forum would be held to decide The time is more than pertinent. ' special training for their life work.
ble records of the “4 The meeting -was_ marked by the D.A.A.C. gave a short account of this, whether or not the entire Arts and} The President has agreed to call of A person who plans to spend his life
minutes of the absence. of Murray Rankine, who year’s activities in sports, and ex-| Science faculties should vote in “—
lub and of the} was down with a severe cold. In his

classes and a letter from the Stu. in a factory has his geography lesover |pressed the hope that the student elections. dents’ Council has been sent to the son with special emphasis on the
| now in- <ist- absence, Miss Fraser presided over| |

es ££ F HF HH HR Senate, who it is believed will raise country where the materials neces’ | no objection, sary for his manufactured product
no are in at |g enceforth, only one “D” will be! ~—--sHonour Awards Announced
ae Teese awarded for Gazette work. Last |
ing Fa 1e col. > pan AE 3

 

 

  

 

 

 

  
 

  

 

 

    
    

  
  

  
 

 

  
  

 

 

 

 
  
  
  
 
      
   

 
  
  
 
   
  

 

  
   
 

 
 
 

    
  
 
     
 

  

 
 
  
  
  
 

  

    

 
 
 
 
  
 

 
 
 
  
 

  
 
   
 

   
 
 
   
     

  
 
  
 

Dr. Stanley will speak BBO ee oe de hatin a cee:
v Last} — | : then the meeting will be thrown open = ABOU Ch SIGEMS ChUPCheS, is
eee Ne 4 ota y ‘D’| Bob MacLellan announced the low students, held various offices on
“| year’s suggestion that a Literary ‘D’|_ Bob er

  
      

Paks ing i Malcom Honour Awards. The class|the Students’ Council and other|to students who will necessarily te for ee of an Ee site
ed ean pct tee ’86 may well take pride in the! campus organizations, and left be- limited to two minutes each. jo Sonvae for & majority wet as
ood work was serene | that among their numbers there|/hind him an excellent record in| Ag this is the last edition of the people in that sae to a
ee ee, so inte ener such representative students. | sports and studies. Gazette there can be no further an- be used for another purpose. —e
aa Le ee as, :

  

     
  
 
  

 
  
 
  
         

 
  
   
    
    

 

    
  
  

    
 

os. ; 3 : : ; Spuall deprecated this practice. ;
requirements for a Those who received the award were: Ernie ep ety A *P a nape ae neh puss organ. Miss Spaull who personally has no
To 1e Editors. and|- Elizabeth Ballem, who has attained offices: on the D.A.A. ‘4 his els atch for notices on boards. Counanisite alesiin madeira atkins
a ied ¢ A : ainclske d by ‘the |excellence in her literary debating, executive, Sodales, and his Seaseren ay | ; | eacabicas from a small. but lively. _
Peete oe and om ek ‘up aa all “D’s”|and scholastic activities. _|In debating he has brought fame to | pe reeere S :
CiIuSIVe Sig: te | + Gara i J } = 7

  
  
  
 

ea
WAT

  
  
 

  
   

---—s- for the current year were not included in this survey.
The results are as follows:

~ Helen Belyea, who has won repute himself and Dalhousie which will not : . : iasead tgivers Woah Wien hae
for excellent scholarship, particularly | soon be forgotten. University Invitations | land; psychologists help the youth to
in the Geology department, and for Harry Sutherland, who has ren
her five years of popularity at the|dered such valuable service to So- Cancelled

recontmended shall be at liberty to
recommend that such a person be
granted a letter.

Charlie Manning will receive an

audience. Surprising facts; Dickens

choose their profession; class plans

 

 

   

 

 
    
  

 

 

|
as they do exist do not follow, but
Hall and on the campus. ,dales and the Gazette Staff, and who :
\ k in debating. ; cut through the family.
1934-35 ra ae aoe scene James Muir, who has won such re-|has carried on the Pictou County sk a 4
Football: Elmer Ball, Jack Buck- bainin a motion passed by a meeting |SPect and admiration from his fel-| tradition in his classes. | Invitations received from Swashley, Manning Peters. f th a iety recommending that the Poe le ee | buckling University of Herdelburg to Meds Hold Balance
Basketball: Mit Musgrave, Ted i € ee " ng oe celebrate its 550th anniversity were
resident o € society receive : 3 et sfuc aes . toe
ar : John Carroll, John Mul.! letter, and passed unanimously. On behalf of the members of the Dalhousie Council of tee large number of British Of P ower
i eae si : The Senate wil be asked to raise the Students I wish to take this opportunity to thank owe a a
; oie a. ae Musgrave, Don Saun-| the Council fee to twelve dollars next|}_ the students and all other persons who helped in pre- P outing Prof. Wilhelm Geoh then] jy,  ;. impossible to trick the
ee a year, and each person paying the paring the activities for Munro Day. vu Ss Hond in the air and cancelled Faculty of Medicine in a University
derson, Edgar Stewart. < A ] y Book all invitations to the British institu- Election. Feeling the must vote for
zs igen co will receive a Year Boo GORDON H. THOMPSON, q - Heeling they must vo
1933- in the Spring.

: ‘ tion of learning. All—but that of f py oe
‘ ; : aculty rather than man the Medicos
Chairman of Munro Day Committee. Cambridge: y

turned in majority that could not
have been the result of several hurried individual opinions if the one
basic thought of Faculty had been

Football: Jack Buckley, Allie Mac-| The Council will meet once more to
Sween, Perey Sheppard.

consider applications for the various ; Remarks “Var sity” ( University of
Basketball: Mit Musgrave. salaried positions—and then another The Glee Club Show Toronto) “Officials are mystified...
Hockey: Eddie Cohn, Jack Buckley. |Council will have fulfilled its duty) The Glee Club, in presenting “The The Bronze Statuary owed its suc-|#!though Cambridge have made no
Tennis: Mit Musgrave. to the students, and open the door Black and Gold Supper Club” staged | cess to the excellence of the cast and|°i¢ial announcement as yet, it is

  

 

obliterated.
1932-33 to its successor. one of the year’s best shows. Con-|to the engineers who arranged the ones unlikely they will accept Power : Every person who received
E Football: Percy Sheppard 1931-32 gratulations go not only to the| announcement sheet. Se when all others are|a majority from the Med—Glee Club,
S : : : : . or D.A.A.C. was elected
Basketball: Leo Green Ab Mandle- : singers, dancers, and comedians but :
eae paeai d Carl Stoddard, Wakcy also to the stage crew and the direc-| The entire student body owes a

: . tremendous debt to the people who Mae we ee
P. : of tors. The music, the stage setting ; &

‘ Hockey: Smith (Ike or Art.) Basketball: Ben DuBilier. ; i , B have provided such fine entertain- D { D f t & t J h

| Boxing: Ed Arab. Hockey: Louie Ryan. uke ment throughout the year. To those a © ea S ain oO re
is: Mit Musgrave. i at ns z ; Pes :
Tennis i grave (Continued on Page Four) cess of the show. When the cast Pha were awarded D’s we say aoe f n La Ww hy Cc ky re ol DH é b Fs t
added their talent and co-operation | honour was well-deserved, to the
rs be Id to this background the result was a|™4"y others who made valuable conCo-Ed Debate to Be He

fitting grand finale to a Shecessful tributions we extend sincere grati- In what proved to be the best de-|power of self-assertion and control

Glee Club year. tude and appreciation. bate held at Dalhousie in years, and! of our minority rights, the Provinces
In Gym Next Thursday pom Ge am |

certainly one of the best ever held| would become mere vassels of the

 

 

 

 

 

| z ‘ in the University, John Fisher and|Dominion,

Studley Retains Munro Shield Ernest Richardson earned the} Earnest Richardson asserted that
; Dr McKa The Munro Day sports passed by two badminton matches, the first judges’ decision over the representa-|at Confederation, the provinces car. On Thursday, March 19th, the Dal- : 7 off without a hitch and when the a game of ladies doubles in which “Ves of Saint John Law School in the;tied their powers to Westminister

; housie co-eds meet the girls of Mt. Asks Support smoke cleared away Studley emerg- Isabel Freestone and Margaret Kerr Munro Room last Monday night. and surrendered them to the Imperial

St. Bernard in the annual intercolle- ed victories in the annual competi- | were leading their opponents, Peggy! The U. NB -Bationt weds ably Parliament. If the Act were a congiate debate. The topic for this year mean

: tion for the Munroe Shield. |Saunders and Joan Anderson by an represented
will be : “Resolved that a system of |To the Editor: The program got underway sharp 8-5 score when time was called and Moncton
Socialized medicine should be adopted on time with Studley and Forrest the second a singles match bringing Ottawa. Both were polished speakers |P*SS!"& Of the Act, which was not
making available to all complete matched in a softball tussle. Both' together Don Saunderson and Ray and thoroughly conversant with the | © ¢se. medical service at public expense.” teams were evenly matched and a Murphy, the two outstanding raque- topic; namely, That the B.N.A. Act], J@mes MacBrien stated that al; The debate will be held as usual in

i ; good brand of ball, good for the teers of the university, in which the ‘should be amended only with the con- though there was nothing in the Act
the gymnasium at 8 p.m. Elizabeth conditions, was played resulting in a latter was leadi
Ballem, Pearl Levine, and Gene Mor
by Lloyd Keating of tract, then the Act would be based
and James MacBrien from|°™ the Conventions held prior to the

Dear Sir,—The magazines and

papers in the men’s Common Room

of the Arts Building have been

placed there on the understanding

that they are not to be removed from

bs | ng 14-8 when time sent of all the Provinces. itself to Flam a amendments,
at room. 3-2 win for the boys from Forrest was up The M nor any assertion that unanimous
i x 3 ; . : ‘ . a Room was packed not :
on will support the affirmative of lina? + | eon P *" consent requir ame
the DosleGat.. Unfortunately some thoughtless} Mr. Stirling’s reg = sont ee The ping pong match between Leo only with students, but also with a reiti Bais thal thee ection Cre
’ Piidal tepie te. axador considerable | Student is not playing the game. ee i : oe meee 4 i tro | Green and Gilbert Lhev, showed large representation from down town | \,, shinee Sd has slowly dena” Seale
‘ Magazines and papers have been dis-|high and parallel bars with } “-jmost of us a few things about this including Dr. Dougal Macegillivra fs es ee
q discussion at the present time when appearing, Stirling himself leading them and| : > . .
os various social reforms, and forms of

create bad feeling in any of the
provinces, which would only lead to
secession.

bic: bts ‘ 6 | Popular sport. It was perhaps, ex- The meeting was presided over by

socialism are being demanded. The| The latest offence is the removal ee 1S customary fine perform- cluding the hockey match, the most Dean Vincent C. MacDonald, KC.
co-eds should be able to cast an jin-|of Punch Magazine together with Bonileaend stein hat tects nee he ene NuemS ng the after- a si Judges were | Hev. Bro.
; teresting light on it the new binder in which it was en- ,noon, each player matching point Corneila, Pres, of St. Mary’s, Judge | .; le of the Bae yh ’

| ° : ball defeat when they won an 11-8 : ; , M f : : 2, side of the question, and suggested
The interest which the co-eds have |Closed. Under these circumstances eusiist Exoun . ihe 3 pireana: for point to end the game in a 24- 1 urray, J.C.C. and R. EB. Marshall, | that there were many cases where
_ in debating has revealed itself in two | Punch will not be placed in the room hoopsters i a sera Kamel ay 3 ren Vice-Principal of the Academy. the Act could and has been amended
Ways this year—both by the amount | henceforth unless the missing copy ae ae a <1. “The boxing team, to which so lit-; Opening the debate, Mr. Keating without the consent of all the Prov.
Meehan ieee dive dons thes, |and binder ara vostored moe ek = wien a credit Is ever given for doing pointed out that since Confederation, inces, and without any objection
selves, and by, the number of girls The co-operation of the students is only four men led by Ted Crease |; on ee ee ie eee eee had been no difficulty in| from them. There were ample safe_ who have turned out to hear boys’ earnestly requested to prevent such and Mit Musgrave: but were able alice — ni aso a a amending the B.N.A, Act, because| guards for provincial interests, and
ee debates. In return for their efforts anti-social offences in the future. hold their opponents until their fifth | ease ee
_ all they ask is that they be given

the amendments were acquiesed in by they would never be sacrificed.
he bea eeiean br. oe ee and Wink all the Provinces, and the provincial Mr. MacBrien concluded the debate
- some real support, in the form of a R. A. MacKAY, The baakethall eamé-was followed | onnson, Flyweight, in a two round rights of each were not affected. If| with a short rebuttal, reiterating
*..* ar » and interested audience. on behalf of the Committee.

(Continued on Page Four) we should hand over our present | their stand on the question.

an

John Fisher discussed the political

 
    
   
 

a“

 

ro
&

eo
‘4 %& .
a 7
a eee

   

ops eh
,

s
A

M ig Betty Pearson,
ee ee Davidson, I

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Friday, March 13th, 1936

 

 

EDITORIAL STAFF

ke N S a Editors vine be
TRA eae
LEN KITZ — EDITH BLAIR BILL SUTHERLAND
; Society . Editor Literary Editor ees
“MERLE PURTILL = ELISABETH BALLEM ae ee
B. 2148 Staff Artist
; ba C. F. BENTLEY ;
st : Assistant
Business Manager DOUGLAS CREASE
J. R. . eee B. 5737

= ale,” ; this year have been:
Contributors to Gazette Edward MacLatchey,

Thompson and Gordon Thompson.

{

THE YEAR BOOK

5 ‘ ” indicate that
rts from the staff of Pharos” in at
Be Year Book is going tay Mm Calg? Myla aan
: s are in and in a sho
ey cis tor the agg aa vie re going i
e
contain a number of new features nN 2 a
i ting a number 0
the campus. Pictures depic ee ay pani
interest will be seen; caricatures ae peas hore
leaders will fill a number of pages, ee bore
il f other specialties, bu e
ac be haan, only by the lucky purchasers of
“Pharos”. pee
’ ek Year Book is an important 2 abeenae ow! eo
i i f every student,

It should receive the backing Oo Pt chemeans “1
fact must be the case if it is to be a a Soran
i e we are assured of Year
sahager Se : aes: All the pee of gues a
. ce aD e
asked to do is to buy a “Pharos”. e pric oe

ber of books are limited,
been cut to only $2.00. The num eal
so be assured of your copy; be fee - os ace lges
lists now. In this way you will be helping ee
i life. You will ai e
important feature of Dalhousie ‘ae Anata

i i ble recollection of their colleg
graduates in having a tangibl Ba esc
. ll help make this year's A

Ee tat ant ious. you will be purchasing $10.00 worth
of real fun and amusement. .

 

LET’S BANQUET THE COUNCIL

; : SE
t of the Council at last Saturday’s meeting in re
fe .. vote money for the purpose of giving ey.
a banquet has received a great deal of comment sey :
campus. Some have said that their move was to be commended and others have stated the opposite. : he ee
ments for the former have simply been condensed in cian
brief fact that after all the eet an oe ier eee =
l hope of having a banqu
ee they acemntel the honour thrust upon them Lea
heartedly, knowing what they were in for and thus i
should not ask for reward. Others have argued differently.
The Council say they la io — ee ies
roblems as best they could. |
a in most instances, of their time and ne zen
they have done a ge sree job. ties oe a - oe
i reciation for this work an
eet the Council a few dollars to expend in a oo
hours of enjoyment. Like any other organization “ s
finishes its year without a serious mishap the a < eserves a bit of reward other than student comment. mt ey
consist of a number of members who really have Da oe
at heart. The cautious way in which they expen e
funds in their care show this.
Of these two arguments the latter seems to hold the
best. In our opinion the Council have done a fine job. It
is true that in a few instances we have not agreed in entirety with their moves, but taking the year as a whole we
cannot do otherwise but commend the Council for the fine
business like manner in which they have carried out their
duties. It is with this in mind that we suggest that they
should be rewarded for doing their duty. Let them have a
banquet if they so desire and let the student body at least
ive some credit where credit is due and show their respects
some tangible way. At the next student forum suggest
that the Council be feted.

AU REVOIR

THs issue of the Gazette is the last one for this term.
The Gazette this year, we feel has been a very sucess
ful one and for this we must thank all those who have been
kind enough to help as much as they could.

We advert to two classes of contributors, those who
have helped us in the form of written contributions, the
student body; and those who have helped us with advice,
and the mechanical end of the paper, the staff of “The
Weeks Printing Company”. The publication of a paper is
not a one man job and it could never have been done without the aid of these people.

_ Too, we thank our readers for their moral support.
The task has been a very interesting one, but a difficult
one as well, it is impossible to please everyone, our job was
to please as many readers as possible, we tried to do this
by varying the style of the Gazette from time to time.
In this way we feel that we did accomplish our end, if we
have failed the blame is not entirely ours, it is yours as
well, the road to remedy was criticism.

___ We feel very proud to have had the opportunity to
edit the Gazette, the memory of the associations formed
through the Gazette will remain in a pleasant thought to
be linked up with our alma mater. :

_ The book is ended, we take this opportunity to wish

the future editors the best of luck, may the editorship of
Eee reey

he oldest college paper in America” prove as pleasant
task to them as it has to us.

  

Marjorie Mitten, Ian
Tobias Beeber, Edgar
Roy Gold, T. Y. M., Fred Barton, George

‘Blurred Vision Something to

Nothing can be seen clearly except in perspective. The finest
water-color is a mere unhappy
blotch at close range, nor is the
beauty of a rose perceived in the
dissection of its petals. Such close
scrutiny may reveal the ingredients
or the elements of which the whole
is made up, but it fails utterly to
reveal what the whole is. In short,
such a view blinds the beholder to
the truth, and forces upon his vision
that which is in fact false; he cannot see the wood for the trees,

Several weeks ago a columnist of
this paper wrote the following:

“A baby’s birth is either a happy
after-thought or an _ unfortunate
hangover as the case may be.”

To the blurred vision of that
writer human intercourse appeared
as nothing more refined than an indulgence in the instincts of the
animal, Granted though it must
unfortunately be that such is sometimes the case, he has overlooked
the overwhelming majority of persons who take part in an act which
has for them something of much
greater significance than the mere
transitory satisfaction of the natural lusts of the flesh.

The fact is too well known for
controversy that a man eats food
because there is a natural urge
within him which varies in intensity
at different times and under different circumstances, but to state that
nothing more than the hunger
pangs of a timber wolf are revealed
in an invitation to tea and the partaking thereof in pleasant company
is not merely a distinct fallacy but
a deliberate misstatement. It is not
merely a superadded veneer; it is
part and parcel of the substance of
our social life, and must be recognized as such by any person who
seks to be other than anti-social.

The Bureau of Statistics in its
cold, matter-of-fact way gives the
lie to any such statement as that
quoted above. Why do the great
majority of persons marry at a time
when almost certainly there has
been no intercourse between the
parties. Common knowledge as well
as a comparison of birth and marriage statistics verifies the latter
statement. Were child-birth nothing more nor less than an afterthought or hangover the entire
structure of marriage and _ the
family would long have disappeared.
In fact the public sanction, under
which persons desirous of obtaining
the incidents of marriage go
through a particular form of cereony, is based upon a very sound
anc substantial public opinion without which the sanction vould not
endure. There is much loose talk
in cextain quarters in 1ezard to the
weakening of the marriays institution, but viewed by and large and
without prejudice there is an obvious taint attached to persons “living in sin” which has nipped in the
bud suggestions such as that which
several years ago made lively gossip under the denomination “conipanionate marriage”. The fact is
well established that our presentday morality does not permit
destruction of family life, and incidentally the lie is given to any
statement that “a baby’s birth is a
hangover.”

For ninety-nine percent of those
who get marriéd it is submitted that
marriage is a premeditated act.
Particularly is this true in the
Maritime Provinces and among the
English - speaking race generally.
Elaborate preparations are made for
event, from the early start on the
hope-chest and the admiration of
others’ wardrobes down to the
shower of kitchen utensils and the
presentation of wedding gifts.

The knitting of little nothings
and the purchase months in advance
of little necessaries not merely by
the expectant mother but by all the
hear female relatives points to
something more than “an unfortunate hangover”. Have you ever seen
the father of a nine-pounder as he
struts down th street on
to work that morning, revelling in
the appelation of “papa” by which
his familiars greet him, and laughing his reply to the taunt, “One
would think you had done it all
yourself.” Think you that this is a
mere afterthought? Or do you
think that his next door neighbor
who is as yet without issue does not
envy him and determine that he too
will seek the same happy state?

Too close vision destroys the per
(Continued on Page Four)

his way

Ss

 

 

|

 

Think About

Those Dal students who pride
themselves on being gentlemen
learned in the law will perhaps be
surprised to know that the good repute in which they are now held did
not always exist in the mind of the
layman. As far back as the Bible
they were classed with the scribes
and the Pharisees. Shakespear and
Dickens express the opinion people
had of barristers in their time. The
rebels in Henry VI planned to kill
all the lawyers and indeed went so
far as to call them “false caterpillars.” Various statutes have been
passed against them. Witness the
English one forbidding lawyers to sit
in Parliament. (Although for that
reason it was known as the Parliament of Dunces.) And a statute
passed in one of the Southern States
against “robbers, lawyers and keepers of bawdy houses.” While a sister
state out-lawed the wearers of the
coif. Today they have attained a
higher place in popular regard and
are affectionately known as “shysters” or “politicians”.

a

 

* *%

It is unlikely that the League will
ever be successful for, over a short
period, its demands require a high
degree of unselfishness. It asks that
the members, at any time and
whether it be to their interests or
not, give it complete support.

In the economic system man, by
acting in his own interest best benefits societyy. On this principle the
League, instead of demanding that
all members be willing to support
it in every crisis by military force,
Should foster multilateral non-aggression pacts between the members.
Then only those interested would
take military action.

It is the fear of having so to do
under the present Covenant that
holds back enforcement of even the
minor sanctions. Under such a plan
all members would probably be willing in view of the great future benefit, to give financial assistance to the
non-aggressor nations who, in selfinterest, were doing the fighting. ...

Pa

It would, perhaps, be interesting
to discover why so many of the newer plays and films use as as a title
an extract from some poetical quotation. Consider, for example. “So
Red the Rose, from Omar Khayham’s, “I sometimes think that never
blooms so red the rose as where
some buried Caesar bled.” Forever
England from Rupert Brooke’s “If I
should die think only this of me, That
there’s some corner in a foreign land
That is forever England.” Or; How
Beautiful Are Thy Feet With Shoes
from mirabile dictu, the Bible, —
“How beautiful are they feet with
shoes, O prince’s daughter! the joints
of thy thighs are like jewels, the
work of the hands of a cunning
workman.”

Why this trend? Is it a pathetic
attempt by the producers to associate their offerings with things more
ethereal? Are their imaginations
beginning to fail or is the title truly
descriptive?

Let this be the valedictory of one
whose college career now closes and
who gets him hence from this emporium of learning, this temple of
the money-getters, with a degree
(dens volunt) with which to bargain
in the material world for material
success. Draw nigh then and give
your attention; for it must surely be
that he, who has sat four years at
the feet of men wise in counsel and
learned in discourse, has something
of moment to tell, something of value
to impart. :

Hark, then, to the quintessence of
a college life, the condensation of accumulated wisdom, and the distillation of the aggregated knowledge
acquired in many fields and over and
over a period of many years; of history, french, latin, economics, political sceience, and myiad other branches of the truth. This compendium of
learning is the literary symbol, as is
the degree the commercial, of the
prospective graduate. And here, free
of charge is; slightly time-worn I
fear, for Ecclesiasticus the Preacher
said it many thousand years agone,
but new now in meaning and cherished therefore as the return for four
years of life and much money spent
in college— “Of making many books
there is no end, and much study is
a weariness of the flesh.”

—_——$ $$ SSS
—_—_—$—$_$_—$—_$_

 

SN
eR
= SSS
—

LS
eee

SHORT STORIES

 

Timothy

The cat was a fluffy one, yet it
was not quite a cat nor was it a
kitten. It was at that stage where
its hind legs were longer than it’s
front ones; where its ears were not
tufted to maturity; where it’s tail
was too long or too short for it’s
whole being. And one of it’s hind
legs was broken.

The cat crouched beside the shelter
of the curb, trembling at the many
feet that passed above, so near it’s
head; at the street cars that roared
on the other side. It could go no
further. The pain in the leg ran
through it’s huddled body until even
the plaintive mewing had stopped.

Something hot and smooth and
hard bumped the little cat from behind so that one fierce pain wracked
its soft body, but even then it did
not move.

In a house at the opposite end of
the city a little girl was crying. An
unsympathetic nurse was trying to
get the velvet overshoes ion restless
feet.

“But why doesn’t Timothy come
home? “I want him, I want him,”
and the words ended in a childish
wail.

The nurse answered impatiently,
she could feel the perspiration
breaking through the carefully laid
powder (which she had taken from
her mistress’ boudoir), while she
gave the little foot a decided yank
and a push on the front of the boot
at the same time which caused the
little girl to add more damage to
the face at her feet by kicking it
with the hurt foot.

The nurse then threw up her hands
touching her face in anger, feeling
the mixture of tears, sweat and cosmetics that moistened her hands.
She fled out of the room.

The little girl gave the silly shoe
a kick across the room and noticed
with relish the black smudge that
the toe of her recently blacked slipper had given it.

She turned and saw the corner of
the couch where Timothy usually sat
and watched her being dressed.
Boots did not go on, nurse got nasty
and muttered things a little girl
could not hear.

She crossed the room softly and
laid her head on the round spot on
the yellow cushion where Timothy
had slept last. She could almost
imagine the tickle of his fuzziness
on her face. She wanted to cry but
that would be no good cause Timothy’s fur would not be warm and
smelly and then wet from her tears.
And that was half the joy of crying.

She knew when she told her
mother about Timothy the answer
would be “I shall get you another
cat much nicer than Timothy,” and
then she would answer “But I don’t
want another cat, I want Timothy.”
Then her mother would turn and
speak sharply, “Don’t whine, there’s
a good girl, Run away now, I must
go to a bridge.”

*

 

* *

The serious discussion of the study
group was over and the leader, a
beautiful, tall girl with pale gray
eyes gazed into the fire thinking. A
young man watching her profile
caused her to turn and gaze fondly
at him. A look filled with meaning
and secrecy

neor the door rang for the tea to
be served.

The room of young people relaxed
and began to talk. Their hostess
saw that everyone was served and
again her dreamy eyes sought the
fire. She was not interested in their
sundry conversation. A phrase once
in a while reached her consciousness
but she did not join in the conversations. Nor did they expect her to.

He was speaking now She smiled
at the sound of his voice. She loved
him.

“That is not as strange as what
I did one time when I was a kid.
I went downtown with dad to his
office and he left me in the car with
the chauffeur. Somehow we started
talking about hydraulie brakes and
Jack said “You see, young man,
how quick we stopped here? Well
there was a cat just in front of the
right wheel.” I remember peering
over the radiator and it was still
there. Strange for a cat. Jack and
I got out and we saw that it’s leg
was broken It was very still, it

NEE

i
Se eT nent lioness tenner

'thing had ironed out
passed between them.! “Yes

She got up and pulling the tassel | it.”

“TheWorld isAll
Before Me’’

“But Peter, I can’t bear to have
you go down into those coal-mines,”
and his mother plucked the white
tablecloth, her fingers moving back
and forth with a monotonous regularity.

He thought, “When will I ever be
used to eating at this hour? Five
o’clock in the morning. Five o’clock.”
His eyelids were stinging with sleep;
his throat closed against the food.
“I can’t bear it either. My hands,
My hands.” But he said nothing.

He hadn’t been able to go to ecollege with the other boys.

“I can’t bear it, do you hear?
Peter. I can’t. I can’t Your music.
On my dear.”

He looked at her and the hysteria
faded from her eyes. His eyes were
gentle yet firm; they calmed her.

He had learned to calm himself,

He had been in his last year of
High School when the word depression became something more than a
mere conversational topic. No college for him that fall, but he had
waited, confident that next year —
but next year and next year and
next year. They piled on him. Now
he was twenty-two — and going to
work in the coal-mines.

He had tried everything. There
was ho purpose in his life.

“Well, I think [ll go now.” His
mother did not move. “Qh come,
now, Mother,’ and his laugh was
suprisingly merry, “it’s not as bad
as that. Think how well I’ll be able
to shovel coal for you.”

‘She understood and smiled, “Hurry then, and be sure you wash yourself before you come in my sight
again.’

His bulwark was cheerfulness.

He had many funny stories to tell
that night at dinner, but his: hands
were shaking and the grey-dust had
crept in his finger-nails. He had
given all his lunch away—he had to
— they didn’t have enough — they
knew that he could eat when he went
home and he couldn’t stand their
eyes. Nor could he stand the way
they grabbed the food — But that
wasn’t all — he could stay at his
parents’ home; they couldn’t send
him to college, but he could live with
them. He could keep his sanity,
but what about those men ? They
had no redeeming contrast. They
didn’t realize, but he did. He must
make them realize.

Nancy called him up and _ said,
“Well, how’s my coal-miner today ?”
He had an impulse to tell her all
that was in his mind, but he restrained it, remembering a similar
occasion before and her hurt childish
look, her remark “You shut me out
When you talk like that.” He
theught “It’s funny I have still these
impulses towards her, when I know
She doesn’t understand.”

“You’re coming up for bridge tonight, aren’t you? Jean and Tom
are coming, remember ?”

“Oh, Nance, I’m awfully tired—”
and then he thought, “There yo
again, trying to make her the way
you want her to be—you must take
her as she is or not at all. You’ve
tried before.” His brain had an extraordinary fluency tonight; everybefore him.
» Pm coming. I wouldn’t miss

And her sigh of relief repaid him.

He was very gay that evening. He
teased and joked and it seemed as
if he could not Stop smiling. He
played and sang for them; Nancy’s
pretty childish face glowed, This

was the way she liked him — her
Peter,

didn’t move or anything. J
it Should be sent to the S.
it’s nearly dead now.’

“I looked at its collar.
Silver collar, with Timothy
on it, beautiful] engraving, too. I
thought it would be nice for my cat
So I slipped it off, as the cat was “
most dead anyway. Although it did
purr, I remember, when I touched

ack said
P.C. “but

It was a
engraved

was still there righ
right front wheel
“Jack felt that

t in line with the

of the car.

way too, because

mes I said, ‘It’s nearly dead any
way, he nodded and Starting the
(Continued on Page Four)

 
  
   
     
 

 

 
 
 
 
   

a Pk

L ¥
- 4
7 fg
H,

  
 

‘yet

 

—* 2

‘Sketches of

——
3 od :

   

 

our contributors by an
outsider.

Charles Manning is the Cassanova

of the campus. Tall, dark and interesting, girls fight over him; home
town girls contribute chickens and
‘chocolate cakes while the Halifax
girls give him so many invitations
to dinner that he choses not between girls but mother’s cooking;
he is the only man to- regularly
erash Shirreff Hall for meals and
there his advice on debating matters
covers up his gourmandic capacity.
Born diplomat, he believes in not
letting his right hand girl know
what the left hand one is doing; he
never gets his dates twisted and can
squirm out of any situation. In his
spare time, he contributes news items
to the Gazette.

Cassanova Charlie is the only
graduating lawyer who won’t have
to starve for ten years.

* ES 4

Leonard Kitz contributes news
and opinions to the Gazette when
he isn’t too lazy. Once under way,
he is a go-getter, enthusiastically
mounting obstacles. He enjoys getting around, especially in company
with a pretty girl, of which sex he
is a competent judge. Interested in

economic questions, sport and sen
 

sational medication, Len shows
spasmodic interest in first year law.
* * *

Merel Purtil is the Gazette’s offi- |
cial Society Editor, which means
she makes a weekly trip to the Hall
which with the gossip she gets from
sorority, makes a half-column of
embarrassment for the often inno-}
cent victims.
one on the campus, even Cassonova
Charlie, and has developed the femjnine trick of carrying on a

- conversation while thinking of some
thing else to a perfection, covering
up minor breaks with an opening of
big eyes and a sweep of long lashes.

Merle is an expert on man-stalking

and is now reported, in view of approaching graduation in law, to be
getting to windward of one of the
professors. She’ll never need to
practice law from an office. Merle
got Canada-wide publicity when

She can out-talk any- |

 

 

abet lawyers made her their
football manager.

* cd *
J. Harrison Cleveland is the heavy
artillery of the Gazette army.

Graduate with honours in latin, lecturer of the damned stuff to unwilling freshmen, he turns out delightful essays on unexpected topics.
Believing that the night was made
for work, he is the only student in
Dalhousie who can sit in a front
bench and sleep without reprimand
from his professors. Running Kings
and debating keep him fairly busy
but when he does step out, he has
the novel idea of selecting a number of recommendations and picking
the final lucky girl by lottery.
Chief Tory whip for the Mock Parliament, Harrison will be one of the
top men in the graduating law
class.
* * *

Elisabeth Ballem, Literary Editor,
is the co-ed who made history with
the all co-ed issue. She was ex
|tremely annoyed when she learned

|afterwards the regular editors had
had all regular contributions in—a
distinct reflection on the co-eds and
‘their ability, she said emphatically.
'Distinetive short stories are her con‘tributions to the Gazette but she has
‘never submitted the poems she is
‘suspected of writing since an editor
| of former years spurned her favourlite. In her spare time she works at
English classes, toys with more stories and converses with Kay Finlayson, her boon companion. “Dib” can
lecture any man into submission,
even editors, but is embarassed when
she blushes. She will graduate in
Arts this spring.

Robert Batt is one of the least
known and cleverest writers on the
staff, his editorial comments on the
week’s news being consistently well
done. Not forward in private life,
the satire and cynicism of his ““Something To Think About” has spared
neither Students’ Council, statesmen,
professors or Dixie Pelluet. The ef
'fective Speaking and Round Table

clubs allow him to blow off other
excess steam on favourite economic

 

WHEN YOU CALL TO SEE
YOUR GIRL AND YOU FIND >
SOME CHAP HAS “BEAT

YOU TO IT’.

PRIVATE LIVES OF|
E GAZETTE STAFF

   
 

  

Take Your

Mepicine

SWAN SONG——

We never for a moment regretted
forsaking our column space last
week for that fine article which appeared in its place. “A Tribute” by
I. R. G. was in our estimation the
finest article written this year for
the Gazette and our opinion was
firmly substantiated by members of
the faculty and student body.

With exams rapidly approaching,
the days becoming longer and the
nights becoming much too short for
our needs, we pause a moment to
look upon this year’s activities.

-) + 2%

The work of the staff of the medical journal and the attitude of the
student body toward it is to be commended. Through the conscientious
efforts of the editors, and student
contributors, there will appear, some
time next week, the first issue of
that publication of which Dalhousie
will be proud. Early subscriptions
will do much to relieve the deficit
under which the business manager
and his staff are laboring. T. Y. M.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

by Eddie Cantor on the Chase and
Sanborn hour, Sunday, Feb. 4, 1934
at 8.30 p.m.

That my friend you may regard as

you wish.

* +

Speaking of pnus, who was the
freshman who, in entering upon the
study of the Embryology of the pig,
said, ““‘We go from the realm of embryology to that of hambryology.”

* * *

And then there’s the goitre patient
who was overheard saying, “I’m Thyroid of it all.”

ae  &

We nominate for election to the
fog club, Neil Posner, who at 12.15
asked Dr. McClure, “Will this class
be held betweeen 12 and 1 or at this
hour.”

Many and varied have been the
activities of our student body in the
past year. A few of these we mention as a reminder of the year just
coming to a close.

It happened in the school year
1935-36.

Athletics
The clean sweep made at Field
Day is still alive in our memories.
All our interfaculty teams were hard

[three young men(?)] emphatically ; fighting and successful. Our hockey

endorses the plan which would add |

team has reached the finals and we

one dollar to next year’s tuition in}have no doubt but that it will win
payment for the three ensuing issues | the championship.

of the Medical Journal.

Orchids are in order for those nonmedical supporters of the Publication among whom are the Dents and
Pre-meds who subscribed, and Doctors Hayes and Pelluet for their cooperation with the circulation department.

f * *

We note quite a DRAFT from our
enGINerring Colleague. Couldn’t it
possibly have its source in professional jealousy?

Now that you’re asking for it we
are going to plague your eyes. That
gag about bagging tigers was used
ta ace

subjects. The rest of his time is
taken up with the doctrine of
cypress and the rule in Shelley’s case,
which means he will be very close to
the top of the lists when he graduates in law this spring.

x *

C. W. D. “Wally” Rowlings tired of
the business side of the Gazette, a
post he held last year, so he decided
to improve the editorial with a little
wit and humour. Sworn in by the
editors, his Winchell column failed to
appear only when Merle Purtil had
no gossip to spare. Scoops for the

year included exposing fraternity |

rushing methods, inside tales on the
dances and Henry Ross’ love life.
Otherwise, he contented himself with
taking chips off Gorge Thompson,
Murray Rankine, Sherriff Hall and
the Halifax Mail. He is another of
the army of lawyers who go out to
prey on the public this year.
e  s

Edith Blair is a pretty blond co-ed
who spent a year at Queen’s under
the auspices of the N.E.C.U.S. and
has been trying to elevate Dalhousie
ever since. Denouncing sororities is
her usual pastime but she will admit
fraternities are useful to the extent
of their parties. She contributed
news to the Gazette and was an assistant in the co-ed issue but was
secretly displeased when her hometown newspaper failed to take proper
notice. Edith is a final year student
in Arts.

Ian MacKeigan is better known as
lanky blond who guides the destinies of the basketball squad but he
has been an irregular contributor.
Last year he racked his brain for
serious criticisms of the University
which he gave up when he found
nobody reading or paying attention
to them. This year, he took to
throwing mud but quit in disgust
when he couldn’t compete with the
other earthly experts. Main interest
is studying economic trends but
manages to keep up his work in
second year law.

8 HS &

Then there is that notorious character T.Y.M. aptly mamed by the
engineers as “This Year’s Monstosity”’. Walter Winchell

|

has

Social Hightlights

The dance, although poorly attended, proved to be one of the finest of
the year’s functions.

The banquet undoubtedly will long
be remembered by the large crowd
present.

The societies meetings, especially
the social evenings which they presented, proved not only instructive,
but highly enjoyable.

Literary Achievements

T. Y. M. and the Sports’ Editor
have shown, we think, that medical
students can hold their own in
Gazette competition. The Journal,
we predict, will demonstrate even
more — an innate ability in things
literary on the part of medical men.

Hightlight of the Year

Bill Embree, the Amherst lover,
proved one thing at least. Women
He

teach us to take our medicine.
took it like a man.

The prize squabble was between
one of your columnists and a young
Flood. You needn’t ask who won.

“Toothsome Topics” and “To the
Co-eds” lasted exactly three issues

Geta
eae

Thrill!

Page Three

 

Aa

2 C “The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —Lancet

mi

after they had shown the poor judgment of attacking T. Y. M.

Enid Johnson returns from Indiana
to Spurr us on to finer things.

Third upper molar yet unrecovered. We still have hopes.

Dr. Cruickshank became Regius
Professor in Physiology at Aberdeen
University.

Zanderer and Donahue still checking up on their weights at the Public
Health Center.

Romances That Just Have to be
Mentioned.

 

Lois Morrison—Monk Smith.
Tripple threat z-man—Simms and
Lulu Belle of Wash Tubbs fame.

Helen Spurr and a fraternity pin.
Roman no longer—wedded bliss now
for; Dinny Gilis, Eldon Eagles, Harry Wilson.

ik. es

T. Y. M. has enjoyed representing
you on the Gazette staff. We appreciate the cooperation you have so
freely given. And so until next year
we still our pen. Good fortune to
one and all in the coming exams is

Del Wallace—Bob MacLellan. sk esha
Fran Martel—George Murphy. e sincere wish of your columnists.

CASINO

STARTING SATURDAY

 

 

 

NOW MARCH 14th
One eee _ » Shorts Screen’s Greatest Air Drama!

Features 3.05. Evg. 7 - 9

Samuel Goldwyn presents

Eddie
CANTOR

in

CEILING
ZERO

with
JAMES CAGNEY
__PAT-O'BRIEN
“STRIKE ME PINK” Mickey Mouse Cartoon

i New Metro News

 

 

 

Y ou Are Assured Correct Fit
in

EATON

TAILORED

Because every suit is cut by hand to
your personal measurements.

 

mount.

 

plimentary fit.

It’s not too early to order now for Easter.

Come in and see the fine
all-wool and fancy check
in from noted British

Choose one you like, be carefully measured
and have the cloth tailor

ing shops to a style that is becoming to your

figure.

EATON Tailored Clothes may be
purchased on Budget Plan Terms

if desired.

| 22.50

And “Fit” in clothes, you’ll agree is paraOur cutters and tailors are expert in
taking care of the little differences in build
that might interfere with a graceful, com
We'll be glad to advise you.

 
 
 

CLOTHES ¢;

range of new Spring
fabrics that are just
and domestic mills.

ed in our own tailor
 

 

deeply deeply—to save his neck—
deeply—to save his neck—possibly

his face he has written incognito!
eo ee

also 27.50 and 35.00

Eaton’s Main Floor

&T EATON CO

MARITIMES LIMITED

 

nothing on this columnist—he =
|

cal.

THE BEST
‘MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

   

And the sport’s editor “hypo”
Dubilier, that cutting figure on the
basketball floor and in the anatomy
lab. . However, he and his staff,
Edgar Stewart have done a commendable job.

+
Ae Ro

¥
4
a
=

 

a. i

 
 
 
  
 
    
   
     

e as is

; AS? ome ‘4
rita

id

   

=

 

 

 

pie ih

_— woltie,

me

a sensational comback to the take

_ this league will be kept up inasmuch

and Stein with 8 were outstanding
of the attack with Pat Gunter who pions scored almost at will.

the boys from Forrest.

The Dalhousie co-eds won their

- Basketball League when they gained|the court most of the time.

      
   
  

F wv. oe
I _ ~'

. ae»
a ,
Ss
~ S

¥ ee, a r
“ s - 1
f r a
ES ; “ we Ps ey i.
=z a ae” he
— a i
4 a i
' ‘ Ss
4 : Py i
" vy 7
= = —_—
- a aE _ ba =
- A H

/INS AND LOSSES

No, 1 Team Wine Ping Pons

——
sel

7t,
s
at
+
J

 

o.
“as

the Studley gymnasium. The home
sextet started the game at a fast
city clip and led by some sharpshooting

‘the opening match of the
.e pong league the Dalhousie first by Isabel Fraser led the Mounties 9
me, 'to 1 at the end of the first quarter of

emerged victorious over Waeg- | :
play. The visitors seemed unable to

winning 5 11 matches to 1. The
. find their bearings on the large playing surface and although their play

feature match of the evening was
between Babe Stewart of the Waeg}!
improved as the game went on they
were unable to cut down the early

and Gilbert Lhev of the Dal team.
‘lead of the homesters, being on the

Being on the short end of a 20-14

score in» ‘st game, Lehv stages
fe an he Gast § P the short end of a 13-6 score at the
halfway mark.

         
 
   
 

 
 

 

the game by a 26-24 score and go on
to win the second 21-17. Karl Gar-| phe game was featured by the acten won the only match of the eve-\ wyrate shooting of Isabel Fraser,
ning’s play for the visitors when, | Dalhousie jumping centre, who scorafter dropping the first game, he | ed 18 of the winners 21 points, Dot
came back to take the next two from Dobson adding the other 3, and also
Henry Reardon. The play was far by the better-than-average foul
more even than the scores indicate | shooting of the visitors who made 9
with 8 matches going the limit and 54+ of 14 awards, with Miss Stevens
all the others very close. The other! contributing 7 in 9 attempts. The
scheduled match, that between the jome team, in customary Dalhousie
Y.M.C.A. and Dal’s No. 2 team to be style, was very poor in this departplayed on the former’s tables, WaS| ment registering only 3 in 13 atpostponed, It is to be hoped that tempts.

 

as ping pong is rapidly developing
into the most popular of college
recreations.

Cubs Lose to League Champions

The Dalhousie Cubs lost their last
scheduled game in the Intermediate
League when the Y.M.C.A. quintette,

Freshmen lost two games in the newly-crowned league champions,
interfaculty basketball league last gained a 39-21 verdict over them on
week and with them their chances of ; Thursday, March Sth, at the Studley)
b eing triple interfaculty winners. gymnasium. The home team was
Dentistry, who have yet to lose a without the services of “Rusty”
game, consolidated their first place Baird, tall centre and key-man of
position when they won a 20-14 ver- their attack, and played in a disordict from the yearling quintette on ganized fashion throughout.
Wednesday March 4th, and a last} The Association, on the other hand,
hopes of Coach Mit Musgrave S PrO-| were up to their usual form and were
Pad sel aula :  . easily the better team. Simmonds

e started the scoring af i
by 21-13 count the following day.| of play ee the ee ag
bes — er av ao ened dangerously, being 9 points beoth contests and although outplaye@ |hind the visitors at halftime. Leo
never stopped trying. Logie and Simmonds, Association guard, was
Hart led the yearling offensive| playing smart ball during this period

against the dentists each scoring 4| and scored 10 of his team’s 24 point
points while Leibowitz with 7 points points.

 

Frosh Hoopsters Lose Twice

Coming out for the second period
for the winners. Against the lawyers|the homesters instead of improving
Archie MacKenzie bore the burden|Seemed to get worse and the chamThe
scored 9 points as the mainstay of|Cubs fought hard throughout the
session but were greatly hampered
by their inability to get rebounds off
_._{their_own-backboard, which was owing to their lack of a tall man, so
wa that except for sudden rushes up the
first game in the Intercollegiate | floor the play was in the Dal end of
Leo
a 21-15 decision over the Mt. Allison|Simmonds was high scorer of the
co-eds on Saturday, March 7th, at|game with 10 points all made in the
———___—_——_—_—__-————— _ | first period, and was closely followed
by his teammates Lorway and Robinson, while Ed Stewart with 7 points
and Babe DuBilier with 6 led the
scoring for the losers,
The Line-ups:

 

 

 

|...coming up...

al,

2,

 

Photographers to

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing
Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

BUCKINGHAM

20 for20¢- 25 hr 25¢-50 hr 50¢
ICARETT ES

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B-6992

 

-”

 

BLURRED VISION—

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

or “unfortunate hangover”.

This article is not an attempt to
whitewash any deplorable social situation. It is on the contrary an
attempt to expose and bring into the
clear healthy light of day the halffelt and half-thought opinion of a
number of persons today, especially
among students, who see certain
very unfortunate social situations at
too close a range and allow their
vision to remain distorted without
seeking to retire to a distance in
order to see facts in their true perspective and with their true colors.
When such a matter is considered in
a healthy clean atmosphere, many
of the natsinesses and degeneracies
disappear and the beauty of the
general form appears. The purpose
of education surely must include as
one of its primary objects such an
ability to size up a situation without prejudice or cant, without confusion of the essentials with the incidents, without generalization from
a few specific instances, and without |
hypocritical cynicism.

|

(Continued from Page Two)
spective, and scare headlines in
cheap newspapers fail to reveal this
aspect of marriage, while playing
up the unusual or infrequent departures from the normal course of
life, It is the primary purpose of
marriage, so recognized by English
law that there should be procreation
of children, and failure or inability
to accomplish this purpose destroys
ab initio the entire marriage relationship unless there is agreement
to do the contrary. Those persons
who enter into this relationship do
so wtih their eyes open, and, as has |
been already pointed out, the num-|
ber of marriages contracted merely
for the purpose of retaining ‘respectability’ and ensuring the legitimacy of the issue is so small as to
excite considerable comment in each
particular instance. Among most
persons there is a clear recognition
that marriage 1s an institution for
the purpose of bringing children
into the world, caring for them,
educating and training them, and
under such circumstances the birth
of a baby is a direct and premeditated result of a deliberate intention '

 

 

 

 

| TIMOTHY—

(Continued from Page Iwo)

car moved it aheod about two feet.
I felt the bump. Funny though 1|
didn’t mind. But I did not say anything to dad when he came out of |
no-decision exhibition. Both fighters the office. But naturally there’s lots |
fought a fast clean two round fight | of things I don’t tell dad about.” He |
and treated the spectators to a good| bent his head back and laughed with |
exhibition of the manly act of self-| the others. Proud of his scrapes due |
defence. to his recklessness in which he was |
In their annual battle the co-eds| usually unrivalled.

led by Isabel Fraser, defeated the} The beautiful girl with the gray
Eds by the one-sided score of 11to|}eyes did not laugh, A sad smile
1. The Alumnae showed a great} steadied the lips that almost tremlack of practice and could do noth-| bled.

ing against the smoother working} “You know,” he continued, “I still
Dal team.

have that Timothy collar somewhere,
The indoor hockey battle brought| saw it in some of my junk the other
the afternoon activities to a close,| day.”
and a fitting climax it was. Using| “How about that cocktail that you
ground hockey sticks, boxing gloves} promised us beautiful one?”
and anything else they could get} She turned her head and said,
their hands on both teams fought

listlessly, “Yes certainly,” and then
tooth and nail throughout the time| with sudden energy she held out her
allowed for this. After two over
hands and pleaded, urgently, “Would
time periods brought no score and

you give me Timothy’s collar?” A
Gordon Thompson was on the =

 

STUDLEY RETAINS—

(Continued from Page One)

moment of surprise and then they
of hysterics at this disruption of his

all laughed uproariously and looked
carefully laid program, the goalies| at one another appreciating the wit
were removed and the goals widen
of their lovely companion But they
ed with the result that Ed Cohn,; wondered why she ignored the boy
high scoring ice star of the Tigers,

who had given her such a marvelbatted the ball between the posts to! lous cue for her mimicry; and they
give Studley the game and with it

wondered why she lost interest in|
the much - coveted Munroe Day/the group until after he had left
Shield. |

for Europe

Frock and Frill Shoppe

GREEN LANTERN BUILDING—ROOM 11
Exclusive Models
ORDERS TAKEN FOR GRADUATION

Mrs. L. M. Barteaux
3 PRESTON ST.

STYLE for SALE

@ As you slip into your Tip Top suit or topcoat
—you instinctively feel here is an introduction
to style. Tip Top designers with a true touch of
talent have put valid style trends from here and
abroad into our clothes this year.

 

  

  
          

2 ——— eee

Have unrestricted selection from hundreds of
fine British woolens. Your garment will be handcut and tailored to your every personal whim in
style and fit. You'll feel confident in Tip Top
clothes — because you know they’re correct. One
famous price — always.

TIP TOP TAILORS

LIMITED é
TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

   

  

422 BARRINGTON STREET
HALIFAX, N.S.

a

and not merely an “afterthought” D.A.A.C. AWARDS—

   

(Continued from Page One)

1930-31
Football: Jack Buckley.
Hockey: ‘Jack Buckley.
Boxing: J. Glorioso.
1929-30
Football: Frank Wishart.
Basketball: Russ McLellan.
Track: Jim Muir.
1928-29
Football: Frank Wishart
Basketball: Russ McLellan.
1927-28

The names of Hal Connor, Doug.
Crease, Bob Barnstead, Hyman Magonet and George Thompson are not
included in the above survey because
they were presented with their Gold
“T)’s on a previous occasion, namely
their graduation from the Arts
School.

Kindly report any errors or ommissions to George Thompson, Eric
Mercer or Edward Barnhill.

 

 

WANTED

Students canvassers, both sexes,
take advance orders for new book

to shortly appear. “First Things

In The Maritime Provinces”, will

fill a long felt want. Authorita
tive, absorbingly interesting.
Phone B-2220

 

 
  

  

PLAIN OR
CORK TIP

ee

Maine

Friday, March 18th, 1936

 

“G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.
21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

 

 

 

 

Birks -
A watch must be accurate, durable, andbeautiful—

Birks see to all these
points and that the
price is advantageous
as well.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

COSTLIER MILDER TOBACCOS

 

Buy your Crested BRITISH CONSOLS at the Tuck Shop

 

—_

 

A Message to College Men

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a provision for the future, or contemplating the selling
of life insurance as a profession, you would do
well to consider the outstanding sixty-four year
record of The Mutual Life of Canada.

or our Home Office.

Communicate with our nearest Branch Manager

Mutual Life Assurance Company
of Canada

Established 1869.

Home Office—Waterloo, Ontario

 

 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
     
 
   
 
     
  
 
  
  

2, a
™~ o
PA Re ot

 
   

UNRESTRICTED CHOICE
OF BRITISH WOOLENS

‘2 4:75

Tailored to Your Measure

  
  

 
