  

VOL.

  
   
 

—,

a ih

 

 

 

I.

 

 

 

Exhibition Basketball Game

Should Prov

On Jan. 16, the Dal basketball
team will entertain the Acadia Boys’
Club, recognized as the strongest
team in the state of Maine. In regard to the members of this team,
the Bar Harbor Buicks have the
finest collection of players in the
state. Durrell Allan, right guard,
is a clever passer and the best shot
on the team. Bill Webber, center!
and soutuhpaw, claims, any night
that he does not get eight baskets
he gives ten dollars to the Red
Cross. Jim Dickinson, forward, a
former Dartmouth star, is a constant scoring threat and _ bulletpasser. Henry Smith, left guard, is
a rangy and invaluable asset to the
team. The Bar Harbor team has

 

_ just beaten the Woodstock team by

a big margin.
Any interested basketball enthusi
ast can readily visualize a fast skir
™s

‘7

Kee
v7)

.

mish on the sixteenth. Mr. Stirling

_ has given considerable time to the
team and promises that the Bar|

Harbor game won’t be a set-up for
the visitors. Dalhousie will be
starting with an advantage in that
the game is at home on our large
court,

Basketball for 1936 has undergone
several changes in order to speed
up the game. A new three second
rule in the offensive foul circle has
done away with the frequently used
pivot play. Another blistering rule
pertains to a point-make after a personal foul shot; the ball to be taken
by the opposite team as an outside
ball rather than a toss-up from
center.

Basketball has taken a new hold
on sport fans. The alert officials

are always keenly scrutinizing plays |

and games, trying to alter any retarding influence, so that faster and
smarter ball will be played. Basketball is no longer a dead sport.

Manager MacKeigan has done
everything in his power to provide
a thrilling evening for Dal fans. By
popular demand there will be dancing before the game, between halves
and after the game. Every effort
will be made to entertain you.

It is expected that the surge of
enthusiasm, ubiquitous all of the
first part of the school session, will
disclose itself.

The Dal team will comprise Lanky

_ “Mit” Musgrave, Teddy and Doug

   
 
   
 
 

*
. ‘
7

Crease, Tokash, Green, Serlin, Shainhouse, Miller, Dubilier, McLeod and
Cook, the last three being members
of both squads tentatively.

The intermediate team plays their
first game Saturday, Jan. 18th, at
the sO er

 

Headmasters Stay
At Shirreff Hall

The inner confines of Shirreff Hall,

 

hitherto the sanctum sanctorum of

Dalhousie .co-eds, was invaded for

e peprhaps the first time by those of
_ the opposite sex, when the Nova

Scotia Headmasters’ Association held
their sixth annual meeting at Dalhousie, the guests of the University.
‘he out-of-town members were

  
 

e Interesting

Motion Pictures
At Gymnasium

Motion pictures, showing the
climbing of Mount Logan, and
hunting dynosaurs in Alberta, will
be shown in the Chemistry theatre next Tuesday, when the
Dawson Geololgical Club holds its
first meeting of the season. Everyone is invited and the admis
sion is free. The meeting begins
at eight p.m.

 

Head of Physiology
Dept. Announced

 

President Stanley announced this
week that Dr. C. B. Weld has been

appointed as professor of physiology

to succeed Dr. Cruickshanks, who
has been made regius professor of
physiology in the University of Aberdeen as successor to the late Dr.
J. J. R. Macleod.

Dr. Weld is 37 years of age, was
born in Vancouver of English parentage and was educated in the University of British Columbia, from
which he obtained the degrees of
B.A. and M.A. for work in Bacteriology. He served overseas during
the last three years of the war.
Later, working for his Master’s degree, he was a technical assistant in
laboratories of the Vancouver General Hospital and was there discovered by Dean Fitzgerald of the Medical Faculty of the University of
Toronto, who made him assistant in
the famous Connaught Laboratories.

His work caught the attention of
the biological board of Canada and
during the summers of 1926 and
1927 he carried on researches in the
Fisheries Experimental Station, Halifax. Though busily engaged in the
Connaught Laboratories and _hospitals he pursued his medical course
in the University of Toronto and
graduated in the shortest possible
period with the faculty’s_ silver
medal.

After an interneship in the Toronto General Hospital he was at once
appointed as part time research associate in the department of physiology of the university, where he
became assistant professor. He has
been in general medical practice for
the last five years in Toronto, and
during the same period has been
consultant physiologist in the Hospital for Sick Children. In 1933 he
won the Starr Gold Medal, which is
the highest award in the University
of Toronto, for post-graduate study
in anatomy, physiology, and pathology. For some years past Dr. Weld
has contributed voluminously to
Canadian, British and American scientific publications.

 

The Newman Club

The Newman Club will resum
regular monthly meetings at the
Knights of Columbus Hall, Sunday,
January 12th, at 11 a.m.

 

  

 

—_—_—_

HALIFAX, N. 8., JANUARY 10, 1936

—

Tigers to Meet U.

 

 

Sonera al ah i ek os ee ena

ARRANGEMENTS COMPLETED FOR 1936 “PHAROS’

azette

Yi PEE. Sh A.”

 

be ae ~

 

UUUYAQUOUNES0 000000 0S000 SND EN

Attend
The
Millionaires

Ball
(advt.)

    
 
 

NQVOUOOUQIQI0COUECUNUONEUEUEDU OLN

 

 

No. il

 

 

S. Basketeers

 

New Scholarships

With the announcement of the
Exchange Scholarships for 1936-37,
a limited number of students at Dalhousie have the opportunity of obtaining a year’s scholarship at some
other Canadian university. These
scholarships, which are sponsored by
the National Federation of Canadian
University Students, enable students
to study at an “exchange” university
for one year without paying tuition
fees of students’ union fees. The
N. F. C. U.S. representative on this
campus is George C. Thompson, and
can obtain

 

prospective applicants
full details from him.
The Exchange of Undergraduates
Plan was initiated about seven years
ago by the executive of the N. F. C.
U. S., and came into operation six
years ago after the presidents, registrars and financial authorities of
the Canadian universities had given
their consent. Under the plan the

universities are divided into four

NF CUS Presents

groups—the University of British}

Columbia, the universities of the
Prairie Provinces, the universities of

sities of the Maritimes.
Scholarships may be awarded only
where a student of one university
wishes to obtain a scholarship at a
university in a different “division”.
This is subject to one exception—
Ontario students may apply for
scholarships to French-Canadian universities in Quebec for the purpose
of taking special studies in the
French language and vice versa.
Any student, male or female, may
(Continued on Page Four)

StudentC hristian
Delegates Return
From Conference

 

Six Dalhuosie students have returned from the Twelfth Quadrennial Convention of the Student
Volunteer Movement which was
‘held at Indianapolis from December
|28 through January 1.
ray,
the Medical School, and Roy Webster, student of theology at Pine
Hill, represented the local Student
Volunteer Movement.
and Earle Fraser, Arts Students,

Movement.

The total registration at this convention was 2,765, 275 of these being from Canadian colleges. Besides
representatives from Canadian and
American colleges, though included
in the total registration, were Outof-College delegates, Mission Board
Secretaries and Furloughed Missionaries. The largest delegation from
,any college consisted of 90 from the
University of Toronto. Sixteen
‘representatives were sent from the
Maritime Provinces by Dalhousie,
Acadia, Mount Allison and the University of New Brunswick.

William Temple, Archbishop of
York “recognized widely as one of
the foremost Christian statesman in
the world today”, was the chief
speaker. Among the many other
eminent speakers were Reinhold Nubuhr, Professor of applied Christianity at Union Theological Seminary, New York; T. L. Koo, who
made such a favourable impression

(Continued on Page Three)

CE sya sete

 

Prominent Commentator
Talks at Dal Gymnasiu

 

The ordeal which is sure to confront the governments of the free
peoples throughout the world, due

to the narrowing down of free governments by pressure from the out
Ontario and Quebec, and the universide Fascist world, will put these

governments in a precarious state.

This was the statement of S. K.
Ratcliffe, correspondent to the London Spectator, and internationallyknown commentator, when he addressed a gathering at the Dalhousit University gymnasium this week.

The possibility of a Fascist attack in France and the belief
which the German people hold,
that they are undergoing a martyrdom, makes this situation even
more dangerous. And if the governments of British countries un
| der these conditions fall into the
hands of men schooled in the traditions of violence, instead of

were on Central Europe, and the

trouble came from Africa.
Mussolini’s policy, which he announced openly, however, clearly

Grace Mur-|
Enid Johnston, Helen Spurr, of |

Donald Robb |

represented the Student Christian

 

YEAR BOOK STAFF HAVE

SUCESSFUL M

  

Gazette Plans
Big Issue

   
  

    

   

If present plans materialize,
the Gazette willl publish a Birthday Literary Issue on the week
of Jan. 27th.

asked to contribute their literary

    
      

All students are

    

Material may be
the Gazette
staff, or mailed to the Gazette

efforts early.

    
 

handed to any of

 
 
  

office.

 
 

George Thompson
Back from Meeting

 

George Thompson, Dalhousie’s representative on the N.F.C.U.S. (National Confederation of Canadian
University Students’) Council, arrived home Sunday night from the
Biennial Conference of the N. F.C.
U.S., held at the Students’ Union
Building, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, December 26th, 27th
and 28th. The president, Mel Kenny, a graduate of Toronto University, the secretary-treasurer, and
Percy Davies, a graduate of the
University of Alberta, conducted the
meetings.

The officers’ report for the past
two years showed a considerable im
| provement in the general position of

the Federation, particularly when
compared with the difficult financial
position which the Federation found

cry jitself in following the promotion of

the Second Imperial Conference of
Students held in Canada in 1929,
The greatest obstacle to the development of and the focusing of
Canadian student opinion on matters
both of university interest and na
showed the imperialistic attitude of | tional interest still is the scattered

Italy, and the only direction in
which they could turn was Africa.
The situation then became tense
with war, and the world looked to
Britain and France to prevent a
major conflict.

The policies of Britain and
France gave new assurance to the
world, but the peace proposals of
Sir Samuel Hoare proved a world
sensation, the speaker said. His
resignation was inevitable, but Sir
Samuel could not have known the
hearts and consciences of the
British people which brought them
to the support of the collective
peace organization and the League
covenant.

STAND FOR PEACE,

British principles, what will the !

outcome be? Mr. Radcliffe raised
this question, and in answer gave
the assurance that there is some
principle and hope in the British
race that will be our only salvation.

FALSE OUTLOOK.

Tracing the outlook at the beginning of 1985, the speaker said the
eae events could have

nature of our university centres and
the expenses associated with overcoming these barriers.

The Council decided to continue
the measure of liasion it has maintained with the C. I. EB. (International Confederation of Students)
through correspondence and reports
of its various meetings, and to continue to place at the disposal of
CaCnadian students the International Student Identity Card which
the C. I. E. issues (with the approval of the League of Nations).

The Federation will foster the
work of the I. S. §., (International
Student Service) without entailing
any present financial burden. This
work at the present time is largely
in assisting and placing European

| students and professors in other uni
The peoples of Europe stand uni-|versities than those of their home
versally for peace, but so long as| country.

Mussolini can hold the confidence of

The interest of the Federation in

his people there is no hope of this.| student travel has been greatly cur
And although his armies in Abysinnia are not suceeding, the war is
still going on in violation of the
Covenant.

The policy and aims of Britain
must be restated in such a way as
to regain lost ground and convince

been| the outside world that Britain holds
clearly foreseen by instructed ob-| to

the collective peace system

servers, but the eyes of the worldthrough the League of Nations.

(Continued on Page Three)

NOTICE

There will be an important
Gazette Staff meeting at the
Gazette office on Tuesday, Jan.
14th, at noon. Members of the
staff are required to attend;
all others interested may do so.

 

EETING

On Tuesday, January 8th, the initial meeting of the yearbook was
held, and plans for an interesting
and well set-up “Pharos” were
crystallized, and work will com
 

|mence immediately to make the 1936
yearbook a complete chronicle of the

graduating classes of all faculties.
Those graduating are asked to cooperate with the Photographic Editor
and have their picture taken when
requested.
As the new year dawns, as well
as looking forward, and speculating

 

on what 1936 may bring forth in
the way of premier social activities,
one may also, in retrospect, review
the outstanding social events of the
year that has passed.

Senior Class Party
On Monday

The Senior Class comes to bat
with its first and last class party of
the current year. Our prospective
graduates, in a desperate endeavor
to raise funds and have a good time
doing it, present the time-worn
novelty, “Old Clothes Party”, to be
held in the lower gymnasium on
January 13th. Despite the fact that
the idea is slightly molded through
years of usage, the class executive
is to be commended on their foresight in enabling all of us to be
present wearing our own wardrobe.

The additional attractive price of
50¢c should bring forth all those who
have been bothering their fellows
with complaints of inability to afford hotel dances. Jerry Naugler’s
band will be in attendance and sandwiches will be supplied for all. Dunker Atwood will do up the coffee.
Campus talk indicates that a goodsized crowd will attend, as this is the
first party of 1936.

 

 

Badminton

 

The following statistical table

 

the story of Badminton up to
Christmas.
Date. Opponents. Won. Lost.
Oct. 25. Faculty-Alumni.. 5 28
Nov. 7. Faculty-Alumni.. 12 38
Novito. Me ©. BC... .... 8 23
NOW 26. MC. B Ooo oo. 10 +20
Dec. 5. Faculty-Alumni.. 9 29
Total wins and losses.. 44 133
(Continued on Page Four)
President Resumes
°
Greek Series

 

President Stariley resumed his
course of lectures on Greek institutions on Wednesday, January 8, and
will continue to give two lectures a
week, on Wednesday and Friday afternoons, at 5 p.m., for the next six
or eight weeks.

The subject he is dealing with at
present is “The Political Developments in Attica, beginning with the
Seventh Century, B. C.” These lelctures are given in the Psychics Theatre, the Science Building, and are
open to anyone who wishes to attend
them.

 
   

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  

 

; \ 4 é. vt er . pat * he ae atts : ar’, ; f | date ; DR" af
Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”
mr Printed by the Weeks Printing Co., Ltd., Halifax, N. S. eID
eee ait EDITORIAL STAFF é
4 | Editors
oe 2p ‘ IRVING PINK

 'B. 4148 “tne B. 2442
elt Se Managing News Editor

1 hn | JOHN TRACY

oe, a i ve ‘es
den xizz’ 9 ° SCOsCUEDITH BLAIR BILL SUTHERLAND

Society . Edito Literary Editor Sports Editor
_ MERLE PURTILL ELISABETH BALLEM BEN DuBILIER
| olan Staff Artist L. 3841
Ny Cc. F. BENTLEY
—F | dN Assistant
_ J. R. H. SUTHERLAND DOUGLAS CREASE

7" BL 5487 ) | B. 5737

THE BUDGET WORRY

FACH year every student hands into the coffers of the
~ £ Council of Students the sum of ten dollars. Although
the average student has nothing to say as to the expen diture of this money (nor does he seem to care), yet in the
"past he has been allowed to see how it is spent through the
medium of the Gazette, where the budget has been published. This year, however, the Council has decided that
the expense of publishing this budget is too great, and
therefore it was suggested that typed forms were to be
' placed in different sections of the campus. For the in--—- formation of the student it may be stated that the cost of
ublishing this record of receipts and expenditures would
3 fave been only about six cents per student. But be that
ie as it may, so far this year no budgets have appeared.
ae fv When it does make its appearance it will be so late that it
.. will not matter anyway. All the expenditures for the
present term will have been made and nobody will be able
to offer even suggestions regarding the mistakes of last
year.

This seems to be a rather anomolous situation. A
student forum might well ask the Council, “Why publish
or print a budget anyway?” The budget is over a year old

eS when we get it; all the money is gone; the old
he Council who spent that money have gone out of office; and
’ thus, outside of being of historical interest, the thing is
-—--- useless. This has been the custom for many years, how-——s ever. We wonder what the next student forum will have
to say about it. |

 

es i THE HOCKEY TEAM |
‘OR he past few years hockey has been at a low ebb at

     

 
    
   
 
  
 

eback. It will be impossible to do this unless every

a
ste

t lends his support.

:

e past season. The Dal fifteen had a fine com
    
 

  
   
 

    
    
 

  

a
Pe ae
te ‘

i

le — sbuae » AE

bination, but oj

-—s‘ the student body showed. They were well repaid for their

__ efforts and enthusiasm, for not only did our boys make a

fine showing in the league, but everybody had a good time

at every game. There was a certain feeling of pride

aroused in everyone as the students and alumni sat in the

bleachers together and cheered their team on to victory.

There is no reason why this same spirit should not be

shown at the hockey games. It is true, of course, that

these games must be played in the Forum, away from

Studley Campus, and, too, that due to the added expense

a small fee must be charged. The officials in charge, how
ever, are offering every inducement. If a sufficient num
ber of students desire to go to the games transportation

will be-provided, and, more than that, girl friends accompanied by their escorts will be admitted free.

| The first few games were played just before the

Rey on Christmas exams, and that may have been a valid excuse

ae for not attending. But now exams are only a di mspeck

Cot on the far horizon, so let us get behind our hockey team

Wi, and show them that we appreciate their attempts to bring

fame to our little college by the sea.

 
    
  

 
 
   
  
 

| cr

é
m

“tt

=
a :
i eee

  

2

 

=,
*

A

ae

. lt
iad

> 2 Ne a
te"
’ 5?

   
   
  

#
’

 
    
      
 

See
=e,

en

——
at iad

=~

: be ae A NEW TERM
“tbh, THs week marks the beginning of the second term of
Bor the college year. Vacation is over, the Gazette has
completed one half of the year’s work, this issue is the
; beginning of the second part. The last ten issues have
_———s&sWeen of a various nature, purely an experiment on our part
fe to try to discover the type of paper which pleased the
a greatest number of students. The criticism which we have
received has not been very drastic with the exception of
one or two striking instances, the result is that we do not
ee know where we stand, do you like the type of Gazette you
‘Sa are getting? It is printed with your money and the idea
behind it is that it is intended to appeal to you, if you will
ue not support it with your literary talents you can at least
¢: express an opinion on it. Interest in the Gazette seems
to have waned since the beginning of the year, the first
ten issues were written by no more than fifteen students
at the most, with the possible exception of the literary
fut! issue few students seem to have any ambition whatsoever
to have any of their talent brought to the fore, and if the
_~—~—s way they have been cco-operating with the Gazette is any
at indicia of their talent than we have a sorry lot of students
in Dalhousie, at least so far as literary ability is concerned.
There will be another literary issue the last week in
January, all copy for that issue must be submitted by

‘January 22nd. :

~The oceasion for the next issue will be the birthday of
____ the Dalhousie Gazette about which you will hear more in
the ensuing numbers of the paper. Start now, get your
_ thoughts together and let us all celebrate the sixty-seventh
___ birthday of the Gazette by putting out an issue of which
_ every University graduate may truly be proud and in____ ¢identally in showing these same graduates that there is
zood material in the old school today as there

—
es
=e

[
a

+
»

2 La

a ,*

_ f le A ri
a re 7

   

a

     

Dal, and this term those in charge are trying to stage
Football was a great success —

but more important was the excellent spirit that.

  

PROSPECTOR

_A SHORT STORY

It was a day in late autumn that
we started a survey of the big timber lands in prospect of the winter
lumbering. Olive and I felt childishly elated and guiltily superfluous
trailing behind those three great
men who in the rough and strangely
adaptable clothes of the true woodsman became one with the life of the
out-of-doors that was theirs. Their
great limbs swung rhythmically in
trousers bagging above their kneelength leather boots. Their shoulders
moved with the bends of the trail
even as harmoniously as the swaying branches moyed with the wind
as we passed by.

We girls, timidly and cautiously,
climbed over the fallen trees in our
way; slipped unexperienced on the
wrong rocks that made the path
across the swirling river; scrambled
up the gullys, breathlessly, bruising
our shins and conscious of the sweat
upon our faces soaking away the
carefully laid cosmetics that were
not necessary here.

It was in awe that we observed
Bill, our guide, striding with never
a slip, never a false movement of
his gaunt body, and never a look he
gave us, nor a word did he utter.
Long since we had removed our
jackets and sweaters, suffering
from the heat of our exertions. But
Bill removed none of his great
coats. He started out that morning
with them on and on they stayed
while he just kept striding.

We appreciated, Olive and I, the
apparent unawareness of our existence to the men. We became braver,
truer of step, and as we became accustomed to this strenuous exercise
which we had never known before,
we breathed the rich air of the
woods with the tangs of spruce and
fir and the dark green masses of
the bogs.

Bill, who was in the lead, halted
suddenly and said, pointing to the
left, “a moose.” But I saw nothing
excepting the yellow leaves of the
birches. We stood quietly, wondering, and two tiny spots of brown
that moved among the trees, grew
larger and became the velvet ears
of a cow which scrambled away a
short distance with a cry of warning and beckoning to the crookedlegged calf which had been sleeping
at her side. We watched them go
until the deep goods had swallowed
them. We continued our long climb
until the reached the summit of the
mountain, where we rested, looking
out over the great wooded valleys
that ran for miles beneath us.

I noticed the bubbling yellow sap
of the spruces. I leaned against
their rough bark and slouched more
contentedly than I ever had on an
upholstered chair. I watched with
simple amazement a red squirrel sitting on a fallen log of this virgin
forest holding a cone in his little
paws.

The prospectors were observing
silently the land before them, when
one said, quite seriously, “No, I
ain’t never seen no spruce in them
woods,” and with that we turned towards the trail by which we had
come. Every few yards Bill blazed
the trail, slicing off a portion of the
thick brown bark of the trees with
one strong stroke while the sap
flowed to heal the wound. At an
especially large tree which he had
blazed he paused, and handing to
Olive a knife, saife, said, “Cut your
names.” We did, forming our initials imperfectly with inexperienced
fingers.

And so, as the dusk fell the trail
came to an end. All too soon I
though, for I had become one with
the feelings of these silent men
whose only life was one of the woods,
where everything is so huge and
clean that one abandons petty
thoughts in shame. I envied them.

I met Bill the following spring on
the village street. To my surprise
he stopped and said, “The tree you
left your names on she pass through
the mill and I saw her into good
deal—good deal they were, eight by
four, eight by four.” He passed on.
I thought, prospectors are human
after all.

 

GAZETTE

LETTER
WRITING

“But what shall I write?” were
his last words as I sat back in the
day-coach and listened to the steady
rumble of the train getting under
way. What can anyone write nowadays?

“Time was,” interrupted my travelling companion, a jolly-looking old
man whose every action seemed to
express unbounded energy despite his
wine-cask shape, “time was when a
letter was an event. In those days
persons took pride in their letterwriting. Indeed, if I may be pardoned for a personal reference, I remember well when first I left home
how painstaking I was that every
sentence of my correspondence was
well-rounded, and nothing in its
punctuation left to chance. In those
days a letter meant something; in
fact, it meant a great deal. I felt
it would come under the closest
scrutiny, and probably be treasured
for long years to come. Today,”
and he seemed to be lost in painful
soliloquy, “I expect my letters, whenever I do think of their fate, to be
deposited in the nearest wastebasket.”

A long ride in a day-coach, amidst
fragrant oranges and crying babies,
gives ample time for thought. Surely
there must be some reason for this
state of affairs in the world of letterwriters. Across my mind flashed a
long-hidden thought: the printing
press was at once the greatest boon
and greatest curse of mankind; for
while it could be used to great advantage, it could be and was abused
to the great disadvantage of its
inventors. Perhaps then the greatest boon to letter-writing also spelt
its destruction: the penny post. Carlyle it was, I believe, who foretold
that the quality of letters would deteriorate when they could be sent
for almost nothing. That which is
obtained for little is valued at little.
The penny post which made letterwriting accessible to all, and increased the frequency with which
parties might communicate «with
each other, at the same time made
the individual letter of much less
importance,

A hurried page, seeking to convey the maximum of undigested information in a style or lack of it
to which we have become accustomed through our increasing use of the
telegraph, what more can one do?
Paragraphs, even sentences, have
little meaning. Surely, then, individuality of style and pride in form
can have no place. Instead of being
an end in itself, as my now snoring
travelling companion had once considered his letter to be, the present
day letter had become merely a
means of conveying certain data at
a certain rate of speed. The penny
post has undoubtedly brought about
a great change.

   
     

 

=

* * *

“On a vacation it would seem,” I
said to myself, as I noticed an extremely attractive yound lady board
the train and sit in the next seat. It
did not require a second glance to
satisfy me that she was a _ stenographer. She had that capable appearance, that air of being always
ready to undertake whatever might
be necessary calmly and unostentatiously, that poise and generally
well-groomed look about her which
immediately identified her. Suddenly
it came to my mind that she, too,
had done her share in destroying the
fine art of letter-writing. How
many times had her employer asked
her to write a letter “to this effect” ?
Thereupon he became little more
than a rubber stamp as far as any
originality or individuality was concerned.

That tendency to a stereotyped
form, the desire to eliminate all unnecessary verbiage, and the search
for conciseness at the expense of
smoothness had gradually infiltrated
into her personal letters, and also,
through her business correspondence,
had obtained great and increasing
influence upon many letter-writers
hither, thither, and yon. Destruction comes, they say, in beautiful
form; and the devil chooses the
finest workmen as his aides by perverting their achievements.

* ok *

Another blessing of these latter
days soon made its appearance as
Continued on Page Three)

Friday, January 10, 1936

 

23 POET’S CORNER &

   

Romance

Don’t stare, my eyes!

It is not a spectre in the gloom

But a handsome figure in the room
Looking at me. What can he surmise?
Don’t stare, my eyes!

Don’t turn, my eyes!

Though I know that he is coming near,
Watch the dancers whirl and disappear

Till he comes. Then meet him with surprise.
Don’t turn, my eyes!

Don’t fall, my eyes!

He is only asking me to dance;

Grant it with your most alluring glance;
Dance with him until the music dies.
Don’t fall, my eyes!

Don’t close, my eyes! .
Though his kisses rain upon my cheek

And my trembling lips refuse to speak,

Think! What story may I improvise?

Don’t close, my eyes!

Don’t weep, my eyes!

You were always calling Love to you;
Now you’ve seen what summoning can do:
Brought a satyr in a lover’s quise.

Don’t weep, my eyes!

Don’t look, my eyes!

Don’t watch my latest lover go his way.

! will forget again and gentl y says:

‘My heart and I some day will compromise,”’
Don’t look, my eyes!

 

 

 

| SOMETHING TO _
THINK ABOUT

A Law student of 15, in mellow
mood, reminiscences that during the
dead-hour between 9 and 11 o’clock
classes the future legal lights of
that day were wont to repair to a
Rottenberg street tavern, whence
they returned to class and Benjy
Russell’s benevolent tutelage, in
various degrees of illumination. It
is not our present purpose to seek
here the cause of that enlightenment which they subsequently diffused upon difficult problems of
State and jurisprudence to the increasing brightening of Dalhousie’s
fame, but to muse upon the vagaries
of human morals and to exclaim in
wonderment, O tempora! O mores!

 
    

ture events, that of Mr. Ratcliffe’s
seems to be founded on a better understanding of the forces motivating a dictator. Perhaps Professor
Zimmern’s tour is being taken with
a view of stirring the Americans,
accused by Italy of out-sanctioning
the. sanctionists, to yet greater
deeds; or perhaps to force, through
public opinion, neutrality-loving Congress to renew the President’s authority, which expires next month,
of penalizing belligerent nations.
tk 2 a

Conversation with a downtown retailer elicited a feeling of resentment against the Dalhousie store.

_ Many of the Halifax merchants beoday the mere mention of student | lieve that the tax-free University

beer evokes a frenzied protest from| should not go out of its sphere to
the N. S. T. S. and astonished gasps |compete commercially with them
from our virginal and unsophisti-|particularly in depression dimes
cated press, yet modern maids ca-| when most of them are hard-hit
vort on beach and tennis court in financially. Not only must they pa
such cunningly emphasized nudity | taxes with which the Univernieg i
as _ would have caused the beer-|not burdened, but they have a

stained moustaches of war-time Dal-|items of overhead, including cag
housians to rise in horror. But to| Books and other goods are offered
a realist it is a sad commentary |on more advantageous terms by th
on the intelligence of women that wholesalers to the Dal store than =
they do not recognize the insult|the retailers, A thought of partic

dealt their charms by the arbitors | lar irony to this retailer was ‘int
of our morals who in effect hold} over a period of years he has :
that a flowing mug of amber ale ex-| tributed $2500 to ‘Dalhousie ice
erts a headier and more potent temp- ee le

tation upon the young man than :

rounded expanse of silken limb.
BS * CS

Hitler has announced that during
1936 Germany will greatly increase

her air force i
} +» Particularly the maLast week Professor Zimmern,'!rine branch. His justification was

holder of the chair of International | that England, in assenting to G

Relations at Oxford, hit an optimis-,man violation of the nayal cl tic note in his introductory speech|of the Versailles Treaty kee aoe
to the American people on the ef- pliedly assented to violation ea
ficacy of sanctions against Italy.|air clauses. The probable Sel as
Stating that with increasing pres-|tion of England’s acquiesce he
sure Il Duce must soon capitulate, ,the naval Violations is Bats c a.
Zimmern’s whole attitude was one|dent of her navy’s power Sy dete d
of reassurance to the Americans and | her by water but fearful of : a
of a firm belief in the attainment attack, she had hoped G ae
by pacific means of a victory for the| would exhaust her viebiick Gar 4
League of Nations and future world creasing her navy. Immediat ty: din
peace. But on Monday night S. K.| British ambassador in Berlin; :
Radcliffe, speaking at the Dal gym,/gested an international air ee?
foresaw in the very success of sanc-| ment reduction pact to Hitler, but
tions a threat to world peace. He! was emphatically refused. L ‘2 e
feared that Mussolini, to restore his | German War Office iatiianeeal x
prestige necessary in the eyes of his Possibility of an air pact with G ‘
restless and discouraged people may | Britain alone. The proposal ji nee
be driven to some desperate and|example of the strategy adtiaheal

spectacular act which will plunge | Hitler’ : :
ge | Hitler’s Me Shar My:
Europe into war. in Kampf—the driving of

Of the two interpretations of fu
 

 

France as a prelude to war,

a wedge between Great Britain and

 

+
‘

i

ber
  
  
  
   

  

 

 

oe

a *
*
ww

| ~~ ~And so we go into another year—
a and. the mention of New Year’s
brings to mind such things as reso-_Jutions. We suppose that there are
____ still some people who prepare a list
_ . of those things which they will or
| ~—_—-won’t do during the year. Why they
* should be so optimistic about their
ability to carry out these resolutions
is something that we cannot quite
‘ understand unless they are still unBs der the pleasant influence of the fes| tive season. We admire their determination to change their ways. Now
ee that these intentions have evaporate ed, as speedily as lemon pie at a
small boys’ party, we say never
 - mind—for are not resolutions made
3 to be broken!
| As for ourselves, if we made any
plans for personal reformation, we
1 know that we would be in the same
| situation, viz., our good intentions
i; would be no more. However, we
wouldn’t feel very sad about the
matter, because we have the habit of
rationalizing our doubtful actions.
Why says that Psychology hasn’t
one practical use—at least we don’t
feel very remorseful!
h ay ee

a = S

-_ |

| And now that we have sermonized
, for a few sentences or so, we will up
'—s and confess that we made one New
Year’s resolution: We resolved that
we would not make any New Year’s
resolutions.
* * ae

Even if the people in those South
American republics don’t make New
Year’s resolutions, we suspect that
they plan for New Year’s revolu
tions.

yo ee ee

iy vi ‘During last term we read in the
) Gazette the usual comment about

re hotel dances and its naughty inci
‘

™

S THE

ao ty
‘oa J $
er.
ol ‘
ay
- 7
a

i

The PRATTLER

 

  

dents. Personally, we think that the
naughtiness of such affairs is but
the result of the apt working of

some vivid imaginations. We were
about to say that these scandalous
reports were the product of good
imaginations, but such imaginations
could hardly be described as “good”.
To us it seems that some people
make the mistake of‘spelling a hotel
bedroom with an “a”.

eae ne

Now that the exam results are out,
we suspect that some persons are experiencing a similar sensation to
that experienced on New /Year’s
morning, say about :7.30 am. Of
course, if they followed the advice
of those imploring radio announcers
who are always giving us advice on
how to keep or get well, this would
not be true.

* * *

In this age of dramatized advertising and continual repetition we
thought that the use of all highly
featured products had been successfully driven home. Perhaps the
trouble is that the advertising fraternity have made an unreasonable
assumption. This comment has been
caused by a little story which we

whom we know in a nodding sort of
way. The little lady was glancing
through a popular magazine; she
paused at the advertisement of a
well-known anti-freeze. She read
the text; she looked puzzled; then
she asked a friend: “Do they use
this anti-freeze in place of gasoline
or do they just pour it in the gas
tank and let it mix?”
* * h

Typographical errors often have

‘unexpected results, but they don’t
occur at unexpected times. To prove

our contention we noted a few rather

 

AS eel LUD ae
BS MLDNIGHT OIL AND STILL.’
HAVE A PILE OF WORK®
AHEAD OF YOU.....

OL
: TE 5
| OKA
Kes “4

< oe

BEST

MILK CHOCOLATE MADE

TAKE YOUR MELANGE

Mepicine

T. Y. M. welcomes you back and
wishes you a very happy New Year.

We're all settled again and have
probably resolved that this term
shall be an improvement over the
last. Your scribe shall endeavor to
trace any such improvements and
record them in all honesty and in
justice to everyone involved.

* Bg *

In the words of a great Canadian,
“My heart bleeds for the lowly first
year Med; it grieves for the trials
and suffering of the second year
student; it needs the confidence of
an exalted third year man, and it
greeds for the life and ease of the
fourth year clinician.”

The truth of that statement is
borne out daily by the grumblings
of our freshmen, and by the superior
attitude of their senior brethren.

* * *

My most distinguished agent, B.
Proteus X-19 deserves orchids this
week for a very good story, “The
Tale of a Fourth Year Med”’—a story
of ease and luxury amidst poverty
and want. A very fine apartment
on Morris street, a lady friend on
Barrington street, and nothing less
than a drawing room on the C.N.R.,

lwith the “Marsh of Time” to conheard about a_ sweet little wel = iniaaiatas

sole him therein.”

The popular song seemed to be,
“Fraser well, Isabel?” There was
a Russ getting home and a desire
to return only in the Nick of time.

of * *

The third year class feels very
grateful to the faculty in solving
their problems by the addition of
Surgical Anatomy. All that is needed now is the solution as to where
they are to get another $6.50 for
that new Anatomy book. Maybe
Basil Cody can tell us.

Sie) or Sei i

There is a commendable movement
afoot for the publication of a “Students’ Medical Journal” at Dalhousie.
Why we have been so long without
one is a puzzle to me. A student
body so versatile and active as we
have here could undoubtedly produce
a quarterly of high merit to the advantage of themselves, their professors and the Medical School as a
whole. Keep up the good work and
we shall probably have one before
the close of this term. There’s gold
in them thar hills.

ae ee
We Wonder:

Whether Toby Beeber and Charlie
MacDonald enjoyed themselves in
Philly!

When Dinnie Gillis is to introduce
the wife to the boys!

Whether Bill Embree has fulfilled
his trust as the baby-snatcher while
in Amherst!

Whether Prof. Bean will have a
few new fish stories when he returns
from Ottawa!

Why the premier smile on Gordon
Lea’s countenance! Is it Webster’s
superb saxaphone playing, or a good
job in the summer?

Whether Babe Dubilier felt at
home at the Nova Scotia Hospital
during the vacation!

Whether Dr. Dreyer will be consulted on Helen’s hairdress and
purse, or will it, be Carl’s job?

oH BS ae

For those who were not up to the
mark in your Christmas examinations, mark well the words of
Shakespears, “Life is but a stage,”
and stage a comeback in the spring.
ic eiteemnbeihieiaiant ier Le
serious ones on the front page of a
local paper on the morning of December 26th. These, however, did not
have the same amusing result as one
we saw. The line to be set up was:
“The showers last week, though
copious, were not sufficient for the
millmen.” Unfortunately, a “k” was
substituted for the second “1” in
millmen.

BS oe %

Here is a gag that is so old that
it should find its way on one of
those radio comedians’ programs.. In
order to beat them to it we append
it here. “Love is ‘like a photographic plate — because it needs a
dark room to develop it.

 

| though of very recent growth, has

Say fe ees Te Eg, Se ae ae

STUDENT CHRISTIAN-(Continued from Page One)

on Halifax during his recent visit;
the charming Mrs. Induk Pak; T.
Kagawa; Richard Roberts, Moderator of the United Church of
Canada; Basil Mathews; John R.
Mott; Robert E. Speer.

The Seminars were the important
functions of the convention. Here
the delegates were given an opportunity for an unhurried consideration
of some of the greatest problems
now confronting the Christian world
community. There were  thirtythree seminars, enrolling from fifty
to one hundred delegates each, led
by experts on the subjects studied.
Special resource people were assigned to all groups to cooperate
with the leaders as the occasion
offered.

The Symposium Issue of the
Daily Bulletin carried the following
statement written by the Archbishop
of York which, perhaps, is significant:

“The Convention has presented the
vast need of the world. The question that remains to be answered
is—Have we the spiritual resources
to meet it In one sense we have;
for we have the Gospel. But do we
hold it with sufficient completeness ?
Even that is not the really vital
question; it is — does the Gospel
hold us? Our first business is not
to uphold the Christian faith, but to
let it uphold us. If that becomes
true, but only so, our witness to it
before the world will be effective.”

   
   
   
 
 
    
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
    
   
 

Once again we have run the gauntlet of Christmas holidays—of Christmas dinners and New Year’s headaches. Even New Year’s resolutions
are becoming a thing of the dim
past.

One thing we have found persists,
and that is a tendency to forget that
holidays are over and that work has
begun again; but in the relapse into
class routine we hope that even this
lassitude will disappear. And speaking of routine, almost our first business this term is to decide who shall
participate in the Radio debates.

RADIO DEBATING.
Radio debating at Dalhousie, al
sprung into popularity and aroused
more interest among the students
than any other thing we can think
of. The interest increased last year
when Dalhousie just missed the top
rank, and we feel sure that this fact
will stimulate further enthusiasm
this year.

It is important that this should be
so. Radio speaking is rapidly taking a leading part in public speaking at the present time, and recognizing this fact, it is important that,
as future leaders, we of Dalhousie
should take every opportunity of
cultlivating at least the purely mechanical side of the art of Radio
speaking, for there is no doubt that
the mechanics of speaking before an
audience must be greatly modified
when the latter is replaced by a
microphone.

The radio debating trials at Dalhousie last year proved this conclusively to those taking part, and if
personal confirmation is lacking, we
suggest that you try out for the
“sound trials” in this year’s debating. To those who have been successful in gaining the honors of representing Dalhousie this year we
wish the very best of success,

GEORGE THOMPSON-
(Continued from Page One)

tailed because of its financial position. However, it will continue to
support the work of James R. Johnson, of Hart House, who was appointed overseas travel secretary in
the middle of 1985. Mr. Johnson’s
financial support comes almost entirely from sources outside the Federation, but he takes a great interest in the work of the N. F. C.
U. S., particularly Canadian Students in London who find this genial
Canadian host at Canada House,
London,

The plan for purchasing athletic
equipment from A. G. Spalding &
Sons has been working  satisfactorily and will be continued. It is
hoped that during the fall of 1936
both a Canadian debating team will
tour England and Wales, and a
British Isles team will tour Canada.
Those are the highlights of the pro
AGAINST EXAMS.

Refusing to moralize on the effects
of the interruption into the college
year of the last few weeks, we turn
to those things which come to our
minds as a result of the holidays.
We are led to think once again of
examinations. We don’t want to
start the old fight again, but on the
other hand we don’t want others to
think that we have become resigned

to them. On the contrary, we are! posed debating tours for the next
more resolutely set against them|two years. Details as to othher tours

than ever. of interest to Dalhousie will be given
later. The debating tours of the
Federation for the last period have
been very successful financially and
in all other ways.

That the intangible elements of a
personality, even to the extent of
processes of book learning, can be
mechanically measured is entirely a
falsity, and a statement with which
few will be in accord. Yet those who
uphold the present system say that
we must have some measure or
standard, and further that we must
have mitivation. The latter we accept, the former we most emphatically reject. It is now common
knowledge that direct motivation
can be stimulated through indirect
motivation, and methods for the accomplishment of this are already being used.

The Exchange of Undergraduates
Plan has become increasingly popular and will be further extended, it is
hoped, by the possibility of increasing the number of students to McGill. Fourteen appointmemnts were
arranged this year as compared with
seven of last year. Bernard Graham
and Elwyn Hughes of Dalhousie are
studying this year at Toronto University and McGill respectively.

The secretary’s office will continue
to be an “information bureau” and
clearing house for information on|
any subject. This feature of the
Federation has been of assistance to
Dalhousie in the matters of the D.
A. A. C., the Glee Club, the Year
Book and the Council on various occasions.

To point to the difference between
motivation through activity, and
motivation through fear (of examinations), we offer the case of one
university professor whose course
was divided into two parts, one consisting of lectures on which the students were examined, and the other
of discussion, arranged by the students themselves, on which no examination took place. He would never
completely change over, although the
students insisted, and the professor
agreed that they learned more by
the second methods. Examinations
are certainly not a desirable means
of motivation, and if they are to be
used as such are not only unnecessary but injurious.

Negotiations are under way with
the railway companies to obtain
passes for the university press. The
establishing of commissions to investigate subjects of interest to Canadian students and universities is a
ee
one must admit that this is nearer
to our aim than is the setting up of
a perfect standard. The teacher does

compare one citizen with another,
but that he may produce the best
citizen possible from the material
placed in his hands. If education is
to make for a more enlightened
society, then make that and not educational standards the goal.

However, the supporters of the
present examination system insist
that we need a standard. On the
contrary, we contend that if motivation be well done, then the training
is there, the interest is aroused, and

 

not educate in order that he may I

aed 9 &. *

; : : ; \ i
Friday, January 10, 1936 . ) DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Page Three
es SST ATTN TTT TTT TTT
me Life AT A LITTLE COLLEGE |
CC iin i inin nnn inn nn ttn s

 

  
 

 

    
 

SWEET
CAPORAL

CIGARETTES

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  

 

“The purest form
in Which tobacco
can be smoked.

Lancet

new branch of the work of the Federation.

One of the most beneficial factors
of the conference was the exchange
and solicitation of the ways in which
the universities represented conducted and handled situations which have
arisen in other universities. This
was particularly in reference to the
university press and its freedom or
lack of freedom.

 

LETTER WRITING—

(Continued from Page Two)
the vendor of peanuts, chocolate
bars, chewing gum and magazines
came through the car. I bought a
morning paper. What use is my
writing of what happepned home
yesterday? All the world has the
news at the breakfast table this
morning. There is a certain sense
of uselessness in writing of important matters because the newspaper
will have covered them fully.

What most writers do not realize
is that the most interesting reading,
in newspaper or elsewhere, is their
own personal reaction to these
events, their own summing up of
the situation. Once it became possible for one-half the world to know
within ten minutes what the other
half had done and was doing, the
information value of the letter dwindled by an incalculable amount. A
blessing in thousands of ways, the

daily newspaper must share the
blame for the decay of letterwriting.

I shall write my friend whom I
last saw on the station platform as
the train whisked me suddenly away,
and I shall tell him to forget that
he can write a letter any time, so
that he will concentrate upon the
letter he is writing at the moment
and will therefore take some pride
in it. Further, I shall advise him to
beware the conventional business
phrase, and coldly austere “Dear Sir
or Madam” type of letter which has
come to prevail of late years.
Finally, I shall tell him that he
1s to provide me with news whether
have or have not received it
through the daily papers. Above all,
I shall place in capital letters my
most important request, in effect comprehending all others: PLEASE BE
YOURSELF. I look forward to a
really interesting and pleasant correspondence with my old friend.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
    
 

ae

- ') “

7 pul J
ne
1 ute
a 5
on “ee
1 ee
es:
| ea
“i”
aie |
, al
iy hi
*

a

€
te

4
'

;
-.

|
Ms
"
pe

,
a“
as
Wl

ry
oe

 

 

Page Four,

 

 

Most Spectacular Game of Year

As Tigers Defeat Sunocos

In what was by far the best game
of the season, Dal handed the Blue
Sunocos their first setback of the
year.

Play opened very fast and Maclellan saved nicely from Fleming.
DeWolfe and Cohn went right in on
Healy but in the scramble the puck
was cleared. Neared the end of the
period, Corston picked up a loose
puck and just missed the net as his
shot was hurried by the Sunocos defense. Both sides were carrying
their sticks high and considerable
feeling was creeping in. Carroll and
MacGregor were breaking up Sunocos rushes and breaking quickly for
dangerous rushes on the Sunocos
goal. Nice goal tending kept the
period scoreless.

Both teams opened up to a blistering pace in the second period. Dal’s
first line of Dewolfe, Cohn and Graham was swarming around the Sunocos goal and narrowly missed scoring. After a few minutes of play
Graham passed to Cohn at the Sunocos defense and Cohn streaked
around the defense and returned the
puck to Graham who was parked
just outside the crease and he blazed
a shot to the left hand corner. Sunocos came back fighting furiously to
tie the score and the Tigers fought
hard to increase their score. About
the middle of the period Maclellan
saved sensationally from Reg Clancy
and Brundage who were in alone on
him, This pair finally succeeded
when Clancy took a pass from Brundage skated across the Goal mouth
and backhanded a shot past Maclellan, The period ended just as Carroll was right in on Healy.

 

Stanfield, the latter playing his first
game narrowly missed putting the
Collegians in the lead after several
pretty plays. Fleming of Sunocos
had to leave the ice after being
heavily checked by Carroll. Tempers
began to flare up and Graham
brought down Bailey and MacTaggart on successive rushes, Graham
and Jimmy Smith went to the cooler
for roughing it and play slowed
momentarily, but with the teams at
full strength again, Dal’s second line
came into action and Corston grabbed the puck behind his own blue
line, streaked down centre ice, split
the defense cleanly and sent a smoking shot past Healy which caught
the upper left hand corner.

With Dal again in the lead Sunocos sent wave after wave of players
towards the Dal goal and gave MacLellan several anxious moments.
Reg Clancy, who was by far the pick
of the Sunocos forwards, took a terrific shot with MacLellan down on
his knees. MacLellan jumped in the
air and stopped the puck with his
face to save a certain score. He then
left the ice for repairs. With MacLellan back Smith, of Sunocos went
off for roughing and Carroll broke
away fast with Cohn, with only one
man to beat. He skated in and drew
Bailey out of position and gave Cohn
a perfect pass but Eddie’s shot went
over the net. Play ended shortly
after with Sunocos pressing hard but
vainly for the tying goal. Harry
Smith played well for Dal as Utility
man,

Murray Rankin and Ed Barnhill
again handled the Dal outfit well,
while Reg. Beazley refereed well.

—_ SS OO
—————

With the score tied 1-1 to open The win left the Tigers two points
the third period Sunocos seemed |Pehind Sunocos who have played two
content to play for a tie and Dal|™0°re games. As yet the Tigers are
forced the play from the start. Dal’s|Umdefeated in five games while
second line of Corston, Mullane and | 5¥U20C°Ss lost one game.

League Standing
. . Pow. Di" Pts
2 ea. |Sunocos ......4.. irae a0 38 ~ $0

Watch For University Dalhousie ....... ee OBS
Th . Wanderers ...... S¢ 2 4-0-4

; eatre Night Farmers 200045. % Sri OF 4) i Bers. &

New Arrivals in
Men’s Smart

Outstanding
Value, Pair

The new EATONIAS have just arrived, and offer an excellent
range of new models including brogues, oxfords, heavier type

shoes for walking and smart dressy light oxfords.

Of black or

brown calf leathers with leather or rubber heels. Sizes 5% to 11.
Eaton’s Second Floor

€T.

 
   

«

NOVA SCOTIA

$3.00 PER COUPLE

EATON C°

MARITIMES

LIMITED

 

N HOTEL

 

 

“DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

que Leaders

Sports on Parade

(By the SPORTS EDITOR)

| The new term began with
| thusiasm that marked every Dalhousie major event in sports.
Publicized at every turn this wave overcame undergraduates, |
professors and alumni alike, completely disarming the shy
freshman to the stern and austere professor.

rejuvenated along with current

Football occasioned the first big turnout of the year when

our seniors and intermediates,
Fletcher, a football star in his

moving. After a hectic exchange of kicks and cuss-words, the
teams emerged on the inferior end of the score. The Dalhousian “injury-jinx” declaring itself as usual, aided to disintegrate the poorly developed team.

The freshmen exerted themselves to such a degree that
they reclaimed their astounding achievement of 1929 and won
the interfaculty trophy, the elements aiding the cause con
siderably.

Even American football, in the embryo stage, caused a

commotion on the gridiron when

St. Mary’s in a two-game series. |
Professor Mercer deserves credit for arranging an alumni

and undergraduates tennis match; honors split even.

by rumors of Dalhousie possessing asphalt courts.

housie tennis team easily won

|trom Acadia and the Maritime

 

 

|sports and every hope exists that it

Hy Magonet basked in the expected victory of the Medicos in the interfaculty track meet, taking first in
the 100 yard dash, 220 yard dash,
javellin throw, discus and a member of the winning 440 yard relay,
scoring 25 points.

Hitherto unnoticed, ground hockey
won its place in the sport light under the instruction of Margaret
Woolaver. Suffering several inglorious defeats, the Dal girls reasserted
themselves, beating Edgehill and
Halifax Ladies’ College in a traditional grudge battle at the end of
the season. The boys-girls’ game
was an hilarious free-for-all that resulted in a win for the boys. The
boys skirted about so speedily that it
was difficult to determine who were
really on the boys team.

Senior hockey, after much debate
whether Dal should have a team, has
more than redeemed the woeful performances of past years. At present
Dal stands tied for the top birth,
Wednesday’s game to decide. Sweepnig through all teams, league and
exhibition, Dal has not lost a game
to date. Interfaculty hockey should
get underway in a few weeks according to recent reports.

The swimming team met a customary defeat at the hands of the

the Nova Scotia championship

sport this year Pender f
taught them—so beware you Sherriff | + ©"4er finally scored on MacLellan.
Hall idlers.

have
themselves in the lower gym every
Saturday at 3.30.
way of competition is soon to be
announced.

N.F.C.U. PRESENTS-
apply if he is, at the time of the ap- by MacLellan in
plication, in the second year of his/ po) turned in w

 

‘Dal Defeats
Wanderers 6-1

Although presenting a lineup supposedly weakened by the loss of)
several star regulars, Dalhousie
|Tigers swamped Wanderers for the
second time in as many starts, this
time by a score of 6-1.

The Tigers abandoned their usual
cautious style of play and from the
'start to the finish played a wide open
‘attack which carried everything before it. The Redmen iced a greatly
improved team over that which was
beaten by Dalhousie a few weeks
ago, but could not match the pep and
fire of the Collegians.

A penalty to Jim Dunsworth, Wan|derers husky defenceman, for trip| ping proved very costly to the Reds.
While he was in the cooler, Eddie
Cohn took the puck from a face-off
rounded the defence and slipped a
nice shot into the corner of the net.
Shortly after this a pretty passing
play, Cohn to Dewolfe, resulted in
Dal’s second goal.

Opening the middle frame the
Tigers again turned on the heat and

an unaccountable delay of en
“College sppirit”’ |
trends to prosperity.

coached and lectured by Prof.
own right, started 1935 sports

 

 

Better luck next year.

Dal’s team shared honors with

 

Stirred
The Dal
Intercollegiate title.

the curricula but Dal intends to set

 

and Jim Graham notched up the
third goal of the evening when he let

the pace.
Ping Pong, the indoor game that

 

claims more participants than any|8° one of his hard shots which was
D ‘a
vity because the Forresters who are| /igers let down momentarily and
entered in the match have not obey- Bobby MacLellan, making his debut
ed the schedule. ; ‘ é :
progress are asked to please phone tional heights in keeping his cage
their opponents and arrange for a clear. Many of his saves were hardly
game.

al sport, has suffered a lull of acti-|/abelled goal, all the way. The

Those retarding with the Dal team, rose to sensa
less than miraculous.
The third period was all Dalhousie

The girls will undertake a new .
except for the opening minutes when

when boxing is
eorge Corston scored the fourth
Wrestlers’ Training Dal goal on a solo effort. Dewolfe
A>dozen or so brawny wrestlers added another In an individual play
hei entangling and leading 5-1 Dal continued to attack and Cohn took a pretty pass
from Dewolfe to score the final goal
of the game.

In the absence of Ernie Mosher,
former Wolverine ace, the coaching
assignment was ably handled by
Murray Rankin.

The surprise packet of the night
was the sensational playing of Bobthe Tiger’s citadel.
hat is declared by
many to be the best exhibition of
plain and fancy net minding seen in
the Forum this year.

BADMINTON

(Continued from Page One)

constantly

Something in the

(Continued from Page One)

course or, in the case of five year
courses, in the second or third year.
It is a condition of each appointment
that the Exchange Scholar must return, at the conclusion of his scholarship year to complete his course

 

“Y” nautors in November. It is ru-|2t+ his “home” university. Conse-| fy the last three matches:
moured that Dal and “Y” will com-|duently a sophomore taking the Men’s singles ............ ee) ee
bine forces and meet the strong|¥USUal four-year Arts Soe aay be | Women’s singles ... 7 9
Acadia team soon, attempting to put awarded a scholarssip for his third“ \fen’s doublese 26 6. 7 13
an end to the consistent annual drub-| Ye; in the case of five year courses Women’s doubles ........ 3 22
bing: meted. out im former meats. the scholarship may be awarded|Mixed doubles ........... 4 16
This is more or less a brief and anaes ‘beg fie Wied o aor Yeae ENS | ig McCurdy Cup competition
comprehensive review of Dal sports scholarships are particularly easy to|starts on Saturday, Jan. 18. Home

for the first half of the term. A new
era has certainly started in Dal

will be preserved. A few remarks on
coming sports events is proper. Softball and Interfaculty basketball will
begin next week. Latent basketballers are asked to show their abilities.

The senior basketball team is in
the last stages of development with a
promising bunch of veterans and
new men. The first real test of their
training will take place January 11,|
when they take on the Acadia Club,
Bar Harbour, Maine.

Mr. Stirling expresses hopes for a|
strong intercollegiate boxing team
this year. Most of our star maulers
are ineligible, having spent more
than four years at Dal, but new
faces and strong punches have been
seen in action.

An innovation in sports will make
its inception this week when gymnastic classes start their antics
routinely, three times a week, Tuesday, 12 to 1; Thursday, 12 to 1, and
Saturday, 2.30. Prospects are good
for a gym team. Eastern Canadian
colleges have not added this sport to|

 

 

|arrange in the Arts pass course.

| will be able to enter freely into the

It
is not necessary that the candidate |
be in his second year at the univer- |
sity, so long as he is in the second |
year of his course. |

An Exchange Scholar is expected
to be a representative student of his
“home” university in every way. It
is not necessary that he should have
a first-class academic standing, but
he must be a competent student who

and home games have been arranged
with the Halifax Badminton Club
and the Militia Officers’ Badminton |
Club. Dalhousie-King’s may not win|
the 19386 City Championship, but it
won’t be for lack of interest and it
won’t be for lack of effort. After
all, the number of students playing
a game is the best criterion of its
value. C. H. MERCER,
Badminton Coach.

 

 

life of the “exchange” university
without fear of class-room conse- ( A S [ N O
quences.

   

About eighty students have received Exchange Scholarships during
the past seven years. This year a
total of thirteen are enjoying the
privileges of the Exchange Plan. In
most cases the saving in tuition fees
more than balances the transporta
 

Starting Saturday
January 11th

“THANKS
A

tion costs involved. Applications

must be handed in to the N.F.C.U.S. Mil 99
representative before March Ist, LION
1936. with

DICK POWELL
ANN DVORAK
PATSY KELLY
FRED ALLEN
PAUL WHITEMAN
RUBINOFF

YACHT CLUB BOYS

 

Watch For University

 

10 £100 eee

 

 

 

Theatre Night

 

 

 

Millionaires - Boilermakers

JERRY NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA

   

 

 

 

Friday, January 10, 1936

 

 

it TAN

20 for 20¢- 25 fr 25¢-50 Lr 50¢

 

CLASS
PARTIES

The ideal place for
class parties now is
the newly decorated
Green Lantern Palm
Room. Tastily decorated, central, reasonable.

The Green Lantern

   
 
 
 
  
  
  

Pens and pencils for

 

ready and faithful
service, may be
found at Birks’ pen

counter,

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

  
    

Friday, Saturday, Monday

 
 

Claudette Colbert
Fred MacMurray

  
   
 

“The Bride Comes
Home”

    
 

Plus Capitol Selected Shorts.

 
 

 

 

 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 17.

Ball

> &§
$2.00 STAG

 
