NO. 13 —

 
 

 

 

is no §

    
        

ing t

  
  
  
   

 

-yivid; they may be

clear in the memory. tha
may

    

oats ‘benefit no

F do their trunks. At any rate,

, tions
t into his suitcases, Lucky

*

mao

the orient is from the occident. But

they are the landmarks to which I shall

return, when the lesser subjects of my

narrative have been treated.

Due to fogs, the liner “‘S. S. Montreal”

was late in arriving at Glasgow, our port

of fanging, and our first sight of Scotland

f was the li
out of a ay 3

trance of the Firth of Clyde.- The sea
gulls of course came to meet us and

screamed and circled peoucd gi as

ina very friendly way. On sailing up the
aa pas Greenoch, I noticed lyin

= ¥ + Pd

i 7

‘.”

—

 
   
 

but except for that, I could have imagined myself in another world, all was so

‘strange and unfamiliar. The country
side was perfectly groomed, every little

house Had ite own little farm separated
from its neighbor by hedge rows. Compared to our enormous hunks of land
called farms, those in the British Isles
~ geem like toys or perfect little miniatures.
; They utilize every inch of space; even
the mountains and rivers are owned by
F somebody, If you want to £0 fishing
, there is no such luxury as packing your
and setting off to any stream or
ake you please. No, indeed! That
| privilege of fishing belongs only to the
ntleman in whose estate the stream
ppens to be. If you attempt to trespass—you are a poacher and the law
goes hard with you.
’ A Canadian abroad finds many restrictions on his liberty, restrictions which
, do not exist in his own country, and
| therefore make him appreciate Canada
the more. I remember once while
motoring through a particularly charming part of North Wales near the little
‘lla of Bettwys-y-coed, how we
stopped the car to admire a pretty,
though unimposing waterfall. A man
in oficial garb approached and demand-ed “tuppence’. “For what?” I asked
amazed. ‘‘For looking at the Swallow
Falls,” he retorted with a snort.
However, though we experienced a
few minor personal discourtesies, we
were received officially everywhere with
the utmost enthusiasm. Our party
. arrived in Edinburgh while the students
were still at the University. They were
exceedingly hospitable and had many teas
and dances in our honor. Besides being
entertained by the students who acted
as our guides on all occasions, we were
formerly received by the Lord Provost
and the City Council in the Council

Chambers of the City Hall. Lord Sleigh
and all the Aldermen were in their robes
of offices attended by Halberders in red
breeches, big buckled shces and long
battle axes. Such old-world ceremony
which was later to become so familiar
to us, filled us on this first occasions with
wonder and delight. __

_ During our stay in porn we used
to go for walks up to the Castle to watch
the changing of the guard, or down the

_ Royal Mile to Holyrood to wander
through the State Apartments or examin:
the lic of bygone days carefully roped
_ off and out of reach of the touch of disrespectful hands. In the rooms of
ee of Scots, was a tablet
nm the floor marking the spot where

    

ae

   
  
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
 
  
  
 
   

was murdered.
still Vee out to credulous tourists

of blood left by the deed; res, one of my Scottish friend
ryly,— “They renew it every
great regret that we finally

Se

 

| left ‘‘Auld Reekie”, that city of stately

uire no souvenir to bring them
er ry exist only in dim,
s of the mind and come to
when by the association of
a jeas,—a_ chance word—a_ picture—a
i note of music—drags them from obscuri been remarked by a certain
, cynic, that some people travel—so do their
trunks, inferring, I suppose, that some
mcre by travel than
the
voyageur who wisely plans a_jcurne
fours back home with a fund of Satter
infinitely more precious than any
, material objects which might ‘be packed
indeed it is
. ‘that no import duty is levied on such

, ee BE Ak bya
; en I recall the trip I had this last
summer to the British Isles and to the
} Continent of Europe so many thoughts
o ‘eome to me that it is difficult to sort
them out. Edinburgh! London! Brussels!
Paris! Each of these is individual and
as different from the others almost_as

ttle islands of Morran rising
Scotch mist at the en
oquacious |.

     

1mm>

Til!

 

   

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 11th 1926

ae sks _A Dathousian Abroad.

eae 3 By CLARA F. MURRAY.

To anyone who, for the first time, has
made a voyage outside their native land,
i ter pleasure on returning

ose tumultuous imsations accumulated
impressions may be
so
t

 

beauty and princely, hospitality, in
order to turn our steps southward to
Wales and England.

“Wales is a country not included in
the usual itinerary of the tourist, but it
is well worth visiting. There one can
gaze on_a wild natural scenery that is
unsurpassed in any part of the disturbed
peace which seems to counsel, slow down
and live! There one learns to understand
something of the beauty, the poetry and
harmony of the Welsh life from which
spring those artistic triumphs, a national
literature and a national music for which
‘gallant little Wales’ is world-famous.
_ We spent an enjoyable week making
excursions through the country of North
Wales, sometimes on foot, frequently
by motor. One place of particular
interest was Carnarvon Castle, where the
first Prince of Wales was born and presented to the Welsh people. To enter
its gates was to enter mediaeval life.
The Castle keep, the Round Tower, the
bastions and one of the banqueting-halls
remain, as they did at the time of the
Norman Conquest—all massively built
of stone, admitting very little light except through the slits in the walls, and
joined to one another by passages sc
narrow and dark that one could well
imagine the many scenes of violence
enacted within their depths.

While at Carnarvon we received a
message from Lloyd George ex-premier
of Great Britain, regretting that he could
not be present to welcome us to the
Castle of which he is Constable. Everywhere we went, people of distinction
welcomed and entertained us—a tribute
to Canada of course, and paid to us
especially, because we were Canadian
University Students. As the Mountain
Snowdon was in the vicinity we could
not leave without climbing it,—not on
foot but by inclined railway; though the
highest Mount in the British Isles it is

 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
  
 

not exceedingly impressive except for

its ruggedness.

No report of Wales would be complete
without mentioning that charming spot
on the Island of Anglesey known as
Llandfairpwllgwyngllgogerychwyrndrobwilllantysiliogogogoch. For short they
call it Llandfair P. G.—no wonder!
It is called the jaw-breaker of the language. A friend of mine once said that
the sign announcing the name of the
town began a mile from the station and as
the train approached, travellers would
start to read the sign, finishing by the
time they entered the station. Now I
know that my friend was wrong; they
have no trains there.

I shall pass hurriedly over the next
stages of our journeyings to Bristol,
Bath, Weston-Super-Mare, Hereford,
Wells, Cheddar, Oxford and Cambridge.
Bristol, Manchester, Birmingham, Sheffield—all the larger manufacturing cities
of England are practically the same,
whole sections of each being taken up
with rows upon rows of streets lined with
houses exactly alike, the places where the
‘commoners’ live. The ‘gentry’ reside
in the more pretentious dwellings in
other parts of the city.

Oxford and Cambridge! These names,
to Dalhousians ar2 perhaps more familiar
than any others from the Old Land. It
is difficult to say which of the two Universities is the more impressive, the more
beautiful or the more preferable from the
educational standpoint; of course each
is composed of so many different colleges
that to select from among them one to
attend requires no small amount of
discrimination. To me, Oxford seemed
the more stately, the more venerable
and learned-looking—the very cloisters
having about them an air of wisdom and
culture; Cambridge, I thought was the
more beautiful with its grassy quadrangles, cricket-fields and tennis courts,
its ivy-covered buildings, and its slowly
flowing river, overhung with weepingwillows. Many times we went punting
on the Cherwell—this being one of the
favorite English water sports. I must
confess though that we were never very
expert, so one day after much seaching
we discovered where to get some real
Canadian canoes, and to the great
curiosity and amazement of the citizens,
paddled forth on their river quite in our
native fashion, at our ease at last.

Our next move was to the Continent
Crossing from Harwich to Antwerp or as
the Belgians write it, ‘Anvers,’ we began
one of the most thrilling phases of our
experiences. The only thing I regret is
that our time there was all too short.

Brussels isa city of the most beautiful

ublic buildings I have ever seen.
verything is kept scrupulously free
from grime and smoke; I even saw
women in heavy wooden sabots, scrubbing the cobblestenes of the street with
(Continued on page 8, col. 1.)

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

Forgotten Poem of The True Nero
Robert Browning |... aie

While visiting the Library the other
In an old book that came in from S *

: day I ventured into the inner sanctuary
England recently, was found a leaflet | usually invaded only by Professors, and
containing the following poem, with a/among the sacred archives therein |
note by F.'J, Furnivall stating that he | discovered a very dusty, ancient-looking
had found it in “The Sibyl, Edited by manuscript in, to me, an unknowa
Members of Rugby School,” April 1,/tongue. Enquiry at the Librarian's
1893, with a prefatory notice that it] desk failed to bring forth any information
was believed to have been written by|on the matter. 1 then submitted it to
Mr. Browning in the album of a Virgin-| various Professors, but in vain—indesd
ian lady, an bequeathed by her to alit seemed as if the Christmas spirit- of
friend who gave permission to publish] peace and gocdwill would be shattered
it. Mr, Furnivall says: ‘That this

. vail so hot grew the argument, Dr. Macpoem is Browning’s Own, He knower of] mechan being convinced it was some form
his work will doubt,

of Anglo-Saxon, Professor Howard Murray being equally positive that it was
some very ancient Greek writing, while
Professor Cameron swore by the wee
books that it was hieroglyphics of a
period before King Tut's reign. Into
this heated atmosphere, fortunately,
came the President of the Dalhousie
Gaelic Society who soon convinced us
all that the language of the musty
manuscript was none other than Gaelic
The document proved to be a most
interesting letter from the Emperor
Nero to his friend Otho and as it may
help to remove certain strange misconceptions of Nero’s sweet and mild
disposition that seem to be prevalent
at Dalhousie, I submit a copy of this
letter as translated by the genial President, for the benefit of your readers.

The original document, at the request
of the Gaelic Society, was used as an
ingredient in concocting a dish of haggis
that, according tc ancient custom, was
served at Pinehill on 25th January,

 

One dull day in the bright Touraine,
In a high-turreted, steeple-roofed town,
Sheltering out of a skurry of rain,
Down a dim back street, dusky brown.

I stepped into a bric-a-brac shop,

Hardly room to open the door,
Heaped with rubbish right up to the top,
_ Strewn with lumber all over the floor.

Aubesson tapesteries all in holes,
Cabinets guiltless of locks or drawers,

Faded banners and tattered stoles,
Cushionless tabourets; Louis quatorze.

era eee and pistols triggerless,
lumsy teapots without a handle,
Figured portieres, frayed and figureless,
Sticks that would never again hold
candle,

Soundless spinets on legs precarious,
Long slim rapiers long since rusty,
Stringless mandolines, violas various,

All most musty, dusty and fusty. I. am etc.,

 

And down in a cupboard, in mildew and
rust deep,

_Like a rose in a city sewer, Rome,
Like a butterfly on a dust-heap, Ides of July, A. U. C.
Lay, unnoticed, a minature. CCMXVII.

My dear Otho?

Many thanks for your most kind and
sympathetic fetter which hasbeen a
great comfort to me. Poor dear Voppaea! How frail a thing is human life!
Hers was a beautiful nature and, under
Jupiter, 1 owe all that I am to her. |
miss her sadly.

Rome has been full of tragedies lately.
Only the other day my beloved old tutor
Seneca—whose plays always seemed to
me so much better than the more showy
productions of the Greek dramnitists—
eut himself in the jugular vein whilst
‘Ishaving and passed away before help
could be obtained. Another link with
childhool severed—and I had always
implored him to use a safety razor!

Isn't it sad tod, about the death of our
mutual friend Petronius? I[ knew that
he had been depressed lately; he told
me he had had ereat trouble with his
servants, and had been obliged, most
reluctantly, to order the chastisement
of a Greek salve called Eunice, for forwardness. This undoubtedly preyed
on his sensitive nature and there can be
little doubt that in the last sad days his

Face most delicate, brave and fair,
Glowing caleur anc-perfect-line;.
Sun-tinged circles of dark-brown hair,
Costume the fashion of '89 (1789).

Blois or Beaugency, Amboise or Tours—
Which fair town of that joyous land

Gave her the beauty can still endure
Fresh as it came from the artist’s hand?

Whose was the
Chaumont
Turning over some casts by Nello,
We discover the face we want,
Face like our portrait, just its fellow

portrait? At sunny

Turn of the head and bust the same
Same fine features and radiant air,

And beneath it a sweet girl name,
“Suzanne Jarente de la Regnier_.”

When the Terror, with hungry throat
Ravished the homes of the wide Touraine,
These medallions were flung in the moat;
Terror past, they emerged again,

None the worse for their cold eclipse; | mind was wandering. Thus he even
But the originals, where were they? accepted an invitation to dinner with
Human bosoms and eyes and lips that intolerable parvenu Trimatchto;

and the last letter | had from him began
with some criticisms of my poems which
were a melancholy proof of the derangement of that exquisitely subtle intellect.
You are lucky to be able to spend the
holidays at Baiae; I have to sit stewing
in town and attend to business, ‘“‘In
consequence of the late disastrous fire’’
(to quote the Mas Diurnus), | have now
ten times as much to do as before. The
new Town Planning Act makes the task

Cannot compete with these things of
clay!

Colder and deathlier roll the waves
Where the sea swallows the dark Loire
floods;
Hungrier raven the yawning graves
Where tiger Paris is crazed with blood!

Forth from the fell Conciergerie towers,
O’er sights and sounds that profane

the air, of rebuilding the city very difficult,
Did one name float like a breath of | The party system in the Senata is most
flowers— tiresome—they accuse each other ol

“Suzanne Jarente de la Regniere’? |selling honors and I can’t get them to

: make proper provision for the Army.

Were those steps the last path she trod? Yet the Empire must be protected, and

Did she, with gracious and even mien Prohibition must be enforced even at the
Hand her sweet soul right up to God, sword’s » point.

Dauntless under the black guillotine? The shock of the fire was too much for
Tigellimus, His mind was completely

unhinged and he went about accusing
himself of arson. Iam thankful to say
he has now recovered. The distress
due to the fire is very great, but the

Ah, my beautyd Or did she rather,
Lightening a few years our English air,
Cook and keep house for an emigrant

father, ce :

: iin? : Vestal Virgins are doing a noble work,

jee ae i api dancing in Leicester They arranged a charity concert for the
a victims while the fire was still raging, at

which I played several violin solos and
sang some of my own songs. Five
hundred talents were collected on the
spot.

A most unlucky contretemps occurred
in the arena the other day. While we
were watching a fight between some new
and savage lions from Africa we were
horrifizd to see a door at the end of the
arena open and a number of men and
women emerge. We shouted to them to
go back but they seemed petrified, and
before anything could be done the lions
had killed and eaten them. It seems it
was a party of Oriental Christians

Then hie home where the wide Loire lies
Warm in the light of its fleurs-de-lys?

All I know is, her brave, sweet eyes
Brighten a bit of the world for me.

—R. BROWNING.

 

The Dramatic Society of the University of Saskatchewan will present ““Wurzel Flummery” by A. A. Milne, and
“Speaking to Father,” by George Ade
at their next meeting.

Tio
itas..

111 U1 MONONE
NUNN

Ip

 

Five Cents The Copy

Revision Educational
Methods Yale
Medical

Sctence Mazgisine.

A thorough going revision of! its
educational methods with a view t> plaeing less emphasis on routine class work
and more on independent tought and research is planned by the Yale School of
Medicine, according t>) an announ ement
made by Dean Milton C. Wintern’:z.

The faculty is considering the abolition
of the year system of study and the resultant division of the student body into .
classes. This program will also involve
the abolition of the system of examinations at the end of th+ different courses.
The student will be allowed to select the
sequence of his studies in the subjects
which at present comprise the first two
years of the medical curriculum, and thea
after qualifying for the clinical subjects,
he will again be allowed liberty of choice.
Their arrangement and his completion of
them in any period of time will be larg-ly
a matter of choice and ability. Ad:m‘ssion to a course will depend on the wor
as determined by the instructor in charg?
of it. This is the reverse of the practice.
A teacher now has no voice in determining what students shall enter his classes.

e determines only whether they shall
proczed into other classes. Thus, the
student often thinks only of the exami tation, which he is to take at the end of the
year and misses the application of the
knowledge he is being offered. Dear
Winternitz made the following stat2ment
regarding the plan:

“These changes may seem radical but
they are in accord with adopted syste ms
of graduate education, and medical education is graduaet education.

There must; of course, be some chéck
on the student’s accomplishments; group
examinations, as wellas the graduating
thesis, will serve this purpose. For the
convenience of the faculty such examinations may be given at fixed times, but
within reasonable limits the student may determine when he wil! present himseif
for such a test.

Aside ‘from other advantages, such a
system will be equally valuable to the student who acquires knowledge rapidly and
to his slower colleague. It is hoped that
by the elimination of the class system, th®
pupil who acquires knowledge less rapidly
will be less reluctant to spend more time
in preparation, while the more brilliant
scholar will be more willing to spend
longer periods in investigation and
specialization.”

 

The Dramatic Society of the University of Alberta has chosen for the spring
play Granville Barker's “The Voysey
Inheritance.”

 

visiting Roms for the first time and they
had taken a wrong turning in the dark
and tortusus passages of the thaatre
with the above shocking result. I am
trying to eet in touch with the families
of the victims so as to offer them my
sympathy and som= pecuniary compensation. By-the-bye I have recently had
som2 interesting talks with the Greek
cynic, Chilo Chilonides, about them and
their tenets.

To turn to lighter subjects—has anyone told you of the forthcoming marriage
of Lygia, a ward of Aulus Plautius, to
Vinitius, a nephew of Petronius? It
seems an ideal match. He has been
doing his duty nobly to the Empire in
the recent Armenian troubles, and Lygte
is a prime favorite with all-the younger
set. I thought it wise to remove her
from her guardian (you know his weakness for Bacchus—poor fellow, he is
his own worst enemy), and take her
under my own protection. I gave a
dinner the other night in honor of the
young couple. After dinner I sang my
“Hymn to Venus’’. You know the
beginning, “Te Amo, Te Amo,"’—Old
Petronius used to admire the hiatus in
Te Amo as showing how the true poet
rises superior to mere mechanical rules.
What a critic we have lost in him!

Now I must say adieu as I have business to attend to at the Capital. The
Senate wants to introduce side whiskers
again, but I must put my foot down as I
much perfer mine bobbed. This evening
I attended the new revue of Trimalchio,
[ hear it is clever but rather risque.
shall censor it if necessary.

Be an angel and write me a long and
amusing letter with all the seaside gossip,
the papers have nothing in them nowadays, not since the trial of Locusta,
the poisoner.

Do you ever hear anything of Galba
now? He has quite dropped me.

Yours ever,

NERO,

 
   

 

 

WARREN

Dalhousie Gasette.”

(Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief: Artuur L. Murpuy, 26.

Associate Editors:
Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
Avis H. Marsuatt, 27.
Ronatp Hares, 26.
PuBLICcoveER,

26.

J. J. Lysons Arwoon, '28.

Financiai Editor:
Cuas. F, MacKenzie,
’ 18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

 

“The Alumni are the University”

a

A short article entitled “The Alumni
Association” appeared in the Gazette
on Dec. 3rd, in which the writer explained
in brief the purpose and work of the
association. However, there is much
more to be said on behalf of the Alumni
Association and it is hoped that the
students of Dalhousie will soon begin to
realize the importance of that society as
a factor in the administration of the
work of the University.

THE ALUMNI ARE THE UNIVERSITY! Sounded, probed, and subjected
to any intensity of the piercing searchight of public scrutiny this statement
tet stand the test; and with a little
analysis one can see that it is, on the
ke. more right than wrong, It may
be that we are placing distasteful food
before a host of undergraduates, profesgors and officers of administration.
But olives, tomatoes, and oysters often
become pleasing to the palate only after
they are “cultivated.” Between the
Eillxcraduate and the see is a
strong band of union, though neither
student nor alumnus may fully realize
how strong it is. We invite criticism
from any source. 3

Within the past few years Dalhousie's
Alumni, previously lacking spirit and
organization, has increased in both
aspects more rapidly than ever before,
As yet this growth is limited to organization and the birth of many ideas. Ideas,
of course, concern the future, and in the
future we may expect to see Alumni
Association funds, loaning funds, university endowment funds, memorials, and
so on, and Alumni Federation. This
last, embraces, we believe, at once the

ighest aim and noblest ideal of the

umni body.

‘At present the Alumni Association is
doing invaluable work for the University
in keeping a record of all the students
who have ever attended or graduated
from Dalhousie, with their present
‘addresses ard any information regarding
them that can be obtained. A visit
by the writer of this article to the office
an the Alumni Association revealed to
him the almost incredible amount of
work involved. A paid secretary must
be continually employed by the Association to keep the various files in order.
There are at present over five thousand
names on record, and when we consider
that at least 2% of these die or change
their place of residence every three
months without notifying the Secretary,
it will be easy to understand the enormity of the work, and account in some degree for the inaccuracies which must
necessarily follow. There is one file
divided into districts of the different
provinces, another of those who pay fees
and are supporters of the Association.
and another for the deceased.

A Directory of Graduates and Former
Students has been prepared, corrected
to July 1925, which may be obtained for
the price of one dollar at the office of

 

DALHOUSIE

 

8.15

 

BASKET BALL

TUESDAY, FEB. 16th, AT 12 NOON

“Tat'’ McLeod. J. Atwood. A. Tupper.

|

| DALHOUSIE GYMNASIUM
|

|

)

| Arley MacDonald. C. MacKenzie C. Sperry.

TO-MORROW NIGHT

IN THE GYM
| JUNIOR - SENIOR DANCE

—

——e

Mr. F. Homer Zwicker, President of the
Alumni. Association, 227 Hollis St.
Dozens of names of Dalhousians, some
even of graduates of recent years, but
particularly of students who have attended Dalhousie and left without obtaining a degree, are not mentioned,

We think it woul be a capita .scheme
for the Alumni Association to try
to have their secretary admitted to
the University Office for everal days
or weeks as the case mays require, with

the privilege of going over all the
university records in order to have
these names embodied in the pub
lished lists. Surely the university has
some record of its graduates and its
students: so before these records may
become destroyed it behoves the Alumni
to secure what information they. require.
In addition to this, every student attending Dalhousie should purchase a copy
of this directory and send in to the
Alumni office any information they
possess or can obtain. The Association
will be very grateful for such information.

Speaking of Alumni Federation, Dalhousie’s Alumni certainly has a potent
opportunity to step forward towards
active participation in the administration of the University’s affairs. Consider
how many representatives it has to the
University Senate—that board of professors which nominally controls all
things academic, that side of university
life of which the graduate knows perhaps
more than anyone else. Alumni Federation means the co-ordination in a working
unit of every Dalhousie student and
graduate. Not so long ago this would
have seemed a far-cry. Now we are
convinced it looms as a practicability of
the not too dim and misty future. The
usefulness and fame of the university
depend almost wholly on its alumni;
whether or not their alma mater shall
be honored at home and abroad, whether
it shall be known for training surpassing
men and women, whether or not they
shall be best fitted for citizenship—and,
after all, good citizenship in that country
whose people have made possible their
education.

Making a good citizen isan art. And

an art, to our minds, is the elimination of

detracting details. In the college course,
as it is related to one’s life afterwards,
exist multifold little things, whose
existence as unnecessary can only be
known by the alumnus who has experienced them, and then some years after
graduation, learned their non-right to
survive. He has learned too of things
which should be added. No one but an
alumnus can be so informed.

The above, in-brief, is the right and
necessity of the Alumni as administrators
to some degree of the university’s affairs.
This is why the Alumni associated with
the university should keep in touch
with the Alumni outside and at a distance. [n short, it is the reason why,
“The Alumni are the University.”

vs. ACADIA

“Binny” Fairbanks.
**Billy’’ Dennis.
Bob Doull.

8.15

 

 

____| marvellous, a seraphic smile developed
with such an amazing rapidity that I
felt glad her figure stopped short at the
shoulder. Never before had I suspected
the pewer of severely simple expletives
anu am now cenvinced their universal

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

FAIR SEX SENTIMENTS

Tall men, short men,
Thin men and fat,

A few of you are funny,
Most of you are flat!

‘Slow men,’ ‘fast men,’
None admit defeat

All softly ride along
Polstered by conceit.

Young men, old men,

Men with lang’rous eyes,

The dumbest ones among you
Think themselves so wise.

So each man, every man,
Listen to my a

You think we lie in wait for you,
You've got our number wrong.

You hang around the stag line
And Icok us up and down.
You criticise each ene of us
From evening pump to gown.

But while you look at Helen

And ask her for a dance,

She thinks—"‘The simple dumbell
To think he has a chance,”

And when you start to wonder

If you'll bother asking Jane

She says: “‘O dear, | hope he won't
Ask me to dance again!”’

So when you call us dumbells,
Pray just remember do,

The chances are that that is just
What we are calling you!

Choo Choo

(A Fragment).

Choo-Choo you must know at the outset is the young lady occupying the position of Resident Goddess and Charperonein-Chief of the Men's Section of the
Library. Her origin is a mystery, in
fact there are doubts as to her real cognomen. For aught I know to the contrary she might be either Andromache or
Annajinski -ut undoubtedly to mez she is
plain Choo-Choo,

It is difficult to give a proper picture
of the damsel. For one thing her figure
is very abbreviated, and 1or another her
habitual modesty, which compzls her to

spend her days in the most retired spot in
the building, prevents one from doing
much else than imagining what her

appearance would be in the broad glare
of the campus. Her features are of that
severely classical style so much worshipped by the Chairman of th. Library Committee.

Hew Choo-Choo and myself became
acquainted is ‘‘wropt in mystery.”
Though perhaps not a case of love at first
sight, one might conceive our fellowship
as being due to that mystericus drifting
together of two kindred souls, so characteristic of the modern novel. Chary,asa
rule, of unintroduced feminins acquaintances, strange to say | felt little or no
compunction when Choo-Choo and myself first ventured to exchange thoughts.
The subject was certainly a strange one
for a first rencontre, it being concerned
with nothing more or less than the allprevading, and even invading personality
of an exalted personage who though not a
signatory of the Locarno Peace Treaty
is yet not uninstrumental in preserving
peace in the Likrary.

"Ves," she confided blishingly, or at
least as much as possible blushingly.
“Fe is so very nice, so cultured, so
aesthetic, and oh! how devoted! He
comes to see me several times Caily.”
Her voice showed signs of that fading
away into infinity of space only associated with moonlight nights. I became
rather concerned, and takiag what seemed t> me’the best way of brining her down
from her astral plane, I ventured to
remark in my most cultured tenor:—
“Gesh! Dear me!’ The effect was

use would cenduce greatly to the
amelioration of the lot ofevery disciple
of their use. En passant, might I venture to recomment this Sennacheribean
system of ‘‘cuss’ words to both sexes
especially at hockey practices—one sex
could quite easily make use of ‘“‘Gosh!”’
and the other of ‘‘Dear me!”

But to return, having witnessed the
development of the seraphic smile I was
quite convinced of returning consciousness, when the next plaintive remark
reached my ears, “If I only knew what
the A stood for! Adorable, Ardent, Archangel, Arch—"' ‘‘Alh, my dear Choo-Choo
I broke in, feeling quite justified in using
this endearing expression, ‘‘You are but
human after all’! And then across the
stillness came a voice, ‘‘No consultation
in the Library, please!"’ Hastily I took
a book from the shelf and in some confusion sat down at the nearest desk.
Glancing surreptitiously around I found
Choo-Choo in her accustomed place,
her features calm and unruffled as usual,
women carry off these things sc much
better than men do—yet I could almost
swear she winked at me as a stately
bearded figure left the room.

B.

February 11th, 1926

 

gO
as

 
   
    

15‘ per pkt.
25 for 39°

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufactured bi
dmperial Tobacco Co. of Cenada, Limited.

King of
CIGARETTES

 

y
Shirreff Hall Dance |Valuable Model

The young ladies of Shirreff Hall
entertained at a very enjoyable dance on
Monday evening the 8th instant. The

Histology Dept

Professor R. J. Bean has received a

guests were received by Miss Lowe and valuable addition to the equipment of the

House-President Florence MacMullen
and dancing commenced promptly at
8.30 o'clock. The music was splendidly
rendered by Joe Mills Orchestra and the
Hall’s beautiful dining room lent its
classic loveliness to the making of a
charming ballroom scene. The drawing
room, library, and reception hall provided inviting sitting-out-places and
the evening passed away very pleasantly.
Much credit is due to the committee in
charge which consisted of Phyllis Hilton,
Jean MacRae, Dorothie Berry, Anna
Wilson, Alice Atherton and Katherine
McLeod. ,

The honored guests were Professor and
Mrs. Donald McIntosh, and Professor
and Mrs. Henry F. Munro, while the
guest list included: Messrs. Jack Harrington, W. M. Outhit, Fletcher Smith,
Gerald Godsoe, _Evan Thompson,
Stewart Stevenson Vance Fraser, Jarvis
McCurdy, Phillip Allison, Donald MeInnis, Harry Bell, James Mitchell,
john Dobson, Gordon McKinnon, Hughie Turnbull, Charles Johnson, John
McCleave, John Byron, John Loche,
Charles McKenzie, Robert Slayter,
Charles Smith, Henry Godsoe, Con
Upham, Rod McLecd, Harold Grant,
Jack Morris, Gordon Frame, Borden
Tupper, Hugh Eaton, Herbert Harris,
Owen Armstrong, Leonard Fraser, George

Duneau, Walter Dechman, Aubrey
Price, Ralph Morton, Ernest Doull,
Douglas McDonald, Gerald Marshall,

Ben Guss, Bruce Stevens, Ralph Hebb,
Albert Smith, Harold Price, Wm. Wickwire, Gordon Grant, Rex Moore, Harold
Coffin, Blenus Morton, Clarence Bethune
| orrest Musgrave, George McIntosh,
George Puddington, Herbert Morton,
Jack McQuarrie, Norman Blanchard,
Roy Wilson, Wm. Clark, Ewan Clark,
Clifford Grant, Aulden Harrison.

FEBRUARY.

The days have been so cold! :
The sparkling river
Has been arrested on its hurrying way, .
And now is silent; for,
That One Great Giver
Has made it pause, and given it rest
to-day.
The days have been so cold:
The sparrows shiver
And cuddle in the eaves, their only home
And cheep for food, for they, :
Unlike the river,
Must feed themselves wherever they may
roam.

The days have been so cold!
ce ee Winter
as taken pity on the tiny plants,
And laid a blanket thick? i
Of fluffy whiteness,

To comfort, and to warm them in their

trance.
M, M. S., '29,

 

Histology Department in the form of a

model of the human central nervous
system,
[The model is about seven feet in

height and consists of a series of sections
shaped and colored to represent accurately the form and arrangement of the
tissues ef the brain and spinal cord at
various levels. Upon the model each
of these sections is enlarged twelve diameters, and each is based on tracings
made from lantern projections of actual
tissues. The nerve tracts are represented
by bundles of variously colored cords.
The ends of the cords are knotted and
unlaid into their component strands to
represent cell bodies, dendrites, axones
and terminals and when in place each
tract bears its appropriate label.

The model is perect in every detail
and is valued in the vicinity of five hundred dollars.

Phi Kappa Pi
Entertains

_On Friday evening the Phi Kappa Pi
Fraternity held their annual dance at
the Nova Scotia Yacht Squadron.
Although Old Man Weather did his
best to make it impossible to hold the
dance, he forgot he had to reckon with
Ernie and his committee. As it was
impossible fer cars to reach the club
house the committee had three large
sleighs take the members and_ their
friends there

After Gordon Fago had introduced
those present, Allan MacLean and his
orchestra settled down to play for the
best dance yet. During the intermission
“Kelly” MacLean gave an exhibition
step dance. Pill Wickwire was also called upon to entertain the guests and he
gave a delightful exhibition of the
Charleston. (Cne step only).

At one A, M. everyone voted the dance
the best yet and the Frat. boys jolly good
lellows. The sleighs were then brought
into action and everyone went home tired
but happy.

rhe committee in charge of the dance
were, A. k.. Doull, J. Burchell, H. Turnbull and Kelly MacLean. The Chaperones were Mrs. G. McG. Mitchell and
Mrs. H. E, Campbell.

”_—_—_——

The Player’s Guild of University College presented at the Woman's Union on

Jan, 20th H. G. Wells’ “Th :periencod Ghoet." ells e Inexperienc

—_—_

The Trinity College Dramatic Society
will present John Maesfield's ‘The
Tragedy of Nan,” in Hart House Theatre
Toronto, in February.
 

 

       

 

a eS ay
set Pay ae ee tas oo la 3
Ay ES SS oS a
re = Ra at soe hs i a ll ‘= + a" r
os SE ae en aan
Pee eee a ee
ee im ES f *
fa é oe 3 see mi +i a Pe i ay “s 2 ee > ' _ ‘a
eee fe Ls ae el ye 4
a € f * :
26 ; DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
JUSIAN ABROAD. | World has gathered unto itself so much | Dal Glee and
a - . ___—‘| that is of material, artistic and historic | ° FF
ued from page 1,col. 2. _ | Yalue. The very name London, con-| — Dramatic Ciub
A 1, ___| jures up a vast array of scenes—West_One would never guess | iinster Abbey with its Poets’ Corner,

   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
  
    
  
   
 
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  

   
    
   
  
  

oe ee ee place that
dergone German occupaovery of that little eaiaay

e war is marvellous.

the Stone of Scone and the Grave of the |
Unknown Soldier; the Houses of Parliament; Whitehall and the Cenotaph;
ee res Trafalgar Square and Charing Cross
: i aa with its legend; the Strand; Piccadilly,
rg ee ke he eee Hyde Park with its parade of fashion
Avery sigh of prosperity: and its Sunday soap-box orators; Rotten

y sign
ates what took place there
oe pt here and there
-d factory,—a ruined Cathedreconstructed,—a_ deep
re pan, an old shell-hole,
f

horseman goes for his morning canter;
Buckingham Palace with its peruceaie
Life Guards in their red and gold uniforms and huge, black, furry hats; the
Mall; the turbid Thames covered almost
from sight by innumerable long. flat
barges; anon Bridge; the grim Tower
of London in possession of the Yeomen
of the Guard, who are commonly known
as ‘“‘Beefeaters” from a legendary
privilege belonging to. them of taking
away from the Annual New Year's
feast as much beef as they could carry
ona fork; these and many such places
steeped in lore became very familiar
to us as the days passed by and we at
last began to understand and appreciate
the loyalty of the Britisher in clinging
to the traditions with which his country
is saturated.

One of the famous ceremonies often
repeated is that of the surrender of the
sword at the entrance of the King into
the City of London. The Lord Mayor
of London is complete sovereign within
his domain of one square mile and the
King cannot make an official entry into
that territory without being received

him. So on the occasion of a Royal
visit a string is stretched across the
Street from Temple Bar to the buildings
opposite. The Lord mayor approaches,
bearing his jewelled sword of office
which he hands over to the King. The
King invariably returns it with the

wi ,—a few criss
f filled with water—

Paris however there is a difference.
never forget my first impression of
We arrived at midnight, it seem
midday. Some of the students
Sorbonne were at the Gare du
| meet us, waving Canadian flags,
us directions as fast as they could
ch and gesticulating excitedly
hey were not understood. They
ed us across the City down Aven| Boulevards past the Arc de
mphe to our hotel. Then followed
sion of days of which I shall not

- to given an account. We
all places of interest, the Louvre,
theon, the Dome des Invalides,
uartier latin with its bohemian
studios, artists and students,
‘ttre with its cabarets, Notre
the Bois de Boulogne. We
the Eiffel Tower, saw the Follies
Casino, and heard the Opera.
he greatest tributes we received
whole tour was when we entered
Opera. The orchestra of
fifty pieces greeted our apby playing “Oh Canada.”
y a thousand opera glasses were
1 our direction and we were
undergo the trial of being scruby the most critical eyes in the
those of the fashionable Parisian.
side of Paris, Severes, Fontaine‘and Versailles attracted us,—
ailles especia!ly because of the sign‘the Peace Treaty which terminated
the Great War. The Palace itself is
_ magnificent, and the gardens beautiful,

0s conventional in design. The
Petit Trianon, where Marie Antoinette
_ played at being a farm girl, stands as shjeft it, and is rather pathetic in its
“ hat impressed me most was the
s e temperament of the French
a curious mixture of gaiety and
ncholy; they are at all times courte
ire

words, “You, my lord, are the best
Limehouse is perhaps the worst part of
the London slums. There are places
where it is extremely unsafe to go even
when attended by a guide, and at all
times it is the better part of wisdom to
hold tightly to your purse. It has been
said that in Petticoat Lane, there is
scarcely a single article for sale on the
stalls which has not been ‘lifted’ from
one of the large, well-known shops of the
City; and a tale is told cf a man losing
his watch at one end of the stieet, and
everything is spectacular, ap
custodian.“ The string is withdran
and the King is allowed to enter.
having it sold back to him at the other—
so daring are the thieves!
the surrounding country and had many
Henley, Maidenhead, Windsor Castle,
motor-trips through Kent and Surrey.
at the British Empire Exhibition, Wempages.
was the Shakespeare Country, the quaint
its neighborhood. There we saw acted
Company of Randle Ayrton who were
festival. This in itself was an education,
where we embarked for Canada.
throughout the tour was the fact that
_ where tat was represented by
te SP convencicil, versities predominated and at times the
!

m the nobility down to the taxivers, though I Ske adicit: that the
er have a constantly extended palm,
"seeking the pourboire. If cne speaks
e. peach, however, one can conduct one, “with savoir faire on most occasions
d avoid any unpleasant situations,
was greatly delighted to find my French
nderstood by the Parisians, except for
the fact that it sometimes entailed extra
duties. For instance I had to act as
interpreter at times and when at Fon-tainebleau was obliged to respond to the
toasts in French at a banquet held in our

Pa “Tq Belle France” certainly fulfilled
all my expectations and I had no wish
i leave when the time of departure
‘came. But we were yet to visit London.
— London and Paris are as different from

vach other as it is possible to be. Paris—

a
7

Besides its fine aristocratic section,

London also has its darker side and the

district around the docks known as

While in London we did not neglect

delightful excursions up the Thames to

Eton and Hampton Court as well as

One never-to-be-forgotten day was spent

bley, but to tell of it would take many

The last place we visited in England

little town of Stratford-upon-Avon and

at the Memorial Theatre a number ol

Shakespeare's plays, by the famous

in town to celebrate the Shakespeare

The next day we set off for Liverpool

One source of continual regret to me

| out of two hundred Canadian University
eee
| Toronto and MeGill Unitr i i j n rere totally subae, : ding aristocratically | "ames of other colleges were
- ae fen interest 18 anybody's business,| merged. There is no reason why the
oy: ctisti ctly a man’s city. Women tudents of Dalhousie should not seize
a = heir gowns as Paris dictates; the opportunity, which perhare comes
ly. ée verned by the standards of | but once in a lifetime, of seeing Europe
Be end Street for themselves and experiencing the

road. Street. i hich arises
one i cked | lasting pleasure and benefit whic
 . Our weeks in London were pa ee reece,

_ with interest, since the Capital of the

NEXT WEEK
MON., TUES., WED.

“TIME THE COMEDIAN”

BRILLIANT SOCIETY
DRAMA

*

 

—_

 

A Complete
Musical Service

Everything that Students
require in Music, including
small instruments Of every
description. Sheet Music &
Music Books will be found

b)
ou

—

ail

eee ee

i

e

“
\

|| PHINNEY’S Limited

414 BARRINGTON ST.

With Lew Cody and Mae Busch

of

P
.

THUR., FRI., SAT.

“The Calgary Stampede”

ACTUALLY FILMED AT
THE CALGARY RODEO OF
1925. CANADA'S GREATEST
OUTDOOR ATTRACTION.
FEATURING HOOT GIBSON.

   
  
 
  

; if
v
i :
x
i is
q .
ae

+ fie eee

yo
eco

DO NOT FORGET HER
AT EASTER
: _ Flowers are appropriate but not

a

any more so than a lasting useful

a2

j}_ gift selected at BIRKS.

I will think of you every time

 

|
i

=
a

ae: —

a ‘
r 7

 

; «'e

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
"First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

    
     
     

Row or the Ruz du Roi where each noble | ;

A record-breaking entertainment and
a record-breaking audience—such is the
record of last Wednesday night, when the
Glee and Dramatic Club presented its
second offering for the new year.

The entertainment consisted of two
parts—a musical programme and a oneact play produced by members of the

aculty.

Prof. E. L. Schofield of the Conservatory of Music, opened the programme
singing an Aria from Faust ‘‘Avant de

uitter”. His fine resonant voice held
the audience spell bound and much to
the delight of all he appeared agaia later
in the evening giving three short songs—
“Il neige” by ernberg; ‘Border
Ballad” by Cowen and a Southern love
song ““O! Mis’ Hanah” by Deppen.

A duet—‘'Marche Militaire,”” Schubert— played by Dr. E. G. Young and
Miss M. Musgrave, came next and was
excellently done. The Gasetie hopes that
when they ars made “solo”, they will
keep together as well as they do in a
“duet”! Dr. W. H. H. Beckwith then
favored us with two songs ‘‘Up from

Somerset” by Sanderson and “John”
by Lohr. His Mellow voice was never

heard to better advantage and he was
ably assisted by Mrs. Beckwith at the
piano.

Two violin solos played by Mrs. W.
A. Affleck followed. They were (a)
“Czardas” by Michiels and (b) a piquant
waltz ‘‘La Zarzuela’ by Lacome. Mrs.
Affleck captivated her audience by her
spirited and vivacious interpretations.
Prof. Harry Dean, Directer of the Conservatory, was at the piano; and, as he
assisted Prof. Schofield als>, no small
measure of the evenings’ success was due
to his artistic accompaniments.

The final. number was extremely
novel and eagerly anticipated by the
audience. It comprised four solos played
by Dr. B. Babkin on his native Russian
instrument—the balalaike The compositions were (a) ‘‘Night”; (b) ‘‘Moonshine” (one could not help thinking of
Oft in the ‘“‘Stilly” Night!); (c) Waltz;
and (d) Gavotte—composed by Dr.
Babkin himself. The sweet tone of the
facinating instrument was a delight to
hear and Miss E. Taylor at the piano
provided the perfect, subdued accompaniment which was necessary in order
that Dr. Babkin's interpretations might
he heard to. the best advantage.

The eagerly-awaited play now began
amid much realistic cannon firing. It was
a one-act comedy by Booth Tarkington
entitled ‘‘Bimbo the Pirate."” The farce
was written as a skit vpon several well
known pirates of the olden days who
possessed the highest moral traits in
some ways, and actually attempted to
justify their piratical actions as quite
*xcusable. All the members of the cast
were excellent—each taking his or her
part with great skill. Prof. H. P, Bell
as the non-swearing Capt. Deuteronomy
Bimbo was very good and actually
succeeded ia maintaining the essential
requisite of his title during the entire
play. Prof. Theakston as the gunner
was perhaps the most lively and realistic
of the cast. We were glad to see that
Prof. MacDonald can prey on commerce
with the same ability as he can play for
Commerce. Prof. George Henderson
and Miss Orphea McNutt in their respective roles of Mr. Driscoll, the captured
merchant and his daughter Lydia, gave
convincing characterizations of the frenzied terror which can fill the human heart
when it knows not what awaits it. As
the mate of Mr. Driscoll’s ship, Prof.-C.
L. Bennett did a strenuous part with
“A plus” excellence, wrenching a “‘spikenailed” chair from the floor with amazing
ease to defend his sweetheart Lydia.

As usual, the costumes and stage
settings were all that could be desired—
the Glee Club’s sincere thanks being due
to Major Prideaux for invaluabl2 assistance in this line. It is to be hoped that
the realization of their dramatic capa
Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR
STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harr Curtine is sure
satisfy. Laprigs’ Harn Cutrine in all
styles; also Cumirnc, SHampoomnc and
Massacina. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Phone $4780 _— 41. Sackville St.

 

to give a short play each year in future
for they certainly can act and nobody
can say ‘‘may be.”

Criticism of Shaw’s
St. Joan

ustification for Joan’s Fate and
ether interesting points
dealt with.

J

The following are a few striking excerpts from an article by Prof. A. 5S. P.
Woodhouse of Manitoba University entitled “‘Shaw’s Dialogues Probable Impossibilities!”

St. Joan is at once a historical drama
and a tragedy—The title “‘St. Joan” a
Chronical Play, shows clearly that Shaw
had the Elizabathan type of play in
mind—One brilliant scene, to me the
most interesting in the play, is set in
the tent of the English commander.

There Shaw gives to Warwick and
Cauchon something of his own boasted
insight into medieval history. It is impossible to understand St. Joan, says
Shaw unless you understand mediaeval
Catholicism, the Holy Roman Empire,
and Feudalism. You must also, if you
are to accept the Shavian interpretation of Joan of Arc, know something of
the forces that emerged to do battle
with this trinity of powers, namely,
Protestantism or individualism, and
Nationalism. Nothing is more remarkable in the play than the manner
in which Shaw conveys through the
mouths of Joan’s contemporaries his own
ideas on the real issue involved in
her career—Cauchon and Lemaitre have
to make intelligible, not only themselves, but the church and the Inquisition just as Warwick has to make the
feudal system intelligible, the three between them having thus to make a
twentieth century audience conscious of
an epoch fundamentally different from
its own. Obviously the real Cauchon,
Lemaitre and Warwick could not have
done this—In presenting Joan herself,
no such device is used. The saint is a
genius but she is completely unconscious of the mighty forces ranged for
and against her; and she goes on blindly to her doom. Life to Joan, as perhaps to all reformers, is simplified to
the point of wunreality. What she
sees is not a death struggle between
the rival spirits of two ages but a very
deplorable situation in her beloved
France—St. Joan like more than one
of the heroes of Carlyle is at once visionary and practical; her insight comes
in the form of intuitive perceptions,
not as the result of patient enquiry.
She explains this insight to herself and
to others as a direct revelation but is
nevertheless susceptible of the reasoned
defence which she cannot give it. Her
councils are practical councils; they
take Orleans and they crown the Dauphin,

Some people will say that Joan was
too virtuous and too noble for the
world in which she lived. Others will
see in her character a fatal lack of
knowledge about herself and about her
surroundings, the shoal on which many
a tragic hero has foundered. Both
judgments are probably true. The
close of the play is profoundly tragic.
That Joan’s death is not a punishment
for crimes worthy of death goes without
saying—In the epilogue there is a
magnificent tribute of the people who
had killed Joan or had let her be slain.
The Princes of the Church praise thee
—The dying soldiers praise thee.—The
tormentors and the executioners praise
thee.

According to Shaw the fate of Joan
was inevitable. She was not condemned herself—She and her judges alike
did what they did for the best. That
is the pity of it. If Joan had been condemned by corrupt men, if she had
been condemned for the sake of the
cause for which Warwick stood then
we should have had melodrama perihaps, but not tragedy. Shaw is quite
specific on this point. There are no
villians in this piece, says Shaw—She
was condemned by innocent, nay by
benevolent men, not by criminals. It
jis what normally innocent people do
that concerns us—We experience the
emotions of pity and terror; pity that
St. Joan should perish; terror lest we
should be found among her judges—A
great tragedy helps to clear our vision.
It makes us doubt our individual wisdom; it increases our charity towards

——————————

 

the weakness of others; at the same time
it sharpens our perception of human
weakness and nobility. That in some
measure at least is the effect achieved
by Shaw’s “St. Joan.”

‘‘Eversharp’’ Leads

FREE

give an EXTRA
‘Eversharp’

 

  

We fll r pencil and
Box FREE with every
Pencil this month

50c UP

KELLYS Ltd.
GRANVILLE STREET

ee _ _.—”_n—n—n— — s.l_”_

   
        
     
       

Page Three

 

bilities will lead the professors to decide} PRETTY MUSICAL PLAY TO BE

PRESENTED BY DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS.

Friday, February 26th, is the date set
for the presentation of the Glee Club, big
1926 Musical Comedy, ‘Honi Soit—’
On that night the gymnasium ought to be
packed. for the managing committee are
doing thzir utmost to secure proper settings and costumes for this bright musical
play. The show, which is being directed
by J. P. Connolly is complete with the
best opera music, side-cracking comedy,
and pretty dancing. It is entirely a Dalheusie production and from start to finish
ought to be a great success. When the
curtain goes up fer ‘“‘Heni Soit—’’ every
student and friend of Dalhousie should
be there.

DELTA GRAMMA MEETING

The regular meeting of Delta Gamma
for Saturday, February 6th, took the
form of a skating party. Having relieved
themselves of much surplus energy in
divers antics and gymations at the Dal.
rink the ,irls returned to Shirreff Hall.
In the absence of the President, the
short business meeting was in charge of
the Vice-President, Jean Messinger.
The Junior-Senior criticism was well
discussed but no definite decision about
it was reached, The proposal to abolish
it altegether, was offered, but before
such an important change could be made
in our unwritten constitution more
members must be present. Hot coffee,
brown bread and doughnuts ended the
discussion and after a pleasant social
chat before the fire, the meeting broke up.

POUR RIRE.

A Versailles, dans l’immense cour du
Chateau, Marie—sept ans et demi—
est en contemplation devant la statue
équestre de Louis XIV, dressée sur son
haut piédestal. Elle in terroge:

—Quel est ce monsieur, papa, qui est
monté sur ce grand cheval?

—Le roi Louis XIV, ma petite.

—Et qu’est-ce qu'il fait, ce roi?

—Rien—rein—il est mort.

Un silence. Marie réfiéchit:

Dis, papa, quand je serai morte, tu me
choisiras un cheval pas trop grand
et pas trop méchant, n’est-ce pas?

Une malade est chez le docteur.
Celui-ci l’ausculte, la price de lui montrer
sa langue. Aprés l’avoir examinee:
Votre langue, madame, est bien
meilleure aujourd’ hui, D?’ici trois
quatre jours, vous  pourrez
reprendre votre activité habituelle.

l'H6tel de Chateau Fronténac,

Québec,

Ma Note, garcon, s’il vous plait

—Uncouvert. Un filet. Un petit pois.
Pas defromage. Une demi-bouteille
de Beaune. Un fruit. 80 francs.
Pas dé cigare?

— Non, pas de cigare.

—80 francs et pas de cigare: 85. Voila,

m'sieur! SOUVENIR.

A

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices.

Light Lunches and Ice Cream

ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

 

HIGH JEWELRY FAIRLY
H. C. HENDERSON

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville

 

 
 

 

 

SSS
4 —

  
 

| Tothes Simm at the Colleges
SUITS, OVERCOATS

and FURNISHINGS

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

    
     
     
   

 

Engineering Notes

Lecture by Mr. T. Locke.

The third of the Engineering Society's
series of lectures was delivered on February 5th by Mr. T. J. Locke, the district
engineer of public works, Although
advertised as ‘‘The Value cf Experience
to the Engineer,’’ yet the main idea running through the talk might have been
called ‘‘Commonsense in Engineering”,
andas such it containeda great many valuable suggestions for the embryo en,ineer.

Thespeaker defined engineering as
“The Art of directing the great sources
of power in nature for the use and benefit
of man.” Engineering is perhaps the
oldest profession. The Creator was an
engineer. The Egyptians with their
mighty pyramids, the Greeks with their
marvellous buildings, and the Romans
with their magnificent system of roads
which are still in existence in Europe,
all show a greater knowledge of the
skill and technique of engineering than
can be found in the world of to-day.
For a man to be the agent in carrying
out any of these great works he must
have four inherent qualities to act as a
foundatien for future training, viz. Devotion to duty, Doggedness, Discretion,
and Courage. In addition he must
have a technical training, and following
this he must have what is most important
of all, experience. This experience
should be of the roughestt kind. In
former times a man had to_ serve
a five years apprenticeship before he
became a full fledged artisan, and he had
to pay for this as a great privilege, But
training is the keynote of success. Dealing with the college education of the
engineer, Mr. Locke said that the associations formed at college were the foundation for the “esprit de corps’’ which must
exist between engineers if the prefession
is to keep advancing. Always be loyal
to you calling, .

Visit to the Sackville Exchange.

On February 6th the Engineers took
their second inspection trip of the season,
when they were conducted through the
various departments of the Sackville
Telephone xchange. ‘The first section
visited was that containing the purely
automatic machinery. Here were found
the long-distance relays which amplily
the voice on distant messages, the ringing
motor supplying the ringing power for
all the telephones, on the Sackville
exchange, and the measured service
register which keeps count of all calls
through professional phones. The most
interesting thing seen here was the
trouble board, a comparatively unimportant looking piece of mechanism,
but one, which, with a skilled »perator
in charge can show the location ol
trouble on any of the telephone lines,
down to the wire strung between two
poles.

The next section visited was _ the
Sackville central with its many switchbeards and “hello” girls. Here was
something of great interest and the
Engineers watched with attention the
operations and .the operators. Each
central has a certain number of subscribers to serve, but she is so situated
that she can connect up any one of these
subscribers with any other telephone
user in Halifax. This is managed by
having the switchboards arranged in
multiple-series, with a certain number of
girls to each series. The long-distance
Operators are placed at smaller switch
beards in a separate room, Two highly
trained operators placed apart at special!
boards, supervise the work of all the
operatcrs and make reports on the service
For the training of all these girls a
course is given for the newccmers. After
a short period of training the girls are
stationed between two skilled operators,
and soon become highly proficient at
their work. After watching for a short
time, the Engineers decided that even
with Mechanics they felt rather lost in
the maze of lines, and that the telephone
girls had them all beaten as far as
“plugging-in” their work was concerned.
a

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «2 Potted Plants

‘We make up Funenat Desrons,
eppinc Bouquets. We
also do Tape sees eee =

TD. Pode We con vi
’. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night’Phone Sac. 1934

z ke
i. a Fe
ee pee att

 

 

‘Crescents win the City Hockey

League.

Captured the title which Dal had last
year by defeating Dartmouth 9-8 in a
very close and well played game.

Sport Time Table.

Fri. 12 Dal vs. Y. M. C, A, at the
“Y" Intermediate Basketball. Important game.

Sat. 18 Dal vs. Y. M. C. A. at the
“Y" Senior Basketball. Deciding game.

Tues. 16 Dal vs Crescents, Arena,
Senicr Hockey. Pine Hill vs. St. John
at Military Gym.

 

Senior Basketball

Dalhousie 35—Wanderers 14.

Dalhousie took another step towards
the top when they beat the Wanderers
last Saturday night in a rather slow and
listless game. It was really too onesided
to be exciting, besides Dal wasn't playing
her usual game at all. It started off
slowly both sides trying long shots but
failing to register. Then Dal woke up
and ran in 20 points, keeping the Wanderers down toa lone 2. In the second the
play was somewhat closer and netted
Dal 15 to the Wanderers 12. But even
the closeness of the score if the second
failed to preduce much better basketball.
Dal’s shooting in spite of the large score
was far from accurate and it was only the
worse shooting of their oponents that
enabled them to win at all. They will
have to show far better form against
the “Y” next Saturday night if they
hope to win. Next Saturday is the big
game of the League. A win for Da
puts her on even terms with the ‘Y’
a lose practically give ‘‘Y’’ the League
So remember Dal vs. ‘‘Y” next Saturday
night.

Line up:—Langstroth 7, McLennan 14,
McLeod 10, Doyle 4, Smith, Bradshaw
refereed satisfactorilly.

 

Intermediate
Basketball

Dalhousie 42—St. George’s 18.
Pine Hil! 20— Y. M. C. A, 22.

Dalhousie beat St. George’s and Pine
Hill went down to defeat before the
Y.M.C. A.at the ‘Y" last Friday night.
In the Pine Hill game the excitement was
intense for in the second period Pine
Hill came from behind and exactly
doubled the score of their opponents.
During this game also the Pine Hill}.
rooters had a share in the fun for Referz2
Williams called a foul on the gallery and
awarded free shcts to the ‘“Y"’ as a result.
The finals score was 22-20. The Dalhousie team on the other hand gave
St. George’s a severe trouncing. St.
George’s were forced to play with only
four men as two of their players had
subbed at too many Senior games.
They very sportingly went on the floor
however, and in spite of their handicap
gave a very good account of themselves.

Line Up:—Pine Hill—Richardson 6,
McLennan, Blenkinsop 2, Brown 12,
Frame, Sullivan, H. Frame, McLean,
MacIntosh, Ross, Williams of the “Y”
referee.

Dalhousie—Clark 17, Hewat 17, Miller 8, Jones 2, Sperry 2, Bradshaw of the
“Y" referee.

 

You know the rest of this

ALPHA BETA alphabet, but won't you
k

learn the music from a Music Dealer's Text
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, etc,

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

 

Cable Address: “McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald
Barristers, Souicitors &c.

HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C, Macdonald, K. C

pman

pe F. B. A. Chi
E. MacKay

A. Lovett, K. C, N.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Girls
Dal 1£—St. Agnes 11.

Dal. Girls had a very close shave
against the St. Agnes in the City Girls
Basketball fixture last Tuesday week.
They were minus some of their regular
players end, were so forced to play all
their subs, It was. asa result, very closely contested and well payed, However
Jal managed to come out victors.

Line up:—Forwards. Phinney, Thompson; Centers: Mckay, M. Thompson;
Guards: McPhail, Freeman.

Though Miss Thompson scored all
the baskets for Dal yet her partner Miss
Phinney played a very excellent game and
was indirectly responsible for many of
them.

 

  

924.00

Suit or
Over Coat

Best value

 

 
  
  
  

to your measure.
in Canada.

See the many advantages
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your

 
    

clothes.

   

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

Zs art aS

FOR. MEN
Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to ‘keep up appearances.
These very men are the fellows you see
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords
and Spats.

OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Wallace Bros. |
\ 523 BARRINGTON ST. po

ALLEN’S |

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

    
 

  

ALSO

School and Colleg. i ext Books

Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

MAJESTIC

SPECIAL PHOTO PLAYS
ALL ORCHESTRA SEATS
RESERVED EVENINGS
SEATS NOW ON SALE.

THUR), FRI.,-SAT.
Constance Talmadge
N

I
HER SISTER FROM PARIS

THE PEPPIEST PICTURE
OF THE YEAR.

SEATS NOW ON SALE
STRAND
NOW PLAYING

MAE EDWARDS CO.

SPEND A GOOD EVENING
COME EARLY

 

 

|

 

Interfaculty

 

Arts 26—Commerce 10.

In the only game Saturday afterncon
the Arts men beat Commerce in a rather
ood game. The Arts men were never
orced to extend themselves very much
in order to win. Clark who is developing into a quite good player was the best
man for Arts, while Grant was the pick
of the Millionaires.

Arts:—Hockin 4, Jardine, Clark 10,
Keating 12, Ross, Hood.

Commerce :—MeéColl, Macdonald 2, Mcduff, Snow,
Grant 6, Miller 2.

Harris,
Matheson,

Cleaning Clothes and

Pressing Them is

A Real Science
Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying

System which revives your

clothes,
*PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

All-round Excellency

‘Astoria’
SHOES

For Men

Stand out as the Leaders in
Canadian Footwear.

W. t Tans

|
|
SHOE DEALER

Barrington St., Spring Garden Road
: and Dartmouth

For Distinctive Style and

i

From The

WINNERS From 1

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX N. S.

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

      

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

    
     

=ALSO—|

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

  
   

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

  

 
 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE
Y. M. C. A. Bldg.

Optometrist & Optician

Him—‘The . Committee

 

 

February 11th, 1926

 

% SPORT NEWS 3%

Changes of 20 years

 

From horses and bicycles to motor cars
and airplanes, such inovations as the
radio and the telepix photo and their
like, have characterized the rapid strides
made by man during the first quarter of
the twentieth century. With unerring
accuracy ‘TIME, THE COMEDIAN”
which will be shewn at the Casino
Theatre for three days beginning next
Monday, presents a great kaleidoscope
of the changes in customs and mannerisms that have influenced the course of
modern history. It is one of the most
brilliant society dramas of recent years
and has an extraordinary great cast
headed by Lew Cody and Mae Busch.
Of particular interest to Canadians
will be the feature for the last half of the
week, ‘“‘THE CALGARY STAMPEDE”
for the reason that, for the most part,
the film was made in Canada, the great
Calgary Rodeo of 1925 being used as the
background for a thrilling story of the
West in which Hoot Gibson plays the
leading role.

First Sho—'‘How will I put down the
hat in my expense account?”

Second She—‘‘Oh, just charge it to
overhead expense.”

First—‘‘Then what about these silk
stockings?”

Second—‘‘Necessary expenses or Running account.”’

Prof.—‘‘What was the Star Chamber
personnel, Mr, New?”
on Studies
and Attendance, sir!”

MAN ELOPES WITH HIS OWN
WIFE AT THE MAJESTIC.

Constance Talmadge, impersonating
‘Her Sister From Paris’’—a twin sister—
vamps ber husband and induces him to
elope with her. But this is only the beginning of a series of clever and delightful
misunderstandings. Ccnstance and Ronald Colman, her husband, finally discover that they are indispensible to one
another and the picture ends.

“Janice Meredith” is the offering at
the Majestic the first half of next week.
The famous story of the Revolution is
known to everybody. All the leading
characters of the Revolution appear in
the pl.y ane lend a mos* realistic and historic background to the romance in
which Marion Davies stars. It is unsurpassed for magnitude, dramatic sweep
and splendor of settings and costumes.
It is the most authentic picture of the
Revolution, yet produced, and combines
with it the greatest of all famous love
romances.

For the convenience of their patrons
the Majestic are presenting but one
performance each evening commencing
at 8.15. The whole of the lower floor is
reserved and tickets may be obtained in
acvance.

Winter-Burns Ltd.

Correct Dress For Students

437 Barrington Street

The Dress Shop
The Hat Shop
The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

 

 

 

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail.

Jensen & Mills Co. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

When in Town

GET THE

Three Essentials

Pure Food and Candy

Prompt and Courteous
Service

Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

Geo. Alexander

¥
Zs

3.

427 BARRINGTON ST.

Exclusive Agents For
Society Brand Clothes

 

 
