,

ae

    

f

k

Criticism.
_ Dalhousie Students; and what they may

Hi
Al

Mh

mom bo

’

—

VOL. LXVIII NO. 14

Libraries opened
to Students

To the Editor
The Dalhousie Gazette.

Sir:—Let me, through the columns of
The Gazette, inform undergraduate and
post-graduate students at the University
that the Nova Scotia offices and libraries of the Public Archives of Canada, are
at their service.

The offices are now well appcinted and
inviting; and the libraries can rapidly
be ase by students who are interested
in Canadian, Nova Scotia, United States
and British, social, political, economic,
educational, and literary history. There
is a special room, with long table and
chairs, for students doing original research; and there is another room neatly
appointed fer the use of any student who
‘may wish to work here quite alone.

‘The walls of all rooms are hung with
colored, prints, water-color sketches,
original maps and photostat copies of

-maps and plans, all illustrating the
history of Halifax and Nova Scotia from
earliest times. There are rare and late
books dealing with the history of our
country and Canada in general: General
Histories, County Histories, Township
Records, all sorts of rare pamphlets,
beoklets, and monographs.

I herewith call the attention of Dalhousie University students to these facts,
and extend to them a cordial invitation
to make use of the Public Archives of
Canada. Both myself and Miss Kinnear, assistant archivist, will gladly
serve to our utmost students who are
preparing essays or theses or who are
doing special research work in any period
of Canadian history; and should we not
have “in stock” any special document
or pamphlet or book desired, we shall
obtain it from the Archives at Ottawa.

This is in line with my policy of correlat
ing all the libraries in the city.
og me add specially that I have hous
ed in the Archives at Halifax my own

wries of Philosophy, Sccial and Politi
1 Science, and works on Aesthetics and
on Literary and Aesthetic History and
These also are available to

not be atle to obtain from the bcoks
here, they can get by interrogating myself as philosopher and friend.

J. D. LOGAN, Dal. '92
Associate Archivist, the
Public Archivies of
Canada.
Halifax, Fet. 11, 1926.

 

Junior-Senior Dance
MOST ENJOYABLE IN YEARS.

The annual reception given by the
ee Class in honor of the Seniors was
eld in the Studley Gymnasium on
February 12th. Contrary to what there
might be expected, there were none of the
evidenceso{ grief usually characterizing
a farewell function. Perhaps the Juniors
themselves were unconsciously looking
forward to the day when they would
occupy the eminence of the Senior Class;
while the Seniors, although they could
not but think with regret that all their
good times as a class were about over,
sternly repressed their emotions and
shouted with Byron—‘‘Cn with the
dance, let joy be uncenfined, etc.” Perthe best explanation of the air of
jollity and good fellowship is that Cupid
was the patron and swayed each responsive bosom with feelings proper to the
occasion. The fact that Valentine's
Day was very near was remembered
consistently in all the arrangements.
The bower for the orchestra had conventional heart-shaped openings barred
with spiral tissue, and was further decorated with red twin hearts on a white
background. From this bower as a centre red and white streamers radiated and,
at the eastern end were extended beyond
the junction of the annex with the main
building, thus giving a finished effect.
This is the first time this has been done
and the Juniors have established a
worthy precedent. The same cclor
scheme was. carried out in the programs which were tastefully decorated
with red hearts in each corner of the
front and a large one in the centre containing the name of the function. The
letters on the walls and the large ‘‘J unior
__ Senion’’ on the curtain were also placed

on a heartshaped background, and the
euiiiep42 eaten Gooped by 2 card
by tshaped cakes top a car
bearit user rei 1 @"
The ad of welcome was made by
Murray Iraser, President of the Junior
class, and replied to by lan McDonald,

President of the Senior Class, who mentioned the parry relations ie

ned the . h had
always existed between the two classes,

   
  
  

 

Uy

i

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 18th 1926

Mock Parliament,

LENGTHY SESSION ADJOURNS WITHOUT A VOTE BEING TAKEN
CONSERVATIVE POLICY ONE OF HINDRANCE.

 

ee

Attendant with all the color and cere-, hearty hand from the Government sup
mony worthy of such an important
occasion, the Dalhousie Mock Parliament
held its first. session on Thursday Evening, the 11th. The Eouse met in the
Munro Room and were called to wait
upon the Governor-General in the Senate
Chamber—which was the Moot Court
Room. Cn returning to the Commons
Professor A. L. MacVonald was elected
speaker—a position which he capably
filled in last year’s Parliament. Led by
their Speaker, the House returned to the
Senate Chamber where the speech from
the Threne was read by Col. W. E.
Thompson who acted as GovernorGeneral.

Mr. Gibbs, member from Newfoundland East who moved the address in
reply to the Speech from the Throne—
took occasion to congratulate the Speak“ron his election. Continuing, he
severely criticized the opposition—especially the leader of the Liberal Party whom
he characterized as a “‘renegade’’. He
dwelt at considerable length with the
platform of the government—and discussed the grievances of the Maritimes,
and proposed remedies which the Government intended to apply. On the conclusion of his address he was given a

porters.

Miss Josephine Dresner member for
Halifax North in a brief, but nevertheless
excellent speech seconded the motion,
stressing the need of our developing our
natural resources,

The Leader of the opposition Mr, F.
W. Bissett, Jr. next took the fleor and
in a brilliant address severely assailed
the government and more particularly
the speech from the throne. He dwelt
at length on the policies of the Conservative platform—laying much stress on
the necessity of encouraging our industries. Concluding his address Mr. Bissett moved an amendment to the Address
in reply to the Speech from the Throne.

The Leader of the Liberals (R. J.
Byrne) thought that both the Government and the Conservative opposition
were a ‘“‘curse” to the people and had
only secured their majorities through a
campaign of misrepresentation and

fraud. He severely criticized the speech
ef Mr. Bissett—and the Minister of

Finance, Hon, J. G. Godsoe, as well as
the Minister of Railways and Canals
Hon. C. F. McKenzie. So vociferous
was his address that on several occasions
he had to be called to order by the

Speaker for use of unparliamcentary
language.

The spirit of criticism also found place
in the address cf the Premier—the Rt.
Hen. P. J. Lewis—who was unsparing
in his condemnation of both Liberals and
Conservatives. Premier Lewis defended
the members of his cabinet who had
been so ruthlessly attacked—and spoke
at censidzrable length on proposed legislation. He closed his address with a
plea for co-operation with the Government—in the best interests of Canada.

A motion made by Mr. Theriault that
the House adjourn was defeated by the
Government—who at this late perioa

had an absolute majority and were
desirous of defeating the opposition
amendment, To prevent this vote—

the Conservatives, showing a fine knowledge of political strategy—continued
the debate—and were prepared ‘‘to
speak all night” or rather to devote
their time to reading from Hansard.
After listening to A. J. Campbell who
quoted from Hansard for about fifteen
minutes and finally to Mr. E. J. Theriault
who spoke in French—the fourth motion
for adjournment was carried without a
dissenting vote.

It is expected that the next session of
the Mock Parliament will prove even
more entertaining and interesting than
this first—when the opposition will
make a concerted effort to remove the
Government—and enjoy the fruits of
office. [. Ge Gs

 

BROKE, BROKE, BROKE.
With Apologies to my Creditors.

Broke, broke, broke,
And a date with Kay for tea!

And ‘tis well that my tongue can’t utter
The thoughts that arise in me.

O well for the bootlegger’s boy
As he sups with his friend o’er rich
wine!
O well for the waiter lad,
As he takes a fair damsel to dine.

And the happy pairs go on
To the tea room over the hill.

But O for the sound of a clinking coin
And the crisp crinkly touch of a bill.

Broke, broke, broke,
And a date with Kay, O Gee!
But I’m feeling blue, ‘cause without a
sou, she
Will never come out with me.

Ss. B. B. C.

 

WILSON AND WOODILL WIN
TOURNAMENT.

The finals of the Studley Bachelors
Bridge Club were played on Saturday
morning between the teams of Wilson
and Woodill and Stephenson and Dustan.
It resulted in a win for the former in three
straight rubbers, the final score being
1369-88. This brings to a close the activities of this Club, for the year. In the
first year the winning team was Sedgwick
and Sangster. Last year the former
paired off with Atwood and they were
victorious. This year there were 11
teams in the Club and it was a very
successful tournament from every point
of view. It is understood that the winners will play off with last years champions in a challenge round, which should
produce some exciting competition and
draw a large gallery,

 

and considered this largely due to the
old system where the puglistic effects
were abreasted by a ‘‘fight’’ on the campus.

A pleasant feature of the supper interlude was a ballet dance by Miss Kathleen
Hagen in her peculiarly dainty winsome
style. Another delightful feature was a
shower of kisses and confette during the
thirteenth dance.

An unusually large number of professors were present among them _ being
Professors Wilson and Nichols, Honorary-Presidents of the Junior and Senior
Classes. The chaperones of the evening
were Professor and Mrs. Murray Macneill, Professor and Mrs. C. H. Mercer
and Mr. and Mrs. Martin King.

The music was supplied by the McLean’s Orchestra in a manner to satisfy
the most fastidious Terpsichorean.

DR. MacMECHAN.—The Gazette is
pleased to note that Dr. MacMechan
who has been suffering from a wrenched
shoulder, the result of a fall, is able to
resume his classes.

The Sociology Club

A few weeks ago a new society, the
Dalhousie Sociology Club, came into
being at Studley. Haven't we already
enough societies, yousay? That may be
so, yet we think there is not only room
but need for this new club. It has been
organized primarily for students of
Sociology, but all students who are interested in social problems but whose
courses may not admit of their taking
that subject, will be welcome.

The ebject of the club is to link up
academic study with the practical social
work carried on in Halifax. The mem
ers hope to meet weekly and at each
meeting to have with them some man or
woman who is daily grappling with the
problems in our midst—problems of public welfare, of poverty, of crime and who
will tell of his or her work, of its difficulties, of its hopes and possibilities. _

By means of these talks and discussions
a more intimate knowledge of social
problems and their attempted solution
will be obtained and, as this knowledge
grows and as the students realize how
deadly are these ‘‘social sores’ and how
vital to progress is their solution, it is
hoped that the club out of its knowledge
and its energy may be able to take some
part in practical social work. For no
longer can universities remain in cleistered gardens and stand aloof. They must
line up with those who are trying to bring
about a better civilization and the brotherhood of man, and this can best be
done by first having an understanding of
the problems and difficulties of our fellowmen. That the authorities of Dalhousie realise this is shown by their introducing a course in Sociology into the
curriculum; that the students are beginning to realise this is proved by the
formation of the Sociology Club.

On Thursday 11th February, Judge
Wallace was the speaker at the first
open meeting and he gave a most interesting and thought-provoking talk
on “Juvenile Delinquency,” one of the
vital social problems of to-day, He
dealt with various phases of delinquency
and with the work of the Juvenile Court
in Nova Scotia. He showed the good
results accruing from preventive work
among boys and girls who from various
causes may be delinquent, yet emphasised the fact that the best preventive of all
is good home training and parental
supervision; the dangers of unemployment and idleness, and the pernicious
influence of bad ‘movies’ and literature
were also touched on. The talk was
listened to with much interest and the
Club is very grateful to Judge Wallace
for his address.

 

**AND IN MY FUTURE LIFE SHE’S
GOING TO BE MY WIFE.”

(With Apologies to I. H. R.)

Little thing of mighty power,
Charmer of an idle hour,
Object of my warm desire,
Amber lit and eye of fire,

And thy narrow rounded waist
In my finger close embraced!—
Happy! o’er and o'er again,

Happiest he of happy men

Who, when all the grind is done,
Who, when peaceful respite's won,
Can afford his pipe to feed

With the fragrant Eastern weed.

A LULLABY.

You of the Sunset, with soft dreamy eyes
What do you see dear, far off in the
skies?
Bright little
rest,
Nodding and sighing away in the west,

Sunbeams, now going to

Here comes the Moon Lady guiding the
stars,
That timidly peep through
shadowy bars.
Sleep little drowsy one, Sandman is near:
He will take care of you,—nothing to
fear, .

Nights’

He will put sand in the tired sleepy eyes
Then whisk my drowsy one off to the
skies.
The sand is soft silver—and magic withall
So off will go Baby and never will fall.

Baby will see the Moon on Mount Byelow
Where little Prince Noddycom: often
does go.
Then in the morning light, Baby will
roam
Back to the sunny Earth, mother and
home.

Phi Rho Sigma
Holds Dance

The Medical Fraternity at Dalhousie,
Alpha Eta Chapter of Phi Rho Sigma,
began their Social Activities on Tuesday,
February 9th, with their first Dance,
held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. H.
Winfield.

The rooms were suitably decorated
with the colours of the Fraternity,
alternating with Dalhousie banners.
The guests were received by the President
of the Chapter, Mr. Murray Beardsley
and the Chaperones—Dr. and Mrs.
H. K, MacDonald.

The music was supplied by MacLean’s
Orchestra, which with the lasty refreshments enabled all those present to have a
most enjoyable evening.

The members and their guests were
Misses E. M. Phillips, Sylvia Shore,,
Kathleen McKean, Margaret Cook
Marion Campbell, Ruby Hayman, Fred
Winfield, Bessie MacDonald, Marjory
MacKinnon, Katheriné MacLennan, Bernice Green, J. E. Pamer, Miss Colpitt,
Harriett Matheson, Irene King, Ethel
Daniels, Charlotta Johnson, Margaret
MacKay.

Messrs.
Cameron,

Beardsley, Eddie,
Kenny Grant,

Murray
Bill Hewat,

 

a
it

aed
ae
—
ae
—
as
—

 

Five Cents The Copy

Medical Society
Banquet

———_~—_—_.

MEDICAL SCHOOL SUBJECT TO
CRITICISM AND DISCUSSION.

The Medical Society held their annual
banquet at the Halifax Hotel on Monday
evening, fully a hundred students being
present as well asa large r umber of guests.
Mr. Harold Robertson officiated ably at
the piano his musical numbers being
heartily applauded.

After an excellent dinner the toast to
the King was proposed by Mr. Merritt,
the President, and responded to by the
singing of the Anthem.

The toast to the University was proposed by Mr. Archibald and responded
to by Dr. Hattie. Dr. Hattie briefly
traced the history of the Medical School
and pointed out its two most outstnanding needs,—a better library and more
support for the clinical professors. He
appealed to the Alumni to give their assistance and congratulated the Society
on the great work they were doing in the
school.

Mr. H. N, Scammel next spoke, telling
of an old Pictou druggist, James Fraser,
who prepared the first chloroform on this
continent and with Dr. John Stewart was
one of the first to use the antiseptic bandage.

Harry O’Brien commended the suggestions of Dr. Hattie and brought forth the
fact that, there is much more personal
friendliness between professors and students at the Forrest Building than in any
other faculty of the University.

I. G. MacDonald, who declared that he
was expressing the general views of the
students, claimed that there was too
much time spent on cultural subjects by
the Medical Students. He also stated
that the University was too greatly under the influence of American organizations and customs, and that the Medical
School was unnecessarily subject to the
Studley Business Office.

Dr. Rehfuss, in an eloquent address,
took issue with Mr. MacDonald and
pointed out the desirability of culture in
the doctor. He regretted that idealism
seemed to be losing ground before commercialism and petty jealousies and no
present day practitioners. He entreated
them to develope their cultural work and
their personalities, and to look upon their
fellow doctors as brothers and not as
rivals.

Dr. G. H. Murphy congratulated Dr.
Rehfuss on his sentiments and phrases.
Contesting Mr. MacDonald's statements
he declared that an art and science such
as Medicine should have no national
boundaries, that the United States were
our best friends and that the Medical
School and profession owed a great part
of its success to them. Addressing himself to the students or ‘‘fellow students”
as he called them, he urged them to observe the little things in their work and
expressed the wish that they might read
Hipprocrates and see all that he had done
without the aid of laboratories, but mainly by observation and sound thinking,

In a short address, Dr. Churchill told
the students to cultivate personality and
to imbibe all the culture they could.

Dr. Atlee also stressed the need of personality in the doctor and begged that
the doctor should take a deep personal
interest in his patient and literally fight
with him against death.

A discussion then arose among the students concerning Mr. MacDonald’s remarks, both sides of the question being
eagerly upheld.

The toast to the Society was proposed
by Dr. Nicholls and responded to by Mr.
Merritt.

The meeting closed with the singing of
Auld Lang Syne.

— ——_— ——  -__--—_

In 1870.

Senior—'‘See that lady reeling slightly
as she walks?’

Junior—‘‘Yes.”

Senior—‘*Well, she does that because
she has corns.”

1925.

Senior— ‘See that Co-ed reeling when

Charley Jones, Mont Haslam, Arthur | she parades down the campus?”

Murphy, Fred Minshull, Tom Morrison,
Deug. Macdonald, lan Macdonald,

Harry Morton, Ralph Harlow, James

Reid, Johnie Thurrott, Garth Tocmbs,
Dan Wood, Gordon Winfield.

The absent-minced professor was comout cf the theater, passing the box) me who the dickens wrote ‘The
“Well,

ing
oftice he noticed it was closed.
this is unfortunate—all sold out.”

— Dartmouth Jack o' Lantern.

 

Junior—*‘Sure.”’
; Senior—‘‘Well, she has corn.”’

——-=

First Freshman—Great Scott: I can’t

remember who wrote ‘Ivanhoe”’,
Second Ditto— “I'll tell you if you tell

Tale

“THE PRISM" .

of Two Cities.”

 
7
tis t

+) Tae
eat ~ hii.

aa.
ae o>

"i,

Hit AH seks

 

 

i. we Wak a

' to the examination.


- <a = = =

Lhe Dalhousie Gasette.”

 

x (Founded 1869)
Editor-in-Chief:

Artnuur L, Murpuy, 26.

Associate Editors:

te er
Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
tat ; . Avis H, Marsuatt, 27,
uc... - Rownartp Hayes, 26.
Warren Pusiicover, 26.
J. J. Lysons Arwoopn, '28,
a

— : Financiai Editor:
eas Cuas. F. MacKenzie,

18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961,

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.
- The Examination Schedule

ti, ia ®
eye 7

a ae ee

CF? hilt

-* Although not deeply in the confidence of the Business Office of
the University, we believe that the time is drawing nigh when the

_examination time table will be drawn up. For a number of terms
past it has been the custom to set the Physics 20 and Chemistry 4
papers on the same day. This also applies to Physics 1 and Chemistry 1. The two first mentioned subjects are on the curriculum of
the second year medical student, while the other two are taken by
the first year student and all four are generally considered as very diffiéult classes. While we do not admit of being advocates of ‘‘plugging”’
and “cramming” the student must certainly review his work prior

+! So it is most unfair to him, and places him under too great a
tiental and physical strain, to oblige him to write what are possibly
his two most difficult subjects on the same day.

. The students have been greatly incensed over this in previous
sessions and we hope that this term will not bring a repetition of the
oceurrence.

tive Lt ts indubitably the student who deserves the great c msideradion during examination week and the practice of grouping the
exam. papers to suit the professors in their work of correction is also
unworthy. )

-.. . At such a time the student deserves, and must receive the ut~ «most consideration.

as €. :

‘
ES
> ;
Mile . *

 

 

'- The Annual Elections

;« .. The annual elections of executive members of the University
“or the Students’ Council and for all the societies and clubs affiliated
| thereto will be held shortly, and it behooves everyone connected
{with these institutions to do his part in promoting the best interests
.of the particular society and the student body as a whole.
‘+ -. Tuesday, February 28rd, is the nomination day for the Students’ Council and the election is on the following Tuesday, March
2nd, 1926. Discuss the prospective candidates with your fellows,
‘get their opinions on men and women whom you think are eligible for
‘office. In the past far too many executives at Dalhousie have been
elected for their popularity and not for their ability to fill office.
+ Consequently as the office holders did not have a live and burning
- interest in their work the society which they controlled became more
~atid more inactive. As an example we would point to the Glee Club
_of two yeatsago. Officers were elected without being consulted, who
_ had no desire to hold office and as a result the Glee Club for one year
was a dormant society. Contrast this state of affairs with the pre~sént year. The Glee Club's efficient officers have made their society
“thé most active one in our University life.
4 -. Therefore see to it that the most competent executive members
tare nominated and let there be ‘‘No square pegs in round holes.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

1°. ORDER

: ae YOUR’ YEAR BOOK
¢ NOW ,

rk FROM
|

H. L. SCAMMEL
-. JACK McQUARRIE
HARRY BELL

ROD. MacLEOD
ELLIOT RUSSELL
JOHN DOBSON

mi. Alumni wishing copies may send orders to
the Gazette Office.

There will be a limited number printed.

i
|| MAKE SURE OF YOURS!
, rere | :

 

i tee rl A nent nar

were

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Engineering Notes

February 18th saw the Engineers at
the Lorne Automatic telephone exchange
on their third inspection trip. To anyone who had taken in the Sackville
exctange on tke previous Saturday the
north end central was a marvel of compactress. Serving the cntire rcrikern
secticn of the city as well as the 4rmdale
subdivision and having as many phones
to care for, the equipment ts all centrally
located cn a single floor which covers a
smal er aiea than one section of the Sackville exchange. Yet in this comparatively small space is located a 100,000
line apparatus in well ordered and uncrowded pcsitions with plenty of room
to spare. .

When the equipment itself is considered, we find that because it is cl the remote control type it does net prove as
interesting as that worked directly by
manval labour. It consists for the most
part of hundrecs of little gray boxes
containing the automatic mechanism,
and the only sounds to be heard are the
manv little clicks coming from these
boxes indicating the various calls which
are being put through the exchange.
Two very interesting objects which were
found here were the demonstration board
and the new type cf automatic pay telephone. At the former were located two
telephones connected in the usual manner
with specimens of the automatic machinery and so arranged that a call could be
put through from one to the other while
observing all the intermediate cperations.
The latter was one of the new telephones
which are gradually. making their appearance through the automatic district.
{t is a very complicated instrument and
each one costs about $100, In order to
eall any number a nickle must be inserted
and if the connecticn is net obtained the
replacing of the receiver on the hook
gauses the money to return through a
special slot. Only the proper coin in
the proper slot will work this telephone,
all insufficient and improperly placed
amounts being politely returned.

The most interesting fact brought out
during the visit wasa comparison between
the huntber ‘of. employees. at the. two
exchanges. At the south end there are
between 75 and 100, at the north end
there are but 8. Here is one of the great
advantages of the automatic exchange
and an excellent reason for. the replacing
of the cumberson Sackville machinery
with the more modern equipment.
‘The Lorne exchange has been well called
“the nearest mechanically pertect
machine in Halifax.”

 

Luck

Along the busy street lined with
brilliantly lighted shops, the seething
crowd of six o'clock home seekers ebbed
and flowed. Hopeless faces eager faces—
tired faces—all passed Jim Mallory as
he stood on the curb unnoticed and unnoticing,

*To-night was the end. All through
the past two weeks, he had tramped over

Tie eg oe

February 18th, 1926

 

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufactured by
Imperial Tobacco Co of Canada, Lunited.

    
     

 

and knocked him into merciful oblivion
where he would cease the hopsless struggle!

He bought a ticket which would take
him toa town some2 distance away. Out
into the bustling train-shed he passed
along the platform down beside the long
train—ao comfortable sleeper for him—
to the day coach.
down heavily and buried
his hands striving to forget.

The train quivered and crept out from
the garish depot into the peaceful night

He stepped in, sat

his face in

the big city inquiring and answering] On it went ever gathering speed, with its

advertisements for ‘‘Male Help” and
all without avail. 3 i
story of countless months before. Ter
ribly wounded in the war, he was unable

to do strenuous physical labor even if

he could have mastered the now fast
dying spark ef pride which remained in
his heart.
Now he had resolved to the last

use

of his money, take a train and go
somewhere.

He crossed wearily to the depot,
leaned his drooping indifferent body

against a post and stood watching the
hurrying taxis as they shot in all directions over the vast square in front of him.

Suddenly one dashed up, an oldish
man stepped falteringly out and paid
his fare. The taxi leaped ints motion
again, the rear bumper catching the
man’s leg and throwing him violently
to the ground where he lay quite still,

| Jim suddenly became aware of another

pair of fast approaching lights—‘‘no
time te lose’’ he thought and he leaned
sharply forward catching hold of and
dragging the prostrate form swiftly, safely
to his side amid the muttered curses of
the careless driver.

The man lay fora time gasping weakly
then staggered to his feet. As Jim
helped him smooth his rumpled clothes,
he met the other’s appealing eyes which,
spoke his gratitude more eloquently than
Lis faltering words

‘How. ..my dear fellow... .really I.
how can | ever thank you enough.”
Jim smiled awkwardly. “‘Oh that’s all
right, sirl—glad 1 was near enough.”

He turned abruptly away with Lowed
head. Ah! if only the swerving machine

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos
SMOKERS’

REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.

 

 

It was the same old] happy,

precious cargo of human souls—some
many indifferent and at
least in despair.

The sudden roar of a passing engint
woke Jim from his reverie, He felt in
his pockets and discovering a lone cigarette there, he got up to go to the smoking
room to consume it.

On entering he was surprised to find
his new acquatntance there. Oh! well
one couldn't very well turn back now
so he sat down beside him and lit his
cigarette,

“Hope you're feeling quite O. K, now
sir? he asked.

“Quite all right—thanks to you,”
replied the man, ‘I don’t like
to think what would have happened if
if” he passed his hand over his brow.

Jim interrupted hastily ‘‘That’s all
over now—let's talk about something
more pleasant,”

one

olde r

So they sat and smoked and talked—
Jim discovering that his companion's
name was Marshall, that he owned extensive plantations in the Southern
States and that he was a widower whose
grown-up children had now left him.

‘They seem to have lost their interest
in the old place”’ he said sadly.

“But you, Mallory, you haven't told
me about yourself’’—he turned suddenly
realizing all at once no doubt that his
new and undeniably shabby, emaciated
acquaintance was quite unknown to him.

Jim was silent beneath his questioning
gaze. Must he go over the miserable
tale again—hear the samz old sympathetic comments which had become sc unbearably hackneyed to him? He could
hear it now. “I’m awfully sorry, old
man, rotten luck for you—lI regret very
much, but I’m afraid ete., etc. God:
how much he'd had to drink from the
bitter cup—and those countless letters,
bristling with the studied artificiality
of the enamelled smoothness of their
phrases!

Yes, he dreaded it anew; but something seemed to break down the barriers
of his reserve and soon he found himself
telling Marshall about his bitter struggle
to find employment from those for
whom he had struggled and fought so
bravely during the ghastly years of the
war, He painted the picture simply,
but with touching conviction; and as he
talked his new friend realized that here
was no ordinary man, but a true gentleman whom Dame Fortune seemed to
have cast aside. Through all the grime

had ‘sttuck fis aching body hard—hard his unshaven face,

my children all have their own homes to
look after and to tell the truth I’m finding
the job of keeping an eye on my business
a bit too much for me. Would you take
the job? You would of course live at
the hcuse and be really a sort of secretary,
you know answering letters and that
sort of thing.”

Jim was silent for a minute—speechless
This was tos good to be true—absolutely!
At tast—at last the sulky winds of chance

one could see the

finely-cut features and deep luminous

eyes which had once marked Jim as the

handsomest officer in his regiment.

He had finished and thought wearily
“The same old reply, | suppose.” But
Marshall had leaned forward.

‘Look here,” he said. “I know and
you know that I owe you far more than
I could ever repay you; but even so, I
also know that you'd be the last to receive
a..er..charity, as it wete.. Now you
can see that I'm no longer a young man—

had blown his way!

‘T..I'd like it immensely sir,—but
['m afraid you wouldn’t find the right
man in me,” he added desperately.

“Well, come and stay a fortnight
anyhow and we'll see how you like the
place!’”’ Marshall’s kindly old face lit
up with a friendly smile and he offered
his hand.

Jim grasped it and flashed a grateful
smile at his friend. He leaned back
sleepily thinking of the bright days to
come—while on and on rushed the train
through the dark night. Ne more
sleeping on park benches—no more dirt
and filth and grime, but a real bed and
baths—(good Lord!
that last hot bath!) and decent food
three times a day, Ah yes! life was not
so bad now—not so utterly sordid and
hopeless after all. 1

what an age since

And surely, surely
he deserved it! He closed his eyes, and
dazed—and dozed—

A deatening crash—the car heaving
and whirling around dizzily—something
hitting him on the head (great scott!
what a devilishly hard smash) He felt
himself hurled through the air and then
lapsed into merciful unconsciousness.

When he opened his eyes, he was
lying on a soft grassy bank with the
hideous, shapless, smoking wreck before
his eyes. He staggered to Kis feet—not
so badly knocked about after all.
Damned lucky! He could see the more
fortunate assisting the less fortunate and
everywhere blood and smoking debris.

Suddenly his brain reeled—what about
Marshall? He started to rush feverishly
around hunting for that kind old face.
Ha: a sheet covered form over there!
What if Marshall—but surely not! Yet
even before his shaking hands lifted the
snowy covering, scmething told him that
it was quite useless to hope.

_ Ah! blinding irony of fate incredible
in its malegnancy. Ah! cruel Dame
Fortune relentless in your savage blows!

He collapsed weakly to the ground
and sat trembling and crying like a
frightened little child.

“Damn!” he sobbed, ‘‘Oh Damn it all!”
BE; Cy P.

 
a on a

  
 
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
     
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
    
   
 
    
 
      
 
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
     
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
    
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  

ie grey Atlantic, is a
wn, [t is a strange
vith its long ee its
streets, and its frownin
winter the east winds beat
antic and white sea-fogs

e story a of eo It
t six on a January alternoon
Grahame was lying back
sly in an easy chair in his room
Street. It was that lazy time
ae when it is too early to
ight’s work and one can yield
minutes to the drowsy charm
t fire and pleasant thoughts.
to musing on his life at Dalid how happy it had been. He
ly identify himself with the
blundering school-boy of two
p, stuffed full of wild enthusd prejudices, over-shy and overy turns. The keenness, the
al—-hunger still remained, but
nature had broadened, most of
s had been rubbed off, and he
once been so self-conscious and
ful now began to discover that
a mysterious hold on the minds
rmen. This year he was to lead
ting Team, and only a day or
2 one of his professors, a man
in praise, had called him aside,
limented him on his work and
ed that he should go to Harvard or
ll when his course at Dalhousie
finished. His heart leaped as he
t what a few years might bring.
as in his Junior year now, each
had been happier than the one
why should it not go on?
was so immersed in his dreams that
i not hear the telephone ring, and
ly noticed his landlady as she
led into the room, ‘‘You’re wanted
‘the phone, Mr. Grahame.”’- He
red “QO, thanks, Mfs. Smith,” and
untered lazily to the phone.
Vhat’s that! Long distance speak~ Yes, this is Allan Graham.’’ And
from what afterwards scemed an
ity of time and space came the
is, ‘Dr. Macdonald speaking. Your
sr ig very ill. Come at once. I'm
farm now”’......and then silence.
had just time to catch the last
1, and a miserable journey began.
will never forget it, so tossed about
d tormented was he by hcpes and fears
- wheels ground out endlessly and
ically, ‘“Your father is very ill.
e at once,’’ but at last the train
ew up at the little country station, and
descended. He looked about the
nly lighted platform, but no one was
Ue tor him, and with a nod to the
on master he strode out into the
t. Up the hill he went, past the
aged birches, past the clump of
vlas firs, till he hit the farm-road
an could see the lights of the farm
glimmering in the hollow, His heart
drummed against his side, and he stopped for a moment before he went down
" the slope. There was no one at the gate,
and the house seemed strangely quiet.
His mother came to the door in answer
to his knock, her face working pitifully.
‘There was no need to ask any question
he had come too late.
_ It-was the evening of the funeral, three
days afterwards. Grahame had moved
about all this time in a kind of daze,
and now he was sitting in his room trying
to understand the situation. His mind
_ ‘was quieter here in the familiar little
mn where even the chairs and_ the
pictures seemed like old friends. Here
were his books, the tattered veterans
he had not taken to Dalhousie, and ‘his

 

A Complete
Musical Service

Everything that, Students
require in Music, including
smal instruments Of every
description. Sheet Music &
Music Books will be found

-PHINNEY’S Limited

 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 

9 e eet ee —

.
—

a

  
  

il

a i
Ae

ts

3

ot
ih

=]

 
 
 
   
 

AT EASTER ©

' * Flowers are appropriate but not
any more so than a lasting useful
|| gift selected at BIRKS.

She will think of you every time
arsit. — |

  

    
   
 
   

 
   

 

fishing rod retired for the winter; here
was the table where he had toiled at
Latin prose and dreamed of going to
College; at this window he had sat and

watched the wind snowing the appleblossoms on the walks in the long days
after his illness, six years before. He

could hardly think now that the life on
which he was looking back was his owa
life; he seemed to have growa years
older in three days, and to have put
boyhood off once and for all. But,
troubled as he was, he found difficulty
in understanding why he should be
troubled; so far, it was simply a vague,
sickening feeling of emptiness that had
bowed him down; there was no clear
image of his father in his mind, nor had
he ever thought of what his father’s
death would mean to the career he had
mapped out for himself,

A knock came to the door and his mother entered softly. She went up to him
and sat down beside him on the old couch,
taking hishandin hers. ‘Its about yourself I want to speak tonight, Allan,” she
said gently, “try not to be hurt at what
I am going to say. You'll promise,
now?” “I'll try, mother,” he said slowly, puzzling his brains to find out what
was coming. Two cr three tim:s she
tried to speak but the words would not
come. Grahame looked pitifully at the
brave little figure, far more bent and
worn than a woman of forty-five ought
to be, and someching made him stroke
the hand that was holding his. Was
there anything that he could refuse her?

“Allan,” she said at last, ‘‘your father
was proud of youtoo. [am going to ask
you to do something; she paused;

“Allan, we are very poor, your father had
to work hard to keep the farm going, and
you are the eldest of the four. Your
great-grandfather was on this farm, and
your grandfather, and | have lived here
for twenty-five years, but—we'll have to

ive it up unless’’—she was silent. ‘‘Uness what, mother?”’

“Can Lask it, Allan? Unless you will
take your father’s place.”

She felt his hand tighten within hers.
“T knew it would hurt you, and | won't
say any more tonight. But you'll think
about us all and tel! me in the morning.
Good-night.”” Allan could hardly utter
an answering ‘“‘good-night,” he barely
returned her kiss, so stunned was he by
the news. He had never thought of
this; itseemed absurd to regard it as the
only solution to the problem, Another
eighteen months and he would have his
degree—-could they not wait? No, they
could not wait; his summers had been
spent on the farm and he knew the grim
struggle which his father had waged to
keep himself clear of debt and make both
ends meet. That was the one alternative, to step into his fathers place; the
other was to leave things as they were
and go back to the University—he had
his scholarship and did not add to their
burden. But the trouble was that things
wouldn’t stay as they were, the farm
would have to be given up, his sisters
taken from school, and his mother—but
that was impossible, If only they had
some rich relative who would ke:p them
going for a year! There was no escape.
he must take over the farm, toil early and
late, give up his old friendships, put his
books aside—he had no pleasant illusions
on that score, the farm would have to fill
his whole life if he were to make anything
of it.

Morning came at last after a weary,
sleepless night. Little was said at the
breakfast table, but when the meal was
over he drew his mother aside. ‘‘I have
made up my mind,” he said, “TI will stay
with you.”

“T knew you would,” she said softly,
“and now you must go up to Halifax to

et your books together and see your
tiends. Stay for a day or two, it will do
you good.” “I don’t want to stay there
any longer than I can help—now.”

CASINO

NEXT WEEK
MON., TUES., WED.

“THE SPLENDID ROAD”

ANNA Q. NILSSON
ROBERT FRAZER

and
LIONEL BARRYMORE

DUET ; COMEDY
THUR., FRI., SAT.

HARRY GAREY

in
THE MAN FROM RED GULCH

with
HARRIETT HAMMOND
SERIAL -COMEDY

     
  
  

 

 
 
 
   
  
  

 

 

    

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

+ NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE,

 
 

 

  
     
    
      
     
 
    
 
   
    
    

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

_ A few days later :
familiar room on South Street, sitting
again in his old chair by the cheery fire
But the room had changed its appezarance; table and chairs alike were tree of
books, his hockey-stick no longer stood
in its corner, and the mantleshelf lacked
its usual adornment of photographs, pipes
and tobacco tins; instead the floor was
littered with paper and two big boxes
stood grimly near the door. The cosy
little room looked strangely desolate and
bare; still it was good to be back in the
wind-swept city by the sea and he resolved to go out.

It was a little after nine o’clock, a keen
wind blew from the north and the great
spaces of the sky were strewa with stars.
As he stepped out into the darkness he
could hear the cheery voices and the hum
of skates from the rink, and from where
he stood he could see the lighted windows
of the gymnasium and a faint wail of
violins and the beat of a syncopated
piano and a hiccoughing saxophone came
to him on the frosty air. He smiled—it
was the first dance after Christmas, once
he had meant to go to it—the smile faded
fromthis lips, he grit his teeth and strode
on » « » the merry company meant
nothing to him now. The ice crackled
under his feet as he walked and the air,
strong and keen, was heady as new wine.
He found himself keeping step to the tune
he was humming, the tune of his favorite
College song, ‘Yes, we come from Dalhousie.” Never again would he join in
the chorus yet he felt it was good to have
had the chance to learn it. He turned
down Tower Road and kept right on and
on till he reached the Point.

A solitary beacon gleamed far out at
sea, and by the dim light of the stars he
could see that the bay was white with
foam. At Dalhousie one grows accustomed to the sea, it is simply a background to the bustling, self-satisfied
studnt life—it is rather nice to sing ol
the “College by the Sea.” But now,
troubled as he was, it was the sea, these
great, desolate wastes of waters that
became the only reality. When Halifax
was-only an Indian settlement, a cluster
of wigwams, these breakers had been
foaming’ and roaring on the rocks, and
they would sound on and on when Halifax
would be only a heap of stones. It seemed
so cold,so lonely, so careless of human
things that Grahame shuddered and
turned away.

A few lights were still burning in the
town and tha mass of buildings rose black
against the starlit sky. He had often
seen it thus in happier days, mysterious
and beautiful like an enchanted city,
but it was no longer his city, he could
take no pleasure in it. Slowly and heavily he walked back. The streets were
deserted now, the tired skaters had gone
home, only the languishing strains of a
waltz cam? across the campus and broke
the silence mournfully as he wearily
slimed the steps to his room. It was all
dark, the fire had gone out and the wind
whistled drearily round the gables—his

old life was ended.
*

ok oe

Two years passed, years of hard, relentless toil. He settled down to his

he was back in the}estate. Sometimes in the

first few
months, when he had an hour or two to

-| spare he would take down his books and

try to read, but his mind had been worn
out on other things, and only the lightest
of light novels could hold his attention.
Sometimes he climed to the little clump
of firs which crowned the neighbouring
hill. All around lay his own country,
mean and rather bleak, traversed by
fences and hedges, with only an occasional
orchard or a mass of bare farm buildings
to break the monotonous expanse of
land. But his gaze would often travel
far eastwards to a spot where he knew

silver streak of sea bit into the land.

ot here in these bleak, wind-bared
fields, but away in a quiet green campus
was his dream and his desire. Yet
even this had ceased, and he became
wholly immersed in the work of the
farm.

He had got out of touch with most of
his old friends, their interests were no
longer his interests, and though he knew
it was wrong he was more afraid of their
pity than of their neglect. But one day,
early in October, as he was going along
the streets of Kentville where he had
been attending a Farmers’ Conference,
he walked into the arms of Thomkins,
a man whom he had not known very
well at College, although they both
belonged to the sam=2 year.

“Hallo, Grahame,” he cried, “whatever are you doing here? What hands!
What a back: Dear me, you're just
like a farmer.”

“So Lam," he answered quietly. “‘Are
you going back to Dalhousie?”’
“Ves well, Pinehill now,’’ Thomkins

replied, “Good thing too; after four
years you begin to get quite sick of the
old place. But where did you vanish
to?”

“T am farming now.”

“Farming! I thought you were joking. Do you mean to say you have
buried yourself alive in the country?
I thought you had gone to McGill or
Harvard. Every one expected you to
go, you know. You might have waited
to take your degres, at any rate.”

“Well, something happened which
made me change my mind.”

“Oh, yes! I remember,” said Thomkins turning red and looking awkward.
‘Your father died. Hard luck, old man.
I wish you could come back; you may
do it yet, you know.”

It was this sort of thing that Grahame
had dreaded, and after he had listened
to a little more of the same kind of talk
he murmured something about an appointment and hurried off. He felt
angry, and again angry at himself for
being angry, for Thomkins certainly
meant well. Yet everything he had said
rankled and Grahame found that his
laboriously acquired contentment was
fast slipping away. In the train he
heard hardly a word of the talk addressed
to him by a neighbouring farmer. When
he arrived at the station his brain was
whirling with mad desires and invincible
regrets; so much so that he was afraid
to go straight home, but he climbed up
instead to the little clump of firs.

It was not very late, a dim rosy light

n-w life more easily than he had thought | still lingered in the west, but a_ violet

he would, more easily even than

wished, for his contentment only showed) where his dream-city lay.

he} haze rested upon the eastern sky-line

Again the

how far he was removed from his former |impotent anger flamed up within him.

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers 2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desians,
also Wepptnc Bouquets. We

also do Taste Decoratinc. We

are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR
STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

Don’t Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD'S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procur_able on hand. Our Harr Curtie is sure
satisfy. Laprus’ Harr Cutrina in all
styles; also Curmtinc, SHAMPooING and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A, SHIELDS

PhoneS 4780 41’ Sackville St.

 

 

Why should a man like Thomkins, with
no special virtue beyond ‘meaning
well’’ get so easily, almost against his
will, what had been denied to far better
men. ‘‘The race was not to the swilt
nor the battle to the strong.”’

A cold wind swept down from the
north, making him shivers The fire
‘would be burning in the little sittingroom, and the cloth would be spread for
him. His mother must be growing
anxious too, so he forced down his rebellious thoughts and hurried to the
farm. She was waiting for him.

“Vou are late to-night, Allan,’ she
said, “and, dear me, you are cold. Come,
I have your supper ready. We'll have
it together. The others are out but |
waited for you.”

 

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

*“KELLYS”

FOR

CANES
“The Specialty Shop’

116 118 GRANVILLE STREET

 

3 Page Three 
 

Majestic Notes

Commencing today the Majestic presents ‘‘Winds of Chance’ directed by
Frank Lloyd. It is a Rex Beach story,
of thrilling adventure, of the Klondike
and of gold. The cast is an all star one
including Anna Q. Nilsson, Viola Dana, }
Ben Lyon, Hobart Bosworth and others.

Monday evening Ifan Williams presents a combined program by the Choral
Union and the Conservatory of Music
Orchestra. The program is a varied one
and on it may be found the foremost in
music ranks ia Halifax.

Tuesday and Wednesday Norma Shearer appears in “His Secretary’? Lew
Cody is her leading man. It is a story
of a plain looking little stenographer
who learns how to wear beautiful clothes
and win her employer. We recommend
this as a really delightful picture.

 

They sat down, but Grahame gave
only the shortest of answers to his
mother’s questions and she soon saw that
there was something amiss. She asked
no more questions, but talked cheerfully
about indifferent matters till the meal
was finished, then she drew her chair
near to his and stroked his great rough
hands. ‘‘Allan,”’ she said, “I want to
talk to you to-night.’”’ He pressed her
hand, and she went on: ‘We are all
very happy here, Allan, and two years
ago I thought I would never be happy
again. I thought that our home might be
broken upand we would be scattered, but
we are all together, all in good health.
And when I think of you | feel—O Allan:
[ feel so proud of you! I know how hard
it was for you to take up your father’s
work, fa: | know what you had set your
heart on, and often when you didn’t
know it [ was thinking of you and wondering if there was no other way. And
you never compiained, never once; you
have given it all so freely, so ungrudgingly; it is that which makes the gilt so
very beautiful. I thank God for you
every day, Allan, for giving me such a
splendid son. It isa yreat thing to be a
scholar, but it is better to be a maa.”

Allan looked at her, brave and bright,
yet worn beyond her years, so: fragile
that he almost grew afraid as he looked
at her. He wondered what he would
do if he were to lose her, and if even a
thwarted career counted for much beside
her. He stroked her hand; she gazed
at her son proudly, leant over and kissed
him.

Then, as is the fashion with Scotch
people, their talk dropped back to everyday things. But he never forget these
words, and when he went up to his room
that night h- sat tor 1 long time: pondering. Henceforth there was to be no selfpity, no whinings at Fortune. ‘“‘It is
a great thing to be a scholar,” he murmured, ‘‘but it is better to be a mad.”

M. A. 5B.

Ve Oxfords

FOR MEN

Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to keep up appearances.
These very men are the fellows you see
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords
and Spats.
OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Wallace Bros.
Se BARRINGTON ST. po

 

 
    
   
 

 

 

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four PreEssincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices. $3

Light Lunches and Ice Cream
ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

ugg JEWELRY FAG
H. C. HENDERSON

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville

 

 

 
—_————

 

       
         
     
   


Clothes Seen at the Colleges
SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 

 

Girls City League
Dal 46-10

Marion Campbell Stars.

 

Dal. Girls’ Second Team are pee
certain of their section of the League for
by beating the Y. W. C. A. “A” team
last week they remain the only undefeated team in their section. The first
period opened fast with Dal. slow in
waking up and letting the “YW” score
several times before they got their initial
register. The play in this period was
very close and Lal emerged with a scant
oint lead. In the second Marion

ampbell went on a scoring bee netting
the ball for a total of 28 points. The
Dal. forwards controlled the bal! for
practically the entire period, giving th“YW" guards plenty of work, and the
Dal. guards a much needed rest. The
shooting of the Dal. forwards in the first
period was very much off and it was only
on the appearance of Marion Campbell
that they showed any signs of life. The
uards were rather inclined to play too
ar in front of the opposing forwards
when they had the ball with the result
that the ““YW”’ got several baskets that
they shouldn’t have if they had been
closely guarded. Line up:—Forwards,
Campbell 32, Thompson 6, Atherton 8;
Centers McCurdy, Phinney; Guards,
McPhail, Freeman; Sub., Thompson,
Foote.

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last wordin modern
science for this purpose,

Our VALETERIA SERVICE

shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes,

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

 

 

When in lown
GET THE

       
       
    
    
        

Three Essentials

1. Pure Food and Candy
2. Prompt and Courteous
Service
3. Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. , Geo. Alexander

WINNERS From The

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
ean supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
| HALIFAX 33 Ni; S,

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE
Optometrist & Optician Y, M,C. Ay Bldg.

~
SS a a ee ee ee ee

 

 

interfaculty
Basketball

Commerce 18—Engineers 16.

Commerce upset the dope by defeating
the Engineers in a fast and hard
fought game, which required six minutes
overtime to divide. The first half endec
12-6 in favor of the Millionaires, but the
Engineers easily evened up matters in the
second. Line ups: Commerce, McDuff, Miller 2, Smith 6, Harris 2, McDonald 8, McCcll.

Engineers—Brown 4, McKeagan 12,
Currie, Allan, Lowe, Roper, Beaton.

Arts 23—Medicine 4.

Arts scuttled the Medical ship in the
second game 28-4, Keeping the Doctors
on the run continually from the first
whistle they had the game well in hand
throughout, and at no time were they
in danger. This game was featured by
the excellent shooting of the Arts forwards. Medicine were forced to play
one man short for the best part of the
game. The first period ended 16-0
for Arts. Line up: Arts, —Keating 11,
Hood 6, Jardine 6, Ross, Grant.

Medicine—Phillips 2, Richardson 2.
Doull, McDonald, Bayne, Baird.

Law 11—Dentistry 9

Law defeated Dentistry 11-9 in the
third game at the Studley Gym. This
was the closest and best game of the
afternoon, the result being in doubt right
up to the last minute. The work of the
guards on both sides was particularly
good, Line up:—Law—Richardson 2,
Doyle 4, McInnes, Cuthit, Forwards;
Coughlan 1, Mitchell 4, Guards.

Dentistry—Godsoe 2, Dobson 3, Sullivan 4, Oldfield, Tupper, Duaberry.

 

Interfaculty
Hockey

Arts 2—Eng. 1.

Arts won its second victory of the
league by dewning Engineers 2-1. Having the balance of territory throughout
the game they were cnly prevented from
running in a larger score by the excellent
work of Beaton in the nets. He was by
far the most outstanding player on the
ice and stopped many hard shots labelled
as sceres. The first period ended in the
Engineers favor 1-0 Robinson having
scored on a long shct towards the end of
that period. In the second however
Arts evened up matters before the game
had progressed very far, Redmond
scoring. The period ended 1-1. About
the middle of the third Murray scored
with a hard shot that had Beaton beaten
all the-way. The game was effectively
handled by Jim Macdonald who was
forced t> hand out many penalties to
both -sides.

Line up:—Engineers—Beaton, Goal;
Horne, Falconer, Defence; Robinson,
Currie, Lee.

Arts:—MacKenzie, Goal;
Murray, Defence; Redmond,
McLean, Subs, Foley, Dockrill.

Wickwire,
Ross,

 

You know the rest of this
alphabet, but won't you
Music Dealer's Text Book.

ALPHA BETA

learn the music from a
It starts like this:
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, etc.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS =

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dalhousie Loses
to Wanderers

 

In a very listless game the Dal-Kings
team once more bowed to the Red shirts
by 5-1, in what was probably their
last appearance for the season. The
play was about even in the first period
with Ernst and Wilson showing up well.
In the second the Royal Tigers went to
bits for a few minutes and the Wanderers
ran in four counters. Play in this period
was fast and the checking very heavy.
Fabie got a stick in the eye partially
closing it. In the first ‘‘Nutty” get hit
on the nose and play was suspended for
a few minutes while he was doctored up.
In the third Fabie got away on one of his
rushes, shot and then banged in the rebound. It was much the same as the
first Dalhousie having the edge of the
play but lacking as they did throughout
the entire game the necessary scoring
punch, Creighton was back in old time
form and was the most consistent man
on the team.

The game ended as it began, listlessly.
The cutstanding feature of the game was
the number of Dal rooters. In the rush
section there were vxactly three supporters, who were aided by some second
team men in making a few feeble hoots

and some very critizing remarks. Line
up:—Lewis, Wilson, Ernst, Bates,

Creighton, Colman, Waddington, Andrews.

oo

Intermediate
Basketball

Dal 11—Y. M. C. A. 33.

Dal. Intermediates lost their first
game of the league to the Y. M. C. A.
last Friday night. The ‘“Y” were entirely too heavy for them and checked
them into submission. This practically
gives the ‘‘Y"’ the league unless they are
defeated in one of their remaining games
which isn’t at all likely. However Dal
has still a chance and should they manage
to pull out a win against Pine Hill they
will probably play off with ‘‘Y”’ for the
title. Line up:—McDonald 2, Hewat 5,
Clark, Sperry 4, Jones, Miller.

 

ATTENTION, “WAKE UP.”

Lend me just a little space here,
Just a little space, to-day,

For, although my verse is base, there
Are some things I wish to say.

First, to help a willing worker,
Upon whose shoulders falls enough,
I would never be a shirker,
But do my best to write some “Stuff.”
I know I need not e’er aspire
Fora “Literary D”,
But some tips | may acquire,

Which, in writing, may help me.
Therefore, since I’ve read your column,
This is what I’m going to swear—

I swear on oath, and swear it solemn,
That I’ll do my little share!

DREAMER—'29.

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

 

 

 

ALSO

School and Colleg. . ext Books

Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

Cable Address: ‘‘McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Souicrrors &c.

HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C. Macd 5
Stuart Jenks, K. C. P. B. A. Chicas’ a
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. E. MacKay

 

Dal Heads
Basketball

DEFEATS ‘“Y”’, 15-14 IN FAST

GAME.

Dal. just managed to nose out a win in
the Senior Basket Ball fixture last Saturday night and by so doing are now tie
with the ‘“Y" for premier honcurs, The
game was very fast Lut somewhat rough,
being featured by very close guarding
which resulted in the score being kept
down on both sides. The ‘‘Y”’ started cff
well and ran in a couple of baskets before
Dal. woke up, and then the fun started.
With a rapidity that was almost impossible to follow the ball shot from one to
ancther, up and down the floor. Langstroth managed to collect two baskets and
got two more pvints on penalties. McLeod also managed to get two and had a
third, but Ritchie McCoy blew his
whistle by mistake. In this period Dal.
had the misfortune to miss many of the
penalty shots awarded them, for if they
had collected more they would have
had a nice margin of safety. As it
was the period ended 10-8. In the secone Dal. watched the ‘‘Y”’ like long lost
brothers with the result that it was several minutes before anyone scored. Dal.
ran in five more points in this frame but
once again missed several penalties. McLennan who went off in the middle of the
first period came on again replacing
Clark who had taken his place for that
time. Then with but two minutes to go
and Dal. three points in the lead the ““Y”’
got a penalty which they easily made sale,
And so ended one of the most heated
games of Basket Ball seen for a long time.
he gallery was in an ,uproar when the
final whistle blew making Dal. the winner
by one point. Quite a large crowd witnessed the game, for it was at a very convenient hour giving the spectators plenty
of time to make the second show alter it
was over. For Dal. the guards were probably the best particularly Doyle who
played a very excellent game. Ab
Smith also was very good, using his
weight to advantage on every legitimate
opportunity. Of the forwards Langstroth was the pick followed closely by
McLeod. McLennan who usually shows
up well was unable to stand the heavy
checking. Clark was alsa fairly good,
but a little too easily thrown around,
Dal. certainly deserved the win for the
whole five of them worked like trojans
from beginning to end, their only weak
point being their inability to find the basket on penalty shots. At times their
passing was a bit erratic the ““Y” having
the edge on this branch of the game.
Dal. won the game on her ability to make
the mest of her chances, which is an
unusual thing for a Dalhousie team.
Line up: Center, Langstroth, 7; McLeod, 6; McLennan, 2; Clark. Guards,
Smith, Doyle, Moore.

Referees, McCoy and Schwartz.

eS

M. B. C. 35—Engineers 18.

Maritime Business College defeated
the Engineers in a fast exhibition game
at the Dal. Gym last week. Leading
all the way the M. B. C. with several!
first and second City League men on their
team had not much difficulty in winning.
The first period was fairly even, the
i ngineers keeping the M. B. C. down toa
38 point lead. However they made up
for it in the third walking right away
fromthem. Engineers:—Beaton, Currie
8, McKeagan 6, Horne 4, Roper, Lowe,

  
  
    
 
      
   
 

 

 

Suit or
Over Coat

to your measure.
in Canada.

Best value

See the many advantages
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your
clothes,

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

$24.00

February 18th, 1926

 

le SPORT NEWS So

Dal-Acadia

Da! 43—Acadia 35.

Last week Dal journeyed up to Wolfville and played the Acadia team.
They beat them but only after a hard
fight. Starting off well they ran in a
ccuple of baskets before Acadia woke up.
When they did they made it 10-5. Dal
soon climbed ahead mainly through the
excellent work of Langstroth, and the
period ended 23-18. McLeod was removed fer too many fouls and Smith
went up in his place Moore coming on the
defence. In a few minutes however
Doyle was removed and Smith dropped
back. Clark coming on. In the second
period the play speeded up, but Dal
outstripped Acadia and emerged ahead
once more. Line up:—Langstroth 16,
McLennan 16, McLeod 1, Clark 6,
Smith 3, Moore 1, Doyle.

a

intermediate
Hockey

Dal. went under befor ethe Wanderers
to the tune of 4-2 in the second game
Tuesday week. As far as hockey was
concerned the game was far better than
the Senior one, both as regards passing
and individual efforts. Taylor collected
the first one for Dal. in a mix-up. This
was scored in the first period. Dal.
didn’t score again until the last when
Andrew's batted in the puck for Dal’s
final score. For Dal. Taylor Andrews
and McCunn were the pick with Godsoe
running them close for the honors. Dal.
is now at the foot of Intermediate League,

Dalhousie 29
Normal College 14

Dalhousie Girls City League team
triumphed over the Truro Normal
Cellege at Truro in an exhibition game
last week. The game was quite interesting and kept the large crowd in an uproar. Alice Atherton played about the
best for Dal, but was given a close run
for honours by Marjorie Thompson,
Miss Phinney also played rather well and
the two guards showed up to advantage.
Line up: Atherton, Thompson, MeCurdy, Phinney, McPhail, Freeman;
Subs, MacKay, Feote, M. Thompscn.

All-round Excellency

* Astoria’
SHOES

For Men

Stand out as the Leaders in
Canadian Footwear.

W. i ris

SHOE DEALER

Barrington St., Spring Garden Road
and Dartmouth

For Distinctive Style and

 

Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents For
Society Brand Clothes
Correct Dress For Students

437 Barrington Street

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance. *

SpeciAL Bospspinc PARLORS
For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

 
