  

a

 

How many Dalhousians know that

‘ Halifax once boasted a University bearing

its name—one which began a most prom3 career with lofty ideals and high
ards and which came to an untimely
end and is now almost forgotten?
An Act of Partiament sanctioned by
the Lieut.-Governor on April 4th, 1876,
established the University, which was not

 

 
   

that the dominating feature in theatrical
productions is the play itself. No amount
of scenery or the absence of it can ever
take the place of the play. The play’s
the thing. Of course it is a delight to see
excellent stage management, clever lighting, adequate scenery, and a well-trained
group of actors. The Glee Club performances are being particularly well acted,
but if I had to choose, I had always
rather see an exceilent play badly presented, than any amount of triviality
beautifully done. Even the worst acting

  

—— — _s 7 ——— a a

Hs ve a

newt

    

a

   
 

ii

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, DECEMBER 8rd, 1925

 

Can You Beat

(A true story)

It?

 

‘Hello!’ said a timid feminine voice

‘‘Hello-a!” answered a loud masculine
voice in return,

“May 1 speak to S---ty G---t?”

“Well, no, he hasn't come in to lunch
yet,’’ said the other, “but can’t 1 take
the message?”

“No, 1 think not, L’ll call again!’

DEATH OF DEAN
WELDON.

Dr. Richard Chapman Weldon,
Dean of the Faculty of Law and
George Munro Professor of
Constitutional and International Law at Dathousie University
from the organization of the
Faculty: in 1883 till his retirement from teaching in 1914,
died at his home in Dartmouth

MNT

    
   

  
     

NA

  

Five Cents The Copy

“The Belle Crowe
Fellowship Fund”

_ Dalhousie is again remembered by an
interested friend and former student, Miss
Belie C, Crowe, a native of Truro, N. S.
has, in her will, stated that the University is to receive, on the death of her sister,
Miss Ada Crowe, the sum of $10,000 to
constitute a perpetual prize fund to be

 

to be a ching University but an exam-|/and the most ludicrous scenery cannot ‘Whois aneaiine. shall } ares a gue ager ees called *‘The Belle Crowe Fellowship
hte : aking, shall 1 get. S---ty to Noy. 26th. hes
ining and degree-conferring body of an|conceal the lines of a great dramatist. | 1 you?” Gch’ Fre acta Ske on Thursday, Noy. 26 Fund?” Che income at this fand chall be

absolutely non-sectarian nature. Thus it

sdeled on the University of Lon
This year we are seeing plays, not shows.

VOX,

 

devoted to a fellowship in Inorganic

Chemistry, which, when it becomes avail
was moa : ‘ “No, 1 just wanted to ask him if he : see au
don, which, a wee eBOME, 18 TO k could tell me where to locate some mem- able, will put it in the power of the Uniteaching body, but whose degrees ran here of thé Club—but 1’ll ask him versity to give over $1,000 every other

among those of the famous Universities
of the world. Students who had completed courses at any of the affiliated
colleges (including King’s, Acadia, Dalhousie, St. F. X., Mt. Allison, St. Mary's
ond the Halifax Medical School) besides
those who had studied privately, could
abtain a degree of a high standard in
the faculties of Arts, Science, Law and
Medicine. The governing body consisted
of a visitor, (who was Lieut.-Governor of
the Province) a chancellor and vicechancellor and twenty-four Fellows.
The Registrar afterwards became professor of Modern Languages at Harvard.
The first examination (matriculation only)
were held in 1877. Examinations were
also held and degrees conferred in 1878,
1879, and 1880. After this the University became defunct owing chiefly to the
fact that the Legislature failed to continue its annual grant of $2,000 for its
maintenance, which had been provided for
in the Act of Incorporation, Another
reason was that comparatively few students undertook the examinations.
Now, since all the prominent men intimately associated with it are dead, it
is hardly likely that the University of
Haliifax will ever be revived—although
the act creating it has never been repealed

Bar ©.

— r

 

| “Dalhousie Glee and

‘ Dramatic Society”

 

‘a The Glee Club meeting on Wednesday

last was a momentous occasion. Lee

Chisholm and Bernard Shaw combined

- to make the show an unprecedent success,

and the Dalhousie Male Choir made its
first public appearance. Directed by Lee
Chisholm, and accompanied by Roy Wiles,
these twenty lusty voices created an enjoyable sensation. As the opening num“wei of the program, the choir sang, “All
Hail to Thee, Dalhousie,’ and ‘Follow
up,”—the Harrow School song. Gordon
Graham's solo combined the sweetness of
an excellent voice with the passion which
comes only from experience. The feature
number was the short one-act play by
Bernard Shaw, “‘Annajanska, the Bolshevik Empress." The play,delightful in

A New Society at
Dalhousie

 

A soceity known as the Maccabean
Society has been organized by the Jewish
students attending Dalhousie. There is
an enrollment of over thirty members,
including the following officers:
President—Charles Gavsie, '27,
Vice-President—Isabella Pink, ‘27.
Sect-Treasurer—Phil Magonet, '27.
This new society is wide awake and
flourishing, adding to the serious side of
their program entertainments from time
to time in the-Robie Street Auditorium.
Several meetings of this society has been
held this term and the season promises
to be a decided snccess.

Dalhousie Debaters

 

Trial debates were held in the Munroe
Room Tues., and Wed. Nov. 17th & 18th
and the following were chosen by the
Intercollegiate Committee to represent
Dalhousie in the forensic battles of the

year.
Against the Imperial Team:—
Walter E. Darby, Herbert At Davison,
W. Jarvis McCurdy. .
Against McGill:—
Donald McInnes, Roderick H. MacLeod, A. Stirling Brown.
Intercollegiate :—
J. Gerald Godsoe, Walter B. Ross,
Frederick J. Forbes.

The Debaters.

W. E.:-Darby is a graduate of Arts now
in Law, class’27. He is President of the
Debating Society and one of the older
debaters, having led the Intercollegiate
team for the last two years. Comes from
Prince Edward Island.

H. is a Senior in Arts.
Middleton claims to be the birthplace of
this fluent speaker and member of last
years Intercollegiate team. ‘Herbie’ is

also an artist of some repute.

A. Davison

W. Jarvis McCurdy is also a Senior
in Arts. Hails from Quebec. ‘‘Jarvis’’

 

again some time.” - Masculine curiosity
overcame masculine dignity. He had not
eaught the last sentence and his suspicion was grcwing rapidly. The chance
must not pass. He could not resist; so
he blurted out “Is that you M-r--1?”

Dumbfounded ‘and amazed the feminine voice answers after a long pause,
“Why, yes but how is the world did you
know me? Who is speaking?”

“Why this is G--d-n. I'll tell S---ty
to call you'up when he comes in.”

Not without growing alarm could she
manage to answer ‘‘N-no, never mind
thanks!”

Again the magna vex, ‘Lock here, |
say, between you and me and the gatepost, [I want to-ask you something.
Confidentially of course, you won't
mention it to a soul, will you? Am
I-e-e going to be asked to the-e Shirreff
Hall dance?”

Still more dumbfounded and still more
amazed, the puzzled one again became
‘weak, almost became ill, but managed
to gasp, “Why, l’m sure 1 can’t say,
1 don’t know anything about it.”’

“Oh! don’t you? Well, of course 1
can trust you not to mention that |
asked, will you?”

“‘N-no!”’

‘Sure you don’t want S---ty to give
you a call?”

“) think not.”

“Well, goad by!”

“Good by.”

The receivers went up with a click,
realization came down’ with a_ bang.
What had she said? “The Club?”’
But M-r--1 has no connection with that.
Good Lord—was it possible? lt was
M-r--1 all right—but not the right one.
Horrors!

 

M-r--l.

The Alumni Association

 

The undergraduate shows something
about a great many college activities,
but he—or she— has probably heard
very little of the Alumni Association. This
body, as we learn from page 141 of the
Current Calendar, was organized in 1871
and incorporated in 1876. It is not an
unreasonable request on the part of the

\

orial to those of our number who served
during the Great War.

The Association is anxious to enlist
the support of each class as it leaves the
University. You are as much a Dalhousian after you graduate as before; in
fact, even more a Dalhousian; for the
effectual work of a university is performed
by its graduates. The share that each of}
us has in Dalhousie is proportionate to the
good will that we feel and the effort that
we make for the university.

As a reasonable effective means of
showing good will and expending energy
in the common cause, the Alumni Association is well worth looking into.

Law School Notes

The adjustment of courses for the
second term of the Law School year has
been settled. Mr. T. W. Murphy, K. C.,
has signified his intention to continue to
give the course in Mortgages and Practical Statutes. The course in Insurance
for the second term will be given by
Colonel W. E. Thompson and Mr. F. H.
M. Jones. Mr. H. E. Read, recently
appointed full-time instructor, in Law,
will be giving the course in Equity I for
the second term. This course is given
to the second and third year students
together. Mr. V. C. MacDonald will be
giving the course in Contracts II and Mr.
I. C. Doty the lectures on Criminal Procedure.

 

It is expected that there will be a course
of special lectures on legal topics that do
not come within the precise boundaries
of any of the subjects of the curriculum,
but which are of interest and importance
to Law students. The names of the
lecturers of this special course will be
announced in a subsequent issue of the
Gazette.

Dalhousians at Harvard

 

Two former members of the Dalhousie

year to a student upon his graduation from
the University. This very handsome gift
has been greatly appreciated by all associated with the University, fornot only has
the Chemistry Department long felt the
need of such “prize’’ encouragement as
this, but it is gratifying to know of the
active interest and goodwill shown by
an old student and friend of Dalhousie.

Miss Crowe received her early education at Pictou Academy and after her
course at Dalhousie attended the Pratt
Institute, New York, later becoming a
dietition at the Michigan Agriculture College at Lansing, Michigan. In 1900 she
went to the University of Wisconsin as
Matron of Chadbourne Hall. She resigned this position and became a business
woman and built and managed apartment
buildings in the city of Madison. She
took an active interest in hospital work
and other worthy causes and was particularly active in work for the soldiers during the war. She died in Madison a short
time ago.

VOX CLAMANTIS

How cans't thou come, dear prof, to me
To ask about thy ‘‘ology’’?

Thy method’s slow, thy subject's deep,
Thy charming yawn lulls us to sleep;
How then from us cans’t thou ask aught
Of all thy professorial rot?

Distracted in a lost-chord chime,

You'll hear us groan at paper-time,

Too deep, too deep, too deep for me

ls thy confounded “‘ology”’.

ll
Learn from the wise and then perpend,
Thy weary methods must thou mend!
Awake, arise and look alive!
New fangled methods do contrive,
Whereby thou'lt place before our eyes,
Thy ‘“‘clogy”’ as clear as skies.
Rejoicing then no longer bored,
You'll hear us sing in one accord:
Great stuff, great stuff, great stuff for me,
ls thy deep-rooted “‘ology”’.

B. K..G.

 

IMPORTANT

4 r} a ° J ¢ . O aATD Les . . ors Tsai >

oe ce Cl se oe = ii is President of the Arts & Science So-| undergraduate that he should have some | Law School are taking . post ‘graduate

ous acting of the at f Mis ss ciety and a football player. He is a information about the nature and activ-| courses at Harvard. J. A. Dunlop, B. A, CHAN GES
« js is a , ; o,¢ 4. i s ° . 4 = 1. ses os sie +

unfeigned imperiousness of Miss Harrie pleasing speaker and undoubtedly will | ities of the Association. B. C. L. (Oxon.), Rhodes Scholar Ee

Roberts. Her skilful overthrow of the . Nova Scotia, is taking the post graduate .

two guards, (Smith and Oldfield), was
delightfully Bolshevistic. Ewan Clark
was good as General Strammfest, nominal
leader of the Revolution, but at heart the
devoted adherent of the royal family, and
the part of Lieut. Schneidekind, the impudent young officer, was admirably
taken by his brother Bill. Much credit is
due to Miss Muriel Stevens, (B.A., Acadia)
who directed its production. The Wickwire brothers, Chalmers and John, then
entertained us with a delightful ballad,
“Hay, Hay, Farmer Gray.” After this
item came the Octet which received welldeserved and hearty applause. As the
final number of this ‘really “Glee and
Dramatic”’ program, the Choir rendered
“The March of the Men of Harlech” in
excellent harmony. This new organization should have every encouragement, for
with more training and practice, it will
certainly prove a distinct asset to our
College. Then the curtain parted and the
president himself stepped forward an-nouncing the end of the first part of the

rogram and the beginning of the dance.
First we had a Paul Jones, then a cut-in
or two and the evening was over. The
meeting of November 25th. will be the last
before the Christmas holidays. The improvement in the kind and quality of programs has been very marked this year,
and we are anticipating still better and
bigger things in the New Year.

H. A. D. and Vox.

  
 

litor’ | Now:—As has been mentioned
ve, ae pie of this year are an
- over those of last. The

and

acquit himself nobly,

Donald McInnes, the leader of the
team against McGill, is a native of Halifax. He is one of our most experienced
debaters and is a former President of the
Debating club. ‘‘Don”’ is a well-known
football player and now holds the position

of President of the D, A. A. C.

Roderick H. MacLeod, Arts’ 26 hails
from New Glasgow. This is his fitst time
ona debating team but hegave great promise inthe Trials. “Rod” is the Treasurer
of the Debating club and has always
taken a keen interest in University affairs.

A. Stirling Brown, Arts '26 is another
“Tslander.”’ He has a good voice and a
delightful delivery. One of great promise
as a debater he will make his maiden
speech against McGill.

J. Gerald Godsoe, the leader of the
Intercollegiate Team also hails from
Halifax. He graduates in Arts this spring.
Secretary of Students Council and President of the Newman Club are among the
many offices he has held while at Dalhousie. ‘Gerald’ makes his’ first appearance as a debater at Dalhousie this
year.

Walter B.-Ross, the second member
of the trio is a Truro boy and a freshman
at Dalhousie. He has the makings of a
good debater. Had a very creditable
High School record.

Frederick J. Forbes Arts '26 comes from
Sussex, N. B. He made a very creditable

——K— LE

The main purpose of any Alumni Association is to furnish a central organization which shall hold the Alumni together after they have left the College.
The theory is that the individual Dalhousian is not a grain of sand but a member of the Dalhousie group, and that he
should keep in touch with other Dalhousians and with his Alma Meter for the
rest of his life. In some American Colleges the function of the Alumni has become exceedingly important; and in an
institution such as Dalhousie which
eeives aid from neither church nor state
there is much room for their activities.

Recently the Dalhousie Alumni Association compiled and published a Directory of all persons who have ever attended Dalhousie. The Association takes care
of the files of names of Dalhousians, which
now, we understand, are more than five
thousand in fiumber. The Association
also collects news about Dalhousians from
all possible quarters, and publishes every
three months a journal known as The
Alumni News. The paper contains what
news has been collected during the period
and carries it to all Dalhousians everywhere so far as may be found. And the
Association has set before itself as the
goal of its activities for some time the
task of raising money to finance the building of a gymnasium at Studley as a mem
re
 

Bliss Carman gave his first lecture to
McGill students, Nov. 18th., the title of
which was “Poetry and Life.” After
leaving McGill, he will spend the first
two weeks of December at Toronto University, giving lectures interspersed with

 

f41,.. VE. degree at

work for the LL. M. degree. Mr. Dunlop
has just completed an excellent course at
Oxford. As a result of his record, both
at Dalhousie and at Oxford, he: was
awarded a post graduate scholarship.
Russell L. Snodgrass, B. A. LL. B., is also
taking the post graduate work for the
Harvard. Mr. Snodgrass graduated in 1925, receiving honourable mention. As soon as he arrived
at Harvard in September he was advised
by the Dean of the Harvard Law School
that he had been awarded a scholarship
result of his record at Dalhousie. |

—

as a

to Mr. Dunlop and Mr. Snodgrass.

Art Exhibit

There is at present a fine exhibit of
pictures at the Technical College. Students who are interested in art will find
this collection well worth seeing. These
paintings are lent by the Dominion Archives of Ottawa to Nova Scotia and are
under the supervision of Miss Nutt, Principal of the Victoria School of Art.

Christmas vacation will soon be
here. When you are getting a new
supply of the “filthy lucre’’ before
returning to Dal be sure you include
the odd shekel to take your best girl

 

in
EXAMINATION
PERIODS

Students will kindly observe the following changes in
the lists of examinations posted in Arts and Science at

|The Gazette extends its congratulations | Studley.

Those previously posted
to be held on Saturday, December 19, from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
will be held on Tuesday, December 15, from 3 p.m. to
5p.m. While those previously
posted to be held on Tuesday,
December 15, from 3 p.m. to
5 p.m. will be held on Saturday, December 19, from 3 p.m.

Prof.—"‘When did
Learning take place?”

Student—“‘Just before examinations.’

the Revival of

 

° ‘ this, however, goes back to the|speech at the trials and now completes
Ben Johnson Inigo Jones,|the Intercollegiate Team.

  

readings from his own poems. to the Dental Dance. (Stanstead College Magazine.)

 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE December 3, 1925

 

Page Two

 

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”

(Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
—ArtHur L. Murpuy, 26.

Associate Editors:

Mary A. BeresForp, 26.
Avis H. MArsHAtt, 27.
Ronatp Hayes, 26.
Warren Pvusticover, 26.

Financial Editor:

Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

WAKE UP! DALHOUSIANS

THE SPARROWS

The November sun shone goldenly, one lone white cloud hung tazily in the blue
sky, a crisp wind was directing a teaf dance at my feet, and in the middle of the road
some philosophic brown sparrows were enjoying a sun-warmed dust bath. The
sparrows carried me in thought across the years to the day when I tried to follow
their example and, stripping my small four-year-old body of its garments, joined
them in a dust bath with the unfortunate result however, that the village busybody
reported the scandalous procedure and I had to spend a summer afternoon in bed,
in disgrace. ‘Thus it was I learned my first lesson in what someone calls “the relativity of right and wrong,” that what is right for the birds of the air is wrong for a
four-year-old!

The day was inspiring, memories of childhood are ever heartening things so it
was with a feeling of glad serenity I entered the Forrest Building and, as I mounted
the stairs, I found myself humming softly:

My heart has blossomed in singing,

From my lips the bird of song

Flits tightly, carolling, echoing, winging

The lonely desert along.

And the voice of my heart is ringing

In many a still recess;

And born of the joy in my heart, is up-springing
The rose of the wilderness.

“This might do for the Gazette,” I thought, ‘‘I must let the Editor hear it.”’

THE EDITOR’S DEN.

But the song died on my lips as I entered the Editor’s den. He was pacing the
room, with a deep frown on his face. That care should sit so heavily on the brow
of one so young!

“Good-morning,”’ said I, brightly.

“Good-morning,”’ he replied gloomily. ‘Sit here, M. A. B.,”’ and he offered me
his own chair on the judicial side of the table.

I sat down gingerly. Perhaps the chair was weak like the one Professor Stewart
sat in the other day that nearly ended forever the debate between Intuition and
Reason. Perhaps there was a trick in it. I sat down. It felt very hard. I said
so and Avis, kind, gentle Avis who is ever ready to help, volunteered to borrow a
cushion from a learned Professor’s room. Yes, it was a trifle more comfortable, but
my feeling of suspicion returned when the Editor placed a clean sheet of paper in
front of me.

y

THE TASK.
*

“I want you to write an Editorial this week—on the Gazette—on writing for
it, you know.” So there was a trick in it after all.

“My pen is empty and I haven't a pencil,” I said. “O, that’s all right,’ and he
felt in all his pockets, but the state of his writing equipment was as barren as my
own. “Lend me your pen, Ron,” he said, and R. H. produced his best pen that is
always in tune. But the paper lay blank and the silence began to grow oppressive.
Then the genial W. P. came in shedding one of his cheerful smiles over the room and
the atmosphere felt less tense.

“I don’t know what to say,’ I groaned, “I’ve already given you as many ideas
as one confused brain possesses.’’ ‘‘That’s all right,” said the Editor, “just tell
them what you feel about their lack of support—you know what you feel,
don’t you?” “Oh yes, I feel plenty.’’ ‘Well, write it down,” and off he
went. The others followed him, leaving me with the blank sheet of paper So
here you are.

THE SERMON.

Well now, you ought to be ashamed of yourselves, every one of you—all except
the few loyal people who have sent in something for the Gazette. Those of vou who
were here last year were not proud of the Gazette, especially when you thought of
outsiders reading it. Some of you have told meso. This year the Editor is doing
his best to make it better, to make it more literary, to make it more representative
of the opinion and of the criticism of the student body, as well as a record of events
in field and hall. If you can suggest any improvement let him have the benefit of
your thought; if there is anything you object to do not bear a grudge in your heart
but tell him straight what you think is wrong. But if you aren't going to support
the Editor at all, then his wisest course would be to lock up the Gazette office, and
for the rest of the session there will be no Gazette. Do you, or do you not, want a
Gazette? If you don’t, write him a letter, 700 letters, right away saying so; if you
do then you must, you simply must support him. He can’t possibly run the Gazette alone. He has a Committee, you say! Yes, but they can’t write all the
Gazette and even if they could you wouldn’t want to read their stuff all the time
their style and their matter probably don’t please you even in small quantities so
what would you say to the same stuff all the year round.

 

IT’S UP TO YOU.

There are some things one must support at College and if there is a College paper
it is certainly one of the things it is your duty to support. To rush to the Library
on Thursday, get a Gazette, read it and say its rather poor is to condemn yourself
not your Editor, and if you condemn yourse:f and do not try to do better, that,
surely, is the sin unpardonable. What actually should happen some weeks, is that
you should be given a blank issue with only the words writ large, ‘‘This is the Gazette according to you!’’ We are very keen on precedent in this University, nobody ever has the courage to kick over the traces. This is probably the reason whv
no Editor has been daring enough to present his readers with a blank issue, but I believe a little temerity in this respect might prove distinctly useful.

High Class Barber ||||| Dalhousie Students

i E
Up-to-date shop, with four GET YOUR

chairs and FIRST CLASS STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
BARBERS in attendance. CONFECTIONERY

Speciat Bopsinc PaRtors SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
Bie adies CIGARS and CIGARETTES

A. PUBLICOVER Academy ae Store

23 Spring Garden Road

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

 

 

Dalhousie Students

You can save considerable, and

dollars in some cases, by buying

college supplies at our store—
such as

Bound Note Books Pencils
Loose Leaf Note Books Fountain Pens

Loose Leaf Refills Index Supplies
Drawing Paper Etc.

Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd.

Commercial Stationers

152 GRANVILLE STREET

CASINO

MONDAY, TUESDAY

Claire Windsor

“WHITE DESERT”

WEDNESDAY ,THURSDAY
ALL STAR CAST

_“ CHICKIE”

FRIDAY, SATURDAY

Fred Thompson

“THUNDERING HOOES”

  

     
  

Kino i
CIGARETTES

 
    

15‘ per pkt.
When in Town 25 for 39°

ete ALSO IN TINS OF
Three Essentials 50 for 70¢
1. Pure Food and Candy

   

2. Prompt and Courteous
Service

3. Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. Geo. Alexander

SS

—
/

   

Manufactured by
Imperial Tobacco Co of Canada, Limited.

 

 

THE LITTLE BLACK BOX.

Tradition has it that a former Editor hit upon the device of a Gazette box in the Books About Nova

Scotia

halls whereby he hoped to ensure a continual supply of material for his magazine.
And now it hangs empty. No, not always empty. Sometimes the Editor finds a
manuscript therein and brings it forth with palpitating heart while his committee
stand breathlessly round, and behold, ‘‘no report this week; the Hockey Match be
tween the Professors and the Freshettes has been postponed—” But those piles of

academic wisdom and academic humor that we look for never appear. agas O
The Gazette is issued weekly and consists of twenty issues of fifteen columns,

excluding advertisements, and two double numbers. These columns must be filled

by the students, and if there are no contributions from the students the Gazette will The Sea

consist of five columns of advertisements, unless the Committee fill up the rest, which
would mean that each member of it must be responsible for fifty columns per session.

I can hardly hold the pen for thinking of it. Old P ’
rovince

A BLACKER PICTURE.

Now if a College magazine is to be a real success it must not be filled by the work Tales
of a few. The evils arising from this are many. One is that the paper is sure to
have startling fluctuations in quality—if one member is unable to write his or her
share the magazine is bound to suffer. Another is that however able a man may be —_—___—_____. 2, —
he cannot be three people at once,—he cannot be funny when nature has made him .

melancholic, or write poetry when he believes the Burns statue an eyesore, or write .

serious articles when his favorite author at large is Irvine Cobb. And the student Archibald MacMechan
body at large grows tired of having tha same reflections de rerum natura spread
before it week after week, forgetting the remedy is in its own hands.

Again the effect on the few regular contributors must be considered. Most of
them—all of them—care very much for what they write,and they are forced to
make the greatest sacrifice men or women who care for writing can make: they have
deliberately to write below their highest level—the poet must sit down to his writine
invila Mineria, and an article must have a hasty conclusion tacked on to it before
it has been fully planned because the columns must be filled.

UNION IS STRENGTH. S$ 2 4. () ()
»

I am startled at the picture I have drawn. Perhaps things arn't wizte so bad
as that, but I want you to believe they are. For there are scores of people at Dal. |
+

 

 

 

who can write but never do write. Of course it will mean a little time and a little

8
meditation, but we do not ask you to write often. If every one who can write— uit O]

and you all write themes, don’t you?— were to send in a one-column article once a
month we should seriously have to consider enlarging the Gazette and the gain in

 

Ss

variety and freshness would be enormous. So when next you have an hour of leisure
remember the little black box. Make this one of your New Year resolutions! ver Od
ABOUT THE LITERARY “D.”’

to your measure. Best value

That was explained to you in the first number. Personally I'd like to see every- .
; in Canada.

one working for the Gazette without any “D’s” or anv prizes. Surely if you want
a Collége magazine you will write for it without any ulterior motive. Asa:
fact the “D"’ seems to have given some people quite a wrong attitud
Some of you have a “D’’ so you don’t write any more; some of you say you never |

As a matter of

e to the paper. |} See the many advantages

: + ¢ Ae xy +7 , * lnc TAAT Xr ’ : c
tried for one and as you are in your last year you needn't begin now; some of you
point the finger of scorn and say the “D” is awarded at so many points a foot, as if
you were buying tape. Well, we are all aware the awarding of the ‘Literary BY hee

we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your

(Continued on page 3 column 1.) clothes.

|
CU cee om ayy ee
Clayton & Sons

A Complete HALIFAX

Musical Service The Green Lantern

INSTRUMENTS is a restaurant where

ST
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

 

Pure Foops are

A Full Line of the Best Classical, served at Moderate
Standard and Popular Prices. :: 32
SONGS,

PHINNEYS Limited Light Lunches and Ice Cream

ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

   
    

Bee JEWELRY FAIRLY

PRICED
H. C. HENDERSON

 
   
 

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville
lee

     

 

 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
    
    
   
   
    
    
   
     
   
 
 

ee

__ - WAKE UP! DALHOUSIANS
eM," (Continued from page 2.)

been a literary award, and sometimes students work quite hard and
ough points for a “D."’ So we would like a frank expression of
ie students as a whole. Do you believe in a “Literary D” to be
‘real literary work? Would you like to have the “D” abolished
i you prefer to have it called (as I think it is in essence usually)
) be awarded to those who put in so many hours working for the
_in writing literary articles, reporting news, or in reading proofs at
_ We really would like your honest opinion since your present comtt the “‘D” is not fulfilling its function at all.

THE CONTEST.

also a Literary competition. The Gazette staff is not participating in
t the entries so far are few in number and the quality of some of them is
igh as we'd like since the judges are outsiders and not ourselves. In some
e—not in all of it—there is one fact plainly evident, viz.; that the writer
and said to him or herself, “I must write poetry.” It can't be done.
rse for its sincerity, or its smartness, or because it sears your soul until
t down,and you may produce something. But do not ape art in verse.
eS prose. There is an idea abroad that verse is more difficult to write than
Isn't this a mistake? Rhyme sometimes covers up any deficiency in idea,
a the idea is everything so you have to take pains with your writing.
f you have asked us, ‘‘What shall we write about?” Write about anything
ve a fresh thought to give on it, or a new way of saying an old thought.
iple of columns on ‘‘The Kitchen Stove,’’ and how we shall thank you; or on
ident MacKenzie’s Narcissus'’—have you watched its frail beauty unfold in the
y, or do you never see anything of the loveliness around you? Sharpen your
ic pencil and write on ‘Professors I have known’'—or perhaps you don’t
rour professors, but only their lectures! Tickle your muse if she be a Thalia,
Erato walk her around Studley and down with the result on paper. If they are
right—well, the Editor has had his effusions rejected too. Above all try
When he rejects one of mine I send him two more!

NOT EZEKIEL.

And may I remind you all to write on one side of the paper only. It is true
kiel says, ““‘When I looked, behold a hand put forth by a spirit to me, and in it
‘the roll of a book which he unfolded in my sight and it was written on the front and

on the back,’’ but unfortunately it is not the book of Ezekiel we have to deal with
the Gazette, and if you persist in writing on both sides of the paper then the
litor has to sit down and copy out your article before the printer will take it.
Some of you also omit a title to your contribution and he has to spend time thinking
one out, and since he isn't you he very likely chooses one that annoys you. He
hasn't time to do all this.

WANTED, A JESTER.

a One word more. I feel our columns are lacking in the bright spots of student
life without which even the best Gazette must be a “‘melancholy Jacques.” We need
___ jottings on student doings and misdoings and utterances, not puerile personalities,
but jokes and humorous incidents that everybody will enjoy. Please do not be
offended O Men of Pinehill when I say Dame Rumor hath it that Achilles-like ye do
sulk in your tents because the Pinehill column has been cut out. The fact that no
particular column is labelled ‘‘Pinehill” need not make you keep all your ‘‘quips,
cranks and oddities” secret and sz rosa. Some magazines run on the system of a
Prose column, a Poetry column, a Personal column, and if you like, a Pinehill column. This surely, is too stilted and sterotyped for a student's paper. Also it
stands to reason that it is easier to collect humorous material in residence than anywhere else; it is harder to fill half a column from scattered data than to fill two columns from data that is quarantined. So we do not want to put things into watertight compartments but we do want all the amusing happenings and all the witty
___ sayings of everybody, of those in residence, of those who live at home, of those who
~~ board in town. Students and also Professors are essentially funny people. When-—s ever ~they amuse you drop a little note about the matter into the Gazette box.

—., a

*.

y

LASTLY.

But there is the Editor’s voice in the corridor! I must escape ere he reads this
lest his wrath descend upon my head. He may think I have spoken much too
‘frankly and at too great length. But he told me to write down what I felt about the
Gazette and I have done so. I am willing to accept any criticism you care to make.
But I ask you all to think over seriously what I have said and ask yourselves these
questions: What is the function of a University magazine? Has the Gazette
afunction? If so, does it discharge it? The Gazette is yours; it is your moral duty
as it should be your joy, to write for it.

M. A. B.

 

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

But Important

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS

Yy OUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat
College Christmas Cards

may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLtar
you wear—it is the one article of

dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
that confidence which comes from
good grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no welldressed man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,
which is so acceptable.

   

18 Spring Garden Road
‘Phone Sac. 692

 
  

  

  

  

Winters-Burns Ltd.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS FOR

Society Brand Clothes

Correct Dress ror STUDENTS

   
   
   
 
    
        
   

L 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry

85 West St. 437 Barrington Street

Don’t Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’'S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert s=rvice. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand, Our Harr Curtine is sure

Dalhousians Sports
Goods Depot

7-4 Agents and Distributors of the

|| famous SWIPER HOCKEY

|| STICK. Special discounts to
me " bubs:

  

  

Lvotzs’ Gata Curtine in all
Curunc, SHAMPOOING and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.
Phone S 4780

ae t-F

. Mac P POLL a it Hardware Co.
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 
   

41 Sackville St.

 

 

 
    

On Wednesday afternoon, Nov. 25th,
he Commerce Society held the first of
a series of lectures by prominent business
men of the city. The Cuban Consul
General, Dr. Bonet, was speaker. He
took as his subject ‘Business Relations
with Latin America.”” The speaker was
introduced by President MacKenzie who
at the same time took the opportunity of
endorsing the work of the Commerce
Society. Dr. Bonet was introduced as a
man who had considerable reputation as
a speaker and a scholar, holding among
other degrees his Ph.D. in International
Law. The lecture which was well attended not only by the students of the Commerce Department but by many other
students as wel, proved to be most interesting and helpful. A summary of the
lecture is given in another column.

We are glad to see the exams posted
once more. They serve to distract our
attention from those enjoyable reports
which so many of us have been writing
in the past few weeks.

We take pleasure in announcing that
the Commerce students have already beto settle down to hard work. This fact
can be easily proved by noting the absence
of these students from the Auditorium
on Saturday night.

Sone of the new Commerce banners
have been completed and are a credit to
the Society. The background is yellow
with black lettering. At the left of the
banner is the Commerce emblem, with
the year in which the student graduates
inserted in place of the word Society. At
the right the word Dalhousie is placed in
Old English lettering.

The turnout on Friday afternoons for
gym and basketball has so far been small.
These weekly workouts are a good chance
to keep in good physical condition and
should not be missed. Remember that
we want a team in the interfaculty league
this year, and that this can only be accomplished if a sufficient number of players
can be secured.

Lecture by Dr. Bonet on Foreign
Trade.

“Foreign trade is a great necessity,
it’s a great factor for the prosperity of the
individual community as well as for the
world at large,’’ said Dr. Bonet, Formerly foreign trade had not been understood and had been unpopular owing its
dangers, but now modern means of transportation and communication enable
it to be carried on as confidently and
easily as domestic trade. Back of these
facilities however, there must be an intimate knowledge of foreign business
and economic conditions.

Turning to the question of exportation,
with which he dealt at some length, he
said that the essential requirement was
a well defined foreign policy, accompanied
by a good plant organization. <A fundamental principle carries with it the
assurance of prompt deliveries and excellent service. Prices are of but secondary consideration in this respect.

As regards the use of commission
houses as a means of promoting sales in
foreign countries, care should be taken
in their selection. If a company’s own
salesmen are to be sent abroad they
should be especially qualified as to character, education, ability to sell, language
of the country and recommendations.
Salesmen are everywhere, but efficient
ones are few. These men command high
salaries; high enough to allow them to
mix socially with the business men of
foreign countries, for a great deal of business is often obtained at dinners, receptions, etc.

A hindrance to our relations with the
Latin American countries is the condition
of the monetary systems of those countries, which in the smaller countries were
not dependable.

The German traders were mentioned as
being before the war, among the greatest
in the world, and we would be wise to
follow theif methods. He gave sixteen
rules of foreign trade as set forth by an
able German economist.

The talk was a most practical one and
largely from the standpoint of his own
experiences. *

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

 

 

 

 

rce Review Critic

This week the Exchange Editor has
received two magazines from colleges of
the Church of England—one from the
University of King’s College, Halifax,
and the other from Trinity University,
Toronto. Before we go further let me
say that publicationsfrom Church of Eng1and institutions have always been noted
for their high literary value, and these
current issues both uphold that enviable
tradition.

We have been waiting patiently for
the King’s College Record to make its
appearance, and I am glad to report that
our hopes are fully justified in reading
this interesting and laudable publication.
It is written throughout in a good readable style and has a message which may
generally be read with profit—an excellent collection of information and advice
designed particularly to inspire students.
The material is well arranged and ingeniously presented, alternating serious
and light articles interspersed with
poetry, and drawings which show the
presence of a real artist at the University.
“H. R."’ is to be complimented on his appreciation of the work of Charles G. D.
Roberts and the influence of Old King’s
upon him; while ‘‘R.W.S."” has written a
clever article in a light and amusing vein
on a solemn topic, namely ‘“‘Epitaphs.”’
As its name implies, this magazine is essentially a Record of the doings at King’s,
and as such will no do&bt prove a valuable
source of information in future years for
anyone desiring knowledge of this period
in the university's history

The Trinity University Review is of
course a monthly, and therefore of smaller
dimension than the King’s College Record.
It comes from a college which lays stress
on scholastic attainment, a college where
character as well as brains is taken into
consideration. We are living in a day
of fads, and not the least popular of these
fads is that of the curtailment of so-called
“useless effort’’ in the interest of efficiency
Ours, likewise, is a day of haste and-hurry;
a day when we are offering ample
oblations upon the altar of Mammon.
Students find their time taken up with
the cares and anxieties of the classroom,
and the foibles of the social world.
Calvin Coolidge, in speaking recently on
this very point, said: “The mere
sharpening of the wits, the bare training
of the intellect, the naked acquisition of
science, while they would greatly increase
the power for good, likewise increase the
power for evil. An intellectual growth
will only add to our confusion unless it is
accompanied by a moral growth.” It is
rarely that we find a college like Trinity
which serves to clarify its students’ ideas
on the true meaning of life, and which

inculeates into them a seriousness of
purpose. E. M. Reid’s article, ‘Ramsay

MacDonald, 1866—1938,”" is skillfully
handled and shows a keen sense of
prophecy, especially his reference to the
elusiveness of the “Golden Era,’’ which
future generations will continue to see
‘Sust ahead.”

“The Gold and Black”? coming from
St. John’s College, Winnipeg, is interesting
to Dalhousians for two reasons. First,
because we carry on our college work
under the same colors; indeed, I know of
no other institution on this continent
besides St. John’s that has chosen Gold
and Black for its standard. And second
because, Mr. D. Towers, a graduate of
King’s College and well known to many
Dalhousians, is the New Master of St.
John’s. St. John’s is a boys’ school and
its paper, although well written, is essentially a boys’ paper.

As a sample of assiduity and ability
on the part of young students comes
“The Tattler’’ from Greenville High
School, Kentucky. It is a typical High
School paper full of interesting items,
music notes, editorials and short stories.
Although there is nothing in the paper to
signify how often it is published, I assume that it is a weekly. It is really a
commendable undertaking. i

It is gratifying to see that at least one
student is desirous of reading the Dalhousie Review; because there is no doubt
about it that Dalhousie ‘students are not
reading the Review as they should. Personally, I consider the Dalhousie Review
to be the biggest chip on my desk. It
gives evidence of a well-tempered axe
in the hands of a well-endowed, welltrained and expert axeman. It is the
University’s official and representative
organ and all students should want to
read it. Contributors to the Review are
stylists and the editor a purist, so I shall
follow up your suggestion, ‘Reader,”
and ask that a copy be placed in the
library for the benefit of the students.

 

 

 

Sn eee

Choose Someone’s
Gift Today.

Christmas shopping may be either a
laborious task in the last hectic
Christmas days—or a restful treasure
hunt among the odd, the smart, new
things that come early to Birks for the

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
HALIFAX

 

th ene EES ——sae

Page Three

From The Mail Bag

To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

Herewith my subscription to the Gazette. I would like to compliment the
Editor and his associates on the marked
improvement in the paper.

D. MACGILLVRAY.

To the Editor,

Dear Sir:

Will you kindly allow me space in your
publication to ask why it is that there
is no telephone for the use of the students
at Studley? Last year there was one
installed in the gymnasium where it
proved very useful and convenient. This
year, however, the phone has disappeared.
Whether this was due to it being a commercial failure or to some whim on the part
of the University is not known. Surely
it would be in the interests of the Universsity, as well as in the interests of the
students, to have a students’ phone at
Studley, sinceit would eliminate the bother
of having students asking permission to
use the phone in the University Office.
Something should be done in this matter
and done immediately.

Dalhousie Gazette

Thanking you, I am,
Yours sincerely,
sir EAL

WALKING THROUGH THE SNOW.

ihe morn hath broke the gate of night,
And lo, the skies do smile:

And sleepy twilight stares around
To linger for awhile.

Some fairy hands have spread the sheet,
A carpet sparkling white,

Over the frozen river's breast—
A veil of silver bright.

 

 

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers a2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Destens,
also Weppinc Bouquets. We
also do Tasie Decoratince. We
are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

 

 

 

 

A Real Science
Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern

science for this purpose,

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your cloth
Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

ing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives
clothes.

your

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers
SS

 

 

 

 

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and College Text Books

 

Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

 
 

    
        
 

 
 

SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

At The Casino

Clair Windsor, who plays a featured

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

December 3, 1925

   

  
  

|

iA)

Physical Training Come to the Gym, Girls! Dalhousie overcomes

It has long been regretted that there

role in “The White Desert” a production} has been no definitely organized form of

directed by Reginald Barker, which. will

physical training at Dalhousie. There

be shown at the Casino Monday and are many students who do not take an
Tuesday, knows what the word “struggle” | active part in any of the main sports

means.

in which the university participates, and

Even though she has a super-abundance | who do not get consistent and regular
of beauty and much ability, it was a long | exercise whom a system of physital train
hard road for her from the time she enter- | ing would surely benefit.
ed pictures until she became a leading | <ort is carried on in many

woman.

Miss Windsor was born in Cawker,| gone at Dalhousie.

Training of this
of the other
and could be
who saunter

universities of the continent
Those

Kansas, and educated at Washburn Col-| into the gym, to while away a spare hour
lege. When the family moved to Seattle | jp playing with a basketball or volley-ball
she decided to enter motion pictures. could well be organized into a group for
She registered as an “extra” in Hollywood physical training at certain hours, and

and eked out a starving existence until

take practical lessons in the use of the

she was finaily recognized as an actress| qumbell or other gym. equipment from

of ability.

the instructor. It is thus that the great
Some of her well-known performances | ect benefit can be had from the gymnas
were in ‘Fools First,” ‘“The Strangers’
Banquet,”. “The Eternal Flame," ‘The

ium, which would then be serving its
real purpose, instead of as a recreation

Little Church Around the Corner” and PHOT,

“The Denial.”

 

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

     
     
   
   
   
  

 

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

—ALSO—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

  
 

Majestic Bldg.

HALIFAX N. S.

*e
**

Leading Halifax Theatres

Direction J. F. O’Connell

MAJESTIC

WEEK OF DEC 7

LILLIAN GISH

in

‘“ROMOLA’”’

 

STRAND

The Best

Musical Comedy
and Vaudeville

 

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE
Y. M. €. A, Bldg,

Optometrist & Optician

 

 

 

R.

 

The Ordeal

In that “light and airy’’ spot—the basement of the Science- Building—I watched
him, fascinated, as he stood there in the
semi-darkness with head lowered over a
heaving chest and his body bent in a
fantastic curve. He thrust his nght arm
sharply forward and a yell of anguish
was heard as his knuckles met the invisible
adamantine wall. His left arm with
clenched fist, was crooked painfully behind him. Then his entire body began
to twist and turn spasmodically from the
waist up, while his legs he thrust apart
with many faltering jerks. His face,
haggard from anxiety, wore a desparate
and determined expression and the veins
stood out on his temples in throbbing
ridges. My eyes grew dim with tears of
sympathy—for alas! I realized the agony
he was enduring. Suddenly with grim
resolution, which showed itself in set lips
and squared jaw, he heaved his shoulders
convulsively again and again in rapid
succession, whilst his feet beat a sharp
tattoo on the stony floor and glistening
beads of perspiration stood out upon his
furrowed brow. Finally he lurched forward, gasping for breath and almost
crashed to the cruel concrete—face down.
Unable to restrain myself any longer, I
rushed to his side to lend assistance, but I
was too late. The overcoat was on at
last.

 

 

Fa GuP,

 

 

You know the rest of this

ALPHA BETA alphabet, but won't you

learn the music from a Music Dealer's Text Book.
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, etc.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR

FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

 

 

_ Students, Please

ducts of Waterman, Parker

the best factories in many lines.

that we carry a full stock of Pens and Pencils, including the proand Wahl Pens and Eversharps, and
that we maintain a SERVICE STATION where we give prompt
and accurate service on repairs and replacements.
full stock of goods for GIFT SEEKERS—the choicest products of
BUY HERE FOR CHRISTMAS.

COOLEY BROS.

395 BARRINGTON STREET

        
         
     
 

Take Notice-
  

We also carry a

Jewelers

   

 

Unless the co-eds take more interest,
perhaps when they are building the new
Gym, they will not need to take the girls
into consideration and will equip it only
for the boys.

Please plan to turn out after Chnistmas. So few have been turning out for
the regular Gym work, that we have already forfeited one hour a week to the
Basket Ball team, and if there is not a
large enough number we shall have to
forfeit both. Therefore please try your
best to come out if only once in a while,
it will do you more good than you can
imagine.

BETTY FREEMAN,

Manager of Gym Work.

And Reduce

Now is your chance girls! People have
been searching for centuries for a good
method of losing avoirdupois. Think of
your added charm?!! And yet, in face of
this wonderful opportunity, you turn
away and take no notice. This method,
this wonderful opportunity of which I
speak is BASKETBALL. Come out and
play. Try to make the first, second,
third, fourth or even fifth teams. Think
how much stronger you will become by
plaving basketball, and you will not get
nearly so many bad colds, etc. We will
only be having a few more _ practices
before Christmas. But, if more girls do
not turn out, it simply means that some
of our baskethall nights will be given to the
boys. Now, surely, none of you want
this to happen. Then, turn out and prove
to us that you take SOME interest, in
basketball. Our schedule is:—Monday
night, 7.30 to 8.30; Thursday night,
7.30 to 8.30; Saturday morning, 12 to 1.

MARJORIE THOMPSON,
Manager.

Brief mention has been made to the
death of Dean Weldon. Further reference to this will be made next week.

 

TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington S'‘s.

Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

BOB JOHNSON’S

 

 

SPORTS

| “LIGHTNING - HITCH ”
HOCKEY BOOTS |

 

| *L. B.”” BASKET-BALL
BOOTS

TEBBUT’S FOOT BALL
BOOTS, Etc., Etc.

&) Stores |

 

Tuttle’s

 

 

 

 

 
    
              
     
     

om The

WINNERS From 1

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX N.S.

  

     
 

 

Acadia in Professors’

|
Tilt.
Dalhousie’s Profs defeated the Acadia

 

Profs by three games to one in their An
nual Volley Ball match at the Y.M.C.A.
a week ago last Saturday, beforeasmall but
enthusiasticaudience. The Dalhousie team
have lost ‘Sid’? Smith and Bishop Hunt
but with “Big Jim’’ Macdonald, Maxwell
and “Angus L.”’ MacDonald to take their
places they seem than ever.
They showed mid-season form’ in this
game and should be able to hold
without much trouble the City League
Championship which they won last year.

Dalhousie started off well winning the
first game 15-9. This produced some
excellent volley ball on both sides. .The
Acadians got most of their points by. excellent combination work near the net,

stronger

but Dalhousie played the steadier game
and overcame this disadvantage. ‘“Ang
us L” making his first appearance on the
Dal team played a good all round gane
and although he was on the bench fer the
remaining three games he showed up well
enough in the first one to warrant his
place on the team. In the second game,
which Acadia won 15-4, “Big Jim” went
on in place of “‘Angus L”’ and played very
well winning many points particularly
on his serve. Towards the end of the
third game (145-5) Acadia went to pieces
but in spite of this it was the best gate
of the match, being featured by several
long volleys one of them lasting nearly
two minutes. lt was in these long volleys that Dalhousie’s steadiness stood
them in good stead. Dean Read’s excellent work particularly was appreciated
by the gallery who at this stage speltout
“John” with great gusto and encouraged
him to further good work with several
Law yells, Wilson who is perhaps the
strongest man on the team also. got his
share of encouragement as did Vince
Macdonald who saved the ball several
times when it looked as though it was going to hit. the floor. The fourth game
saw the Acadians completely outclassed,
and Dalhousie won with ccmparative
ease, 15-7. For Dalhousie Read, Wilson
and Big Jim starred, being seldom credited with misses throughout the four games.
Acadia played well but got most of their
points by excellent net work the ball being finally driven cver with a killing shot
almost impossible to get back. A return
game will be played in Wolfville in the

near future and we wish them the best
of luck. It is regrettable that more students did not attend to cheer on their

Profs for these ones were on deck at nearly every football game this fall and, even
on the principle of ‘‘Turn about fair play”’
were deserving of a very much larger turn
out than they had. Line up:
Read, Wilson, Young Vince Macdonald,
Maxwell, Big Jim Macdonald, Angus L.
Macdonald. Acadia: Ross, capt., Sutherland, Saunders, Jeffries, Dr. Dewitt, Osbourne, Brown.

 

‘THE FOOTBALL FIELD.”’’

It has been brought to our notice
that certain students living in the
south end of the city have been
making a habit of taking a short-cut
across the Foot-ball Field at Studley,
on their way to and from college.
This practice is destructive to the
surface, making it necessary to re-seed
In view of the fact that this work
must be paid for by the Student
Body, it is naturally in their interest

ito refrain from destroying the field

and thereby incurring unnecessary
expense. We wish therefore to call
the attention of those students to

the desirability of their keeping off |

the Foot-ball!l Field from now on.

 

    

The Dress Shop
The Hat Shop
The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

 

 

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail.

Jensen & MillsCo. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

|

————<—$_$_$_———————_—————

 

 

   
 

College Songs and
Yells

 

THE MED. SONG

1 There was a Med. from Dalhousie,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, bum, bum!
Who loved an awful mess to see,
Zwil-li-lwil-li-wick, bum, bum!
He'd spend twelve hours a day or more
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, juch-hei-ras-sa!
Dissecting corpses steeped in gore,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, bum, bum!
Dalhousie! Dalhcusie!
Zwil-li wil-li wick, juch het-ras sa
Dalhousie! Dalhousie!
Zwil-li wil-li wick, bum, bum!

IO

He loved the pretty pussy cats,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, bum, bum!
To slice the sinews off their slats,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, bum, bum!
Vacation times he’s catch a frog,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, juch-hei-ras-sa!
And viv i sect him on a log,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, bum, bum!

~~

His surgery was up to date,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, bum, bum!
For gout he'd always amputate,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, bum, bum!
And if a case had swallowed tacks,
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, juch-hei-ras-sa!
He’d just tre pan him with an ax.
Zwil-li-wil-li-wick, bum, bum!

 

DAWN!

When turned to softer rose
The day’s white garish light,
And the still sun dropt suddenly,
Beyond our watching sight:

There came the night wind, and the stars
arose,
And the world whispered, “It
love!”
And sang the stars, “Cometh the dawn,
Grey dawn, apace—
With his harsh light upon thy face:

is night, my

Cometh the dawn, my love!”’
And the trees that cling in love and
fear,
The trees that hold the wood so dear,

All murmured: murmured they,
‘‘Now cometh day;

Day cometh, love!”

 

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA |

 

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four PreEssIncs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

 

Cable Address: “McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald
BARRISTERS, Soxricirors &c.
HALIFAX, N. S.

W. C. Macdonald, K. C

PF, B. A. Chipman
N. E. MacKay

Hector McInnes, K. C,
Stuart Jenks, K. C.
L. A. Lovett, K. C.

 

 

 

 

of the better quality, “Dent’s,”
“Perrin’s,’ “Acme” and other
standard makes. Leathers
which are SERVICEABLE,
Goop Fittine, StrytisH.

$1.50 to $6.50

KELLYS

LIMITED
GRANVILLE STREET

Men’s GLOVES |

 

 

 
