  

 
 
 

_ thoughts:

_ George

    
  

 

_—
 

Prologue.

“The Evening Telegram learns that
the final design for Branksome Hall
has been received from Mr. Geo. LE.
Toller of Halifax, N. S., and that work
will be begun at once. Mr. Toller was
formerly with the firm of Cather &
Wheelwright, architects, of this city.
He served overseas with the R. F. C.
winning a double D. S. O., and was
known as the youngest fighting pilot
in the service,”

I

On the portion of pavement dominated
by the Green Lantern Mr. George Toller,
with his velvet collar turned up, and
puffing viclently at a cigarette, nodded
to people passing him in the dusk,

e tolerantly returned their absorbed
murmurs, yet he was impressed by their
apathy. He had conceded to himself

t public recognition was essential to a
rising architect. It was essential even
to an ordinary architect, not to say a
potentially great one.
- Bishop, special reporter, arrived
mysteriously out of the gloom, stared
at him, and passed obscurely on.

“‘Darned poor taste!’’ thought George,
abruptly turning his back.

Then a cou door opened. His
cane ceased twirling as Katherine Ingram alighted on the curb.

“So you’ve ceme,” he protested.

“Do excuse me. Mother’s quite got
the house in an uproar with her tea.
Dad’s gone out too. Poor Dad. What
did ycu want to see me for?”

- She bore inside and up the steps.
: followed. Her powerful yet
c body exhaled a definitiness that
pene eres te mind with magical

. The fact was George’s mind

  
  
  
 
 
    

pied with innumerable minor
about himself. While he deosited his coat he resolved that the
spectacle of her should be not quite so
touching in future.

He crossed the room with a superior
and tolerant attitude, conscious that it
was half filled with the ordinary world,and
aware of its gaze. He distributed himself opposite Katherine Ingram, showing
his socks. ‘‘May 1 smoke?” he asked.

“Do! I’m having nothing. And
don’t tell me about your succcss—father
has been talking of it for two days. He
thinks your a genius—so do J,”

This creature was calling him a genius!
« # «George began to blow those great
clouds of smoke with which young men
demonstrate that their cigarette 1s
lighted.

“T do, honest, so that’s that. Now
make it fast; you know I’ve my packing
to do.”

“Packing to do!”’

“It’s arranged. I’m going to Poughkeepsie, all wint2r to study painting.
I’m going to have my hair cut like a boy
and wear high boots and paint. Have a
studio and give late suppers too. It’s
really running away from a respectable
home—but what can you expect? Res
ey mother’s god. I’m an
ngram, am. I—’”
‘See here—”’

She stopped him with a gesture, and
leaned forward, aware that privacy in the
cafe was relative. as

“George how beautiful your hair is!
Now listen! It’s not because father has

A VISION OF LUTHER.

 

The pale grey twilight’s drowsy comfort
- Lulls to rest the passing day.
My “History” is lying open,

antag forth a strange array

That passes by in dim enchantment
Ever granting new surprise.

Among the floating fleeting figures
Stands a monk with lifted eyes.

And as I watch, the princes near him
Glide away and change to stars

The cardinals and popes draw closer
Forming monastery bars.

The pompous kings and cold archbishops
Turn to trees, and all the scene,

Except the tense, cold face of Luther,
Changes—silent, dark, serene.

Around the massive monasteries

: Wistful glances meet rebuff,—
shudders, turns unto the heavens
Crying, ‘Lord 'tis not enough!”

_ The twilight, grey and mauve, then pur
- ee 2 '
Nestles in the arms of Night,

And Luther disappears—I wonder—
Did the kind stars grant him light?

My

my

Embers.

By F. Xavier de Lava!—Separator Montmorenci.

er

refused our engagement. Not a bit.
Only I've come to see Dad’s point of
view. I'll put it like this:—You're
enly a junior member with Dad. He
says that although you are clever—”

“You're making that up!’’

“He did, honestly. He said you were
clever, and have had considerable success,
but you were too young. That was it—
clever but young.’ He says you’ve a
lcng way to travel before you can sup
port me. _You see, he thinks I have
social ambitions,”
“TI see!’’ George said. Suavely he

flicked his cigarette behind a radiator
and rose. He was calmly conscious that
he was rising to the role of a man of the
world.

“Since, then, you think ycu ought to
choese between your father’s point of
view and me, why the affair—this charming mania—”’

“Be careful,’’ she menaced.

“I have always felt the force of the
{ngram in your father, Kate, but alas
I’ve never appreciated it in you.”

“What do you mean?” Her voice
faltered.

“The affair is over’’ said George.
“Goodbye—inde finitely!”

TF

On the far side cf the room a middle
aged gentleman was noting that his
daughter and Mr. George Toller were
having a bit of a row.

The young man was standing over his
daughter pronouncing on her with tones
of finality.

Toller passed quite clese to him, The
gentleman clutched at his napkin and
smiled furtively. In a moment he rose,
assumed his richly furred coat, and
followed out.

George was immobile by the curb,
his velvet collar askew, and with his
hat slightly raked over his eyes. His
skin registered quick abncrmal phenomena as he beheld Ingram walkout. Fora
moment their eyes met.

“Well I like this, I like this!” Ingram
exploded. ‘‘I suppose she’s been telling
you she is going to run away and be a
painter?”

“Ves, sir!’—breathing more frevly.

“Well, you needn’t worry abeut that!
Just stick to your work, Toller. I’ve
noticed my desk hasn't been arranged
lately. By the way, I want those old
city hall plans out the first thing in the
morning. And dusted,—dust them well!”
he added acridly.

Whether he thought Toller was going
to follow him int> his sedan, is not te be
recordea. The latter seemed to suddenly
stiffen inte elaborate respectfulness.

“What the Hell do you think | am—
a dust boy or something? Sir, I've
dusted a city hall off the face of the earth
before you’ve ever had your breakfast.
I’ve dusted a whole train full of men into
eternity before day break. In _ five
minutes I have clesed up a whole streetful of shops and offices as big as yours.
But dusting plans and arranging your
desk is all you seem to think I’m good for.
Gocd evening!”

Ingram seemed tc have difficulty with
closing the door of his sedan. George
reached out and shut it, and inadvertently slammed it.

“Do him good!” he said. Straightening his velvet collar, he walked away.

Phi Rho Sigma
Entertains

 

The Phi Rho’s have been anxious to
cpen their house to visitors for some
time. Last Saturday evening their
desire was fulfilled when the house boys
gave a little party for their friends to
inspect their domicile.

It was found to be pleasant and homelike. The double rooms were cleared for
dancing and the floor highly polished.
Upstairs one found the usual bachelors
quarters. Desks and tables were arranged as near as conveniently possible
to a fire place or stove, overhung with
lamp-shades, some artistic and some not
and all connected by an intricate maze
of electric cords. The walls presented
as speckled appearance, banners pennants
or oriental cuts interspaced with photos
of friends and “cousins” giving the
unmistakable signs of a young man’s
study.

 

“Zaraguetta” a Spanish play has been

recently presented by the ItalianSpanish Club of the University of
Toronto.

——— TT OEE LL LLBLLBLBLLLLLBDDDLL
LL
LLL LLL LLL LL tit

Earthbound

The wings of my soul are golden and frail,
As the wings of a butterfly;
The dream of my sou! seeks a wilderness
trail,
But the golden wings
crumple and fail,
And the dream of my soul must die.

falter and

For wings that are fragile like fairy dust
Forever beat into the blue;

Beat ever up to the God they trust,
Beat ever back as ever they must

To the quiet of earth and you!

And my soul is ashamed for the dream
that died
That climbed as the angels climb
Where the mountains are God and the
wind is wide
And the mighty silence ever abide,
To infinity of time.

My soul is ashamed—but I love its wings,
(Frail wings ef the butterfly!)
And after all, when the high lark sings,
And the flowers play on the earth's
heartstrings
What if a dream should die?

(For golden wings fly only true,
Close to the warm brown earth and

you!)
E. A. W. '26.
(In Acadia Athenaeum).

 

S. B. B. C.

CHALLENGE ROUND.

The challenge round for the championship of the Studley Bachelors Bridge
Club was played last week end and resulted in Sedgewick and Atwood successfully defending their title and retaining
the Gold Loving Cup for another year.
The final score of the game, which was
played under official S. B. B. C. rules was
1850-802." The winners established a
lead early in the game and captured the
first rubber 781-128. From then on they
were never headed though they faltered
somewhat in the second frame which went
to Wilson and Woedill 664-502. Conditien tolc in the end however and the last
rubber fell tc the “‘champs’’ 567-20.

The early histcry of the Gold Loving
Cup is doubtful but it is said that it was
presented to this ancient club by the
Earl of Dalhousie for annual competition
and was later found embedded in the
fourdation of Cld Dalhousie. It is however a beautiful trophy and one of the
finest examples of the goldsmiths art on
the American continent. The winners
have been deluged with telegrams of congratulations from many famous men all
over the world one in particular from
Douglas Campbell former President,

Commerce Society
Elect Officers

 

A short meeting of the Commerce
Society was held in Room 2 on Thursday,
4th of March. This meeting, the best
attended of the year, was for the purpose
of electing next years officers. The
following were elected:—

President—Arthur Jubien.

Vice-President—(not elected).

Secretary-Treasurer—H. C. Grant.

Executive—Miss MacDougall, R. Slay
ter.

Owing to a clause in the Society’s
Constitution which does not permit any
member to hold the same office for two
censecutive years, and which requires
that the Vice-President be a lady member, this office had to be left open until
the fall and the advent of new members.

-_—
Juniors Elect Officers

—

At a meeting held Thursday noon, in
Room 8 of the Arts Building, the following were named to guide the destines of
Class '27 during their Senior year:—

President—Murray Rankin.

Vice-President—} reda Winfield.

Secretary—Allison McCurdy.

_Treasurer—Arthur Jubien.

Executive—Minna Troop, Charl+s Rop
er, H. C. Grant

Chairman of Social Committee—Charles

Roper.

Murray Fraser, who so ably conducted
the affairs of the class during the very
successful year just ended, was unanimously elected President of the Arts and
Science Society.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 11th 1926

Sense
ee ee eS

   

ee a a ey

Five Cents The Copy

Speaking of Ghosts

It was a wild stormy winter’s
and we were all crowded around th
blazing fire telling yarns. Jack Brent
played the host—just some of the old
crowd who had gone to schcol together
and whcese many and varied experiences
now seemed all the more weird when we
looked back thrceugh the years—realizing
that once we'd all been licked by the
same old teacher for not doing the same
old lesscns—so utterly bewildering then.

“How'd you chaps like to hear a
ghost story?’ asked Bill Martin. We
all burst out laughing at the idea of fat
old Bill and ghosts—but Jack told him
to go ahead—to which we all eagerly
assented. So, after, the fire had been
replenished, he started in.

“You remember the time the Bank
sent me out west to Winnipeg? Well, in
hunting for rooms, | met three other
chaps similarly eccupied, so we thought
it would be a good pian to take a small
house together. Now ‘‘Winnie’’ wasn’t
at all a large town then, but the rents
were something fierce. We'd alm)st
given up the idea when someone told
us about a nice cottage situated in a remote part of the town, and which the
owner was willing to lease at a very small
figure because it was reputed to be haunted. No one would stay there, for it
seemed that it had been the home of a
recluse Indian who had been mysteriously
murdered—after which event, the sound
of his footsteps were said to have been
heard there once ina while. We laughed
at this, of course, and moved in at once.
What a cosy roost we made! All the
comforts of home and though the walk
was considerable, that didn’t bother us.”

Bill paused to replenish his pipe.
“We'd been there about three months
when one night my three pals went off
to a party—leaving me alone. How well
I remember it! Snow—snow; piles and
heaps of it rolling everywhere with the
desolation that only such a landscape
can show. The wind was sighing a little
and we knew by the sinister sky that
another storm was brewing. ! poked
the fire into life and settled Gown to
enjoy my favorite magazine, but my
eyes refused to stay open—I'd had a
rotten hard day at the office, you see, so
I just dozed off in no time at all. How
long I was asleep I don’t know; but I
suddenly woke up to find the fire out,
myself chilled to the bone as a result, and

the wind—but how can I describe the
wind and the awful shrieking, moaning
sound it made? Never had I heard
such a ghastly sound. It sobbed, it

yelled; it wailed like a te rrified child
and it groaned like a tortured soul. My
hands were trembling like aspen leaves—
darn it all my legs were, too! And soon
I was rattling all over, as it were. “Bill
my lad,” I said to myself, “‘get to bed,
if you don’t want to shake the china off
the shelves.”’ So to bed I went. How
beastly writhing the shadows seemed
and how feverishly I raced up the stairs’
Once I reached. my room, I undressed
with a speed of which I'd hardly believed
myself capable and buried myself deep
down in the clcthes. Remember the
way we used to do in a thunder storm
when we were kids?’’ We all confessed
except Ren Shaw, who merely grunted.

evening, Bill

went on, “I fell aslecp in time
of course, but I was very restless; and
the awful flap—flap of a loose wind-tossed
newspaper at my window thoroughly
aroused me. Not knowing this, I sat
up—my heart throbbing painfully.
What the—but I realized now what. it
was. What a relief! If only I—but
ye Gods! What was that | heard now?
Feard with new up-leaping h:art and
stiffening hair? Something—someone
was ascending the stairs! A slow, muffled steady. tread—increasing and ever
nearing me. Now did the story of the
lone Indian come seething back into my
chaotic brain. What fools we'd been
to take the place! My hand reached
under my pillow for my .45, but I knew
[’d never have the courage to pull the
trigger. On came the steps—on—on;
they are on the landing new—they are
coming along the hall—nearer, nearer
and ncw—good heavens! they are at
the door. How can I describe my feelings? Qutside, the wind still moaning
mercilessly; and inside, that—that thing,
at my door, which I waited, waited in an
agony of suspense, ‘There was a breathless pause and then the steps commenced
again. But now they were going back—
back down the hall, around the turn and
on away down the stairs—on—-on, ever
fainter new, till they were lost to the ear’.
We all waited tensely as Bill paused.
I sat there trying te think the thing out,
to calm my racing heart and do something.
ry as I would, | cculdn’t remember
where I’d put my candle. If only I could
get down stairs and light the lamp—lIt
must be done! With a supreme effort, I
started slowly from the room—cautiously
feeling my way with one hand and my
revolver in the other. Here I was at the
stairs—not much further, once I got-to
the bottom.
one hand on the bannister. I counted
the steps; six, seven—eight—nine—must
be pretty nearly down now, since the
ceilings were low. Ten—eleven—twelve
—thir—I never finished. My hand,
feeling for the post at the bottom, touch2d something rounded, soft, hairy! Ye
Gods! the Indian’s head; my bleod
froze in my veins; my heart stood still
tingling for a second, then flew off racing
perilously. Rooted to the spct, { stood
there enduring the agonies of the damned
for what seemed to me eternity. Really
though, it could not have been long,
before I heard the welcome click of a
latch key and the docr flung open, A
match was struck which revealed to three
astonished young men a pyjama-clad
hgure standing on the last step of th
stairs, with a revolver in one hand and
the ether grasping his cwn coon-coat
as it lay cver the rounded newel-post!
We all collapsed weakly back into our
chairs—shaking with helpless laughter
for some minutes. Then, inevitably
of course we heard—‘‘How do ycu explain ?’’—from the insatiable Ben.

‘We rever could, except that the unusual wailing of the wind was caused by the
“Aeolian harp” action of a bit of broken
glass wabbling in a high eave-set window.
As for th: footsteps,it’s quite possible I
dreamt it all, what do you chaps thinks
about it?”

 

Sociology Club
Meeting

The Sociology Club very wisely followed up the talks given recently on
Juvenile Delinquency by having as their
special speaker last week Mr. H. O.
kaman, Superintendent of the Halifax
Industrial Home for Boys. The speaker
described the training of the boys under
his care, their schosl werk, their work on
the farm and the general life in the Home.
He pointed out scme of the difficulties
under which this work of training neglected and delinquent boys is carried on.
The present Home was built in 1874 and
is now out-of-date and cramped for
space. A new building with sufficient
grounds to enable a proper training in
farming to be given and with equipment
suitable fer vocational training is badly
needed. The work is also hampered
by the fact that feeble-minded boys are
also sent to the Home, surely a most
foolish policy, and one bad both for the

feeble-minded and for the normally
intelligent boy.
After the address questions were

asked by various students regarding
different phases of Mr, Eaman’s work
and the vote of thanks moved by Mr.
Fielding and seconded by Mr. Davidson
was heartily applauded by all. This
was voted one of the most interesting
meetings held by the Sociology Club.

 

My Old Story Book

There's a faded look to my old story beok,
And it’s shabby as shabby can be;
It’s dirty and worn, and its leaves are all
torn;
[It’s clumsy and ragged to see!

There's a gurgling brook in my old story
book
Where the sunbeams dance all day.
And with roughish glee, the little imps
flee
When the fairies come that way!

There’s a little white mouse in the gingercake house
Where the wicked witches dwell
And goblins abound making ghostly
sound,
Near by an enchanted well.

And every night the stars shine bright
j In this land of Youth and Play;
Chere’s a big moon smiling—the dreams
beguiling,
Of children who laugh all day.

There’s a faded look to my old story book,
__ Yes—it’s shabby as shabby can be;
Though it’s dirty and worn—thouigh its
leaves are all torn,
There’s happiness in it for me,

DOROTHY R. BLOOMFIELD '28,
(In McGill Daily),

Down I started carefully— .

YO Se a ee eg

 
   
 

Pc eg ee ae - = es

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”

(Founded 1869)

es Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpny, 26.

Associate Editors:

Mary A. Beresrorp, 26,
Avis H. Marsnwatt, 27.
Ronatp Haves, 26.
Warren Pusticover, 26,
J. J. Lysons Arwoop, '28,

i Financiai Editor:

a? | Cuas. F. MacKenzie,

| 18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

Petition Presented to
Library Committee.

It is gratifying to realize that our Work Campaign is bearing
such good fruit. On all sides the students have taken whole-heartedly to the idea and their hearty co-operation, besides showing their
thorough appreciation of the spirit in which the idea was fostered,
promises well for the welfare of the individual members of the Campaign during the ordeal of examinations whichis fast approaching.
At this time of year enthusiastic study is an unwritten duty incumbent upon each student; real academic life should be the student's
only life. It is the period of college life when the plasticity of mental
powers and the maturity of thought develops. Impressions and ideas
received during this period are likely to be profound and lasting—a
mighty valuable asset when you find yourself in the examination
room. Now is the last opportunity for those who really mean to
make their work this year at Dalhousie a success to draw up a schedis ule and follow it. Many undergraduates have already mapped out a
Z ‘program to which they will adhere until the final examinations. But

it is highly probable that the vast majority have been letting time
E ‘Arift along without considering the direction in which they are head| ing. Self-examination will, in many cases, startle the thinker with
: its evidence of wasted hours and divided attention. If social activiry ties or too much sport has interfered with studies, this is the time to
make up lost ground. It is surely not wise to let things slide nor to
adopt the attitude that a week before the examinations provides
ample time for work, and that mental fitness can be obtained over
_ night. If, therefore, upon reflection, you come to the conclusion
that you are not getting all the benefits of study at Dalhousie, now
is the time of remedy.

As evidence of seriousness on the part of the students—resulting,
we believe, in a large measure from the initiative furnished by our
Work Campaign—our support has been solicited during the past
week in favor of a petition which has gone about among the students
asking that the Macdonald Memorial Library at Studley be kept open
till six o'clock, at least until the end of the present college year. In

our opinion, no greater compliment could be paid to the librarians,
and nothing could more fitly illustrate the interest of the students 1a
their work than the birth of such a petition. It should be a comfort
to the librarians to give those of us, who, for various reasons consider
our different subjects valuable enough to claim good hard study, the
opportunity to pursue that study under more favorable conditions.

There is nothing unreasonable in this petition as most Dalhousians who have been here a few years, and who have had previous
experience in endeavouring to gain access to the books of the library
just before examinations, well know. During the final drive there is
no small difficulty in securing the particular book wanted. Works of

) importance are sometimes ‘‘booked up”’ for a week or more ahead;
: and sometimes can be had for only an hour or two ata time. Under
the present system a student having a four-thirty to five-thirty class
who wishes to take a book home with him over night must take the
book from the library before four-thirty and carry it to class with
him, where it must needs lie idle for a whole hour during which time
some other student could be making good use of it. Again, there is
often difficulty in getting a book back again to the library at nine
o'clock in the morning if the student has early classes, because the
library is not open in time for him to return the book before his class,
and we all know that according to the present peristence of professors
¢o overrun their classes past the ringing of the first bell, that there is
no time between classes to go to the library without being late for
the next class, thereby endangering the loss of credit for attendance.
We would therefore suggest also that the library be opened at eight
- forty-five.

However, it might seem rather sudden to hope for the Utopian
hours enjoyed by the Law students whose library in the Forrest
building is open for study in the evenings. But we do hope that

 

 

from now on the library at Studley will be open till six o’clock.

 

  

a ane - =

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

L’Adventure Du
Queteur

Un soir un quéteur de Meudon, village
des enviroas de Paris, retournait au couvent avec ce quil avait quété parmi les
paysans des environs. En _ traversant
une forét il fut arrété par un voleur, qui,
le pistolet a la main, lui demanda la
bourse ou la vie.

Le moine, aprés des protestations inutiles, vida sa bourse, et abandonna au
voleur une trentaine de francs qu’il avait
accurrulés avec grande peine pendant la
journée; puis il lui dit:

—Au moins vous exercez votre profession avec beaucoup d’humanité: faites
roi donc un plaisir; si je rcetourne sans
rien au couvent il est possible que je sois
soupconné par mes superieures d’avoir
caspillé ce que j'ai regu pour le couvent.
Pour que je puisse prouver que jai été
volé, déchargez votre pistolet dans -quelque partie de mon manteau: ainsi ils vcr
ront que je ne me suis pas rendu sans resistance.

—Bien volontiers, répondit poliment
le vo'eur, étendez un pan de votre manteau.

Sur le manteau étendu le voleur tira.
Alors le moine, ayant inspecté son vétement:

—Mais je ne vois pas, dit-il, par od est
passée la balle.

—C'est que, répondit le voleur, mon
pistolet n’était chargé qu’a poudre; Je
voulais seulement vous faire peur.

—Mais, s'il en est ainsi, dit le moine, ;
l’affaire n’est pas encore arrangée de telle
maniére que Je puisse m’excuser envers
mes supérieurs. Tirez doac l’autre.

—Impossible, je n’ai pas d’autre arme
que celle-ci.

A peine le voleur eut-il prononcé ces
mots que le moine, qui était grand et fort,

s’élanca sur lui, le saisit a la gorge, et,
l’ayant jeté a terre, avec violence, il lui
donna tant de coups qu’il le laissa la
comme mort. Puis le moine reprit avec
son argent, celui que le voleur avait sans
doute volé 4 d’autres personnes, et triomphant rentra au couvent.

7 O
ai)

Ui

15‘ per pkt.
29 for dD°

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

 

A freshman in the Amazon
Put nighties of his grammazon,
The reason’s that
He was too fat
To put his own pyjammazon.
“VARSITY.”

Manufactured }
Lmperial Tobacco Co of Canada, Limited.

    
  

March 11th, 1926

 

Kins of
CIGARETTES

 
   
    

 

The Social Side.

 

To every student there comes a moment when his Alma Mater
says to him, “I am giving you of my best and I should like you to do
There are things that must be done; it is for
And if they are wise they will come out

something in return.

you to go and do them.”
into public life, and by degrees and stages they will do their small

turn.

 

do it in this world at all—
shares in the Life of the University.

The work of the University—we mean of course, the social

work the purely non-studious side—is unexpectedly and unrecog‘nisedly hard, and in many cases perhaps the thanks and the returns

are far from being commensurate, but there is a sense of personal
satisfaction and repayment that is very delightful. It is worth it
unquestionably and after all it costs nothing; time, yes—energy,
yes—but balanced full measure by the gain in usefulness and in
comradeship. It does not stand to reason that a man will-make the
most of his classes just because he has these classes on the brain;
and he will leave no less creditable a reputation behind him if he has
devoted a few or many or most of his hours to doing something for
his fellow students. It is no fault to have more than one interest,
and it is no error to suppose that there are other developing factors
in the University course besides class lectures and the sitting for
exams. The social side of our student life entails not a little work
of us, which to some is no essential item of the curriculum; but it is

altogether an excellent thing to have done, and it repays itself later

in unlooked-for ways. And if it were not important and expedient
and predominant it would not be called, in colleges all over the world,
the Life of the University.

It is open to every man (and Co-Ed) who comes up to Dalhousie
to take it in whatever way he chooses. If he elect to regard it as an
institution put there for his benefit, from which it is his duty to extract all that is likely to do him good, there is no real fault to be
found: or if he look upon it as a place consecrated to study and to
nothing else, and act accordingly, he is in every way commendable.
But if he ‘comes to it on a principle of give-and-take, looking on it as
something it is his part to serve and help, finding it a place of many
aspects where we gather to meet one another and to grow from unformed youth to manhood and womanhood, and on these assumptions doing his share for it and his fellows:—if, we say, this is his
attitude and his ideal, he will in no wise be the loser. Years afterwards he or someone else will ask the obvious “Was it worth it?”
And there never was one yet who answered “No.”

 

I’m told there’s a fellow at King’s
Who sits on a staircase and sings
By way of a frolic
The most alcoholic
And unreproducible things.

_ TC 7

It is rumored that the reason the
students’ telephone was removed was

that too many Co-Eds were using it to
call up young men down town, and, in
fairness to the men of Dalhousie, the
Senatus had the phone taken out as the
only alternative to the establishment of a
Matrimonial Chair at the University.

President of the Students’ Council;
“Constant detection ia the past has
shaped my moral code.”

 

  

   
    

It is well to go slowly at first and not to try to serve on every
possible committee or to take a prominent part in everything right
away, but since we come to the University primarily to grow—it is
best done there and he who cannot do it in the University will never
every student should see to it that he

  

   

The Editor,

Dalhousie Gazette.

With reference to the article which
attempted to cover the last Glee Club
Show, I should like to make a few remarks for the enlightenment of the
writer, who, in speaking of the orchestra,
says it was ‘undoubtedly weak now and
then."’ I do not wish to take issue with
him on that score but rather to add that
it was undoubtedly weak throughout.

The following quotation hardly needs
comment:—in my opinion it speaks for
itself,—in fact the intricacy of it fairly
shrieks at one ‘‘—being in spots largely
Miss Ethel Daniels at the piano with
more or less one violin.”

Just here I would like to point out the
difficulty in presenting a creditable
orchestra for a show like the one in question. No effort was spared to get the
best scenery available, hours (and dollars)
Were spent getting the proper stage
lighting effects worked out—the costumes were beautiful—but the orchestrall!!l! What a misfit! and yet Mr.
-ditor, of all those who conclude with,
“but the Orchestra!!!’"—how many, I
wonder, know that the orchestra had not,
for even one single number on the programme, a full orchestration,—that for
the most part there was not even a
violin score, and that the ‘‘more or less
one violin’ had to read from the pianc
accompaniment, picking out a _ part
when possible. I may say, in passing,
that the success of the show was in large
measure, due to the commendable work
of Miss Daniels at the piano. The other
members of the orchestra, had; of necessity, to pick out parts in the few numbers
of which we happened to have more than
one piano score. The ability to do this
rather reflects much credit on them,’ and
in my humble opinion, many professionals would have done much worse.

Just why erchestrations were not provided, lam unable to say. I have learned since the show was put on, that a sum
was allotted by the Glee Club Executive
to cover expenses. Orchestrations for
the various numbers would undoubtedly
have cost a considerable amount of
money, but for a show of such proportions sOme provision should have been
made for music. It could have been
hired, if not bought outright. I should
also like to mention that the lights provided for the orchestra were not all that
could be desired. While it it not my
intention to “‘pass the buck’’ I do not
feel that reflection on the orchestra is
well deserved, or should pass unnoticed.

Sincerely,

_. J. C. THURROTT.
Continued on page 3.

 
      

March 11th, 1926

tae
= Le

Pat.
: Dear Mr. Editor,—

ie - Since college opened last fall down to
m4 esent time we Freshmen have been
a subject of sevcre, and I think unfair,
criticism. We are called, fresh, bold,
cocky, disrespectful, and many more
things. We have been criticised severely
making ourselves too prominent. All
_ these things are due, according to our
_ senior, to the system of initiating employeathis year. While I recognize that som:

nee OF

   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
    
   
    
  
   
 
 

  

_ of these criticisms are well founded, |
— don’t agree with many of the points our
older students stress.
Mr. Louis Murphy points cut that we
are allowed too many privileges, and as a
result we are failing in our exams. It
must be remembered that only about ter
per cent. of all the students passed in
every subject and that class '29 only
forms a small fraction of the total enrotment. But putting aside that fact and
admitting that many first year students
failed, and some badly, it would be well
to look into the matter and see if their
_ college life has been responsible for these
failures. Take abcut ten or twenty of
the new students that provoke the most
criticism. Several of them did very well
and must therefore be put off the list.
Did the rest fail because they thought too
much about themselves and their enter tainment or was there another reason?
_ Undoubtedly many failures were due to
Jack of work, but an examination of thc
past history of the students in questior
will show that they never were very
_ prilliant and failed because of their lack
of ability.
—__~‘Mr. Murphy again points out that the
first year students are making themselves
too prominent in ccllege activities, This,
to my mind, is a point to be rejoiced at
rather than be looked down upon. Any
_ true Dalhousian should be glad to find
that the new students coming into the
- University are students with pep and
ones that take an interest in the activities, and do their share in carrying them
on to the best advantage. As regards
the statement that they are often put be_ fore seniors, it must be remembered that
_ the people in charge of the various or__ ganizations are men of from two to sever
__- years in the college and they would not
give the Freshmen privileges unless they
_ saw fit.
Great stress has been put on the subject of initiation. Many people arguc
that the old system was far superior, and
for proof they say ‘‘Look at the Freshmen this year.” I ccntend that the
_, “disrespect” of the Freshmen is not duc
to the new form of initiation. The system employed last year was humiliating,
‘thing that would certainly make a man
think. of himself than if he were de feated in a fair fight. How would the
_ Freshmen feel if they should win in a general scrap? This might be pcssible under exceptional circumstances. Under
the new system the success of the Sophmores is entirely in their own hands.
Neither method of initiation puts the
newcomers under proper control for the
gest of the year. If the Freshmen are to
be under the thumb o* the rest of the col- dese, se that when they are called on to de
some work, they will turn out in force, it
__ will only be accomplished by a complete
- understanding at the time cf repistration. The people whc recommend ‘‘the
_ gecd old fight” lose sight of the tact that
 Jast years initiation was only a break
from ‘‘what they ac in the States” and
that the ideal aimed at is when the Fresh~ men will entertain the whole city in the
manner which Professor Bell, Honorary
President of Class '28, outlined last year.
; Back to the subject of this years Fresh'menclass. We have been unfairly critiised for the results of the Christmas
_ Exams., and for taking an active interest
in student activities. While the appeal!
for a good fi ht is irresistable it does not
gain a strong hold on the Freshmen for
the rest of the year, and it does not keep
him from feeling too important. In
closing I might state that if the actions of
members of Class ’29 are not all that the
rest of the college expects, it is net because of any outside influence, but because the individuals themselves are of
that nature.

os

em

“e+

fl

\

hah cies

Sad

ia

      
  
  
     
 
  
   
 
 
   

Loa

 
 

Sincerely yours,

Fletcher Smith, ’29.

 

ALPHA BETA wei.t2t" var ‘won't you

learn the music from a Music Dealer's Text Book
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons

a Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
a, Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
ye Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums

Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos
EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

 

 

Harrison Fisher's, Maxfeld’s, Parish’s, ete
e WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY

Bs 2c per day
McDonald Music Co.
‘393 Barrington St. HALIFAX
i

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

English 9 Plays

PROLOGUE.

Ladies and Gentlemen, student and
learned sage,

When we with trembling knees approach
this stage

And see the world of critics stretched
before us,

Panic descends and does its best te floor
us,

For who are we that we should so abuse

you
By thinking that our folly may amuse
you?
Poor players we: the sum cf all our lore
But A. B. C. beside your wisdom’s store.
The little confidence we had is shaken,
We shudder at the task we've undertaken
And at this dreadful moment of our fate
We on would spare, you—but it is too
ate.
Let us be bold then! Let us do our best
And toa generous audience leave the rest,
Assured that you will judge us with a
kind eye,
And on our many failings turn a blind

eye.
ILE.
A One Act Play
by
' Eugene G. O’Neill.

 

W. B. ROSS.

David Keeney (Skipper of the

“Atlantic Queen”)..W. J. McCurdy.
Annie Keeney (Captain Keeney’s

WHEE Dir. scene Alison Fitz Randolph.
Tom Slocum (2nd mate). .C. J. Wickwire
PEMA CO WAEG ox s cess ass s H. S. Wilson.
Ben (the Cabin Boy)....E. M. MacLeod
Joe (the harpooner)....... H. B. Ross.

Class ’27 Party

““*Twas the best party in the history
of class '27,’’ so say the Jolly Juniors.
Despite the weather class ’27 cannot be
fooled out of a good time, when the rain
descended and the flood came, and the
streets lay bare and the sleighs remained
in their sheds.........the anticipated
sleigh drive did not materialize, but the
“dance”? went merrily on. Shortly
after eight o’clock, on Wednesday evening, the Juniors and their guests, arrived
at the home of Avis Marshall, 102 Oxford
Street. The upstairs rcoms were converted into sitting rooms and nearly the

 

QUALITY STREET (ACT I)
By
J.M Barrie.

Miss Susan Throssel..Harriet Roberts.
Miss Phoebe (sister to Miss

Saget eu 0 «= 2% Florence MacMullen.| whole space down stairs was used for
Miss Willoughby......Marion Robb.]Cancirg, except for cne little spot which
Miss Fanny (sister to Miss was occupied by Allan MacLean and his

Willoughby).......... Edith Hallet.|three piece orchestra. Allan is always
Miss Henrietta Turnbull...May Hines.|gocd but Wednesday evening he was
Patty, (the maid)...... Edith Macneill.| “even better’? and with his continuous
Mr. Valentine Brewn..... S. C. Gordon. | encors hz made the party “‘the grand suc
cess.’’ Class ’27 always specialize in refreshments and if it isn’t soup or salad or
sundies, it is oyster patties then coffee and
mocca cakes and macaroons and......
um-m

In addition to the hostess, Mrs. Marshall, Professors Gowanlock and Bell
were the henorary guests...... they apparently enjoyed the party as well as the
students.

And so the last class party for the

A Recruiting Sergeant..W. J. McCurdy.

WURZEL FLUMMERY.
A Comedy in One Act.
by
A. A. Milne.

Robert Crashaw. M. P.....H. B. Ross.

 

Margaret Crashaw (his ‘Jolly Juniors” is over, to find the key
wile) Ee aoa tm Elinor Barnstead. | to its success is difficult—some say music,
Viola Crashaw (his some say the home, some say the “eats,”
daughtor)..F. 1546.5. Dorothie Berry. |some say the outsiders, some say the inRichard Meriton, M. P..A. B. Thompson | formality, and, some say the billiards.
Denis Clifton...... J. L. L. Chisholm. | & veryone seems agreed, however, in saying, ‘‘’ Twas a wonderful party.”’
Mr. Gordon Graham re a demure
PRESS CUTTINGS. Senior: ““That type of woman should go
into a monastery.”
A Topical Sketch ;
by BOB JOHNSON’S
G. Bernard Shaw. TWO BOBBER SHOPS
General Hitchcock (of the First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

London War Office)..E. M. MacLeod.
Mr. Balsquith (Prime Minis
Majestic Theatre Building and

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.’
CEP Oh SAtAt occa see. Shire AcOLO0.. Don't NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

General’s Orderly...... C. J. Wickwire.

Mrs. Farrell

 

  
   
  
 
 

HIGH
CLASS

FAIRLY

H. C. HENDERSON

Lady Corinthia Fanshawe
(President of the AntiSuffraget League)... Freda

Mrs. Banger (Secretary of
the League)... ic sees us Rita

Winfield.

Morton. 57 Granville Street, - +» Cor. Sackville

 

(respectable
Irish Charwoman)..Molly Beresford. :

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

*“KELLYS”

FOR

CANES
‘The Speéialty Shop’’

116 118 GRANVILLE STREET

 
 

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

" “ALSO—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

 

Majestic Bldg.

 

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

AT EASTER

Flowers are appropriate but not
any more so than a lasting useful
gift selected at BIRKS.

She will think of you every time
she wears It.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS Ltd.
Barrington Street

i

DO NOT FORGET HER

 

The above debaters will meet Mt. Allison to-night at Sackville.
of the resolution ‘‘Resolved that an Imperial Council, with representsation from the
Dominions, should be established with full control over the foreign policy

|
|

The Seniors

On Saturday evening at Shirreff Hall,
the Seniors presented their last entertainment before Delta Gamma, tc an enthusiastic
covered itself with glory.
chestra composed of Rita Mortgn at the
piano, and Helen O'Connor and Jessie
MacIntyre, 2n violins, “rendered sweet
music”

Marjorie Mosher, Phyllis Hilton, Vera
Knox, Fileen Stephens and Jean Messen
Dunsany, with Jean MacRae, Mary Mac
Kay, Edith Hollett, Katherine Vickery
and Harriet Roberts.
understanding,” by A. A. Milne, with
Florence MacMullen, Jean
and Jessie MacKinnon in which “Tot”
MacLeod, Vance Freaser and Jack Lewis
figured prominently.
of the programme thz Juniors served d -li
 

 

Nova Scotia Nursery

 

MAJESTIC

SELECTED PHOTO PLAYS

EVENINGS 8 15 MAT.NEES 2 30

STRAND

 

tee y

Page Three

 

S. H. BROWN. R. H. MacLEOD.

Dalhousie upports the affirmative

of the British Empire.”

 

Freshie-Soph. Party

Who said a freshie-soph party wouldn’t
go over? Classes ’28 and '29 definitely
proved that such a party would go (in
spite of the criticisms of some seniors), by
putting on one Tuesday, Mar. 9, at the
Wocdcock Inn, Armdale. About 11
o'clock retreshments, in the form of ice
cream, cake and coffee, were served. As
only a limited number could be served at
once the refreshment dance was a long
one but no one seemed to mind very

Entertain

usual Class ’26
A small or
As

audience.

at the beginning and between

each number of the BIDS tA IOIIe « Three much. Joe Mills supplied the music and
short plays ea ably presented— Atl its pretty hard to beat Joe when he gets
Dead cf Night,’’ by A. A. Milne, with] soing, Everyone said it was the “best

party vet.”
“The Lost Silk Hat,’ by Lord

cious refreshments. Before dispersing
flash lights were taken of the Senior girls
present and of the various casts.

The next and last meeting of Delta
Gamma is to be held at the home of
President Mackenzie. and everybody is
looking forward to this occasion when
the Juniors will be in charge of the programme.

“A Slight Mis
Messenger

At the conclusion

 

Have you voted yet?

Sign the ballot below and dropitin the GAZETTE box. Your name is desired

merely to serve as a method of checking up the voters.

Do you favor the type of initiation employed at Dal
housie in 1925 as compared with an open conflict under safe
and suitable conditions?

YES

i a eae eet ae | Ee ae ee ark es Agee ee

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

 

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

 

 

CASINO

Ni XT WEEK

MON., TUES., WED
“FINE CLOTHES”

FROM THE STAGE PLAY
FASHIONS FOR MEN
- with
LEWIS STONE
PERC Y MARMONT
RAYMOND GRIFFITH
ALMA RUBENS

THUR., FRI., SAT.
SIMON THE JESTER

A WHOLESOME AND BEAUTIFUL STORY OF SOCIETY
AND CIRCUS LIFE IN
ENGLAND WITH

RESERVED SEATS
GRCHESTRA FLOOR
EVENINGS
TWO SHOWS DAILY

 

ALL NEXT WEEK
COLEEN MOORE

“IRENE”

THE WORLD’S GREATEST
FASHION SHOW

THEATRE
ALWAYS GOOD

MUSICAL REVUE EUGENE OBRIEN
VAUDVILLE and JAZZ HENRY B. WALTHALL

as a ERENT ee |

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

|| HALT FAX

re Basketball

 

*

DAL. 21%.
Clark and McDonald Star.

PINE HILL 28.

Dalhousie lost what will probably be
their last game of the season, to Pine
The Pine Hill team og 2)

al.
students, started off fast and finished the
first period with a 6 point lead (15-9).
The second was far closer Pine Hill coming

Hill 28-21.

ed of, with one or two exceptions,

-out on top by one pcint, bd. Brown

playing for Pine Hill was

ing responsible for many more
ant soca. For Dal., Bill Clark the
actor athlete and I. G. McDonalc were
the two best both, collecting 8 pcints
apiece. This defeat puts Fine Hill inte
second place with Dal. in a somewhat

doubtful third.

F Line up; Dal.—Clark 8, Hewat. 2,
MacDonald 8, Sperry 2, Jones 1. Pine
Hill—Richardson 7, Blenkinsop 1, Brown

12, Sullivan, Y. Frame 6, MacOntosh 2,
Ross, H. Frame.

 

Majestic Notes

 

“The Sea Wolf’ is still playing to
large and appreciative audiences at the
| In every way it has proved

Majestic.
to one of the best pictures of the
year, one which really should not be
missed.

It is rather distasteful to speak continually in superlatives but the feature
at the Majestic for next week undoubtedly deserves them too.

It is “Irene,” adapted from the mustcal comedy triumph which ran in New
York for two years. Colleen Moore appears in her greatest comedy success
with Lloyd Hughes as her leading man.
Charlie Murray.is there too. “‘Irene,
besides combining sparkling comedy and
genuine drama features the world’s
greatest fashion show—a veritable pageant of beautiful clothes and models. It
is said that there wasnot a beautitul

irl left in Hollyweod while “Irene’’ was
fine filmed.

Playing for a
Majestic.

full week—yes, at the

 

Filler

 

This were a simple bit of verse
About—nothing at all,

You'd scarce believe it’s caused a curse
From chastely lips to fall.

And yet when cne’s confronted

By such a werd as ‘“‘clam”

’Tis easiest, for sake of rhyme

To mildly whisper ‘‘Damn!”’

It’s given lots of trouble, too,

Because ‘twas not inspire

But merely writ to fill this space

Which blankly lay attired.

And now when nearly through I’m told
That ‘tis not verse sublime

Or even humble poetry

But merely dashed poor rhyme.

Do, gentle reader, | implore,

Before it is too late

That you should pass this swiftly o’er
And leave me to my fate.

There’s still a little gap left here

(Four lines to be exact)

So I'll scrawl off four more with cheer
And close the whcele with “tact.”

THE PROOF READER.

A Complete
] Musical Service

Everything that Students
require in Music, including
small instruments Of every
description. Sheet Music &
Music Books will be found

       
      
     
 

-PHINNEY’S Limited

  

    
   

by far the best

! the floor getting 12 points and
Reisu : that his

Dalhousie 21.
Y.M.C. A. 24

“Doc ’? Smith Stars.

After leading in the first period 11-9
Dal. went dewn to defeat at the hands of
the Y. M. C. A. 24-21 in the first cf the
home and home play-off series, at the Dal.

m, last Saturday night. There were
about a hundred and fifty spectators present, about half Dalhousians. Fora Dal.
home game this was a very poor turn out

and particularly for a championship
The attendance of the fair sex

game.
was particularly poor but as Delta

Gamma had a sing song meeting that
night it probably accounts for it. A
college organization cf such a large mem
bership should certainly think twice be
fore having a meeting on the night of a
Dal. game when so much was at stake,
particularly a home game when even the
slightest boost to the gate receipts 1s a
help to the team. The game from start
tc finish wasa whirlwind, both teams setting a furious pace which they nev-r let
up on for a minute. Art Brown, o!
Acadia, handled the game in excellent
style. In fact he 1s the most proficient
and painstaking referee that has been
seen in the city this year. It is fair to
say that he worked as hard as any man
on the floor with the result that what
might have been a very pugilistic game
was excepticnally clean considering the
pace and the anxiety of both tzams to
score. It was almcst impossible to follow the play consistently enough to be
able to’say just who had the margin of
play, but the “Y.” certainly seemed to
make their passes cleaner and always
passed to a man who managed, it is hard
to tell hew, to be unguarded for a mement. Winchcombe was by far the best
man playing, at least as far as points are
concerned, for he had an on night and
netted the ball almost at will from al!
over the floor. On the other hand Dal’s.
baskets were scored onthe most part by
“com.” which usually ended with “Doc.”
Smith trying a shot. Dal. didn’t ccllect
nearly the number of points from penalties that they should have, netting the
ball on only about half the free shots
awarded them. The next game will be
at the “Y.”’ next Saturday. Dal. will
enter this game with a three point disadvantage as the total score decides the
winner. The team as a whole worked
well but as yet haven’t mastered the
art of getting unguarded in order to receive a pass in the way that the “Y.”
team have. Nor do they control the ball
from centre enough, However let’s hope
they will win by more than three points
next Saturday and let's all go down and
watch them doit. Worsley was removed
for four personals towards the end of the
game and Hermann went on in his place.

Line up: Dal.—Langstroth 6, McLeod 2, “Doc.” Smith 11, McLennan 2, |
Joyle, “Ab.” Smith (Capt.), Moore, |
Jones. ‘“Y.”—Joudrey 2, Griddale 8,

Windhcombe 14, Loye, Thomas, Whitock, Moore, Worsley, Hermann.

|

 

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and Colleg. - ext Books
Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

For Distinctive Style and
(All-round Excellency

* Astoria’”’
SHOES

For Men

Stand out as the Leaders in
Canadian Footwear.

W. L. Tuttle

SHOE DEALER

Barrington St., Spring Garden Road.
and Dartmouth

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dal. 69. Kings 18

Marion Campbe!! Stars

Dal. won the second game of their interccllegiate series with Kings by defeating them 69-18 in an interesting match.
This victory gives Dal. the series by
110-29, The Dal. forwards controlled
the ball for the best part of the game,
which resulted in the King’s forwards
seldom handling the ball at all. When
they did however they mace the best ot
their opportunities and seldom wasted a
shct making nearly every one of them
count. The werk ct the Dal: guards
was for the most part very weak, they
showed lack of practise and were somewhat Iest on the small floor. The centers
were a little more useful than they were
in the last game against Kings. Miss
Thompson had the misfcrtune to sprain
her finger towarcs the end of the first
period necessitating Edwina Archibald
falling back to center and Alice Atherton
going on as forward. This change didn't
weaken the team to any extent but seemed to strengthen it somewhat. As in the
last game the first period was more even
as far as tte score was concerned than the
last one. Dal. led 31-12 at the end of the
first but in the second they scored 30
points while Kings were only able to collect 6. Marien Campbell was by far the
most outstanding player netting the ball
for 55 points. Alice Atherton and kdwina Archibald played both excellent
games as did also Mable Borden and M.
Thompscn. The two guards would
have showed up far better had they had
more practise. For Kings, K. Smith,
Alice Prowse and the twe guards were the
two forwards. K. Smith and M. Markham, and the jumping center Alice Prowse
were the best. Line up: Dal.—Campbbell 55, Atherton 6, Archibald 8, Borden,
Thompsen, Roberts, Barnstead, Freeman. Kings: Markham 4, Smith 14,
Prowse, Card, Dauphinee, Cavichi, Hebb
Dominey.

The University of Harvard has recently conferred the degree of Doctor of
Philosophy on Frofessor Ceorge i. Wilson, head of the department of History
at Dalhousie. The Gazerfe extends its
congratulations to Dr. Wilson.

WINNERS From The |

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LID.

 

 

 

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX

N. 5:

 

GET THE

Three Essentials

1.
2.

Pure Food and Candy

Prompt and Courteeus
Service

Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST.

3.

Geo. Alexander

$24.00

‘Suit or
Over Coat

to your measure. Best value

in Canada.

See the many advantages
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your
clothes,

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

SPORT NEWS <<

Dal Defeats

DAL. 21. M .A.12
Dalhousie’s Co-ed team won the second
game from Mt. A., 21-12, getting the
series by 87-25 last Saturday morning.
The game was a little late starting, some
of the Mounties having taken advantage
of the excellent ‘‘bobbers’’ in the city
were a little tardy in showing up for the
match. However the load removed by
the shears helped them remarkably in the
first period, for they forced Dal. to take
the small end of an 11-8 score. In the
second Dal. made up for their mistakes
in the beginning of the game and encouraged by the stern admonitions of Mr.
Stirling they almost blanked the Sackvillites. The game was fast throughout
being repleat with thrills, bumps and
tumbles and bringing to light some excellent ‘“‘com."’ work, good shcoting and
close guarding. Taking all in all the
hundred or more spectators witnessed one
of the best exhibitions of the indoor sport
seen here for a long while. The most
pleasing part of the encounter was the excellent work of Arthur McPhee, of Truro,
who handled the whistle. Never once
missing a misplay or a foul, he, in spite of
the many whistlings which unfortunately
are a necessary adjunct to such a game,
moved quickly but with such an impartial precision that it was almost as much
of a pleasure to watch him as to follow the
game. He is certainly the best referee
that has ever handled a girls’ basketball
game in this city for a long time. Though
as usual the lion’s share of the points goes
tc Marion Campbell yet it is Alice Atherton that Dal. has to thank for Saturday’s
victory. Coming on in place of Edwina

March 11th, 1926

 

Mt A. 21-12

Archibald about the middle of the first
period she played a very mediccre game,
but when the second period started so
did Alice. Feeding Marion in a most
unselfish manner and being able to control the ball better than her lighter companion she played the best game cn the
floor. The work of the two guards
Elinor Barnstead and Harriet Roberts
showed marked improvement over the
King’s game, and when it is considered
that Mt. A. didn’t score a point from the
flcor in the second period the efficient
work of this pair is very apparent.
Mable Borden, M. Thompson and Edwina Archibald, who relieved the latter
on the second period played very well.
Edwina appears to a far better advantage
at center than she did last week against
King’s and is certainly as good in that
position as Marjorie Thompson particularly in getting the ball at the jump.
Miss Trenholm, Margaret Smith and the
two guards, M. Fawcett and J. Morrison,
were the pick of Mt. A. W. Winters who
replaced Muriel Smith at forwara played
a fair game as did also Muriel Smith who
finally replaced M. Fawcett as a guard
when she was forced to withdraw because
of too many personal fouls.

Mt. A. was accompanied by their coach
Miss J. MacMillan, theirggym. instructress, Florence Westhaver and_ Jessie
Rippey who chaperoned the party.

Line up: Dal.—Campbell 15, Atherton 3, Archibald 3, Borden, Thompson,
Roberts, Barnstead, Freeman. Mt. A.Trenholm 10, Muriel Smith 2, Margarite
Smith, P. Lister, M. Fawcett, J. Morrison, M. Winters, K. Allen, B. Ross
Art McPhee, Referee.

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers 2 Potted Plants

We make up Funzrar Desians,
so Weppinc Bouquets. We
also do Taste Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the
. F. D. Florists. We can wire

Flowers to. all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents For

Society Brand Clothes

Correct Dress For Students

437 Barrington Street

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for °
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it,

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Contirttious Purifying
System which revives your
clothes,

*PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

 

Cable Address: ‘“*McINNES”

McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Souicirors &c.
ee ee ee

HALIFAX, N. S.
Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C. Macdonald, K. C
Stuart Jenks, K. C. FP. B. A. Chi
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. & Mackay

 

 

 

smart Ostend

FOR MEN

Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to keep up appearances.
These very men are the fellows you see
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords
and Spats.
OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Wallace Bros.

eet BARRINGTON ST. oO

 

 

   
 
   
   
   

The Dress Shop
The Hat Shop
The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail.

Jensen & Mills Co. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

  

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices.

Light Lunches and Ice Cream
ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

 

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harn Curtiine is sure

    
     
     
       
 

satisfy. Lapigs’ Hain Cuttine in all
styles; also Curmtinc, SHAMPooInNG and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

     

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

41 Sackville St.

    
 

Phone S 4780

    
 
 

If You Want to See Well
SeeW ALLACE

T. J. WALLACE
Optometrist & Optician Y. M. C. A. Bldg

 
  
    

When in Town

 

 

 

   
  

ee
i es Sl ee et 3.

a aay ey ana ae cane ee
