  

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

:
ii
Tidy

e
ennui

hi

TO

“ ~~

VOL. LXVIII NO. 3

  

  

ff UT

  

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 5th, 1925

   

      

(I,

  

Five Cents The Copy

 

Students Council Meets

 

The November meeting of the Council
was held in the Munro Room on Tuesday,
Noy. 3rd, President Morton in the chair.
After the adoption of the minutes of the
semi-annual meeting § | Godsoe
read the correspondence, which consisted
of a letter from the management of the
Casino Theatre aoe to make special
accommodations for the students to see
“The Freshman” which is to be played in
that theatre soon; and two letters from the
Senate, relating to the discipline of the
students.

Reports were made from the various
committees. Mr. Armstrong of the Rink
committee reported that megotiations
with the Carleton Club to have a joint
rink had not been included and that the
Club would present three proposals for the
opinion of the next meeting. It is believed that the proposal would mean the
transfer of the rink property from its
original home at Studley to the grounds
of the Carleton Club opposite the Forrest
Bldg. A committee appointed to look
into the matter of the union of Kings College and Dalhousie Athletic Societies, re
up with the Board of Governors at a
joint meeting.

Munro day, this year, was set for Tues.,
Nov. 10th, an application to this effect
was made. It is thought that advantage
of this holiday will be taken to have an
Intercollegiate Track Meet between Dalhousie and Kings.

The proposed trip of the Girls Ground
hockey team was deferred as was also a
verbal application for the Dental Dance
to hold this function at an early date
after Christmas.

The proposed amendment to the Constitution of the Council was moved by
Rod McLeod and the base number necessary for an amendment to the constitution being present, was passed unanimously. By this amendment it is proposed
to have a monthly audit of the books of
the Council and a report made on the
financial standing of the Council, the
auditors to be appointed from the Senior
Class in Commerce. Messrs. Jubien and
H. Morton of this class were appointed.
After which business the meeting adjourn
ported that the matter was to be taken' ed.

 

A Matter of Business

Birchard Hayes was evidently in a bad
humor. The gentle ripple of the sea was
r -music along the shore, dewdrops
were sparkling on every leaf; and the softness of the morning air was broken only
by the faint chirp of birds too lazy to sing;
the man alone was out of harmony as he
stood gazing moodily at the blue waves
of the Mediterranean that smiled so peacefully before him.

He was a famous: philatelist and had
come, at great inconvenience to himself,
all the way from New York to Ajaccio tc
“buy, steal or otherwise obtain,’’ as he
himself put it, a unique Black Mauritius
stamp which he had heard was in the possession of Prince Balesco, a Bulgarian
nobleman of great wealth and power but
not a collector of stamps. Less than two
hours ago to his great disappointment he
had found the Prince’s villa shut up and a
caretaker installed who, in answer to his
questions, shrugged her shoulders and
poured out a stream of patois of which he
understood not a word. So here he stood
in the morning sunshine frowning and
cursing the luck that had befallen him.

Suddenly his reverie was broken by a
musical voice beside him saying in French:
“You seek the Prince Balesco? Marthe
told me. lam his wife. You wish to see
him—to speak with him?”

Birchard Hayes looked up and saw a
woman se beautiful that his pulse quickened. Tall above the average with a
graceful yet full figure, a regularly cut
featured face with a — ae and
short crisp-curling golden hair, and wearing a gown his quick eye told him had
cost a fertune.

“A small matter of business, Madame,”
e replied, looking into the fair face beide him. :

 

_ She sat down upon one of the green
benches, and with a gracious gesture invited him to sit beside her, “And won’t
Monsieur tell me what this business is?”
she said smilingly.

_ “Well, Madame, to tell the truth 1 wish
to buy the Black Mauritius stamp that
the Prince owns and, | hear, cares nothing
fe Le ee you, 1 you care so much
for it?” “Ll must have it, Madame,” he
replied a little desperately.

“Must!” Then in kindly tone, “1
think that can be easily arranged; the
np belongs to me, not to the Prince,
1 shall tell you the terms on which it

   
  
  
     
    
   
     

 
 
       
   
  

  
      
 
 

   

y be yours.” She paused, staring
ht Er ont of her. #ie man waited,
ness Of her loveliness filling his

ats beyond the realm of

ae
Monsieur is dee imple service
g a box t phe Rasses s villa and

e lil S yo a ow;

masa

   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

   

is the box, and here, “she continued, producing from her handbag a tiny ebony
box, “here is the reward.”

He opened the tiny case and therein
saw a perfect specimen of the coveted
stamp. His face glowed with pleasure as
he kissed the small white hand that the
lady held out to him.’’ And now, au revoir Monsieur; we weigh anchor in halfan-hour so you see how 1 could not myself go with the box, it requires at least
an hour to go to the villa from here, and
the Prince had much to attend to; he is
here unknown to anyone but the Prefect.
Monsieur obliges us. Allez donc, there
can be no mistake, the library faces the
sea. Adieu.”

She disappeared in the darkness towards the house, leaving Hayes half fascinated, half afraid of he knew not what.
In a little cver an hour he reached the
villa and, pushing his way through a low
hedge he laid the small square box on the
window-sill of the room facing the sea,
and with a light heart retraced his steps
towards Ajaccio.

The shrill cry of a water seller the next
morning aroused him from a_ trcubled
slumber, and it was with a feeling almost
of foreboding that he descended to the
dining-room of the Hétel de France.

“Monsieur has not heard the news?”

asked the waiter as he set a steaming pot
of coffee before the American.

*“No,”’ said Hayes, ‘““whatnews:’’ ‘The
villa Balesco was blown to the ground
last night. Ah, those communists! Mon
dieu, what an escape for Monsieur le
Prince.”

“Escape!
Hayes.

“He was to have slept there last night,
and only changed his mind after dinner
at the Prefect’s and stayed with him instead cf going to the villa. His yacht
only called here for some papers he wanted, he had meant to sail again today.”

How? Why?” stammered

“And do they suspect anyone,” said
Hayes casually but with a loudly beating
heart. The waiter bent towards him
mysteriously. “‘Mademoiselle de Vlasovitch who once tried to shoot him in Sofia is suspected. She was staying at the
‘Grand,’ but though she was shadowed
from the hour of her arrival in Ajaccio
she never once went near the villa. She
is a great Revolutionary and beautiful
asanangel. However, she left on a yacht
before the destruction occurred, so she
is free of this at all events.”’

“And the caretaker?”
and the Princess?”

“The caretaker is the gardener’s wife
and does not sleep at the villa. What
Princess does Monsieur speak of?”

“The Princess Balesco.”

“The Prince is a bachelcr, Monsieur.
He has no wife.”

Birchard Hayes rose and strode out towards the beach Out of his pocket he
pulled the little ebony case and glanced
at the magnificent specimen that nestled

asked Hayes,

cosily there. A sigh came from his lips.

“If thine eye offend thee, pluck it out,”
he muttered. “Ah! little stamp, you were

all.|a murderer’s hire, you might have un
eet done all the work of Locarno,” and he

flung the box far out into the sea,
mechanically and

walked back with 2 pain at his heart, quite

Bron sey 22g, Jaen tloking

pain caused more by the
remembrance of a dark-eyed woman than

i

the | by the loss of the Black Mauritius.

Peete ee

oa {

   

SESE
$$ —————O_£_—_L_____————

Literary Competition.

 

In order to stimulate literary
endeavors at Dalhousie and in
an effort to improve the quality
of the material published in
this paper, the Gazette hereby
offers two prizes, one for prose
and one for verse, to be competed for by the students of the
University. The prizes will be
in the form of books, and the
winning manuscripts will also
receive a specially high rating
in the ‘“‘Literary D’’ contest. If
the entries are numerous and of
sufficiently high quality second
prizes will also be awarded.
These prizes are not intended to
serve as a pecuniary recompense
for the labors of the contestants, but rather as a slight but
lasting tribute to their accomplishments.

All contributions submitted
to the Gazette from now on
will be considered, although
purely literary articles will naturally be shown a preference.
If they are at all inclined, candidates are urged to write fiction, in either lyric or short
story form.

The contest will close on December 5th. Competitors are
requested to send in their manuscripts as soon as_ possible.
If of sufficient merit these will
be published and awarded point
towards the ‘‘Literary D.”’ Any
student may enter this contest,
sending in as many attempts
as he wishes.

The judges will be announced
at a later date.

Olim Cives Universitatis
Dalhousae 1914-1918.

 

We are not dead if you still love us
here:

Hence went we forth, and here our
journey ends

In this green campus that we held
so dear,

These gray familiar walls and student friends.

We gave our youth that Youth
might happy be,

We gave our hopes that Hope might
still remain,

Weeere our lives for Honor so that
she

Might proudly walk and all unsullied reign.

Our days were few, our lives so
small a thing,

For Death to garner and to tcss
away;

We hardly seem worth your remembering—

Yet we would ever in your memory
stay.

We would stay here. O! shut us
not away

With.our poor bo-!ies vanished as
the dew

At morn. O let us share your work
and play,

For this, this was the only world
we knew.

M. A. B.

Misconceptions

 

Love is but a fantasy

Feeding on the poet’s brain,
Flown has all felicity

From our world of woe and pain.

Man is merely plastic motion,
Moving more and more apart
From that quiet, sweet devotion
Which arises in the heart.

We are only butts of fate,

in tragic comedy,
Whence we pass beyond the gate
Where awaits Eternity.

We, oR,

| gaily around the Hall.

 

CLASS EVENTS

"28 CLASS PARTY

 

Class ’28 has always been proud of its
parties and it had no reason to be ashamed
of the first one cf the season, which was
held at Isabel Silver’s, in Dartmouth.

‘28 was glad to welcome its new members, the Freshie-Sophs, who turned out
in full force. The exciting ocean voyage
on the ferry was, for many, their first
trip to Dartmouth, and there was no need
for formal introductions when every one
was piled four deep in the busses.

Dr. Bell, honorary president of the
class met us for the first time and we
found him a splendid chaperone, doubtless
because his own college days are not far
behind him.

Mr. and Mrs. Silver with their wellknown hospitality placed their house at
our disposal. Keye’s orchestra furnished
such peppy music that it induced some
of the more venturesome to try the
Charleston. Excellent refreshments added to the enjoyment of the evening, and
our only regret was that the last boat for
Halifax left so early.

THE CLASS OF ’26 HOLD
THEATRE PARTY

 

On Tuesday, October the twentyseventh over seventy members of Class '26
attended the Majestic Theatre. The play
was Oliver Goldsmith’s delightful comedy,
“She Stoops to Conquer,” and was thoroughly enjoyed by all.

Following the performance ‘the Class
wended its way to the house of Dr. and
Mrs. D. J. McDonald, and of our genial
class president. After several enjoyable
dances a very tasty and satisfying lunch
was served. Several more dances were
had after which the party broke up, all
voting it a distinct success.

The class is deeply grateful to Dr. and
Mrs. McDonald and our president Ian
for their kind hospitality. Charles McKenzie, chairman of the Social Committee,
deserves credit for the way in which he
carried out all needful arrangements.
Johnny Thurott presided at the piano and
his excellent music added much to the
pleasure of the evening.

 

Subject for Imperial

Debate.

The subject of the Imperial Debate was
selected at a meeting of the executive of
the Debating Society held last week. The
topic for the forensic contest will be,
“That the Geneva Protocol is worthy
of the support of Great Britain and the
Dominions.” Dalhousie debates the negative.

 

Trial debates to choose members of
the different teams will be held in the
Munroe room Thanksgiving week. The
exact dates will be posted later. All those
intending to take part in these trials
should hand in their names immediately
to the secretary, Mr. Rod McLeod.

In the meanwhile the Debating Club
will hold its next meeting on Wed. evening, Nov. 4th. An open debate will be
staged on, ‘Resolved that Western civilization is becoming a degenerating influence to mankind.”

QO. D:

Hallowe’en at

Shirreff Hall

All Hallowe'en Eve was. celebrated
joyously by Delta Gamma en masse, at
Shirreff Hall.
the atmosphere of the Hall was atingle
with mystery. Dinner was eaten by dim
candle light, and sheeted ghosts presented
fortunes to the lucky (?) ones.

Between seven and eight the corridors
were wproarious as the masqueraders
made ready. Lipstick, eyebrow pencil
and safety-pins were in great demand,—
and skilfully applied.

Stunts of various kinds had been prepared in the main hall, and here everyone
bobbed merrily for apples and visited the
fortune-tellers to learn their fate. The
two mysterious ghosts who took part in
the revels finally revealed their identity as
—but it would be a pity to tell.

The Grand March Past of costumes was
a sight for sore eyes. Everything from a
demure White Sister, (also a Black one), to
a butterfly and a Jack O’ Lantern, paraded
When the assembly stood for the prize giving, one was reminded forcibly of fire drill the night before! Mrs. Jock Cameron, the guest
of honor, presented the first prize, a
handsome leather hand bag. lt was
awarded to “Aunt Eppie Hogg, the
Fattest Woman in Three Counties.” The
second prize was won by Harriet Roberts
in “The Pied Piper of Hamelin’’—complete with rats. “A Wash-out,’’ represented by two well-known Shirreff Hallites, deserves mention for originality.

The fire in the great fire-place having
been lighted, the girls gathered around to
hear a delightful Hallowe’en story told
by Miss Beresford. Coffee, brown bread
and doughnuts having been served, the
meeting ended with a short dance.

VOX.

During the past summer Professor C. L.
Bennet attended a course in Drama a}
Oxford given by the most outstanding
authorities in Bitar

  

Beginning at dinner time |

Of Games.

(With Apologies to Francis Bacon.)

 

It be well known that valor and activity
profiteth a man more than piety and religious meditation; for this cause let him
and his fellows with him, show proficiency
and skill in the field; and above all let
him indulge in healthy exercise when
young, for then the limbs and joints are
more supple and fit for running and jumping than in old age.

I would first say some words to those
who watch these games. The weather is
often-time cold and wet; therefore it is
expedient that the spectators be clad in a
variety of garments—coats and sweaters
being warm additions to the ordinary habiliments of daily life; of rubbers I treat not,
for they do trip up and hinder rather than
afford protection; but I would urge the
encasement of the lower limbs in boots
which, by their strength and size, should
suffice to keep out the wet. Clothes are
but impediments at all times, hindering
the walk and, when the wind bloweth,
flapping in the face or entwining themselves around both upper and lower extremities. And to these watchers I would
say, let not the applause be too loud or
long when their side has proved victorious
and let them not show unseemly hilarity
‘and want of sympathy if some extraordinary mishap occurreth, such as the prostration of one player on his opponent
| (an accident of frequent occurence, though
| how it cometh to pass no man can tell.)

Fain, too, would I offer advice to those
who take part in the game. When rain
prevaileth the condition of the sward becomes flexible and maketh some to prostrate themselves; in which case let them
bear it ever in mind that the spectators
have greater range of vision than their
fellow gamesters, and that many valuable
lessons in the art of graceful and genteel
prostration may be here applied.

Finally, to the Captain I would say:
Make not any one player to think too
much of his own play or of his importance
to the team; rather elect discriminately,
for this maketh those preferred grateful
and others officious. Again, and note
this well, choose well thy Referendaries,
|else thou mayest be led into paths thou
knowest not and into observance of rules
of which thou wert hitherto ignorant.

Ye fifteen valiant men whom the gods
have honored in election, be not puffed up
with unseemly arrogance at your position, remember that pride precedeth a
fall, be not confused or made to blush;
but rather be modest and humble when
those less fortunate press their congratulations upon ye.

And to all I say: Be not disheartened
if thy side prove not victorious; nay, rather let thy defeat be the cause of aspiration

 

 

to that superiority of play to which thy
opponents have atained.
Ham.

Recital at Pine Hill

On Tuesday evening Mr. Schofield
head of the vocal department of the
Halifax Conservatory of Music, gave a
recital at Pine Hill College.

Mr. Harry Dean acted as accompanist,
and his capable work at the piano added
greatly to the success of the songs.

The program was a repetition cf the
recital given a few weeks ago. He also
gave it at Shirreff Hall a week or so ago.

Mr. Schofield is the possessor of a fine
technique, and is a beautiful singer.

He has the hearty thanks of all who
had the pleasure of hearing him,

 

 
 

ii

a

_—

 

eee

 

Page Two

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

November 5, 1925

 

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”

(Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpuy, 26.

Associate Editors:
Mary A. BEREsSForD, 26.
Avis H. MarsHatt, 27.
Ronatpo Hayes, 26.
WARREN Pusticover, 26.

Financial Editer:

Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription, Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

 

Remembrance!

On Monday, November 8th, Dalhousians will celebrate Armistice Day—the seventh anniversary of the victorious termination of
the World War. We are looking forward to it as a holiday, a day on
which we will be free from such irksome things as lectures and studies.
In Flanders, seven years ago, Armistice Day was a holiday too, the
first one in four years. It was a day free from fighting and suffering,—
and death.

On Monday we will make happiness and pleasure our aim. Many
of us will leave the city and wend our way homeward. All will seek
some brief change of environment. Dalhousie will be deserted. This
is only as it should be. Many of us have worked hard and have
merited the rest. And surely there is not one amongst us who has
not already convinced himself that he is justified in receiving some
slight respite. So let us goand be happy. But could we not pause in
the midst of our amusement, pause just for a moment, and remember
that it is a Day of Thanksgiving, a festive of mingled joy and sadness?
Could we not reflect on the years past and on those who fought and
died, that we might live and learn, and even enjoy holidays, at Dalhousie? Surely we could consecrate one short and sacred moment
of our carefree time, for remembrance.

The Need of a Literary Society at Dalhousie.

It is rather disquieting news to circulate, is it not Dalhousians, that
we seem to find it impossible to keep alive and active a Literary Society? One naturally asks the question whether this is a symptom of
the educational trend of the times, or merely the result of special emphasis upon scientific and technical training in our college. It is well
known that interest in cultural and literary courses has greatly subsided and is rapidly passing away in many of the colleges and universities of the land. Fortunately for us at Dalhousie, a courageous
struggle is sustained to provide for our students the training that will
give them a taste for the best literature, and to fit them for a correct
and ready use of English, either as speakers or writers. Let us then
as students expend both physical and mental effort in support of this
quest for culture and idealism. We have at Dalhousie leaders in both
oratory and writing In maintaining the truth of this statement it is
only necessary to mention such a speaker as Prof. Henry F. Munroe,
and such writers as Drs. MacMechan, Nichols and Stewart.

Let us for a little while war against the practical—that is, something
that gives promise of putting us in a position to reap a rich harvest
of dollars. It is materialism that is putting the college literary society
out of commission. Who cares for the art of speaking and writing
when it counts so little in terms of dollars? There is a common complaint throughout the country that many graduates are woefully deficient in the use of English, and do not give the least evidence of appreciating what is best in literature and art. They enter college as
boors and they leave it as boors. They may have knowledge of many
things, but culture and refinement they have none. This may seem
to be a severe indictment; but the very fact self-respecting colleges
have found it necessary to use the pruning knife every year to cut off
many parasites and dead branches from the student scholastic tree,
shows that there is something radically wrong somewhere. Too many
students lack Purpose and Idealism, and underneath Bernard Shaw’s
rather startling denunciation of modern education there is certainly
a substratum of truth. We pride ourselves at Dalhousie, however,
on the fact that our graduates have won for themselves a place of
honor in the collegiate world. Let us then sustain this enviable record,
by forming a Literary Society, which will hold fast to the cultural
ideal of education and insist on a training that makes for a better appreciation of literature and art. We have our leaders, let us follow
them!

924.00

Suit or
Over Coat

to your measure.
in Canada.

 

  

66 FIT-U 99

Qvercoats and Suits
Sold in Halifax City

ONLY AT

Gordon I[snor’s
69 Gottingen St.

Best value

   

A Complete

Musical Service
INSTRUMENTS

$$$
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

A Full Line of the Best Classical,
Standard and Popular
NGS

PHINNEYS Limited

See the many advantages
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your

clothes.

‘Clayton & Sons
HALIFAX

 

  

From

 

 
   
    
    
        
   

Dalhousie Students

You can save considerable, and
dollars in some cases, by buying
college supplies at our store —
suc as

Bound Note Books
Loose Leaf Note Books Fountain Pens
Loose Leaf Refills Index Supplies
Drawing Paper Ete.

Frank M. O'Neill & Co. Ltd.

Commercial Stationers

152 GRANVILLE STREET

    
       
   

   

  

   

Pencils

        
      

 

 

 

Do not send out of
town for your class

PINS or RINGS

We can compete on quantity
TRY OUR SERVICE

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
HALIFAX

 

Bags

To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette. |

Dear Sir:—

Would you allow me through the col
umns of your valued paper to make some.
remarks concerning the Glee Club.

One of my earliest impressions at Dalhousie was one of surprise at the way
officers of the Glee Club were elected.
At the first election which 1 attended no
one seemed to know who the people were

and in one or two cases the people elected |

knew nothing of it until told of the fact
by friends.

Fortunately the officers elected this
year could hardly be better suited for the
positions they occupy. But the railroading way in which they were elected hardly
does credit to the thinking ability of college students. Few knew who the candidates were or in many cases didn’t care in

Class Jewellery
|
|
|

The Mail |

 

 

view of the dance to conclude the evening’s
entertainment. In spite of the fact that
this year the officers are satisfactory, a
more suitable method should be adopted
for the election of officers. Too often
this is left to some few members who rush
the nominations through.

Several freshmen expressed their amazement, and I must say disgust, at the way
in which the nominations were carried
out. It is hardly fair to the large number
who are interested in Glee Club matters
to have a few do all the deciding beforehand and then rush their nominees
through. Would it not be a good scheme
to have them elected somewhat like the
Students’ Council or have the present
slate of officers submit a list of names for
the ensuing term.

Then there is the matter of a Glee Club
show for this year. lf this is to be attempted it should be started without delay. Mr. J. Connolly has very kindly
consented to help and has a plan to
submit to the club. ln any case steps
should be taken to decide one way or the
other about a show for this year.

An excellent innovation was started at
the Ist meeting of the year when Dalhousie songs were sung. This could and
should be a regular part of each meeting.
The result would be better college spirit.
Glee Club should stand for all and everyone enjoys a good sing.

The writer was greatly pleased to note
that the piano solo was heard in comparative silence the other evening. As students of a university we have often been
negligent in matters of this nature. All
too often do students pay little or no attention to solos of this kind. We should
always remember that a number like
music of this kind and so not spoil it for
them by our noise.

Trusting 1 have not intruded too far
on your good nature and hoping these remarks will be taken kindly, being so given,

Yours sincerely,

Glee Club Member.

 

To the. Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

Sir:—

Will you allow me space to complain
of a matter that requires looking into.

Certain Professors have a rule that late
comers to a class shall be marked absent
and that no excuse for lateness will be
listened to. (This of course, is not a case
of exact truth on the part of the Professors in question since a man can’t be absent in body when he’s sitting in the classroom during the lecture, though so far as
the lecture goes he may be absent in
spirit.) Now the same Professors who
make this rule also go on lecturing after
the first bell rings and almost until the
second bell goes. Students have then to
make a dash for the next lecture-room
and since this is frequently in another
building they very often have to don outer
garments with which to face the inclement weather. They, naturally, in spite
of the utmost efforts of speed, arrive late
in. the next class and find themselves

eee ee

ae

 

 

15‘ per pkt.
29 for dd*

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

f BRS
Manufactured by

Lmnperial Tobacco Co of Canada, Limited.

King of”
CIGARETTES

 
 

 
   
  

 

marked absent. This is most unfair
since the classes are run on a compulsory
attendance system.

1 know 1 am voicing the opinion of a
large number of students when | ask that
something be done about it. Can the
Students’ Council exert any influence on |
these Professors, or if Professors make

with reasonable exertion—well, what about
a Students’ Strike?

| Sense

many indifferent contributions. I fear
that it is not so and that your readers,
many of whom are critical in the baser
of the term, are forgetful that
a paper cannot be read until it is written,
and that to write for student papers
is both the privilege and the duty of

| students.
rules that cannot be kept by the students |

What is required is a different attitude
towards the Gazette. “What can 1 dc
for it?” should be the question, and com| petition should raise the standard so

 

Ll am, etc.

Daily Hustler,

To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette. |

Dear Sir:

| high that acceptance becomes an honour,
The game of writing should be played for
|the game’s sake; not as a lark, or for
|reward, but as an opportunity to help
one’s community, and to achieve the only
real pleasure—the pleasure of doing. —

1 fear that you may have space for this

In the September number of the Dal-| letter; 1 hope that you never will again.

housie Alumni News, I wrote hard words
—but | think true ones—since the opin- |
ions were general—concerning the Gazette.
The frank and sensible letter of your |
correspondent ‘R,’ together with the tone
of your first number, move me to write
now to you and wish your paper a prosperous year. Friends of the college are
glad to see that you.realize that your
paper is read with interest,and, not only by
undergraduates, but by graduates, faculty,
governors and others; not only in Dal- |
housie but in the exchange offices of every |
Canadian university journal, and every- |
where that a Dalhousian may go. Since |
the paper carries the name of Dalhousie
to every great English speaking university, 1 am glad that my criticisms have |
been accepted in the spirit in which they
were offered—a spirit breathing solely
for the welfare and credit of the college.

1 am anxious to confirm from my own
sure knowledge, R’s statement that the
reform of the Gazette was well in hand
before my letter appeared in print. 1/
have very good reason to believe that
certain important faults in detail will this
year be removed, or at least confined
within the limits of excuse. But a paper
however immaculate, cannot maintain
itself upon an absence of typographical |
blemishes; nor, as you will soon discover, |
can it easily be written entirely by the
Editorial staff. College papers are often |
so produced; but the practice is unfair
to the Editors, and if ‘the students are
interested it is also unfair to them.

Less pugnaciously,
Your critic of the Alumni News.
Fd, Note. This letter was received

last week but was held over owing to lack
of space.

Books About Nova

Scotia

| Sagas of
| The Sea

Old Province
Tales

ee By nae

Archibald MacMechan

 

 

How large, Mr. Editor, is your official
mail? It should be big with contributions from students eager, as only students
can be (though now they seldom are)
to hug a unique opportunity to release
the ideas and emotions with which their
teeming minds are packed. YOUR chief
duty should be to sign rejection slips, and
choose the few best from some good and |

  

PALACE OF SWEETS

Try our Business Man,s Lunch

Fruit Confectionery and Lunches

Cor. Sackville

    
   
 

428 Barrington 
  

—_————_

 

 

 

  
 

STUDENTS

Consult

Lonsult SIGHT
H ° W. Cameron SPECIALIST

Cor. Sackville and Barrington Sts. Phone Sack. 2728 for Appointment

Guard YOUR SIGHT

 

    
 

 
     

       

__ A Message of Chinese Christians
___ in Peking to Fellow Christians
Abroad on the Shangai
a Incident

June 14, 1925.

On May 30, a number of unarmed
Chinese citizens were shot down by a
police foree commanded by a British
officer in the International Settlement of
Shanghai. As a consequence, the people
of our entire nation have united in deep
protest against that which seems to us to
fe an inhuman and arrogant deed. In the
midst of this nation-wide outburst of
indignation, we, Chinese Christians, assembled in a mass meeting at Peking on
June 14, 1925, believe it essential that we
should call to the attention of the world
some of the unjust conditions which are
the root causes of the present trouble in
China.

The political factors involved in the
case are foreign imperialism on the one
hand and the rising Chinese spirit of
nationalism on the other. Too often in
the past the foreign powers have treated
us as inferiors, they have been contemptuous of our civilization, and they have
repeatedly made inroads upon our national
sovereignty. In the face of this threatening imperialistic aggression and foreign
domination our nation has been fighting
to preserve its integrity, and now seeks
to repaiir its violated sovereignty. The
Shanghai incident is a concrete illustration
of the conflict between these two forces
operating in the Far East.

More specifivally we would like to point
out four important ways in which we
believe the Foreign Powers have violated
our sovereignty. Each of these is a
constant source of irritation and humiliation to the Chinese people with their
developing spirit of nationalism.

The first of these is the foreign concessions and settlements. These appear to
us as little foreign nations within the territory which legitimately belongs to China.
If London and New York city were under
the rule of Foreign Powers, England and
= America would have a situation parallel
to that which we suffer today. One of the

~~ fundamental causes of the Shanghai
- trouble rests in the fact that Shanghai is a
foreign concession governed by a Council
upon which the Chinese are not: even
‘ represented.

A second of these inequalities is found
in what is known as _ extraterritoriality
and consular jurisdiction. Through this
‘means residents in China, citizens of
foreign countries, ~holding such treaty
rights are exempt from Chinese judical
processes. For example, British, Japanese or Americans are not subject to the
laws and courts of China, but under extrality are only responsible to foreign
= courts. One of the difficulties in the
present Shanghai affair is that the police
who did the shooting are not amenable to
Chinese law, but will be tried, if at all,
under a foreign court.

A third violation of our sovereignty
resides in what is known as leased territory. Great Britain holds Weihaiwei,
France Kwangehouwan, and Port Arthur
and Dairen are held by Japan. These
leases, in addition to depriving us of some
of our best military and naval bases,
‘thereby weakening our national defence,
} also tend to involve us in purely foreign

‘struggles which are no concern of ours,
The battles fought at Port Arthur, Dairen
' and Kiaochow are examples of how these
leased territories bring foreign wars into
our country.

A fourth inequality is the limitation

‘placed upon Chinese tariff autonomy.

very sovereign state has full power to de
termine its own customs rates, but under

present arrangements China must secure

the unanimous consent of all the Treaty

Powers before her tariff schedules can be

altered. Under this agreement China is

deprived of the freedom to regulate her

own economic development. The objec
tions of one of the treaty Powers are

sufficient to hold up any change in cus
toms duties, no matter how strong the
‘case may be for such reform.

——,

These briefly summarized are four of
the most serious injustices under which
China stuffers because of the unequal
treaties. Need we point out that the
rising spirit of Chinese nationalism is
unalterably opposed to such acts of
foreign oppression? lt is this same spirit
‘of freedom and democracy which inspired the Chinese revolution which
succeeded in overthrowing the corrupt
autocratic Manchu regime, and which is
Jabouring’ under heavy difficulties to
develop a stable, democratic form of
government for our nation. It is this
‘growing national spirit which caused the
great rank and file of our people to protest
so vigorously against the unjust Shantung
rd at the Paris Peace Conference.

Inless we misread the history of other
‘countries, we believe that the present
“spirit which animates.China is akin to the

spirit which inspired the English people
in their struggle for Magna Charta, and
is also akin to the spirit that led to the
American Revolution for Independence.

  
   
    
   
      
  
   
 
  
 

t
=
.

 

  

have not

Rule,

‘ers in their dealings with us
exhibited the spirit of the’\Golden

 

 

ee ne

would have them do unto us.”
crowd of unarmed demonstrators at
Shanghai had been composed of American
or British people would they have been
thus ruthlessly shot down? We do not
believe so. Out of a long and painful
exp2rience we are forced to the conclusion
that many foreigners residing in China do
not look upon our people as equals. Too
often we are treated as inferiors whose
place in life is to serve the dominant white
race. We gladly recognize that not all
foreigners within our gates assume this
intolerant and arrogant manner, but far
too many of them de, and often this attitude of superiority is found among thcse
who come as the government representatives of foreign nations to our country.

Moreover, the unequal treaties above
enumerated represent the official position
of the Foreign Powers, vts-a-:ts, China
today. Such «flagrant violations of the
Golden Rule of our Christian religion
cause us to question how real is the control
of Christian principles over the national
conduct of Western nations who are maintaining a host of Christian missionaries
in China at the annual expense of many
millions of dollars. Much as we appreciate the individual expression of good
will and fraternity which we believe is the
inspiration of the missionary movement,
we must in all candor point out that unless
the Christian conscience of the West has
enough power to arouse its governments
to the need of an early revision cf these
unequal treaties, and to root out the attitude of superiority and unbrotherliness
that lies back of them, we see little positive
good in the future that Christian missionaries from the West can accomplish in
our land, which is smarting under the
humiliations the Foreign Powers place
upon her.

In putting these facts before you, we are
not at all blind to our own short-comings
and weaknesses.
sins as well as our national aspirations,
and for these individual and collective
sins we bow humbly before our God in
repentance. But it is an undeniable fact
that our earnest effort to improve the
conditions in China and to realize the
ideals of a true democracy can never make
real headway so long as these foreign
aggressions, political and economic, stand
in our way. They offer irresistible
temptation to the weaknesses of the wicked,
a serious obstruction to the efferts of the
good, and they are a constant source of
disturbance and worry to all.

We therefore earnestly hope and fervently pray that our Christian brothers in
the nations which are party to these viclations of our national sovereignty will join
with us in a Common effort to remove
these inequalities, so that Christianity
may have a favorable chance to develop
here, and to the end that the eternal
principles of equality, liberty and fraternity may yet triumph upon the earth.

The Canadian Student.

 

Cable Address: “‘McINNES"”

McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Soticirors &c.
—=—_—#———#{[=[=F__R[V[TVUV[_E=EEEEEEREwS "3

HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K. C. W.C. Macdonald, K. C
Stuart Jenks, K. C. FP, B. A. Chi

. Chipman
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. E. MacKay

Small
But Important

YOUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat

may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLLar
you wear—it is the one article of
dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
that confidence which comes from
good grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no well
man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,
which is so acceptable.

L 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry
85 West St.

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

SPECIAL. RATES TO STUDENTS

College Christmas Cards
e 18 Spring Garden Road _

>

lf the

We have our national |.

  
 
     
       
    
     
   
      
       
       

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Publishing this paper each week is
by no means a small undertaking,

and all will realize that it requires

a certain amount of work, and also
sacrifice, on the part of those who
undertake to see it through.

Especially should we recognize those
students who have tried to do their
share by contributing articles and
news stories to the Gazette.

is our advertisers who make this
publication possible. They are willing to take a chance on a proposition,
backed by the students of Dalhousie
University. It is therefore our duty
to see that their confidence is not mispiaced.

IN OTHER WORDS PATRONIZE
OUR ADVERTISERS.

 

    
 
   
 
   

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

S 428

   

 

Aside from this fact, however,

The Medical
Dance

The annual Medical dance has once
again become a matter of history. This
function held in the gymnasium on Monday Nov. 2nd, was probably one of the
most successful medical dances ever staged
and will no doubt remain one of the
most brilliant dances of the season.

The committee in charge should be
complimented for the splendid manner
in which the program was conducted.
From the Anlage, thru the flapping sound
and amoeboid movement to the final

(Continued on page 4 column #.)

Winters-Burns Ltd.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS FOR

 

Society Brand Clothes

 

Correct Dress For STUDENTS

437 Barrington Street

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices... $: 2's 33

Light Lunches and Ice Cream
ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

 

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

e+

 

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all

Floral Work

ee et ee

ae Lt a

 

Review Critic

‘The Ubyssey,”’ coming from the University of British Columbia at Vancouver,
is a worthy paper indeed. lt specializes
particularly in editorials of a high literary value, but devotes a portion of its
space to writings of a lighter nature and
the reports of athletics and other college
activities. lt is a paper which is well
filled with interesting and helpful articles
for the student and news of the day for the
outside reader. The University has but
lately moved into its new home at Point
Grey, and the Editorial Staff of the
Ubyssey, which numbers over fifty, has
enthusiastically portrayed the impressive
ceremonies which marked its official
opening. Many distinguished representatives of various organizations and institutions were present at the different assemblies. Interesting and inspiring addresses
were given on education and University
work in general; and honorary degrees
were conferred on seven of the most prominent men in the public eye today, among
them being Sir Arthur Currie, Principal
of McGill University. The student's
Player’s Club seems to be a wide-awake
and hard working society; one of the plays
which they are presenting is Anatole
France’s ‘The Man Who Married a
Dumb. Wife,’ which was so successfully
played by Dalhousians last year.

The University of Saskatchewan has
this year marked Oct. 20th as a red-letter
day in the University’s career, that being
the date of the first lecture given there in
the French language. No doubt they
hope that the precedent then set, will be
an incentive to continued effort in the
same direction. 1 wonder if the would-be
linguists at Dalhousie fully realize their
good fortune in having for the last few
years daily lectures in delightfully pure
and elegant Parisian French, which give
us an opportunity of finding out a little
of the culture of Paris—the intellectual
centre of France, a city where the pursuit
of knowledge is more followed than anywhere in the country. Also there is a
liberal sprinkling of very creditable
poetry in “The Sheaf,” and its editorials
are almost above reproach. To speak the

 

|truth, the college paper is certainly the

proper medium through which a student
should broadcast his message, if his
material be adjudged by the editor sufficiently pertinent to be published. Here
at Dalhousie, we uphold an independent

attitude on affairs both within and with- |

out our walls. The editorial policy of the
college paper,- must .of necessity change
annually; no part of its policy may be
guaranteed a persual for longer than a year
and by no means for that length if it
prove unacceptable to the Student Body.
This year we are attempting to use the
college paper as the proper vehicle for
Literary Expression, and, although we
are not trying to encourage “Intelligent
Bullies” or “Literary Snobs,” we are endeavoring to maintain a class of journalism
to which the Gazette has not aspired for
several years. Students should be interested in culture and literature in the
general sense, rather than in something
flamboyant, exaggerated and noisy. An
Arts course has for its purpose, not the
earning of a living, but the living of a life;
it teaches one to be discerning and comprehending, to separate the essential from
the non-essential, to make one fully appreciative of the beauties in the world and to
inculcate an attitude sufficiently philosophic to smooth over many of the uglinesses. Let this training, therefore, reflect
itself from the columns of the college paper

in articles of original conception contribu- |

ted by the students. There is no limit
to the range of material which may be
used as subject matter; nevertheless, that
the name Literary Expression may have
some definite meaning, student writers of
verse, plays, sketches, and “suchlike are
especially asked to submit contributions.
Surely one can, with patient and honest
endeavour, create ideas and symbols of
sufficient appeal and magnitude to be
helpful in furthering this estimable scheme.

A magazine worthy of considerable
praise is “The Collegian” put out by the
students of St. Mary’s College, Halifax,
with Mr. Eric O’Connor, well known to
many Dalhousians, as Editor-in-Chief,
Considering how few students attend St.
Mary’s in comparison with other colleges
which put out periodicals, we begin to
realize the merit of this publication. lt is
a well balanced magazine, the first page
being devoted to editorials, and the last
pages to Sports and college notes. On the
whole it is a sane, sound, practical college
issue. N.P

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and College Text Books

Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C Allen & Co.

7 2 AMAT Grohwille. Ste; °
HALIFAX

as

ew he a

 

 

Page Three

 

Majestic Notes

We hate to say “We told you so,” but
you must confess that all the wonderful
things we have written in the last two
issues were quite true.

The Glossop-Harris Company is excellent, but their time will soon be drawing
to a close. Take good advantage, then,
of their remaining performances!

The last part of this week Miss Harris
and her Company are presenting ‘‘The
Merchant of Venice.” This is probably
Shakespeare’s best known and most misunderstood work. At least it is misunderstood by many college students who have
studied it in their high school days and
seen it played time and time again at
school closings by ‘“‘talented’’ amateurs
who misinterpret it delightfully. ‘“The
Merchant of Venice’” as played by the
Glossop-Harris Company is a most delightful and pleasing comedy.

“The Rosary” will be staged for the
whole of the ensuing week. This is a
modern drama with a _ powerful, yet
touching theme. It isa story of a woman
whose youth has waned, and of a young
artist whom she loves. The plot is most
human and appealing and is of course
sympathetically interpreted by the company.

Don’t Envy a Good

Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procur
able on hand. Our Harr Curtine is sure
to satisfy. Lapres’ Harr Currtine in all
styles; also Curtinc, SHAMPOOING and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop,

Phone S 4780 41 Sackville St.

 

You know the rest of this

ALPHA BETA alphabet, but won't you

nae See cette souk a Music Dealer's Text Book.
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

' We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher's, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, etc.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY

2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

SPECIAL Bosppinc Partors
For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

   

Cleaning Clothes
Pressing Them is
_A Real Science

| Now

and |

    
       
     
           
     

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last modern

science for this purpose,

word i Th

shapes and presses your cloth
 

| Our VALETERIA SERVICE

       
         
   
       
 

ing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes.

“), ‘PHONE LORNE 1265

nt?
“Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

i ~ COUSINS

 
 

 

SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 

4

Dal. Team Going
To N. B.

Unless something unforseen happens
the Dalhousie fifteen will display their
wares both in St. John aind Fredericton
during the Thanksgiving holiday season
On Saturday, Novy. 7th, they are scheduled to meet the St. John Trojans and on
the following Monday they will journey
to Fredericton to meet U. N. B. on their
grid-iron.

Both the Trojans and U. N. B. are
superior teams and have a fine array of
victories to their credit. The former team
are selected from the most flourishing athletic organization in the foggy city, and
have met with only one reverse this year—
and this at the hands of U. N. B.. The
record of U. N. B. is well known—their
decisive defeat of the high-touted Mt.
Allison team and their more recent whitewash of Acadia have shown them to be
one of the most formidable aggregations
representing the N. B. wniversity for
many years. Their line has not yet been
crossed, while they have amassed a considerable number of points at the cost of
their opponents—certainly a fine record.
However, taking everything into consideration Dalhousie’s record is equally gccd
—and if the Boys are functioning as well as
they did in their recent game against
United Service then U. N. B. will have to
display a peerless game of rugby to defeat
them.

With the exception of perhaps Monte
Haslam who will be replaced by Fabie
Rockingham all of the regulars can make
the trip—they will be accompanied by
Mr. Stirling, coach “Angus L,” Mer.
Bissett and in all probability a few rooters.

 

Girls’ Sports

In spite of bad weather and the scarcity
of girls, ground hockey has been making
considerable progress and on November
thirteenth, when a team from the University of Maine will be arrayed against
Dalhousie, it is hoped that our co-eds will
be able to put up a good fight.

On Wednesday, Oct. 28th, a match was
played between Shirreff Hall and the town
girls. At the beginning of the game the
Hall players had the full eleven, while the
opposing team played only six. However before the contest was ended several

For Dalhousians

We have in stock a
very nice line of

English Earthenware

in Yellow and Black
with the Dalhousie
Crest thereon.
The line consists of

Teacups, Saucers, 3 Sizes
Pirates, CAKE PLATEs,
TEAPoTS, SUGAR AND
Cream Sets, Etc.

and is most moderately priced
COME IN AND SEE IT

BALDWIN & CO.

446 Barrington St.

Students, Please

   
 
   

i
,

1

oat ee of goods for GI
the best factories in many lines,

 

 

ach we carry a full stock of Pems and Pencils, including the pro| ducts of Waterman, Parker and Wahl Pens and Eversharps, and
. that we maintain a SERVICE STATION

accurate service on repairs and replacements. We also

SEEKE

COOLEY BROS.

395 BARRINGTON STREET

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dalhousie 20 United Service 0

Dalhousie 0

Under weather conditions ideal for the |

player but uncomfortable for the spectator, the Dalhousie Tigers repeated their
former victory over the Services fifteen at
the Wanderers’ grounds on Saturday.
While the score was one-sided, the game
was interesting, and although the football played was not of the best, there
were times when the losing team with
their good dribbling and _ persistence,
made threatening gestures towards the
Dal. line.

The Dalhousie three-quarter line, with
Murphy, Smith and Haslam starring, was
in spite of several fumbles the big factor
in the high score. The United team
missed good chances to score in the first
half when loose balls were picked up by
the Dal. back line at times and places
where an attack might have meant a
score. Features of this half which ended
9-0 were Haslam’s field goal, the good
tackling of the winning forwards, and Rex
Moore's stellar defence work. Moore
gained ground in a fashion that would
have done credit to a three-quarter.

For a short period after the interval,
Services pressed Dal. but were unable to
make their efforts shown in the score
column. For the remainder of the game
and particularly towards the end, the
Collegians had no serious impediments,
and went over for three more touches,
only one of which was in a position to be
sasily converted. . Harrington and Tupper

Wanderers 0

were aggressive in the forward line, an@
a sixty yard run by Haslam together with
a difficult tackle by Baird kept the oppo
sition score to the freezing point. Several
free kicks were given as the scrum men
were gaving difficulty in regulating their
feet to the referee’s desires; they were productive of no scoring.

The game was well handled by the
referee and was an example of clean play
that might be followed with advantage m
future games. The fans were few but
they saw a sporting team go down to an
honourable defeat which might have been
staved off to some extent by the presence
of more practised players. We hope that
the victors will continue their victories
until they are in the perch of champions
for 1925.

The Players were:

Dalhousie—Moore, Haslam, Murphy,
D, Smith, Wickwire, McInnes, Langstroth
A. Smith, Baird, McLean, Livingstone,

Cox, Tupper,. Harrington, Sutherland.
Services—Panet, Vokes, McDonald,
Timothy, DeWolfe, Gilhen, Thompson,

Snow, Mitchell, Bames, Monyer, Murray,
Johnson, Andrews, Hart.

In the. lntermediate game, Dalhousie
and Wanderers played to a scoreless tie
and incidentally set up a tie in the Junior
League Standing. The Tiger Cubs had
the edge in territory but were unable to
follow up this advantage.

 

town girls arrived. The result was two to
nothing for Shirreff Hall. Marie Eriksen played a good game as goal for the
winning team. This week matches are
being played with the Halifax Ladies’ College and Academy teams.

Basketball is again underway and there
is some very promising. material. for the
teams among the new girls.
has been received from the University of
Maine to play their team at Orono some
time at the beginning of the New Year.
The question as to the advisability of taking such a long trip is now under discusa in the Senate and the Students’ Council.

 

Professor C. H. Mercer has declared
himself over his signature to be in favor
of smoking in church.

Professor H. L. Stewart knows a few
new jokes,

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE

Optometrist & Optician Y. M. C. A. Bldg.

Freshmen and Freshettes

We have something very
SPECIAL to offer you for
onemonth. Get our prices
on group and individual

PHOTOGRAPHS
“CLIMO’’

For Distinctive Photographs
501 Barrington St. Phone S 1395

Take Notice-
  
         
     

where we give prompt

carry a
—the choicest products of
BUY HERE FOR CHRISTMAS.

Jewelers

 

 

A challenge |

 

 

The Leading
| Halifax Theatres

Direction J. F. O'CONNELL

MAJESTIC THEATRE

NOW PLAYING
English Repertory

GLOSSIP-HARRIS CO.

STRAND THEATRE

Musical Comedy

 

 

and Vaudeville

The Dress Shop
The Hat Shop
The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail.

Jensen & Mills Co. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

HEADQUARTERS FOR
Reach Sporting Goods

STAR AND AUTOMOBILE SKATES

HOCKEY SUPPLIES
HARDWARE AND RADIO SUPPLIES

Cragg Bros. Company

LIMITED
HARDWARE
The Cutlery House of Halifax

HALIFAX

|

 

 

1h
| day.

 

vs. Arts

Medicine

 

 

Medicine was defeated by Arts in an

interfaculty game on Tuesday 3-0. Grant
of Arts went over the line two minutes
before the game ended. Cutie Smith

failed to convert. It was a well played |
game of football, a better brand being
put up then in the first period of the
Jal-Acadia game. Territory was evenly
divided and it would be difficult to pick
individual stars. Both half lines made
some pretty runs. Lee Miller got away
several times Eut couldn’t get past Wood
who played a whale of a game at fullback for Medicine. Harold Baird handled the game in a first class manner.

 

The Medical Dance

(Continued from page 3 column 3.)

suture when all Insulin there was not a
dull moment. A slight pallor following
Cardiac Stimulation was relieved by administration of test meal.
On entering the hall through a path in a
spruce grove, the eye at once noticed the

absolute transformation from the usual
cold appearance of the building. The

dancing space being divided into two
parts by the spruce hedge down the middle of the floor presented a novel idea
by way of decoration and gave the gymn
a different appearance. Black and gold
were the predominant colors and streamers from the ever present skeleton, hang
to the far corners
side of the floor surrounded by an array
of colors, presented a unique appearance
and allowed much more space in the centre
of the floor to accommodate the large
crowd of dancers. Banners representing
practically every knownentity in_ the
University replaced the numerous s‘eletons of previous years as wall decorations
The lights dimmed with a blue tinge, cast
a twilight effect and lent that feeling of
romance so necessary and no doubt in
large measure, partially
for the complete success of the function.

The chaperones for the occasion were :—

Dr. and Mrs. John Cameron, Dr. and
Mrs. W. Alan Curry, Dr. and Mrs. H. B.
Atlee, Dr. and Mrs. O. §. Gibbs. Many
other members of the faculty were present
and’ all were enthusiastic in expressing a
good time. The medicals were present
in a body and every other faculty in the
University was well represented.

The music rendered by the ‘‘McLean
Orchestra” was all that could be desired

| Jardine, (A); 8rd, Allen, (5).

earl E a an : | (A); 2nd, Jardine, (A); 3rd,
ing in the centre of the building, radiated | ;

The orchestra at one |

 

responsit le |

 

~ . ' |
and finally in the “wee small hours” there |

were many regrets that another annual
Medical dance had passed from anticipation to complete realization.

So be it.

J. LM.

 

Thursday, Oct. 29th was a memorable

greater importance was the Engineers’
social function. This took the form of a
Theatre party, followed by a dance at
the Green Lantern. The society had reserved a block of seats in the Orpheus.

All were supposed to be there at 7.15, so by |

8.30 everyone had arrived with the excep
tion of one C. P. Roper who has not appeared as yet. The programme was a
good one and was enjoyed by all, except,
perhaps the followers of MacKenzie King.

After the show the Engineers with their
chosen damsels wended their way to the
Green Lantern where they danced and
feasted till dawn, more or less. Prof. and
Mrs. Copp and Prof. and Mrs. Theakston
chaperoned,

The gym class opened Tuesday, last.
The attendance good but there is room
for more. How about it, boys?

Our belated but hearty greetings to
Clive Curry who is again in our midst
after an absence of two years.

The society has obtained the services
of a great and fearless cheer leader in
Jack Horne. He has been known to
stand up in a crewded theatre and give
the Dal. yell unassisted:

Who says the Engineers aren’t athletes?
One of the smallest faculties in the University, they piled up twenty-one points
in the Inter-faculty Track Meet, winning
third place—“‘leave it to the Engineers.”’

Bob.

The man chosen to give an important
series of literary lectures at Harvard tast
spring was Dr. Archibald MacMechan.

 

First, it was election day, but of far

 

 

November 5, 1925

 

Results of Arts and

Science Track Meet
(Too Late For Last Week)

 

The Summary :—

100 yards dash (final)—lIst. Miller,
(C); 2nd, Matheson, (C); 3rd, Jardine,
(A). Time, 10 2-5.

One mile run—lst, Hussey, (E); 2nd,

Hebb, (L); 3rd, W. H. Godsoe, (D).
Time 5.15 2-5.
High jump—lst, Sperry (L);2nd,

Doull, (E); 3rd, Lowe, (E).
1 1-2 inches.

One mile walk—Ist, Bell, (E); 2nd,
Lowe, (E); 3rd, Atwood, (L). Time 9
O7 1-2.

440 yards dash—Ist, Miller, (E); 2nd,
Time, 56

Height, 5 ft.

3-5 secs.

Shot put—lst, Livingstone, (M); 2nd,
McNeil, (M); 3rd, Beaton, (E). Distance, 33 ft. 9 inches.

220 yards dash—lst, Matheson, (C);
2nd, Keating, (A), 3rd, Sperry, (L). Time
2 secs.

Hammer Throw—lst, McNeil, (M);
2nd, Livingstone, (M); 8rd, McCurdy,
(A). Distance, 67 ft. 9 1-2 inches.

880 yards run—lst, Hebb, (L): 2nd,
Grant, (A); 3rd, Godsoe, (D). Time,
2.20 2-5.

Running broad jump—lst, Jardine.
(A); 2nd, Keating, (A); 3rd, Doull (BE).
Distance, 18 ft. 3 1-2 inches.

Hop, step and jump—list, Keating,
Doull, (E).
Distance,37 ft.

Relay race—Ist, Commerce Grant,
Matheson, McColl and Miller); 2nd,
Axsts: Srd, Law. Time, 5.3 1-5.

Owing to the late hour it was decided to
cancel the pcle vault and kicking the fcotball.

George F. Power

|

     
        
   
   
   
    
 

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

 

    

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

——ALSO—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

  

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

 

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers ona Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicns,

also Weppinc Bovoguerts. We
also do Tasre Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
| Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR
STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY

SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

AT

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

Men’s GLOVES

of the better quality, “Dent’s,”
“Perrin’s,” “Acme” and other
standard makes. Leathers
which are SERVICEABLE,

Goop Firrtine, Stytisu.

$1.50 to $6.50

 

KELLYS

LIMITED
GRANVILLE STREET

 

 
