a ees 7
>*

son our forces.
"gallant General Achilles has been suffer
 

ei

A Few Pertinent Facts

Regarding the Dalhousie U. N. B. Game.

 

Dalhousie outplayed the University
of New Brunswick team, on their own

grounds.

The Tigers have a reputation
for clean playing. Nevertheless, U. N.
B. had eleven free Kicks against Dalhousie (eight in the last fifteen minutes)
who was, awarded uone. This seems
to indicate that the U. N. B. squad
was the eleventh superlative of  cleanliness but we know of no such word,

Three of these kicks were legimately
and successfully blocked by members of
the Dalhousie team, only to be re-awarded by the referee who ruled blocking not
permissible.

In the second ‘‘try"’ scored by U. N. B.
the ball had actually touched the ground
in front of the Dalhousie line and was
pushed over by a U. N. B. player. The
referee then uttered a whoop of exhultation and blew the whistle, signifying a try.

When the U. N. Beings were attempting to convert their second try the
ball was placed upon the ground. A
Dalhousie player rushed forward and
blocked the kick. At this point the U.
N. B. followers decided to give physical
as well as moral support and coming onto the field interfered with the Dalhousie
player. U, M. B. was then awarded
another convert resulting in the two
points which tied the score. The
referee used as his authority a 1922 rule
book.

The referee, wearing the U. N. B.
colors joined lustily with the U. N. B.
rooters after the game. A small point
itself, this indicates the attitude which
the judge of play held towards the Dalhousie team.

These are facts which defy contradiction.

 

Menon News In Kedar
Style. 1194 B. C.

King’ Menelaus and Queen Helen arrived today from Sparta on a short visit
and dined privately with the King and
Queen. Naot sea

An event of unusual importance is the
visit of Paris, one of the numerous sons of
King Priam of Troy. This charming
young prince has led a very retired life
and has only recently graduated from the
University of Mount Ida where he has
been studying aesthetics.

The visit of King Menelaus and Queen
Helen closed today. The King returns
to Sparta whither public duty calls him,
but we understand the queen will pay a
round of visits before returning home. _

Prince Priam also left the city this
morning, travelling strictly incognito.

 

31190 B. C.

* A most distressing misfortune has fallen
For some time past our

Despite

. discomfort this valiant leader stuck

ing severely from a sore heel.

ravely to his post, but the terrific strain
of the fighting in which this brillant
‘strategist has taken so liberal a share, has
proved too much for human endurance

-and with extreme reluctance Achilles

has (on the urgent advice of his physician)
had to yield to the inevitable and retire
temporarily from the scene of action.

_. A story of a colossal.nature has been
promulgated by the Trojan press to the

effect that there has been dissension

‘among our leaders and that General

‘Achilles has withdrawn his men from our

tanks. The truth is simply that the

+

patriotic clanspirit of the Myrmidons

“will. not permit.of their participation in

: Fe

the glories of conquest while their leader is laid aside by his misfortune.

1188 B.C.

It has long been felt that the strain of
governing Mycenae during the prolonged
absence of the King was telling upon
Queen Clytemnestra‘and.we feel that any
measure that can be taken to relieve the
heavy burden of responsibility which falls
on the queen in these trying times will
be welcomed by all patriotic citizens. It
is therefore with particular pleasure that
we annourice the decision of the queen to
entrust a share of the government to
King Aégisthens, a cousin of King Agamemnon, who has already been of the
utmost assistance to the queen in an unofficial capacity. The arrangement has
of course, been made with the full approval of the King; indeed we are betraying no secret.in saying that the initiation
for this movement came from our wise and
popular monarch himself. ©
1184 B. C.

It is with the deepest feelings of sorrow, which we know will be shared by
every home in Mycenae, that we refer
to the terrible tragedy announced in our
extra late edition last night, this last
tragedy in the long sum of ‘sad’ events
which has befallen the house of Atrens,
and our hearts go out in sympathy to the
bereaved Royal Family. The King, it
appears, was in his. usual. health ‘when
he arrived, though we learn he had ie
subject to fainting fits during the las
days of the campaign. His triumphant
return was naturally trying for him and
a In this excited state he most imprudently indulged in an overly hot bath
and the untimely résult“was that ‘a clot-of
Blood formed in the brain. All that-the

  
 

and King Aigisthens could do was. done.
ee Rees ith her a 3
e

ed a vein in

      
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
 
  
 
    
   
   
  
  
  
   
  

 
  
 
      
   
    
     
      

voted care of Queen Clytemnestra:’

        
  
  

| sound

close on a jarring note, but if the circumstantial rumours be true which ascribe
the King’s state of ‘excitement to certain
very ill-advised predictions on the part
of the captive Cassandra we trust that no
sentimentalist. considerations will prevent the full penalty from being executed.
B.

Newman Club

 

On Friday evening, Nov. 6, the Newman Club of Dalhousie held the first of

their entertainments for the current year’

in the form of a dance held in Columbus
Hall.. About fifty couples ‘were in attendance and enjoyed the selections played by the six-piece Elite Orchestra of
radio broadcasting fame. Much of the
success of-the dance was due to the capable manner in which the Social Committee performed its functions. Miss
Helen Wakeley, Miss Muriel Donahoe.
together with E. J. Therrault and L. F.
Murphy comprising this committee. Professor and Mrs. A. L. MacDonald made
ideal chaperones.

The Monster

A Fable.

 

There was once a fair city on the shores
of a vast sea. Sometimes it slept, in the
brooding hush of still, starlight nights;
often it laughed, from sheer joy of the
buoyant sea and the gay sunshine; again
it wept softly, with the tears of sad,
autumn trains. But always the city was
beautiful. And there dwelt there those
who loved the beauty of that city, and
gave their hearts toit. Day by day, year by
year, they ministers to it, and fostered it
with every care. And the beauty grew,
filling their hearts with joy.

But a shadow crept over those who
loved the city, for they feared a Monster,
They desired not the death of the Monster,
but that he should not destroy the beauty
that they had cherished. So they took
counsel and Said: ‘We’ will choose a
place, and build a den for the Monster;
we will build dwellings, and paths for his
servants, that they. may the more easily
obey his commands. Then surely he wiil
not ruin our city.’”’ So they built a den
for the Monster, and dwellings for his
servants, and strong, straight roads of
steel and iron.

Many days passed, and the Monster
did not come, neither had they any word
of him. And the city grew even more
beautiful under the care of those who had
given it their hearts. But one day there
came a man, and after him, others, who
looked at the city, seeing nothing of its
beauty; and they talked of the Monster
and his servants, and liked not the den
which had been prepared. They began
to build another road of steel and iron,
strong and straight as the first, but it cut
the face of the beauty like a livid scar.
And those who had given their hearts to
the city trembled, for they knew!

When their road was built, the men
who loved not beauty, nor saw it, went
away, mockingly, caring nothing for the
sorrow they had made. A silence of
mourning fell over the city, which lasted
a very long time. But the Monster
came not, and hope stirred in the hearts
of the sorrowing: The past became as
an evil dream, and only the long, straight
road of steel and iron remained, Jike a
scar-on the face of the beauty,  —

‘But one morning the city awoke to the
of hideous noise, and saw the
r, rearing his frowning head rom

Se ae eside th . yh
saw that they beh

   
     

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 12th, 1925

The Honoured Dead

No one has written at length on the
pillars of remembrance which Canada has
raised to her sons, who made a bulwark
of their bodies between her and harm.
No country has shown more generosity
or finer taste in its monuments than our
own. In little country places, even the
plain stones bearing the names of the unreturning brave are simple and sightly.
The finest of atl is the memorial tower
which joins Hart House with University
College. It is a stately pile. At one side
is a shallow loggia, the walls inscribed
with the names of the Toronto men who
died in France and Flanders. One end
wall bears the words of McCrae’s immortal rondeau. cut deep in the stone.
In June 1924 an old class of Varsity men
forgathered and sauntered about the old
familiar scenes. On the floor of the loggia
was a plain little laurel wreath with a
white card tied to it. One of the old
graduates had the curiosity to go close
enough to read the writing on the card.
It was in a woman’s hand; and the words
were, “I thank my God upon every remembrance of you.’’ So is our nation’s
life enriched by heroic death, and faith
and undying love.

Friday, the tenth of July last was a gray
day at St. Julien, but without rain—a
typical Low Countries sky. At eleven
o'clock, about the roadside monument to
the Canadian dead were standing or hovering a score or so of motor cars, filled with
sight-seeing tourists. From one car there
dismounted a woman who. walked to the
monument and up the steps. There she
faced about with her back to allwards
ascetic plinth. She was a tall woman,
dressed in black, a striking and conspicuous mourning figure. Then, without preface, or the slightest reference to her casual
audience, she began to sing the air which
grips the heart-strings of every Canadian
“OQ Canada, mon pays—’’ And she sang
passionately, with the understanding and
the heart. Apparently she obeyed some
deep impulse; she sang because she desired ardently to sing. It was a moving
song. Apparently, she was not Canadian,
but French. Who was the deep-hearted
unknown singer who loved Canada, and
honored our heroic dead?

 

 

Male Choir at
Dalhousie

 

A meeting is to be held the last of this
week to consider the forming of a male
chorus in Connection with the Glee Club.
Indications are that it will prove a success
as Dalhousie has many men who are interested in singing. The exact date of
the meeting will be announced later.
Several people interested in this matter
met. during the past week and plans were
made of a provisional nature. One student who has had several years’ experience in choir teaching has been asked to
take charge. It is hoped that a male
quartet may be formed or that failing that
a sextet or octet may be feasible.

CALYPSO

 

She watched the felling of the twenty trees;

She watched the sail made from her snowy
cloth;

But, more, she watched the one whose
cunning hand

Used these her gifts—her needle and her
axe,

Silent she watched, nor voiced again her
thoughts

Since she knew well Ulysses had no ears

But for one word—lIthaca! Ithaca!

And so he built his raft of straightest pines,

And stepped his sapling mast and raised
his sail

In haste to know the freedom of the waves,

Whose curling crests whitened the cliffs
of Greece.

But with slow steps and idle hands -hung
down—

With white, stil) face, and dry lips tightly drawn,

Across the meadows to her empty cave

Calypso camé.

Canora.

him, he smiled an evil smile of triumph,
So that beauty sickened and died, and
those who loved the city fled, brokenhearted, from that place.

‘The buoyant sea still smiles to the sunshine, and autumn weeps for the city,
but beauty is no longer there! 
ry We.

 

 

   
   

qe
Deter...

    

UCU TT AMINE

      

 

Five Cents The Copy

 

A Challenge

The Dalhousie Rugby Team hereby issues a challenge to the University

of New Brunswick for a return match this season.

Any date, any place, ex
cept Fredericton, and any honest referee will be quite satisfactory to the

Tigers.

Since it has been clearly shown that there are better rugby players

in the Maritimes than U. N. B. can produce and since the U. N. B. players
hope to battle for the MacTier Trophy as representatives of the Maritimes
it is confidently expected that, as sportsmen, they will accept this challenge.

 

Dalhousie Glee and
Dramatic Club

On November the fourth, the Gymn.
was again filled with an audience who
eagerly awaited the second feature program of the Glee Club. After a short
Sing Song, ably conducted by Gordon
Graham, the play of the evening, Mr.
Granville Barker’s ‘‘Rocco,’’ was _ presented, This play is primarily intended to be read, rather than acted, and thus
the players were seriously handicapped.
In spite of this, however, the play went
over well, and Mr. Scamels interpretation of the irascible owner of the Rococo
vase was undeniably clever. The remainder of the cast, the Misses Morton,
Beary, and MacMullen, and Messrs. Publicover and Zwicker, handled their difficult parts ably. The costuming was also
effective.

At the conclusion of the piece there was
a slight delay, due, apparently, to some
misunderstanding on the part of those
responsible for the orchestral numbers.
This was quite- forgotten, however, on
the appearance of a charming Pierrot and
Pierrette (Misses Kathleen Hagan and
Jean MacKenzie) who delighted their
audience by a gay and rhythmic little
number.

This concluded the program, and the
remainder of the evening was devoted to
our old friend, Ierpsichore. Harold Robertson and his talented assistants rendered-irresistably those tunes that go right
to our feet, and make us forget ali thought
of early classes on the morrow.

The Glee and Dramatic Club owes
much to its President, who is working
energetically to put the organization on a
new and better basis. It is a Glee and
Dramatic Club, and one element must
not be developed to the exclusion of the
other. Let us all get behind the Club,
Dalhousians, and work for it; it needs us,
even as we need it.

Books

In conversation with several classmates
the other day one mentioned the high
price students have to pay for text-books.
This envoked considerable discussion
as to what could be done to remedy the
matter and the final opinion of the group
was that the University should handle alt
sale of texts. A saving of 25% or more
could easily be made. The bookroom
conducted by several students has done
valued service in selling second hand
books. But why should students have to
pay more for second hand books than
they would for new books with the large
discount that many publishers give on
quantities?

Several professors have this year bought
books for their classes. In one case a
saving of $1.10: 0n one book was made and
in another $1.50 was saved on a $5.00
text.

Some colleges do handle the sale of
text-books: Couldn’t Dalhousie do likewise? It costs enough to attend Dalhousie without. paying exhorbitant prices
for books.

This is a matter that should prove of
interest to all students and it is hoped this

 

 

short note will provoke some discussion

leading to action.

Library Workin Canada

To the college girl-who is contemplating what line of work she shall take up
on graduation, there is no more interesting field open to the present time than
that of Library work. Those who have
not considered this vocation could gain
no adequate idea of it from a visit to any
Library in the Maritime provinces. One
must visit the different departments of
an large Library before an genuine understanding of the different phases of the
work can be acquired... To the girl
who wishes work with people there are
the Reference and Circulating Departments: where there is every opportunity
to use. such qualities as altrtness, helpfulness and industry. Again the girl
who is interested in children, but does

 

not wish the continual strain of teaching,
will find the work in the Childrens Department of the Library, most interesting
as well as productive of good results—
Lastly but not least in importance we
have the Cataloguing Department
where the books are made ready for distribution, i; e. classified according to subject, and catalogued.

Until recently anyone wishing to qualify as a Librarian has had to leave Canada
inorder todoso. This, however, is rapidly being changed. The Ontario Government have established an excellent short
course in Library training which is carried on in the Toronto Public Library,
for three months every year, beginning
in September. The attendance has increased each year and the plan is to establish a six months course, as soon as
possible. Ar the present time there are
in Ontario four hundred and twenty-five
libraries which many of th ,Librarians
have been trained in this school. The
Eastern provinces are also slowly but
surely awakening to the fact that the
Library is one of the most important
public institutions. There is every prospect that Library work in Canada has a
bright future before it. An appeal therefore is made to Canadian girls interested
in this work, to remain in their own
country and do their part towards establishing Public Libraries in every part
of ‘Canada,

Student’s Medical
Examination Report

(Revised Edition)

 

 

Note: All newcomers at Dalhousie
are required to fill out the Student’s
Medical Examination Report. We. publish below, for the benefit of those unfortunate people, the report and how it
should be filled out.

Family History: (Answer carefully as
this will be used as evidence against you)
The least said about my family history,
the better. Noted for strength. Grandfather once broke two iron bars in Dorchester Penitentiary.

1.—Ques. Do you smoke at home?
Ans. No. Only the kitchen stove
and dad have pipes.

2.—Ques. Did you play the ordinary
games at school?
Ans. I played bridge and auction
forty-five extensively.

3.—Did you ever leave school on account
of sickness?
Ans; Yes. At least
I told the teacher.

that’s what

4.—Ques. How were you found afterwards?
Ans. The teacher and dad com
pared information and found out I
hooked.
5.—Ques. What were the after effects?
Ans. I was so sore that I was unable to sit down for a week.
6.—Ques. How often did this occur?
Ans. I never suffered from after
effects again.
7.—Ques. Do you have to be careful
about what you eat?
Ans. Well, before going to a dance
I seldom eat onions or garlic.
8.—Ques. Do you suffer from
down periods?
Ans. No. I endeavour to suppress
my pedestrian tendencies.
9—Ques. Are you dumb?
Ans. ‘No, are you?
10.—Ques. Do you enjoy the walk to
Studley at9 A. M.?

Ans. Don't get funny,
11.—Ques. Do you suffer from Halitosis
(unpleasant breath.) | ot

Ans. “I, myself, rarely’ know when
I have Halitosis.. That's ‘the! insidious thing about it, and .even‘my

closest friends wont tell me.”’
12.—Ques. Have you ever had heart

trouble?

Ans. Yes—entirely local trouble.

She lives at Shirreff Hall.

Condition of Skin: Not ‘‘that

school-girl complexion’’ or the kind

“you love to: touch,” but its all I

ever had and I’m going to stick to

Tun

it.
Remarks: J ‘think this report is a da+<
‘nuisance, WH

—Kelly '29.

 
 

 

 

-of-a high order.

Page Two

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”

(Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpuy, 26.

Associate Editors:
Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
Avis H. MarsHatt, 27.
Ronatp Hayes, 26.
Warren Pusticover, 26.

Financial Editer:

Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

 

Our Versatile Society

“When asked to report the activities of the Glee Club in 1924-25
it was almost impossible to repress a smile.’’ That is the opening
sentence in the Glee and Dramatic Society report in the last Gazette
Graduation number. ‘The past year, (1923-'24), has been a very
successful one with the Dalhousie Glee Club.”’ This is how the corresponding article for the previous year commenced. The question
may well be asked as to just where the difference lay between the condition last year and the year before. In other words can we isolate
certain facts and explain the startling change that was apparent?
“No big show’’—‘‘disinterested executive”’ —“No pep’’—are the usual
replies. These may all be factors, but the amazing lack of all semblance of real interest by the student body is undoubtedly of much
more fundamental importance. The really essential difference is that
in one case the executive was willing to carry the University on its
back—much in the same way as the staff of the Gazette find it necessary to do so, and in the other case they were not. Perhaps, speak
ing from a more critical standpoint, the previous year was not very

much more successful than last year, only it looked so. The display
was immense. A performance at the Majestic and a trip to New Glasgow. The general public must have thought the student spirit to be
Only the few knew that it was solely the efforts of a
single individual that supplied the driving force for which the student
body received the credit.

All this is very vague, and it might be well to come to something
tangible: If there is a definite object for a Glee and Dramatic Society, then that object is obviously to stimulate Music and the Dramatic Art among those who are served by it. Let us look at the record
of last year. “But you mustn’t look at last year; it wasn’t an ordinary year’ is the usual comment. The fact remains, however, that it
was a year, and the Society is being judged by it at the present time.
And itis also a fact that right now Kings University, with an enrollment numbering less-than one.tenth that of Dalhousie, stands ten
times as high in the estimation of the interested public in a dramatic
way.

Let us return to the last Graduation Number again. ‘‘Promises of
a dance had brought out the Shirreff Hallities in force and their
brethren, were not lacking After a short but snappy program the meeting resolved itself into a dance and ended in the usual
happy manner’ Does dancing fall under the head of Glee or Drama? We think neither. The executive, then, have always frankly
found it necessary to use the dance as a bribe to persuade the students
to attend the entertainments. The business of coming to a meeting
one hour late has not been, and is not now, altogether unknown. Index number one of real student interest.

The general nature of the shows last year also forms an interesting
study. ““The famous Gold Dust Twins, Bud and Allie, were a feature
of the performance.’’ Was the show Glee or Drama? It has receivyed a name all its own, after its most clever exponents. And that name
is “Bud and Allie stuff.”” The other feature show was entitled ‘‘The
Dalhousie Inferno,’ changed by order of the Senate from its original
title “Go. to Hell.” “The entertainment given by the Devil for his
newly arrived guests gave an opportunity to introduce several very
clever special numbers.’’ Glee, or Drama?

One of two conclusions is necessary. Either somebody has failed
to look up the meaning of the words ‘‘Glee,”’ and ‘“‘Drama,”’ even in a
vest pocket dictionary; or else the Club has been decidedly wrongly
named. Perhaps the first suggestion for the present executive would
be to ask them to change either the nature of the performances or the
name of the Club.

The season is somewhat young to make predictions, but the indications point to somewhat better things Two very obvious remarks
are suggested by the entertainments to date. Perhaps the more important is that it would be building on surer foundations for the permanent success of the Club, to have a program thoroughly rehearsed
and in an acceptable form before presentation. The student body
would take a much keener interest in an entertainment well put on, a
week later, than a very ragged performance a week sooner. To be
very specific, we refer more particularly to the second entertainment
of the present season. The items were individually good, but there
was a rather remarkable lack of organization linking the units together. The second suggestion is that musical development should be
reduced to a systematic basis. Both programs to date have obviously
consisted of a dramatic frame work with a musical afterthought
tacked on to justify the ‘““Glee”’ part of the Club’s name.

_ The question of a Public Entertainment, at the Majestic or elsewhere, is a rather involved one. The desire to have a public display
is undoubtedly a paramount consideration in many minds. It is decidedly a matter for debate whether the display is of sufficient magnitude to warrant the incurring of really serious grievances by a number
of responsible citizens, and the bringing of the University into doubtful repute with many persons. And the time-consuming effort on
the. part of the students so shortly before examinations is possibly
not worthy of encouragement. Ifa system could be devised whereby
the labor of preparation could be distributed among the participants
it would indeed be a great advance.

Let us be not discouraged. The solution of the Glee and Dramatic
Club problems lies not in the past but in the future. And we may be

justified 1 in saying that there seems to be just the faintest glimmer of
a coming: dawn.

“ee ree . X x

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dalhousie Students

You can save considerable, and

dollars in some cases, by buying

college supplies at our store—
such as

Bound Note Books
Loose Leaf Note Books
Loose Leaf Refills

Pencils
Fountain Pens
Index Supplies

Drawing Paper Etc.

Frank M. O'Neill & Co. Ltd.

Commercial Stationers

152 GRANVILLE STREET

66 FIT-U 99

Overcoats and Suits
Sold in Halifax City

ONLY AT

Gordon Isnor’s
69 Gottingen St.

 

See eo

I When in Town | in lown

GET THE

Three Essentials

1. Pure Food and Candy

2. Prompt and Courteous
Service

Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST Geo. Alexander

al

 

 

 

 

15‘ per pkt.

25 for d9*

ALSO IN TINS OF .
50 for 70¢

 

Manufactured by
Jmperial Tobacco Co of Canada, Limited.

 

November 12, 1925

 

   
  
     

 

AS. WE WERE SAYING—

Being an Editorial from the Gateway,
Rotten Eg¢s!

Our initiation ceremonies
critics frequently point to the stolid old
follow.

We have always been led to believe that the undergraduates of

The University of Alberta publication.
Decayed Herring!

are often referred to as unrefined and vulgar. Our
Scottish universities as an example for us to

the old

country are of a-more-mature-and thoughtful type than ourselves, and that they
would never stoop to some of the vulgar or childish displays which horrify our Can
adian. public.

Before becoming fully convinced of the force of the comparison, however, we are
well advised to consider the press reports of the election of the Lord: Rector of Glas
gow University last week.

The Lord Rector is the student’s champion on the board of management.
and receives his high post as a result of a popular election

their mentor and guide;
jamongst the undetgrads.

Last week Austen Chamberlain,
in preference to G.
which makes us ‘‘Wild Westerners”’

A news report from Glasgow informs us that ‘‘:
substituted for rhetoric in the final campaign.
flour and decadent herring onto the campus.

brought truckloads of eggs,

the foreign secretary,
K. Chesterton and Sidney Webb.
feel that our sins are pure as snow.

He is

was chosen for the post
But the election was one

20,000 eggs of uncertain age were
Party leaders during the last night
At none

o'clock in the morning a pitched battle with malodorous missiles was opened and

continued for three hours
fered heavily in the battle.

the university buildings were dripping with rotten eggs,
It will take a corps of workers a week to restore the campus to its former

with filth.
degree of cleanliness.’’

Surely we need feel no shame for our rowdy,

the stately buildings of this seat of learning sufWhen truce was called,

the ancient walls. of
and the ground was strewn

but harmless, imitiation antics when

we read of such wanton and vulgar displays by the undergrads of dear old Glasgow.

The pub lic,
“gang spirit,

in considering our revekries, should bear in mind that thére is such
’ and that where red blood flows through youthful veins

the spirit will not expend itself in darning socks or paring spuds.

E thing as.a

 

From The Mail Bas

To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:—

In view of recent criticisms expressed in
your columns with regard to the hazing
of the Freshmen this year, I beg you to allow me space to explain the situation and
answer a few of the unjust words expressed therein.

Under the caption of ‘““The Old Order
Changeth,” the writer takes it upon himself to criticise the system used this year;
proposed and adopted by the Council of
students and indorsed by the Senate of
the University, and
future the old order, presumably of fighting, be reverted to. We are all entitled
to our own opinions, certainly, but in
matters of this kind, where the Council
takes a definite stand, it is advisable and
expected that the students stand behind
it and support it, espec ially when indorsed
by the Senate.

The change was brought about due
to the increasing number of personal injuries and other damage incurred under
the old system: the injuries in some cases
being broken bones and serious blows, the
effects of which often lasted for some
time and breeding personal prejudice and
enmities which lasted through out their
receptors’ college life. It was seen that
a new system was needed to supplant the
old and the proposal was made and several members of’ the: Council that the one

, of an organized iniatiotin be adopted.

 

to suggest that in|

 

[t is no reflection on the Sophomores

that they accepted this edict, as I may
say that they were only too eager’to resort to the old system of
refrained from doing so,
the initiation a trial. The experiment this
year, tomy knowledge wasa decided success
and I am sure the Freshmen will this year
take home a pleasant memory of their
initiation. They submitted in good
spirit to the various forms of punishment
inflicted on them and the Sophomores
and at the end of the ceremony all: joined
together in one large body and marched
through the city, making Halifax resound

with college yells and finally ending up at |

(Continued on page 3 Column: 1)
sina asienpeirneapiipeeciae einai a Heat

Imagine the teacher’s surprise, while
listening to a pupil repeat the twentythird psalm, upon hearing the following:

. ‘surely good Mrs, Murphy
shall follow-me all the days of my life.’
(Stanstead

College Magazine.)

fighting, but |
in order to give |

 

 

 

 

Books About Nova

oY

Scotia
Sagas of
The Sea

Old Province
Tales

By

Archibald MacMechan

Suit or
Over Coat

to your measure.
in Canada.

Best value

See the many advantages
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your
clothes.

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

 

 

 

  

STUDENTS Guard YOUR SIGHT

Consult | SIGHT
Seneeeent H. W. Cameron SPECIALIST
Cor. Sackville and Barrington Sts.

 
   

  

Phone Sack. 2728 for Appointment

 

  

 
 

BL.1005%702 100000.

FROM THE MAIL BAG

(Continued fram page 2 column 4.)

he Orpheus Theatre, where through the
kindness of Mr. Acker, the rest of the evening was spent. ‘The whole initiation was
eatried out in such good spirit, on both
sides that it is deplorable to think of resorting to the “Old Order’’ of fighting.
It only remains to improve on the system
in future years with more elatnate and
more vigorous forms of initiation and the
“old order’’ will soon be forgotten.

As for the Freshmen, I may safely say,
that they have not suffered by the change,
but through the confidence of having
firmly established their position in the
college have become a leading factor in
college life, and strong exponents of col
lege spirit.
Yours very truly,
A. R. RUSSELL,
Freshmen Representative.
Washington, D. C.,
. October 24-25.
i; ; To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette
i. Dear Ed.:
i As I told Mister Cook touring never
z harms them what takes it in moderation

and you know what it has did for Mister
by Cook yourself. Well it has far from done
} the same for me and on the acc’t of I
know how well worst the guy has to be
whats elected to become Editor of the
Gazette I thot you’d be capable to hand
me the low down on what I craves to
know.

Its like this Ed: last year I did considerable time at a large educational institution from the cotton belt an if I
didn’t glean much else I knows for a fact
that when ~isJuckless enuf to draw a

annescement of a dame's graduation
you is supposed to retaliate in the same
a terms as if it. said what poor sap she’ had
ay agreed to get his toast and coffee for bei ginning when and continuing till the
judge. gives the decision. You see Ed.,
you gotta say it in flowers and_ then
ee some. Now I heartily occur with the
A florist—its a touching way of expressing
your grief at losing a littie: schoolmate,
but its more than that on account of
besides the florist they’s the jeweller, the
furrier, the miiliner, the druggist and the
etcetia what all has to pay rent and help
and they stands to obtain a rake off everytime some weak sister scrapes thru her
finals. Usually the weaker. the sister the
heavier the fine on acc't of they being
more greatly endowed with people which
to send cards to.

Now what I wants to know is if this 1s
the same way as at Dalhousie on the
acc’t of I know too many janes in class
26 to make it profitable or even financially
possible to open the big square envelopes
when they commences to flock in so if the

i. same habits and conditions is in Nova
:. Scotia as they is in Louisianna I gotta
know soon so’s I can commence to restore
the leaking coffers before it gets time to
shell out. Don’t think I can. raise. the
necessary fund by spectating in Coral
Gables, Hollywood by-the-Sea or Boca
Raton seein’s how I only got 2% and 4&c
and then plot promoters wont consider
nothing what hasn't assumed the noble
‘= proporitions of 5 bucks the which I haven't

Saw sinse 1920 all at one sitting. They
_ seems to be enumeration in the hold-up
business but its getting so common here

and like I says to Cal you gotta be socareful what you go in for nowadays. So if
you got some good idees for rounding up
ae the rubles Ed. you'll be doing me a large

- ammount of assistance by slipping them
po co: me. ; f
_ Doubtless you is affronted with this
_ same problem. Thanking you in return
‘Se a giving this matter your scarce and
_ seanty attention,
>! Yours truly

‘: Wanta Know.

    
    
    
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  

% Apartm ent 32° . f
+2722 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.
_ Washington, D. C.

 

| the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

  
 

‘Mr: Editor: .
eee et year’s Gazettes there apd an editorial on the lack of College
it at pusie. It referred to a pic2 on the walls of the Gazette Room,
ing the Senate ttying to sweep back
yes of College spirit. with. a broom
te , titled’ Dalhousie’s Mrs.

om. The Editorial, invited com
- received none. Today there in

ferns

Spirit existing: is’ ~~

eh oe
S7002.5

Dalhousie than ever in her history. And

at whose feet can we lay the blame? At

Spirit,
blame.

Five years ago the football games were
far better attended than they are today
and there were then not nearly as many
students enrolled, At the final DalWanderers game in 1921, the stands were
absolutely packed. Medicine was then
enbloc and Law and Arts and last but by
no means the least the Marlborcugh girls.
They were in a sotid block to every game
and yelling louder than anybody. And
the same with hockey. No reserved seats
or team tickets for them. Rush seats
like the rest of the college. They didn’t
wait to be asked and sulk at home if they
were’nt. They were there as early as the
boys to get their good seats and cheer
their team on. That was the Marlborough. Now how about Sherriff Hall.
Not since it was opened have the girls
appeared in public as the inmates of Dalhousie’s sole residence, which should be
for that reason the hotbed of College Patriotism and Spirit. Never have they
gone ‘‘Rush”’ to the hockey games. A
few are there, as I said before, on the
team’s tickets and in company with the
other sex, but never alone and ‘‘Rush.”’
They have a poor turnout at the Football
games. You seldom hear their yell. I
doubt, if they have any and that after
three years in Residence. The song
“My Girl’s a crackerjack”’ still lacks a
verse applicable to the Hall girls. There
is something wrong somewhere. Either
they are prouder, poorer or more hard
working than their sisters of three years
past, or they just dont take the interest
or the trouble, and I think that the latter
is nearest the truth. I fully expect all
sorts of replies imputing misrepresentations of fact, but dont waste your precious
time girls. The best argument and the
Surest sign that I am wrong, and I pray
that I am, is to go back to the old days.
Come to the games in a body: Dont wait
to be asked, in fact it is just as good to
refuse even if you are asked. There
would be nothing easier than to have a
section of the stands roped off if you
would only get thére early enough. And
while talking of getting to the game early.
Why can’t more do it? If a handful of
faithful ones are able, surely more can.
The Intermediate team plays to almost
empty stands, and late arrivals at a hockey game means you are separated from
your College mates, which prevents systematic rooting.

Last fortnight a picture of the ‘Arts
Faculty at a football game was printed.
During the past season,, and I have been
at every game, you could count the members of the-faculty present on the fingers
of one hand. Why cant some more of
them be there? And I say this with all
deference. Why dont we ever see .our
President at any of the games. At one
game this year the Faculty of Law was
there solid, there was three from Arts and
none from Medicine. And that was the
best turnout we have had this year. If
any of the members of any Faculty should
read this, they may take it as a gentle
hint to see next Saturday’s game. They
might be our classmates playing but they
are also your pupils. You should be as
proud of them in that capacity as we
are of them in the other.

Nowto get nearer home. Dalis playing for
two titles next Saturday, Intermediate
and. Senior. There are about 700 enrolled at Dal this year. If Dal was Acadia
or Mt. A. or St. F. X. 700 would be present. But being Dal should not prevent
more than a hundred or so from going.
Let as many as possibly can be there to
yell. If you want to yell for the Wander
ut we have only ourselves to

ers, go over on the other side of the field |

and if you dont want to yell or dont believe in it go over there too. You wiil
see the game just as well and you will
make room for somebody with a little
more College spirit. And lets see Sheriff
Hall there in a body. Pine Hill as well.
Tf you haven’t the price, borrow it or slip
inoverthe fence, but be there and be
there early. If you feel cold, yell and
that will warm you. up quick enough.
Lets see how much of the old. spirit is
still in the Tiger. A big turnout will help
our team. financially as well as morally
both of which they need. So now next
Saturday at 2 o'clock at the latest, let
everybody that possibly can be there.
President, Deans, Professors, Sheriff Hail,
Pine Hill, Kings Law, Arts, Meds, Dents,
and engineers Pharmacy as well: Let
the password be “Are you going to the
Game Saturday? I am” Is Dal going
to win? She’ll do her best. Lets back

her up. Qur team! Qur College!

Tandem ¥

e e : e
our own. The Senate might appear to}. Critical Review
be slowly but surely stamping out College

“The Student,” is a big magazine from
a big university, namely the University
of Edinburgh. Whether it be that foreign
students attending Edinburgh have made
their presence felt and been instrumental
in overruling racial traits we do not know,
but from first to last in ‘“The Student’”’
there is certainly no evidence of economy in thought, interesting material, or
size of the publication. It si in reality a

journal and critical review of university

life, containing poetry, editorials and reports of the university’s societies and
military camps, and appears to be on the
path of increasing prosperity. The October number of “The Student’ is particularly interesting to us as it contains
an article entitled “Edinburgh, Through
Canadian Eyes,’ by Miss Clara Murray,
a Dalhousie graduate in Arts ’24. In this
essay Miss Murray describes her impressions of a feur days stay at the city and
university of Edinburgh.

Perhaps a good many Dalhousians have
never heard of Stanstead College, but
they know about Dalhousie, and in their
review of Canadian Books, the first history of Canadian Literature to be mentioned is the “Headwaters of Canadian
Literature,” by Prof. MacMechan. In
speaking of this book they suggest, that
although it is essentially a pioneer treatise doing the rough work, it is valuable
in being one of the first connected records
of a literature which already has one hundred and fifty years of history behind it.
Along with Dr. MacMechan’s book they
have reviewed Dr. J. D. Logan's ‘“Highways of Canadian Literature,’’ in the
same light, but they mention that it is a
much more detailed study. They say:
“Both books should be in every
library.’’ For the benefit of those who
do fot know, let me explain that Stanstead
College is a busy High School, Business
and Musical College combined, having
in all about three hundred. students, and
situated in the ‘‘Switzerland of Canada,”’
namely Stanstead, Quebec. Its chief
aim is “character education,” and it puts
out a very creditable magazine. There
is not an inch of space wasted throughout the whole eighty-four pages of the
book, and interest is kept alive by excellent editorials, poetry, illustrations, reviews of books, music, sculpture, essays
on musical instruments, travels abroad,
jokes, a cross-word puzzle and _ interfaculty notes. Elsewhere in the Gazette
will be found gleanings from this admirable little magazine. ;

The Dalhousie ‘Handbook’ has again
made its appearance; to which we say
briefly and metaphorically, ‘‘Shake!” To
all those for whom this is the first term of
university life, we would say: ‘The
Handbook, if you will let it, will-give you
most of the necessary wrinkles about
Dalhousie.”” As for the book itself, let
us say, that barring a map-of the city it
compares very favourably with the issue
of former years. New features will, of
course, strike the eye of all old readers.
The demands of New Journalism are exacting, and it is incumbent on all editors
whatever their publication, to rack their
brains for new contents which are not
likely to pall on the sophisticated mind
of the regular reader. We. need only
point out a few differences. The cover
design is in appropriate Dalhousie colors,
and the lettering thereon is decipherable,
which is more than can be said of the
1923-24 issue. Two notable improvements are the insertion of explanations
regarding ‘‘D’s’’ and the Constitution of
the Council of the Students.

Buyer—‘‘Give me an ‘E’ violin string,
please.”

Clerk—(presenting the box) ‘‘Choose
it yourself, sir. I-haven't been ‘ere long
enough to tell the ’es from the shes.”’

(Stanstead College Magazine)

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four PRrReEssincs

$2.00.
Ungar’sCleaning & Dyeing
$428 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose. ed.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it,

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes.

   

 

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

 

triumphed once more.

most real lives are.

”

braid of the Red Dragoons.

of radiant happiness.

numbers, Monday they will

School for Scandal,’ and

opportunity.

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

 

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert s:rvice. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harr Cu1itnc is sure
to satisfy. Lapres’ Harr Cuitine in all
styles; also Curtinc, SHAMPOOING and
MAssaGInc.

Phone S 4780

 

One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

Cable Address: “‘McINNES”

HALIFAX, N. S.
Hector McInnes, K. C.

Stuart Jenks, K. C.

B. AwLovett: «. C- N. E. MacKay

learn the music from a
It starts like this:

EVERYTHING

2c per day

41 Sackville St. 393 Barrington St.

 

 

DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Majestic Notes

“The Story of the Rosary” is playing
the whole of this week at the Majestic
and the Glossop Harris Company have

“The Rosary” is a life story and its
sad and touching scenes are delightfully
blended with laughter and joy just as

The play is in four acts and ten scenes
and is most effectively staged and costumIt is permeated by the glamour and
clank of war, with the red coats and gold

Like the song which suggests the play,
“The Story of the Rosary”’strikes a note of
the deepest sincerity and ends in a burst

For the first three days of next week
the players are presenting three request

‘The Chinese Puzzle,”’ followed by ‘“‘The
. “Charley’s
Aunt.’’ The merits of these plays have
been ably displayed when they were presented before, and those who have not
seen them should not miss this second

McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Soricitors &c.
—_—_—__——_i i i i _ __ i EEE

W. C. Macdonald, K. €
F. B. A. Chipman

 

 

You k h f thi
ALPHA BETA lek. mut aes odie

usic Dealer's Text Book.

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

IN SHEET MUSIC

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, etc.

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR

FICTION LENDING SOCIETY

McDonald Music Co.

HALIFAX

 

Christmas Cards

Our specimen books of Christmas
Cards are now ready— It is getting
near Christmas and to insure
delivery of your cards we advise
you to make sure that your order
is placed at once.

Another thing to be remembered
is that some of our quantities are
limited, and cannot be duplicated.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS

LIMITED

HALIFAX

 

 

 
  

| clothes [ at the Colleges

 
   
   

SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 

Dalhousie vs. Edgehill
at Windsor

Saturday morning ing dawned bright and
fair, to the great relief of the Dalhousie
girls’ hockey team, whose match with
Edgehill was planned for that day. The
team, chaperoned by Mrs. Murray Macneill, motored to Edgehill, arriving at
about 2 o'clock. They were welcomed
by Miss Roechling, Miss Murray, Miss
McQueen and Phyllis Harris, the ‘captain
of the Edgehill team. The match was
played on the Kings Upper campus at
2

In the first half the teams were well
matched, and the ball went from one goal
line to the other. The forwards made
several long runs, but the backs were especially good and for a time there was no
score. Edgehill made the first goal, which
was lustily cheered by the spectators.
Then Dalhousie increased speed and
made one goal,—their only score of the
match. Edgehill then got another goal
and the first half ended 2-1.

The second half was faster than the
first, and although Dalhousie was near
the Edgehill goal more often than in the
first half, the forwards lacked combination. Edgehill scored two goals in this
period and the match ended with a score
of 4-1 in favour of Edgehill.

Although Dalhousie has~-several experienced players, including old Edgehill
and H. L. C. girls, the whole team shows
lack of training, being very much slower
than Edgehill. The Dalhousie tackling
is also weak and the forwards lack combination. Great praise has been heard
of the work of the Dalhousie goal keeper, Marie Eriskson, Since the Edgehill

match the team has been practicing hard,
in preparation for tomorrow's match with
the University of Maine team, last year’s
champions of New England. Edgehit: | §
is playing the Halifax Ladies’ Cotlege on
Saturday, Nov. 14.

The match was very satisfactorily
refereed by Miss McQueen, the Edgehill
coach, and after the match the Dalhousie
team was entertained at tea by Edgehill.
At about 4.30 they left for Halifax.

The thanks of the team and of the D.
G. A. C. are extended to those who so
generously drove the team to Windsor in
their cars,—Miss Jean Macdougall, Miss
Josephine Dresner, Mr. Fletcher Smith,
and Mr. Percy Lovett.

The following girls represented Dalhousie against Edgehill:

Forwards: Mabel Borden, B. Macdonald,
+. MacKenzie, Anne Clark,
M. Wood, E. Macneil,
(Manager.

Halfbacks: Ruth Elder, Helen Robertson
(Captain), ‘Anna Wilson.

Full backs: Helen Sexton, Keitie Holman,
Edwina Archibald.

Goal: Marie Erikson.
EDGEHILL.

Forwards: Frances Frith, Marie Wylie,
Phyliis Harris (Captain),
Florence Harris, Bridget
Duncan.

Half backs: Margaret Rehfuse, Margaret
Woolaver.

Full backs: Helen Oxley, Mary Wilde.

Goal: Phyllis Erikson.

Freshmen and Freshettes

We have something very
SPECIAL to offer you for
onemonth. Getour prices
on group and individual

PHOTOGRAPHS
“CLIMO’’

For Distinctive Photographs
501 Barrington St. Phone S 1395

 

Students, Please

 
 

  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Dalhousie vs. University of Maine

— on the —

DALHOUSIE FOOTBALL FIELD

FRIDAY,

ALL WELCOME

NOVEMBER 13, AT 1:30

ADMISSION FREE

N. B.—The University of Maine arrived on Wednesday, and were met

at the station by many Dalhousie students.

They will stay here till

Saturday morning, and on Friday night a dance will be held in ‘their

honour.

 

 

Report of U. N. B.|
Game

Dalhousie Overcomes U. N. B. Team.
But is Forced to Bow to U.N, B.
Referee in 8-8 contest.

 

 

U. N. B. held Dal to a tie, 8-8. on Saturday 7th at Fredericton, N. B. The
Dal Team outplayed its opponents in every point of the game in the first half,
and Kelly MacLean scored the first try
which Haslem converted. Fredéricton
reporters and supporters claim that Dal
tries were matters of luck. That is not
so—the Ist try was due to good following up on the part of the Dal Team, and
the second, also scored by MacLean
though not converted, was the result of
a nice bit of combination, the ball passing through five or six hands before
MacLean went over.

They also claim that Dal’s superiority
was due not to their own good play but
to U. N. B. being “Stage Struck’”’ or
some such thing. - They were ‘stage
struck’’ because they were so evidently
outplayed, and it shows their inferiority.
Their fast halfline could not get away because they were too weil marked.

But the most outstanding feature of the
game which was detrimental to good play
was the refereeing. The referee seemed
determined that U. N. B. should score.
He. knew absolutely nothing about the
game and when questioned on a point, he
referred to a. 1922 rule book.

Things went from bad to worse in the
second half, and even a couple of specta
 

 

tors interfered with a Dal player. It was
at this stage of the game that Steen and
Goodspeed both undoubtedly very fast
men, scored. Fraser converted one of the
tries. “These men would not have got
away, however, had not the Dal team been
bewildered by the turn of events, and by
trying to anticipate the next blunder of
the referee. They never knew when a

‘legitimate play would be rewarded with a

free kick.

The U. N. B. team, though fast and
pretty good all round, was greatly overrated, and the Dal. team is confident that,
on neutral ground and with a referee
(for the referee above mentioned should
not be honoured with the name) they
will leave no room for doubt as to the
champions of the Maritime Provinces.

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE

Optometrist & Optician Y. M.C. A. Bldg.

 

Take Notice-
that we carry a full stock of Pens and Pencils, including the pro
ducts of Waterman, Parker and

Wahl Pens and Eversharps, and

that we maintain a SERVICE STATION where we give prompt

and accurate service on re spate and replacements.

full stock of goods for GI
the best factories in many lines.

We also carry a

SEEKERS—the choicest products: of

BUY HERE FOR CHRISTMAS.

COOLEY BROS.

395

Jewelers

BARRINGTON STREET

Girls’ Field Hockey Match

|
|
|

 

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

 

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

ALSO

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

The Leading
Halifax Theatres

Direction J. F. O'CONNELL

MAJESTIC tHeatre

NOW PLAYING

English Repertory

GLOSSIP-HARRIS CO.

STRAND THEATRE

Musical Comedy
and Vaudeville

WINNERS From The

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you nn equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX

 

 

 

Tigers Defeat Saint
John Trojans

'Thirteen to Nothing Score Decides
Exhibition Battle.

The ‘‘Herald’’ reports the game as
follows)—

S' TOHN, Nov..®.—The Dalhousie
University football fifteen Ae ughed
its way to victory over the Trojans this
afternoon by’ a score of 13-0, clearly demonstrating their superiority at all stages
and in all departments of the game.

The contest resolved itself in the early
er largely into a dribbling match

 

through the ankle deep water that covered a large part of the field and the visiting
forwards were clearly better than the 1o| cals in this branch of the play. They kept
on the ball all the time and bunched so
well that the attempts of the locals to
| kick the bail back again were nearly all
blocked.

In the scrimmages
men were the better.

Neither team seemed able to handle the
wet and slippery ball make a few good
three-quarter line runs.

also the Dalhcusie

BUNKER MURPHY

The sympathy of the 400 spectators
was somewhat divided owing to the presence of “Bunker’’ Murphy, of Fairville,
well known ball player, on the Dalhousie
line-up. <A crowd of his friends drew him
over to the side Jines before the game and
had him teach them the ‘Dal’ yeli so
that they could cheer for him during the
game. Another St. John man, Coughlan,
was a substitute for the college and was
put in for the Trojans when Hollies was
injured. D. Smith and Cox scored in the

first half, Harrington converting the
second. Murphy scored in the second
period and Harrington converted.

Wanderers Tie
with Dalhousie

The Wanderers defeated the
Services, 14-3 in last
league fixture and by so doing are tied
with Dalhousie for first place. This
menas that next Saturday will see the
playoff in both the Senior and Intermediate leagues. Every loyal Dalhousian
should be there to cheer our teams on to
victory. Both games will be played at
the Wanderers Grounds. The teams are

United
Saturday's City

them up.

The Dalhousie players greatly appreciate the delightful manner in
which they were received by the
Trojans and the Saint John fans.
There was the very best of feeling between the two teams and the Tigers
|'wish te express their deepest gratitude for the cordial treatment they
received.

| College Songs and
Yells

FOOTBALL SONG.

 

 

l Our boys are on the football field,
They’ve gathered for the fray;
The College yell is in the air,
We've come to win the day.
We know the game of foot ball
And we'll show them how to play,
While we are shouting for Dalhousie.

Chorus:

Hurrah! Hurrah We'll push the ball
along

A kick, a shove, we push right through
the throng,

No team can stop our fellows in their
rushes fierce and strong,

While we are shouting for Dalhousie.

 

bo

Our players every one are made

Of heads and muscles tough;

The Combination always works,
Because they know their stuff.
They'll show the other fellows

That they’re not quite good enough,
While we are shouting for Dalhousie,

 

Just watch our quarter take the ball,
This time we'll see some fun;
The Wanders
Services are rattled
And we'll make another run.
Like lightening through the line we go
The victory is won,
While we are shouting for Dalhousie.

’

|

out to win and it is up to all of us to back |

Novembcr 12, 1925

 
 

Ground Hockey

 

Nov. £nd, the Dalhcusie

On Monday,
team showed its

girls ground hockey
cuperiority over the Halifax Academy
players by defeating them 2-0 on the
Studley Campus. The first half was
quick full of action, and fairly even but
during the second period the Academy
girls were not able to keep up with their
heavier opponents. Jack Grant refereed
the game very satisfactorily.

On Wednesday a practice match was
played between the Halifax Ladies College players and our own team. This
resulted in a victory of t-2 for Dalhousie.
Miss Ward the H. L. C. coach, refereed.

Don’t forget to turn out to the ground
hockey, match between the team from
the University cf Maine and the Dalhousie girls, to morrow’ Friday, Nov. 13th,
at one o'clock. Cur co-eds need your
support and encouragement. Come and
cheer the home team to victory.

BOB JOHN | BOB JOHNSON’S | S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

| First Class Service The Heme of the Stirgle
Majestic Theatre Building and

Cor. George ard Barrirgton Sts.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

    
   
    
 

A Rk Co ‘nuilete

|
Musical Service
, INSTRUMENTS

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

A Full Line of the Best Classical,
Standard and Popular
SONGS.

/PHINNEYS Limited |

 

 

SPORTS

** LIGHTNING - HITCH ”’
HOCKEY BOOTS

*L. B.”? BASKET-BALL
BOOTS

TEBBUT’S FOOT BALL
BOOTS, Etc., Etc.

 

Tuttle’s 3 Stores

 

||| Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
| THE HOME OF

‘|| Cut Flowers en@ Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Destens,
also Weppinc Bouquets. We
also do Taste Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the

F. Florists. e can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world,

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.

 

Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

Men’s GLOVES

of the better quality, “Dent’s,
“Perrin’s,” “Acme” and nial
standard makes. Leathers
which are SERVICEABLE,
Goop Firtine, Styuisn.

$1.50 to $6.50

KELLYS

LIMITED
GRANVILLE STREET

 

 

 

 
