  
 

ts,

= ae

*

*
i

But where

 

 

R. MUNN-MAY
Birmingham University

ABOVE are pictures of four of the Universi

  

«

PATENT: AAA

sm RS peterene

 

T. P. MacDONALD
Edinburgh University

ty students who are coming across the Atlantic to debate with representatives of Dalhousie University
The date of the debate is Saturday, January 16, at 8.15 P.M.

HALIFAX,

   

   

Courtesy HALIFAX HERALD

 

PAUL REED
University of London

A. H. E. MOLSON
Prest. of Oxford Union

 

Retrospect

 

The ait drifting through the open window was fresh and sweet’as an April dawn.
Yet it was September, and the great

_ western luminary seemed to hang susded as if a Divine Providence held it

yack with a benignant hand, to protect

man a little longer from the invading

shadows of night.

_._ Inthe great oak-panelled room, a small

     
  

¢ hours of a life. The golden shafts

ht gilded the black and white face,

ss clock opr eye away the
that the little clock was quite transred and appeared to herald the ap
proach of a glorious event—of some
splendid beginning rather than ending.

he shrunken face on the pillow was motionless. How could the efficient white
_capped nurse guess that Victor Ivanoff was

re-living the most vividly-tragic period
of all his career? Pictures, now confused, now crystal-clear, were floating
before the fast-failing mind.

Again it seemed that wonderful night
of long ago when Helga had promised to
marry him. Between the scenes, it was,
backstage in the old Garrick Theatre,
where they were playing ‘““The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray.’"’ How nonsensical the thought
that their romance could end thus! They
laughed over the sheer absurdity of the
notion. Yet Helga had clung to him and
whispered : ;

—"]T wish dear, that it was another
piece we were doing now, one with a happy
ending.”

Their marriage and honeymoon followed—then hard work on the new play.

Now it was that fateful day a year later
when he stood as if rooted to the threshhold of his room—stricken to the heart,
at sight of Helga in the arms of Emacs, the
playwright, and his friend. Friend! He
could have throttled him until his whole,
huge .form should go limp. Friend!
Fiend rather! He rememberd Kraely’s
muttered curse, Helga’s despairing —‘‘Oh,
I didn’t mean—Victor!’ Nauseated, he
turned and left them. Helga followed,
seeking to cling to his arm and explain
everything, but he shook her off. Outside, he hailed a taxi, ‘“Anywhere!’’ he
said to the man. His brain was reeling,
his very soul seemed drowning in the unfathonable seas of lost inusions, whi.e hate
and jealousy tortured his being. His
distraught mind formed crazy projects of
revenge, only to discard them for others.
He drove on and on.

That evening an eager audience awaited
the appearance of the great Ivanoff_as
‘Othello.’ Storms of applause greeted him
The play swept onwards to the climax.
Finally the curtain rose on the final act,
Othello entered to Desdemona, to a Desdemona goldenly fragile, and lovely as a
young moon, glimpsed through a cloud
veil of translucent silver. The more sensitive among the spectators sensed an
undercurrent of tension, and, noting the
mad gleam in the Moor’s eyes, and the
trembling passion of his voice, felt gripped
by a strange presentiment of evil.

“Yet she must die, else she’ll betray more
men ,

Othello proceeded to his ghastly task.
Desdemona grasped and struggled feebly.
It was the strength of the humming bird
pitted against the strength of the eagle.
A sudden wail—the curtain was rung
down—there was confusion. In the wings
they heard his stifled ‘‘My God, I have
killed her!”

She did not die, but her spirit was
crushed. Like a broken, timid thing,
she crept away from the stage and from
her. husband. Ivanoff never saw her
again. He heard vague rumors of South
America—again of Deauville, but he
never followed them up. If she ec uld
forgive, she would come again. Then
abruptly, the rumors ceased.

There followed a nervous breakdown,
and his retirement. But he. was forced
back to his work—lest remorse and lonliness should drive him mad, and impelled,
alas, by that creative urge, innate in the
creative artist. It was then, that, like
a mighty onrushing tide, his art swept
him on to the highest triumphs, until continents bowed before him. Yet his
heart ached with an intolerable lonliness,
His greatness mocked him; it was false
and shallow. These were the things that
no man knew. So he had endured.

The nurse wondered at the sudden gleam
in the tired eyes. He feebly strove to
raise himself, and Jooked towards the
distant hills with a great yearninge—

“Lam coming... Helga... wait...
forme, . .”’ It was the merest whisper.

The little clock, less bright now, quietly
ceased, as if weary of its own monotonous
tick, and the sun dipped beyond the
farthest ridge, leaving in its wake a
blinding glory of flame—the promise of a
golden dawn.

oo... LLL

TO A TIME-HONORED SPECIMEN OF WRIGLEY’S
: SPEARMINT

Farewell, my well beloved Wrigley’s chew,

Companion of my earthly pilgrimage,

M -post sentry and my life long
Friend

For many years we’ve ambled on together.
hen sorrows smote, I tossed thee to and

fro
As billows toss the harassed derelict;

Pleasure supreme; thou'st bounded like
a dancer

Between the ivory pillars of my mouth.

I go, there can’st thou not

Mr lr.
For, well beloved, I go to English IT.
’ . : Hy As: dD,

IN WINTER

Elate, exultant, vibrant, still,
A white birch tree upon a hill.

A slender, supple, graceful form,
Defying wind, and night and storm.

A thing that calls the passerby,
Clear shining ‘gainst a blue, blue sky.

A soul of poignant beauty, flaming
Through dark and winter, and reclaiming .

Souls lost through empty, sombre days
To worship God, in joyful ways. Te.

M. Ver L;

Mr. Farquar to Le Petit Pays Charmant

Relieve Walter Darby

 

It is regretted that owing to injuries
received in the recent railway accident
Mr. Darby, leader of the Dalhousie Debating Team will be unable to appear
Saturday night. Mr. Farquar has
been secured fo fill his place. Mr. Farquar entered Dalhousie this year as a
second year law student. He was enrolled at the college many years ago, when
he was a member of the debating team.
The Debating Society is indeed fortunate
to obtain the services of such an excellent
speaker at such short notice.

 

I know a land deep-hidden as a nest,

A quiet land outwith the worid’s unrest,
A wondrous land where dwells all mystery,
Whose borders touch the reaims of Faerie.
There no one marks the passing of the

years, ;
No laughter there is quenched by bitter
tears, :
There no wind-cry is heard, or sobbing
rain,

No hurt comes ever nigh, or grievous pain,
For o’er this land eternal peace doth brood,
No passion stirs in all the neighborhood.

What is the name you give this land so
fair?
What will you show me if I enter there?

The Land of Loving Hearts is all its name,

Strange things would be unfolded if you
came. ,

There you can see the silver dawning
cree

p C on t es t an t Ss f OT | When drowsy stars. and weary moonlight

Literary “D’’

FORE Sg! Fey C0 a oe 1314
Warren Publicover................ le

Prarriet Roberts... seek cess cues. 13
ge OS | 12/
SC WUC oie sac vs vps oes 8 s.s 11 $,
minor Barmmstead) Uo. pe. ek. 1017
Eligabeth Morton................. 1017,
Re eC) 101%
2 ES OS Se 9
Herbert Davidson... 0.5... 0c4-- Gl),
ME BOW «oie 55% 6 ek ana «v9 5 7Y,
Wor: Witte Wade ee Aa 7%
Pas VAGUEE rll |... Uden, tb od « sels. 6Y,
Pera) GrOdSOE.. jut toed. ok. dees 61/4
ie SEES a tin DA cee i asl 6 i)
RR AMOS ats oak ce ee wa as 5/4
RRL Y ISCTLY sce ot re ane wus oes 43/,
Aslison MacCurdy...,....-.....-.. 37/4
Prams RUSSeEL ied Bee ees. 3)
€hariotta JONSON a, 2444005055. «a5 3'/>
FRINGES GE TOSCR Ss occas cen “el « 3 aa, mpnrtesvenslc 3
Ite TO te a tas thas eu se 23/4
MY 30) ROSS Fe ee ge PR ee 23/4,
me. Ligcaumeiels s. .aie. 0 A ks . 21/
Bee CRishohi. .f Sai S siren. osaanw< are 2
ES MOTUS 4 de aig a deh tke ese » 2
PYEUS URIDIGTS . cet eve yt esa bm cur ns 2
pace “Wherry, . La) CPt a 2
4, Ho MacDonald's, i563 S2080). cin 2
Allison Fitz-Randolph............. 2
WAPAICCE NOTION 0 clan. 6:0:asess <buines hie.ols lly
We ACAD AIDIOE gO cs aug Zien eee. es LY,
RFORP CPUS WEIS ss te ek 1 i,
erene KOR eS 50: see iths awl lA
Weariel Donahue. oc istucins Bice ld cul 1
Carried from Dec. 17, 1924
a ESUOTIR nt. bib N eaue shell didatays, ore B%.3 10
TIRE ACLIORALGS & vic.» atte dla v:ncs.s bias 8
SE, Es MCE NOMEN: 5s Co pas cs oe 6
Pete POMP) ies oe anes te. 5
WA epi aes. atc es dd. 2 5
ay MR py ae Boe wore ceeare . elon 3
PROUCIES, EMOTE nn “sinha neo eling «0:80 whe fos 3
RMAET. DAE ATIRUS = cies ck « Cares ea 2
SM RR co a os io in My» St 3 ss 2
ERO E BTS 06554 ais ot eic < x.ctesr ys 2
PO MERR ye ge ES, | hl LP 2
Re A. ono Le es ot 2
Rr a ee ee id 1
Tere ea so wes 1
GAs oss ie). ee A! 1
ee RAGED acct ecwcauth o4 sod oe ates 1
Peveiverbarnst yo fete ea) 1

sleep,

And when the sun lays past his golden ball

You plainly see the twilight shadows fall,

And when thought-woven darkness hides
the view

To see the gentle stars come peeping
through.

And ever comes a music sweet and low

For there you hear the horns of Elfland
blow,

There you can hear the beils of Faerie ring,

And e’en the flutter of a fairy wing

And when the Wee Folk dance beneath
the moon

You hear the tinkling of their tiny shoon.

Where is this wondrous land, this blest
abode?

How do you reach it?
road?

Is it some land far o’er the mountains
dim ?
Across wide seas?
rim?

How far is the

Beyong the rainbow’s

Nay, but the road thereto is not so long,
You reach it in the singing of a song.

 

 

 

Se SS A EE — SS eee
. 2 — ; 7 ' os — —

al
——
7
4
—
and

Five Cents The Copy

Results of Christmas
Exams

.

 

_ The results of the Christmas examinations at Dalhousie were, as is always the

-| case, both pleasing and distracting. Pro
fessors and students alike feel that every
one, who wrote an examination, could have
gained more credit, but ; . However, those days in 1925 are past,and now
even the many and contradicting reports
of casualties are beginning to fade from
confused reality into ‘“‘bad dreams.”’ -For
the sake of rescuing those who have
almost lost faith in themselves and. Dalhousie, through exaggerated reports, and
for the benefit of those who think Christmas exams were alla successand Dalhousie
par excellence, we are publishing a fairly
accurate account, although very general,
of the results. In the Arts Faculty 205
students failed in one or two subjects,
107 failed in more than two subjects and
233 passed in all subjects. The ‘‘powers
that be” in Arts have been very reasonable
and just and they have given those 107
students every consideration, consequently by means of either dropping a class, or
by making additional marks in the spring
most of them are remaining with us. In
fact those who must depart can be more
than counted on the fingers of one hand.

Dean Read reports that the law students have done exceptionally well. this
year; the number of failures are very few
and the general standard is the highest of
the past six years. The ‘Dents,” although three students have been put on
probation, have shown very good results
also, only four out of the 2nd, 3rd and 45
years failing in any subject. In the
Medical school 33 students have failed
In one or two subjects, 5 have failed in
more than two subjects.

Commend or condemn this as you will!

Notable Distinction by
Dalhouie Graduate

 

One of the most noted Canadians in
the medical profession today is a recent
graduate of Dalhousie. This distinguished
doctor is W. J. McNally who is the first
Canadian to secure the diploma in
Laryngology and Otoelogy issued by
the Royal College of Surgeons, London.

Dr. MeNally is a graduate in Arts from
St. Francis Xavier University and a graduate in Medicine from Dalhousie. For a
time he was House Surgeon at the Halifax
Infirmary. Thus he is well known and has
many friends in the college and city. Dr.
McNally went to McGill where he took a
special course in Ear, Nose and Throat
work, and there while at the Royal Victoria Hospital he was under the instruction of Dr. Birkett, the celebrated Canadian specialist. He won there a research scholarship in experimental medicine and also a travelling ceholars hip
abroad.

In Urecht he studied under the famous
Dr. Magnus and from there he went to
London where he wrote the examinations
for the diploma. It is unusual for doctors
to write these examinations, which are
very severe in one session but Dr. MeNally took them all at once and his
success is therefore all the more> marked.
To win this Diploma issued by the Royal
College of Surgeons is a notable distinction and it is with pride that we number

Nor is this land of dream across the sea— | him'among the sons of Dalhousie.

| The distance is no more than you and me.
The steps are only three—so easy, dear, | McNally has won as a specialist, Professor
| Tait of McGill is to give an address cn Dr.
| MeNally’s work at a special convéntion
which meets next June at McGill.

A little Faith, a little Love, a Tear.
A little Faith to guide us on our way,
A little Love to help us when we stray,

To indicate the distinction which Dr.

‘There

A Tear shed for another: just these three | will be assembled all the sccieties of Ear,

Will lead you to the walls of Sympathy | Nose and Throat in America and

Which guard this country fair. Your
journey’s done

For now the Land of Loving Hearts is
won,

And Joy is at the gate to ope it wide

And you can enter in and there abide.

M. A. B.

 

COMPETITION EXTRAORDINARY.

To the person sending in the best
letter stating the reason why there is
not a telephone for the students at
Studley, the Gazette will present a
genuine, solid clay brick.

The Board of Governors and officials
of the business staff of the University
are specially invited to contribute.
Mr. Livingstone, champion hammerthrower of the University, has been
requested to make the presentation.

Dr.
McNally himself will give illustrations
and specimens of his work.

 

Dr. Robert Kenney

 

Dr. Robert Kenney, Medicine 1924,
now in England has passed the Primary
Examinations for a Fellowship of the
Royal College of Surgeons, England, and
will continue his studies for the finals ot
this degree. ¥I

 

The person signing himself **‘Anon,’”
who left a cartoon, ‘‘The Eleventh
Hour”’ in the Gazette box is requested
to communicate with the editor
of the Gazette.

 

 
 

 

Page Two

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

January 14. 1926

 

 

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”
(Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpuy, 26,

Associate Editors:

; Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
a Avis H. Marsuatt, 27.

. Ronatp Hayes, 26.
WarrEN -PuBLICOVER,
Jack Atrwoop

26.

f Financial Editor:
Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

The Rest of Dalhousie

 

Dalhousie has an excellent Science Building—far be it from the
Gazette to find fault there; and the same may be said for our Libraries,
Law School, Medical Buildings, Arts Building, and Dental School.
Our concern at present is for the rest of Dalhousie. Have you guessed
it? Why of course! The reference is to our Conservatory of Music;
and our Examination Centre: and our Dance Hall; and our Theatre;
and our Convocation Hall: and, last but not least, our Gymnasium.
It would seem as though this article should have a large scope, but
on the contrary the note is to be one of smallness; almost pettiness in

fact; and cheapness.

In every structure from a dog-kennel up there is a type of expense
that falls under the delightfully critical classification of ‘‘Incidentals.”’
It usually refers to the installation of fixtures, too small to merit
separate inclusion on a cost sheet. We wish here to refer to the more
noticeable gaps in the list of ‘‘Incidentals’” in our Gymnasium.

We are concerned primarily with matters of right and wrong.
It is not of fundamental interest either to ourselves or, we think, to the
undergraduate body as a whole, whether the Senate, Student Council,
or a bountiful Providence should provide the necessary “Incidentals.”
The practical point is that they are conspicuously lacking. One is
moved to admiration to see the way in which our physical director
manages to make everything move along so smoothly in spite of the
lack of even bare necessities in some directions.

During the recent examinations one of the students had the misfortune to be taken suddenly ill and lapsed into unconsciousness in
the Examination Centre. One of the professors hastened to get a
drink of water. ~-He was amazed to find that there is not, for general
use in the Gymnasium, any cup, glass, dipper, mug, or other drinking
receptacle. The observation may here be made, in parenthesis,
that there is no drinking fountain either. To return to the story,
the professor was finally obliged to use an old, dirty, ginger ale bottle
which he found lying around. The Dean of the Faculty of Medicine
conducts a course in Hygiene and Public Health. We should be glad
to publish his professional and personal opinion on this state of affairs.
The Gazette suggests that a Royal Commission be appointed to

look into the cost of a few glasses, or even mugs. Meanwhile, may

we be permitted to say that we should be overcome with gratitude
towards any member of the Alumnae who would present the University with a usable set of empty peanut butter jars.

While speaking of precautionary health measures, it is surprising
to find that there is no first aid kit of any kind for general use. Accidents or illness may occur at any time. Our physical director is
forced to do the best he can with ‘‘left overs” from the first aid equipment of the football and basketball teams. Such a kit, must, of
coutse, be kept in his office. Suppose someone was taken ill at a
University Dance. There is not a twelve year old Boy Scout in
Halifax who would go out.on a hike with as little first aid equipment
against eventualities as our Dance Hall possesses.

The chairs used in our Theatre are stored in an attic over the
stage. There are two doors to this attic; one of them is on each side of
the stage. It takes a ladder to reach each door and the chairs must be
hauled up with ropes or must be carried up the ladders. Breakages
are inevitable. If there were one door over the centre of the stage
the chairs could be handed up from the stage, time would be saved,
and many less breakages would occur. Such a door would be neither
costly nor unsightly.

Has anybody in the world ever heard of an Auditorium without
a telephone? Every Dalhousie student has anyway. Has anybody
ever before heard of a centre where some five hundred supposedly
sane men and women come daily for instruction, unprovided with any
means of communication with the outside world save that obtainable
by badgering and bluffing till one gets the use of an office phone on a
pretext, of the general magnitude of a death in the family, or a new
war. The Gazette wishes to announce an initial contribution of
thirteen cents (13c.) to a trust fund, the interest from which shall go
to provide a memorial. telephone in honor of the suffering students of
1925-’26 who died of eyestrain from over-studious observation of a
spot on the wall where a telephone used to be.

Our next suggestion is, we know, going to be received with loud
huzzas by the assembled multitude. The reason is that we have a
remedy to offer for the lacking “Incidental’’ that won't cost anybody a cent. When one undresses to take a shower one stands in one’s
bare feet on a concrete floor that is characterized by neither smoothness, cleanness nor warmness. It is not the most pleasant of sensations, for example, to undergo after a hard football game in the rain.
If the mats on which the invigilators stalk majestically to and fro
during examinations, were placed end to end they would not encircle
the world sixteen times, but they would provide something more
pleasant to stand on in the basement than concrete floors. Just now
there are boards on the basement floor to prevent skates being damaged. Bare feet are evidently of less importance. Skates would, of
course, damage the mats, but skating occupies less than two months
of the spring term and during the remainder of the year mats would
form a vast improvement over concrete.

———— eee
tee

LLL LLL LLL LLL CC CLC CC CC TT
$$$

The Colour Blue

Is it not strange that Nature, so fond
of using her blue pigments in other ways,
is Slow to waste them upon her most
perfect handiwork, ‘the flowers? She
lavishes her blue and squanders it with
the most incontinent profusion on her two
great fields of colour, the sky and the
sea. But she is singularly economic in
its use in the forest, the field, or the flower-garden. At least she uses it only on
her tiniest creations—violets, or pansies,
or forget-me-nots. These last indeed,
are the only really blue flowers; for there
is a strong infusion of Tyrian and royal
purple in the violet and the pansy. But
whoever heard of a blue rose or of @
sapphire dahlia? -Nay, I-am-not betraying my ignorance. I know what wonderful things our modern gardeners can effect, a Q
and how, by the aid of chemistry, they Za
ean obtain what colours they please 1n
their flowers... But I am _ speaking of
mother Nature. I want to know why she |
economises that lovely colour, and I want
to know whether there was such a thing
as a blue rose in the Garden of Eden.
And if not, why? It is an interesting
specualtion. Has Nature used up all
her blue pigments in her skies and seas
so that she has none left for her children?
Well, there is compensation, What
rare is dear, and we cannot help loving
the tiny, blue-eyed children that look all
so modest beside their regal and florid
sisters.

I think this must be the reason why
the mystical German poet, Novalis, chose
a blue flower as the symbol of poetry,
though his flower was not a tiny childkin
of Nature but a great tall garden queen. |
You remember the story how amid innumerable flowers of all colours and. of
sweetest perfumes he saw nothing but
the blue flower, and as he approached it
tenderly it began to change and become
more lovely; then the flower bent towards
him and the petals became a blue spreading ruff in which hovered a most lovely
face. So after many adventures and
wanderings through lonely places, he found
the object of his life’s search and lo!
it was all a dream. The Blue Flower
in the story is poetry, poetry itself being
the supreme art in which all others are
combined. But even this does not tell
us why Nature, so lavish in all else, is so
sparing in creating blue flowers, |

is

15‘ per pkt.
29 for 39°

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

 

Manufactured by

Canora.

 

DALHOUSIE DEBATING TEAM

 

W. J. McCURDY

H. A. DAVIDSON W. E. DARBY, (Leader)

 

| Since we are in a knocking mood we may be pardoned for a word
to the users of the showers. Honestly, boys, you don’t get free soap
anywhere else that you ever bathe except home, and you really
haven't the slightest right to receive it at the Gymnasium. If you
don't think far enough ahead to get a cake of soap for your locker‘
don't try to wreck the furnishings to make up for it.

Good old piano! It is a sight for the gods to see the gallant efforts
of an orchestra as they strive for heavenly harmony led by our old
rattle trap. No musician has yet succeeded in finding a key that
sounds the note that the piano manufacturer intended, and some of
them fail to sound at all. We seriously think that we are touching
on a very practical point right here. Not a week will pass till the
examination grind starts early in April during which there will not be
one or more entertainments requiring music. The present instrument
is only hired. Why does the Dance Committee not interest itself
in getting a real piano substituted for the disgraceful apology that
we have-at present, and thus render a real service to the University?
As a matter of general information we may say that the student
Council hired the piano and are therefore the ones to say whether
it shall go or stay.

In any household, food is a primary essential to life, but the same
food is capable of infinite variation. The quantity of salt, pepper and
mustard with the food regulates its palatibility. The food of “The
Rest of Dalhousie’ comes as a yearly grant. A little more attention
to salt, pepper and mustatd requirements, in the form of “Incidenta]s”’
would be of inestimable value.

NOTE: Since this Editorial was written we have been informed
that the Students’ Council are about to conduct a small, silent campaign for permanent equipment for the Gymnasium. Towards this
the Board of Governors has made an initial grant of two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250.00).

Jnpersal Tobacco Co of Canada,Limited.

Kine of
CIGARETTES

 

 

  
  

 

   
    
     

 

Engineering Notes

The first meeting of the Engineering
Society for the year 1926 was held on January Sth, President Armstrong occupying
the stool. Several matters of importance,
relative to the winter activities of the
society, were dealt with. It was decided
that the Engineers would enter a hockey
team in the interfaculty league. Mr.
Horne, the athletic manager, intimated
that this team would probably be somewhat superior to that of last year. The
matter of a class party was then brought
forward. After much controversy between the skaters and the sleigh drivers, it
was decided to leave the final decision with
the social committee, to be reported on at
a special meeting of the society to be held
on January 11th. In addition to these
athletic and social activities the Engineers

| will have lots of intellectual food during

the coming months. It was moved and
carried unanimously that the Engineering
society take steps to obtain the services
of some prominent commercial men to
deliver a number of lectures on interesting
technical subjects

The Players’ Guild of University College presented as their semi-annual evening production this year, Lord Dunsany’s
“Tf."" Two years ago they presented very
successfully Dunsany’s ‘‘The Laughter of
the Gods.”

St. Joseph’s College Dramatic Society
recently presented Jane Austen’s ‘Pride
and Prejudice,’ dramatized by Miss
Mary Coughlin. .

Engineering Song

Transits, levels, tapes and chains,
Engineers!

Dynamos, bridges, turbines, cranes,
Engineers!

Who was it drained away the flood?
Dammed the Nile to save the mud?
Engineers of Dalhousie.

Who build walls to baulk the sea?
Engineers!

Who drink their fill of T. N. T.?
Engineers!

Who pulled Jonah out of the whale?
Built the ark that Noah sailed?
Engineers of Dalhousie.

Who really love the girls the most?
Engineers!

Men who do and never boast?
Engineers!

Who was it put the heat in H——?
Slammed the door and rang the bell?
Engineers of Dalhousie.

\ ho'll go to Heaven when they die?
Engineers! _

W ho ll grow wings and learn to fly?
Engineers! "
Who will keep the Golden Gate,

And swear at those who come in late?
Engineers of Dalhousie.

 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
  
   
  

’
a
a
.
i A

7

—

a he

 

Ps ~ Dal students will perha
a
Service team played during the last foot
et ee Aa? to dct :
_ an unassuming air, neither crowing over
_ the defeated ones, nor thinking themselves

 

 

ter-Faculty Sport is in a deplorable
. This perhaps to many would ap
9 a Sweeping statement, neverit is in the main true. To those

‘member the disgraceful ending of
ootball league two years ago it
d come as a distinct surprise to them
arn that this branch of student acy is still run in the same indifferent
ner that makes this league rather a

t remember the
urkable clean game that the United
Teme

season, and it is a significant fact
this team was composed mainly of
hmen or of those trained under
sh methods. Not once were they
ty of any questionable tactics because
ave been taught to ‘‘play the game.”’
ie Inter-Faculty League was organ
  
 
 

rHey
a - =
i

ei Soa

: ‘a bene ne students, who were unable to
Le he College teams, an opportunity

7

} pas

_ to give and take hard knocks; to take de
to get some good healthy exercise; to make
men, out of them; to try and teach them

t with a smile, profiting in future
by the mistakes they made in
s; and to accept victory with

 

igods because of their victories. In

‘ance, it was founded to make out of

tl e Canadian youth who found their

fay to Dalhousie, future Canadian citizens who would know how ‘“‘to play the
ame” both to their God and their Coun
  
 
 
 
  

‘try, men of whom Dalhousie could be

stly proud. It wasalso to bea means of
eveloping players that would be able to
up - the reputation of the College
against any opponent, filling the places of
those who had left. But Inter-Faculty
Sport as run at present does none of these.
A winning team gets about four opportunities “for healthy exercise” a losing,
about two. The practices are at the best
but poorly attended and the teams usually
a foregone conclusion. The games themselves, though the best of good feeling
revails, are exhibitions of the most
Baeant breaches of all rules of both game
and sport. The umpire not only has to
watch most closely for questionable playing but has to frequently count the playrs, argue about his decisions, and keep
himself clear of flying feet or sticks as the
a may be. This might be all very
funny but it gives one the impression of
something very like a crooked business
deal. As a means of developing players
a practically no good at all. It does in
sket-ball, but then thanks to Mr. Stirling, Basket-ball is well run. Hockey
merely gives a few players who knew the
game before they got here, a chance to get
a stick free, to have a lot of fun in three or
four slash-bang-win-at-any-price games
and in some cases to develop an already
overdeveloped “‘ego’’. There should be
at Dalhousie an Inter-Faculty Hockey
eague of at least three rounds, composed
entirely of players who are not on either
the first or the second teams. The practice of playing second team men should
be abolished, for they have their own Hockey
ractices to keep them busy. {t should
a more along the tines of the Buckshe
league at King’s, playing two games a week
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings.
There are two spots of infection in this
fnter-Faculty Sport body, the system
under which it is run and the students
themselves which is really one, THE
STUDENTS. This which I am writing
cannot cotrect these defects it can only
bring them to your notice for you to
correct. You alone can correct them.

Mr. Stirling on
Inter-Faculty Sport

  

 

Mr. Stirling, who has placed InterFaculty. Basket-Ball in a very satisfacfer state, when asked what he thought
about Inter-Faculty Sport in general and
articular gave the following

Hockey in
e thought that Inter-Faculty

pinions. :
en ek-son laboring under a false impres
sion. It.was of primary importance
for developing material for the College
teams and not a means whereby one

- Faculty could triumph over another.

The D. A. A. C. he thinks should appoint,
in addition to their Hockey and Basket
_ ball managers, men to take charge of Inter
Faculty Hockey and Basketball. One
man.in each sport who could work in
conjunction with the Faculty managers
and himself,and thereby bring to a stop
the constant differences and bickerings
that goes on at present in Inter-Faculty
Sport. He also emphatically states that
the sécond team should noé be allowed to
play Inter-Faculty but that this should
not mean that Inter-Faculty players
would consider their Faculties before their
Collége and so stay out of the second
team, for then the idea of Inter-Faculty
Sport would be entirely defeated. The
League should start early in the Season
and continue through the Hockey season
consisting of as many games a week as
possible. The latter would then tend to
eliminate many of the practices that are
a source of expense to the different Faculties. There should be at least two nights
a week set aside at the Dal rink and that
four teams should play each night. This
would mean that each team would play
two games one week and one the next
and so on. These changes he thinks are
urgently necessary, particularly this year
in view of the fact that Dal. has to develop
an entirely new senior team for next
winter. A proper Inter-Faculty League
is the only way to do it!

  

ei

 

On New Year's ‘night the employees |

of Dalhousie held a very enjoyable dance
at the Gym. The building was prettily
decorated with colored streamers of pink,
blue and green. About ten o’clock the
two hundred guests sat down to-a most
enjoyable supper and then considerably
refreshed returned to the dance, for the
music of Mills’ Orchestra was too good
to be wasted. Many of the old dances
were put in between those of the more
modern typé, the Walse Quadrille and
the Polka being danced for probably the
first time on the Gymnasium floor. Fred
Bissett (Law '26) was the master of ceremonies and. the ‘fair haired boy,’’.as one
young lady described him, acquitted
himself in a-most exemplary manner. At
half-past twelve it was brought to a close
and all the guests pronounced it the best
ever. Several Professors and quite a

number of students were — and they
t

joined with the rest of the guests in declaring it to have been a most enjoyable
evening. During the evening little Violet
Fisher danced several Scotch dances,
assisted by her diminutive brother on the
Bagpipes. The dance was arranged for
and run by a very efficient committee
composed of Messrs. Sykes, Fry, Colpitt,
Wild, Lester, Sweep, Thompson, Elliott
and last but not least Miss Wilson.
pL. A.

So the Students May Know

This (3 @ Telephone. (tel-e-fore)

 

These little pictorial lessons are of
great assistance to the students of
Studley who have never had an opportunity of seeing a telephone.

Watch next week for Lesson No. 2.

“*How to use the telephone.’’

 

- Cable Address: “"McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald
Barristers, Soricirors &c.

HALIFAX, N.S.

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C. Macdonald, K. C
Stuart Jenks, K. C. F. B. A. Chipman
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. E. MacKay

Small
But Important

YOUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat

may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLLar
you wear—it is the one article of
dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
that confidence which comes from
good grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no welld man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,
which is so acceptable.

L 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry
85 West St.

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

 

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Jan. 16th

‘On Saturday night, Jan. 16th., at 8.15
p. m. in the Gymnasium at Studley, the
English Imperial Debating Team, representing the best public speakers of the
English Universities, will meet the Dalhousie- Team in forsenic battle. The
subject. which Dalhousie has chosen to
oppose is as follows: ‘‘Resolved that the
Geneva Protocol is worthy of the support
of Great Britain and the Dominions.”
Last year's intercollegiate debating team,
eomposed of Messrs. Walter E. Darby,
Herbert A. Davison and W. Jarvis McCurdy, will represent Dalhousie. It is
only with a spirit of co-operation on the
part of the student body, and. with a
spimt of diligence and sacrifice on the part
of the members of the debating team, that
Dalhousie will be able to wphold on the
college rostrum something of the same
glorious tradition handed down by the
immortal orators whose names wil be
forever linked with this battlefield. Let
every Dalhousian be out to support his
team. Saturday night, in the Gymnasium.

Marriage of ‘Prof.
Horace Read

Windsor, Dec. 23—The marriage of
Miss Helena Louise, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. M. A. Miller, of Windsor,
to Professor Horace Emmerson Read,
son of Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Read, of Amherst took place at St. John’s Church
here at three o’clock this afternoon. Rev.
G. W. Miller, uncle of the bride, officiated,
he being assisted by Rev. Mr. Kyle,
pastor of St. John’s Church,

The church was tastefully decorated
for the occasion with evergreen and
poinsetta, there being an arch of evergreen in the centre of the church and under
this arch the ceremony was performed,
During the service the choir rendered ‘‘O
Perfect Love,” and Miss Marion Read,
a sister of the groom, sang a solo, “O
Promise Me,’”’ in a most pleasing voice.
Miss Louise Bennett, organist, played the
wedding march and accompaniment.

A delightful impression was created
by the bride who looked charming in an
ensemble travelling costume of poiret twill
in rust and navy, a gold lace hat and
marten neckpiece. Her boquet consisted
of beautiful Ophelia roses. Mrs. Hubert
Warne, of Digby, the matron of. honor,
a friend of the bride’s at Acadia University, where they were students together,
wore rust colored flat crepe with black and
gold hat and carried mauve and yellow
chrysanthemums. Hector Munro, of Truro, was groomsman and Professor A. L.
MacDonald, a colleague of the groom,
and J. Gordon Fogo, a former classmate,
were ushers.

The groom's gift to the bride was a
beautiful pearl necklace.

The many friends of the happy couple
wished them bon voyage as they left for
a short tour of the Upper Canadian cities.
Upon their return they will reside in
Halifax where Professor Read is a valued member of the staff of the Dalhousie
Law School.

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four PRrEssINGS

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices. <3 3:

Light Lunches and Ice Cream

ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

 

|Imperial Debate|/The Dental Dance

The traditional success of Dental Society affairs and a vigorous canvass by its
members induced the men and women of
the University who dance and some others
to attend the annual Dental ‘At Home”’
in the Gymnasium on the night of Monday the 11th.

With the care and completeness characteristic of dentists, the Gymnasium
was beautifully decorated in the college
colors. The programmes, with their ingenious names for the sixteen dances,
fitted perfectly into the color scheme.

The orchestra looked particularly well
obscured behind a lattice-work of gold
streamers. The accurate and periodic
descent of Mr. MacLean’s right foot onthe
loud pedal of the piano left no opportunity
for the most unmusical to dance out of
time,

Toward the temporary filling of the
greatest of human cavities the toothsome
supper prepared by the prince of caterers,
Mr. Blakley, materially contributed
The sensitive palate detected the subtle
taste of water in the otherwise insipid
punch.

The dance was chaperoned by Dean and
Mrs. Thompson, Dr. and Mrs. Bagnall,
Dr. and Mrs. Oxner, and Dr. and Mrs.
Cameron with their customary delicacy
and effectiveness.

All the usual thanks and credit are due
the hard-working, splendid committee
who modestly omitted their names from
the programme. The new blood in the
Dental Society this year which set so high
a scholastic standard seems also to have
imparted greater social vigor to that virile
society. One more step in the establishment of Dalhousie’s reputation as a
dancing academy was taken on Monday
night.

The Hockey Team

vs. The Senate

The student body was greatly interested
in the action of the Senate regarding the
eligibility of George Ernst for the Dalhousie-King’s hockey team. It has been
rumored that Thursday morning was the
scene of a great battle in the meeting
room of the Senate and it is gratifying to
find that the outcome was as successful
as the following letter shows:

Mr. J. Gerald Godsoe,
The Secretary of the Council of the
Students.
Forrest Building, Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N.S.
Dear Sir:—

The Senate at its meeting yesterday
carefully considered the whole question of
non-academic student activities in so far
as it affects the status of persons engaging
therein, who are enrolled in institutions
outside Dalhousie University proper. In
the course of the discussion, it became
apparent that theological students in the
city, if the rules are strictly applied,
have no opportunity of engaging in the
athletic life of the community, especially
as participants in the various football
and hockey leagues. Accordingly, the
following resolution was adopted by
Senate, to be transmitted to the Council of
the Students for whatever action it may
eare to take thereon:

“For the purpose of Article 8, Section

12, of the Constitution of the Council of

the Students, persons registered in

King’s Divinity School or in Pine Hill

College may be © considered eligible

to represent. Dalhousie University in

non-academic student activities, but
such persons must satisfy in their own
institutions regulations similar to those
governing the students of Dalhousie

University, as set forth on pages 15

and 19 of the Calendar for 1925-26.”’

Kindly let me know at your earliest
convenience what action the Council] takes
on this suggested interpretation of the
article in question.

Yours truly,
HENRY F. MUNRO,
Secretary.

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington S‘s.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and College Text Books

Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

 

Page Three

Film is Tonic for
Thrill-Hungry Fans

If you like thrills, if you want to laugh,
if you like romance, if you enjoy good
acting, if you can appreciate a marvellous
cast, go to the CASINO THEATRE next
week and see “The New: Commandment,”
Robert T. Kane’s initial picture for First
National. It has all the above and much
more besides.

“The New Commandment”’ is a society
melodrama made to order for the modern
movie fan. There are big moments in
Kane’s great picture.

In the cast are Blanche Sweet, Ben
Lyon, Holbrook Blinn, Dorothy Cummings
George Cooper, Pedro de Cordova, Effie
Shannon and many others.

Sada Cowan and Howard Higgin made
the screen adaption of “The New Commandment”’ from Colonel Frederick Palmer’s great novel, “Invisible Wounds.”’
Howard Higgin is also responsible for the
film’s nonpareil direction.

WATCH! WAIT! WHAT FOR? THE
JUNIOR-SENIOR DANCE FEB. 12

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Hair Cu7ttine is sure

satisfy. Lapres’ Hatr Curttinc in all
styles; also Curtinc, SHAMPOOING and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.
Phone S 4780 41 Sackville St.

You know the rest of this
alphabet, but won't you
usic Dealer's Text Book.

ALPHA BETA

learn the music from a
It starts like this:
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles

Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos

Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher's, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

 

 

 

 

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

SpeciAL Bogpsinc PARrtLors
For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

 

SE

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is
A Real Science

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing. is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose,

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover. Continuous Purifying

System which

clothes.

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

revives your

 

 
 

eee

|

 

   
 

‘Clothes Seen at the Colleges
| SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS
| W. F. Page
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

     

  
    
     
    

 

Dalhousie — Kings
1—Dartmouth 3

It is now more than a week since Dartmouth beat Dal. in the opening game of
the City League at the Arena. There was
present at the game hardly a representative number of students, but let us hope
that there will be the biggest crowd in the
history of Dal. hockey, at_Friday’s game
against the Wanderers. The game from
the Dalhousie point of view might well
be summed up in four words, “Bates
rushes, Lewis saves.”’. Fabie, though he
was not playing in mid-season form, so
far surpassed the rest of the team that he
fairly scintillated. He scored Dal’s only
goal by one of the most brilliant pieces
of individual work seen here for years. He
was always dangerous, always on the
puck, always trying, playing with. but
a short relief his usual clean. game which
has gained for him the admiration of all
the local foilowers of Canada’s National

 

ort.

Jack, though beaten by some easy
shots, played in a manner that would have
made the redoutable ‘‘Duke’’ turn green
with envy. Turning aside shot after shot,
making many impossible saves and some
almost miraculous ones, he was the big
factor in keeping the score down to what
it was. “Nutty” didn’t play up to
form by any means as the heavy ice seemed
to bother him, still at times he blocked
well and made some very good rushes.
Waddington was far too light for the
defence and so was prevented from showing up as wellas he might have. Hestickhandles well and keeps his position.
Creighton played a fairly steady game
and on several occasions Edwards was
forced to make brilliant saves to keep the
puck from his stick out of the net. The
spares, Langstroth and Taylor both performed creditably though George still
doesn’t keep his position very well.

The Dal. team showed lack of practice
and sadly missed Ernst from the defence.

Line-up: Goal, Lewis; Defence, Wilson,
Waddington; Forwards, Bates, Creighton
Spares: Langstroth, Taylor. Referees:
Butler, Wilkie.

CASINO

NEXT WEEK
MON., TUES., WED.

“THE NEW
COMMANDMENT ”

with

BLANCH SWEET and BEN LYON —
THUR., FRI., SAT. |

“THE PEOPLE vs.
NANCY PRESTON”

and

“GALLOPING HOOFS”’

 

       
           
  

  
     
    
 
 

  

The Dress Shop
The Hat Shop:
The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

 
      

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail.

- Jensen & Mills Co. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

        

 

 

 

 

_ Students, Please Take Notice-
| game,.

|| The Hockey Trip

score in
Dartmouth, McIntyre scoring in
second period on a wing shot. Producing

 

Leaving Halifax on Tuesday morning
we arrived safely in New Glasgow where
the Cape Breton contingent joined us.
That night we played New Glasgow and
although beaten. by two to nothing the
team played very well for their first
New. Glasgow, coached in the
Upper. Canada style played a three man

| combination, rushing up and then skating

backwards with their sticks flat on the ice,

|}making it_ almost impossible to break

through. -That night we were entertained
at a dance given in our honor. Leaving
there the next morning we set out for
the Island._ Arriving there safely, we
rested for the remainder of the day. The
following night we played the ‘‘Abbies.”
Again we suffered defeat, but by only one
goal and forced the ‘‘Abbies” to extend
themselves to their limit in order to win.
After the game we looked up old friends
made last year and retired at an early
hour. The following afternoon we again
met the “‘Abbies,”’ but this time they beat
us 5-2. Dal.-was very tired after the
long trip and the game the night before
didn’t refresh us to any extent, besides
we lacked spares while the ‘“Abbies’”’
used four throughout the whole game.
That night we were the guests of honor at
a dance and the following morning saw
us once more bidding fareweli to the
“Garden of the Gulf.”’ The P. E. Islanders treated us very well and couldn’t seem
to do enough for us. The Abbies with
their old men back again are a very
strong aggregation and should have no
trouble in winning the Maritime title.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DANCE

Feb. 12th, at the Gym, the
Junior-Senior dance takes
place. It promises to be

one of the ‘‘Best Ever,’’ so
forget your cares and
troubles, save your pennies
and take it in.

WATCH FOR POSTERS

 

Intermediate Game

 

Dalhousie was at the short end of a 2-1
the Intermediate game with
the

almost as good a brand of hockey as in the
senior game, it was exciting from start to
finish. In the first period McCunn received a slight gash in one of his fingers,
but Manager Upham rendered first aid
and he was able to proceed. More players
should turn out for second team as Dalhousie looks like a winner in this League
and this year there are medals for the
winning team.

Goal: Beaton; Defence, McCunn, Munroe; Forwards, Taylor, Andrews, McIntyre; Spares, Grant, Godsoe, Doull.

 

  

om The

WINNERS From 1

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods h
a mark of perfection.

as been
f No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX 32 N.S.

   

   
 
   

George F. Power |

| Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES |
_ OF EVERY DESCRIPTION |

 
 

=—ALSO—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax |

  

  
 

Majestic Bldg.
| HALIFAX
rom

that we carry a full stock of Pens and Pencils, including the products of Waterman, Parker and Wahl Pens and Eversharps, and
that we maintain a SERVICE STATION where we give prompt
and accurate service on repairs and replacements.

COOLEY BROS.

395

Jewelers

BARRINGTON STREET

 

    
 
   
   
  
    
 
 
   
 
  
    
  
   
      
   
   
     
    
             
       
     
    
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

STUDENT TICKETS 35c

 

 

Interesting News
Weekly

In March of last year, after much
heralding and speculation, there appeared
a little magazine bearing the cryptic title
“G. K.’s Weekly.” On the cover of the
first two issues one saw a chalk drawing
of a large imposing gentleman with eyeglasses below a beetling brow and great
masses of much-toussled hair. One witty
critic remarked :—

G. K.'s weekly’s out at last,

And I don’t think any lover

Of G. K. who sees the vast
Familiar figure on the cover
Looming large, prodigious, fat
Will (I say this humbly, meekly)
Even dare to whisper that,

G. K.’s Weakly!

 

It was, of course, none other than
Chesterton himself and his characteristic
individualism, diverting and interesting
to the last degree—fills this his very striking venture into journalism. His éver
continuing fight against capitalism, is
continued with renewed vigor, and his
unrivalled neatness in expressing his
sentiments in the most pithy manner, 1s
more evident than ever. It is no exaggeration to say that his is the most gigantic
intellect among writers of English today.
. Book reviews and a dramatic critique
—both of unusual excellence and novelty
of treatment are to be found each
week. Bits of delightful poetry by the latest writers are scattered here and there.
In short “G. K.’s Weekly” is a masterpiece—every issue—and it is to be hoped
that it will soon appear in the library for
the use of students at Dalhousie.

$24.00

Suit or
Over Coat

to your measure.
in Canada.

 

  

  
   
    
 
  

Best value

See the many advantages |i
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your

clothes.

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

 
 
  
 
  
   
     
  

 

    
    
      
   
  
   

About Repairs! |

Is your watch keeping proper |
time? If it isn't we will overcome |

this for you.

Bring it in and give it to our
Watch Repair Dept and they will
make it as good as new.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS Ltd.
Barrington Street

  

 
 

   
   

Be

  

“*Eversharp’’ Leads
FREE

We fill your pencil and give an EXTRA
Box FREE w’th every “‘Eversharp”’
Penc'! this month

50c up

KELLYS Ltd.
GRANVILLE STREET

 
    

 

    
     
     
 

IMPERIAL DEBATING TEAM

DALHOUSIE

** RESOLVED that the Geneva Protocol is worthy of the support
of Great Britain and her Dominions.”’

 

 

Gymnasium, Studley, Saturday, January 16th, 8.15 p.m i 3

 

 

 

ee ad

January 14, 1926

Majestic Notes

The latter, part of this week the Ma| jestic-is presenting ‘The Beautiful City
with Dorothy Gish and Richard Barthelmess. It is-a story of the New York
underworld, its-dark mysteries and gruesome life. A strain of humor permeates
the whole which eclipses the sordidness
and makes a delightful, fast moving story.
The first-three days of next week Patsy

Ruth Miller will appear in ‘‘Rose of the

World.” She is supported by Alan
| Rorrest. This is from the novel of
| Kathleen Norris.

With the introduction of a Symphony
Orchestra the Majestic presents a .most
pleasing atmosphere for the presentation
of motion pictures. : .

The soft rose and blue lighting effects
and the melodious seven piece orchestra
are beautiful in themselves and present a
most receptive background for the screen
program.

    
   
       

GENERAL ADMISSION 50c

 

  

MY GIRL’S A CRACKERJACK.

My girl’s. a crackerjack,

She wears the Gold and Black,
She goes to Dalhousie,

I go there to ii
And in my future life

She’s going to be my wife.

How - did you find that out?
She told me so.

 

 

 

SNAPSHOTS IN AND
ABOUT DALHOUSIE

No. 2

She goes to all the games
With ail the other janes,
I furnish all the change.
I go there too
And in my future life, etc., etc.

LK

 

She goes to all the shows,
Wears all the latest clothes,
Powders her little nose,

What for? God only knows,
And in my future life, etc., etc.

When I grow older,

Then I'll be bolder,

And I will hold her

Close to my shoulder,

And in my future life, etc., etc.

ENGINEERS’ YELL.

Students leaving Professor HOWARD

Yell, Yell, Holy Hell! a :
MURRAY ’S class as the first bell rings.

Engineers of D—A—L.
Building bridges, drinking beer:
Leave it to the Engineers.

 

YOU MUST BE THERE ! WHERE?

AT THE ARENA FRIDAY NIGHT JAN. 15th

DALHOUSIE vs. WANDERERS

SUPPORT YOUR TEAM !

A Block of Seats have been Reserved for Dalhousie Rooters
Tickets may be obtained from Jack Atwood

GET YOURS NOW!

The Commerce Society plans to hold a
social function in the near future. A
meeting to discuss the matter was held
on Tuesday, January 12th. The arrangements were left in the hands of the social
committee.

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers x2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicans,
also Weppinc Bouquets. We
also do Tasre Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSER

8 BLOWERS ST.
| Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

   

 

   

    

:
FAIRLY

JEWELRY FAieee

H. C. HENDERSON |
57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville |

HIGH
CLASS

   

 

    

|
|
|

  

 

 

 

 

If You Want to See Well

When in Town See WALLACE

GET THE

Three Essentials
1. Pure Food and Candy

2. Prompt and Courteous
Service

3. Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST.

T. J. WALLACE
Y. M. C. A. Bidg.

Optometrist & Optician

 

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR
STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Geo. Alexander

| For Distinctive Style and

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

All-round Excellency

*Astoria’”’
SHOES

For Men

 

En mee S Nirib ens an
~ Smart tad.
FOR MEN |

Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to keep up appearances.
These very men are the fellows you see
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords —_|
and Spats.

  
  
   
 
  

Stand out as the Leaders in
Canadian Footwear.

W. L. Tuttle

SHOE DEALER

Barrington St., Spring Garden Road
and Dartmouth

a

OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

- Wallace Bros.

. aie BARRINGTON ST.

 

'
}
|
|
|

 

 
