4%

    
    

   
  

ate Pee et,

Bah! EIN

Se
=
So

   

 

La

  
 
 

et

VOL. LXVIII NO. 12

A

—— ee
i

a: in ru,
me ee mt

ap Ar a | }
ee

   
 
    

 

os
r 1.
oar

bi

+?

MN

  
      

  

Mm,

      
 

[

“ii

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 4th 1926

_ Weighed in the Balance and
Found Wanting.”’

 

a = “ a
a <a Dear Mr. Editor: consists of Prof. G. E. Wilson, representie: A recent issue of the Gazette contained] ing the Senate and H. E. Mahon and

if re Council the Confidence of the Students?”’
which éontribution while

i of fact which warranted such a heading.
rg — With the choice of phraseology and
. diction I have nothing t » say, but at the
same time I feel that it is incumbent
hs oe me as an officer of that body to

a dispute the asserted inference and en. deavour to demonstrate that the article
my in question was unjustifiable and _un
warranted, and in respect to most ef the
e. assertions contained therein was without
a scintilla of truth in substance or in
fact. 1 do’not charge that the author
was wilfully untruthful, but I have no
hesitation in declaring that the entire
composition was grossly unfair, and at
absolute variance with the facts as re
rds the administration of the affairs
of the students of Dalhousie University,
by their elected representatives. I will
take up seriatim the criticism and assertions made by by the writer, and attempt
i ‘to show, and I think with some degree
of success, that these are inaccurate,
misleading, and in many cases pure

fabrications. a,

1. “The present Student Counctl ts

too large.’ Admittedly so. It was the

original intntion of the founders when

the council was formed that it should

F always remain a compact and at the
same time flexible body of approximately
17 members. Unfortunately the unususual and desirable growth in numbers of
Dalhousie was unforseen by the framers
of the original constitution, The inss evittable result was, and it is admitted,
‘number of representatives com
  
  
 
  

e Student Council based on the
every 25 students, as at

a yt, composes a council too large and
. @ ersome. It may be said however
that the larger the body the more representative it becomes in voicing student
opinion. This is a matter which deserves seriois consideration and which
moreover is a debatable question.
If the Students Council is too large
and unwieldly an executive body, its
numbers could easily be reduced by
increasing the present unit of representation and the adoption of a sliding scalwith the understanding clearly set out
in the constitution that the council
should never exceed 17 in number, and
the rights of the minoritivs to be zealously guarded.

The suggestion of a fixed number of
representatives for each faculty is absurd
and ludicrous. At one fell swoop would
be cast aside the principle of representation by population cver which our ancestors bickered for generations but
which principle is now acknowledged to
be the bulwark of every self-governing
nationality. To give Dentistry 2 representatives for their present 20 students

or one representative for every 10 while
to Arts, Engineering and Commerce
would be assigned 9 representatives for
their 500 students or 1 representative for
50. Truly ‘‘the times are out of joint”
and the author of such a suggestion would
have some difficulty in explaining to an
Arts man why he would make one-fifth
as valuable a representative on the Coun
cil as a fellow student from Dentistry.
Therefore while I agree with some reservations with the author of this statement when he states that the Students
Council as at present constituted is too
large a body I also have endeavored to
pint out how nonsensical and puerile
is his suggested method ef reforming the

—s rgpresentation of the Council.
-—s.-sTn reply to the second assertion,
That when an acut2 problem arises
oe ey between these two bedies 1. e. the Senate
and the Students’ Council, that th:

th latter is wholly inefficient,” this stateFal eet is either made through misinforma, “ tion or shows lamentable lack of know___ ledge of the activities of the students ob
___—“*Dathousie University. It will be super_ fluous for me to answer this charge since
the managers of the teams in the three
jor sports of the University and the
'y of the D, A. A. C. will confvte
: ment in the same issue of the
_ Gazette in which this letter appears.
In reference to ‘‘the committee of a
ermanent nature chosen either from
udents or Alumni to be on hand to act
disputes between the Senate and
” if the pamphleteer had had
ough he would have found
have at the present time
ry committee. ‘This
“to the Students’
and

; the Senate

f

  
 
 
   
  

    
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
    
 
  
  
   
   

 

 

FIQOTY
(ay

      
    
  
 

*

an article entitlea, “‘Has the Students

urporting to
| be one of constructive criticism, did not
contain either an assertion or a statement

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   

H. E, Pyke representing the Alumni.

that may arise and also carefully go
over the budgets of the Council before
the money is appropriated to the various
societies under the jurisdiction of the
Council.

Apparently Mr. McInnes is unfamiliar
with this fact and how any gentleman
of his attainments and activities in our
college life could attend our University
for six years and be ignorant of this |
am at a less to understand.

It might be stated in passing to dispute
the suggestion that the Students’ Council does not meet early enough that last
yea the first meeting of this body was

eld on the first day.of lectures in the
Arts and Science Faculties, i.e. Sept. 28th.
This being the earliest meeting of the
Council in the history of the University.

8. Whether or not the Dalhousie
open air rink should have been built
is a controversial question. The fact
remains that the rink was left as a foundling on our door step by last years outgoing Council. The initial capital exr
penditure on the rink was tremendous
and to help meet this cost last year’s
Council borrowed $300 from the Board
of Governors of the University on the
credit of the incoming or present Council. This year’s Council was forced to
meet this liability of $300 as a first charge
before the University would part with
the fees collected from the students for
the Students’ Council.

Whether or not the rink would be
erected this year was a question which
was inquired into by a committee from
the Council consisting of Miss G. Messenger, Messrs. Owen Armstrong and
Jarvis McCurdy. On their recommendation and investigation, the Counci
was unanimously of the opinion that the
rink should be set up again during the
present winter.

Concerning the statement ‘‘that the
building and upkeep on the rink for the
present year will be some hundreds cf
dollars abcve the estimates which will
result in a curtailment of funds for many
societies and an undersirable check on
their activities’ this is entirely misleading. The only item spent on the rink
which was not estimated in the original
budget was the need of a new shack.
The rink manager last year at the end
of the season sold for a pittance the
shack which was then in existence.
This was not known when the rink
budget was drawn up at the beginning
ef this year, but as soon as it was ascertained the matter was brought up by the
rink manager in a Council meeting and
it was decided that a new shack was a
necessity and it was built at a cost of
about $88.00. Even then the estimates
were reduced by the sum of $65.00
($40 on erection and $265 in installation
of lights). In regard to curtailing the
activities of other societies through a
scarcity of funds it is well known that the
Council this year is laboring under a
Herculanean financial task brought about
not by the extra $23 ($88 less $65) as
above spent on the rink but by

1. faulty financing of previous Councils which has forced us to pay about
$400 in bills contracted by last year’s
Council,

2. <A decrease of about 50 in the enrollment of this year.

3. $300 mentioned above borrowed
from the Board of Governors by last
year’s Council and repaid this year.

4. Wretchedly bad weather during
the football season which made good
“sates” an impossibility.

5: The poor showing so far of the
hockey team. In other years we received as high as $200 a game. This year
on one game we received $56, and on
another $18.

Personally I am of th. opinion that
the Council should spend as much as
they can on activities which are open to
the entire student body such as the
rink, the Glee Club and th- Cazette.

4. The fourth pcint mentioned seems
to be rather a contradiction of the second
point. Cne minute the Council is
being tlamed for doing too little for the
D. A. A. C. and in the same breath we
are confronted with the charge that we
are doing, too much for the Db. A. A. C.,
that it is a mere ‘‘passive”’ body.

Permit me t> go inte the history of the
formation of the Counci! and of the
D. A. A. C.’s position in regard to the
Council. Some 15 years ago, before the
Council was formed, all the societies at
Dalhovsie were on their own focting,
They had their own separate officers and
collected their own fees. having diffi
These gentlemen are at all times available and willing to act in any disputes

The Law Dance

The annual Law Dance was held on
Monday evening in the Masonic Hall
and was a great sudcess.
hundred people attendéd the function and
enjoyed the reunion with all the gusto of
former years.

Under the management of a highly
capable committee headed by the effi
 

cient ‘“‘Tookie’’ Murphy this dance was
destined from the beginning to be a suc
cess. ‘‘Tookie’’ and his cohorts spared

no pains te make the dance function pro
perly and if the = pe of supreme
satisfaction on the fate

was any indication of the accomplishment of that desire they did achieve their

aim,

The music for the o€casion was supplied by MacLean’s Crchestra and was of an

unusually high standard featuring all the
creations of Jazzdom. ‘Those present
were prcfuse in their praise of the splendid quality of music rehdered and showed
their appreciation by continually desiring more.

The chaperones for the evening were
Dean and Mrs. Read, Prof. and Mrs.
Macdonald, Prof. and Mrs. Read. They
performed their duties in true Law
Schoc!l manner and once again cemented
the feeling affection ahd good fellowship
always existing between the members of
the school and thcse of the staff.

Amongst the guests were many of the
graduates of recent years who took advantage of the annual reunion to renew
acquaintanceship and reforge the bonds
of attachment formed with the old schoo!
in days past. They too forgot the troubles of the day and for a fleeting space
lived once again the days when they took
H. &. L. from Dean MacRae and carved
their names in the back seats of the Mcot
Court Room whilst the lecture in Real
Property was in progress.

The dance ha!l was very artistically decorated and was a credit to the artistic
taste of those who did the work. Dalhousie's colors were used for the decorative effect and the gold and black under
the lighting scene gave a pleasing appearance to the Terpsichorian artists as
they glided over the excellent floor.

The members of the Law School are
deeply indebted to the many Halifax concerns who so generously helped the committee in their work. They wish particularly to mention Phinneys, Ltd., I. J.
Wallace, The Nova Scotia Furnishing
Co., as well as the Halifax Shipyards and
Willis’ Piano Co. These firms very generously supplied all accessories required a
and the Law Society is very grateful for
their kindness.

LL

culty in collecting these fezs, they were
continually short of money, and were in
debt to practically . ll the firms in Halifax. It was then that the idea of a
general Students’ Council was formulated which should act as a medium between the student body and the University Autberities and the general public
and have complete control ever the
different societies in the University.

The Senate on their part agreed to col-]

lect from every student a sum, the
amount of which was to be fixed by
the Council of the year preceding that,
for which such sum was to be collected,
before such Council retired from cffice.
The amount so collected was to be aportioned as the inccming Council saw fit
for the encouragement and support of the
various college organizations. This
scheme was put into operation and has
been a complete success, so it is seen
that at least during the last peried ol
years mentioned, the D. A. A. C. has
never had control of their own funds,
and has always been a subsidiary organization under the absolute control of the
Council. ;

Mr. McInnes has suggested that “‘five
years ago, the D. A. A. C, had its own
funds and carried on its own activities.”
This statement is absolutsly incorrect.
But supposing that his suggestion was
carried out and we returned to the system
in operation before the Council was formed how would he override the difficulties
which existed then, and would certainly
be a grave source ef trouble to-day, namely the independent collection of fees.
On the other hand, if the Council were
to collect and pay over a fixed proportion
of the fees collected to the D. A. A. C.
what guarantee would te had that this
money would be properly spent, and
that we would not have the L. A. A. C.
returning to the Council for more money,
The whole question in a nut shell is who
should be the governing body of student
affairs, the D. A. A. C, or the Council?

Mr. McInnes further says that since
the D, A. A. C. now “has neither funds
nor revenue with which to operate it is
forced to become a passive body.” This
statement is absolutely incorrect, The
D. A, A. C. has funds; without them

(Continued page 2, col, 3.)

   
   
 
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Akout two

 

Defeat Dartmouth 5-0.

year by defeating Dartmouth in a clean
fast game, but before a very small! crowd
about twelve of whom came from Dalhousie,
and in addition missed several wonderful
opportunities of further boosting the
score, particulary on one occasioa when

-s of the dancers| Nutty Wilson broke through everything

and then with an open net in front ot him
down he fell. So once again the score
was not indicative of the playing. Dalhousie should have won by a far greater
margin than they did. The combination has improved wonderfully and the
last goal was scored by a wonderful bit
o1 team play. To say that one man was
the best is a hard thing to do for every
man on the team played his best and
that best was brilliant. Lewis was air
tight, so were Wilson and Ernest. The
last two checked heavily all through the
game for the first time this year. Ernst
was a wirlwind and it was he who dented
the draperies for the final score on a
beautiful pass from Bates, Nutty was
the fastest he has ever been, scoring two
goals, one of them the nicest piece of
individual work seen this year, and Friday night he passed the puck. Bates
also netted two and his rapid rushes
almost netted him several more. Creighton was back checking and skating in his
old time form.
steadiest man on the team. Coleman
who has been rapidly improving excelled
himself Friday night. He was right there
all the time. Not a penalty was handed
out to either team and they deserved
none.

Dalhousie wen their first victory Jf the

They scored five clean goals

He was probably d

   

  

giae"
Site...

   

{NUIT

Re

“ill

   

| {11H

Five Cents The Copy

Dalhousie Wins

‘ Line up:—Lewis, Ernst, Wilson, Bates,
Creighton, Coleman, Waddington, Landstroth,

Intermediates.

Dal Intermediates also beat the
Harbour town boys 5-4. They certainly deserved their victory, for
they worked hard and played well

without a single let up. Two men Godsoe and Wickwire were forced to retire
at different stages of the game to get
their injuries doctored, but undér the
skilful ministration of Con Upham they
were able to continue. .The game was
fast throughout particularly in the final
period when with the score 5-4 Dartmouth was battling vainly for victory and
Dalhousie was battling tenaciously to
retain their margin of safety. The
first period ended 3-1. The second 5-4
The final went scoreless and incidently
produced the best hockey of the game.
McIntyre was the best, scoring twe goals,,
one an assist from Taylor and the other
from Godsoe. Taylor scored one in
a nice individual effort. Wickwire did
likewise and the fifth was got during a
mix up, the puck glancing off one of the
players sticks. This game was also very
clean no penalties being handed out.
Doull who was hurt in the Interfactulty
game was unable to play, so his place
was taken by Wickwire, who paired up
with MeCann the long defence man who
also. played a remarkably good game.
The whole team passed the puck and
time after time swept down the ice, three
and sometimes four abreast.

Line up:—Goal, Jakeman; Defence,
McCann, Wickwire; Forwards, McIntyre, Taylor, Andrews: Subs., Godsoe,
Grant.

 

Law loses toArts
2-1 Godsoe stars

ed InterFaculty League the Arts team

defeated the Lawyers who were minus
two of their players, Moore and Bissett
who for some reason refused to turn out.
The game was managed by “Big Jim”
Macdonald who handled the whistle
in a very competent manner. He handed
out one penalty to Redmond for tripping.
Except for this incident the game was
clean throughout. Ross scored both
goals for Arts on wing shots and McInnes
got the lone Law tally. Both teams
started out at a good clip and rush after
rush was made while the spectators, who
numbered about thirty, cheered wildly.
Only two faculty members witnessed
the contest Dean Read and another
member of the Law faculty being present.
It is gratifying to see the interest the
Law profs. take in their teams both Law
and Senior Dal teams having among
their supporters always one or more of
the professors from the North End of the
Forrest Building.

Both the goal tenders were very weak
but as the defences on both sides were
correspondingly strong the score remained at a low figure. For Law, Godsoe, Doyle, Gibbs and McInnes starred
while Ross, Wickwire and Redmond
were Art’s best.

Taking everything into consideration
it was a very good clean game, between
two evenly matched teams. One or two
rather doubtful checks were handed out
cn both sides but as the offending party
fell himself immediately afterwards it
was more a case of ‘‘have to” than deliberate illegal checking. There were
three 16 minute periods with a short
rest between. The first was
the second ended in a tie 1-1 while in the
third Arts won the game ky a single
goal. The Interfacilty games look as if
they were going to be very popular this
year, and it is entirely due to the work
of Bill Hewat o the D. A. A, C. assisted
by the different managers that it is in its
present state of efficiency.

sci reless

Manager Outhit had the following
men out Goal Richardson, Defence Godsoe, Fairbanks; Forwards, McInnes,
Doyle, Gibbs,; Subs, Hudson, McKay.
Manager Creighton lined his up as follows:—Goal, McKenzie; Defence, Murray, Wickwire; Forwards, Ross, McLean
Kedmond; Subs, Foley, Medonald,
Referee, Jim Macdonald. Time Keeper,
Bunker Murphy.

The students of King’s College will
present their annual play at the Majestic
Theatre on Feb. 10th, under the direction
of Prof. C., L. Bennet. The play chosen
" peeenare Shaw's ‘“‘You Never Can

€

  

In the first game of the newly organiz
Gh

Commerce Defeats
Engineers 1-0

 

_ On a disgraceful sheet of ice the Millionares filched a 1-0 victory from the
tired Theodolitians last Thursday at
the Dal. rink. It was a funny game to
watch but it was not hockey. That
would have been impossible under the
circumstances. The two opposing teams
ran, skid, slid and scrambled from one
end ef the ice to the other and then back
again. It was hardly possible to say
they skated considering the condition of
the ice. Though the balance of territory
goes to the Traders yet the scales tipped
but slightly in their direction. The
game started with Grant and McColl
doing some rapid mental calculation
which ended up in front of the Engineer’s
net. Beaton by the aid of his slide rule
pointed out to them their mistake and
Doull grabbing the loose rubber took a
quick survey of the rink, calling out to
Duvernet his findings in miles. By the
time Duvernet had brought them down
to inches, MacDonald had gently but
firmly relieved him of the puck. And
soit wenton. Rush after rush; calculation after calculation, some balancing
others not, figures flying in all directions
both human and numerical, until both
Beaton and MacDonald were working
feverishly on the same problem “How
many blue beans make hive’? At last
MacDonald with a triumphant flourish
of his war club yelled “tore” gave the
rubber a terrific belt and Beaton went
down struggling gamely with an Intergral
Calculus clinging around his nec«.

[In the second period Miller had considerable trouble balancing up his book
but with the assistance of Doyle and
Snow managed to make both ends meet.
It was in this period that Bob Doull
came into contact with Snow and quite
accidently got his nose broken, He was
forced to retire and Brown, who had just
returned from the University Office
with his number, took his place. The
period ended with the Millioniares taking
the gate receipts over to the Counting
House. In the final period the Commerce team showed great strategy by
hiding, both the puck and the player
behind the high ice hummocks that had
by this time appeared on the rink. The
kngineers hunted valiantly but the game
ended just as Bob Falconer discovered
jim MacDonald and the puck behind
a particularly large ice boy. Line ups:—
Commerce—Goal Miller, defence, Doyle
rand Snow; forwards, McColl, Grant,
MacDonald; subs, Harris, McDuff.

Engineers—Goal, Beaton; Defence,
Doull, Falconer; forwards, Robinson,
Duvernet, Lowe; sub, Brown.

Henry Godsoe refereed.

—
Work has begun on the erection of the
new Arts Building at McGill University,

 
 

 

Page Two

Vas, Avis H. Marswatt, 27.

gations which are of the greatest general interest to the student. The

_ Mita LG ila Shee = a
= * 7

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

be The Dalhousie @Gasette.” (Continued from page 1, col. 3).
(Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
Artaur L. Murpuy, 26,

they would be unable to carry on college
spert. Admittedly, they have net
absolute control over their funds, but the
Council has never yet refused a reasonable grant or budget presented by the
D. A. A. C. Just how ‘‘passive’’ the
D. A. A. C. is or ig to bez rests entirely
with their officers.

! think | am fair in saying that this
year the D. A. A. C. has received more
than their fair proportion of funds. It
is regrettable that the Council felt that
they did not have sufficient funds to
meet the complete demands for Badminton, fencing and track but a start
was made by getting approximately $30
each to these respective sports. but the
Council were unable to make any ap
ropriation for a swimming team, since
unds were not available.

The present Students’ Council cannot
be blamed for tha mismanagement of
some of last year's officers, ‘In taking a
basketball team to Truro when the
funds of the Council were almost nil
which resulted in putting that Council
in a more hopeless; financial condition.”
It is not on the syftem that the blame
should fall, but on the former administration of the system.

5. Mr. Melnnes states that the
Board of Governors were forced to look
into the finances of the Council. This
is somewhat misleading. If there was
inefficiency, in thissmatter, it was due,
not to the accountifig system, but in the
use made of it. Phe same ‘“‘proper
accounting system”’ has been in existence
for years, but the present Council have
seen that it is strictly followed, and the
Board of Governorsiiwere not “forced to
take action.” Furthermore, the present
Council took the initiative with the help
and advice of the advisory beard and
Mr. Harper, business manager of the
University in inaugurating an independent audit by persons not connected in
any way with the Council. Thus,
whatever justification there might have
been for Mr. McIndes’ statement in the
past, it is no way applies to the present
Council.

6. It is suggested that each student
should be assessed’ $10 instead of $7 as
at present. Were sich a suggestion to be
acted upon I think dat/would result in a
great abuse. To begin with, it is, In my
opinion, very poor policy to add to the
burden already incurred by each student.
Were a fee of $10 required then the
suggestion might be practical—but such
is not the case. »It) is unnecessary for
any governing or financial body such as
the Students’ Council to have more
money paid into itsitoffers for a definite
purpose than is really needed. If such
a state of affairs should becom: existant,
there is sure to,b2.4vanton wastefullness
and indiscretion in the disposal of surplus
funds. I have gong over the allotment
of funds with the;),finance committee,
and we are convinced that a fee of $7 per
student is sufficient for all purposes in a
normal year, I,think perhaps, a fee of
$10 might have been charged this year,
in view of all the liabilities falling on cur
finances, but ‘‘it easy to be wise atter the
event.”

I do not intend to indulge in any recrimination or in any bitter personalities,
but I have written), this solely as a rerefutation of charges made against the
bedy of which I am President, which
charges I think are, unfounded and for
the mest part withput justification.

Mr. McInnes, or,for that matter any
student of the University, has a_perlect
right to criticise the Students’ Council,
since it is composed of fallible human
beings who are on some occasions apt to
err, but may I suggest that when one
feels tempted to criticise, that he or she
will be positive of their facts and fair
in their assertions.

Sincerely yours,
A. BLENUS MORTON,
President ofthe Council of the
Students of the University.

Associate Editors:
Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.

Ronatp Hayes, 26.
Warren Pusticover, 26,
J. J. Lysons Arwoon, '28.

Financiai Editor:
Cuas, F, MacKenzie,
“18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

 

The Students’ Council.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  

We shall not endeavor to rise above our fellow creatures and,
looking down, fairly survey them. It might be inferred that we were
placing ourselves on a higher plane, which is of course impossible.

or shall we attempt to mingle amongst them and thus discern their
ways. We fear that our difficulties would be as great as the unchosen one essays to attend a meeting of the Council of the Students.
Rather, let us stand off at a distance and regard them as an aggrete..

a It is admitted by all that the aggregate is a cumbersome one and
we hope that before it disbands this term, steps will have been taken
to make its successor more compact. The present Students’ Council
is, however, efficient; the most efficient that has held office in many
years. Possibly we should use the term “Executive’’ because it is
that more select body which has been carrying the greater part of the
burden on its shoulders. Weare moved to admiration at the successful manner in which the Executive has borne its tremendous
financial strain. The council of the previous year had left many and
large unpaid debts. For all of these atonement was made. And
still there was money enough to support the rugby and hockey teams
in two of the longest trips they have ever made. It is true that these
trips were carried out with much smaller expenditures than in previous years. But is there any reason why the expenditures were
smaller, or rather why, in other years they were greater? It must
be due simply to lack of economy. Or we might call it extravagance.
When a group of college athletes spend their fellow students’ money
with utter disregard to interests other than their own, even.extravagance becomes a very mild word.

; In future years there is no reason why the travelling expenses of
our teams should not be just as low as they have been during the present session. And then there will.be-money.ia reserve which may be
nvested to bring really profitable returns. We shall be in a position
‘© hire capable professional coaches for our teams, a most outstanding need, the fulfilment of which would be of far greater value than
the most luxurious equipment, the most delightful trips.

Larger quantities of money should also be devoted to the organi
Gazette was probably more severely curtailed than any other college
utility, this year. This was simply because the bounds of the demands and requirements of The Gazette are the most elastic.

Its funds can be reduced and still further reduced, and it will
continue to exist. But it is also capable of greater expansion if its
finances permit. This also applies in almost the same extent to the
Glee and Dramatic Club.

We cast neither insinuations nor discredit upon the present
Students’ Council when we say that had economy been unnecessary
it might have gone on as did the Councils of previous years. Frugality was a requirement and it has been admirably coped with. But
we have learned a lesson, one greatly to our own advantage, which
we should heed again and again in years to come.

The Year Book.

Dalhousie is at last to have a year book. Through the endeavors of a few enthusiasts the project has developed from a vague
ety to the stage of a nearcertainty. A staff has been particaly formed and work is already begun.

There is no necessity to dwell on the desirability of such a publication. Its advantages are both manifold and evident. It will be a
volume of about one hundred and thirty pages. The workmanship
will be of the best quality obtainable and the book will be profusely
flustrated, both with line cuts and half tones. ;

[If the labor involved in the production of such a book is even|v
distributed among all the students—as it should and must be—it
will prove a light and enjoyable task. Nobody will be expected to
do a great amount of work. But if you are requested to do your bit
do it willingly and to the best of your ability. And remember that
“tomorrow” is not any longer than today. _In fact it often seems
shorter when it arrives. So do your share promptly and deliver the
editors and yourself from worry and trouble.

The Year Book will sell for the moderate sum of two dollars
($2.00). It will be of interest to every graduate and student and it
is confidently expected that on its appearance Convocation Week
a copy will find its way to the hands of every Dalhousian.

 

M r. Editor :—

My attention has been called to the
fact that the letter signed by Mr. Donald
McInnes, President, of the D. A, A, C.
regarding the “efficiency” or “‘ineffictency”’ of the present system of Student
Council gevernment has been censtrued
by some students as refi.cting on the
management of affnirs by the present
officers ot the Coungil.

[It is unfortunate! indeed that such a
construction should have beea flaced
upon the letter, as 1 know that nothing
was further from the mind of the writer.
However on reading the headlines ‘‘Has
the Students’ Council the Confidence of
the Students?’ offe must realize that
such an impression ¢buld easily be created
in the mind of a redder.

(Continued page 3, col. 1).

A Complete
Musical Service

Everything that Students
require in Music, including
small instruments Of every
desctiption. Sheet Music &
Music Books will be found

PHINNEY’S Limited

414 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

It has been said that in proportion

Read Your Own to her population and short history,
Writers Canada has produced more poets than

any other country, (let us admit that
ag of es are Very minor poets), and
; 1e fact that ninety plays 2 {Te
Last year in a play contest open to all | jp competition last belt es
Canada, ninety Pa were submitted] that she is beginning to find herself in
from all parts of the Dominion. The] the field of Drama also; and both facts
rize was won by Marjorie Reynolds of|should silence the ‘“wet-blankete’_

ancouver with a one-act play, a comedy, | too of .
entitled—The Connoisseur. often Canadian born—who keep on

 

;

telling us that Canada hasn't a literature. :

LT

 

 

February 4th, 1926

 

    

| King of”
CIGARETTES

 
   

15‘ per pkt.
29 for dd*

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

 
     

Manufactured 5 iy
mperal Tobacco Co of Canada, Limited.

JUNIOR—SENIOR. DALHOUSIE BOOK CLUB.

A minute but promising embryo in’
the form of a book club is in its first
stages of development. at Dalhousie. .
The membership is unlimited and is.
open to professors, students and public’
“We'll have the best of orchestras— alike.

McLean? Yes, he’s the man Each member pays an initial subAnd seven piéces, tos, you bet! scription of five dollars and with the

Afford it? Sure we can!” sum thus collected books are purchased
as the club desires. The books are reserved in the Studley Library for the
vse of the club and after a certain period
of time, possibly a year they become the
property of the University.

Some time ago the need of a literary
society was stressed in the editorial
columns of this paper. This club will
be very similar to the type suggested
and if the students become interested
they may derive great benefit from it.

You know the rest of this
ALPHA BETA seus =| Zo art Oxfords ™

It starts like this:
FOR MEN

“The time has come,” the Juniors said,
For us to give a dance.
We'll entertain the Seniors, what?
al be a splendid chance.”
‘

‘Now February twelve’s the date
It comes on Friday, too.

So everyone come right along—
And ‘everyone’ means you!”’

“You want a new and different dance?
A dance you won't forget?

Well come to Junior-Senior, then,
Here's one you won’t regret!”

 

 

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to keep up appearances.
These very men are the fellows you see
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords
and Spats.

OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Wallace Bros.

We also carry a nice line of Pictures \. 523 BARRINGTON ST
Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, etc. \ ‘ po
WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR

FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
Suit or
Over Coat

McDonald Music Co.
HALIFAX
to your measure. Best value
in Canada.

 

 

  

 

 

393 Barrington St.

MAJESTIC

WEEK OF FEB. Ist.

G. P. HUNTLEY
I

“THREE LITTLE
MAIDS”

THE MUSICAL COMEDY
SUCCESS

SEATS NOW ON SALE

STRAND

NOW RUNNING

MAE EDWARDS CO.

A Good Evening’s Entertainment
COME EARLY

-S_

 

 

 

 
    

See the many advantages

 
 

we offer over sending away

 
 

thousands of miles for your
clothes,

 
 

 

 

 
    

A

Clayton & Sons
HALIFAX

    
. ar? :

a.

    
  

a
“>

 

   
 
  
       
    
 
 
 

es
: a
‘
i

‘February 4th, 1926

f: f. (Continued from page 2, col. 3),

For that reason, and due to the fact
_ that Mr. McInnes refers to an occurrence
ing the past football season when
_ quick action wes necessary, I feel that
be should state that Mr. Morton, the
_ President of the Students Council was
present at numerous. interviews with
_ members of the Senate during the fcotball season, and was always ready to
- cooperate with the managers, when
o>: On the special occasion to

pe Becosmary.
_ which Mr. McInnes refers, I was notified
- three da

me

during

    
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
    
 
    
  
 
   

s before our first City League
, while two cf the members of cur
m were on the injired list, that certain prospective members of the team
Eveaic be inelegible owing to a Senate
resolution cf the previous day. I at
once called the Presidents cf the Students
"i ay au ” the o . Aik. ie intervie resident Mackenzie within an
ae hour, had a special meeting of the Senate
and asa result played the men in question for the first game. The action of
_ the Senate in refusing to allow us to
play those men in future games of foota and now reversing their decision
-__ and allowing them to play on the teams
is a matter of history with which most
___ of our students are familiar, but a matter
which is hard to explain.
JI simply wish to state through the
columns of the Gazette, in answer to the
headlines which appeared last week, that
in my opinion there is aksolutely no
question but that the officers and members of the present Students’ Council
have the confidence of the Students.
_ What discussion there. is to be on Mr.
cInnes’ letter, let it be strictly understood that the criticism invited is with
regard to the present ‘System’ and net
o “Personn.|” of the Students’ Coun
~ Be
- ae
ae. ie

ri 7
See
hi a
a?

« —

Yours truly,
: Cc. N, BISSETT.

 

Halifax, N.S.,
| January
_ Dal. Gazette.

In yotit issue of January 28th there
appeared a letter, written by Donald
acInnes, in which he stated, inter
alia, that if I “‘had waited for action on
the part of the Students’ Council the
hockey team would be without the
services of some of her most valued
fn,"
Wr 4 ahs sihate, foto. dene tree the
beginning of the hockey season | have
d the co-operation of the President of
the Students’ Council and in fact I think

Mao hna budisiin, a: Shesiee rchb sangre ord
-Gauvin & Gentzel
| Photographers

29/26.

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

Small
| But Important

YourR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat

may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLLar
you wear—it is the one article of

dress that stands out.
The collars we launder give you
Le confidence oe ree
grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no welldressed man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,

which is so acceptable.

L 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry
85 West St.

DO NOT FORGET HER
AT EASTER

Flowers are appropriate but not
any more so than a lasting useful
gift selected at BIRKS.

She will think of you every time
she wears tt.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS Ltd.
Barrington Street

 

it is due to his efforts that we have the
players, of whom Mr. MacInnes, speaks,
on the team.

When the question of the personell of
the hockey was first being discussed in
the fall, the suggestion was made that
the name of the team should be changed.

Resolutions, to this effects, were passed.

by the D. A. A, C. and the K, C, A. A. A.
and the suggestion was acted upon.

After the Christmas vacation I was
infermed that certain members of the
team could not play because they were
not bona fide Dalhousie students. A
meeting was arranged and those present
at the meeting were:—Professors Macneil and Wilson; Messrs, Morton and
Godsoe, representing the Students’ Council; G. W. 1 Creighton, Secretary D. A.
A. C. and the writer. After about an
hour's discussion the meeting adjourned
without anything definite being decided
upon. That same evening, after this
meeting, Messrs. Morton, Godsoe and
Creighton went to the President’s
residence and had a long interview with
him. This was on January 4th and on
January 7th the Senate gave an interpretation of the clause in the constitution
of the Council, by which we could play
the men in questicn. This interpretation has since been concurred in by the
Council.

I may mention that during the interval between the football and hockey
seasons, Mr. Morton had several ccnferences with members of the Senate, in
an endeavor to determine ways and
means by which we could play thes:
men. This was done quietly and few
in the University: knew that these
meetings were being held.

Mr. Morton has co-operated with me
since the hockey season began and I
think it is due to his action, much more
than mine, that we are able to play
Ernest and Coleman on our hockey team
this season.

Yours truly,
J. F. McMANUS.

To the Editor of the
Dalhousie Gazette;
Dear Editor:

My attention has been called to a
letter in the last issue of the Gazette,
entitled ‘‘Has the Students’ Council
The Conficenc- of The Students”?

I may say that as far as the basketball management is concerned, the Council thru it’s present officers has done
everything possible when asked to cooperate, with matters concerning basketball. Necessarily owing to the lack of
funds there was a curtailment in our
grant this year, but I feel that we re
 

itiw*t*

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is
A Real Science

Now

<ooertc: tifercetan nm oc

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes,

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

CASINO

NEXT WEEK
MON., TUES., WED.

“THE LADY WHO LIED”.

with
LEWIS STONE

and
VIRGINIA VALI

THUR., FRI., SAT.

“STEEL PREFERRED”’

Look at this cast!

WILLIAM BOYD, VERA REYNOLDS,
HOBART BOSWORHT, CHARLIE
MURRAY, WM. LONG,

BEN TURPIN.

  

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

 

 

   
 
    

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ceived a just appropriation, and with
the same, will be able to carry on the
basketball activities to as great an extent as has been done’in past years.

Te thos2 students who have not been
following the results%of the games as
clearly as they might have, it may be o
interest to know that the intermediate
team has so far won the three games in
which they have played. As for the
Seniors they have lost) Lut one game by
ths narrow margin jof three points.
This I believe is a ver) creditable showing and augors well for a most successful
season,

Yours very truly,
:

J, AS UPPER,
Manager of the Dal. Basketball Team.
|
To the Editor cf the Gazette;
Dear Sir: .

In the Gazette of last week there appeared a letter with the heading, ‘“‘Has
The Students’ Council the Confidence of
the Students’? Thistis not a question
for me to answer, but in the second
section of the letter are some Slightly
misleading statements to which I am rather inclined to reply.

The dispute which arose between
students and the Senate over the playing
of King’s men on the University hockey
team is well known té everyone, but is
better known to thoseof us who were so
unfortunate as tv take part in it. Ata
special meeting of the:D. A. A. C. called
for the purpose it was proposed by the
President of that orgatization to change
the name of the Dalhonsie Hockey team
to Dalhousie—Kings,! on motion and
approved of the meeting this change, in
so far as the D. A. AilC. was concerned
then went into effect!

Immediately afters the holiday the
Senate intimated tothe Council that
they were opposed touthe action of the
D. A. A. C, and at aimeeting attended
by the President and) Secretary cof the
Council, Prof. Wilsom, Prof. Macneill,
the manager of the -hockey team and
mysalf, (The Presidentjof the D. A. A. C.
did not attend) the matter was considered,
and Prof. Macneill ‘pointed out that
under the eetoretatten of the constitution of the Council of the Students a
King's divinity student was not elegible
to play for Dalhousie satid. that the Senate was not pleased with the change in
name which they considered. merely a
subterfuge. 4 ,

After meetings with President MacKenzie and with membeérs of the advisory
committee it was agreed that the Senate
should consider the imterpretation to be
put cn Article 8, Sectian 12 of the constitution :. the a eee ser
section reads, ‘‘No person shall. compete
in any ‘contest 48a’ Dalhousie représentative unless he is at the time a registered
student at the Univérsity.”

Following the’ irieeting’ of the Senate
the Secretary of the Council received a
letter informing him, that with approval
of the council the Senate would interpret
this clause to allow that divinity students
from Pinehill and Kings to represent
Dalhousie. The Ccurcil agreed to this
new ruling and notice to this effect was
forwarded to the Senate.

Thus it may be seen that the Council
has played its part and to my knowledge
it’s officers have had to do the work
which should ordinarily have been done
by those in other organizations.

It might also be well to add that thre
is in existence a very active advisory
committee to the D. A. A. C. consisting
of Dean Reid and Prof. Wilson, both
members of the Senat-, the result of
whose efforts to read improve athletics
at Dalhousie are evident to all.

Yours very truly,
WILFRED CREIGHTON
Sect. DAA. C.

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore
BOOKS, ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and College Text Books
Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

f have consented to take charge

 

Glee Club Com.
mittee Chosen

The members of the committee who
of the
Dramatic Society Play this
Bennet, Chair
Glee and
years, are—Prof. C. L.

man; Mrs. G. F. P2arson, Major P. E,
Prideaux.
The Dramatic activities of Prof.

Bennet are well known to Dalhousians.
Last year he produced an evening of
Drama by his English 9 class with
gratifying success. This year, in addition to the Dalhousie Play, he is producing the King’s Drama, and also planning
for another English 9 evening. As an
actor be made his debut before a Dalhousiz audience last night and added t»
his already high laurels. The Glee
Club committee are very pleased that
Prof. Bennet is able to find time to act as
Chairman of the Committee of Production. :

Mrs. G. F. Pearson comes to us as 2
tried and true friend. Coach of th:
last two Dalhousie theatre productions;
Honerary President and Adviser cf the
Glee Club, during tw? of the most successful years of its history; her name ona
Committee of this kind is well known by
all the students, to stand for a production
»0f dramatic and musical excellence. As
an advisor Mrs. Pearson will be of inestimakle value to all concerned with the
production of the play.

Major P. E. Prideaux is .utstanding as
an amateur actor and producer of plays
in Halifax. He has preven himself one
of the truest friends of the Glee Club
throughout the whole year in many ways.
The thanks are entirely to him that the
Glee Club is able to dispense with mats
as stage fittings. The Major’s remarkable ability as a ccach will be one of the
biggest factors toward the success of the
play.

The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic
Society have decided to play Sir Charles
Hawtree’s ‘‘The Private Secretary’’
during convocation week.

Page Three

 

Engineering Notes

—_—_ — —__ _. —__.

The Class Party.

C. P. R. reports on the class party as
follows:—

Well! our sleigh drive is over, and
while with the majority of people we
used to believe that ‘‘Anticipation is
greater than realization’', we now claim
that in regard to Engineer's parties at
any rate, realization beats all.

We set sail from the gym about 8 p. m.
on January 28th and while it may not go
down in history as did the sailing of
Columbus, yet Albert says we were more
comfortable than Columbus, because
even if Columbus did have a fur coat, he
was the sole occupant of it. Two sleighs
were used during the trip (both at once)
and both were packed like into the sardine
can but in spite of the fact, joy reigned.

After a drive to the Wayside Inn, we
returned to Harry Bell’s home where
coffee and sandwiches were served by
Mrs. Bell assisted by Mrs. Copp and
Mrs. Theakston, not to mention the
able assistance given by Prof, Theakston.
Then the fun started, some of us or I
should say most of us danced, others
listened to the radio in spite of Harry's
sworn declaration ‘‘its no good to-night,”
but Albert suggested that it might be
better with the light out and supported
by several others the deed was done.
Walter even managed to get a stiff neck
through too much craning over the
dials (?). And thus the dance went on
until 11.30 when ice-cream and cake
were served. The music supplied by
Norm. Fraser, “Johnny” Thurrot, and
Bud MacLennan improved as the evening went on, and at the close due to the
magnetic effect of their art everybody
was happy.

_But as all good things must end, so
did our party, and, thanks to Mrs. Bell
and Harry, there is no doubt in the minds
of all the exponents of the drafting art
that it was the best party in the society's
history,

 

 

JUNIOR - SENIOR DANCE
FEBRUARY 12th.

This promises to be the best dance of the season.

Come and have a good time.
McLean’s 7 piece Orchestra. ©”

GYMNASIUM, STUDLEY, 8.15 p. m.

 
 
  

DOUBLE TICKETS, $2.00.

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

SpecitAL Bospspinc PARLORS
For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

 

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harr Curtine is sure
satisfy. Lapres’ Harr Curttine in all
styles; also Curntinc, SHAmMPoorna. and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

41 Sackville St.

Phone S 4780

‘‘Eversharp’’ Leads
FREE

We fill your pencil and give an EXTRA
Box FREE with every ‘‘Eversharp”
Pencil this month

50c UP

KELLYS Ltd.
GRANVILLE STREET

Cable Address: “McINNES"”

Barristers, Sonicrrors &c.
HALIFAX, N. S.

‘

 

McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C, Macdonald, K.
Stuart Jenks, K. C. FP. B. A. Chi
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. E. MacKay

 

Music by Alla

SINGLE TICKETS, $1.25. |

  

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices. :

Light Lunches and Ice Cream

ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

 

HIGH

FAI
CLASS RICED

JEWELRY fFAlRlyY

é H. C. HENDERSON

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville

 

 
 

ea

og) ia a

a eet =

—

Bera mee
e

 

- rh Ap
ra a
; a

 

- draw.

Cates Seen atthe College
SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

_ JO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W. F. Page
HALIFAX

Dal second Team
Wins

Girls Beat Trinity Church 25-2.
Alice Atherton Stars.

 

Dal completely outclassed the Trinity
girls in a fast game at the ““Y" Wednesday week. It was not till near the end
of the final frame that Trinity scored,
in. fact they had hardly more than a
dozen shots at the basket all evening.
The good work of the Dal centers and
backs was partially responsible for this,
but it was the two forwards that had
control of the ball for the best part of the

e. Dal’s shooting was badly off
or with the number of chances that the
ot the score should have been closer to
0 mark. Though they played a re
markably good game and are deserving
of praise, dies will have to speed up and
tighten up their play and in particular
improve their shooting, if they hope to
beat the Y. W. C. A.

In the second period Dal played her
two subs. Miss Phinney and Miss M.
Thompson. The first named as side
center played remarkably well, but was
a little two anxious at times which resulted in her passing the ball to a well
guarded team mate while the other one
was completely free. Miss Thompson
as sub forward appeared a trifle nervous
and was consequently slower and more
erratic in her passing that night, when
compared to her playing in practices.
The rest of the team require, like every
team does, more and constant practice.
Miss McCurdy at center would be far
more effective if she jumped a little
higher. A good team however, looking
very pretty and striking in their new
yellow and black uniforms, and capable of
upholding Dal’s name‘is this league.

Line up:—Atherton 15, Thompson 10,
McCurdy, McVail, Freeman, Wood,
Phinney, McKay and M. Thompson.

Mrs. Sterling refereed.

—_ —

 

Interfaculty

Hockey

Medicine 2—Dentistry 2.

 

—

 

The Medical-Dental fracas ended in a
tie at the Dal Rink last Saturday afternoon. While territory was about even
Dentistry showed the better form, and
should have held the lead which they
established early in the game. The first
period was all Dentistry. Tupper on the
defence being particularly effective in
fact, he was the most outstanding man
on the ice. He scored the Dents first
oal and a few minutes later Sullivan
is team mate followed his example.
The period ended 2-0 for Dentistry and
found them trying hard for another
counter.

In the second the Meds came to life
and led by Manager Beardsley they gave
the Dents a hot bombardment. Beardsley ran in two counters at this part of
the game and the score was tied. But
the Meds didn’t let up at all and Oldfield
was given plenty of work to do for the
test of the time. In the third the play
was about even; both teams finding the
pace too fast forthem. The game slowed up, but nevertheless remained exciting.
The whistle found the two of them
fighting grimly in center ice. No overtime was played so the game stood a
Beardsley and ‘Tupper were
by far the best and most hard working
men,

Line up:—Med:—goal, Morash; defence, McLean, Doull; forwards, Beardsley, Murphy, Townsend; subs, Grant,
Giddings, ]. Macdonald.

Dents:—Goal, Oldfield, defence, Tupper, Macdonald; Forwards, Sullivan
Taylor, Cragg; subs, Duxberry, Isreal,
Sproule, McLeod.

Bill Wickwire referee.

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «2 Potted Plants

We make Fi Desians,
gles Wareana Bova

Bouquets. We
also do Taste Decoratine. We
of the

the
T. F. D. / We can wire

Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

 

ee eo ee fait gOS eee

et OR 2 om es OO ee see ee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

February 4th, 1926

Se SPORT NEWS Se

Sportitorial.

‘*There was silence supreme—
Not a shriek, not a scream.”

Which just about describes the reoting squad at the Dal-Dartmouth game.
We might mention that someone in last weeks Gazette made the statement that t! e
D, A. A. C. “‘is forced to become a passive body.” We are not in a position to state
whether they are ‘‘forced” or not, but we-can truthfully say that as far as rooting is
concerned they are passive. It is the D. A. A. C. that makes arrangements concerning cheer leaders and so on in football but as the year passes they tecome more
and stal passive. It might be well to state here also that the rooting squad which
turned out for the Dal.-Wand’s. game, and was incidentally the largest that has
witnessed a hockey match for years, has not encouraged them by any efforts of the
D,A. A.C. True the name was used and permission was granted for that, but beyond this the entire burden of interviewing the Arena management, making terms
for a reserved section, zetting tickets and arranging for their sale, signs printed,
tickets marked, ushers, etc., in short the eatire work of such an undertakiag, and it
is by no means a small one, fell upon the shoulders of the Editer and Sports Editor
of the Gazette. It was an experiment and proved more than successful. Since

then the Gazetie has simply waited and watched the attendance at the next two 
hockey games. The difference is astounding. At the Dal.-Crescents game there
were aot more than thirty, at the Dartmouth game a round dozen. ‘Twelve students, when two games before there was over 150. But when twelve students are all
that will turn out to a game then there is somethiag radically wrong somewhere.
The team must have support and should get it, even though they are beatea in
every game. The rooters are there to cheer their team on to victory and it is no
argumeat for staying away because Dal. has been unfortunate this year. It shows
pour sportsmanship to say the least, for nothing is easier than cheering a team that
is piling up victory after victory. it is when the team is defeated that the good
sports come into evidence. And surely there are more than 12 sports at Dalhousie.

very student at Dalhousie prides himself on his good sportmanship but not every
student, sad to -elate ,practices what he preaches. If you don’t want to support a
College team get together and withdraw it from the league.

But that is the last thing the students would think about. All the same
they act as though it is the very thing closest to their mind.. Tosa, they are uninterested and discouraged is untrue. They are oaly too anxious the read the
paper account the next moraing and as for being discoi raged, what about the team.
Hasen't the team found more grounds for discouragemeat thaa anybody else?
But if they were discouraged they dida’t show it agaiust Dartmouth the other
night. They showed them that they are a team to ve proud of. Nota wianing
one perhaps but a game, sporting team that should be supported even if the studeats have to crawl on their hands and knees to see them play. They go out on
the ice and battle their way to a well earned victory, take hard knocks, but come
up smiling, get terrible tumbles but still keep on playing. Not for their own honor
and glory (becatse this year there has beea little) do they do this, but for you, for
every Dalhousie student, for their College. And only a few Joyal students tura out
to encourage them and show their appreciation aad College spirit.

It is no use begging you to come out. If that is aecessary Dalhovsia.1s hide
your heads in shame, for you have thea shown you are indeed unworthy of her
aame. But thank Heaven it is not necessary, for the Dal.-Wanderers game showed that. What is necessary is organization anc advertisemeat. And it is here the
D. A. A. C’s. duty begins. They must, simply must, do something about it, for it
is the crying need at the present moment. They should take over the work the
Gazette started ia their name, organize their rooting squad, see that the cheer leaders
are there and that there is, most important of all, somebody to lead. Empty beaches doa’t as a rule go far te encourage a team.

Next to the students in laxity or rather more so comes the professors. As well
as we cana remember there wasn’t a single one at the last two games. There is ota
Professor in Dalhousie that woulda’t feel proud if he was told chat he was the most
popular one in the University. Considered so perhaps by students, but those
studeats are the men and professors of tomorrow and such a popularity seldom
dies. We don’t intend to meation names but the fact is that the Professors who
are most popular today are those who turn out to the games and support THEIR
teams, And what is more it doesn’t lower their dignity one iota. On the contrary
they are respected all the more for it, for what student won't raise his hat respectfully to a good sport, and what student won’t work his head off when he is taught
by such men. ‘To take one coacrete example. The Professors in the Faculty of
Law are 100% good sports. When the results of the Christnnas Exams, came out
what did we find? Not more thaa two studeats failed in two €xams., mone in more,
and in one year there wasn’t a single soul with a pluck in any subject. The best
average results in the College. These are facts, not propaganda. These Professors also get as much respect as is possible to give any man, professor or otherwise, and whole hearted respect at that.

As we poiated out before a good sport is one who plays and works in a sportsmanlike manner. And if you can’t play, the next best thing is to encourage it. 5o
let us all make, as our New Years Resolution, somewhat late perhaps, but better
late than never.‘‘] am going to play every game I can and play it well for in that way
will | become a man, but if I can’t play 1am goiag to watch MY, College play and
cheer her on to victory by at least my preseace.”’

SPORT TIME TABLE.
Fri. 5th Dal. vs. St. George’s, Pine Hill vs. ‘‘Y” at the ‘‘Y", 8.380. Intermediate
Basketball.
Sat. 6th Dal. vs. Wand’s., at the ‘‘Y’, 7.80, Senior Basketball. Rooters
needed,

Interfaculty Basketball and Hockey in the afternoon.
Tues. 9th Dal. vs. Wand. at the Arena, 8.15. Boost the attendance and help
Dalhousie.

 

Interfaculty Med. 17—Eng. 20.

Basketball

In the final and best game of the afternoon the Meds fell before the [-ngineers
but only after a hard sew-saw fight.
t ewat was the outstanding player on the
Law 18—Commerce 9. floor while Brown and Curry of the

 

Engineering Squad ran him a very close
second. It was a very exciting game
and the outcome was in doubt until the
last second.

Line upt— Medicine. Baird 1, McLean,
Paine, Phillips 2, Hewat 8, Doull 4,
Beardsley 2, Grant.

Law won its second game of the Interfaculty league in a rather convincing
manner. It was an interesting game to
watch, but was inclined to lag a bit at
times. Bill Richardscn, though he was
high man for Law, spoiled a lot of chances
for his team by persistently trying long
shots which usually missed the basket.
Coughlan celebrated his birthday by
playing a very steady game on the Law
defence. Line up:—Law—Richardson 8
Doyle 4, Mitchell 2, McInnes 4, Coughlan, Outhit.

Commerce :—Snow, Grant, Harris, McColl 2, Miller 8, McDonald 2, Matheson Tinie Lille [Mididel! ie proving a

Engineers:—Brown 10, Curry 6, Mcmost popular entertainment. A good

Keagan 4, Lowe, Allen, Roper.
Mr. Stirling refereed.

tes ee

Majestic Notes

musical comedy is, unfortunately, a distinct innovation in Falifax and all lovers
of light epera, should not fail to see this
production. Every member, from start
to finish is pretty. Some are light and
spappy, others more winsome but all most
celightful as rendered by the capable
principals. ‘“Three Little Maids’’ will
run the balance of the week, only.

The first three days of next week the
Majestic presents ‘‘Lover of Camille”
from the stage play ‘“‘Deburan,” by
Sacha Guitry, It stars that inimicable
couple, Monte Blue and Marie Prevost.
Monte Blue play the part of a clown and
the play, in place reminds one of Rigeletto

Dentistry 12—Arts 28.

Arts completely swamped the Dental
boat and it was only after Arts had
secured a substantial margin and let
up in their playing that Dentistry were
able to score. The first period ended
14-0 in the Studley men’s favor.

Line up:—Arts: Ross, 12, Keating
8, B. Clark 6, Hoskins 2, E. Clark, Jardine, Hood,

Dentistry:—Oldfield 6, Sullivan 4,
Duxberry 2, Godsoe, Dobson,

Senior Basketball

Dalhousians over St. Georges 48-16,
Forwards Star.

Dalhousie Senior Pasketball Team
had it all over St. George’s like the proverbial tent last Saturday night at the
7 en Bradshaw of the “Y” refereed
in his usual efficient and impartial manner. Dalhousie excelled in every department of the game and were at no time in
the slightest danger. If the Tenete
raises the ban on the members of the
team, even if only on Brown, then there
is not the slightest doubt that Dal
would capture the City League title,
the only one she has a chance to gain
this year. Dal's combination was good,
her blocking was good and her shooting
was excellent, but she is still sadly in
need of a center. If she gets Brown
then it should be Dalhousie’s night
against the Wanderers on Saturday
night. For Dalhousie the two ‘‘MacS”’
were by far the best, collering 45 points
between them. The work of Smith
and Doyle as guards was of the best and
the small score for St. George’s is entirely
due to this pair.

Line up—Doyle,
Wilson, McLennan 24,
Langstroth 1.

Smith 2, Moore,
McLeod 21,

————

intermediate
Basketball

Dal Trims R. C. A. 17-14.

Dal Intermediates remained unbeaten
by winning 17-14 over the fast R. C. A.
team at the Miliatary Gym. Tuesday
week, The-game throughout was fast
and clean, but the pace lagged towards
the end, as the size af the floor began
to tell on the speed ofboth teams. The
hugh floor told particularly on, Dal.
since they are forced to play with only
one sub. The first period opened fast
and continued so throughout. The
closeness of the play inthis period can
be easily seen’ by the fact that Dal.
emerged with only .02 point lead. the
smallest they have had this year. Brown
and Jones presented’a stone wall defence
to the attacking soldiers, reptrlsing attack
after attack and meeting every one~of
their strategic moves with others more
strategic.

Sperry at center played his usual gape
and while not getting any baskets scored
3 points out cf a possible four on fouls.
Hewat who is going better every game
collected 6 points and was thereby
high man forcing Bill Clark to play
second fiddle with 4 points to his credit.
Both Hewat and Clark were rather
lost on the big floor, but under the circumstances played excellently. Miller
as sub, found the floor much more to
his liking his lightning speed standing
him in good stead and netting him the
other 4 points of the Dal total. The
baskets in the Military Gym are very
unsatisfactory being on movable standards which were anything but stationary
and had to be continually adjusted.
This fact coupled with starting defence
work on both sides kept the score down.

Line up—Hewai 6, Clark 4, Miller 4,
Sperry 3, Brown, Jones.

WINNERS From The

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods

HALIFAX 2

N. S.

 

 

George F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

“ALSO

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE

Optometrist & Optician Y. M, C. A, Bldg.

Dalhousie Loses
to Crescents

Cie

Ernst and Lewis star.

Showing considerable improvement
since their last appearance the Dal
Kings team fought a game uphill battle
which did not however end in victory
but neither could it be called a bad
defeat. Not once throughout the game
did they cease trying and their combination showed vast improvement. Time
after time the puck was passed across the
entire forward line, but their efforts were
too often blasted by the referee’s whistle
calling an offside play. Taking the merits
of the game into consideration the score
should have been in Dalhousie’s favor,
Not by much but in her favor nevertheless. It was just a matter of who got
the breaks and who were quickest to
take advantage of them. No doubt
in the world but that the Crescents had
more than their share and it was their
capacity to take advantage of them that
gained the victory. Dal’s forwards were
a little weak in shooting and it here that
they miss Haslem whose  bullet-like
drives have more than once sagged the
draperies for a Dalhousie score. Their
failure to try and break through the
defence before shooting, throughout the
game and particularly in the initial
frame, lost them many chances of scoring
for Hanrahan is practically impregnable
en shots from outside the defence.

The defence while they turned in a
stellar game are still a little shy on the
checking. Lewis played wonderfully,
though six goals were scored on him
they were almost impossible ones and he
more than did his share. Nutty also
played well. His rushes and shots
would have netted him several goals if
he Had been playing against anybody
but the Crescent goalie. Ernst is going
faster every game. The big King’s man
openéd up a brand of hockey that night
that has boosted his stock 100%. His
checking is als6 becoming more apparent,
Bates was good.) He always is for that
matter, but Tuesday found him with a
pair of poorly sharpened skates which
cut down his speed considerable and
caused him t6 fall several times. Creighton is getting back to his old form once
again and played a remarkably good
game, checking and rushing with all he
had jn him. Coleman though somewhat
slow} more than made up for this fault
by his game willing style of play. Art
was always on the job. Langstroth and
Waddington were both fairly effective
when they got on and deserve credit
along with the entire team for the game
fight they put up. Fabie Bates scored
Dal’s lone tally on a beautiful pass from
Creighton about half way through the

second period.
Line up:—Lewis, Wilson, Ernst, Creighton, Bates, Coleman, Langstroth,

McIntyre.

intermediate Game

Dal’s Intermediates fell before a
Crescent onslaught to the tune of 7-0,
after the senior game last Tuesday night.
Like the Senior team they were the
victims of many breaks which their
opponents were by no means slcw in
taking advantage of. Dal had the
margin of territory throughtout the
game particularly in the final period
when it was only the excellent goalk
tending of the Crescents that saved them.
The Dal combination was rather weak
and the comparative strength of the
Crescents in this respect gained for them
the victory.

The first period ended with a score of
2-0 against Dal. Dal opened the second
with a bang and gave the Crescents a
few unpleasant minutes. But here as
in the first they lacked combination and
had two more goals scored on them.
In the third Crescents played a defensive
game, but still managed to win in another
tally. In this period Dal was attacking
continuously and had easily the margin.
Bob Doull who was elected captain played the most consistent game for Dal,
but Taylor and McIntyre gave him a
close run. Godsoe also played a fair
game but like the rest of the team that
that night was weak on the passing.

Line up:—Goal, Jakeman; Defence,
McCunn, Dovll; Forwards, McIntyre,
Taylor, Munroe; Subs, Wickwire, Grant,
Godsoe.

Waddinfton,

When in Town

GET THE

Three Essentials

1. Pure Food and Candy

2. Prompt and Courteous
Service

3. Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. _—_ Ges, Alexander

 

 
