    
  
    
 
    

n
ams
Pa

year there has been a feeling amongst

 
  
 
  

h Pt ui
-. ‘ ol

 

7
_ @
 §

; —

lear Mr. Editor.
Since the beginning of the current

a number of the students in various
‘faculties of the college that the Students
ancil as at present constitited is a

machine, which is not only too cumber
P some for active operation but is at the

      

ila

: ;
} s

  
 
 
 
 
  
     
 

r

  
 
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
    
   
  
  
 
 
   
     
  
 
   

#

ale

cam be
Brot

ate Pg

Pal ‘—
on

a

i

7 . :
i ,

| et

ae
an —
a
é

last fall
tive members of the football team.
-Negetiations were carried

times directly between
_ ‘Managers and the Senate.

S er time failing in many of the objects
for which it was originally formed,
_ This letter is written nct with the

intent to unjustly criticize the present
Officers of the Council but to point out
many of its weaknesses and thereby
possibly bring about seme much needed
Temedizs. . ry

(1) The present students council is
too large. we!

If the writer's impression is correct, the
present representation is one member for
every twenty-five students, and with the

student body very soon approaching the
one thousand mark it is clearly seen
that the Council is far too large.

I might suggest that in order that the
red! be always a small compact
body each faculty have a_ fixed representation but not according to its
numbers. Thus the Council might consist of two members from Law and Dentistry, four from Medicine, seven from

\rts, and one from Commerce and

ngineering. We would have then a
Council of seventeen members (very
much in contrast with the present
bulky Council) and one in which the
number is permanent. |

(2) One of the primary functions
of the Students’ Council is that it acts
as an intermediary between the Student
body and the Senate.

It is found that when an acute prom arises between these two bodies

ats’ Council is wholly inefficient.
mple of Pus was seen When early
the governing authorities were
osed to the playing of some prospect
OU

  

 
   
  

on, at all
the football
The football
L. C. Manager did not care to act
through the Students’ Council owing to
the fact that he felt it was useless in a
case which required prompt action and
also from the fact that it did not meet
as a body till about the middle of October
over a month after college opened.
‘his was further exemplified when a
similar dispute arose as to whether
King’s men could play on Dalhcusie

 

Alberta Students
Don Gowns

(From “The Gateway”).
Distinctive Dress Makes Appearance.

 

 

Distinctively Attired, Students Feel Selfconscious, but Pleased with
Themselves.

 

The academic gown makes its bow (or
obably, more correctly its rebow) in
the halls and lecture rooms of our University. Tuesday morning marked the appearance of seniors in their brand new and
very smart looking distinctive dress.
_A few appeared rather self-conscious,
and most tot wore at ease in the com
pany of anoth:r gowned companion, but

the ice ys been broken.
__ The Faculty of Law seems to be producing the greatest proportion of gowned
students. few members of the other
faculties are displaying their newly acquired distinction. Only a limited number of gowns are at present available,
it is understood, but the class has more
on order and due to arrive shortly,
Your reporter was soon aware of the
ict that all gowns are not the same—
ere is a difference. Enquiry elicited
the information that the undergraduate
gown that those who have not attained
toa degree are permitted to wear, differs
from the Bachelor’s gown, This diflerence is in the sleeve. The Bachelor's
gown has a flowing pointed sleeve, while
the undergraduate denotes his lesser
a in a straight-cut sleeve to the

We

    
 

 

“ok Buoy soy 78H{ 5]

+

ee _ m - es
ee 7 a Par) a de ale eA te
i a

Has the Students’ Council the

 

     
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
  

hockey teams.
on the part of the hockey officials the
Senate was forced to take a definite
stand as to the personnel of Dalhousie
teams.

| If the hockey manager had waited
for action by the Students’ Council
Dalhousie would have been without the
services of some of her most valued
players.

As this letter is not whclly a critical
one, but one (it is hoped) of some constructive nature I would suggest a permanent committee, chosen, either from
the students or alumni to be always on
hand for the purpose cf acting in such
disputes.

3) The Students’ Council has shown
a great deal of inefficency over the operation of the present rink. Last year it
was felt that an outdoor rink was a
necessity and as a consequence the rink
'was built at tremendous expense. This

ear the Students’ Council instead of
Peaebiiue by last years experience went
ahead with the rink and we now find that
the building and upkeep for the present
year will be some hundreds of dollars.
above their estimates which will result
in a curtailment of funds for many
societies and an undesirable check on
their activities.

If the Students’ Council had been
sufficiently far seeing and business-like
a proper committee would have been
formed and they should have seen that
their costs would come within their
estimates; and if not a further assessment
should have been levied or'the rink should
not have been built.

(4) The Students’ Council is gradually taking over the management of many
of the societies that should be in the
hands of their executives. This is probabiy best“seenin ‘thevcase of the D. A.
A. ee
At one time this body was extremely
active but at the present time owing to
the fact that it has neither funds or revenue with which to operate it is forced
to become a passive body. os

As things are at the present time It is
not the D. A. A. C. which plans schedules
or trips for the various teams, but it is in
fact the Students Council. They decide
whether a team goes to St. John or
Truro,

It was hoped this year that the D. A.
A. C. could extend its activities by restarting a switming team and buying

(Continued on page A, col. 1.)

The W. H. Dennis
English Prize

Joseph Howe Prizes for Poetry.
James DeMille Prizes for Prose.

 

The attention of candidates for th se
prizes is drawn to the following regulations adopted by the Senate to govern the
awards :—

1. Candidates for these prizes must be
registered in at least three classes in the
University.

2. Candidates may submit more than
one poem for the Joseph Howe prize,
The poems may be epic, lyric or dramatic,
and they may be of any length.

3. Candidates for the DeMille prize
may submit more than one manuscript.
The term “essay” is to be liberally conatrued to include short stories and descriptive sketches as well as essays proper
upon any literary, historic or philosophic
subject. Essays proper should be about
‘the length of an ordinary review article,
i. €., Of between 4,000 and 6,000 words;
but originality of thought, freshness of
treatment, style, ete., will be chiefly
considered by the Jury of Award.

4. Candidates are recommended to
choose Canadian themes.

5. Three typewritten copies of each
composition must be sent in by the
competitor. These compositions must
be typewritten, upon one side of the sheet
only, .They must not be signed by the
candidate, but a pseudonym is to be
typed at the end of each manuscript.
They are to be accompanied by a sealed
envelope bearing on one corner in typewriting the same pseudonym, and. addressed in typewriting to the Jury of
Award, Joseph Howe English Poem
Prize, or, James DeMille English Essay

Prize, as the case may be. The envelope:

| shall contain in typewriting the pseudcnym, the titles of the poems or essays, as

ene case may be, and the candidate's
name. : . 4

By action almost entirely

   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
     

Award,

in
,muneration,

    

4

RTT weeps

~

ree

%

ace er

  
 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 28th 1926

oer"
ta

iene
—
a
—
=
4

 

Five Cents The Copy

 

 

RESULTS.

It is with pleasut that the Gazeite
notes the preparatiéas being made in
the Gymnasium fof the placing of a
hatch over the stage! as suggested in the
issue of January 14th.

We have no douwt that the other
proposals will be carried out with equal
thoroughness, if not with promptitude.

$2 ee

TO THE GEOLOGY LAB.
(with apologies to the gentleman who
wrote ‘‘The Rosary’).

The hours I spend in thee, drear spot
Are as a pile of rocks to me;
I paw 'em over every one apart,
Geology! Geology!

Each hour two more, and likely three,
To try my brain that’s out o' luck;

1 peer around each réck and there | see,
A phenecryst is stu >k!

O lava flows that twité and turn!
O bedding plans with anticline!
[ poke and scrape atd strive at last to
learn
Ee sone a line—6n each to string a
ine!

WANTED, A DRAMATIST.
(A Chance For English 9).

The committee of final award in the
John Golden American play contest for
1925, has announced that of the. thousands of plays submitted, there are not
three which they felt justified in presenting to Mr. Golden for production as
submitted. To avoid calling the contest a failure, they have selected three
plays and sent them ‘to the authors, with
instructions tO revise and returii to the
committee.

 

 

The HalifaxOverseas
Club Essay Prize

This prize is to be awarded to the
writer of the best essay on a subject
either historical or critical, concerning
the relations of Overseas Dominions to
and as constituents of the British Commonwealth, the prize being given by the
Halifax Branch of the Overseas League
with the object in view of stimulating the
study of and an interest in the closer
relations of the constituent parts of such
British Common wealth.

Candidates for this prize must be
registered in at least three classes in the
University.

Candidates may submit more than one
essay. Such essay must not exceed
5,000 words.

Three typewritten copies of each composition must be sent in by the competitor. These compositions must be
typewritten, upon one side of the sheet
only, They must not be signed by the
candidate, but a pseudonym is to be
typed at the end of each manuscript.
They are to be accompanied by a sealed
envelope bearing on Gne corner in typeWriting the same pseudonym, and addressed in typewriting to the Jury of
The Halifax Club Oversea

 

6. No prize will be awarded for any

composition, unless it attains to a high

standard of merit.

7. Suecessful compositions shall become the property of the University,
and shall be available for publication
the Dalhousie Review without re
8. In thes poetry contest no winner
of a first prize is vligible to compete
again, and no winner of a second prize

Victory for Progressive Party

ee ae ee

Progressives take 22 seats —Have not
working Majority.

From the Progressive Rzzords.

For the first time in the history of the

Dalhousie Law School a Progressive
Government holds the reins of power,
while the older parties occupy the ‘'sice
lines’. This situation arises as a result
of the General Election held on January
22, when the Progressives under the
leadership of P. J. Lewis member for
Hollyrood, were swept into power and
supplanted the regime of inefficiency
that has been in evidence during the
past few years. It was originally predicted that the Conservatives would
retain office with a substantial majority,
and enthusiasm ran high in their camp,
the Premier-to-be, Mr. Bissett promising
positions quite lavishly to party aspirants. The Liberals however, were equally sure of the result and would make no
concessions, the nubulous, all. inclusiveness of the idle harangues of their leader,
giving one the opinion that the election
was already won. Meanwhile, the Progressives had been perhaps more discreet, aod the instigators of a silent campaign, with the result that on nomination day the rally of the Progressives
surpassed that ef both Liberals and Conservatives in numbers and enthusiasm.
This enthusiasm for a party, backed by
an intermixture of youth and inexperience
spread throughout the precincts of the
Law School Dominion with the result
that the Progressives collected a substantial, though not an absolute majority.
The final returns being: Progressives
22. Conservatives 16, Liberals 10.

The new party thus lacks four votes
for an absolute majority, but with its
avowed intention to enact legislation for
the benefit of all and to free itself. from
the hond-chains _of— its predecessors,
both Liberals and Conservatives, it is
believed that the Progressives, will receive sufficient support to enable them
to carry on business efficiently. It ts
not known as yet what policy the official!
Opposition, the Conservatives, intend
to follow, and whether either they or
the Liberals shall sacrifice their prospective principles on the sacriligeous altars
of a coalescence—but there ar2 rumours
to this effect. Were they to do this and

 

defeat a Government which the majority
of the -llectorate desire to hold office,
then it is certain that both Liberals and
Conservatives would lose prestige and
power, and suffer in the event of another
general election. Close followers of the
Liberals, however, believe that their
party shall not participate actively —
against the new Government, being
mindful. that the Progressive policy
contains all of the better planks of the
Liberal Party—and that the Liberals
now hold office in Ottawa through the
good graces of the Progressives. On the
other hand it is true that the platform of
the Progr_ssives is equally inclusive of
many of the better planks of the Conservatives, yet there is known to be a
deep-rooted spirit of hostility in t heir
camp, among the “‘old-timer’s who are
antagonistic chiefly became deprived of
office. However, the Progressives are
undaunted and imbued with the ideal
of fulfilling their platform pledges and
the many reforms desired by the electorate, and of restoring the country to the
exalted position which is hers by birthright.
Several conferences have been held the
past few days between Premier-elect
Lewis and leading members of his party

and while nothing definate as yet has

been announced it is believed that the
folowing members of the Government
have been decided on:

| Minister of Justice—Hon. J, W. Longey.

Solicitor-General—Hon. R. J. Wilson,

Minister of Finance—Hon, |. G. Godsoe.

Minister of Public Works—Hon,. B.
Fairbanks,

Minister of Railways—Hon. F.
Mac Kenzie.

eC

It is understood that the member from...
Bedford, Mr. J. J. Lysons Atwood will be
Chief Whip, while no definite date has
yet been decided when Parliament is to
asse mble—close followers of the Government predict that it shall meet shortly.

Ed. Note—As the Gazette wishes to
show no partizanship in politics it must
be clearly understood that the above
article was written by a. Progressive
member and does not necessarily reflect
the sentiments of this pages.

 

Essay Prize. The envelope shall contain in typewriting the pseudonym, the
title of the essay, and the candidate's
name.

No prize will be awarded for any composition unless it attains to a high standard of merit.

Successful compositions shal! become
the property of the University, and shall
be available for publication in the
Dalhousie Review with ut remuneration,

The same composition may be submitted for this prize as for the DeMille
English Essay Prize, but any one composition shall not receive both a De Mille
Essay Prize and an Overseas Essay
Prize.

Compositions must be handed in to the
President’s Office on or before March
olst, 1926.

Dalhousie University,
January 20, 1926.

WITH APOLOGIES TO I. H. R.

—~

A woman is only a woman
While a good cigar is a smoke,
But a good cigar, like a woman
Is continually keeping me broke.

So we who are not very lucreus
But pay homage to Miss Nicotine,
Find a pipe and a can of tobacco
A joy and a blessing supreme!

DALHOUSIE.

 

 

is eligible for a second prize in a sub-| Where smiles the sea ‘neath a sky ever

sequent year.

blue,

. In the prose contest no winner of a}| Where blooms the maple tree,

first prize is eligible to compete again,
and no winner of a second prize is eligible
for a second prize in a subsequent year.

10. The winner of a prize in the
poetry contest is not debarred from competing in the prose contest, and vice
versa.

11, Compositions must be handed in
to the Pr_sident’s Office on or before
March 81, 1926.

‘Dalhousie University,
January 20, 192 6.

There stands Dalhousie, the College by,
the Sea;

And her children all are we—

Yes,—we come from Dalhousie,

Our Alma Mater, our mother dear;

And proudly now we sing her praises

That all may know that her sons are near.

Chorus:
All hail to thee, Dalhousie,
Our College by the Sea,

With heart and voice we praise thee

Wherever we may be.

Dalhousians Form
Weldon Inn of Phi Delta Phi.

What was formerly the Legal Honor
Society at Dalhousie Law School ts
now the ‘Weldon Inn’ of Phi Delta
Phi. The chief aim of this fraternity
is to promote and stimulate the highest
degree of scholarship and character in the
Law School, and to further that end various devices are employed such as supplementary lectures and addresses by members of the faculty and the local bar,
and frequent discussion groups. Of
course the purely social side 1s not overlooked. By this Chapter ‘‘Weldon Inn”
named in honor of the late Dean Weldon,
Dalhousie has linked up with the oldest
legal fraternity in the world.

Phi Delta’ Phi was founded in 1869
at the Law School of the University

cf Michigan and today it numbers fiftyhve chapters or inns situated at such
famous law schools as Yale, Cornell,
Columbia, Boston, Chicago, ete., and
has a membership of over fifteen thousand. There is one other ‘‘Inn’’ iv Canada, the “‘Osgoode Inn” installed in 1896
at the University of Toronto.

The initiation ceremony was conducted by Mr. L. K. Lydecker of New York
city, who is a high official of the Phi
Delta Phi, This was followed by a
dinner, at the Halifax Hotel, at which the
guests of honor included Stuart Jenks,
nn. C., V. C. McDonald and Professor
Angus L. MacDonaldallof whem made
speeches befitting the occasion. The proceeding ended with a final toast by Hugh
Huggins to the memory of the Chapters
name sake, the late Dean Weldon.

The chief officers of the ‘‘Weldon Inn”’
are President: Peter, L. Judge of Yarmouth; Vice President, Rex. Moore,
Halifax; Secretary, Leo A. Doyle, Charlottetown. In addition to the above
there are seven chartered members:—
Messrs. McInnis, Palmer, Graham, Theriault, Bissett, McManus and Huggins.

 
 

Page Two

| “The Dalhousie Gasette.”
(Founded 1869)

ss Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpny, 26.

Associate Editors:

Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
Avis H. Marsuaut, 27.
Ronatp Hayes, 26.
Warren Pusiicover, 26,
J. J. Lysons Arwoon, '28,

Financial Editor:
| Cuas. F, MacKenziz,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

 

‘The Eleventh Hour.”

It is with growing and incensed displeasure that the students
of the University look upon the ‘‘past-time’’ indulged in by several
professors of keeping their classes in after the sounding of the first
bell. It is considered quite excusable as an occasional happening—
when a professor has a distinct and definite part of his course to complete; but when indulged in as regularly as by one member of the
Arts Faculty, in particular, it becomes a habit, and a most annoying
habit.

There are several possible reasons for this. The professor may
have such a profound love for his subject and his students that he
cannot bear to part with either. Or the course may be entirely too
long to be covered in the allotted time. Again, the professor may
not-—but these are merely reasons, as for excuses, we can find none.

The practice is a discourteous one to other professors and students, alike. ‘The students have no time whatsoever to relax between classes, while professors are continually interrupted at the beginning of their lectures, by an influx of students from the delayed
class. Many lecturers lock their doors after the bell has rung and

; they pause repeatedly in their discourse and make trips to the door to
admit the latecomers who in many cases lose their attendance for the
class. Of, if the professor in question is not inclined to play the butler, the students, through no fault of their own, lose the whole of the
lecture. ;

When a classroom is in use for three and four hours in succession

as many classrooms are at Dalhousie, the only opportunity for thorough ventilation is during the short intermission between classes.
If, because of the professor, this five minute recess is abolished, then
the impure air is not. It remains to delight the nostrils and lungs of
the unfortunates who follow. It would be nice if we were not obliged to breathe. Butweare. Always have been, in fact, as long as
there is anything present in the form of a gas.
__.A few days ago a gentleman called to see one of the professors
in his private abode on the second floor of the Arts building. Unfortunately he arrived at just twelve o'clock. There was such congestion in the hall that he could scarcely force his way through, and
finally arriving at his destination he breathlessly inquired as to the
source of the trouble. He appeared rather bewildered on being informed that it was a regular occurrence, since that the students having classes at twelve were obliged to form in the halls and brace themselves against the exodus of their belated predecessors. He could not
comprehend it. Who can?

It is utterly without excuse and we hope that it will be remedied
at once before higher authorities are obliged to take up the matter.

 

previous two productions possibl+, and
Mr, O’Connell, Manag -r of the Majestic,
express themselves as strongly in favor of
the change that has been made.

It is interesting to quote trom the eritic
who wrot. up the Dalhousie productio:
of 1915, when a similar change from musi
From Mail Bag

Halifax, N. S.,
January 25, 1926.
Editor Dal. Gazette,—
Dear Sir:—

 

In the announcement of the proposed
Dalhousie theatre effort this year, a number of changes from recent Glee Club public procedure will at once be apparent to
all, The type of performance has been
changed, and the time of production has
likewise been altered. The Glee Club
executive has given considerable thought
to the whole matter, and some of the reasons which guided them in the matter of
alterations of time honored customs may
be of interest.

In the matter of the change from a
Musical Comedy to a dramatic performance, many factors have had an influence. When Dalhousie produced a
Musical Comedy as its first part war
effort in 1922-1923, there was virtually a
virgin field in this line of endeavor.
Since then we have been copied by almost every~ amateur organization in
Halifax, so that each season sees many
such amateur productions, and it must
be confessed that some of them draw upon a better array of musical talent than
we have in the University. Even in our
two musical shows it was found necessary
to use outside talent for the chief roles.

I am informed by those most closely in
touch with the production of the last two
Musical Comedies, that they were actuated in the selection of a vehicle by two
main factors. If the production were to
be a financial success, as it must be
prime attention must be paid, first to the
matter of cost of Royalties, Scores
Crchestration, etce., and second to a selection, the costumes required for th

woduction of which could be obtained as
cheaply as possible. The classical light
oes were beyond the musical ability >
the casts, and the best modern musica’
comedies were precluded for the reasons
above mentioned. In the production o
our Drama we are exempt from both
these cifficultiis, as there is ao royaity
and costuming is very easy indeed, Both
Mrs. Pearson, whose efforts made th:

cal to dramatic performance was made.
The play was ‘“Charlie’s Aunt,” and,
even in the light of regrettable incidents
on that occasion, the writer appears t
have no doubt that the change to a drama
was an effective move. ‘‘At no time was
the stage overcrowded. I have always
thought that having from ten to fifty
actors on the boards at once, as has been
the case for some years back, is a mistak
in a college production at least. Cer
tainly, a stronger effect is produced wh:
there is a chance for individual work to
show up.”

It has been felt that a dramatic sffort
would add a great deal to Convocatio
week proceedings, and the performanc:
of the Kings College play in mid term
gives us the opportunity to make a
change in our time of production. Many
people will be attracted to the city and a
creditable, undergraduate public effort
should place the student body in a very
favorable light in the eyes of the Alumna
and Alumni,

In the matter of training the actors to
take their parts it is felt that by the system to be adopted, a much more finished
production can be placed before the public in Convocation week; than would be
possible in mid term.

Yours very truly,

F. RONALD HAYES.

loseph’' D. Jeffers, B. A., LL.) B.,
barrister of Parrsboro, entered Harvard
University in September, where he is
taking a post graduate course in Law.
tlis practic2 is being looked after during
is absence by “Hanway & Barnes” o
\mbherst.

lohn Dunlop, B. A., B. C. L. (Oxon.)
Rhodes Scholar for Nova -Scotia, left
Parrsboro about the same time, to tak
post graduate work at Harvard. Both
young men are graduates of Dalhousie.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

To the Student Body

January 27th, 1926.

May we bring to your attention, the
decision of the Glee and Dramatic Society, under the auspices of the Council of
the Students, to produce a University
Drama in Convocation week this year.
The play chosen is the three act farce
comedy “The Private Secretary” by
Sir Charles Hawtrey, and there will be
two evening performances, May 10 and
11, Student Night being May 10, and
Convocation Day, May 11.

It is realized that it is impossible to
choose any committee of supervision
that would enter office with a full knowledge of the Dramatic ability in the
University, but it is earnestly desired
that the cast shall be selected as fairly
as possible from the whole student body.
The committee therefore requests that
all information which will assist in casting
the play as effectively as possible shall
he given either to the Chairman of the
Committee Prof. C. L. Bennett or to the
President of the Glee Club.

PARTS

The chief part is that of a gawky, angular young English’‘clergyman with a
total abstinance badge and numerous
goods and chattels... A marked English
accent is of considerable value to anyone
attempting this role. The success cr
failure of the play is dependent in a very
large measure on the success or failure
of this actor. The part was taken in the
original production ty Sir H. Beerbohm
Tree. re Ao

The next character in importance Is a
florid, quick tempered gentleman, (preferably rather largé), who has had a

joyous ycuth and is enjoying his middle

age.
e There is a tailor who wants to break
into society; his matiner is rough, under
a superficial attempt at genility. This
is a difficult ‘‘character part.”

Two roles call for ordinary young men
with the enthusiasm and other qualities
that one might expect. These parts are
much less easily taken on the stage than
off. ,

The outstanding female comedy role is
that of a tandlady, threatening, coaxing,
wheedling, crying as citcumstances demand.

The part of a middle’ aged spinster,
a dear, mild old lady, provides excellent
scope for ability to act humorously.
This is not a harsh old maid type of part
to the slightest extent. r

Two parts require young girls. The
terms of description’ for the young men
parts apply equally’ well for these parts.

There are also a number of minor roles
making a total of thirteen in all.

Attention is calléd to the Senate regulation that no one who is entering the
spring term under conditions, is permitted to take part in any public Dalhousie
production.

Everyone who takes a part in the play
must do so with the clear understanding
that all members of the cast must remain
in Halifax during the whole interval
between the close of examinations and
the production of the play. There will
be no practices held which will interfere
with examination plugging, and the intervening period after examinations will
be devoted to intensive work on the play.

The drama is being produced as by the
Student’s Council, and full responsibility
to the Management of the Majestic
Theatre has b2en assumed by this body.
Chis means that your Council has guaranteed that the contluct of the students
in the theatre will nat result in a financial
loss to the Theatre management, and
will not interfere with the production of
the play.

It is to be hoped that the request for
players will meet with a response in the
true Dalhousie spirit of trying to aid the
University to make the biggest success
possible of its first public <ffort since the
war to produce a driima.

Yours very truly.

A. BLENUS MORTON,
Pres. Council of the Students,

F, RONALD HAYES,
Pres. Dalhousiv Glee & Dramatic Soc.

ET EGO.

-_—_————.

(With apologies to I. H. R.).

A time there was,well may I blush to
blab it,

When I would spurn with pride the proferred ty? 1

Disdained to smoke—a hateful, hurtful
habit!

Smoking, in short, was really infra dig.;

They only, ran my articles of creed,

Are foreordained far Heaven who shun
the weed,

Sut now | scorn such doctrines of perfection,

And in a cig I find most soothing bliss;

low sweet is life since I too caught infection :

“rom Lady Nictoine’s seductive kiss!

You say “‘smokes'! are debarred from
Heaven? Well, |

No doubt I'll find sqme cosy place in... .

UNREPENTANT,

January 28, 1926

 

q.O
Ae

 
   

15‘ per pkt.
29 for d)*

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufactured by
Jmperral Tobacco Co. of Canada, Limited.

A Farewell Message

Imperia! Debating Team, 1926.
Sackville, Jan. 21, 1926.

To the Editor:

Sir,—As it is impossible for us to
thank individually the many who cooperated to make our stay in Halifax
so pleasant, will you permit us through
your columns to say how very grateful
we are to them all. Our only regret is
that such a short stay did not permit of
our meeting more Dalhousie students.

In future Dalhousie is for us more than
a name: it is a symbol of Canadian good
cheer and good fellowship, and we shall
always retain the happiest memories of
our stay in your midst.

Yours sincerely,

HUGH McLEAN.

PAUL REED.
RALPH MUNN MAY.
T. P. McDONALD.

Commerce Cleanings

—_— —_—- ——_-_—_—_—

Commerce Dance.

‘For de win’ she blow lak hurricane
Bimeby she blow some more.”

Neither win’ nor fear of hurricane
had any influence last Friday in keeping
the revellers from wandering out on
such a night, and the Green Lantern was
filled to capacity with those who helped
make the Commerce Dance a success.
This dance which was the first large
dance in the history of the Society was
indeed a huge success, and the members
fe-1 well repaid for their efforts. It is
hoped by all that the Society will continue their successful efforts in future
years.

Alan McLean and his fellow orchestra
members were in rare form and rendered
an excellent program.

The dance which was most informal
was in charge of a committee consisting
of Miss H. Peveril, H. C. Grant and H,
G. Dustan. The chaperones for the
evening were Mr. and Mrs. Stirling.

A HINT FOR THEME-WRITERS IN
ENGLISH 2.

John McIntyre, author of “A Young
Man’s Fancy,” says that, besides reading
thousands of books of all descriptions, i:
order to teach himself to write, he copisd
the whole of Robert Louis Stevenson's
“Inland Voyage,” in longhand, word for
word, down to the last comma.

King of”
CIGARETTES

  
     

The Scapel

Medica! Society Meeting.

On Tuesday evening, Jan. 19th, at 8 p.
m., was held in the Munro Room a most
interesting meeting, of the Dalhousie
Medical Society. Mr. Camron, Second
President of the Society, acted in the
official capacity of Chairman. The constitution of the Society provides that the
Second President shall preside at two regular meetings each year. This meeting
was the first of the year 1926.

Society Emblem.

Much important business was discussed at this meeting. The question of a
suitable emblem for the Society was finally decided, and it is hoped that a large
number of the members will socn procure
the emblem in suitable form, either as a
pin, ring, cufflinks, watch charm or some
such design. Any member wishing particulars should interview Mr. Scammel,
of Class ’27.

Several other minor questions were
soon dispensed with. The question of
the Medical Banquet occupied consideraable time. Finally the meeting decided
that the annual banquet should be held
at the Halifax Hotel on Monday, Feb.
15th, 1926. The’ committee in charge
comprise Messrs. Cameron, Scammel,
Morris and Winfield.

Grievances Regarding Curriculum.

_ Some grievances as regards certain subjects of the present medical curriculum
were mentioned, but no decisions were
forth coming. Now, gentlemen, any particular fault or grievance which should be
aired will have excellent opportunity at
the banquet on Feb. 15th. Then you
will have probably excellent debate both
for and against the particular question.
If you see any fault in the present method
express it, such criticism will be helpful
both to ourselves and to cur College.

Case History.

_The case history presented by Mr.
Keely, of the V. G. intern staff provided
probably the most interesting part of the
meeting. Mr. Keeley’s case discussion
was followed by similar cases presented
by Messrs Morton, Drysdale and Little,
which added much to the interest of the
meeting.

The interest shown at this meeting promises much for the future, and presages a
prosperous winter for the Society.

YOU ARE INVITED.

To attend St. John’s Church, Sunday
evening, Jan, 31st, at 8 p. m. Special
music is being provided by a Male ¢ hoir.
I his includes.e quartett2 of. Dalhousians

The Cellegiate Quartette’’— omposed
of Messrs. GW. Graham, C. fF. Wickwire, C. G. McLennan and B. €. Wickwire. Don’t miss it!

 
  

ae

eee

ae =|

o. ‘FROST.

tape " Silt

   
    
    
  
   
   
 
      
   
   
  
  

 

_ Like threads of glist’ning snow.
‘I love the sight of Irish lace,
Worked out in texture fine;

In intricate design.

But richest emblem of the art,
+ Is found outside the town
On hedge-rows up and down the lanes,
or. _ When hoary frost comes down.
3
There is the pattern traced with care,
On every twig and blade;
_ The whole design mere wondrous than
The finest lace yet made.
i q

Be 7 A. W.

¥
at

_- £03 Years Old

 

a

For over a century, Belcher’s Farmers’
_ Almanac has been hailed almost as an
_ institution by a host of readers in Eastern
_ Canada and Newfoundland, who looked
_ eagerly forward to its annual appearance.
KE a Phis year, the Almanac is somewhat
_ smaller in size than in the past, due to
_ @ more condensed fcrm of compiliation.
hough condensed in size no important
mformation has been omitted. Readers
will find this useful little volume as brimoul of interest as ever.
A newly added feature is the section
_ devoted to information of a legal nature
__ which covers valuable infermation in
__ Felation to wills, appointment of execu___ tors, descent of property and other matfers of a similar kind.
 _ A fairly successful effort to secure information covering the three Maritime
_ «provinces, resulted in the obtaining of
_ eonsiderable information regarding New
Brunswick and Prince Edward Island.
Much of this is included in Belcher’s

Almanac for the first time.

     
   
  

  

      
    
   
   
  
 
   

    

5

 

Cable Address; “McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Souicitors &c.
HALIFAX, N. S.

ector McInnes, K.C. W..C. Macdonald, K. C
sart Jenks, K. C. FP. B. A. Chi “
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. E. y

'

 

    

  

—Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

  
 

' SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS

    

ae ee e_  e

 
 

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

    

a

  
  
 

  

Small
{| But Important

 

 

i

YOUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat

. may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLtar
you wear—it is the one article of
dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
that confidence eecome _
good grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no welldressed man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,

which is so acce

     
       
         
       
   
   

 

  

L 1403
Halifax
Steam Laundry

85 West St.

 
      

\| po NOT FORGETHER
AT EASTER

) Flowers are appropriate but not
| any more so than.a lasting useful
gift selected at BIRKS.

She will think of yeu every time
_ she wears It.

| HENRY BIRKS & SONS Ltd.

 

 

« fine old needle point,
1 the long ago; ;
threads wove in pattern rare,

With so much patient skill portrayed,

 

  

 

  

i

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.
§.C.A. Gathering | Engineering Notes
; —

 

A most original gathering of the en-| Engineers Inspect Heating Plants.
thusiastic S. C A, Pian held at Avis Marshall’s home on Thursday last. Each
girl came bearing a lunch for two and
each boy came Jogling a few odd coins
in his pocket. When all had arrived a
sheet was.stretched in a large double door
way upon which were presented solhouettes of a most varied assortment. Here
was a miracle indeed—more interesting
than Procrustes’ bed, for tall girls became
short, and short girls tall some even
presented the form of an old woman with
a hump on her back or the typical spinster
of upright carriage and upturned nose.

No wonder the boys became eratic in
their bidding. Who wouldn't lose one's
wits before such a miraculous transformation? Why one youth even raised his
own bid three times without any competition and then—he got the wrong girl.

Following this spirited bidding the
owners came forward to claim their property and the couples grouped themselves
around to enjoy the contents of those
mysterious boxes. Then were thos>
youths made happy,for to please the outer man one has only to please the inner.

Then as the lights were turned low and
the fire light flickered on the walls and lit
up the faces of the party seated round,
jokes were brought forth, jokes new and
old. Each had a turn in telling and all
had their turn in laughing, though some
members of the party laughed a full
minute after the rest. Then came ghost
stories and after a pleasant and very ina sing-song, the evening came to an
end.

  
   
  
  

On January 16th the second year
Enginvers were conducted by Professor
Theakston on a tour of the Dalhousie
heating plants. Professor Theakston
carefully explained the working of the
principal equipment and the systems used
in the three main installations, and also
gave some very interesting figures showing the number of square feet of radiation
handled, and the number of tons of coal
used by each plant. The Shirreff Hall
plant which is the smallest, has a total
of $400 sq. ft. of radiation surface, and
during the year ending June 1925 used
340 tones of coal. The Studley plant,
heating the other four buildings on the
campus, takes care of 17,000 sq. ft. of
radiation and used 480 tons of coal last
year. The largest heating unit is the
Power plant on Merris St., which supplies the Forrest building, the Public
Health Clinic, and the Medical Science
Laboratory. These three buildings have
a total of 22,100 sq. ft. of radiation and
during last year require:! 570 tons of c cal.
After visiting these three plants, the
party concluded a very interesting morning with a tour through the cther buildings on the Medical campus.

A-second trip will be arranged in the
course of another few weeks and will
take in the Lorne Automatic Telephone
Exchange.

Lecture by Prof. Copp.

On January 22nd, Professor Copp
opened the Engineeripg Society's series
of Lectures with a very interesting illustrated review of the building of the
Quebee bridge. The jspeaker, who held
a responsible post in connection with the
building of this great structure, first
gave a short history of the various efforts
which have been made since 1852 to
bridge the St. Lawrence. After giving
some general information about the
present structure he preceeded to explain
with the aid of lantern slides, the stages
in the erection of the various sections of
the bridge, starting with the first framework laid down and centinuing to the
time when the central span was permanently in position,

The present bridge, which was started
in 1911, is over 3000 feet long, is built
in three sections, made up of two cantilevers with a 640 foot span between,
and is supported by two main piers with
two additional auxiliary piers. Lach
cantilever weighs 29,000 tons while the
central portion weighs 6000 tons. The
main piers on which this huge mass is
supported extead 100 feet below the
high water level’of the river. “There are
two main features for which the bridge is
famous. The first is the central span
which was built over three miles from its
present site, and floated down the river,
toa position between the two arms of the
bridge. Two attempts were made to
hoist it into place. The first, in 1917,
resulted in failure attended by the com
plete loss of the span, but the operation
was repeated and carried through succes
sfully one year later. The second, and
principal feature which has made th
Quebec bridge such an outstanding
achievement is the tremendous lengt!
between piers, consisting of 1800 feet o!
material supported ut ths ends only,
a distance more than equal to the entir
length of the Studley Campus.

At the conclusion of the lecture, President Armstrong extended the thanks
of the society to Professor Copp, and the
concensus of opiaion afterwards was that
it was one of the most interesting talks
that the Engineers had listened to for a
leng time.

TO *‘DREAMER—ARTS ’29.”’

Freshman, when you read this column,
This is what you've got to swear-—

Swear cn oath, and swear it solemn,
That you'll do your little share.

This is one of near a score, dear,
If you count them, you will see,

And if you won't write some more, dear,
They must be filled up by me.

Wherefore, Dreamer, rise and shine, do,
Send your manuscripts in flocks,

Though your verses limp as mine do
Drop them in the wee Black Box.

WAKE UP!

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is
A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes.

“PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

CASINO

NEXT WEEK
MON., TUES., WED.

“THE SCARLET SAINT ”

with
LLOYD HUGHES
MARY ASTOR

THUR., FRI., SAT.

“BOBBED HAIR”
by

20 FAMOUS AUTHORS
with
MARIE PREVOST
KENNETH HARLAN

.Class Party.

The plans for the Engineers party have
finally crystallized out into something
definite. A sleigh drive followed by a
dance will be held on January 28th;
weather forbidding, a theatre party will
take the place of the drive. The fact
that no stags will be tolerated is causing
the boys lots of concern and there is no
doubt that the offer made before the
last Engineer's party by one of the gang
who evidently conducts a female agency,
to supply damsels for some of the lone: |
some youths would have lots of appli- |
cants this trip. Time will tell, and
Thursday night will bea telling occasion
‘or the I ngineers.

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

      
     
      
     
     
       

  

ALSO

School and College Text Books

 

Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Den't NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

   
  
 

 

 

 

Class ’28 Party

“Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the
way,

Oh what fun it is to ride in a one-horse
open sleigh.”

Indeed the bells did single at the Class
28 sleigh drive. ‘Thers were all kinds,
for they had bells, and belles end Professor Bell, who was such an admirable
*haperone. Packed four deep in two big
straw-filled sleighs, everyone enjoyed
themselves. Although one might have
used a little more space for an odd fcot or
two, no one minded having a few people
on top of them. In fact everyone found
that the drive out the Bedford road, and
around Fairview, was almost too shert,
when they arrived at the Woodcock Inn,
after a warming cup of hot coffee and
sandwiches, people's stiffness and crampedness scemed to vanish at the sound of
Keye’s music. The very much enjoyed
lancing lasted until twelve o’clock, when
everyone had to struggle into all their
sweaters and coats again, and saying
what a nice time they had had, they
wended their weary way homeward. 5o,

another Sophmore party, the best yet,

Was OVETr,

J. F. M., '28.

Ciass ’29 Party

The members of Class '29 had a jolly
time last Monday 2vening when they
held their first class party of the New
Year, which took the form of a sleigh
drive. Leaving the city at eight o’clock,
the crewd drove out the St. Margaret's
Bay Road returning to the home of Graham Allen, 89 South Park St., about twe
hours later. Supp.r was served, after
which everyone joined in dancing, the
music being supplied by Joe Mills.

The chaperones of the evening were
Prof. McDonald and Mrs. A. McD, Merton. The class are greatly indebted to
Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Allen, who entertained them in such a hospitable manner.
[t was; as prophesied “‘the best party

yet!”
K. ’29.

 

College Songs
and Yells

—

COMMERCE YELL.

D  llars, dollars, nickles and dimes,
We are the men ahead of the times,
Brokers, bankers, financiers,
Commerce, commerce, millionares.
Com—merce!.

Page Three

 

“LOVE.’’

 

 

Love is not but fantasy,
Feeding on the poets brain,

And the cynic in his mocking,
Shouts his shallow views in vain.

Love is man’s God-given motive,

Which should mold whate’er we frame
And if love impels our actions,

Of our works we feel no shame.

Though man’s soul be low and sinful,
Tasting of the dregs of life,

Though his mind be dark and troubled,
Yet with love there endeth strife.

Though this world be dark and dreary,
Though its work be hard and dull,

Yet when love directs the actions,
Then this life ts rich and full.

When the cynic questions whether
In this world love has a part,
We who know may tvl! him better,
That this world moves round the heart.

met'y,”?

“You never can tell”

 

There is no sadder sight than that of a
misunderstood man, and a sight no more
ludicrous than that of a man wrongly enraged. But when a man in a rage renounces all the vanities of this wicked
world, cuts himself off from society, even
from his family, and begins to propound
theories cn Woman, moreover on Modern Woman—when such a man (the last
of a vanishing race:) sallies forth to match
his wits against the challenge of the
Weaker Sex—Beware!! Something is
bound to—well, “You Never Can Tell” —
especially when he discovers, as he 1s
bound to do, that the dainty gauntlet
contains a small and determined femaledfist. It is this satate of armed hostility
and the lively but wary reactions of its
various belligerents that cause the hilarity and joy of “You Never Cana Tell’ as
it will ke played by the King’s University
Players on the afternoon and evening of
Wednesday, February 10th.

Did we say hoy— Does man smile
when he opens a bottle of old port and
quaffs its sparkling contents to the fullSuch feelings are all too rare nowadays.
And so is such humour. It was to help
us forget convention and sip, for once,
more intoxicating liquors, that a fellow
by the name of Shaw, with a million-dollar reputation as a humourdus tempter,
wrote ‘You Never Can tell.”

“You Never Can Tell'’’—-What—- Come
to the Majestic and see on February 10th.
Even as a thousand men may be slain by
the jawbone of a—Woman, this play its a
knockout! We guarantee that if you
don’t pass out laughing, you will want to
choke your neighbour—or perhaps perpetrate some equally undignified action—
“You Never Can Tell.”

 

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

 

SpeciAL Bosppinc PARLORS
For Ladies

 

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

 

  

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harz Cutrimne is sure
satisfy. Laptes’ Harr Curttine in all
styles; also Curtinc, SHAMPooING and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

Phone S 4780 41 Sackville St.

 

*‘Eversharp’’ Leads

FREE

We fill your pencil and give an EXTRA
Box FREE w th every ‘“‘Eversharp”
Penc:| this month

50c UP

KELLYS Ltd.
GRANVILLE STREET

 

  
   
  
     
     
   

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four PreEssincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices, i: ¢t: 3

Light Lunches and Ice Cream

ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

HIGH
CLASS

JEWELRY nice
H. C. HENDERSON

57 Granville Street, « ~ Cor. Sackville

 

V3 COO SS er

 

 
 

 

   
  
   

 

 
   
    
     
   

SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

W.. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 

Announcement.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1926.

The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic
Society will present in the
Gymnasium

“BIMBO THE PIRATE”
By Booth Tarkington.

 

 

Cast of Characters. _
Captain Deuteronomy Bimbo. ugh P.Bell.
Gunner of the Pirate Ship
Harold R. Theakston.
Mr. Driscoll, a London Merchant
George H. Henderson.
Lydia, kis Daughter .Miss Orpha McNutt.
Robert, Mate of the Merchant Ship
C. L. Bennet.

Pirates .N. B. Dreyer, James M acDonald

 

Stave Carpenter and Electritian
: *; J. H. L. Johnstone.

 

A Musical Program will also be pre
sented :—
Director of the Musical Program
E. Gordon Young.

 

Confidence of
Students Council

(Continued fiom page 1. Col. 2.)

 

further much needed equipment for the
Badminton Club, but owing to the fact
that it has no funds these new branches of
sport are cut short in their inauguration ;
and such activities as basketball have
their estimates almost divided in half
owing to the lack of careful apportionment of funds by the Students’ Council.

I would advocate the return to the
system in vogue about five years ago
whereby the D. A. A. ©. had its own
funds and carried on its own activities.

If the Students’ Council carried on the
D. A. A, C. functions sufficiently well no
criticism would be forthcoming, but its
lack of responsibility was seen in the fact
that last year’s Students’ Council Secretary on his own initiative took a basket
ball team to Truro, when funds were
much in demand and thereby put that
Council in a hopeless financial condition.
If the D. A. A. C. had had charge of its
funds last year that team would never
have left Halifax.

(5) The inefficiency of the Students’
Council in financial matters was seen
when the Boards of Governors were
forced to take action and have Students’
Council finances looked into this year.
There is at present a proper accounting
system in operation with which | have no
complaint, but its need was szen in the
fact that the Students’ Council of this
year have been obliged to pay bills to the
extent of over three hundred dollars
incurred by last year’s council.

(6) I feeltco, there is a need for further revenue and the assessment should
be increased from seven to ten dollars a
year.

(7) To anybody who has read this
letter this far | humbly apologize for its
length, but it seemsto me that the above

ints are only a few which show the need
oj reorganization of the Students’ Council.

I appreciate the fact that some of the
points I have suggested may not appeal!
to many people, but I think all agree that
at present matters are very serious,

This letter is not written with th:
intention of answering any subsequent
letters which may criticise it, but will
stand in its present form.

Yours truly,
DONALD McINNES.

“You Never Can Tell’’

BUT

You Can Find Out
by going to the

KING'S COLLEGE COMEDY
Majestic, Wed Feb. 10

re

Ask for tickets from
any King’s student.

 

    
   
  
 
 
 
    
 
    
 

   

e

Dal Girls win from (What Doing

“y, W. 48-17”

—

 

Miss Thompson Stars.

Dalhousie girl’s Intermediate team
beat the Y. W. C. A. “A” team 48-17 in
their first game of the newly organized
league. The strong point in the Dalhousie team was its ferward line. Alice
Atherton being unable to play, her
place was taken by Marion Campbell,
who paired with Miss Thompson formed
a wonderful scoring machine. In spite
of the very one sided score the game was
interesting to watch particularly the
remarkable exhibition of the two forwards with the Yellow blouses. Miss
Thompsen was certainly ‘on’ that night,
her shooting and passing for an intermediate player being very excellent.
The guards were a little loose at times
and unfortunately those times just coincided with the times when the “Y. W.”
forwards found themselves. The centers though theyfed the forwards well
were a little slow with bcth their hands
and feet. The whole team particularly
the centers’ want to speed up a little,
make their passing a little snappier and
their catching a little more sure. If
they do this they can start to dust off a
place in the Library for the very fine
cup that is to be given to the winning
team. These games are quite interesting
to watch and as soon as a time table is
drawn up it will be published so every
body can get a chance to see the team
in action, and exercise their lungs a bit.
Line up: Campbell, Thompson, McVail, McCurdy. Freeman, Wood, Subs
McKay, Phinney, M. Thompson.

 

ALPHA BETA You know the rest of this

alphabet, but won't you
learn the music from a Music Dealer's Text Book.
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

$24.00

Suit or

a eS i
to your measure,

Over Coat
Best value
in Canada.
See the many advantages |

we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your
clothes.

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

 

If You Want to See Well

in Sport

Dart
 

Friday 29th—Dal-King’s vs.
mouth at Dartmouth.

Saturday 80th—Interfaculty Hockey
2-3. Interfaculty Basketball at 2.30.

Dal. vs. St. George’s at the “Y” Senior

Basketball.

Monday 1st—The evening the Law
Dance. Hockey Practise 6-7.

Tuesday 2nd.—Interfaculty Hockey
12-1 Weather permitting Hockey Practise 6-7.

Wednesday 8rd:—Fockey Practise 6-7.

Thursday 4th—Interfaculty Hockey
12-1 Weather permitting. Hockey Practise 6-7.

Interfaculty
Basketball

Medicine 24—Commerce I17.

The first games of the Interfaculty
League were played last Saturday alternoon in the Dal. Gym. The whole six
teams look equally strong and the outcome is very much in doubt, which should
produce very keen competition. The
Medicals with a line up like a football
team, beat Commerce 24-17. Some ol
the players in this game were a little
bit inclined to rough matters, their
early training in ¢hasing the pig skin
being now and then in evidence.

Medicine looks like a very strong contender this year. Medicine Baird 2,
“Kelly” McLean, Hewat 18, Philips 2,
Douglas 4, Beardsley I. McDonald
Merritt.

Commerce—Snow, Grant, McDuff,

Smith 3, Miller 6, McColl 8, Harris.
Engineers 28—Dentals 10.

In the second game the Dentals extracted a 28-10 defeat from the Doughty
Draughtsmen. ‘This game also was perhaps rather hectic at times, but when
you take into consideration the comparative inexpericence of most of the members
of the teams the roughness in evidence
in both this game and the Med.-Commerce one can be entirely excused. n‘gineers:—Brown 10, Curry 10, McCunn 2
Allen, Lowe, Beaton 6.

Dentals—Dobson 2, Godsoe 2, Tupper
2, Oldfield 2, Henneberry 2, Sullivan.

Law 17—-Arts 13.

In the closest game of the day Law
argued its way toa four point victory
over the Arts team 17-13. Law, last
vears champions, fre very light and as
the Arts team wasn’t much heavier it
was the cleanest of the three games.

Law:—Richardson 11, Doyle 6, McInnes, Couglan, Mitchell, Hebb, ¢ uthit

Arts:—Bill Clark 7, Hockin 4, Keating 2, E. Clark, Jardine, Food.

 

See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE
Y. M. C. A. Bldg

Optometrist & Optician

 

 

 

      
  
  
   
     

 

MAJESTIC

WEEK OF FEB. Ist.

G. P. HUNTLEY

“THREE LITTLE
MAIDS”’

THE MUSICAL COMEDY
SUCCESS

SEATS NOW ON SALE

 

 

 

 

STRAND.

NOW RUNNING

MAE EDWARDS CO.

A Good Evening’s Entertainment

COME EARLY

Osenart yeteltieN

FOR MEN
Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
These very men are the fellows you see

 

are necessary to keep up appearances,
daily at WALLACE’S buying
and Spats.

OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Wallace Bros.

523 BARRINGTON ST. Aj

ords

 

 

 

            
    
   
    

 

Dalhousie Intermediates Win

Defeat Wanderers by a double score.

Dal. Intermediates continued their
winning streak by giving the Wanderers
a 28-12 beating at the ““Y'’ Gym last
Friday night. Playing an _ excellent
passing game throughout, at times rather
spasmodic and leose they had the game
well in hand from the beginning. In the
first period the play was very close, Dal
scoring only two baskets to the Wand’s
four, but Da! netted another six points
on penalties making it 10-8. The second
was hardly underway when Bill Clark
scored on a beautiful shot from almost
center floor. After that the Wanderers
simply couldn't hold them, and_ the
period ended after Dal had scored 18
points while they held the Wanderers to
Bill Clark was once more high man
with 12. Bill Hewat came next with 9.
Sperry at center played a geod game but
was rather slow in passing and missed
several chances to score by this lack of

*

speed. However as he is essentially a
defence man there is quite a good reason

for it. Line up: Clark 12, Hewat 9,
Sperry 4, Jones 0, Brown 38, Miller 9.

3rown a new man paired up very well
with Jones in fact this pair was responsible to a great extent for Dal.’s victery.
The Second Team is badly handicapped
by lack of spares.

|

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicns,
also Wepprnc BouQueEts. We
also do Tasie Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the

T. F. D. Florists. We can wire

Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSER

8 BLOWERS ST.
Night Phone Sac. 1934

Phones Sac. 3321-3322

A Complete
Musical Service

Everything that Students
require in Music, including
small instruments Of every
description. Sheet Music &
Music Books will be found

PHINNEY’S Limited

414 BARRINGTON ST.

 

Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents For

Society Brand Clothes

Correct Dress For Students

437 Barrington Street

om The

WINNERS From 1

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods

HALIFAX F N.S:

    
 

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

=—ALSO—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

   
 

SPORT NEWS 3X

January 28, 1926

   

Seniors Suffer
Defeat

Lose to the ‘*Y’”’ in regular league
fixture.

 

After leading for most of the game Dal
was beaten by three points, a long shot
and a penalty, in one of the most peculiar
games of the season. The first period
was penalty after penalty until Ab.
Smith was put off for four personal
fouls, and a ‘‘Y" man also suffered the
same fate. Then with most of the ‘“Y”
team with three and two against them
the Referee went blind with the result
direct or otherwise, that the “Y"’ came
up from behind and won the game. The
game was not featured by any outstanding players or plays but was nevertheless
an interesting one to watch and one
featured by many thrills. One of the
things that could be noted with pleasure
was Dal.’s strength in scoring on penalties which netted 7 points in the first
period. In spite of this defeat Dal.
has a very good team and should be
very near the top, at the end of the season but like the Second tzam the Seniors lack spares and will be at a big
disadvantage until this defect is remedied
Ther was a fair sized crowd in attendance rooting for Dal. who at times broke
into disgusted boos when a particularly
tlind spot appeared in the referee's
vision.

Line up: Wilson 5, McLeod, 9, McLennan 7, Langstroth 9, Smith 0, Doyle 0
Moore 0. Williams of the Y refzreed.

Majestic Notes

Majestic patrons will have an opportunity of seeing and hearing the very best
of musical comedy next week, when the
ever-popular Capt. M. W. Plunkett
brings his ‘Three Little Maids” to town.

It is a noted London success with
comedy in abundance, a great deal of
really excellent music excepticnal dancing, artistic settings and costumes, It
reminds one greatly of the Gilbert and
Sullivan type of light opera and it is completely devoid of the cheap vaudeville.
“bits” so frequently used as fillers.

Topping the list of artists is C. P.
Huntley, one of the finest comedy stars
on the English stage. He was co-starred
with Raymond Hitchcock and Julia
Saunderson in ‘‘Hitchy-Koo” and has
played the role of Sir George Orreyed
with Ethel Barrymore in her revival
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.”

But “Three Little Maids’’ always will
be one of his greatest plays having exactly the things a musical comedy must
have to make it an unusual hit.

Casino

Motion Picture fans who have often
wanted to attend the noted New Orleans
Mardi Gras carnival will have the opportunity to see it next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday at the Casino
Theatre when “The SCARLET SAINT”
is shown. It is an adaption of Gerald
Reaumont’s magazine story ‘‘The Lady
Who Played Fidels’. Mary Astor and
Lloyd Hughes have the featured roles.

“BOBBED HAIR” (a shert cut to
big entertainment) will be the feature
attraction for the last three days of the
week. Marie Prevest heads the list
which includes Kenneth Harlan, Louis
Fazonda, John Roche, and many others

     
  
   
      
    
    
     
   

The Dress Shop
The Hat Shop
The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

 

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail.

Jensen & Mills Co. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

When in Town

GET THE

Three Essentials

1. Pure Food and Candy

2. Prompt and Courteous
Service

3. Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. — Geo. Alexander

   

 
