    

Pad

Py ye —
. Py
, * “
e mt '

Cai Ri eRe eR
= ae . 4 , _ a . i"
ao pe 7 - = Z = on
eae ¥ i ¥ ,
“a im “ r ,

re = al
i Tawa
*, sa i
Ps
a 
*

- year after year to help oe a university
- paper for a. p of co
men wh a ghest interest seems to lie

- fessional men, University Professors, Senior

_ student is neither the book worm nor the

; ore best represented by our Rhodes
Oo

tion can have is to be well balanced.

~~

‘ing an essay, or composing a few verses.

- venerable,

ee ee

VOL. L LXVIII NO. 1

ere ei You?

This, stranger, is the Dalhousie Gaaette. If you are one of the ninety per
oes of ee students, past and present, of
you have never heard of this

a That j is if your knowledge may

a judged by your activity. If you are
one of the other ten per cent you may
feel a bit discouraged at being asked

          
   

   

 

   

    
     
      

demic studies.

        
 

ege men and wo
    
    

in the jo Coens

But, fellow student, what are you here
for? What are we all here for? What
is the Dalhousie Gazette here for? Pro
 
   
       
         
 

: Students, all unite to tell us that the best

    
   
 

lounge lizard but the all round man; the

    
     
 

lars. And so it is with the Gazette.
The highest aim your University publica
 
       
 

And it might well be asked again, Where
are you? Where do you stand? Are
you trying to help make your paper an
institution of service, or are you standing
on the outside and knocking because the
editorial writer splits his infinitive?
You are a member of a_ University
Keel’ at least a member of your class.
1 your gatherings and activities being properly advertised? You know nothing su s like success, and the Gazette
exists to. give the news of the various
_toups to the to the whole student body.
Way back,

      
 

gown.

 
   
   
     
       
       
     
  

‘Alma Mater.

    

    
  
  

  

somewhere in your high
] career, you won a prize for writ
      
    

erhaps some newspaper gave you honorable mention for your theme on how to
beautify the home town. Isn't your Uniabr is ey to fame a little | |

©; |

    
     
     
    
 
 
  
 
   
 

   

1 contributed in the jae five years? ||}
m't you think that his old class mates
scat be interested to know that Jack
Smith '08 has received a new addition to
his family? Your paper is really anxious
“to keep alive the usie spirit among
the Alumni and Alumnae.

Dalhousians, you are being urged to
take advantage of the fact that the University paper exists for the ninety per
cent. to just the same extent as it exists
for the ten. It is your duty to see that
you get out of it the maximum of usefulness for yourself. The remark is extremely
but still worthy of consideration, that’ any fool can heap up difficulties,
but it takes men of wisdom and initiative
to overcome them. Where do you stand?

The Literary ‘‘D’’

One of the highest and most coveted
honors which a student may win while at
Dalhousie, is that of obtai a Literary
“D.” But, as there seems to be considerable ignorance concerning the gaining of
this prize, it was thought wise to explain
it without further delay to the students
through the columns of the college paper.

The Literary “‘D” was instituted during the term of 1920-21, and is awarded
to students for contributions to the Gazette. The prized emblem is presented
to successful students in the form of a gold
“D” suitably engraved, and is usually bestowed with fitting ceremony during the
commencement exercises of the graduating

successful session.

    
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
     
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
   
   
   
  
   
 

On Seeing Halifax

 

There are in the main four aspects of
this city of ours: it is historical, it is
scholastic, it is fashionable, and it is Halifax. Of the first three I have nothing to
say at present. I believe excellent guidebooks exist which flanked by a sedatelycovered University Calendar, provide material for years of study. The fashionable
part you may or may not meet. But for
the fourth no adequate volume has ever
been or ever will be written. There is in
this old city a unique and elusive charm
written not on stone or paper but on the
heart and mind. This it is that draws and
holds Haligonians and those who may
become such. To the Freshman then,
let me say this is a place to know with
the knowledge that comes only with many
days, it is a place that can never be forgotten, a place full always of strange new
revelations.

Go out to the North West Arm. Go
out on the water and paddle towards the
ocean. ou return watch the sun set
over the en woods, see the evening
star low in the sky, like. the Christmas
star over that dark fir-tree tipping the
clouds with its slender top most branch.
Or walk round Point Pleasant Park.
Hear the waves lap-lapping as you go
with ghost-like steps over the pine-needle
carpets—nature’s voice is the more easily
heard when you walk with silent feet.
Go there on a stormy day with the wind

= i. ur face and the branches wrestling

groaning aboye you and the breakers
roaring shoreward. Do you exult in the
noise of the gale or do you feel small and
weak, yet surely God is in this place—
see that frail little flower that bends and
sey and again raises its so lovely golden

 

Now, perhaps, some are wondering
how to proceed in order to win one of these
coveted prizes. The answer is simple.
Write articles for the Gazette; if you are
poetically inclined, write verse; or perhaps
you have a keenly developed sense of
humorand can hand along something which
tends to excite laughter; literary critism
aoe short descriptive articles are especially esteemed. But whatever your special
qualification may be, use it to advantage

by helping to bring the Gazette out on

time and raising it’s contents to a higher
eet _ The Gazette has been in con
since 1869, and. must be
xd and made of the great
est vai the . hea sie It
a uate endeavour
ni i the standard of the Gazette the
atlec ee ee ee
purposes t have

h us “here, the unselfish ambitions
cite us to action when we look far

   
     
 
    

Take the ferry across to Dartmouth,
not to see that pretty little place but to
look across to our own city of Halifax
Can with its stately spires, its grim citadel,

- and its long water front. Is it not a fair
girded about with seas?

Or best of all climb Citadel Hill, the
ie ales hill with the biggest view of any

7 | in mada. Look out to sea; picture
f your f refathers in their little wind-driven

— bravely rounding Chebucto Head,

  

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER,

flower of our Canadian youth.

Zi, LLL.

scared of Indians maybe, scared of the
unknown maybe, yet dauntless and courageous. Are you worthy of such sires?
Look out towards the Bedford Basin with
anchorage for all the British navy, that
navy that unsleeping guards the seven
seas that millions may go about their
business and be fed and yet it could all
be peacefully at anchor in that little basin.
What are you doing to bring about those
days of peace?

Turn now to the north and west, to the
woods flaming in maple-red, the maple our
own peculiar emblem, the maple slender
and strong and sweet. Are you like that?
Or climb this little hill at evenfall. Look
across the harbor and see the homes of
Dartmouth and Imperoyai—no longer
houses but fairy palaces with their
myriad lights gleaming and dancing on
the water. And ’ere you go down town
to a show or back to your studies, look
across the common to a rather ugly squat
building with many lighted windows.
Ah, within are many sick and helpless
lads, lads once strong and vigorous as
yourselves whose bodies were broken so
that. you and 1 might go in and out of
Dalhousie cheerily and unafraid. Sometimes we fofget they are there, yet we
should not for Halifax is the richer for
their brave spirit.

Explore everywhere. Go always with
your eyes and your heart set open. Make
your thoughts for yourselves for other
men’s are probably not so good. Go, and
grow, by the slow steps that are the only
possible way into communion with the
Spirit of a place. And so in after years
you will come to feel a strange new stirring
in your blood as the summer wanes, you
will learn the ecstasy of those grey October mists drifting in from the Atlantic
and of the dropping leaves of crimson and
gold, you, too, will hear the challenge in
that first autumn wind coming restlessly
from the great snow-lands of the north,
that as every Fall comes round, calls the
Haligonian to his sea-girt home, and the
Spirit within you will answer the call even
from the ends of the earth and your life
and your work will be the finer and the
nobler because of your memories of student days in Halifax.

M, A, 5,

 

 

21st, 1925

WELCOME TO ALMA MATER.

S representing the Board of Governors of the University it gives me
A great pleasure to bid hearty welcome to the large body of students who come up to Dalhousie to begin or resume their aca
I know that in expressing this welcome I speak
not only for the college authorities, but I also voice the sentiment of
the great majority of the citizens of Halifax.
Time was when many of our citizens held aloof from the College
and treated her students with indifference.
since passed away. They now take a civic pride in the Institution, and
appreciate the many advantages to be derived from the annual advent of a small army of young men and women who represent the very
I feel sure our students recognize that
Halifax extends to them a most friendly and hospitable hand, and that
they in turn will reciprocate by doing their full share towards strengthening and maintaining the best of good feeling between town and

That attitude has long

May I venture upon a personal note? You doubtless come to
town with mingled feelings of expectation, hope, and anxiety—dependent upon your previous training and experience—but all of you,
I trust, filled with high courage, and the determination to put your
heart into your work, for the sake of yourselves, your friends, and your
You will give proof of the qualities that distinguish

the gentleman and the scholar—unfailing courtesy to all, whether
junior or senior to yourself; a scrupulous regard for fair play; and a
chivalrous attitude towards your opponents, whether in sport or in
debate. In a word, you will realize that the honor of your college is
confided to your hands, and that while it will be your legitimate ambition to leave it with academic distinction, it is much more vital that you
should leave it bearing the panoply of unsullied honour, unswerving
adherence to principle, and an earnest resolve to serve the highest in terests of your country.
You carry with you into your work the warmest good wishes, and
the highest expectations of your friends for a happy, profitable, and

\
>

 

 

To Certain
Freshettes

O Freshettes, Freshettes, wear your bows
Of brown or green, or blue or pink,

Or any Colour Sophomores think
Appears aesthetic; soothe your woes
Until their hazings cease;

Wear any blessed thing they choose

In all the most unhailowed hues,

It’s true they give us all the blues—

 

But anything for peace.

To how many other Lecture rooms does
this apply?

Professor in Room 3:
last week but I said practically nothing.

A Few Words To
The Freshmen

Now that another term has begun at

“I spoke of that

??

 

Dalhousie, the majority of students are| be rectified. The

 

| evening last. The

 

 

 

 

el
—
oo
a
—
—
==
a
ned
—

 

Five Cents The Copy

 

 

Imperial Team
Coming

 

Arrangements for a debate with an
Imperial team were discussed at the first
meeting of the Sodales debating society,
held in the Munroe room on W ednesday
executive was empowered to select from a list of subjects
proposed by the Oxford-Cambridge representatives, one most suitable fer argument
from a Dalhousie standpoint. The list
submitted includes the following resolutions:

1. That the Geneva Protocol is worthy
of the support of Great Britain and the
Dominions.

2. That Western Civilization is be
coming a degenerating influence to mankind,

3. That this House supports the establishment of a Naval Base at Singapore,

4. That an adequate de fensive naval
force should be established in the Pacific
Ocean by the Governments of the Dominions.

With regard to these subjects, the
visiting team supports the first two resolutions and opposes the others. The Executive of Sodales has the matter of subject under consideration and announcement of their choice will be made public
later. The tentative date of this debate
is between the 14th, and 20th of January.

No definite arrangements have been
completed to date for the debate with McGill University, but it is expected that a
Dalhousie team will visit Montreal during
the latter part of the College term.

Another item on-the program of the
society, for this term is the Inter-collegiate encounter with Mt. Allison which
will take place at Sackville about the
middle of March. Negotiations have
already been opened. It is the privilege
of Dalhousie to choose the subject while
their opponents have the option of supporting or opposing the resolution submitted. (Continued on page 2 col. 1.)

 

and which may make the path of new
students easier to travel if given early in
the game, The wise student will start

“right” by working. lt is well to keep in
mind that one is here to acquire a certain
amount of knowledge, and that, although
the term is still in it’s infancy, the examinations are not as far off as the millenium,
The weeks pass quickly and the time for
a show-down is bound to come.

Again, Freshmen, you will be hearing
a great deal about student activities,
You will be sure to find your university
life much fuller, much more enjoyable and
worth-while if you take an active interest
in some certain lines of undergraduate endeavour. The main thing to remember
is, do not try to take a leading part in
everything. 1f you do, your studies will!
suffer. As has been intimated very frequently in the pages of the Gazette, merit
is usually recognized at Dalhousie, and in
a year or two will come from the ranks
of the present freshmen class the leaders
of the student body, in executive work,
in athletics, and in scholarship.

Athletics and the college paper are two
things which are indispensable to the reputation and growth of outside activities
Through these channels we make known
to the world at large what is going on within the university. Both have a distinct
place, the former to build up physical fibre,
and the latter to strengthen literary talents,

Above all, read the periodicals published under the University name; particularly the Dalhousie Review. There
are many students who neglect the weighty matter of the Review for the lighter
reading of the Gazette. This fault should
Review takes second

returning once more to the scenes of past | place to no periodical in Canada, and from
labors, to renew old acquaintances, and to it’s pages students may glean a knowledge

continue their courses of study.

are coming to the university for the first | prove t
Those who have been here before | demands of students that they know a lit
time.
have found out from experience that one
of the greatest lessons to be learned is Selfreliance—the ability to manage one’s own
affairs satisfactorily.

Freshmen are very fortunate nowadays
in being provided with competent advisers who give personal attention to each
individual student, helping them map
out the course they will follow during the
three or four years required for their degree, and who may generally be relied upon for any additional advice that may be
required throughout the term. Students
who are registering at the University for
the first time will do well to get acquainted with these advisers. The adviser 1s
here for their use. lf they make use of
him, they will escape many of the difficulties which beset the students of former
years, who were left more or less to their
own resources in planning their lists of
classes. Still, there may be one cr two
bits of advice that has been overlcoked

Others | of contemporary

 

|

happenings which will
useful on any occasion. Scciety
tle of everything, and for this reason if
for no other, it is well to keep abreast the
times. How many students could join
in a conversation about the political affairs of Italy if they were invited out to
dinner to-night, and such was the topic?
Not many! But those who have read
Mr. John Murray’s article entitled “Mussolini and Fascism’’ in the July issue of
the Review, could, 1 think, be relied upon
to tnake, without the slightest hesitation,
some very intelligent remarks.

And now, Freshmen, just one more piece
of advice: use your dictionaries. You
will be told time and again in your classes
in English that the mark of a college man
is that he spells correctly. Do not let this
advice go unheeded. If you haven’t a
good dictionary, get one immediately;
otherwise you will be like a ship without
a rudder tossed to and fro upon a boisterous ocean of themes.

W. P,

 

 

 

 
       

Il also | it was decided that in view of the extensive

of| program already mapped out for the term
-}it would be impracticable to undertake
a|another contest. In consequence, the
|secretary was instructed to send regrets
d | coupled with a hope that a meeting might
| be arranged in the future.

Owing to the resignation of the secre
-treasurer, a vacancy was created on
the executive and Rod. McLeod, Art’s
26, was elected to that office.

The officers for the year 1925-26 are:
President—Walter E. Darby.
Vice-president—Miss Allison Fitz Randolph.

Secretary-Treasurer—Rod. McLeod.

Q. E

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”
(Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
I Artuur L. Murpuy, 26.

  
   
 
 

   
  
 
   
    
   
        
    
 
  

    

mittee complete discretion as to the
ual ae he teams. One trial debate
only will be held although at least three

    
 

 

 

rt r
T

Associate Editors:

Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
Avis H. Marsuatt, 27.
Josepu F. McManus, 26.
Ronatp Hayes, 26.
WARREN Pus.icover, 26.

Financial Editor:

Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
ye Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

 

To the new Professors and Students of Dalhousie—hearty greetings; and to the old—welcome back. The Gazette wishes to all a
happy and a prosperous college year.

For many years past the editors of the Gazette have made ardent
appeals to the student body to support their paper, but with little
avail. Unfortunately, perhaps, contributions to this publication
are not made obligatory for the reception of a degree. It is not
then a written law that you take an active interest in the Gazette.
It is merely a matter of honor and pride. It hurts us to use a qualifying term such as “merely’’, possibly it hurts you more, but we
really feel that you deserve it.

We, the editors, are only the assemblers and conductors of the
publication. The responsibility of supplying the material falls upon you. The students do not seem to realize that in criticising the
Gazette they are heaping blame upon their own heads. It is true

that in the history of this paper there have been several years during
which the editors have given it neither sufficient time nor attention.
We promise that during the ensuing year the Gazette shall be edited
as well as is possible with the material received. This leaves the
matter entirely in your hands. _ |

The Gazette is the official organ of the under graduate body of

Dalhousie and as such its copies may be found scattered here and
there, all over the continent and even across the water. You glow
with righteous pride when our rugby or hockey teams are victorious.
ui are proud because they reflect credit upon all Dalhousians.
_ Our debaters have won great renown for us all. But you must real
ize that theGazette is a much more powerful weapon than all of these.
_ It may hew paths and byways from our University to the uttermost
* eorners of the earth, while if improperly controlled it turns its blade

upon our breasts. So we appeal to you. Contribute to your paper

and contribute freely. If your offers are at first rejected keep trying,

The “Literary D,”’ one of the highest awards that may be obtained in your whole college life will be the recompense for your
literary endeavors, if they are really persistent endeavors. Your
efforts will not enrich the editors, our appeal is for your own sake
and for the sake of Dalhousie.

 

   

poy
' *

> et

Professor James M.
MacDonald

Professor Macdonald, who is in charge
of the Department of Commerce this
year, is a Nova Scotian by birth, but
has lived in the United States practically
all his life.

Mr. Macdonald is a graduate from St.
F. X. in Arts in 1923. While attending
this College he specialized in Economics. He was for three years a member of
the Xaverian staff and during that time
showed that he possessed high literary
attainments. For the four years Mr.
Macdonald attended St. F. X., he was a
member of the varsity footbail squad and
was regarded as the best fullback in the
intercollegiate league. He was the essay
Our New Professors

Horace Emmerson Reid, B.
As, U.1.M.

~ During the past summer the announcement of the appointment of H. E. Read,
as the third full time professor on the
staff of our Law School was made; and
there was everywhere apparent a general
pression of approval.

orn in Amherst, N. S., Professor Read
entered Acadia University in 1915, but
shortly afterwards enlisted for overseas
service, where he distinguished himself,
both in the Infantry and in the R. F. C.
Returning to Canada in 1919 he re-entered

 

 
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 

Acadia and completed his Arts course in | ist of his class at the convocation exercises,
- __- 1921. While at Acadia, Prof. Read had an | reading a paper on “Labor and Capital.”
Se For the past two years he has been

enviable record, distinguishing himself in

class room, social and athletic activities. | attending Harvard and this year he was

   

_In the fall of 1921, Prof. Read entered |awarded a Master's degree from the
the Dalhousie Law School, and, as at|Harvard School of Business AdminisAcadia, was outstanding as an all round | tration.
man. In his final year he served as editor | - The Gazette welcomes Professor Mac
of the Gazette and was also treasurer of | donald to Dathousie.
 theS.C. A. After his graduation in 1924
iced his profession in Truro for

aa)
he oracticecd

 

_ Professor H. P. Bels has served time in
jail as a result of his Dalhousie undergraduate activities.

   
 

short time, but in the fall of 1924 he
red Harvard to pursue post graduate
adies in law. Here he again distin
e tished himself, - ag a scholarship
in International Law. He was one of six
1 sful candidates, of a large number

 

 

      
 

A Complete

 
 

Z *: 2 oS pelea Master of Laws degree M ° 1 S °
Pr aeor R ead’s frien ds are _predicti usica ervice
i ecesmahoal nthe INSTRUMENTS

 
 

———
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

 
   
 

 

 
 

Pik, ji
fe ae J RorR Nee othe Dost Clansical,
; rofe or George E, Wilson was an out-|] = SONGS :

  

PHINNEYS Limited

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The Dalhousie Review is considered one
of the best literary magazines on the
continent.

To Canada

 

Groan not my country in this hour of
darkness,

Despair within thy bounds should enter
ne’er

To her, the stormy realms where mad
Division

‘Rattles her knuckles in the scream-shook
air.

To these a little toiling till the morrow,
A little patient waiting through the

night,

A draught of Hope to cheer thy cup of
Sorrow,

To thee a lamp to guide thy steps aright.

To thee that lamp lit by the hero sages,

Fed by the fuel patriot hands supply,

Dispelling doubt where sectional whispers
linger

And sordid genii in the shadows Le.

To thee the bursting splendors of the

morning
When patriot heart finds patriot’s dream
come true,
When eager from the stranger’s land
returning,
Thy homesick children shall return anew.

—H. A: DD.

Dalhousie Students

You can save considerable, and

dollars in some cases, by buying

college supplies at our store—
such as

Pencils
Fountain Pens
Index Supplies
Etc.

Bound Note Books

Loose Leaf Note Books
Loose Leaf Refills
Drawing Paper

Frank M. O'Neill & Co. Ltd.

Commercial Stationers

152 GRANVILLE STREET

 

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS

College Christmas Cards

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

 

From The Mail
Bas

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,

Dear Sir.—

This little letter is to set forth a discovered case where the law of the Conservation of Energy is decidedly not a fact.
And that place is in the very stronghold
of sugh fads and fancies no less than the
Department of Chemistry itself. A student taking a class in Physics is furnished
with laboratory outlines of his procedure
in experimental work. The same applies
to the courses in Biology. So also in
Chemistry 1A. But—and here the rub
comes—when the same student starts in
at Qualitative Analysis, Chemistry 2 or
2A, he sits in agony as he gets proceedure
dictated to him for literally hours on end.
One is moved to enquire if it is making
the best use of the students time to have
him act as an automatic recording machine
for such a large portion of his time when
he could be doing laboratory experiments
from mimeographed or typed sheets, containing the same directions for work. A
little action, please, gentlemen; we all
realize that it is just a matter of oversight.

Hoping 1 have not taken up too much
of your valuable space,

Yours very truly,
Writer’s Cramp.

The Editor of the Gazette:

Dear Sir:—

In a recent issue of the Dalhousie Alumni News’’ a letter appears bearing on the
“Dalhousie Gazette”’ and subjecting it to
severe. criticism. The writer complains
generally of the lack of enthusiasm and of
public expression of student opinion, causing the Gazette to deteriorate rapidly, asa
college paper. In particular he refers to
errors in proof-reading, spelling and imposition, which has placed the Gazette in
an exceedingly bad light among its reviewers and among its readers generally.

This critism is so evidently just that
all loyal supporters of the Gazette cannot
afford to overlook it, reflecting as it does
on the standard of the whole student body.
With ail due consideration to those who

eS Senses

 

where it is due, especially to the staff which

have contributed to the Gazette and to
those who have governed its policy, it
must be admitted that the Gazette has
not in the past, performed the legitimate
functions of a college paper. There can
be only one excuse for this deficiency and
that is the lack of a proper college spirit;
so oftened extolled in your columns; and
the enthusiasm and pride in its organizations,

Before condemning the Gazette altogether however, credit must be given

has worked under difficulties in past years.
The general form of the Gazette, itself,
was not conducive to writers generally.
With lack of support from the student
body, the Gazette was being filled with
much extraneous and superfluous matter
not of general interest. The sports reports, residence notes, report of meetings
and dances were all that remained to comprise an eight page paper. Articles, essays
and short stories rapidly decreased, leaving the Gazette in a very decrepit position.
It was soon realized by the staff and its
supporters that the state of affairs could
not continue and it is to their credit that the
very critcisms of the writer in the ‘‘Alumni News”’ were appreciated by them, long
before his letter went to press.

The writer then will, no doubt, be
greatly pleased to see the Gazette sally
forth in new form and start the present
college year with new stimulus, with its
required dignity, afforded by the energy
and good will of its supporters. The
New Gazette is an appeal in itself for ail
literary aspirants and it is urgently desired that new support will be given it
from old and new contributors and that
the Gazette will receive its due consideration as an expression of the opinion and
the student body of Dalhousie.

The chief functions of a college paper
in the opinion of the writer would be to
keep the students in touch with the various
phases of college life, its organizations
and societies, its sports and entertainments, its achievements at home and
abroad and at all times to serve as an
expression of student opinion and the
degree of its culture only in observing
these ideals can a college paper receive
support and achieve success in its own
branch of college life.

It is, then, to the interest of us all to
support the Gazette and it is earnestly
hoped by all who are interested in the Gazette that it will this year, receive the support of every loyal Dalhousian and make
it what it deserves to be, a credit to the
university.
truly,

R.

Shirreff Hall
Returns

“Oh,! hello there! Well look who's
here. There’s Beth! Oh its good to get
back! Did you have a nice summer?
Have you seen Kate? Oh, yes, Joan’s
back and Carrie is coming tonight. Have
you seen Kit’s new evening dress? It’s
a dream. No, Peggy isn’t coming.”

Such were the excited ejaculations and
scraps of conversation which fell on the
ears of the listener at Shirreff Hall, during
the two or three days preceding the opening of Classes. It was the same jolly
bunch who had gone out in the Spring to
spend their vacations, scattered far and
wide over the.country—the same excepting last year’s Seniors. New faces take
their place but its not just the same without the old friends. A few to our delight
surprised us and came back. Yes—the
old bunch, changed by a coat of tan o1
additional apparel, with skirts slightly
abbreviated so that even the Freshies
have difficulty in singling out the Seniors
from their midst. Some have lost their
long tresses—some have nearly lost their
short ones, but with it all they’re the
same girls—Dalhousie girls. Many of
the Freshies had arrived early in the week
to write Scholarship and Matric. examms,
and they formed an interested and curious
background as the old girls arrived.

So here’s another year ahead of us, and
our happy reunion brings its responsibilities as well as pleasures. Of course
Miss Lowe is again with us for we could
not think of Shirreff Hall apart from Miss
Lowe. With her winning smile, unfailing idealism and trust in us in spite of
criticism, and her sense of right and honor—
she’s just a part of us and we couldn't
do without her.

The Shirreff Hall Self-governing As
Yours

 

‘sociation has had its first meeting ably

chaired by our House President, Florence
R. MacMullen who is doing much to
make the new girls feel at ease, and to
create a homey atmosphere among our
corridors. The House Committee consists of the President with Jean Messinger
(Vice pres.) Elizabeth Morton, (Secty.,)
Harriet Roberts (Sr. representative), roe
ence Sedgewick (Jr. representative), Keltie Holman, (Soph. representative), Mabel
Borden (fire-chief) and Jean Cox (librarian). With these rests the administration of our family life.

{ reviewed the law

 

October, 21, 1925

Serenading seems to be in vogue this
season for several nights our repose has
been broken by the deep boom of college
yells, and the musical (?) notes of our
popular songs. Such a revival of old
time gallantry is pleasing, though in many
instances quite amusing, when the serenaders appear in weird and unsightly
garb, more like dumb (?) driven cattle
than youthful Lochinvars! Though the
season is late the ‘Arm’ holds its attractions. Canoeing is popular and some
enthusiasts still follow the daughters of
Neptune. The woods beyond is beginning to proffer its wealth of colored leaves,
enticing nature-lovers to long hikes in the
fresh-air.

And so it goes on—'‘Have you a hard
course this year? Did you have a good
time at the “Students Council’? Have
you met Dick—he’s a Freshman, not
much of a dancer. Have you a bid to the
Freshie-Soph? Got a Latin II book to
sell, got a Logic?

A. F.

 

‘Moot Court Holds
First Session

 

The Dalhousie Moot Court reopened for
the 1925 session on Friday, Oct. 9th
with all its time-honored solemnity, To
the stentorian tones of Crier Attwood the
court was called to order and amidst a
silence that was profound the judges
entered and took their seats.

The gentlemen appointed to fill the
honoured positions on the bench were D
1. McLean as Chief Justice, C. R. Coughlan
and J. E. Longley and that they were admirably qualified to fill these exalted positions, the capable manner in which they
conducted a highly technical and deeply
involved case is ample testimony. From
the opening of the case to its adjournment
they were continually mindful of their
position and nothing could be more in
keeping with the dignity of the occasion
than the austere wave of Mr. Justice
Coughlan’s hand or the domineering
frown of Mr. Justice Longley.

The case for consideration of the court
was an action for damages arising from
the negligent operation of a motor car by
one Brown, as a result of which a young
lady named Smith suffered a severe nervous breakdown and claimed heavy damages against the driver of the car. Huggins, K. C., and Walsh appeared for the
appellant, Brown, whilst Williams, K. C
=o Godsoe shewed cause on behalf of the
ady.

Walsh junior counsel fo

r the appellant opened the case ne

and in an able man: ‘Was to remoteness of
damage and in real Ciceronian style shewed
the attitude of the English courts regarding damage resulting from shock. He
analaysed the case at bar with the decision of the judicial Committee of the
Privy Council in the Coaltas case and
held that the Court was bound by that
decision. : :

Huggins, K. C., senior counsel for the
appellant followed, and in a masterful
address lasting something more than an
hour he exhausted all the English authorities on the matter and would have
done likewise with the American but forthe
unfortunate fact that the reports ceased
at volume one hundred and seventy
three. Mr. Huggin’s address however
was a masterpiece of forensic achievement and was certainly on a par with any
plea that has ever been heard before the
Moot Court Bench of Dalhousie. In his
speech he continued the forensic qualities
of an Erskine with the research of a
McCardy and as a result put forth a presentation of his cause which reflected
greatest credit on himself and all justice
to his school.
be At the close of Mr. Huggin’s address,
Godsoe junior counsel for the respondent
opened the case for the injured lady and
he was followed by Williams senior
council, who indeed was not surpassed by
Huggins in the capable manner in which
he handled his case, Eloquent, clear
logically arranged are some of the att.
ributes which were applied to his very
able address. His presentation showed
careful preparation and exhaustive research while his attempt at differentiation
from the Coultas case was a spark of
forensic genius and if not appreciated by
the Court in its decision it will be because
of the binding effect of precedent rather
than to an unfavourable impression of the
soundness of the instruction.

At the close of the case His Lordship
the Chief Justice commended the respective counsel on their able addresses
and expressed the hope that in future
trials, the counsel would endeavour to maintain the precedent which they had established. In reference to the weight
and refinement of the arguments put
forward His Lordship said that the Court
would reserve judgment until the coming
week in order to give due consideration
to the contentions advanced.

 

  

STUDENTS

Consult
=H. W. Cameron =p" 5;
Cor. Sackville and Barrington Sts. Phone Sack. 2728 for Appointment

Guard YOUR SIGHT

SIGHT

 
     

 
  
  
 
  
  
     
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
   
 
   
 
    
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
   

  

,
+

=)
nae",
os
=

a

oe
fg

a.
=.

oT

r i
a

aE
1
iy

ee ae

ead by nearly as
“serves.

a ta
she

4 ; ‘ q
rat ra
;

iy
‘ *
Fe Ay 5
a

- - _ e

aa oP
at

._ L.A. Lovett, K.

from Cape Breton.

ec || 437 Barrington Street


October 21, 1925

L,
+

“The Canadian
Stud ent.’’

is a noteworthy, appealing little
s in this Dominion that is not
many patrons as it de5 This paper so small but so valuable is the “Canadian Student,” or, as it

 

is sometimes called “A Venturer in Opinjon.” lt is written by students for stu
dents and contains material that should
interest students. In the October ediion it is expected that several articles written by Dalhousie undergraduates will appear and thus Dal claims a share in it.
pes be that there are many here,— or
there, who would like to venture some
opinion; if so the magazine is ready to re
ceive any such contributions. Or is may
be, that some would like to have an opin
jon to venture; if such is the case procure
a@ magazine, read it, and a reactionary
pinion is almost certain to come. In
formation regarding subscriptions or con
tributions may be obtained by applying

to the Gazette or to a member of the Stu
dent Christian Movement.

 

Cable Address: “‘McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Soticitors &c.
HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.-C. Macdonald, K. C.
ok Jenks, K. C “F A. Chipman

merce
Marines

The Department of Commerce enters
upon the new ae oes en and oa
ising prospects. e Society is gla
icaine Professor J. M. MacDonald,
Dean of the Department during the absence of Professor Hunt, who 1s taking
post-graduate work at Harvard. |
The enrolment in Commerce this Aap
wi

 

 

 

is slightly larger than last year,
total of about thirty-five.

The first meeting of the Commerce Society which was held on Tuesday, Oct.
6th was well represented. There were
quite a few new faces, but unfortunately
all of one sex. | ne ;

A social committee was appointed, conisting of H. C. “Shorty” Grant, Harry
Dusten, and Helen An to arrange
f party in the near future. _

"Eimer Doyle was elected chairman of
the sport’s committee.

The officers this year are as follows:
President—H. C. Morton.
Vice-President—M. Irene MacDougall.

- Secretary-Treasurer—Arthur E. Jubien.

Executive—J. L. MacQuarrie and Ruth

Bye is well represented in football this year, with our new professor
‘Big Jim” MacDonald as fullback on the
first team and F. S. “Cutie Smith, a
newcomer in Commerce on the second
team. lt appears that “Big Jim” is as
«apable on the football field as in the class
- room.

tulations are due to Ted ChipRese: year's graduate, who has made
the Wanderer’s first team this year.
The Commerce Society will be represented at the coming track meet by Leigh
Miller, a 10 2-5 seconds man in the hundred and R. D. Matheson, a “dark horse

ACSEX J:

     
       
     
   
     
   
    

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service | The Home of the Shingle

Gf Majestic Theatre Building and
mq Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

| Winters-Burns Ltd.

EXCLUSIVE AGENTS FOR

   
  

| | Society Brand Clothes

|| Correct Dress For STUDENTS

 

  

Social Notes
Dalhousie Wedding Bells

Bronson—Colpitt.—On July seventeenth in St. Andrew’s United Church,
Halifax, Miss Merle Colpitt, B. A. ’17,
was united in marriage with Howard L.
Bronson, Professor of Physics at Dalhousie. Both the bride and the groom are
very popular in college circles, and their
many friends join in wishing them all
happiness.

Cameron—Moffat. —A wedding of
great interest took place in August when
Dr. John Cameron, Professor of Anatomy
at Dalhousie University was married at
Mount Feredith, Forfas, Scotland, to
Miss Elsie Stewart Moffat. Those who
have had the pleasure cf meeting Mrs.
Cameron since their arrival in Halifax,
are charmed and many have been the
sincere good wishes for their future happiness.

Gilchrist—Killam—An event of especial interest to Dalhousians took place
in the United Memorial Church, Halifax,
when Frances H. Killam and W. Sidney
Gilchrist were united in marriage by Rev.
C. J. Crowdis. After a brief motor trip
to the Valley, the happy couple left for
Edmonton, Alberta, where the groom will
complete his medical course. Mrs. Gilschrist is a very popular young lady and
was formerly a member of Arts ’27. Both
he and his bride carry with them the best
wishes of their many college friends.

Magee—Moriarty.—A - wedding of
great interest to Dalhousians in general
was solemnized during the early summer
in the Cathedral of St. Paul (Episcopal)
in the city of Cincinnatti, Ohio. The
principals in the wedding were Mabel
Angela daughter of Dr. and Mrs. James
Magee, of St. John, N. B., a graduate of
Dentistry "24, and Clarence Francis (Dennis) Moriarty, son of Mr. and Mrs. P. F.
Moriarty of Halifax, and a graduate of
Medicine ’25. Both the bride and groom
are now practising their respective profession together in Virginia.

MacOdrum—Arlitz.—A wedding in
which recent graduates of Dalhousie will
‘be particularly interested is that of M.
Maxwell MacOdrum, Arts ’23 and Miss
Muriel Lisetta Arlitz.

The marriage was solemnized August
6th, 1925 in the Congregational Church,
Elizabethtown, N. Y., at which place
the bridé’s parents have their summer
home. The bride is the only daughter
vf Dr. and Mrs. Wm. Jerome Arlitz, of
Hoboken, N. J., and was pursuing her
Studies at McGill University where
“Max” has been lecturing in English,
The groom is the eldest son of Rev. and
Mrs. D. MacOdriim of Brockville, Ont.,
formerly of St. Andrew’s Church, Halifax.

“Max” and his bride sailed on Sept.
24th for Scotland, Max being appointed
to the faculty of the University at Glasgow.

‘*There was a
Sound of Revelry
by Night.’’

“The Sophomores in their glory” with
their “inferior” classmen as actors staged
a really delightful entertainment at the
first meeting of Delta Gamma.

A most noticeable feature of the company was the number and variety of
actors in its possession. One was amazed to see, in the same company, the
prize rabbits from the Spokane Zoo and
the renowned Emerson graduate, Prof.
Cameron; the original Solomon Levi and
the new chieftain of the MacGregor clan,
the world champion for the yard dash and
the strangest phenomena ever seen in
Shirreff Hall—the homesick girl. All these
however, were there and besides, many
others of note. It seems scarcely credible that such a motley company could
be gathered in so short a time.

It was only a natural consequence that
the entertainment itself was varied. Our
rabbit friends performed what we believe
must have been the latest “Charleston
bunny hop.” Our negro _ performers,
who gave us a song and dance, should not
be passed by without special reference to
their elegant costumes, in which every
possible shade of red, rose, and pink were
blended most harmoniously.

An exceedingly noteworthy addition
to the company was “Miss Fix ’em up” and
her Beauty Parlors. ‘Miss Frizz’ proved herself a most artistic hairdresser while
the chiropodist and the manicurist ‘‘Miss
Nails” both were most efficient in their
services. Ladies, having given themselves over to the art of the latter, left
with nails beautifully blackened and
polished. No doubt the success of the
“Beauty Parlors’ was due to the fact
that scrubbing brushes and carpenters
files played a large part in the manicuring
process.

The worthy debaters, on the one side
“The Hens” and on the other the Eggs
(each labelled to avoid confusion) gave a
most enlightening debate on the interesting subject “which came first, the hen or
the egg?” To these eloquent speakers
much credit must be given and especially
to the afore-mentioned “Prof. Cameron.”
ln his speech “The Superiority of the
Sophomores over the Freshettes’’ he gave
abundant evidence of his profound wit.
At a critical moment he burst forth ‘'The
Sophomores must acknowledge their in
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

feriority”—(here, he was interrupted by
loud cries from the lordly Sophomores
but he went on undaunted) “They must
acknowledge their inferiority’’—a pause
—‘to the Seniors.”

Much praise is due both to the Sophomore managers, for producing such a performance and to the Freshettes for acting
so well their allotted parts.

After each trembling Freshette had
done her bit the rules were read. Besides
the usual respect and servitude demanded,
the Freshettes were required to appear
out, rain or shine until the Freshie-Soph
Dance, with umbrellas up, and with little
white caps perched on their heads. Thus
the Sophomores did their work, and the
girls of Class ’29 were initiated.

The Students’
Council Entertains

 

Monday evening, October 5th.—Forecast-Rain.—a sure sign that a Dal. dance
was being held. Even the all powerful
Student’s Council were impotent to control the elements but, withal, made the
dance a very enjoyable one. Before the
dancing began, Mr. Blenus Morton, President of the Council, addressed the new
students in well chosen words of welcome,
smoothly blended with a little advice.
Allie MacLean and his orchestra furnished
an excellently syncopated programme.

The chaperones for the evening were
Professor and Mrs. Murray Macneill,
Professor and Mrs. Henry Munroe, Mr.
and Mrs. Stirling and Miss Margaret
Lowe. Rod MacLeod was chairman of
the committee in charge of the dance.

 

 

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four PrRessincs

$2.00

 

 

 

Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428

BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

The various buildings of the Medical
School have been the scene of quiet but
withal industrious activity since registration on September 8th. There were of
course, the preliminary renewal of old
and the forming of new friendships.

All reported strenuous summer, many
with more or less lucrative results, and in
a multitude of varied pursuits. There
was, however, a universal feeling of happiness to be back amongst familiar faces
and in familiar haunts, even at the price
of having to commence the old grind once
more,

The first thing of note was the convention of the American College of Surgeons,
held in conjunction with Dalhousie’s postgraduate course. Many of the senior
students took advantage of attending
these various lectures and clinics, and had
the pleasure of hearing some of the most
noted medical men on the continent.
Both courses were largely attended by
out-of-town practitioners, many of them
renewing friendships made during their
college days.

For the year 1925-26 there are some 120
students registered in the Medical Faculty. This is a considerable decrease from
last year, due to the fact that the graduating class ’"25 was exceptionally large,
and also that this year, first year medical
students are registered in the Faculty of
Arts and Science.

The annual, meeting of the Medical
Society was held in the Munro Room on
Sept. 24, and if the enthusiasm shown
at that meeting is any criterion, we predict that the Medical Society is due for
the most prosperous and interesting year
of its career. The officers for the ensuing
year are:— *

First President—J. W. Merritt.
Second President—Ed. Cameron.
First Secretary—I. G. Macdonald.
Second “ —J. R. McLean.
Executive Member—G. A. Winfield.

The annual Medical dance will be held
in the Gymnasium on Nov. 3rd. This
will be the third dance of the season and
the committee in charge expects this season’s function to be even more successful
than that of other years.

We note with pleasure that the efficient
professorial staff of last year remains intact, several of them have during the summer been carrying on scientific research
work, while others were indulging in activities of a more or less frivolous nature.
Mr. Cameron, the genial professor of
anatomy has returned from holidaying
in Scotland, accompanied by his bride,

 

and is receiving congratulations from a
host of friends among the students as well
as throughout the city.

The latest addition to the medical
building is the Pathological Institute,
completed during the summer. The Institute although not yet completely equipped, is one of the best of its kind in Canada and compares favorably with the
best institutions on the continent. It
affords facilities for modern instruction
in Bacteriology and Pathology as well as
in other medical subjects.

J. I. M.

From the
Exchange
Editor’s Desk

Although the usual large ‘‘stack”’ of
college papers has not yet started to pour
in, the Exchange Editor is in receipt of a
few interesting specimens. Among those
to be given first mention, is the ‘‘Merchiston." This monthly from Edinbourgh,
is a magazine of formidable size aud has
a creditable list of contents. A considerable portion is devoted to athletic news
and college “gossip,”’ but the redeeming
feature is it’s literary contributions from
former graduates and it’s interesting and
illustrated talks on the beauty of foreign
countries, mountains, and cities. One
would conjecture that this periodical must
be under the supervision of the Merchiston
Faculty, thus accounting for the lack of
time-worn jokes, which, by-the-by seems
to constitute an (important item in the
make-up of other college papers,) and for
the insertion of a Latin poem, marking
an advance in the right direction and one
worthy of being foltowed.

“The McGill Daily,”’ which is universally acknowledged as a prodigious undertaking, furnishes an excellent example of
the kind of paper which appears as an
abridged edition of the American ‘‘College
Humor.”’ In every other respect it is a
capital paper, a leader amongst college
issues and worthy of the institution whose
name it upholds. The editing of it must
prove a difficult undertaking and no doubt
these “‘unacknowledged’’ jokes relieve
the editor’s mind of considerable worry
and uneasiness regarding space to be

 

| filled.

That High School paper from Michigan,
called ““The Ypsi Sem,” is really a credit
to its school, and is evidence of keen interest, organization, industry, and teamwork on the part of the student body
there.

It is greatly to be lamented that the
“Brunswickan”’ and it’s container parted
company somewhere along the route from
Fredericton to Halifax. Whether the
mail clerk was only curious or was really
seeking literary stimulus we can only surmise, but nevertheless, only the container
reached the Editor’s desk at Dalhousie.
However, we await with added interest
future issues of that paper, and trust they
will arrive at their destination intact.

A late issue of “The McGill Daily”’ in
mentioning rules for Freshmen, quotes
the following which could be practiced
very profitably by all Dalhousians, old

and new:

(1) Learn as many of the college songs |
as you can, and all the yells.

(2) Remove your Cap on entering
any university building.

(3) Uncover when passing the Presi
dent or Dean of your Faculty.

That weekly from Mount Allison, called
“The Argosy Weekly,” seems a very
cheery and newsy paper. The vivid descriptions of Freshmen initiation were particularly interesting. The
of Rupert Brooke, and the review of Dr.
Trueman’s lecture on Canada and the
Need of Unselfish Labor, are really valuable assets to the paper and marks a step
in the direction that it will do well for
other colleges to follow in publishing their
undergraduate papers. A _ well-planned
paper and a decided departure from the
ludicrous.

Wi P,

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

SpeciAL Bospspinc Partors
For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

HAVE YOUR]

Furs Remodelled

All kinds of TRIMMINGS

within reasonable prices.
A Nice Selection of

COATS

I invite you to come and see them

K. GARTEN

Phone S 3611 Spring Garden Road

 

Page Three

Majestic Notes

 

It is many years since Dalhousie students have had an opportunity of seeing
such dramatic talent as is being presented
by the Glossop-Harris Company, at the
Majestic. The stage is the only medium
through which a true appreciation of
Shakespeare may be gained, and the student body should take full advantage of the
presence of this Company. “Othello,”
one of Shakespeare’s greatest tragedies
is now being played. See it tonight!

The other plays are all distinctive in
their respective fields, and are being
most admirably presented by their versatile interpreters. ‘‘Charley’s Aunt” will
run the last three days of the week. Written by Brandon Thomas, it is the greatest
modern farce on the stage. It has been
played continuously in London, for the
past twenty-five years, and has been translated into more than a dozen languages.
Mr. Harold Young, who appears in the
leading role, has played for two years with
the original production.

English Pref—The only words George
ll could speak in English were swear
words.

Little Freshette—l didn’t get the last
sentence.

English Prof.—l said he only knew
swear words, you know—bad words—
er a, for instance gosh and dear me.

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and College Text Books

Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

You know the rest of this

ALPHA BETA alphabet, but won't you

learn the music from a Music Dealer's Text Book.
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

 

appreciation |

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR

FICTION LENDING SOCIETY

2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of/expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harr Curtine is sure
to satisfy. Lapies’ Hair\Curtine in all
styles; also CurLInc, SHAMPOOING and
MassaGinc. One trial will convince,

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

41 }Sackville S¢
 

Phone S 4780

 

For Distinctive Style and
All-round Excellency

*‘Astoria’’
SHOES

For Men

Stand out as the Leaders in
Canadian Footwear.

W.L. Tuttle

SHOE DEALER

Barrington St., Spring Garden Road
and Dartmouth

 

 
 

 

   

a eeecs

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

   
      

 

Ree Badminton
League

 

 

Dalhousie—Acadia

 

In a game replete with thrills, excite
The first meeting of the Badminton | ment and humour plus, to satisfy even the

League was held during the Oct. 2nd week.
Last years league was a decided success,
but if this enthusiastic meeting can be

considered a forerunner then the success | pond, 6-0.

this year will be even greater. The officials elected were:
President—Murray Rankin.

Secretary-Treasurer—E. Doyle.

| Join The Fencing
j : Class

Fencing is going to be a popular sport
at Dalthis year. Mr. Fielding, who made
quite a reputation at this Art at McGill
t and Toronto Varsity, has kindly offered
his services to Mr. Sterling in aiding the
instructors and getting the sport under
way. Alread a large number have

“signed up"’ for the class.

Dalhousie Swimming Team

Two years ago, under the able leader
‘ ship of Dr. Barry Shaffner of the Dental

D Schoo! of this University, Dalhousie form
a ed a swimming team which was in as high

a class as. any in the Maritime Provinces.

This team fully justified the expenditure
involved in its existence.

Last r interest lapsed owing to the
graduation of the manager and of several
members of the previous year’s squad, but
in 1925-26 prospects are very bright for a
most successful season. The matter has
been. put before the D. A. A. C.
and approyed. The Y. M. C. A. has

been: i -as to the use of the tank
preement has -practically been

reached.
oe those who will be out to make
the team are Jack Burchell, who unofficially broke the Canadian record for
- fifty yards at this season’s Waegwoltic
sports, Ewan Clark, one of the best in the
i Maritimes, Fabian "Rockingham who has
oo been rounding into form in Barbados this
fs summer, Art Murphy, who is fast at the
f shorter distances, Don MacInnes who was
a member of the Squad of ’23, as well as
, other swimmers of ability.
It is intended to challenge both the Y.
M. C. A. and Acadia and to enter our
best swimmers in the Maritime Championship indoor meet. We look for the_fi» nancial and moral support of the Dalhousie student body.

Big Doings At The
Glee Club

This evening at 8 o’clock in the G a
hasium, the Glee and Dramatic Clu

starting the ball rolling for the biggest year
on record. There will be both drama and
glee in abundance to-night, and then
some. One of the most screaming farce
comedies on record, “The Camberley

 

 

 

    
     
  
 

 

 

Triangle,’ by A. A. Milne will be presented, followed by a musical treat that
will make everybody step forward and ask
for more.

Those taking the principal
in the play are: Miss Cha rlotta
possan, and Messrs. Rod MacLeod and

ter Elliston. Miss Hazel Pearson is

i the performance. The “Tni
ore is a domestic one, but not of the

| usual variety, and ends up in a most

‘ unusual way. The well-known Medical
Society evhestra will provide several num
bers, and there will a be musical treats of

other kinds also, not to speak of Group

Singing. Ofcourse the usual little inform
al dance will follow. Altogether, every
| thing points to an outstanding beginning
b of an outstanding season, and the Gym.
' will doubtless be well filled to-night.

 

      

The yee Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices. 3: 3: ot:

- Light Lunches and Ice Cream

| ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

   
            
  

 

  

 

most thrill seeking female and the most
caustic rugby pessimist, Dalhousie defeated Acadia at the latter’s rugby

It could hardly be called a rugby game,
being played in water with here and there
an added bit of land showing; while the
heavy downpour of rain made all the
players confirmed Baptists of the first
degree—yet it gave the Dalhousie squad
the first opportunity to display their versatility, and their adeptness at water-polo.
Without the advantage of a swimming
tank such as the Acadians possess, yet
Dalhousie, from the most impartial point
of view, completely surpassed the red and
blue in all points of the game. Their
dribbling, (and it was dribbling) was only
surpassed by that of the rain; they were
the fastest swimmers, their “kick’’ being
steadier than their opponents, and as for
diving after the ball, the forwards could
not be excelled. The half-line and quarters also adapted themselves well to their
novel surroundings—and seemed to be
functioning much better than in their
first game.

On the play it would be difficult to
select individual stars, as all well-showed
the effects of their strenuous training—but
to Kelly, McLean must go the honors of
taking the first ‘‘plunge’’ and, so to speak,
“breaking the waters.”

The two teams will meet in a return
match at Studley in the near future, and
if Dal. displays the same superiority then
the cheer leaders should be very busy.

The End Of The
Annual Struggle

On Oct. 14th, 1925 at 8 o'clock the
Dalhousie Gymnasium was once more the
scene of mirth and light heartedness as the
students gaily booked theif dances for the
Annual Freshie-Soph. The Gym. was
artistically decorated with crepe paper
in the verdant colors, green and white,
while the enclosure for the orchestra was a
bower of maple leaves. The music which
was. furnished by McLean’s Orchestra
was particularly good and again’and again

 

For Dalhousians

We have in stock a
very nice line of

English Earthenware

in Yellow and Black
with the Dalhousie
Crest thereon.
The line consists of

Tracurs, Saucers, 3 Sizes
Pirates, Cake PLiatEs,
TEAPOTS, SUGAR AND
Cream Sets, Erc.

and is most moderately priced

COME IN AND SEE IT

BALDWIN & CO.

446 Barrington St.

 

Students, Please

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

the seventeen dances were encored. The
Freshmen and Freshettes for whom the
dance was given seemed this year more
than ever to enter into the spirit of the
entertainment, and much credit is due to
the able committee of seven of which Bob
Doull was the chairman, and to the chaperones, Dr. and Mrs. MacMechan, Dr.
and Mrs. Cameron, Professor Bell and
Miss Lowe. Supper was served at 11
o'clock and the dancing resumed until
12.30 when God Save the King was
played and everyone departed voting this
year's Freshie-Soph. the best yet.

D. E. B.

But Important

Y OUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat

may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLLar
you wear—it is the one article of
dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
| that confidence which comes from
good grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no wellressed man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,
which is so acceptable.

L 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry
85 West St.

The Leading
Halifax Theatres

Direction J. F. O'CONNELL

MAJESTIC teatre

NOW PLAYING

 

English Repertory

GLOSSIP-HARRIS CO.

STRAND THEATRE

Musical Comedy

 

and Vaudeville

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE

Optometrist & Optician Y. M.C. A. Bldg.

Take Notice-
that we carry a full stock of Pens and Pencils, including the products of Waterman, Parker and Wahl Pens and Eversharps, and
that we maintain a SERVICE STATION where we give prompt

and accurate service on repairs and replacements.

We also carry a

full stock of goods for GIFT SEEKERS—the choicest products of

the best factories in many lines.

BUY HERE FOR CHRISTMAS.

COOLEY BROS.

Jewelers

395 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

A Rare Treat Tomorrow

 

On Thursday morning, Oct. 22, the
students and faculty are due for a real ||
treat, when Mr. J. Harry Irvine, of the
Glossop-Harris Company now playing

at the Majestic Theatre, will speak. Mr.
Irvine will lecture at the Gymnasium at
11.30 and he has chosen as his subject
“William Shakespeare—a Human Being.”’
It is a rare thing to have the opportunity
to ‘listen to such an outstanding actor as
Mr. Irvine talk about a subject he knows
so well, and, judging by the number of
people who have expressed the desire to
take advantage of this chance, the Gym.
will be conspicuous by the scarcity of |
vacant seats at 11.30 tomorrow morning. !

 

Freshmen and Freshettes

We have something very
SPECIAL to offer you for
onemonth. Get our prices
on group and individual

PHOTOGRAPHS
“CLIMO”’’

For Distinctive Photographs
501 Barrington St. Phone S 1395

Men’s GLOVES |

of the better quality, “Dent’s,”
“Perrin’s,” “Acme” and other
standard makes. _ Leathers
which are SERVICEABLE,

 

 

Goop Firtine, Styiisu.

$1.50 to $6.50

KELLYS

LIMITED
GRANVILLE STREET

O. Srniet 4g a a
| FOR MEN

Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to keep up appearances.
These very men are the fellows you see
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords
and Spats.
OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Wallace Bros.

yer: 523 BARRINGTON ST. pa age

 

 

 
  
 

goes good---especially if
it is the real quality drink.

‘*PEERLESS”’ in name

and peerless in taste. |

i hatte "aa ae

 

 

 

 

The Dress Shop :

 

 

DRINK

“fen LkSoS”

|
Dry Ginger Ale

Sold Everywhere

When Good Fellows
Get Together

|

|

| |
|

a glass of Ginger Ale

October 21, 1925

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers a2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicns,
also Weppinc Bouguets. We
also do Taste Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists. We can wire

Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

HEADQUARTERS FOR
Reach Sporting Goods

STAR

 

AND AUTOMOBILE
HOCKEY SUPPLIES
HARDWARE AND RADIO SUPPLIES

SKATES

 

Cragg Bros. Comp any

LIMITED

HARDWARE
The Cutlery House of Halifax

HALIFAX

 

The Hat Shop
The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE tia |

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail.

Jensen & MillsCo. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

George F. Power.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos |

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

AL SO-—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
J \\ HALIFAX

  

    
   
   
    
 
 
 
    

 

Rie...
