 

    

  
 

Redlands

Tomorrow

[ (24 a

NOL. EXVIL.

 

Tigers in Classic

3 Win Over Reds

That memorable football machine
Bs of 1929, by which all Dalhousians
_ swear, was once again revived last
Saturday on the Studley campus
when a courageous Gold and Black
team came from oblivion to outfight
as good a Red team as has been seen

in the last decade.
Not given a chance to win by the
_ experts after being on the short end
of a 21-3 score in their previous meeting the Dal team showed a complete
‘reversal of form. While the forwards
were “as good if not better than in
_ former games, it was the deadly
tackling, fast following up, and timely
’ e. ‘punting of the backs that stood forth.
Tas From the point of football it was not
a good game as there was far too
. ‘much whistle and too much offside
> play on the Wanderer’s part, but
_ there were many thrilling moments
which made up for those drawbacks.
-_ All in all_it was a glorious victory
and richly deserved by a team whose
Baerto apparently was “They shall not

 

  
   
   
   
 
 
  
    
     
 

OL From the opening whistle the Wan_ derers with the wind at their backs
pressed aeep into Dal territory and it

in hee fighting and

e anc time again, “The play was

the Dal end for the greater part of

is period, altho’ Stewart attempted

a rs “several long penalty kicks from near
oe a field which fell short.

The break came at about the twenty| five minute mark when Dal commencte ing from deep in her own territory

arrived at the Red’s 25 yard line
through a succession of well placed
punts. A scrum was called—the ball

came out the Dal end—Dougan booted
' a cross field kick which landed behind
the Red’s line—several Wanderers
leisurely went after it to safety it,
_ when from out of nowhere raced Mont
—dove between the Red defenders
to land on the ball scoring the only
try of the day and one of the nicest
ever scored on the Dal field. Shortly
afterwards the forwards and _ backs
combined in a passing bout with
Gunter crossing the line, but the
whistle called the play back. The
period ended Dal 3—Wanderers 0.

The final period saw the Red tide
again and again storming the Dal
citadel but in vain.

Several penalty kicks from around

the 30 yard line gave Dal supporters

Many an anxious moment with one
such kick just missing the uprights.
It was in this period that the best
" scoring threat and defensive work
of the day occurred. The Wanderers
' on a penalty kick, cross kicked into
the hands of a Red player and a line
r run began, but then Dal went into
action dropping each man in his tracks
until the ball was out of play. - Dal’s
" fine all round play was truly deserving
ly of victory and when the breaks came
they took advantage of them. The
backfield proved the surprise of the
day—Kent- Irwin's deadly tackling
of Joudrey; Pauker, Mont, Ross, and
~ Stewart stopping Bauld, Crease, Parker, and Forbes practically in their
v tracks; Stewart and Connor's beautiful
kicking and the forwards—Gunter,

1

=

+.
i,

-_pressute ! I

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 28rd, 1936

 

Tigers’ Rugger Team Seeks Redmen’s Scalps

 

The line-up given here is not complete.

for Saturday’s game not shown here are—Stoddard, Crease, McGregor.
Line-up (from left to right): Back Row—Stewart, Irwin, Corston,

Capt., Cook, DeWolfe.

Front Row—Ross, Phillips, Ideson, Mont, Storey, Buckley.

 

 

The Gossips
‘By Minnie The Moucher

Flash —Janet had quite a lengthy
visit—poor Bud, with seven classes—
to say nothing of the heartbroken Hal
girls,

Flash —Merkel to the fore again.
But only till seven o’clock—
Then work took him from
Evelyn
But did shecry? I guess not
How’re you doing, Dave?

Flash — — ‘Rushing Week’’? or
“Gushing Week’’?? The popularity
of last year’s Freshettes, has increased
amazingly in the last few days.

Flash —Heard at the most exciting
point of Saturday’s Game:

Marg Drummie—Ted
legs than Duff Stewart!

has nicer

Marian Geldert—If Don Storey
dances as well as he plays football...
Umim!!

Mary Watson—No, Baldy doesn’t
have to work tonight.

Marg Pue-Gilchrist—I think foot
ball’s just the grandest game, don’t
you, Hal?

DeWolfe, Buckley, and the remainder
of the scrum in heeling, following up,
and being aggressive; Stephenson and
Ideson for gamely carrying on—Dal
worked as a team and as a team gained
a hard won victory. The good work
must go on for Dal wants the championship this year. The college will
be out en masse tomorrow at Redland
so give us that same old spirit, gang.
Dalhousie Connor, fullback;
Ross, Stewart, Irwin, Pauker, threequarters; Buckley, Dougan, Mont,
halves; Phillips, Ideson, Stephenson,
Cook, DeWolfe, Gunter, Storey.

~

TOMORROW’S GAME CRUCIAL ®

City League Standing

Ww L P
Wanderers 3 1 10
Dalhousie Bt ed 6
Acadia 0 3 0

The Tigers are in a crucial position.
Dalhousie has three games to play,
two against the Wanderers (counting
2 points each), and one against Acadia
at Wolfville (counting 4 points). To
win the league Dal has to win the
rest of her games; to tie it with Wanderers she has either to beat Acadia
and win one of the games with the
Redmen, or lose to Acadia and win
both games against Wanderers. No
matter which way you look at it Dal
has to win tomorrow’s game against
Wanderers. The Wanderers also will
be fighting for a win. It should be
another battle of the century. Everybody out to watch the Tigers do some
mauling!

 

Notice

Trials for the cast of the Glee Club’s
major production before Christmas
“The Three Live Ghosts’ has been
called for Sunday “afternoon at 2.30
p. m.

THE GAZETTE APOLOGIZES

The Gazette wishes to apologize for the form in which a
news item appeared on the
front page of the last issue
entitled, ‘‘In the Supreme Moot
Court.’’ An erroneous impression was conveyed by the omission of an introductory paragraph explaining that the item
in question was an actual report
of an actual judgment in the
Moot Court of the Law School.

Dougan, Stevenson,

 

Mont will not be playing due to a strained tendon; possible players

Connor, Gunter,

Dal Professor
Is Honoured

It was with much disappointment
that those listening in to C. H. N. S.
last Monday afternoon learned that
negotiations had failed and that the
local station had not been granted
permission to carry Dr. H. L. Stewart’s
address. The broadcast was carried
over the facilities of the British Broadcasting Corporation only, but those
who heard it on the short wave were
treated to another of his very interesting talks on current events.

Dr. Stewart, who, by his weekly
radio talks, has already turned the
eyes of many towards Dalhousie

University, brought still another honour
to the college in being chosen to begin
this series of addresses, which included
one from each of the Dominions,
behalf of Canada. His subject,
common with that of the speakers
from the rest of the Empire when
their turns come continue the
series, was Canadian domestic problems and the attitude to
foreign affairs generally. He opened
by summing up the problems of the
Canadian Finance Minister under three
heads namely railroad deficits, the
national debt, and the unemployment
situation, and followed this up by
pointing out how these problems had
been dealt with, particularly emphasizing the fact that no means but ordinary
legislation had been used with no
impairment of the country’s credit,
In turning to Canadian relations with
European questions Dr. Stewart, in
consequence of the shortness of the
time at his disposal, dealt with only
one topic, namely the policy called
‘Tsolationism’’, which he described in
vivid detail. His absence from the

on
in

to

nation’s

local broadcasts will be regretted by

his many listeners, both in Nova Scotia
and other parts.

Train”

that

of three or four

 

 

tte

Interfaculty
Track Meet

Oct. 29th at
Studley

  

No.

a

 

 

 

 

Varied Views
On Glee Club

(It was the intention of those con
ducting this column

to begin

Dalhousie, football team—"’
Last Saturday proved most conclusively that there is
the matter
have

with the

nothing whatsoever
with the Tigers so we we

taken the following subject):
“In your
presentations of the

Glee Club been satisfactory /’’

When
19th.
Where queried

queried=

Monday,

Studley Campus.

Len Kitz, student of first year Law.
In my opinion the type
shows the Glee Club have been featur
humble

ing have been entirely satisfactory
in that what they have done they
have done very well. The trouble

with the organization as I see it however is that they refuse to travel
along new paths, in the fear of putting
something over which the student
body might not like. I suggest they
feature more musical comedies.

Laurie Redden, Senior student in
For my part you
might say that they can not even
drawing the Honorable

Arts and Science.

succeed in
Mr. Redden within the doors.

Duff Stewart, student at large and
football hero particular. If the
presentation I saw is indicative of
their capability I feel for the
audiences. They should direct
efforts more to impersonations
general musical comedies.

in

Sorry
their
and

Mabel MacKenzie, 3rd year student in Science. In opinion the
shows presented by the Glee Club
a few years ago in the days of Sina
Singer and Dr. Walter MacKenzie
were more interesting from the standpoint the students. Skits on

my

of the

professors, etc., although meaning noth
ing to outsiders are most amusing

to the student body.

Jeanne Geddes, 3rd year student
in Arts. “The Ghost
are instrumenta. in developing
the dramatic the student
along a higher level than the old type
presented by the organization and for
the present attempts made by the Society to those

Shows such as

interests of

reason I favor

years ago.

es, eee

W anted

A TYPEWRITER

9

Reply to ‘‘Typewriter
housie Gazette, Halifax, N. S.

 

President and Mrs. Carleton
Stanley
will be at home to all newly
registered students in the
University
24 Oxford Street
Sunday, October twenty-fifth,
4.30 p. m.-6 p. m.

 

?,
°

their
queries with the following question:
“What in your opinion is the matter

opinion have curretn
Dalhousie

October

of

c/o Dal
BRITISHERS ARE VICTORIOUS IN SODALES DEBATE

Large Audience
Hears Debate

Before one of the largest audiences
in the history of Sodales, the British
team of Bernard Ungerson and Malcolm
McEwen won the vote of the gathering
over Edward Arab and Isaac Mercer,
the Dalhousie debaters, last
at the Dalhousie gymnasium,

Tuesday
The subject discussed was: ‘“Rethat this house would rather
live in Moscow than in Berlin”, and
the audience enjoyed a most interesting
discussion, sparkling with Old Country
wit and

solved

obtaining a clearer insight
into the systems of the countries con
cerned,

[t was indeed gratifying to see such
a large crowd at the opening debate
and much credit goes to Leo Landreville, President of Sodales,
dentally

who incichairman for the
evening, for his untiring work to make
it a success, and it was, financially and
otherwise.

was the

Sodales has had a good start—
Moscow has been chosen to Berlin—

Communism has the edge over Fascism.

Mr. Ungerson (Moscow): The fun
damental necessity of a happy life
was liberty—liberty not of yesterday,
or today, but of tomorrow. Moscow
could give this as Communism had
been basically democratic in its origin
and aims. Next to liberty in its
relation to happiness was security and
freedom from the fear of war. The
Russian creed was of production and
not of power. A. bitter Germany
desirous of expansion at any cost was
pictured,
Mr. Mercer (Berlin): The Communist system strangled private enterprise and private initiative by means
of persecution. Regarding war Germany openly and directly stated her
aims and ambitions, while Russia
resorted propaganda. Capitalism
in Germany was being controlled so
that the capitalists might work to the
benefit of the community as a whole.
German women were encouraged to
stay in the home and the standards
of morals and
preserved,

to

society were being

Mr.

alone

McEwen (Moscow):
guaranteed
alone in permitting a choice of jobs,
better
Art was making advances,

All but 2 per cent always had had a
say in government. suffrage was being conferred on the people.

Russia

em ployment—was

in providing social services

Universal

Ruasia

was not to be feared asa
belligerent as she was to busy in
reconstruction. Death in battle was

never glorified as in Germany.

Mr. Arab (Berlin): Nazi-ism engrafted certain principles of socialism
on capitalism to keep the latter under
control whereas Communism — endeavoured to remake man destroying
his philosophy of life.

Private property and private initiative were encouraged,
beliefs were emphasized in Russia.
The bureaucrats always were willing
to sacrifice the masses to maintain
their own security.

Anti-religious

The German people had been reawakened.

 

 

a

F

we

e.

P|

ie | Jerry Naugler’s s Orchestra

Tickets $3.50 per Couple

TICKETS ON SALE AT UNIVERSITY STORE

Floor Show - Novelties

 

_|LAW BALL OCT. 29th, NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL, 9 p.m.

Surprises

 

 

 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
    
   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COMMENT

Belgium’s Neutrality

 
 

   

     
  

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”’ Gicaking fo i¥e snemibers Jaf” hie

Cabinet, King Leopold of Belgium
declared that Germany’s reoccupation
of the Rhineland exposed Belgium

 

 
  
 
 
 
  
  
     
  
   
    
 
   

GAZETTE STAFF.

   
  
  

    
 

    
    
        
       
    

     
 

College Cuts

The prize freshman at Southern
California filed his church preference
as “red brick”’.

It Couldn’t Happen Here

Why is it professors can wear purple
ties,

Haphazard hair cuts, and coats the
wrong size,

Trousers too short,
scheme vile,

Yet flunk me in English because of my
style?—Daily Iilint.

and the colour

Ain’t It The Truth?

Freshettes seem to be divided into
three classes: The beautiful, the talented, and the majority. Ask the maa
who owns one!

 

Quoting the break as he tumbled

October 28rd, 1986

 

The Student’s

Lament

Dear Ma:

Tell Pa

I need

With speed
Some dough.
I know

He may

Say nay,

Sut you
Must do
Your best
To wrest :
From him,
Though slim
It be,

For me
Some cash,
tll crash
Without

A note

To stem

Those men

This was to be the year of reviving English rugby. A carefully planned schedule was drawn up with the traditional rivals

} ar - Dal and Wanderers playing a double schedule so as to give the
bee public an uninterrupted season. Everything began well enough
with Dal trouncing Acadia 11-3 for the first time in four years

ih toe +h, aves...
4 ] id a4 xg age Om

on the Studley campus. Then came the deluge at Redland.

"
~
,

1 to be lost? What would happen at Studley?

i “_

. ig oe ert Sar iy % Popa ‘ : * :
bos During the week there arose a spirit among the Dal team

rT

| er

another Gold and Black team into a great machine—at least

’ : ‘*

~

BAe

- The Gazette takes this opportunity of congratulating every

member of the team for the fine performance that they turned
in and sincerely hope that they will nurture that long lost spirit
at any cost. ,

The next game at Redland will be a hard one to win but we

ara think we express the sentiment of the student body that win,

lose, or draw the students will back a fighting aggressive team
until the last whistle.

4 GOOD LUCK, TIGERS!

s THE BUDGET

 . The yearly financing has finally been alloted to the various

A organizations on the campus, and it is gratifying to note that
Delta Gamma has received an increase in its grant of approxi
~ mately 238.8%it being the only organization to have an increase
mn and rightly so for the girls as it is receive little enough for their

: Council fee.

Another change is the granting of a lump sum of money for

2 athletic purposes by the Council to the D. A. A. C., which in fact

corresponds with Number 10 of the Gazette Platform. A better
Dalhousie is in the making.

EY 3 The Gazette, D. A. A. C., Glee Club, and Sodales show de
creases ranging from 6.7% to 28.7%, all of which goes to show
that the students’ money is in capable hands. Keep up the good
work!

a STUDENT SPECTATORS AND SPORTSMANSHIP

at Last Saturday Dalhousie won a glorious football game, a
game which demonstrated that the spirit which produced great

> Dalhousians in the past is still alive today. Both team and

ee: hope they were not Dalhousians.
*

= spectators showed that the bad beating of the previous week had
served only to increase their eagerness to put up a good fight.

The enjoyment of the game, however, was marred for many

Pa by the display on a few occasions of a lack of sportsmanship singular

for Dalhousians. Wanderers were granted a number of penalty

ee kicks during the game on which they attempted to score from

placement. While the Wanderers’ kicker was lining up the ball,

and taking the kick, he was greatly hampered by boos and jeering

from a number of spectators in the Dalhousie stands. Let us

Even at a football game there

Sete. 58 a place and a time for derision. Such conduct is definitely
not “‘cricket’’, and is worthy only of an American baseball game.
Let there be no more of it at Dalhousie!

 

that burst forth with a vengeance last Saturday and turned just

 

   
   
  
 

 
         
  

  

" Editors. to a repetition of the tragic experiences
A.|of the World War, and that Belgium
J. D. CREASE, B.A. I, M. MacKEIGAN, M.A. }of t , Belgium Bis yo
Ph. B5737 Ph. B24386 must assume her old position of
og Associates. Neutrality. He further commented Phe Preahie ooh 2a 3:
John Fisher Edward Arab, B.A. that Belgium must remain aloof from ee re oH Op oe BS a aa :
act Ww ar as Oz
, foreign entanglements. Bi LA0h WE Wil 80 BO..56 ~
_ Edward S. MacLatchy, B.A. Barly Braser, B.A. oh . a flop. It was weak-kneed, spiritless
. h Pe P. S. Macnutt During these last few tense months ; ,
Elizabeth Pearson Be en, ; and anaemic. No, dear reader, we
Geo. H. Murphy, B.A Layton Ferguson one has often heard the expression,, eons ys aes ey eee
er phy, B.A. “poor England’. It would now seem do not be eve that a Ee = ries ’
Ff . News Editor Sports Editor. more appropriate to say “poor old | SUCCESS, must consist entirely o tipsy
| ews Edttor. France”. France has based her foreign individuals reeling aimlessly around
peg ROLAND HURST = oe oa policy on security. In doing this, the ee Last ie: — Sop
so Ph. B8427 ee ; she not only raised her own forces, for ae er i , ne so ae 8a
ie, | teak but allied with other powers and : pi rs Pat oe ie *y the ve
i ae aenuetes, | But the sight of a hundred young anc
: itentes to guarantee that security.| °°" é
2 Elwyn Hughes L. A. Landreville, B.A. es ° : NMaeinna | healthy people, supposedly out for a
ie a : Rov Gold Firstly, she had the League of Nations, ’ ; , ;
2 Archie B, MacKenzie y T Feet A ann a-,..- .4| good time, dancing about and looking
L. A. Kitz Jack Reynolds then The Rhineland was demilitarized . ae eee La
ian, mainly for her benefit. She formed | ** though they had just aoe as s
oer Business Manager. Assisiant Business Manager.|, Locarno, whereby several powers ie and were about be cr on
: their own, was too much for us.
2 ; : agreed to protect the attacked country. ,
5 GORDON K. DALEY EE. PERN . % . ; Ae aoe What’s ~_ gotten into everybody?
BF Phone B 5700 Altho, this was a reciprocal agreement, | * ee :
Nie ee ipo Ph. B5700 “ ae eee te Penn, | Except for the freshmen it was much
toy Proof Editor that is, it would work against France nie oh i
> ; if she were the aggressor, neverthe- the Same crowd dat Says =
5 CHARLES ROBERTS less, it was designed to help France. | ¥°" ® et May ye it’s e
Both these international aids to French raised lees, oF perhaps it es 2 ee
eee . fe " " r ¥< > Wy. - i Tu
eee CCC UroCUCCTCCCCCCC TTT Security have been violated by Ger- irom the now famous wee oat He
many. Also, France formed a recent how, let's hope we can get rid of it
OUR FOOTBALL TEAM military pact with Belgium. Belgium before the Law Ball.
. was also a signatory to Locarno. As Niale Extras
Pie Last week the Gazette took, what one might call, a crack at}the Locarno Treaty was violated, |
Es the football team for its lack of spirit. That pitiful spectacle | France has been anxious to build a] And while we're on the subject of
‘ at the Wanderers grounds was enough to set every Dalhousian| new one. Belgium would be a party] qances, this seems like an excellent
re thinking for it was not worthy of the team and last Saturday’s|;o this. But King Leopold's speech} 5 ,,ortunity to put in a few remarks
game certainly proves the point. has been interpreted a that about that superfluous addition to the
ues Belgium will. not participate in it.| Gym dances—the stag line, otherwise
E The glorious victory at Studley demonstrated to all and|She also repudiated any military|:iown as the chisellers. It's bad
sundry that the Tiger team is to be reckoned with in any foot-| obligations—this meant that the recent| enough that the poor suckers who
ball came. Instigated by the superhuman deeds of the hard-| military agreement between the two] }.i.¢ their own fe ;

8 8 y oe a 3 bring their own females have to allow
ny working forwards, the backfield which has borne the brunt of| nations was dissipated also. No won- Stl an edie, “atti: dace 68 ve.
MN criticism all season displayed an aggressiveness not seen here} der that the Quai d’Orsay had a double SRA ST ike:

Pray: get : 7 f : but at least the boys might have the
not for many a day. The team was definitely on the spot—indeed | headache after the Belgian Sovereign | .ourtesy to allow the dancers all the
[| in our humble opinion English rugby hereabouts was on the spot] spoke, and witha fascist Spain risingon| .,466 avail: na
eS pre & Bey yO peers space available. This business of
pif for another game like the first Dal-Wanderers struggle would | her frontiers, she may havea tripleone. scaling: cnoteel Ea ate ta. a cing,
ne have undone all the careful building up of the interest that has} The proposed Bill lengthening com-| ,-ound-the-rosie attitude is unnecesF hn been shown thus far. pulsory military service and increasing sary and futile, And incidentally the
pace ts defences is a part of the little State's) jdea of making every other dance a

policy to resist invaders in time of] ot in seems a bit exaggerated. We
war. This is a grim reminder of the] widerstand that the Glee Club, and
German rape of Belgium in 1914,/ 5+ the Council controls the dances
when with crushing efficiency and/pejq after their own shows. Why
precision the Germany army poured/ on’: they do something about these
into this helpless little buffer state obviously glaring faults? Or perhaps

|and pulverized their fortifications and they're too busy slinging together such

swept aside their armies. The object | p:esentations as their first of the year!
was to attack France unexpectedly, | a couple more like that one, and they'll
and strike a decisive blow which would’) ¢ oq themselves presenting to a row of
then release the German armies, so empty seats.

that they could face the invading

Russians. Belgium at this time was Winnie The Wailer
universally recognized as a neutral! so another Merle is with us, in the
State. In fact, in 1839 when she form of Winnie Winshull. There is

2 os re ay = 7
broke frem the Dutch, she was recog-| come part of the female make-up that
: 3 ae y De . . “
nized as “a perpetually neutral and| 6,45 jtself unable to resist scandal.
° . Ma ” See “ mnlna— ® :
inviolate state’. The German viola However, if we were to make a wild
tion of this neutrality was justified guess as to the identity of the author
on the ground that it was the only of the column, we would point out to
means Germany had of effectively her an ancient and very truthful
attacking France, and thus thwarting axiom—namely, people in glass houses,
are . ~ net ié “e «6 lac » . - c
the Franco- Soviet alliance. We are| etc. Of course that goes for every
in a state of necessity, and necessity | columnist, including ourselves, but it
knows no law’’ was the German explanation of the violation. Be it remem
seems particularly pertinent in this

: case. Anyhow, with sorority rushing
bered that England used this aS an! week on hand, it’s a very appropriate
excuse for declaring war-on Germany.|;ime to swing into action. Boys,

In fact, it has been a consistent foreign
policy of England to protect the Low
Land powers of western Europe.
One may ask if the neutrality of
Belgium was violated in 1914, why
does she now renounce all pacts and
declare herself once more an inviolate
state, particularly since covenants and
declarations of policy are so little
respected by certain European powers
these days? The reason is not stated
other than the German reoccupation

the cats are meowing, but wait until
they start scratching........

Nice People

Nearly everyone bought a feather,
and contributed to the Community
Chest. No doubt you noticed the
posters placed at various spots throughout the campus, asking for contributions. If you them, you also
saw that the sample feathers had

Perio aitnMand dictated it: But been torn off most of them. Somete tiieued. tat the’ atrone Cashiatie body must have been wearing them
influence in Belgium was fearful of | Te PRONG REF SasIOm, OF tue, OF BEY
the Franco-Soviet alliance, particularly iaces.), Oe erent Ahi ipa ee enawe
RAS eRe tite ee ae) ledge that one has contributed to a
ieee .__ ) worthy cause.

definite stand,» against Communism. ¥

Also, Belgium feels that with her new
defences and increased military strength
she will be able to resist the advance

Saw

1

Explanation

We seem to be unable to finish a

of the violator, at least until foreign| paragraph without taking a dirty
aid comes. In the last war, aid came|crack at somebody or something.
too late. Now, Belgium feels that] Mostly we start out to do so, some
she can hold off and thus the con-|times we don’t. Perhaps you have
sequences for her will not be as bad|heard that old expression “A critic
as if she went to war, because of some|]is like a eunuch”, etc. If you don't
treaty with France or some other| know the rest we don’t intend to tell
nation. It is perhaps a selfish policy,| you. But anyhow we're in the same
but why not in these days, when every | position as the critic, although we
nation must look out for it’s own| don’t pretend to be one. Maybe this
interest more than it ever did. How-|column should be headed ‘What’s
ever King Leopold has soft-pedalled| Wrong with Dalhousie’, but we'd
the implication of selfishness by assur-} hate to infringe on the patent of the
ing the world that Belgium intends]! copyright owner of that title, who, by
to execute all her league pledges as an | the way, seems to have retired, vocally,
honourable state. Poor France, now, | at least, from public life. Anyhow,
she will have to fortify the Belgium] our business is to try and stir up a
front. Likewise, another blow struck| little interest in things in general,
her because of her associations with|on the Studley campus. We have
Communistic Moscow. Herr Hitler, | been remarkably unsuccessful to date,
now it is your move, but you never can tell,

Whose game

“Glass I'll go. By, Rex.”
With shame

O Tempora! O Mores! [ played
They made
Toronto: Nearly two dozen win- Me say
dows in the east wing of Trinity I'd pay,
House were shattered by a bombard- And |
ment of tomatoes, eggs, and other sea
nltess

vegetables by South House students wea
during the Annual Bed Race. his mess,

(Query
This debt :

—What’s a bed race?) Owing to

inter-residential rivalry the annual Is met
. . . >. ‘

window bill at Trinity is two hundred By me.

dollars You see

 

How bad
Your lad

Has been,

Vancouver: Daily increasing in intensity, frosh-soph hostilities entered

their fifth day on Thursday noon, His sin
Since Monday every lunch hour has | Has bound
seen furious, but for the most part Him round.
harniless, fighting. The use of a I swore
fire hose from the Common Room Before
was an added attraction to Tuesday’s I came
show. The frosh, irked by indignities My name
have twice completely wrecked the} I'd keep
shoe shine stand. A sheet

 

Pure white—
That night
My will

Was still
Please Ma

Kingston: Saturday morning found
the Queen’s goal posts painted red
by an enthusiastic delegation of Red
men from McGill. Indignant fresh- Tell P
ell ra
men, egged on by sophs, mobbed | 0
: Jnce more
McGill’s supporters after the after- ‘
: ; ; For sure
noon’s game removing hair from I
swear
an unfortunate few by means of il el
. ar
barber’s clippers. Aan
That den
5 ; Of men ng,
Why were there so few girl athletes i

Who wen
My “mon”,
If he

For me
Will do
What you
Ask him.

in the gay nineties—’
“They were all bustle-bound.”’

The following couplet advertises
the Date Bureau at Toronto Varsity:
“Would you like a loving mate?

Send a dime and get a date,” :
& Love Slim.

 

From Colorado comes the crack | ¥

that a professor who is. ten minutes “Tt isn’t the size of the dog in the
late is so rare he’s in a class by himself. fight, but the size of the fight in the

(Continued on page 4.) dog, that counts.”

 

 

 

“There is hardly anything in the world”
ce j ~ - . A
that some man cannot make a little worse and sell a little
“cheaper” ————— hora

These famous words tell you plainly why you should
buy advertised brands wherever possible. A man who
will put his name to his product must have reason
to be proud of it........

Ask for a branded line every time, it is your best protection against inferior merchandise at
prices ....

excessive

SHANE’S feature all the nationally known brands
of men’s clothing and furnishings at the most reasonable prices—such as

ARROW AND FORSYTH SHIRTS

STETSON AND BROCK HATS—

HICKOK BRACES AND BELTS—

JAEGER SWEATERS, SCARVES AND HOSIERY

and

Society Brand Clothes

 

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.
’

 

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO DAL STUDENTS

 
 
  

    
 
  

22eunee

CEA
x

ry,

Pie
a

 
 

S-m-o-o-t-h, mild—
and throat-easy

Buckin

oa CIGARETTES “prot Easy’

B73-36

 

 

 

The latest Popular Music.
The latest Victor Records.
All Popular Magazines.

| A. PUBLICOVER flat on getting

Donovan’s Beverages

 

 

e 2 SHOPS All Musical Instruments. : ;
. a including
ad ~ LORD NELSON HOTEL Radios in best makes. .
7 Lending Library of latest Dublin Dry Ginger Ale
and Fiction
| , ; Donovan’s Orange Juice
23 SPRING GARDEN RD. Cards for every occasion.

Attractive Novelties for
Souvenirs.

McDonald Music Co.

393 BARRINGTON ST.

15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B 6821

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

This Is The Time
DRUGS for

es 69) y BADMINTON!

CHOCOLATES

Have your share of the fun from
this great indoor game. You
can get all your equipment including Birds, Nets and Gym
Shoes from

FOUNTAIN

 

. MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

456-460 Barrington St.

 

 

   

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

 

    
  

     
      

: :

ete Photographers to Dalhousie University

Le abe _— 7 fix ae

art Lae o ak : 5 i ;

Boshi “SPECIAL: RATES TO. .- | | SEE OUR PICTORIAL WORK
tae, _ STUDENTS — FOR GIFTS

co pr — 24 Hour Finishing Service —

ms

ji =
= 
 

18 SPRING GARDEN RD. Phone B 6992

a

 

}

“CRITICAL MOMENTS”

i

SONS and DAUGHTERS

  
  
       

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

WHEN YOURE
THE PROMPTER
AT THE
COLLEGE
THEATRICAL~

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

>
=
$

if

“Tf You Want to See Well See
Wallace”’

SAVE THE UNUSED
MILEAGE IN YOUR
SHOES
Phone

The Capitol Shoe Repair

—-AND THE HERO HAS JUST FORGOTTEN We Call and Deliver

; HIS LINES AND YOU REACH FOR YOUR
PROMPT BOOK ONLY TO FIND THAT SOME 44 SACKVILLE ST.
WAG HAS STOLEN IT,—LEAVING YOU A wie

 

 

 

 

 

   
        

THOMAS WALLAGE |

 

 

 
    
 
  
   
   
 

 

PATENT MEDICINE CALENDAR— —- — eae een tecieiremnns

CASINO

Saturday—Mon.—Tuesday

“The GARDEN
MURDER CASE”

with
EDMUND LOWE

 

VIRGINIA BRUCE
4 SHORTS 4
SING SONG
every TUESDAY NIGHT at 9

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Commerce Notes

With a thirty percent increase in
the Freshman class of the department
the Commerce clan seems to be off to
a fine start.

To be perfectly frank they seem to
be the only department showing any
sign of life at Studley this year.

The writer has heard that a
is on foot towards class abolition and
the looks Only
class made move

move

situation bad.

has

one
any towards
any form of organization for the present

term,

This situation is in sharp contrast
that the
To date the Society

Commerce
held
have

with of Society.

has three

meetings in which plans been

discussed in connection with proposed
Nova

Tuesday,

tours of Scotian industries.
Last the
events came off when the Department
journeyed body

where they were conducted

first of these

in a to Liverpool

through
the Mersey Pulp and Paper Company.
The

ambitious

which is indeed an
the the
Society's officers and Prof. ‘Big Jim”
MacDonald will result in giving the
students an idea of the actual problems

program

one on part of

 

met with in the business world. After
witnessing the actual production they
will be better fitted also to discuss
problems pertaining to the various
industries in the classroom,

Harold Nelson, President of the

Society in 1934 and Don Saunderson
who held the honor in 19385 accompanied
the present students on the occasion.

 

We understand that the Engineering
Society has been granted permission
to hold the first big dance after Christmas. They plan so we are told to
handle the affair themselves this year.
To the ditch’ diggers we say go ahead

but before you get very far you will

realize that it was only through the
ability of the financial wizards that
this affair was so popular in past years.

-———0o

Pine Hill Notes

At the
Thursday night,

annual Freshman Banquet

an- unusually large

SS

ome Topics

of

Our period hibernation is
now over and although the school
year is well started, we return to

represent the major profession at the
Forrest Building and once more “bite”
the Gazette.—So, What
we're off! ! !

into Ho! and

away We 20

Page Three

| Thru The Traeat

The engineers with the most enterprising looking first year class in a
decade are away to a fine start this
term. Already President Stanfield (of
negligee fame) has proved his worth
by arranging a very
interesting tour of inspection of

successful and

the

ae Imperial Oil Plant at Dartmouth.

At the last meeting of the Dental] The tour was not only advantageous
Society elections were held and a/from an educational standpoint as
favorable. result was attained. The| several of the boys managed to fill

following men were elected: their cigarette lighters. We thank
President—Clem Egan, you, Mr. Dunsmore, and to ‘Pete’
Vice-President—Bob Muser. we say, “let’s have some more.”
Sec. Treas.—Ben Diamond. “Steve’’ suggests Oland’s. But gosh
Congratulations for a well chosen] you can't fill cigarette lighters at

staff, but we want to say that 100% | Oland’s.

cooperation is necessary on the part

of all, not only to help these men do Speaking to Rosier, whose beard

their job efficiently, but also in order
to help maintain the previous standard

of success that the Dental Society has

was already beginning to show after

shaving twenty minutes beforehand,

[ asked him what he had done with
heretofore experienced. So let's have|+he money he made in Ontario this
it, boys: Greet “Happy’’ Diamond summer. He replied, “Some went
with a silver dollar smile. for liquor, and the rest I spent fool
oe ishly.”’ Tsk! Tsk! This modern de
This Dentistry shows out
standing material with regard to the

year,

participation in the various interfaculty

Our D. A. A. C.

athletic competitions.

generation,
From Survey camp we learn that
our old friend from the land of tomales

 

representative, Fred Danziger, has ;
and tequila one day tried to show
arranged for all events and has already 1 ars ioe
“ |the boys how the matador’s do it in
chosen capable men to manage the :

various teams.

For those of you who are unfamiliar

with our participation in last year’s
interfaculty events, we would like to
acquaint you with the fact that we

made an excellent showing in Basketball, Softball Field,
The loss through graduation of some

and Track and

of our outstanding men in basketball

 

old Mexico. However the circumstances were slightly different on this
occasion, for Johnnie picked a cow
and after a few seconds he resembled
a door mat rather than a
Old Bossie caught Johnnie with
pants down (not literally)
him a hind left to the schnozzola and

laid him out colder than a ditch-diggers

matador.
his

smacked

: lunch. John slings the Bull very
will undoubtedly be felt. However, J 5 ; :
* ee » | well, but alas not the Cow.

the presence of Johnny “Stretch We | that “Chuck” I
a ; : e learn also that “Chuck ee
Tokosh, Diamond, Freed and with Fat ; ; ‘ae

is . ____-_ {tour diminutive oriental friend ate
Stein and Zuckerman as Managers, as|,. es on ig

: . .,| his way to fame and indigestion.

the nucleus for this year’s team, will ;
more than make up for that loss.

The situation in softball sizes up aj _ Have you heard about our old
° sa 9 . “12 | Be r a “ > { .T* 1. . ha
bit differently. Last year’s team is friend T. Y. M.? The other day ne
practically intact and we are fortunate turned up at the anatomy lab with his
enough to have our potentialities knife in one hand and his fork inthe
enhanced by Abe Becker and the| ther; over-work I suppose.
flawless pitching of Harry Gaum, —

The Ice Hockey team headed by Do you know that several of the

Bill Scott and Tommy White as co
 

men were welcomed
After the

Freshmen

of new
Hill. welcoming
the were called
upon to introduce themselves to the
seniors, who, fortunately, were in that
amiable state of mind which results
from a hearty feast. The banquet
ended gaily with a singsong which
was noteworthy for its spirit
volume.

number
Pine
address,

to

andl

| The Freshman show was held Friday

night and even the seniors were as

tonished at the display of talent.
A melodrama presented in three acts,
held the audience spellbound for at
least ten minutes, They were moved
to tears by the superb acting of the
dashing prince and the lovely, slender
princess, whose love affair was rudely
When they

died of grief and disappointment, the

broken by the cruel king.

audience could restrain themselves no
longer and as the curtain fell, everyone
broke into gales of laughter. We suggest that the princess attend strictly
to her diet that the curtain be
sufficiently large the next time. The
musical parts of the program including

and

a clarinet selection from Gordie WhidKarl
and the Medical Quartet, were much
appreciated, some for their quality,
and some for their lack of it, Several
short skits, followed by some acts of
magic by Charles Roberts and Henry
Hicks concluded the entertainment,
We congratulate the Freshmen on
their efforts, and hope that they will
continue to amuse us in their unique

den and songs from McKenzie

way throughout the year.

The Theologs are back from their
mission fields, all with the firm resolve
hard as ever and

When
mad

to
opportunity of welcoming them back.

to work as not to
shows.
first

hope

miss too many
the

we

they

from of

recover orgy

entertainment have an
John Jarvie went to the supper dance
Saturday night he had

What is the

and Sunday
to hurry to Dartmouth.
explanation?
Things we would like to know—

Why Ed Brown goes down town so
often?

If Doc Wright goes-to the Fireside
Club to warm his hands or his heart.

Why Pat Patton Barrington Street.

Where Pete got his dialect?

Is Skippy a theolog or just a Pine
Hiller?

frequents

—_—O0-_

A husband has only one wife, but
an iceman has his pick.

managers promises an eventful season.
Tommy Rogers and the other stars
of last year are here to put forth their
best efforts.

Track and Field has great possibilities this year. We have the men and
the skill; all we ask for is a bit of cooperation. The the
various teams are:

Basketball—Stein and Zuckerman.

Softball—Diamond and Becker.
Scott and White.
Levin and Gold.

co-managers of

Ice Hockey:

Track and Field
See your respective managers at the

first opportunity and let’s start the
ball rolling for a successful season.
The Tuba boops
The Trumpet blares and
The Sliphorn slips

and the game is won,

Who do you suppose makes up
40% of our much overrated Dalhousie
Band? ? ?. We'll let you guess......

Local Anaesthesia

It is better to give than to lend,
and it costs about the same.

“The man with the big head is
generally successful’, saysa well known
critic. But surely, a small head is

that the has

it to the grindstone.

evidence wearer kept

Picadilly: My patient has swallowed
What shall I do?

Ghost: Use a copper band.

the mafrix retainer.

Tim: ‘‘How much are cotton rolls?”
Scott: ‘‘Fifty for a nickel”,

Tim: “Ull have one please.”

 

Scott: “Running an Infirmary?”

For the benefit of his patients, Dr.
Skippy announces that he will be
absent from his office during the
next week or 10 days.

If your patient can say this fast,

you've made a good set of dentures:
“A The

skunk thunk the stump stunk and the

skunk sat on a stump.

9

stump thunk the skunk stunk.

Miss L.: Let’s have a for

the Community Chest.

quarter

Bangy: Let’s see the community
chest.

Papa: “T'll teach you to make love
to my daughter.”

Charlie: “I

I'm

old
head
wish you would,

boy. not making much

)
way.

engineering students after a thorough

inspection of Shirrefi Hall have declared the building unsafe? Why?
Only the engineers know that,

An advertisement for Shirreff Hall

boasts that an excellent view of the
beautiful North West Arm be
had from the premises. Gazing from
the ridiculous to the sublime, as it were.

A stranger in town last week mistook the Hall for the laughing academy
on the other side of the harbor.

ean

“Beware of idleness disguised as
friendship.”
Pee eee
Holds Meeti
The French Circle held a most

successful meeting on Friday evening
last, at the Murray Homestead for the
purpose of organization. Professor
the by

speaking about the purposes and aim

Gautheron opened meeting

of the Circle, and showed a numbe
of slides of scenes of Paris with suitable
comment French. He
was assisted by Prof. Mercer with his
Prof. DuVernet, new
appointee to the French staff, followed

about each in

lantern. the

with a few remarks about the French

Club which functioned at Wesley
College, Winnipeg, where he was
formerly professor,

A committee composed of Helen

Munro, Lincoln Fraser, Walter Murphy

and George Robertson named

to draw up a programme for the next

were

meeting which takes place in two
weeks time. Election of officers will
take place then,

M. Brugere the minister of the
French Government to Canada, has
very kindly offered to lend through
Professor Gautheron a number of
French films to be shown in Flalifax.

A local theatre has agreed to show the
first of the
of November, provided that
of 800
performance. To this end, it is hoped
that from two to three hundred Dalhousie students

these films about micddle

an atten
dance is guaranteed for the

attend and also

that all students will aid in informing

will
the general public of this performance.

——:-—-—_() os

Knock Knock

Who’s there?

Dalbart

Dalbart who?

Dal barred at all clubs,

 
 

 

 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   

3 it full of Master Bricklayer and,| and enjoyable.

 

   
 

even after a more than casual perusal

. oculist, spiritualist and _ tale-spinner,

of him as enjoying, not a jug of wine, | Dillinger’s

_ he’s doing his best.”

Medical Notes

Last week's Gazette carried the news
item of the election of officers of the
of the efforts of Rabelais, Boccacio| Students’ Medical Society. That in
Balzar and Gautier, is the relatively | itself is nothing extraordinary. It
uninspiring fact that Enoch J, Drebber| might be considered natural that there
of Ohio was smoking a Trichinopoly|was an attendance at that meeting
cigar a short time before his untimely|of one hundred and _ twenty-seven
demise in Brixton Row, London.| members. The writer remembers, howIt may be that this reminiscential| ever, a time, but three years ago, when
phenomenon is accounted for by the| medical meetings meant apples and

On Pudieéen

ies most vivid literary memory,

  
  
  
  
 

circumstance that the first book I|smokes for some twenty odd,

ever tread for the joy of reading was| What has happened since can be
A Study In Scarlet, by that eminent | credited, I think, to the spirit and
tenacious will of the present fourth
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and it is| year class.
in that volume that the homicidal} Probably mentioned at that time,
proceedings surrounding the estimable} to flatter the poor green freshmen in
Mr. Drebber’s shuffling off this mortal | Medicine, was the fact that upon the
coil are, after a short side-excursion| activity they would show in the
to the environs of the Great Salt|ensuing years, depended the future
Lake of Utah, elucidated to an awed| of their student society. The challenge
Dr. Watson, and through him to a|had been hurled and the results speak
waiting world, by an omniscient cokey,| well of the grit and courage which
to wit Sherlock Holmes. that class displayed in the last three

I am, however, inclined to the years.
belief that it is the oriental flavor} They were not content, however
of the word “Trichinopoly”, savoring} upon mere numbers. Their activities
somewhat of incense smoking before| must be extended to the benefit of
ruby-eyed gods, of temple bells in| themselves, their fellow students and
the sunset and of lithe sepia devotees| the school as a whole. This attitude
of Terpsichore that has so impressed | was directly responsible for the beginTrichinopoly cigars upon my memory.| ning last year, of a student medical
Be that as it may, Lady Nicotine, in| publication — The Dalhousie Medical
all her manifestations, has long in-| Journal. That the time was ripe
trigued me. for such a periodical, I think, has

This same Sherlock Holmes, in| been aptly demonstrated. The first
one of his cokier moments, wrote a|issue appeared last April, and was
monograph on I forget how many} acclaimed of a excellent literary and
varieties of cigar ash and their different | medical value. The second issue is
diagnosis. Wince not, troubled reader, | about to be printed. There has been
if such there be, troubled or other-| no lack of cooperation, and its results
wise; I have no such erudite dis-| should be if anything an improvement
sertation in mind. For the present|over the last. Similar good results
I will content myself with a not too}may be obtained by any student
profound analysis of how one’s dalliance} society on the Campus, if only the
with a particular guise of Lady Nicotine | effort is made, and the benefits derived
affects, no doubt subconsciously, our} will far exceed the time and energy
estimate of him. spent.

Chronologically speaking, the pipe} Class life among the fourth year

‘is the first method of tobacco-smoking, | medical students is also highly com
I would not be considered remiss in} mendable. Harmony, a willingness to

respect for precedent—the pipe smoker} cooperate, and a tendency to the

shall be considered first. radical has all helped to make this
Can you picture a gangster smoking | possible.

a pipe? Have you ever seen a moving} Some weeks ago the class as a whole

picture in which Archie the Cannon or| motored by bus to Kentville for a

Little Pompey drew his trusty old|/trip through the Nova Scotia Sani
straight-grain from his pocket, tamped|torium, This proved both instructive
Although apples and

striking @ match on a policeman’ s|other delectables were confiscated,

ek glutaeus: maximus as a gesture| the boys and Miss Spurr had simply

inft _ bravado, — applied its|shown in their own little way, what

on ea ae in beta the winds of the next week were to do.

  

1

eyed upright and a eas even | at Wolfville. The first bus load to
benevolent—the type of man you'd] arrive at the field on that day will be
ask for directions in a strange town| none other than the Medical Class
or for a match on a dark night. Ajof 1988. Why not have another four

pipe smoker is likely to- be a steady|or five bus-loads from the rest of the

sort of chap, and if there is a curve|school. Let’s make it a real Dalto his pipe, he is often considered to, housie day. You'll enjoy it more
be given to meditation of sorts. than ye know. That’s my guarantee.

On crisp Autumn afternoons, one| And while we're on the subject of
associates a pipe with an athletic | football—Dalhousians—Didn’t Satur
young “man in sports clothes and |day’s game thrill you to the core? Bill

perhaps a pork-pie hat, tramping| Embree sure was thrilled, but then
through the woods or watching a|that woman in brown might have had
football game. Of evenings, one thinks | something to do with it. Don’t forget
“woman in red’’, Bill,
a loaf of bread and thou, but comfort-| cause there’s lots of things she might
able slippers, a roaring fire and an| know about you.
easy chair. If the man is young,| It is expected that a medical column,
he is thought of as athletic, virile| will appear regularly in this paper.
and upright, If he has reached middle} It’s successful continuance depends
age he is pictured as sedate, fatherly | upon all the medical students. Loaded
and benevolent. If he is in the sere} as we are with the burden of curing
and yellow leaf (his pipe meanwhile | mankind’s ills might we not begin to
may have become rather sinuous or| venture a cure for Dalhousie’s ills.
have metamorphosed into a church-| Your contributions, criticism and help
warden) he is a kindly, reminiscing,|is desirable. Just as a good diagnosis
interesting old gaffer. In general,|and a good clinical cure heartens the
he is a most worthy individual. attending physician, so will the strength
Think it over—I’ll wager that’s| which your cooperation will afford
your subconscious estimate of a pipe| Dalhousie’s student institutions be
smoker. How do you think bumbling | a delight to you for all time.
Stanley Baldwin retains his position
as Prime Minister? He smokes a|blue hair and Park Avenue psychoanpipe. People say: “Well, he may analysts,
not be overbright, but he’s honest and| Some time after the cloak-overpuddle-spreading era, Francis II of
There are two types of women| France introduced the taking of snuff.
whom we associate with pipe smoking: | According to Cushay’s Pharmacology
The lady who takes down pappy’s| and Therapeutics, snuff taking is now
rabbit-rifle from the wall and fires|almost obsolete. But don’t we, when
two shots to apprise him of the approach | we are not thinking of gentlemen with
of revenooers as he tends his still| powdered wigs, ready rapiers and
is apt to smoke a corncob, And,|courtly compliments, associate snuff
contrariwise, as Tweedledum would| with dear old Aunt Agatha and her
say, the ultra-ultra-altra sophisticate | rheumatism? (If you have no Aunt
who would never smoke a corncob| Agatha, Aunt Bertha will do). Snuff
nohow (as per Tweedledee), but who|taking is even more characteristic
may purchase a jewelled, long-stemmed|than pipe smoking, because of the

 

‘minute-bowled fiiligreed pipe in a| greater homogeneity of type its fanciers

Fifth Avenue smartshop for the trifling| The next form of tobacco to make

_sum of twenty-five dollars (viz. Bordvit | its bow appears to have been the cigar,

Teller’s advertisements). This latter) Now cigar smokers present a great
type we associate with green toenails, {Continued on Page 6)

eS

’

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

College Cuts

(Continued from page 2)

The lone male enrolled at Wellesley
has many disadvantages to overcome.
He’s working for his bachelor’s degree.

says a _ novelist,
Yeah, but not

“Intelligence,”
“handicaps women,"
many,

Statistics

At last we have scientific data
describing freshmen and freshettes in
metrical terms.

The average frosh at McGill is
18.3 years old, weighs 140.7 lbs., is
5 ft. 9 inches tall. While not fully
grown, he is only seven pounds lighter
than his twenty-two year old brother
in the Med School and actually two
inches taller.

Information on _ freshettes comes
from Queens: Average height, 5 ft. 4 in.,
average weight, 116 Ibs., Blonds 29%,
Brownettes, 33%, Brunettes, 34%,
Red (Auburn-) 4%.

More Bright Sayings

She who hesitates, is waiting for a
better date to turn up.

If thy brother strike thee upon the
right cheek, turn in thy pin.

Two heads are better than one—but
it sure would look funny.

It’s an ill wind that blows from the
chem lab.—Daily Trujan,

according
consists of

The coed’s vocabulary,
to competent authorities,
five adjectives and a verb:
Gorgeous
Ideal
Marvellous
Magnificent
Exquisite

Read downwards for the verb.

Atheist’s Epitaph

All dressed up, and no place to go.

That’s all, folks.

NOTICE

The Dalhousie Gazette will not
publish letters that are not
personally signed. The personal
name will not be published if
so desired, but for the protection of the paper the name must
be given in confidence. If ‘Pro

 

Bono Publico’’ will send in his
name to the Editors, his letter
will be gladly published.

 

‘What kind of a dress did Betty
wear to the party last night?”

“I don’t remember, I think it was
checked.”

“Boy! That must have been a real
party.”
One Floor

Genial Motorist: ‘“May I offer you
a lift, sir?’’

Professor: “Lift? No, thank you,

I've no use for one, I live in a bungalow.”

Congrats and
Critiques

In the past it has been universally
felt that too often those contributing
to the Gazette have directed their
efforts too far in panning the different
activities thereby losing sight of other
things which have added lustre to
the name of Dalhousie.

In an attempt to equalize this
situation your writer will now and
then humbly try to give a more or less
true picture of affairs as they are
seen by the average student.

Overshadowing everything else last
week was Dalhousie’s victory over
the Wanderer’s football team, Conceded only a ten to one chance the
Tigers displayed a fighting = spirit
which officials believed dead three or
four years ago.

The orchids for the occasion can
not be bestowed on any one player
because Saturday’s game saw the
team working as a unit thus leaving
no opening for a star.

However we feel it necessary to
mention two or three little incidents.

At Studley a bone crushing little
demon smothered every Wanderer
who came his way. Congrat’s Henry.

Kent Irwin, playing his first game
on the Senior line, contributed a whale
of a game both defensively and offensively.

For his daring speed and his do
or die spirit we wish also to congratulate
Jimmy Mont. He seems to have
added a definite punch to the team,

Congratulations to Leo Landreville,
the little Frenchman guiding the
destinies of Sodales Debating Society,
for the valiant attempt he is making
to interest students in this very important activity.

Now for those little -incidents of
another nature,

At the moment your writer is not
aware to whom the Students’ Council
gave the contract for this year’s student
directory. That is beside the point,
however, what we want to know is
“where is the Students’ Directory?’’

And another thing we heard. For
the Student Council Dance held not
so long ago an official of that officious
organization hired spotlights at a
cost of $2.00 per day for the occasion.
We understand that these lights were

‘not returned until two days later thus

necessitating at least $4.00 further
expense. And do you know whose
four dollars that was? It was yours
and mine! It’s just about time some
one started a revolt around here and
the first act we would like to suggest
would be to call for the resignation
of the present council and a new election,

Some time ago we heard rumors of
the abolishment of classes and from
the amount of interest displayed this
term in class affairs it would seem to
indicate this would be a good idea.
With the exception of one, the Junior
Class, no president has even bothered
to call a meeting. Whether or not
they were afraid of being the first to
do so we do not know, but some one
has blundered.

UNRESTRICTED CHOICE
OF BRITISH WOOLENS

= 24"

Tailored to Your Measure

 

 

 

 

October, 23rd., 1986

Nova Scotia Technical College
OFFERS
ENGINEERING COURSES

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING.
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual
Experience.

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year—-Twenty-five Scholarships
‘of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar or Advice. F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

STUDENT’S
SPECIAL ~
MEMBERSHIP

Y.M.C. A.

$5.00

Swimming pool open daily 10 a.m. to 10.30 p.m.

See DOUG CREASE
Phone B 5737

  
 

Notice to Male
Football Fans

Don’t be discouraged if the weather
is cold for the big game Saturday.
Step into one of our burly new
O’Coats and you can laugh at cold
weather. Results of the game may
be in doubt, but you can be a winner
and feel a glow of pride in real comfort and smart appearance. Obey
that impulse today and buy a solid
value in your winter coat from our
huge stock.

Raglan, Chesterfields, Belted Models,
Ulsters, single and double breasted.
Size 34 to 46. Hundreds of them in
every wanted fabric.

$19.50 to $60.00

Our low markup does not permit of
discounts.

Colwell Brothers Ltd.

The English Shop
453-457 BARRINGTON ST.
Estab. 1891. Halifax, N. S.

  

 

   

 

  
 
    
  
 

 
   
 

    
 
 

    

  
 
 

  

 

Co

IN MEN’S CLOTHING, true craftsmanship and
authentic style counts. That is why, wherever dis
criminating college men gather, Tip Top clothes
are “winners”.

Tip Top offers such advantages as: unrestricted choice
of hundreds of new British woolens ... hand-cut
and tailored to your personal measure ... with many
unseen details of custom tailoring faithfully observed
. .. in style trends from here and abroad.

The background of confidence and well-groomed

bearing that a Tip Top suit lends its wearer, are added

values far in excess of Tip Top’s modest price.
TUF236

TIP TOP TAILORS

LIMITED
TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 
   
  
  

fem Bente
‘A

a ue
> ee al

: ot Olive Palm

    

e _October 23rd, 1936

. _ Supreme Mute
Court

7 “ ir , 1936 Fall Civil Suits

(Plaintiff) v. Stella

Child (Defendant)

In this case the Plaintiff sued the
Defendant for libel and slander, namely

that the Defendant gave a hat to a

charwoman which was exactly like one
owned and worn by the Plaintiff,

thus causing the Plaintiff to be an

object of hatred, contempt and ridicule
in the eyes of the whole college, or
at least in the eyes of the whole female
portion of the university.

The case was tried before Mr.
Justice Wichkeke who considered a

_jury unnecessary as his lordship con
sidered himself so learned in the law.
The Plaintiff was represented by
Mr. Lester Reene while Mr. Hal
Itosis appeared for the defence.

Now both these young ladies are
inmates of that well known institution,
Shirreff Hall, and have cells on the
same floor. Miss Palm, the Plaintiff,
is a Sophomore, while the Defendant,
Miss Child, belongs to that lowly
class of co-eds known as ‘‘Freshettes’’.
They weren't exactly close friends,
but Miss Palm was sweet and condescending enough to allow Miss
Child to visit in her room to gossip and
pass the time of day.

Now it seems that Miss Child was
out shopping one day and bought a
new hat which she promptly wore
into Miss Palm’s room to display
its beauty. Now the Plaintiff also
had a new hat—and Horrors! Imagine
the shock these ladies received when
they discovered that their hats were
exactly alike. What a catastrophe!

However, both of them bore the
situation bravely and a hot argument
ensued. The Plaintiff claimed to have
purchased her hat in ‘‘New Yawk’,
thus couldn’t possibly exchange it,
while the Defendant could easily

_ exchange her’s at Eaton’s, where she

had obtained it. With the help of
moral support from her senior friends,
Miss Palm persuaded Miss Child to
take the hat back so-that Miss Palm
could wear hers without fear of seeing

ee _ its duplicate on the campus.

 

 

It appears, however ,that the Defenet did not take the hat back to the
shop, but instead she gave it to a
colored: lady who did scrubbing for

ae acy some friends of hers” on South Street.

  
 
   
 
 
  

H

Bas - Imagine the
aS > when some of her friends recognized

| is object of hatred,

Plaintiff's embarrassment
_ the hat | ‘worn by the aforementioned

a; the Plaintiff became
contempt and
_ ridicule, which her counsel claims
may be considered as either libel or

Plaintiff's:

_ slander.

On the witness stand the Plaintiff
said that the Defendant was a contemptible little huzzy without a brain
in her head. She said that the Defendant was the dumbest freshette in the
whole lot. During Initiation Week,
the Plaintiff, desiring a mentholated
smoke, sent the Defendant out to get
some “Spuds”, while another Sophette

told her to bring back a package of

“Gold Flakes’’ at the same time,
and didn’t the little imbecile arrive
back with a peck of potatoes and a
package of corn flakes. Another day
some of the girls were discussing
authors and one of them said that
she liked S. S. Van Dine best. The
Defendant then piped up and said
that she thought R. M. S. “Queen
Mary” was much nicer than any of
those German boats.

On the witness stand the Defendant
was asked if she had been served with
the writ. She said she didn’t know
but that a man had brought her a
letter which said something about
Edward VIII and a girl named Grace,
and said that it commanded her to
make her appearance in ten days
(“Goodness knows it doesn’t take me
that long to dress’’). She asked him
who he was and he said he was the
sheriff, so she told him she was awfully
glad to meet him as she always wanted
to know the person who had built
that nice big hall for the girls, but
couldn’t he let her have her board a
little cheaper. She said she didn’t
think it was fair for the Plaintiff to say
such nasty things about her as she
understood this was a civil suit, but
the Plaintiff hadn’t been civil to her
since the day she bought the hat.

At the conclusion of the case His
Lordship decided to reserve judgment,

== ~Q-———__-
Having nothing to say rarely interferes with the conversation,

The price of popularity is the enduring of many bores.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

HELEN HOLMAN

The Vice-President of the Council,
the “first lady’’ of Dalhousie, Helen
Holman.

Like the President of the Council
Helen is ‘‘a proud native of the Island’’.
Receiving her early education at
Summerside High School and at Netherwood, she came to Dalhousie with a
fine scholastic record, which she has
successfully upheld. During her three
years here, she has been active in
many phases of college life. Since her
first year she has been an interested
member of Midlothian, During her
first two years at the university, she
was an enthusiastic tennis player and
a’member of the team. Last year
she was an active contributor to the
columns of the ‘‘Gazette’’.

In her junior year she was vicepresident of Class ’87, and this year
is class secretary. Last spring she
was elected to two of the highest
offices open to women on this campus:
vice-president of the Students’ Council,
and president of the Shirreff Hall
House Committee.

Her loyalty to the university has
never wavered, even ata Dalhousie
-Wanderers football game, when her
cheers must be divided between an
individual and a team.

So, to all the new students, we
present one of Dalhousie’s most wellknown and popular women students’,
Helen Holman,

 

Pertinent Patter

The Mouthpiece

Perhaps a few words are in order| Editor,

concerning the High and Mighty
Moot Court of the past week. One
has always understood the Moot
Courts to be of rather an elevated
and instructive calibre. But surely
the last one slipped. Not that. we
are so highly moral that a slightly
risque but witty joke will offend our
delicate nostrils. Yet, along with many
others on this campus we do not believe in dirt for dirt’s sake. The
affair was by no means amusing but,
on the contrary, was as offensive as
the foul obscenity of any gutter mind.
Surely there has been a misdirection
of energy on the part of all participating when more than half of those
present have openly expressed a feeling
of dissatisfaction with the entire pro
ceedings. After all, if a lesson in
personal hygiene and anatomy is
desired it can at least be carried on
with somewhat of the scientific detachment which one might be led to expect
from college students.

Evidently we don’t have to tell you
what a great game there was _ last
Saturday for the attendance was very
good, It began to feel like old times
to see the slight trickles of enthusiasm
welling up throughout the crowd.
There’s just one question, however—
does anyone know who owned that
prehistoric Ford?

Is fencing a sissy sport? Dalhousie
says yes. But those of the old guard
say it is the most manly of sports,
the most exciting, the best for exercise.
Possibly Dalhousie is wrong—for remember the days when you wouldn't
dare admit that that was a ping-pong
table which you had hidden in the
dark corner of your cellar. Now it
is a common sight to see our favorite
he-men with knotted brow and perspiring faces tensely following the
movements of the little white celluloid
sphere.

(Continued on page 6.)

Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:

My plea is short and will not take
up much space. It is this—why in
the name of the bloated pigskin can’t
the football players have a little hot
water after practices, and, more particularly, after games? Through the
columns of the Gazette and from
every quarter we are urged to go out
and die for good old Dalhousie—and
we aren’t even given hot showers.
I don’t know who is to blame—whether
it is the football manager, the D. A.
A. C,, the Engineer in charge of
Grounds and Buildings, or the University Office—but whoever it is, they
should be severely censored.

Surely when the University takes
half the football gate receipts (and
I don’t know why it should, since the
Council pays for~«all the upkeep of
said football field, etc.), surely they
might give us some hot water, instead
of trying to kill the goose which lays
the golden egg.

Urgently yours,
A Footballing Engineer.

(Continued on page 6)
—--— - Q-—— —The use of profanity is the indication
of a limited vocabulary.

Odorless Cleaning

SUITS
DRESSES
TOP COATS

Wanderers.

Knock! Knock!!

The Dalhousie Senior football team
came back with a vengeance Saturday,
Dalhousie’s football tradition as a
team of fighting ‘Tigers’’ was vindicated and the present squad has
justified existence. To say the
least, the confidence of many loyal
Dalhousians in their team was shaken
when the Tigers absorbed that trimming from the Wanderers over a week

its

ago. However, that confidence was
completely restored by Saturday's
| magnificent victory at Studley. Yes
Sir! the team have certainly shown

that they’ve got ‘‘what it takes’

The team to a man took the field
Saturday determined to avenge their
previous defeat at the hands of the
The boys were ‘‘on the
spot”’ it were, hence had to
prove that last week’s score was the
result of an “ for the team asa

as and

off day”

whole and not a true indication of
the team’s ability. They settled that
question in fine style in the only

manner in which such things could be
settled, by a win from Wanderers on the ‘‘playing field.”

namely,
However, Saturday’s game was keenfought with neither team
much edge on the other,
kept the Wanderer’s
covered, with particular attention being
paid to Bauld Crease. On the
other hand the mistakes of a week
ago were remedied and the Dal back
field tackled hard and did
the Wanderers’ to get many ‘‘breaks’”’.
The Dalhousie were right
on the job and in our opinion had a
slight edge on the Wanderers’ forwards,
Stewart and DeWolfe handed out their
share of bumps to the opposing team,
while
first senior

ly having
The Tigers
backfield well

and

not allow

forwards

Irwin (playing
game this year) tackled |
hard and strengthened the team considerably. In short, the entire team
were in there fighting all the way.
Not the least to deserve credit was
Captain ‘‘Pat’’ Gunter, one of the
most effective forwards in Maritime
football. And take it from me, it
required the best the Dalhousie team
could give to keep the Wanderers’ pack
from scoring different occasions,
during the last period especially.

Ross and his |

on

With proper practice and coaching
the Dalhousie team should stand an
even chance to annex the city title.
Dalhousie has the material to do this,
But it will take faithful training under
coaches who have the confidence of
the players. In our opinion the team
has capable coaches now in the persons
of Professors Fletcher and MacDonald,
and the success of the team will in
the final essence depend on the players
themselves.

o——_—

The Gossips

WINNIE WINSHULL

another
The epidemic
seems

Time marches and
co-ed has deserted Dal.
of falling

‘‘mac’’ing quite a hit.

on,

for Axemen to be

Charlie has a little car,
Kay never will get lost in.
He doesn’t drive it very far
Because it is an Austin,

Marion G,, heard at the football
game, ‘‘What a Storey’”’ and she
wasn’t referring to something she'd
read,

We can explain Fran Gardner's
devoted interest in choir practises;
she likes the “gym’’ work,

Though we've always understood
that the duties of a S. H. president
were very pressing, the present one

finds time to knit a sweater for her

“Teddy Bear”

Even though “Smitty” returned to
her Alma Mater for the week-end,
she seems to find everything ‘‘Jake”

at Dalhousie.

 

PRESSING AND REPAIRING

CLOREX CLEANERS

40 SACKVILLE ST.

Cash and Carry

 

Telephone B 8460

Page Five
ee FAVES

 

 

Well and Firmly Made

SWEET
CAPORALS

Eee
Ee

 

BUCKLEY’S
Five
Drug Stores

DRUGS—COSMETICS

 

DALHOUSIE RINGS—

In Stock Birks carry Dalhousie University rings official designs in both silver
and gold.

Special jewellery for classes
and college societies made to

order. and

Ask for designs and prices.

TOILETRIES
OF ALL KINDS

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

: Stor
Diamond Merchants ay

Conveni
Bartington: St: onveniently Located

 

 

 

    

When You Need
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

better SERVICE VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

CAPITOL

 

 

You get and

at

 

 

 

Time Out-
        
       
     
      
   
   
 

 

TODAY -SAT. - MON.
SHIRLEY | A little recreation
TEMPLE now and then is profiN | itable, and in this
“DIMPLES” | connection THE
with GREEN LANTERN
Frank MORGAN offers a _ service in

Lunches and Drinks,

   

TUES..-WED.—THURS.

“CHINA CLIPPER”
PAT O’BRIEN
BEVERLY ROBERTS

pleasing indeed.

 

The Green Lantern

Men’s G6afonia
Solid Leather Shoes

Outstanding Value
Pair

Good fitting shoes that are outstanding value in their
own price field! Made of all leather, with rubber or
leather heels. There are brogue and blucher styles of
plain calf and grained feathers and fine kids. A number
of styles made with arch support. Sizes 6 to 11.

T.EA

Eaton's Second Floor

ATON

RITIM

©
LIMITED

 

 
  
   

i as yan Frosh team
or had a decided edge. Buss Philips
ker scored on a penalty kick; Garson
Bt plunged over after Whalley’s 40 yard
run and Babe Stewart counted on
a nice drop-kick from ,25 yards out.

bs | - Medicine 9, Commerce-Engineers 0

Medicine greatly superior, both in
\ weight and. experience easily crushed
and: their opponents 9-0, The doctors
| forced the play throughout and only
the stubborn defensive tactics of the
losers kept the score down. Gosse
dl opened the scoring after a 85 yard
run; Beeber plunged over from a
’ mixup on the 5 yard line; and Leibowitz

crashed through just before the whistle.

Arts and Science 5, Law 3

Arts and Science took over first
place when they gained a 5-8 victory
over the powerful Law squad last
Tues

oth téeline worked hard with Law
heving a slight edge in the play.

Law countered first when John
Fisher crashed over from a mixup
but the attempt to convert fell short.
Garson evened the count plunging
over from a scrum and Babe Stewart
made good the convert for the winning
score. |

Freshmen — Fullback, Rowlings;
three-quarters, Grant, Thuegood, Maciy Keen, Reynolds; halves, Fennell, HatVr field; forwards, MacLeod, MacGregor,
het Woodworth, Burchell, Roberts.
Arts and Science—Fullback, Hart;
F three-quarters, Murray, Stewart, Mer“ie kel; halves, Lyall, Garson, Wisewell;
forwards, Vair, Crook, Philips, Whalley,
Hendry, Ballem.
 Commerce-Engineers — Fullback,
Biglow; three-quarters, MacDuff, Chernin, Stanfield, Hubley; halves, Wright,
Napier; forwards, Weldon, Moss, MacDonald, Huddleston, Purves.
r ‘Medicine—Fullback, Worrell; threea “quarters, Miller, MacLellan, Miller,
ee tein; halves, Garten, Gosse, Stod- dard; forwards, Leibowitz, Beeber,
* tie >Kenzie - Jarvie, Mach eil,, BARS

    
 
 

fe Law--Fullback, Kitz: three-quarters,
cease. Baird, Baldwin, Gaudet;
halves, Cameron, MacDonald, Armstrong; forwards, Grant, Burchell, Ash,
Fisher, O’Brien, Rowley, Swetnam.

a Referee, Johnny Carroll.

See Mersey Mill

The students of the Department of
Commerce on Tuesday of last week
journeyed to Liverpool to make an
inspection tour of the Mersey Pulp

and Paper Co., situated there.

This tour, which is the first in a
series, planned by Prof. MacDonald
and the officers of the Commerce
Society to give the students of the
department an idea of the practical
side of industry, was a particularly
interesting one.

This rather novel idea is being
carried out in the hope that the students
after seeing the industry in progress
will be better fitted to understand the
problems encountered by the particular
concern, The students not only were
given an insight into the different
phases of production but also the

BY © problems faced by this particular,
| concern in marketing, and distribution.

 

 

¥ Pertinent Patter

(Continued from page 5.)

The coming of the English debaters
is the first plank in the platform of
Sodales for this year. It is indeed
too late now to encourage a bumper
attendance, but it does raise the
| whole question of participation in
aa debating. It is unfortunate that so
little interest in debating is taken
by both the students and the professors
on the Studley campus. The law
student usually has to realize the
importance of public speaking to his
future career, but surely it is not
necessary to point out the advantage
eos of poise and ability in speaking to the
 - average undergraduate So let’s go
to the major debates and learn from
at” the more experienced speakers, and
ut then let’s try ourselves. And when
the Bennet Shield Debates roll around
once more is it not possible to have
some little coaching from our professors? .

~
~

 
 
 
 
 
 
   

   
   
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
  

 

The Mbdthpiece

(Continued from Page 5)

Dear Knock Knock

Much as I enjoyed reading your
Vasticls in last week’s Gazette, I cannot
|help disagreeing with your conclusions
regarding the future of Canada and
the United States. It is my fervent
belief that our Dominion has much
more to gain from a political connection
with the United States than from our
present British affiliation. It is also
my hope that eventually all the
English-speaking peoples of North
America will be united under one
Government,

To be sure, there are many obstacles
in the way of this union. The chief
of these is the existence in this country
of many people who, like Professor
Leacock, unthinkingly chant, ‘‘Canada
won’t go Yankee.” What they really
mean is that they disapprove of certain
American policies, e. g.; of the election
by popular vote of judges, sheriffs,
and district attorneys, also of the
many loopholes in their legal system,
such as inter-state extradition laws
whereby criminals may escape justice.
What our nationalists forget is the
great similarity between the two
countries in language, literature, laws,
and ideals, These are the essential
things in life which by far overshadow
the minor differences between our two
nations. There are Americans as well
who disapprove with quite good logic
of certain of our policies such as the
appointment of senators, the existence
of lieutenant-governors and of a small
group of titled aristocrats. The Americans, however, realize that, north of
the Rio Grande, this continent is
meant to be one country both for
economic and defensive reasons. The
chief cause of wars in Europe is the
existence of international boundaries
and of different languages. On this
continent the boundary is almost
entirely artificial and has been arranged
only for political reasons. Our language and racial origin are the same.
Our destiny should be one,

We, Americans, are fortunate in

being able to mould our own future.
The Europeans are entangled in a
web of international jealousies,
worn-out conventions of an
national system which was forced

and
inter
upon them in the past. If the languages of our two countries were
different, and our populations more
nearly equal, any sort of amalgamation would perhaps be impossible.

Now is the time to talk of union.

In another fifty or a hundred year
it may be too late. For, if present
trends continue, our population will
be then largely French-Canadian and
far more nationalistic. It is our
duty as university students to spread
the doctrine of international goodwill,
not aS mere idealism but as a practical
end ‘towards which we can strive.

e..<,

 

Queens’ Apology

Kingston, Oct. 18—The athletic
board of control of Queen's university
has sent a letter of apology to McGill
university and published an apology
in the Kingston Whig-Standard regarding a fracas which climaxed the Queen’sMcGill football game Saturday, in
which a McGill student was allegedly
“roughed-up” by tri-color freshmen.
It is also understood that the alma
mater society, student governing body,
will investigate the affair,

The alleged assault occurred after
McGill students painted the Queen’s
goal-posts and interior walls of the
Richardson stadium. The sophomores
are understood to have instructed the
freshmen to square matters with any
McGill students they could find after
the game.

The frosh, clad in pyjamas,
across the gridiron about 300 strong
at the conclusion of the game. They
swarmed into the grandstand before
the patrons had begun to move.
They found only one student, accompanied by a girl. It is alleged
that they tore off his red and white
colors and tried to cut his hair, McGill
players came to the rescue and for a
few minutes the air was thick with
flying fists, until order was restored.

Dr. R. C. Wallace, newly installed
Queen’s principal, called a meeting of
officials and an apology was sent to
McGill.

rushed

———_—— -Q— — =

In darkest Africa two natives were
watching a leopard chasing a large
fat white man.

“Can you spot the winner~” said one,

“The winner is spotted,” retorted
the other,

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sport Reviews

 

The Tigers gained sweet revenge
on Wanderers last Saturday when they
won a hard-fought 3-0 victory over
the Redmen. Jimmy Mont, Freshman
star, again proved himself the hero
of the occasion, following up a Tiger
kick and coming out of a maze of
Wanderers players to snare the ball
for the only try of the game. But the
team as a whole deserves credit for
they fought hard every inch of the
way especially when hard pressed and
treated those in the stands to a greatly
improved brand of ball with bad tackling dnd fumbling not nearly so prominent as previously.

Perhaps no Dalhousie team has
suffered more serious player-losses in
the past two years than has the basketball team. By the loss of such stars
as Ted Crease and Mit Musgrave of
last year’s team the Tigers will this
year enter the city league with Doug
Crease as the only member of the
championship squad of two years ago.
Several newcomers, indeed, will bolster
the team considerably, notable Rod
Ideson, former Acadia star, but unless
some real find is uncovered in practice
Dalhousie is likely to be the weak
sister of the league. Wanderers and
Y. M. C. A. hoopsters are already
turning out for practice sessions so
it seems about time the Tigers did
likewise not only in the hope of finding
new material but to develop what is
already there.

The player situation in the hockey
team is exactly opposite to that in
basketball, All last year’s team is
back with the exception of the goalies.
In addition many newcomers will be
out who will make any one of the
regulars step to keep his position.
Notable among them is Ken Beer,who
last year played senior hockey with
the Charlottetown Abbies, Harvey
Conn and John Dickey, St. Mary’s
stars and Jim Mont who was a member
of Bloomfield’s championship team
last year. As yet prospects for a
goalie are not very bright but Manager
Carroll is confident he will uncover
one in time for the opening of the
league. Practices are scheduled to
get underway not later than the first
week in November,

——— 0-—_—-—
On Tobacco

(Continued from page 4.)

variety of types. Offhand we can
think of the big butter-and-egg man
dandling a chorine on his incipiently
arthritic knee. The rotund, smugly
successful Commerce graduate is not
completely attired without a proportionately rotund cigar in the corner
of his mouth. Little Pompey, too,
is very apt to be smoking a cigar—
not Trichinopoly, to be sure, but still—
a cigar. A harassed city editor, or
busy executive is often pictured champing at a cigar until it is completely
mucenated, without having first undergone the ordeal of fire. And we all
know the little fellow who plays the
big shot and invests in a nickel cigar
on Saturday nights.

When I contemplate the feminine
aspect of cigar smoking, but one hardy
Amazon in literature or history who
so indulged comes to mind. In Burnett’s [tile Caesar, Otero’s girl friend
was an inveterate cigar smoker. She
also beat Otero when she got drunk.
"Nuff said.

Years ago, men who smoked cigarettes were also expected to wear red
neckties. Nowadays, though, cigarette smoking is so prevalent that on
does not associate it with any one
type or even any small group of various
types. Outstanding, however, are the
following: '

1. The rat-faced, undersized droopy
lidded snipe whose cigarette dangles
from his lower lip.

2. The aristocrat who extracts his
crested cigarette from a crested case,
inserts it into a crested holder and
asks you whether you prefer Deauville
or Biarritz.

3. The chiseler.

Female cigarette smokers may be—
should be—lumped into one category.
Those who smoke because it’s smart,

Your analyst will now beat a strategic
retreat to a previously prepared position, and will await, without much
equanimity, the onslaught from Shirreff
Hall. Having learned from the ItaloEthiopian conflict that the International Red Cross Convention is a
mere scrap of paper, your rusher-inner
where-angels-fear-to-treader has made
his shelter gas proof.

—
—
KL LLL sts

Says Win Planned

GOAL-POSTS, HOOPS, AND
HURDLES

Despite the local newspapers, its
not luck that wins football games, but
honest to goodness strategy. The
lone score that won the game Saturday
was a planned play. With the ball
on Wanderers 5 yd. line, Squank
popped the idea. Some of you may
have seen the two man takeoff on an
all American huddle, but you couldn’t
miss the try, it was the sweetest sight
that ever greeted a Tiger fan.

It’s time the meek at Dalhousie,
started inheriting their just claim
in the spotlight of sports. The D. A.
A. C. talks of budgets and the student
body retaliates with ‘‘What do we
get out of it.” This is followed by
a discussion of how few men really
participate in athletic pursuits and
so it goes, on and on.

There are many sports for the lads
who for some reason or other do not
care to join the artillery. Football,
Hockey, basketball, may be a bit too
tough for the little fellows, that’s no
to neglect the minor
There’s a sport available for any man.

reason sports,

It would not be amiss to reorganize
the fencing club that was abandoned
about five years ago.
and instruction are available for the
asking. At the wrestling meeting yesterday too few men showed up.
Sterling and Manager Pauker wants

Foils, masks

Coach

recruits who have never tried the
sport so that their instruction will
reach fertile territory. There is a

weight class suitable for any physique.
Latent talents
downtown movie could be directed in a
creative pursuit. The opportunity
to sense the feel of competition,
participate in organized sports
feel the drive of muscular power,
yours for the courage to try it.

wasting away in a

and

is

Time is drawing near for the Interfaculty track meet. Medicine, the
Victors of yester-year chose Abe (Bucky
Epstein to manage the team. Bucky
it is recalled, took the honors last
year by beating Henry Ross to the
tape. From all indications there will
be a marked reversal of form when
they meet this time for Henry’s
conditioning against Stan Young of
the Wanderers will stand him in good
stead when the track meet approaches.

Several men are out training daily.
“Streamline’’ Hubley the Engineer
hope is practicing a quick get-away
for the 60, 100, and 220 yd. sprints.

Arts and Science will send no lesser
light than Cicero Ritchie to cop the
honors in the sprints. Cicero is a
natural and only a few finishing
touches are needed. Coach Sterling is
now busy at work on our Roman
senator and incidentally is eager to
train aS many aspirants as are available. Dig up the old spikes,
and start circling the football field.

boys,

Nothing is more luscious than a
choice morsel of inside information.
If those boots Beeber carries around
during the games has kept you guessing,
guess more. They were carried
in the game against Acadia for Doug
Crease who wanted to change at the
half time. In the slaughter at the
Wanderers grounds there were no
changes to be made, hence no boots.
In the last game Phillips (Blue soxed
front liner) made the request for a
change at the half time and the boots
reappeared. Coincidentally both
games were victories for Dalhousie
so don’t be surprised to see those
boots at every game till their lucky (?)
charm is broken.

no

Cubs Lose Game

Dalhousie Intermediates lost their
first game of the season when they
were downed 8-0 by a heavier Wanderer’s squad at Studley on Saturday
afternoon. The play was fairly even
throughout with the visitors having a
slight edge in the scrum. After a
scoreless first half, the Wanderer’s
began the period with a nice backfield
run which netted them a long gain,
following which Hare scored the first
try for the Redmen. The convert
was booted across by Ryde. Don
MacGregor was given an opportunity
to score for the Cubs by a penalty kick,
but the ball missed the posts by a
wide margin. The Wanderers were
then given another penalty but it was
not successful. On the run back of
the return kick Scott crashed over
for the second try, but it was not
converted, leaving the final score 8-0.
Ryde was the pick of the Wanderers,
while Hodgson and D. MacGregor
were outstanding for Dal.

%

 

October 23rd, 1936

Spend Your Off Hours

at the

Maritime Business College
73 COLLEGE STREET.

Individual instruction for Special Students in:
ACCOUNTING SHORTHAND
TYPEWRITING
Hours and terms on application.

E. KAULBACH, C. A., W. A. STECH, C. A.,

Principal. Vice Principal.

 

The Perfect Christmas Gift
A PHOTOGRAPH

CLIMO

501 Barrington St. Phone B 7665

E VANGELINE

565 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

Try us For

TOASTED HOT DOGS
LIGHT LUNCHES
CIGARS CIGARETTES
CONFECTIONERY

QUIETNESS MUSIC SERVICE

 

 

HALF SOLES 60c.
RUBBER HEELS 25c.
FULL/SYLES. 1.25.

All Materials and Work
manship guaranteed.

 

WE CALL AND
DELIVER

EMPIRE SHOE REBUILDERS

430 BARRINGTON STREET.

 

!

 

 

New-
RECIPES
FIXTURES
MANAGEMENT

DOOKS

SOOR Pm

CAPITOL BUILDING

LUNCHES
CONFECTIONERY
TOBACCOS

COME IN AND BRING YOUR FRIEND

MAKE IT A DALHOUSIE GET-TOGETHER
AFTER THE SHOW

 
