Model League

of Nations

      
 

  

Meets at Dal

The Rail
Next Week

Problem

         
   

 

HALIFAX, N.S., FEBRUARY 19th, 1937 No. 17

VOU ASV

DALHOUSIE GREATES MANY NEW SCHOLARSHIPS

FE - Dalhousie Will Celebrate
E Her Centenary Next Year

«
oe

Thirty-Six Scholarships

2.

 

 

Scenes from ‘‘Hay Fever’

 

 

“Nupily can BE veRy BEAUTIFUL CLARA.” | “You must Say ‘1S AN ENTRANCING

Mark Gigantic Progress
Say what you like, 1988 is going Model League

In pursuit of what has been termed
a most ambitious program, our Debating Society jointly with our neighbouring colleges is to convene on Feb.
25th, 26th, and delegates from
four Maritime Universities for the
annual session of the Model Assemby
of the League of Nations. It is
reported that this year, the Model
Assembly will truly be a model one
from all view-points.

Chief conveners are Ernest Higgins
and Wilkie Grant. With the experienced aid of Profs. MacKay and
Curtis, an outstanding agenda has
been prepared. Questions of national
and international importance are to
be vehemently debated. Each participant is to defend the policies of a
given nation.

Douglas McKeen and Anna Hirsch
as.the Lodging and Entertainment
Committee, are sparing neither time
nor effort to furnish accomodation
for the twenty-five delegates.

The representatives of the Universities of New Brunswick, Acadia,
Mount Allison and St. Francis Xavier
are scheduled to arrive on Thursday
evening. The first of these sessions
which are to be held in the Haliburton
Room of King’s College, is to be
solemnly opened with a word of
welcome by his Worship Mayor Cragg.
An address by a _ prominent local
speaker is to open the afternoon sitting.
The evening entertainment will be
the presentation of a Glee Club production ‘‘Hay Fever’ with dance
following. Subsequent to the Saturday morning meeting a banquet at a
local hotel is to close the session.

It is reported that the Committe
is in quest of speakers to represent
our institution. Those interested, will
please refer their names to the abovementioned Comn ittee.

er to be a big year for this college by
the sea. In the summer of next year,
there will be more graduates strolling
around the campus then there ever
were at one time before. And the
reason:
I It will be just 100 years since the
establishment of continuous teaching
i here. One hundred years since schol_ ars first occupied desks in Dalhousie’s
E first building where City Hall now
stands.

b Alumni are already meeting
various parts of Nova Scotia to ar7 range for the tlree-day celebration
c that is going to be held two Augusts
from now. In Halifax a committee
. has been formed to organize plans
 . and advertise the reunion and to
. arrange a- program that will draw
some of Canada’s most distinguished
citizens to Studley.

ea Students, too, are looking forward
ae to the celebrations. Probably the
___ various undergratuate classes will make
___—- @frangements for mass representation
at the reunion, It is not often that

in

 
   
   
   
  
  

   
 
  
 
  

Wa tikawas < hot day in-Aupuct, 1888.
when Rev. Dr. Thomas McCulloch
became president of the university
and taught the first classes to a tiny
student body. One hundred years
later, graduates and undergraduates
will congregate from far and near to
recall the aims of Lord Dalhousie,
expressed during his address at the
ceremony of laying the cornerstone
of the first building, May 22, 1820:

“This College of Halifax is founded
for the instruction of youth in the
higher Classics and in all Philosophical
; studies; it is founded in imitation of
the University of Edinburgh;........ it
Be is founded upon the principles of
religious toleration........ from this college every blessing may flow over your
country.......may it continue to dispense them to the latest ages! Let
no jealousy distrub its peace; let no
> lukewarm indifference check its growth!

Protect it in its first years and it will
abundantly repay your care!’

Perhaps the changes and improvements that have been wrought in
the 117 years since he made that
address have born out his prophesy,

 
  

 

=

rf but most students like to think the
f university still has room for great
_.  €xpansion and improvement. New
i professional faculties have been intro. duced, the campus has shifted twice:

F from the original site to Forrest and
i from Forrest to Studley, and the
i faculty and student body has doubled
and redoubled time and again. Graduates are represented in every walk

re i

, of Canadian public and private life.
bg There is no “lukewarm indifference”
- to the university’s future among the

eo

re

students of today. They will attend
the centenary by the score.

The year 1818 will also be remembered by the reunionists, for it was that
year the university was first conceived
by the Earl of Dalhousie, then Governor
. of Nova Scotia. In that year he set
i aside a sum of money, known as the
Castine Funds, which had been collected as customs fees and other levies

ae ae
- " te L* a.

‘fer eo
A 5

| by a detachment of Halifax troops
e _ which captured the port of Castine,
i Me., during the War of 1812.

La

Me An alumnus re-union committee
ty __ appointed recently under the chair_ -manship of Major John S. Roper.

 

 

   
  

 

 

Radio Debaters

It has beentruly avictorious week
for Sodales. Two unanimous decisions
in one week is an occurence most
worthy of mention. Following the
St. John Law School victory, our
speakers Roger Rand and _ Daniel
Halperin lassoed home a bacon enormous enough to satisfy anyone's
glutton appetite for honors. Such
can be chiefly accountable to the
well-reasoned arguments of our team
in upholding that the History of the
World has been dependent upon the
digestive tract. The Mount A. team
seems to have had some difficulty
in getting rid of the well-known mikefright.

Roger Rand opening the discussion
remarked that History and digestive
tract are similar in that both are long
and involved. Proofs of the dependency lie in every chapter, on every
page of our volumes of History. The
proverb ‘“‘a way to a man’s heart is
through his stomach” is a truth of
vast application. —

~ Daniel Halperin, joined emphatii}cally his colleague ‘inthe ambitious

contention. Diplomatic relations are
always of a more assured success,

if the history-making discussions are
held during a banquet. In another
aspect, who denies the dangerous
precedents established in our Courts
of Law by some old grouchy judges
suffering from gout, nervousness or
heart trouble.

Robert Condon and George Buckley, Mount A. debaters, attributed
important international events and
various martial successes to causes
deeper and truly more direct than
the digestive tract.

 

Beatty Speaks

An outstanding event of the Dalhousie year is the lecture of Sir Edward Beatty, President of the C.P. R.,
at the gymnasium tonight, on the
subject of “The Canadian Railway
Problem”. The reputation and _ prestige of the speaker, and the very
great importance of the question
which he will discuss will ensure the
attendance of a large crowd. The
railway problem is in many respects
the mest important immediate problem in Canadian political and economic
life, Perhaps no one is better qualified
to speak on this subject than Sir
Edward, and everybody will look
forward with great interest to his
treatment of the question.

This lecture is another of the very
fine series which Dalhousie is presenting under the auspices of the
Dalhousie Institute of Public Affairs.
Other speakers who will be coming
in the next few months are—Tom
Moore, of the Canadian Unemployment Commission; Principal Morgan
of McGill University; and Miss Charlotte Whitton of Ottawa.

GAZETTE MEETING

All Gazette staff members
and contributers, and all others
interested in the Gazette are
requested to attend a staff meeting in the Gazette Office, Murray
Homestead, Saturday, Feb. 20,
at 12 noon. Everybody out and
help us finish up the season
with a bang!

 

aS

"OH caw if! Pernaps BEING A
DRESSER FoR So Long

  
   
  
 

Going To BE
StRENUOUS.”

  

 

 

Radio Finals

This evening at 10 o'clock, Roger
Rand and Daniel Halperin are scheduled to oppose a team of debaters of
St. Francis Xavier. This is the second
lap in the C. B. C. debates and should
Dal be favoured with a decision, it
will picture in the Upper-Canadian
finals most probably against McGill
University.

The topic under discussion this
evening, ‘‘Resolved that, under present
world conditions, dictatorship is preferable to parliamentary system”,
should draw considerable interest. In
defending the negative side of the
proposition, our debaters are expected
to point the many advantages of our
present regime. Dictatorship because
of its unstableness, persistency in
national selfishness should be looked
upon as a great impediment toward
a lasting world peace.

Our debaters have this year obtained
successes which should put the sport
teams to shame. Let’s wish them
good luck and assure them of our
cooperation in their efforts by tuning
in tonight.

—_O0——_———
Students Abroad

A large number of Dalhousians are
flying oft to distant parts during the
next few days. Mount Allison will
receive with open ‘arms a team of
Dal debaters, Len Kitz and Henry
Hicks, and also the senior basketball
team for an exhibition game Saturday
night. Dal radio debaters this week
were fortunate enough to defeat Mt.
Al over the air, and it is hoped that
this team will be equally successful.
The basketball team lost a -close
decision to the Sackville team last
Saturday, thus breaking a long record
of no basketball defeats by Mount
Allison, but it is hoped that they
will stage a come-back tomorrow night.

The hockey team is travelling to

Acadia next Monday to complete
the provincial intercollegiate playdowns. Last Wednesday the Tigers

took the Axemen for a 7-8 victory,
and if they can keep Acadia from
scoring four more goals than they
do next Monday, Dal Will go ahead
to meet St. F. X. in the provincial
finals next week.

” “AT Your AGE,
DEAR, 11 would BE
INDECENT 4F You

“{DONT SEE THE PoINT
IN TRYING To BE YounqeR

 
 

AMUSEMENT. \

  

iow.

    

——___________u,
IM DEVASTATING,
ENTIRELY LACKING IN

* RESTRAINT.”

 

 

Reach New Peak

The series of very fine radio programmes presented under the auspices
of the Students’ Council and directed
by John Fisher reached a new peak
last night with the presentation of
an interesting All-Nations broadeast.
Presented to illustrate how  widespread is Dalhousie’s fame and from
what distant countries her students
come, the programme consisted of an
interview with students from five
different countries. Each said a few
words on the differences between
Canada and his native land, and
spoke a few words in the language
of the country from which he hailed.
Among the very welcome foreigners
in our midst who were interrogated
were Toshio Kittagawa of Japan
(Pine Hill), Count Carmino de Catanzaro of Denmark (King’s), Senor
Pedro Sanchez of Puerto Rico, Lucho
Fraser of Peru (King’s), and Mr.
Chuck Lee of Canton, China.

Debate At Mt. A

Henry Hicks and Len Kitz are on
the platform of Mount A. this evening
engaged in strenuous battle to defend
the honor of their Alma Mater in
the final series of the M. I. D. L.
debates. The resolution that man
should be compelled to retire at 65
is ably upheld by our two well known

speakers. The topic commands no
details. One of the student world
is too well aware that old age is a

hogger of jobs and deprives youth of
livelihood.

Well, bon voyage boys, and here’s
hoping that you will bring back two
more scalps for Sodales’ archives.

 

NOTICE
All societies must submit
nominations for Students’
Council elections to Murray
Rankin, 40 Preston St., not
later than Monday, Feb. 22.

Last day for receiving applications for editors and business
managers of the Gazette and
the Year Book is Saturday,

Feb. 20, at the same address.

 

 

Law Lectures

The Law School is the scene of a
number of interesting lectures these
days. Today at eleven, according
to information at hand at press-time,
Mr. G. McL. Daley, K. C., lectures
on the Conditional Sales Act. Sir
Edward Beatty is to be present to
speak at a banquet for alllaw students,
held under the auspices of Phi Delta
Phi, Weldon Inn. Next Monday Prof.
MacDonald of the Commerce Department will give the first lecture in a
series on ‘‘Accounting”’, Other lectures
are also planned for the near future.

All law students are very grateful
to these outside men who give so
kindly of their time and effort in
presenting these lectures.

paler na gegen 4 te

Enjoyable Dance

A very enjoyable dance was held
Wednesday night by the newly-formed
Arts and Science Society. Held in
the gymnasium, the dance was attended by a large crowd, who bravedthe
elements. A fine floor show was
put on by Lucho Fraser, Fran Gardiner,
and Martin Blatt, under the supervision of Pat MacDonald. The success of this dance is the crowinig
argument, on top of the successful
Commerce and Council dances, that
the majority of the students prefer
a gymnasium dance,

 

Dalhousie University announces that
three Entrance Scholarships of $200,
$150 and $100 are offered in each of the
following regions (The limits of these
regions may be revised as circumstances warrant):

(1) Prince Edward Island.
(2) and (8) Cape Breton, which

counts as two regions,

(4) Pictou, Antigonish, Guysborough Counties,

(5) Halifax County.

(6) Hants, Queens and Lunenburg
Counties,

(7) Shelburne, Yarmouth, Digby
Counties.

(8) Annapolis and Kings Counties.

(9) Colchester and Cumberland
Counties.

(10) Westmoreland and Albert
Counties, New Brunswick.

(11) Kings and St. John Counties,
New Brunswick.

(12) Other parts of New Brunswick.

Candidates for these scholarships

will qualify first by writing a preliminary general examination, set by Dal
housie University, not later than
April. This paper may be written
in any school in the Maritime Provinces, =...

Copies of the paper will be sent to
any school or academy principal who
applies for them. The copies will be
sent in a sealed envelope, addressed
to the principal, and are to be opened
by him or his deputy in the presence
of the examination candidates. Ansare to be sealed
envelopes, to University
on the same day,

The general examination is not a
test of prepared school work. It
cannot be prepared for by cramming.
[t will consist of a wide range of
optional questions, only a fraction
of which are to be attempted, and
the candidate will be graded on what
he does, not on what he leaves unattempted. The aim of the paper
is to test originality of mind, general
knowledge—iiterary, historical, scienti
wers returned, in

Dalhousie

 

fic, or mathematical—and powers of
expression.
Those candidates who do well in

the preliminary examination will be
notified that they have done well as
soon as that examination is marked.
Later, when matriculation results are
available, the matriculation
of the successful candidates in the
preliminary paper be studied;
and the scholarships will be awarded,
in the various regions, by collating
the results of both tests.

rating

will

 

 

—o
Bennett Shield
Yesterday noon, in Room 8 of

Arts Bldg., Freshmen, Douglas McKeen
and Maureen Allan upheld with gusto
that the Newspaper was not a curse

of the age. Graham Murray and
Lorna MacPhee amusingly pointed
that the many perverse influences
they exercise inspire in all moral
minds 2 secret desire for their disappearance or total reorganization
on saner planes,

The meeting was ably conducted
by Sodales’ Vice-President, Edward
Arab.

Flash :—Seniors Win!

The Gazette, on behalf of the
student body, extends to Dean
Vincent MacDonald of the Law

School sincerest sympathy on
the occasion of hisrecent great
loss.

 

 

oe ae eee
 

   

 

 

* * eer ge) ee ee en et pte
“8 ee ee wie whe -. Lot et a EAT MLE ee,
ae a ré fe eee es 7 Wics +e hay + 5 hi - ek
. ‘ agi A1fR — ’ . . i at _* o
; es ee * rm ts ee iF : ra ee ~ s
eS ee a rr ek SS ceeae
Sipe iS ‘
eee : - DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
— |
Rema Gs aris ho | eminine Fury
e- ool" h i oa rs <Y k 5 “4
Lr ey J ‘
“ e ‘Tee i ne IC QO ALL WET
aa ~ PATI a .
at aN . | To the Editor:
cree College Paper in America _So the femmes ain’t treatin’ you
— right, hey! That’stoo bad. But why
use such a dignified vehicle as the
"GAZETTE STAFF. : Studley Story of the Dalhousie Gazette
for your inappropriate and _ illitereate
* Editors. | babblings.
fe MacKEIGAN, M.A. : J. D. CREASE, B.A. You really are comparable to some False Attack
, aaenist § Pp
Ph. (B-2436 5 Ph, B-57387 of the soreheads in our present civic
x ' administration in this old garrison| From all reports, our guest columnist
Cian A ssociales. city as you term it. of last week created quite a dither.
EP “pa Fisher _ _ Edward Arab, B.A. The girls never give you a break! More power to him—he did in one
ae S. MacLatchy, B.A. P. S. Macnutt There is an insurmountable barrier| Week what we've been trying to do
Elizabeth Pearson Kaye Sircom at the door. Well, that’s too bad,|for four months. Now we believe
"Geo. i Murphy, B.A. Elwyn O. Hughes but if you're the type 1 picture you|that the general line of attack that
keel re i ‘riticisms |
. have it comin’ to you. has been used in numerous cri
Sports Editor. an mada et thin colic ‘ake-HAt' tb of his literary efforts has been through
e : the “sour grapes” flank. We might
ARCHIE B. MacKENZIE|be blamed. Rather are they to be RG Sey on
: : : : as well disillusion you here and now,
4 Ph. B-3824 praised for the way in which they ; ; : be
7 ; : “ |because as it happens our writer 1s a
: Associates. put up with such characters as you Stee Wadi. and “a fraternity mien
oar. fi a who look upon feminity as something i See a he se tee s neualhy te
_ L.A, Landreville, B.A. Earle Fraser, B.A. to be bought in carloads and treated a Pah iin ee This Bar
y Gold, B.Sc Arthur Merkel ike dirt. me ie gta Pa aa j
SS P. Merkel ea j ha tuo ticular lad is without said pin, and
j date Reynoids omer The chivalry (I know it died years the weather hasn't been that bad,
? 3 ago) around the Dal campus is con- tied Sih
Business Manager. _ Assisiant Business Manager. spicuous by its absence. The average A certain budding young journalist
_ GORDON K. DALEY B. Com, R. L. ARMSTRONG B.A. one of your type thinks it smart to} sook it upon himself to write an advance
Eb a ‘ Phone B-5700 bark at a lady and order her around, notice of the forthcoming Dramatic
Proof Editor ou tell dirty stories, you drink foul} Club play—and therein lies the tale
CHARLES A. ROBERTS liquor, you keep ner _waiting, YOu of the year’s biggest news-sheet blunleave her standing. Why man alive der, not excluding Alex Nickerson

you ain't got no manners at all.

 

It’s a wonder a lady goes out with
the likes of you.

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

eau DALHOUSIAN DEMOCRACY
SOUR GRAPES

rz Once again the Council of Students elections facetiously
. termed the ‘‘Popularity Contests’’ are approaching. Then representatives from the various societies and classes will be chosen
to carry on the administration of student body affairs for the
_ next year. Then YOU will be called upon to take your part
in the responsibility we have in governing ourselves at Dalhousie.
bir It is reasonable to suppose that the same lack of intelligent
interest that has so characterized this important event in student
life at Dalhousie in the past will again occur. Is it again to be
 areflection on the student body of the University that the elections
- for the most important positions in the self-governing activifies
grt the College will attract no more than a passing interest? Are
_ classes with total memberships of 100 or more to nominate Council
“. candidates at meetings: attended by only 20 or 25 of the faithful?
ov can the best interests of the groups who have the privilege
itation on the Council best be served by placing before
orate ee noe not of the entire group, but only of a

 

To the Editor:

Considerable interest and indignation has arisen from the writings of
one who, writing under the heading
of the Studley Story and signing him
self “A Fed Up Junior’, complains of
the treatment accorded the average
young college male by the co-eds on
this Campus.

He complains of the manner in
|which girls leave their dates at the
doorstep rather than inviting them
in for a snack,

It looks to us like the case of a poor
neglected male. You know well enough
the type we mean...

Sour grapes is the best phrase to
attach to such a personality.

~In a small town it is all very well
for Mary Smith to invite Tom Jones
in for a snack after the show, providing
the said Tom Jones is considered to
be a nice young man and-all the rest.
But in a city (not a mere suburban
locality) the average meeting between
boy and girl brings an entirely unknown young man to parental atten
he -polls as_ of old. 40° register their
lor?’ Si m arly eae tek Maa
2s of Harlow ietrich, Mae
ment on the ballot?
over merit? Itis entirely. up to YOU!
yusie student government exactly what you
ire it to be—is it to be a atecion of Taylors, Gables and
; Elswa és al or a competent legislative body?

-. Bu In choosing your faculty or your class representative to the
Pe wi Souncil you are choosing the man who will represent you, and
i who will have a prominent share in forwarding your views. It
A " is important that you vote for the right man.

_ Already the present Council have chosen a Freshman Repre-| tion.

sentative and nominated men for the Presidency and the| Quite truthfully we believe that the
tae -Vice-Presidency of the New Council—all capable men. The/gitls of this city and the Co-eds of
Gazette in the next issue will carry the pictures and biographies|our fair Dalhousie rank as high in
- _ of the men running for Presidency and the biographies of the} respect to hospitality as any we have
others. Read these biographies with discretion. Great mistakes | met elsewhere.

have been made in the past at Dalhousie—men have been chosen} Charity begins at home as does also
to fill important positions merely because they are well known—.| chivalry. And judging from the treaterely because their names are on the lips of everybody as the|ment accorded the young ladies on
_ result of some service rendered to the University in another field. | this campus by several of the young
Pak int we wish to make is that men should be chosen for these |gallants around, it is little wonder
ities on their merits as administrators, as most of the work )the males don’t rank a cup of coffee.
of the Council requires administrative ability. There seems to be a_ prevalent

“This year has seen Dalhousie risefrom a slough-of stag-|icea that girls are to be treated like
_ nation—attain to new heights—Dalhousie has gone forward—-|slaves. Certain young gentlemen with_ the Constitution has been revised—an Arts and Science Society | im this college come up to the young

- formed—-Dalhousie on the’ air— an Employment Bureau—but|]!ady your with and say “I'll have this

 

we must not stop here for there is yet much to be done and the}dance”. Just iike that... .Nothing
- most important change of all is in the manner of electing Council}more to it....You feel your fist
representatives. elench and realize discretion is the

better part of valor...
however, the situation is becoming
acute....The movement is not very
widespread. ...but the point is it’s here.

A girl seems to be just a date around
this university and consequently she
rates just about that amount of attention. .. .How many girls are actually
told to be ready at 8.30 and then the
young gallapt does not turn up until
around 9.15....You know this type,
he’s quite a nice guy....But he calls
down to the fraternity house just
before he goes for the femme and he
lingers on and on......

Then there is the drinking type.
Last Saturday night a theft of unprecedented magnitude | and that presents another problem. .
occurred at the Gymnasium dance; some unknown person cleaned | Profanity....bad actions... . vulgariut the women’s locker-room of all valuables. The seriousness|ties....All these little annoyances
4  : of this happening can hardly be exaggerated. That no Dalhousie |and embarrassments which mean so
— = gel could have been guilty of this crime is certain, but the fact on to the girl and are so inconsethat the theft occurred in a Dalhousie building at a student func-!quental to the boy...
tion is sufficient cause for all Dalhousians to hang their heads in| Well those things might be quite
‘shame. The authorities, we know, will spare no effort to appre-|in place in the back woods. ...but
_ hend the culprit. The question for us, however, is how to ensure | Halifax is a civilized city
that: such an event will not occur again.

_ Let us spare no words! The solution of the matter is in| ‘One who is in sympathy with
ia ‘the hands of the boys. Let us all co-operate, and, by means | the co-eds of Dalhousie and who

. _ of ostracism or any other method necessary, let us have it Clearly | by the way is quite satisfied with
derstood that no Dalhousie student bring to any student func-|the treatment handed out.”

n any girl who might stoop to such a crime! 3

Sines flesh is weak and it is advisable to remove temptation
er possible, it might also be well in the future to employ
n attendant to take charge of | the woman's locker-room
porta: t panei functions. |

Perhaps you do not know the men who will be running in Quite honestly
the elections—perhaps you know only ONE of the candidates.
If such be the case then make it a point to find out about all the
candidates for whom you can vote.
Forget friendships, fraternities, sororities, the fact that
one of the candidates sits next to you in English II, for the time
being and vote intelligently.

It has been an unprecedented year for doing things at Dalhousie—let’s continue and have a record breaking poll—every
one votes and votes intelligently!

GYMNASIUM THIEVES

oe

fs
eS  .
a ~;

-———<_*o-——___

“T don't think marks are a criterion
of ability.”
“T failed too’’.

rn

ay Pa A , F iad
ket ri sz 4 be. a . Se. .
ee ee ey - b 4 7 f.
Pe ae \ ~ eet ip a“) Foe . a
¥ ve a .: peta a. eet) at on vit “
4 ae ad a an ” : os b > Nie. . ’ > se a , 3
ke a Pas, Ml fs rg oy as Ft, 4" i — ; §
ee ve fi - Pe ete ie fes ‘ ted ; awe 3% ex. Jy 4%
ae - eet ea pe Ei ~* ‘vs = ei I be . os ee pes = " ee nie : S ;
F ae pe spr) ama ne a pee ce SNe re Set ag ee Pl ey Sbgdine We eit ol if
TEA Ht bate a ay ee ee Ese dese yi Mees Te eee ie eee sce eS)
/ jt J. : Pig Pal Ps es ; an ait Kp eee te = habe rth eS os a Tia a a is ea 4:
x ’ ae ; cai oa > ¥ at aie va ee anes ae —. | Ay :
ae r- is ek rg MH p Fae ea sae er Lam i or oa ;
ees 2 ebet ak dar? Boe i a
if : aah 4 eed ee ma weLe

and the cigar box.

You see, this journalist made the
heavy mistake of not checking his
facts. First he wrote that the play,
was being presented on Wednesday
March 24th. Now March the 24th
is a Wednesday, we'll give him credit
for that. But the play
be going on Friday,
26th. One
enormous audacity
it the
the

on
down,

was
yeal

reporters. ...

 

Looking Around

At last we have a dirt columnist
who can laugh at himself... .Pete the
Garbage Man comes through with—
miracle of miracles—a sense of humour

_.a slight odor of examinations albeginning to permeate the
atmosphere....when are they going
to run that indoor track meet....
when they do, we want to watch the
mile and the 220...
ball team...-what a kicking around
they’ve taken....we heard someone
calling them the “Football Hangovers”’

_.still, he was a book-store athlete
like us....funny state of affairs when
the Glee Club can’t get its own stage

ofr rehearsals... .
——_—_9—___——
eat Vv

.poor old basket
A New Word

A new word has been added to our
vocabulary, ‘‘volunteers’’, which means
the troops sent by Germany and Italy
to the Spanish civil war in aid of the
fascists.

 

 

‘“‘BIRK’S DIAMONDS”

A phrase used by Canadians for over half a
century to denote the
ultimate in diamond

value.

There is a reason -- a
visit will convince you.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants

Barrington St.

 

—
CASINO

Starting Saturday
February 20th

GRETA
GARBO

with

ROBERT
TAYLOR

in

 

 

 

“CAMILLE”

 

 

happens to

February

Also he had the

s audacity to announce that

it was “ feature presentation of
e year’. The Glee Club was a
trifle peeved at that because they’re
staging a colossal production on Munro
Day....my, my, these rash young

Pete
. |The Garbage Man

Well, that garbage man’s here again!
which reminds us that Sleepy Miller
Ballem, and Henry Hicks have refused to subscribe for the year book.
sleepy Boy Ballem argues that he
has one from last year, and anyway
he stays at a fraternity where all things
are shared in common.

Some of the more particular Dalhousie co-eds after visiting the gym
store wonder if the male students are

running a_ sit down strike. Don
MacGregor Cameron McNeil and
Simpson are the worst offenders.

simipson by the way frequently wagers,
ae Soe or else I'll eat my _ shirt!”
we heard he sleeps in Sunday so
it can be washed but if this rumor is
false Pete begs him to wash his shirt
before eating it—even though this
column has a foundation of dirt.

And speaking of the morning after,
they used to call paper-weight Wink

Johnson ‘‘half-pint” until they saw
him at the Lawyer’s Ball.
Is Lyon Kaufman really interested

in medicine? Pete hears he studies
anatomy most nights.

Last week we told the story of the Frat

How it housed the “itchey’’ idle rich
and all of that

But now there is a sadder tale, I think,

It has to do with women and with
drink

(Than whom no greater friend man
hath).

For a month at Sigma Chi

Some one drained the water dry

But no one knew till Archie went to
take a bath.

Pp. S.—Outside of Fraternities, what’s
really amiss

Is that several write poetry far worse
than this!

Pete. bitterly renounces Elwyn
Hughes for stealing a hat from the
garbage can. It is a blue, shapeless
reversible dip which when turned
inside out still looks foolish. The
President of Arts and Science should
be above such things. If he wears
it to College after next Monday—
woe betide him.

PETE.

 

: February 19th, 1937

The Home Stretch ©

Well, folks, its Lent again and we're
back on the home stretch to the finish
line in Dalhousie’s annual steeplechase. What a race, what a race!
Except for a few stragglers, the horses
are pretty well bunched right now,
but its this final grind that will tell,

 

From now till Munro Day, a mad
scramble of fraternity formals, minor
parties, glee clubs and class socials........
a whirl, a twirl, a dizzy, giddy whirl
until you sink into a library chair
in a daze through which it is hard
to regret that those rows of rickety
tables will be set up so soon in the gym

The library will become more stuffy,
more crowded, more _ cathedral-like
with the studes muttering over their
books as if chanting a last requiem
of some sort to themselves, And
the gymnasium........not so much badminton or basketball, but more pingpong than ever........ soon Red_ lecks
up the drying room for good and starts
playing interminable games of ‘21's’
with Harold until the examination
tables get in their way-...... if Harold
is busy he goes into the store and
matches nickels he wins from Harold
with freshmen who don’t know any
better and wins their nickels too.

frantic
more

The labs have scenes of
activity, and officials estimate
apparatus is broken during the month
of March than during the rest of the
term combined. In the class-rooms,
some of the professors spend hours
telling everyone their exams will be
no push-overs and everyone had better
get to work pretty soon, or else_......_...

And then there’s the weather, perpetually gray and murky, which paints
an appropriate background for the
scene. Wind, rain, fog and mud
through March. Class 338’s side-walks
will always be blessed at this time of
the year.

sie denignd penis

Bounties Will be Paid—

Ought-to-be-hungs: Old — family
friends who say, ‘‘And how was school

today?”’....Professors who keep attendance records. .. .meal-time phoneuppers. .. .cigarette chisellers. .. . porch

light-leaver-onners.

Sturdy Footwear ... Moderately Priced

“Renown” OXFORDS

Outstanding Value

pair 4.00

New styles and leathers in this popular EATON line
of footwear have just arrived —See them on display
in the Department and choose a pair from the wide
range offered for your selection.

Shoe Department—Second Floor

“T EATO

"MARIT

TIM ON Cre

 
   
   
 
 
  

  

‘seems He big hoaiak highlight
the week (or maybe we should
t ji es was the Engin-|
.. The boys

. lovely

 
  

.... lovely party. .
few of the’ heh: sSots centred
a id the difficulty encountered by
| Frank Pearson and Blair Purvis who.
had trouble with the Engineer's milk
Ee .Ron Hiseler complained of the
eat , ack of ginger ale... .“Sheeper” Bigelow put on his usual fine act. _. the
& jokes were the cleanest in years.
ee Bes; Art Huddleston gave evidence of aK
i abundance of this and that....and
go the party went on. S Mites. they
dined they danced. . After they dan
  

 
  
 

  

ae Ladies and gentlemen, we wish to
present to you Roger Rand. Roger
will henceforth be known as the man
with the autographed shirt........
- None other than the Premier of our
2 et _ fair province scrolled his signo upon
the hardened breast plate of the
jovial Roger.

  

ag -Ern Higgins had a few of the boys
_ in the ‘other evening....they went
OME. oe *

11.07 p. m. was a very momentous

- oceasion for several young gents last

Saturday night....Where were you

at 11.07 Saturday night? Think fast,
boys.

We notice that Ted Crease has
followed the “Seed’s” example and
purchased an Austin....One would

— think that Ted might well have profited
by Don’s mistake or so thinks Marion
Geldert....Not only is the car not
very spacious but Halifax is a small

city. ...there are very few Austins, ..
and an Austin seen in out of the way
places leads to rather embarrassing
questions. .., Dreadfully sorry, Marion.

Leo the Frenchman is at present
involved in his annual love affair....
tee \ _ Last year if you will remember he

had his trunk moved to Shirreff Hall

_ much to the consternation of Fran.
_ This year the Newman Club provided
hi with ae necessary — knockdown,

 
 
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
     
   
   
 
     
   
    
   
   
    
 

alas > | Ine the opinion of the wise and wondrous,

hful | An end to college trouble can be had
‘If college love affairs become more

a pete a pice evening with ‘the
a ple, girl friend. .

 

Ee With the ariyal of the two new
- Austins....Marion and Helen are
singing “Goodbye Blue _ Jays”
Do you remember?

The annual heartbreaks have started

..You see Monday evening the
Alpha Gamma Delt’s had their sorority
formal....later the Pi Phi’s will take
. the Favored few on the merry-go— round:..,But oh the broken hearts
So . Sitting by the hour waiting for

that phone call....Come, come my
‘man, be strong!

The stock of ‘““Romance and What
_ Have You” has experienced an unhoped
for rise....Every week we are assailed
by indignant students who hurl threats

,.insults....and everything imaginable at us for thethings we print in
this column....But this week we
received a contribution signed “Catty”’
who is answering the rather untactful
letter published through the medium
of the Studley Story......

O. K. CATTY take her away....-.

In answer to’ the poor sucker who
last week endeavored to point out
a “What's the trouble with the local
mee. ladies?”’
aa In speaking of the girls of our
fair city or the fair girls of our city
or what have you....both are far
above the average....this brilliant
critic points out that the ladies he
has met come under the caption of
dumb....Well our only refutation
to that statement is....‘Its really
wa too bad that your manners. , . .social
. standing .... language .... habits....
or whatever your weakness is does

   

The latest Popular Music.
_The latest Victor Records.
All Popular Magazines.
All Musical Instruments.
Radios in best makes.
Lending Library of latest
Fiction.
Cards for every occasion.
p eenctive Novelties for
Souvenirs.

cDonald Music Co.

3 BARRINGTON ST.

   

        
       
     
      
   
      

  
   
  
    
    

      
 

36 permit you to ‘enjoy the company
of the right class of people”’....by
right we mean just the average co-ed
around the campus....

It really is too bad though MR.
FED UP JUNIOR that you are not
receiving proper treatment during the
term of your- confinement at Dalhousie,...But in our humble opinion
you threw away your best chance with
the writing of your rather foolish
article....Coming as you no doubt
do from a large metropolis, ...and
quite justifiably supposing that every
leap year you have had to go into
hibernation in order to avoid the
assaults of anxious females. ...you
are perhaps at a loss when confronted
with the manner in which things are
done in a civilized community......

Again from your writing we wonder
if you do not fall under the category
of the wide and wealthy class of
chisellers who are so prevalent at
Dalhousie....Now of course this is
merely a supposition....but there
is widespread evidence around the
college of certain young swells (in
their own imagination) who endeavor
to ‘split up the really nice romances
around Dalhousie. .

Let’s hope you will profit by your
error and maybe some day you will
be invited in for a saucer of milk....

Signed,
VGAT TY’.

The Barricade

Halifax and its women have received
a blow

From a Fed-up Junior, as you may
know.

He says the town is small and all the
girls are dumb,

That gossip spreads like wild fire—
and then some

In nasty, Sneering and highly insulting

     
        
    
     
       
         
       
    
   
       
     
         
       
         
     
       
   
       
     
       
     
    

 

        
           
   
       
       
       
       
   
       
     
         
     
   
     
 

tones

He claims he’s never asked into our
homes;

He scorns lack of logic in the local
ladies

   
 
    
   
  
  
   
  
 

  
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
 

And puts them all in a class with babies.
As conversationalists he says we rate

zero—
I'd like to meet this man, this fine
Z hero! Se ss

lad,

numerous
And the Halifax girls more humorous!
The lack of college spirit would soon
fade away
If this Fed up Junior could have his

what it takes—

In all three years he has had no breaks

It’s the rule, not th’ exception, to ask
a man in,

He must be a sap if no one asked him.

This barricade which falls, descends on
him alone,

He’s the-type we dread when we hear
the phone.

And if we ever cast our bread upon the
lake,

We don’t want it to return as SPONGE
cake!

ay!
This unfortunate boy cannot have
;

DO YOU KNOW THAT—

The Glee Club made over sixty
dollars for the Red Cross at their
last show?

Students at Dalhousie this
year come from 7 provinces of
Canada, 10 States of United
States, and 8 outside countries?

 

B-9651 MISS MACNEIL

Series of Breck or Hot Oil
Treatments
Shampoo and Finger Wave

Regularly $1.50—4 for $5.00

THE BEAUTY SPOT

197; QUINPOOL ROAD

THOMAS WALLAGE

SONS and DAUGHTERS

 

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“Tf You Want to See Well See
Wallace”

 

       
   
 

in the Munro Room,

     
 
 
   

logical order were.

gan, William T. Cook and Fred G.
Day to run on the ballot for the Presidency of next year’s Student Council.

and Robert D. Marsh to run for the|beimg a trader and not a
post of vice presidency of the new
council. .

tators awaited...
as the announcement of each nomi-| curate indication of the acute danger
nation and
tenseness
everywhere... . Yes,
folks.

minated, one councillor went to open
the door and three or four well known
individuals fell in...

the words “Is there anything to come
before the
Gold jumped to his feet...

A. C. whose expenditure it was.

two students had been caught smoking
in the Gym and five others for using despite all the Acts of Parliament in
street footwear on the
Violent
“Many are called butfeware chosen,”
was the opinion of one of the Councillors... . The physical director had taken
a list of
five or seven to make examples of....
decided to look into the matter more
closely. ...

then took the stand. Barney briefly
outlined the standing of the I[ntercollegiate hockey league and stated
that Dalhousie. was ready to meet
Acadia in the Intercollegiate’ play-|die for one’s country. It
downs.
downs will necessitate a further grant

ae
Poa an : r=
ae ty re ‘ Cs ie .

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Council Meets | Something To
Think About

The request of the British treasury

The events of the day in chrono-|/or authority to expend up to the
limit of 2 billion dollars for the purpose

The election of R. D. Hurst tothe|°! national defence is a disheartening

The councillors met
confinement

in solitary
last Sunday afternoon

post of Freshman Representative for|imdication of the present situation in
the year 1937-38.

Europe. The Britisher is by no means
MackKei-|am alarmist. On the contrary, secure
in the conviction that England will
muddle through, he is inclined to take
a sanguine and unperturbed view as
Moreover,

militarist
he is disinclined to undue expenditure
of the public revenue on unproductive
sources. Therefore, when the Chan
Outside an anxious crowd of -spec- cellor of the Exchequer asks for a 2
_a breathless hush| billion dollar limit it is a fairly ac
The nomination of Ian M.

The nomination of Eric G. Teasdale | to the possibility of war.

election was made....a|in Europe today.

in the air....a tenseness
‘twas sheer drama,

 

The efforts of the diplomats at
Versailles to avenge those killed in
the Great War will probably culminate
in the slaughter of their sons. On
the one hand they fostered the establishment of
and on the other fostered its destruction by their rigid reparation demands
and blunt rebuffs at a great nation’s
national pride. Lloyd George promised
the British electorate he would hang
the Kaizer, Today the Kaizer is
still very much alive and the British
elector, with the prospect of a 2 billion
dollar loan faces financial strangulation.

When the closed meeting had ter
democracy in Germany

. More followed. .

President Lea had hardly uttered
when [. Roy
“Yeah,
i. want: -$22,50°". ..... What ‘fer?’ ..;

For the orchestra and the referee for
the Mount A game Saturday night. ..

Mr. Gold was politely but firmly
told to take his request to the D. A.

meeting”’

The opposition of the Labour Party
in England to a grant to the Duke of

 

 

The next question arose from a Windsor in our opinion is a _ very
letter forwarded from ‘the Senate| dangerous move. The dignity of the
stated that|Crown has suffered a great shock

Gym committee (which

with the abdication of Edward, and
the world, the biological fact remains
that he is the brother of the present
ruler. If his income is cut off (and
reports are that he is hard pressed
financially at the moment) the result
might be a Darryl Zanuck production
with the brother of the King, Emperor,
Defender of the Faith, in the title role
or an ad ‘“‘While at Buckingham Palace
I always ordered that Swineberg’s
Pretzels be served on accasions of
state’’.

Rope ee 2 era

protestations followed....

names and chosen these

Mr. Barnhill of the -D. A. A. C.

It is indeed a wonderful thing to
is more
But participation in the play-|heroic and worthy than dying in bed.
Unfortunately, however, one is, in

of $100.00. ... Passed... either event, equally dead.
Mr. .Murray Rankin, permanent | —————
Sec’y-Treas., then brought in an out
  

line of the financial report... .this
worthy document revealed that the
Student Council of Dalhousie might
be in the red to the extent of some
$20.00 thus far......

A. PUBLICOVER

2 SHOPS
LORD NELSON HOTEL

  
  
  
  
   
 

 

 

and
23 SPRING GARDEN RD.
Father—When I was a young man,
girls knew how to blush. Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies at

Daughter—What was it you used to
23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

do to them, dad?

CAPITOL

Canada’s Most Beautiful Theatre

 
 

 

FOOTWEAR

For

 

TODAY — SAT. MON.
DICK POWELL
MADELEINE CARROLL
in

IRVING BERLIN’S
“ON THE AVENUE”

TUE.*WED. THURS.
Clark
GABLE

RUN”’

the largest assortment
of GOOD SHOES

at the best prices,
TRY

a

Wallace Bros. Ltd.

454 Barrington St.
Halifax, N. S.
B-6687

 

Joan

CRAWFORD
“LOVE re

 

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

 

Photographers to Dalhousie University

SEE OUR PICTORIAL WORK

SPECIAL RATES TO |
FOR GIFTS

STUDENTS

— 24 Hour Finishing Service —

 

18 SPRING GARDEN RD. Phone B 6992

 

em a

   
   
 

 

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —

 

The Green Lantern

————_—_

 

When You Need

 

HAVE YOUR LEATHER GOODS REPAIRED

Established 1876

“CRITICAL MOMENTS:

 

WHEN IT
JUST LACKS
TEN MINUTES
OF YOUR
HEAVY DATE
-AND YOU FIND SOME WORTHY
BROTHER OF THE FRATERNITY
HOUSE TAS PRE-EMPTED THE
SERVICE OF YOUR DRESS TROUSERS
~ CHEER, UP,
MUCH SWEETER

 

  

  

Page Three

“If we toss for the ‘Kitty’ somebody wins a dollar.”

“IF we buy Sweet Caps with it, everybody wins!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

ancet

 

Where Now?

DRUGS

ear CHOCOLATES
REFRESHMENT

WE’RE AFTER, FOUNTAIN
SURE IT’S

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
or any other Drug Store Merchandise
You get better SERVICE and VALUE

at KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

by

KELLY S LTD.

At Reasonable Prices

118 GRANVILLE ST.
Phone B-6964

  

P
—

er

i

 
 
     

‘?

f

/
*

     

= , ;
Nd : ae

KY

LIFE WILL LOOK
ir NOU

 

tod — st ws + ee J

 
 
  
   

5 alee al a. Kendia
Thur., Feb. 25th.
| intermediate—Dal vs. Kine
Thur., Feb. 25th.
by HOCKEY
| intercot —Dal vs. Acadia

. Mon., Feb. eats at
Aeoe

  

  
   

 

Hockey Losses

Dal 4—Sunocos 13

Tuesday, Feb. 16.—Showing marked
superiority in every department of the
game, Blue Sunocos, last year’s City
League champs, ran roughshod over
the Dal Tigers to snow them under
by a one-sided score of 18-4. The
defeat put the Tigers definitely out
of the running for a berth in the
playdowns. The high-flying Sunocos
tore through the Collegians time after
time to pepper Koretsky with a
continual barrage of rubbir. Although
he was beaten thirteen times, Koretsky
played a great game and kicked out
many close in drives to rob the Oilmen
on numerous occasions. The Tigers
defence pair of Johnny Carroll and
Don MacGregor played a great game
scoring three of the four goals, while
Graham was the pick of the forwards.

The first period produced the only

- Hoop Victories

Dal 20—Y. M. C. A. 19

The Tigers clawed themselves out
of a cellar berth in the Senior City
League on Thursday night, by the
narrow margin of a one point win
_ over the Halifax Y. The Association

‘quintet was tougher opposition than
Dal had reckoned for, and by pressing
hard in the first half managed to

work out a respectable lead when
the whistle blew for the intermission.
Starting the second half the two
teams matched basket for basket
~ neither allowing the other to get far
ahead. With two minutes to go the

Tigers were three points down, but
long shots by Crease and Stewart
more than made up for the difference,
and Dal was on top 20-19 as the final
whistle sounded.

wy f f
Vet omg i close hockey of the game. At the
sees : aes 4 ; i
be al: ct PF, Seagrass end of this stanza Sunocos boasted
af = : c € ri : . .
ets, In a League game played at the a 1-0 lead due to a goal by f rors
oy ‘ oe : In the second cante Sunocos put the
Ss ¥ ~ gym on Saturday night the Cubs . a
ee Wissanhed over "St. George's’: Aces |S2™e 09 Ice by outscoring the Dal
‘vita a ies . boys 6-1. Carroll chalked up Dal’s

for the second time this season by
Ry A044 “count. > The general play was marker on a pass from Cohn. In

. : z ¢ , ' + Di wT 3
fairly even throughout and wes not the Rual twenty thinutes or
hte * marked by anything of special interest. found the net on passes from Corston

‘=e x e and Napier and MacGregor batted

jPhe Aces had an edge in the first |‘

eriod owing to their superior shooting |‘ the final two goals. Reg Clancy
ee passing and at half time led was the best of the Oilmen and also
Pett. After the breather the Cubs the best man on the ice with five goals
returned to form with a bang and and three assists.
. four. guick baskets to take the
‘From then until the final few
tes, play seesawed back and forth
“one team ahead and then
on dying ‘minutes of
put on another scoring
cinched them the victory.

Sat., Feb. 13.—Playing on ice covered
with about an inch of water, the Tigers
went down to defeat at the hands of
‘the amazing Wanderers. After being
kicked around all season, the Reds
showed great form in handing the
-Tigers a decisive 3-1 trouncing.

“their. all’,

This week we once
more bring to you
* the writings of one
* who is on the outside looking in........
# Local people are at
* times alarmed at the
lack of college spirit

 

displayed by the
present day tribe of
Dalhousians ........ Mr.
Ace Foley, Nova Scotia's premier
sports commentator, is one of these........
and so we present his view of the

situation... the why’s and wherefore’s
of the lack of college spirit then...

Take 'er away W. J.

They tell me there are more athletes
than sport followers at Dalhousie
these days and that, perhaps, is one
of the main reasons why the City
Hockey League is a bankrupt concern.

Not in several years have Dalhousie
students supported their athletic teams
as they did back in the days when it
was an honor for the boys to sit in
the Dalhousie section and _ blah-blah
“U-Pi-Dee” and sing college songs
until other customers realized that
maybe it was a great thing to be a
college student and an honor to support such a great team, even though
it wasn’t such a great team at that__....

They tell me the only time you
really see a Dalhousie crowd these
days is when the swing bands roar
and there isn’t an idle foot in a car
laiaeel) ce.

This is a very sad state of affairs,
because dancing is said to be only a
harmless pastime, like checkers and
whist, but most of the boys give it
and there isn’t enough
spirit in the tired bones to give a
cheer for the boys who sweat and toil
on the football field, the hockey arena

 

More flavour
—yet milder

‘Bucking

CIGARETTES

 
 
 

@ As you slip into your Tip Top suit or topcoat
—you instinctively feel here is an introduction
to style. Tip Top designers with a true touch of
talent have put valid style trends from here and
abroad into our clothes this year.

Have unrestricted selection from hundreds of
fine British woolens. Your garment will be handcut and tailored to your every personal whim in
style and fit. You'll feel confident in Tip Top
clothes — because you know they’re correct. One
famous price — always.

TIP TOP TAILORS

LIMITED
TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

   

   
  
 

  

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 
    

 
 

PULLIP ppp

540194 "2 oven

   
  
 
   

B74-36

 

SPORT SAGAS

 
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
    
   
  
   
 
    
   
   
   
 
  
  
 
    

and the basketball floor, so that aur
boys who made Dalhousie what it
is today (only it isn’t eny more, or
so they say) can rest easily and secure
in the knowledge that the old spirit
is being carried along by their kid
brothers........

If they only knew

The intercollegiates piled up a
7-3 lead in the provincial intercollegiate

playdowns.......and it wasn’t a lucky
break either___.... Acadia was good, mighty good... but the Tigers led by
fire horse ‘Tiger’ Veniot packed
that latent Tiger spirit and swarmed
all over the Acadians........ The game
as we saw it........ “Farmer” Beer came

into his own....... back on the defence
where he belongs he fired the Axemen
around and also accumulated three
goals which isn’t a bad record for one
evening ........ Bespeckled Don MacRae
was the big gun in the Acadia offense
and to be quite frank he made the
Dalhousie defence look bad on several
occa sions........ “Spearhead”’ Napier and
“Brains” Cohn although not breaking
into the scoring column turned in
excellent exhibitions___... Jim Mont’s
poke checking at centre ice reminded
us of the days of Mickey McGlashen.

 

Athletes and athletic managers of
Dalhousie are in their own opinions
pretty powerful individuals... We at
Dalhousie live in a little world of our

OWN........ we never see our own mistakes. ....... the other team is always
to blame........ if we make a protest.......

we always think we have sufficient
grounds___.._. but local sportsmen........
the men who discuss the situation
daily in newspaper offices and poco!
rooms.......- men who have watched sport
develop through the years don’t ala
agree with out statements and opinions
Seer t Especially during the present year
has this been so_...... First there was
the football protest-...... well you will
say Dalhousie had sufticient grounds.
Yes but there is also to be considered
the principle of the thing... And

now comes another protest in connection with the basketball game
last Thursday night... Do you know

the new name attached to Dalhousie
—THE CRABBING COLLEGE BY
THE SEA,

Quite honestly managers and D. A.
A. C. officials should use more discretion........ Just because we go to
Dalhousie is no reason for thinking
that we can tell people what we think

of them........ and carry offour interests
in the sport life of the City of Halifax
in any high handed mannet........ Beware

 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
 

UNRESTRICTED CHOICE
OF BRITISH WOOLENS

$2425

Tailored to Your Measure

   

   

 

  

     
 
   
 
  

SPORT SCHEDULE

HOCKEY

City League—Dal 1-Wanderers 3
i; Dal 4-Sunocos 13
Intercoll.—Dal 7-Acadia 3

 
 

BASKETBALL

Senior—Dal 20-Wanderers 34
Intermediates—
Dal 40-St. George’s 34

  

 

Mounties | ‘Win |

: =
. Dal 28—Mount A. "32 wk b
= Despite the fact that they flashed

the best brand of ball produced by
them this season, the Tigers could
not overcome a powerful Mt. A.
quintet and lost by a ‘32-28. score.
This is the first home defeat suffered
by Dalhousie at the hands of the
Sackville collegians in several years.
The opening half was featured by
good defensive basketball on the
parts of both teams, that held scoring
for the most part to long shots. At
half-time Dal was nursing a slim one
point lead with the score at 11-10.
The final half was much like
the first with scores up in
turn for both squads. Near the end
the Mounties launched an offensive
that netted them three baskets and
won them the match. The Tigers
worked hard but were held to one
field-goal just before the closing whistle.
Ed Stewart, playing his second Senior
the Dal turned in a
sterling performance by collecting 12
points and was the game’s

very
coming

game on floor,

high scorer.

Dal line-up—lIdeson, Crease 4,
E. Stewart 12, McLeod 5, Cook,
Storey, D. Stewart 4, Goudey 3,
Hubbard, Martin, Shainhouse.

OO

Mt.A. Co-eds Lose

Last Saturday the girls did something the boys seem unable to do—
win an outstanding game. Our Tigerettes took the Mt. A. fair ones over
the hurdles to the tune of 20-14.
In the first half the Sackville sextet
had much the better of the play,
marking up a 18-8 lead. In the
second half, however, our girls staged
a typical Dal come-back to walk
off the floor with a convincing victory.

The game was fast and produced
good ball, particularly the
second half. A large crowd (of boys)
viewed the match and expressed themselves as well-satisfied. The outstanding player on the floor was diminutive
Margaret Hall of Dal, who all by her
little self scored 16 points, more than
her opponents’ total score. Dal’s defence of Viv Douglas, Florence Armstrong and Marg Woolaver, presented
a stone-wall which Mount A. found
difticult to penetrate. Congratulations
girls,—keep up the good work,

during

o——~—

The Gazette is a great invention,
The college gets all the fame;
The printer gets all the money
And the staff gets all the blame.
—Apologies to Si/houette,

 

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages
including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice

15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B 6821

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL,

Nova Scotia Technical College
OFFERS
ENGINEERING COURSES

MECHANICAL AND MINING.
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual

xperience.

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year—Twenty-five Scholarships
of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar or Advice. F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

-Victors By 7-3

The Dal Tigers gave their rooters
a. handsome reward on Wednesday
night by sending the Axemen to the
showers in the first game of the round
by a four goal margin.

Taking advantage of the breaks
the fast skating, hard hitting Dalhousians swamped Acadia’s entry in
the Maritime Intercollegiate playdowns last night by a score of 7-3.
The Dal boys showed definite superiority and backed up by the great
work of their stellar goalie, Korky
Koretsky, they settled down, after
a somewhat shaky first canto, to
decisively outplay the Valley lads.
As a result of last night’s win, the
Tigers will go to Acadia on Friday
sporting a four goal lead in the two
game total score series.

Every man on the home team played
smart hockey from start to finish,
but Ken Beer, the hard hitting defenceemerged the real hero of the
Besides playing a whale of a
game on the rearguard, Beer also led
the team offensively, scoring three
markers with his cross fire shot thru
the enemy defence. He was closely
followed by Jim Mont, whose playmaking was a feature of the game.

The Acadians had a slight edge in
the initial period, but poor shooting
and great work by Koretsky kept
them out of the scoring , column.
Russ Bryant scored the only marker
of this period to give Dal the lead.

The second period was half over
before Jack Marshall made the red
light flicker on a pass from Mont.
A few seconds later Hamilton scored
Acadia’s first goal. Ken Beer got
that back however on the next play
on one of his sparkling rushes. The
period ended 3-1 for Del.

In the last period the Tigers went
on a real scoring spree, Beer netted
two more tallies and Jim Graham
and Mont each added one to swell
the total.

man,
contest,

Acadia replied with goals
by Shaw and Smith,

The Acadia team showed much
promise and should be hard to beat
on their home ice. In the larger
Halifax Forum they appeared to be

somewhat lost, but they can be depended upon to put up a bruising battle
against the Tigers in the final game
of the series Friday night at Acadia.

 

Engineers Revel

Last Saturday evening the Engineering Society held its annual banquet
at the Nova Scotian Hotel. Practically the whole of the society turned
out for this function when the guests
were Dr. F. H. Sexton, Professor
G. V. Douglas, Professor W. P. Copp
and Professor H. R. Theakston.

Arrangements for this occasion were

in the hands of the committee for

the vear which consists of G. D.
Stanfield, E. P. Stephenson, H. C
Rosier, J. P. Dumaresq and W, F.

Napier. Toastmaster for the occasion
was G. D. Stanfield president of the
society.
I
Old Lady—Are you sure this is a

good ship?
Captain—Madame,
maiden voyage.

this is her

    
    

      
     
   
     
