   
     

 
  
  

'*

   
  

i
= .
a, es
a ea
. a4
.
4 Ms

      
 
 
 
 

ne 1

Se
+. =F

a

ale]

   

cre
. i
a
i 2
ne
a ee
a ct
ry :
;
4”

Radio Show [Dal Governor | Fiery Session Of Council

rh we must present to the public, programmes which represent the various

‘poorest representative. The commit
 

_ Big Success

Dalhousie’s first radio programme
went over the ether on Tuesday evening. From all indications it met
with general approval. The presenta
tion although light and musical was

also informative.

It opened with a college melody followed by a brief introduction, emphasizing the trend of student thinking
and how the weekly programmes were
designed to represent their different
interests. Then a_ student octette
sang several old time melodies. The
feature of the evening—a discussion
on the “crisis in Spain’? commenced
with a question on foreign intervention. This interview lasted eight
minutes. The mixed chorus closed
the programme with two Dalhousie
songs.

_ The object of this radio programme
is to advance the university and not
to give certain students the delight of
broadcasting. In order to publicize,

   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
    
 

tivities of

the college—i. e., Arts
a, athletics, science, law,
ry and debating.
hero type of stu
not show un
:
* =

@

     
    

teemen have selected those most fitted
for the task.

 

Sodales Active

It’s here! The Frosh-Soph debate
for the Bennett Shield! Next Tuesday at 12 noon, Room 8 of the Arts
Bldg will be the scene of a revelation
debate on the somewhat worn but still
problematic subject: Canada should
withdraw from the British Empire!
With gusto Douglas McKean and partner Maureen Allen, freshmen representatives will advocate isolationism.
The Imperialists for the occasion are
Sophomore representatives George
Piercey and Joyce Sircom. If you
like to fight, come, put on the gloves,
you may use them!

Sodales this evening is being represented in a public debate at King’s
College. Henry Hicks, Rhodes Scholar, has been selected to form team with
Ted DeWolf of King’s and opposes two
formidable speakers from Mount Allison. The distinguished visitors have
to a certain extent insisted that they
can irrefutab.y prove that in its
best political interest Canada should
at present isolate itself, completely
from Europe. Let’s go up to the
Haliburton room of King’s College tonight at 8 o’clock and see if they make
good their boast!

Spe

Another Frosh had got his first taste
of organized cheering. So when he
went for to say his prayers he was
heard to say firmly and distinctly:
“God Bless Ma! God bless Pa! God
bless me, and rah, rah, rah!”

Stop Press!
Council Meeting Postponed ,

until

Thursday noon, Jan. 21st.

«

          
     
    
     
       
 
 

 

 

HON. R. B. BENNETT

Dalhousie Students will have a
chance this week of seeing, meeting,
hearing (or something) one of the university’s most distinguished alumni,
the Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett, former

prime minister of Canada, who is landing in Halifax after a tour of the world
on his return to Ottawa for the opening of Parliament.

If Mr. Bennett sticks to tradition, he
will visit the law school before he leaves
Halifax for, on every visit to the city
in the past, he has made a point of
going through the Forrest Building.

On one of Forrest’s decrepit desks
he is said to have carved his initials
deeply, as most students have done and
are doing (apparently law students
don’t expect to get their caution deposits back anyway.)

Then there is the library, © still
shouldering the same books from which
the present leader of the opposition
in the Canadian Parliament studied
his law, read his cases and acted as
librarian for several years. On the
occasion of his last visit to Halifax, Mr.
Bennett addressed a group of students
in the Jaw library.

In other respects, the university
has changed greatly since he was a student. All the old professors have
gone. Studley has grown up and the
centre of undergraduate activity shifted.

But despite the changes, Mr. Bennett
has shown he maintains interest in the
college by the sea. Asa governor and
a graduate he has supported its welfare
and development. His Alma Mater
welcomes him home with cordiality
and respect.

 

Society Meets

On Saturday last, the newly formed
Arts and Science society held an executive meeting to discuss matters
pertinent to the formation of this society into one of the strongest on the
campus. Elwyn Hughes, the new
president was in the chair.

Among other proposals which were
passed to be brought before the society
it was decided that graduate students
in Arts and Science should be eligible
for membership in the society, and that
executive opposed double representation of the Commerce and Engineer
students on the Students’ Council.
Eric Teasdale was appointed to approach the Sodales executive on the

matter of the Bennett Shield debates.

During the next week the executive
will appoint managers for Interfaculty

hockey and basketball.

Basketball
Dal vs. Wand.

Thursday
8 P. M.

 

ooo

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 15th, 1987

As Many Topics Debated

With such noted personalities
along the sidelines as Edward Barnhill,
Douglas Crease and Ian MacKeigan of
the. Dalhousie Gazette, Roy Gold and

Henry Reardon of the Year Book
editorial staff and Elwyn Hughes,

President of the Arts and Science Society the Council of Students held their
first meeting for the year 1937 in the
Munro Room Sunday afternoon.

The business dealt with was as follows:

Mr. Gold briefly reviewed what the
year book staff proposed to do and set
forth one of the most unusual advertising schemes ever attempted at
Dalhousie. It is readily accepted that
the Councillors perhaps do not represent the best brains in the University but they certainly could not understand the scheme. Mr. Gold is to run
a popularity contest in connection with
year book and just how that is to be
done will be explained to our readers
in the near future.

Then came the real purpose of the
meeting. The discussion of the new
constitution which it is hoped will be
adopted either in whole or in part
during the present term. It was decided to put the proposed constitution in the hands of the student body
immediately and to hoid a student
union meeting on January 19th for the
purpose of discussing the changes
made.

Mr. Barnhill speaking on behalf
of the D. A. A. C. complained of the
lack of space devoted to sport in the
Dalhousie Gazette. Mr. Hurst in
answer to this complaint stated that
Mr. Barnhill had beaten him to the
point and that he had planned to present the question under the topic,
‘What in hell are we to do with the
Dalhousie Gazette.” It appears that
early in the term the Council made a
contract with Mr. G. K. Daley granting him in addition to a stipulated
salary a commission on all extra advertising. Mr. Daley has succeeded
so well in his advertising campaign
that there is a lack of space and naturally something had to suffer.

The Council readily agreed that the
fault lies not through any fault of the
editorial board of the Gazette but

rather in the agreement they themselves had made with G. K. Daley
whereby that official in his own best
interests was carrying out the details
of his contract.

‘Dalhousie on the Air’ was the next
topic up for discussion. The Council
went on record as supporting the new
endeavor providing that it in no way
conflicted with existing activities.

That Dalhousie should have skating
night was the assertion of President
Gordon Lea.
an institution the student
not being granted the full use of our
assets unless some move is made in
this direction.

In the next and last item up for discussion we shall give vou a play by
description.

Mr. Barnhill: ‘‘I want to present
the matter of Dalhousie’s entrance in
Intercollegiate hockey. We have
plenty of material and need approximately $75.00.

Mr. Lea ‘‘What happens if you
win the league.”’

Mr. Barnhill:
necessitate a

“That of course will
further expenditure.”

Mr. Hurst: “If the expenditure is
as moderate as Mr. Barnhill states
it to be the Council of students should
support the idea. It will mean an
opening into intercollegiate sport which
I believe is a progressive step. Dalhousie is not an aristocratic institution
yet nevertheless the place for her athletes seems naturally to be in intercollegiate sport.

Secondly centres around the growing interest in hockey which should be
encouraged and which will mean active
participation for at least ten more
students.”

Mr. Barton: ‘But the D. A. A. C.
doesn’t seem to know how much money
it requires, how much material it has,
or what chances it has in the league.”’

Mr. Hurst: “Granted that the D.

 

With the Dal Band now |
body is|

 

EAR BOOK PROPOSES AMBITIOUS CAMPAIGN

 

Aids Research

 

E. W. ROGERS, B. A., M. Sc.

graduate of 1933, assist ant to
Prof. R. A. MacKay.

 

Chinese Expert

The Department of Political Science
was exceptionally fortunate last Tuesday, in having as a guest speaker Dr.
Chen Hanseng of Nanking and New
York, a widely known authority on
Asiatic politics.

Dr. Hanseng dealt at length with
the university problem in his native
land. University facilities in China
are a direct copy of the American
system. Large numbers of Chinese
students have received their education
in American and European universities.
The return of these students to China
was instrumental in the development
of the present system in that country.

It must be kept in mind that university activities in Chine are closely
associated with politics and such na
A. A, C, does not know what it is do-| tional issues as the Japanese campaign

ing yet nevertheless its efforts are
pointed in the right direction and
should be encouraged.”

of aggression. Dr. Hanseng pointed
out that at the present time there is
great unrest among the students at the

Moved and seconded to grant the| ., called “patient attitude of the Nateam an appropriation of fifty dollars}, tient attitude of the Nationalist

for expenditure on _ intercollegiate

hockey.

 

Popularity Contest Coupon

Value—2 votes.

COUPON

Most Popular Senior Co-Ed..... ..

Most Likely Graduate to Succeed. ..

Best-Dressed Co-Ed. ..........

Prettiest Co-Ed. ........

Most Handsome Senior. ........

Best Sport in the Class. ...

Best Dalhousie Athlete. ..

Biggest Politician. .......

Class Gigolo. ........

Sin oe «6 ee

reels i Cree os ss

government.

Turning to the development of the
public school system, Dr. Hanseng
explained that this is being greatly retarded by the influence of the great
land owners and the “powers that be.”
A vast educational system, involving
the common peasant would, in their
eyes, be detrimental to their present
position.

Dr. Hanseng next dealt with the
organization of the Chinese governmental system. He asked the students
to keep in mind that China is a republic in name only. The power is concentrated in the hands of a few, among
those being Hi Ki Shek, a notorious
war lord, so that representation by
national vote is far from being a national institution.

Nanking is in particular difficulty.
Her domestic troubles are further complicated by constant struggle against
the communistic provinces of Ningsiu,
and Sheni. The Red menace is at
present a vital force in Chinese politics.

An interesting highlight of the address was the discussion of the future
policy of China in respect to a Japanese invasion. Dr. Hanseng asked for
the various opinions of the assembled
students, and a short discussion took
place.

In conclusion, Dr. Hanseng warned
the students to beware of the authenticity of articles in American magazines.

 

No, 12

  

+

Contest Is
New Feature

A new deal in Year Books at Dalhousie is promised by the Editor-inChief, I. Roy Gold for the 1987 edition
of Pharos. Much progress has already
been made towards this end and present
indications point to a bigger and finer
Chronicle of Student Activities for the
year 1936-1937.

This year’s ‘Pharos’ will make its
appearance before April Ist, its contents closely guarded for sometime to
come. One thing is certain however,
—it will be novel by all standards, and
a real asset to the many students who
have signified their intention of securing a copy.

An excellent staff has been appointed
to collaborate with the Editor and the
Business Manager, Henry C. Reardon
and comprise the following:

Associate Editors.

Sid Lilinfeld J. C. Arnell
Arts and Science Editor—E. O. Hughes
Engineering Editor—Keith Hodson. ;
Commerce Editor—R. D. Hurst.
Editor for Medicine—Fraser Nicholson
Editor for Dentistry—C. Egan.
Editor for Law—Anne Hirsch.
Photographic Editor—C. W. Murphy.
Asst. Photozraphic Editor—Melvin

MacQuade.
Society Editor—R. P. Hiseler.
Athletic Editor—Tobias Beeber.
Social Editor—Margaret Drummie.

To facilitate the publication of
this new “Year Book’’ complete cooperation is expected from the entire
Student Body. Photographs of graduates should be completed by Feb. Ist.

To add to the Campus interest in
the Year Book, the editors have decided upon a poll in the Arts School
along lines similar to those held annually at many of the larger universities. By the popular vote of the
student body through the medium of
this paper, students may vote for their
favorites. The Coupon attached will
appear weekly in the columns of the
Gazette as will also the progress of the
poll. These coupons are to be filled
duly signed by the sender and may be,
deposited at the Gazette office.

Prizes To Be Won

The prizes for which undergraduate
students may compete during the present term at Dalhousie University are:

William Inglis Morse History pri
which is to be awarded for the best
essay on an historical subject based on
work done in the Nova Scotia Archives:
and the William Inglish Morse English
Essay prize which is to be awarded
for the best essay on a subject to be
chosen by the donor.

The Overseas League Essay prize.
This is to be awarded for the best essay
on some question, historical or critical
relating to the place of the Overseas
Dominions in the British Commonwealth.

The Maritime Province Association
Scholarship which is offered by the
Maritime Province Association of Toronto for an essay on one of a selected
list of subjects.

W. H. Dennis English prizes. These
consist of two prizes for English prose
compositions and two prizes for poetry.

 

Obituary

The Gazette on behalf of the

student body expresses its
deepest sympathy to Irene
Pentz on her recent bereavement.

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
  

- AI r iversary
_ Necessary Changes

For several years there has been a
growing feeling on the Campus that
the constitution of the Council of
Students has outlived its usefulness,
and is no longer sufficient to satisfy
the needs of present day student problems and ideas.

Granted that the system of government, as provided for in the Constitution when last revised, suited the pur"pose at that time, it is now felt that
this system has become obsolete and
that changes are necessary. Prob
 

lems in student governments have

arisen for which no provisions were
made i in the old constitution. Finally,
there has hitherto been no clear statement of the jurisdictien and the relations to one another, of the various
student body organizations.

Acting on the wishes of the students
present at a student meeting held last
spring, the Council of Students appointed a Committee to look into the
matter and to revise the constitution
of the Student Council. This has been
done; the proposed changes in the Constitution have been passed by the Student Council and will be presented to
the Student Body on Tuesday, January 19th. Copies have been placed
on all the Bulletin Boards and is herewith published in this Gazette. Every
student is urged to read it over carefully and come to the meetings prepared
to voice any questions, criticisms, suggestions or opinions.

Before advocating these changes,
the Committee inquired very carefully
into every phase of each individual
problem, that arose in an attempt to
provide the best possible solution. In
this we have been materially aided by

advice from Students, Alumni and

Faculty. Much help was also derived
fi groom a study of the Constitutions of
_ other Canadian Universities. The final
solution i in each case is the result of a
careful consideration of each problem,
in, the e opinion of the Committee,
_advante RE solution. .

n of leges of th
them | as shail be designated by the Council
of Students from time to time and shall

- woul | have Pe greater op‘portunity to voice an opinicn regarding his organizations.
_ We have attempted to weave together many of the loose ends in the
old constitution, into a compact and
os _ workable Council of Students Constia. tution, that will be able to take care of
‘any matter regarding Student organizations which may arise.
The Committee wishes to thank all

those who in any way assisted ts in
; )

this work. Especially we do wish to
thank Dr. Bell, Dr. Johnstone, Prof.
Curtis and Murray Rankine for the
very valuable assistance they have
given us.
Gordon Lea
Roland Hurst
Henry Ross
Smith MclIvor
Fred Barton
Committee.

Council Forum
Tuesday Jan. 19,
12 noon.

Chemistry Theatre.

Subject: The Revised Consti
tution.

(Ed. Note: Article 5 Duties Officers
and Article 7 Finances remain the same
_and are omitted.)

CONSTITUTION OF THE
STUDENT BODY OF DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

se >. "Article 1— Name.

- Sec. 1. This organization shall be
called “The Student Body of Dal- housie University.”

© e OCe 2.
‘ministrative powers of the student body
shall be vested in an Executive and
Administrative Council hereinafter

i known as The Council of Students.
es, _ Problems and matters affecting the

_ student body as a whole shall be under
_ ithe: immediate jurisdiction of the
~ Council of Students and problemsand

 

Sees |

President

The legislative and ad
—
ee

ge = MN Sy igh oa ort

a? Ming

a ae
Pee ia

aa ae _—

i.

es ees |

i ia yt. [a
~~ 
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Plays Part

 

GORDON LEA

of the Council of

Students 1936-37

 

These organizatiens shall be the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club, the
Dalhousie Glee Club, Sodales Debating Society, the Dalhousie Gazette,
Delta Gamma, and the Dalhousie
Band.

Article 2— Membership.

Sec. 1. The membership of the
Student Body shall consist of those
registered students in the University
who have paid the annual fee incumbent on those taking more than one
class, and those students taking only
one class who wish to participate in

any activity sponsored by The Stu
dent Body, subject to the University

regulatilns as specified from time to

time in the University calendar.
Sec. 2. The President of the Uni
versity, Members of the various Fa
culties and Graduates shall be honor
‘ary members of The Student Body.
| See. 5.

-The aforementioned honorary members shall enjoy such privie Student Body’s activity

not have the right to vote.

Sec. 4. Membership in the Student
Body shall be recognized by the issuance of a Council of Students ticket
on payment of the required fee. This
ticket shall entitle the owner to all
privileges of General Student activity,
subject to their suspension for any
special occasion as may be designated
by the Council of Students from time
to time. Each ticket shall contain
the name of the recipient when issued
and shall be non-transferable. Penalty
for transference of the ticket to some
other persons shall be the cancellation
of the ticket and all its privileges for
the person whose name the ticket bears.

Article 3—Officers of Student Body
and Council of the Students.

Sec. 1. The officers of the Student
Body shall be President, First VicePresident, Second Vice-President, and
Secretary-Treasurer.

Sec. 2. The afcrementioned officers
of the Student Body shall be likewise
President, First Vice-President, Second
Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer
of the Students’ Council.

Sec. 3. The aforementioned officers
and three other members of the Students’ Council appointed by the Council
at their first meeting after election,
shall form the Executive Committee
of the Students’ Council.

Article 4—Powers and Membership
of the Students’ Council.

Sec. 1. The Council of Students
shall consist of the President and VicePresident of the Student Body and 13
representatives elected from the students registered in the various departments of the University and shall be
determined on a basis of representation
as outlined in Section 2 of Article 4,

Sec. 2. The departments of the
‘University shall for the purpose of
Sec. 1 of this Article be as follows:
Arts and Science, from which 56 representatives shall be elected; Medicine from which 2 _ representatives

Sec. 4. There shall be appointed
each year by the newly elected Council
of Students one member at large who
shall not represent any Faculty or
Department upon the Council of Students.

Sec. 5. The Council of Students’
Fund, collected by the University
Business Office as provided for in
Article 7, Section 1, shall be placed
under the direct control of the Council
of Students, who shall be responsible
for the allotment of the monies of this
Fund for the various student activities which are within the jurisdiction
of the Council. From this fund the
Council of Students may make provisional grants for purposes of which
the Council of Students approves.
The Council of Students shall reserve
the right to withdraw any of these
grants, if in the olinion of the Council
of Students, steps are being taken to
spend the monies so granted for purposes for which they were not granted
or if in the opinion cf the Council of
Students steps are being taken to spend
the monies so granted in support of an
activity or activities which the Council
of Students does not consider to be in
the best interests of the Student Body
as a whole, or to be detrimental to the
name of Dalhousie.

Sec. 6. The Council of Students
shall be the only recognized medium
between the student body and the
University authorities and also between the student body and the general
public.

Sec. 7. The Students’ Council shall
have jurisdiction to deal with students
who conduct themselves in an unbecoming manner on or beyond the
premises of the University during the
session and may, if it deems expedient,
recommend to the Senate a_ specific
punishment for any student found
guilty by them of conducting himself
or herself in an unbecoming manner.

Sec. 7 (b). The Students Council
may bring before the Senate any case
which is in the opinion of the Council
worthy of reconsideration.

Sec. 8. No Student Society, Club
or Organization shall be constituted
in the University without the sanction
of the Council, and any changes or revisions of any constitution now in existence, must also be sanctioned by
the Council.

Sec. 9. Each recognized club, society or organization of the University
under the jurisdiction of the Council
may be required, through its secretary,
to present to the Council, on demand,
a written report of the years’ work and
financial condition of such club, society
or organization, and shall, if required
by the Council. make a full report on
all or any matters cr matter appertaining to such club, society, or organization.

Sec. 16. The Council shall consider
recommendations, resolutions, and motions passed at meetings of the Student
Body.

Sec. 11. The Council, if requested
to explain any of its action by a majority of a meeting of the Student Body
must do so, and if after such meeting,
the Council is presented by a document
bearing the bone fide signatures of
55% of the Student Body requesting
the Council to resign, it must do so and
a new election shall be held within two
weeks after presentation of such document, during which time the old Council shall hold’ office. At this election
the members of the outgoing Council
are eligible for re-election.

Article 6—Elections.

Sec. 1. The President of the Student Body and Council of Students
shall be elected by a vote of the
Student Body. at the general elections as provided for in Article 6,
Sec. 11. Nominations of candidates for the position of President
of the Student Body and Students’
Council shall be made by the Council of Students. There shall be at
least two nominees for the office
of President of the Student Body
and the Council of Students. In
making the nominations, the
Council of the Students shall give
preference to those with experience
in conducting Student Body organizations in this or in any other
college or to those who have shown
exceptional ability in some other

ll te ee ct
|
+ " ,
mk i F
iy a
ry ni
Py f
5 373
. i
Bs = ‘
. rs :
a

Pioneer

DR. HUGH BELL

Sponsor of the first Students’
Council who played an important
part in the revision of the constitution.

Sec. 2. The First Vice-President
of the Student Body and Council of
Students shall be elected by a Student Body vote at the general elections as provided for in Article 6,
Sec. 11. Nominations of candidate
for the position of First Vice-President of the Student Body and
Council of Students shall be made
by the Council of Students. There
shall be at least two nominees for
the office of First Vice-President
of the Student Body and Council
of Students.

In making these nominations,
the Council of Students shall give
preference to those with experience in conducting student body
organizations of this or any other
college or to those who have shown
exceptional ability in some other
field of endeavour.

The first Vice-President may be
nominated from any department,
shall be voted upon by the entire
body and shall not represent any
faculty or department upon the
Council.

Sec. 3. The position of Second
Vice-President of the Student Body
and the Council of Students shall
be filled by the newly elected members of the Council and _ shall

 

CONSTITUTION AFTER QUARTER OF CENTURY

 

The list of voters and the societies in which they are to vote shall
be posted by the Council of Students two weeks in advance of the
date of the election and any changes to be made in these voters’ lists
to make them accord with the provisions of this section shall be made
through a representative of the
Council of Students appointed
for that purpose.

(f) For the purpose of election,
members of the Student Body
who are taking Post Graduate
courses in Arts and Science, shall
be considered as members of the
Senior Class in Arts and Science
and shall be entitled to a vote
upon the representatives for the
Senior Class.

Members of the Student Body
taking Post-Graduate courses in
Commerce and in_ Engineering,
shall be entitled to vote upon the
representatives for the Commerce
Society and the Engineering Society respectively.

Sec. 6. The manner of distribution of representatives for Arts
and Science proper shall be as follows: There shall be two representatives for the Senior class,
one of these representatives being
a female. There shall be two representatives for the Junior class
one of these representatives being
a female. There shall be one re
presentative for the Sophomore
class.
Sec. 7. The Freshman repre
sentative shall be chosen by the
outgoing Council. at its last meeting before the Students’ Council
representatives election. This student must be one who has previously served on the Students Council, and shall be a student on the
Studley Campus during his term
of office.

Sec. 8. Within one week of the
date of the Student Body elections,
the newly elected Council of Students shall meet and shall! elect a
**member at large,’’ to the Council
of Students. This student may be
elected from any department of the
University, shall be voted upon
by the members of the newly
elected Council of Students’ and
shall not represent any faculty or
department upon the Council of

Students.

Sec. 9. Candidates for election

be elected from amongst the female /as Council of Students’ representa
representatives upon the Council.
She shal! continue to represent the |
class or society which she was originally chosen to represent upon
the Council of Students.

Sec. 4. Two representatives upon the Council of Students from
the Faculty of Medicine, one representative from the Faculty of
Law and one representative from
the Faculty of Dentistry shall be
elected respectively by the members of the Students’ Medical Society, the Law Students Society
and the Dental Society respectively.

Sec. 5. (a) The Faculty of Art
and Science shall, for the purpose
of election, be divided into three
separate and distinct electorates,
*‘Arts and Science,’’ ‘‘Commerce,’’
and “Engineering.’’ Only those
taking courses leading to a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science
degree shall be entitled to represent or to vote for representatives
for Arts and Science.

(b) Only those taking courses
leading to a Bachelor of Commerce
degree shall be entitled to represent or to vote upon representatives
for Commerce.

(c) Only those taking courses
leading to an Engineering Diploma
shall be entitled to represent or to
vote upon representatives for Engineering.

(d) Any student taking affiliated
courses must declare his or her intentions of voting in one or other
society with the Secretary in which
he or she intends to vote, before
the 15th day of February immediately preceding the general election at which he intends to vote.

(e) It shall be the duty of the
Secretary of the Arts and Science
Society, the Secretary of the Commerce Society and the Secretary

tives must be such as will be regist
LL LL

January, 15th., 1937

 
 

 

ered in that Faculty during th’
year in which they are to repre.
sent said Faculty on the Council
of Students

Sec. 10. Nominations of candidates to the Council of Students
shall be made by the separate societies aforementioned one full
week before election day and must
be as great in numbers as one and
one-half the number of representatives to be elected.

Sec. 11. The elections shall be
held the first Tuesday in March.
The students of each separate
Faculty shall vote by ballot for the
representative of their own separate Faculty in a: common polling
room to be determined by the executive of the Council and announced by the Secretary of the
Council on bulletin board in prominent places in the University one
weel before election.

Sec. 12. The Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body and
Council of Students shall be an
officer who shall not be a member
of the Council and who shall be
appointed by the Council.

Article 8—Committees.

Sec. 1. The Committees of the
Council of Students shall be:

(a) The executive committee;

(b) The Students’ gymnasium com
mittee and schedule committee;
(c) The gate receipts committee;
(d) The Malcolm Honor Award

Committee:

(Continued on page 5)

CAPITOL

TODA Y-SAT-MON

MARLENE DIETRICH
CHARLES BOYER
=) Ne

“THE GARDEN
OF ALLAH”

IN TECHNICOLOR

TUES—WED—THURS.

“THAT GIRL
FROM PARIS”

with
LILY PONS
GENE RAYMOND and
JACK OAKIE

 

       
     
     
   
       
       

 

‘CRITICAL MOM . NTS”

WHEN ITS
JUST TEN
MINUTES
TO LECTURE

Time- /

of
—AND YOU'VE

   

FORGOTTEN TO

COMPLETE YOUR CLASS LECTURE
THEME BECAUSE YOU THOUGHT
YOU WOULD'NT NEED IT UNTIL
TO-MORROW — YOU'LL THINK
UP A LIKELY YARN TO SPRING
IF YOU — —

ON THE PROF.

of the Engineering Society to present to the Secretary of The Council of Students not later than Februrary 15th of each year a complete list of the voters and their
respective societies.

field of endeavour.

The President may be nominated
from any department, shall be
voted by the entire Student Body
and shall not represent any faculty
or department upon the Council.

= s matters which relate to one phase of
Be student activity shall be under the
jurisdiction of the respective organizations and bodies which by their con- |
be stitution have the function of dealing
3
i ei) with such problems and matters.

shall be elected; and Law, Dentistry,
Engineering and Commerce from which
1 representative each shall be elected.
Sec. 3. There shall be appointed
each year by the outgoing Council
one Freshman representative.

  

 

7
ie? PY, é
~ ie i iY
a Tyee
ig :

i to Sen = aN iz= <a
ll

 
vs es dusky Little Nell pleading in vain

< - tunately, the real life melodrama did

eee “did notarrive in the nick of time, and
Bde Ay: Little | Nell was left to the “fate more

ae control over the really nice

2. villains have carried their villainy

tsa Senorita Spain really love each
ae other but being tempestuous and

bed
ef 
hae re

es (Balearic Islands and Spanish Morocco)

a oe 3h. (
1
zs

oy
ary
are.
cage
a é

=.
a

a.
coll

eee

   
 
   
 
    
  

schemes of the archvillains.

5

OMixcined led by the hero (i. e. the

oR with a swift punch in the eye.

~ while Stalin who has again become

scheme about to fail plans to send-his
gangsters in to kill Senorita Spain.
Bes Enter Anthony Eden and the brave

be 2

 

scious one ehesby eae
ors and newspaper editorial

resent international affairs in

ner of the old fashioned melo
ma. Hitler and Mussolini are the
ing villains on the international

Stalin is the badman who has

ed good. Anthony Eden is the

dsome hero who dashes about
ope frustrating the nefarious
sc During
_ the Ethiopian affair Ethiopia was a

the whip-cracking mustachioUnfor
with |

twirling villain Mussolini.

ot. have ‘the usual conclusion. The

British Navy led by Anthony Eden)

horrible than death” (newspaper edi
_torials still speak of the “rape of

Ethiopia”),
By adroit trickery and the use of
gangster methods the villains have

but very stupid German and Italian
people. Not satisfied with this the

abroad. Here is reel No. 2. Senor

passionate are inclined to have little
domestic tiffs, Senorita Spain throws
the dishes at Senor Spain who retaliates
Hitler

and Mussolini see here a marvelous
_ opportunity to steal the family jewels

and so lends Senor Spain a revolver

a bad man lends Senorita Spain a
hatchet. Senor Spain gets badly hack-edand villain Hitler seeing his nefarious

rines. Next reel will be shown on
| pene page of your Halifax

"Smith Maclvor
B-2852

Time Payment ‘Terms.to
Students

Tired Out After
Vacation?
Let Us Lug Your
Shoes Back and Forth

For Better Repair
Work Just Phone

Capitol Shoe
Repair

B8566
44 SACKVILLE ST.

SKATES SHARPENED
We Call and Deliver

When You Need

 

 

q| that,
|| spend some of this “library fee’ and}
1| additional tuition in remedying these
Cr defects. which are seriously detrimental |
'|to the students’ health? =

; — + 7
a oot F F a ” "
: fn
E Hat ss z lt | a a at * hn) tee
7 ae, eee _—e oa <<
5 pee ae ; de : ie + -~ eo ees! ee oa
Cte ee ee.
«ae Pr

tes a

| The Mouthpiece

Law mae aise Complains.

Dear Editor.;

Law Students at Dalhousie idea
that they are being discriminated
against in the question of tuition fees.
The seventy-eight Law students this
year are paying $21,060 into, the
University clear of Student Council
and Caution Deposits, while (taking
the 1934-35 figures) the Law School
only costs about $17,200 to run. On
the other hand the President has told
us that it costs the University about
$120 more per student in Arts and
Science than the student pays in and
a much greater sum for every Medical
student. Why should Law students
more than pay their own way while
the University assists the other faculties?

This year all students had to pay
an extra $5.00 “library fee’’ but on
top of that the Law fees were raised
an additional $25.00, while the fees
in other faculties remained the same.
Why the discrimination? No additional expenses as far as we can see
have been incurred in the costs of
operation.

Owing to the nature of the work in
law it is essentiai that the students
spend a large part of their time in the
Law Library which is_ wretchedly
lighted and ventilated. Law students
have no other choice than to work
there since the reading of cases cannot be done at home. Many days
it is too cold to open the windows and
so after an hour or so in the Library
it is not surprising that one has a
headache. Studley students may complain about the MacDonald Library
but there is no comparison. Weare
told that we cannot have the ventilation and lighting improved. ‘But surely
something must be possible and _ it
wouldn’t be asking too much to have
even a few hundred dollars spent in
reconstructing the windows so that
they will open from the top and some
extra radiators installed so that there
could be both sufficient heat and
fresh air, In each classroom there
is only one window which will open
jand it is often too cold to open even
Why doesn’t. the University

When a student begins a particular

|course it is only fair that he should

know at the beginning what it will
cost him for the full term and it is
not just to increase his fees after he
has begun his course because many
students have to budget very carefully and a $30.00 increase makes
quite a difference. If fees must be
raised they should only be’ raised

not for those who are part way through.

Yours sincerely.

“Nemo dat quod non habet.’’

———__ —-Q —— --—Some men are born great, some
men achieve greatness, and some

men just grate upon you.
Det ei
“Professors tricked by confidence
men.’’—Plucked highbrows.

GIVE US A RING

HALIFAX TAXI

COMFORT COURTESY
CONVENIENCE

B 7376 B 9644

 

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
or any other Drug Store Merchandise
You get better SERVICE and VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

 

 

| Halifax Ladies’ College

& Conservatory of Music

University Students may register for
Voice Training—either Singing or Public Speaking
| Appreciation _—popular course—Beethoven’s music.

- Instrumental —Violin, Piano, Organ, one or two lessons a week.
rooms available.

| Next 5 year —Hieme Peansrnice. The new four year course.

‘Phone. B-6524

+ t
ey ;
Be es CEA Od PT ea ge
a a ‘ = Rte,
| PRR oe Ri ts aye te
: ee My g RS
eon ha abt >. Mens ass >
i es | a. wae hy rg
+ dice . o a ‘ ll) fa le et.
. Re

against those beginning a course and’

tand efficient manner.

 

4 4 he Sei Poe ede ti ea Mee iat te ae i i i a Y

ae : - ia i eo aa Ai a ’ tk 2

on ie Sal 4 ee _ nae — a RG _* ms aie r

y = ee ae "ts ny = abi oe 7 Pcge i > eae = — j
ae et Page Sr 1) I th a a a a ; : J ye Pee eee si

c F t
i
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Great Dalhousians Of The Past

 

REVEREND JAMES ROSS, D. D.

Principal of Dalhousie College, 1863-1883

Time and space forbid that I should
do more than sketch in briefest outline
the life and labors abundant of Dalhousie’s first Principal after its reorganization. He was born at West
River, now Durham, Pictou County,
on July 28th, 1811, the ninth son in
a family of fifteen of Reverend Duncan
Ross, one of the pioneer Ministers
sent out from Scotland to Nova Scotia.
He was completing his course, begun
in Pictou Academy under Dr. McCulloch, at Edinburgh University in 1834
when his father died and the Congregation called the son to succeed
him. He bore the arduous duties of
a country Minister for thirteen years,
filling in his spare time editing and
publishing a little paper called ‘The
Presbyterian Banner’, and running a
large farm which even yet is one of
the show places on the West River.
During that time the enemies within
the gate had been able to prevent
Dr. McCulloch teaching any theoiogical subjects in Pictou Academy,
and in 18388 he removed to Halifax
to be Principal of Dalhousie during
the short period, 1838-1848, it functioned as a college. With his going,
Pictou Academy fell from its high
position as the leading educational
institution in the Province to be
nothing more than a good _ school.
The West River Seminary, with Reverend James Ross as Principal, was
at once called into existence to do
the work of educating and training
young men for the ministry of the
Presbyterian Church that the Academy
had laid down. For four years he
occupied the dual positions of Minister
to the West River Congregation and
Principal of the Seminary. Twenty
years later, that is to say in 1858, for
reasons that are not now apparent
the Seminary was removed to Truro.
Two years after that its theological
side was transferred to Halifax to
unite with the Free Church College
whose headquarters were in Gerrish
Street Hall. Principal Ross remained
at Truro where for three years longer
instruction was given in the classics,
mathematics and philosophy. In 1863
he was called to be the Principal of
the revived Dalhousie and there and
then began his great work. Very
unwillingly he resigned his Principalship in 1883 and on March 15th, 1886
after a week's illness ad majores abiit.

But what manner of man was this
our first Principal? These bare details
of his birth, life, and death do not
tell us. Perhaps some reminiscences
of an old boy may.

Once some students of whom I was
ene were indulging in that favorite
pastime of students—see any number
of the Dalhousie Gazette—grouching.
One’s complaint was against Principal
Ross, or ‘Jimmie’
in my time. ‘Hold on,’’ interjected
another, “Jimmie can do what no
other man on the Faculty or in Nova
Scotia for that matter can do; hecan
run a whole College.” And it was
true. At the West River Seminary
he had taught all the subjects of the
limited Arts curriculum of those days
(it was he who prepared George M. Grant
for his spectacular career at Glasgow
University) and gave instruction in
Theology as well. His Latin was
good and, unlike Shakespeare’s, not
small. I] have heard him make. addresses in Latin that seemed good
to me and the only pun I ever remember
his making was in barbarous Latin.
I am tempted to,repeat it, but dare
not; it had a full Rabelaisian flavor
and [ understand the Gazetie still
circulates in Shirreff Hall. At Dalhousie he first professed, as Doctor
Lippincott, B. A. '67, in a late number
of The Dalhousie Review has told us,
Mental Philosophy. Then on _ the
death of Professor Thomas McCulloch,
son of the famous Dector, he took
on Natural Philosophy, Physics we
would probably call it. For some
years his courses were in Optics and
Astronomy. When I sat under him

Jin the Session of '81-’82 his subjects

were Ethics and Political Economy.
What a man! Hislearning was multifarious; he could have taken any branch
included in the Faculties of Arts and
Theology and taught it in a respectable
His intellect
was of that peculiar+clearness that
whatever he knew, he knew accurately
and distinctly. By my time he was
tired, even worn out, and his lectures

as we called him

eee EEE nD nnn NSS ENEIIEEINEEnnemeeeemeeeen eee eed

showed it; and yet twenty years after
when [I read Henry George’s ‘Free
Trade and Prctection”, [ recalled with
pleasure and some pride that Jimmie
had stated the arguments for and
against Free Trade as clearly and
convincingly as George had done
and without his exaggerations.

He once lectured to us as part of
his course in Political Economy on
the division of labor. By way of
illustration he told us there were nine
different processes in the making of
a common brass pin,and proceeded
without reference to his manuscript
to make and describe them. The
class listened in amazement at such
an exhibition of memory, but I doubt
if any one of them thought it worth
while to clutter up his notes with
more than the bald statement that
in the making of a pin there were nine
processes. Judge of our when
the examination paper put in
our we found we were
required to name and describe these
processes. It was a dirty trick, but
I am glad to say we were all able to
make the grade without answering
this question. Other classes might
not have done so well, but in our
vocabulary there was no such word
as fail. If anyone doubts this statement, let him ask Judge Mellish.

horror
was

hands and

I owe much to Principal Ross, and
cheerfully acknowledge my debt. So
would every one of the old boys who
had the advantage of taking classes
from him. He himself was a master of
clear, vigorous and accurate English
(my father, Reverend George Patterson, D. D., who was no great admirer
of the Principal, although he trusted
him to baptize his oldest son, maintained that in his style he was a mere
imitator of Dr. McCulloch, even
going so far as to say when the Principal used a quotation, let us say
from Shakespeare, that he took it not
from the original but from some
writing of Dr. McCulloch's) and would
not tolerate any grammatical error,
any loose use of words, any doubtful
constructions. We were obliged to
write two essays for him. These
essays he took one by one and discussed them before the class. He
was most meticulous in his criticism,
not indeed of such arguments as we
had presented, but of the language in
which the argument was clothed.
Woe to the one who made a mistake
in his grammar or who ended a sentence
with a preposition, or with a number
of words of one syllable. One of his
pet aversions [ remember was the use
of ‘none’ in the plural, and to write ef
‘ones’ was, he claimed, the negation
of all sense. We had had in our first
year a full course in what was called
Rhetoric, but had no instruction whatever in the written use of our mother
tongue. We had compositions
to write in Latin and some in Greek,
but none in English until we reached
our third year, when we wrote one for
Professor Lyall and never heard of
it after we handed it in, though Professor Lyall told me he allowed us
something for it in marking our examination papers, (which probably accounts for his once giving a student
110 points out of.a possible 100).
But in my fourth year as I have said
we had to write two essays for Jimmie
and I, for one, learned much from his
criticism not only of my own efforts
but of those of my classmates.

many

Tacitus wrote of his father-in-law
that he was felix oportunitate mortis.
That might well be said of Principal
Ross, Never before or since was
Dalhousie so prosperous, or expanding
so rapidly; the Munro Bursaries were
attracting in large numbers the best
students of the Maritimes; four of the
original staff were still at work and
with them the newcomers were maintaining that fine tradition of teaching
power for which Dalhousie has always
been renowned and for which in his
time above all others Principal Ross
was responsible.

Judge G. G. Patterson.
Gna mp emies

A government can do everything
with bayonets except sit on them.—
Talleyrand.

— =

Necessity is the mother of instal
ments.

—— + * : a

— Tp pial <i dae > ie
be el =
eg vey ¥ y Piel le. oe Ee = a
ws! FY a cd f «
ic a ie ee
ae eT meee ct 7

Page Three

“What do you usually play for?”
“Fun—and my host’s Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL

CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —{'ancet

 

DURING JANUARY WE OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS IN ALL LEATHER GOODS.

—CALL EARLY AND SAVE—

AELLY'S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

Established 1876

122 Years Ago

(Ed. Note; The following letter
was addressed by Samuel Cunard of
shipping fame to Dr. Thos. McCulloch,
first president of Dalhousie, and casts
interesting light on student life of 122
years ago. The English and puncutation
is quoted as in the original letter.)

Thomas McCulloch Esq.
Pictou
Halifax 7 Sept

 

1815
Dear Sir,

I had the pleasure to address you a
few days ago by Mr. Clark. I have
again taken the liberty to send you
another Pupil to whom I must beg
your attention the Masters under
whose care he has been heretofore have
paid but little attention to his improvement and what he learnt at School he
has forgot within the last Year at Sea
he will require to commence at the
first Rudiments. I wish him taught
what I requested you to teach the
other Boys—and I hope within one
Year (the time I propose leaving him
with you) that he will have made considerable improvement, particularly as
he is now of an age to perceive the
want of education.

If you think it best, I have no objection to Henry & Thomas learning
Latin, I think I stated to you in my
last, the only reason I have for not requesting you to teach them Latin—
namely that they are intended for
business and that a plain English
Education answers the purpose. You
will say that I have very contracted
ideas—I must allow it.

[ shall feel much obliged if you will
have the kindness to supply the little
wants of the Boys from time to time,
will as the

they require Winter approaches worsted Socks, & Strong
Shoes which can be had at Pictou

better than here any other things that
you may conceive they stand in need
of and that will add to their comfort
please to order for them and your
draft on me at sight for the amount of
them shall be duly honored.

I have given John Fifteen Pounds,
to pay his half years board in advance,
with him as with the others you will
please point out the way in which
you wish the payments to be made
and your wishes shall be complied
with.

Henry & Thomas are young
have time to remain at School
may therefore teach them what
please.

If I can be of any service to you here
you will please command me,

I remain,
Dear Sir
Yours respectfully

(Sgd) SAM CUNARD

and
you
you

 

DO YOU KNOW THAT:

Studley campus contains 40
acres and was purchased in
1910 for the sum of $50,000?

Approximately 5,000 degrees
have been conferred by Dalhousie since 1863?

 

 

Phone B-6962

Rhodes Record

In the eighteen years of the awarding of Rhodes Scholarships since the
Great War, Dalhousie has achieved
the enviable record of sending nineteen
men to Oxford. Of these nineteen
Dalhousians, thirteen have represented
the province of Nova Scotia, three
have represented Newfoundland, one
has been the All Canada Choice, and
two have been chosen for the provinces
of New Brunswick and Prince Edward
Island.

Rhodes Scholarships, which were
established according to the will of
Cecil Rhodes, are awarded in all the
British dominions and in the United
States. The ideal of their orginization
was the founding of a closer understanding among all the different English-speaking nations of the world.
Few people realize that hundreds of
students at Oxford each year are
beneficiaries of the Rhodes endowment.

Dalhousie is proud of those of her
who have received this great
honour. Much is expected of the
man who is finally selected to represent
Nova Scotia and those chosen from
Dalhousie have proved their worth
both at Oxford and in later life.

sons

The following is a complete list
of the Rhodes Scholars for Nova
Scotia and from Dalhousie since the
year 1920:

1920—J. W. Godfrey, P. E. I.—Dalhousie,

1920—W. G. Ernst, N. S., Kings and
Dalhousie,

1921—H. V. D. Laing, N.S., Dalhousie.

1922—-John Dunlop, N. S., Dalhousie.

1928—M. B. Emeneau, N. S., Dalhousie.

1924—-Henry Borden, N. $., Dalhousie.

1925—Thomas Robinson, N. S., Acadia.

1926—K. B. Palmer, N. B., Dalhousi

1926—W. J. Maynes, N. S., St. F. X.

1927—A. R. Jewitt, N. S., Dalhousie.

1928—J,. MacLennan, All Canada
Choice, Dalhousie.

1928—R. C. C. Henson, N., S., Acadia.

   

1929—W. B. Ross, N. S., Dalhousie.

1930 F. Musgrave, N. S., Dalhousie.

1931—F. C. Underhay, N. S., Dalhousie.

1982—A. G. Cooper, N. S., Dalhousie.

1983—D. P. Wallace, N. S., Dalhousie.
1934—-Sidney Wheelock, N. S., Acadia,
19384—-L. C. Hawco, B. A., Nfid.,

Dalhousie.

1935—C. B. Ferguson, N. S., Dalhousie.

1935—H. B. Mayo, Nfld., Dalhousie.

1986—A. C. Findlay, B. A., N. S.,
Kings and Dalhousie.

1987—H. D. Hicks, B. A., N. S.,
Dalhousie.

1937—J. D. Ashley, Nfld., Dalhousie,
OQ

“Big husbands are generally meek.”’
—Cave-in men.

pene Feoceeieetnly

“We consume 6,000,000,000 eggs a
year.”’—Not bad.

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

|D. A. A. C. Meets

Without any of the pomp and ceremony peculiar to the Students, Council
of this University and the Provincial
legislature of this province the Management Committee of the D. A. A. C.
with Edward Barnhill in the chair
met at 10.30 Sunday morning. The
meeting has been set for 10 A. M. but
due to tardiness on the part of three
or four of the members and the absence of three more the Dictator refused to start the ball rolling until
10.30.

    

  

- ak chee occasions in “the past ofbit ficers of the Alumni Association and
members of the university staff have
been approached by business men who
were looking for some way to reach
students of the University with a view
_ to employing them for part-time work
- during the year, for jobs during the
‘summer months, or for permanent pos7 itions, In the past the ‘men approached have been sometimes at a loss to
_ know how to find qualified students who
_ want the work. No central registration bureau has existed through which
peer. employers might contact . students de
'

      
     
   
   
         
       
         
    

ae of work. | field meet.

This need was felt by the Gazette
rk in the year, and schemes in ex- istence in other universities were
_ studied. Most of these other schemes
were found to be too complicated for

ae _ immediate use here, both because it
es would take some time to work up the
7 ee here, and because the number
of jobs available are limited in a city
as small as Halifax. At the same time
gt x Re something had to be done.

The Alumni Association in co-operation with the University authoriif mM, tes has come to our aid, and has taken
-—s-' the:=« first step. A filing system has
‘been established in the Alumni office
Te the Gymnasium under the care of
Mrs. MacLean, where the names of
aust students requiring employment can
be registered together with a statement of their previous experiences and
their preferences. It is hoped that
this is but the first step in a development which should be of much service.

- To make this employment bureau a
success both the students and _profesi sors and others to whom come persons
looking: for students to employ must
a, give it their fullest co-operation. Stu| dents wanting work should register
2 ae? there and employers wanting students
os should be directed to the bureau.
2 do not expect | to. see. miraculous

BS mere |
at t the b bureau will nal ab- |

ment. ae :
ae ys | r hat the ae

       

avoidably postponed through inclement weather. This alibi sounded
rather weak to your correspondent
but who is to question the judgment
of the D. A. A, C?

       
       
   
      

Physical
gave notice that it would be possible

        
 

 

    
       
 

gymnasium. Decided to have Mr.
Stirling conduct the affair.

2. Report of Manager of Hockey,
Mr. Sheehan. The manager reported

    
         
     
         
       
 

through the Xmas_ holiday period.
Harvey Conn first string centre is at
present in the hospital in Montreal
while Jack Buckley, the little master,
is enjoying his annual trip to Bermuda.

In his report as to expenses Mr.
Sheehan presented a bill of three dollars for beer. Mr. Barnhill requested
that this be changed to read “‘pop”’ lest
press correspondents unacquainted
with the ways of the world might be
led astray.

3. The third item of business arose
through the resignation of R. D. Hurst
in the capacity of Assistant Manager
of Basketball. Mr. Hurst’s resignation was accepted with pleasure. Applications to fill the position were called for immediately and the post will
be filled next week.

> i Dr. Bell Iihieed the opinion
A. C. should back every

    
           
       
     
     
     
     
       
         
       
       
       
  

 
       

    
 
 

  
    
         
      
 

   
    
  
 
 
  
  
  

ts and — nce society in regard to]
letics. ‘among the. ‘students on the

ee Manager Roy Gold representing

“the interests of the Tiger basketeers
reported that Byron Hatfield who
entered college this year has signified
his intentions of performing with the
Y team. The management committee
deemed such an action impossible.

     

iS pte ‘the alumni for Ranting a service
‘S, wh ich will be of great value. We must
: emphasize again, however, that the
success of this service depends upon
the co-operation of all concerned.
- Students should not delay to take advantage of the opportunity presented.
DS enieter at the Employment Bureau
fy pers ‘want a job.

   

  
     

      
 

Mr. Gold also requested permission
to take the Tigers to Mourt A. on
Saturday January 16th. Granted on
the proviso that he is able to take
advantage of the excursion rates.

6. The final business for the day
was the appointment of Blair Purvis
as Manager of Dalhousie’s Swimming
team.

    
   
        
 

Pt

   
   

  

————-9——_—_—_—
        
 

Love In Slow
Motion

si Fs meet, they talk, they part, they
phone,

p sBhey sigh, they weep, they wait, they
a ‘groan,

~They meet, they smile, they part, they
be" bie sigh,

_ They write, they phone, they moan,
they cry.

 
    

 

      
 

Hold Lecture

On Thursday night a most interesting
lecture was given in the Chemistry by
Dr. J. Held, formerly of the Kaiser
Friederich Museum of Berlin. Dr.
Held had as his subject ‘‘Rembrandt,”
and his lecture was copiously illustrated by slides. Coming as it did just

hates

       
 
   

 
 
 
     
   

  
       
     
   
 

  
      

~ They meet, they talk, they part, they
write,

, a They meet, they frown, they scold,
~~ ae they fight,

es _ They part, they sigh, they moan, they
es _ weep,

ts, oy meet, they run, they jump,
ae. leap.

     

  

See! ae
—

if

         
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   

    
  
   
        
    
    
  
  
    
    
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 

the life of Rembrandt the lecture was
indeed timely. The lecture was open
to the public free of charge.

Dr. Held lectures under the auspices
of the National Gallery of Canada and
was brought to this city by the local
branch of the Maritime Art Association.

they

They part, they meet, they flirt,
oe.” te tease,

at ra They part, they meet, they hug,
. ai $3

R P they
———
they

Bere College Marriages—To Whom It
g eat they stand, they talk, they as Conesen:
; a ates talk, they walk, they fly, they| ‘‘You have to be somewhat of an
ae: | flit. improvement on an angel to make a

va

go of marriage while you're still in
college,’ declares a University of
California psychology professor.

* ie

they smile, they frown, they laugh,

they shout,

ir They weep, they sing, thew: groan, they

= = on pout,

Bae hope, they trust, they fear, they
doubt,

a | And ad what ‘the aitch is it all about?

 

But That marriage and education
can’t be successfully combined, however, is emphatically denied by the
powers-that-be at the University of
Iowa after a survey of more than 300

a eae couples living on the campus.
oe aeans of men and women agree that
that’s the big lsiery?” “in almost every case the scholastic

a sie et a textbook, and pretes of students married while

p = yf
4, ss ’ ’ =i As . : %
:

The first item of business arose
from the minutes and related to the
matter of the interfaculty track and
This affair which was to
have been run off last fall and un
Director W. E. Stirling

 
 

successfully to stage the affair in the

that the Tigers had lost two stars

ously.

after the recent movie production on|

Sa

 

Disagreement with Understudy.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

We didn’t write our column last
week, but The Studley Story appeared
nevertheless. Congratulations and
thanks to our pinch-hitter who did a
good job. At the same time we want
to renounce all responsibility for his
statements which did not altogether
coincide with our own. As for our
own opinions—the Pan-Hellenic dance
idea seems impractical at the moment
(as a matter of fact it can be found at

the Nova Scotian any Saturday night
and the Commerce-Engineers scrap

seems to be petering out, with each
faculty attending, practically en masse,
the dance of the other. As to the words
of encouragement to the Arts & Science
Society, we approve the spirit and the
conception of the idea, but would suggest that it entirely depends on the
executive whether a success is made
of it or not. With the knowledge that
the students are solidly behind them,
they will have no excuse for failure.

The Intellectual Freshman

He crept on the campus with a nervous smirk a short time ago. now his
smile is self-assured and he bestows it
upon all around him. Just yesterday
his ignorance was hidden by his silence;
now it is displayed by his constant conversation—he’s willing to discuss anything and everything, usually from a
destructive view-point. His _ blatant
self-advertisement is only matched by
his actual insignificance. He is an extremist—he never takes the happy
medium, rather preferring to take the
unconventional side of the argument
and defend it dogmatically and vigorHe has the most unlikeable
‘of characteristics, but at the same time
for some unknown reason he usually
turns out to be a nice chap. May he
continue to possess that of which he
is unaware.

Superlative in Femininity

So the Year Book has decided to
conduct a contest to find the most
popular girl at Dalhousie. We want
to congratulate them on their courage,
and offer them our sympathies. They
asked for it and in all probability they’re
going to get it. If the female registration at Dal is around two hundred
then there are going to be one hundred
and ninety-nine discontented and raging women around the campus when
the results come out. Still, since
they’ve gone part of the way, they
might as well go the whole hog (or is
that inappropriate?). Why not find
out who is the most beautiful girl,
the prettiest, the best dancer, the most
prominent, the best dressed, the most
collegiate, the best athlete, the best—
ahem—we'll leave that to your imagination. Anyhow its an idea!

Looking Around

Sodales had a turn-out of one for the
trials for the team to be sent against
Mt. A.—plain lack of enthusiasm, not
the executive fault as it was well ad
vertised—the Trio did a beautiful job |

with ‘Best of My Heart” at the Commerce dance—real talent there and
they get better every time they sing—
what are the Glee Club’s plans for the
coming season if any——radio hour is
the finest idea that’s been used around
Dal for a long time—let’s have it kept
interesting and varied—appointment
of a swimming team manager at D. A.
A. C. meeting—what and why is the
swimming team——and who do the
wrestling team compete against——
ditto the fencing team—Student Forum on the 19th—well, well, well, and
where’s Fisher——-how about a little

The} hot water in showers once in a while,

just as a special treat——or maybe we'll
have to win the basketball and boxing
titles first—according to the managers
we're a cinch for both—according to
"| the managers,

  

DALHOUSIE GAZELT: E

    
   

aaa appa ae sane eae pee

Sidelights

1. Like all other things business is
very slow for the dirt column in the
first of the year—the New Year's Resolutions must be keeping the young
folk well within the limited restrictions of the straight and narrow.

2. Action at the Millionaires Mardi
Gras—incidentally a grand party—was
so well concealed by the lack of light
to observe any indiscretions, We did
notice, however, one brilliant Rhodes
Scholar playing drop-kick with a pop
bottle. Tsk! Tsk!

3. Dr. Bill Scott has a new patient
at the Clinic and has received offers
of assistance from the combined
dental school. We are puzzled as to
whether it is the lady’s pulchritude or
a scientific interest in her seventeen
cavities, that warrants such attention. Characteristically, Drs. Scott and
Miller seem to be carrying their professional interests into their love lives
—otherwise, why are they haunting
the V. G. Nurses Home these days?

4. We were very sorry to hear that
that ace of good-fellows, Mase Johnston, left Dalhousie to enter a firm in
Toronto. The social life of the Campus has lost one of its brightest gleaming stars and we all feel the loss sincerely. May the best of luck be yours,
Mase.

5. Do you remember that pretty
little girl who played the part of Cinderella inthe Freshman Show? Her
mother assures us that she is just
sweet sixteen, and Geo. Murphy swears
he had her out on a date three years

ago. Good old Murph, he_ believes
in that fine philosophy of get ‘em
young, treat ’em rough, and tell ’em
nothing.

6. Sodales is again clicking on all
Eight, ‘‘Frenchie’’ Landreville called
debating finals for Monday night and
the Munro room was mobbed with one
candidate. But this isn’t worrying
our fair Leo, since his rosy thoughts
are far from Dalhousie and its problems. Y’ see strictly on the QT. he
pledged himself to the Benedicts during the holidays.

4%. Why does Kay Foster hide
every time the phone or the door-bell

tings? The Nelsons are coming hur
rah, hurrah. Haddie, ought you to
frighten the poor damsel so?

 

=

More flavour
— yet milder

Buckingham

CIGARETTES

 

 

 

 

Book Review

A Grand Place

I was talking to a Varsity man the other| Let’s Be Normal, by Frits Kunkel,
day M.D.

And during the conversation 1
struck by the way

He spoke of his old Aima Mater;

And it occurred to me much later

That if we praised our very own Dal
was
New York; $3.00.

If you are not interested in understanding human character and personality and thus learning how to direct

Ives Washburn;

 

 

housie |its development don’t waste time
Like that, instead of finding all things reading this book. But if you are
lousie concerned about your own develop
Which go on at the college,
We could give others knowledge

ment or that of others, if you want
a sound psychological basis for understanding human behaviour this is the
book for you.

Dr. Kunkel, Germany's leading Adlerian psychologist, is director of the
various child guidance clinics in Germany as well as of the newly organized
institutions for giving psychological
advice both under the German government. In this book he does not put
forward a simple ‘“‘cure-all’’, but recognizing the limits of science when dealing
with life, explains how people’s actions
can be understood, in so far as they
can be understood at all. He interprets people's behaviour in terms of
their relative egocentricity and objec
 

Of what a really grand place Dalhousie
is!

If we never let even a tiny hiss

Of criticism about college affairs

Be heard by any but our own ears,

It would be a very good thing.
So now let’s all begin to sing
Old Dalhousie’s

In high sounding phrases;

praises,

Let’s ali give ourselves a big pat on the
back

And feel quite snooty because of the
fact

That we go to the college by the sea,

Our own Dalhousie University. tivity. At first a child is uncon: sciously objective, but early in life
he is forced into egocentricity by his

contact with adults who are in some
measure egocentric. Hereafter in
everything he does he tries, consciously or unconsciously, to protect
ego till the suffering incurred by this
policy forces him through the great
clarification process when egocentricity is largely replaced by objectivity.
Since we must all go through egocentricity in order to come out of the
unconscious clarity of childhood and
attain the conscious clarity of the
mature individual, Dr. Kunkel explains how to make this course as
short and fruitful as possible. It is
only in so far as one is clarified that
one realizes the meaning of life or
knows what it is to really live.

New Definitions

 

Another one of these dictionaries_...
Glass: The kind of house which, when
people live in it, they shouldn’t throw
stones from........ Texts: What we suffer |
from when we have to pay 3 percent
of it on everything we buy........ Dean:
Racket, noise........ Botany: Except, else;
as in the expression “you can fool
some of the people some of the time
botany body who thinks fine arts is
still a pipe is. wrong’’_...... Physics:
Bergman's men have fine
Senior: What a man is when he is in
Spain... Drama: An old lady with
a small bonnet and a lace shawl........
Fees: the effect of pouring ginger ale
into

his

ones

Let's Be Normal is a book to bé read

 

       
    
 
  

the glass...._Greek: A  flowing| 344 - reread. By all means _ inhale
stream where couples can canoe........ a few pages and experience their tonic
Hygiene: Exclamation of welcome to seek.
Jean_.....: Latin: Talents we all have! :
which remain dormant........ Auto ban; (Note.—There is a copy of Let's

One which travels in a truck and|Be Normal on the S. C. M. shelf in the
plays before and after the mayor | Library).
delivers his election talk... Roman:

Moving, not staying in one place long. L. B. McH.

 

 

A.
=

SO a YitA

     
 

NSE * COL sire

ORR,
"Sian "4He0 ove
2

—_—

Dalhousie University
Store

For Ring, Lab. and
Exercise Books
All with Crested

Covers
DAL STATIONERY

Souvenir Post Cards

LUNCH 20 cents
Dine With Us
Today

AxyS2*mocsan
FN= ZONA - 'U

 

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages
including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B 6821

 

   
  
    
   
 
   
   
 

 

BIRKS-
May we suggest that

—_——_——.

DRUGS

Christmas Cheques be
CHOCOLATES

converted into some
thing lasting — a ring,
cigarette case, or perhaps

FOUNTAIN

a watch, from Birks.

 

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

BOUTILIER’S OYSTER

BAR

Oysters Served on the Half-Shell
or Cocktails
Open from 8s A.M. to 6 P.M. everyday

BOUTILIERS Ltd.

30 Bedford Row

 
       
      

B-6351

    
. “The Oldest College Paper in America.’’

=

GAZETTE STAFF.

Editors. 7 1.
J. D. CREASE, B.A.
Ph, B-5737

facKEIGAN, M.A.

Associates.
| Edward Arab, B.A.
P. S. Macnutt
Kaye Sircom
Elwyn O. Hughes

rd S. MacLatchy, B.A.
Sa aia Pearson |

Sports Editor.

ARCHIE B. MacKENZIE
Ph. B-3824
Associates.

7 A. Landreville, B.A,
Roy Gold, B.Sc.
Jack Reynolds

Earle Fraser, B.A.
Arthur Merkel
Peggy Merkel

. Assistant Business Manager.

R. L. ARMSTRONG B.A.
- Phone B-5700

_ Business Manager.
)RDON, K. DALEY B. Com,
Ph. B-5700
neck . Proof Editor
CHARLES A. ROBERTS

THE REVISED CONSTITUTION

It is very fitting indeed that the Council of Students should
‘ pat to the student body on this its twenty-fifth anniversary a
constitution. ° Truly a momentous occasion and a fitting
orial. Dalhousie has come a long way since the Council’s
first _inception in 1912 and changing conditions have pushed the
constitution that has been ours for a goodly number of years far
cae o the background. More and more conflicts were arising as the
1 constitution could not adjust itself to the new Dalhousie.
The new constitution remedies many defects as well as introducing
| striking changes of which the most notable is the method

othe |, Presceat and Vice: Presidents of the Council.

a tke outgoing council to run for

equir
i:

| Council of Students’ constitution comes.
"| just’ 25% years after ‘the first one was

manner { President. -Thel
tea nm | rom | the women Counci!

| he as she? the eee mals give the student body

: nstitution that will be ab'e to cope with any situation that may
arise in the Da'housie as we know it today and more particu'arly
. that the student body wil! be pleased in being accorded the chance
to elect its own President and Vice-President.

-?
ee

| To those who labored so unceasingly to bring about the completed job and especially to President Gordon Lea the Gazette
expresses its sincerest thanks and on behalf of the student body says
- -“Dalhousie thanks you for a job well done.”

—

YOU AND WAR
(From The Sheaf)

The average man on the street has accepted the inevitability

f war. Scanning his newspaper daily, he reads countless notices

f increased activity among armament manufacturers, of parades

oe armed forces, and of fear in international circles. This ac
tance of inevitability is the hardest nut for those working
the interests of peace to crack.

Without the approval of the ‘‘man on the street’’ it would be
difficult for any nation to wage war. If a sufficient number of
citizens in any nation would refuse to fight, armies would dis
ei ppear rapidly. As long as preparation for war and international
en ‘tanglements are accepted by the average citizen in a docile
E nner, we will have war.

_ Democracy is essentially government by the majority of the
ae he suggested failure of democracy finds its roots notso
ch in the pressure applied from the top, but in the indifference
lack of education at the bottom. Even a dictatorship, powerthot th it might be, could not stand in the face of an aroused

a ie ified puPtic opinion.

_ There is little use speaking again of the futility of war, of the
ho , and of the disastrous consequences which another war
woul fities to civilization. These have been thrust down people’s

ts for years. They are accepted even by those who cannot

brewing ‘the stuff of which wars are made. Frightening
se pictures may be, they have not been horrible enough to
e the = on the street”’.

acemakers still have a long road to go but their speed is

gusly hampered by this “inevitability” complex. Peace

‘ments will have to learn to appeal to the masses as strongly
ally as can national prejudices. If they cannot appeal
yence they must appeal to emotions. The job can be
an awakened and powerful minority, people who are
ough to insist that war is not inevitable.

nes , the “man on ‘Bs street” will do the fighting.
man from the streets of other countries. And

ements of which eee

"Introducing

To You--
INTRODUCING HENRY ROSS.

Henry sometimes known as “S. W.”’
came to us from The Halifax Academy
with a brilliant scholastic and athletic
record. He had the distinction of
being a member of the relay team which
set a Dominion record.

Small but mighty he distinguished
himself in inter-faculty basketball and
track. Henry has also been a valuable member of the senior football
team for the past few years, his dashing play on the line did much to
bring football laurels to Dalhousie this
year.

Executive ability is also Henry’s.
Treasurer of his class, in Arts, former
vice-president of D. A. A. C., this year
president of Ist year Medicine and
member of the Council of Students for
Class '37.

His interest in Medicine is only surpassed by the interest he shows in
Vernon St. “34” is Henry’s lucky
number.

Council History
| Shows Progress

‘7

The latest revision of Dalhousie’s

established to create a better under
standing among the students of various |

faculties and a_ better college spirit
as a whole.

Since that time, student life has
changed greatly and so has the council
itself. Some of the most important
changes have been an increase in fees
from $7.00 to $10; a decrease in representation on the council from 28
to 15 and affiliation with King’s.
One of the most important changes in
the new set-up makes the offices of
President and vice-president elective
by the student body.

The students of today may find it
hard to imagine the conditions that
prevailed in the college in 1912 when
Dr. A. Stanley MacKenzie first became president and the first students
council was formed.

There was a much more intense feelling between classes and a far grater
loyalty to the various faculties. For
instance, a shower of tomatoes, rotten
eggs and other missiles often followed
or accompanied a glee club show.
Dances, by the way, were not allowed
after the shows, and the janitor always
turned the Munroe Room lights off
when the shows were over. Hotel
dances were forbidden.

In 1912, establishment of a students’
council was a controversial subject.
The newest faculties of medicine and
dentistry did not want to be ldérded
over by the more established departments, Law students paid more attention to their books and themselves
than to the rest of the university and
the Arts and Science faculty was wrapped up in never-ending class feuds.

However, the council was finally
agreed to in essentially the same form
astoday. The first elections were held
in June of 1912 and the successful
candidates took office that fall.

In recent years the students’ government body has been handicapped seriously by decreased funds which even
the increased fees paid by students
have not made up. [n the 20’s,
thousands of dollars were received annually as the university’s share in receipts from the City Hockey League
and football netted as much as $500
a game,

Among the student sponsers of the
Dalhousie Student Council were Dr.
Hugh Bell, J. Douglas Vair, R. J.

Over the torn and mangled corpse will be that of | Zwicker, Dr. James Gass, and John

Angus MacMillan.

_DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Constitution
(Continued from page 2)

(e) The Alumni Relations Committee; ~

The Advisory Comnuittee;

Such other committees as the
Council of Students from
time to time may see fit to
create.

Sec. 2. It shall be the duty of the
Executive Committee to consider all
budgets before presentation to the
Council for consideration, and to present a report at the Council meeting
when said budget is under discussion.

Sec. 3. (a) The Students’ Gymnasium and Schedule Committee.
This Committee shall consist of one
member of the Council of Students,
appointed by the Council of Students
who shall act as Chairman and Secretary of this Committee, the President
of Sodales Debating Society, the President of Delta Gamma, the President
of the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic
Society, the President of the Dalhousie
Glee Club and one member at large

by the Council of Students.

Sec. 5. (b) This Committee shall
allot the time during which the Gymnasium may be used by the various
Student organizttions, to those organizations in such way as it may see fit.

(c) (i) This Committee shall have
power to enforce all rules and regulations specified by the University authorities in respect to the Gymnasium
and to impose any fine or penalty for
violation of the said rules and regulations; .

(ii) This Committee shall have
the power of closing the Gymnasium
to student use should such closing be
advantageous to the Student Body
asa whole;

(iii) This Committee shall be free
to consult the University authorities
regarding improvements in general organization of the Gymnasium.

(d) One member of this Committee,
appointed by this Committee, shall be

(f)
(g)

| required to acquaint himself or herself.

with all forthcoming students events,
and shall keep a record of them, in an
endeavour to avoid conflicts between
various student functions.

Sec. 4. The gate receipts’ Committee shall consist of two members
of the Council of Students who shall
be responsible for the collection of the
proceeds from public activities under
the auspices of the Students Council.
Such proceeds shall be turned over
immediately to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Council of Students.

Sec. 5. The Malcolm Honor Award
Committee shall consist of five members—two of which shall be members of
the Faculty of the University, and
three of which shall be from the student body, not necessarily members
of the Council of Students. The
student members must have had previous experience in one or more forms of
student body activity and must not be
graduating. It shall be the duty of
this Committee to select those who
shall receive the Malcolm Honor
Award. This committee shall be appointed at the November meeting of
the Council of Students.

Sec. 6. Alumni Relations Committee. One member of the Council
shall constitute the Alumni Relations
Committee, whose duty it shall be to
act as an official intermediary between
the student body and the Alumni on
any matters that may arise.

Sec. 7. Advisory Committee.
There shall be an advisory Committee
to the Council of Students consisting
of four members appointed as follows:
Two members of the Alumni to be appointed by the Alumni, and two members of the Faculty, one to be appointed by the Faculty and one by the
Council of Students. The duration
of office of this committee shall be for
one college year. It shall be the duty
of this committee to meet at the request of the Council of Students to
consider any problem which the Council may place before them.

Article 9— Meetings.

Sec. 1. Not less than three regular
meetings of the Student Body shall
be held each year on dates specified
by the Council of Students. These
meetings shall be presided over by the
President of the Student Body. A
quorum shall consist of 100 members
of the Student Body. A _ special
meeting of the Student Body shall be
called by the President through the
medium of the Secretary upon presentation of a petition signed by 25
members of the Student Body.

Sec. 2. There shall be at least one
regular meeting of the Council of
Students each month.

‘Sec. 3. Special meetings of the
Students’ Council shall be called by
the President through the medium of
the Secretary-Tresurer to consider
any matters that arise. A quorum of
the Council of Students shall consist of five members exclusive of the
President.

Sec. 4. Notice of meetings. Notice of meetings of the Student Body
shall be posted on all the bulletin
boards of the University buildings
five days in advance of the meeting.
Notice of meetings of Council of Students shall be posted on bulletin
boards at least two days previous to
meetings.

Sec. 5. The procedure to be followed at all meetings of the Student

Body and Student Council shall be ,

as follows:

(a) Reading and approving of the
minutes of the previous regular
or special meeting;

The reading and disposing of
communications; "
Unfinished business;

Report of Committees;

New business;

Motions affecting general business;

Motions affecting the general
interest and welfare of the University.

Sec. 6. With the consent of the
President of the Council of Students
any registered student shall have the
right of appearing before the Council
in order to present matters of business.

Sec. 7. All motions before the
Student Body or Student Council
shall be decided by a majority vote,
except where otherwise provided.
The President or his representative
in the chair shall not vote, but he shall
have a casting vote in case of an equal
decision, or in case his vote is required
for a constitutional amendment of the
Council.

Sec. 8. Parliamentary
shall govern in all cases.

(b)

(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

(g)

procedure

Article 10--Resignationsand Vacancies.

Sec. 1. All resignations of members
of the Students’ Council, or any
appointment of the Council, shall be
made in writing and addressed to the
Secretary, to be submitted at a regular
meeting of the Council of Students
for action thereon. _

Sec. 2. Should a vacancy. occur in
the Students’ Council, or in any
appointment, it shall be filled as was
originally provided for.

Article 11—Removal from Office.

Sec. 1. When any member of the
Council of Students has failed to
attend three consecutive meetings of
the Council of Students without
reasonable excuse, the President shall,
with the consent of the Advisory
Board, declare his or her position vacant. Such members shall not be
eligible for re-election to the Council
during that term. The position shall
be filled as was originally provided
for,

Page Five

Article 12—Amendments
visions of the Constitution.

and Re
Sec. 1. No amendment or revision
of this constitution can be made except by a vote of not less than twothirds of the members present at a
meeting of the Student Body after
notice has been duly given at a preceding meeting of the Council.

Notice of Motion and Proposed
Amendment, must be posted in prominent places in the University buildings one week before the meeting.
Such amendments must be approved of
by the Senate of the University before
it becomes part of this constitution.

Article 13—Appointments.

Sec. 1. Two weeks before the date
of the last regular meeting of the
Council of Students, notices shall
be posted by the Secretary on all
Bulletin Boards of the University,
calling for applications for the positions
of Editor and Business Manager of the
Gazette and such other positions as,
in the opinion of the Council, need to
be filled. These positions shall be
filled by the Council of Students from
amongst the applicants.

Article 14—Awards.

Sec. 1. It shall be the privilege of
the Council of Students to award a
gold D. to any person who has performed a singular and exceptional

service to Dalhousie during the college
year.

SS Se ne ee ree
DEBATE TO-NIGHT
MT. A. vs. KING’S & DAL

Interesting Topic
Prominent Speakers

Be there!

Haliburton Room,
King’s College,
8.00 p. m. sharp.

CASINO

Saturday—Mon.—Tuesday

“Tarzan Escapes”

JOHNNY WEISSMULLER

MAUREEN O’SULLIVAN

— All New —

2 Years to Produce

Back Home

There’s A

Telephone

Chat with them once a week

for their happiness and your

own.

The reduced night

rates are in effect after 7.00

o’clock each

evening and

these low rates are also effect
ive all day Sunday.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

COMPANY, LTD.

 
 

oP le

————
- a

iS

eal

 

      
 
      
   
  

  

HOCKEY
Varsity 3; Dart. 9.

Interfaculty Basketball

Arts & Sci. 22—Med. 21.
Dent. 18—Pine Hill 17

Meet Tramways

Next Tuesday night the Tigers’
lair will’ be invaded by a bruising
band of Tramway hockeyists. Although Dal lost the last game, Dalhousie teams have shown through past
performances that they are capable
of staging a comeback particularly
when they are underrated by sport
experts. We are sure that this occasion will prove no exception.

The band will be in attendance and
there is no doubt that if they are up
to their recent high standard of play
they will aid greatly in keeping up
the morale of the Dal icemen. The
students can help to bring about a
victory by turning out in full force
to support their college team.

Everybody out—there will be a
bus leaving the gym to take students
to the game!

 

Fine Band Spirit

All due credit must be given the band
for their fine showing Tuesday night
Although the Hockey team went down.
to rather ignominious defeat, it was
not due to lack of noise from the few
Dal rooters that were present. The
band was in excellent shape and produced a brand of music that undoubtedly kept the pucksters out of the depths
of despair to which they might have
fallen. Between periods and through
most of the game they played popular

‘tunes that went over well with the

customers. We hope to see many

more supporters out for the next game

and we are sure that if the band is up

am to its usual standard, Dal cannot fail

to come out on top.

 

 

Seniors Practice

The Senior Basketball League opens

Thursday, Jan. 21st with Dal getting

ready to put a winning team on the
floor. It has been two years now since
a championship has been brought here
and the consensus of opinion around
the Campus is that this would be a
good time to do it. The team has
been holding regular practices three
times a week, with Coach Ecky Woodworth in attendance, and is gradually
coming into shape. The line of Stewart, Goudey and Hubbard has been
working well and high hopes hang on
this trio. Backed up by two guards of
the calibre of McLeod, Cook and Storey
they should do well in the senior circuit. Tough competition is expected
from Wanderers and Dal Grads, which
boast a line-up of former Dalhousie
stars, but with a little determination
and student support the Tigers’ 1937
squad should be as well as any in the
past.
—_ ——_o0--———-——
Interfaculty

Dentistry defeated Pine Hill in a
close opening game of the Interfaculty
League by a score of 18-17. Outstanding for Dents were Tokash nd Rodgers
while MacIntosh and McSween were
the pick of Pine Hill.

Pine Hill—MclIntosh 8, Watts,
Rodgers 2, Widden, McSween 4, McDonald 3, McLeod.

Dentistry—Stein 2, Tokosh 12,
Rodgers 2, Archibald 2, Becker, Tuckerman 2, Scott. Referee—Innes McLeod.

= - —

A great lover is one who can tell

whether a girl is pensive or just sleepy.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

oPuaT

 

SPORT SAGAS

Defeat of the hockey team coupled with the ‘‘laissez
faire’ attitude in basketball afford your sport coumnist
with little oppertunity for comment.

The Tiger hockeyist took a terrific beating Tuesday
evening as Dartmouth’s fighting Irishmen snowed them
under to the tune of 9-8. Its a rather hackneyed expression, but quite truthfully the score was no indication of
the play. The Dartmouth boys just couldn’t do anything wrong. The Tigers on the other hand failed to get
going until the third period.

 

Best of luck against Tramways next Tuesday.

 

The trouble with the hockeyists as we see it lies in the fact that they
are playing in company far superior to their own ability. Dalhousie has
not a weak team but they certainly haven’t men of the calibre of Lawlor,
MacKenzie and Hanrahan.

Wanderer’s will travel to Sackville for a hoop exhibition with Bull
Lister’s charges on Saturday. It was reported that the Tigers were slated
for this trip. Somebody blundered. Yes, again.

During the week we read several accounts of exhibition games among
the local senior teams. Dalhousie was not among them. We presume
the powers that be in basketball are taking such a course for the sale of
secrecy. Lets hope they have a surprise on hand when the whistle blows.

Track and field athletes will begin training immediately in preparatiion
for the big indoor meet which is to be conducted in the near future. The
D. A. A. C. had to do something.

Byron Hatfield will play basketball with the Tigers. Such is the edict
of the D. A. A. C.

 

If members of the alumni are attempting to persuade present students

to perform on the alumni squad their efforts should be investigated. Mr.
Barnhill, please get out the dogs.
Dalhousie will enter a team in Intercollegiate hockey. Intercollegiate

competition seems to be the logical place for Dalhousie teams.

If the first workout was any indication—boxing will have a large following this year. Messrs. MacNutt and Stewart are to be congratulated
on the aggressive steps they have taken in this line.

January 15th, 1937

SPORT SCHEDULE

Hockey:
Dal vs. Tramways

Tuesday Jan. 19
Intermediate Basketball:
Dal vs. Tech.
Saturday, Jan. 16.

 

Varsity Defeated| Boxers Prepare

The men of Dartmouth packed too,
much power for the Dalhousians Tuesday night and the result was that the
Tigers were handeda neat lesson in
how to play hockey.

The game was very fast and despite
the large score was quite interesting.
The Dal boys should have won the
game in the first period but were outskated. outguessed and outplayed
by a fast skating pack of forwards and
a stonewall defense. The whole Dal
team showed that they were sadly in
need of practice. Backchecking was
a lost art and time after time the green
shirts of A. O. H. swept down on a Dal
defense that tried hard, but could not
do the impossible. Fahie in the Tigers
nets was not to blame for the large
number of goals that got past him and
at times he rose to spectacular heights
to keep the score from mounting
higher. Napier got the first Tiger
goal, Cohn got the second on a pass
from Graham and Dewolf caged the
third and last marker. However, it
was not Dal’s night and the Tigers
had to accept the short end of a 9-3

count.
—————I0——<_—

Interfaculty

Arts & Science 22—Medicine 21.

In the other game of the doubleheader Arts defeated Medicine by the
close score of 22-21. The pick of the
Arts squad were Stewart and Hubbard
while Horowitz was outstanding for
Medicine.

Arts & Science—B. Stewart, Winters 4, Hubbard 3, Mackenzie 2, -D.
Stewart 9, Lyall, Vair 2, Hodges, Kagle,

Medicine—Horowitz 7, Murphy 4,
Serlin 4, Harris 2.

COLWELL BROTHERS LIMITED
Annual January Sale

 

With the intercollegiate meet taking
place early in March, with Nova Scotia
Tech acting as hosts, Dal boxers, under
the coaching of Duff Stewart are busily
preparing for their biggest attempt to
date at an intercollegiate title.

Last year’s team are all back, and
with the exception of Jack Moskowitz, present intercollegiate bantamweight titleholder, have turned out en
Jack has stated his intentions
of retiring undefeated, due to the pressure of his medical studies, but may
yet be persuaded to swing into action.

Miller Ballem, light-heavy, Johnny
Weldon, middleweight, Steve Macnutt,

masse.

welter, Tommy White, Lightweight,
and Wink Johnson, featherweight,
are the present college titleholders

but all them are expected to find stiff
competition in holding their positions
on the team. Bob Thurgood, Paul
Nonamaker, and Keith Hodson are
likely to make Ballem hustle in the
light-heavy Ron Wallace,
local boxing pride, will prove more than
a sparring partner for Weldon in the
middleweight Four newcomers, Tick Fennell, Alan Bigelow,
Henry Ballem and Webster MacDonald are after Macnutt’s crown.
Archie MacDonald will oppose Tommy
White, last year known as the team’s
smartest boxer, and Johnson will find
plenty of opposition from the gloves
of Evatt Merchant and Jack Boyd.

The trials for the team position will
be held late in February. With Stewart’s expert coaching, and the added
assistance of several former intercollegiate champions the team that represents Dalhousie should be in a fine
position to win the meet.

division.

division.

BIG REDUCTIONS IN EVERY DEPARTMENT INCLUDING OUR HIGH CLASS STOCK OF MEN’S SUITS, OVERCOATS, WATERPROOF
COATS, FURNISHINGS, HATS, CAPS, BAGGAGE, MOTOR RUGS, BLANKETS AND NOVELTIES. WE LIST HERE A FEW OF THE BARGAINS, MANY OTHERS IN EACH DEPARTMENT. 20% DISCOUNT OFF THE REGULAR PRICE ON ALL ITEMS IN THIS LIST. THE OLD
REGULAR PRICES ARE CLEARLY MARKED—YOU DEDUCT ONE-FIFTH AND PAY THE BALANCE.

MEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS

MEN’S GLOVES
MEN’S SHIRTS

MEN’S PAJAMAS

MEN’S SWEATERS

MEN’S HOSIERY |
MEN’S NECKTIES AND SCARVES
MEN’S DRESSING GOWNS

MEN’S SUSPENDERS, BRACES, GARTERS OR BELTS

ALL BAGGAGE AND LEATHER GOODS
ROBE AND STEAMER TRUNKS, GLADSTONE AND CLUB

BAGS.

MEN’S HANDKERCHIEFS, CAPS, CANES AND UMBRELLAS,
MOTOR RUGS, BLANKETS, SWEAT SHIRTS, SKI PANTS,

LADIES’ SILK HOSIERY.
MEN’S WATERPROOF COATS

   

7 am
r ~
ae I ‘
ie - Pi Ss
| ‘A, oy er % ges s Say) q

Final mark down on a fine stock of men’s winter coats.

Ever

wanted style and fabric and a complete assortment of sizes.

Regular values $17.50 Thrift Sale Price $13.50

6é

é¢

éé

$20.00 éé éé ‘6
$25.00 r es
$30.00 % “

$17.50
** $19.50
* $23.95

All other coats in stock reduced for this sale.

MEN’S SUITS

 

INCLUDING WARD
Every suit in stock is reduced for this sale.
measure service at special January clearance prices.

We also offer a special

Come in and

see our fine stock of clothing. Mens fine quality worsted and

42.

Tweed suits smart young men’s styles and sport models.
Regular price $25.00. Thrift Sale price $21.50.

Size 34 to

Men’s dark worsteds in a good assortment of young men’s and
business men’s styles, sizes 34 to 44. Thrift Sale Price $17.50.

COLWELL BROTHERS Limited
The English Shop

 

HALIFAX

 

 

 
