    
  

RP
pera

ae

Bae

"
a
Bit
* a
ay ey
le”

ate

on
7 ™~

ge

j
4
al
pa Pad

oF! see

#

management,

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 5th, 1937

<potte

BY THE SEA’’;

 

 

Subscribe

Now

For Your Copy
of Pharos

 

No. 19

 

 

 

: “Hay Fever’ Great Success

With Accomplished Cast

Mary Marsh’s Fine Performance Makes Glee Club Best
Feature In Many Years

Produced by the newly formed Dramatic Society and presented by the

- Glee Club, ‘Hay Fever’’ was an out
standing success. It was, in fact, the
best dramatic feature seen on the Dal
stage in recent years. Good stage
an attractive set, a
sparkling Noel Coward play, and an
accomplished cast combined to ensure
success.

The play was rather slow opening
due- partly perhaps to nervousness on
the actors’ parts, but certainly greatly
due to the amount of noise*made by the
audience whlh made it impossible to
catch a word beyond the first row.

However, after a while both audience

+

Dats
a

a

c

a

ie}

  

_. fole of “Judith.”
ingenuous manner of this “‘actress-|

and actors steadied down and some of
the best examples of Mr.
gay dialogue were expounded in a truly
_ professional mien,

Outstanding was Mary Marsh in the
Mary captured the

y" and in a reaily charming manner.

 

* In our « opinion, this was the best indi
vidual performance of the year. In

_ particular we liked Judith’s “‘winsome”’
, ie the game in Act II. Bud Mac- Dougall, diplomatist ‘supreme, also

earned much applause for his excellent

portrayal—remember the scene with

“Jackie” in Act I? Jean Fitzgerald

and Steve McNutt did very well by
the lively if somewhat startling young
things. We might mention “Simon’s’’
amorous dive across the sofa and ‘‘Sor
I’s’—“Let’s go back into the library!” The rest of the cast including
Betty Pearson, Marjorie McLean, Jack
Arnell, Marg Schwartz and Charlie
Roberts all portrayed their various
characters in a polished and pleasing
manner.

A few errors in lines were made but
the cast responded admirably and
quickly filled in the gaps so that the
audience noticed little. So in the
nature of criticism, one of the few
points which could be mentioned is
purely a matter of opinion: there was
perhaps some miscasting of one or two
characters. In our opinion, the parts
and actresses of the sophisticate ‘‘Myra’”’ and the bewildered flapper “Jackie”
should have been switched. However,
in general the play was well cast and
produced.

Much credit and many thanks are
due to Mrs. Pigot for her direction of
the play, and to the Dramatic Society
for the conspicuous success of a first
attempt. | Congratulations Glee Club!

 

King’s Broadcast

Last Thursday night's student radio
programme marked a progressive step

in intra-university relations, and alse

maintained the high quality of the
programmes being presented by the
students under the capable direction
of John Fisher. The broadcast featured a presentation by the students of
King’s College. Here at Dalhousie
we have the distinction of having two
universities on one campus. It is
encouraging to see the two colleges

’ continue to show the close co-operation

- evident between them.

;

cas
b

The students
of King’s, the oldest English university
in North America, put on a fine pro
- gramme consisting of group singing,
an informal discussion on co-operatives,
and other interesting touches.

Cona Kings.

Coward’s

ae

Upholds Doctors

DR. W. D. FORREST

City and County Public Health
Officer, vigorous alumnus of Dalhousie, who will lead for the affirmative in the feature debate tonight in the Dal Gymnasium on the
subject: ‘‘Resolved that Doctors
are more beneficial to society than
Lawyers.”’

Dr. Forrest is well-known for his
wit and for his forceful presentation. Tonight Dr. Forrest will be
engaged in an occupation agreeable to any medico, in showing up
the depravity of the average lawyer, and in tearing them apart
forensically if not physically. He
will be ably assisted by ArtOrmiston
a med student well-known for
his debating prowess.

Tonight is a big night for Sodales.
The alumni will be out in force,
and so will the students. Come
and cheer

 

Election. Asides

Looking through the looking-glass
at the elections we see two lawyers
voting for Day, while 17 Meds felt that
a lawyer would be more suitable in the
presidential chair. Without the Med
vote Day came with 13 votes of Cook.
Arts and Science gave Day a margin of
35 over Cook,

Marsh won in all polls from Teasdale
but in that of the contrary lawyers
who in nearly every case backed the
wrong horse while the Meds could do
nothing wrong. Every man Medicine
backed was elected. Corston won from
Cragg in the face for D. A. A. C. vicepresidency in every poll but Dentistry
and Medicine, and would have defeated
Cragg but for Medicine.

The new council will have only three
former councillors in Day, Egan and
Hurst, unless the councillor-at-large
should be a former councillor. Out of
24 fraternity men and women running
for position 12 were chosen, and out of
14 non-fraternity 7 won. Fraternity
men defeated non-fraternity in only 3
cases, while non-fraternity defeated
fraternity in 5 cases.

The Arts campus overflowed with
Meds—Dal’s Jim Farley in his b’arskin coat with cigar and all was here
there and everywhere rallying his
forces to a smashing  victory,.

 

_ DRAMA CLUB SCORES HIT WITH FIRST PRODUCTION

*
eo

 

THE COUNCIL FOR 1937-38

President.
G. Fred Day

Vice-President
Robert A. Marsh

Medicine
Clarence Gosse
Bud MacKenzie

Dentistry
Clem Egan ‘

Law
lan MacKeigan

Commerce
Peter Nicholson

Engineering
Maurice Lipton
Class ’38

Douglas Lyall
Margaret Schwartz

Class ’39
George Corston
Betty Pearson

Class ’40
Douglas NicKean

Freshman Representative
Roland Hurst

 

Athletic and Dramatic Heads

 

D. A. A. C.

President
Gordon Thompson

Vice-President
Edward Cragg

Secretary-T reasurer
Bill MacKay

GLEE CLUB

President
Hazen Mitchell

Vice-President
Marion Geldert

Business Manager
Jack Arnell

 

Ring Rule At Dalhousie

Time does not alter nor the years decay—the customs at Dalhousie. Seven
years ago KellyMorton wrote: ‘Dalhousie student life is diseased with fraternity politics. The last StudentCouncil electons prove for all time that a man
will win or fail on the issue of his fraternity and not on his ability. Fraternity
politics are doing the same thing religon would do in nationa: politics if it were no
for our party system. The present system is shot through and through with rule of
cliques, fraternities, sororities, and residences. In Law, Dentistry, and Medicine, the professional fraternities control the electorate. If you do not belong to
the fraternity there is no sense running for the Council,” Are not these strong
words still to a large extent true today? oes a miniature Tammany Hall control our destinies?

In a manner more flagrant and brazen than for many years past, cliques,
fraternities, and self-seeking faculties fought for the balance of power in the recent elections. Strong rumours are afloat of dishonourable bargaining (merely
a type of bribery)—you vote for our man and we will vote for yours—of ojfers of
positions as managers, on class and society executives, on publication staffs.

How to avoid these defects is not a simple question. Abloition of fraterniites would be no solution. A get-together of leading spirits in fraternities and
other cliques and an agreement to let elections be run purely on the merits of the
individual would be only a temporary palliative. The defect is in the general attitude of the student to politics, which attitude is in imitation of their elders’ atitude in national, provincial and civic politics. It is a sad commentary on our
civilization! The best we can hope for is, with the idealism of youth, to reduce
the evil to a minimum.

We but leave you with the question?
so goes Dalhousie?

Why is it that—As Medicine goes

ONE OF THE SEVENTEEN.

 

 

 

“AS MEDICINE GOES SO GOES DALHOUSIE”

‘Day Elected President
With Marsh Assistant —~
Few Surprises At Polls

 

Thompson New Athletic Head—NMitchell, Glee Club

MacKenzie and Merchant are Gazette Editors

 

  

Upholds Lawyers

JUDGE R. H. MURRAY

County Court Judge, and loyal
Dalhousian, who will uphold the
honour of his profession by defending the negative of the resolution—‘’Resolved that doctors are
more beneficial to society than lawyers’”’ in the alumni-student debate tonight. Assisted by an able
student
the Law School. Judge Murray
in his usual humorous and clever
way, will attempt to convince the
audience that the reputation of
lawyers of shysterism is founded
on slander, and that, on the contrary, lawyers are the guardians of
society, its law-givers and administrators.

Lawyers and doctors, bothstudent
and alumni, will be out in force to
cheer their representatives and to
see the fall of their rivals, while a
great mass of other students and
graduates will be out to watch the
bloody fray. Everybody out! This
is a gala affair in Dalhousie’s year.

Model League

Dalhousie and Kings were called
the incomparable and perfect hosts by
the sixty delegates from six universities in session here last week for the
Ninth Maritime Intercollegiate Assembly of the League of Nations.
Truly it was a remarkable two day
session, remarkable because of its complete representation from all
maritime universities, remarkable because tfe well attended sittings
enlightening discussion and interesting
speeches, remarkable foremost because of the spirit shown in every phase
of the program.

Friday morning

 

major

of

the sessions commenced the Haliburton room of
Kings College. Chairman Ernest Higgins in a fitting manner announced the
official opening of the Session. Professor R. A. MacKay delivered an address of welcome. The first topic of
the day, that the former German colonies in Africa be restored to Germany
was most interestingly debated by
seven orators. This was followed by a
resolution that Canada should. join
the Pan-American Union. Views on
this were notable for their logic and
novelty.
(Continued on page 4.)

in

 

debater, Isaac Mercer of |

| Bud MacKenzie,

6

Tuesday was a bright and sunny day
—peace lay upon the world except—
a war in Spain and election day at Dalhousie. The 25th anniversary of the
Council of Students brought to the
polls the largest number of voters for
several years (approximately 577)
The innovation through the revised
constitution whereby the student body
voted for its President and Vice-President proved very popular and the students showed their appreciation by an
increased exercise of their

Student life will assume
normal routine as now the majority of
student posts for the coming year are
filled.

There were no great surprises in the
elections. Fred Day, Medicine, is the
new Council president winning in all
polls except Law and Commerce over
Bill Cook, Law. Mr. Day is a quiet,
capable chap who was a member of
this year’s council and such experience
should stand him in good stead. He is

|}a popular member of Phi Rho Sigma.
The Vice-Presidency (Studley man)
went to Bob Marsh, the efficiency man
of the Daily Bulletin, over his fraternity
brother, Eric Teasdale. Mr. Marsh
will serve his first term onthe Council.
Law returned Ian MacKeigan,
Gazette editor and former basketball
manager. Mr. MacKeigan’s experience
in the realms of sport and campus affairs should prove a decided asset.
Medicine have Clarence
Gosse, who has had considerable experience on the Medical Journal, and
assistant football
their interests.

franchise.

again its

chosen

manager, to look after

The Commerce Society member for
1938 will be Pete Nicholson. Pete
is from Glace Bay—but a good man.
Maurice Lipton will represent the
Engineers. He is a well-known Engineer and member of the intermediate

football team. Dentistry returned
Clem Egan, member of this year’s
Council. Mr. Egan has done invalu
 

able work with the Dal Band.

In Arts the elections were very close.
Class '40 elected Doug MacKean, a
thoroughly likeable chap wih great debating talent. George Corston, a
member of the Tigers Senior Championship football team, will represent along
with Miss Betty Pearson, who is a
valued member of the Gazette
Glee Club,

Class ‘38
Doug Lyall
Schwartz.

and

will be represented by

and Miss Margaret
Mr. Lyall has been actively interested in basketball and the
Gazette and gives every promise of
being an efficient Miss
Schwartz has taken an active part in
student life at Dalhousie.

executive.

(Continued on Page 4)

NOTICE

Due to the great demand for
year-books this year the Year
Book staff give notice that regardless of the names subscribed
only the first three hundred persons to pay $2.00 will get delivery

of their copy of Pharos. Pay
your subscription at once if you
want a year book to any Council
member or to any of the following: — Walter Murphy, Elwyn
Hughes, Ron Hiseler, Roy Gold,
Anne Hirsch, Henry Reardon.

 

 
      

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Romance Or

What Have You

Revised Gym
Schedule

 

March 5th, 1987

Views On News

Mr. Aberhart in Alberta and Mr.

ee Pas : 5 3 Duplesses in Quebec each seem to be

The Phi Chi’s had their formal last} At the Joint Meeting on Monday ew trouble keeping their cabinets
week—ihe Pi Phi’s will have their’s} afternoon of the Senate Gymnasium intact. Resignations are the order of
to-night—the Sigma Chi’s stage the big} Committee, the Student Gymnasium the day. Isn’t it possible that both

event on Monday night while the Phi
Delt’s are running in opposition to the
Junior Prom on Friday night. What a
fortnight. What a fortnight.

Committee and the Executive of the
Students’ Council, with Dr. Carleton
Stanley in the Chair, the following revised schedule for the Dalhousie Gym
    

 

 

a aA
—_—. — ee”

at the price of obtaining office, promised more than they could perform?

 

/ J. D. CREASE, B.A. We were not entirely in accord with) nasium was submitted by Professor cK are
™ - Ph. B-5737 the writings of the Fed Up Junior last ei H. Mercer, Chairman of the Senate The performance ¥ ; Hay Fever
Astaciaies: . week but this much must be said on/G, C., and John Carroll, Chairman of brought home the necessity of having
m4 SROCRONES - icant Arab, BiA his behalf, The girls around the land} the Seiadeat GC, the students seated when a play begins.
PA ee John Fisher : aoe tn f Dal li Y ilv—th Lar . Couldn't we get back to the ancient
; rd S. MacLat B. P.S.M tt 0 are slipping. es verily €Y | Monday evenings—C. O. T. C. and ; : :
ee _Edwa h F os A. Kaye aces are slipping. Three years ago and Basketball (as 1936-37) rule of starting on time and, in ad- Geo, ‘AL Murphy, Tk Elwyn GC. Hughes every year previous to that the girls Tuesday evening 7) (October to Dec- dition—how about closing the doors
= + staged the affair a la supreme which ember) 8.30, Girls and Faculty arter the SELSATR OESICD
2 News Editor. : Sports Editor. was a as the Delta Gamma For- Beeaiotes Club. ee gp oe France seems ne
a ‘ a mal. ruly a magnificent spectacle— (January to Munro Day) 8.30, nave his political opponents “on the
ROLAND eg : ARCHIE B. MacKENZIE | jong remembered by the favored few— eae Cup Badminton League hip” at least for the moment. Last
Ph. B-3427 ; ; Ph, B-3824 But now they never have it anymore. (2 nights), Matches with Alumni- week he told those who had criticised
t BS a Associates. : Faculty (2 nights), Girls v. Alum- oe the policies of his government, that if
: ¥ 2 GORDON THOMPSON. they did not like them he was prepared
L.A. Mandreville, B.A. Earle Fraser, B.A. Grsbaard-at the Biections Thedlay.. n Faculty Women (2 nights) Pier eed ents
Roy Gold, B.Sc. Arthur Merkel 0 Soph TEAM practice (4 nights) to dissolve the legislature and go to
Jack Reynolds Peggy Merkel ee oe 4 One SOBER 3. (Munro Day to Exams) Girls Li W. d the people for their verdict. The vote
, while marking their ballots. A Ait Siriey Badminton Club. ines on a aste of censure was defeated by a vote of
eee ‘idea ey ee N me Bi ico . ete Wednesday evening—Softball Inter- Youth 361 to 211. A sort of ‘‘stay-in strike”
=a ow let me see Bill Coo yes, he’s : :
Vi perhaps.
ate - | GORDON K. DALEY B. Com. R. L. ARMSTRONG B.A. that nice looking boy who places on the faculty League. f i l
a ie Ph, B-5700 Phone B-5700 ppabehAl. ¥eamn = «Weds aids le played Thursday evening—Basketball League,| _If I should die tonight, I know:
ei “3 ae | Proof Editor etiaikitoo, “Bit eae about “Day? as 1936-7. The truthless stories that would It is debatable just what good is
ae ce = CHARLES A. ROBERTS ‘What day?’ ‘Why its TuesDAY’.” No, Friday evening—Lectures, Glee Club grow: done, by articles written to create a
5 ee ek ‘ i mein the other candidate. It says shows, Debates, Dances. ‘‘Brilliant career cut short,” they’d say;| disturbance. We suggest that columns
‘oe Mh ae here G. Fred Day. Don’t you re- This revised schedule is not intended} ‘Poor chap, I saw him yesterday.’’| should be written well enough and conued A FORWARD DALHOUSIE! aber Wk! the eh lite chap who |*? operate neg the a _ o year,| And they would search my petty days| tain enough material to interest people,
Ps tC ; d at ¢ i E i ai at é Y ar I “Te a
cave Gee ~All Dalhousians who are truly interested in their Alma Mater’s|spoke at the Student Forum. Oh! and will = : ri : a y my a! To find some word or deed to praise.| rather than gage ther importance and
Re es h f h f -| no you didn’t go to the Student Forum, theeting ‘ot the otudent-senate Gym- success by the number of angry replies
be Ps wie welfare must view with satisfaction the ene recent signs ae g nasium Committee, probably around| But this is what they should have said| they receive from the long-suffering
Me ress. Outstanding among these signs is the attempt, both as a]did you? Now let me think, John 3 o S | s : } g
y hj h Munro Day. It was pointed out at If truth were spoken of the dead: Gazette readers.
“part of the 1938 centennial campaign and as a part of a general| Fisher said something about who to aoe :
me ue li ‘ the ‘alliini and. alumnae of the “Little Col- vote for. Who’s John Fisher? Oh! the meeting on Monday afternoon: 1.| ‘This creature of the human race
ek icy to organize a All non-sporting events (lectures de-| Was everything that’s commonplace. =

- lege” that they may better serve her. The embryonic organizations at Pictou, Yarmouth, and elsewhere, are, we hope, but the
first of a great array of associations of active and loyal graduates

Sos. Ser Dalhousie.
; It is encouraging to see that, the alumni and the Board of

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

are beginning to realize the necessity of advertising the excellent
educational facilities available at Dalhousie. They are right in
_ shunning _ undesirable high-pressure commercialism, but right also
- in recognizing their duty to the people of the Maritimes of letting
¥ i: ‘them know that Dalhousie has, we think, something to offer which
; i is not obtainable elsewhere.

ri Saye +

ae - THE MODEL LEAGUE OF NATIONS

oi _ Dalhousie-Kings. played hosts to a gathering from all the};
iehersiies of the Maritimes last week-end—the visiting dele
is (oli Model League of Nations gathered here to conduct an

i on that famous gathering at Geneva. The dele
I t event in the life of the college the

( ‘ue was founded by Dr. MacKay, Professor of

litical Sci Scien ice at Dalkousic, and Sir Herbert R. Ames in an ef
_ for to instil in the minds of Maritime undergraduates just what is
done at Geneva.

The past few years have seen the League Assembly at Geneva

_checkmated on the major issues of the day such as the Italian

‘conquest of Ethiopia, the German militaristic attitude, the war in

~ Spain and as a result much faith in it as a medium to peace has

- 3 Bec lost. Despite these setbacks the League has done and con
BS -_ tinues to do much good for it is through it that problems in in
-_ ternational relationships, labor, health, vital to the best utiliza
e Ft tion of the tremendous forces of the modern world are receiving

fe. _ practical consideration.

_ As has been seen from the past League fiascos, wholehearted
ar _ cooperation of member nations is essential for the League’s con= _ tinuance—this has not been so in the past to the advantage of na
cs e tions who have dared to test the League’s vulnerability.

_ Here at Dalhousie the problems and positions of various

| countries were ably presented by the several delegates entrusted
_ with the representation of member nations.

The gathering was important not only to direct participants

- but also to those who took advantage of hearing questions of worldwide interest discussed intelligently.

Outstanding contributions to the Assembly were: a resolu
tion suggesting among other things that the Dominion should

undertake its share of the burden in naval defences and should

equip and train air forces with a view to cooperation in the event

5 of an attack upon any member state of the British Commonwealth;

a is the favoring the affiliation of Canada with the Pan-American

, _ Union; defeating the resolution that the former German colonies

a in Africa be restored under a mandate t6)Germany with the pro
=. ~*~ vision that Germany rejoin the League of Nations; and that Can
a ada should remain strictly neutral in cases of_war, regardless of

et, whom the belligerents may be.

a These thoughts put forward by the intellectually trained

youth of today are well worth the consideration of the powers that

—
:

 

  

a
4

LP
: a
Se

you know Fisher the man who talks
all the time. Once he wanted a beer
parlor at Dalhousie but now he thinks
a Student Union would do. He said
that the Med’s have held the power too

vote for the Cook and I'll cast my lot
with Day and nobody can complain.

Who will we vote for Vice President.
Bob Marsh is running—you know Bob
he’s Mary’s brother. They both spoke
at the Student Forum. Bob’s awfully
shy. What fraternity does Teasdale
belong to Marion? Sigma Chi, but
you can’t pick him on that account

’cuz Marsh does too. Oh! well lets
vote for Teasdale anyway.

It's a good thing we don’t have to
-vote in the Commerce and Engineering
elections. I never heard of any of them
except Pete Nicholson. Guess they
must study all the time.

Marion, who will we vote for between
Corston and Arnell. Is that J. Carstairs Arnell. You know him Marj.
he’s spoofy—you know the stupidacting one. He’s a pretty good actor
and from what I hear of the Council
they're terrible actors so I think we
should vote for Arnell.

Aw let's give it up—This is an awful
mess.

Overheard last Sunday afternoon—
Helen Holman to Earle Fraser, “I think
your wonderful”. How are you Ted?

Tiger Veniot had a lovely time at
Acadia. Fire escapes provided the
medium for the Tigers delightful visit
to pulchritude. Some trip, Tiger.

Betty Flood has appendicitis. We
don't know of course, we only heard.

The Phi Kappa played the Phi Delts
at the Forum last week end. . The
Kapps won the conquest by a score of
4-2. There was more behind the Phi
Delt defeat than may appear on the
surface.

bates, dances, shows) are to be allocated to the one night, Friday, leaving
Wednesday night open for the Softball Interfaculty games. 2. The girls

March, they would allow badminton

matches, and badminton team practice for these matches, to be played on
Tuesday night, from 8.30 on, with the
proviso that on the four practice nights
the team should leave three courts open
for girls not belonging to the team.
This arrangement would not interfere
with girls’ badminton, it was stated,
inasmuch as the girls who now play
badminton on Tuesday night would
also under the suggested change be
playing on the McCurdy or praetice
teams. 3. B SENSOR: is made for a

“special jam,’’ e. g., a lecture plus a
show or dance the same week—circumstances cannot always be controlled
—by giving Saturday afternoon to
Softball when Wednesday evening is
taken for a lecture, debate, show or
dance. Normally, it was felt, all
parties would ecpernte so that Friday night would be the college “cultural’’ night for lectures, shows, debates, dances,

Some gentle irony was stirred up at
the suggestion that dancing belonged
to the category of ‘cultural’ happenings. The joint meeting was a very
pleasant one and might be repeated
from time to time.

Cc. H. MERCER,
Chairman, Senate Gymnasium
Committee.
ef eee

“Tt is forbidden to kill; therefore
all murderers are punished unless
they kill in large numbers and tothe
sound of trumpets.’’—Vollatre.

He had no special claim to be
Marked out for immortality,

No grave offences to confess—
Just twenty years of uselessness.”’

Von Ribbenthrop,: the ex-whiskey
salesman, present German Ambassador
to Great Britain, when recently presented to the King clicked his heels and

or Governors are beginning to realize that the methods of running a| long. Really Marj. I don’t think ee. i halla Mag foe al hea lea peer see Eee) ee oe Hat
* ¢ hat es, that 1s truth, and truth 1s cruel,|everyone present resisted the temptant from those of 1838. They |either one of us know these men so you ‘
« university in 19388 are much different y during the rush season, January to O God, have mercy on a fool! tion to ‘‘toe’’ Von Ribbenthrop.

 

During Convocation Week

Have Your Friends Stop At

THE CARLETON

CENTRAL

HOMELIKE

REASONABLE

 

Style i Siglo that Passes

 

Any Examination

. Ee be for they represent the trend of thought of the younger gener-| x
- ation—the backbone of the nation.

is The large delegation, the widespread interest, the seriousness ‘ le ;

of thought, bespeak of the most. successful assembly yet. The You can give this suit the eye—your friends— your professors— your

importance of nell aie undertaking cannot be overemphasized. coach—your heart-beat; it will pass the acid test because you'll find
e ——_—__—_—. nothing smarter—anywhere. A graceful, double-breasted suit with
bee THE DRAMATIC CLUB ; style written all over it—and riding the wave of style popularity on
“in A new group successfully launched its career at Dalhousie every campus (not including the Scandinavian). The model shown is
last Friday with one of the finest stage performances seen here a Tip Top “original”. A slightly longer coat, full-chested, fitted snugly

 
       
   
 
     
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   

_ since the days of Kelly Morton, Art Murphy, Ruth MacAulay, and
| other former Dal stage favorites. The Dramatic Club’s pre_ sentation of Noel Coward’s “Hay Fever’’ had an appreciative audi- ence literally laughing their headsoff. Thisgrouporganizeda year
> s have read many plays in an effort to find one suitable and
Ss stable for presentation and on choosing “Hay Fever’’ have
unselfishly to make their first play a success.

The reward of work well done came Friday night ‘with a

Ss ia
e* oy

  

te congratulates the newly elected members of the
nts. A great responsibility has been placed upon
tis ‘up to you to guide the destinies of the land
ear, ed an able ae experienced

* : ent, r ay—give im your full
oI Peat gine times will come to Dal. Good luck!

at the waist, breaks gently for a draped effect. Trousers cut full with
narrower bottoms. Hand-cut and tailored to measure.

TTU337

You Get the New Styles First at Tip Top

$24.95

4 up rb performance. pomeratmatens, Dramatic Club, and keep
ee. TIP TOP TAILORS
pans _ TO THOSE ELECTED |

LIMITED

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 

HAND CUTAND TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

 

 

 

ies = 4 “" + te iar le 7
aa : a oe NG ig tigd 2
tn ey he = = 7 a : ; a et

r : x es - ‘hee oie tn ~ t i

ge eee aN em: epee ad) Pe Ae
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
     

2 craft a at Dalhousie were made,
ter much | hilarity, President Lea
to art the ~? boys and play

 

 

 

 

 

   
    

 

 

1 fest matter to rise was in conn with the appointment of the
tte editors for 1938. Applications
been received from Messrs. Ben
rs and Babbitt Parlee and
. Evatt Merchant and Archie
After due consideration

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
    
  

tt Ede of previous experience.
te was decided next to hold a vote

; Wao connection with the Student Council
one on the matter of the Student
‘Union which is experiencing
ch interest in Upper Canada.
.e _ Business Manager G. K. Daley of the
poets uncovered a very enterprising
scheme by which Dalhousie will have a
Sonvocation issue of the Dalhousie
P Gazerte. Council agreed that he bring
= the issue providing it didn't cost

any money.
Se The Glee Cub then rendered a reve quest for seven gold D’s and one honorary ‘award. Those students obtainir ng the necessary points for the Glee
Club award are Marion Geldert,
‘ Bias aret Kerr, Ted Watson, Phil
_ Stein, Murray Gould, Leonard Safmf ny Jack Dacey and an honorary
7 “award for Geoffrey Marshall who has

poe so generously of his time and
‘ _ effort in the direction of several plays—
y _ Passed.
- Bandmaster Gordon Thompson was
€ next man to take the stand. He
row in the Band constitution, a
gthy and very minute document,
h failed to inspire any of the counrs with unusual interest. The
Imen are to have an award in the
of a felt D with a lyre inside the
er of the D. Several of the coununfamiliar with music were

=

   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
     
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
    
  
  
    
    
  
    
      
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
  

+3
iv

mpson kept calling tyre—lyre—
Lea—but finally the whole
ead ‘ironed out and PASSED.
‘matter of the Year Book fee to
added to the existing $10.00 now
uired from each student was then
ught up for discussion. It will be
membered that a ballot was taken on
‘this matter last year but the Senate
¢ idid ‘not see fit to consider the student
_ request—and so the Council are going
‘to try again. Rather strong statem nents were made in connection with
- University’s’ action in this case
: Fale they failed to answer the student
a oe on the excuse that they did
ee not wish to raise registration fees and
x _ then turned around and tacked on a
~ library fee.

Fe _ The matter of a salary for the property manager of the Glee Club then
be arose. This official now receives $75.00
for his efforts and the Council are of the

as unable to reach any decision on the
i matter.
- Elwyn Hughes, he who upholds the
‘ a rerate of the Arts and Science next
= took the floor. He maintained that
= the graduate students should be represented on the Council and one
‘ John Dacey, with him ably backed
e up his demands. The Council asked
ie what society this representative would
A represent. No Society, retorted Mr.
_ Hughes. He shall represent the Gradu
     
  
  
    

=

[Do You Know That

| Dathousie has conferred 1726
ve prmaestsnal degrees

_ 757 Doctors.
785 Lawyers.

 
 
  

51 MISS MACNEIL
ies af pee or r Hot Oil

  

 
  

over the fact that]

opinion that this is too much but were

F. ates. Which simply looks like a nice
little gesture to enable one more man
oe . on the Council and that’s

  
  
   

  
  
   

 

   
    

- DESIGN FOR LIVING

Well, the tumult and the shouting
have died, and once more the Council
has a Forrest president. It seems
amazing that among the three hundred and fifty Studley males, the present Council was unable to find one that

would be competent to run for presi- |}

dent. I guess we’re just a hopeless
bunch of incompetents. Maybe next
year we should have a sort of White
Hope tournament, and start grooming
the unfortunate winner for the position.
He won’t be allowed to drink, smoke
or listen to conversations in the university store. He will be barred from
all but the gym college dances, and
must never skip a lecture. He must
attend all football, hockey, and basketball games wearing a brown bowler and
waving a Dalhousie pennant about in
the breeze at the least possible excuse.
He must attend all student forums and
speak loudly and meaninglessly on every
question that arises. He must also
listen to the president's opening address
and must take notes on the same. He
must not be seen in conversation with
anyone but Council members. Altogether we'll make is life a complete
misery, but look at his supreme reward!

Memories of the Dramatic Season

The unavoidable unpreparedness of
the opening “Glee Club Review” show.
Bud Macdougall’s singing, and the
harmonica player in ‘‘Cinderella'’—
Julius Forster’s Cockney in ‘‘Three
Live Ghosts’’—the gun that failed to
fire in ‘‘Mobilization,”’ or whatever it
was called—Evelyn Embree’s Alfreda
in ‘“Sardines’—a rottenly written play
—lackofpep and poise in Pine Hiill’s
“Ghost of Jerry Bunder’’—the bewildering start of ‘‘Old Moore's Almanac”’ that smoothed itself out so
nicely—almost—the villain. in ‘The
“Man in the Bowler Hat’’—perfection i in
overacting—and the good finish to the
same play that fell so flat—Shakespeare in the Sigma Chi play—best
acting on the Dal stage for a long,
long time—Mary Marsh and Bud Macdougall in ‘‘Hay Fever’’, and the beautiful set in the same play.

Here’s the answer, at last, that Dalhousians might make to those hardhearted capitalists who soak outrageous prices for laundry, dry-cleaning,
hair-cuts, “beauty’’ treatments, food,
entertainments, taxis and what have
you.

Folks, its the co-operative movement.
Anyone at St. F. X. can tell you about
it. If all the students got together,
they could hire their own laundrymen,
barbers, butchers and bakers and eliminate—shall we say—the middlemen.

Anyhow, that’s the idea students
have at a lot of American universities.

At the University of North Carolina,
more than 2,000 of the 2,500 undergraduates are members of a cleaning
and pressing co-operative which did a
business of $15,000 in 1984. They
press, clean and deliver suits for 40
cents, against a former price of 75
cents (imagine what we could do
against that price of $1.50).

The North Carolina students own
their own truck, employ their owh
manager, and hire two clerks and six
cleaning experts. They started up
business with a capital of $760 having
been subscribed by $1.00 fees paid by
charter members. Other universities
have co-operative eating clubs, bookstores, cleaning and pressing shops,
barbers and even gasoline stations on
their own campuses.

Meyer’s Studios
PHOTO FINISHING

Special Rates to Students

“

426 Barrington St.

  

Down Memory
Lane
From Our Files.

It hurt our sense aesthetic

To see bloomers on girl acrobatics;

For badminton is certainly platonical

And Authority makes itself comical

When it considers it in light anatomical

So let's give a Hooray for the shorts of

today

And three for what they'll wear to
morrow!

The Dal Gazette a Half Century Ago:
“There is a project on foot to wine
and dine the graduating classes.”’

 

Phone Busy

Students sat on edge by their telephones Tuesday night awaiting election
results. The Gazette office was beseiged with over two hundred and fifty
phone calls. The Gazette takes this
opportunity of thanking the students
who assisted in making this service
possible.

Ode To A Fresh
man

 

I'm glad I’m not a freshman,
Loaded down with books,

All around the campus

He’s drowned with dirty looks.
He tiptoes thru the Libr’y

To be the first one there

But to his great amazement
The book-work room is bare.
He shyly views the lassies
Who wander thru the hall

But when he finds a true-one
She’s just a rugby moll.

I’m glad I’m not a freshman
Who’s razzed where’ere he goes
I’m glad I’m now a senior
Who’s had his ample dose.

—Sourpuss.

The latest Popular Music.

The latest Victor Records.

All Popular Magazines.

All Musical Instruments.

Radios in best makes.

Lending Library of latest
Fiction.

Cards for every occasion.

Attractive Novelties for
Souvenirs.

McDonald Music Co.

393 BARRINGTON ST.

Canada’s Most Beautiful Theatre

Today, Sat. Mon.

LLOYD C. DOUGLAS’
Celebrated Best Seller

“GREEN
LIGHT”’

Starring
ERROL ANITA
FLYNN LOUISE

Tues. Wed. Thur.

‘““GOLD DIGGERS
OF 1937”

and

 

* —— jeer Bade

fm v . fat!

ies

ed ro
oe

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Council Elections
With Apologies To Longfellow

In the Council of the College,
On the Campus at Dalhousie,
Gordon Lea, the chief, the mighty,
He who ruled us for the past year,
In the building known as Forrest,
Stood erect, and called the students,
Called the girls and men together.
Down the long streets, o’er
puddles,
Came the students of the college,
Came the Sigma Chis and Phi Delts
Came the Phi Rhos and the Pi Phis,
‘Came the Alpha Gams and Phi Kap s,
Came the Phi Chis and the Dentists,
Came the Millionaires and Doctors,
All the students drawn together
By the order of the Council,
To the Gym and Forrest Building
Where they all could do their voting.

Tales are told of bribes and fixings,
Of devices used by students;

How frats tried to vote their men in,
Faculties allied against them,

Wildly glaring at each other,

In their faces stern defiance,

In their hearts the feuds of ages.

Candidates for head of Council
Came not from the Arts and Science,
Came from Medicine and Law School,
They are men who went to Mount A
Those who trained at this fine college
Cannot fill that lofty office,

That Bill Cook and Tag Day vied for!

When the result of the polling
Spreads around Dalhousie campus,
And we learn the names of the men
Who will spend our money for us,
Cries of joy and lamentation
Will be heard around the College,

And another Student Council
Take its place to rule and guide us.
lap eee Sea

Manager (to boy applying for post of
office boy)—‘‘Are you fond of work?”’

Boy—‘No, sir.”

Manager—You can start immediately. You don’t tell lies, anyway.”’—
Xaverian Weerty.

———_C¢-—_——_

In modern war there is no victory.
The Allies won the war but the regiments that marched in triumph were
not those men who fought the war.
The men who fought the war were
dead.—Ernest Hemingway.

the

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages

including
Dublin Dry Ginger Ale
Donovan’s Orange Juice
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B 6821

Where Now?

IF IT’S
REFRESHMENT
WE’RE AFTER,
SURE IT’S

The Green Lantern

 

  

   

   
  
  

 
   
  

A Message to College Men--
   
  
   
  

   
   
     
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 

of Canada.

   

  

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a
provision for the future,
the selling of life insurance as a profession, you
would do well to consider the outstanding
sixty-seven year record of The Mutual Life
Communicate with our nearest

Branch Manager or our Home Office.

See eke

ESTABLISHED 1869.
Owned by the Policyholders

HOME OFF ICE—WATERLOO, ONT.

    
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 

or contemplating

 
        
   

+ i ate 4 7

 

saa .
i. Y «=
——

a =< a
> oe 2 tae ly . ‘hae Be ke, “ J y 3
ee a4
iy « t é »

Page Three

    
  

  

‘Great beating | gave you Fred, I’m sifting pretty”’
“Sitting pretty? You’re sitting on my Sweet Caps!”

  
    

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” — Lancet

 

 

 

BIRK’S - 
DRUGS
Special trophies, presentation pieces, college awards-in
CHOCOLATES fact any time anything unusual is required, itis naturally ordered from BIRKS.
FOUNTAIN Designs and prices gladly

submitted.

 

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

MacLeod, Balcom

=) Diamond Merchants
Limited

Barrington St.

 

LL
When You Need
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

SERVICE VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

You get better and

at

HAVE YOUR LEATHER GOODS REPAIRED
by

AELLYS LTD.

At Reasonable Prices

118 GRANVILLE ST.

Established 1876 Phone B-6964

  
   
  
 

WHEN YOU
ARRIVE
A LITTLE
LATE FOR
YOUR DATE
—AND YOU FIND “SOME ONE”
HAS GOT THERE JUST A FEW
MINUTES AHEAD OF YOU — —

YOUR WORRIES WILL QUICKLY
DISAPPEAR IF ‘YOU ———

 

 
  
  


ae
of

Fey,
ak

ih

; ay =e,
<2 eo

al a
- <4 he ae pl Pee

ee Re ae

is

a8

*
rs
1 pt
"

ie

ae,

a: .

 

SPORT RESULTS
FRO EREY

Dal 3—St. F. X.5
: BASKETBALL

Senior—Dal 35—Grads 41

Dal 27—Glace Bay 49

Interm—Dal 55—Liverpool 43
Dal 17—R. c. E. 44

 

| Bay Elected

(Continued from page 1.)

Roland Hurst,last year’s Commerce
representative, has been chosen by the
Council to fill the difticult position of
Freshman Representative. Class executive positions and the News Editorship of the Gazette have been held by
Mr. Hurst.

Gordon Thompson will replace
“Dictator” Barnhill at the helm of the
D. A. A. C. Gordon has had a great deal
executive experience both in his class
and on the D. A. A. C., and no better
man could be found to take over such a
heavy job. Edward Cragg, VicePresident, and Bill MacKay, Secretary
round out a capable slate.

The Glee Club will see a popular
performer guiding its destinies in
Hazen Mitchell Medicine. Mr. Mitchell has also excelled on the football
field. Miss Marion Geldert is the
Vice-President and no one needs an
introduction to this charming Glee
Club performer. Jack Arnell that

Liverpool Loses

The Dalhousie Cubs journeyed to
Liverpool Friday night and there met
the South Shore quintet in an exhibition game of basket-ball. The general
play was fairly even throughout and
the game was only won by Dal in the
last few minutes wheh their superior
conditions and experience enabled them
to outpace their opponents. The final
score was 55-43 but the issue was only
decided by a last minute spurt on Dalhousie’s part that netted them fifteen
points.

The Cubs started off shakily and were
held scoreless while Liverpool ran in
three baskets. Changing their style
of play, the Collegians made up the
difference and the game see-sawed back
and forth until half-time when the
South Shore aggregation was leadings
by a 80-26 score. After the intermision neither team was able to make
much headway until only four minutes
of play were left and Liverpool was
ahead by a slim one-point margin.

popular character actor, is the Business | Dalhousie now put on the pressure and

Manager.

Archie MacKenzie, Gazette Sports
Editor, and Evatt Merchant, popular
law student, have been chosen by the
Council to guide the Gazette's destinies next year.

a JUSTICE

to your clothes

 

 

Keep your figure trim

and smart with

Lg Brat

o matter how expensive your
tailor, no matter how well-cut
your clothes may be—you cannot do
them justice if your waistline is beginning to bulge. Why look untidy
and slipshod when simply by putting on The Bracer you can
have a trim, athletic figure.
The Bracer makes you look
better—feel better, too. It is

i scientifically constructed to
support the stomach muscles.

Ithas a soft yarn, fly front sup
porter. ..no buttons or buckles.

The seams are impregnated with live
rubber and will not loosen or pull out.
This is an exclusive patented feature.

The Bracer is made by Bauer
& Black with the same sanitary care used in making their
‘surgical dressings. It is tailored
to fit with the utmost comfort
and freedom of action. Try The
Bracer today! Look and feel like
anew man.
This Bracer is eola:s in

; Halifax by
SHANE’S JMEN’S SHOP

de 30 Spring Garden Road

swarmed all over their tired opponents,
working out a twelve point margin of
victory. D. Seaman was _ high-scorer
of the match with seventeen points,
while Stech led Dalhousie with sixteen. The Dalhousie players had a
most enjoyable trip and wish to thank
the managers of the Liverpool team and
their various hosts for their kind hospitality: The whole team is loud in their
praise of the entertainment they received while guests in Liverpool and
are deeply appreciative of any kindnesses
done to them,

Dalhousie Line-up—Stech 16, Stewart 10, Kagel 8, Aygrn 10, Mackenzie,
7 bib 4,

Ping-Pong Meet

 

A colossal get-together of the celluloid-smashers will convene in the
Dalhousie gymnasium on March 9th
for all city ping-pongers. All entries
are to be in to Bev Piers or Mr. Stirling
by noon on March 8th. Entry, fee is
25c. It is expected that all loyal pingpongers of the College by the Sea will
turn out to support their Alma Mater's
honour in batting their opponents out
of the table tennis picture.

24 HOUR SERVICE

B7555 B9727

25c

WADE BROS. TAXI

COR. SALTER AND
GRANVILLE STS.

1 BLOCK FROM
BARRINGTON ST.

SHOES!

 

SSS Ss SSS SSS Sse ssh hss ese esses nssensssueummnn

SHOES!

  
 
 

It would hardly be
cricket to call the
elections sport. but
this much is correct
from the results they
appear to be more or
less of a game.

The

spoken.

 

Dictator has

Ed Cragg
the lords of sport for
most sincere

To Gordon Thompson,
and Bill MacKay,
next year we offer our
condolences.

And so the Barnhill regime prepares
to pass on, leaving behind them a
record which should stand as a guiding
light to those who will attempt to carry
on the athletic cause of Dalhousie.

Too bad you missed the DalhousieSt. Francis Xavier hockey final. The
fans are still debating whether or not
the best team won. The Dalhousians

had it all over the team, which defeated
Antigonish Bulldogs by a score of some
in the defensive
minutes to go the
Koretsky

10 goals to 3, department. With

score stood

four

tied at 3 all.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT SAGAS

 

was phenomenal. Ken Beer was tremendous. Eddie Cohn just as smooth
as ever. Tiger Veniot???? and so the
battle went on with Dalhousie eventually fading out of the Intercollegiate
picture.

An insight into the standard of badminton being played at Dalhousie can
readily be seen from the results of the

recent Mount Allison-Dalhousie competition,
Dalhousie, if you are not aware,

finished up in last place in McCurdy
Cup competition, literally
night after night—and yet when they
ran up against a team supposedly of
their own calibre they defeated them
some 23 matches to 1. The moral
here is—If equals met in a league with
equals, the results might be more interesting.

wiped out

Bloody faces, bruised eyes, dislocated
shoulders, smashed hands, and yet the
boxers keep pasting one another
preparation for the boxing trials which
are to come off in the near future.
When??? Don’t ask us. Nobody
knows. Manager Stephen MacNutt
is keeping that a secret, lest some of his
faint hearted.

in

warriors get

 

Election

Results

 

The Gazette presents the election results, poll by poll, and man by man:

Law Comm. Eng. Arts Dent. Med. Total
President:
Gook. .... 72 11 16 92 12 17 220
Days oa ss 2 10 18 127 33 167 357
Vice-Pres. :
Marsh. . 31 15 22 121 os 113 335
Teasdale, . 35 6 10° 87 12 46 196
Glee Club:
Mitchell. . 22 17 19 165 20 153 396
Scott. .. 46 4 14 45 25 30 167
Flinn. .. 16 11 17 97 13 36 190
Geldert. .. 48 10 14 117 29 138 356
Arnell. . 33 10 26 128 10 121 348
Roberts...... 30 11 6 80 13 50 190
Di As Ai C?:
Thompson. ... 40 11 26 128 36 149 390
Dickey. . 26 6 6 27 7 28 100
Corston. .... 43 9 20 77 11 76 286
Crage. 22 8 14 75 33 97 249
Reynolds... 30 9 16 60 28 35 178
MacKay... .. . 35 8 13 87 14 129 286
Faculty Representatives:
Lyall. . 120 Schwartz. ... . 107 CORMIOR i fovtc® 2 obi cr 121
Gragame.. ctw. 88 2 a ee . 96 Arnell. .... 84
Murray.<. -: 88 MeKean. -........184 Nicholson. 11
Pearson... “121 Burchell. . 4 OS Marvin...... 9
Purves: 's. ess. 11 Bgan..... .. 84 Mac Keigan. . 64
Lipton... 21 Cramme,: 3.7. ..... 1 Milner. ... 9
CMO, NS 5. so LEO
MacKenzie.. .... .147
MacLellan... 57

A. PUBLICOVER

2 SHOPS
LORD NELSON HOTEL
and
23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

SHOES!

EVERYBODY WANTS NEW SHOES

We are now showing our new Spring Shoes for both

men and women

Priced from 2.95 to 7.50

 

FIT-RITE SHOE STORE

170 QUINPOOL ROAD

B-8571

 

A. T. Johnson, Prop.

It was nice to see the Shirreff Hall

ski suits getting their annual airing.

If one is to take the local newspaper
for granted its about time Dalhousie
started a school of civic administration.

— <= ee

 

MARTIN’S LTD.

—Diamond Merchants—
GIFT HEADQUARTERS

Spring Garden Road
B-7487

 

‘ dance

Crusaders Win

A weary squad of basketballers returned on Monday morning from their
trip to Cape Breton. Their success is
questionable. They were defeated by
a mighty ‘“Crusaders’’ team in Glace
Bay on Saturday night to the tune of
49-27

Beginning with a strong defence the
long and weary trip to Cape Breton
soon showed its effects when, after
fifteen minutes of the first period was
completed and the score was tied at
fifteen all, Dalhousie Seniors failed utterly from that time on to hold back
the determined surgings of Vey, Lighter,
and Murrant who played a stellar
game for the Glace Bay team,

The half ended with Dalhousie at
the short end of a 26-17 count.

The second half was not productive
of good basketball but the fine playing
of Ed Stewart and Innes McLeod kept
the home town fans on edge. The
former with ten points was high scorer
for Dalhousie, while J. Vey with nineteen led the scoring for the winners.

The trip proved enjoyable however
for those privileged to make it. Perseverence Ideson supplied the team
with some mighty fine fudge for the
return trip, while Duff Stewart and
Dick Hubbard finally travelled east to
realize that Prudence is often the better
part of valour. All in all a good time
was had by all.

—_——_0-——- —

Model League

(Continued from page 1)

The afternoon session, brought on
the carpet an everyday topic—resolved
that Canada in the event of War should
remain strictly neutral regardless of
who the belligerents may be, except in
the case of invasion or the threat of
invasion of Canadian Territory. Heated arguments were far from being the
exception.

The large audience showed its appreciation by repeatedly joining in the
applause.

The Glee Club presentation and
were enjoyed greatly by the
delegation. The quality of dramatics

at Dal was highly spoken of,

Saturday morning at 9.30, a Model
Imperial Conference was held with true
decorum. Wilkie Grant, as Prime
Minister of Great Britain, presented the
problem. The contribution of the
Dominions and colonies toward the
defence of the Empire was greatly
stressed as an urgent necessity. Sitting under different placards, each group
announced the stand of its country in
that regard. Blended with a peculiar
humour, this meeting was undoubtedly
one of the most successful.

Some sixty-five guests and delegates
sat in the Lord Nelson for the closing
item of the agenda. Rev. J. S. Thomp
son was the guest speaker. His address on ‘‘Peace and Youth” was a
climax to the whole ceremonies. Presi
dent Stanley spoke concisely on cer
tain peace and war problems. Chairman Higgins expressed the thanks

to all those who had contributed to the

success of this Model Assembly.

  

     
          
   
 
     
  
 

 
 
 
 
 

CROWN

SPORT SCHEDULE

BASKETBALL

 

 

    

Senior—Dal ws Y. M. C. A.
, Thurs. Mar. 11

Interm—Dal vs St. Andrews
Thurs. Mar. 11
Girls—Dal vs Mount A.
Sat. Mar. 5th
At Sackville

 
 

 

St. F. X. Victors

Dalhousie just missed capturing the
Nova Scotia Intercollegiate hockey
title by about ten minutes last Friday,
when the Tigers dropped a 5-3 decision
to St. Francis Xavier in a thrill packed
game that kept the crowd on their feet
screaming with excitement. The Dalhousians had just unleashed a furious
last period attack that brought them
from behind to tie up the score at 3-3
and it looked as if nothing could stop
them when the break of the game came.
One of the Antigonish players was accidentally hit with a stick and the
game was held up five minutes. When
play resumed all the fire had disappeared from the Tigers, attack and the
Saints broke through for two goals to
win the game.

When the game opened it was evident
that the Dal boys treated the visitors
with great respect but they soon lost
their inferiority complex and from then
on it was a great struggle between two
evenly matched machines.

St. Francis opened the scoring early
in the first period and were never
headed after that. Malenfant was the
marksman. Jack Marshall got that
one back when he scored on Mont’s
perfect pass. St. Francis then went
two up to make the score 3-1, but the
Tigers fought back and tied up the
score on goals by Beer and Graham.
Cohn furnishing both assists.

Phi Kappes Win

Not

sational

 

many years ago the most sen
athletic contests were frays
between rival fraternities. The old
days seem to be returning if a hectic
battle of last Sunday is any criterion.
Worthy stalwarts of Phi Delta Theta
and Phi Kappa Pi clashed in a hockey
game at the Forum from which the
Phi Kapps emerged at the long end of

a 4-2 score. Buckley and DeWolfe
starred for the Coburg Rd. aggrega
tion, and Napier and Dickey shone for
the tea-drinkers.
Phi Kapp— Gunter, .Ballem, Rowley

Stanfield, Archibald, MacNeill, DeWolfe, Baird, Buckley, MacKeigan
Roberts.

Phi Delt—Napier, MacGregor,

Dickie, Bagg, Moss,
low, Chisholm.

McAvity, Bige
 

 

CASINO

Starting Saturday
March 6th

BOBBY BREEN

“RAINBOW ON
THE RIVER”

wth
MAY ROBSON
Charles Butterworth

New Mickey Mouse Cartoon
‘“‘POPULAR SCIENCE”’

in color

““‘News of the Day’’

 

 

More flavour
—yet milder

Bucking.

CIGARETTES

 

  

 
 

Bucking,

“Carer; @

 
     

Pillip
MORRIS 7 ee
Hao

*3rane,
ree SHED oye

~— e

     

    

"Laas

   

B74-36

 

 
