 
   
   

 

aa
_ ae

Bye 5 ie.
ot ‘ a Tae ‘Te

 

ae

ss

>: PDal Suffer

Severe Los

=e

POTTER A. OYLER

= Dalhousie has suffered a
keen loss in the sudden passing of Potter A. Oyler, at
a! Toronto, Sunday, October 4.
One of the: brilliant gradu
 
   
   

i — to tae ine Five: af
-distinguished graduates of

- his untimely demise.

versity he was a leader in the
many activities with which
4 he was associated. A splendid
athlete,—his name will ring
down the ages as the story
of the struggles of the gridiron and rink are recounted,
—he was a member of the
senior football squad and
hockey team for seven years,
honored for his athletic
prowess and fine sportsmanship. During his college
career he was honored, and
fittingly so, with practically
all of the offices open to
students, among which were
Council membership, presidencies of the D. A. A. C.,
Sodales, and of Phi Kappa

Pi.

Not only did he lead his
fellow students in their activities but he also showed
marked ability as a student.

/ He graduated in Commerce
in 1931,and in Law in 1934,
when he was awarded the

 

S
S

 

re

| committee.

Dalhousie, were it not for

‘As a student at the Uni-.

Wright Writes
Sophs’ Defence

ear Editor:

With reference to a criticism which
appeared in the last issue of the Gazette
concerning the regulations
this year, although I consider that the
reference borders the ridiculous,
still I should like to say a few
in their defence.

freshman

on
words

In the first place, at the Students
Forum last year, as head of the Freshmen Initiation Committee I asked
the house if they had any suggestions
whatsoever with regard to the initiation. When no one responded either
openly or privately we took it for
granted that the student body was in
agreement with anything, within reason
of course, that we decided upon. Yet
this year, when the committee has
carried out the initiation to the best of
their own judgment, they meet with
anonymous destructive criticism. More
than this, the criticism is of nothing in
particular. The writer does not name
anything specific of which he does not
approve but everything in general
alleging only the flimsy reason that
it will strain relations.

Does the writer mean by this rélations between the freshmen and the
sophomores? As far as the freshmen
are concerned the _only
| they ‘know as such are those on the
Will the writer deny that
at Dalhousie as soon as the average
freshman enters his second year he
but rarely even notices the new students.
leaving it all to the committee to
‘‘initiate’’ them miore for the sake of
tradition than anything else?

In addition everything that is done
by them is in the spirit of good clean
fun and is expected to be accepted as
such. One need only glance at other
Maritime Universities, or any other
university for that matter, to see how
many more freshman regulations they
have than Dalhousie. But the writer
calls Dalhousie an up-to-date college!

If Mt. A. and Acadia are not in this
class merely because they have more
freshman regulations, then nothing

could be better for student cooperation
and spirit than an increase instead of
an abolition of these as the writer
suggests.

Signed,

Wallace Wright.

Med Students

Name Officers

At the first meeting of the Medical
Society the following officers for the

sophomores

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 9th, 1936

azette

BY THE SEA’”’

Support the

Community

Chest

 

 

»
o

No.

 

 

 

 

The Ball cannot be seen but it is sailing directly through the uprights, Duff Stewart having just kicked

a 50 yard goal.
between the goal posts.

Freshmen are advised that if they look closely enough they will see the ball coming down

The kick inspired the following parody. Co-eds note, Duff is number 15

THE TERRIBLE TIGER

Axemen to right of him,
Axemen to left of him,
Axemen in front of him,
Tackled and thunder’d;
Stormed at with body check
~ Boldly he dashed, by heck!

Into the jaws of Death,
Risking his lovely neck
Weighing two hundred.

 

Council Dance
Great Success

Some 800 students and their friends
packed into the Gymnasium last
Tuesday night for the annual free
Students’ Council Dance. Sweet music
carefully-shaded lights, a happy crowd,
combined, despite very poor food, to
make the best Council dance in many
years. The Gazette Winchell with
his -usual nose for _ sensationalism
grabbed opportunity by the forelock
and interviewed many of the students
attending.

Here are some of their comments:

Professor John Willis: ‘I wish
dances were in the gymnasium.”

Charlie Clarke:—‘‘the best Council
Dance in ten years.”

all

Gordie Lea: ‘“‘We hope to have more
of them during the year.”

Fran Martell: ‘It’s too dark.”

Harold the janitor: “It’s good
dance, but who gets all the graft?’’

a

Flashed his white teeth so bare,
Flashed as he turned in air,
Shaking his golden hair,

All the girls wonder’d:

Plunged through the Wolfville folk,
Right through the line he broke

Al the crowd th under’d.

Law Society To

When can his glory fade?

O those grand kicks he made!
He showed he knew his stuff,
Knew there were none like Duff!
Honour the way he ran,
Showing his summer tan,

He is our wonder man

Covered with glory!

Ruggers Seek

Honour Memory’) Win Over Reds

It was decided at the Law Society
meeting last Tuesday noon to establish
some sort of suitable memorial for
Potter Oyler, preferably the form
of perpetual scholarship. A
mittee composed of Hungerford, Arab,
and Fisher, look
into the possible methods of effecting
this intention to
the Society.

in
a com
was appointed to

and to report back

At the same meeting the following
were appointed interfaculty managers

for law: Softball—Ferguson; Basketball—Jno. MacDonald; Track—Toar
Baird; Hockey—Conner. Pat Gunter

was also appointed a committee of one
to go to Amherst at his own expense
to interview Mr. Shipley of the A. A.

U. of C. re the amateur standing of
Layton Ferguson.
The meeting was remarkable for

the small number of members present;
such low attendance speaks ill of law

the season when it

and training they
avenge
with
two

a victory

The Dalhousie football team will

try for its second straight triumph of

Wander
meets the

ers at Redland Saturday afternoon,
The Tigers showed convincing form
in their first game of the year and gave
a clear indication of what they. can
do to a redoubtable squad such as
Acadia with only a week’s practise as

preparation.
This time with the added experience

will be out there to

victoryless series
lt
Dal

and

last year’s
the

years

Wanderers. has been

now since has

Club
has been scored at
let’s all

won
three since
Studley.
full

from the team,

be out there in force

to give the Tigers a little support.

the first

a good margin is no indication

Just because they've

game by

won

that they can run through the schedule
without the Student
Everybody out then,and along

the backing of

body.

the

XEMEN FALL BEFORE REJUVENATED TIGERS 11- 11-3

Dal Siaashes

Acadia Jinx

Playing
the Dal
an easy

behind a
Tigers last
11-3 Acadia’s
the "Sl.
The game afforded ample illustration
of “Big Jim” MacDonald's
protest concerning the league schedule,

powerful scrum

Saturday gained
victory over

Axemen for first time since

Coach

for although the weatherman provided
a perfect day the players easily proved
his point by their sloppy ball-handling
and lack of teamwork.
the
a
of
of
have

However, Tigers seem on the
be
those

acquisition

whole to team

The

players

much-improved
over recent
several

instilled

years.
new

that
noticeably

seems to much
needed punch absent
in the past.

be

so
Too much credit cannot
to Prof. Fletcher,
scrum, It
the scrum their
that was
feature of the game. |

Duff Stewart, the
popular the measured
up to pre-season expectations and his
penalty-kick from a_ difficult angle
in the second period was undoubtedly
highlight of the game. Doug
Crease, veteran flying-quarter, proved
the value of short kicks with fast
following-up, making long gains ~by
this method.

Don Archibald, Acadia flying-quarter
paved the way for the one and only
score of the Axemen after five minutes
of play by intercepting Tiger Veniot’s
pass in Dalhousie territory and carrying it to the Tigers’ 5 yard line where
he was brought down by Hal Connor,
Tiger fullback. From the resulting
scrum Beveridge plunged over near
the corner to open the scoring.

Play see-sawed back and forth
the next 10 minutes, moving
Acadia territory with the Dal
gaining much ground by dribbling and
for the tying try. This
the Acadia fullback, in
trying to clear after a penalty by Doug
that fell short, had his kick
nicely Jack Buckley, and
Jimmy Mont grabbed the loose ball to
Dal. Captain Pat Gunter
converted
a 5-3 lead.

Play was fairly even throughout the

extended coach

of the Tiger was the work

of in heeling and

dribbling one redeeming

perhaps most

of newconiers,

for
into
scrum

making way
came when
Crease
blocked by
register for

easily to give the Tigers

second half with the Tigers having a
edge owing their superior
kicking and their scrum. At the
halfway mark Stewart increased their
margin to five points with a beautifully
kicked penalty and Gunter complete
the

slight to

scoring with another penalty

from directly in front of the posts.
The lineups:—

 

nat colsiad Honear at Dal. year were elected: Pres. Carl Trask,| Tobias Beeber: “Everybody’s intoxi- | Student interest in their own affairs.) With the band and the noisy Freshmen Acadia—Bayne, fullback; Archibald,

housie, The Malcolm Honour Vice-Pres,—George Murphy, Secretary | cated with joy.” give the Wanderer’s supporters an| Palcom, Feindel, Willis, Shaw, three
Award. —Clarence Gosse, Treasurer—Bill Em- Marian Little and Alan Bigelow: pic bbe pete xh idea of what Dalhousie can produce} Watters; Eaton, Beveridge, halves;

Following his graduation bree, Football Manager—Carl Stod-| «We'tike it very much.” in the way of organized College spirit!} C!s, Demmings, Allaby, Edwards,
he continued his studies in dard, Track Manager—Abe Epstein. kW ied iv MacDonald, Ellsworth, MacCausland.
; ; ack Worrell: censored = heey ; F

: : A highly satisfactory report on the J ( ) ra ercer 9 Dalhousie—Connor, fullback: Stew
England, returning to this ren y Fel ie Aa cs ens oO Rt ?
country to take a position Medical Journal was given by the Be 2s Fe lok gs ae Wi T j | Ride ’er Cowboy. art, Mont, Buckley, Crease, . Corston
Bait D , Prof ., | there should have been more advertis In rlais > fic risa ctoras Vent i cy oes
with the Canada Permanent editors. Dean Grant and Prof. Bean |‘ ae ad three-quarters; Veniot, Dougan, halves;

Trust Company. ; addressed the meeting which was!'"8 of it. Edward Arab (leader) and Isaac Johnny Weldoa rode a cow at sur-| Gunter, Stevenson, Cooke, Storey,

Bultianeia “bows. tier head then concluded with the serving of A freshman: “It is all right, but Mercer | rexe ‘es chee Oe AEs ctiied veying camp and broke his nose.| !deson, Mercer, DeWolfe.
> < Tat my": ”? ae, : ; - Ss © yx ‘ é ‘ Tae ; e :
_ in sorrow for this fine young refreshments. Wally Wright is here. rials, Wednesday night to meet the| He is gradually recovering from this a ree _
man and in doing so extends —__9—___. Roly Hurst: ‘‘There should be one aioe debating team, Oct. 20, at the} severe injury. Returns to Classes
; dance a fortnight.” ee ae ie et “hs
= ae ye to the Ae eit ad a ebed Yon tees § a : The subject for debate will be: Friends of Duncan John Chisholm
amily of t e ate otter A. Gmteties der one day). more’ than Don McGregor: “It’s O. K., but Resolved that this house would rather eet he COMMUNITY curser! oO 2nd year Law will be glad to hear
‘ sj : Pie ie ‘ upport the MMUNITY CHEST ; *

Oyler. Requiescat in Pace. 90.00 ld I aised § he C Betty has to be in by twelve. live in Moscow than in Berlin. 4 Sg awe ac that he is again attending classes
$ ' coule JE ~Taisec or the om- A ‘ " Judges at the trials were Profs, CAMI AIGN next week Buy al red ee ” é ' pee
munity Chest. Anyway, a good time was had by all.| Curtis. Willis. and Maxwell feather! 1 | D. J.” was indisposed the past few

weeks,

 

 

 

_|LAW BALL OCT. 29th, NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL, 9 p.m.

Tickets $3.50 per Couple

TICKETS ON SALE AT UNIVERSITY STORE

"

Jerry Naugler’s Orchestra

 

Novelties

- Surprises

 
       

FRESHMEN, ATHLETICS, AND

COLLEGE SPIRIT

 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 

; “Tt is not for Knowledge that we come

GAZETTE STAFF. to College,

<=, a Ne. s as But to raise Hell all the year.”

one tS ee - Editors.
ae _ J. D. CREASE, B.A. = I. M. MacKEIGAN, M.A.| This exaggerated concept of Unieee Oph Beat Ph. B2436 versity life may be only the words
i. nS ‘ Associates, of an old College song, but nevertheue = _ John Fisher Edward Arab, B.A. less they do suggest that a great part
_ Edward S. MacLatchy, B.A. Earle Fraser, B.A. of the extra-curricular activity of
Elizabeth Pearson P. S. Macnutt student life centers round social interGeo. H. Murphy, B.A. L. A. Kitz course in its various phases. It is
eas See ; good that it is so. Unhappy are those
News Editor. Sports Editor. in the medical faculty, doomed by
ROLAND HURST S. EDGAR STEWART | their professors to at least five years
Ph. B38427 Ph. B5580 of social starvation, for it is their lot
re ed Associates. . to serve as lookers on. But that is

Elwyn Hughes L. A. Landreville, B.A. another story.

Massa oe MarKansie Roy Gold The criticism is abroad that college
pi .% a beccigak Beles Montiger. life today allows a psprepertiovalr
Business Manager. part of its time to social activities.
GORDON K. DALEY R. L. ARMSTRONG Be that as it may, the undergraduate

oe ~ Ph. B5700 Phone B 5700 of today is not the scholar of 50 years
wi Proof Editor ago. It is agreed that modern society

CHARLES ROBERTS
eee ewww am

- ALUMNI AND STUDENT “BUCK-PASSING”

Another letter from one Mr. Shucks was submitted to us
this week and appears elsewhere in this issue. We cannot agree
with the bulk of his letter; if he will look up the facts he will find
that he is wrong in attributing so much importance to the fee
question—it is not cheaper to take an Arts or Science course at

Acadia or Mount Allison.
In one point, however,

is more complex. The Freshman entering college encounters a bewildering
maze of societies, fraternities and
faculties vieing with one another to
outdo the efforts of the others. He
needs guidance; and it is readily provided, but what kind!

Now that the hazing of initiation
has given place to the more appropriate introduction, he soon becomes
engulfed within the whirling stream

—

a

we heartily endorse his views—Dal
a housie needs more up-to-date advertising methods. But the]of events. One day he analyses that
| —_ fault is not so much with the University administration as with | elated emotion that has been growing
| ——-—s« the alumni and students. If they would spend less energy ©N|for the past few days, and he writes
| ~—s' words and more on action, if they would spend less time pointing | home of the great college spirit.

am out how much, in their opinion, Dalhousie has deteriorated since] This emotion is stimulated and
ae the mythical “good old days”’ and more in improving the situation, | nurtured by ‘the appearance of rugby
mae ss all problems would disappear. : football uniforms until it becomes a
re’ What do we suggest? Let Dalhousie follow the example | mighty and passionate force; difficult
Be ira) 2) of other universities! Let us organize alumni associations 1M /to restrain, and capable of warping the
bi every town and city of the Maritimes, associations pledged to! outlook of even the sanest.
©  gell Dalhousie to prospective students. - Surely Dalhousie 's abummi|- A¢ school he has ‘been taught that
: are as numerous, as distinguished, and as influential as those of| games are good for all round develop| —_—__ the small colleges we affect to despise. Let them prove it. |_| ment, They keep one fit. Through
| —~—~—s Let each student similarly pledge himself to Dalhousie’s|ihem one leaths how to lose. Friend| support. Presumedly he is attending Dalhousie at present hesbehigatwade snd sttencttiensd on the

aoe cause he really believes, no matter what he may at times say,| football field are worth while. Apart

as _ that Dalhousie has something to offer which no other college has. |from this there is or should be an hour
‘i aeae . We suggest nothing shameful. Dalhousie should not stoop} of glorious fun and thrills aplenty

aay ; to “athlet > St larships’’ or other dubious inducements. All| for the XV selected for the afternoon's
| ‘Cae is re nired Tic iency. If the alumni and Governors would | encounter. In addition there exists

same thoughtful and effective methods in the pursuit
‘well-being as they do in their own business, there
be rms to weather. Let the proud parents of young

efuls be infor ed of the advantages of Dalhousie. That's
»ask. Alumni, present and future—give Dalhousie a chance:
es E a

the pleasure of visiting other clubs,
and of being entertained away. Again
at school he has learned that he is the
host of the visiting team. He derives
pleasure from entertaining his adversary, before the game, during the
game, and alter.

With these, the traditions of pure
sport and athletics down through the
centuries, and with youthful idealism,
the Freshman comes tocollege; there in
his hours of recreation to seek participation,

But see how college spirit blasts the

= er:

er G2.) a: y= COOPERATION

+The Gazette earnestly solicits the whole-hearted support of
-———Ss the various societies on the campus in an endeavour to bring to
_—s- the student -body a really live publication worthy of its hallowed
Ae predecessors. )
oe - Team-work is the foundation of success and if the student
-————s (body will not reciprocate the result will be nothing short of chaos.

: 3

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

We have been receiving complaints from the different societies
that they have not been getting adequate advance publicity. _
We might remind the officials of the above-mentioned societies
that the Gazette is only too willing to aid in that respect, but
first of all it must be brought to our attention.
It would greatly aid all concerned if contact men were appointed to inform the Gazette of their doings.
Let’s have that cooperation.

OUR EDITORIAL POLICY

We had hoped to avoid making any editorial confession of
faith this year. The statement of a policy in an enterprise such
as ours is a vain venture at best—vain because the execution of
that policy depends upon so many factors beyond the complete
control of those formulating it.

Nevertheless, some of the terse comments upon our efforts
seem to require some answer. These comments have been from
two very different types of readers. There are those who want
the Gazette to be a tabloid, Winchellian sort of Dalhousie “Ballyhoo”, and there are those who want it to be merely the scholarly
organ of student “literary efforts’. We fear that we must disappoint both types.

The Gazette should not be primarily either a news organ or
a learned review. At the risk of being trite, we say that the
Gazette’s functions are two—+to act as a glorified bulletin board
for student activities and to serve as an activity in itself for those
who work for it. We shall support all efforts to improve the opportunities at Dalhousie for obtaining a fine education in the
fullest sense, and to draw to the attention of students, present
and future, the facilities already available. In this connection
we hope to print a series of articles through the year which will
aim to make the student realize more fully that he is attending
a university with past record, present reputation, and future
prospects which are unsurpassed.

Lastly, remember that the Gazette is an organ for the expression
of student opinion—on any subject, including the Gazette itself.
Remember also that many articles which appear to you poor,
would be gladly shelved were you to overcome your ill-founded
_ reticence and give us something better. Freedom of the press
is a Gazette prerogative; therefore, in writing to us say what you
Be—bat remember that a man may say what he likes, but to
say certain things is not to think.

THE BAND

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 

a = 2
7 . *r
Hi
; al
CL =
a beng
¥

*

»

hopes and ideals of youth With what
shame and chagrin he broadcasts his
desire to BEAT ACADIA. A host
to a visiting rival? Let us suppose
that Acadia have a stronger XV.
What then? The better team wins,
deservedly. For 80 minutes on a
glorious Autumn afternoon his soul
is in agony lest his team lose. Gone
are the thrills of run, tackle, kick,
goal and try, always present in abundance for the weakest team against
the strongest foe.

Instead bitterness and disillusion,
Poor Freshman when college spirit
thus violates his soul.

Dalhousie is not distinctive from
other Universities in this regard.
I recall with shame being engaged in
a match with U. N. B. at Wolfville.
The whole town was placarded with
BEAT U. Ne B. None of us could
truthfully have enjoyed the game,
and the overwhelming sorrow of defeat
afterward remains now as a disgusting
reminder of the travesty wrought by
the wrong kind of college spirit.

Each of the undergraduate body
and the supporters of Dalhousie wants
his team to win, yes, but greater by
far, each of us desires to see good football, played in the proper spirit, and
the better team win.

Let us, in fairness alike to sport,
college spirit, and the Freshman, have

no more of this BEAT ACADIA
Hitlerism.

Fs IN.
Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax,

At the meeting of students called

ae It just goes to prove that it can be done. We are referring|by the President last week, he told
to the nattilydressed Dal band which made its initial appearance |the assembly that
of the season Saturday to aid in Dal’s great victory over| weathered all storms and is now

Dalhousie has

a. Too much cannot be said for the backers and |players|tosily situated. This can hardly be

fae of the band for the splendid way they went about their business. |so when the fees in all faculties have

   
  

_a big day tomorrow, so let’s see everyone at Redland.
‘ ae cy “ 3 , f
q ra

a“

a a 
ee hi ow

oe . ps

We ae tle ue —

ee: =
J a “F i ‘7

* a * he fe

o z “ge ee 7 r , fe 4 - *

oo , ae F os
i ‘Sel pur a i

: ee, 3 7

ee a A. | Sees Set ek wh *

ry oe . os !

. . * ae ct < P

___ A spirit of optimism is in the air—plans are in formation for] been raised again this year. Surely

(Contiaued on page 4)

The European Enigma

President Stanley, in his annual

address to the students stressed the

importance of a thorough study of
the European situation and the debacle

of the League of Nations. From
hearsay evidence, it is difficult to
understand the true significance of

the President’s exhortations; whether
he meant that the student should
beware of the subversive forces that
are shaking Europe and_ spreading
to the rest of the world, or whether
one should acquaint himself with the
complex political structures that have
gripped this continent.

A glance at the map of Europe
today will soon show the student what
a difficult assignment the President
has given. Europe is an armed camp
in which fearless dictators play the
role of chiefs. The League of Nations
around which a new and better Europe
was to be built has struggled against
adversity. Today, it is the butt of an
Italian dictator who proved it’s
weakness to the world. It presents
the anomolous situation of allowing
a conquered state to sit in the Assembly, while only a few weeks before
that same League lifted sanctions
against the aggressor which brought
about Ethiopia’s downfall. An obvious
inconsistency, but what was the League
to do? If the League refused, it
would have admitted failure and lost
the support of the smaller powers.
To permit her to remain would be
tantamount to recognition of Ethiopia’s
sovereignity, and invite the consequent
disapproval of Mussolini. With the
League already weakened by the
absence of some of the World’s greatest
powers, the United States, Germany,
and Japan, it was a strong temptation
to encourage Italian goodwill. What
a riddle this is!

Pledges, national honor, international
comity and the status quo mean little
to Europe’s madmen. Mussolini damns
eternal peace as insulting to the nobleness of the Italian people. Hitler,
too, instead of seeking conciliatory
measures openly repudiated the Treaty
of Versailles. Some time later he
broke the solemn pledges of Locarno
by marching his troops into the hitherto
demilitarized Rhineland, He shouts
defiance to Russia, and says he would
like to have the Urals and the riches
of the Ukraine, He bullies the Jews
and suppresses freedom.

The German Minister of Economics,
Herr Schacht, is sent abroad to arrange
commercial and financial relations with
the smaller European nations, But
look at the methods. All purchases
of foreign goods, and they are large,
are on-a credit basis. When collection
time comes the smaller nations can’t
realize on them, and they are forced’
to take their claims in the form of
goods, Thus the Third Reich can
dispose of her surplus products and
develop the great munitions industry.

But there is more behind it than
meets the eye. This policy coupled
with Nazi propaganda abroad is designed to pave the way for the realization of a beautiful dream—*‘Mitteleuropa”. That dream originated more
than two decades ago and once was
nearly fulfilled. But the Great War
in attempting to expedite it really
killed it. Hitler seems to envisage
it once more in his book ‘‘Mein Kampf”’.
What is this dream? It envisaged a
great German Empire whose pelitical
and commercial tentacles should stretch
from the Baltic through middle Europe
to the Bosphorus and thence to Bagdad.
Such a Germany would dominate
Europe, then Asia and with her military
might perhaps, even the world. How
far has Hitler moved in this direction?
Herr Schacht by a stroke of financial
legerdemain has forced Yugoslavia
into the German economic camp.
The logical sequence to economic
penetration is political control.

French in Rumania has
weakened. Czechoslovakia is left with
Nazi sympathizers on both _ sides.
It is feared that Czechoslovakia will be
the next to be forced into the German
fold. If she doesn’t, the spectre. of
Nazi invasion will haunt her, Already Nazi propaganda is at work
in this peaceful little democratic
country.

The story of Poland is parallel to
that of Czechoslovakia. She too was
a product of Versailles and French
influence. Despite recent overtures
to France, Poland has lost much of
her French support. Not that she
dislikes France, but, that she fears
Germany. With Germany on _ one
side, and Russia on the other, Poland

(Continued on page 4)

control

October, 9th., 1986

 

Something to Think About

When the Communist party begins
to solicit contributions for their cause,
we suggest that the first people they
should approach are the following:
Adolf Hitler, William Randolph Hearst,
the Republican party of the United
States, the Spanish rebels, the governments of Austria, Portugal, Poland
and Japan, The Reds could argue
that each and every of the above

mentioned have been the greatest
beneficiaries of communism, The
party delegates could point out in

turn to Hitler that the dangling of
the communist “bogey man’’ before
the German people has contributed

almost as much as the Treaty of
Versailles to the attainment of his
present position; to the rulers of

Germany, Austria, Poland and Portugal that under the guise of the communist menace they have been enabled
to abolish fundamental civil rights
of the individual, to maintain their
control by dictatorship based on
force, to prevent criticism of their
rule by summarily sentencing any
liberal who dares protest against
their usurption, to a concentration
camp as a “communistic traitor’
unworthy of the right of trial or the
right to express his opinion; to William
Randolph Hearst that ~the small and
powerless Communist Party of the
United States has furnished his reporters with the flimsy material for the
sensational stories of ‘Control of
the U. S. from Moscow” and enabled
his papers in maintaining their circulation among their readers, those ‘100%
red blooded American’’ morons; to
the Republicans that they have been
enabled to summarily dismiss all the
progressive legislation, every humanitarian principle of the New Deal as
radicalism.

Nero burned Rome safe in the
knowledge that he could blame it on
the Christians.
age how many thousands of Romes
have burned, how many civil liberties
and rights have been abolished, how
much human misery and destitution
have been allowed to continue without
amelioration, how much persecution
has been perpetrated, all because
those who have most to gain from it
can escape retribution by the simple
expedient of shouting ‘‘communist’’.

In our own day and

There is a saying among the Jews in
Palestine that there are no more birds
in the Holy Land. They say they
have all been killed by the British
soldiers firing their guns in the air to
disperse the Arabs. Thus in _ this
cryptic manner do the Jews protest
against the British failure to rigorously
enforce order in the Palestine Mandate.
They have politely reminded England
that her first obligation as a mandatory
power is to protect minorities from

On the other hand the Arabs have
been pressing what can reasonably
be considered their just demands by
the only means open to them—tiots.
They protest against Jewish immigration on the ground that the continued
infiltration of these foreigners from
Germany and Poland will drive the
Arabs out of their own land. They
point out that the consideration for
their support of England against
Turkey during the Great War was
the British promise of a Pan-Arabic
state which was to include Jerusalem.
The Jews however remind England of
the Balfour Declaration made
return of Jewish support during the
war.

Thus the double faced policy forced
on England by the extreme wartime
danger in the East has placed her in
an embarrassing dilemma. To industrial depression, violent nationalism
leading to the imminence of war, the
Palestine riots can be included as an
added toll of the aftermath of the
Great War.

in

For the past few months the capitals
of the great European nations have
reverberated with threats and utterances of war. Mussolini proudly announces that Italy can mobilize
8,000,000 men. Hitler speaks of the
restored might and the glory of the
new German army. Vorshiloff assures
the Russian people that the Red army
is equipped and ready to repel the
attacks of the capitalist nations. With
each oratorical blast of military might
the press of the world forsee dire
possibilities for the future. Our suggestion however is that the greatest
indication of peace is that all the
nations are talking war, Our opinion
is that the great dictators are actuated
by the same psychological impulse
that causes schoolboys who are afraid
of being beaten by their comrades
to boast about their pugnastic ability
in order to discourage their would be
assailants. Similarly the great leaders,
knowing their countries cannot stand
another war, boastfully display their
military might to discourage would be
invaders. It is only reasonable to
suppose that a nation which is. deliberately preparing for war will,do so
silently so as to take their enemies
by surprise. Thus. no country professes its peaceful intentions as profusely as Japan, the only country actually
making war at the present time.

“The doctor should exempt me
from any stunts—I have a bad case
of dandruff.”

“Oh, I know how to handle it; I
can drink it or leave it alone.”’

racial persecution.

 

Formal
Evening

Wear - -- 
Class Parties and Frat Dances are getting underway—

Are you prepared for them?

When you can buya Three Piece Tuxedo for as low as

$25.00

there is no reason for missing all the fun.
The accessories to match are very reasonably priced.
entation geeie a ee Cea.

If you have long craved a suit of Tails now is the time
to have your wish granted. We are featuring a hand

tailored suit complete with white vest at a new low

price.

 

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

 

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO STUDENTS.

BES RIE EE EL TLD ADE EEE.

a“

 
Pertil rent Patter

rs
a a

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  

At this time the various fraternities
the campus are rushing prospec‘members. For a few hectic
cs the new man is invited here
1 there and told ever so often what
fine fellow he is. Soon he announces
intention of joining one fraternity,
sually the one which has monopolized
his time the most during the rushing
period. And after the fun comes
deluge. True he now has the
perience of being ‘‘in’’ on fraternity
a pusiniess. But as the weeks roll on
how often he finds that he has not
joined the fraternity where he is most
nape to make friends.
A few of the older men are more
mL ‘canny and refuse to answer any bid
* ‘until they have definitely begun to
“s - adjust themselves to new college
oC * conditions. But why are these few
a as appy cases the exception and not the
py rule? Fraternities have much to offer
a certain type of college student but
eg “any, man who is not worth waiting
_ six weeks for is no asset to any frater_ nity. The present system of competitive and often rather subtle rushing
is conducive neither to the pledging
of the proper type of chap nor to
-— buiaing up of the prestige of the
Re _ individual fraternities, Girls’ fraterme - nities have paved the way on this
= no ¥ _ campus for a little more organization
. _ among the different local chapters
2 _ with considerable success. While there
eg no need to wait a year in the case
of men’s fraternities, surely some
_ dates can be set at least four weeks
after the opening of the various
faculties before which no fraternity
will pledge a new man. So here's
_ to the use of a little more co-operative
_ intelligence in rushing and the con_ sequent raising of the prestige of
fraternities.

So the Dalhousie spirit has come
back. It has—if by ‘come back”
one means comfortably sitting down
_ and razzing at the cheer leaders
instead of helping them while the
new band swings into action, or
_ gazing dumbly while Dal beats Acadia
_ for the first time in five years on its
thal field. But if that is the Dalhousie
pirit—l’ ll take vanilla

ar, a Ceca

Have you~ “yellow fever” yet? If
i the directions are simple. Walk

 

es we're decantiy). Then
‘or a waste-basket to plave the
ed slip in. There won't be one.
g hard to keep your temper
- for some place—any place —to
ut that yellow paper. There won't
e any place. In great anger stuff
the paper in your pocket. Repeat
five times, when you will finally get
_ a book—and five slips of paper. But
_-you’ll be surprised at the number of
_ times these yellow scraps will embarrass
you. Especially when you try to
pawn one off for a dollar bill without
eonne. And that is ‘“‘yellow fever”’

oF
oe

os But something is happening at

Dalhousie. Those of you older stu"dents who hayen’t done so yet take
a look in the library. Or ask your
friends what they are doing with their
mere time. Lectures have only been
under way a little over a week at
© Studley, but already a_ surprising
number have begun to “buckle down”’.
It looks as though we’re off to a great
, start—but as the after-dinner speaker
said, anxiously looking at his frayed
ae _ Suspender just before he arose, “How
i long will it last?”

or contemplating

Life of Canada.

Home Office.

iy «

. ata, di

ee a i

af _ \¢ i Zs
A = = i ee en ts Lee is
| ro At gt ve oh _ =

e eit. 7a = “<r

activities at Studley was so pronounced,

Pe t asic us|

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Three ~

 

Introducing to You - 
John Fisher requires no introduction
except to the freshmen, and not even
to them if they live anywhere on
Canadian soil between Toronto and
the far East (Cape Breton); fcr his
voice, politically speaking, has not becn
confined within the walls of Dalhousie

University and socially speaking has

reached as far west as Toronto.

However, it was within our college
walls that we knew him for years as
the annual representative of the Freshmen on the Students’ Council; a
students’ organizer and a constructive
critic of student Government at Dalhousie University.

His wide-spread interest in all student

that he was soon recognized by the
students as the ideal pilot to lead
incoming students through a sea of
bewilderment and make their debut
happy and informative.

Even during his first two years in
the law school, where he was already
saddled with vicarious liability, he
was still acclaimed freshmen representative, whether he liked it or not.

And now having passed the heyday
of his life as a single student and entered
into the great abyss of wedded bliss,
he has extra-vicarious liabilities imposed
upon him by the very profession he
proposes to pursue.

John is in his final year law and
ready with wise and willing counsel
for any who wish to approach him.

—_ ote

 

JOHN FISHER

 

John came to us as a Commerce
student from the lumbering wilds of
New Brunswick. He will leave us
next year as a law student to embark
upon the high seas of life; but he will
not go alone; his adventures will be
shared by Mrs. Fisher, a _ student
from the University of Toronto.
Here’s luck, Mr. and Mrs. John, you
have our best wishes,

 

 

 

The Studley Moscow or Berlin

Story

Last week we offered the initiation
committee some constructive criticism.
We have heard rumours that Wally
was excessively peeved at the idea
that anyone should dare to question
his rulings. However we can assure
him that our remarks were in an
entirely friendly spirit. This week
we feel far from friendly, and for
very good reason.

A certain freshman with journalistic
tendencies came to one of the Gazette
editors and asked for some assignments.
He -was forthwith told to cover the
Dal-Acadia Intermediate football game.
| Now. the freshmen had been instructed
to ‘assemble on the campus some time
before the senior game started, so that
they could march around the field
with the band. Our particular freshman explained the situation to Boss
Wallace, and asked for leave of absence
so that he could watch the Intermediates in action. For some inexplicable
reason this permission was denied.

We may be wrong, but we were
under the impression that freshmen
were to be encouraged in every possible
way to take part in extra-curricular
activities. Wally the Great’s idea
seems to be to hamper them. Just

where he imagines he will get, we fail

to understand. The whole incident
seems to us to be a demonstration
of the petty use of an unnecessary

power.

We noticed with disapproval that
the Dal girls basketball team played
an exhibition game on the Capitol
stage last Friday night. Just who
was the originator of this brilliant
scheme we are unable to inform you,
but to us it smacks of cheap publicity.
We wonder that the team consented
to be a part of a mad burlesque of
this sort. We understand that it was
unfavourably received. May we con
A Message to College Men

Whether buying a life insurance
policy as a provision for the future,

the selling of life .

insurance as a profession, you would
do well to consider the outstanding
sixty-four year record of The Mutual
Communicate with
our nearest Branch Manager or our

| Mutual Life Assurance Company

AS OF CANADA.
-- HOME OFFICE—-WATERLOO, ONT.
ESTABLISHED 1869.

Undoubtedly this dilemma has puzzled you many times and may still
be one of those brain-teasers that
remains unsolved until someone makes
up your mind. At the Dal gymnasium
on October 20th, a debating team
drawn from Edinburgh University and
the University of London will uphold
that you should prefer to live in
Moscow!

The debaters are Malcolm MacEwen,
selected by the National Union of
Scottish Students and Bernard Ungerson, nominated by the National Union
of Students of England and Wales.
They sail from Liverpool and land at
St. John on the 14th. They © will
proceed to Halifax on the 19th and
for the following six weeks will face

a barrage of teas, debates, dinners,
luncheons, theatre parties and bun
fight by which time they will be

prepared to return to the Old Land
knowing that Canada isa fine Country.
Dal. is fortunate in being one of
the first to receive the British Team.
Much could be written about the
visits of previous teams here and
their visit promises to be the highlight
of this year’s debating programme.
But such a “down to earth
alone should be the drawing card for
a full attendance of the student body
So, check-off October 20th; it’s a date.

topic

Halifax
of taste.

gratulate the movie public

on its display

This lad Egbert certainly seems to
be asking for it. As we recall it, the
Egbert who contributed to the columns
of the '33 Gazette was a gentlemanly
scholar who used only the best of
English, and wrote in perfect taste.
But it appears that time and tide
take their toll. Egbert has decidedly
degenerated. His flawless style has
been corrupted, the years have dulled
his sparkling wit. -In short, to use
his own lingo, the "36 edition of Egbert
is lousy. Never since that Coed from
Shirreff Hall contributed to this sheet
have we seen a more vulgar display

of misdirected , humour, than was
contained in the opening paragraph
of his column last week. And in

defense of Merle it is only fair to give
her credit for her adequate knowledge
of elementary English grammar. To
you, Egbert, we say, arise and go forth—
indeed so far forth that never again
will your illiterate babblings caluminate the noble pages of this, our hallowed
Gazette.

is a well-known

It fact that Dal
girls, particularly those in  Shirreff
Hall, are a fickle bunch. Of course

us lads have no delusions about ourselves. We realize that the Coeds
are merely making the best of a bad
situation, and that we are really being
favoured in that we are allowed to
spend our money on them. However
these facts notwithstanding, it seemed
a bit raw to us, that as soon as Acadia
hit town, a couple of the more prominent Shirreff Hallers should drop all
proposed dates in order to journey
about with a pair of “Axemen. Insult
to injury, so to speak!

Knock! Knock!!

For the past several
monotonous regularity Dalhousians
have been asked the question ‘ What
is Wrong with Dalhousje.’’ This yea
has proved no exception; and we are already threatened with an epidemic of
the same sort. In most cases, however, the disease or would be disease
seems to be preferable to the cure.

The goodly number of students who
turned out Saturday afternoon at Studley should wipe out the erroneous belie!
tuat Walhousians lend ‘their
support to their football team in the
right manner. There were
of discourtesy on the part of the student spectators nor was the “rah rah’
overdone. Inshort, the true Dalhousie
spirit was shown by loyally cheering
their teams and in being courteous ana
reasonable in their attitude towaras the
losing team and its supporters, both
on and off the field.

The spirit of co-operation, of give
and take, with the accent on give, is
the proper spirit for a University, all
will agree. But can this truly exist
this side of Utopia? However, there
are unmistakeable signs in the world
at large today manifested openly both
in governmental legislation and in the
various co-operative movements, which
would suggest that the trend is towards
that ideal at least. In my mind Dalhousie has been very fortunate in the
personnel of its faculty without exception through the years. They have
laid wisely and well the foundations of
our great institution as a seat of learning. Some of us, young perhaps in
ways of management, have not seen eye
to eye with the authorities on many
occasions, but we have trusted in their
wisdom and in most cases that trust
has been justified. Let us remember
the bare words of Burke, when he s
‘‘There is often more truth in institutions than in men.”’ We believe that
Dalhousie is giving us the best she
possibly can, are we taking advantage
of it, while at the same time being fair
to the University and ourselves?

Disarmament seems to be a thing of
the past, Every nation is arming;
yes, we admit, no one intends to attack another. Even Great Britain
exemplary advocate of disarmament
has joined the procession as a measure
of security. Hitler and Mussolini
have killed the prestige of the League of
Nations and have started the world
on its mad rush. Whither bound!
that is the question. There seems but
two courses one of which must be taken
finally. The one is to keep blindly
on kill off the surplus population and
perhaps irreparably destroy civilization;
the other lies in common sense emerging triumphant and the ushering in of
an era of international co-operation in
its truest sense. We all hope for the
latter and somehow believe that it will
prevail, but for the present are forced
to admit that the actions of the
speak so loudly that the affirmations
of their leaders for peace cannot be
heard. If the day shall come, when
they shall beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruning
hooks, when nations shall not lift up
sword against nation, neither learn war
any more; if the day shall come ‘‘when
the war drum throbs no longer and the
battle flags are furled, in the Parliament of Man, the Federation of the
World.’’ “‘If that day comes’’ as come
it will for a’ that it can only come by
instrumental co-operation which shall
break through the dark masses of race
hatred and national rivalry and- jealousies.

The University should stand as a
possible means to accomplish
international fact. It can and should
stand as an international institution
to pave the way for better understanding by sowing the seeds of international
co-operation in fertile soil. For certainly there is not one attending a University who contends that war is the
only way of the present situation; if
there is, then Burn’s words are applicable, when he said:

“What's a’ this jargon o’ your schools,
Your Latin names for stocks and stools.
If honest natures made you fools,

What sair’s your grammars.”
Students then will not say that in no
case will they take up arms, for King
and Country, but will lose no opportunity to have their ideas take root
when they will do most good in this
great cause; thereby helping in a cause
which will finally, all hope, see the
better nature of the peoples prevail,

years with

do not

no signs

aid:

nations

——-—-— — O— -——
Birth Notice.

“| want to insert a notice of the
birth of my twins.”’

‘Will you repeat it, sir?"

“Not if I can help it’’.

 

this.

TODAY - SAT. - MON.

Joan Robert
CRAWFORD TAYLOR

““THE
GORGEOUS HUSSY”’

with
Lionel BARRYMORE
Franchot TONE
TUES. - WED. - THURS.

Janet Loretta Constance
Gaynor Young Bennett

“T adies In Love”
with SIMONE SIMON

CAPITOL

“‘Do You Dance?’’

Then you'll appreciate
much a smart program adds to
the gaiety of the evening.

how

Birks have a new and fascincinating series of dance programs
now ready; and, most important,
priced to fit a modest expense

budget.

Henry Birks & Son

Limited
Diamond Merchants

Barrington St.

 

 

 

When You Need

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

SERVICE

 

 

 

You get better and VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

at

   
   
 
 
    
    
   

MUSIC - HOME ECONOMICS

Classes for University students —

Appreciation of Music—-Popular Class—-H. Louise Burchell, A. M.,
(Rad.), B. Mus. (Oxon.), Head of Department.

Voice Training for Singing or Public Speaking—Percy Snowden,
Edinburgh and London, Head cof Department.

Orchestra, Violin—Ifan Williams, A. R. C. M., Head of Depart
ment.
Elsie Taylor, Royal Conservatory, Leipsig, Head of Department.

Piano

Practice Rooms available.
Home Economics—Ruth Binnie, London, England, Head of Depart
ment.
TELEPHONE B6524.

 

WINTER OVERCOATS

When you are shopping for a
winter coat you will appreciate a
large stock from which to select—
the newest styles—a proper fit—and
most important a good value for
your money. Upper classmen and
graduates have found they get just
this at Colwell Brothers, Ltd.

No special discounts to Stuother

Value considered our prices chall
dents or any customers.

enge all competition.

TRADE WITH US

Colwell Brothers Ltd.

The English Shop
453-457 BARRINGTON ST.

and

TEACH YOUR DOLLARS TO HAVE MORE CENTS.

 
OOP POOLE AA

em A ae
: és

eo

 

BAND POSES AT ACADIA GAME

'

Believe it or not, Dalhousie,
College by the Sea has a Brass Band
_all its own, seventeen pieces strong
at the game last Saturday when the
. Tigers vanquished the lads from Acadia.
The Band appeared in sight with the
- strains of My Girl's A  Crackerjack
floating across the field. It did its
ws share in urging the Tigers on to victory.
i nts At last a Dalhousie Band has been
eee firmly established, Dalhousians, it is
cc your duty to see that the band cona tinues to flourish.

Bs na ‘This is the first all-Dalhousie Band
of any size. True, last year a small
band was formed but it died out.
However, this year 12 instruments were

a purchased and one of the greatest
_ obstacles in the way, of a successful
h E olle =.

 
    
    
    

by next Saturday
meet the Wanderers

  
 
 

ne ed ni pee

nbers, | Last year
a b and the D. A.“A. C, got
nee: ogether and got a small band going

but | interest died. This year the
ae : ouncil of the Students, the D, A. A. C.
m nd the ‘Glee Club have combined
‘ their - efforts and $400 was set aside
_ from the Reserve of the Council of
the Students to start a band. Some
of this money has been spent and
what true Dalhousian will say that
it has been wasted. Dal is coming
back, to the day of snake dances after
successful matches and increased college
spirit in everything.

 
    
   
   
  

Much of the credit for this successful band is due to Johnny Morrison
who is directing the band and was its
leader last Saturday. He encouraged
the rest of the boys and he deserves
the best of cooperation possible in
setting up the band as an institution
at Dalhousie. Hats off to Plumer,
Wallace, Burley, Marsh, Annear, Redmond, Levin, Macintosh, Robb, Egan,
Gold, Davis, Morse, Fiedelbaum, Leader Morrison, Webster, Landreville,
the members of the band! The best of

Matmen To Meet

.This year Mr. Stirling will institute
a new-policy for Dal’s Wrestling Team.
His primary aim will be to develop
good wrestling condition and to teach
the men the fundamentals of wrestling.
In this way he intends to secure a
‘good foundation for Dal’s future

Wrestting Teams.

_ The first meeting of the ‘36-37
season take place in Mr. Stirling's
office, Tuesday, October 13th. at
12 A.M. Mr, Stirling, will explain
his ideas about wrestling to the candidates and determine suitable hours
= practice.

E
f

 

a

Ue

eee:
y car
~

Notice

All persons hereafter submitting
letters for publication are requested
‘to make them short and to the
‘point, since lack of space prevented

| the publication of several lengthy
epistles this week.

*

 

the

 
  
 

  

 

luck fellows and we sure
your efforts, keep it up!
It is planned that a Gold “D’” will
be the reward for the members of the
band who have fulfilled the requirements. There is no reason why the
band cannot be made a major institution at Dalhousie. We have the talent,
the instruments and the time. So
lets-go! Come to the next game and
bring your friends to hear the Dalhousie
Band and see the Tigers in action.
————0

The Mouthpiece

(Continued from page 2)

appreciate

 

Dalhousie’S financial status cannot be
so robust when such an _ elevation

of prices is required.

Something i is definitely wrong. Look

jat the number of Fresh this year.

The class is said not to total 75 students
A relatively very small number of
new students are enrolled at Shirreff
Hall.

This situation is not caused by the
indisposition of youth to attain higher
education. It is most significant that
Acadia and Mount Allison have shown
a steadily increasing registration. Of
gteater significance, those universities
have grown in inverse ratio to
housie’s loss.

We must admit I think that Dalhousie faces bankruptcy if it retains
its policy of increasingly higher fees.
Exorbitant prices are driving students from her doors already. Her
high standards and tradition mean
nothing to youth. If Acadia, Mount

Allison, or any other less conspicuous
university will give a similar course of
instruction at less cost, it will get the
trade.

economics
faculties,

Dalhousie should effect
within its halls. In some
notably Arts and Science, there is a
surplus of professors. Such paradoxical situations can be found as highly
paid staff members who have a very
limited number of classes. Let these
men prove themselves worthy of their
hire. If not, let them take a cut in
salary, Many get more than they are
worth anyhow.

Also, I suggest the university
a little salesmanship. Send out members of its staff to the different parts
of the province and the Maritimes to
boost Dalhousie, its advantages, its
high standard, and its tradition. Otherwise, how are people to- know? If
you do not keep your abilities constantly before the public, it soon forgets. Acadia and Mount Allison have
not let any moss grow on their walls.
Their scouts ate everywhere, always
on the lookout for prospective students
—to the very grave detriment of
Dalhousie. The strangest thing is
that Dalhousie is forgotten in her own
province. Why not start in by selling
Dalhousie -here?

use

Diffidently yours,

O. SHUCKS.
—§<——<__9—____

“It ain’t the money I care for—it’s
the principle of the thing,’’

Dal- |

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Comment

(Continued from page 2)

is a petential battlefield. She hates

Russia with good reason. So, _ if
: S
there is a battle, it is possible that

she would rather be on the advancing
German side than the Russian.

Mr. Goeniboes the anti-Nazi Dictator cf Hungary is sick. He is not
expected to come back. With his strong

hand crippled Nazism js liable to
rear its ugly head. Hungary too is

wavering.

 

Russia must always be ready for
possible trouble from Japan, and thus
her resistance to German hegemony

ever middle Europe is weakened.
France is politically torn, although

M. Blum assures that in the event of
external trouble, she is united. Day
by day, the dream of ‘‘ Mitteleuropa”
comes into view. The spectre of
Nazi hegemony hangs over haunted
Europe.

Yet, Hitler Peace

savs he wants

and Lloyd George supports him, I's
$ |

he sincere? If Dr. Stanley’s young

student were confronted with the ques- |

tion of whether England and Canada
shoula rearm to meet this threat, or,
whether they take Hitler at
worth and covenant themselves
would he g
many

should
his
with what say?
There seem to be as
as there are experts.
spoke wisely in urging young men to
think for themselves, Young men
must think, but what a baffling outlook the world them. But
not a temptation for the dis.
appointed and somewhat bewildered
youth to seize the baton of those who
deride the existing order and wish to
substitute some nebulous theory? The
University can do much to counteract
such a tendency,
but rather by a

Germany,

answers

presents
is it

not by condemning
broad study of all
principles, Don’t be discouraged by
the paradoxes and complexity of
present life. Man has always groped
in the dark but some time or other the
light will shine.

Cubs In Win

Scoring three tries, one of which was
converted, and one penalty kick against
one lone unconverted try
opponents, the Dalhousie Cubs made
a very auspicious debut in the Intermediate Football League last Saturday
when they overwhelmed the Acadia
second team by a 14-3 score. The
Cubs led all the way with McRae
scoring. the first try after making a
nice block of an Acadia kick. Hazen
Mitchell boosted the total to 6 soon
after play started in the second half
and MeGregor made no mistake with
| the convert. The Dal backs were
playing very smoothiy and the forwards were following up so fast that
the Acadia

goal was constantly in
danger. McGregor added three more
points on a penalty from 20 yards
out to make the score read 11-0.
In the dying minutes of the game the
visitors put on a rally which netted
them their only try and Wellner went

over to save them from being shut out
only to have Mitchell score again for
Dal just before the final whistle.

The features of the game were Kent
Irwin’s playing at fullback and the
teamwork of the Cubs as a whole.

The lineups :—

Acadia—Jenkins, fullback; Gibson,
Forshay,
[deson,

 

Morrison, halves; Fountain,
McKimmey, Wilson, threequarters; Corey, Stevens, Dillon, Brennan, MeMurtrie, Allaby, Wellner,
wards, ~

Dalhousie—Irwin, fullback: McGregor, Dean, Koretsky, Hanw: ay, Mitchell, three-quarte rs; Lipton, MacLellan,
halves; Phillips, McGre; gor, Mushkat,
Hodson, MacRae, Pauker,

for
—KK LL ess essen

Rogers,
forwards.

CASINO

 

Saturday—Mon.—Tuesday

 

FRED MacMURRAY
JACK OAKIE
JEAN PARKER

“The TEXAS
RANGERS”

 

SIMPSON SING SONG
next TUESDAY NIGHT at 9

 

 

|
| S-m-o-o-t-h, mild—

and throat-easy GSP L=~ #

Buckingham

CIGARETTES

 

October 9th, 1936

   
   

Ca a ee
Ss * =
S22 Yi

5
ARES
ae
5

Bu kino

CiG4 RET TEs

Mas” f)

  
     
  

 

   

.
&
“
1.
.
|

 

 

HE latest Popular Music,
latest Victor Records, all
Popular Magazines, ll
Musical Instruments, Acces! sories for all Musical Instru! ments, Radios in best makes,
Lending Library of latest
Fiction, Cards for every occasion — Xmas, Birthday,

* ; Convalescent, etc., Attractive
15— different flavours—15 \ml Novelties for. Souvenirs.

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B 6821

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages
including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice

| MacDonald Music Co.

393 BARRINGTON ST.

 

The President

for their |

 

 

THOMAS WALLAGE

SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“Tf You Want to See Well See
Wallace”’

 

 

 

at Ee RET ee Students Appreciate

GOOD
FOODS

B7555 B9727

25c

WADE BROS, TAXI

 

COR. SALTER AND
GRANVILLE STS.

1 BLOCK FROM
BARRINGTON ST.

That is why they Enjoy

 

The Green Lantern

 

 

DRUGS

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

 

NEW HAT 
  

 

FACTORY PROCESS

 

 

 

REBUILDING —

   

Telephone
L. 2323

Makes your old hat Like New

Don’t throw away that old hat you like so well! Send it to us
and have it rebuilt, refinished and sealed against dirt and
weather in our new “Weather-Seal”

 
      

Hat Department.

  

Hat-factory methods—just as used in making new hats. Hand
cleaned—shape, style and firmness restored. Discoloration removed, Over thirty operations makes your hat like new.

“Weather-Seal” Process is exclusive in our plant. It
restores the natural silky finish — that right-off-the-shelf look.
Resists dirt. soil and weather. Makes
wear just like new,

 
    
     

Famous

  
 
     

your old hat feel and

        
   
 

Send us a hat. Try this new factory-rebuilding service on our
guarantee of satisfaction, Call us today.

  

WHY BUY A NEW HAT ? Have your old one

Weaiher-Sealed tovay
50

 
  

  
   
 
 

Te

your
ee lh
SLE
\dirt &

Money back if you’re not
delighted with the result

Nanthet

Cousins

LIMITED

—————————S SSS
WASTER CLEANERS’ AND DYERS

 

 

   

TEN PER CENT DISCOUNT FOR STUDENTS

 
