  

k

—
'

i

  

+

At Gymnasium

ene

vb ee
Pein
Oe at

:
s .

  

| Tea Dance

   

Sat. after Game

  

es ea

VOL, LXVII.

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 2nd, 1936

 

Freshy - Soph

Dance, Wed.
October 14th

 

9

a

No.

 

 

DALHOUSIE TIGERS EXPECT VICTORY OVER ACADIA

Revival of Past Glories

In Last Night’s Show

Ghosts of a Glee Club past walked®—

again last night at the gym as the
first performance of the year was
presented in the form of a revival
of past glories. Introduced by ‘‘An
Old Alumnus” in the person of Pat
MeDonald, bits from shows of the
last fifty years graphically told the
story of the rise of Glee Club.

The Choral Society of 1893 opened
the program with a marshmallow roast
featuring a-*double quartette with
Hazen Mitchell, Wilfred Boothroyd,
Bob Wright, Cameron Annear, Lloyd
Dalton, Earle Fraser.

Memories of Benge Atlee colored
the revival of 1910 as Earle Fraser
sang “I Wish I Had a Girl’, while
an old Glee Clubber, Fran Gardner,
commemorated the ‘Misfit Man” a
musical comedy of 1911, with her
singing of ‘I’m Falling in Love With
Someone’”’ to the well known comedian
of several of last season’s shows,
Jack Arnell.

The war of necessity transformed

_the Glee Club into the wholly feminine

. . : .
organization as seen in the “ Meller
_ +» drammer’’ an old time thriller of the

  

first water which drew the timehonored hisses from the audience... "The Yokohama Maid’ with Joan
Furlongand Julius Forster was followed
by. “Cleopatra”, a burlesque which
starred the ever popular Bill Stevens
in the title role. Bill’s interpretation
of Cleopatra did much towards making
this one of the comedy highlights of
the program.

Fat McKenzie and Fred Jennings
in the historic ‘‘Carrie Comes to
College’’ made famous the rendition
of “Old Man River’’ which was next
presented by the double quartette,
which included Marian Geldert, Fran
Martell, Mary Marsh, and Joan Furlong. This ghost from the hazy
past of 1929 brought back many
memories to old patrons of Glee Club,
for ‘“‘Carrie Comes to College’ was
one of the most ambitious and successful undertakings of the Club.

The revival of a really spine-tingling
bit of the hit of 1935 ‘“‘The Ghost
Train"’ followed. Most of the original
cast took part with the exception of
Ruth Skaling, Ede Cox and Margaret
Kindle. The people on stage built

(Continued on Page 4.)

   

BRILLIANT GRADUATE
DIES.

As the Gazette was going
to press it was learned with
great regret that Dr. John
Denoon, one of Dalhousie’s
most brilliant young medical
graduates, passed away in

Gold Coast, Africa, on Sept.
29. President of the Students’
Council, winner of I. O. D. E.

Scholarship, an active participant in all student activities,
member of Phi Kappa Pi Fraternity, he was universally
popular. He had established
a fine professional reputation
making a specialty of studying
tropical diseases. His untimely passing is a great loss
to Dalhousie and to the medical world.

 

 

Students’ Council

Decides for Band

The Students’ Council met as a
body for the first time this term
last Sunday for the express purpose
of considering the matter of setting
up an appropriation for the Dalhousie
Band. The Council at the time of
their election last spring appointed a

Committee composed of President
Gordon Lea, Henry Ross, Smith
Melvor, Fred Barton, and Roland

Hurst to look into the question of
the revision of the Constitution. This
Committee together with SecretaryTreasurer Murray Rankin and Professors Bell and Johnston have during
the summer revised the laws of the
council making no very great changes
but at the same time bringing them
up to the needs of the student body
today.

At the meeting of the whole body
last Sunday, Edward Barnhill, President of the D. A. A. C. presented the
problem of the Band to the meeting.

He said plenty of talent was available |

to give Dalhousie a first class band
but they lack instruments. He proposed that the council make an appropriation of $400.00, which should
be taken from the surplus rather
than the present years income. His
reason for this action is that this
surplus which was built up during
times of prosperity can fulfill a real
need now and should be drawn upon
rather than held for some emergency
which perhaps will never present itself.

In the event of the Council making
the appropriation, President Barnhill
stated that the D. A. A. C. and Glee
Club would put on benefit games and
shows to help pay back the Council
for the expense incurred. Last year
student officials felt that the Band
conducted by the Glee Club put an
added punch into University life and
as a result should this year receive
some monetary encouragement.

After much discussion $t was decided
to grant the proposed appropriation
and a committee composed of Clem
Egan, Henry Ross, Smith Mclvor,
Freddy Barton,and Gordon Lea were
appointed to oversee the matter and
to appoint a Band Committee.

Wallace Wright, Council Representative of the Sophmore Class then
asked that the councjl grant $20.00
to the Committee in charge of Initiation, in connection with expenses incurred in entertaining the Freshman
Class at a party held at Shirreff Hall.
This request was granted,

The matter of the Students’ Council
Dance was then brought up for discussion. It was decided to stage the
dance on Tuesday, October 6th in the
Gymnasium, Roland Hurst, Representative of the Commerce Society
asked that the committee in charge
of the dance be granted $25.00 more
than the amount used last year for the
purpose of adding feature attractions
and decorations in the hope that a
successful party in the Gymnasium

(Continued on page 4.)

Veterans On Dal Lineup

 

Sess
Sess

JACK BUCKLEY CAPT. PAT GUNTER

Tiger’s Tentative Team

FULL-BACK.
HAL CONNOR.

~ THREE-QUARTERS.
DUFF STEWART.
JACK BUCKLEY.

HALVES.

JIM MONT.
GEO. CORSTON.

DOUG CREASE. TIGER VENIOT.
SQUANK DOUGAN.

FORWARDS.
PAT GUNTER, Cat.
ERIC STEVENSON.
POOH DeWOLFE.
IKE MERCER.

BILL COOK.
DON STOREY.
RON IDESON.

Other possible selections for Saturday are Pauker, Dean, Mitchell and
Mushkat.

GAZETTE PLATFORM

Help us nail down these planks!

The Gazette sets out below its recipe for a bigger and better
Dalhousie. If you don’t like it, let’s see you give a better one; if
you do like it, give us a hand and help us put Dalhousie on its feet.
Week by week, we will concentrate on these objectives. Already
the first nails are being driven into two of our planks as we go to
press—the establishment of a permanent college band and the
entertainment of visiting teams. Come on, Dalhousians, help
us build a better Dalhousie.

Here are the most important of the planks in our platform—

1. Establishment of a vigorous Arts and Science Society.

2. Revision and publication of all student societies’ constitututions.

3. Thorough investigation of the possibilities of a Students’
Union building.

4 Abolition of the positions of business managers of the Gazette,
Year Book, and Students’ Directory, and their amalgamation with
the office of permanent secretary-treasurer of the Students’ Council.

5. Establishment with faculty co-operation of an employment bureau for students.

6. Acollege band.

7. More friendly relations with other colleges.
of visiting teams, athletic, debating,-etc.

8. A skating rink on the campus.

9. Some form of letter banquet to honour letter-winners at
the end of the year.

10. Granting of a lump sum of money for athletic purposes
by the Council to the D. A. A. C. with its administration as hitherto.

11. Let the Malcolm Honour Award be presented to only the
most outstanding student graduate—do not hand out a dozen or
so every year rather indiscriminately as in recent years.

12. Improved methods of advertising the excellent educational
facilities available at Dalhousie—organization of alumni organizations and possible appointment of publicity manager by the University.

13. Improvement of lighting and ventilation in the three main
student libraries—the MacDonald, the law, and the medical.

(The above points are obviously notin order of importance). Clip this
platform out and mark off one by one the attainment of each of
these objectives as the year goes by. It can be done—if you help us

entertainment

 

St

 

 

President Greets
Student Assembly

President
delivered a most interesting and frank
talk to the student body in the gym
Yesterday noon Stanley

nasium,

Dalhousie’s difficulties were placed
before the students and the
President showed that Dalhousie has
weathered difficult times,
come through with colors flying, ‘and
that the most pressing of these hardships are past.

clearly

indeed yet

The students were urged to make

a thorough study from a Canadian
viewpoint of the European situation
and the debacle of the League of
Nations,

“For youth’, said the President,
‘life is an adventure, and in my
opinion a gay adventure...... intellec
tual endeavour is the most thrilling
of all adventures
of

it is the quality

adventure that counts.”
The university presents youth with
the opportunity to explore and adventure in first-rate — things.

The university stands not as a
preparation for life, but the student's
education there is the most important
part of his life.

With curiosity and a= spark of
imagination youth can make an endlessly rich and marvellous experience
of life.

Dalhousie has taken great pains
to provide opportunities for reading
for our students.

Current journalism, the new books
in the Book Club, and the masterpieces of literature to be found in the
library are at your beck and call and
if you miss all this you are still missing
the richness of life.

The President welcomed those who
have just come over our threshold,
and said that ‘what
you may become, Dalhousie University
become. We inherited
tradition that we believe to be priceless, beyond rubies. That tradition
is now largely entrusted to you, in
the relay race which human life is,”

In closing and in a personal vein
the President
student body “health of body, happiness of spirit, the joy of exploration,

you are, what

will have a

wished each one of the

the serenity that comes of accomplishment.”

 

Sodales Trials

Trials for the selection of a
team to debate against a British
team on October 20th.
Subject Resolved that this

House would rather live

Moscow than in Berlin.
Time and Place—Munro Room

Forrest Bldg.

Monday, Oct. 5th., 7.30 p. m.
Note—Contestants to deliver five

minute-speeches on either side

of the resolution.

in

EVERYBODY WELCOME.

 

 

udent Body Will Stage
Pep Rally at Gym Tonight

Another football season opens tomorrow when the Tigers meet Acadia
at Studley. Will it be just another
season or will it be one to be remember
ed? The team that the
Gold and Black into to-morrow’s
game has a better prospect ahead cf

will carry

it than any for the last decade but
like so many teams in the past at
Dalhousie it seems doomed to prove

a failure. It does not seem possible
that the good old days when the
Dalhousie Tigers were a team’ to be
reckoned

with can ever return.
But whose fault is this? It is
certainly not the fault of the team

for they are doing their share; nor of

the coaches, for the college never
had a more capable nor hard-working
coaching staff than at present, It is

not the fault of the student organizations in charge of the day’s program,
for the Students’ Council in cooperation with the D. A. A. C. has surely
done its part in rejuvenating the Dal
band, a real band this time, in .providing its members with instruments,
and arranging for a tea-dance after
the game in an effort to elicit student
support for the team.

NO!!! The reason for the failure
of so many Dal teams in recent years
is lack of moral backing. It ‘takes
more than fifteen men in uniform to
win a tough football game. Why
can’t Dalhousie be like other colleges
and provide their team with that
little extra support that would mean
so much. It is four years since the
Tigers won a game from Acadia at
Studley, four long years in each of
which the Tigers looked great until
the going got tough. That’s when a
team needs moral support and that’s
when the Tigers don’t get it, so the
management puts it up to the student
body and especially the Freshmen to
decide whether this year will be a
repetition of recent years or a redletter year in the annals of the University. A Pep Rally has been arranged for Friday Evening at 7.30
the gymnasium where the team
will be present in person, so come on

in

out and support them and LET'S
BEAT ACADIA.
SEL EE PRE!

Rooting Section

Set For Tussle

There is going to be a lot of noise
and a lot of fun out at Studley tomorrow afternoon. There going
to be a lot of sound and fury signifying
at least a new student
football. Such our

Just imagine it—at A
big brass band of more than twenty
instruments—the biggest in Dal’s history (the only trouble is that at presstime they couldn't find twenty people
to play them)—all the band-players
in cute uniforms—three nattily-dressed
cheerleaders—the freshmen
masse—Acadia’s contingent
going to be another mob-fight like
last year-)—a tea dance after the
game. Weare certainly starting things
off with a bang this year.

(Continued on page 4)

is
interest in
is forecast.
Dalhousie!

out
(is

en
there

STUDENTS’ COUNCIL DANCE OCT. 6th, 8.30 p. m.- 1 a. m.

REFRESHMENTS

DALHOUSIE GYM.

ADMISSION BY COUNCIL TICKET

 

 
mS

 
   

Mazette [COMMENT

Lloyd George and Herr Hitler.

The aftermath of success is often
obscurity. It is rare that a once
great man ever recaptures the public’s
esteem and his place in its arena that
he knew in his heyday. David Lloyd

“The Oldest College Paper in America.’’ | :

 

GAZETTE STAFF.

Tok:

Pi * | Editors. Ze
J. D. CREASE, B.A. - } I. M. MacKEIGAN, M.A. | George as England's war time Prime
Ph. B5737 Ph. B2436 Minister reached his zenith. His quick
Associates. wit, political acumen and _ fearless
a moves piloted England and the Empire
. John Fisher . Eciuatd Arab; B.A, through four years of armageddon.
Edward S. MacLatchy, B.A. Earl Fraser, B.A. Yes, he made mistakes, but still he
Elizabeth Pearson _ P.S. McNutt was Lloyd George, the hero of the
Geo. H. Murphy, B.A. L, A. Kitz hour. At Versailles the same silver
aha ae « : oratory of that indomitable WelshNews Editor. Sports Editor. man was heard. It was his craftiness
ROLAND HURST S. EDGAR STEWART | that bewildered the less experienced
Ph. B3427 Ph. B5580 Wilson. It was the piquancy of his
aie Ss Gey. Associates. metaphors that won the Khaki electien.
Elwyn Hughes L. A. Landreville, B.A. Such slogans as “hang the Kaiser’,
Tobias Beeber Roy Gold ‘squeeze the Germans uatil the pips

squeak” were household expressions
invented by this genius of political
and diplomatic strategy.

Todey, after many years the voice
is still there, the thunder of his enthusiasm still rampant, but there is one
change—the echo of the crowds is
dormant. In short, the aftermath
of success is often obscurity.

A fortnight ago, after having tried
several times rather unsuccessfully to
capture the public eye Lloyd George
sailed for Germany. Last week he
triumphantly returned with another
new stratagem. He presented to the
startled press of the world his endorsement of the Naziregime. Der Feuhrer
Hitler, he hailed as one of the greatest
of all the great men he had met in his
day. But this was not all. The
Nazis mean and want Peace he said.
A three cornered rapprochment of
England, France and the reputedly
happy Germans was advocated.

Why did Lloyd George convey this
impression of an idyllic Germany,
when other observers seem united
in the view that this godless, iconoclastic group headed by Adolf Hitler
and his leaders mean not peace, but
destruction? Why, when it seems
clear that they intend once more to
push the frontiers of Deutschland
across the face of troubled middle
Europe? Why, when Hitler, in his
autobiography, expressed open and
flagrant dissatisfaction with the status
quo?

Would it be unfair to say this, that
Lloyd George, like Bernard Shaw, has
a passion for the unusual? Or could
it be this, that Lloyd George has
laboured for many months without
success to catch the public eye and
has now made another gallant attempt? He is astute enough te know
that it is difficult to recapture lost
ground. Does the fact, that Hitler
| FOOTBALL AND THE DALHOUSIE SPIRIT. in his book “Mein Kampf” wrote quite
" freely of his admiration for Lloyd

The thud of boot against ball—beautiful tackling—well| George suggest anything, particularly
trained athletes sweeping down the field—the football season js| Whe" it is coupled with a truly warm

upon us bringing with it all its color, its drama, its thrills galore. | Nazi hespitality tendered to Lloyd
George on his trip to Germany? It

might prompt a reciprocal exchange
of esteem. It is difficult to be very
fair in such an instance because Lloyd
George failed to give any reasons as
to why he considered Hitler great

Assisiant Business Manager.

R. L. ARMSTRONG
Phone B 5700

Business Manager.

GORDON K. DALEY
Ph. B5700

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  

BUILDING A NEW DALHOUSIE.

On the first page of this issue has been set forth the Gazette
platform for the re-organization of student activities. Our fond
hope in this connection, as in everything Dalhousian, 1s to ring
the death-knell of the old slogan, ‘‘What’s wrong with Dalhousie?”’
i: * to lay it to rest forever in the tomb from which it should never
have arisen. Nothing’s wrong with Dalhousie. Paradoxically,
it would be a sign of decay if we thought everything was right
with Dalhousie—an attitude of criticism and revolution are not
too greatly to be scorned. All that need be feared is the attitude
of “What's the use’, of cynicism and fatalism. No, fair reader,
there is nothing wrong with Dalhousie—but there is room for
improvement. Let us then determine what our objectives should
_ be-—-hitching -our wagons to not too distant stars—and strive

for their attainment. Let us substitute action for words, or at

least thought for mob-feeling.

f ae

ene) In our platform we have set forth planks which we believe
_-will, when firmly nailed in place, support a healthier student
—s activity. It is our intention during the coming months to explain
_ those points whose scope is not obvious, and with your help. to
realize our aim. Mere machinery of organization in itself is usemas less. It. is necessary to fill that cold frame with life, with the
fics furnished by student support. If only a small number

: +

  

   
  
   

en ere

noring student activities shall by our efforts
take an interest in things Dalhousian, we
Ag vain:

ry ;

  
 

  
 
     
  
 
 

 
 
   


  

a Cage Peete See eS ett 4 ee: : = M
Let us start tomorr ow to nail down the planks in our platform.
__ Tomorrow let’s break the ice and show true Dalhousian hospitality
to the footballers from Acadia. Let’s give the proposed college
te _ band a big hand. Come, Dalhousians, in every way help us to
Pea. - make our programme possible:

fn 4

 
 

True the past few seasons have not been highly successful
from Dalhousie’s viewpoint with regard to games won and lost—
that vital something which carries one to the heights has been

lacking.

biel But this is a new season—a new team—new supporters—a|2"4 his policies peaceful.

p's new band—and Dalhousie’s prospects look bright indeed. It is difficult to. reconcile the tremenie dous warlike preparations, the perFp Dalhousie’s team consists of the fifteen players on the field | Secutions of innocent Jews and the
oar _ and the student body, whose job it is to spur the team on in| S¥PPression of truth as being comi their performance of gridiron miracles. patible with peace. Yet there is this
s final thought that may be advanced.
ae. Everyone knows the tremendous influence which a crowded | Perhaps Lloyd George was the instruee grandstand of ardent supporters has in winning a match. ment. or spokesman for a growing
| ;: :" . English pclicy of pro-German ten= The Students’ Council have started the ball rolling in voting| dency. There are those who would
_-_ Money to procure instruments for the band and the Dal Band | have England tie up with the Third

Reich in any future conflict. What
greater impetus to such a feeling could
be given, than the opinions of a once
great man, of a man whose policies
and preachings more than any other
save Clemenceau and Poincare brought
the Germans to their knees and welcomed the road for Hitler and the
ruthlessness that was to follow?

A eae

is no less famous for its joy-making propensities than for its cacophonous concoctions,

e Tomorrow the football team goes into action for the first
a time this year—don’t judge them too harshly as the time for

_ welding a machine together has been very short. It is enough
if they play the game to the best of their ability—from there
on it is up to you and you and you to see that each and every
member of the team plays above their usual game and this can
only be done by organized support.

It seems that a professor was giving
a lecture on health in one of the classes
when he remarked, “Drink lots of
water; it keeps you from getting stiff |
in the joints.” One cute thing in the
rear of the hall immediately arose and
retorted, “Yeah, but they don’t sell
water in a lotta the joints.”

It is to be hoped that the powers that be will see that the
members of the visiting Acadia team are properly entertained
both before and after the game,

Let us show them that we are glad to have them with us—
Sr it would not be too much if a dance were held in their
onor.

—_

___ Something of this sort is needed to bring the Maritime Universities closer together, - It is a little soon to speak of examinations. Here, however, are a few
special releases from the sups...._.
A drama is an old woman, as, “‘Drama,

what big eyes you have.’’.......A

| The game—Dal vs. Acadia; the time—Saturday afternoon;
the place—Studley campus.

   

pee .

___ We want the title at Dal this year so every one out to cheer 4 era ha Pee ee ence, @
___ this year’s aggregation on to victory. a Bene Ok) wel 60. hy-iride
Ee gear) | : : em

  

ee

Americans but rather to what
wet ei te A cube is a baby bear.|can properly be considered their

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Something To Think About

October, 2nd., 1936

Letters tothe

 

Now that Freshman Week is drawing to a close and the last enthusiastic welcoming speech will soon
be heard it is perhaps timely that
a few comments be made concerning
the situation that faces the newcomers. From towns, villages,
cities and scattered hamlets these
wide-eyed neophytes have wended
their way. They have been feasted
and feted and have. been told of
the lofty traditions of the college
and that it will be their solemn
duty to maintain those traditions.
The faculty will remind them of
the distressing conditions of our
age, of world wide economic distress, of racial hatreds and national
antagonisms, of the almost imminent danger of war. They will
be told that it will be their duty
to help alleviate those evils, that
it will be to them that a bewildered
world will look for the leadership
and intelligence to restore order
from chaos. The old theme of
‘to you from failing hands we
throw the torch’”’ will be eloquently
stressed till the chests of the
young neophytes swell with pride.
Theirs indeed will be an important
position, the obligations and responsibilities of modern civilization
will be their obligations and their
responsibilities, they will be the
educated men of the world, the
undoubted leaders of their communities. Professors solicitous of
their welfare will help them pick
their courses, that magical road
to their lofty position.

In a few weeks they will become
merely members of the vast student
body, their separate entity forgotten. Those who plan on a
purely technical or professional
career will begin to think of their
arts subjects as annoying obstacles
placed in their way by university
regulations. Those who plan on
acquiring an “education’’, on becoming ‘‘educated men _ and
women’? will face greater bewilderment. They will learn about the
Roman Empire, the Renaissance
and the causes of the French
Revolution, but about the fomenting revolutions in the world today
very little. Henry Ford will tell
them that ‘History is bunk.’’
Their commerce course will teach
them the intricate points of reparation payments but their prospective employer will ask them
if they can do double interest.
Their English course will attempt
to teach them to appreciate poetry
but their fathers will be distressed
to find that they cannot dictate
a business letter. To all this
the pedagogues will answer that
the proper function of the university is to teach them ‘“‘How to
live’? not ‘‘How to make a living.’’
Yet the fact that the curriculum
contains a course in commerce,
a course in fisheries and a course
in civil service refutes this contention.

It is submitted that the basis
of the universities’ failure to properly train men is due to the fact
that the educational system attempts to make a compromise
between two irreconcilable principles. The system makes a halfhearted attempt to achieve the
glorified trade school ideal as
typified by the university that
gives a degree in hotel management,
and at the same time to achieve
the classical ideal as typified by
Oxford and Cambridge with their
prerequisites of Latin, Greek and
philosophy. The universities do
not make a sincere attempt either
to teach their students how to
make a living or how to live. They
give the student a smattering of
both and as a result he leaves the
university knowing nothing of
either.

In England the universities pursue one ideal and treat the other
with characteristic English contempt for American innovations.
Oxford and Cambridge attempt
to give their students a cultural
background. The purely materialistic problem of how to make a
living is considered completely
outside the realm of the university
curriculum. The English universities can successfully pursue this
policy which for a Canadian or
American university would mean
financial disaster. The reason is
not due to national inferiority on
the part of the Canadians and

    
  
    
        
  
   
    
  
     
   
  
    
    
   
  
   
  
   
    
     
    
     
     
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
         

   

     
    
   
   
       
 

    
   
   
 

   
         
      

  

Editor

national superiority to the Englishmen. In England education is the
privilege of the wealthy. Unless
one is a student of their public
schools his chances of entering
Oxford or Cambridge are very
remote and to attend an English
public school requires more money
than to attend a Canadian university. As a result the students of
the English colleges are of a type
that can well be disdainful of the
question of how to make a living.
Moreover, the regulations of the
English civil service require solely

 

Dear Editor:—

The ‘‘new business’ department of
the University is trying out a new
invention on the boys this year. It’s
called a ‘‘Library Fee’’. Nobody seems
to know what it is exactly. But the
“new business’’ department is very
proud of its toy. Tenderly it is
cherished, qealously guarded from prying eyes that seek its destruction.
At present, its foundations are very
weak but if unmolested the department is convinced it will grow bigger

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
  

excellence in classical subjects. ;
: and bigger.
On the other hand in Canada and pees ;
; . : This is not the first time we have
in the United States education : 7
heard about library fees. Not so

is not the privilege of the rich but
is the natural right of every citizen.
With a free public school system
the result is that the majority of the
students are of a type to whom
the problem of how to make a
living is an important one. The
Canadian theref ore
have to satisfy a demand which
in England does not exist. The
result is a futile compromise.
The problem can only be solved
by the universities adopting one
course or the other. If they choose
to adopt the English system they
must provide some means of employment for their graduates, as
is provided by the English civil
service. Instead of there being
a civil service course at Dalhousie
there would be a special class of
the civil service open to graduates

long ago—within the regime of the
present exalted—incoming students
were warned against chisellers who
tried to charge them for seats in the
library. Remember? Now, the university has taken over the _ trade.
Not only that but the chairman of
“new business’, not later than last
year exhorted the boys to make better
use of library facilities. This year
the wse of these facilities is penalized.
[ cannot understand such action.
Can you?

At Dalhousie person pays so
much for the classes he takes. Surely
that does not merely include listening
to lecturers repeat notes they made
years before. If so, a fellow is sadly
victimized. A student comes to college
to satisfy his thirst for knowledge.
The libraries contain ‘the potien to

universities

a

whoss whole courses hay have gratify that thirst. He pays his
consisted of literature and philo-|™"°y for the privilege of having
sophy. their doors opened to him. Yet he

must now pay an extra “‘fee’’ for what

The fact that at Dalhousie there
is a special course in civil service
shows the tendency towards the
glorified trade school ideal. The
large prizes and scholarships donated to the students of Latin and

he has already bought.

The only reasonable basis for this
“‘fee’’ is to pay for wear and tear on
the library desks. But
anyone will admit it is very improbable

chairs and

Greek reveal the tendency towards that any student will wear out five
the’ Enetislt ideal. if. the Univer. dollars’ worth of chair and desk in
a year. Indeed, from personal know
sity is to properly perform its

furiction jt must. go one. way or ledge after four years, I have many

times been worn pretty thin myself

the other. The present compro- : ;
mise results in the graduation of while the chair I used stood: up restudents who have learned neither | ™@rkably well. What little wear it

did suffer could have been adequately
taken care.of by the cauticn deposit.
That's what we pay it for.

Personally I can see no _ logical
justification for a ‘“‘library  fee’’.
Especially as I had no voice in the
matter.

It is a deplorable state of affairs,
when a-large group of intelligent
human beings can be _ shamelessly
robbed and not be able to lodge a
complaint. The student body is: helplessly gagged by a pompous declaration
that students attend the uaiversity
only by the university's generously

how to live nor how to make a
living.

They had been sitting in the alcove
alone. No word broke the stillness
for half an hour, until—

“Suppose you had money”, she said,
“what would you do?”

He threw out his chest in all the
glory of young manhood, “I’d travel’’,

He fe]Jt her warm young hand slide
into his. When he looked up she had
gone,

In his hand lay a nickel.
(Continued on page 4.)

 

Choose your

OVERCOAT
Early

It feels like a long, cold winter and here’s a style tip
for students who like to keep abreast of the latest

‘‘Fashions for Men’’.

Tweed’s the thing..........and we are showing a

large range of the newest and smartest styles and

patterns, featuring the ‘Eden’’, a single breasted

   

Raglan Model with concealed button front and Scotch
Plaid interlining, the newest colors are gray and brown

in Glenurquart checks.

      
     
 

Priced at $20.00and up.

     

 

   

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

     
   

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO STUDENTS.

  
  

 
     
     
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
     
  
  
  

4 ;

tober, 2nd., 1936

a

_ Story

_ The first instalment of this column
___ is going to revolve, so to speak, around
the freshman class. This seems ap—,; propriate enough, as, for the next few
weeks they will be the main topic of
-_ conversation aroundthecampus. How
ever, we hasten to state that we have
- not the slightest intention of offering
Cs them advice. We imagine that they
"will receive enough of that from the
"sophomore class in general, and the

te

"ae [
oo ;
.-"~
~) S

oa
a

_ Speaking of the initiation committee, we feel compelled to questioa
_ their set of freshman regulations.
oe. As we recall it, Dalhousie, as an upto-date university, has long since
abolished those petty rules, so closely
associated with hazing, which tend
_ to humiliate the new-comer. He has
-_-worn regalia and placards solely for
as, the purpese of identification. But
—__we fail to recogaize the necessity of
ers going further than this unless the
freshman prove rebellicus. It will
only straia relations, and each succeed__ ing freshman class will probably feel
, it their duty to increase both cause
and effect in their sophomore years,
| until we are back tothe bad old days,
and the ‘“‘sock 'em down” attitude.
ae ne
i Last week we were accused of be_  littling prominent fraternity men,and
of labelling fraternity rushees as “‘suckers”. ~We believe that the following
Be expression of opinion will disprove
this accusation:
--—_—s- Frraternities on the Dal campus,
~~ wnlike those in other colleges, lack
tradition, and for this reason are often
misunderstood and _ misrepresented.
__ The public seems to be blind to their
4 rie _ benefits —the acquisition of loyal friends
; and the chance for the development
of personality. Fraternity men learn
team-work, and the art of getting
Pr along with others. And their fraternal
ante. associations do not cease with graduaci tion. A large percentage of the leaders
i _ in the business, professional, political
and sports life of North America are
a fraternity men who keep ia active
hee contact with their old chapters, and
an - publicly admit that they have derived
great benefit from them, .
mt. Naturally, fraternities have their
pad points as well, Too maay parties,
| _and too few studies is a common charge
~~ against them. But we honestly be
ae lieve that if an average should be
ey taken of the scholastic standards of
re the fraternity and non-fraternity men
in Dalhousie, the result would show
ip “ab the advantage to be on the side of the

former,

ae og er

 

And so another college year swings
into stride........ most of last year's
campus romances continue, and some
new ones seem to be flourishing .......
the old trick of selling seats in the
library to the freshmen has been
unsuccessfully re-attempted the
thud of a football and the howls of
Red Payne come from the field—
the upperclassmen discuss the freshettes and the freshettes djscuss the
-___upperclassmen—remarks on professors
: and the sups they set are already
beginning to lose their sting........ they've

Beis started kicking about the students
council again-....... they'll get used to
Lia it.....pep rallies are being organized

The Studley Introducing

Students of Dalhousie, we start this
series by presenting to you the big
shot of big shots, the President of the
Council, a man well liked by all who
know him but who is known by too few.

Gordon is a proud native of the
“Island”. Born ia Victoria, P. E. I.,
the son of the late premier, the Hon.
W.-M. Lea and Mrs. Lea, he received
his pre-university education at Victoria
and at Prince of Wales College. He
then made the one great mistake of
his career, taking his pre-med at Mt.
Allison, where he was a member of
the Students’ Council and president
of his class. Entering Dalhousie in
the fall of '88 his executive ability
was at once recognized; he was secretary of the Med Society for two years,
president eof Phi Rho Sigma—and
last spring was chosen for the allimportant post of presidency of the
council.

Gordie has also been a student of
excellent merit, being a leader in his
class, and is at the present time interning at the Halifax Infirmary.

 

DALHOUSIE

in’ veo - |

 

 

GORDON LEA.
President of the Students’ Council.

 

A fine Dalhousian, a leader to be
respected and a man to be liked, we
present—Gordie Lea.

 

 

Hither, Thither, and Yon

By Egbert.

Greetings freshmen and freshettes,
or rather 1 should say, to imitate’ a
gentleman and put the ladies before
the men, greetings freshettes and
freshmen. But then my little friends,
that would raise the question, as to
whether there are any ladies or gentlemen in your midst. Tut, tut, no
offense newcomers for after a few
months at Dalhousie you will begin
to wonder if there are any ladies in
the college, and in thinking it over
don't forget that all women are not
ladies, and vice versa, if you girls
get my meaning when looking over
the male portion of the college. However | suppose every college has its
share of the shrinking little flowers
ranking next to the violet for, shall
we say, shyness. Well, -girls, I guess
your Egbert doesn’t get his bid to the
Shirreff Hall party and DeltaGamma,

but don’t you think it would be fun.

to see what would be said about your
parties in the subsequent Gazette.

Now, newcomers, if you have not
heard a discussion already on “What
is Wrong with Dalhousie”, before
very long you will hear it discussed
at great length, for when every subject
fails you will hear John Fisher and
others telling you exactly what is
wrong. ;

To my mind there are many things
wrong at Dalhousie and not the least
the faculty. The main thing that is
wrong is the distrust that the student
body in general have for the faculty
in general; notice I say “faculty in
general’’—for there are some men on
the faculty whom the students do
trust and in their own quiet way are
very popular.

There is only one faculty where
there is complete harmony between
students and faculty and that is the
faculty of law, and a spirit which is
not found elsewhere in the University
and is due in no very small measure

 

 

maybe the old college spirit is
looks

back to stay this time........ it
like a big year-........

 

 

 

. When You Need
- DRUGS

better

You get

at

; ‘“Do You Dance?’’

4 > Then you'll appreciate how
i much a smart program adds to
. the gaiety of the evening.

re Birks have a new and fascin
cinating series of dance programs

- now ready; and, most important,

. priced to fit a modest expense
budget.

|| Henry Birks & Son
Ein mited
Dinners eee

Barrington St.

 

MEDICINES

or any other Drug Store Merchandise
SERVICE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

 

PRESCRIPTIONS

VALUE

and

 

DRUGS

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

to the qualifications and calibre of
the men who are the faculty, not only
in their ability as teachers but in
their qualifications as ‘‘men’’. Long
may this spirit prevail in the faculty
of law, and may it spread to the
rest of the college. It is rumoured
right now, however, that those embryo
lawyers who were registered in former
years are rather disgusted with the
trick that has been played on them
by the raising of the fees after they
had been registered a year or two.
They say there was a moral contract
with the University that their fees
would remain the same for their entire
course, regardless of what changes
might be made for new students in
law. They are quite incensed at
even the raising of the fees for newcomers, for they are to a man proud
of their law school and faculty and
do not wish it injured in any way.
Well they should be proud, for it
is the law school that has turned
out ninety-eight percent of the men
who have made the name of Dalhousie |
great, =

You chaps who have been registered
in law before -have learned a thirtydollar lesson, namely, that a moral
contract is not binding at Dalhousie,
for it has the power as was told to one
student when he balked at the painful
extraction, and to which he replied,
“Tf it weren’t for the faculty of law,
I'd tell you to go to—(no saints there)”
and finish my course somewhere else.

Too bad, boys—get your contract
in writing next time and get some
practical advantage from your course
in law.

Until next week,

Ta ta and cheerio,

Egbert.

Pertinent Patter

Once again the campus of Dalhousie
welcomes that ten day monstrosity —
the proverbial freshman. At present
the major sport among upper classmen
is spotting the greenest of the green.
But presently when the tumult and
the shouting dies and the wearing of
the green becomes a thing of pleasant
memory, these new men will gradually
be assimilated into the smooth working
of the campus machinery. At this
moment, however, when the contrast
between the new and the old is most
pronounced, we old students feel
a warm trickle of sentimentality slightly loosening the sterility of the brain
and we long to indulge in a bit of
senile advice for the supposed edification of the new students. This rather
deadly form of creeping paralysis
has also struck your author who
wishes to put forth some sort of plea
for an interest in college affairs. No
one would advise you to neglect your
work—for that is indeed your main
purpose in college—but do forget
either the education which a reasonable
amount of extra-curricular activity
can give. Support some college activity—be it debating, Gazette, Glee
Club, football. The education they
can give will supplement your studies
to help give you a balanced point of
view.

Is it really true that a ‘For Men
Only” attitude has struck the law
school? Does a ‘‘woman’s place is
in the home” feeling really underlie
the sombre faces of these ponderous
pedants?

(Continued on page 4.)

GAZETTE

In The Court Of

Probate, Divorce
and Admiralty

(Wills Wives and Wrecks).
Admiralty Division.
R. V. Paul Barer.
The prisoner was charged with
piracy under Section 138 of the Criminal Code for theft on the high seas,
namely, that he did steal a kiss from
one Phyllis Withope in a canoe on
the North West Arm on the night of
August 20th, anno domini 1936.

The prosecution was conducted by
Mr. Ford Karr while Mr. Al Kohol
appeared for the defence. The case
was tried before Mr. Justice Napp.

It appears that the accused .and
Miss Withope went canoeing on the
Arm on the night above mentioned,
and after paddling about for a while,
the accused suddenly grabbed the
lady and proceeded to osculate before
she could even say ‘‘Maybe’’, causing
her to become very excited and nearly
upsetting the canoe.

The prosecution first called Miss
Withope to the witness stand. She
disclosed that both she and the accused were Sophomores and that she
came from New Brunswick but was
visiting in Halifax at the time, while
the accused lived in Halifax. She
explained that she had thought him
harmless enough and that in committing the crime the accused had
taken her unawares. His Lordship
was greatly shocked as he thought
she said that the accused had taken
her underwear, and he immediately
upbraided the prisoner for his scandalous behaviour. Whereupon the prisoner jumped to his feet and loudly
proclaimed his innocence. Mr. Kohol
then suggested that the judge charge
him with contempt of court. His
lordship thought he said “attempt to
court’ and remarked that if that
was an offence a lot of Dalhousie
boys would spend most of their time
in jail.

The witness said that at the time
she had been wearing slacks and that
the prisoner had told her that they
looked. like the Devil on her. (He
subsequently denied this and said
that he merely told her that she looked
like Helen Slack, a girl he knew).

During cross-examination by Al
Kohol the following dialogue took
place between Mr. Kohol and Miss
Withope:

O—At the time were you sitting
on the port or the starboard side?

A.—There was no harbour nearby
so there was no port side, and it was
cloudy so there were no stars on either
side,

QO—Are you familiar with nautical
words?

A.—Oh yes,
language myself.

Q.—Do you know what a quay is?

A.—It’s to unlock the oar locks,

Q—What is a rudder?

A.—(Blushing). Part of a cow.

O.—What is a tiller?

A.—A drawer storekeepers used to
keep their money in before cash registers were invented.

but I never use bad

She said that at the time the Arm
was quite dark. The judge remarked
that he didn’t see what the tan on
the prisoner’s arm had to do with the
case.

After Miss Withope left the witness
stand, the prisoner’s landlady, a Miss
Print, was called to testify as to his
desperate character. She said that
she had once heard him say that he
was going to attempt again to kill a
man William Lardz. The
prisoner later denied this and claimed
that what he said was, “I’m going to
shoot a game of billiards and I hope
(’ll have better luck than last time.”

named

Mr. Karr urged that he also be
charged under Section 1389 which
says that a person is liableto suffer
death if in committing piracy he does
any act likely to endanger the life
of any person, and that stealing a
kiss in a canoe was certainly endangering the lives of the occupants. Phyllis
Withope then became very sorry
for the prisoner and told the judge
that it really wasn’t theft at all as
she really had enjoyed it very much

but wanted to show the prisoner that |

he couldn't get fresh with her,

The judge, however, decided to be
lenient and let the prisoner off with
an easy sentence by ordering him to
collect $10,000 for the purpose of
building a swimming pool.

Page Three

 

Alber hate
mane Made

A
PORALS

TODAY - SAT. - MON.

GARY
COOPER

MADELEINE
CARROLL

“THE GENERAL
DIED AT DAWN”

TUES. - WED. - THURS.

LORETTA
YOUNG

“RAMONA”

CAPITOL

Wallace Bros.

takes pride in presenting the
New Fall Shoes for Men and

Women.

Popularly Priced

 

Smartest Styles

Expert Fitting

Wallace Bros. Ltd.

454 Barrington St.

 

 

 

Cradition

Every college has its own traditions, but style is one
that’s universal. College men everywhere have recognized the tradition of style and fit that surrounds every
Tip Top garment—suits, topcoats, overcoats.

Twenty-five years of tailoring history is the Tip Top
background which has given us keen insight into the
wants of college men.

Thus you will find in your Tip Top clothes the very style
ideas first seen on your own campus—ideas which
immediately have won popular acceptance.

You'll like the style of your Tip —_ UNRESTRICTED CHOICE
Top clothes just as you will the | OF BRITISH WOOLENS
fine English woolens, the hand- - 75
cut and tailored-to-measure fit, 4:
the service and satisfaction that

Tailored to Your Measure

Tip Top Clothes always provide.

TUFI36

TIP TOP TAILORS

LIMITED
TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 
0

oo

On Fri, Beate 25th. Delta Gamma
- startled the women students of the
__ University by demanding the Freshettes |
‘in the Chem. theatre. Never before

ee has such a thing been heard of but the |

tes, not knowing that, came
‘obediently. There, they were addressed by their President, Sheila
Stewart, who gave them a general
pep-talk and explained the meaning of
~ the society. Much was made of the
new Constitution which the officers
are so proud of. Gene Morison, the
_ debating chairman, told enthusiastically of coming debates and the plans
she had to revolutionize the aforesaid
coming debates. (If the campus should
? ‘see huge numbers of charming freshies
| running about with sheafs of paper in
their hands and talking into mirrors,
- deep thought will soon supply a reason).
Since Delta Gamma is now co-operatue ing with D. G. A, C. Kay Sireom did
as . some recruiting for Basketball. These
| same good Freshettes may be athletically inclined but from a look at
the Questionnaires the only sport
they seem to have heard of is Badminton. (My, my, won't the Council
save money this year!) After all these
words of good advice the meeting then
_ adjourned to the Alumni-Alumnae
Tea at Shirreff Hall.

 

~

This Tea which is held annually was
a particular success this year. Through
‘some happy trick of fate a goodly
number of upper-classmen turned out
and with much introducing on the
part of Virginia Piers, Nancy Lawson,
and a few others they managed to
create a fairly enthusiastic spirit of
welcome, It was here that the first
threads of McGillism began to creep
Pe in. It seems that Dalhousie Girls
have stolen from that famous College
the idea that each Freshette should
be under the protection of a senior
agen or a junior. Sort of the mother-henwith-chicks idea but it seems to be
a lian _ going over very well. I understand

se He that the senior or junior is supposed to
pets supply information on anything under
it the: sun, Some - College, Dalhousie!

We, are. looking forward to the
De ta Gamma Initiation which is
7 schedul to occur some time within

> She next few weeks, Instead of the
yh) eel vrated and ‘over-used climbing of |
stairs: s they are “dragging out the good
ed } black gowns in an effort to make
at impressive. Your reporter will not

~

Pi eo ., On
Exchange

   
 
 
 
   
    

 

     
   
   
   
  

Ae

  

 

A newcomer to the Dalhousie campus
this fall is Mr. E, Norris Davis, N. F.
C. U. S. Exchange Scholar from the
University of Saskatchewan. Mr.
Davis, who is at present registered
--— in:~ the second year of the Law School,

will return to his home university

to complete his course in the 37-38

session.

Several Dalhousie students are also
taking advantage of the National
Federation of Canadian University
Students’ scheme of exchanges between
Canadian colleges. During the current session the following Dalhousians
will complete their third year in Arts

_ as Exchange students:

~ Barbara Bennett — University of

Toronto.

Pearl Levine—University of Toronto.

Gerald Coffin—Queen’s University,
Kingston.

G, R. K. Lynch—University of
British Columbia, Vancouver.

This exchange of students is one
of the most ambitious undertakings
of the Students’ National Federation.

ee It is the hope of the federation that
/ by this means the Canadian college
student will come into closer contact
with other universities thus producing a broader and more national
aspect in college life.

    
  
   
    
    
 

  

——_O—_—_
pa

Suffers Injury.

'

      

   

ea Many Dalhousie friends of Victor
a. Oland will be sorry to hear that he
afer i broke his arm while out sailing a few

weeks ago, Vic is returning again
to Oxford this year. |

- , :

mit Se

Returns to Dal.

  
  

_ Oscar Serlin, prominent varsity

_ basketballer, has returned to college,
and seems quite recovered from his
: : Ee -_ severe eo of last spring.

 

  

  
  

  
 
     
     
   
   
   
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
 
 
  

every member
and Fred Barton were named as a
committee to look after the matter
of gate receipts.

+

Decides for Band
(Continued from Page 1)

might lead to other parties there.
This request was left more or less up
to the committee appointed which
consists of Helen Holman, Fred Barton,
Henry Ross and Roland Hurst.
Fred Barton, Representative of the
Junior Class, then brought up the
question of outside attendance at
presentations of the Glee Club. It
seems that in the past two years far
too many outsiders have availed
themselves of the opportunity of
attending these presentations with
the result that they have become
presentations not for the students
but for the city in general. As a
result the following motion was made:
Only those presenting Students’ Council
tickets that is the owner and one

guest and the members of the Alumni

shall be admitted to presentations

of the Glee Club.

Student Budgets

All student societies wishing
grants of money from the Students’ Council must submit
budgets to M. M. Rankin, 40
Preston St., before 6.00 p. m.;
Wed., Oct. 7, budget forms are
obtainable from Mr. Rankin.

 

from practically
Clem Egan

refusal
present

After a

Before the meeting concluded, Prest

Barnhill of the D. A. A. C. put the
matter of the D. A. A. C. Budget
before the council for consideration.
He proposes at the next meeting of
the Council to present a consolidated
budget as is done by the Glee Club.
The D. A. A. C. feel that they are
better fitted to handle problems arising
from athletic expenditures than a
body such as the Council not acquainted with such matters.

 

¢

Set Date For
Acadia Match

The Dalhousie tennis prospects played the first of their annual matches
with the alumni last Wednesday and
came out second best. Seven matches
in all were played with the graduates
taking all four women’s doubles but
losing two in the men’s division.
After a lot of wrangling and disputing
the date of the opening match with
Acadia has finally been decided and
has been set for Oct. 10 instead of
Oct. 3. On that date Dalhousie. will
meet Acadia at Wolfville. So far the
practice sessions have been wellattended but the team has not been
picked yet so there is still plenty of
time for anyone who thinks he or
she can play tennis to make it. There
will be somebody at the courts every
day to play with and the matches,
which will be posted, are in no way

restricted to those who have turned
out to date.

The results of the
Dalhousie-Alumni match were as follows:—
Women’s Doubles—

Mrs. Tyler and Miss. W. MacFat
ridge, A. def. J. Crease and M. Garten

D., 6-4.

Mrs. Tyler and Miss W. MacFatridge, A. def. I. Freestone and M.
Pue-Gilchrist, D. 6-2.

Mrs. Roper and K. Sircom, A. def.
J. Crease and M. Garten, D. 6-4.

Mrs. Roper and M. Little, A. def.
I. Pentz and Z. Linkletter, D. 6-4.
Men’s Doubles—

K. Garten and E. Stewart, D. def.
A. J. Sollows and W. S. Dunlop, A.
6-0, 9-7.

R. Cram and A. Barry, A. def. K.
Garten and E. Stewart, D. 6-3, 1-6,
6-0.

_B. Armstrong and E. Cohn, D. def.
A. J. Sollows and W. S. Dunlop, 6-4.

ieee

“‘Where were you during the sixth
and seventh dances last night?’’
“Don was showing me some new

steps.”

**Were they very hard?”
“Oh, no, we had cushions.”’


 
 
      
    
   

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dal Students
At S. C. M. Meet

A group of ten students spent the
past week-end at Hubbards under
the leadership of Rev. John D. Copp,
Maritime Secretary of the Student
Christian Movement. ,

Mr. Copp. pointed out significant
trends in the thinking of members
of the Movement in Canada and in
other parts of the world. He was
impressed by the remark made by
Dr. Visser 't Hooft, General Secretary
of the World Student Christian Federation, at the Couchiching Conference (Ontario), that Canadian students
are unmoved by present world events
which vitally concern students of
other countries.

The final sessions of the Conference
were devoted to a consideration of
the potential contribution of the
Movement to the Dalhousie Campus.

See eres cea

Pertinent Patter

(Continued from page 3.)

In view of the fact that this week
the Glee Club celebrates its fiftieth
anniversary with a retrospect of the
highlights of its more important shows,
it is interesting to note the following
excerpt from the Dalhousie Gazette
of Dec. 15, 1886—

“We are glad to be able to state
that at length a Glee Club has been
organized in this University, with
good prospects of success. The attendance so far has been very encouraging, and we ask all students to do what
they can to make the club a success.

“The thanks of the students are
due to the members of the Glee Club
committee for their services, and
especially to Prefessor Penny
taking charge of the training of the
club made its formation possible.”

Did you know that two miles of
kisses had to be cut out of foreign
films imported into Japan in 1935?
The censors have also cut four miles

whose

of crime and adventure which was
considered unsuitable for Japanese
morals.

 

Letters to The
Editor

(Contiaued from page 2.)

granted privilege. I suggest, Mr, Editor, that such a privilege is highly
over-emphasized. Dalhousie University does not exist solely because of
its President, its Board of Governcrs,
or its Senate, either together
part. Its student body forms an
integral part of its vitality. Without
students there is no university. Yet,
in the most vital of all matters, namely
payment for its own learning, the
student body is ruthlessly overlooked.

At one time, people fought against
taxation without representation. I
wonder how long we _ students
remain, under such circum stances, like sheep without

or in

similar
a leader.

Diffidently yours,

O. Shucks.

Try
BLUE MOON

for

LUNCHES & DANCING

after the show

CATER FOR
PRIVATE PARTIES

TABLE BOARD
$4.00 per week
25c. per meal

 

will !

the

| was

Rooting Section

Set For Tussle

(Continued from page 1)
Three energetic and capable cheer
leaders have been chosen for to
morrow’s game—Henry Reardon, Stew
Manchester, and Ray Wallace. The
Council has finally capitulated and
granted money for instruments for
the band—which instruments have
already been bought (the twenty
mentioned above). Among the boys
who will be out there tootling the

team on to victory and making the
frosh slogan—'‘Beat Acadia’’—an actuality, are reliable Johnny Morrison,
Alex Webster, Jack Burley, Frank
Morse, Henry Gold, Clem Egan,
lan Robb, and a dozen others.

Everybody remembers the tea dance |

after the Acadia game last year. The
D. A. A. C. has planned this year’s
to be an even greater success, What
could be sweeter than dancing to the
seductive strains of Don Murray with
some gorgeous girl after
that
like football,
a big crowd,

Even if you don’t
the thrill of

is expected?

don’t like

don't like band music,

don’t like tea-dancing, come on anyway and yell—it will give the old
tonsils a much-needed airing. It's

big year, folks, it’s a big year!

CS

Law Society

The Dalhousie Law Society held a

short meeting Wednesday,

30, in The Moot. Court Room. It
was announced that the second year
students had chosen Edward Arab,
Smith Maclvor, and Robert Baldwin |
as the third year students to be this
year’s Smith Shield Committee.

It was finally decided to hold the|

Law Dance on Thursday night, October |

29 Hotel with

in

the Nova Scotian
Naugler’s

, at
Jerry
dance.

ies eis
the
along

Orchestra atten:
Cook was selected to
guide destinies of the football
team the able assistance
of the Misses Margaret Drummie

with
and

Ann Hirsh. Thus a tradition which
has but commenced in the last few
seasons will not be broken. The

the victory |
| holy matrimony?

October 2nd., 1936

CASINO

Saturday—Mon.—Tuesday

 

New I. O. D. E.
Scholarship

All students will be interested in

hearing that David Lloyd MacIntosh

of Bedford has been awarded the new
John Stewart Scholarship in Medicine.
This scholarship, which has a value of
$200, has been presented by the John

 

September |

unruly

a}

 

lawyers expect to have a record turnout an endeavour to regain the
laurels which mites them last year.

in

 

Ruticel a of Glories

Continued from Page 1

up the suitable atmosphere so that the
all-important stage crew could bring
through their now famous train: Those
taking part were Betty Pearson, Marian
Geldert, George Murphy, Julius For-:
ster, Earle Fraser, and Sam Rothfeld.

Lhe evening was brought to a fast
moving modern climax by Jerry Naug-|
ler and his orchestra

 

assisted in no
by the trio which made

a hit last. year,

small manner
such Marian Geldert,
Fran Martell, and Mary Marsh, singing
some of the songs which first introduced them to Glee Club.

Of the
somewhat lack
and confused stage management, but
thé executive and the |
casts are to be congratulated on giving

necessity, show suffered

from of rehearsal,

members of

Freshmen for whom the show

really intended, some taste of

the Glee Club of ~ past that they
may do their bit in the future. _|

    
   
     
 
  

Te a ew

‘THOMAS WALLAGE

SONS and DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“Tf You Want to See Well Sce
Wallace’’

 
 

 

 
  
 
  
 
      
       
     
   

     
    
  
   

DALHOUSIE CRESTED

   

Refills

    
    
     
     
    

Acquire the Studley Habit

TRADE FROM YOURSELF
THIS STORE WAS STARTED FOR THE |

STUDENTS BY THE STUDENTS

     
 

Exercise Books

Stationery
Cigarettes

BUY YOUR LUNCHES AT

ROY ATWOOD’'S

Below the Gym. |

Pa

 

  

   

  
 

A Mystery
You’ll Never Guess

“MOONLIGHT
MURDER”

CHESTER MORRIS
MADGE EVANS

Stewart Chapter of the Imperial
Order of the Daughters of the Empire.
Dave MacIntosh, who is the holder
of both Arts and Science degrees from

Dalhousie, is well-known asa student,

a member of third year medicine, LEO DARRILLO
and as a student interested in all FRANK McHUGH
student activities, Congratulations, ee

Dave! 3 = Shorts - 3

—-——_O—_—__——

 

List Grows.

Who is the prominent Med student
who has within the last week followed
the road

GIVE US A RING

HALIFAX TAXI

to ruin, and has embraced

COMFORT COURTESY

Med students seem
to have a tendency to embark on the

CONVENIENCE
B 9644

wedded bliss—have B 7376

not five jumped off the deep end within
the past year?

WHY? Do We Sell

Most of the Upperclassmen

THEY HAVE EXPERIMENTED

seas of

 

 

 

 

 

     
   
 

AND FOUND THAT FOR
  
 

QUALITY
SATISFACTION
VARIETY
STYLE
PRICE

COLWELL’S IS TOPS

 
    
  
    
   
  

   

      
         
 

Suits from $19.50 Neckwear from .50
Shoes ‘ 3.95 Sox ¥ wou
Hats’ ji,* 2.00 Gloves f 1.00
Sweaters 2.00 Shirts 1.50

     

 

  
  

 

TRADE WITH US

Colwell Brothers Ltd.

The English Shop
453-457 BARRINGTON ST.

and

      
  
 

TEACH YOUR DOLLARS TO HAVE MORE CENTS.

  

Long Distance Gets An Answer

Right Away

What questions about members of
the family are in your mind?
Whose birthday, whose anniversary is this? What anxieties

would you like to set at rest?

Call the folks now. You’ll be
more than paid in pleasure for
the little it costs.

Low night rates are in effect after
7 p. m. every evening and all day
Sunday.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

COMPANY, LTD.

 
