   
   
  
   
   
      

“y
ae

me T

“2

ca ‘no talk of vaches et chevaus fd’ Al phonse

i
er

i

Me

ee

a he Nee
‘t

  

 
 
 
  
  

  
 
 
   
 

renal

 
   
  
  
  
     
   
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
   
  
   
  

— for t
at

rT i cetie heure.
_ redacteur of Gazette,
oe here, as my frien’ say, he’s the first

I say: Bah, mon cher Doug, no, you

f. Md
p ain.

Pete no speak to Mike much, dey only

Jury too infected by spiel of lawyers.

a re 3

a and the junior talk long time. Les|

 Maintenant 1 go,

_ Great Activity

en mon cher” Alphonse:

No, I sure have got the big job
Doug, the busy body
(he’s big shot

“bird dat get’s wormy), anyhow he say
good, next time I put the letter of you
to cousin Alphonse in my journal,
_make bigger fool of me. He say: no
you talk about life at Dalhousie.

Hier soir, 1 had big gun, mon cher
Babbitt Parlee an’ Ernest
Higgins, dey bring me to radio station.

Dey say dey go speak to Mike. I say
tres bien, i’attends ici, in little room.

git at table and talk long time one
before other. Babbitt an Ernest say
eloguemment like Lapointe dat trial
by jury is good. Two orateurs from
St. John Law School say no, not true.

ee yout ‘ink too maybe, eloquence
’ show en avec

 

i Pines an’ the
_ of of Law feel great after dat.

st week, I hear funny t’ing.
/ the reom numero trois, the senior

premiers say, | tink, date the grand
children of dem must have pity.

Here was a high, beaucoup high garcon
Graham Murray, dey callhim. Funny,
he say, pit for grandhildren because

more people go crazy now dan before.

He say also more crazy people in the
institution de plus en plus every day.
Surprise for me, because I t’ink etudiants
here in institution mot too crazy.
Lorna MacPhee, she speak also from

his side about, fe ne comprenais pas,

“fe moderne.
I did

the complexity de la
Den, Elwyn Hughes, raise up.

not like him too much, he was no

gentil. He say just about dat arguments euX-memes of others show proof
very clairement dat grandchildren need
pity. Den, oh, la, la, little co uette
girl get up. The boy of next siege to
me say she named Kay Foster. She
say, doctors will bientot keep people
living always. I t’ink dat be too bad
for den we never can go to Paradis,
n’est-ce~-pas? After she sit down, a
small man name Hector McInnes, dat
looked almost as kind as Monsieur
le Cure, raise up. He say somet’ing
very good about orateurs for everyone
clap hands. He say Senior win and

: oe get Bennett Shield. I

ink too bad Sir Wilfrid Laurier give
no shield here also to make good
orateurs liberaux, But my frien’ here
say dat such cadeau of Bennett show
him /Jiberal de coeur.

but before dat,

I must tell you wn secret. I know yo

have radio chez-vou, well ecoute ven dredi prochain.
Daniel Halpern and Roger Rand, dey
. fee on, | tink, wedder you have

You hear big debate.

 somet’ing in stomack or not chang
_ Phistoire du Monde. The radio-diffu
BS sion is at 9 by your clock, so don’t

~ let dat get out of your head. Mainten
me I go for good. So bonjour to you,

pur to your parents, and kiss your
sisters Rhea, Dona, Yvonna, Leonia,
ucia and Rosalba for me, and shake

d of brothers Louis, Mederic,
ace, Athanose and Louis-Charles

oes \,’ An revoir, Cousin,

m3 ma ?

_LIONCEAU.
your other sisters

Kiss dem.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
  
 
 
 
   
     
   
        
  

quite some criticism

 

 

Basketball
Dal vs. Mt. A.
Sat. Night
8.15 at Gyn

Dancing after

Game

 

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 12th, 1937

 

 

Reading from left to right we present Sodales’ Debaters—Babbitt Parlee and Ernest Higgins, who represented the Dalhousie Law School

‘To The Editors of the Gazette.

Sirs:

There has been lately, as usual,
of Glee Club
presentations. It is, indeed, one of
the minor traditions of the student
press, and a desirable one.

We suggest that many of the inadequacies so criticised are dtie to
lack of adequate facilities for rehearsing. On Wednesday of this week
three plays were presented, and the
Glee Ciub asked for the use of the
Gym on Tuesday night for dress
rehearsal. We were told that it was
reserved for girls’ Badminton and
that we could not have the use of it

till ten-thirty—which we accepted.
But this -produced an _ undesirable
strain on the casts, and shortened

the time for rehearsal.

There were at no time more than
twelve people playing badminton, and
at ten o'clock there were six only.
One official of the girls’ athletic association, when approached on the
matter, said that the girls would have
been quite willing to waive their
reservation, but because some members
of the faculty had rather freely interpreted an invitation given them
to play badminton with the girls
some time ago, it was a very “delicate”
matter. It seems to us that adequate
time is permanently set aside for the
special use of the faculty.

We bring this point to your attention, not because of any peculiarity
it has. We do it so that it may be
recalled when we present our periodical
request for more unrestricted use of
the Gym for dramatic purposes, and
particularly, of the stage for stage
purposes. We would like to mention
here last years’ Munro Day show.
It was generally said to have been a
good presentation, but it was injured
by the fact that the fairly elaborate
staging had to be removed till just
before the show for the purposes of
some features which were—well, short
in time. We may point out that the
obviously important speeches would
not have necessitated this removal
at all.

Thanking you for your valuable
space, we are,

Yours respectfully,
Glee Club Management.

university radio debate against Mt. Allison tonight.

Sigma Chi Wins| Senate Protests

\Dibe* again we are Y cor rerleed 6
hear a real symphony orchestra. Once
more the university presents to its
students the opportunity to enjoy
the high aesthetic values of the masterpieces of music.

The Student Council has realized the
need and the benefits to be derived
from such an endeavor and has set
about the task of reorganizing the
Dalhousie Symphony Orchestra. They
are sparing no effort in their desire to
make this orchestra as fine as any
that Dalhousie has ever enjoyed.

They have been fortunate in securing
the services of Mr. Oscar Welti who
has agreed to conduct. Mr. Welti
is a graduate of the Zurich Conservatory of Music where he was a pupil
of the world-renowned concert violinist,
Joseph Szigeti. He has also been
connected with the National Symphony,
The Boston Symphony, as well as
The Montreal Symphony.

Besides making the presentation of
musical comedies and light operas
possible, it is also an objective of the
Dalhousie Symphony Orchestra to
present musicales and concerts.

In order to realize this fully, the
hearty co-operation of the Student
Body is necessary. Recruits for the
orchestra are needed. It is an endeavour
of which Dalhousians of the present
and future may well be proud. Therefore, it is the duty of all music players
to help fill this demand. Rehearsals
are held every Thursday evening,
8.15 P. M. at the Maritime Business
College, 73 College St. For further
information, ask officials of the Glee
Club or call B-2403.

   

   
   
 

   

APPLICATIONS FOR
POSITIONS OF

Editor of Dalhousie Gazette.
Editor of Dalhousie Year Book.
Business Manager, Dalhousie
Gazette.
Business Manager, Year Book.
Applications for the abovementioned positions for the year
1937-38 will be received by the
undersigned up to 6 p. m., Saturday, February 20th.
Applications must be in writing and should state the qualifications of the applicant.

Signed, M. M. RANKIN,

Secretary~Treasurer.
40 Vernon St., Halifax, N.S.

   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
     
     
   
    
  
     
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
 

  
     
   
    
     
   
   
    
  
     
  
  
    
  
  
   
   

   
  
   
    
     
   
   
    
  
     
  
  
    
  
  
   
  

“Connolly, Shield

The Bias Chi fraternity, with their
first entry in dramatic competition,
“The Rehearsal’, captured the Conholly Shield

Following the final curtain, Prof.
Bennett, Head of the English Dept
at the University and adjudicator for
the competition, discussed the plays
and showed how he had made his choice.

With regard to the plays in general,
the adjudicator spoke highly of both
plays and actors and also handed a
bouquet to the audience for their
sympathetic recéption of all the plays.
Of the first three plays—Dental Society,
Delta Gamma, and Pine Hill—he
named the offering of the Dental
Society the best. This play was in
the more serious vein and was well
acted, but might have had more
variety of action to compensate for
the general atmosphere of quiet and
inaction created by the lines. The
Delta Gamma play was, he said,
really no play at all, but was sustained
by several excellent characterizations.
The Pihe Hill play, however, had good
possibilities but was evidently not
sufficiently rehearsed.

The adjudicator found a _ great
similarity in tone of the plays of the
night—all were acting the
part of actors. These were presented
by Newman Club, Education, and
Sigma Chi. Of the Newman Club
presentation, Prof. Bennett remarked
that the players ‘played up to the
audience and took advantage of every
opportunity to make a laugh, The
Education play, much in the same
tone, might perhaps have had a little
less burlesque. The Wife, as played
by Margaret Lantz was ideal in the
opinion of the adjudicator. The winner, Sigma Chi, had all the ingredients
of a good play well done. The only
unfortunate point about the play was
the fact that it was elaborately costumed and hence conceivably beyond
the reach of some other, poorer organizations. Given particular mentipn
were Jack Arnell as “Mr. Hughes”
and Lou Archibald as ‘‘ William Shakespears.’

second

In general, the adjudicator congratulated the various casts and urged
that the plays chosen in future be
suitable for collegians to present to
collegiate audiences,

 

in debate against St. John Law School); Daniel Halperin and Roger Rand, who will represent Dal in the annual

 

On Tuesday night the Glee Club

required the whole gymnasium floor
for rehearsal, at 10 p. m. The girls
and the faculty badminton players
did not know this and went on playing.
At 10.15 the Glee Club players started
to switch the lights off and on and
continued until 10.30 when the badminton players were left in total darkness,

The women and faculty badminton
players are very sorry that they did
not know the Glee Club required the
floor for their rehearsal. Had they
been told, they would have left immediately. The trouble seems to have
been in failing to notify the Secretary
of the Students’ Gymnasium Committee in writing.

We understand that the girls and
faculty badminton players are quite
upset at being ‘‘switched” out of the
gymnasium in this ungallant manner.
Wherefore, the Senate Gymnasium
Committee wishes to notify all whom
it may concern that any notice respecting the use of the gymnasium or the
reservation thereof must be in writing
and handed in to Mr. John Carroll,
Secretary, Student Gymnasium Committee, ai least one week before such
use or reservation is required.

C. H. Mercer,
Chairman, Senaie Gymnasium Committee.

February 10, 19387.

 

Radiotime

Thursday night the Medical boys
were the main feature on Dal’s radio
programme, along with the fine singing
of the Dal-songsters. The interview
was very successful and we congratulate the Med students who helped
in this program, and for bringing the
name of the Med School of Dalhousie
to the many radio listeners.

YEAR BOOK NOTICE

FLASH -—Less than 100 Year
Books left to be sold. Anyone
who desires one had better sign
for one immediately.

Those who ordered a Year
Book last year and did not receive same are urged to see Henry
Reardon pronto.

No. 16

LHOUSIE LAWYERS DECIDE “TRIAL BY JURY”

3 Sodales Shows


Bench Upholds
Jury System

Sodales scored again last Tuesday
night over the Maritime Network
of the C. B. C. Our representatives,
Babbitt Parlee and Ernest Higgins,
received the unanimous decision over
the St. John Law School. The polemic
that gave rise to the interesting debate
was resolved that trial by Jury should
be abolished. Leader Parlee and colleague Higgins with double-edged arguments, good radiophonic voices and
the adequate touch of eloquence doctored indeed the bruised feelings of our

lawyers over last Fall’s defeat. Chief
Justice J. B. Baxter, Justice J. S.
Harrison, of the Supreme Court of
New Brunswick and Justice W. L.
Hall of the Supreme Court of Nova
Scotia were judges.

George McInerney of St. John
opened the pleadings. After carefully
setting the grounds of battle, he

proceeded to affirm that the function
of Jury in our modern times is not so
important as it is supposed. ‘‘Weaknesses of juries have the most devastating effect upon our legal mechanism.’ Jurors cannot discern between
material evidence and irrelevant facts
of the case. A Jury’s antipathy for
corporations is a known fact, and
this is so to such an extent that, in
such cases, barristers never choose
the twelve good men and true.

Babbitt Parlee with his inimitable
style of delivery, emphatically denied
that the Jury system was obsolete.
“We do not say that the jury is the
best means of trying all cases; but we
do say that the system as at present
constituted is perfect. It is an essential element of the English judicial
system and it’s abolition would mean
the removal of one of the main pillars
upon which British justice stands.”

Raymond Dumas, second speaker
from St. John, tackled with virility
the problem. ‘“‘The burden imposed
upon a juror is too great. These men
are not prepared to discern the important legal evidence. Substitution
of Jury to three Judges in major cases
would bring more equitable, efficient
and speedy conclusions to actions.

Ernest Higgins, concluded the debate by five minutes of snappy argumentation. He rebutted practically
point for point the speeches of the
opponents. ‘Juries help the litigant
in that it creates no precedent and
decides facts unhampered by technical
principles, It applied common sense
as the best and only means of judging
circumstances.”

 

“Hay Fever’’

24th, the
under
will

On Wednesday, March
newly-formed Dramatic Society,
the auspices of the Glee Club,
offer the feature presentation of the
year. The play selected is Noel
Coward’s ‘‘Hay Fever’, a satirical
comedy in three acts.

Generally acknowledged to be the
finest production of Coward's wit,
“Hay Fever’ contains the story of an
extraordinary week-end which a clever
but eccentric family spends in fulfilling the duties of hospitality to four
widely-assorted guests. Written in
Coward's ultra-sophisticated style, this
play is the first presentation of a series
conceived for the purpose of offering
Dalhousie audiences something superior
to the slap-stick type of play too
often inflicted on student spectators
in the past.

. ‘
an a eS eee Sa a ee ee ee Ee “te ni tor

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
  
    
     
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
     
   
   
   
  
 
  
   
    
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  

GAZETTE STAFF.

Reese res er es aeons.
I. M, MacKEIGAN, M.A. — J. D. CREASE, B.A.
Sh te nies <i eG Ph. B-5787
J i i. | 4 Jagr Associales.
Ba John Fisher : Edward Arab, B.A.
Edward S. MacLatchy, B.A. P. S, Macnutt
Elizabeth Pearson Kaye Sircom
Geo. H. Murphy, B.A. Elwyn O. Hughes
+ ease Biliok: Sports Editor.
ROLAND HURST ARCHIE B. MacKENZIE
‘Ph, B-3427 Ph. B-3824
ire eens roe Associates.
L. A. Landreville, B.A. Earle Fraser, B.A.
Roy Gold, B.Sc. Arthur Merkel
Jack Reynolds Peggy Merkel
Business Manager. Assisiant Business Manager.
GORDON K. DALEY B. Com. R. L. ARMSTRONG B.A.
Ph, B-5700 ae Phone B-5700
Proof Editor

. CHARLES A. ROBERTS

 

QUO VADIS?

A college education often seems to be no more than a suceeding series of impacts of allegedly inspiring sayings. Preached
at eternally, the student becomes conditioned to inspiration—
: no response is invoked, and living aphorisms become dead bromides.
‘We are told so frequently of the importance of bringing a little
---—-—s« Sweetness and light into our lives, of reading plenty of “good
books’, of seeing life fully and seeing it whole, that we no longer
are affected, but turn away, cynical slaves of the slogan, with

a sneer upon our lips.
~~. Too many of us prefer rather, as Ivor Brown suggests, to
discover the refreshing fruits of emancipation by spending one
Saturday night after another in the company of semi-anthropoid
gino _ eroticism. - That cynicism and indifference, that rude and rudimentary dilletantism, are besetting sins against which we all
t guard. Let us remember from both the individual and the
2¢ t, that th st easy to deceive is the recipient

ducation which has failed to be sufficiently high.

ety

7

a period oe

 
 
   
  

“
‘ ar

   

   
    
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
    
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
    
    

ectual and moral equipment which
more useful lives?

pier and

7}

  

jf ¢}.

THE NATIONAL STUDENT PEACE PETITION

4 j igo
—" te
5

- .

Se lee
ae

An erroneous impression was unfortunately created by a
eer oe headline on the front page of last week’s Gazette.
_ ‘The heading suggested that the movement for a peace petition
was a movement for a “neutrality program.’ As we understand
a it, such is not the aim of this movement. It is rather to elicit
_ from our government a definite pronouncement on Canada’s
pt. foreign policy. In particular, as the petition declares, what is
desired is the abolition of the present power of conscription at
_ the will of the Governor-General-in-Council, and an unequivocal
declaration that it is only the Canadian Parliament which can
i a involve Canada in war.

Ga As to the first objective, little need we say. The second,
however, has been interpreted as a plea for a so-called “‘isolationist’ policy. Such an interpretation is wrong; all that is asked is
that Canada do as her sister-dominion South Africa, has done—

that officially it be clearly understood that Canadians and not
_ the war-lords of Britain are the ones to decide whether Canadians
shall die in the “Next War’’. At present the constitutional
Situation in this regard is not clear; it is asked that it be made
_ clear. To ask this is not to be anti-British—it is to be pro-Cana__._ dian and British in the best sense. The petition asks that we plain___ly proclaim in matters of foreign policy the attainment by Canada
‘of a nation’s maturity within the British Commonwealth.

ae

rs
<
ms

it
—
Sy

We conclude by heartily endorsing this petition which will
_ soon be circulated on this campus, and all for which it stands.

AN ANOMALY
(Contributed)

ae Once a year all Dalhousie students are required to visit the

Public Health Clinic for a thorough medical examination where
Special attention is given to examining our chests for symptoms
Of tuberculosis and in testing our eyes so that any defects may
___ be discovered and cured as soon as possible. This Clinic is housed
in a modern building which gives you an impression of sanitation
_ the moment you enter it, and it is open to the poor of the City
__ for free medical and surgical treatment.

A short distance away is the Forrest Building, shabby and
ee Sgt aan where over 400 students daily attend lectures and
___ do laboratory and library work. Here these students have to
breathe foul air, work under poor lighting conditions, and shiver
in cold weather because of inadequate heating. Such conditions
_ breed physical ailments which in the modern building across the
street medical men are employed to discover and cure.

7.
ae ey
A ¥
.

s i

housie has money to spend on a clinic for the benefit of
e of Water Street, but no funds are available to provide
lation, lighting and heating in the building where
's, lawyers and dentists of Canada and United States
neces education to fit them for their professions.

<n any
ry te

a
=
¢ ee

‘=

ey entory of ourer ‘ae e we drifting?

 

facilities provided at

  

—

  

; DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

What’s Wrong With The Maritimes

(A Series—continued from last
week).

Causes.

In provinces as politically conscious
as these it is natural that various
reasons should be advanced for the
cause of this retrogression. The political leaders however in most cases
irrespective of party have heaped
all blame upon confederation. This
is the union that brought evilin its wake.
In all fairness however it must be
admitted that there was never an
spoken and unanimous pro-confederation feeling prior to the union. The
question of whether these criticisms
of Confederation are just and in
keeping with history presents itself.
It is the firm opinion of this writer
that the relative decline in prosperity
was not due to confederation alone
but to factors that happened to be
contemporaneous but in no way connected with it. For instance it was
at this time that the iron ship was
coming to the fore which gradually
displaced the wooden ships and s0
went the Maritimes chief industry—
shipbuilding. This not only meant
less employment but it also hit hard
upon the lumbering industry. Shortly
prior to confederation also came the
wave of higher tariffs in the United
States which closed the markets for
maritime products such as lumber
fish and potatoes. But this is not all
The world at this period was experiencing the forces of an industria
revolution, the growth of large industry. Manufacturing industry must
be located in regions where the markets
are best. Was it not then quite
natural that industry should approximate the populous cities of Ontario
and Quebec rather than the sparsely
peopled Maritimes? Even without
Confederation it seems certain that the
economic advantages were not suffi
cient inducement to warrant the
establishment of manufacturing industry in the Atlantic provinces. Yet

Confederation according to some is
the sheep in wolf's clothing that
brought this situation upon us. There
are still other reasons for the decline
of Maritime prosperity chief among
which are these: Great changes in
merchandising were coming, large commerical houses, chain stores, etc,
It was natural that these too should
‘seek establishment where capital and
markets were more abundant. Again
Central Canada took the spotlight.
Thus the stable and easy hand to
mouth economy of the Maritimes was
not matched for the new economic and
commercial order that grew. Even
despite these social and economic
changes the Maritimes continued to
provide a stable and quiet living.
But it was the stories of the booms
in other parts of Canada and the
United States that created the veil of
gloom. But in comparing the prosperity and development in the West
and other regions of Canada and the
United States with the Maritimes is
to becloud the issue. Many fail to
realize that the Maritimes were already
settled and that the West was a virgin
country experiencing the boom of
pioneer development and that the
manufacturing centres of Ontario and
Quebec as the logical and in fact only
places were busily supplying the needs
of these frontier lands. The United
States too was pioneering and booming
with the influx of foreigners. Naturally, in comparison the Maritimes
appeared to be more depressed than
the facts show. Couple this with the
picture they drew of the prosperity
of their former shipbuilding days and
one can see why thousands of young
people lost hope and migrated West
while those that remained were enshrouded in *gloom and saw nothing
but adversity surround them. Yet
upon the shoulders of confederation
are heaped the blame for all ills. Is
it fair? Did not confederation help
the situation by giving free entry to
their products in the markets of Canada? Was it not these moving forces
together with the apathy of the people
in standing aloof to the changes that
placed Canada’s Atlantic provinces
in their present status?
(To be continued next week).
$s

The sins to which people confess
are generally those of which they are
secretly proud.—Bertrand Russell,

MARTIN’S LTD.

—Diamond Merchants—
GIFT HEADQUARTERS

Spring Garden Road
B-7487

 

 

 

ae =
c me eee
FA hall : Fr
sa

  
 

“7h ae

a

| Council Spends

7 ; 7 z a A - 5 7 Me oo am Piven *
Bi i Midian Sk ne ol 1 act ea ante Oy ee et

  
 

We have always heard of women
going on spending sprees. But, none
can rival the spree taken by the
Council last Sunday afternoon.

With permanent Secretary Murray
Rankin absent, together with such
conservative members as the Misses
Helen Holman and Mabel MacKenzie,
not to mention ‘Economies’ Maclvor
who is so wrapped up in his big political
doings, and Johnny Carroll, the remaining Councillors passed everything
in sight.

The first expenditure related to the
Dalhousie Bulletin. The little sheet
has gained such wide-spread popularity
that the Council believe it should be
taken from the experimental stage and
made a permanent organization around
the land of Dal. So they passed an
appropriation for some $80.00 for a
stencil machine. ‘‘Can’t keep a penny”
Ross then made a motion that the
editor be awarded a salary of $15.00
for the remainder of the year.

Sheila Stewart of the Delta Gamma
Society next took the stand. Her
story was as follows, ‘‘Please, Mr.
President, there is no interest in Delta
Gamma. The Girls will not turn
out to meetings. We wish to take the
money we have set aside for lunches
at the meetings and spend it for an
informal dance at the Hall”. Moved
by Hurst and seconded by Ross that
the girls be allowed to spend the
remainder of their money for an
informal party. (Ross says to Hurst,
“Guess that oughta get us there.’’)

Doc Roy and Murray Berkowitz
take the stand ably backed by Mr.
Harry Dean of the Maritime Academy
of Music. :

HAL CONNOR

We present this week Hal Connor—
a student who since his retirement
to the professional school is perhaps
not as well known to all as he should
be. Hal, a final year law student,
is well liked and greatly respected
by all who know him—a good Dalhousian, a fine friend, a_ brilliant
student, a great athlete, and a gentleman. What more need be said.

That such praise is no exaggeration
is shown by his record. For six
years Hal has starred on the senior
football team; for many years he
played on the senior hockey team;
and he still has time for interfaculty
basketball and hockey and for badminton. In student activities he has
been no less prominent—a member
of Class ’34 in Arts he was for two
years President of his class and also
class representative on the Students’
Council. He has also been president
of his fraternity—Phi Kappa Pi.
In studies Hal’s star has shone equally
bright—rare has been the occasion
when he has not secured a First in
any class he has taken.

These gentlemen were of the opinion
that Dalhousie’s crying need was a
symphony orchestra. But a symphony
orchestra costs money. First, they
have to have a leader, then they have
to have music and, last but not least
they have to have a place to practice in.

And then began the fight. Why
can’t they use the Glee Club stageToo noisy. Why can’t they use the
‘Munro Room? No piano, Why can’t
they use the lower Gym? No ventila‘tion, Finally some bright lad hit
upon the idea of using Sherriff Hall.
But that was no go, It appears that
was the place practice was held originally and after the practices the boys
were allowed to stay and dance. (This
was in the days of Sina Singer. But
them days is gone forever) Some
of the boys stayed a little too long

one evening and presto—no more
practices were allowed.
The battle went on for hours.

Finally the Symphonists won their
point and received a grant of 40 bucks.

Reardon up: “Gentlemen, this year
we have an _ intercollegiate hockey
team. This means another picture
and so I will have to have another
$76.00". Passed.

Gold up: The Year Book will be
out on Munro Day. Students desiring
copies had better get in touch with
the council representatives because
Gold and Reardon say they will be
unable to fill the demand.

a:
WIND

British

Doc Roy up: ‘Gentlemen, I wish
to obtain permission to levy a charge
for the coming Glee Club Show. The
proceeds to be devoted to the Red
Cross for the benefit of the refugees in
the flood districts of the United States.”
This proposal met with almost wholehearted approval.

Mr. Thompson and Mr. Roy: These
two lads are also having their difficulties. It appears that at present for
various reasons the students are deprived of the use of the Gymnasium
three nights per week. What with
the arrival of the Public Administration lectures the Gym officials are in
a quandary as to how they are to
satisfy all.

165 HOLLIS ST.

It was openly asserted that the
Faculty are not considering studen
interests. Letters on various problems relative to student interests
have been repeatedly sent to the
University Office, and are not treated
with due consideration. And so Dalhousie has another internal conflict
on her hands.

Large Discount off

  

Regular Prices
to Students

In view of the lack of prospects for
the editorship of the Dalhousie Gazette
for 1937-38 it was decided to call for
applicants immediately.

       
 

And so the tired and dejected
Councillors called it a day and went
home.

MEYERS

AND NOW YOU SEE WHERE

426 BARRINGTON ST.
YOUR MONEY GOES,

6 ‘
+. r a

y ;
\ » t a
_ =
. ‘ «
2 ¢— -. :

. i
Pe Xd

: ae a eee ee i =e
oe is Pay; a eee a igs? a En a i — ee ees
ra the wie ts + " oe tee Ps, net Re o a, '
; fo me — .; ms aes i a
J . + a a as em
‘ “ie a = ' “y =
I f d {

To You--
lits attendant evils.

 

Chu

 

Photographers to Dalhousie

12 HOUR FINISHING SERVICE

—Canada’'s Largest Photographic Organization—

February 12th, 1987

Rubber Exchange

It has been generally agreed that
Winter is again upon us, and with it
Foremost among
these is the wearing of rubbers and
the switching. thereof. Strange indeed is the man who finished the season
with the same pair with which he
started. To many, this is a problem,
which because it is approached in the
proper spirit, has become an enjoyable
and absorbing pastime.

Notwithstanding its many diversities, no one as yet has stepped forward
to propose rules and regulations governing this fascinating sport. Now it
has fallen upon our shoulders, and so
we humbly present the following
rules to help clarify the situation.

1. No exchanging shall take place
unless the exchanger leave a substitute
pair. This eliminates the charge of
burglary.

2. The pair left as a substitute
must at least resemble a pair of rubbers. As the popular old saying goes,
“Pretty fair exchange is no robbery.”

3. The substitute pair shall fit
different feet, that is , must not consist of two rights, or, vice versa, of
two lefts. Two rights do not make a
right.

With these simple rules in mind
an interesting winter lies ahead for
all, and so, with a ‘‘Let’s go, Team!
and a “Fight! Fight! Fight!’”’. We wish
you the best of luck and good hunting.

McGill Daily.

— -—_Q - ——

Confession

When I remember how my time is
passed

And half the term in idleness now
gone,

And my good resolutions all foregone
Though made with hope sincere, my
heart beats fast

For fear examinations at the last

Find me unable answers true to con,
And earn disapprobation from the don.
Why do I slack, and from me daily cast

The studies that my profs. from me
demand? :
A thousand curses on my state, I cry,

A thousand better things than study’s

toil

Call my attention from my _ books,

that stand

Untouched by me. But now towork
l'll try,

And haply find some pleasure in the
moil,

 

 

Consols
OL O

| Underwood Portable Typewriter:

can now be purchased on time payments without
interest or carrying charges.

Prices from $45.00 to $85.00

Terms as low as $4.05 per month.

UNDERWOOD, ELLIOTT, FISHER LIMITED

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

   
  
  
    
      
 
  

Films Developed with
double size prints at

no extra costs.

STUDIOS

B-7066

  

   

 

 
   
  

  

w book has been published in| &
entitled “The Pig Murder’. | §
: < deals with the killing of]
9 : or _ ~pigs in 1915, which affair |
is attributed to Jewish professors in|
their attempt to destroy Germany’s|
- m of et eeaishinient: during | - ‘ee
_ The hidcelliiasad of the reader of
a college newspaper is supposedly
above average. This fact creates a
difference from the ordinary relationship between writer and reader because the latter always has a sneaking
suspicion that he could¥do a better
job if only he cared to try. Usually
he doesn’t care to try, but not because
he lacks the opportunity. It’s only
.| the initiative that is missing.
However when he’s been carrying
an idea and a grudge in his head for
three years, he’s bound to burst forth
some time. One guy in particular
has and did. We're printing what
he had to say as one great column.
He’s asking for it, but in heaven’s
mame leave us out of the roaring
rebuttals. We're only the medium
in presenting :—

 
 
 
 

   
 

 
  

  

  
   
   

iza 1 in their secret aim at
pe ination over the whole earth.
only is the: author considered
_ Sane and allowed to go about unguardMi | but this whole affair of the “St.

  

       
 
 

   
 

 
    
 

  

SU es the iatawtic sean: tions of a
ec ee NER. 2 when one learns

 
 
 
 
    

  

- item the further news that a famous
artist and director of one of Munich's
ae ‘schools eoeacmret oe suicide when

  
       
 

Et te Ponekiowd unfit to contribute
to Germany’s cultural life, that the
a German military budget for 1936-37
will total 12,600,000,000 marks, that
= _ the Bakers Guild has announced
BS a that doughnuts and other pastries
__ will be made only twice a week in
order to save fats, the continuing
Bee declining standard of living of the
people one cannot help but feel that
beneath the solemn countenance of
a _ “Der Fuehrer’’ there lies an unfathomBs able depth of sardonic humour when
he describes his regime as “the most
A a beautiful Democracy”.

 
     
     
 

Halifax and Halifax Women

 
   
 

Having lived in this fair city for
three years I have formed an opinion
which I have never seen expressed
in the Gazette but which (deep down
in their hearts) is held by many.

For a city the size of Halifax l
have never seen such a small town,
People attribute this small townishness to the fact that Halifax is a
garrison city and of immediate English
descent (slight lofting of the nose).
I will not argue that point as I do not
enjoy having an advantage over an
adversary. Neither the grape-vine in
Sing Sing, nor the telephone line in a
rural community, is so effective, so
far-reaching and complete as_ the
system by which gossip spreads about
this city. The youths of this city
grow up with a shield about them,
fearing detection if they wander from
‘| the straight and narrow—and think}
jof the fun they miss. Wake up
| Noe, and have some fun.

Me The girls of our fair city (note the
n. | position of adjective) _ are a_ varied
ach ter group. For dancing ability and charm
ac og they ; are average and open to com: | paris n with the fair sex of other
\cities. But here, approval ends—
‘as for being good conversationalists,
‘the ones I have met come under the
caption of ‘dumb’. They forget that
this is a college town, with six hundred
young men starving for affection and
attention; they forget that we are
sentenced here for only four years,
after which we probably never will
return; they forget that there is such
a thing as a college sweetheart, or a
college love-affair; they must receive
solemn vows of true love and proof
thereof before becoming anything but
a classmate or a friend. Collegiate
ideas are the backbone of college
spirit and college love-affairs are the
main-stays of collegiate ideas. There
is your answer to the popular question
—‘‘Where’s our college spirit?”

One other criticism of the local
ladies is their lack of logic (note alliteration). In most communities it
is the habit for the girls to entertain
their boy-friends occasionally in their
homes, to invite them in for a snack
after a show, but the barricade that
falls between the door-step and the
sill of most of our friends’ homes is
impregnable, or I haven't got what
it takes. If a boy is to see a girl
only when they attend a dance or a
show the novelty soon wears thin
and so does the pocket-book.

So girls, I advise you to ‘“‘cast your
bread upon the waters’ and it will be
returned as cake,

    
       
    
 

  

 
   
    

 
 
 

lag The framers of the American Conc e A stitution, influenced by the views of
ahi French writers that the only safeguard
ae” ab liberty was the division of governAes =i 2 _mental powers into the legislative,

; rl ju udical and executive, devised a con
| Be eric of checks and balances whereby the powers of government would
: e divided among the three different
stitutions of government so that
the: - “one could check tendencies toards autocracy Fs the others. ‘The

      

  

  
 

  

 
    

   

 

         

  

      
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

rig
haat

 
 

othe acer fox the need
ae or inciple of the freedom of contract
Ae tes the tendency of modern
© democracy, the adapting of our traditional form of government to meet
new conditions. On the one extreme
“ is the doctrine of freedom of contract
a I dhich would enable a modern public
= utility to exploit the public and on
/ the ‘other is state ownership with
its incidents of curbed initiative and
 bureau€tatic stagnancy. The tendeney of modern democracy is to achieve
a middle course between these two
extremes by allowing private initiative
_ to go on yet at the same time to regulate
and control that private ownership
re _ in the public interest. Public Utilities
Boards, Workmen’s Compensation
_ Boards, Social Insurance and MiniBF * Re mum Wage Legislation are the only
impregnable bulwarks of Democracy
3, Be against the onslaughts of Communism
a and Fascism.

       

    
    

    
      

    
       
     
    
       
     
       
          
 

    
 
 

    
   
  
    

Be DO YOU KNOW THAT—

  
   
 

| In 1884 a professional educa
| tion could be obtained at Dal
2 housie for as little as $150.00
=f a year including board?

‘3 _ The following is an extract
. eae | from an advertisement in a
‘S.. college publication at that time:
a | i “Owing to large endowments

Bs | possessed by the School, the
'§ are enabled to make
* | tuition fees so low as to give
a wath > greatest possible encourage_ mi ent to legal education :—

S726 & SG © ALP ti 6 ¢ «

  
      
     
    

 
   
 
 

      
 

  

A FED-UP JUNIOR,

 
 
  
   

    
 
 
 

  
   
 
 
 

The Name of BIRKS

Stands for a National Jewellery service by twelve Birks
stores, situated across Canada
| from Halifax to Vancouver,
a service animated by ideals
of honesty, courtesy and
quality.

  

Ae ele ¢ e-9 #8

 
    
 
    

 
  
  
 
 
 

  
 

ae _Students, ep teeming Jclube,
- a n obtain board at a much
_ | lower rate than four dollars per
» and the amount to be
nded on books is entirely
i _ their discretion. Stu
  

  

   

You may rely on Birks.

 
   
 

  
 
   

  
  
 

ts have taken the course
ae a expetiege: fox ‘one
dre cee |

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants

    

Jand what we won't pick up will be

 
 
  
 
 

BN cee. Katee J ie ;
TR ae AG ol TST ax
et" fiat wht ee ey cy

: ~

' a * it

~

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

. Pete
The Garbage Man

Well, foiks, this is our first day on
the beat but just watch us pick up—

  
   
 
 
 
    
  
  

Faculty Tyrants
(A Contributed Editorial)

Internal! dissatisfaction is the biggest
hindrance to the welfare of any organization and from: the evidence given
at the last meeting of the Students’
Council there is dissatisfaction with
‘the manner in which the faculty of
Dalhousie have usurped the students’
privileges in the Gymnasium.

Some time ago certain student
representatives requested the use of
the faculty squash court when it was
disengaged. This sanctum, as we understand, is located somewhere back
of the Glee Club stage and, if the
facts are correct, the professors have
not exactly worn out the floor with
their use of the room.

Along comes the University which
finds it mecessary for the benefit
of the new Public Affairs Institute
to use the spacious structure frequently. This is a good cause and
who is there to say the Senate is not
right in its demand?

But then the faculty have the
Gymnasium on Saturday evening for
badminton. This alsoisas it should be.

The girls are allowed Tuesday
evenings. In the past, however, they
have rarely used it. This year the
faculty say—‘If we can play on your
courts you can play with our birds.”
And so they have muscled in on
another night. Pretty smooth. The
girls turn up in ridiculously small
numbers and the professors play.

The situation goes even deeper.

In the past one or two student
representatives have repeatedly written
university officials on various matters.
But—they receive no The
letters are apparently lost in the mail.
The University, the Faculty, or whoever is the power behind the throne,
refuse even to recognize student authority.

Such is the problem. What is to
be done about the Gymnasium situation? We wish to give the alumni
and faculty the greatest use of the
Gymnasium su‘ject to studem prioray.
At present athletic and social activities
are greatly hampered by what, we
submit, is an excessive pre-emption
by the faculty of gymnasium: privileges.
What is the solution?

neither pickable nor printable. Old
‘Pete made a clean sweep this week
and consequently one or two people
will be just as comfortable as Roly
Hurst at an engineer's picnic. Now
for the first scoop from the overflowing garbage can......

Johnny ‘Rotund’ Carroll apparently
carries a lot of weight at Dal but for
a prize ‘boner’ he takes the cake.
It seems that a dozen frosh debating
enthusiasts gave him their names
for the Bennett Shield trials and true
to his ‘form’ he promptly lost them.
As a result there were two debaters
who were not representative. I guess
about the only thing Johnny can’t
lose is weight... ...

And speaking of the (un) popularity
contest, which we weren't, a deep
mystery has arisen; the gym store
missed seven issues of the Gazette
issue containing the voting blank.
Later Pete saw them walking gaily
home under Betty Pearson's arm..
the plot thickens....contest sponsor
Gold announces Betty is in the running
with eight votes...... Mystery???

Pete nominates .........:..,; Fran
Drummie and Duff Stewart, also
Marian Little for the year-book contest. I had to stick Duff in because
I couldn’t isolate Fran (still small
voice—but why put Fran in?)......

To start a little competition freshysofty Bob Walter is going to run a
counter-contest entitled: ‘‘Who is the
best-looking chap at Dal—and why
am 1’, Pahdon me while I return
both contests to the garbage can......

Should there be a contest to decide
the student’s best friend, Old Pete
will nominate Bill Crooke. You see
a friend in need is a friend indeed—
any Bill is always in need. And while
speaking of bills and crooks who is
getting the graft on the graduation
picture racket—and if not, why not? |

Prof. MacKay could not tell Shaggy
‘Mahon whether any books had been
written on the King’s abdication.
Evidently Dr. MacKay never heard
of ‘Gone with the Wind’... Tut tut,
with Prof., tut tut, Peteknows a little
poem about the King who went the wind.

“Yesterday upon the stair _
I met a man who wasn’t there
He wasn’t there again today,
I wish to hell he’d go away.”

A little incident involving Dick
Murphy at last Saturday’s ‘open
house’ at Phi Delta Theta inspired
Pete to pen the following:

Son: Daddy—what’s a Frat?

Daddy: Oh, it’s a bit of this

And a bit of that.

A dozen boys

In a double flat

With lots of noise

And little thought,

A little poise,

And all such rot.

That, my son
Is a local frat.

Son: Is that a fact?
Daddy: No, that’s a frat.

WE GIVE YOUR VOICE
A BOOST

When you talk over the long distance telephone, the voice currents lose their strength
after travelling a certain distance, just as a
bullet shot out of a rifle will travel only so far.

How to keep the voice currents from dying
out was a puzzler not so many years ago,
until telephone engineers adapted and perfected amplifying devices and developed them
into an effective telephone ‘“‘repeater’’. This
gives the voice currents successive boosts
unti] they reach their destination.

answer.

GIVE US A RING

- HALIFAX TAXI

COMFORT COURTESY

CONVENIENCE

B 7376 B 9644

 

Insist on getting
Donovan’s Beverages
including
Dublin Dry Ginger Ale
Donovan’s Orange Juice
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B 6821

 

The perfected repeater is one of many develapments which the telephone engineers have
made and are making today to improve the
eae with which you can talk to anyone, anywhere, anytime.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

COMPANY, LTD.

oe a ek

       

 
 

 

 

 

 

Page Three

ee
“What would you say if we had to spend the night
in this snowbank?”’
That all depends on how many Sweet Caps you have!”

    
 
  

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

€ ‘ ,
The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” — {"ancet

CASINO |

Saturday
Monday & Tuesday

“SING ME A
LOVE SONG”

with
JAMES MELTON

PATRICA ELLIS
HUGH HERBERT
ZASU PITTS
ALLEN JENKINS
NAT PENDLETON

  

 

DRUGS

 

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

When You Need
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

better SERVICE VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

You get and

at

HAVE YOUR LEATHER GOODS REPAIRED
by

KELLY'S LTD.

At Reasonable Prices

118 GRANVILLE sT.

Established 1876 Phone B-6964

‘CRITICAL MOMENTS.

 

   
  

 

WHEN YOU
ARE WAITING
YOUR CALL

FOR AVIOLIN
SOLO AT THE
COLLEGE

MUSICALE
—YOUVE BROKEN YOUR “E” STRING
AND YOUR BOW WON’‘T STAY
TAUT— DONT WORRY —

 

 

 
   
  

 

be

j

oe b io =e Se eS
- ie io 4 aL

3)

a fly
.

oa Te

hb
ae ee

?

| a Samy E,

7 Sa
ihe
face
iu

ay
a 7

rs

”

*

|
|
|

_

   
   
      
   
   
    
     
  
    
   
   
   
     
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  

Ce nr WN

 
 
  

    
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
   

Pn a on

SPORT RESULTS

HOCKEY

City League—Dal 1—Dart. 3.

   

_ BASKETBALL

Senior—Dal 20—Y.M.C. A. 19
Intermediate—
Dal 18—St. Andrews 28.

 
 

 

King’s Defeated
By Large Score

Dalhousie 6—Kings 1

Dalhousie hockeyists came through
with another Inter-collegiate win on
Saturday afternoon when they defeated Kings University by a 6-1
score. This victory leaves them tied
for first place with St. Mary's.

Bill Napier scored the opening goal
of the match on a pass from Graham,
and from then to the end of the period
the Gold and Black pressed hard
‘but weren’t able to beat Bigelow in
in the Kings’ nets. The Tigers notched
another counter in the middle of the
second session when Cohn finally
pushed the disc in after a mix-up
in front of the goal. A few minutes
later Cohn repeated on a nice relay
from Napier.

The third period opened with Dal
pressing hard and Beer succeeded in
bulging the twine with an easy shot
from outside the blue line. The
Dalhousians continued to attack and
their efforts were rewarded when
Beer passed to Napier who made no
mistake. Kings finally came through

with their lone counter, chalked up

by DeWolf on assists by Martell and
Lyons. The final Tiger mark came
through Graham grabbing the puck
after a face-off and bursting through
to tally. Kings continued to press
hard for the remaining few minutes
Skee: could not ‘beat Koretsky in the
2 In

on " Dalhousie line-up—Goal,
- sky; Defence, Corston, Veniot, Beer;
Sherwards, Napier, Cohn, Graham,

  

eS of Mont, Mullane, Bryant.

 

Dentistry Wins

# va? , . . .
- Dentistry scored an upset in inter
- faculty basketball competition at Dal-housie at noon yesterday as they
downed the highly touted Engineering
‘quintet by the narrow margin of 21-19.

Tillianfield, Zuckermann, Ingrassia
and Archibald were the pick of the
Dental team while Hodgson, Lipton
and Dean bore the brunt of the attack

_ for the losers.

Koret- | 
Cubs Lose Match

Dal 18—St. Andrew’s 28

Running riot in a second period
scoring splurge, St. Andrew’s downed
the Tiger Cubs 28-18 in a scheduled
Intermediate League match on Saturday night. Dalhousie had a slight
edge in the opening half when they
kept the Andreans in close check and
left the floor boasting a one point lead,
11-10. After the intermission the Collegians endeavoured to nurse their
slim margin, but soon broke down
before the concentrated attack of their
opponents. St. Andrews shot in basket after basket unhindered by the
Cub quintet and emerged from the
game victors by 10 points. Dal
played heads-up basketball for the
first half of the game, but their defensive play broke down completely
for the remainder of the match, thus
losing a much-needed victory. Ed
Stewart was high-scorer for Dal with
six points, while Anderson and Blackadar led St. Andrews with seven
points each.

Dal line-up—Green 3; Agryn 3;
Kagel; E. Stewart 6; Vair; Lb. Stewart
4; Murphy 2; Stech; Martin.

SS ee

Lawyers Beaten

Dalhousie’s Fighting Lawyers suffered their second consecutive defeat
in Interfaculty hockey competition
last evening when their more youthful
opponents from the Arts and Science
Faculty administered a 3-1 defeat
upon them.

With Leo Landreville, diminutive
little Frenchman in the nets and Hal
Connor and Pat Gunter, heavy hitting
6 foot defencemen, on the defending
line, the Lawyers were considered
the most feared team in the league,
but due to a weakness in the offensive
department of the game they have
been twice defeated.

Marshall, Nichols and Phillips scored
for the Artsmen while Regan tallied
the lone Law counter,

 

IS DECIDEDLY BETTER

Farmers’

CHOCOLATE MILK

It Is Made With Real, Full Cream Milk

“*Taste The Difference’’

Farmers’ Limited

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

  

- eee 2 = ee sere ES = = :
Siena aeiooeetho a errs

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

     
   
   
     
  

SPORT SAGAS

Dalhousie will entertain Mount Allison on Saturday
evening at the Dalhousie Gymnasium in the first of the
home and home exhibition games...... But here’s some
real news...... AFTER THE GAME THE D., A, A. C.
MANAGEMENT ARE THROWING A DANCE......

 
   
  
  

 

At the present time Dalhousie stands tied for first

place in Intercollegiate Hockey competit'cn. ANY

STUDENT DESIROUS OF SEEING RIAL GOOD

HOCKEY should make it a point to attend the games

at the Arena on Saturday afternoons...... There is

more pep...... fire......enthusiasm and general gusto in Intercollegiate
hockey than any other branch of the sport...... I beg your pardon, Seniors.
Dalhousie is really going to town...... The Seniors are at present
almost certain of a berth in the playdowns......and if the game against

Dartmouth is any indication rival squads will have penty of trouble......
Tuesday nights game as we saw.

Koretsky was good...... Yes, very good......“Snake Hips’ Napier
is developing into a star...... Napier was all over the ice....scored
Dalhousie’s lone goal and missed at least seven others...... “The Little
Master,”’ with the much admired coat of tan was a veritable whirlwind,
but he missed so many chances it broke the hearts of the few Dalhousians
in the stands......

 

A tall centre calls play No. 99. The whistle blows and simultaneously

a forward moves in to pick up the tip off...... whisks it over to a teammate
Piwhe as pass to the centre now up under the basket and Dalhousie scores,
Once upon a time, not so very long ago that was how basketball was
played at Dalhousie...... Those were the days when due to the efforts
of lanky Bill Gladstone, willowy Mit Musgrave and the dynamic Crease
Brothers. ... Dalhousie occupied the uppermost pinnacle in Maritime hoop
tiseless: 054. This high position was not achieved by accident....How
many of us watched the boys drill the plays by the hour....Plays which
carried Dalhousie to the heights. ...But to-day the situation is different... .
they don’t call plays any more....The scores made by Dalhousie usually
originate in snap shots at the foul line....Now your sports writer knows
less about basketball than he does about hockey... .but this much is certain
..Dalhousie has not a winning team....and Dalhousians require a win
ning team. ... UNDOUBTEDLY SOME ONE HAS SLIPPED......

Dalhousie’s fighting lawyers under the watchful eye of COACH TRIPLE
THREAT DeWolfe aren’t doing so bad in Interfaculty basketball...
Through the efforts of such well known seniors as Toar Baird and Bill Cook
they find themselves in first position in Interfaculty basketball but Coach
DeWolfe’s charges certainly have him worried in hockey....“SIEVE”
Landreville is certainly not up to the rating given him in the Upper Canadian
.the diminutive PSC ESAT says “Its not that I’m not good
no can score.” And so Prexy DeWolfe has his

newspapers. .
but those fopwaeds they
hands full,

 

Last week we picked Dalhousie to defeat the Grads..,.They missed
by a lone point....Any ‘‘good”’ sports writer makes mistakes. This week
in picking the Crease captained stars to defeat the ‘“‘Y’’ we assure you we
have made no error......

CAPITOL

Canada’s Most Beautiful Theatre

TODAY SAT. MON.

IN TECHNICOLOR

GOD’S COUNTRY

sx» WOMAN
a Beverley

ROBERTS

George
BRENT

Bu

 

TUE. WED. THURS.
KAY FRANCIS

STOLEN HOLIDAY

Permanent Waves

MERLE STEAM $7.00
BONAT $5.00
CROQUIGNOLE $3.00
and all other beauty cultures

WHEN VISITING

   
   

 

THE NEW THEATRE

  

   
  

Visit Us
FOR LUNCHES

QUICK SERVICE

as we have five operators and
barbers

Clark’s Barber Shop
and Beauty Parlor

177 QUINPOOL ROAD
B-9645

   
 

The OXFORD
TEA ROOM

Cor. Quinpool Rd. & Oxford St.

  

 
 
  

tt —_— ae eee

  

 

 

opportunity of enjoying dancing at 3
thé conclusion of the contest: Napier opened the scoring in the
first period, as he broke up a Dartmouth attack at his own blue-line,
M d T 2 E h soloed up the ice in a magnificent
eas rim ros dribble and burned the twines with
a fast one. That was the only Dal
The Freshman were taken for a|score, Dartmouth scoring a marker
| bad trimming when the superior play-|in each of the three stanzas. Bering of Medicine upset them. Before} mudian Buckley, the Little Master,
half-time Medicine were held, until| was cut on the head in the third

S-m-o-o-t-h, mild—
and throat-easy

ckingham

CIGARETTES

 

 

QUINPOOL ROAD INVITES YOU

 

   

    
   

   
 
 
     
   

 

February 12th, 1987 4

FRONT —

SPORT SCHEDULE

HOCKEY
Dal vs. Wanderers—
2.00 p. m. Sat. at Arena.
Dal vs Sunocos—
8.00 p. m. Mon. at Arena.
BASKETBALL
Senior—Dal vs Mount A.
Sat. at Dal
Dal vs Wanderers
Thur. at Dal
Interm.—Dal vs St. George’s
ie i Sat. at Y
Girls—Dal vs Mount A
Today, at 12.00

 

 

Entertain Mt. A.| Tiger Pucksters
Dalhousie senior basketballers will Drop Close Game

on Saturday evening entertain Mount

Balked by the brilliant efforts” of
Jolly Gray, Dartmouth twine-protector,
the Tiger pucksters dropped a hard
Allison University hoopsters in the
first of the rival college home and
home exhibitions,

The Dalhousie-Acadia games for fought 3-1 decision on Tuesday night.
some unknown reason always give Although the Dal icemen outplayed
evidence of more enthusiasm than| the Itish in the first and third frames

any other City league contest and|it was the old story of not being able
likewise when the rival Mount A|to turn golden scoring opportunities
and Dalhousie hoopsters clash student |!"t© goals, over-eagerness and poor

shooting being the contributing factors.
Dal’s defence showed marked improvement over its performance of last week,
but the Bengal forwards were repeatedly thrown for a loss by
huskies.

and local interest is at a high pitch,

The student officials looking to the
interests of basketball at Dalhousie
have planned a fine evening’s game.

Patrons at the game will have the the opposing

 

period and withdrew for a short time.
Otherwise the game was

Miller, Tafeen and Harris started to

click. Outstanding players for Medi- marked by

cine were Miller and Horowitz, while|}no outstanding incidents. All the
Mont and Burchell played a good| Dal team played fine hockey, with
game for the freshman. The final| MacGregor, DeWolfe, and Napier as

stand-outs.

core was 29-14.

 

For Comfort , ~

 

Convenience

 

Reasonable Rates

 

Have Your Friends Stop At

THE CARLETON

HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA »

  

PARR Sup oy
7.

See serene

 

    

SHOES! SHOES! SHOES!
EVERYBODY WANTS NEW SHOES

We are now showing our new Spring Shoes for both
men and women

Priced from 2.95 to 7.50
—SPECIAL—

All remaining stock of Women’s Fur Trimmed Overshoes, Black and Brown, To Clear

2.29

FIT-RITE SHOE STORE

170 QUINPOOL ROAD
A. T. Johnson, Prop.

         
 
   
   
  
  

   
 
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
   

B-8571

  

 
