  
   

; Central Canadians.
we a very small audience the
isie Debating Team triumphed
‘a Team representing Central
la, 1 st Friday evening. The
sie team conducted their side
ebate with the utmost skill and
mner worthy of the traditions
ting at Sodales, The Home
! : wns composed of Julius Rosenae. Leader) and Robert Kanigsberg
; & pper Canadian Team although
= on . wrong side of the decision,
nevertheless showed a spirit and a
_ .technique which at once captured the
audience. W. J. Garnett from the

Ps
wee :
cr he fo

  

  

  
  
 

Ey
je

c

  

“esis

b

   

©
io Agricultural College at Guelph
x ager Benud Matte of Ottawa
University were the visiting debaters
- Throughout the contest the friendliness
—and- spirit which these debates are
7 intended to sponsor was decidedly
tee era D. Macgillivray a prominent
member of the Board of Governors
acted as Chairman and in his opening
‘words extended a welcome on behalf
of the University to the Upper Canads. Mr.\Donald Grant as Repreitive of the National Federation of
ian University Students for

 
  
 

    
 
 

  
  

  
     
         
    
         
 
      
 
    

Deserve Praise

For Work

For almost a year before the construction of the Gymnasium began,
Professer Theakston with the help of
Mr. Stirling planned and worked on

  

 

 

   

           
 

  
  
    

- Palhousie spoke a few words of wel-|jdeas for the new building. Mr. Stircome and briefly outlined the aims, | ling gave helpful advice regarding the

| object and the work of the Federation.

a eae - Mr. Rosenblum opened the debate
ss for “Dalhousie. The Resolution was,

athletic equipment and facilities and
other suggestions in connection with
the utility of space. Professor Theaka brief with the

       

 

 
   
  

   

We cin deta 3 stars} f com-|Ston then drew up ¢
ee ee ea
fe gg muon h e = gym and turned the matter over to

= ’* Mr. Rosenblum maintained that Cooperation is the direct
antithesis of competition, and that

far-fetched competition, in
  

Mr. Cobb. Mr. Cobb embodied the
ideas in the design and plan of the
building.

Since the turning of the first sod,
Professor Theakston has done everything in his power to make things run
smoothly and to have the work finished
at the earliest possible moment. | Professor Theakston’s position in regard
‘to the construction has been that of
Overseeing-Engineer representing the
University. He Boe bees ee poser

‘din. and. the| ing link between the University officials
ea xs andthe Contractors. = =,
not through the} of the great difficulties in the

ding is to
‘hat | a ee ulty ids aw y :
vhen- seedy Ce the building is not only a gym¢ is | wless and an tes 9

nasium but also an auditorium, and a
Sa" oe alee re . general utility building. The many
oy a rs r. Rosenblus was followed by Mr.| organizations that need space, such as
| Garnett who supported the negative | the Glee Club and the C. O. T. C. have
el oof the resolution. Mr. Garnett held
; © that man, through competition with

     
     
      
 

    

 

ng personal greed and cut-throat
hods there was a tendency to lower
moral standing of the community.
ent on to say that Competition
natural to, man but that man
Id always try to combine his
peg for ps Sapo

e spoke of the havoc played
te Gon She field of athletics,

    
   
    
 
     
     
   
       
   
   
     
  

    

   
     
 

  

 
  
 
    
   
  
  
   
 

 
     

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   

    
  

 

       
 

as far as possible been accommodated

With an eye to the future the roof
his environment and with the elements] trusses and wall brackets have been
F had learned to progress. He main
c . de om designed to eventually hold a track
ed that the direct antithesis of

' offand gallery. This in_ itself was a
competition is Socialism. (At which| difficulty because the building had to be
there was a stamping of feet in the} used as an auditorium and the stage
audience). He believed that leaders| prevented the construction of a gallery
jn any particular work were only found | all the way around.

- through competition, the old maxim,| This and numerous other points
the survival of the fittes'. While demon- | had to be taken into consideration and
trating the use of competition in all] it has been through the untiring efforts
_ branches of life, financial, educational,|and the keenness of Prof. Theakston,
athletic and political he stated that|and on the architectural side, through
the best way to find the best party|the splendid work of Mr. Cobb, that
was by competition. Dalhousie now. boasts of one of the
ae: finest University Gymnasiums in Canada.

      
       
     
      
   

  
 

 
 

      
       
    

  

da,

va

   
  
           
         
      
   
    

(Continued on page 4)

Is Masic Dal’s Cinderalla?
Seats Music Lover Criticizes Situation at Dalhousie

performance, A wealthy New England
er, Mrs. Berkeley, places before the
students of Harvard, annually, a number of free concerts by European artists.
These concerts are enormously popular.

 

 

 

Favorable comment is being made
on the new gyminasium-auditurium.
' The building has seating accommoda
tion for 1700 people. To what use
Fs will it be put, above class-lectures and

”
f

games? e Halifax Philharmonic has] Another wealthy benefactor of Eastern
gr already been negotiating, or the author-| American colleges bears the cost of a

series of concerts, personally accompanying the orchestra on its tour.
This series is also awaited with keen
interest. One of the most popular and
one of the most enjoyed classes in a

oh s have been negotiating with the
ae) r _ Phi armonic for several concerts, But,
ss will things go only to this point?
- —~—- Due to lack of proper facilities,
Dalhousie has for many years been
Pe without the benefits of music, lacka ing, while other Maritime universities
e been progressing towards a high
idard in the presentation of orchesand chamber music, and internally known lecturers to their
ts, Dalthousians have been go_ unexperienced in the graces
gives. They go back to their
e town with a warped sense of
- ¢ultural appreciation, to report to
admiring home-folk the glories of
<0 Aa 
  

   

 
    
     
    
          
      
      
       
    
     
     
    
  

music peor .
lander realizes the value of these things.
But where does the Dalhousian stand.
What will Dalhousie do to put her
students on an equal footing with their
comtemporaries? |

Acadia with a five dollar student
concert fee presented in One year
twenty-five excellent programs. The
cost of these concerts to the students
was eighteen cents. An examination
showed that the same internationally
known artists, who had appeared at
Wolfville that season, also appeared
in Boston before well-filled two and
three dollar houses.

By arrar nt with Acadia and
Mt. Allison, another Maritime university that has progressed along these
lines, Dalhousie might easily share in a
worth-while series of orchestra, operatic
and lecture engagements. Halifax is
a sea-port town, in winter comparative
 
 

  

    
   
    

  
  
     
 

      
 
 
  

ifax picture houses. (For all that
many ofthem know, American movies
are the best the world has to offer).
Or, true to custom, they leave for
the States to compete with other college
trained men in the business world.
Business success is too closely allied
‘ith social success for the aesthetics
» spurned. The American college
privileged. At Harvard
, the Boston Symphony
each year gives nine con
    
         
     
     
       
       
      

        
       
  

     
  
  

    

r students and townspeople. ly close to England and English talent.
, but a b. oc of students seats "In former years any suggestion Meas

(Continued on page 4.

large New England college is a course in |
The New Eng-]
    
    
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
    
 
 
   

 
   

New Gymnasium

Officially Opened

 

President Stanley accepts Key on behalf of University

 

“T accept this key, not as one to
close and restrict; but as one to open
and unbind.”’ With these words, Pres
 

'

Theakston of the Engineering Department, Great credit must go to Professor Theakston for the final success of

ident Stanley received the new gym-;the plant.

nasium and service building, Saturday
afternoon, on behalf of the University
and the students. The building was
officially opened. for inspection by Mr.
G. Fred Pearson, Chairman cf the
Board of Governors.

The opening reception was given to
members of the teaching and administrative staffs, representatives of the
student body, and of the Alumni and
Alumnae Societies, at 4.30 o'clock
Saturday afternoon, by the Board of
Governors. Representatives from the
various contracting and furnishing
firms were also present. :

While the new gymnasium is externally a very fine addition to Studley
Campus, the interior is even more

make, striking. A broad expanse, 100 by ‘7¢
/ of all space. The} feet, of hardwood flour, walls finished
has been even greater in this) in rough grey plaster, shining aluminum

painted girders overhead, and a large
stage at the far end with scarlet hangings make this a splendidly planned
and finished building. Large windows,

the whole length of the floor, give a

lightness and a feeling of cleanness to

the new gym that was lacking in the
old. Woodwork, electric fixtures, locker and shower room equipment are of
the best and most enduring quality.
Few finer college gymnasiums could
be found across the country.

Mr, Pearson, after a delightful tea

served by members of the Alumnae
Association, outlined in an informal

way the features of the new building.
The main auditorium-gymnasium floor
will accomodate 1700 persons. It is
convertible into two basketball floors,
by means of a drop curtain, two volley
ball floors and. six badminton courts.
This floor will serve, in the present
lack of more suitable accomodations,
six useful purposes: examination hall,
convocation hall, gymnasium, lecture
room, theatre and dancing floor. Im
spite of certain criticisms, the authorities have planned for, and have good
faith in the building’s adaptability to
these purposes. The heating of the
large auditorium is by a_ draught
process: steam-heated air is blown to
keep the room at uniform temperature.
Steel-braced basketball goals fold up
at both ends ofthe floor. Around the
walls are a number of large heraldric
shields, copies of authentic 14th and
15th century arms drawn by Professor

seneath the gymnasium, the basement is taken up with men’s locker
rooms, equipped at the present time
with 150 lockers with room for another
150. Under the entranceway, back
of the basement, is the smaller gymnasium for physical training, fencing,
boxing. Locker rooms and showers
for women students are at the opposite
end of the basement, beneath the stage.
A well-appointed Faculty Common
Room is upstairs, to the right of the
stage, while the corresponding space,
to the left of the stage is a squash
racket room. Beneath the Faculty
Room are kitchen facilities, Beneath
the squash-racket court are offices for
the Physical Director and for the
Alumni Association. Adjoining these
rooms, quarters are provided for the
Dalhousie Company C. O. T. C.. The
platform is very commodious and
completely equipped for the proper
performance of Glee Club shows. A
modern lighting system, suitable drops
and curtains, with good facilities for
handling these, should encourage interest in dramatics among the students,

The construction work, begun in the
autumn and carried through in winter
weather, was completed in the stipulated time, five months, by the McDonald Construction Company. Original
building estimates, too, were not
exceeded—remarkable features about
this building. Mr. A. R. Cobb, who
has had supervision of the architectural
scheme of Studley Campus, is the
designer. Stage furnishings were supplied by the T. Eaton Company,
Halifax. ae ae

Mr. Pearson :spoke of the gratitude
by the Board of Governors to the
various contractors and furnishers, and
most especially to the Bank of Nova
Scotia, whose finadcial co-operation
made the undertaking of the project
feasible.

Mr. McDonald, President of the
McDonald Construction Company, call
ed upon to speak, expressed his
satisfaction in the work done on the
building, especially emphasising the
unselfish devotion Mr. Theakston had
given to the work. After a short
speech by Mr. A. R. Cobb, the Chairman addressed President Stanley, formally presenting to him the key to the
new building. !

 

New Gym.

Following the official opening last
Saturday, the new Service Building
was inspected Monday by the student
body. The first student function took
place last night with the Glee Club
Show. Today, several periods of lectures will be given in the main auditorium; these large lecture classes will
-be held in the gym on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at certain periods
till the end of the year. On Friday,
March 11th, the Senior-Junior Dance
will be held. A student body dance,
that was planned for the opening has
had to be postponed, because of the
condition of the new floor. The
Council of Students is making arrangements for this dance to be held shortly
after the Senior-Junior affair.

——_-- Se. --———

Miss Keltie Holman, Dal '28, was
a recent visitor at Shirreff Hall. She
i the guest of Miss Connie McFarane.

 

Programme For |Prof. Taken For

Earl

Friday morning, at the pyschological
moment, when ail the Lawyers were
momentarily expecting the arrival of
their Excellencies, the Earl and Countess of Bessborough, the north door of
the Forrest Building opened and in
walked Dr. Herbie Stewart. Herbie
Was given quite an ovation and though
a trifle disconcerted by the unexpected
applause, carried through with an
appropriate flourish and a nice air of
noblesse oblige. It is reported that a
number of first year men, upon Herbie’s
departure, resumed their work,. quite
Satisfied with the Eari but. rather
surprised that he hadn’t brought the
Countess.

Miss Dorothy Rosier, Dal '31, was
down from Windsor to attend the
Phi Rho Sigma Fraternity Party on
Friday night.

a

%

Delta Gamma

Holds Dance

The Delta Gamma Society appropriately celebrated the 29th of February by holding their annual ball in
the Nova Scotian. The occasion called
forth the largest crowd ever seen at a
college dance and every group in the
university was well represented. Many
of the alumni returned for the purpose,
so they said, of watching the girls
show their taste, which they did.

Though the men’s dressing room
proved as popular as ever the usual
college spirit was not in evidence,
notwithstanding this every one seemed
to have a good time.

As a dance, it had=many enjoyable
features, Supper was served in 3
sections, preventing all contusion; the
Hagarty orchestra, which provided
excellent music played several extra
extras during the supper intermission;
the presence of Joe Connolly and
Vance Maxwell lent grace and charm
to the company; programs from the
fluent pen of Tommy Goudge, picturing the Delta Gamma. twins, made
adniirable souvenirs.

The President and Mis. Stanley and
Miss MacKeen were the chaperones
and many other members of the faculty
were present as guests. At nine
o’clock the guests were received by Miss
MacKeen and Margaret Dorman, president of Delta Gamma; five hours
later they said ‘‘goodnight’” to the
same people and after the dangerous
journey home they returned feeling
that they had spent a very successtu
Leap Year night.

——_+-+-e—__

The old word game is back at Studley and what forfeits the Committee
forced from the losers! Mr. Zatsman
did some queer acrobatics; Bord Stoddard had to remove one shoe, spat and
sock; Doug Seely then had to open
the window and lie down in the snow;
Ort Hewat gave Horace Mitchell a
thrilling piggy-back ride and last but
not least, one member went to his
next class with his coat and vest on
backwards. Oh yes, before we forget
—Lester had a lesson in sweeping from
little Mary Clennett. What a hectic
row!

"EL & S: Scheie Outlined’

Writer Suggests Substitutes for Dances

These questions are often asked,
‘Is there too much dancing among the
college students, too many parties?’
»‘Are the young people really interested
in anything outside of a good time and
incidentally getting through their examinations at the end of the year-’’
Since such inquiries are more or less
frequent, there must be some cause for
them. True, there are many social
affairs at Dalhousie, elaborate dances
and informal parties. Then there are
other, activities which take time away
from study for classes, but which provide a more educative element than
the dances and parties. Do not many
students give thought and energy to
debating, Round Table Club programs
the Midlothian Society, various clubs
proper to individual faculties or depattments, study groups of one kind
and another?

Perhaps most first-year students have
not had enough opportunity to find out
their special interests and. aptitudes,
and to decide just what subjects will
reward their earnest attention. It is
very pleasant and easy to take the
good times which come along and not
to be any more serious than necessarye
So it is that a preat many people are
accused perhaps of shallowness of
character, when under the required
stimulus, they would develop a genuine
interest in matters of real importance,
not only to their college, but to their

a
: Pers

    
 
   
 
 
  
 
   

 

|

 
  

or. ¢ cae} aie!

8

 

No. 16

Meds Banquet At

Nova Scotian

Dr. H. K. MacDonald
Speaker of Evening.

a ee eee

The Dalhousie Medical Students
Society held their annual Banquet in
the Nova Scotian Hotel on Thursday
evening, February 25th. Towards
eight o’clock some sixty students and
a large number of the medical faculty
and medical practitioners from the
city filed into the large Banquet Hall
and while appropriate music supplied
a pleasant background, they did ample
justice to the substantial menu which a
discriminating committee had chosen
for the occasion. When the pleasant
humor which comes only when hungry
men are well satisfied had infected the
entire gathering a full toast list was
carried off under the capable direction
of Donald Thompson, president of the
Society, who opened the program by
proposing a toast to ‘“The King.”
This was responded to by singing the
National Anthem. Mr. John Andrew
proposed a toast to ‘“The School,”
which was responded to by Dr. Dreyer |
who delighted all with his seriousness,
wit and humor. |

Dr. H. K. McDonald as the chief
speaker of the evening, proposed a
toast to ‘“‘The Graduating Class.”
His address was much appreciated for
the helpful advice and practical encouragement which he gave to the
graduates—words which impressed the
student that the speaker was building
on a full experience, a broad outlook
and a keen sense of values. The
ideal which the proposer of the toast
held out to the young medical doctor
can -not fail to bring him over the
hurdles in the yeats of practise which
lie ahead. Mr. Frank Hebb in his
reply to the toast and Dr. McDonald’s
address spoke very fittingly in his usual
fluent style. The Dalhousie medical
school and the doctors with whom
they had been privileged to come in
contact had supplied them with a
knowledge anda background of confiddence which would, he hoped, bring
thei to the success which has graced
former Dalhousie graduates.

Mr. Walter C. MacKenzie proposed
the toast to ‘‘The Ladies.” This
eulogy was replied to by Dr. R. P. .
Smith in his own inimical style. |

The toast to ‘‘The Profession’’ by
Mr. Fred H. Wigmore was responded
to by Dr. Kirk Maclellan who spoke
of the changes in attitude of medical
men in recent years.

Prof, R. J. Bean was also called upon
to speak and altho taken by surprise
acquitted himself in no mean style.
Sing-song, led by Yale Brodie and
John Budd followed and finally the
singing of ‘‘O Canada” brought a most
enjoyable evening to a successful close.

Great credit is due to Mr, J. S.
Robertson and his committee who
worked hard and spent much time to
make the event a success and they
should feel that their efforts were
appreciated and fruitful in that this
year’s Banquet was one which future
committees would do well to emulate,

ee

 

own lives and the lives of others in the
whole world.

It is with the belief that the vast
majority of Dalhousians, if not all, will
recognize the significance of the worldwide cooperation of university-trained
people, that the writer undertakes to
introduce them to the International
Student Service.

International Student Service, or
I. S. S. as it is popularly called, had its
beginnings back in 1920 as a relief
committee for students unable to carry
on their university courses without
help. In the development of the
work of that committee, lie the reasons
for the present very wide-spread activities of the movement. These activities are in fact so wide-spread, that
perhaps one or two only have significance in one place; three or four in
other localities. Here at Dalhousie,
I. S. S. offers suggestions for activities
generally considered to be of a practical
nature, as well as opportunities for the
development of understanding and
goodwill,—local, national and _ international. After all, such opportunities really arise in the course of practical service, a fact which explains the
present program of I. S. S.

The movement began as a relief
committee in Central Europe after the
War, calling for help on those countries which were comparatively well
(Continued on page 4)
eee |=

     
  
    

— a

COMMENT >

 

    

 

  

fe
=

  

    
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
    
   
 
  
 
 
   
 

b
ahead, P, Q.) to remove from the
jurisdiction of the civil service com
THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995

|

*
\

ee NS ‘A,
cDONALD, B. A.

SO MSS OTA SS eee ee _ Associates: the Canadian Civil Service one of the
ae er ee oR CHANDLER biggest items of discussion for the
een erotic >So EELATAN SADLER, B. A. week, Mr. aprons 2 bill. nee :

Ve sees Big DANIEL SPRY < retrogressive step in that it heralde

Ft ele eh Aes ate ce e a return to increased patronage. To
aca 2 ELIZABETH MARCH hoteed the victor belongs the spoils is prac
x BN. PRS ogee) Ke 3 Pe T. W. CRAWFORD 3 tised far too widely now throughout
i a fi Sports Editor; the country. It would seem that fo
thet ces ~ R. D. ae many the only reason to give allegiance

t ;

 

to one party or the other is the hope of
-| getting some definite favour in return.

News Editors;
MARGARET DORMAN

a: g* a C i : oa Surely in any of the parties there are

Pi ee ee tant SAPS FS 95F oe SEWARD B; HIGGINS ideals and principles of sufficient worth
Bg fete BLMGABETH MURRAY gs meen sous ona
- “Basiness Mena RUTH Spare all ete estes eer tunately the bill in its original form

CHARLES CLARKE, B.A
B2436
Sports Reporter:
MURRAY LLOY

was defeated but a Government amendment passed, providing for the
appointment of a committee of seven
members to investigage appointments
and the control and direction of the

_ DONALD MAHON
es bute 1826 Ree
, ah ou oo bl a ee P sof Editor:
Bo Me cabesed ¥. HY Siw) roof k .
| Steep? . 2 ARRON, ZIVE, B: Se.

     

more than $12V0 annually will sustain

etes de. Bo aSIEL, nd
i peiay ere Sat civil service.
PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB&SON, 7-9-1] BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.
ay a : i es pe .

 

nah 1. ‘ a ten percent cut, while those receiving

er ij dates mieten” J less than $1200 will take a five et

IN Disc Rice THE NE decrease. The provision is effective
aah BE ak ics TH i 5 4 W GYMNASIUM AGAIN. for one year. The estimated saving is

o BRR ae ir im . approximately $8,000,000. The de
Miata ase. a Py A ; ‘
_ ™  SOur new Gymnasium at Studley has finally been opened in an
‘official manner. The Board of Governors, the Senate, and mem_ \ bers of the Faculty, inspected the building on Saturday afternoon:
-and..on Monday, the general student body was condescendingly
_ admitted fora few hours. It seems to be the consensus of opinion,
A “wi h which wevheartily agree, that the structure is an extraordin‘arily fine one, not only for immediate athletic purposes, but also
for the other multifold duties it will be called upon to serve. Its
-_-—-extterior-is architecturally harmonized with the surrounding edifices
--~—-« on _ the campus, while the interior contains, in addition to the
___--—s. spacious expanse of the main floor and the stage, a commodious
alumni room, a-sumptuously fitted-out retreat for the professors,
. a squash-court, a small, well-equipped gym in the basement,
Pars: ~ ample locker and storage space, and even a place for our pacifist
organization, the C. O. T..C. These have been combined into a

bate on this reduction brought forth
some interesting and novel suggestions
such as are to be expected tiom the
Opposition Party which knows it has
no responsibility for carrying them
into effect. Mr. Cameron R. Mclintosh (Lib., North Battleford, Sask.),

themselves might make a gift to the
butions. Apparently he has the idea
that the ministers are wealthy. And
Mr. King would have economy prace
tised in Lieutenant Governor’s enteér
of the saving which would be realized

of the unemployed whose distress, he

   

  
  
    

. * ~ « y > on
_--_- pleasing, homogeneous whole by the architect, Mr. A. R. Cobb, who, ae Leave were eee ;
SRM Ue sg ea ee : : itter when reac aborate
re _ together with the Contractors, deserves to be highly complimented Peat GE fusetsein tii Chenin Gat oui
oe! ee

he hope e ats work. So does President Stanley, Mr. G. F.
eon. Fi is earson, and all ‘who have in any way assisted in making possible
be _, the fine building. |
/ f.. ot wt a of by Fe, | = ~d
© :-*Tt will not be taken amiss, we hope, if in discussing the matter,
- we offer one detrimental criticism of the manner in which the
imited space in the gymnasium has been allotted. We certainly
< some sort of provision ought to have been made for the
odation of student groups. This is undoubtedly a dersight,, At the present time, the various undergraduate
¢ say in the evening, have absolutely no place to
ley, and save for the Pate, pooaperal ennui:
ro room, no spot in the whole University. Why
not | Ree bea a large, comfortable, well-furnished
m set aside especially for the students? Surely such
needed just as much as an office for the alumni files?

         
       
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
    
   
   
  

Governors, in the interests of economy.
To Mr. Manion, Minister of Railways
these suggestions are ‘‘demagogism.’
Being termed a demagogue is one of the
rewards ofspeaking from the Oopposition benches.

Mr, G, W. Gordon of Peterborought
Ontario, who is not a member of
Parliament is again giving Mr. Bennet,
trouble and distressed feelings. It was
only last summer that Mr. Gord
“hurt” the Premier by alleging tha
the then proposed reduction on highe
incomes would save the latter $25,0¢
annually. Now, Mr. Gordon is reported to have stated in a _ public
speech that the expenses of Mrs

.

      
   

     

   

=

_ Itis very regrettable that this consideration did not commend itself
ee ar ph See eer gk . .
to the authorities when they apportioned space in the new structure.. From the point of view of many undergraduates, it is the
ly flaw in an otherwise flawless construction.

were paid out of the Dominion Treasury and that from the same source the
Premier has obtained a new railway
car for his own use ata cost of $125,000
The Prime Minister and his friends

oe 4 | have insisted that a ete
Raa eT, crim \ ? Committee investigate these latest
i DO THE WOMEN WANT TO BE EDUCATED? charges. This committee is now sit

ting. It surely is a thankless job of

being Canada’s Premier, for, in addition to all these annoyances, Mr.
Bennett has received anonymous letters threatening him with assasination
if he fails within a stated time to
release the Communists recently sentenced to serve terms in Kingston
penitentiary.

___‘Dhe renowned Russian novelist Gorky, relates in one of his

_ books, that as he and Tchekov were walking in the Crimea, they
came upon Tolstoy, seated on the beach, his massive head bent in
_ meditation, his white beard sweeping the sand. They squatted
_ down beside him, and began to talk of women. For a long time

_. Tolstoy listened in silence, Then suddenly he said: “And I will
___ tell the truth about women only when I have one foot in the grave.
__ I shall tell it, jump into my coffin, pull the lid over me, and say,

 

At the last session it was stated

that one of the beneficial results of the

Mo Fis 7 ‘Do what you like with me now. increased tariff on magazines would
eet ee Ce ui. A be the protection of the people of Can‘ me This would doubtless be the most salutary gesture for any aa haan Se pe coe eer turers
he a foolhardy male who attempted a veracious revelation of the enig-| ~~: 4

must be guarded. It would be inter
esting to know how many of the 47,
fiction publications formerly printed
in U. S. A. and which are now being
printed in Canada for their Canadian

‘matic feminine nature. But less stringent measures could pro____ bablly be adopted if one limited oneself to a less formidable task.
At all events, we proceed.

e; ea Sah. 3 2°) ne Pt, % : : distribution, would be included in
_ In these times when the ubiquitous influence of co-education the class of undesirables.
___ has spread into every civilized country, thousands of young women! Again, Mr. King protests that

_ _.__ €an be seen wending their way through university halls and class- rooms. What is their purpose in being there? Are they really
seeking education? By this of course, we do not mean the ability
to read and write, or to accumulate a certain amount of detail
____ information. We imtend rather, a deep love of knowledge; an
EY. impelling desire to appreciate the best that has been thought and
____ said in the world; the wish in short to become mature and cultured.

onc

public funds should not be used to
sponsor ‘‘Made in Canada”’ campaigns
since such campaigns bring distress
to many Canadians.

The Government is
interest and support measures
stabilize the currency of all British
countries, at the Economic Conference
in Ottawa in July. It remains to be

planning to

   

) many women want this sort of development? Not many.

   

‘h average co-ed comes to college because it happens to be

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

of RR i aie Oe Sa . Ds ak enainclee eines s
wie ano Ona ia Mexorbies?? € announcement by the Govern; ‘The Oldest: College Paper in ies at 2 : ment of its intention to go through
ee tay La i: ee — | with thereduction on salaries of civil
= ga F te) Cee ep servants and the introduction of.a bill
? Managing Editors: Mr. Omesime Gagon (Cons., Do
 

thought that the Cabinet Ministers} ®°

and out of consideration for the feelings | @

to have the Government of Canada| body. . ae :
request the resignation of Lieutenant has in the past contributed to keep

 
    
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
 
 

Herridge’s honeymoon trip to Europe}

baby

due.
to| proposed marriage to Susan before
now takes a fatherly interest and gets

: 2 ; the business for a few
seen if this proposal will be the ‘‘hum ! Susan stays at home.

bug” one, of this coming Conference ) that sne really loves Dick and repulses

 

 

THE
PASSING BLOW

 

The N. F. C. U. S. Debate.
Bennett Shield Debate.

mission alloutside appointments, made ee ee Se es

The N. F. C. U. S. Debate.

Less than seventy people attended
the Dalhousie N. F. C. U. S. debate
held last Friday night in the auditorium
of the School for the Blind. The
smallness of the audience is to be

;| regretted, both from the standpoint

of the participants who had put much
time and study into their examination
of the subject, and from the standpoint
of the purpose behind the meeting of
describing a university as a changinghouse of ideas, and each university
ought to be, not merely the changinghouse of the ideas of its own students,
but the changing-house of student
opinion representative of as many
universities as possible. The furtherance of such an exchange of ideas was
the. motive of the National Federation
of University Students in arranging

The reduction in salaries of civil] the tour of the visiting team; unforservants means that those receiving tunately the cooperation of Dalhousians

was lacking, so that the debate, resulting though it did in a-victory for the
home team was a colossal failure.

Not until students realize that the
real purpose of such a debate is to
bring into contact the universities of
Canada; not until they realize the
importance of the project and lend
it their cooperation, can the ideals of
the Federation be attained.

Bennett Shield Debate.
While on the subject of debates, we
tice that in respect to the next

forensic encounter—the first debate

treasury of $8,000,000 or $10,000,000 of the Bennett Shield Series—Sodales
and thus set the pace for other contri-|* ™

aking two departures from their
usval procedure, First the debate will
be held at Studley, in Room 3 of the
Arts Building; second, it will be held
at three o’clock in the afternoon.— The

tainments. He urges this for the sake second innovation, that concerning

time, ought to meet with the favour of
ll who, while being interested in~-dehating, are still loath to sacrifice an
tire evening to hear an inter-class
competition. The first innovation,
that concerning place, will doubtless

Another Liberal member would like| find favour with the undergraduate

Perhaps one of the factors that

down the attendance of Sodales, is the
feeling on the part of the Arts or Science
student that in the Forrest Building
he is on foreign ground and that, in
Sodales he is in an alien organization
presided over entirely by Forrest
Building denizens. It is to be hoped
that a goodly number will take advantage of this overture of the Sodales
executive, and that the meeting tomorrow afternoon will be well attended.

«

 

f

~ Book Review

Mr. and Mrs. Pennington

Mr. and Mrs. Pennington by Francis Brett Young. Harpers.

The January selection of the Bookof-the-Month Club is a novel of contemporary English life in an industrial
town. Its author, Francis Bret tYoung
is author, musician, and doctor, a
verteran of the War now peacefully
domiciled in Capri. He has written
about twenty books, including two
successful romances of English town
and country life.

The story of Mr, and Mrs. Pennington is briefly this. Susan an orphan
is brought up by her aunt and uncle
who are vainly trying to keep his
business going in the face of the ruthless
modern methods of his opulent rival
Bulgin. Susan is a good-looking, half
educated product of the industrial
town, At a summer resort she meets
and. presumably falls in love with
Dick Pennington a clerk of ordinary
abilities, decent and ambitious. They
marry and live happily in a bungalow
which they cannot afford. Susan in
dismay discovers she is going to have
a baby and about the same time Dick
loses his job as a result of the depression. On a visit to Dick's aunt in the
country Susan has an accident and the
is prematurely stillborn. She
comes home tired and without interest
in Dick or the house. The furniture
payments, and the rent are long overOld Bulgin the Villian who had

Dick a job in Wales in a plant to learn
weeks while
She discovers

Bulgin, but alas she falls a victim to

FROM OUR —
CONTEMPORARIES

Radio Debate.
Breadline Students.
The Fight for U. B. C.
The Soap Box.

Radio Debate.

An international radio debate between McGill and the University of
Pennsylvania is scheduled for Saturday afternoon, April 2nd. This will
be the first debate to be broadcasted
over the country by two universities
representing Canada and the United
States, The only parallel to it wes the
recent debate between Oxford and
Harvard but this was -over private
stations and the public was not given
the opportunity to listen. The subject of the debate is ‘‘Resolved, That
the foreign policy of the United States
is retarding world Disarmament.’ This
topic should be especially interesting
because of the probable announcement
of the first-results of the Disarmament
Conference: at that time. Ordinary
debating procedure will be observec
but no decision will be given. The
debate has been arranged with the
Columbia Broadcasting System, and
will be broadcast over Station CKAC
in Montreal. Itis probable that either
Moncton or Halifax will carry the
debate eastward, so that Dalhousie
students will have the benefit of this
interesting experiment.

Bread-line Students.

The latest sign of hard times according to the Toronto Varsity, is the
appearance of.a needy student in the
bread-line at one of the civic relief
stations, which has been duly chronicled
by the Toronto press. Commenting
on the matter the Varsity indulges in
some rather futile condemnation of the
provincial government's action in raising the university fees and reducing
the salaries of the professors. In
spite of any arguments to the contrary
however, the public will not likely
have much sympathy with the university. The student fees are still much
below those that Dalhousians have to
pay, and we may without fear of
contradiction say that their professors’ salaries are still generally higher
than those of our own opulent staff.
There can be no doubt that learning
is a luxury now from the viewpoint
of the man in the bread-line and has
to be treated as such,

| The Fight for U. B. C.

To all present appearances the
students of the University of British
Columbia will gain their objective in
the campaign to prevent the threatened
reduction of $195,000 in the government grant. An enthusiasm very
foreign to the Dalhousie temperament
has marked the effort of the students
there. After flooding the province
with a statement of the case, they

gathered the support and representa
tives of ninety-two organizations to
interview the Board of Governors.
Most notable among the student supporters was the Trades and Labour
Council. A student delegation appealing to the Governors for co-operation
and information were refused. The
Minister of Education said the matter
of the reduction was closed. | Nevertheless the students are undaunted
In a circular letter they point out that
the reduction will mean that about

one thousand students who normally
spend $750,000 in the province in the
year will go elsewhere to be educated
There are over two thousand students
now enrolled. Two
sent to Victoria to present the importance of the University to the Cabinet
but they did not receive
from that august body.
time the Board of Governors gave the
information the students requested for
statistical evidence,
Committee is further approachinglegislative members through the medium of
parents and
onstituencies,
perhaps far more effective
petitions.
grams to members of the Legislature
have also been sert out.
body are now covering the city of
Vancouver with a petition to the effect
that the people of the city are opposed
to any policy that will impair the
present standing of the University

students were

any hope
In the mean
The Publicity

influential men
a method

in the
which is
than any
Personal letters and tele
The student

 

 
 
    
  
  

They have organized the student body

thoroughly and seem solidly determin
= to gain their objective. May they
0 so.

thing’ to do. It offers the delectable opportunity to enjoy
gay, Social existence, to make charming acquaintances, to display
her physical gifts, and above all, ‘‘to geta man.” After her arrival,
becomes tremendously concerned about her “popularity” |
| the opposite sex, but cares little for serious study. She
with proud abandon her conquests at the latest dance, but

_ relates with prouc
; thinks not a whit about reading good books. Her conversation

a rich young Jew, Harry Levison, which
brings the story to a climax. Bulgin
sends an anonymous letter to Dick to
tell him of the goings-on. Dick rushes
home, Susan confesses, and he hurries
to, Levison’s office where he meets the
latter’s uncle who under the strain of:
Dick’s threats of violence to the
nephew drops dead of heart failure as
Dick leaves. He is arrested and
accused of the murder of Levison’s

 

The Dead

  

The Soap Box.

    

   
 

The most recent addition to college
news-sheets is the Soap Box of the
University of Toronto. It is the
mouthpiece of the Student League for

   
  
 

  
  

    
  
   
  
  
    
   

. a . He ; ys . a i ; . s 2
. _ is light, trivial, vapid, and devoid of thought. True, she learns] think when lordly winter storms
“how to v Rush white batallions o’er the land,

When snowflakes whirl like phantom

' to wear the latest clothes tastefully, to walk across the room

s

dignity, and to handle the perplexing impedimenta of the forms, uncle, but after all, justice triumphs, | Social Reconstruction, as its name
able with grace and skill. We do not mean to underrate} And north winds sweep across the ts 4 Edd oe aes Spasests a eee organization on
~complishment W. 7 é s el €r-|the campus. e first j
ee . ees. We ‘only ‘doubt whether 2 college ought send, ing that the best thing to do is to start . oe

thousand copies soon sold out and a
second edition was placed on sale
Student opinion seemed to favour the
paper, though one co-ed thought it
“a lot of ee and another wanted
to know ‘‘What is free speech?”’ The
Varsity commends the sheet with faint
praise and predicts a short life for it
and its outspoken opinions, for censorship in Toronto and particularly in the
University has a long arm and an
impartial grasp.

for training of this sort. gat Poor te ea all over again, and they catch the

. : ye ! aie iy next train for their gaa honeymoon.

here the educatic ie en 3 ‘ls. tach The style of the book is very read
Alind Sona on. of. the Bees ot ie 2 ae When snowdrops whisper to the spring, | able, and cleverly written. The auth
S the = de eper, thin lungs OF the spirit. in _ und, 20! And ferns uncurl beside the rill, or has apparently a definite moral to

ual pa has been awakened, no habit of inde-| When robins feel the urge to sing point out but one forgets all about
years make little difference

He college A lovesong to the daffodil, that in the movement of the story,
istes. If she leaves with a meaningless

 

   

A voice will reach their lifeless ear, until the end when certain tags of plot
A dream will tell them spring ishere. | are being clued up. However he is a
. decided relief from the sackcloth-and
aoe ashes manner of many modern novelists.

in Public Speaking.”

 

March 2nd, 1982

 

Resignation

©, the slow moving of the spheres
That are as sands to count my years,
And the lessons | must learn and learn,
Before there is an end to endless tears
Upon this green swathed cles of earth
That ruthless gave me ruthless birth,
Born to live my four score years and ten
Somehow I make the time be swift
and sure .
Andecarry high my head with other men
Until the end, when time shall be no
more
And all doubt gone, then for me
Shall death come quick and silently
To cool my nakedness in coc, brown sod
And show me the way that knows no
way to think,
But teads eventually to God.

ALUMNA.

 

Annual Report of
The President

for 1930-31

Probably the point of most concern
to the student in the President’s Report is the number enrolled in .the
College. The total number for 19301831 was 970, of whom 82 were enrolled
under King’s, an increase of 45 over the
previous year. Itis generally assumed
that the number is well over the thousand mark for this year. The concensus ot student opinion seems to be
that with the present facilities and
indeed with such additions as may be
made fcr some time to come the
number enrolled should not exceed a
thousand, and that a general raising
of the standard of entrance is not one
warranted but necessary to avod
overcrowding. Of the 970 students,
686 or 79 per cent came from Nova
Scotia, including 109 from Cape Breton. From New Brunswick came 101
students, from Prince Edward Island
63, and from Newfoundland 46.

Extension lecture courses were given
at Sydney and Glace Bay, six at each
centre. Some'use was made of broadcasting in that year, consisting chiefly
of student debates and musical programmes. Sixteen Travelling Libraries each of thirty books went out to
thirteen centres in Nova Scotia and
Prince Edward Island.

The Eddy Fellowships for women
were announced in April, 1931. The
Eddy Resident Fellowship of the
value of $500 is offered annually to
a woman graduate of Dalhousie; and
the Eddy Travelling Fellowship of the
value of $1500 offered every three
years for study abroad for a Doctor's
degree.

The total expenditure was $310,000,
of which Administration accounted for
$55,000 almost as much as the cost of
the Medical School, and not far from
twice the cost of Law and Dental
Schools together. Shirreff Hall. was
operated at a deficit. Of the total
income of $290,000 which is double
that of ten years ago, student fees
supplied $157,000.

 

Ten centuries of soft silence over Nara
And Nikko the holy place.

A carved old stone Buddha sits,
Green moss bearding his face.

The sombre forest broods over Nara,
The giant cryptomeria trees
Bend in stillness over a red lacquer
bridge,
And a temple’s mysteries.

A river, blue as melted sapphires
And a silver wnterfall.

A gilded dragon holds his bell.
Waiting the old priest’s call,

DOROTHY GORDON.

 

Commerce Notes

The regular meeting of the Commerce
Society was held at 64 Edward St. on
the evening of Feb, 23.

Geo. Thompson presented a financial
report of the Millionaire’s Ball. Congratulations are due to the committee
composed of Geo, Thompson, Gladys
Jost, Edith Allen, Bob Brown and
Laurie Hart, Don Mahon for this very
satisfactory report.

Plans for renewing the ‘‘ Millionaires
Banquet”’ were discussed. This Banquet has not been held during the last
three years and it is hoped that it will
again be made an annual institution of
the Society. A committee composed
of Merle Purtill, Geo, Thompson, Donald Archibald and James MacDonald
were appointed to make arrangements
for the Banquet. It will probably be
held around the last of March.

Samples of rings and pins with the
official insigna of the Commerce Society
were on display. These rings and pins
were very attractive and should make
quite an appeal to Commerce Students.
They may be obtained direct from
me oe Sons.

e speaker for the evening was
Mr. W. H. Hayes, General Sean of
the Mar. Tel. & Tel.’ Co, Ltd. He
spoke on ‘“‘The Importance of a Well
Cultivated Voice in Conversation and
The address was

thoroughly appreciated by all those
attending.
 

  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
    
 
  
   
   
    
 
  
   
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
    
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

1 racuous noises outside the
s. It turned out to be none
in His Holiness yodelling
ur Hair Has Turned to Silver.
censored the Pope confessed
x the bewitching influence
nm moon and a certain poetic
e had for a moment forgotten
ngent demands made upon his
is by his exalted office.

>

a

 

_ The Mount Allison Theologs played
. x tT Theda of basketball with Pine
ll Theologs on Thursday. The play
ast and clean, the final score
ig 22-14 for Pine Hill. A banquet
; tendered the visiting team after
_ the game. Much silvery-throated ora_ tory was revealed in the toasts and
responses made duting the course of
_ the evening, .
a Nap oe ae
r eee list at the Hill now stands
_ at fourteen. For a while before the
_ last case of flu developed the boys were
tty uneasy, But Shiek Vincent
ligingly added the redeeming one
the ill-fated thirteen, Bill Bennett

and Earle Pollett are being run off
_ their feet but then—what a wealth of
a enrscel A speedy recovery to
_ these unfortunates and to Harry Clarke
Fe _ who was again taken to the V. G.
a4 -* ;

___ Some of the more musically inclined
Pine Hillers have beert holding revivals
_. in the form of song services. Some
one has remarked that the advantages
of having the hospital room occupied
_ an be seen on such occasions. This
_~_—-unappreciative remai1k comes trom one
who in the act ot Screeching for
~  Rucky strained his larnyx. Now he
will have enough to Smoke Potatoes

 

Personals

Ss: _ The Infirmary at the Hall has not
seen sO many patients for some time.
_ During this last week six girls have
been sick in bed with flu. Teddy
_ Dorman, Fran Vassie, Barbara Walker,
_ Ella Hunt, Annie McLeod and Dorothy
- Doull, but we are glad to say that they
"ic re better. Miss Helen Robertson,
a graduate of Dal and R. V. H. has
been here at the nurse.
ay - soe! =

—

 

ee ; a

Lim 4 i +, Ae 7 .

ie _ Miss Ruth Duff, of Harbor Grace,
le Ne foundland, has been the guest of
liss Margaret McRae.

=

adys Jost missed dinner the other.
d we discovered later that she
talking on the telephone for
-we wonder which one it was.

College Sport
| Symposium of
week, the GAZETTE has
gem again on Dalhousians, memba bers of the teaching staff and the
- general student body, for the
_ purpose of eliciting opinion on this
question: HAVE DALHOUSIE STUNah _ BENTS COLLEGE SPIRIT? The
following are the views obtained
ina short canvass. On them, the
; _ GAZETTE does not comment.

a

a

S

- OPINIONS ON COLLEGE SPIRIT.
ae Miss Dixie Pelluet, lecturer in the

- Department of Biology 1 can’t
bear any display of the so-called college
spirit, if my classes began with Dalhousie yells I should loathe it. To
me there is nothing more abomnable
__. than to see girls cheering. In English
colleges there is no organized display
of college spirit. ‘‘Well-played” in an
ordinary tone of voice, is the only
expression of applause. I would like
to see that kind of spirit here..

Mr. Ralph W. Ells, instructor in
- Commerce. I do not think there is
much college spirit at Dalhousie. No
college activity receives much support,

 There-is absolutely no college spirit,
 noenthusiasm. In most colleges where
~~ such indifference is shown a quiet
pride in the University takes the
ely _ place of the ‘‘rah rah” but Dalhousians
take nosuchattitude. I think perhaps
_ the new gym will help to improve
conditions, as it will furnish a centre for
b

all activities. ~
_ Professor Bennett. The more one
hears of college spirit, tre less there is.
A pep-rally is a ccnfessicn of failure;
i nigahized futility shouting to keep its
courage up. College spirit, in the
"accepted sense, is as different from
___ energy, as effervescence from influence,
as taik from work. College offers an
Opportunity for interested people to
_ do as they please; these who are not
pleased to accept any of the opporar: ities are to be pitied rather than
_ encouraged, and no one man should
- Bee acgel to join every organization
and show his college spirit by shouting.
pirit in a practical world cannot
exist apart from substance. However
solitary and unadvertised the task to
which you are devoted, if you have
the stuff, and use it, the spirit will
2 é ate. It cannot be materialized
- from the vapours of talk. Every
honest thing honestly done because
the student wishes to do it, is so far a
mtribution to the tradition of the
lege, which is built upon performance
upon praise and promise. More
on the field and fewer on the side~ more in the library and fewer
‘ing for smaller reading assignnore variety in clubs with
nbers; more work, more
less talk: this the goal of the
rit that is wot encouraged by

aie Ie am
go yy ae”

ed
ee

~
—— 7

et Sa
fo
.

x
ah

- z : ¥
ase. > %,

a 7 cm ' = br
Pe ade R Pe ee
i ial et. Ped a ee he
rs Pie Ld 2 = Ke } in
VP RS gia, ee ae)
os ’ 7 1. i. Nee i ah Py ran
oe ne ar on tS
A Pg te oY ee LS
Bien on Se Am a
i eat is Sette ag ae }
4 lo a . te

lay night last, the still-]
te midnight air was broken

.

orities

  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
     
  
    
    
   
    

ae

‘Kappa Beta Phi Sorority.

Honorary President, Mrs. Hugh P
Bell was unable to attend due to illness

present,

was served about 11.30.

brass paper knife with the
Gamma Delta crest on it.

 

day before examinations.

for a few days.
T. C. examinations are a cinch is altogether erroneous. Like all examsthey are easy if one knows the work
Unfortunately everyone does not know
the work. (Possibly some readers wii
remember a question asked by a prom,
nent member ef the rifle team towards
the close of lectures last Wednesday
which will support my statement).

Some members of the King’s Coy.
have accused the writer of being sarcastic in the remarks about that unit
Let me assure them that there was no
such intention, my admiration of the
work which they have accomplished
in so short a time is quite sincere.

Hall News

re St

 

Midd Edythe Nelson motored home
to Stewiacke where she spent the
week-end.

 

Shirreff Hall was honored on Friday
by a visit of His Excellency the Governor-General and Lady Bessborough.
They inspected the various rooms of
the residence and were highly pleased
with it.

at Dalhousie
Campus Opinion

the cheer-leaders. My own observation of Dalhousie makes me believe
that the real spirit of the University—
and it very decidedly has one—is
opposed to boasting and display and
advertisement. It is soundly based
on a conviction that things worth
doing are done in a spirit of unobtrusive devotion to quiet work. If I
may venture one small personal criticism it is that my declining years would
perhaps be lightened by a little more
spontaneous fun—outside of my own
class-rooms of course. 
Professor Ernest Martin. You
tell me that some people have said
Dalhousie has no college spirit. I
think they are wrong. What would
you have? There are a_ thousand
students here, but you would not
choose to be on intimate speaking
terms with every one of them. Ifa
man does not know his neighbour in
classroom it is because you people in
the Maritime Provinces are descendants from English settlers. And
you know that an Englishman prides
himself on his reserve. He = says,
‘I'll mind my business, and you mind
yours.” So, the Dalhousians. It is
wrong, I think for a man to come to
college just to say that he has been at
college, that he has known Premier
Bennett, for instance, as a classmate.
But, | think the attitude of the Dalhousie student towards his university
life is commendable. My impression
of the Dalhousie studeats, generally, is
very good. I find them alive, active
and keen in their own interests. This
generation of st derts is more inclined
to a general caltural education. They
are different, | should gather, from the
preceeding generation, who weve intent
on specialization and hard steady work
in one channel.

Dorothy Vernon, prominent freshette, says, ‘I do not think we have
any college spirit. There isa fraternity
spirit, a Shirreff Hall spirit, a Pine Hill
spirit, an Engineering Society spirit,
almost any thing but a Dalhousie
spirit. I don’t “mean the collegiate
spirit either but the ‘‘one for all, all
for ene” idea,”

Lou Sproull, well-known member of
Class "33 and the Phi Kappa Pi Fraternity—I can say just one thing—
there ought to be a law against the
kind of college spirit we have here.

Mary Lee MacCoubrey. [| think
we have a college spirit. Living in a
city we cannot remain isolated as do
certain others in the Maritimes, but
while there is not much outspoken
interest, watch a Dalhousian stand up
for his college against any other -university on earth.

' Bob Inman. What do I think of
our college spirit? I can't say, 1
haven’t had any for two weeks.

(Continued from page 4)

C. O. r. C. Notes

March 2nd, will be the last lecture
Possibly one
will be able to see a little cramming
The idea that C. O

A

 

"

The Kappa Beta Phi Sorority entertained at a delightful tea on Saturday, February 27th, at the home of

Miss Marion Cameron, 111 South
Park Street. We were sorry the

.

.

Alpha Gamma Delta Fraternity.

An excellent dance was held by the
new members of the Alpha Eta Chapter of the Alpha Gamma Delta in the
tea room of the Nova Scotian on Thursday, February 25th, 1932. The members of the Kappa Kappa Sigma, who
had not gone international were also
Miss Haggarty’s urchestra
supplied delightful music and supper
During the
eleventh dance a tréasure hunt was
held on the first and second floors.
The hunt ended at the orchestra stand
where each of the boys received a
Alpha
Professor
and Mrs, Page were the chaperones,

nn

  

 

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,

Dear Sir:—

May I venture to commend your
recent action in support of your motto
“Stop The Drift,’’ and in doing so,
suggest the removal of another terrible
condition at Studley—a den of ‘‘sleepfulness!”

I refer to the ventilation (or rather
lack of it) in the Chem. Theatre in
the Science Building. Being forced
to take lectures (which have turned
out to be dozing periods) in that
“Black Hole of Dalhousie’ where the
stuffy, overheated atmosphere reeks
with a conglomeration of rank odours
that would do credit to any Chemist,
I protest against such unnecessary
conditions on behalf of the Class in
Phil. I. Were this class following a
lecture in Chem., there would be some
excuse; but being the first class in the
room three times a week, the atmosphere should at least be partially pure
By Saturday the room is well nigh
unbearable.

Surely the University authorities
understand the first elements of sanitary ventilation; and still more so
should they realize that the first prerequisites to good study are proper
heating, lighting and ventilation. Nor
should this letter be taken as representative of the students only; for
Dr. H. L. Stewart’s first remark each
morning is—‘‘Will somebody please
open a window!"’ But to those at the
rear of the room this means a draft blow
ing on their backs, Are conditions
such as these conducive to the best
attention and learning of the students?

Hoping that the proper authorities
will take immediate steps to correct
this, Iam,

Yours very truly,

A STUDENT

The Observer

While the old Gymnasium was known
to fame as Beazley's Baan, this new
edition justly merits the title, ‘‘Theakston’s Theatre.”

OF SERIL. 41,

 

History has been made during the
past week. The worm has turned
and at last some brave male has dared
to ask a girl to the Delta Gamma Ball.

And by the way, we hear that for
three weeks before the dance, Hardy
Parker made valiant but unsuccessful
attempts to get a room at the Nova
Scotian.

 

 

According to one of the freshettes,
when the Governor-General’s party
arrived at the Hall a little early some
people were taken unawares and when

| Miss MacKeen took them through the

ground floor wing Kay Hebb, who
was most unsuitably attired had
just time to jump into the closet
before the visitors entered her room,

Since Premier Bennett received a
threat of assassination Ray MacCarthy
has been toting a gun too. He even
carried a rifle to school the other day
and anxiously paced the floor of the
basement closely scrutinizing all newcomers. It is hard on us important
people, ain't it?

 

Inspired by the recent romance of
a prominent senior the whole school
is following suit, but honors this
week go to Ken Mahen and Dolly
Gray who held hands behind the
Studley radiator for nearly an hour.
To the unitiated this reminds us of
Dixie Pellnet’s remarks about the
‘biological urge.”

Joe Zatzman is through playing’
truth and consequences. He had to
remove his coat, vest and shirt the
other day and he caught a cold.

James MacKiatosh says the fresh- |
ettes at Dal are starting to high hat |
him. So he decided to go to the
Delta Gamma alone. !

Se |

Don Sinclair has obtained the record
long standing of visiting the hall. He
has been down 386 times in 6 weeks.
Miss McKean has sent him a bill for |
cover charges. But he can’t becharged
for using the light.

“Doug Pyke” fs the ideal college
student—the one who studies without |
consideration of a mere depue. He has
now 34 classes off—is taking 7 this
year—yet does not get a B. A. until ’33.

 

 

Observer heard Laurie Hart say that
‘Love is funny—up to a certain point.” |
We wonder if he decided that while |
driving home on the Bedford bus early, |
early, Saturday morning.

Fraternity News |

 

Last Thursday Ivening, Feb. 25,
Mr. Lorie Hart entertained the undergtaduate members of Delta Sigma Pi
Commerce Fraternity at his home on
Bloomingdale Terrace. Joe Mills and
his orchestra played for the 25 couples
at this delightfully informal dance,
At midnight a four course dinner was
served by the ‘‘Green Lantern.’’ And
‘twas not until 1.30 that Joe played
his sign-off number.

Tomorrow, Thursday, Mr. Fletcher
Smith has extended an invitation to the
Fraternity for a formal dance to be
held at his home on Tower Road. The
members of the fraternity wish to
extend their thanks to these two fellow
members for their courtesy.

 

The Student Forum

A Column Devoted to Comment and Controversy

 

 

  

. A e por = a - . aa oo a oe . ot —— — ~, — - r. r ‘ em
pon = ad a ne OO Late =i bps ees tan bt CE ——) , — pe ee ae he a, coal ae... ae PS 9) ee 8 ge ee
ee, ee A ee eet ON ee nes me EER NG gr Pe al ark ee Oe
- Pe eRe me Re WM ce he Cn hte tenia pee OL oP ek
fs r ~ e * er ae . oe ian Wh e iy i | ee = : va = - ‘ 4 a . ee 2 a, i ee ae » js ' 1 Z ss c ee 7 m, ee? 7 ‘e ' i i ‘ *.
" , a — ap mn a ; : Thy ae evga ie Cilia! Fy F i : $ Na “ EF = a $4)" Se oz” * he i ae - a! x
Cas ‘one h end - 7 . a) rym! : rw Pe ve npr) f is oe sie Y , ‘pel ee ak Bel ae . ~~. a i « 5
Pre Cae en ey eR ge Age geweres 44
Inf E sa ere ey" Waa. " it i a | ry ele 1% ‘ yet : q } thee x 1% LC :
ee - ae ae 7 tone ¥ Mi Fe oe re we a % es ere : } 2 * - ' 4
ee ms x > iw *} Ye net! a ‘ ol ‘ st
ne c a . ‘st So. oO : re > ™ ‘  f. f
, fare ee 8 7 , ,
toa Fant oe ae A, a
Bae a |
- * j ay J
ae DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
; | ’ pp
— a a eee pieincteeeinnensneaniinnseeteeniineteeeemann

     

 

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,

      
      
    
    

Dear Sir:—

   
   
  
  
 
  
    
   
   

     
  

As you are aware, the Model Assembly ot the League of Nations meets at
Fredericton, N. B., the 9th. and 10th
of March. Dalhousie has been invited
to send seven representatives, but at
the present moment we find ourselves
able to send only two—these through
the interest and generosity of Sodales.

  
       
      
        
           
   
       
 
      
 

In the past Dalhousie has always
been inaposition to send an able and
adequate representation to this Maritime Assembly. This year our representation is a matter of concern to
not only Sodales, but also to the
Student Body as a whole. A failure
to maintain our former prestige at
these meetings establishes in a way a

    
       
     
 
        
       
     
       
 

For

 

CIGARETTES
7

          
          
   
      
  
    
  

precedent. Our representation must fra r CERES yy ‘

not fall below the line to which the & reas inchesters
prominence of our University justly ILO Olen

entitles it. bsp kh » B&B i , , of course

A subscription list has been opened
for the purpose of financing one or two
additional members. As the cause is
a worthy one and its purpose educational, we solicit the interest and cooperation of the student body, without
whose help our efforts must be in Vain,

Winchester

CIGARETTES

Blended Right!

 

May I ask you, sir, to give this
letter a place in the columns of the
Gazette and solicit your own editorial
Support in bringing this matter before
the eyés of the students. [| am, sir,}

bas PS) i BR ke ke

Very gratefully yours,
7.

. bap
Sec’y Ceague at Dathousie.

A Poem

 

 

Shirreff Hall has gone decidedly
bridge crazy. Some of the girls have
even gone so far as to purchase a book
on contract. Seon no doubt they will
be challenging Culbertson and Lenz
as well as giving bridge lessons to the
Inmates,

McEVOY,

JUNIOR-SENIOR

eet ee ee ee
WiFirst Dance in the Gym
Joe Mills 6 piece Orchestra

COUPLB $.200 STAG $1.50

 

Miss Phyllis Harris was the guest
of Miss Florence Harris over the
[ could walk for miles and miles week-end.

With the fingers of mist on my face,
And the hands of the wind in my hair;

And my feet so light . |

1 could go anywhere;

With the roads of hills around

And the paths of woods ahead,
And a few stray stars to light,

I would whistle my way alone

 

 

 

 

No Mistake

You will make no mistake

G. A. McDonald

To the ends of the world tonight. TOBACCONIST in asking friends to dine, »
ALUMNA. Smokers Requisites of every loner i, have a you
description at ‘*The Green’? where

every effort is made to give

A complete stock of Domestic 3
satisfactory service..........

and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

1 SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

 

The Green Lantern
21 Spring Garden Road

Leather Goods

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of
all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours

Two travel for same as one.

More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six.

Portfolios,

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

    
 

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Household Science: Teacher’s

Halifax Ladies College

Conservatory of Music and Dietician's Certificate.

Musie in all Branches. Teacher's Certificate. | Graduation Diploma.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music. Dalhousie University.

MISS E, FLORENCE BLACKWOOD,B.A.. MR HARRY DEAN,

Principal. Director of Conservatory

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so

desired.

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

         
     
       

   
     

 

——

 

 

 

AS
OhA/ you dear!

Now we can invite

our friends and
know mag) be ate.
tocome. Its just what

Lwanted- a Piano from

PHINNEY’S

Sketches and quotations
gladly submittei without

 

Di too, may have music charge.
with all the delight that it ‘
brings in YOUR home. Henry Birks & Sons
Ordera LIMITED.
HEINTZMAN, WEBBER DIAMOND MERCHANTS CHOCOLATES
Halifax, N. S.
or

—

aaa ne
NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.
Write Or call for Calendar or advice.
F. H. SEXTON, Pres.
8888000808080 EE EEE Eee

 

BELL Piano to-day

Enjoy the great pleasure of self
expression in music now.

    

® ;
4MBE-460 BARRINGTON ST.
HALIFAX, N. S.

CS SS ee SeSeeecneee

 
i a 2

  
    

: our DALHOUSIE GAZETTE March 2nd, 1982

College Spirit
( cotinued from page 3.) +

— ——- a —— SS

Cabe Win Over lnterfacuity Sport Sport Conantat ee ten Clas
St. John’s rer ae Meeting

 

Ss
or

    

     
 

+

YC.

Wanderers

—_—_———

  
    
  
 

    
   

rs ee Th ee | Bowling. Although Dalhousie has lost another “3. Mollie Freeze. Certainly we have

ap eee - (Finald Standing). ‘ championship in the realm of sport, a college spirit. It’s one of the things
eetes > WL For Agst. Meds won the first interfaculty | adding basketball to the long list of AR T’S 732 which* aren't seen but" felt'here. AlWP mire 2 oF Pn W L For Against. Dalhousie Cubs sprang a surprise bowling league ever staged at Dal- lost causes this year, Tigers teams most every One 1s interested in some
Rey Wanderers 6 0 224 147 Jin the intermediate basketball league |housie when they emerged victorious| have nevertheless rendered a fairly : activity. There are too niany orBe sts Dalhousie 8 8 177 185 |Saturday night by defeating thecrack|in the final matches between Law, | good account of themselves in football, THURSDAY 12 O’CLOCK ganizations for people to turn out for
Tee vw Crk. 2-4 188 194 |St. John’s team, at. present leading Profs, and themselves, by one point.| hockey and basketball, the three major in ROOM 3 everything—you can’t expect them
ee sr N S. Tech. o 4 4396 200 |the league, by a score of 18 to 15.|In the first game, Law defeated the] sports of the college. Much of the n to do so. As for the absence of college
| ‘Tn the last game of the senior basket-| The Cubs showed a complete reversal | Profs, taking four points to the Profs|blame might be laid at the door of] Final Plans to be made for Grad | yells everywhere, people dislike making
| __ pall schedule, Dalhousie Tigers lost to|of form, and in the first half held St.]one, while Medicine defeated Law,| lack of facilities, tor the loss of the Week. themselves conspicuous, After all,that

side of the question is immaterial,
Claire Tanton from ‘‘the Island.’’

There are too many cliques here.

Everyone has to work together if we

winning all five points. In the deciding
match, Medicine took five points
from the Profs in a close game to win
the championship. The final standing

gymnasium has been a bad handicap,
especially to the basketball team,
which in the league just concluded has
displayed a lack of training rather

John’s to two baskets while collecting
12 points themselves. The Saints
staged a rally in the second session
that brought them near to tieing the

a superior Wanderers quintette by the
~ one-sided score of 52 to 25 at the Y
last Saturday night. The 1932 cham
ie
| I. S. S. SCHEME OUTLINED?.
i ae - pions of Halifax were at their best, an

 

 

displayed some fine combination and| score, but Dal played a close game, and | is as follows: than lack of material. With most o : (Continued from page 1) _ |are to have a real college spirit. Take
shooting to outclass the Tigers in all|held them to eleven points while the : last year's championship team back,]off. That was when at Dalhousie|George MacKie, who brought the
WP departments of the game. Dal seemed| Cubs scored 6. The Stoddard brothers Total Pins. Pts./ and several new stars available, the|class meetings, money from the class| hockey and football championships
hee _ unable to click at any time, and in the] were the pick of the Cubs, while J.| Meds 2,185 6] Dal team has not been able even to} funds wsa voted for German students] to the Engineers. He has the true
|. _ first half were trailing far behind in] McDonald and D. Payzant were the Profs 2,159 5] put up a fight for the title. and others in need. Help was scarcely | college spirit. There should be more
We: the count. They staged a belated|heavy scorers for St. John’s, getting Law 2,176 4 eto (e ever given as charity, but asa loan; the| of it. i ; ;
. e3 : < rally in the second half, but could not|7 points each to score all of their teams aks a Yet. beyond this handicap, it 18 an | jdeas of American and Canadian stu- J. B. . McEvoy. The university
Conia cope with the superior playing of the] points except one. The line-ups: undeniable fact that Dalhousie ents dents who worked their way through | spirit of co-operation and congeniality,
‘| ss Reds, despite the stellar playing of Dalhousie—J. MacIntosh (2), B.- Hockey. have been declining for the past five college were adapted to European} such as should exist in Dalhousie, is
Vien A Davidson, who turned in his best game MacIntosh. Képf: MacDonald Scott : ; _ | years or more in every sphere of ath- conditions and developed beyond thej unfortunately, sonspicuously absent
| sof the year, scoring 17 points to lead 2). Th , Fd) MacTiou Au (2) Another interfaculty championship] jetics. All very well to urge the need] point they have reached in this coun-| 1 am reliably informed that to some
‘| ———s Hoth teams in individual work. Wood- (2), . BS dd d (7) é Stod.- was decided last Thursday at the) of a professional coach for the football try. Thus cooperative student enter-| degree this spirit exists in the Profes| — worth and Piers-starred for the Wan- Smofsky, B. Sto Tot Lis. P “| Arena, when Engineers defeated Med- team, all very well that Dalhousie] prises of many kinds grew up: res-| sional Schools, Forrest Building. But
‘| derers, who showed themselves cham- dard (4), Mann. ‘Total 16. ene = the final 6 o Sa ne has lost her gym, — “te at ee taurants, stores, laundries, banks, loan| that it does exist in other Educationa
BP pion: 7 of itle i inning so 22ae title by a score o O 4. Ss th€/has no rink, as other colleges have,| funds; places were found for students] institutions in the Maritimes Provinces,
fear mer in The oe ee oge barene 4 Tacoma. eee score indicates, the game was clause but is not the root of the trouble in aAseeey and agriculture. This|I know for sure, having seen some
follows: y AD Brundage McDonald Marshall, Couch and hard fought, and the Engineers deeper down than this? Dalhousie] second phase of I. S. S. work still re- | evidence of it myself. Therefore, the
ats. - Wanderers—Guards, Fahie (5), C.|¢, (1) Mitchell. Total 15. had to overcome a two-goal lead, gained has been too prone to take athletes] mains a most important part of its| lamentable absence of it at Studley
ts . Harris, H. Harris, Sperry; centre, Sperry and Ells refereed. by Meds in the second period, to Win.| qeyeloped in other colleges and shove] program. Campus, should seem to lend emphasis
es centre, Grant (7); forwards, Rudder- Meds scored the first goal of the|/them on her teams; the college is} A third phase was found to have|to the proposition that the proximate
Bet ham (5), Piers (11), Doyle (9), Wood- game in the second frame when Don-| notorious for welcoming with open |arisen in. the cooperation between the|cause of the regrettable situation
| Ce wurth (15)... Total 52. ohue beat Hawboldt in the Engineers] arms athletes with a ‘‘rep” from other|]two groups of students, those who had] lies in the students themselves.
ae Dalhousie—Guards, Handler (3), SENIOR BASKETBALL LEAGUE nets with a hard shot from right wing-| colleges, ignoring the potentialities of] given help to the less fortunate, and Isabel Chipman. Why, yes, there
{  Dubilier (2), Kennedy (2), Clarke; SCORING A few minutes later McLellan repeated] ¢y¢ obscure student who is given little | thosé who had received it from thelis a good college spirit here at Dal| centre, MacRae (1), Lorway; forwards, r the performance, and _ the second] 4. no opportunity to ‘‘make™ a Dal} people who had once been their ene-| housie. True, there is a certain num|. _——‘ Fairstein, B. Stoddard, Bauld, David- Beviod “Daltade @2 | Pero ended with the Meds having};.4m or to develop his natural talent} mies: a basis for better understanding] ber, alone, who take an active interest
J}> > © son_(17). Total 26. Dovi Wanderers: - Bg apparently a safe lead. Both teams]/¢,. this or that sport. And the result] seemed to have been established; To] in extra-curricular activities, but if the
+e Referees Goudey and Hill handled H iN S: Tech 52 played fine hockey in the final, but the] ;. that Dal teams carry a preponderance expressly foster this better understand] others do not, it is their affair. If
i the game See ey ee Engineers had the edge, and their f athletes who have long since Out-| jing js one of the present ai tI. SJ&.;] proportionate attendance and interest
| e game. | Smith, Y. M. C. A. 39 MM raitk, Fexmuson (ete ere Dace eee re Pee ree MMA OL be Oech | Pee oa. “tee oe ;
‘nae eo. ; Pista Wah ake Pace 39 efforts began e te ‘ wi : . es lived their usefulness and are stil to provide a common meeting ground |in Sodales, Glee Club and athletics
i fx a : : Grant. Wanderers 39 and Christie lea eS fe attack, Bc carried because they have or used to for groups with differences of thought, } 1s not up to its proper mark—the fault
ce ‘ iY MC. A, 33 ee ee ss Oe ihe e ‘od have what iscommonly called a‘'name™ | and to help them to work together for lies, probably, in our lack of a gymBee Rudderham, Wanderers 3g |about half way through the period,| 2 cause he is a good fellow, or perhaps} peace. Towards this end the move-|nasium this year,
: ros Baicid Malhotese 32 ohare aweih Shae aa a oe because he belongs to a frat, he is kept | ment organizes small conferences, study
a - : ; ‘ ast five minutes to tie and wi ‘ hrough sentiment or] groups and trips. ; ; ; ;
F Wed. add Thur. Woodworth, Wanderers 30 game and the championship. The a ee nisi Aid ore we're & Besides the aims already outlines. Meanwhile more detailed information
March 2-3 a team lined up s follows: on the subject, it might be well to/I, S. S. is trying to make use of the |°" be obtained through members of

 

the Students’ Couneil, or from Harriet

Engineers—Goal, Hawboidt; de- .
Roberts, Shirreff Hall.

eee aes en eo a, ha contacts which it has in all parts of
4 ’ s - ; € ’ 4

point out that the control of sport has
the world, to help solve some of the

tended to remain in the same hands too

| | ~EDMUND LOWE

 

ee McLelian, Young, Donohue, Harries today in coatenee the actgenae® oF aes a university : its Ber at ;
. Se , : ; ae : 2: . fraternities as so € Y responsible for the 1e university authorities have layv- & T SE V C
e. Lee ee Friday and Sat. Y. M.C. A. Sat. March 5 Taylor and Wen. McDonald refereed. decline in athletics at Dathousic, and |oured the setting up of a permanent TUDEN R | E
pa. Le March 4-5 —__++ - the writer is inclined to take the same} committee for [. S.S. at Dalhousie. DRY CLEANING
| “Fi | Fi |” view. Last fall’s football team was WATCH FOR FURTHER ARTI<i ive Star _ eer, Waneeatee ys. Dalhousie N. F Cc U. S overloaded with players who belonged] CLES IN THE. “GAZETTE.” PRESSING
oh WITH ee : ° ° ° e ° to certain fraternities; similar condi- REPAIRING

IN
| “The Spider”

 

ries, Ferguson, Rood, Covert, Christie,

Akin.
Medicine—Goal,

Murray, LeBrun, Maxwéll; forwards,

Peters; defence,

BASKETBALL

 

long or in the hands of students too
closely connected with fraternities.
Many students at Dal are outspoken

 

, ds. EDWARD 8 p.m. Y.M.C.A.vs. King’s

ROBINSON

 

- Evenings 20c. and 30c. Admission 25e

 

BS. tween vole and ave Sea. oe a re
rs The Dalhousie speaker then went Next year, let’s all work to develop e: FROM THE
~ on to point out some of the unsatis-| players, 0 get out teams that include Holida a WINNERS START
me factory aspects of capitalism and that} the best possible men. Give every y For 60 years the REACH Trade
hes xe which, goes with it:. poverty. Ne| student the same chance as an old with Mark on Sporting Goods has been
aA showed how senseless the preset} player, forget favoritism, keep the CLIVE BROOK a mark of pesfeetion No matter
a9 system of business is and that many] frats where they belong, and Dal- 4 Phat. vole’ tavecteyancte fae bs r
é industries are over worked and crowded] fousie will have teams of which she Thu-Fri-Sat. we can supply you with equi satnt A
; Sims This leads to price cutting and in| wil] be proud, as proud as she was in March 3-4-5 that will help you piay cis gare
: general an instability of prices. He] the old days. with the best that’s in vou
discussed at length the great deal. of é<Me 99 1 you.
unnecessary advertising that goes on,| The Engineers, in winning the inter- Bi Shot CRAGG BROS CO
and showed how the public is pushed] faculty hockey championship, have g °9
into pone articles that are really] accomplished we feat of capturing two Soteds Limited
not of any use. interfaculty titles this year, hockey Hardware and Sporting Goods
3 ; Speaking of the enormous anon and football. No mean feat, when EDDIE QUILLAN HALIFAX, N. S.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
Rie IDEAL FACILITIES FOR

ae Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

Mens’ and Young Men’s

Gaionig Blue Suits

A Leading Value Anywhere At

$25.°°

EATONIA value proves

 

 

| States more competition,

 

tions exist in basketball and hockey
now; usually the managers are ‘‘frat
men,” and in all fairness the writer
at the same time believes that it is
only natural for them to press the
claims of particular friends or fellow
frat members, but it is a condition of
affairs which should not exist. Frats
have their place, but their place does
not include interference with athletics.

Debate

(Continued from page 1)

Mr. Kanigsberg, speaking for Dalhousie- University, mentioned as an
example of co-operation, the fact that
Mr. Matte from Ottawa had been
eating Nova Scotia fish ever since he
arrived in Halifax, Co-operation be
 

 

 

of competition in armaments,
Kanigsberg said that the nations of
today are spending millions more
than they ever spent before in the
history of the world. He said that
the amount of actual progress made
since the world began has not been of
any great importance but that there
had been decided progress in the ugly
art of war. He mentioned the part of
the League of Nations in the peace of
the world and said that its success lay ,
in the co-operation of all nations, not
in competition.

Mr. Matte of Ottawa University,
speaking for the Central Canada
Team followed Mr, Kanigsberg. Mr.
Matte showed that the Opposition had
offered no substitute for competition
and said that he could not see how man
could progress without competition or
some equally good substitute. He
demonstrated that through Confederation Canadian Provinces had co-operated in order to offer the United
He felt that
competition was just a greater degree
of co-operation, and that by co-operation competition could be carried on to
a greater extent. Co-operation intensified competition.

In University life, what would we do

it is considered that the Engineering
membership at Dalhousie is relatively
small. In the field of bowling, Medicine has emerged victorious after a
close final series with Law and the
Profs, and there now remains to be
decided only the basketball championship. At the track meet last fall,
Commerce gained a title for that
faculty; it is a strange circumstance
that Arts and Science, the largest
faculty in point of numbers, has not
won a single championship this year.

Following the Dal-Wanderers basketball game last Saturday night, it was
announced that the players will hang
up their shoes for the season. While
the team failed to win the title, they
have the consolation of having among
their number the leading scorer in the
league, Harold Davidson. ‘‘Davy,”
by scoring 17 points Saturday night,
annexed a total of 62 points for the
season, leading Doyle of the Wanderers
in second place by 4 points.

a ee piers
INTERMEDIATE BASKETBALL
LEAGUE.

EATON’S

EAT

 

I ea same principle had brought bad types| representatives ot the Student Counci i | ;
RITIMEs = Peneie ayer and = N. F.C, U.S.,, the F acuity a Halifax, 3 ‘a "; Canada. | es,
FS ali t ma r : A

hese. of thi vations. y e busi : ee at a luncheon at the Nova :t%

 

ON

without competition? In athletics and

that being wel] dressed is not ;
in our academic work we depend on

(Standing to Feb. 27).

major problems confronting student
life, subjects such as the overcrowding
of the universities, and the true func
Special

 

 

—We call for and deliver.—

Cousins, Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 RobieSt. 881 Barrington St
Telephone Lorne 2323

 

CASINO

Mon-Tue-Wed.
Feb. 29 to March 2nd

“Husband’s

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Congratulations

We extend our hearty Congratulations to
the Board of Governors of Dalhousie
University on the completion of the

new Gymnasium.

This building is, we understand, the most
modern of its kind in the Dominion, and we
echo the wish of President Stanley in ‘‘That
the dream of the Board of Governors shall

not become a Nightmare for the Finance
Committee.”’

: - NE
a matter of cost! These sults, pomEeauion to find the best men, how St. John’s ‘ -* ae este
; ; could it otherwise be done? Mr.|\ 3 » 97 é
in snappy single breasted Matte then went into the business poe : : ane ao May we call your attention to the fact that
models for men and young |Site of the matter and pointed out|Dathousie 2 4 114 163
that without competition there could | Ra!ho B+ ates eee our show rooms are the most modern in

men, tailored from anall wool be no true market price.

botany serge,

Discussing public ownership of utilities he assured the audience that the
B. B. C. in England was a failure and
that the Telephone system in Great
Britain is not to be compared with th
Canadian systems. He stressed the
fact that in public ownership, hence no
competition, there was a tendency to
set the prices at any point, fair or not.

Mr. Kanigsberg then made his brief
rebuttal. He quoted Burke who once
said, ‘‘Analogies to adorn are not
premises from which to argue.” Mr.
Kanigsberg summed up his case and
in conclusion pointed to the fact
that although in «many cases the
principle of competition had most
certainly helped the progress of the
world; that in oe more cases this

r

are sure to
please the most particular
dressers at a comparatively
small outlay. See this popular EATON line in our...

Men’s Wear Department on
your next visit to the store

—_—

Main Floor.

o

ridiculed
proper building.”
a forward step in erecting this new
Service Building.
tinue to be Dalhousie’s Cinderella?

i

IS MUSIC DAL’S CINDERELLA?

(Continued from page (1)
Dalhousie and Halifax join in bringing
world talent to the Maritimes has been
or poorly patronized—'‘no
Dalhousie has taken

But will music con
——
At the close of the argument the

judges, Dr. More of Kings, Dr. M.
Cummings and Rev. H. B. Clarke
conveyed their decision by ballots, to
the chairman
result to be favourable to Dalhousie.

who announced the

After the debate, Sodales entertained

the four debaters, the judges, and

Canada for the display of Furniture and
Home Furnishings, and are so fitted to render
you the most efficient service possible?

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes”
448-450 Barrington'St. |

Be i PS

 

   

Pe oat age
