 

 
 
  

Dr. MacMillan
Addresses
Sociology Club

|**Province of Social Legislation,’’ Subject

Pine Hill Presents|
Annual At Home

  
 
  
  
  
    
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
    
    
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
   
  
 
    

 

Excellent Show Staged
by Collegians.

ee et

_ Once a year Pine Hill decks itself in
splendor and throws an “At Home.
It is the one occasion when the severe
and well-guarded masculinity of the
Residence is graced with the beauty
of the fairer sex. This annual function
has deservedly come to be recognized
as the social event of the college year
a and the ‘At Home” held Friday the 12th
ord strengthened this traditign. Beautiful
women, a delicious dinner, gay decoraBe tions and a splendid program all con
ae? tributed to make a memorable evening
a at
At 8 o'clock over one hundred
couples, including members of the
‘Pine Hill Faculty and their wives and
some members of the Board of Goverits nors of Pine Hill, filed into the Lining
ns Hall which was prettily decked with
ap red and white streamers, with red
~~ gilhouettes adorning the walls and
fas - lights softly shaded. The tables were
daintily laid with place-cards, paper
hats and Cupid effects appropriate
to the Valentine season. At the far
send of the Hall an artistically illumin_ ated silhouette of a golden moon, and
two absorbed lovers attracted much

Discussing the ‘‘Province of Social
Legislation,” Dr. J. W. MacMillan,
Professor of Sociology, University of
Toronto spoke before a well-attended
meeting of students Monday afternoon
in the Arts Building. Prof. MacMillan
is at present in Halifax with the Royal
Commission inquiring into the Nova
Scotia Coal industry. His visit to
Dalhousie was sponsored by the Sociology Club.

Dr. MacMillan, speaking of the
progress of government aid in curing
social ills, pointed out the suspicion
that leaders of industry had held ot
government interterence during the
laissez-faire methods of the Industrial
Revclution in Britain. Witn a genera\
upward trend through the 19th century, Dr. MacMillan said, government
legislation in social matters has progressed to the place where it is welcome
and in many instances sovght. It has
been felt in some quarteis that any
great amount of mass legislation in
social conditions would lead to a loss of
individuality and a retarding of healthy
competition. Results have not borne
these Opinions out. Australia may be

 

‘ attention. The dinner itself was above cited as a case where in a new country
wa a criticism and the musical numbers—| social legislation has been carried out
Pia Where Irish Eyes Are Smiling, by M.}lavishly and with beneficial results.

Kitazawa. Selection from Carmen by| [n Great Britain the operations of

the Pine Hill Stringed Ensemble and
- two numbers by the Chorus—received
- with well-deserved applause. During
‘i the dinner Clarence Nicholson read to
ss the company a number of telegrams
_ from distinguished world personages
conveying greetings and congratulations. ~Noticeable among these was
_-— one from Al Capone who desired particularly to be remembered. to his old
_° After Dinner the couples strolled

through the three large rooms decorated
by the Theologs, Arts & Science stupee s; and the Meds. The Billiard
- room was one glorious profusion of
ahoae Blue and White—Pine Hill’s colors—
and provided with well arranged and

social laws have cleansed the country
ct a gieat deal of low drinking, distress
and poverty. Such enactments as:
Factory and Health Laws, Unemployment Insurance and Workmen Compensation Acts have resulted to a
marked degree in making a brighter
and more prosperous industrial class.
The rollowing theory was given by
r. MacMillan as a ‘blanket’ tule fo
Social Legislation: “When a thing is
very desirable or on the other hand a
thing is very intolerable and 1edress
can not be had in any other way, then
the state has a right to interfere.”
Two writers, Benthem and Osler had
done a great work for social progress
under legisiation. Benthamism had
‘raised the price of humanity.’ Osler

    
  
   
       
 

     
 

fy comfortable seating facilities. The cen ”

age tre of Sttection-— the chef d’oeuvre of | began the movement tor the relief of
ey the Theologs—was the miniature white of industrial victims. The outcome

a church with its colored windows and |°f a popular interest in the ware of
7) itz green lawn; and bebind the church | ndustry and society as resulted in
ea ete Sete He sanded, walls Trade Unions, Business Liabilities

and its raised mounds over which
stood the tombstones of many Hillers
with humorous if pre-mature epitaphs.
a At the far end of the graveyard the
aa white robed figure of a guardian angel
dwarfed by comparison the tiny tombstones. The whole representation was
exceptionally well done and the Theologs deserve congratulations.

% _ After going the rounds of the rooms
described above the company repaired
to the College Building for the official
opening of the P. H. N. S. Radio
Station which is associated with the

Y. M. I. Broadcasting Corporation.
The stage was decorated in Blue and

- White and equipped with footlights
and P. H. N. 8. and Y. M..-I. microyhones. Dr. C. McKinnon excelled
1imself in the inavgural address and
was given deafening applavse. Many
Happy Returns of the Day, rendered

. : by the Pine Hill Chorus was followed
Ves by a witty speech of welcome by
Onan Gordonium XXX. The Stringed Enré semble followed with Straussiana (Ser
ra edy) and Marche Militaire (Schubert)
ard, which were rendered to perfection
ae M. Kitazawa sang next two solos in

(Continued on page 4)

Acts, and the Co-operative Buying
movement. All these results point
to a sort of Socialism, a tendency that
still progresses.

Sodales Debate

 

On Thursday of this week Sodales
is to present another Parliamentary
debate. Aresolution that ‘This House
disapproves the fiscal policy of the
Federal Government”’ will be submitted
by Mr. T. D. MacDonald. It is expected that Mr. J. M. MacDonald, of
Tory fame, will lead in the opposition
to the resolution. Dean Smith is to
occupy the Speaker’s chair which, in
view of the boisterous nature of the
last Parliamentary debate, promises to
be a task which will require a bit of
doing. The party whips, who on the
last occasion were somewhat remiss,
promise to turn out their cohorts in full
force. It is the sacred duty of every
student who makes any pretence to the
bearing a party stripe to appear on
this occasion for the honour of his
cause.

Visits

 

k Directs Show ;
| Fraternity

Moirs

Members of Delta Sigma
Pi See Industrial Sights

 

—_—- +

On Tuesday, January 26th, the
Beta Mu Chapter (Dalhousie) of the
International Fraternity of Delta Sigma
Pi made a complete tour of inspection
of Moirs candy factory, under the
competent guidance of Messis. Hoiloway and Davison, members of Moirs
staff. These two gentlemen explained
the many points of interest in Moirs
method of candy making. Moit1’s
factory is one of the largest on the
North American continent, with the
most modern and efficient machinery.
The members of the fraternity were
shown everything from beginning to
end, and the tour through the factory
was most beneficial and instructive,
and all the boys agreed that it was
most interesting.

* .
ne ee

 

 

 

avis

(aK LEIP SO

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 17th, 1982.

RS
MARY LEE McCUUGREY.

— eee

Kappa Kappa Sigma

Becomes Chapter of
International Sorority

The week-end of Feb. 12th. was an 4, Miss Margaret Hilchie and
outstanding onefortheformer members| 5. Miss Helen Clare both from
of Kappa Kappa Sigma Sorority. | Tau Chapter, Toronto.

Sixteen of the members founded tne’ 6, Miss Helen Marie Cooper, from
Alpha Eta Chapter of the Internatioral Chi Chapter ot Michigan State College,
Fraternity of Alpha Gamma Delta East Lansing, Mich.

and four of the members were pledged.» 7%. Miss Margaret Cameron, from
Alpha Eta is the first international Alpha Zeta Chapter at MacGill,
chapter on Dal campus, and is the Montreal.

fifth chapter in Canada. | Friday afternoon the pledging cere
On Thursday evening seven delegates MOny was held in the chapter room
of Alpha Gamma Delta arrived in When 20 former members of Kappa
Halifax. They were:— _ Kappa Sigma were pledged into Alpha

1. Mrs. Lorna Wilson Brigden, Gamma Delta. In the evening the

wierd : regular initiation ceremony took place
2nd. Grand Vice President of Alph? at the home of Mrs. H. H. Marshall
: 295 Tower Rd.

Tau Chapter at Toronto; ae
’ : 4 | Those initiated were:—
2. Miss Julia Riser, Inspector, 4 Barbara Barnhill, Beverly Chipman,
member ot Mu Chapter from Alabama. Mary Currie, Doreen Harper, Sheila
3. Miss Margaret Dow, Director McManus, Mary Lee MacCovbrey.
of Pledges and Examination, from Jean Maclean, Marie Macmillan, KathTau Chapter, Toronto. erine Moxon, Laura Marshall, Marion

 

University Broadcasting

EDITORIAL (2).

 

Unfortunately a university is not a self-supporting institution
The tuition fees, large enough as they may seem to the student, do
not go very far to defray the expenses that the education of that
student entails. This is particularly true at Dalhousie. Nor are
the tuition fees adequately supplemented by the interest derived
from endowments. As a result it becomes frequently necessary
for a university ‘‘to go to the country” in order to secure the money
necessary to carrying on the Work of education.

Out in British Columbia, the economy policies of the provincial
government (whereby the annual grant to U. B C. has been reduced by about half) have sent the University of British Columbia
to the Country in a very real way.

‘To save the degradation of their institution from a first rate
to a fifth rate institution, with a corresponding fall in the recognition given its degree the students have begun a campaign to make
the province of British Columbia “university conscious.’ So, it is
hoped, will the pressure of public opinion be brought upon the
government.

Dalhousie is not a government-run institution, but her future
prosperity depends no less than does that of U. B. C. on the reputation she has established for public service. The man who contributes to a university is usually the man by whom public gervice
is most commended.

Other Universities in Canada are serving the Dominion by
contributing, through the medium of radio broadcasting, to the
nstruction and worth-while entertainment of Canadians. There

i room in this field for Dalhousie too.

ee ee

 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
  

Model Assembly
To Be Held Soon

Delegates to gather at
U.N. B.

Indications point to three delegates
from Dalhousie attending the Model
League of Nations Assembly, that
meets at Fredericton, N. B., the 9th
and 10th of March. Five principal
universities of the Maritimes, Mount
Allison, Acadia, Dalhousie, King’s and
University of New Brunswick are sending representatives while St. Mary’s.
St. Francis Xavier and St. Joseph’s
have been invited to participate.

Dalhousie Sodales, with the choice
of sending six members, has promised
its support in the financing of two, it
is reported. An attempt is_ being
made also to finance an additional
member through other channels. King’s
College has the choice of three memberships and a particularly strong
field of candidates for the honours—a
number of students taking higher
Political Science classes. The financing of delegates to the Assembly from
King’s comes before the Students’
Council of that institution today or
Thursday.

Delegates from both Dalhousie and
King’s College have given an excellent
account of themselves in the past.
This year, one cf the most interesting
and vital of World issues is coming up
for discussion before these two groups.
Dalhousie’s chief speech is to be made
by her member-tor Japan: to oppose a
motion by China ‘‘for a cessation of
hostilities and prevention of further
aggression in Manchuria.’’ The Chinese member, proposer of the above
motion, is to be a delegate from King’s.
The dehate over this issue should
prove one of the most lively features
of the Assembly.

Other speeches likely to come before
the League will be a proposal and
opposition of ‘‘a motion tor the revision
of the Treaty of Versailles by Italy,”’
‘‘a proposal by Great Britain for the
betterment of economic conditions and
co-operation in economic reconstruction,’ and, ‘‘a participation of a member for India in the discussion of the
Sino-Japanese dispute initiated by
China and Japan.”

The Model Assembly was initiated
in the Maritimes in 1928 under the
sponsorship of the League of Nations
Society in Canada, who came forward
with financial aid at the Assembly's
inception. The secretary of the League
at Dalhousie is Mr. J. B. McEvoy.

Due to the great distance and consequent higher railway tare tuis year,
Dalnousie's representation will be limited. The authoiities look forward to
financing at least three members,
preterably thcse who have participated
in former Assemblies. But as _ the
purpose. of this annual scheme is
chiefly educational, favorable consideration will be given to new material.

Shirreff Hall
Notes

Miss Elizabeth Murray and Miss
Margaret MacRae spent last week in
the infirmary at the Hall, bothhaving
very heavy colds. They are better
now, and are up and about again.

 

Miss Lou Grant spent the weekend
at her home in New Glasgow.

Miss Kay Napier, who had to dis
continue her year at Dal on account of
illness, has sailed to spend some time in
Bermuda,

NOTE. The Delta Gamma dance
is to be held on the 2£th of February
at the Nova Scotian Hotel, with Miss
Haggarty’s orchestra supplying the
music. Will the girls please get their
invitations immediately from either
their class representatives, Dorothy
Redmond or Teddy Dorman.

The Kappa Beta Phi sorority hold
their annual dance at the Lord Nelson
Hotel on Monday, February 8th.
The guests were received by Miss
Lilian Sadler, president, Mrs. H. P.
Bell and Mrs, Saunderson. The committee in charge were Ruth Crandall,
Margaret Fairweather, Margaret SadMargaret Fairweather, Margaret Sadler and Gladys Jost. J. D. Sadler,
Yale Brody and their orchestra played
with their usual success and the last

enjoyable evening.
ers, are in the city visiting friends.

Hall.

waltz, played at 2.30, ended a most

Miss Zoe Patterson and Miss Frances Beatteay, two former Shirreff Hall
Miss Margaret Stables, Dal ’29, was
down from Windsor visiting at Shirreff

No. 14

Prof. Thomson
Speaks to

Student Group

ete

Talks To Round Table
Club on the Race Problem

‘‘The Economic Consequences of the
Race Problem’’ was the title of an
interesting address delivered before the
Dalhousie Round Table Club by Professor J. S. Thomson of Pine Hill
College, on Thursday evening last.
A large number cf the members and
their guests were present, and all
enjoyed the masterful, comprehensive
manner in which the speaker treated
his subject.

At the outset, Professor Thomson
explained that the very nature of his
topic forbade any summary consideration. He would be compelled to restrict his remarks merely to certain
salient features of the vast field deceptively grouped under the simple,
theugh significant, heading ‘The Race
Problem.”” He pointed out how this
tremendous. matter was illustrated
most clearly in contemporary civilization, in South Atrica, in Australia in
the southern United States, on the
west coast of North America and on a
gigantic scale in the far East. These
places were witnessing many different
races of humankind, separated widely
by colour, by creed and by custom,
struggling for the right te be recognized
as equal with one another, and especially with the great Anglo-Saxon division, which is now to all intents and
purposes on the top of the heap. Such
seething masses of people, some of
them like the negroes of the United
States and the natives or South Africa,
already liberated; others, like the
Japanese, determinedly seeking a place
in the sun, represent among othe1
things a colcssal economic force that
must be reckoned with in any adequate
cor sideration of the world dilemma of
today.

«svt, Thomson illustrated this point
by presenting many interesting and
pertinent examples. One, with which
he chanced to be particularly well acquainted, referred to the city of Dundee
in Scotland. Now. that centre had
been the chief seat of the jute trade in
Great Britain a generation ago. Many
factories were erected there and an
enormous number of workers had been
keptactive. At the present time, these
factories are shut down and the labourers unemployed because of the fact
that the jute industry hasbeen transferred to India, where there existsa
superabundance of cheap, coloured
labour. The Indian natives, who work
for ridiculously small pay, have a very
low standard of living; nevertheless,
they rorce the white man to lose his job.
Similarly in South Africa. The coloured men there will toil in the diamond
mines for paltry salaries, and thereby
prevent Anglo-Saxon miners from obtaining work. When the United States
negro was liberated from the toils of
slavery, he constituted a tremendous
economic problem which even yet
harasses the South. Perhaps the most
urgent of all at the moment is the
Japanese necessity for expansion. Here
are millions of Japs, hemmed in on a
tiny island away out in the Pacific.
Their population has increased so
rapidly that it is quite imperative that
they shouldexpand. But where? Can
ada excludes them, Australia does the ———__

same; and so does the United States.
The only remaining logica! place is the
rich territory of her old enemy China.

 

Addresses Club

 

 

 

 
  
  
  
 
  

   
   
   

1869, ‘The Oldest College Paper in America.”
itor: | Managing Editors:
. MacDONALD, B.A, § THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
0 WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
“Associates:

H. B. CHANDLER
LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.
DANIEL SPRY
ELIZABETH MARCH
T. W. CRAWFORD

Sports Editor:
R. D. DUCHEMIN
B9603

News Editors:
MARGARET DORMAN
EDWARD B. HIGGINS
ELIZABETH MURRAY

RUTH CRANDALL Asst, Business Manager:

CHARLES CLARKE, B. A
B2436
_ Proof Editor:
AARON ZIVE, B. Se.

 

 

- :
Saul i

Pi THE LITTLE THEATRE MOVEMENT.

Those enthusiastic exponents of the histrionic pastime, who
‘just a short while ago established the Halifax Theatre Arts Guild,
Many laudatory comments have been bestowed upon the group
for the practical enterprise they showed in constructing a miniature
playhouse, and portraying therein a number of interesting, worthwhile dramatic productions. The latest, a three-act comedy
entitled “Green Stockings,’’ presented under the distinguished
_ patronage of President Carleton W. Stanley, seems to have been
an unmitigated favourite with the general public. The play, whose
east included several Dalhousians both past and present, was
enacted before well-filled houses during the whole of last week,
--—s and naught save praise was expressed by every audience.
---—--‘Tt is extremely refreshing in these days when the blatant, me- chanistic ‘‘talkie’’ wields its baneful influence over the theatre_ going populace, to see a wholesome attempt to revive the oldfeciioned presentation of dramas. There is an intensely actualistic,
human, spirit about the latter, that is sadly lacking in the drab,
pric: colourless entities of the average moving picture. The spectator
_---—sof even a mediocre play, somehow feels he is witnessing the conflict
of passions and emotions in real, flesh-and-blood persons; not in
Rm - the pale phantoms which flit across the silver screen. We sincerely
| an hope that the Little Theatre Guild will enjoy a constantly increas_--——s ing -prosperity, for it is doing far more to encourage faithful, miBini ___ erocosmic sketches of life, than the most sumptuous motion-picture
ba pea palace. The mightiest Playwright who ever lived, once said in an
immortal passage, that “‘all the world’s a stage, and all the men and

ci eae women merely players.” You will notice however, he made no

Rae fet» mention of movie-actors. |
ROR Sy Sk _ ‘TRIBULATION AT U. B. C.
Sse a:

The Editors of the Gazette were interested to receive last week,
a copy of the circular letter which is being distributed by the
student publicity bureau at the University of British Columbia,
in the interests of their Alma Mater. As the majority of our
_—s readers know, that college has the sad misfortune to be under
_——-—-—s« government control, and is largely dependent for its financial weles Tat Oe upon the magnamity of the august fathers of the province.
| -~—-- This year, the Tolmie administration with the profound wisdom
| -~—~—s ¢haracteristic of such bodies, saw fit to reduce the University’s
| -——-- grant almost fifty percent. The result in academic circles has been
_-_-very serious, in order to make both ends meet, the college authorities will be forced to abolish certain faculties, discontinue all research work, and probably dismiss many of the best men on the
professorial staff. A number of scholars in their junior and senior
years will doubtless be compelled to abjure further study. The
whole situation, in short, is deplorable.
In an energetic effort to ameliorate the wretchedly stupid
and short-sighted policy of the local government, the students of
U. B. C. have formed a publicity bureau whose duty it will be to
bring home to the people of the Pacific province, how vitally assocWate iated is the healthy development of their native land, with the
well-being of the great University. ‘‘We are convinced,’”’ reads
the first pamphlet issued, “that British Columbia will be less
capably administered, less prosperous, less far-sighted, and that
the level of its economic and social conditions will be lower, if the
effective working of the University has been interrupted. And
; we feel sure that the future, immediate and ultimate will always
contain greater potentialities for improvement, and fuller possibilities of realization, if its population receives a steady flow of people
who have received such ideas and such training as only a properly
functioning university can give.”
_ Even if one remains a bit skeptical about this beautifully idealistic picture of the modern college, one must certainly admire not
_ only the flowery verbiage in which the account is couched, but also
_ the indomitable spirit displayed by our fellow-students in the far
- West. They are determined that their university shall not suffer
hig eS _ merely because of the muddled minds of a few astigmatic politicians.
| And we must bid the crusaders Godspeed in their courageous
_-——s campaign, while at the same time we breathe a silent prayer of
| thankfulness that Dalhousie is and always will be free from any
K such tribulation. |

ON CULTIVATING A SENSE OF HUMOUR.

It is a curious psychological commentary on human nature,
to note how very few persons upon this queer, old terrestrial orb,
possess any real sense of humour. We do not mean by that, the
common ability to appreciate an impersonal joke; we refer rather
to the rare and valuable gift of being able to laugh at oneself. Most
of us, in our heart of hearts, are obsessed with our own seeming
_-~-—s importance. We secretly believe that we are excellent fellows,
popular, brilliant, and of tremendous significance to the world.
__ Outwardly of course, we may, like Uriah Heep, affect an ‘‘umble’’

; attitude, for the reason that we desire to add modesty to our other

__- impeccable traits of character. Yet deep down in our innermost

 

   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
     
      
  
  
  
  
     

   

le, we may be huggi ig ourselves in a paroxysm of self-love;
1 should anyone make fun of us, contradict our own cut-andd system of opinions, ‘or politely inform us that we know
. utely nothing, we immediately feel tremendously offended.
«It should be the constant aim of everybody who is seeking to
become really educated, or who is striving to attain a mature,
cultured, personality, to Machewe (hE Haicious habits of thought.

  

 

 

ae ;
aA ie tee iy e
wag

eS

 

  

COMMENT

The Week at Ottawa
The Disarmament Conference

The Week in Parliament.

The Debate on the Address ended
abruptly after two sittings, evidently
catching all parties by surprise. Order
papers were not prepared and the
House found itself in the position of
having little ready business to hand.
The Opposition has taken the Government to task for its lack of preparedness, though the unprecedented brevity
of the Debate might be pleaded in
extenuation. That a proceeding which
last year filled over a month of the
session was disposed of in such short
order may be an indication of a more
business-like temper in the House.

No amendments were moved to the
Address, Mr. King contented him
self with a comprehensive attack on the
points of the Speech from the Throne
Messrs Gardiner and Woodsworth also
spoke at some length and painted vivid
pictures of desperate conditions in the
West. They attacked in particular
the proposed cut in the salaries of the
lower-ranked civil servants. Only two

other members participated in the
debate. Mr. Hackett made some
observations on the C. N. R.; the
irrespressible Mr. Pouliot, in a_ six

minute speech, congratulated himself
on the successful conclusion of his
efforts for the construction of the
Rivere du Loup station.

Senator Meighen, Government leader
in the Upper House, announced the
personnel on the Senate committee to
investigate therclationship of Senators
McDougald, Raymond and Haydon
to the Beauharnois project. The Senate then adjourned until March 1.
The committee will function during
the recess.

A select committee of the Commons
is to be set up to study any bills or
motions affecting the. Civil Service.
A motion has been submitted by a
Conservative member to place appointment to the outside Service in the
hands of the Ministers, a move which
prima facie, might be called reactionary,

The bil] to amend the Fisheries Inspection Act met with some discussion,
especially from Nova Scotia members,
It was given second reading and sent
down to committee for further discussion on the objections. A Liberal
motion calling for inquiry into the
wholesale price of gasoline was accepted by the Government. Numerous
questions were placed on the order
paper and some of the replies were
tabled during the week. Some minor
bills were given reading.

Announcement was made by the
Prime Minister that the estimates
would be brought down on Monday
With the estimates, and further business
which the Government. has now had
time to prepare for submission, the
next week should see more activity and
longer sittings.

The Disarmament Conference.

The Geneva Conference has now
been in session for the better part of
a fortnight. The time has so far been
occupied with preliminary declarations
of principles by the heads of the various
delegations, and as was anticipated,
the two fundamentally different points
of view on the disarmament problem
have been brought out very clearly
by their principal proponents.

Someone, basing his view on conferences of the past, has characterized
the disarmament conference as an
international meeting at which nations
are represented by delegates who seek
to thereby increase the war powers of
their respective states. This view
depends upon the circumstance that
war power is largely a relative matter.
It imputes to the individual sovereign
state a double motive:

(1) Tofprevent any weakening, and
to strengthen if possible, its existing
relative position of power.

(2) To cut down its armament
overhead so far as consistent with (1).

It is very evident that this type of
conference has its own virtues. Any
reduction on the high cost of armaments
will commend itself to Finance Minister
and taxpayer, while any fixing of
proportional strengths in some measure
removes the war-breeding propensities
of the armament race, Yet the utility
of such a conference, even though it
meet with a success far and beyond
that of conferences in the past, is but
a temporary affair. To be in any way
lasting it must presuppose willingness
on the part of the more important
nations to have their military and
naval powers limited, and limited ina
degree satisfactory to themselves and
all others. It must presuppose a wide
use of the “yardstick’’ method in
reduction—a method which is restricted in its application so long as
nations must rely on their own armaments, and a method beset with a
multitude of technical problems.

We may presume that the goal toward which workers for disarmament
tend is that happy condition when the
only armed forces necessary to a state
will be those required to keep down
piracy and brigandage. If that goal

 

Mi. + ‘ Tu" fa)
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

PASSING BLOW

Alumni and Alumnae
en
Alumni and Alumnae.

Not long ago a letter came to the
Gazette from a graduate Dalhousian
who complains that, on the part of the
university, no real effort has been
made to keep in touch with him, nor,
so far he is able to ascertain, with any
other graduate. ‘There was considerable discussion,”’ he continues, ‘‘on this
matter when I was a student, and we
came to the conclusion that it was
most essential for the good of the
University to keep in constant touch
with all graduates.”

Undoubtedly there is something in
what this gentleman says; yet one is
constrained to ask if the root of the
whole trouble doesn’t lie in that trite
phrase ‘‘considerable discussion.”” Perhaps a little less of this futile discussion
before and after graduation, and a
little more “‘considerable” action in its
place would go a long way to remedy
the situation. Graduates like undergraduates are, after all, very apt to
forget that the most important part of
the University—the part that ought to
be most concerned about the progress
of the whole—is made up of themselves.
Too often is the University thought of
as a multiplication of four walls, a
group of administrators, and a Board
of Governors, possessed of miraculous
ability to find means and money,

In this matter should lie a thought
for everybody who approaches graduation. A Permanent Secretariat for
Alumni and Alumnae would be an
excellent thing for Dalhousie, and
ought, within a reasonable number of
years to become a sound scheme,
financially. At present the known
Alumni and Alumnae registration is
approximately thirty-six hundred. It
is steadily increasing. The difficulty
is, of course, lack of money for the
endowment of such a secretariat. It
has been the custom of each graduating
class, on leaving the University to
make a gift to the Alma Mater. Often
the financing is done in such a’ way
that contributions do not fall due until
the graduate is on his own feet. What
more appropriate gift for some graduating class than the beginning of a
fund that might in the not too distant
future, do much to knit this University
more closely together, and, by maintaining and stimulating interest, contribute greatly to her development?

 

is to be reached by disarmament conferences as they have been, it would
seem a long way in the offing.

The French have pursued a very
consistent policy on this question since
1919. Their program calls for Security.
When the nation is ‘‘secure” it will
no longer need to defend itself and
national armaments will die of dead
rot. But the French desire a very
definite brand of security. They place
not their trust in mere moral suasion,
they require force to guarantee the
peace of the world. At Geneva they
call for an “international police force’’.
When the United States says “Security
by moral suasion and public opinion’’,
France retorts ‘‘Japan.’’ And so the
opposing points of view stand—liberty
of action for the United States, binding
internationalism guaranteeing security
for France.

The bearing of this on the present
conference is very important, The
conference boils down pretty much toa
disarmament of France and her allies.
Unless France can be persuaded to
start it very little can be done. France
agrees in principal to the old type of
negotiation, but only’so far as limitation
does not threaten her security. But
if France continues to show the ideas
of her requirements which she has
evinced in the past it would appear
that this conference will not get much
further than its more modest predecessors. France poses the old
question of “which comes first the
chicken or the egg?’’ and poses it in
the terms of Security and Disarmament.
The question has long been discussed.
The present circumstances are such
that it has now come to a head and
may very well have to be settled in a
very definite manner.

 

Sorority Tea

The Sigma Theta Pi Sorority held a
very enjoyable Valentine Tea at the
home of Ruth MacAulay, the president,
on Sunday, February 14, Those present were Mrs. Maxwell and Mrs.
MacNeill, the patronesses, and the
members of the Sorority.

Let us develop an objective outlook. Let us stand before our
mirrors, and have a good laugh at the silly-looking, forked radishes

that we are.

Let us meditate on the fact that if we were annihilat
ed at this very moment, the collossal universe would still roll on its
eternal course, and scarcely a tear would be shed over our loss.
Let us realize that our petty beliefs, desires, and hopes have no

cosmic meaning.

In the bottomless abysses of space, we would be

swallowed up together with our little theories, in quicker time

than it takes to tell.
humour.

Come! let us cultivate a mellow sense of
Let us laugh merrily at ourselves, for we are of no funda
mental importance; and let us give all our eternal verities a sly

wink now and then.
ourselves.

 

th Let us always take life seriously, but never
This is the gamut of wisdom.

 

FROM OUR
CONTEMPORARIES

U. B. C. and the Government
Grant

Deserted Oasis.

The Student in Politics.

=

U.B.C. and the Government Grant.

Not content to accept philosophically
the crippling reduction by the government in the grant to the University of
British Cclumbia the students have
organized themselves in an attempt to
prevent the catastrophe which they
think will follow. The grant is about
to be reduced to $250,000 approximately two-fifths of the grant of two years
past. A Student Publicity Committee,
financed by the students who waived
most of their caution money for the
purpose has already sent out letters to
Over five thousand influential people
in the province, written articles for the
press, and issued pamphlets for distribution to acquaint everyone generally with the past record of the University and wnat such a serious reduction
would mean. The students base their
claim on the argument that education
is not a luxury for the prevince but a
necessity, and that economy in other
departments and institutions of: the
government has not been so drastic.
The Board of Governors apparently
accepted the situation, without protest
though they raised strong objections
last year. The Board however has
condescended to discuss the problem
with student representatives, who have
preceeded with vigour to make the
province ‘‘Varsity conscious.” It is
evident that the press and many citizzens have the impression that the
overburdened taxpayer pays his money
to keep up a place for the idle children
of the idle rich, and that the university

February 17th, 1932

The Weavers

 

D’you hear that weird noise in the

mountains, away

Far off where the sisters of Fate are at

lay?

What weave they there seated in front
of their looms?

"Tis wartime they’re weaving, of men
and their dooms.

Their woof has been woven of entrails of
Cain;

Their warp is made crimson with blood
of the slain,

How swiftly they weave it, with dead
men ‘tis done,

‘Weave swifter, weave sister, the night
wil! be gone!’ ;

While hour by hour they weave on,
weave on,

On, on, through the darkness, on, on,
to the dawn.

"Tis then they stop weaving; how tired
they’ve grown,

They want to be peaceful, O leave them
alone!

And while they are sleeping, is over
them plac’d

The cloth they have woven, its blood
stains effac’d.

 

Fraternity News

Phi Delta Theta held a delightful
formal party on Thursday evening,
Feb. 11 at* the Lord Nelson on
South Park St. Joe Mills and’ his
5 piece orchestra provided, as only
Joe can, ‘‘music that satisfies.” At
midnight a delicious supper was served
cabaret style; the tables, placed around
the rooms, were decorated in the
Fraternity colours. The favours for
the ladies, purchased at the Hawaiking
Shop, were little, exquisite, goatskin
purses, quaintly coloured in Japanese
motifs. Prof. and Mrs. Vince MacDonald were ideal chaperones, and
the Fraternity members extend their
sincere appreciation to them for being
such courteous and charming hosts.

 

Arthur Patillo leaves today for

is just a gathering place for the rah-rah | Montreal where he will represent the
boys. The latter idea may have a| Dalhousie Chapter of Phi Kappa Pi at
certain justification for in its short|the annual banquet and dance of the
history of eighteen years U. B. C,| McGill Chapter to be held Fri. and

seems to have copied some of the
‘‘college spirit’’ of the southern Pacific
Coast Colleges. Whatever success the
students may have in their effort to
convince an enlightened populace otf the
value of an education, will be applauded
by Canadian students generally. A
columnist in the Ubssey suggests a
Ghandi stunt: a horde of students
scantily garbed, would go to Victoria
and park on the steps of the Parliament
Building until the touching sight
moved the honorable ministers to re‘consider their designs. For goats, it
was suggested that they might be able
to get the policemen’s.

Deserted Oasis.

- The latest college publication to be
suspended is the Oasis, weekly voice of
the student body at the Ontario Agricultural .College, Guelph. Twentyfour members of the staff resigned just
to show the snobby faculty that they
were determined to uphold the freedom of the press. The reasons for
the suspension are rather vague, but
the chief one appears to be that due to
the critical attitude of the student
body toward the faculty as expressed
through the columns of the Oasis.
The action of the faculty in limiting
the boys’ and girls’ dances to one a
week made the boys and girls mad
and they literally stuck out their
tongues, The McMaster Silhouetie
points out several reasons why stiife
occurs between student publications
and the faculty in our colleges. There
may be despotism exercised by a
bigoted faculty; there may be an
incorrigible lot of students who do not
understand what is expected of university students; and there may be a
desire on the part of the editor to stir
up interest, to show the influence he
wields, or even get a job through the
publicity consequent. One’s general
impression of the present dispute is
that the faculty are taking the students
too se1iously and the students the
taculty.

The Student in Politics.

Canadian students have long been
accustomed to the reproach that they
are far and away behind tneir European
fellows in the influence they have in
political affairs. A McGill graduate
studying at the University of Berlinwrites to the McGill Daily an interesting
account of the student politics there,
Although there is no responsible student
government at the University nevertheless a heated election campaign is
conducted each year with great displays of pugnacious and ~ loquacious
abilities. Student government was abolished five years ago because of certain demands the authorities refused
to grant—such as the imposition of
restrictions on the numbers and privyleges of Jewish students. On the eve
of the election Hitler addressed a
huge meeting of students. The writer
tells of trying to listen to lectures
punctuated by cheers and shouts of
students outside—‘Germany awake! ’
and ‘‘may the Jews die like cattle!’
Blind partisanship and submergence to
mob opinion mark the student there |
as well as the man on the street.
says ‘‘one hears the praise of Passion
as a better and a nobler master than
Intelligence.” The philosopners are
quoted as Germans, not as philosophers,
while the task of biology is to prove the
necessity of racial purity for the development of a great culture; the
historian shall praise the greatness of |
his people; economics must be the
cience which disproves Marxism.
Such is the attitude of those voices

He |

Sat., Feb. 19 and 20.

 

Delta Sigma Pi has had a busy week.
Last Thursday, the physical initiation
of the pledges took place at the Chapter
House, 64 Edward St. Saturday afternoon the formal Initiation took place
at the Nova Scotian Hotel, preceding
the Annual Banquet. Their guest of
honour was Dr. A. Stanley MacKenzie.
Many alumni attended.

Phi Rho Sigma will hold-its annual

Banquet and Initiation on Feb. 19th’

at the Nova Scotian Hotel. The
following evening they will hold their
yearly Ball in the same Hotel. The
Honorary members will act as chaperones.

 

Dal. Flying Club

 

The Dalhousie Flying Club, although one of the newest organizations
on the campus, has its objects and plans
plainly discernable and every indication points to a bright future. Under
the capable leadership of the president,
Mr. Ort. Hewat and the instructor
Mr. Don Saunders, this society has
steadily grown until now it has a
strong list of members.

The Club has a lecture meeting
each Tuesday night in the Forrest
Building. These instructive talks are
given by Mr. Saunders on aerodynamics
woay of flight, airplane construction.
etc.

In March, the club will discontinue
lectures and active flying will begin at
the Halifax Municipal Airport. Already plans are being discussed for a
“Dal Day” at the airfield where students at the university will be given
flights at special rates by our e
Dalhousie pilots.
bombing and landing competitions
aerobatics and demonstrations of formation flying,

Due to the fact that only a certain
number of students can be instructed
at once, our active membership list
has been limited to fifteen. There is,
however, _an associate membership
which entitles the holder to all privileges of the club except the taking of
instruction. Any who are interested
in flying but have not heard the objects
and plans of the club should get in
touch with any of the executive who
will gladly explain them,

patti athe al

among the students who are heard
most frequently. The Daily aptly
remarks that a campus is more properly
a centre of education than a politica |
bear-garden,

 

ee ereeeeessEEeE

BASKETBALL
Y.M.C.A. Sat., Feb. 20

 

 

7 p.m. King’s vs. Wanderers
Intermediate

8 p. m. Dalhousie vs. N.S. Tech.
Senior

9 p. m. Wanderersvs. Y. M.C. A.
Senior

 

General Admission 25¢
Reserved 35c

 

 

There will also be

cm

 

 
| 1 .
th
ear i
ho
CPN as

PA ig

pee gat: &'
if” vid
pat
ica
ad ag

erage Y ote

-" we = eh ree
“ WA ca ae

“raises
hme og Nes <
NT

,

The Observer’

Beit
eer tek. ;

" 7 r
a!

A prominent Pine Hill freshman, up

| _—_—_« before the tribunal for wearing a super
a y .
7 |
eat
A) he
Zz
Ls a =
ia ex
i]
} 
; same as everybody
Bali
_ usual offerings, but in most cases a

card accompanied the. gift. Bett
_ Webster, however, received daffodils

.

cilious leer, pleaded ‘“‘not guilty” be
cause “‘I thought 2 was dressed the
else.”
Valentines Day brought forth the

Betty
and tulips from an unknown admirer
and we hear that the excitement at
the Hall was intense,

Observer saw Kay Densmore downtown one fine day recently and noticed

_ with interest that she was wearing a

pair of green bedroom slippers. We
are sure that this will prove interesting

- to our feminine readers.

_ frank opinion of the sex;
who ate two onions, is to

Delta Sigma Pi Fraternity started
something when they held part of their
recent initiation at Mary Simmonds’
home. The women are all out for the
blood of Don Archibald, who gave his
. sone Fisher,

e presented
with a quart of Listerine; and, we

blush to say it, the pair of red silk

bloomers worn by Andy Bruce in his
solo number are believed to be still in
his possession—a small reward - is
offered to any one who will return
them to their owner at the Hall.

Fran Huntley has taken to spending
the evening in the Library, where, far
from the Shirreff Hall ‘phone, she may

write to Mother in peace and quiet.

The Dunking Club mentioned in the
last issue has met with considerable
approval on the Campus. The members will assemble at 8.30 a. m., run
three times around the track, and, after
a brisk cold shower, proceed to the
store for the morning splash. This
should make the Polar Bears look to
their laurels.

Sorority Founded

(Continued from page 1)

ton, Dorothy Redmond, Joan Swee
Teg, Audrey Rysh, Eirene Walker,

Helen Williams.

The four pledges were:

Be -Jsabel Chipman, Mary Duggan, Jean

ae
re ik
St hy
‘ae

ae

"able H.C B. Bennett, the Honour
By. YE

A ae vn
i i
| , ed a ~

fy a: i Ae

f.

¥

re y
tae.
p i

rene

par

\ >
a

ie
ae”

“

i
a3

new chapter
' . Nova Scotian on

eo

,

Dr. ‘se Wilson, Prof. and Mrs.
in § Banete Dr. and Mrs. E. H. Nichols,
“18 7 and Mrs. H. L. Stewart, Mr. and

Church, Phyllis Brown. |

The next aeons event. on i
pt was the reception which the
ee a held in the lounge of the
Saturday from 4 to 6.

Among those invited were, The Right

le H. H. Covert, His Worship Mayor
itchie, Honourable J. A. Chisholm,
Justice and Mrs. Carroll, Mr. and
Mrs. Carleton Stanley, Dr. A. Stanley
flacKenzie, Dr. and Mrs. A. H. Moore,
rof. and Mrs.. Murray Macneill,
r, and Mrs. H. P. Bell, ey edi

.]. BH. MacDonald, Prof. and Mrs.
Be ewe Prot. and Mrs. W. R.

- » Maxwell, Prof. and Mrs. C. H. Mercer,

Prot. Martin, Prof. Jock Kent, Dr.
ee and Mrs. W. C. Smith, Dr..and Mrs.

~~ MacKinnon
Misses Florence Harris, Elizabeth Mur
vate.
; o
oe

.
7
nl

a

pt
_

.. A. MacKay, Dr. and Mrs. Clarence
Mciinn Mies Anna MacKeen,

ray, Margaret Dorman, Ruth Macauey Lillian Sadler, Elizabeth Saunderson, Messrs. Jerry Stewart, Douglas
Gibbon, Laurie Hart, Thomas MacDonald, Chnrles Lorway, J. E. Richardson, John Rowley; The Presidents and

| a2 representative of Delta Gamma Pi,

e * ; Sigma,

P

ah
i
- ‘J. B. Hayes, Dr. and Mrs. Kinley.

ee
| ‘ *;
! J

&

=

Pe

elta Theta, Delta Tau, Phi Rho
Phi Kappa Pi, Phi Delta
Epsilon, Phi Alpha Mu, Phi Chi, Phi

Phi

Delta Phi, and Psi Omega; Mr. and

Mrs. Spencer, St. Paul, Minn.; Rev.

i - Father Gillen, St. John; Judge and

Mr. and Mrs. Russell Ellis, Sydney;

McInerney, St. John;

‘Mrs.
Honorable and Mrs. G. H. Murphy,
Mr. Louis Gastonguay, Mr. and Mrs.

Also the parents of the new members
and pledges. '
i the evenitg a delightful banquet
was held in one of the private dining
‘rooms of the Nova Scotian. The

ae speakers who proposed and responded

i Vid,

ay iat
et

|
¢
»
+4

to the various toasts were: Mrs.
Brigden, Miss Dow, Miss Riser, Miss
Hilchie, Miss Charke, Mary Lee McCoubrey, Mary Currie, Eirene Walker
and Helen Williams. During the ban
_ ss quet _telegrams were read which had
mot ya from the various other chapters of
- Atpha Gamma Delta. After the ban
bi


uet the presents from the other 44
ap terd were opened. Among them

4
i
it
.

a ,

. y, were a cedar chest, a silver tea service
flat silver in Tudor design, vases, candle

sticks, silver cake plate, bread tray,

_ 5 silver bon bon dishes, pewter rose

‘bowl and nut dishes, Madeita linen

__ tea cloth, two silver card trays, pic
tures. A huge basket of spring flowers
a bb also received from the Sigma Theta Pie Sorority.

afternoon.

_ ‘The first forma: chapter meeting was

heid in the chapter room on Sunday
Rac This was followed by a
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. F. B.

Be se ciiowan, 111 Inglis St.

Bs: neeting was held Monday evening
%
/*
De a

Kappa Sigma till the end of the term. |.

Le

At noon on Monday, Mrs. N. Foster,

ia

_ Bloomingdale Ave., held a luncheon |

delegates and the

or the installin
oe Eta. The second

president of Alp

| was followed by a theatre party.
eshments were later served at the

apter room. |
j ‘The officers of the Alpha Eta Chapter
in the same as those of Kappa

3 A
i

f zo
et \ i
cee "0" Te i a
re . a
4 .
y

Letinmaetet isostatic es

— —— 7
f ae ,
? Let } ey te.
=f i

i
rn 7 j
ee any Ree oe
eT. of + a i ‘
* in’ nie i

a o~ rye? tay ‘a.
~ _i

Py Pike Law?

— 
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

as

A Survey of the Dalhousie tew School.

. We

The Law shout” act Dalhousie is
one of the only two professional schools
in the University in which a larger
number of students can be conveniently
and beneficiently accommodated. Not
only can more men be given room in
the school itself, but it is apparent
from an examination of the statistics
of past years, that additional graduates
in law ought not, on the return to
industrial normalcy, to have any reat
difficulty in finding profitable fields for
their labours. At present the enro]ment of law students here is sixty-five.
While the Law Schoo] continues tc
occupy a part of Forrest Halil, there it
room for seventy-five students. When
the Law Building on the Studley Campus becomes available, the school will
accommodate one hundred.

During the last ten years, Dalhousie

has graduated one.hundred -seventytwo lawyers. Of these one hundred
and two have been absorbed:into the
practice of law in the Maritime provinces and in Newfoundland—an average of ten each year. During better
times the demand from these districts
for practictioners will be increased
very likely by from fifty to one hundred
percent. Out of the remaining seventy,
thirty-six. have takem up active practice in other parts of Canad and
in the United States; thirty have
entered businesses and Trust. work;
and four have become professors.
_ Graduates of the Dalhousie Law
School are dispersed all over Canada.
As might be expected, the offices in
which they are most conspicuous are
the judicial ones. An examination of
the personnels of the more important
Courts of the Dominion reveals the
following ex-Dalhousians:

Supreme Court of Canada: Mr. Justice Newcombe; Exchequer Court of
Canada: Mr. Justice MacLean, President; Supreme Court of Nova Scotia:
Chief Justice Chisholm, Mr. Justice
Mellish, Mr. Justice Paton, Mr. Justice Carrol], Mr. Justice Graham, Mr.
Justice Ross, Mr. Justice Hall; County
Courts of Nova Scotia: Judge O’Hearn,
Judge Armstrong, Judge Grierson,
ea Martell, Judge Patterson, Judge

acDonald, Judge Crows,

Supreme Court of New Brunswick:
Mr. Justice Byrne; County Courts of
New Brunswick: Judge McLatchy,
Judge Bennett.

County Courts of Prince Edward
Island: Judge Inman.

Manitoba Court of Appeal: Mr. Justice Trueman, Mr. Justice Fullerton,
(now Chairman of the Board of Railway
Commissioners).

Kings Bench of Saskatchewan: Mc.
Justice Macdonald, Mr. Justice Bigelow, Mr. Justice Maclean; District
Courts of Saskatchewan: Judge Leahy,
Judge Buckles. ;

Supreme Court of Alberta: Mr. Justtice MacGillivray, Mr. Justice Mitchell.
District Courts of Alberta: Judge W. A.
MacDonald,

Supreme Court of British Columbia:
Chiet Justice Morrison; County Courts
of British Columbia: Judge Howay,
Judge Caffilder.

Supreme Court of Ontario: Mr. Justice
Sedgewick.

The recitation of the parts played
by these graduates in the administration of justice does not exhaust the
story of Dalhousie’s contributions to
public life. Dalhousie Law Schoo! has
given to this Dominion a Prime Minister, Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett, and to
Newfoundland a Prime Minister, Sir
Richard Squires. The Hon. E. N.
Rhodes, erstwhile premier of this
province and now. Minister of Finance
in the Federal government is a graduate; as were Sir Richard McBride and
Hon. Mr. Bowser, past premiers of
British Columbia. These are not singular instances of the elevation of
Dalhousie Law Graduates in the political sphere.

The Dalhousie Law School had
always been closely allied to public
service, and has contributed to the
administration of the business of the
Dominion, not only through her graduating members, but ako through
members of the faculty. When, in
1888, inception of the school was
brought about by the generosity of
George Munro whom we still commemorate annually on Munro Day,
Richard C. Weldon was the Dean, and
professor of Constitutional and International law; Benjamin Russell was the
Professor of Contracts; and Hon.
J. S. D. Thompson was the lecturer on
Procedure and Evidence. Benjamin
Russell later went to the Bench of the
Supreme Court of Nova Scotia; J. S. D.
Thompson assumed the portfolio of
Minister of Justice in the Federal
Cabinet, and later the Premiership of
the Dominion. Richard Weldon and

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price |

24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
_ TRAMWAY BUILDING

Benjamin Russell, when Dean and
Professor, respectively, both served
as members of parliament.

The Place left vacant in 1914 by
the retirement of Dean Weldon wes
filled by Dr. Donald Alexander MacRae. Dean MacRae raised higher yet
the institution of which the foundation
had been so soundly laid by his predecessor. As Chairman of the Legal
Education Committee of the Canadian
Bar Association he was largely responsible for the standardization of the
law courses in Canada, and for raising
the prerequisites to the study of Law to
a two years Arts Course.

When Dr. MacRae left Dalhousie
to become a member of the staff of
Osgoode Hall, John E. Read, Rhodes
Scholar and Oxonian became Dean
of Law in this University. So well did
he labour in the interests of the Dom
inion as in those of the Law School
that he was appointed, in 1929, Legal
advisor to the Department of External
Affairs of the Dominion.

His place was taken by the present
Dean, Sidney Earle Smith, M. A.,
LL.B., a former graduate and member
of the staff. Since its inception fortynine years ago, the School has established and consistently maintained
a high standard of scholarship and
service. At present the staff contains
four full time men: Dean Smith, and
Professors Horace Read, Vincent MacDonald, and John MacQuarrie, whose
work is supplemented by members of
the local Bench and Bar. The latest
contribution of the school to public
life was that of Professor Angus L.
MacDonald in 1£30 to the leadership
of the Liberal party in Nova Scotia.
This year has seen the establishment
of a new chair, the Weldon Chair, in
henor of Dean Weldon. The Weldon
chair is occupied by Dean Smith and
the Munro Chair by Professor Read.

Of ali the professions, Law is undoubtedly the most miscomprehended. | Often it is looked upon as a study of
technicalities and ‘“tricks'’’ usually
it is considered a heterogeneous mess
of rules that lack order, system and
explanation. Such is, of course, not
the case. The study of the English
Common law is the study of the social
evolution of English speaking peoples.
It is, in itself, a liberal education.

As the hospitals of today minister
to the physically ill of the community,
so have the English law courts during
the ages ministered to the socially
afflicted of a rising nation. And just
as the physician investigates the
history of the disease of his patient,
so did the judges probe into the circumstances of the litigants complaint.
The result has been a history more
comprehensive, more frank, and more
human than is afforded by any other
research than a résearch in law.

The increasing complexity of modern
business brings about as a natural
consequence, an increasing complexity
in modern law. This latter complexity
in turn, provides opportunities for
lawyers in business, where opportunities did not, a few years ago exist, and
training in law no longer leads exclusively to the desk of the solicitor,
the gown of the advocate or the
perruque of the judge, but it facilitates
greatly the pathways of commerce,
and of industry, of insurance and
even of the haut politique.

The standard of the Dalhousie Law
Schoo] is very highly and widely
recognized. Harvard Law School has
been found ready on frequent occasions
to admit the Dalhousie graduate and
to reward him with a_ scholarship.
The New York State Department. of
Education recognizes the Dalhousie

B.

No Mistake

You wil] make no mistake
in asking friends to dine,
lunch or have tea with you
at ‘*The Green’’ where
every effort is made to give
satisfactory service

The Green Lantern

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

—_—___—_-—- ——__ -___

21 Spring Garden Road

Gym Notes

Basketball Games for week,

City League.

Intermediate, Feb. 17th.
eS es Se AL
Dalhousie vs. Y. M. C, A.

Senior, Feb. 20th. 8 p.m. at ¥Y.M.C.A
Dalhousie vs, N, S. T. C.

Interfaculty League.

Sat. Feb. 20tn. St. Marys Gym.
Z2p.m. Prof's vs. Dentistry.
3p.m. Medicine vs. Law.

4 p.m. Theology vs. Engineers.

The playoff series between the three

sectional winners will be played in the
new gymnasium during the month of
March.

Interfaculty Bowling.

Interfaculty bowling team who have
not completed their sectional schedule
are requested to do so this week, as the
Sectional Winners will playoff for the
University Championship during week
of Feb. 22nd.

Dal Badminton Tournament for
1932.

The Dalhousie badminton players
wishing to enter the University Singles
Badminton Tournament for 1932 are
requested to file their entry with the
Phys. Dir. this will assure an early
start on completion of the new gymnasium.

Small Gymnasium nearing Completion.

The small gymnasium will be a great
asset to the Physical Dept. With a
splendid ventilation system, full equipment and conveniently situated on
the lower floor with the general locker
room and shower baths, where a
student may obtain a light or stren
S p. m. at fo

SSS

Can You Imagine?
A Column of Impossibilities

Cercle Francais

The Cercle Francais are holding
ee - ee ‘*“At Home” in the
Orm Of a dance at Shirreff Hall on
Murray Ryan NEVER being late] Thursday, Feb, 18 at 9 p. m. The
r lectures? affair promises tobe a great success
_ The Editors of the Gazette support-;and a large attendance is expected
ing the C. O. T. C.? All those who have attended the

Prof. Yeo never saying ‘‘er”’, ‘“‘uh,’’| regular fortnightly meetings of the
or “‘and uh” more than ten times an/ Cercle will tell you what anenjoyable
hour? 3 time may be expected. The committee

Borden and Doug forming a bache- | in charge are the Misses Dorothy
lor’s club? Vernon, Mary Duggan and Florence

The Sleepy Old Critic waking up| Woodworth, and Messrs. Hal Connor
ata Glee Club performance? Jacques Berenger and Julius Forster.
_ Prof. Stewart never telling a Scotch Everybody is cordially invited. Tickjoke? ets $1.00 per couple at the door or

at the Dal Univ. Store.
va a So ye ht nS eg pe rears AN. as gre PeeTOaee are Miss
, nna MacKeen, Prof. and Mrs, Dufau
Dal Boxing Tournament. — and Prof. E. Martin. Invited guests,
The Dalhousie Boxing Champion- | the President and Mrs. Stanley, Prof.

ships for 1932, will likely be held in the and Mrs. C. H. WV
New Gymnasium, sometime between GC. Fred Posvdon. PRG MEFs Ane Wa.

the 4th ae of March.
The Dal Intercollegiate Boxing Te: ae eee Tee eee
. eed a YEAR BOOK NOTICE.

will be selected at this tournament and

the management isadvisingall students} All proofs must be returned to
wishing to try for a position on the team | Gauvin and Gentzels before February
to commence training immediately. |20th., otherwise the photographs for
Watch the notice-board for practice-|the Year Book will be selected by the
hours! staff.

A Column of Impossibilities.

uous work-out, followed by a hot and }
cold shower, at any time of day or
evening. The gymnasium will be equipped with a permanent boxing-ring,
wrestling mat, chest weights, rowing
machines, striking-bags, swedish-stallbars, wrist-machine, fencing-mats, foils,
jackets, gloves, etc., etc., which will give
every maije student an opportunity for
his daily exercise.

of the Law School has
never been merely provincial. Students have been drawn, as well as
from the Maritimes, from all the other
parts of Canada, from Newfoundland
and frequently from the United States.
Students from Harvard, Fordham,
Queen’s and Toronto have at various
times enrolled. The facilities of a
splendid library are offered the prospective student, who has also the
opportunity of witnessing the practical
side of the Jaw in the Supreme Court,
the County Court, Probate Court and
in the Magistrates Court. Thus he
may become familiar with the procedure in trial by jury or the conduct
befure the Supreme Court en banc.
In the class room the Case or Socratic
method is most emptoyed, and in
Second Year each student is given an
opportunity to argue a case before a
moot court,

Finally, the study of law offers a
means to public service that can satisfy
the most ideallistic and high minded
student. In it his endeavour will not
be cramped, but he may make his
country and even the world the beneficiary of his labours.

The scope

© ABBOTT &
WALAER. inc.

y
' lthink ld dance

| Detter with good
| music, Wed better

get a Radio from

PHINNEY’S

Let the World’s Greatest
Dance Orchestra play
for you through
The

MARCONI
INTERNATIONAL
Short-Long Wave

RECEIVER

See them to-day at

os

See

HALIFAX, N.S.

get
NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE

OFFERS
ENGINEERING COURSES
IN
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students

with Engineering Diploma

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar ‘or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

CIGARETTES

Blended Right!

Halifax Ladies College
Conservatory of Music "°t*'s!s.Scieree:, Teacher's

Musie in all Branches. Teacher's Certificate. | Graduation Diploma.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.
MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD,B.A.. MR HARRY DEAN,

Princi pal ; Director of Conservatory

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

ean

Leather Goods

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of
all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

Portfolios,

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitte without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N.S,

pt 0 ite es, |

CHOCOLATES

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   

   
   
     
    

(Continued
“his pleasing manner, Who is Sylviaeat ‘The Sunshine of Your

 

illian Ray). Part I of the
amme ended with Minuet from
ony in E Flat (Mozart) and
Fresh Life (Sudds), duets by Howe
Jones and Warren Langille. At this
‘point the Programme called for the
gale of homemade candy but Station
Director G. S. Fraser explained that
Pe). @ined they had no milk, no sugar and
no home they could not possibly have
«homemade sonny we
After Y. M, I. announcements and

: P. H. N. S. Station identification
Part II of the program was presented.
This part, according to the printed
-rogrammes, was sponsored by, the
Advisory Committee to Carnegie Foundation. No Sense at All by the Chorus
went over big, winning applause from
such lovers of classical music as Jock
‘Kent and Clause House. Sweet Adeline by a process of elimination was
rendered in all its appealing loveliness
by Ward McLean, Art Long, Allen
“he Arts and Science room was
- distinguished by the flashing Arts &
Science sign directly in front as one
entered the main door and by its
shrine to the right on the end wall
._ This latter commemorated the dic. tatorship of Murray Macneill canonized by His Holiness the Pope Gordon- jus Fius XXX. The artist who wrou

BSS Fis ght the likeness of this sainted dictator

      
    
 
  

 
 

. Lj
F Pag
ve. ¥

2
ey

; ‘
: ¥
Wm .

+ (f

ad his reward in the receptivn ac
i corded his masterpiece. To the left of
ae _ the shrine a Japanese room, the work
ss. of M. Kitazawa added its quiet touch
to the general effect. In the right
centre a typical room of a 1982 Pine
Hiller was represented with the severe
i. atmosphere of the volumes of Voltaire
' and Plato brought into juata-position
ss with =Ballyhoo and Screen Review—
* truly a most extraordinary association
of philosophies. To the left of this
ee Beveridge and George McLean. The
F fourth shot was the crowning success
3 of this number. There followed the
ss hit of the evening with Russell McSween in the rold of the Mad Musician
interpreting Largo as Music that
“soothes the human breast.” Little
Red Hodding Ride by Mr. Mother
Goose, alias Gordon Fraser, won the
acclaim of all lovers of Bedtime Stories.
The Pine Hill Chorus then rendered
Guilty to perfection and stoed acquitt
ed on the grounds of self-defense.
Next in line and appropriate to the
imes, was a lecture by Prof. Marcuc
Dods, alias C. Nicholson, on Depression or Progression; or What Have
You and Why. The introduction by
Mussolini of Black Shirts for his
Fascists, claimed Prof. Dods, threw

 

, eee 42840 laundrymen out of work. In
) some other connection Prof. Dods
ne ---- recommended the use of his Dodite
ee es t —
ln Ae ——————qum

“GARRICK

Wed.-Thur. Feb. 17-18

    

 

 

City Basketball

League

s

(SENIOR).
WwW L TP PTS
Wanderers 4 0 2 8
Dalhousie 2 2 2 4
WM, 6. A. 1 2 3 2
N. S, Tech. 0 3 3 0
(INTERMEDIATE).
WwW % TP PIS
St. John’s 3 ‘2 3 6
Wanderers 3 2 3 6
King's 2 2 4 4
¥Y.-M.C A 2 2 4 4
Dalhousie 1 3 4 2
Senior.
Doyle, Wanderers $1
Piers, Wanderers 22
Davidson, Dal 22
Bauld, Dal 21
McRae, Dal 21
Rrdderham, Wan. 20
Hull, Tech 20
Grant, Wanderers 17
Smith, Y 14
Goudey, Y 14
Intermediate.
Chisholm, Wanderers 64
D. Payzant, St. John's Al
Nickerson, Y. M. C. A. 35
B. Stoddard, Dal 29
Tapley, King's 27
J. McDonald, St. John’s av a?
L. Alexander, Y 25
Robinson, Y 24
Lucas, Wanderers 24
G. Smith, King’s 24

 

 

Halifax Riding
Club

The Club now consists of over thirty
senior and junior members. It is
anticipated there will be no difficulty
in increasing this number to fifty which
is considered a large enough _membersnip for the coming year. The Club
has now its own stables and riding
school accomodations. An interesting
announcement will be made very
shortly regarding the matter of Riding
Horses for use by the members. —

There is a special membership of
$5.00 for students not living in the city.
More membership will urge the need
for horses immediately.

SE he aR aterm
Gastrometer as a certain means of
bringing back prosperity, curing indigestion and removing dandruff. A
parody, An Old Fashioned Home in
New Brunswick by the Chorus followed
by Oldford for President were equally
well received by a discriminating
audience. We Don't Know Why,
another parody, in itself justified the
broadcast and answered its own question. The Chorus brought Part II
to a close with Good Night Sweetheart
and after God Save the King everyone
wiped away their tears and returned to

 

 

 

 

 
 

  
  

f — the Residence. Here ice-cream and
JOAN cake were served and another hour
iy whiled away in pleasant. enjoyment.
Sy:
| CRAWFORD |—————
aS —IN— WINNERS START
i 66 ° 9 TS |
p For 60 rs the REACH Trade
| This Modern Age Mark on Sporting Goods has been
‘, a mark of perfection. No matter
ee . Fri.-Sat. Feb. 19-20 what your favorite pert may be
a ly you with equipment
: 66 . ae te € will, He ou play the game
- Bad Girl with the best that's in you.
; 1
SALLY EILERS
SALLY EILER CRAGG BROS CO.,
Limited
EVEN:NGS 20c. and 30c. Hardware and Sporting Goods
AFTERNOONS 25c. HALIFAX, N. S.
| Two Popular |
Regular EATON Values
9
Men’s Washablie
a
| Deerskin Gloves
| 2.00
\/ Pair % ”
| The ever popular glove
with men! These are
i made from selected skins,
P.X.M. sewn and strongly
stitched. Will give lots
. of wear. Natural shade |=ef 2
i : _and in sizes 7 to 10.
ti : | o ;
| Birkdale Hose for Men
‘ } | $ 1 .00
ps Fancy all wool hose in a large assortment of smart pateS | terns containing various colors. Sizes 10 to 114
ae EATON’'S Main Floor
be " EATON C2?

 
 

“MARITIME :

&

LIMITED

 

7 ty,

DALFOUSED GAZETTE

\Tigers Lose Two In

i) 11 Tea ve aa oo oe — _ —
+ Pa Fe SS fk! AN t fe, a a A ‘- i 4 2 =a mid wi ~ ie - os -—ta ee tne et ~ gpa tentang a A OA Ae ON aa
hams ent !

Hard-Fought Hoop Tilts

‘Yy’? Trims Seniors 34-24
Intermediates Trimmed

Halifax Y. M. C. A. sprang a surprise in the senior basketball league
by defeating the Dalhousie Tigers by a
score of 3. to 2. Saturday night. The
result seriously affects Dal’s standing
in the league, lcaving them only a
mathematical chance to win, as the
Wanderers strengthened their hold
on first place by winning over Tech
the same night. The Y. showed unexpected strength in downing Dal, and
although the Tigers held the score at
l--all for the first sssion, they were
unable to cope with the Y in the
final session, getting only 10 points
while the Y were scoring 22.

Both teams were over anxious when
the game started, and missed many
easy shets for the basket, but later the
game settled down to a real exhibition
of basketball, with the Y excelling in
team work and shooting. Outside of
Davidson, few ot the Dal players showed to advantage, and the team appeared away off torm. Davidson and
Hill, captain of the Reds, divided the
honors in scoring, each cbtaining 14
points. Although the Tigers fought
desperately in the second half, they
were unable to catch the Y, who took
an early lead. Handler and Davidson
turned in a fine game for the Tigers,
while Beazley and Hill showed to
advantage tor the winners. The lineup and score summary follow:

. M. C. A.—Guards, Fordham,
Hamilton (4), Taussau, Worsley; centre, Hill (14), Young; forwards, Smith
(10), Oxley, Beazley (6), Goudey (2).
Total 36.

Dalhousie—Guards, Handler (3),
Kennedy, Clarke, Dubilier; centre,
McRae; forwards, Bauld (2), Davidson
(14), Fairstein (2), O’Brien, Lorway,
Brittain (3). Total 24.

Dalhousie intermediates lost a hard
fought game to St. John’s in the city
basketball league by a score of 33 to 20
Saturday night on the Y floor, the
defeat putting them practically out of
the running for the championship.
The line-ups and scoring follow:

Dalhousie—Guards, McDougall (2),
McIntosh, Scott (4), Smofsky, Thompson (3); forwards, Stoddard, B. Stoddard (2), McDonald, McIntosh, Lorway (4), O’Brien (5), Kopf. Total 20.

St. John’s—Guards, K. McDonald
(4), Isnor, Mitchell, Croucher (2);
centre, Brundage, J. McDonald (4);
forwards, Vail, Payzant (1), D. Payzant (12), Webb (8), Marshall (2).
Total 38.

Hill and Kent refereed.

 

Gym. Opening

The latest available reports are that
the new Gymnasium will not be formally opened before the lst of March.
The two-evening program, forecast in a

former issue is being prepared. One| rising.

important change is expected. On the
opening night students will be admitted
to the building probably at 7.30, while
the geneial public will not be admitted
until a little later. During the interim
President Stanley will speak to. the
student body exclusively. This is the
first opportunity the President has had |
to speak to the whole student body as
such.

Official notices as to date and time
will be posted as soon as available on
the Notice Boards and in the Gazette.

"BASKE

 

 

News From The

Womens’ Sport
World

Basketball.

The results of the Christmas exams
must have had their desired warning
effects on our girls basketball team this
year, as they seem more inclined to
withdraw from the sportight and
devote their efforts towards academic
interests, The Dalhousie giris basketball team have piayed games with
three other teams in the City League
and have been defeated in all three by
a number of points. It is reported
th t coacn Florence Harris has entered
her more experienced players in the
intercollegiate league. However, let
us still continue to judge our girls not
by the resulting sccres but by their
fine sportsmanship.

Ice Hockey.

Our hockey team manager has lately
been spending her valuable hours in
the well renowned Infirmary of Shirreff
Hall and as a result the practise tast
Saturday was not up to standard.
Don’t let the warm weather dampen
your enthusiasm hockey players and
be on time this Saturday. I can promise you ‘‘Marg”’ will be there to cast
her shadow if she is at all able.

Miss Pat Church of New Glasgow
stayed at the Hall last weekend.

 

 

Miss Katherine Langille and Miss
Rachel Blackadar spent the weekend
at the Hall, guests of Miss Marion
Macdougall.

Mrs. Brigden and Miss Margaret
Dow of Toronto were guests at Shirrefi

Hall during the recent installation of
the Alpha Gamma Delta fraternity.

Addresses Club

(Continued from page 1)

 

 

especially the country lying around
Manchuria. Thisis one of the extreme
ly evident causes of the current SinoJapanese conflict. Mrre than that,
it is direct concrete evidence of the
gravity of the economic aspect relating
to the race problem.

In closing, Professor Thomdson indicated three possible solutions. We
might, he said, overcome the race
difficulty by either segregation, repression or cooperation. Of these, he
believed the last was the only feasible
one, both from an economic and froma
humanitarian point of view. Segregation and repression were bound to
result eventually in some sort of upThe lid cannot remain on the
boiling pot forever. Yet if we hope to
achieve anything by a policy of coOperation, we must do so by a finer
process of education than we have
hitherto followed. We must not only
conquer the ignorance, superstition

land racial prejudice of the so-called

‘inferior’ types of people; we must
eradicate these prejudiced traitsfrom
our Own minds. Only then can we
hcpe to deal at all successfully with the
vast problem in its many perplexing
phases.

TBALL..

Y.M.C. A. Saturday, Feb. 20

7 p. m.

KING’S vs WANDERERS Intermediate

8p.m. DALHOUSIE vsN. §. TECH Senior

9 p. m.

WANDERERS vs Y.M. C. A. Senior

General Admission 25c - Reserved 35c

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

  

{

Interfaculty Sport| Sport Comment

Basketball

 

_ Freshmen and Law remained in a
tie for first place in the Interfaculty
Basketball Leagve by virtve of two
wins last Saturday, the Freshmen
trimming the Theolegves 24 to ll,
and Law winning by default when
Arts failed to turn up. Musgrave for
Freshmen and Sullivan tor the Theologues were high scorers. Playoffs
in the league will start the week of
March 7 in the new Dal gymnasium.
The standing to date of the teams is as
follows:

Pts. Pts.

Freshmen 8 Arts 2

Law 8 Commerce 2

Theologues 4 Engineers 0

Profs 4 Dents. 0
Medicine 2

Bowling
Bowling results during the past

week were as follows:
Section B.

The Profs won a doubleheader from
Arts, making a clean sweet of both
matches, getting ten points while
Arts failed to win a point. The scores
were: Profs 1042, Arts 1000; Profs
1131, Arts 1059.

Section C.

Medicine defeated Theologues, 1008
to 960; Medicine 4 points, Theologues1.

Medicine won 4 points from Engineers by a total score of 973 to 948.

Engineers won 4 points, Medicine 1,
by a score of 1015 to 987.

Boxing

With the intercollegiate boxing tournament only a month away, Dal
authorities are preparing for the Dal
elimination bouts which will be held
in the new gymnasium on Friday,
March 4. A meeting of those in
charge of the tourney and others interested will be held next Saturday to
finalize arrangements for the tournament. The intercollegiate championships are being held this year at the
St. F. X. gymnnsium, Antigonish on
March 18.

Sodales
Debate
Thursday

 

Special

STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
REPAIRING

—We call for and deliver —

Cousins, Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 RobieSt. 381 Barrington St
Telephone Lorne 2323

 

 

 

Special Feature
From
Furniture Show

 

 

 

 

We have on display

Bedroom Suite of unusual beauty. This number was bro ght out specially for the January

Furniture Shows.

There were only twenty five of this design
made for the entire Dominion of Canada, and
as we were the only furniture house in Nova
Scotia that sent a buyer to the exhibition, we
secured one for Halifax.

Whether or not, you are interested in Bedroom furniture, we believe it would be of interest
to you to view this Suite.
ferent from any Suite ever shown before, and is
a distinct credit to the Canadian Furniture

Industry.

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes”
448-450 Barrington St.

Halifax,

_Rebruary 17th, 1922

Dal basketers were all but eliminated
from the running for the senior championship Saturday as the result of their
unexpected defeat by the Y, and with
only two more games to plav in the
league, have but a mathematica]
chance to tie Wanderers for first place.
And for that to happen, the Wanderers
would have to lose both their remaining
games on the schedule, to Dal and
to the Y. Next Saturday night the
Tigers go up against the Wanderers
and a loss for the Dal team would
eliminate them for this year,

The writer takes occasion to correct
a statement regarding the city intercollegiate hockey league printed last
week, The Tigers are entered only
in the city league, and are not competing for the maritime title, but all their
games which they played against St
Mary’s will count for the city champion
ship. As matters stand now, Dalhousie will tie the Saints for first place
if they succeed in winning from that
team in their game scheduled for this
week, but if they lose, the Saints will
retain the championship.

Complications which have arisen
over dates scheduled at the Forum for
this week may make it necessary to
postpone the intercollegiate hockey for
a week. Originally, St. Mary’s and
Dal were to meet Wednesday night,
but the fact that the first game of the
: Eastern League playoffs is being staged
j}at the Forum on that night between
Truro and the Wolverines renders it
necessary to put off the intercollegiate
for Wednesday. ,t is possible that the
games will be run off tomorrow night
but at time of writing intercollegiate
hockey managers were finding it difficult to engage any night this week,

 

Fraternity News

Phi Delta Phi International Legal
Fraternity held a meeting in the
Y. M. C. A, on Wednesday the 10th.
There was a large attendance of members and several important matters
were dealt with in a business session.

 

CASINO

Entire week February 22

MARIE
DRESSLER

é<é 993
Emma
The PICK of the

year’s pictures !

 

in our north window, a

It is certainly dif
Canada.

 
