  

Model League

xe Witenon: U.N. B.,
Elected President

Holds

Meet at Fredericton

 

To Lead Debaters

 

 

Bin
Sie ae

_ The fourth Maritime Intercollegiate
_ Model Assembly of the League of
Nations was held at Fredericton, March
10, 11, u,der the auspices of the University of New Brunswick. |
The Assembly opened with an ad
dress of Welcome by Dr. C. C. Jones,
Chancellor of the University. Dr.
Jones in welcoming the visiting dele
   
 
 
 
  

opinion and their beneficial influence
We on the Maritime Universities.

the unanimous choice of the assembly

Fag duties of his responsible position. » by
pie The main topic on the agenda at the
opening session was the debate on
disarmament. As one might expect
the associated powers headed by Gera
7 many were in favor of total disarma_- ment. France (represented by L.
Hawco, Mt. A.) stressed the importance of secuirty and advocated an
international police force. Mr. Hawco
made the outstanding speech of this
debate. “Great Britain and Japan
i .{Bx> A, « Payzant Dal,...C. Stewart)
favored a reduction despice Japan’s
“ activity in the far east. |
Pa At the afternoon session J. F. Cahan,
Dal, representing Canada submitted
a report on the activities of the World
Court. This report placed emphasis
on the importance of the world court
as a means of settling international
, disputes.

ir

dt ¥ many (Woods, U. N. B.) moved
for a revision of the treaty of Vet_——- sailles contending that its terms were
--—s unjust and that its provisions crippled
Gace the economic development of that
Ae pouty. =.
Beir ey tw, bene Tinieedy evening the delegates
were the guests of the university at a
oe ba nquet _ n the Lady Beavorbrook

  
  

  

sat dence. n, C.D... Richards,
Premier of New Brunswick was_ the
Chairman. Dr. MacFarlane, Chief
‘Superintendent of Education and Dr.
--Dadson, Head of the History Depart-———s ment at Acadia were the speakers.
At the close of a very successful ban
uet a vote of thanks was extended to
the University.

On Friday morning the assembly
opened with a report of the committee
on the drug traffic and the traffic in
‘women and children. This report
was introduced by W. Jones (Mt. A.)

_- representing Persia. This was followed
by the report ot the committee on
Minorities and Mandates.

P. S. To be completed next issue.

 

PS Se Se rivy ws
i . ‘
a

Room for Seniors

The former office and_ reception
~*~ room of the Alumni Secretary have
been given by President Stanley to the
Senior men for use as a common room.
This common room will be furnished
more completely by the end of the
week and everything will be done to
make it a real Senior Men’s Club room

This room in the Murray Homestead
| is admirably situated and the use to
_—s which it will be put will fulfill a long
felt need at the University. President
Stanley is to be congratulated for his
thoughtfulness.

   
 

 

F ie To Debate

E on Tuesday


 

tes, stressed the importance of the
Model Leagues as a moulder of public

  
   
   
  
   

,

}

Mr. J. E. Anderson, U. N. B., was
| for president and he ably fulfilled the]
:

 

 

—

RAYMOND McCARTHY

Med. Nominees
For Council

To carry out his duties faithfully
a representative should:—

1. Regularly attend all Council
meetings and Special Committees,

2. Carefully consider all matters
coming belore the Council.

3. Study the methods of government used by students at other universities and the results obtained.

4, Cooporate with the other representatives to make the Council a
business government.

It elected I shall strive to carry out
what I have stated above to be my
true conception of the duties of a
Council representative.

 

 

George Covert,
Med '34.

In reviewing the work that has been
accomplished by the Students’ Council
during the last few years I would like
to suggest a few modifications which
would be beneficial and for which I
will strive for if | am elected,

(1) The appointment of a paid
instructor for football, hockey and
basketball who will devote a good
part of his time to interfaculty sport.

(2) More money for interfaculty
sport.

(3) Free medical examination for
medical students.

Gordon McCurdy,
Medicine.

 

If I should be elected to the Council

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 61th, 1982.

Pine Hill Notes |\U. K. C. Notes

Some of the lighter sleepers in the
Residence report an official visit from
the fire apparatus in the wee hours
of Tuesday morning of last week.
It was, it appears, just another practical joke. It goes without saying
that the culprit is not a Pine Hiller
and so it is a mere waste of words to
suggest that he, if excitement and a big
noise is all he desires, should repair to
Barrington St., kick a tew plate glass
windows through, throw a brick at
every available cop and then sit down
on the curb and await the consequences.
It would all be so.very much more
exciting.

 

Harry Clarke is back again from
the V. G. feeling much improved
Harry Sutherland attended the recent
Model Assembly of the League of
Nations at U. N. B.. Ken Cougle has
returned from a visit to Mt. A. and
Art Long has gone to take his place. It
would be an unusual thing for Pine
Hill to be unrepresented at Sackville.

 

Gordonius XXX gave a lecture in the
dining hall recently on vocal chords
larynx and other throat apparatus,
regarding certain undesirable noises
emanating therefrom, Following former advice to the affect that disapproval of unseemly behaviour might
be expressed by rapping on the tumblers, fourteen perfectly good glasses
were shattered in the din that followed
at the conclusion ot the Popes dissertation.

Frat. News

Phi Alpha Mu.

On Wednesday evening, February
9th, Phi Alpha Mu held its final induction of new members for the year,
when pledgees Jonathan Morrison
Mare Brown and Irving Pink were
formally taken into the fraternity,
Following their induction, an informal
banquet. was given in honor of the
new members. The social program of
the evening was taken up by humorous
stories and anecdotes related by the
new members. The fraternity has
been progressing rapidly, and at present

 

 

Jack Crowe and Henry Muggah,
King’s delegates to the Model League
of Nations meet at Fredericton, returned to the college over the week-end,
reporting a most successful conference.
The King’s delegates, who represented
China at the conference, took a prominent part in the proceedings, discussion

  

To Lecture at Osgoode

   
  

Nominations in Arts
For Council Elections

 

 

  

on the Sino-Japanese conflict being a
feature of the sessions. Enroute back,
Mr. Muggah stopped off at Saint John
to attend to a pressing engagement.

 

Ata meeting of the Student Body last
week, it was decided that one more
dance will be held at King’s before
the close of the term, with the probable
date March 29. ‘‘Monk’’ Smith was
chosen head of the committee in charge
of arrangements for the dance.

A decided stand against the joining
of social fraternities by King’s students
was taken at a meeting of the Student
Body held recently, and it was decided
that the matter be brought to the

attention of the Board of Governors
for action. Professional fraternities
were not included in the résolution

. passed at the meeting.

Beginning with Saturday, March 12,
the Quiet Hours rule went into effect
at King’s, in order to allow students to
pursue their studies unhampered in
preparing for the Spring examinations.
The periods during which absolute
quiet will be enforced are from 9 to 1,
2.30 to 6.30 p. m.,and from 7.45 ad
infinitum. May they not be in vain.

Final Sudalive
Debate Thursday

The final meeting of Scdales for the
year will be held on Thursday night,
March 17th, in the Munro Room. At
this meeting officers will be elected for
the next year. A large representation
of the non-professional schools should
be present to ewsure their getting a
proper proportion of the offices to be
filled. The success of Scdales in the
future will depend in a large measure
to the extent that the students of the

 

PROF H.E, READ

 

Junior-Senior

Held at Gym.

Tuesday night, the New Gymnasium
was the scene of the Junior-Senior
| Dance—given the the Junior year in
honour of the Graduating Class of '32.
And what a dance it was!
, The surroundings, we must admit,

'

characteristic of a modern hotel—but a

happy air of gacity and a perfect floor

made it a dance to be remembered.
Joe Mills was at his best—with honours

 

were not exactly Georgian in their
style, nor was there any of that splendor

No. l

Candidates Present
Statements

   

ARTS ’35
If elected to the Students’ Counc,il
I shall do all in my power to:
(1) Bring about the organization
of an Arts and Science Society.

(2) Make Tennis a major sport at
Dalhousie. *
(38) <A re-organization of the Stu
dent Council Budget. There are organizations within the College which
are receiving very small grants in
comparison to the amount of interest
shown by the students.

(4) Have more and better ‘skating
sessions during next term.

Dan Spry.

 

John Rowley, Sophomore Class: |
think the Students’ Council of 1982-33
should endeavor to have the students
of the Studley Campus take a keener
interest in student government and
organizations. Also, since we have
the new Gymnasium more attention
should be paid to interfaculty and
inter-class sports arrangements to overcome the apparent lack of interest in
these activities.

 

ARTS ’34

Ruth Crandall. If I am elected
Junior Representative to he Students’
Council I shall be very glad to represent Class "84 to the best of my abilit
and to do all in my power to uphold
women's rights on the Campus.

Margaret Sadler. I accepted the
nomination for Junior Representative
on the Council of the Students’ because I considered that there should
be someone to represent the women
students of the University. At Dal- rh
housie only a woman can represent
women, Statistics show that in the
past approximately $3000 have been
paid annually in Council fees by the

£ i cee mk

te ©

extensive preparations are being made
to receive a representative from a
prominent international fraternity to

conclude affiliation proceedings.

Delta Tau Fraternity.

The Delta Tau Fraternity held their
Annual Dance at the Nova Scotian
Hotel on Friday evening, March the
eleventh. The guests for the evening
were Pref. and Mrs. W. P. Copp, and
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Milner. The girls
received table vanity sets with the
Fraternity crest mounted on them, as
favors. Very excellent music was
supplied by Joe Mills and his Orchestra.

~~».

Pine Hill Theologs fought their way
to the finals in the Inter-Faculty
Basketball League only to lose to the
Profs. by 3 points in an overtime game
on Thursday night. It was a hard
game to lose, especially after that
basket of Marston's.

——_——_5--———____

as a representative of the students in |

the Faculty of Medicine I shall do my
utmost to fulfill all the duties incident
to such an election. My policy as a
member would be largely determined
by the circumstances which exist at
that time and it will be motivated by
my idea of fairness.

Fred H. Wigmore.

 

If elected as one of the representatives of the Medical Society to the
Students’ Council of 1932-83, I will
endeavor to serve the student body
in general, and the Medical students
in particular, to the best of my ability,
in accordance with their wishes.

W. C. MacKenzie.

 

Commerce

Last Thursday Evening, the Ccmmerce Society, with George Thompson
in the chair, held its best meeting of the
year. Nearly fifty members assembled at the Delta Sigma Pi Fraternity
House on Edward St. Mr. E. S§S.
Morse, Manager of Pitfield, Matheson
& Co., Stock Brokers, gave a splendid
address on the Stock Market—especially in regard to investment. A
solid hour of questions and answers
testified to the popularity of his talk
Now we know how NOT to make
money.

Oh yes, by the way, the usual refreshments were. served. Ice cream
and cookies do go well just at that
time of night. Notice, members—one
more meeting this year, Watch the
bulletin boards,

| WHERE TO VOTE TO-MORROW.

Arts, Science, Engineering, Gymnasium, Main Entrance.

Meds and Dents—Munro Room.

Lawyers—Law Library.

et

NOTICE.

Annual Meeting of Sodales. Election of Officers and Junior-Freshman
Debate. Presentation of Debating D’s
and Bennett Shield Awards.

Thursday, March 17th. at 7.30 p. m.,
Munro Room.

faculties at Studley give it their sup- |
port. '
On Thursday night the Bennett
Shield Prizes and the Debating ‘‘D”’
awards will be presented. Messrs.
Douglas McIntosh, Howard Oxley,’
Julius Rosenblum and Robert Kanigsberg have each won a Debating ‘‘D”’
by their participation in Intercollegiate
debates during the year. After the
coming St. Francis Xavier-Dalhouies
Debate, Messrs. Richard Squires and
Charlie Anderson will also be entitled
to the same awards.

The debate for the evening is the
final one of the Bennett Shield series
The Juniors by a previous win over
the Seniors meet the Freshmen who
triumphed over the Sophomores. The
subject for the debate is, resolved:
“That a university training leads to
more intelligent voting on public
questions.’ The Juniors, represented
by Miss Aileen Meagher and Mr.
Ben Rogers will uphold the resolution,
while Miss Beth Atherton and Mr.
Edward Arab representing the Freshmen will take the negative.

 

SO

The following are the Candidates
for Glee Club offices:

President—Laurie
Murray, Dick Squires.

Vice-President — Glayds Jost,
Mary Duggan {

Hart, Doug.

——_++-___
GLEE CLUB.

Friday evening, Mar. 18, in
the new Gymnasium, Newman
Club Show. Two-act play
*‘Suppressed Desires,’’ one-act
play ‘‘Good Medicine’ and
short features.

 

From the President’s Speech

 

“Now, I make no apology, on this
first occasion of meeting all the students,
for talking to them of their bodies, instead of their minds.

 

pure act of faith on their part, as yet not
one penny has been found forit. It’sa
gymnasium, a building to be used by

women students and proportionately
little return is being made in the
various activities in which women
can take part,

going to the twelfth and fifteenth
dances. His crooning blues made
history.

 
  

| then took place

Nor was the evening without its
bright spots. Cam Fraser, evidencing
a desire to return to the activities of
Paleolithic man ascended the girders of
the Gymnasium and incidentally pocketeda bet. We wonder if Cam is going
to asecnd to such dizzy heights when
he starts building bridges.

Laurie Hart welcomed the Graduates
and wished them Bon Voyage. Lou
Christie very fittingly responded expressing the thanks of all the Grads for
such a splendid dance. Prof. and Mrs.
Murray MacNeill and Dr. and Mrs.
Hugh Bell, added that touch of dignity
so necessary to make a perfect evening.

Laurie, George and Evett deserve
highest congratulntions for their arrangements. We note especially the
orderly arrangement of serving supper.
May future dances maintain the high
standard set by Class '33—’twill
be hard to beat. Cheerio!

 

Engineering News

 

The Engineers recently brought to a
close, one of the most successful years
in its history, by a general meeting
held in Room 51. President Taylor
opened the meeting with a few brief
remarks. Manager Mackie of the
hockey team, then gaye a tull report
on the work and success of the team.
Election of Officers for the new year
and resulted in the
following being elected:—
Honorary President—Prot, W. P.
President—Louis Christie.
Vice-President—Bryce Kell.
Secy-Treas.—Lindsay Rood.
Executive—Douglas Bent, Bob Covert

Nominees for Students’ Council were
Ken Purtill, San Scott and Jim erguson,

Copp

Engineers Banquet, Huge Success.

Once again the Engineers’ Annual

I don’t intend to make any rash

promises, but I would like to assist in
making the Student’s Council a more
powerful body than it has been in the
past,

Harold P. Connor,

 

 

Don B. Stewart, Junior Class: Th

Students’ Council have a great deal of
responsibility in controlling student
affairs.
the students should therefore be shown
on election day.
cil is of and for the students.

More interest on the part of

The Students’ CounIt is
my hope that it be made this year a

truly representative body.

ARTS ’33

Having accepted a nomination for
the Students’ Council from Class ’33,
[ desire in a very brief and general way
to set my platform before the electorate.
If elected, I pledge myself to an

economic and non-partisan administration,
best wishes of the student body as a
whole.

ever in mind the

keeping

Laura J. Marshal
(Continued on page 4)

To Debate
on Tuesday

 

 

 

Your health is| you, for your pleasure and relaxation,

of paramount importance, whether you
learn to use your minds, or whether
you donot.” President Stanley spoke
the above in the course of his remarks at
the opening of the new gymnasium.
As the President’s address touched on

and to maintain yourselves in health,
and the Governors feel, and feel deeply,
I believe, that nothing is of greater
importance than your bodily health.
Of that I am going to speak in a moment
er so,

    
 

Banquet turned out very successful.
With Major H. W. L. Doane, Professor
Copp and Professor Theakston as
honcrary guests, and forty Engineering
students present, how could the result
be anything but successful—- President

several very important reatures of the
report from the newly inaugurated
Student Health Service at Dalhousie,
the Gazette presents it here in part.

I think all Dalhousie students, men
and women, are deeply grateful to the
Board of Governors ae this remarkable
building. It showed great courage on | ‘
their part, in this time of depression, to]!
undertake such an expense, It’s a

myself to say a few words to you about
your health, The University has been
trying to do whnt it can for your health.
This building itself is evidence of that.
The Students’ Health Service, introduced by my predecessor, and put into
Operation for the first time this year,

Taylor acted in the capacity of chairman and the toast list which he introduced was excellent. The many witty
remarks of Professors Copp and Theakston, along with the very interesting
talk from Mahor Doane, were the highlights of the banquet. Joe Mills
gave his regular, fine music at the
piano and all agreed that the banquet
was even a greater success, if pgssible,
than those of preceding years.

Of this particular occasion I avail

s further evidence. I want to tell you
(Continued on page 4°

 

   
 

a

CHARLES AN DERSON

 

 
  
 
 

 

| COMMENT

| The Week in Parliament.
» _ | The German Election.

The Week in Parliament.

The question of the difference between the domestic and export freight
rate on grains has again been raised
The domestic rate is about 41 cents per
100 pounds, while the export rate is
about 20 cents per 100 pounds. It has
been pointed out, in former years, that
the people of Vancouver can go to

 

   

vs Managing Editors:

THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
Associates:

-H; B.- CHANDLER = -==="- >

LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.

   
 
    
 
  
 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  

y

“ st = s sw

hulp ect te prema (or a gre) Hae
a] eo pe

eros DANIEL SPRY _ Shanghai and buy -Canadian barley,
Cae a BE SZABE TH MARCH | ship it back to Vancouver, getting it
io whee T. W. CRAWFORD almost as cheap as if shipped directly
5% ; . aes Sports Editor: from the Prairie provinces. An in
A ey 5 | R. D. DUCHEMIN | crease in the export rate would do the

vs e B9603 Canadian consumer little good while

News Editors: it would make exporting so much the

harder and a decrease in the domestic
rate would increase railway deficits
It does, however, look like bonusing
exporters and is not very far removed

; MARGARET DORMAN
_ -  * EDWARD B. HIGGINS
_ ELIZABETH MURRAY

+. RUTH ,CRANDALL Asst, Business a eee ee from that practice of dumping which
Neth. CHARLES CLARKE, B. A] Canadians so abhor on the part of

as me . B2486 other countries.
a _ Proof Editor: ae es Sports Reporter: The Opposition parties are unduly
AARON ZIVE, B. Se. > MURRAY LLOY:.: S measures of the Government. Like

most Opposition parties, they think
they are not having enough share in
the Government. Disregard for the

: y y 
pats Nee Et S é = oe ah

       

 

 

 

7-@-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S. constitution, undue control by the
se . : = executive organ of government and
7 7 the uselessness of a deliberative assem
bly, are all seen in the action of the
Government. It would seem that
there is justification for greater control
by the Executive in times of crises.
Delay due to lack of power might
cause uncalculated hardship. Whereas
in normal times a, more careful definition and limitation of power, would
do little harm. If, however, under
the guise of emergency measures powers
are assumed which cannot properly be
so termed, there is cause for criticism
The Government cannot afford to rid
itself of the advice and deliberations
which many of the private members

Prey adit 2 | A SUGGESTION.
oll ae
_-——s—- There is a small matter that we desire to bring to the attention
Me of. the Studley authorities as something worthy of their immediate
| —s “attention, namely, the present poor condition of the campus
around the new gymnasium. Due to the work of the contractors
who just recently left, and also to the fact that at this time of
year the earth-surface is inclined to be soft, all avenues of approach
from the west are indescribably rough and extremely muddy.
- Unless equipped for such walking as one would ordinarily expect
to find on a ploughed field in spring, one enters the territory at

  

     
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
 

one’s own risk. Hence, we wonder whether it would not be = can supply.
— sible for those in charge of the University grounds to have a number eines aig ie wate Pie A,

of planks laid down over the bad spots, so that temporary walks
_ ‘would be available for the students. To do this would neces
rahe sitate practically no expenditure, and it would certainly improve

ployment scheme to offer the Government, by which the employers, the
employees, and the government, shall
each contribute $30,000,000 per year.
It is not likely that the Government

_ the existing conditions which are, to say the least, deporable.

cee te

ay

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

intend to investigate schemes for
themselves and no government would
be likely to rob itself of the popular
approval of itself. initiating such. a
measure.

; BEAUTIFYING CANADA.

A campaign of very laudable character is about to be ingugurated during the approaching Spring season, by a special
- committee of the Canadian Horticultural Council. The central
aim of that organization, ‘s to stimulate in the public mind a
sciousness of the scenic splendor of their native land, and
same time, encourage citizens to do everything in their
nent this loveliness, by a careful cultivation of
shout the Dominion. The pamphlet cirof the project, reminds us that “Canada is
e natural charm, from the sparkling Bras d’Or Lakes
ton to those famous mountains whose feet are kissed
xy the blue waters of the Pacific. Nature has endowed it with
he mgst beautiful and the greatest variety of landscape grandeur
-—-—s to -be found anywhere in the universe. Whatever unlovely spots
_--~—s‘ there are, arise solely from the rough hand of man; and the least
pet __- -we ean do is to make these places as attractive as possible, so that
- wo they will in some measure, harmonize with the whole.”

The German Blactiin.

German republican politics has hitherto been a matter of clear-cut party lines.
The presidential campaign just: concluded: saw a considerable confusion
in party standings, if not so mutch
in the -great issue. President © von
Hindenburg was backed by a conglomeration of parties in which the
Social Democrats, the Catholic Centre,
and the moderate Right were the
principal members... The strong nationalist wing was somewhat disrupted by
the split between the Nationalists and
the National Socialists (Nazis), while
undoubtedly a good proportion of
former nationalist supporters of the
well-to-do class turned to Hinbenburg
in the interests of law and order.
The Communists were the only party
presenting an- untied and unaltered
front.

    
      
   
  
 
  
 
    
 
  
   
   
   
    
     
   
    
   
    
   

   

The essential worthiness, and importance, of this campaign
to beautify the Dominion, must be apparent to even a casual
observer. How much more important, then, it should be to
3 those of us who expect in the near future to make Canada our
permanent place of abode. It is not a question of fosterning any
spirit of narrow nationalism; it is just the sensible policy of making
| our material surroundings attractive and pleasant. For, as Plato
--——s épointed out a long time ago, the mind is subtly and powerfully
influenced ‘by its environment. Muddled, disordered surroundings conduce to slipshod methods of thinking and living; while
~~ a beautiful environment makes for a similar kind of thought
and life. If we wish to get the best out of this great land of ours,
and also the best out of ourselves, we would do well to assist in| mies by the fulfilment of obligations

every way we can, the development of its aesthetic possibilities. | | under the Treaty of Versailles, in so far
as it was economically possible to do so.
: Germany borrowed heavily from for
j THE BOREDOM OF UTOPIA. eign nations, the United States and
ie Great Britain especially, to finance

a great industrial reconstruction and
expansion. The German settled down
to pay his debts by working hard,
confident that hard work would have
that effect. But the fulfilment policy
struck a snag when world depression
paralyzed industry and the foreign
money markets failed to produce new
loans. It was then economically impossible for Germany to pay. France
remained adamant, permitting economic reductions only at the expense of
political concessions. _ The Government was forced into the most drastic
measures of financial control and
regulation, of industry. For a year
Germany has'wavered on the verge of
national bankruptcy, while the international tangle is yet to be unravelled
at Lousanne.» All this has dealt .a
telling blow to the patience of a people
supporting the policy of fulfilment.
To disgruntled .sections of German
opinion, goaded by circumstances into
an outlook of hopelessness, Hitler’s
platform of nationalism with a dash
of socialism has a very definite appeal

It was predicted early in the campaign that the real struggle would be
between the eighty-four year-old President, seekling re-election, and Herr
Hitler of the Nazis. For the seven
years of.his office Hindenburg has
stood firmly behind the ‘policy of
fulfilment’ as put into effect by Stresemann and continued by Chancellor
Bruening. That policy aimed at the
conciliation of Germany’s former ene
_ — It is interesting to notice the perennial appeal which the conception of Utopia possesses for many of those who dally with the
_ great social problems of mankind. Ever since the time of Plato
and Aristotle, down through Swift, More and Bacon, to Wells
' and Russell in our own day, the idea of a perfect state of human
Bei society has exercised a subtle fascination over the minds of certain
_ types of thinkers. They delight in imagining a world wholly
| ___- free from the subversive tendencies of contemporary civilization;
a world in which pain, poverty, wretchedness, war, disease, crime,
_ economic slavery, etc., would be completely abolished, and where
- everybody would be educated, happy and prosperous. That the
____ latter condition would necessarily follow the former, they never
___ doubt for‘a moment. Only eradicate all the existing corruptions,
_-___ they assert, and the people cannot help but be contented with their
ee, oo ee! social stability is a guarantee of permanent happiRe. nice ess. i) vai |

Rad eas! ge >

re

__ Stich/a conclusion does not appear to be based on very sound
_ psychological knowledge of human nature. To the vast majority
_ of persons (especially in the Occident) a state of existence similar to
ayed in the Republic or The New Atlantis, would un-.
y result in profound and utter boredom within a few days.
the mediaeval picture of Paradise, it would be difficult to
‘of a more uninteresting place. Were one given the choice
sternal abode, one would probably choose Hades; there, at
gis continually going on. This point seems to
the whole matter. Man’s real happiness consists
activity, either physical or mental. In the striving
be it the accumulation of money, the digging of a] is bound to lower the prestige of their
5 of. a pr oblem in astro-physics, the average leader. It was reported that Hitler
his

The.result of the election will be
gratifying to foreign opinion which
had some reason to fear a Nazi regime
Hindenburg failed to obtain a clear
majority by a small percentage of the
votes, butyhad a majority over Hitler
of nine million. Although the Nazis
polled a tremendous vote the result

  
  
   
    
  

i Ne

“—.

     

   
  
  
  
  
   

fulfil aie ae is 7 became a: candidate for the presidenc
or ee hy el ideal he ee against his own better judgment, we
intrin sic ‘worth. iheretore any social) would have preferred to protect his own
ish an immutable stability would position by running one of the lesser
worst kind of state. Humanity os Te eens - oe
Dee ete . | uppos o have been force

f HOS ee to become unhealthy infinences in the party greater tian

rae GS ae canon : msell, :

ok in), set DALMOUSIEGAZETTS

ergy i <* will accept his suggestion as they

   
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

PASSING BLOW

Glee Club and the New Gym.

SE es eee

Glee Club and the New Gym.

It has been decided, we have been
informed by the Board of Governors,
that a charge of twenty dollars will
be made for the use of the gymnasium
for each Glee Club show and a charge
of fifteen dollars for each dance. This
move has occasioned a considerable
amount of unfavourable criticism on
the part of students who condemn it
as a departure from the old policy
under which student activities such as
Glee Club performances were exempt
from payment of the operating costs
which they incurred in respect to the
gymnasium. This new burden placed
upon the resources of the Students’
Council, will in the run of a year,
run into considerable money, and wili
it is, argued, act to a large extent as a
damper upon the _ extra-curricular
activities affected.

Without discussing to what extent
these activities ‘should be subsidized
by the University we venture to put
forward a few considerations without
which an unprejudiced investigation
is impossible. In the first place, the
levy of the proposed charge upon
Glee Club is not entirely a departure
from past policy. The new gymnasium is a greatly different building
from the old and expenses are incurred
by its operation that in past years used
never to arise. In the case of the
former building, lighting and heating
expenses were defrayed by the Unversity. So will they be in the case
of the new gymnasium, but such
costs as cleaning up, shifting chairs
and electrician charges will be met
by the twenty dollars tax on the
Students’ Council.

In addition to the increase of the
operating and maintenance costs over
those incurred in respect to the old
gymnasium, there are interest charges
to be considered. It is common
knowledge that the University had not
sufficient money on hand to erect the
magnificent structure upon which this
discussion centres. But it is often
overlooked, if indeed known, that the
interest burden incumbent upon the
University authorities because;of their
ambitiousness is in’ the. vicinity of
nine thousand dollars per year. , The
drain occasioned on the limited resources of Dalhousie University. by
the annual withdrawal of this amount
from the funds need not he emphasized.
In. conclusion we repeat that we
hold no brief for,the Board of Governors. We only wish.to present to the
students a few of the arguments that
may be advanced on behalf of that
body.

The D. A. A. C. Elections.

The Annual Election Meeting of the
D. A. A, C. is scheduled for Tuesday
noon in the Munro Room. Last year
the voting was on straight Fraternity
lines and although the officers elected
were in most cases the most capable
men for their respective positions in the
University, the manner of their selec
tion was most unfortunate. When
such tactics are employed to elect
executives, the excellence of the candidates and the happiness of the choice
are merely coincidental with election;
they are not the cause of it. ~ And soon
is apt to come a time when the happiness and the excellence are absent and
only the partisanship remains. Such
practices are to be condemned in any
elections. In university elections they
are to be deplored.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
  

Figures Don’t Lie

 

In connection with the recent contorversy in the Gazette, the following
statistics may be of interest. They
refer to the faculties of Arts and Science
only. In the regular exams of 1922-23,
a total of 774 exams were written by
boys and 517 exams by girls. In the
top 10% there were 79 boys and 77
girls being in the proportion of 1 boy
to 1.46 girls.

In the regular exams of 1923-24,
boys wrote 729 exams and girls 622.
Of these 84 boys and 72 girls were in
the highest 10%, being 1.19 girls to

one boy.

During the decade of 1920 to 1929
inclusive, there graduated from Dalhousie in Arts and Science 331 boys
and 304 girls. Of these 36 boys
graduates with distinction as opposed
to 61 girls—almost 2 to 1 in favour of
the girls. 1.84 to 1 to be exact.

Furthermore it has been ascertained
that when the occasion arises, as it does,
rather more than twice as many boys
as girls are advised to discontinue
their work at the college, due to low
standing.

These estimates may be verified at
the University office.

 

—__

Badminton Clvb

At a meeting of those interested in
badminton at Dalhousie, the following
were elected to head the Dal Club:
Hon. President, Professor C. H. Mercer
President, Charles Clarke; Vice-President, Muriel Lucas; Sec-Treas., Elizabeth Saunderson; Manager, Bob Hatfield; managing committee, Barbara
Barnhill, Lillian Fraser, George Covert,
Potter Oyler,

More Questions

About I. S. S. "

_ Many readers were greatly interested

in last week’s article on I. S. S. Many
questions arose which they would like
to have answered as soon as possible
Chief among these are the following.
If the editor would be kind enough to
publish these, it would be appreciated.

1. The writer mentioned the value
of ‘‘world-wide cooperation among
university-trained people.””’ What is
this cooperation? In what ways could
Dalhousie students take part in this
cooperation? Situated as we are at
Dalhousie, cut off from other universities, such coaperation seems to be an ideal
rather than a practical thing. How
could the I, S. S. make the cooperation
actual? .

2. What students have received aid,
such as was mentioned in the article?
What Dalhousie students could receive
it and how?

3. Whatare the conferences? Who
attends them? Where are they held?
How are they paid for? And what is
their use? Is I.S. S. for the benefit of
the conferences or are the conferences
for the benefit of I. S.S.? Apart from
the obtaining of more knowledge of
other universities and conditions, what
value would the conferences have for
Dalhousians?. How often are they held?

4. Study groups: What are they?
What are they about? How are they
conducted?

5. Does I. S. S. still find work fer
students? Could it help girls as well as
boys to earn their way through college?

6. What benefit could 1.5. S.betoa
student just graduating?

Any movement which would be of
importance to the student life and which
would help undergraduates and graduating students in. any. practical way
deserves the consideration and effort
of Dalhousie. “Is 1. S, S. such a movement?

At the outset I should like to state
that I was not responsible for the suoheading in fast week’s Gazette; I had
no wish to suggest a substitute for
dancing; my intention was to enlist
the interest of all classes of students,
for I, S. S. is source of enrichment to
university life, and as such, should be
known to everybody.

|

 

     
 

FROM OUR —
CONTEMPORARIES

 
     

The Absurdity of Lectures.

  

The Absurdity of Lectures.

The most recent denunciation of the
futility of lectures comes from a distinguished Canadian educationalist, Dr.
Hamilton Fyfe, principal of Queen’s
University. Speaking at a Hart House
debate he made the rather startling
statement that the technique and the
machinery of university education in
Canada is entirely out of date. The
professorial custom of giving lectures
is merely a copy of European university system and a relic of the Middle
Ages when there was no printing. He
says, ‘‘This system is ridiculous, a
terrible waste of everybody’s time, and
perfectly absurd.” The system of
examination is in his opinion equally
absurd. The student has only to
take a certain amount ct information
into his system and reproduce it at the
proper time. The good examinee is the
one who can make the greatest display
of the slight knowledge he has gained
with a minimum of effort. This gives
the student the idea that truth is
something which somebody has said,
and which he must repeat, while in
reality truth must be found out: by
himself only by diligent search and
continuous 1eading. This is not particularly an original thought but one
that is being more and more heard as
time goes on. An occasional student
with more than usual intelligence
follows this plan and profits by it.
Certainly there does not seem to be
any reason why lectures should not
be far fewer than they are, perhaps
excepting those classes requiting labora
tory work. An outline of the course

A great many questions have been|and a suggested bibliography could

asked about the outline in last week’s
issue, which I shall try to answer now.
The first question: ‘*What.is IS. 5.
itself?. How -is itron? What ts the
governing body? How is it financed?’
(The reader can imagine how ail these
came in one breath, as if they were one
question). An answer: The original
committee, called European Student
Relief, was a part of the World’s Student:
Christian Federation. After some
years it severed its direct connection
with the W. S: C, F. - It recognizes -no
distinctions of religion, nationaiity or
race in the carrying out of its program
but works wherever there is need of it,
for the continuance and the betterment
of university life.’ When its’ tasks
increased beyond those of pure relief,
the committee changed its name to one
which would better indicate its ‘sphere
of activity: International Student
Service. It set up a self-perpetuating
governing body, called. the Assmbly
consisting of about fifteen members
These people: constitute the only real
‘“‘membership” of I. S. S. The great
body of students and others interested
in it are caJled its ‘‘Friends”’. They are
the ones who.are interested enough to
wish, through its publications, to keep
informed of the movement's activities
Where there:are enough earnest supporters in any one country, a cooperating committee is set up, which works
for its own country’s particular benefit,
and cooperates in the international projects, Suchca committee has been set
up in Canada. The financial resources
of I. S. S. are drawn trom its friends.

—_—

be given in the first lecture, and the
students then allowed to go their own
way.and present a thesis at the end of
the year instead of an examination.
After all lectures are only for indolent
students.

 

Store Campaign

We note with approval the campaign
which our noted Dal store manager,
Polar Pie Atwood, is .carrying - into
execution. On entry into his sacred
precincts one’s eye is met by an orgy

of ads (or what have you), pictures of cigarette. girls, chewing gum exhorta- 
tions, and ‘‘even your best rrient won't
tell you” posters.

See his ad in thi¢ issue—a prize
awaits some individual who—well,
read the ad.

Sen sesiteessssstsieees

There is no membership; so there can
be no fee. Voluntary contributions
are now, as they were originally, the
source of its income. Depending of
course on the financial means of the
individual contributor, the size of his
contribution varies directly as his belief
in the value and necessity of international student service.

_ Further questions will be answered
in a later issue.

I. HARRIET ROBERTS.

 

It is time to buy that new

Topcoat

A big range of styles and
colors at prices to suit every —
purse priced at------ |

$16.50 to $30.00

 

We are also showing the new spring

hats by BROCK

Shanes Mens Wear

30 Spring SHOP Garden pa.

Discount of 10% to students

 

 

 

|

 

.
Bee PS
 
 
  

eo

harlie Lorway accepted with plea> the kind invitation of the girls of
ff Hall for dinner, Sunday,
ch 14 at 1.30 p. m.
Mares he didn’t eat the spinach
ee sey Doug Gibbon, Dal’s primary punster

_-—s upon opening a bill for the Glee Club—

“Dal Gym—Gumph—Dal gyp.”’

~~ Jimmy Bell, son of a prominent.
professor, says he likes the Fraser)
oys—‘‘They’re not students, they’re
Pine Hillers.” !

_-~——s Peofessor Bennett appreciated the,
flowers that the Eng. II Class were
kind enough to send him when he was
sick. Pine Hill students certainly
have sympathetic natures. .
Andy Bruce is complaining again.'
When I go down to the Hall, I can't:
even find a place that is private, says
Bruce. The girls are just beginning)
to appreciate me and why can’t they
be alone to do it.

Some of the girls are running around
speaking toallthe fellows, They claim

yy are trying to pert some college
spirit. Others*daim they are looking

for votes we wh, tudents council
o know re

election.

Dalhousie's intermediate basketball
team playe@'Acadia at Wolfville
Saturday. ‘Ray “MacDonald enjoyed
himself with one of Bud's girls. George
alias Bud" Thompson tried to arrange
a game with’the Acadia girls. Thompson said in looking at one of the girls.
-¥ certainly would like to guard that
o I’d protect her with my life.
_ Sandy Scott liked the referee so well
that he thanked him every time he
obtained the ball. Carl Stoddard was
so inspired that he scored a few baskets
and. Bord Stoddard went around
_. shaking hands with everyone. It was
a great day for Acadia.

 

Class Meetings

CLASS 35.

   

   

_ . Qn Tuesday morning in the Arts
_ Building, Class 85 met for the purpose

of electing Student Council Represen_ tatives. Those elected are John Rawjocene Daniel Spry.

  

=, t
i y
.~ is
»

* aa CLASS’33.;
Pe ote - in 5 : a ;
Class ’83 elected representatives
_____. fer the Students Council at their last
glass - meeting which are as follows:
George Thompson and Carl Stoddard,
ensmore, Laura Marshall.

a> in

  

  

a’
+ Puy
fT +
wks
Pay:
Moc ate
oan fa ny
|

Ny 5 
  

  

 

   
 
 
   
      
    

 
  
 

ea
| Portfolios; “Peonte
| Bags and Luggage of
| all kinds and sizes.

a ray T;
’ :
7
* i 4
p i
.
: a; =
, ;

 
 

 

o

 

  

  

 

| KELLYS, LTD

| 118 GRANVILLE STREET.

™
- Sig
2
¢
. o

  

 

  
  
    
  

    

   

LOW CAB

) B.6144
r Halifax’s Only Metered

Service

Same Rates 24 Hours:

Two travel for same as one,

__. More than two, 20 cents extra.
_ Covers up to six.

YEL

    
 
    
    
   

   
   

’

|

 
   
 
   
  
    
    
    
    
     
      

 

 

 
 
    
  

 

Fraternity Pins and Class
_ Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
| desired.

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply prac
tically all the schools and col_leges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
|| gladly submittes without
| charg

L e.
||Henry Birks & Sons
i LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax, N. S.

 
  

  

  

   

  
     
   

 

  

  

P Halifax Ladies

a he Musi¢ in all Branches
es | = a or Bachelor of

EL

Say: ae Se he

  
  
   

:
at meee Oat me

 
     
     
     
   

| prepared bill for contributory unem-.

e
ie

ifax Ladies College
Conservatory of Music
Teacher's Certificate.
ese sees aa

a 4-4" a

.

  

. F hal.
al rn
are UP gy =ea * i? ee

ap \
; a i
“he

5 a®s

;
yf
t

 

a

» ia! ee ‘i ee
Oe eee ee > tm ae = em = See Sm pe ee a —
= eee es ——_—_— a ae a

awyers Hold
Mock Parliament
| eee: | Have Wom

The 1932 session ot the historic and
august Law School Mock Parliament:
was held in the Munro Room on)
Friday, March 11th. Three days before a short and bitter campaign had
resulted in a rousing Conservative
victory at the polls, 35 votes being
cast for the Tory platiorm of Rt.
Hon R,. A. Donohoe while the Finlaysonian Grits received 25. A strong
Conservative cabinet was formed during the week to prepare legislation for
a critical session, x

The Commons trooped to the Senate
chamber under the wing of Mr. Speaker
John MacQuarrie to hear the GovernorGeneral. His Excellency (Mr. C. W.
Anderson, M. L. A.) read the speech
from the throne, which expressed
satisfaction with the measures already
adopted by the Government to meet
the exigencies of the times and forecast
important legislation.

    
  
  
   
     
       
       
     
     
   
     
     
      
      
    
      
     
  
   
     
    
   
  
  
    
 
 

| Imagination of

—

an Much

Intellegence

The rather ambiguous title “Have
Women Much Intelligence?” was chosen by three of Dalhousie’s much
maligned co-eds for their indignant
reply to the Gazette’s recent editorial!
‘Do the Women Want to be Educated?’
in a fifteen-minute broadcast over.
CHNS last Friday night. There is not
a shadow of a doubt that the women
are much worked up about this, and
at times their voices approached the
hysterical. The delivery and material
of their speeches was not bad generally
and evidently they must have had the
boy friends coaching them, correcting
grammatical slips, etc. Mary Lee
McCoubrey opened the attack with
some nasty, mean statistics which we
think wasn't a bit nice of Murray to
give her. Only two women plucked
out at Christmas out of 36 students?
My, my, but of course mer don’t board
at Shirreff Hall. Why, she exclaimed,
should a woman spend $4000 on a
college course merely to get a man?
(Someone tell her). She can get one
just as well in her ewn home town.
The editor (the dog!) of the Gazette
defined education as a deep love of
knowledge and the impelling desire to
appreciate the best that has been
thought and said in the world; but that
is not all; according to her, the social
life gives one the ability to conduct
oneself with propriety and respectability. That, Mr. Editor, is the purpose
of an education. Here the speaker
called up the spirit of Dorothy Dix—
“The girls of today are the mothers of
tomorrow. College men need the college woman, the sympathetic touch of
the femaie.’’ Why do the men bother
with the women? (Mr. Editor). The
women don’t ask them to come around.
Man cannot exist without woman—
she is his ‘guiding light.’

Esther Elliot blasted thoroughly the
‘sublimely ridiculous’ notion that college is only for the male sex. . She
referred rather unsympathetically we
thought to the ‘biological function.’
Why should a woman come to college
to get a man when the student generally
cannot support a wife until five years
after graduation? (They really should
have answered: all these. questions
themselves, but you know, what women
are like).

A girl can have just as good a time
at home as at college. The average
girl, she cried, comes to college to study.
Today she looks forward to earning a
living. She seeks to attain poise, and
to be able to carry herself in the difficult mazes of society. Here Dr. Atlee
the renowned author of Are Women
‘Sheep. went down for the count. We
forget what the argument was that

The Commons chamber presented
a scene of some enthusiasm as the!
session got under way. The ranks of
private members on both sides of the
House were somewhat depleted though
in the early part of the evening there
was a comfortable Tory majority. A
special section reserved for I. C. R,
remained unoccupied throughout the
session. On the Government benches
the Prime Minister was flanked by two
stalwarts of the Party, Hon. D. G.
Grant and Hon. A. S. Pattillo. The
Liberal front benches shone with the
leader, Hon. D. D. Finlayson and
Hon. Messrs. H. Oxley and W. W.4V.
Foster.

The debate on the address in reply
occupied a good part of the evening.
Several speakers managed to work
themselves up to a pitch of enthusiasm
such that Mr. Speaker was constrained
to remind them of the proprieties of
parliamentary debates. The constant
ingress and egress of private members
kept the whips busy, and just before
the division there was considerable
activity. It appears that the long
debate had taken severe tolls of
Government members for the division
disclosed precise numerical parity as
between the parties. There was a
dramatic hush as the Governmentappointed Speaker appeared to reflect.
He cast his deciding vote against the
reply and bedlam broke loose. The
Opposition benches roared with cries
of ‘resign. A mild tornado seemed to
have struck the Government. Fortunately in all..the tumult Prime
Minister Donohoe remained calm.
On order being restored he announced
that the Government refused to resign
and -place the country in a_state of
chaos.

Hon. A. Pattillo as Minister of
Labour then introduced_an admirably,
good one. These ‘Lords of Creation’
are not nearly as important as they
thing they are. So there.

Mary Marsh did not attain the
rhetorical fervour of the first. two
speakers, but spoke in a low tone
vibrant with suppressed emotion of the
advantages of the co-ed. The woman,
she said, has more leisure at college
to indulge in the pursuit of truth and
beauty than the man. She doesn’t
have to settle down to long courses of
law and medicine. She can spend
more time on studying international
relations. Though. a woman’s place
is in the home, today she has a right
to meet a man on equal footing, and
earn her living if need be, Here she
concluded with a verse from her fav
ployment instirance,. Although the Op
| position was visibly. impressed with
|the merit of the bill they felt them
|selves bound to oppose it, and did so
through another long debate. Towards 11 the debate seemed to be
drawing towards a division. In a
brilliant parliamentary play to forestall another snap division the Government introduced a motion for. adjournment. The House divided equally and this time the Speaker voted for
the motion.

    
    
  

_— or
es

 

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

time.’”’ This was too much.

anything mean about the co-eds.

 

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

on

Hllous

CHOCOLATES

Qaveorr & WALKER, inc.

HOW the world
would have
enjouecL
JENNY LIND
radios like
hose now sold by

PHINNEY’S

Especially the wonderful
new
INTERNATIONAL
Short-Long Wave Receiver
Ask for particulars of this
fineinstrument. It is

built by MARCONI
The greatest name in

Radio
frida e
486-460 BARRINGTON ST.

“ HALIFAX, N. S.

 
   
  
         
  
        

 

   

    

   
   

 

  
  

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department
Household Science: Teacher’s
and Dietician’s Certificate.
Graduation Diploma.

Music, Dalhousie University.

MR HARRY DEAN,
sae eee

    
  
  

    

 
 
  
 

 

laid him low but it must have been a.

ourite poet, something about leaving
behind us “footsteps in the sands of
We broke
down and wept freely for some minutes and went to bed vowing that we
would never, never, never again say

—

Co-ed Aired| Arts Inferiority

 
     
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
         
      
         
     
   
       
     
       
   
     
      
   
     
   
   
   
          
       

  
    
 
 
     
 
  
 
  
       
       
   
 
  
  
   
   
     
   
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
     
    
  
  
 
   
  
    
  
   

aS

The Problem of

 

_ it is unfortunate, the lack cf enths- ”
lasm shown by Arts students towards
extra-curricular activities. Many student organizations—some, of the most
vital to the Dalhousie community—
are solely in the hands of the Professional Schools. Four Professional men
guide the pclicies of the Council of
Students, Sodales and the Gazette,
besides being most active in major
athletics. What conclusion does one
draw from the interest on the part of the
Forrest Building and the absolute
unenthusiasm on the part of Studley
Campus? This, possibly: those from
the Professional Schools are the followers or descendants of the college men
of thirty and forty years ago; the Arts
and Science men are mere pupils in a
prep. school. While the Forrest Buildings maintain the traditions born there
hfty years ago, Studley Campus is a
mere adjunct. conceived to meet today’s trend in university education,
“a glorified high-school’. The general
attitude of the Arts student towards the
true function of the Arts course justifies
this conclusion.

The Arts student is one of the most
inefficient creatures on the Campus.
That the student may read widely and
that he may develop his faculties in
serious extra- curricular activity, a
prominent member of the teaching
staff declares the Arts course to be the
least exacting in time, and maintaining
a comparatively low grading standard.
But, Arts men are either satisfied with a
bare pass-mark and a dawdling away
of their time in cards, dancing and the
talkies, or they are concerned with a
high scholastic standing and no paiticipation in student affairs.

There is inefficiency here,—a stagnation in the flow of mental and physical
development that should go on in a
university—damaging to both the students and the college.

To remedy this unhappy situation,
the present writer would suggest that
both the university authorities and the
senior members of the student body
take a more intimate and personal interest in the freshmen each year. There
is, it is true, a ‘college spirit campaign”’
bolstered on to the verdant ones for a
week early each September. Heads of
the major student organizations lecture
to a mass of awkward kids fresh from
high school, and urge that they join
very society on the campus. But, the
enthusiasm scon dies and the freshmen
ina few weeks of observation soon find
they cannot join all the ‘‘clubs” and
so compromise by not joining any.
These early September mass lectures
do not make for good feeiing and understanding. Rather, inaugurate a scheme
of systematic and persistent interest in
the new student as an individual (as,
aiter all, that is what he has paid his
fees for). and as far as possible learn
from personal chats his interests and
suggest that he choose one or two students activities, that he devote himself
to these and to his studies. (Massmethods in college education have been
dropped by many of the forward universities of the United States and Upper
Canada. It is unfortunate that the
Maritimes should be the late recipient
and retainer of American and Upper
Canadian ideas and movements, We/]4
even get out ‘‘depressions’’ two and
three years later). Individual attention will stir up individual enthusiasm
and thus set moving the mass of
disinterestedness in the large Arts and
Science body.

en
th
th

1S

di

 

Dalhousians In

New York

The annual meeting of the Dalhousie
Club of New York was held on Wednesday evening, February 24th, 1932, at
8.00 o'clock, at the Canadian Women’s
Club, 182 East 57th St., New York
City.

The following officers were elected
for 1932:

Honorary President—Dr. George D.

Stewart.

President—Dr. Luther MacKenzie.

lst. Vice-President—Winston Proctor.

2nd. Vice-President—Zillah MacDonald.

Secretary—Jean L. Ross.

Treasurer—Carl H.. Parks.

Executive Committee—Mildred Lavers

Douglas Thompson, William C.

Chipman.

 
 

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

      
     
       
        

 

   
 

21 Spring Garden Road

      
  
  

 
 
 
  

 
 
 

No Mistake

You will make no mistake
in asking friends to dine,
lunch or have tea with you
at **The Green’’ where
every effort is made to give
satisfactory service

 

  
   
  
     
    
  
 
 

 
 
  
     
 

   

The Green Lantern

 

Mild, yet satisfying

oe

old Man Depression, that will make
him see more than celestial stars—a
Te<

as hard as this next year, we'll have to
steal our bread.”’

but what about the statement of the
adder manufacturer who savs—business is going forward step by step;
or the sausage maker who oraculates
thus—‘‘the
The florist says things look rosier; the
banker has a great interest in the outcome.

Long Hop (despite Shanghai) says his
“troubles are being ironed out.”
barber pal, Bob Johnson, says ‘‘it’s
been da(m)n(e‘druff but it’s getting
better.”

hands, not laying them off.”’

 

Page Three

,
a ate
\

      

ey)

»-WINCHESTERS = “47
“ig ie

OF COURSE!

Winchester

CIGARETTES

Blended Right!
Is The Depression Over?

Here’s a good sock on the jaw for

 

Badminton —
Results

Clarke defeated Claener 15-6, 15-5.

Tae defeated Kanigsburg 15-10,
15-6.

Holland defeated Slater 15-9, 15-3.

Findlay defeated Crichton.

Covert defeated Musgrave 15-8, 15-9.

Hatfield defeated Lloy 15-5, 15-5.

il, honest-to-goodness survey of prest conditions. Thunder’s cake goes
is week to Prof. Stewart who cracked
e following: Optimist—‘‘if times are

Pessimist—'‘From whom?”

Such thoughts make us tremble,

 

steady grind will pay.’|says under consumption is on the
decrease. Madame Putawave—‘We
are entering a permanent wave of
prosperity. Yale Brodie—‘‘There is
a new note of optimism.’’ Who says
prosperity isn’t around the corner?
despite the fact we haven’t been able to
find the right corner? Or despite the
pickle manufacturer who complains of
things looking sour? When your creditor’s jump on you—when your tax
bill falls due, cling right on to life, to
find out just what the heck is coming
next.

_ Ford says his tractor business
going slowly forward; while One

Our
Dr. Johnny Budd, chiropost, says, ‘I believe in laying on the

The family butcher claims ‘‘there is
great deal at steak;’’ the Sanitarium

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
STORE

ANNOUNCES
A SALES PROMOTION CONTEST.

 

The year drawing to a close had been a most profitable one to the management of this store. The sales to
date exceed, by far, those of all last year.

We do not hesitate to state this showing is due, to
the advantage of our present location. However, we
firmly believe, that by extending our stock to include
lines we do not already carry, an equal revenue will be
enjoyed in our future quarters.

We are so convinced of this that we have decided to
offer $10 in prizes to those of our patrons who will aid
us in our future stock extention plans. Therefor, to
the person submitting the best list of suggestions we
will pay $5. The one submitting the second best list
will receive $8. Also an additional prize of $2, to be
drawn for, thereby giving all contestants an equal
chance to win.

An effort will be made te announce the winners
in the last issue of the Gazette to appear this year.

RULES

1. Each contestant shall be allowed to enter but
one list of suggestions.

2. All entries must be headed Sales Promotion,
Dalhousie University Store, and received at the store
on or before April 1st.

3. The store management will prepare a list of all
lines considered practical to stock, this list being assembled from suggestions of all contestants. Contestants
presenting lists containing the greatest number of
these shall be considered the winners in order of merit.

No limit is made as to the number of suggestions
any list may contain. All we ask is that discretion
be used as we do not intend to stock a line of household
furniture or farm machinery.

pate remealionetnaneeaseen' ting ce teem ee as ee

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
   

     

*

metre
7? 4 ;
*

  

Cubs Lose at
Wolfville

i :
> ee
5 Sa
: 771
es a s
5 > ‘
a rm
- ‘
e ;

eh)

 
 

 

e new gym
in- ok. pie 4 : * d
rls put up a very trip in four years when they journeye¢

oy ge eae to W lfville to meet the Acadia interbe pposin g et ee mediates in an exhibition game of
aoe coset - ‘basketball last week. The Acadia

The game was {¢
ided and resulted

‘team won out after five minutes o!
overtime had been played, the teams
being tied at 35-all at the end of the
‘ |regular playing session. In the over<a _ . |time Acadia ran in five points while
i 5 Dal could only find the basket once.
. | The ae and ise ec a9), €
ton Tournament for the|‘2), Thompson, B. Stoddar 5
se AE slat ere ee s in}otoddard (12), MacDonald (2), Maci gir ae. ros ey m ‘Intosh, J © epee oo (6),
Ie fartnd lav iewosted in Smofksy, Kopf. Total 37. __
sy ce ea ee ey gta reake (15), Boutilier (11),
th g dies are paired off Phinney, Woodworth. (9), Eaton (2),
‘telephone numbers have McDonald (8), Eldridge. Tutal 40.

 
 
 
  

 

    
  
 
  
 
    
   
  
  
  
     
     

10 have not arranged their
y then will be disqualified.

esday, Thursday, and Saturday basketball championship between Profs

nings 10-12. Thursday night 8.15|and Theologues, winners of their

ed beside the names for your ——_——
Interfaculty
owing hours are cpen for the
e in the West Gymna_ Saturday afternoon 2.30-5.30. | respective sections, which Profs won by
. a ae a score of 86 to 32 last week, has been
val he ie w

ce. The first round must
y Friday night, March 18th | .
Basketball
um. Every atternoon from 2.30-4.30.| The final game for the interfaculty
ae ordered replayed, as a result of the
bap cr 242 i Veg Bacleas: protest of the Theologues against the

: Beers mk playing of Carl Stoddard on the
ee nee Ne Profs’ line-up. —.
patie |, On Wednesday, March 16th, the} Theologues and Profs won their way

; ; “fir e will be played against an
old opponent, the Halifax Ladies
\thletic Club team. The last few

to the finals last week, by virtue of
the Profs’ victory over Commerce by
a score of 31 to 20, and Theologucs’
win from Law by a score of 18 to 9.
The final game which was suecesstully
disputed by Theelogues, was a 10ugh
fixture, eighteen penaities being handed

   

- practises have shown great enthusiasm,
and nigh hopes have resulted for a
good game. We certainly have Ker

 Purtill to thank, tor his unfailing
--—s advice and help. Pictures of a good
   
    
   
   
   
    
      
    

4 Cee en re out to the Pine Hiil team, and ten to
Ey eee. 1Ge hockey team are nOW ON! the Profs, but it was hard fought and
cer hs ey Gauvin's. closely contested threighout, the issue

 Miew at :
—~ The line-up for the game on Wed—. nesday is as follows: | .
‘The line-up for the game on Wed_—- -mesdayisasfollows: ©
| Be
M

being in doubt until the final whistle.
The teams and score follow: 3

Pine on “3 ebyae

: 10), Watts (3), Wagner , Mclvor,

aR ‘Edith Allen (Capt.) Jean ecsacs ay Ho McLean. Tota

ings —Marg, Sadler, Lil Fraser, | ®#
oe
| Je

—

Ph ee a, *

i Ts ie! aly
a

: a

a

Profs—Stoddard (9), Stirling (4),
Ells (14), Kent (9), Rankin. Total 36.
Charlie Tapley refereed.

—— rr

1 y, Dolly Carrol.
a Defense— ean Lindsay, Mary. Mc(Mgr.), Helena Bishop.

r
|

     
   
   
    
  
  
 
   
      
   
     
     
  

A combined Arts and Science meeting
was held in the Arts building, March
12th. A small but representative
number were present, and the election
‘of two members from Class 32 to run
for Freshman Representative took place
It will be hard for those deciding to
make a choice between Lou Christie

wi

fe call for and deliver—
Mstatne || GARRICK

i | : ‘i ay and Thur.—March 16-17

—|| GRETA GARBO
CLARK GABLE

9
‘Susan Lennox
Friday and Sat. — March 18-19

JOE E. BRO WN

‘Local Boy
‘Makes Good”’

Evenings 20c. and 30c.
Matinee 25c.

freshman representative.

  

 

 

 

 

ERS FROM THE
“se START

|| For 60 years the REACH Trade
|| Mark on Sporting Goods has been
_ |] a mark of perfection. No matter
ne | what. your favorite sport may be
_——_—sFs we can supply you with equipment
Is that: will a play the game
|| with the best that’s in you.

ee ; Limited
oe Hardware and Sporting Goods
: } HALIFAX, N. S.

     
  
    
  

——_— s
aaa) 7

 
     
  
    
  

  
  
   
 

        
    

22 it.%
t

 

 

:
a ae ef
‘

 

a a.

; aig

        
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
       
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
  
  
  
     
  
  
 
      
 

*

 

$1.50

Smart, stylish caps Ior men
in the popular 8/4 crown
style. Of snappy, swagger
tweeds in greys, fawns,
brown and _ powder blue.
Fitted with waterproof
peaks and leather sweat
bands. Sizes 5/8 to 73.

ree
Bw

, 4 eee Men’s 3atonia
_  ~Real Silk Socks
Farte:: Galonia Value, Pair 65c.

would have to look long and far before you would find
ality of men’s real silk socks at this price. They are
lly fine in a weight that gives the utmost satisfaction.
d, with top and foot of fine mercerized yarn. In
*k, navy and grey. Sizes 9} to 12.
~ | Eaton's Main Floor
» EATONIA label is used, it means the best regular
n. Watch for EATONIA tickets when in the Store!

“A o.

- ‘a4
‘ru.
LO 5
a
wis oO ,
4 4

  

ix: au

 

mint
4

a: i=

a>

og is

.
’

' — ‘
rh - y : ae
ne ee ghee ner. '
Ra Magy a

Hg i hn
ap ae . ;
a a ae
2k = 4

a

  

, 
so a

eas ai te}
Dalhousie Cubs went on their first

ARTS AND SCIENCE MEETING

and Charles Lorway for the next year’s

a >

a Ce a a a ae Le oe eel
re f ers 5 a cs = i >

nd - “| . —_ it oie
eS ee ee Se

“Candidates
~ Statements

(Continued from page 1.)

 

Kay Densmore. Due to the fact
that my class considered me worthy
and capable of representing them on
the Students’ Council I take great
pleasure in accepting the nomination,
because I should very much like to
serve them in whatever way it is possible for me to do so.

George C. Thompson, Senior Class:
Regardless of the high quality of
Council members in the past, greater
care can be taken in the selection of
nominees. This may be done in two
ways. The Students’ Council should
appoint several representative students
as a nominating committee. 2. The
executive of each Class or Society
should act as a nominating committee
for its own group. In both schemes
the nominees must be approved by
their own Class or Society?

Dalhousie’s reputation in the past
has been an enviable one and we have
reason to be proud of our college by th
sea. If Dalhousie is to continue on
the way to greater things she must
have student council members, who
will give unbiased decisions on important problems which affect the studentsasaunit. I pledge myself to use
my judgment and to give opinions
such as will be most beneficial to the
entire student body.

Carl Stoddard,
COMMERCE

 

 

 

 

A few issues before the student body
that demand the attention of the
Students’ Council:

(1) The compulsory participation
bya lll freshmen in some form of athletics.

(2) Better regulation and extension
of interfaculty competition.

(3) An explanation and justification
of the health fee.

(4) An explanation and justification
for charges by the Univeisity for the
use of the gymnasium by students’
organizations.

R. Murray Marven,

I wish to take this opportunity of
thanking the students of Commerce
for again nominating me as a candidate
in the Students’ Council elections. If
elected I will continue to present the
interests of the students with the
best of my ability.

Donald Mahon.
FRESHMEN REP.

Through the kindness of the Gazette,
1 would like to present a few views on
the position of Freshman Representative. First of all an excellent week
should be planned offering the newcomers much diversion. The chief
fault of the Freshman Class is in the
managing of their finances. Hence
I contend the Representative should
act as class treasurer as well as their
advisor.

If elected I plan to carry out the
above, and in every way try to better
the Class of '36.

R. Louis Christie,

Improvement of all Dalhousie Student Organizations! How- By developing the talent of individual
Frosh! Again how— At least one
extra-curricular activity for each and
every Freshman!

Chas. R. Lorway.
————++e— —_
Miss Peg Allen went home to New
Glasgow for the week-end.
Miss Margaret Mosher of Truro is
the guest of Miss Jean McLellan,
Sheriff Hall.

———--—-o-——

Badminton

Badminton has proved its popularity
at Dalhousie. On Saturday, March
_th., a mixed badminton club was formed and it was decided that Saturday
afternoons would be reserved for
doubles and mixed doubles. For the
last two Saturdays the courts have
been filled with enthusiastic players

On Friday night the Dalhousie Badminton Club entertained the Halifax
Badminton Club in the Dalhousie
gymnasium. Though the Halifax club
won by sixteen matches to two, the
Dalhousie playérs managed to force
thirteen of the matches to three sets
before they were finally defeated.

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

President’s
Message
(Continued from page 1)

what this service has done to date, on
this first of possible occasions, because
I think at first it was misunderstood
by some students, and it may be that
some of the students still have some
lingéring misunderstanding.

The very first examination showed
that of the students examined many
students had disease of the lungs. Most
of these fortunately were in an incipient
stage. None of these students were
aware that they had anything the matter with them. A slightly larger number had some affection, more or less
serious, of the heart, and of these only
three were in the least aware of their
condition. Nearly one hundred other
students had a more or less serious condition of the throat or respiratory passages,—conditions which are often predisposing to tuberculosis. And not
one of these numerous cases were receiving any attention, Two students had
a fairly setious condition of other
organs.

Now aside altogether from the five
or six lives that have certainly been
saved through this examination—and
I do not know how to assess the value
of one human life—the medical faculty
and, I believe, the entire body of medical
students have received a very salutary
lesson in the value of preventive medicine,

I think I ought to tell you frankly
that in my opinion the record of this
University is the matter cf tuberculosis
is appalling. The University must
take every precaution it can in this
matter, That is the reason for the
decision to usethis floor for class-room
purposes on certain mornings of the
week. Some of our class-rooms are
overcrowded. But you must ccoperate
in these precautions, for your own sakes,
and for the sake of the communitv.

Now, I make no apology, on this
first occasion of meeting all the students
for talking to them of their bodies,
instead of their minds. Your health
is of paramount importance, whether
you learn to use your minds or whether
you do not. There have been far too
many sad cases here this year, and in
the last few years, of students doing
well enough in their studies, but crashing down physically. And _ besides
caring for your own health I believe
that University men and women, ought
in the matter of public health to be asa
beacon on a hill-top to the whole com.
munity.

 

Maccabean
Society

The second last meeting of the
Maccabean Society being held with
Harold Davidson in the chair, as
President, the most important business
that came before the meeting for consideration was that relating to the
Maccabean Library Fund, and the
election of officers for the year 1982-3.
It was decided that the society continue
its work in the matter of supplying
books so as to augment the number
which now composes that section of the
MacDonald Library known as the
‘*Maccabean Section.”

Following this the election of officers
took place, with the result that the
new administration consists of—

J. L. Dubinsky, B. A., Law ’83—President.

Tobias Beeber, Science—Vice-President

Miss Mildred Morson, Arts—Secretary

A, Gaum, B. Sc., Med. ’83—Treasurer.

After more new business had been
dealt with, the meeting adjourned.

—————»+—>- ae _- ———_

CLASS 34.

On Tuesday, March 12, Class 34
held one of their last meetings for the
year in the Arts Building. Student
Council Representatives and class
officers were elected as follows:

Student Council Representatives—Hal
Connor, Don Stewart, Margaret Sadler,
Ruth Crandall. }

Class Officers—President—Hal Connor; Vice-President—Merle  Purtill;
Treasurer—Gordon Elkin; Secretary—
Glady Jost

D. A. A. C.

Hon. President—Murray MacNeill.
President—Charlie Anderson.
Vice-President—Hal Connor.
Secretary—Walter MacKenzie,
Football Manager—Whit Cameron.
Hockey Manager—Laurie Teasdale.
Track Manager—James Muir.
Basketball Manager—H. Nichols.
Boxing Manager—Doug. Murray.
Interfaculty Sport Manager—auto
matically Hal Connor as Vicepresident.

 

 

nn

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

   
   
 
 

   

Gymnasium
Notes

Interfaculty Basketball.

Protest Sustained. The final game
in the Interfaculty Series between
Theology and the Professors was played
on Friday evening under protest by
Theology. .

The Professors succeeded in winning
the final game by the score of 35 to 32
in an overtime period.

The Interfaculty Management Committee met on Saturday last and sustained the protest filed by Theology on
account of the Prof’s playing a seconc
team man.

The Committee has ordered th
game to be replayed on Tues., Mar.
ifth. in the new gymnasium at 7 p, m.

May the best team win).

Fencing.

There are more students registered ir
the Fencing Class than at any other
time in the history of Dalhousie.

This will necessitate two instruction
periods a week, Tues. 8 p. m, and Sat.
2.20 p. m.

Wrestling.

The wrestlers meet for instruction
every Tues. and Thur. 12-1 (noon).
This ancient he-man pastime is coming
into its own among the students.

Gymnastics.

Would you like to be a gymnastIf so, attend the practice every Tues.
and Thur. 12-1 or Saturday afternoon
at 3.60 p. m. The stage of the new
gymnasium makes an ideal place for
practice.

Boxing.

Dalhousie will be represented, by th
following; at the Third Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing Championships to be
helS nt Antigonish, on Fri., Mar, 18th.

112 lb. Class, E. F. Arab.

126 lb. Class, R. O. Hewat.

135 lb, Class, J. A. Glorioso.

Light-heavy, H. Magonet.

Big Sports Night at the Forum
TO-NIGHT.

Follow the crowd to the Halifax
Forum tonight and witness the Greatest
Ice Sports of the year.

Three matched speed skating races
between Elizabeth Flemming, the Maritime Speed Skating Champion and
Sybil Beatteay, of St John, N. B., the
Ex-Maritime Champion.

Several speed and obstacle races for
men and boys.

Girl's Ice Hockey game for the City
Title between the Dalhousie Co-eds
and the Halifax Ladies’ Athletic Club.

Bring your skates and enjoy the
general skating period from 9.45 to
ll p. m.

 

  

DANCE

Every evening except Saturday a section of the main
dining room is reserved for
dancing 9-11.30 p.m. You
are invited.

The Green Lantern

 

March 16th, 1982

Neen ed

|\Law Candidates

I should like to take this opportunity,
to express my thanks to the students at
Law who supported me in the recent
nomination. I am, indeed, grateful
and if elected shall attempt to maintain the high standard established
by my predecessors.

A lawyer has said, ‘‘May the best
man win.”’ If so, best wishes in advance R. T.

A. W. Cameron, Law.

To the law students I wish to express
my thanks for their nomination, and,
if elected, I shall endeavour to represent
primarily their views, while not forgetting the interests of the university
is a whole. In particular, I would

irge:—
1. More equal distribution of student funds, having regard to the

1umber of participants in each activity.
2. Greater coordination among the
sTganizations with a view of minimizing conflict of events.
3. More ‘Dal’ nights at the Forum.

R. T. Donald.

Cubs Win Over
King ’s

 

Dalhousie Cubs avenged their defeat
at the hands of King’s College in the
intermediate basketball league last
week by winning over the King’s men
in an exhibition game at the new Dal
gymnasium last Thursday by a score of
28 to 18. The game was well contested
throughout, with the Cubs having the
edge in the play. The score at the
end of the first half was 10 to 6 in
favor of Dal. Borden. Stoddard was
the individual high scorer for Dal,
making a total of 11 points, while
lapley led the King’s players with the
same count. The teams and scoring
follow: i

King’s—Guards, Dorman (1), MacCarthy; centresm Cole (2), Tapley (11)
forwards, G. Smith (4), Kent, Regan.
Total 18.

Dalhousie—A. MacDougall (8),
Mann, R. MacDonald (2), J. MacIntosh, C. Stoddard (2), B. Stoddard (11),
R. MacIntosh, Thompson (1), Kopf,
Scott (4), Smofsky. Total 28.

CASINO

Mon-Tues-W ed-Thur
March 14-15-16-17

 

 

 

 

 

“Fireman Save

My Child”
JOE E. BROWN

6 days commencing Mar 25
MAURICE CHEVALIER

in

“One Hour

With You”

 

 

 

 

 

WEDGWOOD

FOR

EASTER

We are featuring for the Easter Table, a
new design of Dinnerware by “Wedgwood”

This is a special set of 101 pieces, giving
a complete service for eight people. li consists of 67 pieces of “Wedgwood Dinnerware” and 34 pieces of Wm. Rodgers

Silverware.

_The price is $39.95 for the complete 101
pieces. You can’t buy it for cash, as we
use this deal for an Account Opener only
You pay $1.95 deposit, and the balance at
the rate of $2.00 weekly. There are no
interest or other charges to be added.

_ Better come early as we have only a limited quantity of sets for this sale.

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes”
448-450 Barrington St.

Halifax,

 
