   
     
    
     
 

NN SE EE
- oo — —T

   
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
      
  

a HON, J. A. CHISHOLM, K. C,,
Chief Justice Chisholm has had

 

2 P Graduated

a

with Class of
1886

om _._. The Honorable Joseph Andrew Chiso holm, M. A., LL. B., K. C., Chief
Justice for Nova Scotia is a graduate
of Dalhousie University, who has risen
‘to the pinnacle of success in the legal
profession in Nova Scotia.
 _ Born in 1863 in St. Andrews, Nova
Scotia, he later attended St. Francis
‘Xavier University in Antigonish.
ter a brilliant career at St. F. X. he
came to the Dalhousie Law School
Beeps whence he graduated with great]
om the time that he was admitted
ic i obae Bar in 1886 he has eee
_ played an important part in public
at My vies.

'?

oar

;

 
   
  
 
  
 
 

affairs. In 1899 he was elected President of the North British Society in
_ Halifax, which is an honour given only
to a Scotsman or the direct descendant
fone, His first public office was that
of Alderman for the City of Halifax.
_. From this post he became Mayor of
Halifax, and succeeded in guiding the
affairs of the city through the period of
_ 1909-10-11. All during this period of
his life the Chief Justice took an active
part in club life and in other organiza_ tions. He was President of the Cana_ dian Club in 1909 and on the Executive
of several other societies.
_ ~~ He ~was raised to the position of
sae ee of the Supreme Court of Nova
-_-- $ceotia in 1916 and continued to hold

 

_™

this honored office until 1931 when he
+ was appointed Chief Justice, which
position he still holds. Throughout his
__-varied career the Chief Justice, has
always taken a deep interest in public
affairs, and in welfare of the people.
_ The example of Chief Justice Chis- holm demonstrates perfectly step by
step the path to success which every
by Law Student dreams of.
3

‘
i
eas
a
i
.

a

‘
i
"

. \

Fy ;

pm

tae

‘F

ne

4 we
é

7
7 ay
+

z

a

ya} 
 

  

2
(7 ae
em

 
   
   
      
  
   
     
     
     
     
  
 
 
   
    
  
 

  

Smith Shield
Award

_ An item of much interest to Dal- housie Law students escaped unfor. tunately the pen of the scribe last
week. We refer to the success of
_ Messrs. Gerald Stewart and ‘'Red”
_ Foster in winning the coveted Smith
_ Shield Award. This triumph means
___that the successful gentlemen will have

____ their names inscribed, as the two most
_ outstanding advocates in their class,

upon the shield that hangs upon the
___ front wall of the Moot Court Room.
} hs Each year four members are chosen
____ from the second year class to compete
_ during their final year for this much
_ coveted honour, which is awarded to
_ the two who best present their arguments. We congratulate Jerry and
_ Red on their success.

™

     
  
  
  

 

ui

tial’, 3 a *
ae 8 3
J F

S he * yl
~. 4
Baar ae

      
     

  

 

 

Announced

The DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
is pleased to announce that the
prize of five dollars offered for
the best poetic selection submitted for publication in the
preceeding three issues, has
been awarded to Miss Derothy
Gray of Shirreff Hall. Miss
Gray is the authoress of the
very excellent little poem,
‘“‘Nikko”’, reproduced in the
March 2nd number of the
GAZETTE, over the name
‘Dorothy Gordon.’’ Honourable mention wa’s also made of
the poem entitled ‘‘The Dead’’
from the pen of Miss Patricia
Davison, 43 Lucknow St., City.
The competing pieces were all
of high standard, so that a final
choice was not rendered easy.
The Committee of Selection
chosen by the Editors, was composed of Professor C. L. Bennet,
Dr. F. R. Hayes, and Dean S. E.
Smith. The GAZETTE is
grateful to these gentlemen for
their willing service, and would
like to acknowledge the same

publicly.

 

Prize Winning
Poem
NIKKO.

Ten centuries of soft silence over Nara,
And Nikko the holy place.

A carved old stone Buddha sits,
Green moss bearding his face.

The sombre forest broods over Nara,
The giant cryptomeria trees
Bend in stillness over a red lacquer
bridge,
And a temple’s mysteries.

A river, blue as melted sapphires,
And a silver waterfall.
A gilded dragon holds his bell,

Waiting the old priest’s call.
DOROTHY GORDON

bers of the

 
 

re Ys he a a 4 a

a an nt a ae en

Official Stadent Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 9th, 1982.

ei
Delta Sigma Pi, both undergraduates
and alumni, was entertained by Mr.
Fletcher Smith at his home on Tower
Road last Thursday night. This was
just another of these delightfully informal parties even though the boys
wore “the old dinner jacket.” At
midnight a buffett supper was served,
but not until 2.30 did the twenty-five
couples present stop dancing to the
music of Joe Mills.

And now an announcement of interest to all Delta Sig members (and
many young ladies, too). The Annual
Ball will be held at the Lord Nelson
Hotel, with music by Joe Mills and a
six-piece orchestra.

Phi Kappa Pi held an_ informal
Houtise party at their home at 185
Coburg Road last Saturday night.
The thirty couples danced to MaclIntosh and his Band—and the delicious
supper served at midnight was all that
could be desired. The members of
Phi Kappa Pi extend their thanks to
Mr. and Mrs. Fogo for acting as
chaperones. The success of this party
has already brought forth rumours of
another to be held in the very near
future.

—
The Lieut-Governor and Mrs. Covert
entertained the active and associate
members of Phi Chi Fraternity at
Government House last Tuesday night.
George Covert welcomed the guests,
introducing them to his’ father and
mother. Seldon Crimp and his orchestra played for this delightful
formal party; and his music lent a
appy air of gaiety to Government
House. A delicious buffett supper
served late in the evening was unsurpassed in its excellence. The memFraternity extend their
Sincere thanks to the Lieut-Governor
and Mrs. Covert for their courtesy
and kindness in opening their home
to the Phi Chi Medical Fraternity. |

| cern is in the Netherlands.

Sedales, Dr. Mackay, Mr. J. F. Phalen,
-|Mr. D. Spry, Mr. W. Burrow, and
Mr. Harry Sutherland for subscrip
No. l

 

 

( Mr. R. D. C. Stewart, second year

| Law man, heads the Dalhousie delega
tion to the Model Assembly of the
League of Nations meeting tomorrow in
#redericton. Mr. Stewart is an Arts
graduate from Mt. Allison, in his
second year of Law here. He has
attended previous conferences both on
behalf of Dalhousie and Mt. Allison;
he has been identified with the movement since its inception, Three other
members are representing Dalhousie
this year. Mr. J. F. Cahan belongs to
a family well-known for its political
abilities, and is himself keenly interested in government and political science.
Fie is at present engaged in a study of
Canadian finances and is well suited
to represent Canada at the Model
Assembly. Mr. A. J. Payzant is a
treshie-soph from Acadia and represented his former college at last year’s
conference. Mr, Stewart and Mr.
Hayzant are associated in the representation of Japan. Mr. Harry Sutherland is a frequent visitor at Sodales
and has the capabilities of a good representative. Mr. Sutherland’s con
While the executive of the League at
Dalhousie had at their disposal the
representation of three more countries
financial support was limited, It had
been hoped that a woman delegate
might be included, but lack of enthusiasm, generally, in that corner of the
Campus hardly made the plan feasible.
Grateful acknowledgment is made to

tions.

The delegation is accompanied by
the King’s College representatives,
Messrs. R. D. Duchemin and J. L,
Crowe and will return to Halifax next
Saturday. Due to circumstances beyond his control, Mr. J. B. McEvoy,
(who performed briiliantly for Dalhousie at last year’s conference) is
‘unable to take part in the proceedings.
Much credit is due to Mr. McEvoy,
however, for his enthusiastic work in
the organization of the present deputation. Accommodation and entertainment is being provided in Fredericton
by the University of New Brunswick
Branch of the Model League during
the day of outside delegates.

Verse Award | Fraternity News | Assembly Meets | Pine Hill Notes

In these days of depression it is en
couraging to see ambition even in
such a small matter as growing a
moustache. Since the New Year Lcuis

Ryan has been patientiy pruning one
of the latest fashion ‘‘soup-strainers’
and now, having triumphed in the face
of much adversity, ventures to claim
membership rights in the Moustache
Club. Another good man gone fuzzywuzzy, so to speak.

 

 

An interesting incident of the night
of the At Home has just now come to
light. Father Andrews in the excitement of getting ready for the fair lady
cleaned his teeth with shaving cream.
Now his teeth are growing whiskers.
Father says that he always did suspect
this new-fangled shaving cream.

Harold McKean left for class especiallyearly the other morning with the intention of making a purchase down
town. Arrived on Barrington St. he
forgot the object of his errand. After
pacing up and down the block for ten
minutes in deep meditation he hit
upon a sclution: he repaired to the
nearest telephone and called himself up

 

Willard Picketts received a hearty
welcome on his return from a week’s
holiday in P. E. Island. What sorrow
comes of parting and what tears!

 

Sigma
Holds Dance

The Sigma Theta Pi Sorority held
their annual Dance in the Private
Dining Room of the Nova Scotian Hote!
on Friday, March the fourth. The
guests of honor were Mrs. Murray Macnetll, Mrs. Nichols and Mrs. Maxwell
and Professors Ernest Martin, Ells and
Nichols who received the guests with
Miss Ruth MacAulay, the President,
Johnnie Budd’s Orchestra excelled itself

 

provided an all-request program. | Supper was served at midnight,
Of the Alumnae Dorothy Rosier,

Al. Nelson, Helen McCoy, Peg. Sproul!
(Continued on page 4)

 

The Victory Of Mediocrity

An Outspoken Criticism of Conditions at our
' University

 

 

The question on everybody’s lips is
what has happened to Dalhousie’s
college spirit. Several have come forward in the past week to explain the
phenomenon of its disappearance but
none has given any definite reason for
its absence. Perhaps one vital reason
why there is no college spirit at Dalhousie now, no ‘‘stimmung” that will
arouse its students from lethargy is
that there has been a complete victory
of mediocrity in almost every branch
of university activity. The victory
has been certain all along the line;
everywhere we look mediocrity is in
the saddle.

Is there a morbid rebellion in this
university against individualism? Or
is it that the minds of most of us unaccustomed to advancing by leaps are
adverse to being outdistanced by some
superior few, or isitthat the ‘‘geniuses”
themselves are playing a dog-in-themanger game and are waiting to be
coaxed out of their nooks? Something
of each of these reasons has contributed
to stamp all societies of the college and
all athletic activities with the unmistakable brand of mediocrity. Even
the professors are marked, for with the
exception of a Stewart or a McKay and

few others, they have all lapsed into
the same year-in and year-out routine
existence that knows no stimulus or
occasional shake-up.

One looks back in retrospect to the
days when Ernest Howse drew packed
audiences to Sodales; when ‘Kelly’
Morton would bring tears to the eyes
of the hardest boiled and in a twinkling
wipe away the tears with bursts of
laughter that shook the old gymnasium;
when the shivering mob of students
would shriek its head off to see Ab

 

ee ~~

 

MONDAY, MARCH 14th----8.3

Smith score a touch-down or raise the
gym roof when McLeod, Langstroth
or Davidson would drop a_ basket.
The Dalhousie days of men of the
Babkin, Cameron, Gibbs, MacMechan
or Murray type are also gone—clearly
leadership has been exiled from the
university.

Regardless of what one’s opinion is
of hero-worship, yet one must admit
that there has always been a live interest
in the activities of men who have risen
above the others and have made outstanding figures of themselves in their
respective fields of endeavour. Perhaps this interest has been partly legitimate and partly sensationalist—but
whatever the case, the interest has been
live and real. Everyone flocked to
hear them or to see them in action.
Is it not the height of tragedy that today Dalhousie lacks leaders,—both
physical and intellectual “giants” who
would stand out above their fellows
and show the way to true ambition and
effort— é'

Another reason is the type of female
students found in this and sister universities. These vain, flattered, affected
residents of Shirreff Hall whose main
object in life seems to be, as Emil
Ludwig, great German historian would
say “inner schone Zahne Zeigen’’,
always to show their pretty teeth, are
not the living, throbbing women pulnating with life and work that are to be
sound in the shops, offices and factories,
Their time is too greatly taken up with
facial treatment, dress, parties, dances,
telephone calls and idle gossip to have
an opportunity to develop a university
or any kind of spirit.

CLL

eee, es

(Continued from page 4)

2. JUNIOR-SENIOR DANCE
JOE MILL’S ORCHESTRA
0 P. M.---12.30 A. M.

is

Se ee

Juniors Defeat Seniors

 

C. O. T. C. Condemned in Forensic Encounter

 

At noon, Thursday, March 3rd, the
Junior-Senior debate in the Bennett
Shield series was held in Room 3 of
the Arts Building. This innovation
of holding the debate at Studley was
introduced with the hope that a substantial number of Arts and Science
students would attend. While thus
bringing the scene of the debate nearer
to this large unit of the student body
did result in an attendance of about
thirty-five, yet it wiil be seen that the
representatives of the two classes
which were primarily interested in the
debate, were not given any great degree
of encouragement or support by their
respective classes. Perhaps the hour
chosen for the debate was an unpopular
one. It would seem that to each of the
classes at Studley this matter of having
a team enter the annual debating series
for the Bennett Shield, had become
something that must be done and got
over with, but which is not worthy of
any serious interest except on the part
of the two people who so faithfully
try to uphold the honour of their class.

The resolution under debate was,
“That the C, O. T. C. at Dalhousie
should be abolished.’’ Mr. Ben.
Rogers and Miss Aileen Meagher,
representing the Junior Class upheld
the resolution while Miss Helen Champion and Mr. Fraser Campbell opposed
it on behalf of the Seniors.

Mr. Rogers in opening the debate
pointed to what he considered, was an
anomaly, namely, the advocacy of
disarmament and the preparation for
war by such organizations as the C. O.
T. C. Military training demands obedlence without any questioning on the
part of the member of the corps. Such
blind obedience should not be encourag
need the international consciousness.
C. O. T. C. nullifies the broadening
influences and effect which a university
training should have. Canada isacting
insincerely in sponsoring such training
corps, since she signed the Kellogg
Pact. In the eyes of the general public
this military training is identified with
Dalhousie.

_ Miss Champion opposed the resolution and stressed more particularly the
benefit which the training brought to
the individual. It is the soldier who
knows best the futility of war but he
also knows that it will always continue.
The training inculcates the principles
of leadership which can be put to good
use in the tasks of civilian life. Members of the R. O. T. C. in some of the
universities of United States can be
detected from other students because
of their erect carriage and the poise
which they have developed. Life
practice developes and quickens perception. Adequate  pratiction does
not cause war. Defence is being
talked of now, more than at any time
since 1918. Canada must take the
responsibility of a nation.

_ Miss Meagher was not very much
impressed with the argument of the
benefit in discipline and erectness of
carriage that was urged by the previous
speaker. She inquired if the members
of the Dalhousie C. O. T. C. could
be detected on the campus from ail
other students. Are they the envy
of all the other students? If their
discipline is so developed, how is it
that attendance at some of their social
functions is the reward only to the
faithful attendants at drill? If discipline was so developed such a bribe
would be unnecessary. The speaker

ed in this modern world which needs| thought it would take a god to look

men who can think. The training
aggravates nationalism, whereas we

 

 

(Continued on page 4°

Srettthctacieeeensttheaettieeecenerteniieeetia ere ite ee
as

especially late-in the-evening when it |

NEW GYMNASIUM

COUPLE $2.00 - STAG $1.50

| Loss To University

 

IRWIN C. DOTY, LL. B.

Untimely Deathof
Dalhousie Law
Lecturer

Theta P. 1|Decease of Ie €. Doty is

great loss to community

Last Wednesday morning when the
funeral of the late Irwin C. Doty took
place from St. Thomas Aquinas Church
there was laid to rest one who for six
years had been closely associated with
this University. The Requiem Mass
was conducted by Rev. Father Quinan
and the Church was thronged with
members of the legal fraternity, the
bench, the Dalhousie Law School and
by friends of the deceased, including
many of his comrades in the Great War.
The casket was conveyed to Mount
Olivet Cemetery, and. burial given
with full military honours. As Constables of the Nova Scotia Police
lowered the body into the grave,
trumpeters of the R. C. R. played the
Last Post.

Irwin C, Doty was born in Hebron,
Yarmouth County. In 1916 he graduated in Arts from Acadia University, :
He enlisted in the 112th Overseas
Batallion shortly afterwards and in
1917 was transferred to the Royal Canadian Regiment. The injuries received
in October of that year that eventually
led to his untimely demise, caused him
to be invalided to England. Upon
his partial recovery he was detailed to
the Canadian Pay Office where -he
remained until the close of the war,

While in England, Mr. Doty was
married to Miss Mae O’Brien of
Ireland.

On his return to Canada, Mr. Doty
took up law at Dalhousie and graduated
from this University in 1921. Soon
after he was admitted to the Bar.

In 1925 he was appointed Assistant
Attorney General and, in 1929, Magistrate for the County of Halifax, which
office he held until his death.

Mr. Doty was a very ardent sportsman and a member of the Phi Delta
Phi Legal Fraternity. During the
past six years he had lectured in
Crimes at Dalhousie Law School.
Besides being respected as a teacher,
Mr. Doty won the close personal
friendship of all with whom he came
into contact. His lectures. were remarkable for their conciseness and
clarity. His tragic and untimely death
is felt very keenly by his many friends
in the faculty of Law and elsewhere in
the University.

Mr. Doty is survived by many
relatives who include his wife and his
father,

—_~++2—____

SORORITY NOTES.

Sigma Theta.

Mrs. Murray Macneill entertained
the Sigma Theta Pi Sorority at a very
enjoyable tea on Sunday afternoon.
The guests on honour were Mrs. Nichols
Mrs. McAulay and Mrs. Maxwell.
Mrs. McAulay and Mrs. Maxwell were
assisted at the tea-table by Ruth McAulay, Esther Elliot and Janet Macneill.

 
   

    

e - —

869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”

   
 

; wr ™ Managing Editors:
] | THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
. WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995

      
    
   
 
   
  

Bema vere) a); <5 >" Aspeolates: 7 * be " a = pi ‘ H. B. CHANDLER
eee Wo... *, DANIEL SPRY ;
Be ees sy ELIZABETH MARCH
ee ees T. W. CRAWFORD ae
ar ; RD DUCHEMIN
Beer *" "B9603

ss News Editors:

- MARGARET DORMAN
EDWARD B, HIGGINS
_ELIZABETH MURRAY

RUTH CRANDALL _ Asst. Business Manager:
; CHARLES CLARKE, B. A
B2436
Sports Reporter:

MURRAY LLOY

Proof Editor:
> AARON ZIVE, B. Sc,

  
  

7-29-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. S.

 
 
  
  
     
    
  
 
  
  

 

WINTER ON THE WANE.

  
 

zee

  

was

It has become a sort of hallowed tradition among members
the undergraduate body, to measure the waning of winter and the
approach of spring, not by the cheery appearance of the first robin,
_ but by the more forcible, because more ominous warning of the
- examination time-table. Last week the posting of this schedule
on the notice-boards caused many a person to cast a cursory glance
$5, ae the calendar, and note with a slight inward qualm that only
about six weeks of the present term remain. Those to whom the
swift, silent passage of the months never ceases to be an object of
__- wonder, find it difiicult to realize that still another college year is
_ slowly drawing to a close. Yet so itis. Already, a few of the
_ student organizations have concluded their extra-academic activity
s ‘ for the season, whilst a number are contemplating a similar move.
The practice, indeed, seems to commend itself to us all; and now
that the spring tests loom large upon the horizon, we should discard as soon as possible the minor embellishments of university

life, and devote our entire energy to some worthwhile curricular
ve

ea me _.-— - THE COUNCIL ELECTIONS.

Mok i

       
  

   
 

ote

    
 
 
  
   
      
  
 
  
        
   
   

ut.

 

- Dalhousians will very shortly be called upon again to elect
lve of their number to the Students’ Council for 1932-33.
ivery year, with hopeful regularity, the undergraduate body is
urged to consider the matter thoughtfully, and with the same relarity, the admonition is blissfully ignored. Yet, despite the
ct that all exhortation is likely to be in vain, we cannot forbear
re Bar eiterate the old, old theme in two, at least, of its aspects. In
the first place, every student should regard it as his or her duty to vote;
and in the second place, each person should attempt to do so in an
ay. intelligent manner. At the last elections, only about fifty percent
of the undergraduates registered their will at the polls. How in
the name of heaven can they expect to get first class administra| tion, if they persist in displaying such apathy? To speak thus, is
|} ____ to case no innuendoes on the present Council; it merely casts,
and is meant to cast innuendoes on the student body as a whole.
-__- ‘Moreover, even among the votes that are registered, very few are
| earefully thought out. The weather-beaten cry of “popularity
contest’”’ is, alas, too true. Members are, unfortunately, often
swept into office on the wave in their hair, rather than on the
strength of able executive ability. If the students want good
popular government, and not poor, popularity government, they
_ would do well to think before they vote.

TOLERANCE AS AN IDEAL.

ied
L

 

| ‘The habit of disparaging personal criticism seems to be deeply
antes ingrained in human nature. Very rarely does a single day pass,
| __ that we do not either indulge in it ourselves, or hear it from the
hips of others. Perhaps it constitutes half of the whole world’s
| ~—S conversation; at all events, the tendency is a remarkably wide
spread one. The reason for it is, of course, fairly evident. When
--——s- we censure our fellow-creatures, we are in most cases merely exalting
_--—s our own secret ego. It pleases us to dwell on their faults, because
by comparison the latter make our imaginary virtues shine with
In a desperate attempt to preserve our

     
   
  
     
    
  
  
    
  

Weer augmented effulgence.
ey 7 seli-esteem, we become more than willing to ascribe to the. rest
Poi e of makind all the shortcomings to which the flesh is heir, while at
____ the same time we resolutely shut our eyes to own weaknesses of
ge _ character. This insidious psychological bias together with a
Pe certain vulgar appetite for sensationalism, accounts not only for
65 oa much of the success of the modern newspaper, but also for a great
____ deal of the interest we display in the comings and goings of humanity
_ in general. |
Though far from being a practice that one would wish to
_ abolish wholly, it is extremely refreshing to become acquainted,
____ either in books or in real life, with persons whose mental stature
___has lifted them above the petty desire to cavil at the failings and
foibles of others. Such individuals are real, intellectual adults,
possessed of a broad, sympathetic outlook on life. They are
typified for example, by great souls like Goethe and Walt Whitman.
_ ‘The intense solicitude of these geniuses for their fellow-men, was
‘so _ pervading that it illumined everything they thought or did.

And the two famous sayings of the former, ‘It is men’s errors that
_ make them truly lovable,” and ‘In their failings we recognize

mankind, in their triumphs we recognize their true selves,” might
be adopted as a golden rule in these chaotic days. Similar
ments were nobly expressed by Schopenhauer, a thinker
has been shamefully misjudged by succeeding generations.

cae
oh

eae
ra

 

     

   
 
  

 

    
 
  

   
  
 
  
  
   

   

  

i

   
   
   
  
 

 
   

 

He once declared:
___ *Pardon’s the word for all! Whatever folly men commit, be their

  
   
    
  
 
 
 

gs or their vices what they may, let us exercise forbearance;
that when these faults appear in others it is our follies
ve behold, They are the short-comings of humanity
ons i whose faults, one and all, we share.
10

L be They are
tdon
n

ot lie on the surface. But they exist down there in
rnature; and should anything call them forth, they will
selves, just as we now see them in others."
uuggling along the highroad of
tude seems almost impossible
p as an ideal toward which to
we have achieved something
| Sian.

  
    
 
 

  

The Week in Parliament.

_ Miss Agnes MaePhail in being
“distressingly honest” as regards her
vote in favour of the reductio. in
salaries ofc ivil servants and members
of Parliament, raises an interesting
question. Are members of Parliament
mere delegates or should they exercise
poe judgment in votingacPhail thought the reductions ‘‘economically unsound,’ but said that
she knew her constituents wished her
to vote for them. When the constituents of the Southeast Grey elected
her, they gave approval of her attitude
on leading questions, but it is doubtful
if they considered the principle which
was at stake in this question, and
it is not likely that they wished to
deprive her altogether of the exercise
of her personal judgment. Even if
they bad euch a desire it would have
been interesting, if this ordinarily
courageous lady member had tried the
‘dangerous experiment of following
her own convictions.

A resolution introduced by Mr.
Woodsworth (Labour, Winnipeg) would
have Canada gradually tend towards a
socialistic state. Make socialism the
goal he says, and by slow but incessant
action frame legislation in that direction. Mr. Stevens and Mr, MacKenzie King will speak on the resolution
next week.

Mr. G. W. Gordon’s charges re Mr
Bennett have been discredited and
due apology has been made. Less
can be said in favour of the conduct of
a past deputy speaker of the House
and a prominent member of one of the
great parties for his groundless charges.

The former President of the Beauharnois Power Company, Mr. Sweezy,
has been speaking quite plainly to the
Senate Committee. He can see little
difference between such a contribution
as his company made and those which
other big interests make. After all
this contribution was made to the
party which it was hoped would win,
and that is the motive of most contributions. Large gifts to party treasuries are not made in general, for the
sake of furthering a principle as a
principle, but rather for the purpgse
of getting some very definite on

Japanese Policy.

Recent developments in the war
which is not a ‘“‘war’’ in the East have
succeeded in further complicating a
situation which was already overwhelmingly complex. Some minutes before
the League Assembly opened to publicly
discuss the issue there came the announcement of a truce at Shanghai

nding the negotiation of a settlement
[he Japanese promptly sought to implement the gesture by the launching
of a new offensive at Kiangwan and the
landing of 10,000 fresh troops over the
week end. In the meantime the
organization of the new Manchurian
state proceeded apace. Mr. Henry
Pu-Yi of Tientsin, one time Emperor
of China, was requested to head the
new government, an offer which he
accepted after declining twice in approved Manchu fashion. In connexion with activities in Manchuria the
U.S. S. R. took occasion to remind the
Japanese of certain restrictions on the
strategic use of the Chinese Eastern
Railway imposed by the Portsmouth
Treaty. The communication has some
significance in view of the recent massing of Russian troops at Vladivostok.

While the latest activities at Shanghai
might appear to the contrary it is possible that the Japanese may abandon the
offensive there in the near future. It
seems that at least some Tokyo authorities are becoming acutely conscious of
the condemnation of public opinion
abroad. The Assembly meeting at
Geneva will undoubtedly hear hard
words about Japanese policy, while but
lately Mr. Ambassador Debuchi dispatched from Washington his official
report that the Japanese course in China
was troubling and alienating their best
friends in the United States. The
pressure is reflected in internal politics
where the Diet objects to passing supply for the maintenance of operations.
This may presage a struggle between
the military and the more sane elements
of opinion in the country, with a consequent amelioration of policy by the
abandonment of the Shanghai offensive.
This view is supported by the turn of
events in Manchuria, so satisfactory to
the Japanese. Their venture into
Shanghai has been condemned as harebrained by many observers. It is supposed to have been in the beginning a
stunt by the independent Navy to
square with the Army success in Manchuria, and to have developed its later
proportions because of the unexpected
Chinese resistance which prevented
withdrawal without some show of success. At any rate it was poor strategy
if the Japs wished to keep in the good
graces of Western opinion, Another
view is that the proceeding was merely
a blind to cover up the successful conclusion of the preceding campaign.
Both views suggest that the time is now
over-ripe for a graceful evacuation.

Secretary Stimson, evidently wearying of State Department notes addressed to Tokyo, has dispatched one to
Senator Borah. It is of peculiar interest for the informal and direct state rent
of views impossible in a note to a foreign
government. Colonel Stimson believes that Japan has violated treaty
provisions and suggests that the violation if persisted in, may lead to a revision of nava |powers embodied in those
same treaties—food for thought for the
American delegation at Geneva. What
if anything—Senator Borah is going to
do about it remains as always a matter
for speculation. |

   

Miss }

D.|/the geographical

  
    

Skating Sessions.
Glee Club.

   

     

   
   
 

  

Skating Sessions.

During the past years skating sessions at Dalhousie have been infrequent
enough; but indications this year
point to the establishment of a new
record; for so far we have had just
one rink night. The cause of this
deplorable lackes on the part of the
Student Councilis hard to understand.
In the past, skating sessions have been
always well patronized and thoroughly
enjoyed by a large number from the
Student Body. Their practical elimination this year indicates, in the Council,
either carelessness, or a very short
sighted policy.

As we have pointed out on several
occasions during this year and last
year, Dalhousie University needs a
rink and needs it badly. A rink,
nevertheless will never be obtained
while the Student’s Council maintains
a policy of consistently minimizing
the value of ice sports. Only when the
University becomes ice-conscious will
it be possible to secure to the Students
the hockey and skating facilities that
are offered other Maritime Universities,
and these facilities will never be realized
under a policy diametrically opposed
to the fostering of the prerequisite
student attitude.

What has been said about Rink
Nights is largely applicable also to
hockey. Last year the football net
expenditure (exclusive of interfaculty
sport) was $1448.53; the hockey expenditure was only $329.68, This
year the net football expenditure will
be at least $1150.00; the hockey grant
is only. $350.00. Now, personally,
we see no justification whatever for a
yearly grant of from ten to fifteen
hundred dollars for the purpose of
demonstrating the physical powers
of about fifty students. We think it
far better for a man to slash a tennis
ball himself from here to Herring Cove
in an attempt to land it within the
court than to watch as a mere spectator
precision of Bill
Tilden’s strokes; and we think that
the expenditure of student fees ought
to be shaped on that principle And
if it’s advertising the University wants,
let the Board of Governors pay for it
not the students. But if such an
amount is to be devoted each year to
football; why only less than one-third
of that. amount to hockey? True that
Dalhousie’s hockey teams have not
during the past few years been outstanding successes. That, however, is
to be expected from the few practices
they were offorded. And, anyway,
anyone who saw $1150 worth in this
years football team or $1450 worth
in last years team is in a fair way to
win the world’s optimist championship.
Incidentally we wonder what grant
was made to tennis—the single star
in Dalhousie’s athletic crown for this
year.

But to get back to the subject, the
Council has fallen down regrettably
in this matter of Rink Nights. We
invite an explanation.

Glee Club.

At Glee Club last Tuesday night
two things detracted from the success
of an otherwise good show. First,
those in the audience who sat farther
back than the first ten rows had
great difficulty or found it impossible
to hear the actors. This difficulty
arose, evidently from the stage properties, the hangings, etc., for when
anyone had occasion to address the
audience from before the curtains,
the announcement was heard quite
clearly. This condition was, of course,
no fault of the actors or of the Glee
Club authorities, but it is a defect that
will have to be remedied before Glee
Club plays will be entirely successful.

The second detraction from the success of the play was the manner in
which it was received by alarge number,
perhaps the majority in the audience.
Judging from the inopportune applause, the audience as a whole got
more thrill from watching Doug Murray
and Ruth MacAulay (for instance)
embrace, than they got from the most
dramatic incident in the play. The
same attitude on the part of the spectators has been very evident, too, at
past Glee Club performances, and the
only conclusion that can be drawn is
that Dalhousie audiences are unable
to appreciate the attempts of the
Glee Club at such difficult interpretations. The play on Tuesday night
was good, and meritous of more considerate reception than it received, but
at the same time we are constrained to
express the opinion that if Glee Club
restricted itself to less difficult and more
simple themes, its success would be
greater. Laying aside for a moment
all question of the ability of the players,
which is undoubtedly considerable,
compare the type of play represented
by ‘‘Finesse”’ with literature and music,
pick out its counterparts in both of
those arts, and ask yourself what percentage of the student body would
choose these counterparts as sources of
recreation. Your answer will, we be-.
lieve, explain the failure of a large
part of the audience to appreciate
‘‘Finesse.”’

ccnp

Professor Jewitt discussing Miss
Hunter’s essays with her—

“Now, about your essays, Miss
Hunter, you don’t throw any cloud of
romance around your
naked—er, you know what I mean?”

“VYes—OH, YES!”

  

  

PASSING BLOW |il conreMPORARIES

 

lots—they’re | .

 

  
  

FROM OUR

  
 

Maritime Debating.

   

Chicago University turns
Modernistic.

The Tenth Olympiad.

  
   
 

Maritime Debating.

An editorial in the Argosy Weekly
(Mt. A.) has some pointed remarks
to make about the present system of

debating followed in the Maritimes
The subject of most debates comes
in for criticism, and we sympathize
with their view. A pompously poiitical subject is almost invariably chosen, which requires weeks of research
into dusty tomes and long hours of
laborious coaching. It may be true
that students are becoming more politically minded but it does not foliow
that they wish -to listen to reams of
oratory on a topic that they can find
more interestingly and more concisely
put in a magazine article, Often too,
in these -academic discussions the
debate is spoiled for the audience by
varying interpretations of the resolution by the participants and the arguing is entirely at cross purposes, Fora
debater to find a loophole for a point of
difference in interpretation is supposed
to be a sign of cleverness, but for the
benefit of the audience the wording of
the debate should be agreed upon before
the event that they may meet on a
common ground. Probably the audience would not be so much bored by a
political subject if it were not taken so
deadly. serious and more of a light
bantering humour indulged in such
as we commonly observe in British
debaters. After all the sanest way to
treat things political is to laugh at
them. This would undoubtedly make
for a, more appreciative audience and
a larger attendance than is usually
the case. And in spite of the solemn
and serious manner of our debaters
one feels that sincerity is lacking and
that spontaneity which goes to the
making of a well-received debate.

Chicago University turns Modernistic. =
The old principles of compulsion and

system have been cast off by the
authorities of the University of Chicago, and in their place are instituted
modern theories of liberty to the student
as a means of further self realization
and expression. The student does not
have to attend lectures or write examinations, and is treated as an adult
who is there to learn. ‘Conferences’
take the place of the former lectures,
a sort of informal discussion between
student and instructor, at which the
instructor acts as a presiding officer.
The instructor answers only those
questions which he cannot induce. the
students to answer for themselves.
Special conferences are arranged for
students weak in a certain subject.
The University is.-divided into ‘a
Junior and Senior College, a division
corresponding to the break between
Sophomore and Junior years, but if the
student thinks he is able to pass from
the lower to the higher college he may
take a ‘comprehensive examination’
which allows him to qualify at the
end of the first quarter. The system

—_—

tradition present in our educational|rink has been planned for the accom
March 9th, 1982

| Toll of the Sea

 

Black against the Eastern night

In bald relief I see

A lone black hull by the moon's dim
shine

In the dreaming China Sea.

Fishing brig or pirate ship

Or dauntless man-o’-war?
Gems and coins or sterile bones
Upon the cabin floor?

Fishermen of muscled brawn?
Or uniformed array?
Galley-slaves in shackled sweat?
Or brigands- Who shall say?

Wherever once it may have sailed

Dashing, bold and tree,

It lies there now, a lone black hull

In the dreaming China Sea,
Be Po aR:

 

Alumnae Item

Last Wednesday the executive of the
Dalhousie Alumnae Association met
at the home of Miss Eileen Burns on
South Park Street. The president,
Mrs. J. B. Hayes, was in the chair.
Students here, as in other parts of
Canada, are feeling the results of the
depression and increasingly heavy demands are being made upon the Loan
Fund of the Association—a fund of
which the purpose is to aid deserving
undergraduates for the purpose of
raising money it was decided to hold
a bridge party some time in April,
The Committee in charge are Miss
Burns and Mrs. Wilson Smith.

 

has been instituted for two months and
no definite results appear yet. But
the authorities state that the students
are taking the opportunity offered, and
the Dean of Arts reports fewer practiccal and administrative difficulties than
they had anticipated,

The Tenth Oiympiad. .

The Tenth Olympiad and the Al
mighty Dollar are themes for complaint in the Varsiry and the GVueen’s
Journal, Thirty dollars a seat for
witnessing the fancy skating championship at Lake Placid, radio and
movie Corporations practically controlling the sports, the world’s classic
amateur hockey struggle played indoors to reap profits after an ovitdoor

modation of the masses—these and
many other taints of professionalism
have clouded the early stages of the
1932 Olympiad. The first recorded
Olympiad was held in Greece two
thousand seven hundred and eight
years ago. Every fourth year till
392 A. D. the athletes met at Olympia.
The contestants were rigidly trained
and required to be exceptionally fine
mentally, morally, and physically.
The games were finally suppressed on
the grounds that they had become a
nuisance. The high Grecian standards
of honour and sportsmanship decayed
and the Games became polluted with
professionalism. Participation in athletics became a trade, the trade became a nuisance, and the Olympiad
was lost to the world till revived in
1896. So far the competitors and the
competitions have been above reproach, but it seems as though money
grasping concerns working through
the officials have tinted the Olympic
Games with that curse of human welfare, the greed for gold.

 

 

 

Four Piece

Sport Suits

Of Tweed or Fliannel

Fawn and Brown.

$3.Q00

Beautifully tailored garments in a

wide range of shades in grey..,.

These suits

come with half or full lining of
silk, and are hand tailored.......

throughout.

Priced without Plus Fours

$25.00

Shanes Mens Wear

ae

50 spring SHOP Garden ra.

 

 

 

“

 
 
     
 

‘Dr. King. There are as many
__ reasons why students come to college
as there are individuals. However,
im every class, there are a few boys who

are searching for knowledge; but I

alae had several girls in my classes
who stated quite frankly that they
came here because there was a better
chance to meet eligible men than they
_ did in the small towns from which they

q A ‘f came. .
_———sO*Dr. ~Caril Coffin. Men come here

aie - for the three graces—wine, women and
_—~—s gong. ~They acquire the wine and
_—_—s song easily—are the women to blame
| _ because they aid them in their educa
er. + tion?

iS Why I Came to College.
-——- Hal Connor. I can tell why I came
ke. - in five words—for athletic, social and
'——s mental development. As for the editor

aa ‘of the Gazette I think he’s all wrong

about the girls.

| Martha Keniston. [| E

a college because you can’t get a job

=. > without a degree—and | think most

= girls have the same reason.

_ ~ — Elizabeth Saunderson. I[ came

because I wanted to learn interesting

_ things. I couldn’t bear to sit home
and do nothing. Moreover, I want to

came to

a. 7 be able to earn my living. As for the
eligible men—name three! |
_—s«éErnie Richardson. | think that a
—— golilege education will be a real asset

_—s fifty” years from now. As for the

-—s women—"‘some do and some don’t.”
e: - Harriet Roberts. Of course most

girls want an education, but | admit
a that some do come for a man and a
~~ great many come for a good time.

y Why Do Women Come to College.

r DeB. Holly. “Women come to
| ——s college ~because certain other women
- + eome to college. And those certain
‘ other women come to college because
: “it ig the thing to do,” The average
ee woman comes to acquire that air of
pe sophistication there is about a college
~~ woman. For sophistication is the
ce thing today, if we are to believe the
- magazines and moving pictures. Very
few women come to college for an
-——s education, because a real education
--—s will do them no good. They come
~~ mostly for social purposes,”
a. ‘Chas. Tapley. ‘‘To get their man;
asa professor once said—‘to get a B.A.,
| male preferred.’ And they come to
- ‘have a good time at the expense of us
poor devils. But, nevertheless, their
company is very pleasant. On the
whole they are good things to have
around, these women; we couldn’t do
a without them on the campus.’
ta John Fisher. “It is unfair to the
females to say that all women come to
ee ‘college to fill in time socially; for they
Bight, are indeed more studious at college
bg

    
    
  

than men. But there are some who
come with the’sole idea of filling in the
period of their lives between high

.

school graduation and that supposed
state of bliss—matrimony.”’

«John Andrew. An education at‘tracts some women to college; but
these are the exceptions. All women
are concerned with fulfilling their
biological function in life. Feeling
that they will better their marriage
i prospects, most women come to college
| today that they may be in contact
<> socially with the intelligentzia; and
_ with. those whose standard of living 1s

4 high. :
Of the women who came, harboring
good intentions for academic work,
very ~few, besides the unattractive,
~~ continue with their lofty ambition.
_—s-'The majority are detracted from study
ts by the attentions of the male students
_ who have come in, unfortunately, very

Mn \ *
ey he
ete
Ta
+

     

   
 

  
 

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill we ¢ : ence of the

| maker for that smartness so

A desired.

|| Birks have specialized for
|| years and now supply pracSicatha sil thie saloo and col
leges in the Province.
me Sketches and quotations
iggy gubmitted withe ut

  
 
   
 
 
 
 

V y Students Come To College |

A Symposium of Campus Opinion

  

. a ”
* _ large numbers *‘to take college,’ rather

  

ae spatiliaeatgiiiline

  
 
  
 

 

than a particular line of study. This
type of college man prefers the “‘peaches’ and leaves the “lemons” to their
work. As a rule, the “lemons” are
found to be the real students.

Why Do Women Want to be
Educated?

Harvey Hebb. Having been asked
to express my views on the question
“Do Women Want to be Educated?”
I must say I thoroughly agree with
everything that was written in_ the
editorial of the’ last issue. As Lord
Chesterfield once said: ‘Women have
but two passions, vanity and love;
these are their universal characteristics
basta sha all they say or all they do tends
to the gratification of their vanity or
their love.”’ It seems to be an innate
characteristic of women to be ruled
almost entirely by their emotions;
their reasoning powers are rarely called
into play. Hence, is it likely that they
should desire education, when their
stronger traits lie outside that realm?
Indeed, the average man does not
expect to find, and therefore does not
seek, intellectual stimulation, from the
average woman. If her anatomical
specifications reach a sufficiently felicitous standard, and if she is a moderately
fair expositor of the cuiinary art, he
willbe satisfied. Buteducation? Perish the theught!!

 

Junior Senior
Dance

Due to unforseen circumstances, the
date of the Junior-Senior Dance has
been changed from Mar. 11 to MAR.
14. The committee regret this inconvenience but they assure you that
all other arrangements will be carried
out according to schedule.

The committee have been fortunate
in securing the New Gymnasium, and
added distinction will thus be present
for it will be the first Formal Dance
to be held in the New Gym. Dalhousie is entering a new period of
physical and intellectual development
—let us celebrate this by attending the
Annual Formal Dance given to the
Seniors by the Junior Year

Laurie Hart, Evett Bishop and
George Thompson are in charge. Joe
Mills and a 6 piece band will be there—
and that means the best in music.
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh P. Bell and Prof.
and Mrs. Murray MacNeill have
consented to receive. Come and wish
Bon Voyage to this year’s Graduates.

——_++o———_

Professor Jewitt, stopping Fran Huntley in the corridor:—‘‘About time you
came over to see ME, Miss Huntley.”

‘Yes, I think I’d like to drop over
and see YOU sometime.”

“The others are beginning to work,
you know.”

Professor Jewitt IS sometimes con
ceited that way.

 

          
      
        
     
    
      
      
      
 
 

  
     
  

!) OER: ING.
Oh/ you dear!
Now we can invite

our Friends and

know they Il be oe
tocome. Its just what

Lwanted: a Piano from

PHINNEY’S

You, too, may have music

BELL Piano to-day

Enjoy the great pleasure of self
expression in music now.

Cee nn

 

 

       
     
  
   
  
  
      
   
  
     
    
  
 
  
   
    
  

  
    
      
    
  
 
 
            
  
   
 
   
     

OVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
- Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.
aoe a Write or call for Calendar or advice.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

: oe ea
poem OS eS

The Student

Forum

The Delta Gamma is over but the
effects are just beginning to be felt.
Pine Hill has declared a boycott on
Dalhousie women, who, they claim,
are too unappreciative. From now

to May, H. L. C. wilt get the breaks. S Coltinin: Devated to Comnient

and Controversy.

In this time of depression, any little
habits of economy deserve notice
Therefore we give to our readers Jack
Oldfield’s receipt for filling the evening
with vim, vigor and vitality, combined

 

The Editor,

with vivacity. ‘‘Three aspirin, a glass Dalhousie Gazette,
of ginger ale and a cigarette and she
won’t speak to you for a week” says} Dear Sir:—

| Jack. The .majority of your readers feel
that justice was scarcely done to the
enigmatic female mind as revealed to
the expectant public in last week's
editorial entitled ‘‘Do the Women
Want to be Educated?” This article
was obviously conceived and written
by an immature or rather undeveloped
mind, but even so we are at a loss to
understand how any one could put forth
statements with so little basis. Was
the writer desperately trying to ward
off the attacks of three hundred avid
females or was he making a last effort
to attract the attention of these same
females?

If, however, he believes what he
says, let him consider a few questions:
Would any woman spend several
thousand dollars at a relatively small
college in the hope of “‘getting a man”’
when she might spend it on attractive
clothes, or travel where her chances
would be much better? Does the
writer realize that, in the opinion of
the average co-ed whom he so expertly
dissects, about one per cent of the
Dalhousie men are eligible bachelors?
Does he realize that she can talk intelligently on many subjects of which
he knows nothing? Did he ever stop
to think that a girl had to lower her
conversational level in order to talk
to him on a common basis? His
opinion of an education has evidently
been dictated by his own chcice of
classes. Why is a man who talks
carelessly of Tolstoy better educated
than a girl who prefers Einstein? Is
the ability to use words like ‘‘ubiquitous” the only thing in life? An education consists in learning how to learn,
in. training the mind. The direction
which that training is to take is a
personal matter. The average coed
comes here to learn something; if, while
here, she attends all the social affairs
possible, she differs little from the
male element.
eet us, a DlOBNg, remind the writer
E ‘ e that a knowledge of men is as good an

Prof. Jewitt reading Hamlet: Ham- education as . knowledge of books.
let dashed out of the bog into Ophelia’s} Hoping that this will cause him to
bedroom, with doublet all unbraced, | see the error of his ways, we are, sir
no hat upon his head, his stockings . aan
foul’'d—’”’

‘‘Pardon me, sir, was it customary
for the gentlemen to wear hats in the
lady’s boudoir?”

Prof. Jewitt: —‘Well, from my limited experience—’ Emotion (-) choked him. ‘That is to say, in the Elizabethan time—”

Keeping the schoolgirl complexion
is quite a problem. Harriet Roberts
and Connie MacFarlane have solved it
nicely by keeping umbrellas between
themselves and the sun,

We hear that many people regard
our column as a little too personal.
George MacIntosh, ex-editor of the
Gazette suggests that we will make
more friends by relating good deeds,
and offers, with becoming modesty,
the fact that whenever he gets a cheque
cashed he drops.a few pennies into the
box marked ‘‘For the Poor.”

LATIN I.
by
Professor Yeo.

  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

‘Beginning at line 265, will you translate please, Mister Rawley?”

“I’m sorry I cawn’t do it suh.”’

“Will you do this, Mister Spry?”

Mister Spry translated.

“Miss Florence Keniston will you
complete this passage?”

“T haven't prepared it, sir.”

“Martha?”

Miss Martha Keniston blushed;
Professor Yeo didn’t realize his faux
pas. Flo showed her elation at having
the goods on her sister by a hearty
handshake to the class.

(‘‘Martha?’’)

  
 
          
     
      
       
       
      

Uproarious laughter.

Professor Yeo:—‘‘I wish you wouldn't laugh when Mr. Rawley is translating. After all, he doesn’t really mean
to be funny!”

More uproarious laughter!

English I, by Professor Jewitt.

Yours very truly,
Faith, Hope and Charity.

No Mistake

You will make no mistake
in asking friends to dine,
lunch or have tea with you
at ‘*The Green’’ where
every effort is made to give
satisfactory service.........
 

The Green Lantern

 
 

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

 
  
  

  

  

    
 

 
 
 

21 Spring ‘Garden Road ment of agriculture.

 
 

Leather Goods

Portfolios, Trunks
Bags and Luggage of
all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

 

   
 
 
 

    
 
  

life of the Province.

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
  

  

    

 

 

perity of the entire Province.

 
 
 
   
   
 
   
    
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

TURRET!

Each succeeding Turret
lifts your pleasure to still
higher levels—they’re so
cool, mild and fragrant.

Mild and Fraqrant

urret

CIGARETTES

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS
Small Musical Instruments
and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED
6.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours:

Two travel fot same as one.

More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six.

 

THE MARITIMES

“One For All---All For One’’

 

This present year promises to be a banner year from the standpoint
of the Tourist Industry. This industry, practically still in its infancy,
so far as Nova Scotia is concerned, has nevertheless assumed proportions
which have provided unmistakable evidence of its value and importance.

During the past few years, in increasing numbers, visitors from the
United States and from Central and Western Canada, have spent vacations in Nova Scotia and have returned to their homes delighted with
the natural beauty of the Province and the hospitality of its people.

This year, a still greater influx of tourists may be confidently expected, providing that the people of the Province whole-heartedly cooperate in the matter of publicity and in the making of adequate preparations for the entertainment and enjoyment of the visitors.

In this matter, as in all things else pertaining to the welfare and
development of Nova Scotia, the prime essential is CO-OPERATION.
In business generally, and in every aspect of our Provincial life, oneness
of effort and unity of purpose are requisite to growth and prosperity.
Co-operation among the farmers can materially assist in the develop
mel Co-operation among the fruit growers will result
in the advancement of that important industry.

Nor should we overlook the fact that co-operation on the part of the
consumers in the matter of purchasing whenever possible the products
of Nova Scotia is of vital importance to the well-being and general prosTo support home industries, thereby
creating a greater demand for Nova Scotia-made goods is to assist
materially towards solving the problem of unemployment and hastening the return of better times and added prosperity in the industrial

 

‘“‘Buy Maritime Goods’’

Let us all work together for the Maritimes.

A MARITIME MANUFACTURER

 

    
   
   
  

 

|

 
§ ainst ©
ons Of |

we:
q
ye

r last regular
eam and its management,
f which is not borne out
It is quite evident that the
' knows very little about the
yhich our football teams are
The choice is made by the
es, with the captain giving his
| only in very close decisions.
anager is seldom, if ever, asked
vice in these matters, yet your
lays the blame of fraternity
ie oo ys: -- toe

* of positions on the fact
the managers themselves have
__ fraternity ‘members. I think
eed say nothing further of the entire
allaciousness of these statements. I
ight add that every man who turned
9 or practice during the past season
riven every opportunity to show
and no one was
ion without at least two trials of

bilit

ing you for this space in your
am \

Thank
>! Wety trury yours,

Wh Cl MacKENZIE.

Soe S| PhucFeSdt is
>. i. — March 10-11-12 |

“THE WOMAN”
FROM
ie

| “MONTE
| CARLO”

WITH

: a

at

‘
it

es ae Ty) i
ray

Sait

a |

i

f .
se:
.
*

©
5,
a
dg

ane
,
‘a %

i
ae |
i

| WALTER HUSTON

|
f,

j| By_ special arrangement
_ || with a local wholesale house
|] we can now supply our cus|| customers with gymnasium
Ri Samples are now on dis|] play at our store. We invite
| your early inspection and
|| orders, as the local supply is
|] limited, and a new stock is
|] to be ordered to meet the
|| demand.

This Offer Until Friday |

enied any

, i 7

eds

feaodt. LC. In

| Hockey

Z Other Features On
Programme.

The Students of Dalhousie will have
a chance to support their Co-ed ice.
hockey team when they meet the Halifax Ladies, in a game for the City
Title, this game will take place at the
Forum on March 16th at 8 p. m. |

Miss Syble Beatteay of St. john,
N. B., will meet Elizabeth Flemming,
o two match races, the 440 and 880

Ss.

! Men’s races, the Halifax Skating
Club in Fancy skating, Barrel jumping
and Obstacle race will complete the
programme), (General skating until
11 o’clock. Remember the date,
March 16th, Forum. Time 8. p.m.
Price 5c. and a chance to support
your team. :

Girls Basketball

On Saturday noon March 5th the
Mount Allison girls team met the Dalhousie girls in the first basketball game
staged in the new gymnasium, This

ame was a good exhibition of basket
Ball and the Dalhousie girls played a
much better game than they did at
Acadia. At the end of the first half
the score was 12-8 in favor of Mount
Allison. Excitement ran high throughout the game, but the opposing team
kept in the lead till the end. The final
score was 28-18 in favour of the Mount
Allison team. :

N. B. The Dalhousie girls will meet
the Acadia girls team at 7.30 on Thursday night of this week in the New
Gymnasium,

WINNERS FROXer

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
-a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equireneat
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

Wed. and Cie ek 9-10
“24 Hours”
CLIVE BROOKS
KAY FRANCIS

Friday and Sat. — March 11-12
THE FOUR

Marx Brothers
IN

“Monkey Business”

Evenings 20c. and 30c.
Matinee 25c,

Only. |

Made-to-Measure

livery

ae.
a)

pr

— gt oe Cee of " a: yo
4 - Ya ae al gees a he : ‘a i 2
reg ee “<— rae pee eT ow a
7 ; ey ‘?; Oo Ww eT Lae ee een «. =
e ae te 7 (ee : Pag Ay, ie . a all wer hei gh ‘
ee ie Bm A 7 ; . % . i

{6n-S

ee oe
_

- ~ vs r
‘ar

=
> oe
=m

ea,

i | a) a
ee
.

ay

With One

Pair Pants

With Two

Pair Pants

Suits

$19.95
$24.85

We are able to repeat the popular offer
of a few weeks ago, as we have just
received new sample cloths.
choose yours early we guarantee de
If you

before Easter. ©

See these new materials, examine the
‘| weave,
Jand we think you will agree this is a
unusual offering. Choose from a large
_|fange of neat patterns, worsteds, navy and
grey in a variety of stripes, blues, browns,
grey and navy herringbones, shadow and
{cluster stripes.
men and young men and all sizes.

the quality of the cloths and lining,

Models and styles to suit

_ Eaton's Main Fioor.

‘ous and

Play \c. O. T. C. Notes |

Despite the vast volume of humour

which has been showered upon us
through the pages of this great and
powerful journal, we are doing very
well, thank you. It might be fitting
in this place to ask ‘‘Mr. G. Howie
Shoots, Gazette Co-respondent,’’ what
sort of a world this would be if the
bedbugs had not been exterminated?

At the time of writing, all cadets are
showing unbounded optimism with
regard to the coming examinations.
Possibly their enthusiasm will have
been somewhat damped by the time
they read this. A sentence which was
prominent in the copy-books of a few
years ago seems very fitting in this
regard: ‘‘Hope for the best, prepare
for the worst, and take what comes.”
Indeed that is an excellent explanation,
in fact it is the raison d'etre, of the
whole C, O. T. C. organization.

This ‘‘pacifist organization”’ is indeed
grateful for the provisions which have
been made for it in the new gym.
There can be no doubt, but that we
shall be able, next year, to havea
much bigger and better organization
than ever before.

Katy’s Mistake

This is a tale of credible calamity
concerning the Kittens of Kitz’s cat
Katy.

Kitz had a cat called Katy. One
cold, clear morning, Kitz precariously
climbed the crooked stairs, and there
lay Kitz’s cat Katy, curled up on a
cushion, cuddling six coy kittens.
Katy’s curly coiffure kinked completely
as Kitz cursed her kittens. ‘I can’t
keep them,” cried Kitz.

Thereupon Kitz called upon Corkum,
“Corky,” croaked Kitz, ‘‘give me 10
rounds of ammunition.’’ So Corky
complied, and came across. Then
cruel Kitz curled the kittens into cod
cans and cocking his cockade and his
rifle killed the coy kittens. Crack!
Crack! Six cold, crooked corpses were
collected in coffins and cast away; and
six curious, kittens’ souls crawled to
Cat Heaven. And if you don’t believe
this catty tale of Kitz’s cat Katy
and her kittens ask Kitz. Beware!
Don’t do anything you can’t do on
a bicycle or YOU may get shot too!

Badminton Club

Formed

Last Saturday afternoon, a badminton Club, under the Hon. Presidency
of Professor Mercer was formed for
Dalhousie. Charlie Clarke was unanimously elected President: 5
- Vice-Pres.—Muriel Lucas.

Sect.-Treas.—Lib Saunderson, 
Manager—Bab Hatfield.

Executive—Lil Fraser, Lib Murray,
George Covert and Hal. Connor.

Anyone interested is urged to get
in touch with a member of the executive
Badminton promises to be one of Dalhousie’s prominent sports. Join now!

Sigma Theta Pi

(Continued from page 1).

and Lilly Grant were present. Other
members and their guests who attended
were: Ruth MacAulay, Edith Allen,
Florence-Hewatt, Esther Elliott, Margaret Montgomery, Helena Bishop,
Helen Nelson, Marg Murray, Helen
Mackie, Pat Cann, Mary Simmonds,
Polly Burris, Marie Ferguson, Eleanor
Soulis, Connie Smith, Maurine Creighton, Lilias MacDonald, Adele Richie,
Mona Wallace, Mary Harris, Merle
Purtill, Margaret Burris. Messrs
Laurie Hart, Dippy Donahoe, John
Scott, Carson Murray, Huhie Grant,
Don Grant, Manning Archibald, Jerry
Stewart, Charlie Lorway, Charlie Clark
Eldon Eagles, Ken MacKenzie, Harold
Nelson, Bill Jost, Harry Mann, Jack
Worrell, Turner O'Brien, Bill Simpson,
John Proctor, Louie MacLellan, Ron
Flemming, Allan Cooke, Joe Connolly,
Frank Squire, Ken Purtill, Gordon
Howell, Jack Findlay.

The Victory Of
Mediocrity
(Continued from page 1.)

Women are the real conservative
part of life. As wives and mothers
they are the very antithesis of war’s
devestating principles. As man’s inability to put an end to war becomes
more evident, it also becomes evident
that women will have an important
part to play in life’s politics. Artistophanes conceived the idea in his classic
comedy ‘“‘Lysistrata’ in which the
women of Athens and Sparta led by
Lysistrata refused to consort with their
husbands until they stopped warring.
The woman of Australia are contemplating drastic measures to end unemployment. As the League of Nations totters, more than one serious
minded person has suggested the banding together of all women into one international league—a mighty women’s
organization that will say NO! NO!
to suggestions of war. It is to the
universities that one looks for women
of training, intelligence and leadership.
What hope there is of finding these
qualities in the smoke filled college
rooms of our pampered butterflies,

ns Gymnasium
Notes

semi-humourous criticism]

Revival of Fencing at Dalhousie.

_ Many will be pleased to know of the
revival of the Grand Old Pastime at
Dal on Saturday last a very enthusiastic organization meeting was held in
the New Gymnasium, for the purpose
of forming a Fencing Club. After
the business meeting, the boys pro
ceeded to the Small Gym where many

received their first lesson in the art of
the foils. This class will meet every
Saturday afternoon from 2.30 until 4
p. m. for instruction, while practice
can be obtained at any time while the
building is open for student activities.

Mixed Badminton.

Some forty-odd students of both sex
took advantage of the first session for
mixed doubles which was held in then
New Gym on Saturday afternoo
last. It certainly made a _ splendid
picture for the spectators to witness
twelve couples using the six badminton
courst at the same time, dressed in
their white or cream flannels.

Saturday afternoons will be reserved
tor mixed badminton from 2,15 unti
6 p. m., so get out your white ducks or
flannels, bring along your racket, if
you have one and join the crowd next
Saturday.

Boxing, Wrestling, Fencing, Handball, etc. ‘

While the upper gym was crowded
with badminton players, the lower
gym was being used to capacity with
boxers, wrestlers, fencers and even
part of the men’s locker room was
turned into a handball court, during
the afternoon well over a hundred
students made use of the new building.

Student’s Volley Ball League.

It has been suggested, that on account of walls in the new gym being
too soft to allow for the playing of
softball, that a volleyball league be
organized to take the place of the
Interfaculty Softball Series. Faculty
managers interested call Coll Stewart,
Phone B1944 as soon as possible,

Badminton
Tournament For

Men

First Round.

Clarke vs. Claener.

Oyler vs. Spry.
Kanigsberg vs. Thurlow.
Murray bye

Candow bye.

MacLellan bye

Holland bye.

Slayter bye

J. Mackintosh bye.
Crowdis bye.

Matheson bye.

Tapley bye.

Finlay vs. Crichton.

Covert vs. Musgrave.

. Pattillo vs. MacDougall.
16. Liloy vs. Hatfield.

These matches must be played before
Sat., Mar. 12th. or else they will be
scratched, Players must arrange their
own matches.

The complete schedule will be posted
in the gymnasium.

There will be Badminton for girls in
the new gymnasium on Saturdays from
2.30-4. 30.

Juniors Defeat
Seniors

(Continued from page 1.)

attractive in the uniforms which were
being used. She appealed to the
coeds to exert their influence to abolisn
the C. O. T. C. and to save the male
students from anything worse than
foot-ball, The first step in doing away
with the dire prospect of another war
is to abolish the C. O, T. C.

Mr. Fraser, a member of the Dalhousie C, O, T. C, was of the opinion
that such an organization was not only
of benefit to the individual but also
to the Dominion of Canada. Disarmament is the ideal condition, but
human nature is averse to it. Just
asthe people who lock their doors do
not in general commit burglary, neither
neither does a nation which prepares
a defence start a war. As long as
Canada is potentially in danger, she
must keep some defensive force. In the
event of a war there will be leaders ready
and if there are no wars, these same
men who are trained in principles of
leadership are a valuable asset in the
peaceful occupations.

Mr. Fraser and Mr. Rogers then engaged in rebuttals.

Mr. Charles Lorway, speaking
from the floor, took issue with the
statement that students join the C.
O. T. C. so as to get officer’s pay in
the next war. He said that all students
would be officers.

Mr. Raymond McCarthy. denied
that only one officer was turned out
last year; instead twelve were trained.

Mr, Julius Rosenblum suggested
that the resolution should have been
more strictly. adhered to, and while
he would not favour abolition of armaments or defensive measures, yet he
did not like the university giving the
public the idea that it was sponsoring
militarism.

The judges, Professor H. E. Read,
Professor V. C. McDonald and Professor Mercer, gave the decision in
favour of the Junior Class. The final
debate for the Bennett Shield series
will be held within a short time, and
will be between the Juniors and Freshmen,

ee ee ee

Sport Comment

At time of writing the date for the
final games of the city intercollegiate
league had not been decided, but it was
likely that they would be staged on
Tuesday or Wednesday of this week.
Both of the games will be in the nature
of exhibition matches, and will have
no bearing on the standing. In the
first game, Dalhousie is slated to meet
St. Mary’s, while King’s and N. §S.
Tech clash in the second, It is likely
that the night will be made a Dal
skating night at the Forum.

—

The result of the final two games
in the intermediate basketball league
has created a three-cornered tie for
first place between St. John’s, Y. M. C.
A. and the Wanderers, necessitating a
playoff for the title between the three
teams. Dal Cubs, after springing one
of the surprises of the league a little
over a week ago by defeating St. John’s
one of the league, has dropped the final
two games played in the league, to
King’s and to Wanderers, sending the
Dal team down to last place in the
league.

The week has been a quiet one in
college sport, no interfaculty basketball
games having been played, and no
college hockey, but with the opening
of the new gym, it is expected that
athletic activities will get away to a
fresh start. First on the schedule will
come the badminton tourney, and with
the excellent courts provided, it is expected that there will be a large number of entrants and keen competition.

The new gym will provide contestants
for berths on the Dalhousie boxing
team with adequate facilities for training, being more modernly equipped
for that purpose than was the cld
‘‘barn”’. The maritime intercollegiate
tourney is being held at St. F. X. on the
18th of this month, and Dal expects to
send alonga strong contingent. King’s
will only contest one class, the 147pound division, in which that college
will be represented by Carl Holm,
present maritime intercollegiate welterweight champion.

March 9th, 1982

: Deca “Fig
Hoop Tilt —

Kings Wins “Contest .
36-23

Dalhousie Cubs dropped the final
two games of the intermediate basket
ball league, in games played with

King's last Wednesday night and
against Wanderers on Saturday. In
the first game King’s had the edge over
the Cubs at all stages, and had no
difficulty in emerging victors by a score
of 36 to 23.

The tine-ups and scores foilow:

King’s—Cole (2), Muggah (4), Smith

| (14), Regan (4), Kent (2), Tapley (6),

MacCarthy (4), Dorman. Tutal 36.

Dalhousie—MacDougall (8), Mann,
McDonald (10), J. MacIntosh, B. MacIntosh, C. Stoddard (4), B. Stoddard,
Thompson, Kopf, Scott (1). Total 23.

The Cubs scoring in the game with
Wanderers was:

MacDougall (4), Mann, MacDonald
(4), J. McIntosh (2), B. MacIntosh, C.
Stoddard (1), B. Stoddard, Thompson.
Kopt, Scott, Musgrave (2), Smotsky (2),
Tota! 15.

The final standing of the league is as
follows:

Football Notice

All students intending to be in
the City this coming Summer interested in football workouts kindly leave their names with George

Thompson as soon as possible.

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR

Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
or Dinners.

Do You Know?

That we have the most modern heated storage space in the
city, and we rent this out at

the lowest rates.

Insurance

rates, too, are very low.

Also that we maintain a.....
splendid repair and upholstering
department, and the work.....
turned out is really unusually
good, while the rates charged

Why not ask us for a price

on your next storage or repair
job?

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

‘Furnishers of Happy Homes”
448-450 Barrington St.

are very low.

Canada.

 
