   

  
 

   

Voted Visitor

gna 8 a
Large
7 eee ) EACarS

\

ys ‘saa }
Mr. Yusuf

 

: ‘
: le

Ali, on Monday morning
at 12.00 addressed the Students in the
“hemistry Theatre. One of the largest
crowds that ever attended a University
ae lecture packed the large room to
capacity. Both doorways were crowded and some students even resorted
to climbing in through windows in an

i effort to hear this famous speaker.
78s Mr. Yusuf Ali spoke of the obstacles

in the way of Progress for India _men‘ tioning the fact that there is £2 per
cent illiteracy in India; but the last

ae 20 years have seen great strides in the

advancement of education. Another
hindrance to progress was_ the

Ae friction between the Moslems and the

— Hindus. He pointed out the basic
2 _ differences between the two races,
_ * saying that Hindus are impractical

and believe in a mystic religion and
theif cast system is an enormous
“ detriment to them. The Hindus are
an undemocratic people. On the other
j hand the Moslems are open-minded
practical and ready to make any arrangement that is at all agreeable to
all classesin India. They are extremek ly democratic.
‘ned “The trouble at the Round Table
- Conference, was to reconcile the differences and attain representation from
all types and classes of the people of
India. Mr. Yusuf Ali also criticised
‘a the British rule in India. He could
\ sufficiently not express his high opinton
of the new Viceroy of India, Lord
hae Willingdon, and he felt sure that we,
as Canadians, would agree with him
that India had a great and just man
as governor. 7
Mr. Ali answered questions put to
‘him by the students after his illunmin
    
  
 

 
 
 

connection with universities in England

and India. He obtained his LLM.

p Wis tee ‘s

; =
oe.

~—

_ from Cambridge with honours, attend
ed Oxford, London, Sorbonne, Heidel
burg, Florence and Rome. At the
_——s éppresent time he is still connected with
one or two Indian Universities so as

‘ ei he says, he ‘lives in an atmosphere of

me Universities.” :

wie * _ He has served his country as Reve‘ nue Minister in the Hyderabad State.
@ a He was in the Indian Civil Service from

Psy! 1895 until1911. He was then appointbn ed Under Secretary and Deputy Secus retary to the Government of India.
. Prevented by his age from taking part
in combative service during the war he
| took an active part in administration
Sig? and giving advice to commissions and
a ; at the end of the war was one of the
| Indian Delegates to the Peace Treaty
discussions in Paris.
Since that time Mr. Yusuf Ali has
worked for Peace among the nations
and a more intelligent understanding
among the many races and peoples of
both hemispheres. In 1928 he was
appointed one of India’s Delegates to
the League of Nations.
, From earliest days Mr. Yusuf Ali has
i” been educating himself and trying to
help others to see things with as wide
a view as he does himself and his pe
knowledge and comprehension of the
* English Language he clearly showed
to the students who were lucky enough
to get into the Chemistry Theatre.
: Dalhousie was the first Canadian
University to which he has spoken and
we feel sure that had there been room
many more students would have
attended this interesting lecture.

| Shirreff Hall

Miss Ruth Mackenzie from New
_--—s Gidlasgow has been visiting Betty March
for a few days.

Peggie Allen has had as a guest at
the Hall, Miss Frances MacNeill of
New Glasgow.

7 __ Elizabeth Tweedie of Chatham, N. B.
ie has been a guest of Margaret Sadler
cy at the Hall. nie
ei. Even the lateness of the Engineers
ye. Ball did not dampen the ardour for
aa exercise of the girls. We hear that

a

aon

   
  
      

several of them went hiking with some
of the Commerce boys Saturday afternoon. Looks as though they've gone
--—-*_ in training for the Commerce Ball.

4

 

ure and briefly mentioned his

Speaks At Studley

Audience || Touring Canada

 

 

MR. ABDULLAH YUSUF
Classes Hold
Meetings

CLASS 32 MEETING.

 

 

The Senior Class held a meeting
Thursday January 14th in Room 4 of
the Arts Building. Despite the fact
that there was a huge attendance, and
considering that it was not a Freshman
meeting, only ten people agreed to go to
their class party. So far the Senior
Class have had no social activity this
year. Time and time again requests
have been made for a class party, with
the good old Freshman spirit, but
when the point is finally brought up,
ten people agree to go!! What do the
rest of the members want? Why is it
that class enthusiasm dies after the
first year of college life? Come on
séniors, pay your class fees and show a
little interest in your graduating class.

CLASS 34.

 

We haven't heard much from Class
34 since Freshman week, but they are
certainly still here, and still planning
another party. It is rumoured that
Class 84 are inviting Class 35 to join
them, in a party on a bigger and better
basis, it may even be a sleigh drive so
don’t fail to read the notice boards
every hour or so.

MEETING OF CLASS ’35.

After the class picture had been
taken, the whole class ’35 trooped into
Room 8. The business to be discussed
was that of the class rings and pins.
After explaining fully prices and sizes,
the president announced, ‘‘Will the
ladies come up and look at the samples.”
Imagine our surprise when 6 ft. 4 inches
of Andy Bruce leaped to the fore.
After the aforesaid has been satisfied,
—and decided not to have any—the
ladies grouped themselves artistically
around poor John, exclaiming and
ejaculating over the designs. Several
comments such as “‘cute,"’ and “‘sweet”
were heard.

Treasurer, Jack Slater, with the able
assistance of Janet MacNeil informed
the class that due to small-pox at the
Hall, our class party was to be postponed until January 22nd. Incidentally
the lack of snow was a factor, since the
aforementioned party was to have been
a sleigh drive. Since all business had
been dealt with, the meeting adjourned.

YEAR BOOK NOTICE.

All biographies must be in
by Jan. 20th.

All individual photos must
be taken at Gauvin and Gentzel’s before Jan. 31st.

Let us have your cooperation.

  

(ILLIONAIRES BALL”

Official Student Pub

 

cm,

lication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA-SCOTIA, JANUARY 20th, 1932.

The Boilermakers

The Engineers held their annual
dance last Friday evening in the Nova
Scotian, and at 5 o'clock on Saturday
morning the four hundred _ people
present were unanimously declarmg
it bigger and wetter than ever, before
crawling wearily into their respective
beds.

Really the evening was an unqualified
success. Everyone you ever heard of
was there and many out of town guests
aswell. The Haggarty orchestra aided
by a new man at the traps put on their
very best music, ‘““The Saint Louis
Blues’’ as usual being the favourite
number. On the platform were two
strange creatures beside the musicians.

One was an elephant but it would
take some prominent biologist to guess
the identity of the other. A feature of
the evening was the playing of Mr.
Harvey Hebb, guest organist who
accompanied the orchestra in several
numbers and played during the supper
intermission. The organ could be
heard down in the hotel dining-room
where supper was served in relays about
midnight.

Several people from town came in at
the closeof the dance at Government
House augmenting the already large

crowd. Streamer confetti was handed
around and soon decorated halls,
ballroom and dancers. About this

time a crash near the organ substantiated that certain damages were
collected from the hosts of the evening,

sight of a bowler hat wavering about
on top of a jardinier.

President Stanley and Mrs. Stanley
chaperoned the ball and honorary
guests of the evening were Professor
and Mrs. Copp, Professor and Mrs.
Theakston and Professor and Mrs.
Murray Macneill.

The programmes were hichly ori “inal
picturing a girl dancing with a typical
engineer. They failed, however, to
mention the committee, in charge who
deserve many congratulations. God
Save the King was played at threethirty, bringing to a close the first
big dance of 1982, A dance let.us add,
that certainly set a high standard for

those following to live up to.

N.. F.C. U.

In concluding the report of the
National Federation of Canadian University Students Conference the major
undertaking of the organization, ae
of debating and Exchange of Undergraduate Scheme, will now be considered

Debating.
|

The debating history of the Federation shows that particular success has
been achieved and this important field
of College activity. As the three year
schedule for debating expires at the
end of this year it was necessary, at
the recent Conference, to draw up a
schedule for a similar future period.
But before outlining the conclusions
determined for the coming years it
might be well to review the achieve
ments attained in the past.

Dalhousie was represented on the
first Debating Tour undertaken by the
Federation when Mr. Ernest Howse
joined representatives from Acadia
and U. N. B. debating at Bishop's
College, Lennoxville, and points west
as far as Vancouver.

Other debates sponsored
follows:

were as

Australian Team.

Canadian-U. S. Team.

Western Canada Team.

New Zealand Team.

Central Canada-Western Team.
N.S. F. A.-Maritime Team.

British Debating Team: In the fall|
of 1930 the N. F. C. U.S. returning the

invitation of their sister bodies in
England and Scotland which had
previously entertained a Canadian

team received a team composed of Mr.
H. Trevor Lloyd (nominee of the
N. U. S.) and Mr. John Mitchell
(nominee of the S. R. C.’'s of Scotland).
This tour was an outstanding success
and the style of debating as exemplified
by this team has done much to improve
debating in Canadian Universities.
Arrangements have been completed
for two tours to take place this coming
month: representatives from Mt. Aliison and Macdonald College wil! debate
at points west of and including Toronto.

‘by the way the dance was handled.
- Frank Goudge, Gordie Elkin and Ken
‘ Mahen desérve a lot of praise for their

t
by the hotel management as did :

 

 

Engineering Notes

A meeting of the Engineering Society
was ‘held on Monday, Jan. 11 and
many important matters were discussed,

George Mackie was elected manager
of the Interfaculty Hockey team, entered by the Engineers and expects to
have a strong team by the time the
first game is arranged,

Sanford Scott was elected manager
of the basketball team and expects
support from the members of the
Engineering Society. After discussing
the events of the ‘‘Boilermakers Ball”
the meeting was adjourned.

Dalhousie Grad

   

It has been announced by Mackie,
Manager of the Engineering hockey
squad that they will hold their initial
practise on the Forum ice on Wed.
of this week. In conversation with
Manager Mackie he announced that
the Engineers have many good players
and a banner season in hockey could
be looked forward to.

Again the ‘Boilermakers’ put it
over when they held their 11th Annual
Ball in the Nova Scotian on Friday
evening, Jan. 15th. About four hundred people expressed their delight

untiring efforts.

 

MR. ALVIN F. MACDONALD

A Distinguished
Graduate

Anyone out on Sunday afternoon,
curious enough to know how a window
on Tram car No. 105 returning from
Chocolate Lake happened to be missing,
please phone ‘‘Coolie’’ and he will
explain all.

   
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  

Jokes on Charles I. Bacon have been
missing from recent issues of the
Gazette for the reason that Charles has
threatened action against the reporter
of the column.

Of interest to graduates and undergraduates is the news of the transfer
of Mr. Alvin F. MacDonald, Dominion
Archivist for the Maritimes, from
Halifax to Ottawa. Mr. MacDonald
has had an enviable career which
should be a splendid example to all
Dalhousians.

Alvin F. MacDonald was born in
Hopewellin Pictou County. He entered Dalhousie University in the Fall of
1889 as a Freshie-Soph. After graduating in 1892 with a Bachelor of Arts he
then registered in the Law Faculty
He was granted his L. L. B. in 1894
His academic career was one of splen
did success as was shown by his winning
the Senior Munrce Bursary and during
all the years that he was at the Univer
sity he was known for his earnestness
his sincerity, and his good fellowship.

After graduation he was appointed
to the staff of the Halifax Chronicle
and later to the position of News
Editor, afterwards becoming the Editor
in Chief. In 1909 he was a delegate
to the Imperial Press Conference in
London. As one of the prominent
members of this assembly of journalists
he was one of the Canadian Executive
Committee. In 1926 Mr. MacDonald
took an active part in the work of the
Maritime Rights Commission.

In Halifax Mr. MacDonald was well
known and very popular. He was
accorded the great distinction of being
elected twice President of the North
British Society; an unusual occurrence
only duplicated by the Hon. MacCa!]|
lum Grant, during the whole history of
the Society.

Since the construction of the Archives on the Campus and the appoint
Campbell Fraser has again resumed
his studies at the University after a
lengthy vacation in St. John.

S. Report

At the same time Messrs. W. J. Garnett
(Ontario Agriculture College) and Osmond Matte (University of Ottawa)
will debate at points east of Montreal
including Dalhousie.

The above two mentioned debated
complete the three year cycle of debates sponsored by the Federation.
In order to have sufficient patronage
at these debates, an endeavor has been
made in selecting subjects to avoid
those of ponderous nomenclature, touch
ing as much as possible upon the
‘light’’ type of subject without trenching upon the ridiculous.

As to the drafting of a new three year
cycle the Executive Council decided
that, after providing a schedule for the
year 1932-33, the furtherance of that
cycle could be more effectively treated
by a Standing Committee on Debating
working in conjunction with the officers, The Executive Council went on
record as favoring the sponsoring of a
Woman's debating team or teams to
tour Canada during the months of
January and February, 1933, meeting
teams irrespective of sex. Arrangements will be undertaken immediately

 

to have a British debating team visit] ment of Professor D. C. Harvey
Canada during the fall of 1982, and|another Old Dalhousian, to the posito send teams from Canada to the}¢jon of Archivist, it has been found
British Isles, United States, Porto unnecessary to keep Mr. MacDonald
Rico, J 4. ce. a1.) here, hence his transfer to Ottawa
_One of the duties of the Standing|ypeore he will continue his active
Committee on Debating will be a interest in Canadian History at the

thorough investigation of the various
systems of debating used in Canada
with a view to arriving at some standardization of rules and procedure for
debates held under the auspices of the
Federation.

As a final word on this subject,
the opinions expressed at the Conference were to the effect that the formal
style of debate was dying out and
interest was greatly enlivened by the
introduction of the parliamentary system.

Dominion Archives. Mr. MacDonald
in his capacity of Archivist for the
Maritime Provinces carried on his
work with an effort that was untiring
and a spirit of pride in Maritime history
that was unflagging.

As a journalist Mr. MacDonald was
blessed with the faculty of selecting
the important and interesting matter
for publication. His style was forceful
and it showed his ability to record
events in a logical and pleasant way.
As an Archivist he exhibited a wide
knowledge of history and a great
interest in Maritime affairs.

The Gazette joins with all his friends

———+-e—___

To pass out with dignity was evidently the motto of the Law Society Presi- eG :
dent at the recent banquet, when in|in wishing him even greater success
the course of his remarks he expressed|in the future and we wish to stress the
a desire to be “‘borne out by his elders|fact that here again is another Dalpresent.” housian who has made good.

JOE MILL’S ORCHESTRA

JANUARY 29th-------9 P. M.---3 A. M.

 

No. 10

St. Mary’s Victorious in

Fast Hockey Battle

Dalhousie Tigers
Suffer First
Loss

In by far the fastest game of the
intercollegiate hockey league this season to date, the St. Mary's outfit
defeated Dalhousie Tigers by a score
of 3 to nil Monday night at the Forum,
and thereby gained a one-game lead
over Dalhousie in the league standing.
By virtue of Tech’s win over King’s
in the first game of the night, the
Engineers are now in a tie for second
place in the league with Dalhousie.

The Dal-St, Mary’s battle, witnessed
by the largest fan following of the year
in intercollegiate circles, provided them
with al! the thrills of hockey of bygone
days, and the Tigers though finishing
the game three goals down, by no
means conceded the battle till the
closing bell had sounded, and waged
an equal fight with the Saints throughout the entire three periods. Two of
the periods went scoreless. the first and
third, and in the middle session St
Mary’s took advantage of their opportunities and rang up three counters
in rapid succession. All three scores
however, came as a result of clever
playing, the combination play of the
Saints beating the Dal defence on each
occasion. The first score of the game
came from the stick of Nelson early
in the second period when he took a
pass in front of the net and flipped the
puck in. It was an impossible save,
and Purtill, who had been playing a
wonderful game in the nets for the
Tigers, protested the score on the
ground that it was offside, but he was
overruled by referee Timmie Hunter.
The second goal followed within a
couple of minutes, Carroll sending in a
shot from left wing that rolled through
Purtill’s pads. Fullerton put St.
Mary's three up five minutes later
when he slid into the net, carrying the
puck with him, and Hunter allowed
the goal.

The third period witnessed a desperate rally by the Tigers in an effort to
tie the score, but hard luck dogged
their efforts, when time and again
scores seemed practically certain. The
fine playing of Oyler, Taylor and
especially Ryan was a feature of the
period, and the Dal players had a
decided edge throughout the session,
only the stellar goaltending of Norris
for St. Mary’s staving off scoring.
The Saints’ defence was especially
strong, and proved a decided factor
in stopping the Dal rushes. The
Tigers although not playing as fine
a defensive game, nevertheless had a ,
fairly strong combination in Bent,
McDonald and Connor, though Bent
and Connor drew the censure of the
referee, Bent going to the cooler three
times, and Connor once, for the only
penalties of the game, for tripping and
illegal checking. McDonald turned in
a good exhibition, showing up better on
offensive than defensive work.

The teams lined up as follows:

Dalhousie—Goal, Purtill; defence,
McDonald, Connor, Bent; forwards,
Taylor, Oyler, Coleman, Bishop, Robb,
Ryan.

St. Mary’s—Goal, Norris; defence,
Grant, Findlay, McDonald; forwards,
Fullerton, Carroll, Fleming, Sheeh
Nelson, Pender.

|

 

  

 

Law Society

The Law Society held a most enjoyable banquet last Saturday evening
at the Nova Scotian Hotel. The
President, Mr. Don Grant, presided.
The guests of honor were, the Hon.
Pr. B: Bhigh, K. €. and Mr. J.C.
MacKean. Both Mr. Bligh and Mr.
MacKean spoke interestingly and in
structively of their experiences in the
legal profession. Dean Smith and
Professors Horace Read, Vincent MacDonald and John MacQuarrie were
present. The committee in charge,
Messrs. Red Foster, Whit Cameron
and Jack Miller are to be congratulated
for managing a most successful function.

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

COUPLE $3.00 - SINGLE $2.00
  
    

    

jazette

Colleg Papef tn Artesia.” *

4

      
  
  

t
/

 

-_ ta i a Se Td

al one
ee eT
= oe EE
* _—

869, ‘The
‘ PSS e + Cindy ar ‘ catty
Bice. « Editor: $6

r .
e a
i «
. 72
: —_

 

  

Managing Editors:

a os ees
i - 7 7
+ ‘a ff

pl F

Ta _ THOMAS D. MacDONALD, B. A, THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295

. ‘£2890 WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
’ i Wagner Beene pnt aes re Sey te ee Associates:

- ‘i H. B. CHANDLER
eet LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.
eet DANIEL SPRY
Te Girls Sports: : Sports Editor:
' a GLADYS M1 . JOST - R. DP DUCHEMIN
i) B9T46 ~” B9603

re News Editor:
=" | -* MARGARET DORMAN
ELIZABETH MURRAY

* RUTH CRANDALL Asst. Business Manager:

CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.
B2436

 

Proof Editors:
AARON ZIVE, B. Se.
EDWARD B. HIGGINS

 

 

 

 

4 - PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB&SON, 7-9-Il BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.
i, ;

t gy Shs A TOPIC OF THE MOMENT.

The Canadian student publications that recently amused

themselves by asking embarassing questions about the C. O. T. C..,
have at last received signal recognition. They have attracted the

>; attention of no less a personage than the lofty author of ‘Topics of
‘e the Day” in the Dalhousie Review. True, the critic finds only
ie ~ “9 certain desultory interest” in the controversy, but fortunately
ee. * this does not prevent him from devoting several platitudinous
~ _ pages to it. He finds the matter to be ‘without inherent imporae ~ tance, and the answers to be devoid of either wisdom or learning;”

~ but then, as all students know, wisdom and learning are exclusively

F _ professorial possessions. However, despite some traces of academic
et philistinism, the critic’s article is well worth reading. One can

| “forgive everything, for that last line of his, where, in speaking of

- the C: O. T. C. apologists who emphasize the necessity of training

_ troops with a view to possible emergencies, he suggests that the
ey ».motto ‘‘Be Prepared’’ is a very appropriate one for Boy Scouts.

eee? Ee

Byte hk RAY RECAPTURING OUR SOCIAL WHIRL.

‘4 if. 7

 

"Last week the Gazette published a vigourous letter from the pen

. ef Mr. W. G. Stewart, President of the Student’s Council, setting
+. forth a-matter, in some ways nugatory, yet possessing considerable
significance for the social life of Dalhousie. The writer's general
_ theme was a definite deprecation of the ever-increasing number

-. of college dances that are being held outside the university pre» Cinets. Not so long ago, such a thing was utterly unknown. But

ise @

mo | ly, ‘the inadequate facilities provided on the campus, together
Aa Sots WR i the more suitable, not to say sumptuous, surroundings of the
Joga hotels, have induced the various societies to stage their formal
_ ?» functions at these downtown centres. |
_.___In many ways, the present custom is deserving of captious

  
 

  
     
  

__ éfiticism, and Mr. Stewart has himself lucidly elucidated some
are _ of the outstanding objections. From a purely materialistic point

of-view, the average per capiia cost of the hotel dances is far too
“high. This, of course, is a difficulty which cannot be easily overcome, and the result is that the ordinary student, since he is not an
_ Over-opulent person, finds himself rather restricted in seeking
_terpsichorean amusement. Moreover, it is a moot question whether, by making these functions exclusively formal, we do not lose
a great deal of the essential value attached to the social whirl.
ee ‘The aim of university dances should be to include as many of the
: students as possible, to encourage a free intermingling of everybody
im attendance, and by this to promote a widespread acquaintance
‘among the undergraduates. But under the current regime, only a

fraction of the thousand persons at Dalhousie can afford to participate in all the college entertainments. This is not as it should be.

It seems to us that if in the future, the various societies could

a

eae,

Te agree to use the new gymnasium for their dances, and at the same
time make them less expensive and more informal, a definite gain
* would be made for the social life of our university.

a zy .

4 THE EDUCATION OF CHARACTER.

There is an old, old maxim attributed to the ancient Greek
sage Heraclitus, who once declared that ‘“‘man’s character is his
fate.’’ How essentially true this statement is, hardly needs to be
pointed out; history has multiplied instances beyond measure, and
everyday life vindicates it ceaselessly. Continually we are called
upon to witness the pitiful sight of some poor mortal degraded by
the inherent weaknesses of his own personality. Constantly within
our selves we feel the vulnerability of certain inner flaws, or momentarily become the victims of deep-hidden and devastating traits of
our animal nature. These dangerous beasts which lurk in each of

p. us must be overpowered, least eventually they overcome us. And
the conquering of them is what we call the education of character.
me _ Noone realized the importance of this phase of human developi ment more than the famous historian W. E. H. Lecky. In a fine
_ Passage on one occasion put the matter thus:

“Of all the tasks which are set before man in life, the
education and management of his character is the most
important, and in order that it should be successfully performed, it is necessary that he should make a calm and
careful survey of his own tendencies, unblinded either by
self-deception which conceals errors, and magnifies ex: cellencies, or by the indiscriminate pessimism which reere fuses to recognize his powers for good. He must avoid

mes the pessimism which would persuade him that he has no
power over his nature, and he must also clearly recognize

ed

  

x ‘ . ° e > >
S that this power is not unlimited.’
- r * =. > nl c = 2 - * : ,
7 a : is. the process of self-scrutiny and self-examination that
f rt r,

ss, Const ne initial step on the road towards full self-realization.
me | As E Burke said, “It is the perogative of man to be in a
il great degree a creature of his own making.’’ Weak persons blame
s _ their failures on bad luck or fate; the strong man admits his own
ibility, and girding up his loins, advances determinedly to
: \mong all the treasures which can fall to any
individual, the will to foster a strong, purposive, fearless, inde_ pendent character, is perhaps the most valuable of all. And college
ovide are ebpertunity. for that will to blossom

o some semblance of a full-blown, mature personality.

 
  

Another Suggestion.
The Wets Have It. |
What of a new Frenc

— |The Wets Have It. —

*

COMMENT

436

i?
ep

 

i ie

h Governénent

After a twelve year period of experimentation with the prohibition of
alcoholic beverages the electors of
Finland have emphatically denounced
the policy and asked for its repeal.
The recent referendum offered the three
alternatives—retention ofthe dry law,
its modification to light wines and
beer, and its total repeal. Fully
70.9% of the votes were cast for repeal‘
28.1% registered dry, while the middle
course, oddly enough, appealed to a
mere 1.4%. Perhaps more _ striking
still is the fact that 66% of the women
voting cast their ballots against Prohibition,

Pronounced ‘‘Drys’’ of other lands
will hardly derive much comfort from
the Finnish abandonment of the waterwagon, legally speaking. We note that
American organs and organizations
on the dry side are busily engaged in
pointing out the fundamental differences between Finland and the United
States and between their respective
peoples. The inference, of course, is
that so far as Americans are concerned
the action of Finland doesn’t mean a
thing. One can probably read into
such plebiscites as this just about what
one wants to read, but for all that the
dry element will have a difficult task
in interpreting Finland's action to their
benefit.

The Finnish reversion to legalized
drinking leaves but two countries
holding the fort for Prohibition—Prince
Edward Island and the United States.
And in the latter we note one of the
latest plans for the solution of the
problem, and one perhaps not so very
new at that. The issue, Mr. Al Smith
suggests should be turned over to the
discretion of the individual States to
which sphere of government it formerly
and more properly belongs.

Another Suggestion.

While the various Empire governments are preparing their policies for
submission to the coming Ottawa
economic conference there is much
newspaper talk and speculation as to
what those policies be. Recently the
Morning Post re-suggested one way in
which the Dominions might repay the
United Kingdom for imperial preferences granted in the new tariff.
The Dominions, this London daily
suggest, might absorb some of the
surplus population of the Old Country.

The Post founds its proposal on the
argument that unemployment in Canada and Australia ‘‘may be due to
lack of population rather than a surplus
of population.’’ Assuming, as does the
Post, that Canada cannot expect
prosperity until its population reaches
fifteen millious we might expect that

the Dominion would weleome ~ this] ime.
delightful way of paying. her bill for

market preferences. However wé venture to suspect a hitch in the scheme.

If the Empire were tomorrow suddenly placed under a master control
it is quite probable that some such
migration of Britishers would ‘be ordained. But as conditions are at present we imagine that most Canadians
would be appalled at the prospect of a
sudden influx of men needing employment. Assuming the immigrants to be
transported, settled in the Peace River
district, and equipped for agricultural
labour by the Land Companies which
the Post calls for, we wonder just what
the next step in their economic existence is to be. They will presumably
have to sell something, so what and
where? We have enough people in
the West now asking those same
questions.

We might suggest that the plan has
possibilities subject to a very large
“af.” If there was much, very, very
much organization and a great deal of
coordination, which all would mean a
strong central enonomic control over
the Dominion with cooperation from
the British Government, if in other
words we had a master planning
exercising control over the basic industries of our country, then such a
plan might be carried out successfully
in these hazardous times. But barring
that unlikely systematization we doubt
the feasibility of the plan on any extended scale. And anyway how many
surplus Englishmen equal a one percent increase in the Canadian quota
of British grain imports?

What of a new French Government

French govérnments come and go
with such rapidity that the world was
hardly surprised when a change oc
a . ?
curred last week, The world, however, | cyncrasies of character and his pecul-| POMS.

will be very interested to discover if
the new alignment of ministers under
Premier Laval presages any alteration
in French policy. With Lausanne and
Geneva in the immediate offing, and
such a great deal depending on the
attitude of France at those all-important meetings, the internal political
situation in the nation may ‘well be
watched,

While governments in France are so
notoriously impermanent as compared
with those of nations with bi-party
system it is interesting to note that
post-War French Foreign policy has
been very reguiar and _ consistent
Premiers and ministers have changed
but the foreign policies of all have
amounted to much the same thing.
Yet in Britain, where sudden politica
changes are out of the ordinary. these
same years have seen fundamental
changes backward sand forward between Labour and Conservative. policies. There is no doubt but that such
swit changes as that on the Geneva
Protocoi and other matters of the’ like

League anditsother members. French
policy, in contrast, has been quite
uniform, if not as high-minded from

an international viewpoint.

 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 

   
 
  
 

‘fession.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

THE

Pies

 

The Forum—A Public Utility |
Monkey Business
The Necessity for Hypocrisy

 

The Forum—A Public Utility?

In a classification of business enterprises. according to. their methods of
of administration, a Public Utility
would seem, in princinle, to be the
most widely different form a Private
Monosoly. In the practical world, however, a concern that ranks in the
newspavers- and in the speeches of
politicians as an example of the former,
is not unlikely to be in reality, a culpable example of the latter.

Some years ago a rink was erected in
Halifax—calledthe Forum. It wasconstructed half attheexpense of the pople
of Halifax and half at the expense of
the Provirice of Nova Scotia. It is
managed by the Provincial Exhibition
Commission whose membership is comprised of gentlemen in «responsible
positions all over the Maritimes.

Among the functions of the Forum
(in: common with most other rinks)
is that’ of providing’ skating facilities
to the public. .The Forum is equipped
with machinery for making artificial
ice, and is therefor at jno time’ dependent upon cold weather: The least
that the Halifax Public may expect,
then, of those in charge of the Forum
includes:

(1) Good Ice.

(2) Good Music.

(8) Good Clothes Checking -Service,

(4) A reasonable number of seats

and benches for use while changing
into and out of skating boots.

Do the people of Halifax (and among
them Dalhousie Students get what is
due them in these respects? We think
that all who patronize the Forum and
who exercise: any discrimination in
these matters witl agree that. they
usually get:

(1) Poor ice.

(2) Rotten Music.

(3) Indifferent Checking service,
(4) Conspicuously insufficient ben
ches and seats to accomodate them in
changing out of and into skating boots.

The management of the Halifax
Forum in these respects is a disgrace
in itself, a disgrace to the Commniission,
a disgrace to the City, and a disgrace
to the Province. And yet the Forum

~

is owned by the Public—A Public

Utility.

It is most unfortunate that at a
when purely capitalistic administration. has shown itself grossly incompetent throughout the world; that
at a time when people are looking for
their salvation to some degree of
Government or public regulation—it is
most unfortunate’ that at such a time
there should exist in Halifax so unsatisfactory’ an example’ of a Public
Utility.

Monkey Business.

It has been ordained that the members of Class '32, the expectant graduates of this.year in Arts. and Science,
will carry canes. That reminds us of
the limerick we heard recently.

Each little monkey who’s taught
In the college of Simian Thought,
Be it he, or ashe,
When it wins its degree,
Proudly carries it’s tail in a knot.

We have always believed | that
measures like cane-carrying for conspicuousness were laid aside when

initiation had purged the aspirant of
his youthful follies. If the members of
Class 32 insist upon this practice, however, we suggest that they at least be
as sensible as the little monkey, and
keep away from the cane until the
degrees are safely framed,

The Necessity for Hypocrisy.

No profession is perfect. The Student in Dentistry and in Medicine as
well as in Law must somewhere in his
course come upon practises that make
him carry on for a little time with his
tongue in nis cheek. At such times
the necessity for hypocrisv is manifest.

Every living person has his idioiarities of feature. Our friends are
no exceptions,
cordial and unrescrved friendship a
certain amount of discreet dissimilation is a requisite. The friend may
have a bulbous pronoscus; you must
allow yourself. no facial eypression
that would conflict with an opinion
on his part (if he had such an opinion)
that his nose conformed to all the
requirements of Grecian classicism
He may laugh like a hyena or cough
like a hippopotamus. It is essential to
your friendship that your face remain
always as tranquil as if laughed and
coughed with all the nice discretion
prescribed in a book on Etiquette.
These considerations are requisites in
friendship. They are taken for granted. H a friend is worth ‘having, his
defects-are worth overlooking,

The same principle ‘ought to be
applied by every student and by every
professor in his relations with his proIf. a profession is» worth
being embraced, it deserves all the
courteous treatment that ome would

jhave proved disconcerting to the| bestow upon a friend. The attittide

that seems to say ‘‘And that’s Medicine for you! Aren’t you proud of it”

(Continued on page 3.)

 

Yet even in the most| game should be played.

 

 

January 20th, 1932

 

PORTRAITS
AND
CARICATURES ©

Harold MacGillivary Parker.

     

FROM OUR”
CONTEMPORARIES

* .
pe |
* =)

—_——_--—— ——

 

Students and Poverty.

Harold, or Hardy, as he more com| monly called, came here years and
| years ago from New Germany. Quiet
and urassuming, he is however, yery
popular in the circle in which he moves
—round and round. He is slignt and
dark haired, resembling Vic Oland in
his more dramatic moments, but’ a
veritable towef of strength ‘of the
footba!] team which he hes captained
for the’ past three years. He is also
rather shy where women are concerned
but he can be a true friend as many
a Haller knows. He is a brilliant and
conscientious student and his seat in
the Library’ -is seldom vacant, ashe
spends most of his time there poring
over the records.*of the Dalhousie
Bureau of. Research.,, He graduates
this year in: Law; Properties being his
best subject.

Hardy's modest manner conceals
surprising executive ability. He is
president of the Dalhousie Chapter of
the W. C. T. U., Assistant Dean of
Women at Kings and’ convenor of the
Refreshment Committee at French
Club. He is a model boy and his
friends will not hear a word against
him. If a report comes ir that he has
been seen throwing snowballs at President Stanley they deny it vehemently.
“It's a lie” says Raymond MacCarthy
with tears in his eyes, “If you don't

The Class Stenographer?

The Fifty-fifty Plan.

Students and Poverty.

Students and faculty at Yale have
recently been forcibly reminded of the
financial crisis overhanging the continent, the ardent declarations of politicians to the contrary notwithstanding,
A bank at New Haven which numbered
among its clients a large number of
students and staff, and the university
as well, crashed leaving anyone with
money in the bank in immediate
poverty. At the University of Illinois
the same process has come about,
The university has had to lend money
to many students who wire so hard
hit by the closing of the banks that
they would otherwise have had to
drop their year, How far such a state
of affairs will go has been the theme
and incidentally a source of livelihood
for magazine writers for a long time
past. Perhaps-another Henry George
will arise from the tanks of these
collegiate victims and reduplicate *‘Progress and Poverty,” or some American
Marx may be calling us all to unite

ee Ce

yeats hence. In the meantime we|like this country go back where you
. . - f 7 : ;

might be well advised to buy up one | Came from. : ;

or two’ of the old-fashioned socks to Hardy’s favorite literature is the

Christian Science Monitor, his favorite
pastime is motoring, and his favorite
song is ‘‘Keep the Home Fires Burning.’

take care of the superflous coin,

The Class Stenographer?

When all plans had. been laid by a
University of Toronto student. with
business ambition to distributed typewritten copies of lectures to those who
could pay for them, some senior members of the faculty objected to the idea
and= a perfectly sound scheme was
frustrated. A stenographer was to be
present at the lectures and do the
writing for the students... The notes |
would then be mimeographed ‘and
mailed to each subscriber at the end
of the: week, at a fee of five cents a
lecture. All the professors whose lectures were to be thus distributed favour
ed the plan. There does not seem to
be any valid objection to the practice,
and no doubt many students would
appreciate it here at Dalhousie especiaJly in large classes where the professors
are addicted, to the habit of dictation.
Such gems of: wisdom as are usually
contained in notes could be accurately
collected by a class stenographer with
a knowledge of shorthand and an ear
for dialects.

The Fifty-Sfty Plan.

What: is commonly known as. the
fifty-fifty plague is raging more or less
in most of our Canadian universities,
The plague appears to be at peak in
the University of Saskatchewan, probably because of the extreme agricultural difficulties of the West in the
last two years. The plan follows that
good old principle of Dutch treat
applied to dates between males and
females,’ The strangest feature of the
matter, according to The Sheaf (U. of
S.} is that the ‘‘even Stephen” clubs
have ail been organized by men, At
first glance it appears that the man is
the one to profit by such a scheme.
Moreover (says Even Stephen) since
women are demanding equality in all
fields of activity, it is only fair that they
should carry their share of the financial]
burden (and anyway they probably
do it that way in Russia}. But, argues
The Sheaf, if men surrender the right
of paying the way they 1ose one of their
greatest privileges. If a girl pays for
part of the date she should be able to
make dates with as much freedom as
aman. Theresult would be that many
males who now have small difficulty
dating the little woman would be left
sitting around the kitchen.stove, waiting for the telephone to ring. But
after all thc problem is as old as history
and Aristophanes in the Ecclesiazusae
proved beyond a shadow of a doubt
that the present convention is the
safest one for such a dumb animal as
man.

 

Dalhousie Review

During the past week the Editors
have been glancing over. the last issue
of the Dalhousie Review, and, although
no formal review is attempted, a few
comments are ventured here,

“On Living in a House,” by Dr.
E, W. Nichols is alone worth the price
of the issue. Our pen is not enough
subtle to describe the whimsical appeal!
of the article. .You won't. be sorry if
you read it for yourself. Dr. R. A.
MacKay writes upon ‘‘The Politics of
Disarmament.’’ The writings’ of Dr.
MacKay in pamphlets and in magazines have been disseminated so widelt
during the last year and under such
reliable auspices that the name of the
author is a quarantee of quality; but
if you still insist that the proof of the
pudding is in the eating you'll agree
that Dr. MacKay has not in this work
fallen below his reputation,

“The Economic Development of
Empire’ was written by Sir Robert
Hadfield, one of these people whose
well-known-ness makes you feel as if
you had lost touch with things. Sir
Robert believes that the white man’s
burden is to nourish the white man and
says so with refreshing frankness in a
challenge to Liberalism. ‘‘Mr, Zero
of Canada”’ is a charming little sketch
of a poor but philanthropic French
Canadian who keeps the largest city
in the United States guessing, ‘Walt
Whitman and Anne Gilchrist’ is interesting if you like that sort of thing.
“Dr. Samuel Johnson Views our Poets”’
is well written, (We're taking these
up in the order in which they occur to
us). Cutwitting the Mosquito will recall
to many with a pang of regret, the
author, the late Dr, W, H. Hattie, of
whose painstaking work the article
is typical. ‘‘French Canada: Its Survival” is an interesting study of the
French minority that. retained its
traditions and customs in the face
of great odds for so many years to be
weakened finally through its own
adaptability. We thought that previous issues had about exhausted
historic interest in P. E. Island, but
along comes our Archivist, Mr. Harvew
with another instructive little account
of pioneer days that must be yery
interesting to ali good Islanders. On
Poetry we have always been loathe to
comment of the four peoms, ‘Exile,’’
‘The Highway,”’ “Fog Horn,” and
‘‘Baconian Paraphrases”’ we liked ‘‘The
Highway” best. The discussion of
“Current Magazines’ has attained its
usual high level. ‘Topics. of the
Day” need.to be read to be avpfeciated.
_ We congratulate the Editors on an
issue that, through pre-eminent. excellence in some parts rather than
through general average quality is of
great merit. I

 

 

The Pine Hill Basketball League is
now in full swing providing the boys
with a measure of relaxation from the
strain of the recently introduced ‘ping
John A. Y. MacDonald has
undertaken to show just how this iatter

 

 

It pays to buy Quality-
The real test of tailoring is how it stands up
under daily wear.

Hyde Park Clothes

retain their shape during long service—-they
have lots of swank and are styled to Satisfy . .
the most discriminating buyer. : - of 2 ts

HYDE PARK CLOTHES are sold by
_ SHANE’S MEN’S WEAR SHOP ©
_ 30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD _ |

Discount of 10% to students

 

»t

+ =

 
 

 
ee ee 4 =

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Page Three.

U.K. C. NOTES The Student Forum Ene Snedewer
A Column devoted to Comment and Controversy

 

 

 

   
   

 

    
  
  
  
 
    
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
    
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
    
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
     
  
   
    
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
  

    

   
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
     
   
  
 
    
   
  
  
    
  
  
 
 
    
   
 
   
    
     
   
  
    
   
 
 
   
      
 
   
  
  
   
   
     

 

‘ey Swe Fic = ; ; ro . - ave: :

eee Wes) One should not rush to condemn
Bigs Geeree shock produced by entirely all note-taking. Examples of |). Ata recent meeting of. the student There is no truth to the rumor that

“been absorbed almost com.| 20te-taking to great advantages can |\body-of the college, the date of the next Delphine Wallace has gone into mourn
by the youthful and vigorous be easily pointed out. However, when ||King's dance was fixed at Thursday, Halifax, N. S., make the man” is an oldsaying but aling for her beloved side-kick Fran

who were’ fortunate- ‘eriough notes ‘are'detated,’ hour. after -hour,|February 4, . King’s dances have be- Jan. 16, 1932. very true one. Huntly. But we do believe, however,

‘e¥ su $

      

 

  

» the privilese of writing them | l¢™™ im and-term out: ;the.monctony }icome so popular this year that it is Another point brought forward by| that the light snow which fell a week
0 ee eubot ie eo broken -only bya late-comer to class; |expected that a jarge number a The Editor, Mr, Stewart is that only those blessed ago last Sunday completely buried
ngetr, The many evils, wrongs the enthusiasm) of» the: ‘best, ee ‘attend. The committee in charge ff Dalhousie Gazette. with an abu dance of worldly goods} THE city of Parrsboro. It was only

es, and what you will, that’ the has well nigh disappeared and he wil ithe affair will be named by Sta may attend the dances. To remedy/last Saturday that word filtered thiual believed were dealt out ‘to do well if-hemanilests»its.absence-only | Tanton, chairman of the body. In| pear Sir:— this condition he suggests holding as|rough to civilization that our Fran

by : yawn... One hour of such! cua
AS det ~., as far as education' is concerned is}
EP ec But, ot apa oe entirely - wasted. Textbooks have been
weer inti aa Tented di ent thane | Selected for clearness:of exposition and
leds biased aiey eas ei at weuctatly reliability'and they cost:much less than
Dewhav ‘is’ Wrong with’ Medicine?” |? Whole year’s tution fee.
expect that ‘an intelligent’ reply| One could ‘go on picking flaws in any
. be ‘given to the query, One may | teaching which does not . follow, the
I? ask this question’ because’ the | latest findings in the science of peddgoumber of those failing to get the|gy. One could reasonably, say. that
ecessaty pass mark, especially in the] the responsibility for this high percen= st and second years, in the face of] tage of failures must, be borne,, in part
___ the appatent facts; s¢emis to be greater }at least, by, the faculty of the school,
than it should be. ‘Why, then, ‘are |evem if’one: admits that’ the’ drudge
e so many failures? When’one Has] ¢att_niuddfe ‘thru. . The criticism that
e ied these failures, what ‘other | should ‘be*apphied, ‘if it'{s ‘applied Cor_ ‘eriticism can oné make of medicitie,|} rectly, is that the tducation of ‘the
__ as’stich, at this university?’ |’ ‘| pupil is not helped by the teacher, in

addition to making arrangements for] Mr. W,G, Stewart's letter in last | many dances as possible in the new] was alive and kicking as usual. Three
the dance, sevetal other matters were] week's Gazette has aroused so much gym. It is certainly too bad that] cheers!

discussed, including food and the!comment that I venture to ask for| we all can’t be rich, but anyone who

wearing of gowns at lectures, &® |space in your publication in which to] wants to attend a dance should be ——-— - —

aw st ree express the viewpoint of those on the} able to save three dollars on cigarettes

» King’s College basketball team play-| opposite side of the question. and milkshakes the week before. Is! House phones have been installed at
ed their first game of the season at the} “Mr, Stewart demands a lessening in}the number of automobiles limited | Shirreff Hall—a different ring for each
Yon Saturday evening against the Y the number of hotel dances, on the | because everyone can't afford one?| floor
Seniors, losing: out by ae scoreé/ of piea that the expense is too great for} Must everyone eat bacon and eggs F
56, to 18. Despite the one-sided score, ! most students. He states that on this|for Christmas dinner because a great
King's ‘made a good, showing with a] account the majority of people attend| many people are unable to afford turSead ot are and NOL ed fifteen only one dance a year—the dance|key- That mav be fair to the unminutes of the game led in the scoring: | jyst by their own group. fortunate but it is hardly just to the| 7 eo. “the me

The ‘King’s team are entered in the ; The hotel ance ate expensive, but| poor rich people. Must Sona attend per laes Eppa Recustone ‘at, (eete
intermediate section of the Halifax] <9 are most other amusement, and it is} gym dances wnile he prefers to go to a

City League, and will face the season}, fact that boys who go to dances at|hotel? The hotels are much more} Soon every one knew that he had
j with a strong outfit, all generally attend at least half those | comfortable, they have an atmosphere | come to inform Beth that R. Gordon
a hee he given during the course of the year.| which goes to make a successful; the Harris, Life Sec’y of Class ’31 and

in ‘the past few years were ‘again

They provide real amusement
for the girls too—par example—Ross
Morrison drove up to the Hall, and
five minutes later the basement ring
sounded throush the halls—“O’m, said

 

RO A Pits ia | wu ts oun H class periods, pal | King’s hockey team, which put up| Moreover it is perfectly natural to|catering is attended to by the staff.| Assis. Deputy Purser of the Lady
- _., Adverse. criticism, on the part of the Veh el is t ; {ino ' ‘ i f ‘ h such a surprisingly strong showing attend the dance at which one’s friends No matter how fine the new vm is, it Somers, had atrived in port—police
F students, is generally small, in amount’ This. inadequate explanation of the; against the fast St. Mary’s outfit and are present, The place at which one’s | cannot hope to compete with hotels in unifom,brass buttons and all.

and degree, as.farias the clinical years} failures must -be-supplemented by ‘the;
er are concerned. _ There are’ some com- pointing out of certain unfairnesses.
__ plaints'but perfection.on the instrictiye|| which many students feel) ‘*Why de*

side is no, more probable than absence'| mand, that a, student, because he fails
of “‘crabbers”: on, the ‘students’, part./| to pass in half his examinations at the’
For this reason, destructive criticism||end of the first. semester, should leave

the Nova ,Scotia Technical. College, | circle of acquaintances is not a dance,|thisrespect. The last gym dances were
will go up against Dalhousie in the your collection of dance programmes] absolute failures financially because
intercollegiate league next Tuesday at} wil) show practically the same names| people preferred to save their money er ee

the Forum, and an exciting game is in| on every programme, you cannot force | and go to the hotels. You cannot force

prospéct, as the teams should be well people to be friendly. Bring everyone | gym dances on Dalhousie and I sincere- Five years ago, during a lécture on
matched. in Dalhousie together at a dance and ly hope that the Student Council will Permutations and Combinations.

-_ will be confined mainly to the theor.et-| the university? As it-for the pode ae Paap ta eaters .,,| they will spend the evening with their}not attempt to do so. By all means .
eal years. Can failures there, be ade-| Own, good? If.so, why, not ree ad «21S Another badminton tournament will | own groups. let us have the informal Student Murray Macneill (to very sleepyi r quately explained? i Pvt _}@ portion of the tuition he has paid for) be held in the college gymnasium, start- Mr. Stewart states more boys stay} Council and Freshie-Soph dances in|!ooking male student)—'‘How many

; ies ja full yéar’s instruction?, A .cheque
* ‘ m3 This may be more or less difficult bi is more tangible than, a letter of advice,
do, No explanation can be definitely | However, apart from the financial as
___ said to apply to the particular case.) ject, does not the individual who gets
The facts are known only to’ the in-) jlucked badly deserve a second ‘chance?
___ structor and the writer of the paper.|| jr space’ and convertion ‘permitted,
On many occasions the student himself, many of the most successful. doctors;
__ doubts the value of his answer—apart | in other places as well as these provinaltogether from the opinion the pro-| ces by the sea, could be cited.as having
‘ a. fessor may have of it. Forgettin this| suffered many plucks, and, repeated |
difficulty, we plunge into the midst of | years, when efforts to discourage their
— things. *’ | taking medicine -were not Pp peerens.
. ore sr et um- lways tell definjtely in
4 n the first place, why does the num-| No one can alway }
1 es of failures, appear te be too large? |four months, or in fown) years,,,.the
_ -—s«Ft. has been general conversation] eligibility of a particular. individual
i many parts. of these Maritime] for the practise of medicine. And to
___ provinces. that the number of applica-| the individual, his Own casei'is ‘most
fc jons received each year for entrance |important.! Also, there!seems to:be no
into. first year. medicine, at this uni- definite regulations with i whieh the
versity, runs up into the hundreds. | student can become acqtainted. One
vi The truth of this statement cannot be| man may have two plucks but allowed
ca ere cies ly | to write supplementaries. “Anoéfthér for
= vouched for, but, if it ts true, 1t 18 only is: i i Heil: : : : is one of fiction with now and then, an
ms Jogical. to suppose that preference, or | 10 apparent Teason 1s denied. this: : i ‘that the progam wil! be an interesting Be a as BN ca ete
_-—s admittance, is given to those who have | May be enied even, the, pipvilege A} and entertaining one. Its Raita -nuciaax Gell ax moder.
_. fulfilled the entrance requirements Fepeaqng ee. smn PR otek and It reproduces the best short stories of
 - and have stood highest in their qualifi- | some ean’ repeat) ad anfinitum,’ > h Ca Kak wetitera ot all. aces and mun
ts une The fact that Dalhousie is a | is fair not even to the University. ; € _ st writers of all ages an an}
Pe ae ess - : toe e565 oo P. eree ty : ongues.
Maritime University, receiving most) Further criticism can be made of}the post-Christmas term at Alexandra The Golden Book ia printed’ inthe
of its endowment and support from] te motivation employed’ to get stu+ Hall. The affair will take the form of Uiriiecd States, aut is atsuably. free from
the Maritime eos eee eat dents to -study. Naas ve noid in shes naka dance, which will be held ccs; tetas ‘Occvasicaalixt va’ eiort
_—s aeceptance o ¢ Maritime &' Nf | for use.of the. ‘feartomplex’ but ivhen ug (a5 4 aed) 9 ee story or allegedly humourous skip by
AY in the case where numbers are limited, it works a group of students into fever — an tinauiens: pee creeps in with,
ity ing the qualifications are. 4p-}ish anxiety in which éptimum efficiency King’s students were honored Sun- ingly, little justification, but on
a dish a ” ; Cc th 7 : ; < tey da r I th spr f Arch- seemingty, 1 ej On, ,
7 ees the same. Care, then-jin studying fory ndy writing examina | Cay morning by the presence o the average, we-endorse this magazine
| hi foweercined in selecting those who shall | tions, is prevented, little commendation | bishop: Worrell, Primate of All Canada, wholeheartedly.. It certainly ought
-‘hegin the study of medicine, A high| can be given. to-its’ use, Is it any in the college chapel, when Archdeacon to exercise a greater appeal than
gtandard has therefore been set» Up. | wonder that some: of the: more;suscep- Vroom conducted the service. His mumy of the sclentiic jotwnals with
- _. When what happens? One term 38) tible to nervous excitement Blow up Grace Arehbishop, Worrell delivered which the library has been in the past
| ‘spe t in the school, and of late years, | under the added strain? ‘The novice fan. inspiring. and interesting sermon] 4 oqed and which not even the proa about a half dozen rns - first | j5 always fearful enough: without g}Which was greatly appreciated by
a? i ar as oe
‘year, are shot out for always as stage being set. .

. ‘King’s students and others who at- fessors ecemi to read.
Dalhousie is concerned. Another term . » dae act enek Pid tended the service.

og sses, andgenerally another six follow |; Closely.” associated’) with this fear |,

‘where others have already trod.' Over}@nvironment ts the conflict between,
jeorne these entities, “Student, Body and

nty-five per cent are forced to leave, Passin Blow - - | .
Best year Because they J} (cmtneiiompax2) || No Mistake

ing within the next few days. An away from dances because they do|the gym, but let us also have the more| Chances are there of making a royal

unusually large number have’ entered, | not own evening clothes. This in| formal dances in the hotels and you, flush in a poker game?”

and it is likely that it will be even more | undoubtedly the case but why should | will satisfy the great majority of the (V. S. S.)—"Not ‘a ‘chance’ in the

of 'a success: than was thie first meet, | jt be so, Let any boy with the neces-| students. : world. ar." oa

held *during’ the pre-Christmas term.| sary courage, who does not own or is} Thanking you, sir, I am, aT

cl | unable to borrow the proper clothes Very truly, Note, If you don’t believe that

A tng's badmintip team’ of twelve | come toa dancein informal dress and ask Helen Biden,

members will compete in one of the] jf he js the right kind of boy I venture CONSTANT READER, |

local city leagues this winter, and’ the | ¢, say that he will enjoy the evening

selection of the team will depend upon in spite of his attire, ‘‘Clothes do not

the' showing the players will make in

the‘conims: tournament.’ Several ood | —————_____ A MATTER OF TASTE?

feenty beine developed, and’ it is :

expected that Kinoe’s will have a strong L 'b M 3

representation in thé league. | I rary ag 7 ateca Winchesters, of course
‘The first meeting of the Haliburton azines rr

Club since Chtistmas wii! be held in the

ning? The Picdige praia Cae ws A magazine we would like to see a A

Pane ac He libtary’ shélves "ia: the
Beta et pte) and the Seon, bear aie
tary, H. H.’ Dysart, has announced gasene. é

)

 

  
 

 

 

‘This é€vening' the King’s Co-Eds are
| staging the first of their receptions for

 

  
  

/

Ff
fi
.

 

 

 

 

 
   
 

_ >

. E ; aiid

{wbtbepenetetvtrlieny oe & 4 ars.
x\ Ny - a ~ thay
SENS . . " m us a 4 3

VS

   

De?

 

a ee cannot pass| Faculty.” Sometimes it scemis to riv
a reas | The ore to be | that .of ‘A haa gus , BOWNs f Why’
+ ; ; ilures in a|Should there be this ‘‘war;’ when, intoo high TE etna failed? | dividually student and_ professor are
% selecte StenP : on such amicable and co-operative
Several conclusions can be drawn. | terms? Competition between the two
The ‘individual student _ “ — groups ‘that ‘should he ‘characterized. eee eels tone

ability to pass. If he has the ability,|}\ the maximum of co-operation ig [Professor in Law who in elect, says at “The Green” where
- ihe has not done a reasonable amount] ,6¢ conducive to good work individus| with contempt, | That's the Law—your : e ;
of work. Or, the professor plucks him ally-og either, side.-. Upon, those whi} profession " ‘Js’ just ds ‘unethical and every effort is made to give
on principle. The “last one often) pave played the roles of béth student} indelicatée as he who. miocks a blemish satisfactory service..........
explains when all others fail. This| and teacher lies the responsibility forfOM a human countenance. ‘If improveplanation puts all the ee the solving of this problem. ee ek be ce then et it oe Th G L t rm
ee aD «oe! : a man 4. EA Ret. _| effect not - with. r t wit

ha a eed ae mocks he can| , Burt it ts.easier to criticize destruc; Amcathy and agai. acd ee eureen Lante

‘ Farben edeone. But the real|tively then’ to do. It has been said) Phe benefit will be in instituting the
aSS t passing examinations. The that those who can, do, the otheng good, mot in jberating the wrong. The
end is a. a ability can pass|teach. Like other platitudes it ig docter does ot .cure an’ obsession by
in Bien See in spite of a poor|probably wrong. Perhaps someon@) poking fun "nor. ;
im a gt

instructor. _But.then drudgery fills
as the entire space that should be

TAC

XN

Winchester

CIGARETTES

  

 

 

  

‘with inflections ‘that indiéate that ; ‘
‘shame ought to be the reaction reflect You will make no mistake
only upon the professor or student by in asking friends to dine,
‘whom it is manifest. The student’ or lunch or have tea with you

 

  

¥

©) poking. fun at it nor does a lawyer
¢xplain how his client mav keep out

of litigation by laughing at his pre vious Two Mmén talking
ona Frain }

may suggest that which will bring ug
nearer een a brig Sschoohy’
, i inspirati .| from the point. of view of, the senious;
ete te ee Be aca ae energetic, thoughtful ‘discoverer ‘ink
the side of tite faculty. They are the the most, mysterious of al] professionsy
the side © : a Ae a student} Then, there will be no failures, and Pb Moku 1 for i's ike worl ant owee that
ors. ee ; id hand | one will think of anything wrong. :| 4 id c ha ancl owes the
- absorb eee as pts a as ip) consideration to his own self respect.
ut a chocolate bar. But they sho Mt xots)
be able, as teachers, to show the way ihe inte ts | a
Bo ine catent that ay profesor ait 0| "Fran Nichols ‘and Nell Pergw
: aye SF F .' tare, still getting unmitigated -| e
© superior, student must Sea fase Pike till vpeal,talent, ete. Ital
unnecessary labor to get a BOW, €S© | fortunate indeed that these two gentle+|.
Bee sreskeot tor otter! beteer (g" 22°; ap; anprepiation for such
a 2 n inte ae abe, JOr .
a taught subjects is deadened. When an 8 TR SO ee
_  jmstructor fails to point out how a rth ee : owes i
a s occurs; as far as it Is known, 3
the position of the student is in no
sway different to what the-position of an
___ @ntediluvian would be, if he could be
‘plunged into one of our modern BabyDas. This failure occurs in more
than one subject of the theoretical
wears. Can the student excuse himself
fon this account?

Blended Right!

 

torts. ‘The student andthe professor
gughttoexhibit the same consideration
for his profession. After all he has

 

 

 

Leather Goods YELLOW CAB|

; LIMITED
Portfolios, Trunks

B.614
Bags and Luggage of aint
Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours

Two travel for same as one,
KELLYS LTD More than two, 20 cents extra.
? Covers up to six.
118 GRANVILLE STREET.

Dil

£

 

 

 

     

Gur High Quality Standara
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
TUXEDO, at one

 
        

all kinds and sizes.

        
  
 

[think 11] move over
your way. What is
the most entertaining.
hing in your city?
(ANSWER) ~:

 

  
 
 

   
 

 

   
  

 

G. A. McDonald}
TOBACCONIST | |
_ Smokers Requisites of every

 

   

:
> ae |

 

 

I am sure you will be

   

 

     

  
  
  
 

      
  

 

   
     

2 ; description — MADE TO MEASURE
Lee A rE bet. ati \ a |
Howard Kennedy Had an interesting | @  . and Importe _ « Ra. ° *
phone call last week at the University | Eiht. 24% eo Eis
7 ee re ed ea anail fede CIGARS, CIGARETTES s Tip Top Tailors
BS and CCOS” -* |: |] THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

 
  
 
 

desired.

Department

You will find there the very
finest line of Sporting Goods
in the city. Everything for the

   
  

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

pre ¥,
7

a

OTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE |

 

   

more than interested in | BIRKS=
a visit to

Fraternity Pins and Class

P HIN NEYS ’ Jewellry depend largely on the

: : skill and experience of the

Sporting Goods it maker for that smartness so

7)

ee |

     

 

       

47 p.m. St. Johns vs Kings | OFF | eee eaan end Athlete. Sketches and quotations
ie ss, Intermediate Fy, ENGINEERING COURSES | & gladly submitted without
8p.m.DALHOUSIEvs¥.M.GA. }) Po IN. | OT raat
_ Senior ||| CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING | .
49 p.m. Wanderers vs N.S. Tech. - To Dathoubie Students with Engineering Diploma | : x xX X Henr y Bir ks & Sons
. aa Senior | ies Powhatan eee pete on paneer: pecans i} — o CHOCO TES LIMITED.
om” eee se diene RO rans of $70.00 cach. 1) Hl GAGE BARRINGTON ST. LA DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Reserved 35c ;' _ F.H. SEXTON, Pres. REA IOS Halifax, ‘Mi
Te z . ‘
Bes crt ,
: a Aan i.
ar kn! ae a
 

   

=

a ee euPport

   
 
  
    
   
    
 
 

 

 

Dathouste Gazette. members alike.

' Dear Sir:—

i Dalhousie opens the basketball sea
| _ gon on Saturday night next at 8 o'clock.
The game will be played against the mi
¥, M C. A. Seniors at the “Y’’ Gym- | tendance proposition.

nasium. a

o No matter how good our individual

. players are we cannot expect to win

;

vided into three classes.

ae simply sending down our own
oe EX vce The ae needs the whole* learted support of the student body in
i order to be successful at games.
i 2 The boys spend many long hours at
> ractice and make considerable sacri
fied in order to worthily represent

pF the University. The least the students

! can do is to turn out and support them
*~ at ther games. That is all the team
a asks of you.
4 The game on Saturday might well be
i. the first in the League, but it will be
one of the most important games tor
a Dal. You, the students, might forget
t the shows etc., for one Saturday night
Se and turn out to support your team.
=a The boys are willing, ee get Liban
} rve and need yo
. . barking. | were eget Time—Satur- ‘next parade, and let every

day nigat, 8 o'clock; Place—Y. M.C.A five minutes early.

unfortunates who are still

one man to “know it all.”

are those who ‘don't give

any decency, take as active
possible in its work.

it a gala

who “think thay know it all.” |
them I would say that they might
well serve as an example to those poor

C.0.T. C. Notes|

The showing at the last parade was
most discouraging to instructors and
This was due both
to the small attendance, and the motley
appearance of those who did attend.
Regarding this last, enough has already
been said by Sergeant-Major Lolley.
It remains for me to discuss the at
The absentees may be roughly diFirstly, those

To

learning.

I might even suggest, were it not
that my words may be taken as blasphemy, that it is impossible for any

Secondly,

those who know nothing about military
drill, but are afraid to come for fear of
making fools of themselves. i
need have nothing to fear, for they will
be in good company. Thirdly, there

They

a darn.’

These should never have joined the
organization in the first place, but now
that they are in it they will, if they have

a part as

Let us have a full showing at the
man be there
Remember Lord

: - Gymnasium; Oppesition—the Y.M.C. Nelson’s famous remark, “I owe all
s

A. Seniors. Let’s make
Dalhousie night.

H. A. NICHOLS,
Manager.

time.”’

 

, Senority Notes

Miss Margaret Burris entertained
, the Sigma Theta Pi Sorority at a/ne™
Fe charming tea at her home in Dartmouth | tse. c
i on Sunday afternoon. The function turn out on Tuesdays and

ber of |from 5.30 to 6.30 and on
“he ner ante Pam Owe. YM from 12.30 to 1.30. The

 

On Tuesday oe 4 ret meer
Kappa Sigma Sorority he \
areal aarte ae che home of Miss} particular nights.
Marion Morton on Robie Street, when j
the city members of the Sorority
entertained the out-of-town members.
This highly successful party was
largely attended.

After such a good practise

ing cha:lenge to the boys.

fidence is due no doubt to
perienced and able coach, Mr. Potter

my success in life to the habit of always
being a quarter of an hour ahead of

Girls Sports

Now that the new Y. W. C. A. is
finished we are expecting results from
the girls’ basketball team, as they will
now have an excellent place to pracAll concerned are expected
Thursdays

to

Saturdays
hours are

rather inconvenient for Hall girls, but
it has been arranged to have a_ hot
dinner ready for them at 7.00 on those

on Satur
day, the girls are seriously contempiati Such con
the ex
. Oyler, and also the manager of the

FROM THE

WINNERS START

ab, For 60 years the REACH Trade
Te Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
ie what your favorite sport may be
ey, we can supply you with equipment

team, Margaret MacRae.

ten years.

‘that will help you play the game wonderfully funny!

| ss W with the best that’s in you.

|__| CRAGG BROS CO.,

 

Be ie GARRICK
| || Hardware and Sporting Goods |||} _ :
Rey te: HALIFAX, N. S.

_ Jan. 20+21-22-23
THE

PRESENT

Special

| STUDENT SERVICE

a

2 | DRY CLEANING

| PRESSING
REPAIRING

—We call for and deliver —

| Cousins, Limited

PLAY

girls will just stick together.

We know

Mr. P. Oyler doesn’t think much of
our style, but we hope to improve by
the end of the season, if not in the next
Hockey is wonderful exercise, yes,—and I am sure the boys
will say the games, especially, are
Never mind—‘‘us

”?

 

Garrick Players
“Silent Witness”

Matinee Sat. Afternoon
Jan. 25th to 30th.

“Cappy Ricks”

A DELIGHTFULLY HUMANE

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Fre

Boxing

Boxing, like other phases of sport at
Dalhousie, has suffered owing to lack
of a gymnasium and equipment. Dalhousie however does not lack material
and there is no reason why we cannot
send a winning team down to St. F.
Xavier this year and bring the Phinney
Shield back to its former place. Reguiar hours (as shown by the bulletin)
have been reserved at St. Mary’s gym
for the boys to train. So far quite a
number have been turning out but we
should like to see more new material.

The Maritime Intercollegiate finals
are to be held at St, F. Xavier near the
middle of March. Probably two
weeks previous to these we will have
our own elimination tournament at
Studley to pick the team. In the
Dalhousie eliminations, ,bronze medals
with a boxing figure mounted on the
front will be given to the man coming
second, while a silver cup, engraved
with the name and weight goes to the
winner. A man winning one bout in
the Maritime finals will get an Athletic
“D.” Cups are also offered for first
and second in the respective weights.

There is only a little more than a
month to get into shape so that all
those interested should begin training

at once.
Ball

At the general meeting of the Commerce Society held recently, an executive was chosen to arrange the
details for the Millionaires’ Ball to be
held on Jan. 29th.

Under the watchful eye of George
Thompson, “Duke’’ Mahon and his
committee have already been functioning. Laurie Hart and Edith Allen
have secured the Nova Scotian Hotel
and promise us refreshments “‘eligalicious and delicatouche.”’ Gladys Jost
and ‘‘Duke’’ have shown good taste
in booking Joe Mills and a ten piece
orchestra for the gala night. George
has promised faithfully to provide the
newest and best in favours and decorations.

It seems needless to refer to the past
successes of the Commerce Society—
but let us remind you that the Millionaires Ball is THE Dance of the year.
With such a capable personnel we can
rest assured that this year’s Ball
committee will surpass all previous
dances, We'll be seeing you!

$$$.

YEAR BOOK NOTICE.

 

Millionaires’

All biographies must be in
by Jan. 20th.
All individual photos must
be taken at Gauvin and Gent. zel’s before Jan. 31st.
Let us have your cooperation.

Sports Review

 

 

 

The Bowling results are encouraging
Interfaculty games played Jan. 13
resulted in Law 1,111, Dentistry 940.
In the Arts-Commerce game, Commerce won by the close margin of 15 points,
Score 1010, 995.

 

Basketball has started out very
poorly. Whether there is a lack of
interest or whether unsuitable hours
were the cause, it is unknown. The
whole three games were defaulted.
Arts & Sc. defaulted to Medicine.
The Engineers turned out in full force
to meet the Freshmen, but owing to
an old injury to one of their team,

 

——ane ET

Addresses Club

“Is Canadian French a ‘patois?”
was the interesting topic discussed by
Prof. Ernest Martin of the Department of Modern Languages at a recent
meeting of the Halifax Branch, L’Alliance Francaise. Prof. Martin, who
lately took a three weeks tour through
Eastern Canada, states that the French
Canadian dialect is quite intelligible
to a native of France. He was at no
time forced to ask that a word be
repeated.

While French Canadians of different
localities speak varying dialects it was
suggested that such variations should
no more be despised than the various
dialectsof English. Furthermore some
French Canadians do not really speak
a dialect but ‘‘merely preserve certain
archaic forms, glorious relics of a past
generation.”

Prof. Martin was also of opinion
that Canadian French usage differed
from the Parisian to no greater extent
than Canadian English usage differs
from that of London, He concluded
that the necessity of a Nova Scotian
acquiringa knowledge of French canrot

be overemphasized.

 

Fraternity News

Tuesday evening, Jan. 12, the boys
of Phi Chi held a delightful informal
party at their Chapter house. The
rooms were strikingly decorated in
their Fraternity colours—green and
white. The music was such as only
Yale Brodie and his boys could provide.
At 11.30 novel refreshments were
served to the thirty couples present.
Dr. and Mrs. R. F. Ross graced the
dance with their company—and to
them we extend our hearty thanks.

 

On Monday evening last, Phi Alpha
Mu held a banquet at which the pledges
were inducted into the Fraternity.
The pledgees were Tobias Beeber, Sam
Rosenberg, Morris Feuerstein and
Stanlev Glube. Following the meeting
a social programme was held and Sam
Margolian was the Chairman. Julius
Rosenblum and Robert Kanigsberg
were the sveakers of the meeting. The
Social Committee were already planning the best Phi Alpha Mu dance ever,
and it is scheduled for Tuesday, January 26th, Among the new pledgees
are: Mark Brown, John Morrison.
Nate Green and Irving Pink. Negotiations are almost concluded to bring a
Chapter of a National Fraternity to
Phi Alpha Mu and thus become an
international fraternity instead of a
local.

Pine Hill Notes

A heavily-wagered narcissus growing
contest is being staged between Russell
McSween and Bram Chandler, two
asviring florists with no mean ability
in that line. So far the honours go to
Bram. McSween has found out that
freezing is not particularly beneficial
to plant growth and with this much
experience promises yet to make the
contest worth while. We see now a
very probable cause for the increased
water consumption at Pine Hill.

— i

Kitazawa—asisted by
Howe Jones and Russell McSween
gave a musical concert at Rockingham Friday night. ‘‘Kit’s’ popularity
is by no means confined to Pine Hill.

Presently, it seems, he will need a

Mitzuwo

nch Professor Physical Depart
  
   

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 RobieSt. 381 Barrington St
Telephore Lorne 2323

 

EVENINGS 35c. to 75c.
MATINEE 35c.

 

Two Popular
Regular EATON Lines

Men’s Birkdale
Leather Gloves

$2.50

Birkdale Gloves are made
from selected skins in colors of dark brown and
grey. Well sewn and silk
lined throughout for extra
warmth. One dome fastener style with outsewn
seams. A glove that will
give lots of wear and
stand up to the EATON
standard of value giving!

| Birkdale Hose for Men
oe $1.00

Fancy all wool hose in a large assortment of smart patterns containing various colors.

Pas EATON’S Main Floor

| ON,

 

 

Sizes 10 to 114

o

 

 

Menzies, they defaulted to the Freshmen. Dentistry didn’t even show up
for their game with Commerce—the
latter getting the default.

manager to select and arrange his
many engagements. And the happy
part of it allis that ‘‘Kit” remains
just ‘‘Kit.”

“= BASKETBALL.’.
Y¥.M.C. A. Saturday, Jan. 23

ST. JOHN’S vs KING'S, Inter.
8 p.m. DALHOUSIE vs Y. M. C. A. Senior
9 p.m. WANDERERS vs N.S. TECH Senior

7 p. m.

Gino bas Admission 25c - Reserved 35c

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR

Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

January 20th, 1932

eee

Dal Loses By

Narrow Margin

ment

In a hard-fought, evenly matched

Bowling. : . | battle staged in the Mount Allison
_The alleys will be available for 19-|Gymnasium on Saturday last, the
dividual and practice bowling during/Pathousie Basketball Squad opened

the following hours: Mon., Wed. and/their current season by receiving a

Sat. afternoons, 2 until 6 p. m. setback at the hands of the New
Brunswickers, 46-35. The Tigers, alInterfaculty League Games. though out-pointed were far from

Mon. Jan. 20—7—9 Commerce VS.
Professors.
9~11 Medicine vs. Th
eology.
Fri. Jan. 22. —7-9 Freshmen vs.

outplayed, and gave the Mounties a
number of anxious moments.

The Dalhousie team was minus two
of last years stars Dunc MacKenzie
who graduated in, the Spring, and

Dental. : Charlie Anderson who is unable to

9-11 Engineers vs. play due to injuries received while

Arts. playing Football. Harold Davidson,

Basketball. ’ a regular winger was also unable to make
Ist. Team Practice, Mon., Wed.,|/the trip. Frank Creighton a newFri. 7.30 P. M. +0 9.00. ; comer to the squad showed up well
2nd. Team Practice, Mon., Wed.,|in his initial bow to senior company,

Frid. 9.00 to 10.30 P. M.

Beginners Practice, Saturday 5
to 6 P. M. This period is for any
Dalhousie student wishing instruction in basketball.

as did Handler and Kennedy on the
defence and Sam Fairstein, high scorer
for the evening.

The Mounties have their usual fast
and well-balanced team; they will
undoubtedly go far in their forthcom
ing competition. Particularly in their
floor-work and their accurate shooting
did they excel.

The game as a whole was excellent,

Interfaculty games for Sat. Jan. 23rd.
2 P. M.—Theology vs. Freshmen,

3 P. M.—Commerce vs. Profs.

4 P. M.—Law vs. Arts.

Gymnastics. though both quintettes displayed some
: rough spots that will doubtless be
Students interested in gymnastics] smoothed off as the season progresses.

are requested to attend the regular

The Dal Squad opens its league scheclass periods at the following hours,

dule on Saturday evening. The line
Tues. 12.15-1.15 Noon, Sat. 2.30—|up:
4P.M.intheuppergym. (Beginners,| Forwards: Brittain, Fairstein, Creigh
as well as the advanced gymnasts,| ton, Bauld.

are urged to come!)
Boxing and Wrestling.

Centre: MacRae.

Guards: Kennedy, Handler, Clarke,
Anderson.

Manager: H. A. Nicholls.

The Tigers were entertained by the
Mount Allison Squad at a delightful
dance and party after the game.

Sth
Schedule for the New Gymnasium.

Team managers, Class representatives, etc., are requested to get in
touch with the Phys. Dir., Mr. W. E
Stirling at the Murray Homestead,
to arrange for periods in the New
Gymnasium. (First come, first ser
ved).

Office Hours, Mon., Wed., Thur.,
Fri. 10-12 A. M.

Tues. and Thurs., 2.30-5.00 P. M.

Students wishing to try-out for the
University Team are requested to
attend the regular instruction and
practice periods.

Wed., Fri. 8-9.830 P. M. and Sat.
4-5.30 P. M. (upper gym.).
Athletics.

Dalhousie track men should drop in
and try the new starting-blocks for
indoor use (Upper gym.).
Badminton.

_ The Upper Badminton court at the
St. Mary’s Gym may be used during the
following hours: Wed., Fri. 7-10.30
P. M., Sat. 2.30:5.80 P. M.

- CASINO |

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
January 21-22-23

“Reckless Living”

 

 

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

Have you seen our samples of
Dal Banners and Crests? We are
now taking orders at the following
prices:

with Dal cae a he ey hata 1.25

Large Wall Squares. .... 1.75

RICARDO CORTEZ Engineer’s Crest... 50

MAE CLARKE Médicine, Skull & Cross Bones” 750

i Arts & Seience Crests......... .50

NORMAN! FOSTER Commerce Crests. ........ _ , 60

Mon.-Tues.-Wed. Arts Crests........... . 50

Jan uary 25-26-27 Pharmacy Crests. . 50

: a 5 inch a . tire. ‘Ee
? 3 theh Bleek “rr a bie

The Road to Reno Large Shield, Old English “D”.. .35

with Small Shield.... A305

Delta Gamma Twins Marana (>

LILY AN TASHMAN Ground Hockey Crest Vie Oe

Charles Rogers... Peggy Shannon Girls’ Basketball “D”’ . 60

William Boyd..... Irving Pichel Winged Track ‘“‘D” . 65

 

 

 

 

 

 

Once a Pioneer - 
Always a Pioneer !

 

Anyone can follow but it takes courage to
blaze the trail. Our first store wide February

Furniture Sale was a fine example of pioneering
back in 1902.

Since then there have been many changes in
our mode of living but Zive’s principle of giving
the most in Value and Service has remained the]
same. That it is a sound principle has been
proven by the fact that from a very modest store
on Brunswick St. where we staged our first sale
we have grown to be Eastern Canada’s Largest
Home Furnishers occupying over forty thousand
square feet of floor space in our own building
located in the heart of the shopping section of
Barrington St., which will be thronged with
shoppers during our 30th February Furniture
Sale. We believe that it will certainly pay you to
be one of the crowd.

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes ”’
448-450 Barrington St.

Halifax, - .

 

Canada.

 

t

 
