f

7

%
bs,

 

a a 3 J
Per

é

ie

Av
+
cre}

%

sf
_¥

a
'


ea

al |»

* ;
nd

5 hs

- 7"
<=

 

:
—

Dalhousie Representative
Presents Reports

N.F.C.U.S. Meets| Radio Speaker

in Convention at

Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:— a

Through the Gazette I solicit the
opportunity of presenting to the Student Body a report of the Fifth Annual
Conference of the National Federation
of Canadian University Students held
at McMaster University, Hamilton
Ont., Dec. 28th-30th., 1931.

The importance of every student in
the university obtaining a knowledge
of the objects of the N.F.C.U.S. cannot
be over-estimated, and it is hoped that
the report set out below will achieve
that desired end so that the many
benefits of the Federation may be
entered into more fully than has been
the case in the past years. ;

Due to the heavy expense involved
in holding the Second Imperial Conference of Students in Montreal during
the summer of 1929, together with the
economic ailments under which certain
member universities were laboring it
was decided not to hold a Federation
Conference in the year 1930. Notwithstanding this unfortunate situation
the officers ably carried on, and the
Conference of 1931 saw the organization not only intact but actually expanding in its accomplishments and

ideals.
International Relations.

ue The first business brought before the

Executive Council was Canada’s posi
tion with relation to the Confederation

_ Intertaionale des Etudiants, an_or
ganization composed of the student
unions of some 42 countries including
Canada. In this regard Canada’s
attitude has always been passive feeling
that her association with the C. I. E.
was one of sentiment rather than of
practical benefit. In the report of the
representative of the N.F.C.U.S. who
attended the conference of the C. I. E.
held last summer in Bucharest, it was
pointed out that a growing feeling of
rebellion was prevalent among some of
the members which was urged on to
such an extent by a violent nationalistic
spirit that Canada could, under such
conditions, obtain no practical benefit.
The Confederation was in diametric
opposition to the objects for which
it was established. For these reasons,
and others, the N.F.C.U.S. acting on
the recommendation of the representative withdrew its membership in the
CoE.

Travel Commission.

A successful annual students tour to
Europe is one of the objects of the
Federation. During the summer of
1930 an overseas tour was organized
and conducted under the auspices of
the N.F.C.U.S. with great success. In
1931 arrangements were made for a
similar tour, but due to economic
conditions and severe competition
registration was insufficient for the
tour to be carried on and those already
enlisted were satisfactorily switched
to another party. It is felt that, with
a reasonable measure of prosperity,
it would not be difficult to make a
success of this department. No tour
will be undertaken this year.

For the benefit of students contemplating travel abroad the Travel Commission will be very glad to offer its
facilities to any Canadian University
student who has in mind travel either
to the United States or elsewhere,
whether travelling with an organized
tour or alone. Any information concerning railway or steamship rates
and travellers cheques, accommodation and travelling information in
Europe, will be gladly given by applying to Mr. A, Gordon Burns, Hart
House, Toronto, Ont.

Athletics.

The work of the Federation in the
field of athletics has been confined to
two branches, viz., the formulation of
a scheme for the co-operative purchasing of athletic equipment by all

(Continued on page 4)

 

DR. H. L. STEWART,

Whose weekly broadcasts on
current events have been achieving widespread popularity
among the radio public. Dr.
Stewart is Head of the Department of Philosophy.

Shirreff Hall
News |

 

Once more the Hall has calmed down
to the normal atmosphere and if it
were not for the trunks outside the
doors, one would hardly believe that
we had ever been away.

Talking about New Year’s Resolutions—what about this one~ The
girls of the First Floor Main have
resolved to study one hour every day
and what is more, a fine is to be imposed on those who fail to put in the
required time. A great idea—we shall
be looking for good returns in the
Spring, so don’t disappoint us, girls.

 

Christmas holidays prove disastrous
to some of the girls—too much turkey
and not enough counting of calories
caused many of them to lose their
youthful figures and now the Green
and Cameo will know them no more.
They are going on a strict Shirreff
Hall diet. Poor girls!

For the first couple of days of the
new term the Hall witnessed a regular
fashion show. Apparently Santa Claus
was very generous, as many new
frocks have been seen and we believe
there are yet more to appear.

—_

Another rumour! Shirreff Hall seems
to be turning decidedly English in its
taste—that, by the way, doesn’t ininclude hash. There are whispers of a
tea-room to be established. Tea will
be served at four o’clock (in the afternoon) in one of the larger single rooms
where the girls may sit and have
a cosy chat over the tea-cups. Orders
for tea must be in before noon. Get
them in early, girls.

 

Miss Jessie Gladwin, president of the
Hall in. 1928-29, was married to Mr.
Hugh H. Turnbull, L. L. B., Dal '29,
on Dec. 28, 1931, at the ‘Little Church
Around The Corner” in New York.
Mr. and Mrs. Turnbull! will take up
residence in Montreal, Quebec.

Going—going—gone! Auctioneer
Doone Macdougall sold the surprise
package to one of her friends for one
dollar and forty-nine cents. Imagine
the surprise when the parcel, upon
being opened, disclosed a wastepaper
basket! What a sell, and what an
auctioneer!

  

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 13th, 1932.

Reorganize Club| Dalhousie Tigers

The \Observer

Anyway, after two and a half short
months, the Freshmen know as much
as Murray MacNeil about Rule 64,
Page 46. & ,

After eight years at College, Lester
has received his first two pvlucks in
Sweeping VIII and Dusting IV. And
he thought before Xmas he’d cleaned
up everytning.

Observer has seen four students in
the librarv, absorbed in that voluminous tome, ‘Introductory Geology.”
If “Toshy’’ could only have stayed to
see the day! For the few who remain
in ignorance of the cause, ‘‘Toshy”’ has
sailed for Jamaica—doubtless to study
the voicanic structure of the Indies.
Prof. Bennett, who brought about the
Exodus from Biology I, has started his
reforms, and now there are only English VIII and Bib. Lit. left. ‘‘Back
ward, turn backward, O, Time’’!

 

 

This year’s crop of Shirreff Hall
Freshettes has suddenly become kindhearted and as a group have offered
to share their ‘‘dates’’ with the Senior
years. Their overwhelming benevolence (according to T. D., C. M. and
L. S.) is indicative of either temporary
insanity, or a New Year’s resolution
to do more studying. Our only comment—miracles will never cease!

The Halifax Skating Club held its
first session for the year 1932 on Mondey, January the 4th. These sessions
are held at the Forum on Mondays
and Tuesdays from 4.30 to 6.30.

The Club opened with a fine sheet o
ice, an enthusiastic crowd and excellent
music. It was also observed that a
large number of young people have
taken a great interest in this sport this
year. Weare very fortunate in having
the Club because there is not much
chance for skating in Halifax, due to
the mild weather.

Although the membership list is
almost full it has been arranged for
about a dozen more members to be
admitted. This restriction is due to
fear of over-crowding the ice, so if any
student wishes to join apply immediate
ly to Janet Macneill, as the first twelve
only will be accepted. The membership fee is eight dollars for about
thirty sessions.

$a

Miss Margaret MacRae spent the
holidays in Bridgewater, N. S. as the
guest of Miss Evangeline Crouse.

 

Miss Dorothy Rosier, Dal ‘31, and
now on the teaching staff at Edgehill,
has been visiting Miss Polly Burris at

the Hall.

A Plea for Rationality

 

The Editor,

Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:—

I solicit space in your publication to
express some thoughts on a certain
phase of the social life of our student
body. The question is one which not
only concerns myself, but is also of
some importance to a large number
of other students, and to the group as
a unit. Therefore | venture to speak.

For some few years past certe ‘wr
organizations on the campus have
thought it necessary to break from the
one time custom and to hold elaborately expensive dances in the hotels.
In the first instance such functions were
known as ‘outlaw dances,’ and, at that
time, they were of comparatively infrequent occurrence. In recent years,

however, the number of so-called
‘downtown dances’ has grown to such
an extent as to call forth some expresion of student opinion as to what will
eventually happen to social affairs on
the campus if such a practice is continued. Many and various are the
arguments which might readily be
advanced on either side of this question. This letter is not intended to
quibble over minor details, but rather
does the writer hope to call forth some
controversy in an endeavor to ultimately bring about a wider and fuller
acquaintance of the students with each
other. Nor is the writer such a person
as would care to see dancing curtailed.
It is to be hoped, however, that a more
sane, reasonable and practical method
might soon be introduced involving
essentially the same effect as the
present system, but at a much lower
cost and ata greater social benefit.

The question of cost is probably one
of the more important arguments
against ‘downtown dances,’ and the
details of this are too well known to
the individual student to call for a
lengthy exposition here. Suffice it to
say, however, that a given student
attends only that dance which is given
given by his particular group. Prohibitive prices deter him from attending
more. And what, then, of the social
effects? A given student meets, at a
dance, only those people with whom
he is in constant contact from day to
day, and with whom he is already
friendly. Opportunity for further acquaintance is stifled and he lives in a
narrow world throughout his course.
One thousand students on a campus,
and yet one knows only those who are
in his particular group. This state
of affairs is not universal, but it is
alarming to what extent it is generally
true. Why should Dalhousie dances
be simply for the esoteric? Could this
most undesirable feature not be elimin
ated by a decrease in the number of
‘downtown dances’ and an increase in
the number of less formal and less
expensive dances where a student who
is not forward would feel more at home
and where the opportunity for further
acquaintance would be much greater?
We must not forget in our enthusiastic

efforts to put on ‘the best dance of the
year,’ that, in so doing, we are depriving
a large number of our group from
certain benefits which are their right
as members. The magnitude and
expense of hotel dances is quite enough
to terrorize the average student of
moderate means and the result is that
he stays in social oblivion. He has
been deprived of a right. So, also
many students do not own tuxedoes and
this fact hinders many from attending
a formal dance held in a hotel. These
same students would be more likely
to take a social part if some of our
affairs were held in places other than
hotels. Dancing has now reached the
stage where that individual who is
peculiarly blessed with an abundance
of the world’s goods is the only one
who takes any part. With no attempt
at prophesy I submit that it is neither
unreasonable nor unfair to draw an
analogy between our present condition
and that in which the stock-crazed
public found themselves a few years
ago. We must look not only to the
present. Our method at this time
should take into consideration the
benefits which might so readily be
derived from wider contacts here.

The one great argument in favor of
‘downtown dances’ is the fact that, in
previous years there has been no other

place. The old gym, or barn, was
most unsuitable and it was quite
necessary to go elsewhere. In the

opinion of the writer, however, this
feature is (or shortly will be) a thing
of the past, and the argument will be
a thing of the past, and the argument
will no longer have the same weight
when the new gymnasium is ready for
use, In this new building arrangements are made for a very large gathering, and many of the undesirable
features of the old gym have been
replaced by new equipment and new
methods. Here, in a short time, will
be found a most desirable and suitable
place for holding a dance, embodying
all the essentially good features of a
hotel ballroom, with its new floor and
its great space. Here, also, is a place
to which each student may go ‘as of
right,’ and where he will not be hindered by prohibitive prices or lack of
clothes. Here we might easily revive
the true spirit of our campus.
lt might, perhaps, be not too much
out of place to entertain the hope that
the Students Council should see their
way clear to revive the old custom.
Representations might readily be made
which would result in a limited number
of hotel dances each year, and the
remainder to be held in the gym. By
the adoption of this suggestion we
might reach the much talked of ‘happy
medium.’ . Everybody would be cared
for, and there would be added socia|
and financial benefits. It is to be
hoped that with the opening of the
new gym there will be a revival of
dancing there.
Thank you, Sir.
W. GERALD STEWART.

 

  

     

No. 9

Trounce Tech

Victorious Over

Council President|St- Mary’s Players

    

rn

   

MR. W. GERALD STEWART
Mr. Stewart, in this issue,
takes, unofficially, a decided

stand on the future dance
policy at Dalhousie.

 

Gym Nears
Completion

By the. middle of February it is
hoped that the new Memorial Gymnasium will be available for use
Every effort is being made to rush the
work and it is hoped that everything
will be in readiness by the middle of
next month.

The plasterers are busy in the basement locker rooms and in the small
gymnasium. The partitions and walls
are being erected and the carpenters
are already at work in some parts of
the building.

The exterior is completed except for
the final scrape down and cleaning.
The many entrances and exits will
make it easy for anyone coming from
any direction on the campus,

A feature of the girls’ section of the
basement is the special cloak room for
dances which is being fitted up at one
end of the girls’ locker room. The
storage space alloted to the Glee Club
and to other organizations is indeed
a great help and the space under the
stage will be used for the stora,e of
chairs and benches is accessable from
the main floor and also from a side
door to the left of the stage.

The special lighting system that is
to be installed in the main gym has
been tested and comes up to all expectations. All window glass is of
wire reinforcements and is unshatterable. In brief the fixtures and equipment used throughout are of the most
modern and efficient type and Professor Theakston is quite confident that
if all arrangements go as well as they
have so far Dalhousie will be able to
use the gymnasium by the middle of
next month,

Phi Chi Fraternity

Phi Chi.
Nu Sigma Chapter.

 

The frat activities are in full swing
again, with five new full fledged members and two more boys in the frat
house which is now filled to capacity.

At the last regular meeting the boys
were all pepped up after the Christmas
holiday. Their enthusiasm centered
on a party of some kind, and plans
are all laid now for an informal dance
to be held at the frat house on Tuesday,
12th.

Jack McGower and Stewart Woolner
are living at the frat house and certainly are an addition to the frat house.

Kings

Dalhousie Tigers made an auspicious
start in the opening game of the fntercollegiate hockey series by defeating
Nova Scotia Tech by a score of 3 to 1
at the Forum last evening in a game
that, though both teams showed lack
of conditior, was hard fought throughout. The Da.-Tech game was the
first of the evening, and was played
before a large gallery of spectators,
among whom the Tech rooters were
conspicuous.

Considering the fact that it was the
first game of the season, it was a fairly
good exhibition of hockey in which the
work of Oyler and Ryan for the Tigers
and Akin and Hibbett for Tech predominated. Tech took the lead late
in the first period, when Hibbett
scored their only goal late in the session from a mixup in front of the Dal
net, taking a loose puck near the
goal, with no one to beat but Purtle,
he sent therubber behind him from close
in. Tech did not hold the lead long,
Taylor tieing the count on a pretty
passing play with the Dal forward
line, beating White with a hard wing
shot. The first period ended with the
score tied. In the second and third
periods Dal notched up a goal apiece,
holding the blue and white scoreless
at the same time. The Tigers’ second
goal followed the prettiest individual
play of the night, Oyler making a solo
rush, circling the defence and slamming
the rubber into the net. The third
score came in the final session, with only
five minutes to go, when the puck was
sent in past Waite from a mix-up in
front of the Tech nets.

The result of the game places Dal
in a tie for first place with St. Mary’s,
champions of.the league last year, and
with the material at Dabhousie this
year and the showing the Tigers made
against Tech, the yellow and black
should give a good account of themselves when they go up against St.
Mary’s.

The Dalline-up was as follows: Goal,
Purtle; defence, Connor McDonald,
Bent; forwards, Oyler, Coleman, Taylor, Ryan.

ST. MARY’S vs. KING’S

In the second game of the night
King’s, with an entirely untried team,
sprang a surprise by holding the strong
St, Mary’s outfit to a 3-0 score. The
King’s team showed lack of condition,
but nevertheless put up a game fight
against their better conditioned opponents, Last year’s champions scored
once in each period, Grant, Findlay,
and Fu.ierton being responsible for
the goals. One of the features of the
game was the fine showing of Howard
Pratt in the King’s men’s nets. Playing his first game in the nets in intercollegiate hockey, the King’s goalie
made several spectacular saves, and
was only beaten from close in. Smith
and Cole showed up well for King's;
leading many offensives that nearly
resulted in scoring, while the fine pokechecking of Smith broke up several
St. Mary’s plays.

The teams iined up as follows:

St. Mary’s: Goal, Morris; defence,
Grant, Findlay; forwards, Flemming,

Carroll, Fullerton, Nelson, Sheehan,
McDonald.
King’s: Goal, H. Pratt; defence,

Zinck, Mader, Moore; forwards, Smith,
Cole, Owen, Gosse, Duchemin, Hatton.

Timmie Hunter refereed both games
satisfactorily. The next games in the
league will be played next Tuesday
night at the Forum when Dal meets
St. Mary’s, and King’s goes up against
Nova Scotia Tech.

—~~+-o—_____

McGill University has been invited
by Oxford and Cambridge skiers to
send a team to St. Moritz, Switzerland to compete with the English
University ski teams. The McGill
authorities have not as yet decided
whether the invitation will be accepted.

 

     
  

  
 
 
 

  
 
 

a ae
so a

 

THE ANNUAL

BOILERMAKERS

 

a

 

 
  
 

Nova Scotian
Hotel

  
 

 
ee ee

COMMENT

tear
am

   

fh. bie r a
rs r
1 wae . —s
ee ee,

  
  
 

 

ae . el

ee
a : i

a” . =
- fT a ne ai ne
eae Ss, toe CSP a —

   
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
    

VA'Surfeft of Tariff.
Happy New Year.

2 : —| A Surfeit of Tariff.
a A Managing Editors; ae a: ferecen elections,
TAT? 4 T which resulted in a some majority

D,B.AL rater dais H. Jost, = i on for the new United Australia party,

ae

 

’ are no little significance to those
Associates: | people in other British countries who
H. B. CHANDLER emeere cee ae ms on
LLIAN SAD ment of inter-[mperial trade by state
LILLIAN § L ae ee * assistance, Many of those who harp
DANIE. R upon the Imperial Preterence theme
5 Editor: read into the result a fresh prospect of
R bP DUCHEMIN success for their plans. It is said that
"""B9608 the piincipal governments of the
> News Editor: Empire ae oe oat rapier e in a
Editor: meny on this particular subject than
vu MARGARET DORMAN hae ?

ELIZABETH MURRAY

There is something of a parallel

+
—~

 

 

Business M rt RUTH CRANDALL Asst. Business Manager: | between these elections and the British
DONALD MAHON CHARLES CLARKE, B. A. |elections of October. The similarity
ot 2. Bigeay B2436 lies in the overthrow of Labour minis| Proof Editors: tries partly for the reason of excessive
wee AARON ZIVE, B. Sc. social expenditures, and in the leadera EDWARD B. HIGGINS ship of new National governments by
former leaders o1 the two Labour govern
ES ort ments. But on the matter of tariffs
the positions, as between the two old
PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB&SON, 7-9-Il1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S. | ministries and the two new ones, is
pretty nearly reversed. The position
tera) a . in Australia at the present time is
3 M A PHILOSOPHER ON THE AIR. somewhat obscure; but the election
[ was very ae in ee oe an enoa Lt ae . : dorsation of high tariff policies.
be The role of a sophist is not one to be assumed. lightly in a} Australian sc veraients ot the past
| a generation which regards the term as an opprobrium. Yet con-|/have conspicuously refrained from
ha considered in its original and best sense, the word described a}reticence in the matter of imposing
| __ type of person valuable enough to any age, but quite invaluable] fils; het the late, Sellen Govern
Bair to our own. Modern sophists are those who contribute £0 what the fervour with which it resorted to
DAtra" James Harvey Robinson calls “the humanizing of knowledge”’, higher duties as the panacea to cure
hy that is, the disseminating of sound through somewhat esoteric] the oe ere ese
BY +e 3 : S1 rs ave heighte
oe _ information in a popular manner, so that he who runs im 8 com- Sas, rae aii e A aaa hod
Bihan sn _prehend, It is a far from easy task, requiring among other at-| .conomic experts and even of its own
arr! tributes, a complete grasp of the subject to be elucidated, a decided — oe os policy ae 3g
Te ") fae < S ont acoing interest i resenting | manifestly failed of its purpose that
ey. i pun pes. isi oem eae unflagging ; a , the good Australian elector has reacted

ee” | worthwhile ideas to a rather stupid public. Heat of violently to a surfeit of tariff. And
In some such role as this, Dr, H. L. Stewart, €ad Of OUT! this a scant two months after Britain
- Department of Philosophy has been appearing of late. Every | was supposed to ring the death-knell
Sunday evening, he has been conducting short radio lectures on|of gpporition fo. protection! pent
4 .y : ; . + a ‘tn muc omn é =
current events of the week, particularly those of historical, political sally iutcceas Bes Be iatta fae:
or economic significance. These broadcasts are achieving an} gonment of free trade that there should
extraordinary popularity, and have considerably enhanced the} be some satisfaction in finding an
~ pedagogical reputation of their author. They have indeed, become ee, eee aE ie oe hea
, ai a ee ‘ s a e Sal sucn ¢é re
et HR of the best features on the.air. 7 : ; much protection, The electcrate of
re Ls The most notable merit of Dr. Stewart's talks, is the entirely] Australia is probably neither more nor
|  _ .. fair and unbiased way in which he treats all matters. By steering less eliahtened thant any other elecns, , og _ lia of ultra-radicalism | torate which has polled its votes on
N a Pretty Cee ate Pott Ree oe cae : ti on the these matters of national economics.
on the one side, and the Charyb bea aoneca ve ‘ee a If the ‘man in the street’ votes for a
other, he adds new truth to the dictum of Croce, that “history] high tariff with a knowledge of the
; ould be related only by philosophers.” Moreover, Dr. Stewart consequences of his act it is only fair to
brings to bear on contemporary events, a remarkably wide learning, ae pe es Poe
an get. i r with an acuteness in appreciating the salient Ponts of tion a fortnight ago. That should ac-any problem. These make it possible for him to review suc- cora some satisfaction to non-protec_. cinctly and clearly the important world-happenings of the week, | tionists in these panicky days. | If, and to the average person, who is forced to glean all his information a one feet or cts aah te ly
from the scanty paragraphs of the local press, such a review i5|;4:.. on these matters, then it 1s
welcome beyond measure. In our stormy times, when history is

f : gratifying to discover that the sword
being made every day, a philosophic appraisal of the tide of events] of popular ignorance in matters ecois of inestimable worth to the community at large.

~~

For his | 20mic is a double-edged weapon which
valuable service in this regard, Dr. Stewart is to be highly commend- cuts both ways.

‘Happy New Year.

As this our Canadian nation embarked upon a New Year the journals from
coast to coast voluminously engaged

EXAMINATIONS OR EDUCATION?

The general outcome of the Christmas examinations has|casting of the national future. The

{ been attracting an unusual amount of attention everywhere. |note is optimistic, even cheerful, It
.) Not only in college circles, but in spheres quite removed from fet te fiance a
direct academic influence, one ‘hears surprisingly vigourous argu-| suggest we remember the legsons it

cases, the abnormal interest arises from a widespread conviction |for that matter was 1930. But 1932,

that the percentage of students who failed to pass the recent’ tests ray ve stpitely, ee LE Meat

7 is. much higher that it should be. And, judging from the number worthiness of its immediate predecesI of undergraduates who have had to alter their courses, or from|sors.. We are assured by leaders of the

those more unfortunate souls forced to discontinue their univer-| business and political worlds of many
things. The foundation ot the nation’s

sity careers altogether, the eenon beliet seems to have a very economy is very sound, the depression

solid foundation. f ¢ has been heavy weather but it has
Now it cannot be denied that students who fail to measure] brought about a sturdy and self-reliant

up to the minimum standard set by Dalhousie examiners, have one a Gur PPOs: and that —
; \ : iY : . : esougn an eiusive corner which
largely themselves to blame. The pass-mark in most classes is not bars the vision of prosperity is about

unreasonable, and those failing to equal it, do not, presumably,|to be turned, or perhaps the turning
know their work. At the same time, there are two points which|has already been accomplished, We
a to us seem deserving of censure in the stand of the university ou do pe eres things in this
authorities, especially with regard to the present state of affairs:|® The an at nae ae Gh nelobaplich.
their general attitude toward examinations; and their treatment] ments and potentialities, national,
of candidates who are badly ‘plucked.” provincial and local, and the accom
__ Im the first place too many collegians regard the sole end of| future sue doubtless good. things’ ia
A their academic endeavours to be the achieving of a certain required | their own way. A public stock-taking
ie total in the semi-annual tests. The ‘passing’ of these has come] is quite as laudable as a private one,
m to be identified with education. And why? For the simple reason seed by one a oe to sérees the more
i To be. L . ucation t ; 5 possibilities and pronih that those directing our institutions of higher learning lay an entirely| babilities. Lf these hopeful forecast|  — +~wUnwarranted stress on examinations. The granting of degrees is ings really do’ something towards bol| He a. regulated by the number of points a student makes. If he gets | Stering up the public confidence, do
ee orty, he is considered ‘‘successful’’; if he gets thirty-eight, he has
a: “fail iled”. And so on, ad infinitum. All this, of course, is pitiful] at the very worst these New Year
a tomfoolery. Real education has not even the slightest connection | editions furnish some handy informar with the accumulation of ‘ marks”. It does not consist in the] tion, some good reading, and some
Bis whole-sale absorption of pile-driven facts, or their periodical | Py on in au Werke
‘es excogitation on paper. Real education is learning how to think] parage these formidable journalistic
A cogently, clearly, correctly; how to evaluate truly; and how to|efforts. We do find it difficult, at
Be a at contaitied, self-emancipated individual. This, the] times, to find a good answer to those

: thing worth knowing, examinations can never teach. Con- (Continued on page 3.)

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  

   
 

   
  

 

est a necessary evil, and the university authorities should keep
' them as far in the background as possible. ae pace

     
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

ssing those who have been badly “plucked” at the mid-year | attending
» seems decidedly unfair.. True, only a very few are so treated,
1e, what harm would be done by permitting these
inlucky people to continue at their own risk for the remainder of
the senate 7 ne them admittance, if necessary, in the such] has
disappointment of having to leave college before the end of the]a question of examinations.
erm. Moreover, the recent examinations were conducted under] only in the latter,

emel Crowded classrooms,
ched seating facilities, were] right thing by the students.

name.

absolutely no significance.

    
 

  

If

 

      
  
   
 
 
 
   
  

  

pee

etchec
'

    

Let

    
 
 

) show some of their traditional academic] character take its place.
Nr tn ak 3 ee ;

a, dn e's cw }

ere tt? eT) a

4. 4 t 2
7 ‘hg Pa | a i
‘ ae LE s ,
a ee a u
1 + ri 7 ol

Be

then it is a great pity.
where | are keen about promoting real education,

S — c
x a =— an

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

January 13th, 1932

 

   

THE
PASSING BLOW

The Library Again.
Keep off the Grass.
Mr. Larry MacLean.

  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
    
      
     
     
  

The Library gain.

This year more than any other
within editorial memory the MacDonald Library has been accessible to
Students. First, it was opened on
Sunday afternoons; next the night.
sessions were extended to 10.30, and
the library remained open on Saturday
nights. We believe that these efforts
ot the Library authorities are really
appreciated by the vast majority of
students. Some evidence of this has
been afforded by the numbers who take
advantage of the facilities provided.

As we had cause to point out, however, in a previous issue, the College
crowd is a motly crowd not unsprinkled
with occassional irresponsibles. During the past few nignts, privileges
within the Memorial Library have been
grossly abused. On one occasion the
Presidents quarters were invaded and
left bestrewn with papers and on
another cccasion the basement
misused in the same rashion.

If these practices are continued, the
University authorities cannot very well
be expected to continue in force the
present library schedule. During the
latter part of the evening the library is
in charge of volunteer students, and
these are the hours that lend themselves
to depredations. If the Studley Students wish to be assured that the present
reading opportunities will be continued,
then, studentfopinion should be brought
to bear upon the offenders and these
indecencies eradicated.

was

Keep off the Grass.

The Students who would be among
the first to complain if the Studley
Campus were to indicate neglect are
not so apt to consider appearance or
to respect the measures necessary to
preserve them. This is especially
true when even a small element of
personal convenience intervenes. The
Campus is well and conveniently interspersed with paths, of which the
suggestion of purpose is augmented by
many ‘‘keep off the Grass” signs
Nevertheless a number cutting across
corners and encroaching upon the
bordering lawns: They gain a negligijie advantage but often leave bebind

em a great deal of ruined sod. These
actions are largely the result of thoughtlessness. At heart practically everybody on the Campus wishes it to look

beautiful. A little more consideration
for, and co-operation with those in

charge would cost nothing and be

much appreciated.

Mr. Larry MacLean.

usiness or enterprise the persons in
high places, but often they, who are
hidden from the public view and unknown to the many occupy very important places in an organization,
How many times have we seen in a
state department, how the Portfolio
could change with every election and
the department catry on without
noticeab.e interruption; but how when
a chief clerk became suddenly ill the
department was direly embarrassed.

Mr. Larry MacLean during quite
a few years was in charge of the firm
of Wm. Macnab & Sons, Printers,
where the Gazette is published. During the 1930-31 term, when the present
editors were associated with the paper,
he won theirconfidence, and during the
first part of the 1931-32 term he was of
great assistance at a time when this
year’s editors were necessarily in need
of advice. Once the copy had been
placed, the entire organization of the
type could be left to Mr. MacLean.
In an emergency he could be relied
upon to exercise a wise discretion and
so contributed much to the ease of the
editors’ minds. He was obliging and
tolerant when copy was late as copy
often was,

Shortly before the Christmas holidays, Mr. MacLean passed away with
tragic suddenness. When the illness
that culminated a long period of ill

stances that would leave him indisposed only while one issue of the
Gazette was being printed; for he expected to be at his job for the first number
of the New Year. That however was
not to be, and the Gazette registers
its sincere regret on the passing of a
real friend.

uently, they should be minimized, not emphasized. They Ree i Ss

wisdom. Finally, there is the distasteful question of fees. To us
; grossly unfair not to refund a portion of a student’s
_ place, the present practice of peremptorily|tuition-money,; when he or she has been ordered to discontinue
endi classes. _A cynical observer would not be entirely
unjustified in branding the present custom with a very disagreeable

After all, this tremendous concern about’ plucks”’ and ““passes”’

It is not a matter of raising or

least would mitigate the disgrace and|lowering the educational standard of our university; it is merely

our authorities are interested

If on the contrary, they
they are hardly doing the
this hubbub about examinations

‘ings shouldinduce the authorities|be toned down, and a ery for finer and fuller development of

Not always are they who are re; : J : sponsible for the smooth running of a
- in national stock-taking and the fore- i s

  
 

  
 

PORTRAITS
AND

CARICATURES

  

FROM OUR
CONTEMPORARIES

  

 

Impressions of Cape Breton.

Tons Thiousanel Mashee: William Laurie Hart.

“Our Willie,”’ as he is known to the
girls at the Hall is one of the sweetest
boys on the campus, His general
appearance calls to mind Little Lord
Fauntleroy which perhaps explains
why all the women want to mother
him, and to run their fingers through
his blond curls. His frail physique
has thus far prevented him from entering into our more serious sports but
he is to be congratulated on his marvelous game of checkers. The crude
commercial spirit of the day jars on
his finer nature; a child in matters of
finance he spends his money recklessly
and his father has cut him down to an
allowance of ten cents a week. For
earnest student he is perhaps most
interested in his class in Comparative
Religions; but Science also claims him
and his amazing collection of butterflies is the pride of his Sunday School

Well liked by those who know him,
he and ‘‘Fat’’ are the best of friends
but since Fat sent his car home Laurie
has been riding up to Windsor on his
bicycle.

A charter member of Delta Gamma
and of the Dalhousie Moustache Club
he possesses great executive ability
which was recognized when he was
elected secretary of the Geology Club
in 1927.

And so we present to his fellow
Dalhousians this fine and promising
young spirit—aw, come on have a
Hart!

Bertrand Russell and the
New Age.

Impressions of Cape Breton.

Selling. magazines in the summer has
developed into a ‘‘racket’’ for the
college student. A feature writer in
the McGill Daily tells of his experiences in Cape Breton last summer as
a super-salesman for Mr. Hearst. Of
the crew of six sent there, two were
college ‘students, but all loudly represented themselves as McGill men, “poor
students working their way through
college.’ He describes his entry into
Sydney by steamer, and exclaims
“How in hell are we ever going to sell
magazines in this hole—’’ He admits
though that all the homes in Sydney
are not shacks, for there are some
pretty structures but nearly all of wood.
The manner of collecting money from
unwilling and unsuspecting victims
is an art in itself. The lady of the
house must first be impressed with the
poor student idea, then she is told
that she may have the magazine free
for the student is ostensibly advertising
the Good Housekeeping Institute. At
first she is incredulous, but when
told that she will merely have to pay
the small sum of eight cents a week
for postage, she signs the blank and to
her dismay discovers thnt 8x50 amounts to about four dollars a year.
He states that Cape Bretoners are more
gullible than those on the mainland.
The Sydney Post printed a picture of
the crew and gave them a heading
Mcgill Students Visit Sydney  explaining an educational tour. He has
a poor opinion of Glace Bay, whose
inhabitants seemed to resent his presence—'Glace Bay was one hell of a
joint:”’ New Waterford and Dominion
No. 1 do not fare much better. The
only cultured people he met in the
whole island were the inhabitants of
Baddeck. Then came Inverness—'‘the
home of filth, squalor and ignorance’
where he sold one subscription on
Dominion Day. The result of his
work is a hearty dislike for selling
magazines and the methods involved.
Hence we can anticipate that Cape
Breton will be free of his sweetness
and light for a long while to come.
And of course students selling magazines are apt to see life through dark
glasses. /

 

Kappa Kappa
Sigma

The first meeting of the new year of
the Kappa Kappa Sigma Sorority took
place on Wednesday, January 6th at
their room on Spring Garden Road.
Plans were discussed for the coming
installation as the Alpha Eta Chapter
of the Alpha Gamma Delta Sorority
The exact date of installation has not
been fixed but it is hoped it will be
sometime in the near future.

C. O. 7... ‘Notes

The first parade of the New Year
was held on Wednesday last. Unfortunately a great many members were
noticeable by their absence. The work
for the remainder of the year, which
will consist chiefly of tactics, will be
entirely new to many students, and
it is to be hoped that a much larger
attendance will be seen at the next
parade, Wednesday, January 13th.

Some people have said that the
C. O. T. C. ought to be condemned
solely on account of the training which
it gives in machine-gunnery. They
are evidently labouring under the
ance of concerted action to the student | delusion that this branch of the trainbody of Canada. If it is assumed that ing exists purely for the purpose of
all who signed were sincere, and there supplying the depleted ranks of Chiis no reason to doubt this, it is evident | caco gangsters. Surely, as our beloved
that a large number of the potential Registrar might say, that is absurd.
leaders in future actions of the Cana-| But the machine gun is one of the most
dian nation are not merely against|important infantry weapons, and as
warfare but repudiate the idea of pre-|such certainly deserves to be studied
paredness by military means in case}by budding officers. Let us, hope
of attack, at least to a great extent however, that they never have an opIt is of small importance whether the portunity to use their knowledge
petition has any effect at the present except on McNab’s Island. alk

time; of much greater importance is it ee Be ae
Fraternity News

as a declaration of the ideals of our
generation.
ee Ter ae Seba Delta
' ie | eta Fraternity held anot i

Bertrand Ruesell’s radicalism is only delightful teaeeothnt gee an aon
mildly socialistic, _according to the|House on South Park St. Twent
impression University of Toronto stu-| couples swayed and stomped to the
dents received in a recent lecture by| music of Yale Brodie and his boys
this so-called modern philosopher. In-| until nearly 2a.m. At 11.30 delicious
stead of a radical programme of social | refreshments were served to the hunery
reform to cure the ills of the world he dancers—adding that finishing touch
uttered such dry platitudes as that|/to an enjoyable evening. The Social

competition is the fundamental sin of |Committee are t
our civilization, and that war, the = 08 Pe. Cone atte ted.

worst of our competitive activities, is
nota nice pastime. It seemsas though
Mr. Russell preferred to tread lightly
on the intellectual corns of the sponsors
of the lecture, upholders of the 6ld order
not least of whom was the chairman,

OL SPSS sss

Ten Thousand Names.

Ten thousand Canadian students
signed the disarmament petition which
was passed around the universities and
colleges last fall. This is an appreciably large number to give an appear
Bertrand Russell and the New Age.

The Annual Fraternity Dance of
Phi Kappa Pi will be held at the Nova
Scotian Hotel on Friday, Feb, 5th.
Harvey Sutherland convenes the committee in charge.

 

Mr. Arthur Meighen. The effect was| Saturday. F b. 6t i i
that the students felt that they were | will Hold ‘its Angst Meee iat
being treated as a fairly intelligent] meeting at the Nova Scotian. Many

but socially uneducated lot of children
And so the Torontonians lost another
illusion about great men.

out of town members are expected and

representatives from other chapters
will be present.

———————— eee

JUST RECEIVED !

A New Shipment of

Dalhousie Sweaters
in the famous Universal Jumbo Knit

Your choice of BLACK with CANARY trim
or WHITE with BLACK and CANARY trim.

Priced at $9.00
SHANES MENS WEAR SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

{
i
:
:
:

 
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Ghandi Goes 1o Jail
By Ganesh Sawh, B.A.

Gandhi. The boycott on British goods
the non-payment of taxes, the giving
up of positions held under the govern,
ment, the picketing of liquor and
tobacco shops will all be resumed.
Britain is trying her utmost to strangle
the move before it gets under way
Here we have two forces pitted against
each other. One the force of power,
the other the force of passive resistance

  

 

 

 

Law Society Meets

Last Friday afternoon the Law
Society held its first after Christmas
meeting in the Moot Court Room
The President, Mr. Don Grant was in
the chair. The first business to come
before the meeting was the selection of
a hockey manager. Charlie LeBrun
was elected; Jerry Coleman was appointed coach. It was decided to
hold one hockey practice at the Forum
at the expense of the Society. Basketball was the next subject on the agenda
Austin McDougal was elected manager

The Student Forum

A Column devoted to Comment and Controversy

   

  

 

    

 

    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

With repeated failures to bring forward a satisfactory solution to the
situation of India, the British Government has at last decided to take the
matter firmly in its hand, and to deal
with any situation that might arise by
very effective methods. The . first
move was, of course, to send Mahatma
Ghandhito prison, orrather as is reported ‘“‘to be placed under restraint during

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

To the Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

object to Fastidious’ grouping of offenders into ice-men, grocery-men, breadmen, garbage collectors, farmers—and
even a few down at the heel bums.
As a passing observation we might
remark that gentlemen as a class are
not confined within the walls of a
University. If Fastidious admits that
we live in a democratic country and

Dear Sir:—

The complaint which found its way
to ““The Student Forum”’ of last week’s
Gazette is so obviously an example of

 

 

the pleasure of the government for/or as Gandhi aptly describes them] George Smith was made manager of|fastidious snobbery that one need :
eaad aad sufficient reeonn.” “brute force and Sout tetea softball. The date of the annual | scarcely bother to draw attention to ee oe wee apply. o. ie
By statements issued during the a ; d banquet then came up for discussion.|the fact. Yet in the hope of saving caudintadce with sore of t! fl =
second Round Table Conference, and] ,..Btitain is playing her strongest card.| Ty Was set for Saturday night, January }one of our number from an acute at- eee, x ditch-di, ae sas age
by world-wide newspaper propaganda, Will she win? She has eve ing e 16th. A banquet committee compris-| ack of snperority complex we venture, weil ele ree : eee e oe
it was blazoned forth far and wide, that her favour. She has a chance to ing Messrs. Cameron, Foster and|with your kind permission Mr. Editor, ee ect Bai . D. ates *h ¥
the Indian National Congress, and|Sttangle a movement before it starts. Wijjer was selected. The ‘choice’ of al to urge the following Jagainst what Attn dt <4 = Xn a eal incidentally Gandhi, did not represent She has wealth, arms, aT eee .*| speaker was left with the Society} we consider an unwarranted attack as et a Nick . d ae ~ ob ky
the majority of intelligent Indian well-equipped police force an te Executive, The meeting then ad-/on the ‘indiscriminate wearing of sate eat and ah 8 “a ee
opinion. The case against the nation- India, and the ever-increasing a ity journed. coat sweaters bearing the familiar gold Sh; il Se acaiee Sear ie ars
alists has been made out so very clear, |0f her Anglo-Saxon sons in her ¢ > ees and black colours of our University.” | >" Shenk, W ay a at $ eh e
that the outside world, British to the|i0™S overseas. Already Britain has Dalhousians have in the past been ustde ree: cones eh ce * oa =e.
core and with a bias for British justice, passed drastic laws. Sere has = distinguished not so much by sweaters Sick ead pt te. Shall =) . ae ll
* - | government and rule, feel that Gandhi | increased her atmy by. stuploments Comment = 7 = jof gold and black as by their success} } 4 collegians the warmth of a theches

detachments from home. Already has
she jailed Nationalist leaders and
confiscated Nationalist newspapers and
property.

The odds are against India. She
has nothing in her favour. No wealth
for it has all been eaten up in national
expenditure or stored in personal coffers
She has no arms and ammunitions; no
well organised army and no sympathy
from the wnite-skinned races abroad.
India’s only stronghold is ‘‘soul-force,’’
the cry of nation that right should
triumph over wrong. Because of soulforce, and the doctrine of Ahimsa
(non-violence), India’s boycott worked
effectively the last time. Britain was
forced to compromise in the last ‘‘passive resistance’ campaign. Can India
force Britain’s hands again? Can
Manchester and British finance stand

in the world of affairs, which, after all,
is the only field where endeavour
may be called successfull. It would
come as a more rational suggestion,
therefore, that Dalhousians should
be denied the privilege ofearingher colours until they had proved themselves
worthy of the symbols; and when that
worth isestablished the necessity for any
such ostentatious labelling is removed.
We might safely remark that, excepting
in sporting and ceremonial events,
the “‘indiscriminate’’ wearing of the
black and gold as the mark of a Dalhousian is a vicious tradition, elevating
the student by the mere fact of passive
attendance at a University, to a rank
of the common herd. We particularly

and the Nationalist Party only appeal
ro illiterate (but not unintelligent) India.

Gandhi left the conference in London
somewhat disapnointed, but not an
entirely disappointed man. He might
have had high hopes that the National
Government of Great Britain would
yield to the cry of an oppressed India,
but he would not have been an Indian
if he had implicit faith on the strength
and value of British promises, which
have been so often broken in the past.

Gandhi realized that India’s struggle
for freedon had to continue. It was
India’s only resort in view of the
attitude of the Conservatives and of
the Home Government. Staunch Englishmen who would not yield a bit of
their pride and give more concessions
to an India struggling for freedom.
That indomitable spirit of Britain,

OWARD W. MATHESON, M. Sc.

é The award to Howard W. Mathe“ son, M.2Sc., vice-president in charge
, of research of Shawinigan Chemicals,
Limited, of honorary membership in

the Society of Chemical Industry pays

a signal honor to one of Canada’s

ablest chemists. Formal presentation

of the award took place at the opening
meeting of the Montreal Section of the
Society, on October 16th, when F. J.
Hambly, vice president of the Society

and chairman of the Canadian Council
presented Mr. Matheson with the

scroll of honorary membership and a

silver plaque commemorating the event.

Mr. Hambly had received the tokens

at the hands of H. R. H. Prince George

during the celebration of the fiftieth

Jubilee of the Society in London, last

coat- Shall the zebra have his stripes
erased and barber poles be branded
an intrusion on the rights of the downtrodden collegian—

The Black and Gold should be respected only as it symbolizes the
qualities and standards which Dalhousiags have as a rule upheld; then
it becomes a superfluity except pro-bably for Fastidious.

(Continued from page 2)

who are cynical of their usefulness.
The 1932 pronouncements bear a
striking resemblance to those which
have gone before them. We wonder
how some public figures of long standing
avoid repeating themselves—or do
they? The rosy forcasts cf the two
preceding years have fallen upon rather
stony ground, what of this last crop?
We sometimes think that some people
place a little too much faith in the
newness of a New Year, for after all
ten minutes of whistle-tooting and
general noise-making can hardly work
a fundamental change. And optimism
overdone is not always the greatest

Thanking you Mr. Editor, for this
space, I am,

Yours sincerely,

A STUDENT.

 

  

July. On that occasion, ten of the
world’s outstanding technologists were
so honored, and it is gratifying to

Canadian chemists to learn that Mr.

Matheson’s name was included in this

select coterie.

é Howard W. Matheson was born in
Pictou County, Nova Scotia, in 1866,
and graduated from Dalhousie University in 1910, taking honours in

he chemistry and physics and receiving

bs the University Medal. In 1910 he
was appointed instructor in chemistry
at McGill, and the following year was
awarded the degree of M. Sc. and the
Governor-General’s Meda] for research
in the graduate school. For four years
Mr. Matheson was research chemist
at the experimental station of the
E. I. DuPont deNemours Co., where
he was occupied largely with industrial
research in reference to the production
of artificial leather, eed and

yroxylin compositions generally.

| i Pen 1915 he Agined the Shawinigan

Water and Power Company to develop

-__- processes for the production of acetal
dehyde, acetic acid and acetone from

--— galeitum =carbide. This process was
e successfully developed during the latter
. months of 1915 and on a large scale
j in 1917. At the same time Mr. Matheson became associated with the Canadian Electro Products Co., and rose
‘from the position of chief chemist to
that of vice-president in charge of

technical and development work. In

1928, when the Canadian Electro

Products and Canadian Carbide amal
gamated to form Shawinigan Chemicals

Limited, he was appointed vice-presi
dent in charge of research, a position

which he has occupied since then with
conspicuous success. ;

Mr. Matheson is a past chairman
of the Montreal Section of the Society
of Chemical Industry, as well as the
distinguished winner of the Howard

| N. Potts medal of the Franklin In
stitute of Philadelphia in 1926. He is
an original Fellow of the Canadian

Institute of Chemistry.

In accepting the award, Mr. Matheson pointed out that whatever had
been accomplished at Shawinigan Falls
had been done by close co-operative
work. (From Canadian Chemistry
and Metallurgy, November, 1931).

 
  

 

Speaks to ComBs . mercial Club

‘Mr. A. Gordon Cooper, who recently
won the Rhodes Scholarship for Nova
Scotia was the guest speaker last
Thursday at the Commercial Club
dinner. Mr. Cooper spoke upon the
value of the Commerce course at Dalhousie, tracing back the history of the
JOT course to its founding through the
generosity of Mr. W. A. Black. He
i pointed out that the first two years
were devoted to a general education

and the final year to intensive study of
he Commerce. The value of the course,
| in Mr. Cooper’s opinion lies in its
ae actical incidence on real life and in
i its teaching to think rationally and to
a> discuss intelligently. He stressed the
aa - mental training side of the curriculum
ha? and warned against mere fact cram
ming. Mr. Cooper closed with a plea
to the business men to give the Commerce graduates a chance.

. &
ru 4 a
e a r a]

 

an
£2) 4 The Gazette Staff desires to express
; preciation to Mr. Victor Oland

‘

   
         
    
 
   
 
 

   
   

uring some weeks previous to the

holidays acted as assistant sport editor,

Ny Bid eho during the after Xmas absence
sof Mr. Duchemin fiiled the vacant post
_-——s with entire competence, We hope that
Ae in a future year another Gazette
zy: editor will be fortunate enough to
secure Mr. Oland’s services permanent
 
 

2 ap nt part of her
n Buffaio, U.S. A.

Eg

  

that spirit of bulldog tenacity, the
spirit which built up the British Empire
again held sway. Strange that the
spirit which made India a part of the
Empire is tending to alienate India
from England. When Gandhi went
home he said that it had to be war, a
fight more bitter than ever before, for
his people would be called upon to face
bullets and the mighty power of Britain.
By their attitude to the whole problem
and by their unwillingness to yield a
bit of their pride, the people of Britain
have alienated whatever sympathies a
hopeful India might have ever had.
It is a great error in the annals of
British diplomatic history.

Gandhi, the Nationalist party and
intelligent India realize that the only
solution lies on the hard and difficult
road of freedom and independence.
Britain has again repudiated India’s
rights to government and has cast

another British boycott?

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

   
   
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
   

Many of my readers and all those
who have been fed by the spoonful on
British headliners, with a perfect unwillingness to place themselves on the
other side of the hill, and with the
utmost faith in Britain’s strength, will
feel that force will win out in India.
That is they are also relying on the
assumption that Gandhi and_ the
nationalist party do not represent the
voice of the peoples of India. Let’s
hope that they are right. Time along
will tell whether it is only the minority
who will respond to Gandhi's appeal.
The Nationalist party promise a surprise to those who believe in its weakness.

Gandhi sensed Britain’s move far
in advance when he announced that his
people will have to face British bullets
‘In the days of the East India Company

help to those who are downcast.
Withal there is satisfaction in wiping
a slate clean, in turning to a fresh leat,
and in beginning again.
have their own fascination.
imagination of a break between one
year's end and another’s commencement may be a psychological gain.
Even the cynics by judicious use of
mental reservations may accept the
newness of 19382.
tions are in order, in public as well as
private affairs.
dorse the ‘Quarter-of-a-Year Plan’ of
one American journalist and then by
making three months constitute a year
we should have in each twelve months
“no less than four Christmases for
trade to pick up a bit, and four New
Years for the worst of the depression
to be left behind.’
hope and declare that the remainder of
a year already one-twenty-eighths ex
Beginnings
The very

Programs and resolu
We might even en

iy

Finally we may

er ee me me es

another reflection on whatever little : an " d 3

a i : : and Clive, British bullets conquered | hausted will be bright and happy an ‘
ae ee oe oe India in order that a “barbarous| Prosperious to the utter confusion of ;
sympathetic and “frieddly when the} #eathen nation” might be ruled for} 1s predecessors. ve
air seethes of disorder, discord and war— eta ee te eee . 3} i
Surely it is too much to expect good g ‘ci’ S| Latest rumours at Shirreff Hall. Sit

 
 
   
  
  
  
 
    
    
    
 
   
  
 

lack of political interest, lack of political unity, and selfish ruler help to
keep India for Britain. Earlier British
administration, reliable British promises and an excellent type of Britisher
won the favour of grateful Indians.
India has stepped out of the cradle of
political science. She asks and does
not receive. Britain, after all her
trouble, is now faced with an upstart
revolutionary nation. Britain renounces goodwill and takes up the strong
hand. British bullets will be effective
in destroying Indian souls, but force
can never maintain peace where the
soul of a nation cries out for freedom.
Can the force of British power ever
cool an Indian’s heart and make him
thrill at the thought of British friendship?

But it has to be war. Not the kind
where there is wholesale massacre on
both sides. But the war of a nation
trying to maintain ‘‘peace and order”
against a revolutionary people whose
weaponlis‘‘non-violent non-cooperation”’
India will be all astir in holy reverence
to the greatest patriot any country
has ever had, for the ‘‘Mahatma” goes
to jail,

feeling and good friendship when the
spirit of India is aroused to antagonism.
There have been only one Vishnu, one
Rama, one Krishna, and one Christ,
and no nation has ever yet embodied
within themselves as a composite whole
the salient religious principle of friend]
sympathy in spite of pervading discord.
So Gandhi and the Nationalist party
step off the beaten path of conciliation
and again tread the highway of ‘‘nonviolent non-cooperation.”’

Britain's move and incidentally her
trump card, is that of the firm hand.
With passive resistance in abeyance
since the Gandhi-Irwin truce, with
peace in India, with the Congress
authorities dormant and with their
activities suspended. Britain feels that
she has a good start. So as soon as
Gandhi declares that ‘‘non-vilent noncooperation’’ must start again, the
Government of India (i. e. Britain
speaking through the Viceroy’s voice)
sends Gandhi to jail and becins a
round-up of his lieutenants. It would
seem as if Britain is moving on safe
ground.

Non-cooperation and all that it
means has been appealed for by

   

 

 

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical Instruments

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST and Victor Records
Smokers Requisites of every We invite you to join our
description

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

  
 

 

  

21 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 

| Winter-Burns, Ltd.
SPECIAL PRICES

FOR

| JANUARY
In all lines of Clothing and Furnishings including Society Brand Clothes

Winter-Burns, Ltd.

f ——

 

 

 

439 BARRINGTON STREET.
—Ii's the cut of your clothes that counts—

 

They say that some of the well known
freshettes have been playing hide-andseek up on the third floor.
even got stuck underneath the bed.
And we thought they were so sophisticated!

 
    
    
 
 
 
   

Why one

a Vis Eveahie

 

For evening refreshment,
choose The Green Lantern.
All foods, drinks and Ice
Cream arethebest quality }

Mild

and moderately priced.

The Green Lantern

  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Leather Goods

Portfolios,

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of

all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

en |

flloirs
CHOCOLATES

  
 
 
 

 

{ © Waters ine,

We quess ifs true that

“= happiness —)

rolongs life. Your
interest in things will
be awakened by?
taking your full share in |
College Sports and/Athletics activities. Youcan
get all necessary supplies including the famous

SPALDING
SPORTS
EQUIPMENT

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S.

ee:
~..
0
SS

    
  
 

    
   

On top with
TURRET!

Each succeeding Turret
li
higher levels—they’re so
cool, mild and fragrant.

fts your pleasure to still

and Fragrant

urret

CIGARETTES

 

 

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

 

   

  

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

 

 
   
       
    
    
    
 

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. ns

        
     
   
 

 
     
   
 

— NL

Girls Hockey

4.A.B.A. Meets

) ee

 

bal

“Ey eres meeting of the Halifax) Ice hockey this year promises to be
sy a SBacketball Association held| better than ever at least if enthusiasm
id has anything to do with it. The stu
dent Council has granted us $125 with

   

> *

- fecently, the executive for the
Dee, ete fe acas Ben
oe

 
    
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

   
   
   

: James; Hon. Vice|which to supply the necessary pract—Mr., T. L. E. Piers. tises and sticks. Last year under the
“The active executive consists of— |able management of Edith Allen we
-——s- Pres,—Dr. John I were provided with knee pads to soften

the blows as much as possible and a
few cautious ones even borrowed
shin pads. We are still without our
new goal pads however, but with the
co-operation of the boys team which
we heartily appreciated last year, we
hope to overcome this difficulty.
We shall miss ‘‘Moo’’ Lawrence this
ear. She captained last year’s team

) Vice Pres Mr. Ee pirtiagtad

__ Sect.-Treas.—Mr. Charles W. Clarke
) Bus. Mer.—Professor John Kent,
ee ‘This executive has already made
—s excellent progress in drawing up a

 gchedule. There are two groups in
“i Bt we neenicd and Intermediate. | y

ls
a

=

   
    
 
  
 
 
  
    
    

Senior. I ediate. if not to an overwhelming success at
Dalhousie. Dalhousie. least to the satisfaction of all the

ar ee, ©! A, King’s College. team. Several of the girls who played
Tech. ¥/M. Cr A. last year are keen to begin but we wish
Wanderers. St. John’s. to invite all the freshies or people who
Wanderers. have not tried before to come out and

learn, We all have to begin and we
are anxious to see a good turn out and
to help those who are really keen.

The practise will be at 12.00 noon
at the Forum on Saturday as this
seems to be the most suitable time.
Unfortunately we could not begin
right away but we have engaged the
ice for Saturday January the 16th at
12.00 noon and we hope to have a large
turn out.

On Jan. 23, Dalhousie Seniors play
the Y. M. C. A. Cagers. ame
will be i. the Y. M. C. A. Gym

t 8 p. m. Sharp.

? It te iitereating to note that two
prominent Dalhousie men are on this
executive. ‘‘Chariie’” and “Jock,” as
' they are more commonly known, are
ss hoopsters of no mean ability, and it
4 bodes well for the success of the League
with such experienced men at the head.
A Dalhousie Students thus have just
oe one more reason for supporting their
--—s teams, and cheering them on to Victory. Come out and give your team

   
     

a ur moral support. They need and

aie Scat it. Be on hand Jan. 23 to

c back them up. si

t The pe M. C. A. This year it has been rather hard to

2 The Time—8 P. M. arouse interest in Basketball, due to the

a The Game—Dal vs. Y. M. C. A. absence of our Gymnasium, but thr
ber ough the kindness of King’s College
————— ‘we have been able to use their gymna
sium twice a week, In all probability
the practises will be held in the future
at St. Mary’s Hall.

Before Xmas an inter-class league
was started and will be continued
throughout this term.

The City League opens on Monday,
January 28th in the new Y. W. C.A.
when Dalhousie plays the ‘‘Y’. We

The grim reaper has sadly, and in
many oes unjustifiably, thinned the
ranks of prominent Dalhousie students.
We miss many of our shining lights.

GARRICK

Garrick Players

THIS WEEK

| ‘What Every Woman
| Wants’

 

 
  
   
     
  
  
   
     
 
 

League.

FROM THE

WINNERS FkoM.7!

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N.S.

 

| —sCNEXT «WEEK
|“Silent Witeess”

EVENINGS 35c. to 75c.
MATINEE 35c.

 

Tl Each $2.50
: Bearing ‘the EATONIA label, these shirts represent the best value ™
obtainable at this price. Two separate starched collars, double{cuffs

p — full eer es front. Smart {conservative patterns, including &

Be irate Aigicee ok bine snd black.on white grounds. Sizes 1d to.V7 +
e _ 9) « This is an EATONIA Value—A typical.example of .a EATON Low Cash Prices.

a EATON’S Main Floor

©

LIMITED

5
z f

. ) #T ‘ EATO N

   

:

 

  

~~

i

Pe

H
ia

 

  
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  

Girls Basketball

hope that our own gymnasium will be
completed in time to permit us to play
the last game of the Intercollegiate

 

 

“MILLIONAIRES BALL”

 

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Interfaculty

OEE

Basketball

Schedule

 

1932

Section A. Section B. Section C.
Medicine. Theology. Commerce.
Arts & Science. Engineers. Dentistry.
Law. Freshmen. Professors.
Schedule.
First Round. Second round.
Sat. fan. 16th. Sec. A. 2.00 P. M. Medicine vs. Arts & Science. Feb. 6th.
B. 3.00 ‘' Engineers vs. Freshmen. :
C. 4.00 ‘' Commerce vs. Dentistry.
Sat. Jan. 28rd. Sec. B. 2.00 ‘‘ Theology vs. Freshmen. Feb. 13th.
C. 3.00 ‘' Commerce vs. Prof’s. Pf
A. 4.00 ‘* Law vs. Arts & Science. As
Sat. Jan. 30th. Sec.C. 2.00 ‘‘ Prof’s. vs. Dentistry. Feb. 20th.
A. 3.00 ‘‘ Medicine vs. Law. ef
B. 4.00 ‘‘ Theology vs, Engineers. i

win, one-point for a tie).

vention

(Continued from page 1)

Canadian universities at reduced rates,
and the promotion of an all-Canadian
Intercollegiate Athletic Union. The
purchase of athletic equipment from
the firm of A. G. Spalding Co. of
Canada has not been entirely satisfactory and the officers of the Federation were instructed to negotiate with
the company with a view to improving
certain phases of the co-operative purchasing arrangement now in existence.
It is generally known that the reduction under this agreement is 33%
off the list price. The constitution for
an all Canadian Intercollegiate Athletic
Union is now awaiting the approval of
the Maritime and Central groups, the
Western Intercollegiate Athletic Union
have already sanctioned the proposal
Through the instrumentality of the
N.F.C.U.S. a change of name is likely
to be made by the Central group
(which is known, at present, as the
Canadian Intercollegiate Athletic
Union) so as to indicate the portion of
Canada which it represents, removing
by such change, a very serious anomaly
which has existed for some time.

Reduced Railway Rates.

The Executive were empowered to
make a detailed survey of the whole
question of reduced railway rates to
students, including the following aspects; athletic teams, exchange of
undergraduate plan, extension of stopover privileges at holiday seasons,
annual meeting, and the question of a
general ‘reduction to students.

Rather than face the danger of too
extensive a report being left to be unread
by the majority of students, it was
deemed best to publish the account in
two concurrent issues of the paper
Before leaving you at this time I would
like to pointout that one of the most
interesting as well as beneficial sessions
wa's.a forum on student problems which
brought to light the following topics:
interdependence of men and women
student councils where both exist;
national advertising bureau for student
publications; confiict of schedule dates;
relations between permanent-secretary
and students council; medical services;
athletic insurance; sickness and accident insurance insurance for students
during the term; professional coaches
and athletic directors; formation of
political clubs within the university;
student discipline; student employment
agencies; interfaculty sport; initiation ;
student finance of rinks, stadiums
gymnasiums; liability of student societies for destruction of public and
private property by students; paid

 

 

Rules.

1. Two-points fora win one-point for a tie-game.
2. Play-off will be two out of three games, (a game will be two-points fora

8 OFFICIAL REFEREES.—T. O’Brien, M. Lhoy.

N.F.C. U.S. Con-|Gymnasium Notes

 

Revised Gymnasium Class Sched
ule.

Through the kindness of the Board of
Directors of the St. Marys A. C. the
Dalhousie students will have the use
of the Large Dance Hali, for Boxing,
Wrestling, Gymnastics, etc., making
it possible for the Physical Director,
to use the Lower Gymnasium entirely
for Basketball and games, while the
class work will be conducted in the
upper-gympasium.

Gymnasium Class Schedule.

Lower Gym.

This gym. will be open on Saturday
afternoons from 2 until 6 p. m. and
Monda’, Wednesday, Friday evenings
7-11 p. m.

Girls Basketball, Monday and Wednesday, 7-9 p. m.

Men, Ist. Team Basketball, Monday,
Wednesday, 9-11 p. m.; Fri. 7-9 p. m.

Men, 2nd. Team Basketball, Tues. &
Thur. 12 tol p. m.; Fri. evening 9-11.

Interfaculyt Basketball, Saturday afternoon, 2 until 6 p. m.

Upper Gym.

Boxing and Wrestling, Wed., Fri. 7-9
p- m.; Sat. 4-6 p. m.

Gymnastics, Tues, 12-1 p. m. noon;
Sat. 2.30-4 p. m.

Softball.

At a meeting of the Interfaculty
Sport Managers held at the St. Mary’s
Club rooms Saturday afternoor, the
Softball Managers decided to let the
softbail series for 1932, stand until
the games can be plaved in the New
Gvm. during the month cf March.

Due to conflicting classes, the courteous offer of local Military Officials
for the use of the Armouries for Baseball can not be accepted. However,
thcir cooperation is appreciated bv the
Dalhousie Athletic Association. %

officials; custody and care of athletic
equipment.

Space will not permit an account of
the opinions expressed and decisions
concluded therefrom, but for the matters which particularly affect Dalhousie,
as full an account as possible will be
presented to the Council of the Students.

Continuing this report in the next
issue of the Gazette I shall deal with
two of the major undertakings of the
Federation;..1. Debating. 2. Exchange of undergraduates and scholarships.

Respectfully yours,

__D.G. GRANT,
N. F. C. U.S. Representative.

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

JOE MILL’S ORCHESTRA

FRIDAY, JANUARY 29th-------9 P. M.---3 A. M.

January 18th, 1982

 

we ee ee ee

Hockey Season
Opens

Notices

Until further notice the MacDonald Memorial Library will be
open at the following hours:

Mon. to Fri.: 9.00 a. m.—6,30 p. m

7 30 p.m.—10.30 p.m

Hockey Season Opens this Week.
Games Every Tuesday.

Saturday: 9.00 a. m.—1.00 p. m
The present week sees the opening 2.30 p. m.—5.30 p. m
of the intercollegiate hockey season Sunday: 2.30 p. m.—5.30 p. m

YEAR BOOK NOTICE

with our Tigers tangling with Tech,
and Kings meeting St. Marys in the
first fixtures of the six .weeks compaign. All games will be played at
the Forum on Tuesdays and the
schedule calls for double headers each
week, the first game to start promptly
at 7 p.m. After the second game
there will be two hours skating, from
9 till 11.

John Budd and Laurie Teasdale are ee el
handling the squad this year as
managers and the team is fortunate in
securing Todds Beazley, star of the
local Wolverines as coach.

Hockey at Dalhousie is on the up- Aha
ward trend. Last year’s team finishsecond and tie for first in the inter
collegiate and city leagues respectively.
A number of last year’s men will be
missing this year and their places must
be filled. All new material will be
given a thorough tryout. Practises
are held at the Forum on Mondays and
Fridays from 1 to 2 p. m. and aspirants
to a hockey ‘‘D’’ will be given every
chance to show their wares.

May we again utter the Annual
exhortation to get out and support
your team. This gives every promise
of being a Dalhousie year in hockey
and the co-operation and patronage
of all Dalhousians is cordially solicited.
> sp alinipgana tek caeednaalbe a

a ee

All critiaues must be turned in by the 20th of this

month.

HALIFAX RIDER AND DRIVER
CLUB.

A Rider and Driver Club has lately
been formed in Halifax. Plans are
being made to secure the North Common for a riding ring. Further information will be published for the benefit
of students at the earliest possible date

OO

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

 

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bidg. Halifax, N.S.

a

 

 

Thur.-Fri.-Sat.
January 14-15-16

“WEST OF
BROADWAY”

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

Letter Files 3 for 5c
Scratch pads 10 and 20c

seins (ores SPECIAL FRIDAY
OIs MORAN and
Mon.-T ues.-Wed. SATURDAY

January 18-19-20

“WICKED”

with
ELISSA LAND!
VICTOR McLAGEN

Hyde Park Pipes regular
$1 line te clear at 75c. Our
special for Sat. only-six of
any 5c article in the store

for 25c still holds.

 

 

A University paper may seem to some, a
queer place for a Furniture House to advertise, but we think that there are three distinct classes of first class furniture prospects to be reached through this medium.

First, there is the graduate of bygone
years, who is now well established as a householder, and must, from time to time replace
either the odd piece or complete suite that
has served its usefulness.

Second, there are the parents whose children are now attending the University, and
who wish to keep their homes furnished in
the most modern manner.

Third, there is the young man who will
graduate at the coming Commencement
Exercises, and has already made up his mind
as to who will share his future home.

To all of these, we wish to call their attention to the fact that we are Eastern Canada’s
Largest Home Furnishers and regardless of
whether you live in Halifax or elsewhere, our
services are at your disposal.

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes”’

448-450 Barrington St.

Halifax, - i “

Canada.

 

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

COUPLE $3.00 - SINGLE $2.00

 

    

 

 

 

Tastes

se .

 
