      

   

aa VOL. ic il.
| Tigers Win F inal

"e Game

7

 

a) ‘Showiic the dogged Se katinaGin
and fighting power that characterized
- - - Dal teams of other days, the present
Gold and Black fifteen battered out a
_ victory over the Wanderers, champions
_ of the city league, in the final game of
the schedule on Saturday afternoon,
thereby notching up their only win of

the league and saving a complete shut
out for the season. A little of the fight

the Tigers displayed in a game that

_ meant nothing more than an exhibition

- fixture might have carried the team a
great deal farther had it been displayed
earlier in the season. A loyal little
band of rooters, journeying to the
_ Studley field in expectation of another

_ Dalhousie debacle, stirred from lethar- gic interest to frenzied activity in
witnessing by far the best game on a
~ Maltex field this season, as the collegians, not to be deterred, swept down
‘the field time and again in long runs
and dribbles to threaten the Wanderers
stronghold. The couple of hundred
odd supporters present gave full vent
-to their enthusiasm as they saw the
_ Dal team, humbled three times preNe iously by the Red and Black, ruin the
Wanderers’ attempt to “wind up the
“ Se league season without a defeat.
They left the stands and flocked to the
elines as the old rivals struggled in
attle reminiscent of the bitter feuds
long ago. Hard tackling, fine running and kicking despite the soggy
* condition of the field and the ball, and

- two or three old-time scraps gave the
—-Faithiut Few plenty of action, and the
x eae playin a, of Drover, the
tstanding star of the game, capped

og fine performance of the Dal team,
Taking the offensive at the start,

mel

care carne he play to the other end,
- (Continued o on ‘Page ae

 

.
~—
4 oh
" ;
} ~
=!

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
    

   

  
 

~~.

 
   
 
  
   

: November the et
clock the corner stone will
d the foundation of the new
see The stone, of black

re cut lettering will be set
in the seth west corner of the founda" ; of the main building and will
e: Be cnorth. Mr. G. Fred Pearson
ie irman of the Board of Gover~f “nors- will be master of ceremonies.
ae Mr, Hector McInnis, K, C. Treasurer
= “and senior member of the board will
Tay the stone. President Stanley will
Wien, participate in the proceedings. In
; . _ view of the important part that the
ee) ee building will play in the social,
* 42 vethtetic ant recreational life of the
ae, University, it is hoped that a large
number of students will come out and
assist at the ceremony. This event

- _ will mark an important step forward
_ in the building program of Dalhousie.
el It well merits a little part of every
‘pees Student's time.
-_.... October the tenth.

Tuesday at 12.15

 
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
 
  
   
 
    
    
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   

 

 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 5th, 1981.

Through the Courtesy of the Architect, Mr. A. R. Cobb

THE NEW GYMNASIUM

Now Under Construction at Studley

 

 

> «@* ~

QL;

 

No Armistice
Service

The following statement
re Armistice Day service
has been issued by

the President.

Le Gtectneee of Dalhousie Univer

 

e difficulties of holding Armistice
Diy celebrations this year. Until the
new Gymnasium is completed, there
is no room available for a large meeting
of any kind. Other possibilities were

discussed and the matter was left to

a committee.

The committee has discussed everything, and is agreed that the practical
difficulties are insuperable, and that
no service can be held this year.

 

Canada Versus
Japan

Novel experiment to be carried out.

On January 2, an All-Canadian
Football Team, representing the Universities and Football Clubs of Canada,
will sail from Vancouver to Japan on
the ‘‘Empress of Canada.”’

This, officially representing Canada
in the Orient, will play a series of
matches with the clever sons of | Nippon.
The personnel of the team will be
comprised of the cream of Canadian
footballers; and in all likelihood three
or four Maritime men will be members.
This is of interest to Nova Scotians as
a whole; and there is a distinct possibility that Dalhousie will be reresented. ‘‘The only drawback to this plan,’’
states W. C. MacKenzie, Manager of
the Football team, “‘is that it means
the player will have to sacrifice his
year at school; although at the present
time we are hoping to make certain
arrangements with the Faculty which
will allow the player an extension of
time to catch up in studies and a set
of special exams.”’

“Caledonia, ‘he continued,’ will in
all probability send a man; while the
Wanderers would complete the trio.
However, definite selections have not
yet been made, and the results will
not be known until early in December.”

The expenses from here to Vancouver will be paid by the Local Clubs
and from Vancouver to Japan and rereturn, the Canadian Rugby Association is acting as host. The team
will sail from Japan Feb. 22, on the
Empress of Asea. Good luck, team!

-_—- Oo
Friends of Charlie Anderson who had
his snoulder disclocated in the second

last Dal-Wanderers game are pleased
to see him out again.

 

 

 

, at their last meeting, discussed

New Gymnasium Being Rush-| Tigers Visit P. E.

ed Toward

Completion

 

Will Probably Be Opened in February

 

Only seven weeks ago the first sod was
turned on the site of the new Varsity

Gymnasium. Today the basement walls
are completed
being made for the steel work and the

and preparations are

building of the walls. It is expected,
by those in charge that the Gym will

be open, ready for use by February

15th. When completed, the University will be able to boast of one of the
finest gymnasiums in Eastern Canada
The ot es esos throughout will - be
the best obtainable, and arrangements
are being made to house the possessions of the various Broupe such as the

Glee Club and the C. O. T

The new building will bé scuilad in
style and build to the others on the
Campus. The architectural scheme
will bein harmony with allthe buidilngs
of the University. In designing and
planning the building it was necessary to
consider it primarily as a gymnasium,
and secondly as an auditorium for
convocation, lectures, Glee Club and
other mass meetings of the University.
With these two ideas in view the
building has been designed, and will
undoubtedly prove to be the centre of
Varsity life.

The basement floor, on the same
level.as the football field, will be used
by the men for locker rooms, showers
and toilets. The locker rooms will be
of the most modern type with all steel
cabinets. The shower room will be all
tiled, and equipped with nine showers.
The floor of the locker room will be of
mosaic flooring similar to that used in
the Dormitories at King’s College.
The Varsity Book Store and Tuck
Shop will be housed in the basement.
A small gym floor, 70 feet by 35 feet
will also be in the basement. Here
Mr. Stirling, the Physical Director will
conduct his wrestling, boxing and
fencing classes. The girlslocker rooms,
and showers will be in another section
of the same floor.

When completed the main floor will

be one of the largest gym floors
in Eastern Canada. It will be approximately 70 feet by 100 feet.

This may be used as an auditorium or
as a large floor for championship basketball games. The seating capacity
will be roughly 1500 persons. A large
curtain will be put across the middle
of the floor dividing it into two basketball courts 40 ft. by 60 ft., running
crosswise to the length of the floor.
This will make it possible to run off
two Interfaculty games at the same
time. With the curtain in the same
position it will be possible to have six
badminton courts in use at one time.
Another arrangement would make it

possible to have three games of badminton and.one of basketball going on
simultaneously. The floor is to be
used for indoor baseball, volleyba!!
and other activities. ‘This is all made
possible by a drop curtain which will
divide the gym in half. The entrance
lobby wil! open onto the main floor.
There will be ticket booths and other
arrangements to make it easy to handle
crowds.

One of the features of the auditorium
will be the exceptionally large stage,
only exceeded in size by ‘that of
the Capitol Tneatre in Hrlifax.
This will be as completely equipped as
possible, with switch-board control,
disappearing foot-lights, border lights
and so on. Curtains, drops and _fixtures will all help to make it one of the
best University Auditoriums in Canada.
At the side of the stage will be two
dressing rooms which the Glee Club
will use as make up rooms and storage

space. A small kitchenette is also
planned for this stage level. All
gymnasium apparatus work will be

done on the stage, such as parallel
bars, horse and high and low bar work.

In the north L will be the office and
dressing room of the Physical Director,
the Alumni Room, and the Headquarters of the C.0. T. C. The plans call
for lots of storage space for chairs and
other movable equipment. Provision
has been made in the plans for the
building of a running track and gallery,
in the future. The roof trusses and
wall brackets will be built in for use
at some later time.

The Academic Staff has at present
no place which they can definitely call
their own. To satisfy that want there
will be on the third floor a Common
Room for the Staff onry. Here aiso
will be locker space, showers and a
games room especially for the Staff.

The lighting system of the very
latest and improved type is de ‘signed
with a view to correct intensity and
to eliminate glare. The Gym will be
steam- heated from the Central Heating
Plant in the Science Building. Here
again the most modern type of heating
equipment for large auditoriums will
be used. The air will be in constant
agitation caused by thermostatically
controlled fans.

With such a home Dalhousie should
go far in the realm of sport during the
coming season. Dramatics and other
University activities will find even
more supporters than ever before.
With the building of the Varsity Gymnasium, Dalhousie takes another step
forward in its building programme, and
we begin to see the vision of the Future Dalhousie, of a Greater Dalhousie.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA

"FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6th-------9 P. M.---2 A. M.

Tickets On Sale at Dal. Store

Island

Today the Dalhousie Tigers leave
for Prince Edward Island to play
exhibition games with two’ Island
teams. On Friday they will play
against the Charlotown Abegweits
and on Saturday against a team representing the College of St. Dustans.
On the way home a game may be played
with Mount Allison, but this has not
yet been finally. decided. If a Dalhousie, Mount Allison game is arranged,
it will be played on Monday. The
Tigers will return on Monday morning
or late Monday night according to
whether or not a game is played ‘with
Mount Allison. Including players,
coach, and manager the Tigers will
make up a party of about twenty.

 

Library Opens
Sundays

The student ‘boda will be grateful to
learn that the MacDonald Memorial
Library is to be placed at their disposal
on Sunday afternoons from 2.30 to 5.30,
throughout the remainder of the term.
This is indeed a meritorious move, and
the Committee in charge deserves
praise for its far-sighted policy. Such
a step is undoubtedly a forward one.

All the books in the Library will be
available for students, and, while not
wishing to discourage the study of class
work, it is the hope of the Committee
that the Sunday afternoon session will
be devoted to serious and profitable
reading rather than to the preparation
of approaching tasks. A librarian
will be in charge, and will procure tor
readers any material they desire.

It is to be hoped that the students
will show their appreciation of this
action, by making use of the Library
facilities. As everyone well knows,
the cost of heating the building and
providing a librarian during the extra
period, is considerable, and the fact
that the President and the Board of
Governors has seen fit to confer such
a favour on the students, makes a
oe reciprocation something of a
duty

Nearly all large universities follow
a similar procedure, in keeping their
libraries open on Sunday, for a short
time at least. The afternoon hours
of that day are often unused by students, and perhaps if a comfortable
reading room were available, the shining hour might be improved. Readers
of the: Gazette would also do well to
note the time of the weekly periods

which the Library is open. This
information will be found on page
three.

“NOVA SCOTIAN

 

 

No. 3

Flying Club to be
Organized

Dalhousie has long felt the need
for a flying club such as exists in other
Univeristies, and,with this idea in mind,
the Dal boys, who have taken courses
of instruction at Camp Borden, are
working enthusiastically under Orton
Hewat to place such a club in Dalhousie.

Thisflying club will act in conjunction
with the Halifax Aero Club, with instruction being given by that kindly,
ruddy-faced veteran of the skies,
Don Saunders. Those who know
Don admire and respect him, and Dal
could not be more fortunate in having
such a splendid instructor interested
in the formation of its club.

Tentative planscall for ten students
who will actively participate in flying

 

 

 

instruction starting in a few weeks
time. There will be a series of lec
tures given from now till February

when the club will attend the ground
school of the Halifax Aero Club.

Honorary ‘membership in the H. A.
C. will be given to members of this
club, eliminating the necessity of
paying the club fee of twenty five
dollars. When the Dal. Flying Club
can purchase a plane of its own, the
Government will give it another one.

Every student who is at all interested
in aviation, ground work or active
flying, is urged to attend the organization meeting in the Munro yvoom,
Forrest Building on Monday Nov. 9.
In the meantime get in touch with
Orton Hewat, Bill Barnes or Don
Fraser. They all have their pilot's
licenses and are only too willing to
explain it to you. Gordon Elkin,
Pine Hill took his solo last Tuesday.
Get into the biggest game in the world,
boys: and put Dalhousie on the miap
in One more respect.

 

Council Makes
Appeal

To the Students of Dalhousie:—

During the present week the united
charities of the city are making their
annual Community Chest drive. The
work of these organizations runs the
whole gamut of social service in bringing aid to those of the more unfortunate
ones who have no other place to seek.
This year, due to prevailing economic
conditions and the prospects of a difficult winter, distress among the needy
is especially acute. If the charities
should be forced to curtail their public
services through lack of funds it would
bear more heavily upon the affected
classes than we can imagine.

We commend the Community Chest
to the serious consideration of each
student in the College. It is suggested
that you should endeavor to make
some contribution,—fifty cents per
student is not a terrific sum. It seems
little enough to ask, and it is to be
hoped that the Students of Dalhousie
will respond in a generous manner.

W. Gerald Stewart,
Pres. Students Council.

4

 

 

 

Council President

W. GERALD STEWART.

OTEL”

COUPLE $3.00 - SINGLE $2.00

 
 

Editor

    
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
      
    

eee itor: Managing Editors:
_ THOMAS D. MacDONALD, B.A. = THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
ee L2890 | WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
ee tra Associates:

ee? WN - H. B. CHANDLER

es LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.

aoe ) DANIEL SPRY

eae 2 |

a 7 Girls Sports: } Sports Editor:

aa ADYS NN R. D. DUCHEMIN
2 GLAD Ost B9603

Be hcl > a ‘ News Editor:

ie ase A MARGARET DORMAN

ELIZABETH MURRAY
RUTH CRANDELL Asst. Business Manager:
oy | +) CHARLES CLARKE, B, A.
ee.) BIBRS | B2436
+ St Proof Editors:
AARON ZIVE, B. Sc.
EDWARD, B. HIGGINS

 

ey PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB & SON, '7-9-11 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 

eT

ss WHAT’S WRONG WITH OUR FOOTBALL?

ET
*

7%
a.”

‘ey Sy

> a

bee
4

~~~ The present football season has been a disappointing one for
Dalhousie. Our team has failed toshow the winning form of pre_-_-yious years, and despite the fact that there are still a goodly
- number of veterans playing, interest has been rather low. In
~ addition to this, the support of the student body has been woefully
weak and spasmodic. Attendance at Saturday afternoon games
has shrunk to an unprecedented minimum, and in all, it has been

TREY
ees

+ dee
=

i oe
F.. all


-~— @ poor autumn for the gridiron game.

Phe. The reason for the apathetic attitude of the student spectators
---___ is not hard to find. They demand a winning team, and will not,
_-__-with the exception of a loyal few, cheer a losing one. In this, of

--~———s course, they are absolutely wrong, for victory is the smallest part
of the contest, and any squad which shows a courageous sportsmanlike spirit will be great in defeat. However, the majority do
not not look at it from that standpoint, and, hence, a team loses
‘games and supporters at the same time.

_——s iy is it then, that our rugby fifteen has not been successful
_-~—s in winning an average number of contests this season? Well, to
ra our mind the answer is the same old point that was mooted about
ae a last spring, DALHOUSIE NEEDS A PROFESSIONAL COACH.
‘To say so is not to cast any reflection on those generous members
sof the alumni who are at present devoting their time and energy
_--__ to the welfare of the team. They deserve credit and praise. But
ot a hey themselves will tell you, that such coaching methods are in
_-—s these days most inadequate, and in order to have a successful
_ squad, there must be a paid trainer who will be free to devote all
| his time and energy to the game. Herein lies the crux of the

ma Sal; y SJ oe A em

F kiged ak ‘ AL =. + =H) ae es ’
doubt other minor factors enter into the problem. For

. @
ae

   
   

 

 
     
  
   
    

       
 
    

  
  

z ‘ser

one thi ne L
_ squad. The small turnout of new men, assured veterans of their
_-—s«épositions, and dispelled any doubts as to the possibility of a com_---—s-#petitors. This naturally caused the players to slacken up in the
_---——spractice sessions. Then too, after a man has played for several
seasons, he begins to lose interest; the game becomes more or less
routine; thrills he once experienced, now disappear; and finally
he cares little whether he plays or not. Most college athletes,
to whom football is just an interlude in their university career,
will tell you the same thing. It is inevitable.
. Nevertheless, Dalhousians want a winning team. To have
one, we need a professional coach, more competition, stauncher
- support from the students, and a general toning up of interest
in the grand old British game. Football has always been the
major sport at the College by the Sea. We must not let it die.
For its intrinsic value as a builder of physical character is indubitable. When, long years hence, the many effervescent incidents
of college days have faded trom our memories, the associations
connected with the gridiron game will be cherished links with the
happiest period in our lives.

ee
a
”

i | _ SPECIALIZATION—AND BIOGRAPHY.

a : : The most salient feature of modern learning is undoubtedly
the ever-increasing trend toward specialization. This tendency
. is often deplored as dangerously destructive, and such criticism
Bes certainly seems justified. Never before in the history of the
___ world has accurate scientific knowledge been so cumulative, and
never before has there been so much confusion as to its proper
ee h.. meaning. The specialist, engrossed in the esoteric mysteries of his
or own investigation, is usually unaware of the results of fellow| ~—~sworkers in other lines. Or, if he is acquainted with the results,
| _ he is unable to appreciate their significance for science as a whole.
_ The gigantic chaos of accumulated facts defies interpretation;

a analysis leaps and synthesis lags. Truly, this might be described
eS as an age where knowledge is so great that we really know nothing.
aes: What we have Jost is our total perspective, and what we need

| is some method of unifying our erudition. In the past, it was
i comparatively easy for a genius like Aristotle or Leonardo to
possess a comprehensive grasp of every field of learning. To-day,
, no one dares to survey life in its entirety, or to say with Bacon,
| “I have taken all knowledge for my province.’’ We fear the
ines experts, and hug our narrow specialties for safety’s sake. The
-_—_—__— result is that everyone knows his part, but is ignorant of its mean
pet: ing in the play. Where, indeed, can a synthetic factor be found?
Ta |. Perhaps in biography. This study tracing as it does the
ane. personal life-history of an individual, and concentrating on the
Dae 3 pene human side of human nature, may provide us with a
Ba. thread which we can use to string our innumerable isolated facts
| —~—s into some semblance of unity. For ultimately, the thing that
to unites a Pasteur, a Darwin, an Einstein and an Osler, is the fact
| -_ that they all belong to the human race, and in virtue of this, have
1

_---—s experienced all the feelings characteristic of ordinary men and
| ~women. It is out of these feelings that their achievements in
| —”—s#Science have arisen. On the bedrock of human nature their
Lae. _ ‘Successes have been planted. And because biography studies
this, what one might call the highest common factor which joins
all great minds, it perhaps offers a partial synthesis.
i A few m dern universities, appreciating the potentialities oj
_ such a study, have established departments of biography on their
_ curriculums. Naturally, of course, the methods of teaching are
erimental and tentative. But the attempt is praiseworthy,
1ay be that a partial palliative has been found for the un
and colossal fragmentation of contemporary learning.

      
 

mn

-CESSCS

   

 

 

re has not been enough competition for places on the

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

_ The British Elections.
Empire Free Trade.

The National Government has achieved a great victory, a victory amaz-.
ing, complete, and without pnrallel in
British Parliamentary history. The
result of the polls has renewed the
confidence of other nations in Britain
and the confidence of the British nation
in itself. A great issue was involved;
petty considerations were thrust aside
to answer it. The majority of the
electors have responded nobly to a
plea not lacking in nobility.

New Commoners, 550 strong and
four-fifths of them labelled Conservatives, stand elected to support the
National Cabinet. Through them the
Cabinet is armed with the ‘doctor’s
mandate” it sought. That loyal response of the people carries as its counterpart a heavy responsibility for those
to whom it was given. It devolves
upon the elected to honour their
trust by standing shoulder to shoulder
to face unequivocally the nation’s
problem, as shoulder to shoulder stood
the British electors to give them their
authority.

Mr. Henderson, defeated leader of
the pitiable remnant of Opposition,
sees the new House as a “mockery of
democratic Parliamentary representation” and a ‘‘danger of disaster’’ to
great national interests. His statement may contain something beyond
the “sour grapes’ of defeat. The
Prime Minister himself qualified his
gratification by stating that the ‘‘very
emphasis of the response is embarrassing’’ and appealing for ‘‘forbearance
as well as confidence.’”’ In moments
of great enthusiasm it is wel! to have
heed for the danger that may be.

First we might make the trite observation that miracles cannot be
expected of any government. Then
we suggest a danger. Generally speaking, the larger a majority the more
difficult it is to hold it together. Here
an overwhelming majority will probably be asked to support a Ministry
dealing with that most dangerous of
public questions—the application of
a tariff to a free-trade country. A
large majority of the majority and a
majority of the-House belongs to a
party avowedly in favour of protection.
There we submit is the crux of the
matter. Tariff is a breeder of corruption for tariffs may bring great profit
to private interests, There is temptation for Members safely elected, and
for a party. That is putting the
blackest face upon the situation, and
probably needlessly so since Mr. Bladwin has pledged his word to keep the
Government ‘‘national.”” But we do
submit that, with the potential irresponsibility of an overwhelming majority plus the temptations of the issue,
there is a danger that this tariff may
not be disinterestedly applied. If
such be the case, andl the National
Government falls from its high plane
of public service, Britain may not yet
be headed out of the woods.

The imminence of a British tariff
as a consequence of the elections has
revived interest in the possibility of
Empire economic integration. Lord
Beaverbrook, prince of Empire Free
Traders, very evidently gloats over
the outcome and interprets it as an
endorsation of his policy. Meanwhile
voices speak in Ottawa and their words
are enthusiastic,

It will be remembered that at the
last Imperial Conference the Canadian
Prime Minister made a speech enrning
for him the title of ‘‘blunt Mr. Bennet.”’
He laid on the table a_ proposition
which, if merely illustrative in details,
was very concrete in principle. He
officially stated that Canada was willing
to grant tariff preferences on British
goods in return for a preference on
Canadian products imported to Great
Britian. Such was the foundation of
an inter-Imperial Preference and the
sister Dominions acquiesced in the
idea. But Britian had been a free
trade country nigh unto a century and
policies of long standing are not easily
altered. The British quid pro quo to
the Dominion offer involved the abandonment of free trade. So the Labour
Government, perhaps somewhat regretfully, was constrained to say no.
So the matter was held up by British
unwillingness te tax importations of
raw materials.

Now the scene has changed. There
is a to be a reversion to tariff in the
high citadel of Free Trade. Now
those who would bargain with preferences within the Empire have something to work on, It is understood
that a new conference will be called,
a conference to do the workjof this
summer Ottawa conference which did
not meet. It is not beyond the realm
of possibility that some working basis
can be found whereby the Old Country
and some of the Dominions mutually
profit—or at least do not hurt one
another. If so, great things are in
the offing. It might presage a united
Empire as against the world—an unfortunate thing. It might mark the
beginning of the end for tariff walls
about the nations and the first breaking
down of those economic barriers which
precede the peace of the world—a
different and much more pleasant
thing.

Ww __

Geology walks by night seem to be
taking the place of the usual dance
or show, so it seems? The evidence
for this rumour lies in the fact that
Ruth Crandall returned late one night
with her coat literally covered with
the lovliest brown burs, That clinging
kind you know,

 

Finding that a lot of plaster and
stone had been removed from the
Shirreff Hall dining room a Freshette
inquired, ‘What are they doing that
for?” The Senior replied—‘Oh they
needed more material for the new
gym,

November 5th, 1931

 

 

THE

PASSING BLOW ||| CONTEMPORARIES

Hoodlums at Glee Club.
Wanted a Humorist.
Yale Abandons Latin.

 

A week ago to-night the Glee Club
presented a show in the Navy League
building. This year, as everybody
knows, the Club is labouring under
heavy disadvantages; for it has
neither any stage property nor even
a home of its own. For these reasons
the officers of the Club are deserving
of much credit and of the cooperation
of all Glee Club fans in the shows they
do put on. And another feature of
Wednesday nights performance that
ought to have appealed to the sporting
instincts of the audience was the
predominance of freshmen in the cast
of the play and in the various numbers.
But in spite of all these circumstances
the Navy League Theatre was the
scene of a rowdyism that would have
disgraced a High School performance,
let alone that of a university, The
players were interrupted and on more
than one occasion it was made almost
impossible for the performance to go
Nor were the offenders all fresh
on.
men. Whatever the quality of the
show, such conduct can incur only

the severest condemnation. We would
like to see the Executive of the Glee
Club ascertain who were the offenders
and banish them from Glee Club
shows for the remainder of the term.

 

 

We need a humorist. The Parliament of Canada has its
that of England its Churchill, but at
Dalhousie we seem to have none to
whom we may turn for a_ hearty
laugh. Surely the mantles of Graham
Allen and Kelly Morton have descended
upon somebody. How long it seems
since Dr. Todd was the object of a
sly sally and even Herbie’s Scotch
montrosities pass unchallenged these
days. Geology 10 itself will probably
be taken seriously before long unless
a new humorist arises to warn yesterdays freshmen, No applications are
necessary. Just send in your stuff,
We stand the law-suits.

 

 

At Yale,a movement that was well
underway in 1922 has at last culumin
ated in the elimination of an ancient} morals for party interest.

language as a prerequisite for a B. A.
degree.

After the war a degree of Ph. B.
was offered by Yale University, a degree very similar to the B. A. degree
but not subject to the ancient language
requirement. When the arguments for

  

FROM OUR

After Beauharnois
—The Uproar.

Professor of Hunting

and Fishing.

‘‘The Piping of Flutes’’.

It is rather pathetic to read the indignant editorials of the daily partisan
press against Professor MacKay’s nrticl
in October 15 MacLeans ‘‘After Beauharnois—What?” The = spectacle of
presumably sane, sober, and aged
editors vainly trying to tell this day
and generation that party politics in
Canada is nothing but sweetness and
light, makes us weep for the future
of our elders. Professor MacKay has
said, ‘‘the Liberal and Conservative
parties alike have become pensioners
of selfish interests.’’ Immediately our
Maritime newsheets, lacking the individuality of a jellyfish, and following
their ancient practice of running with
the hounds, copied the diatribes of the
Ottawa Journal against Professor MacKay, occasionally venturing to add a
little platitude of their own. In the
past they have smugly pointed the
finger of scorn at the United States
and thanked heaven that Teapot
Dome scandals were above the pure
Canadian mind, opportunely forgetful
of several incidents, beginning with
the Pacific Seandal, that have rather
blotted up our national escutcheon.
Now the merest child that has hung
around a country polling booth on
election day knows that there is something rotten in our politics, Yet
when a man with courage enough to
declare plainly what each voter knows
to be a fact, suggests where the improvement is to be made, these supposed guardians of public freedom
instead of looking at the matter with
open eyes and a clear head, come from
their editorial kennels and yelp insults,
identifying Professor MacKay with
soap-box orators and flannel-mouthed
Communists. There are over a thousand students here at Dalhousie, and
very few but will support the charge
that our political system needs reform
badly; a system that forces a politician
whether he will or no to pocket his
In the
kingdom of the blind the one-eyed man
is king; but in the light of the present
discussion it would seem that our
daily press has nearly lost the sight of
its remaining eye. It is time that
student opinion should be mobilized
against the absurdities of the partisan

abandoning compulsory Latin came | P4P&Ts
strongly to the fore, a survey was made
of the B, A. candidates and the Ph. B.
candidates. Superficially, it seemed
conclusive in demonstrating the value
of the study of Latin (for the purposes
of this article the other ancient languages may be neglected).

This value was supposed to be in the
disciplinary effect of Latin study,
Significantly, no one talked about the
cultural value of the subject. Whether
culture is acknowledged a dying element in a college, or whether it was
realized that a good translation was a
more fruitful path to the treasures of
Greece and Rome than the average
students reputed reading in the original,
isa matter for conjecture.

In 1930, however Latin was again
put to the test and this time the test
was made by modern statistical
methods. Latin was found wanting.
Its disciplinary value is practically
zero. That means, in effect, this;
that the training undergone in the
study of Latin is of no value in the
study of other subjects. This is in
line with the opinions of modern
psychologists who believe that the
mental agility attained in one sudy is
only transferred to the study of a
closely related subject. The study
of Latin did help in Romance languages,
Ancient History and Geology.

This method was employed in the
test. Seventy-one groups were chosen,
homogenous in their studies except

as to Latin. Thirty of these groups
showed no benefits attached to the
study of Latin. Some of them suggested disadvantages. Fourteen

groups were contradictory and gave
results without value for the investigation. When the evidence afforded
by the remaining twenty-seven groups
had been threshed out, it was found
that in four fields Latin had been of
value. Two of these fields were in
History; one was in French; the last
was in Geology. These benefits did
not extend to modern history or to
courses in history major. In the case
of Geology they were vitiated when
geology was not taken until the senior
year.

And so another frontier has been
taken; the old Fidia of a University
has made one more retreat.

 

Limericks

There was a young frosh, I remember,
Who came down to Dal in September;
He ran round like hell
And all seemed to go well,
But they plucked the poor nut in
December.
There was a freshette at Dalhousie
Who came to class unkempt and
frowsy,
When the Prof, asked her why,
She replied, with a sigh,
“IT can’t wash, it’s so late when they
rouse me.”’

of Evil.

   

   
    
    
     
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
     
  
   

 

   
  
           
    
     
    
        

The story of the duckling who
wanted to be utterly other and frightfully modern and mad finds many
parallels in the field of education,
especially in the United States. The
latest freak is Rollins College in Florida.
Some two years ago a Course in Evil
was begun with a female as Professor
The latest addition to the
faculty is to be a Professor of Hunting

and Fishing who will teach not merely

the ethics of baiting a hook and loading

a gun but an appreciation of the wild,
to know the peace and beauty of woods
and
the appointment thus:

lakes. The President explains

‘fA Professor

 

The
OBSERVER’S

Column

 

Potter Oyler is thinking of taking
up Fisheries.

The Freshettes were very puzzled
this year as to whether Harriet Matheson, Mollie Freeze or Kay Hebb was
Hall! President.

Yes, Joe College, they’re smoking
at the “‘Hall’’ now—on the first and
second floors and on the first floor wing,
So Doone Macdougall of the House
Committee told us; but, she added—
“not on the ground floor; they want to
keep it decent.”

While we're on the subject, we might
mention that the girls are allowed to
smoke in the reception room, provided
they are entertaining someone, Well,
Howard Kennedy went to Choral
Society last week with a double package of Turrets, which disappeared in
the record time of one and a half
minutes. Truly the Choral Society
has degenerated since the days when
Ella Jackson served ham sandwiches.

 

 

“Tickets for the Elkin sweepstakes”
—twenty-five cents a chance, How
can you win if you don’t play— And
there was Lib Murray selling tickets
on Gordie Elkin’s—“automobile.”

It costs money to take up flying, so
fellow students, give the youthful
aviator a helping hand. Gordie is
making a non-stop, trans-Fundy flight
to Saint John this week-end and even
the Pine Hill dance couldn’t keep him
back—or, rather, down.

 

 

of Hunting and Fishing will fill an important place. It is just as important
to know how to make a camp and cook
a meal in the woods as it is to have an
acquaintance with Roman _ history;
as essential to appreciate the open
country as to be able to speak French’’,
His last remark is probably quite true,
but for a college to enter into direct
competition with the Boy Scouts
seems a bit too much. Up in this
neck of the woods at least a boy at
fifteen could pass any examination
in hunting and fishing with ease.

When the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest, it is
more than probable that the University of Toronto ‘Varsity’ and the
Toronto daily press will still be throwing verbal mud-pies at each other.
The latest fracas arose from a slight
initiation accident which gave some
hungry news-hounds a chance for
lurid headlines in the most approved
tabloid manner. It seems typical of
the daily press generally to treat the
university as a hotbed of sedition and
anarchy. Even our staid local organs
took time out to become sarcastic
during initiation this fall, and devoted
editorials to prove the inherent moronic
tendencies of the college student.
The Varsity after gently castigating
the Toronto papers with several choice
epithets including the alliterative ‘sham
scandal-suckers’ concludes: ‘‘All of
the supposed noise that one hears
periodically drifting south from the
campus is only the piping of flutes,
which under the amplifiers of the
Turonto Press sounds like an earthquake.”

 

Drop in and see the Dalhousie Sweaters and House Coats

 

better styles

coats

better fabrics
better tailoring

for less money

this fall we are featuring suits and over
at prices much

below that of former
years-----but----
with no change in quality
or workmanship

------=--for fine clothes
reasonably priced--------
Shanes Mens Wear Shop

30 Spring Garden Road

- Discount of ten per cent. to Students «
 
   
   
    
       
   

ONO eRe | ae ee ewe eee ee

we

 

a

Uysterious Disappearance of Aggie
= McSnort |

| : ee rae as Perhaps no single word in the English

oh. ~ ‘ . ie .
ae Campus Queen Missing-- languas represents an educational
_ Elopes in Father’s Pants | ideal like Oxford. It is replete with
memories and associations; it is a
name to conjure with. So the feet of
all academic persons tend towards the
city of palaces beside the classis Isis;
a loadstone drawing them hither from
all over the world. For the second
time in my life I find myself here, at
leisure to look about me, and to learn
what a traveller may about this ancient
citadel of learning.

Twenty years ago I was an Oxford
man, for one whole day, and lived in
college rooms as the guest of D. C.
Harvey, Rhodes Scholar and Dalhousie
graduate. It was a day of days, the
last of the great annual festival known
as Eights Week, so called because boats
of eight oars race one another in the
river. I witnessed three ‘‘bumps;”’
I had tea in the Queen’s barge, and I
had the honor of dining in hall with the
victorious crew. I even attended chapel the next morning, in order to be,
as far as possible the complete undergraduate. Queen’s is unchanged. It
is today as I ‘saw it two decades ago.
The portal opens from the street upon
a startling impression of green and grey
and scarlet—emerald lawns bordered
with vivid geraniums, and the four
massive stone walls of the first quad}|rangle for background.

From one learn all! All the colleges
are built conor eaerantiee one nearly
a = all cultivate the famous green lawns in
., hes Bg Ent oad - Student the midst thereof; and ail rear flowers
Bo rhe Toclanmned in hia best police- | Wherever possible; for love of flowers
. ; ee new ‘We are on the trail |'% 2 English trait. In Boe some

Sof all former lovers of our dear, Queen | Possess large es — ts
and developments are expected hour- really spacious parks, For the or
ly", There is no truth in the rumor, part, the colleges form one labyrinthine

: : fortification of learning between and
: . f vd Ree Sie ae ae pega about the High Street and the Broad,

Pees as ee : ; with outlying ravelins or bastions, like
E confidenties erica exclaimed “1 am| Crist Church and Pembroke to the

: : : south, and Wadham and Worcester
ee iondlicst to the north. Learned Oxford stands
and the night she was abducted I pk from the busy modern city of

' ee - : * e same name.
as home playing edalyiwinks, with] "the" Adventures of Mr, Verdan
Confirmation from that young lady is Green” is still on sale in the Oxfor

laetd . book-shops. It represents the typical
Jacking how revere —{F0. ke continued: ) experiences of a Victorian undergrad
uate, and although the author never
-was at Oxford, his work is accepted as
a faithful portrayal by all who know
life at the university. One experience
was a wine supper, in the course of
which Mr. Green boasted somewhat
thickly of his academic status, proclaiming himself an ce are
ee raat Nak ede Sent . > |gen’l’m’n, an’ prou’ title.” ackinwe re Date pocierd end pees eet cece, tats Jellaludin, it will be remembered,
Tas aie society and we believe it will very| 1.6 drunken loafer who sang ‘‘The
he

a

   

   
      

i i he

*“.

oo ig = ee oe at
Re Gloom, deep, horrible, and _ pene
trating has descended on the campus:
- __ for its beloved Queen is gone—nobody
seems to know where. Midst the
weeping, wailing, gnashing of teeth
and asphyxiating groans, Dalhousie
_. mourns her loss. Aggie McSnort is
no more. Her frantic mother, Lotta
McSnort, is prostrated with swollen
rlands from blaming the entire Footll Team in no uncertain terms.
Her father, Dooyew McSnort, is instituting suit thru his liar, 1 mean
lawyer, Charles W. Clarke, K. C. for
recovery of his only pair of pants.
Tt is claimed that he refused Hal
Connor’s famous Pair of Shorts in a
righteously indignant manner accompanied by a flood of tears. Sniff! Sniff!

. - Seemingly, during the twitching
hours of the early morn, our Queen
. left her room (825) in Sherriff Hall,
! as and since then none have seen or heard
__. of her. Room mates nearby claim to
i * have heard everything from men’s
- -—-—s voices to angels harps: one particularly
ss verbose young lady swears (nothing
stronger than darn) she heard shrieks

. and groans and a male voice singing
“Tf you knew that I still Loved You

~ Would You Take Me Back Again.’
Detective Inspector Watchme Snoop
has very cleverly propounded the

   

   
 
   
   
       
  

   
      
      
   
   
       
        
        
    
    
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
     
    
    
   
     
   
   
   
       
   
   
   
   
     
       
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
  
 
     
       
         
      
      
   
     
    
 
    
 
     
   
   
   
   
      
    
     
             
   
   
     

  

  

Cercle Francais
_--——-s«* Forty-eight French enthusiasts were |

_—sépresent at the first meeting of~ the
aay scat 1 Club, October 29th at Shirreff
; es ‘Ball. Professor Martin has certainly

 

 
 
    
   
   

 

   

         
  
 

   
 
   

Pa.

   

Png. ONE of Fae lt Song of the Bower” in the Kabul Serai
was also an Oxford man, and he com‘municated the fact to the author of
“Plain Tales from the Hills” with as

ie. Tr J ey ; ‘ 
meeting opened with Mr, A.
the. chair Sad an address

Martin not only instruc
morous was given.

 
      
         
  
   
    
 
     
    
  
     
   
   
  

Elec-|iimself the colonel of a British regi‘| ment. . A casual survey of Oxford will
explain the pride of the Oxonian, and
why he may come to regard himself
as superior to the rest of mankind.

Choral Society —

The first meeting of the Dalhousie
Choral Society was held in the reception room of Shirreff Hall on Monday evening, October 26th at 8 p. m.
There were a great number of people

resent, which was very encouraging.

r. Harry Dean is again going to
conduct the singing. He has great
plans for a program this year, and he
will be sure to get very good support
from the members of the society as
they showed great enthusiasm and

res oe Burns Adams; Vic
-esident— Miss Harriet Roberts;

__ Secretary-Treasurer—Mrs. F. Fraser.
eee” 1] ancing and refreshments brought
_.__ this successful meeting to a close. j
_--—”-—sn'- The object of forming this Club is
to learn to converse fluently and acNe curately in French. It is Professor
_---—s Martin’s desire to accomplish, this
through a jovial atmosphere. Therefore we promise you all who wish to
<3. become members that this society
-. _ will not be just another French I or

' II class, but co-operative group en
  
  

    

   
 

 

 
  
 
 

 

 
 
 
  

          
 
  
     
   
     
     
       
    

   

- deavouring to speak French along
interesting lines. The mastery ©
_-__- French becomes an asset to everyone
~~ and we hope that more will become
| interested in our French Club.

  

eo

> Fey.

rw 8
oe «

ee 7

  

 

 

committee will cooperate with Mr.
Dean to make this a successful year
The secretary is being allowed the
privilege to work with the Phil-Har
     
     
     
      
     
   
     
    
   
   
     
      
    
  
     
   
  
       
   
     
    
    
   
      
        

~~ at the Yacht Squadron on Friday,
October 29. This was the first freshman party of the year and credit is
due to the class officers for organizing

 
 

’ =h-,
. te
eer,

 
 

> such a good function, Harvey Web-| monica Society. The meetings will be
_ber’s orchestra provided very good|held Wednesday evening at 8 p. m.,
| __ music, and a pale moon reflected on}at Shirreff Hall. It is hoped that
quiet waters was a fitting asset. Re-| among the 1400 students of Dalhousie

there will be many who will join and
see what a pleasure it is to sing good
music, F

-__ freshments were served and if noise and

laughter is any sign of the success of a
me rty we may say this was enjoyable.
sa Retciaor and Mrs. Murray MacNeil

y eh Miss A. MacKeen ‘and Prof. R. Ells |
__ acted as chaperons.

pe =o
: —

Brefessor Copp:—Will you tell us Mr,
Williamson what is meant by *‘vacuum?”

Doe (after some hesitation):—I have
_—_—so itt in my head sir, but I can’t express

ey

  

ri s
The ‘current publication of the
Louisiana State Conservation Committee devotes a somewhat lengthy
article to the praise of Prof. Gowanloch, who is doing excellent work in
that state. A photograph of the exprofessor accompanies the article, and
it is worthy of note that he has grown a
mustache.

 
 
  
   

ee

 
 

Pes

   

     

  

i
‘|
fe hs
a
ea a a@ -_ - ;
Bult
F

The New

: F all Society Brand

.

      

  
 
 

as

LS styles are advanced, correct and
a ae distinguished. The woolens are
a rich, strong and exclusive. The

workmanship isthe last word in
cg auality and expertness, and inBis sf cludes exclusive tailoring features
a) like the SNUG-EASE SHOULDER
and the VAC BLOC ARMHOLE

C btain greater value for your dollar in Society iu
a. Clothes than in any other make we know of

y inter-Burns, Ltd.

439 BARRINGTON STREET.

cence al eae

eae se el

   

- - Glimpses of Oxford

a = Ee
By DR. ARCHIBALD MACMECHAN

 

much pride as if he had announced |

' free of all the rest.

 

ae 6é 9? interest. ‘The first he meeti
ani . $ part of the meeting
a Class 35 Holds was devoted to the election of oe
ex. | Howard Kennedy was re-elected presi: Wy, n r arty dent, Winifred Kielan was elected viceae président, Ruth Crandall secretary |
A very successful class party was held| and Russell McSween treasurer, This

1

~ ma o

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

e _| Pine Hill Notes

We are glad to have Don Archibald
back with us again after a brief visit
to the Victoria General. His rapid
recovery has been attributed by experts to constant ministerial attention.

 

He has, | take it, the pride of possession. 
“Creation’s heir, the world, the
world is mine!’’ he may exclaim exultingly with Goldsmith, only the Oxford
man's world is the microcosm of the
University. Itis a small working model of the great world with most of the
disagreeable features omitted. Youth,
Health, Sport, Comradeship, Leisure
are its component parts. Oxford is a
city of palaces populated by some three
thousand favored young men. It is
theirs to have and to hold, to use and
to enjoy for months or years. They
live familiarly with historic walls o
countless memories. Even the commonplace process of eating meals is
dignified by the presence of the great
and wise in their effigies looking down
upon the scene. In the end, the
collegian must come to regard his
college as his possession, and his home.
He leaves it with regret and contracts
a permanent nostalgia -for it. Dul
would he be of soul who could consort
with such influences as Oxford releases, and remain unmoved.

Fair is the heritage of the monks of
Magdalen. The college extends from
the beautiful tower, which stands
sentry by the bridge across the Cherwell,
far up the High Street to Long Wall
Street. Magnificent as is this varied
facade, it gives no hint of what lies
hidden behind. Entrance is by a low
and humble gateway, which admits the
visitor to a fair open space and a complex of buildings known as St. Swithun’s Quad. This saint’s tomb is in
Winchester; and his day is a theme for
much comment every rainy summer.
To the right is another quadrangle,
carpeted with greensward and surrounded by cloisters over which ramp a
a menagerie of gargoyles. Another
low-vaulted passage admits to a broad
green lawn divided by gravel walks,
bounded by a range of heavy, plainfaced eighteenth-century ‘‘rooms,”’
planned like barracks. They oppose
in complete contrast the Gothic buildings on the other side of the lawn; and
their plainness is brightened by alternate bushes of pink and scarlet geraniums planted at the foot of the
cloister piers, and by green vine sswarming up the walls. The morning sun
has shone brightly this autumn on this
secluded place, making a_ pleasant
retreat for musing and meditation.

But this is notall. Tothe rightis no
wall but a long bank of flowers, pierced
by a tall iron gateway which suggests
Versailles. It opens on a little bridge
across a stream of running water, and
into Addison’s Walk, a shady green
alley skirting a park. Under the trees
was a herd of fallow deer, as tame as
sheep, graceful, slight, weak-looking
creatures with brown dappled sides.
Two antlered stags have charge.

Even this is not all. There is still
another spacious garden the special
preserve of the monks, but barred with
iron against the visitor and stranger.
Happy enough are those, who are

 

 

Livingstone Millar, in conjunction
with his equally noted brother Jim,
is prepared to give instructions in the
apparently difficult art of*‘ piloting”
a motorcycle. Livingstone conducts
the theoretical side of this popular
course while Jim applies the theory
to the road and occasionally to the
motorcycle. Those who already have
an aversion for the practical side of
life are not encouraged to go beyond
the first part of the course. Those who
have taken the second part and
survived, protest that it approximates
more than anything else ‘‘a study in
still life,”’

 

Gordon Fraser accompanied by
George McLean and Theodore Cox
motored home to Pictou County for
the Hallowe’en week-end. © Theodore
deplores the restraint on liberty in
Halifax: ‘‘Why in Hopewell y’u can
put all the fire-crackers y’u like off—
an’ big ones too.”’

Some of the boys declare that the
Pine Hill column will contain an
obituary one of these days. Which
goes to show how right the poet was
when he wrote ‘“‘The path of glory
leads but to the grave.”

We want to know what attraction
in Glace Bay accounts for the recent
visit paid that place by Fraser Nicholson and Bill Bennett—especially Bill
Bennett.

 

 

 

When Russell McSween was denied
entrance to the Vic, General to see his
sick room mate he used the gullibility
of the nurses to solve his little problem nicely. Russells future title is
nes Russell McSween, Pine

ill.

 

Engineering Notes

Events during the past week have
been rather quiet in the Engineering
Society. However with their decisive
victory over Freshmen in the Interfaculty football League, the Engineers
feel rather sure of their section and
Manager Mackie wears a broad smile.
There are, however, a few who claim
George’s smile was absent the day of
the 3-all tie with Arts and Science.

The Drafting room still furnishes
lots of work and some amusement to
all Engineers. The other day Charlie
Bacon was heard loudly calling for his
30-60-90 degree triangle while Max
Fishman drew a prominent Engineer
to one side and asked him if he would
oe hike enough to direct him to Shirreff

all.

 

=

Professor Bennett:—‘‘What's the most
common impediment in the speech
of American people?”’

Bill Mitchell: —‘‘Chewing-gum.”’

Notice

The Librarian wishes to
draw the attention of the
Students to the following
Library regulations.

1. THE LIBRARIAN IN
CHARGE CONTROLS THE
ISSUE OF ALL BOOKS.

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments
and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2. A FINE OF TEN
CENTS PER DAY _ IS # certs war day
LEVIED ON ALL OVER
NIGHT BOOKS NOT RETURNED BY 10 A. M.
OF THE DAY FOLLOWING ISSUE.

3. A FINE OF FIVE
CENTS PER DAY IS
LEVIED ON ALL OTHER
BOOKS NOT RETURNED
WITHIN THE TWO
WEEKS ALLOWED.

The Library Hours are:

Mon. to Fri.

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street.

 

 
    
     
     
       
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

HAVE WE

 

9.00 A.M.—6.00 P.M. FORGOTTEN
7.30 P.M.—9.45 P.M.
Saturday
9.00 A.M.—1.00 P.M.
2.30 30 P.M

P.M.—5.

 

In The Evening

 

For evening refreshment,

Should Say We
Have.

We're going to get fit
choose The Green Lantern.
All foods, drinks and Ice
Cream are the best quality

  

and moderately priced.
ted out with those snappy

new Dal. Sweaters, and

The Green Lantern

 

at the same time, see

some of the new—

Slazenger and

 

Spalding
Badminton Rackets

at

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

 

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

21 Spring Garden Road

The Student Forum

A Column devoted to Comment and Controversy

 

The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir,

In regard to Professor Thomdson’s
article in to day’s Gazette, I wish to
say that I heartily agree with him in
his suggestions and in his ideas as to
what this paper should publish. I
would like to differ with him on one
point. Professor Thomdson says in
his first paragraph ‘‘At best magazines
are an insidious device for wasting
time, at worst they should be publicly
named for corrupting the quiet of the
fellings of the state,’”’ This is a
generalization and it has been said
before that generalizations are dangerous. I believe that magazines are at
their best a valuable means of spreading
news and ideas, of encouraging thought
and consideration, and of fostering
public opinion, At their worst magazines are a source of diversion and
enjoyment. By reading magazines
published in other places we come in
contact with ideas, interests and
opinions of other people. Where would
we be if we thought of our own small
part of the world, of our own troubles,
our own activities? This is an age of
world-wide interest for all people. We
want to know what is going on in other
countries. We want to know what
they think about the topics of the day.
In turn they want to know what we
think about such things. Hence our
publications are made of interest to
others as well as to ourselves. If
Professor Thomdson considers that
reading a magazine article on some
topic of general interest and of educational value is wasting time then |
humbly beg to differ with him. True

some magazines are used to stir up
ill feeling among the people of the
country but looking at it from another
angle I consider that these so called
“corrupters of the quiet feelings of
are sometimes needed to

the state’’

   

ty ta x ,
IF i?

.
ey

  
 
 
 

 

Leather Goods

Portfolios, Trunks
Bags and Luggage of
all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

 

 

 

 

awaken the dormant spirit of the
average citizen. For example, let us
view the political situation in this
country. Few, far too few realize the
seriousness of the tangle, of the mess
we are in. Here is a place for an
energetic and live magazine to step
in and bring back to life that ‘‘dormant”’ spirit. Yet we know this is
impossible. A publication needs only
to “yelp”? once or twice and it is
quietly forced to consider its policy.
There isn’t one live progressive magazine that will urge on this public
feeling. Surely Professor Thomdson
can not disagree with me on this point.
Surely he can see that in such a case
a magazine could usefully stir interest
and opinion and even perhaps bring
about reform. It has been done
before. Naturally I don’t suggest that
the Gazette turn radical, and violently
attack the government, society and the
world at large, but I do suggest that
it make a decided effort to foster a
spirit of independence, a spirit of free
thinking, of deep thinking. Let us
look at things as they are, not as we
would like to have them. In short,
let us be realists. 
Such types of magazines as ‘'De
 

tective Thrills’, “Heart Throbs’’ and
“Murder Yarns” are generally considered rather degrading in their

appeal to the public, but I believe that
there is a type of magazine which |

interests the average person and |
afords him a certain amount of en- |
joyment and relaxation, If we con
sider this type we must conclude that
it is not a time waster and a corrupter of peace and quiet but a means
by which we can obtain diversion and
a mental relief from our cares,

I humbly beg your pardon, Mr.
Editor, for disturbing the peace of
the “Student Forum”,

Yours Sincerely,
Darrow Blandford

 

    
  
 
 
 
    
 

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.

More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six.

 

 

 

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

IMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 
        
   
 

   

 

 

 

 

   
   
  

 

os se ies ek : DALHOUSIE GAZETTE November’ 5th, 1934
ope ER ORT aie | a : : eee 2
U.K. C. Notes|Tigers TakeGame| Dental Notes Engineers Trim |Wanderers Defeat) Poppy Day
et * F, (Continued from page 1) The dentals ushered in their first Freshmen Cubs ee

 

 
 

  

PEAT ee Lew Pe where the Wanderers were hard pressed | Social event of the year with one of hee : The Legion is in great need of girls
eos | ted ae Gh es e Dalhousie} t© stop them from scoring, They did| their very enjoyable stag smokers in] On Thursday the Engineers made] Wanderers won the right to meet/to sell poppies in town on Saturday
Bite G azette, it seems only fitting that a not do so for long, for ten minutes had the Munro room on Friday evening.|sure of a berth in the Interfaculty| King’s for the Intermediate City League} morning. An organization meeting

A large number of students and professors turned out to hear the chief
speakers of the evening Dean Thompson
who gave a very interesting sketch
of his recent trip to Europe asa delegate
to various dental meetings held in
Europe during the past summer
Speakers included Drs. Hennigar, Woodbury, Chudlie, and Beckwith. Smokes
and apples were also in evidence, but

rugby title by defeating the Dal second
team by a 10-6 score in the final game
of the schedule at the Studley field
last Saturday. The teams went on the
field in a deadlock for first place, with
a win, a loss, and a tie apiece, and
staged a bitter fight for victory. There
was not much to choose between them,
the Red and Black getting a couple of

playoffs by handing the Freshmen a 14
to 0 trimming. The game had plenty
of thrills, spills and bumps and while
very little football was played there
was lots of interest evident. Dickie,
former first team man, scored eight
points for the winners and was the
outstanding player on the field. Harris
and Taylor also tallied. The Fresh
not passed before Drover started the
play that ended in a score. Intercepting a pass, Drover chalked up the
finest run of the game, making a 75yard dash to be brought down. by
Edwards on the Wanderers’ five-yard

will be held Thursday evening of this
week in the Nelson Hall of the Navy
League building at 8.15, Will volunteers
kindly hand their names in to Ruth
Macaulay.

section of the Gazette be set aside for
_  ____ King’s College news. It is hoped that
_ by this column the furtherance of
phe eS. even more friendly relations between
ene epee Me pues peiden ts ,

_ __— Bringing them into closer touch WIT) |iine. From the scrum Drover got the
a each’ot er will be accomplished. ball and passed to Phon-cssn, who

went over for the first and only try

 

‘‘They shall not grow old, as we that
are left grow old:
Age shall not weary them nor the

ss Over fifty rooters accompanied the
wh Eng e ake team to Wolfville on Stoddard failed to con_ Saturday last, when the first game of
the Nova Scotia Intercollegiate playoffs was staged between King’s and
_. Acadia, Despite the fact that the
team lost by a one-sided score, King’s
_ supporters feel that their team will be
able to even the series by taking the
game in Halifax next Saturday, which
would necessitate a third game on
neutral ground. King’s already have
- one victory to their credit over Acadia
_ in an exhibition game.

Two platoons of the Canadian
Officers Training Corps have been
formed at King’s this year, and great
- interest in the scheme, an innovation

at this college, is being taken by the
students.

 

_ The first issue of the King’s College
Record, a college publication, which is
printed five times yearly, came off
the press on Friday, and is being
faborably commented upon by the
King’sstudents. The October number,
containing many new features introduced by the new staff, comprises 64
ee +. a pages of interesting material composed
Be. Of articles, stories, poetry, and college
_. news. ~The Editor-In-Chief of the
"Record this year is J. S. Martell, who

_ has with him as Associate Editors G.
ae, C. Brittain, H. F. Muggah, R. D.
- Duchemin, T. W. Crawford, Miss
Dora Baker, and Miss M. Hibbard.

Members of the pamuel ae Parli.. ment are preparing for the first session
~~ of the Houses hich will be held in the
~ near future. At the annual elections

_which were held recently, the Social- Fundamentalists were re-elected to
ss power by a narrow majority over each
of the other two parties, gaining 42
—. seats; while the Conservatives won 32,
_ and -the Liberals 24. The Premier
 

 

 

elect is John Andrew, while John Hebb
| will guide the destinies of the Con_-—s gervative party in the new house.
-_._-John Crowe leads the Liberal party,

which suffered a severe reverse in the
is _ elections. An interesting sesson of
_ ~~‘ Parliament is expected, in view of the
feo 3 o>. fact: that."The Social-F undamentalists
_-—-— have not a majority over all parties in

. "1
; 7
bea | 7

ie “lev

.

_ a

es;
m”
,

Bee _ the House. c
pal” i 7 e

   

Jim MacDonald

*

___ Bye-Election ©

»

Tay

---——s«sTn @ bye-election held the other day
to fill the senior class seat in the Student
Council made vacant by the absence
- of Drummy MacGregor, James
MacDonald Commerce '32 was elected.

 

 

in
as
—

 

r

'

i

ees The Gazette wishes to correct an

| £ -error which inadvertently occurred in

. the report of the Freshman Glee Club
Show published in our last issue. The

: feminine lead in the one act play

‘Enter the Hero’’ was taken by Miss

Frances Huntley, not by Miss Janet

Macneill as was previously stated.

 

Armistice Day

Wednesday, Nov. 11th will be a
4 University holiday. The Gazette will
| ~~~ come out on Thursday of that week.

| Commencing the following week the
aS regular Gazette day will be Wednesday.

 

a

_| CASINO

| MAURICE

/
'

 

3 |
= | CHEVALIER
ct a iy By SPECIAL REQUEST!
ae? | —IN—es ; : eye
a K‘The Smiling
a Lieutenant”
1. . | Thur.-Fri.-Sat.

. ~ | “The SPIDER
||. With EDMUND LOWE
rae yl LOIS MORAN
- }]|_El Brendell, Una Merkel
ee” ‘ ee

oe

rf


JOE MILLS

of the game.
vert, but that three-point lead was as
good as twenty, for though the visitors
tried hard for the remaining sixty
minutes, they failed to get past the
hard tackling and defensive work of the
Dal players.

Heavy showers before the game
converted an already wet field into a
deplorable condition, and intermittent
rain as the game progressed made the
ball difficult to handle, hampering the
Wanderers’ halves greatly. The Dal
forwards, however, found the going
to their liking, and dribled effectively,
following up the ball fast and making
long gains. Hewat’s kicking from
behind the scrum scored frequently,
and even the great Herman failed to
offset the long boots of Connor, Dal
fullback, who punted the pigskin in
sensational fashion. Stoddard,
Thompson, and H. Sutherland were
outstanding for the Tigers, while MacCoy, Buckley and Young played
effectively for the Wanderers.

Herman had three chances’ to score
on penalty kicks, but he failed to make
them good, the ball falling short,
though having the right direction.
Neither team was at full strength,
Dal being without Art Sutherland,
who was replaced by Thompson, and
there was nothing wrong with his
playing, and the Wanderers taking
the field without Timmie Hunter, who
is out of the game for the remainder
of the season through injuries. Piers,
Wanderers’ quarter, was injured in
the latter part of the game and was
forced to retire.

The second half was practically a
repetition of the first, with the territory
a little more evenly divided, however,
the Red and Black making desperate
attempts in the final ten minutes of
play to even the score, but the fine
defensive work of the Dal team kept
them at bay. The following are the
line-ups:

Wanderers;—Fullback, Edwards;
three-quarters, Piers, MacCoy, Lavers,
Marshall; halves, Buckley, Thompson,
Young; forwards, Oxner, Buffus,
Grant, Boyle, Dompierre, Hamilton,
Grant.

Dalthousie:—Fullback, Connor; three |

quarters, Drover, Thompson, Maxwell,
Stoddard; halves, H. Sutherland,
Hewat, Davidson; forwards, Cooper,
Stewart, Woolner, Murray, MacRae,
Baird, Sheppard.

Douglas Anderson refereed a difficult |
| game, without using his lungs to much
jextent on the whistle, an

letting a
good many questionable plays go unquestioned,

>

 

 

GARRICK

Wednesday and Thursday
CYRIL

MAUD

eet
“These

Charming
People”

      
     
     
      
    

  

Friday and Saturday

“Murder by the Clock”’

Evenings — 20 & 30
Matinee 25 Children 10

 

  
 

  
     

 

 

   

several of the boys preferred to bring
their own cigars.

We were very pleased to have with
us for several weeks a young lady
dentist, a graduate of University of
Odessa, who unfortunately was unable
to stay with us during the year

The boys although few in numbers
are however planning a good year in
sport as teams will be entered in all
interfaculty leagues with the exception
of football, here it was decided useless
to enter a team as our regular front
liners Hogan and Parker were not in
training, but we hope to have them in
condition by the time the ping-pong

league begins.
W. E. Taylor.

 

Gym. Notice

Next Wednesday in St. Mary’s
Gymnasium boxing and wrestling classes will be resumed under the direction
of Mr. Sterling. Bowling is already
underway, but all the facilities available in this sport have not yet been
taken advantage of.

Students are reminded that the
gymnasium is available on Tuesdays
and Thursdays from 12 o’clock until
two or two-thirty for bowling and on
Wednesday nights at eight o’clock for
boxing and wrestling. On Monday
and Friday nights at the same hour
it is available . for basketball and
games. General P. T. will precede
playing periods. For the purposes
of a general workout the gymnasium
is available to Dalhousie Students at
all times.

 

 

 

FROM THE

WINNERS Fro

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you piay the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

English Students ---
Have you purchased
your Theme Book?

—

Ours are the prescribed book
for all English classes. Complete with a re-fill of 50 sheets
which sell at 25c. this is one
of the best values we have to
offer. If in need of a note
book for the purpose of taking
notes of any description ask to
see this one.

: Our stock also includes other
ring books of equal value.

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

men all worked well together, having

no individual star, but the more ex
perienced opposition proved too much

for them. The line-ups:

Engineers:—Christie, Menzies, Lloy
Harries, Fisher, Ferguson,
Taylor, Mitchell, Morrison
Scott, Squires, Lodge,
MacDonald, Reod, Mickie.

Barnes, Mann, Smith, Cameron, Lawrence, McGrath,
Goudge, Spry, MacKasey,
Kent, Fisher, Gaum, Follender.

 

Frosh:

 

Drammy MacGregor Convalescing

 

 

The Class of 1932 has this year
suffered a loss in its personnel by the
enforced absence of Drummond MacGregor, one of the outstanding members, who has been forced to withdraw
from college because of illness. Mr.
MacGregor was elected to the Student’s
Council last spring and his non-return
necess.tated a by-elect.on for the
vacant office. At present, he 1s convalescing at Gravenhurst Sanatorium,
and will resume his studies next year.
The many friends, who correspond
with him, report that his interest in
Dalhousie doings is as great as ever,
and a speedy return to health is the
sincere wish of all.

—————— ee

The many friends of Vance Fraser,
fifth year Medical Student, who has
been confined in the Victoria General
Hospital with pneumonia are glad to
hear that he is much better.

 

All that is Refined
in Men’s Clothing is Yours
with the Fashion-Craft Label

   
   

 

INTER’S WINDS

and fashion’s demands
are equally well met in
the burly warmth butdistinguished styling
of these

FASHION-@RAFT,
OVERCOATS
VALUES SUPREME

from $9) 5

Fall Accessories

Sox Hats
Gloves Spats

Colwell

Brothers
Limited
HALIFAX

 

THE

VIED. DANCE

Mion. Nov. 16 - Nova Scotian Hotel | Special Novelties

TSP.M.

breaks that helped more than a little.
The first score came when the ball
bounded back on the field after hitting
the goal post from an attempted penalty
kick by the Wanderers, and Partigton,
following up fast, took the ball on the
rebound and raced over the line for the
touch. Oxley converted from an easy
angle. Borden Stoddard made a good
a penalty kick shortly betore the half
ended to make the score 5 to 3.
. The second half was evenly fought,
the Cubs having a trifle the better
of the play, although the Wanderers
started off early in the session with a
touch by Sperry that Oxley again
converted to make the score 10 to
Eagles made the final try for Dal near
the end of the period, but it was not
converted. The Dal line-up was as
follows: Fullback, Lorway; threequarters, Maxwell; Covert, Davis,
Theakston; halves, Brittain, B. Stoddars, Gore; forwards, Eagles, Menzies,
Archibald, A, Baird, Rowley, Goodwin,
McDonald.

$$ $a —_—_—___—
Robert’ Baird Captain ofthe Tigers
was the winner of the pen and pencil
set contributed by the Dal Store for
the scorer of the first touchdown of
the season for Dalhousie.

If You Want to See Well

See WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bldg. Halifax, N.S.

 

3. | shell-shocked,

years condemn.
At the going down of the sun and in the
morning
We shall remember them.”
Laurence Binyon.

Around the hallway of the Macdonald Memorial Library are many
bronze tablets. They commemorate
the Dalhousie men who went forth,
staking youth and aspirations for
an ideal. We honor them, we reverently respect their sacrifice. But what
of the others? Those who returned
shattered mentally or
physically leaving too much on the
field of their honor. These are they
whom age has wearied, there is little
glory in their martydom. It is by
aiding them that we may repay in
some small part that irreparable debt
we owe to those names on the bronze
tablets.

On Friday morning let the Dalhousie
students say,—

‘‘We will remember them.”

 

SS ee

Errata

Page two, column Comment,
third last line, please read preclude for precede.

Page two, column Passing Blow
second line of second paragraph,
please read Pouliot in blank space.

 

SUPPER DANCE

 

9 to 12 p. m.

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
HARRY COCHRANE’S ORCHESTRA

Cover Charge $1.00

Service A la Carte

The Lord Nelson Hotel

 

 

 

=,

Safe Value
Each. .

&,
A Showing Of Mens

Gaionio Overcoats

$25.00

EE the display of these new EATONIA coats featuring the popu
lar blues for Winter wear.

Navy chinchilla in ulster and slip-on

models, aiso dressy melton cloth coats in single or double breasted

models with velvet or self collars.

Eaton's Main Floor

“1. EATON

o
LIMITED

 

MES

Elaborate Supper
Unexcelled Music

 

 
