  

  

ee 7

si tt la

   

ae

      
 

ih he “\
E +

. ae

  

=
t

_ Gym Opening
Gigi ohne Draws Near

4

     
  
 

md
;
- i
A,
Z

Pt .-0  £8fY,
a |
 -Gym. Work is coming along well and
everything is as scheduled. Already
- gome of the equipment has arrived and
plans are being made for instalment as
soon as possible. The electricians are
bilay' with the stage lighting effects and
other special arrangements for the
lighting of the main floor. The last
coat of acoustic paint has been applied
to the walls. The carpenters are
_ starting the panelling on the walls of
the main gym. Carpentry work in the
smaller gym on the lower floor is completed. Erection of steel lockers is in
progress and tiling work in the men’s
and ladies’ shower rooms is practically
_ complete.

Contracts should be almost complet! ed by the 15th but the final arrange> ments and decoration -will take until
almost the last of the month. —
_. The Council of the Students,
in cooperation with the University
authorities has been working on a
. suitable program for the spening:
These opening ceremonies will be held
r. sometime between the 20th and the
end of February depending upon the

circumstances. © .
For the first evening an elaborate
_ program is scheduled. The Governors
- . ‘of the University are to be in atten| dance and it is expected that the
general public will be invited through
the medium of the local papers. The
Chairman of the Board of Governors,
President Stanley, and others will
speak. Through the Glee Club a
‘program of entertainment is to be
presented. This will include a threeact play, the Choral Society, and the
-_-- Dalhousie Symphony Orchestra. On
the following evening there will be a

for use by the end of the
" is the latest news about the

ani.

  
   

a. aL}

  

a
ws

¥\.4 a

 

 

 
      
  
   
 

   

‘basketball’ game with some visiting
yt ‘perl 2" . 5 .

lL. ‘University team. The game will be
= eed

   

en only to the students. Caterig will be supplied at a nominal charge
» individual, as at the Lord Nelson
eae Mi te Mie |

“a

| ras followed a Council dance, informal,
ia ; 4 . : i }

  
   

   

All Speeches
WP, hs

The Sodales extemporaneous debate staged last Wednesday evening
in the Munro Room was an unqualified
success for those who braved the
stormy weather to attend the meeting.
While the somewhat slim attendance
was a disappointment to the Executive
it operated in one way to the enjoyment of those present—everyone on
the floor participated at some time or
- another in the arguments. The ten
speakers selected to lead off were

requested to draw for position and
then as each came forward the Presi1% dent named the subject on which he
was to speak... Each of the speakers
succeeded in filling the five minutes
allowed him in a way which did credit

to the members of the Society.

Mr. Ben Rogers spoke first on the
subject ‘‘Life isfutile.”’ He was followed by

| _ Extemporaneous

Mr. Howse, a brother of Dalhousie’s leading debater of a few years
ago, speaking on the subject ‘‘Coasaviton is bunk.’’ Harry Suther
I land maintained that ‘Dalhousie stu
dents hold too many dances,” and Dan
Spry spoke in favor of the statement
that ‘‘Dalhousie should have a paid
coach.” Miss Dorothy Vernon supported the resolution that ‘‘Government stores should be closed for as
long as a Government relief program
is needed.” Potter Oyler favoured the
abolition of the C. O. T. C. in the
University. Raymond McCarthy held
forth on the resolution that ‘‘Fraternities at Dalhousie do not justify their
existence.”’ Donald Copp spoke on
“Specialization in undergraduate education is to be deplored.” ae Fisher
was assigned the topic “‘Government
ownership of industry is less efficien

: than private ownership.” Arthur Pat
| till favoured the abolition of Honours

.  eourses in the undergraduate years.

ye Th e leading speeches provoked some

lively Serneen.

 
   
   
   
   
  

  

The attack on the
2 OTs drew fire from Mr. MeSarthy who argued vehemently for
s retention in Dalhousie. This produced the most heated debate of the
ening and several speakers joined in
s fraternities found some stalwart
enders in another lively altercation
sett arch attacked the Pat.
esq position on Honours courses.
Sodales Executive is to be congratuted on introducing this type of
ogram. Not only does it make for
joyable evening but it unquesy conduces to the raising of
g ability in the college. If
nings of this general type are
» it is to be ho that
fon which they merit.

% any

      
  
 

  

"5
" 7 how?

 
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
  
  

   

dales Stages

Novel Debate

eal aE ee ce emir
er a Seog vote
, Lee 2) ; i

7

Glee Club to
Present Show

St. Andrew’s Hall, Coburg Rd.
(Next Arts Guild Theatre).

 

To-morrow night—8.15 o’clock.

 

One Act Play—Betrayal.
Directed by Dr. Ronald Hayes.

Musical Numbers.

English and Japanese Songs
—Mitswo Kitazawa.

Male Quartette.

 

Selections on the Harp
—Mary Currie.

NOTICE.

There will be a meeting of
the Council of the Students
Wednesday, Feb. 3rd, at 7.30
P. M. in the Munro Room.

COUNCIL ACTIVE.

It is understood that The Students’
Council has been dealing, during the
past week, with certain objectionable
conditions which have been prevalent
among the students, and about which
there has been some dissatisfaction.
It is not known definitely just what
action will be taken, but the different

:matters have been fully discussed in
their various details.

+e
PINE HILL.

The Committee in charge of the
Pine Hill At Home announce that they
will accept a very limited number of
applications for invitations from Old
Hillers. These applications should be
communicated at once to Mr. Allison
Fraser, Pine Hill.

  

To Direct Shaw

 

 

DR. RONALD HAYS

Flying Club Meets

Ground School Lectures Begin.

The Dalhousie Flying Club on Jan.
19, held a supper meeting at the Green
Lantern where the twenty-five charter
members present adopted the by-laws
and constitutions of the club as drawn
up by the executive.

There is every reason to believe that
the Club will forge ahead. The instructor, Donald W. Saunders, was

 

 

 

----e_

from the members. Due to the fact
that only so many students can be
taken for courses, club membership
was restricted to those who were char
ter members.
Tuesday, Jan. 26, the first ground
school lecture was held in the Munro

room of the Forrest Bldg. To those
of us who have looked at flying from
the outside and found it interesting,
we were given an insight into the
principles of flying; now we find it the
most thrillin
Lectures will cease about April 1,
when active flying will begin.

There are still three vacancies for
students to take courses this spring
and summer. Please .get in toucn
with Orton Hewat, B3768, he will put
you in touch with this active organizatien,

a a

   

and worthwhile sport. |

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 3rd, 1982.

The Disarmament Conferen

| Me RSG ee pe Reo be Per ee
+ Fa nes By Dr. R. A. MacKay.” & Bfe? es

end@

As the GAZETTE goes to press, the first World Disarmament
Conference is opening its doors at Geneva. This is perhaps the
most important international event since the Peace Conference.
On success or failure at Geneva depends largely whether the World
is to go forward organizing for peace or to revert to the law of the
jungle in international affairs.

Disarmament has been long promised and as long delayed.
In reducing Germany’s armaments to a fraction of their former
size the Allies declared to Germany that it was to serve as a prelude
to general disarmament. All members of the League of Nations
have agreed by Article VIII of the Covenant that ‘the maintenance
of peace requires the reduction of national armaments to the lowest
point consistent with national safety and the enforcement by
common action of international obligations.’’ Now after twelve
years comes the first world conference to consider the fulfilment of
these pledges. But they have not been years of idleness. The
League has made strenuous efforts to prepare the way but the problem of disarmamentisextremely complex. Nations cannot be persuaded to give up overnight the centuries-old methods of protecting
themselves by arms. Nor can any nation be expected to disarm
alone and thus leave itself open to attack by dangerous neighbours.
Disarmament can proceed only by gradual] stages, and the great
states of the world must keep in step. Given the best will on the
part of all nations the problem of getting them into step in the
disarmament march is one of great difficulty.

Serious obstacles have been encountered. One has been that
of definition—What constitutes armaments? Clearly tanks, guns,
military aeroplanes and submarines are armaments, but what of
the instruments of peace which may be readily converted to the
purposes of war? The taxicab saved Paris in 1914. Are taxicabs
then armaments? Though the problem of definition has been
partly solved by agreement, it still remains to trouble the coming
conference, particularly in the matter of trained reserves, that is,
men who have served their term in the army and have returned to
civil life, but who may be called up for immediate service on short
notice.

Another problem has been that of ‘‘yardsticks.”. The defence
needs of countries differ widely. Great Britain, for example, feels
she needs a powerful navy and France feels in turn the need of a
powerful army. But how can armies be measured against navies?
If there is to be proportionate reduction in armaments all round
some common measure or measures which would apply to the
armaments of all nations would seem to be essential. An answer
to this problem satisfactory to all concerned has not been found.
The Draft Treaty which was finally evolved by the League Disarmament Commission and which is to be the basis of discussion
at the coming Conference proposes several methods of measurement
notably that of budgetary limitation, that is a limitation of the
amount of money a nation may spend annually on its armaments.
certain States have objected strenuously to this method, notably
the United States, and it is doubtful whether it will find general
acceptance at Geneva. .

The rea! obstacle to disarmament, has, however, been political
not technical. France and other states which feel themselves
particularly open to attack by their neighbours have flatly refused
to disarm unless other means of security were provided in advance.
The League was originally intended to provide this security. By
Article X of the Covenant members undertake ‘‘to preserve” as
well as “to respect’’ the territorial integrity and existing political
independence of all members of the League. But the League has
admittedly failed to ensure the fulfilment of this pledge, partly
because of the absence of the United States and Russia from the
League which made it very much less than a real world organization
and partly because certain members, such as Canada, which feel
themselves already secure against foreign aggression, have refused
to give definite guarantees in advance that they will help other
members who happen to be the victims of attack. So long as the
League is the milk-and-water arrangement that it now is, in so
far as protecting its members goes, great progress in disarmament
can scarcely be expected.

France has already made it clear that at the coming conference
she cannot disarm unless security by other means is forthcoming.
On the British members of the League, and particularly on Great
Britain will fall primarily the duty of answering this demand of
France. If we make no concessions to France little progress, if
any, need be expected.

The conference thus meets amid a welter of unsolved problems.
In addition the World is probably under greater nervous tension
than at any time since the League began. Hitler with his policy
of repudiating the Peace Settlement has gained a tremendous follow
ing in Germany, and Poland and France are asking themselves,
What if Hitler gets into the saddle? And as the Conference convenes Japanese guns and aeroplanes are mak:ng a shambles of
Shangha’. |

What chances are there then of progress at Geneva? Prospects are indeed dark but not hopeless. The mounting burden of

7"

present, and outlined a prooram which ; armaments ‘s weighing more heav‘ly on mankind ‘n these days of
met’ with an enthusiastic receptionieconomic depress‘on than at any other time since the War, and

never before has opinion for disarmament been so well organized
and so vocal as it is today. These facts may compel unwilling
governments to act.. Even an agreement to limit certain arms,
Say aeroplanes, as was done with battleships at Washington in

22, or an agreement for a brief “holiday” during which no increases in armaments would occur, would be a step forward. Disarmament is at best a long process, but if the first step, however
halting, is taken at Geneva there is hope for the future.

Sere aks a A) oe

Kay Morrill and Dolly Gray entertained in the Third Floor sitting room
on Tuesday evening at a very enjoyable birthday party. Everyone had
such a good time and ate so much that
several of the guests felt the effect of it
all the next day,

Shirreff Hallers were sorry to learn
that Kay Moxon, who went home to
Truro a couple of weeks ago, isnow
very ill with pneumonia.

 

Dot Vernon spent the week end in
Truro,

 

ce Gaz

ette Offers
sre

The DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
offers a prize of five dollars for
the best poem submitted for
publication in any of the next

three issues. These are the
conditions:
(1) The poem may be of any

length; it must be original to
the contributor; and it must
not have appeared previously
in any publication.

(2) Contributions shall be
signed by actual and pen
names, indicated as such, and
shall be addressed to ‘‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE, Forrest
Hall, Carleton Street’’ and the
envelope shall be marked ‘‘Verse competition.”’

(3) Except in the case of the
winner the real name need not
be printed unless so desired.

(4) All verse submitted shall
become the property of the
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE and
may be printed, with acknowledgment to the author.

(5) The judges shall be chosen by the GAZETTE editors.

(6) If the judges deem no
contribution of sufficient merit, no prize will be awarded)
but all contributions will never
theless become the property of
the GAZETTE.

(7) Any of the foregoing
conditions may be waived or
changed by the Editors of the
GAZETTE.

(8) All contributions must
be in the hands of the Editors
on or before Sunday, February
2lst. This condition is absolute.

———__—_-e
Theologs defeated Engineers in Bowling, Friday night by 22 points. Those
bowling for Engineers were—Squire,
Tapley, Sargeant, Bacon.

 

No. 12

Pine Hill Notes

Dr. Stewart in Philosophy 3 the
other day refered to the Good Samaritan, the story to be found in a book
in the library entitled The Holy Scriptures. But due to the fact that Dr.
Stewart neglected to mention the
author of the book Father Andrews—
the same Father who was inadver.ently linked up with the Aggie McSnort
scandal—has yet been unable to locate
it.

The residents are being given plenty
opportunities to exercise their critical
abilities in the field of photographic
art. We are of the opinion that a
great many Pine Hillers have missed
their calling and should be taking their
places in Hollywood amid such embodiments of beauty as Novarro, March,
etc. Others have assumed such angelic expressions in their proofs asto
merit a halo and a harp along with
their brother Saints, Francis, Augustine, etc. Acynical observer remarked
that the ait of photography consists
in making “‘that which is, not, and
that which is not, is.’’ If Bernard
Shaw happened to say that we might
label it keen wit; as it is we can but
describe the observation as apt.

—_ — ——_.

An agitation to bring about a more
enlightened attitude towards that noble
literary artist, the punner, would, we
believe, receive unanimous support at
Pine Hill For we have a master—
Horwood by name—who excels in this
accomplishment. To one who was
explaining to Jim that he had borrowed
his Liberty Magazine the prince of
punners replied: ‘‘You were quite at
liberty to do so.’’ Certain admirers
are but waiting for an expression of
public approval before editing a volume of these gems. Here is -‘your
opportunity to free society from the
shackles of unfounded prejudice by
expressing yourself in favor of this
publication

 

Commerce Society 
Holds Annual Ball

 

Writes For Gazette

 

 

Eschaton 8 i ;
R. R. A. MACKAY

Class ’32 Meets

a

 

The Senior Class head a well-attended meeting on Thursday, January
28th, at twelve o’clock in Room 2,
The president, Lou Christie was in
the chair and a great deal of important
business was brought up.

The motion passed at a previous
meeting, that seniors should carry
canes, was brought up again and
overruled. Orders for pins and rings |
may be placed at Birks’ now.

The nest business was that of electing
a class Historian for the Year Book.
A committee of three was to be chosen.
Evelyn McElhinney, Jean Gardiner
and Mollie Freeze were elected.

The election of life officers was the
most important business brought up
at the meeting. The result of thr
election was as follows—

President—Charlie Lorway.
Vice-President—Esther Eliot.
Secretary—Barbara Barnhill.
Treasurer—James Muir.

It was moved and seconded that the
life officers should be given power to
choose four members of the class to
work with them during and for Conre The meeting then adjourned,

 

MillionairesDance
A Huge Success

 

‘“‘Commerce, Commerce, nickels and
dimes,

We're the men ahead of the times.”’

And so the ‘‘Millionaires’’ proved
themselves on Friday night, Jan, 29,
at the ‘‘Nova Scotian.”’

The programme cards in the form
of a Bar diagram, ‘‘Illustrating Partnerships Formed,’’ were as novel as any
Dalhousie dance programmes for some
years. Truly, a Freshette would be
proud to add it to the collection hanging on her dressing table.

In the parlance of the evening ‘‘Jo
was hot,” and the saxes played some
skilful arrangements in three part
harmony. Those who were able to
recognize harmony in anything besides ‘Sweet Adeline’’ appreciated it
at any rate, but undoubtedly the
trumpet with nine mutes attracted
most attention. For the first time
a Dalhousie dance, the orchestra
featured the ‘‘Dalhousie Dream Girl”
waltz, which received more applause
than any other number of the evening
with ‘‘Chloe,” ‘St. Louis Blues,’’ and
‘‘All of Me”’ coming next.

The special dancing numbers by the
Misses Redden, were, of course, the
feature of the evening, but so sophisticated are our parties becoming, that
not one member of the faculty wiped
his glasses for the occasion.

At eleven thirty supper was served
in the private dining rooms at the
end of the mezzaine, and, after that,
the party continued, gayer than ever,
until the respectable hour of 2 a. m.

About 350 people attended and
were received by Dean and Mrs.5. S.
Smith and Dr. and Mrs. R. P. Bell,
chaperones of the evening. Most of
the Commerce boys were, of course,
there, but representatives of the other
faculties were scattered. The Meds
were of course represented by the old
reliables—Fat (with an imported
blonde from Mt. A.)—Johnnie, Freddie and Thompy.”

Hoot Mahon, Dot Rosier, Jo Pound,
and several other ‘‘ex-Dals’’ were back
for the occasion and after the ticket
collectors left their post, there was
the usual number of post-midnight
gate crashers. :

The evening passed without mishap,
partly because the management had
taken care to remove all vases, breakable ash trays, etc., and in short, although this year’s price index number
was much lower than that of 1931, the
dance was as elaborate and well-managed as was the famous Millionaire's
Ball ef last year,

 
FL AR EEA,

is \

        
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
     
 
 
   
   
 

‘wae

*

   
    

 
 
  

4

   
  

ister
;

fame Toys a! Managing Editors:
‘MacDONALD, B. A,

THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295

  

é ay ij 4,
le : ;
Le d : PG! nal
; é _- wae eee ee ee ae
s

. L2890 | WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
: A Associates:
bit , H. B. CHANDLER
eae LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.
oF ’ DANIEL SPRY
a ELIZABETH, MARCH
Girls Sports: Sports Editor:
>LADYS M R. D. DUCHEMIN
i cLabys ft" jost B9603
ob Uae ua tteyce cat News Editors:
Meatinicnha tn MARGARET DORMAN
Agata Hi 9h EDWARD B. HIGGINS
ate ELIZABETH MURRAY
; pent Mi : RUTH CRANDALL Asst. Business Manager:
~ DONALD ON CHARLES CLARKE, B. A
he B2436

Proof Editor:
AARON ZIVE, B. Sc.

 

PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB&SON, 7-9-I1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N. s.

 

 

THE CARNEGIE CORPORATION—AND A DEBT.

Numerous factors of special significance to university education in the Maritime provinces, were discussed last Friday at the
‘semi-annual meeting of the Carnegie Corporation Advisory Committee, held in Haliiax. This body, whose chief aim is to increase
the efliciency of institutions devoted to higher learning, considered
some extremely important matters. The most momentous was
_ probably the proposal to refuse admittance to all students who
could not comply fully with the matriculation requirements of the
various colleges. Another proposal unanimously passed, was the
banning of radio receiving sets in student residences. Both of
these points will doubtless be carried into action in the very near
future.

Among the many thoughts stimulated by the deliberations
of this Advisory Committee, the one paramount in our mind, is the
boundless debt that modern education owes to the memory of
Andrew Carnegie. Through his lavish generosity, innumerable
opportunities have been provided for those poor in financial re- sources, but rich in the things of the mind. The Carnegie Corporation, his own true child, has made available for science a substantial portion of his vast fortune, and encouraged students in
mak every field of research. Indeed, to chronicle all its benefits would
-—s necessitate a thousand paragraphs of this size. Let us never forget
~~ the eyample of the Scotch-American telegraph messenger boy, who
by his indomitable character and force of will, rose to be the greatest philantropist the world has ever seen, and one of the most

it Our debt to him can only be


sincere promoters of education.
partly repaid by honouring his name.

rs ty
* =
a. r

THE DRAMA OF DISARMAMENT.

ry It is a sad and striking commentary on the fundamental ir- rationality of the modern temper, that as the eyes of the civilized
world are anxiously directed toward the present Disarmament
-—s« Conference at Geneva, its ears are filled with the sinister reverberations of heavy artillery in the Orient, and Mars loosens his belt
«in eager expectation of another gory repast. Just what the outcome of the recent holocaust at Shanghai will be, no one dares to
predict. It is not impossible that the crimson flames consuming
et _the Chinese sity, will be the origin of a cosmic conflagration which
eae will ultimately devastate the globe. On the other hand, the Sino_--~———«sapanese conflict may be just a spasmodic outburst such as the far
East is continually forced to endure. One thing, however, is
certain at the moment, and that is the critical tensity of the international situation.
Those unversed in the subtle technicalities of statecraft, yet
deeply concerned in stimulating peace on earth, good-will toward
' men, are impelled to inquire why it is that despite Covenants and
teas Pacts, the world is to-day spending four and a half billion dollars
_--—s «sper year on armaments? Can it be that the nations are merely
masking their martial intentions under a hypocritical mass of
_ -~--—- clap-trap about the abolition of war? Is the Leagut, established
} : with such high hopes for the future of mankind, in reality an impotent figure-head? Or has the ubiquitous discussion about
_ disarmament a solid foundation? Perhaps the current Conference
‘. will tell. ‘‘Maintenance of peace,” reads the historic obligation
/» which members of the League pledged themselves to achieve under
| ~~ the ~Covenant,’”’ requires the reduction of armaments consistent
_ with national safety, and the enforcement by common action of
international exigencies.’’ And in the varying interpretations of
the four italicized words, there lies the explanation of contemporary
conditions.
__-_-—«*‘This is one of the grounds for asserting, as Dr. R. A. MacKay
of our Political Science Department has so admirably done, that
_-—~—s the problem of disarmament is inextricably bound up with inter_-—~—__ national politics. The various countries are still eying each other
___ suspiciously, uncertain as to what the next move will be. France
_____ is distrustful of Germany; Italy dislikes France; Japan has designs
Ba _ on China, while the United States is determined to oppose the
Japs. And in northern Europe, mighty Russia, in ponderous
travail with entirely new social construction, is hated and feared
by all. Small wonder then, that armament expenditure, particularly in the field of aviation, has soared alarmingly. Great
Britain is the only power that has reduced her air forces during
the last nine years; she has now one percent less than she had in
_ Italy on the contrary, has increased forty percent, France
dred and thirty-nine percent, and the United States one
and fifty-nine percent. Nevertheless, they all continue
as if war were the one thing farthest from their minds.
Yet withal, the present perilous state of the world is interesting
.a disinterested observer. History flows hot off the press
y day, and one becomes breathless in trying to follow the
s. It is indeed, an absorbing drama of human pasust, prejudice, and sorrow. Sometimes one is
th Goethe’s account of it in Faust, where
ribes the universe as created in order to amuse
interplay of cross-purposes. Finally, when
If into hopeless chaos, the Almighty
, and murmured, “Yes, it was a good

   
 
    
  
  
 

ae ‘ss Te
yr cpt? he

- r.
—s «a ¥
om

     
    
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
   

ee

COMMENT

 

Inflation in the U. S.
The Union of Canadian Provinces.

Inflation in the U. S.

- The government of the United States,
possibly stimulated by approaching
Presidential elections, is making a
tremendous effort to swing the tide of
business conditions back to what Mr.
Hoover calls ‘‘normalcy.’”’ The outstanding feature of the governmental
attemp to influence the trend of
business is the two-billion-dollar Reconstruction Finance Corporation recently authorised by Congress. The
Corporation will have power to advance loans to ‘‘bona fide financial
institutions’”’ and to the railroads in
certain instances. General Dawes has
resigned as Ambassador to Great
Britain in order to serve as President
of the gigantic Corporation, while outpee American financiers and captains of industry will serve on the
board of directors. $500,000,000 of the
capital will be supplied from the
Treasury, and the balance will be raised
as required by the issue of Governmentguaranteed bonds.

As part of the plan the Federal
Reserve Banks are to embark upon
an ‘‘easy money’’ policy making possible a greater extension of credit
through the dependent banks of the
System. The whole scheme will make
available an enormous amount of
liquid credit which ‘‘may be substituted
for the frozen or depreciated credits
represented by certain types of bank
assets and by railroad obligations on
which the interest payments are in
doubt.” The action is designed to
halt the tide of bank failures and to
keep the railroads from receivership.

According to all the rules of the
game inflation is a dangerous policy
which may have unfurtunate results.
Admittedly the United States is going
in for bad medicine in a very big way.
Yet, it is argued, that an artificial
stimulant to business is well nigh
imperative and that this policy may
serve to stave off a deflation which
points ultimately to chaos. Remedies
of a kill or cure nature may have their
uses. The placing of control with a
competent directorate in the Corporation and the conservative hands of the
Federal Reserve is calculated to guard
against an overdoing the inflation and
is expected to exclude undue political
influence.

While the policy is in the testing
it is interesting to note this assumption
by an American administration of
responsibility for keeping the financial
and other basic enterprises on their feet.

 

The Union of Canadian Provinces.

The official proposal of the Hon.| ©

John Bracken for a union of the three
Prairie Provinces moves a question of
importance into the realm of practical
politics. It has long been said that
Canada is overgoverned, a criticism
aimed at that organ of local selfgovernment standing somewhere between the Dominion and the Municipality. The Canadian Province has
developed into something quite unforeseen by itscreators. Its applicability
to the areas concerned does not rest
on a veryrational basis.

The Province came into being as a
compromise between those who would
create a British North American union
at any cost and those who would retain
a former colonia] individuality. The
moving spirits in the Fathers of Confederation intended the Province to be
as insignificant as possible. Some of
them doubtless looked forward to its
eventual disappearance. But years of
controversy between jealous Provincial
and Dominion Governments and a long
line of Privy Council decisions have
established the Province as a very
real entity, sovereign within its sphere.
Thus it exists, while an appreciable
portion of the national revenue goes
into its maintenance.

Canada, naturally, geographically and
economically, was never intended to
bea nation; but solongasit isa nation,
so long has the Province come to stay.
Quebec for one thing must be kept
separate. The country is probably
too large for legislative union. But
considerations, religious, racial, geographic, economic, do not necessarily
preclude the union of certain groups.

The Prairie Provinces perhaps most
happily fall within the category of a
homogeneous group, They, it will be
remembered; are creations of the
Dominion. Manitoba was prematurely created because a Dominion Government badly needed new supporting
seats. In 1905 temporary political
considerations were largely responsible
for the creation of two provinces in
the Territories where one might have
done. Thus came into being three
provinces without much attention being
given to the suitability of the areas.
In these days of rapid communication
there appears no reason why effective
governmental control could not be
exercised over the 758,000 sparsely
settled square miles of the Prairie
Provinces. Their economic interests
and problems are peculiarly their own;
so much so that the present Provinces
have often been driven into cooperation one with the others. The industrial and mining problems of Manitoba
and Alberta would not be likely to
conflict with the predominantly agricultural interest so far as provincial
powers of government are concerned.
There is not as yet that wealth of individuality in tradition which would
tell against a union among the older
provinces. .

The advantages attendant upon
union are set forth by Premier Bracken
as twofold—an annual saving of between two and three million dollars
in governmental overhead, and a
political advantage arising from a
united Prairie policy in the national
arena, The former is very concrete,

(Continued on page 3.)

 

he decucttiaihiaall

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ay

‘PASSING BLOW

Tuning out the Radio.

   

Dalhousie and Broadcasting

Tuning out the Radio.
When representatives of all the

universities in the Maritimes and
Newfoundland convened last Friday
as the Central Advisory Board of the
Carnegie Corporation, they recommended to their respective institutions
that radios be banned from student
dormitories. This resolution, though
not the most important, was certainly,
the most stringent matter passed.

Following upon the first reactions to
this proposal—a feeling that university authorities seek to infringe unjustifiably upon private rights, and a
labelling of the measure as a prepatory
school regulation—comes the realization that ot latter years the university
has much in common with preparatory
schools, in respect to the youth and
immaturity of new scholars and to the
necessity to exercise upon them a
considerable discipline. From an examination of a graduating class picture
of some thirty years ago, the inference
may be validly drawn, after due allowance made for the tonsorial indiscretions of the gay nineties, that the
graduates of past years were older in
point of years and maturity than the
graduates of to-day.

There are several reasons. In the
first place more students worked their
own way, entirely, through the university; they brought to bear upon student
life the prudent discrimination that
they had developed through years of
dependence upon their own resourses
and judgment. In the second place
the preparatory school curricula were
more difficult and more exacting.
Thirdly, the university was formerly
less of a finishing school than it is today. The student did not enter because he was too young to enter a
vocation; or to make social contacts; or
to learn to mix socially; these are
recent appendages to the university
curriculum, The student entered college after long debate and careful consideration, and the prospect of immedjate and real sacrifice on the part of
himself and of others was a forceful
deterrent from rash decision; he entered
to fit himself for a particular and predetermined profession. Finally, the
advent of the co-ed must not be overlooked and the precocity of the younger generation ought not to be minimiz
When these changes in the collective
life and mentality of the higher seminaries are taken into considerations, we
do not believe that the proposed measure is unreasonable. Certainly it
smacks too much of discipline to incite
enthusiasm, nevertheless it ought to
prove beneficial in effect, and is, we
believe, with qualifications, justified.
Most important among the qualifications is this; that it ought not to extend
past the Junior year; and after the
Sophmore year the administration of the
regulation should be subject to the
discretion of the authorities. In the
cases of professional or graduate students the measure can in no way be
justified; nor can we believe that the
recommendation was intended to apply
to such at all; for if it was so intended
it would be the most unwarranted
interference, since every argument
in support of a qualified approval of
ithe resolution would be inapplicable
there. 4
A second assumption underlying the
proposition is, of course, that the radio
interferes with study and his insufficient educational value to compensate
for the lost time and opportunity it
occasions. With this view we are
entirely in accord. The short and
infrequent hours of good talks or of
good music are only oasesina desert of
slapstick comedy, wearisome crooning
and tiring jazz. To what extent this
regrettable situation might be improved by the universities we hope to discuss further on.
Finally, in so far as any radio set
is a nuisance in a residence, it ought
certainly to be banned. In speaking
of radio sets in the foregoing paragraphs we have only considered those
of which the operation would affect no
one but the immediate listener-in.
Although Dalhousie, having no Mens
Residence would be less affected by the
adoption of this recommendation than
would many other. Maritime Universities, the fate of this drastic proposal
will be followed, nevertheless, with
much interest by the Student Body.

Dalhousie and Broadcasting.

During the past two college years
Dalhousie University took part in
considerable broadcasting from C. H.
N.S. Besides popular talks, scientific
historical, etc., some of the university
organizations, such as Sodales and the
Choral Society were given an opportunity to noise abroad their forensic
and harmortfic abilities and a large part
of the Maritime public was_ being
impressed with the fact that Dalhousie
University was interested in the dissemination of instruction and good
entertainment, and had interests beyond the bounds of the campus. The
practice was not continued during the
present term.

Times are hard now; money is difficult to obtain; the results of broad
casting are not, at least during the first
years, very tangible. Yet the good will
cultivated abroad by a comparatively
small expenditure might stand this
University in good need when the
time comes to refill a depleted treasury
or to enlist the superior high school
element for her freshmen class,

 

exists in the United

FROM OUR
CONTEMPORARIES

Government Control and
U.B. C.

Sir Arthur Currie on

Disarmament.

Government Control and U. B. C.

One of the unpleasantnesses associated with a Canadian university under
government control, from which Dalhousie is fortunately free, is causing
considerable worry to students at the
University of British Columbia. The
Tolmie government has indicated to the
President that a reduction in the
grant may be expected this year. The
rumoured cut will amount to something over $200,000, which reduces the
1931 grant of $460,000 by nearly half;
while the 1930 grant was $580,000.
That this will create a serious condition in educational affairs is evident.
Students are wondering whether they
will be able to finish their courses, In
order to make ends meet either certain
faculties would have to be abolished, or
else the third and fourth years and all
research work would have to be done
away with. Some of the best men on
the staff would go south where apparently education is valued more than
in Canada, Another curious situation
makes the student position precarious.
Last year one of the columnists was
suspended for expressing his opinions too freely in the Ubyssey, hence
the students are not anxious to give
their views on the subject publicly lest
they antagonize the Government. The
same columnist however, under the
caption ‘Civilization’ says as much in
a general way as he would not be permitted to say in particular, After
suggesting that there are degrees of
civilization determined by the attitudes of governments and peoples toward education, he considers three
degrees, mediocre, average, and high.
In a highly civilized society schools
and uriversities would be regarded as
vital to its intellectual and economic
life and progress, and a reduction in
educational budgets would be a blow
to the self-respect of the people. In
an average society there would be an
enlightened opinion strong enough to
prevent excessive economy in educational expenditure by the government.
In a mediocre society, which he leaves
us to conjecture as British Columbia
under the Tolmie Government, there
might be extravagance or inefficiency
in the spending of public funds and
lack of courage for sufficient taxation,
there might be a resort ta cutting of
educational grants thereby retarding
the progress and well-being of the
state. It is likely nevertheless, that
public opinion will be able to protect
the university from such a misfortune
as a reduced grant would undoubtedly
bring.

Sir Arthur Currie on Disarmament.

Sir Arthur Currie, Principal of
McGill University speaking recently
at the National Republican Club in
New York on the subject of Disarmament, emphasized the importance to
both Canada and the United States of
the outcome of the Geneva Conference.
He recalled the great hopes with which
he and most men who fought in the
last war had been inspired, that this
wasto bethe wartoend war. ‘‘Let me
add,”’ he said, ‘‘that I was one of that
number, alas now sadly disillusioned.”
But while supporting honest, fair
and universal disarmament he is not a
pacifist, and if his country were forced
into another war he would offer his
services “‘willingly but not gladly,” in
the realization that war isa game whose
business is killing, and killing in any
way possible without regard to humane
or moral considerations. As long as
selfish nationalistic mentality sways the
minds of nations, just so long will it
be tutile to talk of national disarmament. He referred to the wasteful
burdens of armaments, the need for
removing international mistrusts and
fears by reduction of arms. He would
not support a policy of total disarmament; yet he looks forward to the time
when men shall recline under the fig
tree and sing the merry song of peace.
The McGill Daily commenting editorially echoes pretty faithfully the Prexy,
except when referring to the fact that
students when thinking of war conside1
the natural, selfish view of the effect of
war on themselves, without regard
to such trifles as the heavy cost of
armaments or the moral evils of warfare. As one student said during the
recent Buffalo Convention in discussing
the probable action of youth in the
event of a war between the United
States and Japan, ‘‘I would rather be
a Japanese citizen than a corpse.”’

correspondent to the Daily gives
what he considers the real motives for
youth deciding never to. support war
War is unnecessary to the progress of
civilization; preparedness for war is a
primary cause of war; if the youth of
countries at odds refuse to fight, war
is impossible,

 

 

There is another aspect. In the
United States there are about sixty
University broadcasting stations. Few
of them are of real value. But all of
them must fight continually to preserve
ates the commercial broadcasteis
the rights that are theirs. It is not
likely that broadcasting in Canada
will ever reach the chaotic and comparatively worthless s at which it
tes to-day.

February 3rd, 1982

 

PORTRAITS
AND

CARICATURES

 

CC

 

i

Elizabeth Campbell Saunderson.

‘‘A daughter of the gods,
Divinely tall, and most divinely fair.’

It will be with regret that we see
Bessie graduate in Household Science
this spring. For four happy years
she has been with us, and many a tear
will be shed at her passing.

A victim to pernicious amnesia, she
has been prevented from taking an
active part in many activities but she
has born this cross with true Christian
resignation and has not allowed anything to hide her sunny smile. She
has been extremely popular with both
girls and boys and has a great influence
not only on the minds, but on the
spirits of her friends. When her health
permitted Bessie attended the dances,
where she greatly assisted the chaperones in carrying out their duties
“Lips that touch liquor shall never
touch mine’”’ she declared, and many a
strong man has since resisted temptation as he remembered that wistful
glance.

Bessie graduated from Inverness
High School in '26 and after a few years
of teaching came to Shirreff Hall
She was president of Midlothian Society
her first year, House President her
second, Choral Club pianist her third,
and this year finds her the sweetheart
of Sigma Chi,

She does fancy diving, plays a good
game of rummy and has a weakness
tor dumb animals, including ‘‘Pansy,”’
her Angora cat.

The Hall will never be the same with
out her.

““A precious one from us has gone,
A voice we loved is stilled;
A place is vacant in our home,

at never can be filled.”’

 

Book Review

Shadows on the Rock
by
Willa Cather.

Shadows on the Rock is an historical
narrative of the Old French regime
in Quebec during the closing years of
Count Frontenac’s life. The plot of
the book is life itselfi—a simple plot and
simply revealed, yet alive with a
human interest that pure fiction can
never attain to, The story opens with
Euclide Charron, apothecary and physician to Frontenac and sharer in his
varying fortunes, gazing from a promontory on the faint outlines of the
ships returning to France; not for many
months, until the river had frozen and
thawed agaiin, would those sails, return.
This philosopher—apothecary Charron,
Cecile his little daughter, and Jacques
her portégé, poor neglected waif of a
harlot mother, Bishop Laval whose
humility is in pathetic contrast with
the ostentatious pride of his successor
Bishop de Saint-Vallier and the count
himself—the high and the lowly mingle
in a common existence beautiful in its
hardy pioneer simplicity and touching
in the revelation of its little tragedies—
vain longings for a breath of Old France
sacrifices selt-inflicted, hopes unrealized.

The story of the French missionaries
labouring among the Iroquois is told
in a quiet sympathetic manner characteristic of the whole book. Noel
Chabanel, whose heart and soul was in
France but who vowed that his body
should die in service among the revolting Indians, perishes when the Iroquois
attack and destroy the mission of
Saint Jean. The miracles centering
about the life of the recluse, Jeanne
Le Ber, are depicted as part of the
very religion and existence of the simple
inhabitants of Kebec.

The long winter after the departure
of the.ships tor France, the Spring and
later the returning of the sails from
home—no, not home, but France—the
dying Count who has waited in vain
tor an honorable recall—these are the
main divisions of the story which is
tinged here and there by glimpses of
Old France—an estranged wife, Countess Frontenac—an unappreciative
King, Louis XIV. The death of the
unrepentant Count, the unrealized
dream of Euclide Charron that he would
once more see the Homeland, the breaking of Saint-Vallier's proud spirit—
this note of disappointment and futility
is harmonised in a natural conclusion
with the optimism, the ‘‘joie de vivre’
of the now happily married Cecile, who
lost in the pleasure of helping others
is distinctly a daughter of the New
France.

Shadows on the Rock is neither burdened with too much historical detail
nor 1s its genuine informative character
jeopardized by indiscriminate employment of confusing fiction. It reveals
essentially a spirit—that of the early
French pioneer—and it reveals that
spirit after the fashion of Louis Heinons’ Maria Chapdelaine—sincerely, quietly and with a sympathetic understanding.

teeta,

Some day, in the near future, we hope
for a degree of government control, and
in expectation of that event, it would
be to the advantage of this University
to be in at the bottom. Any good
offices Dalhousie may perform under
the present system would in all probability be increased unde govern_ educational subsidy by many
0 *

 

 
 
 
   
       
    
  

 
 

ary Sed, 1982

 

ba ,

Considerable excitement prevailed
in the basement of the Arts Building
last week, when two of ‘‘the boys,” at
_. Odds over poker debts, attempted to
settle their differences in fistic encounter. It seems that Bobbie Maclellan,
acting as banker warned everyone that
only those chips that were on the table
_ should be cashed at the end of the
game. Henry Goldberg, with that
hoarding instinct, decided, while the
game was in progress, to keep his
earnings in a Polar Pie Box. But when
Henry presented his chips, Friend
‘Bobbie politely told him they were no
- good, oldberg maintained they were.
And the fun began. Fists flew, and
blood ran before the ‘‘pictures of the
classes of yesteryear.” Fortunately
two tables of poker were in progress
at the time, and some of the boys at
the other game rushed in and pare
the combatants, much, we should say,
to the chagrin of the boys of ’94 and
’°86 on the walls. The affair was
amicably settled with Bobbie meeting Goldberg’s demands and Henremarking that, ‘‘It isn’t the three
- dollars that was involved, it is the
principle of the thing.” Yes, afterall,
boys, what is a mere three dollars, or
a $3.49 for that matter?

Last week Observer saw Dr. H. L.
Stewart, who was reading a newspaper
let the street-car carry him five blocks
past his destination before he realized
where he was,

f ——__—__—

_ Fat MacKenzie, disdaining the meaner beauties of Dalhousie, wired to
Mount Allison for a girl to take to the
Millionaires’ Ball.

Don’t worry though—some of our
girls are pretty well-liked. Dolly Gray
got three dozen flowers and a telephone
call from Montreal when she observed
her eighteenth birthday last week.

The Week’s Worst.
Marg Sadler (to unknown Pine Hiller
on Shirreff Hall telephone)—‘‘Say, do
you know Frank Creighton? You do,
eh? Well, who’s he cratin’ aroun
now?”

——

Art Pattillo (Junior) declares—‘‘The
Gazette can say what it likes about me.
After all, a man has to get used to this

_ in politics.”

—_—

 

“Pp, Ralph Paterson Smith, Pro
4. fessor of Pathology and Bacteriology

at Dalhousie University, wishes to have

sit clearly and distinctly understood that

Ps he DOES NOT read the Gazette,
h, — and prides himself on the fact,
a aE

i a _
q Li "

  
 

a;
ut
Pi

— = =
#

A, lif

- The Automobile

‘ | An Element of Change

7
af *
A +

 

af
+

 

_ The. automobile has been in use
scarcely a half century, yet, it has
influenced the social and industrial
framework of a continent. Asa mode,
of transportation, it has ousted, the
railway from many small locaiities,
and even in more thickly settled districts, where the railway was thought

- to be unassailable, the motor is giving

it great competition. Twenty years
ago, North America was. tending,
through the influence of railways, to
become settled into many small individual centres. Today, the motor

. as a quick and convenient transport,

a . has allowed the city to cover wider

; areas. The modern large city is com
posed of a central nucleus for business

purposes, with the outskirts stretching
far into the countryside as homes of
the citizens. ;

A new employment is created for
manual workers; the track-layer has
been replaced by the road-builder, for
railway construction, with the exception of building in the northlands of
Canada, ceased with the coming of the
motor car, An industrial influence
has been felt not only through the
its motor business itself, but throvgh
allied interests. The great part of the
world’s steel output is now absorbed
by motor firms. The rubber used in
the equipping of motors accounts’ for
85% of world production. And with
the recend demand for sedan type of
automobile, the motor indusitry has
placed orders with plate-glass producers for 67% of their output. These
are truly startling figures. But they
are the more startling with the ac
 

: companying employment records.
) While dene are four million workers
ae in the automobile plants along, the
¥ numbers employed in the plants of the
r allied steel, rubber, glass, textile and

int industries are beyond count.

he Motor car asa social and industrial
factor is gradually changing the face
of the North American continent.

 

| BASKETBALL
Y.M. &. A. Sat., Feb. 6
6 p. m. Dalhousie vs. Wanderers
Intermediate
7 Pp- m. St. Johns vs. ¥e M. GA
Intermediate
8 p. m. Dalhousie vs. Wanderers
Senior
9 p. m. Y.M.C.A. vs. N.S. Tech.
Senior

  
  

 

 

 

The Observer |

   
   
     
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  

 

Ci Ea Rates
Hall Diet

‘The other day Shirreff Hall entertained men—yes, men—at lunch. ‘‘Ah,’
chorused rinety-odd girls and an
M. A.. “good food for the occasion.”
Alas for logical conclusions. Shirreff
Hall food refuses to deviate trom
custom for anyone less than His Majesty. Soup (noodle) first appeared.
Then the well-worn potatoes and
tomato scallop, tastefully arranged
in the housekeepei’s most artistic
style. Apple Sauce typicaly rounded
off jthis delightful [example of the
best in culinary art.

This, friends, is slightly above the
average. Prunes and apricots (closely
akin to asparagus in the mind of one
ambitious college lad) are delicacies
frequently appearing. A peach, garnished with lemon juice, sometimes
adds a lighter note. Who am I to
withhold any transient glory from
the name of our fair dietician?

Salads, we are told, are rich in
vitamins. Hash is good for the growing girl and boy. Stew sheds its little
ray of sunshine where most needed.
“Beans or cold meat?” whispers ain
imposing maid. <A sigh of resignation
escapes the lips of the noted ‘‘starving
Haller.’ Choosing the lesser of two
evils, she chokes out, ‘‘cold meat’’, and
the beans, designed for consumption
in the baked form, are relegated to
Tuesday’s soup pot.

Dinner is the social function of the
day. Potatoes are mashed at the
table by the nearest freshette Potatoes mashed in the kitchen are a
Sunday treat, regarded with a calculating eye by doubtful observers, String
beans supplement the starch. one
evening. Carrots (boiled, we believe)
glow in golden splendour the next.
Spinach, of ‘Eat your spinach, Elmer
notoriety Whets the appetite on the!
following evening. Turnips from the
neighbouring gardens tide the Armenians over another long night. Cabbage
is scented from afar and avoided like
the plague The next evening it begins again with the beans

Meat at the Hall is a subject for
continual conjecture. It proves a boon
to the shy girl who finds difficulty in
“table talk.’’ The presiding senior
| Suggests beef as a suitable designation.
Her guest quietly but convincingly
announces that pork is the proper
connotation An ardent biologist begins on tape-worms, and the meat
needs no name for the present.

Breakfast, the meal made famous by
newly married couples, has been slighted. But as nobody comes down to
breakfast anyway, it is negligible.

So this is college. .

 

Comment 
(Continued from page 2.)

against the over-provincization of the
country. The latter is not quite so
definite and depends upon the extent
to which the Province and provincial
politics and provincial healousies cut
across national party lines. Yet ultimately the two considerations would
unquestionably operate to the benefit
of the provinces concerned if the union
could be effected.

Many obstacles crop up in the way
of this, as of other, political unions.
Many a worthy union has been wrecked
on the matter of choosing a capital.
The same inter-sectional jealousies
which caused the building of Ottawa
and Canberra, and which split the
three functions of government among
three cities in the South African
Union, would get in the way of union
on the Prairies. Fixed plant in the
shape of governmental buildings and
state universities, items on which the
Provinces have spent great sums,
must be reckoned into the calculations
of cost. The integration of services
and offices and attendant pntronage
presents a mighty task. Yet even all
this might be accomplished if the present straitened circumstances of the
Provinces are to continue.

The allied proposal of a Maritime
Union is governed, (a fortiori,) in
many of these arguments, Yet in
these Provinces tradition has a much
firmer hold. One can imagine the
wrench to Haligonians if the provincial
capital were transferred to the Tantramar Marshes. Traditions in these

 

      
     
    
   
       
 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST

Smokers Requisites of every
description
A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

 

21 Spring Garden Road

   

 

 

a

  

) Music in all Branches.

It has been estimated by a prominent
economist that a girl paying $140 a
year for room pays $13.50 a week.

and perhaps the greatest argument’

 

Halifax Ladies College
Conservatory of Music

| 4 Teacher’s Certificate.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.

‘MISS E, FLORENCE oe B.A.,
| oe ——

   

th
"
5 .

di a
7)

“a

ocd
‘ i : ¥
4

 

a
DALHOUSIE’GAZETTE

Sa -enS

Who Will Be
Assistant Dean?

Owing to the lamented death of Dr,| Editors Note: This article is the con-, upon their own university.
sities will accept candidates in practically every faculty except Medicine
and Dentistry. Due to the fact that

Hattie, the position of Assistant Dean
of our medical school left vacant, must
soon be filled. Undoubtedly, the
Board of Governors are already busily
occupying themselves with this task,
and perhaps a selection has already
been made.

Events like these at Dalhousie usually call forth a great deal of discussion among the students of the faculty

concerned. As a rule their opinions

are usually withheld within the secret
precincts of the basement common
room, since every student possesses
the morbid fear of being ‘‘ploughed”’
for expressing an opinion which might
meet with the disapproval of the professors concerned. Experience has taught them that professors are human
creatures.

Sometimes, men to fill executive
positions are called from other schocls,
because of their singular achievements
in the world of education. Then the
students usually test out at time goes
by the mettle of the men chosen. Ofttimes, men are usually designated
from within the University. In cases
of the latter mode of selection, it would
be interesting to know of the candidates which Dame Rumour discloses
to the student body.

Rumour, relentless and fiery, has
circulated far and wide the names of
Professor Bean, Dr, Atlee and Dr.
Holland as persons quite capable of
filling the position of Assistant Dean
of our medical school.

All of these professors are well known
not only to the Dalhousie medical
student body, but also to neighbouring
Canadian medical schools,

Professor Bean is a graduate of the
University of New Hampshire and is
head of the department of Histology
and Embryology. He has served very
efficiently as Secretary to the Medical
faculty, and as times has acted for the
late Dr. Hattie whilst the latter was
incapacitated. He is young and energetic and a man of ability.

Dr. Benge Atlee has a surprising
popularity with the medical students
especially those of the later years.
He is known for his critical attitude
towards academic methods of teaching.
He is a product of Dalhousie and is a
Fellow of both the Royal College of
Surgeons of Edinburgh, and the Royal
Society of Medicine of London. Heis
head of the department of Obstetrics
and Gynaecology.

Dr Clyde Holland is another Dalhousie product in medicine, being the
Gold Medallist in his graduating year.
He has spent quite a great deal of his
time doing Post Graduate studies in
England and in the United States.
He has lectured in Bacteriology in
previous years. He is now
strator in the departments of Anatomy,
Pathology and Bacteriology; and also
lectures in Medicine and Clinical
Medicine. Undoubtedly, a man of
ability.

All of these men have youth in their
favour. They are all men of outstanding ability and with the opportunity,
should turn out good work for Dalhousie. Some are popular and others
unpopular according to opinions expressed by the students. But students
as a rule are too critical and are apt to
level desultory criticism at respective
professors because of personal bias.

<-> > 
Mr. Harry Dean and Mr. Hooks
wete guests at luncheon at the Hall on
Thursday. Mr. Hooks spoke in the
interest of the Community Concert
Bureau. And Teddy Dorman fell at
last—on the way downstairs she slipped
and went bang at Mr. Hookes’ feet.

Edythe Nelson spent last week end
at her home in Stewiacke.
el

Provinces are something to live oneven if
we have not much else. Yet there
may come a day in the not too-distant
future when the maintenance of separate Maritimes will be looked upon asa
too-expensive uxury, and a new union
will arise to fight Maritime battles in
the national struggle.

a

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS |
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

Barrington and Sackville Sts.

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

Household Science: Teacher's
and Dietician’s Certificate.

Graduation Diploma.

 

MR HARRY DEAN,

Director of Conservatory

   

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
     
  
  
    
 

Demon.,

  
   
     
         
       
     
       
      
      
     
        
   

 

Universities Exchange
Graduates

 

cluding article in the reportof the
Dalhousie N. F. C. U.S.
Representative.

Exchange of Undergraduates
Plans and Scholarship. In the
course of the past two years this undertaking has become very firmly established. It bears prospect of being one
of the fruitful ways in which the
Federation can extend one of the
fundamental reasons for its organization, namely—the promotion of national unity and understanding within and
between the various parts of the
Dominion.

Space will not permit a full disclosure of the scheme but for those who
would like to enquire into the subject
in detail the writer will be only to
pleased to place available material at
their disposal.

Briefly, the object ot the scheme is
to permit specially selected students
to take a year’s work at another University in a different part of Canada;
in many cases it may permit specialized
study otherwise impossible, and in
most cases it will permit a student to
see a part of Canada which otherwise
might be impossible. The only prerequisite is that the student desiring to
take advantage of the scheme must
have completed at least two years of
study at his ‘‘home” University and,
after this year of study ata Univeisity
outside his own ‘“‘division”’ (in the case
of a Dalhousie student, outside the
Maritimes) return to his “home”
University for graduation. Through
the co-operation of the various University authorities in promoting this
national scheme, it is provided that the
exchange scholars are exempted from
tuition, student fees, which, except in
extreme cases, is more than sufficient
compensation for the railway fare
involved in affecting the exchange.

Each university may select for
attendance under the Exchange a
number not exceeding one per cent
(1%) of the total student boyy. The
successful candidates are known as
‘Federation Scholars.’’ The work ‘‘exchange” in connection with the scheme
is in reality a misnomer, as there is not
involved, necessarily, an exchange, in
the true sense of the word, between
the Universities concerned.

All applications must be in the hands
of the local selection committee (composed of the Registrar and your representative) on or before the Ist day
of March, A. D. 19382. It is the duty
of this Committee to determine whether
or not courses at the university to be
visited will be such as will permit the
student to return to his or her own
university and receive a years credit
for work taken. ‘‘Exchange scholars’’
are supposed to have an average
scholastic standing in their ‘‘home”’
University; appl icants should be students of such character and all-round
ability as would creditably reflect

 

No Mistake

You will make no mistake
in asking friends to dine,
lunch or have tea with you
at ‘*The Green’’ where
every effort is made to give
satisfactory service..........

 

      
   
  
     
  
       
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    

The Green Lantern

 

 

 

 
 

Two men talking |
on a train!

 

 

® AssoTTa WALKER. weg

[ think 111 move over
your way. What is
the most entertaining:
thing in your cit
(ANSWER) ~:

I am sure you will be
more than interested in
a visit to

PHINNEYS

Sporting Goods
Department

You will find there the very
finest line of Sporting Goods
in the city. Everything for the
Sportsman and Athlete.

  
 
   
     

    
   
   
 

     
    
       
     
       
       
     
   
   
       
     
       
   
    

there is such a divergence in the medical
courses offered in the Universities of
Canada it is impossible to arrange
satisfactory courses upon making an
interchange.

Study of Student Problems.

A permanent commission has been
set up by the N, F. C. U. S. forthe
purpose of acting as a Central Bureau
where information concerning any
branch of student activity may be
gained by individual members. This
commission also acts as a ‘‘clearing
house’”’ for various involving student
government. This commission is at
present located in the University of
Montreal.

_ Due to the heavy expense involved
in a meeting of the Executive Council
it was decided to convene in 1932.
For the purpose of alleviating any
discontinuity of the work which might
result from not holding such a meeting
the officers representing the western,
Central and Eastern regions will visit
the Universities in their particular
section and meet at some central
point yet to be determined.

The officers for the present year are:

President—Melvin K. Kenny, Univ.
of Toronto.

Ist. Vice-Pres.
housie Univ.

2nd. Vice-Pres.—M.
Univ. of Alberta.

Secy-Treas.—Percy Davies, Univ. of
Alberta.

 

D. G. Grant, Dal
E. Manning,

A matter
of choice SS

ms) ss 34 Aq

~y

Winchester

CIGAR

Blended Right!

90 rerQ5 CENTS &~

 

Leather Goods

Portfolios, Trunks

Bags and Luggage of

all kinds and sizes.

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

 
       

 
 

ass

      
  
 
 

Univer
 

Page Three

C. O. T. C. Notes

—— -——-- +

A Halifax daily recently contained
a very flattering news item regarding
the showing made by the C. O. T. C.
at the Armouries. This report, although it gives the unit more praise
than could be extracted from SergeantMajor Lolley, shows that some outside
interest is being taken in our work,
This city has had troops quartered in
it for more than one hundred and weighty years; some of England’s greatest
regiments have marched through its
streets; its citizens know good drill
when they see it, and, although they
are always willing to give praise when
praise is due, they often censor a lazy
or inefficient unit. Let us hope that
the Dalhousie C. O. T. C. will not be
placed in the second category.

The examinations for the “A’”’ and
“‘B”’ certificates will take place on the
5th and 6th of March. After they
are Over more time will be given to
drill in preparation for the C, O. T. C.'s
inspection, which will take place on
March 30th. After that comes the
annual banquet, and those who wish
to attend will do well to bear this in
mind: ‘‘The attendance, at the annual
banquet, of any person who has missed
one parade between Feb. 17 and
March 30, inclusive, will be forbidden.”

The officers of the unit and some
N. C. O.’s were photographed last
Saturday, also the rifle team. The
pictures should turn out all right,
despite a threatened accident to the
C. QM. S.

 

As this report is not entirely exhaustive additional information will
appear from time to time in the Gazette

Respectfully submitted,

D.G. GRANT,
N. F. C, U. S. Representative

 

ETTES

of course

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144
Halifax’s Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.
Covers up to six.

 

 

 

 

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax, N. S.

   
   
     
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
   
    
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
      
    
    
   
  
   
  
    
  
     
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
     
  
   
  
    

, > sy
» ¢ . ‘ .
“/ +h \
Ries ae ary

well| While the Tigers have now won two
-| games in the senior basketball league,

in,| their big test comes Saturday night
when they go up against the Wanderert |ers, ancient rivals. By comparison of
nce | their showings, the Wanderers do not

r the | suffer, as they overwhelmed the Y last
dto|Saturday night while in their game
in the | with the Y, Dal had no little difficulty
. |in winning by a close score. As things
stand now, Dal and Wanderers are

The Kings | tied for first place with two wins apiece,
ression of the|and as each team only play the others
Fanehl & onl twice in the league, a great deal de-s
*Donald turning ihe. pages. | pends nen the result of Saturday’,
non played Nanor’s ‘‘Venetian | game. If Dal ever needed rooters
eae elen Mackie ‘‘called they will when they go up against

Mbit casts Ika danced

 
  

   
        
   
 
 

Wanderers Saturday at the Y.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

rs. Marg Murray, as the}
la ‘made the hit of the evening|
, Focsiattcn then, t on a show The writer subscribes heartily to the

‘The Passing Blow”
two weeks ago re the management of
the Forum, Halifax's yey _
” with Mac Keniston as the rink. Bad enough last year, the ice tor
1 Be aay Mord as|every intercollegiate hockey game this

beloved. ‘Polly and Turner’ | season to date has been in deplorable
sion of the eee “Pran-| condition. Not to mention poor ice
of Soe % an Johnnie”’ was the next number, for nearly every workout the teams
apt ie whieh Fran Huntley starred, com- have had. It should be an easy matter
ae Leet Pe with blonde curls and chewing

Pgh char was a ened with Dot | criticis, printed in
mnt the piano, Dolly Gray sang
uching version of ‘‘Romeo an

  

    
    
     

ne : ot — ee an ice pee ar
lea Se Ses ine, cas re | has been absolutely no excuse for the
ae Kt tee Graces Vatele znd condition of the ice. It may be saving
Daeag 1° ae ee inces Daugherty. The program con | money for Clancy, but after all he is
Dae es Gaded with: other chorus. £ 1: |being paid for both workouts and
. 7 ad ati’ | hockey games, and the least he could

do is to have the ice in the best of shape.

    
  

a ¥7

sss Phe meeting ended after the usual
zs aes, _ refreshments and dancing. | \
Pine Hill Dance
lt

A aera

 

At the time of writing, it is not
A th pb Me Jee pom or ‘known whether this week’s intercol_ * "The second Pine Hill Residence | jegiate fixtures are to be staged on
mols eens ue ea ie bee ae ae ae night or Thursday. Spar
+. Ming: in the, Green ntern. tly the Forum management have shifthae a. to the Pine Hillers to put on a real be the night to Thursday, but King’s
dance amid soft lights and gay laughter.|are making an attempt to have the
% The furty couples who were present} oames staged on the regular Tuesday
ayer sete ae that it was the best | night. ! In this week’s parce ae i:

dance of the year. ; scheduled to play King’s, while Tec
__ We had the pleasure of having Profi | aad St. Haye lah.
- and Mrs. Page as chaperones. The}

_music by Parker’s Orchestra was above

reproach. We are _ not theological
 fatalists but it is evident that the next
-_ Dance committee will do well to emu- Jate the function of last evening.

 

   
  

 

After suffering an unexpected setback at the hands of Arts, Law showed
a complete reversal of form in_ their
game with Medicine by winning 3 to 1.
|The Meds previously had defeated
Arts by a score of 5 to 1. Commerce

 

Be 3

 

Bs A W NN FROM THE || |/and Engineers displayed strength in
y ret Aiea INNERS START their battle last week, ens ita orem
ee nN hen. 60) vente after they had each scored a goal in
a bar. G0" years the REACH ie avertiong:, Incidentally it was the first

pe || Mark on Sporting Goods has been
|} a mark ot carieetio n. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
iat will help you play the game
e best that’s in you.

overtime game of the interfaculty

hockey league this season.

   
  
  

  
 
  
 

 
 
 

Pa
a

.

 

  

  
  
 

  
  
 

AGG BROS CO.,1| GC ARRICK
tardy faa Sporting Goods |||} ,

  
 
    
   
 
 

i 4

am A i. J iy {
So > HALIFAX, N.S. 2 i]})}.\ Wednesday and Thursday.
nd — Sisal dee = ad ila - 9
5 A Ra “Once A Lady
Special | WITH

    
  

     

  
  

7
if.
es

»

q

RUTH CHATTERTON

_| DRY CLEANING
MPI Pee PRESSING

 

a ee
ol

Le =

oak i.

iY,
¥ Friday and Saturday
Feb. 5th and 6th.

WILL ROGERS

di hcdahiy Bill’’

EVEN:NGS 20c. and 30c.
AFTERNOONS 25c.

} i
: ny
t gg
ve a 4
a ih a ’
ti ;

ir nee EPAIRING

| | We call for and deliver. —

; . ike / e ss a Ad

| Cousins, Limited

cy. Ry fot Bh Master Cleaners and Dyers

ae | 607-11 RobieSt. 381 Barrington St
| . Telephone Lorne 2323

 
  

7 e 4
ieee |”

 
 
 

Fis
a

J

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Bie Mien’s
i | Batam Footwear

ake
* Pint

   

, ere y

a a FRIRKDALE shoes are quality shoes in every respect.
| ~~ They are all leather. . . a feature seldom found in

shoes selling at this price.
f ey ‘Made by one of Canada’s foremost shoe manufacturers, especi]. . ially for RATON’S, you may be sure that the construction
Le Aer is of high standard, and that styles are correct. _ Inspect
ff. this regular EATON line of shoes on your next visit to
fi} —_s the store! It includes Oxfords in calf and kid leathers and
om 4 _ boots of black calf. * ii
Be Boton's Second Floor.
4 |

  

—"
~_-_

oe Atty

  

~ mi SER Beet
Le a

- a 7
eh Artigtis ecarereeegee ot MLS
- 3 ‘
%

   

i = oe * 7;

 

) Tigers Defeat

 

ae

 

Tech.

In winning their second game in a
row in the senior city basketball league,
the Dalhousie Tigers sent down to
defeat the Nova Scotia Technical
College by a score of 40 to 19 Saturday
night at the Y. The Tigers had a be
edge throughout, and though the Tec
men put up fairly stiff resistance in the
first half, holding Dal 19 to 14, they
were overwhelmed in the final session,
in which Dal rang up 21 points while
holding Tech to 5.

The game was far from being a good
exhibition of basketball, but was redeemed to some extent by the showing
of Bauld and Handler for the Tigers,
and Hull for Tech. Hull led the individual scoring, netting eleven, while
Bauld came next with 9. The Tigers
made plentiful use of spares; three intermediates, O’Brien, Clarke, and Dubilier taking part in the game, while
Tech was badly handicapped in this
respect, playing only seven men. A
feature of the game was the feat of
Handler, Dal guard, in scoring thfee
baskets for a total of six points. The
teams lined up as follows:

Dalhousie: Guards, Handler (6),
Kennedy (2), Clarke, Dubilier (1),

 

Forwards, Bauld 9(), Davidson (8),

Fairstein (5), McRae (5), O'Brien,
Lorway (4). Total 40.

N. S. Tech: Guards, Sutherland (4),
Thompson (2), Berringer; Forwards,
Hull (11), Bayer, White (2), Sheehan.
Total 19.

 

- Gym Notes

Interfaculty Basketball, Sat. Feb.

' 6th.
Sec. A2 p. m. Medicine vs. Arts &
Science.
B3 p. m. Engineers vs. Freshmen.
C4 p. m. Commerce vs. Dentistry.

Interfaculty Bowling.
Wed. Feb. 3rd.
Sec. C Engineers vs. Theology, 7-9
p. m.
-C Arts vs, Commerce, 9-11 p. m.
Thur. Feb. 4th. .
Sec. C Medicine vs. Engineers, 7-9.
C Medicine vs. Theology, 9-11.
Fri. Feb. 5th,
Sec. A Law vs. Dental, 7-9.
B Commerce vs. Arts, 9-11.
Boxing.
Dal Boxing Team may have uniforms
The management of the Dalhousie
Intercollegiate Boxing Team is consider
ing. providing uniforms for the Da
team who will represent the University
at the 3rd Annual Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing Championships to be
held at St. F. X. some time in March.
(Black jerseys and yellow trunks,
trimmed with yellow and black).

The boxing team expect to be eT

in their new quarters in the small
gymnasium of the new building by th
il5th of Feb. when daily practice wil!

| be possible in preparation for the 1932,
‘Championships.

New Gymnasium Schedule.

The schedule for the new gymnasium
s available at the Phys. Director’s
office in- the Murray Homestead, for
the selection of gymnasium periods.
If you register early, there will be no
disappointments and make it possible
for an early start on completion of new
building.

Athletics.

The Dal Track and field team will
make an early start on completion of
the new gym in preparation for the
Annual Maritime Intercollegiate Championships to be held at U. N. B. during |
the month of May.

"BAS KE

    
    
   
  

Trounce King’s
Lose to‘“‘Y’

The Tigers intermediates won and
lost a game in city league basketball
fixtures lastweek, taling their first
schedules game over King’s by a score
of 33 to 28 on Wednesday night last,
and losing to the Y. M. C. A. Saturday
night 34 to 22.

The King’s-Dal. game was closely
contested all the way, with the Tigers
having a slight edge, outscoring the
King’s men 16 to 13 in the first half,
and 17 to 15.in the final. B. Stoddard
was high scorer with 15 points, while
G. Smith and Regan each gathered
11 for the King’s. The teams:

King’s: Guards, V. Regan (11), Dor
man; forwards, Muggah, Kent (4), G.
Smith (11), Hart, Tapley (2), Cole.
Total 28.

Dalhousie: Guards, C. Stoddard (2),
B. Stoddard (15), R. McDonald (8);
forwards, B. McIntosh, Mann (4), A.
McDougall (2), J. McIntosh, Smofsky,
J. Thompson, Scott, Lorway (2).

In their game with the Y, the Tigers
were shaded throughout by their
opponents, who outscored the Tigers
in both halves. The first session ended
18 to 12 in favor of the Y, and in the
second the Y piled up fourteen points
while Dal was getting ten. The teams:

Y: Guards, Robinson (12), Doane,
Nickerson (8); forwards, Gesner, Alexander (13), Marshall, Smith (1), Kerr,
Doubleday, Wallace. Total 34.

Dalhousie: Guards, C. Stoddard, B.
Stoddard (6), R. McDonald (4); forwards, B. McIntosh, Mann (8), A.
McDougall (6), J. McIntosh, Smofsky,
Thompson (1), Scott (2). Total 22.

Girls Hockey

After the splendid talk given by
Ken Purtill to those interested in
hockey on Thursday, success is assured.
The class meeting of ’32 made a difference in the number present but those
who. attended were impressed and
have made all sorts of resolutions to
use their heads as well as their sticks
during the next few practises. Mr.
Purtill discussed briefly the disadvantages under which we work and methods of correcting them, also some
helpful suggestion about tactics. The
questions asked though rather on the
humorous side did give evidence of a
decided interest.

We certainly miss ‘‘Moo” Lawrence
this year, however with a little new
experience we have great hopes for a
good team.

 

—_+--»—___

CHORAL SOCIETY.

 

Three practices left before the
Grand Opening of the new Gymnasium That means we have
much to do to prepare a program
to be presented to a capacity house
of fifteen hundred. A small number simply cannot be heard in that
auditorium, so let us rally in a
special effort to put our part of the
program over, and finish the year
with a grand finale Shirreff Hall,
Tuesdays, 8 p. m.

Gymnastics.

The Dal gymnastic squad is looking
forward to the time when it will be
possible to make use of the new quarters

TBALL.’

Y.M.C.A. Saturday, Feb. 6
6 p.m. DALHOUSIE vs WANDERERS Inter.

7p. m.

ST. JOHN’S vs Y. M. C. A.

Inter.

8p.m. DALHOUSIE vs WANDEAERS Sr.

9 p. m.

Y. M. C. A. vs N. S. TECH

Senior

General Admission 25c - Reserved 35c

 

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons
or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

“ad ‘ i ‘ ai

. . = 7 ¢ . .
ica ages are ee aa eg les ki
See maa ee eee :

       
   
        
    
   
   

 

—_—__

ikea Ren sy, eee ee eg ee Leet TMP ingeit (ie

Cae ia : he e BP iia ue | ? a 4 Vad ‘:

AZETTE Fe February 8rd, 982
a

Dal Intermediates|Interfaculty Sport| Fraternities

On Thursday

evening,
eleventh the Phi

In games played during the past
week, Law and Theologues emerged
victorious over Medicine and Engineers
respectively, Law winning by a score
of 27 to 19, while Theologues won 18
to 11. Trailing at the end of the firs
half in their game with Medicine 11
to 10, Law came back in the second
session to score 17 points to Meds’ 8.
High scorers for Law were MacDougall
with 13 and McDonald with 8, while
J. McDonald made 10 points for the
Meds.

In the Engineers-Theologues game
Wagner and McSween, and Lloy and
Scott were high liners for winners and
losers respectively.

Nelson Hotel.
nished by Joe Mill’s-orchestra.
committee in charge comprises Messrs.
Lorway, Harris and Bain.

On Friday evening, February fifth,
the Phi Kappa Pi Fraternity will hold
their annual dance in the ballroom of
the Nova Scotian-Hotel. Dean and
Mrs. Sydney Smith will be the chaperones. Messrs. Sutherland and Allach
are on the committee in charge. On
the following night the Fraternity
will held their annual banquet.

INTERFACULTY BOWLING

 

INTERFACULTY HOCKEY.

 

Ten minutes of extra play failed to
decide the game at the Arena last
Friday afternoon between Engineers
and Commerce in a scheduled interfaculty league fixture, and both teams
were forced to rest content with a goal
apiece.

Engineers got the first score of the
game in the first five minutes of overtime play when Ferguson tallied, but
Commerce rallied half a minute later
and tied the count, Stoddard making
the goal. There was no score in the
final overtime session. The game was
warmly contested throughout, and
replete with fast, clean hockey. Sullivan and Stoddard were outstanding

 

wn the matches played in the Interfaculty Bowling League during the
past week, the results were as follows:

Section ‘“‘A’’: Law, 990; Freshmen
969. Law won all five points.

Section ‘‘B’’: Professurs 1096; Commerce 1952. Profs 4 points, Commerce 1 point.

Section ‘‘C’’: Theologues 1013; Engineers 990. Theologues 4 points,
Engineers 1 point.

The standing of the league, up to
and including games of January 29,
is as follows:

Section A. Section B.

for Commerce, while Ferguson, Christie | Law 16 Profs 9
and Harries shone for the Engineers.} Freshmen 4 Commerce 5
Jack Buckley refereed. The teams} Dents 0 Arts 1

lined up as follows:

Engineers: Goal, Hawboldt; de- Section C.

fence, Corkum, Covert; forwards, Har- Theologues 10
ries, Rood, Ferguson, Akin, Smith, Medicine 6
Christie, Elkin. Engineers 4

Commerce: Goal, Mahon; defence,
Goodman, Herman; forwards, Stoddard, Sulliven, D. Hewat.

The other games played during the
past week resulted in wins for Law
over Medicine by a score of 3 to 1, and
Commerce over Freshmen 4 to 1.

Law, Profs and Theologues are leading their respective sections in the
interfaculty bowling league, and if
they continue their present form, they
will meet in the roll-off for the championship shortly.

CASINO

Thur. to Sat.
Feb. 4-5-6

DOUGLAS

FAIRBANKS, Jr.
“UNION DEPOT”

* Monday to Wednesday
Feb. 8-9-10

JOHN

BARRYMORE
“THE MAD GENIUS”

SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA

THURSDAYS at 8 p. m.

in Munro Room

We need every player in the
University

Conductor Mr. Harry Dean

 

 

 

 

 

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

In accordance with persistent demand we have decided }}
to carry a line of magazines.
We can arrange, and would be
pleased to supply you with any
periodical you regularly buy.

We will also sell yearly subscriptions to Canadian, American and Foreign publications.

 

 

 

 

Zive’s February

 

Furniture Sale

 

is now in full swing !

 

The Store is thronged with
Eager Shoppers from early
morning until closing time.

Are you getting your share
of the Exceptional Values now
being offered?

 

S. P. Zive & Son, Ltd.

“Furnishers of Happy Homes”

448-450 Barrington St.
Halifax, ~

February —
Delta Theta Fraternity will hold their annual formal
dance in the ball room of the Lord
The musie will be fur
The.

   
  
 

 

|

 
