 

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, “OCTOBER 29th, 1931.

No.

 

 

 

_ Large Audience Hears Debate

= >

The resolution that the nations

= should grant de jure recognition to
+ the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics

et
we YS.

es . ing side, representing

Pe ft OF -. Lewiston, Maine, were debaters
-_—- Randolph Weatherbee and Frank Muroes fay,

_—— “& large and_ interested audience
“2s”. fistened: Lather to the clash of words

Koss

3 ‘

 

 

~ and ideas as the fate of the Bear that
_. walks like a man was decided in a
forensic encounter, whose equal has
not been seen at Dalhousie for some
time.
_ four speakers, in delivery and material,
e
Bee ie made the debate the success
a it was.

- troduced the speakers,
_ visiting team to Halifax, and

_. the debate open.

Regen

the resolution; by
understood that minority which had
not yet recognized the U.

or official recognition does not imply
approval of methods of government

ae moral

 
   
  
   
 

3 <= igs he argued

was turned down by a popular vote of
ke 92 to 144 a
debate of the
the affirmative were
baters Howard Oxley and Douglas
_ MacIntosh; on the negative and winn
at the first intercollegiate

season. Su pporting
Dalhousie de
Bates College,

The general excellence of all

clarity with which issues were

President Stanley as Chairman inwelcomed the

declared

Oxley, leader of the affirmative,
by a definition of the terms of
the nations to be

Mr.

Ries! Re
and emphasized the fact that de jure

code of the nation in question.

Reyesee Ts of Russia, today, is
sit is in its fourteenth

year of existence, it is a growine force

  

< ehee cannot be ignored. In the last

ar analysis official recognition of Russia

 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

os eecese are two, the refunding of

4
rs

 

 
 
  
  
  
    
  
      
    

an ip —_
ss - eo i a *

a
——.

~
7

~~ conference.

France during their revolutions re
A aridant precedent, Russia needs ex~ tension of credits to develop her resources before she can pay any
The interference in Russian affairs
from 1918-20 by U. S. troops had no
other purpose than to embarrass the
Soviet government.

aad «=

,
ss
mae .” b
’

ee
'

*

- a. i

me

y America (typical of non-recognizinp

DY.

cou s dependant. on the ques“ Rae ied ee Save government fulfil

Se eaatenal obligations? These
ebts to the creditor nation, and nonterference in the aims an ideals
the United States government. In
spite of the fact that Russia has offered

‘to consider the question of indebted
nedd, the United States has refused a
The United States. and

debts, _ giving Russia

iated all

debts.

The attitude of
the United States has either history
nor justice to support it.

The propaganda of Communists is
no great cause for alarm. Persecution
will only drive it under cover. If
Communism has any truth in it, the
world will eventually accept it.
it will fade away by its own inherent
weakness.

Mr. Murray, the first speaker for
the negative side agreed with Mr.
Oxley’s definitions, and with the stand
that the question lay in Russia’s
international obligations; namely, refunding of debts, and non-interference
with the systems of other governments.
I propose, he said, to prove that the
U. S. S. R. has not shown willingness
to live up to her international obligations. Communism, the Third Internationale, by the words of its readers,
andby Trotsky a former prime minister
of Russia, are one and the same thing
with the Soviet government. The
‘Third Internationale is aided and
financed by the Soviets. And what is
Communism’s programme— The violent overthrow of all existing capital
istic governments, by strikes, riots
or other means. This is the _proHence

gramme declared by its leaders.
the U.S. S. R. is by its own words the
avowed and implacable enemy of

every other government.

And what attembt has Russia made
to live up to these obligations? Pledged not to interfere by propaganda she
has violated her treaties in India, China
Indo-China, South Africa and Latin
America. Strikes in the U. S. have
been incited by Communists. The
repudiation of her. debts are even
boasted about. She has confiscated
the property of foreigners in Russia.
- The amount of Communist propagan_ das is greater in 1980 and 19381 than
ever before. She has not even attemp~ ted to honour her debts. The burden
of proof, eeatucey: Mr. Murray, lies

 

 

 

 

U.S. S. R. has as yet lived up to her

taken.

If not

 

President of Sodales

A. GORDON COOPER |

 

with the affirmative, to show that the

international agreements with those
nations who have treaties with her.
- Mr. Macintosh, second speaker for

the affirmative pointed out that mem
bers of the Soviet government declare
that there is no association between
the Third (nternational and the- government. Revolutions are stirring
times in the history of a nation, and
drastic means must be sometimes
My own {ancestors, said he,
had their lands and homes seized during
the American Revolution and were
forced to leave the country. Russia
has not received an impartial hearing.
Tolerance and fairness are needed.
Unfriendliness is the surest way _ to
help what is worst in Russia. The
attitude of the U. S. has been that of
a Sunday School teacher toward Russia. There are many features of the
United States which should stop them
from treating Russia as a social pariah.
Russia can no longer be ignored; she
is thriving, industrious, a world power,
Russia is passing through stages in
history which are characteristic of
the change from feudalism to freedom,
viz., violent upheaval or revolution,
followed by a period of mixed principles of revolution and nationalism,
and lastly by a period of national
interests. Let us be historically minded. In a time when disarmament is
the plea of nations, it is evident that
friendly diplomatic relations with Russia are necessary. The Russian market is a factor that must be considered.
If we are to make any progress toward
peace, toward the outlawry of war,
we shall have to change our attituce
towar Russia.

Mr. Weatherbee, last speaker for
the negative and leader of his side,
quoted Trotsky to show that the Third
International and the Soviet government are united in their aims. Russia,
he declared, is not fulfilling her international agreements, and cannot by
the very constitution and aims of
Communism. Communism is opportunist. Nations have had to breakof relations with Russia because her
diplomatic agents have interfered in
foreign governments by propaganda.
Their propaganda is avowedly to
spread war and revolution. In the
matter of trade, the United Me Setmee foettiey sr | f MEM ee
prefers not to barter principles for
merchandise. In fact it is seen that
trade is not dependant on official
recognition. The U. S. trade with
Russia has increased more than that
of Britain. The repudiation of debts
by the Southern States in the civil war,
and in the American Revolution is not
a fair comparison with Russia's repudiation. She has made not attempt
to honour her debts with countries
who have given her official recognition.

       

 

 

 

ference.
public opinion of the nation.

before it is too late.
of ihe crisis.

trend of international relations.

enduring peace.

tude toward disarmament.

I sincerely hope that the students of
Dalhousie will treat these disarmament
petitions with the seriousness which
they properly deserve. It is fitting
that the opinion of the student life of
our country should be solicited in a
matter of such import, and I trust that
the unanimous wish of the Students of
this, and of other universities, may
be helpful in attaining the desired

result.
H GERALD STEWART,
Pres. Students’ Council.

Caiads: a nation consisting largely
of producers of raw material, has
suffered; as is inevitable, in the socalled crisis. That crisis, we are told
by those most competent to know, has
been brought on by three things.

1. The Reparation Arrangements of
the Versailles Treaty, which, despite
some cobbling and tinkering, are still
in force,

2. The erection of many new tariff

fpnenies in Europe, and the increase

of tariffs in the highly protected
countries, France and the United
States. (These increases are, of course,
closely connected with the reparation
arrangements}.

Increased armaments. The Marquess of Lothian stated to a London
audience some months ago that the
United States and Europe are spending
£150,000,000 more |for armaments in
1931 than they spent in 1925.

These three major matters, must of
course, be considered comprehensively.
No economist of note,no statesman of
note, has failed to warn us about the
danger of all these policies.

University students in particular
must concern themselves with such
public questions. Canadian university
students, interested as many of them
are in’ economic questions, have a
humanity and idealism which go beyond the economic aspect of things.
In the recent War they played a gallant
part. But they do not want War
repeated. The next war will be horrible’ beyond imagining, The recent
increase in armaments has brought it
nearer.

CARLETON STANLEY,
President.

The Editor of the Gazette has requested a few words on the question
of ‘‘Disarmament,’’ By that term he
presumably means ‘Reduction and
Limitation of Armaments,”’ as, despite
the Kellogg, Pact, few people with a
knowledge of history and the present
international situation venture to suggest that the world as a whole is as yet
either sufficiently civilized or organized
for eS het Se Comenmeent to warrant abolishing armed

The interference of U. S. in Russia
in 1918 was a military necessity shared
by the allied powers. The counterclaims of Russia are evidently absurd
and are merely an attempt to escape
from the claims of others. The Soviet
government has a record of broken
promises. Many disadvantages and
few advanestag will be received by
U. S. recégnition. The U. S. S. R.
must first prove her willingness to
keep faith in her treaties.

Disarmament Petitions

 

Tomorrow two petitions wili be circulated in the classes of the
Universiiy. Both have to do with the coming Disarmament ConOne, addressed to the Prime Minister of Canada, pleads
that the Canadian delegation be a worihy representative of the

The second is of more general

nature, a plea for a settlement of this fundamental world problem
The following statemenis indicate the gravity

 

The financial and economic difficulties which are everywhere
causing so much distress are formidable enough in themselves, but
more serious still, because 1¢ 1s more Jundamental, 1s the unhappy

All the important States of the

world have, either by solemn agreemeni or through the utterances
of their political leaders, declared their condemnation of war, and
yet the tendency is unmistakably away from, and nol toward,
This is because all are not sincere.
test of a nation’s sincerity in this matter is to be found in its alti
The crucial

—Field Marshall Sir William Robertson in New York Times

 

Nearly all thinking
persons are, however, in favor of
Canada adhering to the proposed
multi-lateral treaty whereby the nations
shall bind themselves to reduce limit and
regulate armaments and military forces
of all kinds for the following and other
reasons: First, force is the negation
of reason, Second, the inhumanities
of war are inevitable, as experience has
shown that war knows no law but
expediency. Third, although the process of civilizing the human race has
in the past often been advanced by
war, another world war with modern
mechanized weapons might well be
suicida!. Fourth, war is not waged now
merely by professional armies, but by
and against whole nations. In a
future war the civilian populations
would probably be a primary object
for aerial bomb raids and other attacks
from the outset. Fifth, huge military
forces such as exist in Europe, Asia,
and the United States today, and unrestrained competition in armaments
rest upon an international distrust that
breeds war, a distrust that they in
turn perpetuate. Sixth, the Great
War of 1914-18, has proved that,
despite its enormous cost in human
life and treasure, war can today
decide no foundamental issue conclusively. There is no victor; all are
vanquished. Through the conference
method and the Permanent Court of
International Justice, Reason may
succeed where Force has failed. Seventh,
the staggering economic burden entailed in the current expenditures for
armament must be lifted. Eight, the
longer the period of time during which
serious war can be avoided, the more
firmly will a world-wide habit of
peaceful co-operation be established
through the League of Nations and
other organizations for peace.

Undoubtedly at the forthcoming
Disarmament Conference the issue at
stake will be the future peace of the
world. It is, therefore, of the utmost
importance that the hands of the
Canadian delegates to that Conference
be strengthened by all of us signing
the various disarmament petitions now
being circulated in the University.
To be consistent a petition demanding
cessation of the offensive ‘Tariff War’
should be presented to the various
governments, because it and _ the
armament race (merely symptomatic
though they are of deeper social ills),
are among the principal international
irritants that justify much of the talk
about “‘the next war.

HORACE E. REID,
Professor of Law.

forces altogether.

S. E. SMITH,
Dean of Law.
R. A. MacKAY,

Prof. of Government.

he Leaders made excellent rebuttals.

President Stanley introduced Professor Brooks Quimby of Bates, who
isaccompanying the team. Mr. Quimby expressed his appreciation of the
debate, of the hospitality of Halifax.

The meeting closed without the
National Anthem, possibly due to the
sudden influx of Communistic ideas
during the evening. A banquet was
tendered the visitors after the debate,

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
COUPLE $3.00 - SINGLE $2.00

NOVEMBER 6th-------9 P. M.---2 A. M.

 

Glee Club Presents Show

 

Freshmen Fill All Roles

 

 

President of GleeClub

DOUGLAS GIBBON

 

Track Meet
Big Success

— ——— _—_

The showing of Orton Hewat, Halifax, student, Col Stewart, and Miss
Allene Mahar, of Halifax, were the
features of the annual interfaculty
track meet held on the Studley campus
on Tuesday afternoon. Hewat was
victorious in three running events, the

100, 220, and 440 yard dashes, and
in the running broad jump, while
Stewart copped the discus throw,

hammer throw and shot put.

The total number of events was not
run off on Tuesday, three remaining
which will be staged on Thursday.
Commerce are at present leading,
and unless they lose all the events
scheduled to be held today, will capture the interfaculty trophy this year.
The feature event of the day was the
220-yard event, in which Ort Hewat,
Commerce, and Murray Lloy, Engineering, last year’s winner of the race,
staged a close battle to the finish line,
Hewat winning out in 25 4-5 seconds.
Another upset was furnished in the
mile run, Mack Miller, of Bridgewater,
beating the favorite, Jimmy Muir, of
Eureka, by two yards in 5 minutes,
24 seconds. Fraser Young of Pictou
showed fine form in winning the pole
vault, but in an exhibition jump was
unable to better the nine-foot mark.

Allene Mahar, Halifax student, furnished the surprise of the girls’ event
by defeating Irene Matheson in both
the 60 and 100 yard dashes. Jean
Gardner was high individual scorer,
winning the basebail and discus throws,
and breaking her own maritime record
for the javelin throw by over four feet
in hurling the bar 77 feet, 9 inches.
Florence and Martha Keniston, Chicago freshettes, captured. first and
second places respectively in the high
and broad jumps.

While the weather was clear
sunny for the track meet, it was a
trifle cold for both the competitors
and the spectators, who did not attend
in large numbers. The remainder of
the events, are to be run of today.
The completed results will appear in
next week’s Gazette.

and

—_———_o--—____

Miss Lib. Murray motored to Windsoron Monday with her parents, Dr.
and Mrs. L. R. Murray.

The many friends of Don Thompson
who was injured in the first Dal. Wanderers game regret his enforced absence
from the University, but hope for a
speedy return.

@® The opening curtain was rung up

the footlights flashed, and -an ap
preciative audience witnessed the premiere performance of the Dalhousie
Glee Club at the Navy League Auditorium last evening. The show was
presented entirely by members of the
Freshmen Class, and while not, perhaps, the best ever seen on the stage,
was certainly a very creditable and
praiseworthy piece of ‘work,

The magnum opus of the programme
was a one act play, directed by the
capable hand of Professor C. L. Bennet, entitled ‘‘Enter the Hero.’ The
leading parts were taken by Miss
Janet Macneil and Mr. John Rowley,

ably supported by Miss Frances
Huntley and Miss Dorothy Vernon.
The plot of the piece, if it could

properly be called a plot, was fairly
familiar to most of the audience, but
the histrionic ;:ability which the actors
displayed touched it with originality
and brought forth enthusiastic applause.

Preceeding this play, were several
sicort numbers. The first was labelled
“Freshette Follies’ and the delightful
pulchritude therein disclosed, as well
as the exhibition of the Terpsichorean
art, d lighted the hearts of hungry
males in the audience.

Following the above, were two violin
solos by Mr. Mhrray Ryan, the
opening selection being the beautiful
“Hungarian Rhapsody.’ Both pieces
were well received.

The last number on the programme
was. entitled ‘“‘A Buccaneer Bolero”’
featuring the charming daughter of
our Registrar, Miss Janet Macneill,
who made a great hit with student
audience.

An orchestra composed of members
of the Freshmen Class provided the
music during the programme, and at
the conclusion, an orchestra under the
direction of Harvey Webber provided
the noise necessary for a dhort informal
dance.

The following is the programme in
detail:

A. Freshette Follies——Members of
the Cast—Martha Keniston, Florence
Keniston, Beth Atherton, Marion Finlay, Barbara Condon, Kay Morrell,
Lillian Fraser, Frances Vassie, Wayne

McKee.

B. Violin Solo Murray Ryan.
Hungarian Rhapsody....Hauser.
The": Cavatwia:s 35. view asae Raft.

C, Enter The Hero.

Directed by C. L. Bennet.
THE CAST
Frances Huntley.
Janet Macneill.

Annie Ceney
Ruth Carey o.u.. lu.
Harold Lawson John Rowley.
Mrs, Carey Dorothy Vernon.

D. A Buncaneer Bolero J. Macneill.

Faculty Golf

After a ‘hect’c battle Tuesday afternoon on the Ashburne Course the Studley Professors stood victorious by one
hole.

There was some delay at the beginning of the tournament while Professor Smith’s caddy was finding him
a ball, but once under way the play
progressed rapidly with brief intermissions during which both sides took
shelter under Professor Adshead’s unr
brella from the rain. The line-ups
were as follows:

Studley; Johnstone, Adshead, Ells,
Kent, Maxwell, MacKay.

Forest; Smith, MacDonald, Reid,
Young, Dreyer.

Two foursomes and one threesome
were made up. Studley emerged,
finally victorious, despite Professor
Read’s terrific drives, when Professor
Ells edged out Professor Maxwell by
one hole. The vituperations addressed by the latter professcr to his
ball formed one of the high lights of
the match. Professor Shorty Dreyer
did his share to augment the steady
migration of golf balls to the woods..
The canetakers forecast a hard winter
for the squirrels who have gone in for
golf balls now instead of acorns. It
was an afternoon of good clean sport

Ses: Fé 6 / eye

“* ee we

“see we ew oe

 

although Studley played the latter
pnrt of the tourney under protest
following Professor Vincent Mac
Donald’s ungolfical ejection of his ball
from the woods,

“NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL”

eee

ion aad,
= A. —

 

 

‘ile i
————
 

 

 

Founded 1869, “The Oldest College Paper in America.”
<< 8 fe en :
Bes SF sedis = dedi . Managing Editors:
ss *PHOMAS D. MacDONALD, B.A. |= THOMAS A. GOUDGE, B. A., B6295
Re ers ‘L2890 Bim WILLIAM H. JOST, B. A., B0995
‘ en ee ee eat : ba A * f : .
ark! cyte H. B. CHANDLER
oa Po tage. LILLIAN SADLER, B. A.
oe ree > Se DANIEL SPRY
Bee Girls. ot Sports Editor:
GLADYS M. JOST R. D) DUCHEMIN
a: '-—«#B9T4E , B9603
ee News Editor:
ERT 7 MARGARET DORMAN
ras ) ELIZABETH MURRAY .
‘Business Manager: Asst, Business Manager:
DONALD MAHON CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.
--B1826 B2436

Proof Editors:
AARON ZIVE, B. Sc.
EDWARD, B. HIGGINS

 

 

PRINTED BY WM. MACNAB&SON,  7-9-I1 BEDFORD ROW, HALIFAX, N.S.
ee x = < .
2 WOOING THE DOVE.

__ Ever since the close of the Great War, there has been a tremendous amount of talk about the permanent maintenance of
world peace. The League of Nations, patron saint of all good
pacifists, was formed with precisely this end in view, and although

many people are skeptical of its ultimate efficacy, it has already

Ea achieved some success. Nevertheless, in spite of the influence of

- the League, and in spite of universal peace propaganda, more

money is being expended on armaments at the present time, than

ever before. The nations of Europe, in short, are preparing for the
next conflict.
In view of this ominous fact, it is little wonder that the under
Ie _ graduate youth of our universities, to whom the War seems merely

a mad interlude in the hectic panorama of history, is beginning

to suspect that all the windy discussion about peace, is a mass of

hypocritical platitudes. Are we too, they ask, merely the puppets
of politicians, who will hurl us as they did our ill-fated brothers of

1914, into the reeking maw of Moloch, when the time comes? Is

| our blood destined to drench the world in a crimson cloak of guilt?

Or, is international peace and goodwill to be made a reality?

ns | These are some of the questions Canadian students are asking.

‘They are asking them with vehemence, hoping for a definite reply,

not theoretical but practical. And to effect this more adequately,

they are placing tangible evidence in the hands of those on whose

8 ers responsibility rests. The evidence is taking the form

_ of petitions signed by students, which will be forwarded to Prime

: Minister R. B. Bennett, urgently requesting him to see that

_ Canada’s representatives to the forthcoming Geneva Conference on
Disarmament, are strong advocates of that method of perpetuating
peace. Elsewhere in this issue, full details of the whole matter

wil! be found, and we sincerely hope that every thoughtful student

will give it earnest support. For, as Sir Arthur Currie recently
warned, the coming Conference is fraught with tremendous consequences. We indeed, reached a crisis in the course of civilization. We must now choose between descent into the

naelstrom of war, or a precarious prosperity on the smooth waters

of peace.

  

 

ARE COLLEGE STUDENTS REALLY EDUCATED?

There is a popular belief in the minds of many people, that the
average college student is educated. These kindly folk envisage
education as an actual entity; something one necessarily ‘gets
at a university, in much the same way that one becomes wet if one
is exposed to the rain. For them, attendance at college is synonymous with wisdom.

This is a truly fanciful fallacy. It is partly due, no doubt,

_ to the common confusion of two very different things, namely

knowledge and education. Knowledge is merely accumulated
information; its aim is to produce a flood of facts, a deluge of detail.
Education on the other hand, is an attitude of mind. It is char
| acterized by a spirit of individualism, of emancipation from herd
opinion, of suspended judgement and capacity for self-criticism.
Its aim is a deeper and fuller appreciation of truth and beauty.
Itis, in fact, a way of living.

_ To the modern collegian, such an attitude is absolutely alien.
| _ He (or she) possesses it is true, a moderate amount of knowledge,
: .but no real education. For example, the average student does
practically no independent thinking. His political, religious, and
social opinions differ little from those of the ordinary man on the
street. He never examines his cherished beliefs, or seeks to discover their origin. The doctrines of his teachers he generally
accepts implicitly. In short, he never shows that mildly sceptical
attitude which indicates a healthy intellect. Besides, his acquaintance with good books is scant, and his appreciation of classical
music or poetry is meagre. His outlook on life is altered very
little by the years at college. Finally, he leaves to enter the world
of business, to marry and settle down as an average citizen of an
average community, where, if he ever chanced to mention Plato
or Aristotle, people would think he was crazy.

It may seem to some that this estimation is unfairly exaggerated. And of course, generalizations are generally dangerous.
Nevertheless, to anyone acquainted with undergraduate life in a
university, we believe it will appear essentially true. Perhaps the
fault, if indeed there is any fault, lies as much with the methods of
instruction as with those who are instructed. Perhaps the educational ideal outlined above is too utopian for these times. And
yet, on any other ideal, can we honestly say that college students
are really educated?

=s a =.

¥

=

SS

=—=-—+—

*
wae) 4

 

ees OLD AND NEW.

ne ae # Late last Spring, Dalhousie’s old gray gymnasium fell a
_-_____ victim to flames and was burned to the ground. The conflagration
used considerable excitement among the students, for though the
re was only a temporary one, it served

voses. Dances, debates and examinations, Glee Club shows,
ation ceremonies and addresses, boxing bouts, basketball

on games, all were held within its walls. Little wonder

, et undergraduate activities find the absence of
rigin of the holocaus e will probably remain wreather it was the result of spontaneous combus
on, on initely say.

 
 

Pann awd If iit
4 OT

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COMMENT |

 

A°NEW SINO-JAPANESE DISPUTE
Manchuria, long the scene of a

-|tripartite struggle, has again giyen

rise to an open break between two of
the interested parties. Since the early
eighteen-nineties Russia, China and
Japan have jockeyed for position in
this region, Motives are mixed, those
of China being largely economic an

those of the other two rather politico- |.

strategic.

This latest trouble arises from a
number of causes. Japan has designs
upon Manchuria to_use,it as a buffer
against any future Russian or for that
matter Chinese, attack, Fifty years
ago Manchuria was largely a nomad
country with a small and scattered
population, Today, after thirty years
of concentrated Chinese settlement and
development, it has been conyerted
into a populous and fairly prosperous
region. Naturally China, the nation,
wishes to retain Manchuria as a pro
| vince, while the 29,000,000 resident

Chinese are hostile to anything that
smacks of Japanese suzeranity. The
opening up of the country has been
accompanied by the construction to
date of some 1800 miles of railroad, with
more building—all under Chinese control. Japan contends that some of
this rail has been laid in contravention
to treaty provisions. China persists
in looking upon the treaty in question
as something foisted upon it under
duress and refuses to let it. interfere
with development projects. |

The situation is further complicated
by the existence in Manchuria of a
serious minority problem. There is in
Kirim province a Korean element
about 800,000 strong. At one time
this territory was claimed as a
Korean province, but that claim was
abandoned atter Japan had assumed
he overlordship of Korea and signed a
treaty with China agreeing on a
Sino-Korean boundary. The Korean
population of Kirim was left under
Chinese jurisdiction with some treaty
provision for fair. treatment. Since
1907 their troubles have given rise to
some 300 formal protests on the part
of Japan, and a: similar number of
Chinese replies which failed to settle
the matter, ;

With such’ vexing differences constantly to hand and an unhealthy
mutual mistrust lurking in the -background it is not difficult to understand.
that small incidents might- cause’ a
serious breach. ‘The charge was touched off by a few minor riots and the
killing of a Japanese army officer’ im
Chinese territory. The- first. affair
was a riot between Chinese and Korean
farmers in Kirim which resulted in the
death of a round hundred of the former,
China protested and asked for in.
demnity from Japan. Japan assented
to compensation but refused a governmental payment. , The .matter hung
fire for some weeks until the incident
of the Japanese officer set that nation
ablaze, It appears that he was in
Manchuria: on a map. making survey
under the authority of the Chinese
government when killed in a brush with
the local peasants. A few days later
anti-Japanese riots broke out on the
Shantung coast over some fishing rights
dispute. The combined grievances
were taken up by Japan in a sharp note.

In early September hostilities broke
out by way of a Japanese invasion of
Southern Manchuria. On the 21st.
China appealed to the League of
Nations. After a special meeting of
the Council identical notes were dispatched to both parties requesting
abstention from ‘‘any act liable to
aggravate the situation and prevent
peaceful settlement.” Immediate with
drawal of military forces from the
zone of activity and the setting up of a
neutral commission of inquiry were
also suggested. Two days later notes
were dispatched from Secretary Stimson to both capitals urging amicable
settlement.

The Japanese at first stated that it
would be impossible to withdraw their
troops until order was restored in the
region. The Chinese forces were also
retained, and these coming into contact
with the invaders have precipitated
frequent minor engagements. The
League Council has requested that all
forces be withdrawn by Nov. 16th but
the Japanese maintain this decision
is not binding ih view of the dissenting
vote cast by their representative at
the Council meeting. She has further
reiterated her stand and refuses to
withdraw until certain concessions are
granted by China, Nanking in the
meanwhile expresses. confidence that
the League will stand by its directions.

The likelihood of war- is remote
considering the policies and internal
conditions of the disputants. The
situation, however, has reached an impasse which will only be broken by a
fresh move on the part of one of them
or by the League. The dispute in its
immediate aspects is of a local nature
and the solution unquestionably lies
in an understanding between the two
nations. It is, however, a matter of
great concern to the rest of the world
that hostilities should cease and a
equitable and lasting solution be found
for this particular region of international friction.

or

CTE
PASSING BLOW

—_———

2 The Medical Examination.

Defacers.

This year has seen the addition of a
new fee to the registration schedule,
a.fee to cover a medical examination
and the treatment of morbid conditions
that may arise after the examination.

In imposing this new tax Dalhousie
has made no innovation in the functions of a university; indeed she is but
adopting a measure that has been indorsed for some time by sister institutions. The principle of this measure
is sound and calculated to yield
mutual benefits to students and university. It protects the student
against the insidious inroad of latent
disease. It protects the university
from the accusation of letting willing
but frail members labour beyond their
endurance, with lasting detriment to
bodies and minds, In principal we
believe it to be thoroughly justifiable.

In the virtues of the application of
this principle we find it harder to
concur. Right here he it known that
we have engaged in no exhaustive investigation in the subject and all our
knowledge has beengleaned from the
posters distributed from Studley and
from the suggestions of those who, by
reason of their positions, ought to
know, But if wrong we shall feel
justified, The tax came without soliciting. The information. ought to
come in the same fashion.

It appears then that the $5 fee is to be
apportioned like this: $1,50+ o pay for
the examination; $3.50 as premium
for sickness insurance. Now the only
justification for this new institution
is the examination, To the University
we concede the right to say that a
student must first assure her that he is
peyecally fit for his proposed course,

ut no more. In some _ industrial
fields in Nova Scotia where the workers
are quite poor and improvident such
a measure may be desireable and even
nesessary, It is no more necessary
justifiable at a university than
would be compulsory life insurance or
fire insurance or any other kind of
insurance.

The policy of this insurance offers
as a maximum such consultations and
medicines as are dispensed in the
ordinary exercise of charity. Such
medicine and consultations would not,
except under this policy, be available
without charge to students, it is true.

It is suggested that some of the
money obtained from this tax will go
to improve, hygienically, some of the
lecture rooms. If this is true it will
necessitate a more than violent extension of the meaning of the terms
used to advertize the new measure.

In respect to the health examination
from which this imposition alone may
derive justification and which if adequate
wonld justify the whole expenditure;
how adequate was it? The average
student is loathe to oppose his casually
gleaned knowledge to that of aspecialist
who has devoted his life to a profession;
but the average student is still more
loathe to prostitute before the fetish of
specialized efficiency the good common
sense that has served him so well, and
that formerly enabled the human race
to exist in a state of tolerable comfort
before Hippocrates invoked A¥sculapius out of a pine cone. Common
sense can reach no other conclusion
than this; that the examination was
inadequate. If the paramount object
was to discover tubercolosis, and all
else was only ancillary, that should
have been stated. No one can seriously maintain that the examination was
general, “It was an examination”
said one recipient through which a
skeleton might have slipped without
more serious embarassment than the
casual suggestion that he was a trifle
emaciated;’’ too gross an exaggeration
to be deemed considered criticism,
yet not without value in reflecting the
impression assimilated by a large
number of students.

The certificate of a students own
doctor was not acceptable. That is
understandable. That desire to be a
“good fellow’ that motivates at on
time or another the majority ot the
race is as capable of producing iackness
in the medical as in any other professiony But, granting that, why let
this examination go at questioning as
was the case in many of its aspectsThe student who accepts a_ shady
certificate is capable of misrepresentation where it will save him unwanted

attention; and even with the best
intentions his answers may not be
conclusive. He is no doctor. Per
haps we are off on a tangent however
and the issue is the superiority of
clinic practictioners. Be that as it
may.

It is annoying to be relieved of five
dollars. If the money be devoted by
the reliever to the benefit of him relieved, the annoyance if not eliminated
is usually alleviated. But~the only
consolations that Dalhousie students
get in this case is this; that the in
(Continued on page 4, col. 4)

  
 
 
 
   

 
  

 

FROM OUR |
CONTEMPORARIES

Student Campaign for Disarmament.

Elusive Education.

University of Toronto Quarterly

Economy Dances.

Arch-Dalhousian at Oxford.

“It is not a matter of economics:
civilization will be saved to-day by
the alert, by you young people, who
have had the privileges of a university
training, who have wisdom, sympathy,
and courage,, ‘‘said Sir Robert Falconer
to University of Toronto students
recently; and it is with such feelings
that the Canadian student body has
made its first venture into the field
of public affairs in the present disMcGill and
Queens are now actively organized and
pushing their part of the work. The
Dalhousie organizers present their case
The issues are
As our President stated
in his address to the Freshmen, the
United States and Europe are spending
in 1931 about $750,000,000 more to
prepare for the next war than they
Most of the
great nations are spending huge sums
The Disarmament
Conference meets in February, 1932
at which Canada will be represented.
Are we to be there represented by
statesmen in the interests of peace or
jingoists clamoring fur another
“War to end War’? The committee
asks for the signatures of those who
And if you think
it is of no concern, remember that
very best

armament movement.

to you in this Gazette.
fairly clear,

were spending in 1925,

for armaments.

by

wish the former.

universities provide the
brand of cannon fodder.

The attempt to define education
and still more difficult task of educating
are enough to shed a gentle melancholy
on the soul of the most optimistic of
the
University of Western Ontario Gazette

Canadian protessors, For, as

points out, we in Canada are caught in
the swirl or two currents of, thought.

The American tradition of democracy

results in a horde of students, who

through perhaps equal in rights are

certainly not equal in endowments.
Mass education brings the university
down to the standard of the mass mind.
The British tradition has been selective, a tradition of intellectual development by the sweat of the brow, but
has perhaps erred in the neglect of
training followers while specializing
in leaders. The Canadian universities
have stuck to the British outlook
generally. but the problem of selecting the best in the American schools
leaves us between the devil and the
deep sea, for instance in the matter
of an hoc education. Even the conservative McGill Daily displays a
morbid tendency to approve of the establishment of a ‘love clinic’ at Northwestern University of Illinois, and calls
it an extremely brilliant, useful and
helpful idea in these divorce-ridden
times. Curtain.

Toronto has made a belated entry
into the realm of quarterly magazines
Three features of the new quarterly’s
policy are that there will be no editorials, no space for fiction or poetry, and
that only professorial contributions will
be welcomed. The Varsity (U. of T.)
objects to these features. In particular it suggests that ‘‘good poetry will

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Uticber 29th, 1931

 

be for this Quarterly what it is for its
leading contemporaries, ‘The Dalhousie Review’ and ‘Queens Quarterly’,
a bright haven for a publication often
dulled by sheer scholarship.’ This
recognition of the Dalhousie Review
is a trememdous.advance in Torontonian thought. Perhaps it is expecting
too much to hope that The Varsity wil]
change our mailing address from
Dalhousie, Nova Scotia, to Halifax,
Nova Scotia.

 

However hard the undergraduate
has worked shovelling rock or selling
aluminum ware the past summer,
opinion is unamimous in our contemporaries that cold cash among the
students is rapidly being reduced to the
most unprofitable sign of nothing,
The western universities suffer greatly
and pleas for extension of time to
fees, cheaper board, are general. The
Sheaf (U. of S.) and The Gateway
(U. of A.) announce that while social
activities must go on, dances, parties,
and theatres will have to be cheaper
or the co-ed travels alone; at the same
time rather unfeelingly hinting that
most of the women are as plentifully
supplied with this world’s goods as are
the men students. The McGill Daily
however, recalls the 1921 depression
when similar conditions prevaited,
No one wished to dispense with dances
which had become established affairs,
so a number of ‘economy dances’ were
held. A one or two piece orchestra,
light refreshments, were supplied for
a very nominal charge, These dances
were thoroughly enjoyed. The time
has come, the Daily says, to talk of
these things once more. Dalhousie
students might also take this to heart,
Few of us are attending here but are
living on borrowed money, and those
who aren’t have to write home to papa
to work a little harder for it. Prosperity may be just around the corner
but she is a few jumps away at that.
Economy in our social activities this
year may not be pleasant but it should
be a necessity.

may wander from Dalhousie, keeps
turning back in mind to the College
by the Sea, so from Oxford he sends
us a list of regulations to remind us
that undergraduate life there .s not
all beer and sk.ttles. The rules are
interesting in that their variety suggests the ways in which students in the
past have erred and fallen short of
their elders’ hepes. To a Canadian
student they offer a range of forbidden
pleasures that are irresistible. For
instance, it is against the rules to hang
around the stage door of a theatre.
This is rule one, so it must be generally
disobeyed. Coffee stalls and public
streets are no places to loiter, Public
dances are taboo, and private dances
are allowed only by permission, Public
bars of any sort are on the blacklist,
The undergraduate cannot attend entertainments that have not received
the official license. He is expected to
reside in the college. He is shut out
even from heavenly joys, including
ascent in a balloon, without the consent of his parents, and the permission
of the dean. A man may not enter a
woman’s room, but a woman mav
enter a man’s room with a special
permit and a chaperon. Mixed _parties require official permission, including boating and motoring parties.
All of which induced the poet to exclaim that this freedom is a noble
thing.
—————»>-o_______

Miss Polly Burris and Miss Gladvs
Jost went to Wolfville on Saturday to
attend an Acadia Dance, :

Miss Jean McDaniel of Truro was
the week-end guest of Miss Dorothy
Vernon,

Miss Ruth Ciandall was in Wolfville
for the week-end.

 

oR aS aR ae aa OER, Sor SP ec

 

$27.00

dress accessories such

studs--links--shirts

 

A Tuxedo Suit

complete with silk vest
------in fashion and in
price ours are the suits
of the season---beautifully trimmed garments
guaranteed to fit perfectly--------as are all
Shanes clothes----
 

a multitude of}.

  

: eee :

 

seems to have been a:blessing in disguise, for it resulted in the fine
structure which is now being erected on the Studley Campus.

The Board of Governors.is ‘to be highly complimented on its
prompt action in making possible a building which bids fair to
overshadow any gymnasium in the Maritimes. Especially does
the Board deserve credit for’seeing fit to spend such a considerable
amount in these times of business depression and financial disturbance. : ‘One can, indeed, conjecture how great a problem lies
before the members and one can only wish them good fortune in
solving of it. Certainly, the students should show their ap
will be the nd tangible Sense.

 

apportunity, for the new gymnasium|

ties---etc-----priced to
meet your budget ----
 

ow ee ee ee ae ee

Mens Vi

is Wear Shop
Spring Canden Rood

    

s LS

ad <% *. + os 5

a 7 7s 7 f ae “

af Pies dite’ Prt iC
. We

as
a | yO hay i

‘beh
oe - ea eee Ea

roap f ey ey
r Boek ee Py *
= ) & 3 “<
ee

<
   
   
     
  
  
  
   
        
    
    
     

ae i |

ap ae ¥
ee oes: . ‘ f
on mre,
eas
oe a
Oe pis
em ee

etober 29th, 1981

ee =
4 ree

calty:> 5;
Foot ball
Arts-Frosh Tie

Arts, who recently

_ Wanderers Win |Interfa
_ City League)

ir +
Ss

F
a
*, a. ¥
4
7

is 
 

Finis was written to Dalhousie’s
short and hapless football season
Saturday when the Wanderers
_ the Geld and Black their third straight
setback in the Halifax City League
and. clinched the championship, by
a score of 11 to 0 at the Wanderers
- grounds,
_ the play, the Wanderers outplaying
Dal in all departments: of the game

i, .

 

draw.

ing particularly in the latter, and| Engineers.

_ checking effectively any Dal threats.
Two penalty kicks from the boot of
_ “Tiny” Herman counted six points qd
for the Wanderers before the first half | ©:

fell on it.

which culminated in Bebby McCoy’s| Performances. The line-ups:

_ dash over the touch line in the second Pe
half added another three points, Ed- Mader,
wards converting the touch to roll up

_ the score to eleven. The game was a
listless affair, confined to some extent
to a punting match between Herman
and Connor, with Herman haying. the
_-edge, although Connor’s kicking was)

lor, Rood, Tapley,

Squire, Mahon, Longley.
Arts:

Aikens,

Christie, Nicholson,

a, . feature of the i te ers
ee" oth teams started out at a furious clip .
ir which promised some action, but} Law Defeats-Meds..
--——s goon _the game settled down to the Fee ak kn
spectacle of a rather disinterested] Law defeated Medicine in the first
a Vanderers team battling a dispirited game. these teams have played in the
e. Dalhousie outfit, and the fans found} Interfaculty League by a score of
-___ little to enthuse over. The scene on| 6 to 3 on Saturday on the Studley field.

' ——s much as a wake, the three cheer leaders
bh. brought out for the cccasion being
~~. unable to arouse anything but the
| — feeblest moans from a discouraged band
‘ 1e4 of supporters. ey ’ ,
j 2 _ Play moved promptly down to Dal’s
Rh

game when they dribbled the ball
over the line ‘and C. R. MacDonald
fell on it,

'¥

25-yard line soon after the opening
whistle, and Dal elected to take a
throw-in instead of a scrum when it
' —C Was seen that the Red and Black
— ———s heeled out the ball five times to Dal’s
/ —- . once, Stoddard tried a. penalty kick.
| —~—~—s from: ‘Wanderers’ forty-yard line, but

‘

tied the score, Webber making a touch
which was not converted, but soon
‘afterwards Law? retaliated ‘by. making
Pe but} a 45-yard run for a touch, Coleman
se missed by many yards, the ball falling} going over.’ The teams lined up as
___ short, though having the right direction | follows: Careers
_---——s«- From then on the game developed into|- Law: C. R. MacDonald; R. Squires,
a kicking contest, with the ‘Wanderers. Cowan, F: McDougall, Grant, McCul--— superior kicking making heavy gains. | Jough, Finlayson, A, MacDougall, FosHunter missed a 30-yard penalty kick| ter, Hicks, Coleman, LeBrun, McGuin_--—s which ~was awarded by. the referee} ness, Smith, Matheson.
_ ~~ when Harvey Sutherland threw the} Medicine: P. Magonet, J. McDonball into the scrum crooked, but he]ald, Webber, Peters, Fairstein, Mcmade good later when Sutherland, who} Curdy, Gibbons, McDonald, Teasdale,
. aa was an offender in this respect through- | Hiltz, H. Magonet, Silver, Outhouse,
--—-— out_the game, repeated the  offense,| Gaum Wright...
t sending the oval from the forty-yard| Ort Hewatrefereed. —
line over the goal posts, the ball hitting]© = sti

‘are
i,
2

— 6h

   
    
   

 

» the crossbar and rolling over. Dal} oS foo
ee a agreat chance their halflinegotthe} 9S
We + ok fe. y + . = ad + ed . & etty run but +) < EY * sina - r = 2 d
... ball and started a pretty run, _ Law’Takes Lea
|". _ Drover passed offside, halting the play.) 9." :
-__- Edwards was forced to touch tor safety. | - my epee | ES SRS SY
few 2p. the Kick, and reptated \BAReY BY)! ty: bddedl td: thee. lead in their

E F Wanderers kicking forced Dal _ to

Bere, |) touch for anfety-againe,,.Hetyaa mise br c-tydifenting Conimérce “at. the
ye Leda Byard free kick which Sutherland St miley ue Giby Sdoae FD to bon
Monday, October 26, for their second
straight victory. McDougall made
the touch for Law early in the game,
and it was converted by R. McDonald
for the extra. points. Baird went
across for Commerce shortly afterwards
but. the: attempt’ at convert failed.
Law resumed the attack in the second
half; and’ Commerce had difficulty in
stopping them from scoring.
line-ups: ;

Law: Squires, MacDougall, McCullough, Grant, Finlayson, McInnis,
Smith, Foster, Coleman, Lebrun, Matheson, Nicks.

Commerce: TT. O’Brien, Baird,
Bishop, McFarlane, Stewart, Orr, Stoddard, Hatfield, Hewat, Staveley, O’Brien, Brown, McIntosh, Tapley.

“Col” Stewart and “Big Jim”
McDonald refereed. —

    
    
     
  
   
    
  
   
   
    
 
  

-——s again contributed. The score mounted
Bede eee boon the half ended; Herman
sending a long penalty kick over the},
_~.~—s«&Drover, Thompson, Hewatt and
--—s« Oyler were playing a fine game for
the collegians, the only bright spot in
the Dal team’s performance. The
_ kicking game was continued in the
second half, Connor and Herman both
making ‘excellent boots out of touch.
; ia eae. were awarded six penalty |
| kicks for infractions by the Dal:players
in the final session, but were unable
Lies? to make any of them count,, while
-_ Dal was awarded one, Stoddard failing
to send the ball over. There was no
: - doubt as to the issue, the Wanderers
a, Bo ical being plenty big with the Red
- and Black practically controlling the
play. Woolner and McCoy nearly
provoked official action when they
«squared off, but Bobby changed his
nind when he sized up Woolner.
Nanderers got away to a fine half line
run in the ere minutes of the game,
running from the half line to Dal’s
_ twenty yard line, where McCoy got
the ball and, easily evading the Dal

a

."

 
   
 
 
   
 
  

 

 
      
  
 
   
  
  

The Observer

—_

back line, circled them for the only
touch of the game, placing the ball
- ‘squarely between the posts. Edwards
| had no difficulty in converting it.

eh The playing of McCoy, Herman,

and Jack Buckley was a feature of th
*" ~——s game, ~Another feature, not so well
pronounced, was the abundance of
___ feeble throats in the Dal stands. While

the performance of the Dal team was
anything but brilliant, it was not made
any easier by the support which was

accorded them by their so-called
sj ae rooters. The teams iined up as follows:
eee
forwards, Boyd, Hamilton, Herman,
 Duffus, Grant, Dompierre, Webster;
ae. =
gs three-quarters, McCoy, Hunter, Rainnie, Oxley.
wards, Cooper, Stewart, Woolner, MacRae, Murray, Sheppard; halves, H.
__ quarters, Drover, A. Sutherland, Thomson, Stoddard, Hewatt. Lf .
_—s Petty “Officer Evans refereed satis
This is Tommy Goudge’s pun, not
‘ours. Ata charity dance last week he
told it to at least six people; so it must
be pretty good. ;

Said the doctor; a delicate Freshman ““T, B; or not T, B.—That is the
question.” ;

 
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 

e Here’s a good old story—but we
didn’t hear it until recently. Zoology
III students of former years vouch for:
its truth.

A certain lady on Morris St. lost
her pet cat, and having hunted diligently, she became suspicious, called up
police headquarters and requested that
the Forrest Building be searched.
Well—the policeman went up and re‘quested that he be allowed to look in
the bin, or whatever it is they keep
the, cats in before they are painlessly put to death.

He left the building with a contented
cat purring under his arm—not the
unfortunate lady’s—but his own.

  

"
(4

os i,

Wanderers:» Fullback, Edwards;
2 halves, Thompson, Piers, Buckey;
--~—S-« Dalhousie: Fullback, Connor; forutherland, Oyler, Davidson; three
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 

_—_—__—o

Interfaculty
League Standing

 

Things can’t be so bright about Dal
|this year. Prof. Ells, at least, found
things getting a bit stale, and motored
to Acadia last week to attend a ‘‘dance”’
in the gay college town of Wolfville.

 

es «AM Section. Eo ae
wan y Last week Miss MacKean came upon

WwW L T  Pts.} Messts,Rowley and Slater (prominent
reers...... 7.0 1 3|Freshment) in the “Hall” reception
Meher. o:.2° => 7D 0 ~~ 2)room... Apparent. they” had- been
feel vere sats 0 them hy oy 1| there for-some time, and becoming
=f re suspicious, she asked if they were

“*B”’ Section. waiting to rehearse for the Glee Club

waa show. ‘‘Oh—No—no practice today’’

ee W L_ T_ Pts} “Then-you have called for someone?

MEA retiisvecka~ | (0 0 4) “No, no they replied nonchalantly
Medicine...... 0-1 0 0|—“we just thought we’d drop in for a}]
a 0. »-@/-smoke,”’-_.... ’ z |

ren anelS

  

 

lost by a onegave sided score to the Freshmen, sprang

a surprise in the Interfaculty League on
Saturday last when they held the
strong Engineers squad to a 3-ail
The ore hry is being
a A rotested by the Engineers on the
eyes Sent indicated | eround that the Arts line-up included
three ata one 7 whom ree
: Sotet % + excell.| responsible for the touch against the
running, kicking, and tackling, excell- | "&5P I The ‘Ruchita managed
to tie the count when they dribbled
the ball over the Arts line and Mader
Neither touch was convertDickie, for the Engineers, and

had ended, and a brilliant half line run| Nicholson for Arts, turned in fine

Morrison, Smith, TayLodge,
Ferguson, Dickie, Scott, Harris, Lloy

McDonald, D. . Ferguson,
Coegle,
Horwood, B. Squires, Doyle, Ferguson,
Green, Sutherland, N, Ferguson, Kopf.

the Dal stands resembled nothing so} It was the first meeting of the teams
‘in three years, and the accumulated
rivalry of time was evidenced in the
play, plenty of action being shown.
The first half ended 3 to 0 in favor of
‘Law, who got the first touch of the

Early in the second nalf the Meds

-section-.of the interfaculty. Rugby.

The

 

DALHOUSIE a ETTE ACT
- Sodales Plan

Sodales Debating Club under A
Gordon Cooper, Miss Marie Ferguson
obert T. Donald are

 

SS PE

Dal Wins Tennis
Tourney

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Dalhousie tennis players were vic-.
torious in the intercollegiate series
between players of Mount Allison,
Acadia, and this university, clinching
the championship by winning the
deciding tourney at the Carleton
courts on Saturday last over Acadia.
While Dalhousie has yet one more
tourney to compete in, the points
amassed so far greatly outnumber the
nearest competitor.

Dalhousie players entered the intercollegiate tennis series this year for
the first time, and their showing has
been highly creditable. The members
of the Dalhousie team are as follows:
F. Cole, D. Bauld, V. Oland, J. Vooght,
and R. Brown; and Misses M. Lucas,
M. Clancy, E. Saunderson, C, Jackson,
K, Morrill, and M. Creighton. The
performances of Cole and Musgrave
have been a feature of the meets,
neither having so far lost a set.

In the matches in which Dalhousie
players have competed, they have
defeated Mount Allison 13 matches to
3 at Halifax, and over Acadia at Halifax 11. to 2, and at Wolfville 10 to 5.
The remaining tourney at Sackville
will likely be staged on Saturday next.
The result of this match, however,
cannot alter the standing. The following are the results of the tourney matches at the Carleton courts last Saturday:

Men‘s Singles—M. Musgrave, Dal
defeated H. Cox, Acadia, 6-4, 6-4, D.
Bauld, Dal, defeated D. Crease, Acadia,
6-4, 6-4. F. Doyle, Acadia, defeated

tentative agenda. It will be

tainment and a changing ‘house of

a training ground for future’ or a tors.
If kegs the practice of holding radio
debates, initiated two years ago, will
be continued. In this way the University and the Province at large have
been brought into closer relationship;
instruction and entertainment. have
been disseminated and a closer sympathy received.

Sodales deserves the cooperation of
€very student at Dalhousie, for it
performs this threefold function. It
trains in public speaking and in lucid
expression of views; it affords an
Opportunity to exchange ideas, a
student forum for the debating of
university problems. Finally it performs
the great duty, through radio debates
of placing the university in its proper
relation to the community.

By this time two debates will have
taken place. An account of the second
is on the front page of this issue.
The subject of the first was, ‘‘Resolved
that the University authorities are
justified in charging every student the
sum of five dollars for medical examination and service;” it was held in the

R. Brown, Dal., 0-6, 6-4, 6-4, Y,|Munro room. Miss Dorothy RedOland, Dal., defeated J. Young, Acadia, mond and Mr. Gerald Stewart argued
6-4, 7-5, the affirmative against Mr. Fred

Wigmore and Miss Marie Ferguson.
The former team was supported in
its persuasions by a majority of one
from the audience. Although the
negative argued forcefully and cleverly,
the masterly rebutlta of the affirmative
carried the day and induced many
listeners to vote for the resolution on
the strength of the arguments advanced; though against their real convictions, as was evident from the attitudes
of those who spoke from the floor.

An early debate will be between
Freshmen and Sophmore classes in
competition for the Bennett Shield
(donated by the Hon. R. B. Bennett,
Premier of Canada, for intercollegiate

Women’s Singles—M. Lucan, Dal.,
defeated G. Phinney, Acadia, 6-4, 4-6,
7-5. E. Saunderson, Dal. defeated B.
deWitt, Acadia, 6-1, 6-8. C. Jackson,
Dal., defeated M. Morse, Acadia, 6-0,
6-0. M. Clancy, Dal., defeated M.
Caldwell, Acadia, 2-6, 6-3,7-5

Men’s Doubles—Musgrave and

Bauld, Dal., defeated Cox and Crease,
Acadia, 6-4, 10-8. Oland and Brown,
Dal., defeated Doyle and Young, Acadia, 8-6; 6-8, 7-5.
_ Women’s Doubles—Phinney and
DeWitt, Acadia, defeated Lucas and
Jackson, Dal, 9-7, 9-7. Saunderson
and Clancy, Dal., defeated Morse and
Caldwell, Acadia, 6-1, 3-6, 6-2. ©

Mixed —-Doubles—Musgrave and
Lucas, Dal., defeated Crease and
Phinney, Acadia, 6-1, 2-6, 7-5. The
remaining three mixed matches were
not played, the Acadia players having
to leave for Wolfviile at 4 o’clock.

 

  

WHEN OUTFITTING
YOUR TEAM

WRITE US FOR PRICES
ON

      

 

     

Ce In: Fie

   

Spalding
Athletic

Goods

AND OTHER HIGH-GRADE
SPORTS SUPPLIES FOR
FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL,
GYM EQUIPMENT, ETC.

Dalhousie and Wanderers intermediates are tied for the leadership
of their section of the City Intermediate League as a result of their 3-all
game at the Wanderers grounds last
Saturday, each team having each
won, lost, and tied a game apiece.
Saturday’s game was hard fought, and
marked by the number of. penalty
kicks imposed by the referee. Both
teams made their three- points on
penalty kicks, Stoddard sending the
ball over the bar in the first. period.
and Mahoney, Red and Black forward,
retaliated for his. team with eight
minutes to go. Although Wanderers
tried desperately to cross-the Dal line
in the second half, hard and timely
tackling by the Dal players prevented
a score,

Charlie Anderson, Sydney student
on the Dal team, suffered a broken
collar bone when he was brought down
after a hard tackle, and it was necessary to remove the injured player to
the hospital, where, however, his
condition at present is satisfactory.
The Wanderers also suffered one
casualty, Nelson Green suffering a
broken nose after being tackled. With
a man short, Dal was hard pressed to
prevent a score, but managed to hoid
off the Wanderers until the end of the

   
   
     
     
 
       

ee
Prompt Service on
Club or Individual Orders

  
  
 

‘456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

    
 

game. The line-up:
Wanderers: Fullback, Davenport; HALIFAX, N. S.
forwards, Fry, Summers, Mushkat,

Webster, Partington, Johnson, Mahoney; halves, Lane, Oxley, Sperry; threequarters, Lavers, Nickerson, Marshail,
Green.

Dalhousie: Fullback, Lorway; for
wards, Eagles, Menzies, Archibald,|§]Our High Quality Standard

makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

Proctor, Kennedy, Rowley; Goodman;
haives, Brittain, B. Stoddard, Goss;
three-quarters,

Davis, Theakston.

Govert,

Anderson,

 

G. A. McDonald

TOBACCONIST $ 2 4
Smokers Requisites of every
description MADE TO MEASURE

A complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

21 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 

Kindergarten to Matriculation Art Department

| Halifax Ladies College : :
Conservatory of Music “on eee e ae

Musi¢ in all Branches. Teacher’s Certificate. Graduation Diploma.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.
MISS E. FLORENCE See OOD B.A.. MR. HARRY DEAN,

Director of Conservatory

 

ideas for the Student Bedy as well as

“) '
hy >
+ a

s Active Year

 

. | debating*.
the debate-off.

from St. Francis Xavier will debate
Dalhousie team in Halifax.
the same month Dalhousie
tertain and debate
representing Queens University
pices of the National
Canadian Universities,
associating Maritime and
Colleges.

In addition to the foregoing the
officers are planning a Parliamentary
a
parliamentary session and will be the
next debate at Scdales; several infor
Debate which will take the form of

mal debates in the Munro Room; and
a number of radio debates if possible,
There will also be two sets of debating
trials for the selection of members of
the teams participating in the interGood speakers on
prominent topics is the motto of the
club and a season of good debating is
Any who are interested in
intercollegiate debating are requested
to turn out for the trials; any interested
in the regular Sodales debates will
please give their names to. one of the

collegiate debates.

assured.

officers,

Following that will come
,|the Senior-Junior debate,’ and then
planning a very
full and interesting schedule, for this
term and have already placed a large
number of interesting debates on their
the
purpose of the club this year to further
develop the trend of the last two years
by making the club a source of enter
Next February a debating team

During
will enagainst a team
and|A
Guelph and travelling under the ausFederation of
Debates like
these are very valuable in more closely
Canadian

Page Three -
Pine Hill Notes

The limerick rage has at last struck
Pine Hill. An edition of these classics,
compiled by two prominent residents,
is now available at all leading soda
fountains. Get your copy early,

Pine Hill owes to its popular Dean,
Dr. Thomson, the organization of a
Round Table Discussion Group.’’
“What is Wrong with the World” is
the topic now under consideration.
large question we will admit, yet
at the same time we venture to assert
that Dr. Thomson’s superior in the
intelligible discussion of current events
is not to be found in Canada.

The theologs are with us again after
their summer’s exile. With Gordon
Fraser back we will have “quiet hours”’
for a change.

The square dance marathon is becoming a bright light in Pine Hill's
activity. Some of the Cape Bretoners
are in favour of substituting the bagpipes for McSween’s bow and fiddle.
They are under the impression that
the boys would get a great kick out of
it. We know at least one who certainly
would.

 

  
    
 
   
    
   
  
 
 

a

Two Pine Hillers are making the
acquaintance of the pretty nurses at
the Victoria General. Charlie Anderson dislocated his shoulder in Saturday’s game with the Wanderers, while
Don Archibald is suffering from an
ailment not yet diagnosed. Here's
your chance to make a name, ye aspiring Meds.

 

A MATTER OF TASTE?

... Winchesters, of course.

 

Winchester

CIGARETTES

 

 

    
 

o
Bhs

UTM Ht
NISSAN

   
 

Sap iN wy itit
SNA
TMAWY

 

IN
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Twenty-five scholarships of $76.00 each.

Write Or call for Calendar or advice.

 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

 

 

————

Leather Goods

Trunks
Bags and Luggage of

 

 

Portfolios,

all kinds and sizes.

 

KELLYS, LTD

118 GRANVILLE STREET.

 

|

 

 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

B.6144

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.

More than two, 20 cents extra.

Covers up to six.

 

id |

 

BIRKS=

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellry depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED.
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N.S.

 

eS ale

 

 
  
     
 
   

  
 
 

  

es

 

St

R J. S. THOMSON, Pine Hill Divinity Hall.

1%
eS q ‘’

a The
¥ al J Epa

Ps Bs a

VE

E :
oC
TOF RSS

ie
a 1!

*
é

udent Forum -
    

e with ith restraint about mod-|for decades before the Revolution, _
Ak iat-anieasy task for} It is obvious that if students can

eves in literary ideals. | become so worked up, as for example,

 
 

    
  
   
   
  

   
  

»
Am,

  
  
     
  
 
 
 

3" min ‘at a station book-stall| when a year or so ago, the members of
provides such feelings of active manner E. Ahzar, the greatest Moslem univerhat en I hear of a group of people|sity in the world demanded that the

- who propose’ to add to the torrent of | curriculum should be modernised and
trade. 1 am moved to exclaim, ‘Off| went on strike until their demands were
th their heads!” At best magazines| met, their minds are not occupied solely

are an insidious device for wasting| with dances and debates, or with footeen ne post hex should be publicly | ball and ice hockey. They are think- named for corrupting the quiet feelings| ing rather furiously, as indeed many

of the state. Most of ournewspapers|in Dalhousie are, if in a less demonfall well within the latter category.|strative way. It is this aspect of
y are an outrage to the eye and to} University life reflected in the Gazette
“mind. I suspect that if Caxton| that will differentiate it from a rather
? seen what was to come of his ven-| well-conducted High School magazine.
ture, he would have smashed his press.} We do not expect a University
me he Gatien” the world of journalism was| periodical to betray the portentious
mer young, Dr. Johnson is credited with| gravity of a literary quarterly. The
_——-s saying, “The mass of every people Dalhousie Gazette will not aim at
ee Gaee te nations where there is no print-|fulfilling the role of being the Dalet f ' ing, and consequently knowledge is not|housie Review’s small brother. If
| “generally diffu “Knowledge is dif-| grave people take their pleasures sadly,

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
  
 

  
 
 
   
   

We .

fused among the people by the news-| it is the privilege of students to dis
      
 

.

Poi sane? Ip sri i things pleasantly.
ar) * s.” 1 suppose he was right and|course on serious things p y
re Piave ano Y case of ‘‘corruptio| Universities are notoriously the home

5 es optimi pessima.” If we follow the| of wit; humour is a development that

or ‘great or’s definition, we have two|comes with middle-aged corpulence.
e pM oe our ‘hands—who are] We look to the student pages for witty
ae the people~ and what knowledge do; verse, with a spice of impish sardonic;
_--—s we wish to diffuse among them~ These | at times even for the lampoon when it
| are the cannons that should guide the|is necessary. It is good for pontifical
|. editing of a university magazine. | gravity to be laughed at, and youth
| + The people are the University, | can do the“laughing with fewest tears
eo ice President, professors, lecturers and | and the least bitterness. The only
ee este ‘students, not forgetting that umbra effective commentary on much that
behind the scenes, the Board of Gover- | calls itself up-to-date, is simply ridicule.
oF  nors, They are a rather diverse com-|Let the irresponsible undergraduates
_—s pany, yet they are, or ought to be, not | get to their ink-pots!

 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  

Bens ms ass of individuals but members of d yet, who so serious as youthsa ccorporate’body. They form a world The political candidate who is en= within the world, with common in- deavoring to persuade a stolid audience

Pe  terests and loyalties. To share in the|that humanity will probably perish,
Poh fife of such a community, small enough | if he is not returned to parliament is
ss ta: “be intimate, but sufficiently large|a trifling debutante compared to the
ee. to represent a wide range of interest solemnity of a student debater. The

cae aed occupation, is no insignificant | University magazine ought to have a

Saal part of what a university can mean place for this more serious type of

- ‘te its members. To provide at least| discussions. It should aim at being
Ee hon ee raidinas tor fostering this corporate|the students’ Forum. If there is

.

i a spirit is one of the major functions of | going to be another war, it is not
es Se nnawetenty journal. E those who discuss the problems of
x :

: Every university is troubled by | international life at safe range beyond
3 e
Der

i aa J ™
i «nt

 

i

os

a reese,
__ Ever Ee tiie its walls of a num-|the fifty years of age mark who are
a Ai heavy -minded youths who re-| going to be the cannon fodder, but the

a
i wy
we
o + _—
as %

 
   
 

    

-—s gard it as a place where one attends} young folk. If we are entering into
Glasses, which are a necessary evil if} a new age in world history, who so
ee ena. to pass examinations, and| vitally interested as the men and
te © erent lly win tie right to extend one’s | women who are to live their lives in it?

; ur name by two or possibly four letters— If we need a new literature and a new
the whole process being a somewhat | art, let us hear the opinions of those
5 st: distasteful episode in progress towards who are to create them? The distilling
Elis Ee die oa th jie one’s life-work. It is oases of public opinion need a
called “going through a university’’|fermenting vat. If we are going to
Bawerrke Seesigtion is apt. The uni-| be pacifists in war, we need the sharp

| ss sersity is a place to be attended, not a|encounter and clash of mind with
Pete hae ta, eired: A university, like| mind. To suppress ideas only drives
ae them underground. Out with them

=
pe

Dalhousie, where the great majority
patie J ety eee a reo is weoabed then into the columns of the magazine
; . in a peculiar way to this attitude on ‘The increased profits from sales will
_—s the ~p2:¢' of the members. And yet, | pay the fines of the editors if they are
sete ea a. are to think of the contribution arraigned for sedition, and perhaps

; ae, ‘i

: made by great universities to the life} even “College Humour”’ will go out of

eof ee tid. daroash their students, | commission.

| _——s it is made through a subtle spirit sup-| ~—

ported and diffused by loyalties and| —
enthusiasms, which men and women |

have breathed into their being like

 

a

All that is Refined |

= eae: phere. Dalhousie will '

i= Beas | the life of Canada when she in Men's Clothing is Yours

puts a mark on her alumni, not like a with the Fashion-Craft

| trade stamp or a mass production Label |
uniformity, as vashes in our standard

of values and an attitude towards life,
which can be more succinctly described
in the word character.

- We cannot say “Go to! let us have a

_ corporate spirit.’ The racial conscious

ness is sustained by much talk of this

and that. There needs to be inter
~-* course, discussion and common inter
ests on many levels, trivial and serious.

The University magazine is the meet
ing place for student life, in which we

should hear the buzz of animated con
versation. What knowledge do we

wish to diffuse? We shall not scorn

to record who kicked a goal for the

Varsity or who ambled round the floor

at the Lord Nelson and with whom,

Debates, dances, meetings—all that

a goes to make up the life of the univer
- + gity and creates the small-talk, which is
such a subtle factor in fostering human
relationships. All that we take for

' granted, and it means more than it
wears upon its face. haa

Pie But what more? The university is
a world in itself but it is not a world
apart. Contact with many European
Sf countries and lands in the near East,
mi reveals what to more Anglo-Saxon
people is the astonishment of finding

that student opinion counts for something. In more than one country within recent memory, students have overturned governments and framed national policies; in at least one instance, they

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
    
  

 

HATA
FEELING

of confidence a man
enjoys — and inspires
in others too — when
his clothes are distinc
2 ojected a revolution. In China,
ea apan, Turkey, Egypt, the univer- tively correct in style,
ba - sities and colleges are the real breeding- quality and fit!
| ___ grounds for public opinion and somehe. times for political action. It was the You are assured of

this — and also utmost

tra. pont of Germany who set her on her
value at whatever price

feet after the war and in Russia com
 

  
   

= 7 munistic ideas were sedulously sown a ‘
be [ice as. FASHION-@RAFT
eect C SINO CLOTHES

, > Jd -< 7 . : 2

Be. . 1} "Wednesday to Satuaday f $95
te OCT. 29, 30, 31. rom

ts 7 a ] | f ; : JOA N >

mee BS pe Fall Accessori
ee x a Han
sien _ —IN—. ox ats
ge Sar ‘6 a © 3 ?

“This Modern Age

 

Gloves Spats

Colwell §

Brothers
Limited
HALIFAX

with NEIL HAMILTON
_ MARJORIE RAMBEAU

 

AA

 

 

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Distinguished — T. he Passing Blow Konner and :

Alumnus Smells
Smoke

(Continued from page 1)
tentions of the instigators were likely
‘good, Next year they may see the
jerror of their ways to the advantage
‘of future freshmen.

At one time it might be claimed
that a University drew its clientele
from the upper strata of the intellectual
world. There were exceptions, it is
ture, in occasional sons of the very
rich who were drawn to college by
other forces than the love of learning;
but in the main that proposition was
true.

Today it is apparent that a representative group of students traverses
in its derivations any intellectual
classification. This is the only inference that may be drawn from the
actions of those irresponsibles who
have defaced and violated the disarmament petitions that have been posted
during the past weeks on the bulletin
boards. These individuals ought to
be ostracised from any respectable
institution except a lunatic asylum.

It is a depressing realization that
when a subject so vital to every member of this civilization as disarmament,
is at issue, all that some of a reputed
intelligentsia can think about is an
idle and profane scribbling. Not only
have these vandals shown a disgracetul regard for the efforts of others to
solve a situation of awful seriousness;
they have contributed to vitiate those
efforts by making them the subject
of ridicule. With civilization drifting
rapidly toward that point of division
from which one branch leads to social
stability on-a high plane, but the
other to chaos, in such a crisis these of
the reputed leaders, out of sheer irresponsibility are accentuating the
trend in the latter course.

This week will see the further
circulation of such petitions. If you
do not care to sign, at least do not try
to destroy.

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear. Sir:—

I wish, as a loyal alumnus of Dalhousie to protest against the recent
most-decided step towards modernism
taken by the University authorities.
The old college by the sea is fast losing
sight of the old ideals that were so
predominant when Howard, Archie
and Dr. Hohn were familiar figures on
the campus. Ora et labora is no
longer the password. Shades of Herbie
Stewart, what is the place coming to?
What is smashing down all our old
staid and set principles? On, we might
have guessed it, it is woman—the fount
of all mischief, the worry of all fathers,
the base of all mothers.

Who are responsible for our plucks
caused by distraction? Who can we
blame when out football players lack
condition? Who are the causa causas
when Council Meetings wax hot trying
to decide who shall be hosts at our next
dance? Women, we cry. Women of
Shirreff Hall! Not content with the
mischief they have wrought in the
past they are still fighting for ‘‘women’s
rights.” Have you forgotten their
cry of two years ago. We women
want a yell to yell, if the boys have a
yell to yell, why can’t we havé a yell to
yell. It was an awful howl. Now
they have decided that they want to
smoke at Shirreff Hall, and they are
going to smoke at the Hall. Before
they could only gossip but now they
can smoke and gossip. Won’t it be
hot! Itisa drastic step for the authorities to take. What will the mothers
say who are losing their daughters for
the first time. And the straight laced
fathers. And there are lots of them,
aren’t there, girls? Think of the old
gossips, who wait longingly every year
for the Delta Gamma dance, so it
seems. What a subject for them.
It really seems that the only ones
the move will please are the tongue
waggers and Bill Wrigley—the gum
king. It certainly will be a break for
him. He ought to pay for the new gym
at least he should be approached. It
looks like the beginning of the end,
The old Dalhousie is crumbling. But
for Awchie, Stan and those who have
gone before let us make one last united
stand. Let’s keep the sweatahs and
gum out of the class-room, the cigarettes out of Shirreff Hall. What do we
come to Dalhousie for? Ora et labora.

Yours truly,
JOE COLLEGE.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

WINNERS FROM THE

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection, No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

   

The Nova Scotian Hotel.

SUPPER DANCE SATURDAY.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA
IDEAL FACILITIES FOR
Afternoon Teas, Private Dances, Luncheons

or Dinners.
TELEPHONE B7231

 

 

October 29th, 1981 °

 

ing a late supper for the convenience
of those who wish to attend the Capitol.

e ° The Supper will be a special event at
Midnight Show a very moderate price and the show
= and supper in combination offer an
attractive evening’s entertainment.
On Friday night of this week the| The attention of the Gazette readers
management of the Capitol Theatre| is called to this dual function that is
is: putting on a Midnight Show. Mr.| being promoted by two firms that
Hart of the Green Lantern is arrang_| advertize in the Gazette.

 

 
   
 
     
   
   

   

MIDNIGHT SHOW |

THIS FRIDAY NIGHT, OC17. 30
11.30 p. m.
—FEATURE—
**New Adventures of
|| GET-RICH-QUICK WALLINGFORD ”
, WILLIAM HAINES ERNEST TORRENCE

Bstiissastist.

Sstestesssssusstisssttosectessessess

serie

tithe oe
seebasseses sees
Stiese $3
sttsrss

 

RESERVED SEAT SALE OPENS THURSDAY
Orchestra-Balcony 60c.

Also---YE OLD TIME COUNTRY STORE
(Midnight Show Only)
7 15 PRIZES TO 15 LUCKY PERSONS

[Trt

Loges 75c.

    

—s

    

 

 

Do Not Go Hungry

Have a light supper before the midnight show
and you will enjoy it that much better.

SPECIAL FOR FRIDAY
9 to 11.30 P.M.

—30c--
‘* Capitol Sandwich or Toast.

Ice Cream. Cake.
Tea Coffee or Chocolate.

Green Lantern

 

    

  

 

  
  
  

 

  

    

Next Week
Monday and Tuesday

MAURICE
CHEVALIER

DAL UNIVERSITY
STORE

   

—IN— .
‘The Smiling eis hoe phe the
Lieutenant” Dalhousie Crest.
Wednesday and Thursday Prices:
CYRIL MAUDE 5c. 10c. 15c. 20c. 25c.
Sat and 35c.

“These Charming
‘People’

Evenings —- 20 & 30
Matinee 25 Children 10

We have also a new
stock of laboratory
books,

  

 

SUPPER DANCE

9 to 12 p. m.

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
HARRY COCHRANE’S ORCHESTRA

Cover Charge $1.00 Service A la Carte

The Lord Nelson Hotel

   

 
   
    
        
 
   
 
    

 

Saionig Footwear

For Men
Pair $5.00

‘THE leading value in moderately priced footwear!

EATONIA boots and shoes feature black calf and
kid leathers in different smart styles from which to
Choose. All have Goodyear welted soles and rubber
or leather heels. Sizes 6 to 11.

Eaton's Second Floor

This is an EATONIA Value — A typical example
of EATON Low Cash Prices.

#T. EATO N. Cee

 

 

 

 

 

 
