  

Certs

VOL. LXVII.

DAL MUST DEFEAT

Refutes| Renders

~ Critic
Clique Charge

_ To the Editors,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sirs:—
| With a great deal of appalling
surprise to us, it is reported that
Sodales has this year formed into a
clique. Our alleged intention is to
favor but a small selected number
of students from the Law School to
the exclusion of all other Dalhousians.
- That such is our intention is a
monstrous lie which will be proved
by subsequent activities of our Society.
But that only a small number of
students are favored by Sodales is the
truth; a truth that is shameful for the
student body as a whole and deeply
regretted by the Executive. The number of participants at the trials held
lately was so small that it indeed
seemed as if a clique was at work.
' Still the doors of the Munroe Room
were wide open, the trials had been

timely announced and but approxi-|

mately SEVEN students turned out,

Pp —y
Be

b ee six of which were law students. Con-_ glusively the student body judges that
|. Sodales has not its raison d’etre. It is
E ‘no longer an honor to represent Dal. housie on platform or radio. Elo. quence, as some vague art or science
2 practised by Demosthenes, is the
t archaism of the day. ‘“‘Clam-mouthed
ness” is in full fashion. Mr. Editor,
if that is the belief of thestudents,
Sodales refuses to spend uselessly the
money allotted to it and will close
shortly.

The Executive has drawn an ambitious program and will see to its
realization. But, alas, our present
fear is that half of the contemplated
debates will receive the six months
hoist. The reason: No debaters, always the same handful of men appear
at trials.

This next month will see interfaculty
debates. This innovation was contemplated to stir the faculty spirit and

, pride of the student. But much to
our disgust, we have to search extensively in each faculty to find two men

who are “willing to put themselves

out” to such extent. A shield to the
victorious faculty is promised, but

a such is not an effective impetus. A
‘semi-humorous topic, that would require little or no preparation, leaves
nevertheless everyone indifferent. In
another field, arrangements have been
miade with the local radio station.
All the necessary time for debates
\ has been offered to us. Such debates
yes, are a marvellous means of developing
ones oratorical abilities. And _ incidentally, Dalhousie would get its
y share of valuable and much needed
advertising. On the other hand, the
crowd that attended the British debate

lately proves that such are still appreciated. Contrary to current belief,

; citizens of Halifax will encourage
| -~—~—s (Dalhousie’s activities and will not
; hesitate to pack in the gym or turn

: the dial of their radio to listen to an

interesting topic.

Everything is just about perfect,
BUT should Sodales promote a debate
when it is forced to select two men
from a handful of volunteers?

* Truly, discouragement is our lot.
_ ~~ To these one flea-power critics, we
a offer the privilege of being in the
“selected clique’ and show up at the
= next trials. To every Dalhousian,
we say: S.O.S. (Save our Sodales ).
: f “

Lionceau,

EE

Tribute
To Team Spirit

The driving rain of last Saturday
failed to dampen the ardour of Dalhousie’s football teams nor the _persistency of its loyal rooters at Redland. As usual, our gridiron stars
showed that fighting spirit and fine
team play which of late we have
grown to expect of them. They played
brilliantly—but lost! On their defeat
[ congratulate them; for in losing
they showed the true sportmanship
which is inherently Dalhousian. They
stood in bright contrast to their opponents and the circumstances which
the good referee saw fit to create.
Confronted with such overwhelming
odds they were beaten only by the
slightest margin. I doubt if words
alone could describe the disgust, and
real anger which most of the fans
experienced during the game. It was
a decided blow to fair play and good
sportsmanship and luckily was not
witnessed by too many.

Unless my Bulova watch has failed
me that game was called at the end
of only 82 minutes of the regulation
385 in the second half, just when Dalhousie was threatening seriously to
tie the score, and even then with a
team of only 14 men. That is probably
self-explanatory and needs no: elucidation.

It was a real Dalhousie day just the
same for all interested Dalhousians.
Notable among the sparsely scattered
gallery of spectators were President
Stanley, Professors MacNeil and Fletcher and Dr. Holland, Major Logan,
and others. Our hats off to them
and many thanks Also, lo and behold, among the crowd there were
at least afew of Dalhousie’s co-eds
who braved the elements to help on
to a victory that was earned but
denied them,

Yes, Dalhousians, the display of that
game was too much even for a trained
tiger. Our sleeping tiger awoke and
instead of the timid beast expected by
many, a growling and injured animal
appeared to strike its protest. Regardless of the decision at the protest
meeting such action was very much
in order and Doc Barnhill is to be
commended,

Wake up, fellow students! Let’s
show them tomorrow on our own
field how we intend to expiate the
injustice done! With fair and square
play let us trounce that red machine
just as surely as they should have been
trounced last Saturday. We want a
banner attendance, a real interest at
Dalhousie athletic events. Our team
is the finest in the League. Let us
help them with renewed vigour in a
determined climb to the top. Lou
Hogan wil! then probably have to buy
his own cigars.

—_-——_0- — - ——

Flesh—Ritchie has resumed his
historical interests of former years.
The Archives Building once again
holds great attraction for him.

BASKETBALL

Roy Gold, Manager of the
Tiger basketball squad, has call
ed the first practice for Tuesday,
Nov. 3rd at noon. Everybody
interested in playing is cordially
invited to come out.

 

‘‘THE COLLEGE

many:

nal, Sa

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 30th, 1936

 

Criticisms Of The Gazette

In an honest attempt to improve the
Dalhousie Gazette, your campus publication, we have taken as our subject
for this week’s campus _ interview
column the following subject, ‘‘What
in your opinion are the glaring errors
in the Gazette and how do you suggest
the publication might be improved?”’

Henry Ross, First year Med student
and football star. The Gazette is to
be congratulated for the attempt
it is making to give the students the
type of publication they want. One
glaring weakness as I see it however,
is the space they devote to the activities
of the Moot Court. Certainly the
doings of the Lawyers and Lawyerettes
do not merit front page prominence.

Margaret Drummie, First year
Law student and Assistant Manager of
the Law Interfaculty Football team.
The Gazette shows definite signs of
improvement and the editors are
attempting to give the students what
they have been clamoring for. As te
how it can be improved I have no
suggestions; it is satisfactory in my
opinion as it is.

Wink Johnston, graduating student
in Law. Oh, I do remember the
Gazette in my younger days at Dal,
but to tell the truth I haven’t seen
an issue this year.

Ted Watson, Engineering student
and member of the Student Council.
The only weakness in the Gazette in
my opinion is due to the writer of
the Commerce Notes. Never have
I seen anything to rival the tripe he
wrote for the last issue and [| take this
opportunity of warning him never to
enter the draughting room.

Stewart Sterns, student of pharmacy. Haven't any opinion for the
simple reason I never have time to
read the Gazette. Pharmacy takes
all my time.

As to the editors the only fault they
have to find is that students do not
show sufficient interest in it from the
standpoint of contributions. True this
year seems better than past years in
this respect but it is our wish to give
through the columns of the paper the
general opinions of the students.

 

Corrects Writer |May Give Address

According to information received
from Mr. Murray Rankin, SecretaryTreasurer of the Students’ Council, the
“Footballing Engineer” writing in last
week’s Gazette is under a wrong impression. The correspondent in question complains that it is a pity that
there is not enough hot water when
the University gets half the gate
receipts and is paid for the ground
upkeep as well.

That is not true. At present the
University gets none of the gate
receipts. At the end of each game
the gate money is taken to the University office where it is credited to
the Council, and against which account
the Council is debited for expenses by
the University in connection with
field and gymnasium upkeep. In fairness to the University administration
this correction must be made.

 

Cubs Victory

Dal Intermediates vs. Wanderers

Playing on a slippery field the Dal
Cubs avenged their defeat of the
previous Saturday by taking a 12-6
victory over the Wanderers Intermediates. The condition of the field,
and the fact that the ball was very
hard to handle gave most of the play
to the forwards and left the three
quarters very little chance for organized
runs. The first score came a few
minutes after the start of the game
when Hodgson fell on the ball after a
dribble. The Reds soon made it
3 all when Laidlaw attempted to
safety the ball after a Wanderers punt,
but it slipped away from him and was
quickly pounced on by Fudge. The
final half opened with Dal pressing
hard, and Lipton put the Cubs ahead
by following up a fumbled ball after
ten minutes of play. He scored again
a few minutes later to make it 9-8 for
Dal, but the Wanderers partly closed
up the gap with an unconverted try
by Cotter towards the close of the
match Rankin put the game on ice

(Continued on page 4)

It is with great pleasure that students
familiar with his name and reputation

hear that attempts are being made

to get Mr Escott Reid, Secretary of
the Canadian Institute of International
Affairs, ex-Secretary of the League of
Nations Society, and noted political
scientist, to speak to the students either
Friday afternoon or Saturday morning.
If these attempts are suscessful, Mr.
Reid will probably speak on either
“MacKenzie King’s Foreign Policy”,
or “The Situation in the Far East’’,
Mr Reid has just returned from the
meetings of the Institute of Pacific
Affairs, and will provide an address of
great interest to all interested in these
questions which are of such vital
importance at present The Gazette
welcomes Mr. Reid to Halifax, and to
Dalhousie.

 

Inter-Faculty

Medicine 3—Law 6

Medicine defeated Law by the close
score of 3-0 to tie up the Interfaculty
League leadership with Arts and
Science. The only score came near
the beginning of the game when Bob
MacLellan crossed the line in the
corner after a nice run, The convert
failed from the difficult angle. The
game was very loosely played and
was highlighted by the performance
of Harris at fullback for the winners
Grant, lawyer forward, was forced to
retire owing to an injured hand, and
it is expected that this will keep him
out of competition for the remainder
of the season,

Commerce-Engineers 8, Freshmen 0

The Freshmen suffered their second
straight defeat at the hands of Commerce-Engineers to the tune of 8-0.
The first half ended with no score
after a fairly even performance. On
the renewal of play the upperclassmen
turned on the power which resulted
in a try by Hubley on a pass from
Chernin. A few minutes later Dean

(Continued on Page 4)

 

  

Frosh Show
Friday,

November 6

 

 

 

No. 6

 

 

REDS

¢
Europe’s Crisis | Ref’s Rulings
Boldly Analysed Rile Rooters
On Monday afternoon, before a

gathering composed mainly of Political
Science students, Captain H G Scott,
internationally known expert on world
affairs, delivered an address on “The
Situation in Europe’, one of the most
interesting talks heard around Dalhousie for some time.

Captain Scott has just returned
from an extensive trip in Russia, and
he gave his listeners an excellent summary of conditions in that country.
The Soviet regime has passed through
its constructive and destructive stages,
and is now proceeding in a normal
manner. Stalin’s new constitution is
expected to grant the people new
liberties, although in the main it is
mere deception. The prices of ordinary staples are normal, and the
standard of living is rising, although
the people seem somewhat subdued.
However, it appéars that Russia is
not to be allowed to continue in peace.
When Hitler, in a recent speech assailed
the Russian government, he probably:
started again the ancient struggle
between the Slav and the Teutonic
people.

Germany, with her tremendous rearmament program, is headed for
bankruptcy. If she halts the program,
then millions are left unemployed.
And the only solution is war, Hitler
believes that he could do wonders
with Russia’s resources. He will probably attack in aS. E. direction through
Czechoslovakia, which will be overwhelmed. Whether he will succeed
depends on his supply sources. There
is no doubt that he has the most highly
trained army in the world.

As for the rest of Europe, Hungary
is spoiling for a fight to regain her
lost possessions. Italy has visions of
a vast empire, dominating the Mediterranean, which England will not tolerate,
France is on the verge of civil war,
because she lacks a leader. The war
in Spain has brought out a struggle
between two forms of government,
which will probably spread all over
Europe. Freedom is gone and civilization is crumbling. Perhaps Italy,
Germany and Japan may crush Russia.
On the other hand, Russia and France
may combine to conquer Germany.
No one knows.

The only hope seems to lie in Great
Britain, which is the reason that the
matter concerns us so vitally. It is
a stupendous thing to realize that
within the next few days, even hours,
the course of our whole lives may
be altered by the actions of some
ambitious individuals thousands of
miles away.

Elect Leaders

The Freshman Class made their
first attempt towards organization last
Saturday when they met for the
purpose of electing their officers for
the present term. With a very small
attendance the meeting lacked any
form of enthusiasm whatsoever. The
officials of the class feel sure however
now that they are no longer under
the jurisdiction of their upperclass
men they will come into their own.
Bud MacDougall who is taking the
leading part in the Frosh Glee Club
production ‘‘Cinderella’”” was the choice
for the presidency of the class while
Peggy Merkel was chosen as vicepresident. Allison Conrad and Bill
MacKay were elected secretary and
treasurer respectively.

 

 

Under a fair wind and a following sea
the Wanderers edged their way to a
9-6 victory over the Tigers last Saturday. The game produced some fair
rugby, good soccer, and fine water-polo.

The first Dal try was made by McGregor through sheer aggressiveness in
following the ball. The second displa yed the finest piece of headwork offered
in the game. Gaining control at the
Wanderers’ 35 yard line, with no
immediate help about, the newcomer,
eased the ball along with his feet,
refusing to pick it up. A well-placed
boot put the pill in position for a
fall-oa giving the necessary three points,
putting Dal in the lead.

In the last pericd due to the fine
playing of Rex Joudrey, Wanderers’
half, the Reds gained a 9-6 lead. Near
the clese of the game the Tigers seemed
to get a reprieve from defeat when
that powerful pillar, Duff Stewart's
leg, was called upon to kick a penalty.
With the faithful who had garnered
bets frem-2-1 to 5-1 holding bated
breath, the sodden sphere rose with
a mighty effort to the bar only to fail
finally by a scant six inches.

Connor who seems to play better
in a muddy meadow than in a dry
field played a great game, saving the
team time and again. Phillips, DeWolfe, and Cook, were particularly

effective among the forwards. Armstrong played a fine game. All in all,
every member of the team showed

a fighting spirit sadly lacking in Dal
teams of the past few years.

The strategy board while realizing
the hard task of refereeing such a game,
feel that several decisions and interpretations by Ref Anderson give good
cause for protest. Whatever way the
protest goes, the fighting force that
gave such a good showing on Saturday
isnot yet defeated. The ground was
for the most part held by Dal. The
scrum got the ball a majority of the
times despite a heavier opposition,
showing that they have the fine scieace
of surging down cold. The backfield
turaed in a good game, considering t
handicap of a wet ball which rendered
a passing game near impossible, and
showed some fine tackling.

We'll get them tomorrow!

 

No Badminton

The D. A A. C. has decreed that
there shall be no badminton for students this Saturday. This decree,
contrary to some reports, is not inspired by any Hitlerite ambitions,
but merely because of the necessity of
preserving hot water for the football
players after their game. The D A.
A. C. chose, and rightly so, the alternative of stopping badminton to that
of giving our footballers a dirty deal.

 

DIRECTORY

The Students’ Directory will
make its appearance on the
campus next week. The Direct
ory shows a decided improvement over those of former years
and Mr. Fisher is to be congratulated for his untiring efforts
in this direction.

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
   
   
    
  
    
    
   
   
    
   
    
  
 
 

~~

I. M. MacKEIGAN, M.A.
Ph. B2436 ©

 

: Associates.
ra Edward Arab, B.A.
. MacLatchy, B. AL Earie Fraser, B.A.
oo “Sugasetle Pearson . ‘i F 5: Macnutt
Ses Geo. ‘H. Murphy, BAL en Layton Ferguson
; ‘F Sr apostes itor. Sports Editor.
- ROLAND HURST S. EDGAR STEWART
= a Bipy BST Ph, B5580
2 eee OES Sayer etty” Assotiates.
a ry a es ? vy Ce. me i
: a twa usted 2 => L.A, Londrevitie IEA:
; as cKe zie i” Roy Gold
ves - ee, j fe) ae : weet ene Jick ovnokta
* i Ne os f c .

Assistant Business Manager.

hey OR i tgs R. L. ARMSTRONG
Phone B 5700 :

| Business Manager. ‘

GORDON K. DAI
‘Phe B5700 
 

Proof Editor
| CHARLES ROBERTS
a“ SS oem
-- INCONVENIENCING THE STUDENTS

ve fall eases University authorities have seen fit to inconvenience a
oe SBeie who can little afford to be inconvenienced, tosay nothing
of the student body.
Bees Remember how that cold drink went after that game of
oa badminton, ping pong, basketball, or what have your. Well,
; no longer can you utilize the famed window (now the bone of
contention) in the lower gymnasium because ‘tis said too much
dirt accumulates there as a result.
It was not thought that proper receptacles placed there with
a word of warning might have cleared up the situation. The
ee Baby way was to close that window.
ments To us this seems rather high-handed and absurd. Perhaps
okt thee reason dirt accumulates there so readily lies at another door,
we namely in the running of the lower gym. A. stricter control
ie would eliminate much of the evil complained of, but why pass the
a : buck? It is not fair to the students and to the proprietor of the
e, This situation should be remedied immediately so. that
students, will be allowed, the usage of the window.

oa tae

a UPP PP ‘OF RTING OUR eee eer

—

of the Gazette-does he ever
paid for by the man
ed his shoes? Does _
ws - publication posakless j¢ yb at best. Make

ee supporting ‘the firms

em vhar the ey saw the store’s advertise: een can do this little bit to help make

  
    
  
  
   
   
 

Ve

_ THE FREEDOM OF THE DALHOUSIE PRESS

ag es Howe bequeathed to us in Nova Scotia a free and
Sc doesel press. Dalhousie since her founding has borne the
Se _ reputation of an independent, non-sectarian institution where
. thought and speech might have free rein. The Gazette is thus
vas the honoured inheritor of a double tradition. Unworthy though
we be of that honour, we, as Editors, shall attempt to uphold
that tradition.
If at any time we tread upon anyone’s toes without justice,
we ehall be glad to make amends; and we welcome to our cor_ respondence columns all who differ on any question with views
oo ee in the Gazette.
But if we are convinced that what we have published is true,
etty threats and indirect ‘pressure’ will wring no false apology
| rom us. In saying this we have no wish to set ourselves up as
aes - little: gods weighing the fate of menin the balance. It is rather
a matter of necessity that this should be our policy—any other
would nullify our object of constructive and impartial criticism
Rar of college affairs.

       
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
     
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
   

ri
the

és

A SQUARE DEAL
English ceed of this present day and age has not achieved
_ the popularity that it deserves.
. Old timers recall the stirring battles fought at Redland and
_at Studley when the names of Lilley, Haslam, MacCoy, Hunter,
and unnumerable other football greats were on everyone’s tongue.
What is wrong with the rugby games of today?
In our humble opinion, after watching the majority of the
games for the past few seasons and particularly this year a good
~ deal of the blame lies with that much criticized individual, the
Bier referee. The last Dal-Wanderers game saw an abundance of
___ off-side play, the advantage rule totally forgotten, and a complete
ignorance of the game.
Do the referees know the rules?

It hardly seems so and the players too figure prominently
in this Setact’ There has been too much offside play, too many
penalty kicks resulting from loose scrum work—in other words
the game has slowed up. It is not fair to the fans and players to
have poor refereeing. The teams practice daily—interest is
_ keen—the day arrives—and then the referee so completely domimates the play that he practically holds the game in the palm of

his hand. What the fans want to see is good clean rugby, devoid
of that ever persistent whistle. That is what will put rugby back
wh ere it belongs, but if the game keeps on as is it will soon fall
Perhaps two referees would make the game fairer.
ies name of fair play let every one team go on the field
enowing tat get a square deal!
The players too must play the game for they can make it
I a yr the referee as they see fit. If they abide by
2 ill not be much whistle and not only will they
e fans will also. Let us have this cooperation
Sa spee at Studley tomorrow and we prophesy

. +

ve

njoyable game. of the season.

~| worse today,

Crime

‘|give his name in confidence to the

Crime began early in man’s history

and occupies a prominent place in it.

The first crime- was committed by
Adam and Eve. God placed them in
a beautiful garden and gave them
everything that they might desire;
he gave them perfect bodies and spotless souls. Yet they ate the forbidden fruit and with what awful
consequences, Since-then, the human
race has been weak and’ we have been
sentenced to work. And now after
nineteen hundred years, we find that
Crime is on the increase. Religion
is being rapidly discarded, which in
turn is accelerating the increase of
crime. We find, for example, such
learned scholars as Dr. Barnes- openly
declaring that there is, no euch thing
as sin or God.

.In its early stages crime’ was bad
enough: but we must: admit that it is
In the olden days the
centers of population offered safety
to .the people. Robbers did their
work in secluded spots. But today
we are compelled to admit that as
unsafe a place as exists in the world
is a great city; and the most unsafe
thing a man can do is-to undertake
to carry money from one bank to
another. “It seems quite probable
that our laws are not strict enough’’
Says one writer, but surely that is not
all; something is wrong with our
system of distribution.

For those who have never studied
Law, it will perhaps be in order to
define a few terms. A crime is the
commission ‘or omission of an_ act
which the law forbids under penalty
of a state imposed punishment. The
field of crime is divided as follows:
(a) petty offences, i. e. those offences
within the jurisdiction of a justice of
the peace or magistrate; (b) indictable
offences, i. e. those admitting of
trial by jury. Felonies, misdemeanours
and treason are usually listed under
this head. Criminalogy is the Science
which deals with crime and criminal
penalogy is concerned with the punishment of criminals.

The importance of the crime problem
is great. According to the National
Commission on Law, the annual cost

_, {of Criminal Justice alone in the United
States is in excess of three hundred
and fifty million dollars ($350,000,000).

‘Census figures show that on the first
of January, 1931, there were over one
hundred thousand (1000,000) persons
in the state prisons and reformatories
of the forty-three (48) States. Moreover, every year crime is the cause of
many deaths, injuries, and: inconveniences, While we may never be able
to abolish crime, surely its rate can
be reduced by intelligent measures.

There are several historic theories
of crime. In the early Middle Ages
we find a belief in man’s free will and
his responsibility for his acts. Legal
practices, however, were often colored
by barbarian religion and philosophy.
It is claimed by Evans that animals
were tried in the courts of this period.
Existing evidence disproves this, for
as said above, men were held responsible beings and animals as _ nonrational. It was at this time that
St. Thomas wrote: ‘The devil is a
cause of sin by persuasion or by
proposting the object of appetite.”

During the so called classical period
laymen took a great part in legal
procedures. They used Roman law
which confers great power on the
judge. After 1764, due to corruption,
these judges lost much of their power.
This was effected by prescribing fixed
penalties for certain crimes; i. e. the
punishment was made to fit the crime.

In the Neo-Classical period we find
a reaction against fixed penalties,
Certain exceptions, it was found, had
to be made for such persons as the
insane and children. Accordingly this
school of thought established maximum
and minimum penalties for crimes and
thus the judges regained much. of
their former power.

H. E. Barnes (Dr.) and Clarence
Darrow are important figures in the
recent positive school. This. school
denies the existence of free-will and
individual responsibility. In short,
they claim that man is a slave to his
environment and hence society cannot
punish him,

In 1876 Cesare Lombroso claimed
that more than a third of all offenders
were “born criminals”, These, he said,
could be recognized by marks on their
physique. Thus, for Lombroso, the
person with a flat nose, disfigured ear,
peculiarly shaped head, etc.,-etc., was
either a criminal or.at least very

(Continued on page 4.)

The Problem: of| The Mouthsices |

practise,

(Ed. Note: Will ‘Perplexed’ please

in order that his letter may
No letters are published

Editors,
be published,
unless this formality is complied with).

DENTAL STUDENT SUGGESTS
COOPERATION WITH MEDS

Editor of the Gazette:

In spite of the numerous papers and
lectures on the subject of the necessity
of cooperation between Dental and
Medical professions, the required understanding and necessary respect have
not as yet developed toany appreciable
degree.

It seems that only rarely
physician aware of the extremely

valuable services the dental surgeon

can render as diagnostician and
consultant. His services are indispensible not only in the routine examination as related to operative and
Prosthetic dental service, but also in
relation to the mouth and surrounding
tissues for the detection of either
obscure complaints or for establishing
such a relationship, if existing, between
our field and the patient’s general
condition. It seems to us that the
time has passed when a patient could
come to one’s office and demand to
have a certain anaesthetic, the extraction of a tooth, or make other requests.
As the conscienctious physician will

his patient a thorough examina
is. the

a

give
tion, no matter what the complaint,

so must a dentist look upon the mouth
and related tissues as his field which
must be thoroughly examined, and
then go even further and communicate
with the patient‘s physician if there
is the slightest indication for it.

One often hears physicians remark
that they have examined the patient's
mouth and that certain teeth should

be removed because they carry a
gold crown or because a tooth is
discolored. Such findings, of course,

do not condemn such a tooth because
it may be good and serviceable despite
its condition. Today the examination
of the mouth is not complete when
only using.a mouth mirror and an
explorer, but must include aside from
the ordinary clinical examination an
antra- and extra-oral X-Ray study,
a vitality test, and transillumination,
Such the physician cannot accomplish
as he lacks the proper training.

“We as dentists of the future also
believe in the principle of periodic
health examination of the mouth as
well as any other part of the body.
In fact, the dentists have appreciated
this for more than 18 years and have
created the dental hygienist whose
duty it is to subject a patient's aN
to prophylactic treatment and call |
the dentist’s attention to the presence
of any pathological condition. This
periodic treatment in combination
with the X-Ray examination, will
prevent many conditions, a successful
treatment of which at the present time
is either difficult or impossible.

To prove the necessity of cooperation
between the two professions and their
respective specialties, it 1s important
to call attention to the following
example: Vincent’s infection of the
mouth cannot be treated by the
physician or rhinologist; even if it
also affects the tonsillar region the
treatment of the mouth must be left
to the dentist or the periodontist
because the daily instrumentation of
the free gingiva is the most important
part of the treatment with which the
physician is not familiar.

If we now believe in the importance
of this cooperation, we must not stop
with applying the same to our private
but must establish a similar
relation in hospitals, The medical
board should insist upon the creation
of a complete dental department
under the supervision of a general
dental practitioner and the appointment of dental internes and hygienists,

The dissemination of knowledge
by exchange of thought and experience
among oral surgeons and other medical
and dental specialists, as well as among
general medical and dental practitioners, at frequent conferences, where
cases should be presented or reported
and discussed freely and honestly
by all participants would practically
reach the ideal. The physician, after
a thorough study of this patient
should stress the importance of the
examination and treatment of condi-.
tions of the mouth, which on account
of his limited dental information,
is not in a position to make,

Only frequent discussions of the
problems confronting the two profes
he

(Continued on page 3.)

 

October, 30th.. 1986

Something to 44. |The Problem of) The Mouthpiece Something to Think About

From Ontario comes the interesting
news that a woman has been arrested
fot disseminating birth control information. The nefarious conduct alleged
against the culprit is that she taught
indigent mothers of large families
how to prevent the birth of unwanted
children. The fact that these unwanted infants will be an added
burden on already destitute parents,
that they will be reared in an environment and under conditions that will
render the probabilities of their ever
becoming useful.members of society
extremely unlikely is not to our mind
the strangest feature of the case.
What is most surprising is that here
are supposedly free and independent
citizens who do not desire to undertake the onerous responsibilities of
parenthood. and yet the law of the
country deliberately prevents them
from obtaining the necessary information as to how to carry out that
intention, the law of the land deliberately fostering ignorance.

How those who profess to be shocked
when they read of Mussolini and
Hitler demanding that their people
have more babies can reconcile their
indignation with their complaisant
acceptance of a law which prevents
people from learning how not to have
more children is beyond our comprehension. Remembering the frailities of man we cannot see much practical difference between saying ‘You
must have children” and “You must
not learn how not to have children.”

Recent events in the United States
warrant the warning that similar attempts to curb the freedom of speech
in Canada must be stopped before they
assume more dangerous proportions.
We learn that Terre Haute the
chief of police arrested Earl Browder
in order to prevent him from making
a speech in that city. The president

in

gated by gradual encroachments. It
was with this in mind that Voltaire
said “I do not agree with a word you
say but I will gat to the death for
your right to say it.’

The task before the American electorate in the present presidental election is indeed a perplexing one. The
mass of material, most of it coming
from biased sources, has obfuscated
rather than elucidated the principles
in issue. When one considers the fact
that the newspapers have taken one
side or the other in the coming election
so that the news emanates from sources
definitely biased one cannot help but
doubt the existence of the so called
freedom of the press. In making up
their minds we suggest that the American electorate might properly borrow
the judicial technique adopted by
judges when faced with a mass of
perplexing facts. The judges presume
that a certain set of facts exist and
throw the burden of disproving them
on the litigant disputing their existence and if at the end of the case the
matter is still in doubt the side in
whose favor the presumption was made
gets the benefit of the doubt. Thus
the American people when they consider
the fact that the leading industrialists,
bankers and moneyed classes are in
favor of Landon, should raise a prima
facie presumption that the Roosevelt
regime is for the interests of the people
as a whole.

 

 

In a series of articles appearing in
a local paper under the melodramatic
caption of “Land hungry Powers’
the learned author has attempted to
answer Germany’s demands for colonies
by pointing out that colonies are of
no economic benefit to their owners,
in this respect following the lead of
the British press and British conservatives. The answer of Germany to this

’

of the burough of Queens in New York! general British criticism was simple

refused to grant a license to hold a
public meeting to the Communist
organization. A negro Communist or- |
ganizer in Georgia was sentenced to
20 years imprisonment for ‘‘an attempt
to persuade or otherwise induce others
to join in any combined resistence to
the lawful authority of the state.”
A student of Columbia University
was expelled for Communist activities.

Whether the communists are right or
wrong, dangerous or not is completely
immaterial. The essential fact is that
here are certain groups setting themselves up as judges of what the public
should hear and what they should not
hear, of what people might speak and
on what matters they must not express
an opinion, This in itself is a serious
encroachment upon the freedom of
speech which like all precious tights
is extremely fragile and quickly abro
 

and to the point. They replied that
if colonies are of no economic benefit
then why are their owners so unwilling
to give them up? If they are of no
benefit to the powers that own them
what possible objection can there be
to ceding them to Germany? The
ingenious sophistry displayed by the
above-mentioned author in being extremely pro English and at the same
time tyying to appear unbiased will
doubtless stand him in good stead in
explaining away the reasonableness
of the German reply.

Flash —Miller (the Champ) wanted
Marian to let him stay a “Little” later
than 12.15,

 

 

Flash —Helen Holman’s theme song
“I’ve got those happy feet’’.

 

ee IE Oe se,

WHERE THE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE
ne

Compare Our Quality
Compare Oar Prices

Compare Our Service

pyr

fil

it?

And then you will know just why Dalhousie Men

Prefer to buy at SHANE’S.

We offer you the best and finest in clothing and furnish
ings, distinctively styled by the foremost manufacturers of Canada and the British Isles.

We offer you the keenest and Peppiest new patterns

in Halifax.

Compare our prices with others

parison).

effected.

Deduct your students’
you will be agreeably surprised at the lar

(ours will stand comdiscount of 10%,

ge abies

 

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

a a

,
a,
’

 

 
a The Supreme Mute Court

er IN THE CASE OF
~ OLIVE PALM (Plaintiff) v. STELLA
CHILD, FRESHETTE (Defendant).
hy a ;

S = _  Wichkeke, J.: The facts in this case
"are briefly that the Plaintiff, a Sophette,
sued by the Defendant, a Freshette,
for libel and slander on the greunds
. that the Defendant gave a charwoman
~ (colored) a hat which was identical
with one owned and formerly worn

by the Plaintiff.
Nh me On first ¢onsidering the facts of this
i, i ease I couldn't see that the Plaintiff
Ree “i “had suffered any injury to her pride
just because a charwoman had been
fortunate enough in being .presented
with a hat which exactly resembled
“the Plaintiff's, even though the hat
<a ‘might be the latest fashion and cost
3 =~ considerable money. However, I con— sulted a lady law student about the
- matter and she said she considered this
ee. a very serious offence and that no
+s” ‘two women in the same town can
decently wear hats that are exactly
alike, and certainly not if one happens
is to be a colored charlady and the other
a a young college lady. I told her that
Be that was a lot of feminine nonsense
ee: and. that some of the college boys
re sported derbies which look just like
= some I've seen gentlemen on the
_ garbage wagons wearing. She insisted,
otal that women thought differ: Batty: about such matters of attire
nd reminded me that in most cases
paid. for. the hats” women wore,
they raion it or not, and if I
ares Pater
teak wome men ‘had justice in
ases- since | it would be utterly

Peasy

=

bk a

el
' yaad
Po

m my fellow. man I}

The Plaintiff demands $10.00 fora
new hat and $100.00 for injury to her
sense of dignity. These demands are
out of proportion. If she paid ten
dollars for a hat that looks like that
she has no sense of dignity or any
other kind to injure and is lucky in
having an excuse not to wear it. |
therefore award the Plaintiff $1.00
for a new hat and fifty cents for her
wounded pride.

Knock! Knock!!

The Montreal Herald in

issue opines:—

‘‘Among the minor tragedies of this
changing age is the flight of the nightshirt, that inelegant frock or smock
which was the Orphic robe of countless
generations of our forbears.”

It goes on to say that at least a
certain Doctor in Ottawa considers
it a minor tragedy, and he is now
leader in a great nightshirt  revival movement. The nightshirt is
at present, so-he believes, on the verge
of extinction, and that, think friends
of the movement, is a certain sign of
extinction.

The Herald continues: ‘‘Pyjamas he
scorns. They denote, he claims, a
woeful sign of feminine influence on
male fashions. Soa great international
“Nightshirt Club” has been organized

a recent

and branches already exist in Ottawa

and New York. /
Historic researches conducted by

this Club have disclosed evidence that
some of the greatest men in history
j}from Nero to Napoleon,

and from

| Gladstone to Lincoln wore nightshirts

ae Ww sat Ae ee again, so of eouires she

c- . would have to purchase a new one.
re Ps ‘The next point to be considered is
of _ whether this is a case Of libel or slander,
or either or both. Now in both cases
E ! the Plaintiff must show that she was
og made an object of hatred, contempt,
or ridicule by means of some act or
words. of the Defendant. In slander
a it is merely a spoken insult, while
ra. ES ‘libel i is an insult by means of a writing,
or picture or some other permanent
x. ce form. Since hats cost money and
money talks and actions speak louder
-__ than words, I think this amounts to a
: case of slander rather than libel. It
might, however, be argued that since
the charwoman was black and the
‘*Plaintiff white that we would than
— have it in black and white, making it a
libel.
aC The next question is, did the Defendants act make the Plaintiff an object
of ridicule. The test is, would a
reasonable man consider the Plaintiff
oS e ridiculous for having a hat like that of
"a charwoman’s. But in such a case
_ as this no man would notice such a
: 4 thing, and since there is no such thing
as a reasonable woman we cannot have
any sure test in a case like this. However, I saw the hat and it seems to
me that anyone would look ridiculous
in it, whether a charwoman wore it
or not. It was black and from the
distance it looked liked a mortar board,
but when. you looked at it closer from
the side, it looked like a fence on the
> side of a hill and it had a feather in
, er the back which suggested to me what
a palm tree would look like if it was
struck ~=with a blizzard. When the
Plaintiff had it on it looked like a
big black hen sitting on a fence post.
(I am not insinuating that the Plaintiff's
head looks like a fence post since fence
posts have no hair). ;
Since the Defendant. is a Freshette—
I don’t know why they call them
- freshettes, since they come in the
_ Fall, while freshets usually come in the
Be Soriect Maybe its because they babble
Fe much that they remind one of a
x brook in flood—and the Plaintiff is
an upperclass: woman, it might give
. Frosh an unnecessary superiority
‘ omplex to give judgment for the
dant, and that, of course, can

e tolerated on the campus.

ers

while Louis XV thought so much of
the nightshirt that he had three nobles
to assist him with it every night—
one to warm it, another to hand it to
him, and another to put it on.

The Nightshirt Club is reinforcing
historic facts like these with arguments
as to the greater comfort of the night
shirt. It never executes snake-like
twists around the legs like pyjamas,
they say, nor is there any drawing
string around the middle to plague
the restless sleeper.

They do admit that the nightshirt,
in design, has not kept pace with
modern ideas.

The ideal design has not yet been
évolved—probably never will. Whether it can ever be made shapely and
natty is a question, but the nightshirt
devotees do not despair.

Nothing they claim, is impossible,
not even a streamlined nightshirt.”’

With all due deference to this no
doubt worthy movement in our opinion
the learned doctor is fighting a lost
cause. No one doubts for a moment
the serious intent in the minds of the
leaders in this battle, but the objects
of the Club are too idealistic and
impracticable at the present time.

The Montreal Herald suggests that
perhaps the Literary Digest could
be persuaded to hold a poll on this
question when the other important
questions are decided. It would be
interesting to see the result of a poll
on this question taken among the
students of the Forrest Building, who
pride themselves so much on being
free thinkers.

The Mouthpiece

(Continued from page 2)

sions will finally bring about a better
understanding of both, and _ better
care of the patient.

Sincerely,

Anonymous.

Editor’s Note: The Gazette is interested in more material of this type
which not only benefits the student
body as a whole but also lays a foundation for greater achievements for
both the medical and dental professions,

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Pertinent Patter

So deterioration has set in. It is
rumoured, however true it be, that
the male of the species has fallen on
evil days. No longer may he take
off his coat in the library. No indeed! He must be forever on display
as a symbol of neatness and correct
attire lest a casual visitor be tempted
into that hall of knowledge and be
shocked at the somewhat untidy
picture of a man at work. Let the
temperature rise ever so high, let the
janitor ply even more heat, let someone close every newly-opened window,
yet must he maintain a stern, if somewhat sweaty, propriety, and try to
exhibit some creditable show of concentration on the work at hand. Has/|
it really come to this, that the male
may no longer depend on these ‘‘outward forms to win the passion and
the life, whose fountains are within?’’

From all rumours we ought to have
a top notch hockey team this year.
Every new man seems to have been
a whiz in some position or other out
in the part of the country he comes
from. Time will tell.

How many college students live
in a world of illusion? College students have a small world of their own
which they should manage to know
wisely but not too well. After a few
brief years students are sometimes
amazed on graduation to find that
the external world has been existing
all the while, absorbed in affairs of
entirely oblivious of their
existence. Often, when the _ illusion
of reality is most complete, some
external force propels itself into one’s
consciousness and the awful realization dawns that the rumours of war
are not such stuff as dreams are made
of. A college whose professors thus
endeavor to keep our undergraduate
noses somewhat to the grindstone
of existence by periodic interjections
has much of which to be proud. Apropos of this, the fascinating lecture
given recently by Captain Scott might
be mentioned—one of the first on
this. year’s list of stimulating personalities to visit Dalhousie.

its own,

One watches with interest to see
‘if the performance of other years is
repeated. What performance? Well,
Shirreff Hallers, before you ask a man
to the dance, stop a moment to recollect
how long he has been taking you out.

(Continued oa page 4.)

CAPITOL

TODAY
FOR AN ENTIRE WEEK

“THE GREAT
ZIEGFELD”
Starring
William POWELL
Myrna LOY
Luise RAINER

When You Need
DRUGS

 

MEDICINES

College Cuts

Thought of the Week—
It’s usually the low brows that get
plucked.

I draw the line at kissing,
She said in accents fine,
But he’s a football hero,
And so he crossed the line.
—U. of Western Ont. Gazette.

Peace Peace —When There Is No
Peace.

In the humour column of the Gazette,
Oct., 1914, we find the following
quotations from Harper's Weekly:

“Greatly to my _ regret.’—Francis
Joseph,

“In spite of our intense desire for
friendly relations’’.—Peter.

“In the midst of perfect peace the
enemy surprises us. Forward with
God.” — William.

“Little as we are inclined to do so,
we are forced,”"—George.

“Strong in our desire for a peaceful
solution.”’— Poincare.

“Our menaced nation shudders and
its children have bounded to the
frontier.""—A/bert.

“It is with profound regret that we,
in spite of our ardent devotion to the
cause of peace are thus compelled.’’—
Emperor of Japan.

From the Gazette—1886.

“The new building will be fully
equal, if not superior to anything
in Ganada.: -... and vastly in advance
of anything of the kind in the lower
provinces.’’—President Forrest ——(Yes
the Forrest Building).

“Coeds at Iowa State Teachers
College take courses in the fundamentals of carpentry.’’—Is it as useful
as our physical training course for
teachers?

“Dating Causes Spread of Colds’’—
headline in the Daily Kansan. ‘‘Why?'

“Belgian draft horses of the milk
wagon variety belonging to the University of Oklahoma recently won
sixteen blue ribbons at the Oklahoma
City Fair.”

Rah! Rah! Varsity! !

*

College bred does not mean a four
year loaf.

(Continued on page 4)

THREE ESS
TAXI SERVICE

SERVICE —
SAFETY
SATISFACTION

Courteous Drivers -- Calls
Answered Promptly

Cor. Sackville and Granville Sts,

B 6123 B 6124
B 9614

—Give Us A Call—

PRESCRIPTIONS.

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

You get better

at

SERVICE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

VALUE

and

Table Tennis
Outfits

PHINNEY’S fall stock of Sporting Goods includes a good variety
of Table Tennis Outfits priced

from

60c to $4.50,

Select Yours To-day.

456-460 Barrington St.

Page Three

Well and
Firmly Made

yay
NL 7.1G

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.-Lancet

Insist on getting

THOMAS WALLAGE

SONS and DAUGHTERS Donovan’s Beverages

including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“If You Want to See Well See
Wallace”’

15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St.

MUSIC - HOME ECON OMICS

Classes for University students—
Appreciation of Music—Popular Class—H. Louise Burchell, A. M.,
(Rad.), B. Mus. (Oxon.), Head of Department.

Voice Training for Singing or Public Speaking—Percy Snowden,
Edinburgh and London, Head of Department.

Orchestra, Violin—Ifan Williams, A. R. A. M., Head of Dept.

Piano—Elsie Taylor, Royal Conservatory, Leipsig, Head of Dept.
Practice Rooms available.

Home Economics—Ruth Binnie, London, England, Head of Dept.

Halifax Ladies’ College & Conservatory of Music

Tel.—B 6524.

STUDENT’S
SPECIAL
MEMBERSHIP

$5.00

Swimming pool open daily 10 a.m. to 10.30 p.m.

See DOUG CREASE
Phone B 5737

Low Sunday Rates On
Out-of-Town Telephone Calls

On Sundays you may make Long Distance
calls at the same reduced rates that apply
every evening after 7 p. m. The reduction
applies on both Station-to-Station and Personto-Person service.

STATION-TO-STATION rates are the lowest obtainable. Use this service when you are
willing to talk to ‘‘anyone’’ who answers or
may be called to the distant telephone.

PERSON-TO-PERSON service should be
used when you must talk with a particular
person and no one else will do.

For information about telephone toll
rates, please call your Long Distance operator.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

COMPANY, LTD.

 
  

_ high at Dalhousie.

 

 
  
  
 
 
    
 

over hockey followers are beginning

mouth A. O. H. team, champions of

-jastic about its chances and from all

6 prentsialy shown themselves worthy of

oe San notice-board for. further

_ play.

_MaeDougall,

 

With 76 halt season not yet

parations for a season that seems
i to set the ice sport on a new
An Independent
Commercial League meeting was held
earlier in the week at which nothing
definite was arranged, but it seems
certain that this year’s circuit will
include more teams and thus increase
interest over last year. To date
besides Dalhousie, Blue Sunocos and
Wanderers have signified their intention to enter teamis again, with Farmers
still undecided. The first addition
comes in the personnel of the Dart
last year’s Greater Dartmouth League

Steadily gathering confidence as the
schedule progresses ‘the football team
seems about ready to go to town.
Members of the team are most enthus
appearances both on and off the field
the Tigers chances of annexing the
City League title seem excellent.
The morale of the team has been going
up by leaps and bounds, and with it
the calibre of their play. Strangely
enough, in view of their disdain for
the gold and black, Wanderers supporters now want even money in sharp
contrast with the large odds they
formerly offered. With the Cubs in
even a much more favorable position
than the first team, unless they get
careless, through. overconfidence we're
picking the Tigers to ‘come through
and win the Senior circuit from the
Redmen and the Cubs to take the
Intermediate title which they seem
headed for at the present moment.
The Seniors, if their protest of last
Saturday’s game fails, must win against
Wanderers tomorrow and against
Acadia “next Saturday to tie up the
leadership with Wanderers. Arrangements are being made to have a special!
train for the Acadia game next week
so that everybody will have a chance
to support the team. The Tigers have

' your support so don’t let them down.
- Remember tomorrow at Studley and
next Saturday at Wolfville. Watch
infor
    
   
     

    

, re ns al lla
(Continued from page 1)

Das following up a dribble and falling
on it to make the final score 12-6
This win puts the Cubs at the head of
their section with two games left to
Lipton and Hanway highlighted
the Cub’s performance, while Mont and
Scott were outstanding for the Wanderers.

The line-ups:

Dalhousie—Laidlaw, fullback; Hanway, Mitchell, Fennel, Koretsky, t hree
quarters; Lipton, Chernin, Cameron,
halves; Rogers, Hodgson, Murray,
Mushkat, McRae, McGregor, Rankin
forwards.

Wanderers — Dickinson, fullback
Hare, Cotter, Fudge, Mattars, threequarters; Mont, Scott, Martin, halves;
Keating, Lloyd, Wall
Mahoney, Beaton, Nickerson, forwards.

Pertinent Patter
(Continued from Page 8)

If only since sorority rushing week
finished, then ask the old reliable.

Sorry we didn’t see you at the game
on Saturday, but we hardly blame you.
After all it is quite a bit to expect
one to sit in the driving rain with
no protection and quietly catch
pneumonia for dear old Dal. It’sa
bit too bad that the weather man
has shown himself to be so hostile to
football this year.

  
 
  
 
  

  
  
 
 

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 

made by the well known

let us quote prices.

| PORTLAND ST.
DARTMOUTH

Congrats

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

. | student
students present at last, week’s, game| Mike shouted loudly for more of that

  
 
    
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
  

**“Reach”’

For the best in Badminton Rackets

We have a complete stock of badminton supplies
Ditson for whom we are agents.

Comparison with other lines invited. Come in and

MacDonald Hardware Co. Ltd.

Tradition was upheld as common

sense went by the boards last Saturday

when the Dal Tigers went down to a

rather muddy defeat at the hands of

the Wanderers. Just why the game
was played in the driving rain is more
than we can understand. Apparently
it is traditional to go through with

city league games regardless of weather
conditions and so the show-went on.

But by the appearance of the Dal
stands we gather that the average
student has gone soft or he has been
endowed with a quantity of common
sense which his elders do not credit him
with.

It has always been a cry at Dalhousie
that the faculty show no interest in
activity. Nevertheless those

sure will never made this
accusation. Congratulations to President Stanley and Prof Murray MacNeil for a display of college spirit
which students claimed dead years ago.
Congratulations to the two sororities
on the Dalhousie Campus for the
systematic and impersonal rushing
methods they used in the past week.
In the last issue of the Gazette a certain
columnist spoke of the activities of
the mewing cats. To him we say
remarks of an uncomplimentary nature
in connection with sororities are not
justified. Whereas the fraternity rushing system lacks any definite program
whatsoever the girls have their rushing
system developed to a high degree of
perfection and deserve credit for the
way they conduct their affairs. Fraternities might well profit by their example.
Are you aware that the Sophmore
Initiation Committee profited to the
extent of $37.01 at the expense of this
year’s Freshman Class? We have often
heard’ how the yearlings have been
sold seats in the Library and other
such privileges by unscrupulous upperclassmen but this act on the part of
the Sophmore Class is the biggest
financial swindle in the history of the
university. It has been said that
President Wallace Wright has been
the target of too much criticism from
the Gazette yet with actions such as
this he deserves all he has received
and we haven't stopped yet.
—-—o

‘Inter-Faculty

(Continued from page 1)

we feel

 

repeated and it was easily converted
making the final score 8-0. Chernin
was outstanding for the winners,
while Fennell was the pick of the Frosh.

——

College Cuts

(Continued from page 3.)

And We Kick at a Quarter
“Syracuse students may obtain tickets for the Cornell-Syracuse game at
half-price, $1.65, by exchanging the

 

slip in their passbook at the Athletic

office.
Cleveland: Arthur Born, freshman
engineer at Fenn College bought a

green Packard '28 roadster, junked the
engine, and installed a steam engine
in its place. He uses fuel oil—6 cents
a gallon—to generate his steam and
blissfully rolls over the roads for 21.9
miles per gallon. The steam chariot
cost about a hundred dollars to build.

“Experiments are now being made
with tinned onions.’’-—Can that sob
stuff — Western Ga:ette.

Go to the Ant, Thou Sluggard

 

 

The ant has made himself illustrious
Through constant industry industrious.
“0 what- would you be calm and placid
If you were full of formic acid?

— Western Gazette,

firm of Reach, Wright &

SPRING GARDEN RD.
HALIFAX, N. S.

foolishness,

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Critics| The Problem of Crime

(Continued from page 2)

suggestible to evil (a criminal “in
potentia’), Dr. Young has disproved
Lombroso’s beliefs by proving that
many of the prisoners in our major
pentitentiaries are very nearly ‘‘goodlooking’, We must admit, however,
that some of the greatest criminals
looked tough enough. Here is the
story of Mike Malloy who surely was
no weakling:

“Mike was a bum with a bum’s
tenacious hold on life. Now, the
proprietor of a bar-room where Mike
caged drinks, conceived the idea of
insuring Mike’s life for six hundred
dollars, and then bumping him off.
He began by pumping Mike full of
bad alcohol, free. Instead of dying

 

  
  
   
 
    
 
  
    

BIRKS

“good old stuff’’., Next they served DALHOUSIE RINGS—

him some oysters pickled in formaldehyde; Mike ate with a relish and
blessed the hand that fed him. Then
they ground up a sardine can, sprinkled
it on the sardines and offered Mike
the tinny salad—Mike by this time
was beginning to grow fat; he ate the
salad and wept with gratitude. Desperate now, they got him drunk on
wood-aleohol, soaked him in a tub of
water and threw him out on a freezing
night to die, Just to make sure,
a taxi driver drove over him twice;
but next morning Mike arose from a
nearby gutter with not even a sniffle.
Resolved to have no more of this
the conspirators thrust
a gas pipe into his mouth and held it
there until Mike finally dead.

Today we regard criminals as made
not born. Psychological study has
shown that the infant, at birth, is a
bundle of potentalities. Much depends .upon environment. Only recently have we recognized crime as a
very complex and acute problem,
Study has shown that the following
are the main causes of crime: family
demoralization lack of home
training; a conflict of standards between parents and children; lack of
religious and moral training; bad
neighborhood conditions; lack of recreational outlets; physical defects and
maladjustments; social inability and
poverty. Today we consider both
crime and criminal and keep in mind
multiple causation rather than a single
factor.

What the future holds we rarely
know. Crime will continue as a
great problem until we have a more
complete knowledge of causation. It
will disappear when its causes are no
more. The solution of the problem
demands people trained in Sociology
and Law. Yet due to our present
economic situation, the young man
will do well to consider his probable
ability as a lawyer. There is room
only for the good ones and as Brovardel
says, “If the Law has. made you a
witness, remain a man of Science.
You have no victim to avenge, no
guilty or innocent person to ruin or
save you. You must bear witness
within the limits of Science.”

In Stock Birks carry Dalhousie University rings official designs in both silver
and gold.

Special jewellery for classes
and college societies made to
order.

Ask for designs and prices.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

  

was

and

GIVE US A RING

HALIFAX TAXI

COMFORT COURTESY
CONVENIENCE

B 7376 B 9644

SAVE THE UNUSED
MILEAGE IN YOUR
SHOES
Phone

The Capitol Shoe Repair
We Call and Deliver

 

oe.

One night recently one of the better
known younger members of Phi Delta
Theta left a note on his door for his
room-mate who had gone to the movies.
This bore the legend: “If I’m studying

44 SACKVILLE ST.
B8566

when you get back, wake me up.”

  
 
         
      

DALHOUSIE BOOK CLUB

Un the Gymnasium Building)

   

 

      
   
        
      

The ‘Club buys ALL the new books of general
interest, except in fiction, which deserve a place in a
university library, and which are not already in the
university library.

      
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
 
    
  
  
    
    

Any member of the university and any resident
of Halifax or Dartmouth may become a member of the

Club.

 

The fee is $5.00 per annum, and there is no further
charge.

  
    
 

One or two books may be taken out, and kept out |f
for two weeks.

 
   
 

There is a very special fee for undergraduate
students—$1.00 per annum.

Last year the Club purchased over 500 volumes.
POaseee the membership the eer the selection of
ooks.

  
   

  

More flavour
—yet milder

Bucking.

CIGARETTES

 

EMPIRE SHOE REBUILDERS

430 BARRINGTON STREET.

 

 

October 30th, 1986

  
 
  

B74-36

 

 

CASINO ||

Saturday—Mon.—Tuesday

“BENGAL
TIGER”

with
BARTON MacLANE
JUNE TRAVIS
WARREN HULL

DRUGS

 

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

 

4 SHORTS 4

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

SING SONG
every TUESDAY NIGHT at 9

 

Wallace Bros.

takes pride in presenting the
New Fall Shoes for Men and

Women.

HALF SOLES 60c.
RUBBER HEELS 25c.
FULL SYLES 1.25.

All Materials and Work
manshi .
ip guaranteed Popularly Priced

Smartest Styles

WE CALL AND
DELIVER

Expert Fitting

Wallace Bros. Ltd.

454 Barrington St.

 

 

Patronize Our Advertisers

 

‘CRITICAL MOM E NTS”

a cae

Kee

  

<i x

 
      

WHEN YOU ARE"
SUBSTITUTE

PLAYER ON THE
RUGBY TEAM 
   
 

Te

4)

-AND YOUVE JUST HEARD THAT THE
PLAYER YOU ARE CALLED UPON
TO REPLACE HAS BEEN CARRIED OFF
WITH A SPRAINED KNEE, A CRACKED
RIB ANDA FACE FULL OF MUD 
DONT WORRY
EAT AND

CHEER UP wity

 

 
