  

Hockey
Dal vs.

Sunocos

Tues. 9 P. M.

 
   
   
   
 

 

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 22nd, 1937

VOL. LXVII. No. 12

   

 

 

 

PROTESTS VOICED AT CONSTITUTION FORUM

 

 

 

 

  

Enthusiasm Seen When

ie Where’s The King?
ee, Constitution Adopted

q Lee Te en, Here’s The Queen, Productions Underway

  

A large crowd of fully sixty-four
enthusiastic students braved the elements yesterday noon to attend the
most important council forum held
in many years. Held in the Chemistry
Theatre under the guidance of President Gordon Lea, the meeting was
called to permit criticism of the new

Nike constitution drawn up by the Council
of Students.
The articles in the proposed constitution which received most com~ ment were those allowing council
appointment of the Freshman Representative, and providing for student
election on council nomination of
council president and _ vice-president.
The outstanding upholders of so-called
true democracy were Geo. Robertson,
Henry Hicks, Elwyn Hughes, and
Art Ormiston. Geo. Robertson also
(apparently contemplating misconducting himself off the campus) protested
against council jurisdiction over student conduct on and off the campus.
After the various inquiries had
been satisfied the assembly unani- mously approved the new constitution.
_ The majority present congratulated
the council on its initiative in making

      
   
 

we the. paieively small powers of the
ze meeting indicated autocratic rule on the
campus

The Studley Story

The Winnah

 

; The Boilermakers Ball was decidedly
a success, the nearest ‘to perfection
of any dance that we've attended
around Dalhousie. The cabaret idea
more than counterbalanced the fact
that it took away dancing space, by
adding greatly to the general comfort.
And, for a change, the floorshow was
worth watching.

In our opinion, the Engineers have
settled for all time the gym vs. hotel
dance question. With all credit to
the Commerce committee who put
on by far the best gym dance to date,
the results which they accomplished
were far surpassed by their rivals.

i - Once again the axiom that a good big
q man can always beat a good little
man has been proved—the ‘‘bigness”’
in this case being the combination
of superior atmosphere and improved
) facilities.

Theatrical Threat

The newly-formed Little Theatre
, group is taking a venturesome step
in offering ‘‘Hay Fever” as their
2 first presentation. The experienced

Theatre Arts Guild put on the same
ys play very successfully, just before
Christmas. The announced intentions
of our ambitious Dal dramatics seem
to be an unofficial challenge to their
austere elders.

The play itself is a typical Coward
comedy, interesting, light, and cleverly
absurd. It carries itself along to a
great extent, but intelligent direction
and acting can add much to its humour.
It will be interesting to note the
results of the first attempt of our
promising group.

—— ---——-Q- - -- |

_ “I see by the gas gauge that you
_ didn't get far last night,” said the in- dulgent father.
“Well, I’m not complaining,”
hag sonny's reply.

 

was

 

SSS

Splendid Issue

The January issue of “The Dalhousie Review’’ has just come off the
press and, as usual, presents a large
variety of interesting articles by men
of note from all over the continent
Of special interest, perhaps, to Dalhousians will be ‘‘The Crisis of Democracy” by B. K. Sandwell of the “Saturday Night’’, this article being a reprint
of the same address delivered by him
last December as one of the lectures
sponsored by the newly formed Institute of Public Affairs. D. C. Harvey G. H. Murphy and Margaret
Ells, all associated with Dalhousie,
either in the Medical faculty, or at
the Archives, each have published a
very interesting article. Harvey’s essay on Judge Haliburton and _ his
famous creation Sam Slick is especially
appropriate because this year is approximately the hundredth anniversary
of the introduction of this celebrated
figure to an amazed world. Margaret
Ells’ article entitled ‘‘Nova Scotia,
Sparks of Liberty’, as the title suggests
deals with some of the earlier signs
of democratic liberalism in Nova
Scotia at the turn of the nineteenth
century. Dr. Murphy’s ‘In Search
of Economics” contains a very clear
comparison of the world system and
the human body.

This issue of ‘‘The Dalhousie Review’ contains also leading article
by C. R. Woodruff, A. S. Bourinot
L. Moulton and several other people of
importance. Of course, ‘‘Topics of
the Day’, that very popular section,
contains an article on the recent British
Constitutional Crisis, in which one
of the most sensible stands we have
yet read is taken. The problem is
stated simply, yet without loss of
detail.. The article is a tribute to the
clear thinking of the man who conceived There is also an excellent
exposition of the Democratic Roosevelt
landslide in the United States, treating
in turn with the Election itself, with
the effect it will have on the Republicay
and Democratic parties and, finally
with what is expected of Roosevelt
himself. In the same section there

There is another very interesting
section in ‘‘The Dalhousie Review’’—
that which treats with articles selected
from current magazines. This quarter
the subject was “Back to Barbarisms.”’

The final section,
magazines, consists of a review of
recent books. Perhaps among the
more interesting books reviewed this
month are “Social Planning for Canada” by the Research Committee of
the League for Social Reconstruction.
“Planning Under Socialism” by Sir
William Beveridge and ‘General
Grant’s Last Stand” by Horace Green.

as in all good

LECTURER COMING

Those who heard Dr. T. Z.
Koo speak at Dalhousie last
year will be pleased to learn
that the S. C. M. is bringing

another outstanding speaker,

in the person of Dr. Howard
Thurman, to the campus. Koo
is a Chinese: Thurman is a
Negro, the son of a slave. This
educationalist, author, and
poet of distinction will speak
in the Gymnasium on Sunday
afternoon, Jan. 31st.

 

 

 

A Staff Artist's Conception of the result of the Year Book’s
Popularity Contest.

Pros and Cons of Contest

| Down With The

THE VACILLATING VOTER |

Year Book

Dear Gazette:

So! it has come at last! that which
has been staved off so long! Are we
to become a cheap, small town edition
of a Yankee college? Are all the
efforts of the past to be blown to dust
Year Book editor?

I’ve taken so many beauties out

I just can’t choose for whom to vote;
I’ve had them dark and had them fair
And one or two with reddish hair.
Now Peg is short and cute and small
And Beth is slim and rather tall,

Marie has eyes of deepest blue,
Nancy’s are of a brownish hue.

That Venus had charms none deny—

by our eccentric
a ’ ° > oo Ae Vo . .
But Anne's figure can pass her's by Have we no say in the matter? I ask
And Doris, ml her tennis shorts, you—are we going to stand for it?
lakes eyes from all the other courts. No! decidedly no.
There's Annabel with dancing feet The student body is aroused en
And Pat with clothes so smart and neat | masse against it. No one is for it—
. . : | aS irlc ar > ~ " e .
The charms of al! these girls are such we take ante éo vote. Our. editar
Phat I am troubled very much— will find himself on a spot, a spot
l'o choose a queen among the lot which no doubt he desires. Are we
> - ‘ ’ 1c a . Puts me upon a toughish spot to play into his hands? A Populacity
Should one of them by chance discover] Contest! Cheap, vulgar and what

That I had voted for another,
The news would spread and I'd be

have you?

Is this the man we want to edit our
Year Book? Are we to pay
bucks for such a rag? No wonder
Students’ Council said—thumbs down!
How they must be laughing up their
sleeves at such a stupid lot. They
have the laugh—they told us so.

We still have weapon without
creating a civil war on the campus

scorned

By all those other girls, who mourned
Because I’d voted not for them,

But for some other pretty “fem”
Thumbs down from all feminity
Would make it very hard on me

Then only one girl would remain
Whose actions toward me would be

two

a

SARC, We must use this weapon with a
When all the rest had put me out, deadly aim. Show this “Simp-son”
She for whom I had cast my vote of an editor where he gets off. He

So boys, ’ere you go to the poll,
Remember fate may take its toll.

maybe, but this has
He is to run our Year
Book, so it seems. The king can do
no wrong. But, is that so? One
king was canned and he was popular.
Our golden editor king is about to
find out his position will be lost by
trying to crown a queen, which students
will not have. History repeats itself.
Our weapon is—don’t vote.

has popularity
gone too far.

In Defense of the Yanks

Dear Gazette:

We've heard . faint that
some people are kicking up quite a
fuss over the ‘Americanism’ of the
Year Book popularity contest. Mavybe it is a copy of an American college
stunt. So what? Around here it’s
a novel, bright idea that is creating
considerable interest; and that’s what
we want.

Anyhow, why this shrinking aversion
to anything connected with American
universities. There is a great deal
of good in some of their ideas that we
would do well to follow. They are
constantly experimenting, striving for
the original—missing on occasion, but
sometimes hitting the mark very
squarely. One thing that they could
teach us is college spirit. Even though
their enthusiasm may be of the rahrah type, at least it is enthusiasm.

Yours sincerely,
STUDLEY STORY.

rumour

 

Is Degenerate?

| The human race is degenerating
was the general decision reached by
the Effective Speaking Club at a
meeting held Wednesday night in the
Munro Room. Physically mankind
is definitely inferior to the cave-man;
mentally man is on the up-grade;
and morally he is possibly holding
his own against the forces of degeneration.

Reg Ash was the capable chairman
s the evening and about a dozen

members were present. The next meet
 

i
| used.

 

ing of the club will be held next Tuesday.

Prominent Speaker

On Friday night the Public Administration course at Dalhousie will bring
another eminent speaker to this Uni
versity. in the person of Professor
Corbett, formerly of McGill. Professor Corbett will speak on ‘‘Canada’s
Foreign Policy’? in the gymnasium,
at 8.15 o’clock. He will be the third
speaker .who has been brought to
Dalhousie under the new course so
far, the other two having been here
during the pre-Christmas term, of

whom G. K. Sandwell was the latter.

Dean Corbett, who received his unversity education at McGill and Oxford, is an assistant legal advisor to

the International Labor Office in
Geneva, and is the author of several
books among which is “Canada and
World Politics’. His reputation
one of the foremost Canadian authorities on Canada and her relation to
the world has preceded him throughout the Dominion and many students,
and others, are eagerly awaiting the
opportunity to hear the interpretation
of this speaker on so pertinent a topic.

as

 

Asks Support

The attention of the students is
called to the special notices posted
about the University buildings. An

effort is being made to discover whether
a fair proportion of the student hody

would be interested in getting for
student use a phonograph and an
extensive library of recorded music.

The Carnegie Corporation has endowvaluable gifts of the nature
universities— Dalhousie

ed very
in many

could have one if there were sufficient

too

| evidence that the gift would be properly

Students interested in such an
acquisition to
their support by
The existence of a musical
society at Dalhousie add great
weight to the University request to the
Carnegie Corporation.

Dalhousie should
signing the

an
signify

notices.
may

 

Freshettes Meet

Last Saturday meeting of
Freshettes was held in the Gazette
Office to discuss the question of first
year contributions to the Dal Gazette.
Over fifteen were present and an active
interest was shown by all.

Requests for contributions embracing
all subjects were made, Peggy
Merkel was appointed Freshette Representative. The ‘‘Dalhousie Queen”
question was gone into, and the unanimous opinion of the meeting was one
of strong disapproval. Various assignments were definitely given to 4 news
reporters, 2 social reporters, 2 literary
art and out-of-town

a the

and

writers and an
representative.

The Freshettes are showing great

interest in the Gazette. Are the
Freshmen going to do their share?
SS

“The majestic equality of the law
forbids the rich as well as the poor to
sleep under the bridges or to beg on the
street corners.” But it has turned
out on trial that the vested interests of
business are not seriously hampered
by these restrictions.—Veblen.

  
  
 
 
    
 

 

F or Drama Shield

An increased interest in dramatics
at Dalhousie is reflected in the fact
that there are this year six contestants
for the Dramatic Shield. This shield
has been donated by an old Glee
Clubber and an outstanding disciple
of the art, Mr. J. P. Connolly and is
awarded annually for the best one
act play presented at the University.

On Wednesday, Jan. 27, the first
three of these plays will be presented—
Delta Gamma’s “Sardines” under the
direction of Muriel Woodbury,
Dental Society’s ‘“‘Thunder on
Right”, directed by Phil Stein, and
‘The Ghost of Jerry Bundler’’ presented for Pine Hill by Geoffrey Marshall.
The second set of three plays will be
presented on February 5th by Sigma
Chi, Education, and the Newman
Club. A picked adjucator will award
the shield to the best of these six
and from the reports heard, this will
be no easy task as a high standard
of excellence is expected throughout.

Near the middle of February the
Glee Club is to present the first public
endeavor of the newly formed Dramatic
Society in the nature of a three act
play, rehearsais for which are already
under way.

For Munro Day—the peak of University celebrations—the Glee Club
is to join forces with the alumni and
produce a truly “Big Show’ the
nature of which will be disclosed later.

The Glee Club executive, therefore,
have outlined plans for an ambitious
it solely for
the students to cooperate and make
this a truly successful Glee Club Year.
So start the Glee Club term on Wed27th, at the Gym. Jerry
Naugler’s orchestra will play for the
dance after the plays.

Dal Costs Low

the
been

the
the

program and remains

nesday

 

Recently numerous colleges in
West and Upper Canada
trying to estimate the average co-ed’s
expenditure on beautifying herself
So one the Halifax newspapers
published an article concerning the
price of the pulchritude of Dalhousie
co-eds. The difference of expenditure
between the girls of the University of
British Columbia and Dalhousie is
astounding. It seems that the U. B.
C. girls spend the collosal average of
$6.70 per month for beauty tre

ments while the Dal girls spend the

have

of

amazingly low average of $2.70 per
month. It is doubtful as to just
how the U. B. C. co-eds estimated
their expenditures because it seems
impossible that there could be as
much as $4.00 per month difference
in the resulting beauty of the two

colleges.

NEWFOUNDLAND CLUB

The active new organization,
the Newfoundland Club, under
the presidency of Isaac Mercer,
will meet at 3.00 p. m. Sunday
in the Men’s Common Room of
the Arts’ Building to consider
and adopt a constitution already drafted. All residents,
past or present, of the Oldest
Colony are cordially invited to
attend. Professor G. S. Cowan
will be the speaker for the occasion.
_ Founded 1869. ‘The Oldest College Paper in America.”

Ge apd oF,

ate eign _ Editors.
ages Whe MacKEIGAN MAL.
Se. Ph. B-2436

J. D. CREASE, B.A.
Ph. B-5737

Associaies.
> Edward Arab, B.A.
P. S. Macnutt
Kaye Sircom
Elwyn O. Hughes

nee Wes 7 7 John Fisher :
a Edward S. MacLatchy, B.A.
_. Elizabeth Pearson —
Geo. H. Murphy, B.A. ~

ie — Be a: ROLAND HURST
4 PR Bessey 
Sports Editor.

ARCHIE B. MacKENZIE
Ph. B-3824
Associates.

Earle Fraser, B.A.
Arthur Merkel
Peggy Merkel

L. A. Landreville, B.A.

Roy Gold, B.Sc.
Jack Reynolds

Assisiant Business Manager.

R, L. ARMSTRONG B.A.
Phone B-5700

2 Business Manager.
- GORDON K. DALEY B. Com.
Rt Ph, B-5700
' Proof Editor
CHARLES A. ROBERTS

A,

r *

ACADEMIC FREEDOM AND THE FREEDOM OF THE

, We regret that the much appreciated address of the President

of the University at the luncheon last week for the Gazette staff

-was made the occasion of undignified comment by one of our
local papers. Dr. Stanley gave as his opinion that the Canadian

_ press had in some respects not kept pace with scientific development in presenting a dependable picture of vital news. He re
_ marked that “only two or three of the Canadian dailies presented

- an editorial page which set before the reader a complete picture

of the current topics of the day.”

- We believe that our Halifax papers compare favorably with
papers with much greater resources, and that, considering their
necessarily limited circulation, they must be numbered among
_ the leaders of the Canadian press. It is unfortunate that one of
_ these papers should lay itself open to the charge of protesting

too much, thus ignoring its own fine record of the past which

would justify it in considering itself one of the few selected for

commendation by our President. The best refutation of any

m is to continue to show by results that it is unwarranted.

nembers of the Fourth Estate pride themselves on the

a ress, and no less do universities idealize academic

nen may seem to stand on the side-lines

it very | sometimes enables them

ional life, which escape the more

participant. Such an opportunity places upon the man

gation to disclose their observations to the community. Pro
gress comes not through monastic seclusion, but through com
munication of reasoned judgments based upon apparent facts.

Both the University and the Press are under heavy social obligaEs tions with whose performance they should let nothing interfere.

~‘

os
Ore

fe ps
% ;

eer THE GAZETTE—THE D. A. A.C.

oe,

_ It has been the policy of the Gazette at all times to boost
. Dalhousie organizations and undoubtedly the D. A. A. C. has
derived more than its share through the medium of this paper.
______ Freedom of the press is the very life-blood of any paper—true it
_.-_¢an be abused for no one body is perfect—but to our know____ledge no such abuse has occurred. A constructive and impartial
___ policy in the realm of sport has been our aim and will remain so.
_ We have no intention whatsoever to cater to the D. A. A. C.
___but are only too glad to cooperate with them to boost Dalhousie
_ sports and in particular interfaculty sports (if such sports be
____¢arried out in the proper manner). The D. A. A.C. is without
_ doubt the most efficiently organized body on the campus and it
i? is making a sincere effort to encourage all athletic activities.
But one of the biggest jobs on the campus is the running of interfaculty sport and the interfaculty manager cannot do much unless
he has the whole-hearted support of all, from team manager to
_ players. At that his task would be considerably lightened if
, assistant managers of the various interfaculty sports were appointed under his leadership. It is to be hoped that the D. A. A. C.
will regard matters in their true light and if a situation should
arise where some form of censure is needed to right matters that
_ they will at once do so. |
Pig.” Cooperation all around is necessary and we pledge ourselves
_ to that effect insofar as definite remedial steps are taken when
required but no variation shall be made from our course of con- $tructive criticism if the case so warrants. The Gazette will
have a complete coverage on all college sport and present it to
its readers in a fair and unbiased form.

—_—

WHO WILL BELL THE CAT?
(Contributed)

_ Which of the mice on the campus will bell the cat? Who is

_ _-—s«going to put his neck in the noose by informing certain lecturers
Just what their students think of the system of dictation in classes?

_._-___. There are in the Faculty of Arts and Science some professors
who have the audacity in this enlightened age to dictate page

after page of notes, thinking they are thus discharging their duty

to youth sitting at their feet thirsting for knowledge. The notes

a often contain good material, and are often essential. But surely
, ae copies, of them could be mimeographed and distributed to the
“ae class, thus saving both student and teacher much time and effort.

eer In all fairness it must be admitted that only a few professors

Bor are guilty of the failing we attack, and that the great majority
appreciate the importance of discussion. Many of our Jecturers
| a _ are past masters in the Socratic art of keeping every student mentoe ah oe . ee eee te sree Is 3 fee a pity that the general
a" high. ard of teaching is lowere i
Bi ‘4 itators g is y a few whoare persistent
_.__-4ire-we men or mice?—Mice, we fear, and wise ones. We
know too well the fate of the bold one at examination time.

ce 2
it co
ata

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

‘COMMENT _

Mr. Bennett’s Empire Tour and

ada.

Several months ago,
Dalhousie’s most disguished alumnus, the
Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett, left this dominion for a tour of
the Empire. Newspapers have reported him as admiring
the great heritage
of the Empire and
particularly the strides that have been
made in our sister Dominions, New
Zealand, Australia and South Africa.
But it was only recently through
the marvel of radio that we were able
to hear his own voice ir a broadcast
from London. It was readily apparent that he was sincerely impressed
with the Empire and its loyalty to the
Crown. Descendants of the pioneers
who laid the foundations of the overseas dominions were ‘unchallenged in
occupancy of their lands and enjoyment of their heritage.” This was
largely due said Mr. Bennett to their
fellowship in the Empire family. He
expressed the hope that the Dominions
might share in a programme of immigration. It was his desire that the
surplus population of England should
find new homes in the Empire. His
argument was twofold—firstly, that
the Dominions needed greater populations, secondly, that it was the development of the Dominions that lessened the purchases from the British
Isles whose population needed some
outlet.

Mr. Bennett and Fears of War

No one will doubt the validity of
these contentions, nor deny a feeling of
pride in the British Empire. This
paper also believes in a controlled immigration at this period of the business
cycle. So much for that. The point
we do wish to emphasize is this, that
during these last few months since
the crisis in Spain there has developed
quietly in this country a more divided
feeling about War and_ particularly
our contribution as a member of the
Empire. The question whether or not
we should support England in any
war she might be involved in will very
likely be answered differently in different parts of Canada—one might
mention three main groups—the pro
British group, who would be willing
in any case; the French Canadian
group and the younger generation; and
thirdly, the alien class, that is to say,
those who have chosen Canada as their
home, This middle group are proud
of their British connection but it is not
an arrogant pride which would induce
participation in a war which Britan
might be involved. The alien group
do not seem particularly enthusiastic
about Empire deals. Remember also
two further and important facts, that
Europe seems to be divided into two
political camps—Fascism and Communisn—if there is a war and we all
hope not, England may reluctantly
find herself fighting a side that holds
some definite political philosophy and
secondly, that there is evidence of a
Fascist movement in French Quebec.
One may easily see then how participation by Canada in a war regardless
on which side may produce violent dissension in Canada.

Caution is Watchword

The danger is that just talk or mere
implication may be sufficient to fan
the flame of Canadian opinion into a
blaze that will not be quenched by
mere level headed thinking. Mr. Bennett fresh from his tour and imbued
with Empiré ideals will undoubtedly
give many speeches on the _ indivisibility of the Crown he found in these
Dominions. Such unconscious and
sincere remarks might be seized by
some power seeker to make political
material and thus either deliberately
or unconsciously precipitate a rift in
Canadian life and open dissention between the groups mentioned above.
The danger is mitigated by the fact
that Mr, Bennett is a keen observer of
public opinion and solely concerned
with service to his country not himself. Undoubtedly, before he speaks
he will be informed or may make inquiries of present day Canadian opinion, which it is our submission has
changed during these last few months.
The fashioning of a foreign policy in
any Democratic country is difficult,
but in Canada with its races and peculiar position it is all the more so.
Caution a,ainst harmful implications

‘must be the Watchword.

Book Review

“Gone With the Wind’’—A Novel
—by Margaret Mitchell. MacMillan,

$3.00.

Already I hear the snickers at my
first choice of book, but “Gone with
the Wind” really holds more universal
appeal than any other novel at the
present time, and therefore is directly
under the focus of student eyes. In
choosing this book I also am offered
the choice of saying what I think of the
pseudo-intellectuals, who, following the
custom of book advertisements, have
discovered an outlet for all the superlatives they hold in their vocabularies.
If there is anything I despise it is the
type of person who reads a book simply
because it may happen to be materiai
for ‘in between dances” conversation.

To begin with this discussion of
“Gone with the Wind” I shall first
state my views concerning the book
as a whole. At no time did I think
it was a great novel. It appeals to me
chiefly because it is undoubtedly a
superb piece of story-telling. Miss
Mitchell has done a remarkably good
piece of work, considering that it is a
first novel. But prophecies saying
that she is the coming authoress of the
generation, merely bore me. One
never can fully judge a person’s ability
on one work. She has, however,
struck a resounding note. For pure
readability, I find it hard to recall a
novel from which I have gained more
enjoyment.

Miss Mitchell’s ability, surprisingly,
does not envelop story telling, but she
can produce characters and make them
live for us. She not only makes them
live, she makes them grow for us.
Very few first novels dothat. Through
her characters we gain a clear view of
that phase of history surrounding the
plot. She describes no battle scenes
yet the American Civil War never was
presented so clearly; for the events
that occurred to Scarlett O’Hara and,
to Ashley Wilkes, to his wife Melanie
and to Rhett Butler, were merely
those events common to thousands of
others at that time.

Miss Mitchell’s greatest work in this
novel is undoubtedly the creation of
Scarlett O’Hara, a heroine peculiarly
lacking in all the prime virtues but
courage. Her vitality _is amazing,
awakening in the reader that same indomitable spirit which she inherited
from her Irish father. She was a complete rebel against the standards and
conventions of the ‘‘genteel’’ southern
folk with whom she was reared. But
she lives in my mind and will probably live in yours.

Almost equal in interest is the character of Rhett Butler. An unusual
thing about him is that he is the typical
villain of the melodrama (even to the
moustache) and yet he is alive and
quite unfictionlike. The conflict in
wills between these two hard-bitten
realists coupled with Scarlett’s interest
in Ashley Wilkes makes a rather interesting love story. .

The other two most important characters—Melanie and her husband Ashley Wilkes—are merely puppets in
setting the stage for scenes between
Scarlett and Rhett. Ashley the
man of honour, an idealist who becomes hopelessly lost after the eruption
of his south. His wife Melanie is in
direct contrast to Scarlett, the only
thing common between them being their
mutual great courage.

However, those four are only the
chief characters—characters completely drawn, while others are shown to
us in brief sketches, glimpses which.
do not show us a complete pictureMiss Mitchell’s style is not particularly distinguished but it at least satisfies, for through it her purpose of tell
ing a story is served well. She has
set herself a standard; now the ques’
tion arises ‘‘Is she a one-book novelist?’ We hope not, for we gained to much
enjoyment from the first, not to want
to enjoy the second.

1S

R. S. M.

———
Whom the gods love, die young.
How the gods must hate the old, old

men today.

the rancid old men that don't die
because the gods don’t want them
won't have them
leave them to stale on earth—D. H.
Lawrence.

Do You Know That?

Women were first admitted
to classes at Dalhousie in 1881?
It costs more than $350,000
a year to run the University?

———

January, 22nd, 1937

s

Students’ Council Meeting

The Council of Students or the
Constitutionalists as they have lately
been dubbed met Saturday afternoon
for the purpose of clearing up various
points in the new constitution in
anticipation of the Student body
meeting on Thursday.

The business dealt
follows:

President Gordon Lea first took
up the matter of the constitution of
the D. A. A. C. and attempted to
read the manuscript, in toto, much
to the anguish of the sleepy councillors

Next the Delta Gamma constitution
was proposed. Following which the
Gazette manuscript was taken up.
In the new constitution the Gazette
editors proposed that in future the
editors become ex officio members of
the Council without the power of vote.
This claim as set forth in their new
constitution was turned down.

The matter of Intercollegiate hockey
then came up for discussion. Mr.
Lea reported that the Finance Committee had granted the D. A. A. C.
the sum of $75.00 for this purpose.

Mr. Barton speaking on behalf of
Mr. Henry Reardon, Business Manager
of the Year Book reported that the
Lord Nelson Hotel had refused to
advertise in that publication. The
speaker suggested that through the
medium of the various societies and
fraternities a boycott be placed upon
the hostelry. Finally agreed to have
the Secretary write the Manager of the
establishment a letter asking him to
reconsider the matter.

Mr. Barnhill allegedly representing
the athletic element of Dalhousie
brought up the next item of business
which centred around the Dalhousie
Gazette.

The question of space devoted to
sport was the first item. This question
which arose at the last meeting finally
resolved itself to the problem of excess
advertising on the back page.

with was as

A satisfactory arrangement between
Business Manager, Gordon K. Daley
and Co-editors Doug Crease and Jan
MacKeigan was to have been made
during the week but the Gazette
appeared and as usual had the back
page half devoted to advertisements.

When questioned upon the matter
the News editor of the Gazette stated
that a solution to the problem was
difficult in view of the fact that according to report Mr. Daley had al
ready contracted for $50.00 worth of
advertising per issue.

Mr. Hurst asserted that the only
solution to the difficulty lies in the
Council granting the Gazette an extra
appropriation whereby they could bring
out a six page issue.

Then members of the Council made
some comments suggesting improvements in the Gazette—proposing omission of the sport heading and of the
Gazette staff list. Their criticisms
in general showed that they seemed
to want the Gazette to be a mere newssheet devoid of attractiveness, only
a mouthpiece of Council activities.

Mr. Hurst pointed out that the
Gazette was more than a news-sheet,
being also an important activity
in itself, more than fifty students
actively participating in putting it out.

It was finally decided that the
President of the Council be empowered
to meet with the editors and business
managers of the Gazette to find a
solution of the problem.

Mr. Barnhill then threw an effective
bombshell criticizing the column
“Sport Sagas”. He asked if the
Council would support the Gazette if
such stuff continued to appear.

Mr. Hurst retorted that before
the column had been given to the
printer the entire copy was read
to Mr. Barnhill. He approved and
then came complaining to the
councl.

‘CRITICAL MOMENTS.

; Q y XDA

7
(g

ie

arf |
yi
ree I hs

SG

WHEN YOURE
THE PROMPTER
AT THE

COLLEGE
THEATRICAL
—AND THE HERO HAS JUST FORGOTTEN
HIS LINES AND YOU REACH FOR YOUR

PROMPT BOOK ONLY TO FIND THAT SOME
WAG HAS STOLEN IT,—LEAVING YoU A

PATENT MEDICINE

CALENDAR— — —

rh

os oi: Sars if ie be oe ‘ ;
ie ce RN ets”

a ‘
“7 E
eer 4 sa fagl® :

 
 
   
  

PAS”
Aa mee
oh “4 aA.

7 wl ¥
ss

 

 
      
        
 
         
         
    

As high-schools girls we were pce
forward to the time when we should
become members of the Delta Gamma!
But what a letdown! Perhaps we
expected too much.

In the first place the attendance of
the meetings is terrible. Few city
girls go, but there are fewer ‘‘Hall”’
girls. We suppose that the latter who
manage to drag themselves downstairs
feel that they might just as well knit
before a fire as in cold rooms.

The Council is extremely stingy in
granting money to our organization,
but how foolishly it is spent—buying
refreshments for the meetings! This
appears to be the only inducement for
attendance. We suggest that this
money be spent on a good dance, to
*| show the boys that we are capable
of giving something worthwhile, instead of that ridiculous tea-dance.
If not this, we could at least provide
something useful to the university.

How about some support? After
all what we really need is spirit and
action if we want any kind of organization. Let us show some pep and make
the Delta Gamma meet the expectations
of all!

While we are in this critical mood
we might ask—are there to be no
Health Talks for the Freshmen this
| year? We feel that these talks are|
necessary and have been a _ great
asset in past years, and are the Freshmen not to be encouraged in writing
-| for the Gazette as the Freshettes have
been? Surely talent can be found
among the Freshmen when they outnumber us three to one.

We hope that we have not stepped
out of place in this criticism, but we
were asked to give our humble opinions
—and we did,

over the telephone’
r ded the elusive
Ye ny him to the ‘‘Boilermal ge onetntis are

  

iw

     
       
     
    
      
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
    
       
          
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
    
       
    
    
         
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 

and that Cameron, the
the ‘MacNeil clan, has posfar beyond our expectations.
his oratorical powers will
unnoticed by Sodales, He
€ put to good use at Glee Club

  

  

  

by our cute Mr. Storey were
much in evidence at the Supper

  

 
 

. Storey’s estimation since this

Lae

: first appearance at the gala

  

ae eparentiy his presence is needed
keep MacGregor awake. Where
was the party Sunday night, Don?
yu

4 he law school is wondering where
ite master’’ can be. Is it the
ermuda sun or what, Buck?

  

TWO FRESHETTES.

—_——_0

Campus Interviews

Feeling that conditions for writing
examinations are very poor, we decided
to ask some Freshmen for their various
opinions. We thought that their opinions would be more adequate since
they have just finished their first
_ }examinations under such conditions.
..| Their answers varied but the chief
‘trouble. ‘seemed to be in the ventilation
‘system and the wobbly desks.
.| latter should be a very easy matter to
fix.

Helen Connor—It is unfair to
expect too much. I feel, however
that if the ‘“Med” students must
write with us that we should be sup| plied with steady desks, so that we
would not always be conscious of
them drawing. There must be some
ventilation system which would do the
‘| job with less noise and probably more
effectively.

Marion Little—I think that the
conditions for writing exams could
and should be improved. For instance:

1) A boy drawing at the same table
caused too much commotion 2s he was
continually erasing.

(2) The ventilation system not
only made a terrible noise but did not
fulfil its purpose properly.

(3) Whenever a student left early
there was a great deal of disturbance
resulting from the stamping of feet.

Dick Murphy and Ron Wallace—
who said “the ventilation system made
one Hell of a noise, so much that we
couldn't hear what was said behind
us”.

Charlie Roberts—The professors
seemed to make unnecessary noise
talking among themselves, but on
the whole the examination room was
quiet enough. My advice would be
to have a warmer room for the ‘ordeal’.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the erudite professor’s not pro
Peeing,

) the enterprising pedagogue is

free,

He loves to see the devastating Dietrich

_ Or dandle little Junior on his knee.

When he’s through with international

Fes relations

H He loves to light a great big black cigar,

i e loves to fiddle with the carburetor,
Or r paddle where the apecied beauties

; é ur BS =

: 7 nm us with things more harum-scarum
‘ to be done

A oo $ lot is not a happy one.

 

 

  

 

a fs
Vy he :

  

 

 

  
  

a
a
eg
|
=
ao
—+
©
a
ie)
°
Ct
~
oe
9
cv
u
a
°
2
@

  

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

  

 

 

  

 

 

  

 

 

R. W.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
  

  
   

   
  

DANCE FAVORS

Formal parties nowadays

 

| FOOTWEAR
F For
the largest assortment

  

   

   
  
  

, cas
Sia} ie.
J 7

   
  
 
  

  
   
   
 
 
  

are incomplete without the

 
 
   
 

personal favor.

of ¢ GOOD SHOES

Birks have supplied many

   
  

in the past and are ready
with new suggestions this

     
   

season.

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
  
   
 
  
   

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
Barrington St.

     

The}

my cd Rn “i ie fs : '

The Mackiembut Committee of the
D. A. A. C., that efficient body under
whose jurisdiction sporting activities
are controlled at Dalhousie, met Sunday morning in~ lengthy conclave.

The matter of an indoor track meet
was the first item up for discussion.

Definitely decided to hold this novel

event during the third week in February. Henry Gold appeared before
the meeting and submitted a proposal
for an intercollegiate indoor meet.

Dalhousie’s entry in the Intercollegiate Hockey League will play their
opening game this week. With plenty
of material, a grant of $75.00 from the
Council of Students, the Tiger entry
looks strong.

The Management Committee approved the Basketball league action
in granting 400 free tickets for the
opening of the league Thursday night.

The next item of business concerned
the appointment of an asst. manager
for the basketball team. From four
applicants Bill Scott was the final
choice for the post.

John Carroll proposed that the
Education faculty be granted admittance into interfaculty softball. Ed
Cragg asserted that their request be
granted in view of the fact that henceforth the Arts and Science aggregation
would not finish up at the wrong end
of the league.

Due to the difficulty of obtaining
suitable hours for softball and due to
the increased use of the Gymnasium,
Mr. Carroll expressed the opinion
that the question of opening the
Gymnasium on Sunday afternoon be
taken before the Senate Gym. Committee. The hours set aside for Alumni
badminton, are not only inadequate
but also inconvenient and the opening
of the Gymnasium seems the only
solution to the problem.

Manager Tobias Beeber then presented the football report, the details
of which would be too lengthy to set
forth here. The financial status. of
the team is as yet not determined but
will be released in the near future.

Tennis Manager, Henrv Reardon,
brought in a very creditable report
of the activities of the Tennis team.

The intercollegiate crown this year
was not awarded, Dalhousie and Mount
A. being unable to declare a winner
with a tie match at Sackville being
the reason for the non award.

An interesting high light of the
meeting arose through the discussion
of the protested game with Wanderer's.
The league declared this contest no
game, In the matter of awards the
D. A. A. C. regard it in the same light.
Those of you who were present on
that special Saturday afternoon will
remember the conditions under which
the team were forced into action.
A mud soaked field, which made football impossible, and which transformed
the field into a sea of mud, covering
the players in such a way that one
was unable to recognize his team
mate, yet this exhibition will not
count in the awarding of D’s. What
price glory!

Frosh Win Debate

Upholding the affirmative side of
the resolution “That Canada should
withdraw from the British Empire”
the Freshman team composed _ of
Doug McKeen and Maureen Allen
defeated George Piercey and Joyce
Sircom representatives of the Sophomore Class in the first of the series
of debates for the Bennett Shield.

When the same subject was discussed
by representatives of Mount Allison
and a combined Dalhousie-Kings team
the local duo supporting the negative
were awarded the decision.

Leo Landreville, President of Sodales,
taking exception «to an unfavorable
reference to the French race made
by Miss Allen in her address added a
touch of comedy to the affair with
his remarks.

Edward Arab acted as Chairman
for the debate with Professors, Cowan,
Curtis and Nichols filling the roles of
judges,

 

Have you

Tried Our

Toasted Hamburgers

Drop in after the Show

EV ANGELINE

36 Spring Garden Rd.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

“The Miadthniece D. - A. C. Meets| Views on News

 

“King Edward did not abdicate
the throne to marry Mrs. Simpson.
He abdicated because in his own
opinion his actions rendered him
unfit to occupy the throne of Britain
any longer...... Much as he deserves
the censure of history, he behaved
with the sensibility and loyalty of a
statesman and a gentleman throughout the crisis. His determination to
do nothing unconstitutional ensured
his own defeat but guaranteed Parliamentary stability.”

“My own feelings are somewhat
constrained by an acquaintanceship
with the Simpsons going back a long
MAW Had she (Mrs. Simpson)
really loved either king or husband
she might have saved herself. But a
woman in love with herself and drunk
with spurious social success does not
understand the meaning of the word
sacrifice.”

—Beverley Baxter, Maclean's Magasine.

“The 19th century has condemned
us to wear these drainpipes’ snorts
Eric Newton of The Manchester
Guardian, looking at his trousers.
A few modern Beau Brummelswould
do the world a lot of good.” Well
now, we don’t know, Mr. Newton,
take Dalhousie for instance

 

The war in Spain drags brutally on.
Still every day that passes without
some other nation getting itself involved is so much to the good. President Wilson once said, ‘‘There is such
a thing as a Nation being too proud to
fight’’ and was greatly criticized for
the statement. For ourselves we don’t
care whether the European Nations
are too proud or too scared to fight
just so long as they don’t fight.

 

Before the end of February
30,000,000 residents of India (including 5,000,000 women) will go to the
polls to select new legislative assemblie
in eleven provinces and legislative
councils in six of them. We are told
that 5,000 candidates have been nominated for 1585 Assembly seats and
260 Council seats. Thus India marches
on to self-government.

Speaking of self-government we have
yet to find someone who approves of
this Popularity Contest run by Mr.
Gold and his associates. Student affairs are supposed to be run democratically we are told. Then why contest?
since nobody wants it.

An enterprising New York store
offers for sale a ‘‘Duke of Windsor
Deck Suit."” The “ad” states that
the suit comprises, ‘‘man tailored
slacks, jersey pull-over, linen madcap, open toe deck sandals.”’ Yes
you're right—lIt’s for women. How
did you guess?

Dal-Kings Victors

My dear Bill:—

Well, what do you think of it? You
must admit that our Henry Hicks
and Ted DeWolfe put it over big last
Friday in the Haliburton Room of
your King’s College. Sure thing
though, these narrow minded Nationalists in the audience mustn’t have
liked it. A decision against Isolation
as a national policy rendered by so
eminent judges as Profs. J. A. Maxwell
and Burns Martin must have scorched
their egotistical convictions. Undoubtedly they were not expressing personal
opinions for after all it was but a
debate. Surprising though to a certain
extent that the arguments of Ralph
Connors and George Buckley from
Mount A. haven't convinced the judges
otherwise for they were on the whole
very logical and presented in interesting
form. But considering on _ second
thought our own speakers, admittedly
sophistical reasoning wasn’t their lot.
Henry specially, finding strength in
Dr. Chases’ coughdrops, stood mighty
on that platform.

You deserve congratulations too,
my dear Bill, for conducting so capably
the meeting. My feelings in this
matter, rest assured, are those also
of the large audience that had gathered
for this outstanding debate. Undoubtedly, the King’s men acclaim you
today as the best Manager of Debates
they’ve had in years. We say “idem”

Yours,
SELADOS.
—— O0————

When an irristible force meets an
immovable body, a police officer comes
along and looks over the driver’s license.

 

 

 

 
      
  

“I wonder what she’d say if she came to life—”
“I know—she’d ask for a Sweet Cap!”

  
    

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”’— Lancet

 

The latest Popular Music.

The latest Victor Records.

All Popular Magazines.

All Musical Instruments.

Radios in best makes.

Lending Library of latest
Fiction.

Cards for every occasion.

Attractive Novelties for
Souvenirs.

McDonald Music Co.

393 BARRINGTON ST.

FOR

Portable Typewriters

Call

Smith Maclvor
B-2852

Time Payment Terms to
Students

 

Insist on getting

A. PUBLICOVER

2 SHOPS
LORD NELSON HOTEL
and

23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

Donovan’s Beverages
including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B 6821

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

| CASINO

GOOD THINGS

To
EAT

and

DRINK

 

Saturday—Mon.—Tuesday
January 23-25-26

THE DIONNE
QUINTUPLETS

“REUNION”

Coming January 27th

“THE GREAT
ZIEGFELD”

The Green Lantern

 

DURING JANUARY WE OFFER SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS IN ALL LEATHER GOODS.

—CALL EARLY AND SAVE—

AELLY’S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

Established 1876 Phone B-6962

When You Need
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

better SERVICE VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

You

get and

at

 

   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   

 
   
   
     
  

BOUTILIER’S OYSTER

BAR

Oysters Served on the Half-Shell
or Cocktails
Open from 8 A.M. to 6 P.M. everyday

BOUTILIERS Ltd.

30 Bedford Row

 
      
  
   
  
    
   
  

B-6351

 

 
 

   
    
   
  

7
r

r *
es
we a

 
  

i oe
es We
Ting Og

¢

 

  

  
    
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  

Page Four

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

January 22nd, 1987

 

 

—————$

 

—————

TIGERS GIVE CITY CHAMPIONS STIFF BATTLE

SPORT SCHEDULE

Baskethkall

Senior—Dal vs Acadia
Mon. at Acadia

Intermediate—Dal vs Wanderers

Saturday

Dal vs St. Georges
Thursday

Hockey

Dalhousie vs Sunocos
Tuesday

 

Dal Hoop Squad Displays
Great Form Against Reds

Playing before perhaps the largest
crowd in provincial basketball history,
a courageous band of Tigers defended
their lair with surprising ferocity
against last year’s champions. Wanderers pulled the game out of the fire
by a second period scoring splurge, and
emerged from the fracas with a 26—20
victory.

Smart blocking and fast breaking
featured a brilliant student offensive
which whipped the ball around a
bewildered club squad to pile up a
substantial lead in the opening minutes
of the game. Trumpets blared and
fans yelled when the collegians walked
off the floor boasting an 11-4 half-time
score.

The sensational form of the underrated students set the experts back on
their heels. Bill Book, hard-working
Dal guard, effectively bottled up
flashy Don Bauld, last year’s leagueleader to one field-goal, and also turned
in a good performance on the firingline. Ecky Woodworth, Tiger mentor,
masterminded a great game on the
side-lines, and handled his charges with
skill.

After the breather the rejuvenated
Redmen staged a driving attack to
put the game on ice with a 17 point
-come-back which repeated rallies of
the Dal quintet failed to overcome, and

ms left the court with a hard-earned vict
ory. .

With less individualism, more teamplay, and some shooting practise, they
may yet gather in a championship.
Good luck at Acadia Monday

Dal line-up: Crease 3, Macleod 4,
Cook 2, Ideson 4, Goudey 2, Hubbard
2, Stewart 8, Storey, Baird, Shainhouse.

Spring Surprise
DAL 2-TRAM 10

For two periods the Dal Tigers
put the Trams off the tracks and kept
them off, and it looked as if the Collegians could halt the victory march
of the speedy tramways. However,
things began to happen in the disastrous
third. period; Lawlor, Ferguson and
Co. rapped in six goals to turn what
was otherwise a tightly fought game
into a rout.

At the end of the first period the
Powermen boasted a 1-0 lead due to a
nice goal by Lawlor. The students
jumped to the fore early in the middle
canto. Fifty seconds after the period
began Cohn took a pass from DeWolfe
and dented the twine to tie up the
game. Five minutes later Ken Beer
put Dal ahead on a nice play with
Napier and Dickey. About five minutes from the end of the period with
Tigers swarming continually around
the trams’ citadel, Carroll was handed
a penalty then a tram player fell
down, and before he got back Ferguson
had scored three goals. They added
another on a soft shot.

In the final twenty minutes the
Collegians went to pieces and the
Powermen piled up a 10-2 count,
mainly through the great work of
Chummie Lawlor. Dal play in general
showed definitelack of condition thru
inability to get enough practice.

Dal lineup:

Goal, Fahie; defense, Carroll, MacGregor; forwards, Cohn, Graham, DeWolfe, Mullane, Corston, Napier, Beer,
Dickey.

 

January is Sale Month

at SHANE’S

For the duration of this month we are offering

exceptional values in clothing and furnishings.

ALL SUITS REDUCED 20% OR MORE, DRASTIC DISCOUNTS ON ALL OF OUR LARGE
STOCK OF OVERCOATS, SAVE AS MUCH
AS ONE THIRD OF THE REGULAR PRICES.

EXTRA-Shane’s Famous Shirt Sale

has just started, all $2.00 and $2.50 shirts at
$1.39 each or 3 for $4.00.

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

 

 

     
 

 
  
 
  
 
 
   

SPORT SAGAS

column had made its last appearance. Perish the thought!

We're still here.

We notice that a certain sport columnist in one of the local
dailies has revived the cigar box incident. According to this
column Dalhousie has as yet not won the Championship of
the City League. The fact that Dalhousie upset the predictions of the 99% Wrong Club is still a sore point with him
apparently.

But to turn from the victorious past and view the uncertain though promising future.

On Tuesday evening the Tigers gave locel hockey fans a big surprise.
During the first period and a half the Dalhousians outskated, outsmarted and
generally outplayed the league leading Tramways. At this point they led by
a score of 2-1. Then for no reason at all, the entire team went to pieces and
before the final bell Tramways had amassed a total of ten goals.

The statement regarding the hockey team which appeared in this column
last week has in many cases been misconstrued and so we present the facts.

Dalhousie has in ‘Goal a Game’’ MacGregor, rotund Johnny Carroll,
“Fighting’’ Pooh DeWolfe, ‘“Get them the hard way’’ Fahie, ‘‘Brains’’ Cohn,
“Farmer Boy” Beer and others, players who are as good and even better than
the average player in the City League. But Dalhousie’s pucksters are operating
at a disadvantage. The other teams in the league are free to sign any player
who comes under the residence rule—Dalhousie is limited to the student body.

Dalhousie has not had the opportunity to construct a team, its not the
fault of the players, not the fault of the D. A. A. C., not the fault of Manager
Sheehan or Dictator Barnhill, IT’S CIRCUMSTANCES.

However, the league is as yet not over and though the score may not indicate the fact, Dalhousie is improving with every game to such an extent that
local hockey critics, (MEN WHO UNLIKE YOUR SPORT CORRESPONDENT REALLY KNOW HOCKEY) predict that before the league schedule
is completed, Dalhousie will improve to such an extent as to make it difficult
FOR MEN OF THE CALIBRE OF LAWLOR, McKENZIE AND HANRAHAN.

Dalhousie’s Rights

With the revival of interest in athletics this year, Gym officials are having
considerable difficulty in finding suitable hours for every organization. Might
we be so bold to point however, that the interests of the present students should
be their first consideration,

Amidst a flourish of trumpets (The Dal Band) the Tigers opened the
basketball season Thursday evening. And right here we wish to show how
we can pick them. Dalhousie may not set the world afire in the first two games
but opponents had best beware from that point on.

Grapplers Meet | _Interfaculty

and groan Law 22-Engineers 13
this term’s

Enthusiasm

The Dalhousie grunt
specialists have started
workouts with a_ bang.
is running high and an unusually large
number are turning out for the sport
which gives one a maximum of exercise in a minimum of time. Some of
the coming champions are Eric Mercer,
Bill Crooks, Dannie Halperin, and Sid
Pauker, manager. Mr. Pauker
forms us that he has been able to
arrange a meet with the Y. M. C. A.
for next month and for entry in the
Maritime Championships in March.

All students interested in acquiring
that physique that all the girls admire
turn out any Monday, Wednesday and
Friday at 8.30.

—————

clashed
Law winning

The Engineers and Law
this week in basketball.
by a decisive victory.
Za-1e, both
sides. The outstanding players were
B. Cook, I. MacLeod for Law, and
Hodson and Lipton for Engineers.

Law:—I. MacKeigan, L. Kitz, B.
Ceok, Baird, Gunter, I. MacLeod,
Swetnam,

Engineers :—B. Purvis, R. Hodson,
Lipton, Baycroft, M. Dean, R. Hiseler.

The referee was A. MacKenzie.

The score was

penalties were few on

in
Saturday Night Grace

and

O Lord we thank Thee
For these beans—

If they be beans,

And I’m afraid they be.

CAPITOL

TODAY FOR
ONE FULL WEEK

“LLOYDS
OF
LONDON”

with
FREDDIE BARTHOLOMEW
MADELEINE CARROLL
TYRONE POWER
C. AUBREY SMITH

 

 

     
   

 

TT

SPECIAL RATES TO
STUDENTS

 
 
  
   
    

  

Perhaps after last week's issue our readers thought this

as she danced out on to the stage.

  
 
 

 

 

S-m-o-o-t-h,

 

— 24 Hour

 

Schedule Given

The schedule Maritime
Girls’ Intercollegiate Basketball League
was drawn up last Saturday and is as
follows:

Sat., Feb. 18, Mt. A. at Dalhousie.

Fri., Feb. 19, Mt. A. at Acadia.

Sat., Feb. 27, Acadia at Dalhousie.

Sat., Mar. 6, Dal. at Mt. A.

Fri., Mar. 12, Acadia at Mt. A.

Sat., Mar. 20, Dalhousie at Acadia

The League
started and at present
Seniors are in the lead. Next Saturday
the Freshettes
meet each other for the second time.

for the

has been

the Junior
Inter-class

Sophmores and will
The Sophs were the victors in the last
encounter but the have
been gaining experience and this time
they should put up a very good fight.

Athletics Wanted

Girls basketball practices have been
held three times a week for quite some
time now and are coming along very
successfully. Although no team has
been officially picked the most likely
candidates are Joan Anderson, Margaret Hall, Charlotte Smith, and Irene
Pentz. Among the newcomers there
are Zelpha Linkletter Jamesie
Crease. Zelpha is a good shot and
exceptionally fast. She is probably
aided by her experience in ice hockey.
(Did you know that Zelpha was one
of the best ice hockey players among
the girls of Canada?).

Although the girls have the gymnasium that they may play badminton

Freshettes

 

and

on Tuesday evenings after basketball | ‘ ; Se
faite played, but it was sufficient to show

practice very few turn out.
because they do not know of the opportunity? There are many advantages, the chief being that they can

play with more experienced players
and probably improve their game.
As an added inducement free birds

are supplied on this evening.
o————

Look over this Sway.
“Well, I think I'll put the motion
before the house,” said the chorus girl

B-9651

  

MISS MACNEIL

THE BEAUTY SPOT

197; QUINPOOL ROAD.

 
   
 

Series of Contoure Facials

  
 

 

6 for $5.00

  

 

Welcome to Dalhousie Girls

SPORT RESULTS

Basketball
Senior—Dal 20 Wanderers 26
Intermediate—Dal 25—Tech. 19

Hockey

Dalhousie 2—Tramway 10

Tigers Trim Tech

On Saturday night a band of rejuvenated Tiger Cubs, smarting under
the sting of a three point setback
at the hands of the Kingsmen, recover
ed some of their lost prestige by send
ing Tech to the showers at the short
end of a 25-19 score.
| several

Reinforced by

calibre and
paced by Bob Goudey, Dal turned in
a good performance to take their first
win of the season and tie for second

men of senior

place in the league standing. The
game was closely contested from
| beginning to end but the more ex
perienced Tiger squad assured themselves of the victory by close guarding
in the second At half time
Dal led 14-12 and on resumption of
play outscored their opponents by a
brace of baskets, and left the floor
boasting a point lead. Goudey
and Ed Stewart put on the best exhibition of shooting for Dal and highlighted their teams performance as well.
Dalhousie line-up—

L. Stewart; Lyall; Stech, 2; Goudey,

period.

Six

12; Agryn; Shainhouse; Kagel; E.
Stewart, 6; Baird, 5; Vair.
—_o

 

 

 

  
 
    
  

mild—

throat-easy

CIGARETTES

Buckingham
| Cong

 

   
  
 
  

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

| SEE OUR PICTORIAL WORK
FOR GIFTS

Finishing Service —

—— eee

18 SPRING GARDEN RD.

Interfaculty
SOFTBALL

Commerce 11-Education 30

Featured by a sensational third
inning rally that netted them 165 runs,
Education took Commerce to the
une of 30-11. Only five innings were

that Education are potential champs.
They capitalized on breaks when the
pitching weakened in the third inning
and showed considerable batting power
in that torrid canto.

Law 9-Arts and Science 6

In the second game of the doubleheader Law worked out a 9-6 victory
over the Arts & Science nine. This
was the hardest fought game of the
evening and was one in which both
squads showed convincing form.

Strike-out king Biard and home-run
king Gunter starred for Law.

—<—$__9—_.____

In a modern war there is no victory.
The Allies won the war, but the regiments that marched in triumph were
not the men who fought the war. The
men who fought the war were dead.—
Ernest Hemingway.

   

 

 
  
 
 

Phone B 6992

 

  

 

 

 
 
    
 

          
        
           
         
    
    
          
          
       
   
     
        
         
   

  
 
 
 
 

    
    
     
   
    
         

  
