 

   

   

é | Have a Date
|| with

 
   

   

Dal Student
Body Lacks

   
 

Loyalty to
Team

  

Lets

VOL. LXVII.

BENGALS BATTLE COLLECE CHAMPS TOMORROW

Councillors Squabble In War’s Shadow Fascists Trends Large Crowd of Fans
Over Gym Dance Problem

Expect to Cheer Team

?,
*°

HALIFAX, N.S., NOVEMBER 6th, 1936 No. 7

 

 

Proud should we be of our democratic freedom from the atrocities of
Fascist Europe, and proud of the

Speaking before the student body
of Dalhousie university Escott Reid
prominent Canadian lecturer on inter
 

 

 

¥:

ie
| »

The third official meeting of the
governing body of Dalhousie was
held last Sunday to consider the
following subjects:

1. King’s-Dalhousie Agreement.

2. Student Train to Acadia this
Saturday.

8. The matter of a date for the
Commerce Society's annual dance.

Now perhaps it was the atmosphere

Reds Outplayed

The Dal Tigers out-played, outfought, and out-smarted the Wanderers at Studley last Saturday but ‘Lady
Luck’ took a hand in the game with
the result that Dal lost its chance to
capture the championship the game
ending 3-3. The fightingest team that

national affairs, gave the student a very
interesting view of the European crisis.
Taking as his subject ‘‘Canada’s Foreign Policy”, Mr. Reid opened his address with the assertion that at the
present time Canadians are living in
the shadow of another great war.

The only hope of postponing the
conflict in the Pacific he states, is a
system of collective security.

glories of the British empire (although
perhaps not as proud as one of our
local professorial commentators on
international affairs would have us be).

Dance Opinions

In answer to the burning question

In any case, our pride should be} Whether the Students’ Council should

accompanied by watchfulness.

And|favor the request of the Commerce

we suggest that watchfulness would | Society to hold a dance in the Studley
reveal to view in our fair Canada an| Gymnasium on the evening of Janualarming outbreak of fascism which|@ry 7th in preference to the Engineer
Should be severely squelched.

ing Society's Boilermaker’s Ball on the

| be Dalhousie’s year!

The Gold and Black ruggers are ia
\for their hardest game of the football
;season tomorrow when they play
Acadia at Wolfville. The boys are in
fine fettle—the cheering news of the
| protest being granted casting a new
spirit cver the gridiron as they now
have a chance for the title. - That title
has eluded us long enough. This must
Every Dal rooter

made most distasteful through the has represented the little ‘college by Looking at the question from the| Activities of the Black Legion in the | 15th the Gazette has attempted through | gpoyld be in Wolfville tomorrow
~s . : . ? ; = 7 a . . ai! 2 .

. , ue +2. 6 7 K , " .

perhaps it was merely the after effects|™to the enemy’s camp from the forth four possible policies. On the one| among would-be organizing share crop-| opinion of the average student to the| hard team to beat—the memory of

of the Law Ball but nevertheless we
must confess never have we seen so

opening whistle and with but few
exceptions kept it there for the entire

hand Canada can always build up
her own armaments and thus defend

pers in the cotton belt, are not perhaps
within the present field of comment’

question.
Subject: Which do you prefer dances

that 11-0 licking of last year at Wolfville still rankles to say aothing of the

 

‘many men who are reputed to be|$ame. A hard tackling Red back-| herself. Next there is the possibility | Neither is an event occurring the first of the type of the last Students’ Council | frg¢ game this year. Have no fear
wise and efficient waste so much| field held Dal scoreless in the first | of an empire policy. Then again there|of last week when American legion-| dance or affairs held in the down town | spout Dal’s team? The boys are
time over such trivial matters. period while Wanderers collected 3] is the possibility of a Canadian-Am-| aires. unofficially broke up a com- hotels? taking no chances. ‘Acadia first and
Smith Mclvor, speaking on behalf | Points on a beautiful 40 yard penalty | erican policy for the defence of the|munist meeting in Tampa. But all} Farle Fraser, graduate student in/ipen the Wanderers’ is their cry.
of the Committee considering the | dropkick by Ryde. North American continent. Finally|these seem to have tempted our| Arts. I favor a decent Proportion of | What they do want is our support,
King’s agreement asserted that his] ).) j:terally swarmed over the | he pointed out Canada has the oppor-| neighbours in Quebec to do the same. both types of affairs. Upto the present | aj) roads lead to Acadia tomorrow.
committee had been unable to reach Watdebors an the, “haa Heriod. but tunity of adopting a pacifist attitude.| Not so long ago we noted in these | Gymnasium dances have not had the
a décision-in the matter and-suggested columns an  anti-semitic outbreak| benefit of sufficient preparation. If area Oireeisetinee

that an arbitration board composed

of three professors be appointed to

look into the affair. PASSED. ;
Next question up was the matter
of the Student Train to Acadia.
Everything went along very smoothly
eee ig went along

“Science is cruel, only to be kind

 

 

failed to break into the scoring until
10 seconds before the final whistle
when the sweetest backfield run of
the season was pulled off. Dougan
broke into the clear a little to the
Wanderers’ side of centre field and
near the side-line—before being tackled

 

last meeting. For the greater portion
of the first half the Saints nad a slight

 

Law Ball Quiet

The annual Law Ball which has
earned the reputation of being one

 

 

A fighting squad from Commerce
among French-Canadian students of
the University of Montreal, We
thought at the time that that was but
the result of a sporadic spree of a
few irresponsible morons. That it
was but one ominous manifestation of

 

aine alleged cases where wrong rulings
were given oa agreed facts—rulings

the refreshment problem can be solved
I tead to faver activities of the type
of the Jast Council dance.

Jean Fitzgerald, Arts Student: C’est
egal. But I refuse to be quoted.
If you put that down I’ll tell the editors.

assisted in some way in _ tonight’s
presentation of the Glee Club, “ Cin
Make Exchanges

The National Federatioa of Canadian University’ Students again  annownces its list of studéits on exchange

Mount Allison.
1.. Miss Margt. Messenger to Tor
y, hpeepiae samp ae any 4 * o 5 55h apm oe prcene Engineers set the Law team back by] which cost Dalhousie the game in ques-|derella’’, a musical fantasy under Perr
: ‘ ard for the remainder o OORRG Te. cline margin of an unconverted | tio.. the direction of J. P. Connolly. A| Saskatchewan.
and only missed scoring by small . ; at AS s sai! 14. E. Norris Davis to Dalhousie
‘ The Dalhous; : try in an Inter-faculty League contest.| The surprising thing about the pro-|stage crew under the supervision of
i ll Ci margins. The Dalhousie goal-line was Blair Purves took a pass from Mac-|test question is that a Dal alumnus] Mr. Geoffrey Marshall have devised (Law).
A ez au IN€Ma | crossed once, but the play was called Donald and raced 40 yards to score| (and let us hope there are no others| suitable effects in scenery and lighting | Toronto.

It has just been announced that the
French film to be shown shortly in
- Halifax will be ‘‘La Chanson d'adieu”,
a musical comedy on the life of Schubert. It will be shown on Wednesday,
matinee and evening, the 18th of
November, at the Orpheus Theatre.
Tickets may be obtained from
Professor Gautheron and from members of the French Circle of Dalhousie
and of L’Alliance Francaise, or at the

back for an off-side, and this was the
only dangerous offensive of the entire
match. The Cub’s play was featured
by several long gains by Dean and
Pauker who were outstanding for the
home team.

Dalhousie line-up—

Fullback, Laidlaw; three-quarters,
Dean, Pauker, Hanway, Fenaell; halves
Chernin, Lipton, Cameron; forwards,
McGregor, Rankin, Hodgson, Mush
what proved to be the winning points.
Pete Stanfield failed to convert. The
game was close from beginning to end,
but the winners deserved their success.

— ——O--—_ -— —

Remembrance

Armistice Day, Wednesday,
November 11, will be a University holiday.

like him) refused apparently to give
Dalhousie a fair break. That the
sports editor of a paper noted for its
fairness should go out of his way in a
feature article to give the impression
that the Dal protest was based merely
on an idle bet abcut a cigar, and sheuld
relatively ignore the legitimate grounds
of protest recognized by
League, is almost inconceivable.
such is the case!
mended for oblivion,

the City
But

we therefore

which are said to rival any previous
attempts. Onstage—Bud MacDougall
Margaret Morrisey, Ian MacGregor,
Shirley Kirkpatrick, Marian Little —
stars tonight, and tomorrow—?
These and many others will do their
bit for this musical story of the poor
little girl who made good. A fanciful
story interpolated with modern musical
numbers which should give sufficient

Among those recom- | scope for any talent.

Tonight—the Gym.—8.15—a_ date

15. Jas. Rigby to British Columbia.
Western Ontario.

16. Steurt Calvert to B. C.

No-Cut-Ins

The Glee Club executive de
sires to announce that there

will be NO CUT-IN DANCES at
This
policy will go into effect after
tonight’s Freshman Show.

their dances this year.

= - until Edward Barnhill representing : lee -. | Of the most boisterous social ie strong fascist group among French| Walter Murphy, Arts student, In es
(et, ‘the D. A. Be AS so haeed that his meron ee ote a at Dalhousie took place very quietly | students is now apparent. Last week-| ™y opinion the Commerce Society are a at 5 ee en et ee
é . ‘body could send the team to Acadia 2 eo ee esi ae “gah last Thursday evening. Some time|end when an innocent delegation of | to be hearitily congratulated for the et sua ei fe tive ay y cs
fe: o by car for $25.00 less than the proposed Pent Teer tik or hast a ago one columnist referred to the} Spanish loyalists now touring Canada| attempt they ache making. My bases distin Ge AB atet bs LT Gana iG ;
train trip. .. .long discussion. .. . finally |. S e i s™ h 8 - - 2 Freshie Soph dance asa flop. Another] on behalf of their sorely-beset country | for favoring Gymnasium dances is that ebatty: each : ae madd f on
re Waited to-send tear Hy trail. ing over _ a in the a or a columnist in speaking of it said “It|had arranged to speak in Montreal, I believe they exemplify to a greater : es Y ge out a et ment o oe
o Finally however the Council definite- any om a ia ee oe f represents the dawn of a new dance|and had secured official permission | degree that much discussed quality of Sieh 59 *€ aRte ae Wa ay ne
ly decided to go ahead with plans for ‘ aes rs dg ml ws era at Dalhousie.” The statement of |several hundred University of Mon-| College spirit. Speaking for myself | mae , ci eens ve ieee
the trip. The different Council repre- eee caret roe ey: BROS the latter seems quite true, for the|treal students raided city hall, and| had a much more enjoyable time at the = nde iw eet etre ‘than
sentatives as well as officials of the oe re Law Ball proved most conclusivel4 | demonstrated so vociferously and force- | Studeat’s Council dance than at any seins a Sep ale ue rates
D. A. A. C. will be selling tickets} A little more passing at opportune|that the student body favors a more|fully that the police cancelled their | hotel dance last winter, ee epeyooe
throughout the week. moments and better judgment and] moderate form of entertainment than| permission to the Spaniards. This| Erin Russell, Arts Student. Why do a Po ees dee yee
Thea came the bombshell. Roland|/Dal might have gained a glorious| has been the case in previous years.| was despite strong protest from McGill| you ask me? The boys should have Pi ae inst bless Son RIEPR ES
Hurst, representative of the Com-| victory which was justly deserved| This spirit is not to be shunned, rather | students who subsequently entertained|the say in this question, After all ae. a sae Bish March 31,
merce Society, made a request that|but denied her. The team asa whole|the studeats of Dalhousie are to be| the Spanish delegates at private meet-| they do the paying so in my opinion . nie Peas ae mtérested
the Council grant his society permis-| deserves credit for the fine game it|congratulated for the manner in which|ings. It is certainly a disgraceful|let them express their views. I will ud get dc ae _with Gordon
sion to hold a dance in the Studley] played. They were in there every|their social activities have been con-|commentary on Montreal that such| Say however, that the Students’ Coun- a Ror sth d wae N. F.C. U.
Gymnasium on the evening of Jan-/moment and it was only the fine|ducted this year. The atmosphere| hospitality should be proffered. It|cil dance was a very fine one. Also if te re
uary 7th. Ted Watson, representa-| defensive work of the Wanderers] of these affairs bespeaks the presence|eminds us too sickeningly of the| we had our dances in the Gymnasium| For the present ye the following
tive for the Engineering Society to-| that kept the score as it was. of ladies and gentlemen. "5. Oe reatment by Toronto policy of un-| We could have more, not that we need exchanges were definitely arranged:
gether with Wallace Wright, Soph- 7 ‘ 2 ae Now for some observations of a|rmployed, and of the Regina riots. ee : ‘ Acadia University.
more representative, protested strongly ee ee, BO Oh) CMe inh e. Elwynn Hughes, last year’s exchange ;
that this was merely an attempt on|fefereeing—it was by far’ the beat . Ton aiies on Page 4) student with McGill. Hotel dances " eg Clements Or beans
: the part of the Commerce Society job done this year. Naturally * few | Sports Writer being merely social functions are not in Alkised:
‘ to balk the efforts of the Engineers| things went by the boards but Referee the same class with dances held in the SAK! Bh) See British
who plan to hold their annual ball|Sullivan gave both teams a square Facult Ru er Ignores Facts University Gymnasium. Dances in ; ue bi: Sees” et ee
| in the Nova Scotian on the 15th of | deal and it was indeed fitting that the y &s the Gym will tead to unite the student 3 oF aes McGill (E
January. The point the Council was| members of both teams congratulated oo ery be Anh. body.isaore- .atrongly, , Mereeves —.by o . Ric ee to McGill (Eng.)
forced to decide was whether or not|him for his fine work. It has been Medicine 16—Freshmen 0 <i ne ree ages . at Dal- holding college dances in the Gym the 4. is J. Beveridge to Toronto
this was brought up merely through|a long, long time since such an event | paaete er ye ‘ ee ee pani Hrobleuainavcidct. ; os pes edn *
| antagonism on the part of the two| has happened hereabouts. ee See eee, Sonera vee. oe ea: fos | mn “"| Bill Napier, Engineering Student: Sip aly ayy vie i aa
bedies or whether it represented an when they took the Frosh by the score | rs a me ae aie tee ie Dances are just like newspaper mat- Dalhousie. ;
honest attempt on the part of the of 16-0. The more experienced Meds gene Jur fighting Tigers are at erial it is quality that counts and 6. G. R. A. Coffin to Queen’s
potential billionaires to give the stu- controlled the play, and only hard ee " Petes deal, not quantity. For that reason | favor (Arts). ;
dents of Dalhousie cheaper and better Cubs Play Draw tackling by the yearling’s backfield contrite A. — eagiy or te Ste hetal dances raMies than” a 7. G, R. K. (Digby) Lynch to
dances, After arguing for the better mane ate, fies cones ~ Pne Magen eatuate oF pie a ee ane host of smaller activities in the B.C. ; 3
part of two hours the Council decided} Dalhousie Cubs and St. Mary’s| ‘YS Were made by Gosse, Miller, the are oe they achieved. Sens Gymnasium. 8. Miss Pearl Levine to: Toronto,
to hold the discussion over until the] battled to a scoreless tie in an Inter-| MacKenzie and McNeil, Bob MacLel-| that protest was Oe ere aN Ke: 9. Miss Barbara Bennett to Tor:
; next meeting. In the meantime the| mediate Rugby League fixture at lan making the two converts. Gordon | It aaor thing - be a good cde A ade ie a esd) onto. .
two representatives will attempt to|/Studley on Saturday afternoon. The aad Hatfield played well for the losers, a a, p ta f tee ey the f Aesth.
come to some agreement over the|game was closely contested at all| While Miller and MacLellan were the : SY SOROS OF OE SREaTEaty AneDs See Cinderella 10. Miss V. Guy to McGill.
beatiad/ Aséetend: slowed St! Mary's: to be pick of the Meds. re Fe ae Le eae rs tte 11. Miss Lois Phillips to’ Toronto.
ft —_——o——_~_ a‘much improved team: since their Commerce-Engineers 3—Law 0 petty ‘‘cigar question’ but on a list of Nearly 100% of the Frosh have 12. || Mies Marion Herriot to. Quest ¢.

 

door.

 

at, Rogers, McRea, Murray.

 

present — Alex Nickerson.

with ‘‘Cinderella.’”’ | :

 

 
  
    

  

 
 
 

  

  
  
  
   

  
  

  

ioe
oe Ss ¥

 
    
   
 

_  _brance.

Founded 1869. ‘The Oldest College Paper in America.”’

GAZETTE STAFF.

Editors.

4 D. CREASE, B.A. I. M. MacKEIGAN, M.A.
Ph, BS737 Ph. B24386
Associales.

_ John Fisher Edward Arab, B.A.

Edward S. MacLatchy, B.A. Earie Fraser, B.A.
Elizabeth Pearson P, S. Macnutt
Geo. H. Murphy, B.A. Layton Ferguson
Wes Editor. Sports Editor.
ROLAND HURST S. EDGAR STEWART
Ph. B3427 | Ph. B5580
ca. f Associates.
Elwyn Hughes L. A. Landreyille, B.A.
. Archie B. MacKenzie Roy Gold
L. A. Kitz Tobias Beeber Jack Reynolds

Assisiant Business Manager.

R. L. ARMSTRONG
Phone B 5700

Business Manager.

GORDON K. DALEY

Ph. B5700
Proof Editor

CHARLES ROBERTS

 

 

A GREATER DUTY THAN REMEMBRANCE

We welcome again the annual respite from the trivial things
of daily care, a day which we may set apart in honour of those who
died for us in the Great War. Armistice Day is a day which
forces us to give some sober thought to the question—Whither
are we drifting?

The memory of their self-sacrifice forces us to a realization of
the sluggishness of our efforts to fulfil the trust passed on by them.
The memory of their sufferings draws forth enriched sympathies
‘for the sufferings and privations of those in need. The memory
of their courage arouses renewed courage to face the problems
before us.

There is, however, a higher and a greater duty than rememToday when wars and rumours of war alarm us, we
must ask ourselves whether we have indeed held high the torch

m thrown to us by the failing hands of those we honour.

   
 

_ the living and the generations yet to come.

Their sacrifice is of no avail if we fail to do our duty towards
They died that it

might never be again; that the war in which they fought might

  
 
  
  
  
   
    
  
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
   
    
    
  
 
 
     
   

be the » ‘war

é

=f

been drawn up by a zealous executive.

pie ;

ar to end wars’. -Our duty then it is to ensure that
ren War was s indeed the last war in which Canadians

<

eer:

i

m Bigot break faith! Ghia ever a Syarersaddendd Europe
Canada must remain at peace. This is no idle dream

PRUE > foolish idealist but the firm conviction of many men throughmene our land. Let it be ours also.

: - ‘Thus we come to remember them—to meditate as well as to
mourn. Join resolution withremembrance, a resolution that their
_last wish shall be fulfilled—the creation of a better and an everpeaceful Canada.

A REPRESENTATIVE SODALES

- We appreciate ‘ Lionceau’s’”’ views with regard to thescarcity
of debaters at the trials held to choose Dalhousie teams. Here
is a society which can give benefit of an incalculable value to every
student in the University whether he be doctor, lawyer, dentist,
teacher, engineer, or business man. Too much cannot be said
of the art of speaking for a man’s stock indeed rises high if he be
a good speaker no matter in what field he holds forth. The University is the training ground and here at Dalhousie we have an
excellent debating society—in fact the only impetus it needs is
the students to support it. An extensive debating schedule has
There are debates for
everyone—interfaculty, radio, interclass, intercollegiate. If you
have never debated before start in by attempting the interclass

or interfaculty debates and it won’t be long before you are repre
senting the college. The executive want a more representative
turnout for the trials—the Society is not a clique—it is the students
themselves who are making it a clique. Competent judges assure
everyone of a square deal. Come on out at the next trials to
make Sodales what it really is—a society representative of Dal
housie.
MONTREAL MORONS

If there is one element in this country that we do not need
or want it is that of which the students of the University of Montreal are a part. If ever we were to drop our attitude that free
speech is something sacred we would certainly have to advocate
the complete suppression of the rioting group of Montreal students.
As it is, we admit that they are free to say whatever they like but
certainly no law or decent sentiment in this country condones
rule by the mob such as has been going on in Montreal the last
few weeks.

Official statements from the University of Montreal speak
of a preference for teaching ’’what to think”’ instead of the generally
accepted purpose of education, that of teaching ‘how to think”.
If rioting, throwing stones at the windows of the McGill Union,
beating up professors, and other hooliganism is. an example of
this type of education, if this is what they are taught to think,
then surely the University of Montreal’s method of teaching is
not the Canadian way, certainly it is not a profitable way.

; —The Varsity.
FIGHTING SPIRIT

a 2 te is findesd strange just what fighting spirit can do, In
this particular instance it brought back from the brink of' obscurity
a Gold and Black football team that refused to give up and in
their next meeting amazed experts by defeating their conquerors.
_ We congratulate the team for their never-say-die spirit and only
hope that our basketball and hockey teams will emulate their

eir best game’? and not ‘did the team win’?

> iy?
ee She a» =a
4 To, e ~ ae
BP Sal rie ty Fo" ;
a raps . 2

  

 

 

  
 

——
- —_

You probably didn’t notice it, but
our column was missing last week.
It was our own fault, in a way, but
we wish to go on record as publicly
protesting against the tyrannical attitude that the editors have seen fit to
adopt concerning late copy. They
know as well as we do that all great
literary geniuses are eccentric. To be
ganged by a howling, maniacal mob,
consisting of two editors ahd an associate, merely because copy is delayed
for a few hours, is both unnecessary
and undignified. Anyhow we managed
to nip in a quick resignation before we

were fired. That fooled them. Or
did it? Anyhow the column’s back
'"Nuff said.

again for one more issue.

We have always had a secret desire
to take a crack at poetry. The only
thing that seemed to be lacking was
we obtained
that one night last week. And so
for

the inspiration. Well,
with apologies to Lord Byron,
what amounts to practical plagiarism,

we present:
The Law Ball

There was a sound of revelry by night;

For lawyers drunk and true had gathered then—

A crowd that woozed and weaved ’neath
misty light

A crowd that drank and danced—and
drank again.

Three hundred heads swam happily;

and when

Romance arose in a voluptuous swell
Soft eyes looked up with ever-rising yen
And all was merry—skip the marriage

bell!

Yes! Hush! Hark! The Ball is on! God

save our little Nell!

This ‘‘Congrats-Critiques” lad with
his smugly self-complacent attitude
ought to be a little more careful of his
facts before he starts printing downsuch as appeared in his

right libel,
column last week, when he accused
Wally Wright and his initiation committee of profiting ‘‘to the extent of
$37.01 at the expense of this year’s
Freshman Class’. As a matter of
fact this money was made, through
good business management, at the
Freshie-Soph dance. We would advise
Wally to sue for defamatory libel, and
at the same time congratulate him
on his financial genius at being able
to make money on one of the worst
dances in Dal’s history.

Incidentally, ‘“Congrats-Critiques”
accused us of making uncomplimentary
remarks about the sorority rushing
system at Dal. We did nothing of
the sort, as we highly approve of their
system, and one of our fondest wishes
would be to see the fraternitjes adopt
it. What we.do disapprove of is the
general sorority attitude around Dal.
Just what, besides dances, do they
contribute to the college girl's life
around here? The sophettes seem to
have caught onto the idea, as we understand that only five out of a rather
large eligible list have pledged this
year,

It seems that the News Editor was
gathering campus opinions for publication on the subject “What's wrong with
the Gazette, and how would you correct
it?”” One student, in all seriousness,
stated that there were too many
columns, and too few items on general
college news, and suggested that it
was up to the News Editor to get
busy, and supply a little of the same.
So the News Editor got huffy, and
wasted space with the entirely personal,
useless opinions of two of his fraternity
brothers (both of whom stated that
they never read the paper) instead of
using an honest constructive criticism
which happened to reflect against
himself. And the editorial of the
same week boasted of its impartial
policy.

Oo ——
Soft Answer.
“You were late coming home. ]

heard the clock strike two.’
“No, darling, it was about to strike

mt efforts. The Dalhousie attitude should be ‘did the team play|eleven, but I stopped it in case itl

iste ped you,’

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

      
   
   
     
     
         
       
       
         
       
     
    

 
   
       
     
 

 

 

Gordon Thompson, Senior President
of Arts and Science and successful
holder of many offices.

Born and educated in Halifax, he
came to Dalhousie from Bloomfield
High School with a reputation for
sincerity, dependability and hard work.
Nor has that reputation proved unmerited during his career at College.

For three years he has been President
of Class ’87 and during that time
represented them on the Students
Council for two successive terms.
Gordie has also found time to be a
valuable member of the D. A. A. C.
Managing Committee and Secretary
of the Students-Senate Gymnasium
Committee since its formation.

Nor did his studies suffer at the

   

expense of executive duties for in
1985 Gordon won a Commercial
Scholarship in the Department of
Commerce.

This year as graduation approaches
his thoughts are directed more to his
studies, but as N. F. C. U. S. Representative, Chairman of the.» Band
Committee, member of the Managing
Committee and Senior Class President,
he has certainly not retired from
“public life’.

It has always been remarkable to
his fellow-students how one person

    
   
       
   
 

   

oe acerca 3's |

   

Italo-German Diplomatic
Stratagem

   
   
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   

“Germany and Italy agree on European policies” screams the daily press
on the return of Count Ciano, Mussolini’s travelling Son-in-law, from his
recent visit to Germany. Why should
two ambitious dictators seek such
agreements? Let us seek the reasons,

It is an astute move on the part of
the Nazis to win Italian support in
order to stalemate France and thus
thwart the Franco-Russian alliance.
(In two previous articles your correspondent dealt with Hitler’s success
in this respect in Central Europe,
Spain and _ Belgium). Immediately
after the war France started a policy
of security. The dominant note of
this security was to encircle Germany
in a ring of steel. Germany crippled
by the War and emasculated by Versailles was powerless to resist the
rising ring.

The weak Republican Government
of Germany was friendly to Russia
and thus delayed the completion of
France’s policy. But a more nationalistic Germany grew hostile to Communism and thus France saw her
chance to form another Franco-Russian alliance. France became the patron of the smaller powers, she advanced
their claims and her financiers made
the loans. Austria, Poland, Czechslovakia and the other members of
the Little Entente pulled through the
War aftermath with the help of wealthy |
France. The Diplomatic star of France
was high in the firmament, but the |
events of the last few years like the
pull of gravity have brought it down

Hitler’s great astuteness has been
largely responsible for the French
decline. He felt sure that France
would think twice before plunging
herself and Europe into War, so he
quite boldly he threw off the yoke of
Versailles. France was stunned and
grave warnings came from the Quai
D’Orsay but Versailles is still broken.

As the German people rallied behind
him Hitler tried another stunt. When
France allied with Russia Hitler marched into the demilitarized Rhineland.
Statesmen predicted the gravest hour
in history, but Hitler knew the psychology of France and England—they
would not take the responsibility of
war, Furthermore he planned it at
a time when France and England were
debating the aggression of Mussolini.
A diplomat that Hitler! This knocked
Locarno out of the picture and cut
across the Franco-Russian path. What
was the use of all France’s little European Allies if she could not get to them?
The small powers knew and feared
this too,so when Herr Schacht put his
economic propositions to them their
only hope was to swing gradually
to the German camp.

 

But what has this to do with Italy,
one might ask? Another question
will answer it—Why has Mussolini
been so quiet about Hitler’s moves?
Why was Hitler so quiet about Mussoini's adventures in Ethiopia? Does

(Continued on page 4.)

  
   

 

could do so much and yet do it so

efficiently.

Possessing a _ cheerful

housie is proud to call her own.

Dal Med-Journal

During the past week the second
issue of the Dalhousie Med. Journal
rolled off the press, thus marking the
termination of the experimental stage
of this excellent publication.

When the first number
April, it was warmly
by the medical public, and it certainly
deserved the plaudits heaped upon
it by students and outsiders.

The present issue, according to
| Editor-in-Chief Roy Gold, is  continuing its original policy and is even
worthier than the first,

appeared

last welcomed

GORDON THOMPSON

by Prof. R. J. Bean, Dr. Kenneth
Grant, Carl Pearlman, C. B. Stewart,
R. R. Strong, A. S. Horowitz and
George Parsons. The topics are diverse and extremely interesting, not
only to the students but to the entire
medical profession.

This issue well exemplifies the willingness of the students to cooperate,
and it signifies that Dalhousie University Medical School can successfully
maintain a publication which is easily
on a par with those of the larger schools
in the U. S. and Canada.

The editors and staff of the “ Journal’
are to be complimentedon their fine
efforts and endless perseverance.

     
   
 
   
 

disposition
when his Irish temper is not aroused;
and a ready smile for all he meets,
Gordon is one of the most well-known
campus figures, and a man that Dal
It contains
a wealth of material, including articles

Rote De ovember, 6th., 1936

Al riock! Knock!!

Woolly Cows

A recent article in the Chicago
Daily News states that Italian cows,
by personal order from Premier Mussolini, are now producing wool, thereby
establishing the reputation of the
Fascist chief as one who disregards
the sanctions of nature apparently as

successfully as those of European
powers,
Whatever truth is in the above

report, there is no denying that it is
at Jeast symbolic of what is going on
in the world today. The possibilities
of modern science are being exploited
to fullest extent by those rulers who
invoke the ‘survival of the fittest’’
rule with its permeating philosophy,
the doctrine of the inevitability of
war and the triumph of militarism,

The Daily News, however, in commenting on Il Duce’s ‘‘disciplining’’
of Cows concludes thus in a lighter
vein :—

“Wool is an important commodity
to modern European nations—military
uniforms are made from it—and it
must be especially necessary in countries operating under dictators, who
require an abundant supply to be
pulled over the eyes of their subjects.
Rome, it will be recalled was founded
on a diet of wolf’s milk. The descendants of Romulus and Remus may
yet march under triumphal arches,
attired in uniforms of cow’s milk.”’

‘‘Americably’’

In announcing a _ proposed final
settlement of some diplomatic difference
between the United States and Canada,
the Associated Press recently declared:
“The United States and Canada now
have a good neighbour record of more
than one hundred years during which
all disputes between the two nations
have been settled Americably.”” The
Toronto Mail and Empire in commenton. this statement said:—‘A great
many Canadians recalling the Alaska
Boundary, Behring Sea and _ Maine
Boundary Awards will be inclined to
think that the Associated Press has
stumbled upon a very happy euphemism in describing these and other
settlements between the two count
tries.” It is quite true we must
admit that the boundary settlement
and Great Lakes water level agreements between Canada and the United
States have been notoriously in the
American favour, but as yet there
has been no such encroachment as
would justify a British-American discord or war, nor a Canadian fear of
Annexation.

 

WHERE THE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE

 

Compare Our Quality!!!

Compare Our Prices!!:

Compare Our Service!!!

Pri

itt

And then you will know just why Dalhousie Men

Prefer to buy at SHANE’S.

We offer you the best and finest in clothing and furnishings, distinctively styled by the foremost manufacturers of Canada and the British Isles.

We offer you the keenest and peppiest new patterns

in Halifax.

Compare our prices with others (ours will stand com
parison).

Deduct your students’

discount of 10%,

you will be agreeably surprised at the large savings

effected.

 

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

  

 

 

 
   
  
   
 
   
  
    
     
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 

T Callece Cuts

Montreal. Establishing a precedent in student participation, John
Nolan, President of the Students’
Council, turned the first sod last week
on the site of a new residence for men
students at McGill. The Douglas

_ Dormitory, which will be opened in
pe - the fall of 1937, is named after James

Douglas, former governor and honorary
graduate of McGill, who donated a
total of $200,000 towards its erection.

Montreal. Friday night saw two
~ assaults on McGill by a demonstrating
mob composed of University of Montreal students—one in the form of a
parade past the Students’ Union when
rocks were thrown at several students
: assembled on the steps in anticipation
of trouble—the other an attack upon
~ a McGill professor who was assisting
the Spanish delegates to escape to the
_ Windsor station before being beaten.
_. The only meeting where Montrealers
could hear the representatives of the
Spanish Republic was held in the
McGill Union, as another meeting
had been cancelled by the police.
—MeGill Daily.

‘I'm tired of

_ Freshette: this reZo hearsing.”
|: Sate J. C.: ‘‘What’s the matter, ballet
ache?”

Sweet Young Thing: “Could | see
the captain?”
Mate (not hers): ‘He's forward,

miss.”
= ' S. W. T.: “O, I’m not afraid.

a been out with college boys.”

I’ve

Ad quoted in Harvard paper:
WANTED—Capable young Ameriean with college training for milk route
salesmaa; state experience and quali: a. fications; must furnish A-1 references
and large bond.

The English instructor of the University of Toledo announced to his
class: ‘There are four or five themes
here which I am certain were copied.
oa Af the students who turned them in
mi will come to my office to claim them,
there will be no penalty.” Withia an
_ hour after dismissal, sixteen students
; to > claim their themes.

 

 

é Phonetic vomit

Bar Mebaves— Pept they put in jail.
a oF - Prism—Place in which they keep
more soiecx.

ss Orchids—Little children, e. g. “Your

+

: Sa kids may be cute but orchids are

ie - cuter.”
ee Culture—A complicated gashouse
term used in such connections as

“T’ye culture red-handed, you rat!

Literature— Another gashouse term
as in, ‘Literature vest; it’s all covered
with gravy.”

 

London. In order to help students
to fill their programme, the Junior
Prom Committee publishes it beforehand in the Gazette including the
; song title of each dance.— Western
Ontario Gazette.

es

 

Directory of the Spanish Rebellion

Azana: Azanabody seen him around?

& Malaga: You're pulling Malaga.

Mola: Back tooth.

Valencia: Valencia ready yet?
—The Quill.

5 —_——_0-——_
_* Hat Rack.

i. 3 Fond Parent: What does my son
do with his week-end?

The College
By The Sea

In the last issue of the PDaihousie
Review you will find an article entitled “‘Dalhousie College in ‘the Sixties’ which was written by Dr.
J. Audrey Lippincott who is one of
the three oldest living alumni of
Dalhousie, graduating in 1867.

In this interesting article he describes
the college lifeofhis day and paints
excellent pen-portraits of the  professors at that time. For some years
previous to 1863 the college doors
had been closed but in that year
Dalhousie was reborn and from then
on it continued to expand until it has
become the University which we have
today. The principal, or president
as he would now be called, was Rev.
Dr. James Ross, who lectured on
Logic and Political economy.

It appears that the attitude of the
students to their professors and classes
was somewhat different than that of
most students today. For instance
the author says ‘‘Professor Lyall
(Metaphysics and Moral Philosophy)
made these subjects interesting by
his delightful exposition. The effect
was heightened by a personal charm
into which entered an almost abnormal self-effacement and the transparent innocence of a pure mind.
His absorption in his subject sometimes led him into neglecting the
clock. On one occasion after he had
exceeded by a few minutes his allotted
hour, we signalled to each other to
let him go on. When two hours had
elapsed and dusk was closing ia, one
of the hungrier members of the class
began to shuffle with his feet. The
professor, much embarrassed, offered
profuse apologies, and of course we
gave him an ovation,”

Of Professor Charles Macdonald,
who taught Mathematics, he says:
“He was an ideal teacher, inspiring

his pupils with somewhat of his own
enthusiasm, and sometimes got. remarkable results. It was little wonder,
then, that he was very popular; but
we would never have dreamed of
speaking of him as ‘Charlie’. Respect
for our elders in that archaic age was
so deeply ingrained as to preclude
such familiarities. We know better
now.”

In spite sj the lack of modern conveniences such as the motorcar, electric
lights, and radio, the author assures
us that the students were surprisingly
happy but would have been more so
ifthey had had the means of cultivating their bodies as well as their minds
“For exercise we were limited to a
walk round the Point and we longed
for a gymnasium.”

At the first convocation 1864,
after Sir William Young, the President
of the board of governors, had delivered
an eloquent address, a Rev. Mr.
Grant jumped to his feet and cried,
“Sir William has made a fine speech,
but I am going to make a better one,
I give a hundred dollars to start a
College Library.”’ Other subscriptions
followed and this was the beginning
of our Macdonald Library.

It appears that the students at that
time took a great deal of. interest in
public questions, especially because
at that time the “pros” and ‘‘cons”’
of Confederation were being argued.
It was arranged that the great orator,
Joseph Howe should give a series of
addresses to the students, but he
only gave one lecture and no more.
The reason suggested was, ‘‘that,
when he began to speak, we whipped
out our notebooks as we were accustomed to do, and this gesture was
too much for the orator who naturally
expected to see our eyes fixed on him,
like the ‘great bright eye’ in the

in

The Dean: Judging by his work) 4, -j¢n¢ Mariner.”

lately, I think he merely hangs his
’ hat on it.

i

Ai
BS

(Contiaued on page 4) |

For Your

Musical Entertainment

Select Your Music at

PHINNEY’S

where you will find

“A COMPLETE
MUSICAL SERVICE”’

456-460 Barrington St.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

The conferences of various social
service groups and religious synods
throughout the land are noted for the
unanimous passing of such resolutions
as: ‘Resolved that this Synod approves
stricter governmental regulations as
to thesale of intoxicants.’’ ‘“‘Resolved
that the Gaming Laws ef this Province
be made more stringent.’’ ‘Resolved
that the Lord’s Day Alliance Act be
amended so as to prohibit the sale on
the Sabbath of anything except bread
and milk and that this act be more
strenuously enforced.” The clergymen carried away by their zeal little
realize what a damaging indictment
the passing of the above resolutions
are to their
tions. They

religious organizathey
that

ex
own
would realize, if

thought of the matter all

by passing such resolutions they
pressly admit that the churches have
failed their that they as
clergymen have abjectly failed
their mission,

at

in purpose,

in

They forget the strong line of demarcation between religious inducement and governmental coercion.
Whereas the purpose of religion
to appeal to a man’s conscience,
inculcate in him a sincere belief
moral principals so that he will not
require a policeman to force him to be
temperant or to force him to observe
the Sabbath pain being incarcerated, because if religion has
accomplished its purpose he could be
simply left to obey the dictates of
his own conscience in these matters.
On the other hand the function of
government is to decide that certain
principles are for the benefit of the
country and then to enforce them by
providing penalties and sanctions. So
when clergymen are forced to call on
the governmental police forces
execute their principles they have
ceased to be clergymen and have become policemen. The logical and
necessary conclusion from the passing
of the above resolutions is ‘Resolved
that the churches be closed, the
ministers returned to industry where
they can be of some use to the community and the enforcement of moral
principles be left to the executive
powers of the government.”

is
to
in

on of

to

One principal that modern democratic countries could profitably borrow
from Nazis is the new German conception of the position of capital and
labour in the state. The Nazi ideal
is that every citizen be he capitalist or
labourer is first and foremost a German
and as such his primary duty is to

\

|

0) ap, eee
| QUITS TET

NE ee
—=| =

%

CETTE a
—=— V

—_
— see

Nmutiieeen!

 

contribute to the welfare of the state.
His own material welfare is secondary
to and must be sacrificed for if necessary the sacred duty he owes to the
“folk”. The worker does not work
because of the material benefits to be
acquired but in order to hereby make
his contribution to the state. Similarly
the owner of industry not run
it for his own private welfare but
must conduct it as a state institution.
He must exercise the economic power
he possesses as if he were a trustee
and the state the beneficiary. When
he allows his own selfish interests to
interfere with the general welfare he
is guilty of a breach of a sacred trust
and liable to heavy penalties.

The above concept gives to labour
a new

must

and position of honor
It turns capital from an
instrument of exploitation to an agency
for the general welfare of the German

dignity
in society.

people.

The leading educationalists and
clergymen, in their strenuous etforts
to inculcate ideals into youth, little

realize with what a dangerous instrument they are dealing. Probably the
greatest crimes in history were committed not so much by men who were
actuated by evil motives but by men
who were carried away by their ideals,
by men whose ideals had become an
obsession to them. The persecutions
could be perpetrated by
whose had transcended
natural human feelings of pity
Bonaparte could

men
their

only
ideals
and
compassion. sacrifice the lives of thousands of his fellow
without
because

countrymen qualms of
conscience
desire for French glory.
nonchalantly the calling
for the death of thousands of Russian
capitalists because of his sincere convictions the Communist ideals,
Hitler’s idealistic desire for an Aryan
race was so great that the lives and
happiness of the most progressive and
cultured element German state
were of no consideration in the ruthless
striving to attain the new ideal.

any
of his fanatical
Stalin could

sign order

of

in

eee itis ere ee

The Bachelor’s Ballad.

Say it with flowers............
Say it with sweets...

Say it with kisses............
Say it with eats_.._.......
Say it with jewelry
Say it with drink
But whatever you do eS
Don’t say it with ink...

STUDENT’S
SPECIAL
MEMBERSHIP

Y.M.C.A.
$5.00

Swimming pool open daily 10 a.m. to 10.30 p.m.

See DOUG CREASE
Phone B 5737

A Message to College Men

Whether buying a life

insurance

policy as a provision for the future,

or contemplating the selling of life

insurance as a profession, you would

do well to consider the outstanding

sixty-four year record of The Mutual

Life of Canada.

Communicate with

our nearest Branch Manager or our

Home Office.

Mutual Life Assurance Company
OF CANADA.

HOME OFFICE—WATERLOO, ONT.
ESTABLISHED 1869.

 

   
 
   
      
      
    
     

 

 

Page Three

Well. and
midi h ae ieer: is

 

Vila.
CAPORALS

‘The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.~<ancet

 

CAPITOL

TODAY -SAT. - MON.

CLARK MARION
GABLE DAVIES

tn

“CAIN and MABEL”

Coming

To Town )

 

     
 

REFRESHING DRINKS

 

 

DAINTY LUNCHES
TUES.—WED.—THURS.

RUTH WALTER
CHATTERTON HUSTON

ih

“DODSWORTH”

    

 

| The Green Lantern

 

Christmas Cards

It sounds out of season,
but actually it is not a bit
too early for Fraternities and
other College groups to place
their orders for Christmas

Cards.

 

DRUGS

   
 
 

CHOCOLATES

  

   
 
 
 
  

 

Birks assortment this year
is bigger and better than
ever—amazing values.

 

| FOUNTAIN

 

 

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

  

Barrington St.

WHEN YOU ARE
SUBSTITUTE

PLAYER ON THE
RUGBY TEAM 
 

-AND YOUVE JUST HEARD THAT THE
PLAYER YOU ARE CALLED UPON
TO REPLACE HAS BEEN CARRIED OFF
WITH A SPRAINED KNEE, A CRACKED
RIB ANDA FACE FULL OF MUD 
DONT WORRY
 
    
   
     

-_~
vee wre
Seen

_——t

i er nadethe from ‘the storm of protests’
oy after last week’s issue of the Gazette
Ve the” odd student takes the trouble to
ee ee y proud of the fact that he has
oe if - finally ‘written something which has
. a! caused comment on the campus. It
} has been learned further that certain
F students are indignant and quite
F aehicouly over the item we published
concerning the ‘profit made by the
- Sophmore Class in the sale of regalia.
However we admit our mistake and
ask forgiveness. The truth of the
situation is that the much talked of
$37.01 which was amassed by the lordly

_ Soph’s represented the profit of the
- Freshie-Soph dance, So to President
1 ‘Wallace Wright and his executive
he we say, Beg Pardon, Sir, and in conao nection with the incident we wish
- to make it known that this column
is not out to get anyone we are only

i attempting to portray the situation
mae, as we see it and we admit in this
ss instanee we made too hurried a glance.
|  —._ The first congratulation to be handed
|. out this week goes to the Student's

re Council for the effort they are making
é: towards making next Saturday a real
Dalhousie day. Last year mainly
through the efforts of the Glee Club,
which in our opinion is the most
; enterprising society on the campus,
rs - Dalhousie was very well represented
we at Acadia and every one had a mighty
fine time. If the train goes don’t
miss the opportunity. Cautions are
in order however as last year Landre% ville ate so many apples he was sick
Fc for a week after.
a Congratulations to those responsible
a for the success of the Law Ball. Characterized by a more subdued tone
Are than has been evident on previous
occasions the affair was most enjoyable.
Perhaps the stage show was not as

ly

  
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

S43 Bae! sty are putting forth to stage a
iat

BR aes advertised but the affair as a whole

a “2 was a credit to Dalhousie

oy | Readers of the column we feel will

ete be overwhelmed by the way we are
7} handing out the congrats this week.
: oF To tell the truth things have proceeded

= so favorably in the past week there
a at s is little room for criticism.

Bie ) Take the effort the DeltaGamma

Most commendable indeed,
is, you are to- be congratulated
y on this move. |

contribution though certainly no
masterpiece was very, very amusing.
It supplied the Grade 8 material
for the University publication. So
Egbert though yeur criticism was
not the best and your wit not the
sharpest, nevertheless we feel certain
you contributed your own little bit
so here’s to you and we'd like to see you
back.
We understand that the various
undergrad classes at Studley plan
to hold a joint Class party in the
Studley Gymnasium. Now just who
had the brain wave we do not know
but certainly someone is to be con- gratulated. If there is one thing
this college has a surplus of it is dances
and this move on the part of the different classes is to be commended.

oO

Frat Patter

Hallowe'en parties were extremely
successful at Sigma Chi, Phi Kapp
and Phi Rho.

At Phi Rho not even the electrically
charged ‘“‘chaperone’”’ could shock Fran
Drunmie.

Sigma Chi’s seem to have
B9746 off their calling list.

As usual the Phi Kapp house was
the scene of a very quietand dignified
function,

The editor of one of N. S’s. daily
newspapers had better watch out—
now’s the time for old loves to change
and it looks like ‘‘Redheads on Parade’’.
Things we would like to know—
Which does Helen Connor prefer?
Sigma Chi or Phi Kapp parties?

Was everything “jake’’ when Smitty

left

Rho party?
Do the Phi Delts need the Jost
party next May?

, Why is a King’s party a_ bigger
attraction than a Sigma Chi party to
Fran Martell?

na - Beware of the man who says he
“a _ loves his fellow man, and expects
i ce 5 - make a living at it.

“

 

read this column and the writer feels]

   
 
   
   
   
   
    
  

nee for the benefit of the Community |

ve the first issue of ke Gazette toa
_ the present term we noticed a column
under the heading EGBERT. This

and Hazen were driven to the Phi Enwed ia reverence.

Reade nuptials as an excuse for a big F

Oa a eee ee ee fee
:

ee te et ee Pap oe nn

Tc i a

‘Balatinent
(Continued from page 2)

‘this not smell of collusion? Italy is

now the guardian of the Mediterranean
and friendliness with Germany would

mean much in any future conflict.

France’s army movements across Central Europe are cut as we saw above
and now the Mediterranean is blocked.
Germany wants colonies too. She
didn’t oppose Mussolini when he
grabbed his in Africa, The Dictators
can be reciprocally respectful when it
touches their own interests.

Italy and German have interests
in Spain also. A Fascist Government
is rising there, which as seen in a
previous article, could very easily
frustrate the transport of French
African troops. France needs those
troops to fight the numerically and
militarily superior Germans. Also a
Fascist Spain friendly to these Dictator
Countries could be very embarrassing
to France.

The broken Locarno Treaty although it envisaged the possibility of
its signatories going to war with one

the strongest link in the chain of steel
about Germany. France has_ been
pining for a new Locarno. Her plea
fell on mute ears. Belgium left her
flat. Now Europe’s tricksters have the
stage and Italy and Germany offer a
Franco-German non-aggression pact
with Britain and Italy promisingto
attack the aggressor.

The object seems to be France’s

separation from the Soviet. For if
France attacked Germany she would
have the threat of Mussolini’s “eight
million swords’’ on one side and
Britain’s might on the other. If the
Franco-Russian alliance still holds and
Russia attacks Germany then France
technically would come to her aid and
attack Germany. But with this proposed Locarno France would run the
risk of fighting Britain and Italy as
well. If France wants a new Locarno
she must scrap the Russian alliance.
Already it has cost her the loss of
Belgium, the disrupture of Versailles,
the militarization of the Rhineland
and the gradual coolness of Poland,
Czechoslovakia and other smaller powers.
It is astute diplomacy on the part
of Europe’s Dictators to combine for
the benefit of each to smash the effectiveness of France’s Russian policy
and thus to open up a new route in
Europe’s dangerous political sea. Both
these Fascist powers are hungry and
ambitious—Britain, you have much
that they want—it is a time for calm
and long term thinking. Perhaps it
would be better reasonably to acquiesce
than maintain all we have.

 

Law Ball Quiet

(Continued from page 1)

Contrary to the advice of one of his
staff, one high and almighty official
of the Gazette was seen in the company of ‘the lady in red’, To him we
say be original, shame to you for
following in the footsteps of Dillinger.

Putting the stage show aside, and
truthfully we feel it might just as
well have been left aside, the most
sparkling exhibition of the evening
was provided by Dan Harvey and
partner, After the dance your writer
had the good fortune to hear the
following remark made by a prominent
freshette, ‘‘It’s funny, I thought Fred
Astaire was shorter than that.’’ No
offense, MacNutt.

Definite evidence of the popular
past-time of cradle snatching was
also to be observed. Particularly are
certain football heroes to be criticized
for their activities along this line,

Then again there were the fraternity
boys. The Sigma Chi’s acting like
school children in the dining hall
much to the consternation of some
of their older and wiser member's.

Perhaps the most awe _ inspiring
scene of the whole evening however
was provided by the Phi Delt’s. As
Jerry Naugler and his orchestra rendered the ever popular ballad ‘The
Sweetheart of Sigma Chi’ the Phi’s
stood in the middle of the floor heads
That, dear readers, was sheer drama.

Judging from class attendance on
riday morning the big affair had
its after effects. We understand in
English 2 less than half the class were
present. It has also been learned
from a reljable source that Mason
Johnston’s seat was vacant.

Gh

A man’s social success depends

to “upon his ability to flatter every woman
in a different way.

~~

eo ile®
ate eo

another, was regarded by France aS against the winners of the other divi
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

eaork Reviews

The Dalhousie Tigers will take the
field against Acadia at Wolfville tomorrow with renewed’ hope. Their
protest of the game two weeks ago
agaiast Wanderers has finally been
allowed. Wanderers, however, still
hold the league leadership by virtue
of their double win over Acadia,
whereas the Tigers have taken the
Axemen into camp only once with
tomorrow’s contest being the second
meeting between the twe tears. The
Tigers must win tomorrow to stay in
the running. Should they draw with
Acadia they will have to win from
Wa.aderers in the replay te tie for
the ieadership of the league and make
a playoff aecessary. The replay of
the protested game will take place at
Redland next Wednesday.

The chances of the Cubs to annex
the Intermediate League title also
seem excellent and the prospects for
a double win are brighter this year
than for some time. A win for them
tomorrow at Wolfville will clinch
their division for them and_ give
them the right to play off for the title

sion. All who go to Wolfville should
be treated to a good exhibition of football when the Axemen try to save
themselves from a complete  whitewashing and the Tigers strive for
the points that will prove a big
factor in determining whether or not
the-elusive City League Championship
will come back to the gold and black
after so long an absence.

Basketball and hockey are both
back again. Both squads started practice last Tuesday and there were good
turnouts in view of the fact that football is not yet over. Although there
is a wealth of material both have their
troubles. All the players on_ last
year’s hockey squad are back with
the exception of the two goalies and
to date no very promising contender
has appeared. The hoop team, oa
the other hand, is worrying about
the noticeable lack of tall men.

 

College By The Sea

_ (Continued from page 3.)

Two students, because of their
superior — preliminary training were
able to graduate in 1866. The author's
class of 1867 was composed of nine
men, three of whom are still living.
Four of these became ministers, one
a member of the Supreme Court of
Canada, one a lawyer, one a_bookseller, and one a teacher, while the
author himself is a physician at present
residing in Mentone, France.

After reading Dr, Lippincott’s interesting article we realise that Dalhousie was not always as large as it
now is, nor were there so many fields
of learning from which to. choose.
But since it is due to the efforts of
previous Dalhousians that we have
the opportunities which exist today
it is interesting to see just how our
college grew to the University of 1936.
Although at different times historical
sketches have been published and a
brief outline of the history of the
college is given in the calendar, yet
most readers of the Gazette are probably
unfamiliar with the origin and development of Dalhousie. For this reason
the Gazette proposes to publish a
series of outlines describing the growth
of our college.

In the Spring of 1886 the Alumni
decided to offer a prize of Fifty Dollars
for the best history of their Alma
Mater. This prize was won by George
Patterson, M. A. (now Judge Patterson
of New Glasgow) who prepared an
interesting essay which may be found
in the Library. ,In 1918, at the time
of the Centennial Celebrating, Dr. A.
Stanley MacKenzie published an historical sketch entitled ‘One Hundred
Years of Dalhousie’. It is chiefly
to these two little books that we shall
go for our material.

The latest Popular Music.
The latest Victor Records.
All Popular Magazines.

All Musical Instruments.
Radios in best makes.
Lending Library of latest

Fiction.
Cards for every occasion.

Attractive Novelties for
Souvenirs.

McDonald Music Co.

393 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

DRUGS
TOILET ARTICLES
CONFECTIONERY
FOUNTAIN

FADER’S

Pharmacy
29 COBURG RD.

 

 

THOMAS WALLAGE

SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“Tf You Want to See Well See
Wallace”

 

24 HOUR SERVICE

B7555 B9727

25c

WADE BROS, TAXI

COR. SALTER AND
GRANVILLE STS.

1 BLOCK FROM
BARRINGTON ST.

 

CASINO

Saturday—Mon.—Tuesday

“CHARLIE
CHAN

AT THE

RACETRACK”

STARRING

WARNER OLAND

 

SIMPSON’S Community
SING SONG
every TUESDAY NIGHT at 9

 

November 6th, 1986

 

Patronize Our Advertisers

 

 

~

Insist on getting

A. PUBLICOVER

2 SHOPS
LORD NELSON HOTEL

Donovan’s Beverages

 

 

including
Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice

and

23 SPRING GARDEN RD.
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B 6821
| SME, SSN Oe,

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at

23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

For BETTER LEATHER GOODS

See

KELLYS LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

Established 1876 Phone B 6962

 

    
    
    

When You Need
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

better SERVICE VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

You get and

at

 
 
  
       
    
      
     

  

HALF SOLES 60c.
RUBBER HEELS 25c.
FULL SYLES 1.25.

All Materials and Work
manship guaranteed.

WE CALL AND.
DELIVER

EMPIRE SHOE REBUILDERS

430 BARRINGTON STREET.

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

SPECIAL RATES TO

STUDENTS

18 SPRING GARDEN RD.

l SEE OUR PICTORIAL WORK
FOR GIFTS

24 Hour Finishing Service

 

Phone B 6992

 

 

S-m-o-o-t-h, mild—
and throat-easy

Buckinghz

CIGARETTES

 

  
 
 

B73-36

 

 
