      
  
    
  
    
 
 

he;
4

ry

:
t
f
:

ila
?

a

>

 

ye
Li
I
?. a
Aion ha

be
.
| ly
4
ie,

a

   

t

az i * His i".

TERCOLLEGIATE BOXERS MEET IN GYMNASIUM TUESDAY

 

|
|
i
ft
f
a

Everybody
Out!

 

  
   
  

Oaectte

BY THE SEA”’

Annual

D. A. A.C.

Meeting
Tomorrow

at 12

 

 

 

VOL, LXVII.

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 15th, 1937

No. 20

 

 

Dalhousians Honour Great
Benefactor On Thursday

The Munro Day Committee has
lined up an excellent program for
March 18, (Thursday), to honour a
great benefactor, George Munro. The
battle for supremacy—for the Munro

_ Day Shield—between Forrest and Stud
~ ley; acrobats and bar-men; chasers of
birds; memories of sword-flashing gall
‘ ants; fisticuffs; girls’ basketball are

but a prelude to a delightful tea dance—
short, snappy and scintillating speeches, introductions, and presentation of
awards and then winding up a great
day a sing song, the Glee Club and
then a dance,

THE PROGRAM,—

8.00 Softball. Studley vs Forrest.
(Munro Day Shield) (3 innings)

3.25 Basketball. Studley vs Forrest.
(Munro Day Shield)
3.45 Gymnastic Display.
4,00 Badminton—Mixed Doubles.
4.10 Fencing—One Bout.
4,15 Boxing.
| 4.22 Basketball. Alumnae vs
Ft) Co-Eds. _
437 Indoor Hockey. Studley vs
Forrest.
¢ (Munro Day Shield)
5.00 Tea Dance.
7.00 Intermission.
7.30 Call to Order. Chairman
(Gordon Lea).
7.31 President of University.
7.41 Introducing New Council of
Students.
9.46 President of New Council.
7.47 Malcolm Honour Award.
7.52 Munro Day Shield.
7.45 President, Council of Students.
8.00 Band.
8.10 Living Statutory.
8.20 Sing Song.
8.35 Gold ‘D’s” Presentation.
8.45 Glee Club.
10.15 Dance.

 

Smith Shield

On Tuesday evening, March 9, in
the Moot Court Room, the annual contest for the Smith Shield took place.
This shield, donated by Pres. Sidney
Smith of Manitoba University and
former Dean of Dalhousie Law School
is awarded to the two students who in
the opinion of the judges best present
their cases. Before a packed audience
including severl distinguished visitors,
four prominent members of the graduating law class, Messrs. Arab and Baldwin on the one hand, and Messrs.
Connor and Harvey on the other, argued
and counter-argued in masterly fashion.
Mr, Justice Hall, Attorney General
MacQuarrie, and F, D, Smith, K. C.,
presided as judges.

The case presented was In re Wait,
an extremely difficult one. Chief
among the vitallegal questions arising
were whether or not the goods in the
case were ‘‘ascertained”’ and whether or
not there was an“‘equitable‘assignment.”’

Each speaker showed both a thorough
knowledge of the law and a mastery
of the art of debate. The train of
argument was clear, logical and concise.

At the close, Mr. Justice Hall complimented the contestants on their
splendid showing saying that there
‘never had been a better argued case
in these rooms.’ After lengthy deliberation, the court were of unanimous

opinion that Messrs. Arab and Baldwin
counsel for appellants, had gained their
appeal, and declared Messrs. Arab and
Connor winners of the shield.

Glee Club Hit
Ends Fine Year

The Glee Club are winding up a very
successful year on Munro Day with
their presentation of “Leave It to
Smith,” a P. G. Wodehouse story
adapted to the stage by Ian Hay. The
play is in the traditional Wodehouse
manner burlesquing one well known
phase of English life and is well suited

to the talents of the Glee Club. The
clever production was directed by
Mr. - Geoffrey Marshall, ably  as
sisted by the large cast consisting of
Marg Drummie, Jack Arnell, Virginia
Piers, Bob Marsh, Evelyn Embree,
Steve Macnutt, Phil Stein, Winnie
Flynn, Margaret Pue-Gilchrist, Joyce
Sircom, Mae Morrell, Bill Stevens,
Margaret Lantz, Ray Wallace, Doug
McKeen, Ben Karrell.

Especially for this occasion Jack
Dacey, Jack Dobson and all the lads
backstage have designed a new set
rivalling their “Hay Fever!’ masterpiece. (After a rather slow start this
year, the stage crew has certainly done
some good work.)

Between the acts on Munro Day, the
audience will be entertained by Dalhousie’s Symphony Orchestra. This
organization—the first for many years
—has received favorable notice and
gives promise of a bright future though
yet in its infancy.

Glee Club ‘‘D’s’”’ will be awarded on
Munro Day and then the Wallace Roy
Executive will officially step down in
favor of Hazen Mitchell and his recently elected groups, who have undertaken the joys and trials of Glee Club
for ’87-'88. Best of luck, Glee Club!

Mt. A. Trimmed

The Co-eds came through with their
second win of the current I[ntercollegiate season when they triumphed
over the Mount Allison girls by a 3929 score. Coming back strong in the
second period the Tigerettes wiped
out three point half-time lead worked
out by their opponents, and went on
to win by a handy five basket margin.
The Mounties had the best of the play
in the opening canto which ended with
a 13-10 score for the New Brunswick
girls. Dalhousie rallied strongly and
led by Joan Anderson swarmed all over
the Allisonsians to take a well earned
victory. Joan Anderson and Margaret
Hall were the big factors in Dal’s triumph by scoring 22 and 13 points respectively.

Dal line-up:

Armstrong, Anderson 22; Hall 18;
Linkletter, Schwartz, 4; Dauphinee,
Douglas, Hartling, Stewart, Woolaver,

Phi Kaps Win

Whatever the truth of the rumours
that Phi Rho Sigma controls student
elections at Dalhousie. it yertainly seems
that they don’t control interfraternity
hockey. Although putting up a game
fight the medicos went down under the
furious onslaught of the Phi Kappa
Pi pucksters last Sunday by a 6-3
score. Dictator Barnhill and Editor
MacKeigan were among the throng of
spectators cheering their respective
teams. Outstanding for Phi Rho were
Beer and Bryant, while DeWolfe,

 

 

Baird, Stanfield and Buckley starred
for Phi Kapp. Hopkirk and Day supplied the comedy element of the game.

|

 

Smith Shield Winners

 

 

HAROLD CONNOR

EDWARD ARAB

 

Dalhousie’s Progress in 1936-37

The end of the year is fast approaching and the time is suitable
for us to take an inventory of ourselves and of the University, to look
back over the way we have come and to observe what progress we have
made. Step by step, Dalhousie has advanced during the past year to
an extent hardly realized by most of us. Enlarged educational opportunities, improved buildings and grounds and a rejuvenation of spirit
in both alumni and student organizations—all these have been elements in our advance.

Senate and administrative officers are to be heartily congratulated for the successful efforts they have made to strengthen Dalhousie’s
position as the greatest academic centre in the Maritimes. In all
faculties our high scholastic standard has been maintained, and
our courses of study have been renovated. ,

Today when so many boys and girls of proven merit cannot afford
a college education, one of the greatest services which a university
can render to society is the provision of scholarships which may aid
some. In this, too, Dalhousie has led the way; during the past year
over thirty-six new scholarships have been created—probably more
than in any year since the time of Munro.

The establishment of the new course in Public Administration
(the first of its kind in Canada) and the affiliated Institute of Public
Affairs, is another event which brands 1936-37 ss one of the most glowing years in Dalhousie’s history. The Extension Lectures given
throughout the Maritimes by members of the faculty have beén continued and expanded, spreading far afield Dalhousie’s name and reputation.

Even in the more mundane field of maintenance of buildings and
grounds many improvements have been made, though there be room
for more. In particular may we mention the start made in lighting
the campus, and renovations made in the law library and the Murray
homestead.

Turning now to wider fields of university activity, we must first
of all mention the fine implementation by|the Senate of the Gazette’s
proposal of a students’ Employment Bureau, which is noted elsewhere
on this page. Another noteworthy event of the year is the awakening
of the Alumni from their long slumber, an awakening which holds
much of promise for the future—strong alumni are the backbone
of any university.

A chronicle of the year’s events would be far from complete without mention of the rejuvenation and re-organization evident in
all student activities. New societies and activities have blossomed
forth and old ones have been given new life—no sphere of student
interest has been left untouched. So obvious are these changes that
we should hardly need to mention such things as—the revision of
the constitution of all student societies, the rebirth of the Arts and
science Society, the establishment of the Daily Bulletin, the students’
Radio Hour, the granting of a lump sum budget to the D. A. A. C.,
the new dramatic society, and the new interest in debating.

As we have seen, great progress has been made in all the manifold phases of interest and activity which make up our ‘‘Dalhousie.”’
As a result of the many advances made during the past year, a new
Dalhousie has arisen, stronger and greater to fufill her mission in
the future.

The achievements of 1936-37 should surely give us all courage
to put our shoulders to the wheel and to make Dalhousie even stronger and greater next year and in the years to come.

  
   
 

 

EMPLOYMENT BUREAU PLANS PASS SENATE

Dalhousie Progresses-
Bureau Boon To Students

McGill Principal |

Speaks At Dal

Value of a university training in public administration for persons entering
government service was stressed Friday
night by A. E. Morgan, principal of
McGill University, in an address delivered under auspices of the Dalhousie
University Institute of Public Affairs.

Speaking on ‘Government and the
Progress of Education,” the McGill
Principal insisted that education of
“the governors and governed’’ must
accompany increased efficiency of the
civil service to prevent bureaucracy
and stagnation of democracy.

“If the governed are apathetic,
bureaucracy will rule,’’ he said. ‘‘The
better the government, the more contented the people will be and the tendency for autocracy will increase. Therein lies the danger of good civil service.”

Principal Morgan suggested ‘‘that
sequence of events is responsible for
existing conditions in Germany.”

Germany

“So great has become the complexity
of civilization that the public has come
to depend more and more on the civil
service for government,’ he said.
Towards that end, education must become increasingly important, he suggested.

The “apprenticeship system”’ of civil
service training was not yet dead,
Principle Morgan said, but he predicted
a full-time training in public administration by universities would be as
necessary as university training in law,
medicine, and engineering before actual
experience in the field was encountered,

University training of civil servants
was bound to be more theoretical and
abstract than the practical training
received by a man in apprenticeship
but it would train those entering the
civil service to do work with a greater
flexibility of mind than now exists.

To that end two types of education
were possible: the “particular” type
with emphasis on such subjects as
economics, history and political science
and the ‘‘general’’ type emphasizing
education in classics or mathematics.

Mathematics.

Increasing importance of civil service,
in government made it necessary for the
best type of men that could be found
to be chosen for the jobs. Personalities,
judgment, incorruptibility were factors
just as important in choice of men as

education and should be taken into
account.”
President Carleton Stanley of

Dalhousie, who acted as chairman of
the meeting and introduced Principal
Morgan, mentioned a course in public
administration that is to be inaugurat
ed at Dalhousie next year.
‘ase nnecetheaeabaion

Junior Prom

Despite the effort of a well known
Dalhousie fraternity the Junior Prom
was a tremendous success.

A grand affair.

Everybody had a swell time. |

Cabaret Style, free supper, dandy
music (Jerry Naugler) and the rest.

Lovely party. Lovely party.

The Juniors did things up in fine
style.

Help Wanted—is the cry of the new
Student Employment Bureau. This
is no fairy phantasy nor of the stuff of
which dreams are made, but a reality.
The passing by the Senate a short time
ago of comprehensive plans making the
employment bureau an effective orgar
marked the culmination and comple.
tion of a proposal set under way last
fall by the Gazette. A rudimentary
bureau was established in January,
but this is now displaced by the Senate
organization which promises much for
the future.

The primary object of the Bureau is
to get jobs for students on graduation,
laying particular emphasis on making
sure that the student will be fit for the
position for which he is recommended
both for his sake, that of his employer,
and for the reputation of the Bureau.
Summer jobs will also be provided, although necessarily to a more limited
extent.

The Deans of Medicine, Law and
Dentistry, will, however, continue ‘to
deal with appointments of graduates in
their respective faculties, although
students in these faculties who wish
temporary summer employment may
apply through the Bureau.

The Executive Committee of the
Bureau will consist of Professor Copp
(in charge of engineering positions),
Professor MacDonald (in charge of
non-technical __ positions), Professor
Fletcher (in charge of teaching posts),
and Professor Douglas (in charge of
geological, mining and forestry positions).

To quote from the Senate report on
the Bureau:

**Registration—all students may
register by filling in an application form
indicating the professor to whom the
Bureau may apply for information.
The Committee with whatever information it collects from these professors
and other sources will grade the applicants according to their aptitude.
Students will be informed of their standng for a particular job if they request
the information.”

Those in charge of this Bureau will
not be just sitting back waiting for
jobs to come to them—but will be
actively going after them. To secure
information relative to both summer
and permanent jobs, the Committee is
approaching as many employers as
possible, Over 7000 form letters, we
understand, have been prepared, and
many have been sent out,

The rest of the work necessary to
make the Bureau a success belongs to
the students who want jobs. Register
at once at Mrs. MacLean’s office
in the Gymnasium! Mere registration of course, is no open sesame <o a
job, if you “‘haven’t got what it takes’’,
The Bureau cannot guarantee you a
job, but it will do its best to help you
find one. Help it!

NOTICE

All persons interested in filling the positions of News Editor
or Sports Editor or any other position on the staff of next year’s

Gazette are requested to apply
to the Editors for 1937-38, Evatt
Merchant, B0254, or Archie MacKenzie, B3824, Members of this
year’s staff are particularly welcome.

 

 
   
   
 

in

Hy

}
‘
5
‘he

=p
a <

“*

a

_ oa
a

7

7

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
     
 
 
 
   

Peal
«* eo '

firmly on her feet.
as the first and greatest of our benefactors.

7 _ h
VO at — {

ee oe pt de f
1) Aepudi 41869. “‘The Oldest College Paper in America.”

Pe :

 

GAZETTE STAFF.

Editors.
I. M. MacKEIGAN, M.A. J. D. CREASE, B.A.
Ph. B-2486 Ph. B-5737
Associales.
John Fisher Edward Arab, B.A.
Edward S. MacLatchy, B.A. P. S. Macnutt
. Elizabeth Pearson Kaye Sircom
Geo. H. Murphy, B.A. Elwyn O. Hughes
. News Editor. Sports Editor.
ROLAND HURST ARCHIE B. MacKENZIE
‘Ph, B-3427 Ph. B-3824
Associales.


L. A. Landreville, B.A.

Roy Gold, B.Sc.
Jack Reynolds

Earle Fraser, B.A.
Arthur Merkel
Peggy Merkel

Assistant Business Manager.

R. L. ARMSTRONG B.A.
Phone B-5700

Business Manager.

GORDON K. DALEY B. Com. ;
Ph. B-5700
Proof Editor
CHARLES A. ROBERTS

ee  ——_e

MUNRO DAY

Dalhousians will gather to honor the memory of Mr. George
Munro, “one of the greatest benefactors that this University has
ever known, on Thursday, March 18.

Mr. George Munro was a native of Pictou County, and taught
for a time in the Free Church Academy before leaving for New
York where he made a fortune as a publisher. He was the brother-in-law of John Forrest, at that time President of Dalhousie and
it was through this relationship that magnificent gifts came to the
University.

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Introducing to You - 
 

 

      

MABEL MacKENZIE

Last but far from least among the
students which the Gazette introduces

Altogether this great philanthropist expended well over three | to its readers this year is that very popuhundred thousand in benefactions to Dalhousie—he endowed the} lar girl—Mabel MacKenzie. A Cape
chairs of Physics, History and Political Economy, Constitutional | Bretoner in origin and a Haligonian by
and International Law, Philosophy, English Literature, besides} adoption, Mabel combines the best
supporting tutorships in Mathematics and Classics and supplying | characteristics of both types and has

valuable bursaries for properly qualified students.

mie Mr. Munro was a pioneer in this respect—no such sum had
ever been given to any Canadian college previously and it is note-|short years ago Mabel has taken as
worthy because it went towards the improvement of the staff and| prominent a part as it is possible for a

made a real contribution to Dalhousie
student life.
Since her entrance to Dalhousie three

students and not to the erection of buildings. The munificance of | girl to take in all phases of student life.

George

In the “College By the Sea’’ which he saved from extinction,
his name and memory should never he allowed to die. Every Dalhousian has a part to play in making a success of this, Dalhousie’s

unro saved Dalhousiefrom financial disaster and set her) A member of the executive of Class '38,
He will be held in everlasting remembrance] vice-president of the Arts and Science

Society and a member of this year’s

Council of Students, Mabel with her
prowess as an organizer has made many
a campus big shot jealous of her
efficiency.

In the Dalhousie social whirl she
shines as one of the most charming
co-eds in recent years. The breadth
of her interests is shown by her loyal
attendance at basketball games and her
Mabel

graduates this year and the best wishes

interest in other lines of sport.

of her many friends at Dalhousie will
always be with her.

We present—one of the best, Mabel
MacKenzie

 

Cooperatives At Dal

Perhaps Dalhousie is a bit too small

Remembrance Day, and it is urged that no one shirk his or her|to run its own co-operative organizaduty. Then and only then may we justly sing, “this is Dalhousie’s| tions, but if students banded together

day.”

AVE ET VALE!

The curtain falls—the staff and writers depart—and another
Gazette year has passed.

and agreed to trade only with certain
firms in each line of necessities, they
could secure enormous reductions.
Each fraternity does business that
way, but a campus-wide organization
could secure much better results.
Several years ago, representatives of
the various fraternities gathered together to consider proposals for mass
It has been a memorable year in many ways—perhaps never] buying of goods, but nothing ever
in the annals of Dalhousie has the campus seen such activity in the|came of the meeting because each

different societies.

group was afraid the others were trying to pull some sort of wool over its

We have tried to uphold the lofty traditions established by | eyes:

former editors of this, the oldest College Paper in America. We
do not know whether we have succeeded or not. Any success
which we have obtained is due not only to our staff but to our many
readers who have, for the most part, been in sympathy with our
efforts. We extend our sincere thanks to all who have in any way
aided in the work of the Gazette, (Ed. note: Over 70 students
contributed during the year) and to the student body for their
wholehearted support in keeping the name of Dalhousie high in the
realms of Canadian college newspaper publications,

It has been our primary interest this year to mold the Gazette

into a strong society with a definite program for both the students’

and Dalhousie’s welfare. The editorial board took part in a national college editorial survey with respect to Canada’s position
in event of war; in this issue is an exchange article written by a

McGill student—these exchange features with other Canadian Uni
versities have proven very satisfactory exchanging as they do

campus opinion and there is great scope for increased contacts in

the future; other features by our contributors have been republish- |

ed from time to time in other college papers. Canadian colleges
are endeavouring to establish closer contact with one another and
the beginning is through the medium of the students’ paper.

We congratulate the executives of the different societies on
their splendid showing during the year and those who took an
active part in making this showing possible.

Remember that the Gazette is your paper for the expression
of your opinions. On many occasions during the present term
splendid copy had to be waste basketed owing to lack of space—

- we suggest less advertising in the future—the students pay enough

and receive little enough in return. We expect the newly appointed Council to give this matter their serious consideration.

We wish success to those who follow us. We entrust the
destiny of the Gazette to them with full confidence that their experience, energy, ability, and loyalty will warrant the support of
all, The Gazette can do a great deal for Dalhousie.

‘Vale!

 
  
   

During Convocation Week

Here at Dal, we have one example,
at least, of what co-operative buying
and selling can do—the book store.
Anyone who thinks the books we buy
nowadays are expensive should have
tried to get them before the Students’
Book Store was established.

Perhaps the Students’ Council could
come to a decision, appoint a committee, or something, to interviews howowners, dry-clean rs, etc., and secure
price reductions for our mass patronage. That would at least make the
$10 we give them every year pay some
dividends Students would be pretty
sure to back the firms recommended if
their prices were reduced honestly.

onsols

WLO

 

Have Your Friends Stop At

THE CARLETON

CENTRAL

HOMELIKE —

REASONABLE

Sp SSS SSS SEES’ [LL LLL ae

 

The Junk Pile

‘Tis All Too True

When Boccaccio says it—it’s frankness,

When Rabelais says it—it’s life,

When Shakespeare says it—it’s genius,

When a columnist says. it—it’s either
vulgar or smutty.

Philosophy

The difference between a model
woman and a woman model—one is a
rare impossibility, the other a naked
fact.

Look Out
Only 30 more days of lectures.
your September studying early.

Do

Prof's wife:
smart man.
thing.”’

Second Ditto: ‘Don’t kid yourself.
He doesn’t suspect a thing.”

“Your husband is a
I suppose he knows every
More Philosophy

A well-built girl is like a three-ring
circus—a fellow doesn’t know where to
look first!

Poor Girl

She doesn’t paint, she doesn’t rouge,
She doesn’t smoke, she doesn’t booze,
She doesn’t kiss, she doesn’t pet,
She’s 58 and single yet!

Overheard

“For two cents I’d knock your block
off.”’

“Get away from me, you dirty professional.”

Now Girls
First Co-ed—I know what it is to be

loved by a cave-man.

Second Cat—Well, I suppose when you
were, voung dearie, there weren’t any
other kind of men.

She—I’m perfect,
He—I'm practice.

 

March 15th, 1987

Council Holds
Special Meet

“T might say, gentlemen” said Pres.
Barnhill of the D. A. A. C, “That
nothing has been done that cannot be
undone.” Thus spake Dalhousie’s
“Man of the Minute” in reply to a suggestion that the D. A. A. C. had acted
rather hastily in calling for entries for
the Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing
Meet in printing 200 signs and several
hundred tickets, before the Council of
Students had granted the necessary
funds.

A few minutes later the Council having made a few rapid calculations decided that they could scrape the money
together and passed a motion granting
the D. A. A. C. $200 for the purpose of
holding the Championships.

Although the Special Meeting had
been called to discuss the Boxing Grant,
two very interesting letters were read,
informing the Council that The Year
Book would not be ready for Munro
Day as planned. The printer explained that to date all of the copy for the
publication had not been received.

The other, from the Dalhousie Senate, announced that in the future,
students taking two year courses leading to Masters’ Degrees would not be
charged any Council Fee during their
final year. The Senate justified its
action by pointing out that such students have long complained about
supporting a body in which they had
so little interest. This stroke comes
as a mortal blow to Pres. Elwyn Hughes
and his Cohorts in the newly-formed
Graduate Society, who during the last
week or so have been hot-foot after
Council representation. In short it
looks like the Council will be poorer by
$800 and the graduates without a representative during the coming year.

All the Right Answers!

Here’s a suit that answers the college man’s prayer for
style and economy. It’s a neat double-breasted model
that leads a double life. You can go to town in it,
attired in smart business-like fashion; or—note how
perfectly the jacket blends with the chap’s checked
trousers to make a natty sport outfit. Yes, sir, it’s a
two-timing suit that’s on the level with style—because
it’s designed by Tip Top stylists.

A one-button model with the proper long roll to the
lapel — fullness through the Pend esheets narrower

at the bottoms.

Hand-cut and tailored to measure:

TTU437

You Get the New Styles First at Tip Top

24.95
TIP TOP TAILORS

LIMITED

HAND CUT AND TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

_—

 

 

 
   
  
    
 
  
  
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
   

te:—This article is a feature
‘itt a McGill student and kindly
t to ‘us by the “McGill Daily” in

-z Fisher.)

Papineau et |l’independance—a bas le
 despotisme” were the shouts of the
_ Nationalists i in 1837. The shouts grew,
ei o finally mingling with the crackling of
eer and the cries of the wounded.
Civil War had broken out in Lower Can
“Pour notre autonomie économique—
ee. hous sommes préts 4 realiser notre
+ unit? nationale—Un jour viendra qui
nest pas venu—faut-il defendre I’ile-_ aux-chiens (England)?”’ are the shouts
of the Nationalists of 1987. Where
will they lead? Perhaps to bloodshed
~ as in 1887, perhaps to a schism: in Canadian Federation; no one can tell. _ There is one outstanding difference
_ between the Nationalism of 1837 and

that of 1987. In 1837 the ‘rebels’ were

 

‘2 ; real Nationalists—they were fighting
_ for the cause of the people of Canada
5 —fighting for responsible government.

a In 1837 they had the support of educat| ed men of all classes and races. Today

some of their leaders are able men—

there are wrongs to right—educated
men of both races realize this, but the
methods of satisfying their demands
_ are apt to take an acute turn whch will

prove very unfair to agreat many people.

5 Bourassa of Labelle
E ers There were many French Canadians

_. who did not wish to have anything to
do with the conflict of 1914 even before
the war broke. Their feelings were

voiced by Henri Bourassa, the independent member from Labelle. They
- were nationalists in the sense that they
‘ ee - wanted a united Canada. They wanted Confederation to bind the Provinces
joe and wished to develop a Nationalism,

ae free from the hampering strings of the
eos Se ritish Foreign office. After the war
card - they passed from the scene and the en
 
  

2 fo the benches | of the House—

We must now consider l’Abbe Groulx,
the man behind the scenes and the inspiration of the present agitation.
Today Grouix is practicaily the guiding star of the Nationalist movement,
hd all the branches and sections of it follow his ideals (more or less). He is not
Ln very active himself, being content to
e believe that the pen is mightier than
. the sword.

Paul Gouin

Perhaps one of the most out and out
Nationalists is Paul Gouin. He was the
leader of the opposition to the old Lib, eral regime but after the election which
resulted in the downfall of the Liberals
he split with the temporary union of
Nationalists and Conservatives—the
union having been formed solely for
I purposes of defeating Taschereau.

; Paul Gouin is out of the Government
. —but he is not beaten, he is thinking

things over. He plans to write a book
on Nationalism and may eventually
si be the big leader of the Nationalists.

a He is essentially against the trusts.

A Message to College Men--
Whether buying a life insurance policy as a
provision for the future,
the selling of life insurance as a profession, you
would do well to consider the outstanding

_ sixty-seven year record of The Mutual Life

of Canada.

Branch Manager or our Home Office.

See eee ee

ESTABLISHED 1869.
Owned by the Policyholders

HOME OFFICE—WATERLOO, ONT.

 

~ Be foocodad of Maritime Kights” by

ee “Papineau et le systéme ¢lectiffi—

usual

 

reid vis y saw their. party disap- |

He is anti-Montreal Light Heat and \

Communicate with our nearest

DALHOUSIE

- : By J. de B.
A Canadian University Press Feature

Power, anti- Montreal Tramways and
anti-Beauharnois Power, His paper
“La Province’? is above all antiDuplessis as well as being Nationalist.

Many Parties

The confusing thing about Quebec
politics and the Nationalist movement
is the great number of parties and newspapers which are in evidence. As
in any question of agitation a
small party can make a great deal of
noise. The French people are naturally
excitable. We must find out what is
behind their loud barrage.

The “L,Action Nationale’ is perhaps the largest separatist force in
Quebec today. It iscomposed of lawyers, professiona! men, professors and
doctors. They are dyed in the wool

separatists—not necessarily from the

Empire, but from Confederation. They

do not want bloodshed, but will fight
the English with the methods of the

English. They base their platform
upon the writings of Groulx.

Youth Movements Active

Then there are the youth movements.
They are many and confusing. Their
actions are based largely on what their
mentors put into their heads. In
Montreal we have Les Jeunesses Patriotes an organization numbering about
two hundred. They are sold on the
idea of developing the Province unto
the independent state of Laurentia.
At first this was to consist of the Proyince of Quebec, but as their ideas grew
they included the northern (gold producing) part of Ontario and the French
speaking part of New Brunswick. As
yet they have not answered the all important question of tariffs and of what
they will use to buy a few manufactured
goods which are not found in the Province. They have not realized that they
would be a prey to the first country
which wanted to use them (U. S. A.,
as we see it.)

_ Newspapers

The outstanding Nationalist paper

‘\in Quebec is “‘La Nation,” edited by

Paul Bouchard, of Quebec city, who
ranks with Paul Gouin as the No. 1
Nationalist. It carries a column of
anti-British and anti-Imperialistic material every week. These people are
rabid separatists and never lose a chance
to insult or disclaim the administration at Ottawa—to quote from ‘‘La
Nation.”’

“Donec avec Tweedsmuir s’est la terreure qui regnait le Colonial Office qui
s’installe 4 Ottawa, le conseille des ministres qui s‘efflace devant la clique
l'Imperialiste de quatrieme empire
decidement, on ni a pas gagnait au
change.”

“Voila, Messieurs les Anglais du Quebec—Un jour viendra qui n’est pas
venu. Aujourd’hui c’est un monstre
bicephale: LA CONFEDERATION:”

“Demeurons-nous Canadians Francais et reprenons notre place dans notre
pays. DEHORS LES ETRANGERS
ET EXIGEONS LE FRANCAIS OBLIGATOIRE DANS TOUS LES
ACTES OFFICIELS DU QUEBEC.”

“Faut-il -defendre l’ile-aux-chiens?”’

Perhaps one of the strongest senti

or contemplating

professor at McGill who attends a
C.C.F. meeting, students who listened
to the Spanish Delegation, or anybody
—~iwho does not see eye to eye with the

“If there is another
war and there is conscription we, Canadians, will fight on our own soil for
peace and liberty.”

ments is this:

The Fascist Bogey

Much has been heard of the Fascists
in Quebec. Numerically they are the
largest of all these groups. But they
are on the wane. They are violently
anti-Semitic and anti-Communistic.
Their leader is Adrien Arcand. He
would adopt the Corporative State as it
exists in Italy. He is “sold’’ on the
Mussolini programme, He is the publicity manager for the Union National
party which is the government, and
edits ‘‘L’Illustration Nouvelle.’’ the
new defunct ‘‘La Gargoyle’”’ and ‘*Le
Patriot.’’

One of his papers is “‘L’Unité’’ edited
by Claude Dubuc, a young lawyer.
By quoting him at length we may get
an idea of his aims: ;

“L’imperialism britannique est
un fléau des plus dangereux car il est
subtil—nous n’existions que pour |’ Angleterre.”’

Then Dubuc asks:

“Why were we not. represented
at Buenos Ayres at the conference
for peace—because a crazy imperialism
Says we are British and Continental
when we are really an
Nation.”

American
University of Montreal

This leaves the University of Montreal and the Catholic Church to be
considered. The University of Montreal consists of a great number of students, like any other University, who
do not give one damn what happens
to the Province. But it also contains
a loud-mouthed minority. This minority is swayed by every Nationalist wind
that blows. Their paper, ‘‘Le Quartier
Latin’’, is one of the most Nationalist
and anti-Imperialistic papers in the
country.

The professors of the University of
Montreal are in sympathy, it would
seem, with the L’Action National. On
the whole the University of Montreal
contains members of all parties and
views, The University tends to develop an intensely Provincial outlook
which is seen in many of its graduates.

The Church and Communism

It is difficult to estimate just how
much the Church influences and supports the Nationalists. Certainly it
does not suppress the expression of
Nationalistic propaganda.
icle in “Le Juartier Latin” is passed by
two clerical censors. Some of the
material printed is startling to say the
least.

The Church at the beginning of the
post-war period saw that it was losing
its grip on the young people. It looked
for some means of getting them back
to the fold. If the Church is to retain
its old place in the world it must remain the strongest international force.
It openly fights Communism, it may
not openly encourage Nationalism, but
it certainly tolerates and countenances
a great deal of it—and has done nothing to stop the growth of the antiEnglish feeling. All Jews in Quebec
are apparently Communists.

Every art
So is any

accepted policy of the power behind
the scenes in Quebec religious circles.

Situation Today

The French people have not had a
chance to share in the development of

 

A Pleasing
Suggestion

Its always pleasing when
someone suggests

TOAST AND TEA
or
ICE CREAM AND CAKE

at

The Green Lantern

 

GAZETTE

What Is This Quebec Nationalism?

the Province because they have lacked
the funds. They have not had the
education. They have not been given
responsible posts in the Federal Civil
Service for the simple reason that they
have not had the training. There is
no question of the English people not
wanting them. But it is a question of
education, which, as French Canadians
so frequently tell us, is their own business. Actually there are more French
Canadians in the Federal Civil Service
in Quebec than their proportion of the
population warrants. On the other
hand it is a well known fact that it is
impossible to work for the Crown in
certain Quebec departments unless you
are a French Canadian.

Potentially the French Canadian is
as smart as the English Canadian—the
basic difference is in education.

The Province of Quebec is a fine old
Province. There is room for everybody—but we all have our rights. The
English speaking merchants and farmers have as much right to the fruits of
their labours as anybody else.

Bourassa Again

Bourassa is taking the stands again.
He is denouncing the Nationalism of
1937. He wants a United Canada free
from London’s strings, and above all
peaceful. He tells his people that they
are a minority in a large country. He
points out their advantages, and tells
them they must fit themselves to
utilize their assets and make the most of
their opportunities. If there is one
person we should respect in the Province of Quebec today it is old Henri
Bourassa of County Labelle.

But will the people of Quebec as a

whole be content with this possible, |

but gradual evolution—or will they attempt to assert their ‘rights’ by stronger methods

Some fear they will. Revolution in
a physical sense seems unlikely, although it is not impossible. What will
actually happen will probably be socialization of many public utilities. The
government will try to expand the
school system, but on the whole, things
will run along very much as at the
present time because the French people
have not learnt nor will learn how to
think—they learn what to think. They
are not leaders—rather do they like
being led. Today they are being led
by the Church, The Church will continue to lead them because the Church
controls education.

Always The Same

Long before we were alive

In the year of eighty-five

Dal was even than a college

Filled with students gaining knowledge.
Wooden ships and iron men
Guarded Britain’s bound’ries then:
Buftalo roamed o'er the west,
Cowboys, Indians and the rest.
These and other things of yore

Now are gone forevermore.

One thing only doth remain

The Forrest Building ts the same.

Fifty years from now I see
Students working dismally

While the ancient building creaks,
While the walls around them leak,
While the mournful wind doth moan
And the lecturer doth drone

Firm against the wintry blast
Doth the sacred structure last.
Ash to ash and dust to dust,

People die, as people must.

One thing only doth remain

The Forrest Buiiding is the same.

DRUGS
TOILET ARTICLES
CONFECTIONERY
FOUNTAIN

FADER’S

Pharmacy
29 COBURG RD.

 

 

   

Established 1876

 
     

 

‘CRITICAL MOMENTS.

Page Three

“Sure — good tobacco is its own best smoke-filter.”
“Right! That’s why I stick to Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —{"ancet

 

The Graduation Gift. .

To mark Graduation,
an important milestone,

CASINO

NOW PLAYING

 

a BIRKS’ watch is a

oo att.. Beautiful, PAT O’BRIEN
urable an accurate,

it meets all  require- HUMPHREY BOGART

ments.
ts Soiiate 24

“THE GREAT
O’MALLEY”’

‘Rah Rah Rythm”

‘‘Krazi Inventions’’
News of the Day

Canada’s greatest value
in watches.

 

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants

Barrington St.

 

When You Need

 

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
or any other Drug Store Merchandise
You get better SERVICE and VALUE

at KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

 

HAVE YOUR LEATHER GOODS REPAIRED
by

AKELLY’S LTD.

At Reasonable Prices

118 GRANVILLE ST.
Phone B-6964

 

  

Q ae 3s
WHEN YOURE

1 Wi THE PROMPTER

NS AT THE
eK COLLEGE
Or

‘THEATRICAL=

—AND THE HERO HAS JUST FORGOTTEN
HIS LINES AND YOU REACH FOR YOUR
PROMPT BOOK ONLY TO FIND THAT SOME
WAG HAS STOLEN IT,—LEAVING YOU A
PATENT MEDICINE CALENDAR— Tre

 

 

 
  
   
   
    
 

on

=e”

=

P s
7 <

   

=
yy, =

' ’
'

=a.” : .

* é

Fe a

*
.,
ut SS ; 4

Sle

”
ft

‘ —~
» fp
(A
I a Ff ae .
| ee ee
ine
Ci
ee A
oe od ' i
yee a hg,
£3. “s , =

   
 
   
  
    
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
   

i

.

eae
ee fey

ae

lla oe
» a oe

ae Th
ia i
. ove 6
rs

eile

ae:
4

a

Soe
|
ae

i ap
ee ee

bs
ta
ae.

Es
Pa) F

Ben
i + \ #

    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
      
    
 
   
    
  
    
     
   
    

_—s)

eet
oe,

oe}
a
a 2
Ny
Pf,
7 )
ies ae
+ a
<a

- ae

a cs.

.)
mi

biting the hand that feeds

7

-Throngs of stud

Ps

i ae egotistical selves.

is’ # i
a .
} ;, = a haadt ae ~~
iJ ie ey Eg
ey Les a - 2
ST ae ae)

i oe TO Neg have a man in that highest position

*

as though they must.

*

ca)

’

fessional candidate
failure.

ake

a4,

itor’s Pen

, ¥
’

  

BITING THE HAND THAT FEEDS YOU
JLLING THE GOOSE THAT LAYS THE GOLDEN EGG
At present the University extorts a fee of twenty dollars,

x ‘for a diploma) payable before the final examinations of the pro— oe Se aaa returnable only in the case of candidate's

The fee is obviously excessive when one considers that the

ae ‘ike levied for diplomas in other faculties is only ten dollars—
it surely looks like a discrimination against professional students.

The University garners in a substantial margin on the $10. dip
loma fee as the cost of the sheepskin, printing,

not nearly amount to $10.
The Arts and

ersity but it owes

and engrossing do

Science faculty may be the heart of the Univits very existence to the professional faculties,

that is to say professional students are practically supporting
the college with the Faculty of Law carrying the heaviest burden.
It comes to this—the fee is but an added tax upon the students

—at no time of the year could the payment of the extra charge
be more unpleasant to the payer—one of the last caresses of the

Alma Mater is the extortion
excessive. Perhaps a
“Give Me

from the student of a fee patently
fitting heading for the diploma would be
Something to Remember You By”.

With the professional students carrying such a heavy financial burden, surely the university authorities will do something

to remedy or at least alleviate
you.

 

this discrimination. A ‘case of

_—
QUIET, PLEASE!

Spring and examinations herald their swift approach.

ents, suddenly realizing the virtue of meditation

‘and study, crowd the various libraries. Models of industry, as
if life itself depended on their keeping their noses glued to their
‘books, many spend countless hours in the reading-rooms during

the hard days to come.

Others there are, however, who do not reduce themselves to

wearing out the library seats,
to have started working early,
able to do all

 _ nervous wrecks by burning the midnight oil of reprentance and by
because they are fortunate enough

or because they are (they think)
their work the night before the examination, or

because they are too lazy to work anyway. Many of these for‘tunate or unfortunate mortals frequent the libraries since it is
still cold outside, and, in defiance of the silence rules and in disregard of the frantic labour of those who are working, convert the

publicly labelled an
when you are in a
professors and

echo our-cry—

Dalhousie Man

ee ce
¥

‘Quiet, Please.”

Again we have a new president of
our student governing body; and again

_ who was trained and spent his undergraduate days in another college. For
years this has been prevalent at Dalhousie, that is, the holding of the most
important positions on the campus by
men who have taken their undergraduate courses in outside universities.

The true ‘Dalhousie Man,” one who
has spent his first collegiate years at

‘Studley, is sadly conspicuous by his

_ absence as far as holding responsible

posts on the campus is concerned.
Not for many years has such a man held

- the position of President of the Stu
dents’ Council. For the past two
years Barney Barnhill has ruled the

destinies of the D. A. A. C. Next
Autumn will see Gordon Thompson, a
Dalhousie Man in the full sense of the
word, take over organized black and
gold athletics, it is true, but this case is
an exception to the rule.

Doc Roy, President of the Glee} «pparos”

Club since 1935-36, came to us from
_ another institution and President-elect
- Hazen Mitchell is also a product of a

sister university. And as Guiding

Hand of Sodales we find Lee Landreville

too, an outsider, if we take the phrase

Dalhousie Man at its face value. All

good men, these, the best on the campus, doubtless, or naturally they would

not be where they are, or should not be,
anyway, but is it not a challenge to the
undergraduate students of this, our

- independent college by the sea?

Do our younger Dalhousians lack
sufficient executive training? It seems
Perhaps this
deplorable condition will be remedied
within the next few years by the recently formed Arts and Science Society. There rests a hope, however
‘forlorn, at ieast. Find the Dalhousie
Man. He must exist, Annals tell
‘us he did in the glorious past, so why
not today and tomorrow?

= De

 

singers and dancers. One entrant
only submitted as her hobby, cooking.
es a: it ifo = oe

 

i? OO.

| ‘We understand the S.C. M. at

a. 1
Fj

  

ity of Manitoba has adopted

a new slogan: “Stop crucifying milk.”
ra

ne D.. a

f

4 ' x
nt ® os a: ; ‘
Suite 20
_ oat. wi F,
ee
i F 7

: ia oe oe eieo,
ay 4 7 ity. Ue : a

|

a *
i. ee

    

   

Specifications of 25 girls show that )

brunettes predominate; all want stage, | ff
screen or radio careers; are capable |

libraries into gossip-rooms and send a continuous maddening hiss
of whispering echoing through the room. .

unmannerly lout or hussy, shun the library
talking mood. Don’t blame the loud-talking
librarians for the noise—blame your own selfish,
Common courtesy and your own self-respect

Unless you wish to be

Pharos 1937

Sometime before April 1st ‘‘Pharos”
for this year will make its appearance
on the Campus. If not the best yet,
at any rate, this year’s edition will be
the most novel of Dalhousie Year
Books. Nothing has been overlooked,
and Campus life and activities of the
past year are all recorded in full. Panorama Views of the Campus, Novel
Critiques and the introduction of a
new section entitled ‘Dalhousie’s hall
of Fame” should make this issue one
long to be treasured by graduates and
undergraduates alike.

This work has been completed in just
one month of active labor by an energetic staff. Their only reward isthe
appreciation which the students have
shown by their cooperation. Those
who have signed for the book have far
outnumbered the number available.
Since it is too late now to fill these extra
orders, it has been decided, that in
fairness to all, the first 825 to pay the
$2 fee will be delivered their Copy of
It is regrettable that such
is the case. Our advice to you is to
see that you are in that first list.
Get your receipt from any Council
member or any member of the staff.
Do this early and avoid later disappointment.

The editor of “Pharos” thanks you
for your interest and cooperation.
They hope to reward the student body
with a Year Book, worthy of the name
it bears and the group it represents.

RECIPES

FIXTURES

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ees

Book Review

“ANON YMOUS—1871-1935”’
John Murray-London 1936—$4.00

The book itself can hardly be called
an autobiography, although at times
it approaches that form, yet its continuity is so repeatedly broken that it
probably comes under the heading of
reminiscences, ‘‘Reminiscences with a
caustic note’’ would be a good title.

Causticity is its ‘keynote. Inconoclasm predominates throughout. She
spares none of the popular idols of
stage, and literature, But it is not
complete controviness, like Nathan her
criticisms of the stage though devastating, are brilliant. She gives the
impression of disagreeing for the sake
of disagreement. Such people, unless
completely stupid, rarely love. The
book will make you mad, but it will
also make you want to talk to the
authoress.

During the latter part of the 19th
century she was included in the famous
circle of Herman Vegin. Oscar Wilde
was also included of whom she says:
“Oscar’s pose annoyed me and I
began to anticipate what he would say,
and finish his remarks in my own mind
before he had done speaking.”’ Comments on the Wilde trial are diplomatic,
which by a woman is only accomplished
by being indefinite.

She says of Shaw that his ‘‘characteristic turn of words is staler to me now
than convention itself. I expect it.
and frankly it has lost its savour for
me.....of well weighed, careful judgment, comparison of detail, the qualities that belong to the accurate thinker,
he is of all men the least compact.”
All well and good, besides being
scathing, it is clever and analytical
criticism but when the dear lady says
“His ‘Joan of Arc’ is to my thinking
an offence’, all toleration subsides.
One who would be so exacting in her
desire for perfection from others should
be a trifle more exact in her criticisms.
As far as the public is concerned, the
only work of Shaw’s that deals with
the Maid of Orleans is entitled ‘‘St.
Joan”. As much as one can tolerate
personal bias in criticism, there is a
limit to that also. The lady evidently
believes that in attacking Shaw, she is
being Shavian herself. But attacks
on Shaw and embittered attacks on
what most people consider an immortal
work, are entirely different things.
Whatever one thinks of the man, his
“St. Joan’ can hardly be called an
offense.

More at home, we believe, is the
author when she is speaking of the
stage. She has read plays, professionally, for the past 25 years, hence
covers a period with authenticity.
Idol smashing remains the prevalent
note here as well. She says of Ellen
Terry: “I liked her light and delicate
comedy, I felt her pathos, but in her
work there was always a lack of depth”.
Other fairly dependable people name
her the greatest actress of her day.

_ At one time she was a literary critic,
but turns her back upon it now with

=

Romance Or

What Have You

Perhaps no other single column has
invited such a quantity of righteous
wrath as ours this year....We have
been flooded with letters. ...from enraged females and wronged males. ...

At the same time there have been
others, who marvel at our store of
information. For instance, the other
day, one of the editors called the home
of Miss Betty Pearson. The time was
1.45 p.m. The answer he received was

that as yet Miss Pearson had not
returned from class. Your Correspondent immediately analyzed the

case and came to the conclusion that
the said Miss Pearson was out walking
with Bob Begg. A minute later the
Editor departed from the Gazette
office and the first thing that met his
eyes was Betty Pearson and Bob Begg
walking across the Campus....And
that’s the way we've been picking
them all year.

At this point we wish to thank those
who have aided us in the acquirement
of information throughout the year.
Particularly do we thank the Vice
President of the Junior Class, the
Vice-President of the Arts and
Science Society, the President of
the Commerce Society, the Dalhousie correspondent for the Halifax Mail, the President of the
newly formed Dramatic Society,
the President of Shirreff Hall and
a host of others. Through your
efforts this column has largely been
possible.

 

What a week, what a week....

First it was the Pi Phi formal....
The girls did the affair up in rare style. .

Ted Crease wishes that it be universally known that he and Don Saunderson, together with ‘‘Birdman’’ MacGregor and Douglas Bagg were entertained at the most delightful dinner
ever set before hungry men.... If
their opinions are to be accepted the
affair was of the extra extra variety.

 

“The course of true love never did
run smooth” or so says John Rowiey.
It appears that this paragon of gentlemanly virtue in his haste to reach
Madame X took a plane that crashed. .
May your romance experience a different fate, Mr. Rowley... .

—

The Commerce Banquet was a
gigantic affair with Turner O’Brien,
Hattie Nelson, Don Saunderson and
Ted Crease representing the alumni,
casting a suspicious eye upon the
actions of the present crop of hopeful
business men.

The Phi Kapp house was the scene
of a delightful interfraternity dance on
Saturday evening. Tag Day assumed
his newly acquired presidential atmosphere. ...Georgie Murphy and Frannie
Martell put on a rather rare show....
Lovely party....lovely party....

....it is fine journalism, in play form.
“Aldous Huxley. His books creak

scorching sarcasm. Interestingly she; with self consciousness.” Umph! “All
says: “Cannot the professional critic] Quiet on the Western Front—Lyric
in newspaper and magazine be abolish- | Hysteria.”

ed? Must artists submit to the im
‘Maughan is too intelligent not to

perfect judgment and see their hopes} be his own best critic....to his penblasted by the dictatorial pronounce-| etrating brain all types are realisable’’.

ments of the few governing the many?
The Publisher’s Club

humiliates, Quite frank but hardly
in keeping with the tone of her book.
Coming to the moderns her criticisms remain and they are just a
little more definite. Some of the more
cutting comments follow: ‘‘Many of
the boasted Noel Coward lines are too
obvious for me; I see no humour in
them.....He gives us the ideas of the
moment as does a brilliant journalist

MANAGEMENT

DOOKS TEA ROOM Ltd.

CAPITOL BUILDING

CONFECTIONERY

TOBACCOS

COME IN AND BRING YOUR FRIEND
MAKE IT A DALHOUSIE GET-TOGETHER
AFTER THE SHOW

is the most] do not like women.
pitiful grimace ever devised; its flattery | that... .they are untrustworthy.

character: “No, I

I agree with men
But
so are men... Well thank God for dogs?

It is a book to be read, for the author
knows her subject well. It is entertaining, making you want to fight
and argue, which are good things.
The style, though unorthodox, is racy
and lends an awe of readableness to the
book. English 2 students will appreciate the chapter dealing with comedy,
rhythm of words, and onomato pocia.

Insight on her

DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

When Buying Easter
Togs
Don’t Forget the
SHOE PROBLEM
which can be completely
solved

By a Visit to

Shane’s Shoe Store

419 BARRINGTON ST.

The Usual Discount to
Siudents.

 

 

Walking,

With Our Muses--
LIFE AND DEATH

March 15th, 1987

Walking.forever in a yellow fog,

Round in a circle;
Seeing shadows pass,

To and fro, walking rownd and round in a
circle, the shadows pass,
Round and round in a cirele. .

They are other men,
They are always they:
I am always I.

They are going nowhere,

I am going nowhere.

Walking, always walking,

Dragging,
Lafting,
Dragging,

One foot after the other.

Dragging,
Lafting,
Dragging,
That is life.

The shadows grow dim.

I cannot see the other men any more.
I wonder if they were other men.

I wonder vf I am walking.

The yellow fog grows thicker,

I am alone now,
It is dark.
That is death.

SCORN

Tf all that life has meant to thee,
A mad dance through society,

A shell of noisy nothingness,
Sticking in an evening dress;

A row of blue eternities

Perforaied with pink teas,
Where haughty dames and greedy

hogs

Send the whole world to the dogs,
Soaking themsélves in gossips mire,
Scorching their friends in hatred’s fire,
Until their souls sufficient black

To buy their way to hell and back.

If this is lafe io you, I scorn

The very day WHEN

you were born.

 

Cotinnerec Revels| Nik Vile Dal

The Commerce Department held
their annual banquet on Saturday evening. The affair which took place in the
Nova Scotian Hotel, with the members
adjourning to the regular Saturday
evening supper dance in the ballroom,
saw the return of a large number of
the alumni who came from various
provincial points for the occasion.

Dr. R. P. Smith, of the faculty of
Medicine of Dalhousie and provincial pathologist, was the guest speaker
for the occasion.

Professor James MacDonald, Commerce Department head, introduced
Dr. Smith to the members of the Commerce faculty.

Bill Simpson of Stewiacke, president
of the Society, acted as chairman for the
occasion,

Influential Campus Organizations

Thought Instigator of New Move

Vancouver, B. C., Feb. 19 (W.I.P.U.)
—Politics, deep, dark and sinister, will
enter the U.B.C. campus elections this
year, it is rumored.

Following accusations by interested
parties, the most startling plots and
intrigues have been brought before the
public gaze. Although it is impossible
at this time to say exactly what parties
or groups are behind the innovation,
opinion has it that one or more of the
several influential organizations on this
campus are the instigators. The party
in power might represent the two major
faculties of Arts and Sciences. It is
eonsidered possible, also, that fraternal
groups may be back of the move.

Long Distance Gets An Answer
Right Away--
What questions about members of the family are in your

mind?
anniversary is

Whose birthday, whose

this? What

anxieties would you like to set at

rest?

Call the folks now!

You’ll be

more than paid in pleasure for
the little it costs.

Low night rates are in effect after
7.00 p. m. every evening and

ALL DAY SUNDAY.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

COMPANY, LTD.

 

I
[eee

 

 

 
   
  
   

s Macdonald, M. A., 1828so of Mathmatics, Dal
us go. back to the vear 1846. In
: seat we find Charles Macdonald,

pournal, was Foretade in the de
which they had never had for me before. I recall him as he stood before
his class by the blackboard, now working with his right hand, and now changa his position and working with his

| left hand if that gave the class a better

view cf his work. Now he pauses for a
few seconds to interject some illuminating analogy, some comment half to
himself, half to the class, and again it

 

 

Fe etiand ticker pe ve pate A ite a ee! re
; F ae ae ee AN i ae ‘i c rd Sa? rie » an c a.
ae cae ane uff oe ‘ ” Tae. ths Son ee ae ou Ps) : oF SNe eA a
me) pe ld * 7 a Pee ke, pe ee, iP dae, - *\.
fi Oo Paaingse eee! AP vs As ae Py, ae 7 aS ne ek at ee eee roe et a ;
' ees Oy tae, oy a A aie Le a F (ae eg ae 1) : 4 =
A Si uf a i" a ee eke ae, ce ee er ae 4 oy aa i . . ~ & a*°9 i ’ - ’ , 4 , a < % ie r. . a : :
Bp eS FS Ean. eS bi -* ee . eae het eek:
Phen Os s) rch oF fie ae d 8 ¥ or : ’
~ oeemrter po abe yy bh” ;
ee “ p z .
th as tes DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

And We Know What We’re
- Talking About

(From the New Glasgow Evening News)

(ED. NOTE :—The article below is from the pen of J. R. H.
Sutherland, a recent former editor of the ‘‘Gazette’’, and is of
such importance that we consider it our duty to reprint it.)

Far be it for this newspaper to ask for trouble by daring to question the wisdom of the rest of the New Glasgow press, but in a late issue is an editorial on
Dalhousie that ts definitely misleading tn many respects.

Quite correctly, it denotes Dalhouste as a child of Pictou County—the untversity is; it was the natural outgrowth of the desire for knowledge and higher living implanted in the souls of the early settlers of these parts by those two eminent scholars, Doctors MacGregor and McCulloch, the latter being the first prestdent of Dalhousie.

. Throughout the years that have followed its founding, Pictonians have played

a large pari in its life, supplying it with brains beyond enumeration and hundreds
of thousands of dollars alone from one Pictonian, George Munro, a New Glasgow natize. That Pictou County is still supplying brains to the university is
proven in that (from our memory and without checking for more) four present
Dalhousians, either in Halifax or studying abroad, are holding scholarships.

With that we have no protest. But when the editorial imputes thai it costs
more to attend Dalhousie, that there is little or no supervision and, in short, Dalhousie is slipping, we feel tt 1s time to protest.

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
    
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  

hating society, and the champion
wrestler of his college. Classics and
Mathematics were his favourite studies.
_ He graduated in 1850, winning the
- Hutton Prize which at that time was
tren “to the most distinguished scholar
_ at the termination of the Arts Curriculum”. He was licensed to be a min_ ister of the Presbyterian Church in
_ the spring of 1856 but preferred teaching to preaching and heid a position in
_ the Aberdeen Grammar school for
~~ seyeral years, combining with his duties
3 there the duties also of Chaplain in his
_ former college. It was in 1863 that
he came to Halifax being nominated
ay by the Presbyterian Church to their
es Chair in Mathematics in Dalhousie
~ University, and there he laboured with
the faithfulness and great fame that
__ all old Dalhousians well know until five
— days before his death from pneumonia
ok on the 1ith of March, 1901.
a _ The Edinburgh Scotsman, speaking of
“a F, Shin, quoted a reference to him made
by the Chairman at a recent Univer_ sity Club dinner in London. He said
4 at _ that Macdonald was not only the most
i ' brilliant scholar of his year but the
most brilliant scholar of his time.
_ Such was the man whom we had as
rts teacher and friend here in our midst
- for the long space of thirty-eight years.
: Professor Gordon MacGregor, of
a“
aby honoured memory with Dalhousians,
% who held the Chair of Physics at DalBes Housic for many years before going
: B= to Edinburgh University to the like
jes position there, speaking of the Associ. ; _ ation here of Johnson and Macdonald
a a “Tt was full of importance for] forgotten, of the beloved teacher's
e future of Dalhousie that two such | funeral service They were held on the
yrofessors as Johnson and Macdonald} 13th of March, 1901, in the lower hall
Id have been secured at the outset | of the old Forrest Building. Dr. For‘the Chairs of Classics and Mathe-| rest, and his most intimate friend, Dr.

the routine of the class-room.

Here are a few of these ‘asides,’
taken from the note-book of some
Boswell of his Class. “Some of us,
it would seem, are not improving in
accuracy of diction.” “It’s a spley
method of speech ye have, it’s not
gude.”’ “Take the-4 out of bondage
to the surd.’”’ ‘Use the first equation
as @ sort of siedge-hammer to break up
the others.” Now some noise, not helpful to him, comes from the backseat—
“Eh! there’s nobody more tolerant of
fun than myself when it’s an evidence
of genius, or less so when it is guided by
stupidity.” Now he is returning an
exercise. "Eh! Your work was well
set down, what there was of it.”
on for many more examples,
space permitted.

“Donnie” Murray, his successor in
the Chair of Mathematics, said of him:

“All his efforts were directed towards
“developing in his students clearness
“of thought, accuracy of expression,
“self-reliance and true manliness,
“word to converting unformed and
“inexperienced boys into thoughtful
“and responsible members of society.”’

In 1882 he married the eldest
daughter of the Hon. W. J. Stairs, but
only a year of a happy married life was
granted to him. She died after little
more than a year, shortly after the
birth of his son, who died a few years
ago, after returning from overseas service in the Great War. I shall pass
on now to the ceremonies, never to be

Without wishing to cast any refhections on other universities, we
know that Dalhousie is one of, if not the cheapest college to attend in
Canada. We have known young men who went elsewhere in the Maritimes before attending Dalhousie and who kept strict account of pennies spent. They averaged between $100 and $150 less a year at Dalhousie when all fees and expenses
chargeable had been taken into account. We also know a young lady who attended another university before going to Halifax and she found that money could be
saved by doing so.

So much for costs. As for student supervision, tt 1s to laugh. When a boy
(or girl) gets to the age when he (or she) can attend university, if he
(or she) lacks enough intestinal fortitude to need supervision, he (or
she) will need it while life lasts and never amount to shucks anyway.
As far as that goes, there is little or no supervision in any of the colleges today,
Young people just will not take enforced advice from anyone. They prefer to
go their own way and they do.

LIQUOR, DANCING, ETC., ARE OBTAINABLE AT EVERY COLLEGE TOWN IN THE MARITIMESAND WE SPEAK WITH AN INSIDE KNOWLEDGE OF THE FACTS THAT WILL CONFOUND ANY
OTHER EDITOR WITHIN A RANGE OF 200 MILES.

_ Dalhousie slipping? Well, there are students going from Pictou County
but in our opinion that is due largely tothe fact that the old ‘College by the Sea"
has failed to adequately present its case to the public, whereas the others have been
on their toes in this respect.

and so

if my

in a

Congrats and Critiques

ition has a direct advertising value
for the University. ... Yes, it was quite

, a Rats What a year... .yes, what a year..
A few failures clouded over with so

 

These being the fundamental After a
short and simple service the body was
carried to. Camp Hill Cemetery, like
Browning’s gramn.arian, on the

shoulders of twelve students, marching
in two relays of six each. The students who had this coveted honour
were D. E. Ross, R. Boehner, E. R.
Faulkner, J. Ross Miller, L. H. Cumming, J. Malcolm, E. M. Flemming,
M. A. Lindsay, N. Macdonald, J.
Corston, M. J. McPherson, and G. H.
Sedgewick. A perpetual monument to
his memory is the Macdonald Memorial
Library erected in 1912 largely from
his former stu
es.

 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
 

sts of the curriculum any defectreatment of either would have
ed. the future of the College., But,
ugh men of very different stamp,
he one as typical an Irishman as the
other a Scotsman, both had the same
. ideal” of thorough University work.
, A or it is to their labours as Colleagues
= for thirty years, labours which were
panasred more fruitful by the intimate
friendship between them, that the
_ present standing of the college is for
teh most part to be ascribed.”
“a ¥ Let me go back now to the time of we

ic

Pollok, taking the chief part.

may be some reproof, subtle and not
soothing, to an unfortunate disturber of

many successes it would require three
issues of the Gazette to merely mention them \

An
which packed the football stands in the
fall.... brought out droves of students
in competition for places on various
debating teams throughout the year. .
made Dalhousie’s entry into Intercollegiate hockey a necessity....and
lots more

ee baie @

increased Dalhousie spirit....

It would be unfair and impossible
to pick out any one activity or society
as leader of the field and so we will
merely mention them as they come to

an ENTERPRISE.

Congratulations to the Mussolini of
Dalhousie sport. The work of Mr.
Ed Barnhiil in connection with the
now famous Dalhousie-Wanderers protest ranks as one of the greatest contributions to student life this year or
any other year. If the students only
knew the real story behind this incident and the work attached to the
same, a monument would be erected
to Mr. Barnhill.

And then of course we have the work
of the Council of Students. Under
the guiding hand of Gordon Lea, the

ee college days in the early “nineties” | funds Re RRCEN my Mend grey beards, the constitutionaliste, ‘or
of the last century and speak briefly of | dents. Here we may expect, there will NI Burs ‘auch: interese | what have(you, had a. wonderful year
_ Professor Macdonald as a _ teacher>| gather, at the reunion ccremonies of SNe re ee et re aint :

     
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  

| He had an original and inimitable
_ method of investing mathematical
problems with a strange, new interest,

© SS es

a

 

dinary stains.

 

A Complete Cleaning Service
for Adi Garments and Fabrics

Cousins Sanitone Cleaning is equally effective

in renewing all types of garments and fabrics.

food spots, and imbedded dirt, as well as as or
Call Lorne 2323 for Quality Cleaning Service.
One trial will show you why Sanitone is nation
ally recognized as a superior cleaning method.

- COUSINS Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers

1938, many of his old students and
friends to exchange memories of him
and other Dalhousians of the past.

—

manifested debating
LaPetite Leo Landreville, the fiery little
Frenchmen, who champions the cause

of public speaking at Dalhousie de
been in

served congratulations for his efforts
in making Sodales a household word
throughout the Maritimes
recent Med versus Law debate was as
a crowning achievement to an already
wonderful year.

DALHOUSIE ON THE AIR—A
very successful innovation this year
Here congratulations are in order to
“Demosthenes” and Mr. Fisher. The
radio program adds another link in
the life of the University and in add
 

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

 

MARTIN’S LTD.

—Diamond Merchants—

GIFT HEADQUARTERS

Spring Garden Road
B-7487

 

. . . ~
. .
.
. . .
«
. . . .
e a y
~ .
. . .
. .
r
- .
*_*
f
I “
“
. .
© >
.
. .

The work of the constitution committee
is particularly deserving of commendation.

The Dramatic Movement saw the
rapid growth of a new idea this year...
and Dalhousie saw its first high class
presentation. Thank you, Professor
Bennett, Pat MacDonald, George
Murphy, Mary Marsh, Caustaih’s, Steve
and the rest.

But we have overlooked the Dalhousie Band. They played at football
games, hockey matches and _ hoop
exhibitions, these puff and_ bellow
artists....To Gordon Thompson and
those participating we offer our congratulations.

In addition to all these there are

No matter whether it is a filmy dress or a heavy : a, matters worthy of commenation...

suit, Sanitone will remove perspiration odors, DRU GS There is a new spirit in evidence at
Dalhousie. More moderate, in _ its

tone, more even in its temper and generally more beneficial to student life...
You saw it at the Law Ball....You
saw it again at the Millionaires Mardi
Gras....

The Charity Idea... .First it was the
Delta Gamma Society which staged a
dance for Charity....then the Com
merce Department....with the now
a Sale gg famous Mardi Gras and finally the
peep ries hp : ‘T0c Glee Club who garnered the total of
FELT HATS He ee 50c : $60.00 for the stricken refugees in the
PLAIN DRESSES. ..... .$1.00 MacLeod, Balcom flooded districts of the United States. .
WHITE TROUSERS.......... 75c ,
WHITE. COATS .4. 4.05. 4.5 1025 Limited

G. FRED DAY

Popular New Council President

 

Large Audience
Enjoys Debate

The chairman, Leo A. Laendre-ille,
opened the evening with humorous
definitions of theterms of the resolution.
Mr, I. Mercer, law student, opened the
fire with some well directed proofs
that lawyers are much more of a
necessity than any other professionals
including doctors. He maintained that
the Bible itself recognizes the lawyer
as more useful. Everything that makes
the world go round is tied up with Law.
Mr. Arthur Ormiston, first speaker for
the negative, contended that the key
note to every human activity is health
and that this in turn depends on medicine and its conscientoius practitioners.

udge R. H. Murray stepped up with
the bubbling wit for which he is so well
known. He tore to shreds the opponents, arguments with amusing sarcasm
and kept the iarge audience constantly
on the alert. But it was not long before
Dr. W. D. Forrest had the stand to make
snappy and cunning come-backs.

Taking all in all, the debate was un
doubtedly one of the most amusing |.

meetings of the year. The four speeches, with the aid of a microphone and
amplifier, were enjoyed thoroughly.
A fictitious verdict was rendered by the
chairman, one judge holding for the
supremacy of lawyers, the other for
doctors and the third judge maintaining that neither was useful.

The debate proved many things.
First that, students will not attend a
debate even when it is guaranteed to be
humourous, for there were but a dozen
students lost amongst approximately
three hundred people; secondly that the
installation of a small and inexpensive
set of amplifiers would remedy or aid
greatly towards better acoustics in the
gym; and thirdly that the Sodales Debating Society has indeed had a banner

vear.

 
 

DO YOU KNOW—

That

he Dalhousie has a
‘“‘Dictator’’?
2. That the Glee Club spent

$90 for the scenery for ‘‘Hay

Fever’’?

3. That Dalhousie has a perfect election system?

4. That law practically supports the University?

5. That ‘fas Medicine goes, so
goes Dalhousie’’?

6. That our gymnasium
needs a house cleaning?

 
 

—_— —

In our opinion there has been a notable improvement in practically every
student organization this year, yes,
even the Gazette.

When the College Term is near an end, and we are
leaving with all the memories of good times spent
together, what is a more appropriate gift to cur friends

than a—

PERFECT PORTRAIT OF OURSELVES

CLIMO,

501 BARRINGTON STREET

Phone: B7665

 

a a : = t (
“ aos ; } . ~ _— : — ‘ , =
ai ‘ is ott c > ; ee , ~ a > io . “ a af
a= p 1 eat * = aid ss y &
‘ch | : tan a a! ee eee ee f : s “ ;
} ao ie " ol rae OU ee pa “ oon we te te a 7
25 be PT Ene ee bie ane ea :
at: Che SP me a ay > A oe 4 é » ,
Ph aoe ek: etme ac Sb, Neate) a Mca
er eT eee oh a ST) Sel ok =
ae eet , = ai TE ee fe ee LF ee oe eee F anilt, fm yr ka =

 

 

   
   
 
  
   
  
    
 
    
    
 

Page Five

Spring In The Air
Yes, spring is in the air,

You see signs everywhere,

The gym’s becoming bare,
Exams are drawing near.

The library once more

Hears footsteps on the floor,
The banging of its door
Wakes those inclined to snore.

The classes skipped are few,
And those of us who do,
Make our excuses true

In order to get through.

The path from U. K. C.
Is wet as it can be,

No pavement there we see
From Class of ’83.

When Munro Day is here
The sad fact becomes clear,
That the end of the year

Is most certainly here.

The Gazette's off the press
For the last time—no less
And this poor poetess

Has penned her final mess

Liberal Letdown

To the Editor
Dalhousie Gazette

 

Dear Sir:

Apparently tradition means nothing
to the youthful wing of the Liberal
party. For over fifty years some of
Canada’s great Statesmen have been
groomed in the annual sessions of the
famous Law School Mock Parliaments,
The group in the Law School supporting the party in power at Ottawa have
always formed a government. This
year however, for some unknown reason
the liberals have broken with tradition and have made no move to form
a government. Surely with matters
of National defence, consolidation of
transport departments, foreign policy
etc., there is no lack of subject matter.

Their failure to call Parliament cannot be assigned to liberal apathy because Premier Angus L. MacDonald’s
political organization and almost daily
appeals to the electorate, nullify any
thing as apathy. The failure

So
cannot be for lack of leaders for among

 

the group is the recently chosen President of the Twentieth Century Liberal
club of Nova Scotia, J. Smith MaclIvor.
Surely he hasn't reached the political
age of “tied hands”, although perhaps
his frequent addresses to the female
section of the Young Liberals may
account for something. Then too,
there is the pride of Antigonish—T.
Wilkie Grant. Surely he isn’t just an
erstwhile Minister of Agriculture. How
about the promised agrarian reform?
Perhaps his recent adventures into the
different world of diplomatic intrigue
as Britain’s Anthony Eden in the Model
League of Nations has closed his ears
to the cries of the discontented husbandmen.

In addition to these two Grit movers
the shirking liberals have still another
stalwart—He is the voice of Quebec
and was born as defeat closed in on
Laurier. In fact, Sir Wilfred is still
an active figure in his political life,
Laurier’s facsimile imaginatively appears on every bailot. -Bourassa’s
insurgence fired his. imagination in
early youth and today Lapointe is his
political god—Yet. even these spirits
failed to move Leo Albert Landreville,
B. A. What a sting for the founders of
The Twentieth Century Liberal Club
of Canada. Vincent Massey and Senator Wilson have spent a fortune in an
effort to form a strong youthful wing
to The Liberal party.

Think of it—J. Smith
President and a “brand new” president
of this Twentieth Century Club in
Nova Scotia a province that for over
forty years was governed by a liberai
regime. Worse than that, Premier
Angus L. Macdonald has balanced his
budget and Honourable Mr. McMillan
paved the roads so that these young
Liberals would be inspired with Liberal
fight. What a gallant fight to break
with law school tradition of over fifty
years—a tradition that has meant
much to some of Canada’s greatest
statesmen.

Let it be hoped that the ‘“‘mediums”’
have not communicated this Liberal
letdown to Sir Wilfred for a man that
did so much for Canada is in after life
entitled to a rest. undisturbed.

Surely a Conservative majority
in the Law School has nothing to
do with this “Liberal letdown.’’

Maclvor,

CURIOUS TORY

 

 
  
    

2 Oia Gazette, 4
Sate N. a

ee | Gentlemen:

April 30, 1936.
to Surplus.

Harold Renouf,

   
   
 
  

Be The. ‘Dalhousie Univesity Store
2 > Beastees submit the following state‘ments of the Store for the year ended

Bespetttully submitted,

Manager, Book Dept.

They state that, as of December 81,
1936, a further addition has been made

    

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

The Mouthpiece

HIGH COST OF GRADUATION

For the student of limited means
whose home is not in Halifax, graduation is an expensive event. With the
exception of seniors writing honour
papers, most graduates have a period

|of almost two weeks to fill in before

Convocation. -This means that the
prospective graduate is faced with a
four horned dilemma. He may stay

jin Halifax and pay two weeks extra

board; or he may go home and return
in time for Convocation, but this may
cost more than staying, if he has any
distance to go; or he may give up the
pleasure of attending his own graduation and pay a considerable fee to
the University for conferring his
degree in absentia although all the
extra costs involved is postage for a
Latin scroll; or lastly he may forego
receiving the degree he has justiy
earned. In all the cases but the last
it costs money no matter which course
is chosen, and if he chooses to give up
the degree he looses recognition for

four years or more of hard work and

considerable expense.

DICTATORSHIP

Is Dalhousie an institute of learning
in a Democratic country or merely a
concentration camp governed on principles similar to those existing in Italy
and Germany today?

Recently two science students, doing
post-graduate work, were engaged in
carrying out an important experiment
which could only be conducted at
night and which required considerable
time for completion. In the midst of
their work they were interrupted by

the janitor of the building who ordered

them out, as he claimed it was after
closing time, and by no amount of
reasoning could he be persuaded to
allow them to remain, although they
had permission of their professor to
use the laboratory at night. Thus
they had all their work for naught as
by its nature it could not be continued

later, and the experiment remains un
completed because a janitor has a rule
which he will not.relax, no matter what

_| the circumstances,

_—-s DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY STORE
ae BALANCE SHEET
E “my : April 30th, 1936
ere ASSETS
2 Current:
tat: Ciahe ir lester a S AT
ss Inventory: . $ 388. 08
Accrued Interest
=+ +> Receivable: . 9.41
ye 3 = ———— $ 895.14
bee Investments. .......--- 590. 00
~ _ Fixed
ioe - Equipment. . 128, 60
b. 1 oS ‘sieesst* Res. | for
be eet?” of
: Equipment. . 14.47
Poe ae —— 114 18
Deferred Charges:
ot Supplies Deans ances Le5 3 7.25
ee $1,606 .52
Saree = LIABILITIES
eer
ae Current:
ey ___ Accounts Payable
Second Hand |
Bn  eokias. -«'s's 58.61
em Seem ay or, .).0'6 8:1 2,047.92
had ) ‘ $1,606.52
ADING AND PROFIT

"STATEMENT

    
  
    
    
    
   
    
    
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
      
 
     
    
  
      
 

“TRADING

"Sales New Books
- Less:Cost of Sales of New
Books
Inventory May 2,
: 429 .73
~ Purchases—3,030 .49
Freight in & Express—85.07
~~ Excise Tax—28 .52
aa

= ~ 8,144.08
ie 8,573 .81
. iy Less: Inventory
April 80th, 1936. 431.20

Be ie’ x
. pt Gross Profit New Books.....

P

- Sales—Second Hand Books
¥ Be CF Less: Cost of Sales
. i. Second Hand
Be Bdolegick sce sd < 383 .65
» Purchases... ...... 341 .24

 
      
  
  
  

 
 
 
  
  

   
  
  
    

‘ " Se
*. ve a te ‘Year ended April 30th, 1936. :

3,694 .12

3,142 .61

551 .51

> Books RNR heh ep e Kn. ok eth 41 31
GROSS TRADING PROFIT 5938.82
PROFIT & LOSS

 

There is altogether too much dictatorship by different authorities at Dalhousie, but the limit is reached when a
lesser employee can interfere with
students’ work.

BOON TO TRAVELLERS

Mr. J. R. Johnston (Univ. of
Toronto) under the auspices of
the National Federation of Canadian Universities, is in London
at Canada House, Trafalgar
Square, each morning from
May to September for the express
purpose of helping in every

possible way Canadian University students intending to travel
or study in Europe during the

summer months. Information
of every kind is available, whether
it covers ways of travelling
cheaply or courses of study.
Information about your trip
before, can be had by writing
to him at Hart House, University of Toronto.

Less: Comm. Trans. to Sur
ER as eect ota & © EK, « 75.00
$ 241.12
RECONCILIATION OF SURPLUS

ACCOUNT

As at April 30th, 1936

Balance May 2nd, 1935.....
Less:Expenses—

Student Service. . 100 .00
Don. Magazines

Sheriff Hall. ... 80 .90
Don. Men’s Com
mon Room.... 19.78
Audit Fees....... 17 .50

168.18
————= 1306.79

Add:
Net Profit Year ended April,
Seb 19GG i ee cas baie! ts, ORG ES

Balance April 30th, 1936...

Auditors:

RG kis tee: 593 .82
Less: Expenses—
Salaries. ....... .. 125.00
Insurance........ 8.88
Telephone & TeleES ee 27.91
Stationery, Printing & Postage. . 33 .06
General Expense.. 11.78
3 Be ering phx ve % 10 .00
- Bad Debts.. 10 .00
ae ee —
iléestelation—-Inis = yentory..«....- 44 Al
ee mie, 280.15
Net Profit on Sales...... .. 818.67
_ Add: Other Income— _
Hp Interest Received. 11.27
| Be Ee een: Gi 8.82 ,
p. ‘ 2.45
ss ey 816.12

 

Lloyd, Egan & Co.

 

 
     
  

 
  
 

$1,547 .91}

Various Verse

Little wonder that Foreigners tear
their hair trying to unravel the vagaries
of the English language.
few samples of limericks which might
well be used to demonstrate a few little
oddities in our pronunciation.

A nasty but candid old Colonel

Once advertised in a jolonel

For a “servant quite subtle,

To Valet and bubtle,

Yet be deaf to his swearing infolonel.”

Once a young woman named Meagher

In the hundred-yard dash was a
steagher;

Her limbs more athletic

Than slim or aesthetic,

Carried her feagher beyond peagher.

A young engineer named Dumaresq
Completed design of a derresq,

The machine, ona run,

Broke down ‘neath a ton,

So Dumaresq, hysteresq, turned cleresq.

There was a young girl in the choir,
Whose voice rose up hoir and hoir;
She forced it so high

It went up in the skigh, .

And was found next day in the spoir,

 

Commerce Report

The Commerce Society announces
the financial result of the Millionaires,
Ball held in part for the benefit of
charity:

 

Receipts for tickets. ...... .. .. $127.00
Donations:
PMO Be el vee oa 4k 5.00
Halifax Disdwate. sae 6a) 5. 00
Anonymous. .... 5. 00
Total Receipts. ..... .$142.00
Expenses. ...... x « S935
Net Receipts..... ..$ 22.85

The Society felt that one-half of this
amount would not be a sufficiently
large contribution to charity. It de
cided, therefore, to send $8.00 to the

Goodfellows’ Club, and $8.00 to the
Good Samaritans. Acknowledgement
has been received from one of these.

Companies which contributed merchandise were:

Marvin’s (Biscuits).

Farmer's (Ice Cream Bars).

Coca Cola Co. (Coca Cola).

Professor MacDonald has checked
the accuracy of the above statements.

GORDON SIMPSON,
President.

 

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages

including
Dublin Dry Ginger Ale
Donovan’s Orange Juice
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

B 6821

45 Granville St.

 

 

THOMAS WALLAGE

SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“Tf You Want to See Well See
Wallace”

 

   

Here are a],

 

| Does Fine Work

 

EDWARD BARNHILL

The “Mussolini” of Dalhousie athletics who completed a two year term
of office leaving a splendid record of
achievement, “Barney” is a tireless
worker in all phases of campus activities. His b’arskin coat is seen every
where—at Forum, gym, and football
field strenuously upholding Dalhousie’s
rights. Dalhousie sport suffers a great
loss with his passing from active service.

Medicos Dine

The Medical Society of Dalhousie
University held its annual banquet
in the Halifax Hotel on Saturday
evening. Over one hundred persons
were in attendance with the faculty
and local members of the medical profession in prominence.

Carl Trask, president of the Medical Society, acted as chairman and
toastmaster for the occasion.

 

More flavour
—yet milder

March 15th, 1987

Views On News |The End Cometh

A few weeks back one Halifax newspaper was very upset over the question
of civic reform. Lately we have heard
little on the subject. What is the
reason? Did the storm just naturally
blow itself out?

 

While the U. S. Congress. was considering legislation to stop trading with
Japan the members of St. .Mark’s
Church in New York gathered to
unveil a tablet to the memory of Commodore M, C. Perry who, backed by
American warships about 80 years
ago, compelled Japan to open her ports
to trade with the United States. So
history does not always repeat itself
as we are led to believe.

Fifty False Killer whales committed
suicide on the rocky coast of South

Africa recently. The reason for the
mass “hari-kari’’ is believed to be in
an undersea disturbance. Evidently

whales like the Japanese have their
troubles too, in this world.

 

“Full many a_ flower is born to
blush unseen’’ said Thomas Gray, but
that didn’t happen to Fiorelli (Little
Flower) da Guardia, Mayor of New
York. He recently referred to Hitler
as “that brown-shirted fanatic who is
now menacing the peace of the world’”’.
The German Press is in full hue and
cry after him: ‘‘Jewish Villian’, Gangster-in-Chief”, “Dirty Talmud Jew”,
are only a few of the epithets which
have been applied to him. And so we
find that it is not “the desert air’ upon
which, Fiorelli has ‘wasted his sweetness’’,

“A police surgeon in Philadelphia
says one is sober if he is able to say
‘Susie sat in the soup’.

The one we wonder about is Susie’.

— Halifax Patly Star.

  
 

Bucking

CIGARETTES

   

Thanking Students

—For The Year’s Patronage—
We Wish the

Class Every Success in Life

      
 
   
   
  
   

Graduating

and
The Undergraduates
A Very Pleasant Summer

When in the Mood for Food

Remember

BLAKELEY’S
RESTAURANT
43 Spring Garden Rd.

GIVE US A RING

HALIFAX TAXI

COMFORT

COURTESY
CONVENIENCE

B 7376 B 9644

 

CE RSE REE SECRETE ESTO PLE ESSE EIT NEP EL EEE TS IRE)

SHOES!

EVERYBODY WANTS NEW SHOES

SHOES!

 

 
  
  
  
   
     

B-8571

We are now showing our new Spring Shoes for both

men and women

Priced from 2,95 to 7.50

FIT-RITE SHOE STORE

170 QUINPOOL ROAD

SHOES!

   
 

 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  

A. T. Johnson, Prop.

(From “The Second Book of Bunc’’)

And now as ‘tis said in the song, the
end doth come. Verily the year draws
swiftly to a close. Once again the
geem will be filled to overflowing and
the voice of the Herbee will be raised in
resonant tones saying, Hear ye of the
Feelozofee Class, Put manuscripts in
books that are separate and distinct
and there will be the same stamping
by the mob, for lo, have they not done
so year in and year out?

And the midnight oil will burn
brightly and they who take Biol from
the son of Haze will tear their locks in
despair as they pore over the many
manuscripts and the morphol of the
nervous Seestems; while they of the
Med tribe will bemoan their ignorance
of the Anatomee and Prak Anatomee
and also the five hundred sheets of
Pathol that is given by the Raleff of
Smeet. Verily the Mainland will not
judge tutorials with the capers in the
Glee Kloob, nor will the dancing of the
gypsies give passes unto the residents
of the fortress of Shee-Ref-Yawl.

Many will now leave the land of Dal
but unto the tribe of Law it has been
said, ye must give unto the coffers
twenty shekels ere you obtain your degree, and alas the tribe is sadly impoverished.,

And the Gazziett will be laid aside
for many months. Then shall Garyee
the overseer of the workers of Makknabb rest from the toils of the Gazziett
and Keigy and Dougie, the chieftains,
shall have peace again.

Thus doth the chronicler bid farewell. To them whose names have apbook,
For lo, all
Verily our Jife
Let
and

of the

peared in the kolumnz
he requests their pardon.
was writ in kindliness.
is touched with
there then be a touch of humour
Bunce.

Many sorrows,

J, Louis Dubinsky.

Spring Showing

Just two weeks

’till Easter—-no time to lose—

Order your NEW SUIT
and TOP COAT today

Our new stock is now complete and a display

ready for your selection.

New styles, new fabrics,

sizes, models and prices to suit all men.

See our feature value,

Suits at

$21.50

Made-to-Measure or Ready-to-Wear.

Colwell Brothers Ltd.

The English Shop

453-457 BARRINGTON ST.

 
  
 
 
  
    
  
    
  
 
  
   
    
  
  
   
     
    
    
  
    
 

3 Train ‘Students
p To Serve Public

Plans for Dalhousie’s new course in
af = iblic Administration are now nearing

i ‘completion. Under leadership of Pro____ fessors R. A. MacKay and Lother Rich+ a ter, the Institute of Public Affairs has

brought leaders in Canadian political

and economic life here to give lectures
2, 3 a4 during this year, and students may have
__ gained some idea of the importance of
ni abe proposed course from these lec
| ‘The new Course in Public Admin- istration offers attractive possibilities
+ for students interested in the field of
public affairs. The course inciudes
ee: _ related classes from economics, political
science, history and law. It will or: 2 dinarily require five years work after
Grade XI, as do other honour courses.
Students will take the ordinary work
ae for the first two years in Arts and Commerce before being admitted to the
> Honour Course in Public Administration. They should during these years
B have taken Economics I and Political
5 Science I. It is hoped that it will be
c fe - possible for students proposing to enter
law to complete their first year of law
during the honour course as is pos‘ sible now in the ordinary pass course
in Arts.
The aim of the course is to fit students
for various branches of general administration and for careers such as jour_ nalism which has to do with public affairs, The course is broadly cultural
Be a rather than technical and it is hoped
Bais Bi that a student on completion of the
A ‘course will have a good general knowee of economic and political probee lems of the day and more particularly,
— those relating to Canada. It should be
particularly useful for prospective law
i students, especially if they are considering entering a political career.
--‘- In addition to the undergraduate
Soya urse it is proposed to develop a course

re

ot

    
   
      
  
   
    
    
    
   
 
  
  
     
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
     
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
  
  

a!

eT
ae
ey

, ane a

ates of Dalhousie or other institutions.

ad st

fs,  apparen Governments are being
Se aegeliad,: very often against their
i af, wishes, to take on many new responsiee bilities, especially in economic and
__ gocial fields. To carry out its many
- a tasks efficiently a government requires
| La ‘an administrative staff of high ability
is eae and sound education, otherwise inefee ficiency and waste are likely to add to
the costs. Special training for prospective civil servants has long been
provided by the University of London.
'___ More recently several other universi- ties throughout the British Empire
= have begun to provide this training,
as have also a few American universities, notably Harvard and Chicago.
Until recently no Canadian university
‘has undertaken work in this field.
‘Dalhousie is, therefore, a pioneer in
Offering this course, as it was when it
established the first academic law school
jn Canada more than half a century ago.

_ Students interested are requested to
consult the Professor of Political Science before the end of term, It is
hoped that two or three scholarships will
be available.

—_——o0—__—_

 Freshettes Farewell

- Well, it won’t be long now, Freshmen,
-before we are the “Sophisticated Sophomores” and looking for revenge. Let’s
. try to make the coming Freshmen less
-—s uneasy and get rid of his inferiority
- eomplex rather than make it worse.
We all make mistakes but that is no
reason for us profiting by them. The
fate of the poor unfortunate Freshman
ies in (the capable?) hands of the
Freshmen Representative. May he
take p genuine interest in their welfare—
stress the importance of dues and cap
~ able executives (not that we have any
kick concerning the latter), We would
like to suggest that the Freshman Representative ‘‘just be around’’ to tip
them off tothe seemingly unimportant
and trivial things—for instance—the
class representative on the Students’

7 E es my, the exams ) and we are almost

___ sorry that we are no longer the young
and innocent Freshmen,

TWO FRESHETTES.

Fi study leading to an M. A. degree | |
ig _ which | will be open to qualified gradu- | g

i a ali “The teaed for special training for|
‘fe a re for the public service is|

Down Memory Lane

‘‘From our Files.’’

Halifax Girls in 1840. “Halifax
ladies, we are bound both in truth and
gallantry to say are very handsome
andaccomplished. In dress they study
neatness as well as richness and beauty:
and in dancing they do not make the
active motion of the limbs the leading
occupation. They appear as if placed
on the floor for conversation—and enjoyment, and when the music woos
them to dance, they slide gracefully and
naturally into it, as if without physical
exertion.”

The N. S. Royal Gazette, Aug. 5,

-1840:—

“Women are women, and it would be
decidedly unwomanly to walk or drive
to the polls and drop into the ballot
box a piece of- paper. They are entirely too delicate and tender for such
tremendous trying work, it would rob
them of all their sweet, dignified, retiring modesty. Such lovely, precious
bunches of humanity exist only to be
petted, caressed, protected, loved and
ever guarded by a manly form from
every care and trouble in life. Being
man’s helpmate and equal is an amusing absurdity. A woman’s chief aim
in life should be to marry and ever after
attend to cooking and household matters. The question of voting should
never enter her mind. A woman is
not a person, not legally; she is an inferior creature. The brain of woman
proves her inferiority. Woman has
no reasoning powers, her's are intuition, not judgment. Can you imagine
the effect of such a living creature having a vote and regulating the laws of
our country? And have we not the
authority of Paul when he says women
should be silent in church?”

“A woman is only a woman, but
love is love.”” Trans. from the English
of Prof. Jewitt.

“Ora et labora” is translated by a
Freshman, ‘‘Praying is laborious.”

A certain city undertaker has his
eve on some of our hopeless grinds;
he sets them down for sure gain, and
is patiently waiting till Exams are over.

National Crimes

Japan licenses prostitution.
Nova Scotia sells rum.
Russia burns Bibles
Germany persecutes Jews.

Italy murders women.
China exposes infants.
Spain torments animals

NICE COMPANY.

FOG
(With apologies to Carl Sandburg)

The fog comes

On little cat feet—

About the time of examinations—

It sits looking over desk and chair
On silent haunches;

Then moves on.

Only, sometimes it stays.

Or would you prefer the following:
Finals, finals, everywhere,

With gobs and gobs of ink,

And never a Prof who'll leave the room
And allow a guy to think.

 

 

Hopeless Highbrow

Quote from “Views on News”. “‘It
is debatable just what good is done, by
articles written to create a disturbance.
We suggest that columns should be
written well enough and contain enough
material to interest people, rather than
g(u—)age their importance and success
by the number of angry replies they
receive from the long-suffering Gazette
readers’’—That is the second-finest example of condensed bilge that we have
ever had the misfortune to read (re
member Wally and the _ initiation
letter?). My poor misguided V. O. N.,

didn’t anyone ever tell you that it Lihes
all sorts to make a world? You ought
to be writing for the Dalhousie Review,
Believe it or not, there are actually
some people who enjoy the noisy and
the vulgah, and the Gazette must
necessarily cater to all tastes. We,
for example, were set the task of trying
to stir up a row (and veddy distasteful
it was, indeed we can assure you).
Well, we succeeded a bit too nicely for
our own good, were forced to retire in
disorder, and gave someone else the
task. Through the. medium of our
column, he took a few neat cracks at
certain of the local citizenry. So,
said local citizenry retaliated in due
course and a good time was had by all,
including the “long-suffering Gazette
readers.”’ All very low and common of
course but what the hell- we live in an
elementary world. You go around
doing good. We're tired.

BOXING MEET

The rather unhealthy aroma left in
the local pugilistic atmosphere after

THANK YOU

In this their last issue the Editors of the Gazette wish to thank
all those who aided them in their
efforts during the year. Parti
cularly do their thanks go to the
Halifax Herald and to the Halifax Chronicle, to Mr. Hector McInnes, and to the large staff of
writers to whose efforts is due
whatever success we have had,

 

the .unveiling of the recent ArcelliHorwitz “ringer’’ farce was generally
believed to have dealt Halifax boxing
a fatal blow. The fans can only be
brought back to the ringside on a
definite guarantee that the encounter
was strictly on the level, with both
participants involved holding a mutual
purpose—that of winning the bout, and
putting up a real show in the accomplishment of their intentions.

And so, naturally, we come to the
subject of the intercollegiate boxing
meet which is being held here nest Tuesday. We've seen two or three of these
meets, and the only trouble we've noticed is that the boxers go into the ring
a little over-anxious to commit mayhem on their opponents. Prolonged
and vigourous action is the order of the
day, and it looks as though the meet
will be one of the most attractive sport
events that Dal has staged in a long
time,

SYNOPSIS

And so we bid our readers, helpers,
editors, critics and fellow-columnists
a fond farewell until next year, It’s
been very enjoyable writing this column
every week, even though nobody else
did like it. We've kept out all but the
nicest dirt, we’ve praised few and slammed many, we've carefully refrained
from presenting any flashes or scoops,
we've left out the joke “‘fillers,”’ we've
retired with more discretion than valour when we found ourselves a little out
of our depth, we've kept the column
clean with a couple of excusable slips,
and we've presented two guest writers,
one of whom was a veritable sensation,
That is about the sum total of our
achievements. If you didn’t like it,
you didn’t have to read us (and you
probably didn’t), So long.

epee nome

Patriotism has always been a quality
.connected with Dal co-eds, but, remembering the World War, we were
greatly grieved at seeing Fran Martel
and Mary Miles chasing two German
sailors up Coburg Rd. Wednesday
afternoon.

Meyer’s Studios

PHOTO FINISHING

Special Rates to Students

426 Barrington St.

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETT GAZETTE:

 

University To
Her Graduates

For four years gone I took you to my
breast,

A youth you came, I gave yeu of my
best.

These ivied walls a century and more

For honest thought a fine tradition bore;

Teachers you had, to such as you devote,

And books in which men with their lifeblood wrote

Of the march of mind;
too,

Where lonely Science could her quest
pursue;

And benefactions rare,

All these were yours,
time is spent;

and laboratories

magnificent,
and now your

From me you go. I wonder why you came

Was it to vainly decorate your name?

Or, mid your mates, a haughty brow
erect?

But I of you far worthier things expect;

I trust you go out with a growing mind,

That in the world a useful niche you'll
find;

By motives of mere lucre never swayed,

By you the cause of Truth never be
trayed.

My blessing take along; and so farewell—

The after years your stay’s import will
tell.

eg Lowis Fraser B. A. (Dal.
5: J . (Dal). '04

 

CAPITOL

Canada’s Most Beautiful Theatre

Tues. Wed. Thur.

“BELOVED
ENEMY”’

with
BRIAN
AHERNE

Mon.

MERLE
OBERON

Fri.,
JESSIE MATTHEWS
‘Head Over Heels In Love’

Sat.

Watch for big special attractions during March and April.

 

Page Seven

ESENTS PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION COURSE

 

Medical Epilogue

Another banner year of university
activity comes to a close with this issue
of the Gazette. That Medicine has not
been in the background in Dalhousie’s
renaissance may well be noticed when
one pursues events of this notable
college year.
Strong in numbers, the Medical
Student body have given of their time
and energy to help rebuild student life
at this school of ours. No phase of
undergraduate activity has escaped
their attention—D. A. A. C., Students’
Council, Athletic teams, Gazette, Medical Journal, Year Book, Glee Club,
etc. All have benefited by the experience which a longer stay at college have
given them. The active interest they
show in Campus activities should not
be considered selfish—rather it is a
notable and expansive display of their

will to cooperate in the interests of
Dalhousie.

In their own sphere they have been
ever more active. The Students’ Medical Society, the Dalhousie Medical
Journal, the Med. Ball, and the
Med Banquet have all shown new signs
of life and in their relative classes were
the best of the year. Who can forget
the glamorous Med Ball, or who can
doubt that last week’s banquet topped
all student events of the year? Who
can question the value of the student
Medical Journal Dalhousie’s
prestige?

And Medicine, like the other
faculties bids a fond adieu though somewhat reluctantly, to a year which will
long be remembered as a banner one
at Dalhousie. Farewell 1936-37, let’s
all continue our efforts for an even
better 1937-38.

to

so,

 

THANK YOU

In this, the last issue of the

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

for this season, we take the opportunity of expressing

our sincere appreciation to Faculty and Students

for their continued patronage.

We trust that our service has been in every way satis
factory to you, and that this pleasant business relation
ship may long continue.

 

456-460 Barrinton St.

 

EATON’S

 

 

SPRING SUITS and

For MEN and YOUNG MEN
Offered In A Wide Variety
at EATON’S

THE SUITS

Snappy double breasted models are featured
There is also a good
range of single breasted style suits for your
selection at EATON’S. Materials show new
shades and patterns and include fine quality
all wool worsted and tweeds.
now while selections are complete
for men and young men.

21.50 to 35.00
THE TOPCOATS

Genuine Harris all wool tweeds in new Spring
patterns and shades and other fine all wool
materials from English and domestic mills

in this Spring’s suits.

shown in the new topcoats.
loose fitting slip-ons,

each

ATO

"MARITIMES

&

ulsters,
and popular guard models in the range.
suitable for men and young men.

15.00 to 35.00

EATO N’S MAIN FLOOR

Choose yours
Models
Priced At, suit

There are raglans,
Balmaccans
Styles
Priced At,

0
LIMITEp

 

TOPCOATS

 

 

 
  
      
  
   
  
 

 

 

 

 

Students
Demand
Proper
Running
of Gym!

 
 

Hockey Sportraits

 

 

KORETSKY Corky turned in a brilliant performance in his first year in the
Goal nets. Is the team’s most valuable man this year. In his odd
moments he emulates Bing Crosby. Saw service in both
Senior and Intercollegiate Leagues,
FAHIE Don guarded the citadel in several senior games. This was
Goal his first year in senior company. He previously played in
St. Mary’s College Interfaculty League.
MacGREGOR Don received the name of “Birdman” on the Mt. A. trip.
Right The reason must be a secret. His rushes up the ice thrill the
Defense crowd and usually result in a tally for Dal. Plays a heady
game in _senior_ hockey.
CARROLL “Rotund’”’ is
Left captain of the
Defense senior team.
His weight
makes him a
valuable man
on the rearguard. Always
can be depended
upon on when
the going gets
rough. Johnny
has turned literary for next
year. Will
graduate from
Education this
year.
CORSTON Bob is a newcomer. Played for Halifax Academy last year.
Left Played both senior and intercollegiate. Bob is a fast skater
Defense and back checks well.
BEER Ken played for the Charlottetown Abbies last year. Was the
Left backbone of the intercollegiate defense and played well in
‘Defense the senior games. Has a shot that makes the goalies tremble.
GRAHAM Jimmie is the most consistent player on the senior team. He
Right is always effective and certainly can closely check his man.
Wing Jimmie is the quietest man on the team. Was he quiet at
Mt, A?
COHN Eddie is the captain of the intercollegiate team as well as
Centre patrolling the centre lane for the senior team. Is very effeative around the opposing goal. Receives his B. Com. this
year.
DEWOLFE Pooh played his second year on the senior team. Is one of
Left the fastest skaters. He is an iron man always wanting to
Wing play full time. His name will be found in scoring column
every game,
NAPIER Spearhead played both intercollegiate and senior. Was one
Left of Dal’s highest scorers this year. He was the playmaker of
Wing many goals, Is his first year on the team proved himself a

dependable man,

The Sports Editor is still looking for Buckley, Conn, Dickie, Mullane and

Manager Sheehan for an interview.

 

Interfaculty Review

Interfaculty sport this year started
slowly, but gradually more interest was
shown in the various sports. The
faculties that participated were, Arts &
Science, Engineering, Dentistry, Medicine, Commerce, Law and Freshmen.

Hockey started in the middle of
February. The teams were divided
into groups, Freshmen, Law and Arts
and Science in one and Medicine, Dentistry, Commerce, Engineers in the
other. Arts and Science beat the
Freshmen badly by a score of 8-2 while

* the Medicine easily won their division.

The ruling of the D. A. A. C. that players who also play Inter-Collegiate
Hockey can only stay two interfaculty
games ruined the chances for Arts and
Science. They were beaten by Medicine 6-1, 5-2; both teams played well
but in both games Medicine certainly
had the edge.

_ A good brand of softball was played
throughout the whole series. Medi
 

 

cine and Dentistry reached the finals
The committee decided on a -sudden
death game, the Meds won by a slim
score of 4-3; during the whole game
the play was even and at the 9th inning
it was 3-3 but at the 10th the final bid
was made by Medicine.

Basketball started directly after
Christmas and is not over yet. Engineers beat Law thereby reaching the
finals and are now playing against Arts
and Science. The first of two games
were played on Thursday, Engineers
winning by 31-11. At half time the
score was 13-8 in favor of Engineers.
Throughout the whole game Engineers dominated the play. Arts and

Science made the biggest blunder by
not playing their star player; he started
to play but was called off just after the
first whistle; certainly they would have

had more chance if they had not been
so pig headed.

goal has been blasted
behind the opposing
goalie and by the
time this appears on
the campus the last
ball has _ slipped
through the hoop.
Another great ath
 

5 letic year has faded
out —Protests — Victories — Defeats
— Moral Successes — Injured heroes

and just plain heroes contributed his or
her individual share for the common
cause.

Each through his individual share
has contributed something for the
good of ‘ole Dalhousie and her students
the same way it happened in years gone
by and the same way it will happen in
years to come.

 

Youngsters wonder who will come
up to fill the vacant ranks of the veterans, unaware that they themselves
will answer the call when the whistle
blows another year. Unaware, that
they themselves are capable of filling
the ranks of the so-called gridiron immortals.

And our elders are always telling
us that the same holds good in the game
of life—there the odds are just as great
—the chance for success is harrassed
with similar difficulties—and so we
must prepare ourselves to meet the current issue and by so doing will be prepared to meet the problems in the
great beyond.

Terribly dramatic for one who classes
himself as a sport writer but the fact
remains that in athletics we are preparing ourselves just the same as we
are in the class room.

What We Won in 1936-37

Not very much—

That is, not very much if you look
at it from the point of view of the
trophies we have brought to Dalhousie.

But Dalhousie revived the game of
rugby in Halifax which had _ been
in a rather decadent state for the past
few years.

For some reason or other the game
had lost its appeal. No longer did the
fans flock to the stands for the annual
show on Saturday afternoon. The
rough and tumble boys just couldn’t
draw a crowd. Old time stars said
that the present crop were spending
too much time at the cocktail bar.
When all of a sudden and without a
word of warning, a team that had taken
a terrific beating from Wanderers in
its first appearance, staged a comeback.
A comeback which instilled new life in
the ole English game and packed the
fans into the various gridfields. Yes,

DALHOUSIE GAZETT! E

SPORT SAGAS

The last try has been|the TIGERS with their meteoric rise
converted. The last|to stardom brought football back.

  
   

 

And despite what a certain local
sports reporter has said—Dalhousie
did win the City Football Title. But
still you can’t convince some people.
Recently we listened in on a prospectus
conversation as to Dalhousie’s chances
in next year’s campaign. It was terrible. The general line of the conver
sation seemed to be ‘‘Who’s going to
fill the ranks depleted through the loss
immorals as Jack Buckley,
Hal Connor, Doug Crease, Cap
Gunter and the rest.’”’ We pause for a
minute and ask you one question.
‘How often last fall did you hear this
“Don McGregor will never
make the grade.’’ And yet the canny
Scot made the grade, indeed he was
one of the big reasons for Dalhousie
victory. There are plenty more from
where MacGregor came from and among
800 students there always will be fifteen
good football players—maybe.

The biggest contribution behind the
scenes came from Dictator Barnhill,
with his masterful handling of the protest situation.

Let’s hope our next manager won't
insist on lugging the boots around,

of such

remark?

No offence, Toby.

BASKETBALL

however

Basketball wasn't so hot this year.
Why, we can’t say. Perhaps there was
trouble in the Tiger camp. Perhaps
there was this and perhaps there was
that. Who knows?

But Dalhousie students certainly
had an opportunity to see Basketball.
The moving of the league games to the
Gym was a big thing for Dal athletics
and if Dalhousie ever produces a winning team were in for a big year.

'36-'387 saw a new Tiger team enter Capt

the league basketball race. The Dal
Grads, they’re in the playoffs right
now and look good to cop honors—
Just one more team to cheer for.

The Shinny experts had a great year.
The Senior hockeyists (In case you
don’t know what shinny means) fared
rather badly. Once more we say they
were playing against terrific odds.
They didn’t have an equal chance with
regard to material.—they couldn’t get
the necessary practice.

But the intercollegiates came very
close to capturing the provincial crown
—and they were merely an afterthought. Had the team been given the
same attention devoted to the Seniors
they might be Maritime Champs.

The logical place for Dalhousie
teams is in an Intercollegiate League.
The sooner we realize it the better.
SO LONG AND WE'LL SEE YOU

NEXT YEAR

HOUSECLEAN THE GYM

The ‘‘College by the Sea”’ is the

proud possessor of one of the finest

gymnasiums in eastern Canada—one of the finest in physical appear
ance, but not in the way in which it is run.

at a low ebb; basketball and the

Interfaculty sports are
minor sports connected with the

gymnasium suffer from lack of coaching; gymnasium schedules are
complicated, confusing, and irregular because there is no concentration of authority and responsibility; and discipline in the gym is

a minus quantity.

The fault may partly lie with the various committees and student
managers—but we suggest that the root cause of the trouble lies deeper. The physical instructor, who is supposed to be a capable man,

should have full charge.

In any event, the students demand an in
vestigation of the problem and a “‘house-cleaning”’ of the gymnasium!

The Sports Editor disclaims all responsibility for the editorial appearing

on this page.

 

   

Hoop Captain

J. D. CREASE

Dal Defeats Y

The Tigers came through with a convincing win on Thursday night to close
up their current basket-ball season in
the right manner. Forcing matters
from the starting whistle, both teams
fought evenly during the first 20 minutes and matched basket for basket in a
fast moving period that ended 17-13
for the Association crew. Dal started
the second stanza with a rushing offensive that built up a commanding
lead never headed by the Y. M. C. A.
The general play of Dalhousie was only
average, but the team showed possibilities of becoming a dagerous contender in the race for next year’s title.
ain Crease, Goudey and Hub
bard shone for the Tigers with their
sparkling offensive work and accurate
shooting.

Dal line-up:—Crease 9, E. Stewart, 2, Storey, Hubbard 8, Goudey 7,
Ideson 4, Shainhouse 2, D. Stewart 1,
Agryn 1, Stech.

 

 

March 15th, 1987

Lively Bouts
Promised Fans

On Tuesday, March 16th at 8.00 p.
m., in the Dalhousie Gymnasium, the
Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing Meet
will swing into action. . This is the first
time that Dal has had an opportunity of
staging the meet since 1934, and considerable time and money are being
spent by the D. A. A. C. in an effort
to put on a real show.

Four colleges have filed their entries,
Dalhousie, U. N. B., St. F. X., and
Mt. A. Dal is entering a team of six
men, U. N. B. and St. F. X. are doing
likewise, and Mt. A. is sending down
three representatives, this being their
first year of intercollegiate competition.

St. F. X. have held the title for the
past four years, but this year it looks
like a wide-open affair with only two
titles, the light-heavy held by Gerry
Giovanetti of St. F. X., and the heavyweight held by Ken Corbett of U. N
B., being defended. Dal aroused with
a new boxing enthusiasm, and with the
best material available since the days
of Big Jim Macleod, looks very good

Norm MacRitchie, 218 pounds of
fast-hitting power holds down the
heavyweight berth. In both the lightheavy aad middleweight classes Dal is
represented by Ron Wallace, freshman
battler and brother of Dan Wallace
present St. F. X. coach, and one-time
Dal holder of the light-heavy and heavy
weight titles. Ted DeWolfe, rangy,
hard-hitting welterweight looks good.
to grab the title in that division. Tommy White, last year’s lightweight finalist will again fight in that class, and

with his smooth, cool, agile boxing
ought to come through with
a win. The featherweight representa
tive is not yet decided upon at the time
of writing. but either Wink Johnson or
Arnold Gottfried will climb between
the ropes for Dal.

The team has worked hard to condition itself and deserves the college’s
support. Rush seats are being sold to
students at 25c each, and an entertaining and exciting evening is promised.

What Badminton Needs

Three prerequisites are imperative | benefactor reading this will feel im
if badminton is to flourish and succeed
at colleges: 1. Subsidized shuttles.
2. Enthusiastic players. 3. Competition with other clubs.

1. Subsidized Shuttles. How sad,
how unutterably, inexpressibly, excruciatingly sad to have enthusiastic
players, others clubs anxious to compete with you, but—no D. A. A, C.
and Council to help provide the wherewithal for practice games. Would you,
gentle or ferocious bird-killer, pay 35
cents for one bird, 75 cents for two
birds and $1.10 for three birds? No,
of course you would not. We extend
to Mount Allison badminton players
our heartfelt sympathies in that there
is apparently nobody—fairy godmother
or otherwise—to provide subsidized
shuttles for them to use on their splendid courts. The noble game of badminton can never become popular
amongst students if they have nothing
to play with.

2. Enthusiastic players. John
Carroll, most capable and hardworking
Chairman of the Students’ Gymnasium
Committee, tells me that there is less
interest in badminton this year—he
dispenses birds, shuttles, etc., to the
players. Well, anyway, the entry
for the college badminton championships this year was again a large one,
and it may be that some badminton

pelled to stimulate enthusiasm by presenting trophies for Men’s Doubles,
Women’s Doubles, Mixed Doubles—
Men’s and Women’s Singles being the
only events at present rewarded by
challenge cups. Furthermore, it would
be quite nice if somebody would present aunually some small tokens ‘for
keeps,’’ so that the Dalhousie badminton champion may pass it round “‘fortv
years on” and thereby convince an unbelieving audience.

3. Competition. This is how the
McCurdy Cup (Halifax City League)
Championships ended for 1936-37;
Militia B. C.—76 points; Halifax B. C,
—T4 points; Dalhousie—30 points.
This is not exactly close competition on
Dalhousie’s part. On the other hand,
Dalhousie defeated Mt. Allison at Sackville by 28 events to one. Every effort should now.be made to consummate
the Intercollegiate Badminton League.
in line with the Tennis League which
has done so much to encourage tennis
at Acadia and Mt. Allison and Dal
housie. By the bye, is there not a
possibility that the Maritime Intercollegiate Athletic Association — or

whatever its title may be—will help
in the formation of a badminton league
for the same four universities that now
compete for the tennis championship
of the Maritimes?

 

Special door prize--Waterman Pen
---Courtesy Roy Atwood.

 

 

 

 

 
