    
     

o> - s "
i — * «
: :
‘ je
/

* *

* *

 

* *

3 TL vr r sa ie r m ae x ps age _ a te a ? A an ie hy . aorT * am. a) io iad .
Abt \ eae te ee LL ai i ? z
i j ; 5 “ 3 . s yj 4 ‘ - : 7
i : ‘
af | ' Sue

*

 

 

Ss tudents’ Directories NowA vailable to Student Body

 

  
 

ALL STAR
BASKET- z
GAME
; )ALHOUSIE GAZETTE |.) |
7 | sarurRDAY SATURDAY 4
OD > NIGHT NIGHT
é America’s Oldest College Paper ;

 

 

——T

 

 

[ sane STONE OF NEW ARTS AND
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING LAID

 

 

ISS to Discuss

 

 

Notice

 

 

tie I, McG. Stewart Lays Corner Stone of New

 

 

 

 

 

Aid for Sterling |. Mie students ens in a Bed
7 msiooe woo sees ATS Building in Impressive Ceremony as
*S a eZ attend a casting rokenreni to- 7
Ns Country Students night, Friday, at 7.90 in the En-| 0
_| gineering Common Room ver Iwo I wundre tudents Witness Event
The International Students Ser- gi & ,
vice in Canada is gaining in pres-}| ———____ MNS ial Vi h
tige and student support. This was An impressive ceremony took place at Studley Campus
- the concensus ‘of opinion as voiced] ® on Tuesday noon when the cornerstone for the new Dalhousie
‘in the reports of 20 universities | Arts building was laid by Mr. J. MacGregor Stewart, a memfrom coast to coast at the annual ber of the board of Governors and a distinguished alumnus i
-ISS conference hel dthis year at | of this University. , , A
the University of Montreal. | Colonel K. C. Laurie, Chairman of the board of Gover- 4
Seventy delegates represented | nors directed the ceremony. ,
the 20 colleges at the three day ' —-—- - ra aiiger, Dr. A, E. Kerr, President of the
: salons: Many matters of vital | University, said, in his. dedication
es of the new building, “The faculty
importance were considered, prime , wns
a ee them the question of relief Student Forum to be of Arts is the heart of any univerta ‘ sity. Liberal Arts are guardians |
administered to students behind the gare Held in Gym Thursday wee Wie aces ee la f
» “Iron Curtain’ ’through the Com- pete Cts nt i ‘Whee dhbaflatpal! Pheeee L munist dominated oa bers of the Student Body will be ee pricier 7 Pahari
Jnion of Students. It was decide : . : aR *
oo “ee Beenie! Out lil dn Fatuns held in the Dalhousie Gymnasium | of Governors intend to keep the
; Te a eer of text book and in- on Thursday, November 24. ‘The| faculty of Arts in the centre of the
| Ber teuments to) all countries, would Council of Students has called this| University.” :
\. be sent to countries in the Soviet forum in accordance with the pro-| Mr. Stewart in the closing ad- ,
|. sphere without this need being visions of the Constitution, which | 27e8S of the ceremony said, “The
estimated by an on-the-spot field require such a meeting to be held eapalty of Arts is the home of the ‘
worker of the non-political World ee ms ean university and the oldest and most
Student Relief Organization. These in the first term. important faculty. It is here that |
field workers reported last year The Students’ Council prepares ic ce and moral talents
that they found it almost rh an agenda of questions to be dis- ‘ ee eee men! ‘and women
sible to work in these countries. 5 ¥ . : tomorrow will be tested. In their
‘4 Og vital importance to many stu- cussed, but any student may bring | hands is the fate of Dalhousie’s redents on this campus is the deci- up for discussion any matter con-| putation and tradition.”
sion to aid students from the ster- ~ |cerning student activities under} He also said that a group of
ling areas who were hit by devalu-| J. McGregor Stewart, (above) laid the cornerstone of the new Arts and| the jurisdiction of the Council. great Dalhousians had devoted
ation. In this regard inquiries are} Administration Building in an impressive ceremony Tuesday noon. es Bee it time and initiative to making their
being made by the local ISS com-| Many distinguished guests and a large number of students witnessed ae Council will bring up the} vision of a. new and larger Dal- |
mittee and immediate action is as-| the proceedings. ash a pede . i =e ei housie a reality, but war and de- |
sured, A full report of the con- SER LAAAT ea Sra eee AU. “CAS King Student | pression had deferred their plans.”
ference will be made on the front peal : oe eee te Suggest a) The Invocation was delivered by
page of Tuesday’s Gazette. NFCUS Finds Canadian Publishers constitutional amendment in con-| Rey, Principal C. M. Nicholson.
i eee ae aldahtheS Ee Hig oot Graduate |The cornerstone was prepared for
. Studies Society. e Year Book|laving 3; adit;
2 ying in the traditional form.
Students, Directories Sell Books at American List Price may also be discussed. Sealed in the cornerstone were
. : : s ; bas —______________ }| Several items pertaining to. the
4 MONTREAL— (CUP) — The Mac-) lower cost of English texts,’’ Love :
us : . | story sie
4 Available on Camp diilinn? Goyanaee BE Camada’-and | eaid. | ig ia of oe
The Dalhousie Students Direc-| the McGraw-Hill Book Company tae ree es uring the ceremony Mr. Stewtory for the year-1949-50 is now| have been selling American books, eee ee _ ae art was presented with a silver
available in Roy’s Book Store for! which they publish or distribute in arate ia, fact mit Mates ig : trowel to lay the cornerstone.
~ all students. The Book, which was} Canada at American list prices for poe ‘The new Arts buidling will in
edited by Dave Snow, has been on
much the same style as_ last

the past two months, Richey Love,
National President of the National

- year’s directory which was edited| Federation of Canadian University

by Bob Kaill.
Section One of the directory contains the Students Council Consti-|

 

Students said here today.

Love said that he had talked to
| Principal F. Cyril James and had

the use of English texts which are

being sold at a lower cost wherever

possible,” he said.

NFCUS is continuing its investigation of the cost of texts at Toronto, where the local committee is

crease the efficiency of the University as in the past there has
been a definite lack of space on the
Campus. This edifice is in the
shape of a ‘U’ and will face Morris Street.

 

tution. The next section lists and |
describes all the organizations on| Macmillan and McGraw-Hill signi
 

counts to university students and

 

   
 
  
  
   

Ve

the Campus. Songs and yells,
well known around Dal, occupy
Section Three. Finally the names,
addresses and phone numbers of
the faculty and students are listed.

Credit is due to Dave Snow and
his assistants, Valerie Cato, Joyce
Carney and Leslie Ann Hayes who
combined their efforts to make a
relative early publication possible.
The Directory is free to all stu
 

November 22 at 8 p.m., SHARP, at

a, are ee ee invited.

 

 

at . a
eee a bs

fied their intention of selling texts
in Canada at the American list
price in the hope that other publishers would follow this practice.
“As far as I know,” Love said,
“this policy has been in effect for
two months.”

NFCUS chairman Love presided
over a one-day meeting of the
NFCUS executive committee at the

“These English companies are

will be able to sell their books at

15 to 20 per cent cheaper in Can
ada, because of devaluation and


a

as

   

Py 4 ‘ : “i
a Sag MEMES F)

 

SSeS

been told that “two months ago investigating the question of dis|

  

the cost of second hand books.

 

Sherriff Hall to
Be Scene of Dance

“Now is the time for all good

men to come to the aid of the

12 and those interested may get

Taffy Parker, Joan Baxter, Barb
Lohnes, Carol Bethune and Gretchen Fraser.

 

 

ed the Homecoming play, “Wurzel

past has received many favorable
comments from students and audierfce alike.

Stag Party Held by
Commerce Society

A highly successful stag party
was held by the Commerce Society
in the Commissary Building, Mulgrave Park, Wednesday evening.

Bridge, ping-pong and other recreations were enjoyed by those in

| " ae University of Montreal yesterday.| party.” The party in this instance attendance and later on in the eveents, . : i ‘
ri | Wy He reported that several English being the annual open Open House H. Leslie Pigot, who has directed | Ning refreshments were served.
| : 3 publishing companies are in Can-| held at Sherriff Hall on Saturday many of the Glee Club’s produc-| The object of this party was to
.  CO-VETTE NOTICE ada at ee ae ent investigating ia the sponsorship of Delta) tions in the past, will direct this| acquaint the new Commerce stu_ Dalhousie Co-Vettes Society will the field for graduate and profes- | Gamma. year’s Shakespearian drama,/dents with older students of the
hold its regular meeting, Tuesday, | Sional books. There will be dancing from 9 to| “Othello”. He has already direct- Society and to create a sense of
\

unity within the faculty.

the Red Cross Depot, Cogswell. definitely coming into te Cana-| tickets from Isabel Russell, Holly| Flummery” by A, A. Milne. Mr.| This party was arranged by the
} Street below Gottingen. All mem-| dian market, and claim that they; Flemming, Marnie Stevenson, | Pigot’s excellent direction in the| Social committee of the Commerce

Society consisting of Ed Woods,
Social Chairman, Joe Blanchard,
and Lloyd McCallum.

 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
   
    
 
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
    
   
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
 

: ? i 1a me
, i pe yl Poe
ge aes fe ares SF
; ae a F] » in : YY a «
ON sia a ek ee aa ie
a
7 P i Pa a, 7 > |" bit _
ad B ba nee a = ‘Ti ae
lea — | Phe fi r ERY,
} & ; A ep ’
; pV. Bens f fa) ihe ie x roe tt a a
re e | awe Fy a * fi Bat
—— @ e oy . f
f i. \ ms UF ; =
i a , : Gi 4 J. 2

a
i
“f i ity
rea + =e

2

era ete va :
aa

po
7"
a

,

n

re.

a

ousie Gazette, Halifax, N. §

ee Sc. ah a, én aes sis ts: ale Managing Editor

Advertising Manager
Office Manager

SS Bie 6146 2 B06

Jim MacDonald

ad

al

a ha

a? f. ’,
: weer ‘ (
» Crs a +

at

Cae SE end
od

aaa a Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

Bets oe anon EMRE Sy ee SAR EH Cc Me bes
RE MMEMONEM 505 boy bless es dene bee dec nd eese
sa ay Re-Write

_-——-- Proof Readers

oe 4 8 2b e 0 4 676 Gh 4 O18 © 6 2-6 © 6 S'S) FTE

Vol. LXXXII

FACT

Two weeks ago a breach of Acadia University
discipline, of such magnitude that members of the
‘Halifax police foree were called in to apprehend
those responsible, occurred on the Dalhousie campus.
The police phoned Dr. Kerr, informing him that
the persons causing the disturbance were Acadia
students, and in police custody. Dr. Kerr, president
of the university, immediately phoned Dr. Kirkconnell of Acadia, telling him of the incident. ..He
asked Dr. Kirkconnell what action should be taken.
Acadia’s president replied that he would look after
the matter and suggested a joint cancellation of two
English rugby games, scheduled for the following
Saturday. Dr. Kerr replied that he could not take
part in such a cancellation. ;

At 9 o’elock the following morning Dr. Kirkconnell again held a phone conversation with Dr.
Kerr and said that, after consultation with Mr.
Kelly, physical director of Acadia, he had decided
that the games should be forfeited. Dr. Kerr refused to accept the forfeit before submitting the
matter to Dalhousie students. He did agree, that
‘Saturday’s games should be CANCELLED, (not for- feited), notwithstanding, he had decided himself on
the forfeit.
When news of the cancellation reached the ears
of the Dalhousie footballers concerned, they, headed
by their manager, Ernie Fredrickson, protested
heartily to Mr. Vitalone, our Physical Director. Mr.
Vitalone could only say that the matter had been
decided above his level, but recommended that the
team contact the league to determine a remedy. The
team did that, and the President of the League got
in touch with Mr. Kelly of Acadia, who replied that
the game had been forfeited with no possibility of
any change of attitude.
That removed from Dal all responsibility for the
senior game.
Dr. Kirkconnell then wrote Dr. Kerr, inquiring
into’ the possibility of playing the INTERMEDIATE
game either in neutral territory or at Dalhousie. Dr.
Kerr again turned the matter over to Mr. Vitalone.
Mr. Vitalone assembled the intermediate team, and
a vote was taken on the acceptance of the forfeiture.
This forfeiture was accepted of Dalhousie’s own
volition. Those are the facts of the case.
Now, to correct the misinterpretations which
have been placed upon these facts.
It has been said that “responsibility for the decision regarding the default of the October 29th
game lies, insofar as we (an Acadia sports writer)
have been informed, (directly with the Dalhousie
_ Senior Team. And this decision was reached after
Acadia and Navy had played a 0-0 tie game.” That is
an obvious falacy.
Although the Acadia writer did not specifically
mention the intermediate team, it may also be
pointed out that their decision to accept the forfeit
from Acadia, in no way influenced Acadia’s standing in that league, since Tech took all honours by
virtue of their uninterrupted winning streak.
As we write this, we have received a letter from
Dr. Watson Kirkconnell, addressed to the Editors
of the Gazette. It is reproduced in the third column
of this page, and we believe that it does, in all probability, express the general opinion of the Acadians.
Nevertheless, one more fact should be revealed.
Through no compulsion or request on the part of
either Dalhousie or Acadia University authorities,
__ the Students’ Council and the Dalhousie Gazette saw
____ fit not to publicize even a small portion of the story.
tt was felt that any such publicity would do neither
_ Acadia nor Dalhousie the slightest degree of good.
_ However, we have now been forced to bring to
meh BOE eat incident. The sole motiyBae Al ott ys rok Be i oh ‘ tailed cs

. ao —
“eg oe eo A
ad |” he wih Aa a we Ay 4
‘ i »

'
eer ee ES it

 

~~

* . ae TE’ : F
ss AMERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
---——s Member Canadian University Press
Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
at Tini

versity. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
ents’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,

$ ale be 5'o © 6 4 B64 Oe 6 Bird tee eee Ose oe wee ©

- Murray Higgins ....... TET fees. e's dons 8

Giclee A Oe ae © Be o 6)6) B48 © 4 e' © 2 ete 0 eh a fle 4 O89 ft

..Feature Editor

@ 6.9.6 6) © 6. 9 26. 0105. € 4 2 @ ave © e18 6 8 8 8 0°?

SNe eee ee Ceo eb sit ee Ce ste eas teaeas eaves o

Sit €e. 8 © O-suece| 8 6's '¢ 612 @ © ¢°Rus 8.8 ¢ ie 2 UO’ 6100 @ Ve

Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
.. Barbara MecGeogh, Eliphal Nichols

_ Reporters—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
pies ae Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,

;++.... Photgrapher
Beatrice MacDonald

a4 6 6.6 © U6 © 626 6 ate S6i9 6S £6 ole Reeve Ss ewBaee Se vseesteeaeeceonwpneoen

Gloria Horne, Rona Yess
Barb McGeogh, Pat Ahern

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1949

and FICTION —

: ‘a seed Pas)
iy | 7 4 J. Waa . a iat ar. bike
a 4 L : 8 os)

re AT ee ee nag A ’
ne :
, ews 7 * i ne ~ Ais ‘oe
& dy = *, a . i : re q ~

ty icy 7 ‘ : ® %

pa es 1 Ns iy? Sg lle pe oe be
- , 2

: ir + Oe soe i : Ti a

gis ea: . . é

Letter to the Editor
To the Editof November 15, 1949
Dalhousie Gazette

Permit me on behalf of Acadia
University to express regret to
‘your student body both for the behaviour of certain Acadia students
on your campus on’ October 26th
and for the insulting language perpetrated by a sports writer in the
Acadia Athenaeum of November
8th. Neither offence can be excused. I can assure you, however,
that neither is representative of
this University. I have heard
nothing but deep regret on this
campus, both for the original unpleasantness of the 26th and for
the appalling intemperance of language with which one fervent fan
reacted to the second annual loss
of a potential championship
through a technicality.

Acadia and Dalhousie both have
long and honourable traditions.
Athletic rivalry should not be incompatible with mutual good will.
I therefore hope that no reckless
act or utterance on the part of individuals in either institution will
result in general bitterness. The
purposes in national life for which
our two universities exist are far
too important for us to be estranged in such a fashion.

Yours sincerely,
WATSON KIRKCONNELL
President, Acadia University

C.U.P. Editor

News Editors

Sports Editors

Lucy Calp

The Haligonian horde exults in petty victory. Our
dull-minded Dullhousian Protesters sound out a yell
of triumph which soars to a high screech, like that
of a hungry vulture. Their little minds have conceived a meagre means of conquest—and now they
stand and wail outside the Citadel walls. Hearken to
their ery! It is the small spoils of a destitute mob
of the unenlightened.

Fresh to our memory is the pain of double knifewounds in the back administered by this same host
of degenerates in connection with the City League
Championships of the 1948 season. To the Very
Dullhousie Gazette comment “In the past Dal has
not been one to carry technicalities too far. Because
of that Dal in the past has been a big brother in
many instances on many past occasions, a victim on
even. more’—we say: look Brother, the knife has
been inserted twice, and now you’re caught twisting
it. Don’t try to wash the filth from your hands,
cause, Brother, “truth will out’.

We also remember yet visits we, too, have had
from non-representative groups of students wreaking small havoc about the campus. We fail, however,
to recall having accepted any damning forfeitures in
such cases. Though no one can deny that the recent
escapade of some of our group was out of order, how
that episode may be made a justification for the misplaced misanthropy shown in awarding the 1949 Senior City League Title is hardly understandable.

If I may cite a parallel—there is located in the |

southeast corner of the Loyalist Room of the main

building at Fort Anne, Annapolis, N. S., a figure |
representing Justice. The remarkable feature about |

this small statue is that from its hands have been
taken, through the ravages of Time, both the Sword
and the Scales. It might be well to suggest to the
curators of Fort Anne that this masterfully ironic

figure be sent to rest among our Dullhousian
demagogues.

It is evident that our Haligonian “big brothers” |

conceive of justice as a form of naked stupidity,
bordering on the obscene. It would seem shgmeful
to deny them such an approprite representative figure as the model at Fort Anne.

Concerning this matter
make pointedly evident the fact that responsibility
for the decision regarding the default of the October 29th game lies, in so far as we have been informed, directly with the Dullhousie Senior Team
(?) And this decision was reached after Acadia
and Navy had played a 0-0 tie game. The Halifax

aggregation often misleadingly referred to as a.

rugby team, slinked out via the default route by re
fusing to reschedule the game, instead of facing a

thorough pasting from Atadia Similar to the 26-0

lambasting handed out by the Axemen on October |

12 in Halifax.

On October 28th, Mr. Gabriel Vitalone stated that
the “honorbound” horde entered in the City League
was quite anxious for a rescheduling of the cancelled
contest. This opinion was expressed at a time when
a win or loss either way would not have decided the
League winner. But with the Navy game of last
Wednesday, the fraternal Haligonians were offered
a cheap opportunity for League Championship. On
last Thursday morning Coach Kelly was officially
informed that they had made the most of that opportunity—our “big brothers” twisted the khife, and
ducked a sure shellacking on the rugby field. To
themselves and all concerned they made it painfully
evident that dirty tactics was their alternative to
sportsmanlike justice. *

 

ation for this editorial was to present in its proper, JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mgr.
light the position of Dalhousie university, its stu-| CHARLES SMITH, Mer.

dents, and its teams.

*
~

ah) te ‘ 2 ft < Li ad, 4 .

of justice, we wish to}

:

as ae

:
a :
-! ae " Vig

a t

bed pr es DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

es

 

“Pardon me, Mr. Wes. Bang! May I ask to
what you ascribe your phenomenal success ?”’

*Sure! A lot of practice—and a little ‘Vaseline’
Hair Tonic every day to ‘check’ Dry Scalp and
: keep my hair in position.”

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

TRADE MARK

 

f'VASELINE’ [S THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESEBROUGH MFG. CG. CONS’D.

9 P.M.

_ LONIG HT.

f

“©

Se oi)

   

“Neither a borrower
wor a lender he”

Zany

That’s good advice Egbert—most times.
But Egbert knows, too, that there are
times when borrowing — and lending
— can be good business.

By operating his own savings account
at the B of M during the past four years,
Egbert has found out plenty about financial matters. He’s got to know his B of M
Manager pretty well, too. He’s talked

 

 

JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mgr. Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

 

over his future plans with him many
times and knows that his B of M
manager is a good friend —a wise
financial counsellor.

That’s why Egbert says, “A good bank
ing connection is a ‘must’ for success,”
U4-S

   
   
       

>

BANK oF MonrTREAL

TEL MeL TSM IA

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

JOHN A, HOBSON, Mer. Halifax Branch:

North End Branch:

 

i ‘el . “ wD i ear
OU Tk 4, DAS ty Sai Bee 1h ps
| ee ee “ag £ i Pr em - oh.    
   
   
   
   
       
  
  
   

Campus Roundup |
by Windy O'Neill

Despite the fact that Dalhousie was only able to amass one
win this football season, things are not as bad as they first appear.
_ Never once, this year, when the Gold and Black ran on to the grid— iror did their opponents lack a feeling of anticipation, for, al
hough, usually underdogs, the Tigers could have upset any contest.

& * % *

Ag _ ‘The boys put on a fine show against the powerful Wanderers in the
m a¢ and rain last Friday. One couldn’t have asked for more from a

warriors as Bob MacDonald, Donny Woodward, Pete Mingo, Red MacDonald, Johnny Lindsay, Bert Cull, Doc Hopman and several others,
not to mention injuries to Paul Lee and Bobby Wilson. On top of all
this the Tigers had a new coach, who, although he did a fine job, cer__ tainly needed a year to orientate himself to Dalhousie and to the
slightly different Canadian game.

Pian % * * *

_-—~—- Most of the team will be back again next year and if the
DAAC plays their cards right, the Tigers should be in there at the
pe finish—AND ON OUR OWN FIELD!

* * * *

The problem of school spirit at Dalhousie is about to be solved. In
; 4 the very near future, that gigantic, continual discussion group known

as the Dalhousie Law School is to move up to Studley with the other
humanities, where it belongs. Even in its isolated position in the over_ erowded Forrest Building, the law school has managed, every year to
send men to Studley campus to lead different societies and groups.
Of course, as lawyers this should be expected, but the vast majority
of the law students have tended to become detached from general Dal-. housie affairs and this is not a good thing for themselves or for the
University.

a

Py

* * * *

is - It’s about time that the other professional schools come out of
their lethargy, especially the Medical school. At certain periods
in the past, the medical men led all campus activities and were
standouts on the athletic scene. That day has gone and we wonnder why? The staff blame the students and the students blame the
staff. There is supposed to be an unwritten law that any med

—
-:
7”
4

"
“ certs ‘2h
,e-= ie er
oS
LS

a _ participating in extracurricular activities will not do so well.
_ * * a *
E * * 8 . .
ee If there is anything deliberate meant, it is a shameful thing. Personally, we don’t think there is any truth in it, whatsoever, as Dean

Grant has constantly exhorted the Meds to participate, and Professor
Bean of Histology is head of the Senate Athletic Committee and would
not miss a football game come blizzard or flood. Doc Hopman played
last year and did equally well on the gridiron as in the lab.

* % * a

 
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
    
  
     
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
   
   
    
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
     

It’s been a long time since the Meds have entered an interfac
football team and Meds participating on varsity teams could be
counted on the fingers of one hand, To say that they haven’t time
is no excuse as it has been amply demonstrated that they have.
It’s a matter of personal time management and a little effort. On

the day of the first Dalhousie football game the two medical fraternities played a game of softball. That’s not the spirit, fellows.
We think that when Dalhousie school spirit. forges ahead with the
Law School and the Arts School, the Dalhousie Medical School, of
which we are all justifiably proud, will not allow itself to remain
behind. ~

 

Arrow Araglow sports shirts
have the same expert styling

_ that goes into Arrow shirts —
the best, that is,

Fabrics are washable, fool> proof SANFORIZED labelled
Y _ —guaranteed never to shrink
out of fit.

Wear your Arrow Araglow
sports shirts with or without
ties .. . Either way, they’re
comfortable as can be, handsome as you’d wish.

See your Arrow dealer for

_ Arrow Araglow — sports shirts
_ for choosy. buyers. Cluett,
Peabody & Company of

 

Look for the Registered Trade Mark ARROW ay
ARROW SHIRTS
‘TIES « HANDKERCHIEFS

: : ; aie")
oer ee ae ihe a fe a

,

   

clay ve aed 7 7: 7 ee i ee ae et et al er
i ‘ . F ee aol

 

 
 

T- SQUARE

This column marks the reappearance of a feature that has
been in abeyance for some time,
namely a weekly glance at the activities of the engineers. These
staunch denizens of the “Shack”
are one of the best organized
groups on the campus, and yet
command less publicity than a
well-run Ladies’ Aid.

With a new resurgence of spirit,
the Engineering Society needs
more publicity, and this column
humbly hopes to fill the gap.

Looming on the horizon is one
very important item on the Society’s program—the big Fall
Dance to be held in the gym on
Friday, November 25. Les Single’s
band will provide the music, and a
quartet from the Glee Club will
add variety with a little vocalizing.
The hard-working committee of
Greg Lambros, Jim Mahon, Ross
Kenway, Harold Otto, Doug Glendinning, and Wally Hughes are
sparing no effort to make the
dance a success, so don’t forget,
folks, the 25th is your night to
howl!

The ruggah squad continués its
unbeaten, unscored-upon record
with a 9-0 win over Commerce.
Next slated opponents are Law and
Arts and Science. Meanwhile
players are being rounded up for
Inter-fac hockey.

Plans are already under way for
the Annual Ball and Banquet to be
held sometime in February, and
committees have been appointed.

 

 

More From Sylvester

Dear Ma,

Thank you kindly for the cheque
which I received yesterday. I repaid the bank manager, and now I
ean walk peacefully down Cobourg
Road once more.

I’m afraid that I cannot come
home next week-end, Ma—I had a
slight accident which might shock
you if you saw me. In Chemistry
Lab last Monday I was carefully
watching my instructress’s ankles
as she walked up the aisle, while
pouring some water (or so I
thought) into a flask. I don’t know
what it was that I poured, but
there was one helluva bang and
great clouds of green smoke. When
they finally woke me up I was
okay, except my face and hands,
which were a ghastly green hue.
The good doctor told me that it
will have faded to a_ pleasant
Chinese yellow by Xmas. When I
walked through the doorway at my
rooming house (Pier 21) the landlady dropped my electric shaver
and screamed in horror. She
dropped to her knees and promised
to repent; she would keep my room

above 32° F; that she would stop

opening my mail and change my
bedding for the first time. She
asked one little favour of me, that
I let her continue using my electric
razor. It’s wonderful what a little
green can do. There’s only one
trouble: my girl absoluteyl refuses
to kiss me goodnight. She says it
reminds her of kissing a cucumber.

A friend invited me down to the
office of the Dalhousie Gazette the
other morning while-he delivered a
notice. This office is a very interesting place. Always one ean
hear the peck, peck of a tripe
writer, and the constant din of
buzzing voices: there is much
elasping of foreheads over deadlines and stories not yet covered.
Meanwhile one loud voice rants

and raves in the _ background,
crashing in on _ the _ triper’s
thoughts. Somehow the Gazette

always makes its appearance, although one wonders how, after
spending five minutes within those
confines.

As you can see, Ma, I am gradually making the rounds of the
campus and learning of its many
activities. I hope to have more
news for you next letter. Meanwhile, please keep sending my allowance of $2.45 as regularly as in
the past. Give all my love to
Bossie and keep the barn warm.
I’ll be home to milk her for the
holidays.

Mama’s boy,
| SYLVESTER
P.S.—If you insist on sending me

ae Jell-o please send it packaged.

. .

a

ie

7 ~ ae

hist 3

Page Three

\T he Necessity of Getting Together

by M. FOISY
Gazette Staff Writer
With all the various societies scheduling parties for the :
near future, it is encouraging to see that the scholars of the
College on the Hill are making at least an attempt to know

their fellow man and much to joy, woman.

It is certainly

necessary that we all become disciples of that adage, ‘““Know

your fellow man and be consideréd learned.”

If you’re won
dering who wrote it, the author takes the credit or what ever

you wish to brand it.

The atmosphere of class is far @——

from friendly. Not that we blame
the professors, but as we are supposed to do, it is a period of deep
deliberation or sleep. The latter is
a much more comforting art, so
we are told.

Let us all make a real effort in
future to attend these parties.
These “‘do’s” continually bring us
together and over a bottle of bev
 

 

 

in about five or six years if we
don’t even know our classmates.

Last Wednesday for instance, the
Commerce boys held a stag party
and it was really a swell affair, in
that it brought out the friendliness in the fellows. The Engineers,
in spite of their draughtmanship
manner are hoping for their own
gathering this coming week and

erage or across a card table, our! Arts and Science have their weekly

friendship increases.

After all| dance dates at the smoke-filled

what will our homecoming be like} Common Room.

 

Adds Refreshment
To Every Occasion

=
a>

CGA

‘Coke’

Ask for it either way ... both
Srade-marks mean the same thing,

 

The Pause That Refreshes

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

194X

 

A Great Convenience
For Students...

EATON'S
Shopping |

Service

 

EATON’S Shopping Service is ready to help you with

your shopping! ..

. Call at the Store, phone, or write

in for expert help with your shopping ... When you
buy at EATON’S, remember the EATON Guarantee:

“‘Goods Satisfactory or
Money Refunded’’

 

 

“T. EATON.

HALIFAX

oO

LIMITED

CANADA

fis al Mea A) i lh fe Caged or ae At pe as Bees ‘iid td,

 
: - f<- _—o eT ou to a eS ras
~ ee dine ws Toa ey PAL eae ee
td anita Paes ey ee ee! eee ee ee Pi. A
ce ims. td ate * % ‘—_? a a

,

tk id
s, mn . ‘ x 7 : _ .

| Be we
i A . a
4 t ~, t
Pus : a
*

ad a 4
5 igs
¥ j
_
a am!
‘ ww)
i ey —* 5 7
: pl
Pa) P j
is rls talk
a é ors pe Soe. oS t :
rh a
7 A 7 r ;
, a ‘ q
A ; 9
< aN 7
' j i
: z J
S !
\ ;
. = * _
i) »
* ‘
: 4

a

4

i Pies r
Pe 5
rare

a

Saint

tds a
ae

“FOOTBALL TEAM

By JOE LEVISON

3y taking the bit in its teeth
ediate basketball squad has

the Dahousie Tigers varsity-cumgiven the rest of this Nembutal

campus something to think about. For those of us who don’t

» the campus, read the signs, listen to the loudspeaker system or

- ball squad will be the opposition. Last year the Saint John
- aggregation blasted their way through to the Dominion senior

oie 2) er

Semi-finals after winning the Maritime Senior Championship.

Along the way they acquired

the leading scorer in Canada,

A _ Moose Ludka who averaged 17 points a game.

| Wit Be. all intents this year’s Saint John club is as powerful if not more
so than last year’s team. While this will be the first game for the new
edition of the Saint Johners, in the light of their additional experience,

slig’ t edge in height and background they will be slight favourites to
ake the Duke from the Tigers. For Dal this will be a big game. It is

1e first effort of the year against

Grade “A” competition and from

this game the squad should be able to get a good gauge of their

abilities.

eh te _ Coming back to this “bit in teeth” business, the $150.00
: iF i} that we were talking about before was the guarantee that Saint
2 ‘s John requested to cover expenses

on the trip. Under the circum
stances (only three days of advertising available before the

game, and difficulty in getting the Council together to vote on
the allocation of funds for an advance to the team) little hope

ay tk.
é

was held that the Council would be able to provide the necessary

guarantee. The DAAC was also in the same spot.

eS

- ©

i : 4 . * - >
iY oa > Y wh
~ ti a! ce |
MTN pis BE
. wt! > fy
a re] orth ata
. i 6 Meare n

|

FED

This means that
the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
| ~ You can’t buy better
_ school pencils !

VENUS PENCIL CO., LTD., TORONTO

py
re

‘The concensus of opinion with
these organizations was that in the
light of past events staged here
which have had a week or more advertising and then been financial
flops the student funds could not
be risked on what was a three day
venture. For taking this attitude
the council of the students and the
DAAC certainly are not open to
chastisement from any corner.
Imagine what would be said if they
had advanced the money and then
the gate was a flop. “Squandering
students funds, ete.” .

However, this logic didn’t faze
Vitalone’s boys who immediately
went out and canvassed the students and faculty members for
donations of $10.00 each to cover
the guarantee. In short order this
was accomplished. Many of those
who pledged their funds will go
without their dinners for a week if
things go wrong.

The upshot is that the team has
enough confidence in itself and sufficient faith in the support of the
student body to go out on the limb
with this game. This year’s team
has therefore proved itself a
erackerjack not only in playing
ability, but in its attitude to the
students and basketball fans in the
city. The Tigers are assuming
that Dalhousie in particular and
basketball fans in general are interested in seeing better basketball
brought to Halifax.

From now on it’s up to every
Dalhousian to smooth things out
for the boys. Your support at the
gate and at the game will make a
success of this endeavour., And if
it is not a success you won’t be
able to blame the players if they
should take the attitude, “We’ve
got a good team but a _ rotten
bunch of supporters”, and therewith lose interest. So come Saturday night at 8:00 let’s see everyone out at Studley to back up the
boys. They deserve it.

FORSYTH’S
MEN’S SHOP

Headquarters
for

Fine Clothing - Sweaters
and Furnishings
Discount
Extended to all DAL Students
262 Gottingen St. « 4-1172

—

Andy MacKay will be in the Tigers
lineup Saturday night when they
meet the Saint John Atlantics.

Tigers To Meet
St. John Seniors

Saint John’s big senior cage
team, the Atlantics, will be in
town on Saturday night for an exhibition game with the Dal Varsity squad.

The port city club of N.B. packs
plenty of power with such domestic notables as Rip Seeley, one of
the leading scorers in the game in
the history of this country, and
outstanding star of last year’s
team, and seven imports from the
States.

Joe ‘Smokey’ Milos, a six foot
four centre will pivot the N.B.
hoopsters with Bernie Peters of
Holy Cross U. as playing-coach.

Other forwards include Red
Chaisson, a six foot three flash
and Adam Puchek, a set shot art
 

__ DALHOUSIE

ay


Fist Fight and Football Game Won
As Tigers Advance to Semi-Finals

Dalhousie Tigers blasted their
second round at Truro Wednesday

way to a 9-0 victory over Truro at the Hub Town.

way through to the McCurdy Cup
afternoon when they blitzed their
The Bengals, on

‘the strength of three tries scored in the first half, were able to stand
off some nice scrum work by Truro in tha second half as well as a burly
attack in which everything inculding some good right hands were

thrown at the Tigers. —
date still undetermined, the winner
drawn a bye to the finals,

—

GIRLS PLAY TIE
WITH EDGEHILL

The Edgehill girls put up a
strong battle, especially where they
were fighting against several of
their own alumnae, But, anyway
let’s hope that they didn’t all go
home with pneumonia!

The team that upheld the honour and glory of Dal on Saturday
was:—“Foo” Grant, Anne DeCarteret, Ruth Bulmner, Barb McGeoch, Carol Bethune, Franny
Donae, Connie Cyr, “Tommy”
Tompkins, Nancy Henderson, Jean
MacLeod, Gerry Grant, Jean Mit-|
chell, “Sis” Nichols, and Marj
Yeadon.

Lineup Posted for Girls
Entries in City Leagues

The lists of the teams that will
play in the City League have been
posted and the line-ups are as follows: “A” team, Marilyn MacIntyre, Betty Cousims, Barb
Lohnes, “Foo” Grant, Barb Quigley, Fran Doane, Gerry Grant,
Betty Petrie,“ Lucy Calp, Jean!
MacLeod, Mary Lou Sutherland, |
and Betty Merrick.

 

| Archibald and

The Cats now advance against Glace Bay at a

to meet Acadia Axemen who have

Gord McCoy scored the first try
just after the game started when
he carried the ball over from a 5
yard scrum. Morrison missed the
convert attempt. Delory scored try
number 2 after a three-quarter
line combination. McCoy missed
the goal kick. Five minutes before
the end of the half the Tigers
wrote finis to scoring for the day
when Doug McDonald carried the
bal to the goal line and one scrum
later Bill “Foo” Grant plunged
over. Again the convert placement
was wide.

Tempers which had been wild
from the start of the game exploded in the second half as Truro
fought hard to even things up.
Three minutes before the end of
the game Murray Joseph in. the
Truro scrum tangled with Willie
within Seconds
players and fans from both teams
were “Donnybrooking” things out.

| Fifteen minutes later when things
| were

smoothed out Joseph and
Archibald had been removed and
Bowes of Dal and Abraham. of
Truro had been substituted.

The game was marred by many
minor injuries caused by high
tackling. Throughout the clash the
Truro scrum gave the Tigers
plenty of trouble, outheeling the
Bengals 21-17.

——_____

ee ee
AZETTE |

Seniors & OEH Juniors Saturday —

TROUNCES TRURO 9-NIL
On the “B” team, Nita MacDon- |
ald, Maxine Titford, Marg Mac-|
Lean, Joan Baxter, Caroline Logan, |
Marita Hope, Joanne Evertt, Caro- |
line Weld, Pat Ahern, Gay Esdale |
and Joan McCurdy.

ist of renown. Out of the west
from Indiana State comes Joe
Rusenas to hold down one guard
slot. While Al Peters, also of
Holy Cross’ fame will hold down
the other. In reserve strength Ed
Sonta veteran guard fills the bill.

e Right Smoke
at the Right Price
for Young Men

CS

Everyone the teams must)
nil : come to practices.. The first game
This is the first meeting between | of the “A” league will be played on |
Dal tore ee ee notch | Tues, the 29, at 7 p.m., in our!
senior Canadian team. Last year ok aca AR, CORN ON A” Age He Ta |
the Saint Johners were Bomagn| Soh Ra Seer eee
|

senior semi-finalists and Maritime |
senior basketball champs.

on

For the roaring Bengal setting
squad Big Bucky Tanner will be
operating from the post flanked by
two seasoned veterans ‘Hotshot
Cholly” Connely and speedy Jimmy Mahon. Andy MacKay and
Scotty (Muray Weir) Henderson
will provide plenty of rebound control for the Varsity. “Coach” Vitalone also has at his disposal such
veterans as Scotty Morrison and
“Ace Mace” MacDonald to forward
a continuous power packed high
scoring attack. Bob Black, late of
Mount A., will also see action as
well as Dal’s own “Alcove Bug’”’—
that snappy ball handler and dribbling flash “Arpy” Robertson.

All Dalhousians Can
Eat Cheaply
AT

Evangeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.

Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m. - 12 Midnight

SSsssss

\

Ai AN
x ii

y
AZ,

Uy

2

Corsages

SS

 

” al c
ee tein eae

NUR/ERIEZS Limited -..

Te NOVA SCOTIAN

“DANCING
SATURDAY,
NIGHT”

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax.

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES
9% Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

Capitol Music Co.

Phone 3-6425
21 Blowers Street

Complete Line of
RADIOS, RECORDING APPLIANCES, MUSICAL _INSTRUMENTS, JEWELLERY

Easy Terms

.

 
