  
 

re

  

CE ST Tae
Oh Oe ee TICE ET Pe Oye a te. |e eee
ee! l ‘; Oe 4 Rs fy - '

I y * Tt

 

wv
r 4 ;
Mi ir a erick he, Hay s2 rd ; te
ry

ee ‘il

oy - ; ‘ \ 5 a
q

i 12 Ff ioesrs ; 1a mt \ a & at , 2f ?
{ ote + * oe he > ¥ ris ae 5 iv P » aay ‘Stas ie
7a OR ee 7 ‘ if ge! . taf : ‘ \ eo!
Var 4 fy 1

Mt Th AS INITIATION WEEK STARTS
LHOUSIE GAZETTE |

America’s Oldest College Paper

   
  
 
  

   

HALIFAX, N. S.. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949 * No. 1

. 1500 STUDENTS REGISTER;
ROLMENT CONTINUES TO CLIMB

parpere amr Sah SS ve a * *

Decline In iabebacii iat Than Average
Loss of Canadian Universities; Veterans
| Constitute 157% of Total Registration

© Registration at Dal this year has already exceeded the
Fifteen hundred mark. At least one hundred more students
are expected to enroll before the initiation period ends. No

 

 

 

In Sympathy

Dalhousie students deeply re-B/ accurate figures, therefore, can be released before the end of

gret the passing of Mrs. Mary f\ the week, and even then more students may register.
Kerr, mother of Dr. Kerr, Pres
year, 58 in second, 54 in third, 55

. " . hy » the . ca} < : i a >
ident of Dalhousie University. sie ae for the ve in fourth, 35 in fifth and eight
a ~ . TOV . QYra role ry y Ac- d r
A member of one of Cape Bre-§) SC500ls, Rites eG a pit AC-| specials.
« “ye 2 gt . oy ")?" - i
ton’s most prominent families, §| Curate. ere are 177 students in There are twelve students in

Law: 68 in First Year, 59 in Second Year, and 55 in Third Year.

Mrs. Kerr passed away at the
home of her daughter, Mrs.
John N. McAulay. Mrs. Kerr is
|# survived by three sons and two
)
{

each of the four years of Dentistry.
to make a total of forty-eight.

Two hundred and sixty-nine stu-| This makes a total of 494 students are enrolled in the Faculty| dents registered in the professional
| of Medicine this year. 59 in first | faculties.

; Forty-four students are enrolled
REGISTRATION—The staff of the Registrar’s Office were hard in the new faculty of Graduate

pressed to handle the sudden rush of work caused by Registration 2 | Studies.

Week. Above, Miss Beatrice Smith, Assistant Registrar, assists So far 1,081 students have en
Marney Stevenson, while Niome Lovatt and Ida MeKiggan watch. rolled in the faculties of Arts and

Science, Engineering, and Com
merce. =

This makes a grand total of
1,575 students registered at Dalhousie so far this year.

The final figures for registration this year will probably be
lower than those of last year, but
with even the incomplete figures
the comparative dec line is less
than that felt by other Canadian
universities.

daughters.

 

 

Faculty of ¢ Cratleate Studies Lreeted:

 

 

Dalhousie University has opened for the first time a
school of graduate studies leading to a degree of Master of
Arts and Master of Science. The course of study consists of
work given in advance of ordinary undergraduate classes and
‘will be confined to one subject or two closely related subjects.

Pe renege ee

oo ————-> Candidates for admission to this

faculty must hold a degree of B.A.)
Pidt: Club to Present or B.Sc. from a University of
recognized standing and have at
Opera at Dal Gym least honors or the equivalent of

Don Giovanni, one of Mozart’s honors standing as granted by|

Given by Public
most popular operas, put on by Dalhousie University in the subject

a a
iyi WR aE ie ese tc Affairs Institute
same cast during Bicentenary cele-| 1 Which the major work is to be INITIATION—College is “just pie” in the opinion of Sandy Cochrain

ra brations at Halifax. Director, done. Nes 3 , | and Marita Hope (Later chosen the Typical Freshette), Welcoming The Institute of Public Affairs
Ba Maris Vetra, head of opera de- PG ERTS? Of M.A, is erver IN! them to Dal are Gibb Reid and Billy Roscoe, of the Initiation Com-| is offering a series of courses in
partment at Halifax Conservatory | the follow ae departments: mittee.
of Music, at Gym, Oct. 4th and 5th. Classics, Economics, English LanStudent tickets 25¢ each no longer| SU#8¢ and Literature, Geology,

ie : é f and Economics. These courses
on sale (up to Oct. Ist) but tickets History, Physics, Mathematics, Frosh Observe | A\rts and Science Hold will be for M.A. and Honor stuavailable to students and general| Modern Languages, Public Ad- F: : | dents in Political Science and
public at box office, $1.00 up. maIstracion, Philosophy, and | rae Z W k ‘First Meeting of Year Economics. All others must have
Sponsored by Halifax Press Club,| Political Science. egal nitiation ee | the consent of the instructor.
who were good enough to allow Pepper for a 7 Sen HX) The Initiation Week program The seminar course in Interna| sale of tickets to students for 25¢ Biochemistry, Bio reas Chemistry, opened with a dance at the Dal- tional Law embraces the political,
—University arrangement. Geology, Mathematics, Physics, housie Gymnasium at which all the social and legal origins of Interhapless young Freshmen and formérly attractive Freshettes ap
 

Courses to be

 

es

it

A
hes

International Law and Contemporary problems in Political Science

 

 

 

The first meeting of the Arts
and Science Society will be held in
room three of the Arts Building at
twelve noon, Thursday, Oct. 6.

Marei o : 4,3 ;
and Physiology. national Law; recognition; nationAll members of the Arts and/|

Applications for admission must ality, territory jurisdiction, state
be made on a form obtainable from

 

 

; : Science Society are urged to attend eee + : .
Ross Hamilton Runs the Registrar prior to the time of peared with clothing rearranged this first meeting 1 nes resard Se eee
£ . § . ~ L 7 Ss re ‘O as : OEY an. > ‘ on dee : 5 ‘ i . 5 .
Ssptatintion p and their faces concealed behind a ise Ghia inate ce the Society international organization; treaties
, ° enerous coating of rouge, lipstick, | eA p rm ., , | and_other forms of international
Into Red Tape as 1US Several fellowships and scholar- . & BS, ME *| for the forthcoming year will be

etc, 1 agreement; aliens; neutrality; legal
formulated.

; ships are offered to students who ph
: But Freshettes soon found them- A .. ,, | regulations of the use of force;
Changes Site of Meet show aptitude in any department Riven eteiris. | By. ten ‘o'clock the Any students wishing to join the and related problems.

 

 

 

; of study. ; Society are also invited to attend. . i ‘ ,
3 Ross Hamilton, who was sent to : _,| dance was progressing like an or- ; The Contemporary problems in \
Pe) ae E At present there are 44 students | <: as de litical: wei d eae
iP the IUS conference in Paris to re- ¢ : < dinary dance with a’few minor dis- | —— ae ponticai science and economies 1s
PS registered in this Faculty. : a seminar course embraci
_ _ present Canada as an observer, has tractions such as Freshmen count- a seminar course embracing a con- '
- ‘run into a few difficulties. The ing the boards in the Gym wall or Att fi S h sideration of international,
French government apparently re- D V A NOTI CE painstakingly computing the num- enrion op $ national, provincial and municipal
1" . a °

fused entry visas to representa- ber of rafters in the ceiling. problems in political science and

The Initiation Committee asks

a tives from some universities within 1 All ex-service students ex-| ' The Frosh Received the welcome Sif; aunetclasumen to enforce the rg won pee ree
the iron curtain, and then the TUS} pecting benefits should have re-| news that regalia, excepting plac- eile tad vcdnlations voverning all sis on the development of public
_ changed the site of the conference| ported to D.V.A. officials at regis-| ards would not have to be worn Frosh within it seas Ae gees opinion t hr ough contemporary
ee Sophia. When last heard from} tration; those who have not done| during the week nor would their | ~~ "| periodical literature. The develop"* Ross was trying to get visas| so should report to Room 6, Men’s| faces have to be covered with red ment of an objective political and
2 through the thirteen or so coun-| Residence, and black coloring until Friday eee oo ee tr) economic interpretation of leading
a _ tries between England and Bul-| 2. Wings Club Scholarships:| night, the evening of the Freshie- journals of opinion. Assigned read
 
 
 
  
 
 

- garia. He is expected back late| Applications close October 10, see| Soph Dance, at which will take D.A.A.C, NOTICE ing and seminar reports will form
‘ieee He also said that} notice boards. place the trial of wayward Frosh.| ‘phere will be a meeting 6f the| P2t* of the course,

English co groups haddecided| 3. Professional Faculties: No-| After the trial the grand Unveil- RAL. Manacing “Comnuites at For further information, tele| 8 in IUS to do what they | tices concerning first payment will| ing will be held and the Freshmen| —‘7*****~* — i | phone C, F. Fraser, 3-7878,) ox all
oppose the communist in-| be posted when information is re-| will be able to throw away the| 7:00 P.M. on Wednesday, October | at the. institute Office, Cathedral
. ceived. placards they had to wear all week,’ 5 in Room 4 of the Arts Building.' Barracks.

 
Se . - Hazing Réterns

h Students? ‘Geet of,
are not
__ Por sub
‘irules known as the

Ss
“JOR EBVISON.

mint oti ncn
ea Photog ce

RICHTER BOB WOLMAN

sities about excesses sae other initiations

glo ‘Senate Committee has decided that hazing
‘be curtailed this year in one or two respects.

A? whether fraternal or campus, serves to elimi
ni ons prompted by the strangeness of the sur
's and the cosmopolitan nature of college life. It was

“a nnded for personal affront or a vent for spiteful

“Unfortunately, it has occasionally been used for

~The Senate of the university has seen fit to limit this
ear’s hazing to a level which it feels will still serve the
pose, yet maintain a decorum befitting an institution of
gher learning. ‘The ordinary hazing features of proper
res pect. to upperclassmn, and the installation of a fraternal
in: for fellow-initiates are not impaired. But the sense of

idicu, > has been eliminated.
- We do not support the stand taken last year by Acadia
wh ven all hazing was banned. We recognize hazing as an
institution of college life. Within its proper limits, it is of
imable value, and the university authorities are attempt
to anne those limits.

cts Sof bene inspired a a desire for eR may now
laced by more undesirable or even sadistic actions in

No one can control the relations of upperclassmen

and “frosh off the campus or in residences, but the need for
on tr O is. diminished when milder actions are permitted in

urs GET THE FACTS STRAIGHT

b 4 "1 fete
i .& ‘many extra-curricular activities.

aha _ By far the larger percentage of freshmen entering

college view their new surroundings as a glorified high-school,
place to make new and larger acquaintances, or a means of
COL tinuing the carefree times of earlier years.

, too few come with the idea of immediately entering
Some feel they will
ose their sense of self-importance, when they find themelves, doing some small job under the guidance or leadership

' someone more mature than themselves. Others take an

an: even more apathetic stand. Their lack of interest in campus

airs is matched only by their own narrow view of college

ae asa brain factory.

Pek Y

M Re en But student government and affairs can run without

, ey
a

A ™'
ee

# 4

+
!

activity

support no better than a class could run without students.
_ Granted, a college is an institution of learning, but no one
Ne ould | limit their field of knowledge to academic subjects

ve alone. Experience gained in the field of extra-curricular

and friendships made there can be as valuable as
_ many a college class.

_ _In-eampus affairs generally, as well as in studies, frosh
can expect to benefit only insofar as they give, and perhaps
Mie ten percent of the student body who have previously run

A oie, affairs will show an appreciable increase in future
ay _ years. A

CAW - CAW - COFFEE

EL The Bookstore has finally become the Bookstore, much
iN our regret. We view with alarm the dictates of Efficiency
-rogress which as forced upon us the recognition that a
book is a book and not a coffee saucer. Plato and platitudes
. 3 ill no longer be spooned out with sugar and cream by weary
ni juniors to weary sophomores. Muttering invectives the Right
Honourable Members of the Ancient and Venerable Order of
_ Afternoon Coffee at Roy’s now scurry about, furtively seek" ing caffeine grounds in local drug dispensaries.
With them we, too, grieve, but resign ourselves to the

hake’
PN Fates. Thank you, we'll have another cup.

that some of the material for the
book and certain amount of editing
was needed before it could be
printed. The Council heard recently from the editor that reasons
more or less beyond his control
were responsible for the delays; he
is completing the book now and
copies should be available within
the month,

The Council intends to supervise
the remaining steps to insure the
speediest possible publication of
‘| Pharos, and has constituted a Committee to inquire into the reasons

‘|for the delay at a later date.
Respectfully submitted,
Arthur Moreira

President
The Council or ert

To McGill Campus,
_|After Four Years

Much milder, much simpler than

earied years, freshman hazing is

back on the campus after a fouryear post-war lapse.

Governed by a six-point set of
“Freshman
Code of Etiquette,” hazing will see
freshmen, distinguished by buttons
and pieces of green ribbon, pay
their respects to upperclassmen by

\lighting their cigarettes, offering

them seats, and “in general being
respectful and courteous to them.”

Hazing is being re-instituted on
the campus “on an experimental
basis,” according to Boris Gerdavsky, assistant chairman of the
Freshman Reception Committee.
“The basis of the program is to
single out freshmen so that they
will not feel that they are being
neglected,” he said.

“In this way we will see to what
extent we can make freshmen feel
a part of the university,” he said,
noting that this is the first time
in ten years that hazing has had
the official backing of university
authorities.

“Upperclassmen are not permitted to ask a freshmen to do
anything outside the Code of Etiquette regulations,’ Gardavsky emphasized, “nor are they to enforce
the regulations in any way themselves.”

“Upperclassmen , will, however,
report the names of any freshmen
found violating code regulations to
the Freshman Reception Committee.

Code of Etiquette
follow:

1. Every freshman must write
his or her name on the “freshie”
button and wear it for the duration of freshman activities.

2. Freshmen must wear their
green ribbons on the campus, for

regulations

the men in place of their usual tie,

and for the girls in their hair or
around their necks.

light an
when

must
cigarette

3. Freshmen
upperclassmen’s
asked.

4, Freshmen must’ pay respect
to upperclassmen by: (a) Offering
seats to them anywhere on campus
grounds; (b) letting upperclassmen precede them in any queue,
except in regard to official appointments; (c) giving -way to
upperclassmen on stairways and
sidewalks; (d) in general, being
respectful and courteous. to all
upperclassmen,

5. Freshmen must know all the
McGill clubs and societies listed in
the handbook and their functions.

6. Freshmen must know the
McGill songs listed in the handbook.

Before the Council

The Council is considering ways
and means of contributing to a
rink, if the University decides to
build one. Should a rink be built
this year intercollegiate hockey
will become possible.

* ae Ss

The Publicity Committee is currently working on a new setup for
publicity which will include a service issuing releases. to newspapers and radio stations about
student affairs.

* * 6

The possibility of a concert at
Dal featuring Murray Adaskin,
well-known Canadian violinist, and
Frances James, equally well-known
soprano,

* * Bo

The probability of the students’
agreement ‘with King’s
coming up for revision this year.

Every third year the agreement is

subject to revision at the request
of either party and this As the
tee: reat if |

ve
_& hae
reer MEL al

Corsages

426 BARRINGTON ST, 
3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone
3-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

College

Great Newspapers

Rosedale Nurseries

iameves The Halifax
Chronicle-Herald
AND

The Halifax
Mail-Star

ALL THE NEWS
ALL THE TIME
Phone £&

3-7188 Circulation Over
100,000 Daily

Halifax

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

Come on Students
Ride In The Best

Announcing

EVANGELINE RESTAURANT

New Management Policy

Full course meal now served. Meal Tickets: $5.50 for $5.00.
Specializing in steaks, chops, salads and fountain service

Open Daily
8 a.m. to 12 Midnight
280 QUINPOOL ROAD

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

S. Cunard and Company, Lanied

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

DARTMOUTH, N. S.
79 Upper Water St.

HALIFAX, N. S.

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

Dal Off Hours.

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

Maritime Business College
73 College Street

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
seven courses are admitted as General Students.

The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursday
7.30 to 9.30.

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years

Enter any day. Tuition counts from date of Registration.

DALHOUSIE ‘UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES

Degrees of:

Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of Science

Diplomas in:

Hospital Pharmacy

Mining Geology

Music

Pharmacy

_ Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

Education
Engineering
Engineering Physics
Food Technology
PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry
The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

C.M.
THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.
The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Public
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 available to
students applying for admission from High Schools or Junior
Colleges of the Maritime Provinces, and awarded on the basis
of educational attainments.

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full information as to fees.
ROT Het residence facilities, and dates of registration,

Two of Canada’s |

Santana: ioe oy RG a

: re, i:

 
  
 
  

    

       
 

gy Windy O'Neill

 
 

ro

“3 _ column is “wiltten with striet understanding and provision

in, gly in favour ‘that they will be able to before they leave this
5 tion. With this gleaming ray of hope the Roundup welpall new Dalhousians—may they survive the Reign of Terror!
ety ey od es * we. *
PY i ‘The haa for the new arrivals is to accustom theme ves to the new, and in some respect, fearful surroundings.
e quickest route to this end is the making of new friend
a tips. ‘The making of friendships is the prime value of haz
 
    
    
   
    
      
     
    
  
 
 

  

   
    
 

   
   
      
   
   
    
    
  
  
   
  
   
 

4

bond of being persecuted by the sophomores. The hazing at
a “Dal: is not.
7 down just remember that the Sophs went through it last year

i lifelong associates.
he plish | “the more” is to indulge in the different phases of student
government and activity. There is a place for everyone.
not a football player you can be a manager.
: a smell of sweat and arnica, and the roar of the crowd, you can circulate
ave your immaculate person amongst the perfumes and grease paints of
_ the Glee Club.

g, in which all frosh find themselves in the peculiar fraternal
hard on anyone and is quite sensible, if it gets you

‘in fine style and if one spends the reasonable amount of time

at one’s books, one may get a chance to reciprocate to next

rye

* * * *

aa tn a student makes many new friends who will be
The more the btter. The usual way to accom
If you’re
If you don’t likegthe

* * ae %

For the garrulous, there is the Sodales debating society;

for the young fogies the Chess Club. For warriors (Russian

style) there is the Officer Training Corps of all three services
and last but certainly not least, there is the Dalhousie Gazette.
X* * x *

There is an official plea to all those who can write, think they

can write or would like to write, to present themselves to the editors
and be interviewed by the latter in their carefully padded cells. There
is also a crying need for poets, artists and cartoonists.
most influential men in the country proudly wear a Dalhousie gold
“DPD” in their T-shirts—to obtain a Dal gold “D”, one must work a

Some of the

bit for free.
. * * * *
And oh, yes—
He that bibbith round fie gym,
Committeth no small sin, \

(Not only that) You'll appear before Mr. Flynn,
- (And after a month) People’ll ask where you've bin.

ci Bd a #

By the time this document has reached your grimy little hands

- the Dal Tigers will have played their first football contest, and al| though they have relative disadvantage of only two weeks practise

there is great expectation that the Gold and Black will emerge victors.
Physical Director Gabriel “Vitamin” Vitalone, who is a discovery of
our University fathers, has been working like one possessed, rounding
the pigskin pushers into shape.

Our guess is that he will become an

 

_ |/Noted Physicist _
And Lecturer
Passes Away

 

George Hugh Henderson, O. E.
Smith Professor of Physics, Dalhousie University, and one of
Canada’s outstanding physicists,
died suddenly at the age of 56 on
his way to a New Brunswick fishing camp. :

He is survived by his wife, Ruth
Wallace Ross Henderson, and two
daughters, Nancy and Margaret,
the former a science student at
Dalhousie.

Professor Henderson received
his B.A, and B.Se. degrees from
Dalhousie University in 1914 with
high honors in Physics and the
Governor General’s Gold Medal,
after a scholastic record unsurpassed in the history of the University. Two years later he received his Master’s degree and was
awarded a 1851 Science Exhibition
Research Scholarship. Three years
later he proceeded to the Cavendish Laboratory and he obtained
his Ph.D. in 1922 from Cambridge
University. He then returned to
Canada as. a professor at the University of Saskatchewan. In 1925
he returned to his alma-mater as
Professor of Mathematical Physics.
He was. elected a Fellow of the

institution here. If the team has half the energy and determination of Royal Society of Canada in 1927.
: the Fordham and Springfield Grad, the Purdy Trophy will be resting
comfortably in the President’s office at the conclusion of the season.

What you get
when you buy

 
   
  
    
  
  
    

. ae
|
~~ * Le
ie
f
iS
j
B
fae!

a uh ie
.

sae

val

rs i

ar

    
  

ARROW
ENSEMBLES

You get — shirts, ties and
handkerchiefs designed as
a team.

SHIRTS — with the famous one-and-only Arrow
Collar (in a variety of styles) labelled Sanforized —
fabric shrinkage less than 1%!

TIES — that harmonize beautifully with the shirts.

-HANDKERCHIEFS — that add that never-failing
final touch,

See your Arrow dealer — for Arrow Ensembles.
Cluett, Peabody & Company of Canada Limited.

Look for the Registered Trade Mark ARROW

ARROW SHIRTS

TIES e -HANDKERCHIEIS

 

i

; 4 We iin | Beh at
> Ee “a ‘ ¢ . bh) My '

| an =

od Pat, ok e
i ya tae

ae he a ni ‘iit Sori s

In 1941 he was elected a Fellow of
the Royal Society of London, an
honour held by few Canadians.

Professor Henderson’s strong
sense of duty led him to serve his
country during the two world wars
—in the first as an Engineer Officer in the Army and in the second
he gave outstanding service to the
Royal Canadian Navy in his capacity as a Physicist and also in the
field of Operational Research. For
his outstanding contributions as
Superintendent of the Naval Research Establishment at Halifax
during the war he was awarded
the O.B.E. in 1943.

The first of his 25 scientific
papers was published while he
was still an undergraduate. It
was in the comparatively new
field of radioactivity, which continued through life to be his major
research interest.

Not only was Dr. Henderson a
great scientific investigator, but
he was also an able teacher, and
much revered by his students. He
also possessed excellent administrative ability, which he generously
gave to the many scientific organizations to which he belonged, such
as the National Research Council
of Canada, and the ,Nova Scotia
Research Foundation, and the Nova
Scotia Institute of Science, of
which he was a past president.

Professor Henderson’s place in
Canadian Physics cannot easily be
filled. His great intellectual ability, his unusual discrimination, and
his modesty won for him the respect and esteem.of all who knew
him. His untimely end is a sad
loss to Dalhousie University and to
Canada. On the day of the funeral
service at Halifax, not only were
the University flags at half-mast,
but also the ships and establishments in the Atlantic Command of
the Royal, Canadian Navy halfmasted their flags.

SLi Vitis weal I Sta Se oh se af

 

‘Dalhousie Students
Awarded Scholarships

‘© Dr. J. H. L. Johnstone, Dean of

baee Elected
NFCUS Prexy

At Conference

Richie Love, New Glasgow,
second year Law student at Dal

was elected National President of! scholarships will

NFCUS at its annual conference
this summer. This is the first
time that a representative of a
Maritime university has been
chosen for this post, though Dalhousie has done better in this respect than other Maritime colleges
with Al Lomas and Ross Hamilton elected Vice-Presidents in 1947
and 1948 respectively.

NFCUS (National Federation of
Canadian University Students) is
an organization’ with members in
nineteen Canadian Universities and
dedicated to the betterment of inter-university student relations and
to assist Canadian students by
offering them the opportunity to
speak with one united voice on
national affairs which directly
concern their welfare.

The conference drew up a brief
to be presented to the Royal Commission on Arts, Letters and
Science, which will meet in Halifax this winter. Federal aid to
needy students who would otherwise be unable to enter university
and Dominion grants directly to
the universities were the major
recommendations. of the conference. A plan was suggested similar to one now in effect in the U.S.,
whereby Canadian students could
attend colleges in European countries which owe large sums of
money to Canada, at the expense
of the Governments of these countries, as a means to aiding both international relations and assisting
countries concerned to lower their
deficits.

CASINO

Don’t Miss Maughan’s
“Quartet”

Mon, - Wed.

“The Great Dan
Patch”

  
   
        
 
     
           
   
   
       

  

- Tues.

Dennis Gail
O’KEEFE RUSSELL
Thurs, - Fri. - Sat.

     

SPECIAL MIDNIGHT SHOW
“YES SIR, THAT’S

MY BABY”
SUN., OCT. 9
Tickets Sold in Advance

Class Jewellery

Its not too early to plan the
class order of rings and pins.

Birks Contract Department
will be glad to assist with designs and special prices for
group orders.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.

Halifax, N. S.

GAUVIN &
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS
and
BLUE PRINTING

881, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

 

the Faculty of Graduate Studies
at Dalhousie has announced that
fourteen students in the Faculty
have been successful in winning
National Research Council scholar
'ships of a total value of $12,000 to
a|be held during the college session

1949-50. The holders of these
devote a considerable part of their time to research work while taking courses

in the Faculty of Graduate Studies

| leading to Master’s degrees in the 
departments of Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry and Physics.

In addition four students who
graduated from the Faculty of
Graduate Studies in May, 1949,
have won. scholarships totaling
$4,800 which will be held at Cambridge University, The Massachu
setts Institute of Technology,
3rown and Duke Universities,
where they will continue their

scientific studies by working towards the degree of Doctor of
Philosophy:

Arts and Science
Plans Activities
For Coming Term

Tentative plans for social events
to be conducted by the Arts and
Science Society in the forthcoming
year were announced last week by
Eric Richter, Activities manager
of the Society.

Starting Sat., Oct. 15, the Common Room dances in the Men’s
Residence will be resumed. This
year’s dance card will be varied
with such items as a Masquerade
Ball, Gay Nineties Night, Barn
Dance and Dogpatch Brawl. Because the music at these Saturday
night socials is recorded, the price
of admission will not exceed 50
cents per person. A further reduction will be offered to students
holding Arts and Science membership. ecards.

Within the Society itself,
Bridge, Chess, Debating and
Camera Clubs are under way. In
the line of sports, Arts and Science
expects to field football, basketball, hockey, and bowling teams.
Other activities will be organized
as the demand arises,

This year the Society will hold
dancing classes. Those who cannot dance and those who would
like to improve their technique are
invited to attend.

Join now, membership cards are
available from Betty Petrie and
Fred Laing, or
at the Saturday night dances and
at meetings of the Arts and
Science Society.

 

the

Welcome Students!

The management and staff of
FADER’S sincerely hope that
your scholastic ventures during
the coming year will be most
enjoyable and very successful.
We are always at your service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.
REXALL DRUGS

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

Phinneys Limited

456 Barrington St.

‘

Where you will find a
complete Music Service
and the finest
Sports Equipment

 

may be obtained .

 
 
    
  
     

 
  
    

 
 

Pm,

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

‘

COME HERE YOU—That’s the wish being voiced by Dal men Harv
Kolm, 31, and Murray Malloy, 25, as they try and get their hands on

one of those Andy McKay bullets.

Malloy, playing under the handi
cap of a cracked nose suffered in practice last week, came up with a
hope to have their passing attack
sharpened up for the coming week-end which will be the hardest of

good per formance. The Tigers

the season, with Wanderers
day in the Black Knight’s

on Saturday and Navy in Truro on Monlist of engagements.

(Photo By Wolman)

New Director Comes Here With
Fordham, Springfield Degrees

Dalhousie has a new physical director this year.

Hailing

from Yonkers, N.Y., Mr. Gabriel Vitalone has arrived here
well qualified to do battle with all those with whom Dalhou
sians war on field and floor.
A colorful gentleman,

“Coach’”’

as he is called by the

bodies of the football team has a lot of background. During

World War II he spent 3 of his

27

years as a rifle platoon

commander with the 89th Infantry Division.

MR. VITALONE

Academically Mr. Vitalone has a
B.S. degree in pre-law from Fordham University.
sical education course at Springfield University which is generally
recognized as the best phys. ed.
school on the continent. During
his two years there he earned his

his thesis on the “Second Wind”, a
phenomenon familiar to all athletes. This thesis was based on
material gained in the experimental laboratory.

Athletically, Mr. Vitalone’s activities in basketball, and football
give him plenty of experience in
what are now the two major
sports of this university. A veteran of several years amateur
basketball in the States, the coach
is looking forward expectantly to
the job of coaching the many
teams that will represent the university in the court game this
year. In football he played several
years in high school and amateur
circles. He is on the National
Board of Basketball officials.

His two major sports, however,
are baseball and track. The latter
sport will get a big shot in the
arm, because good track coaches in
the Maritimes are scarce as typewriters in this “Gazette” office.

Tigers Will Be Strong
Having now been out with the

He took his phy- |

masters degree (M.Ed.) and wrote |

©

 

 

| campuses,
f| classes of

| not

| porter

football team for three weeks the
coach is optimistic about the
chances of the “Black Knights”
this season. Realizing the disadvantages offered by the staggered classes of the professional
faculties with those of the Studley
and the late return to
some of the boys who
might be big guns in the Tiger
attack later in the season, he does
expect this year’s team to
reach full strength until well on in
the season.

Asked for a few words on his
athletic policy for the year Mr.
Vitalone, making allowance for

the fact that he has only been here
a short time and does not know the
overall picture as yet, told this rethat in general he would do
his best, to push sport in the university, and to educate the greater

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

DROPPED BY RCNAS 11-6

| SUPERIOR CONDITIONING TELLS
AS FLYERS WIN IN LAST CANTO

Dalhousie Squad Makes Good

Tennis Meet
13-14 of Oct.

Tennis fans will be glad to hear
that the Maritime Intercollegiate
tournaments re shaping up. Various dates, October 138th, October
14th, or possibly both, have been

set. This year, as before, there
will be no mixed doubles. "The
events slated are ladies’ singles
and doubles, men’s singles and
doubles. Manager Don Waller assures Dalhousians of a_ strong
team, so watch the next issue for

all further announcements.

Ruggerites Out

With Varsity

English rugby fans who have
been wondering where their playhave disappeared will find
them conditioning with the Canadian Rugby players. Bliss Leslie,
Jim Cruikshank, Don Kerr, Ken
Reardon and Foo Grant are back,
and with many other rugger en
ers

thusiasts now in the school should
lively season. Everyone interested
in the game should report at once
to P hysical Director Vitalone.

Ground Hockey
Practices Soon

Already ground hockey sticks

 

are chewing up the lawn and
gowned Artsmen creep along the
shelter of the walls of King’s. The
girls’ ground hockey team is once
more hard practice. The eternal problem of space to practice
has always been the limiting factor in organizing the team for, as

in other years, the interest in the
game is almost fanatical. Miss
Betty Evans, the new Physical

Directress, is working with many
of the old stars and newer enthusiasts to make a produce a fastmoving team. Any girls interested
are urged to come to the King’s

field from 1.00 to 1.30 any day of
the week,
number of students who do not

participate in sports not as players, but as spectators, a
student life which has

side of
been

neglected in past years

 

NOT A BIRD—BUT GOPHER PETERSON—That’s the 200 pounder
who is trying unsuccessfully to stop Gourley, 77, from getting away
one of the bullet passes which made up part of the effective RCNAS

aerial offensive in last Saturday’s

game.

Dalhoysian Harv Kolm, 31,

playing varsity in his freshman year, watches/the pigskin in flight

from the background, while Bob “Jesse” Coe w atches with the e

eye for infractions.

agile

(Photo By (bya unwirite)

make for a top-notch team and a

 

    

 

Impression
The Dal Tigers
season one which will long be

With Hard Fight

made their debut of the 1949 football

remembered by students and

alumni of the university, for while they went down 11-6 to

an aggressive team from H.M.C.S

Shearwater, the Bengals

put on adisplay of raw courage that came very close to

making up for their

deficiencies

in condition and depth.

Handicapped by only having eleven practises before the first
game, and experiencing little depth in key line positions, the

Dal squad nevertheless threw

water club which for the first

wall on every offensive thrust.

Starting out “Even Steven” and |
feeling strong the men in black |
held a defensive and offensive edge |
in the play of the opening half.
didn’t feel the heat till the fourth
Béhind a steam roller line that}
quarter the Dal defense was mas- |
terful. However, despite the ex-|
cellent line play, the Studley|

streaks couldn’t organize an effec- |

ient offensive. Poor ball handling |
and breaking too slowly the Cat
backfield couldn’t seem to take ad
vantage of the breaks of which

only a few were to present them
selves,
The poor
Shearwater

ball handling gave
their first big break of
the ball game in the first quarter
when Wilson fumbled the
ball going through on a delayed
ball. Fisher of the Shearwater
squad scooped up the leather and
ran to the 23 before being nailed
by Paul Lee who came up out of |
nowhere.
Injuries Weaken Team

Lee was hit in the solar plexus |
and forced to retire from the game,
the first of a long line of Dalhousie injuries that were to
weaken the team for the Shear-|
water drive in the last quarter.
Plays later Andy McKay picked up |
a buck fumble and was legging it|

sobby

in the clear down the left flat |
when he fumbled the ball as he|
was switching straightarms  to|

close off the major scoring efforts |
of the first period. Score 0-0.

The Bengals broke into the seor- |
ing column early ‘in the
quarter as Wilson booted a long
spiral which caught on the}
RCNAS 3. In an effort to shake |
off the tackler
alled the ball
another carrier
fore could get out and
points went down on the
board for the cats.

Taking off from their own 25
stripe Shearwater again failed to
gain ground and three minutes before the end of the quarter with
the ball on the Airmen’s 35, Mattison booted a field goal from a nice
angle to elevate the count 5-0 and |
end the scoring in the first half.
Unfortunately the efforts of Tom|
Stacey, Dal freshman end also|
ended in the first half when the|
blond bomber stopped a cleat in the
eye and was removed for medical
attention. Up till then Stacey had
been playing a masterful game.

second |

was

the receiver later- |
behind the line to|
who was nailed be
he two

seore
 

 

Compliments of

JOE and TOM

Diana Sweets |
Tea Room

}

The students recreation centre

OXFORD

Starting Thurs.

Esther
WILLIAMS

Gene
KELLY

 

“TAKE ME OUT TO

THE BALL GAME”
&

Second Attraction

“JUNGLE JIM”

| who gave away 10 and

|
| last,

 

a scare into a cocky Shearhalf of the game met a stone

In the third stanza the Flyers
began whittling closer to the Tiger
end zone. Scanlon, Gourley and
Thomas were the men who shoved
the ball into the Dal four yard
stripe at the halfway mark in the
quarter, but showing the fight that
was to stop the airmen four times
on the goal line in the final quarter the Cats smashed the attack
and moved down into Dartmouth
territory from where Wilson kicked another safety. The RCNAS
drove back hard, however, before
the end of the period and moved
in close enough for Hulla to mark
up his first field goal of the year.
Score at three quarter time—Dal
6; Shearwater 3.

The fourth quarter
been a bruising ball
the Tigers backed in
zone, weak in body
heart. Everyone of
Knights”

of what had
game found

their own
but strong in
the “Black
from line replacements,
20 pounds
to their opponents, down to the
Freshman water boy fought to the
but superior condition told as
with ten minutes to play Hulla
opened the crack in the armour to
boot a single out of touch. Two
minutes later the Airmen smashed
over from the four yard stripe
with Moose Mills toting the pigskin through left tackle for the
TD. Hulla again split the posts

to make the eount 11-6.

 

THE

GREEN LANTERN

“The sign of a good
meal”

407-409 Barrington St.

CANADA’S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

Meet Your Friends at
THE

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

 

 
