a
+

   

 

Vol. LXXXII

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

- America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1950

DALCO

DANCE

MARCH 13

 

 

No. 36

 

by

 
 

Honorary President

A meeting of the Senior Class
was held on Tuesday at noon in the
basement of the Arts Building, at
which life oficers for the class
were chosen.

~ MUNRO DAY PROGRAM RELEASED
BY CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEE

Bennet iasdaal as | as |Campus Queen to ie Gena and D’s

To be Awarded Tuesday Evening

The program for Munro Day has been released by Andy
MacKay, Chairman of the Committee. Munro Day will take
place on Tuesday, March 14, and will be the climax of extracurricular activities for the year.

The morning will be free, and activities will commence

»

 

 

Maritime Intercollegiate heavyweight champion Jim Cruikshanks,
who will defend his crown in the Intercollegiate meet held in Fredericton on Wednesday and Thursday of next week. Jim first won the title
in 1948 and defended it successfully in last year’s meet, held in the Dal
Gym. Unbeaten in all his amateur career, Jim is undoubtedly one of
the top amateur heavyweights in the Dominion.

 

Wednesday Last Day for Applications
For 1.S.$. 1950 Seminar Scholarships

According to an announcement from the Dalhousie ISS
committee no applicant for a 1950 Seminar Scholarship will
be considered if his application is received after Next Wednesday—March 15th. All applicants must have completed
their individual interviews with the members of the selection
committee by that date. All interviews are to be made on the

applicant’s own time.

The members of the committee are

Dean G. E. Wilson, Faculty of Arts and Science; Dr. H. L.
Scammell, Registrar ofthe University; Prof. M. O. Morgan,

Faculty Advisor to the ISS.

Plans have been completed for® i ey

this seminar on both the Inter-|

national and local levels. The details of the Discussion topics have
been received from the National
office and are as follows—the
central theme is the “Crisis in
Western Civilization” and it is
broken into five parts, each part
of one week’s duration, They are
as follows; The philosophic background of the present crisis, the
place of religious institutions in
the crisis, the geo-political and
historical evolution of Europe,
Economic and political factors in
the present crisis, the future political orientation of Europe.

On the local level the combined
efforts of the ISS committees of
Dalhousie, Saint Francis Xavier
and Acadia Universities have been
successful in obtaining an allocation of $2000.00 to cover the
transportation costs of the delegates. The travel funds are maintained on a pool basis as in the
past and the student ship will be
leaving Quebec City on June 26th
returning September 6th. Since
the Seminar is of five weeks dur
Facilities Extended to
Students Visiting U.K.

Students planning to visit the
United Kingdom next summer will
be extended the existing facilities
of the Commonwealth Relations
Office in London.

This agreement has been made
as a result of discussion between
the British Council and the United
Kingdom Department.

The facilities include meeting on
arrival, assistance over rationing
and transit accommodation, assistance in obtaining suitable accommodation, arrangement of discussions, study groups, week-end trips,
co-operation, organizations interested in arranging private hospitality and meetings or social contacts.

Interested students should contact the British Council, 3 Hanover St., W.1, London, Eng.

ations students selected will have a
grand opportunity to travel on the
continent before their return.

\

Professor C. L. Bennet was

elected Honorary President of the
class, with the following officers:

|
President: Lew Miller

Vice-President: Fran Doane
Secretary: Renee Fisher
Treasurer: Lloyd MacCallum
Historian: Bill Peterson
Convocation Committee:

Jan Robertson

Fred Laphen

Bob MacDougall

Bob Wilson

Newcombe Bloomer

Edith Hills

Al Collins

Roy Campbell
The Class valedictorian will be

elected at a later date.

Week-End Drama
Festival Success

The first Inter-University Drama
Festival came to a very successful
close with the final presentation of
one-act plays by Acadia, Dalhousie, and Mount Allison Players on
the time-honored stage of the
Charles Fawcett Memorial Hall in
Sackville, N.B., on Monday, March
6th.

Playing to small, but extremely enthusiastic, audiences at all
three Universities the seeds of
inter-university drama co-operation
were sown and nurtured into flowering blossom. The main theme
throughout was ‘co-operative, instead of competitive, dramatic endeavor’, and in the words of John
S. Pauley, President of the
D.G.D.S., “The Festival opened up
new avenues of fraternalism, giving those who participated a keener insight into what might be acuniversity co-operation, both on the
complished in the field of interstudent and faculty levels, with
particular emphasis on the for
3?

mer’.

Out of the Festival there developed a formally organized body
to be known as the Inter-University Drama Festival, and the heads
and directors of the three participating drama groups drew up a
constitution of which the following
are some of the highlights:

1. The aim is the furtherance of
co-operative university drama by
participating member universities.

2. Plays are to one-act, with a
minimum cast, played with a background of drapes and minimum
properties,

3. The presidents of the dramatic groups of the member universities shall form the executive of
the Festival, and each president
shall act as Festival Manager on
an annual rotation system. 
4, The Festival shall be held the
first week-end of November of
each year.

The preliminary draft of the
constitution is being prepared by
the Mount Allison Players and
eopies will be sent to each of the
three founding bodies for consideration and finalization this year.

at 1:30 with the Inter-fac basketball finals between Arts

Science and E ingineers

 

jr cman

Arts and Science
Hold Meeting

A brief meeting of the Arts and
Science Society was held yesterday
in the basement of the Arts Building for the purpose of nominating
a candidate for Sophmore representative on next year’s Council.

Previously Red Findlay and
Robin McNeil were the nominees
but the Council has declared that
Red Findlay being a King’s Student is ineligible although he will
be at Dal next year. John Roberts
received the nomination vacated by
Findlay. MeNeil’s nomination
stands.

Noel Goodridge then requested
more funds for the recent campaign which had cost more than
the society had allotted. No vote
could be passed as this was not a
regular meeting of the society.

Student Apathy
Buried at U.of A.

EDMONTON — (CUP) — Amid
the loud fails of student supporters, “campus apathy” was buried
in the dejected surroundings of the
University of Alberta last week.
The feeling of the moment was
illustrated by the funeral garbed
supporters of the extinct university spirit at Alberta, who, led by
the SAC President, bewailed the
fact that apathy at the University
long dead, was being buried by the
faculty.

The service took the form of a
funeral led by a ribbed “father of
the Alberta faith’. Three coffins,
bearing the spirit of football, the
spirit of the Mock Parliament
which was banned two years ago,
and the recently banned Gateway,
were borne from the Arts Building
of the Campus on a black draped
truck.

D.V.A. Students

D.V.A. wishes to be informed by
ALL PROSPECTIVE GRADUATES if they intend to continue
their studies after graduation, for
what reason, and in what field of
study, e.g., education, graduate
faculty, professional courses, etc. .

Information may best be given
by letter addressed to:

District Supervisor of Training,

Rehabilitation Branch,

Department of Veterans’ Affairs,

Camp Hill Hospital,

Halifax, N. S.

DANCE
The Daleo will have a dance at
Mulgrave Park on Monday, March
18. The music will be by Fred
Covey’s Orchestra, and dancing
will be from nine to one.

and

At half time, the Boys’ Varsity
Hockey team will play the Girls’
Varsity Hockey taam in a hoop
match. The Boys have challenged
the girls to the game.

At 3 p.m., the quartette contest
will start, with four entries to date.

The Campus Queen contest will
begin at 3.45 and the girls will be
introduced by their sponsors.

At 4.40 the Student Rink Committee will provide entertainment.
There will be dancing in the Common Room of the Men’s Residence
from 5 to 7 p.m.

The evening will begin at seven
with a speaker from the Alumni
followed by the introduction of
next year’s council of students. The
presentation of awards will take
place at 7.15.

Holly Flemming and Gerry Barrett are in charge of the Munro
Day Show, which will take place at
8.15, followed by the Crowning of
the Campus Queen.

The evening wil conclude with
dancing from 9.30 to 1 to the
music of Les Single’s Orchestra.

Collection of British §

Books Now in Library

From March 18 to March 25 the
display of British books sent to
Canadian university and college
libraries will be on exhibit in the
reading room of he University
Library. The books wil be shown
in two sections, one covering The
Humanities, the other Medical,
Pure and Applied Science. These
books, which later are to be gifts
to the libraries displaying them,
should be of particular interest to
students and faculty. Everyone is
cordially invited to examine them.

Television Game

Shown by U.B.C.

VANCOUVER—(CUP) — Television rugby games made their
first appearance in the University
of British Columbia Campus here
recently.

The UBC Radio Society presented a television broadcast of a University of Washington-Notre Dame
game to the students.

Over 150 students watched
Washington kick off to Notre
Dame from the comfortable lounge
seats in Brock Hall, the students
union. The Radio Society charges
the students a fee of $1.50 for
watching the performance, and
netted about $10 after the rental
for the set had been paid.

As a result of the large turnout,
the Society intends to repeat the
venture, if anything of interest on
the campus comes up.

 

NOTICE
There will be a meeting of the
Freshman class in the Chem Theatre on Tuesday, March 14, at
noon. 
 
 

 

 

AMERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
Phone 3-7098

Member Canadian University Press
Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
pee Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the

Students’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
‘ Dalhousie Gazette, Halifax, N. S.

a Editor-in-Chief Bre eet Me Se Bruce Lockwood

Fm BRI GOR 665 4.55 wb) o see weleaecine sear keke Maurice Foisy
RIN MIEN re ea gir a sec ewok wie Kose edie e duce Alfred Harris
MMMM Rf ee LS os elds ehiwele’s we we Murray Higgins

EDITORIAL STAFF
Charles MacIntosh
te To GS a score wea ee as Sigel cate
Features Editors .......... baa eae tog ah te { i i lg
Sports Editors | Don Kerr
eee eee a:0 Be) ela a 2 60-0 6 Bie) 3.0.0 ¢' 86 @ bs © Pat Ahern
Cur ator «22... ess. Suen wie, Sikes o-shs tre bait aK wd oes owls Jim MacDonald
RENN LT Mere Sire AG ic auld bio ae vv aves 0 on.e Ralph Medjuck
NEMEC ger Uae s clekee bodice. Barbara McGeoch
MODGPLETS: 0.5 es. Bob McInnes, Noel Goodridge, Betty Livingstone
oyra Seegar

PROCORPADNE! hi. ov acces cesiess US ard ees a ie (iy Dan Soberman
ye eee ee ee Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
ee a Ute aM epi bceké kale wa owes sie Lucy Calp
RTE REMAIN as nae s a Shee gw isiwle'ade'cce.e Gloria Horne, Rona Yess
Vol, LXXXII FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1950 No. 36

 

MUNRO DAY

Munro Day is celebrated in honour of one of Dalhousie’s
greatest benefactors. It should be celebrated firstly with a
feeling of gratitude for those advantages which we enjoy,
and secondly with the gaiety which is only natural on the last
holiday before final examinations.

Too often the day has been observed with little of a
memorial nature. True, ceremonies have been performed and
customs followed, but the extremes of celebration reached
have overshadowed the more serious rites of the day.

We ask only that celebration be kept within reasonable
limits, to ensure the maximum enjoyment for all members of
the university, both student and faculty. We ask, too, that
students attend all functions, not attending only those in
which they themselves or a friend are taking part.

BIGOTRY

Last Monday night the Council of Students wiped the
Arts and Science candidates from the slate to be voted on the
next day. They did so because “Red” Findlay, at present a
student at King’s, was one of the two men seeking to represent the Arts and Science Faculty.

We should bow our heads in apology each time we pass
King’s College ... if not for ourselves, at least for our Council. For every time we have accused King’s of bigotry, we
are doubly damned, since we have committed the sin ourselves.

Here we have a man whom we have sought as a member
of our football and basketball squads. When King’s objected
that as a King’s student he should play for King’s, we rose in
righteous wrath, claiming him as one of our own. Indignantly, we pointed to the Dal-King’s agreement, and said “He can
play for us if he so chooses”.

No so, however, when one of our organizations wishes to
be represented on the Council by him. Then we turn to our
constitution and say, ‘He is not a member of the student
body’”’.

But if we examine our constitution more closely, we will
see that not a section in it states that a candidate for the
Council of Students must be a member of the student body.
The relevant sections say only that he must be a member of
the Faculty which desires that he be its repersentative. Mr.
Findlay is a member of the Arts and Science Faculty.

We have also ignored the fact that the man in question
will next year be a member of our student body. The relevant
section of our Constitution entitled “Elections” (Article 6,
Sec. 9) says: “Candidates for election as Council of Students’
representatives must be such as will be registered in that Department or Faculty during the year in which they are to represent said department or faculty on the Council of Students”. Nothing is said even about present membership.

In respect to any duty owed by Dalhousie to King’s under the agreement, we should realize that no injustice is
being done King’s. King’s will have no claim on Mr. Findlay’s talents when he becomes a member of our student body
next year.

So it is not because of any constitutional edicts, nor yet
because we owe any duty to King’s, but because of a bigotry
which no longer entitles Dalhousians to see themselves as tin
gods, which prohibits the Arts and Science Faculty from
seeking the representation they wish on the Council of
Students.

 
  

ee tn ee ee

 

ergs See eer

   
 

  

Letters
To the Editor

25 Stairs place,
Halifax, N. S.,

 

March 6, 1950.
Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax, N. S.
Attention Editor.
In your edition of the “Daily

Monopoly” of Feb. 28/50, we notice
that page four carries a column by
Al Bickersome in which the writer

of the article deemed fit to criti-|

cize the Hydrostone Horseshoe
Club inasmuch as their club news
appears on the sport page of the
local daily paper.

Just to keep this matter
straightened out in the minds of
your student body, we would like
you to know that this argument
has already been thrashed out as
to whether cribbage should be
listed as a sport or hobby, and, as
far as the members of this club are
concerned, it rates a heading under
sports.

For the past four seasons, these
winter cribbage tournaments have
been patronized by the members of
the club, as well as creating great
interest to all followers of the
game throughout the province.
This, we can readily understand,
would not be of interest to young
men who are forging their way
through college, but you must remember that once the university
days are over, there are other
things that come into the picture
besides actual physical sports,
cribbage being one of these where
the brain is used more so than
brawn.

To take part in one of these tournaments, one must be able to take
it as well as dish it out, to smile
when the going gets tough, and to
keep trying even though chances of
winning are almost nil. That constitutes a real sport and our membership is full of men of this
calibre.

Seriously though, as soon as our
new clubhouse is completed, we
would be very pleased to take on a
representative of your student body
for a short series so that we could
give you first hand knowledge of a
real sport.

Yours very faithfully,
HORSESHOE CLUB
HYDROSTONE
Foster R. MacLeod,
President

 

Young Men and Women
A Foreign Job for You

No matter what your present occupation,
there are permanent openings for Canadian
citizens in South America, Africa, Asia,
Europe, Far East, etc. High wages, low living costs, improved social position, transportation, housing, medical care. Send $1.00
for Copyrighted Survey telling where, how
to apply, with list of over 350 select firms.
Aviation, oil, construction, export- import,
etc.

INDUSTRIAL TRADE SURVEYS

95 Davisville Ave., Toronto, 12,
Ontario

 

Te NOVA ab
oT gia ar eee

“DANCING
SATURDAY

 

  

NURSERIES Limited...

426 ees ST. - Halifax

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

THE

GREEN LANTERN

“The sign of a good
meal”

407-409 Barrington St.

 

 

 
 
 
 

Halifax Branch:

North End Branch:
Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

‘Sensational! Mr. Likkitysplit! Will you say
a word to your legion of admirers about your
impressive victory ?”’

“‘Sure—to keep ahead of the other guy use
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic regularly. It beats Dry
Scalp and keeps the hair in first place.”’

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

 

TRADE MARK

‘VASELINE’ IS THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESESROUGH MFG. co, CONS'D,

 

UYU Ti We

“Ty Reker

5(V ay CS

 

S aye “Why Stop? We've got
| plenty of gas left”

l

Egbert may be slow to take a hint, but
he hits on all six where money management is concerned, He’s not the guy to
run short of anything either — not even
gas On a quiet country lane. His financial
reserve at “MY BANK” takes care of
that.

 

Thousands of students from coast to’
coast ate following Egbert’s example.
They’re finding how easy it is to lay aside
some of that cash from spare time jobs
in a savings account at the B of M.
They’re finding, too, that a “fatality
fund” is a big help when an emergency
arises — like that damaged fender or an
unexpected trip with the team.

 
   
   

BANK OF MONTREAL

(ZOO ae er

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

JOHN A, HOBSON, Mer.
JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mer.
CHARLES SMITH, Mgr.
JAMES L. MeGERRIGLE, Mgr,

 
  
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NE

 

 

 

 

 

LD *

 

   

 

\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

   
  
    
   
     
   
 

J

 
 

i

  
     

7

¥

  
 

:
A

#

  

hy
uve

 
   

0p
qt!

  

re
et b>

aie
t<

  

Dalhousie Classical Hour on D-Day

 

Aa As Others See It

From McGill Daily

Three monkeys sat in a coconut) To leave her babies with others to

Discussing things as they’re said

to be.

: Said one to the other:—“Now listen

you two;

That man descends from our noble
race,”

‘ The very idea! It’s a desire

disgrace!

yt

x No monkey ever deserted his wife,

_ Starved her baby, and ruined her
ui 1 .

life. |
So you’ve never known a mother
monk

 

 

 

 

,
am | =

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

?

3 “Gene .

nae
a

i

eee ee
Screw. knw

en
eras
7 “ +

Ve

  
  
     
     

 

nie I
Tmt +

bunk,

And another thing you’ll never see

A monk build a fence around a
coconut tree

And let the coconuts go to waste,

Forbidding all other monks a taste.

Here’s another thing a monk won’t
do:

Go out at night and get on a stew;

Or raise a club, or gun, or knife;

To take some other monkey’s life.

Yes, man descended—the ornery
cus,

But brother, he didn’t descend from
us!

 

_|“When the hurly-burly’s done”

Act. 1, Macbeth

 

“And the battle’s lost and won” a fellow
needs his sleep, restful sleep that is!

And that means comfortable pajamas

like Arrow Pajamas.

They’ve no seams

in the seat (so no chafing) and they’re
roomily cut to prevent binding.

Roomy, yet they’re trim-fitting and
SANFORIZED labelled to keep them
trim regardless of washings.

ARROW PAJAMAS

 

Cluett, Peabody & Co. of Canada, Limited

 

_ The Eastern Trust Company
_ RELIABILITY .. . INTEGRITY . . . PROTECTION

ek For over 50 years expert administrators of
pata Funds, Securities and Estates

Recently we asked a learned
zoologist friend to take notebook
in hand and make a survey of the
various species of animal life on
‘view around the campus. From his
rather voluminous notes we selected the following choice items:

The Alcove Bug, a nocturnal animal, invariably found in pairs.
Frequents mainly Shirreff Hall but
can earry on operations practically
anywhere. Fond of dark corners
and resents being disturbed.

The Card Shark, usually congregates in the Common Room where
it remains many hours each day.
Forms groups of four at the slightest provocation. Often surrounded
by a species of parasite known as
“kibitzers’”. Used to be found in
the Engineering Common Room be
|fore its activities were restricted.

Numbers usually diminish around
December and early April.

The Tiger, numerous varieties,
depending on the season. Usually
engaged in strenuous contests. One
variety exercises daily on a wooden
floor and is very lean and agile,
often leaping high into the air with
outstretching paws. Hunts in
packs of five under a small but
very cunning leader known as
“Coach”. This species is practically unbeatable in combat.

Another variety of Tiger is often
seen at this time of year, and
fights mainly on ice. Forages far
and wide in search of game(s),
even penetrating as far as Newfoundland. Chases a small round
object over the ice for long periods
(three to be exact). This species is
very belligerent, and spends much
time in confinement during its contests.

The Wolf found everywhere at
Dal. where co-eds are to be found.
When in the presence of the female
of the species it develops a onetrack mind and emits its mating
call, a low undulating whistle.
(For further information on the
subject see the work of that eminent authority on wild life, Dr.
Kinsey).

W.M.A.

T-SQUARE

At press time, the names of the
two Engineering representatives on
the Student’s Council, were not
available, presumably on account
of the tie resulting between two of
the four candidates. The Engineers voted almost two to one in
favor of Zwicker for president
over the enterprising O’Hara.

Having reached the finals in the
basketball playoffs, the Boilermakers have two teams to beat
before latching on to that championship. With Law disposed of,
the team will be preparing for a
sudden-death game, or a two-game
total point series with the power
 

 

ful Arts and Science squad.

The hockey squad remains consistent anyway; fighting for a
place in the play-offs with Pine
Hill, they went down at the low
end of a 7-4 score. Considering the
small amount of practise time
available, the pucksters have done
reasonably well under the circumstances, and the prospects for next
year are fair.

With the Engineering issue (or
part issue) of the Gazette not too
many weeks away all contributors
are asked to get their material in
to Bill Adamson as soon as possible. This is our chance to make
this issue the best yet, and contributions from any Engineer are
more than welcome, the only requirements being that the copy
should be readable and not too
long.

 

NOTICE

Miss Cathie Nicoll, a well known
Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship
secretary, will be on the Dalhousie
Campus the week of March 6-13.
Those who made her acquaintance
last fall will be happy to have the
opportunity of seeing her and
talking to her again. She will be
speaking to students at the regular meeting of the I.V.C.F. on

 

THE WAYFARER

A sudden turn of events last
Sunday night made what promised
to be a dull and perhaps meaningless campaign into a colourful,
interesting and even more meaningless one. Greeting the few students who decided to turn out for
Monday morning classes were hundreds of signs which seemed to indicate that there is a guy called
O’Hara on the Campus. The colour
and the humour of these signs got
more votes for O’Hara than any
sombre black and white posters
could ever do.

Such expressions as ‘O’Hara can
give you a lift’ and ‘O’Hara has
dandruff’ had a great effect on the
Campi. Appealing rather to the
sense of humour than the sense of
logic (what election posters do?)
these signs which represent many
hour of hard work turned O’Hara
from a comparative unknown intoa
personality worth 416 votes,

Psychologically speaking,
O’Hara’s campaign was smart. It
started at the eleventh hour—too
late to be counteracted by the opposition, but late enough that its
effect would not wear off before
voting time. Furthermore it made
the campaign conducted by Yours
Truly look like a glass of luke
warm water beside a whisky and
soda.

Hard feelings almost arose out
of the campaign. After O’Hara
had been promised that none of
his work would be sabotaged,
someone went ahead and did just
that. Some felt Zwicker’s men did
it; others acused O’Hara’s men of
framing their opposition. It appears now thata third party innocently intervened, his well wishing
almost ending in war.

Anonymous phone calls also flew
around in the smaller hours of the
morning. The revelling caller said
each time ‘oVte for Zwicker’. The
question still remains — who made

the phone calls?
Es % *

Roy Atwood is another institution at Dal who often goes unsung.

by Noel Goodridge

With very little aid from his eyes
he conducts his bookstore in the
Gym and the canteen in the Men’s
Common Room to the best of his
ability. To satisfy all the students
is too much to expect when he
must operate from a small, dark
room, but Roy does the job so well
that he satisfies nearly all the students.

He has no written agreement
with the University by which none
may incringe upon his territory.
He depends upon his small business for his living. It is unthinkable that anyone would set up competition which would endanger his
livelihood. Few students would
patronize such an enterprise.

Since his canteen service was
shifted to the Common Room, he
has been unable to sell meals. But
with the decrease in _ business,
there has been a decrease in his
over head. Even Canada Catering
Company have not hurt his business. He pays no rent for his
premises in the Gym.

So Roy will carry on. When the
new Arts and Administration building is completed, the offices in the
West end of the Men’s Residence
will be vacated. These will, in all
probabilities, be handed over to
Roy that he may combine both his
book store and canteen under the
same.ceiling. Pending of course
that the Residence lasts so long.

* * *

The exam time tables are up
and students will wander through
Munro Day with a guilty conscience wondering if they should
be studying. Recently a poet offered a bit of advice to college students which might be well to bear
in mind... or is it too late.

Fie upon thee, little man

With thy slide rule in thy hand
Working at your charts all day
While your room mates drink

and play.

Push aside your cams and
charts.

Wise up, dodo, change to
Arts!

 

 

Hospitality That All
Canada Understands

Ask for it either way... both
trads-marks mean the same thing.

 

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

    

i 4 e r 1) Tt r .
y Gl] : ¢ i Paras jh S. ;
= 4 N. - he 7 t
fv “ a ees Ty Poh ig he ee dl -—
A. * bf Ls ed baa , ) f it a ho bis

iP nS oe as . td

|| Wednesday, March 8 at 1:30 p.m.
in Room 18. Everyone Welcome, |

 
    
 
 

ar ;

"3

  

 

st

       

 

  

= 40 an 7 SP Aber 4 : 3 " rid . c
mt Bh feed Xo ~ i. aN - i
= Re eS a a ae oP pe = Sr in Ma io This ee eh Rea) eee A = ===
 

 

The 1950 edition of the Dal boxing team will
wind up training on Tuesday and entrain for Fredericton, the home of the University of New Brunswick, where this year’s Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing Tournament will be held. The meet will start on
Wednesday with the semi-finals in all divisions, and
on Thursday evening the finals will be run off and
the champions crowned.

Dalhousie will send a seven-man team to the
meet; all divisions except lightheavyweight. The (ess
boys have been working hard for the last two months,
and all are in top shape for the grande finale of the
year’s activities.

Chief Coach Percy Paris, leading contender for
the Maritime lightweight title, will accompany the
squad.

DAVE RAMMASAR, Trinidad, B.W.I., bantamweight. Dave represented Mt» A. in last year’s Olympic trials and went to the finals
in the bantam division.

JOEL CHRISTIANSON, Halifax, featherweight. Joel is a former
star on the swimming team and a P.T.I. in the Navy. He is the boy
who amazed the crowds at the football games with his displays of gymnastics. A very solid citizen and a stiff puncher, Joel should do well
in the tournament.

MURRAY DUBCHANSKY, Boston, Mass., lightweight. The most
outstanding boxing prospect Dal has seen for many years. Although he
has had no previous experience, Murray is a natural boxer and should
be a cinch for Maritime honors.

ANDY BERNA, New Waterford, junior welterweight. Andy
needs no introduction to followers of the pugilistic art. Two years ago,
fighting for St. F.X. in the middleweight division, Andy lost a split
decision to Ace Furlong in what was the best bout of the meet. Now,
two weight divisions lower, he is in the best shape of his career.

 

Italy during the last war. The
female parts in the movie have
been acclaimed by ‘Life’ magazine.

Ban Lifted

“Paisan” the celebrated movie of
the Italian director Rossellini has
had the censorship ban removed
and will be showing shortly in
Halifax. The movie is only one of
many famous European ‘movies
which have been brought here by
the Oxford Theatre in its new
policy to show the people the
foreign movies the critics liked
best. “Tight Little Island”, the
last movie of this type to be shown
was so popular that it was held
over.

“Paisan” is the story of a G.I. in

 

“The Students’ Drug
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and
Sundries, and for unexcelled
Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

ee

EE —_ —- —

 
 
 
 

 
 

Join the thousands of men who are
providing for financial security when
their working days are over through
Retirement Income Policies with...

 
 
  

YOU'LL FIND YOUR LOCAL
piste) ae BEA:

Ate

G. W. HIGGINS, Branch Manager
Bank of Nova Scotia Bldg.

 

 

 

Shown above are the three men
who direct the fortunes of the Dal
Varsity Boxing squad. On the left, |

Manager Don Kerr, serving his)
second term as manager.. Center, |
Coach Percy Paris, leading challenger for the Maritime lightweight title held by Kid Howard.
Right, Assistant Manager Gino
DiGiacinto, who has taken over
since the unfortunate retirement of |
former Manager Hank Presutti. All
photos on this page are the work |
of Gazette photographer Dipe Mar- |
shall. |

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

9, Prince St. Dial 3-8539

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N. S.

79 Upper Water St.

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

   
     
  

Seat tee

 

Sia

a

 

Say SCHWARTZ
and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

JOEL MATHESON, Moncton, senior welterweight. Joel is another newcomer to Dalhousie. A
former X-Man, and a performer for that University,
he has improved tremendously under the guidance of
Percy Paris. Two weeks ago, in the elimination bouts;
Joel pounded out a decision over capable Vaughan
Baird of Winnipeg in a bout that brought the spectators to their feet.

GORDON MACDONALD, Marble Mountain, C.B.,
middleweight. Last year in the middleweight finals
“Juicer” lost a decision to Allan Neil of U.N.B. In
the elimination bouts he displayed great improvement
in stopping Dave Nicholson of Halifax in the second
round via the T.K.O. route, and then battled a three
round exhibition with big Jim Cruikshanks.

JIM CRUIKSHANKS, Sydney, Maritime Heavyweight champion.
Jim has held the Maritime title for the past two years and has never
been beaten in a fight. Measuring 6’5” and weighing in at 200 lbs.,
sig Jim as also a star on the Rugby squad.

Accompanying the team will be Manager Don Kerr, former Varsity boxer and Silver Gloves champion, and Assistant Manager Gino
DiGiacinto, both of Halifax. It is possible that ex-coach Jack Mce
 

(Pee

The Right Smoke
_at the Kight Price
for Young Men

 

BIRKS

Headquarters for Quality
Insignia at Favorable
Prices.

[If you have your Class Insignia,
why not think of attaching this
to such articles as Identification
Bracelets, Compacts, and many
other useful gifts which may be
seen at Birks.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.

Halifax, N. S.

Vc Y
‘\\\ f

\ aN
ey

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

ee ieidae ee ade

a

—

 

 

 
 

 
