     
   
 

a

ce 7 DA ey ee.
Ni ID ii } ” &

 

   

 
 

    

;
reo ; aa ae
« ke ee F ek

on Te . iy

 

i » fl? Se

aay Sy ome ri i.
a ¥ a eee a
ee eu

ea Be at a i? Tes A
sy Mew aa Oe poe! eats, e tw :
: é 7 Pree on. . ,

CCARDAX. TO CONTEST VACANT SEAT ,

DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

ry

ARTS
AND
SCIENCE
DANCE
SATURDAY

 

   
   
   
   
 

 

 

  


 

 

_ At the Student Forum...

 

ey

. Windy O'Neill Standing

Case of Urquhart v. Baccardax

Arouses Interest at Law School

With the nomination Wednesday, of Al Baccardax, a
third year law student, as Progressive-Conservative candidate for the constituency of Richmond in the Nova Scotia
Legislative Assembly, a new and greater interest in politics

~

was aroused at the Dalhousie Law School.

For the Liberal

Candidate opposing Mr. Baccardax is to be Earl Urquhart,
also a third year law student at Dalhousie. The forthcoming
electorial contest will be followed closely by all Dalhousians.

: AL BACCARDAX

On Wednesday November 23, Al
Baeccardax a third year Law student received the P-C nomination
at St. Peters, for the forthcoming
provincial by-election in Richmond

— County.

.
oer,

»
.

Al was born at Porierville, Richmond County, some twenty-seven
years ago. During the War he
served for five years in the
R.C.A.F. He is in his sixth year at
Dal, and received his B. Com. degree in 1948.

This year he is President of Sod
‘ ales and President of the Maritime

Intercolegiate Debating League. In
past years he has been active in
debating, both interface and intercollegiate. Al is well known at
both Studley and Forrest, and his
fate will be watched with much interest on December 20.

Plans Made for

a. Rifle Club

It is anticipated that a Military
_ Rifle Association will be formed at
Dalhousie in the near future under

-«, the sponsorship of the Dal-King’s

>

       

an
| Canadian
# 30 aps. please Bene!

- Contingent C.0.T.C. Eligible for
a eee all members of the

Canadian Navy, Army and Air
Force (Reserve and Active), members of the COTC and the UNTD,
veterans of any commonwealth service and persons over-age and/or
medicaly unfit for service in the
Forces. Interested perEd Belliveaes at

ee
ee een eee ee eee ee en

EARL URQUHART

Earl Urquhart, Dal law student,
received the Liberal nomination for
the Richmond by-eleetion on November 16 in St. Peters.

Earl is twenty-eight years old
and was born in West Bay, Richmond County. During the war he
served for four and a half years in
the R.C.A.F. and previous to that
taught school for two terms.

He is past President of the campus Liberal Club, and was Law
representative to the Students
known intercollegiate debater and
Council in ’48-’49. Earl is well
in 1948 won the MacDonald Oratorical Award and the Viscount
Bennet Shield.

This is his fourth year at Dal,
and on December 20 the results of
the election will be watched with
much interest by Dal students.

CBC to Send Personal
Wishes for Students

Through the facilities of the International Service of the Canadian
Broadcasting Corporation, students
on the campus from the Caribbean
area are able to send personal
Christmas greetings to their friends and relatives back home. This
includes students from Bermuda,
Jamaica, St. Lucia, Barbados, Trinidad and British Guiana. Will those
students who are interested -in
taking advantage of this opportunity, kindly contact Ralph L.
Persad, at Pine Hill Residence, before Monday 28th, inst. Phone

| 38-8576,

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1949

+

— ATTITUDE IS BLAMED
OR LACK OF COLLEGE SPIRIT

No. 16

 

lan Moreira, Student Council Prasilent
Gives “State of Union’ Address to
Crowded Student Forum in Gymnasium

-_——— —-- - 2)

NFCUS Plans Debate
At Ottawa in March

Under the auspices of the Canadian University Debating Association, an organization fostered by
N.F.C.U.S., the national debating

‘finals will take place on the Fri
day and Saturday of the first week
in March. This year, the interuniversity debating on the national
lével will be particularly interesting because of its bi-lingual character. The debating finals will be
hed at the University of Ottawa,
the only bi-lingual university in
Canada.

Paul Demarais, Vice-President of
N.F.C.U.S., is securing a trophy
for the victors in the national contest. The proposed name of the
award is the Macdonald-Laurier
Trophy, in keeping with the bilingual character of the debates.

It was announced by the
N.F.C.U.S. executive that Leslie
Rowland has become Secretary
Treasurer of the C.U.D.A. He was
chosen on the recommendation of
the delegation from the University
to Manitoba who attended the
meeting of the N.F.C.U.S. National
Council held at Ottawa in September.

 

NOTICE

“The Physics Journal Club will
meet in the Physics Lecture Room
on Tuesday, November 29 at 5
P. M. The first speaker, Mr. L. C.
Johnson, will discuss “Wadlen Inversions in Sugar Alcohols’. Dr.
L. G. ‘Stephens-Newsham, the

 

second speaker, will deal with the |

“Double
meter”,

Focusing Beta-Spectro- |

“The Unversity, whether on purpose or not, has gone as
far as it can to suppress college spirit without provoking it.”’
Thus spoke Art Moreira, President, of the Students’ Council,
at the Student Forum held yesterday in the Gymnasium as
he lashed out against the suppressive tactics employed by the

University against the Student Body.

Three hundred stu
dents crowded into the Gym bleachers to greet Mr. Moreira’s

remarks with mixed feelings.

Opening his address, Mr.
eira quoted an Editorial from a recent issue of the GAZETTE (Nov.
8) which read: “The growth and

development of the spirit of Dal- |

house has been stunted and warped |
by the oppressive shadow of Conservatism and obsolete university
ideals.” He admitted there were
other factors influencing Dalhousie’s lack of spirit but stated
that these were mere shadows compared to the attitude of the University.

The University has contributed
to these activities in such matters
as a rink, a football field, a physical director and a ground hockey
coach but these contributions were
made through necessity rather than
willingness to co-operate.

The University, from the Board
of Governors down to the teaching
staff, guide their actions to please
the neighbours. The students are
not considered and the University
attitude either restrictive or
negative.

This was plainly seen in the recent curtailment of Initiation
which, Mr. Moreira felt, was the
seed of College Spirit. Never does
a student feel that he is part of
any University till he has undergone the traditional rituals of~in
1S

itiation which are forbidden at Dal- |

housie.

Mr. Moreira then reminded the

‘students that part of his platform

Mor-®

Explain Delay of Year
Book at Student Forum

In addition to the “State of the
Union” address of Art Moreira,
President of the Students Council,
at the Students’ Forum, a report
on on the progress of “Pharos”, the
Dalhousie Year Book, was given.
It was explained that by midsummer about half the material for
the book was ready for the printers, and that further progress during the summer was prevented by
a misfortune to a member of the
staff.

last year was closer co-operation
with the Senate. This he has not
been able to achieve since he had
found no similar attitude in the
minds and actions of the authorities. He pointed out that many, of
the specific instances of lack of cooperation were unknown to the student body and could only be seen
by those directly involved. Nevertheless, he claimed, there have been
many such instances although on
the face of it, the Dalhousie Student Council Constitution gives
greater freedom to student government than that given to most Canadian Students. The Council has
not been permitted to take advantage of tats freedom.

Poll Seneels ‘Most Students Approve Moreira’s Speech
Though Some Believe Blame Not Entirely One-Sided

In general students on the Cam-| Art Moreira.

There is no spirit

pus agree with the statement made| here and the reason seems to be

yesterday by Art Moreira, President of the Students’ Council,
the effect that college spirit is
lacking at Dalhousie.. While most
agree with him also that the cause
of this is the attitude taken by the
university authorities, there are
some who feel that the blame
should be apportioned, and that the
student body is not entirely blameless in the matter.

The following is a sample of student opinion on this subject selected from students at random.

Dave Parker: “I agree with Art
Moreira. The university imposes
many restrictions and then turns
arouns and helps the students, but
their help is not enough to make
up for the restrictions.”

John Smallman: “I .agree with

to |

|

that the university does not help
it. It seems to me that the Senate
steps on everything. The whole
college is too conservative.”

Carol Wood: “Active interest of
the University in student activities
would be a fine thing but there
must be a corresponding student
interest to go with it.”

John Pauley: “I endorse wholeheartedly the report of Art Moreira. I would certainly welcome
the preparation and presentation of
a brief on the subject, for if it ever
was necessary, this is the time.”

Sherburne McCurdy: By and
large I would endorse the words of
President Moreira, but I would be a
little more selective in the application of blame.

Bob MacDougall:

Moreira because I have seen numerous particular incidents of what
he said, particularly the custom of
telling new students that they can

engage in extra-curricular activities and then putting the clamps
on them, not that I have been
clamped personally.”

Harold MacFarlane: “It is not

the Senate or Faculty that will promote college spirit, it must be the
students. The only people I see
around here showing any effort to
get up spirit are the various societies, such as the Arts and Science
and Commerce”.

Ted Rowntree: “I agree in part,
with what Moreira said. I feel that
our spirit is not what it should be
around here, If the University is
the cause, as he seems to think,
and he should know better than I,

“I agree with| then something should be done,
  
        
     
      
           
         
      
            
          

  

Pie: ‘Published ettce a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie

Isis ts ly ee. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
ate: pi ‘Students’ Council, For subscriptions write Business Manager,
apa ae housie Gazette,’ Halifax, N. S.

. a

jtorial. Office: res Se EN Re eae Sheek Alba cun/njars ns 3-7098
Pe MOMS hee AR cnx atecers Editors-in-Chief

  

 
 

cf WAM eee cc. ...,.++.Managing Editor

PUM Rn et Ny ditt a os « Advertising Manager
PRUNE RMIT he ilk Sy crete aiela'd sess weiee tediauns Office Manager
teeter bee ORT as ay Ua ck aay ba, hava! 38 C.U.P. Editor

Wednesday, November 23—

Up early and to the office of the
Spectator, (Early Edition) where I
did see Airwick Bicker, a budding
journalist, writing at his desk,
weeping the while. He did look up
from his work to wipe off his flowing eyes and chanced to see me,
whereupon he fled screaming from
the room. Curious as to this I did
examined the essay he had been
composing to see if it would reveal
the cause and found it to be an

EDITORIAL STAFF

  

ag . Peas oh Ne se Aes Ba gies side oes ures e's Sports Editors

ie i ts Reporters WPS bhi at Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
TRIOS WIRES. oy es.) 6 os)s os ose Barbara MeGeogh, Eliphal Nichols
eporters—Bruce Irwin, Pat ‘Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,

 
 

  

 
 
 
 

     
       
  
  
 

ply: “4 - Proof Readers
r nia ee

 

 
  
    
   
    
 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1949

TANGIBLE RESULTS

_ Tomorrow morning the Dalhousie Committee of the International Student Service will inaugurate a new policy on the
55s campus. In the past the policy has been to raise funds for
“Zi _ student relief in overseas countries. Although the local committee’s financial obligations to this prior policy will still continue
on a Smaler seale, at the same time far greater attention is to
be paid to matters of importance on the Dalhousie campus itself.

   

 
 

One such matter of importance—and the most important to
dateé—is that of students attending the university who derive
their income from the Sterling areas. The recent devaluation of
the pound has resulted in an apparent increase of about 30% in
fees and living expenses for each of these students. For each
dollar these students originally possessed with which to pay their
year’s costs, they now have approximately seventy cents.

      
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 

One student has already left college on this account. Many
more of the twenty-six students involved are experiencing great
difficulties. It is not pleasure to attend university with the worry
of tuition or Accommodation one one’s mind as well as the burden
of studies. The people concerned ar almost without exception
the finest type of student—diligent and intelligent. They are
certainly young men and women who will be able to make a
maximum contribution to their homeland when they return upon
graduation, and who will be credits to the name of Dalhousie.

Because of the immediate need for action on the matter and
the worthiness of the students, the [S.S. committee on the
campus has decided to hold a Tag Day tomorrow, and to allocate
the funds raised to the setting up of several scholarships to be
awarded on the basis of need and scholastic ability.. The cause is
without doubt a worthy one and is therefore entitled to your
financial support and your time. These students are in many
cases your own friends, and again—fellow Dalhousians.

     
    

In past years, criticism has been levelled at the I.S.S. for
giving support in those places where its effects could not be
gauged by the contributors—namely in overseas countries. This
year, the effects of your support will be both tangible and highly
satisfying.

  
  
 
  

 

>

A STUDENT GYMNASIUM

The Dalhousie gymnasium is supposedly operated for the
benefit of three organizations—the D.A.A.C., the D.G.A.C., and
the Glee Club. Yet for the past few years théve three organizations haye been given second consideration only. They have been
allowed their choice of nights, but only after groups and clubs
with no campus affiliations whatsoever have had their pick of the
best nights.

 

 

 

 
  
  
  
 
 
    
  

 

  

At the beginning of each year, a list of dates desired by
these outside groups is made up... made up inflexibly. Then
that list is submitted to authorities in the gymnasium—not for
approval—but that they might arrange their activities around
the specified dates.

   
   
    
 

 

  

It is too much to ask that the students, for whom the gym. Nasium was built, be given first preference in its use? We do not
suggest that outside organizations be entirely excluded, but certainly their time allotments should be subject to student time
allotments.

    
 
 
  
 

       
   
   
      
     
   
        
 
 
     
   
        
    
 
   
   
 
      
    
 

 
  

- Should one trouble to check the actual number of nights
given these non-student groups, this complaint would seem petty
indeed. Seventeen nights have been allotted. But nights alone
are not involved. These organizations require that chairs be set
up for them. The chairs take an afternoon to put up. They take
a morning to take down. And the outside group has used a complete day of the available time.

  

  

It has happened that these engagements have made it impossible for teams to practice for an entire week. The Glee Club
has been forced to dismantle sets two days before a production,
and dismantle them again immediately after the production. And
all too often one can enter the gym to find a musical rehearsal
and a basketball practice running concurrently.

 
 

 
 

  

The matter might appear in a different light were rentals
involved . . . but none are charged. If Dalhousie were under any
obligation to provide space, it might be justified. And if the
great majority of students attended events staged by the outside
. Btoups, it would be justified.

 

ei: ce But none ot these Situations exist., Present methods can-
  

ee ets cersruoneats torts be be made, ;

 
 

No. 16

VL | eee

LatiGasee + sani 4g

Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone, | obituary of myself for inclusion in
_ Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay. : :
a the Spectator.
7 MEM Be. Ue a ew siatgih cso Vay siae e-vy.8 eles a piers Photgrapher g ‘h it robe By hl
hy Catpoonist.. Pee Pals hia dip eae oa Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald eae ee ee ern
i th 7 Re-Write Lucy Calp of events I stopped Lightdaughter,
Pe MAU ENULe ee oleae ts wae Gloria Horne, Rona Yess| "2d of the AIN’T who chanced to

pass by. He informed me that!
many people were the impression
that I had passed away. He then
grew agitated and waxed eloquently about a publick solicitation to
be made by the AIN’T, whereby
funds would be raised. He did |
then have the audacity to ask me
if I would solicit contributions
from the denizens of taverns, as|
last year one of his assistants, |
Weeda McKickin’, had been forcibly ejected from the Lady Hamil- |
ton, which does not permit wenches |
to enter. I called him a scurvy
knave for suggesting that I would
reign to enter a tavern to solicit |
funds. I left him in a huff. Thence
to the Lady Hamilton, where I did |

 

manage to borrow enough to afford |

a bottle of sack, my wretched wife |
having hidden my weekly allot- |

ment. |

Thursday, November 24, 1949— | |

To the college on the hill, where |
I found much running to and fro. |
It séems that a general meeting |
of all the scholars is to be held |
today and the various groups are)
preparing for it so that their views |
may be made known. It seems that |
Faroff, the scholars’ Domesday- |
book, will be discussed, and the|
conduct, of relations with the Arca-|
dians.

Friday, November 25, 1949—

|
|

}

Up early and to the school of |
where there is |
great interest in the forthcoming |
of Parlia- |

It doth seem |
one Duke)

the Law Students,

campaign for member
ment for the rotton borough of the
county of Poorman.
that a student at law,
Urpert, hath been selected to run)
for the Whigs, while a classmate |
of his, All Baechussacks is to be|
the Biaios of the Tories.

I. spoke. on this matter to one
Vaintoe, who said that if the
Whigs were to take a piece of ran
cid horseflesh and name it as their
candidate they would still be able |
to carry the constituency, so credi- |

ble are the inhabitants of that district. Considering that he, himself, is from thereabouts, methinks
that he may be right.

One Loose Blockhead, a law stu-|
placing |
He is giv- |
ing odds of three to one that the |
the Law|

dent; is going about,
Wagers on the contest.
be from

winner will

School.

Thence to Studlee, where I met |
was |
a legal |

All-Fed-up-with-Harris.
carrying under his arm
tome with “Agency” on the cover.
He doth carry this about with him
wherever he may chance to go and
methinks he doth use this to conceal the volumes of French poems
that he is wont to peruse, presenting a most studious attitude to the |
professors the while.

He

|
He did tell me that he was go-|
dismal] |

ing to move from his
quarters on Souse Street to take
up residence in a more fashionable
quarter of town. Methinks that he
is being forced to do this to escape
his landlady as he evaded the question of paying of rent-monies for
a long time and she has threatened
to bring a Writ of Debt.

Whilst we were talking we saw
Vaintoe creep stealthily from the
college, carrying under his arm a

(Serer nee. 0 on page 8)

 

eae, nit se > ohhh ta: é

 

  

  
 

   
 
 
       
   
    

Picobac is Priceaidiialad hesitates alah

FORSYTH’S

  

 

When you’ve picked
your pipe right—pick your
tobacco right. Pick Picobac
the pick of pipe tobaccos,

Dicobac

Tobacco the coolest, nese} tobacco ever grown

They’re as Pocclar,

rings. with

at Birks.

MEN’S SHOP Dalhousie
. are the popular choice,
Headquarters
for In stock

Fine Clothing - Sweaters
and Furnishings

Discount

Extended to all DAL Students

262 Gottingen St.

|
4-1172 ssa
|

The
|| gold crest on black onyx stone
‘} |

Registered Jeweller,
Halifax, N. S.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

A.G.S.

 

Good News for

 

NIGHT OWLS!

Recommended for proms and

ae f glee club concerts, these smart

and comfortable Arrows are
perfect for college formal wear.
Cluett, Peabody & Company

of Cahada Limited.

Look for the Registered Trade Mark ARROW

ARROW SHIRTS

” TIES e HANDKERCHIEFS

 

i - ae =

”

: J ealeaianilis ee
 
 
  

 

-T-SQUARE

( Chief news this week concerns

   
 
 
  

 

inter-fae sport, or the lack of it.
+ |The rugby games have been con.<- |spicuous by their absence, the
| scheduled tilts with Law and Arts
& Science having been postponed
during the past ten days with
monotonous regularity. The reank son is ,of course, that the Kings
H authorities are understandably
chary of teams tearing up their
field while it remains in a soft and
sticky condition, and so far the
weatherman has not been co-operative. With snow taking the place
of rain as a playing hazard it looks
as though the ruggah boys will
have a hard time completing their
schedule.

The same sort of situation has
oecurred before and no doubt will
ocur again, until something definite is done. Added playing space
would seem to be the only adequate
solution.

The Engineer’s basketball entry
stands to be the most smartly
this season. At a meeting of the
Society last Tuesday it was voted
that the team be equipped with
a es ew Biackand white shorts, to be

ce ' pears to me that some one hath| worn with white T-shirts. Such

ai yam Peeps-- seen him in his eups recently when] Sartorial spenlour will undoubtedly
; a (Continued from Page Two) he is proceeded to Marmalade|raise morale, and (we hope) the
i - mysterious object wrapped in an} Hovel and endeavoured to seale the | Scoring tally. it
a MEN old Spectator. He did blanch like| building by ascending the vines| If the efforts of the organizing
et a damsel when he saw us and en-| which grow up the walls. But as|committee are any indication, the
deavoured to conceal the objejet,| he hath grown corpulent of late| Boilermakers’ Dance in the gym.
_behind him. It chanced to fall and|the vine collapsed, depositing him|toight (Friday) should be a roaring
’ All-fed-up-with-Harris and I pick-|in the gutter. Some person must}success. If you haven’t already
- ed it up and examined the object,| have seen him thus and described|made plans to be in on the fun,
' which proved to be an oil-painting.| the scene on canvas for all to see.| don’t forget there’s still time .. .
i. fr This pickture depicts Vaintoe, ly-| I suspect that Miss Canna ‘See’er | tickets on sale at the gym. door for
a We ing prone in a gutter, with one arm/| may be the object of his attentions,|only 1 (one) rasbucknik.
wrapped about a post and the|for methinks she is a marvellously other clinging to a vine. It ap-|betwitching wench, though a deni
ra epror tt Is Not
peround the Campus Des. To Reason Why

The room was strewn with the
first snowfall of notes—notes in
everybody’s writing but my own.
Bed and chairs alike were laden
with books and papers. The whole
effect was very deceiving. It looked
as if a worker rather than a drone
inhabited aforesaid room. The only
sound was the never ceasing tick
of the clock — “Forever, never,
Never, Forever”. As each minute
passed I grew more and more

‘desperate. I couldn’t imagine myself getting through that pile of
work on time. I longed to hurl a
book at the clock, stop time, leave
the sheaf of notes and the burden
of work and go out and dig
ditches. Some peculiar kind of
reasoning kept me at my work.

LL My hand passed across my brow

and the weight of my father’s
words lay heavily upon me. I looked back over the past two months
and felt like Wee Willie looking
for lost time in a bird’s nest. I
gazed with horror at my desk,
overladened with books, coffee
cups, and a solitary can of Carnation Milk. How I envied those
“contented cows”. There was no
sound now—the clock must have
stopped, and I was entriely alone
in my misery. There was nothing
but Silence — myself — the books
and the notes. The words left the
page, went between my eyes, and
returned to the page, but my mind
remained a blank. ‘Then and there

 
 

   
 

  

 

F

     

 
 

 
   

  

 

 

 
   

 

  
    
    

 

gaye. “And I thought
Chairmen had it easy”

 
   
      

     

      
 
  

es I made my usual resolution that I
hae i ‘ yould never let myself get into
Ke h r wou y. £
‘a Egbert .. : nae four years such a state again—but I knew I
ib to get the top job on the campus... would.
Me, only to find it means more work and After about an hour of this
msi less leisure. , hopeless state of affairs I gave up
F One thing he latched onto quickly hs oe en i eee
| though was that the best way to stop ea Se Ge
| - , chair and started to heave, with
Gow! moaning those leaky-pocket blues vee such strength as I had left, the
. to stow away those spare sheckels ina great mass of literature off the
Ms savings account at “MY BANK”. bed, and I crawled in. A last look
- Don’t leave them in your jeans... lay around the room revealed such a
a ‘ } state of hopelessness that I sank
re aside those extra beans! ; ,
gl sales down among the pillows with a

groan. Oh Death, where is thy

ee

Sting? «Oh grave, where is thy

BANK oF MONTREAL eetty
Canada's First Sank Notice

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY. WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817 A meeting will be held in
=e Room 20 of the Engineering

  

rey

a,
Hes.” ie
pie! TT a E

 

 
 

‘y

 
     

   

    
 

¥
= ,
ws
>
o .

 
  

  
  

ee hs es ak 2 i eat Building at 8.00 p.m. on Mon__ JOHN A, HOBSON, Mgr. __ Halifax Branch: day, November 28, for all
_ JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mgr, those interested in either em
   

North End Branch: ployment or training with the
sa entrees, Fesea snd Kline St: | R.C.A-F., next: summer.

  
   
 

7 . cI
ak ie aah Bf sa. . 4 Ait of ? — fi ra " Pe: - ee ' eis A E ; ae

Bes ih aN

    

‘ a . \
a ad, Lee ‘A. pil ey { abt Ne : ‘-_
leh lags eee ©” Bet Lets it ttle he | _ as gee et el

 

3
a

 

The — |
Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

 
  

   

 
  

For a long time, there has been something smouldering
under our elephantine skin. Every once in a while, our generation feels the sting of a rebuke thrown at us by some old dodger
of the passing fathers—yes, and usually, one who, in an unchristian manner, in direct defiance of Biblical authority, has deliberately extended his life beyond three-score-and-ten.

What an inane race we have begotten! Oh! the paucity of the times!
What’s to become of the world in their hands? What’s the matter
with our universities, they’re teaching socialism, communism, and
atheism! These statements all have been uttered — and with a
dangerous pinkish flush from protesting, old hearts. There have been
many signs, of late, that this generation is beginning to resent that
attitude.

How about the old boys, themselves? How did they do?
In our humble opinion, out of the admittedly sparce knowledge
we have gained from our errant university, we think the words
‘hypocrisy and over-confidence’ signify their times; ‘cynicism
and fear’ signify ours,

Did you ever see a tintype of a graduating class taken around
the turn of the century? It looks like a still shot of a game of
musical chairs, with each beau showing his handsome person in the
best perspective. Although never yet seeing it, we suppose that if
one’s ears jutted at a graceful slant, a rearview would be the only

permissible angle. Did you ever hear of hip flasks, Stutz coupes, coon

coats, and swallowing goldfish? In the old days, in the courting swim,
a handlebar moustache was the only thing—wear one and your girl
would be tickled with you.

Then about world affairs: the different empires of our predecessors liberated the backward native populations of the world ¥
and gobbled up their lands, and kept gobbling until there was no
more to gobble. Then they started to gobble each other—result
—World War I. This all proved that our side were great men,
winning the ‘war to end all wars’. Then; as anyone who reads
Lord Keyne’s great book will see, they gave a just peace, which
had a great deal to do with World War II. The question of how
such grossly unfair terms, from our Christian nations to another
Christian nation, could work out, has driven many historian to
the needle.

Our magnanimous forefathers, epscially those of the privileged
groups, gave their fellows a fine economic deal, with>a ten-hour-day, a
five-dollar week, and as many job-seekers outside the plant as there
were workers at the machines. The inevitable result of this was the
labour union and the welfare state. In their age, we say the rise of
Science and materialism. Anything that couldn’t be pried apart in a
test tube, just wasn’t important. The result is, they have thrown
the atom bomb in our lap, without enough religion and philosophy to
manage it.

Sure, the times are sparse, and the passing generation
thinks we are rebellious and cynical, but look at the heritage
we have been handed. Probably, the best thing to do is to grin
and bear it. We tried that, but all we can’manage is a sneer.
Don’t worry, old fellows, with the fear for the world that you
have given this generation, we'll do all right; so if it’s criticism
and not advice you’re giving, either keep quiet or pass on.

 

Thirst Knows
No Season

Ye
he @ ] ay
TRADE MARK REG

ee isk for it either wa
... both trade~marks
mean the same thing, **

 

496X

TUNE IN Every Sunday Evening
EDGAR BERGEN with CHARLIE McCARTHY
Dominion Network & CFRB-8:00 p.m. E.S.T,

 

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

 

as ie = 5S Mage, 2 ais a = Pe... . i. : = = 4 =

 
     
      
      
 
      
    
     
     
     
 
  
     
      
   
   
      
 
       
    
     
   
    
    
    
    
   
      
      
   
     
 
    
    
    
      
        
          
      
  
    
     

              
     
       
      
   
 
          
   
       
       
          
    

a

Apter
has a ‘

hea’
jee “he
dian football players could come back for early training on Sept. 13,

ae , ees"

‘By JOE LEVISON) .

ite ak in A bind Gazette on the lack of university support, no accuns” that this organization or that one wants all the gravy while
thletes get the garbage. As a result the inconspicuous manner in
peniass have been picking up at Dalhousie has escaped the eyes of

‘Bo make my point, here is a parital account of the things that the
w” diplomacy has accomplished. Some things have been granted

», but many more have not. i

te _ In co-operation with the DAAC the university obtained a new
‘al director who has proved himself an able organizer and fine
act h of varsity teams as well. This important change in policy (coachg and organizing both) has proven itself already as one in which

i A grant of $1000. 00 from the university to pay for expenses
curred in the renting of ice for the hockey season. This grant is/
licable to both varsity and interfac expenses.

An arrangement was made with the university whereby Cana
Ef with: lodging and board found.

es

4 Regarding the plans for the new rink the members of the

Rugby Notice

The D.A.A.C. has requested
that the following notice be published in the Gazette: All English Rugby equipment MUST be
turned in to Mr. O’Brien at the
Gym before Noy. 30, 1949. This
includes all Interfaculty gear as
well as the Varsity equipment.
If the gear is not turned in this
month, the persons in whose
names it was drawn will be
charged for it.

Maybe This

4 aac were consulted and their suggestions and recommendations |.

were respected.
5. The bill run wp by the Canadian football team at the Wan derers grounds for use of shower and drassing room facilities and field

€ was. paid i in full by the university.

4
,

we a

Ts ve

— ta

=o
*, ee

nS
a =

ao.
iy
awl

rad

a al
ovr ee

- 6. Granted the football team the use of a field on the campus,
" which while small and jumpy nevertheless pulled the team out of a
hole.
_ %. The university consented to share with the students on a 50/50
basis costs of installing the new stands which have been placed in the

gymnasium. This involved $6,000.00 expenditure.

This is a list of the more important things which have been trans
| acted to date. This year there will be more matters in which the

A Ay

ay?

DAAC and university can co-operate to the betterment of both. This

corner thinks that the present DAAC has found the formula which will
give the best results. To keep everyone in the picture, to present each
case factually without emotional harangues, to have realized that the

university is the authoritative body and is hereby entitled to respect—
_ this can be said to be the policy of the DAAC 1949-50. It has already

given us the “big seven”.

 

ta Leads In ileter-fac!Ruoby Loop,
Basketball To Start Early Next Term

Inter-Faculty Basketball will
definitely start after the Christ
Here, is the present situation in|
Inter-Fac Rugger League. The

Law Team, with one game yet to|

play is in first place, the ‘En
gineers still have two ‘games unplayed, the Arts & Science Team
has one game left to play and the

_ Commerce Team has completed. its

schedule. If Law loses their final
game there will be a three-way tie
for first place. .
This situation has been brought
about by the inability of the
_ League to use the King’s field, due

mas Vacation so all you interested “swish-artists” get in touch
with your Faculty managers now.
Sherm Zwicker wishes to ifiform
all Faculties that if they intend to
have a team, they must get in
touch with him as soon as possible.

Coach Vitalone says that InterFac Hockey will be well organized
this year with at least eight teams
participating. All hockey enthusiasts are urged to take part in this
League,

to weather conditions.

eGR /,

Eee
- 0

“Hold on, folks! Handsome Harry is saying
something to his opponent. Let’s listen!”

(On the air.)—“‘Say, you lug! If you’d lick

Dry Scalp with “‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic you’d

have nice looking hair and get across with
the crowd, too.”

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

TRADE MARK

Big Turnout

Ti laa i V arsity

Team In First Exhibition Game

The girls “A” basketball squad chalked up their first win of the
season on Tuesday when they defeated the Grads 22-17. This was an
exhibition game, and does not count in league standing.

Grads have had only one practice this year, so the superior ball
handling and floor play of the Varsity team was evident from the opening whistle. It was a slow game, the “A’s” passing play was far ahead
of the visitors, but considering their lack of workouts they will probably prove to be a threat to Varsity before the season is up.

—_———— Marilyn MacIntyre held the posi
|tion of high scorer with 10 points.
| Betty Cousins had 6 points. Gerry
Grant and Fran Doane looked after
the rest of the scoring for Varsity.
(Miss) “Foo” Grant played a good
game on the forward line.

Lib Doull, former Varsity star,
was the mainstay of the Grads.
\Julie Sherman, Eileen Landrigan
'and Joyce Parker put in a strong
game.

}

}

The “A” team guards were really tops. Betty Petrie was exceptionally starry. Her intercepting
/'was sensational. Lucy Calp, also
it many a potential Grad
basket,

Officials for the game. were:—
'timer—Jerr y McCurdy, scorer—
Connie Cyr, announcer — Ralph
Medjuck, referee — Gay Esdale,
umpire Pat Ahern.. By the way we
hope that Betty Merrick’s sprained
ankle is improving!!!

The game scheduled for next
Tuesday (29), between the “A”
team and the “Y” will be played at
‘the “Y”, at 7 p.m. There will not
be any regular basketball at
|D.G.A.C., the whole Gym will be
reserved for badminton and archery.

. DAL PLAY KINGS
IN JUNIOR GAME

|. The Dalhousie Junior Basketbalt
Team Can Do I[t

 

Q

team will take on the King’s Juniors in an exhibition game at the
Dal Gym, Saturday night, Nov. 26
at 7:30 P.M. This will be the

As Boxing

Season Gets Underway

The boxing season opened on
Wednesday night when about 20
prospective boxers turned out for
the first meeting of the year. It
was decided that the training periods would not start until after the
holidays. Manager Hank Presutti
reported that Coach Jack McKenna
will be back to run the training
session.

Coming back from last year’s
team are Jim Cruikshank, the Maritime Heavyweight Champ, Gordy
MacDonald, middleweight, Dave
Boswell, lightweight, and “Arpy”
Robertson, Bantamweight. The last |
three named were all runners-up in
their divisions in the Intercollegiate meet.

Some of the outstanding newcomers include Andy Berna, Dave
Rammasser, Mike Delory, and Joel
Christianson. Berna is the lad
from St. F.X. who lost a split decision to “Ace” Furlong two years
ago in the middleweight finals.
Andy will be fighting as a Junior
Welterweight, and should be a sure
bet to take the title. Ramasser,
who comes from Trinidad, fought
in the Olympic ,trials, and will
battle for the Bantam slot with
Robertson and Christianson.

The biggest news of the meeting
was that concerning “Ace” Furlong.
“Ace”, one of the best boxers to
come out of Dal in the last decade,
took a successful fling at professional fighting two years ago. Because of this he was barred from
the Intercollegiate meet. Efforts
are now being made to have him
reinstated as an amateur.

However, Manager Presutti |
would like to stress the fact that
all the positions are open, and will
be given to the most PeNTIne applicants.

——$—{—_—_—

D.V.A. NOTICE

November cheques for students
under benefits are expected for

payment on Tuesday and Wednes- |

day next week. Please watch the
notice boards for definite hours of
payment.

Kingsmen’s first game of the season and Coach Nesbitt expects a
strong showing from his charges.

The Junior Tigers are looking
for their first win of the season,
the Vita-men have been practising
hard since their recent defeat at
the hands of Q.E.H. and are expected to make an _ extremely
strong showing. There is nothing
more encouraging to a squad, however, than a crowd of cheering
| spectators, so get out and support

 

Office of the Veterans’ Adviser,
November 22, 1949.

your team.

A Great Convenience
For Students...

EATON'S
Shopping
Service

EATON’S Shopping Service is ready to help you with
your shopping! .. . Call at the Store, phone, or write
in for expert help with your shopping . . . When you

buy at EATON’S, remember the EATON Guarantee:

‘Goods Satisfactory or
Money Refunded’”’

EATON

MARITIM

a ‘
a

HALIFAX

LIMITED

CANADA

 
