 
    

ne

ce

Vol. LXXXII

We Quit.......

HALIFAX, N.S

COUNCIL ANNOUNCES '

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

estar Oldest College Paper
, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1950

  

LAST
GAZETTE
OF

  
     
  

No. 40

 

NEW APPOINTMENTS ©

——_————#

Dr. Louise Thompson MacIntosh and Harris to Be Co-Editors

Appointed to Staff

The University has announced
the appointment of Dr. Louise |
Thompson, a graduate of UNB and |
Edinburgh, to the Department of |
Psychology at Dalhousie. She will |

Of Gazette; Dave Snow to Edit Pharos

At last Monday’s meeting of the Council of Students
appointments for the non-Council positions for the 1950 to
1951 term were made. Two Law students, Charles MacIntosh
and Alfred Harris were chosen to co-edit the Gazette. They

| had formerly served as News Editor and Business Manager

 

The Exodus

 

Lew Miller Winner of Beaver Club
Scholarship to study at Edinburgh

Lew Miller, fourth year Arts Student, arrived back from

Toronto last Sunday night as winner of a Beaver
him two years at Edinburgh Uni
Scholarship which offers

Club

versity in Scotland. Lew went to Toronto last week where
were assembled students from many Canadian Universities
who were trying out for this scholarship.

Lew Miller spent six years with

the Canadian Army during the war

going overseas on loan to the Fifth
Battalion of the Black Watch. He

manager, Editor of the Gazette,
chairman of the ISS committee and
has recently become Life President
of this year’s graduating class.
Lew, a native of Saint John, is

become a professor of Clinical)
Psychology, in.the faculty of Grad- |
uate Studies.

Dr. Thompson received her B.A. |

respectively. Eric Richter, an Arts and Science student, was
| appointed to the position of Publicity Director.
——_—_——_—_—_———————© The other campus positions were

D.A.A.C. Equipment

at the University of New Bruns- | filled as follows:

wick. From there she went to the; All D.A.A.C. equipment must be| Pharos Editor—David Snow
University of Edinburgh where she| turned into Mr. O’Brien immedi- | Personal Services Director—
received her Bachelor of Education.| ately. There is a large amount of | Orville Troy

Later she feceived Ph.D. from| gear, especially hockey equipment, Gazette Business Manager—
Yale. outstanding, and the players will | James MacDonald

Pharos Business Manager—
Alan Garcelon

Student Directory Publisher—
Alan Garcelon

be responsible for any not turned |
in before April 7, 1950.

She will arrive in Halifax early
in September.

 

Next Year’s Gazette Editors

| AN INVITATION

|is extended to all students inter(ested in professional social work
as a possible vocation to attend
|A Symposium on Mental Hygiene
and Social Work at King’s College,
April 11th at 4.15 p.m.

Miss Montgomery, Assistant Di|rector of the Maritime School of
Social Work and other trained
| social workers will be available at
the close of the meeting to confer
with students desiring information
concerning social work training requirements.

 

NOTICE

Applications are now being received by the D.A.A.C, for managerial positions for the fall term.

 

 

was discharged in 1945. ra ae
Coming to Dalhousie in 1946 he|now residing in Halifax with his | P posts of Canadian Football

became active in extra-curricular| wife, the former Miss Victoria | (2), English Rugby (2), and Ten- ,

activities. He has been football] Rogers. Charles W. MacIntosh Alfred L. Harris | nis are open. .

 

 

BREATHABLE UPPERS

SCIENTIFIC
FOOT-FITTING
eee

6
NON-SKID
CREPE DESIGN
OUTSOLE

 

a ee
2 e208 BF

Robert E. Hart

representing

THE MARITIME LIFE |
ASSURANCE COMPANY

HOME OFFICE, HALIFAX, N, S. * | |

;

Y

“Always at your service”

Phones: Office—3-8157 Home—3-4098

Green Lantern Building

 

ADS Pad) ‘A Plan to Fit Every Need”

aS a ba
ee ica

Bob Hart

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

5S. Cunard and Company, Limited

Installed and Serviced

NON-CHAFING TOE

DARTMOUTH, N. S.
79 Upper Water St.

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL .
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT ;

HALIFAX, N.S

'
li

 

 

The Eastern Trust Company

) RELIABILITY ... INTEGRITY ... PROTECTION

For over 50 years expert administrators of |
Funds, Securities and Estates

! Branches in six (
Eastern Provinces

| HEAD OFFICE: 184 HOLLIS STREET f
| HALIFAX, N. S. y

 

 
ey and thelr ramifications is out of the question.

 

pita means of which uople as individuals and proupe
nunicate with one another.
‘The existence of a complex society depends upon effec: media of transportation and communication among
nembers and the forms of a society will be powerfully
en need by the particular techniques available. If this

, we shoudl expect modern societies to have been con
‘ably affected by the great strides in these fields over

past fifty years. Most important and impressive have

the developments and widespread uses of the autoobile, aeroplane, telephone, radio, motion pictures and
- television. A full discussion here of these developments
A superial treatment confined to a few arbitrarily chosen
aspects must suffice.

Space constitutes a barrier to the movement of goods
from. where they are in abundant supply to where they
are scarce, The lower that barrier (that is, the lower the
cost of transportation) the more freely can these move‘ments take place. Such movements are also facilitated
. xy efficient communication which passes information cona ‘ cerning the goods from one place to another.

As in the nineteenth century the railroad and ship
continue to be the work horses of transportation. But
during the twentieth century both have undergone important improvements in speed, capacity, comfort and efficiency of power utilization. In addition, the use of refrigeration now permits a much wider distribution of fresh
agricultural products. The opening of the Panama Canal
in 1917 shortened many trade routes. Railroad lines were
extended in all parts of the world. 7

The automobile and aeroplane, which are true children
of the twentieth century, introduced much needed flexibility and speed to the movement of goods, people and
information. They have added to man’s mobility constituting part of the present challenge to the solidarity of
the home and family as fundamental social units. They
have also enabled man to make more effective use of his
time,

We should have expected the vast extension of the
range of communication to have brought peoples of different cultures to a deeper understanding of one another
with a resulting diminution of international conflict and
mutual enrichment of cultures. But breadth has not
brought depth. It seems that if literature and the arts
are to be spread widely on a national and international
level they must be spread very thinly and superficially
with the unfortunate result of communicating false impressions rather than fostering understanding and providing insight.

E Edecatlon: Real and Ideal . . . by Jim Proudfoot and Eldon Warren

In the past 50 years there has been grave danger that
idealistic attitudes to education of some of the members
_ of the university might lead to disaster. One of the most
disturbing features of campus life this past season has

been the recurrence of the idea that university examinations and degrees should be abolished. But let no one
suppose that is the opinion of all the students or even of
a majority. There is sound reasoning sustaining the
Seren of Canadian Universities.
The services rendered by the university in granting
degrees are enjoyed not only by the student but by his
- future employer as well, who can rely on the product of
universities of high standing. It would be most unfortunate if the criterion of social prestige was entirely
monetary. At present the acquisition of a degree greatly
facilitates achieving social position regardless of financial
standing. Even for the fortunate leisured class, the
academic degree is an additional mark of distinction and
implies the rightful place of learning in the community.
Tt would be unfortunate to break with colorful tradition in
_ this age which stands in so much need of a sense of style.
The student enjoys fellowship with the scholars of the
past; the cap, the gown, the scrolls are the visible symbols
of this union. The iconoclast, wishing to destroy these
* ties, might well destroy with them the finer part of our
heritage. It is utopian to suppose that youth does not need
a certain amount of coercion to ensure that proper
scholastic standards are maintained. Competitive examinations provide the necessary coercion in a most democratic form. The students, recognizing their own slothfulness commend this function of the university.

While the university is to be commended for its
emphasis on academic prestige, there seems to be little
conscious effort to institute degrees that will win the
respect of the non-academic world. Science graduates
invariably find that their training has not fitted them to
take technical position immediately. The period of apprenticeship which follows certainly does not enhance the
prestige of the university in eyes of the employer. The
student can best serve the interests of his community and
contribute to the prestige of his university by paying more
attention to the commercial applications of science and
less to the abstract subjects.

  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 

In the Arts faculties also, the university could do more
for the individual to advance him socially. Today, when
the doors of the university are open to all classes, the
responsibility of the educators has increased. No longer
are university students drawn exclusively from a statum
of society that already possesses style. If the attendance
at social functions is indicative of the efficiency with
which the university is carryng out its new duties, some
new radical departures will have to be made to meet the
situation. The University should set a minimum of social
accomplishments for its graduates which should compare
favourably with the standards set by the fraternities. This
might easily be achieved by a credit course in the social
graces,—with laboratory exercises. Dalhousie has maintained many fine traditions; however, even in this she is
not entirely blameless. Unlike Kings, where they encourage the wearing of academic costume, our students and
faculty are apparently ashamed of their academic status.
It is evident that a breach with the past has already been
attempted.

Skeptics might insinuate that these functions of the
university are incidental and not at all desirable. That is,
that industry is quite competent to screen its own personnel, and that our competitive industrial system allows
no one to hide behind a parchment. It might be asserted
by the unsympathetic, that the enhancement of one’s social
prestige and the maintenance of tradition is crass materialism, and that a far nobler idea of that truth is the goal
of the student, the primary function of the university to
assist him in this aim.

None of this healthy skepticism, however, questions the
necessity for examinations. All concerned agree that
degrees should be maintained if for no other reason than
to make the student body. It can hardly be maintained
that an examination in the spring will make the students
study all the year round. The University owes a duty
to the students not only in April but in the other six
months as well. The Christmas exams can hardly be
thought of as having any justification, as a failure does
not necessitate repetition. It appears that there are’ but
two alternatives open. A set of examinations each month
with all the validity of the final exams should be substituted for the present ineffective system. The only other

 

Corsages

   

,

NUR/ERIES: Limited:..

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

   

BIRKS

Headquarters for Quality
Insignia at Favorable
Prices.

   
   
   
   
   
 

If you have your Class Insignia,
why not think of attaching this
to such articles as Identification
Bracelets, Compacts, and many

  

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

THE FACULTY OF LAW,
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

C.M.
THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.
The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Public

— —
ee ges
P<

ai he ; ~ J a, 3 , " 7 ah * ; i
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
? ‘ + ~ ’ \

Radio, where it has been developed by commercial interests as it has been in the United States, is a good
example of this. Since the aim of advertisers is to reach
as large an audience as possible, commercial programmes,
with a few happy exceptions, are narrowly restricted to
those types which demand only the most rudimentary
intelligence. All things that require some intimacy of
understanding are therefore ruled out. Laughter, for
example, has become a conditioned response to given situations, with the complete elimination of any appeal to the
sensitiveness of the listener. In so far as the above judgment is justified it leads to the conclusion that intellectual
minorities must be catered to if a medum of communication is to be productive in the sense of enriching and
stimulating interest in literature and the arts and in social
affairs. The B.B.C. and the C.B.C. have been successful
in applying this principle, although even the C.B.C. must
sell much of its best time, and with it part of its “soul”,
to advertisers.

Referring back to the question of international conflict, we can say that rather than breaking down militant
nationalism the extension of lines of communication has
had the opposite effect. Nations have tended to cling
more tenaciously and more self-consciously to their nationalistic values, than before. This is due to those values
being threatened by the greater ease of communication in
conjunction with the greater degree of central political
control which it makes possible.

mechanism available to the university to insure that it
fulfills its function is to reinstate corporal punishment.

The Domestic Revolution .. (Continued from page one)

argued that an increase in the divorce rate represents a
rising rather than a falling standard of public morals.

Finally, few there will be to deny that year 1950
heralds the advent of higher standards of mating. Of
course, like friendship and religion, family relationships
are spiritual in nature and their qualty cannot be insured
by legislation. Family integrity, like morality can never
be coerced. ~ Nevertheless educaton and the law are reducing the hazards of family life as never before. Many
constructive aids have come to the assistance of the home.
Physical and mental qualifications for marriage, education
for parenthood, child psychology and mental hygiene—
all these represent great gains.

There is an old saying that the more things change
the more they remain the same. Only as institutions
change can they live. That the family is changing is a
sign of health and not disease. It must continue to come
into closer accord with the currents of life as it lived
today. It must adapt to machine production. It must
adapt to urban civilization. Above all it must adapt to
new philosophies. Unhappiness is one of the major maladies of modern life. There is no greater antidote than
the family system can provide. But it must be reconstructed into an institution supremely satisfying to the
needs of man.

We have seen that great as-have been the changes of
the last fifty years they have not all been liabilities.
Indeed there is reason to believe that the Domestic Revolution has some distance still to run and that it may bring
even greater gains in the future than in the past. Surely
it is not visionary to conlude that

“the best is yet to come”.

It may well be that, as Spencer believed, there is
inherent in evolution a strain toward better things and
that the laws of social change, like the laws of Nature
herself are, in the long run, wise, beneficient and kindly
in their operation and design.

 

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES

Degrees of: .
Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of Science

Diplomas in:

Education Hospital Pharmacy
Engineering Mining Geology
Engineering Physics Music

Food Technology Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE

for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees

in Many Departments
granting the degree of LL.B.

 

  
     
 

   
    
   
    

“Pardon me, Mr. Wes. Bang! May I ask to
what you ascribe your phenomenal success?”
“Sure! A lot of practice—and a little ‘Vaseline’
om Hair Tonic every day to ‘check’ Dry Scalp and
a keep my hair in position,”

i oS aN R TONIC

other useful gifts which may be
seen at Birks.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. 8.

  
    
   
  
   
 
 

Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600. 00

Collar applying c ad os from Hight Sch eae eae
es 0 e Maritime Provinces,

a Clirkinat ates 8, and awarded on the basis

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full informati
courses, residence facilities, and dates of fegaiateg

  
    
    
 
 
 
 
   

 
  
 
 
     
    

    
 

TRADE MARK

Ce
   
  
 
  
    
  
     
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
    
    
    
  
   
  

cid hi

ts P at the Philosopher is to describe the nature
y—a most ambitious undertaking. He takes the

re City asks begins with the Weeds “What is the ultirate e nature of—” and may end oe many different words

stance, causality, mind, spirit, eros. heatity. Saieality: etc.
I ‘During the past fifty years the physical sciences have pre_ sented philosophy with much new data, and these recent
r. discoveries have led to a re-examination of the first five
| _ problems mentioned above.

w Forty or fifty years ago a famous experiment was
y performed by two physicists named Michelson and Morley

iF velocity of light is independent of«that state of motion of
4 the person who measures it. The implication of this experiment are extremely impressive. They were worked
t out by Einstein whose predictions have stood the test of

i? experiment. The relevance of his work to philosophical
thinking cannot be over emphasized for he has introduced
_ wholly new conceptions of the nature of space and time.
Common sense, three dimenisonal, Euclidian space proves
to be inadequate to describe the observed properties of the
_ on a cosmic scae and the alternatives proposed

os.
i

i
| The title was provided by the Editors. I have never
personally used the contemptuous term “layman”, or its
- smug opposite, “scientist”. The greatly increased use of
_ these words during the half-century, however, furnishes
- aclue to changing attitudes. So great is the lustre of the
| word “science”, that it can create whole branches of learn> ing such as library science, domestic science, etc. Natural
_ _ science has become the religion of materialism with its
| _ priests (or scentists) and worshippers (or laymen). The
_ official priestly activity is known as research, which, whatever its nature and by whomever it may be practised, is
1 _ always to be considered by the layman as virtuous. 3

‘ Research has two main aims, of equal social value.
; oe are expected by laymen to seek means to ex_tend the span of human life, and their highest accolade is
- to be credited in the Reader’s Digest with the discovery of
a “wonder drug.” The duty of physicists is to develop
a 4 improved methods to shorten human life, and for them the
- \ pinnacle of eminence comes with arrest as a Russian spy.
as _ > All research is expected to be practical, and public support
‘is not in general granted to projects which are more than

ie

‘ t

I am asked to describe how far differently science is
now regarded by philosopsy than at the beginning of the
4 century.

. It was characteristic of the philosophy of the 19th century to reason as follows. (1) Science gives us a true picture of the world. (2) Science has with great success
assumed the world to be composed of material particles
“whose emotions are mechanically determined. Therefore
philosophy must look on the world similarly. Nor can
philosophy add to the picture any knowledge it has of its
own; for it has agreed to allow the title of knowledge to
_ nothing but what is yielded by the methods of science.
_ Philosophy may certainly regard the world of science as
appearance only, but it can offer no knowledge of another
world it may find reason to assume; it is limited to shewing how that appearance is imposed on us by the structure of human reason. Or it may be content with a
smaller task: it may merely undertake to systematize the
conclusions of the several sciences. The former Idealists,
’ the others Positivists. Either way, the great problems of
b- the earlier philosophy (Hellenic and Medieval)—God and
f human personality—were seen to exceed our knowledge.

Either one does not speak of these things, or what one
i says rests not on knowledge but some ‘feeling’ or
”

}

‘intuition’.

During this century science has itself very greatly
_ changed. Some principal assumptions of the old science—
matter, mechanism, determinism— themselves became
_ problems. Thus the particular form of science which the
: philosophy ofthe 19th century assumed became superseded. But its other assumption ,that science gives a true
i picture ofthe world, was also exploded. The new theories

  

  

_ which definitely established the fact that the measured .

cal implications of Physics . « « by Professor W. J. Archibald

by the theory of Relativity are undoubtedly more satisfactory. And what exciting alternatives! Time had a
beginning, and space is finite but unbounded, It is easy
seeking to test these predictions and the relevance of their
to appreciate the enthusiasm with which astronomers are
findings to philosophical speculation.

Another fruitful current of thought was started by
Planck, enriched by Einstein and Bohr, and brought to a
state of completion by Schrodinger, Heisenberg and Dirac.
In its completed form it is called Quantum Mechanics and
it had to be invented because of the inability of Newtonian mechanies to give answers in accord with experiment
when dealing with radiation and the behaviour of atoms.
The important implication of Quantum Mechanics for
philosophy may be stated as follows: Complete knowledge
of the behaviour of any physical system (even a simple
one) is unattainable, and this vagueness is not an accident
of the theory but is an inherent property of reality. From
now on we must be satisfied with probabilities and get
used to the idea that the mind never can “know all’. This
aspect of the theory raises the question of the meaning
of causality—an important problem of philosophy. The
Quantum Theory, with its well established uncertainty
principle, seems to have put the materialistic theorists on
the defensive. Even if the law of causality has to be
abandoned it is interesting to note that the Physicist will

Z ' The ea and the Scientist . . . by Professor F. R. Hayes

one step away from a practical result. When attempt to
solve practical problems fail, the product is known as pure
science. A properly instructed layman believes, that by
alchemy not vouchsafed to him, a sufficiently large mass
of pure science changes spontaneously into a noble nugget of applied science. For this reason, no direct action is
taken by society to prohibit the practice of pure science
which, like scholarship, is regarded as an old-fashioned
but harmless pursuit, doubtless of use in the past, but
supplanted in these modern times by specialized institutes
and teams of technicians.

The layman believes in the production of special kinds
of scientific practitioners, analogous to doctors and dentists. The half-century has seen engineering become well
established, although its graduates do not yet enjoy the
same immunity from competition as their medical
brethren. Agriculture is superficially flourishing, but
suffers from the failure of its good graduates to return
to the farm, perhaps because they have no legal protection at all from untrained competitors. Border line
experiments in fisheries, food technology and so forth, are

. The Philosopher and the Scientist . . . by Professor J. A. Doull

did not pretend to do that. They were allowed to be not
the only possible theories, but the most convenient: the
best adapted to our powers of knowledge and the most
effective in guiding to the experimental solution of difficulties.

The philosophic systems which had grown up with the
old science decayed, in part because of the scientific developments just described, but also from internal difficulties. But to understand some chief tendencies in contemporary philosophy one must have in mind a more
general change. The characteristic illusion of modern
culture—the belief in progress through science and
technique—largely lost its power in much of Western
Europe. In proportion as this belief decayed attention
returned to the great questons which in older times had a
place in philosophy. Certainly a revived interest could not
supply knowledge where none was to be had. But with the
decline of the recent systems, the reasons for which they
had departed from Platonism and Aristotelianism no
longer appeared satisfactory to everyone.

One may say very roughly that contemporary philosophy has followed three courses. (1) It has held to the
assumption that there is no knowledge but scientific, and
directed its efforts to shewing that all statements save
scientific propositions and the rules for combining them
are meaningless. Science is a very insufficient guide, but
the only guide we have. This is Logical Positivism. (2)
There is no knowledge, in the ordinary use of the word,
but scientific. But we have an acquaintance with the
structure of individual human existence. To this we cannot give expression in the concepts of traditional philoso
 

 

not Waeniieh its loss since the Quantum Mechanics enables
him to predict everything his instruments can measure.

The newer mechanics has an importance in still another connection. It enables the physicist to describe the
atom and its behaviour, but the description is wholly
mathematical. The mathematical interpretation is
straightforward and unambiguous but of such a nature
that it is next to impossible to form a mental picture of
that matter on a fine scale is like. Space is for the most
part empty and the entities the scientist has to deal with
are fields of force and probability amplitudes. Even mass
is only one aspect of a more fundamental reality which
has other aspects even more impressive—e.g. the atomic
bomb. This picture is still unfolding but already profound
changes have taken place in the philosopher’s conception
of matter or substance.

The three areas briefly outlined above are perhaps
the most important ones in which the physical sciences
have influenced philosophy. It is doubtful if philosophers
will ever get much help from the natural sciences in their
investigations of the ultimate nature of mind, spirit, virtue, beauty or morality except perhaps indirectly by emulating the method employed for discovering truth. The
successes of the method of science in ferreting out nature’s
secrets have been so spectacular that no serious investigator°of any problem can neglect to employ the method.

 

going on all the time. There is some difficulty in matching the title of a new course with an integrated body of
knowledge, while the proposed courses make a horizontal
cut across several of them. The layman believes that it is
better for a student to leave college with several stumps
of knowledge than with one long branch.

What of the next half-century? We may hope that
science will cease to be a vocational cult and become, as it
was in the days of Bacon and Goethe, a fit subject for
contemplation by any thoughtful man. We may hope
that, as scholars in the past were provided through hard
training in classics with the key to the world’s literature,
they may be provided in the future, through hard training
in observation and measurement, with the key to all
science. We may hope for some abatement of the pressure on universities to increase vocational training. Finally
we may hope for a clearer realization that research is the
same thing as scholarship, and that bad or trivial research
is as easy to recognize as bad scholarship, and smells no
sweeter.

 

phy. _Philosophy has been astray from its proper course
since the time of Plato, in that it sought for the real in
the universal, not in the individual existent. By such
philosophy (Existentialism) scientific knowledge is not
very favourably regarded. It is useful but superficial, and
forever being misapplied by superficial minds to fundamental questions. Existentialism still leans very much on
the 19th century assumption that metaphysical knowledge
is impossible. (3) It has returned to the ancient belief
that a rational knowledge of God and man and of the due
order of human life is in some measure possible. The
most influential representatives of this tendency are the
Thomists. From this standpoint philosophy does not
depend on science for its principles or for its method. But
it takes full account of scientific method and scientific
conclusions, where these are relevant. It values science,
but deplores the philosophie misuse of it (scientism).

It should be observed that either the last mentioned
direction is substantially correct or the civilization we
prate about so much was founded on erroneous assumptions, which are at last being fully exposed. The modern
world which believes, or believed, in science, education, and
democracy has been completely discredited—so far as it
pretends to be sufficient, and independent of its Christian
and Hellenie origins. In many countries its assumptions
still dominate popular thought, but only in backward
countries like Canada and Russia does it continue to possess the universities and educated opinion. The only question that still requires serious debate is whether Chris
tianity and He'lenism are to be thought no less
unreasonable.

 

  
 
 

 
  
 

A young man’s wisest investment,
one which gives protection at the
same time — a participating policy
with...

YOU'LL FIND YOUR LOCAL
REPRESENTATIVE

hehe

aan INS, Branch Manager
ink of Nove. Beste, B “pal

   

am os
¥ a

   

=

    
    

  

Je NOVA au

a,
Peta fat ee
a eS

HALIFAX

REID SWEET

PHOTO SUPPLIES
COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

9% Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

 

     
 
 
   
  

ort sleeve pullover

 

 
 

jas Wwe ey / 95-D(From Géslane to Geiger Counter)

 

ousie i in , 1900 .» » by Dr. A. E. Kerr

nd that this will be the last issue of the

a
ge
gtd
8
e.
J.
co
_.
=]
o
t
&
9
ba
cr
oF
=
°
5
aa
®
a

ve 1e a ‘ acy of the century, At the request of the Editor
I have Bed to write a few Seats conjuring up a

wets,

trl oie its help to transport myself back across the
ee ears and see Dalhousie through the eyes of the students

r who were here at that time.
| “The question of the year apparently was, “shall we or
l we not wear gowns?” According to an editorial in
January issue 1900, the wearing of gowns had been
o npulsory when Dalhousie stood on the Grand Parade.
t was abolished at the request of the students, but in the
i Rieieon of ’96-’97 a different view began to prevail on the
_ eampus and the students by a large majority asked that
the old practice be revived. The Senate, in response to
_ their petition decided that “undergraduates and general
Be students attending more than one class, are entitled to
| A citizen of the City is alleged

mere High School and not a university at all; ana some
of those who deplored the innovation felt that Dalhousie
along among all the major universities of Canada had

 

broken with the great tradition in academic dress. One
champion of the change retorted that it was Dalhousie’s
privilege to initiate new departures; and an unromantic
soul even suggested that the money that the students
would spend on gowns could be more wisely used in buying
stilts with which the young searchers after knowledge
might get into the college building dryshod!

The students at the turn of the century were genuinely
interested in serious discussions, and they apparently had
a well-developed taste for literary topics. Some of the
tithes were The Legal Aspects of the Merchant of Venice,
the History of Astronomy, Some Rambling Thoughts on
Metaphysics, the Concentration of Wealth, Some Legends
of Glooscap, the Beginnings of Literature, Rudyard
Kipling—a Biographical Sketch, the French Shore Question in Newfoundland, and William Shakespeare—Barrister at Law? Many of these articles would do credit to
the best journals today.

No one can read the college paper of the year 1900
without being impressed by the devotion that the students
had for their Alma Mater and their interest in everything

that pertained to her welfare.

added luster to Dalhousie’s name. An outsider might have
wondered what they saw in their little College to awaken
such pride. Not more than ten former pupils of the
Halifax Academy were included in the year’s graduating
class in Arts. The most outstanding social event of the
season would not bring together more than 200 students.
But there was no lack of faith in or affection for Dalhousie. The main editorial of the February issue for 1900
contained the observation that “Dalhousie is as dear to a
Dalhousie graduate as Oxford is to and Oxford graduate.”

A distinguished Dalhousian wrote from Cornell at that
time that one of his colleagues had recently said-to him
that Dalhousie could no longer be described as a “little
College”. It was indeed a little College in comparison
with the Dalhousie that we know today. But no one could
ask more for Dalhousie in the present or in the future
than that its life should always reflect the spirit that
prevailed on the campus in the day of small things, and
that is still in evidence in the life of the University at
its best.

 

aa
ie

te

Wh

r]

The first half ofthe Twentieth Century! Fifty years!
- 1900 - 1950. How short the time has been and yet what a
_ transformation it has seen in the affairs of men!

eA in 1900 Lord Acton could have seen a picture of the
world of 1950, the only reason he would not have thought
the version iuuredible was that as an historian he had
viewed so many other incredible half-centuries.

Five hundred years from now, one hundred years from
‘now, how will men view these fateful fifty years? What
judgment will they pass on their worth and their significance? It is a question that may well make us pause.

Marvellous scientific achievement, social upheaval, and
more destructive and more widespread than anything the
world has ever seen before! Will that be the record?
Shall men say that it was the end of an age or shall they
‘say that it was the beginning of a new era in the history
_ of the world?

>, hel we look at the picture simply from the point of view
of power tht most astonishing thing that has happened

é It is a fact which even yet few people realize that

> during the last fifty years a Domestic Revolution has been

taking place quite as significant in its way as the Indus
- trial Revolution in the previous century. One by one the

traditional functions which in earlier days were the core

of familial life have disappeared from the home. The

~ mechanics of housekeeping have undergone a complete

change. In many cases the modern home has become a

machine shop with mechanicalized apparatus for cooking,

washing and ironing. In others, these industrial processes

have been handed over to the bake- shop, the lunch
eounter and the commercial laundry. Its educational

; - functions have been largely transferred to the nursery,

~ the kindergarten and the school, and its religious func
- tions to the Church and the Sunday School. Diversion and

recreation are no longer confined within the family circle.

| Even the rearing of children in child-caring agencies has

f oe become a large scale enterprise. Thus the family has shed
a

 

many of its earlier responsibilities. It is no longer the
all-in-all it used to be. There are those who renounce the
1 family and all its works although perhaps few would go
E. so far as the lady who said in making her declaration of
ia independence: “I was born in a hospital ward, reared in
a boarding school, courted in an automobile, and married
in a church. I get my meals at a cafeteria, spend my
mornings at golf and my afternoons at bridge. When I
am sick I go to the hospital. When I die I shall be buried
from an undertaker’s parlor. All I need is a garage and
a bedroom”. It must be acknowledged that with the
‘ advent of furnished rooms, prepared meals, steam laun- dries and the tailor-shop, the disadvantages of non-family
living have largely disappeared.
Tt i is an axiom of Sociology that the life of an institu
 

There should be no need to demonstrate at great
 Jength the fact that there has been a pronounced leftward
trend throughout the world during the past fifty years.
It is most readily seen in the fortunes of those parties
and movements to which the label “Left” is attached. The
Bolshevik revolution of 1917, the establishment of communist regimes in the satellite countries of eastern Eur
ana sinaa the elase of the second World War, the victory

 

fh The Leftward Trend . . . by Professor J. H. Aitchison

fe es ‘The isis of Power... by'Dr.” G. E. Wilson

q - ; pe
aq

has been the eclipse of Western Europe. In 1900 there
was no doubt as to where was the power center of the
world. At the time of the death of Queen Victoria there
seemed to be no reason to think that the long ascendency
of Europe was coming to an end. In culture and in civilization, in wealth and in power, she led the world. London
and Paris, Berlin and Vienna, Rome and St. Petersburg
were all in their way imperial cities.

Japan was still a curious and interesting upstart, which
had recently astonished the world by her victory over
China, but has afterwards been firmly put in her place

when she presumed too much, and sought to impose too

onerous terms on her defeated rival. No European power
had yet deigned to enter into a partnership with the Land
of the Rising Sun.

Across the Atlantic was that strange phenomenon the
United States of America. It was a land that Europe
could not ignore although the old world still liked to take
a condescending attitude to a country of flamboyant de
os Domestic Riveletion . « « by Dr. S. H. Prince

tion remains secure only so long as it has vital and
irreplaceable functions to perform. Shorn of many of its
values does the family still retain any significant services
essential to the survival of the species? The answer
clearly is in the affirmative. One such service is the
genetic function. Non-family species can survive only at
a terrific toll of life. Vital statistics show that the deathrate of non-family children is greater than that of children
born in thé normal home. It in the struggle for existence
as Darwin has shown, the preservation of the species is
the first law of Nature it may be expected that the human
population will continue in the main to be brought into
the world through the family cradle.

A second law of Nature, as Kropotkin has pointed out,
is cooperation and mutual aid. There can be little question that these qualities are pre-eminently home-made
products. The family system is the organization best
adapted to the incubation of these virtues. Indeed apart
from the primary group it is doubtful if they would be
produced at all.

Thus because of its basie place in social evolution it
would seem highly probable that the family will live as
long as society endures. It may change its form as it has
changed its form time and again in days gone by. The social form which benefits one environment may not always
suit another. The durability of the family may change.
It may cease to be a life-long entity, as in many cases it
has already ceased to be. The size of the family may
change. We have seen it large in the earlier centuries,
smaller in the Middle Ages, large again in the 19th Century and again today on the decline. Marital practices
may change. Birth control and contraception (a renaisance

office and power. In Canada, the C.C.F. forms the government in one province and the official opposition in
three others. In democracies everywhere trade unions
possess a power and influence which would have horrified
the Right at the beginning of the century and which horrifies some elements of the Right even today. Whatever
the second half of the century holds, the fascist periods of
Italy and Germany, the existence of fascist Tegimes in a

a + ee Se

mocracy where there was so little culture and so much
vulgarity, and money was the measure of all things, Even

here however there was a portentious sign of change. For.

years Americans had taken a holier-than-thou attitude
towards the wickedness of the imperialistic wars in which
European ‘powers engaged. In 1898 the United States had

defeated Spain and showed that she too might be prepar-_

ing to enter the game.

In 1950 all is changed. From the point of view of
power Western Europe is almost a vacuum, drained of
wealth, shattered in might, her whole social system rocking, Western Europe is only a ghost of the wealthy and
powerful and arrogant society that stepped so confidently
and so proudly into the new century some fifty years ago.

There are only two great power centers left in the
world—Washington and Moscow. Can they compose their
differences or is another war necessary to determine
where is to be the new Rome? That is the great question
in power politics as we enter the second half of the
Twentieth Century.

 

of infanticide) may become accepted elements in the folkways. Artifiicial insemination may bring back the maternal
family of pre-literate times. But the family will endure.It is like the flag that braved a thousand years the battle
and the breeze.

It must be said in all justice that in the last fifty
years many new and true values have impinged upon the
family to its everlasting good. Who would wish to return
to the family folkways of half a century ago! Certainly
one advance has been the extension of democracy to the
home. Victorian domesticity, as exhibited in the Barrets
of Wampole Street, is rightly repellant to us today.

One notes, too, the higher standard of living which
the family of today enjoys over that of fifty years ago.
Even if as a result of it, a smaller number of children
come to birth a larger number come to maturity. Fifty
years ago one baby in three died before it was a year
old; today, only one in ten. We are filling two cradles
for one coffin, effecting the same population quota with
the saving of untold suffering and pain. Interest in the
education and welfare of children has increased in inverse
proportion to their decline as an economic unit.

Nor is it retrogression which has brought about a
single standard of sexual ethics with the reduction of
infant mortality the surplus woman problem began to
disappear. No movement has had a greater influence upon
the family than the so-called Woman’s Movement of the
last fifty years. Economie independence and multiplied
opportunities of self-support have brought an end to sex
slavery, and the infidelities which once had to be acquiesced in or condoned. Inasmuch as two-thirds of divorces
are granted on the petition of the wife it may even be

(Continued on Page Two)

 

the Left is a determination to use the power of the state
to lessen the insecurities and the inequalities in real income which it conceives to be the inescapable consequences
of uncontrolled capitalism. The different degrees of Leftism are best distinguished by the distance along that road
it is considered desirable to go and by the price at which
the journey is considered to be worthwhle, The New Deal
and the Fair Deal policies of the Democratic Party in the
Timitad Gtatac wn cama dictanee alone the road and hence

They called attention to
new additions made to the Museum, new books received
by the Library, and new achievements of graduates that

*

 

       

  
