       

   

  
 
    
         
 
      
 
          
       
         
           
       
       
       
     
       
           
          

ee
mi

A
7 + nee ao parr espe * hk
f ye Fe 4 bes

‘Pl

sibel

fi
—" = Z
A dm ae:
b or, Sy Pa,
* 7 \
a gE
i *
\ t z
i 5 .
i
fi

| DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

‘Vol. LXXXII se HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1950 ; No. 32 en

COUNCIL, CALDWELL EXPLAIN STAND —
ON YEARBOOK COMMITTEES REPORT —

& * * % * Bo * * *

Student Forum Turns Down Motion From
Floor Establishing New Committee to
To Investigate Council Pharos Committee

FS a eae At a student forum which brought forth the largest attendance in years, the issue of the 1948-’49 Pharos was final
Munroe Day Set ‘ly reduced to history, on official levels at least. Responsibil
ity for the delay in its publication was placed fully on the

    

 

   

 

 

USE

 

 

 

shoulders of the ex-Editor, Ron Caldwell.

SS For March 14th | ——___—___________—___——_® The meeting opened with Mr.
M D Dalh : P Caldwell questioning the accuracy
lunroe Day, Dalhousie’s annua A d S of some of the statements contain
student holiday, will be celebrated | rts an cience ed in President Moreira’s report,

this year Tuesday, March 14. The Ni C did 3 which had been approved and ac
Monroe Day Committee, under ame an t dq es cepted by the Council. He pointed

chairman Gerry Barrett, is at

present finalizing plans for the big A meeting of the Arts and Sciday. ence Society was held last Tuesday |

| Se & é In keeping with tradition, the|™ Room Three of the Arts Build. ing for the purpose of nominating

highlights of the day’s program t
will be the Campus Queen Contest candidates for next year’s Council
the quartette Contest, the Munroe and for Campus Queen. After the

minutes of the previous meeting |

Day show, and as a finale, a mon- j : ;
were read a brief financial report

ster dance in the gym. ae
of the Society was given.

out that he had not received one of
the telegrams quoted in the appendix to the report, and that the
amount of advertising copy purported to be in the printer’s hands
by the end of August was overstated.

He also said that, at the same
time, when it appeared that pages
; 1-93 of the issue were missing,

Sherman Zwicker received the pages 1-64 had in fact been in the
nomination for President of the printer’s hands for a month, but
Students Council; Andy MacKay|/had been misplaced and forgotten
was named as his running mate for] in the owner’s absence.
Vice-President. The sum of $35 Mr. Caldwell admitted that he
was voted for campaign funds. had misrepresented the state of the

The following nominations were| book continually from the time of .also made: For Senior Boy—Noel| Mr. Moreira’s first contact with
Goodridge, Peter Doig; For Senior|him, up to and including the time
Girl Sally Newman, Gretchen|of the students forum held at the
Frazer; For Junior Boy—Ian Mac-| end of the first term. But, he said,

 

The Quartette Contest, an. increasingly more popular and successful event, is open to contestants from all fraternities, campus
societies, and residences. Phi Rho
Fraternity, last year’s winner, will
again be strongly represented, but
from all reports the competition is
keener than ever. All erstwhile
quartettes are urged to contact
Andy MacKay before March 6.

  

In Charge of 1949-50 Pharos—Work on the new year book is progressing well, under the direction of Miss Carol Wood, above. Carol
is a fourth year Arts student, and has played a prominent part in
campus activities of all sorts. She is a member of the Students’
Council; was President of the Pi Beta Phi Sorority during the past

 

 

 

smtt
SS

 

year, and even finds time to play on the girls’ hockey team. The Campus Queen Contest will) Culloch, Tupper Porter; For Jun-|these misrepresentations had been
again be the outstanding feature ior Girl—Jerry Grant, Foo Grant;|made for personal reasons, which
of the day. All campus societies|oy Sophomore Representative —|the Council had not taken into

“Session of Mock Parliament Ends Tce. oe on Cae a Robin MacNeil, Red Findlay. account in its condemnation of his

Sheila MacLaren was nominated/actions. The condemnation was
must be in the hands of the com-|ag Arts and Science Candidate for

| i h ; h G j made in a recommendation advanc
With Overt row 0 t e overnmeni mittee, c/o Ross Kenway, by|Campus Queen. Ed Belliveau was| ed by a Council Committee, apMarch 6. named her sponsor. pointed to investigate the issue’s
lateness, and apportion blame for
it. The report placed full responsibility with Mr. Caldwell, and was
accepted at the last meeting of the
Council.

| The Liberal Government of the Dalhousie Mock Parliament was voted out of office by a large majority in a Vote of

Want of Confidence by the combined opposition.
+ Fivet Gn the ascends was a mat-o—@§  —__ —___—_—
ter of national importance and) ; 4 .
Resignation of Varsity

great urgency, introduced by the
Maritime Rights Party Ian Robert- ro Late

Editorial Staff Accepted
TORONTO — (CUP) — The edi
son, slightly jarred by the fact that
torial board of the Varsity, Toron
the speech he was about to make
* had just been handed to him, made

to undergraduate paper, resigned
as a result of a dispute with the

a most convoncing appeal to the
House that Cape Breton should be
Student Administrative Council.
Stan Fillimore, editor-in-chief of

made into a national shrine im
mediately, for reasons beyond this
the sixteen member board said the
resignation was caused by a coun
. writer’s comprehension.
+ The PC Bill “An Act to Amend
the Old Age Pensions Act” was
read and debated on. Lloyd Strang-|cil order giving final say in adverward explained explained why the|tising to E. A. MacDonald, a fulltime official apointed by the University Board of Governors. He is A scene from the “Pirates.of Penzance” which was presented last ne its recommendation, and was
secretary-treasurer of the Student) night to an appreciative Student audience, The operetta will be shown told that they had spent half an

bill should be passed. L. Smith in
~reply, said that at 65 a man is still
Council and advertising manager] jo the public tonight and tomorrow night. rt a een be whee spent a
of the paper. most of the year’s Council meet
too young to need assistance
The dispute arose when Fillmore ings. This committee was appoint
George Illsley, Lloyd Caldwell and
ttm fn :
removed two ads and a part of a|@lee Club Presentation of ‘Pirates ~~ (Oontinned gn’ page Four)

Joe MacIntyre also spoke against
third from the paper on Feb. 6,

the bill, while the CCF Party supclose to the deadline. The adver- Of Penzance’ Pleases Students

ported it. The Hon. member from
tising manager, who should have

Downie said the bill should not be
-passed as it would undoubtedly
break the hearts of his old fishersaid Fillmore. Presentation of a Gilbert and Sul-| particularly showed a great im- (1) Date—March 7, 1950
“The ads were removed to make|livan operetta in many years “The|chorus was superior to the girls,
room for an article on ~- the! Pirates Of Penzance” made an im-| but both gave an outstanding per- (2) List of eligible voters will

    
  
  
 
   
    
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
    
   
       

Mr. Milne, a member of that
Council Committee, then pointed
out that Mr. Caldwell had refused
help to hurry the completion of the
book, and, with that in mind, his
reasons for misrepresentation made
no difference.

Mr. Caldwell considered that his
case should nevertheless have been
given more consideration, and that
the Council Committee was composed of people who would not do
so. He asked the Committee how
much time had been spent in draft
 

re

‘men constituents. Don Curren
brought out the point that it was
essential to have a better system

 

f

: , of pensions in Canada Ches. Mac-|H-Bomb,” said Fillmore. The fin-| mediate hit with the student audi- | formance. appear in the Engineering

(Continued on page three) ancial loss was $1.10, and the ads|ence last night. Enthusiastically| Gordon Coll, a newcomer to the Common Room and eMn’s
: ’ were carried in the next issue. applauding the performers they in-| Glee Club was excellent in his role Residence (notice board)

. The Red Cross will have a blood} Fillmore said that he regarded| sisted on encore after encore with|as the Pirate King, his fine voice Societies to send lists of

donor clinic on the campus next|the act as an indication of lack of|an ardour not been seen at Dal in| and dramatic ability being enthusi- nominees to R. P. Hill, 115

  
      
 
 

   
     
  

        

Monday and Tuesday. All those| confidence in his staff. along time. Directed by Professor | astically received by the audience. Beech St., Halifax, on or
| \. Who have volunteered are asked to} ‘The regulation, in effect takes|Harold Hamer, the entire cast had| Doane Parker, also new in Glee before Wednesday, March
“ren er their appointments, and|control of the paper out of the|a quality that far surpassed that|Club productions gave one of the
Brats) < {in - | (Continued on page Four) of previous years and the chorus| _ (Continued on page Four)

_

   

 

F ‘i

hat Ae,
*

ee ok a Re at eater > ns 0 Se eee ei eR NOR See i ee en ek a ee res |
 
  
    
   
   

 
 
 
 
 

 

a
le,

yy , ‘ ic
ites .
ie aes eee
es Ske 
     

0 4 ra | fi * vs
we [ : i;
Uae ei |

 

hd ;
bee ge ey
oF
‘ 1 "

HOUSIE GAZETTE

“AMERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER

  
 

:

Phone 3-7098
Member Canadian University Press

Publisked twice a week by the

Students’ Council of Dalhousie

University. S,°: ions expressed are not necessarily those of the
Students’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
-Dalhousie Gazette, Halifax, N. S.

Moier-in-Chiet. ....-...... Die aah beh a, Bruce Lockwood
NMI ETN se eres Rigie dn we eke a 0 yi eso nibs Oraiele o's Maurice Foisy
SPIPRNORE PARMAR OT don wa csi hy peut cayc eeu sak eves nccces Alfred Harris
Office Manager ..........+: PENN eh Sia wa else eidciis Murray Higgins

EDITORIAL STAFF

 

OS ETE hE ae ee + Valerie men
MOREMEOD MMLORG  wivicg cclecic wos ctssew se neces ers
EE PRETO eel gs hee wels sos f4dleges ds : a pcg
RAMEE ND DON re cee NOS GIL ts cold) eicta eceta'e ed hte Ge 0 Jim MacDonald
IRR Te cre oon eS 0 Were b's 46 0 Sdip se ad « Ralph Medjuck
I De a ge iy ls od ay o's dbs Barbara McGeoch
RBPOTLETS ales ss Bob McInnes, Noel Goodridge, Betty Livingstone
Moyra Seegar
SEINE UD Crib i hee oy se Dan Soberman
SEER ree ee Lee late gece Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
I ee oe en Odi b a a eelre« Lucy Calp
Vol, LXXXII FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1950 No. 32

 

BLAME-PLACING

In a letter reprinted below, the Council of Students
makes known its attitude concerning the responsibility
for the lateness of the 1948-’49 Pharos.

The first paragraph of the resolution places the

blame wholly on the Editor.

statement that the Council

The second ends with the
“extended its confidence to

him to an extent which appeared at the time to be reasonable’. The two are hardly compatible. In the latter
statement, the Council infers that it, too, took steps
which were not best. With that in mind, the Council

should not, in all conscience,

affair.

Hindsight is, of course,

overlook its liability in the

a wonderful faculty which

can be used to prove the most unlikely assertions.
But there is in law a doctrine known as contributory negligence, which allows courts to split the respon
sibility for an incident.

that they accept the blame

We do not wish to prove the
‘ Council entirely responsible .

. We wish merely to ask
for as much of the year

book’s lateness as their “apparent” reason caused.

 

Letters To

February 21st, 1950 |
fhe Editon-in-Chief,
Dalhousie Gazette,

At a meeting held last night the
Council approved the report of the
Yearbook Enquiry Committee. The
report is as follows:—

“ Having reviewed the events
connected with the 1948-49 edition of the Yearbook while under
the jurisdiction of this Council,
the Committee has concluded
that the blame for the lateness
of the book rests on the shoulders of the Editor.

“The Committee has further
concluded that this Council, although it appeared to allow the
Editor to continue too long in his
position, extended its confidence
to him to an extent which appeared at the time to be reasonable. 
“The Committee recommends
that no points be awarded Mr.
Caldwell for his editorship of the
1948-49 Pharos.”

On motion the
adopted.

The Council at that meeting instructed me to inform you of its
adoption of the report, and of the
report’s contents.

ARTHUR MOREIRA,
. President.

report was

 

 

 

The Editor

January 25th, 1950
Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir,

During this session two orchestra leaders in the city have offered
their services free of charge to the
student body of Dalhousie. This
offer was made possible under the
provisions of the Transcription
Fund of the American Federation
of Musicians, but we should be no
less grateful to these gentlemen
for making their offers to Dalhousie, when they could have gone
to any worthy organization in
Halifax.

They were Mr. Fred Covey and
Mr. Les Single. Mr. Covey’s orchestra played for us at the dance
in aid of the I.S.S. Mr. Single’s
offer expires at the end of January, and the Council. was unfortunately unable to find a suitable
date on which to make use of it.

I would like to say, on behalf of
the Council, that we appreciated
the offers very much and we would
like to inform the student body of
their kindness.

Yours truly,
ARTHUR MOREIRA,
President,
the Council of Students

 

Looking Backwards

Mid-Century Highlights

CUP—Toronto

_ The Sex Habits of the Average Canadian University Student

or
Is It True What They Say About Kinsey?

The Varsity has often carried out
exhaustive research projects on
topics of student interest. The most
ambitious of these schemes was
launched in 1927 under the personal
guidance of Editor-in-chief Lindsey. The esteeméd editor was in his
graduating year and being an alert
newspaper type had noticed that
many of his fellow scholars were
showing a decided interest in
females of the opposite sex.

not misunderstand, Lindsey
was not naive; he had been told
about the birds and bees early in
life and at the time was going
steady with a humming bird. Believing that there were others on
the campus, perhaps encloistered in
some forgotten lab or gathering
dust in a faculty library, who
shared his interest in current

events he organized the memorial
project. Staff reporters armed
with questionnaires assailed the
student body. A mass of data was
obtained, edited, statistically analyzed and published in a series of
informative articles.

The questionnaire was compiled
by the editorial board with the
purpose in mind to answer the pertinent questions, where, when, why
and with whom? Examples of
some of the type questions included were: ;

Do you believe in interdigitation
before marriage ?

Have you ever seen a century
plant in bloom?

Do you approve of boys and girls
matriculating in the same room?

Are you in favour of two-handed
canasta?

ON ne ee ee eee Pee AEE STE EL ee

 

Tuesday, Feb. 21, 1950.—Up betimes and donned my new coat
with padded sleeves and silver buttons depicting His Majesty in profile. I also put about my waist
my new belt with the silver buckle
and donned my blue trousers. - I
did admire myself in the mirror
and decide that I did still cut a
very fine and dignified figure.

After breckfast, out and walked
about the town to display my new
apparel to all and sundry. Did
meet one of the latter in the person of Pete Dog, who is a member
of the Scholars Parliament. He
did tell me in great confidence that
the nominations for members of
Parliament and for Prime Minister
are to be held soon and that the
Asses and Seances Society is going
to nominate one of their number to
contest the position of Prime Minister. I did tell Dog that he should
receive this nomination, for he was
extremely digilent in preserving
the dignity of Parliament and foiling those who attempted to make
light of it. He did scoff at the
idea of running for Prime Minister but did say wistfully that he
would like to sit again in his old
seat in (Parliament. I did assure
him he would be returned with a
smacking majority, whereupon he
did smile and mutter something
about the Spectator.

Next I did meet Miss Give, who
did tell me of a controversy between two of the teams of the
athletes of the college on the hill.
It seems that the Girls’ team is
to go upon a trip to another university in one conveyance while
the Men’s team of the new game
of Hockie is to go in another. One
of the Basketballsquads will have
to travel in the same conveyance
as the hockie team and the other
Basketballsquad will be privileged
to travel with the ladies team.
There is great dispute between the
two to determine which is to travel
with which, for the members of the
Hockie team rarely win and are
hence very often surly after a
contest and make poor traveling
companions.

Wednesday, Feb. 22, 1950.—To
the college on the Hill, where I
did meet Handy McEyewash who
did tell me that Asses and Seances
Society had chosen Sherwoman S.
Wicker as candidate for Prime
Minister, and himself as their candidate for Assistant Prime Minister. I did congratulate my friend
and ask about Dog. He told me
that Dog had also been nominated
as member and would run against
Badcliff of the Spectator- staff. He
did also tell me of other nominations and I found to my surprise
that for a change the Asses and
Seances Society had chosen capable
men to run for them and said it
would be hard for the scholars to
decide which to choose.

 

|

Which do you enjoy more, danc- |
ing or intermissioning ?

Do you reckon your descent patrilinealy ?

Who was that lady I saw you
with last night?

Does absinthe make your heart
grow fonder?

What is your definition of a
sport? ‘

Have you any children to speak

That was no lady, that was my
roommate.

Have you ever been to Montreal ?

Are you inspired by a celestial
body.

Have you ever been a-ghast at a |
nudist colony ? |

Do pecans make you giddy? |

Do you believe marriages are |
made in heaven? |

Would you consider the offspring
of an oak and a maple a son of a
birch ?

Do virgin
urgin?

From the material appearing in
that series two earth shaking conclusions were reached: Firstly, college girls prefer bulldozers two to
one, and secondly, when in trouble,
head for the roundhouse — they
can’t corner you there.

 

 

 

sturgeon need no

 

=

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   

  
 
   
     
    

“The Students” All Dalhousians Can
STORE” Eat Cheaply
invites ee - a“ mas AT
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets Evangeline
azines
Steyn ana ; ia unexcelled Restaurant

    
 

Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 
 

280 Quinpool Rd.
Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
: 8 a.m, - 12 Midnight

      
     

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Corsages

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

9'4 Prince St. - - Dial 3-8539

Shop at EATON’S

for all Your Needs!

MAKE EATON’S your shopping headquarters!. .
... Apparel for all occasions, sporting equipment and other items in a wide variety.

   

NURJERIES Limited -.
426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

 

Remember:
IT PAYS
TO SHOP
AT EATON’S

® Largest ® Goods ® Best AllAssortments Satisfactory *Round Values
or Money
Refunded

“T. EATON C°

MARITIM LIMITED

HALIFAX

CANADA

 

“Fresh, novel, unique, original, ete.”

From a Thesaurus

There are a lot of enthusiastic words to describe
these new Arrow shirt-tie combinations.

But the only real way to appreciate them is to.
see them at your Arrow dealer’s. 7 pastel shades,

popular Arrow collar styles, SANFORIZED
labelled.

Nicely priced, too, these Early Canadian Ensembles by Arrow—shirts from $3.95, ties $1.50!

Look for the trade marks ARROW and SANFORIZED

Early Canadian Ensembles
Matching shirts and ties by ARROW

Cluett, Peabody & Co, of Canada, Limited.

 

 
wee all ete when Rstion fobnd

(, oe brought her to Montreal.
That's where A.J. met her. She

hair was black like the night and
- wee her eyes as green as leaves just
washed by rain. That was 1946.
IT was with AJ. in Montreal when

| iy he met her.

I remember those
singularly careless days: I watch
ed the love affair flower and
} - bloom; I saw the shadows fall over
_ it slowly but irrevocably; I came
_ with them back to Halifax and was
rs through it all with them, right up

to the horrible revelation of her

_ ‘past and the pathetic conclusion

that followed.
You see, she was married to

y *\ _ Ekstien and there was a child. But

-we did not know this then. I only
knew A.J. and Catanna were in
_leve and that things had to run

: _ their natural course. The marriage

a i _ explained why she was continually
BY, going back and forth to Montreal.

\ ae
ou

aT,

Pee,
/

Of course Ekstien adored her, he

must have, for he knew of A.J. and

She
“T ean’t stand

yet kept financing her trips,
said to me once:

ee Sam. He’s too weak in his
love.

I admire strength’. But
_ these domestic troubles were only

pe ie _ incidental.
NY oe :

A

oy AN her ‘

ei; : eae the situation.

AJ. soon saw the impossibility
Love became

Pes pity and he knew her trouble was
a deep, that in her soul there was the

Bs remember well the night she told
us all.

Tt was one September evenin
: 7 car over a steep embankment and

It was 1945—in Europe—in

B _aprison camp. She was a Spanish

prisoner when the Army detail
came into the camp. Ekstien notVtped her at once for she was-~well

dressed and well fed, a marked dif
ference from the other prisoners.
It was a‘simple explanation: a

om Joke Pot

_ And what did the Professor say

‘Nothing.
Naturally, but just how did he

, express it this time.

a pretty co-ed.

A college senior was rushing a
“Don’t you get it?

- “DANCING

_ | Be sure the famous Birks
| Blue Box encloses your

ao)

a
ae

* .
nae am gre . = ;
See Saat
Ye rs [ ler ?
i ee ene, ee
tt ee alge 7S

Per.

- | choice.

5p Wenry Birks &
Sons Limited

_ Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. s.

Compliments of
JOE and TOM

‘beautiful girl who had known lux-|

ury and who couldn’t face the degradation if there was a way out.
There. was.
to her captors and lived out her
days in bondage but in security.

So that was the girl Ekstien
brought home and adored, and, perhaps, justly pitied. The girl who.
desecrated her beauty and of
whom, _it was said, had once
stabbed an overly amorous paramour when fulfilling her unpious
duties. And she was haunted by
many an evil memory: good and
evil warred within her and she
fought bravely for the higher life
—but she had been too deeply
mired in the mud. Yet we cannot
judge her. We can only sympathize. I recall her tears, and
A.J.’s stony silence: “Am I to
blame?” she eried. “I didn’t ask
for war. I didn’t ask for the calousness of war.”

Finally A.J. forced her to go
back to Ekstien. It was the only
answer. She wept and said she
didn’t know how to take serenity
or the good things of life. It was
pathetic; but she went.

But then one day in November a
life that had known only violence
ended in violence. As Ekstien said
to us: “She had no heart. I guess
she was just mixed up inside.”

About the violence. She left
Ekstien for a drive one afternoon.
She kissed him goodbye and he
thought it meant she was going to
try to love him. But her drive was
a one way affair. She rolled the

it came to rest as a ball of twisted
steel. They found her in, the
wreck, glass in her lungs, looking
with sightless askance at the uncomprehending sky. She wore a
defiant and supercilious smile on
her bleeding lips and they say she
was like a lovely rose wilting its
life away.

I want you to marry me. I want
you to be the mother of my chil
dren.”

The co-ed was flattered but suspiciously, she demanded: “How
many children have you got?”

He: Is my face dirty, or is it
my imagination?

She: -Your face is clean, but I
don’t know about your imagination.

Feb, 22nd — 28th

Evenings 8 p.m.
Saturday Matinee 2 p.m.

Ice CYCLES

Get Your Tickets
Now at Zellers

1.00, 1.50, 2.00, 2.50

~~

re ee

NURSING

As a Career

Dalhousie University provides

So she sold her body

“s Mock Parliament. ..

Hope springs Neaetiny or so the
poet said. Anyway, undismayed by
their fall from first place in InterFac sports a few weeks back, the
Engineers are now once more at
the top of the heap and holding
onto a slim lead over Law and
Arts and Science. The $64 question is, of course, how long will
our precious margin last, and that
is anyone’s guess.

The basketball squad added its
quota of points last week by downing Commerce 36-24 in a scrappy
but hard fought game. Don Smith
produced his usual number of excellent plays; at the close of the
contest with about one nth of a
second left. Bob Knight swished
the ball through the hoop with a
set-shot from away out that would
have had Ozark Ike biting his
nails!

And the hockey squad? Manager
Bud Kingsbury and his _ not-somerry men would perhaps appreciate a discreet silence at this point,
but suffice it to remind the pessimists that the pucksters have not
lost all their games this season.
How many they have won, though,
is a question better left unanswered!

(Late flash by bush telegraph)
Hey, Snapper, want a marshmallow ?

Politics at the
ISS Seminar

When a large number of students from various countries gather
together, a very natural subject of
discussion is politics and political
philosophy. The second annual ISS
Seminar in Holland last summer
was no exception. The diversity of
political backgrounds made these
discussions all the more interesting.

The Canadian group was the
most conservative group at the
seminar and the only major group
to stand for private enterprise. Although there was a sprinkling of
“radical” CCF supporters, the majority of the Canadians tended to
the Liberal or the Conservative
points of view. The British group
included both Tories and Socialists. On the whole, students from
Continental countries were socialists; the Seandinavian group was
the most solidly socialist block.
The Germans and Italians, with
their background of militant nationalism, were concerned mainly
with understanding the new conception of a democratic framework
within which either the socialist or
the free enterprise system could
work.

The question of
naturally occupied an important
position in the discussions. Since
there were no communists present
to defend the communist doctrine,
the discussions centered around
how to prevent the spread of communism. Dean de Konick of Laval
refuted the communist philosophy,
and it was generally accepted at
the seminar that communism was
not a practicable system for the
West. Perhaps one of the most
controversial proposals for stopping the westward expansion of
communism was European Union.
Although this proposal was favourably received by all the Continental students, albeit with some
slight misgivingsy the British students, Tories as well as Socialists,
objected strenuously to the proposal as being very disadvantageous to Britain; it might be noted
that the Tories objected notwithstanding the fact that their leader,
Mr. Churchill, is at present the
most prominent backer of European Union. Due to the fact that

eommunism

(Continued from page one)

Donald and Art Moreira supported
the bill on behalf of the MRP.
The bill was passed.

Next debated was the CCF Bill
for equalizing opportunity for edueation at the university level. Ned
Cyr pointed out that many brilliant
students have in the past, and will
in the future, miss university education through lack of funds, unless the Gov’t provides financial
help. In reply, Ron Caldwell stated
that the cost of such a plan would
be too great to be met by the
Government. Mr. O’Hara concurred with Caldwell’s statement.
Moyra Seegar of the PC Party replied that DVA had done a good
job in the past and that it was
time to do the same for others
with intelligence—but no money.
Charlie MacIntosh for the MRP
stated their unanimous approval of
the Bill, which was then passed—
not without opposition.

The House quieted as Weldon
Mathews, leader of the PC Party
rose and made a motion that a vote
of non-confidence in the government be given. The Opposition
looked very smug—they knew they
had a majority in the House. The
Government expecting as much,
didn’t look very interested. Windy
O’Neil and Art Moreira discoursed
on the vices of the Government
very lengthily. However, the House
was far more interested in what
Mr. Moreira was dangling in the
air while speaking. Apparently it
was an old heirloom of great value
to him—a- bottle opener and a
feather on a chain. Bob Grant also
spoke on *the motion and then a
vote was taken. The Government
was defeated by a vote of 50 to 32.

In conclusion Doug Robertson
spoke a few very well chosen
words in saying that this had been
the best attended and most. enthusiastic Mock Parliament in
many years. He went on to thank
Mr. Fraser for having given so
much of his time and ability in
being with us. And for once the
Liberals and the PC’s were in complete accord, as W. Mathews reiterated the sentiments of Mr.
Robertson. Rod Chisholm, leader
of the CCF party thanked Mr.
Batt, clerk of the House for the

(Battlegr ied ie Me ’

) 's
Minds Outside College

MONTREAL — (CUP) — “Too
many universities are nothing but
an uneasy no-man’s-land between
the oposing citadels of two rival
ideologies,’ Dr. C. Frederick
Frazer said yesterday in an address at ‘McGill University. “And
in a world divided ... the defence
of Western democracy depends on
other than material armaments,”
continued the Director of the Institute of Public Affairs at Dalhousie, and Editor of the Canadian
Quarterly, “Public Affairs”.

“Canada must battle for men’s
minds. Cultural relations must be
established between the countries
and education must be more plentiful at home.” All this should be
done on a popular plane, that is,
by the people, not by governments,
according to Dr. Frazer. The
Soviet Union has done it on a government plane, with the result that
the intelectual resources of the
Russian people have been mobilized in one direction—to Communism.

D.V.A. CHEQUES

D.V.A. cheques for the month of
February will be issued at the following hours on Monday and
Tuesday, February 27 and 28, in
the Men’s Residence:

10:00, 11:00 a.m.,
2:00, 3:00, 4:00 p.m.

Students are asked to please
make an effort to appear at the
hours above stated.

12:00 noon,

NOTICE

The Newman Club will have a
Communion Breakfast this Sunday
at 9:30 in the club rooms.

exacting job of recording the proceedings, also thanked Mr. Fraser
and all present for their contribution to a very successful Mock
Parliament. Mr. Fitzpatrick, of the
MRP lead the “three cheers and a
Tiger” for the Speaker, who in return said that he too thought this
had been one of the best Mock
Parliaments”, with just the right
blending of seriousness and humour.” He left the House amid
sincere and noisy applause.

Refresh... Add
Lest To The Hour

Diana Sweets
Tea Room

| The students recreation centre

a five-year course leading to the
degree of Bachelor of Nursing
Science. Graduates will find
ready employment at a high
level in the nursing profession.
Three years from matriculation
standing are spent in university
and two years in hospital. Students’ interested who are now
pursuing Science Courses should
communicate with the Registrar’s Office for further details.

er

the seminar was held in Holland,
considerable attention was paid to
a practical experiment at present
being carried out in European Union. The object of Benelux is complete economic union, to be achieved by degrees in a year or so. The
Dutch admitted that they were encountering many difficulties, but
they were quite confident that ultimately they would achieve their
goal. It is to be hoped that this
'| spirit will prevail throughout Western Europe to form a European
‘WE | Union in time to be an effective
phe check on the Pe pax ORG

oe
Ca ty ee ie
Sey) RE oa

feels
7 <I

Come on Students

ie Th The Best Ask for it either way .. . both

trade-marks mean the same thing.

COCA COLA LTD, HALIFAX

 
ing jnto the common room one day last week and contemplat
- more than burying my sorrows in a bottle of chocolate

“my teeth in a peanut butter sandwich (and at the same time

rt 2 shing the thought of leaving with a brown taste in my mouth) I

{ self i in the company of a few students who were nostalgically

tiles hdey inhabitants, the face has taken on a Srofesaional
o longer are the days of unorthodox play and comical participwhen a shot could be from any contorted angle and made. The

ing I can ‘see that is Paaaehes even close to the pro set-up is

og * was introduced to protect the players from sharp thonntit and
A sim
ed The main reason was ‘the half time ee ante.
that time the players would eat only the main body of the oranges
e ‘discard the skins. In the old days however, they ate skin and all,
ng t the seeds to spit in the oppositin’s eye. The player creating most
hey ivoe was top seeded. There is a suggestion that should be offered and
on if accepted it would ol the ate omewhere near the pro ae

Tikes ay of ball and comes across with its shar eof comic waiting:
, nee _ Last Saturday, basketball fans were treated to a triple-header of
: il] Canalagous to three fingers of scotch), The opening game featured

Fa ieok sists well played; so wall that I was bacpirod to write it up in

Re vo the chummy manner of our local sportscribe. But the combined result

being shy and failure of my feminine costume to fool anyone pre
tell me from getting to their dressing room (I wonder how he’d go

The second game developed as expected and Dal trounced the Acadia team by a convincing margin. That news however is week old but
the officiating has lingered on and has necessitated comment. Every
year the M.I.A.U. assigns to each intercollegiate basketball game two

ae referees. ‘These designated officials must be therefore fairly compet
ent to rate such undertakings BUT the actionary decrees of the offic
 jals in the Dal-Acadia game provoked much dissatisfaction and left

much to be desired. And further more the comic tendency of one of the

_ two to dominate the court took much away from the jeven progress a
game should be played. I'D suggest that he become a traffic cop as he
should easily meet the prerequisites with his wild and comic gesticulations—he could direct pedestrians with his arms, the cars with his legs
and the cyclists with his mobile tongue.

The third game of the program featured the Dal juniors against
the Q.E.H. battalion. A second attempt to gain entry into the girls’
dressing room forced me to miss this game and that attempt was again
in vain. (Come Mr. Pottie, let me in on the secrets of the trade.)

Next week end the cathedral town of Antigonish will be under invasion from four possible Dal attacking units. The Dal varsity hockey
and basketball teams will be journeying to do battle and there is the

_ possibility of the junior team and the girls’ team making the trip. The
spotlight however will be on the varsity ball game and a large excursion of Dal partisans is expected to mature although the proposed plans
are yet embryonic.

JUNIOR

Readers of this last paragraph
wil tend to think that the writer is
becoming too harsh and critical
with the efforts of the writers of
the local newspaper but when the
big cog of the afternoon sports
page offers something as hazy as
a cumulus cloud and as snag-proof
as a rose petal, one suspends all
standards of human charity and
kindness, to adopt a cynical exterior and proceeds to rectify the injustice done to journalism.

Following is an excerpt characteristic of his nebulous style. “Middleton Cards (the baseball team)
may be back the following year. It
is mo great secret that the valley
town lost a lot of money the past
two seasons. They were much
weaker than the other clubs in the
circuit and consequently drew
smaller crowds all over. One had
to admire their tenacity though.
They kept trying’.—The above
quotation poses a few problems.
What did they draw the crowds
over; and who was tenacity? their
ultility outfielder or the spirit of
the small crowds; and who kept
trying? the team or the small
crowds.

MARCH 1, 1950
9.00 P.M.

Semi-Formal
No Corsages

Anyone who has ever had a cold
knows that if your nasal passages
are blocked off you don’t have a
very good gense of taste. For
heaven’s sake Ace, blow your nose!

Meet Your Friends at
THE

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

Adm.—Seniors: $1.00
All Others—$2.00

Boxing Tourney
Monday Evening

The annual University boxing
championship bouts will be run off
in the Gym on Monday evening at
7.30 P.M. All the Dal fighters,
tagged by local experts as the boys
to beat in this year’s edition of the
Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing
Tournament, held in Fredericton
on the 15th and 16th of March will
see action. In adition, some of the
best in local professional talent
wil be featured in exhibition bouts.

As a main bout, Dick “Kid”
Howard, Maritime lightweight
champion, and among the top men
in the Dominion, will fight a four
rounder with the up-and-coming
Keith Paris, the leading challenger, and brother of Dal Coach Percy
Paris. In the semi-final, big Jim
Cruikshanks of Dal,
heavyweight champ for the past
two years, will tangle with Cecil
Gray, who has recently come to the
fore in the professional heavyweight picture. The Maritime
lightweight champion, Alvin Upshaw, will referee all bouts, and

several other stars, among them)

Herby McMullin, pro featherweight
challenger, and Gerry Boucher,
Maritime flyweight champ, will
appear on the card in addition to
the Dalhousie fighters, eleven of
them, who will engage in elimination bouts. Don’t miss this exciting feature, admission free.

ol iy : Ae ey rhs ne oe ip: #
é ed 5 + re a ea ho , ¥ oe
= f ee Sey at a eee :

eo S's :
1 GAZE TTE ae

4 ¥. a f an,
gt ig bee at

i

eb ason Flips Clincher In Final
Second As Tigers Win Over Sailors

The Dal Tigers, led by diminutive “Arpy” Robertson, gave the
local fans their second “Frank Merriwell” finish of the season on Tuesday evening as they came from behind a three-point deficit in the final
25 seconds to take a one-point win from a vastly improved Stadacona
aggregation. The Tars led from the opening whistle and with less
than half a minute to go in the game, led by’a 41-88 score.

The Tigers snatched a Navy pass out of the air and stormed the
Sailor citadel with shots. Finally, with 25 seconds to play, Jimmy
Mahon tapped in a rebound and the Tars led 41-40. Bob Coe of the
Navy dribled up the floor and attempted to freeze the ball for the remaining few seconds, but once again Mahon came to the fore as he
lunged for the ball and the two players went to the floor. The referees called a jump ball and the Bengals called for time-out.

Maritime |

The jump was called with 12 seconds remaining and the taller Coe
reached the ball first and attempted to bat it out of bounds on the
Dal end. Then “Sharpy Arpy” entered the play. Anticipating Coe’s
move, Arp was right there to get
the ball and commenced his dribble
up the floor. Just before crossing
the center strip Robertson passed
to Seott Henderson, the set-shot
artist of the team. But Scott was
heavily guarded, and passed back.
| With one second to go, Arp let fly
a one hand shot from near center.
'The ball swiched cleanly through
the cords just as the final buzzer
sounded ending the game, with the
Tigers on top 42-41.

The playoff contest between the
| pennant-winning Bengals and the
| Sailors, who eliminated the Dal
' Grads in the league finals, was the

 

HE MADE IT! In the above action shot taken during the famous
Dal-St. F. X. game, guard Scotty Henderson leaps to.take a one- -hand

shot at the Xaverian basket, while

center Russ MacNeil of the X-Men

attempts to stop the shot. Scott, just after the picture was taken, sank

the shot. Rudy Pace, to the left,
X-Men in he picture.

Dal guard Gordy MeCoy, who won the

and Hank Propper are the other
game for

the Tigers in the final second of play can also be seen.

“B” Girls Down D.B.C. Club 20-19
In Another Sensational Ending

In the City “B” league, on Tuesday night the Dal girls came
through with another win
downed the D.B.C. girls team by a
score of 19-20. The girls are beginning to catch on to that sensational type of ending that is becoming traditional with the boys’
team and came from behind in the
last few minutes to come out on
top. With about two minutes to go
the score was 16-19 for the Dartmouthians, and the Tigeresses
came through with, two quick shots;
one by Caroline Logan and the
other by Joan Baxter. Joan played a top rate game, scoring a total
of 11 points. “Caroline put in 5
pts. and Barb Lohnes and Joyce
Hart divided the rest o fthe score
between them. Gert Somers of
D.B.C. was high scorer for her
team with 12 points.

On Friday the Senior Varsity
basketball team, Nova Scotia Intercollegiate Champions will head
for Mount Allison at Sackville in
quest of the Maritime Intercollegiate title. The Mount A squad is
New Brunswick champions. They
triumphed over U.N.B. in a hard
fought, total point series, coming

and |

|out on top 4-48. Both Dal and
Mount A are going all out to win
the title. The teams are evenly
matched so the games should be of
a high calibre. Probable starting
line-ups for Dal will more than
likely find up .forward — Betty
Cousins, Marilyn MacIntyre, and
Gay Esdale, with Jean MacLeod,
Lucy Calp and Betty Petrie back
on defence.

Lack of Interest
In D.G.A.C. Interclass

The D.G.A.C. Interclass Sports
meet held in the gym last Tuesday
night was a dead loss. Numerous
individuals signed up, probably
with the very best intentions, but
when their turn came around to
play they were no where in sight.
Only one class representative
showed up, which shows that “student apathy” is beginning to creep
even into the gym. The various
matches will have to be played off
during the week and the schedules
have been left up in the Gym and
at Shirreff Hall.

 

first of a best-of-three series for
the right to advance to the provincial playdowns. The next game
will be played on Friday evening at
the Stadacona gym at 7.30 p.m.

The game on the whole was fairly dull, although rough, until the
final five minutes, when Robertson
and Mason MacDonald took over
with the Tigers down seven points.
Arp sank five straight foul shots
and generally completely controlled the play before his game-winning basket, and Mason racked up
two consecutive one-handers and
played a large part in disorganizing the Navy defence. Since they
were taken over by Coach Frankie
Baldwin, who is priming the Q.E.H.
Juveniles for the Dominion finals,
the Sailors are the most improved
squad in the Intermediate circuit,
and although the Bengals. admittedly had an off night, the boys in
blue will give plenty of competition.

High man of the evening for the Tigers was again Chuck Connely
with ten markers.

Pirates of Penzance -
(Continued from page One)
best feminine performances in her
role as Ruth the pirate maid of all
work. Her lovely contralto voice
will prove a definite asset in future
productions.

Also outstanding in solo roles
were Ronald Beare, as Frederick
the pirate apprentice and Richard
Miller as Major-General Stanley.
Ishbel Campbell gave a_ splendid
performance as Mabel, although
her voice was rather weak in some
places. Ann Thexton who has appeared in many Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, turned in her usual
dependable performance.

Credit for the general excellence
of the Pirates is due to Professor
Hamer’s untiring efforts and the
improvement in the orchestrg in
particular was one of the most
pleasant surprises of the evening.

Student Forum-(Continued from page One)

ed only to investigate the year
book activities since October of
1949, when the present Council
took over.

On the strength of those facts,
it was moved that a less biased
committee should be appointed,
composed of non-Council members,
who should review impartially the
decision reached by the Council.

After some discussion, during
which it was pointed out that the
motion amounted to one of nonconfidence in the Council, it was
defeated by a large majority.

It was then moved that the meeting be adjourned, and continued
next Tuesday.

Resignation-
(Continued from page One)
hands of the student body and
places it in the hands of a university oficial”, he said. —

Student. Council President Bob
Hetherington, denied that the action limits the editorial freedom.
He charged that the resignations
“seem. to indicate a lack of responsibility,” among the paper’s editors. The resignations take effect
March 2, date of the last issue of

the current year,

 
