      
  

 

 

ws

ae

= &,

Pd

     
     
 
     
    

:
é

+

‘;

 

a
‘.

des 8 om
Paty, eo
“aan

, 74
\

a
Fe

’ y Zs ‘ er ay " ;

    
 

roe)

 

way ON NATIONAL RESEARCH BUILDING |

 

 

 

 

 

~ Shearwater —
vs.
SIE GAZETTE |
Saturday
Afternoon
America’s Oldest College Paper
Vol. LXXXII HALIFAX, N. S. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1949 No. 4

 

First Red Cross University Blood
Donor Clinic Claimed for Acadia

The following is
from a story which appeared in
The Halifax Chronicle-Herald
Thursday morning:

A new page in the history of
blood donor clinics was written today at Acadia University. This
was the first university clinic conducted by the Red Cross Society
east of the Rocky Mountains if not

“in all Canada.

_Mr, Bruce Williams, Director of
Donor Panels of Nova Scotia,
states that this was not the first
university blood donor clinic oper
an extract @—————————_

ated by the Red Cross, as one was
held at Dalhousie last year. He
further says that the release was
not authorized by any official of
the Red Cross, nor by Jim Gawley,
who organized the clinic at Acadia.

The credit for the first Red
Cross Blood Donor Clinie in the
Maritimes, at least, should go to
Dalhousie University, since the
clinic held here last year was the
first held at a Maritime university
since the inception of the service.

 

Beaver Club Announces Scholarships
Of 1400 to be Awarded to Veterans

Dal’s “vets” should be interested

‘in the announcement posted this

week, by the Registrar, to the effect that the Beaver Club Scholarships will again be awarded this
year, by the Trustees of the Beaver
Club Trust. For those who might
be interested, these scholarships
are open to all Canadian exservicemen, and their sons. Applications must be forwarded to the
Seeretary of the Beaver Club
Trust, by November 15, 1949,
Despite the current dollar-pound
problem, the scholarships are each
valued at $1400, and are tenable at
any University or College in Great
Britain. The duration of each
scholarship will be in the discretion of the Selection Committee.
In the choice of scholars, emphasis
will be on the humanities and soc
& jects as law, pedagogy, fine arts,

and sociology. It must, however,
et that the purpose
ar

es Fi i

 

of the scholarship is educational,
and not for research.

Selections will be made on the
basis of the material submitted
with each candidate’s application,
and a personal interview. There
will be NO written examination.
The Committee of Selection is
composed of such well-known men
as the Rt. Hon. Vincent Massey,
D.C., C.H., (chairman) Gen.
H. D. G. Crerar, C.H., C.B., D.S.O.,
Dr. Sidney Smith, K.C., LL.B.,
D.C.L., Dr. F. Cyril Tawhes. M.A.,
Ph.D., D.C.L., and the Hon. D. R.
Michener, K.C., LL.D.

Candidates must be Canadian
citizens, and must have served at
least one year in the Canadian
armed forces, during the war OR
Although preference will be given
the son of a man who so served.
to undergraduates (as of this academic year), candidates who have

Photo by Soberman
In the Moot Court—Feener (LCJ) and Baecardax (LJ) listen to the argument presented by solicitor Pye,
while Adams and Downie prepare their rebuttal.

Gazette

Correction

The Gazette erred in its announcement of the appointment of
Edwin P. Cohn as Associate Professor of Accounting and Auditing
in the Department of Commerce, in
its pages on Wednesday. The University has appointed Mr. Wilfred
Berman, B.Com., to be the Assistant Professor in Accounting and

Auditing. The reason for Mr.
Cohn’s resignation pertained to
health.

Mr. Berman was born in Montreal and served during the last
war in the Navy, during part of
which period he served as an instructor at the Signalling School in
Halifax. In 1945 he _ entered
McGill University and graduated
in 1948 with a Bachelor of Commerce Degree. While at McGill
his course included eight classes
in Accounting. He also served as
a demonstrator in Accounting at
McGill.

Since his graduation from college he has been” attached to a
Chartered Accountant firm as a
senior and during this period of
time continued his studies in Accounting. He has completed the
work required for ‘tthe Chartered
Accountant Diploma and took his
examination for this degree during
the first week of October.

The Gazette joins with the student body in wishing Mr. Berman
the best of wishes during his first
year as a lecturer at Dal.

or College work in Canada are
completed two years of University
eligible. Candidates will not be
disqualified by marriage but no
special allowances will be made for
dependents,

Further information may be re
‘ceived from the Registrar, along

with application forms.

* *

held each year and they are a reg
ular feature of a law student’s

legal education.
lawyers who graduated from Dalhousie attribute their success, in
part, to the invaluable experience
gained in these Moot Court Cases.

Students of all

law participate in the trials. Three |

third year students act as judges
and decide upon the merits of arguments presented by both sides.
They often take time out to help
clarify a difficult legal point in the
mind of one of the opposing attornies.

Two second year students act as
solicitors in each trial, one is assigned the pleading of the Plaintiff’s case and the other acts for
the Defendant. Each of these solicitors is assisted by a junior solicitor, a first year student, who explains some particular point in the
senior solicitor’s argument.

Breaches of Court etiquette are
Severely punished. Any person

found violating a rule of’ court be- |

havour is usually punished by be
three years of |

Students Receive Valuable \""

Experience in Presenting
Cases Before Moot Court

The first of this year’s Moot Court Trials was held Wednesday afternoon with all the dignity and decorum of a regular court sitting. Following the rules of procedure of the
Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, these mock trails are held to
acquaint law students with practical procedure and give them
experience in the pleading and presentation of actual cases.

A series of these mock trials is O——_— _—______
 

‘this term.

AW STUDENTS HOLD FIRST OF
| THIS YEAR'S MOOT COURT THs

*

 
 

\

Sodales to Hold First

Many famous Meeting Monday

A meeting is to be held next
Monday night in Room 3 of the
Arts Building of Sodales, the Dalhousie Debating Society. Business to be discussed is the MIDL
convention, a debating schedule
and the election of a new president.

A convention of the Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League is
to be held at Dalhousie sometime
Plans and arrangements must be made for this to insure its success. Hospitality
shown to those attending wil lreflect back on the student body of
this University.

It is hoped that this year there
will be a wider response to Sodales
especially among the Law Students and the Theologues.

ing ordered to purchase refreshments for the Judges or the attornies,

 

Excavation Work for New National
Research Building Nearly Complete

Excavation for the foundation@——
of the new National Research
Council Regional Laboratory is

nearing completion. Started in
June of this year, the work has
progressed favourably and _ the
form work for the foundation has
already been started. The MacDonald Construction Co. Ltd., of
Halifax has the contract.

Designed by resident architect
Leslie R. Fairn the new building
will be located on Oxford Street
almost opposite the Halifax Ladies
College. The main structure of
the laboratory will be 180 by 55
feet and there will be a wing containing a large boiler room. ‘The
building will be two stories high
constructed of steel framing, brick,
and finished stone facing. A spacious parking area will be conveniently located behind the main
building.

Of the very latest design the

a

laboratory will contain the most
modern fixtures. Aluminum window sashes will be featured
throughout. The laboratories themselves will be completely equipped
with the latest scientific equipment

necessary for modern research
work.

A National Research Council
project, the new laboratory will

house fifty full-time research
workers. Of special! interest to
Dalhousie is the fact that it will
also be available to additional
part-time research workers who
are continuing their studies at the
University.

A decided advantage to research
not only at Dalhousie, but from a
broader view point, the whole
Maritime Provinces, the National
Research Council Laboratory will
answer a long felt need in the four
Atlantic provinces.

 

 

  
 

 

 
  
      

     
    
        
       
     
         
       
    
  
      
  

 
 

  

     
    
  

vi f Published twice a week
_ Dalhousie University.
_ mecessarily those of the

 

mam AN .

Ot a fy

mse
r at rs

eas. £ }

zy =
i ‘ > rns ,

j ¥ ie ‘= 7.8 oa

4 /
sr ; '

© thn News
CHARLES MACINTOSH

_- VALERIE CATO

 

 

COLEEN MACDONALD

GLORIA HORNE

TA Wa tdbe Readare
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1949

GRANTS AND/OR GIFTS

net i. a recent address to the

 

University Press
by the Students’ Council of

Opinions expressed are not
tudents’ Council.
iptions write Business Manager, Dalhousie Gazette,

For sub
Editors-in-Chief

BRUCE LOCKWOOD

Business Manager
aan ALA kN | ALFRED HARRIS
BRM i A Page Editors —

Sports
JOE LEVISON

NEWCOMB BLOOMER
Features

MARG GOLDBURGH

_ BOB McINNIS NOEL GOODRIDGE BARBARA McGEOUGH

BETTY LIVINGSTONE

RONA YESS
No. 4

members of the University of

 

ALHOUSIE GAZETTE | Coffee, Please! og ’ “AMERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER

The dispensing of food at Dalhousie has undergone a big shakeup this year. And something got
lost in it. No longer can the hard
pressed workers of the Gazette, or
any other organization for that
matter, whip out for a quick smash
of coffee.

We like eff iciency and progress.
We’re all for it. But we sincerely
believe that this New Deal will
wreak havoc on those groups that
have in previous years subsisted
mainly on coffee. Coffee was the
mainstay of their (and our) universe.

Now, it’s history that for every
coffee bean in Brazil, at least two
cups were drunk on Dalhousie cam
ae ae Photographers ea
DAN SOBERMAN ERIC RICHTER BOB WOLMAN _ {bus last year. Which just goes to
yee ie Nee prove that, whether because of
Twin | pibay Anes  JORN ROSRETS Pe bn creme eal t* ue

percent of the Dalhousie student
body were coffee addicts last year.
With overwhelming figures such as

If somebody doesn’t start soon,
the Gazette may have to install its
own distil... ah... percolator, to
the everlasting detriment of all
beverage salesmen in sight.

Dental Notes

 

 

 
    

 
  

“Congratulations, Mr. Clout N. Putt!

a Cartoonist : ; . :
eid | | those in support of re-introducing Your admirers wonder if you were always
Fae fiat. ee foe a coffee shop to Dal, won’t some confident of winning ?”’
| Var ga ra enterprising individual sell coffee? ‘ “Absolutely! Dry Scalp simply never had .

a chance once I started grooming my hair
with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic.”’

WAC ee ENT GReile

TRADE MARK

 

‘VASELINE’ 1S THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESEBROUGH MFG. CO. CONS'D

  
 

  
  

_ Toronto Club, Dr. A. W. Trueman, President of the Univer- Bae, aie 4 a at.} SiR ad te See ae
_ sity of New Brunswick, commented on the growing need for|, es “i iene be ee, : ai

__ federal government assistance to universities. He based this Ne Mirae ce Socates oi ed i :
He i ere upon increased enrolments and higher operating Fae) Rui aE Par Nabe ae nena!

Weary hice Don’t forget now, boys and girls
f At first glance, it would seem that increased enrolments

Hee : . : (by the way, there are two girls in
_ were a thing of the past, and consequently an invalid reason] pentistry now—must get some de
 

    
   

 

    
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
    
    
        
     
   

 

ie _ for federal grants. University statistics throughout the
_ country show ten to fifteen percent student declines.

But

most of these are caused by the graduation of veterans, and

increased civilian enrolments are with us. A country with an

ever increasing population and, at the same time, ever in
creasing educational standards,

cannot but expect to see more

students desiring higher learning.

In the years immediately following the war, universities
were required to cope with vastly increased student bodies,

with no comparable increase in revenue.

It is a well known

fact that fees alone do not cover the costs of a university.

And yet, only fees reached college coffers . .
compensating government grants.
source of revenue withdrawn,

. there were no
Now, with even this
our universities must meet

higher operating costs, in salaries, maintenance, and deferred

maintenance expenses.

In the days of large fortunes, low operating costs, and
fewer students, universities could be expected to subsist on
endowments. But the above facts reveal the impossibility of
continuing this method of sustenance.

Dr. Trueman is President of a government supported
university ... the provincial government of New Brunswick,
and his statements would indicate that even that is insuffici
ent.

There are many objections, we know, to state subsidized
education. Perhaps these objections were responsible for the
delegation of educational matters to the Provinces in the
British North America Act. After all, it was drawn at a time

when the slightest suspicion
odious to the individualists

of government control was
who planned it., But times

change, populations shift and increase, competition and
therefore educational requirements become stiffer, and yet

the field of education seems

to be the only one in which

national government has not. recognized the fact.

As has so often been proven in Canada, there is nothing
incompatible in private and public entities pursuing similar
endeavours. Why, then, should it be amiss for the govern
ment to aid endowed universities, or run a few of its own?]..- ef Tere]? 2
We would not be submitting ourselves to a yoke of state-|.4 ssUrant, Which gets about | little’ brother:
3 ; eee 75% of its patronage from stu- : ; ‘
dictated theories. We would be availing ourselves of funds] gents. What remedies Beh ons Egbert’s promised his best girl to take 4
“iene in eee 7 ee we vag rkone $e would | orror? a i) ‘ v hee “ittle Brashinan Heochertainder hae
each the universities in as y tlow and permit long-range Fh NaN es ag \ A $e : ,
and integrated planning. That the fraternity row is giving | ai, wing and show him around. Now he’s

 

   

Dear Sir:

Everyone has at some time or
other wished to have his or her say
written up in print. Being un
_ possessed of the knack of writing

in journalistic style, I choose this
method of having my say whether
you print it or not. My name is
Gus. Otherwise I’m not a bad egg.
You'll find that Gus has a lot to
say about what he likes or doesn’t.

Letter to the Editors

show a little more of it at the
Canadian Football games, especially if our team is having a tough
go. That’s when they need our support most, not just when they’re
winning. Bouquets to the cheerleaders and band for noble efforts
under sometimes feeble support,
Don’t forget to save a little
dough for the Acadia trip on October 29th. It’s a worthwhile effort

How about that?
ew First I’d like to comment on a
_ eurrent topic hereabouts—football.

down to the last drop.

  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
    
 
   

schmozzle!
. the die-hards (that grawnd auld| gating.
~ support from the student body.

ae , They’ve got poor equipment and
little publicity but lots of spirit.

the campus!

  

oe
”
e bak ‘ a Pils pier
RT \ Sa.) Pe iPel ry i Te oe “ }
haa AB ine yee: A ere aN
ae al oy :

Ce i tee c eet Lee ‘
Ld ‘ 4 i ! é ay > } 222 ‘
has | a Peseta! OL Tt ran ne
r Bein + : , ely y F ‘
- ae ry i A ito | <7 3 re he < ate ae a
hh ry : Ne as ath ‘i 2

Ty

~ _

   
  

    
    

  
 

|

 

A plague on this year book

u It’s good to see that
_ Seems to me it’s just about time|}our worthy Council is investi
Other things I’ve heard around

Disgruntled rumblings concern| ing King’s athletes (football and
at’s what counts with old Gus—| basketball) who were informed in
irit. Speaking of spirit, let’s| ominous terms that they were not

tails on that if you know something we do not know, tell us, andwe will tell everyone.

Mr. Arthur has a broken finger.
Now, there would not be anything
unusual about that, except that it
is the little finger, “the boss” that
he thas broken, The theories on
just how this could be done are as
varied as they are colorful. But
in the meantime, the little finger,
in the splint, will not arch delicately from a glass, as was its habit,
but will continue to stick out like a
sore thumb. Mr. Arthur maintains
he jammed the finger in a door.
Well, it is possible, I suppose.

The main body of Dal students,
have by now, gotten into the
swing of things. We have been at
it a month now. The first year
boys have already seen a neurolemma they are really living now.
The seconds’ are underway with
their second base plate. The third
years have recovered from their
first day in the clinic—and the
fourth year boys have realized they
are fourth year boys.

But as we dentals say, it’s a long
grind,

to try out for Dal teams. Does
this controversy have to go on
year after year?

More grumblings about the high
prices and poor meals at a cer
new students the once over as
rushing season gets under way.
Be on your best behavior, young
men! ; |
High praise for the efficiency
and methods of “Vitamen” Vitalone, our new Physical Director.

That the track team is working
out regularly for the meet at
U.N.B. in a couple of weeks. Best
of luck to the boys!

That the girls ground hockey
team is rapidly rounding into
shape. (Is it possible here?)

Hoping to hear from me again

I defy Sam (whoever he is)
and give you Gus

as * *

EDITOR’S NOTE

Hereafter, all letters to the Editor must not exceed 200 words in
length, and must also be signed,
unless good reason for not doing
so can be shown the Editor.
Neither anonimity nor length add
materially to the quality of the
Letters to the Editor section,

{

V7 ms

% oy]
V//i
iam
ae f y Hy
ya
—

808 WiLson

 
  
 
   

 

‘ls THIS your

ey Say?

wondering just who’s going to show
who around !

But it’s a cinch. Egbert can put those
Frosh straight on plenty of things, especially money — and how to have enough
of it to enjoy college life. Ever since
first year Egbert’s been practising money
management at the Bof M. Now he’s
a Senior, he knows what he’s talking
about when he says — “Steady saving at
‘MY BANK’ pays off — but good !”

U4-2

al Laas (<

Bank or MONTREAL
ee LT

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

JOHN A, HOBSON, Mer.

JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mer.
CHARLES SMITH, Mer. North End Branch:

JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mgr. Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

Halifax Branch:

p sei iis alle As

  
  
    
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
    
     

  
  
  

‘i , A
‘a . :
Deere Oy '
4 : ” fn wi vi cw ci :
C i he d

by Windy O'Neill

 
   
  

  
   
   

Per “POME

“Our Upper Strata Was Once On The Rocks”.
_I come from La Belle Nova Scotia,

Rum running was once here supreme,

: ae _ And in its stealth, fine families gained wealth,

ae | But now claim it was only a dream. f

é = 7 # * *

‘Byery year, to see how our choppers are faring under frequent

a etlestiane of Dr. Oland’s Pain Killer, we visit The Dalhousie Dental

Clinic, The service is good, the work expert, and most important, the

cost is low. We once had the occasion to visit a dentist in the Province

of Quebec for reattachment of a bridge removed by an expert in a

round table discussion, In sticking his head in our mouth, he went

ecstatic over the dental work therein. .As a matter of fact, it took his

eh reath away. After he came to, he was mighty surprised that such

__,@xpert work was done by dental students.

* * * =

    
   
  
  
   
 
   
    
    
 
 
   
 

‘The Tent boys do most of the work for the local children’s homes
ay we understand that Dal students are welecome—many do take ad_ vantage of the low cost and convenient appointments. It is heartening
= 0 see all the fine little children from the local orphanages getting such
_ conscientious treatment and to observe the youngsters’ deportment.
- There must have been fifty kids in the room the day we were there, and
there was nary a whimper to be heard. For these toothy-grin chil| | dren this was a holiday. |

Br ie * * * *

my

   
   
 
  

   

  
 
 
 
  
  

   
  
 
 
 
 

' A After witnessing the yowls and screams of youngsters with parents
and nice homes, having their monthly haircut, we wonder if these
future citizens from the homes are so bad-off, after all. Though they
_ receive loving care from the good social workers, Sisters and teachers
in charge, they would never be spoiled. On top of this, these children
learn to iron out problems with their associates at an early age.

* * * * >

Adding to the decor with the feminine touch is popular Kay Stack.
- She is in her final year and her work of last session brought an eagerly sought scholarship. Although she is certainly no frail frail, Kay
” found difficulty at last year’s clinic in yanking pestiferous molars from

the more robust eateries, so, last summer she determined to strengthen
_ her good right arm by squeezing a rubber ball at every possible occa4 sion (this is an exercise recommended by physio-therapists and many
_ athletes).

 

* * * *

re Kay told us that it worked great and that she has since become the

_ Arm-Wrestling Champion of Cape Breton, where she worked last summer on the mobile dental unit. However, we would like to warn her of
the dangers of overdoing this exercise. We spent one vacation workThis particu
 

- ing at a summer hotel in the Ontario Muskoka district.
b lar hostelry catered to an older clientele who usually paid their fare
4 in thousand dollars bills. About the only diversion at this peaceful place
was an array of inviting-looking one-arm bandits, On a clear day the

steady whirl-click-click-click of the slot machines could be heard over
_ the furious clashing of knitting needles,

   
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

BS * of *

At the end of the summer, one could easily distinguish those wayward old ladies who had indulged in the gambling. One arm would be
thin and emaciated, while the slot-machine arm would hang out of the
Sleeveless dresses, muscles bulging and rippling on the overdeveloped
forearm and bicep. Ha! Again demonstrated that crime does not pay.
Watch out, Kay—no squeeza-da-ball too much!

It’s Three O’clock
In The Morning

No Dave, please, we must go home. I know it’s hard to
stay on this narrow sidewalk but you just grab my arm now,
that’s it, and we’ll manage.

Dave, it’s three a.m., don’t sing
that song so loudly. Alright, so|light? It is Dave—a light—in the
the fellows at the club thought it] upstairs window. It just came on!
was funny, but I don’t think the|Let’s go Dave. Leave the flowers,

 

 

Look—

  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   

out of that flower bed!
ie —you trampled that lovely rose

neighbors are going to appreciate
it at this time of the morning.
Sure Dave, you were the life of the
party, especially when you danced
on the banquet table, and I agree,
_the president had no reason to get
“ sore—it might have been the dessert you poured down his neck instead of a mere cocktail. Oh
well, it was time he went home
anyway.

Oh Dave, I’m sorry! I didn’t
mean to push you into the gutter—
but I tripped over that cigarette
butt. Here, let me brush you off!
Dave! If you call me just one
more of those names I won’t help
you anymore. So it is your best

_ suit, but you needn’t be mad about

it. I said I was sorry, and you can
have it cleaned tomorrow.

I think it would be fine to take
some flowers home to the little
woman Dave, but you can’t get
them at this hour of the morning.
“No Dave! Some back here! Get
Oh Dave

- bush—what would the owner say?

a Ae . to pick the flowers but
| ; | come, especially those who started

yi A mi

you don’t want any more.
the downstairs lights—he’s coming
out after us Dave. Stop that
Swearing and come on—you’ve already wrecked two flower beds.
Oh look—he’s coming out—let’s
go!

Hurry Dave, hurry—he’s gaining

on us. No, don’t stop and apologize, just run. Come on Dave,
come on! No, Dave, no, no, no.
; All right Dave, take it Saewccd
just one more block—that’s it.
Sure, I know you played football at
college, Dave, but why did you
tackle him? He wasn’t playing
football. I won’t shut up, and I
hope your jaw does hurt! Oh stop
worrying about your sore nose,
what I want to know is how I’m
going to explain this shiner to my
wife.

NOTICE
The Newman Club will hold its
first meeting Sunday, Oct. 16, in
the Club rooms at the Corner of
Barrington and Harvey Sts. Since
plans for the coming year will be
discussed, all members’ should

| Dal this year.

| 1S ‘Se eas Bess

It was once pointed out that it is
eultural understanding which is
one of the main factors not only in
averting war but also in cementing
peace, With this. understanding
goes, of course, intellectual freedom; and more than that, a freedom to express one’s thoughts
without fear of consequences.

It was with this in mind that the
Second International Student Service Seminar came together. It
was this very idea which was the
keynote of its success... an idea
so vital to any gathering of this
type and so very important especially at the present time, particularly to those who had not always
known such a privilege. It was
therefore, the aim of the ISS to
bring together students from all
parts of the world to attend a
gathering in which perfect freedom of thought was guaranteed,

Thus 120 students representing
fifteen nationalities met at Castle
Bouvigne near Breda in Holland,
for a period of five weeks,

The Seminar was not a summer
school; it did not pretend to be a
training ground for specialists, nor
did it hope to make better economists, better historians out of its
participants. But what it did try
to do was to prepare the way to
make its members better citizens
of the world, better members of
their respective communities, by
showing that a true understanding,
arrived at by examining many
points of view, can break the barriers which keep people apart,
which allow them to build up prejudices and which make them hostile to each other.

 

VELVET

PENCILS ARE

 

This means that

the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
You can’t buy better
school pencils !

 

‘WENUS PENCIL CO,, LTD., TORONTO m&

 

Music Appreciation

On Tuesday evening, at 8:00, the
Music Appreciation Group. will
meet in Shirreff Hall. The program will include Brahms’ Symphony No. 1 in C major, Bach’s
Piano Concerto in F minor, and
Handel’s Great Elopement Ballet
Suite.

The group has been formed for
those who enjoy listening to music;
it is neither a class nor a study

group.

Page Three

SCM Ooeus Activities

Miss Helen Burlton, a secretary
of the Student Christian Movement
of Canada will introduce the SCM
in its world-wide role.

    

Those attending will also be introduced to the mehods of group
study which many here at Dalhousie have found tremendously
significant. The open-house begins
with singing at eight’ p.m. in the
men’s residence, on Sunday, October 16.

 

There’s More To The Game
When You Play Refreshed

¢

  

TRADE MARK REG

‘Coke

TRADE MARK REG

 
 

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

 

What you get
when you buy

ARROW
ENSEMBLES

 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 

  
 

You get — shirts, ties and
handkerchiefs designed as
a team.

SHIRTS — with the famous one-and-only Arrow
Collar (in a variety of styles) labelled Sanforized—
fabric shrinkage less than 1%!

TIES — that harmonize beautifully with the shirts.

HANDKERCHIEFS — that add that never-failing
final touch.

See your Arrow dealer — for Arrow Ensembles.
Cluett, Peabody & Company of Canada Limited.

Look for the Registered Trade Mark ARROW

ARROW SHIRTS

TIES e HANDKERCHIEHFS

 

     

 
 

   

Beldoe eke" thes eee er eet

es trot 27 t } =

Duke Morgan, 220 pound halfback who starred in Monday’s game at
Truro will bolster Dal backfield tomorrow at Shearwater,

 

   

needed for Varsity Hockey and

Boxing, Interfaculty Football, Hoc
key and Basketball. Andy MacKay, President of the Dalhousie
Amateur Athletic Club, states that
failure for students to apply for
these positions is holding up activities for the forthcoming year.

Managers Wanted

7 ‘Managers are still urgently

McKenna have been obtained until
Christmas. If sufficient interest
is shown in boxing he will be kept
on after the New Year.

Physical Director Gabriel Vitalone has put Charlie King in
charge of the Soccer Squad. Interest has been small to date

Assorted Talent

Tuesday evening in the Dal Gym
was the scene of the first tryouts
for the 1949-50 edition of the
Black and Gold’s Junior, Intermediate, and Varsity basketball teams.

A good turnout of more than 35
players was introduced to Gabriel
Vitalone, who succeeds Jack
Thomas as head hoop mentor for
the Tigers this year. Coach Vitalone, after stressing the need for
strict training rules, put the boys
through a short but vigorous
workout.

Returning to the basketball wars
are such seasoned veterans as
Andy MacKay, Scott Henderson,
“Arp” Robertson, Earl Smith,
“Dee” Shaw and Jim Mahon.
Eligible again this year are Scott
Morrison and “Chuck” Connely,
members of the 1947 Dalhousie
varsity team. Add to this “Red”
Findlay, Doug Clancy, H. Leonard,
and Ernie Semple all highly touted
freshmen plus Big Bob Black and
Gordie McCoy, transfer students
from Mt. A., and the prospects for
a winning season appear excellent.

Last semesters Junior team captured the Maritime Title for the
second straight year. Inside
sources predict that the Dal hoopsters will again gain their fair
share of the championship laurels.

Workouts will be held in the
Gym every evening it is available
in preparation for the first Junior
Game later this month. Practices
will start at 6:30 P.M. and be of
about one and one half hours duration. This year’s manager, Ian
Palmeter, informs your reporter
that playing positions are. still
open on all teams and invites all

 

It was also learned that the services of a boxing coach, Mr. Jack'ed next week.

students with playing ability to

though a larger turnout is expect‘try out.

 

What 'Has the COTC
to Offer You?

In time of need to qualify for a commission in
the Canadian Army — either as Active or
Reserve.

Three summers of four months training each at
full pay ($153 per month), plus board, lodging,
clothing and transportation.

A training that will fit in with your education,
whether general, technical or professional and
as well develop a healthy body, an alert mind,
and leadership qualities.

The chance to meet students from twenty-four *
other universities from Newfoundland to British
Columbia.

Be % % %

Applications are particularly invited from Sophomores in Engineering, first and second years
Arts, Science, and Commerce—first year Law,
Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy.

Come and talk it over with the Resident Staff

Officer—Major J. N. Cram

at the C.0.T.C. Office in the Dal Gym, or Phone at

one of the numbers listed on the C.O.T.C. Bulletin |
Board in the Gym. c

Remember that: the
so apply early.

quota for 1949-50 is limited,

‘

Z = : - t ’ : .
a Fy : 1 a a ee ee os Aas aa hel

a, ph og ‘te + >. . ts i 4 pha a 2 ie ‘

i é } - é 4 ;
a ta ae ne i te f of ga eee 4
Ba Zoli Es eed latid igs alge Ta it al ae eae a eee ee ee ee zx

 

“AT DAL IN TWIN BILL
EXPERIENCE AND LACK OF TRAINING.
FACILITIES TAKE TOLL

Basketball Draws” Acadia Shows Form in Taking

ta

_— —— ere

a

‘ ial day 1 0 i
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

DEFEATS

Twin Rugger Match from Dal

The Dalhousie Senior and

Intermediate English Rugger

Teams lost both games of a scheduled double-header in their

league debut Wed., Oct. 12, to visiting Acadia Axemen. The ©

Intermediates were beaten 13-0, while the Seniors went down

26-0.
In the Senior tilt of the

afternoon the Tigers, handi
capped by poor conditioning, injuries and lack of practice,
were unable to cope with the superb passing and experience

of the Axemen.

Clarke of Acadia opened the @————————_-——_——————

scoring early in the first half by
breaking through the Dal line for
a Try. McAskill kicked the convert. Delorie, Farquhar and Doug|
MacDonald stood out for Dal in the
half.

In the second half, Dal’s scrum
had difficulty in getting the ball
out and Lorne White of Acadia
broke through time and again, finally going over for the try. MeAskill was successful in kicking the
convert. Later in the half White,
Clarke, and MacKenzie again)
crossed the line for the Axemen.

The Intermediate game was well
played by both teams however the
Axemen seemed to be in better |
shape and were much more organized than our boys. Dunlop and
Demont were the mainstays of the |
Acadia team, Dunlop scoring six
points on two. Tries with Demont
picking up seven.

The Axemen’s passing plays had
the Tigers baffled most of the way
and their play was much smoother.
Tracy and Ellis stood out for Dalhousie while Dunlop and Demont
starred for Acadia.

 

- FORSYTH’S
MEN’S SHOP

 

      
    

Headquarters
for
Fine Clothing - Sweaters
and Furnishings

 
 
    
 
  
 

  

Discount
Extended to all DAL Students

262 Gottingen St. 4-1172

  
    
 

 

 

Class Jewellery

Its not too early to plan the
class order of rings and pins.

Birks Contract Department
will be glad to assist with designs and special prices
group orders.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

for

 

D.G.A. C. Meeting |

Outlines Program

ie

       
     

¥

    
  

‘e.
gyi

§

Y {
- |

ie

be

The first meeting of the Dal |

housie Girls’ Athletic Club was
held on Tuesday evening at 7:30 in
the Dal Gym for the purpose of
appointing class managers for the
coming season.

Frances Doane presided and the
minutes of last term’s final meeting having been read, the present
managers spoke for a few minutes
eoncerning their plans for supervision in the various. sports.
Three new managers were chosen
—Marilyn MacIntyre, Connie Cyr,
and Gretchen Hewitt for Swim
/ming, Basketball and Archery re
spectively.

During the course of the evening Miss Betty Evans, our new
Physical Director, was officially
welcomed by the Club after which
She gave a short address outlining
her principles, plans and general
program of «training for the
coming year.

Miss Evans announced that an
Intramural League will be formed
shortly for those wishing to play
Basketball on Wednesday and Friday at 1:30.

 

  

.
~~
NW

 
 
 
 

Sy

A

s

rS>
Ans

  

s
ase

  

TWIN SETI Fancy cable stitch
in pullover, across shoulders of
cardigan. All wool, popularly
priced, everywhere.

OTe

TEA Me Le

 

 

 

OOS 2 LE A)

Wola 448

 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a

peace; “Say Schwartz and

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

good slogan in
be Sure”. We urge it for

your protection that you may be assured of the incom
parable Schwartz quality
Butter, Jelly Powder,

in Coffee, Spices, Peanut

Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

 

Ce

}
|
r

 

ae

S

4
Page es

£

 

 
