|

>7

 

    

are = re Wi
Ce > f _

oe +e
i a ; ey *

Ws
:

i Pee yer ee oes
+f. mq > @
a eal _~

oe Last St ree

1

 

AT BRINGS LATEST RETURNS ON BRITISH ELECTION

 

The Daily Monopolies (both of them)
constantly aim to be
Humane, Cuddley,
and Punktual Newspapers.

Circulation: 100, 000
Pulse: 36
Température: 110
Low tonight,

High tomorrow

Of the Advertisers; By the Advertisers; For the Advertisers

THE DAILY MONOPOLY

Weather Forecast
Halifax Office
12:15 p.m.

Windy about noon. Short
period of calm followed
by gales, hot air, and rising temperatures. Tomorrow we'll all be out in
the cold,

 

Vol, LXXXII

HALIFAX, N. S., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1950

No. 33

 

 

In the most enthusiastic burst of college spirit yet shown at Dullhousie University, the Students, at a Student Forum, unanimously
voted to adjourn until Tuesday. One of the more dramatic moments of

the meeting is shown above.

 

Limies Like Luck as

Liberals Lose Lots;

London Logs Labour Landslide

LONDON, Feb. 27—(BURP)—First returns from the
British general elections came in today at nine o’clock, only
thirty-six hours after the polls closed. They show that a Conservative M.P., Major Ashburn, was returned to power in his

South English riding of Foxhound.
SS.

To bé No Red Herrings
Tho Communists Win

LONDON, Feb. 27—(Rotters)—
In a program monitored here today by the BBC Listening Service,
Radio Moscow carried a report. by
GASS, the Soviet News Service,
about the elections to be held
shortly in the USSR. The commentator denounced the decadent
system used in the Western countries, saying that it allowed each
of the bourgeoise middle class to
have one vote too much say in who
should represent them.

The commentator contrasted this
with the state of affairs in the
Soviet Union, where the issue was
not confused by a multiplicity of
parties.

In the Soviet Union there is no
doubt in the minds of anyone as
to who is going to win. Hence, no
sleep is lost and Soviet workers
are able to contribute their all to
the fight against Imperialism and
the betterment of all colonial
peoples.

The speed with which the returns have been coming in has
been attributed to a new method of
counting them, recently put into
effect by the Labour government,
and credited with the victories in
all recent by-elections. The new
system does away with the oldfashioned machinery, and now some
two-hundred thousand faithful
Labourites are busy trying to miscount.

SPLASH!!! Prime Minister
Battly spilled his tea tonight when
he learned. that his party was leading by an overwhelming majority,
according to latest returns. Standings show:

Labour 5

Conservatives 1

Liberals and others 4

Since Thursday evening English
newspapermen, politicians, radio
men and bookies have been sitting
in smoke-filled rooms,
awaiting the arrival of more cigarettes. Occasionally, the two
major political parties made play
(Continued on page four)

Russia and China Sign Non-Agression
Pact; China Agrees Not to Menace USSR

MOSCOW, Feb. 25—(BURP)—The Red Square was filled with people today, Stalin and Mao met in the Kremlin to
sign the Sino-Russian friendship pact. Speaking to the cheering crowds below, Stalin said that this step marked a new
high in Russian foreign policy; their last friendship pact, he
said, had secured Russia a mere few millions as against this
addition of four hundred million.

 

Citizens Terrorized by

Ferocious Man Eating

BEE, 0O., Feb. 26—(URP)—Consternation reigns supreme in this
little Ohio community today as
panic stricken citizens remain quivering behind locked doors with
loaded shotguns. All business is
at a standstill and public utilities
are not operating, as everybody in
the area remains at home in fear
of a deadly Emperor penguin that
escaped from the local zoo on Friday. State police has been alerted
and a group of Eskimo huntersis
being flown in to help trap it.

A tragedy occurred when the
mayor of Bee, wounded by a trigger-happy policeman. “He looks

like a penguin” was the constable’s
explanation.

 

Asked for comment, President
Shrewman put down his ice-cream
cone and asked where the Kremlin
was. When told, he sighed, and
said: “I bet we got a bigger one in
Missouri.” He was unable to comment further on the situation as
Secretary Charlie Rost led him
away to the State Teachers’ Ass’n
Weinie Roast where he was due to
make a speech.

OTTAWA, Feb. 26— (CUP) —
When approached for comment on
the treaty, government members
had little to say. Pressed for comment one Minister said absently:
“We shall buy coal in the Maritimes”. The Leader of the Opposition, commenting on the situation,
called for provincial rights for all
provinces, and denounced the goyernment’s foreign policy. The

(Continued on page four)

 

anxiously |

 

 

 

In The Daily
MonopolyT oday

CRIME Naika Cl tea se eae ae 2.3; 4 |
POLICE, SPOTHORCIC | ine! cela nss cleo eee 1 |
POPCIEH | NGWE ns oe sia eieleces sale e's 1 |
MIRUOPERAS UD i Cais Wel dace bp ae 2 |
SCRE CINCY Nie-w sowie alate 5 |
Re lets Gieaiecaodieriibie 1 |
RRS RINO Sy Mie path ace ile «0! Sie, 8 ales 1
Murder

Literature & Arts

Sports

Funnies

Crime

SEES ah RS

Bloody but unbeaten, Herbert L

 

BRAIN TRUST MIS:
TRUSTS BEEF TRUST

Reveal How Combinations

Held Up as Support Slack

by AVALON §S. SCRUFFS
Special to the Monopoly

OTTAWA, Feb. 27—(URP)—Beef rose fourteen points

wk
7 Ey
> ’
o-/ >
2
*

.

emon struggles valiantly to regain

the top of the steps by the MacDonald Library. His first attempt to
negotiate the perilous steps ended in failure, and two attempts later he

broke his back.

Student Slips Suffering Sprained

Sacroiliac on

Tight Little Campus |
As Truck Rums Wild

The Supreme Court is expected
to hand down its decision this evening in the notorious case of Dullousie V Rex, better known as the
“Tight Little Campus” Case. The
hearing lasted threé days and contrary to the usual rule, the evidence became more accurate as
more time elapsed.

The facts briefly are these. A
large delivery van of the A.B.C,
Brewery Co. Ltd. proceeded along
the Dal campus road from Coburg
Road in the direction of the new
Arts Building when a dog known
to-everyone as Pee Tah, ran in
front of the truck. The driver
(God rest his soul) swerved the
truck and crashed into a stone obstacle which is famous to students
on the path between Dal and Rex.
In the ensuing disorder the driver
was killed (R.LP.) and the doors
of the huge van were split open.
In what seemed seconds students
and teachers got load of the situation and carried away about
twenty percent of it. It was then

(Continued on page two)

 

Studley Steps

————-® DALHOUSIE, Feb. 27 — (UPU) |
| —Yesterday at noon, Herbert!

Lemon, popular male nursing student, slipped and broke his back on
the steps next to the MacDonald
Library. Mr. Lemon, in an agitated

state after a hard morning
taking pulses and temperatures, |
slipped three times before the

steps finally got him.

The near-deceased was heading
home for dinner. He approached
the steps had almost managed to
negotiate them entirely the first
time. But the last step was covered with a deposit of ice from Sunday’s tsorm, and Lemon slid on it.

Not one to be easily beaten,
Lemon determined to return to the
top of the steps, and try again. A
half-hour later, by dint of a supreme hand-over-hand technique
employed on the railing, he again
reached the top. Witnesses report
that Lemon was a little winded,
but otherwise intact.

Unfortunately, some of the spectators had brought their lunches
with them, to eat while they beheld the spectacle. As a result,
Lemon came to grief on the top
step. One of the hungry students
had let a piece of wax paper flut
(Continued on page four)

© | tigation.
|concluded that the key word was
| Combinations, and the underwear

eee e ewe cena suwaceces 3;on the stock exchange tonight, and Government circles were
cette ee ebewees 3/rocking, after the noisiest Parliamentary crisis since the
UO ee ig alte a sh as ether 4; Description Issue during the war.
oie art hisieety mise atti al See ok: 3; Speaker stalked out of an unruly House until order was resaPeete is Rises BGM Ue ie'd yc naw hp 4) stored, and the Opposition had a field day.

Time and

again the

. The Department brought down
|1ts report under the Combinations
| Investigations Act, and by some
| Strange oversight, the clerk en| trusted with the preparation of the
‘report had forgotten that the Beef
| trust was the subject of the invesConsulting the Act, he

industry had been held up as the
offender.

Members of the Department’s

| Brain Trust, including Mr. Farson,
|rose to explain the clerk’s mis
take. In a moving speech which
brought tears to the eyes of Liberal investors, the Minister asked
members to consider the ¢lerk’s
mistake as ‘most natural”. He
spoke of the clerk’s humble origin,
the fact that he had not had the

 

 

 

benefit of higher education and the
fact that he had been a faithful
party supporter for years. To
avoid future mistakes of this sort
he proposed to change the name of
the Combinations Investigations
Act to the Permutations Investigations Act.

The Leader of the Opposition
was scathing in his denunciations
of the Government’s “slackness”’.

Why had the Beef trust been
singled out anyway? He felt that .
Something must be done. It was
now, he concluded amid the cheers
of the Opposition, up to the Government to see that Something
Was Done.

At Press time the situation was
still confused. The Garment Manufacturer’s Association sent a delegation to the Prime Minister, at
Home with a copy of the Gazette.
Beef soared in the stock exchange

;}aS government member sold short

 

and the oppositions bought in.

MARITIMES WATCH CRISIS

In the Maritimes the situation
was watched closely. In the Valley a prominent grower said morosely that no one at Ottawa “gave
a damn” about the apples. It was
better to be investigated for Combining (or Permuting) than to be
ignored altogether. When asked
for statements, Maritime members
reiterated the fundamental principles of the Great Liberal Party.
“Prime Minister knows what’s best
for us,” said one member.

Daily Smile

Dr. Z. Puce

The many friends of Dr. Zacharia Puce will learn with regret
that he passed away at his home
yesterday following a severe attack
of gout. The Dr.devoted his long
and useful life to the fight against
socialised medicine. The funeral
will take place at his home tomorrow at 2.30 p.m.

 

 
a ©

- For the cause that lacks existence
From the Editor's desistence, :
For the suckers in the distance
iA And anything else that will increase our circulation.

we VA YAS

" my Daily. Monopoly is published daily except the Lord’s Day by The Daily MonS54 Argyle Street, Halifax, Canada. The subscription rate by mail anywhere in the
is: £1, 5s, 6d per year. United States one tourist extra, Address subscriptions to
‘ion Manager, The Daily Monopoly, Halifax. Telephoen. Authorized as second
mail. Post Office Dept., Ottawa. .

at

  
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
    
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
   

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 238, 1950

NEVER LET IT BE SAID

* walwant to be fair. The C.N.R. isn’t really-so bad,
ao e@ ole it won’t buy our Sydney coal. We might as well
“ey face it; the stuff isn’t very good anyhow. And besides,
Tie much, much cheaper to curtail operations to the
Les pectic than pay the American exchange rate when
om theres’ a good excuse not to.

--~-‘We don’t want it said that R. C. Vaughan is a bad
nan. He just made a mistake, that’s all, and surely we
at the Maritimes are willing to walk to Montreal so Mr.
adghan won’t have to admit his error. Then, too, think
te of the hundreds of nice men he has working for him.
Why, just the other day the Winnipeg Free Press
said: “My, these railway men are so faithful” ... and
ve think so too. They push their puny little locomotives into the biggest snowdrifts, even though they have
as a cold, and their only reward is a little paycheck.
No, we just don’t want it said that the C.N.R. is all
wrong. We must remember that the coal industry isn’t
_ producing as much as it once did, and hasn’t found a
better way of burning coal in fifty years. That proves
they’re backward, and why should the C.N.R. and
Ottawa lh an industry that won’t help itself? Now,
we ask you... why?

WE WOULD

If most of us old folks in the Maritimes had our
lives to live over again, we would stay right here,
wouldn’t we? They why is it that all our young people
want to go where they can make more money? They
should realize that it’s much more fun to eat fish and
‘crab about Ottawa.

Only the other day our Premier proved that Nova
Scotia held limitless opportunities by saying “We are
prosperous’. And if we teach our youngsters to repeat
that often enough, why there’s no telling how low our
living standard can get.

Make no mistake about it... we are all in favour of
youth taking advantage of its opportunities, but we’re
sure there are all sorts of them here. And besides, our
circulation drops every time someone leaves.

TAKE A STAND

Some people just will not commit themselves. These
- hily-livered, yellow-bellied, equivocating, non-sensical
- mugwumps are afraid someone will disagree with them.
But we (brave us) are going to take a stand, and stick

to it.

We want to say here and now that we believe Nova
Scotia has absolutely the best climate of its kind. And
just to be consistent we won’t change that idea until
Ottawa changes the climate.

Lest anyone contradict us, we hasten to point to
Nova Scotia’s hay production. Last year we grew
2,594,436 tons of hay, and that ain’t money.

That just goes to show that no matter how much
hay we grow, we'll always have less money, because
some people insist on keeping horses.

Leider to The Edit |

Dear Sir,

 

 

As Foreigners See le

OH, TEMPORA! OH, MONTREAL
Statistics show that the average

   
  
   
   
    
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

This may or may not come as a
surprise to you, but one of the
most burning issues in Halifax is
the state of sandwiches at the Dalhousie Canteen.

It has been discovered that the
peanut butter sandwiches  outnumber the meat and cheese six
to one. This should not be! Is
this fair to the vast armies of
cows slaving in earnest labour producing meat (and cheese)? No!
Let us consider the cows’ attitude:
they must feel deeply slighted, for
we seem to prefer the impersonal
peanut to the very personal cheese
and meat. This, my friends, is the
obvious result of our mechanical
age. I feel compelled to raise my
- voice in protest,

As Omar Khayam (and several
lesser philosophers) have remarked “Eat, Drink, and be Merry”...
how can we do so with nothing but
peanut butter sandwiches to sustain us? Though peanut butter
may appeal to the bourgeoisie of
Dalhousie, the aristocrats know
that cheese (or meat) inspires the
soul. It is very probably the ple_ bian Commerce students or Engineers who are responsible for “the
_-—- superfluidity of peanut butter
Br * sandwiches; you, as editor of the
eis ©
mendous: influence on ‘Bekins
i on > as et

i
a =
a

fo es

a publication which has!

th ,

ie

conventional visitor stays in Toronto 4.5 days. The unconventional
go to Montreal and stay.—Ottawa
Journal.
Re oe ee
HOLIDAYS FOR 20,000,000
Some 20 million workers in Britain are now getting holidays with
pay, a fact which has brought
about a revolution in the holiday
industry. — U.K. Information Service. The other 14,000,000 voters
went Conservative, and too many
Labourites were Ronen tg.
%
FRACTIONS
A news story says that of 25
Canadian Rhodes scholars at Oxford “half are married”. As we
do not believe in fractional scholars we conclude that 12 are married, 12 unmarried, and your guess
is as good as ours about the last.
—Peterborough Saxaminer.
* Ba co
FREE DRINKS
The Principal of McGill University says universities in Canada
need $6,242,000 a year — that is
something over $90 per student per
year. — A Halifax Paper. What
happens to the rest of our fees?

 

opinion,
change.
-Hungrily yours,

Dr. H. B, Flatlee,

must bring about a

* é . 7
he i we 7 » ' :
4 Zi Q rai fi { ry. a . . © " i '
, ek i aaa Dasha wt! i
‘ is lee ee hae Ut! ae sr —; P a iva e =! j i <
is ag ESS Ee ee, 7" a as ni

SORRY L s

HELP BuT Louie

SAYS 175 Owly oF

One Romantic
Homicide

By ALICE McSNARL
THE STORY: Morganthorpe JonesWayne, an underprivileged young
millionaire’s only child had fallen
madly in love for Gertrude, his
father’s chauffeur’s kitchen maid.
She so far has scorned his attentions because of the uncrossable
cavern between them socially. One
morning Morgy’s father woke up
dead with a pistol with seven
empty cartridges in it lying by his
body and a half-empty glass of
deadly poison on the dresser by
his bed. The doctor tells everyone
that the deceased died from a
heart attack, but Morganthorpe is
suspicious and turns in his moment
of need to Gertrude. Gertrude
agrees with him that there is suspicion of foul play and they call
the police who agree with the doctor that the poor man died of a
heart attack. Despairing of help
from the authorities they turn to
Sam Shovel, a private detective.
Shovel decides to attend the
funeral and, as the bullet-ridden
body is lowered into the grave he
hears a groan from the coffin and
stops the funeral. The old man is
revived but can remember nothing
of what has happened. Sam is
still suspicious and decides to stick
around.

CHAPTER 178

Sam walked nonchalantly into
the library and pretended to look
at the rare volumes on the book
shelves. In reality he was looking
for a clue. Any clue would do; he
was clueless. Suddenly he heard a
noise from behind him and quickly
whirled to see the closet door closing. With a flash of genius-like
inspiration he realized that someone was in the closet. Hearing a
step in the corridor outside he
swiftly ran to the door of the
closet and turned the key in the
lock. No sooner had he resumed
his place before the books when
Jones-Wayne Sr. entered the room,
hobbling along on crutches. Sam
whirled around to confront the
aged man. “Aha!” he said,

“Aha?” queried the old man in a
tremulous quiver.

“Aha!!” repeated Sam in a firm
voice,

Knowing when he was beaten
the old man limped slowly from
the room.

Wiping the perspiration from his
brow caused by ‘his narrow escape
Sam resumed his search for clues.
Putting the irritating rattling and
knoeking coming from the direction of the locked closet out of his
mind Sam turned his attention to
a general survey of the room. A
cold chill ran down his back and he
realized that the window was open.
‘ Crossing over to the open casement he looked out and saw a dark
blur. It was Ching-Gow-Nin, the
alley cat. He was carrying something. “TI smell a rat” said Sam to
himself, (es he continued)

- i
y * an
oC
Wy vee 2! im ‘TT 4 D
. ¥ * Fad
ee a t

=

) e
ers
Yb

Edgar I. Guess

I eontend one sex is plenty,

And Man made his first mistake
When Adam ate the apple

’Neath the watchful eye of Snake.
What a happy race of men we'd be

You can at once perceive,

If, while Adam munched the apple, |

Mr. Snake had eaten Eve.

We had no female troubles
And our chivalry was laggin’

Till St. George took matters over)

And went and killed a dragon.
O foolish man! Did’st not perceive
To what thy valor led.
We'd have no worries had the
Dragon killed St. George instead.

This land of ours was undefiled
By common female stock,

Till the good old Pilgrim Fathers
Landed on the Plymouth Rock.
For they brought some women

with them.
O! How trivial all our brothers,
If the good old Plymouth Rock
Had landed on the Pilgrim
Fathers.

 

 

une

%
ae

a
. <2 see

)ATLY - MO} NOPOLY
Thetght 1 Little bata! |

(Continued from page one)

the facts reveal, that-the trouble
was discovered which led to the
legal battle. Officials on both sides
immediately saw that the truck
was one half on each campus, and
there was three hundred cases of
White Cow left in the truck NOT
OPEN. They drly remarked that
the Dul-Rex agreement did not
cover the situation. Later, after a
prolonged argument their spirits
dampened by the difficulty the officials decided to let the Supreme
Court decide in whose jurisdiction
the cases had fallen.

In summing up their respective
positions the consuls for each side
pleaded that for the sake of fairness one side should get the booze,
and the other side the useless truck
and the dead driver, good for lab
purposes. Each suggested that his
client deserved the booze, just for
the record.

George P. Sharpie, V.O. solicitor
for Dal, maintained that although
the truck had landed on both properties, his clients was entitled to
the goods under salvage rules,
after all it was the Dull track team
which got there first. Further
(Continued on page three)

  

or we ae ee |
CIGARETTE

 

Resting Is More Restful
When You Add Coca-Cola

CLA

‘Coke’

Ask for it either way ... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

 

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

 

 

 

He
i
hee

   

 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

  

ees

Shown above is Mr. Jeke Trash-Trasher (left) City Sanitation
Chief, presenting a beautiful wreath to Oswald Dump, 87, veteran of
80 years sterling service on the heap.

 
  
   

 

   
  

Dump Gets Grand Garbage Award, to
Retire and Paint Scenic Landscape

Today was a memorable day in
the life of Oswald Dump, age 87,
when went straight from his baby
carriage to the city sanitation
wagons in 1870. Oswald has completed eighty years of sterling service with the Department and received the Grand Garbage Award
from Zeke Trash-Thrasher, City
Sanitation Engineer. The award
is a beautifully wrought wreath of
invaluable wire garbage-can handles carefully selected from the
county archives.

Oswald broke into great big
tears after receiving the award,
and when he recovered, he gave a
brief thank-you address, in which
he recalled many memorable incidents in his wastefull career.
~ When he began at the age of
seven, Mr. Dump was a promising
Second Tosser. Normally promotion to First Tosser takes 32
years, but even with a slight impediment of speech—he began to
talk on his twenty-seventh birthday—Mr. Dump was promoted to
First Tosser at 38 years of age.

When ‘Mr. Dump’s best friend,
Oswald O’Dump was killed in 1917
valiently trying to save his dump
wagon from the explosion of the
Mont Blanc, Oswald, covered with
potato peels, dragged O’Dump
from the inferno. For his bravery
Oswald was elevated to top man
on the heap. He has retained his
position of distinct until his retirement today.

Mr. Dump told your reporter
that he intends to live peacefully
at his cottage on the Lady Hammond Road, painting oils of the
picturesque landscape.

WANT ADS

LOST—A dog named Peetah.
Last seen in the vicinity of Dullhousie at the much publicised accident. May be recognized immediately by the fact that he is always
running after his tail.

WANTED —A car. Preferably
one with an engine, Would like it
to include a spare tire, radio, and
a licence. Will be satisfied to get
body, engine, and ownership.

WANTED—A Wife. One that
can cook, sew, and work. Will be
satisfied if she cannot cook, sew or
work, provided she has a million,
has blond hair, and likes to travel,
alone.

Tight Little Campus—

Continued from page two)
more, Dullhousie has three times,
at least, as many channels through
which to pass the stuff, whereas
no one at Dull can handle an old
truck except perhaps Ace Faralong who at present is too busy.
Lastly Mr. Sharpie argued that although the dog Pee Tah belong to
the defendants the stone which was
the ultimate cause of the accident
was placed in its position by his
clients (originally to trip Rex
stoodents).

Joseph B. Legalbeagle B.O.L.S.
replied that the plaintiffs claims
were groundless as there was no
BE icoffee involved. Said M® Legalai | (Continued on page four)

a ace 7

 
 

 

  
     
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
    
 
 
   
   
    
    
 
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

 

Duggan Clawed
To Death by Rat

PUGWASH, Feb. 28—

Ignatius Dugan, 92, was killed
today in a tragic accident. He was
clawed to death by his pet white
mouse when he accidentally stepped on its tail. Internment will

_ take place at 2:00 p.m. tomorrow.

T pyt that
_pROrTSSIONA
into yout

  
  
    
  
   
    

 

    
  
 
  
   

  
    

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
    
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  

 

   
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
        

       
   
  

of

   
   

  

MADE IN CANADA

_ Mf VENUS PENCIL CO. LTD.
~ TORONTO, ONT.

x. ed
% f Bay ’

     
 
  

 
 
  
  

i ims
iy ali: ce

" vt
—¥ '
(fo

 

 

i
[ re

Ex-Mayor Is
Suspicious of
Red Herrings

There has been dirty work afoot
in Dartmouth Town of late, and
the town police force (both of
them have been very co-operative)
have detected a fishy smell. Major
Clod Boris says that this odor
can be attributed to codfish now
being unloaded in Halifax but
Southpaw very firmly states that
some Red Herrings are involved in
the scandal.

We contacted Captain Paul
Poople of the Intelligence Digest
and questioned him about this possibility. Poople was unwilling to
commit himself, but said that there
was a distinct possibility of BolSshevick interference. Southpaw
thinks a few foul balls were
thrown in the election, about one
thousand of them to be exact, and
by bad umpiring, the bases were
loaded.

Accusations of Red activities, of
course, are very serious allegations
and should only be made by Lilywhiters. There are terrible implications arising out of this scandal.
It may even be found that the
new councilmen wear red flannels.
Stanfields would never stand for
this and a revolution may be the
outcome. But if Southpaw has his
way the whole world may be in for
a terrible shock.

According to Southpaw eleven
thousand votes materialized out of
a possible ten thousand, which
goes to show that perhaps Kinsey
was wrong. Dr. Albert Einstein
and Dr. Oppenheimer have kept
silent on the situation, but President Truman in a special message
intimated that the whole atomic
theory may be exploded by the
Dartmouth election. This would end
Russo-American race for the HBomb which would throw thousands of people out of work.

If ex-mayor Southpaw persists
in his stand he may bring about
the greatest unemployment crisis
the world has yet faced. Federal

 

Swish Skaters
Swish Skating Stars Arrive in Halifax aboard Liner
Aquamania—Lavender and Katrinka Lindberger, beautious
Skating twins from Swisherland, arrived today to appear in
the Licycles at the Bluenose Forum tomorrow evening. Sunday morning they will depart aboard the Scotian and hope to

arrive in Montreal sometime in April.

Revolutionary New Discovery Helps
English Student Graduate Hurriedly

Roaring Game

Tiddly -Winks
Played Feb. 28

HOGWASH, Feb. 28—

The high flying Musquodobit
Red Wings shellacked the Jeddore
Sewing ~Circle 58-27 in a hard
fought game of tiddly-winks last
night at the Ecum Secum Arena.
Hevvin only knows why Hogwash
is interested.

 

mediator Circero Spongebath paid
an emergency visit to John L.
Lewis to convince that great man
to come to Dartmouth, try to
out-talk Southpaw. Very little
hope is held for the situation, because neither side will consent to
a new election, fearing that the
irate electors may riot. The probe
has now dragged most of Bedford
Basin, and we will bring you a
further report on the findings tomorrow.

 

Sidewalk Interviews... .

 

 

Who, in your opinion is the Man of the Millenium?

MRS. MABEL MOUSETRAP —
housewife: — “King James I of
England. After all, he wrote the
Bible. He taught the people how
to improve the brands of sheep so
that a great many more legs of
mutton could be got off a sheep
than ever before. As there was
more meat, there were more people
to eat it, and the population became a great deal larger. He really
did his bit to increase the population.”

ALFRED APPLEKNOCKER
Student at Acadia University: —
“Abraham Lincoln, positively. He
was responsible for the emasculation of the slaves. Also, he wrote
the Gettysburg Address while
travelling from Washington to
Gettysburg on the back of an envelope. He might have become
Prime Minister of England had he
not been shot by one of the actors
in a moving picture show, a man
named Booth Tarkington.”

FERDINAND FLYSWATTER —
Halifax Police Farce: — “Julius
Caesar. He warned the Romans to
“Beware the Brides of March”, and
won his greatest victory when he
crossed the Rubiyat. Then he was
stabbed to death and the worst
blow fell when he saw his friend
Brutus among the traitors. That
is why he gasped, with his dying
breath, “Tee Hee, Brute”.

J. PIERPONT PUFF — Match
Lighter at Incincrator:—‘William

Fara Ste dene 4
ules eh lle vs Wh ‘ >
POEMS jaa 5 gt Les

Shakespeare. Many of his works
have been dramatized. I think his
best character was Skylark in the
Merchant of Venus. He also wrote
King Leer and Twelve Nights in a
Bar Room,”

 

Social News

Mrs. and Mr. I, Drinka Lot entertained last Saturday night at a
coming out party for their daughter Groga, who will be 21 on the
29 of Feb., 1952. As her birthday
comes only every four years, they
wished to have her “‘come-out’”’ before she enters the Old Maid’s
home.

 

The members of the In-EveryNight Club held their annual meeting at the home of the President,
Miss Clelpatra Moumberquette.
The secretary, Miss Myrtle Snodgrass spoke on “Scientific Snagging” and “Nabbing Men _ in
Crowded Trollies”.

 

The Ladies’ Aid of the Lost Cat
Society will meet on Friday in
their club rooms. Mrs. JJJJ Catpal the III, will read a paper on
“Canary Birds, in their Natural
Habitation, the Cage.”’.

 

Mrs. Elmer Uppington entertained at a shower for Miss Agnes
Assualt on Saturday. Miss Assualt
hopes to be married to Percival

i
of 34 ‘yea pet eee cdl +

© A discove

ry which may have farreaching effects in the fields of sociology, politics, and business was
made yesterday at Dalhousie University.

The English II class convened at
12:00, and settled down immediately. Obviously they were in a
sleepy mood, induced by the high
Spring temperatures Halifax has
recently enjoyed. It was 22 degrees
outside.

Professor Bendit was calling the
roll, and during that time the
great Professor’s mind must have
been working at a_ pace never before accomplished by man.

As the [Professor called each
name someone answered “Here”,
until the name of Johnson was
called. He called the name again,
Silence. Then the Professor raised his eyes and, lookingly pierceingly at the class, said:

- “My word, hasn’t Johnson any
friends here?”

The class was thrown into turmoil, The reawakened students
saw visions of vast empires crumbling in the dust, and great
spasms of unemployment. RepreSsenative governments would collapse; hundreds who earned their
living from shouting “Here” for
absentees would be thrown out of
work. Furthermore, they would no
longer have a place to sleep.

When the class returned from
Turmoil, which is about sixty miles
out of Halifax, they went immeddiately to the police, asking that
the great Professor be jailed, and
his discovery squelched. But the
police done right, and refused.
They got in touch with his newspaper, and gave us the story.

When university authorities were
contacted last night, they said they
were considering putting Professor
Bendit in the cornerstone of the
new Arts Building, as a reward for
his work. They will give Johnson
credit for his assistance in the
matter by putting him through college immediately.

 

lvanovitchWins
Hair Splitting
Championship

DOGWASH, Feb. 28—

Patrick Ivanovitch last night
won the world championship in
hair splitting. Splitting a hair eight
times. he. outlasted. the. former
champ, Ivan Patrick, who collapsed
from fatigue on the seventh split.
The grand prize, a moustache cup,
was donated by Skinney’s Ltd., of
Halifax.

 

Bentt Brainne on Wednesday next.
As she has been jilted at the altar
six times already, her friends wish
her every success in the attempt.
   
    
   
    
   
  
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
 

  

Appointed — Percy Prune, Pep_ perell Street, who was this week
appointed Chairman of the Smog
‘Dispersal Commission is well
known in Halifax. He previously
served in Dorchester and Kingston
as a member of the Committee to
Abolish Penal Servitude in Canada.
_ Mr, Prune claims that it will be
possible to see Dartmouth on a
clear day when his plan is put into
«Operation.
Short Sentence — Arthur Cesspool of Ecum Secum was sentenced to fifteen years in city prison
after he pleaded guilty to a charge
of expectorating on a city sidewalk.
“T believe it’s a case where a short
sentence will suffice,” Magistrate
English said in imposing maximum
sentence.
Painfully Injured — Keith Dow
was painfully injured yesterday
when he fell while ascending the
steps of a local hostelry, the Harbor Horse. He is now recuperating at Rock Head Rest. Mr. Dow
locally known as “Hops” will be
remembered for his scintillating
play with the Hydrostone Cribbage
Club.

Cost of Bridge—The local Council of East Chezzetcook last night
agreed to pay one tenth of the
cost of the new bridge to span
Dartmouth Harbor. The council
said there was no truth in the
ie rumor that pedestrians would be
ea supplied with bicycles with which
to eross the new span.

Permit Refused—The application
‘ of Jesse Holdup for a permit to
i ; open a tavern on Robie Street was
‘aes refused by the City Council yes4 terday. The nearness of the pro, posed site to the City Field would
hamper the work of City employees
i said the Council. Mayor Mac| Ginley was emphatic in his re| fusal despite the insistence of Col.
O’Sea. :

| Glace Bay Man
| Sets New Record

Another Sydney record has been
eclipsed by a citizen of Senator’s
Corner. The former record held
by a Sydneyite of passing his
motor vehicle over a body three
times was broken here tonight
when Dennis O’Toole made seven
passes over the body of James
Jam. No inquest wil be made as
Mr. Jam was in a jam with the
local constabulary over alleged
bootleg coal dealings and was said
to favor the Sydney Millionaires in
the coming playoffs. Sydney residents bitterly resent this loss of
their claim to fame.

ee ee,
*

igs ee
ie a
Ar it

| Know Your Maritimers

Join the thousands of men who are

ae Vitae mae
ae a ty ee ee
a <a al ret A
tet ee ee ee
: | :
5

(Pea Ty oF

   

 

oF —— Tinea?
: a a ‘ees Lh feo
<. vit G4 
“ * . ~!

ate | =

 
   

ee
oo

 

Prize for the correct answer is 34, miles of C.N.R. track

and one lump of coal.

 

RUSSIA AND CHINA—

(Continued from page one)

STUDENT SLIPS—

(Continued from page one)

Foreign Minister was busy recup-;ter to the step, and Lemon’s foot

erating from the Colombo Conference, and made no comment, except
to send out for aspirin. ,
Maritime members were united
in their assurances that the treaty
would have no adverse effect on
Maritime markets. “Our apples
will still be safe,” one said.

 

LIMIES LIKE—

(Continued from page one)
ful raids on one another’s headquarters, to ease the tension. Asa
result, new by-elections will be held
in some twenty ridings throughout
the country, no matter who wins.
In another forty-six ridings, only
Liberals will be table to take office.

Further election results will be
printed as soon as the rowboat
brings them,

NOTICE

Masters and Education students
who do not wish to pay for new
year book photos, may make arrangements to have old ones used
by calling Dodge before Wednesday, or a member of the Committee before Monday. In this way,
the photos will cost only 50c.

The Eastern Trust Company

RELIABILITY ... INTEGRITY ... PROTECTION
For over 50 years expert administrators of
Funds, Securities and Estates

Branches in six
Eastern Provinces

HEAD OFFICE: 184 HOLLIS STREET
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

  

providing for financial security when
their working days are over through
Retirement Income Policies with...

   
      

YOU'LL FIND YOUR LOCAL
oa tS) a eB EAT

yA IZLE

landed on it.

Two hours later, when rescuers
arrived, Lemon had not fully recovered from his slide down the steps
on his back, with his head bumping
on each one, But he was still game,
and as the sun’s dying rays tinted
the scene with fire, he was ready
again.

He was sure that he could do it
this time. In a great display of
sheer bravado, he said to your reporter as he left “I’ll beat it now
or bust a shoestring”’.

Again Lemon embarked amid
mad cheers, and cautiously approached the first step. Everyone
watched breathlessly as he crept
over it, and a wave of applause
rose when he finally stood triumphantly below.

But the jubilant crowd turned
into statue-like shapes as they
realized that their applause had
rattled Lemon, and saw him slip,
recover, and slip again. Not a man
moved, not a woman spoke, not a
leaf fluttered, as Lemon grabbed
frantically for the rail.

When stretchers-bearers reached
the stricken man, they found he
had broken his back. They rushed
him immediately to the Victoria
Colonel Hospital, after opening his
clenched fists, and tucking the picture of his mother safely away in
his breast pocket.

OXFORD!

“LOOK FOR THE SILVER
LINING”

and
“THE LUCKY STIFF”

Thurs, - Fri, - Sat.

“THE INSPECTOR GENERAL”
and
“JOHNNY ALLEGRO”

CASINO

Now Showing

“Tell It To The
Judge”

ROSALIND RUSSELL
ROBERT CUMMINGS

 

 

COMING SAT.
“HOLIDAY AFFAIR”

 

a — . =

ae es Paap ree so ke

THE DAILY MONOPOLY

SNORT ABOUT SPORT
by AL BICKERSOME

LETTER FROM DISGRUNTLED FAN

Yesterday this corner received a letter from an obviously biased
hockey fan criticizing my selection of an All Star Big Four team.

The squad, as you undoubtedly remember, was as follows: Goal—
Rudy McLevy; St. Mary’s: Defence—Walnuts McWalkin; St. Mary’s,
and Bertrand Pilfer; St. Mary’s: Forwards—Willie Hammonrye, St.
Mary’s; Rocky Shoulderblade, St. Mary’s; and little Muckle Shmuckle,
St. Mary’s. Coach—Barty Marry, St. Mary’s; Mascot—Knucker Burns,
St. ‘Mary’s.

Now as any fool can plainly see, this is a well balanced team. In
fact, it is so well balanced that it is liable to topple at any moment.
But that is beside the point. Since I am a sports writer, and my critic
is merely a fan, I need not give any explanations for my team. I must
point out that the Monopoly has a circulation of 100,000 daily, some of
it paid, so I do not intend to stand for any more of this bickering. |
hadn’t expected to receive an epistle containing such violent language,
such bitter sentiments, or such wild accusations. The letter is as follows.

Dear Bickersome,

Your selections stinks.

     

 

Disgruntled Fan
BIG SURPRISE FOR CRIBBAGE LOVERS

Well, all you red-blooded fans, here is the surprise you have been
waiting for. From now on, instead of only three complete columns on
the sport page, our regular column, “Bowling Bits From the Hydrostone Cribbage Tournament” will be given SIX whole columns. The
remainder of the page, as usual, wil be covered with interesting bits of
news sponsored by Stetson Hats, Brylereem, Aqua Velva and various
other sporting concerns. I might add that I have always worn a hat
ever since my very good friend Senator Bilbo said to me, complimenting me on my wide and varied knowledge (on the occasion of my visit
to Chatanooga in 1904 to cover the olympic frog-eating contest) “Bickersome—You have a swelled head.” I consider it one of my proudest
moments.

LET US ABOLISH BLOOD SPORTS

All over the world, people are rising to protest the continued use
of blood sports. Never one to climb off the band-wagon, I rise with
them. In the Monopoly-sponsored Africville Tiddly-Winks Turnament
held some three months ago in a local athletic club, one of the players
accidently dislodged a carelessly placed poker chip from a shelf near his
elbow. Panic broke out as the monster of destruction, teetered and
then plunged down among the helpless players seated on the floor below. Dealing death and destruction as it went, (two of our leading athletes were removed to the hospital. One was found to be suffering from
acute indigestion and was later released.) the jukkernot brought
screams of terror from the spectators until it finally eame to rest on
the floor some three feet below.

It is this sort of thing that calls me to rise fearlessly once again in
the interests of sport. As my very good friend Herbert Hoover remarked to me (on the occasion of my 1901 visit to San Antonio to participate in the famous Turn-of-the-Century Crab Race) “Bickersome—
You are an imbecile.” As long as there are imbeciles in this world,
truth will not vanish from the face of the earth.

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price

for Young Men eit

 

 

Tight Little Campus—

(Continued from page three)

beagle, “They are trying to crowd
my client out as they have done
in the athletic field. Give them an
ounce and they want a car load.”
In conclusion he denied the allegation that the Dull boys had gotten
there first. “Would you have this
court believe that any one could
beat a theologue to such an accident ?”

Later authorities at both institutions announced that proceedings
would be taken against those who
had gotten there first. It is suspected that some of it is still being
consumed as this paper goes to
press,

  
   
      

ANY

J

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

Dial 3-8539

Aa

in

My» I
Pull
ff ful) f |

"4
ij
ty
if

94 Prince St. 
 

| They’re Popular

Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Be sure the famous Birks
Blue Box encloses your

 

choice.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

7 Mis 7 i

 
