    
  
   
     
     

2 Bt | ames’ BALL

ee

hy
rT

=
a a

*

   
  
  
   
     

’ ie 7p posite to last year’s committee was

  

- INGYM
FRIDAY
NIGHT

 

America’s Oldest College Paper

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

MILLIONAIRES’ BALL
IN GYM
FRIDAY
NIGHT

   
    
   
   
   

 

HALIFAX, N. S., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1950

Vol. LXXXII

No. 27

 

 

 

Mareh 138,

Suggests Purchase of
Micro-Film Machine

A plan which would considerably
reduce library expenses and con- |
serve storage space is now under)

Newman Club Ball
consideration. The executive of the |
Graduate Studies Society has ap- df b
iversi authorities | | Fri ay, Fe ruary 10

proached University

with regard to the purchase of a} Once upon a time there was a|
micro-film machine, which would gril named Cinderella who went to|
allow students in the more advanc-| 4 ball and lost a glass slipper and
ed classes to study photographic| ended up marrying a prince. Such

reproductions of rare volumes and| things are not predicted for those
of unique documents which would! who are going to attend the New
aspired to be librarian.

1) "oe a ea BX ny

Applications for Summer Seminar
To Be Received by I.S.S. Committee

The Dalhousie committee of the International Students

Service will be accepting applications from students wishing
to attend the 1950 summer seminar from February 8th to the
24th. The application forms may be obtained from the reg
istrar’s office and when filled out should be returned to room |

18, the Arts building before the closing date. All applications

should be accompanied by three letters of recommendation.

tt This year’s seminar will be held
|in France, A large grant from the

Students Asked fo Canadian Council for Reconstrue
‘tion through UNESCO plus don
 

 

ations from private individuals and

Sign Over Caution foundations makes these seminars
possible. Co-ordinated with these
Deposits to I.S.S.

financing efforts the governments
of the various provinces usually

The annual campaign for funds
by the Dalhousie committee of the

grant sufficient funds to cover the
return transportation costs of the
International Students Service

selected delegates.

which began last Wednesday had The delegates from Dalhousie
cleared the $500.00 mark yesterday | will be selected by a committee

comprised of Dean G. E. Wilson of
the Faculty of Arts and Science;
Dr. H. L. Seammell, Registrar of
the University; Prof. M. 0. Morgan, ISS advisor from the faculty.
All applicants will -be required to
have interviews with the members
of the committee. Announcement
of the selections will be made before the first of March, in fairness
to those who must plan their summers in advance.

All applicants for the seminar
must be returning to Dalhousie
next year; should have two or more
years college at the time of the
seminar, speak passable French
while additional languages are desirable.

morning with only a small portion
of the possible subscribers heard
from.

Student subscriptions by means
of signed over caution deposits are
in the lead’as a source of money
with checks from alumni a close
second. In order to facilitate collection of signatures for the deposition of caution deposits to the
committee, booths will be set up in
various buildings at Forest and
Studley where students who have
mislaid or lost their cards may sig’
a group form.

A telephone and personal contact service is being organized by
the committee who will contact all
students before the end of the campaign. To those students who have
no desire to subscribe to the campaign, the committee chairman
would like those students to mail
in their cards stating why they do
not wish to contribute to the drive.

Students are reminded that the
average rebate on the caution de
STOP PRESS

(Special CUP Telegram to the Gazette)

Gateway in hot water again. We
were notified this morning that
facilities of University print shop
would not be available to the Gateway until further notice. Action
comes presumably from special Engineers’ Edition published Tuesday,
Jan. 3lst. Will keep you posted.

 ATHENAEUM
(Acadia)

after ane eg been

at ay

     

 

(4
ee 1s oy
i tag”

es Oo CO ose

 

 

not be available to them otherwise. |

There are two different means of
reproducing books by photographic |
methods. One of these is micro-|
film, which closely resembles mov- |
ing-picture film. The other is
micro-card.
reduced
thirty
are printed on a single

reproductions of about
card,

The great advantages of ioe
these systems is that there is
great economy in both space os
storage cost. The storage space

required for micro-cards is about |

one/forty-seventh of that required
for the original books,
cost is about one-seventh. Microfilm is even cheaper, though the
storage space required is slightly
larger,

Another great advantage of
micro-film is that anything ever
written can be-~obtained, for over
100 libraries in North America can
supply micro-film of books and
documents in their files on demand.
The Library of Congress is at
present ~undertaking the photographic reproductions of all its
documents and these can now be
obtained at about 6e per foot of
film.

Not only does this method make
available to scholars anywhere
everything ever printed but the
costs are also reduced. A library
ean subscribe to a periodical and
receive each issue as it appears,
but does not have to save them,
for at the end of the year the publishing company will send the
micro-film or micro-card reproductions of the year’s issues. Thus
the library will have files of the
complete year for merely the cost
of the micro-cards. This expense
will amount to about the same as
that of binding the separate issues.
The greatest saving will be in the
amount saved in storage space, for
the bound edition would take up
almost fifty times that occupied by
the micro-card copy.

Both these methods require a
large machine to enlarge and project the photographic copies for
reading purposes. These machines
range in value from about $150 to
over $600, but the large initial cost
should soon be made up by the
great saving in storage costs.

 

In this system greatly |

pages of the original book |

while the |

man Club Ball, for the simple rea|sons that no normal girl would be
caught dancing in glass slippers in
'this modern day, and also that
\there are no princes, native-born,
in Canada.

But you can become a Cinderella
‘for one evening by attending the
Ball. Let your Prince Charming
/escort you to the Bedford Room of
the Nova Seotian Hotel, on Friday,
| February 10. Be sure to tell him
| that the fairy godmother will supiply the flowers, —not he. Eddie
Jensen will supply the musie for
the occasion, and tickets may be
obtained from Club members or at
the door, for only $3.00.

 

Dal vs UNB to Commence
Intercollegiate Debates

The firts inter-collegiate debates
of the term will be held Friday and
Saturday nights in the Engineering
Room at 8 P.M.

The first debate will be between
Dalhousie and the University of
New Brunswick, the ‘topic being
“Resolved that Canada _ should
adopt immediately a system of universal military training.” The Dalhousie team will be composed of
Alf Harris and Al Baccardax, debating the affirmative of the resolution.

The second
Sat. evening,

 

to be held
see Dalhousie
and Pine Hill debating the topic
“Resolved that the C.B.C. has been
a detriment to the development of
Canadian radio”, Dick Miller and
Ron MacDonald will represent Dal.

debate,
will

invited
to attend these two interesting debates to be held in the Engineering
Common Room at 8 P.M, Friday
and Saturday. Refreshments

Every one interested is

 

Graduates — All those students
expecting to graduate this year are
requested to write concise (50
word) write-ups to accompany
their photographs in the 1950
Pharos. These should be placed in
a box outside the Gazette Office

and must be in before Feb. 15.

erved
Write-Ups for Pharos

 

 

THIRD ANNUAL D-DAY TO BE HELD
OVER CICH MONDAY, MARCH 13th

Preparations Under Direction of Seven
Man Planning Committee; Auditions to Be
Held on Friday for Announcing Staff

; : 1950, will be D-Day on C.J.C.H. Final plans
are being rawn up and it looks like the old college spirit has
Graduate Study Group | returned to the campus. At a meeting held last Friday at the
Gazette Office, sixteen students were present to give their
‘support to D-Day. Almost all were interested, particularly in
the announcing end of the day,

but one young lady has
At the meeting, Bruce Lock
~_————————_ © wood, addressed the gathering con
cerning the duties each one would
have to perform, if he or she, were
chosen to be a part of the D-Day
organization. Two students present had radio experience before,
and others were at least one time
radio speakers. A Planning Committee was appointed and consists
of: Chairman: Bruce Lockwood,
members: Red Lampert, Maurice
Foisy, Joanne Everett, Jim Peach,
lan MacDermaid and Jim Smith.
There wil be another meeting of
the committee Tuesday at 1.30 in
the Gazette Office, at which time,
program suggestions will be aired.

Auditions for D-Day will be held
next Friday afternoon, beginning
at 1.30. The exact place will be
announced on a poster to be placed
in the Arts Building. All students
are eligible to have an audition and
if you think you ean fit in on
D-Day, your presence is requested
on Friday. Besides* the valuable
experience which will be gained, it
will be a chance to get an inside
view of the Halifax radio situation.

D-Day has been a great tradition
in the past and with the erystal
clear voices of some Dalhousians,
there is no reason why D-Day 1950
can not be just as great as it
should be. On the day, many varied programs are aired. These
will consist of the regular C.J.C.H.
programs with Dalhousie shows instituted as much as possible. Norm
Riley’s “Penthouse Party” will be
shared by two Dal announcers as
will. numerous other shows
throughout the day. D-Day auditions will tell the story, so be on
hand.

 

Millionaires Ball
Takes Place Friday

Next Friday will see one of the
year’s outstanding social events in
the Millionaires’ Ball. The main
event will be, as in previous years,
the selection of Dalhousie’s sweater queen. There will also be a
sweater boy of the year. Both will
receive appropriate prizes.

These potential millionaires will
prove to be terrific hosts, as they
have in the past. A re-styled Les
Single aggregation will present
langorous rhythms in keeping with
the spirit of the event. Plans for
the decorations have not been divulged by the Committee, except
to say that it will be quite different.

Sweaters will be the order of
dress for all. Tickets are on advance sale from O’Brien in the
Gym, and from any commerce man
on the Campus. Tariff is the
usual $1.25.

jek hoe oe +S A Se ee

 

 

 
, ICA'S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
it er ¢ Canadian ‘University Press
a we ek b: the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
nior ex of are not necessarily those of the
if . For subs sone write Business Manager,
n nls Gazette, ‘Halifax, 1
‘ Sk i Pe rlaas Bball’. A wee

A iF D ‘
hi Amy
Boe eye nt ses)
A, a v ;
;

Har N a So acca sPla Wi -Aib/ isa) Av @e (9, ©. Sim 4.9 5/6 Advertising Manager
diggin | ffice Manager
Do BOM sp wid evgnivles be cak sun ca derecadecsgeses
te

C.U.P. Editor
EDITORIAL STAFF

ACLS a ae Ree eee as ae 2 Te ae ek 8 4 @ 6 o's 46

doceusecsseee. News Editors
...Feature Editor

RP Ves erie es at
De ease (eerntvibent i: Sports Editors
yters.........Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
» Writers. .....Judy McKeen, Barbara MeGeoch, Eliphal Nichols
rs—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob MclInnes,| .
} Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,

Daa Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

muere Dan Soberman
| Dave Nicholson, Stu Wallace, Beatrice Meetvonals

Seats SENS oleae iba wie bea 6 Lucy Calp
Utara a Gloria Horne, Rona Yess

No. 27

Oi ees neicences

fo ee ers

ose eer eeen anne

pe FEBRUARY 7, 1950

# aes Glee Club would be. fully justified in disconinuing its Students’ Nights.

i ri To have several months’ difficult, continuous, and
pedal _ emotional work jeered at by those who make no attempt
to understand it is disheartening, to say the least. That
ai Sis 1appened- last Thursday night. A few, unwilling to let

ou 1eir infantile minds be caught by the emotion stem
Ks ming from the stage, chose instead to spoil it for others.

_ They tried to turn a Shakesparean tragedy into a farce.
saat ‘hey almost stopped the play.
Student apathy is one thing . . . active destruction
another. Should the emotion in a play fail to effect
certain members of the audience, that is only personal
taste. But there is no cause for transmuting apathy
ie into destruction.

«Remedies for such misdemeanours are difficult to
Paper | “suggest. To cut out students’-night altogether would be
to penalize the innocent with the guilty. But suspension
We a of Students’ Council cards or the levying of a fine is not
a too. much to ask for those who cannot live and let live.

iy ey are, after all, no better than criminals.

my position so that if he needed a
fall guy, he’d have one handy.

I wasn’t surprised when Moreira
refused my request that he attend
a conference with Burns. When
he found that work on the book
had been stopped he accused me of
sabotage (all I wanted was for the
students to get the kind of a book
they’d paid.for rather than a
hashed up Moreira version). He

1 ae - they gave tee reasons for
ts ‘not. allowing the book or their
at These were:

A could now tell him they’d taken
ever. (giving Moreira a chance to
_ reestablish his reputation which
peer have suffered as a result of
his outburst at the Forum blaming

% he administration for student

(3) "They maintained the pubPan had no confidence in me
Bi _ (their only worry was that Moreira
ies informed them he controlled

pa I left the meeting called Burns,
told. him the situation, got him to
insert the dedication in a section
MF Bie going ‘on the press and asked him
i What could be done about printing
i the book my way. He suggested a
| rt DT route in Halifax the following
on Bo day with Moreira, Lomas, and mya self as he was going to be here
‘i HaEy Rey

I then took the remaining photos
“ra been holding back for several
\ days to the engravers, explaining

- the situation to them.
~The next morning I had a coni esas with Burns during which I
ae learned HE HAD stopped work on
ap ils ‘the: book (Moreira version) penda ing: the results of the conference.
Wi ie ‘Then I had a two hour conference
me, with Dr. Kerr, during which I
ei Blas: learned he hadn’t been informed
eo Shen: my accident or any other rea
a]
|

Fe f ti Desi for the er delay. It was

informed me for the fourth time
that week that I was fired and for
the fourth time I asked him on
whose authority he was ‘acting,
knowing the Council knew nothing about it. I also told him I’d
consider myself Editor until the
Council fired me whereupon he
said if I wanted to be nasty he’d
get the Council to fire me that
night. Democracy? I relaxed
quite happily knowing that I’d
y|done everything possible to get
the students a good book, having
ascertained that by the time of the
meeting everything except the revised dummy (necessary because of
Moreira’s interference) would be in
Kentville,

At the meeting which took place

that evening the Council, the mem
bers, with few exceptions, were
openly hostile and not as interested in getting the people who’d
elected them a good book, as in
getting in a lick at me. Prominent
on this count were Milne, Sawyer,
Moreira and Hicks. I was refused
permission to interrupt Moreira on
questions of fact and he made more
misstatements in his talk than a
political speaker at election time.
After an hour’s debate Sawyer’s
motion that the Moreira version go
to press unaltered was withdrawn
and a compromise was reached.
This the above mentioned fought
bitterly. I volunteered to go to
Kentville at my own expense,
either alone or under supetvision
(some council members think I’m

dangerous) and do the THREE

|HOURS work necessary to finish

*|the book. This was refused. In;|stead I had to ‘spend three hours
telling Carol Wood and Lomas

tions what molly 80 in Heteeillers eben:

ille, fol- ene. in pb to begin work on |
"et pets ‘Cor Oo

Tuesday, Feb. 2, 1950.—To the
college on the hill, where I found
the actors all a-flutter, for they are
to present a new masque by Will
Shakespeare tonight. As none of
them would speak to me but only
quote lines and strut about, I left
them and descended to the basement, where the athletes were
lounging about in the baths in various states of nakedness. Miss May
Cooker did peek her head around
the door and modestly inquire if it
were proper for her to enter. She
was told that it was and did so.
Whereupon Oddfellow MacDonnie,
who had through some mischance
failed until too late to take the
proper precautions, not having
heard Miss Cooker, departed hastily in the direction of the Baths, it
being the nearest places of concealment, this to the merriment of
all present.

Home again, where I dined upon
a fat eapon and some fine sack
from the Indies.

This evening to the masque,
where I found many of the scholars from the college. I had expected this performance to be, like
most the students present, very
wretched and had, in anticipation,
brought with me some
eggs and a few apples much wearied by the passage of time. However, to my delight, I found the
play quite excellent and forget
completely to make use of the ammunition I had thought to bring
along; indeed if I had remembered
I would have had no occasion to
use it.

The actor who impressed me the
most was one portraying the villainous knave. I was most pleased
by this excellence and determined
to discover who he was. Consulting
a program I found the part to be
played by my old friend Drawee.
I looked again at the actor but
could discover no likeness to my
friend. It is said that an actor’s
excellence is determined by his
ability to conceal his own identity
beneath that of the person whom
he portrays. If this is so, then
Drawee is one of the best actors
I have even seen and he greatly
exceeds my expectations of him.

I was disgusted by the unruly
and puerile actions of certain of
the moronic groundlings in the audience, who did hoot and shout at
the actors and did thereby quite
disrupt the atmosphere of the play
and so to make it less enjoyable
to others. Did notice that they
disturbed even that great actor
Hairline, who with his long experience is not easily upset; and he
turned to them and told them to be
still, which many thought to be
part of the play. I do believe that
note should be taken of these persons and that in future they should
be excluded from all performances
of the sort, though shere lack of
scholastic ability will doubtless rid
us of them in due course of time.

A small flurry of excitement was
caused when the curtain covering
the stage occasioned to catch fire,
but the danger was soon over.
However, a small gap was left in
the curtain which, none but the
most acute, myself amongst them
of course, chanced to notice.

ed the same day, with student
work on the book complete.

The Council, after shouts from
Milne, Hicks and Moreira, that it
was necessary to fire me to keep
me from winning a moral victory
and to. give Moreira the Council
support McKinney was refused last
year as president, fired me. It is
interesting that they fired me as of
that evening, therefore in effect
not giving Moreira the support he

wanted since it wasn’t made retro
active.
One more word, patient readers.
I did my level best to persuade

elderly |.

> Say SCHWARTZ
and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

CASINO

COMING THURSDAY

“Mrs. Mike”

with
Dick POWELL and
Evelyn KEYES

Personal appearance of the or
iginal, wonderful, lovable Mrs.

Mike on our stage, Thursday.
2:50 and 8:55 p.m.

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“ON THE TOWN”
and
VENG

EXPORT

“CANADA’S FINEST
CIGARETTE

“BRIDE OF TANCE”

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“HOME OF THE BRAVE”
and
“ROUGHSHOD” :
They’re Popular

Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Dal Students-
A weleome awaits you at

Phinneys Limited

456 Barrington St.

Be sure the famous Birks
Blue Box
choice.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

‘Registered Jeweller,
Halifax, N. S.

encloses your

Where you will find a
complete Musie Service
and the finest

A.G.S.
Sports Equipment

DALHOUSIE. UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:

Bachelor 6f Nursing Sciencc

Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of Science

Diplomas in:

Hospital Pharmacy

Mining Geology

Music

Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry
The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE ae OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

‘The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diploma
Health Nursing, Teaching and A Acuisletestica mi

: ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS
Scholarships, each of a minimum value of 600.00
students applying for admission from High? lg ny

Colleges of the Maritime Province
of educational attainments, es, and awarded on the basis

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full info
ene eta een: mad aan

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

Education
Engineering
Engineering Physics
Food Technology

rmation as to fees,
. foment,

, a oe oe aS ale. ut la
* ae —
. ) A 
 
     

>

 
   
    
  
   
   
  
   

“Othello” Is Glee

Club’s

Scenes From “Othello”

Finest

To Date; Tracy And Hartling Star

During the past few years, the Glee Club has given Dalhousie a fine series of Shakes
pearean plays.
three earliest plays.

The “Merchant of Venice” “As You Like It’, and “Twelfth Night”, were the
Last year the Glee Club turned to tragedy in their production of

‘Macbeth’, and in spite of the many obstacles involved in the presentation of tragedy for
the first time, they gave a good performance. This year’s production of “Othello”, however,
marks the high water. mark in the Glee Club’s Shakespeare series.

In the production of amateur drama, it is always difficult to maintain a consistent

level of good acting throughout. th 5
ideal as is possible under existing conditions at Dalhousie.

In ‘Othello’, our dramatic group came as close to this

Last year’s production of

“Macbeth” hinged too much upon the performance of two or three persons, creating a wide
gap between them and the minor players. This year we had three groups of actors, supported by bit players who formed a fitting background for the major players. In addition, all
these plays of Shakspeare have been produced under the excellent direction of H. Leslie
Pigot, who can surely feel satisfied with this year’s performance.

In a sense, Mr. Pigot has built; ing going on about him. His physi
up a small stock company on this
campus, with several old hands
who can always be relied upon,
with new talent making itself apparent each year.

Now let’s take a look at individual performances, in terms of the
three groups I have mentioned
above. The two most outstanding
roles were those of George Tracy
as Iago, and Arthur Hartling as
Othello.

Most of the play hinged upon the
plot of Iago; its planning, its development, and its final results.
Tracy turned in an excellent role
here. Sometimes sinister, sometimes consoler, at other times the
gay reveller, Tracy was at all
times subtle and understanding: in
the reading ‘of his part. With so
much variation of interpretation
demanded of him, Tracy could
have hardly over-acted; the play,
in one sense was his until the last
act. His stage deportment was
good, and above all, relaxed. However, perhaps more important were
his voice and diction. Tracy’s inflection and phrasing revealed one
who understood what to do with
Shakespeare’s poetry in this play.
It is partially through the mind
of the scheming Iago that the
play-goer is forced to accept the
almost incongruous reactions of
Othello to Iago’s suggestions. Once
the listener has accepted this, he
has admitted the success of Iago
as an actor, and has prepared himself to follow Othello in the development of the tragedy. Tracy
accomplished this effect with a
skill that never once flagged during performance; and it is still
more to his credit when one
realizes that this is only his second
performance in Shakespeare.

Closely allied in importance and
quality was the performance of
Art Hartling as Othello. I feel
that Hartling’s performance as
Othello was much more convincing
than his role as Macbeth last year,
Othello’s character is of an open,
almost simple nature, at times

Naive in his reaction to the schem
cal strength is enormous, but his
mental strength is not enough to
offset the physical. As a result,
Othello can give vent to his emotions in a manner almost unreasonable compared to Macbeth or
Hamlet. In the light of these comments, Hartling’s role was extremely convincing; he has a striking stage presence and manner,
and possesses a magnificently full
and resonant voice, the deeper
tones of which are a delight to the
ear. Perhaps the only objection to
Hartling’s performance can be
levelled against an occasionally
over-emotional scene, when his
voice rose in volume and intensity;
the result was often an enormous
torrent of sound, which could not
be understood by the listener.
However, this criticism is minor in
relation to the generally excellent
reading he gave his part. It must
be remembered that in such a taxing role, complete control of one’s
mind in the midst of so much emotional conflict is not an easy thing
to aecomplish.. In a sense, Hartl
ing’s emotional outbursts can be
justified when compared to the
coldly caleulated reasoning of

Iago; the contrast is striking and
complete.

The second important group of
players turned in very good performances too. Cassio was played
by Robin MacNeil; Desdemona by
Willa Jean Seeley, Emelia by Holly
Fleming.

Cassio was well played by Robin
MacNeil, a newcome to the Glee
Club. As a rather light-hearted and
irresponsible young courtier MacNeil gave the part the dash. and
youthful vigour it required. Only
after the full effects of the tragedy
unfold does Cassio become a man
of weight. MacNeil’s clear diction
and his easy agility on stage at all
times gave added force to his role.

Willa Jean Seeley, as Desdemona,
is another newcomer to Dalhousie.
Willa, (Widge) was admirably cast
as Desdemona. She gave the part
the simple and innocent character
it required. Desdemona was the

victim of her own innocence, the
innocence of a child. Her reactions
to the slander thrown upon her
were those of childish wonder,
simple amazement and finally resigned grief to her fate. Willa’s
easy and unaffected stage appearance and manner only added to the
simple beauty of her role; her

voice was small but warm in tone, |

and helped create that air of complete incomprehensibility that enveloped her mind so much. Willa’s
voice was at times too small to be
heard throughout the gymnasium,
especially when she spoke upstage,
and her voice became lost in the
wing's.

Holly Fleming, last year’s Lady
MacBeth, played Emelia very well.
Holly has fine stage deportment,
and a voice that can be heard distinctly at all times. Holly had the
tendency to over-act slightly during the last act, and used her vocal
powers a little too strongly, with
the result that her voice sounded
hard and blurred. Aside from this,
Holly acted with ease and agility,
especially in the ironically humorous scene where she and Iago
tussle over the handkerchief, visual
symbol of the tragedy to follow.

John Roberts, another newcomer,
played Roderigo, who unfortunate
for him, was in love with Desdemona, and like her, paid for his
innocence with his life. John took
over the part only two weeks before the performance, when it was
vacated by the former owner of
the part, John presented an understanding interpretation of the role.
The only hitch was in his stage
technique, which was not as
smooth as some of the other players. However, in terms of the short
time available to him for work,
Roderigo did extremely well.

The third group of players all

had smaller roles, but were all
played quite well, with certain
limitations.

Brabantio, father to Desdemona,
was well acted by Murray MacInnis, who has a good strong voice,
a fine appearance, and a relaxed
stage manner. The Duke of Venice,

Aree

LAW NOTES

By ALF HARRIS

The annual Osgood Hall-Dal de| bating tryouts were held Wedneslay. From the eight contestants
two were chosen to represent Ye
Olde Lawe Schoole, The debating
manager went before the Students’
Council last week and with the cooperation of the Sodales president
Ian was able to get a reallocation
of$50 to help finance the trip. The
remainder of the money required
for the trip will be supplied by our
Law Society and donations.
In the field

sports our teams

feating Pine Hill 26-18.

|
|

The game} another
was close and the score was tied| shown a keen

February 18 is the day set for
the Law party. The party will be
held out at Mulgrave Park. Party
chairman Grant says that it will
be a real doo so be sure to attend.
The committee will meet Monday to
finalize plans. It is estimated that
the event will cost in the neighborhood of a dollar a couple.

Mock Parliament date has been
set for Friday, February 10. The
party leaders are at work and may
be seen nearly any time in the corridors- or in the common room instructing their followers on bills
or explaining points of procedure.

came across with a victory in the| We are fortunate to have Mr. L. W
Inter-fac Baske arue by Sheet ae :
ter-fac Basketball league by de-| Fraser, K.C.

as our speaker for
Mr. Fraser has
interest to our aid

year.

at 18-18 up till the last five min-| for this event.

utes, then Law rushed and sank
one basket after another to
the contest. Keep it up boys.

win

February 138th at 7

 

shape.

Looking at some of the newspapers from other colleges I see

| where Mr. George Drew attended

In hockey Law plays Pine Hill} the Mock Parliament at Queens.
p.m., and| Mr. M. J. Coldwell spoke for the
Pharmacy February 14th at 8 p.m.|C.C.F. at the model parliament of
By the way everyone is waiting for|one of the western universities.
that Law-Varsity game, so get in| Wonder if something similar will

be tried here?

 

this year’s Pharos last fall. Moreira knew of the danger in waiting
and told me so—there is no reason
why the Council should have delayed. If necessary, they could have
had a temporary editor appointed
to get graduate and undergrad pictures begun and so forth. Then,
when the request came through to
explain what had been done re the
"50 Pharos they could have pointed

Letter to the Editor (continued)

to work completed. With work in
the stage it should have been in,
there would have been little danger of action by the college authorities to drop the compulsory levy.
But the Council procrastinated and
some are seeking to avoid blame
and place the burden on
Enough said.

RONALD CALDWELL,

ex-editor

me.

 

played by Dave Janigan, presented
quite a strike and regal figure in
appearance on stage. Dave’s most
serious lack was a clear voice. He
had lots of volume, but the voice
was a trifle thick, and when he
spoke upstage, his voice, like Desdemona’s was lost in the wings.

Margot MacLaren played the
part of Bianca, mistress to Cassio.
Here we had the only serious miscast of the play, but once again,
we had a girl who put all she had
into the part, and one must admit
that she did look very pert and
coquettish, but not hard and worldly enough.

Newcombe Bloomer, as Montano
and Jim Cruikshanks, as Lodovico,
turned in competent performances.
It is too bad that Cruikshanks had
never tried out before for drama
work. He has a strong appearance, and a good voice, although
untrained, with the result that
many of his lines fell flat. However, he has a voice, which, if
trained, could make him a valuable
asset in many character roles,

The stage settings and lighting
'features for “Othello” were the

 

eS
—

finest yet seen on the Dalhousie
stage. The combination of tremendously high sets, new, neutral
colored curtains, and superb offstage lighting gave the stage a
vastness of area never seen before,
and beautiful settings to fit every
mood of the play. The stage crew
this year was handled by Albert
MacMahon, while much of the
lighting was created by Ray Fiske
and his crew. To these two groups,
plus the make-up and costume department, much credit is due, for
they did much to make the play
as satisfying as it the
audience.

Of all the Shakespearean plays
produced here at Dalhousie,
“Othello” was given the most
Smooth and balance performance.
The chain of thought set in motion
by Iago was given continuous flow,
without some of the roughness that
broke the unity of other plays.
This is not to retract the faults
that existed in this play, but rather
to say that the general impression
of this play as a whole has been
rewarding beyond the hopes of
many persons on the campus,

was to

 

 
     
     

= 7
ere eee 9
—— a
o= ony
a a. , «i

my

al
7

OT: peal ene tesa:

ae 
|

 
 

___ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

om Swamped by Acadia in Jntercollegiate PAUCEBY Game

iL TIGER | HOOPSTERS EDGE ‘AXEMEN

 

heuer Show Sih os as Bengals
Downed 16-1; Anglin & Janes Superb

The high-scoring, fast-skating Acadia Axemen took the Dal Varsity into camp on Saturday by a score of 16-1, im a rough and ready
game ih the Nova Scotia Intercollegiate Hockey League.. The Axemen, currently leading the Valley Senior League, had their passing
plays clicking to perfection, while the Tigers’ play was erratic and disorganized. Acadia opened the scoring mid-way through the first period, but the Bengals drew up even as Johnny Williston slapped a loose
puck past Skinner in the Acadia nets 25 seconds later. The period
ended with the Axemen in front 2-1.

From the start of the second period on, it was all Acadia. The
Valley-men rapped in six goals during the period without a return from
the Bengals, as time and again they swooped in on goalie Bill Janes.
Janes made a spectacular saves, but even his stellar work could not stem
the red and blue wave. Both teams were short-handed during most of
the period. The play was very rough and several fights broke out
among the players. Big Gooch Bateman and ‘Red’ White of Dal
tangled near the close of the period, and both received major penalties.

In the third period, the Tigers were seldom out of their own zone.
Janes averaged over one stop per minute and only his superb goaltending and the defence work of Captain Jamie Anglin and George
Mattison stopped-the Axemen at all. The Kelly-men racked up eight
goals during the period, making the final score 16-1 in their favor.

stopped the amazing total of 64
shots while Skinner in the Acadia
citadel was forced to make only 16
saves. Janes even got a hand from
the Acadia fans for his great work.

George Mattison and Marvin
Ellis were outstanding on the Tiger
defence and the first line of Smith,
Morrison and Jardine plugged hard
all the way.

For the Axemen, Matheson and
rugby star Johnny MacAskill were
the most outstanding players. MacAskill had three goals and Matheson chalked up two goals and two
assists. Moe Smith of the Axemen
led the scorers with four goals and
one assist. The Acadians used
some nice passing plays and their
defence work was top-notch.

For the Dalhousians, the outstanding star was Jamie Anglin
who played all but three minutes
of the contest and skated himself
right into. the ice in an effort ue
halt the Acadia onslaught. Jamie |
was one of the few men on the|
team who threw anything remotely |
resembling a body check, and time
after time he sent the attackers.
crashing to the ice. Second star |
must go to goalie Bill Janes who

Referees Wally Barteaux and
Charlie Copus called a total of 17
penalties.

 

 

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price
for Young Men

enemies, the “X-men”

Doug Clancy,
“Red” Finlay,

Jimmy Mahon,
Coach Vitalone,

Paced by the sensational shooting of Betty “Cuz”

over the Acadia Axettes in Wolfville on Saturday by a score of
18-10. “Cuz” started things off on
the right foot by sinking a shot in
the first few minutes of play. The
game was fast, furious, and rough
from the opening whistle with both
teams working full force. Referees
Marg Eustace and Mary Munroe
had a job and a half on their
hands, when the Acadia girls began
to rough things up. Fouls were
well handed out with the Axettes
having the higher score in this department.

“Cuz” was all over the floor,
taking advantage of every opening and put on a total of 14 pts.
Marilyn MacIntyre with a tall
guard against her, was practically
powerless, but managed to notch
up two points.

this evening at 8. p.m.
since last year, so it will be top rate.
Struan “Arpy” Robertson,
Dave McCurdy, Andy MacKay, Mason MacDonald,
“Bazook” Palmeter, and Assistant-Manager

GIRLS VARSITY TEAM TOPS ACADIA
18-10, COUSINS PUTS IN 14 POINTS

Tigers to Meet |
X-Men Tonight

Tonight the Dalhousie Tigers,
rulers of the Halifax Intermediate
Basketball League, meet their biggest test of the current season as
they take on the St. F.X. aggregation, Maritime Senior, Maritime
Intermediate, and Dominion. Intermediate champions. The game will

be played in the Dal gym at 8.00

P.M.

The Xavarians are 2-1 favorites
on the strength of their showings
so far this year. During a seven
game tour through New Brunswick
and Maine, they lost only om® contest, to the Calais Chiefs of the
Maine League, and that only by
two points. Aside from one other
loss, to the powerful House of
David outfit, the X-Men are undefeated. On a recent jaunt to
Cape Breton they swamped the
Sydney Seniors by a 66-23 count.
Two victories over the St. John
Seniors add to the Xavarian record.

The Tigers, fresh from a win
over the Acadia Varsity, will be in
top shape for the all-important
contest. All players are in trim,
and Coach Vitalone expects a win
from the Bengals, who have lost

but one game, that to the St. John
Seniors, in 14 games this year. A
large crowd is expected as this will
undoubtedly
the season.

be the top game of

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  

Fresh from their victory at Acadia, the Varsity Hoop squad are getting all set to meet their arch |
This is the game that both teams have been waiting for
Pictured above, from left to right are; front row:
Gordie MeCoy, and C

“Dipe’”” Marshall.

 

Acadia was in there on the in
Cousins the/tercepting, and the Black and Gold
Dal Girls’ Varsity team stomped|had to keep close watch on their

passes. Gay Esdale put in the
nicest play of the game, with a
beautiful fake in the dying minutes of the last*quarter and put
her guard completely of balance.

The Dal guards put in a top
flight performance and were a big
factor in keeping the score down.
Betty Petrie was outstanding, and

| Lucy Calp, turning in an excellent

game managed to forget her usual
calm, cool and collected attitude,
and if fisticuffs weren’t against
the rules there might* have been
harsh results.

The scorg at half time stood 10-3
for Dal. MacKay of Acadia opened the scoring. Menzies, also of
Acadia, put in a good game on the
guard line. There was. lots of
fight al the way through and the

 

 

Cagers Have Close SI Shave as Acadia
Comes from Behind in Final Period

Dalhousie Tigers eked out a 36-33 victory over the Acadia Axemen last Saturday as they notched up their first win in the opening

game of the Intercollegiate Basketball loop. The Vitalone coached 
men found much difficulty with the stiff rims and their inability to
shoot from the corners due to the overhanging track.

Connally opened the scoring for Dal with two foul shots and
Komoski of Acadia quickly tied it up with a long set shot. The close
checking of both teams kept the score down and with less than 6 minutes to go in the first half the Tigers were ahead 6-2 Then The
Bengals really came to life, Henderson received a pass from McCoy and
laid it up for two. Mahon scored, McCoy scored and Henderson tallied
again to put Dal way out in front. Just before the end of the half big
Bob Black hooked one in to make the score 16-4 for the Bengals.

Mahon opened the second half with two points for Dal. Hart of
Acadia and Henderson and Mahon of Dal all tallied and then Acadia
came to life. Lead by Demont and Wickwire they held Dal basket for
basket as they gradually cut down the ‘Tiger’s lead. Demont was fouled
out, and Earl Smith, classy Dal center, had to leave the game with an
injured ankle.

The Acadia team completely outroughed the Dal quintet during
this half and several fouls were
called on both teams by referee
Alf (W. E.) Johnson. While the
Dal team controlled the backboards
and had a definite edge in play,
they were unable to cope with the
almost flukey long set shots of
Wickwire and Nowlan of Acadia.

The most thrilling moments of

were excitedly hollering for their
team to tie it up. Dalhousie called
time out and Coach Vitalone ordered the team to freeze the ball since
there were only about two minutes
remaining. The Acadia team drove
desperately and surely would have
scored except for the spectacular
rebounding of Dal’s guards
‘Landy” MacKay and Scotty Henderson. Then the break ecame—

 

the game came during the last few/ Acadia scored on a set shot to
minutes of play: The score board; make it 82-34 and Komoski was

read 30-34 in favor of Tigers, Ac- |
adia had just scored six successive
points and the Acadia spectators

fouled in the act of shooting a few
seconds later. A hushed silence
settled over the Gym as Komoski
went to the line to take two. He
| made one out of the two, to make
the score 33-34. (It is nice to report that the Dalhousie spectators,
unlike the Acadians, kept quiet
| while an opposing player took a
foul shot.) The basket, and deciding factor, of the game came with
less than 11 seconds to go, when
veteran guard Andy MacKay tore
under the Acadian basket, received
a pass from a forward and hooked
the ball up backwards to score the
winning basket of the game. The
final 36-33 for the

Tigers,

score was

(R.M.)

 

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

9% Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

|
|
Scott Henderson, |
Connally. Back row:
30b Black, Manager Tan |

Charlie C

NEWMAN

Dal girls are getting all set for|

the return match.

 

 

| 6
| U RS i re i Nova Scotian Hotel

(Bedford Room)
As a Career
Je Se Feb. 10th
Dalhousie University provides

a five-year course leading to the || J-1
degree of Bachelor of Nursing oa
Science. Graduates will find

ready employment at a_ high Orchestra
level in the nursing profession, *

Three years from matriculation
standing are spent in university
and two years in hospital. Students interested who are now
pursuing Science Courses should
communicate with the Registrar’s Office for further details.

No Corsages

 

Sponsored by
Dalhousie Newman Club

Price: $3.00 Couple

 

 

 

 

 

ST Te
