 

x

“~

a,

oe

~

   
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

a

—_

.)
j é
;

|

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

 

f HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17,

ar |
my:
ene
,
on eo

RS COLE

 

* ered
i)
4

" Uy Py we " re ms or / at SM 7 or — an oy ey a r _ ~~ * a* , a he *
ar he = 7 é

1950

SADIE
HAWKINS
DANCE
TONIGHT

No. 30

 

DAL TO PARTICIPATE IN FIRST
INTER-VARSITY DRAMA FESTIVAL

‘Students’ Council Report

President’s Report on the Yearbook for 1949

The Pharos for 1949 first became the concern of this
year’s Council in late July or early August of last summer.
It became known that there was a little more wrong with the
yearbook than excusable printing delays, and I took it upon
myself to consult those people who might know. The Editor
was then at Ingonish Beach, where he had a summer job.

 

The Business Manager, Lew Mil
 

I contacted Mr. Burns of the

ler, told me that material was) Kentville Publishing Co., who told
missing and that he did not expect| me what was missing and that he

completion in the near future. He
was worried about collecting from
the advertisers. He told me also
that a law student, Richie Love,
had had something to do with the
yearbook recently and might have
further details.

Mr. Love told me that he had
been asked by the Edttor to look
after one or two minor matters
connected with the book, which he
had done. In the course of this he
had become acquainted with the
actual state of the yearbook, and

_ decided to have nothing more to do

with it, which amounted to a warning that affairs were in bad shape.

Our Secretary-treasurer was
concerned then only about closing
the books of last year’s Council,
and after some difficulty had obtained a written statement from
the Editor to be included im the
statements. He had, naturally, no
reason to believe that the book was
in unduly bad shape.

(Continued on page two)

 

The Council of Students,
Dalhousie University,
February 14th, 1950

The Editor,

Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir,

At a meeting of the Council
held last night the enclosed
report was approved by the
Council, and included in its
minutes. The Report covers the
steps taken by this year’s Council in respect on the 1949 edition of Pharos, and the policy
which governed them.

The Council instructed me to
place a copy of the report in
your hands for publication, in
order to inform the student
body of the part played by the
present Council in the matter.

Yours very truly,
ARTHUR MOREIRA,
President.

ISS Gets Only Eight Hundred Dollars
Out of Two Thousand which is Needed

Dalhousie’s annual International Students Service fund campaign
is rapidly approaching the $800.00 mark according to an announcement
from the committee yesterday. This total has been reached through
an almost complete student canvass and contributions of over $250.00
in checks from alumni in the Halifax area.

In the next week the canvass of@¢———_——

the faculty will be completed. It is
hoped by the committee that the
total of this campaign will top
$1000.00. The committee plans to
hold complementary tag day and
other activities in the fall to make
up the balance necessary to conduct the program as outlined in the
circular letters sent out to all students and faculty members.
Students are also reminded that

_ applications to attend the ISS
_ summer seminar in France are now

being accepted by the selection
committee. The forms are obtainable from the registrar’s office and
must be returned with three letters
of reference by Feb. 28th.

Sadie Hawkins
Dance Tonight

This is it! Oui, Oui, the girls of
the Campus have had their chance
and now they must prepare them
- selves for the biggest fight of all.

Tonight is the Sadie Hawkins Day
Dance in the Gym. After a week

of bridge, serenading and eating,

the last of which is by far the most

Fe | enjoyable to any female, concludes

when the suckers! pardon me, ee

NOTICE

There will be a special Dalhousie
service at St. Andrew’s Church
Sunday, Feb. 19, at 7 p.m. The
speaker will be Dr. A. E. Kerr, Dr.
H. B. Clarke and Miss Margaret
Prang.

ke | Forum to be
Held in Gym Thursday

The first Student Forum of 1950
wil be held in the Dalhousie Gymnasium at noon on February 23.
By constitution at least three Student Forums are to be held each
year. At these open meetings the
Student Council explains its position on important topics to the
Student Body and answers any
questions put to it by interested
parties regarding its work.

The success of these forums depends to a great extent upon the
participation of members of the
Student Body in the discussions.

The agenda for next Thursday’s
Student Forum ‘is as follows:

(1) Pharos for 1949

(2) Pharos for 1950

(3) Desirability of paid admission
for students to events in Gym

(4) Other Business.

Thirty-Five Cadets
Selected for COTC

This spring the Dalhousie-Kings
Contingent of the COTC will send
a total of ninety-five officer cadets
for summer training to various
Corps Schools across Canada.
Twenty-six other Canadian Universities will also send contingents.
Thirty-five first year Officer
Cadets were selected this year for
their first sixteen weeks of training towards qualifying for a commission in the Canadian Army.

The COTC cadets take training
for three summers and certain lectures during the winter months. At
the successful completion of which
they receive a qualification as Captain or Lieutenant in the Canadian
Army.

Students selected this year are:
H. J. Mann, G. Day, H. A. Kay,
W. L. Jones, A. J. Arkelian, C. C.
Lewis, A. L. Foote, D. T. Janigan,
R. J. Chisholm, J. B. Fenton, W. K.
Hughes, D. D. Dickie, T. F. Meagher, J. A. MacDonald, G. A. Lambrose, T. N. C. Agelufo, J. Smallman, I. N. MacLean, A. N. Camp
bell, L. V. Cullinan, J. A. Gibson, |

Council to Pay Hall Cost
Of All Student Admissions

The Council of Students, at their meeting on Monday
last, gave official approval to the Inter-University Drama
Festival to be held in the Dalhousie Gymnasium on Saturday, March 4th, and have undertaken to subsidize the cost of
admission to the students as part of a four-point financial
backing program as follows:
Se ee earache lll

McGill to Have Contest
For Original Tie Design

MONTREAL — (CUP) —A contest to determine the design of a
distinctive undergraduate tie is'
being held at McGill. All students
at McGill are eligible to enter this
contest.

The Dress Committee of the Students’ Athletic Council has already
submitted three designs, but the
Students’ Executive Council felt
that it would like to obtain the students’ opinion on what type of tie
they would like. Also, a prize of
$5.00 will be offered for the winning tie.

Said Perry Black, Arts and Science representative on the SEC,
“In submitting a design, students
are asked to consider the facility
of production, and the fact that the
tie should be suitable for wear with
a blazer.” He also said that if the
winning tie proved acceptable, that
the Scarlet Key would adopt it as
their official tie.

A. G@ McKenzie, G. H. Faulkner,
CG) Kk Pagh, J. EK. .'Cowan, 0: H.
Phillips, G. T. Crossman, H. A.
MacKinley, R. Heinberg J. C.
Lyons, L. W. Morgan, W. K. Roscoe, L. R. Gezner, C. E. McCara.,

CO-VETTES

The next meeting of the Dalhousie Co-Vettes will be held in
the Commissary, Mulgrave Park,
Tuesday evening, February 21, at
8:15 p.m. Each Co-Vette is asked
to bring at least one recipe. Badminton, ping-pong and other sports
will also be featured. All students’
wives are invited to attend.

Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Pirates of Penzance” to be
Presented by The Glee and Dramatic Society Next Week

With a preview peek at the Pirates of Penzance, though the show
will not run for 400 nights as it did
in London in 1880, it is expected
that the house will be packed on
the evenings of Feb. 28rd, 24th,
and 25th. Fifty years since the
death of the composer, Sir Arthur
Sullivan, the compositions of Gilbert and Sullivan are still ever increasing in popularity.

This year’s Gilbert and Sullivan
production is expected to be even
better than those of previous years,
with an almost entirely new group
of soloists, and under the direction
of Prof. Hamer, an authority on
Gilbert and Sullivan.

Having only recently joined the

j|east, Ron Beare is doing excep
|tionally well in his portrayal of

ee Piste, 2 oie Sehnert and

Saar
ny ek

Audrey Powell as Mabel and Edith
are the most attractive assets of
the show. Gordon Coll typifies the
part of the [Pirate King to perfection, his rumbling chuckles are infectious. The portrayal of the
Maj.-Gen. “the lonely orphan boy”
by Dick Miller is expected to be as
good as that of Edmund Hockridge.
Diane Parker turns in another superlative performance as Ruth in
spite of being thrown around during the opera. Ann Theakston and
Stan Pearson are back this year as
Kate and Sam, and Marnie Stevenson is Isabel. Roy. DeYoung remembered for his inimitable portrayal of the Col. in Patience, is
just as humourous this year as the
Sgt. As long as the soloists get
over their remarkably contagious
“sniffles” by the 28rd all will be
well.

With 60 girls in the chorus,
there is volume as well as quality.
For the performance each half
will alternate,—it’s rather doubtful
whether the stage would hold them
all at once. Both the Pirates and
the Police do an inspiring performance with their “Ta-ran-ta-ras”,
their marching, and their wooing
of the ladies. Never did so few
produce such great volume.

The orchestra is now keeping
time with the singing, and have
greatly improved after much hard
practice. The stage-crew too, is
on the job, as usual. At present,
the scenery consists chiefly of a
very realistic painting of a ship,
the sea, and the sky.

A word of thanks is due to Audrey Farnell for substituting as
Mabel while Ishbel was sick.

z

1. Reduce admission from 50
cents to 25 cents for students.

2. Pay the difference of 25
cents for all students who
attend.

. Guarantee the Glee Club’s
Share of any loss ineurred
oe the Festival.

. Advance the Glee Club the
sum of $50.00 as working
capital.

During the organizational discussions between the representatives from Acadia, Dalhousie and
Mount Allison it was agreed to set
the price of general admission to
the Festival at fifty cents for both
students and general public. But
Since it has not been customary
during recent years for Dalhousie
students to pay admission over and
above the presentation of their
Council cards, the Students’ Council felt they should lower the price
and make up the difference from
the treasury.

_ One of the main ideas connected
with the Festival is to provide the
student body with more legitimate
theatre, also, to encourage student
audiences. Since student’s pocketbooks are not heavily padded the
reduction from fifty cents to
twenty-five cents, plus a Council
ecard, was felt to be a reasonable
measure.

Dal Debaters Lose
At St. Dunstans

The third debate in the series of
Intercollegiate debates was held in
Charlottetown between Dal and St.
Dunstans. Dal, represented by Ian
Robertson and Ned Cyr, was defeated on the resolution: “Resolved that Intercollegiate debates
should be abolished.”

The main theme of the Dal team,
which upheld the affirmative, was
that the weaknesses and failures of
the present debating system warranted it to be abolished as a
means for the development of the
art of public speaking. This should
be substituted for a new system.

St. Dunstan’s stressed the importance of debating in the development of the individual, and
maintained that the present system fulfilled its ends. The team
consisted of Wilfrid Driscoll and
John Murnaghan.

NOTICE

‘The Physics and Chemistry
Journal Club will meet in the Physics Theatre on Tuesday, February
21 at 5 p.m. The first speaker, Dr.
W. J. Archibald, will discuss “‘The
Theory of the Electron”. Mr. J. S.
Rose, the second speaker, will diseuss the “Mechanism of the Willgerodt Reaction”.
  
  
  

 

 

  

a] rer pier : if — =
5 A Gas Peed Oe ee Pots + fae, © ‘-.
—|Blockheads to run around Loose,
and one did say that it was all a

 

    
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  

 

if er Phone 3-7098 ) |

Member Canadian University Press

Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
rye Opinions etovcesed are not necessarily those of the

ents’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,

ousie Gazette, Halifax, N. S.
re ee eae oe Gite Se = ..... Bruce Lockwood
RO Cte had ane LA A ee Maurice Foisy

b Pie tua tae vceaslevs © Aleve Harris
nf EEE AR. ..eeeee-.. Murray Higgins

4

o.y 0-42 O16. 6

EDITORIAL STAFF
vs Editors eee ue Nei dase ts)

 
 

Charles MacIntosh
Valerie Cato

  
  
       
  
  

rue 2 Marj Golberg
res ee Sa Cae PE te essai Gra, < | Hence tewii
«Sp PORRORS (5.7 fase sa 00 aE ek ea il, fee renal
SOUP Bditor . ii. .fes ss Be Lies see a kt. Jim MacDonald
fae) pores Reporter ...%..... Pe er IE a taking Ming 0 Ralph Medjuck
SP PEPOMIDUY CUBE cio ok iic oes x pis <n cee'a tices Bes aes se Barbara McGeoch
eporters ....... ... Bob McInnes, Noel Goodridge, Betty Livingstone
jographer ........ Pe aes Lead ear aly oaks a 6in i Dan Soberman
RUSE acipas & xXs <i « ee, Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
SE: MERA CRU liga eck dns bie'e wig e hous Lucy Calp

 
  

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1950

GAZETTE POLICY

He At the last meeting of the Students’ Council discus-_ sion arose concerning policies which should be observed
i by the Gazette. During that time, certain misapprehensions were brought to light . .. misapprehensions on various topics held by no one member in particular or even
the Council in general . . . but nevertheless erroneous
‘ideas which may be held by students outside the Council.

Firstly, the Gazette is not now and was never. intended to be an organ of the Council. It is, of course, under
- Council auspices, but more as a means of carrying in
_, formation and opinions, than as a medium of expressing
_. and furthering the Council’s aims. A student newspaper
should be answerable fo its authorities only for violating those restrictions to which all newspapers are subject. It should not be required to answer for mere dif
_ ferences of opinion.

Freedom of the press is an intangible concept, and
one often voiced to further individual ambitions, or used
without an accompanying sense of responsibility, as are
all freedoms. But in the case of a student newspaper,

_particularly,( individual ambitions are easily— discernible, and their effects easily weighed. As for responsibility, felt or not felt, as the case may be, that is due to
the students and not their Councils.

Some may say that responsibility to a Council and
to the students is an indivisible whole. If this were so,

_ they must also agree that representative governments
are perfect ... that Parliaments make no errors. Obviously that is incorrect. And with no opposition party to
place a check on a Council’s actions, a student newspaper
is the most obvious and logical substitute.

The Gazette was also criticized for inconsistency, with
the idea that this would cast a shadow of doubt on all

' prior and subsequent opinions expressed. It was conceded that inconsistent opinions might be expressed in
an editorial and a by-line column respectively, but never
should the editorial policy of a paper change over a period of time.

Let us generalize that statement. Two minds may
ae draw different inferences from the same set of facts at
Ft any given time, but one mind may not draw different in
ryt ferences from sets of facts changed by time. That goes
. beyond the prohibition of a change of mind in the present to the point of bulldog tenacity with no reconsideration allowed in the future. It would appear that a student newspaper should follow a non-existent party line,
nes and brand any attempt at reflection as the lowest form
p of vacillation. .
E> The final point worthy of consideration which arose’
at the meeting concerned the suppression of news. In
certain cases this year, at the request of the university,
the Council, or others involved, stories have not been
printed. The Gazette, too, deemed the suppression wise,
ae but the question remains—should a student newspaper
4 suppress any news of interest to the students?
Justification for such an action lies not in the
a news itself, but in the effect which its publication might
an | have. Often the printing of a story could lead only to

   

 

  
  
 
    
    
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 

oo the aggravation of an existing situation, with no speciae fic purpose served, except the satisfaction of sensationBe, seekers. No editor is bound to print “all the news that’s

PAE fit to print”, and so that problem, devolves into one of
o ; weighing relative responsibilities, as do all questions of
_ editorial policy.

Students’ Council Report
(Continued from page one)
had wired and written the Editor
without answer or acknowledgement, and I called a meeting of
_ those Council members then in the

ae city.

The meeting was worried and indignant after a review of the situation, which then amounted to this:

ee a considerable amount of material

Biss. was missing; advertising could not

: be collected nor bills paid; the book

looked as though it might be very

late indeed and the Editor had not
acknowledged the printer’s corresspondence. The meeting had the

benefit of the advice of Mr. Mil
_ ler (who was not present) and Mr.

me a ; ea

 

terms outlined in the minutes and

ask for prompt action and an explanation.

Burns was phoned during the
meeting, and promised us a letter
which arrived in a few days. The
following material was missing; a
dummy, captions for all cuts except biographies and copy for
pages 1-93.

In the meantime we had no answer from the Editor, although we
had asked for an acknowledgement,
and the Vice-President and I decided to try and get him by phone. On
August 24th we spoke to him.

There were two principal features of the discussion which I
wish to note: the first, to which we
_ |should undoubtedly attach importto} ance, dealt with his reasons. He

   
   

    

     
  

 
  

3 me ase
. mn: he aes i i 3
a ete rs Men

 

da considerable amount of
i bee Ale i. i. n vA

   
  

 

 

 
 

  

 
 

 

   
 

  
  
  
    

Wednesday, Feb. 15, 1950 — Up
betimes and to the college on the
hill where I did pay a visit to the
Library, for I did wish to see the
scholars at work:-in their native
habitat. I was greatly surprised to
find, however, that they do not go
to the Library primarily for the
purpose of furthering their education, but in hopes of finding some
diversion or other, for they seem
much disinterested in debating and
other means of improving their

No. 30 | minds.

I did meet with a group of students discussing the last meeting
of their Parliament and the memmers of that noble group. All did
agree that Less Ozone, the Prime
Minister, was a distinguished parliamentarian. Gorgon Cinders was
also mentioned. They did speak of
Cinders’ attempt to besmirch the
honorable name of the Spectator,
for he did not approve of allowing

trouble with his staff, which had
left him with a great deal of work
after exams. He had taken this
work to Ingonish, hoping to complete it. Then (in July, I believe)
he had sustained an unfortunate injury, which had further delayed
work and resulted in trouble with
his eyes.

The second feature of the discussion was his statements as to progress. He told us that most of the
material was in the mail to Kentville, and the rest would go forward in a few days. We were glad
to hear that, and wrote to Burns
for confirmation, and subsequently
kept in touch with him regularly
by phone. -The material did not arrive, and had obviously never been
sent. We later made several attempts to contact the Editor without success.

The only thing we heard from
Burns was to the effect that he
had no dummy—the Editor had
said that he had. In fact there was
a dummy for the complete sections
which had been returned to Halifax
and held by Richie Love until he
turned it over to me. The dummy
for the missing sections was absent.

About this time (it was early in
September) I had exams and dropped Council work except arrangements for the Nifcus conference in
Ottawa. I did wire the Editor asking for a reply collect regarding

(Continued on page three)

 

—_—_—

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
      
      
 
     
      
 
 
       
 
      
  
 
  
         

       
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

  
        

      
  

tempest in a tea pot. Another did

add, “Yes, and the pot is filled with

King’s Cole’s Tea.” Whereupon all
did laugh, but another did say that

j|he was unfit to sit among Parlia
mentarians, for he did believe in
the Divine Right of Kings. They
did speak thus for a great length
of time and did discuss Far-Off,
the students’ Doomsdaybook, and
many other matters, I did say to
them that they should make their
opinions known at the grand assembly of the scholars to be held
soon, but they all expressed a dis
belief that it would do any good; |—

and said that they would not even
attend.

Thursday, Feb. 16, 1950 — Did
rise early and breckfast on some
bacon. and a few dry crusts of
bread left over from the grand
party my wife did hold last night,
at which they did play this new
game of cards.

I then did pay a visit to the
Lady Hamilton where I found a
much larger number of students
than usual. None seemed willing to
depart and go to classes, but stood
around outside, and I could not understand this so I decided to go to
the college on the hill and see for
myself what was the reason behind
this strange reluctance. As I entered the building I was confronted by an impressive table behind
which two damsels sat as if in
judgment upon all who entered.
They were Misses Ran Down and
Sinbright. They did frown at me
and say in ominous tones, “Mr.
Peeps, have you yet signed to give
your blood?”, whereupon I replied
that I had not heard that there
was a war on and that I was too

old for the army. They replied that |

age was no matter, and pointed

x

, a Se

) Life”,
| I replied that if this was the case I
‘was quite unwilling to part with
‘mine before it became absolutely
necessary. Miss Down did then
take a large needle from out of her
pocket and jab it in my arm, while
Miss Sinbright did hold a large
flagon. I thus donated my blood to
some cause, and I do believe that I
did so in vain for I heard that the
usual proceduré is nothing like this
and I feel that the two charming
young damsels were having fun at
my expense, for this is Co-Ed week
and they are allowed certain liberties.

et

  
  
  

os

|to a sign reading “Blood Is

 

 

 

They’re Popular

-Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Be sure the famous Birks
Blue Box encloses your
choice.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

Come on Students

Ride In The Best
3-§ TAXI SERVICE

Phone Phone
3-7188 ® 3-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

 

CANADA’S
FIRST BANK

Halifax Branch:

North End Branch:
Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

 

JOHN A. HOBSON, Mer.

JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mer.
CHARLES SMITH, Mer.

JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mer.

 

  
      

e
Mp REMEMBER
Haye "MILO WITH WETPROOF PAPER
LO WOT STICK 70 YOUR LIPS

   
   

yntinued fron page two)
the delays, but received no answer.
3 | the beginning of the term,

in respect of the Editor, and
Be Council reviewed the situation
y its first regular meeting on
5 September 15th. The  cireumst nces were roughly these:—we
iF Pe OC ‘ou d in no way depend on the EdiPi - at that time, since he had not
, Biaeyored our correspondence and
oe had not returned to the University.
_ The material was missing and
_ nothing was being done that we

_ knew of towards completing it.
The Council. appointed a comee to proceed with the completion of the book, and a statement was issued to the Gazette to

Beis: effect. I was instructed to
_ | wire the Editor to send me what
; | Material he then held concerning
_¥" the year book. That wire was not
- answered.

Towards the end of September
_ the Editor returned to the Univer{ r sity, and I met him. He repeated
a, _ the reasons he had given the Vice; yo President and I in our phone con__versation with him, but did not exA plain the incorrect statements he
had then made.

The Vice-President and I decided

to recommend that the Editor con
_ tinue with the book, on the under»\ standing that he would complete
| soon, for the following reasons:—
If any_adverse publicity were the
result of his dismissal it could only
harm the book’s reputation with
| ..y students and public, and reflect on
_ other Dalhousie student organiz| | ations. The Editor alone-really un_ derstood the plan of the book and
_ | the material required for comple| tion. He could do the quickest job
of completing the book. ‘There was

also, by no means the least consideration, a genuine desire to give
E the Editor every opportunity to

make amends for the previous
- shortcomings of himself and the

staff, and enable him to restore
e _ the good reputation he had previously enjoyed for the book of the

previous year. I think the Vice- President and I both sympathized

with the series of misfortunes that
had overtaken him.

‘There was one final considerfy ation that influenced the Council’s
acceptance of our recommendation:
& ° years before the University

y

——

 

— P F & oe _ »
a ;
“—,

   

 

 

   

had made an important concession
to the book in the form of the universal fee, and any undue noise

|might, we feared, induce the Uni
versity to reconsider its concession.
He was offered the help of at least
one staff member, which he declined on the ground that there was
not very much to be done. I have
it on good authority that two
weeks work would have’ completed
the book then.

The Council approved this plan
on October 3rd, and the statement
previously issued to the Gazette
was amended accordingly.

Before the Council again met on
October 17th I was in touch with
Mr. Burns by phone, and he told
me that he had still not heard from
the Editor. I asked the Editor
why nothing had been done, and he
replied to the contrary, saying that
enough material for the time being
had gone forward and that he himself had been in touch with Mr.
Burns. The Council instructed me
to write to Mr. Burns asking for a
definite statement, which I did.
Burns’ answer indicates that the
Editor in speaking to Burns had
asked for proofs, as though Burns
eould only properly expect more
material after proofs had been sent
to the Editor. It indicates also the
Editor had in fact sent in no material.

I read to the Council Burns’
Letter on Nov. 8th; its vagueness
allowed the Council to come to no
accurate conclusion as to the questions rained at the previous meeting. The Editor again gave his assurances that copy was in the mail
to Kentville, and that all of it
would go shortly. The Council decided that a statement must be
made at the Student Forum, and
told me to press the Editor for
completion before then, which I
did and was assured that the last
material was going in early in the
week. Just before the forum the
Editor repeated this, and told me
that some football shots which had
been previously done and mislaid
were going in on the morning of
the forum. I wrote to Mr. Burns
for confirmation.

The Council at that time dealt
also with the Law Society’s letter.

for his aides ‘had rey ‘complete Ghatevkal

" Neate i ee ‘ny Hayton “At that time| in his room. He had discovered
also I had a supp besides our reg-|from the binders that no time

ular exam, and devoted only what] would be lost if we allowed the Ed
time was absolutely necessary to|itor to complete.

Council affairs.

I went with Mr.
Coles to see the material, and

Burns did not answer that letter.| agreed that he was quite correct.
He subsequently told the Vice-|We had a short meeting with Mr.
President and I that, expecting that | Lomas, and I reiterated what I had
the material was coming, he had|/said the night before; as long as
written only to the Editor, who did| the matter remained in my hands I
not answer any of those letters or| could not take it upon myself to

get in touch with Burns.

return the book to the Editor’s

During the holidays I had still} keeping. Mr. Lomas agreed with
no answer from Burns, and I heard|me, and the matter was again
that he expected me to come up and} closed.

see him. The Vice-President and I
accordingly went to Kentville on
January 2nd.

At Kentville we found pages
1-70 incomplete; it seemed, at first
glance, that nothing at all had been
done since the summer, Examination revealed that pages 71-92
were completed last term, and perhaps a few incidental things as
well. Pages 1-70 were represented
by individually complete pages,
pages for which there were cuts
but no copy and a large number of
blank pages and miscellaneous
cuts.

We told Mr. Burns that we would
complete the book and enable him
to print at once. He said that he
was very relieved to hear this; he
explained his reason for not answering my letter, and showed us
his unanswered letters to the Editor. We spent most of the day in
the shop and put together what we
could. When we had no material
left there were ten pages with
nothing on them, and we instructed the foreman to delete them altogether, which he told us could be
done. We had a book—an excellent
book with perhaps thirty weak
pages.

In considering this action —
taken certainly without the Council’s express authorization—it “is
necessary to consider also the
actual alternatives that then lay
before us. We could have satisfied
ourselves‘as to what was there, and
then returned to Halifax to consult either the Editor, the Council,
or both. We would then be in a
position, perhaps, to recommend
that a committee do what we ourselves could do and did in Kentville. We had very little reason
to feel sure that the Editor’s assurances would be of any more

I was unable to contact Burns|value than they had previously
before the forum itself and con-|turned out to be. It never occur
All Wool

and color-full!

These beautiful ties called Arawools

  
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
   
   

ing.

are real eye-pleasers. The fabrics are
100% wool, luxurious and long wear
There’s a wide range of smart, plain
colors ...something for every suit
you own. Treat yourself to a few of
these neat-knotters today.

ARAWOOILS ... $1.50

 

arrow Tks

red to me, at any rate, to think
that the Editor would have the material virtually complete in his
room without having sent some to
Kentville as it was prepared. At
least, had it oceurred to me, I
would have thought that he would
answer Burns’ letters if the material were actually ready. We decided, therefore, to go ahead. I
had decided beforehand that that
would be the best thing to do if the
facts were what they turned out to
be.

We were at least assured of a
yearbook, which would result in relieving the printer of the embarrassing delays of the last eight
months. We would have something to show the students for our
months of supervision and something to indicate to the University
that the Council had dealt with the
situation responsibly. We would
have a book to show the advertisers. These had been the considerations upon which the Council’s original policy had orginally been
based; it seemed, in view of the
Editor’s previous conduct,  altogether too late to worry about
the quality of the book. Even as it
stood then, the completed sections
were very good indeed, and the
substitute sections not too bad.

We had agreed that I would
write to the Editor, since it seemed desirable that any dealings be
in writing. The Editor learned
about our action, and phoned us
before the letter was written, and
it was not sent.

On the night of January 3rd I
told the Editor, after he had asked
to be allowed to complete the book
himself, that after what had happened during last term I could no

‘longer extend the Council’s confid
ence to him and that. the matter
was closed. He then asked for permission to distribute the books; I
replied that that would be up to
the Council, due to meet in five
days time. ,

_ On the following day Mr. Coles
“came to Bee. me and said that the

- =
i 4 c ‘

vo. © i

During the rest of that day and
on the following day the Editor
appears to have been quite active.
He had an interview with the
President of the University, and
contacted the manager of one of
the teams whose pictures would be
omitted if the book was printed as
it stood. He phoned the printers
at Kentville. I do not know what
steps, if any, Mr. Coles took in the
matter beyond this.

On the following day the Editor
phoned me, and said that he had
been in touch with Burns, who was
expecting Mr. Lomas and I to attend a meeting with the Editor and
himself to go over the matter. I
replied that unless there was anything to add that had not been said
on the previous day I couldn’t alter
my decision and saw no point in
meeting Burns. He then challenged my authority to suspend him as
Editor of the book, and announced
that he still considered himself
Editor. I then told him I would call
the Council at once. Mr. Lomas
and I then called the Council; the
Editor had also been in touch with
Mr. Lomas and had told him that
unless he heard from us by seven
o’clock he was going to Kentville
himself. We accordingly notified
him of the meeting. ~

I had tried to get in touch with
Mr. Burns three times during the
time that the Editor had indicated
to me that he would be in his hotel
room, but on all three occasions he
was not there. I managed to get
him at six o’clock. He told me that
the Editor had been in touch with
him on the previous day, and asked
him to stop work on the book; he
had refused to do this, saying that
he had instructions from Mr.

tues ahs I 46 Semone He en- |

tertained, quite properly, the re
quest that the dedication to the |

late Professor Richter be included

in the book. The Editor apparently

questioned our authority, and he
consented to the Editor’s request
that he meet the Editor, Mr. Lomas
and I to discuss the matter. He
repeated his earlier statement to
the effect that he had been most
relieved when we had told him that
we would complete the book. I gave
him my reasons for declining to
attend the proposed meeting, and
told about the Council meeting that
night, and he said that he would be
glad to accept whatever the Council decided to do. I might say at
this point that Mr. Burns throughout the whole unpleasant business
has been unfailingly patient and
courteous, and that the Council
should be very grateful indeed for
this.

At the meeting that night I outlined the developments which had
led to the present circumstances,
and relinquished the Chair upon a
motion from the meeting to that
effect. Mr. Coles represented the
Editor, and presented the same
arguments, with the added factor
of the Editor’s action in having all
the missing pictures engraved in
any ease. He explained to the
Council that no time would be lost,
very little discretion left to the
Editor, and that the complete book
was better than the present one.*

The Council decided to ask the
Editor to hand over his material
to a committee, which was to complete the book as originally planned. Subsequent management
would also be left entirely in the
hands of the committee. Mr. Caldwell was dismissed as Editor of the
book, and a motion was passed, at
his request, to the effect that he be
given credit for the work done by
him that was being handed to the
committee.

The committee proceeded to
Kentville and completed the book
and received all material from Mr.
Caldwell. I have letters from Mr.
Burns confirming this and the arrival of the books in Halifax. They
are at the binders now.

Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR MOREIRA
President.

*The statement in this paragraph to the effect that Mr. Coles repre
sented the Editor is not correct:

Mr. Coles acted upon what he consid
ered to be the important considerations of the situation, in the exercise
of his responsibilities as a Council member only, and not as representing the Editor. An amendment of the report to this effect was passed

by the Council, and the report is amended accordingly.

—A.M.

 

Refresh... Add
Zest To The Hour

Drive

I aired a

Play
Refreshed

NYT
a Eee

Yt
v

 

1BiiteL
Cait iat

Eure
Carrara

NG
Ca irate

459X

TUNE IN Every Sunday Evening

EDGAR BERGEN with CHARLIE McCARTHY
Dominion Network & CFRB-8:00 p.m. E.S.T.
Consult your newspaper for time and station

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

 

os é
es <4 Z
Le
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

Ridin Play Best Ras | Los
rj Hold Axemen for Two Periods

th a seven-goal surge in the third period, the Acadia Axemen
om behind to trim the Dal Tigers in what was the best game
fans have seen in this year’s Senior Intercollegiate League. The
‘eame up with their finest display of the season as they matchal for goal during the first two periods with the power-backed
on, , who are pares leading the Valley Senior League.
, goalie Bill Janes was called upon
to do some great work in the Dal
citadel. Janes took a bad clip
across the head from a stick late
in the frame, and shortly after, the
Kelly-men knotted the count at 3-3
when Jack MacNeil scored on a
long shot. The play began to get
rough and big Gooch Bateman and
Dave Jardine went to the penalty
| box for fighting.

Janes was unable to come out
for the third period, and Bliss Leslie donned the pads for the Tigers.
The Axemen began to put on the
pressure and the Bengal defence
weakened as the Red and Blue
pucksters, led by long John MacAskill, roared in on Bliss time and
again. The score stood at 913 for
the Kelly-men before Murray Malloy potted a pass from Johnny
Williston at the 15 minute mark.
Acadia scored again before the
final whistle, giving them a 10-4
win,

High scorer for the Tigers was
Johnny Wiliston who netted one
goal and two assists. Gordy MacKenzie of the Axemen had five
assists and Johnny McAskill with
four goals to his credit played the
best game on the ice. Captain
Jamie Anglin and the three other
defence-men, White, Ellis, and
Mattison, all gave a stand-out performance.

ths 1 pass phat Calbeck in the
dia nets. Two minutes later
ton and MacQuarrie teamed
tae) the Bengals a two goal

Tempers flared ie the secA ond period, and both squads spent
most of the frame with a man in

the sin-bin. The Tigers’ lack of

_ conditioning began to tell, and

Meet Your Friends at
THE

‘Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

NURSING

As a Career

Dalhousie University provides
a five-year course leading to the
degree of Bachelor of Nursing
Science. Graduates will find
ready employment at a high
level in the nursing profession.
Three years from matriculation
standing are spent in university
and two years in hospital. Students interested who are now
pursuing Science Courses should
communicate with the Registrar’s Office for further details.

STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and
Sundries, and for wunexcelled
Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

 

“The Students’ Drug

NOTICE
The Girls’ Varsity Badminton
Team has been posted and the
following will make the trip over
to Mount Allison on the 2nd and

3rd of March. — Joanne Beau
bien, Kathy Gubbins, Estelle
Martin, and Heather MacKinnon.

Gals Held to Tie

In AnnualGame

Anyone dropping in at _ the
Forum last Tuesday between one
and two would have beheld a rather
amusing sight. The Girls’ hockey
team was engaged in a rip-roaring
game with a team composed of 8
members of the (so-called) stronger sex. The final score read 6-6.

Franny Doane was defending the
nets for the girls. The boys took
turn between the pipes, (guess
they all wanted to find out what
it’s like to have five girls coming
at them at once.)

The girls play a much faster
game, and they were considerably
slowed down by the pace set by the
other team. This made a big difference in their brand of hockey.

Al Greene worked hard, in fact
the girls nearly had to carry him
off. Scotty Henderson put in a
good game. George Tracy worked
like a Trojan (and skated like one
too), but unfortunately he concentrated his efforts more on chasing
the girls than getting goals.

The line-ups were: Girls—Fran
Doane, Joan McCurdy, Jan Robertson, Carol Chipeswick, Ruth Bulmer, Ann Tompkins, Joyce Carney,
Connie Cyr, Marj Yeadon, Carol
Wood, Marian McCurdy, Jean MacLeod, Jean Mitchell and A. Nolan.

Boys: Henderson, Boswell,
Greene, Tracy, Genge, McEwen
and DeMers.

Capitol Music Co.

RADIOS, RECORDS, APPLIANCES, MUSICAL INSTRU
MENTS, JEWELLERY

Phone 3-6425
21 Blowers Street

Complete Line of
Easy Terms

 

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES
9, Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

 

 

     

All Dalhousians Can
Eat Cheaply
AT

Evangeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.
Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
.Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m, - 12 Midnight

 

the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
You can’t buy better
school pencils !

 

RELIABILITY...


INTEGRITY...

Corsages

   

NURSERIES: Limited.

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

The Eastern Trust Company

PROTECTION

— For over 50 years expert administrators of
Funds, Securities and Estates

Branches in six
Eastern Provinces

- HEAD OFFICE: 184 HOLLIS STREET
- HALIFAX, N, S.

CGC ES SS —  —  ————  ———  —————  ———————————————n— carer — — — n——————— SS ooassssSsS9Sssssan

ee cis Trim Ski oias Two Straight _

In Semi-finals of Intermediate Play

The Dalhousie Intermediates moved into the City basketball finals during the week, by virtue of their two game win
over Shearwater in the League semi-finals. The Tigers defeated the “Flying Sailors” 49-44 in a closely played game at
the Shearwater Gym last Tuesday, and virtually sunk them
62-37 in the second game on Wed. at the Dal gym. Dalhousie now await the outcome of the Dal Grad-Stadacona series
“ play the winner for the Halifax Intermediate Championship.
ee a a BD te a as In the first game of the series

DAL GRADS EDGE
‘B’ GIRLS 20-13

The Dal Grads chalked up their
second win over the Girls “B” team
on Tuesday night by a score of
20-13. Both teams showed a great
deal of improvement since their
last encounter. The Dal girls
were superior on the ball handling,
they’re beginning to make all the
passes count. The Grads came into
the spotlight in the shooting department. They got right in there
on the boards and their superior
quality showed through. Eileen
Landrigan and Marg O’Neil turned
in excellent games on the forward
line, with Joyce Parker putting in
a strong game on the guard line.

The Dal guards played a firm
game from start to finish. Marj.
MacLean showed up well for the
forwards. Fouls were dished out
in ample quantity with the Dal
girls getting their share.

HAMILTON CAPTURES
WINS IN DAL MEET

Noel Harhilton successfully defended his Men’s Singles title in
the Dal Badminton tournament last
Wednesday and Thursday. He defeated Doug Rouse, 15-9, 15-3.

In the Men’s Doubles final, Al
Cleveland partnered by Noel Hamilton defeated Doug Rouse and
Dave Nicholson in a classily contested match. The scores were
11-15, 15-8, 15-12, Cleveland played brilliantly considering that he
had had little sleep for the three
nights previous to the tournament.
It is rumoured that Cleveland’s
fine playing was due to the fact
that instinct guided his hand.

Kathy Gubbins, a new student at
Dalhousie was defeated in a hard
fought match by Joanne Beaubien,
11-9, 1-11, 11-15. Estelle Martin
and Joanne Beaubien teamed up to
take the Ladies’ Doubles from
June Baker and Kathy Gubbins,
15-8, 8-15, 15-5.

In the Mixed Doubles, Connie
Cyr, who had not played badminton before, but who played exceedingly well in this tournament,
teamed up with Noel Hamilton and
played Ned Banks and Joanne
Beaubien in the final. The latter
won by scores of 18-16, 8-15, 15-11.

the Shearwater aggregation put up
an unexpectedly strong showing,
holding the usually high-scoring
down and trading them basket for
basket’ through the entire game.
Henderson and MacDonald led the
Tigers during the first half with
9 points each while Service was
big man for the sailors with 10.
The score at half time was 28-25
for Dalhousie. The second half
half was equally close with the
Tigers, led by Andy MacKay and
Red Finlay, gradually pulling away
from their close-checking opponents. The Shearwater quintet,
however, sparked by the accurate
shooting of Duggan came roaring
back and as the final whistle
sounded, the scoreboard read 49-44
for the Tigers. Duggan with 16
was high man for the evening.

The second game played at the
Dal Gym was a little better from
the Dal standpoint. The Tigers
played heads-up ball and after a
shaky start left the hapless Shearwater quintet far behind. The
Airmen held the Bengals to a two
point lead durin gthe first half as
the Dal boys had trouble with the
rim. Service led the scoring parade during the first half with 9
points and Conally for Dal had 8.
The score at halftime was 22-20 for
the Tigers.

The Dal boys really came to life
during the second half outscoring
the visitors 40-17. Mahon was high
man and individual star of this
half, hitting the nets for 13 points.
Duggan had 5 points for Shearwater.

 

Compliments of

JOE and TOM

Diana Sweets
Tea Room

The students recreation centre

Ui hed Za eau.

“DANCING
SATURDAY

 

Tew el 7.

 

LORD NELSON HOTEL

Coffee Shop
Open
Sundays

7 A.M. UNTIL 11 P.M.

es =

 

be

~4

|

|

 

ro


] \

ks,
