 
 

         

»

 

 

Vol. LXXXII

 

| meni ar 
wt ” a

&

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1950

ey , B
. pA yg am owe oe |

INNOUNCES NEW DEAN Fan aot

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

? ; eet 4 Ecea’ eae
4 Ptah ra 5 oe cx

    
  
  
  

Present

Council
Card

VOTE!

 

No. 34

 

x

  

ANDIDATES PRESENT ELECTION

PLATFORMS AT STUDENT FORUM

Re aE nies Cheese Horace - Flection » Slated Candidates Make

Read as New Dean of Law Faculty

me

Finances, Pharos,
BleachersDiscussed
At Student Forum

A Student Forum was held in the
Gymnasium Tuesday to continue
the discussion of the Agenda of
Thursday’s meeting.

The first matter to be discussed
was the part the Students should
play in the financing of the rink to
be constructed on the campus by
the University.

A committee was appointed to
look into the question of finances.
Dick Miller was selected as Chairman; other members were Don
Kerr, Bob McInnes, Gay Esdale,
Jean Beaubien, and Stratos Poulos.

Next on the agenda was the
1949-1950 Pharos. Purchase of this
year’s Pharos, Art Moreira explained, will be optional. Money
paid by students for this purpose
upon registration will be refunded
to all but graduating students.

Those students wishing to obtain
a book will have to pay their
money back again. Due to the delay in the 1948-1949 Pharos it was
felt that ads should not be solicited until the advertisers could be
assured of something worthwhile.
As it is now too late to enlist advertising there will be no ads and
the sinking fund will make up the
deficit.

The question of payment for the
bleachers and the consequent matter of student admission to games
were discussed, Next year students
will pay a minimum of 10c and a
maximum of 25e per game at the
discretion of the Gates Receipts
Committee of the Students’ Council
to help meet the deficit in student
finances.

NOTICE

Will all students still having
SCORES and LIBERETTOS for
the recent light opera, “Pirates of
Penzance” please return them to
the Glee Club office by Wednesday,
March 8th.

President Kerr has announced
the appointment by the Board of
Governors of Professor Horace
Emerson Read of the University of
Minnesota Law School as the new
Dean of Law at Dalhousie. Dr.
Read is a graduate of the Dalhousie Law School and for some
time was the George Munro professor of Law here.

After graduating from Dal he
spent several years as a research
scholar at Harvard and obtained
his degree of Doctor of Jurisprudence. He is well known to most
law students and to the whole legal
profession through his publications.

Dr. Read served in the first
World War with the Canadian Expeditionary Force, and later with
the Royal Flying Corps, and in
World War 2 he was connected
with the Canadian Department of
Naval Affairs, representing the
Minister, the Hon. Angus L. MacDonald , at various important
Inter-Commonwealth meetings. He
rewrote the Canadian Naval Laws
and was awarded the O.B.E.

Dr, Read is regarded by the
members of his profession as one
of the very top legal scholars and
teachers in Canada. He will take
up his duties as the new Dean of
the Dalhousie Law School on June
15th of this year.

Blood Donor Clinic
Betier than before

On Monday and Tuesday of this
week the Canadian Red Cross held
a Blood Donor Clinic in the Lower
Gymnasium. One-hundred and
forty students made the supreme
sacrifice, while five were rejected.
Everyone who made an appointment showed up, but the question
is, “What is wrong with the other
fourteen hundred and fifty-five,
red-blooded Dalhousie students.”

Last fall a similar clinie was held
at Acadia. Five hundred donors
came forward to give their all for
the old red and blue. Yet at a University twice the size less than one
third as many people saw fit to
come forward and support this
most worthy cause.

Three Entries in Connolly Shield

Three plays, the entries of three
organizations for the Connolly
Shield, were enacted last night in
the Dalhousie Gymnasium. King’s
College, Delta Gamma and the
Arts and Science Society were
the three entries submitted in the
competition.

“Bros at Breakfast” was produced by King’s. In the cast were Don
Trivett as Crito, Lloyd Gesner as

_Chremes, Don Clark as Aristo
-phenes, Charlie Collie as Parmeno
and Joan MeCurdy as Hepatica.
Delta Ga apes a on oe

Jeita }

i ae et 4 fA a a
of Pa

 

   
  

Wns, <3 rr "
~

ate th Bo

 

| Competition Held Last Night in Gym

Morning Very Early”. Willa Seeley played the part of Elizabeth
Pratt. Accompanying her were
Ida McKeigan, Eva Powell, Norma
Messenger and Doreen Nathenson
“Campbell of Kilmohr” was produced by the A. & S. Society, directed by George Tracy. Actors on
the set were Robin MeNeil, Anne
Thexton, Harold Stevens, Gretchen
Hewat, A. G. Stacey and Michael
Delory.

Professor Bennet acted ds Adjudicator and will announce the
winner on Munro Day.

“The Lifetime of Mesons”,

 

For March 7th Campaign Speeches

Campaigns for the Presidential and Vice-Presidential
elections were opened at yesterday’s student forum with the
nominees appearing before the student body for the first

The student election will be held
March 7. Polling booth for Arts
and Science, Commerce, and Engineers will be the Common Room
in the Men’s Residence. Meds,
Dents Pharmacy and Law will
have their booth in the Forrest
Building.

The polls will be open from 9
a.m. until 6 p.m., and students must
present their council cards in order
to vote. Voting lists will be found
in the Men’s Residence and at Forrest. If there are any errors,
please notify Ralph Hill, 3-2585.

‘49 Year Book
Now Available

Year books are coming to the
campus as they are bound downtown. Today, 210 copies came, to
be followed by about 300 on Saturday. Those who got their books
without signing their caution deposits over for next year are requested to appear at the year book
office at any time and do so if
they wish to do so. On Saturday,
from about 11:00 till 12:30, Al

Lomas will be in the gym store to}

give out some 200 copies, and he
will be at Forrest campus to distribute another 100 at about 1:00.
Distribution will be considerably
aided if all students have their
Council cards with them when they

ask for their books, since, other
identification will have to be |
shown if Council ecards are not}
available,

Camera Lost

A small camera in a black case,
a Kodah Bantam f4.5, was lost on

the campus late last week. This |
was being used for photos for the

Pharos and Gazette and is very
important for this work. Would

‘the finder please return it to the.

Gazette office or phone Dipe Marshall at 2-2444,

NOTICES

‘The Physics and Chemistry |
Journal Club will meet in the
Physics Theatre on Tuesday, March |
7 at 5 p.m. The first speaker, Dr.
J. H. L. Johnstone, will discuss |

F, MacLennan, the second speaker,

will deal with “Oxygen Isotope
Exchange in the Electric Discharge”.

a

Dr. and Mrs. Kerr wil entertain
the members of the Dalhousie Glee
and Dramatic Society at afternoon
tea from 3 to 6 p.m., Saturday
afternoon, March 4th. All students
who have actively participated
throughout the year are cordially
invited to attend.

   

time.

 

Decision to Build
Rink Hailed by
D.A.A.C. Prexy

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear Sir,—

On behalf of the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club I wish to express sincere appreciation to Dr.
Kerr and the Board of Governors
for their action in deciding to
build a rink on the Studley Campus. This rink will fill an urgent
need and will prove of the utmost
value as a winter recreational and
sports centre.

It has been through Dr. Kerr’s
unceasing effort that this project
has been made possible for the students. To him we extend congratulations and thanks.

The Senate has come to recognize the value of athletics in our
college curriculum. This is evi
the Physical Director, is
certain Senate meetings.
an unprecedented step in Univer
sity-Student Athletic relations.

benefit ‘to the student body. I am

‘sure that all students,

 

| show their appreciation.
ROBERT B. WILSON,
President, D.A.A.C.

Covettes

Co-Vettes will meet in the Engineers’ Common Room on Tues'day, March 7 at 8.15 p.m. Miss
Ellen Piers will speak on The Development of the Young Child. All
students’ wives are cordially
vited to attend.

The results of these two an- tee, in the
nouncements will prove of great|tion that students contribute $10,
realizing | |This money, or a
| this, will do everything possible to} | thereof, will be*spent to install :
| specially

 

 

As each of the four were introduced, he outlined or
elaborated on his team platform.

©

Nominees from the Law School
were introduced by Gordon Coles.
Mr. O’Hara, Law’s candidate for
President, said only that he would
do his best to carry out his duties,
but that he could make no promises since he was not at present
familiar with campus affairs.

Eric Kinsman, Law’s candidate
for Vice-President, outlined a fivepoint campaign platform which
highlighted a referendum for next
year’s Pharos, and better studentfaculty relations,

Sherman Zwicker and Andrew
MacKay, nominees from the Arts
and Science Society, were introduced by George Tracy. Mr.
Zwicker predicted a trying year for
Dalhousie, in that enrolments and
consequently Students’ Council
fees would decrease. But, he said,
he would do all in his power to
keep activities at their present
levels, and improve such aspects as
were not satisfactory at present.

Mr. MacKay focussed attention

dent by the fact that Mr. Vitalone,|0n the declining student spirit here,
now | 4nd promised to attempt a regengranted the privilege of attending | eration of that and of cooperation
This is| between students and alumni.

The forum closed with a report
from the Council’s Rink Commitform of a recommenda
rink.
ere

000 to the eost of the new
major

adaptable floor in the
| rink. A further recommendation
|'was made to the effect that these
lfunds be raised by special campus
levents, to be carried on for
years.

two

Both recommendations were accepted by the forum, with an
amendment on the second, providing that a more concrete plan for
fund-raising be instituted if first

in-| attempts on the present basis are
| not successful.

 

Drama Festival to Take Place in Gym
Dal, Acadia and Mount A. Participate

| Tomorrow night, March 4, there®———————

‘will be presented in the Dalhouste
Gymnasium the Inter-University

Mr. D.| Drama Festival which will feautre

Falavs by Dalhousie, Acadia and
Mount Allison.
After a great amount of organization, the final plans for this festival were laid a few weeks ago. It
is the first of its kind to appear in
the Maritimes and as such will
mark a significant milestone in the
history of Drama on the East
Coast. It could lead to greater
things in the realm of co-operation
and understanding between all the
Maritime Universities.
Acadia will present “Swan Song”

by Chekhov. Mount A. will offer
“The Dark Lady of the Sonnets”
by George B. Shaw. Dalhousie
players will reenact exerpts from
Othello.

The cost of admission will be
twenty-five. cents and Student
Council Cards. This was made possible with the co-operation of the
Council.

This promises to be an evening
full of well-balanced entertainment of classical and contemporary
drama. A full turnout is requested that full appreciation of these
efforts may be shown. The curtain
rises at 8:30 Saturday Evening.

 
  
 
  
  
  
  

  

$ OLD DEST COLERGR’ PAPER,
the ft er

: n University Press.

enlarge Council of Dalhousie

ons @: sed are not necessarily those of the

l, For. es rite Business Manager,

ig ‘ifax, N. Ss:
, Bruce Lockwood

rete wees a Wierere a he
. Maurice Foisy

    
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
       
   
   
 

   

 
  

ge

in ae aeece SP aaa see oe RAR se ¢

nager | . Murray Higgins
oes _ EDITORIAL STAFF

rs Dsrieddes cere ae os) Vane MacIntosh
at EAT TE er bead tl, Valerie Cato
Pa tas), ae Marj Golberg
2 Baitors deity Tea a ee toe
ito S eee ve ; : eros re
ties a. # tees heeae | ee eee eee ees Pee Ahern
en! Pas gtr eae ik S100, 08 6’ 6 @ br e.6\6 6 6) ) 29 @ees eo nnd
Veep rter Ree ree Saat ks sels eke es waite» aip jue
Ae PaaS rd ls S Sbw Db web Bi eie Ai Wile ¥je/doel eld ole\e. dies Barbara McGeoch

PS sees sa as _ Bob McInnes, Noel Goodridge, Betty Livingstone
E ¢ oe Seegar
fe (ee * ese se eeese Seeeetseeeoneeseeveveanegans n Soberman
een eee eee tener eee ne Stu Wallace, ieatriee MacDonald
aes ar eee ees Genie ai Lifes SMI Wraleie' scam diese Lucy Calp

"FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1950 No. 34

~ COUNCIL COVERAGE

i At i thie Student Forum Tuesday a student suggested
it the Council should have taken a page or two of the
a tte to explain at lenth what it was doing about
hances , decreased revenue, and other matters.

Sr the Council were to explain fully in the Gazette
mS ioe rything that it did, there would not be room for
a eae er material. The much-abbreviated reports on the
m Year earbook took up the greater part of three Gazettes,
Ba and they dealt with but one of many questions discussed
____ by the Council at its meetings this year. In addition to
| eae on important topics were published on the

 
    
  
   
    
 
  
 
 
   
 
    
   
   
   
    
    
  
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
   

Ry Br . Not ot ‘only would it be impossible from a journalistic
ah point of view, but it would be contrary to the Constitue eee for the Council to insist upon the inclusion of such
as a material. Full discretion for all that is printed in the
_ Gazette rests with the Editor and the Council cannot
tell him what to publish. If they are dissatisfied, their
& recourse » is to dismiss the Editor; but as regards the
ublication of material the Council stands on the same
footing as other organizations on the campus, and can
_ only request that something be published. In fact, such
ne a request is never refused, but the Editor has the power
“4 to do. so.
oe vo This year the Gazette published as much about the
ra - activities of the Council as was considered would be of
fies int erest to the greatest number of the students. Council
5 ‘ _ meetings are open to all members of the Student Body
AS and those who have interest in a particular aspect of its
SAS: activities have the opportunity to attehd these meetings
. es and see for themselves how the Council deals with any
He matter of particular interest to their group. If they
fail to take advantage of this they should not complain
because the Gazette has not printed a full report of the
- Council’s deliberations on subjects of interest to their
a particular faction only, and not of interest to the
~ student body at large. After all, every word said in
_ Parliament i is not record in the newspapers. :

DOES THIS APPLY HERE

Lippe! th Of late the condition of the Student’s Union Builda _ ing has been comparable to that of a garbage dump. On
the ground floor, half eaten lunches are to be found
_ everywhere Ash-trays have been spilled, chairs and
- eard tables have been left in both rooms, empty and
half filled coke bottles are spread throughout the building, ready to be either broken or knocked over. In the
-eard room on the second floor cigarette butts are being
P Rathasabity ground into the floor.

_ THE SOLUTION
ya ‘Re. Ash-trays:

This problem is easily solved. Use the ash-trays
provided; there are plenty to go around. The time
_ taken to ‘empty one occasionally (there are waste-paper

: ee ~ baskets in every room) would greatly lessen the fire
ae i “hazard,

Re. Cokes:

There are shelves provided for bottles; how simple

iti is to put the bottles on these shelves.

Re. Cigarettes:

__ Please do not grind cigarette butts into the floors.
‘This is a very dangerous practice. Ash-trays are proRate ie ‘ic ed for this purpose.

=f e £ AN ALTERNATIVE
These abuses result from carelessness and laziness,
: au. and simple. If conditions do not improve immelr he ‘diately the following thing will happen:
Nei Res _ The persons: responsible for these offences will be

a) ao _ brought before the judicial committee liable to fine and

suspension from the Students’ Association, losing rights
ee He to the use of the Students’ Union.

  

—_

  

 
 

beset, |

Don Atkinson,
House Manager.
Peete with alterations from the “Carleton”

Dent Notes

We had another party at Mulave Park on Saturday night |

 
          
   
 
  
 

   
  

Al 2 all reports was another fine|ies to some.
} | alae, Untortanately Iwas unable} #8 «© * #

  

Beer eset arty ere ere iv. were 6'8.& d's oe eie & Alfred Harris;
Se ee ek A S'S /¢) 6) 8 6 B20: \0.'0 0 9) © 9.018

agreed they had a good time —
music supplied by all the best
bands in the land complete even to
“Ragg Mopp”’— which I hear may
|bring back a few pleasant memor
May being confined to bed.| The hockey team is doing very
wever, the 1 port wot uld pr = well this year—they’ve won half

ave no t even if I) the a Gaines so far. —e ve mae)
re, Every sie

Last Friday’s banquet at the

Lord Nelson was generally acjeounted a complete success, and

the best to be held in some years.
Full credit goes to the committee
of Eric Day, Murray Malloy and
Laurie Tufts for making the arrangements, including the all-important job of packing all available
horse-power into the punch!

As Professor Burns Martin remarked, the ‘“Wrenery behind
Wing’s College” has come a long
way since the war. Other guests
were Mr. Anderson of N. S. Light
and Power and Dr. Smith of the
Modern Language Department,
both of whom kept the people
laughing. Professors Theakston,
Bower, and Chisholm, who modestly claim only ten jokes between
them, managed to give some of the
freshmen a jolt as usual when
things got going.

The Bob Walters Memorial
Award, a small but highly prized
embossed “E” in gold, went this
year to Murray Malloy as the best
all-round student of the graduating
class. 1950, incidentally, is the 10th
year in which the prize has been
awarded since its inception after
the death of Bob Walters, killed
in a hunting accident the year
after his graduation.

Ralph Hill, who has been put in
charge of election arrangements
this year, would like to remind one
and all of the Students’ Council
Election Day, next Tuesday, the
7th. Let’s see every Engineer out!

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES
9¥, Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

BIRKS

Headquarters for Quality
Insignia at Favorable
Prices.

If you have your Class Insignia,
why not think of attaching this
to such articles as Identification
Bracelets, Compacts, and many
other useful gifts which may be
seen at Birks.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

 

SAINT ANDREW'S CHURCH

Coburg Road at Robie
SUNDAY, MARCH 5 — 7 P.M.
The major portion of Part II of

Mendelssohn’s “Elijah”

presented by the Choirs of the First Baptist and St. Andrew’s
Sermon: “ELIJAH, THE PROPHET”

 

The Eastern Trust Company
RELIABILITY ... INTEGRITY ... PROTECTION

For over 50 years expert administrators of
Funds, Securities and Estates

Branches in six
Eastern Provinces

HEAD OFFICE: 184 HOLLIS STREET
HALIFAX, N. S.

and be sure!

 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and be Sure”.- We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia
THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES

Degrees of:
Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Commerce Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Education Master of Arts
Bachelor of Music Master of Science

Diplomas in:
Education Hospital Pharmacy
Engineering Mining Geology
Engineering Physics Music
Food Technology Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

C.M.
THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Public
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 available to
students applying for admission from High Schools or Junior
Colleges of the Maritime Provinces, and awar.Jled on the basis
of educational attainments.

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full information as to fees.

courses, residence facilities, and dates of registration.

   
  
 

| DOWOT STICK To Your Lips
C4.-G ARE T
aN ry feu ei ak A fost ae ba atari

~~,

 

   

a

 

 

~
:
’

 

 

 

  
  
  

by Windy O'Neill

 
 

 

  

ety!
Some_ Sime abe. we were looking through the Dalhousie esiendes
the listing of our beloved staff we became quite confused at
opi _to be a type of code following the names of our esteemed
_ Knowing them to be modest men (the more educated and
f are, the less impressed they are with themselves), we can
mpathize with their embarrassment in parading, after the names of
“parila dynasty, such hieroglyphics as (Belf), (Cantab)
' ary), (Manch),

 
   

* DS *

- Wondering how long this has been going on, we wandered
a See the stacks and consulted some old Dal calenders. Back in 1865
we noted that the lights of the teaching staff boasted such solitary
emblems as M.A., LL.D., and Esq. For many years, just below the
distinguished men of letters, and in print of equal size, read “John
_Wilson—Janitor”.. Mr. MacLeod and Mr. O’Brien should look to
heir laurels—after all they have acquired the title of Master of
the Rolls. In the 1890’s, came two degrees usually from different
_ countries, which showed the boys were widely travelled and, of
use, therefore well educated.

* a BS *

ee The logical question is—how did this come about? After reading
an article in a magazine of wide circulation we have no doubt that the
& Excited States to the south had no small hand in the degradation of the
- iploma. In the land of our democratic neighbors even education is
ocratic. Anyone (with the price) can have a D.D., a PH.D., and as; Sorted degrees. One slicker even set up his own university and
managed to have it recognized by the New York State authorities and
_ commenced to sell Bachelors of This and That for sixty-five piastres,
and Doctors of Divinity and Philosophy for one hundred. Such a thing
ots only good sense—look at the work it saves.

% % * *
\ et With all these degrees floating around a lowly BA begins to
_ look pretty sick, and even a Ph.D. has a slight pallor. Of course,
_ the only way to separate the worthy degrees from the dollar
oF - diplomas was to place the name of the dispensing institution thus
y ~ —B.V.D. (Stanfield) or R.A.G.G. (Mop). However, the degree has

  

  
  
   

  

   

  

i

   

descended from a symbol of achievement, to a reference of qualification. No man could possibly give the right slant of history or
law without a BA. We look to the future with trembling anticipation. When the competition gets keen, perhaps THE brackets
ant will become longer, conveying more information. It will probably
be thus—J. Doaks MA (oxon. std 5) or B. Bobbitty M.A (Cantab.
. std. 15 no. in class 80) or B. Bibbitty MA (Harv. 60% but lots out
side activit.) or even B. Boo MA (Manch, natch 67th sick two

& * * * *

i a OSMOSIS DEPARTMENT: The thought just struck us of the
‘ horrible plot against Cape Breton extant these many years. Cape
Bretoners, don’t you realize they are cutting up your esteemed battle‘ft ground .and shipping it abroad where it is burned? Cape Bretoners,

months).
_* arise and defend your beloved mound or you will all become fish!
% Bs a Me
GETTING NEITHER HERE NOR THERE: Of late, there has
been a curtailment of communication on the Intercolonial Railway
due to a (yuk! yuk!!) coal shortage. Some of the railways of the
_ Maritimes are built on top of great sections of dusty diamonds
sometimes called Cape Breton confetti. With this in view, heightened by Ottawa’s increasing disregard, we suggest a slogan for the
_ seaboard provinces—“Martimers, unite! You have nothing to lose
but your trains.”

 

 

en
—_—
ge :

SS a

-_
ve miss

\ fates

~~

 

,
are: Cae

 

 
    
    
 
 

The fused semi-widespread Arno collar is
smooth-fitting, frames your tie-knot smartly.

And all Arrow shirts are SANFORIZED
labelled, guaranteed mever to shrink out of
fit. Good choice, too—whites, plains, stripes.

- See the fine selection at Arrow dealers now.

tt, Peabo

an

BR Co of Scant, aed
oe

eve

 

res se or ae

and Sullivan, the “Pirates of Pen
zance”, although the fourth of the
Glee Club series, was the first

|} operetta produced by a professional

director. The University is fortunate in having Prof. Hamer as director of musical activities among the
students. However, it is interesting to note that, as one looks back
over previous productions, this performance has some qualities that
the others lacked, and at the same
time fell short of some of the virtues of “Pinafore’ ’and “Patience”.

Among the soloists this year, the
men were particularly outstanding,
while only one of the women, Diane
Parker, matched them in performance. The same comment applies to
the chorus; for all their numbers,
the female voices were weak, largely because there was no strong
leader to guide them in either
range. The men, however, were
strong in both voice and action.
Here is where a professional director can either make or break a
show, and Prof. Hamer did not fail
either students or the general public. With the keen insight of a
master in his field, Prof. Hamer
maintained a brisk flow of movement throughout the entire operetta. The dialogue seldom slowed
in pace and the vitality of the
music never lacked humour and
polish.

Gordon Coll, Dick Miller, and
Roy de Young turned in the best
all-round performances among the
men. Coll, as the pirate and king,
moved about the stage with the
naturalness and ease of an old
hand. His strong baritone voice
and clear diction were pleasing to
the ear, but above all Coll’s attitude toward his part spelled success for him; he adopted an almost
devil-may-care expression, quite in
keeping with his brusque and
worldly character. Yet Coll never
over-played his part, and his some
_|what melodramatic reading of the

humour in both dialogue and music
was always amusing.

Dick Miller, as Major-General
Stanley, was required to go
through some fantastic verbal
gymnastics in his patter song, and
he succeeded very well. Miller has
a warm, and pleasing tenor, which
did not always project far enough
out into the gymnasium to be heard
by all the audience. Perhaps the
fear of muddling up his lines if he
sang with force kept him from doing just this. An air of false
pompousness made his character
only more amusing, This air of
false pompousness was carried off
in wonderful style by Roy de
Young, as the police sergeant. Roy
sang and acted his amusing and
satirical part with fine confidence
and understanding, and his robust
baritone voice, especially in his
“noliceman’s lot’, was received
with justified enthusiasm.

Diane ‘Parker, with a minor part,
was the finest performer among
the women. The part of Ruth is
very important in the operetta, and
Diane gave it the warmth and understanding it deserved; her voice
was beautiful, a rich and confident
contralto.

The roles of Mabel and Frederick, the lovers of the story, were
generally well played, although not
as successfully as those people
mentioned above. Ishbel Campbell,
pleasing to the eye, and a smooth
actress, had not the voice, however, to make the part of Mabel
stand out as it should. Although
a trained singer, Ishbel’s voice has
an unfortunate tremolo which is
quite worrisome to the ear. This
is due to the fact that the part was
written for a coloratura soprano,
while Ishbel possesses a lyric soprano. In the light of this, Ishbel
deserves much credit for a role not
suited to her own voice.
her own range her voice is quite
pleasant,

The tenor role of Frederick presents yet another problem. Ronald
Beare has a fine, well trained,
lyrical tenor voice, and showed itself to great advantage in the “Pirates”. Musically, Beare was well

| |east, but not so dramatically, for

he is not suited to lighter roles. In
comedy, he seems unable to relax,
and to appear natural in his stage

J Lsmeayemante: In ‘Don Giovanni” last

*
ee ies

a ads ar

= nage? ‘
‘, t
me i

This year’s production of Gilbert | summer,

Within |

 

by Laurie Allison

with a more straightforward role, Ronald Beare was
seen and heard to more advantage.
The fault is perhaps not his own,
for many singers are restricted to
one type of role. It is a pity then,
that the owner of so fine a voice
could not have been as fine an
actor as singer, especially for Gilbert and Sullivan,

Stan Pearson, as the Lieutenant
to the Pirate King, proved wonderful’ support for his _ superior,
through his adequate voice, and
above all by his stage antics, and

Sympathetic understanding of his

part. In a sense, he is THE
clown of the operetta, a fierce pirate with a “Puckish” side to his
nature.

Three more of the daughters of
the Major-General were generally
well played by Anne Thexton, as
Kate; Marnie Stevenson as Isabel;
and Audrey Powell as Edith. What
these three ladies lacked in volume,
they made up for in beauty.

The girl’s chorus has been mentioned before, but it might be added
that their movements were executed with a surprising grace and
charm. The beautiful, child-like
simplicity of the girls’ was the effect Prof. Hamer strove for, and
they maintained it, until such time
as the men fell into their clutches.

\
Oceasional vocal roughness can

easily be forgiven when the overall
picture given us was so fine. The
same applies to the men, who sang
and acted with all their vigour at
their command. The only incongruous incident applies to the police
squad, who at times looked as untrained as a group of raw recruits
on the parade square for the first
time in the service. Their entrances and exits were very well
done, but their attitudes onstage
in the intervals is the point of this
remark. The full chorus was outstanding in the unaccompanied,
“Hail, Poetry”, toward the end of
the first act, and it revealed a bass
section that has never been heard
before in our choruses. This bass
tone gave the entire an amazing
depth of sound.

The orchestra. followed Prof.

Hamer’s spirited pace with marked |

agility, and it set the tempo too,
for all the action onstage. The
score was never sacrificed to
spoken dialogue, and thus the
music was consistently even in
mood throughout the entire operetta. The stage settings, colourful
and fresh in appearance, provided
an excellent background for the
action of the play.
The “Pirates”, then,

was an e@x
(Continued on page four)

Crimp set NYLON cardigan and short sleeve pullover

 

Two Things That Go
Together—Coke and 5¢

  

 

 

 

TUNE IN Every Sunday Evening
EDGAR BERGEN with CHARLIE McCARTHY
Dominion Network & CFRB-8:00 p.m. E.S.T,
Consult your newspaper for time and station

 

Ask for it either way
.+ both trade-marks
mean the same thing.

    
    

ON

507X

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

 

Ne ee ew

et A A, i

mt - mo

ae

i a a mc ee ee cet a

F + —_
ee

‘imi ee

 

 
   
      
 
      
 
     
    
      
    
  

        
       
    
     
   

 
      
      
     
     
        
 
        
    
    

56 18h
 
  
  
  
   
    
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
     
  
  
   
  
    
 
 

‘For the first time in years, Dal
girls’ varsity basketball team took

ait

7 U ery

a commanding lead in the Marieo _ time Intercollegiate playoffs when
‘they swamped Mount Allison varsity 87-8, last Saturday at Sack____ ville. This was the first of a two
game total point series, the second

Dal took an early lead in the
first minute of play; Gay Esdale
_ pulled down a pass and broke loose
to flip in a long one-hander. Following up in quick succession with
_ two points apiece were line-mates
vs Betty Cousins and Marilyn Mac -—[Intyre. At the 4 minute mark,
Erm Thompson, starry forward for
the Mounties slipped in a side shot
for the locals first tally.

From then on the Dal squad
dominated the play. Superior zoning by the Evans-coached guard
line kept the Mt. A. shots at a
minimum, and the snappy ball
handling exhibited by the CousinsMacIntyre-Esdale line combined
with their usual sharp shooting accounted for 33 of Dal’s 37 points.
Both teams were visibly.nervous
early in the game, and fouling was

     
   
   
 
      
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
    

O’HARA

; PRES. STUDENT COUNCIL
RB NE AN Vb A AI YRS dE CESS

STUDENT APATHY

VOTE AS YOU LIKE
BUT VOTE O’HARA

, Aa
a ae Be ae
4 . = fei ‘2
7 ¢

+> Seer Mer yal ee

  

      

 

ee iresses Take Commanding Lead,
_ All Set for Second Game of Series

heavy, with 14 fouls called on Dal
and 13 on Mt. A. Of these Dal
made 7 and Mt. A. made 2. Thompson, high-scorer for Sackville, left
the game in the fourth quarter
with 4 personal fouls.

While both teams played a fast
game, the Dal squad displayed all
round superiority offensively and
defensively. Score at half time was
27-5 and at full time 37-8.

Pirates -
(Continued from page three)

tremely successful show, but it was
not so far ahead of previous productions as many people seem to
think. Many students, in appraising this operetta, have tended to
belittle ““Pinifore”’, ‘‘Patience”’, and
“Trial by Jury’’. In doing this, they
play down, perhaps unconsciously,
the work the Glee Club has done in
this field over a period of four
years. Although the general impression given by the “Pirates”
was more lifelike and polished, last
years production had a _ better
chorus, and its soloists were more
even in performance. “Pinafore”’
too, had good soloists, although

LOOK!!
THE MARITIME LIFE

“The Home Company”

Has a Plan to fit every
need
Consult its representatives at any time,

Call

Robert E. Hart
City Representative
for prompt service.
Phones: Office—3-8157 Home—3-4098

Addresses: Office—Green Lantern Bldg.
Home—9 Rosebank Ave,

TRIM TA

Dal-X Game Bengals ie Galas Take 18 Point
On Saturday Margin in Nova Scotia Semi-Finals _

4
1

_ a ead) ieee eo Cane

 

This Saturday the Varsity basketball and Hockey squads will
journey to Antigonish to take on
the Xaverians in the final games of
this season’s Intercollegiate
schedule. The Girls Varsity hoopsters will also make the trip and
meet the Mt. St. Bernard girls in
an exhibition encounter.

The X-Men are heavy favorites
to take the hockey tilt because of
their previous wins over both Dal
and Acadia. However, the Black
and Gold pucksters will be playing
all out in their wind-up game.

The basketball game will be the
big attraction for most of the spectators, however. In their last meeting the Dal cagers took a 32-31
win over last year’s Dominion Intermediate champs onthe Dal gym
floor, in the final second of play.
The game was probably the most
exciting encounter ever seen in the
Maritimes.

Tickets for the chartered buses
can. be obtained, for the price of
$5.00 from Mr. O’Brien, Rudy Levy,
or Don Kerr,

few trained voices, but it also displayed a magnificent enthusiasm
for the spirit of the show itself,
Furthermore, a professional has his
whole time devoted to music;
music and its production is his
field, and unlike student directors,
does not have to worry about the
time taken from classes to be put
into a student performance. Prof.
Hamer has given us a _ performance of remarkable gusto and finished quality, and we may rest assured that his future productions
wil not fall short of what we all
witnessed in the “Pirates’’.

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price
for Young Men

APLOA
Qi cB a ey

3
=

——

 

       
  
 

   

 
 

oo
WARN \y \

Ww

 

 

}

 

 

Cagers Beat Mt A. .Co-Eds In Maritime Finals
*

RS TO TAKE TITL

 

Taking their 18th and 19th
straight league victories, the Dalhousie Tigers edged the Stadacona
aggregation by a 43-41 count and
trounced the Acadia Axemen 54-36
in the opening game of the Nova
Seotia Intermediate play-offs.

On Saturday evening the Bengals journeyed to the Stadacona
Gym to meet the Sailors in the
second game of a_ best-of-three
Halifax Intermediate League
finals. In the first game, the Tigers won in the last second by a
42-41 score. During the second encounter the Tars led most of the
way, and with less than a minute
remaining, the Bengals trailed
40-39. With 40 seconds remaining
Seott Morrison of the Tigers sank
a beautiful one-hand shot from the
side, and the Dalhousians took a
42-41 lead. The Navy came back
strong but on two successive occasions Charlie Connely stole the ball
and threw back the Sailor attack.
Arp Robertson gave the Tigers a
two point lead by sinking a free
throw, and the contest ended with
the Bengals in possession.

On Tuesday evening at the Dal
Gym the new champions took a big

18 point lead in the Nova Scotia|a gym dance following the game.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE —

   

 

Bu,
bo

Intermediate semi-finals as they
trimmed the Acadia Axemen by a

score of 54-36 in a _ lack-luster
game. The Tigers spotted the

5

Geary-men a four point lead early
inthe first half but came roaring
back to take the lead at half-time.

The Bengals were never again
threatened despite the stand-out
performance turned in by “Foo”
McPherson of the Axemen, who ?
scored 10 points and directed the
Acadia play throughout the game.

Mahon and Morrison played
strong games for the Dalhousians,
scoring 10 and 7 points respectively. For the Axemen, McPherson,
White, and Hart were the standouts.

The Bengals went to Acadia last
night to wind up the series, and if
successful will meet the St. F.X.
squad in the Provincial finals.

NOTICE

The championship game in the
Girls’ Inter-collegiate Basketball
series will be played in the Gym /¢
tonight at 7.80 between Dal and
Mt. A. Dal now has a 29 point
lead in the series. There will be

te

~,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

gf “Now I have to make sure

eer te

ae tee

¥ os v =
Se Ss
2 2 =~
m= > Ss
= — .
——_
= SS

    

=(warring

= ~. 3 Gee = 5 v
= BS anrtamenc . Sens

BOB Wiksoy ==

 

  

‘vit
‘a my kid brother passes, too!”

With that kid brother of his in tow,
Egbert finds things are tough all over.

 

But — at the risk of being repetitious
— there is one problem he learned to
solve long ago. That’s the problem of
how to make sure he always has money
for every emergency. He operates a
“fatality fund” at “MY BANK”, never
runs out of cash any more, since he
started dropping his spare cash into his
B of M account. Now he’s got the saving habit.

 

   
     
     

U4-7

    
   
     
  

- aa PRE... Oates

Bank or MonrTREAL

“Pardon me, Mr. Wes. Bang! May I ask to

what you ascribe your phenomenal success?”

“Sure! A lot of practice—and a little ‘Vaseline’

Hair Tonic every day to ‘check’ Dry Scalp and
_keep my hair in position.”’

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

TRADE MARK

 

Cauadas First Sank

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

 

Halifax Branch:

North End Branch:
Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

JOHN A. HOBSON, Mer.

JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mer.
CHARLES SMITH, Mer.

JAMES L. MeGERRIGLE, Mer.

i
_—i“‘#;”s*sOAWASELINE’ 19 THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESEBROUGH MFG. CO. CONS’D.
ee ‘ : ;

ae

se


    

7
_ SY
