   

SMOKER IN

  
 

ap “LAW BALL

GYM
WEDNES.,
EVENING

pisiat

 
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   

 

 

America’s Oldest College Paper
% Vol. LXXXII HALIFAX, N. S.,; TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1949 No. 9

    
 
  

 
   

 

Sir James Learmonth (above), outstanding Scottish surgeon, and phy-»

sician to His Majesty the King, was in Halifax last week in connection
with the recent series of Sir John Stewart Memorial lectures sponsored

by the Dalhousie Medical School.

Noted British Pi pilchan and Ties
Delivers Lecture to Halifax Audience

7 GE

Annual Law Ball to
Be Friday Evening

The annual Law Ball is to be
held this coming Friday in -the
cosmopolitan atmosphere of the
Ball Room of the Nova Scotian
Hotel. There will be dancing to
the music of Les Singles and his
orchestra from nine o’clock to one.

Chaperones will be Mr. and Mrs.
V. C, MacDonald, The Honourable
Mr. Justice and Mrs. J. L. Ilsley,
Mr. and Mrs. T. N. Feeney, Mr.
and Mrs. T, H. Coffin, Mr. and
Mrs. W. Lederman,

The Ball will be held under the
distinguished patronage of Sir
Joseph Chisholm, The Honourable
and Mrs. Angus L. Macdonald, Mr.
and Mrs. W. C. Dunlop and Dr. and
Mrs. Kerr.

Two hundred couples are expected to attend. Tickets are being
sold at the Law School by the
Dance Committee consisting of Al
Trites, Bill Pearson and Stu Wallace. Monsieur O’Brien is selling
tickets on Studley Campus.

This is an annual affair and the
success of last year’s Ball was so
overwhelming that all those who
judge by previous experience will
certainly look forward to this
year’s version of the Law boys’
“ efforts.

oa as a

 
 

ae
} ea a
' 45

pe Sy
hast: es
= 4 rs,

H

   

eneral surgeon and distinguished medical teacher, Sir James R.
Learmonth, private surgeon in
Seotland to His Majesty the King,
gave the first lecture of the Sir
John Stewart Memorial Lectures
last Thursday evening at the Camp
Hill Auditorium under the sponsorship of the Dalhousie Medical
School.

Sir James is the Regius Professor of Surgery and Professor of
Clinieal Surgery at Edinburgh University. Besides his duties as His
Majesty’s personal surgeon he is
on the staff of the Royal Infirmary in Edinburgh. Last Thursday’s lecture completed his visit fo
the United States and Canada on a
speaking tour.

During his stay he attended the
Refresher Course Lectures in Medicine being held at the Lord Nelson Hotel. The Board of Governors and the Senate of the University tendered Sir James a dinner
at the Lord Nelson last Friday. On
Friday evening there was an informal reception in his honour at
the home of Dr. Murray Fraser.

Born in 1895 in southern Scotland, he attended Glasgow University and in 1924 received a Rockefeller Fellowship and studied at
the Mayo Clinic. He returned to
the United States in 1928 to act as
a staff member in the surgery department for four years. During
his first visit, Sir James married a
girl from Vermont, who was then
on the staff of the Clinic. They
have two children; a girl, 22, who
is now doing post-graduate work in
sociology; and a son, 10,

” ” * ~

AL SODALES HOST TO DEBATERS
S CONFERENCE IS HELD AT DAL

 

 

* * *

Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League

Holds Conference at Dal as Topics for
_ Regional and National Debates Discussed

er ee er anes OD

An Open Letter to
Student Body

Your Homecoming Committee
wishes to take this opportunity,
‘through you, to extend an invitation to all parents to visit
Dal. during Homecoming Weekend, Nov. 11-13.

It would be impossible to
write each parent an invitation
so we are taking this medium
of expressing our desire for
them to come. There will be a
registration fee of $2.00 to
cover admissions to the various
functions,

If anybody has any question
or would like further details,
please inquire at the Alumni
Office in the Gym,

Hoping to see as many
ents as possible,

par
Yours very truly,
BERNAL SAWYER,
Chairman, Alumni
Homecoming Com.

Alumni kas to
Be Wednes. Night

The Annual Alumni Smoker, for
all male students of the University,
will be held in the Gymnasium at 8 |
o’clock Wednesday evening. |

The varied program of enter-|
tainment will include Miss Lila!
Treadwell with her piano accordian |
selections, numbers by the Dal-|
housie band, and a skit by an Alumni group of Thespians. Smokes
will be plentiful and refreshments |
will be prepared and served by the |
es of the Alumni.

 

/conversational French, they

| sist of the election of officers, fol
Eleven Universities were present at a Convention of the
Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League held this year at

Dal.

Al Bacardax, President of Sodales, acted as Chairman

or the meetings which were held last Friday and Saturday in

the Engineering Building.
Treasurer.
Law School;
Thomas'’s ; Pine Hill;

 

Gull Gliding Club to!
Hold Meeting Friday

On Friday night in Room 20 of |
the Engineering Building the Gull
Gliding Club will hold a meeting
for the students interested in flying or who are anxious to learn.
Mr. G. G. Dunbax, president of the |
club, informed the Gazette that he
si hoping to form a Dalhousie
branch.

At the meeting the idea of the
club will be outlined and movies
will be shown giving a brief explanation on how gliding is done.

French Circle to Hold
First Meeting Tonight

“La Premiere reunion du Cercle

 

Francais aura lieu mardi soir!” |
That was the general remark |
floating around the campus last

 

week, as notices were posted regarding the first meeting this term |
of the Cercle Francais.

Alf Harris acted as SecretaryThe Universities present were; Mount A.; UNB
King’s College; St. Dunstans;

mt. . X,%
*

St. Mary’s; St.
U.N.B.; Acadia; and Dal.
Dr. Scammel opened the conference on Friday with a brief ad|dress on the importance of debating. He felt that every college stu'dent should regard debating as a
necessary part of university life.
The MIDL plans to. write
NFCUS headquarters to request a

|definite ruling on debating. Last

year the UNB boys in the Dominion Finals found themselves up
against McGill who read _ their
speeches from a script. For this
they lost no marks. UNB had not
been informed of such a ruling.

All Maritime debates this year
will be on the topic to be used in
the Dominion Finals. By this, the
students will be better prepared
for the finals.

It was announced that Timothy
Eaton has donated a trophy to
be awarded to the winners of the
Maritime Intercollegiate Debating
| League.

Sodales were acting as hosts this

year and in that capacity held a
|dance at the Nova Scotian. The

visitors expressed gratitude for the

|' welcome shown them.

If the French aspirants think |
that they could learn a little more |
might
attend this meeting to take place
at the Engineers’ Building on
Tuesday, Nov, 1st at 8 p.m. The
program for the evening will con
lowed by a discussion concerning |
the activities of the society for the
coming year. Refreshments will |
be nerved and films will be shown.

 

| DENTS

D.V.A. Notice

Cheques for ARTS, SCIENCE,
COMMERCE, ENGINEERING,
PHARMACY, GRADUATE STUwill be available on Thursday, November 3rd, It is possible
that there will be a pay on Wednesday afternoon, if cheques are
received on time.

Murray Adaskin and frames James to Presestt Contiei
In Dal Gymnasium under Auspices of Students Council

Two of Canada’s most famous
concert artists will appear at Dalhousie on November 7th under the
auspices of the Students’ Council.
They“ are the husband and wife
team of Murray Adaskin and
Frances James both well known to
music lovers across the continent.

Miss James who is a Maritimer
is widely acclaimed in all quarters
as one of Canada’s foremost sopranoes, her rich voice and dramatic
expression bringing an expert understanding to her music. She is
further known as a fine interpreter
of French song. Miss James has

appeared in concerts across Canada and the United States and has
appeared with Toronto Mendelssohn Choir as well as. the C.B.C. as
soloist-on many oceasions. During
the visit of Their Majesties to
Canada she performed before them
at Banff where she also met Murray Adaskin, now her husband.

Mr. Adaskin who is a member of
one of Canada’s most musical families is widely distinguished as a
concert violinist but also possesses
great talent as a composer. His
Sonata for Violin and Piano has
attracted much attention both in
Canada and abroad. Last June his

.chestra

completed Suite for Orwas presented over the
C.B.C. network and received much
applause from the critics.

recently

This is the first concert that the
Council of Students has sponsored
in some time, and its new effort
along this line is well worthy of
support.

Student tiekets will be available
from O’Brien in the gym. On presentation of a Council card a
twenty-five cent ticket may be obtained. Prices for outsiders are
75¢ rush and $1.25 reserve. Tickets
will go on sale early this week.

a eee a

a.
met Ts

AMERI CA’S. OLDEST, COLLEGE PAPER
Member Canadian University Press
. Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of
ousie University. inions expressed are not

ssarily those of the Students’ Council. For subotions. write Business Manager, Dalhousie Gazette,

_ Editors-in-Chief
| BRUCE LOCKWOOD
C.U.P. Editor Office Managsy’
_ JIM MACDONALD MURRAY HARRIS
Page Editors

ae pd gay | News
3 : BLES MACINTOSH NEWBOMB BLOOMER

Sports
' BOB WOLMAN RALPH MEDJUCK
JACK SCHWARTZ
Features

MARJ COLBURGH
Photographers
ERIC RICHTER BOB WOLMAN
wy MITCH GLUBE
Reporters
PATSY AHERN JOHN ROBERTS

NNIS NEL GOODRIDGE BARBARA McGEOUGH
BETTY LIVINGSTONE
; SE ELIPHAL NICHOLS
- COLEEN MACDONALD BETTY LIVINGSTONE
Cartoonist
f BEATRICE MACDONALD
Office Manager Re-write
MURRAY HIGGINS ~ LUCY CAP
Proof Readers

GLORIA HORNE RONA YESS
No. 9

~ THE COMMUNIST MARTYRDOM

a In the past decade, the world has watched the national
attitude of the United States of America change from splen_ did isolationism to one begetting furious international activ
ee We can only thank the law of self-preservation that the
ar Bee has not swung back.

But even though Americans have realized they cannot

cr fs ~ live unto themselves alone, they have not yet learned to move

v - about the great wide world of conflicting ideas with an adult

oh _ attitude. This immatur ity is best illustrated by the great

_ waves of “Red scares” which constantly appear in the news.

_ The loyalty oath proposed by the Board of Regents at

ie University of California is perhaps the most flagrant loss

of perspective to date in the States, but reports of the antics

of the U. S. Immigration authorities are no less disturbing.

aia _nI September of this year, they detained Miss Ruth Comfort,

i. it a Canadian University student, on charges of delivering an

inflammatory speech while aboard ship from Europe. And

it 3 how, from Toronto comes word that two Canadian university

___ students, scheduled to support the Communist viewpoint in

a debate, will do so only under alaises, lest their past mis
deeds prohibit their entry into the States at some time in the
aa i future.

These unofficial reflections and opinions-of the Ameriean attitude are not without foundation from more weighty
sources. The decision of the United States Supreme Court

eh. ag imprison eleven Communist leaders could offer no firmer
Be foundation. And should anyone ask an employee of the
+ United States government—no matter how small a cog in the
ile ae _ wheel he may be—about the tests he must face, the inquirer
pe would be told of loyalty, and antecedents tests whose number
are and minuteness far exceed any attempts to determine ability.

gets) Such crusades against Communism and its evils are use
less. No amount of name calling, blacklisting, and punish
a ment will sway those who consider themselves martyrs...
ie or, if they do not consider themselves as such, are made martyrs anyway by childish forms of persecution. And even
should these forms of persecution eliminate the leaders at

any given time, new recruits for Communism will always be
available so long as an aura of martyrdom exists.

Remedies for the situation are not so easly come by as
are points which illustrate its inadequacy. But if congressional committees were to spend less time pursuing imagined
enemies, gaining publicity for the next election, and generally following their practice of swaying the public by emo
tional appeal, they might have time to reflect that a more

oS adult approach to this problem through education would be

7 6—CtC(‘<‘OE ‘fa greater consequence than all the present hair- raising
a _ tacties.

i Me

VETERANS EXCLUDED

‘i The decision of the Rhodes Scholarship Committee to
_make restrictions applicable to all students this year will uneee come as a surprise to some student veterans.
The fact that scholarships such as those sponsored by
_ the Beaver Club Trust are now available to veterans was pro_ bably partially responsible for the new ruling. The commita ~ tee has apparently decided to return to normality and to allow
Mes a the younger students to take over once more a field from
, Fe age A which they have been well-nigh excluded since the end of
~ the war.
sae ne unfortunate result may be the lowered quality of
applicants for the award. It is understandable that the
ae a younger students may have less of the leadership qualities
and experience demonstrated by many student veterans.
i “ ee | In any event, this change in regulations seems quite in
Bi keeping with the trend of the times. Many student veterans
; ar have complained of a gradual stiffening in the interpretation
Bei of regulations by the Department of Veterans Affairs. The
a - favored position which the veteran has in many instances
enjoyed since his discharge is gradually receding into the
ri middle distance with the memory of the war itself.
| ar" However, a few years of military service hardly merit a
; ifetine of special concessions. The Canadian veteran can
ci Bh ae few complaints to make concerning his post-discharge
et tr atment. The Canadian Government’s Veterans’ Rehabil itation Ac fn, been one of the best in the world.

ef + ys anes Steal Ber rhaian
: ne a :

fess

Sunday, October 30. (Lord’ s
Day)—To late church with my
wife, where I was gratified to see
many of the scholars from Studlee, contrary to my expectations. I
did think most of them to be out in
the country, but am much pleased
that they wished to attend church
instead,

Then to Studlee in a hansom
cab, where I did watch the passing
crowd for a time. But I did not
remain for very long a time, as the
roadway there is too bumpy, and I
was in fear lest the cab come down
around my head. Am resolved to
write another letter to The Spectator (early edition) hoping that
the Studlee Council will repair the
potholes.

Later home to my wife, to spend
the rest of the day with her, and
did listen to a lecture on my faithlessness.. Early to bed, hoping to
escape further words with her, but
I did not. ;

Monday, October 31.—Awakened
during the night by much shouting
and screams of female voices and
sounds as of breaking glass.

Up early, to inquire of my member of Parliament the source of the
noise during the night. But he
would not tell me, saying the whole
was very mysterious and secret,
and not even The Spectator would
be allowed to explain.

Not satisfied with this, to. the
college on the hill to speak with
the scholars, who seem to know
everything. There I did fall into
the company of Miss Cannhe See,
one of the inmates of Marmalade
Hovel, who did tell me everything.
It seems that during the night a
group of ruffians, who call themselves “Windowknockers”, did surround Marmalade Hovel and sing
songs to the beauty of the inmates,
being full of sack, (i.

She did tell me, too. that these
“Windowknockers” did throw a
bottle of sack through the window
into her room, frightening her
greatly. But not wanting a disorderly room, she did place the
bottle on her sill. There Miss
Cutit did see it, and did ask Miss
Cannhe See not to bring sack into
her room, and would not hear how
it got there. But I do believe Miss
See, because the bottle was half
full, and would not otherwise have
been.

Later to the great hall of the
scholars, to witness a joust, in
which one Coy McLord does excell.
But I will not attend again, without a cushion, as I am not comfortable on seats so hard as those.

Tuesday, November 1 — To the
playing field of the King, to witness a joust called the new game,
but all I did see was one Mess
Rounds, who did appear to have a
fit. And near him were players
of both the old game and the new
game, all with red faces, ashamed
that one of their number should
appear in such a state.

Disgusted, té6 the Lady Hamilton, where I[ did attempt to forget
what I had seen. I did forget Mess
Rounds,-but became even more disgusted on reading The Spectator
(early edition)* in which some
writer did call this city an idiot
offspring. The knave did it in such
a fashion that it seemed a mistake,
but it was not, I think.

Turning homeward, did fall into
the company of one Loose Blockhead, who did tell me of happenings at the college owned by Lord
Fevershook, and the one to which
the “Appleknockers” go. At both
institutions, they have done away

with mid-term tests for the scho
lars, and the scholars are not
pleased. But I did think that most
Strange, and did return home to
ponder on bringing the idea to
Dullhousie. I am_ resolved it
should be, and even more so. And
so to bed,

sat okt mises

, we mn td fe , si badd:
ee

_DALHOUS IE A

GAUVIN we.
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS
and
BLUE PRINTING

881, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
_Phone 3-6992

Two of Canada’s
Great Newspapers

The Halifax

Chronicle-Herald
| AND

av | Ny Mail-Star

»
CANADA’S FINEST

ALL THE NEWS

CIGARETTE ALL THE TIME

Circulation Over
100,000 Daily

Registered
Jeweller A. G.S.||| Dal Students-
A simple phrase but your A welcome awaits you at
protection when you need

a jeweller.

Every Registered Jeweller Phinneys Limited

is examined yearly to test

his knowledge and must j

be approved for ethical 456 Barrington St.
standards,

Henry Birk S & Where you Wi aa
ote complete Musie Service
Sons Limited

| and the finest
Registered Jeweller, A.G.S. Sports Equipment
Halifax, N. S. et

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”
5S. Cunard and Company, Limited
COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.
79 Upper Water St. :

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering
«

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
: Degrees of:
Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Commerce Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Education _ Master of Arts
Bachelor of Music Master of Science
Diplomas in:
Education Hospital Pharmacy
Engineering Mining Geology
Engineering Physics Music
Food Technology Pharmacy |

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry
The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

C.M,
THE- FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D. g

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Publi
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration oe

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 availab]
ee applying si ean from High Schools or tak.
olleges o e Maritime Provinces, and a

of educational attainments. wae et ee oe

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full information as to fees
courses, residence facilities, and dates of registration. ;

 
    

 ~6—Cm€/a ant —
Mm wit Ciik

he members of the Canadian ISS Seminar at Breda this ,
t illustrates some of the current difficulties in Germany
dent’s solutions for them. The solutions are not typical

ented at the seminar, and nowhere was the diversity
Germany’s future greater than among the German

 
 
 
  
 
 

:

; themselves,

 
 

  

only thing I perhaps may be
do is to show how I regard
present situation of Germany
how I would like to see things
p out of the present. |
decided upon leaving out all
ings and emotions, because I
ld not explain their motives in
2 minutes. I will restrict my
as much as possible to facts,

nf

from what I regard as the

  
 

resen

 
 

       
    

   

      
    
   
   
  
    
    
   
     
  

_ some idea of my feelings.

in The basic factor of our present

situation is that ten years ago,

rermany started a war, and lost
- How the war happened, what

> ae sponsible for it, all these questions

_ may be answered by historians.
‘The result of this terrible war all
ver Europe is better known to you
: oe than to me. If I now try to give
-__- you some idea of what the immediate results of this war have been

for Germany, I do not want to ask
_* for pity. I will simply show you
__ what are the most urgent problems
ah to be solved. /

Let us begin with the land. All
the territories east of the Oder_Neisse Line, about 25% of Germany, have been annexed by RusoF is sia and Poland. Those provinces

had been the food supply area of
pre-war Germany. But even with

», their help, Germany could not meet

more than 70% of her own food

A _ demands, :

Without these areas, less than

y 60% of the present demands can be

met, The rest has to be balanced
w by imports, which up to now, have
been paid to a considerable degree

by the English tax-payer.
The difficulties are aggravated
_ furthermore because the Russian
Zone, which is mostly agricultural,
| \ ig praetically cut off from the
| a Western Zones, which are highly
| industrialized. Every effort of
| _ Germany to secure a minimum of
_ existence for her own people by her
|
|

     

awn efforts is rendered a hopeless
ease by the iron curtain which cuts
Germany into two parts.
Tn the long run, this iron cur: tain will have the effect that the
| ‘two parts of Germany “will differ
more and more in their political
and economic structure and that a
tension will arise which may be; - come a threat to future security.
Up to now, this threat has been
- eounter-balanced by the occupation
— forees, but every German is afraid
that with the possible retreat of
the allies, Russian totalitarianism
will overrun Western Germany.
- Thus, the merger of all zones

    
   
  
 
 
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
 

ment and under the supervision of
a Unified Allied Occupation auit _ thority is one of the urgent neces” sities, The most immediate effect
‘gn the war on the country may be
seen in the degree of material deye struction, especially in the cities.
nh ‘Everyone who has seen Germany
* after the war, must admit that
, even the severest plans for pun‘ - ishment (Morganthau Plan) could
not surpass the results of bombing.
No German city has been spared,
and the greatest. ones, Berlin,
_ Hamburg, Cologne, have been de_, Stroyed 60% to 80%. The result is

that the remaining dwelling space

 
 

Wei
«..
;

   
     
     
   
  
   
 

     

  

. is hopelessly overcrowded. The
| average space for the German is
' from 5 to 7 yards. :

overcrowdedness has been
further aggravated by the
n million refugees who have
nm expelled from the annexed
as in the east, where no Gerliving any more. Those reform one of the most serioblems of present day GerMost of them live in the
overfilled British and U.S.
‘The auth

° Th
‘ fe

 

    
  

 

* wnder a real democratic govern
   
   
    
    
     

orities of the |

gaia

ee

‘speech made

by a German
Dear Ma, .

It has been quite some time since
I last wrote you, and much has
happened. When I was nicely set
hen I, as a German, have to state some of my ideas on|tieq in my room and registered at
ture of Germany, I have first to express my strong] Dalhousie I decided to look the
gs of utmost incompetence. A problem like this one;| campus over. To my dismay, how-.
D as been thought over and dealt with by some of the ever, I was snatched from a corriimportant people of our times, cannot be solved or|dor of the Arts Building and
ed out by me, as a student.

dragged bodily to the gymnasium
they are the séverest threat to the} where two yellow placards were.

development of democratic Ger- hung over my shoulders. They
many. Most of them have nothing | aijed me “Frosh!” and for the
to lose, and they will be easy prey | next week life was a holy terror,
to any radical propaganda, if their | aimaxed by a flour-and-oil beauty
conditions are not improved. I shampoo “For the hair you can’t
quote from SATURDAY NIGHT, get your hands out off”. I didn’t
Jan. 14, “He who succeeds in or- | j,ind getting a pie in the face,
ganizing this mass of refugees and) co TI hadn’t eaten for three
be the new master of Germany.” days. But slop water in the

If I said that a good part of the|schnozzle and catsup behind the
punishment for the German peo-]|ears was too much. It took me
ple already took place by the de-|fully two weeks to get the red
struction of the country, this holds] spots out of my eyes.
true as well for the losses of :
human lives. About four million] Ah well, all that is far in the
Germans were killed during the | Past and I am now an orientated
war. This number will increase| Student. Last week I diligently
considerably if numbers are avail-|@"d furtively set out in quest of
able for those German PW’s who|the Alcove bug, but all my efforts
died in Russian camps. About one|Wére in vain. No one seems too
million German PW’s are still in|a@mxious to talk about it. Last
Russian camps with no hope of|Night, however, I accidentally
return. Most of the dead and pri- solved the whole mystery, when I
soners of war were men between|escorted a young damsel from
20 and 40, That raiseswvery seri- Shirreff Hall to a movie with my
ous social and economic problems. |!ast 74c (Family Theatre). As we
The productive part of the popula- approached the shadows of that
tion has diminished as much as the | reat stone building, she sweetly
unproductive part has increased. | S2id, “Would you like to step into

Re Ah 2 otis: i aluave | A the alcove for a moment?” My
stabifizing: factor in society, have pulse quickened at the chance to
nearly vanished by material de- solve the mystery. “Will you show

; rhe AU is 2”? 1
struction, currency reform, de-|'™© ee ere bug oe
nazification ete. The proletariat asked. She smiled knowingly and
hak seerenced Utmenshasty. very said she would. So, Ma, I am now
much by former intellectualists,|°"Slaved by the Alcove bug, but I

who are now the most dangerous don’t seem to mind it at all, Now
part of it. when I look back I see how foolish

I was; F thought that she was the

shone vid aah Gree aerecus of sweet young thing that had never
the grim situation we are facing] | ;
ie even been kissed...
inside Germany as a result of the
war. All of us agree that such a Well, Pa, I must now approach
terrible thing as the. last war|the delicate subject of finances. As
should never happen again. The|I predicted before I left home, 50c
best comparison I could think of|a week is not enough spending
for the present situation of Ger-| money even though you are allowmany is that of an immense steam]ing me the generous sum of $2.45
boiler with an over pressure of | per week for food and laundry. Inabout 20 million people. flation has overtaken Dalhousie;

The big question is, shall we|even their dances cost money. That
think that these people have not| young thing from Shirreff Hall
been punished enough? If so, will | asked me to do her a favor which
we take the risk of increasing the} I just couldn’t refuse, so now I am
pressure inside the boiler until it| taking her to the Dent Ball and
explodes? In other words, until | the Law Ball, and as a result, I am
Germany turns Communistic? Or| overdrawn by $20 at the bank. The
will we build in some security|Mmanager gave me a dirty look
valves to let off some of the steam.| when I went by yesterday. You
I think the Allies decided upon the | see, Pa, by the time you buy a
second policy. There are several | ticket, get a corsage, pay for a
kinds of security valves. cab and some food and spend a

1. Military. Prolonged occupa- couple of bucks on... well, anytion, continued disarmament, elim-| W@Y, it runs into money. Please
ination of war potentials. send me the rest of my summer

2. Political. The Allies should eg, an Atethcin She: sugar
allow and help Germany to estab- F
lish a sound democracy. Germany| Regarding my studies, I have
should be admitted to a federation | heen working very industriously
of European states whose members since my first day at college.
will oe - ape of their sover-| Pjends have remarked that I have
eignty in favor of a common authority. .

3. Economical. The German
people should be allowed to secure
for itself a minimum for existence
which is the basis for any kind of
democracy.’

Perhaps some kind of combination of these proposals with the
integration of Germany into a
union of Western Europe would
offer the best assurance for future
security. Then we may hope that
the times when people fought terrible wars against each other have
passed forever,

(This is the first in a series of’
three articles to appear on one of
the vital issues of the Seminar.)

“DANCING
SATURDAY
NIGHT”

ween o

Come on Students
Ride In The Best

3-S TAXI SERVICE
oe oe
LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

, 24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
oe ee

€ a
aie ~~,
{

‘St.

 
  
   
 
      
     

 

Compliments of

JOE and TOM

Diana Sweets
Tea Room

   
   

i

  
   
  

Ay?
ae %

7 ) f i + 553;
OY, P: Nice
Dis

 

_ sd IT The students recreation centre

Dial 3-8539 ||} a ae

die ee, Tee ee eee
Ve t ahi “ye

    
   

  
 
  

    
   
 
 
  
  
    
 

          

The |

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

  
 

  

What a week end! Anyone who hasn’t had the privilege of visiting
certain forbidden institutions around the campus isn’t a truly educated
man. For the proper course of study the Roundup recommends in this
order, Phi Delt; then Phi Rho; nexsht Phi Chi; oh, brother, take tacshi
to Phi Norman’s; thui x$&0” Phi Atomic.

7 * BS * *

The Canadian Football Tigers are really on the spot in their
next two games, Savants of the Halifax Canadian Football League
give Dal a strictly underdog status in the drive for the play-off and
a crack at the Purdy Trophy.

However, the Tigers have had a three week lay-off and are in the
best possibel shape for the contests against Navy and Wanderers. The
boys took the Tars into camp in their first meeting up at Truro and
are picked by this corner to repeat.

A Sao eae

Coach Vitalone says that the team’s morale is at the highest
possible peak. The Tigers are individually determined to make the
playoffs and deserve the most vociferous support we side-line
quarterbacks can muster—come well stocked with Zubes.

ok eo * *

John Funston and Jack Lynch are doing a fine job on the football
broadeasts which are arousing a great deal of interest around the province. Nova Scotians are not newcomers to football broadcasts as they
have been listening to finest announcers on the continent broadcast the
American games. It is hard for these listeners to get themselves orientated to the Canadian rules but Jack Lynch is doing an admirable
Job explaining. The games are sponsored by Northern Electric, with
Mr. M. A. Wilson (Bob: Wilson’s Pater) being instrumental for the
support.

* * * *

The football league has been blessed with fine weather this ‘year but we are still keeping our fingers crossed. There are no
sport fans with the indomitable spirit of football fans. They will
brave any kind of weather to see a game—it borders on fanaticism,
Last year over a thousand spectators turned out in an all-day rain
to see McGill and Dalhousie clash. However we hope that their
mettle will not have to be tested again this season.

* * * *

It looks as though a series for the MeTier cup is better than a
strong possibility. Although our sympathies are completely with
Canadian football and we think that each succeeding year will see the
game spread wider in the Maritimes, we wish the Rugger enthusiasts
luck in the forthcoming series. Rugger play, here ,in three years has
not been good and wide-spread competition should raise the quality. It
it a matter of fact that in Toronto and Montreal the grande olde game
does not draw very strong support which is immaterial if the authori
ties could straighten their rules and raise the standard of play.

 

 

 

very large rings under my eyes for; so, my days of higher education go
so early in the term, so I must be! by, and I learn by experience,
making progress. My only tough _ Again, please send the money
subject is Bridge 34. In Chemistry, | immediately, or my next letter will
I finally found out what a Bunsen’ be marked Halifax County Jail
Burner is. I always thought it was | :

3 Financially yours,
rival of the Stanley Steamer. And |

SYLVESTER

een:

Corsages |OXFORD

Now Playing
£

J. ARTHUR RANK’S
| “PORTRAIT FROM
426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax

99
A “Colonial” Corsage de- | LIFE
signed by ROSEDALE e

speaks eloquent volumes i
of tenderness and love. eeu

 

 

  

NURSERIES: Limited...

 

 

“The Students’ Drug |
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and

THE

GREEN LANTERN
“The sign of a good

Sundries, and for wunexcelled ‘i
Snack Bar and Soda Fountain meal
Service. :
Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd. a

29 Coburg Road 407-409 Barrington St.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

|
|
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

 

Meet Your Friends at
THE ~

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

CASINO

Starting Wed.
Abbott and Costello
All Dalhousians Can

Eat Cheaply “AFRICA SCREAMS”
Evangeline © s

Restaurant 4

280 Quinpool Rd.

Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m, - 12 Midnight

Last Day Today For

“GONE WITH THE
WIND”

ha ee eg” AS

SNe

 

  
  
   
  
  
  
     
    
    
     
     
       

beso

SS

2

oe nee

 

_

2 eaptie ine
——— Se
   
  
  

i

Dear friends and gentle hearts, this is the year during which Dalhousie will put the hex on “X”. That is the biased opinion of this
writer after seeing Gabriel Vitalone’s “silken smooth” intermediate
cum varsity basketball squad in action against the Dalhousie Grads last
Thursday night. Further, it is not only my opinion but as well that of

the boys themselves,

Dressing room talk after that game was all about bouncing the
blue boys from little Scotland. Even the usually stoic Butsy O’Brien
came out of his shell far enough to optimistically promise the entire
basketball team a steak dinner the night they trimmed “X”.

To get closer to the matter there would be no point in hypothesizing about such feats as derring-do if there were not a solid foundation
for them. The fact is that this years’ varsity and intermediate hoop
squads are the slickest basketball creations that Halifax has seen since
the steamroller HMCS Stadacona squad of 1946-47 which ran into the
Montreal YMHA to end a glorious season.

From manager “Bazook” Palmeter, through the players to coach
Vitalone there is a solid mass of enthusiasm, youth and a mighty desire to get out and work like hell. Call this ingredient A, add a generous slab of experience gained in the last two years, a brainy coach
who has the boys behind him 100%, mince up a turnout of 45 to get
some great depth in lineups, and bake in the crust of an early start—
result—a possible championship team.

Tactically the new Tigers are strong. On the offense, smoothies
like Seott Morrison and Chuck Connelly, Jimmy Mahon and Gordie
McCoy pack a scoring punch that we hope won’t be equalled by any
maritime university or intermediate team this year.

Mahon it will be remembered averaged 16 points per game last
year. “Moose” Ludka, brother of the House of David Star, in his stay
with Saint John last season was the Dominion’s leading scorer. He
averaged 17. McCoy was the leading scorer for Mount Allison’s power
packed aggregation in ’48 as well. Charley Connolly is generally regarded as smoothie, first class, on the attack and Scott Morrison as an
accurate shot and aggressive team player is unexcelled.

Defensively the ace guard combination of Andy McKay and Scott
Henderson with another year’s experience under their belts is working
like a charm. Mason McDonald, a boy who really plays with everything he’s got and Buck Tanner add depth to the lineup.

There might be just a leetle weakness in the center slot but bear in |
mind that this is a young season, the youngest in basketball history in |
Halifax in fact. By the time the varsity gets into intercollegiate action |
after Christmas the necessary experience in a tough league will have |
been gained. In his first year out of Junior competition, Long Island’s |
contribution to Dal, Red Findlay, has shown that he has the stuff. A|
little more experience and he’ll be set for a great season, Lanky Bob |
Black, another Mount A. lad (you know Mt. A., the Canadian football
squad’s farm team) is in the same category with Red. By intercollegi- |
ate time they’ll make a sweet pair of centers. So heres’ looking for a_|
great year for what we’re sure is going to be a great team. |

After a three week lay-off the varsity players of the “Colonial |
Game” swing into action Saturday at Redman’s park against Stada-'
cona. The first time these squads met the Tigers scored an electrifying |
20-6 win. Let’s hope the batteries are once again fully charged. Going |
into this crucial game the Tigers will be without Paul Lee, Pete Me- |
Donald and possibly Chick Fancy. At this rate Gabriel Vitalone might |
have to don the pads himself,

Every game from here in could mean a playoff slot for the
Tigers, and the boys realize it too. The Cats go into this game with |
their backs to the wall. Navy will be hard to beat .A bad case of |
overconfidence cut the props out from°under the Tars the first time.
out. Now with the convenient re-drafting of Fd McSweeney to Halifax, |
plus a spirit of revenge, Stad will be hard to handle. But the Tigers
are the team that can do it.

 

Arts and Science
Down Commerce

A powerful and spirited Arts
and Science team proved that experience and conditioning is the
determining factor in winning a
game in the Inter-Faculty Rugger
League, when they downed a hapless Commerce aggregation 9-0.
The game was played on the
King’s College Grounds Oct. 20

| with a.large group of students in
attendance.

The A. & Se. team threatened |
time and again, but failed to score |
until late in the first half when|
Argo Hergesheimer hit pay-dirt
after a long run through Com- |
merce territory. The second A. &|
Se. try came early in the second |
half when Hergesheimer again |
scored after a long romp. Don|
“Dee” Shaw played well for Com- |
merce team in this half, making |
Several impressive runs. |

 

The A. & Se. scrum was very |
strong and were successful in getting the ball out to Pick Norm
Beckett consistently. Hugo Home

FORSYTH’S
MEN’S SHOP showed much aggressiveness in the
closing minutes of the game and

* after a long run made a lovely pass
to Heresheimer who scored again
to make it 9-0 for the Arts and
Science.

 

Headquarters
for

Fine Clothing - Sweaters
and Furnishings

Ferguson displayed much determination and ability in helping to
lead his team to victory, being
Stark and Ralph Shaw, a former
Varsity Basketball player, starred
for Commerce. The Arts and
Science team was coached by
Mike Delorie, while Fred Laphen
; managed the Commercemen.

Discount
Extended to all DAL Students

262 Gottingen St. 4-1172

 

 

Meet the
Hoop Squad

   

MORRISON
this

Scotty is not. new to the

Meet SCOTT = 5

member of year’s varsity
squad.
hoop game having participated in
ball the
years. In his earlier years Scotty
played Public School basketball for

LeMarchant Street School, moving

organized for past six

up in better ranks he starred for

LMCA Juveniles in 1945,

The following season he played
junior for the same club along with
interscholastic basketball for QEH.

Seott came to Dal in 1946 and
made varsity in his first year. In
‘47 he also held down a varsity for
ward spot, not to mention playing

junior ball for the Dal Tigers who

that year took the Maritime Junior |

championship. This was the team
that was defeated by Canadian
Converters in Montreal.

In the 48-49 season he played fo
Dal Grads. Scotty is now
with the varsity and shows still
greater improvement over his last
years play. At 21 he has not yet

hit his peak and is looking forward |

to his best season yet.

rao
Pr)
~~
~
4
ao
Yan
awe
a
ns
ong
os
oy
4
es
“~
es
*
a
%
oa
ro
oe
es
oe

Gently, gentlemen, please!

are

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

 
 

TH END TONIGHT

Hoop Squad Seeks Second
Win at Shearwater Gym

DGAC ACTIVITIES

WELL UNDERWAY

Archery is coming to the fore |

among the girls’ sports this term.
Although comparatively new at
Dal, it has roused a great deal of
enthusiasm.

The love for the bow and arrow
and the bullseye seems to be as

strong as for the basketball. About |

twenty-four girls come to archery

class and this compares favorably |
with the numbers turning up for |

basketball.
Speaking of basketball there are

 

back

 

Monday at 1:30, so anyone aspiring to
become a cage star should be sure
to come,

The Intramural League is
under way, two more games will be
played on Tuesday night with the
Swishes meting the Schmoos at
7:00 p.m. and at 8:00 the Atomettes will,clash with the Skunk
Hollowites.

classes for beginners every

well

This is a friendly league with
lots of enthusiasm and spirit, but
how about a few spectators? A bit
of cheering does a lot for the
morale of any team.

iheld Wednesday and Friday at
1:30. Remember co-eds, there have
to be two complete Varsity teams,
a Senior and Intermediate
These teams will be chosen from

those who appear at practise regu- |

larly. Strong, well-balanced teams
that wil lhold up the honour of the
Gold and Black, cannot be manufactured in one or two last minute
| practises. .If you want our Varsity teams to have a victorious sea'son come to practises now!

 

 

ryy . }
The League gets underway after

| Christmas.

| Turnout at the Stad pool to date
‘is not bad, but there is still room
for more. Instruction is available
| fer beginners, so don’t be shy. The
| time is 4:30 every Monday:

Mason MacDonald goes way up to rack up

two points for the Intermediate Hoopsters, as the Tigers trounce the

Grads 49-31,
ningham} while the pugilistically

Leading the Grad defence Bruce Bauld and Alfie Cun
inclined gentleman on the right is

Eric Demont. Also to be seen in the picture is Chuck Connelly, and the
well known knee-guards of Ralph Cooley are visible in the background,

 

—}

team. |

The hottest basket quintet this
old town has seen for many moons
returns to the wars tonight as the
| Dal Tigers tackle the rdugh, tough
Southend hoopsters in an _ Intermediate league fixture to be played
at the Shearwater Gymnasium,

Fhe contest is scheduled to start
at 7 p.m., and the harbortown hosts
will provide ecrash-boat transportation for both teams and possibly
a few spectators.

The Cats have their eyes on an
'undefeated season and their decisive defeat of the Dal Grads proved
‘that the boys really have the goods.

There is no doubt that the Tigers
have a big year ahead. They
proved in the last game that a
zone defence is no stumbling block
to a slick, fast moving team. ‘Tonight however, they face a group
of veteran hoopsters who revel in
a tough brand of ball. Led by
Zatsman and Stone, the Southend
'squad are an quintet
| who force opponents to play their
| style of game,

Vitalone has- stressed
| snappy ball-handling and whiz| bang passing, and is confident that
ithe Bengals will win by a com| fortable margin, and shoot into the

‘loop lead. The crackerjack mentor

 

 

aggressive

Coach

'has a wealth of material and can

|substitute without appreciably
od ! A
Varsity basketball practises are |

weakening the team.

The line-up will.be unchanged
and the coach reports that all players will see action. Bob Black, the
lanky center from Mount A, will
share that spot with Don Tanner.

The forward flanks will be filled
by Chuck Connely, Seott Morrison,
Mason MacDonald, “Red” Findlay,
Jimmy Mahon, and Earl Smith. On
the rear-guard such stalwarts as
Gordy MacCoy, Scott Henderson,
Andy MacKay, and “Arpy” Robertson will round out the squad.

 

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price
oung Men

 

 

 

 

my |
f ll

A \
\\ \ \ :
: ‘\ \\\ ,
boy
AR\\\ \\\ }
AY \\ \ Fi

A
\\

\\ \ \

WAN

 

\
\e \
\\\
HA A
mae ? \"
