  

STUDENTS AND ALUMNI UNITE IN

 
  

* *

DENTS ENACT GAY NINETIES SCENE ON GRAND PARADE
> Club to

* * * *

*

| *
Present First Show of Season Saturday

 

~

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

DON’T MISS
THE BIG 3
DANCE

FOOTBALL
GLEE CLUB
SHOW

 

 

Vol. LXXXII

papers

~

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1949

 

No. 12

 

FIRST HOMECOMING CELEBRATION

 

Students Show Cop Rights Under Old Charter

A number of Halifax citizens
were rather amazed when a horse
and buggy driven by two Dalhousie
students dressed in the costume of
the past appeared on the Grand
Parade in front of the Halifax
City Hall yesterday morning.

Joan McCurdy, one of the riders
was dressed in a large widebrimmed hat and other clothing in
vogue in the early days of this
century. Her companion, Eric
Richter, was dressed in a bowler
hat, coon-skin coat and carried a
cane, while smoking a large black
cigar.

These anachronisms rode in a

one horse-power rig which was in{

style thirty or forty years ago.
They were stopped by a policeman on a modern motorcycle who
inquired politely as to their business. They explained to him that
they were merely exercising their
ancient and inviolate rights as
Dalhousie students to “go, return,
pass and repass, either with or
without horses, cattle, carts, waggons or other carriages” over the
Grand Parade. This right was
given to Dalhousie students when

—- —

  

Morning—
9-12 a.m.

Afternoon—
2.00 p.m. .

Evening—
9-1 p.m.

Morning—
9-12 a.m.
Afternoon—

2.30 p.m.
3.00 p.m. Special Event.
Evening—
8.00 p.m.
Play.
8.00 p.m.
4.00 p.m. Reception at

Students are invited

all functions).

Program for Homecoming Weekend

Registration and payment of $2.00 fee
Football—Dal vs. Wanderers

Dance in Gym. (Students—$1.00 couple)
SATURDAY

Meeting of Professors and Alumni

Ground Hockey—Dal vs. Edgehill

Glee Club Show, Musical Sketch, Two-Act

SUNDAY
Chapel Service in Gymnasium

Faculty and Students.
(Any changes will be announced)

(Students must carry Council Cards for admittance to

 

Mayor Kinley Receives Invitation to Homecoming

the University sold the plot of
land now the Grand Parade to the
Government, and is to be found in
the Statutes of Nova Scotia, 1883.

They then drove up to the steps
of the City Hall and presented His
Worship the Mayor, Gordon S.
Kinley, with an invitation to
Homecoming Week.

       
 

 
   
         
        
      
 

(To be announced)

        
     
   
     
 

Shirreff Hall for Alumni,

      
   
 

to attend all functions.

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

» Dance, Football Game, Chapel Service and

Glee Club Show to Be Main Attractions

Glee Club Notice |

~~ e

Orchestra practice in the future College Spirit.
will be held on Wednesday nights
at 7.30 on stage.

|

John Pauley, Pres.,| 
Students of Graduate
‘Studies, Faculty Meet

On Monday night students of the
new faculty of Graduate Studies
met members of the University
faculty at an informal gathering.
The meeting opened with a welcoming address by Dr. Kerr, and
| Doctor Johnstone then spoke to the
students, recommending the formation of a new student society
|} embodying members of this faculty.

 

D.G.D.S.

 

The recommendation was favour|ably received by the students in
| attendance, and an ad hoc commit| tee was elected to draw up a con| stitution for the new group. Méembers of the Committee are: Alton
: : |Lomas, Chairman; Keith Hoyt,
: | Noel Hamilton, Ian Henderson, and
|Ernie Hayden.

 

 

i

Plaque to War Dead Unveiled in Medical School

A bronze plaque,» memorial to

those who served and those who
fell in the recent war, was unveiled in the main hallway of the

Forrest Building Thursday, November 10, by Major General R. J.
Lutton in a ceremony of dedication which was opened by Dr. Kerr.

Dr. J, V. Graham, chairman of

 

the committee which collected
funds for the memorial, presented
the plaque to Colonel K. C.

Laurie, chairman,\of the Board of
Governors. Colonel Laurie accepted it on behalf of the University, Dr. H. G. Grant, Dean of :
the Medical Faculty, then gave a ?
brief history of the plaque.

As Former Dalhousians Return to Campus

by NOEL GOODRIDGE

Staff Writer, Dalhousie G

Today Dalhousie Graduates from all parts of Eastern

| Canada are gathering at their Alma Mater to reunite in true

For the first time in the history of the

University an Alumni Homecoming is being held. It is

| touching to realize how many old friendships will be renewed
‘and how many new ones will be made.

weette

The idea originated in the mind
of Mr. Arthur Moriera, President
of our Students’ Council. He felt
that the Alumni had been insufficiently thanked for the interest
they have shown and are showing
in' Dalhousie. As a result the
Council are sponsoring the first
Homecoming, as an expression of
gratitude.

After the registration the
turning grads will have the opportunity to view a sport that is
relatively new to the University.
They will watch the Canadian
Football Tigers go into action
Wanderers Amateur Athletic Club.
against their ancient rivals the

re
Tomorrow the Glee Club long
known for its continued suceess in
the field of Dramatics will present
A. A. Milnes Wurzel Flummery.
And while the Grads are assembled
in the Gymnasium for this three
presidents will speak. They are:
Dr. Kerr, President of the University; Arthur Moriera, President
of the Student Council; and Mr.
Raymond Smith, President of the
Alumni Body.

On Sunday ah impressive cere
mony, conducted by Mr. Bernal
Sawyer, Chairman of the Homecoming Committee will take place
in the Gym. It is a Chapel Service
in Academic Procession. Dr. G. E.
Wilson, Dean of Arts and Science,
will read the Prayers. Dr. Kerr
will be the speaker. The Dalhousie
Glee Club will perform the singing.

All

students are welcomed to
these activities. Council Cards will
be raiewaeworun times.

 

Homecoming Events Planned by Council Committee

 
 
  
  

=

SE

\

\

‘

4

e

a

i

b

ea *

 

 

Vol. LXXXII

ee Sy eee

 

 

PHE

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

AMERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER

Member Canadian University Press

Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
University. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
Students’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,

Dalhousie Gazette, Halifax, N. S.
Editorial Office: ...... Paice sie he dns wineie lwalbic ks es os OAs so.0n0e 3-7098
Red ae rt Editors-in-Chief
B ear eB @ tf) eo Ce Ram 8 2 © 8.6 6 Bb. @
IE MUMRNEMLL SS Sea's i Pele binb ow iab here b o-6 eewltee eons Advertising Manager
SNE 2 a AS an Office Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF

“*#eeweepeneeununne

Charles MacIntosh }
Newcomb Bloomer

Valerie aCto }
Marg Goldburgh

S16) 2 618 6.0 C4 86 .@ ¢'6 ©

YER Oe Ae ae ee News Editors
yg ee eee Features Editors

Bob Wolman :

Thon Kerr i ARE, OS ac S a. 5 TA 0ES REE a A Sports no
Sports Reporters......... Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
Feature Writers...... Dagan he bias Barbara McGeough, Eliphal Nichols

Reporters—Bruce Irwin, Patsy Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

Cartoonist
NE tN es aes
Proof Readers

oa 6 6/8 0 ©) 0a 0 8 6/2 ©. 0 9 @

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1949

Beatrice MacDonald

Dr a ial alte-e ae bine: Lucy Calp

Gloria Horne, Rona Yess

No. 12

 

WELCOME ALUMNI

On behalf of the student body we extend to you, the
Alumni, a sincere welcome to your Alma Mater. Today, for
the first time in the long history of Dalhousie University,

the Past is united with the

Present through the willing

efforts of this generation of students. _ ’

To to-day’s undergraduate and graduate classes it seems,
as it probably seemed in your college days, that the interest
of old students in Dalhousie waned as soon as they received
their degrees. Many of the alumni feel that their college
days are over, and have isolated themselves, in interest and

spirit, from their Alma Mater.

Therein lies the basis for this Homecoming. We want
you to believe, along with present-day students, that graduation only marks the maturing of affiliation with the university, not cessation of relationship. And mature interests

are deathless.

During your three day sojourn at Dalhousie you will

have the opportunity ... and
most pleasant undertaking .

we hope it will prove to be a
. . to renew friendships of

bygone days. We hope that many of the pleasant memories
of an earlier life will be reawakened as you walk through the
classrooms, the corridors and the campus. . Through these
media and others a spark of college spirit and pride in your

University should be kindled,

with its warmth and comfort.

to enflame and suffuse you

Things will have changed considerably for some of you.
Perhaps you attended Dalhousie before the old gymnasium
burned, or before the men’s residence was built, or before the
university was divided into Forrest and Studley campi. More
recently the Murray Homestead was torn down, to be replaced by the first traces of a new Arts building.

These then are the purposes of the Homecoming — to
renew your interest, to renew your college spirit, and to
show you the changes and progress made by YOUR university. The Homecoming Committee has worked long and hard
to make this a pleasant three days for you, and to accomplish
their three-fold purpose. This is your week-end. Enjoy it
to the utmost. Let it bring back fond memories of college
days and of Dalhousie. And then, perhaps, the memory of
Dalhousie will be raised to its proper level in your minds,
and the spirt of the University perpetuated forever more.

 

PAST and PRESENT [__]

April 15, 1918 —_Miss Lillian
Fish was the first woman to receive an LLB from Dalhousie.

* * *

February, 1922 — Mock Parliament included many names which
are well known today: L. D. Currie,
W. C. Dunlop, Russell McInnes,
G. C. Nowlan, R. M. Fielding.

* * *

October, 1915—Arts and Science
faculty moved to the Studley campus from Forrest.

* * if

April, 1919—Vineent MacDonald
graduated, and it was said that:
“Although college girls were never
rushed to death by him, it was
rumored that he was never shy.”

x * *

March, 1922—A trio of buildings
now stand on Studley, consisting of
the Arts Building, Science Building and the MacDonald Library.

* * *

October, 1980 — A daring step
was taken by the Student Council
in raising the Council fees from
seven to ten dollars.

* * *

December, 19830—The University
store was started, under the management of Roy Atwood. The purpose was to enable students to
obtain books on the Campus.

i : »
: oe rea! 1 seal ale? eel 4 ] ;
a ed Ot hd ss See ~

 

October 4, 1949—Dalhousie University has opened for the first
time a school of graduate studies
leading to a degree of Master of
Arts and Master of Science.

* * *

October 7, 1949—Cafeteria opened in Men’s Residence, Roy’s to sell
books and soft drinks only.

* * *

October 12, 1949—Tigers regain
stride; defeat Stadacona by a
score of 20 to 6 as Dal football
team defeats last year’s Champions.

cs * *%

October 14, 1949—Year’s First
moot Court Trial; Reardon, Feener
and Baccardax on the bench, barristers Pye and Downie,

* * *

October 18, 1949—Glee Club
plans for year released; “Othello”,
“Pirates of ‘Penzance’, Modern
Play, Musical evening.

* * *

October 21, 1949—Publie Relations Board Plans approved by
Students Council; to be responsible
for all student public relation work
on and off the Campus.

* * 2K

October 25, 1949 — Justice John
E. Read of the International Court
of Justice delivers first of five

lectures on International Law.

See pe ens? Pe eh 7 "
> as pinot & tees >

I , ie *

 

Tuesday, Noy. 8—Much ado this
day about a great affair to be held
at Dullhousie, the College-on-theHill, this approaching week-end. A
scholar, one Simmer Woodman, being instrumental in the arrangement of festivities. Rumour hath it
that the scholars will entertain a
group of ancients who are expected
to return to Studlee for a period of
three days. Methinks it is merely
an excuse of the students to obtain

an extended holiday.
Home early, my head in a whirl
from listening to reasons why

some cowboys did not win at a
game this week-end, played against
the Royal Navy. A foolish game, it
seemed to be, wherein an inflated
sow’s bladder was thrown and
kicked back and forth on a grassy
field, the purpose being, I gathered, to place it between two upright
posts at either end of the field. I
could well conceive a greater use
for a sow’s bladder.

   

When you’ve picked
your pipe right—pick your
tobacco right. Pick Picobac

  
  

the pick of pipe tobaccos.,

icobac

Tobacco—the coolest, mildest tobacco ever grown

Wednesday, Noy. 9—To the Gym
Inn wherein I saw a man from the
far west, of remarkable resemblance to a gopher, who is Peter’s
son. He did chortle and express
much glee over the destruction he
wrought last week among the royal} ——
fleet. It is said that he did grab
the ankle of one who was deformed, it seems, since he is commonly
referred to as Quarterback, and
bending it to and fro, did snap it
like it was a chicken bone.

 

Picobac is B

 

Another meeting of the students
today, but again I did not go, it
not being the fashion these days.

Did attend a great dancing party
to-night at Marmalade Hovel.
Thank God it was a masquerade
else I could not have attended, not
being in the good graces of one,
Miss Cutit, warden of the Hovel.
Verily I could not recognize many

residents of the Hovel as they
were coated with a paint called
rouge, derived from the | French

word which means red. But among
them were some who were pastyfaced. These I avoided in the
quadrille. Did meet one lass of
high spirit, one Miss Loose Scalp,
who did remind me of Kitty, an attractive wench I knew in the past.
She did cut a pretty figure on the

 

*‘Sockem Stiff wins by a knock-out! How about
a word to the folks, Sockem? Were you ever
in trouble ?”’

floor, and curtsied most grace- ates ., ; f
fully. It is rumoured that young Yes, I had lots of trouble with Dry Scalp
eatin $s “atktnated with this and unruly hair. But I kayoed both with

‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic.”

ne HAIR TONIC

damsel’s beauty. In that I cannot
blame him.

Home to bed in the early hours
of the morning, having imbibed too

Vaseli

  

freely of a punch concocted by | at Tere
Reddy Cryan, an athlete of some

nN ‘2 ‘VASELINE’ iS THE REGISTE : ’
renown. To bed alone, my wife EGI EREO TRADE MARK OF THE CHESEBROUGH MFG. CO. CONS'D,
being out still with the dancing | — hn ate ee eae hy Cs

master, methinks, who will shortly
receive from me a most grievous
buffering, and my wife too, for
they are not to be suffered in their
insolence.

To-morrow, if God spares me,
and [ doubt it, I will betake myself
to Studlee to observe the festivities.

Cornerstone to Be
Laid Tuesday Noon

At twelve o’clock, Tuesday, November 15, the laying of the cornerstone for the new Arts building will take place. Several articles of interest ,including a copy
of the Dalhouste Gazette, will be
inserted under the stone. All students are cordially invited to attend these ceremonies and it is expected that classes will be dis-| JOHN A, HOBSON, Mer.
missed a few minutes early to en-| JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mgr.
able those interested to be at the} CHARLES SMITH, Mer.
event, JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mer.

CANADA’S
FIRST BANK

 

Halifax Branch: .

North End Branch:
Quinpool Road and Kline St:

 

 

 

 

 
   

ye

e

et

#

 

| “ay i “glory”.

 

Fi

aga rn

ee

So oT Ye

65 Pras ON
Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

z on the scholastic horizon, a writer (if you will call us that)

it very difficult to prepare a column,

a are, we hope it will be all right to go back over last year’s

1 1s and reprint the things that are pertinent or that we might
» liked. So this corner submits for your approval:

THE TRAM DRIVER’S SOLILOQUY

Is this a passenger I see before me,
_ Running for the stop? Come let me beat thee:—
Ha! You have me not and yet I see thee still,
And drops of rain upon thy cap and cloak,
Which was not so before. Now a stealthy pace,
To sneak me by that crowded stop near Sweet’s,
These very stones and rails prate of my coming,
But, zounds—a vehicle does cross my path,
Fool! And now I must sound the alarm,
Hear it not, people, but it’s a knell,
Echoing surely to the depths of hell,
(ll pass them anyway. What confronts me?
So, a poor pedestrian unwary,
I shall strike thee mighty, and it is done—
He rolls like some round object found on streets.
It is this bloody work which brings the red
Thus to mine eyes—Now o’er the one-half world
Nature seems dead—some men with wives do sleep,
A lovely sleep. And now to sheds with haste,
Then, my nightly bout with grog—no time to waste!

~ And about the snowblower controversy which has long since melted
away:

Quite a furore was caused amongst the good citizens of Halifax
when one city council member accused, another of “wanting all the
gravy”. This particular member later explained that “oravy” meant
In the light of last week’s snowblowing we can’t resist commenting—“Paths of glory lead but to the gravy”.

And, also, about the opening of all the seamen’s diners:

HALIFAXIA LIBERATA

_ The boy stood on the frothy floor, and raised his head and shouted

“More!”

‘The waiter no regard did show but turned and softly answered “No”.

The boy became a little sore, “But, sir, ’ve quaffed a measly four,”
The waiter turned with great disdain, and loftily said “No” again.

The boy became indignant now, and stirred up quite a healthy row,
The waiter said “My boy please go,” to accentuate another “No”

“But please, sir, on the plebiscites, I marked a ‘yes’ with all my might.”
_ The waiter turned, about to go, “But, I, my son, put down a “No”,

The owner through the door did thud, said, “Who defames Ye Olde

Sea-Stud?” :

He chased the waiter through the door and quickly brought the boy
some more.

The manager with tears in eyes said, “This damn place is full of dries:

—<$—$_$_—_

Me
é

¥

i

=

&

:

 

You get both when you buy Arrow Pajamas!
Handsome fit and sleepful comfort from the
day you buy ’em, until you stop wearing ’em!

Seamless cerftre seam in the trousers! Plenty
of room everywhere! SANFORIZED trade
-marked—guaranteed never to shrink out of fit.
See your Arrow dealer! Cluett, Peabody &
Company of Canada Limited.

Look for the Registered Trade Mark ARROW

ROW PAJAMAS

 

i “yee a it ee Py eee Pe pe ae Ae ew

Every onte in a while, especially when the exams and essays are

This week, as tongue-tied

 

Pe eae

ae —~<,
eas _ ae
rao , Sena eee ar P34

      

C ac" . a 4 Mla ;* i 7
ry bow 5 a4 -'$ a s 5 a a

   
 
  
   
  
 

  
 
 

 
     
 
     
 
 
       
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 

  

   
 
 

 
  

 

RLdeCHSaunders.i949.

 

The Gazette wishes to
acknowledge its indebtedness
to Dr. Saunders, the Director of the Medical Museum,
for his article on the her
aldic features of the new
University mace. The Gazette
is especially glad to have
this article for the Home
comin g issue.

 

   

PLANS DRAWN FOR

 

R. L. deC. H. Saunders

DALHOUSIE MACE

by Dr.

Director of the M vised Museum and Professor of Pathological Anatomy

The Dalhousie University mace has been designed to relate symbolically as the eye
ascends its length the proud maritime tradition of the seagirt provinces and the historical
heritage of the university which serves them. It is being carved in oak and enriched with

silver and enamel.

The lower end, or what is technically known as the button, is adorned with silver
fish in recognition of the source of our economy. It may be noted that the fish is also an
early symbol of Christianity. Above this is a carved scene depicting a sea nymph calling
across the waves toward the setting sun in representation of the urge which led navigators to sail westward to our shores.

The roots put down by the early settlers, and the tall trees which first met their
gaze are formally suggested by a simple grooved pattern extending the entire length of

the shaft.

The head of the mace first bears|0f the mace will incorporate some

the distinctive leaf of the national

oak presented by and felled on the

emblem, the maple. Set above this| estate of the present Earl.

is a carved circlet of mayflowers
simultaneously symbolizing the
province and the flowering of the
new civilization therein which led
to the establishment of the university.

Four robed medieval scholars
facing the main compass points,
represent the university faculties
and their old world heritage. Each
figure bears a silver enamelled
shield emblazoned with either the
arms of the University or the
province of Nova Scotia. Alternating with these figures are the
rose, thistle, fleur-de-lys, and
shamrock depicting the major racial groups of our country.

The uppermost part of the mace
head is surmounted by a five rayed
Scottish earl’s coronet in recognition of the University founder, the
9th Earl of Dalhousie. This part

 
  
   
   
   
     
 
      
    

Gracing the cap of the coronet
and therefore set above all is a silver Celtic cross surrounded by the
university motto “Ora et Labora”.
This type of early cross was chosen
as one most befitting a nondenom
 

inational Matitetion with Scottish
affiliations.

In conclusion it will be seen that
the mace in its general design conforms both in pattern and material
to historic and academic precedent,
while mairtaining an originality
which is essentially linked with the
story of Dalhousie University.

 

Around The Corner

From Anywhere

 

Ask for it either way
. both trade-marks
sj mean the same thing.

The Pause That Refreshes

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

 

Ne eet Vat ay Aa
ee sie y<

: : ;
i ahem pene Fee, inate: Yds Niand,, Reis wing ome Sem,
<< e Ss a. io s a

 
 
 
   
   

=~

ra

2 ae

oS ,
. . +

{7
F.

 

 

 

FE

a
Be

—

 

By JOE LEVISON

Despite the excellent work done by the Dalhousie Amateur Ath
letic Club this year in maintaining a full program of varsity and

interface sports under difficulties, a very impdrtant case has been forgotten. This is the squash budget, a little known service rendered by
the D.A.A.C. in past years for the convenience of those who haven’t
time to go out for varsity sports but who like to play this court
game which in half an hour can cram in the physical equivalent of a
football game or hockey match.
:

* *

That the DAAC has forgotten to include squash in its estimates
didn’t come to light until three weeks ago when the physical director's
office was swamped with a deluge of requests for balls and racquets—
the answer was that we have none and don’t know when we'll get them.
An inquiry was made to the DAAC who investigated among other
things the eight racquets bought on the budget last year (all broken)
the balls (all gone) and the budget (all expended).

* * *

The magnets said that the best
that could be done at that time
was to set aside a small amount to
buy balls for this year. Unfortunately for the players this won’t be
good enough. Squash racquets come
high ($8.00 for a fairly good one at
20% off). Most of the boys can’t
afford to buy them. The problem
with the budget, therefore, is this
—if the budget for squash is increased the money will have to
come off the budgets of the other
sports. No money is available
from the Students Council since the
DAAC requisites have already been
passed for the year, not to mention
the cautious financial position.

* * *

Does this sport merit the deducting of funds from other coffers?
It is the opinion of this corner that
money it is still worth it. Last| front line, right.
year the courts were played on an

a |

 

ALEC FARQUHAR, (above) one
of the most outstanding rugby
players Dal has seen in the last
decade, will lead the Tigers into
action in their exhibition encounter
with the Glace Bay Legionaires.

ALS "TO CLASH | WITH. REDMEN |

Dal To Play Final i Of Season

Against League-Leading Wanderers

The Dalhousie Canadian Feotball Squad will take to the field for
the last time this year this afternoon against the highly-confident
WAAC. Friday’s game should be the best of the year. The Tigers will
take to the field on the short end of the odds. However once before
this season after we had lost two straight games the know-it-all boys
generously predicted a winless season for us. When the Tigers walked
off the Truro field with a 20 to 6 victory tucked under their belts there
was more than one puzzled would-be-prophet. Their next game was
with Shearwater, After a hard fought battle Shearwater won the con
test 7 to 5

The Tigers were at their best nar er ee
this game When’ Shearwater and missed the game-winning
pressed, the line held, and as time oe only by oe He eos
went on it became increasingly | ¢¢ 1 vain to grab a high pass,

that bounced from his hands.

ae '

more evident that the Tigers were
getting stronger. Nevertheless, by
Hullah’s booting, Shearwater took
the game. One time was ascertained from this game that hitherto had not been reckoned—the Dal
line could hold. It was a tough

Alec has five years of Varsity | game for Dal to lose, as the Tigers

After a three week layoff the
Tigers met Navy, whom they had
previously beaten 20 to 6. The
result of the game was an about
face. Though Navy walked off
with the laurels and eliminated

Dal’s chances for a playoff spot,

| rugby behind him.

 

: vi Above is the 1949 Dalhousie Tigers Canadian Football Team. Standing at the left is Team Captain Paul
if this is the only way to get the|yo. Co-Capt. Andy McKay is No. 21, kneeling in the lower left corner; Coach Gabriel Vitalone kneeling in

| seored the onhy TD. oF ene game,

Dal in a sense may have eliminated

them. In the game they lost the
services of Carrol, their starry
backfielder.

Today we tackle WAAC. As
the story goes they are out to fatten their averages at our expense.
As far as our boys are concerned,
they will have to put up quite a
struggle if they are even to come
close to a win. In all, it should
prove to be the game of the year.

 

Tiger Hoopsters
Will Meet Navy

To-night at The Day Gym the
Intermediate Basketball Squad will
face Bob Coe’s Navy Quintet. This
game, a scheduled City League contest, will be the fourth appearance
of the Tigers this year In their
previous three games our undefeated Genbals have beaten all the
other league entries (except Navy)
racking up an impressive 172
points. The Tigers will be hampered by the loss of sharp-shooter

.

MGC ees ita Gordie MeCoy wh ill be playi
Sone other WARSITY RUGBY SQUAD WILL TACKLE THE GLACE BAY): » cues.” "™"™

from the professional schools
where time is at a premium, plus
about ten “sharks” from the Studley campus.
played squash last year than have! Breton champions, Glace Bay
people are definitely entitled to
consideration. which will take on the
MeCurdy Cup.

The Legionaires are coached by
Mel Shepherd, the former Tiger
mentor, and the Dal squad expects
a rugged brand of ball from the

Cape Breton veterans, who recently
MEN’S SHOP lost a very close game to the St.

» F.X. Varsity. MelInnis and Adshade, the big guns of last year’s
Headquarters Glace Bay aggregation, are both

for back, and, according to all reports,

Fine Clothing - Sweaters the Legionaires have much the

F as same team that beat Dal, 9-6, in
and ishings last season’s Maritime finals.

The Tigers have come through
Discount

the season without an injury, and
Extended to all DAL Students||| Will field the same squad that won
262 Gottingen St. 4-1172

the city title. Leading the Bengals will be Gordy McCoy, of Mt.
A., Fred Laphen, former St. F.X.
star, and Roddie Morrison, who
spent last season with the Glace

 

Registered
Jeweller A. G. S,

A simple phrase but your
protection when you need
a jeweller. etball League looks like a runaway for the Swish Sextet—( Don’t
louse this up Mr. Printer). Tuesday evening, in a hard fought
battle, the Swishers just edged

out the Skunk-Hollows 22 to 17.

Every Registered Jeweller
is examined yearly to test
his knowledge and must
be approved for ethical
standards,

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

ers with 20 points. Look out Scotty
Henderson. Barb Quigely with 10
points and Joan Baxter with 7
points led the Skunks attack.

In the second struggle the Atomettes bomhed the Schmoos with
a score of-18 to 12. Miss “Foo”

Marilyn MacIntyre paced Swish
Today the English aie team, now Halifax Senior League cham-©€
Certainly more people pions, left for Glace Bay to play an exhibition game with the Cape
Legionaires.
played certain minor sports. These Tigers some idea of their future chances, as’ the two teams are
scheduled to meet again in the Maritime Senior finals, the winner of
Maritime Intercollegiate

The contest will give the

champs for the

Bay team, and scored the winning
try against Dal in the finals.

The Bengal back-field will be
rounded out by two native Dal-|
housians, Alec Farquhar and Doug
McDonald, who have a total of
eight years of Varsity experience
behind them, and 190 pound Mike

Delory, the big surprise of this |
year’s league, and Dal’s leading |
scorer.

In the ball-quarter slot will be
Don McLeod a freshman, who has
shown tp well this season. Leading
the scrum are two Acadia veterans,
Eric Kinsman,-and Captain “Foo”
Grant. Big Jim Cruikshank, the
Maritime Intercollegiate heavyweight boxing champ, and Marvin
Ellis, will be in at lock, while the
front line will be bolstered by for
 

Swishes Lead Interfac Basket
Loop As McIntyre Racks Up 20

JACK SCHWARTZ
The D.G.A.C. Intra-Mural Bask-| Grant put 10 points through the

hoop for the winners while “Old
Reliable” Fran Doane held the
losers together with 7 points.

Speaking of Basketball — the
Varsity Basketeers are being
rapidly molded. Inside sources pre-:
dict that sure bets to make the
team are Marilyn MacIntyre, Betty
Cousins, Betty Petrie, Jean MacLeod and “Shoeless’’ Loosely Calp.
Other hopefuls are “Foo” Grant,
Gerry Grant, Barb Lohnes, and
Gay Esdale.

| year, the trip will more than make

|team fought hard during this half
| but were outplayed and out-hustled

 

LEGIONAIRES, CAPE BRETON CHAMPS, IN HOLIDAY GAME) seca

of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

mer Dal stars, Willis Archibald and
Ernie Frederickson.

Coach George Gray, Wally McDonald, and Don Kerr will be going
along in an advisory capacity.

If the Tigers meet the same type
of reception that awaited them last

 

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
| PHOTO SUPPLIES

Commercemen Lose 9, Dial 3-8539
To Engineers, 9-0

A powerful Engineer’s Rugger |
team downed a Commerce aggregation 9-0 in a scheduled game of

up for soe loss of yee sees 1 gaunt.

Prince St. 
 

the interfaculty Rugger League.
The game was played on _ the
King’s College Grounds, Wednesday, Nov. 9th, and was witnessed

 

by a large group of spectators.

The Engineers were led by Bob
Johnson, who scored the only Try
in the first half. Johnson scored
the Try after a spectacular run
through the whole Commerce team.
Goodyear was also outstanding in
this half for Engineers.

The second half opened slowly
with both teams fighting hard for
possession of the ball. Scott Goodyear scored the second Engineer’s
try after a nice run through the
Commerce backfield. The Com
but were outplayed and out-hustled
by the diminutive Engineers.

Seott Goodyear sustained an injury during this half but gamely
came back to score the third Engineer Try. Dee Shaw was outstanding for Commerce, as was
Keefe. Bob Johnson and Seott
Goodyear were outstanding for the
Engineers. Don Kerr was referee.

KEYHOLE NECKLINE! Newest?,
latest! In bold stripes, sparkling

colour schemes. All wool.
Popularly priced, everywherel

WO Lie

REG 'D

TEA eee OY,

 

 
