 

 

DAL
VS

NAVY
SATURDAY

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

 

COMMON
ROOM

DANCE
SATURDAY
NIGHT

  

 

Vol. LXXXII

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1949

No. 10

 

ALUMNI SMOKER SCORES SUCCESS
AS PRELUDE 10 HOMECOMING WEEK

 

The Bilgebottom family as they discuss Master Bilgebottom’s

designs on Miss Pimple.

(Miss Pimple) and Ray Smith (Master Bilgebottom),

 

marital
Seated from left to right are Holly Fleming
(Lady Bilgebottom), Don Smith (Lord Bilgebottom), Elaine Hopewell

Miss Nita Sed
eris, the villainous female has not yet made her appearance.

 

 

 

le Cercle Francais|NFCUS Executive to
Held First Meeting) Meet in Montreal

The first monthly meeting of
Le Cercle Francais was held in the
Engineering Building for the purpose of electing officers and outlining a program of activities for
the coming year.

Anne Peckham was _ re-elected
president for the third consecutive
term and Murray Tolmie was
elected Secretary-Treasurer. Gerald Gallant was placed in charge of
films while Geneva MacKay was
appointed Director of Activities.

With Mile, Peckham in the chair
future plans were discussed. It
was decided that to stimulate interest in France and the French
language, Le Cercle would present
the first act of “Topaz” as one of
its first dramatic productions of
the year.

M. Paul Chavy, lecturer in
Phoneties, presented several interesting films concerning France,
Montreal and rural Quebec after
which Le Cercle listened to a number of lively French Folksongs.

Christmas; Permanent
Work to be Available

Undergraduates and Graduates
seeking permanent or summer employment or those seeking work
during the Xmas rush period at
the Post Office should contact Mr.
G. A. Rice of the National Employment Service. Mr. Rice will
be in the basement of the Arts
Building from 1:30 o’clock, Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons
during November.

An exhausting one-day session is
planned for members of the executive of the National Federation of
when this group meets at the UniCanadian University. Students
versity of Montreal on Sunday,
November 13. The announcement
of the meeting was made here today by Richey Love, Dalhousie
Law School student and N.F.C.U.S.
President, who added that he expected all executive members
would be present.

The six-member group is meeting for the first time since its election at the annual N.F.C.U.S. conference held at Ottawa in September and they will discuss various
projects that have been undertaken
for the year. There are three main
topics on the meeting agenda as
the executive members will focus
their attention on the National
Council Report of the fall conference, the progress on the Brief on
Federal Aid to Education which
will be presented to the Royal Commission on Arts, Letters and Science when it sits at Halifax in
January, and N.F.C.U.S. publicity.
Mr. Love stressed the importance
of the Royal Commission brief and
pointed out that the preparatory
work is being done by students of
Dalhousie University, University of
Toronto and University of British
Columbia who have been compiling
their material over a period of several years.

However those interested must obtain a slip from Mr. Rice before
the middle of November, and are
urged to do so as soon as possible

Employment in the Post Office|as there is always a surplus of ap
will start not tater than Dec, 19th.

plications.

* * *

Annual Smoker Features Alumni Glee Club
Show, Introduction of New Faculty Members
As Graduates s and Undergrads Get Together

NOTICE

To All Organization Heads:

In future the Gazette will not
publish any notices which have
not the name of a responsible
member of the executive of the
organiaztion concerned to whom
the matter can be referred in
case of any difficulty.

All Notices for Tuesday’s
Gazette should be in by 12:00
Saturday and those for Friday’s
issue by 12:00 Wednesday.

The issue of the Gazette in
which the notice is to be published should be indicated by the
organization.

Where there’s

s smoke there’s fire—or else three hundred
os students taking advantage of the free

nicotine vices

offered by the generous Alumni of Dalhousie University.
Last Wednesday evening at an enjoyable smoker held in the
Gymnasium, a large percentage of the male element gathered
to take part in the entertainment available which ranked

from. speeches,

At eight-fifteen
housie band came forth with
surprisingly good music
get the program off to a suc
 

'cesstul start.

Out of the harmony sprang Mr. Ray Smith
to give a genial welcome to
those students who had turned out for the Smoker. In his
address, Mr. Smith expressed

 

aay orable sentiments towards

 

 

SERENADING OF SHIRREFF HALL—

Gazette Photo by Soberman
After the Smoker in the Gym

a Group of Students paid a nocturnal visit to Shirreff Hall to Serenade

the Inhabitants.

A sing-song ensued. Mason MacDonald (foreground)

is shown ‘bait with a ‘group of pnirret Hall Girls,

Dal eas Faculty |
Fellowships Awarded

The Dean of the Faculty of
Graduate Studies at Dalhousie University has announced the award
of three Teaching Fellowships,
each of value $750, provided
through the generosity of three
Halifax business firms.

These Fellowships, awarded on
the basis of scholastic ability, are
intended to assist promising students from the Maritime Provinces and elsewhere to continue
graduate work in the Faculty of
Graduate Studies. The holders will
also devote part of their time to
teaching duties in the undergraduate Faculty of Arts and Science,

 

'J. B. Embree, a

 

The following have been recom'mended to the Senate for awards
| for the present academic session:—
native of Port
Hawkesbury, Nova Scotia, who obtained his B.A. degree from Dalhousie in May 1949. He plans to
work toward an M.A. degree in the
Department of History,

H. N. Hamilton, a native of
Saint John, New Brunswick, who
obtained his’ B.A, degree, with
High Honours in English, from
Dalhousie in May 1949. He is a
eandidate for the degree of M.A.
in the Department of English.

K. D. Stewart, a native of Saint
John, New Brunswick, who obtained his B.Se. degree with distinction
from Dalhousie, in 1948. He is now
proceeding to the degree of M.Sc.
in the Department of Pharmacology.

introductions and sing-songs to the annual
| Marmalade Monaster y Melody

Moments.

the Dal| the Home-Coming Weekend.

Gordon Graham, who acted

to|as Master of Ceremonies for

the evening, with the help of
Gerry Naugiler got the students into the spirit of the
evening by conducting a sing
song. Undismayed by the
vociferous response to the
Emcee’s_ rabble-rousing, Dr.

Kerr cut his way through the
smoke to the stage w here he
proceeded to introduce the
thirty-two male additions to
the faculty this year.

And when the Dal Band
played selections, the Alumni
Glee-Club came to the rescue
by enacting a mirthful skit, in
which the secret affairs of the
Bilgebottom family were unveiled.

The Dal Glee-Club then came on
stage to sing a few songs. After
this refreshments were were served. Strengthened by the coffee
and sandwiches the guests felt
prepared to hear Bob MacDougall’s

pathetic impersonation of The
Three- Little Birds.

Art Moriera then said a few
words in appreciation of the Al
umni’s generosity. He hoped that
the Homecoming Week-end would
indicate the gratitude of the students toward the Alumni. Such
gratitude has been slow forthcoming in the past.

Credit is due to Miss Lila Tread
well who led a sing-song which
lasted for the remainder of the
evening.

Don Macaulay Elected

Committee Chairman

Last Monday evening, the Dalhousie NFCUS Committee held its
first meeting of the year. Richey
Love, last year’s Chairman, tendered his resignation. In the election
that followed, Jim Macauley was
elected as temporary Chairman of
the Dal Committee. Mr. Love
gave his report on the NFCUS National Conference and told of the
projects that NFCUS will undertake this year. In addition to the
brief to be presented to the Royal
Commission on Federal Aid to
Education, NFCUS will carry out
investigations into text book
prices, air-travel rate reduction for
students, a Quebec Seminar, Publicity and Debating.

 
 
    
  
         
             
       
         
       
 
   

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

or | 1 = PIT Us
et te st Fae] Ti oy
a ate st 4
Ds Me fi . bi)
ee 4 5 hte \
sy Pos hte J
a - !
7 : SB Acoll iol ¢
ao r
i ity
’ i

  
   

LHOUSIE GAZETTE

Member Canadian University Press

Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
University. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
Students’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
Dalhousie Gazette, Halifax, N. 8

PMEORIR, OPBICEY 65. 656.5. 0-0: dloec peers eee 3:7098
» RED LAMPERT pla ies it Editors-in-Chief
BRUCE LOCKWOOD i!
EC RRIEED PLAICE Go iratres pices eb be wes esas Advertising Manager
ET RRR A MAGE INS cs ofa wire alk o's Soda e ene ep hee Office Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
CHARLES MacINTOSH |

ees oe E R { Sie bie ute Subs eb ee lee es eae eB
MRO ee Ne Ni dy ch betwee ne cures Editors
MARG GOLDBURGH i el bed elere ole Bere ws et 0% Features itor

cree Fee ahi sy oe icti's Re eon! bare So A acoso Sports Editors
Sports Reporters......... Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
BmGre WEILEIE, & oc'k 0.50. wetalce ess Barbara McGeough, Eliphal Nichols

Reporters—Bruce Irwin, Patsy Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

RECT PRs Cal, beh ite dip. ein ele digs Beatrice MacDonald
PM Tens yin aa a u.e ste a a Wie cre as oth nD nie ae eee eg eed ee Lucy Calp
ETIENE DI eS es OL aie guia: eluate ce Gloria Horne, Rona Yess
2 EERE NEESER
Vol. LXXXII FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1949 No. 10

MID-YEAR EXAMINATIONS

Within recent weeks, both Acadia and the University
of New Brunswick have announced the abolition of mid-term
examinations. In a statement issued with their announcement respecting the new policy, the faculty of Acadia pointed
out that the new system would certainly have its defects,
but that it was felt to be a definite improvement over
the old. |

Polls taken at both universities have indicated that the
move was not popular with the students. In a survey conducted by The Brunswickan it was revealed that 79% of the
student body disapproved of the abolition of the mid-term
papers. An unofficial poll on the Acadia campus displays a
similar reaction among students there.

But student reactions in such. cases do not necessarily
show wherein lies the greatest good. The average student
is likely to take the stand that mid-year examinations make
a course easier, or at least, easier to study for at the last
minute, and will not consider the ultimate good brought
about by more methodical methods. In all too many cases,
a Bachelor’s degree is obtained by students whose only
recommendation is their ability to learn so much in so little
time to so little lasting advantage.

Undoubtedly, mid-term papers do have their good
points. They give the student an opportunity to see his
relative position before it is too late for any remedy, if one
is necessary. They afford an opportunity to judge a professor’s preferences . since professors are not mathematical calculators and do have individual preferences with
respect to types of material or styles required. And they
allow a student... particularly a new student ... to get the
“feel” of writing what may be an entirely new type of
examination.

But the new systems supply partial substitutes for
these points, in that regular tests ... tests not counting in
final examination marks ... are given. These tests can
provide a great deal of information about relative positions,
professors’ preferences, and type of examination.

The college student must learn that the burden of study
lies on him—his professor should not be required to apply
force. Similarly, he should realize that examinations should
not supply the only impetus for concentrated and consistent
study, rather the impetus should be supplied by a desire to
obtain the most from a given course.

For too long a time, the average college student has
been, and has allowed himself to be, spoon-fed. He enters

the world of business with the idea that he knows a very

great deal, and soon finds all the knowledge in the world will
not help him unless he learns—and learns fast—that there
nobody will drive him. For the business world helps only
those who help themselves, and an appalling majority of
students are only too willing to forget it.

THEY MAY WELL BE PROUD

Admirers of Jefferson Military College are offering
financial aid to the proud but poor little prep school which
turned down a $50,000,000 endowment because the gift was
conditioned upon the acceptance of a charter change providing that the school should be primarily for white Christians.

This refusal of a financially weak college, situated in an
area of the United States where the feeling of ‘white
supremacy’ is dominant, is a tribute to the integrity and
character of the university and its board of trustees. It also
makes us wonder about the recent persecutions of Communists in America, accused of subversive activities which
would undermine the democratic structure of the United
States. Yet a multimillionaire can with impunity advocate
the supremacy of the ‘white Christian’ without any reprisal
whatsoever. :

We live during a period of Red scare and atom fright.
Yet no acknowledgment is made of the Nazi Counterpart, the
man who preaches White Superiority. Because he is American he is right. Can we fully condemn certain political
elements for calling ours a decadent democracy and attempting to corrupt us to their interpretation of the best way of
life for humanity?

The question of slavery was not settled by Lincoln, nor
did the recent downfall of Germany put an end to the problem of religious persecution. Not as long as men such as
George Armstrong Sr., Texas and Mississippi oilman-capitalist can openly attempt to buy with dollars and cents the
right to enslave the minority groups through prohibition of
education or supremacy preaching.

We take off our hats to this tiny university which has
acted so nobly in the refusal to act the Judas for “thirty
pieces of silver’. .

 

Che

Wednesday, Nov. 2.—Up betimes
in great expectation of a fine day,
only I am most sorry I have start
ed poorly. For I did catch my toe
in the turned up hem of my nightgown and tripping did fetch my
upper lip a great blow on the edge
of a fine iron bucket beside my bed.

Cluteching up the bottom of the
damned nightgown in my hands |
to the house of office, glaring at
my wife on the way for she did
dare to laugh at me as I passed.
While sitting there, meditating, did
discover that by putting some of
the paper there around my fine
ivory comb and humming at it I
could make a sound most like to
that -of musique. And I am resolved I shall compose a_ small
solo for the comb and call it a
“Brown Study” in memory of -the
oecasion.

This day did meet Mis Majestie’s
Admiral “Salvo” Grunt, of which I
am not too pleased but I could not
avoid him, nor his civilian friend
who has never been in the navy of
the king except while crossing the
mouth of the Thames on a royal!
barge—and him they call “Foo”
Grunt. Which resolves me _ that
these new expressions they call
“nicknames” will not last. For
“Foolish” is much more expressive
than the foreshortening ”foo”, I
do think.

After tedious conversation with
the Grunts, I off to the wailing
wall, where, wailing I did find the
sober-sided T, Ignorance Moreso,
who spoke in melancholy tones, as
of a lover, of his great falling
down in the matter of Spearpeint
Quickly, who methinks had little
choice, and has done well for this
man Moreso will come to nought.

 

This night is to a great “All
Fool’s Day” dancing party at the
meeting place of the society of
knaves headed by Sir Lancelot
Shoutwell, called in strangé manner the Dry Felts. This name is
unseemly for none are dry among
their number. And there as guest
was the great head of the Pigma
Sties, Gael Moreso, in company
with Wasabelle Freezer.

Sadly, I did leave and make my
way home, tripping and cursing as
I went. And in my chamber I did
move the iron bucket to the other
side of the bed so that I would
have no difficulty on the morrow
as I had this day. And so to bed.

Thursday, Noy. 3. — Out of the
wrong side of the bed this day, and
so a sore foot, banged upon the
iron bucket which I am resolved to
keep under the bed from now on.

Outside in haste and shifting the
sunlight dial one small turn for
today the town do move onto
Standard Time,

Across the road did spy a great
fool riding upon a mechanical contrivance like unto a horse with two
wheels, and I am resolved to make
shift to speak not to the man for
he is surely mad with this put-putput in the morning. And _ his
family is well-descended I am told,
his father being of the house of
Morgan, although he do look not
too long descended.

And all the afternoon I did play
on my swinette and think on the
old days. Where are they all, those
great good friends and boon companions — Malcolm- Rooster-Gale
the sire of old Hantsport; and
Margerine Boil who is a great relic
of the old system which is not
much changed; and where is
Rocket Sheet of the triangle, and
Knave Flusher and “FatBack
Hate-it ?

In a melancholy mind I to bed,
with no kindness to my wife.

  

Sy =

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

  
 

 
 

“Congratulations, Mr. Clout N. Putt!
Your admirers wonder if you were always
confident of winning ?”’
*“Absolutely! Dry Scalp simply never had
a chance once I started grooming my hair
with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic.”

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

 

TRADE MARK

‘'VASELINE’ IS THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESESROUGH MFG. CO. CONS’D

>: CA pactice

. ‘ Ye
“TONIGHT .—

‘ iY eo =

WS CK

= -—$ob-ontsoi — s

“T wonder if they

“need a good basso”

Egbert’s basso may not be mucho profundo, but his knowledge of financial
matters goes deep. During his four years

at college, Egbert has been practising
money management at “MY BANK”.

Like thousands of students from coast
to coast, he’s been salting away the stuff
that glitters in a savings account at the
B of M. Now he’s got a reserve fund to
draw on when that heavy date comes up
and, what’s more, by handling his own
financial affairs, he’s getting rich — in
financial know-how.

uN ye

 

  
   
      

Why don’t you get hep to this angle,
and join in the chorus of money-in-thebank hallelujahs,

U4-4

erat tiga

Bank oF MonrTREAL

ELT LY |

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

JOHN A, HOBSON, Mer.
JOHN A, EDWARDS, Asst. Mgr.
CHARLES SMITH, Mgr North End Br:
: anch:
JAMES L, McGERRIGLE, Mer. Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

Halifax Branch:

 
early ballad material,
i ; as 3

a .
) "4 i Ba 1
: Hl <
yy ee dy *

my ae

fer
e a

iw

kh 5 :

A aed 7 |. ‘ 4
= _

hi

aU E - - tied

es 2 ‘ i) t 3 i} Se dh fod

4 ri os 4° e ; ; ¥ ei
s 3 b a

_ * & £te x ria

quired by Dalhousie

ae
a i
ie

Ve BL)
sis
f

Gaelic

dge George Patterson, M.A., LL.D., of New Glasgow,
alumnus, has added to the bequests of himself and his

pe

by. enriching the Dalhousie Macdonald Memorial
y with a splendid collection of Gaelic Books, some of

have a direct connection with the history and litera
e Province.

»

th This and similar collections, such as
ue gift of Dr. K. G. T. Webster, are building at Dala central repository of Celtic and Scottish literature
may well serve as a nucleus for material relating to

and New Scotland for which Dalhousie, by inheritance
tradition, will provide a natural home.

'a long and interesting list,
two volumes of most interest
eneral scholars and collectors
» an “elegantly” bound and
nted edition of “The Poems of
an” published, along with an
rior” edition, in 1807. Around
poems has raged a battle of
icism and scholarship not yet
the source, authenticity,
| literary merit of these transons, paraphrases, or forgeries
m the Gaelic have engaged romtic lovers of “the Celtic twi” and no less doughty a
pion than Dr. Samuel Johnwho made them the occasion
rther diatribes ~against the
and threatened Macpherson,
author-translator of “Ossian”
a stick. It is interesting in
onnection that one of the
valued possessions of Dalis a first edition, rare in the
binding, of Johnson’s Dic
.
acs
ed:

e other outstanding volume is
Book of the Dean of LisBy also connected with Macson, who may have picked it
‘in the Highlands, in 1760 and
ght it-to London, whence it
nt to Edinburgh, where after
viving various losses and dan$s common in the history of
| it was first
‘in part in 1862. -It is a col. of Gaelic poetry current in
South West Highlands in the
€ y sixteenth century, and was
compiled by the Dean of Lismore,
James MacGregor (a name later to
be well-known in Pictou County,
N. S.) and his brother.
_ Other valuable books are translations into Gaelic of the Bible and
the Psalms. The Bible was not
completely translated into Gaelic
until after 1800, the alleged hope
being that the Highlands should be
uraged in the use of English.

sa

‘Te
’ er sm ir
Pe oy a >

ey

Of the more recefit works, special
interest attaches to collections
made and published in Pictou by
Rev. James MacGregor, and _ in
Glasgow of poems collected in
Canada by the Rev. A. MacLean
Sinclair, With these are many
volumes of Gaelic verse, and of
prose translations and commentraies.

All in all, the collection is one
of which Dalhousie, with its ancient and honourable Celtic lineage,
may well be proud.

You get both when you buy Arrow Pajamas!

_ Handsome fit and sleepful comfort from the
day you buy ’em, until you stop wearing ’em!

iy p nie: ~ Seamless centre seam in the trousers! Plenty

of room everywhere! SANFORIZED trade

-marked—guaranteed never to shrink out of fit.
se your Arrow dealer! Cluett, Peabody &

‘Company of Canada Limited.

~
Mather ab
5 4~—° x

Li gon Sy, i
a a

we

Y eee
OORS ¢
=o % ¥

iy eel ie co : 5
ptmeoes Three. Minute Aid.
=, *. as a a . eo ie ns

4 a i Beas 1! sin et
ts pen Wenge hos BF
\ el * 2 s J
a S re 1 “y
' fos

It is hoped that this column will
become a regular feature in the
Gazette, but we need a reporter
with a versatile pen and a nose for
news.
for this interesting assignment
please contact Lloyd McCallum,
telephone 2-3822.

Sixteen Commerce stalwarts
limped off the football field last
Thusrday at the short end of a 9-0
score after a spirited encounter
with Arts and Science. The team,
now undergoing a rigid schedule of
training is confident of defeating
their next opponents.
ing, Professor Berman.

Commerce students are reminded
that society fees are now. due and
may be paid either to the Treas.,
Fred Laphen, or to your respective
class representative.

In closing, a belated, but nonethe-less warm welcome is extended
to our new Professor of Account
L. McC.

ommerce Corner

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

Those wishing to volunteer |

HONORIS CAUSA
Little Mamie wasn’t smart, but, she tried with all her might,
To learn to read, to figure and to write,
By perseverance and adherence, she passed her lower grades, ~
Her matriculation subjects, she managed just by shades,
By very loving parents, then, to university,
But a famine in the forehead forbade her a degree.
Little Mamie had the figure, fine looks and oomph,
And her curtailed days of school, ended in triumph,
She got a fine degree, an unqualified success,
But these letters went before, thus—M RS.

* aK * *

Huzzah! huzzah! huzzah! Our ruggah boys have emerged
triumphant again. The motto for the boys of the grande olde
game should be Per Ardua Ab Acadia Stulta. Everything is loused
up at dear old Wolfville, things are about as stupid as they can be.
Their ruggah team was not in good shape (or were they) as they
lost the dyke because of several breaks and panes,

* * F *

This, of course proves we were wrong again about the English
football. Anyway, seriously, the ruggah boys had a lot of fun and
played under very adverse circumstances. This corner admires the love
,of the game shown by the members of the Dalhousie English rugby
team—congratulations (any way they can hold their liquor).

* * bs ES

It’s about time, now, after three years, that our friends from the
MIAU start thinking about Canadian football. What do they want
the game to do to prove itself? In three years it has drawn
crowds, brought a great spirit to Dalhousie, and aroused provincewide interest through broadcasts and also, the raves of the press
about the quality of the football.

* * * *

It is no secret that Dalhousie is aiming for College competition.

_.| Next year the Tigers will have a field of their own, in fact, one of the

finest playing surfaces in the country. As usual, we expect great competition from St. F.X. and Acadia (if they can keep within the bounds
of reason) along with the New Brunswick Universities. All rights,
boys, we’ve seen your protest against progress, now come in and get
your feet wet.

* * * *

We note that Physical Director Vitamin Vitalone received a
great roar of approval when he was introduced at the alumni
smoker, and he well deserves it. The football team has shown great
progress under his care and the basketball team is coming along
by leaps and bounds (no pun). This corner predicted last year that
the cage Tigers would cop the Intercollegiate crown this year and
although the Xmen have a powerful aggregation the chances are
good that Dal will come through. It should be interesting and the
new stands should be full.

* * * *
TO ALONZO BACCARDI NICKERSON:
You can call me any names, but some you better not,
For any guy named Clarence, is usually you know what.

The Sabcapeable Cold; Its
Beginning, Middleand End

Cold is a word with a world of meaning. It can be used
in varying doses to describe any person, place or thing on

the face of this earth.
weather we endure most of

More abstractly, it is the type of

the year, and it is the stare

especially reserved for mothers-in-law.

As a descriptive, “cold” is used
and abused by the majority of the
earth’s people. Then this versatile
word “turns Turk” and abuses us.
It becomes a thing. :

A common cold commonly
known as...

I confess I have not had much
experience with common colds. So
far, every cold that has seen its
way fit to attach itself to me has
been a ‘proper’ cold.

A proper cold is of the throat
tickling, nose blocking, eye-watering, Kleenex-busting variety. It is
off to a gala start with a seared
throat effect. You check back and
remember that you have not accidently swallowed lye or razor
blades and say to yourself “I must
be catching a proper cold.”

Closely in the wake of the throat
condition comes the bottleneck
stage. During this period, your
head aches and makes a general
nuisance of itself to such an extent that you must keep reminding
yourself that to cut it off means
the end of your life.

An even more morale breaking
influence concerns the apple-cheeked healthy, and usually female
individual who looks at you and
says, “Have you another cold?”
She really means, “Does T.B. run
in your family”

So you think of nice-sounding
names like “Everglades” and
“Shady Rest”. In a moment, you
realize that your lot would be the

is

| Morris St. Hospital, so you have

another pull at the bottle of Pass
v4 ; LF ——

Registered
Jeweller A. G. S.

A simple phrase but your
protection when you need
a jeweller.

Every Registered Jeweller
is examined yearly to test
his knowledge and must
be approved for ethical
standards.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

TWIN SETI Fancy cable stitch
im pullover, across shoulders of
cardigan. All wool, popularly
priced, everywhere.

“gRONTO - CANADA

Say SCHWARTZ
and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W. H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

hs a 4m ms a if ; :
see Sg ae 1527, AGS = =>

 
    
 

  

_ PROS AND CONS

By JOE LEVISON

 
 

  

Pieidi has sown the wind and reaped the whirlwind, That is about
ll that ean be said of the dizzy whirl of last week’s events which have
ilminated with the crowning of the Dal senior Tigers as Halifax city
a hampions, and the displacing of the favourite appleknockers from the
bs lists.

  

  

  

~ Dalhousie gained the title by virtue of two wins over Navy, and a
rs oes by. Acadia. Let’s get some things straight about this forfeit.

  

xg vv - wished to play October 29th. We had no intentions of cancelling the
_ games from our end, Circumstances which had no effect on our ability
i to play the games made it infeasible for Acadia to play. Therefore
the executive of Acadia unconditionally forfeited the games.

 
 

  
 

he situation up to Thursday last then was Acadia having 4 points, |
_ playing Navy and needing a win to tie Dal with 6 points and force a
play-off. Navy rose in the role of giant killer to hold the Axemen to
a 0-0 tie and give Dal the title by one point. A couple of obvious facts
have arisen out of the mess. First, Dalhousie’s winning of the city
title can at best be described a hollow victory. To win the trophy with_ out having proven conclusively that the Bengals are a better team than
the Axemen is not a sportsman’s way of doing things. Secondly, our |
team now has a shot at the “McCairrdy Coop”, to quote coach George |
Gray. If our boys win, as they should over both Truro and Glace Bay, |
they will have to play the intercollegiate challengers. The regrettable |
upshot of the whole thing is that if it is Dal and Acadia playing off
for the McCurdy cup it will be a grudge game, and grudge games are
not in keeping with the best traditions of sport.

  

 
  
 

  

  

   
 

  

 

 
 

A lot of criticism has been levelled at Dal for accepting the for-|

  

games in question. In the past Dal has not been one to carry technicalities too far. Because of that Dal in the past has been a big brother
in many instansces on many past occasions, a victim on ever more.
Times have changed. Since the executive of other university athletic
clubs have not borne with Dal in her difficulties we have no choice but |
choice but to do the same,

 
 

  
  

Saturday is the day for the Canadian football squad. A win would
almost clinch a play-off berth, and should the Bengals win” the next
two games a four way tie for first place would result. Gabriel’s boys
are in fine fettle for the game, The line will be strong and an conditioned. In the backfield George Nichols who shone in a defensive role
for the Cats the last time out against Shearwater should be a big gun
_ offensively as well.

Don Harrison is ‘ararin’ to go, Bobby Wilson has regained confidence in his knee and Andy McKay who will be calling the plays with
the demise of Paul Lee has his spot down.

  

 
 

 

  
  

This is the first big Saturday attraction for the student body in
three weeks. The cheerleaders and the Dal band have been practising
hard in the interval, and the tumblers in particular have prepared a
snappy show so I’ve been told. There’s no getting away from the fact
that when a Dal team is playing and a Dal crowd is cheering at the

 
  
  
 
 
  
 

Rousisne do the same.

fy
a

 

I

 

Wanderers grounds the game takes on a life that none of the other.
teams can cope with. Get in on it, the boys need your support—as | their 64-31 upset of the South
players they'll do their best—let’s see you as supporters and Dal-| Gold team will meet Shearwater in the third scheduled game of the
| season,

1 y™
dj i le val’ A
a at ot » td
a ee

a 7 a
a oath mA BEERS >
(pial itt ey

At 2.30 P.M. tomorrow the
Dalhousie Tigers will meet the
Navy in a scheduled game of
the Halifax Canadian Football
League. .The Bengals have to
win both of their remaining two
games in order to qualify for
the play-offs.

The squad has been plagued
by injuries, but Coach Vitalone
has stressed versatility, and all
players are now proficient in at

least two positions. The only |
previous Dal victory has been
over the Sailors, and the boys
are determined to duplicate
their Truro performance.

feits. Well, we had done our part in completing negotiations for the | Be

 

 

 

  

Meet SCOTT HENDERSON—

member of this year’s Ritéeinediate
and Varsity basketball squad.
_ Scotty is well known for his abil
 
   

Meet the Hoop Squad |Dal Wins Rugby Title
As Navy, Acadia Tie

The Dalhousie Senior Rugby Team,

by virtue of Navy’s score
onders.

ity as a basketball player, having
played on last year’s championship
Junior team. Before coming to
Dal, Scotty played standout ball
for King’s College.

Scotty does not confine his athletics to basketball alone. He has
long been a star in the Interfaculty Ruggah League, playing
for the staunch Arts & Science
team. He is also an active participant in the annual King’s Marathon and usualy finishes near the
top. ; a

He is recognize as one of the
best offensive gaurdls around, being particularly dangerous under
the basket, and also as being very
effective on defense. At 20 he has
not yet hit his peak and is looking forward to the best season of
his career.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

  
 
 

  

  

    
  

       
  
    
   
  
   
    
   
  
   

————

 

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all” 
Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
_ PHOTO SUPPLIES

Bs [me ‘ince St. - Dial 3-8539
ee 1

et
Le a0

less tie with Acadia last Wednesday at Wanderer’s Park, won the City
Senior League Championship. Dalhousie had beaten Navy twice and
lost one game to Acadia. This gave them four points in league standing. Because Acadia forfeited their second game to Dalhousie on Oct.
29th, Dalhousie was given their six points total. Acadia on the other

| goal for Acadia.

hand had’a win over Navy and over Dal for four pOuNe.

They weré forced on brink of
elimination to defeat Navy in Wednesday’s game. This would have
given them a first place tie with
Dal and forced a playoff for the
championship. However this is all
history. The Navy lads came
through with a fine performance in
the final game of the league
schedule.

DAL SOCCERITES
LOSE TO ACADIA

Dalhousie and Acadia Soccer
teams met in their first game of
the season Wednesday. Although

 

D.G.A.C.

Activities

The second round of the Intermural League was played off on
Tuesday night *with the Swish defeating the Schmoos 26-12, and the
Atomettes being downed by the
Skunk Hollowites 18-21.

Both teams displayed some good
basketball in thé first game. There
was lots of fight, without the
game getting too rough. wantin see
Schmoos held their own for the
first half, but by the second half,
the superior shooting of the Swish

weather conditions left the final began to show.

score a lot to be desired, both
teams turned in a good performance, the final score being 4-3 in
favour of Acadia.

The first goal was scored by
Dalhousie in the first minute of
play by Macdonald. The score was
evened by a most unusual type of
During a heated
controversy about the illegal
charging of the Dal goalie, the

| “scorer” actually handled the ball

: 4S ae Ee a *.
eek We 7.45 eed behead
: - Th: aes as!
, e my Wi a vw! as

Marilyn MacIntyre and Betty

 

before kicking the goal. Dal charged back with Peters scoring another goal.

Acadia countered with three
quick goals, one on an offisde
play, and in the last five minutes
of play MacDonald scored a third
goal for Dalhousie, leaving the

final score 4-3 for the visiting

team.

 

I McKey, Findlay Star me ‘Bengals Costas Winning
Streak With Decisive Victory Over Southend:

On Tuesday evening, in a rough basketball game played at the
Shearwater Gymnasium, the Dal Intermediates garnered their second
straight win in league competition, as they swamped the Southend

aggregation 61-36.

The scoring was opened after two minutes of slow play, as Scott

Morrison sank a foul.
the lead 2-0.
star,

Play was slow until, with nine
minutes remaining in the first half,
Mason MacDonald sank two shot
and Andy McKay looped a third to
put the Bengals ahead by a 16-9
score.

The Southend team crept up on
baskets by Healy and Forbes, but
at pee time the Tigers lead. 25-11,

It’s good for two points as Andy McKay sinks one for the Tigers in

Saturday night the Black and

Cousins turned in high-scoring
games for the winners with Fran
Doane as top point-getter for the
losers. Betty Petrie and Caroline
Weld were the mainstays of the
guard lines.

In the Atomettes - Skunk-Hollow
game, although there was lots of
spirit the actual floor play was not
too good.

Nita MacDonald was chief scor
ler for the Atomettes, with Marg

 

“Foo” Grant placing several very
nice free shots. Joan Baxter was
the star of the Skunk Hollowites,
accounting for 14 of the teams 21
points.

Miss Evans and Jean McLeod
did the refereeing, with Connie Cyr
timing and scoring.

And co-eds, how about coming
swimming on Monday at 4.80, remember if we can’t get 15 people
there each Monday, well no
alia after Christmas.

 

 

MEN’S SHOP
a

Headquarters

eS
for
Fine Clothing - Sweaters

and Furnishings

Discount
Extended to ail DAL Students

262 Gottingen St. 4-1172

 FORSYTH’S |

 

 

Bob Black tallied another foul, putting Dal into
Southend went ahead as Ed Healy, a former Dal Grad
sank two and Betts racked up a free throw.

o—_—_———
Andy McKay was by far the

most outstanding player in this
half, leading the seoring with six
points. The smooth guard also set
up at least three more baskets.
Mason MacDonald played his usual
aggressive game tallying five
points.

The second half started off with
a bang, as Southend, led by Healy
-|brought the score to 27-17, but the

Tigers came back strong as
Mahon scored twice and McCoy
went all the way from his own

basket to net two points.

With ten minutes remaining in
the game the Cats began to roll,
with Connelly and McCoy spearheading the attack. Then came
what wa sthe most amazing shot

of the game. “Red” Findlay, playing his second varsity game,
flipped one over his head back
wards for twa points.

Healy continued his outstanding
performance for the Southend
squad, sinking shot after shot,
ending up with 20 points to his
credit. .In the final second of the
game McCoy flipped a long set
shot to end the seoring with the
Tigers one the heavy end with a
61-36 score.

The line-up for the Bengals was
as follows: Mahon 7, MacDonald 7,
Morrison 5, Black 3, Henderson 4,
MacKay 10, Connelly 9, MeCoy 10,
able Su Gy ener Tanner and Robertson.

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price
for Young Men

 

/ Miny }
| [3 |

TT if

 

 

  
   

  
      
      
     
    
         
      
 
   
 
     
      
     
    
    
      
    
    
    
 
    
      
 
     
      
       
      
     
     
     
     
     
    
      
  
   
            
       
 
      
     
        
       
  
        
        
         
   
  
  
