 

  

|
|
|
|
|

    
  
  
 
   

CAG RRC,

sag
‘

an

= a
*

cm, eS

“*

; ‘

ald leave today for Toronto where

annual debate between the law schools, to be held this week.

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N. S.. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1950

 

Gazette

Photo by Soberman

Dalhousie Law School Debaters, Leo McIntyre and Ron MacDon
they will meet Osgoode Hall in the

 

Student Council Discusses Gazette,
Pharos, Student Forum at Meeting

s
’s
’

At a meeting of the Dalhousie Students’ Council held
last night, the issue of the 1948-’49 Pharos was once again

raised, in the form of a repor
President Moreira.

the Council’s actions on the matter since August of last year

>

 

 

D-Day Announcers
Now Being Chosen

The D-Day auditions were held in
the Gymnasium last Friday afternoon and again on Monday afternoon. After hearing the contestants on Friday, it was thought advisable to give them another test
on Monday, this time using a microphone. Thirty-seven were heard
and out of them seventeen were
chosen to re-audition at CJCH

Those chosen for re-audition

- were: Joyce. Hart, Ernie Semple,

Wij Seeley, Natasha Coffin, Coling
MacDonald, Maurice Foisy, Ian
MacDermaid, George Tracy, Joe
Levison, Gerald Nelson, Jim Bennet, John Jenkins, Jack Haystead,
Bruce Irwin, Robin MacNeil, Jim
Smith, ‘Martin Smith, and Harold
Stevens.

The judges for the auditions
were; Ian MacDermaid, Maurice
Foisy and Bruce Lockwood. It is
imperative that all those names
which appear in the preceding paragraph watch for notices telling
them when and where the final
audition will be held.

News scripts, light music, and
classical scripts were the things
which the prospective announcers
were asked to read. Of particular
interest was a classical script
which gave quite a few of the contestants some trouble. :

Those who were not among the
winners are asked to apply for
jobs as scriptwriters, traffic etc.
There were a few experienced
announcers who tried out and this
should be a valuable asset to the
pereracaing. March Leth,

The report, given to Council member
last week for consideration, contains ‘a complete statement of

t submitted to the Council by

| The meeting amended Mr. Moreira’s report on two points; then
adopted it, excluding an addenda
of personal views. A motion that
the report appear in Friday
Gazette as amended was passed
and a committee was appointed to
find the true onus to be placed on
last year’s Pharos staff for the
lateness of their book.

The second Student Forum to be
held this year was_ slated for
Thursday, February 23rd. At that
forum will be discussed both last
year’s and this year’s Pharoses ..
with the hope that all students will
have read the various viewpoints
as expressed in the Gazette.

The agenda of the Forum will
also include a report by the Gates
Receipts Committee concerning
student payment for the gymnasium bleachers, arising from confusion which became apparent before the Dalhousie-St. Francis
Xavier basketball game.

A general review of Gazette
policy was undertaken, and it was
eoncluded that on the whole the
Gazette had attempted to cooperate fully with the Council. However, in certain instances, the
Editors could have paid stricter
attention to their discretionary
functions.

Notice

The Pharos Committee for 1949’50 warns that all graduating students have not yet made their
appointments for Year Book pictures. Photography will stop in
two weeks, and absolutely no
photos will be taken after that
time.

TS

[That the Federal Government | liability to this great Dominion,

Be % * *

| D. LHOUSIE GAZETTE

» POORMAN’S
LAW BALL
SATURDAY

NIGHT

 

 

"FOUR PARTIES PARTICIPATE I
SESSION OF MOCK PARLIAMENT —

* oh *

Newly Formed Maritime Rights Party Is
Featured iin Mock Parliament as Students

Last night the Umteenth
Parliament was held
Building. Four
servative, CCF
Rights Party.

Three raps

What as et
Did Last Night

1. Decided to take no action on
Toronto Book Store Issue.
2. Appointed one-man committee to consider donation to
YMA;
3. Yearbook:
(a) Motion to include report
in Friday’s Gazette.

and

by Set-at-Arms Feener.

of the Senate, Mr.

top-hat.

 

(b) No binding started on - +
*48-’49 Pharos.
(c) Appointed committee to

investigate responsibility
of staff for lateness of
Pharos.

4. Decided to hold Students’
Forum Thursday, Feb. 23rd.
Agenda:

(a) 1949-’49 Pharos.

(b) 1949-’50 Pharos.

(c) Payment of Bleachers. |
(d) General discussion.

5. Reviewed Gazette policy.

6. Appointed Election Committee,

Co-Ed Week to Feature
Sadie Hawkins Dance

Now’s your chance gals to nab)
that elusive man. Bring him along |
to the Hall to-night for a fast’!
game of bridge from eight to ten
and if he hasn’t been afflicted by
the bridge bug come at ten-thirty
for dancing till the witching hour

¥ ; ; j

: |

; :

peer ; ay }

 

(Staff photo by M

arshall)

 

in the Munro
Parties participated, including Liberal, Cona newly

The House was silent as Mr.
man with dignity and decorum backed out again. As Speaker
Feeney was most impressive in his tall

 

 

1 session of the Dalhousie Mock
Room of the Forrest

formed group, the Maritime

on the door of the House of Commons announced the Usher of the Black

tod, Mr. Lederman, followed

Leder
The Speech from the Throne was
delivered by Mr. Malcolm Patter
son, who praised the Government
and wished them success in the
future. Mr. L. Fraser, elected

Speaker of the Commons by Doug
Robertson, the Prime Minister,
thanked the House for his election,

and undertook to observe the pro-’

ceedings with absolute impartiality. Two bills were introduced,
following which Robertson replied
to the Speech from the Throne,
quoting statistics as to the great
growth of trade and benefits to
Canadians since 1985. The reply
in French was given by Mr. Pharand. The P.C.’s, CCF and Maritime Rights led by Messrs. Mathews, Chisholm, and Fitzpatrick,
were, to say the least, loud and
active opposition. After the Debate, the Speaker adjourned Parliament until Feb. 21

of midnight. Thursday evening all! Jiast Pyidav Bielih | the: anndal | : Mr. Fitzpatrick, leader of the

. , = ‘ s = af a Wid wth) » io S Joy y y rove ‘
the gals are gathering at the Hall) vijlionaires’ Ball was held in the | Maritime Right: Party, gave a
at eight-thirty and going serenad-| pa] pym. As is the usual custom, a clear analysis of the deplorable

ing at the Men’s Residence and) cweater Girl was chosen from

and unnecessary situation in the

Pine Hill. Friday night is the real- among those present. The winner Maritimes. As Mr. Hillman aptly
ly big event with the SADIE of the contest this year was Chris- ad-libbed it —‘*We want steak for
HAWKINS DANCE at the Dal | tina Mackcen. the Maritimes, not bologna,”

gym. True soap-box oratory was dis
New Maritime Rights Party Formed

By Law Students in Mock Parliament

A new party, known as the Maritime Rights Party has
arisen in the Law School in time to partake in the Mock Parliament now underway on that Campus. The idea for the
party originated with John Fitzpatrick, now leader, lan Robertson, Secretary, Arleigh Hillman and Chester MacDonald.

They felt that it would be a good @——_——___—__
idea to prove to the students from} should encourage interest in the
other parts of Canada that the) Maritimes, both internal and exMaritimes, rich in natural re-|ternal; (5) That the Dominion Goysources, is a good place for indus-| ernment should employ only Canatrial development; to show them/dian Ships: and Seamen in taking
that the Maritimes are not getting | cargoes to the West Indies; (5)
their share of Canadian Industrial} That the Dominion Government
Development; that the Maritimes|should use only Maritime Ports
are hindered by the Government|now as. well equipped as any
policy of Nationalization and that| American Atlantic Ports, to handle
the Maritimes could do a better job| import and export trade.
of controlling their own destinies
than the present policies of the
Federal Government can do.

The party’s policies are as following: (1) Removal of National
Harbours Board over Maritime
ports; (2) That the Government
should buy only coal mined in the Looking into the future, the
Maritimes; (3) That the Maritime! Maritime Rights Party hope to
Freight Rate Act should be amend-|have a good following who will
ed whereby Maritime Industries|in their confidence, inspire a happy
might be able to compete on equal|and prosperous Maritime Group
basis with the rest of Canada; (4) | which will be an asset instead of a

The aim of the party is to try
and augment interest in it all
through Canada as well as in the
Maritimes and that they will
achieve their ends through this
peaceful mode of campaign.

played by Mr.
the House in
while extolling
CCF party.

Chisholm, who kept
gales of laughter
the virtues of the
He and Mr. Loucks
(Continued on page four)

UNB Wins From Dal
In Sodales Debate

In the first intercollegiate debate of the year the University of
New Brunswick defeated Dalhousie
University on the question, resolved “that Canada should adopt immediately a system of compulsory
military training”. The affirmative of the debate was upheld by
Alfred Harris and Roderick Chisholm representing Dalhousie. The
visiting university team was composed of Ralph Hay and John
Hildebrand.

 

The judges were Rev. D, M. Sinclair, Magistrate R. E. Inglis and
Miss Marion Dauphinee, Principal
of Halifax’ Ladies’ College. Considering the numerous gala affairs
that were in progress on the Campus the date of the debate, the
turnout was excellent, both spectators deserve credit for attending.
al’s team, despite the loss, show
outstanding promise and there is
no doubt that we will redeem ourelves in the near future.

 

Ps =

‘=
or iO ba ey a
a =a a a! " S Ai > * a ig 4 J
men 4 ; le ; G '
re Fe ae P 7 , Ae
- Ge , a ai ‘ ; :
u rt i a : _ an i A = - 4 Bi a 4 .
o as ee eee oa = = i
i M . ) 5 :". r
» 4 ee ‘ bt a a ,
ih 'T a ; Poe ht * -— ae i
: a ~ si _ "
-* Ae ie a : &
, A Saati i) , coast i A a ‘i a
.

1
i.

  
   
   

 
    
 

=e

os ’

CA

   
     

A’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
ORIN Tu). . 2 Phone,8-7098

ss Member Canadian University Press ie
ublished twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie

bs niversity. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the

- §tudents’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,

Dalhousie Gazette, Halifax, N. S$

or-in-Chiief .. ... 5. et NR fs the its Bruce Lockwood

ag EM Po oc u sldbec sve auivielcy Vulbiveueee aes Maurice Foisy

EMRE Re be Cy ek eke one Alfred Harris

Maes, i5 > EDITORIAL STAFF

ese 6 6'Oi8 SOE 2 OP emse tapas seteeere oo 6

 

     
  
 
 
 

/ Charles MacIntosh
Valerie Cato

  

 

; Marj Golberg
S OG @14.e 074.3) ¢ @: 2 6.9 8 @ 6 a's @.0 6 666 @ a Bruce Irwin
! Don Kerr
eeeev ene 2 0.0 1618 6 6.6 6 0.0 6 Wie 6 6 6 Bea ew 6 Pat Ahern
Bete bt hikes ek TE et OAe ae eiievyssence Om MacDonald
MIAME GAERUL wic Bie 0 hyellit« Gate k's s wd ale Ralph Medjuck
Peer nee e alae wile aw diatele'e 6M ce alevele Barbara McGeoch
Reporters .......... Bob McInnes, Noel Goodridge, Betty Livingstone
Photographer ..... ene, bibs SEAM EAR Aris, Se cia a ath ore Salo: € Dan Soberman
=e ESS eS eae Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
IC Pe OEE hi es VPNs Code ce eelivedsecre Luey Calp
py MISCELLANEOUS |
_ Circulation Manager ............... awn BAN aaa d Sioa Murray Higgins
I. LXXXII TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1950 No. 29

 

CULTURE AND APATHY

tea (The following is an editorial which appeared in
the University of Western Ontario Gazette, on the occa
~~ sion of their Humanities Issue. It applies equally as

ae ‘well to the Dalhousie Gazette, and to student affairs in
"+ 4. general.)

This issue is grandly labeled the Humanities Issue.

of The Gazette. In theory this means that humanities

_ students pour forth their culture into its pages — in
_ practice it signifies that half a dozen or so overworked
English and History students, most of them previously
connected with The Gazette anyway, will try to fill up
several dozen columns with whatever they can muster.
What the result will be is rather frightening to think of.

Like every group, The Gazette does the best it
can with limited support. This issue, the Humanities Issue, emphasizes what is apparent to everybody, and has been for a long time. This is the
lack of interest, or lack of co-operation, shown by
many of the best students in school activities.

| In many respects The Gazette is the most important

of all student organizations, since through its pages
“a students can express views which can influence, and
foie. oe change the outlooks, not only of fellow students, but of
faculty, administration, and the general public as well.
Consequently, it is essential that gifted and intellectyal
students should contribute to The Gazette as often as

Gazette by either economics or history students. A
student column on world affairs would be a valuable
asset; unfortunately, history students, who. should
possess the requisite knowledge and background, do not
seem to possess the enthusiasm to go with it. Editorials
featuring the scientific attitude to basic modern problems would be welcomed by The Gazette, science students apparently have not been interested in writing
them. Modern planning, socialism, communism, capitalism, all involve ethical and moral consideration —
where are the students in philosophy who might com4" ment on them? In the Folio, book reviews and critical
+a articles have been sought after with desperation, yet to
Rie obtain them from English students is like pulling teeth.

possible.
ee This clearly is not done. Canada and the world are
i 4 today faced with crucial problems involving economic
aaa and political decisions, yet there has been little if any
es discussions of them, or elucidation of them, in the

 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
     
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
    

i seat ele: _ The Gazette, and especially the editorial page,
De a should be a student forum. At present, it is no
forum, since there are few participants, and most
who can and should participate unfortunately do
not. It should be clear that any university students
worth his salt should have mature opinions on subjects in his own field, and when this field involves
the welfare of all of us, he should contribute his
views at least occasionally. History students should
have well balanced opinions on world affairs; economics students should have opinions on the
Marshall Plan, on European recovery, on socialism
and capitalism; English students should know and
understand modern trends in literature. ‘

If democracy means anything, and we assume it
does, it is essential that leading students play a much
larger role in the future, both in the formation of student opinion and in the analysis of contemporary probots lems. The Gazette is the ideal place where such
contributions might be made, and if humanities stuBae dents, and especially those working in economics, history
Ri oe and philosophy, would express themselves as_ they
_ should, then The Gazette would assume a more mature
Pee! nud valuable position in university life.

Maren Ere gL i OS fa

i Ly
, a \ Raat el lel he
" PL Piha oy 5 ee a | a
; \

      

 
     

 

  

Friday, Feb. 10, 1950.—Up betimes and walking about the town.
Did obtain a copy of the Spectator, Early Edition, and did see
therein that a new political party
has been formed by the scholars
at the Law School. Did hear that
this new group, led by Lord Misfits (Patricks has aroused great
consternation among the ranks of
the party that is to form the
Government, though the outcome
is still in doubt.

Did walk about the campus of
the college on the hill where I
found many of the scholars. The
young gentlemen did look rather
worried about something, whilst I
could detect a gleam of mischieviousness in the eyes of the damsels.
One of them did remark to a
desperate-looking young male, ‘I’m
from the West and can lassoo and
tie a steer; wait til next week’...
Another did say “What do you
think we girls have been taking
archery for all year?” At this
several more timid-looking young
men did leave hastily.

Still rather puzzled at all this
I did walk about. I met Miss Wasabelle Bustle, who did carry in her
hand a bear-trap, and did ask her
the reason for all this menacing
activity. She did relate to me a
story of utmost confusion, telling
me that in honour of one Miss
Gladie Crowins all the damsels do,
during one week of the year set
aside for that purpose, cast aside
their modesty and turn the aggressor, endeavouring in all ways fair
or foul, especially the latter, to
entrap and enslave a man. I did
innocently remark “And what is so
unusual about that? It happeneth
all the time.” Whereupon she
hurled at me the bear-trap, leaving upon my cheek a peculiar mark
that I will be hard put to*explain
to my wife.

Did meet Joe Lightdaughter
who is the head of the AINT. I
heard that he has a mania for the
accumulation of autographs, for he
desires to collect the signatures of
all the scholars, hoping that in future years many of the scholars
will become famous and that he
will be able to support himself in
his old age by the sale of these
signatures which will then have become valuable by then. He is doing
this by the ingenious pretext of
soliciting funds for the AINT, thus
helping the organization and furthering his own collection.

Next did meet Miss Wouldn’t,
the Editor of the new Far-off, She
did have a bundle of papers under
her arm and did look very efficient.
She did smile sweetly and did say
to me “Good morning Mr. Peeps”.
I asked her how her new work was
progressing, to which she replied
that she could do with some assistance from members of the student
body in compiling the work. Just
then an apathetic looking lout
ambled up and said ‘Miss Wouldn’t,
when is last year’s Far-off coming
out?’. The poor damsel muttered
“T don’t know, next week perhaps.”
She did tell me in confidence that
she spent much of her time answering such questions. ;

Monday, Feb. 13, 1950. — Did
have a heated debate with my wife
about the proper place of women.
She did point out the behaviour of
the Dullhousie damsels, who are
permitted to shamelessly pursue
men during one week of the year,

I did decide to put a stop to this,
if I could, and hastened to the
offices of the Spectator to enlist
the aid of my journalistic friends
in this noble endeavour. To my
horror I found I had been too late
and that the office was filled with
women who were working on the
publication of the Spectator. I
asked for my friend Loose Blockhead, but they said they did not
know where he was. However, I
did hear a muffled voice erying out

(Continued on Page Three)

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

914 Prince St.

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

HALIFAX, N. S.

*‘Sockem Stiff wins by a knock-out! How about
a word to the folks, Sockem? Were you ever

“Yes, I had lots of trouble with Dry Scalp
and unruly hair. But I kayoed both with

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS
and
BLUE PRINTING

8814, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

   
   

 

     

 
 

   

- Dial 3-8539

   
   
 
   
    
  
  
 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1827’’,

Installed and Serviced

79 Upper Water St.

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

 

in trouble?’’

‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic.”

TRADE MARK

“VASELINE' IS THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESEBROUGH MFG. CO. CONS'D,

DALHOUSIE. UNIVERSITY

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

Education Hospital Pharmacy
Engineering Mining Geology
Engineering Physics Music

Food Technology
PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offerin

THE FACULTY OF LAW,
THE FACULTY OF MEDI

C.M.

Scholarships, each of a minimum Vv
students applying for admission fro
Colleges of the Maritime Provinces
of educational attainments, ;

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for f
courses, residence facilities, and

 
  
     
 

 

 

 

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Degrees of:

Diplomas in:

Pharmacy
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

in Many Departments

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

FXPO

CANADA’‘S FINEST
CIGARETTE

DARTMOUTH, N. 8S.

Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of Science

g Master’s Degrees

granting the degree of LL.B.
CINE, granting the degree of M.D..

THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY

The School of Graduate Nursing,
Health Nursing, Teaching

» granting the degree of D.D.S.

granting diplomas in Public
and Administration

alue of $600.00 available to
m High Schools or Junior
and awarded on the basis

ull information as to fees.
dates of registration.

  
 
  

   
  

  
 
  
         
     
     
    

    
   
   
    
  

 
 
    

Be ire A

ee
ay

nl i ;
fa phy ie, ia te ary 1]

Ve

   
   
  
   
   
    

         
     
   
       
         
     
       
       
        
      
       
   
  
  
 
 
  

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
     
   
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
    
     
    
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
    
 
    
  
  
  
 

We felt that a Co-Ed paper
~ would not be complete without
sophisticated wit; we have been
feeling quite funny lately but not
¥ ‘particularly sophisticated, and anyway, who could duplicate The New
Yorker? :

* * *

MOST FASCINATING NEWS
i STORY OF THE WEEK
(The following item, reprinted in
_ its entirety, is from the Longmont
- (Colo.) Times-Call).
| wy ot oe tes, Mont,—(AP)—A_ cusst tomer came into a_ store here,
‘Pp pinted at a window full of rabbits
zs “an d said “I want to buy them. All
ie ' them.”
bat “Clerks dutifully crated the 15
b unnies along with a package of
@ feed but curiosity prevailed and
they asked the man what he wantA with so many bunnies.

DAIRY WORLD BUSY SEEKING
py KEY TO SEX

Leader Reports Success Prospect

eo As Very Doubtful

_ Headlines in the Toledo Blade.

On the other hand, you rarely find
Brasiistle pelt.

«

 
  

% but ee drop be ane

+ not just a timid dab behind | n

At Practice for “The Pirates’’

ee: with apologies to Gilbert & Sullivan

When Professor Hamer blows upon his whistle,
_ And the ladies through the lower gym, advance,
| For miles around the students know that this’ll
es Be a practice for the “Pirates of Penzance.”
‘ The pirates all are swinging from the rafters;
The policeman’s truncheons crash upon the floor;
bs The Major’s-Generals doubled up with laughter;
fon And the basketball team watehes from the door,

iy

When there’s work upon “The Pirates” to be done, to be done
A Glee Club practice is uproarious fun.

The professor acts the opera out before us;
The pirates and police come marchin in;

As loud and louder rings each mounting chorus,
We almost lift the roof right off the gym.

.The shades of G. & S. above us hover

At the midnight hour when homewards we advance

From one end of the city to the other

| __ Singing choruses from “Pirates of Penzance”. tae

oe §

“a

_ When there’s work upon “The Pirates” to be done, to be done
A Glee Club practice is uproarious fun. x

t _ Some Incidential Intelligence

the bottom of your plunging neckline. — Perfume ady. in The New
Yorker.

And the rest of the bottle in his
drink ?

Vi: 2a Ue \

IN A NUTSHELL

A teacher at the Julia Richman
High School (four thousand girls)
has confessed to us that she peeked
at -the open biology notebook of
one of her freshrnan students the
other day and glimmed a page
headed “REPRODUCTION,” with
three or foun heavy underlines:
“Reproduction” had been the subject of a painstaking lecture earlier in the week. Beneath the heading, on an otherwise blank page,
was the brief, to-the-point entry:

The Sexes—

1. Male > 4
2. Female } ‘

* * +

The Rockefeller Jomes Fund of

$10,000 was bequeathed the Uni
versity by legacy of Elizabéth B.
Jones in memory of her husband,
Thomas Rockefeller Jones, A.M.,
LI..B., of the Class of. 1862, with
directions “that the. annual income
arising therefrom Shall be divided
| into. ney scholarships, which shall
ded annually to two young
id moral character.”

nae were not award-| T

Feb. 6—Up betimes and to oversee the girl in setting straight my
husband’s study which he did leave
in mighty disorder. Did find in his
desk a book writ in a_ strange
secret writing which I could make
nothing of, but did think it to be a
diary. Did see £5000 writ plain
which I did take to be my husband’s fortune. Shall assuredly
order the yellow brocade petticoat
I did admire. And I shall write a
diary too, only taking pains to
keep it safe hid.

Feb. 7 — Mr. Woodman to dine
and he much puzzled over two earrings he did find in his carriage,
they being not mates but quite
different. My husband mightily
amused and did suggest that Mr.
Woodman offer them to Mistress
She’s Coy and Mistree Beetree,
whom he did escort to a Ball in
company with Lord Wells. Do
think the new style earrings most
unsafe and am resolved always to
wear the old which remain in place
whatever I may do.

Feb. 9 — This morning did call
upon Wedge Lookshe the celebrated actress who is resting after her
fine performance in Mr. Shakespeare’s play, Othello. Had hoped
to meet Sir Arthur Hairline also,
but he was confined to his home
with another attack of the gout,
which has plagued him of late.

This evening to watch the practice of the troup who are preparing an opera. They are fine singers
but methought they must have
been carousing too much of late
for many sang flat and did not
know their right hand from their
left which caused much merriment,
albeit Maestro Strawyer did tear
his hair and blow much upon a
little whistle.

Fef. 10—My new petticoat sent
home today and my husband much
put out. He says it does not become me, but I do think it looks
very well and in truth it is the cost
he does not like. It is dear but
not so much as his red velvet coat
with the gold buttons and I shall
keep it.

Feb. 13 — Have heard /.at the
female scholars are tired of sitting
at home alone while the men do
carouse in the taverns and have
resolved that this week they will
compel any man they choose to
accompany them to the entertainments. This is a fine idea and I
shall invite my dancing master to
the ball which is held in honor of
the founder, the Sallie Haw Haw
Ball. My husband will be from
on my lord’s business, which is
convenient as he is an indifferent
dancer. Have resolved to attend
the Whist Party in Marmalade
Hovel, since I hear there is to be a
prize. I will take with me Mr.
Duck Bills who does play at Whist
all day long in the Assembly
Rooms and will assuredly win the
prize, for I have played several
times myself,

ee

Sam Peeps nee

to me from the locked strong-box
in the corner and recognized the

voice of my old friend, “At this the

damsels all did rush after me and
fled. In the words of tité-1™
jmortal Less Ozone “O Serpongy, a)

4

 

4 cl
kre

a S
Wut keny ie Pe a ek
y i ; , oe tet 5 i x 4
ee ek Ee Are ae
nat Saw ce

tae eye ’

SADIE
HAWKINS
DANCE
FRIDAY
NIGHT

A Sad Case of Misogomy

I saw her walking down the street
A graceful, vacillating treat

A princess from a fairy book

A maiden worth a second look,
Beauty enough to satisfy

Petty, Varga, Powers and I
(Though you'll admit and I'll agree
I’m not in the class of the other three)

Well, naturally I speeded up
To drown myself in beauties cup

But as I quickly drew abeam

I saw things change—perhaps the steam
Upon my glasses marred my view

I took them off and dropped them too—
For still ’twas there and undenied

My faithful glasses had not lied,

Alas! What did I see? What horrid thing?
Twas not a pin or diamond ring!

But lipstick, rouge, mascara, cream,

Enough to make a nightmare scream.

Two blobs of red a smear of pink,

And blondish hair (her own I think

Though colored to peroxide hue)

And naked eye brows, colored too.

Tummy tucked beneath a girdle

Still resembling back of turtle

(A common shape I will admit

In fact the shape we’ve given it)

And those twin bluffs—my shattered nerves!
An artificial set of curves,

Packed with guiles and more deceit

Than 5A shoes on 6E feet.

I speeded up and right on by

As though I’d heard a witches cry

And so once more my search began

In looking for the girl who can
Withstand the ravages of rain
Blustery weather and some champagne
(Perhaps a few advances too!)

And still look like the girl I knew.

—From the Toronto V arsity.

P.S. TO VARSITY VIEWPOINT

Now the week is here at last,

When all the boys are hinding fast,
Afraid methinks that such a dame,

Will make them play the Hawkins’ game.
Fortis now our week to take our pick,
And we’ll decide just who is slick.

Surely there’ll be no bleached tresses,
But we will find some equal messes,
Those broad shoulders o’er which he gloats,
Come off when e’re he removes his coats.
These creatures who dare to call us vain,
We look at them with much distain.

But men of Dal remember this—

That poet disecribes a Toronto Miss,
Accept our challenge, lay down your arms,
You’ll soon succumb to Co-ed charms,

We really love you one and all,

So be prepared for our little call.

But don’t forget, we gals aren’t meek,

For this, my lad, is Co-ed Week! !

THE
~ DALHOUSIE GALSETTE

Published once a year by the Co-Eds.
probably not those of the Council.

Opinion expressed are

STAFF
MART. GOLBURGS (iadic. fo2 ches ¥. Shs dais ve enene Editor in Chief
BY CALP |. Peis sbi bs tats sigtd « Geitahy iuhc's Wnt vintetne Assistant Editor
PERV WN PACU Ber, ciate ven ola tw Tete ely dik pact Mbeca th ..Marnie Stevenosn

June Baker, Barb McGeoh, Judy McKeen >

Cartoonist eas hee ality eek Shwld s saya whe 0s Sally Newman

 
   
     
   
   
   
   
 
  
      
 
     
     
       
 
      
     
       
    
      
   

 

 

 
 
  
  
      

a id

 

Eat

re,
=

wt wr
oo

> eer

Ts

wu

a ee

ah

eS v

 

ae

 

PROS AND CONS

By GAY ESDALE

Under bi eagable and inspiring leadership of Betty Evans our

 

 

new Physical Education Directress, girls sports have had a most event- ful and successful year. The girls on the Varsity Basketball team are

ee now Nova Scotia champions" and even bigger laurels are in the offing.

Reports are that the two games agairist Acadia which resulted in a

total point win 39-25 for Dalhousie were, from a spectators viewpoint,
the best played girls’ games in many years.

Both were hard fought

games with all members of the team turning in their best efforts to

date, Certainly outstanding were

forwards Marilyn MacIntyre and

Betty Cousins, and Jean MacLeod and Betty Petrie on the guard line.
The experience gained in the City League competition was a big
factor in the double victory over Acadia.

The Intermediate team is now in) &——

strict training for their Mount Allison games in Sackville this week
end. They too have been playing
good basketball in the City League
and hopes of gaining a second Inn
tercollegiate crown are high.

We are very fortunate this year
in obtaining the services of Chief
Petty Officer Trepanier, P.T. Instructor at Stadacona, as the girls’
swimming .coach. A meet is planned for Acadia on March 38rd, with
the Intercollegiate meet at U.N.B.
on March 9th. Outstanding among
those turning out for Dal’s Maritime title holding team are Joanne
Beaubien, and Caroline Weld,
breast stroke; Marilyn MacIntyre,
Natashia Coffin, Caroline Logan
and Jean Titus, free style.

The team has received excellent
coaching and anyone even slightly
interested in swimming may benefit from the swimming periods 4.30
p.m., Tuesday and Thursday at
Stad.

Competition has been keen
among the badminton enthusiasts
and last week during the Dal Open
Badminton tournament some really
fine performances were turned in.
In the ladies’ singles, veteran

Joanne Beaubien succeeded in de
The Right Smoke
at the Right Price
for Young Men

 

 

Notices

The final game of the Halifax
“A” Girls Basketball League will
be played at the Y.W.C.A. on
Thursday evening at 7.00 P.M.,
bringing together the Tartans, and
the Dal “A” squad, Nova Scotia
Intercollegiate champions. If the
girls win this game they will be
the City League champs.

The boxing exhibitions scheduled
for Monday night have been postponed until Monday, Feb. 27, when
the University championship bouts
will take place in the Gymnasium,

ne re ay =
"an NALS ae = ;
pr ARO he

* “

DALHOUSIE | GAZETTE

ok *

Dal Takes Intercollegiate Hoop Game
Downing Acadia in I otal Point Series

Paced by the high-flying first line of Betty Cousins-Marilyn MacIntyre and Gay Esdale, the girls Varsity Basketball team copped the

Nova Scotia Intercollegiate
Acadia 21-15

Basketball
3asketball championships seem destined to make ther

title on Saturday, downing

home at Dal this season, as this is the second one to arrive in the past

week,

It was a hard fought battle all the way, and the Cousins-MacIntyreEsdale line starred from start to finish, working with almost clock-like
precision. 19 of the 21 points were put in by this line.

Using their six-man defence to perfection

baffled.

 

Pictured above are the new Nova Scotia Intercollegiate Basketball champions.
in a hard fought total point series with Acadia.

from left to right, front row:
“Foo” Grant. Second row,
Joan Baxter,

manager;

 

feating Kathy Gubbins in two hard
fought sets. Estelle Martin and
Joanne upset Jean Baker and Heather MacKinnon in the ladies doubles. Ned Banks and Joanne defeated Connie Cyr and Noel Hamilton for the mixed doubles. Connie
did especially well seeing as this
was only her second time on a badminton court.” We might mention
that Joanne was the only triple
champion in the meet. The experience gained in such a tournament
will prove a great help when the
team competes for the Intercollegiate honours.

Hockey under coach Betty Evans,
has been going great guns. The
line-up to date is as follows—Ann
Tompkins, Joan McCurdy, Ruth
Bulmer, Joyce Carney, are playing
forwards. Connie Cyr, Jan Robertson, Marion McCurdy and Carol
Wool play defence. A game is
scheduled against Acadia March
lst. It seems the girls have challenged the boys’ Varsity team, but
so far have received no reply —
could it be they’re afraid of these
fast skating, smooth-playing stars!

In closing, a word of thanks to
all team managers for their tireless efforts and loyal BREDORES 1 F

Four Parties .. .

(Continued from page one)

asserted that the Government had |
stolen from them the Unemployment Insurance and Baby Bonuses
schemes.

Mssrs. Mathews and Baccardax
contended that the government

was not, and should not presume |

to be, either omnipotent or infallible. As Guns Grans said — they
made a drastic mistake in removing the local from Inverness to
Weymouth.

There was great doubt as to Foo
Grant’s nationality, when he delivered a most eloquent but unintelligent message from his constituents—in Ukrainian. The Opposition had the impression that Mr.

Grant’s constituency was just out- |

side Moscow.

The final poiuts were 39-25 for
Gerry Grant, Betty Merrick, Betty Petrie, (capt.)
Connie Cyr,
and Coach Betty Evans.

Lucy Calp, Jean MacLeod, Gay E sdale,

Dal. The players are
3etty Cousins, and Marg

Tanner, Henderson Staras Team
Beats All-Stars in Slow Contest

A lacklustre Halifax All-Star
| Team went down to defeat 57-32 at
the hands of the highly polished
and versatile Dal Varsity last Saturday night. The All-Star Team

each of the three other Intermediate teams in the city, and
coached by Frank Baldwin.
The Dal team controlled the play
throughout the game, taking an
early lead and holding it until the
final buzzer. ‘Both teams _ substituted freely, the Tigers using in
dividual substitutions and the All-|

was |

 

|

livened up a bit with both teams
giving it that old college try. This
half was high-lighted with the debut of “Vitamin” Vitalone into
Halifax basketball, The coach
proved to be quite the player, being particularly fast on offense.
Scott Henderson puf on a nice exhibition of long set shot shooting
which really paid off (he was one
of the high men for the evening).
Charlie Connolly played his usual
standout game sharing the top
spot with Henderson, each having
12 points. Buck Tanner and Andy

Stars employing the two platoon) MacKay turned in sound defensive

system. Dunlop and

Accocella | games under

the boards and both

were the big men for the All-Stars} played a major part in the team’s

during the first half, while Hen
derson and Connolly led the Tiger |

at halfDal
The score
in

scoring parade.

time was 26-20 favor of
housie.

During the second half the game

 

 

 
  
      

FORUM

Feb. 22nd — 28th

Evenings 8 p.m.
Saturday Matinee 2 p.m.

ICE CYCLES
OF 1950

  

was composed of three men from

 

 

 

Get Your Tickets
Now.at Zellers
1.00; 1.50, 2.00, 2.50

 

 

 

victory.

 

Capitol Music Co.

RADIOS, RECORDS, APPLIANCES, MUSICAL INSTRU
MENTS. JEWELLERY
Phone 3-6425
21 Blowers Street

Complete Line of

Easy Terms

The won their title

Marilyn MacIntyre,

 

 

 

'own direction.

jthey kept Acadia well

The Axettes really fought back-and victory wasn’t easily won.

“2 Their long passes were effective

as the Dal forwards concentrated
more on their defensive work than
on getting the ball back in their
own hands onee they had lost it.
Acadia was quick on the intercepting, but the Black and Gold got up
there and patted the ball in their
On passes Acadia
the backboards well, and
one department that the
home team fell down on.

played
here was

The Dal guards put up a strong
fight from the opening whistle
Betty Petrie, main stay of the

guards, was all over the floor, intercepting and stopping the Axettes in every direction. This line
of Lucy Calp- Betty Petrie - Jean
MacLeod put up a firm defensive
battle. Their zone defense
most effective.

was

Joan- Baxter of the second string
put a Sensational touch to the
game by tossing in a basket the
minute she was put on the floor.
“Cuz” also added a bit of a sensation by opening up each of the middle stanzas with a basket in the
opening minute. Acadia opened up
the scoring for the game, but ‘Cuz’
wasn’t far behind on the equalizer.

For Acadia, Mary MacKay was
high point getter for the gals from
Apple-knocker Land and gave Dal

their biggest worry. Norma
Pickle, Janet MeGray and Pat
Crocker also turned in good games
for the visitors.

The Varsity team acquired the
Provincial title by virtue of their
two wins over Kings and then the
two victories over Acadia. They
will now go on to meet the winner

|of the Mount A - U.N.B. series, in

hopes of capturing the Maritime
Intercollegiate title.

Referees forthe game were Freda
Wales and Marg Eustace.

 

a ee = ee

CASINO

NOW PLAYING

“WVirs. Mike”

with

Dick POWELL and
Evelyn KEYES

NEXT ATTRACTION

‘ADAM and EVELYN’

with
STEWART GRANGER
JEAN SIMMONS

 

OXFORD THEATRE

- TUES.- WED.
“TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND”

Joan GREENWOOD and Basil RODFORD

BALLET RECITAL
by Gotshalks and Apine

- FRI.

AFRICA SCREAMS
with ABBOT and COSTELLO
also

BLOOD AND SAND
with Tyrone POWER and Rita HAYWORTH

MON,

ON STAGE

THURS.

   

- SAT.

s Trim All-Star eer 57 - -" in i ego ae :

Poa GIRLS TAKE PROVINCIAL TITLE

 
