 

 

 

 

Law Texts s Taxed

Comic Books Not

TORONTO—(CUP)—Big markups in American texts imported
into Canada can be understood

_-more easily than the other factors

that increasé texts costs in Canada,
it was reported in the Trinity College Boardroom of the U of T
Committee of NFCUS.

The NFCUS Committee has set
up a sub-committee to study the
costs of texts for the national
organization: A report of the subcommittee’s work has been sent to
national NFCUS President, Ritchie
Love by Toronto Committee President Tom Symons.

Symons has reported that investigations are going ahead about
the “apparent inconsistency in the
Canadian Government’s excise and
customs on books.” The sub-committee has learned that comics are
tax-free while law texts are not.

The sub-committee would like to
know why U.S. publishers pay for
deliveries to retailers in their own
country while they will only give
Canadian retailers F.O.B. terms.

Symons’ report also refers to
the “inexplicable classification of
French as a ‘foreign’ language for
the purpose of customs.” As foreign language books, French books
imported into Canada escape taxes
applied to English-language texts
brought into this country.

The sub-committee would like to
know why many British book
agencies absorb the ten percent
“imperial preference” which would
otherwise relieve Canadian buyers
of British books of costs nonCommonwealth nations must pay.

Another sub-committee has presented a formal interim report to
the national NFCUS organizations,
dealing with used book stores and
co-operative book stores on Canadian campi. This report is to be
sent to other universities represented on NFCUS and is based on
answers received from nine book
stores and co-operative book stores
on their campi.

Pigot Pleads
For Players

D’ya wanna know somethin’ guys
and gals? Well now, let me tell
you, where you can riley have the
time of your life, that’s what I
said, the time of your life. Mr.
Pigot, who is directing the Glee
Club production of “Othello” has
said that he Riley needs people for
walk-on parts, you all know what
I mean, you put your head around
the corner and soy somethin’ like
“Dinner is served’. Now, this is
a grand chance for all you guys
and gals who don’t want too big a
part in the play.

Now, Ill tell ya what to do. You
just walk over to that there Gymnasium one evening and say to Mr.
Pigot: “Well, Les, I read that you
were looking for people for small
parts for “Othello”, I guess I can
spare the time. You just put me
where you think I’ll do.” And you
can bet that Les will do just that,

(With apologies to Norm. Riley,
I mean Norm.)

 

—The Epitome

   
  

HALIFAX, N,

 

Work started recently
Administration Building at Studley.
and the crossbeams so far completed. This building will add a new

on

landmark to the face of the Dalhousie Campus.

expected to be completed by 1951.

the superstructure of the new Arts

Above are shown the two uprights

Most of the work is

 

Conference Called to Urge Joining
IUS Denounced by Communist Group

|
Pirates’ Presented ..

In Early February

Gilbert and _ Sullivan’s light
opera, “The Pirates of Penzance”,
will be presented by The Dalhousie
Glee and Dramatic Society, in the
Dal Gym during the latter part of
February, on the evenings of the
23rd, 24th, and 25th, Thursday eve
ning being reserved for Dal students.
The director is Prof. Harold

Hamer who has previously produced twelve Gilbert and Sullivan
operas. Cast of the principal characters is as follows: “Major-General
Stanley”—Dick Miller; “The Pirate King”’—Gordon Coll; “Samuel”

            

(his Stanley Pearson; “Frederick” (the Pirate Apprentice)—Brian Edwards; “Ser
geant of Police’—Roy de Young;
“Mabel”—Ishbel Campbell; “Edith”
—Audrey (Powell; ‘Kate’’—Anne
Thaxton; “Ruth” (Pirate Maid of
all work)—Diane Parker.

Rehearsals for the chorus are
held in the lower gym on Thurs
days at 7.30 p.m. More tenors and
basses are needed to balance the
Comparatively large ladies’ charus,
and men who can sing (or are willing to try).are urged to turn out
for next Thursday’s pratice. “The
Pirates” is one of the most popular
of all the Gilbert and Sullivan
operas, and those taking part are
assured, by Prof. Hamer, of an enjoyable and profitable time.
Orchestra practices are held on
Monday evenings at 7.30, in the
Engineering Common Room.

 

L.S.S. NOTICE
Friday deadline for ISS Bursary
applications to Sterling Area students. Winners to be announced in

Tuesday’s Gazette.

 

LONDON—(Special to Varsity)
Representatives of seventeen
democratic students’ unions met in
London, England, over the Christmas holidays to discuss the International Union of Students. All of
the seventeen unions represented
have either not joined the IUS or
have recently affiliated with that
group.

The meeting, called by the British National Union of Students to
urge western nations to join the
IUS and fight for their views
within that organization, was boyecotted and denounced by the IUS,
whose president, Josef Grohman,
attacked it in cables to most of the
delegates as “a danger to student}
unity.”

Most western nations are not at
the moment members of the IUS,
which is dominated by students
from Communist countries. The
United States walked out in 1947,
following the communist coup in
Czechoslovakia. IUS did not present at that time what the Amer-|
ican National Students Association
felt was a sincere and honest de-|
nunciation of the treatment
corded Czech students and profes- |
sors.

 

ac- |

In the last two years, many west- |
ern nations have walked out of the |
IUS, maintaining that they cannot
do any effective international work
in the organization because of its |
communist elements. The National
Federation of Canadian University
Students almost joined the IUS in|
1948, but was refused admission on |
a technicality, and subsequently decided not to affiliate at all.

The meeting, which lasted three
days, was lobbied by communists
from London University protesting |
the gathering. Police from the
London metropolitan force were
present to see that “no breaches of

(Continued on page four)

 

‘the debates

| Monday
| Room 3

: v . &
es ;. “6

HOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

S., TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1950

lathe Co eV ie Rayer camels fel ot: ape as yh die LoS ES =P avon ee Lice
? > ‘ . ;

é

Watch
for the
Date of the

Gazette
Gambol

 

No. 19

 

OUNCIL COMMITTEE TAKES OVER
PUBLICATION OF 1948-1949 PHAROS

\Delivery of Year Books to
Students to be Next Month

The Council of Students at a special emergency meeting
Friday night instructed the Year Book Committee to make a
special trip to Kentville to complete the editorial work necessary to the final printing of the 1948-1949 Pharos, which was
scheduled to appear in April, 1949. The members of this com
mittee are Al Lomas,
Carol V Wood. _

McGill Daily Has

News Restrictions

MONTREAL —(CUP) — McGill
Daily is the only Campus newspaper which has any restriction on
its news reportage, it was revealed
at a recent Canadian University
Papers conference. Although other
undergrad newspapers are subject
to a vote of censure from the student council of their university, in
no instance is there a directive as
to what news may be printed.

Under present regulations at
MeGill, the student daily may print
accounts of only those motions
passed at meetnigs. Sponsors of
motions may not be identified. In
effect, this means that all discussion of a motion is withheld from
the students. It also means that if
a motion is defeated, there is no reportage given to the mover or any
of the reasons it was defeated.

Clyde Kennedy, editor of the
McGill Daily, declared that the student body is virtually kept in the
dark about council affairs by these
rules.

 

Sodales Executive

Draws Schedule

Last night the Executive of Sodales held a meeting in the Arts
Building to draw up a schedule for
the coming term. President Al
Baccardax, Vice-President Ken Colwell, Secretary Al Harris and
Delta Gamma representative Eva

| Powell were present.

The first inter-fac debate will be
held January 13th, when Arts and
Science meet Law on the question
of military training. The other
debates in the first round will be
held on January 18th, 20th, 25th,
27th and 21st.

The intercollegiate tryouts for
against U.N.B., Pine
Hill and St. Dunstan’s will be held
evening at 7.30 p.m. in
of the Arts Building. All
inter-fac debaters are eligible.

 

Arts and Science to
Present Dance Friday

On Friday night, January 13, the

Arts and Science Society are spon|soring, what promises to be one of

the biggest Gym dances of the
year (Gazette Gambol excepted).

Tickets for the dance are available from members of the executive of the Society, Al O’Brien,
Sherman Zwicker and Sheila Me
Laren. The price is a dollar and
a quarter for those not holding
Arts and Science membership

cards. Paid members of the Society
may obtain tickets for one dollar.

ee os aS ee,

Dave Jamieson, Franny Doane and

——® The meeting of the Council was

Council President Art
who stated that he had

called by
Moreira,

 

LATE FLASH!!!

The Council Committee in charge
of completing the editorial work on
the Year Book has reported in a
special telephone call from Kentville that all the work is now complete and that the last few pages
will go to press immediately.

SS

taken this action
Caldwell, Editor of Pharos, had
challenged the authority of the
President and Vice-President of the
Council to Give him orders, to dismiss him and to instruct the print
er as to the completion of the
book.

Mr. Moreira turned over the
chair to Andy MacKay in order to
be able to speak more freely on
the matter. He said that at the
Student Forum Mr. Caldwell had
stated that all the material for the
Year Book was in the hands of the
printers with the exception of action shots of the Canadian Football Team, and that copies of the

book would be available for the
Faculties of Law and Medicine before Christmas. He said that he
had then written to the printer in
order to obtain confirmation of this
and that he had learned that the
printer did not have all this
material.

He said that,he and Al Lomas
had decided to make a trip to Kentville and that they had completed
the Year Book in the best manner
they could. He claimed that when
Mr, Caldwell had heard of this he
had directed the printer to cease
work on the book,

Mr. Caldwell denied that he had
given the printer orders to stop
printing but that the printer had
decided upon this action on his own
initiative when he heard of the
difference of opinion between the
Editor and the Student Council. He
said that he had compléted work
on the parts of the book that Moreira and Lomas had finished off in
a rough manner and that he had
the dummy proofs there with him
and was willing to go to Kentville
the next day if the Council did not
disapprove.

After a lengthy and heated de
(Continued on page four)

because Ron

 

NOTICE

The Council of Students has announced that it will receive applications for the positions of Editor
and Business Manager of the 194950 [Pharos up to twelve midnight
January 14th, 1950. All applications
should be addressed to Murray
Rankin, 9814 Edward Street.

4

 
  
     

ce cot i the aendeaie® | Council of Dalhousie

. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the

ouncil. For enn write: Business Manager,
Ze tte, Balifex,

  

. Editor-in-Chief

 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
 
    
  
   
   
  
 
    
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
   
   
  
    
   
 
 
  
  
 

ea tebe e eee eee eens ssf ee eeee eee Office Manager
C.U.P. Editor

Slgiaigt ie eae feraele a ol oN Os 5 News Editors
| , ..Feature Editor

TS nid iss .. Sports Editors

eporters........ ae, Medjuck, Jack ae Joe Levison
Writers ......... .....+++.Barbara MeGeogh, Eliphal Nichols
s—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
st enrtee Foisys Jim eataney:

1 eden sey che ..Dan Soberman
- Dave ‘Nicholson, Stu Wallace, Heatries MacDonald

es*#eeeevoeeeenee

i as j aR hd el oa a! be . Lucy Calp
Re perv PRE Gloria Probe, Rona Yess
TUESDAY, JANUARY 10, 1950 No. 19

PHAROS FOR ‘51

Although this paper is not the local racing form, we are
see willing to give odds that the Year Book for 1950 will not appear
oe 1951, and there will be a Eppetition. of last year’s naeen.

AN INTERNATIONAL STUDENT
PRESS AGENCY

te atten, having established U/PRESS at the LS.S. Summer
omnes in Germany, August 1948, a group of American and

_ Canadian students, among whom were more than 60 student
Sein © journalist, discussed the feasability of a student press agency
& me for exchange of news within the university world on an interna
_ tional level. This historic meeting was held at sea aboard the
TSS, VOLENDAM. The assembly agreed on the principles of
the new agency, which were prepared in Germany by a ninenations student convention. A group of students from the Uni_ yersity of Montreal were asked to undertake the establishment
of an American continental office.

vt a es ue

ey Fy Pict Ti by
i" “t At the Canadian University Press epitononce held in Montreal
December 28-31, this group approached the conference and offered
U/PRESS to CUP.. This offer was gratefully accepted and the
| Varsity (U. ef T.) was appointed cantral American bureau.

The aequistion of U/PRESS by CUP has given an international flavor to Canadian collége papers. A closer affiliation of
_ Européan and American students and a broader exchange of ideas
is now anticipated.

This new system will be operated in the same manner as
British United Press and other international news agencies. Its
_ benefits to the average student will immediately become apparent
me - when the wider outlook derived by the Canadian student from the
-—-_—introduetion of CUP, which covered only Canada, is considered.
pret This new system will bring news of significance to the attention
of Canadian students which they otherwise would never hear
about and help them in forming opinions about the rather con~ fusing state of affairs in the world today.

LITTLE USED HEADS

- In the plant of the Gazetie’s printer in downtown Halifax,
on one of their storage benches, lies the Dalhousie Gazette’s least
used head. It is the head which should appear in every issue
under these editorials, as an integral part of the editorial page of
es the paper, along with the material under it. Or, at least, so the

f ae baa eee of newspapers would lead us to believe.
a, i ty For decades, the modern newspaper, whether large or small,
fer has. been held up as the voice of the people, their liberator, their
a _ guide in time of need, and their most potent means of expression.
But, like the Gazette’s least used head, these purposes of newsi ‘papers: are becoming extinguished or, at least, unrecognizable as
4 the « dusts of self-interest and aety interests slowly settle on

—

beets any portion of the blame for this
the Gazette, let us hasten to pay that the

 

   
  

.. Advertising Manager |

  
   
   
 
   
   

  

January 7, 1950. Up _ betimes
and to the office of the Spectator,
Early edition, where I found all in
a State of great confusion. It doth
seen that Red Lightert, the Editor,
and Joe Lightdaughter, the Managing Editor, have felt that they
could not continue to work on the
paper and have therefore handed
in their resignations, to the great
consternation of Lightert’s  coeditor, Loose Blockhead.

In great need of help, Blockhead
made certain changes in the personnel of the staff to which certain
of them .took exception and resigned, and Blockhead had to take them
quietly by the hand and explain
the great emergency to them individually in order to persuade
them to return to their cubicles,
and agreed in addition not to use
the whip on them or make them
work on the Features page, which
they consider a fate worse than
death. I did consider the whole
thing very silly and felt that all
had acted in a disgracefully childish manner,

Afterwards I strolled about Studlee, where I met Vaintoe who was
hurrying home from a lecture, for,
he says, they give him a great appitite. I did discuss the recent
election of Duke Urpert as representative of the County of Poorman. He did say that All Bacchussacks had done much better than
anyone had anticipated and that
many, including him, who had laid
small wagers on the outcome were
astounded and improverished by
the large number of votes Bacchussacks received.

Monday, January 9, 1950. After
breakfast I set to work at my desk,
opening the large accumulation of
mail which divers persons had sent
to me during the festive season.
I did receive one from a _ person
named Skid Roe, who did wish me
a happy Yuletide. I have heard
much of this fellow and the scurvy
knaves he associates with, such as
Wentron, Noneward, Hairless, MacDonnie, and others. I fell to thinking about past escapades of this |
group and of their notorious’ party
last Fall after which some of them
did repair to Marmalade Hovel at
an unreasonsable hour of the morning and ask for some damsels to
accompany them to a ball: They
were ejected as they deserved and
proceeded to the ball, unacecompanied.

Did hear that Exclamation Genuflect has announced his intention to
take a wife and did rush out to see
if this were true. I did meet him
on the steps of the Wood Building
and did shake him by the hand,
warning him to proceed with caution as these things do not always
turn out well, witness mine own
case.

Tuesday, January 10, 1950. Up
betimes and to the College-on-theHill where I went to the former
Gentlemen’s Assembly Room, now
swarming with cackling females,
gloating in their slight victory over
the superior sex. I met here many
persons I had not seen for some
time. I saw Gael Lessdaughter,
surrounded by a bevy of admiring
damsels. I did also see Hack Losecint talking to Stroke Whippy and
Jewel Badlose, who listened attentively to all he said and laughed
at all his wittycisms, no matter
how dull.

I did also see many persons playing at games of chance and skill
with little bits of square paper
covered with printing. I noticed
Gabby Rush standing behind one of
the participants and commenting
on every play he made. I did go
up to him and ask him what game
they were playing and he replied
that he was not sure but thought
it was called Span. He did tell me

| that the society of actors and acroeur bate of _the Glum Club wanted

ree) the eae

| Meet Your Friends at
THE

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

 

ae

CANADA’S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

 

They’re Popular
Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Be sure the famous Birks
Blue Box encloses your

choice.

Henry Birks &

Sons Limited

Registered Jéwellak: A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

 

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

Phinneys Limited

456 Barrington St.

Where you will find a
complete Music Service
and the finest
Sports Equipment

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical

and Metallurgical Engineering
6

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

 

 

DALHOUSIE

UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of Science

Diplomas in:

Education
Engineering
Engineering Physics
Food Technology

Hospital Pharmacy
Mining Geology
Musie

Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

C.M.

THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.
The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Public
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 available to
students applying for admission from High Schools or Junior
Colleges of the Maritime Provinces, and awarded on the basis

of educational attainments.

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full information as to fees.
courses, residence facilities, and dates of registration.

 

 

Political Developments Cause of IUS
Failure In Norwegian Universities

The NorCouncil

OLSO UNI-PRESS).
wegian Report on the

meeting of the International Union |

of Students, held in Paris, Sept.,
1948, has now been issued. The
report states that the failure of
the IUS in Norway may be traced
back to the political developments
of the last few years, towards
which the IUS has adopted an attude of consistent support of the
Communist viewpoint.

Norwegian students are willing
to admit that they have wrongly
neglected to send a representative
to the IUS Secretariat in Prague,
thus making the influence of their
opinion weaker, and the IUS less
effective.

The Norwegian delegation makes
the following recommendations, to

 

 

(1) The NNUS ought not to become a member of the IUS because
it has no right to support certain
political opinions on behalf of
Norwegian students,

(2) Wherever there is no danger of becoming involved in such
political attitudes, the N N U 8
should maintain practical co- -operation with the IUS.

(3) Wherever the NNUS thinks
it cannot co-operate, clear reasons
should be given.

(4) The NNUS should send observers to the more important
meetings of the IUS, especially to
the Congress and the Council
meeting.

The Norwegian students think
that the IUS has acquired a onesided political color, despite some
tendency to compromi
bats reads i: a

 
 
 

—_—

 
 
 
  
  

   
     

   

       
   
       
     
     
     
     
    
 
       
     
     
     
     
    

i pt

 

ie MP 41d Reg yyt
' + ay’
Lg" Stal

}

 
 

   
         

 
 
  

      
    

    

ved

i \
a as Mee
— od

    

i 4
ey
if
=
aa
nat ye
i

  

  

“aT
‘ "t
aed
-: 4 ; vee
Sa y Be ee ®
Eee |
ig Py 4 . 2

fi

e Bi: On display at the Nova Scotia
_ Archives is a collection of early

_ Nova Scotia Stamps, issued and

    

  
  

- N. S. Stamps is presented by the
: Nova Scotia Government with the
"purpose of acquainting the public
and visitors to what extent this
Province has contributed to the eset ~ tablishment of postal transporta| tion before Conferedation with the
, Dominion of Canada in 1867, when
these issues were withdrawn.

_ There were four issues from

  
   

pall “oe

‘ on 1851 to 1868. In 1851 there was an
issue of 8 and 6 penny stamps and
ys a one shilling stamp issue. It was
found that without the 1 penny
stamp, a considerable amount of
inconvenience was being caused, so
> in 1858, a one penny issue was
brought into use.
_ These were withdrawn in 1860
and cent issues were issued in their
ni Pisce, In 1860 there was a one,
yee, eight and a half, ten and
twelve and a half cent issues. This
7” was followed in 1863 with a two
ae cent issue. When Nova Scotia joine € ‘ed Confederation in 1867, these
_ were withdrawn and replaced by
_ Dominion Government stamps.

   
  
    
   
  
 

   
 

EAA
Lar

|
ae Law Notes
b By ALF HARRIS
in September 15 saw the opening of

- Ye Olde Lawe School and the beginning of another Dalhousie year.
The young legal minds came to the
old red building and after greeting
one another, met the new members
of the staff. To the regular staff
of Dean V. C. MacDonald and

_ Professor T. J. Feeney were added
the names of Professors W. E.

- Lederman, J. H. Hendry, and H. G.
Batt.

Some changes in the curriculum

; have been made, and despite cries
from the present third year that

~ Ye Olde Lawe Schoole is getting

p= second year students will survive
the blow of having to choose between “Insurance” and “Bills and
Notes.” ~

Our school was very fortunate
last-term in playing host to the
Canadian member of the International Court, Mr. Justice J. E.
Read. Mr. Read gave a series of
talks on International Law. The
talks were well received and many
students attended.

 

: soft, it seems highly probable that.

1954 - They Don’t Notice The Steps Any More

of Nova Scotia

Stamps on Display at Archives

It is interesting to note, that a

great deal of work went into the},

bringing about of these stamp issues in ‘the first place. Finally,
after a great deal of correspondence with the Imperial Government
in Great Britain the Post Office
Act of 1850 was brought about.
One section of the Act stated:

“7. The repayment of Provincial
postage shall be optional to the
sender.”

In 1851 these stamps were issued.
The Postmaster-General made a
public announcement in the paper,
The Halifax Chronicle, stating that
before any stamps were used, they
should be carefully examined so as
to make sure that they would adhere to the envelope because if
they did not, the receiver of the
letter would be obligated to pay
the postage required. Thus, on the
lst of September, 1851, there was
issued the first Nova Scotia stamps.

A great deal had still to be
brought to light in regard to the
stamps of Nova Scotia,—interesting features that on discovery
quickly engaged the attention of
What may be called the philatelic
world.

The Dalhousie Law Society, under President Slim Chisholm, VicePresident Bill Grant and Treasurer
Jess Wentzell, have carried on our
great society, and already have
held three meetings this year.

It has done its usual work in
organizing the printing of notes,
choosing dance committees and
drawing up legal student activities
for the year. The meetings provide an outlet for the excess energy
and vocabulary of the members.

The Law Ball, an annual affair,
was held in the Ball Room of the
Nova Scotian Hotel. The Ball was
both financially and socially successful, and credit goes to the Ball
Committee comprised of Bill Pearson, Stu Wallace and Al Trites.

Two third year students made
coast to coast headlines when they
ran against each other for the
Richmond County seat in the Nova
Scotia Legislature.

Mr. Earl Urquhart, the Liberal
Candidate won over his classmate
and Conservative opponent, Mr. Al
Baceardax. Congratulations to Earl
and Best Wishes.

One of the best sports events I
have ever witnessed was held last

Se

OXFORD THEATRE

REE

SPECIAL!
Starting Jan. 16th

‘One of the pure miracles of 50 years of motion pictures, a

film of great artistic beauty

“Shoe

and profound humanity.

Shine”

 

ae Italian-made with complete English titles.

f

 
 

      
   
  
 
 
 

Well, my friends, though many
have forgotten of your existence as
a freshman class and have accepted
you justly as Dalhousians, I have
not forgotten and so must hasten
to point out inherent dangers in
your precarious but enviable position.

The second term begins. Your
first great hurdle has for better or
for worse, become an unpleasant
memory now, and for three months
you have been a part of our venerable institution. But now the
most dangerous term of all is
upon you. During this crucial
period you make or break the eniable career that is open for all of
you.

Perhaps you think you are wise
beyond your years and know how
to conduct yourselves, that advice
from this writer must fall on unwilling ears. Well, here is the
simple truth: those of you who in
your vanity ignore my simple advice will not be here next year. So
take what is given eagerly and free
and insure your future.

As yet you are too fresh and
green to know what lies ahead.
The social whirlpool is about to
subtley strike and without a pause
for breath you will one day come
out of the maelstrom of dances,
parties, love and sports activities
with the awful realization that
Monroe Day has passed leaving
you with far too much work to do
and back themes to write.

And what have you achieved in
extra-curricular fields? How many.
and what kinds of friends have you
made? What have you learned?
If you answer negatively to these
questions it is time for an accounting. Perhaps you forgot that you
are not here to cram enough for a
50% and then to forget it; or that
this is a long-term foundation you
are supposed to be laying. And in
the blinding bliss of youthful ignorance you may feel that a moonlight walk and the kiss of love is
worth more than earning a degree
or handling some responsible student activity. Leaders of men are
molded by the perfect blending of
experience and knowledge and
these ingredients are so _ easily
within the reach of you all.

Don’t be inane. A kiss, a drunk,
are but fleeting things. Learn to
value what is of use to you, something that endures. Learn that
love betrays and leaves you with
the empty debris of wasted days,
days in which you could have built
an edifice of experience and knowledge within yourselves that would
be worth a million memories reckless levity.

It is not too late. If you at once
schedulize work and play in the
corret proportions and be consistent in your dealings with both, and
if you are wise enough to think
of this advice and follow it, then
in September I will not be able to

laugh, as you three-month old Dal-|

housians, perhaps, are laughing
now,

Because you make up our College’s future I beg you for your
sincerity. The reason for your
faith should be that I know too
well the bitterness of wasted days
and hopes that were shattered due
to the infidelity of infirm emotions.

A.J.

November when the Law Rugby
Team defeated the Engineers for
the Interfac Rugby Trophy. Only
the sportsmanship, grit, and perseverance of our boys, as they fought
through ice, rain, and mud brought
victory. The winning goal was
effected by Jim Palmer after the
two teams had fought an hour and
forty minutes overtime.

Sam Peeps-
various persons to appear in their
masque and not to speak any lines
but merely to run about the stage
in a mob and say “Ahh”: or “Oh”
at appropriate intervals. I have
always desired to be an actor and
immediately resolved to apply for
such a position, for one must start
at the bottom in such things. I do
think that I shall ask to play the
part of a Gentleman for I feel that

} | 1 can do it nicely, if I do not have
to speak,

Address to Frosh

|
|

|

 

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

4

 
  

Dalhousie has the unique privilege of having one of its toiling
undergrads representing his constituency in the Provincial House. It
has been said that this country is run by a roomful of men who disagree—well, winning candidate Earl Urquhart should fit in quite well,
for during his term as law representative on the Students’ Council,
Urquhart was no man to follow the crowd when his opinions differed.
It was he who led the fight to preserve the Gazette’s “Freedom of Expression” when some timid souls became alarmed at this paper’s somewhat frank, but honest views.

* * * *

' The election was ably-contested by Al Baccardax, who sits, in
third year law, within arms-length of the new member (no blows have
been reported), The losing candidate drew an unprecedented number of
votes in this somewhat silent election. Both students have been active
in their respective campus political clubs and this may be a sign that
our political fathers are beginning to consider youth no bar for entry
into the legislative assembly. In wartime, there is no limit to the responsibility that may be thrust on a young man, but, after the period
of crisis, such responsibility isn’t considered safe.

* * * *

We have often heard it commented by some unthinking malcontent
that it is impossible for an honest man to remain above corruption
when embroiled on the political field. Such an idea is patently ridiculous, for, although there may be some dishonesty in all governments,
moral men must prevail or our democratic system will be overthrown,
Each corrupt act is a blow to the liberty of the electorate, and a blow
even against the freedom of the one committing the act. When “Every
man has his price’ comes true, we can prepare ourselves for a
despotism.

* * % *

Looking around the Canadian scene, we see some disturbing occurrences. Here, in Halifax, we witnessed the snowblower controversy
which brought the administration of this city under a vile suspicion. In
Cape Breton, recently, there was grave doubt cast upon the validity of
a civie election. It is said that there was a heavy grave yard vote, or
as one wag put it, “The candidate was elected by the best people in
Cape Breton”. In Ontario, now, when travelling over the Queen Elizabeth Highway, the work of each contractor is visible in the deterioration of the sections, and thereby, we see his former standing with those
letting the road contracts.

* * * *

In Quebec Province, which this writer currently calls home, corruption is most daring and most blatant. There is a group, numbering
about two thousand smug souls, called the ‘Society of Cheap Chisellers’
who accept patronage in the form of a low license number, the owner
of which, the highways department will refuse to disclose. This means
that these good citizens are free from parking and speeding fines and
the responsibility for some accidents The Quebec City Police Department has found that the only solution is to drag the vehicle away until
the fine is paid.

* * * *

Though there are numerous worthy individuals in the eountry who
are unselfish with their time, men of high calibre ability seem reluctant
to enter public affairs and safeguard their heritage. It happens right
here in this university. How many times have we seen meetings where
nomination after nomination has been declined through no apparent
reason? It is carried on into public life where citizens with administrative ability decline to caryy out their responsibility and leave the
field open to inferiors. If the men will not do it, why not turn it over
to the women ?

* * ES os

If men who cannot withstand the seductions of power are to predominate in the political life of our country, we would like to quote
the advice of Carl Schurz, an American statesman, whose name remained unbesmirched through the most corrupt era of American
politics—“We must not hesitate to denounce every member of our own
party who prostitutes his trust and power ‘by dishonest and corrupt
transactions, as a contemptible villian. And not only that, we must
consider and treat him as a traitor to his party. What we ean and
must do, is to make all dishonest and corrupt practices high treason
and to take every such traitor and pitch him overboard, and condenin
him to political: death without regard to person or station, and without
benefit of clergy”. Our liberty and honour and prestige cannot be preServed unless we raise the standard of public morals,

 

     
   
   
      
 
 

- COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

9’, Prince St. 
Corsages —

  

 

NURSERIES Limited...

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

Dial 3-8539

 

All Dalhousians Can
Eat Cheaply
AT

Evangeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.
Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00

CASINO

Now Playing
Cagney’s red hot in

“WHITE HEAT”
VIRGINIA MAYO

Foutain Service e

OPEN DAILY

Coming Frid
8 a.m. - 12 Midnight ming Friday

 

“THE GAL WHO |
TOOK THE WEST”

with
YVONNE DE CARLO

and ;
SCOTT BRADY

Watch for the
Gazette Gambol

en Rg A I A CR 5m pena ty te pet em ent itn Ro ee petra

 

   
 
  
    
 
 
    
   

eae

  

 
Tigers Will be at “at Full Strength for’
Game Against American Air Base

The feature attraction of the week in basketball circles will take
place at the Dal Gym on Saturday night, Jan. 14, at 8.15 P.M., when :
the high-flying Dal Varsity take on the renowned Harmon Field
(USAF) aggregation. The American boys will be flown to Halifax on
Saturday morning, and will have a pre-game workout in the Gym at
noon,

The Harmon squad comes here with an enviable record. In a recent
jaunt to P.E.I., they trimmed the Summerside outfit by a 60-31 score,
and dropped the Charlottetown town team 68-36, In two games played ~>
in Sydney over the holidays, half the team took on the Sydney “Y”
squad, winning 80-51, and the other half trimmed Pat Patterson’s Academy hoopsters, defending Maritime Inter-scholastic Champs, by a
sizeable score. In their first game of the season, the Harmon quintet
dropped a close decision to the Greenland Air Foree, rated as one of
te best pulitary squads in action. ;
——® One of the big attractions for the

fans will be a remarkable young
Interfac Hoop man known as “Bozo” Johnson.
Loop Schedule

NOTICES

SWIMMING NOTICE

There will be swimming for
the Co-eds at the poll in the
H.M.C.S, Stadacona pool every
Monday and Thursday at 4.30.
Tryouts for the Varsity Swimming team will be held. Freshettes also swim during these
hours. For further information
see Marilyn MacIntyre, swimming manager.

ed PROS a CONS

ainda and lassies, ’tis time to rally round the flag and

(2) ‘support your University (all honor to its name). Ah yes,
ents, and the latter is used loosely, we must have a look-see at
c sdvice, Th ito whith we can lend a noeine hand, voice or often as

> nite
f aabasatiraily pactliibay:
- Again Gabriel “B” Bitalone’s boys have arranged to import (duty

pe OXING NOTICE
a free of course!) some fine basketball talent—the Harmon Field jen a ope

All boxers are reminded that
the first work-out of the year
will take place this evening in
the Lower Gym at 7.00 and continuing until 10.00. There are
also work-outs being held every
morning, Monday through Friday, from 11.00 to 12.30.

) Moos ie players anid are well known to many Maribinera: aricitaiy
ey oes oar Sea-Bee boys from eyaney oa any rate its OUR squad that’s play
cine "Perhaps you don’t biew our squad—or ido you? A quick resumae
i : ght refresh some faint and semi-dormant idea you once had. Starting with the guards v we meet Capt. Andy McKay, defense ete and .
Only 5710” in he’ght, which ts short;
as basketball players go, this boy
AVERAGES 27 points per game.

In the recent game against Sydney

iesaeeky Henderson. Working from the a will be Earl Sinith (of

ef cough drop fame) the starry centre of the Bengal quintet. Flanking
him will be “Cholly” Connelly—well known as the “ole smoothie” of
ans the eourt—and that sharp shooting engineer, Jim Mahon.

“Y”, “Bozo” only netted 11 points
Meet the The schedule has recently been |; the first half, but came back in

mm

‘ah ne ‘Yes, yes!! This squad has depth—such notables as Driven’ Scotty

Mit vinion: Sharpy Arpy Robinson as well as big Bucky Tanner and
high pockets Bob Black will be ready to strive for our deah ol alma

ss mammy.

Now, how about some of that old Joe College spirit?

Ah, yes!!

Come to cheer for the Gold and Black
Before you're old and gray.

—as long as we're doing sad wit a couple more won't hurt??7?7?..
Salesman: “Sir, I have something here that will make you popular,

make you're life happier, and bring you a host of new friends.”

Student:

* *

Chemistry Prof.:
and red if the unknown is acid.”

Student: (Same one I think):

you anything with a bell”.
: a *

“How much is it a quart?”
*

“Sorry but I’m color blind.

*

“This liquid turns blue if you’re unknown is basic

Haven’t

* ah

“This furniture goes back to Louis the fourteenth”.

; “That’s nothing.
eleventh. :

He:

She:

He: “Isn’t this Wednesday ?”

K. *

Some advice:

“Do you love me, Carol?”
“But my name is Joan.”

Our whole parlor goes back to Offman’s on the

oe
* *

To get rid of fleas, one should take a bath in alcohol and a rub
down in sand. The fleas get drunk and,kill each other throwing rocks.

% *

Oh well!!

* *

Enuff of this nonsense—DON’T FORGET that basket
ball game on Saturday nite becuz these lads represent OUR University

and we are the University.

“‘B”’ League to Get Started Tonight
Cousins Stars in ‘A’ TeamVictory

The “B” league in the girls City Basketball League will get underway on Tuesday night as the Dal “B” team clashes with the Dartmouth

Basketball Club. The game will get underway at
The “A” league will be launched on

p.m, as was originally planned.

7.30, and not at 7

Thursday as our “A” team encounters the newly formed “Tartens”, at

7 p.m,

These games should both make for good watching.

' Hockey gets underway to-day at one o’clock, until two, at the

Forum.

energy, in our present weather (brrrrr).

(sticks included, as there are only 5

Certainly this is a very appropriate way, to work off excess

Bring your own equipment
left from last year).

Badminton won’t get started until about 8.30 Tuesday night as
you'll have to -wait until the basketball game is over.

There will be a general meeting
of D.G.A.C. on Tuesday and everyone is asked to come if possible.
The meeting will be at 7 p.m.

Saturday night saw the St. Pats
“A” team bow to our “A” squad by
a seore of 18-13. Betty Cousins,
with her sensational shooting, was
without doubt the star of the
game. She was really “red-hot”
and made each and every shot
count. “Cuz”, who has been a toprate hoop star since her Q.E.H.S.
days, managed to get ten of the
eighteen points. Eight of these
pts. had themselves tossed in during the first quarter.

; The St. Pat’s guards were tops
- and our “A” girls really had highgrade opposition. Fortunately
_ (from our point of view anyway),
their shooting was a wee bit erratic.

Marilyn MacIntyre again featured in the scoring parade, with six
points. Barb Quigley put in the
other. two points.

‘Don’t forget the swimming at

ie: Stad on Mondays and Thursdays at

es 4,30 (Read the Notice at the top
Of page ). Lots of enthusiastic
a Guia

mr ers, aint wae doubt turn

jout for Varsity Swimming Team

tryouts. (!) The Freshettes can
put in their extra hour of gym
work in the pool.

Be sure to come to the D.G.A.C.
meeting tonight (Tuesday), included on the agenda will be the election of an asssitant basketball
manager and an assistant badminton manager.

|. U.S. -
(Continued from page one)
the peace occurred,” but there were
no disturbances.

One of the most stirring speeches
of the conference was given by a
Finnish observer. In broken English, he stressed the dislike of Finnish students for the political activities of the IUS, but asserted
that the people of Finland, especially the students, wanted the
maximum co-operation between the
east and west.

The meeting ended with a speech
by the chairman, Stan Jenkins,
president of the BNUS. He said,
that, alone, if need be, hand in
hand, if the others would come, the
BNUS will work to reform the IUS
eon bwiay

ee

Jay

 

 

Squad

Meet Don “Bucky” Tanner,

6 ft. 4% inch veteran centre on this |
year’s Varsity-Intermediate Basket- |

ball Team. Bucky hails from that
salty port of Lunenburg and
descended from a long line of roving sea-captains.

This is Bucky’s third year at
Dalhousie and his. second year on

is

the Varsity squad, last year due to|

the “pressure of his studies” he

resigned himself to starring on the

Engineer’s Inter-Fac Hoop entry.
This year,
ing of Mr. Vitalone, Buck is showing top form, and is doing a great
job in the pivot slot and under the
back-boards.

Bucky, Bob Black, and “Red”
Finlay together tower over 19 ft.
and with all that height The Bengal Basketeers appear headed for
great things. Good Luck Plucky
“Bueky” Tanner!—(R.M.)

Intermeds. Show
Top Scoring Punch

The Dal Intermediate Basketball
Team swamped the Dal Junior
Team 66-18 last Saturday night in
the second game of an exhibition
double-header. The play was
ragged throughout the game with
the more experienced Intermediates
having little trouble with the Tiger
Cubs. The ball handling of both
teams was far below par according to Mr. Vitalone, and he is sure
that this was the Juniors worst exhibition of the season.

The idea of having this exhibition can be credited to Manager
“Bazook” Palmeter who thought
that. it would be a good idea for
the fans to have somewhere to go
on Saturday night. There was a
fair sized crowd on hand and the
Junior’s ardent supporter Joan
McCurdy was in her usual position
behind the bench. Miss McCurdy
is the sister of,one of the boys on
the team (you know).

Scotty Morrison and big Bucky

 

 

unde rthe capable coach- |

released for Interfac basketball for
the month of January. This year
all teams will participate in the
same league, rather than in two

sections, and each team will play |

each other team only once. Fight
faculties are represented.

There will be a total of

games, 7 for each squad, and the}

champion will be the faculty that
amasses the best won-lost percentage through the schedule.

ments have been made to have the
traditional Monroe Day played as
an exhibition encounter between
the champions and an All-Star
aggregation.
The following is the schedule for
the month of January.
Tuesday, Jan. 10:
6 P.M.—Arts and Science vs.
Pre-Meds
Thursday, Jan. 12:
6 P.M.—Law vs. Dents
Saturday, Jan. 14:
12.45 P.M. Commerce
Pine Hill
2.00 (P.M.—Engineers vs. Meds.
3.15 P.M.—Dents vs. Pre-Meds
Tuesday, Jan. 17:
6.00 P.M.—Engineers vs. Pine
Hill
Thursday, Jan. 19:
6.00 P.M.—Arts and Sc'ence
‘vs. Commerce
Tuesday, Jan. 24:
6.00 P.M.—Dents vs. Commerce
Thursday, Jan. 26:
6.00 P.M.—Law vs. Meds
Saturday, Jan. 26:
12.45 P.M.—Law vs. Pre-Meds
2.00 P.M.—Engineers vs, Arts
and Science
3.15 P.M.—Meds vs. Pine Hill

“VS.

Tanner (see Meet The
Squad) were the big guns ofthe
game racking 12 and 11 points respectively. Doug Brown got
points for the Juniors while Garson and Shaw got 6 points between
them. Dave McCurdy
iors while Arpy Robertson and
Jimmy Mahon played a
Game for the winners.

The refereeing of the contest
was placed in the hands of Gibby
Reid and Blue Bomber Gorham,
both of whom turned in a fine job,
making several surreptitious and
disunintelligable calls. Jerry MeCurdy was in his usual position
also, (behind the clock) and turned
in a lethargical jejune performance,

Coach Vitalone made the substitutions for both teams with meticulous care and exceedingly great
diligence. Since this was only an
exhibition game he was quiet loose
with helpful hints from the bench.

D.G.A.C. NOTICE
Chorus Rehearsal to be held
Thursday Evening at 7:00 P.M. on
Stage in Gym. Measurements for
costumes to be taken.

28 |

There |
,will be no play-offs but arrange
Hoop |

was outstanding on defense for the Jun
strong

the second to drop in an even 30,
making an evening’s total of 41
points. Coach Pat Patterson of the
| Academy said that “Bozo” had the
best shooting eye he had ever seen,
and coming from Pat, that really
means something.

| Of the rest of the team, little is
The squad will consist of
all specializing in ‘hook

| known.
12 men,
shots.

The Dal boys will be at full
strength for the game. Coach Gabriel Vitalone will start off with
Captain Andy MacKay and Seott
“Red” Findlay will be pivot man
Henderson on the guard line, and
‘for wingers Chuck Connelly and
Jimmy Mahon. Mason MacDonald,
Seott Morrison, and “Long Bob”
| Black, will team up with “Sharpy
Arpy” Robertson and high-scoring”
Gordy MacCoy as an alternate
squad. “Bucky” Tanner, Earl
Smith and “Dee” Shaw will round
out the Bengal team, which is at
present on top of the Halifax Intermediate Basketball loop. The
Tigers have four straight w'ns under their belts, and aside from a
loss to the Saint John Senior
squad, have won. all their games
by a good margin.

 

 

A Junior contest will precede the
feature event, bringing together
the Dal Juniors and the Q.E.H.
squad. In their only previous
meet'ng, the High School boys
edged the collegians by a 29-27
score in an exciting game, so the
evening should be an interesting
one from start to finish.

General admission will be 50
| cents, and students will be admitted
| for 25 cents.

On The Cuff—In a holiday game
between the towns of Amherst and
Sackville, Bob Black, playing for
mpi Amherst squad, racked up 22
4|points. Bob has seemed to lack
confidence in himself in his games
with the Tigers so far, but he has
the goods. Just rare back and flip
‘em in, Bob; we’re all with you.

 

Mason MacDonald refereed the
games that Harmon Field played
‘in Sydney recentyl, and says that
the Fliers are a smooth working
team. He adds that young “Bozo”
is worth the price of admission
alone. He specializes in long shots,
and flips them in so fast that the
scorers have trouble keeping up.

Year Book -
(Continued from page one)

bate the Council passed a motion
which instructed Mr. Caldwell to
turn over all the material he had
in his possession with directions
for the completion of the book, to
the Year Book Committee of the
Council, and that the Committee
should go to Kentville and complete work on the volume.

A motion dismissing Ron Caldwell as Editor of the 1948-1949
Pharos was then passed.

 
