       
 
     
   

     
 

   
 

  
   
   
   
 

HOUSE
DAVID AT
7 vs. ; ; SHIRREFF
| DAL GRADS | seam
ee SATURDAY

_ TUESDAY

*

TUESDAY,

THE

NOVEMBER 15, 1949

America’s Oldest College Paper

 

 
  

 

putting on an entertainment to the accompaniment of the Band,
between periods in the Dal- anes Football Game in the pouring

rain,
v

Over One Hundred and Fifty Couples

Attend Homecoming Dance Friday

Over one hundred and fifty couples crowded into the Gymnasium last Friday night to enjoy the second event planned by
the Homecoming Committee—the Homecoming dance. Under

the blue and red spot lights

danced to the music of Fred Covey and his orchestra.

undergrads and alumni alike
In the

intermissional Bernal Sawyer said a few words of welcome;
after this the Phi Rho quartette sang two numbers, Brian

4

of his famous impersonations.

Homecoming Features
Chapel Service in Gym

An Academic Procession led by
Dr. A. E. Kerr, President of the
University,, and Colonel K. C.
‘Laurie, Chairman of the Board of
Governors, proceeded into the
Gymnasium through the west
doors as approximately two hundred and fifty of the Alumni, students and guests gathered at the
Chapel Service held therein last
Sunday afternoon at three o’clock.

The service was opened with the
singing of a hymn, followed by two
minutes silence in memory of those
who died in the war. After the
Lord’s Prayer, Dr. Griffin read the

» lesson. Then Diane Parker, noted
Dalhousie Contralto, sang ‘O, Be
. Merciful’.

Dr. G. E. Wilson led in prayers.

After another hymn, President

| Kerr gave a sermon taking as his

text ‘For those who are perfect,

let them be thus minded’. (Philip| plans).

Bernal Sawyer, Chairman of the
Homecoming Committee, conducted the service. The Glee Club
Chorus were present on the stage
lie a tee with a4 puee.

     
 
  

——

| the singing and cheering.

Edwards emceed a Barn Dance and Bob McDougall gave one

As the spot lights blossomed
forth from the stage, so too did
the music of Fred Covey who played not from the level of the dance
floor as in the past but from the
stage.

Then the Phi Rho Quartette
came on stage to sing two numbers
which were accepted with an enthusiastic call for more.

Members of the Quartette are Al
Billard, Strike Strickland, Jack
Boudreau and Jim Brander. They
are the same four who won last
year’s Munroe Day Contest.

Some of the more energetic
people then took part in a barn
dance. With Brian Edward calling
the instructions this event lasted
about fifteen minutes.

Mr. Sawyer then called Bob
McDougall on stage to give one of
his well known impersonations. So
Bob gave his rendition of “Life
Gets Tedious”.

 

Pep Rally Held Before
Basketball Contest

In an attempt to raise a bit of
enthusiasm for the game last Friday a [Pep Rally was held at the
West End of the new football field
Thursday evening, November 10,
before the basketball game. Attracted by the fire a handfull of
Dalhousians turned out to join in

a a ca a i - s

    

* * Do

OMECOMING WEEK-END SUCCESS
S NEARLY 300 ALUMNI ATTEND

OPEN

 

No, 13

ee Fe ae.

First Annual Homecoming Week-End Success
As Over Three Hundred Alumni and Many
Students Participate in Celebration

 

Delta Gamma to Hold

Open House Saturday

The Social Committee of the

Delta Gamma Society has com-|
pleted plans for the annual Open |
House, which will be held at Shir- |

reff Hall on Saturday night, November 19. This dance is generally one of the most enjoyable of the
season, and all the girls on the
campus are invited to attend. An

orchestra has been engaged for the |

Cheerleaders—Above are the Chaciibaders and Tumblers who were | occasion; dancing will be from 9-12. |
Tickets may be bought at the door

or throughout this week from
Isabel Russell,
Marnie Stevenson, Taffy
Joan Baxter (Shirreff Hall);
Lohnes, Carol Bethune

chen Fraser (City).

Parker,
Barb
and Gret
Holly Flemming, |

attendance.

‘President of the Council.

Notice

Afternoon classes will continue
half an hour late for the present

 

week. An announcement will be
| made in Friday’s Gazette.
Watch the Notice Boards for
further information.
Cc. L, BENNET,

Secretary of the Senate

 

Lost—A grey Parker fountain
pen. Will the finder please return

to the Gazette Office.
(J. P. Glee Club)

 

 

 

Anthony Clifton, solicitor and Richard Meriton, M.P.,

discuss the value

of the name Wurtzel Flummery in terms of £50,000.

“Wurzel Flummery” Contributed by
Glee-Club to Homecoming Week-End

On Saturday evening the Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society
made its contribution to the events
of Homecqming Week. Preceeding
the Glee Club Show itself the
Alumni and students assembled
were addressed by Raymond Smith,
President of the Alumni Society
and Dr. Kerr, President of the
University, who welcomed the
Alumni and said that the large
turnout was indicative of the
future success of the undertaking.

The Mixed Chorus opened the
program, singing three selections
under the direction of Professor
Harold Hamer.

Diane Parker, talented young
contralto, thrilled the audience
with her renditions of “Homing”’,
“Duna,” and “T’ll See You Again”.

A male duet with Tom Hall and
Bob Johnson sang “Tenor and
Maritone”, and “The Ballad
Singers,”

EE Ae tS a cae rae
The Chorus sang three more
selections, followed by The duo

piano team of Joyce Whittier and
Phillip Hebb who delighted the
audience with a series of piano
selections ranging from the classic
and graceful “Sheep May Safely
Graze” by Bach, to the sparkling
rhythms of “Jamaican Rumba” by
Arthur Benjamin and “Brazileria”
by Milhaud.

After this musical introduction
the two-act play “Wurzel Flummery” by A. A. Milne was presented under the direction of H. Leslie
Pigot. Robert Cranshaw was played by Harold Stevens, Richard
Meriton by Robin MeNeil, Mrs:
Cranshaw by Natasha Coffin, Viola
Cranshaw by Anne Thexton, Anthony Clifton by George Tracy,
Lancelot by James Nesbitt, and the
maid by Margo McLaren.

2

 

The first annual Homecoming of the University was held
over the past weekend with almost three hundred Alumni in
The weekend was sponsored by the Student
Council, and was the brain-child of Art Moreira, who is the

Registration took place on Fri|day morning, and despite the cool
| weather, a fair crowd turned out
for the football game between Dal
and Wanderers. In the evening, a
very enjoyable dance was held in

the Gym, with Fred Covey’s orchestra.
Saturday morning was devoted

to a meeting of the professors and
the Alumni and the afternoon saw
an exciting ground hockey game
between Dal and Edgehill, which
ended in a 1-1 score. A basketball
game at three o’clock was played
between Dal and the Grads, with
Dal winning by two points.

Saturday evening was the highlight of the week-end. The Glee
Culb presented a _ two-act play
“Wurzel Flummery” which was
very well received. The Glee Club
Chorus, interspersed with a few
duets and solos of voice and piano,
entertained with several selections,
which showed their vocal abilities
to advantage.

On Sunday, a Chapel
was held in the Gym,
Kerr giving the sermon. A reception took place later at Shirreff
Hall for the Alumni, faculty and
students.

It is hoped that the Homecoming
will become an annual affair, as
this first one was deemed most
successful by those who attended.

Service
with Dr.

Commerce Society to

Hold Party Saturday

The very active Commerce Society have completed plans for a
party to be held next Wednesday
evening, November 16ta at Mulgrave Park. The affair will be in
the form of a buffet style supper,
and entertainment will be provided.
It will be a stag party and cards
and other games will be on hand
for those interested. The time
8:30 and the admission, nothing.

At the meeting held last Thursday jn the Arts Building the Society elected their debating team
manager as well as their teain.
Manager is Bill Firth, and the
team consists of Maurice Foisy and
Bill Firth. Commerce of years ago
were the leading debaters on the
campus and they’re going to try
and revive the old spirit.

Dues for the society were set at
$1.00 and all students were asked
to pay them as soon as convenient.
They may be paid to the class representatives of the various

is

. classes.

 

 
Meet Your Friends at —
THE

Riviera Restaurant

a ae 85 Spring Garden Road

[ amber C: University Press

ce a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie

. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the

's’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
ie Gazette, Halifax, N. S.

ry Ase Stel gee ola iy,9 64s 38-7098
.......EHditors-in-Chief

GENTZELL
Advertising Manager

Office Manager ; PHOTOGRAPHERS
eas Rok ea |. C.U.P. Editor ye | Ss) anal

EDITORIAL STAFF

BLUE PRINTING

8814 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

Friday, Nov. 11—Did see many
relics of the past enter the gates
of Dullhousie this very morn. In

: truth they did exhibit great forti| Paniaain es bana sas Sports Editors 7 eS
MIN cals ies nt tude and stamina, to say nothing of

Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison| eoliege spirit. There was one

V Barbara MeGeough, Eliphal Nichols
ters—Bruce Irwin, Patsy Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
. Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay. :

Soberman . Photgrapher
ae ga ei alas has tem 0) die a's = ... Beatrice MacDonald
rite . Lucy Calp

i f
~ @eepeeoeneneves een ev es

portly gentleman of four score
years and six who did seek in vain
for former classmates. Did converse with Simmer Woodman,
chairman of the affair, who expressed approval at the large re
“The Students’ Drug

For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and

STORE”

invites you to drop in

and for unexcelled

Gloria Horne, Rona Yess Sundries,

Barb McGeoch, Pat Ahern turn of minies pouring into his
?

coffers,
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1949

No. 13
PATHETIC FALLACY -—

ne Yesterday, there appeared in the Halifax ChronicleHerald an editorial praising Dr. Watson Kirkconnell of

Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.

Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

TT

CANADA’S FINEST
CIGARETTE

Thence to the Lady Hamilton to
strengthen my body with physik
for the afternoon entertainment
which did consist of another game
of football, wherein the Studlee
— AE OT men did joust with the Meander
Acadia Anthenaeum. ~~ ers. After much grovelling in the iy .
Depot The Anthenaeum editorial brands as “incredibly mud oe pare te appeared. thal, the They’re Popular
naive” the action of the Canadian Christian Movement | Meanderers did leap more puddles :
in sending delegates to the World Youth Festival held | than the scholars with the inflated
this summer in Hungary. Of all Canadian organizations [sow bladder. Baron Less-gain|) The Dalhousie
which attended the conference, Dr. Kirkconnell claims | Who struggled valiantly for the
it to be the only one without Communistic leanings. scholars did become much incensed
ecMiral e with the decisions of arbiter Burnt

ae Embers. After due penance he returned to the quagmire to abet the
lost cause of Studlee.

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

Phinneys Limited

456 Barrington St.

rings with

gold crest on black onyx stone

are the popular choice.
-_ We do not question the accuracy of Dr. Kirkconnell’s
Statistics. We do question his reasoning. He seems to
believe that these few representatives of the S.C.M.
were “hoping to convert the hard-boiled goose-stepping
___. Red activists of the Festival to Christianity”. He con____ siders it shameful that these few Canadian youths
_-~——s “feillowshipped cheerfully with thirty young Communist
_ traitors all the way to Hungary and back”, and claims
“they helped to give respectability to a traitorous world

ss conspiracy”. |
All of these statements display just the type of bias,

In stock at Birks.

Henry Birks &

Sons Limited

This evening to the Ball in honour of the scholars of my day.
They did frolic and cavort with
much abandon, and did put the
youthful scholars to shame. Doo
McBrewgal did sing most humorously, and seemed none the worst

Where you will find a
complete Music Service

and the finest
Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.

Sports Equipment
Halifax, N. S.

, _ timers and universities and particularly

fear and shortsightedness which has prompted the
intermittent and ever-increasing “Red scares” in the
United States. If Canadians are not to be allowed to
take part in such activities, they will be subject to the
‘same fear of the unknown that is so prevalent in the
States. It would be just as logical to state that doctors

i ag - should not be allowed near the sick, or social workers

near the impoverished . . . we must all conduct our- selves with the same blind terror which prompts the

ostrich to stick his head in the sand.

The attitude adopted by the Halifax Chronicle_ Herald toward all this is. worse still. Finding a safe
subject on which to take a stand, it denounces with all
its might the editor of the McGill Daily who admitted
that any conversion hopes on the part of ‘the S.C.M.
were doomed to failure. What’s wrong with that? It
says that “it is disturbing to find young Canadians,
however small their minority, who are able to discuss a
hideous tyranny in gentle, ‘cream-puff’ language.”

Yet if one should refer to editorials in the Halifax
paper on any subject but Communism, there would be

found examples of “cream-puffing” to make all others:

- look sick.

The Chronicle-Herald concludes its editorial by saying again that it is “disturbing to find young Canadians
deluding themselves ‘by fraternizing with traitors to
Canada’”, and “the inexplicable thing is that the uni
_versities, as such, do not do something about it.”
_ Perhaps the esteemed editor would recommend loyalty
_ oaths for Canadian university students similar to those
_ which are recommended for the faculty of the Univer_ sity of California ... or it could be that anyone with a
Red tinge should be shot immediately for finding what
he considers a way of life superiors to ours.

Are we living in a democracy?

CONGRATULATIONS

_ The problem of introducing and developing any
original project on our campus is always great. Mari| Maritime
universities do not lend themselves to sudden innovations that are a radical departure from the normal
course of events.

_ We therefore point with pride to the Students’
Council and members of the Homecoming Committee,

ae who were responsible for the great success of Dal____ housie’s first Annual Homecoming. |

_ The task of re-unitirig the past and present was
not an easy one. It required the untiring efforts of a
‘small neucleus of workers, headed by Bernal Sawyer,

a _ who devoted most of their energies for over a month to

the event. It required the support of over three hundred alumni, whose feeling for Dalhousie was far from

for his joust with the Meanderers.

Exclamation Genuflect escorted a/|'

fair young damsel and smiled with
great pride as he scanned the inquiring faces.
strenuous activities, home, and to
bed, my wife insisting on staying
till the last waltz with her dancing
master. Methinks I must cuff her
soundly, for she has not been home
one evening this past fortnight.

Saturday, Nov. 12—To the college on the hill at an early hour.
Did find the Great Hall deserted
and so to the Lady Hamilton to
renew old acquaintanceships. There
did see one Dif Pennysdaughter
weeping despairingly in his beverage. He kept moaning, “Finished,
Finished.” In the Gaulish tongue.
Many of the scholars hied themselves home to their rustic hamlets to recuperate before the coming onslaught which is called
“cramming”’. Thus the Lady
Hamilton was bare; and did journey to the shoppe of the Sour Brothers to have my noon repast.

One Lightert did accost me and
tell with great gusto of the furor
at the home of the Applekncokers.
They are much incensed at the
placid attitude of the Dullhousie
scholars over their own misdemeanors. He is resolved to rebuke
these scoundrels for their vile language and illuminate the eternal
truth. ,

This afterfioon did witness the
inhabitants of Marmalade Hovel
joust ferociously with the invaders
from Ridgemountain. This game is
another of these radical contests
where there is much energy used
in pushing a little ball across a
field. After much battling the
scholars from Marmalade Hovel
left the field being neither victorious nor defeated, and it seemed
that all was for naught.

To entertain the relics of the
past the Glum Club did present a
masque called “Wurzel Flummery(?). ‘Tis said that Argo
Drawee, who was the principle, did
labour diligently, for he presented
a fine performance. The masque
was much enjoyed and laughter
could be heard as far as the forest
beyond Studlee. And so to bed.

Fatigued by such |

| S. Cunard and Company, Limited

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

Installed and Serviced

DARTMOUTH, N. S.
79 Upper Water St.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering
®

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

 

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:

Bachelor of Nursing Science

Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of Science

Diplomas in:

Hospital Pharmacy

Mining Geology

Music

Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

Education
Engineering
Engineering Physics
Food Technology

4
The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

C.M.
THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Public
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 available to
students applying for admission from High Schools or Junior
Colleges of the Maritime Provinces, and awarded on the basis

of educational attainments.

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full information as to fees,

courses, residence facilities, and dates of registration.

 

NT aS i iS whe
Slog: | Gitta: ae Ain MC Pe oe es
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
      
   
 
    
   
    
 
   
 
   
   
     
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

  
   

The Dalhousie-King’s Agreement
| The following article was submitted by a former
student of Kings, now attending Dalhousie, in participa. of the forthcoming revision of the agreement. !

Serre TE onad into the Common Room the other day ‘hopping to find
those premium pages of the local newspaper. By chance I was sitting
_ beside a group of Freshmen who appeared to be discussing our campus
» in general. Without any intention of eavesdropping on their contion, my attention was distracter from the ;paper by the answer
/ Was given in reply to the question, “What is this Gentleman’s
Agreement between Dal and King’s?” :
_ The relationship is more than just a “Gentleman’s Agreement”—
__ it is one embodied in the Articles of Association between the Goveryi  nors of King’s College, Windsor and the Governors of ‘Dalhousie Colin lege, Halifax drawn up in 1928, and is also defined by the provisions
of an agreement between the two Students’ Councils which may _be
s_)mabiect to review every three years.
_-—s- The Articles of Association were drawn up in furtherance of a
scheme, recommended by Commissioners of the Carnegie Corporation
y who investigated and reported upon the educational ‘resources and needs

in the Maritimes, to federate the Maritime Universities so as to lessen
it the duplication of effort and costs incident to the maintenance of a
number of colleges and universities.

er By these Articles, King’s was. to move from -Windsor, where she
y - was endowed by Royal Charter to confer degrees in Arts, Science, Law

  

  

al
n Poal i ul

   

  

  

a

  

bey

      

  

   
 

» and Divinity, to Halifax and associate with Dalhousie. Under the
terms King’s was to hold in abeyance its power of granting degrees
except in Divinity, but could continue to enrol its students in the fac-ulty of Arts and Science and have its name appear on the diploma of
- such degrees co-signed by its president. These students, however, must
- yegister at Dalhousie as King’s Students whereuvon ‘their tuition fees
"are paid over to King’s College except (a) the fees paid for all Science
classes and (b) a sum of $25 as a maintenance charge for the use of
Ls the Dalhousie Buildings and Campus. There is no similar amount payable to King’s by Dalhousie Students who enjoy the use of the King’s
buildings and campus. The registration fee for King’s students is the
same as for Studley at Dalhousie and is payable to Dalhousie to cover

\, administrative costs.

The Articles further provide that male students at Dalhousie in
any faculty may, at the discretion of King’s, enrol in King’s for resi_ dential purposes only.

Finally in these Articles, it is significant to notice that King’s
maintain its own endowments, scholarships and prizes. The University
is given two seats on the Dalhousie Board of Governors and any staff
appointments on the foundation of King’s except in Divinity have the
same rights to membership to the Senate and Faculty of Arts and
Science as members of the staff of that University.

sé.

2

~ The following appointments on the Staff have been made on the
foundation of King’s, namely; Dr. A. Stanley Walker, Dr. A. K. Grif\s fin, Prof. W. R. Maxwell, Dr. S. H. Prince, Dr. Burns Martin, Prof.
-F. H. Page, Prof. C. L, Lambertson and Prof. I. A. MacLennan. In
\ - addition King’s pay the salary of a laboratory technician, a Dalhousie
_ Librarian and half the salary of a Science Professor.
_ _ So much for that part of the relationship between these two universities as is provided by the Articles of Association which is, I think;
particularly material to us in considering the basis upon which the
complete relationship rests. With this historical sgnificance, if you
wish, of the legally binding agreement, permit me now to deal briefly
,. With the agreement entered upon by the two student bodies.

First, let us remember that King’s have two distinct Students’
Councils, one composed from the male students and the other composed
from the women, each of which elects its senior student or president.
These Councils exercise the same control over their student activities
as does the Dalhousie Council of Students exercise over our activities.
King’s students pay their own fee to their Council which provides for
student organizations comparable in number to those which we know
at Dalhousie. All Dalhousie students who enroll for resident purposes

only must pay the King’s Students’ Council fee which entitles them to

participate in their student activities.

Under the agreement King’s Students’ Council pays to the Dalhousie Council of Students the sum of $6.50 for every student either
resident or non-resident enrolled at King’s. This fee is increased or
decreased, as the case may be, proportionately to the Dalhousie Student
fee. In return for this per capita amount, King’s students are entitled
to the use of the Football Field and the Gymnasium in accordance with

. certain provisions,

| King’s are entitled thereunder to use the field for football prac| tices of one hour and one half duration at such periods as they wish
| every day of the week exeept Saturday and Sunday, providing that
.. their choice of time doesn’t interfere with the periods assigned for the
practice of the first football team of Dalhousie. It is further provided
that King’s may have the use of the field any Saturday for a league

contest saving and excepting such Saturday afternoons as may be re-|

+, quired by Dalhousie’s first team. (At present our field is being repaired and we are using the King’s field gratuitously.)

It is provided also that King’s will be allotted three hours every
week for basketball practices and games providing that such hours do
not conflict with the periods assigned for the first basketball team of
Dalhousie. When King’s Students are entitled to be in the gymnasium,
they are entitled to the use of the equipment in the gymnasium during
such time.

The agreement states that all King’s students must obtain the
consent of the King’s Students’ Council before participating on any
first team of Dalhousie or any activity carried on, by or through the
instrumentality of Sodales. For the application of this provision I
quote Mr. F. Fergusson, Senior Student and President of the King’s

_. Students’ Council, “Under Rules 9 ss 2 of M.I.A.U. it specifically states,
. “that any student registered at King’s cannot play for Dalhousie Uniyt versity in any intercollegiate sport”, With this exception, over which
we have no control, we have never withheld such permission but have
left the decision entirely to the individual student.

ys Finally under this student agreement, King’s students are entitled

to receive the Gazette and take part in any activities under the jurisdic
_ tion of the Dalhousie Council of Students, with the exception of voting

or being a candidate in the council’s elections, or holding office or

voting in any society under the jurisdiction of the Dalhousie Council

of Students, providing that each student wishing to participate in these

| activities purchase a Special non-transferable council card from King’s
_ for $1 payable to the Dalhousie Council of Students.

‘ In conclusion, this is the year when this agreement is subjected to
review and revision if required by either party, and a committee»has
been appointed representative of both student bodies for this purpose.

‘ely | appreciate the space which the editors of the Gazette have

for this article and hope that ‘it may justify their consider
  
  
 

  
  
 
 
    
    
    

da ete xy me Be, ee. ln
- 4 © a
; - . ra Soot ee és a i a : iy
om oe a * :) > a - *
eT a A . «ee c 4 i gia a a is iP
4 re ‘ “' £ aa : i at ap =

 

  

ee ig lia 3 a ae aah a, Ee ee gti be 34
a es eS =e aw oS a Vice * aps a ob eens = he rae —> amneiaiaan

 

 

Are Luckier Than Boys

successful as hiteh-hikers? This
question arose some time ago, so
we decided to ask some of the
co-eds and a few of the boys, their
opinions on girl hitch-hikers.

The co-eds are enthusiastic about
| this business and go at it with vim,
'vigour and vitality. Many, including a lot of Fizz Edders, come to
school that way in the morning,
while many others hitch hiked
around Canada and Europe during
the past summer.

The gifls got the rides too, and
in fact the boys were foreed to
admit they got them easier than
‘the male hitch hikers did.

 

_ The boys admitted that, given
the choice of picking up a male or
‘female passenger, they would invariably pick the gals, so you
co-eds are all set. Some morning,
|when a pair of you are running
late for that nine o’clock class, try
thumbing a ride. If you have as
much success as we understand
you are supposed to have, we are
willing to bet that you’ll soon be'come an old hand at it.

 

The Old Place Has Changed a Bit Since ’29
| Neticn

ation by enlightening, to some extent, some of us of the relationship |

which exists between these two Universities associated on the same! Casting rehearsal for Othelo will

Campus which has so often been referred to in rather nebulous lan- | take place in the Engineering

guage. ‘Men’s Common Room, tonight,
By DALHOUSIAN Tuesday, Nov. 15, at 7:30 P.M.

 

 

A HANDY REFERENCE BOOK ON
COMMON METALLURGICAL TERMS

The International Nickel Company of Canada, Limited
invites students planning or preparing for a career
involving the use of metals to write for this valuable
reference book. This 32 page book entitled “The Technical Editor Speaks...” contains a series of one-page
articles. ‘These articles explain the practical meanings
of technical words that are used in describing and
measuring the mechanical properties of metals and
alloys such as stress-strain, impact strength, Curie
point, elastic limit and thermal expansion.

 
   
     
  
   
       
 
  
   
 

a

Sut
y*t

;
%

  

eh
ab
oh fos 5

;
‘

x) aK

Tat
‘
\

¥
ae
PMA
2 : thy
io
Ag
%

wre

\ ‘ "s ”
a ¢ 0 » y a Me
~~ wean te - , “ #\\% Rove svat
oo vw int — ’ » ~ oh . = <2
ee ~ are wt > / \
waren satan
he o

  

ane et
wns tects ~~
a. "Sacro

 
  

Written by the Development and Research Division of The International Nickel Company, the purpose
of the book is to assist students and others interested in learning how to appraise the various properties
of metals. It will be valuable as a permanent reference book on metal terminology. It is available
without charge and will be sent on receipt of the coupon below.

i
yA | Gentlemen: Please send me a copy of the booklet entitled
e : “The Technical Editor Speaks .. .”. |

i
Fe ee a Rea Torte aR nn eel
'

  

j THE INTERNATIONAL NICKEL
COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED,
25 KING ST, W., TORONTO

NaME

 

TEL TS AO 8 FET TIRES OS Oe POET TET O Os ote Ee eR TY Te Oe oe

ADDRESS POPOE DATE OTTEEET SELON EU TEO LORI DGS 1 Ek OY PETER RET Ot OL EETREDO RDS LEER, STS + LTT te te

t SPS TATATRERER EOE be Pee N ESS He UE TTUET SESE REESE 14 EDEEEINS 688S TUES ELETETEREUSEETROETUTENET CPOEEST ELS) et eur EEEEE OBE EES FHS bo ree beneeee

5 te a Fa a a , aS si a my

ee lt alae

.
,

A tlh, | ee ee se 1S tli

     

 

~ . te ee ee - age og
hs =. ae i ie j = ae Ss oe 4 a i A

 

 

Many Coeds Hitch Hike;

TORONTO— (CUP) — Are girls

 

  

 
   
  

airing the cane of sports
r one issue is quite alien

| an charattevistics of an
Z it is actually | /environ
- Deine, your absent
nis » isa graphic illustration
1 a statement. (I say graa e when one meets Joe

ei in idle pranks, Joe spent
7 of his _ time swinging on

Another environmental
is the ability to acquire and
e all the <a and gab

tn in his tae splitting in__ finitives.

his” Solan he has unlimited resources.
bess Reale iy HI

: The football season is over for
* Dalhousie. Last Friday, our team
Oh played | and lost to the powerWanderers on a field that
wad be better termed, “Dry
"cleaners delight” rather than Redland Park, as rain and ground got
"together and mudded things up.
_ That game was expected to be light

- ealisthenics for the opposition but
it was not until the final gun that
they were positive of victory. For
a team that had nothing to gain,
Dalhousie displayed a_ spirit of
blood and guts that awed the Wan
CASINO
Tues. through Thurs.

| “Yes Sir, That’s

rs ay Baby”

Donald O’>CONNOR

and

Gloria DEHAVEN
%

STARTING FRIDAY
“HOME OF THE
BRAVE” —

Come on Students
Ride In The Best

3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone es Phone
3-7188 3-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

}

   
 
   
 

Compliments of
JOE and TOM

Diana Sweets

 
 
 
 
  

_

e students recreation centre

 

     
     
    
    

   
  
  
   
      

    
  
    

 

   
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
    

derers and as a result at halftime the score was tied 5-5.

The second half ended and with
it the game; the score was 16-6 for
them but in the minds of every
Dal player, it was Dal who won.
Whatta team, what spirit—and
what a scare we gave them,

And let’s say “what a coach”.
Here is a man who came to Dal
burning with ambition and even
though encountering innumerable
difficulties he kept it alive. He had
trouble finding suitable practice
grounds; had budget trouble—lost
so many of his players that he had
difficulty in dressing a complete
squad. Nevertheless his faith in
the school and team charged the
air about him and like ionic magic,
he oxidized every player with that
same faith and fervor.

His coaching history is a record
of tough luck; near misses; moral
victories and character building.
Tough luck — when he lost some
key players; near misses—when he
lost by score like 7-5; moral victories,—as in the game on Friday,
when the underdogs suddenly turned vicious; character building—as
he set a great example by his kindness, gentlemanly manner and encouraging words. Even in defeat,
he was proud of his team. Some
skeptics may say that, “Team
pride” is the synonym for naivete
during the losing season; but, they
are quite wrong. His pride for the
team not only came from words
but from the way he gave personal
attention and interest to each player. The team learned that a coach
doesn’t need to yell at them to
make them try harder.

Again, Whatta

man.!

whatta coach!

 

_ Hoopsters Trounce Grads 71-36
As MacDonald Scores 23 Points

, - Demonstrating superb floor play and smooth_ballhandling the Dal
Tiger’s Intermediate Basketball team overpowered a hapless Navy aggregation 71 to 36 at the Dal Gym Thursday night, Nov. 10.

. For the Tigers, Mason MacDonald was high scorer with 23 points.
Right behind him in the scoring parade was Scotty Morrison with 13,
followed by Connely and Coe with 12 each, Mahon with 11 and Pattendon, 10.

Connelly with his ball handling,
and the all around work of guards
Scott Henderson and Andy MacKay stood out for the Tigers.
Mason MacDonald was the main
cog in the victory machine, pacing
his team throughout the entire
second half.

From their showing to date
against the other teams in the
league, the Tiger’s quintet are
favored to cop the League Title
again this year.

           

done it again!

   
    

 

 

Oxford Theatre

SPECIAL

Presenting the second of many outstanding and
unusual motion pictures for adult theatre goers.

A New Kind of Movie
“PAISAN”

The best picture of the year, according to the
National Board of Review.

Produced in Rome with English dialogue.
Roberto Rosselini, director of “Open City”, has

FIRST HALIFAX SHOWING
STARTS NOVEMBER 2ist

 

Donny Harrison plunges for 15 yards before being stopped on’the
Wanderers’ 27-yard line by two of the Redmen’s stars, Johnny Young

and Pete Feron.

Following up on the play are Hugo Jones,

Rusty

McLean, and Tommy Belliveau of the Tigers.

BENGALS GO DOWN FIGHTING AS
WANDERERS WIN FINAL GAME 16-6

Playing their last game of the season, Dal’s fighting Tigers went
down to a high-flying Wanderers Twelve 16 to 6 at Redland Park last
Friday. A crowd of about 400, who sat through a steady downpour,
witnessed the game of the year. The win shot Wanderers into first
place while the Tigers were imbedded deeper into the league cellar.

Dave Nickerson kicked
open the game. Bringing the ball
down on his own 25 yd. line, Johnny
Young of Wanderers ran 85 yds.

through the entire Dal team for a
touchdown. The convert attempt
was unsuccessful, though Wanderers led 5 to 0. The fans, while
still recovering from Young’s sensational run, saw Dal boomerange
back into the ball game on the following three plays. Wanderers
kicked and Dal ran the ball back
to the 50. Andy Mackay on a
quarterback sneak broke through
for 45 yds. With 15 yds. between
Dal and pay-dirt the Tiger backfield tried an end run but could
only gain 1 yard. Then Andy Mackay cradled a pass in K. Fancy’s
arms who was standing in pay territory for the touchdown. George
Mattison’s attempted convert was
blocked and the score was deadlocked at 5-all.

The second quarter proved equally as interesting. Both teams
battled for territory. Finally Dalhousie‘s
Donnie Harrison—exploded. Time
and again he slipped through the
Wanderers line bringing Dal twice
to the Wanderers 1 yd. line. But on
each occasion the burly Red line
held. The Redmen then took over.

 

Young, Feron and Graves ran the

ball to the Tigers 8 yd. line where
Feron took a handoff from Young
and slipped under the Goal-line for
a T.D. Feron completed the convert shunting Wanderers into a 11
to 5 lead, However Dal never
ceased to press and missed a major
as Fancy standing in the clear failed to catch Jannigan’s 45 yd. pass

'at the end of the half.

   

   
 

 
 

    

      
  
 

    
  
 

off to@———-_____.

 

The Tigers carried the play
through most of the third quarter.
The Bengals kept pressing and remained well inside the Wanderers
territory but could not push the
pigskin over the goal-line. The
Collegians managed to garner a
single point on Malloy’s boot narrowing Wanderers lead to 5 points.
Late in the last quarter, Young
once again broke loose and scored
the final T.D. of the game. Feron’s
attempted convert was blocked.
The score remained at 16 to 6 for
Wanderers.

Outstanding for Wanderers were

Young, Feron, Gillespie and
Graves,

As for the Tigers the entire
team played head’s up ball. Don
nie Harrison, and Duke Morgan
drifted through the Red line as if
they were paper and Andy MacKay
along with Murray Malloy also
showed up well in the backfield. In
the line Hugo Jones, Danny Gilmore, Tommy Belliveau, and Don

135 lb. keg of dynamite—| Goode tried hard for the win which

just wasn’t there.

 

 

i the

 

a

sy (Break 20 es
Jinx By 2-0 Win

Through snow and rain the Dalhousie Tigers English Rugby squad
sped to a 2-0 victory over the Glace
Bay Legionaires, for their first
win over the Cape Breton champions since 1929, when the Bengals
made a clean sweep of Maritime
football.

The exhibition encounter,
scheduled for Armistice Day, was
postponed until Saturday afternoon
because of heavy rains, and even
then was played in driving wind
and sleet. Despite weather conditions, the Tigers played inspired
ball and were close to paydirt on
numerous occasions.

Gordy McCoy, of the football sa)
McCoys, came back from a secondhalf injury to lead the squad to
victory with a 85-yard field-goal.
He was by far the most outstanding player on the field.

At the opening whistle the Tigers
swept into Glace Bay territory, but
after a brilliant run by Captain
“Foo” Grant, the Legionaires kicked from their 5-yard line to send
the play back to mid-field. Led by
Freddy Laphen, the Dal squad
plunged back time after time, but
were foiled by the deadly tackling
of Adshade and the booming kicks
of big “Red” O’Dell.

The Legionaires started strong
in the second half as Curry and
Adshade came close to scoring on
short sneaks around the serum, but
after three minutes the Tigers took
over and Laphen, Morrison, and
Delory carried the ball to the Cape
Bretoners’ 5 yard line.

Then came the play of the season. MeCoy ghosted his way out
of a mix-up, ran back, then turned i
and drop-kicked the oval through
a maze of players. The ball sailed “
straight and true, and split the uprights, 35 yards away, to put the
Black and Gold into the lead, 2-0.

The Tigers really began to roll
as McCoy and Morrison teamed up
to make deep foray§ into Legion
territory, but were stopped short
of paydirt. In the last two minutes the Bay boys carried the ball
to the Tigers 10 yard line in a last
ditch effort to save the game, but ,
Dal serum, led by Archibald
and Jardine, rose to the heights as, .
they stopped the Legionaires cold,
and McCoy booted to center field

 d

an
‘

as the final whistle sounded.

A Great Convenience

For Students... ‘

EATON'S |

Shopping
Service

 

ea

EATON’S Shopping Service is ready to help you with

your shopping! .

buy at EATON’S, remember the EATON Guarantee:

. Call at the Store, phone, or write
in for expert help with your shopping .

. When you

+

 

“Goods Satisfactory or
Money Refunded’’ ~

 

a T.

HALIFAX

®*MARITIM

EATON (

LIMITED

CANADA
