  
   

 

eure) ey

 
 

n i iy er
= 2 iv * Ul yy ae a dow ee
~~ a
P i 4
eo yee eo
ae

p mera
= ee ae
‘ Es “ a vy
f T- - aad fe
: ee y i é _) — i
4 z i ee J is oad
Aaa ae, zz
\ " F i : h 1 Hy
f 4 }
4 "
3 1
3

 

 

 

a7
a ew :

a

ERS RED CROSS BLOOD

THE

Pas

a a ee hn
i ee «

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

i-i re fre

  
   
   

   

BOILERMAKERS
3ALL TO BE
FEB. 38RD

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 1950

No. 24

 

 

\j

 

 

The engineers wil go to any extremes to get a bit of publicity.
Here two boilermakers risk their mechanical necks on the girders of
the new Building in the hopes of arousing a turnout for the Boilerv makers- Ball.

 

A Lesson [n Finance

y The majority of the Council of Students is badly in
need of a lesson in elementary finance.

As the story elsewhere on this page reVeals, the Coun
cil, by an eight to three vote, approved a recommendation

by the Year Book Committee to dip into the sinking fund

to the extent of sixteen hundred dollars . .. this to help

: provide a total budget of four thousand dollars for the pub) lication of the 1949-50 Pharos.

} The Council does not seem to realize that sinking
funds are not set up to provide current revenue... they
‘ are for capital and emergency expenditure or losses .

Those who voted for the motion seem to justify their

action on the basis that this is emergency expenditure. In

tm any business sense it is no such thing. Any forseen ex
F pense is certainly not emergency. If anticipated current

expenditures cannot be met without delving into those

provisions made for capital and emergency expenditures,
then the anticipated expenditures should be cut.

We might as well expect the university to cut a room
¥ from the new Arts Building to cover operating losses at
Shirreff Hall, as pursue the present policy.

That the Council should wish'to publish a first-class
| year book is not strange. But when the time comes to pay
} for past mistakes, it should not jeopardize those features
| of stability which are still in existence.

_ Year books have been published for less than four
- | thousand dollars. Covers have been found that cost less
than eighty cents. Fewer pages and less expensive papers
have been used. The Committee is no doubt incorporating
some of these features in its plans. But if economy measures are not sufficient to bring cost within reaching distance of revenue, those measures should be extended.

 

ek: If the Council insists on its policy, the matter should
| at least be put to a student vote. And the more sensible
| students will agree that expenditure must not exceed

pee dae. S
evenue,
te £ t "
Wi aes. £  w
ee a 2 wa

4
hy. oP nn
Hi

a

      
  

i B
—

   
  
 

| arr
i

ao — . is
sm | Ye iat wit LAD
' Phage ’

 

OUNCIL TO UTILIZE SINKING |
FUND TO PUBLISH YEAR BOOK

ao

Council of Students Passes Vote of

 

 

Confidence on '49-’50 Year Book
ittee; Plan for Book Approved

The Students’ Council at its meeting Tuesday night approved by a vote of eight to three a motion of confidence in
the committee appointed to publish the 1949-1950 Pharos.
This vote of confidence included in it approval of the plans
drawn up by the committee in regard to the nature of the
book and the means by which it would be financed.

|

| e
Juniors Decide To

Hold Formal In Gym

The second meeting of the

_ | Junior Class was held last Tuesday

in the basement of the Arts Building. About thirty members of the
class turned out to hear the discussion relevant to the feasibility
of a Junior Prom, Andy MacKay
presided.

A report on the matter of a
Junior Prom was given by the
'Committee appointed to look into
‘the matter. The committee had
arrived at the conclusion that a
Gym dance was the only possible
form of a Prom that there could
be; and that only with a tremen'dous amount of co-operation from
ithe class. A formal dance, be it
in the Gymn or elsewhere was out
of the question.

The matter was discussed by the
meeting which decided that a formal dance would be held in the
Gym Mareh 1. A committee of
eight was appointed to make arrangements for the Prom,

A meeting of the Junior Class
will be held sometime next week
for the election of officers. A full
turnout of Juniors is humbly requested.

 

 

 

Grads Must Have
Photos Taken Now

The Year Book Committee has
announced that all graduate
photos that are to apear in Pharos
11950 must be taken before February 28th. All Studley graduates
are advised to make appointments
with Jack Dodge, photographer,
immediately as the pressure of
work may prevent them obtaining
an appointment at a later date.

The Year Book Committee has
rented gowns and hoods from the
Business Office which will be
available for the use of graduates
at Dodge’s Studio. . The Committee has also been instrumental im
obtaining a reduction of $2.00 from
the initial fee.

 

 

Forrest graduates are advised to
make. their appointments at
Climo’s Studio immediately. Mr.
Climo has all the necessary gowns,
hoods, and tabs for Forrest graduates, and has advised that early
appointments are necessary if all
graduates are to have their photos
in this year’s Year Book. Mr.
Climo has agreed to charge the
same low free as in previous years.

 

Cheques are expected for payment on Saturday morning, January 28. Please WATCH THE
NOTICE BOARDS FOR HOURS
OF PAYMENT.

Comm

ee

 

What Student Council
Did On Tuesday Night

Appointed a committee to consider the possibility of holding
a Red Cross. Blood Donor
Clinic,

2. Approved DAAC
medical expenses,

3. Approved re-allocation of funds
to provide a free skating
period after the hockey game
at the Forum Tuesday night.

budget for

4, Appointed Jan Robertson and
Shirley McCoy to Awards
Committee,

Approved Constitution of So
ciety of Graduate Studies.

6. Approved Report of Personal
Services and gave vote of
thanks to Manager Bub Troy.

7. Gave vote of thanks to Betty
Evans for the management of
N. S. Open Badminton Tournament, ;

8. Heard Report of Publicity
Committee and Allowed reallocation of funds for purchase of photographic equipment.

9. Considered letter from the
President of the University respecting the headline of the
Gazette of January 20. The
Council voted that the corresdence should be published in

' the Gazette.

. The Report of the 1949-1950
Pharos Committee was. considered. A motion of confidence in the committee and
support of its recommendations was passed by a vote of
8-3,

 

Notices |
Don’t forget to be in the Chem.
Theatre Tuesday at 12 o’clock to
hear Dr. T. W. Isherwood on
“What is the Christian Faith?”—
a most vital and interesting question for the student of today.

 

The regular meeting of the Dalhousie Co-Vettes will be held in the
Engineers’ Common Room at 8.15
p.m. on Tuesday, January 31. For
those interested there will be a
skating, party if the weather permits and for everyone else there
will be Bingo in the Common
Room. All students’ wives are invited to attend.

 

There will be an open house to
all students on Sunday evening at
8.45 p.m. in the Men’s Residence
Common Room.

Speaker: Ross Hamilton, who
will talk on “Student Thought Behind The Iron Curtain,

He

The vote of confidence was
moved by Council Member Ned
Banks (Dentistry) and seconded by
Dave Jamieson (Engineering). The
the motion—Milne, Coles, McCul
members voted as follows: For
loch, Lomas, Campbell, Jamieson,
Banks, and Doane. Against the
motion — Mackay, Sawyer, and
Doig. Abstention—Newman.

The vote of confidence was
forced upon the Council when it
was revealed that in order te publish the Year Book it would be
necessary to dip into the sinking
fund to an amount of not less than
$1,600, and this amount might be
increased if anything went wrong
with the committee’s plans. .It
was pointed out that the Council
was in a relatively unfavourable
financial position at present and
might have to draw upon the sinking fund to meet operating expenses of the current year. The
possibility that the basketball team
might reach the playoffs and have
to be financed out of the fund was
also mentioned. It was contended
by members Mackey, Doig and
Sawyer that to finance the Yearbook out of the sinking fund this
year would seriously deplete a
fund that had .been accumulated
over a period of about nineteen
years,

Other members of the Council
pointed out, however, that the
members of this year’s graduating
class had paid into this fund for a
period of at least three years.
This was denied by those opposed
to the expenditure. It was argued
that the members of this class had
paid for Yearbooks for three years
and to a graduate the most valuable book is that of the year of his
graduation. Many of the members
felt that a Yearbook should be published if it were at all within the
power of the Council to do so.

It was also argued by the members that if a Yearbook were not
published this year it would probably mean the end of Yearbooks at
Dalhousie. Some of the members
who opposed the report of the
committee contended that it would
be impossible to publish a yearbook next year as compulsory fees
could no longer be collected from
students upon registration. They
felt that the Yearbook was doomed
anyway and the publication of one
this year would do no good.

The adoption of the committee’s
report was also opposed on the
grounds that a plebiscite of the
student body was a necessary prerequisite to any expenditure of
money from the sinking fund. It
pointed out that several years ago
the Council had gone to the stu
(Continued on page four)

  
   
 
;
VP ni ie
My
J

ol
4

X cs vial

  
 
 

"AMERICA’S OLDEST goLieen PAPER

ii o _ Member Canadian University Press

oe ae twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie

me ee, Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
Perr ¥ ents’ Council. For oe write Business Manager,

aa , ousie Gazette, Halifax, N. S

   
 

 
 

we wticnualssl GAMA: Didrsuink: a bles aveed 83-7098
Daria tate Editor-in-Chief

rial ina
a i tr es | Foy gM Biutake sb otha beep oe ey Ae Managing Editor
Ifred Harris ............ Sturt oes eee Advertising Manager

aa rm ea ACERR a terns 4 UIE Toyo oes eles Office Manager
% cDonald 
Pes ide ard Cie ha oe F sodln So piajacdtete 39 dips C.U.P. Editor
3 ares Mactoios

EDITORIAL STAFF
Bcd 2 oe ae Cie else Cen ie News Editors

rie Cato —
| Mar Goldburgh ]....... Bree OE. sili es .. Feature Editor
Irwin | |
5S oe i Re ee, He lah Sees oy. Mes bk Sports Editors
rf Sports Reporters......... Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
att a ae Feature Writers. Bis oe Judy McKeen, Barbara McGeoch, Eliphal Nichols

ruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

ie ey re ar
Owe a, ’ 7

aes

 

TENY ORL SID a's io. Rie's o Aes Sid's bie ec 'e abceialsi» 94 Dan Soberman

Tenemee eye Dave Nicholson, Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald

etna ad hades wv iiealc ee weak 4s wd bik ae we beta ve Lucy Calp

Ba asht0 2 OP inp dda et ore Ma ee 26 40 e's Gloria Horne, Rona Yess

Vol. LXXXII FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 1950 No. 24

CLASS VERSUS SOCIETY

ai ek _ The classification of students at Dalhousie for extra-curricular
-—=—s«é*UEposes is, to say the least, inefficient. We talk of student apathy.
We blame the university, the city, the end of the war, other students,
_ and even ourselves if all else fails, but we have never given our
_ student organization the scrutiny it deserves
We put every student into two or more categories at once, and he
is given little opportunity to become fully aware of the responsibilities
involved in any of them.
Let us take, for example, an Arts student. After his first week
or so, he quickly forgets the freshman phase of his career and, if his
Society is on its toes, he is sold a membership ticket in the Arts and
Science Society. From then on, the student is more an Arts and
Science man than a freshman, sophomore, junior or senior. These
four categories are called to mind only when there is a dance sponsored
by one of the classes . . . a dance which is usually the brain-child of
about 10% of the class involved.
: There is a further complication. Should the'student join any one
of the Students’ Council sponsored organizations on the campus such
as the Glee Club, Sodales, the Publicity Committee, or the Gazette,
his affiliation with his Society will often go by the board.
Clearly then, some better system should be evolved if a student is
to fulfill his obligations to those with whom his studies group him
... or if he is to do so much as become aware of his obligations.
From the above analysis, it might seem that the secieties, being
the more powerful of the two types of organization under question,
_ should be retained, and the class system dropped altogether. But the
- purpose of such organizations is supposed to be the broadening of the
student’s interests and associations and outlooks. This purpose will
only be partly achieved if the student meets merely those whose
Studies match his.
yi This overlapping of systems has caused us trouble more than
once, The lack of interest in and the consequent failure of the Junior
Prom last year can be traced to this source. But the most obvious
and prevalent proof of trouble can be seen in the attendance at any
meeting of any society or class. There is usually found the samme
(10% of students at such times ... the ten per cent who are sufficiently aware and interested to divide their time between two overlapping organizations. It has been proved time and time again that
the other 90% will not so divide their attention. Indeed, given any
distraction, their attention will turn completely.
We do not recommend that the Council immediately abolish one
of these types of organization ... we do, however, ask that an
examination be made of their relative merits, and action taken thereon.

Letter To The Editor

 

    

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
  

January 19, 1950.
Dear Mr. Moreira:

Dr, Kerr has asked me to send
you the following excerpt, with
- reference to Pharos, from the
minutes of the meeting of the
Executive Committee of the Board
of Governors, held on January 13:
“It was unanimously resolved
that it shall be the policy of the
university, in accordance with the
- opinion of the Board-Senate Committee:

(1) That, beginning with the present session (1949-50), the sum

. “members of the graduating
. class only ;
(2), That the Students’ Council be
advised that the amount of
$3.00 already collected for all
_ other students in 1949-50 will
be returned to them along
with the unexpended portion
of their Caution Deposit—if
students not in the graduat‘ing class wish to purchase
copies of the 1949-50 issue of
Pharos, they may do so volun tarily; and
a That/the students be asked to
_ publish a less expensive Year
Book than the ‘present one, in
keeping with their ore
ents,

side t. Te reneae ii of January Sot

of $3.00 be collected from.

 

January 24, 1950.
Dear Mr. Moreira:

Relative to the headline in the
Dalhousie Gazette, Friday, January 20, “Council to publish Pharos
despite University. Ruling’, the
Executive of the Board of Governors, at its meeting yesterday,
decided to call to the Council’s attention to the fact that the Executive has issued no “ruling” in the
matter but had merely made a
request.

I think this is clear from the
minute quoted in my letter of
January 19:

“That the students be asked to
publish a less expensive Year Book
than the present one, in keeping
with their antieipated resources”.

Wil you please bring this matter
to the attention of the Council?

Yours very truly,

Nola Henry,
Secretary to the President.

January 25, 1950.
The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir,

At the last meeting of the Council the folowing resolution was
passed: |

“To clarify a misinterpretation
arising out of a headline in the}

De

 
   
 
    
    
  

 
   

 
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

Wednesday, Jan. 25, 1950—Alas,
my new system of bookkeeping
has proved unsuccessful and I am
forced to recite from memory all
that I saw at the Spectator
Gallop.

Surely She’s Coy was approaching the scales to be weighed to
determine the price of her admittance but her escort did snatch
her back and state that he would
rather pay the full amount than
take a chance on her weight.

Billsdaughter was there with
Miss Wouldn’t, who was his partner long ago; I was pleased to
see them together again, for they
make a fine couple.

Also present was Knave Flusher,
an aged and decrepit journalist,
was told all and sundry that when
he had been Editor of the Spectator it had been a much superior
publication, The revelers did humor
this dotard and all pretended to
believe his assertions, though they
were manifestly false.

Less Ozone, the Prime Minister,
graced the occasion with his presence and had the good fortune to
win the special prize, a box of
confections. I asked him if he
were embarrassed by this unaccustomed publicity, but his only
reply was, “I hate chocolates”. I
do believe that Miss McDull, his
partner, was quite pleased however.

Miss Phlemn and Lord Giggle
did do the minuet quite gracefully
and a group of admirers collected
about them to watch. Art Hairline, his partner, were also graceful but did not collect so large a
group of admirers.

Some were nervous lest the net
which was tied over their heads
should fall upon them and some
of the more befuddled did cry out
that it had fallen but this was
their own imagining.

Thursday, Jan. 26, 1950 — Did
meet Allfired Hairless who told
me, rubbing his hands together the
while, that the Spectator had not
made a financial loss on the Gallop
as all had anticipated.

Did hear that the Junior Class,
a group of the scholars, did ‘announce that a meeting was to be
held. Over twenty damsels appeared at the meeting but only
five young gentlemen, A vote was
held to determine whether they
were to sponsor a ball, and all the
damsels and one gentlemen voted
for the affair, but the other four
men were opposed. The Parliament looks upon this enterprise
with great disfavor and has’ decreed that the members of the
committee are to become personally liable for the success of the
affair. Some difficulty is anticipated in obtaining a committee.

Did go to the Law school, where
I met Mr. Foxe. He told me that
he had just come from the latest
lecture of the new class the legal
scholars are taking and that now
he knows all: about the stock
market. He said that he was on
his way to the Assembly Room
where he would try to enter a
game of chance to get some capital to start his venture. His plan
is to buy shares on the margin
and sell shares himself on a holding company to take any loss he
may incur. He intends to issue a
large number of preferred shares
at 100% to himself and neglect to
declare a dividend on the Common
stock. In this way he intends to
make enough to retire for life in
Kingston.

 

we request that the enclosed correspondence be printed.”
Yours very truly,
Arthur Moreira,
pisces, Council of Bentonite.

  

 
 

 

 

= poor) ge Pee Jee

  

4 _ DALHOUSIE pcan

     

 

Come on Students
Ride In The Best

3-S TAXI SERVICE

| Phone ee Phone
3-7188 3-7188

Constihens cy
JOE and TOM
Diana Sweets
Tea Room >

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

The students recreation centre

 

They’re Popular

Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at
Phinneys Limited

45 06 Barrington St.

Be sure the famous Birks
Blue Box
choice.

Henry Birks &

Sons Limited
A.G.S.

encloses your

' Where you will find a
complete Musie Service

and the finest
Registered Jeweller,

Halifax, N. S.

| Sports Equipment

le

Ovg O

 

 

YU
“a 0

 

“Hold on, folks! Handsome Harry is saying
something to his opponent. Let’s listen!’’

(On the air.) —"Say, you lug! If you’d lick

Dry Scalp with “Vaseline’ Hair Tonic you’d

have nice looking hair and get across with
the crowd, too.”

me eel HAIR TONIC

RADE MAR

WASELINE’ IS THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESESROUGH MFG. CO. CONS'D.

 

EUROPEAN

STUDENT TOUR

Sail May 27th on One Class ship in Canadian Service with
run of the ship privileges. London, Trossachs, Edinburgh;
motor tour of Seott Country, English Lakes, ‘Shakespeare
Country, Oxford. Holland, Belgium, Lucerne, Interlaken,
Montreux, Geneva, Italian Lakes, Venice, Rome, Hill Towns,
Florence, French and Italian Rivieras, Paris. 67 days $1098
for complete tour or $878 without Italy.

 

 

phone, call or write

UNIVERSITY TRAVEL CLUB

57 Bloor St. West, Toronto, Kingsdale 6984

Management: J. F. and G,

H. Lueas

CANADA’S
FIRST BANK

Halifax Branch:

North End Branch:
over Road _and Kline St.:

—
2652 Mg. dg je “245 ee a

JOHN A. HOBSON, M
JOHN A. EDWARDS,

"he
S SMITH, ied Mar.
\e 1, MeGERR iLE, ‘Mgr. ©

bth fe

CHAR
JAMES:

 

 
ee ee oe ,
Ot

|

7 3g rE
i +a Y
A Mui ae Me Ce
> ay

1 oie a a
¥ i sand

ee Ye
a

CK PARLIAMENT

  

 

 

   
 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N.S

S., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1950

MILLIONAIRES’ BALL

FRIDAY, 10th

No. 26

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
   
   
    
  
    
   
    
 
   
    
 
   
     
   
 
   
  
  
    
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
     

 

Some of the cast of the DGDS production of “Othello”, which was
seen last night by the students, and which will be presented tonight and

tomorrow to the public.

 

Year’s Session of Mock Parliament
To Begin Next Week at Law School

Mock Parliament is expected to
open this year on Monday, Feb. 13,
L. W. Fraser, K.C., as speaker.
This Parliament is conducted along
the lines of the Federal body in
Ottawa, and parliamentary pro
filiations are not strictly adhered
to.

_ The Liberal Club will form the

‘

government. At a meeting last
week D. C. Robertson was elected
Prime Minister. W. C. Matthews,
President of the Progressive-Congervative Club will be Leader of
The -Official Opposition, who will
be assisted in opposition by George
Loukes, President of the C.C.U.F.
The ministry wil be made up of
about ten government supporters.
- Mock Parliament will run for
three days. The first night will be
taken up with the general procedure of the opening of the House.

The members will be called from
the Commons chamber to the Senate room where the Speech from
the Throne will be read. The members will then return to their
chamber where the Prime Minister,

observance of a long-standing tradition at Dalhousie.

The second night the government
will introduce two pieces of legislation. The last sitting of Parliament will be taken up with two
opposition bills, one sponsored by
each party.

The meetings of the Mock Parliament will open to the general
public, and students in History and
Political Science who are looking
forward to Law are especially welcome. This is the oldest Mock
Parliament in Canadian Universities and was initiated in 1886,

 

ered in the Chemistry Theatre, last
Tuesday before an audience of well
over one hundred students and faculty members.

Dr. Isherwood, rector of St.
Paul’s ‘Church, was brought to the
campus under the joint sponsorship of the I.V.C.F. and S.C.M. organiaztions. He chose the theme

“We do not hold out against the
facts of the world but come to
grips with them,” he said.

On Feb. 7, Dr. Isherwood will
again speak to Dalhousie students
concerning the question, “Is God
at work today?” and will conclude
the series on Feb. 14 with the discussion on “What about the Chris
|

D.G.D.8. PRODUCTION

“OTHELLO” SUCCESS

 

What the Student Tracy Outstanding as lago;
Supporting Cast Excellent

“Othello”, the Shakespearian production of the Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society, was presented to an appreci
Council Did Tuesday

1. Aproved Glee Club Budget of
$30 for electricians Fees.

. Heard report on 1.8.8. Dance.

. Dealt with miscellaneous correspondence,

. Learned that Chess Club has
$3.81 to its credit and Student
Veterans Organization has
$2.80, but was unable to take
action as these groups had no
representation at the meeting.

. Apointed committee to choose
Dal students to attend NFCUS
Quebec Seminar. (Lomas, Ross
Hamilton, Dr. Smith).

. Heard report of NFCUS National President Richey Love,
on NFCUS national activities
and the local NFCUS Committee,

. Voted to reallocate $50 from
Sodales budget to help meet

graphed and distributed among
Council members.

Heard report of Publicity Committee and passed Publicity
budget,

Appointed Committee to look
into means of financing future
Yearbooks.

Decided to hold Student Forum
on February 14th.

10.

1h.

12.

 

Awards Committee
Sends Notices

June, 1949,

These forms should be sent in to
the committee before February
7, 1950. If the Committee fails to
hear from any student by that date
it will be assumed that he has no
points to his credit.

 

ative audience of students last oes in the Gym.

The main

role, that of lago, was played by George Tracy who succeeded in portraying the villian in a real Shakespearing style. Art
Hartling handled the part of Othello while that of Desdemona

was played by Willa Seeley.
As important to all practical
purposes as the role of Desdemona
that of Emelia was played by
Holly Flemming. Robin MacNeil
was the loyal and brave Cassio.
H. Leslie Pigot was responsible

 

Varsity Vetoes
Student Pubs

red to a Varsity columnist’s suggestion that beer be sold in the
athletic building in order to raise
funds for the construction of a
more spacious field house.

Bob Dnieper, sports writer for
The Varsity, defended his proposal
on the grounds that the athletic
association would be unable to

| yaise the two million dollars neces
sary to build an adequate athletic
building unless such a scheme was
adopted.

Of the 9,000 male students visiting Hart House each day, Dneiper
estimated that “90 per cent admit
they drink, nine per cent lie about

for the excellent directing and
guidance required to stage such a
difficult production. As in the past
productions such as “MacBeth”,
and “Twelfth Night” Mr. Pigot coordinated the acting, scenery, and
various details into a complete art.

The production was unified in
many instances by the suitable
and well prepared scenery and
stage effects. The industry of the
stage crew was aparent. Albert
McMahon was the stage manager.

 

© eedure is strictly observed. There| the leader of the opposition and x O—!CUP)—Beer will
are no elections, each member of| other members will speak in the Sais vei Geopiere: 40! HO te, pach ok j l il A . d
. i i g p.*E the ; sas
ire | F Bedaes Gudeas of soraeld contions in Hart House uc 1 NOY BPPO MNS
, : . . ee _ i Sj : it a o
f ; theoretically from the campus pol- Either the Motion in reply to the 9 A ah ah at oe BF iy ee ck ae i Chief Justice of N. $.
iti iti -| Speech from the Throne or the sec-| “* ene é es” are
itical clubs, although political af sg Salt he ‘Aslivaved in Branch sa 1948-1949 Yearbook. mimeo-| The president’s statement refer- The Federal Government an
nounced last Thursday the appointment of ‘Mr. Justice Ilsley to the
position of Chief Justice for Nova
Scotia following the death of Sir
Joseph Chisholm on January 22nd.

Mr. Justice Ilsley attended college at Acadia University, following which he moved on to Dal Law
School where he graduated in 1916
with an LL.B. After this he studied law in Kentville and later at
Halifax. In 1928 he received his
King’s Counsel.

In 1928 he was elected to the
House of Commons as a Liberal.
He was re-elected again in 1980
and in 1985 when he was appointed

 

| Dalhousie students | have been Vand) the vest have stomach | *° the Privy Council. During the
‘ : sent a form to be filled in giving| ,jcors” On the basis of this, he | W2@" he was Minister of Finance
D T. WwW A hi d D | F information as to their extra- predicted a potential ‘profit of and in 1946 became Minister on
r. . . $ erwoo e ivers irst curricular activities at the Univer-| ¢159.000 a year through the sale| Justice.
: Of S e f Talks on Reli ion sity. These were sent out by the! o¢ beer. In five years, the univer- In May 1949 he was appointed
, eries 0 g eae Committee of the Student| sity would have enough money to|to the Supreme Court of Nova
ouncil to determine the point| pooin construction Scotia.
; The first of a series of talks by we do not Lone at the world with standing of students who have . ,
Cannon T. W. Isherwood was deliy-| blinkers on” stated Dr. Isherwood.| earned points to their credit up to

Canadian Education L acliiea in
Intensity, Principal Declares

Kingston, On.t (CUP) —*
education is as good as any but is
lacking in intensity as compared to
that in Britain,’ was the conclu
Cana-| high

schools and universities to
interest their students in a teaching career. The failure of our
schools to engender a legitimate

. . . ” s $ « + . TOY ” . .
. oo Faith” as the topic | tian in the modern world. Plans for D-Day Over sion drawn by Principal Wallace of | nationalism was deplorable. ihe
>) | HO MAS secure. i ‘ Queen’s University in a recent|were turning our “geographica
Introduced by Dr. A. E. Kerr, CJCH Being Finalized forum. The subject of the forum| morons and historical illiterates.”
_ president of the University, Dr. NOTICE was: “Canadian Education, Good,| As to dynamic internationalism
_ Isherwood defined the Christian! ‘The Physies and Chemistry| Plans are being drawn up for the Bad, or Indifferent ?” “the vision of a united world is

faith as the “faith held by those
who see something unique in

Christ.” For them, He is the em
bodiment of the mind and will and
purpose of God.

Dr. Isherwood said that he was
not there to defend the Christian

Journal Club will meet in the
Physics Theatre on Tuesday, February 7 at 5 p.m. The first speaker, Dr. E. W. Guptill will discuss
“High Frequency Resistance at
Low Temperatures”. Mr. W. D. L.
Sherren, the second speaker, will

Annual D-Day Radio Broadcast, to
be held the day before Munro Day.
All announcers, script-writers, etc.,
are invited to attend a meeting to
be held at 2 p.m. in the Basement
of the Arts Building.

This has been an annual affair

Opening the discussion, Mr. Hutton of the Extension Department,
commented on improvements in the
educational system in recent years
notably the centralization into
larger units which permits expanded facilities. As for the con
the veriest pipe dream to the person with no vyision of
country,” he concluded.
He emphasised the attempt to
eradicate white collar snobbery by
issuing almost identical graduation
certificates to students from aca
a united

_ faith, but to let it speak for itself. | deal with “Thermal Dehydration of} and it is hoped that the College} tention that this discouraged local| demic, commercial and_ technical
K In 1950, the Christian Faith is) Sugars”. spirit which has been lacking re-| initiative, in his experience “there| branches, ‘the main divisions in

still the answer to those who would
know the truth. If we are to know
God, we can and must know Him

_ through Christ who said, “I am the

‘ie a the Truth, and The Life....

ret this Christian faith,
a. ye

 

NOTICE

There will be a full dress rehearsal of the opera “Pirates of
(Penzance” Sunday, February 5th,

‘at 2:00 P.M. A full Biebeaetes is

essential,

cently, will spark up and make
D-Day a great success. If you’re a
would-be Norm Riley, or a second
George Rich, put your thinking cap
on and leave it there until Friday
at two. CJCH is the station and
the day before Munro Day, will be
Dalhousie Day on CJCH.

was little local initiative to discourage.” He noted an improvement in inspectors who no longer
“terrorised students, and paralyzed
teachers.” The latter, however,
were still too poorly paid and the
turnover of them too high.

He urged the responsibility of

most high schools. To point his
most serious criticism of our educational system he cited the case
of a young graduate of Victoria
College who drowned when his
canoe capsized ten feet from shore
since he had not been taught to:
swim.

=

Js
  

POE UNEY 9 Ae cise use dw che sens

& py Charles MacIntosh i

AMERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER

Member Canadian University Press

_ Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
University. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
Students’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
Dalhousie Gazette, Halifax, N.

Editorial Office: ete eeeeneereeers
Bruce Lockwood ............

@ Spb @. Be 6078 © .¢€ 8 O'S @ O.8(@ 2

 

S.

Se ain gc Ws tmae a ace cae Managing Editor

af ase ay ea ates aie Advertising Manager
ffice Manager
C.U.P. Editor

“ee ee eee we weer rr eee

EDITORIAL STAFF

...News Editors

om , Valerie Cato ee ee
wi ra Marj. Goldburgh Sathew wcies SOE Gide vats: phele ‘e's'e.s,4 ... Feature Editor
a Bruce Irwin }

a Pat Ahern } LEARNT ASS Oe ae: IRE ee ep a Sports Editors
By Don Kerr eM Pia

HE Sports Reporters......... Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
Feature Writers...... Judy McKeen, Barbara McGeoch, Eliphal Nichols

Reporters—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
aie Noel Goodridge, Coline ‘Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,

mo Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.
: CT a RL ks Lak avails ble. a4 biaid «4.6% ¢'e.0 00:9 Dan Soberman
i Carteoenist.,..5...... Dave Nicholson, Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
: IRE i tio cle tae a WG @ a-elare Wiece/h 6 40's 00s bias slew ae coe’ Lucy Calp
CE eo ae a ial Go « ole eben Gloria Horne, Rona Yess

 

7ol. LXXXI

NEW

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3,.1950

No. 26

 

IDEAS

The Junior Class has developed a new idea... they will
hold their formal dance in the gymnasium this year. Because
the idea is so new, it is being criticized by al and sundry ne
these being the ones who have never heard of a gymnasium
being used for a formal, or using so-called drastic measures

to meet drastic situations.

What they forget or never knew is that, previous to the
building of our two big hotels, a great many formal dances
were held in the gym, and even a few since then.

With the class in debt, there is no good reason why it
should lay itself open to the financial collapse which occurred

last year.

Whatever the reason then, there is no cause to

believe that paying three hundred dollars for a ballroom will

not again result.in disaster.

The gymnasium can be decorated in such a way as to
remove the bareness, and even the acoustic shortcomings.
With tables strategically placed, and a decent stage show or
some other drawing card planned, a formal in th gym could

easily be the best of the year.

 

   

Letters To

January 31st, 1950
The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear Sir,

At a meeting of the Council held
tonight plans were made for a special meeting of-the Council to be
devoted to considering the “state
of the union” and the merits of a
brief being prepared on the subject. During the discussion it was
stated that a serious misunderstanding had arisen as to the
Council’s position in relation to my
remarks at last term’s student
forum. It was said that people
both on and off the Campus had
tended to associate the Council
with what I had said.

I therefore feel bound to say (as
I said at the Forum) that I could
speak for myself only, and that my
remarks represented my own feelings only, and were in no way to
The Council was not consulted bebe asociated with the Council’s.
fore the speech was delivered.

Mr. McKinney laid down the
only precedent that I am aware of,
and he referred to his own remarks as “a more or less personal
report ... the result of my own
personal experiences and observations as President of the Council.”

Yours very truly,
ARTHUR MOREIRA,
(President,
the Council of Students

AN OPEN LETTER

For weeks I’ve been listening to
uninformed individuals voicing
their opinions on why Pharos is
late and how inefficient an editor

the publication had. I planned to
a let the quality of the book speak
for me but the committee in charge
| informs me that binding hasn’t
started as yet and, as a result of
-yesterday’s column by your misinterpreter of facts, one O’eNill,
| the following statement is neces
sary.

To single out one individual or
aN organization and there place the
_ blame is a typical O’Neill method,
i and here, as in most cases, he
| doesn’t know enough facts (or is

unwilling to print them) to warrant his sounding off. His effort
to lift the mantle of shame from

 

 

The Editor

Moreira’s

 

(and the

Council’s)
drooping shoulders and place it on
mine is more evident of his sincere friendship for Moreira and his
policies than an attempt to obtain
the truth,

That the yearbook is late is due
to an unhappy combination of facts
and circumstances which couldn’t
happen again, Originally there
was a time clause in the publisher’s contract which called for sixteen pages per week being deliyered. This operation was to commence in February when the
graduate sections were due. The
staff was forced to break that
agreement because the graduates
refused to cooperate in getting pictures taken and write-ups in. Students said the photographers we
picked were expensive. Considering that we supplied gowns students had been forced to rent previously they were cheaper and better.
give me authority to accept pictures only from photographers who
could deliver quality pictures on
time and failed. By the time the
pictures were in (four weeks late,
in some instances) my grad editors couldn’t devote much time to
year book duties as they had. Glee
Club practices nightly. From the
beginning we were late.

Other factors further delayed
Pharos. The last three hundred
undergrad shots weren’t printed by
the operator who did the others.
The new chap made a hash of it
and at that stage my staff was SO
energetic that they mixed the bad
shots with the good—as a result
al of the underlgrad shots had to
be gone over by the photographer
and. the inferior shots reprinted.
This necessitated trimming of some
of the shots and as a result this
section which was to have followed
the grads to press was also delayed. No other section of a year
book can go to press before the
student activities close, unless students want a book which ends its
coverage in January. a

My girls’ sports’ editor wasn’t as
energetic in getting pictures for
her section as she-could have been,
and when she did get the photographers and girls together, the

I appealed to the Council to’

= sae Te ata
Py Pet

DALHOUSIE

photographer slipped on the ice, | leave further work on the book un-; THIS ACTION WOULDN’T DE
smashing his camera and ruining
his negatives. Another attempt
was made the next week with a
new camera—the camera was defective with blurry results. The
following time only half the girls
showed up which meant another
photographer had to chase them
down individually. The same sort
of thing happened with almost
every other section.

The mens’ sports editor couldn’t
grasp what he had to do—features
staff was worse because with their
departure many of our best pictures vanished. Photographers
were hampered by lack of darkroom facilities and overwork (the
previous year more work was done
by paid photographers), combined
with the lethargy of student organizations whose cooperation is essential. I knew, before we found
the covers would be late, that, it
would be impossible to get a book
out on time, but to have mentioned
that would have meant that even
more pressure would have had to
be exerted on the staff. During
February and early March, I could
devote only so much time to the
year book and most of the time I
had to spend chasing material for
sections which should have gone to
press previously, leaving me little
time to get work done on other
sections. The staff was told early
in the year that they were expected to perform their duties, once defined, without undue pressure being exerted. They didn’t, and very
little of their work was completed
at the end’ of March when they
stopped to study, some promising
faithfully they’d stay after exams
to complete their work. Only one,
Mary MacKay, kept her word. Another person who did twice as much
work as she should have had to do
was Carol Wood but even she got
discouraged. ;

If the staff had stayed, the book
couldn’t have come out on time because of a misunderstanding by
the cover company, stemming from
a mistake made by a Canadian
trade official in New York. When
the covers were half completed
(cut, grained, embossed and rubbed), one of the firm’s officials was
told by this Canadian that due to
the American dollar shortage, customs wouldn’t allow the covers into
this country. I knew this to be untrue, but had great difficulty in
persuading the company I was
right, finally getting a ruling
through the efforts of our local
M.P. The covers, much superior
and just as cheap as their Canadian counterparts, arrived in July.

Knowledge the covers wouldn’t
arrive until towards the end of
July, angry because my staff
walked out after exams, and the

necessity of working to obtain
money to live on until. my jeb
commenced in June, led me

 

til I arrived in Cape Breton. I did
a limited amount of work on the
book after my arrival there. I
readily admit I could have finished
the book before the middle of June,
but AT THE TIME I FELT SURE

LAY FINAL PUBLICATION.
‘Shortly after my arrival I sustained a serious skull fracture
which kept me under treatment in
Cape Breton and Halifax until
(Continued on page three)

 

 

——4
ed sa
oo

tt

Se

 

“And I thought

gaye am had tt easy”


  
 
  
 
  
 

less leisure.

Ss

eb y.W 8 are

Egbert has worked hard for four years
to get the top job on the campus...
only to find it means more work and

One thing he latched onto quickly
though was that the best way to stop
moaning those leaky-pocket blues was
to stow away those spare sheckels in a
Savings account at “MY BANK”,

Don’t leave them in your jeans... lay
aside those extra beans!

 
     

U4-6

MOonTREAL

Te dE LTA

WORKING WITH UP TT IN EVERY ett OF LIFE SINCE 1817

 

Halifax Branch:

North End Branch:

to Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

>

JOHN A, HOBSON, Mgr.

JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mer.
CHARLES SMITH, Mer.

JAMES L, McGERRIGLE, Mgr.

rit! G
J 4,0 6 2.%@
A POOOOR*K)

T C

 

20 WOT STICK TO YOUR LIPS

   

eee a

 

ve

£

 
