   

 

   

 

 

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N. S., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1949

  

Common

 

  

Room
Dance

Sat. Night

 
  
 

No. 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 
   
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
    
    
 

 
   
  
  
  
  
  

  

cont) in Last Event of Initiation

Last Friday evening the Fall term of the Dalhousie
Inferior Court commenced, to try all cases of violations of
the Rules for Frosh which may have occurred during Initi
ation Week.

The first matter on the agenda was the swearing in of
the Jury of Impartial Upper Classmen. The jurors selected
were Peter MacDonald, Jan Robertson, Betty Cousins, John
Bowes, Ross Kenway, Estelle MacLean, Gibby Reid (Foreman), Barb Lohnes, Benny Goodridge, Dave Hess, Keith Alexander Fancey, and to insure justice, Doug Glendenning, a
Freshman, was also included. i Ne Sala etalancelie aetna

George Tracey and Sherman
Zwicker were the presiding judges.

The long delay and lengthy arguments usually a feature of
court trials was lacking as there
was conflicting evidence, all evidence being given by the prosecuting attorney. The sole question
put to the prisoners was “Do you
plead guilty or not guilty?” This
question was always answered
“Guilty”, as the attorney for the

Defence always spoke for the Pri
soner.

The first case to come before the
Court was Sophs V. Arnoff and
Medjuck. Arnoff was charged
with giving Dype Marshall a hot
foot. It was stated that prisoner
Medjunk had paid Gym fees for

_ the first time in six years.

The next case was Sophs V.
Jessie Forbes and Joan Holmes.
They were charged with playing
craps at Sheriff Hall. (In violation,

no doubt, of the unwritten law that

no Freshette shall enjoy herself

i 7 during Initiation Week.)

The case of Sophs V. Bennet and

| 7 Bagnell was the last to be consid
  
  

, ered.

Jim Bennet was charged

it. 74 " with calling down upperclassmen.

  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  

- Ansley Bagnell was charged with

the violation of the most import
ant of the Initiation Rules, “Frosh
- must obey all orders of upper
classmen”, It was alleged that the

3 . prisoner refused to push a peanut
_. to Truro with his nose.

The July found each of the pri_ soners guilty and turned them over

hs to the ene (Billy Roscoe)

C. O. T. C.

Fall lectures for Canadian Officers Training Corps commenced
last evening and will be held
weekly from now till Christmas.
All lectures are held at 7:30 p.m.
in Room 3 of the Arts Building and
for Second Year students are held
Tuesday nights and for Third Year
on Thursdays.

Maj. J. M. Cram will be contacting the heads of all Faculties in
the University and will try to address all students eligible to join
the C.O.T.C, this year.

THEERS REGAIN. STRIDE DEFEAT
TADACONA BY SCORE OF 20 to 6

Rcicnan In Full Flour

 

‘More Than 200 Dal Students Attend
Truro Game as Tigers Defeat Last
Year’s Champs In Unexpected Upset

Wings Scholarships
To be Announced

Airforce R.C.A.F. veterans -will
benefit again this year through the
generosity of Mrs. Forbes Angus
of Montreal. Due to her effort
Wings Club Scholarship will be
awarded once more. Fifteen of
these Scholarships were awarded
in ’48 and ’49, six for 150 dollars,
others 1,000 dollars.

During the war Mrs. Angus

formed the Wings Club in aHlifax.
This Club was started in the Nova

.|Seotian Hotel between the Hotel

proper and the Station. The Club
was designed as a “Travellers
Aid” to transient airmen where
they could get information, coffee,
and other services. A number of
Halifax ladies helped in this project.

After the war the Club was
closed and Mrs. Angus turned the
balance of the capital to Dalhousie.

It was decided to use the money
towards scholarships for Halifax
veterans. These are open to all
faculties and are awarded by a
committee from all faculties. The
basis for the awards is scholastic
ability with consideration also
being given to financial need and
war service.

The awards for the ’49-50 session will be announced next week.
The sum of money from which
these scholarships are drawn is not
an endowment but a capital plan.
When the money is used up they
will. end. This may be the last
year for the Wings Club Scholar
| ships.

 

Fifteen hundred eager spectators at Truro on Monday

witnessed the introduction of Canadian Football in this

Province outside Halifax.

The game was betw een Dal
housie’s Tigers and the Navy team, last year’s Purdy Cup

winners.

Two hundred Dalhousie students responded to

Dal’s win by conducting a snake dance through the streets

of Truro following the game.

Dances to be Held

In Commonroom

Arrangements for the first
Commonroom dance to be sponsored by the Arts and Science Society are now almost finalized.

Equipment at the dance will include a 21 watt high fidelity public address system and twenty-five
of the latest song hits on record.

The price of admission will be
85 cents per person for nonmembers and 20 cents for members. Dancing will be held from
9 to 12,

In addition to a gala evening of
entertainment, two valuable door
prizes will be offered.

Students registered in the faculties of Arts and Science who are
not already members of the Society and who wish to take advantage of the lower rates offered to
members may obtain Arts and
Science Society membership cards
at the door.

The first of these dances will be
held on Saturday October 15th.

Notice

DRUM MAJORETTES

Co-eds interested in cheer leading or positions as Drum Majorettes please contact Ted Rowntree
at Band Practice i: in the Gym,
Thursday at 12:30.

 

 

_—_——.

Dr. Kerr Announces Appointment of Six New Lecturers
To Staff as Arts and Commerce Faculties Are:Increased

The president of Dalhousie University has announced the following appointments in the faculty of
arts and science:

James H. Aitchison, Eric Dennis Memorial professor of government and political science. Professor Aitchison is a graduate in arts
and education from the University
of Saskatchewan and holds the
degree of bachelor of science from
the University of London. He has
had considerable experience as a
university lecturer in economics
and political science. He has completed his thesis for the degree of
doctor of philosophy in Toronto
University.

Harry Douglas Smith appointed
associated professor of French in
the department of modern lan
 

guages.

housie in 19389 and subsequently his
M.A. He received* his Ph.D. de
A native of Halifax he|
received his B.A. degree from Dal- |

 

Robert H. Vingoe, assistant professor of philosophy is a graduate
of McMaster University. For the
past three years he has been

gress at Laval University, Quebec.| studying in Toronto University,

Edwin P. Cohn, associate professor of -accounting and auditing
in the department of commerce, received his bachelor of commerce
from Dalhousie in 1937 and subsequently his degree of chartered
accountant.

Allan Rees Bevan as assistant
professor of English, graduated
from the University of Saskatchewan in 1939 and obtained his master’s degree in 1947 from the University of Manitoba. Mr. Bevan is

at present completing the require
ments for the Ph.D, degree,

where he has now fulfilled all the
requirements for the Ph.D. degree
with the exception of his thesis.

John Finliayson Grahm, assistant professor of economics, received his B.A. degree from the University of British Columbia with
first class honors in economics. He
received his master’s degree from
Columbia University, New: York.
He requires only the acceptance of
dissertation to complete the requirements for the Ph.D. degree.
The subject .of his dissertation is
“Criteria for the Exchange Rate
Adjustments”,

An enthusiastic crowd were by
no means dismayed by what they
saw. The game was one of the
best this season in the Canadian
Rugby Football League. A sleeper
play successfully executed by Paul
Lee and Andy MacKay added to
the colour of the contest.

The promoters of Canadian
Football in this province were
grat ified to see that the interest
was so great. A crowd of nearly
1500 spectators equalled if not exceeded the expectations of the officials,

It was a surprise win for the
Dal squad, already defeated twice
this season. Sparked by the efficiency of quarterback Paul Lee, the
team scuttled the Navy, last year’s
champions, to the tune of 20-6,

Two hundred Dal students packed into buses and cars to see the
game. Small as this number is, it
was greater than Student Council
President Art Moreira expected,
judging from the number of
tickets sold up to last week-end.

The students present were well
rewarded. for their interest. Overjoyed at Dal’s victory. they started
to snake-dance through Truro’s
crowded streets, holding up traffic
for one mile. The dance lasted an
hour, but did not come to an end
until the partakers had gone up
Main Street and through a
theatre,

First DAAC Meeting
Held Tuesday Morning

On Tuesday morning a meeting
of all boys interested in sporting
activities was held in the Dal
Gym.

The main purpose of the meeting
was to outline the various activities of the coming year. After a
talk from the physical director G. .
Vitalone, it was decided to form a
boxing team, and also a_basketball and soecer team. These sports
to be the main events for the season.

It was also decided that the
Council be asked to pass a law allowing only Sneakers or soft sole
shoes on the Gym floor, when playing games.

After the business, Bob Wilson
spoke to the boys, and outlined the
main points of the various sports,
after which the meeting adjourned.

  
   
   
 

 
ui: he

wae) - eertain principles.

BRICA'S ¢ OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER

wis
4

an ‘University Press

D “Published sie a week: by the Students’ Council of

} : ae ‘University.
necessarily those of the
| geri fe 3

in RE RED D LAMPERT

Opinions e:
Students’
Business, Ameen?

ressed are not
Youncil. For sub- .
Dalhousie Gazette,

“BRUCE LOCKWOOD

Page Editors

Sports
JOE LEVISON
PETER. MINGO

Features
MARG GOLBURGH
Photographers

ERIC RICHTER

BOB WOLMAN

Reporters

PATSY AHERN

JOHN ROBERTS

BENNY GOODRICH
| Re-write
LUCY CALP
Proof Readers

GLORIA HORNE

RONA YESS

WEDNESDAY, OGTOBER 12, 1949

COLLEGE SPIRIT

We type this editorial in the fervent hope that the stu
ent body will put a lie to it.

This column will be locked in

a! the press sometime this evening. Three days from now the

‘Tigers will journey to Truro for their first football game
ia with Navy—a very important game.

To date ONE ticket

has been purchased by a student (may he enjoy everlasting
_ happiness) for the return trip. How loud and hard can he
. cheer by himself? It’s lonely on a strange field when there

; he is. no student encouragement from the stands.
HMR: of Individualism and Self-Sufficiency it may be the accepted

In this age

But we’re old-fashioned and don’t expect a team to

Bile Gorty us by playing and winning a game, and supplement

_ their athletic endeavours by also cheering themselves on.
; Our concept of college sports life has always been based on

Tf you can play, play hard, clean and to

ee the best of your ability, and if you can’t, bolster the team
ia - with your cheers and fullhearted support from the sidelines.

We could be wrong. And this editorial could be in error.
At hope so.

e

UNITED NATIONS DAY

We

The General Assembly of the United Nations has set
oy October 24 as United Nations Day, to be celebrated the

- world over.

On this day, four long years ago, the ratifica
tion of the Charter had been deposited and the organization

: : - took form.

In a sense this idea of observation is a good one.

If pro
Rae Cann respected it will serve to remind the peoples of the

} a world that the United Nations is “the chief force that holds
a 4 the world together against all conflicing strains that are
pulling it apart.

SM Perhaps the observance of Remembrance Day and a
_ United Nations Day within a period of three weeks will serve

-. to awaken the nations of the world to the grave responsibility

A that is theirs and to a desire for lasting world peace.

WELL RECEIVED

bf No doubt the recent success of the ‘Halifax Opera
a School’s Don Giovanni was a relief to the Press Club, who

were sponsoring the performance and therefore responsible
financially for it, but it should also be a source of no little
rejoicing to the’ good burghers of this town.

‘Those interested in Music who are unfortunate enough
to have lived here for the last ten years have had to subsist
almost entirely on lesser concerts such as those performed
under the auspices of the Community Concerts, the Ladies’

Musical Club and, of course, our own Glee Club. These are,

excellent in their own way; the artists are good and in Dalhousie’s case, amateur performances are as good as any in
the country. But most people expect a city of a hundred
thousand souls to do just a little bit better.

There are disadvantages: Halifax has no good theatre in
which travelling companies could reasonably perform. Civic
enterprise has not yet*reached the point where a representative community groups undertakes to promote music and

the theatre.

But the first step has been taken with Mr. Vetra’s Don
Giovanni, and with the efforts of ballet schools last spring.
But not always will there be a private society such as the
Press Club available to assume the responsibility that should

rest on public shoulders.

Perhaps eventually we will have a theatre in Halifax,
and performances to put in it. Until that time comes we at
Dal are grateful to the Press Club and similar organizations
who sponsor the few good performances we are lucky enough
se see, especially if all will let students in for a quarter.

Letter to the Editors

1) Dear Sir: . 3
_ Upon my return to the campus

i he this fall, I noticed with pleasure

Ms that the book store was now the
Bie® “RO k s store. T pictured myself

p yping : quickly. into the store,
en minutes ree

with books for
courses.

Instead, I spent well over an
hour in there last Tuesday, and
emerged with not one piece of literature. Perhaps I’m taking the
wrong courses, or maybe I should

all of my six

have attempted to obtain my books

Professor

By DICK BAIDEN
(CUP) Staff Writer

KINGSTON, Ont. —
tactics of the United States Officials are a denial of the whole tradition of the western world since
Renaissance,” declared Dr. Glen
Shortcliffe in a statement given to
the Queen’s Journal this week. He
was commenting on a news dispatch from St. Louis which stated
that he had been denied admission
to the United States to accept a
post at Washington University.

Granted one year’s leave of absence from Queen’s to fill a position at the American university,
Prof. Shortcliffe applied for a
U.S. visa last May.

Following the arrival of the
visa last June, Dr. Shortcliffe
established legal residence in the
United States and then returned to
Canada. It was at this time, he
stated that the immigration department refused to readmit him
into the U.S. asserting that every
entry of a non-citizen is a separate entry and that Prof. Shortcliffe had therefore incurred a new
investigation.

No decision had been released by
the immigration authorities by the
end of July, thereby excluding any
possibility of Dr. Shortcliffe assuming his duties at Washington
University.

Commenting on these events, Dr.
Shorteliffe stated: “During all
this time, no specific charge has
been laid against me, nor has any
evidence been produced. In refusing to readmit me to my legal
residence -in the United States, the
immigration officer contented himself with stating that I was suspected of having ideas inimical to
the public interest of that country.”

“The fact is, as the U.S. officials are fully aware, that I have
been a strong critic of Communism and of the Soviet Government,
some of whose policies I described
in a coast-to-coast broadcast on
the C.B.C. as the “cruel stupidity
which is the ultimate logic of the
totalitarian mind”. But I have refused to join in an equally stupid
campaign of hysteria which seeks
to divert attention from our own
social inadequacies by blaming
them on a conspiracy in the
Kremlin.

“Moreover I have strongly criticized some aspects of an American
foreign policy, whose failing in my
opinion, have been eloquently demonstrated by recent events in
China.

“Tf these criticisms are offences
affecting my admissability into
the United States, I not only consent to plead guilty, I insist upon
doing so. I would not now go to
live in that country if I could; I
prefer to remain in the free
world.

The United States government
has the same right as any other
government to run any kind of
country so long as it can secure
the consent of the population; but
it has no moral right to continue to
advertise that country as something that it is not.”

The order barring Dr. Shortcliffe stated that he was excluded
temporarily “as a person whose
entry is prejudicial to the interests
of the United States”. Dr. Shortcliffe has been persuaded to resume his teaching at Queen’s this
fall despite his previous intention
of going to France to engage in research work.

earlier, but I cannot help thinking
that there must be others in the
same situation.

I appreciate the University’s
efforts to give better service in
their book store,’‘but now that better space arrangements have been
made, some attention should be
directed to the prime purpose of the
store—the sale of books.

Hoping I won’t have to get
through all my courses on some-one else’s books, I am,

Yours truly,

“The smear

EXPORT

“The sign of a good
meal”

&

407-409 Barrington St.

Class Jewellery

Its not too early to plan the
class order of rings and pins.

Birks Contract Department
will be glad to assist with designs and special prices for
group orders.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

a eee) FINEST
CIGARETTE

Dal Off Hours

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

Maritime Business College
73 College Street

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
seven courses are admitted as General Students.

The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursday
7.30 to 9.30.

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years

Enter any day. Tuition counts from date of Registration.

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering
®

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

DARTMOUTH, N. S.
79 Upper Water St.

HALIFAX, N. S.

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:

Bachelor of Nursing Science

Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of Science

Diplomas in:

Hospital Pharmacy

Mining Geology

Music

Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

of Arts
of Commerce
of Education
of Music

Bachelor
Bachelor
Bachelor
Bachelor

Education
Engineering
Engineering Physics
Food Technology

The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments
THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B,

THE racuLy OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting d
; g diplomas in P
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration _

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS
Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00
students applying for admission from Hiek Schecke or Fane

Colleges of the Maritime Provinces, and
of educational attainments, ; awarded on the basis

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full info
courses, residence facilities, and dates of okie on

 
  
   
            

Campus Roundup

by Windy O'Neill

  

if d nie
Ty
a

eT
.

  
     
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 

  
  

ic When Sir Baffled Gripes devalued the pound, Dalhousie had to act.
Here; we have the devaluation of the pounding—the freshmen pounding
called by the more literate “initiation”. This follows the gradual
ey decline in what may be called the severity of initiation. Last fall,
there was a great deal of indignation over some of the rules being cut
a from the Frosh programme but a compromise was reached. The result
was a fairly enthusiastic first year class,

toate * * * *

a.

ss However, as the old ladies (who may die some day and probably
leave us some money) are still complaining about how terrible the poor;
: young girls look with paint on their faces (spread all over instead of
being concentrated at strategic places), the paint had to go. Next
year, in the hazing, upper classmen will be confined to nahsty looks.
a Aa * * * * .
Paes p “Initiation has its place in college life and it has always been sengible here, While we are cutting down, McGill’s bringing hazing back.
5, Classes tltat are well initiated remain full of the old college spirit. Did
you notice how subdued the frosh were at last Saturday’s game? As
the Tigers were battling desperately against insurmountable odds, our
\ stands were about as enthusiastic as the local branch of the WCTU
Behe singing the Beer Barrel Polka. The Senate Committee should know
4 what they are doing, but they can make a mistake. We think they are

doing just that in this matter.
mae . . , fl

 

People in the know are really impressed with the way the affairs
of the Halifax Canadian Football League are being administered—

except for the ten yard markers which break twice a quarter. The
| two preeminently in charge answer to the noble names of Ham Robingon, the President, and Gordie Rollo, the Secretary. The two have a
great love for Canadian Football and are determined to put the game
over. When the question of charity tickets came up, they quelled)
objections to diminution by suavely announcing that henceforth all
members of the exacutive would pay their way in like anyone else.

* * * *

Except for the ten yard markers which break twice a quarter, the
weekly Saturday football matinees have become a real earnival. Last
week there were two bands in attendance and a closely contested
bicycle race. This week will see fan dancers; a Dal win should provide a carnival in itself. Congrats to Wanderers who came up with a
band and some ch-ch-cheerleaders (sweaters and everything). However

we still have the ten yard markers which break twice a quarter.
* * Be *

>

Tha football displayed this year is vastly improved from
other seasons—the ten yard markers which break twice a quarter have
not changed. Many fans are worried whether the light, young Dal

Tigers will stand up against the competition. Our opinion is that the
Cats will be in there at the finish. Duke Morgan’s two hundred and
ten pound frame will blast great, gaping holes in every line in the
league.
; * * * *

Donnie Harrison hasn’t untracked himself as yet but should be an
all star by the end of the season. Young Tom Stacey showed well as
did Paul Lee until they both acquired sawbone appointments. We are
looking for a double win this week.

FRESHMEN

Graduate with a degree from University and a commission in the Royal Canadian Army, Permanent or
Rerserve.

  

 

 

Four months training every summer for two or three
years to develop a healthy body, an alert mind and the
quality of leadership.

 

Army pay, to assist the financing of university courses,
at $153 per month with lodging, board, clothing, medical care, and travelling expenses during the summer
training periods. ya

 

The opportunity of meeting and exchanging ideas with
your fellow students from all Canadian Universities. .

THE QUOTA FOR 1949-50 IS LIMITED
GET YOUR APPLICATIONS IN EARLY

Come in and talk this over with
MAJOR J. N. CRAM

Contact at C.O.T.C. office — Dalhousie Gym

or

Phone at one of the numbers listed on C.O.T.C.
Bulletin Board in the Gym

 

 

—_=

y)

f }
ree PLL Nh
tiles
Bf * Fs"

|

BW eL

/
[

MMI

 

WALK ON THE SENIoK WALK,

Ky, (INE and Ke aion
7

You’ve all heard of Sartor Resartus?

(To its study you surely must cart us),
Well, they’ll tell you in class

It is meant to surpass

The logic of Goethe or Schiller.

But don’t you believe it, young feller:

Old Thomas Carlyle raved of clothing

But his own could bring nothing but loathing.

 

The moon was high, the lights were low,

The sky a sea with ships of snow.

The air’ was spring and -how the breeze

Soft blew its whispers through the trees!

And we were sitting in the park

Her lips looked soft, her eyes were dark.

Desperately I asked her: “Please?”

She said: “I think I’m going to sneeze!”
—A.J.

 

 

On the Making of a Paper
On the Breaking of a Staff

Proud and noble forests cover the length and breadth of |
Canada, supplying supernal beauty and wealth to the nation.
Every year, a significant portion of these forests is destroyed, cut into logs, into pulpwood, torn to shreds and made |
into paper. Every year, a significant portion of this paper is |
wasted by being unfortunate enough to occupy a place in’
many of our daily newspapers and college journals.

Daily confronted by
inane tubthumping

|
Sebo tenis qm ; |

we are

mumblings; Come on Students

politics; prejudiced nonsense; ad- Ride In The Best |

jectives extolling the nonentities,
3-S TAXI SERVICE

the inept, and the nothings; stale
news events and uninteresting inPhone Phone ||
3-7188 © 3-7188 ||

terviews with bilious notables.
LARGEST FLEET TOWN

 

Such unappetizing fare is usually
due to a lackadaisical staff, and
overworked staff, or a staff suffering from both maladies.

IN

Nowhere more than in the newspaper world are SPACE and TIME
more important; RUSH to
the deadline, RUSH to find copy
with which to fill the paper.

The Gazette is no exception,
even with its two issues a week.
Every member of the staff is also
a student, with his studies making
a strong bid for his time.

Compliments of
meet |

JOE and TOM |

Diana Sweets
Tea Room

The students recreation centre

 

Whosoever, then, would criticize,
let him first offer his help. Short
stories, poems, cartoons, news
items, articles of interest of any
nature whatsoever are all welcome
contributions. With a large fund
of top-notch material on hand, a

 

Meet Your Friends at

Riviera Restaurant

THE

 

consistently good Gazette could be 85 Spring Garden Road

issued twice a week, the staff
being able to pay more attention to
quality rather than quantity.

This is an appeal to those who
would like to see on the Gazette’s
masthead “North America’s oldest
and BEST” college newspaper. At
the very least, let us try to prevent our forests from having submitted to the axe in vain... let
their poor, flattened out carcasses
be the bearer of readable, intelligent, interesting material. Won’t
you send in your paper brain-child
right away?

Full course meal now served.

Open
8 a.m. to 12 Midnight
280 QUINPOOL ROAD

Specializing in steaks, chops,

  

Page Three

United Nations Day
To Be Celebrated

The General Assembly of the
United Nations has set aside Oct.
24th as United Nations Day, to be
celebrated all over the world. On
this day in 1945 all the ratifications of the Charter had been deposited and the United Nations
came into being.

The United Nations serves as the
meeting place where the nations
of the world can come together and
work out their problems and find
mutually acceptable solutions. It
also has a world-wide social and
economic program for the betterment of living conditions in all
lands.

It is felt that the occasion should
be marked in educational institutions by some suitable observance,
for the United Nations is, as
Trygve Lie said, “The chief force
that holds the world together
against all the conflicting strains
that are pulling it apart.

 

COTC Locus
Resume Tuesday

C.O.T.C. lectures in the second
and third theorectical phases will
commence this week. These lectures will be given by Major J. N.
Cram, who has charge of cadets
from. Nova Scotia Technical College and St. Mary’s College. All
cadets are requested to attend,

Lectures in the second theoretieal lectures will be held in the
same place at the same time on
Thursday, Oct. 13.

Arrangements are being made to
contact prospective candidates for
this year’s intake. Anyone wishing to contact Major Cram should
look at the notice board in the
gym.

OXFORD

“FAMILY

HONEYMOON”
AND
“LIFE WITH RILEY”

Mon. - Tues. - Wed.

 

“YELLOW SKY”
AND

“IDEAL HUSBAND”

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.

 

 

“The Students’ Drug
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and

Sundries, and for unexcelled
Snack Bar and Soda Fountam
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

 

CASINO

presents

J. Arthur Rank’s

“CHRISTOPHER
COLUMBUS”

MON. through SAT.

Announcing

EVANGELINE RESTAURANT

New Management Policy

Meal Tickets: $5.50 for $5.00.
salads and fountain service

Daily

 

 
     

==

=

  

 

*

Sa une alkene een ke epee

= SS SS eee
rH 2

in eel

 

*

 

TIGERS SHOW REAL POWER Tigers ‘Take A
IN ENGULFING STADACONA Drubbing From

The explosive power of the Dalhousie Tigers 1949 Canadian football squad burst right in the face of H.M.C.S.
Stadacona as the Bengals celebrated Thanksgiving away

from home with a rousing 20
It was veteran quarterback Paul
Lee who burst the Navy bubble
with a touchdown in the first minutes of the game. A recovered
fumble in midfield gave Dal the
ball. McKay passed to Stacey at
the 10 five plays later to set up the
TD which Lee tallied, scooting
around right end on a bootleg play.

In the second canto Navy got
close enough for Ed McLeod to try
a field goal. The shot was wide of
the posts but rolled out of touch
and the score was 6-1.

However, the Bengals wanted
another TD before the half and
they got it on the sharpest play of
the game, a sleeper with Andrew
McKay taking off from the Stad
54, cradling a Wilson bullet on the
85 and racing to the 15 before being smothered. Big Duke Morgan
bulled the ball to the 9 and Lee
again carried the ball around
right end on the power play

Opening up in the third quarter
Bobby Wilson, a gent who played
sixty minutes of durable football,

 

6 whitewashing of the Tars.
got off two of his outstanding
punts of the day for a pair of singles, both kicks travelling well
over 50 yards from scrimmage.
14-1 for the Tigers.
One Defensive Leak

The Tigers played a queer game
in the fourth quarter. Navy scored first downs almost at will in
mid-field but at the Dal 25 they
stopped cold on all but one try,
when McLeod» passed to Agnew to
put the ball on the 15, Murray
and McLeod took the break and
squeezed the leather to the seven.
Murray finished off with a wide
buck right and TD. The convert
pass was blocked.

Before Navy could take up
where they left off the Tigers
were off again. Starting from

eenter big Duke Morgan, fronted
by Jones carried the ball six consecutive plays for three first downs
to move the ball into scoring position. Malloy finished off with a
buck left to score and Nickerson
wrote finis

 

pees

Tough Luck George—Agnew of the Navy squad leaps up to catch

the pass and foil the intercepting

Mattison in last Monday’s thrilling game at Truro.

 

efforts of Dal’s George “Ejection”

English Rugger Squads to Make
Debut Today with the Axemen

Dalhousie’s English Rugger
teams take the field this afternoon
in the opening games of the Halifax and District leagues, senior
and intermediate, at the Wanderers Grounds. The opposition are
the Acadia Axemen. The Tiger
Cubs meet their Wolfville counterparts at 1:30, with the senior game
scheduled for 3:00.

Tiger coach George Gray is
pleased with pre-game practices
and expects to field a winning
squad. Several newcomers are in
the Dal line-up, among them Ron
Robertson, lock, a rugby union man
from England; Roddie Morrison,
stand-off, last year with Glace
Bay; Gordie McCoy, left center, a
key man from Mt. A.; and Doug
MeDonald, fullback, back with the
Tigers once more after an absence
of a year.

 

         
  
         
     
   
         
     
 

Two of Canada’s
Great Newspapers

The Halifax

Chronicle-Herald
AND

The Halifax
Mail-Star

ALL THE NEWS
ALL THE TIME

Circulation Over
100,000 Daily

   
  
  
   
  
  
 

   
   

  

  
  
   
 
  
   

   
 
 
  
  

Powerful Reds

Last Saturday was a bad day for
the Dal Tigers—in fact the worst
since the school took up Canadian
football.

In the gloom of Sunday, |

BE GALS BACK “WITH :

 

before the startling Thanksgiving |

Day revival the 16-6 trimming the
Bengals absorbed from the Wanderers loomed large with a playoff spot away in the distance.
Although they stayed even with
the Redmen in the first
things collapsed in the second
frame as the heavy Wanderers line
pushed the cats deep into black
shirt territory. The winners
started festivities with Pete Feron,

playing his best of the year, kicking a safety from the 30. The

quarter |

Tigers, taking the ball on their 26 |

couldn’t get the leather past center

| field, and the lethal combination of

Graves, Young and Feron, plus

superb line play enabled the Wanrs to take possession and drive
deep.

dere
the ball

  
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
   
 
  

 

ERT VES

Another
just makes the end zone to score the Tigers’

Paul Lee Gets TD—Paul Lee,
back,
in the Dal-Navy game.
the points register
defense from the play.

Andy McKay,

[It was Lee’s best performance this year.

A HANDY REFERENCE BOOK ON
COMMON METALLURGICAL TERMS

The International Nickel Company of Canada, Limited
invites students planning or preparing for a career
involving the use of metals to write for this valuable
reference book. ‘This 32 page book entitled “The Technical Editor Speaks...” contains a series of one-page
articles. These articles explain the practical meanings
of technical words that are used in
measuring the mechanical properties
alloys neh as

describing and
of metals and
stress-strain, impact strength, Curie

point, elastic limit and thermal expansion.

SASS we, sh

 

wie rene)? eats Vet wrap eure
oor aoe ae
Puasa

Written by the Development and Research Division of The International Nickel C ompany, the purpose
of the books is to assist students and others interested in learning how to appraise the various properties

It will be

of metals.

valuable as a permanent reference ook on metal terminology.

It is available

without ¢ ‘harge and will be sent on receipt of the coupon below.

iS

coco

 

THE INTERNATIONAL NICKEL
COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED,
25 KING ST. W., TORONTO

r

Gentlemen: Please send me a copy of the booklet entitled
“The Technical Editor Speaks ...”

ee CAD

OOOEEEE ERED ENR EEROOTO RENEE TENET EEN DD OEREHUR IDES EEE HETE EET ES CRT EEE EREESER PETES ES ESESESESEESSSRSSEPESTDEROES FEET EROS EN EGR ORE ES CONS OESOE CO

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

—_—_—_—$—$ — —$——————————————————

 

Dalhousie’s star quartersecond touchdown
lateral man on the play, watches
while the goalposts block part of the Stadacona

 
 

  

i IS se dm ee

4 
~

$
a

0

A

ca

~

Gee ee ee

I aesemy

“
4 i
I

 

 

 
