 
  
 
     

  

    
  

 

i
[ YY

a

 

4

;

I

*

 

REUNION

1

-—_

NOVEMBER

p Saeh
WEEKEND

Br: aes AY
DS

ees a
BEF)
: : 5 Fl

 
  

ret ay r"
oa ee +: -*
‘alg

  
  

AT URE PRES

eee ) pais

  

 

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N. S., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949

Howd YA LiKE To @o
TO THE Foot BALL QRame

SHEIK (2).”oF

 

HEH - HEH cumie 2

pALHOusIs |
VINT AGE

"7

| Club Program for Coming Year

Features “Othello”,

Another successful season is
being planned by the Dalhousie
Glee and Dramatic Society. The
first Presentation will be the
Alumni Show—a one act play,
choral and orchestral selections,
group and solo singing, and group
and solo instrumental numbers,
presented during Alumni Home-|
coming Week in November. The
next productian will be the
Shakespearean tragedy Othello,
early in February. In the latter
part of the same month, they will
present the Gilbert and Sullivan
Operetta, “The Pirates of Penzance” which is being practised at
the present time.

Any student wishing to take
part in the Choral, orchestral,
dramatic or stage crew work

should watch the Glee Club bulle- sity in Canada.

tin boards.

The Glee Club activities will
wind up at the end of the season
with the presentation of one-act
plays in the annual ‘Connolly
Shield competition. This has been
very successful in the past, All
societies on the campus are invited to enter a one-act play in
this competition.

The Glee Club is fortunate in
having as director of the chorus
and orchestra (Professor Harold
Hamer, formerly of Mount Allison
University.

The officers of this society for
the coming year are: John Pauley,
President; Holly Fleming, VicePresident; Edith Hills, Secretary;
Frances Jubien, Business Manager.

Justice Read to Give

Series of Five Lectures

Justice John E. Read of the International Court of Justice and a
former dean of the Dalhousie Law
School, will give a special series of

five lectures on the subject “Some

Aspects of International Law”.
These lectures will be given in
the Munroe Room of the Forrest
Building beginning Monday, October 24, at 12:00. While intended
_ principably for Law Students, he
a pial will be open to students

 
 
 
   
 
     

 

>

)

Plays, Concerts

MissBurlton Addresses
Meeting on Europe

Helen Burlton, National Secretary of the Students Christian
Movement, spoke to a group of
about thirty students on her observations at a youth festival in
Budapest last summer. The meeting, attended by Dr. and Mrs.
Kerr, was held in. the Common
Room of the Men’s Residence
eight o’clock last Sunday evening.

Miss Burlton explained that she

has held her present position for)

two months in an executive group
at Toronto. This group oversees
the activities of the Movement
which has units at every univerWhen she is finished’ this job she plans to do missionary work,

The fourteen Canadian representatives at the youth festival
came into contact with many Communists. “These Communists,” she
said, “are gravely concerned over
education in Hungary.” The state,
not the church, now controls the
schools. Everything is uncertain.

Nationalism is lacking throughout Hungary. Canadians find it
hard to visualize such problems

(Continued on page four)

Sheriff Hall Scene of
Tea for Students

A tea for Dalhousie’s women
students, given each year at this
time by the Dalhousie Alumnae,
(Ladies’ Branch), was held Sunday
afternoon, October 16, from four
o’clock to six. Those receivering
were Mrs. Frank R. Duxbury, vicepresident of the Alumnae, Mrs. T.
Laurie, Miss Mary C. Mowat, Warden of Shirreff Hall, and Miss Isabel Russell, House President.

The tea-table was attractively
decorated and those who assisted
in pouring during the afternoon
were Mrs. H. L. Scammell, Mrs. J.
R. Longard, Mrs. H. A. MacDonald, Mrs, C. B. Havey, Mrs. J. E.
Richardson, and Mrs, C. L. Bennet.

 

at |

 

‘the seience
|
spend two summer terms, each of

}

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
COUNCIL LAUNCHES

SENTATION. 10 BE “OTHELLO” —

ALUMNI
REUNION

  
   

      
 
    
   
 

NOVEMBER
1ith
WEEKEND

No. 5

FIRST HOMECOMING

 

On Saturday night the Arts and
Science Society held its first dance
of the season in the Common
Room of the Men’s. Residence.
Over seventy-five couples attended the dance,

The dance lasted from nine to
twelve. Recorded music was provided from a new public address
system, many of the latest hits being played. A spot dance was held
during the course of the evening.

The dance was only the first of
the projects on the ambitious
schedule of activities of the Arts
and Science Society this year.

Nurses to be Trained
In New Nursing School

The idea of collegiate nursing is
about twenty-five years old in
Canada and this year Dalhousie
has joined a growing number of
other Canadian universities in initiating the Bachelor of Nursing
Science degree. It is designed to
prepare students for the field of
general nursing in the hospital or
community and also to give a cultural and academic background.
Many different patterns of study
are practised in the various universities and Dalhousie’s will
amount to a combination of the
Bachelor of Science and the nursing degree.

The entire course will cover five
years, the first three of w hich will
be devoted to the science end of it,
the last two years will be given
wholly in hospital training. During
course students will

three months, covering the preclinical work, or as they are more
familiarly known, as probationers.
In these courses they will study
the principles and practice of
nursing.

On the completion of the B.Sc.
degree students will enter hospital
training for the last two years of
their course, in which they will
specialize more particularly in the
subjects usually given in nursing.
Due to Provincial government requirements students must have
completed thirty months of hospital training in order to be qualified to sit for the Registered
Nurse examination. On graduation they may enter any field of
nursing, as general and private
nursing or public health work.
They will not be able, however, to
teach without completing a postgraduate course.

Although the final details have
not yet been ironed out, considerable interest in the course is already reported and it should prove
a valuable one at Dalhousie.

Dean MacDonald to
Attend Conference

Dean V. C. MacDonald of the
Dal Law School
week to represent Dalhousie at a
North

will

American Symposium on

Legal Education to be held at the |

of. British Columbia.
At this meeting Dean MacDonald
will deliver a paper on “The Professional Aspects of Legal Education”.

University

leave this]

 

 

First Dance is Held eld Alumni HomecomingWeek- end
= By Arts and Science To Be Held Nov. Ilth to 13th

a ga
Featuring a three-day program

DEAN MACDONALD

of special events, Homecoming
Week will be inaugurated at Dalhousie beginning Friday, November 11. This special week, devoted
to Alumni who mish to return for
a few hours to their Alma Mater,
is expected to become an annual
institution.

The events will start off Friday
morning with registration of those
attending. Alumni are expected to
come to Dal from all parts of Canada for the special ceremonies.

On Friday afternoon Dal Tigers
will meet Wanderers in a Canadian
Football game. Friday evening a
special Homecoming Dance will be
held in the Dal Gym. It is expected that a large crowd will attend this function.

On Saturday the Campus will be
open for Inspection by the Alumni.
There will be an Alumni GetTogether with the professors. On
Saturday afternoon there will be a
ground hockey match and special
events. Saturday evening the
Glee Club will present a special
show consisting of a one-act play
and musical and choral selections.

On Sunday afternoon there will
be a university chapel service in
the Gym followed by a university
reception at Shirreff Hall.

This Homecoming is being directed by a special committee of
the Students’ Council headed by
Bernal Sawyer. Over 8,000 invita
‘tions have been sent out and num
erous replies have been
from Dal

received
Alumni in all parts of

The Deans of the Universities of | | the Dominion,

Saskatchewan, and Toronto, of)
Harvard Law School, and the Di-|
rector of the University of London Institute of Advanced Legal
Studies will also give papers.

Among other questions, the pos
sibility of a universal fee for admission to the bar will be considered.
Dalhousie is the only Law
School east of Montreal to be invited to this meeting and it is felt
that as a result of this seminar the
Dalhousie Law School will receive
greater recognition in the western provinces and in the United
States. .

The Chairman of this meet will
be the President of the University
of British Columbia, Norman MacKenzie, who is a former Dalhousie
student,

 

Notice

The Pre-Med Society will hold
its first meeting of the year in the
Chem Theatre at 7:30. After election of officers there will be a diseussion period followed by the
showing of films. ,

\time a Red Cross

 

Herald ‘Adie Errs in
Red Cross Clinic Story

This morning the Halifax
Chronicle-Herald printed a picture
of Acadia students giving blood in
the Red Cross Blood Donor Clinic
which visited the college last week.
It was claimed in a cut-line under
the picture that this was the first
Blood Donor
Clinic had ever visited a Canadian
university.

Last week the Chronicle-Herald
published a news story to the same
effect.

The first Canadian university to
be so visited by a blood donor
clinic of the Red Cross was Dalhousie University, where such a
clinie was held last year.

No slight is intended to the Acadia students, over 300 of them,
who so generously gave of their
time and their very life-blood to a
worthy cause, but credit should be
given where credit is due and Dalhousie should be reeognized as the
first Canadian university to be
visited by a Red Cross Blood Donor
Clinic,

 
  
 
 

 
  
  

ae a week ue the Students Gouin of
University. Opinions expressed are not
those a the Students’ Council. For subwrite Business Manager, Dalhousie Gazette,
* S,.;

 

agi St p . _ Editors-in-Chief
| LA} PERT BRUCE LOCKWOOD
_ Business Manager

_ ALFRED HARRIS

Page Editors

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

*

c | _ Sports
LES MACINTOSH JOE LEVISON
or Pe NEWCOMB BLOOMER
Sanat Depts Features
ALERIE CATO MARG GOLDBURGH
. Photographers ;
- -BRIC RICHTER BOB WOLMAN
_ Reporters
J N PATSY AHERN JOHN ROBERTS
Mel UNIS NOEL GOODRIDGE BARBARA McGEOUGH
pee MACDONALD BETTY LIVINGSTONE
Cartoonist
Bk | BEATRICE MACDONALD
Mi ne sign at ‘ Re-write
ny As ‘ Hated LUCY CALP
Desa Proof Readers
AN Hee Goria HORNE  RONA YESS

  
 

'
“,

ti TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1949 No. 5

. OLLARS TO QUARTERS

ollege newspapers throughout Canada have recently
feature BLOries on the drastic financial cuts which de
 

  

EG et Acadia asada: ran hiadlities saying “Budget

_ Down; Universal Fees Up”. The story with them told of a

Hs a ‘SI rall ‘student body, and the raising of student fees by five
( hare Acadians now contribute thirty dollars yearly to
their Council.

      
    
     
  
  
   
  
      
   
     
   
   
     
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
    
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
   

Ao) heat McGill, The McGill Daily printed a story headed

“) einanciad Backing Tight Campus Clubs Are Advised’, and

in a recent editorial, the statement was made that the bud
ets of student organizations had been “slashed’’. Although

the President of their Council took exception to the use of

Mien ae word, he did admit that budgets would definitely be
tighter, and spending more closely controlled.

_ Even at the University of British Columbia, with an

os a | enrolment four times the size of Dalhousie’s, the Ubyssey

ai an told of the introduction of an “austerity budget” by the
se i students’ Treasurer.

Pi All this goes to prove that the Dalhousie Students”
\q a Council is not alone in its tighter control of budgets. But

ig even with this tighter control, no student activities have been
iS | Pe cut, Economy has been enforced—not austerity.

ye Tf anyone should still believe that tighter budget contr ol
iG on Dalhousie is an ill omen, there are other facts to be cona ny sidered. Dalhousie is definitely in the class of a small colHi a Ke Bac Yet she maintains student activities comparable with
fay! larger universities. And a college, whether large or small,
bh ine that plays—for example—football, still has only one team.
pe Further, even though the expenses for teams in a large and
nls, a a small university may not be equal, certainly the expense in
io i. | ae ee small university is greater in proportion than that in the
caer.

ti yi And there’s more yet. Dalhousie students pay one of
Me ‘the lowest Council fees in Canada. Dal’s enrolment has
— dropped less in percentage than those of most other Canamai - dian universities. And finally, this college has yet to see the
_ greater portion of the children of those who increased the
population of Halifax from sixty to one hundred thousand
during the last ten years.

  

wie All in all, Dalhousians have much to be thankful for.
ee . And even though we may have to watch the quarters, not the
. i aia otk this year, student activities will not be curtailed in
. tae fe stizhteat

_ UNBIASED OPINIONS
pac The first of Miss Fisher’s articles is appearing in this

ace and it is hoped that it, and subsequent reports, will
ae the attention they deserve.

Ras __ The idea of the International Students’ Service contrihe “s buting funds in order to send a few students to Europe has
been misconstrued by many. These travels are not in the
nature of “free trips” for one or two privileged students.
he) real value of these excursions is, of course, not the
portunity for the students involved to see Europe, but from
e benefit we all derive from independent and unbiased acNy 4 of conditions abroad.

~ Most of the similar trips reported in newspapers are
t ‘those of civil servants or public people who cannot express
srivate opinions publicly. But in the students who travel
annually from this continent to Europe we have a constant
jpource’ of information, which is unbiased and authoritative.

ih oe we should have such information few people will
. There is no ae in the country which can better

| rve fo a en eo ased propaganda than a well-informed

« s of stuc ents. There is no other group which can obtain
natio on regularly and dispense it as widely. It is

   

 

 

 

‘108 ay that we Bhoute do this, |

 
 
  

 

Sunday, October 16 (Lord’s Day)
—Blessed be God, I am returned
safe and well to the college on the
hill, although my old trouble is returning of late and I am not the
man I was. I see all is much the
same at the college on the hill,
with the deans and teachers as
well-fed as ever.

On my arrival, to the office of
the Spectator (early edition) where
all was gloom and dismay. It appeared that by a new decree e
senatu the initiation of new scholars had been sadly curtailed. I
did ask of one Bobsdaughter why
he thought ‘initiation necessary,
and he replied: we must initiate
them into the mysteries of their
studies, the rotten crums! I to the
Gym Inn with no sympathy for
these initiators for everyone knows
that there is no mystery to anything they study.

At the Gym Inn I did find gloom
also, and consternation, with
scholars gathered about with long
faces. The landlord, one Dead| wood, did tell me that their favourite drug from the Indies, fivecentcoffee, was now no longer sold by
a new decree e senatu. Scholars, he
told me, must resort to a nearby
den of low degree where a similar
drug, tencenteoffee, was sold at
much dearer prices, Indeed, if this
den be the establishment of the
Sour brothers the quality of their
prices is higher than their coffee.

Later home,.where I did_ sit
alone, for my wife, toothless now,
is still pursuing me in the colonies
whither she thinks I fled from the
harpies of Marmalade Hovel. The
old soak!

Monday, October 17— Up early,
and to the college on the hill,
which is also called Studlee by reason that it was once a simple lee
where they did bring horses. There
was great discussion of the merits
of these jousts, some speaking of
the Grand Old Game and some of
the new Colonial Game.

For the Grand Old Game was
one called Union, still played in
the Empah and much venerated,
but not played here. For there |
arose revolutionaries who cast
down the Grand Old Game and set
up a game called League, which
was neither Old nor very Grand.
And still later an Trishman, said to
have fled from the late Duke of
Wellington, set up the MYAU
which set up another game, which
is that now played. And so, I did
explain to this Grunt, some vames'!
are a little Grand and some very
Grand and some not Grand at all. |
By the same token some are somewhat Old, some Most Old, and
some New, and so forth. I would)
have told him more, being anxious |
to instruct those who seem genuine in their wish to learn, but he
left, muttering in his beard.

This did put me in mind of a day
last week, when I did journey to |
the old Town of Truro to consult a
learned apothecary, very skilled in
the preparing of a new drug,
screech, which I find very beneficial. To the town came also scholars and many sailors, to a field
where the scholars did array themselves against the sailors and a little ball was produced at which
they kicked until one gathered it
up and ran. But he did not run
fast enough, and many leapt upon
him throwing him to the ground
and he was borne from the field.
Then a little man named Plee took
up the ball and ran until he fell
down, and all stood up and shouted, and they kicked at the ball
again. Then a _ sailor named
McQuiet took this ball, and all
formed a line facing him, and he
ran hard against this line and was
borne to the ground as all beat
upon him,

Then the little man Plee threw
gnc on te are e

   
 
  
 
 

  

 

 

 

    
 

 
 

 
 
   
 

   
 

 
  
   
  

 
   
  
 

   

   
    

a

 

 

Two of Canada’s
Great Newspapers

ar NcINg
The Halifax S NIGHT” ee
Chronicle-Herald warren re
AND

The Halifax
Mail-Star

ALL THE NEWS
ALL THE TIME

Cireulation Over
100,000 Daily

 

Class Jewellery

   

Its not too early to plan the
class order of rings and pins.

    
 

Birks Contract Department
will be glad to assist with designs and special prices for
group orders.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited CANADA'S FINEST

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S. CIGARETTE
Halifax, N. S.

    
 

 
    
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
  
  

 

All Dalhousians Can

Eat Cheaply THE
ee GREEN LANTERN

Evangeline .
Restaurant The sign = a good
280 Quinpool Rd. ae

Full Course Meals 
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00 ®
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY 407-409 Barrington St.

8 a.m. - 12 Midnight

 

    
   
   

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering
e

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

 
 
 
    
 
 
  
   

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.
79 Upper Water St.

 
   
 
 
  
   
 

  
 
  
   
  
   
   

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:

     
  

     
  

  
 
 
   
    
  

   

Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Commerce Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Education Master of Arts
Bachelor of Music Master of Science

Diplomas in:
Education Hospital Pharmacy
Engineering Mining Geology
Engineering Physics Music
Food Technology Pharmacy

    
   
 
  
 

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

   
 
  
   
  
 

The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offeri ing Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments
THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE lt OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Public
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration \

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS
Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 available to
students applying for admission from High Schools or Junior

Colleges of the Maritime Provinces, and awarded
of educational attainments. ed on the basis

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full information as to fees.
seeenes, residence facilities, and dates of registration.

   
 
   
   
 

  
  

  

   
    
  

  
    
  
    

“ : J ) oa
5 ee ; si nig n fi LE) od hea 1d tee
bad. ; ae panghh oh xii A ny i Meta t Ae ‘4 “hi i - {

i Bae ‘
ey , wh i Bie) % a: if Lj Dali .

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  

  
 
  
     
  
 
    

  
   
 

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
   
   
    

 
    
 
   
   
     
   

 
      
 
 

 

 

 
  
 
    

    

: ; on ;
7 Cat :
' ¥ hc “or
7 2 = Ph
ie: i at ay
=
= e !vate
| f Ae. Wis Ps ied
J iy NITDSNT

lents) has announced th
p Vera

OU

ey P

— 
on that several activities

| ed to Carl Webber of Halifax. Mr.
‘ F _ Webber left Halifax for New York
cs ‘September 22, and sailed for
| LeHavre aboard the liner Ile de
| France, September 24. He has
_ taken up residence in Paris at the
__ Canadian House for university
3 students, where he will remain for
' the next ten months. Mr. Webber
inter ds to do advanced studies in

 
  
  
   
 

 
   
   

  

_ French history of the reigns of
| Louis XIV to XVI in preparation
(oae
> In 1948 Mr. Webber received his
_ B.A. from Dalhousie, and he completed his thesis for a Master’s de
_ gree in history this past summer.
For the past three years he has
been chess champion of Nova Sco" Py tia, and represented the province
«in the Dominion championships.
He has also been an ardent amateur radio fan, operating his own
“ham” station. As a member of
the Glee Club Mr. Webber participated in several production and
has been a well known figure on
the campus. —

a
miei 3

<a 
a

~
4 f
cs,
Pa
My

Compliments of

JOE and TOM
- Diana Sweets

Tea Room

The students recreation centre

  

Senn ee, amide
— >

eres act

the Canadian Army
Reserve.

ie Qo Wa

Pee is
iy
va
:

Columbia.

 

*

 
 
  
    
   
   
  
   
 
 

ut
bor
a
i.

:

n
Ls

Board in the Gym.

i? ’
‘ ‘

\
so apply early,
im Hs pe. pee

ike ie a

: if ,
‘ i eb | i ve Bes
ha i a 5
eT: + | . (ie A ~
: i ade | if > 4
1 hall a fh e ' |
: } P
hi le i Pe im
i . id

- Remember that the quota for 1949-50 is limited,

a!
be tnd
ten

Bah

:

0

- Students

S (National Federation of Canadian University
d the program of activities to be carthis year by its members im sixteen Canadian Unities. The program for the year is based upon the pro
well done are of more advant
> the students than a long program of ambitious pro_ jects that cannot be carried out in the manner that they de
The matter of Federal Aid to
Universities stands high on the
list of activities planned for this
year. Aid directly to the universities and help for needy students
are both included under this heading. Students of the NFCUS organizations of the Universities of
British Columbia, ‘Toronto and
Dalhousie will prepare a brief on
this subject to be presented to the
Royal Commission on Arts, Letters
and Science. This Commission begin sitting at Halifax in January,
under the chairmanship of the Rt.
Hon. Vincent Massey. The part of
this report referring to scholarships will be presented to the National Scholarship Committee,
headed by Norman McKenzie,
President of U.B.C. who is also on
the Royal Commission.

The Quebec Seminar will also receive attention from NFCUS members.
sponsorship of the University of
Montreal and is intended to promote Canadian unity.

Other projects will be an investigation into the high cost of University text books, lower air travel
rates for students and publicity
for the NFCUS organization and
its activities.

CHAPEL NOTICE

Chapel services are held every
morning at 8:40 am. in King’s
College Chapel, at the request of
Dalhousie Professors and students.
There is sufficient time to attend
these brief services. before the first
class, and it is a good idea to start
the day with a prayer.

NOTICE
Intra-mural basketball for girls
will commence on Oct. 19, at 1:30,
and will continue every Wednesday and Friday at the same time.
Beginners should meet at Miss
Evans’ office, for instruction.

 

;

 

 

| What Has
THE COTC
to Offer You?

1. In time of need to qualify for a commission in

— either as Active or

2. Three summers of four months training each at
full pay ($153 per month), plus board, lodging,
clothing and transportation.

8. A training that will fit in with your education,
whether general, technical or professional and
as well develop a healthy body, an alert mind,
and leadership qualities.

4, The chance to meet students from twenty-four
other universities from Newfoundland to British

*x * BS

_ 5. ‘Applications are particularly invited from Soph
| omores in Engineering, first and second years

_ Arts, Science, and Commerce—first year Law,
Medicine, Dentistry, and Phawmacy.

i Come and talk it over with the Resident Staff
| Officer—Major J. N. Cram

. at the C.O.T.C. Office in the Dal Gym, or Phone at
one of the numbers listed on the C.O.T.C. Bulletin

- Jand to bed.
~ iio, nee x 5 ate
ad MAM AR Ny goa SEs |
BR oes me RNC 8 pt
Yo i eye EN) Wat auae aE ab as) Ree jx

This seminar is under the.

a yt et ie j
re ety ) OC ait, afl J
ee ee oi yi wl f
) sled * § eal fj
‘ ve, Ui Th ee
VP Re hy aie ick
ag fash
seal’ pe 4 ]
’ ; : j i
eer me ld  ? a aS
‘i x] zy 7 , i
: a : , Fl
mt | t !

 

ef M A Bare Question:
‘Cheerleaders To

Have New Look?

The question now raging
about the campus is whether
our cheerleaders are to come
out in the “New Look’ or
whether their skirts will be
short, short. The concensus
appears to be (among the
male students anyway) that
short short skirts would be
suitable. They go on to explain that for financial reasons the short short skirts
would have the edge. The
Students’ Council budget has

many demands on it, and
longer skirts in the ‘New
Look” would be definitely

more expensive. When the
student body sees that the
cheerleaders, by wearing
short skirts, are trying to
spend as little as possible of
the Council’s meagre funds,
they will be more disposed to
cheer than if the girls spent
more than necessary and came
out in the new look.

Sam Peeps -(Continued from Page Two)
the ball away, but one caught it
and ran and there was much shouting. A great, hulking fellow named
Lessgain took little runs wherein
he hit many men and the scholars
moved down the field. One Willsdaughter took the ball, and looked
around and a youth came from outside the group and the ball was
thrown to him and he ran to the
other end of the field, and then
there was great running § and
shouting and finally a great multitude around the field shouted
very loud, and went away. I was

then alone in the field.

Later that evening there was the
sound of noise in the town, but being at the apothecary’s I did stay
there and pass away the evening
with him for he was a man of
much quality and skill.

Tuesday, October 18 — Lord,
Lord, what iniquity there is in this
world!

Today to Little Oxford for early
service, being devout of late, and
I did see a cleric, gowned and very
fat, instructing the novices in their
duties. “You shall not,” said this
fat man, “play at sports for the
college on the hill, nor shajl you
joust in their lists, for it is written

|that no Oxfordman shall do so.”

And he further told them of the
evil habits of these scholars at the
college on the hill.

I did not go to service, being
much incensed at this, for I have
seen their indenture and it states
that they shall indeed play at
sports for the college on the hill,
being members thereof, if they so
wish. In a great rage to the Lady
Hamilton, where I did sit long to
cool myself, talking great matters
of state with Will Hen, the politician,

That afternoon to a joust of the
scholars against those of Arcadia,
held at the field of the Meanderers. These Arcadians, who are
also called Appleknockers, are a
most ardent collections of yokels,
and did defeat the scholars most
badly. Some talk later of an expedition to quell them, but I have
studied the question and the foremost authority, (Pockle on Jungle
Warfare) states (At pp 9370 et
seq.) that these expeditions are
most difficult and costly, since the
natives are most elusive.

Later to the Gym Inn in company with Lightert of the Speectator (early edition), where I did
tell him of my escape from those
from Marmalade Hovel, which is
a most thrilling tale. Did there
hear also another amazing tale. It
appears that in Pine Hell Monastery there dwell the students at
divinity, who are a most gentle
lot. But one of these, whose name

} I did not catch, is a most unusual

divine. He, it seems, did descend
into the domestics’ wing and proceed to tear their beds, at which
they were most alarmed and fell
upon him in great numbers and
cast him into the showers. Much
amazed at these theologues, home

>

Se ae

besdattnilien's TA ie) 1 eh ct ee bed 2 Be AD Sy a) Nore ott

jaa.

AR eta

LAY AE
Tuo tS

ea ee tapes

CORY

he at

I. S. S. Seminar Stresses Theme of
‘The Individual and Society
Canadian customs, immigration officials, Holland Amer
gentlemen were the first indications that the time had actually approached to embark upon our voyage to “far away
places”. Quebec’s Wolfe Cove was the scene of all this
commotion, all this hustle and bustle.

After much patient queueing we finally crossed the gangplank
and set foot upon the SS Volendam which was to house us for the next
ten days. Our group of fifty Canadians soon found itself lost amidst
the one thousand five hundred American students who made up almost
the entire ship’s passenger list.

We found that our ISS seminar was only one among many other
projects taking place in various parts of Europe this summer. For
instance ... we found many students going to work camps to France,
Belgium, England and Switzerland to rebuild destroyed universities,
training schools and housing facilities, many were on organized study
tours, Trination tours sponsored by the NSA, university summer
schools and youth festivals. Others were merely on their own or in
small groups for the purpose of sight seeing.

Upon our arrival in Rotterdam we proceeded at once to Castle
Bouvigne just outside of Breda which is in the Province of North
Brabant in the southern part of Holland.

The formal theme of the Seminar was “The Individual and
Society” which was indeed the central point but from which many
divergent topics grew up. This was particularly so because of the large
number of students participating many representing different fields
of specialization. Therefore the lectures which were held in the mornings dealt only broadly with the topics intended, merely to furnish
basic material to be developed in the afternoon seminars and in our
own “bull sessions”,

Our professorial staff included Dr. Marcus Long and Dr. L. Lynch
from the Department of Philosophy of the University of Toronto; Dr.
A. R. M. Lower from the Department of History at Queens; Prof.
Bladen and Professor A. Brady from the Department of Political
Economy of the University of Toronto, Professor J. S. Corry from
Queens, Dean Carles de Koninck from Laval University, Prof. Shea
from Columbia and Turvey from the London School of Economies and
Professor J. W. G. Macdonald from the Ontario College of Art, and
Professor R. Beaudoin from the MeGill Law School.

The afternoon seminars, of which we were allowed to choose two,
were held on a very informal basis. They were usually composed of
about twenty students and were headed by one of the staff members
whose task it was to encourage debate among the group, to suwmmarize what had already been said and in general to keep the discussion
progressing. In some groups, one student each day was responsible
for presenting a paper as a short introduction to the discussion which
was to follow. The Seminars included the following groups: art, phil
osophy, economics, political science, mass communication, history and
various other fields.

Besides regular lectures we were also given the opportunity of
hearing several outstanding speakers, among them Andre Siegfried,
Dr, Brogan from Cambridge, Dr. Brugmans from Utrecht and Dean
Douglas from Queens. Furthermore, to round out our program we
were honored with a brilliant performance by the Hague String
Quartet, as well as several other well known musicians. A Dutch Student Amateur Dramatic Club from the Technical High School at Delft
brought us four charming plays done in excellent English. Wednesdays were usually set aside for trips which the entire group undertook, while the week ends were our own and gave the Canadians particularly a chance to do a little sight seeing.

Five weeks spent at a seminar of this type, in such ideal surroundings, with people from so many different lands, with such varied backgrounds and experiences, coming together with the idea of trying to
analyze and understand one another’s problems, to reason and not to
argue on prejudice makes it not impossible to consider that perhaps a
happier and brighter future lies ahead.

 

 

       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

Come on Students

Ride In The Best
3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone Phone
3-7188 = 3-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

“The Students’ Drug
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and
Sundries, and for wunexcelled
Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

914 Prince St. 
GAUVIN &
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS

Dial 3-8539

CASINO

and
BLUE PRINTING

8814 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

olga

“WORDS and MUSIC”

“SO EVIL MY LOVE”
Thurs, - Fri. - Sat.
“WHISPERING

SMITH”

and
“THE BOY WITH
GREEN HAIR”

 

MON. through THURS,
Dan DURYEA

“Johnny Stool
Pigeon”
8

 

Starting Fri.
Walt Disney’s

“Ichabod and
Mr. Toad’

Featuring CROSBY and
RATHBONE

ica Line passenger agents and many more important looking

 

  
     
: | ae :
Ny Mtge
5 i

q a

PROS AND CONS
BY JOE LEVISON

ara ce la: the skies, so sunny after the Truro revival Thanksgiving Day,
are gloomy with clouds from such places as Wolfville, Dartmouth and
ericton. What could have been a glorious week for the Tiger in
is, English Rugger and Canadian football ended in a fitful drizzle
turday afternoon at the Wanderers Grounds while H.M.C.S. Shearter eked out a 7-5 field goal victory over the. Bengals to complete the

__ fugger teams collided with Acadia’s Axemen and went down respec_ tivley 26-0 and 13-0. The Dal squads, the bulk of whose players had
only been out practising for just over a week were no match for the
ell conditioned appleknockers at that time. As well, a conversation
th a member of the senior team revealed that he knew only six or

Mi : "seven of the lads on his team and had to be introduced to the remain
i,
4

ing players before the game. Too, the rugger squads were feeling put
out not a little by their financial situation, which according to many
Py members of the team with whom this writer conversed Tuesday night,
allowed them little else but to go into the playing field with knotted

Joes Host: laces and shabby shirts.

THINGS COULD BE WORSE

_ Fortunately it has turned out that things are not quite as bad as
they were painted, not only re the budget, but with the teams as well.
. While it might have been an error to have begun the season with two
rugger teams, thereby spreading the experienced talent a little thinly,

tr

it
a
a

the senior and intermediate squads have lots of speed and weight

MINU

@

Congrats to Band

Congratulations are in order
to the members of the band and
the cheerleading staff who performed so well Saturday on
such short notice. The work
provided a big hit at half time.
Working in the rain and without practice the baton swinging

of Joan McCurdy, and the acrobaties of a two-man two- women gym team were well received.

Pry

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Harrison Makes Nicest Play of

Season to Score for Dalhousie

The Fighting Tigers, looking for their second straight
win in the Halifax Canadian Football League, were nosed out
by an able Shearwater squad 7-5 in the dying minutes of Saturday’s game at Redland Park.

The early part of the game saw Shearwater take advantage of a Dal fumble and move like an express train down the
field, only to run into a stone wall when the chips were down.
“Taff” Hullah, Shearwater’s flying wing, not to be denied recognition on the scoreboard, booted his team to a 3-0 lead.

 

| In the second quarter, Shearwater showed only a spark of its
first quarter brillianey, but. still
managed to boot a single point. At
this time it became apparent that
Dal’s aerial attack was more than
the Navy boys could handle.
Passing Attack Rained Out
The second half, however, was a
different story. Dalhousie’s laurels
rested on the arm of Andy MacKay, but Mr. Weatherman soon
changed that. Needing a new

J]

yA

A

rs
; Py
4 +
; ra as
'
‘ 7
4
iat
*_

.
ry

‘|
g

a

’
“

TES TO PLAY FOILS TIGERS .

nae where it is needed. Improved condition and hard practice together
will give Dalhousie two strong contenders for title honours by the end

of the month,

re ms And while on the subject of football, if supporters would remember

that regardless of what kind of football the teams play, they still wear

‘ the Gold and Black of the Maritimes’ leading university, possibly the
im clubs, and particularly the English teams could get some of the un
weapon, Dal called upon swivelhipped “Mud” Harrison. With 35
Yards between Dal and pay-dirt,
Harrison displayed his familiarity
with the raindrops in running the
distance for a T.D. through a soaked field. This proved to be the only

i
a

Tournament were teams from the

; Behe _ divided support they so richly deserve.

_ Defeat number three was suffered by the tennis team in the Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis Tournament held at the Cathedral Courts
on Friday. The loss marks the end of the era of superiority, the era
of the Blair Dunlops, Bill Moresides and Bill Popes. There were bright
spots though. Paul Lee played good tennis throughout. The mixed
doubles team of Heather McKinnon and “Skull” McCullough reigned
supreme in all their matches.

What do you have to do to win a football game??? That’s the
question that Dal supporters are asking themselves today over the
bicarbonate at Joe’s. The answer is, “Play sixty minutes of football”,
_ not 59 minutes, or more to the point 30 minutes. At Redman’s Park,
‘Saturday the Bengals suffered from a return of their old malady—
Start-too-late-itis.

The difference between victory and defeat was to be found in the
toe of “Taff” Hulla, Shearwater’s Lou Groza. The Taff, a former English Rugger pro, booted six of the airmen’s points on two field goals;
Ron Hayter, a Saint Pats High alumnus singled the other. All those
points and yet Shearwater-never got inside the Dal 25 yard stripp in
possession of the ball. Yessir, whaddya have to do to win a ball game?

The Tigers were ragged in the first quarter, yet played the pants
right off Burkhart’s boys in the second and third quarters to pull into
a 5-4 lead. Then a lapse in the fourth quarter for just four minutes
gave Shearwater and Hulla a chance for another placement and that
was finis. So Donnie “Mudder” Harrison’s magnificent 40 yard
seramble right through the entire Dartmouth team in the 3rd quarter
went for nought. Not only the field gem of the game, the run by Dal’s

. “Bermuda Bombshell” was the outstanding run of the season in our
estimation. It recalled memories of last year’s fateful final with Navy

in the downpour when the explosive Harrison drove the Tars crazy in
the last half.

However, the worst result of the game is the probable loss of
quarterback Paul Lee for the remainder of the season through a damaged cartilage. Paul was hurt in the first quarter,-and his loss was
felt throughout the game. So that unfortunately is that. Coach Vitalone has lots of material from which to develop a replacement, but the
experience and defensive ability of Lee can’t be duplicated in one

_ UNB Takes Maritime
Tennis Meet; Dal 3rd.
bas sh A strong University of New|

Brunswick team swept to an un
disputed victory in the annual Inteleollegiate Maritime Tennis

doubles, and went on to win the
men’s singles crown in the men’s
singles play-off.

Dalhousie placed third with a
total of two points, when Heather
MacKinnon and Bob McCulloch
teamed up to take the mixed doubles match.

Acadia and St. F.X. each gained
a point to tie for fourth place with
a semi-final win in men’s doubles
and St. F.X.’s semi-final win in
girls’ singles.

Professors Mercer, Aitchison and
Graham were referees, assisted by
Blair Dunlop. The trophy awarded was donated by Prof. A. C.
Cuthbertson of Mt. A.

The Cuthbertson Trophy was
presented to Fred Butland, Manager of the U.N.B. team, by Gabriel Vitalone, Physical Director of
Dalhousie University and supervisor of the Meet.

Tournament. Competing in the
University of New Brunswick, Ac_adia, St. F.X., Nova Scotia Technical College. The fifth team was
the Black and Gold from Dalhousie University, who played host
_ to the meet.
 U.N.B. teams accumulated a
total of eight points, having placed
first in men’s doubles, girls’ singles and girls’ doubles. The remaining two points were gained
through their wins in the semifinal men’s singles and mixed doubles matches.

N. S. Technical College placed
second with a total of three points.
They captured wins in the semifinals in men’s singles and men’s

yc; bee
ial
i r

BOYS MEET BOG—Bobby Wilson gets dumped after catching a pass
from Andy McKay in Saturday’s g
drizzle in the first half, and a downpour in the last, the field is soon
chewed up and footing treacherous.

on as the tackle is made.

DALHOUSIE WILL
TRACK TEAM TO

Four men will be wearing the
Black and Gold of Dalhousie at the
Track
U.N.B. Oct.
will consist of

Maritime Intercollegiate
Meet sponsored by
20th. The
Bill Haley, Keith Fancey, Harvey

team

Kolm, and “Dipe” Marshall.

Haley will be running in the 100
and 220 yd. dashes. Haley’s previous running was confined to High

School competition.

Fancy will run the hundred and
220 yd. dashes as well as competing in the broad jump, and hopstep-and jump. Chick is no novice
in these events, having competed
in them for the last three years.

Harvey Kolm, the third member |

of the team, will compete in the
440-yard run. A member of the
football team he is well conditioned

and should give a good account of |

himself.

“Dipe” Marshall
member of the team.

is the fourth

mile, A seasoned performer, par
ticularly in the mile which he ran |
in high school, Marshall should do |

well. In past years he has run for

Queen Elizabeth High School, The |

Wanderers Athletic Club and last
summer for the Navy. All mem
bers will take part in the 880 re-|

lay and possibly, the mile relay,

Miss Burlton -
(Continued from page one)

yet the Hungarians see them in
their true bitter form.

The church must have a ‘raison
d@etre’. It plays a small part in
economic fields. This is far too insufficient.

Christianity is OUR way of
life. Too many people feel that is
THE way of life. Christians invariably go wrong in taking this
latter point of view.

sth 4 ‘ ‘
PPI ii ee tis (eRe ft

UNB ON OCT. 20

He will com- |
pete in the 880 and possibly the|

major score of the game and Dal
now led 5-4, This appeared enough
to win, but a short lapse in the
fourth quarter gave Shearwater a
chance to move to Dal’s 25 Yard
line. With three minutes to play,
Hullah kicked between the posts,
‘| giving Shearwater the win 7-5.

Jolie Jannigan, as first string
snap, played outstanding ball for
Dalhousie. “Choo-Choo” Scanlon
played well for Shearwater, until
he ran into “our boy” Jolie,

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price

ame with Shearwater. Played in a
Murray Malloy and Gourley look

SEND SIX MAN

Soccer Team
Holds Meeting

A meeting of all Soccer enthusiasts was held in the basement of
the Arts Building last Friday for
the purpose of organizing the Dalhousie Soccer Team. About
fifteen students attended.

Manager Charlie King told the
| meeting that a Home and Home,
| total goal series with Acadia has
been planned, with the winner to
meet Mt. Allison for the Maritime
Intercollegiate title.

PLO
LO A
x <f pyr

= Yo

 

Practices are being held every
day at One-thirty P.M. the
Gorsebrook field, and as there are
still several positions open on the
team, all interested in playing
Soccer for Dalhousie are asked to
get in immediate touch with Mer.

on
King to see about equipment.

POL Say

J FD

 

cn
Meet Your Friends at KiKi $
THE

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

| Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

Phinneys Limited

456 Barrington St.

 

Where you will find a
complete Musie Service
and the finest
Sports Equipment

for Young Men ,°

 
