    
 
  

oo

a

aa
ee

es _ Ng FE pr eS, wh, Dri

   
  
  
   
 

‘o -*

ne =, ae, ree x
A se tg oe
er”. fey ae oe

a ' a A f

RET ARY

\

OF Cc

 

  

 

| DA LHOUSIE. GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N.

 

S., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1949

  

- SPEAKS AT DALHOUSIE

LS.

DANCE

IN GYM.

OCT. 28

 

No. 6

 

 

 

F Gedeles Executive to Assume Executive —
Direction of Maritime Debating League

Dalhousie will play host to 11 Maritime Universities avi
a Colleges for the forthcoming Maritime Intercollegiate De-| - bating League Convention, scheduled for Oct. 28 and 29.

The convention will draw up plans for the future year’s
work and will finalize dates for intercollegiate debates.

Further agenda will be submitted by the participating| —

universities.

Executive of Sodales, which automatically becomes the;
executive of M.I.D.L., includes Al Baccardax, president, Ken|  {

Coldwell, vice-president, and Alf Harris, secretary-treasurer.
Representing Dalhousie at the conference will be Dave Gra
ham and Dick Miller.

LawSocietyHolds
Annual Elections

~ Ata meeting of the Law Society
held last week in the Monroe
Room at the Forrest Building, elections were held for positions. on
the executive of the Society.

Slim Chisholm, third year law
student, was elected to the positien of President, while Foo Grant
and Jess Wentzell were elected
Viee- President and SecretaryTreasurer respectively.

Hee Pothier will be managing
the Society’s Interfaculty Football
team for the coming season and
George Louckes the debating.

Three students were appointed
to look after the arrangements for
the Law Ball to be held in the
Nova Scotian Hotel on November
4. They were Al. Trites, Bill
Pearson and Curly Wallace.

 

"To Late to Reverse Fate of China”,

Universities represented at the
conference will be Dalhousie,
King’s, *St. Mary’s, Pine Hill, Acadia, St. F.X., Mt. A., U-N.B., the
U.N.B. Law School, St. Dunstan’s,
and St. Thomas. Last year’s conference was held at St. Thomas
College.

The winner of the intercollegiate
debates held by M.I.D.L. meets the
winners of the debates held in
three other regions of Canada
under the Inter University Debating League. Winner of last year’s
debate was Acadia.

President andMrs.Kerr
Tobe AtHome toFrosh

President and Mrs. Kerr will be
at home to all new students in the
various Faculties of the University
Saturday, Oetober 22, 3 p.m.-6 p.m.
All students have been cordially invited to attend. The main purpose
of the “at home” is to acquaint the
President and all new students
with each other.

Different Policy Needed for Japan

A gathering of nearly fifty students heard an address

by David Lewis, National Secretary of the C.C.U.F.,
Munro Room of the Law School yesterday afternoon.

in the
Mr.

Lewis had been invited by the Dalhousie branch of the organization to speak to the students on matters of national and

international 1al importance.

Mr. Lewis stressed the need of

Comtaiitees Elected At | “destroying every trace of totalit
arianism and fostering democratic

Comm. SocietyMeeting| forces in Europe.

The first meeting of the Dalhousie Commerce Society was held
on Thursday for the purpose of
choosing a Social Coommittee,
elass representatives and sports
managers for the coming season.

Lloyd MacCallum presided, and
also occupying the platform was
Vice-President J. A. Blanchard. E.
K. Woods was elected Chairman

_ of the Social Committee consist
ing of Bill Firth, Bob MacColloch, and Alden MacLeod. The
sports manager, whose teams will
represent Commerce in the coming
interfaculty games were also appointed. They are Fred Laffin,
football; Roy Keefe, basketball,

bil es and Ted Emmet, hockey.

  

pee the course of the meet
When asked to state his opinion
on what should be American foreign policy in Asia, Mr. Lewis
stated that he considered it “too
late to_ reverse the fate of China”,
and hoped different policies would
be applied to Japan.

Mr. Lewis was introduced to the
gathering by George Loucks, President of the Dalhousie C.C.U.F.,
who was Chairman of the meeting.

 

ing it was decided that two students should be chosen to represent each ofo the Commerce classes
of ’50, ’51, "62 and °53 for this
year. Those elected were Tom
Power, Alden MacLeod, Jim
O’Keefe, Freeman Swan, Allen
Garselon, Maurice Foisey, Dave

-_—_

  
  

AL BACCARDAX

New Canteen Opens
In Men's Residence

In spite of Sam Peeps complaints coffee is still Ten Cents.
However, with the opening of the
new canteen in the men’s residence,
greater possibilities have been offered for the satiation of student
hunger. Tomato, Egg and Cheese
sandwiches are now available for
ten cents, while appetizing Ham
and Roast Beef Sandwiches are
selling at fifteen cents a piece.

Ice Cream is now on sale; and in
a few days Mr. Neville hopes to
have a Milk Shake mixer on hand.
Donuts will soon be selling at
three for ten cents. Aliso for a
dime students will soon be able to
get iced cake and pie.

Notice

All students who are interested
in acting in a one act play for
Home-coming are requested to
meet in the Engineering Common
Room Sunday afternoon at 2:30.

Newman Club Communion Breakfast, Sunday, Oct. 23,

* *

UBLIC RELATIONS BOARD
{OVED BY STUDENT COUNCIL

All Campus Publications To
— Be Co-ordinated by New Plan

At a meeting of the Council of Students held Monday
night, a Public Relations Board similar to that already in
existence at the University of British Columbia was pro
posed by Alton Lomas, Vice-President of the Council,

later approved.

and

The Board will work under the supervision of the Council’s Publicity Committee, and be directly responsible for all

student public relations work,

will sit the Editors

on and off the campus. On it

of various campus publications, the head

of a new photography unit as yet only in the planning stage,

a Publicity Manager,
radio releases, the arranging
and poster making.

The Chairman,
with the Publicity

in

Manager, w ill |

be in direct charge of that phase of |
regard to|
its |
will serve |

capacity. |

work. With
organizations under
guidance, the Board
more in an advisory
The publications will still
their various Editors, and only
eases of emergency will the Board
be required to take any action in
that respect.

publicity
the other

have
in

The creation of a photography
unit has been made necessary because of the duplication which
takes place in photos and cuts for
the Gazette and Pharos.

The press and radio releases division of this Board is a new feature of Dal’s publicity organization. To it will fall the work of
writing stories ‘to be used on the
city’s radio stations, and sent to
newspapers throughout the Maritimes, should there be an item of
news of interest to their subseribers.

The task of setting up the new
organization has been assigned by
the Council to Red Lampert and
Bruce Lockwood, who are at present Co-Editors of the Gazette.
During this year, they will attempt to create a smoothly functioning committee, capable of assuming the entire burden of campus publications and general pub
at 9:30. | licity.

 

co-operation@——

 

who will be responsible for press and

of trips, cheerleading groups,

Las & Science Sect
To Ratify Constitution

At a stormy session of the Arts
and Science Society held on Tuesday in the basement of the Arts
Building, the question of dues was
discussed. proposed ‘that
they be raised to’one dollar yearly

It was

but the logical question was asked

—what would the Executive do

with its increased revenue? Eric
Richter pointed out that in view of
the full social schedule planned for
the year more money would be
needed to insure its success. When
someone pointed out that the social activities should be able to pay
for themselves the meeting turned
into a frenzy of backtalk out of
which emerged the decision that
the executive would decide a
change in the constitution to the
effect that the fees would be altered. This change will be placed
before a future meeting of the
Socieety for ratification.

Minor issues at the meeting were
that the proposed idea for having
an Arts and Science bus for the
Acadia trip was cancelled and that
in view of the success of the last
Common Room dance there will be
more such dances, with improvements in lighting and music.

International Student Service Will ‘Tesi ‘Pieeren =
Year With Big Charity Dance in Dal Gym October 28th

The International Students Ser-|

vice of Dalhousie Universtiy will
be having its first big event of the
term at the gymnasium Friday
night Oct. 28 when the ISS-Community Chest Dance will be staged.
Through the kindness of the
American Federation of Musicians
Transcription Fund, Fred Covey’s
orchestra has agreed to play for
the dance free of charge. Of the
entire proceeds one half will go to
the Community Chest and the other
half to the ISS.

This dance is planned to be an

   

outstanding affair. Jack Boudreau
and the Phi Rho quartet which Dalhousians will remember for their
outstanding work last Munroe Day
will be a feature of the program.
Dave “Jolie” Jannigan has consented to be master of ceremonies
and as well Bob McDougall has
agreed to do his annual specialty
number.

Tickets for the dance will go on
sale Monday, the 24th in the gymnasium with Mr. O’Brien officiating, and as well on the campus
from Joe Levison at Studley and

the Forrest
is the usual

Bruce Lockwood
Campus. The
1.25 a couple,

This dance is the first event in
what the ISS committee hopes to

on
price

make an outstanding year. Other
plans are being made for a city

wide tag day in November, a series
of discussions on matters of international interest to be held after
Christmas and the annual fund
drive, which this year will be preceded by an acquaintance campaign
with the ISS to be carried on in

}every faculty of both campi.

 
   
    
 
   
  

tal

fee
mei
hh, ve
eile
,

4

za
on
oe

ae hi >
z +

4
,
bys?
ve
»”

 

  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
   
   
 

Dalhousie University.

; ___bers, the Opposition is banished t

y. 4 rr S: r. ay rade i en 
oP 1 are.

tae mea mea dey
| qi ar NY at t ws

1 ! ied wae a 4

a nite! Bo 7 a

re!

 
 

~~ ys ee

ey Ti pete et FP.
Rete ir, TT) hal t
un a '

*, = ta
i _—i

 
 

 

 

z =~; *
i” “co )

at i 3 | " M1 I CA's OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
atte F - Member Canadian University Press”
se) _ Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of

Opinions expressed are not

Students’ Council. For subee Ware Dalhousie Gazette,

_

.-serip rates Business Manager,
Halifax, N. 8.
Editors-in-Chief
RED LAMPERT BRUCE LOCKWOOD
Pict Business Manager
ALFRED HARRIS
Page Editors
Sports
JOE LEVISON
BOB WOLMAN

News
CHARLES MACINTOSH
NEWCOMB BLOOMER

Features
VALERIE CATO BRUCE IRWIN MARG GOLDBURGH
‘ Photographers
DAN SOBERMAN ERIC RICHTER BOB WOLMAN
Reporters

BRUCE IRWIN PATSY AHERN JOHN ROBERTS
BOB McINNIS NOEL GOODRIDGE BARBARA McGEOUGH
COLEEN MACDONALD BETTY LIVINGSTONE
Cartoonist
BEATRICE MACDONALD
Re-write
LUCY CALP
Proof Readers
GLORIA HORNE RONA YESS

 

Vol, LXXXII FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1949 No. 6

7

CHEERLEADERS AND CHAMPIONS

Clouds of gloom hung eavily over Dalhousie at Redland
Park Saturday afternoon, but there was one bright spot in
an otherwise drab picture. As the Tigers tramped wearily
off the field at half time in a steady drizzle of rain, they
were on the short end of a 4-0 score. Throughout the first
half, the newly reorganized group of cheerleaders had injected a new zest into support from the sidelines.

As the last player trudged into the clubhouse, the Dalhousie Band trouped onto the field, led by the cheerleaders.
The display which followed was far superior to any effort
seen at the college in recent years. The band itself was vastly
improved, and the acrobatics of the cheerleaders marching in
front gave a true college flavour to the scene. It was the
type of thing we enviously read about in the newspapers of
big colleges, now finally realized.

The third and fourth quarter efforts of the Tigers were
spurred on by the cheering troupe even in the heavy downpour of rain. That the Bengals were edged out in the ‘tough
one” was certainly not due to lack of sideline support. The

 

fine effort of the cheerleaders should not go without welldeserved praise. If the outcome of future games were to rest

on their shouldrs, Dalhousie would be undisputed champions.

AN OPPORTUNITY TO IMPROVE

‘This year; for the first time in eleven years, Dalhousie
will play host to.the Maritime Intercollegiate Debating
League. Plans for the meet are now being laid by Al Baccardax, President of Sodales, and his Executive.

The meet will, we hope, serve to revive the failing interest in debating at Dalhousie. For too long a time, this feature of college activity has been all but overlooked by the
vast majority of students, and its main support has come
from the Law school only. That is, perhaps, only to be expected, but it does net explain the complete lack of support
from the students on Studley campus. .

Debating is naturally of prime importance to students in
Law, yet that does not preclude the importance of public
speaking ability in other forms of endeavour. At any time in
a college graduate’s career, he may be called upon to face an
audience ... even if it be only a elub or some other circle of
his friends. All too few can do even that adequately ... all
too few can face such a task without a feeling of despair, and
sometimes a complete inability to make their point.

Last year, a series of lectures by leading men from the
city increased interest in debating and public speaking appreciably. This year, with the leading debaters from all
Maritime universities appearing at Dalhousie, interest should
increase even more.

Students on the Studley campus should not look upon the
coming conference as an opportunity for the members of the
Sodales Society alone. Rather, they should see it as an opportunity to witness the finest in current Maritime debating
and public speaking, and more; a chance to develop their own
interest and ability in this field.

 

 

Letter to the Editors

Dear Sir:

There are no fancy names to
affix to this missive. I have a
problem simple and fundamental.
On the campus I am like a man
without a country.

At a recent meeting of the Arts
and Science Society I was condemned to this. By the authority
of whom? That’s what a mess of
freshettes, a handful of upperclassmen, and a few sundries want to
know. The Executive admits it
knows not the vital statistics of the
Society. Yet they call a meeting
of the Society, and what happens?
What can? Nothing. They, the
Executive, carry on despite the
fact that the Society has no mem
overruled and what’s left? Anarchy and a bitter taste of NOTHING—a flavour strong with wasted
vigour. |
.-Presumably the motion put forward for an increase in dues was
done by a rehabilitated Gremlin
with naught but Shadows for accompanists; the breath of air that
swept the room when one tired
shadow raised a window did more
good than all the hot air that was
used between twelve and one
o’clock last Tuesday. Please, fellow Shadows, let’s not accept the
null and void state of the present
Society.
Yours truly,

FRED LAING

| that the Executive of this Society, |

Lower Slobbovia, the Majority is

 

 

Wednesday, October 19— Lord,
did ever man see such confusion!
Today, did fall into the company
of one Oldhairbrush Panty, who
did relate to me the events at a
meeting of a certain Asses and

Seance Society. He did tell me
being stricken by conscience of
late, called a seance, at which they |
did hope to receive divine guidance for the reorganization of the
group.

Alas, the seance failed. As
‘Panty explained to me, the Society
did firstly declare all its members
no longer members, since no one
knew who had paid their fees.
Then, the President, one Bobsdaughter, did call for a vote of confidence from the members who|
were not members, which was)
given. Now, the Executive that is
not an Executive is to frame a new |
constitution, which will be thrown |
out when the members are members again. |

Leaving Panty, I did make haste
to the coffee shop of the Sour
brothers, wherein is sold a brew
called tencentcoffee, from the Indies. Here I did peruse a copy of
the Spectator (early edition), and
did wonder at the ingenuity of the
writers.

 

One writer did offer up a weak
excuse for the use of short skirts
on cheerleaders, which are a type
of animal let loose at a New Game
now being played by the scholars
of Dullhousie. He did say the Parliament had not sufficient funds
for long skirts, which are longer
and therefore cost more than short
ones. But I am told the true reason is that long skirts would adversely affect the minds of the
young scholars, who are curious.

Having quarrelled with one of
the Sours about payment for his
tencentecoffee—home and to bed to
nurse my recent attack of croup.

Thursday, October 20 — Up betimes, and to a meeting of Parliament, held at Studlee, being much |
interested in new reports of lack |
of funds in the King’s purse. |
There I did watch one Squeaky |
Windmill cutting the courtiers’ |
budgets with great glee and much |
rubbing together of his hands. But |
he did finally relent, when one of |
the loveliest of the courtiers, Miss |
Ran Down, pleaded with the Ex- |
chequer for larger moneys. He did |
add his voice to her pleas, and did |
convinee the assembled Parliament |
of her deservedness. And he a’
married man, too! |

The wrangling of the Parliament
tiring me overly, I did seek refreshment at a new shop at Studlee, which is neither Pasha Dead- |
wood’s emporium, nor the bar open |
to. all commoners. I was much |
pleased to find in this shop five- |
centeoffee, which I had thought
could not be obtained anywhere |
near Dullhousie, and particularly |

 

not on Studlee,,as it is a beverage |

to be drunk only by strong heads.

Home early, as I did promise my |

wife an evening at the theatre,

some
from a newspaper—not the Spectator,— for a statement in it
against him. I am resolved to
watch more closely the pages of
the Spectator hereafter, to see if
I may collect such a sum. Then I
will buy my wife the case of red

peppers from the Indies for which’

she has made my life miserable.
~ Leaving the Courthouse deep in

twenty .thousand pounds, was

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

in deep trouble—trying to
compose certain invitations to a
great ball being held by the Law
scholars. . I did think it passing
strange that a Law scholar could
not word such a thing. I was further surprised when he did show
me a whole pad—full of attempts
Will had made and then scratched
out. I helped the poor befuddled
young man, and returned home,

 

thinking on the future of our Law
with such _ benighted students
guiding it. And so to bed, things
not looking as bright as they did.

contemplation of my future fortunes; I. did collide heavily with
Will Peachdaughter, also deep in
thought. He -did tell me that he

Yessir...there’s an Aratone
shirt-tie color combination to
flatter any suit in your
wardrobe! Shirt shades from
soft pastels to deep tones,
with smooth-knotting Arrow
Ties to harmonize.

 

They’re all Arrow collars... and

that means always perfect-fitting. Four up-to-the-minute styles: new

Dover button-down, new low-slope

Contour, Windsor, and the regular

fused Standish. Aratone shirts are

quality broadcloth, in plain shades,

wide stripes; pin stripes or checks.

And SANFORIZED. At your

ARROW Dealer’s.

Look for the Registered Trade Mark ARROW

ARROW Aang :

Harmonizing Shirts and Ties

ttt LE Pee *
0 0 0 © 4) ph

,y Ae de o. Jo. 0 ° 3 i a

ne Bi if “he od, * =

  

 

  

“And now a word from Box Carr about his

payoff touchdown!” :
“Shucks, folks! The real payoff is the way
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic ‘takes out’ Dry Scalp
and gives your hair that ‘going places’ look.’’

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

ae ol rid

 

"VASELINE’ IS THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESEBROUGH MFG. CO. CONS’'D

 

 

which I could not afford, and did
make apology profusely lest I be
denied my evening meal. Having
supped, to bed early with my
croup, which is getting worse, I

think.

Friday, October 21 — Lord, to
what further depths will the)
Spectator (early edition) sink! |

Did purchase my copy today, to

 

find in it more paid notices than |
news. This Alfedup Witharris |
who runs the Spectator from be- |
hind the scenes will be wealthy ere
long, I think.

It being wet today, and miserable underfoot, I did stop in at the
Courthouse,
ment.

in hope of amuse. | JOHN A, HOBSON, Mer.
Did find there a most in-; JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mgr
|teresting argument, in which a|CHARLES SMITH, Mer.

Lae
Ld as
Ps

Cit
Le
| dd

tt
Sti aaah od
ttt i

st
a

rated

CANADA’S
FIRST BANK

 

Halifax Branch:

North End Braneh:

reader was attempting to recover | JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mgr. Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

 
   
 
 
    
  

 
  
   
  
  

a .
ote bi bY
4 ‘ —
a ee . i

by Windy O'Neill

 

  

  

raven will most Labrada be that of the Dalhousie Amateur
ee still lee in a sound re While they sleep

8 a

     

ely eae the alumns. The first lache occurred when some un, z person at Bing's told two oan football stars that re

) eT

ii fae for Cg good wilt in encouraging athletes of Varsity ‘ati

to turn out for Dal teams (remember these are registered Dal students). —

    
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  

The DAAC snorted, awoke, and said, ‘“‘That’s not very nice”, and
t 1en resumed their snooze. Then came the English Ruggah boys. Our
'p -rsonal opinion of the English game is that is should be kept on and
-enco ged. The physical director thinks there is room for both games
3 \d we agree—it is especially valuable for interfaculty play where the
competition is razor keen, even the Roundup turned out last year, and
enjoyed it too! However, let’s not be foolish about it. With our Canadian. Football effort, we can only support one ruggah team—preferably
of the intermediate class. It is our opinion that those responsible for
the entry of the two teams this year have dealt this particular game a
severe blow. The DAAC foolishly assented to two teams, intermediate
and snior, and failed to give competition, even to that bucolic collegi‘ate, Acadia.
PEs Se Sa)
_ There is no harm in being beaten if one puts up a contest, the Dal
rugger teams failed to do that last week. We are assured the situation will improve, although skeptical, we hope so. This is not all.
Our somnulent DAAC has come up with a prize one fer the coming
hockey season. Surely it was demonstrated last year that Dal, without a rink, cannot compete with the other Maritime Universities, all
| of whom, have artificial plants. All credit to those enterprising institutions that have secured them. You guessed it—we are going back
for more; we will provide the other institutions with nice weekend trips
to Halifax to investigate the mysteries of the Olympic Gardens.
Everything is against us, especially that slick rule put through the
MyAU about those dastards (don’t louse this up Mr. Printer) who play,
alone, on outside teams. We are against it.

* * *

It is rumoured that we are going to have a rink built. Fine, but
let’s wait for it. The word Dal now connotes competing teams in the
athletic sphere, why. ruin it?

 

When It’s Time To Eat
It’s Time To Refresh

Tea
:
mie ir ok

 

Dent Notes

 

Many thanks to Mr. O’Neill for
his fine write-up on our doings at
the clinic. It was excellently done
and left little to be said. That’s
just the trouble—there is nothing
to be said. We were scooped by a
Lawyer. Ah well, probably ’tis
best that way. Just as well to
have homeone else tell us how good
we are rather than telling it ourselves, even if it is true.

Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs.
Reg Sanson upon the recent birth
of a daughter.

| The big news this week is the
annual ball to be held this year at
the Lord Nelson. The dances of
previous years have been such
huge successes that it has been decided to share our blessings with
the students of other faculties on
the campus. Yes, it’s true, you
can be at the Dental Ball even
though you are not fortunate enough to be a dental student. But
the number of tickets to be sold is
limited, (naturally—they always
are) so get yours now. The date—
Friday, Oct. 28th. The time—9
p.m. Place—Lord Nelson, Dress—
formal, and the price is only $3.00
per couple.

No kidding though, gang; last
year the ball was terrific and we
had a wonderful time — they tell
me. I don’t see why the dance
shouldn’t be just as good or better.
So come along—we’d love to have
you.

Letter from Sylvester

Dear Ma,

Arrived safely in Halifax yesterday and _ slept comfortably in
Franklyn Park. This morning I
went searching for a room, and
found a very nice one in a sort of
quaint location. It overlooks Pier
21. My room is very cozy, I can
even get my trunk inside if I stand
it on end. The architect forgot to
build in a closet, but there is extra
space under the bed anyway. Oh,
yes, I have a very handy desk—
the door has no hinges and fits
over the bed perfectly, although
the doorknob’ is a little troublesome. When I get the oil for the
lamp, things will be just fine.

I discovered that Dalhousie is a
very peculiar place when I went
to the Registrar this afternoon.
There was a long line of goggleeyed freshmen, boys and girls,
standing in the corridors, fidgeting. A voice said, “Hmmm, not a
bad crop of freshettes this year,
and I’m a Soph, Heh, heh!”
Wherever I looked, there were
signs reading, “AH Frosh report to
|Room 3.” A hand grabbed me by
the collar, and a gruff voice roared, “That means YOU”. On the
way to Room 3, I met many
groups of obviously insane people.
|'They were not Frosh. They kept

 

muttering, “Ec. 87, that’s Ec, 22
now. Ec. 22 is Poli Se. 14, but so
is Phil 18 and they all come at

 

11:00 on Tuesday.
substitute Music 2. ... No, that’s
| no good for my grouping. My
Gawd, maybe I’d better switch to
_ engineering.” Obviously de| ranged.

:

| In Room 38 sat the chairman of
\the Sophomore Initiation Committee, Der Fuhrer. “Fill in these
|forms,” he ordered. After two
\hours, I handed him the completed
forms and massaged my* writing
hand. Being very weary from
such exertion, I decided to eat
supper and retire early.

Maybe I can

 

 

Someone directed me to an eating establishment filled with those
insane souls I han encountered earlier on my way to Room 8. As I
sat munching a slightly pallid
piece of pie and sipping on a beer
—root beer—a furtive stranger
sitting beside me grasped my wrist
and whispered, “I see you’re new
around here. Well, here’s a bit of
advice: Keep away from Sherriff
Hall before you get bitten by the
alcove bug and become enslaved.
You'll never pass an exam if that
happens. It’s even worse than the

ble
Sant,
Pai [*

 

ait

“Pa ge Three

 

STUDENT
DENTIST
AT WoRkLD

  
 

QUIET /

PLEASE

  
  
 

NO COMPCH ING

 

 

THE STUDENT COUNCIL
BUDGET APPROPRIATION

Approved Estimate Received

PPR a ce cleats, ai PS sitter d's bis! s 6 Me $ 6,276.83 $ 2,478.00
RHNOO MOD cretseUley Ue dk wale k sed ws alesn Dy epOORAl $ 1,500.00
rE MES goes 3 Sigieia ed Siok NE vic wo icp” Os SeOO0 $ 2,000.00
Personal Service ..............+... $ 1,680.00 $ 1,100.00
Ren asi gag eed ek Va vie stud $ 896.05 -§ 36.00
COUNCIL
ROR RR RYE PE 3 G70 bik aig x oa ls ese cvs $ 5,475.33 $20,871.50
FERMOCOMIDO TA Lie, Gilg ae bsdtereele eels —~—-~- a
Prt td ecole Guu ley cities eww ig Ce + ——— ——-PEC ee cick Lede wine we bang dices. $ 911.00 ———
PRR Mek ibalieskih's 48 hwo oi a before $ 277.00
MCR SEIBT oo sie tk ble Sa ee $ 3838.67 +

$27,985.50

Glee Club, Bridgitis or Gazette investigate tomdrrow, with caution,
Gossipitis.” ‘naturally.

Sherriff Hal of course must be |
a prison, but what is an alcove |
bug. Well, Ma, this matter in
trigues me BPE so I think [ll

Until. next time,

Mama’s Boy, (and Papa’s)

Sy lvester

What Has
THE COTC
to Offer You?

 

 

 

1. Im time of need to qualify for a commission in
the Canadian Army either as Active or
veserve.

2. Three summers of four months training each at
full pay ($153 per month), plus board, lodging,
clothing and transportation.

o. A training that will fit in with your education,
whether general, technical or professional and
as well develop a healthy body, an alert mind,
and leadership qualities.

4. The chance to meet students from twenty-four
other universities from Newfoundland to British
Columbia.

5 Applications are particularly invited from Soph
omores in Engineering, first and second years
Arts, Science, and Commerce—first year Law,
Medicine, Dentistr y, and Pharmacy.

Come and talk it over with the Resident Staff
Officer—Major J. N. Cram

at the C.0.T.C. Office in the Dal Gym, or Phone at
one of the numbers listed on the C.O.T.C. Bulletin
Board in the Gym.

Remember that the quota for 1949-50 is limited,
so apply early.

 

 
 
  

  
  
   
   
 
    
 
      
     
    
 
    
    
     
  
    
 
 
     
   
  

 
  
 
   
  
 

aia =

cK ‘MEET IS WON BY
B-AMASS 54 POINTS

‘The nivernity of New Brunswick with a brilliant last
ay vents splurge overcame Saint Francis Xavier University to

: o retain the Maritime Intercollegiate Track and Field cham
     
  
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

ae U.N.B. amassed a

aX, Acadia University came a poor
th with 27 points and Mount
Allison was fourth with a total of
22 points, Must we go further?
- Dalhousie came fifth with 5 points.
aa ‘The Dalhousie team, composed
mainly of high school athletes
ould actually furnish little competition for the more experienced
; intercollegiate stars. The only
ie ~ events in which the Dal athletes
;. 4 went down in the score books
were the’880 relay where the team
of Haley, Russel, Kolm and Fancy
Fe nS came third; and the hop, step and
: ES jump in which Chick Fancy placed
second. The boys of all teams
. found themselves slowed down in
eight and distance by the chilly

  

Summary

+ 420-Yard Low Hurdles—1, Vincent, Acadia; 2, Tuttle, Mount A;
w By Manson, U.N.B. Time 15.5.
 400-Yard Dash—1, B. King,
UNB.; 2, J. King, U.N.B.; 3,
Gross, Mout A. Time 10.0.

“220-yard dash—1. J. King, UNB;
2. Collins, St. F.X.; 3. Swartzak,
St. F.X. Time 24.0.

440-yard Run—1. B. King, UNB;
2. McPherson, St. F.X.; 3. Collins,
St. FLX. Time 52.6.

880-yard Run—l. Gallagher, St.
F.X.; 2. Benson, U.N.B.; 3. Miller,
U.N.B. Time 2:7.0

One Mile Run—1. Miller, U.N.B.;
2. Gallagher, St. F.X.; 3. Benson,
U.N.B. Time 4:48.8,

880-yard Relay — 1. St. F.X.
(Swartzak, B. Collins, Connolly,
Morrison); 2. U.N.B. (P. Collins,

- Class. B. King, J. King; 3. Dalhousie (Haley, Russell, Kolni,
Fancy). Time 1:35.8.

_ One Mile Relay—1. St. F.X.; 2.
ce ) Mount A. Time 4:0.4. Broad Jump
” —1. Morrison, St, F.X.; 2 Whitehead, Acadia; 8. Eastman, Mt; A.
Distance 19ft. 2% in,

High Jump—1, Morrison, St. F.
X.; 2. Vincent, Acadia; 3. Bernats,
Acadia. Height 5 ft. 6 in.

Hop, Step and Jump—1l. Lee,
Mt. A.; 2. Fancy, Dalhousie; 8.
Eastman, Mt. A. Distance 41 ft.
7 in.

Discus—1. Hill, Mt. A.; 2. Hale,
U.N.B.; 3. Bernats, Acadia. Distance 105 ft. 11% in

Shot Put — 1. Hale, U.N.B.; 2.

 

 

Nelson, St. F. X.; 3. Bernats,
Acadia. Distance 35 ft. 7% in.

Javelin Throw — 1. Bernats,
Acadia; 2. Vincent, Acadia; 3.
Flaherty, St. F.X. Distance 160
vit,"'S in.

Pole Vault—1. Manson, U.N.B.,
and Gagnon, U.N.B., tie; 3. Momeel brequette, St. F.X. Height 9 ft.
me 4% in,

_—
P - Stad Pool
For DGAC

Once again the Gym is reserved
_ for the girls on Tuesday nights.
The first few turnouts seem to
+ have shown fair indication that
; new players will be starring on
the various teams this year.

 

et
are" a 7

_ The major sports this term are
basketball and ground hockey.
Varsity basketball practises will
_ be held every Wednesday and Fri‘day at 1.30, starting Oct. 26th.
Don’t be frightened off by the
word “varsity”. Potential ability
papas more than experience in
Sn ease and Miss Evans strong
‘ a ie, urges all those interested to
ae Bs turn out. Several teams-have to

a >
Bers: ser :

e . Wa a

at, ame :

_pionships at Fredericton yesterday.
the ‘Brunéwickans who only edged out the Antigonish Blues

It was a close call for

total of 54 points for victory.

 

       
   

ACADIA TRIP NEXT
FRIDAY

Dalhousie will meet Acadia
next Friday for a sudden death
game in the Maritime Intercollegiate ses pees Rugby League
series. will be attempting
to displace Acadia from first
place in the league. Buses will
be supplied for students wishing
to make the trip at reduced
student rates. Watch Bulletin
Board for further announcements,

  

 
 

   
 
 
  
  
 

  

  
 

‘Through rain, mud and

again. The Mount A. speedster,
and Maritime championship teams, again rose to the oceca|sion, though in different colours, as he lead the Dal Senior
Rugger squad to a resounding 9-0 win over Halifax Navy,
Wednesday at the Wanderers Grounds.

in two tries for the Bengals.

 

The Long and The Short of It
Left to right: Jim Cruikshanks, Mason McDonald, Bob Black, Jimmy Mahon, Buckey Tanner

STRONG COURT SQUADS TO REPRESENT DALHOUSIE
AS OPENING OF 1949 BASKETBALL SEASON NEARS

Three top notch basketball squads will represent Dal in

the forthcoming hoop season,

Under the guidance of Phy
sical Director Vitalone the boys are developing into a fast,

well-trained group of hoop artists.
Vitalone has been putting the boys through the mill.

For the past ten days
His

Sparton-like training routines should bear results in the near

future.
week,

From a group of nearly forty@
boys coach Vitalone will have to
pick twenty-four players. Twelve
will compete in the Junior Leagues,
and twelve in the Intermediate. Of
these, the twelve best will make
up the Varsity squad, carrying the
Dal colours into the inter-collegiate
campaign.

Positions on the Senior squad
are being keenly contested. Scott
Henderson and Andy MacKay,
both back from last year’s Varsity
squad, are showing great improvement in the play. As rear guards,
they. make a hard team to beat.
Don Tanner, a Varsity star from
former years, is also out looking
for a guard’s position.

Forward positions will be harder
to obtain than first editions.
Among those contesting are Jimmie Mahon, Earle Smith, “Arpy”
Robertson, back from last year,
Scott Morrison, Chuck Connolly
and Mason MacDonald from last
year’s Dal Grads, and Bob Black, a
transfer student from Mount Allison. Showing well in Junior
trials are Dave McCurdy, Doug
Clancey, D. Shaw, Reg Cluney,
and Red Finlay.

For the first time in many seasons, enthusiasm among the players is at a high point. The boys
are out there each night, giving it
the old college “try”, and even
though the above names were men
tioned, it will be no surprise if
they do not receive berths on their
respective teams,

 

be chosen and there’s room for

everybody. The girls preferred
intermural basketball to the old
system of interclass basketball

because all basketball enthusiasts
get a chance to play instead of
just the more experienced players.
The intramural teams and schedule are posted in the Gym on the
D.G.A.G. bulletin board. Miss
Evans states that there are still
vacancies for any girls that have
not yet turned out and requests
that they get in touch with her.
The King’s and Dal ground hoc
He expects to have his Senior squad picked by next

 

 

Cubs Esiiedal By
Kingsmen 5-Nil

The Dalhousie Cubs were beaten
by King’s 5-0 in a regularly-scheduled Intermediate league fixture
at Wanderer’s Park Wednesday
afternoon. By virtue of their win
King’s moved into a second place
tie with Tech while the Cubs dropped into the league cellar.

Dalhousie opened strong in the
first half, pushing the Kingsmen
back in their own territory. Coming within kicking distance twice,
the Dalhousie club tried both
times for the field goal, but were
unsuccessful. King’s then made
their bid for leadership.

Before the _ first ten minutes
were over, “Fergie” Fergusson, a
constant threat on the left wing,
took the ball, shook three defenders in a fine run and_ touched
Score territory for three points.
Corning kicked the convert successfully, putting King’s into a
5-0 lead. After the try the Cubs
came to life, pressing the Kingsmen back to their own 25 yd. line,
but were foiled in any attempt
that led to pay-dirt.

In the second half Dal carried
the play up until the last eight
minutes of the game, However,

 

key game scheduled for Thursday
afternoon was postponed until this
morning. The winning team will
journey to Acadia on the 29th.

The Stadacona pool has been
obtained for beginners, on Mondays from 4.30 to 5.30, and for
advanced prospects for the team,
on Thursdays at 12.00. Unless at
least fifteen girls turn out for
practices we will not be allowed to
use the pool, All those who were
unable to turn out for the first
practise on Thursday please contact Marlyn MacIntyre.

 

the rain made the playing field a
bog and the ball slippery, eliminating many passes and runs, The
game then became a kicking duel
between Ian Henderson of Dal and
Jamie Anglin of King’s. The
Kingsmen took possession of the
ball with eight minutes to play
and constantly threatened. But
for the brillian goal-line tackles of
Mae Cochrane, King’s would have
added to their score.

Dal took the ball eleven times
from the scrum in the first half
to King’s four> In the second half
each team acquired the ball fourteen times. . |

Dalhousie — Forwards, Leslie,
Jardine, Robertson, MacPherson,
Sutherland, Kerr; halves, Grayson, Cochrane, Wilkinson, Bethune, Broown, Boswell; fullback,
Henderson.

 

  

FORSYTH’S
MEN’S SHOP

Headquarters
for

Fine Clothing - Sweaters
and Furnishings

a

Discount
Extended to all DAL Students

262 Gottingen St. 4-1172

 

Class Jewellery

Its not too early to plan the
class order of rings and pins.

Birks Contract Department
will be glad to assist with designs and special prices for
group orders.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited
Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

McCOY LEADS BENGALS
TO FIRST LEAGUE WIN

sweat, Gordie McCoy rides
star of Mt. A.’s McCurdy cup

cane i hn

It was the first win

SS Se See

But McCoy was not alone in his
sterling effort. Mike Delorie, solid 4
speedster, and Fred Laphen, also
played stellar ball. It was Delorie
who followed up McCoy’s first half
try with two of his own and
Laphen who played outstanding
defensive football.
with a plunge from scrum on the

McCoy started the ball rolling
Navy 5. The convert missed, as
did the other two. The muddy field |
and heavy downpour couldn’t stop |
the revitalized Dalhousie squad
from executing some brilliant runs |
on the three-quarter line. |

Holding a territorial edge in |
play, the Tigers found themselves |
met byyan alumnus at Navy’s fullback slot—Bob Beer, a former Dal
man who played brilliant ball until
he was injured just before the end
of the game.

Opening out in the second half
McCoy started a lateral extension
run from Navy’s 30. Delorie took
the ball over at the edge of the
field to make it 6-0 for the Studley club. It was Freddy Laphen
who set up the final Tiger try. He
intercepted a Navy lateral, passed
to Morrison, to Delorie who zoom- |
ed 85 yards downfield for the final
try.

Though controlling more of the
play territorially, the Tigers had |
trouble with Navy’s scrum. Each |
heeled 8 times in the first half,
Dal 5 and Navy 11 in the second.

Dalhousie — Forwards, Cruickshanks, Ellis, Archibald, Frederickson, Bligh, MaeGregor, halves,
MacLeod, MacCoy, Tracy, Laphin, ,
Morrison, Delorie, fullback, MacDonald.

Navy — Forwards, O’Malley,
Stachon, Munson, Lewis, Gregory,
MacNichol, Martin, Blades, Mac- |

Donald, Brown, Crowley, Enouyi,
fullback, Beer.

~ COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

__ ee eee

9'4 Prince St. 
KEYHOLE NECKLINE! Newest,
latest! In bold stripes, sparkling

colour schemes. All wool.
Popularly priced, everywherel

COT yaa

“rsORONTO ~- CANADA

 

 
