   

o

 

  

THE
GAZETTE
GAMBOL
MONDAY

NIGHT

    
     
    

 

Vol. LXXXII

 

THE

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 1950

COME TO
THE
GAZETTE

GAMBOL
MONDAY
NIGHT

No. 22

 

COUNCIL 10 PUBLISH PHAROS

DESPITE UNIVERSITY RULING

 

 

STERLING AREA STUDENTS. Here are four of the sterling area
bursary winners whose names were announced by the Dal ISS Committee, Wednesday. They are from left to right: W. S. A. Signh,
Georgetown, Br. Guiana; Ronald Wills, Georgetown, Br. Guiana; M.
F. Johnson, Jamaica, B.W.I.; S. Tancoo, Trinidad. Not pictured are
D. C. C. Pitt, St. Vincent, B.W.I., and H. Giraudy, Santa Lucia.

A. and S., Med and Pre-med Students
Win BursariesiGiven by 1.S.S.

The Dalhousie committee of the International Students
Service has announced the winners of the Sterling area bursaries. Set up by the committee in an effort to compensate
students from £ areas for losses of approximately 20% of
their income through devaluation, the bursaries were won by
two medical students, two pre-med students and two students
in Arts and Science.

 

  
 

 

ki |Discontinue

bes ~~ —<@)

Junior Class Holds

Important Meeting

A meeting of the Junior Class
was held in the basement of the
Arts building last Tuesday at 2
noon. Andy MacKay, President of
last year’s Sophmore class, and
Junior representative for Arts and
Science on the Students Council,
was in the chair.

About 385 Juniors turned up,
which is quite good, considering
the numbers that usually appear at
such a meeting. The main topic of
discussion was, whether or not a
Junior Prom should be held. Due
to the financial failure of last
year’s effort it was decided to rule
out a hotel danee. A committee
consisting of Lucy Calp, Joyce
Carney, Noel Goodridge and Ed
Belliveau, was appointed to look
into the possibilities of holding a
formal! in the Gym.

This committee will bring a report to the next meeting of the
Junior, Class which will be held
this coming Tuesday (24th), at 12
noon in the Arts building basement. Remember 51’er’s, it’s your
Class and your -meeting, so it’s up
to you to show some class spirit.
(and it’ll be your Prom too!!!).

ae a ee ma i Or

W. S. A. Singh, Georgetown, Br. |
Guiana; D. C. C. Pitt, Saint Vincent, B.W.I. Pre-medical student
winners are Ronald Wills, Georgetown, Br. Guiana; M. F. Johnson,
Jamaica, B.W.I. -H. Giraudy of
Santa Lucia is the Arts winner and
S. Tancoo of Trinidad the science
student winner.

The six bursaries will be given
from the entire proceeds of a Tag
Day held last fall by the committee
With the assistance of the girls
from the Shirreff Hall residence.
It is one of the objectives of the
LS.S. campus campaign this year
to maintain and if possible increase
the amount of the bursaries next
term.

The bursary project is part of
the revised policy of the Dal committee which is undertaking a series of on-campus projects including
this year as well the DP scholarship.

Muscat Essay Prize
Offered to Students

The University has announced
that there is to be an essay contest open to all students registered
in three or more classes in the
faculty of Arts and Science. A
prize, the value of which is $40.00,
is to be offered to the winner of
this contest.

This is the Muskat Memorial
Essay Prize. The length of the NOTICE
essay should be from 4,000 to 5,000} The Newman Club will have a
words. It should deal with any|Communion Breakfast, Jan. 22 at
subjeet of national or international | 9:30 in the Club Rooms. As many
importance.

 

wow!!

 

NOTICE

Juniors Attention

There will be a meeting of the

 

 

Council Committee Drafts Plans After
“Board Of Governors Executive Votes To

Compulsory Year Book Levy

The Executive of the Board of Governors of the University has decided to discontinue, as of now, the compulsory
three-dollar contribution made by each undergraduate towards the Yearbook. However, students will still pay the
three-dollar fee in their graduating year. This year’s levy
will be returned, according to the resolution, at the same time
as the caution deposits.

The President of the University, Dr. A. E. Kerr, informed Student Council President Art Moreira of the Governors’
decision last Saturday, and it was considered on Tuesday by
a Council meeting originally called to make appointments to
the staff of this year’s Pharos.

Committee Appointed

At its meeting the Council appointed a Committee to look into
ways and means of publishing a Yearbook in any case, although a
$5000 budget had shrunk to between $1000 and $1500. The President
and Vice4President of the Council were instructed to meet with the
President of the University in the meantime as to whether or not the
Executive of th Board might be induced to change its mind, and to
report back to the committee. The Committee met last night.

Committe Meets

The Council’s delegates reported to the Committee last night that
they had been successful. They had been advised that the Board’s decision was, for the time being anyway, final. A Senate-Board Committee had looked into the whole matter of the Dalhousie Yearbook, and
had made the following recommendations to the Executive of the
Board:—1l. Undergraduates should not have to buy a Yearbook;
2. Graduates, however, should be levied three dollars each;:3. Yearbooks should from now on be less ambitious. The principal reason given
was that voting in the student plebiscite held three years ago had indicated no heavy majority of the students in favour of the three dollar levy, and that only an overwhelming majority of the student body
Should be able to impose a compulsory levy on all students.

Alternatives

Feeling that a majority of the graduating students, at least, favour the publication of a Yearbook, the committee decided that one
should be prepared. The committee then had three alternatives to
consider: the first was a Yearbook to be financed by graduates’ fees
only—$1500 at the most. The advice of the experts was that this was
impossible, that a Yearbook simply could not be published for so little.
The second alternative was a “Graduation Issue” of the Gazette, but
this plan was also rejected on the ground that the Council could not
very well expect that graduates to pay three dollars for even a large
edition of the GAZETTE while the rest of the student body obtained it
free of cost.

The last alternative, not an easy one in view of the Council’s
straightened’ circumstances, was to publish a fairly good Yearbook,
costing about $4000 or $5000, issue it to the graduates, and try to make
up the deficit (primarily to be paid out of the sinking fund) by sales
to undergraduates. This latter scheme was adopted, and plans were
drawn up to be ratified by the Council when it meets Tuesday.

Meanwhile, the Committee, acting under the powers given to it by
the Council, is proceeding with preliminary arrangements and selecting a staff.

The Committee has also decided to recommend that students interested in obtaining a copy of this year’s PHAROS be asked to sign over
their three dollars to the Council. These recommendations will be considered by the Council on Tuesday night. The Council will also consider
the President’s written report on the circumstances which caused the
delay in the publication of last year’s PHAROS.

In the meantime any student interested in poining the staff of the
Yearbook should apply in person at the PHAROS office in the Gym
between 12.00 a.m. and 1.00 p.m. on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
of next week.

eee

In medicine much the same prob
°
Students Complain MaiesBieluees « Atost ile cae eee
| dent, it was learned, spends around
Of Overwork te hours a week in lectures, labs

and clinics. In addition to this
EDMONTON— CUP — Students | around five or six hours are spent

 

at the university have no soft life.
A survey by the Gateway, shows
that a student at the university is
required to spend almost as much
time at labs and lectures as the
average office employee is expected to spend at work. And this
does not include the extra hours
that must be spent studying the
course.

An investigation into the work
required for a fourth year chemis
members as possible should come}|Junior Class on Tuesday, Jan.¢24,|try student shows that a total of

This contest is only open to Dal-| because there will be a short but|at 12 noon in the basement of the | 45 hours a week was taken up by

housie Students. important meeting after.

Arts building. Important.

| labs and lectures.

in travelling between the university
and city hospitals to attend clinics.

Arts students seem to get a better deal. Average number of
hours a week for the arts students
is about 18. But one arts student
pointed out that while the hours of
lectures were lighter in this course
than in any other, the adidtional
amount of reading made up for it.

One agriculture student told the
Gatewaysthat he could spend all his
time on just a couple of courses out
of the six he is taking.

 

 

 

 
Tie! Petar
a) gh 4
m.

it lees
i yaad
oH os

shed twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
rsity. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
nts’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
sie Gazette, Halifax, N. 8

ay. Tuc
B}: ih

malt

RR AOMI a, cfs det, 5c ii aes y aaah ees wv a-ee:s a Ly aps Sy eaB-TOR8
ock Editor-in-Chief
Been .....Managing Editor
vane Gots tale ....... Advertising Manager

Office Manager

od

he. <a . eo
es

he,
-*

EDITORIAL STAFF
. veaeseesevess.. News Editors
ede enetewt 8 ered wig Sy ald vaccevvcseses. ok eature Editor
EES aS LU eR te a ae Sports Editors

Sports Reporters.........Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Leyison
Feature Writers. .....Judy McKeen, Barbara McGeoch, Eliphal Nichols
Reporters—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,

_ Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,

Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

MMMM, Ce sberd cules vere be 9 APL ea Na Dan Soberman
artoonist..........Dave Nicholson, Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
UME eel Se RRS We aes eetohe Ge waih a ciate Luey Calp

Pe ali ea BMS ea Ch dea sore Gloria Horne, Rona Yess

FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 1950

THE DECLINE OF PHAROS

| i i ‘a The Board of Governors has decided that the compulsory
$8.00 levied for a year book in the last few years will no

_____ longer be collected. The money already on hand for the

1949-’50 Pharos will be refunded to all except the graduating

lass.

a The Board made this decision without consulting the Coun
‘

ra

atic on

wy

1 of Students, on the basis that, being instrumental in the
collection of the fee, the university is at least partially responsible for the disposition of the funds. Since no prepar
ation for a new Pharos has been made, it was feared that a

Pe a
a My
eae) hts F

ri hy
fo.

Ne
4 Be hi? iat .
results ...on time.


repetition of last year’s mistakes would occur, and the Board
would again have collected students’ money with no tangible

.

| ‘The decision is not unjustified. The Board was reluctant to impose the fee in the first place, and did so only after
a student plebiscite was held, narrowly indicating the students’ willingness to be so charged. But the same procedure

t, _ should have been bollowed in the undoing of their work.

The effect will be disastrous to future year books. As

Be _ Was the case formerly, Pharos will have to be undertaken as a

ei _ private venture. In those times, the quality of the book was

‘ as. _ far below that of the past two issues, mainly because half of

i ae dS
tee, (i

: eo:
a. ee

the students refused to buy copies. The same state of affairs
will exist again.

The Council may be criticized for permitting preparations for the 1949-’50 year book to be held back to such an
extent that it was possible for the Board to decree the withrawal of its funds. But those preparations could not have
reached such a point by mid-term as to obviate that possibility. Advertising for the issue could not have been collected
‘until last year’s issue appeared. Graduate and undergraduate
photos might have been completed by this time, but they may
still be attempted. And finally, pictures of student activities
to date have already been gathered, and are in the Gazette’s

files,

. weekly skating session on Council |
ih _ tickets will be arranged this year
__ at the local arena. I think it is|and shelved it because of lack of

a
‘
a

ra)
a

i’
= int
oa

; rs) 4
a

i

ine
' a &,,'
eee

i
C74
’

f

_ work of the Students’ Council, I

.

_ necessary that the Council provide
this recreational facility because |
there is no winter recreation for

“. Sipdents other than hocke¥ players
|

4

ei eee it

4 alli tah Ab as ve

RM Sg = ha gh | sek
Basta 1 Saal

_ The question of last year’s Pharos is on a somewhat different plane. Blame for its delay is difficult to place, and to
no purpose. Suffice it to say that it lies partially on the Edi
tor and his staff, and partially on the two Students’ Councils
concerned.

Should any review of the entire situation be desired, the

- | _ time and place will shortly be provided at a student forum.

Letter To The Editor

Sinee it seems quite difficult to

, Here, Mr. Editor, is another
find out about the proceedings and

chance to stress the desperate need
for a “University Rink.”
Thanking you for your space,
W. M. BLACK
The Council considered the matter at the beginning of the year,

would like to use your column, so
graciously offered, to inquire if a

funds.

At the last meeting of the Council the matter was again raised and
stu ? it was explained that due to lack of
within the scope of the use of!funds it was impossible to finance
ea et Bee Pig: ach these sessions.—Kd.

ts

tA, ott i

Wednesday, Jan. 18, 1950 — Up
betimes and to the college on the
hill, where I saw Oldhairbrush

Panty who was rushing about with

a pair of scales in his hand. He did
go up to Miss Loose Scalp and did
request her to mount upon the
scales. He did look at the indicator
and did murmur “125. Hmm!”, and
did enter the number in a little
black book, He then did stop Miss
Morgue Metaltown, and ask her to
mount the scale. He looked at the
indicator again and did snatch up
his apparatus and rush hastily
away.

I did then meet Handy McEyewash with a similar fnachine and
did ask him why and wherefore.
He replied that each damsel would
have to be weighed at the Spectator Galop to determine the price
of her admission, and the young
swains of the college were espec- |
ially cautious in choosing whom to |
invite.

Did see Miss Gechem Fazer running along the walk, pursued by |
numerous economical males, with |
scales dangling from their arms. |

Did pass on my way a number of
pleasingly plump females, headed
for the offices of the Spectator,

[of the truth of his philosophie, I |{—

 

Early Edition, and carrying sticks,
and bearing signs saying “Down
With The Spectator, Early Edition”
and “We Demand Devaluation of
the Pound”,

Did meet Airwick Bicker, who
was carrying a paint-spraying machine. He did inform me that he
was in charge of the costuming of
the chorus troupe to appear at the
Galop. He did whisper to me confidentially and say, ‘Remember,
Eight Girls, Seven Costumes”’.

Thursday, Jan. 19, 1950 — Did
meet George Drawee and did ask
him if he was going to attend the
Galop. He did sigh and reply that
of late he had not found much interest in the company of damsels
and that, to the contrary, they actually wearied him. He did say, “I
am sick of the entire social set up
of the World”.

Did meet Miss Give from Marmalade Hovel who did tell me of
shameful goings-on there. It
seems that Misses Phlemn, See’er,
and McLearn were creeping about
the Hovel and spying upon anyone
who they thought was acting in a
peculiar manner. It did prove
most embarrasing to some. I did
also hear that many of the damsels
who reside in the Hovel are saying
that for the first time in their lives
they are greatful for the scanty
meals, for they do not weigh as
much as other damsels and thus are
more eligible for invitations to the
Galop.

Did meet McNewsed of the Spectator, Early Edition, who was
sneaking furtively from shadow to
shadow, looking constantly over his
shoulder. He told me _,that the
members of Parliament were considerably provoked over something
he did not write in the Spectator.
He denied having not written this
and claimed that it was all much
ado about nothing. He did espie a
group of members of Parliament
who were carrying ropes, and departed hurriedly.

Did meet next with a member of
the team of players of the new
colonial game, hockie. He did tell
me that the Lord of the Privy Seal
of the King’s Court, Daddy Diehard, had commanded that none of
the members of the Court should
assist the scholars’ team, despite
a treaty by which the Court agreed
to allow its members to do so if
they desired. He said that this
breaking of covenants would lead
to no good and that nobody would
deab with a group which so little
valued its word, and that the pol
icy now being followed was short- North End Branch:
Isighted in the extreme. Convinced

Ae

eS
Meet Your Friends at
THE

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

did resolve better to keep promises
which I myself had made, and went
to a meat vendor’s to buy my wife
some fine tripe for dinner. 
All Dalhousians Can
Eat Cheaply
AT

Evangeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.

Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m, - 12 Midnight

“The Students’ Drug
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and
Sundries, and for unexcelled
Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

Come on Students

Ride In The Best

3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone # Phone
3-7188 3-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

They’re Popular

Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Be sure the famous Birks
Blue Box encloses your
choice.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

Compliments of

JOE and TOM

Diana Sweets
Tea Room

The students recreation centre

NS

kK

'
+e

a ES 4

as ASSN

a NSS
Qi
i i

~S

Se
b> Sa
; SS
WS
>

SZ
i

“Now | know where ‘Fine
rts [’ go for lectures”

oay’,

Egbert can’t see why anyone prefers
Bebop to Bartok or juke joints to music
appreciation lectures. But the one thing
he does understand has bothered everyone from Palestrina to Prokofieff —
money management:

For the past four years he’s been learning “Practical Economics” at “MY
BANK”. Now he shoves away those
sheckels in his Bof M savings account
with metronome monotony — he’s got
the problem of smooth running finances
down to a fine art.

a see Te Tt:

SWS tp UC Ge SOF Cs
Canada's Finat Sank

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY WALK OF LIFE tS he tet ad

Halifax Branch: JOHN A. HOBSON, Mer.

JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mer.
: CHARLES SMITH, Mer.
Quinpool Road and Kline St.: JAMES 'L. MeGERRIGLE, Mer.

 

3 alk ye : i
te Veal ela : He ire bed sepia As
_. 4 we ge :
ids rea, fads Mer: =
  
  

   

Me a i eae a 5 ats
By NOEL GOODRIDGE

Wandering along the walks of Hi ave A Coke eee

Dal, entering through the stately ae 3

portals of its buildings, or gather- Play Re freshed f ;

    
    
 

  
 
 

    
 

as Most HAVE arvk “Hose

4 eco.eare Mavre s ar : ;
— ; : ‘ wees ing in the various meeting places

on the Campus, one sees and hears

many things which are worthy of

comment. Let’s see what there

Re

 
 

   

  
    

* * *

    

Very often credit is not given
where credit is due. Observe the
numerous adverse comments on
last year’s belated year book. How
quickly people seem to have forgotten that the year book for
‘47-48 was published on April 19,
1948, It was the earliest any issue
of Pharos had been published and
up to that time was the best ever
done in the Maritimes. Ron Caldwell, editor, was then in his first
year Law. His references were
the Axe, the Acadian Year book
which he had edited in 746-47.

* * *

  
  
 

   

He ought not to be judged too
severely for the delay in last year’s
Pharos. Many things, such as the
failure of last year’s graduating

60 ¢ PER Man

g
Vat a Pounp Par on. 3

 
  
   
 
  

  
 

ae T-Square
Main news this week is of the
highly successful inter-fac basket_ ball squad, The hoopsters have got
_ off to a good start with two wins
in their first two games. Saturday,
' against a definitely out-played
_ Pre-Med team, the Engineers piled
up 35 to 16, mainly im a sizzling
first half. Play was fast and
eee rough with Don Smith a stand-out
for the winners.

. The Boilermaker’s powerhouse
_ continued its merry way Tuesday
_ with a 35-26 win over Pine Hill.
_ Apparently the Engineers new_ found ascendancy is causing con_ cern in some circles. The Meds
_ were last seen muttering darkly
about “padded schedules” that led
them all unsuspecting into the
_ clutehes of an “unknown” team for
'. one of their opening games. No
_ comment!

Mm 8 8€©— SOC LLeafing through a copy of the
\ Toronto “Varsity” we find mention
}

|

J
}
t

 

   
    
  

  

\ 2 he = ' *
of the annual Engineers Banquet

jae held on that campus recently. It
\ seems that the boys were a little
_ rough, and protests of their behavjour flew thick and fast from an
outraged faculty. The denunci-_ ations followed an old familiar pattern; engineers en bloc labelled as
-“eampus roughnecks” and so on
and so forth. All of which is on a
par with deciding that all Artsmen
_ wear specs and outsize hats, or that
all athletes have a vacuum between
5 eet and left ears. It just ain’t

     
  
  
 

 

 

The Dalhousie Gazette,
America's Oldest

College Newspaper

On January 25, 1869, the “Dalhousie Gazette” made its first appearance on this campus. At that
time it was the only college newspaper in America, whereas there
are now between four and five
hundred.

This famous first edition contained a Salutatory, in which the
two-fold aims of the paper were
stated. They were ‘the Cultivation
of a literary taste among ourselves,
and the establishment of an organ
in which free expression can be
given not only to our own sentiments but to those of others who
may interest themselves in our
progress and prosperity.” The
Salutatory states further that the
Gazette is conducted by the students, although men of some distinction have promised to contribute, among them the Honorable
Mr. Joseph Howe. The annual subscription rate was fixed at the low
price of fifty cents and the paper
would contain four pages to begin
with but would increase if circulation were good.

The contents of the first issue
were scanty. The entire front page
was given to the “Diver”, which

was a ballad in several installments. J.T.M.
there won’t be any buckets of

champagne, we guarantee that no

   
  

phers, are to be considered before
anyone is to be lauded or condemned. Ron says that, in spite
of all, this is going to be the best

  

Maritimes.
/ : * * &

Tne Arts and Science Society
seems to be getting back on its feet
again after its near disintegration

following a controversy arising out |

of the constitution. It appeared
that no one could yote who had not
paid their dues in the Society. As
a result no officers could be elected
to colect the dues. It’s the same
old question—which came first, the
hen or the egg? When the issue
was settled, many sheep came back
to the fold. Interest in the Society
increased. Last Friday night the
Society, undismayed by the unluckiness of the date , held a Gym
dance. The profit, which was over
$75, was in itself enough to indicate the success of the affair.
ms * *

Each Saturday night the Arts
and Science Society holds a dance
in the Men’s Common Room. With
the lack of Saturday night entertainment in this fair city, these
dances have become very popular
among Studley Students, They are
extremely convenient for those who
witness the Saturday basketball
games in the Gym,

* * %

The inereasing success of these
dances is due largely to the efforts
of Erie Richter who has dedicated
himself body and soul to them.
Each Saturday night, with very
few assistants, he sweeps the Common Room, arranges the furniture,

class to go to teh right photogra
sss

year book ever published in the |

 

Py ti

 

‘Coke

TRADE MARK REG

502X

Ask for it either way ... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

 

eured ones and sets up the P. A.:

System; when it is all over, he undoes it all. Erie also works extremely hard for the Publicity
Board.

The cold weather last week
brought another shower of soot
from the Science building as Old
Faithful once again darkened the
Campus with a cloud of filthy
smoke. This is so familiar on the
Campus that it is fast becoming an
institution (like the Dalhousie
Band, éte.) Kings has no such problems. The other day we had the
pleasure of attending a class over
there; it was cold enough to freeze
the handle off aA brass _ potatopeeler in the classroom.

That was the class where George
Tracy, when asked for his interpretation of the word ‘naturae’,
responded with ‘the birds and the

 

ESS

COME TO
THE GAZETTE
GAMBOL MONDAY

 

A FISHY STORY

MONTREAL — (CUP) — Credit
for the most humorous remark of
the CUP conference held here
December 29-31 goes to Clyde Kennedy, Editor-in-Chief of the MeGill Daily.

Kennedy’s witicism:

“You don’t appreciate the McGill
Daily until you have to carry home

  
    
  
  

  
  
   
  
        
     
      

  
       
     
     
   
   
   
       
   
      
   
     

sary to remind you of the Banquet
¥

te to be held next month, and while replaces the bright lights with col- ' bees’.

a wet fish in your bare hands.”

 

 

 

 

 

:
_ so
‘Perhaps after that it is neces|

one will die of boredom!

“This is THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS SERVICE (of Canada)

_ Among our distinguished leaders are Viscount Alexander of Tunis, Governor General of Canada; His Excellency Cardinal MeQuigan; Dr. Sydney
_ Smith, President University of Toronto; Dr. A. L. McKenzie, President, University of British Columbia.

   
   
  
  
  
     
    
   
  
  
 
   

| _ The Dalhousie Campaign is endorsed by Dr. A. E. Kerr, President of Dalhousie University; Dean G. E. Wilson, Faculty of Arts and Science:
| Dean Vincent C. McDonald, Faculty of Law; Dean H. G. Grant, Faculty of Medicine.

i

a.

ony 3 TO THESE ENDS
_ LS.S.—ITS AIMS ARE: — eee

YOUR NEW LS.S. DOLLAR
YOUR DAL GROUP HAS: ee

WILL GO TO:

i oe oe ee mars gaine (A) In co-operation with the university
Kos ing at the university student level. , authorities : ees as
omy r (i) Brought a Czechoslovak student from (A) on and if possible enlarge the
be (B) Assisting students of all races, colours, a DIP camp to Dalhousie and set up a aay eo to sterling
wet or creeds, wherever they may be. scholarship for his maintenance here. area students at Dalhousie.
Oak : | ; (ii) ae ents for a ek (B) Maintain our present D.P. scholarship
moe atvian girl in science to study with a for another year.
re To these end LSS. greatly reduced financial burden.
are 7 ; . ms . P < 100 . ; ’ = . ; att ops
>| (i) roast ayer on ~ rlgyeinc 2) (B) Set up bursaries’ to assist ‘students (C) A contribution to the National office to
oS ba Cie sare atieniied Another is planned from sterling areas who have lost 20% assist In carrying on the relief probss er sok sil en rarer of their income through devaluation. grams.
| ee Rik (C) Sent 4 Dalhousians as delegates to the (D) Conduct investigations being carried
see Gi) a vice ae ee rg ee summer seminars. on by the national office into possibili| __ ates a rest camp at Cambleux for un- | (D) Contributed $2560.00 to the National Bey oie, eee Student, exchange
> dernourished and fatigued students, a office to. help maintain the Interna- oe HE MDERS THEY GrENAES,
hospital for tubercular cases. tional relief program. ‘ (Ek) To develop an interesting program on
Sai s,s Assisted in negotiations now .under
(E) our campus which would stimulate interest in and knowledge of foreign

affairs.

Di stributes searce text books and instr uments among European universities, |
mn. 3 ¥ a”)? at A Sie . = Ss

r ~
be
rat Peve Oy * ey, ss Sat es

    

way for a sizable grant to defray
travelling expenses to the seminar. .

       
 

 

[i

 

‘
7 oe . rik +g i ‘ Ti 2 . hhh # B
BLE ee ge fa ec 5 8s oS Ae J at ee i ek lid ey Pan oui ee
al

a ae
»

dge Technical College In Clos
S '

HOST TO N.S. TOURNAMENT
NOTICE

Classes in Square Dancing
will be held in the Gym Tuesday at 3.30 and on Thursday at

2.30. Everyone is welcome—
boys, girls, Juniors, Seniors—
in fact anyone who wants to

To

Fe gat a *

4 ae ite. ao. a ue
. Pay S iS
ik sae : a
ie ii
~-. ry an a fi oT
4 pa Pe
Pulende Les tal
. . F L eX a US
1 s ee 4 ee = : p
: _a ee, “ Be
. @ iV Ca ( a 4 . i 3 .
* he f
eB. ed Ue a
ee cw, * - he
‘ "a Tt ‘ “=F?
oT , ed y
i ‘ —

p 3

Me i x ei
, r =
. bs
H i ai
3
;

a oe i ,

University -Sponsored Badminton
Meet Begins Today With 200 Entries

Nova Scotia’s first Open Provincial Badminton Tournament will
be held in the Dal Gym January 20 and 21. The tourney will get
underway at 5 p.m. today and continue until late Saturday night, This
events is the first of its kind to be in local badminton circles, and is

‘

Pay age aa ol
;

: ov,
Aa2 ; dere ;
hts ay

pages regarding tonight’s fight between Roy Youters of Vancouver

and Yvon Durelle of New Brunswick, the winner to meet George

a * i
fv. ee er

Lae

oy —_

‘Ross: for the Canadian middleweight title.

e - Undoubtedly Ross is one of the world’s best middleweights.
_ The Ring Magazine, the boxer’s bible, rates him in the first thirty

fighters of his weight. It is significant to note that Wouters barely

© mak es the first two hundred and our friend Durelle, successively
billed as “sensational”, “terrific”, and “leading contender” does not

even appear on the list, which includes over three hundred men. A
couple of months ago Durelle came very close to losing a decision

to Coby McClusky of Dartmouth, the same McClusky that fights
the four-round preliminaries on local fight cards, yet for the past
‘two weeks the sport writers have been boosting Durelle, now Mari‘time champion by virtue of a victory over the aging and notoriously glass-jawed Ace McClusky.

* * * *

_ As has been pointed out so ably by our compatriot, Mr. T. B.
O'Neill, the Halifax papers (or should we say paper) shy away from
taking a definite stand on any matter whatsoever, and the sport columns
certainly follow that policy. It is the press-agents job to bally-hoo
sporting events, and the columnists should stick to giving their readers
an honest opinion of such. If it is the opinion of Mr. Foley and Mr.
Nickerson of the Mail that tonight’s fight is evenly matched, (Durelle
has been fighting professionally for only a year) or that either of the

- participants would stand a chance with Ross, then we can only advise

weight title.

that they make a closer study of the records of these fighters.
a * % *

Why try to pull the wool over the public’s eyes? Give with
the facts and force the promoters into providing better fights.

Personally, we think the Halifax fans are being taken for a
ride.

* * *«* *

Came upon some interesting data in sport announcer Bill Stern’s
column, concerning the athletic careers of world-famous figures. It
seems that Canada Lee, the fine Negro actor who made such a hit in
“Body and Soul”, was once leading contender for the world’s welterHe also has the distinction of being the only Negro ever

_to don make-up and act the part of a white man on the Broadway

stage.

Bill Murray, the successful Rocky Mount football coach learned the
tricks of the game from his own coach, a man who switched from cleats
to clarinets and became famous as one of America’s top band-leaders:
Kay Kyser.

Lou Costello, the comedian, was one of the best basketball players
on the West Coast before he entered the film business.

li, Mt om

*

Woodrow Wilson was the coach of winning football teams at
Wesleyan and Princeton University; Abraham Lincoln was without
peer, in his youth, as a wrestler, and George Washington was the
boxing champion of Virginia before he joined the army.

Another footballer who gained fame as the star guard on the
Amherst College squad, rose to even greater heights as a lawyer.
He was Harlan P. Stone, who became the Chief Justice of the
United States Supreme Court. But what makes this story unusual
is that he was appointed to that position by the man who had
been coach of that Amherst football team, the man who became
the twenty-ninth president of the United States—Calvin Coolidge.

ee oa ee

The hockey squad takes to the ice on Saturday morning for their
first game of the season: an exhibition tilt with the St. Mary’s College
sextet. The D.A.A.C. has had a great deal of trouble arranging for ice
time, and the game is to be played at 10.00 a.m. The team deserves a
lot of credit for the way in which they have responded to overcome

come. (Especially the Freshettes who aren’t appearing at
their regular gym classes).

Junior Hoopsters
Upset Tech Squad

The Dalhousie Junior Tigers
downed the Nova Scotia Technical
Collegians at the Gym last night
to the tune of 45-51. This was
the Tiger’s second win of the
season and, due to their win over
the more experienced Technicians,
we have reason to believe that
they have come out of their recent
slump.

Pat Kyte, Tech’s tall, rangy centre was high man of the game
scoring a total of 17. points.
Claney and Garson were the big
men for the Tiger’s, racking up 12
and 10 points respectively.

The game was closely contested
by the Tech-men throughout, and
at one time they were successful
in tieing the score at 37-37. The
Bengals roared back however, and
at the closing buzzer the scoreboard read 45-41 in favor of the
Junior Bengals.

K * *%

In one of the fastest and roughest games of the current Inter-Fac
Basketball season the Arts and
Science team defeated the Commerce aggregation 37-33. The A.
and Se. took an early lead and
were successful in holding it until
the dying minutes when the Commercemen threatened with a great
rush of power. High man of the
game was Gerry McCurdy with 13
points followed by Fancy with 7.
The final score was 87-33 in
‘favor of the Arts and Science
‘team.

* * %

| The “B” Team (the girls that
Miss Evans is saving for next
year) won their first game of the
season when they turned back the
Y.W.C.A. girls by the _ lopsided
'score of 12-02. The low scoring of
ithe “Y” girls can be attributed to
the excellent guarding by Joan
MeCurdy and Nita MacDonald.
The forwards also played well,
with Joan Baxter turing in a
standout performance.

 

under the sponsorship of the University.

be held every year, if possible.

Badminton stars from all over

If it is suecessful, it will

the Maritimes will be participat
ing. A large number of enthusiasts from Dal will be playing, including Noel Hamilton, Doug Rouse, Joe Levison and Heather Mac
Kinnon.

Also in the line-up of local stars are. the Longard sisters—

Annie and Gladys, and the Bauld brothers.

Big Game With
X-Men Planned

The day is drawing close. In
the not too distant future the
biggest hoop game of the year will
be played at the Dal Gym. Predictions of the outcome of the battle
are being tossed back and forth.
Odds are being quoted and money
is being wagered like water, Every
game played until that date will
only be a building up of tension
for the “big one”’.

You have already guessed who
are opponents by now. None other
than the X men of St. Francis
Xavier University of Antigonish.

The word going round the campus is that “this is the year we
take ‘X’”. Butsy O’Brien, a conservative from way back, has even
gone as far as saying that he will
treat the Tigers to steak dinners if
they emerge victorious.

Confidence is very good, but
over-confidence can lead to our
downfall. Dalhousians, let’s not
“eount our chickens before they
are hatched”. Word leaking out of
“xX” territory has it that the
Xavier hoopsters are as strong, if
not stronger than last year’s
squad which beat Sault Ste. Marie
for the Dominion Intermediate
crown,

The X-men are currently on
their annual tour through New
Brunswick and the State of Maine
and are playing against top flight |
competition. As of yet not too
many results of the games played
are known by your reporter but I
do know that the X-men have
beaten a strong Saint John team.

Playing against good teams can |
do no harm. In basketball circles |
there is an old saying that “it’s
better to lose to a great team than
rolling over a poor one”.

The fact can not be disputed |
that with the exception of the
Saint John Atlantics, the Vita-men |
have not seen good competition. |
Our easy victories over Stah anr |
Shearwater must be riscounter.

——

Annie Longard and Noel Hamilton, who team up to form the
Maritimes Mixed Doubles champion team, will be displaying their
talent. The matches in which they
take part will be well
watching,

The semi-finals will be played
on Saturday afternoon, and the
finals will be run off on Saturday
evening. Prizes will be presented
to the winners by Dr. A. E. Kerr,
President of the University.

So far approximately one hundred and eighty-eight entries have
been received. This certainly shows
how prominent a position badminton has attained in the local sports
circles. Approximately six matches
will be played off at once, so let’s
hope that the bleachers will be as
full as the floor. You’ll be able to
see some really top play, and perhaps learn a few pointers about
badminton. All Dal students will
be admitted for the small fee of
10 cents.

steak dinners they will have to
work anr train a little harder
than usual. But don’t get me
wrong. I’m 100% behind the

Tigers.

at the Right Price
for Young Men

worth |

£

numerous obsstacles. Two mornings a week they turn out at the Arena | (R.M:)
at 7.00 am. In order to attend the noon-time practices many of them |
have to miss dinner. A number of outstanding players have been declared ineligible, and others have left to play for Kings. However, according to Manager MacInnes, and Coach “Knobby” Carleton, everything is going well, and the Gold and Black should put up a creditable
showing against St. F.X. and Acadia.

The least we can do is get out and cheer for the team on
Saturday. Things are tough enough for the boys. Don’t let them
think that their efforts are going unappreciated. With the proper
type of support we could have a winner.

If the Dal hoopsters want to eat

a\\

Dal Girls “A’”’ Squad Crushes St.
Pats Girls 34-9 In Hoop Tilt

ye \

In a scheduled league game last Thursday night the Dal “A” squad |
smashed the St. Pat’s team by a score of 34-9. Marilyn MacIntyre |
and Betty Cousins were the stars of the game, putting in 30 of the |
34 pts. between them. Mariyn tossed in 19 and “Cuz” put up 11. These
two starry forwards are really a great team and if the pace at which |
they are travelling now is any indication of “things to come”, they
should be really terrific by the time Intercollegiate play rolls around. |
Gay Esdale is playing on this line and is working in very well. Her
shift from guard to forward was a wise move. Franny Doane and
Gay notched up the 4 other points for Dal.

Lucy Calp and Betty Petrie were the main-stays on the guard
line. Lucey, calm and cool, as usual, was right in there for all the
rebounds.

The “A” team has really improved tremendously since they
last encountered St. Pat’s, in that
game, they won by the slim margin
of three points. An _ increased

 

* % * *

By the way, thanks to Mr. Fred Kelly for revising the Intercollegiate schedule. The original one would have forced the squad
to abandon their Newfoundland trip.

_ The basketball quintet continues to rule the hoo league, undefeated in seven games, and the old smoothie, Charlie Connelly,
continues to star. Mr. Mr. Vitalone we hear that in the last four
games Chuck has been sinking 73 per cent of his shots. His season’s average is over 60 per cent. A topnotch pro in the States gets
about 35 per cent. The team average, 30 per cent, is on a par with
the best of American teams.

 

Tuesday there will be a game
with the Q.E.H.S. grads and on
: Wednesday the home and home
— rrr series with Kings will get under

NOTICE

.

a

Earth.” Mr. A. R. Reid, the sec
Ss

%

Ae
he *
ay 4

°
an

Seen

; thesis of Carbohydrates by Use of |
“The Chemistry and Physics} Acetylenic Precursors”.
Journal Club will meet in the Phy
sies Theatre on Tuesday, January

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the
Psychology Club, held at Shirreff
Hall, at 8 p.m., Tuesday, Jan. 24th.
Two films will be shown.

24 at 5 p.m. The first speaker,
Mr. J. E. Blanchard, will discuss
“The Magnetic Field Within the

nd speaker, wil deal with “Syn" ; as, 4 = : 4 as es.
eee SLO ty ae
CERT Nain yk vs
4 i r i hi i ED a ha ‘its a

margin of 22 pts. is nothing”to be
easily overlooked, The “A” ball
handling has taken a_ definite
change for the better, - This is due
to the patient efforts of Andy
MacKay and “Arpy”- Robertson,
who are helping to put the team
through their paces at the noontime practices.

way. Coach “Red” Findlay of the
Kings teams has been seen “snooping”, so let’s hope he hasn’t found

out too many trade secrets.

The Dal girls will go all out to
win this series, as the triumphant
team will make a pilgrimage up
to Acadia on the 4th of February
to meet the Axettes.

 
