  

|
|
|

" eS a SS eee

 

 

 

(ee Ad he ;

s ‘ a _ h. ,
Ze. on a ee. | CI
f ala os:

_

 

 

~HARTLING, WILLA ‘SEELEY TO APPEAR IN “OTHELLO”

NF ‘CUS to eee Student Pichance writs’ U. S. A.

 

LAST

GAZETTE

BEFORE
EXAMS

 

Vol. LXXXII

LS.S.
STUD

—_—_— os

 

 
 

  

ISS Tag. Day.
has persuaded Peter Doig to give generously to the cause.

 

THE

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N.

 

One of the sixty girls tagging for ISS. Judy MacKeen

Gazette Photo by Saberman

 

Major Parts Chosen for Glee Club
Presentation of “Othello”

Engineers Hold

Successful Dance

‘the Othello — cast
over the weekend.

Most of the main characters in
were released
There are still
many minor and a few major parts

to be chosen, but the leads are as
| follows:—

'

Featured by a self-styled radio |

program at intermission, the 49)

edition of the Boilermakers’ Boost
er was held last Friday evening |
from 9 until 1 at the Gym. The)

attendance was close to 300 with
Engineers and their friends dominating the scene.

Les Single’s orchestra was in
splendid form and the hit tunes
were arrayed to the dancers from
start to finish. A spot dance was
held and was won by two lucky
people. The prize was a Chicken
Dinner. (Yum, yum). Naturally to
suit the occasion the Engineers got
together, all five of them, and gave
their Engineers Yell. Copy of
it may be seen in the Students’
Directory.

With the Booster packed up for
another year, the draughtsmen can
go back to their Drawing labs and

Mech courses refreshed by a dance | Harris,
that not only they enjoyed but| Cameron, Randy Erdman, Pete Al-|

everyone else who attended.

Notice

November eheques for DVA students will be issued on Tuesday
and Wednesday, November 29-30
at the following hours, ON THE
HOUR: 10 a.m., 11 a.m., 12 noon,
2 p.m., 3 p.m., 4 p.m.

Othello—Art Hartling
lago—George Tracey
Cassio—Robin McNeil
Desdemona—Villa Jean
Emelia—Holly Fleming
The play looks good so far, but a
big east is required. Many more
people are needed. However, the
Glee Club expects to have the cast
settled before the end of the term

Seeley

Skid Row Holds First
Annual Formal Friday

Friday evening last the grand

chapter of Skid Rho held its an
nual formal. The dance was held
this year in the Sigma Chi house
through the good offices of ‘the
local chapter.

A full grand chapter muster was
realized: Bob Grant, Al Smith, Alf
Mason MacDonald, Bob

| ward, Skin Peterie, Bob Beer. and

| Jack Ross.

Highlight of the evening was
the Premier Performance by coauthors Al “skad” Smith and Pete
“Colonol” Alward of a_ special
ballad about Skid Rho members. A
token bottle of Reims Champagne
was sent by the place Pig Alley
chapter of Paris as a gesture. It
was recognized in the spirit in
which it was given.

 

, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1949

LAST
GAZETTE

Y ow'll
EVER SEE

No. 17

 

HOLDS TAG DAY IN AID OF
ENTS HiT BY DEVALUATION

Sn —_—_-—_ © *

*

Over Four Hundred Dollars Raised by Tag
Day; to be Distributed Among Sterling
Area Students After Christmas Vacation

 

Potetent Coffin to

The International Student Service held a very successful
'tag day on Saturday, with over sixty girls canvassing the

city. A sum of $404.74 was ees from this undertaking.
Attend Meet at U of T This tag day was held

Professor C. C.
housie University will
The Royal Society of Canada at the devaluation of the pound.
formal opening of the new Chemistry Building at the University of
Toronto.

Papers of extreme interest to
the chemical world will be deliver- |
ed by some of the Continent’s| ’

; ead : Dalhousie
foremost scientists. The opening i
hated : <]l com-| mesday, Nov.
and the general congress will com :
mence on December 1 and continue! the Chemistry Theatre. After a
for three days. short business meeting there will

SPs J.-E. Johnstone will repre-| be films. “Big things are planned
sent Dalhousie University at this for this year and we need the parevent. The Governor-General is to|

 

Pre-Med Notice

There wilt be a meeting of the
Pre-Medical this

80th at 7:30 p.m. in

ticipation of

be Guest of Honour at a dinner to| Come this Wednesday at

connection | to the Chem Theatre.
i

7.30 p.m.
be given at Hart in
with the ceremony.

 

The Library is crowded these days with industrious students hoping to
make a first Div in everything. Miss Clements is hoping that information in the Gazette will help her, perhaps.

(Steff phota by Marshall)

NFCUS Plans Exchange Between
Canadian and American Universities

At a meeting held recently, preliminary action was taken by the|and entrance requirements are to
N.F.C.U.S. committee to put into| be left to the discretion of the unieffect a Canadian-American ex- | versity concerned.
change plan at Dalhousie. | Due to past experience, it has

The conditions under which such; been deemed advisable to require
an exchange could be completed | applicants for such an exchange to
were drawn up by the University |find suitable substitutes for the
of Western Ontario
committee and a copy of these con-| ted to withdraw their application.
ditions was submitted to the regis-| Since the exchange is made directtrar of this University for ap- | ly with a student at an American
proval. These conditions include a/| college, the need for such a rule is
stipulation that students wishing | obvious.

 

 

should pay tuition fees, board ete. | and

at their home _ university, and| plan,
should return to their own univer-| year’s
sity for their final year. Such| the scheme greater success,

co-operation,

tes . —®

Wed- |

all pre-med students. |

matters as the credits for courses |

N.F.C.U.S.| exchange before they are permit
Last year ,a late start,
to take advantage of the scheme | coupled with a lack of publicity
hampered the|

by the ISS in aid of students
Coffin of Dal-| attending Dalhousie who come from sterling-area countries
represent |and whose income has been cut by one-quarter by the recent

Plans are not_yet finalized for
distribution of this money and the
;}amount of bursaries and _ their
amounts have not been decided. It
‘is expected that the bursaries will
be distributed shortly after Xmas.

The tag day was organized by
an ISS committee consisting of the
Dalhousie ISS Chairman, Joe Levison, Newcomb
Tracey,
mie and

Bloomer, George
Murray TolAdviser, Mose

Renee Fisher,
Faculty
Morgan.

| The largest amount realized was
$30.87 which was collected by
| Marge Yeadon and Jan Robertson.
'The response shown by the stu| dents was fairly good. Much grati|tude is extended to those girls who
| helped by selling tags.

January 6, the ISS
open house in the
Gymnasium. Renate Fisher will
give a detailed report on the ISS
Seminar; Sascha Liga, DP Student,
will be introduced to the students
| present; and after a report of this
activities the agenda for
next year will be announced. A
dance will be held afterwards.
There will be no admission charge.

On Friday,
'will hold an

y Je
years

 

Oslo University to
‘Hold Summer School

Oslo will

| The University of
session for

again hold a summer
American and Canadian university
|students with credit for their
sophmore year. The session will
‘open about June 26 and the clos|ing date will be August 5, 1950.

All elasses will be conducted in
|'English, and an American Dean of
Students will be included on the administrative staff.

The course of study is as follows:—

(a) A General Survey of Nor
wegian Culture.

(b) Courses in Norwegian History, Language, Literature
and the Arts.

(c) Special Courses on the Norwegian political and social
sciences and economics.

Six credits may be earned during

the six-week course.

The University is prepared to
house two-hundred and fifty stu'dents and meals may be obtained
on the campus. In addition to

_ afternoon field trips and museum

but it is hoped that this | visits there will be guided weekend
better planning will assure |excursions to places of scenic and

(Continued on page four)

 

 

ee eee ee en

eS eee i
IC. A's “OLDEST C COLLEGE PAPER |
nber Canadian University Press

cea week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie

7. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the

ats’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
aie: eee. eee N. S.

x

. .Editors-in-Chief
..Managing Editor

DMT EET 2. 1 vp ais Sets er eens sss os ., Advertising Manager
iv “ee ie Ale #lSA eit d aor, a idl SOL @ nO 1S Ce VIAl6 we aw 6 16).0 Office Manager
Dre Uris ease ele ee dn ak oes She Wie ts C.U.P. Editor

foe STAFF

ee cd aes ca *....Sports Editors

i. . Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
ir lad Be ets Ror k aie ...Barbara MeGeogh, Eliphal Nichols

—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
- Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
_ Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

Photgrapher

RNs Unt, ae PER Dan ...Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
Lucy Calp
Ua cascsvcescsssvyeee. Gloria Horne, Rona Yess

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1949. No. 16

THE WHEEL IS COME FULL FORCE.
oe The GAZETTE wishes to correct certain errors made.in its

ae of the speech by the President of the Council of Students
a ‘to the: student forum last Thursday. ’

_ With reference to the various materal contributions made by
“the university to student affairs, the news report stated “these
_ contributions were made through necessity rather than willingFae ness to co-operate.” Mr. Moreira’s statement was not to that
es sii be effect. He said rather that “apart from these contributions” the.
- attitude of the university has not been one to encourage extra- curricular activities,

ees The account also failed to mention the brief to be drawn up

Gen during the Christmas vacation by Mr. Moreira and Mr. Alton
Lomas, Vice-President of the Council of Students. This brief is
to be presented to the authorities for consideration.

_ The GAZETTE regrets, the misrepresentations conveyed by

, e: Bra: iat - The GAZETTE also supports Mr. Moreira in the stand taken
; re pit in his speech to the students. As he pointed out, Mr. Moreira
i gained office on the strength of a platform of co-operation with
the powers-that- -be, but after several] months of vain attempts to
z secure harmony, he can see no alternative but to put the situa1 Gatien before the Council of Students and the students at large,
__-and to present a statement of attitude to these powers.

‘Some members of the student body who were present at the
_ forum criticized Mr. Moreira on two scores. Firstly, they said,
ad "even though his opinions and facts may be absolutely correct,
they should not be aired in public. A weaker attitude could
hardly be found ! ! ! Student forums are precisely the occasions
‘Airing which such matters should be brought to light.. No man
Should continually sacrifice convictions to expediency, and to
eal judge by past performance, it is even doubtful that expediency
would be served by further sacrifice of convictions.

A great number of students failed to recognize the instances
_ of lack of co-operation mentioned by Mr. Moreira. They point
with pride and a secure knowledge that they are on the more
powerful side to the various material contributions of the
_-—suniversity—renovation of the football field, plans for a rink,
mT 2 jr: basketball stands, and the hiring of a physical directer and
ground hockey coach. But they have not been told, and have been
reins too disinterested in any but their own affairs, to see the numerae ous examples of non-coperation that are all too obvious to others.

The only flaw in Mr. Moreira’s argument was his correlation of university attitude with college spirit. He said, “the
university, whether on purpose or not, has gone as far as it can
to suppress college spirit without provoking it”. If a sufficient
amount of spirit—and a bare minimum, at that—existed in the

_ first place, any suppression, however, small, would aggravate
_ that spirit and bring it forth in wholehearted resistance. We
ft believe there are more fundamentl weaknesses within Dalhousie’s
organization than university attitude.

Some of that weakness may lie in the general layout of the

campus, which prevents the more highly organized, and, in

_ general, the older student groups from being in close contact with

_ the center of affairs.. Granted, the more interested of those

Pi _ Students still take part in activities on Studley, but spirit comes
from the group, not from its leaders,

es Another cause of weakness may lie in the general admini
_ stration of sports facilities. The condition of the football field—

| and that was certainly the university’s responsibility — forced
college teams to practice and play in fields owned by everybody

: and his brother. The handling of time allotments in the gymLe “nasium is also unsatisfactory, as has been pointed out. Only

F ps ‘these two features are directly attributable to present university
attitude.

So the problem breaks down into three. individual but overtapping parts:

| le ul hi The general layout of the university—no fault of present
Ee fal -administration—is not conducive to spirit.

. J u | ¥ The: senaintstbeition of certain facilities—definitely a matter
A = ¢ rres nt Cert ce - conducive to met

bes ks Shs oa
> ore re
SE. 5) aha SPR se 2)

Friday, November 25

A national calamity is upon us!
Civil war and strife do threaten
the Commonwealth. It doth seem
that Less Ozone, the Prime Minsster, did rise in Parliament and
announce that the lack of patriotism and the low morale of our
fighting men was caused by the
obstructive attitude of the Upper
House, who he did charge consider
more the opinions of foreigners
than of their own subjects. He did
announce that a Petition of Rights
will be drawn by himself and the
Speaker of the House, Allton Lowmess, which is to be presented to
His Majesty Otto I, and the House
of Lords. I fear this may lead to
another civil strife between Parlia
ment and Lords and none know}.

the outcome.

Saturday, November 26

Endeavoring to put out of my
mind the dismal prospects before
us, I went a-walking in the town.
Everywhere I went I saw young
damsels from Marmalade Hovel
soliciting funds for the AINT,
from those unwary enough to approach them. One of these, Miss
Wasabelle Bustle, did wear a
bright crimson cloak, and some
who approached her did ask if the
donations were for Uncle Joe. She
did reply “Yes”, for Joe Light
daughter is the head of the AINT,|

and is a friendly person, and while
he is not yet an uncle, the wenches
of the Hovel do regard him so.

Did hear that Miss Stevesdaughter was giving a kiss for
each donation to the AINT, and so
did hasten thence to watch the
spectacle of silly old men making
fools of themselves. There did
meet one Murphey Hoggins, and
after did go-with him to the college
on the hill where we did find
Lightsdaughter opening the boxes
of his assistants and counting the
monies therein. His manner was
thus: “One for them, one for me,
and one for kitty”. I did wonder
if he could mean the wench I had
in mind.

News . . . Views
‘ano Jottings

Student’s Forum

It has been a long time since
there was anything at Dal that

-|was as much discussed as last

Thursday’s Student Forum. There
was a good crowd on hand to witness the first Forum of the year.
This could have been due to a
number of reasons, and one of
them might be that at last there
are some decent seats in the Gym.
Previous to the forum there had
been a lot of speculation as to the
subjects to be discussed, and surely
no one was disappointed with
what they heard.

—

Book Discount

Toronto—(CUP) —St. Michael’s
College at University of Toronto
is up in arms against the McMillan
Publishing Company. It appears
that the company will not allow the
students the customary’ ten per
cent discount at the Toronto University bookstore. As a result the
Council of Students has been asked to advise the faculty “that they
remove from the reading list as far
as possible, all MacMillan books
and that the college takes any further action that it deems fitting to
support the policy of the Bookstore action” The students have
been promised the support of the
President of the Student Council.

re

|Red Faced Freshmen...

There must have been two very

embarrassed freshmen at the bas- |

ene on Page arte)

ae if

or E a
=) toh ¥
>, he os

eager yn

we Shar oo tr

GREEN LANTERN

“The sign of a good
meal”

407-409 Barrington St.

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

Phinneys Limited

456 Barrington St. sd i
Where you will find a FYp | Ny
complete Music Service CANADA'S FINEST

and the finest CIGARETTE
Sports Equipment

Two of Canada’s
They’re Popular Great an

The Dalhousie .rings with The Halifax
gold crest on black onyx stone ' _
are the popular choice. Chronicle-Herald
In stock at Birks. AND

The Halifax
Henry Birks & Mail-Star

Sons © Limited °
ALL THE NEWS

ALL THE TIME
Registered Jeweller, A.G.S. «

Halifax, N. S. Circulation Over
100,000 Daily

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. 5S.
79 Upper Water St.

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical.
and Metallurgical Engineering

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

DALHOUSIE. UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES

Degrees of:

Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Nursing Science

Bachelor of Commerce Bachelor of Science

Bachelor of Education Master of Arts

Bachelor of Music Master of Science
Diplomas in:

Education Hospital Pharmacy

Engineering Mining Geology

Engineering Physics Music

Food Technology Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry
The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE aon OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas
Health Nursing, Teaching and Aduinaeration Public

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 available to

C cote of Ste it ah — from High Schools or Junior
olleges 0 e Maritime Provinces, and award

of educational attainments. rded on the basis

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full informati
courses, residence facilities, and dates of registration. fees.

 
   
  
   
       
    
      
       
    
        
     
       
     
     
 
  

  

 
   

    
 
 
 

aS ee
|
eo
cs

RU
DALHON
oTvOe
BobY

  

i£
T.

 

 

 

   
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
     

we

> Do You Smoke?
Wp The Good Man wants his women

 

ro like his pipe—something he bete eomes attached to, knocks gently

(Continued from Page Two) but lovingly, fondles in a dreamy

_ ketball game on Saturday night. sentimental mood, and gives the

vat half time the two trusting souls| greatest care and consideration.

j _ left their seats in order to go and A man will give you a cigarette,
get a coke. Apparently thep ex- offer you a cigar,—but he never
pected to come back and find their} Shares his pipe.

‘seats still empty, but instead they From The Argosy Weekly
_ found them oceupied by two gentle-| Bad Men want their women to be
mena great deal older than them-| like cigarettes—slender, trim, to be
| ..selves. This didn’t seem to phase | selected without much thought, set

(ae

them because they went up to the|aflame, and when the flame has
vo gentlemen and informed them | subsided, discarded.

the seats were taken. Their} The Fastidious Man wants his
s however did not take it upon] women like a cigar. They are more
nselyes to move, and the fresh-| expensive, make a better appeara stood for the remainder of the} ance, last longer; and after all, if
ne. While thus standing and|the brand is good, they are seldom

i

ling very uncomfortable any-| discarded.
way, they were informed that the
\ two gentlemen that they had tried
to oust from the seats were Dr. OXFOR D
_ Kerr and Mr. Ray Smith. ‘The
presents .
“OLIVER TWIST”
and

_ Freshmen did it again!
oh 7
“ACT OF VIOLENCE
Mon, - Tues. - Wed.

“MY DREAM IS YOURS”
and
“FEUDIN’, FUSSIN’ AND
A-FIGHTIN’ ”

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.

Ne ¥ 5 - Views eee

  
   
 

      
 
  
     
  
  

"
yes

     
   
   
   
     
   
     

Lt a

PATI Ws:

—§ «pancinG
ff saATURDAY

ee
yal
Mf. ™ ‘i

: wes
.

Bis de §
Nees

wee

 

COMPLETE LINES
~ of all

f | Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

| REID SWEET
. | PHOTO SUPPLIES
9% Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

   
   

CASINO

Beginning Wednesday

“SWORD IN
THE DESERT”

 
  
  
      

starring

Dana ANDREWS
Martha TOREN
Steven McNALLY

 GAUVIN &
GENTZELL
| PHOTOGRAPHERS
ie and

| BLUE PRINTING

884% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992.

 

Corsages

. =| “The Students’ Drug
ij2e.. BEORE”

__ inyites_you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
_ | Shaving Needs, Magazines and
| Sundries, and_ for unexcelled
| Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

4
b aoe eh

 

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
‘speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

   
     

 

T
‘
5
Pe
\

|
“\n

        
   
   
  

Meet Your Friends at
THE

Riviera Restaurant

85 Spring Garden Road

 
 

 

or hia

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

On Wednesday, November 16th,
the Dalhousie Medical Society held
a meeting to receive the auditors
report. We hear that President W.
M. Chisholm is trying to find some
way to thank the six or seven, who
showed up, for their interest in the
work of the Society.

It seems that the figure quoted
for evaluation and devaluation was
incorrect. .The profit was only
$2.42. (But still a profit.)

This fall, through the work of
R. M. Webster and C.A.M.S.I.,
films have been shown every Tuesday 1:30 - 2:25 P.M. These films
have been well chosen and have
been made doubly valuable by
commentaries by various staff
members. Bob’s assistant in this
work is Ken O’Reagan. They both
deserve a vote of thanks.

Talk of the Med Ball has been
heard and plans are already in the
making for a bigger and better
Med Ball. Watch for the date.

Now we come to something not
quite so pleasant. Windy O’Neill,
in his “Campus Roundup”, had a
little too much to say about Dalhousie’s Medical School and its
school spirit. On behalf of many
Medical Students, who have

‘| spoken to me, I should like to in
vite Toronto Maple Leaf’s greatest
piano player to demonstrate to us
how he would arrange 30-35 hours
elasses per week, do sufficient
home study to pass the courses,
and star in hockey, football, or
basketball. It is time that those
people who have nothing to do but
gripe about other people’s activities should settle down and take a
course that requires a little more
time.

Nobody in medicine has the idea
that they will be failed if they participate in sport. For Mr. O’Neill’s
edification, the Medical Students
are mostly veterans, many of
whom have wives and families and
feel their duty is to study to become efficient doctors and leave
the flag waving for the ‘humanities” (as Mr. O’Neill puts it).

Speaking of interfaculty sport,
Mr. O’Neill mentions football, but
why not speak of basketball. I
feel certain that if this year’s law
basketball team is as bad as last
year’s, they could use some of Mr.
O’Neill’s energy. (Preferably physical, not oral).

We now come to another mute
topic—“Why do the Medical Students have such difficulty in procuring the use of the basketball
floor of the gymnasium? There are
around 250 Medical Students pay
Jing Student Council fees and it

seems that if nobody else wants
the Gym, we can use it. What do
we get for our money? When we
finally do get permission to use
the floor, the gym seems “crowded” with people and basketballs.
The said persons not being members of the Dalhousie Medical
School. Enough said.

 

in Defense of the Gazette

This week a student poll was
taken on the Dalhousie Gazette,
and the many comments, especially
on how this traditional college
paper could be improved, are to be
found on this page. The results,
while satisfying and as a whole
constructive, do bring out a strong
point. Almost all the students

=

Dear Ma,

A terrible thing has happened at
Dalhousie and everyone is in
mourning, wearing black. The examination time-table better known
as the death warrant has been
posted. It is an innocent but somewhat complicated sheet of paper—
telling you at what hours you commune with the gods. “YE gods!
Archeology 18 and Chemistry 54
conflict! Let me at the registrar’s
office!” The big burley soph
plunged his way out of the crowd
and made a broken field dash for
the door. Another rasped, “Lord
have mercy! My three toughest all
on the last day!” Then he passed
out and his friends carried him off
as he frothed at the mouth. These
scenes frightened me terribly, Ma;
if this is what happens now, what
is it like in April? I mustered my
courage, however, and went to see
how my own time-table looked. I
am very lucky, Ma,—I only write
two a day for three days. After I
convalesce at the Victoria General
for a week or so I’ll be home for
my vacation,

I am afraid that I have little
else of excitement to tell you, except that my skin has now turned
a yellowish-green, as the doctor
predicted. My little girl from Shirreff Hall says I look like a lemon
now, but she kisses me good-night,
because she likes lemons better
than cucumbers. People gossip
terribly at -Dalhousie: here I’ve
been taking her out only 3 or 4
times a week for the past six
weeks, and already there are rumours that we’re going “steady”.
Back home, Ma, remember I took
out Kathleen McGilliguudy 248
times (in two years, that is) before
people said we were going kind a’
steady. The gossipy neighbours at
Shirreff. Hall gave me an awful
scare a few nights ago. At two
seconds before twelve they shouted
from a_ second floor window,
“Break it up, or we’ll have to set a
wedding date.” I went home.

The last two weeks I have spent
a lot of time studying real hard.

 

er from Sylvester

In fact I worked so late the other
night I had to fill the kerosene
lamp three times. It’s kind of
awkward studying over that door
which I put on my bed as a desk.
As a result I’ve been walking with
my back curved like a banana this
week. That door knob still jabs me
in the ribs every time I reach for
the ink. The temperature in my

room has been going down in direct |

proportion, as my skin has been
turning back to normal. I don’t

mind it\when I get into my sleep- |

ing bag (war assets), but it’s awfully hard to write when my hands
get so cold and numb. Every second Sunday when I change my underwear and practically suceumb
from frostbite, I swear to return
to the Chem Lab and dye myself
green again. Ah, what I wouldn’t
give to scare hell out of my landlady again.

On Thursday last I attended. the
“Student Forum” where the president of our Student Council made
a radical and fiery speech. The
spectators listened in silence and
awe, but secretly I think they much
prefer watching basketball. Some
vociferous students said they did
not like the president’s views and
told him what he should do with
them. “Go to the—senate?” one
said. I guess ‘the—senate” must
be some secret cuss-word which I
haven’t heard before. Many argued
about the Pharos, which I always
thought was an ancient lighthouse
which has long since perished, and
is now a subject for classical
scholars. At Dalhousie it seems,
however, that they publish a new
controversial book about it every
year,

The thermometer reads 28°
fahrenheit and my fingers are so
numb that I cannot write anymore.
Give my regards to. Bossie, Ma,
and tell Pa to save some moonshine
for New Years. Last year he drunk
it up the day after Xmas.

Mama’s boy,
SYLVESTER

P.S.—Please increase my allowance by 5c per week. Kerosene has
gone up in price.

 

 

Student Poll Initiated
This week we are introducing a Students’ Poll to the
readers of the “Gazette”. We hope to make this a weekly
feature in which we shall present a cross section of campus
opinion on current issues of special interest to the students of

Dalhousie. The results of this poll should produce a fair idea
of the feeling of the majority of the student body.

We think that it is only fitting
to start with a poll on the
“Gazette” itself, so with this in
mind we have approached a number of students and asked them the
two questions on this week’s poll.
The results are printed below, but
the names of the students have
been omitted by their request.

We are definitely interested in
subjects for future polls, and anyone wishing to find the trend of
student thought on any subject of
general campus interest is asked to
submit them to the Features Editor of the “Gazette”.

WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE?
—The “Gazette” is a good col
lege paper.

 

did, it would greatly reduce the
number of hours that the present
staff must spend each week on the
Gazette, and the material would be
so diversified that every phase of
eampus life woul dbe covered and
the paper itself would benefit.

 

polled were only too happy to pass}

on their opinions on’ the Gazette,
but one student’s reply was quite
others. He said that although he
different from the majority of the
did have a few criticisms of the
paper, he felt that it was not his
place to criticize as he had done
nothing to contribute to the Gazette, and it was a college paper,
belong to all the students, and not
only to those few who donate so
much of their time and effort into
the publication of this paper twice
a week.

The Gazette appreciates the constructive criticism offered by the
students for this poll, but the fact
remains that there are many students on the campus with a wealth
of newspaper ability who are not

| using this definite asset. If they

“gc a “
5 ‘ a

i

‘tie “ah Oat aye Be oy
ea hi ; ais: Piery

ja tle z =
a lh Pras a
mF ges i i ais a; ne

Come on Students

Ride In The Best

3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone Re Phone
3-7188 3-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

 

Compliments of

JOE and TOM

. Diana Sweets
Tea Room

The students recreation centre

 

  

 

—It has a good coverage of
University news.

—I think it’s all right and I do
like Windy O’Neil’s “Campus
Round-Up”.

—I like “Sam Peeps”.

—‘Sam Peeps” is too long.

—Cartoons are restricted to definite incidents which only certain people know about.

—The headlines are too disorganized,

—Alumni opinion: the “Gazette”
is our only contact with the
alma mater... we’re unable to
get an idea of what is going
on all over the campus. The
general spirit of the college
does not seem to be reflected
in the paper.

HOW COULD IT BE IMPROVED?

—The “Gazette” should come out
once a week with a larger and
better issue,

—Givé me more “Sylvester”.

—I would like to see a little
more personal news of students, especially freshmen.

—There should be more editorials like “Fact and Fiction”.

—Two papers a week keeps up
with the news, but I would pre
fer a bigger issue once a week.

—TI think there should be a wider
coverage of student activities.

All Dalhousians Can
Eat Cheaply

AT
Evangeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.

Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m, - 12 Midnight

 

   

 

 

 
 

 

   
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
    
 
  

*

; Kerr, erstwhile Gazette sports editor and reporter has come back

adia and the Glace Bay-Axemen game full of gen for the Pros and
tripewriter. The gist of an hour’s conversation was that Acadia in
the McCurdy cup merited the win. Don’s opinion was that the

the Legionnaires fullback tried to run out a kick from behind
ne unsuccessfully. He was downed and on the following five yard
orne White carried the ball over to provide the winning margin.

e sidelights on the game occupied about half of the interview. Young
in was particularly impressed with the willingness of Cadogan, a
Bay Bye, to stop McVicar. Glace Bay coach Mel Sheppard yelled over
m to stop MeVicar and Cadogan yelled back in all seriousness, “Will
).K. if I kick him in the head”? Ah me, these Cape Bretoners

+ *£ €£ & €O

n a stellar performance with Ian “coach” Palmeter swinging the gate.
hile the juniors lack the polish and experience that last year’s team had
> thi ; time, nevertheless, this corner expects that when playoff time comes
ound another Maritime Junior championship will be on the way to Dal\

* “ * *

ae + Particularly impressive was the shooting and steady play of Doug
ra Clancy.. A member of the Black Panthers last year this lad is going to
A make a big contribution to the squad. Sol Garson also came up with a
te standout performance, His passing was unexcelled.

night's, this club is going to be hard to beat. As far as varsity prospects

are concerned it is a little early yet to venture opinions, but there is cer| a tainly no end of material. Good coaching can insure Dal a stockpile of
_ players for years to come. As far as this year is concerned the juniors, with
__ vets like Dee Shaw to rely on, can take care of themselves.

ww,

oa
"re

* ¥ * *

ae We notice that the varsity hockey squad is having its first practice
this Thursday afternoon at the Arena. As always enthusiasm is high
amongst the new arrivals, and the resignation is even greater in the ranks
|  __ of those who have played at Dal under the conditions of past years. _ This

} vg year will be no different. Hustling back and forth, cramped in the back
a of a truck to get to the ice and from it, weird hours for practise, lack of
ae ‘support from the student body, all of these things are part of the hockey
picture. In a past column this corner commented that despite the foregoing
__ ¢ireumstances Dal will have as scrappy a team as ever this season. Where
__ the spirit comes from that gives rise to a team under extreme conditions
__we’ll never know, but we’d like to have more of it. Our student body must
__be very hard and calloused if the efforts of the team of last year in fighting
hard despite far superior competition haven’t shamed up just’a bit.

a * + *

From the boxing quarter comes word that arrangements are being
_' made to have the well known Percy Paris employed as boxing coach for this
% year’s team. We know the “Percy” who is anything but what the associ- ations of his name imply. The little New Glasgow lightweight is the leading challenger for the Canadian title, and we can’t think of a man who can

work with, what with rugged lads like Andy Berna, Jim Cruikshank, and
_ Dave Rammasar turning out. Rammasar, they tell us, was a contestant in
the recent Olympic trials, and of course “Big Jim” will be gunning for his
third straight Intercollegiate heavyweight title. We venture to add, at the
| risk of receiving challenges from “Lucky” Abraham and “Sailor” Hum_ phreys, that there isn’t a heavyweight in the Maritimes, amateur or pro_ fessional, who could beat Cruikshank over the three round route.

cd * * a *

While in ring circles, if you can possibly find a copy of the New York
Times, magazine section, for the Sunday edition, November 20th, make it
a point to read an article therein on the wrestling game. It is the best story
of the antics and angles of the mat game that this writer has come across

in year. Here is one of the psychological gems. “Dracula” was a

his trunks, take a hanky from his back pocket, soak it in the “chloroform”
and drug his victim into unconsciousness, thereby winning the fall.
xe xe Ms

The athletes here at Dalhousie are waiting with interest the results
of the Acadia final exams. We were having a chat with Gabe Vitalone in
the office the other day and he is not in favour of the system of having
only one set of exams. It is his opinion that this puts the athletes under too
must pressure at the end of the year. Certainly it is hard enough for athletes indulging in the fall sports to get down to work for the Christmas
exams without letting the work pilt up till the finals. It is the opinion of
the coach that somewhere along the line a check must be installed to keep
the athletes up in studies, and in his opinion the elimination of exams in
the middle of the year will jeopardize the scholastic future of the letter
man,

Ke I

| GirlH oopsters .
To Meet YWCA

The girl’s “A” team will play
their first league game of the season tomorrow evening at 7.00 p.m.
against the “Y” in their gym. It
will be the second game for “Y”.
They suffered their first defeat at
the hands of Q.E.H.S., in a rather
one-sided game.

‘The “A” squad are looking for
, £, their second win after triumphing
ever the Grads, ;

 

Oslo University -
(Continued from page one)

cultural interest. Oslo and its
vicinity afford excellent opportunities for all types of recreational
sports.

Maximum expenses in Oslo will
be $860. The round trip fare is
also $360,

Further information may be oh,
tained from The Oslo Summer
School Admissions Office, St. Olaf
College, Northfield, Minnesota,

—

ats
F
‘x

+a
oy pera be ba a
3 = tA
= il i eee eg Ft ds a a eS
Aten " me sets
i % i Saal } + A. ‘ » ed eI eet
= ee fi Seg iy pee fae = 2 ft ca E =< | ee 7 ai = Wa
ee ae ha — iF an _ : - A sac port
# “a as a oe, x i { q 5 . my : ;
: & | & ‘<< fr ‘i , . Ff t at —_— ;
| ri ams. ; ; y ia | im’ bs! rN Aye ; 3
= a : ca t I 7 a wf i r ' \ c 4
etext ee | oo =

set a better example to our boys. Percy will have a wealth of material to'|

west coast wrestler who dressed his part, hideous makeup on the face ete. |
The culmination of his “act” was to pull a bottle labelléd “chloroform” from |

ae Le

es.

The’ first varsity Hockey

practice will be at the Shirley
St. Arena, Thursday, from 1-3

p.m. Equipment may be obtained from O’Brien in the Gym.
Let’s have a good turnout.

 

 

Swishes wishes fulfilled!

yep A eis, ‘Tt.
a | oP bea oy
~ e ~ A
* 2 ht hy Wes r
+

a i eal cate 0

 

* *

TROUNCE KINGSMEN

" i [4

T his Le ieee a
uf ry eee a ee ee ee eae
eee, apes ‘11 a 4 i a
D { Tf G :
ee = = ts: imate Les i = ~ mei

 

& *

Shaw and Clancy Lead in
Win Over Campus Rivals

The smiling faces (well most of them any
oe caeeds pate : : I icted ¢ ¢ f the triumphant “Swish”, who came out on
z with more team play the calibre of Saturday | @Y) depicted above, are o ;
A: me boys come up wi . = : top in the Intermural league battle.

Back row, left to right:—Kay

Murray, Joanne Everett, Ann Tompkins, Betty Cousins. Front row,

 

left to right:—Caroline Weld, Marilyn MacIntyre (capt.), Rona Yess.

Swishes Take Intermural Crown

With Six Straight

Wins, No Losses

The undefeated “Swishes”, have ended up in the top position of the

D.G.A.C. Intermural +asketball le
games to gather in 12 points for

ague.
themselves. This was the only team

They played a total of six

in the league that did not have at least one defeat on their record.
After the first few games it was apparent that the Swish would

be the team that was
league.

j

going to steam-roller its way to the top of the
They were able to chalk up a total of 171 points. This was

rather overwhelming, considering that they had only 70 scored against

them.

 

:

Meet the
Hoop Squad

 

 

 

Meet Andy MacKay, twenty year
old six-foot first string guard; on
this year’s Varsity basketball team.

Andy hails from Ottawa, and is
in his third year at Dalhousie. Before coming to Dal he played junior high basketball for Glebe Collegiate Institute in Ottawa. Coming to Dalhousie he played both
Junior and Varsity basketball in
his first two years at the University. This year Andrew is playing
for the Intermediate and Varsity
teams.

Andy does not confine his athkletics to basketball alone. He starred on the Canadian football team, |
being co-capt in 1948, and captain |
this year. Last year Andy was
voted “Athlete of the Year”, and
was awarded the Climo Trophy. |

This energetic hoop-artist is recognized as one of the best defen
|sive guards in Nova Scotia. On  freshments will be served,

> Betty Cousins and team-captain

|Marilyn MacIntyre were the back|bone of the Swish, but the rest of
'the team really deserves a lot of
| credit.

Skunk Hollow came out in sec|ond place, having won 4 games for
|8 points. The pts. were awarded 2
|for each win and 0 for a loss. The
Hollowites scored 75 points and
had 51 scored against them. Cap'tain Barb Quigley and Joan Bax'ter were the star forwards for the
| Hollow, with Lucy Calp turning in
| good games on both guard and for\ward lines. Atomettes and

Schmoos each had one win for 2

 
  

pts. apiece. Captain Gerry Grant
of the Atomettes, with teammates
Jean MacLeod and “Foo” Grant

\the League, “Foo” tossed in most
of the Atomette points,

Fran Doane, Betty Petrie and
Barb Lohnes, all well known for
their hoop ability were the stalwarts of the schmoo team.

This Intermural League, as most
of you know replaced the old Interfac League. Certainly this
proved to be a wise move. EnthuSiasm, interest, and good spirit,
three essential factors to make any
sporting contest a success were obvious from the opehing whistle.
The League was to be primarily a
“friendly” league, and although
there were a few complaints. here
and there, it most assuredly fulfilled its original purpose.

;

 

Snes

top of all his other athletic activities he finds time to participate in
staudent affairs and is Sec.-Treas.
of the D.A.A.C, Here’s hoping that
Andy will add more laurels to his
already outstanding career.

teleport pene aiaie ale a e aehs

CERCLE FRANCAIS
The Cercle: Francais will present
French movies in the Engineering
Building on Tuesday evening at 8
pm. A _ full entertainment is
planned in addition to this, and re
AF

| played strong games all through

 

 

ans

 

A completely rejuvenated~ Dalhousie Junior team decisively defeated King’s Junior 67-37, in an
exhibition basketball game at Dal
Gym, Sat. night, Nov. 26. Shaw
opened the scoring for the Bengals
soon after the opening whistle and
Clancy followed up with another
basket to put Dal ahead 4-0 after
one minute of play. The Kingsmen couldn’t overtake this lead for
the rest of the game. Ross, for
King’s, scored several nice baskets
during the first half as did Clancy
for the Tigers. The score at the
end of half time was 28-15, in

favor of The Bengals.
Grantmeyer played well for
King’s during the second half,

teaming up with Ross and Hoyt to
score 22 points. The boys were

-|no match, however, for the smooth
working Tiger’s who scored 39
points in this half. Claney ran
wild during the last 15 minutes of
the game, playing standout ball

Claney was high man ‘and indi- ~

vidual star of the game, scoring 22
points and playing sound defensive ball. Ross was high man for
King’s with 14 points followed by
Grantmeyer and Hoyt with 13 and
10.

Due to the absence of Coach
Vitalone, who was attending a convention in Amherst, it was necessary for Bazook Palmeter to supervise the boys and, I might add, he
did a good job. Arp Robertson and
Red iFnlay acted as referees.

Dal Junions—McCurdy 3, Cluney

5, Lane, Brown 8, Semple 4, Smith .

3, Shaw 14, R. Medjuck 5, Ells 2,
D. Clancey 22, Garson 4, Kinley 2,
Murphy.

King Juniors—Hoyt 10, Ross 14,

Sitland, Korey, Grantmeyer 13,
Cluett, Smith, Tupper, MacLean,
MacDonald.

 

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price
for Young Men
4 | \s

   

 

 

ay

\
A \\\ \ \\ ty

we
a, lees eg PE =

wr ”
i ee ae
a a

fo

 

fF |

i

 
