     
      

¢
5

re:

%

_——

 

3 .
| a
: q
|
,
e
’
)
4

 

    
    
  
   

q

| CLUB BALL

TONIGHT

Vol. LXXXII

Mal: 3

. Tt = pa 2 See ey? Giiamta canal wiA. ‘ mF fe ea ae j Ta ha ran)
; ae oe a - . io ree " . ya i r 0 ‘ aaa ree
; oy ee Od tt ; ’ ' : j a,
F A) i te a ae F \
* os “a at i oy u oes ; .
eee es eee :
s = - . ed — , i . Ml] ; ;
, h 4 a 1 v u >
-NT 7

 

a ae ee
a ae ea
Beata! Ct
:

—=

 

 

America’s Oldest College Paper
HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, PEBRUARY 10, 1950

7.75 wy
gr

FOR TORONTO
ALHOUSIE GAZETTE

MILLIONAIRES BALL

IN GYM
TONIGHT

 

 

No. 28

 

TIGERS EDGE X-MEN IN SEASON’S

MOST SENSATIONAL TOURNAMENT

—_—- >

 

Gordy MacCoy, who gave the Tigers a victory over St. F. X. as he
sank the winning basket with only one second left to play in the game,
is shown above, just after the final whistle, surrounded by the cheering

fans.

The crowd poured on to the floor as the game ended and hoisted

the players and the coach, Mr. Vitalone, to their shoulders for a victroy

march around the Gymnasium. This

was the first time that the Tigers

have beaten the X-Men in three years.

 

Inter-University Drama Festival to
Be Held in First Week of March

An Inter-University Drama Festival is to be held on
March 3rd, 4th and 6th at Acadia, Dalhousie and Mount Alli
son Universities respectively.

On these nights each partic
ipant will enact a play for the benefit of the students of these

Universities and with the idea
tween these parties in the field

In the latter part of 1949 an attempt to form a Nova Scotian
Drama League began under the
guiding hand of Donald Wetmore,
Director of Adult Education. Representatives from all parts of the
province were present at a meeting held to discuss this idea. Outstanding at this meeting were the
seeds of close relationship among
the Univer sity representatives.

After the recent performance of
Othello here at Dal a meeting was
held among the three universities
above mentioned. Mount Allison
had six representatives at this production; Acadia had three. Far
into Sunday morning they discussed the idea of holding this Drama
Festival, and they agree upon the
above dates for it.

of creating a closer union beof Dramatics.

Featured at this festival will be
excerpts from Othello, by William
Shakespeare, as put on by DalhouSwan’s Song, by Anton Chekhoy, as produced by Acadia; and |
Dark Lady of the Sonnets, by G.
Shaw, which wil be enacted by
Mount Allison. Each play will be
done at the three universities on
the three nights mentioned above.

The plan was created with no
idea of competition but rather with
a spirit of cooperation in bringing
the Universities together in Dramatics. The seeds were nurtured in
an atmosphere of ‘let’s get together and put on plays, let’s exchange plays and players, but,
above all, let’s do something TOGETHER”,

sie;

 

Macintyre and MacDonald are Chosen

To Debate at Osgoode Hall Feb. 16th

The annual debate between the
Dal Law School and the Osgoode
School will be in Toronto this year
on Feb. 16. Leo MacIntyre and
Ron Macdonald were chosen last
week to represent Dal and they
will leave next Tuesday by train.

The subject for the debate is:
Resolved that the Supreme Court

of Canada should apply the decis
ions of the Judicial Committee in

the same manner as the Committee

has hitherto applied its own previous decisions. The affirmative will

i ree suported by Dal.

Bot fi and Ron have had

peatinaiate, ‘debating

a Tat eS my i

   

ty oy pei

os _
ae Ey

i ra

i

wee NY eee
i Ni aia
ae

Fas)

experience at St. F.X. although
this is the first occasion on which
either has represented the Law
School in the important Osgoode
debate.

 

NOTICE
There will be a meeting of all
those interested in gliding at 7:30
p.m. Monday evening in Room 20
of the Engineering Building.

 

CO-VETTES
Dalhousie Co-Vettes will hold a
Valentine Party in the Engineers’

Common Room, Tuesday evening,

February 14, at 8:15.

 
      

    

 

 

|

 

 

 

 

McCoy Sinks Basket in Dying Moments of

Overtime Period to Overcome 31-30 Lead
As Maritimes Most Powerful Teams Clash

Last Tuesday evening an under-rated Dal team took the floor against the Dominion Champion St.

F.X. squad, The Tigers, two to one under-dogs in the betting,
an overtime period to edge the powerful Xavarians by a

ling cage game ever seen in this city.

came from behind in the final second of
32-31 score in what was probably the most thril
It was a coach’s battle all the way, with both teams playing cagey ball, and making every point count.
When the game was only 15 seconds old, Scott Henderson threw a long set shot to put the Tigers in the

lead 2-0. Slick Hank Propper,

high scorer for the X-Men,

tied it up a minute later

with a nice one
hander. The count stayed at 2-2 until the ten minute mark as both teams jockeyed for the openings, unwilling to waste a shot until it was a sure thing.

 

This notice appeared at the Law
School with regard to the Mock
Parliament, February 13.

 

MARITIMERS AWAKE!

Remove your shackles and
your blindfolds. Why be pawns
and use your votes to pass legislation to aid those parties who
are centralizing the country and
giving it into the hands of political dictators and the industrial princes of privilege?

They are destroying our provinces, removing our industries
and relegating the majority of
our populace to the rank of
paid civil servants. They are destroying our initiative by offering security in the form of
political patronage.

THE MARITIMES

belonioned by the
Maritime Rights Party

Pres., J. Fitzpatrick

Sec..,

lan Robertson

 

FLASH!

Pa
| xo

V. C. MacDonald, Dean of the
Law School, yesterday was appointed a judge of the Supreme
Court of Nova Scotia. Mr. Justice
MacDonald fills the vacancy
created by the elevation of Mr.
Justice Illsley to the post of Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court.

 

NOTICE

All members of the Chorus and
Orchestra must turn out on Sunday, at 2 p.m,

 

 

 

 

° Charlie Connely sank a foul shot ©

to make it 3-2, but then the Xavarians went on a rampage, running
the score to 10-3. Baskets by
Findlay and MacDonald closed the
gap momentarily, but, with one
minute to go in the half, the Bengals were trailing by a 17-9 count.
MacCoy, Henderson and Findlay
tallied for the Black and Gold, and
the half ended 17-15.

As the second half opened, the
Tigers took the lead as Henderson
sank a foul and a set shot. For a
short time the Bengals were on top
of a 26-20 score. The Xavarians
hacked away at this lead until, with
ten seconds left in the game, the
Bengals led, 30-29. Big Rudy
Pace, who played a terific game on
the X guard line, received a pass
right under the Dal basket. In
blocking the shot that would have
meant a victory for the X-Men,
Chuch Connely fouled Pace, and
big boy got set to take two free
throws. Pandamonium reigned
as the first shot tied up the game,
but the second missed, and an overtime period was needed to settle
the isue.

At the 1.30 mark of the five minute over-time, Pack again sank a
foul shot to give the X-Men a 31-30
lead. Time and again the Tigers
roared in on the Xavarian basket,
only to be stopped by the defensive
work of Pace and Flaherty. Finally, with less than ten seconds to
play, all X had to do was freeze
the ball and the game would be
won. However, Propper elected to
shoot, and Pace and Connely grappled for the rebound. Referees
Snowdon and Alf Jornson called
a jump ball and the Tigers took
time out with only five seconds to
play in the game. The rest is now
history. Gordy MacCoy picked a
pass out of the air, whirled, and
shot a basket in the final second to
give the Bengals the game, 32-31.

 

University Rescinds

Ban Against ‘Gateway’

EDMONTON, Feb. 6—(CUP)—
Dr. Robert Newton, president of
the University of Alberta announced here today that last week’s banning of the Gateway, student newspaper, will be rescinded pending a
review of the paper’s policies by
university officials on Feb. 21.

Dr. Newton said his action in
suspending the paper followed a
special engineer’s edition which
contained “objectionable material”.

{

qt Ps {i eS == sl E ‘ ral

 

aceite Shield
Contests to be
In Early March

On Thursday and Friday, March
2nd and 8rd the Connolly Shield
Competition wil be held. On these
dates the competitive dramatic endeavors of all interested groups
and societies on the campus will be
displayed before the students and
general public. Instituted by Captain Joseph Connolly, of “Navy
Show” fame, the competition was
established to further and develop
the dramatic talents of Dalhousie
students. In this respect the Competition might well act as a dramatic workshop, and as such provide the Glee and Dramatie Society with a reserve of talent for
the years immediately following
competitions. All groups on the
campus are eligible to enter and
those desirous of doing so must
send the folowing information to:
The Secretary, The Dalhousie
Glee and Dramatie Society, Dalhousie Gymnasium
February 22nd:

Name of play (Must be one-act)

Names of cast and characters.

Name of Director.

Running time of play (in

minutes ).

It is esential to remember that
the sets must be kept at the minimum and that each group will be
responsible for its own set proper
ties. Remember the dates—March
2nd and 3rd.

on

or before

 

Student Groups to
Write the Gazette

LONDON, Ont. — (CUP)— Five
Student group have offered to
“write” the Gazette in res ‘ponse to
an offer made before Christmas,
Editor and Publisher Ian MeIntosh
said today, in acceptance,

First of these special issues, featuring various sections of university life, was published February
3. Honorary History, English and
Philosophy students were in charge.

Second issue in this series is set
for February 14, when Arts’
Co-Eds will produce the paper.

Meds and nurses will have their
annual issue on February 24 with
Science students expected to follow with an issue on February 28,

Business students plan to “write”
their students newspaper on March
17,

—— a et =

 

 
  
  
   
    
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

ES ee =
by a
oo, A
fr ’ m
’ "

es TERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
cre +i, f  * . ; ; . *

Member Canadian University Press

ablished twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
ersity. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
students’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
; Yalho ausie Gazette, Halifax, N. S: ”

Qe ry, @.
i yt
= AMER

RES FAG ears Oey MLE LTT eigen hs os .. 8-7098
BRCM WOOR Shick vs eee ole nd ns Reha ks Editor-in-Chief
DERMEM eee EEE aa Nese no's 88 Pee Managing Editor
PURARVIO. nese a ys oe 58 2h ee Sa Advertising Manager
RO RMIG SN oo counts ates oc teense Seg ebecesene Office Manager

MacD Pe eewshwe en yidagass s Sahil salma ckiy 6 C.U.P. Editor
. |

EDITORIAL STAFF

lerie Cato Pe eee aah
tj. Goldburgh ©] cv. 6. sas deedae sce teeesdeeees 17 eature Editor
Biss icin . }

Bey alse dem eu s wre Sports Editors

Reporters. .... ....Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
ture Writers......Judy McKeen, Barbara McGeoch, Eliphal Nichols
orters—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
ie, Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,

: _ a

Ras ey Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.
ROLORPAPNET 22.0 b ieee eee eee reer tence te eceegeres Dan Soberman
irtoonist. ......... Dave Nicholson, Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
RENO ocd Mee ele dices ee, PS Se Dea teres weer Lucy Calp
Proof Readers ........ Bie yey a iicnatea' boss ae at ‘Gloria Horne, Rona Yess
| FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1950 No .28

vale 15 College newspapers throughout the country seem to
be having a difficult time. .From the University of Al— berta comes news that the facilities of the university
: Ae print shop will not be available to the Gateway until
_ further notice. That was the result of a special En___ gineers’ issue, containing a complete page of indiscreet
a roves SOROS. |.) |
+ A recent issue of La Rotunde, the weekly newspaper
of the University of Ottawa, was suspended and burned
because it contained a notice of an invitation to Gerard
- Filion to address the students. Filion, the Editor of Le
Devoir, had dared to criticize the university for establishing courses which were to be given in English only.
The criticism may have been unjust . . . the burning of
an entire issue because of the announcemnet was simply
ridiculous.
. And then the author of a column in the Toronto
' Varsity has had his column discontinued because he
questioned the ancestry of the Varsity’s Editor. The
Board of Governors is now investigating the author.

There we have samples of the two extremes in university journalism. In one case, the Editors or authors
~- eoneerned seem not to realize the responsibilities of their
position . . . in the other, the university refuses to permit the publication of so much as a notice concerning a
man with whom it disagrees.

‘Many Dalhousians accuse the Gazette and the University of similar attitudes. In no case this year has
either institution so much as approached them. The
University has not dictated to the Gazette; the Gazette
has taken its responsibilities to the students seriously.

Some there are, our Students’ Council among them,
who do not realize that all things cannot be just the way
they wish ... they want a University with unbounded
benificence but no restrictions, a Gazette with colour but
no bias, and an existence with errors but no criticism.

It Hasn’t Happened Here...

Paper Gagged
By Officials
As Offensive

OTTAWA—Feb. 2 — (CUP) —
The last isue of La Rotonde, weekly student newspaper of Ottawa,
was seized and burned soon after
it appeared last week.
The decision to destroy the paper
was made by Rector J. C. Laframboise of the University, according
to a student official. University officials objected to the announcement in the paper of an invitation
extended to Gerard Filion, editor
of Le Devoir, Montreal ,to address
Ottawa students. This invitation
was made by the local committee of
University Students. La Rotonde
had no part in the invitation, except to announce the news of the
invitation in the paper. The article
which announeed the news of the
_ invitation was a routine announce
ment. 3
_ This announcement, a spokesman
BS for the Ottawa students declared,
___was considered by the university to

be “offensive”, since Filion had
eized the University of Ottawa} =
rially for establishing courses | — xy

| Looking Backwards


this newspaper,

HE

c ab eee
is nity ame ¢ .

 

- . fa id
4], Ried — ‘ et Ae ue ee
; oy LC BAN an i iy ee
> Eade Pee ee ms
a, pal “a oT a Choe et Tae at
eee Ii eo fe: be uh > Z
ua oe ie “5. 2 cal as ‘
Pe Nee eo eee eat MC 3:
hai i g as i ee wos pena

mi hir0~. AD

Tuesday, Feb. 8, 1950.—Up and
all the morning at the office. My
wretched wife did interrupt my
buziness and come rushing into my
private chambers, brushing aside
my clerk, and did stand there for
over an hour wailing that I did
not love her and would not give
her monies for her to buy suitable
clothing. I told her to go out and
work for a change, and see how
difficult it was to obtain monie.
She did then reply that she would
and that she was going to consult
the Editor of the Spectator and try
to obtain work there, for, she said,
she could write better than I. Annoyed at this I did shove her towards the door and bid her begone.

Did hear that Allfired Hairless
had another irresponsible escapade
the other night. Walking along
the street by his former lodgings
he did see a light in the window of
a friend who still lived there. . Unwilling to awaken the whole
house, especially as the rules of the
place forbid calls after midnight,
he did decide to ascend the fireescape and enter by the window.
In the process of this he did dislodge a large timber making a
huge crashing sound. At this the
house did awake and lights were
struck all over. It being too late
to withdraw, Hairless did continue
up the steps, but suddenly he was
illuminated by many lights as his
ex-landlady did cry out to him and
eall him a culprit and a burgular.
After a stormy debate Hairless
was obliged to leave, but it is
rumored that the next day those
who were falsely suspected of inviting him into the house were
foreed to seek other lodgings.
Hairless is unrepentant.

Wednesday, Feb. 9, 1950. — Did

hear that Lord Giggle has fallen
upon hard times. He did try to
organize a demonstration of all the
scholars and get them to picket
the Parliament and air their grievances that they were taxed at the
first of the year and have as yet
obtained no material advantages
and in addition are taxed again at
each event they wish to attend. His
demonstration did not come off,
but indeed, the scholars did not
have to pay at the last event. This
last event was a contest with the
athletes of another college and
Giggle did place wagers» on the
other college. It did seem that the
other group did not win and he is
consequently in dire straits

 

 

Mid-Century Highlights

 

NOTICE: This column will be
discontinued pending investigation
by The Board of Governors of its
author, who was alleged to have
made disparaging remarks regarding the ancestry of the Editor of

Editor-in-Chief

> te Gaby ‘TORONTO VARSITY—(CUP)
a ie 1 j . ie *\..~ ¥ om, ‘ ‘
ot fe ‘ ‘, a tl 4 ioe rae eM oa Pa’ Ms id Lie j Co af pa tl
4 Bt Ai ee } 5 a a \y try af uf A ae Ty e Hs 3 ; aj Je 4

    
   
       
     
     

 

| Quinpool Road and Kline

: 7 a 5 ous ate St, A ae cs ¥
TNS ? he a eX en ae: i iy ua s ) i Date hae as, fig 7; Ws ps
aA at 5 rs ws aii Rates / See - _
v Men eee eae hi
sayy + oi 8 “
! wi

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
     

 

   

| Aas on Students
Ride In The Best

3-§ TAXI SERVICE

Phone & Phone
3-7188 3-7188

LARGEST “FLEET IN TOWN

Popular

Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Be sure the famous Birks
Blue Box your
choice.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

encloses

 

Compliments of

JOE and TOM
Diana Sweets
|
|

Tea Room

The students recreation centre

 

 

 

 
  

EUROPEAN

STUDENT TOUR

Sail May 27th on One Class ship in Canadian Service with
run of the ship privileges. London, Trossachs, Edinburgh;
motor tour of Scott Country, English Lakes, Shakespeare
Country, Oxford. Holland, Belgium, Lucerne, Interlaken,
Montreux, Geneva, Italian Lakes, Venice, Rome, Hill Towns,
Florence, French and Italian Rivieras, Paris. 67 days $1098
for complete tour or $878 without Italy.

phone, call or write

UNIVERSITY TRAVEL CLUB

57 Bloor St. West, Toronto, Kingsdale 6984
Management: J. F. and G. H. Lucas

 

 

a9 <

Eg yay ‘Neither a borrower
nor a lender be”

That’s good advice Egbert—most times.

But Egbert knows, too, that there are

times when borrowing — and lending
— can be good business.

By operating his own savings account
at the B of M during the past four years,
Egbert has found out plenty about financial matters. He’s got to know his B of M
manager pretty well, too. He’s talked
over his future plans with him many >
times and knows that his B of M
manager is a good friend — a wise
financial counsellor.

That’s why Egbert says, “A good bank
ing connection is a ‘must’ for success.”
U4-5

 

 
 
 
   
   
       
       
      
      

_——

Cy. W bey UC Cee OE
Cauada's First Sank

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

'
.

Halifax Branch: JOHN A, HOBSON, Mer.
JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mgr.

CHARLES SMITH, Mer. _

  

North End Branch:

f y

_ JAMES L, MeGERRIG

     

 
 

 

\- ad sate
ine

 
  

i or pak: mtn

  
 

Yew 45 re

a

wy

fh iti ea: Bula AP

 

z - Othello.
Ry. ; ee we can also pay tribute to Mr.
. a igot and those who participated
AE ay in the play, But as an editorial in
7 ie last Tuesday’s Gazette said in so
' many words, we can not pay tribute to the Thursday night’s audi
vi $ reais from the success of
And from the same suc
 

Special Co-Ed
Issue Tuesday

The Gazette office takes on the

=: “New Look” during the next few

days as the members of the fairer

| x sex invade its dingy confines in
preparation for the annual publica
tion of the Special Co-Ed Issue of

The Gazette, which will make its

illustrious appearance on the eam
pus Tuesday.
This year’s edition once again

fi finds Marj (Features) Goldberg

occupying the Editor’s chair. She

_- will be assisted by feminine mem
the forthcoming days
; Yule, which we understand has the

owt

b
eee

\

v1 i

a...
Se
<

—
——

Ae,

i wr MO gs

~~. _
oo »
é

4.

Pe ne

ies

)

9

  
 
 
 
 
 
   

a
- |
_ ~

bers of the regular staff and also
many others with hidden literary
talents,

The masculine members of the

staff, meanwhile, are planning to

give the office a wide berth during
of female

hearty approval of the girls.
Information as to the contents of

this special issue are being kept a
deep dark secret, but it is promised

that this shalt be the best yet. The

grapevine has devulged, however,

that one of the “specials” will be a
feminine “Sam Peeps’.

 

Notice

_ Student literary material is urgently needed by
the Features Page, especeae original short stories
_ written by students in any
faculty.

3 abe eer 7 = . = = ' ee 7

ee mater s te 5 oy :
i a te . * .
eae ; ‘SS res a ee A ey oe oe A) :
r*y So ie q ;

by Noel Goodridge

bar st inp m

4t ~*~ oO 7 Tae. tio f i e

T-Square

ence, or, at least ,those in the audience who found the humour of
Shakespeare’s ambiguity so irresistible that they destroyed the
value of the finer points in the
drama for the more appreciative
part of the audience. It appears
that in the first scene of the first
act O'thello himself had to stop in
the middle of a passage, go to the
front of the stage and tell the boys
in the front row to shut-up. Their
ignorance is further pointed out by
the fact that few of the offenders
realized that he was ad libbing.

Besides being the best production the Glee Club have put out,
this play also marked the first
ocasion for some time that there
has been an opportunity: for the
firemen to prove their worth. Apparently one of the footlights was
too close to the curtain which
started to smoulder during Friday
night’s show.

The efficiency of the Public Re
lations’ Board payed off well for

this play. Eighty posters, well
painted and eye-catching, were distributed around the City of Halifax. Post cards were sent to all
Community Concert Ticket Holders
who, as it turned out, formed a
large part of the audience. In addition to this, notices were sent by
mail along two of the residential
routes. Publicity has picked up a
greal deal since the first of the
year. The large number of signs
to be seen around the campus are
proof of this. Approximately one
hundred dollars were cleared from
the gate receipts of Othello.

The sports page has been so full
of basketball news lately that the
hockey team’s trip to Newfoundland seems to have faded into the
background without very much being said about it. In addition to
Dal, Grand Falls have also played
hosts to a team from Glace Bay
and the Armed Forces team from
here in Halifax. They intend to

bring in a team from the Annapo- |
At| by the weleome they received. Most

lis Valley in the near future.
their own expense Grand Falls
have been entertaining Nova Sco- |

All students havin g | tian teams since they got their new
talents i in this field are.re- | "* @ few years ago.

quested to turn their

stories in to the Gazette

Office at an early date.

Just hand him an Arrow Valentie

and pucker up. If he’s

busy admiring it, he’ll likely do

the right thing.

Arrow Valenties are sure-fire

* beau-pleasers. Men are really sent
by those handsome Arrow colors.
And as for neat-knotting ... they

slip around his neck as
your arms.

Well don’t just sit there day“a _ dreaming! Hop along to the near
est Arrow dealer. He’ll be glad to
help you select a tie or two to
Oa pe: that guy!

Probably the youngest player eel not to be outdone in hospitality,
the ice for Grand Falls was a
seventeen year old player named |
| Bamnatony:

 

not too

neat as

 

 

reabo

 

  

 

With the Bla over for another
year, city cops ean now breathe
easier, and life, more or less, returns to its normal course. Over
500 couples attended, and the wkle
affair was a success from every
angle. This was, of course, largely
due to the efforts of the organizing
committee, and Messrs. Haley,
Ring, Porter, Shields, and Hemming certainly merited the vote of
thanks put forth by the Society.

Turning to sport, both the hockey and basketbal teams are out
for wins to offset recent losses,
and to improve their present third
place in the league. The pucksters
are due to meet the meds on the
21st, while the hoopsters will have
already tangled with the boys from
Dent School by the time this goes
to press.

Incidentally, some comments

 
    
     
  
   
   
  
   

Pag re 5 -raree

 

  
  

    

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

  
  
 
   

Beggorah ye spalpeens! Ye sheulda seen it! And at Dalhousie,
too! A genooine Irish play—direct from the Auld Sod. ALL about
O’Thello, an Irish lad from the Narth—the stonehearted galoot,
God rest his soul.

George O’Tracy was terrific, as everyone expected; Holly O’Fleming was in the same category and Art Hartling (who wrote the play)
was his usual competent self. As happens every year, a newcomer, in
the person of Willa Seeley stood out. She will draw raves from the
drama lovers before her Dal Daze is over.

It was also a great night for the morons—who attended in a
body.. Othello is full of juicy little tid-bits which an evid mind can
twist and turn and the many loud, hound-like bays that continually
rent the night air indicated the success of a subeyeceucon mind in
its search of the pensée gaie.

_ Our information has it that the director, Mr. Pigot, was seriously
considering ringing down the curtain during the second act. We suggest that all those attending future DGAC productions be required to
top fifty in an IQ test—then the plays can be held in Room Three of
the Arts Building.

 

 

In the two games he | final game.

LAW NOTES
|

from this-corner re the refereeing
in a recent inter-fac hoop game
seem to have penetrated the hide
éf none other than Yonkers’ gift to
Dalhousie, Gabriel ‘the Vitamin”
Vitalone. Re-reading the offending
(?) portion would clear things up,
but meantime coach, go easy on the
intimidation of certain (?) players.
Or could it be “(our spies report)

John Roberts deserves a Gold D for courage and effort. When
no one was found to take the part of Rodrigo, he volunteered on
only two weeks notice, but nevertheless received no sympathy from
the Howling Idiot Society. However, his portrayal of the part
acted as ‘a perfect foil for the strong Rodrigo and contributed
greatly to the success of the play. We still think Bacon and possibly Hartling wrote the play.

[I TOLD YOU SO DEPARTMENT: Talking about intestinal fortitude, you should have a gander at this year’s hockey Tigers. Although
out-conditioned, out-matched, out-equipped, out-on-their-feet they never

the effects of that bus trip back give up. Even though the score-indicator-button is giving the timefrom the land of the apple-knock- keepers callouses, the opponents have had real seares in the first

ers! (Never mind, Gabe. After
last Tuesday everybody loves you).

This year’s banquet has been
fixed for Friday, February 24th, at
the Lord Nelson, and tickets at
half a dollar apiece will go on sale
at the end of next week. All
freshmen are especially urged to
attend.

ee

periods of the college contests so far.
intent to maim.

Like bears coming out of hibernation, or swallows returning to
Capistrano, it is a yearly rite for this commer to plead with the
DAAC to withdraw from Intercollegiate hockey, until we have the
facilities to enable us to compete. To say “Anyway we played” is
all right, until the contests become burlesques. Sally Rand would
be proud of us.

The Tigers have a determined

In no way do we wish to criticize the Hockey Team.
big fellows). They are doing their best and can be well proud of their
efforts. Goalkeeper Bill Janes is a real discovery—a natural if we
ever saw one. Before the season is over he will receive the V.C. for
courag under fire. He stands in front of the twine—without benefit of
blindfold—his face contorted in a cruel sneer and lets thirteen angry,
goal-hungry hockey players fire rubber bullets at him.

(As they are
got one goal and four assists. What
adds much interest to this personality is that his father was playing
a good game as referee (no malice
inferred).

And on top of that his sister was
counting the shots on goal (w hich
turned out to be a full time job).

The team were very impressed

So, as this is our graduating year, we hereby bequeath this
solemn rite to our successor. Please D.A.A.C., can’t you see, what
fools are we, let’s not give wins for free.

DEFENCE OF OUR SULLIED NAME DEPARTMENT: In this
issue will probably appear the second installment of the soap opera
about the Year-late Book, written by its editor. We wish to dispel any
fog possibly created by stating that we have the statement of a Dalstudent who was in the same room at Ingonish when the said editor
refused to take phone calls from the President of Students’ Council.
We also repeat that the Student Council has made a bolix of the Yearlate Book mainly in that they have allowed the said publication to remain too long in the hands of an indolent, irresponsible editor.

of the players were billeted in
private homes where tehy were
treated royally. Mr. and Mrs.
| Baird, proprietors of a hotel there,

exposed the restaurant of their
hotel to a quiet party after the
And their son, Speed,
went one better by telling a few
jokes.

eee ee ee

 

i

 

When a Fellow
Welcomes Hospitality

The Law Society meeting held
on Feb. 6 was very short. The only
question of importance was that of
voting upon funds for the DalOsgood Hall debate.

The first moot court for the week
was held Tuesday. The case was
that of Rex V. Hastings under
Lordships Urqhart, Williams and
Hilman. The decision was awarded
to the respondent J. Scott. The
appellant was B. Campbell. The
highlight of the case occurred when
a Maritime Rights notice appeared
at the court and was read. J. E.
Feener then brought in a writ to
have the notice removed. Faling in
this he then brought in a new writ
signed by George VI the same effect. This also failed. Later a man
resembling Feener very closely
and dressed as a janitor came in
and swept off the top of the bench,
where the notice lay, into a waste
basket and ran out the door. Later,
aprehended, Feener claimed that
the janitor was his twin brother
and thus escaped punishment.

A. A. Bishop. and D. A. Snow as
appellants won a decision in the
case of O’Connell v. Town of Chatham. The respondents were J. A.
Commerford, D, A. Soberman, and
W. A. Tomlin. The case was held
before their Lordships Lowe, Wallace and Neilson,

The final case of the week the

 

 

“San Onefre”’ case was _ tried =

Thursday afternoon before a panel an

which included such eminent men ARIE I CHAT RG?» »» both a

as Laughton L.CJ., DeLong LJ. trade-marks mean the same thing, | eR
and Harding L.J. J. A. MacDonald v

and R. C. Webster, as the appellants, won. The respondents were

R. M. Armstrong, R. B. Woolaver
| and G. H, Theriault,

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

 

 

‘ es a oF: my i
bt het car Lee

Py

J

 

 

 

Lge

et
Pani

why ‘ee RS

‘femme
  
 

 

 

Tiger, tiger, burning bright,
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Could frame thy fearful symmetry.

—wW. Blake

Well, Mr. Blake, I doubt very much if Mr. Gabe Vitalone is immortal but I would say that he answers your searching question. He took
a sure underdog into the gymnasium last Tuesday nite and with his
keen eye, assuring hand and sharp brain, he gave Dal fans one of the
greatest pictures that they had ever seen. With a Dal time-out and a
few seconds left to play, everyone had their eyes on the Dal bench.
Little did they know that a masterpiece was being created as hurried
words were exchanged in that Dal huddle. With time-in they saw the
creation unfold and an instant later they looked up and beheld the finished produet—a scoreboard showing the numerals 32 over the word
Home and the numeral 31 over the word visitor. Picasso couldn’t have
done better . This stirring triumph over the powerful “X” team is a
eriterion of things to come; it certainly has inspired greater spirit
amongst us and we can thank a fighting team who overcame the odds
to stifle the graceful efforts of the Xavarians.

* DS us *

   

In dress and journalism style is most pronounced. On our local
newspaper there is a writer whose style I may say is rather primitive
let alone vulgar, but ye he writes it in a chummy fashion. And the
place he chooses to get chummy is in the dressing room of the local |
senior hockey team after a game. I would indeed like to see his style |
employed after a basket ball contest like that of Tuesday nite. I can |
see it now—

It was a great game. In fact it was a really great game. Both
teams played smart ball and Rocky oJnes was outstanding for the winners. These are happy boys now showering in thier dressing room (or
dressing in their shower room). “Boy, would I go for a big steak right
now,” cries out Frank Smith wringing out his sweat-soaked shoe laces.
There’s Rocky Jones taking his shower full blast, boy he played a terrific game. 'There’s two players complimenting one another; “Well Joe |
you were really dropping them in the baskets tonite; the two you
dropped. in from the center mark were really great.” “Thanks Eddie,
but that one you dropped in the second quarter was out of this world”. |
, There’s Rocky Jones still in the shower, man, he played a terrific
game. Coach Marty Skerry is really proud of his boys and hopes they
keep up the great pace. “Boy this shower feels good”, yells out Pat
Flinn. He is tall and lanky and really is a playful fellow, blowing |
those soap bubbles through his nose. He possesses natural basketball
ability and has the physical requirements—why he can hold a basketball in each notril. There’s Rocky Jones still under the shower, whatta
player! This victory was costly for the winners as they sustained a serious injury. Poor “Walnuts” MacDonald is on the dressing table having
his toenail rubbed down as the trainer thinks he has sprained it.
“Cuckle” Mollet is also on the dressing table, getting dressed. There’s |
Rocky Jones still under the shower, he played a whale of a game. |

The dressing room of the losers is not so cheerful. There’s Lou |
Philani trying to hang himself by the shower curtain. The coach ip
standing silently and besides he isn’t saying a word. He just stands
with his hands in his pockets trying to find words. He is speechless,

 

(Aw leave him alone, perhaps he has a hole in his pocket). Well, we! be launched. Captain Andy MacKay and center “
| Bengals, are waiting for the rebound,

DAL GIRLS’ VARSITY TEAM

smiling as this victory gives him great pleasure. By now everybody is)
out except Rocky Jones who is still showering, whatta terrific player. |

won’t stay here long as no one is too happy.

Back in the victor’s room and the boys are slowly wending their
way out. The dressing room is almost empty now except for the smell
of sweat and “Walnuts” MacDonald. The coach is sitting down and

The coach is happy as we chat with him and expresses hopes of winning the championship. We give him our best wishes and take leave
with him, (By now Rocky Jones has drowned, but he did play a terrific
game didn’t he?)

Well, thus you see this sportswriter style of writing and you no
doubt are an avid follower of such write-ups—for the laughs.

 

 

¥ “Sensational! Mr. Likkitysplit! Will you say

a word to your legion of admirers about your
impressive victory?”

“Sure—to keep ahead of the other guy use
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic regularly. It beats Dry
Scalp and keeps the hair in first place.’’

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

TRADE MARK

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

NOTICES

The Dalhousie Tigers, Intermediate League Champions, will meet
a Halifax All Star aggregation in
the Gym on Saturday evening at
8.15. The All Stars will be composed of the leading players in the
city, and the game ‘has been arranged to give the Tigers a workout before their next Intercollegiate contest. At 7.00 p.m. the Dal
Grads will take on the Shearwater
hoopsters in a _ regular league
game and at 3.00 p.m. the Girls’
Intercollegiate squad will meet the
Acadia Axettes.

ulation time, with the Bengals leading by a single point, Rudy Pace
of the Blue and White was awarded two foul shots, the Dal rooters

 

Big Rudy Pace, 64” guard of the Xavarians, goes above the rim
of the basket in this exciting action shot taken during the over-time
period of last Tuesday’s game. Chuck Connely of the Tigers is right up

IGERS EDGE X-MEN IN THRILLER
: Vitalone Calls Play and McCoy Flips
In Winning Counter in Final Second

By D. A. KERR, Gazette Sports Editor

Probably one basketball game in fifty has a story-book
finish. [But a game with two Frank Merriwell wind-ups; two
last second surges that could decide the outcome; that, my
friends, comes once in a lifetime!
day evening when the Dal Tigers clashed with the St. F.X.

Xavarians, Dominion Intermediate champions.
When, in the final second of reg- thought the game was! lost. Pace

 

And come it did last Tues
had been deadly with his foul
throws, sinking three for three.
The whole weight of the game now
rested on the broad shoulders of
the big boy from Sydney. He could
tie up the game. He could win it
for the X-Men by tallying on both
shots, or he could lose it by missing both. The first throw was dead
on, tying the score at 30-30. The
next shot would decide the issue.
Big Rudy was nervous. If his
shot was good, his team would take
/a commanding lead in the Intercollegiate League. The ball floated
up, hit the rim, and bounced craz| ily to the side. The game would go
| into over-time!
| As the five minute over-time
period started, Pace again became
the feature player in this drama of
the basketball courts, sinking a
‘free throw that put the X-Men
‘ahead 31-30. Thes Bengals surged
back, desperate now, but couldn’t
find the range. With ten seconds
to play, St. F.X. had the ball. If
they could freeze it for the remaining few seconds, they would add
another sealp to their belts. Then
Chuck Connely of the Tigers got
his hands on the ball. A jump was
called, in the Dal zone, and the
| Bengals called time-out.

 

Five seconds to play! The tired
athletes clustered around their
coach, looking for advice, hoping

| for a play that would give them a

chance,
through!

And the coach came
“Charlie, you jump like

| you never pumped before. Tip the

ball to Andy, then to Seott. MacCoy, you leave your man unguard
| ed—we might as well lose by three

there with Pace and batted the ball out of bounds before the shot could |

points as by one point—break for
the X basket, take the long pass
from Seott, and shoot.”

 

After their 18-10 victory over the
Axettes last Saturday the Varsity
| Basketball team (feminine version)
is all set for the return engagement here on Saturday. This is an
| important game for both teams as
a win for Dal will make them Nova
Scotia Inter-collegiate champions.
The Provincial Hoop started off
with a Dal-Kings series, with the
winner going on to meet Acadia.

}

follows: Marilyn MacIntyre, high| scorer, and an‘ all-round top rate
| player will start off at centre, with
| Betty Cousins, and Gay Esdale on
| the wings. “Cuz” is also in the top
scoring brackets and is really terrifie all the time. Gay just switch_er to forward this term and is cer| tainly living up to all expectations

 

“DANCING
SATURDAY

 

COMPLETE LINES
| of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

 

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

9% Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

 

The starting line-up stands as| work well together. Gerry Grant,
£ :

That’s just the way it worked.
| With one second to play, Gordy
|'MacCoy wheeled and fired a shot.
| The bal arched, hit the backboard,
| and swished through the hoop just
/as the final buzzer sounded. The

ted” Findlay of the
Photo By Glube

| play had worked! The giant-killers,
ALL SET TO MEET ACADIA | the Tigers of Dalhousie, had beaten

the mighty X-Men, 32-81!
and turning in great games.
On the starting guard line, we’ll
find Betty Petrie, Acadia’s greatest |
worry, at center. Guarding the
wings will be Lucy Calp and Jean
MacLeod, and these two aren’t ex
   

   

“The Students’
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and
Sundries, and for unexcelled
Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.
29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

Drug

actly welcomed with open arms by
the players from Appleknockerland. Also up forward will be
Marg “Foo” Grant and Joan Baxter, both are sharp shooters and

being quite versatile puts in time|
on both lines. Betty Merrick is the
fourth guard, always turning in
steller performances.

 

 

 

All Dalhousians Can
Eat Cheaply
AT

Evangeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.

Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m. - 12 Midnight

Corsages

 

  

NURSERIES. Limited...

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

 

 

The Eastern Trust Company

RELIABILITY ...INTEGRITY... PROTECTION
For over 50 years expert administrators of
Fund, Securities and Estates

Branches in six
Eastern Provinces

HEAD OFFICE: 184 HOLLIS STREET
HALIFAX, N, S.

 

 

 
