 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
 
  
     
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
   
  
     
   
    
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
    
   
   
    
    
  
   
  
   
   
    
    
   
  
    
  
  
   
  
   
   
    

—

+

¥

~~!

we

s.

a

~*~,

 

‘OF INTERIOR VISITS DA
HOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1950

George Sakellaridis (above) holder of a UNESCO fellowship,
visited Dal recently on his way to central Canada where he is to study

the federal system of government.

studies on this subject.

Greek Government

While here is made preliminary

Official, George

Sakellaridis,"Visits Law School

The Dalhousie Law School was honoured for the last few
weeks by a visit of George Sakellaridis, Official of the Greek
State Ministry of International Affairs, and member of the

Bar of Athens.

Mr. Sakellaridis is a graduate in Law and

Political Economic Science and is the holder of UNESCO
fellowship and is visiting Canada to make a study of the
Federal system of Government, in order to write a treatise
comparing the Greek set-up with that of a Federal Country.
erties eB aS

Mr. Sakellaridis arrived in Canada on Christmas Day on the Liner
Empress of Canada. He _ spent
séveral weeks in Halifax which he
devoted to a preliminary study of
the Canadian system at the Dalhousie Law School, with the assistance of Dean V. C. MacDonald and
Professer Batt, and C. F. Fraser,
Director of the Institute of Public
Affairs. He was also entertained
in the home of Halifax and Bedford residents.

Asked what he thought of the
Canadian Governmental system he
replied: The Canadian system is
very different from that of Greece.
In Greece we have only one Government because we do not have
those geographic and economic
considerations which necessitate
the division into provinces of this
country. ‘The theoretical study of
your system is very interesting,
especially from the point of view of
structure of the administration services and from the point of view
of international law, constitutional
law, and what is included in the
term “General theory of the State”.
I hope that I shall make many interesting studies about these questions. I admire the intellectual
thinking in this country. In my
opinion the level of intellectual
thought is very high in Canada.”

He explained that in Greece the

law is codified. The laws of Con
tract, Property, Marriage and Divorce, Inheritance, and Commercial
Law are all codified, as well as
Criminal Law. He said, “The
source of Greek constitutional law
that is different from the English
in that our constitutional is all
_ written, .
* hatte , ‘to the statutes of the Legis
The Constitution is su
LAST MINUTE CALL

TENOR VOICES are required by
the Glee Club for the forthcoming
operetta. We have three (8) and
we need at least ten (10) so
TENORS please turn out on Thursday nights at 7:30 in the Lower
Gym. Thanks.

lature. The problems of administration of justice are the same in
Greece as here. The arguments of
theoretical disputes, however, are
very bitter. I believe that the perfect system would be by ADMINI
STRATIVE JUDGES. These tribunals would be so constituted
that the administration would not
be a menace to the judges and that
the Administration and Judiciary
should be separated, to guarantee
dependable and fair justice.”

He emphasized the importance of
the UNESCO fellowship, because,
he said, “The exchange of persons
from country to country is the best
way for the youth of one country
to get to know those of another,
and to communicate culture and,
therefore, become friends.”

Mr. Sakellaridis left Halifax
Tuesday afternoon for Montreal
where he will be met by Professor
Lortie of the University of Montreal, who will introduce him to the
members of the Faculties of Law
of McGill and the University of
Montreal.

He will then proceed to Toronto,
where he will stay for thfee
months, continuing his studies at
the University of Toronto.

 

 

HOMECOMING WEEK
FINANCIAL SUCCESS

 

BASKETBALL

DAL VS.

HARMON
FIELD
SATURDAY

 

No. 20

 

 

 

Civil Service to 2 to Homecoming Com Committee Gives

Provide Jobs for Re

College Students

OTTAWA—tThis year the Federal Civil Service will go into the
market for 450 college graduates,
the Civil Service Commission announced today.

About 175 positions will go to
civil engineers and the remainder
to_graduates in a variety of fields.
They hold out the prospect of an
excellent career.

At the junior levels the starting
salaries will run from around $200
to $225 a month. They may be
considerably higher if the positions
call for a number of years’ experience after graduation.

Most of the appointments will go
to students with a science background, especially those with training in engineering, architecture,
chemistry, agricultural science, mathematics and physics.

About 15 or 20 Junior Administrative Assistants and a few Foreign Service Officers will also be
taken on although the exact number will depend on the quality of
the applicants. A fair number of
economists and statisticians are
also required.

The main need, as suggested, is
for civil engineers for the Bureau
of Surveys and Mapping, a branch
of the Department of Mines and
Resources, and for employment on
various public works and construction programs.

A booklet ‘Careers for College
Graduates’ will also be distributed
and this will contain detailed information on many fields of work,
the closing dates for applications,
and other relevant material.

Incidentally, the closing dates
for applications, except in the socalled continuing competitions, will
fall within the period December,
1949, to February, 1950.

port on Council Venture

The report of the Homecoming Committee was given

Monday by Chairman Bernal Sawyer.
$681.52 was budgeted and $524.47 was

were registered.

A total of 250 alumni

spent, with receipts totalling $601.90, leaving a credit balance

of $77.43.
Mr.

Sawyer thanked Art Moreira who originated the

idea and complimented the Committee and Campus Organiza
tions on their cooperation in the undertaking.

Law Plans Debate
With Osgoode Hall

The Dalhousie Law Society held
its first post-Xmas meeting in the
Munroe Room last Wednesday
noon. The main topic of discussion
was the forthcoming DalhousieOsgoode Hall debate. No definite
decision was reached, but debating
manager Ian Robertson said he
would approach Osgoode Hall immediately on the question of the
debate and the topic for it.

A committee composed of the
three party leaders was appointed
to arrange the annual Mock Parliament. The three leaders are
Doug Robertson, L. Weldon Matthews, P.C.? and George Louckes,
C.C.F.

Hugh J. McPherson was appointed manager of the Law Hockey
Team, and declared that the Law
Boys would take the Varsity team
by at least 6 points. Hughie Mc
Kinnon was appointed Assistant
Hockey Manager.
After a short report on the

Inter - Faculty Basketball, Rudy
Levy and Wally MacDonald
manager and assistant manager respectively.

A letter of thanks will be sent to
Alumni Law member Harris MacDonald, for the work done in compiling the Mortgage notes of Dr.
Moffat Hancock.

as

NFCUS Announces is a Summer
Seminar in the Province of Quebec

A positive and active step
toward national unity is the
object of a three-week seminar to be conducted this Summer by the National Federation of Canadian University
Students, federation president
tichey Love, student at Dalhousie law school announced
today.

One hundred Ridin two for
every thousand Canadian university students—will attend the seminar on a scholarship basis. That
means that Dalhousie University,
with its 1,500 registration, will be
able to send three students.

The three-week program will
run from August 14 to September
4 at Fort Lennox, a federal historical site situated 42 miles from
Montreal.

The faculty will consist of 12
professors and one dean. The latter has already been chosen, in the
person of Dr. Leon Lortis, professor at the University of Montreal.
Three professors will be selected

from each of the four N.F.C.U.S.
regions.

A “Survey of Canada” is the
broad subject of the seminar, divided into three sections, Economies, History and Geography and
Canadian Humanities. These in
turn are broken down again.

Mr. Love, in announcing that
plans for the program were nearing successful completion, stressed
that the purpose of the seminar is
to lead to comprehension of the
various regional problems in Canada, and to direct thought along
the lines of national unity.

The ultimate goal, he said, is to
give the students, from every part
of Canada, the opportunity of
learning the needs and feelings of
the different Canadian regions, and
to develop mutual understanding.

Arrangements for the seminar
are under the direction of the local
N.F.C.U.S. committee at the University of Montreal, under the
leadership of Jean Provost, chairman, and Gilles Bergeron.

a
erie re ee a.

He suggested several changes
for future Homecomings. The committee should be made up of one
representative of each organization
on the campus, leaving the Chairman with no special task but to
oversee the work. He also suggested that a. secretary was needed for future Committees.

The suggestion was made by Mr.
Sawyer that work for the next
Homecoming be started this year.
The event should take place as
early as possible with the second
week in the term as a tentative
date to take advantage of the football season and pleasant weather.

The Council also acknowledged
receipt of a pennant from the University of Montreal. A Dalhousie
pennant is to be sent in exchange.
The University of Montreal pennant will be hung in the Common
Room.

The Council Year Book Committee tabled its report. The 1948-49
Pharos will be available for distribution next month, Although a
few copies may be issued earlier.

A number of budgets chiefly
from the DAAC and the DGAC,
were accepted. Varsity Hockey,

inter-fac hockey, swimming, boxing
budgets were augmiented.

Coen Society to

Hold Annual Dance

“Ooh, looka
pretty.”

That will be the theme of this
year’s Millionnaires Ball to be held
February 10 at the Gym. The feature of the dance will be the crowning of the Campus Queen, better
known as the Sweater Queen.

All the societies and faculties on
the campus are asked to choose
their own individual queens to compete in the Commerce Society contest on the 10th. At present the
boys from the Commerce Classes
are eying the female side of the
Campus and they have their own
opinions (censored of course) of
just who should win the crown.
However, there will be an eager,
panel of judges on hand and it
should be a sw al aitair,

NOTICES

There will be a meeting of the
Junior Class in the basement of the
Arts Building, 12 noon, Tuesday,
Jan. 17. il Juniors are urged to
attend.

there, ain’t she

 

The Physics Journal Club will
meet in the Physics Lecture Room
on Tuesday, January 17 at 5 p.m.
Speakers will be Mr. G. J. B. Crawford who will discuss “Illumination
from Night Skies”, and Dr. W. J.
Chute, who will speak on “The
Path of Carbon in Photosynthesis”,

 
 

CPs PTs
'

 

   
   

TEE an ee

AMERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
Member Canadian University Press

Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
University. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
Students’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
Dalhousie Gazette, Halifax, N. S.

Mat CRP ye hie gs Yala ces MAE BI df hig 83-7098

IER UP NNO si ey claw iui sig 6 on ace 9% Editor-in-Chief
IRR Teles SSE) SU UNC i tncew Gee shim « wlab'e Ria Managing Editor
LE SEE TN ES TS ee Advertising Manager
I MN Sie A a oar sere inland wieW died wiatbrere a Office Manager
TERMINI ey ata odo ida gS. 5) ss volt bie nee, 4 ae 5 Paths iw Sa C.U.P,. Editor

Charles MacIntosh

Valerie Cato (che ttre News a el
Marj Golburgh ........... ein ORR VU EEN RIS Sore bats Feature Editor
Pat Ahern : see
Hk aby ! eee Ceeie Sit yille aie Sites or. die: 0d wie we! ¥s Sports Editors
Sports Reporters......... Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
PU WV FIGOES. ¢ os o's vai bile bob Barbara MeGeogh, Eliphal Nichols

Reporters—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

UNI Pere uy inh see sh ie Cb a, Sdn wal acetalp ys ee'dle Dan Soberman
CRPCOOMEHE ies aks Dave Nicholson, Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
III a EDS can Ste Pe eta dae wis W ticash bs otely’bib.g www « Lucy Calp

PAPERLIUNERATR S20 fo re tn dle Gloria Horne, Rona Yess

‘

 

Vol. LXXXII FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1950 No. 20

Wanted: A Belief in Individualism

(Reprinted from “The Manitoban” )

“No work is ever done collectively, by a majority decision.”
—Ayn Rand

 

Once again the editors of the MANITOBAN have been called
upon to defend the paper’s unorthodox policy of having no policy.
This time the Canadian University Press Conference in Montreal was
the occasion of a debate which, although in all good spirits, brought
out in its long and serious passages basic differences in opinion as
to the function of a student newspaper. It may not be too untimely
to draw from this discussion conclusions which students may well
seriously consider.

- Sparking a two-hour open forum, Clyde Kennedy of the MeGILL
DAILY contended that our practice of allowing every interested
student to have his material published unaltered and unadorned led
to a wishy-washy editorial page in which no opinion could be pointed
to as that of the abstract entity known as “the paper.” Jack Gray
of the Toronto VARSITY joined in by claiming that editorials should
be written under consultation and that the final product should be
a boiled down version of the consensus of opinion. He felt that by
such a system, the prestige and tradition of the VARSITY’S sixty
years’ publishing could be thrown behind whatever is in the lead
column.

Red Lampert of the Dalhousie GAZETTE resolved the question
whether the paper should lead or follow student opinion, and seemed
to feel that under a wide-open policy the leadership was lost in the
effort to mirror the campus. Ray Du Plessis of Ottawa’s FULCRUM
stated that there was a right and wrong to every question and that
the editors were in a position. to point out the right side. The
majority of the delegates joined in the friendly massacre, but the
salient points are outlined above. Although the opinions were well
considered and extremely interesting, we remain unmoved, save for a
slinking fear that all campi are not as democratic as ours,

We do not believe that there exists or should exist an entity designed as the MANITOBAN which will take a position on any current topic and defend it to the death. We do not believe in organizing
campus opinion along certain lines, for we do not believe that the
editors haye the right or the duty, much less the ability to perform
this function. We believe that the editors are individuals, who should
wield no more thought-molding power than is the right of every
student on campus. To deny anyone that right by either assertion
or assumption would be a flagrant violation of our responsibility.

We do not believe in collective thought, because there can exist
no collective mind. Any opinion possessed of integrity ‘and conviction can be best expressed only by one particular person amd only in
his particular way. Statements which are the result of a compromise
or coalition can be neither respected nor understood. We believe that
a student newspaper is not the voice of one man or the collective
voice of a group, but the sum of as many individual voices as wish
to be heard. The sum is vastly different from the common denominator determined by collaboration, for the sum allows the existence of
the parts while cooperation destroys the parts to establish a consensus.

We do not believe in absolute right or wrong, for as a confessed
relalivist, we contend that there exists no final statement on political
or social problems. We believe that the basic questions of human
life remain unsolved and that only by free and open discussion will
we make progress towards understanding and appreciation. Let it
he realized that this attitude does not prevent the holding of convietions, but despite being willing to defend them rather strenuously,
we cannot conceive of forcing our convictions upon someone else, We
demand for others the same psychological and moral freedom that
has been granted us.

We believe that the MANITOBAN provides leadership more adequately than do many other papers because its pages are open to the
persuasive powers of any student. We continue to hope that those
who are incompetent will bow to public scorn and leave those who
say important things to provide the stimulation and leadership.

We believe that this position provides the best assurance that the
social and politieal rights of the students will be safeguarded, for the
beliefs upon which it is based are those which help perpetuate democratic powers. It is based upon a faith in the ability of students to
read, think and decide for themselves, Other systems are limited by
natural boundaries, for the calibre of writing can never exceed the
abilities of the journalistic clique. If the MANITOBAN writers fail
to satisfy, it is net their fault alone, but that of a society which is
failing to provide individual initiative and conviction.

Let us not be ridiculed as idealistic, for progress is based upon
idealism and sometimes dreaming can lead to creation. Those who
eriticize reveal only too little faith in basic democratic processes.

M. §S.

nt, ‘in. » DTN

ee a ee ee

 

Wednesday,
Breakfasted on some toast soaked

January-.1l1, 1950.
in sack; a delightful food for
morning meals and resolved to
continue this practice, I then proceeded to Studlee where all is talk
of the Students’ Doomsday Book,
Faroff. It doth seem that the
Parliament has taken steps to
speed up the publication of the
volume, as some of the students,
especially the Lawyers, have become noisesome of Jate in their
demand for the book, so vain are
some to see their own portraits.

Shoutland,.who was the Editor
of the Doomsdaybook, is willing to
explain his point of view to anybody who will listen, and he does
has a lot of convincing arguments.
While at the Wood Building did
see him expounding to a student
Who agreed with everything he
had to say. I believe that it was
the noted parliamentarian, Gorgon
Cinders,

Did hear that All-fired Hairless
who is to present a case before the
bench of the court. He is to be
opposed by his bosom friend Snarl
Gooseburg. I did hear that both
believe that the justices are prejudiced against them and each expects to lose his case,

Thursday, January 12, 1950.
Passing by the college on the hill
I did meet Miss Doggo, who is on
the staff of the Spectator, Morning Edition. I did remark that she
was wearing a very heavy coat and
did ask her why she did so, for she
had just come from the offices of
the Spectator and this is often a
very warm place indeed. She did
reply that of late when certain
persons, who were not speaking to
each other came into the office of
the Spectator to contribute their
work the air became very chill indeed and she was afeared of contacting a rhume.,

Did go to ‘the Gentlemen’s Assembly Room where I did slide on
the floor and nearly take a tumble,
for the floor was coated with some
slippery substance. Did discover
that this was due to Aijirwick
Bicker, who did coat the floor
heavily with wax for the Asses
and Seance Society weekly Ball.

January, Friday 13, 1950. Up
today on the wrong side of the bed.
Did go downstairs to eat and did
have the misfortune to spill the
salt as I ate. Feeling adventuresome I did decide to tempt fate
and go out and walk about the
streets. I was quickly convinced
of the truth of the old superstitions for the first one I should |
meet was Lightdaughter. I pretended not to notice him but did
not deceive him. He told me that
he was now devoting himself to
his studies and would not waste his
time in association with scurvy
companions and then wished me
good day.

Did meet Airwick Bicker, of the
Publicity and Propaganda Society
of the College on the Hill and did
suggest to him that as a spectacle
to attract persons he should announce that at a certain date he
will climb to the top of the new
building being built at Studlee and
thence jump down to the ground
without a net below. He did not
seem to approve of this scheme
and did leave me in a huff,

 

 

Next I saw Shoutland approaching and did quickly dash into a
side street. Here I did meet
Weeda McKickin. We did discuss
the situation in her home, Cape
Breton, and talk of the parties
held over the festive season: I did
remark that I assumed that she
did not know of these first hand,
for none would invite her to a
party.

Home early, where I applied a
large steak to my sore eye. I do
not think it will turn black at all,

ih
iy

ae (oR
ae

= Pana. hae meee es
ie eee Eg ; a,
rita

DALHOUSIE GAZ

4 a 2

NEVER put A SQUARE PIPE IN A ROUND 74,

     
     
   

When you’ve picked
your pipe right—pick your
tobacco right. Pick Pigobac '
the pick of pipe tobaceos.

icobac

Picobac is Burley Tobacco—the coolest, mildest tobacco ever grown

 

All Dalhousians Can
Eat Cheaply
AT

Evangeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.
Full Ceurse Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00

Corsages

NURSERIES Limited --.

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage de
signed by ROSEDALE Foutain Service
speaks eloquent volumes OPEN DAILY

of tenderness and love.
RASS RU aS RASS eee Ae

8 a.m. - 12 Midnight

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

 

W atch for the
Gazette Gambol

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

9’, Prince St. 
 

 

Dial 3-8539

IT PAYS
TO SHOP

at EATON'S

 

- Largest Assortments

- Best All-’Round Values

- Goods Satisfactory or
Money Refunded

LIMITED

 

=

sere *

 
; i ; / , +) 4 | Piet , ; os tiprh Ry rare ere. ; / 7 ial é '
pers a tad al eh 3 ogee ae , ee ie os ' ae a ra Ba ie ae wl ce : Ls i i 1 e w
— TSOUAREK | _ Meditations (Federal Aid Brie
Pe ‘ _ gs Th a FF a? : i ay ry ie ey ar Hib Paewntat -*
yf _ ane = Ws ey ¢
Te uf : .

A ei (from “The Catanna Story’)

endured is adel eb be eld Friday, rss 3rd, at} They told him that back in the Presented J an uary 20

great - Xmas “recupera- | the Nova Scotian, with Les Single| hills of ‘Tennessee there was a

      

Cog

 

       

, 1 the recuperation after|dealing out the decibels. Judging|caye whose waters, once tasted, A 3l-page brief prepared by the National Federation of Wd
> “recuperation”, the occupants|from past performances the Ball| chained the drinker to the hills| Canadian University Students will be submitted to the Royal ce
the: aoe are once more back | should be a sell-out, so one and all|foreyer. This legend, he reflected, Commission on Arts Science and Letters in Halifax. a
| the old stand. are advised to get their tickets|speaks of love, fer once a man Richey Love, Amherst student at Dalhousie University Law of

On the sporting side, the En- early. Incidentally, we can report tastes of the wine of first love he School and president of N.F.C.U.S. announced last night the brief Hi

gineers’ entry in the Inter-Fac|/that last November’s “Boiler-|is chained to its memory forever. | would be submitted to the Royal Commission
asketball League meets its first | makers’ Booster’ was an unqual-| Love of the hills, love of woman,} Friday, January 20th.
jonent Saturday at 2.00, when |ified success, both financially and|love of God—different purposes A summation of two years’ work by N.F.C.U.S. committees across
‘it tackles the highly-touted Meds. | socially (as nearly two hundred|but the same emotion. In each Canada, the brief deals with:
The squad which has been practis- | couples can testify). case it is a myth, a creature of 1. Federal Scholarships and grants-in-aid to university students
i o under the guiding hand of Jim| Sometime during the next month | the imagination, a picture and a| with high scholastic standing.
Missed expects to take the floor|the freshmen will hold a smoker,|retreat that each man uses to
- resplendent in its newly acquired which, it is hoped, will bring 1st|soften the unpleasantries of life
_ black-and-white uniforms, year men into closer contact with] and to see the world as he would
Also facing its first game is the | their brethren in 2nd and 3rd (and| like to see it.
-_ Inter-Fac hockey team; Tuesday |4th and 5th and 6th!) years. All Such as this is love: “—you’ll
- noon is the tentative date set by | arrangements have been placed in| never know how much I miss you.

at Province House, ts

2. Help in the form of loans to university students who do not
qualify under section 1.

3. Views and recommendations on the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.

Making the submission will be Richey Love; Jack Madden of the

eu, 58 University of Toronto, a former editor of The Manitoban, st
| Manager Bud Kingsbury. the hands of the inimitable Bob] i’m so in love, I cannot sleep and Lat ! Steet cisely ‘ anes * me Bbudent
iin of th Flash) Pavi maliasatea wilt be ’ ay newspaper at the University of Manitoba, and a possible third meme- 8, of course, is the an-/| (Flash) Pavia, and s our love eee nd 5°! ber, Gilles Bergerons, president of the Student Union of the Univer; nual Engineers’ Ball, which will’ on the house. a myth, a vision is formed, and if

sity of Montreal.
The brief represents the findings of N.F.C.U.S. committees and
inquiry groups initiated as early as 1947.

fate frustrates the romance the
vision will remain, burning in the
heart forever and destroying the

ae Correction eins ienuebility te iove like: that At the federation’s annual conference in Montreal in December,

again, making of future: loves a 1948, a student committee was formed to look into the cost of educa? . . * . ‘

Weis idupotedinie ii the composition of such a work, the} comparative and superficial thing. tion for the average university ahument Br Canada. This supplemented

‘Students’ Directory contained some inaccuracies in its lists|For the heart is free no longer ee investigation carried out in 1947 by the N.F.C.U.S. scholar
of students. The Editor, Dave Snow, has compiled a list of |and the perfection of the memor-|8™P inquiry committee.

 

 

 

   
  
    
 
   
     
    
   
    
    
    
   
  
  
     
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
    
  
    
      
   
    
   
 
    
  
      
  
    
      
   
   
     
   
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
  
    
  
     
 
 
 
 
   
       
   
     
     

 

 

 

: cas bn Pheer al a oe The report of the 1948 committees, operating at the University
these, and it is presented below in a form Sree ney Used pes meintai their everlasting > of British ‘Columbia ind the Univ ersity of Taian was pr ent
ere i 3 as rersity ( ras prese
in the Directory;to be clipped and included in your copy. fect. So the vision lives on com- Bhi RSME TLA ay cand: # Gddaaine ilvaite hy = dak:
} | | manding always that any new in-|to the National Conference of Canadian Universities in Halifax in
Phone Name Faculty Local Address Hone Town C e : saa Xord ‘ .
See AME LOWEN: Biss sla cs bnieees ehee L 271 Tower Road ........Summerside P-E.l. [ fatuati t find expression in June, 1949 by a committee consisting of Gordon Gwynne-Timothy,
Saeed Ateine Sc Seles - USA atuation must find express :
ns, ae éorge ee es artaret street ee ee oe . the old, Ross Hamilton and Richey Love.
coun saa fee gto baraaneeni line es S at Waterloo Street....New Waterford, N'S. However this thing we name At this meeting it was decided that both groups, N.F.C.U.S. and
Be ilewsasstaestee M 222 Oxford Street........ Charletown, P.E.L. , b pe ea . 2
2-2370 Brooks, Ralph W.................. M 66 Seymour Street....... 50.0 Amherst, N.S. | Jc that in fact is eal and | N.C-C.N. would present briefs to the Royal Commission. The N.C.C.U.
22110 Bunt, Douglas H D 31 Oakland Road ; fabn'a did. do? ee 2 eaC Is: 8O Unreal an me .
he 348497 Burnett, Alva. .......c-sscs0sreneee € 10 Cornwall Street.2.00007002.) Bristol, N.B. | diverse, and in effect so real; that | brief was presented in Ottawa in July.
, ate onan A, LEMME tech obs caved ae pete ae ove Mite N Se bis. oo pure ane, yet so. comMer-| - > er oe
weet. 'Carppbell. Bert Gis eile alae L. 7 Lady Hammond Road... Winsloe, P.E.L. oy < ‘ ry]
4-6987 Campbell, OT lank hb vau seed C 3 Forrest PRG tds vats ls Glace Bay, N.S. cialized; 50 good and yet a evil,
a-2493 -Christie, Walter Loi... codecs vdesess § 117 LeMarchant Street........ Armdale, N.S. Jis old while young, inevitable
3-3259 Cogswell, Ray <......ccccececscuss © Th Cedar Streets iwc Halifax, N.S. ree . oa
2-2244- Cyr, Virgitiig. ....>.... es PHN 331 Spring Garden Road..Edmundston, NB. | While uncertain, and in every
S060) Dey, Gerald oot loic veces Pine Hil Residence............ Dildo, Nag, {Phase is inexplicable in its own
2-2133  Dunfield, Anthony H.......2...... M 46 Edward Street..........St John’s, Nfld. | complexity.
he 3-012 Ferguson, Pierre ..........00 000. PM 82 Oxford Street...............Shiela, N.B. Bacon once said one cannot love
| -2-3887 Good, Donald B. .....c..c.scecee L 23 Rockcliffe Street ......... Parham, Ont, |@nd yet be wise. How pathetic! . 53-9524 Good, Harold G. ..0.....scaseee +208 Site Pane Sen eeeevene Fredericton, N.B. Jally true. Anthony’s sacrifice of
33762 Goodyear, Forntioe’ Sis sis. aces ee ae Siar seer ara ide, ro Nfld. |honour for Egypt’s queen; or the
-$172 Goulding, Gordon L............... M UDitee) NOad. 6s. 6... srandfalls, Nfid. . ’
2-3106 Greene, Harold .......-..c. 0002 “C 46 Henry Street............Springhill, N.S. }Dlood that spilled for Helen’s
s 39669. Greer, John Misescccess es vapcuveds P ete. Zan nenes River Hebert, N.S. [beauty is indicative of how wisbg oral dom knows not the aid of love.
3-4836 Hatherley, Jack w. Bese goth [L 7 Oxford Street........ River Hebert, N.S. ots . Ke
4-3804 Hayward, Clinton ................. Dp 39 panen SWORE onl xos Lost Hartland, N.B. |For love, no matter how essential,
4-6228 Herring. Friend S. ................ M 55 Windsor Street....Murray River, P.E.I, | , "
_ 4-2651 Hines, Maynard W. ............... p 108 Lawrence Street.......... Arlington, N.S. ae weakness. As the bloom of a rh
(ps. $9745 Hoffman, Phyllis ...0.0000000/22020) G Shirreff Ha cigs Joke, N-B. | wisdom falls beneath its stroke, ; a
3-9745 Hogan, Joan F. SES LS NE Ma Tk a =) TR A . John’s, Nfid, 5 , a cte ; ‘ PRACTICE ae
$209 Hollins, D. Sows. eee A. 29 Cornwall Street.-.......... "Halifax, Ns. |love’s devitalizing power will un- aA
4-4339 Holmes, Donald C....,............. c 38 Edinburgh Street......... Windsor, N.S. ne ; art ale - we
2-2892 Howse, George W. ................A 11 Welsford Street....... Greenspond, Nfld, aoe pa stow 7 of wie oe 5 = TONIGH
: that its culture dies easily under a
3-9774 Ikwuemesi, Michael D............... Men’s Residenee............ Nigeria, B.W.I. ’ . :
Bie. love’s sensuous hand.
2-4674 Kennedy, Bill 00.5. occ cscs cess ceces 0 Edward Street. ........00-+.. Truro, N.S. ats
3-2475 Kirkpatrick, Hugh P................ 286 Quinpool Road........../ Aylesford, N/S. Then A.J. thought of Catanna. —
Ww eran? Bavey! Rude cute ~ 105 Edward Street ...... New York, U.S.A. That love then, he said, though == —SS
3.5584 fetes) NiOR” lsc G Maribor Woods tetas site Halifax, N.S. }lost, must live forever, but only in — S=>
-4795 . ; 3 Southw Pres ous ha Hamilton, ; : . —
TAO) ee W, UE ROMES GC. osigic ss esasecare aes L Wood UTrive damilton, Ont memory. The sorrow is that it SS
3-4225 MacAulay, James A...:............ A 12 Cornwall Street. 2.05.4... Ottawa, Ont. ; , I. iat) 4 — —
2-2520 MacHain, Arthur ............6.00+ L _!3 Vernon Street .......New Glasgow,N.S. walt Hever. He Roatatically peat —= =
2-2244 MacCarthy, Moyra ........006s PHN 331 Spring Garden Road.....Moncton, N.B. |tured,. And so this bitter conclu- ——
3-5773 _MacCoy, Gordon R. .............. G _2 Cornwall Street is. i. Windsor, N.S. ‘ as —
2-416 MacKay, Baillie .......... bP ec A 322 Morris Street ............. Halifax, NS. [Sion was that love exists merely —
MacKay, SiN Wat rion aces: Wied] Vw Gs: EPOSBIRE Sista ly Pictou, N.S. Rey 5 wedi i . ——S
3.3501 McKenna, Kevin J. 0.7017". C 22 Yale Street......... Kelly's “Cross, PET. | °° destroy, to give and then to take | =
2-4677 McKinnon, Sylvester .............. 1. 103 College Street........ New Glasgow, N.S. | away; to replace beauty with the :
~~ 3-8801 McLanders, Elinor Mea aes aoc rl SSATP PRED SABO yas Salargttae kia Grerblvag Halifax, N.S.
3-2873 MacLeod, William A............. PM 18 Quinpool Road.............Sydney, NS, |$Nawing emptiness of unhappiness.
4-8078 MacNeill, Amelia V............ PHN 49 London Street........,.. Dominion, N.S. | Am I ever, he thought, to go
3-4790| Margolian, Samuel ................ C 5 Beech Street, ......... 090.8 John, N.B. | searching vainly, hoping to find
3-89747 Melski, Stanley K. ...........00006 IL ~SO' Inglis Street .....1. Sih stein ofe aimee N.S. ie 4 ;
3-9803 Morrison, Roddie M. ............./ A Men's Residence ....... reais Kviee Halifax, N.S, my vision and knowing it cannot
2-3653. Murray, J. Robert: oo... ..ce cece p 364 Robie Street

“RR forpeaty, bye, Halifax, N.S. be found? And these lines he re
3-1488 O'Halloran, Dominic ............ Ed _7 Quinpool Road............. Sydney, N.S. | called sadly:
Willow Tree Apts, tg
4-2400 O’Hara, William S. .............. L. Hit, Hotel Fairview 2.03.0. Toronto, Ont. One love grows green when one
= SiR Phillips, Orville ....0.....2.0s0000- D 189 Portland St. 24.4604... O Leary, P.E.I, turns gray, !
. 94-1912 Pierre, Leon .i......ecsbassacees PM 20 AMAR SUCRE okies cic des ‘dos, B.W.I. i , ing o st |
3-9421 Powell, Audrey A............... Mus Alexandra Hall’.............. Sydney, N.S. This ore knows nothing of la ad

 

 

 

 

4-3934 Power, Robert C. ...........0.005, M | Maplewood Drive ......: Armdale, N.S. year,
3-4836 Robertson, Ian R...............055- L 7 ea PSE re ee E si reey, N.S. Tomorrow has no more to say,
2-3154° Robison, Ralph F...............-., C. 24S Robie Street oisiscccs..- ‘town, P.E.T, ”
3-4277 Rountree, Seddon V: ...<..c.cceseue an Vernon Street? .ovisviaus sys Verdun, Que. To Ainege:” AJ Sa
w, pe m Sg
Sr AMNE SOE oa s sss she vndoticsens L oot 4, ee pevewbeee New Glasgow, N.S. 7 . ir ywonde? if they
ulgrave Park
‘ey VS-S01S Sawler, Joyce B. <2... ei ier ease Ed 227 Spake gee Road ...... Bridgewater, N-S. | »
B-5946, Schwartz, Jack. soci... screen ceses PM §47-Larch Street.......5..44, New York City SCHO 0 lt Da
P2Mo Sinith, Barbara Re ate ay eee Mee cos -soydney, NS LARSHIPS OFFERED need a good basso
2- mit BEPACS AIR |) Ss «aise be He N ymour Street oc cess: h' town Sk ; |
Base  SORVOU: I Ws eck ad ciae vais beg ed at es A 332 South Street.......... New Tusket, N.S. The Hudson s Bay Company to i Egbert’s basso may not be mucho pro2-4147 Sproule, Hugh D. ...........0200 4! A 24% South Street. ........... Kingston, Ont. |day announced that applications Z :
ariel) Wees74 “Stott; Nelson Wi... ii. -- see see ee M Apt. 19, House 2,.,...... Pleasantville, N.S, fundo, but his knowledge of financial
Mulgrave Park may now be made for two scholar- d Denia hake
versky ai : rard. Street 03.008 ; 's, Nfld. : x i , . ‘ es
3-4231 Swersky, Lorraine .......cc0..e005 A 14 Howat treet St. John's, Nfld ships for study in the United matters gia cep. Vuring Nis pain baaics
PAR MOUSE alse entasy ocd ncnce’ Le serve ee eeesaserscessrrenss Sherbrooke, Que. | Kingdom. The scholarships are at college, Egbert has been practising
3-3542 Tanner, Donald H. ............%.- Be 07 RAPT treete ia wees icles Lunenburg, N.S. ee eae
2-2240 Totten, Walter S. ........0+-.526 M 319 Spring Garden Rd.,.Sydney Mines, N.S. | tenable for one year and are for money management at “MY BANK”,
2.3521 Urquhart, Howard D. ..........0. S 268 South Street ............ Parrsboro, N.S. graduate study hi Advanced | Like thousands of students from coast
mm ¢ . : ‘ y Str. > .
3-2133 Warman, PIED Roi race yi ch 84 ces PHN Westminster Apts ie eee bd eee Bass River, N.S, bi rue res Administ ration, P to coast, he s been salting away the stuff
e 2.2751 Weinberg, ae Rink 6 bea os RES AeSD : or sooth rect in whld eb it nueaee Cnt Applicants may secure details | a bi ehis a a
"No phone West, Gerald ...........0c0s0> 2 Lakeview Drive......Lockhartville, N.S. n a Savings a unt a
Soe eenan, Thomas ASAT EET M 16 Victoria Road.......... Little Bay, Nfld. | through the offices of the Princi- * or . § ¢
pals of all Canadian Universities, | B of M. Now he’s got a reserve fund to

 

Winnipeg and through the Com- and, what’s more, by handling his own
pany’s.department stores in Win- financial affairs, he’s getting rich — in

financial know-how.

|
at the Company’s head office in | draw on when that heavy date comes up
Come on Students

  
   
        

Ride In The Best nipeg, Saskatoon, Calgary, Edmon
3-S TAXI SERVICE

They’re Popular

Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

ton, Vancouver and Victoria.

 

Why don’t you get hep to this angle,
and join in the chorus of money-in-the
Phone Pi Phone bank hallelujahs.

3-7188 3-7188
LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

Te NOVA Soa

 

U4a-4

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

? Be sure the famous Birks
| Blue Box encloses your

ee abit feat:

BankK oF MONTREAL

 

Compliments of

JOE and TOM wales

Diana Sweets Meet Your Friends at
7* Rem

SUE eae LT

WORKING WITH CANADIANS IN EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

 

Rivie R . Halifax Branch: — ; JOHN A. HOBSON, Mer.
ra Kestaurant JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mer.
85 Sprin Garden Bead North End Branch: | CHARLES SMITH, Mer.
ee Quinpool Road and Kline St.: JAMES L, McGERRIGLE, Mgr.

: ; 2 ih atlas diay ithe anise 2 1 Buse si Pls TLL ww, ett ok s Le i é = s jhe 2 Aun es
  
 

3)
;
a

ee

 

 

_ Whether or not you are a keen supporter of the game of basketball,
you have to acknowledge the amazing progress the game has made
here in Halifax. A few years ago the game was confined to the “experimental” few who, like unsung heroes, played the game before scant
crowds and tolerable criticisms. Now the craze is well pronounced.
This is well shown by the number of leagues that are in operation.
So now more people than ever are playing basketball; even in Hollywood those celestial forms called “stars” are taking to the game. (It
is interesting to note that the most effective style of offence is called
the screen play.) So far this paragraph has been devoted to illustrating the growing popularity of the game. Now comes a plug for the
initiation of a Dominion Inter-collegiate League. Canadian universities could be incorporated into different conferences according to their
geographic location and the winners of these conferences play for the
Dominion title. In other words, just like the “States”.

 

* * * *

Tomorrow night the Dalhousie squad will face a team which
has already established a legendary aspect due to a player called
“Bozo” Johnson. The game should feature play on a par with
the calibre of action in the St. John-Atlantic game. Like all pals,
we should get out and cheer for the team.

ee
Boxing, the only sport that features queer nasal sounds (except
perhaps bullfighting) is collecting momentum on the campus with the
Intercollegiate meet soon on tap. Many have turned out to contest
as representatives for the eight weight divisions.

* * * *

Last Saturday Mr. Dick Birch stifled the efforts of Noel
Hamilton and Dick Rouse in a sprightly exhibition of badminton.
The Dal boys showed more ability and finesse than had been
attributed to them. As for Mr. Birch himself, he displayed his
powers like an old master as far as badminton was concerned,
but his cogent remarks and his beaming smiles were as annoying
as a subdued bunp. One comes to an athletic event to see the
sport and not a couple of rows of dental ability. Perhaps this
observer is a little too harsh and biased about Mr. Birch. After
all, professional men develop secondary personalities. Actors, for
instance, develop a stage personality aside from their own. |
guess I should have deduced that Mr. Birch has a “bird” personality.

* % ES *

We are informed that, contrary to the opinion of the ever-present
groaners ‘round the campus, the Varsity hockey squad is ‘surprisingly
strong. The boys have a dark horse in the person of John McKinnon,
late of the Antigonish Bulldogs, and are all set for their big annual
trip to Grand Falls. On the 27th of this month they leave, by plane,
no less (no more dog sleds for our boys) for the Isle of Newfiejohn.—
Brickbats to Mr. Fred Kelly for not sending us a copy of the Intercollegiate schedule. Nobody knows who plays who or where.

 

Coca-Cola brings you

EDGAR BERGEN with

CHARLIE McCARTHY | B@@

Every Sunday Evening
Dominion Network

and CFRB

  
   
     
 

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

Tune in GHNS - 9:00 P.M.

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

—————— es = te a ——
7 7 o ry

*ATS CAGERS SINK SAILORS 57-27

iiaghinsctdistthasttaniadinaljosunthamapesantios eS

Dents, A. & S. Win
To Open Cage Loop

The Arts & Science entry in the
Interfaculty Basketball League defeated a hapless but energetic
Pre-Med team 47-19. The Arts
and Science team lead by Dave
‘Spider’ Janigan, and Jack ‘Hooker’
Schwartz took the lead early in the
first half and were never in danger
of losing it for the rest of the
game. The score at half time was
15-12 in favor of A & Sc.

The second quarter opened with
a bang, the bang of human bodies
flying about. This half was char-|
acterized by rough play, “Ozark |
Ike” peg shots, and ragged referee- |
ing. There were a total of 17 fouls
ealled on both teams during this
half alone. Gibby “Red Flash
Ried, in his new red flannels, was
outstanding in his coverage of the
play. He called them the way he |
saw them, and turned in the most |
egoirredescent arbitration ever!
seen in the Dal Gym. Much credit |
should be given Mr. Reid for his)
amount of control over the game.

a)

The Arts and Science men, after |
a lengthy pep-talk by co-coach|
Dave X. McCurdy, really opened
up and lead by Ian Henderson and
Dave Genge, outscored the future
M.D.’s, 32-7. Cruikshanks and
Drysdale were the big guns for
Pre-Meds.

 

In an interview after the game, |
Coach McCoy stated that he expects big things from his boys in
the future, and with the League
still in its infancy, they still have
lots of time to show their stuff.
Coaches McCurdy and Henderson
predict a league title for their boys
this year. Ralph Medjuck turned in
a spectatarly accurate job of timing. Doc Fancy was chief scorer.

 

What price glory! Shown above |
is the Law Rugby Team, Inter-fac |
champions of 1949. Standing, from |
left to right: Ron MacDonald, Art|

Moreira, Jim (Palmer, Art MacDonald, Ron Caldwell, Wally
MacDonald, Don Kerr, Ron Downie
and Bob “Gunz” Grant. Front row:

‘B’ Team Downed by Dartmouth

“B” team inthe girls hoop loop
went down to defeat at the hands |
of the Dartmouth Basketball Club
on Tuesday night. The game was
very ragged, with neither team
shining in any particular way. The
score ended up 28-13 for the visitors from across the Harbour. Our
forwards haven’t got their shooting eye as yet, and our guards—
well—, let’s say that there were
Just a few too many openings, here
and there,

The team and we quote a reliable
source, is in “awful shape”. No excuses are being made, but the
“B’s” are out to regain their prestige which was slightly shattered
in Tuesday’s (and we quote again)
“general brawl’.

. Lillian Butts led the scoring for
D.B.C., Helen Smith put in a
strong game, and Gertrude Somers,
with her “one-handed-push-shot”

Seott
|page as he

‘teamed up to score 19 points in
|four minutes with only one reutrn

 
  

—— —— - ———— ——— . —_— 4 ‘oo or ° 3s

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   
    

 

Tremendous Tigers Trample Tough
Tars to Lengthen Hoop Loop Lead

In one of the roughest basketball games seen this year in the Halifax Intermediate Basketball League, Dalhousie Flying Tigers added to
their string of victories by trimming the Stadacona Sailors, by a 57-27
score. The Navy were aided by the stellar floor work of big Ed Healy,
former South End star. The South End squad, cellar-dwellers since the
start of the season, have dropped out of the league, and the Sailors
were lucky enough to grab Healy, one of the loop’s leading scorers,
before his former team-mates, the Grads, could sign him up.

The contest took place on Tuesday night at the Shearwater Gym
as the opening attraction of a double-header. In the wind-up the
Grads topped the Shearwater squad by a 59-83 score.

Starting a very slow first quar-..while guards Coe and Healy shone
ter, Stevens of Navy opened the for the Sailors,
scoring with a long set-shot. The The win keeps the Bengals on
surged back, led by slick|top of the league with five victorChuck Connelly, to rack up four|ies and no defeats, Grads are in
consecutive baskets, and two foul| Second place, with one loss in five
10-2. Kitchen of | games followed by Navy with two

Cats

shots to lead

 

Navy countered with two nice|Wins. Shearwater trails the pack
hook shots and a foul to close the| With one win and four losses.
gap to 10-7. From this point on, it Big news of the week comes

was all Dalhousie. Big ‘Bucky’ |from the Grads who have obtained
Tanner came up with the sweetest| the service of big “Doe” Accocella,
play of the game as he pivoted in|former Fordham star, and during
the keyhole and shoveled out a/the baseball season, hard hitting
perfect hand-off to Earl Smith who|rightfielder of the Dartmouth Arlaid it up for two points. Guard| rows ball club. “Doc” is at present
Henderson went on a ram-|condueting a basketball school in
dropped in three|the harbor town, and should be of
straight one-handers from center| tremendous help to the Grads. Too
and the half ended with the Tigers | bad they couldn’t have grabbed Ed
on the heavy end of a 27-12 tally. | Healy also. The Grads are only
Nh EE eee Ue sisted. | one game behind the Tigers and the
Mahon, Henderson, and Connelly | #¢4!tion of Accocella should make
. |their next encounter very interest
‘ing.
Beary dhol Nave, | Dalhousie—Mahon 14, MacDon: ‘ald 1, Connelly 12, Henderson 13,

the game was fairly slow with the | : 4 : Windlay 2

“A. : ° ac av Zz : ‘TSC ay ai

Sailors holding their own as Healy | M ucKay 2, Robertson 1, Findlay
Tanner 2, Black 4, Smith 4.

and Coe flipped in long shots, and 4 2
Pattendon, the leagues Navy—-Kitchen 5, Pattendon 9,
Co . , < x

ie Wag obertso , Coe 8, Stevens 4

scorer, roared in for several lay- | oe ee a : : Si “iN a iL.
-|Healy 5, Edwards, + n a

ups. Bob Black, tall center-man of |“©&*Y ° eae RENEE ,

the Tigers sank two baskets to end | Alder.
ee with the Bengals a | NOTICE |
Henderson, Connelly, Mahon, and | Would the Dereon WHO pices me
Pannen aisha aut tor’ the Tiers | the crocodile case and notes from
rc the gym during the examination
period please be kind enough to return at least the notes to the
Gazette office.

The remainder of

 

leading |

 

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price

 

ec]

Chis Lyons, Art MacDonald, Hec | ao

AWN
Pothier, Hughie MacPherson, Rudy | Ay
Levy, and Ray Cochrane. The Law- \\

‘ Uy tt} \\Ey
yers went through the UN, 7
schedule unbeaten and Pini

entire
unscored- |

on; the first time this feat has been
accomplished since the Freshmen |
did it in 1944,

 

A\ \\ :

 

(more quotes), kept D.B.C. out in
front.

Joan Baxter (of Intermural
league fame) was top “B” point
getter. She put in 9 of our 18, AY\\
Caroline Weld put in a stellar per- \ \\\
formance on the guard line. This AN
was the first game for the home AX
team, so they are all out te notch oy y
up their first win when they en- iy
counter the Grads. a) ¥

Varsity Basketball will get un- 2M. eas .

: ; mn . rate
derway soon, There wil be a
home-and-home series with King’s
and a trip to Acadia for the winner, (let’s hope it’s the Black and
Gold).

Hockey got underway at the
Forum on Tuesday, Miss Evans put
the girls through their paces. Before too long we should have a
good team. ‘The truck to take the
players up leaves the Hall at 12.30.

And remember tube-skates are better than figure skaes!!

 

 
