 
 

  

2

sh

7

 

| THURSDAY

 

‘STUDENT
‘FORUM ~

   
 

 
  

  

  
   

—Photo by Glube
Bachelor’s Row. At the Delta Gamma Open House, held Saturday,
the above group was caught, sitting on the steps near the dining room,
looking as if they had lost their last girlfriend, (especially the one on

the left.) Perhaps they hoped to be the first to get the refreshments.

 

Delta Gamma Society Holds Annual

Open House Dance

At Shirreff Hall

 

The annual Open House, sponsored by Delta Gamma, was held
Saturday eVening at Shirreff Hall.
A large number of Dalhousie students attended and danced to the

“music of Ted Rountree’s orchestra.

There was dancing in the main
hall, and for those who were more
inclined bridge
games were the order in the main

to relaxation,
library. Refreshments were served
later in the evening.

The chaperones for the occasion
were Dr. and Mrs. Harry Smith
and Mr. and Mrs. Chevy.

The entertainment committee of
Delta Gamma for the occasion consisted of Isabel Russel, Gretchen
Marnie Stevenson, Taffy
Barb

Fraser,
Parker,
Lohnes.

Joan Baxter and

ee

Boudreau At Newman
Club Convention

Jack Boudreau, fourth year
Medical Student, and President of
the Dalhousie Newman Club, attended the annual convention of

the Canadian Federation of New
man Clubs, held November 3-6 at

- Queen’s University, Kingston, Ont.

Pax Romana, the World Congress of Catholic Student Organizations urged that all students support the ISS. ISS. has declared
that all money raised through
purely Catholic sources will be
given in aid of Catholic students.

It was decided at the convention
to discontinue the publication of
the Newmanite, official paper for
the club, but to send out an executive bulletin every month.

On behalf of the Dalhousie Newman Club, Mr. Boudreau extended
an invitation to the Convention to
meet in Halifax next year.

By virtue of being President of
the Dal Club, Mr. Boudreau became a ‘member. of the Council of
Presidents i in ‘the new Executive

Student Forum To Be
Held Thursday Noon

The first of the three Student
Forums required by the constitution to be held each academic year
will be held in the Gym on Thursday, November 24 at 12 noon.

The most controversial item on
the agenda will be the delayed
publication of Pharos, the Dalhousie Year Book. The book was
scheduled to come out last April
but has not yet appeared on the
campus and is still in the hands of
the printers.

The much discussed subject of
the cancelled ACADIA TRIP will
also be brought up at the Forum.
The reasons for the forfeiture of
the games were withheld at the
request of the authorities of the
two universities. All the facts
will be brought to light on
Thursday.

The question of a future rink for
Dal will be discussed. The facts
concerning the Dal-Kings Agreement will be made known. A report on the activities of The Homecoming Week will be given. Any
other business’ which a_ student
chooses to bring up will be discussed when the agenda has been
covered,

All students are permitted to express their opinions and anyone
with a grievance will be given
every opportunity to express his
views.

Professor Johnstone
Receives Appointment

Professor J. H. L. Johnstone,
M.B.E., O.B.E., M.Se., Ph.D., Head
of the Physics Department, was
appointed last week as a member
of the National Research Board, to
fill a vaeaney caused by the untimely death of Dr. W. Henderson,
who passed away this summer.

Dr. Johnstone has been on the
staff of the University for a number of years, and the news of his

appointment was received with in
terest by his friends.

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1949

 

 

Dal NFCUS bien
Reports On Survey

One of the most important functions of the Dominion-wide chain
of NFCUS committees is to gather
information about student activities, welfare, etc., and forward it
to such organizations as request or
could benefit from the information.

In the course of one of these
surveys, the Dalhousie committee
of NFCUS found that the Science
department enjoys considerable
support in the form of Studentships, Fellowships, and Grants-inAid; the humanities here receive
no attention whatsoever from institutions. The National Research
Council has provided about $12,000
work of Studentships, Fellowships,
and Bursaries for graduate students. In addition the Council and
the Defense Research Board have
extended generous Grants-in-Aid to
professors on the faculty here for
specific research projects. Nothing
we found by the NFCUS committee to compare with the treatment
in the Arts department, which
President Kerr recently asserted
was the central one of this University.

It has been suggested that apart
from direct financial aid, such as
scholarships, there are other equally important ways of extending
benefits to students specializing in
the humanities. One of the most
important steps in any future program of federal aid to education
would be the creation of National
Library whose first tasks would be
to compile a list of all books to be
found in all governmental and
eollege libraries, and to arrange
for the reproduction of books and
documents which cannot be moved
from their present location. This
is the step strongly recommended
by the Dalhousie Committee.

The listing of scholarships available across Canada and the compilation of statistics concerning
scholarships and their distribution
in the various fields of education, is
another project the local committee is actively engaged in. Still
other projects, still in their embryonic stage will be investigated
and developed by the committee
later in the session but the details
of which cannot be divulged now
less the committeemen be accused
of “much smoke and no fire.”

Taggers Needed

The 1L.S.S. committee is in urgent need of taggers for the
Tag Day this coming Saturday.
The objective for the Tag Day
is stated in the lead story on
this page. When you consider
that your turning out Saturday
morning may well assist people
here at Dal some of whom may
be your personal friends surely
you will lend your aid. Arrangements will be posted on
the campus Thursday.

 

    
  

ZJoaunousit ¢ GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

  

STUDENT
FORUM
IN GYM
THURSDAY
NOON

    

 

No, 15

 

1.9.5. AIDS STUDENTS
OF STERLING AREA

“ee Dal ISS To Hold Tag Day To
Raise Scholarship ty

An immediate result of the fourth annual conference of
the International Students Service held in Montreal Nov.
11-13 is the setting up on the campus of a group of scholarships for students from the sterling areas who have been
affected by devaluation of the pound. In view of the great
amounts of money that these students have lost through
devaluation the campus ISS committee has taken immediate
action to raise funds for the setting up of these scholarships.

   
   
   
   
   
   

Permission has been given by the city to hold

this Saturday.

a Tag Day

The entire sum raised will be used for the
scholarship fund. The number of scholar ships will

depend

upon the success of the endeavour,

 

 

Library Crowded As
Fall Exams Approach

Saturday morning as one strolled
nonchalantly into the Arts building a strange sight met the eyes.
Around the different notice boards,
hordes of tense-faced pseudo-intellectuals were hurriedly copying
down strange things

One by one they would make
their way towards the notice board
then one by one they crept to the
edge of the sorrowful throng.
Painful utterances could be heard
—‘eeek,—Psych and History in
the same day,”

Fear-crazed students dashed out
the door and lay on the cold damp
grass, in excruciating pain, their
bodies racked with sobs. Regretfully they thought of the wasted
hours. If only they knew what the
inside of the a text-book looked
like.

In the Common-room the loungers and bridge players, munching

on their chocolate-dips, were suddenly stirred to action, with the
battle-cry “They’re up”.

In the library the sobs were still
audible. Blood curdling screams
rose above the lamentations as
Economics or Math books were
opened for the first time.

What caused all this exicitement
and terror? ... Why the exam
lists are up!!!

 

 

 

}
present,

————® Five commissions were set up at

the conference to consider matters

of finance, activities — past and

new fields, and on the

policies. The recommendations of

these commissions are summarized

briefly below:

Commission I,

ISS on the campus.

1. The annual conference be held
during the last week in October.

2. Bilingual educational material

be distributed as soon as pos
sible,

More co-operation between stu
dent organizations like ISS,

NFCUS, SCM, ete.

4, That the local ISS committees

make better use of the United

Nations Association.

Local committees sent an an
nual report of fall activities by

Christmas.

6. Local committees investigate
scholarship plans set by Rotary
and other service clubs.

CO

on
:

Commission 2.
D.P. Students in Canada and from
overseas. International Seminar.
1. ISS (Canada) should. continue
with the present DP scheme—
bringing in European students.
Universities accepting students
can select the country from
which he or she comes.
Support of the exchange student scheme. An investigation
will be conducted this year by
the National office from all
possible sources.
(Continued on page four)

bo

 

Final Casting Of DGDA Production
Of “Othello” To Be Held Friday

The final cast for

Club’s feature production Othello |

will be released Friday. At the
three preliminary casting rehear
sals only fifteen students ventured |
The final rehearsal | various places outside the campus.

to turn out,
on Sunday was attended by twelve
ambitious souls. Mr. Pigot,
spite of his difficulties intends to

et noe ee

 

 

Since The Halifax Ladies’ Musical Club had booked most of the
Monday evenings in the Gym, the
Orchestra rehearsals were held at

This was not conducive to good at
in| tendance at practice, and was in
convenient to both Professor

have the final cast chosen by the | Harold Hamer and the orchestra

end of the week.

The Glee Club has put a great
deal of work on the preparation of
this play, and is disappointed by
the lack of cooperation displayed by
the student body. Nine prospective dramatic artists appeared at
the first rehearsal; four at the
second; two at the third. Such interest is more than disheartening.

members.
Permission was finally secured
from the University authorities

for the use of the Engineers Common Room every Monday evening.
The University has also given
Professor Hamer the authority to
purchase a piano for the use of the
orchestra. This piano will be kept
in the Engineering Common Room,
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  

aad a Gia Die ‘the Teeukens Council of Dalhousie

ty. cena d are not necessarily those of the

“Council. For subscriptions: write Business Manager,
a ree 4. : a

ERIS sieeve sen elon cates sree caes aie Advertising Manager

BPO MEAG TANS es ee eek tas nie es sees ewe nee renee Office Manager

lacDonald ......-.-60.05.. Be aiaceraiasye oo C.U.P. Editor
oraeie ental STAFF

Cato : chau a) eRe SANS: ar sak: 6. 3 ......News Editors

— ee ee eh eae Feature Editor

Banc UMW ola se sins ditis'e aie + Hes ’sie so es ods Sports Editors

‘S. “fh pga Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison

weeeeeeeeess+Banbara MecGeogh, Eliphal Nichols

Nadeh Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
yehies Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
a4 Macric Foisy, Jim Macaulay.
er BAM MIUEND fos ik as ous ack erties ie dB D8 Photgrapher
_ Beatrice MacDonald
Rain aate are eye SisuPthi Gtoians lace 6 A ah EL AE eS C2 RN Lucy Calp
Me oh ae Paine mera teh dn Gis Gloria Horne, Rona Yess
Barb McGeogh, Pat Ahern

TUESDAY, a 22, oat No. 15

_ REPORTERS UNDER THE TABLE

ie i bare undergraduates spent the summer acting as guinea pigs at
1 ite Gon ommon Cold Research ‘Unit. aot the past few weeks we have

i Driven mad by the constant repetition of interviews with Miss
: a Russell, these learned gentlemen have of one accord shouted at
eir ir minions, “find out what the youth of the country thinks.” Within

oes way to Oxford ‘and Cambeidos. Within hours the phrases roll
oe back “These seem very young old men. . . I told these young men and
ob); women about the middle classes. . . ,” etc., ete.
ee here is a tendency, on the part of all writers dealing with under. , fee aa to think of us as a group, with group views and group ini tate This may well be true of lighthouse keepers, deep sea divers,
or winkle sellers, but it is not true of undergraduates. There is no such
ng as “undergraduate opinion”—except on college food—but there
are a great many individual opinions held by individual undergraduates.
peri. There also appears to be an alarming idea abroad that all under- Some undergraduates un
aoe a ieeoat many of us are going to be failures. No one can say with
i “any certainty which of us are egoing to be leaders and which the
ca oagll
_ . The depressing fact is that undergraduates are for the most part
normal young men and women who happen to be at a university. We
K i 0 not have the discipline of earning our own living and our intelli‘ ae 2 “gence is probably a bit above the national average. However, the
_ majority of us probably have the same tastes and ideas as those of our
age, who are not at a university— Betty Grable is a bigger draw than
- Raimu, crime is of more interest than Plato, Cardiff rugby team will
- outdraw any professor by more than fifteen to one. Conversation at
the Dot. is no deeper than at the Hammersmith Palais.
There are a lot of eccentrics in Cambridge, but then there are a lot
at Tooting. There are many earnest young men and women here, but
so there are in Huddersfield.
Any editor who wants to know what the “youth” of the country
thinks might as well save money by asking the office boy. However,
for the time being you had better be careful of what you say, even in
your own room, There is probably a reporter lurking underneath the
~ table. " —The Cambridge Varsity

 

Letter to the Editor

November 17, 1949.| denotes not only a closed mind but
en a lack of faith in the strength of
our own system, not to mention a
contradiction of our own fundamental belief in the freedom of
speech so well defined by the late

Justice Holmes, who said that

Bois “The Editor,
am ‘The Dalhousie Gazette,
i Bi ee Halifax, N. S.

i. Dear Sir:

mh your editorial entifled “Pathetic
- Fallacy” (Gazette, November 15).
Mitre di > The issue is a serious one, and
i a cannot go unnoticed in these
troubled times.
va aa _ Our popular reactions to the
} _ Red Scare have become too much a
| e % thing of fear and too little a thing
| of objective reason. In Spain they
/ Can vave the red flag to annoy the
Bey bull, but the most common use of
it in certain North American
garters is to use it to sling the
aie ok Z pene not minimize the

for the thing you hate”.

We believe that the hope of the
world is a positive Christianity
that goes forth, and not a retreating Christianity. Dalhousie
S.C.M. voted to send delegates to
the World Federation of Democratic Youth not only to give the
other side a fair hearing, but also
that we should not fail to show the
Christian way of life.

It is encouraging to find an open
view existing in the Gazette towards the action of the S.C.M. in
trying to convert the “hardboiled, goose-stepping activists of
the festival to Christianity”. This
was to us the only intellectually
and morally honest path to follow. Christ came for Communists,

k intellivently evaluate
ical movement by look
te the physician or | too,
one must know all the! — Yours truly,
on “both sides in order to Douglas R, Jennings,
on a r cure. To, PORES cy fete ;
ema os iy
Ba asin 1 erty it Mais i Sie at *

 

“Freedom of thought is freedom |
Arts and Science age

The Arts and Science Socity finally settled the constitutional controversy. last Thursday at a meeting held in the basement of the
Arts Building. Jan Robertson,
President of the Society, presided.

The controversy was over changing the dues which had previously
been one dollar for membership in
the society till graduation. The
Constitution has now been changed
whereby members entering the
society now and henceforth must
pay one dollar per year to retain
their membership. The amendment
was ratified by vio Students and
the Society.

The Arts and Science dance to.be
held in the Gym on January 13
discussed. Joan McCurdy was
elected Chairman of the decoration
committee.

Georgia Wooton was then elected to the Social Events Committee
to replace Newcombe Bloomer.
Eric Richter is Chairman of this

committee.

Anita Simpson was elected manager of Dramatics and Bob McInnis was elevated to the position
of Debating Manager.

At the next meeting of the
Society only those holding mem
bership cards shall be eligible to

vote.
eae ete
N.F.C.US. Brief...

TORONTO — (CUP) A brief
dealing with federal aid to education to the Royal Commission on
the Arts, Letters and Sciences now
being prepared by the National
Federation of Canadian University
Students will to a large extent reflect the .opinions of “each and
every Canadian university student,” Richey Love, NFCUS national president, told a Toronto
committee meeting.

Love, a Dalhousie University
law student, was meeting the
Toronto Committee as part of his
tour of central Canadian campi
represented in NFCUS.

He described the work on the
brief being done by various
NFCUS committees to show the
extent to which it will be the result
of the work and opinions of all
Canadian university students.

Love said the brief will be divided into three parts. The first
would deal with scholarships. “The
main aim of our work is to make
it possible for students who cannot now attend university because
of financial reasons to do so in the
future,” he commented.

Research was being done on all
eampi to discover how many scholarships were available to a Canadian student in his own university, in Canadian universities other
than his own and in foreign universities.

Love said the second section of
the brief, being prepared by the
University of British Columbia
NFCUS committee, wil be on student opinion concerning national
institutions like the National Film
Board, the: National Gallery and
the National War Museum.

U.B.C.

The third part of the brief is to
deal with Canadian participation
in the United Nations Educational

Social and Cultural organization.
x * &

Attention Writers...

The Editors of the Northern Review have announced two awards
of one hundred dollars each, one
for poetry and one for fiction.
These prizes will be awarded on
the basis of work published in the
magazine during the coming year.
The prizes have been made available by the generous donations of
persons interested in encouraging
Canadian writing.

The Poetry Award will be made
to the author of the best poem or
group of poems accepted and published during the next six numbers of the Northern Review, beginning with issue for OctoberNovember 1949 and _ concluding
with the isue for August-September 1950. The fiction award will
be made to the author of the best
short story or selection from a
longer work of fiction published
A ii the same period.

(Continued on page 3)

 

y his b ti
ree De SS ne ide
oa j 4 ‘« 2 - errata =r ates ae, A 4
Ter AT TTS TATo? OA iw Et
he, ae E LE USI GAZLEL d
oe 5 es
; )
7 5
~ NURSERIES Limited.

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.


Two of Canada’s
Great Newspapers

The Halifax

Chronicle-Herald
AND

The Halifax
Mail-Star

ALL THE NEWS
ALL THE TIME
&

Circulation Over
100,000 Daily

CANADA‘S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

 
     
 
 
  
     
    
      
   

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT:
Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

79 Upper Water St.

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

  
    
     
       

DALHOUSIE. UNIVERSITY

‘Halifax, Nova Scotia '

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:
Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Science
Master of Arts
Master of Science
Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

         
 
       
        
    
    
     
        
         
       
       
   
   
     

Education Hospital Pharm

ac
Engineering Mining Geology x
Engineering Physics Music
Food Technology Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offerin
g Master’s Degr
in Many Departments ‘ —

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the de ree
of Li;
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree 6 M.D..,

C.M.
THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting dipl
Health Nursing, Teaching and Adaninlagratios n Public

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $60

ee applying. re mene from liek Sehacie ora
Ss 0 e Maritime Pro

ie Cee ee vinces, and awarded on the basis

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full

‘courses, residence facilities, and sate of vee

 

Lz

 
  
  

   

At Dalhousie,

   
 

To Dalho uste,
At Dalhousie,

age oO! Dalhousie,

 
 

f Hall aeike | a Seely frockesee |
Sang ‘Dalhousie! Dalhousie! Dalhousie!’’
ind looking girl I ever have met 
Dalhousie, Dalhousie.

some heartless young churl let you sit here and wait,
c re you enjoying a Saturday date
condemned to desk duty for coming back late

Dalhousie, Dalhousie.’

vs flocked ‘round her the whole afternoon

Dalhousie, Dalhousie.

’ nike most freshettes she remained plunged in gloom.

oe uste, ae ouste.

0 ne ey the cheerleaders lear alee te cheer,

  
    
 
   
   

ner Dalhousie, Dalhousie, Dalhcusia:

By Lithowsse. Pa. qe

Be alicos benzene and bonsine sound She same,

  

the gym, :

   
 

squash and choir clash again and again,
aay are sure that the college’s name
Is Dalhousie, Dre tene Dalhousie.

 

    

The first fermi is now almost
Paver and behold this is the first
| olumn of Med Notes. This is definitely unfortunate but we shall

try to make -the deadline for the
| ae _ Friday issue of the Gazette from
fe i now on.

one Robert Webster and Wendell
Waters have just returned from a

   
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
     
  

ee _ convention of the “Canadian AsD bariation of Medical Students and
oa ~ Internes. ” The convention was held
é of the medical school of the Unithm a versity of Ontario, London, Ont.

i
oh

It seems a good time was had
Hoy all (so typical of conventions).
a owever, many matters of interest
Wisp you, medical students and inP _ ternes, were discussed. Among the
__ reports presented were Aids to
_ Training Survey, Summer Employment for Medical Students, an In¥  strument Purchasing Project, Inte ne Remuneration Survey, and
Canadian Interne Placement.

_ 7 . Reports on the activities of stu| ¥ dents at each Medical School were

) ee

   
  
    
    
      
  
    
    
    
    
    
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

   

Ps iwe - geen on the Forrest Bulletin Board
% ‘(Med Socity). A Trophy donated
"by Chas. E. Frosst Co. Ltd. will be
W presented for the Best . Undergraduate Medical Journal, as well
as a prize of $25.00 established by
a .M.S.I. will be given for the
article by a Medical Student
appearing in a medical publication.
_ Social items at the conference

included the Toronto Varsity‘y Western football game, and the
ie) Mertymakers Session” by

oe ‘Western Medical Students.
Ye.

or

with a

. ROYAL

RSS

: fips betine orks

y the new Royal Portable has
these features: FINGER
KEYS, SPEED SPACER,

\GIC’”? MARGIN, RAPID
pa CHANGER, “TOUCH
ROL”. It’s the world’s first
aoe portable typewriter
y and built to last.

     
  
    
  
 
 

tingen St, at Cogswell
al : seman N. S.

| Tere Perma

“The Return of the Med Notes

By RALPH BROOKS

These were the only social items
developed. | :

The national executive for next
year and the conference next fall
wil be at the University of Montreal Medical School.

The noted singers of Dalhousie
Medical School have at last decided to put forth their talents in
the form of an “organized’ ’male
chorus. This is a new highlight of
Medical School activity. The
chorus is sponsored by the Medical
Society and is under the capable
direction of H. H. Hamer. Rehearsals are held in the auditorium of
the Victoria General (thank you,
Dr. Bethune) every Monday at
1:30-2:30. Everyone is welcome.

Next Friday’s Med Notes should
carry an account of the book store
audit and the problems that arise
out of it. Suffice to say that
Steve Copp’s resignation at the
Medical Society Meeting has kept
the executive working ever since,

NOTE: The evaluation and de
in. _ presented. These reports may be] valuation shall eventually be worth

an additional one hundred dollars
—shouldn’t have resigned, Steve.
And that is it for today!

Meet Your Friends at
THE

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

 

      
 
  
  
     
   
  
   
    
    

Compliments of

J se and TOM

Tea Room

The students recreation beaten

 

The Dalhousie with

gold crest on black onyx stone

rings

are the popular choice.

In stock at Birks.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

  
   
 
 

 

THE

GREEN LANTERN

   

“The sign of a good
meal”

Sw SE

 

407-409 Barrington St.

 

  

   
  

   
 

|| Box 32, Terminal A, Toronto 1.

I know that some of the Oa are|-"°

waiting with bated breath (and
that isn’t all on their breath) to
read this report. They would like
to know all the details on the
dance. Who wouldn’t?

All the girls looked lovely
in their gowns and the boys looked very smooth too—we can’t say
with authority how they looked
later in the evening. We do know,
though, that everyone had a wonderful time—not too warm, not too
erowded, good music—in short, a
perfect night. The committee did
a fine job and deserve a lot of
credit.

One noticeable development was
a new game, invented by a rowdy
crowd sitting at a table in the
corner of the dance floor. This
game is played with several balloons. The idea of the thing is to
keep all the balloons in the air at
once, while remaining seated. This
remaining seated was found to be
a necessary part of the game when
it was seen that the participants
could not control their enthusiasm,
and wound up on the floor or upset the table and _ everything
thereon. We don’t feel this will
develop into a Varsity sport, however, because of the expenses involved in the preliminary stages of
the game, referred to as “getting
primed”.

Enough of this nonserise—everyone enjoyed themselves and that’s
the important thing. If you
missed it, we told you so!

Anyone got an aspirin?

 

News...Views...
(Continued from Page Two)

Anyone living in Canada is elig
ible and the same writer may enter |>

both contests. The theme and
form of the material are not limited in any way. Fiction must not
exceed six thousand words but
there are no restrictions on the
length of the poems.

Previously published work will
not be considered.

Manuscripts should be submitted
before July 1950 and should be addressed to The Editor, Northern
Review, 2475 Van Horne Ave.,
Montreal, P.Q. and accompanied by
a stamped self addressed envelope.

 

Dont’ Take
A Gamble
We Give
Assurance

2
Solicit Our Ads
&

The Gazette

 

  

“The Students’ Drug
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and
Sundries, and for unexcelled
Snack Bar and oe Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

       
         
       
   
     

All Dalhousians Can
Kat aoe

E vaneeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.

Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m, - 12 Midnight

 

PART: TIME
EMPLOYMENT
Large commissions paid daily to
energetic men and women who
are anxious to increase present
income. Your work now a deciding factor for employment
next summer, No experience
necessary. Every home, factory and office a prospect.

and free outfit. Dept. 4H, P.O.

 

 

 
  
    
 
  
   
  
   
 

Write at once for full details

     

————— Fae ace — aS | er
7 : f

   
     
 
   
    
    
     
 
       
     

With THE = enzene

i

ss idis

:

 

i.
eZ

a "SBR

(Baws ust READABLE)

   

Baars
Anmvsen /

 

 
 

   

  

Cr or me
Poses nes)

“PICTORIAL PROTEST”

 

ig the Land of Jean Baptiol

When the Lee’s (the South Carolina Lee’s, that is) car
pulled into the Canadian Customs at Phillipsburg, you
couldn’t have told it.from a Snowmobile without a programme. It was equipped with skis, toboggan, warm woolies
for the Mrs, and kiddies, and a trunk full of trinkets to give
to the hostile Indians. In the dash was a French English dictionary. Mr. Lee was going to deal with “them Frenchmen”

in their own lingo.

Having cleared the Canadian
their journey in the Province of
Mr. Duplessis roads or better still,
Customs, the Lees embarked on
Quebec. It was not long before the
the holes in them, wrought considerable damage to the car. Removing the dictionary from the
dash, Mr. Lee proceeded to the next
garage.

Stopping ‘the ear, and getting
out (with Dictionary in hand) he
summoned the attendant.

“Gascon, Gascon”

The attendant came out of the
garage, cast a glance at the license plate and smilingly replied:

“Oui Monsieur.”

“Gascon, le... axel... il est
.. coupe” ... said Mr. Lee pointing to the offending part. The at
tendant looked blank for several
moments then smiled and retorted:
“Ah, oui Monsieur”.

Before Mr. Lee could protest, he
was made the proud possessor of
seven and three tenths gallons of
gas, which, incidentally, was all
that the attendant could force into
the tank.

“No, no, not gas. The... Le...
axel ... il est coupe, broken...
busted ... kaput,” he said, making
a motion to indicate breaking with

Come on Students

Ride In The Best

3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone ae Phone
3-7188 3-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

Te NOVA Shean

“DANCING

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES
9, Prince St. - Dial 3-850.

  
 
  
    
   
  
  
  

 

his hands and then pointing under
the ear.

A look of enlightenment spread
over the attendant’s face, and over
Mr. Lee’s too when he saw the former crawl under the ear. A few
minutes later the attendant re
appeared again, threw a “une
momente Monsieur” at Mr. Lee,
and vanished into the station. Mr..

Lee’s peace of mind was _ short
lived, however, for the attendant
strolled out of the garage carrying
four quarts of oil,

Mr. Lee exploded in righteous
wrath.
“Look you stupid **
want gas or oil; the spark plugs
are o.k.; I’m not on the market
for any accessories. I merely have
a broken axle which I want you to
fix, and further more...

“Then why the heck didn’t you
Say so in the first place? Come
back in two hours and I’ll see if
the welder can fix the axel—and
that’s $8.76 you owe me for gas
and oil.

Mr. Lee replaced the dictionary
in the dash, wishing that he had
remembered $8.76 worth of the
French that he had learned way
back when he was in P.S. 24,

 

, I don’t

OXFORD

Mon. - Tues. - Wed.

“SORROWFUL JONES”
and
“HATTER’S CASTLE”

Thurs, * Fri, a Sat.

“THE STRATTON STORY”
e and
“BIG JACK”

CASINO

Starting Wednesday

 

“It’s a Great
Feeling”

Starring

Doris DAY
Jack CARSON 
AA
  
 

 

 

 

PROS “AND CONS

By JOE LEVISON

The Dalhousie Tigers basketball club met a good team at the
Studley gym last Saturday night. In fact 22 points better. That was
the margin by which Saint John Atlantics took the Duke from Dal—
64-42. As far as basketball fans in the city were concerned almost
everyone we heard from said it was the best basketball played in the
gym for a long time. And so it was.

ee

The Atlantics had an obvious edge. A good all round team
their primary function was to move the ball into the keyhole
area where the artilley-meaning Joe Milos—could finish off the
the plays. In the first half Red Chaisson, another of the “A’s
63” boys didn’t bother scoring many points. He was a key man
in the Saint John combination setting up many plays, but in the
second canto he proved himself as efficient as Milos in scoring
baskets via the hook shot route.

Me * te *

Milos with 28 points was the high man for the night. He made 12
out of 14 hooks and in guarding covered his man like a pie crust. The
Tigers had plenty of trouble with the St. John screening which was
something to watch. The close checking as well made a difference in
Dal’s play.
efficient checks.

On their part the Bengals have looked better in foul
shooting, and in comparison with Saint John’s zippy passing and
ball handling when moving the zone we were slow. But Vitlone’s
boys gave a good account of themselves. Lacking a lot of their
opponents height the work on the backboards was still good, the
boys played hard and came up with some smooth plays, the
team as a whole looked very fast. However, the game showed
that Dal has suffered from lack of good competition.

” % % k

We hear that the basketball team cleared $100.00—certainly suit- |
able compensation for the efficient and rapid way in which the squad |
took the matter of arrangements into their own hands. What better |
way would there be to use that century note than as a nest egg for’!

guarantees to bring in other top teams, and thereby keep the squad in |

top trim? In closing this particular chapter it must be said that the
student support was terrific: It must have been very gratifying for
the boys who worked so hard, to see a full house for
endeavour.

* & * *

Football of the varsity variety is over at Dal for the year.
Though they played one of their best games this season the
Senior Tigers were down 3-0 by Glace Bay Legionnaires at
Antigonish Saturday. Coach George Gray tells us that the boys
played marvellous football but couldn’t find the range. Well,
it must be said that the rugger squads did a lot better than
many wiseacres thought they’d do with their splitting up into
two teams. It is greatly to the credit of the boys that they
continued to work hard, despite some unnecessary criticism from
this corner is not absolved, and came up with two teams which
are credits to the university.

tt * * *

Another happy note has been injected onto the scene from the
rugger squad’s final endeavour. The campus was happy to hear of
the co-operation which was given the team by members of the faculty
and alumni who provided transportation to Antigonish by car. President Kerr, G. Ray Smith, president of the alumni association, Dr. Bell,
Dr. Grant and Prof. Cooke all donated their time ‘and autos to the
cause. Support is gained by leadership and there is not better leadership than that by exeample. After Saturday, Ae ies the losses our
support is high. het S wear ght garters, Shall we

 

Cape Seihiieers Take Maritime Crown
From Bengals In Thrilling Title Game

After racking up a five-game winning streak, during which their
goal-line was uncrossed, the Dal English Rugby squad, Nova Scotia
Mainland Senior Champions, lost the Maritime title to the Glace Bay
Legionaires by a 3-0 score. The Tigers put up their best display of
the season in bowing out to the Cape Bretoners, whom they had
beaten in Glace Bay the previous week.

Three minutes’ after the game @—————————
started, a Dal kick, caught by the |. S. S. Aids-wind, was blown back over the (Continued from page one)
goal-line, and Ferguson of Glace|3 he use of frozen funds in
Bay fell on the ball for what!  furope for sustaining Canadian
proved to be the winning score. students by investigation.
The Tigers and some of the specs)4. The summer seminar be held in
tators protested that the ball had France. Provincial governments
rolled over the dead-ball line be- be approached to pay transpor
 

fore being touched down, but the tation costs of delegates ‘to
try was allowed. . Europe,
The Bengals, led by Morrison | Commission 3.

ISS relief
Relief will only be carried out
where International ISS ean

and Farquhar, raced back and/1,
reached the Glace Bay l-yard line
on several occasions but “Rugged”
McInnis, “Toots” MacIntosh, and
big Johnny Devison rose to the} 2.
heights as they stopped the rushes
of Cruikshank and Grant.

The second half was a repetition
of the first, as the Legionaires
were hemmed in their own 25-yard
area for most of the play. Alec

vise distribution.

No funds can be allocated to
D.P.’s already in Canada. Our
obligation is to the people
whom we have bought over,

3. Assistance be given to students

who have suffered from devaluation.

Farquhar and Freddy  Laphen . oe a mae : patter stu-_
came close to paydirt, but couldn’t ica: ty relations in all |
quite put the ball across, and the Commission 4. ISS Internationally.
=. gene ——S xe veport of this committee

* ? discussed in detail in a

/

f

Se ee CU

It was the first time this year that the Cats have met |

their first |

 

 

 

 

 

estimate the need, and super- | 3.

 

| The little ref who wasn’t there.

| day night.

Law Edges A&S|

‘over.

Boxing Notice

There will be a meeting of all
students interested in boxing in
the Gymnasium on Wednesday,
Novy. 23, at 7 p.m. Manager
Hank Presutti is anxious to get
the training schedule started as
soon as possible, and expects a
large turnout.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Tigers Drop Maritime Senior Rugby Finals ,t0 Glace Bay 3-0

SAINT JOHN CAGERS TOPPLE. CATS

* tee [DAL SQUAD IMPRESSIVE
AGAINST SENIOR TEAM

Saturday evening before a near capacity crowd of over 1,000 the
Dalhousie Tigers were defeated by the Saint John Atlantics 64 to 42.
The Saint John team, Maritime Senior champs, encountered stiff opposition from the fighting Tigers. The Vita-Men were outclassed, and
gave a decided height advantage to the port city club, but at no time
carne the game were they outplayed or outhustled.

 

In Close Game

On a muddy,
Field last Thursday the Law
ger team “defeated” Arts
Seience 3-0. MacDonald of Law
scored the only try of the game on
a disputed play. The Lawyers
kicked to the goal line. Doig of
the Undergrads waited for the
ball. As the mud cleared from
around the play, MacDonald was
A. and S. claimed that Doig
had not touched the ball and therefore MacDonald was offside. The
rest of the game was played under |
protest and the decision now rests
with the D.A.A.C.

The lawyers came into the game
with a terrific weight advantage.
Only the muddy field kept Henderson of the Studleymen from
breaking away. The Law scrum
kept out-heeling the lighter Arts
and Science’eers but the Forrestmen could not advance the ball.

slippery King

 

later edition of the Gazette.

Commission 5

The finantes of ISS (Canada)

1. Re the financial campaign as

many firms as possible be can
vassed.

That a prominent citizen be ap
proached for the position of

honorary treasurer as well as to
solicit funds from large firms.

The administrative costs of the

organization this year would be

approximately .10 per student,
preparing for a degree.

4. The emergency fund for Canadian students be liquidated and
allocated to the administrative
committee to defray losses of
$3300.00 incurred at the International Seminar.

In connection with this report
copies of the financial report of
ISS Canada nationally and locally
will be mimeographed and placed

to

on the campus.

 

Ed Sonta of the Saint John Atlantics
| gets away with a spot of holding, but Scott Morrison chalks up two
points for the Tigers in the exhibition tilt played at the Gym on SaturJoe Milos, big man for the visitors, with 28 points to his
| eredit, is keeping check on “Red” Findlay of the Bengals.

In Exciting Win

Rug; |

and |
| team

|the season in an exhibition game

 

__—_____—__—_—_——® The 22-point margin is no indication of the complexion of the
game. Throughout, the collegians
clung to the Senior team and only
in the dying minutes of the second
half did they suceumb.

As the Bengals took the floor
they obviously were jittery. Bernie
Peters of the Atlantics flipped in
a set shot from half court to put
his team in the lead. Jim Mahon
connected with a foul shot. MacKay picked up another point to

even the score. Peters and Joe
Milos, lanky six-foot center, sank
two shots to put the N. B. team

into a 6-2 lead. The Tigers lost
their nervousness as they quickly
discovered that they could jump
as high, run as fast, and shoot as
well as the near “professional” St.
Johnnies. The Cats kept pressing
and only the hook shots of Milos
kept them from taking the lead in
the first half. At the halfway
mark the visitors lead 28-19.

The second stanza opened well
for the Dalhousians as MacDonald,
Mahon, Connelly and MacKay
matched the Atlantics point for
point. At the 15-minute mark the
Tigers pulled to within 8 points of
tying but they could not further
close the gap. The final score
found the Tigers on the short end
of a 64-42 score.

There were no

 

individual stars
for the Bengals. The shooting of
Mahon, MacDonald, Connelly and
Henderson was excellent. Rebounding and guarding by MacKay,
Tanner and Henderson was superb.
The ball handling of Robertson,
Connelly and Morrison was likewise excellent. The team worked
like a well oiled machine, The Dal
hoopsters put on a display which
won the admiration of all the onlookers as well as the respect of
the visiting cage squad.

“I am very much pleased with
the game my boys played,” said
Coach Vitalone after the game,
with Senior A competition and
they gained a lot of invaluable experience.”

Lineups: Dalhousie: MacDonald
12, Henderson 7, Mahon 7, Connelly 6, MacKay 4, Morrison 3,

(Staff- Photo by Soberman)

Q E.H.S. Cagers

The Dalhousie Junior Basketball
suffered its first defeat of

with the highly rated Q.E.H.
Juniors. The Elizabehhan aggregation eked out a 29-27 victory
over the Dal team, and the game
was as close as the score suggests.

Walker of Q.E.H. scored the Smith 3, Robertson, Findlay, Tanfirst ner, Shaw.
first basket of the contest soon Sadat ‘Felons titan. “sk
after the opening whistle. Dal m: Milos 28, B. Peters

12, Puchek 11, Chaisson 9, Mack 3
Sonta 1, A. Bakes Runeena as.

came roaring back with Dave McCurdy whipping in three quick
baskets. The play was fairly close
during this half although Q.E.H.
with 6ft. 7 in. Bobby Haughan
were successful in controlling both
backboards. The score at half
time was 17-14 for Queen Elizabeth.

It was evident to the capacity
crowd that the Dal team was very
nervous, playing their first game
of the season, nevertheless in the
third quarter the Bengals came to

 

 

MISS EVANS GETS
TOP HOOP RATING

Over the weekend local basketball circles welcomed the newly
formed “Maritime Board of Women
officials”. This board will control
Maritime girls’ hoop officiating.

Miss Betty Evans of Dal’s Physical Education Department was
made co-chairman of the Basket
<__ tt
oO meen eeepc i etnies igen

life and at one time were leading eating Spepmates, The 20
25-24. Walker again paced the Per PAE, Pied eee. WERE

given rating according to their
praetical and written ability. Of
this 20, only 3 were given top
and won the game by two points. # Fating, among: these’ three
Date. wick eile sigh santeig was Miss Evans. Four were placed
in the “B” group; included here

racking up a total of ten points. |was Dal _stndent / Jean MacLeod.
é ac Leo

high school team during this quarter and as the final buzzer went
Q.E.H. were ahead by one basket

 

    

: - ; a : - - Se

Oxford Theaue:

Due to unforseen cireumstances beyond our control

we will not be able to show “Paisan” as previously
advertised.
|

 

 

?

 
