   
 
 

 

 
  

J

  
 
  

  

* *

*

 

 

 

 

ee : x *
Pa ae ‘1 ° .
, Glee Club to Offer Two-Act Play in Homecoming
ay ‘pon’'rT Ah > . THE DON’T
 p): PORGET | ae FORGET
in ale val THE BIG
a END | | END
“Chee ea _ America’s Oldest College Paper : |
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1949 No, 11
*

 

 
 
 
 
    

MNI TO RETURN TO CAMPUS AS
L LAUNCHES FIRST HOMECOMING

———— - ©. a ae ee ae

First Homecoming Week to be Observed
As Students’ Council Launches Annual
| Celebrations in Honor of Former Students

ents enaiy

  

The Alumni Homecoming is making its premiere this

Notice ‘ |Friday as former Dal Students from all parts of Eastern

Canada and New England will be making the trek to Halifax

The Halifax Ladies Musie Club | - ae Pin ee ye rte erie ie
will present a ballet concert in the | C4Y Begs Feit See ane JaSt through Saturday,

a * Se he SS ae

 

 
 
  
  
    
   
 
 

 

CONCERT HELD IN DAL GYM—Last evening Murray Adaskin and
his wife, Frances James, presented a concert under the auspices of the
Dalhousie Council of Students. Frances James is a well-known Canadian soprano while Murray Adaskin is a distinguished violinist and
composer. Photo by Marcel Ray

 

“Wurzel Flummery’ to be Presented
As Club Homecoming Offering

The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society, as its contribution to

Plaque to be Unveiled the activities of | Homecoming
Week, will present a two-act play
In Honor of War Dead |iy the noted Enclish ume

by the noted English humorist, A.
, __|A. Milne. “Wurzel Flummery”
‘i A bronze plaque commemorating will be performed in the Dal Gym
basx the memory of those students of! o, the evening of Saturday, Nov.
7 the Dalhousie Medical faculty who} 12,
gave their lives in World War II} The play will be directed by H.
will be unveiled Thursday noon,| Leslie Pigot. George Tracey will
November 10 at Forrest, site of the| Play the role of Anthony Clifton,
t : a solicitor; James Nesbitt will act
Medical School. se as Lancelot, his clerk; and Anne
Colonel K.. C. Laurie, chairman | Thexton will take the part of Viola
of the Dalhousie Board of Gover-|Cranshaw, the daughter of Mrs.
nors, will preside over the cere-| Cranshaw.
mony, and the unveiling will be| Robert Cranshaw, M.-P., will be
performed by Major-General Luton.|ucted by Harold Stevens; Richard
» Meriton, M.P., by Robin McNeil;

: Friends and relatives of the| ys Cranshaw by Natasha Coffin;
servicemen honored will be present, | ..4 the maid, by Margo McLaren.

along with the Board of Governors,| pis will be the first dramatic
city officials and governor of the presentation of the Glee Club this
Brovnce, year, which has scheduled a heavy
program of plays.and musical con| f certs,
Se No ti Along with the play on Saturday
| orice

night, the Glee Club will present

; choral selections, solo voice selec
,, At the request of the Council of | tions, and instrumental pieces. The

Students classes will not be held on| Chorus and orchestra will be under

the morning of Saturday, Novem-|the direction of Professor Harold
er Hamer, F.R.C.O.

 

 

- ——

BS

a bey

 

: : 2.;,| Which is a holiday for students and end on Sunday with ‘
Dal Gym Mon., Noy. 14th at 8:15 | reception at Shirreff Hall a t
P.M. This will feature Irene Apine i eer

and Jury Goshalk in a recital of
Student season tickets
Single admittance to |

solo Ballet.
are a dollar.
the concert is one dollar.

Morning—
Afternoon—

Evening—

Morning—

  

Afternoon— 
Kvening—

Afternoon—

Dance in Gymnasium.
SATURDAY

Program for

Homecoming Weekend

Registration and payment of $2.00 fee.

Football—Dal vs. Wanderers.

Meeting of Professors and Alumni.
Ground Hoeckey—Dal vs. Edgehill.

Glee Club Show, One-Act Play, Musical Sketch.
SUNDAY

Chapel Service in Gymnasium

Reception at Shirreff Hall for Alumni,
Faculty and Students’ Council.

This is an innovation at Dal.
be largely

Bernal Sawyer, Chairman;

Its guaranteed success will

due to the efforts of the committee consisting of
Pete Doig;

Gordie Coles; Roy

Campbell; Art Moreira: Frannie Doane, DGAC: John Pauley,

'DGDS$; Bob Wilson, DAAC,
sakes ir

 
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
 

 
 

  

 

Three Nanded Attend , bi

Law Ball

Both Social and Financial Success

In an atmosphere of traditional
pomp the annual Law Ball reached
a new high in success last Friday
evening as the forty-nine edition of
this affair gloriously rewarded its
organizers.

The three-man committee consisting of Al Trites, Bill Pearson
and Stu Wallace announced they
did more than break even financially; they were able to invest a
bit in the Treasury of Law Society.
There were over three hundred people in attendance.

The Chaperones and Patrons
were entertained by the commit
 

Co-Vette Notice

The Dalhousie Co-Vettes Society
will hold a meeting at Mulgrave
Park commencing “°3:45 SHARP,
Thursday, Nove) ' »* 10th.

tee. In the Maritime Room adjoining the Ball Room refreshments were served. It was regretted that Sir Joseph Chisholm
one of the Patrons was unable to

attend.

The Ball was underway by ninethirty when the guests started to
arrive. “There was a sound of
revelry ...” till about one-thirty
when the revellers emerged from
the Nova Scotian Hotel and the
party spread to various parts of
Halifax.

The Ball, which was held in the
main ballroom of the Nova Scotian
Hotel, was conducted in the majestic tradition that accompanies the
Professional Schools. Many Halifax Law Firms were represented.
Much credit is due to the three
organizers who combined their efforts to make the Ball a success.

   
 
    
   
 
    
 
 

   
     
 
   
   
   

The weekend commences on Friday morning when the visitors will
register. They are all to be given
a ticket which will admit them to
all aetivities which will take place
over the three-day festival.

There will be a football game
between Dal and Wanderers on
Friday afternoon. A large turnout
is expected for the game which is
to be Dal’s last for the season. In
the evening the Committee are
sponsoring a dance in the Gymnasium.

The returning grads will meet
the faculty members informally
on Saturday morning. In the afternoon the DGAC are featuring a
ground hockey game in which the
Dal girls will battle it out with
the squawd: from Edgehill. And
the committee hope to arrange a
game between the Old Boys and
the English Football team.

Saturday evening the Glee Club
are producing a two-act play by
A, A. Milne, “Wurzel Flummery”.
If the Glee Club lives up to its reputation this will be an excellent
piece of entertainment.

Contrary to a rumour around the
Campus, Saturday will be a holiday for all students.

Invitations have been sent out to
all former students in the Maritimes, and as far as Montreal and
Maine. It is expected that a large
number of former students will
take advantage of the chance to
renew old friendships.

Tickets for the dance on Friday
night will be available to the Students at the door on presentation
of Students Council Card fpr one
dollar. Students will be admitted
to the Glee Club production on presentation of Council Card Only.

DALHOUSIE CHAPEL

Chapel Services sponsored by the
students and professors of the University are held from Monday to
Friday inclusive, at 8:40 a.m. in
the King’s College Chapel. There
is ample time to reach first classes
following these brief devotions.

 
 
   
 
 
  
    

 
  

bi a a aetieke 5 the Se seis? Council of Dalhousie
sity. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
* Council. For ae write Business Manager,

LL OFFICE: .
f A 1 PERT —

EL O st hall
: ) HARRIS , Re baa MES AM se eke Advertising Manager
Be HIGGINS, FCoE ibs % vs De a fatale 1S ON Office Manager

=, bie 0) Seo we 6.8) tee 6 oe -e, 6' 4° 8 0:6 'e a2 @ @ @ Po a's

 
 

 
 

  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

Ai EDITORIAL STAFF
AF ; Soe ; mms wd inh Ee Giatedalsvureha sa aap 600+ New Editors
ncn t ee Mae OL CRME Wc die sm 0.5018 Features Editors
1B WOLMAN } eee ig sie ey 5 a a an's RParre tae biai ee o's) Sports Editors
rts Reporters....... ..Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
SMMERG Er ccs lat cules vmla-alh Barbara MecGeough, Eliphal Nichols
ters— Patsy Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,

Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

Beatrice MacDonald
Lucy Calp

mm 1e.6. 6 210. @ G86 6. £2 6. ¢ pm a's 2 0.618 6 6.0 & 4 @

    
 
  
     
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
  

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1949

THE GREAT SCHISM

Bee The growth and development of the spirit of Dalhousie
ae been stunted and warped by the oppressive shadow of
Er eernee and obsolete university ideals. There is no

Prise The duty of a University is not merely to implant words
eilet wisdom and knowledge in the minds of students. It extends
fat yp - beyond the realm of technical education and should embrace
I pe and encourage the Spirit of a university, not destroy it
Bae ‘through lack of interest.
Bo ; There is no spirit at eitousic. Alumni have no interest

MS saa in the university once they have passed through the portals
ms _ of undergraduate and graduate study. The faculty have not
$: encouraged extra-curricular sport or activities. True, they
ne | fi have tolerated student endeavours in wide and varied fields,
but it has been a destructive tolerance because it hinders
rather than abets.

It is time that the University and the student body were

- united by a common bond of University spirit. A sheepskin
Hs ee with Latin is not sufficient to breed fond and pleas- ant memories of college days. It is time that the old conser_ vative traditions of study were set aside and the destructive
- division of Administration and students corrected by a frank
and common discussion of this problem.

 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
     
  
    
     

    

eo:

HOPE SPRINGS ETERNAL

ne _ This week a radical departure is taking place in
" . the hitherto cautious (and in effectual) student Alum-_nirelations setup at Dal, and in connection with it the
- Students’ Council is sticking its corporate neck out
to the extent of seven or eight hundred dollars at a
time when money is getting short.

6 ne After most of the expense and effort, and the
slow trial and error process which is producing it,
_ the first Alumni Home-coming is a reality. All that
a is needed for its success is the turnout by Alumni
and students.

It is being held as much for the students as for
the Alumni, and students are urged not only to at} _ tend themselves but to feel free to bring their parih a ents if the latter would like to take a close-range

look at the University. But with or without par- ents, the students should come anyway.

ae
al ei sy

re The process is anything but painful. Elsewhere
ee

en an this issue there appears a program of the events,
er which are for the most part of the sort that most
a ieee students would attend anyway. This institution,
: _ Which would become a permanent, annual one, can
; Fe do more to interest those who have left the Univerpee pity in what the University is doing now than anyke aa thing else, and only the turnout is required to make
Ba: | ita success,

     
 
   
  

 
   
   
  
      
  
   

Sunday, Nov. 6 (Lord’s Day)—
Not to church this day, the weather being most unseasonal and
damp. Did resolve not to waste the
whole of this day with my wife, as
she did wish, and to the home of
one T. Ignorance Moreso, instead,
which is on Souse Street of this
city. We did pass the afternoon by
hearing of great events being
planned by the scholars of Dullhousie, ‘They do intend to bring
all the old scholars to a great
three-day carouse, and have already commenced the depravement
of these fine old men by introducing them to that harbarous custom
from the colonies known as smoking.

Tiring of the company of Ignor- |’

ance, who is a fine fellow but
wishes too often for the good old
days, I did leave his abode late in
the afternoon. Thinking to take
the air’ before returning to my
wife, I was accosted by one Loose
Blockhead, whom I did perceive to
be riding in a great carriage. I
did gladly accept his invitation to
ride with him, but I shall ever wish
I did not The knave attempted to
drive the thing himself on the way,
and did only achieve colliding with
another coach. Only by the Grace
of God did we escape death. I will
not go riding with him again, I
think!

Much in need of refreshment,
home quickly, A full half-hour before I did have my refreshment,
my wife being near the cabinet,
and having hid the key: as is her
wont on Sundays. But I did get
my sack while she ate, and then
early to bed, being much shaken
still.

Monday, Nov. 7—Feeling much
better, up early and to the college
on the hill, where a scholar did tell
me of the recent misfortune of one
of the inmates of Marmalade
Hovel. -A certain Morgue Metaltown did receive the bite of an
aleovebug, which came upon a
eraft from the Indies, whose Captain is one Red Genuflect (not to

|be eonfused with Exclamation of

the same name). Now Miss Metaltown is confined to her room and
will see no one.

Then to the inn on Studlee owned by the Colony Carters, as they
call themselves, and much overjoyed to at last see with my own
eyes the beverage known as fivecentcoffee, from the Indies. _I did
not credit it, but being convinced,
I am resolved to tell the Sour brothers of the beverage, that they
might obtain it, also.

Over my fivecentcoffee, [I did
fall into conversation with - one
Olhairbrush Panty, who did tell me
he had just seen my wife with another man. MHurriedly home, to
enjoy the unnatural peace of my
abode and early to bed before she
did return with her sharp tongue.

Tuesday, Nov. 8—To the offices
of the Spectator (early edition)
for conversation with Lightert. He
did speak to me of one And Harrying, one of the King’s courtiers,
telling me of her nefarious practices, It seems she does hold
court of her own, charging fivepence for admission, that she
might buy clothing for her appearances at court. I am most
surprised that the King should not
provide for his courtiers better.

In the evening, I did resolve to
go carousing with the legal
scholars of Dullhousie, who did hold
their annual ball. Leaving my wife
at home, and carrying my refreshment, I did proceed to the ball in
company with one Stewed Fenceace, and during the course of the
ball did observe h live up to his
name in most busin. like fashion.

(Continued o > 3)

 

      
  
   

 

 

 

- Compliments of
JOE and TOM

Diana Sweets
Tea Room

The students recreation centre

 

Come on Students
Ride In The Best

3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone & Phone
3-7188 3-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

  

Corsages

NUR/ERIES: Limited -..

ui

CANADA’S FINEST
CIGARETTE

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

 

Two of Canada’s
Great Newspapers

Registered _
Jeweller A. G. S.

A simple phrase but your
protection when you need
a jeweller.

The Halifax

Chronicle-Herald
AND

The Halifax
Mail-Star

ALL THE NEWS
ALL THE TIME

Circulation Over
{00,000 Daily

Every Registered Jeweller
is examined yearly to test
his knowledge and must
be approved for ethical
standards.

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited
Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.
Halifax, N. S.

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

DARTMOUTH, N. S.
79 Upper Water St.

HALIFAX, N. §.

  

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering
F

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

    
   
        

 

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:
Bachelor of Nursing Science
Bachelor of Science
Master of Arts
Master of Science
Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

Education Hospital Pharmacy
Engineering Mining Geology
Engineering Physics Music

Food Technology Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry
The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

C.M.
THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Public
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 available to
students applying for admission from High Schools or Junior
Colleges of the Maritime Provinces, and awarded on the basis
of educational attainments,

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full information as to fees,
courses, residence facilities, and dates of registration,

 

 

 
  
  

Bo with an ‘ilea of the American universities to keep the alumni in

oe uch oe their alma mater and make their school spirit into a
A: ae elong attachment. This, of course, makes pecuniary extraction
‘tian more, painless. |

Kis
Ni) abn, $ im ‘ ‘ eRe a

 

 
   
   
   
   
 
  

+ Ue, ee

_ This remark is not meant to be cynical. In this day fastly becomng devoid of loyalties, it seems to be the rule that as soon as a
‘ student. ‘eollect enough training to go out into the world, professional
< and: otherwise, and begin collecting banknotes. the alma mater is for7 gotten. No university can be self-subsisting and in order for we
Pe _ Students of today to enjoy up-to-date facilities someone has to kick in.
eee

* %

ix

The load has usually been left to those fortunate individuals
+ oa ‘amass so many mint marks, they hand it to the different
universities just so they can have somebody count it. With the
increasing policy of “soak the rich” this happy breed is becoming
} eae and less—and with it, also, the contributions. The day is
eee when either each institution of learning will become a new
_ government charge or the body of gJumns will have to put their
_ shoulder behind the wheel.

ae ’ , i
Pe, High ognk by a ‘es * % > 8) | *

nd why Shouida' they, and why shouldn’t we? Certainly, there
will, always be those self-centered, spiritually defunct personages that
xen consider that they paid their fees and loyalty and chivalry is
something for those silly fellows who cavorted in cans sometime during
_ the twelfth century.. Dalhousie boasts grads in the top brackets of
every branch of Canadian life, and perhaps, before, they have never
been approached with the right line. This could be it.

*

al
ait}

x * ®t

So each and everyone of the student body can do his bit this .
weekend to welcome those who have gone before us, to make them
| feel at home. Show them a stay that will make them even more
proud of Dalhousie. We especially hope that the football team
will come up with a good effort. Art Moreira and the Students’
Council have put tremendous effort in preparations for this event .
and it promises to be a top weekend. So everyone on the ball!

’ 2 xR ok RE

_ Now we have seen everything—but this is too much! The great
penance of the twentieth century is the motion picture industry. First
si it was lousy pictures, then, it was double bills, and more lousy pictures,
then, horse operas, and still more lousy pictures, then psychiatric films,
b and even more lousy pictures, then, musicals full of big names, and
yet more lousy pictures. Now the Hollywood hoods have outdone
themselves, You’ll never guess—advertising. At both the Casino and
Oxford theatres the operators have had the nerve to perpetrate this
¢erime on the paying public. Here’s how they do it. First some bim
in a bathing suit, that wouldn’t be a moth’s meal, appears and you
have grabbed your seat in honest anticipation, when bang, some jerk
— with slick hair and a thin moustache asks you what your ravye number
. is, B-o-i-n-n-g!

»

 

—_—--— ——
I was much amazed to perceive
one Knave Flusher, for I had
thought him abroad. And with this
Knave were many of the inmates
|of Marmalade Hovel, pleading with
‘him to take them home, but he refused, and did tell Miss Cutit of
Soon did tire of the legal ball,| the Hovel that they would not be
and to the home of the great| home till the morning. And to bed
 Pigma Sty, from the Indies. There | much later.

Sam Peeps-aa | am told that is the best tradition of legal scholars, who are
business-like even with their plea~ sure. 
—

Ew

2 —

 

> A Great Convenience
For Students...

 

Sh in;
al opp o
Service
. - EATON’S Shopping Service is ready to help you with
} —-your shopping! . . . Call at the Store, phone, or write
' sa ae for expert help with your shopping ... When you

buy x EATON’S, remember the EATON Guarantee:

 

Sialic

~ HALIPAX :. « )
   
   

CANADA

 

 

a + nt oS

lA tain sud

(The following is part of a letter
which was printed in the ‘Bouvigne
Star’ the daily paper put out by
the Seminar Members at the ISS
Seminar in Breda this past summer. This opinion, as the preceding one, is that of one student, and
his own interpretation of German
attitudes and German problems).

The Germans are certainly not
German “types” as such. Each
German is to a large extent individualistic. The combined facts of
the “Iron Curtain” splitting Germany in twain, and an inherent
fear of Communism seems to have
produced a certain uniformity of
thinking.

Hoplessness has conceived apathy
and lack of responsibility which in
turn led to a eriticism of the
Western powers as being in a large
measure responsible for Germany’s
present plight.

Perhaps the German’s general
line of thought runs something like
this: We fought a war and lost.
Hitler was, and stood for, something evil; we admit atrocities, but
we, too, have suffered, for evidence
of which, please witness our devastated cities and the numbers of
our dead, How far does a revenge
of resent go? It does not seem
to us that vindictiveness and democracy do not make good _ bedfellows. We realize that we must
be occupied both for your protection and ours, Considering, however, our overcrowded country, the
fact that some. factories ;competing
with Britain are being dismantled,
that one million Germans are still
prisoners in Russia, and that actual authority still rests with
“the powers” how can we be democratic?

We regard the refugees as potential Communists if they are not
fed, and it is up to the Western
Powers to ease these conditions if
they want the “democratic Exepriment” in Germany to be a success.
That is, you must trust us for your
sake, as well as ours.

Now, a great deal of this is sensible, but it contains a whining
note. “You must do for us”,
which seems to be a very unhealthy
state of mind with which to build
up a free society.

It is extremely difficult,
the German considers the

when
imme
diate situation, of prime importance, to impress upon him that
democracy is a_ long, tedious
method; that it involves much

patience and heartbreak, plus the
willingness of a portion of the
society to be more concerned with
the idea of a free, great Germany,
rather than just a great Germany;
and to have that part of society
willing to presevere through all in
order that Germans as a whole
may be familiar with that gem of
free society “Compromise”.

(This is the second of a series of
three articles to appear on “The
German Discussion” of one of the

vital issues of the Seminar).

 
     
     

Meet Your Friends at
THE

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

Capitol Music Co.

Phone 3-6425
21 Blowers Street

Complete Line of
RADIOS, RECORDING APPLIANCES, MUSICAL _INSTRUMENTS, JEWELLERY

Easy Terms

“The Students’ Drug
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and
Sundries, and for wunexcelled

| Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

edo

“T know the night is near at hand,
The autumn sheaves are dewless,
dry;
The mists lie low on hill and
bay,
But I have had the day.”
—George MacDonald

And thus it goes, time marches
on and since time and tide wait for
no man, it is time to be about and
doing. A few hardy souls are perennially hard at work in the Library. None. of the delicate aroma
of burning leaves can _ possibly
penetrate their nasal passages.
We of the elite, who have not opened a book, have skipped half a

dozen lectures and whiled away
our ambition either on ten cent

eaffein or Milton,
happiness in scuffing through the
leaves, briskly trotting to a hockey
practice or to watch the ruggah or
footah boys kick up the green.

Man is not to be outdone in this
wild galaxy of colour .. . light
blue vests and purple shirts merely
complement the brilliant reds of
the opposite sex, evident not only
in sparkling lipstick and sweaters
but in coats and shoes. “In Spring

a young man’s fancy .. .”, in the
Autumn there seems to be no

more restraint in man’s emotions
than there is at any other time of
the year. Romances are budding
all over the campus ... one may
still hear the refrain of grade
school days ... ‘“‘May I carry home
your books?” and all the other delights that go with adolescent fun.
Now is the Autumn of our childhood, and we are on the threshold
of adulthood. Some think that
they have already gone quite far
into it, but they will face reality
when bogged down in the Spring
thaws before a carefree summer

may be enjoyed. Let us not be as

Othello Be Damned! ‘Y ouw’re a | Stagehand Now!

“DANCING
SATURDAY

 

HALIFAX

All Dalhousians Can
Eat Cheaply
AT. .>

Evangeline

Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.

Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m. - 12 Midnight

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES
91, Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

 

  

&n still find |.

 

ae, a] - i. 28

i? Tn) yt 7 7
of tee

en aa

“i , Pry my r
f _ te * a

_Pag ge Three

  

|pig You Hear The One...

Student: “Why didn’t I
100 on my history exam ?’”

Prof.: “You remember the question: ‘Why did the pioneers go
into the wilderness?’ ”

Student: “Yeah”

Prof.: “Well, your answer, while
very interesting, was incorrect.”

make

 

7 WAYS TO GET A WOMAN

1 Get-a car

2 Get some money

3 Get a car

4 Dress well

5 Get a car

6 Always agree with her
7 Get a car

 

Walking with a friend one day,
a professor passed a large fish
shop where a fine catch of codfish
with mouths open and eyes staring
were arranged in a row.

The prof. suddenly Stopped,
looked at them, and clutching his
friend by the arm, exclaimed:
“Heavens! that reminds me — I
should be teaching a class.”

 

*

“1 would like some alligator

shoes”,

“What size does your alligator”

wear?”

An attendant in a mental home
was making his evening rounds
when he came upon one of the
patients industriously fishing in a

wash basin with rod and line.
Wishing to humor the man, the
attendant asked him if he had
caught anything.
“What!” said the patient. “In

a wash basin? Are you crazy?”

pensive as Mitchell for we have
not had our day, but onward to the
dawn of new endeavour.

By E.LN.

(OXFORD

Now Playing
“Kiss In The Dark”
and
“Too Late For Tears”
Thursday through Saturday

“Duel In The Sun”

and
“Here Comes Trouble”

       
     
       

 

CASINO

“THE LADY
GAMBLES”

starring

 

Barbara Stanwyck
Robert Preston
Steven McNally

*
STARTING FRIDAY
“YES SIR, THAT’S
MY BABY”

 

 

i MR I ieaeh Sh ater Dw
=
st

~

» By JOE LEVISON

a ie Damn it—the Navy has done it again. For the second consecutive year the Draught Beer boys from Stadacona have come between

housie Tigers and the city football championshgp.

Last year it was

vs. Navy in the finals. Navy scuttled the Cats. Saturday it was
in Dal-Navy—this time with the Tigers fighting to stay alive and

a playoff berth. An 18-0 loss
Is had to show for it.

and a grim afternoon was all the

\fter watching the game in Truro when Dal trimmed Stad 20-6

s

‘ew of those spectators could have foreseen the powerful ground attack

the Tars opened up from the kick-off Saturday. In Truro the whole
gal squad couldn’t do anything wrong. Saturday it was just the

ei pposite. Two defensive lapses, both on pass
race of TD’s. But even before that Navy built an 8-0 lead, and it was

defense cost the Tigers a

arent that if the Studley offensive didn’t uncoil in the third quarter

E , For three glorious passes in the final minute of the first half all
was “Jake.” But in the next half the old routine returned. The vaunted
Dal offensive was gummed up—but good. It wasn’t a case of playing

Loe

uh again

t a medigcre team and not getting the breaks. The Navy was a

good team Saturday—and the breaks still didn’t materialize.
mai. Navy’s blocking, particularly by Larson and Agnew was effective

a Ed McLeod, Carroll and Ed McSweeney played good football. Navy’s

x
So @

Bist)

___ line played their best football of the year. That’s how it was.

‘On the exchange of body blows Dalhousie fared much betted than
__ théir opponents. Defensively the Tigers hit like sledgehammers. Exa ~ cept for the odd leak through the line and around the ends plus the
lapses aforementioned the Navy ground gaining was done in small

bounds. ;

_

_. The’ Dal tackling was so hard that three of Navy’s top men were

carried off in the fourth quarter. Quarterback Carrol suffered a broken

cin

ankle on a runback, Ed McSweeney was knocked out cold on a plunge.

mn After the game was over Navy coach Hindle talking to Gabe Vitalone

said that his boys had never been

hit so hard before. But you know

5. who won the game. The loss was also unfortunate because of the ef
Lay i =

ie" 3 thing to do-now
and then begin

x:

rer 7
a Td ;

feet it might have on the Homecoming program. However, the best
is take the Wanderers in our last league game Friday
planning for next year.

* #

For better or for worse Dal is going into Inter-Collegiate hockey

Px “this season.. This corner extends its sympathies to those players who
will be carrying the colours this year, not becaue of the possible lack
7. Lge players, but because they, will have the same superior com petition,

the same mess with practise facilities and

_

+ this year will be Rink Insurance.

games, the same everything.

Some people say that the entering of a team in Intercollegiate hockey

If that’s the ease well and good.

2S November of NEXT year will tell the tale. And don’t forget, as you
R bear with the players with their difficulties support them in their en_ deayours. It takes guts to step onto the ice against powerful teams

*
- 1

oi

_ like St. F.X. and Acadia without having the competition and the facilA ities that they have. .Dal hockey squads in the last two years haye

tried to make up those deficiencies with spirit, A little of that same

a
bia |
—— eee

7

¥ f
Ahn
a4 m| if >

hy. ‘

Spirit in Dal fans wouldn’t go amiss.

eS

a BengalsMaul Airmen
_ Capture League Lead

On Saturday night before a crowd of about 200 the Dal. Tigers
sunk the Shearwater basketball team by a 62 to 35 score. What started

out as a rout for Dal in the opening minutes of play turned into a hard

fought battle.

-__ Blaek dnd Gold

Be Jim
_ The next 8 minutes saw “Chuck”
‘ ee? Connely take complete charge of
t the situation as he scored 9 conSecutive points to put Dal ahead
. 13 té 8. The ball handling and
ae defense of the Tigers was excellent. When Connelly cooled off,
_ Mason MacDonald stepped into the
 __-seoring picture with his jumping
'_ two handers from the keyhole. Don
| Tanner kept control of both back|. boards. At the 15 minute mark the
' Score stood at 25 to 15 for Dal. At
es this point both hoop aggregation
gee Started running wild with the re| sult that there was no further

scoring until Findlay put a one
hander through the hoop. As the

f

___ buzzer sounded Dal led 27 to 15.
___-'‘The second frame opened slowly

¥ Co
bi oF
Pad

as the Dal Intermediates could not
_ find the range of the net. Slowly
ny i the airmen crept up, decreasing the
> Tiger lead to 9 points. This challenge was met by Mahon, MacNd _ Donald, and Finlay as they poured
_ ball after ball through the hoop.

_ This sudden surge gave the Cats a

ss 44 to 30 lead at the 12 minute

It was only in the last few minutes of action that the
opened a large gap. At half time the Cats lead 27-15.
The first half opened with both teams employing a fast break.
Mahon of Dal, on a one hander from side court put the Tigers in
A basket and a foul put the Navy men in the lead.

mark. With 3 minutes remaining
in the game the Tigers broke loose.
The Vita-Men ran up and down the
floor scoring at will. Final Score
Dal 62: Shearwater 35.

Cubs Dro
To Kings

In a scheduled game of the Halifax Intermediate English Rugby
League, the Kings College Blues
downed the winless Dal Cubs by a
9-0 score.

The Cats, playing without several of their regulars, were no
match for the speedy Kingsmen,
and early in the game, fleet-footed
Fergus Ferguson darted down the
side-lines to give Kings a 3-0 lead.
Frank “Cap” Corning made it 5-0
as he booted the convert.

The ‘Tigers played short-handed
until half-time as Don Waller was
forced to retire for repairs after
receiving a kick above the eye,

= » a ee ;
eee. ee 9 ae | Pe

ee ese
eee aa

; Squad Swamps Shearwater 62-35

O NAVY SINKS DAL

Tech Edges Tigers |Navy Victory Eliminates Tigers

In Practice Game From Canadian Football Playoff

It was a cloudy, cold afternoon at Redland Park last Saturday and
the result of the football game did nothing to warm the hearts of chilled Dalhousians. , Navy’s 18-0 win shattered Dal’s hopes for a league

In a practice game played yesterday at the Wanderer’s Grounds
the championship Tech squad
downed the Varsity Tigers 3-0.
The Dal team was a mixture of
senior and intermediate players,
and more than held their own in
the abbreviated contest. Due to
early classes the game lasted only
25 minutes.

Sparked by Kezel, the Engineers
drove to an early lead as Young
went over on a pass from Trainor.
The Bengals came back strong as
Delory and Laphen teamed up on
several brilliant runs, and after
Cruikshank had bulled 30 yards to
the Tech 10, the game ended with
Tech in possession.

title.

However, this does not mean that we are through for the sea
son. We have one game left that being with W.A.A.C. to be played on
Remembrance Day at Wanderers Park. Next Friday’s game, the finale
of regular league schedule, will be staged during Homecoming Week
giving the Dalhousians of Yesteryear a chance to see our boys in action, and, not to say the least, a taste of good old Dalhousie spirit.

Dal kicked off to open the first
quarter. Navy brought the ball
down deep in their own territory
and drove it back to almost center. “Transfer” McSweeney, one
of Stad’s latest “imports” carried
the ball to the Dal 30 yd. line. His
placement kick failed but it weft
for 1 point as George Mattison was

ae

McLeod of Navy is stopped for a loss by Dalhousie’s Hugo Jones
on an extension play. around the Tar’s left end. Tigers Levison and
Nickerson (28) are following up on the play, while Tommy Belliveau
(19), has fallen prey to a Navy blocker.

McLeod was especially effective on these short sneaks around the
end, and deserves much of the credit for the Sailor’s win.

Tigers Drop
Soccer Game

Dalhousie’s unsung soccer team
battled the “Appleknocking” Axemen to a 2-all draw at Acadia last
Saturday. However, as the Axemen were up one goal in the total
points series, Acadia walked off
with the N. S. crown. They will
now play the winner of the N.B.P.E.I. series for the tri-province
title,

The Tigers opened the scoring
early in the first half with Hanoman booting the ball past Collins
on a screened shot. They wasted
little time in racking up another
goal as Hibberts pushed another
past Collins,

Acadia, behind two goals, began
to solve Dal’s tricky passing plays.
Gonzales, playing forward for
Acadia, finally shoved one past
Ramesar, This ended the scoring
in the half,

The play in the second half seesawed back and forth over the
field. For awhile it looked ‘as
though Dal would walk off with a
2 to 1 win tying up the series.
Then it happened. Manuel Gonzales came up with the gem of the
day. Nixon kicked from the corner
and Gonzales deflected it into the
net with ‘his head, giving Acadia
the series clincher,

Cap Corning racked up his second score of the day on a beautiful
30 yard goal to give the Blue and
White a 7-0 lead soon after the
second half began.

Then the Tigers began to roll,
and controlled the ball for most of
the remaining time, but although
pushing deep into Kings territory,
were unable to cross the line.

Corning ended the scoring as he
connected on a short penalty kick
and the game ended with Kings on
the long end of a 9-0 score.

The Kingsmen were led by Ferguson, Anglin, and Corning, while
the standouts for Dal were Bowes,
Ellis and Grayston.

|Engineers Win

Over Liverpool

An eleven man team of Dal Engineers, led by Manager Jim
“Spike” Fenton, and captain Ross
“Snapper” Kenway downed the
thirteen man _ Liverpool High
School English rugby team by a
30-0 score last Saturday.

While eating their lunch, the
boys were asked if they could field
a team to play at 4 P.M., right
after their trip through the Mersey
Paper Co. plant.

The Engineers were sparked by
Mahon, with 11 points, and Franklin and Smith, both with 6 points,
It is planned to make the game an
annual affair.

D.G.A.C.
a . >
Activities

Intermural basketball is still in
command of the spotlight position
among D.G.A.C. activities. As
things stand now, the Swish are
leading the league. So far they
have notched up two wins without
any defects. The Schmoos and
Skunk Hollow are tied for second
place, with a win and a loss apiece.
As yet the Atomettes haven’t been
able to end a game as the victors,
but they certainly have put up lots
of competition. Perhaps in tonight’s game their ‘fightin’ ’ spirit
will gather in a victory for them.
This evening at 6:15 the Swish will
be playing the Skunk Hollowites,
and at 8 Atomettes and Schmoos
will clash.

Let’s not forget about swimming.
The Physical Education Department went to considerable trouble
to get Stad for us. Keep in mind
that at least 15 swimmers have to
appear, if we have even vague
hopes of having the pool after
Christmas. (Remember Mondays
4.30+5.30).

Varsity basketball practices are
still continuing Wednesday an
Friday at 1.30, ;

brought down behind the line. Dal
took the ball on the 25 and went
for a first down. Failing to pick up
the required yardage Wilson booted
to the Navy 50. Once again McSweeney drove back for Navy and
punted for another point. The
next play proved costly to Dal for
in punting, Bobbie Wilson injured
his ankle and was «forced to leave
the game.

The play in the second quarter
for all but a brief spasm in the
dying moments took place in Dal
territory. McSweeney on a pass
from MacLeod went over for the
first major of the game giving
Navy a 7 to 0 lead. With one minute to go in the half the Tigers on
their own 10 yd. line let loose with
a do or die aerial attack. MacKay
completed four successive short
passes and in the final play of the
half threw a 40 yd. desperation
pass to Stacey who wedged deep
into Navy territory before he was
brought down to end the half.

The second half was much the
Same story. Dal’s attempts for
touchdowns all ended in failure as
the score indicates. McSweeney
booted another point for Stadacona
while Carrol and Murray each
racked up touchdowns.

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price
for Young Men

C525 o
SSSA
Sposa!
Coe Se
esos on)
= ete
Re Pe

b fone s
5 sons

ee
eS
SS
Sos
Foe

y

Mf
ah y)
j we

i

Ni
“a \
\ ‘yn

‘

 
