        
  
  
     

'

~

)

Cs

~

 

s / a a
Pi

rt ‘

L¢ <<

= 78 AJ

. s j
1 Hi
:
'

THE

    

a af
|

   

~*~

‘ oo fi
yo
Pana ie
IN
f a"

   

ALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

I . 4 ‘ Le <
a va a. ae A 7h ~~ eee re
Pe ETOP Te Ae eRe OR a
SA

ROCK PARLIAMENT —

     

MILLIONAIRES’ BALL

FRIDAY, 10th

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1950

No. 26

 

Some of the cast of the DGDS production of “Othello”, which was

seen last night by the students, and which will be presented tonight and

tomorrow to the public.

 

Mock Parliament is expected to
open this year on Monday, Feb. 18,
L. W. Fraser, K.C., as speaker.
This Parliament is conducted along
the lines of the Federal body in
Ottawa, and parliamentary procedure is strictly observed. There
are no elections, each member of
the Law School being entitled to
membership. The support is drawn
theoretically from the campus political clubs, although political affiliations are not strictly adhered
to.

The Liberal Club will form the
government. At a meeting last
week D. C. Robertson was elected
Prime Minister. W. C. Matthews,
President of the Progressive-Conservative Club will be Leader of
The Official Opposition, who will
be assisted in opposition by George
Loukes, President of the C.C.U.F.
The ministry wil be made up of
about ten government supporters.

Mock Parliament will run for
three days. The first night will be
taken up with the general procedure of the opening of the House.

3 Year’s Session of Mock Parliament
To Begin Next Week at Law School

The members will be called from
the Commons chamber to the Senate room where the Speech from
the Throne will be read. The members will then return to their
chamber where the Prime Minister,
the leader of the opposition and
other members will speak in the
debate on the Speech from the
Throne.

Either the Motion in reply to the
Speech from the Throne or the second will be delivered in French in
observance of a long-standing tradition at Dalhousie.

The second night the government
will introduce two pieces of legislation. The last sitting of Parlia
D.G.D.S. PRODUCTION

“OTHELLO” SUCCESS

E What the Student

Council Did Tuesday

Aproved Glee Club Budget of

$30 for electricians Fees.

2. Heard report on I.S.S. Dance.

3. Dealt with miscellaneous correspondence,

4. Learned that Chess Club has
$3.81 to its credit and Student
Veterans Organization has
$2.80, but was unable to take
action as these groups had no
representation at the meeting.

5. Apointed committee to choose
Dal students to attend NFCUS
Quebec Seminar. (Lomas, Ross
Hamilton, Dr. Smith).

6. Heard report of NFCUS National President Richey Love,
on NFCUS national activities
and the local NFCUS Committee,

7. Voted to reallocate $50 from
Sodales budget to help meet
expenses of Law debaters to go
to Osgoode Hall.

8. Sodales Budget of $87.20

passed.
9. Decided to have report on
1948-1949 Yearbook. mimeo
graphed and distributed among
Council members.

10. Heard report of Publicity Committee and passed Publicity
budget.

ment will be taken up with two|1!- Appointed Committee to look

opposition bills, one sponsored by
each party.

into means of financing future
Yearbooks.

The meetings of the Mock Par-| 4?- Decided to hold Student Forum

liament will open to the general
public, and students in History and
Political Science who are looking
forward to Law are especially welcome. This is the oldest Mock
Parliament in Canadian Universities and was initiated in 1886.

 

~ Dr. T. W. Isherwood Delivers First

,

\

 

h\ bbren

 

Of Series of Talks

The first of a series of talks by
Cannon T. W. Isherwood was deliyered in the Chemistry Theatre, last
Tuesday before an audience of well
over one hundred students and faculty members.

Dr. Isherwood, rector of St.
Paul’s Church, was brought to the
campus under the joint sponsorship of the LV.C.F. and 8.C,M. organiaztions. He chose the theme
“Our Christian Faith” as the topic
of his lecture.

Introduced by Dr. A. E. Kerr,
president of the University, Dr.
Isherwood defined the Christian
faith as the “faith held by those
who see something unique in
Christ.” For them, He is the embodiment of the mind and will and

purpose of God.

Dr. Isherwood said that he was
not there to defend the Christian
faith, but to let it speak for itself.

In 1950, the Christian Faith is
still the answer to those who would
know the truth. If we are to know
God, we can and must know Him
through Christ who said, “I am the
Way, the Truth, and The Life. ...
‘No man cometh to the Father but

on Religion

we do not look at the world with
blinkers on” stated Dr. Isherwood.
*“We do not hold out against the
facts of the world but come to
grips with them,” he said.

On Feb. 7, Dr. Isherwood will
again speak to Dalhousie students
eoncerning the question, “Is God
at work today?” and will conclude
the series on Feb. 14 with the discussion on “What about the Christian in the modern world.”

NOTICE
‘The Physies and Chemistry
Journal Club will meet in the

Physics Theatre on Tuesday, February 7 at 5 p.m. The first speaker, Dr. E. W. Guptill will discuss
“High Frequency Resistance at
Low Temperatures”. Mr. W. D. L.
Sherren, the second speaker, will
deal with “Thermal Dehydration of
Sugars”,

NOTICE

There will be a full dress rehearsal of the opera “Pirates of
Penzance” Sunday, February 5th,
at 2:00 P.M. A full attendance is
essential, :

on February 14th.

 

Sends Notices

Dalhousie students have been
sent a form to be filled in giving
information as to their extracurricular activities at the University. These were sent out by the
Awards Committee of the Student
Council to determine the point
standing of students who have
earned points to their credit up to
June, 1949.

These forms should be sent in to
the committee before February
7, 1950. If the Committee fails to
hear from any student by that date
it will be assumed that he has no
points to his credit.

 

Plans for D-Day Over
CICH Being Finalized

Plans are being drawn up for the
Annual D-Day Radio Broadcast, to
be held the day before Munro Day.
All announcers, script-writers, etc.,
are invited to attend a meeting to
be held at 2 p.m. in the Basement
of the Arts Building.

This has been an annual affair
and it is hoped that the College
spirit which has been lacking recently, will spark up and make
D-Day a great success, If you’re a
would-be Norm Riley, or a second
George Rich, put your thinking cap
on and leave it there until Friday
at two. CJCH is the station and
the day before Munro Day, will be
Dalhousie Day on CJCH.

 

 

Tracy Outstanding as lago;
Supporting Cast Excellent

“Othello”, the Shakespearian production of the Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society, was presented to an appreciative audience of students last night in the Gym. The main
role, that of Iago, was played by George Tracy who succeeded in portraying the villian in a real Shakespearing style. Art
Hartling handled the part of Othello while that of Desdemona

was played by Willa Seeley.
As important to all practical
purposes as the role of Desdemona
that of Emelia was played by
Holly Flemming. Robin MacNeil
was the loyal and brave Cassio.
H. Leslie Pigot was responsible

Varsity Vetoes
Student Pubs

TORONTO—(CUP)—Beer will
never solve the problem of crowded conditions in Hart House, according to Président Sidney Smith
of the University of Toronto.

The president’s statement referred to a Varsity columnist’s suggestion that beer be sold in the
athletic building in order to raise
funds for the construction of a
more spacious field house.

Bob Dnieper, sports writer for
The Varsity, defended his proposal
on the grounds that the athletic
association would be unable to

| raise the two million dollars necessary to build an adequate athletic

Awards Committee

‘ing Hart House each day, Dneiper

building unless such a scheme was
adopted.

Of the 9,000 male students visit
estimated that “90 per cent admit
they drink, nine per cent lie about
it and the rest have stomach
ulcers.” On the basis of this, he
predicted a potential profit of
$150,000 a year through the sale
of beer. In five years, the university would have enough money to
begin construction.

for the excellent directing and
guidance required to stage such a
difficult production. As in the past
productions such as ‘“MacBeth”,
and “Twelfth Night” Mr. Pigot coordinated the acting, scenery, and
various details into a complete art.

The production was unified in
many instances by the suitable
and well prepared scenery and
stage effects. The industry of the
Stage crew was aparent. Albert
McMahon was the stage manager.

 

J. L. Ilsley Appointed
Chief Justice of N. S.

The Federal Government announced last Thursday the appointment of Mr. Justice Ilsley to the
position of Chief Justice for Nova
Scotia following the death of Sir
Joseph Chisholm on January 22nd.

Mr. Justice Ilsley attended college at Acadia University, following which he moved on to Dal Law
School where he graduated in 1916
with an LL.B. After this he studied law in Kentville and later at
Halifax. In 1928 he received his
King’s Counsel.

In 1928 he was elected to the
House of Commons as a Liberal.
He was re-elected again in 1980
and in 1935 when he was appointed

to the Privy Council. During the
war he was Minister of Finance
and in 1946 became Minister on
Justice.

In May 1949 he was appointed
to the Supreme Court of Nova
Scotia.

 

Canadian Education L ecline in
Intensity, Principal Declares

Kingston, On.t (CUP) — “Canaeducation is as good as any but is
lacking in intensity as compared to
that in Britain,” was the conclusion drawn by Principal Wallace of
Queen’s University in a _ recent
forum. The subject of the forum
was: “Canadian Education, Good,
Bad, or Indifferent ?”

Opening the discussion, Mr. Hutton of the Extension Department,
commented on improvements in the
educational system in recent years
notably the centralization into
larger units which permits expanded facilities. As for the contention that this discouraged local
initiative, in his experience “there
was little local initiative to discourage.” He noted an improvement in inspectors who no longer
“terrorised students, and paralyzed
teachers.” The latter, however,
were still too poorly paid and the
turnover of them too high.

He urged the responsibility of

high schools and universities to
interest their students in a teaching career. The failure of our
schools to engender a legitimate

nationalism was deplorable. They
were turning our “geographical

morons and historical illiterates.”

As to dynamic internationalism
“the vision of a united world is
the veriest pipe dream to the person with no vision of a united
country,” he concluded.

He emphasised the attempt to
eradicate white collar snobbery by
issuing almost identical graduation
certificates to students from academic, commercial and _ technical
branches, the main divisions in
most high schools. To point his
most serious criticism of our educational system he cited the case
of a young graduate of Victoria
College who drowned when his
canoe capsized ten feet from shore

since he had not been taught to

swim.

Po. = “aS

"
4 .
“<

q
+

om
a

¥

x
a
A

es
*

 
    

  

CP ee ae mS
ry ' vr aie e i

ey "AMERICA’S OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
ra Member Canadian University Press

Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
University. Opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
Students’ Council. For subscriptions write Business Manager,
Dalhousie Gazette, Halifax, N. S.

SEAR CUETO? Sa cenldtika secieewitie ‘Wore cere ls axle § ++ +++++8-7098
d Bruce Lockwood ...... Sam eas Rta a Editor-in-Chief
e Maurice Foisy ...... he Sp oP I et Managing Editor
ae on Nee Davetude ee oe
pet Murray Higgins ........ BE CLA a a ded xem Seis Abe's ice Manager
mre EES RS TOTTI LET III eat C.U.P. Editor
Re | EDITORIAL STAFF
! ae ire prea Perth } eee d VR ks 6 Sa els Eola Piaie phate <a News Editors
et Marj. Goldburgh ]......... Oy A A ee .., Feature Editor
a Bruce Irwin |
is Pat Ahern } DE on aula eed sietieald ale ee dicate ae Sports Editors
oe Don Kerr ;
§ Sports Reporters......... Ralph Medjuck, Jack Schwartz, Joe Levison
Feature Writers...... Judy McKeen, Barbara McGeoch, Eliphal Nichols

Reporters—Bruce Irwin, Pat Ahern, John Roberts, Bob McInnes,
Noel Goodridge, Coline Macdonald, Betty Livingstone,
Maurice Foisy, Jim Macaulay.

te rh oa ec mcie gig oleate oc Dan Soberman
Gamnentt Va dw idivicie<-x Dave Nicholson, Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald
MR Nee gS ae Pal bigs avn oa bes Meas ha 0 Lucy Calp
OIE ER oe go et Gloria Horne, Rona Yess

 

No. 26

7ol. LX XXII FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3,.1950

 

NEW IDEAS

The Junior Class has developed a new idea... they will
hold their formal dance in the gymnasium this year. Because
the idea is so new, it is being criticized by al and sundry ae
these being the ones who have never heard of a gymnasium
being used for a formal, or using so-called drastic measures
to meet drastic situations.

What they forget or never knew is that, previous to the
building of our two big hotels, a great many formal dances
were held in the gym, and even a few since then.

With the class in debt, there is no good reason why it
should lay itself open to the financial collapse which occurred
last year. Whatever the reason then, there is no cause to
believe that paying three hundred dollars for a ballroom will
not again result in disaster.

The gymnasium can be decorated in such a way as to
remove the bareness, and even the acoustic shortcomings.
With tables strategically placed, and a decent stage show or
some other drawing card planned, a formal in th gym could

a

ee

easily be the best of the year.

 

  

Letters To

January 31st, 1950
The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear Sir,

At a meeting of the Council held
tonight plans were made for a special meeting of-the Council to be
devoted to considering the “state
of the union” and the merits of a
brief being prepared on the subject. During the discussion it was
stated that a serious misunderstanding had arisen as to the
Council’s position in relation to my
remarks at last term’s student
forum. It was said that people
both on and off the Campus had
tended to associate the Council
with what I had said.

I therefore feel bound to say (as
I said at the Forum) that I could
speak for myself only, and that my
remarks represented my own feelings only, and were in no way to
The Council was not consulted bebe asociated with the Council’s.
fore the speech was delivered.

Mr. McKinney laid down the
only precedent that I am aware of,
and he referred to his own remarks as “a more or less personal
report ... the result of my own
personal experiences and observations as President of the Council.”

Yours very truly,
ARTHUR MOREIRA,
President,
the Council of Students

AN OPEN LETTER

For weeks I’ve been listening to
uninformed individuals voicing
their opinions on why Pharos is
late and how inefficient an editor
the publication had. I planned to
let the quality of the book speak
for me but the committee in charge
informs me that binding hasn’t
started as yet and, as a result of

-yesterday’s column by your mis
interpreter of facts, one O’eNill,
the following statement is necessary.

To single out one individual or
organization and there place the
blame is a typical O’Neill method,
and here, as in most cases, he

doesn’t know enough facts (or is

unwilling to print them) to warrant his sounding off. His effort
to lift the mantle of shame from

 

The Editor

Moreira’s

 

(and the

Council’s)
drooping shoulders and place it on
mine is more evident of his sincere friendship for Moreira and his
policies than an attempt to obtain
the truth,

That the yearbook is late is due
to an unhappy combination of facts
and circumstances which couldn’t
happen again, Originally there
was a time clause in the publisher’s contract which called for Sixteen pages per weck being delivered. This operation was to commence in February when the
graduate sections were due. The
staff was forced to break that
agreement because the graduates
refused to cooperate in getting pictures taken and write-ups in. Students said the photographers we
picked were expensive. Considering that we Supplied gowns students had been forced to rent previously they were cheaper and better,
give me authority to accept pictures only from photographers who
could deliver quality pictures on
time and failed. By the time the
pictures were in (four weeks late,
in some instances) my grad editors couldn’t devote much time to
year book duties as they had. Glee
Club practices nightly. From the
beginning we were late.

Other factors further delayed
Pharos. The last three hundred
undergrad shots weren’t printed by
the operator who did the others.
The new chap made a hash of it
and at that stage my staff was so
energetic that they mixed the bad
shots with the good—as a result
al of the underlgrad shots had to
be gone over by the photographer
and the inferior shots reprinted.
This necessitated trimming of some
of the shots and as a result this
section which was to have followed
the grads to press was also delayed. No other section of a year
book can go to press before the
student activities close, unless students want a book which ends its
coverage in January. é

My girls’ sports’ editor wasn’t as
energetic in getting pictures for
her section as she-could have been,
and when she did get the photographers and girls together, the

I appealed to the Council to’

photographer slipped on the ice,
smashing his camera and ruining
his negatives. Another attempt
was made the next week with a
new camera—the camera was defective with blurry results. The
following time only half the girls
showed up which meant another
photographer had to chase them
down individually. The same sort
of thing happened with almost
every other section.

The mens’ sports editor couldn’t
grasp what he had to do—features
staff was worse because with their
departure many of our best pictures vanished. Photographers
were hampered by lack of darkroom facilities and overwork (the
previous year more work was done
by paid photographers), combined
with the lethargy of student organizations whose cooperation is essential. I knew, before we found
the covers would be late, that, it
would be impossible to get a book
out on time, but to have mentioned
that would have meant that even
more pressure would have had to
be exerted on the staff. During
February and early March, I could
devote only so much time to the
year book and most of the time I
had to spend chasing material for
Sections which should have gone to
press previously, leaving me little
time to get work done on other
sections. The staff was told early
in the year that they were expected to perform their duties, once defined, without undue pressure being exerted. They didn’t, and very
little of their work was completed
at the end’ of March when they
stopped to study, some promising

faithfully they’d stay after exams

to complete their work. Only one,
Mary MacKay, kept her word. Another person who did twice as much
work as she should have had to do
was Carol Wood but even she got
discouraged. .

If the staff had stayed, the book
couldn’t have come out on time because of a misunderstanding by
the cover company, stemming from
a mistake made by a Canadian
trade official in New York. When
the covers were half completed
(cut, grained, embossed and rubbed), one of the firm’s officials was
told by this Canadian that due to
the American dollar shortage, customs wouldn’t allow the covers into
this country. I knew this to be untrue, but had great difficulty in
persuading the company I was
right, finally getting a ruling
through the efforts of our local
M.P. The covers, much superior
and just as cheap as their Canadian counterparts, arrived in July.

Knowledge the covers wouldn’t
arrive until towards the end of
July, angry because my staff
walked out after exams, and the
necessity of working to obtain
money to live on until

commenced in June, led me _ to

\esse//
ER

BOO
sg

PLAY ERS

ares pecker a!
a vdt ew

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE. __

leave further work on the book un;| THIS ACTION WOULDN’T DE
til I arrived in Cape Breton. I did
a limited amount of work on the
book after my arrival there. I
readily admit I could have finished
the book before the middle of June,
but AT THE TIME I FELT SURE

LAY FINAL PUBLICATION.
‘Shortly after my arrival I sustained a serious skull fracture
which kept me under treatment in
Cape Breton and Halifax until
(Continued on page three)

 

  
 
  
 
  
 


—™
- ars

 

Ne

—
we
I

= a
beh hd A
——

E yayr ‘And I thought
Chairmen had it easy”

Egbert has worked hard for four years
to get the top job on the campus...
only to find it means more work and
less leisure.

One thing he latched onto quickly
though was that the best way to stop
moaning those leaky-pocket blues was
to stow away those spare sheckels in a
savings account at “MY BANK”,

Don’t leave them in your jeans... lay
aside those extra beans!

     

  

U4
 

ely We arog Cau Sore ae
oe Re ea ae |

WORKING WITH CANADIANS TS EVERY ett OF LIFE SINCE 1817

Halifax Branch:

my job} North End Branch:

Quinpool Road and Kline St.:

ip

NAV Y

 
  

ands Haste

?

JOHN A, HOBSON, Mgr.

JOHN A. EDWARDS, Asst. Mgr.
CHARLES SMITH, Mer.

JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mer.

   
   

REMEMBER —

Haye: ‘MILD WUTN WETPROOF PUPER

20 WOT STICK TO YOUR LIPS

Cc UT CIGARETTE S5§

eu were.
vo oe
oo

 

ey Sig) SS Sy scam” 5

 

a ee 4 - Ms Fede . :
a aol Sai ee ay ee ey > we ne eae |

    
  
Hes i

. i " F may.
oi ees sens ive “i J
ae ee ee a2 peryietial a oe i

  
  
   
  
 
 
    
    
  
   
   
     

teers: was no bp. eat staff
member able to help me and all I
attempted to do was keep everybody as happy as possible and do
the work myself.

I found around the first of December I didn’t have time to finish the book and pass my exams.
In order to finance my year it was
necessary to pass the exams (I’ve
sacrificed more than enough for
Pharos with no material remuneration, it having cost me all of the
salary received as editor for two
years to pay expenses incurred as
editor, and to make up for time
lost in the summer of 1948 when I
Stayed to ensure every student
getting a book on time. Therefore
I decided to complete Pharos during Christmas vacation and did finish it despite serious illness in my
family which took much of my
time.)

When I ealled Kentville on
January 8rd to see when they could
print the rest of the book so as to
inform the engravers how fast
they’d have to work to complete
their job, I was astonished by
their statement that two Dal men
had completed the book the day
before, leaving out eight pages
and distributing other material
very lightly so that there was
more blank space on pages 83-70
than anything else. Finding out
their names were Moreira ‘and
Lomas, I got in touch with those
gentlemen, told them the book
would be out my way just as fast
as their way, and asked that they
allow me to complete jt in the proper manner. They refused me and
Moreira said I was fired.

The following morning I contacted Gordon Coles, the law representative, and after showing
him the material in my room, convinced him of my ability to finish
well before the binders were ready
to commence work. Moreira came
to see the material, said “I’m certainly impressed”, but refused to
change his mind.

(Concluded next week)

 
 
   
  
  
   
     
    
     
    
  
     
  
    
  
    
 
     
   
  
  
  
   
    
     
  
  
   
  
    
     
   
 
  
  
   
   
    
      
     
   
  

  
  
  
  
  
    
  
   
    
    
  
  
    
    
    
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
     
 

PPh nes of wy accident ‘and
as I told Moreira in subset phone conversations, that I
t well enough to complete the
k at an early date. At that time
nadn’t attempted to do any close
ay work subsequent to my accident.
When I did, it was impossible to do
nything. Moreira and company
_weren’t particularly sympathetic
Moreira | made several attempts to
_ reach me by phone but never once
me used ‘the proper phone—finally
Bo _ when he did get me at the correct
i one (it was my first trip there in
4 E- week) he felt sure I was lying).
- Finally they ordered all material
to be sent to Halifax to them.
i | Krovi there was no one in the
7 Stroup qualified to finish it, I re~ fused.

) : a __ By September 20th I was able to
i we complete four more sections of the
book and forwarded them to the
a jmublishere with instructions to send
_ final proofs to me in Halifax. I

1. et OP vetoed and told Moreira immedi| ately after arrival that the book

a 1, would be out by the end of October. I am repeating my year (due
eels to too much Pharos) and
_ | felt that I.could afford two more
> psy weeks solid work which was neces, ; sary for the book’s completion.
x After attending classes, finding
Vy Fi ‘new professors teaching courses in
di { which I had to write finals at
Christmas with added work, I
found much more scholastic en_ deavor necessary than anticipated.
In addition, the sections I’d forSy warded to Kentville, in the absence
of Mr. Burns, were thrown in a
) corner by a secretary and then
| Kentville insisted on the work on
+ these sections being repeated. This

a I did, together with much of the
a work on the remaining 5 sections.
_At the Student Forum I said the
book could be out by the middle of
_ December and hoped it would be. I
made several understatements re_ garding the amount of work re-— maining which Moreira made much
of later. However for ‘good reasons

EUROPEAN

if STUDENT TOUR

    
    
 

   
  

  
  
  
  
     

     
    

   

 

 

 

ee ie Sail May 27th on One Class ship in Canadian Service with
el run of the ship privileges. London, Trossachs, Edinburgh;

1 ie motor tour of Seott Country, English Lakes, Shakespeare
Lan Country, Oxford. Holland, Belgium, Lucerne, Interlaken,

er | Montreux, Geneva, Italian Lakes, Venice, Rome, Hill Towns,
Florence, French and Italian Rivieras, Paris. 67 days $1098
for complete tour or $878 without Italy.

phone, call or write

i‘

UNIVERSITY TRAVEL CLUB

57 Bloor St. West, Toronto, Kingsdale 6984
Management: J. F. and G, H. Lucas

  

 

| IT PAYS
TO SHOP
at EATON’S

en
=
«

   

- Largest Assortments

- Best All-Round Values

- Gootls Satisfactory or
| | Money Refunded

  
  
   
      
  
 
 
 
 
 

\

  
  
   
    

What Is LSS.

The International Student
Service is an international organization with headquarters at
Geneva, Switzerland devoted to
the promotion of international
understanding in the wniversities of the world, the encouragement of a _ disinterested
search for Truth, and the maintenance of intellectual freedom
within the universities. The objective is to be found in the tolerance and friendship characterizing the university community.
In realization it will be found in
free discusison of common problems, understanding of opposing
points of view and a willingness
to co-operate and in any way
posible way in solving the material and intelectual problems
of the university community.
I.S.S. is completely non-political,
giving help where it is needed,
and where such help can be
supervised by competent individuals,

T-SQUARE

The sad news, my friends, is all
too true. Engineers’ undefeated
record in interfac basketball and
hockey took a beating at the hands
of two superior Arts, & Science
teams last week, and hopes for
first place in the combined sports
standing recede into the distance.

The hoopsters went down fighting at the short end of a 24-16
score, but with little of the smoothness exhibited in previous games.
Dave McCurdy was without doubt
the hottest man on the floor, while
Bob Knight and Don Smith showed up best for the black-and-white.

he refereeing in this particular
game came in for even more than
the usual quota of catcalls, and
from both groups of supporters
let it be noted.

Last Tuesday the hockey squad
got their chance at the A. & S.
boys, and despite the sterling efforts between the pipes of George
Love, the final score was 3-2
against. Wally Hughes and Ken
Reardon put away the two goals
for the Boilermakers.

Even for those whose most athletic activity is shuffling a deck of
pasteboards, the last few days have
brought their share of hard knocks.
The great Shack Gaming Room
and Card Parlor has lost its license,
no less, and with exception of the
noon hour period, the small intent
groups of students with the everpresent kibitzers henceforth must
be poring over something else than
a game of hearts. Over a pool
table perhaps, or a red hot pair of
bones, or even a mech. plate. But
Matilda, but away that pack of
bicyeles! Do you want to get the
joint pinched ?

Anyway, we can always improve
our minds by browsing through the
Art Gallery so kindly provided!

  
    
   
   
    
   
  
    
     
    
   
    
    
    
    
  
  
   
  
    
     
    
   
    
   
   
    

 

Seminars Are Big Job
For Canadian 1.5.5.

During the last two years two
summer seminars have been held in
Europe due to the efforts of the
International Students Service of
Canada. By sponsoring these seminars, Canadian I.S.S. hopes to increase international: understanding
through the most effective means,
personal contact. About fifty
Canadian students tome together
with seventy European students
somewhere in Europe for a period
of five or six weeks. This year’s
Seminar will be held in France.

Canadian I.S.S. is responsible
for organizing and administering
Seminars. A generous grant from
UNESCO each year makes these
Seminars possible. The provincial
governments co-operate by covering the travelling expenses of the
Canadian students. In addition,
the Dalhousie Students Council hes
assisted the Dalhousie representatives with a grant to defray expenses. Many of the arrangements in Europe are made through
European branches of the LS.S.

and the Canadian Sere staffs
a Ereere,

 

    
  
    
    
     
    
    
   
   

  
  
  
 

1949 National Financial Reis

‘Presented At Autumn Conference

Value of projects undertaken in 1949:
Displaced Persons Project—25 European students brought

from Europe and placed in Canadian Universities for

1 year. Average vaule per student: travel—$250.

Selection—$100. Reception—$100. Fees—$175. Personal

—$300. Lodging—$450.—Total—$1,375. ‘Total value—$ 34,375.00
Less from last year’s campaign.................. 5,000.00

$ 29,375.00
European seminar—Grants from UNESCO, Individuals and

Faevittcssl tvernments, .2% . 066! Soe ee os $ 37,000.00
CARR) grant 46° 1,5.5,.for relief. o.oo OR ee $ 25,000.00
Funds raised in Canadian Universities.................... $ 19,000.00
Contributions from individuals and fmindationg )).)5..600 560.0% $ 1,900.00

$112,275.00
The costs of administering this program were as follows:

Eamets ir BMNNIeey WN a le eee $ 3,718.00
APMHUArHUve waluriog {ley operas 6,539.00
RIPTACUNMDIRINEORE BCE ol oo el oy bed vas cect ale 2,249.00
Admin, travel (incl. selection of DFP students); 625 aovs2 oh 1,662.00
CREME OEM POM ER er es iyi is ART fe ian! atin 2 galt a 750.00
PARE EDI aly, See kcas'r UK dled win c 4 de eels ete et, ee 49,00

Total cost of administering program.............. ..«-$ 14,966.00
The financial statement is as follows:
RECEIPTS from Ganadian Universities................... $21,743.00
DISBURSEMENTS
Transfer of funds to World Student Relief—
OT SE erate eR a edhe tele $ 56.32

Rebates to Canadian Universities for susten
GOO OG SHOU IE Be oo eae ec ek ede wens 4,495.68
General Expensces:
Administrative Salaries.......... $ 6,539.19
Postage and Express............ 252.62
Campaign and Publicity......... 3,718.30
RUE MitRP OO ae A ON Sg 36.20
Office Supplies and Eqpt......... 535.19
Telephone and Telegraph........ 430.33
Lean to. TUN Presa. 5 ees. 100.00
Loans to Students in Canada..... 500.00
PasmCCMnM ee kW Dic i asa os Peace: 1,031.40
$15,317.05
Less Deficit on 1949 Seminar 3,300.00 12,017.05 16,569.05
MRCRIRORE PGR ard leet ee SPIE aid chee aiats leone ate Delia or 5,174.51
Add balance from 1948 seminar ..................000- 834.79
6,009.30
Less deficit: Conference travel pool............. 137.18
LAE Mie a tl abm: god's iin 0 ecece w aa, ola 582.45
Summer seminar—1949............ 6,448.39 7,168.01
1,158.71
Balance of funds as at Sept. 30, 1948.............0.00ceuee 12,854.91
Balance of funds as at Sept. 30, 1949..............2.00 eee. 11,696.20

 

Thirst Knows

No Season

ss @ sk for it either way
+» » doth trade-marks
mean the same thing.

 

496X

TUNE IN Every Sunday Evening
EDGAR BERGEN with CHARLIE McCARTHY
Dominion Network & CFRB-8:00 p.m. E.S.T.

 

COCA COLA LTD. HALIFAX

  

  
   
   
    
   
  
    
     
  

    
   
    
 
   
    
    
    
    
   
  
  

 

  
    
   
     

 

    
   
  
  
  
  
 
    

   

     

      
    
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
 

     
   
    
    
    
  
  
  
     
   
   
    
   
    
  
  
    
  
  

   
    
  
  
    
  
  
   

      
        
   
     
 
 

 
    

So mae

ve DAVE JANNIGAN

  
 

  
 

ee with the dutiful curiosity of a naturalist I had hoped in
7 column to straddle or at best ponder over the nature of the human

 
  
  
  
  

wy strangely the mind reacts. For instance hon ball pens came on
em market, lavish advertising claimed that these pens could write
y at altitudes and under water. Who ever writes under such

  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

+ + * oa

  
 
  

i The hockey team has made its visit to Newfoundland for 1950. For
he past few years it has done so and it looks like a repeater for the

  
    
  

oi ‘ing, but after they convinced Bliss Leslie that he couldn’t take his car
eh along, the flight was finally made. The inhabitants of that province are
_ in the majority fishermen and take a keen interest in this occupation as
well as having good taste in fishing equipment. During the first game
in Grand Falls, a group of poorly dressed fishermen gathered around
the Dal goal and watched it intently. Even the players noticed the group
when ledving the ice after the first period. When they returned to the
ieee; ice the fishermen were gone and also the net of the goal. The trip
Was a success financially but the fishermen made a better net profit.
Happy fishing!

   
     
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
 

* * * %

   

Out of the 26 persons that made the trip, the reports are that 16
<< of them had stomach trouble during the return trip, and two of them
_ ~~ had to be left over in ‘Morcton. Maritime Airways say that it was the
roughest plane trip in ten years.

  
   
   
 

ae ee

  
 
  

A few years ago in the major leagues of baseball there was a great
deal of ballyhoo about the lavish salaries being offered ballplayers by
the owners of the Mexican League. It then became axiomatic that players who would jump to that loop would be barred from the U.S. proai fassional circuits. When the ballplayers grew disastisfied with the

Mexican League, they took legal action against the U.S. big-guns of
baseball. Such developments have taken place on the Dalhousie campus.
cs Keith “Doe” Fancy has been barred from the Upper Tantallon entry in

_ the rugged Shore League because he jumped to the Commerce team of
the Dal Interfac eLague. He is bringing legal action againse the set
es: : tlement of Upper Tantallon, and is suing the town for peanuts (which
| ~~ ~—-—Ss would be his pay if he had started for them). It’s another example of
; dissatisfaction with the ‘C’ Form and a decision wil be rendered pending word from Eddie Shore and Clarence Campbell.

    
    
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
 

    
   
 
 
    

    
   
   
   
    

 
 

  

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
 

  

wear Arrow formals!

  

  

A big evening is made up of little things .. . like
the way your girl smiles, the way your shirt behaves.

   
  
   
   
 
  

When you’re sporting an Arrow formal shirt,
you can relax! Both the Shoreham (for tux) and
the Kirk (for tails) are styled in the Arrow manner
—so comfortable, yet so correct.

ARROW SHIRTS

Cluett, Peabody & Co. of Canada Limited

   
  

   
 

 

 

   
 

  
 

 

  

NOTICE

An Inter-Dal Badminton Tournament will be held in the Gym on
Wednesday, Feb. 8th and Thursday,
Feb. 9th. It will gets tarted each
evening at 7.30. Al entries should
be in by Monday, Feb. 6th. Lists
will be placed at convenient places
in the Arts building, the Forrest
building and the Gym. The committee is anxious to make this
tourney a success, so let’s hope that
there will be a long entry list.
il "Phone wishing to play in the mixeddoubles and are without partners
should sign up anyway and they’ll
od their best to find one for you.

Cat Cagers Meet
Axemen Satur.

The high-flying Dal Tigers, rulers of the Halifax Intermediate
League, take the flor against the
Acadia Axemen on Saturday, at
Wolfville, in the first hoop game
of the current Intercollegiate season.

With the St. F.X. game coming |
up next Tuesday evening at the
Dal Gym, the Tigers have a busy |
week-end ahead, and a win ‘over)
the Fred Kelly aggregation will |
give them a fine start towards the |
League title.

Coach Gabriel Vitalone has had
the boys working out during every
available moment, and has high expectations of a convincing victory.

The Tigers will start out with
Captain Andy MacKay and setshot artist Scotty Henderson on the
guard line. Center “Red” Findlay
will pivot the Bengals’ first line of
Jimmy Mahon and “Hot-shot”
Chuck Connely, both of whom are
among the top scorers in the Halifax League. “Sharpy Arpy” Robertson and Gordy MacCoy will
share the rearguard spot on the
alternate squad, and “Long Bob”
Black will-center Earl Smith and
Mason MacDonald. On _ reserve,
the coach has two of the stars of
the Junior team, Dave MacCurdy
and Doug Clancy. Clancy is the
boy who scored 18 points against
the Stadacona Senior hopsters in
an exhibition game last week.

The Varsity hockey squad will

meet the Acadia pucksters in the
rink immediately after

Wolfville
the basketball contest, and the Dal

Girls Intercolegiate team will take
against the Axettes at

the floor
2.00 PJM. on the same afternoon.

Meet Your Friends at
THE

Riviera Restaurant

 

All Dalhousians Can

Eat Cheaply
AT

Evangeline
Restaurant

280 Quinpool Rd.

Full Course Meals
Meal Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
Foutain Service
OPEN DAILY
8 a.m, - 12 Midnight

 

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

914 Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

85 Spring Garden Road
“DANCING : 8 sities
SATUR ed a ty eect

i Y Pe wat 1. # f= ie ‘
i i , gAr™ ov 7 ", e fi

  

nm, PE - ST

we 7 er re as
DALHOt JSTE GALE:

joan Janes Star as Xavarians

Overwhelm Bengals In Puck Opener

In a hard-played noon-time game yesterday at the Arena, the Dalhousie entry in the Nova Scotia Intercollegiate Hockey League fell before the powerful St. F.X. squad by a score of 10-2. The play was very
ragged throughout, with the X-Men forcing the play all the way.

The first period was a rough-house affair, with numerous penalties handed out by referees Charlie Copus and Reg Beazley. Johnny
Williston opened the scoring for the Tigers at the five minute mark as
he tallied on a slick pass from Jamie Anglin. Then the rough stuff
started. With both teams two men short, the Xavarians slammed back

with two quick goals.

As time ran out in the period, Swarzack of St.

F.X. pulled goalie Ed Janes out of position and sank a picture goal.

The périod ended 3-1.

Dal Girls Trounce
Kings Team 27-10

Dal girls’ Varsity hoop team once
again walloped King’s girls in a
one-sided hard fought game. The
score ended up 27-10 for the Black
and Gold. Dal showed far superior ball handling all the way
through. Their shooting was also
on a much higher plane (no pun
meant). The Dal girls let a few
too many rebounds slip past them
and the KI-KI girls were right in
there to pick them off. Marilyn
MacIntyre put in 6 baskets to
gather in 12 points. Her line-mate
Gay Esdale notched up 9 points
with four baskets and one free
throw. Betty “Cuz’’ Cousins tossed in two baskets and a foul shot
| for the remaining 5 points.

Betyt Petrie was staunch and
steady on the guard line for Dal
|and Gloria Teed put in a top flight
performance on the King’s defence.
Al in al neither team gave an over
show of enthusiasm.

 

 

The “A” team chaulked up another win to their credit on Tuesday night when they downed the
St. Pats squad 22-10. Marilyn
MacIntyre once again led the scoring parade with 12 points. Franny
Doane, Gay Esdale and Betty Cousins divided the rest of the markers between them.

 

During the second period the

——®Tigers were completely hemmed in

as the X-Men swarmed around the
net, and Janes rose to the heights,
batting out 14 shots, while MacNeil
in the Xavarian citadel was not
called upon to make a single save
The Tigers were outscored 4-0 and
the Antigonish crew were on top
6-1 as time ran out.

The Tigers came fighting back
in the third period, but the superior pasing plays of the Xavarians
really started to click and they
rapped in three quick goals. Dal’s
first line of Morrison, Smith, and
Jardine pulled a sweet play with
time running out, with Jardine
denting the twines. The game ended with the X-Men on the heavy
end of a 10-2 score.

The shots-on-goal count tells the
story of the game. Janes had to
handle 56 shots, while McNeil was
only forced to stop 10. During the
first two periods the Tigers had
only three shots on the St. F. X.
nets.

For the Bengals, Janes and Captain Jamie Anglin played terific
defensive hockey, ‘while speedy
Johnny Wiliston led the forwards
with his sparkling rushes. Porgy
Kehoe on the Xavarian defense,
played an outstanding game, and
the Swartzack brothers and forward Jackie McEachern sparked
the scoring rushes,

Eugene Swartzack led the scorers with three goals, and McEachern netted two and asisted in another.

 

  
    
   
  
   
 
 
   
   

   
 
   
   

Bob Hart

LOOK!!
THE MARITIME LIFE

“The Home Company”

Has a Plan to fit every
need

Consult its representatives at any time.

Call

Robert E. Hart

City Representative
for prompt service.

Phones: Office—3-8157 Home—3-4098

Addresses: Office—Green Lantern Bldg,
Home—9 Rosebank Ave.

 

 

   

NURSERIES Limited...

426 BARRINGTON ST.
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

Compliments of

JOE and TOM

Diana Sweets
Tea Room

The students recreation centre

 

Come on Students
Ride In The Best

3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone Se Phone
3-7188 83-7188

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

- Halifax

 

 

     

“The Students’ Drug
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and
Sundries, and for unexcelled
Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fadér’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

They’re Popular

Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Be ‘sure the famous Birks
Blue. Box encloses your
choice,

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.

 
   
 

 

 

  

 
