 
   
   
  
 

 

i.

_

>a

pam

 

   

| STUDENTS’
| PERFORM
| PIRATES OF

  

am
Niet
a

ee i
= vee
eae

  
 

 

as

  

q
'
4

a

i) te ; i
- & W
i ;
q

 

+ uC r aya. Ne
mp Ray
ae IER Ae

AS uate ti:

 

ONATIONS HIGHER ON STUDLEY THAN ON FORREST

 

 

 
 

ANCE

     

PENZANCE
IN GYM

THURSDAY
NIGHT

    
   
   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

STUDENT
FORUM

IN GYM
THURSDAY

 

 

Vol. LXXXII

HALIFAX, N. S., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1950

No, 31

 

 

ARITIME RIGHTS AND CCF MEMBERS

 

WALK OUT OF MOCK PARLIAMENT

a ea edna

BH Opposition

 

 

Gazette Photo by Soberman

Scenes like the above were common last Friday evening in the

Dalhousie Gymnasium as the annual Sadie Hawkins’ Dance was held

in celebration of Co-Ed Week. Scott Morrison (L/il Abner) and

Barbara King (Daisy Mae) studiously ignore each other while Bill
Fraser (Hairless Joe) looks on with interest.

ISS DRIVE FOR FUNDS MEETS
WITH INDIFFERENCE AT FORREST

Disinterest and apathy, particularly ‘on the part of the
faculties of Law, Medicine, Engineering, and Dentistry, are
crippling the current I.S.S. campaign for funds.

In comparison with the faculties on Studley, and Pharmacy which is on the Forrest compus, the four aforementioned faculties lag far behind in the campaign.

 

In a canvass of five members of
the Law faculty a member of the
ISS committee discovered that
three of those students had not
bothered to read the letters which
were sent to them as part of the
ISS campaign, and that two of the
three placed greater faith in malicious rumours that the organization was Communist dominated
than in the official literature sent

out by the International Students

Service bearing the endorsations
of the Presidents of Dalhousie University and Kings College, and the
Deans of the Faculties, the Governor General of Canada and Cardinal McQuigan to mention only a
few.

All students who were canvassed
expressed a definite opinion a possible field of future endeavour
would be development of a bursary
system for Canadian students at
Dalhousie. This will be considered
by the Dalhousie Committee, 
The breakdown of Faculty perconeages is as follows:

Pharmacy ...... 37/65 57%
Arts & Science... 311/603 52%
Commerce ...... 74/159 AT%
Post Grad. Studies 25/58 43%
Education ...... 10/27 37%
Engineers ...... 25/107 23%
MME esa ys k? \ ROT RRS 23%
BPG ee ois cass 9/51 18%
Mets sie tes BTF260 14%

The campaign figure has now

reached the $1000.00 mark, and by
the end of the week when the canvass of the faculty has been completed it is expected that the total
will top $1200.00. A great deal of
confusion has been created in some
quarters by rumours that the caution deposit as signed on the post
cards amounts to the rebates of
510.00 or more on laboratory fees,
etc. This is not the case. The ISS

caution deposit is the rebate on the|
$2.00 paid by each student against |

furniture and other breakage in
university buildings. The average
rebate to the committee is $1.00
per signature, or just half the
amount paid in after damages have
been paid by the university.

NOTICES

’The following are D-Day an
nouncers: Chief Announcer, Maurice Foisy; Announcing Staff: Joyce
Hart, Natasha Coffin, Coline MacDonald, Jim Smith, Martin Smith,
Bob Smith, Ian MacDermaid, Ernie
Semple, Jim Bennet and alternate
—Jack Haystead.

 

The Biology Journal Club will
meet in the Biology Lecture Room
of the Forrest Building on Thursday, February 23 at 12 noon.

Speakers will be Dr. J. A. MeCarter and Miss Hope Bridgeford

 

 

*

Parties Indignant at Refusal

To Count Votes on Government Motion
At Dalhousie Mock Parliament Session

ATTENTION
BLOOD DONORS!
Don’t forget to turn up at the
Dalhousie Blood Donor Clinic at

the time for which you volunteered. Remember the Clinic

will be held in the Lower Gym
on Monday and Tuesday, February 27th and 28th. Many more

Blood Donors are. needed and
there is still time to volunteer,
so come on Dalhousians and let’s
make this clinic a success.

 

Pirates Appear in City
in Dal Publicity Stunt

The Public Relations Board tried
a new form of publicity stunt last
Saturday as five students dressed
up as pirates drove through the

streets of Halifax in a _ broken
down old car belonging to Ron
James. This was part of the ad
vertisement. program for the coming Glee Club Production, The
Pirates of (Penzance.

Using the Jolly Roger as their
Standard, the five students who
were Eric Richter, who modestly
claims to be the originator of the
idea, Bob Williams, Jim Bennet,
Ron James and Bill Strachan drove
through the main streets and down
Quinpool Road to Simpsons where
they paraded through the departments amid many mystified customers.

Waving majestically from the
heap which looked more like a discarded gasoline tank supported by
four rotten rubber bands than anything else was the Jolly Roger.

World StudentWeek
Of Prayer Service
Observed Feb. 19th

On Sunday evening last a special
university service was held in St.
Andrew’s United Church on the
occasion of the Annual World Student Week of Prayer. A large
number of Dalhousie students were
in attendance.

Speakers were Dr. Clarke who
delivered the sermon and Miss
Margaret Prang, Associate Secretary of the Student Christian
Movement of Canada. Alexander
Reid, Campus Secretary of the
S.C.M. led the service and Dr. A.
E. Kerr, President of the University led in prayer .

The theme was “The Christian
Student Task in the World Today”
and was related to students both
here and in Europe and in Asia. ~

 

NOTICE
The Cercle Francois will hold a
meeting in the Engineering Bldg.,
this evening at 8 p.m, There will
be movies and a play,

rn

 

Last evening all the members of the Maritime Rights

and CCF parties walked out of the Mock Parliament as a
‘count of votes on a Government motion was refused.

These Opposition members, who felt confident of defeat
‘ing the Government on the motion, displayed their indigna
tion by leaving after Mr. Speaker ruled that the Government
had received a majority.
The evening started in a compar-® ae Pa REC

atively peaceful manner. After a\ J . be
unior From to

question period during which the|
Be Held March 1

Opposition members shot as many
embarrassing queries as they could
The Junior Prom, a formal
dance, will take place in the Gym
think up at the Cabinet, debate

was commenced upon two Governnasium on Wednesday evening,
March 1 from nine till one. The

ment Motions.
dance will mark the first formal
to take place in the Gym in a num
The first Bill, an amendment to
the British North America Act,
was passed after both sides of the
problem had been thoroughly aired

= di ber of years.
by Government and Opposition | vad
“4 | In late January, a committee
Speakers. The Progressive Con- | , aie 2
; ‘ “i was appointed consisting of Red
servatives and the Martime Rights | _: 4
Finlay, Holly Flemming, Lucy

sed the motiorz the ground | - : pie
ioe gaye dyer werd tella fe sal Calp, Maxine Titford, Anne de
; ; y S _| Carteret, Gretchen Fraser, Barb

 

and brought forward the Compact
Theory of Government.

The next piece of legislation to
be considered was an Act to amend
the Combines Investigation Act. It
was opposed by the ProgressiveConservatives as giving too much |
power to the Cabinet Minister involved, and too little control over

 

proceedings to (Parliament. The}
CCF opposed it on the grounds!

that the Government was merely |
making legal an action that had
been illegal when committed by a
Cabinet Minister. The Maritime!
Rights objected that this legislation would vest too wide a field of
discretion in the Minister and
would allow the Government to|
conceal the results of such investi- |

Lohnes, Gibby Reid and Noel
Goodridge, to organize the affair.

with the final attempt of Vince
Allen to make a lengthy discourse
out of the eomic seript ‘Li’l Abner’
which he held in his hand.

A slight disturbance was caused
when a Government member rushed onto the floor of the House to
take his seat and the Opposition
attempted unsuccessfully to unseat
him.

After a show of hands on the
motion the Speaker ruled that the
motion had been passed, Instantly
Opposition members sprang to
their feet in protest. After a second ruling that the motion had
been passed the members of the

 

gation for an indefinite length of| Maritime Rights and CCF walked
time. ‘out of the room.
Near the close of the debate a|
iber : all Je a| . ug ;
oe er The opposition parties of the
s overn- | : :
pEeYS _ Pee ene etn Mock Parliament met in combined
ment Bill and crossed the floor of | ; j
: ‘eaucus this afternoon to decide
the House with two other members | Gi idog
aE og 2 /upon a common course of action as
to join the Opposition. The Liberals | i
: 7 a result of the outcome of last
then filibustered in an attempt to) Oe ay eric,
‘ : Ss session.
stay the vote, however, this failed! ™'®

Glee Club to Present Gilbert and
Sullivan Light Opera in Gym Thursday

BETTY LIVINGSTONE

As opening night draws near, finishing touches are being added to
the Glee Club’s polished performance ‘The (Pirates of Penzance”, With
a massed company of 106, this year’s light operatic production promises to be the best ever and is particularly appropriate at this time
Since 1950 marks the fiftieth anniversary of the death of the composer, Sir Arthur Sullivan.

In addition to such stars of proven ability as Roy DeYoung, Anne
Thexton, Stan Pearson, and Ronald Beare who established their reputations in the roles of the Bos’n and Cousin Hebe in “Pinafore”, the
Colonel in “Patience”, and Don Ottavio in “Don Giovanni” in previous
years, Dalhousians will see for the first time such talented newcomers
as Dianne Parker, Audrey Powell, Ishbel Campbell, Marnie Stevenson,
Brian Edwards, Dick Miller, and Gordon Coll. The well-known Maritime tenor Fred Inglis will be supported by a record male choral section of twenty-six.

Fresh from the success of winning the C.B.C. National Song-writing Award, Professor Harold Hamer, who has successfully produced
twelve Gilbert and Sullivan productions in the past, looks forward to
opening night with the confidence that “Pirates of Penzance” will be
one of the most successful and enjoyable performances of his career,

 

LATE FLASH

 

 
moor AMERICAS OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER
a Phone 3-7098

"Member Canadian University Press

Bik i rnin pre a week by the Students’ Council of Dalhousie
24 pinions expressed are not necessarily those of the
, Poteet For seer write Business Manager,

eats

Te Fd

Busing ae Past SOP Eayaht oa Wie Paleaene ie oa se
«OFF ice aeee= Murray fetes
EDITORIAL STAFF

{ Charles MacIntosh

| Valerie Cato

j Marj Golberg
Bruce Irwin

Don Kerr
Pat Ahern

Jim MacDonald
Ralph Medjuck

Bits AS, fee Editor
he Cer ‘Sports Reporter
| Pe ‘eature WV GIGER UAE Os. sa 5's
Bob Meinnes, Noel Goodridge, Betty Livingstone
Dan Soberman
Stu Wallace, Beatrice MacDonald

ae fagh ex
_ Cartoonists

VoL LXXXII TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1950

UNATTENDED DEBATES

At a recent debate at Dalhousie, the audience was
composed of two people. The debaters were forced to
carry on without benefit of any of the listener appreciation which so greatly adds to the quality and the reward

of their efforts.

Not for many years has so little interest been taken
in debating at Dalhousie... and for no apparent reason.
The quality of this college’ s debaters compares favourably with those of any similar institution in the country,
as evidenced by the victory of our representatives at
Osgoode Hall. Debaters here are easily accessible, and
Osgoode Hall. Debates here are easily accessible, and
bates are not, perhaps, weighty, but good debaters can
transform the most unlikely material into an evening’s
satisfying and stimulating entertainment.

Such performances will soon become extinct at Dalhousie, and the more able of our men will lose interest,
if student support continues at its present level. That
a debate at St. Dunstan’s should attract an appreciative
audience of over two hundred, while pressing affairs
here will allow only two of our students to attend one
just as good, is a very poor commentary on our support
for those phases of activity which are among the most
beneficial college life can offer.

No one will deny the valuable training given by debating. And, no doubt, training in preparation and
delivery is still afforded those who debate before an
empty room. But listener response, and a feeling therefor are among the greatest assets a debater can boast.
The two are absolute necessities to all public speakers
since, at times, they can be turned into pressures as
compelling as any arguments put forth by the speakers.
The ability to use them however, will never be developed
by those who never meet them.

It is time the great majority of Dalhousians forgot
some of their short-sighted self-interest, and paid more
attention to those things which would, in the long run,
prove of more value to themselves and their college.

Letters To The Editor

Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N. S.,
Feb, 10, 1950

this campaign will be used. Our
main obligation is felt to be towards the Czechoslovak student

The Editor in Chief, who we brought to Canada to

- Dalhousie University
Dear Sir:

I have been informed that the
present campaign for funds of the
International Students Service has
been meeting with a considerable
amount of indifference, which is to
some extent malignant and to some
extent unenlightened. As Faculty
Adviser to the Local Committee, I
feel obligated to try and remove
certain of these misconceptions
about the LS.S.

First of all I wish to state very
emphatically that the I.S.S. is NOT
a Communist organization nor is it
in any way under Communist influence. Many confuse the LS.S.
with the I.U.S. (The International
Union of Students), which has
been accused of having Communistic tendencies. The I.S8.S. has
its International Headquarters at
Geneva, not Belgrade, and does not
operate East of the Iron Curtain.
The Canadian Branch is sponsored
_ by men whose political integrity

is beyond question and the present
_ campaign on this campus has been
endorsed by the Presidents of both
- Universities and the Deans of the
_ Faculties.

| ee Secondly, there seems to be con
ee _ siderable doubt regarding the pur; ke % pe, i ees zs s oF

i
ol

@ for which the funds. ren in

i bes '
ie eer
“3

study. This student had ag brilliant war record with the Underground movement in his native
country and since the war was engaged in espionage work for the
Western Powers against the Communist Govt. of Czechoslovakia.
Originally we undertook to support
him for one year at Dalhousie
University. We think that this aid
should be continued for another
year. In addition we hope to be
able to continue assistance to deserving students from the Sterling
Area. There is also a D.P. Science
student here for whom we wish to
provide further assistance. It is
obvious that we must also make
some contribution to the National
Office. However, the greater part
of the funds will be spent here in
Halifax.

Whether a student signs over his
caution deposit or not is a matter
for him alone to decide. I trust
that in making this decision he will
not be mislead by false information
or malicious rumours. Those who
are acquainted with the purposes
of the I-'S.S. will be sufficiently
informed, if they will head the
other columns of this Gazette.

Yours truly,
M. O. MORGAN,
Faculty er = LS.S,

bh
ey i ie

Saturday, Feb. 18, 1950 — Rose
early and breakfasted upon frogs
legs, which Miss Rain Wailly, who
is a student of the new science of
Biology, had given me. They were
very excellent, but had a strong
taste of some chemical. To take
this taste out of my mouth I did
drink three flagons of cheap sack
which I had left over from the
parties my wife had held the last
week.

Still able to detect this strange
taste I decided to go to the Students’ Assembly Room and drink

cups of this new and very strong

beverage, Fivecentcoffee. I did
therefore repair thence at once and
did drink but one cup of the stuff
when I could no longer taste the
frogs’ legs; in fact I could no
longer taste at all.

While at the Assembly Room I
did meet many friends I do not see
any place except in this room.
Cabby Rush was there, watching
several of his friends playing at
the new game of cards. Apparently they could not play the game
with any decree of facility, for he
had to decide them on nearly every
move and point out to them all the
mistakes they had made.

Did also see my good friend Fistiter, who is one of our foremost
experts in the field of athletes. He
was taking time off and also advising a young damsel in the art
of the new game.

Also playing at the new game
was Dent-junk, a budding journalist and athlete. It doth seem to
me that-all the athletes spend a
great deal of time playing at
cards.

Hearing a group of scholars
speaking in discontented tones I
did go over to investigate. It doth
seem that the girls at Marmalade
Hovel are angered at the indifferent attitude displayed towards
them by the young gentlemen of
the college. Deciding upon direct
action they did all agree to invite
boys not from the college to the
Gladie Crowins Dance and not to
invite the scholars. The scholars
are, naturally, quite incensed by
this nefarious plan and are determined upon revenge of some sort
or another. However, I feel it will
come to naught, for I know all too
well the persuasive qualities of the
weaker sex.

Before leaving the Assembly
Room I did look about and reflect
how clean and neat it had been before the damsels of the college had
been permitted to enter, and did
wonder thereat.

Monday, Feb. 20 1950.—Awoke
this morning with a strange taste
in my mouth. Remembering the
frogs legs of yesterday I did drink
large quantities of that oriental
drug, Fivecentcoffee until my sense
of taste was deadened.

To the school of the Law scholars, for I did hear that. they did
have gossip. Did hear that Allfired Hairless was the only one
there who did invite to go with him
a fellow Law Scholar. I was quite
dismayed until I did learn that it
was Miss Stogie, who is quite attractive, though a Law student.

Also there was the leader of the
new political party of the Law
Scholars, Lord Missfits Patricks.

Many of the scholars arrived
late at the party and some never
did arrive, for it was held in a very
out-of-the-way place.

One who did manage to turn up,
however, was Oddfellow MacDonnie, who did dance with another’s
partner and enjoy himself more
than many others did, not feeling
gloomy as did some.

Did hear that Hide Peabush did
improve greatly his relations with
Miss Dreary Ratty. The elder
Miss McThin did also seem elated
at the Ball with her latest conquest, an Apple-Knocker. ’Tis said
that she was so pleased with him

(Continued a page three)

Picobac is Cee ee eee oc acedimeananeaeee

They’re Popular

Its not too early to arrange
for dance favors.

Be sure the famous Birks
Blue
choice.

When you’ve picked
your pipe right—pick your
tobacco right. Pick Picobac
the pick of pipe tobaccoa,

Dicobac |

Tobacco—the coolest, mildest tobacco ever grown,

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

MED
BALL

FRIDAY
MARCH 10

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

9, Prince St. - Dial 3-8539

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

Phinneys Limited

456 Barrington St.

Box encloses your

Where you will find a

Henry Birks &
Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller,
Halifax, N. S.

complete Music Service —

and the finest
A.G.S.,
Sports Equipment

 

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:

Bachelor of Nursing Science

Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of ‘Science

Diplomas in:

Hospital Pharmacy

Mining Geology

Music

Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Education
Bachelor of Music

Education
Engineering
Engineering Physics
Food Technology

The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE i tahoe OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas P
Health Nursing, Teaching and Adenine we

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 avail

are applying ot, range ate from High Schools ue
olleges o e Maritime Provinces, and d

of educational attainments. Syrenton athe Dagie

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full informa

ti
courses, residence facilities, on as to fees.

and dates of registrat ign.

aie A a d
‘ee — = —
J i . fall ,

et ae

ke %

 

ses
 
   

 
   

ny

, _ he muttered. There was no answer.
2] ie

   
   

Fi

<a tap ge

SLT he
| CAR ay ee oe on! eon an LF
ee 4. _ - ‘ten pa le a Ae |
iyi." eo ey a See ae
ei rp ~ eo oe | ‘ e 4 Ud a j ree
te r : i

oe ae. D. S.

 

cae tb 4 ©

os rsatz! Damned ersatz!” cursed Wilhelm. He spat the mouthful of coffee at the wall, and knocked over the tin cup, its muddy contents seeping into the earth. “When will we taste real food again?”
a Frederick, tired and filthy, his
tunic almost in shreds, sat opposite him in their concrete blockhouse

  

   

T-Square
The cold weather these days isn’t
preventing the boys from keeping
hot on the basketball floor, at least
not if the last two games are any
indication. Dents were downed
31-21 and the Meds fared no bet
ter in their second game this season with the Engineers, losing out

    

“| The Story of

, - r ; i: a a ‘ i - ‘i Pi
} : 5 eo A MT a F P ‘: ee ies yy Lt
ae ‘ ia cal ea ke As 4 F Wf Pate we i ds 4 p
hed ick ree ys TT Sede oy a Ge che j a,
\ _ Se

ef fe
4" ies ‘| rh ee
PMs eee NED
_ = Te fom er —

  

7

It is discovered soon after the rising of the curtain that
the festivities in progress in the pirate’s camp are in honour
of the termination of the apprenticeship of one of their number, Frederic. What is the general consternation’ when the
youth announces that he is among them through an error and
that now he is of age and free, he must leave them. Thereupon the remorseful Ruth, his one-time nurse, confesses her
responsibility in the matter; having mistaken her instructions through being hard of hearing, she had apprenticed her

The Pirates of Penzance —

 

_ Staring motionlessly at the small tin cup. Wilhelm looked out through

‘

, the narrow slit in the wall at the heaps of rubble, the burnt hulks of
|

, the ‘once glorious Reich. He felt a sudden urge to scream out, to kick

 

op pair flowed through him. He had never felt like this before; the desolation had never bothered him. Now, he could think of nothing else.

_ This was not Smolensk, where his artillery group has devasted en
_—_*

_ over the machine gun, to tear his hair; then the limp misery of des
_ tire blocks—nor was it Sebastopol, nor Dunkirk, nor Salonika. It was
Berlin. The thought of this terrible destruction of the city he loved
made hhim feel nauseous. Even his blind faith and loyalty were now

 shattered—he knew that the war was lost.

But Wilhelm was fighting for his life. When that crazy fool, Corporal Steiner, had walked into the street waving a white flag, the
Russians shot him down like a dog. Who could blame them? For the
first time human emotions were penetrating his disciplined mind—he
began to realize how those damned Russians at Smolensk must have
felt. But he knew it was too late. Now these Slavs had become. machines too, with only one thought—to destroy the Nazi in revenge.

_ “Prisoner of war” was merely a hollow joke to the Red; there was no
such thing. Wilhelm had even heard that the Americans, also, were
taking no prisoners on the other front.

In a burst of rage Wilhelm ripped the little bronze eagle from his
tunic and ground it into the earth with his heel. What fools, what
fools! Germany against the whole world and he had believed it. All
through those freezing months in the Ukraine without leave and with
meagre food rations, and*even when he had lost an eye, he had never
lost faith—one day he would be rewarded. And now he was getting
his reward. Their sector couldn’t last more than another thirty-six
hours and they had orders not to retreat. What had he done to deserve
this? He had always obeyed orders, had been a good soldier and had
fought bravely. Why should he die? He picked the little bronze eagle
out of the dirt and hurled it into the corner.

Frederick got up and stretched. He walked over to the food pack
and dug out a small tin. “Let’s eat the last can of beef now,” he suggested, “our feast,’ and he managed a half smlie. Wilhelm nodded.
Frederick jabbed his knife into the top. There was a slight hiss. He
lifted the can to his nose, then with a loud curse hurled the can cleanly
through the slit, into the street. Immediately a rifle cracked the silence and a machine gun sputtered. “Damned fools, they shoot at anythink.” Frederick sat down again and resumed his relentless gaze at
the tin cup.

For a’ long moment there was perfect silence. Then Wilhelm
tensed; his hand moved for his pistol. Slowly he edged toward the
slit—he heard a faint sound outside. Another long pause. It must
have been some falling rubble. Wilhelm relaxed slightly and was about
to turn back to his position. Then, in a flash a figure darted across

the slit—Wilhelm fired twice, but it was too late. The grenade lay
on the ground at the back of the blockhouse. The body of the Red was

_ Slumped against the opening. Wilhelm froze, then screamed in terror.
Frederick, who had been sitting dazed, cowered against the wall. Then
in peculiar revelation he seemed to admit death. A faint, bitter smile
came to his lips, his face was a sickly white. He leaped up and fell
upon the grenade to smother it. There was a blinding flash.

An eternity later Wilhelm regained consciousness. After a few
minutes the cloud slowly lifted. With an effort he raised his head from
the ground and shook it, to clear the haze. He felt his hands, his legs—
no shattered limbs. The blockhouse was filled with smoke and dust.
He could not see anything. Shakily he rose to his feet, staggering and
eoughing toward the slit for air. Wilhelm couldn’t think—he couldn’t
remember just what had happened. After a few minutes his thoughts
regained some coherence, and the jumbled puzzle formed the picture
of Frederick’s face. Then he looked down at his hands. They were
spattered with blood, Frederick’s blood. This time Wilhelm felt as
though he wanted to weep—if he knew how.

He shook his head and began to think of his situation. He realized what would happen if he remained in the blockhouse: the Russians
would soon be there, for they had carried the section. Yet to leave the
blockhouse was almost sheer suicide ... Wilhelm groped around on the
earth for his Luger, his fingers finally touching the still warm barrel.

The shuffling of approaching feet broke the silence. Wilhelm stood
listlessly in the dusty shaft of light, and gabed at the gun, The air
cleared slowly and the footsteps were very near. “To die gloriously
for the Reich!” Wilhelm half laughed under his breath, and raised the
Luger to his eyes. It was not pointed at the slit.

LL

   
 
   
   
   
     
   
       
     
 

 

ere PT A ig

 

23-17. So far the hoopsters have
chalked up the commendable record
of four wins in five starts, with the
powerful A. and S. team the only
stumbling block,

The hockey squad, which has
been hampered lately by lack of
reasonable pratice time, will go
into action next Tuesday against
Meds.

For those who feel the urge to
wield the pen to some other purpose than calculating formulas and
equations, a golden opportunity is
on the way. The “Gazette” is
planning an Engineer’s issue sometime after Munro Day, along with
issues put out by other faculties,
and contributions are needed to
make things hum.

This venture has been a success
in the past, so all would-be cartoonists, writers, poets and gagmen are asked to whip out pen and
paper, and get their offerings
either to Managing Editor Charlie MacIntosh, or to Bill Adamson.
Undeterred by the fate of the University of Alberta “Gateway”,
which got itself banned after a
somewhat over-ripe isue put out by
the Engineers there, the “Gazette”
is looking for some really good
material this year. So if it’s some
free publicity we’re after, opportunity knocks!

We note a Blood Donor Clinic is
soon to be held here on the campus. Only thing is as far as Engineers are concerned is that it will
come immediately after the Banquet, and we suspect something
more potent than mere plasma will
be piped out of any Shackster’s
veins!

LAW NOTES

The Poor Man’s Law Ball was a
great siccess. What with a good
orchestra, a good hall, and a capable committee the affair was
probably one of thé outstanding
parties of the year. Among the
guests were Mr. and Mrs. T.
Feeney, Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Lederman, and Profs. H. G. Batt and
J. H. Hendry.

The co-operation from the families out at Mulgrave Park in lending chairs, etc., to the organizers
of the party is to be commended
and the School extends its thanks.

Congratulations for the success
of the event goes to Bob Gunz
Grant, who worked all week publicising and preparing the many
little things. To Clarence MacKinnon who kindly lent his time to
standing behind the counter, serving cokes and other necessities.
To George Loukes for helping to
arrange the hall and for collecting
tickets at the door.

* x

In the sports field we came up
with one victory and one defeat.
The Law Hockey Team defeated
Shearwater in a fast, highly competitive game last Thursday, by a
score of 9-8. The score was only
9-5 until five minutes before the
end, when our boys got careless
and almost let Shearwater catch
up. The stars of the games were
Paul Lee, Ron Downee, and Al
Smith. Eric Kinsman and goaler
Bill Jordan played a good game.

ak * *

In basketball Law went down
before Arts & Science. The score
was only 10-4 at half time, our
boys then kept the game virtually
scoreless until the end. Final score
was 30-11,

The Eastern Trust Company
RELIABILITY ... INTEGRITY ... PROTECTION

For over 50 years expert administrators of
Funds, Securities and Estates

Branches in six
Eastern Provinces

HEAD OFFICE: 184 HOLLIS STREET
HALIFAX, N. S.

i
4

caAree ‘20.0, pirate. Instead of 2¢-— ee yam
Frederic declares that al-| point Frederic is surprised by the eH

pilot.
though he loves them all individuall with affection unspeakable, collectively he looks upon them with
disgust, and that now he is free he
feels bound to devote himself heart
and soul to their extermination. All
are sad and deplore the fact that
they can offer him no temptation
to remain as they do not seem able
to make piracy pay. Frederic criticizes their business methods —
they make a point, he says; of
never attacking a party weaker
than themselves and when they attack a stronger party they invariably get thrashed. Then again,
their rule of never molesting an
orphan has been noised about and
consequently everyone they capture
says he is an orphan. Ruth urges
Frederic to take her with him as
his bride, and as she is the only
woman he has ever seen since he
was eight years old and she assures him upon being questioned,
that she really is beautiful, he consents, especially as the pirates
show no disposition to retain her
services. Then appear on the
scene the numerous daughters of
Major-General Stanley, and Frederic, struck by their beauty, denounces Ruth as a deceiver and
quickly becomes involved in a love
affair with one of the sisters,
Mabel. The rest are surprised by
the pirates who seize them and
propose to marry them at once—
“We shall quickly be parsonified,
Conjugally matrimonified, By a
doctor of divinity Who is located in
this vicinity,” they sing. he military parent now appears and finding his objection to pirates as
sons-in-law overruled, seeks to win
their sympathy by pretending to be
an orphan. At the sound of the
fateful word the pirates are overcome with emotion and give up the
young ladies.

The second act discloses the General sitting in a draughty old ruin
he has purchased, with all the illustrious old ancestors thrown in.
He is a prey to remorse over his
prevarication about being an orphan and confesses as much to
Frederic, who is assembling his
trembling police to march against
the pirates. The Sergeant shows
considerable reluctance to expose
himself and his men to the risks of
battle, but is eventually persuaded
to set out on his mission. At this

Sam Peeps...
that she could not refrain from
displaying him before all her
friends and to this end caused no
little disturbance upon her arrival
at Marmalade Hovel.

’Tis said that the Marmalade
Hovel Seranade did transpire in an
unexpected fashion. Miss Wasabelle Bustle did inform everybody
at the Beef Trust that it was called off, when to the delight of all a
message was received from the
Oak Mountain Boys to come over
and sing for them. In response to
this appeal they did proceed from
the college on the Hill in a herd
and make a mooing sound like a
group of ill cattle.

Miss Bustle and Morgue Metaltown did cause great confusion
when they did give to the chaperons some weird concoction in lieu
of coffee. It doth seem that they
did overlook to make use if that
marvellous new invention, the
strainer, and did prepare the liquid
as if it were tea, to the great lessening of its quality.

vindicitive Ruth and thé Pirate
King, who inform him that they
have discovered that he was born
in leap year on the 29th of February, which makes him a little over
five years old and so not out of his
apprenticeship to piracy. They do
not mean to hold him to anything
but merely to leave it to his sense
of duty. Conscience compels Frederic to rejoin the band, duty also
forcing from him the confession
that the father of his beloved
Mabel escaped on the false plea
that he was an orphan. The Pirate King, disgusted at this deceit,
determines to attack the General’s
castle that night. When he and
Ruth are gone, Mabel enters and
Frederic explains to her his dilemma, swearing to return and
claim her when, according to leap
year reckoning, he comes of age—
some sixty years later! The police
now gather, concealing themselves
at the approach of the pirates. The
latter in turn hide as the General
enters in his dressing-gown, soon
followed by his daughters. The
pirates seize the General, who,
seizing Frederic, bids him summon
his men and capture his assailants.
The policemen now spring up but
are easily overpowered by the pirates. But when the Sergeant
charges the pirates to yield in
Queen Victoria’s name, they do so,
their loyalty transcending all other
considerations. Ruth then enters
to reveal a last secret, and discloses that the pirates are all
“Noblemen who have gonegwrong.”
This brings about a remarkable
change in the General’s attitude;
says he, “No Englishman unmoved
that statement hears, because with
all our faults we love our House
of Peters .. . Resume your ranks
and legislative duties, and take my
daughters, all of whom are beauties.” And so all ends happily.

 

The Right Smoke
at the Right Price
for Young Men

    

   

. ee,

1)
yp

y

S
SS
NJ
v
‘

TH
Ty
yp

BY

Wid
f/

AL

ii}

v

A

ak me ah el ih vi t sent
Airy i ME Oe ERS abn) Wn sll
i tke ion UT ot TAL ees eek:

~
 
 

 

 

 

ny ae Ba. te Mt. Allison 35-12;
Lose To Axettes In Final Round
my.

After a weary trip to Sackville on Friday, Dalhousie Girls’ Inter
mediate Basketball team swept to a 35-12 victory over Mount Allison.
_ The game was a crowd pleaser the whole way, with little Barb Lohnes
- constantly amazing the spectators with her easy lay up shots.
who was high scorer with a total of 13 points, played a brilliant game.

Barb,

Caroline Logan also playing a terrific game, was next in the scoring

parade, with a total of 10 points.

At one point, Caroline, while

holding the ball over head found

herself completely guarded. Calmly she did a back bend, and dropped
the ball into the waiting hands of Joanne Everett, who threw a beauti
ful basket.
Marj MacLean collected a total

of 6 points, mostly on picturesque |

long shots. Several times the
realistic “fake” shots of Dal for
wards Lohnes and Logan left them,

completely unguarded, and free to
“notch up” easy baskets.

The regular Dal guards, Pat
Ahern, Caroline Weld and Joan
McCurdy were really clicking with
rebound after rebound being quickly smothered. The game also marked the debut of Lib Clarke who
played a strong game on guard.

Near the end of the game Coach
Evans put Joan McCurdy in as forward, where she accounted for two
baskets on smart lay up shots, although one basket was later discounted,

Neither team seemed able to
make their foul shots, with only
three out of a total of 22 going in.
Pat Ahern took the brunt of most
of these fouls by standing firm and
letting the Mountie girls do their
bit of charging.

High scorer for Mount A. was
Baker who accounted for 8 points.
Joan McLaggan also turned in a
nice game.

In the second game, played on
Saturday, Acadia Axettes trounced
the Dalhousie girls by the overwhelming score of 24-5. This was
a sad case of full stomachs and
sleepy heads for the Dal girls. The
soft beds and the excellent food
was just too much for them and
they played a game that was a
little below par. After the game
there were numerous resolutions to
get up at six o’clock the next time
they play a game early in the day,
and never again will they consume
quantities of Chicken a la King and
mince pie.

Saturday’s game showed few
traces of the “red-hot” team that
swamped Mount A. Shot after shot
went up but just couldn’t find their
way into the hoop. Marj McLean
was high scorer for Dal with four
points. A total of 22 fouls were
called in this game, 12 against Dal
and 10 against Acadia.

go. C.

 

NOTICE

There will be a D.G.A.C. Interclass Swimming meet at Stadacona
pool on Thursday from 4.30 to 5.30.
A large turnout is requested.

 

 

oe

NOTICES

‘On next Monday evening, Feb.
27, the annual university boxing
championships will be run off with
all of the Bengal glove-swingers
seeing action. ‘These bouts are always one of the highlights of the
Interfac season, and this year
promise to be better than ever.
The Tigers have great hopes of
winning the Maritime crown in the
Intercollegiate meet held this year
at Fredericton, and this will be the
Last set of warm-up bouts

Some of the outstanding professional boxers in the vicinity will
also see action in exhibition bouts.

 

 

i, As t ey Lhd Moe ee a Perey tid

“DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

       

f Ly, pee f yl € . a , “ Ff { j
<t. l eAe — ; _ =i i ol
r 7 hts 3\1 he * i ;
Pup 4 nN e * ,
Riis any - Yan |
a
Ll ‘| nts ey 7
i MYM an ete Te

Tigers Take oad Ne Intercollegiate
Competition With Third Straight Win

On Saturday evening at the

Dal Gym. the high-flying Tigers

swamped the Acadia Axemen by a 62-30 count in the roughest hoop
game seen on the local courts this season. Referees “Peaches” Ruven
and Ed Alan called a total of 53 personal fouls, a near record for these

parts, and the large crowd booed the officials almost continually,

On

three occasions the referees were in complete disagreement when calling fouls, and compromised with double fouls.

The game has been protested by Mr. George Geary, the Acadia
coach, on the grounds that the referees for the contest were changed

without informing him.

As a mattr of fact, none of the officials of

either university knew of the change, which was ordered by the league

executive.

 

Pictured above are the Dal Tigers of the Intercollegiate Hockey League. From left to right, ‘buck row:
Assistant Manager Blair Hinton, Murray Malloy, “Red” White, Bill MacQuarrie, Captain Jamie Anglin,
Martin Ellis, Roddy Morrison, Johnny Williston, Manager Bob McInnes, and Coach Knobby Carleton.

Front Row: Bil MacKenna, Dave Jardine, George Mattison, Goalie Bill Janes,

Jack Smith, and Bob Kennedy.

The Bengals have yet to win a game in Intercollegiate competition this season,
with every game. On March 4 the Tigers head for Antigonish for their second game with the X-Men,
and their final game of the season.

Ernie Frederickson,

 

GIRLS VARSITY CAGERS TRIUMPH IN
EXHIBITION ENCOUNTER WITH X-GALS

The Girls’ Varsity basketball
team romped to a 35-16 victory
over St. F.X. Co-Eds last Saturday night in an exhibition tilt
played at the Dal Gym. The
X-Girls had previously beaten the
Convent of the Sacred Heart Girls
in an afternoon game.

The first quarter opened with
the St. F.X. girls in center, and on
the first play Lorraine Renault of
the visitors picked up a quick two
points for the Antigonish aggregation. Dal’s “Foo” Grant, working
well in with Betty Cousins and Gay
Esdale, tied it up for the Dalhousians a minute later as she sank a
nice basket from well out. Dal’s
superiority became apparent early
in the game, but the local forwards
missed the majority of their shots
in the first quarter. The second

| quarter was Dal’s all the way, with

the Tigresses out-scoring the
X-Girls 11-2. . The first half ended
with the locals out in front by a
17-4 margin,

WANTED

. ». to make himself a small fortune! next fall

 

... Within two months; part time;

.+.- On a fireball idea that'll sky-rocket the old Whoopde-doo at the Alma Mater to dizzing heights!

INCREDIBLE? . .

. You’re right!

But it actually happened on the McGill Campus last fall

in one month.

Is this idea still hot?—You bet! and if

you're a keen operator, you'll phone, wire, send smoke
signals, or write to: Eric Cloutier, 3637 University

Street, Montreal, P.Q.

 

Co-Coaches Andy MacKay and
“Arp” Robertson changed the forward lines several times in the
third quarter with good results
showing from both. Jerry Grant
played a stellar game for the
Tigresses, and Laura Roy stood out
for the Antigonish girls.

Dal Hoopsters
Lose To Q.E.H.

The up and coming Dal Juniors
went down to defeat at the hands
of a power-packed Q.E.H. team
63-50, last Sat. night at the Dal
Gym. The game was closely contested throughout, with neither
team piling up an impressive lead.
The high school boys were successful in controlling the backboards
and made good use of their height
advantage. MacDonald was outstanding for Queen Elizabeth
throughout the game, especially
during the first half when he hit
the basket for 14 points. Clancy
and D. MeCurdy shone for the
Tigers with 6 and 7 points respec
tively. Q.E.H. led at half time
30-24.
Dalhousie opened the _ second

half with a terrific scoring drive,
and sparked by Garson, Clancy and
Dave McCurdy «they quickly tied
the game up and piled up a six
point lead. The Elizabethan’s were
too aggressive however and sparked by Walker and MacDonald they
evened the score and built up a
lead which they held until the final
buzzer. The final score was 63-50
for Q.E.H.S. MacDonald was high
man and individual star of the evening; accumulating a total of 26
points. Clancy and McCurdy
shone for the Tigers with 17 and
14 points each.

Ed Alan refereed the game and
called a total of 32 fouls,
them on the Dal team.

18 of |

High scorer for the evening was
Marilyn MacIntyre of the Black
and Gold with 16 points, followed
by “Cuz” Cousins with 10 tallies
and Lorraine Renault of the visitors with 8. During the second half
the Xaverians played a much better game and Dal only outscored
them 18-12 in this period. The
final score was 35-16 in favor of
| the Dalhousians,

The girls head for Mt. A this
Saturday to play the Allisonian
girls for the Maritime Intercollegiate title.

OXFORD

Tues. - Wed.

“IN THE GOOD OLD
SUMMERTIME”
and
“PICADILLY INCIDENT”

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.
“TULSA”
and
“STORMY WEATHER”

WATCH FOR: “PAISAN”

 

    

CASINO

Now Showing

“BAGDAD”

in TECHNICOLOR

starring

Maureen O’Hara
Vincent Price
Paul Christian

but are improving

 

> ——? The win puts the Bengals in top
|

spot in the three team league with
three straight wins. St. FLX. is in
the runner-up spot with a win and
a loss ,and the Axemen trail the
league with three losses, two of
them to Dal. The Tigers journey
to Antigonish on March 4, for their
return engagement with the
Xaverians. If the X-Men beat the
Tigers and also take another decision from Acadia, a sudden death
play-off will be scheduled for a
neutral floor.

The first half of the game was
very slowly played. At the oneminute mark “Red” Findlay sank a
pivot shot to open the scoring.
Seotty Henderson sank several
| long set shots and at the half the
Tigers had the edge on a 20-16
score,

 

During the second half the Bengals came to life with a-bang and
racked up 14 points in the first six
minutes, Showing the form that
won them the Halifax Intermediate
League title, the Tigers, led by
“Sharpy Arpy” Robertson, stormed
the Apple-Knockers citadel with
lay-up shots, while the Axemen
were forced to rely on set shots

 

 

from outside.

Coach Gabriel Vitalone put on
the Dal second team for the remainder of the contest, and the
Juniors, especially Dave McCurdy,
put up a great show, outscoring
what remained of the Acadia team.

Big man for the Black and Gold
was Scotty Henderson who abandoned his deadly set-shot in the
second half and came inside for
several nice baskets. Scott racked up a total of 16 points during
the evening, but the shining light
as far as the Dal supporters were
concerned was “Arp” Robertson,
who turned in his best game of the
season for the Tigers, tallying 11

points. Mahon with 9, and McCoy
with 8 points, also played good
games.

“Foo” MePherson, although he
only scored one point, was ’the
spearhead of the Acadia drive, and
Wickwire with 9 tallies led the
Valley scorers.

vs

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

+.

 
