  

   

 

———

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

    
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
     
    
   
   
   
  
 
      
    
  
    

  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
    
   

a
aS

year exam.
emphasized, however,

_ students at Mid-years.

AT HOME—President and Mrs. Kerr were at Home to new stu
dents in the various faculties last Saturday afternoon.

Above, Rusty

Milne, Freshman representative, converses with Colonel Laurie, Chair
man of the Board of Governors.
and Mrs. Milne.

Seated, Betty Petrie, Mrs. Laurie

Law Society Meeting Held to Decide
On Debating Manager, Law Reporter

Acadia to Abolish
Exams at Mid-Year

Mid-year examinations have been
eliminated in a sweeping move by
the Administration which changes
practically the whole structure of
examination regulations. Finals in
May will see students writing papers on the full year’s work of continuing courses. Half-year course
finals will be written after Christmas during a brief period coinciding with that of the previous setup.

The new regulations call for a
one-hour class test which will in
part take the place of the old midOfficial statements
that the
tests would not enable students to
receive credit for the section of the
course completed. Credit for the
full course would be given on its
completion in the Spring.

‘President Kirkconnell stated that
several schemes along this line had

been attempted at other institu
tions and as yet none, including
Aeadia, has been able to achieve a
perfect set-up. One of the chief
obstacles the Administration has to
face is that concerning dismissal of
The new
_ regulations would allow no defin~ ite basis for such action.

_ The shortened exam period after
istmas will enable students to
register earlier for second term
_ courses and will also bring Convopee at an earlier date than last

 

 

The second meeting of the Dalhousie Law Society was held last
Friday noon in the Munro Room of
the Forrest Building. Slim Chisolm, President of the Society, ealled the meeting to order and Stu
Wallace gave the committee report
on the plans for the Law Ball. The
Ball will be held on the evening of
November 4 at the Nova Scotian
Hotel. Tickets are now available
to students in the Faculty of Law
and will be sold on Studley next
week,

Following a discussion of the
committee’s report George Loukes
resigned his position as Law Debating Manager and a new election
for this post was held. Ian Robertson was elected.

Alfred Harris was then elected
to the post of Law reporter to the
Gazette.

The question of what kind of
extra-curricular activities the Society will encourage this year was
hotly debated and it was finally decided to form a committee of those
of the various points of view on
the subject, namely, George
Loukes, Bob Grant and Alf Harris.

The executive announced that
the Procedure 2 notes were available. A vote of thanks was extended to the President of the

Society, Slim Chisolm, for the
work he did in publishing the
notes.

 

Co-vette Notice

The Dalhousie Co-vettes Society
will hold a meeting on Tuesday,
October 25 at 8 p.m. in the Engineering Common Room, A film
will be shown of the Red Cross

Blood Donor Clinie in action.

HALIFAX, N. S., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949

ternational

 

yrs
i a ? = a

nous ¢ GAZETTE

America’s Oldest College Paper

OP NING BASKETBALL GAME

—_—

 

Basketball
Thursday
7:30
in

Gym.

     

 

Pe

 

Cost to Bo Split Between University and
Students’ Council for Installation of New
Bleachers to Seat Nearly Six Hundred

Gazette Notice

All members of the Gazette
staff are asked to attend a meeting in the Gazette office at two
o'clock on Thursday afternoon,
October 27th. All reporters and
other personnel of the staff are
requested to be present as the
nature of the business is extremely important.

ISS to Hold Meeting
Approve Delegates

An open meeting of the LS.S.
Committee of Dalhousie will be
held in the basement of the Arts
Building at 12:00 on Thursday 27.
At this meeting the delegates
chosen by the Committee to attend
the I.S.S. Conference at Montreal
November 11, 12, 13 will be presented for the approval of the Student Body. The delegates chosen
by the Committee are Faculty Advisor M. O. Morgan and Joe Levison, Chairman of the Dal Committee.

The purpose of this meeting is to
keep students informed of the latest developments of the I.S.S. and
to allow the Committee to accept
suggestions from the Student Body.
All students on the Campus are
automatically members of the InStudent Service and
should therefore attend this important meeting at which the policies to be followed by the Dalhousie delegation of the I.S.S. at
the coming Conference at Montreal willbe, in part formulted.

Winners 6 Wings Club
Scholarships Published

In 1945 the Wings Club Scholarship Fund was established. With
the awarding of the scholarships of
$100 each for the 1949-50 year the
funds will have been expended.

Those who received scholarships
this year are:—S. J. Baxter; A, D.

Bona; G. W. Caldwell; R. Epstein;
J. E. Feener; F. F. Gallant; A. B.
Gingley; J. W. Hatherly; C. K.
Hoyt; A. D. Hudson; L. C. Johnston; J. A. Kane; G. C. Louckes;
S. G. McCurdy; W. C. Mathews;
S. B. Milne; I. R. Robertson; D. G.
Smith; 0. J. Trey M. G. Worthylake.

her ae se 4
Ls ee a eo iiddebar, i pa ee ak")

Within a week bleachers capable of seating approximate
ly six hundred spectators
Gymnasium.

Half the cost of these bleachers will be borne |

Students’ Council.

The idea of having bleachers

Cormack in 1947.

will be installed in the Dalhousie

IV the

originated with John Me
Last year plans were formulated by Pro
fessor Theakston to make the idea an actuality.

 

Alumni Smoker to Be
Wednesday Evening

An Alumni Smoker for all male
students of the University will be
held in the Dalhousie Gymnasium
at 8 o’clock on Wednesday, November 2, 1949.

A varied program of entertainment will be presented featuring
numbers by the Dalhousie Band
and selections on the piano accordian by Miss Lila Treadwell. There
will also be a skit by a group of
Alumni Thespians.

Each student will be given a
ticket upon presentation of his
Student Council Card at the door
of the Gymnasium.

ISS to Sponsor Dance
On Eve of Acadia Trip

On the eve of the Acadia Trip
the International Students Service
are sponsoring a dance. The dance
which is to be held in the Gymnaslum from nine o’clock to one on
Friday Night will feature Fred
Covey’s Orchestra, aided and
abetted by the Phi Rho Quartette
and Bob McDougall.

Joe Levison, Chairman of the
LS.S., has announced ‘that aty aes

 

The bleachers are being built by
the Richards Wilcox Company of
London, Ontario, who have sent
two men to supervise their installation. The University has agreed
to bear half the expensé while the

Students Council will pay the
other half.

The bleachers will be built in
four sections. On the South side
will be two divisions, one forty
three feet long, the other thirtyeight feet. On the other side they
will be forty feet and thirty-eight
feet. Each will have five rows of
Seats, giving a total of five hundred and ninety-seven
seating. Allowing sixteen

per person, five hundred
ninety-seven spectators could
comfortably seated

The bleachers can be
when not in use. They will then
extend out from the wall two feet
and three and one half inches.

The badminton courts have had
to be relined since the bleachers
interfere with the outside boundaries. There are four double
courts and two single courts in the
center.

cent of the proceeds will go to the
Community Chest as their effort in

for
inches
and

be

feet

folded up

now

the local Red Feather Campaign.
|The other fifty will go to the
treasury of the I.S.S. Admission

‘ad be $1.25.

Justice Read Delivers First ol ive
Lectures to Students at Law School

Mr. Justice John E. Read of the
International Court of Justice, and
a former Dean of the Dalhousie
Law School, delivered the first of a
series of five special lectures to a
capacity audience of Dalhousie students yesterday at 12 noon.

Throughout the week Justice
Read will lecture on the Family of
Nations and on the international
situation in the years prior to the
outbreak of the Second World War,

Dr. Alexander E. Kerr, president
of Dalhousie University,
ed Mr. Justice John Read and emphasized the importance of International Law
remarks.

Justice Read explained that there
were three kinds of law, manners,
moral law, and Law proper. He
explained that the Law has re
introduce- |
‘ginning

; aren | logic; when Austin was living most
in his introductory

sisted definition because it is only
possible to define that which has
limits and the Law is neither finite or immutable. If the Law were
finite it would be unable to operate and Revolution would result, he
explained, and if it were more indefinite there would be chaos.
Justice Read went on to tell of

‘the work of John Austin who was

the first to défine SovHe told how John Austin’s theories influenced international relations for the last 150
years but how people were now beto look behind Austin’s

one of
ereignty.

of the law was statute law, but

 

\that has changed.
concluded,

Therefore, he
Austin may have been
mistaken when he claimed that international law was not law at all
but “International Morality”.

  

  
   
   
   
   

 

 
2 lished twice a bel by the Students’ Council of
housie | ‘University. Opinions expressed are not

essarily those of the Students’ Council. For subtions write, Business Manager, Dalhousie Gazette,

Pins Pg _.--s Eitors-in-Chief
oh D LAMPERT BRUCE LOCKWOOD
ay Business Manager.
ALFRED HARRIS
Page Editors
Sports
JOE LEVISON
BOB WOLMAN
Features
BRUCE IRWIN
_ Photographers
ERIC RICHTER

MARG GOLDBURGH

ate DAN SOBERMAN BOB WOLMAN

th ope - Reporters
pie _ BRUCE IRWIN £-PATSY AHERN JOHN ROBERTS
BOB MeINNIS NOEL GOODRIDGE BARBARA McGEOUGH
: a ee MACDONALD BETTY LIVINGSTONE
mat Cartoonist
BEATRICE MACDONALD
_ Re-write
- LUCY CALP
Proof Readers
GLORIA HORNE —-RONA YESS

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1949 No. 6

a ‘ON INHERENT CONTRADICTIONS

What logicians term “an inherent contradiction” seems

' to be rapidly embedding itself in the policies of our “good

a4. neighbours” to the south.

‘On the one hand pious speeches condemning “thought

control” and on the other hand not-so-pious actions simula
ting the condemned actions are beginning to make those
Americans who think disgusted and beginning to make those

| a who do not think—and they are always in the majority — so

Ree fe
et

oa

Ff . a

= re

t i.

att confused that they are quite unable to decide what is worthy
Be of ‘praise and what of blame.

- While is must be admitted that “thought control” 4s impossible, control of the exchange of thoughts is both possible
_ and practiced.

It seems, however, that when students get together to
discuss Marx they are immediately suspected of stashing
bren guns and small bombs under their beds to await the
time of the revolution. In fact, the theory of dialectical

pe “4 materialism maintains that the or der of the universe is. such

and then, suddenly becomes steam.
_. tained, changes in exactly the same way.

that change is brought about by a series of small actions
which lead to a sudden violent change. A case in point is the
boiling of water where the water becomes hotter and hotter
Society, Marx mainIt is difficult to

see where guns and bombs enter into the theory.

| ~ martyrs of Communists?

Marx, however, has become inseparably associated in the
foe of people today with the applications of his theory by
Lenin and Stalin. It does not follow that the same pattern
must occur whenever the theory is applied.

While there is probably some justification for the con- demnation of conditions behind the so-called “iron curtain,”
the fact that control of thought exchange is practiced somewhere else is surely no justiffcation for its practice at home.

Latest contmbution to the inherent contfadiction is
action of two eastern U.S. colleges in suspending “Karl Marx
Societies.” In most universities Karl Marx, as a philosopher
and an economist, has a very distinct place in the curriculum.
At UBC the problems raised in the theory of dialectical
materialism are discussed in several philosophy courses. In
fact the philosophy student who had not given some thought
to the question would\be extremely hard to find.

Even if the students in those two eastern colleges had
resolved to repeat, in their entirety, the actions of Lenin and
Stalin, it is difficult to reconcile their suspensions with the
‘commonly accepted conceptions of democracy—unless, that
is, one regards democracy as essentially capitalistic in|®
nature.

But suppose that one did conceive democracy as being
linked with capitalism. Would it be of any avail to make
Has history shown the making of
martyrs to be profitable to the makers—or to the martyr ed?

~ Most often the Martyred have profited.

f then, the suppression of Communists is going to benefit the Communists more than the suppressors, some other
course of action would seem to be indicated. The only course
of action possible is to attempt to show that capitalism is
essentially better than Communism.

BASKETBALL AND BLEACHERS

Yesterday new basketball stands were installed in the
Gymnasium. For the first time adequate provision has been
made for spectators at Dalhousie’s basketball games.

- These new stands were obtained at a cost of. approxi
mately six thousand dollars. To assist the Council in paying
off this debt, which must be done within three years, it was
agreed to charge a token fee of ten cents per student. Such
a sum is negligible when compared with charges made to

_ witness other forms of sport, and yet basketball is one of

the two major sports at Dalhousie.

With Canadian football, basketball should enjoy the full
support of the students, especially since this year’s team

shows such definite promise of league supremacy, with a

: . “Masitine 5 of ee from the team which went into the

| Herkishimer Z

Sunday, October 23 (Lord’s Day)
Up early, and to the Wets and
Swimmers Church, -where I did
hear a most enlightening sermon.
Most glad to see there Argo
Drawee, whose soul is in need of
such cleansing thoughts, were
ever a soul in need. This same
Drawee, in company with one
Z. Wickeder, did compose a anette song to be sung
by the scholars of Studlee, and
both ‘are now in great need of repentance.

Leaving the bai’ I did walk
in company with Drawee to Stud
‘lee, where I was much pleased to

see the construction of a new
building in progress. But beside it
was a new, walk, on which I
stumbled, the steps being narrower
than man was ever intended to
walk upon. Here I wrenched my
back, and am resolved to write a
letter to the Editor of The Spectator (early edition) in order that
all others may escape my fate.

Feeling much in need of refreshment, to the establshment of the
Sour brothers, who are still vending the beverage called tencentcoffee. They have added an innovation to their sale of this beverage

. I did find a charge of five cents
on my bill for the use of a spoon
in the tencentcoffee. They are
most sly in their quest for an honest dollar, I think!

Then home to my wife, who has
told me that I must spend every
Lord’s Day with her, and later to
bed with a headache.

Monday, October 24, Praise God,
I am a free man, again, and can
come and go as I please. First to
the college on. the hill, where I did
find great preparations under way.
The scholars are soon to joust with
a group of rascals who go by the
name of “Appleknockers”, and are
much excited. Under the able
guidance of one Lightert, who is
always excited, they do intend first
to travel to the homes of these
“Appleknockers”, where they will
apply a concoction called “Warpaint” and go into action. Feeling
my duty to my wife, as I do intend
to travel with the scholars to witness the event, I returned home to
ask that she come with me, but she
declined, much to my relief. I am
told the “Appleknockers” can provide fine feminine company, and I
am tired of my wife, anyway.

Setting out from home again,
with a much lighter heart, to the
place where the legal scholars
gather, where I did find a meeting
in progress, under the guidance of
Shoulders Cherhome, a man of
great invention and ingeneuity. I
am told he is about to invent the
railroad, At the meet, he did attempt to put into office a great
companion, Hander, by name. He
did accomplish his trickery by
erasing the name of Hander’s opponent, but some assembled there
were even more ingenious than
Cherhome.

The meeting over, I did fall into
the company of a certain Ol Bac
I chusacks, who is a leader among

the legal scholars. He did conduct
me to gambling den near Studlee,
wherein he is earning money for
the support of his dear old grandmother in a card game, which
affects to imitate the sport of
Kings. Having lost my allowance
for the week to that knave Bacchusacks, to home with an empty
purse and stomach.

Tuesday, October 25. Arose hurriedly, having overslept, and wishing to be in time for a tea at
Marmalade Hovel, which is an institution on Studlee. There I did

meet one Confessor Graypork, and

fell into discussion with him con(Continued on Page Three)

When you’ve picked
your pipe right—pick your
tobacco right. Pick Picobac
the pick of pipe tobaccos.

Dicobae

Picobac is Burley Tobacco—the coolest, mildest tobacco ever grown

Say SCHWARTZ
and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and.be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Degree Courses In
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, Mining, Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering
%

Apply for Calendar
Dr. Alan E. Cameron, President

 

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY —

Halifax, Nova Scotia

THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES
Degrees of:

Bachelor of Nursing Science

Bachelor of Science

Master of Arts

Master of Science

Diplomas in:

Hospital Pharmacy

Mining Geology

Music

Pharmacy

PRE-PROFESSIONAL COURSES REQUISITE
for Law, Medicine and Dentistry

Bachelor
Bachelor
Bachelor
Bachelor

of Arts
of Commerce
of Education
of Musie

Education
Engineering
Engineering Physics
Food Technology

The Faculty of Graduate Studies Offering Master’s Degrees
in Many Departments

THE FACULTY OF LAW, granting the degree of LL.B.
THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE, granting the degree of M.D..

M.
THE FACULTY OF DENTISTRY, granting the degree of D.D.S.

The School of Graduate Nursing, granting diplomas in Public
Health Nursing, Teaching and Administration

ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIPS

Scholarships, each of a minimum value of $600.00 available to
students applying for admission from High Schools or Junior
Colleges of the Maritime Provinces, and awarded on the basis
of educational attainments.

WRITE TO THE REGISTRAR for full information as to fees.
courses, residence facilities, and dates of registration.

 
 
  

     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

    
   

e hall was a small group o
ans and Britishers. Near
where the tables had

   
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
 
 
 

wert ne wits over f eeee

 

ad ar Magid be hoard in broken
iglish explaining to a groups of
es the > theme of his thesis for

     
   
   
  
 
 

| tte discussion groups hun
ued unl but above all these

* ioe ene: chorus of the German
song “Faria, Faria”.

ba’ HON,
i a * * *

as Tt was the second evening...
ne evening of the first social. A
ne German student sat beside a Dutch

bad girla— girl who had her brother
go to German labour camp and

  

_ never ‘return, whose Mother had}

been forced to go underground because of some unfavourable non-aryan strain in her blood and
whose ‘Father had been at various
occasions summoned by the Green
ie Police. |

iat \ re!
ie Bee hate toward these Germans
was natural . _ her difficulty now
; in trying to ‘associate with them
seemed almost an insurmountable
task. To have to face these students, to eat with them, to discuss
with them and even to share a
room with them, to try to put
_aside past “experiences, knowing
a that these very students had been
7 a the ‘Luftwaffe or SS and had
a perhaps even had a hand in_the
bombing of her hometown, seemed

at first impossible.

_ The German too, had a problem.
a What ‘attitude should he adopt? |
What position could he take as a
_ member of a defeated nation, as a
# member of the German people
, and as an ex-member of a U-boat
i crew that had had a hand in the
| . sinking of a British troop ship?
‘There was the Danish lad and the
- Norwegian \group who had known
i occupation forces and _ loathed
them — with every right. There
° “was the French student who had
witnessed SS gentlemen cockily
7 stand under the Arch of Triumph
in Paris and there were the
“Limeys” who remember only too
well spending nights in the air
f yaid shelters and days at the factories. There were war veterans
~ both British and Canadian whose

A
fe

» memories of prisoner of war camps}

and all its cruelties have not yet
~ faded. There were others who had
“ y rent friends and loved ones in
- fighting and through executions.

; Now all these students were
va brought together. They had come
-- from the -Scandanavian peninsula
and from the warm Mediteranean,
from Canada and Dutch Indonesia,
- from DP camps, from a country
now behind the Iron Curtain and
y a Germany. They were all
brought together for a period of
five weeks not only for the purpose
B + of exchanging and comparing
j views and ideas but also and perhaps more fundamentally to weak
en and break down those barriers

of hate which have been in the
ee for many generations.

i ~The German and Dutch student

sat together . . . finally they spoke.

At first the walt on both sides

* was strong, each regarded the
other somewhat suspiciously. Yet
after a certain time this hatred
and suspicion was overcome and

__ they found that their differences
s™ were transcended by a common

im to understand and work tope gether toward an end worthwhile.
Certainly our group of Germans
se were for the most part active in

— Nazi movements before and during |
a e war. Several of them had been |
Ie ae of the Hitler youth, some |
had bée n in Occupation Force right

in Holla , others had been
ne - Russian prison eae To

  

   
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
    
    

 

oF Beh saat
BD eee, Ae

   

at Breda 8 aa aut Se ee beautiful campus, and dignified
1e re sin g songs unfamiliar to us and only

did we realize that they were in German. They
an students. All the students about the piano
ANS. They were singing their songs, German

‘adi =e

mar ait of the large lec-@

“Dalhusie must seem very different from Toronto”, you say.
You can be rightly proud of your

    
   

buildings. Your lawn is a gracious sweep of green, not a clutter
of soccer fields and parking areas.
You are not confronted with starkly modern science buildings cheek
by jowl with an elaborate Norman
castle. :

“Toronto is so big! Didn’t you
feel lost?” Our own faculty or
college within the University was
our territory pretty well from initiation to graduation. College initiation might mean wearing Victoria College colours, or being
wound in every kind of bandage
the medical sophomores could devise. There was the occasional
frosh party, but never the wild and
wonderful whirl of initiation week
here. Everyone went to the college
parties, sipping tea at Saint
Hilda’s or mobbing the local burlesque house to hear the Engineers
election results announced from the
stage. Generally you presented
your physics professor with a
bubble pipe and your biology professor with a brace of rabbits, and
wound up the evening by rendering, fortissimo, the college yells

Toronto’s theatre, swimming
pools and symphony orchestra are
simply signs of a bigger University with many actors, athletes and
musicians. For its size, Dalhousie
has more people in the University
doings than Toronto ever had.
There the actors were found only
on stage, and the badminton team
only on the courts, so that each became an isolated clique. Here, I
dare say, many a second flute has
turned out for practice only to be
fast-talked into a game of basketball.

I welcome the chance, here to sit
and talk. At Toronto, you can gossip for a minute, shifting from
foot to foot in the main hall of
University College. Here you can
loaf at the gym and watch the
University pass before you. The
fellows with bathing suits and purple faces are the basketball team.
A defeated’soul cursing his flashbulbs works with the “Gazette”. At
Toronto, they would be speeding off
in all directions but here they will
stop for a spot of chit-chat.

You ask if I find it different.
Some things I miss and some

  

—_—- 
  
     
    
 
   
  
   

   
 
 

shall never Reaite t . nor shall we
ever have proof as to how far deNazified they are at present. But
what we do know from what we
ourselves saw was the co-operation
by each and everyone of them in
all phases of the Seminar... A
willingness to try to look at the
world with a new perspective and
to try to interpret the events of
the past, in a light unknown to
them until now, and furthermore
to take a hand and share with all
of us the responsibilities which
may lie ahead.

      
  
  
    
   
    
 

 

  

  
  
   
  

* * *

This night the “Faria, Faria”
was perhaps not ‘as well sung as
it had been the previous night.
Some of the notes were flat and
the words weren’t as clear, it was
easy to distinguish among _ the

erman faint traces of Danish and
French accents, as well as Finnish,
Italian, Dutch and English acCONES, ASP WEN OS. ta vs aliesie ee oss
cents; but the group around the
piano, arms linked had come to
embrace not merely one delegation
but the entire Seminar group.

         
     
       
     
   
         
        
      
   
     
    
     
      
     
       
       
   

he

Sam Peeps-
(Continued from Page Two)

cerning the various methods of
running such places. He did tell
me that_in the colonies, on a recent
visit, he came upon a quaint aboriginal custom. It seems that
males are allowed to enter the inmates’ rooms, provided the beds
have been removed. Upon hearing
this, a certain Miss Cutit, who

was present with us at the time,
commented “How inconvenient”,
and: fell to laughing, and so did
we all.

    
      
   
       
       
     
   
     

Thence, home early, where I
considered the merits of such a
practice in Dullhousie, but decided
it impractical. And so to bed.

       
   
     

things I prefer here, but just as at
Toronto, I find at Dalhousie, the
good times, the University spirit,
and the friends that make you a
part of University.

eT

 

Come on Students

Ride In The Best
3-S TAXI SERVICE

Phone *» Phone
3-7188 3-7188

 
       
     
     
         
         
       
     
     
     
       
     
       
       
     
   
   
 
   
     
    
   

Class Jewellery

Its not too early to plan the
class order of rings and pins.

LARGEST FLEET IN TOWN

 

Birks Contract Department
will be glad to assist with designs and special prices for
group orders.

 

Compliments of

JOE and TOM .
Diana Sweets Henry Birks &
Tea Room Sons Limited

Registered Jeweller, A.G.S.

Halifax, N. S.

The students recreation centre

 

On Monday, October 3 Ist, 1949

~

Oxford Theatre

will present the Halifax premier of the first of
many outstanding and unusual motion pictures
for adult theatre goers.

      
   
     
       
     
      
   
 

  
    
  
  

These pictures have been chosen for their excellence, intelligent production, direction and story
and are a selective group of the great current
successes across America.

   
  

 
  
 
  
  
   

  
 
  
  
   
   

The first outstanding film to start the new
_ Oxford Policy is entitled “PORTRAIT FROM
LIFE”, It is in our opinion, a picture worthy of
selection as the attraction to introduce the Oxford
to many new patrons. 
SUK Tosonsiten: Sees Ball

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

 

ay a friend of mine was speaking of an article in
Maclean’s Magazine about the extremes in lying that the two
Toronto papers, The Star and The Telegram, attained during the
recent federal elections. The fight between the two papers became
a national scandal and hit a new low in journalism. Our friend
commented that it is debatable whether this situation is more
dangerous than the one, now existing here, in Halifax, where one
paper has purchased the other to create a monopoly.

With no competing paper,
secondary importance to that of increasing circulation, and holding it.
A person of even the minimum of perspicacity who has read The
Halifax Mail-Star, during the last six months can see their pussyfooting, offend-no-one perspective to provincial, if not national affairs.
A newspaper should be like a person, it should have a mind and it
should have a soul—the Halifax papers have neither. They refuse to
take a stand on anything of any import—it might lose subscriptions.

However, since Stalin turned from a good guy into a bad guy,
there is one thing certain—they are against communism, but definitely. Red communism is to the Daily Monopoly like a red flag to
a bull—almost. The editorial columns came bravely to the fore,
last winter, and fixed some insignificant B.C. law student up good,
when he said he was a communist. A little later, after this monumental defence of democracy a strange thing happened. It came to
pass that there was a strike, on the east coast, between the S.I.U.
and the C.S.U., the latter being, patently, a communist-led union.

These courageous heralds came out breathing fire in defence of
democratic principles. Did they? Like Hell they did. The voice of
right became strangely tongue-tied while an undeclared war made the
Halifax dock-front ‘into a No-man’s Land, with the Monopolies’ photographers and reporters scurrying for cover under hails of buckshot.
The editorial columns forgot all about the skirmishes and put it off
as a group of Chinese celebrating the advent of the Year of the Rat.
There was a brief admonishment against violence, but then, all those
being subjected to violence are against it.

Don’t think that the editorial colmuns don’t bring to public
attention anything important because they don’t, but we hear all
about the lack of accidents in Peoria, and the sparsity of snow in
Oshkosh, which, of course, are very important in their own ways,
especially to the inhabitants of those distant places. Take for
example the issue on or about Thanksgiving Day.

Here, there was a piece of casuistry about hitch-hiking. We are
with the Monopoly against hitch-hiking, because, if it were prohibited,
we would not be bothered by a horde of visiting, hungry relatives.
Everytime Uncle Louis takes a long trip, he gets a sore thumb.
Also, there was an epitome of the evils of homework. Children should
not do their homework, the monopoly declared (they might grow up
to be bank presidents and oppress the workers). It might be suggested
that they should listen to the children’s programmes, read minors’
periodicals and write compositions on the best way to disembowel
policemen. More people around the Monopoly should have done their
homework.

It is a pity, with the expert reporters and the fine writers that
the two papers have, that they pursue this weak-kneed editorial
policy. We wonder if the staff approve. All we readers hope that

they give up this useless ares of Al Capp and Chie TOURS

~ What Has
THE COTC
to Offer You?

1. Im time of need to qualify for a commission in
the Canadian Army — either as Active or
Reserve,

 

2. Three summers of four months training each at
full pay ($153 per month), plus board, lodging,
‘clothing and transportation.

3. A training that will fit in with your education,
whether general, technical or professional and
as well develop a healthy body, an alert mind,
and leadership qualities.

4. The chance to meet students from twenty-four
other universities from Newfoundland to British
Columbia.

on

Applications are particularly invited from Sophomores in Engineering, first. and second years
Arts, Science, and Commerce—first year Law,
Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy.

Come and talk it over with the Resident Staff
Officer—Major J. N. Cram

at the C.0.T.C. Office in the Dal Gym, or Phone at

one of the numbers listed on the C.O.T.C. Bulletin
Board in the Gym,

Remember that the quota for 1949-50 is limited,
so apply early.

 

the matter of giving the news is of

  
  

 
  
  
  
    
  
 

  
  
   
      
  

   
  
       
   
   
  
  
   
  
 

  
  
   
  
    
     
   
  

 
     

   

nis loads of supporters.

   
   
  
      
     
    
     
    
    
    
     
       
     
    
       

  
  

att
Mal ,

if should be a real battle.

i aoe twice a day, and Coach George
Gray, pleased with the squad’s 9-0
_-—-vietory over Navy, says the team

__-will be in top shape, and predicts

 -@ win.
 * The Senior squad will be at full
strength for the combat, and will
field what will probably be the
strongest Dal team in recent years.
Most of last year’s championship
squad are back, and newcomers
“such as Gordie McCoy, Roddie
Morrison, and Don MacLeod are
expected to prove invaluable to the

Tigers in their fight to retain the
. eity-title.

The Intermediates will tackle the
Junior Hatchetman in the opening
contest at two o’clock. The Cubs
will have the services of several
varsity players, and their stars,
‘Ted Grayston and George Tracey
ial Deval’: back im action.

Navy Win Saturday
Dims Dal Chances

Dalhousie’s hopes for a playoff
berth were considerably lessened
after Navy’s surprise win over the
favorite W.A.A.C. on Saturday
afternoon. Shearwater now holds
sole possession of first place with
six points. Wanderers and Navy
are tied for second place with four
points while Dal has ‘but 2 points.
The Tigers will have to win their
next two games and one of the
second place teams drop one. This
will put Dal into the playoffs and
a chance for the league title.

 

ee —EEE

 

A Complete

| PHOTOGRAPHIC
SERVICE...
SUPPLIES
EQUIPMENT

REPAIRS
ASSISTANCE

the

CAMERA SHOP

of the Maritimes Ltd.
26 BLOWERS ST. 3-8524

CASINO

MON. through THURS.

= thy

 

 
    

*

Starting Thursday
Margaret Mitchell’s

"| | “GONE WITH
a THE WIND”

CLARK GABLE
VIVIEN LEIGH

 

  
  
  
  
    

Capitol Music Co.
a. Phone 3-6425
Nee 21 Blowers Street

Complete Line of

Easy Terms

 

. ist fad Gewist English
a ee Teams Play ‘Appleknockers’

On Saturday, October 29, the two English Rugby teams
ll make the annual trip to Acadia, accompanied by several
r The Senior Axemen, thanks to last
oe victory over St. Francis Xavier, are the new Nova
Scotia Intercollegiate Champs, and, with the exception of
_ Lorne White, will field the same team that beat Dal in the
opening of the schedule. However, the Tigers have improved
tremendously during the last two weeks,

The Dal boys have been working ®———

 

 

   
  
  

" RADIOS, RECORDING  APPLIANCES, MUSICAL  IN-—
STRU MENTS, JEWELLERY

 

PoP S Oe aD

and the game

Stad Pool al
For Co-Ed Dips

Miss Evans has been successful
in obtaining the use of the Stadacona swimming pool. The pool will
be available to all Dal girls on
Mondays from 4.30 until 5.30, commencing Oct. 24th. Prospects for
the swimming team will be chosen
shortly, but all beginners as well
as those in more advanced groups
are urged by Miss Evans to
attend.

 

Coach Vitalone, the Gold and
Black basketball mentor is “pleased with the natural ability I have
found in most boys’. The natural
ability plus, conditioning should
take the “Varsity to their initial
against

game Thursday evening

the Dal Grads.

 

Please Be Seated in the new bleacher seats installed in the Dal gym.

tators comfortably and when not in use fold back against the walls. Watch the game in style Thursday

night.

Dal Co-eds Suffer 3-1 Defeat in
First Ground Hockey Game with King’s

 

| Ground hockey for Dal has got); with a score of 3-1.

‘than one.
‘week at 8:15 bundled figures could |executed passes. Blocking
'be seen breaking the ice on the | own goal added to the difficulty
'practice field. Sixteen girls have | ‘of active defense. There is no lack
‘turned out for the team. Satur-|of spirit in the team and as this
‘day saw Dal’s defeat by King’s,| goes to press the team is getting
pene for one more game with
pane

 

“DANCING

SATURDAY THE

Riviera Restaurant
85 Spring Garden Road

 

GREEN LANTERN

“The sign of a good
| meal”

j

 

  

NUR/ERIES Limited --
— me

 

BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

&
407-409 Barrington St.
PEE SE Ng ET EN ESS

COMPLETE LINES
of all

Photographic Supplies
and Equipment

“The Students’ Drug
STORE”

invites you to drop in
For your Drug Needs, School
Supplies, Pen and Pencil Sets,
Shaving Needs, Magazines and

24 Hour Developing and
Printing Service

REID SWEET
PHOTO SUPPLIES

9, Prince St. -. Dial 3-8539

 

Sundries, and for unexcelled
Snack Bar and Soda Fountain
Service.

Fader’s Pharmacy Ltd.
Studley Pharmacy Ltd.

29 Coburg Road
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

win of the season in the opening! 4nq Gold line of Blair Dunlop, |
| Alfie Cunningham and Alec Farqu
 

The trouble of |
off to a chilly start, in more ways| Dal seems to lie in the lack of a
The early days of this | receiver for some of the brilliantly |
their |

Dalhousie et cadiah to Meet
DalGrads in Season’sOpening Game

The Dalhousie Intermediates will clash with Dal Grads
Thursday evening, 7.30 at the Dal Gym. This game will open
the ’49-’50 basketball season in the City. Both teams will
send strong teams to floor Thursday, in what should prove
to be a fast crowd-pleasing game.

Coach Vitalone will dress his
strongest twelve men for the game.
Probable starters will be as follows: Andy MacKay playing guard
along with Seott Henderson; Red
Finlay in center, and Chuck Connelly with Scott Morrison as forwards. In reserve Dal will have This game is important to Dal
such formidable stars as Jimmie |pbecause it will give Coach Vitalone
Mahon, Earl Smith, Gordie McKoy, a chance to see how the boys reMason MacDonald, Bob Black and | act under the pressure of attack
Don Tanner. and defense by an opposing team.

The Dal Grads will have their
“old reliables” out. Guarding their |
cage will be such outstanding stars
of former college days as Carl |
Giffen and Ralph Cooley. Their |
forward line will be the old Black

har. In reserve they will dress
Tommy Sweet and Robin Robertson. ‘This was the same lineup
that played against the House of
David and the Philadelphia Colored Giants last year.

 

     
          
 
        
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
       
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
     
   
     
     
            
      
           
     
        

 

CANADA’S FINEST
CIGARETTE

The new stands will hold 750 spec- |

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1827”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N. §8. DARTMOUTH, N. 5S.

79 Upper Water St.

 

 

 

“Pardon me, Mr. Wes. Bang! May I ask to
what you ascribe your phenomenal success?”’

“Sure! A lot of practice—and a little ‘Vaseline’
Hair Tonic every day to ‘check’ Dry Scalp and
keep my hair in position.”

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

 

TRADE MARK

'VAGELINE' 18 THE REGISTERED TRADE MARK OF THE CHESEBROUGH MFG. CO, CONB'D,

widen .

‘ e * . ? = ot
wai Nl aa cl sel nS li il ieee ead
