   
 
   
 
 

    
    
      
 
    
 
 
       
 
     
       
      
     
     

Gazette.

-PRESIDENT’S
STATEMENT
ON ARTS
AND SCIENCE

 

DR. CARLETON STANLEY

President of Dalhousie University

re Tam chown by the invitation of the “Arts and Science
Society” to write a word or two in their issue of the Dalhousie
The Dalhousie Gazette, seventy-five years old, has

been at various periods an independent organ of opinion in n this

a | country.
ge

of his days.

For more than ten years I have
be been reminding members of DalAy housie, and a wider public as well,
that what our enemies would destroy
and what they first of all destroy
among their own peoples, was the
Faculty of Arts and Science. Engineering they approve and highly
endow; so with applied science, and
medicine, pharmacy and kindred subjects. But the Humanities, and Law
too,—on its philosophic, exploratory,
and historic side—they cannot abide.
For these things cannot submit unless man is free, and unless the
dignity of the individual is upheld.
Wherever you touch the Faculty of
Arts and Science you should be
dealing with something humanising
and ciyilising. A great piece of
literary or historical writing, music,
art—there Man has flowered, and
created. The caleulus, philosophic

 

|
|

»

= > 1

there you see Man striving, and
¢ ‘sometimes creating too, There may
* be dull bits by the way. You can’t
5 crash any of the gates. For example
the author of the saying, “Man is a
political animal’, was a biologist,
and much of his political writing is
| dark unless you know 4 considerable
amount of biology. One needs to
know many sciences and many
languages to be an archaeologist.

I have been led into these latter
remarks because it is not our external enemies, as we know them at

. present, who are likely to destroy
our civilization by forcing us, so
largely, to forgo the Humanities.

No, it is those in our midst who,
when they hear a word of these high
matters, proceed to weigh Lucretius,
__ Botticelli, and Brahms in/a grocer’s
. seale and ask “What’s the good of
them ?”—who ask petulantly when
they hear of any theorizing, mathematical, philosophic, or historic,
“What use is this?—let us get to
- the facts.” Now the man who was
to become the first Principal of Dalhousie, said in Nova Scotia in 1818
- that facts had to be known by those

  
   
    
 
   
    
    
   
  
   
    
   
 
  
  
     
  
  
     
 
  
 
 
  

a.

on that a man who was to be educated
} ~ had to be able to compare and re
(ey
{ye

e late facts, had to ‘tise to abstract |
ee 2 h and eats.

truths and principles. It is not on|
4 copie : known, to

investigation, scientific experiment—

who were to master techniques, but |

        
  
   

Ge out

Long may it so continue!

‘Tf in the brief space at my disposal I can induce one or two
by of my readers to study an article on “The Humanities in the
War-Time University” by the late Sir Robert Falconer, I shall
be very pleased and well-rewarded.
University of Toronto Quarterly, October, 1943.) Certainly any
z student in an Arts and Science Faculty who conned that article
| 4 diligently would find himself inspired and exalted for the rest

us And, meantime, while these dark years
_continue, he might find clues to guide him through the maze
and through the windy doctrines of our time. ~

(it is to be found in the

s of War

much, attention to “getting to the
facts”. McCullough gave some attention rather to “getting past the
facts”. And a very wise teacher
said: “Ye shall know the Truth, and
the Truth shall make you free.” Is
these a better motto for an Arts and
Seience Faculty?

Carleton Stanley,
President.

 

Arts and Science
Carrying On

Last year Arts and Science had
as its president that red-headed
dynamo, Helen MacKay (now Mrs.
Blakelocke). During the term a
new constitution was proffered to
Arts and Science by the executive,
and accepted by the society. The
outstanding item was that each of
the four classes contribute ten dollars to the society and so by these
means we are able to carry on our
activities. Our indebtedness to
Helen cannot be too great for the
intense interest which she aroused
in the society.

This year we are again indebted
to our executive for the excellent
manner in which they maintained
our high standard here on Studley
campus. Our president, Jean MacDonald, and her executive have done
their utmost as we knew they would
do when we elected them.

Our members do not by any means
confine their abilities to the society
alone. Is not our president on the
Students’ Council, besides taking an
active part in the government of
Shirreff Hall? Our Vice-President
upholds the society on the D.A.A.C.

Continued on page 4

 

FROSH SKATING PARTY SLATED FOR SATURDAY NIGHT

The weatherman wasn’t in favour
of a sleigh-ride so the class of ’47
undaunted have planned a_ skating
party for Saturday night, Feb. 12.
Frosh and their friends will gather in the Gym at 7:15 and then to
King’s Rink to skate. At 10 0 clock
back to the Lower Gym for dancing
Come on Frosh down
your silver blades and off to King’s.

ae eck out! It’s all thee 1!

a eee

iJ Fl . iv hth

Me cme hs
Bi

| ot a

+
3 at —.

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 11, 1944

OUR HISTORY, 1864 - 1944

ts

  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

what is now Dalhousie’s Arts and Science Society came into
being. It was known as the Dalhousie College Debating Society,
and the first mention of it in the newly-founded Gazette gives
some idea of its popularity and its activities.

The closing lecture before the Dalhousie College
Debating Society was delivered on Friday evening last,
by Dr. Lawson. The subject was Air, and it was treated
in that able manner which vre-eminently characterizes
Dr. L. We are sorry that we have no space to give an
extended report; suffice it to say that. the Hall was
erowded — that the audience was most interested and
pleased—and that the experiments, ably performed by
Messrs. Abbinett and Lindsay, were very brilliant.

(Dalhousie Gazette, April 5, 1869)

It is impossible to give here anything like a complete account
of this body’s activities, so we must be content to say that it
throve and grew mighty. It met weekly; Friday night at 7.30
p.m. the debates began. It is interesting to note that women
first attended these meetings in January of 1870; however, this
society long resisted the inclusion of women among its members. It is recorded that in a debate on the advisability of
having a Female Seminary at Dalhousie, the negative side won
by a six-sevenths majority. O tempora! O mores! Could they
but see their college now!

Time passed, students came and went, but the society kept
on its even way. Then came 1912, and with it, change. In this
‘year, a new Constitution was granted the Students’ Council of
the University. There was to be one council member for every
twenty-five students, these members being nominated by the
faculty societies. The Medical Society nominated three members, the Law two, the Dentistry Society one. But where was
Arts and Science? Alas, this faculty had no society. There was
no time to form one. Turning necessity to gain, the powers that
were delegated to our old friend, now the Arts and Science Debating Society, the power to nominate Arts and Science’s eight
council members. The word “Debating’ was dropped from the
title—thoug i iviti i
its present name, the Arts and Science Society. Its meetings
were now Friday afternoons from five to six, and there was a
eee interest in the debates. There was no lack of debaters
then!

However, more trouble loomed ahead. The students objected to the Society’s having the power to nominate council
members for the whole Arts and Science faculty. Since it had
no constitution, it did not represent all the faculty, and, in
short, was “perhaps the weakest institution in the college.” The
Engineers, led by Bert Hayes, were largely responsible for this
furor; they demanded the right to nominate their own members
ind seceded from the society. As a result, it was decided to
nominate Arts and Science council members by classes, rather
than from the faculty as a whole. This altercation which had
yecupied the winter of 1913-1914, had at least one good result
for the Society. In 1914, a constitution was drawn up for it,
©. R. Hawkins being president at the time. It seemed for a
vhile that this meant a new lease on life for this institution, but
it was the calm before the storm.

That storm was—War.
mori’’—and Dalhousie men were anything but cowards.
haters exchanged words for bullets and went off to war; the
society began to languish. A further blow was the conflict
between the C.O.T.C. training and the Friday meetings of the
society—the C.O.T.C. won, and debates were feebly carried on
avery Tuesday. Interest in them flagged more and more; finally
they became things of the past. When the society was revived
after the war it was impossible to get a decent turnout for the
debates, for in 1912 Dalhousie had come to Studley and now

 

                                               

“Dulee et decorum est pro patria
De
-|such awful things as labs occupied Friday afternoons. The ghost

of the society remained; it did meet once a year to nominate
members to the Students’ Council. This half-hearted existence
lasted till about a decade ago. At that time a new constitution
was drawn up, in the hope that fresh vigour might be infused
into tihs otherwise inert body. Owen Hughes was president,
and the constitution was drawn up in the home of George
Murphy, who is now serving overseas. However, the remedy
sroved to be useless, and the society remained in a state of
'etharey—dead, but not yet buried.

In 1938, it was decided that the society should be resurrected, given another constitution, and placed on the list of
active student organizations. An executive committee headed
by Douglas MacKean drew up the constitution which the Students’ Council ultimately passed—although not without much
delay and much oposition—in February, 1939. Equipped with
this, the society has endeavoured to struggle on, but the whole
cannot function if the parts are unwilling. It had to overcome,
not active opposition, but an almost complete lack of of interest
on the part of Arts and Science students. It has not yet won
the battle. but there has been progress. If the students cooperate, there will be more. This year marks its eightieth
birthday. May it also mark its rejuvenation!

4

At on emer

en eto
nies ST aan Aina |

The date 1864 means nothing to most of us, but in this year

ee ee ee ee ca a aa cae ee a nl a el ee

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

 

staging a dance in the gymnasium.

best to work against us.

CPSs.

answered immediately.

night at the Red Cross Clinic.
response,

ninth time.

turn out.

D,A.A.C,
Eileen

Phinney,

Science representatives

Dramatics Manager Art Hartling,
presented February
the Arts and Science Society will be

Launching into the sacred precincts of Gazette publication with ¢oeditor Connie Archibald in the chair, Arts and Seience have edited part
A large part of the success of this attempt has been due
to the untiring efforts of the co-editor, and to the splendid support given

of this issue.

by several members of the Society.

The Arts and Science Society is in a stable financial position with a
bank balance of eighty-one dollars and ninety-six cents.

Directly from the beginning of
term when an enthusiastic freshman
asked just what he could do in the
Arts and Science Society, we have
had the right kind of spirit shown
in order that the Society should be
a success.

The Executive: Vice-President —
Drummond Fraser, Treasurer: Marg
Macpherson, Secretary: Jo Robert
 

ARTS AND SCIENCE MEETING
TO BE HELD FEBRUARY 17TH

There will be a meeting of the
Arts and Science Society on Thursday, February 17th, at 12 o’clock in
Room 8 of the Arts Building. The
business to be discussed is:

1. Election of officers for

1945;

2. Nominations for Council repre
sentatives.

3. Financial report on the dance.

1944
‘

The Arts and Science Society began a successful year in October,
1943, with a very well-attended meeting. The Secretary, Jo Robertson,
was elected from the freshman class.
for th year—these have been carried out as follows.

Our major venture in the field of college activities this year was

support from the Society as a whole.
second Friday in January, never thinking that a flu’ epidemic would do its
It finally turned ou that we had exactly three
days to circulate the news around the campus, and to sell tickets. Finally
all arrangements were completed and the great night arrived, only to
pass too quickly, for everyone present had a wonderful time.
Mrs. Archibald, Dr. Bell and his daughter Janet were the chaperones.
for the Society — we cleared approximately twenty-five dollars).
Everything points to the Arts and Science Hops becoming an annual event.

However, college life has taken a more serious turn during wartime,
and when an appeal was made for blood donors from Dalhousie, it was
It was decided that the girls in Arts and Science
would come under Delta Gamma, the male students under the Arts and
Science Society itself. Gordon Hart, in charge of this department, has
made it possible that each member be asked to. contribute next Dalhousie
This will be ‘February sixteenth.
from those refusing for medical reasons, we have had a very satisfactory
many of the members going for the third, fourth and even

Sports manager, Reg McColough, had a football team out three times
during the fall term, but the team Arts and Science was to play failed to
At present a hockey team is being chosen and it will play
against either the Meds or Engineers in the near future.
representative is Arthur Hartling.

Our representative to the Dalhousie Council of Students, chosen in
the elections last March have been Larry Sutherland, Barbara White,
Carl Little and Jean Macdonald.
was made Vice-President of the Council, Joan Vaughan was elected to
fill the position ef a Junior class representative.
have been active on Council committees and have
represented their society energetically and well.

Last year our play “Coming of Age” was successful in winning the
Connolly Shield in competition with two other plays.
been engraved and is now henging in the library. The group in the play
this year were chosen, and are practising under the capable direction of

23rd and it is hoped that*each and every member of

No. 14

    
   
 
    

ARTS AND
SCIENCE
ACTIVE
DURING 43-44

 

MISS JEAN MacDONALD

President of the Arts and Science
Society

At this meeting we made plans

This received absolutely wonderful
We planned on Having it the

Dr. and

Apart

The Society’s

Because Barb. White

All of the Arts and

This shield has

  
 
 
   
   
  
    
 
   
   

The -play “Five Minutes” is to be

present to see this performance,

son, Dramatics aMnager: Art Hartling, Activities: Irma MacQuarrie,
have given unafiling of their time
and energy to make the Society a
power at Dalhousie. Each one deserves sepcial credit.

It has been active, it is going to
be active, it must be active, if Studley. is to have a unified college spirit.
The senior members are leaving, but
we are not efarful for the future of
our Society—we are leaving a group
of undergraduates who are wideawake and entirely capable of bringing Arts and Science to. the. fore.
There will be difficulties, due to the
decreased enrolment in the faculty of
Arts and Science, but these will be
erased by the concentrated efforts of
all members. Let us always be able
to say “We are praud to belong to
the Arts and Science Society.”

JEAN MACDONALD

President, Arts & Science Society.
  
      

yt
t

a

 

ANALYTIC INVESTIGATION of the CAMPUS PERSONALITIES in ARTS and SCIENCE

Here we go with the latest on everybody.
It’s easy these days to tell the Dexter twins apart. Carl seems to) ¢o5thall on the intermediate team and raced back to the stands to serve as

show more interest in Pharmacy.

Everybody knows where John Ballem’s “hart” lies! !
And then there’s the committee for the pins of the Class of ’47

Mary, and the chaperone, Doug.

We dll know the favourite “cereal” of the First Year Meds.
When asked what he thought the most precious metal was, Gordie

Hart replied, “silver”.

What has Betty Clark got to convert a confirmed woman hater to a

regular dater every Saturday night?

Neil MacKelvey has been norma-l for quite a time now.
That was quite a dramatic entrance the stagg party made to the

last Open House at Shirreff Hall.

We hear that Laura MacKenzie had added a new article to her

jewelry.

Boys, have you heard Eddie Sarson’s dissertation on “men”?
holds some very interesting views on this delicate subject and perhaps

for a date or two would share them.

From all reports, Leo MacLean plans to have a little “white house”

when he gets married.

Have you hear what Leone Mooney has “doug” up over at Phi Rho?
Everybody can heave a sigh of relief when Bill Hagen finally makes
up his mind between those two popular Shirreff Hall girls.

they will be relieved, too.

Did you know that Terry Maclean gets so many phone calls that they
are having an extension put in her room?
Nickie tells us she has lost her taste for “stu” and now wants her

“fill” of medicine.

Why the forlorn look on Kimball’s face these days?
doesn’t look very “merry”.
We are wondering if that is a purely business proposition between
Dee, the songbird of Dalhousie, and her accompanist.
Janet says that her favourite car is a Baby Austen.
A lot of Dal girls, (especially those green freshettes) are wondering
if Jim Henderson has a steady girl outside college or if he’s a confined

bachelor.

Who would have thought that Lizzie could even settle down to one

man? That pin is proof enough!!!

The Hall girls are wondering what has happened to “Glamour-boy
Pierce” lately. The alcoves look very cold and bare without him.

We:see that the Boilermaker’s did not change Mackay’s affections.

should Jo remain faithful to the South Shore or should she feel

“sawyer” for a certain local boy?

Well, ‘nuff said.
P’s and Q’s.

 

If A. E. Houseman Came to Dal

Studious men and women appearing from all parts of the campus
one morning may have gazed curiously at an elderly man who was
dazedly looking about him. But
with minds on classes, interest in
the stranger passed, as they hurried
on, impelled by the five to nine bell.
And just who was this distinguished
looking visitor to the campus? He
was not a member of the faculty.
No it was Housman, that bane of
English 1’s existence. Yes, the spirit of the now dead Housman had
come to Studley Campus. Surely it

_™must ha¥e been after just such a

_ visit that he wrote his poem about

es
ae

a
AS

Was

}
ae
nu

i

¢
Hs
<

7

"sit
‘

*
‘o

$
'

the “two trades of man.”

“To stand up straight and tread
the turning mill;

To lie flat and know nothing and be

Are the two trades of

‘There has always been a great

an an ”

_ deal of speculation about what
| caused the despair and pessimism
mirrored in Housman’s poetry. The

  

rer is quite obvious when we ex
‘amine what little is known of his

al life, He was a Latin pro
_. And what could have drawn him

Py ee

Pe iat}.
" _*.

et

So, untnil our column, next week, mind your

   

The Arts and Science Hop, held in the Gym, Jan. 14th. '

 

 

Al,

Eddie

Doubtless,

He certainly

*

to Dal? There is an old saying that
a criminal returns to the scene of
his crimes. Could be that. though
Housman was a master at Latin his
knowledge of geography was a little
deficient.

What he might have thought of
Dal is another question. After looking at the Freshmen, it is quite
probable that he’d wish to quote his
poem beginning:

“Could man be drunk forever.”

And if he caught a glimpse of the
sweater and

ee ee ee ee

skirt combination of
the Freshettes, taking it for granted |

that some of the skirts were visible |

under the ankle-length sweaters, |
would he quote the lines: )
“Tl a stranger and afraid

In a world I never made.”

He’d most certainly realize that
we'd taken his words to heart:

“Think no more lad, laugh, be
jolly’’!

After a tour of the library, ineluding a look-in on the men’s common room in the Arts Building, it’s
quite logical that he’d go off saying
to himself:

“They say my verse is sad: no
wonder!”

 

 

—By Vera Wilde
(No relation to Oscar)

 

i

Bethe Corpus

ifs at Noa wae ae = ee .

Science

Hop MEDIUM

OR

MILD

CIGARETTES

 

 

nee ee

 

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

‘And a good time was had by all’’

Neil MacKelvie came into Dalhousie life with a bang! He played
cheerleader for the senior games. At the moment his sporting inclinations are being shown on the basketball floor. He is also an outstanding
student and represents Dalhousie in the Intercollegiate Debates. He is
an efficient Secretary-Treasurer of the freshman class and is lending his
talent to Arts and Science Society as a member in the cast of their oncact play. H

After any Show

or . ° *

Before any Meal

Magic words symbolizing supreme quality in
the gems.

Yet Birks Diamonds
cost no more.

Chief booster for Arts and Science, from Forrest Campus, is Larry
Sutherland. In spite of leading the busy life of a first year Med, Larry
has many extra-curricular activities. Last year he capably edited Pharos.
His popularity this year is displayed by the fact that he has been appointed Life-President of the Class of ’44. Larry accomplishes much in
a quiet way, and for the past two years has served on the Students’
Council, first as representative for D.A.A.C. and this year he-is a senior
representative for Arts and Science.

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,

American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. 8.

Ted Shields. One of King’s chief contributions to the Arts and
Science Society of Dalhousie is Ted Shields. The Gazette has always been
Ted’s special line, and this year he ascended to the lofty position of Editor.
He has proved and continues to prove his ability in journalism which he
has chosen as his career. Let us hope that the experience he gains as
Editor of the Dal Gazette will help him in his life’s work.

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

Jo Robertson is one of this year’s outstanding Freshettes. She is
already active in the Arts and Science Society, being its Secretary, and
she is also taking part in the play to be presented by this Society in
competition for the Connolly Shield. She is vice-president of the Frosh
class. She is active in sports, especially badminton, tennis and basketball.
The Arts and Science Society has high hopes for Jo.

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh. Fish Specialists
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

   

  
 
  

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

Laura MacKenzie. One of the greatest losses we will suffer this
year with the departure of the graduating class will be Laura MacKenzie.
She is a very prominent member of the Students’ Council this year, serving
in the capacity of Freshman representative. Laura plays a brilliant game
of badminton and has cheerfully borne the burden of manager for the
D.G.A.C. during the past two years. active in the Delta
Gamma Society.

FARMERS’ MILK

She is also

Barbara White. “Bobby”, as she is known around the campus, is
especially prominent in the Glee Club, having taken an active part in
many of its presentations since she came to Dalhousie, and is now the
president. Bobby is also vice-president of. the Students’ Council and
junior representative in the Arts and Science Society. Included in her
long list of student activities is the Pi Beta Phi Fraternity.

ALWAYS PURE
ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Jean Macdonald, the nucleus of Arts and Science is the president of
this society. Her popularity is evident by the fact that she is Life-VicePresident of the Class of ’44. She serves the Arts and Science Society
as senior representative on the Students’ Council. She is an active member of the Midlothian- Society, and of Pi Beta Phi Fraternity. Of this
outstanding graduate of "44, we are expecting great things.

A senior this year, Sue Morse has been a very active participant in
all college activities since her arrival here. After serving Delta Gamma
most efficiently as Secretary, last year, she succeeded to the office of
President this year. Because of her capabilities and outstanding qualities
of leadership, Sue was elected house president of Shirreff Hall. She is
also a member of the Midlothian Society, and of Pi Beta Phi Fraternity.

 

Are You Competing For

Al Farquhar, a freshman of ’44, shows promise of being one of the
outstanding figures on the campus during the next few years. In his quiet
unassuming manner, he has already made himself known in athletic circles.
During the past fall, he was a dependable player on the Dal senior foot
ball team and is wow showing his prowess on the senior football squad.
We expect great things from you Al.

The James DeMille Prizes, $200 and $100?
The Joseph Howe Prizes, $200 and $100?
The Mushkat Memorial Essay Prize, $40?

| : . | The Overseas League Essay Prize, $40?
Ann Saunderson is the outstanding girl athlete of the campus. She

is the ladies’ tennis champion of the University and plays an equally
brilliant game of basketball and ping pong. She is President of the
D.G.A.C, and as such maintains a wonderful interest in all sports. Her
interest does not-lie only in athletics for she served on the Arts and
Seience Society’s dance committee,-helping to make it the success it was.
She is the newly elected president of Pi Beta Phi Fraternity.

 

The Mushkat Prize is open to students in Arts
and Seience only; the others are open to stu
Pea denise | dents in all faculties.
Joan Archibald’s chief interest lies in the Students’ Christian Move
ment. She is the capable president of this organization, and as such was
one of its representatives at the conference in Wooster College, Wooster,
Ohio, at which twenty-five nations were represented. She is president of
Alpha Delta Gamma Fraternity. She is vice-president of the Glee Club
wd has been very helpful in its various activities in previous years,

 

For complete details see announcements on the
bulletin boards.

One of the most familiar figures on the campus is Art Hartling
athletic, dramatist and grand all around fellow. His aptitude and daber:fulness in doing unwanted tasks, makes him a general favovrite of the
campus. He serves Arts and Science in the capacity of Dramatic Manager
At present he is busy directing and playing the leading role in the Ais
and Science one-act play.

‘ Continued on page three

 

Arrange your work to provide essays suitable for
entry in one or more competitions.

 

 
ae

C ns

4

7 HOw. 10 F FINISH HITLER

plo att

Electric chai
_ The modern forms of

rt the same

punishment

oe, all by far too tame.
_ As Hitler made others suffer
i Pieces see cibers ;
It would prolong his punishment,
_ And this is what I’d do.

I'd bind hands and feet and let him rave
I would tar and feather him

Then build a fire, neath a tree,
And bind him to a limb.

Then when the flames

would hiss ad roar

He’d struggle to get higher

And this would only
And land him in the fir

bend the ‘limb,

Then springing back again in place
Would go the wiry limb
With Hitler swaying in the air

An ugly, grotesque

thing.
Thus punishment would be prolonged
And I think that all will see
It’s just what is needed for a beast ‘

" And Eanes such as

*

_ At first hibit it might be a good
idee to make Hitler do all the ques
ae i tions in the Math IL textbook, or a

theme every day, or other unimag
Pye

an ores horror.

However, the punishing of Hitler
ta a problem which must be handled
carefully. To have his memory ven
Pe etatad by millions of Germans would
be a setback in post-war security.

Me Bt

He should be tried (if possible by
German law) and receive sentence
for murder, at the. same time making

apron to all that all human beings
must be subject to the death penalty

ir

for murder.

The less piling on of

fee tee and hate, and the more rea
son in European peace plans, the
greater chance of a lasting peace.
It is far more important to prevent

R the formation of grievances after
it the war, than it is to glory in the
as a ‘revenge of irony as Hitler did in

Ff oP
HS, i)

Er:

France. It is to be hoped that Hitler
will commit suicide and save a lot of

_ trouble for everyone.

ae oy
brig Bit
hm

rs culprits of the Allied list of war

be Ns

A -#

Li
ie

The same should apply to the other

crimes.
. —E, D. MacDonald.

+ *

They should house him in a large
iron cage, and show him all over the
world. They will get millions of
dollars,

George Musso, Trenton.
a ¢ *
th | Monsieur: Bn repsone a votre dede que j’ai vu sur Halifax

P me a qu’est qu’on droit faire avec
t

Mon

: | erie une ee le faire

% avec |’auto.
ry: demnera eux memes.

Pet
Wika)

now get along in the line of sports

_ Engineers took the game and are

ee

a

>
iy

Ly ia ee
ait
Y

‘passer -doucement dans ces pays
La les gens le conCar si ca

LT SQUA RE

Well you slide rule genii we can

~ again. Thursday last the Engineers
> played interfaculty basketball against
the’ Arts and Science. Naturally the

now waiting for their next victims.

The Arts and Science also fell victims again to the Engineers in interfaculty hockey, played on Kings rink
on Monday. Both teams battling it
out for a full three parade gave the

- Personalities igi

he.

—Mrs. Walter Umlah, Armdale.

* *

serez moi je ne manquerez pas, car y
a fait souffert des pauvres gens assez, pour lui faire passer tous ce
quia pu faire,

—Mde. Antoine Brunch,
Reserve Mines.

x # *

I have quite a lot of suggestions
to do with Hitler. One would be
exhibit him all over the world, there
wolud be two billion people who
would pay 50c to see him act. Regulate visiting the different places in
the summer time so as to have light
clothes and lots of hornets. When
everything was ready put in a few
hornets with him and the show would
automatically begin. It would amuse
the people and keep his blood pressure and rheumatism down.

After being to all the cities and
towns in the world put him in one
of his submarines with plenty of food
and like the little girl, somethings
he didn’t like would be best for him;
and some big snakes. (He would be
immune to them). Tow him down
to the South Pole and anchor him
there. He could lick the grease of
its axle for a change. He would
always have the devil for company.
They are twins anyway and at the
last Saint Peter would say, “Hell,
Hitler, keep on down’.

Or skin him alive, not all at once
like the Indians did, but just a patch
at atime. On the tedious parts burn
swatiskas, and- run him through the
sideshow a while and graft a pelt
from a striped-back polecat and all
and put him on an Island; the jackals and wolverines would have some
respect for him.

—M. C. Mumford,
Woodville, Hants County.

| cheering section a little excitement

and they showed lots of interest in
the game.

Tuesday the engineering society
held their meeting of the month and
the financial statement on bills owed,
bills paid, and amount on hand was
the first item discussed.

Arrangements for the banquet on
Fel. 25 were made and the speaker
of the evening will be Mr. Ryan,
will speak on electronics.

The class pieture was planned to
be taken on Thursday at 2 p.m.

Nominations for Council elections
were received and Art Burgess, Gus

Oakley,Doug Clark were nominated. |

Continued from page one

/". Anita Rosenblum is a inernber of Axts\and Séience who has brought
ee “honor to Dalhousie by her ability in debating. At present she is the
Re _ manager of Delta Gamma debating team. A well known basketball
. player, she served. as team manager one year, and now plays on the team.

i Native active on the | staff of Pharos, she has served as circulation
1s ee ’

Joan Vaughan. ‘Anattier: important cog in the Arts and Science So
Panties machine is Joan Vaughan.
- Gamma. Besides being on the executive as representative for the junior

| Patt and he has worked tirelessly recruiting blood donors and has

class, she is constantly acting on committees, 
She is an active member of Delta

In November of last year

) she was elected to the Students’ Council as Junior Representative for the
cs Arts and Science Society. She is president of Midlothian Society.
ia

‘prone Hart. “Gordie” plays a leading role in many college activiIn ‘the Arts and Science, he is the chairman of the Blood Donor’s

¥

: Jargely responsible for the great response of the students. He is

ntstanding athlete,
“the .

sagt on the ede edness and basketball

ITLER/ Blood Donors Urgently

Needed for Next Clinic

How many of you have noticed while glancing through

your evening paper that a new column has been appear

lately? The author i

It is a list of names of officers and men of the Canadian army
overseas that have been either killed or wounded .in action.
Take a minute tonight to look at the names on the list. Any old
friends there? What! Why, I can’t believe it. It isn’t possible!
I always thought that he was the type of a guy that couldn’t

|get hurt. Look again, I guess

believe.
was heading for Italy.

@
It might have been a bullet but

just as often death on the battlefield is caused by loss of blood. You
are greatly grieved at your friends
death but could you have done something to save him. If you could
save his life at the time you would
not hesitate to offer your blood but
when he is so far away you are too
selfish to give a small donation of
blood to save the life of a friend.
“T don’t think that I have any
blood to spare. Does it hurt? I
don’t think my parents would allow
it! Does it make you dizzy?” This
and many other questions have faced
canvassers around the campus. Think
it over. After the first donation
all these petty fears will disappear.

Weak Response to Date

The pre-Christmas drive was weak
in response. Delta Gamma showed
the best effort. The Arts and
Science society lagged behind, but is
now jumping ahead with a well organized drive. An executive of five
members was formed to canvass for
doners with the purpose of getting
every eligible student under their
jurisdiction to become a regular
donor and to find out the reasons
for those that hesitate.

If you are approached to give
blood give it some real thought,
won’t you.

Clinic on Feb. 16th

We are sorry that the clinic was
eancelled this week due to the city
wide drive for doners but next Wednesday, February 16th the next
clinic will be held and all those who
agreed to go down this week will be
expected.

If you are doubtful and wish to
ask any questions either write to
the Gazette or contact one of the
canvassers.

wt ak yA
Question

1. How much blood will they take
out?

Ans. Only about % of a pint
Most of the time not even that much.

2. Does the needle hurt?

Ans.: With this question we have
no sympathy.

8. Can you lie down afterward?

Ans.: If you need to. It is not
very often that anyone needs to. On
most people the loss of that much
blood has very little effect.

Coffee (with sugar) and cookies
are served afterwards.

“Is that girl’s dress torn or am I
seeing things?”
“Both.”
(The Brunswickan)

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday - Wednes.
“PRINCESS O’ROURKE”

=f}

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“RIDING HIGH”

Jerry Naugler’s
Orchestra

0

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

I wonder how it happened?

it’s true of a guy that couldn’t
Last I heard of him he

RES

Language Group
Problems Discussed

The listening group of Dalhousie
met last Tuesday evening to discuss
our co-operation with French Canadians in the post-war world. Four
French-Canadian Officers of the Reg.
de Quebee were present, who presented different views and proved
very informative and conducive to
better understanding.

It was explained that while the
French are just as open to industrialization and progress in developing
our resources, they have fears as to
whether the integrity of their homes
ean be maintained as such development has been proceding.

The French stand on matters of
immigration and amendments of the
B.N.A. after the war was also dist
cussed.

The question of a completely Canadian flag was raised, but here opinion
was extremely divided.

It was agreed that Canadians must
accept and realize that Canada is
bilingual; that English Canadians
Should learn French, and’ that the
French should learn English. This
will increase co-operation in solving
common problems and tasks, developing our natural heritage and playing
our proper part in world affairs. It
was obvious through the meeting
that cooperation between the two
language groups on common problems would tend to decrease the
difficulties.

A large atendance of the student
body is hoped for at next’ week’s
meeting when the subject of discussion will be: “Canadians, World
Citizens.”

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“YOUNG IDEAS”

Susan Peters — Herbert Marshall

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

HISTORY IS MADE AT NIGHT
and “TRADE WINDS”

ing
is not Al Capp nor any of the other writers
of editorials but the Minister of National Defence at Ottawa.

Student Council Nominations:
For President 1944-45:

Art Titus, Jeff Bagnall, Ted King.
For Vice-President:

Larry Sutherland, Ann Saunderson.

Pres, McIvor of the D.A.A.C. and
Coach Bernie Ralston of the Basketball team were present-at the meeting, and they stated that unless
additional money for meals could be
obtained, it was probable that
basketball would be drepped.

After considerable discussion, it
was decided that to meet this prospect the Council would, if necessary,
draw into the reserve fund which
was on hand from surpluses of previous Student Councils. This was
the first time such action had ever
been taken, but as it was felt that
this was a lean year due to decreased
student enrolment, the Council felt
justified in its action. $130 was
granted to the basketball team to be
used for meals or for a trip at the
team’s discretion. $90 was granted
to the D.G.A.C. for a trip to Mount

What Is
Federation Week?

During the week Feb. 18-20 groups
of students all over the world are
observing “Federation Week’. These
groups make up the World Student
Christian Federation, an organization with offices at Toronto and
Geneva. There are branches of the
WSCE all over the world, in Canada,
in China, in Japan, in South America.

This week the Dalhousie S.C.M.
will bring three visitors to the
campus—Helen Morton, a W.S.C.F.
official, Surget Singh of Cashmere, India, and Rev. George Tuttle,
who recently attended a Pan American Youth Conference in Mexico
City.

CASINO

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“SING A
JINGO”

with
ALLEN JONES

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

Walt Disney’s
Full Length Sensation

VICTORY
THROUGH
AIRPOWER

---0r how to be welcome in Newfoundland
Between the warm-hearted fisher folk of Newfoundland, Come

in and sit down is the natural salutation to a friend.

kindly is the Have 2 “Coke”

Just as

of the visiting Canadian soldier.

In St. John’s as in St. Thomas, to offer a Coca-Cola i is to win
a new friend. Around the world Coca-Cola is the welcome
invitation to the pause that refreshes—the universal symbol

ofa friendly way of life.

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

STUDENTS’ COUNCIL MEETING

A., as the girls could not have any
games in the city, there being no
other teams using girls rules.

Committees appointed included an
election committee, a war services
committee which includes the I.S.S.
and a Red Cross Dance Committee,
it being decided to hold the Red
Cross Dance this year.

Govern Yourself

Millionnaire’s Ball—Feb. 18
World Student Christian Federation:
Feb. 15—12 noon, Room 4, 8 p.m.
Y.M.C.A.
Feb. 16—8 p.m.
stead.
Feb. 17—12 noon, Room 4,
Feb. 20—King’s College Chapel.
Dalhousie Students’ Citizens Forum:
Tues., Feb. 15, 9 p.m.
Discussion Group: Tuesday nights,
9 p.m.
Basketball:

Murray Home
Wednesday—Senior. +

Saturday—Intermediate,

Med Ball—March 10, Nova Scotia,
Jerry Naugler’s Orchestra,

Life is just one fool thing after
another.

Love is just two fool things after
each other.
(The Silhouette)

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“MINE SURRENDER”
‘HANDS ACROSS the BORDER’

—__]}—————
Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“WHISPERING FOOTSTEPS”
and “FRONTIER LAW”

Capitol

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

OLIVIA DeHAVILLAND

ee ek

“GOVERNMENT

BUREAU”
*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“WE DIVE
AT DAWN”

*“Coke”’=Coca-Cola

Ie’s natural for popular names

bea CO acquire friendly abbreviations

That's why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke.

 
;

_ by BILL POPE

yand the campus there seems to
"inereased enthusiasm for
There are more people taking
active part in a wider variety
than in the last few years,
time of writing we notice that
re six matches to be played

s next two days, namely: senior
ey and basketball, a mixed
ble. ‘ping-pong tournament, a
eyball match between the C.O.
. and U.A-T.C., and interfaculty

. “hockey and basketball. Minor sports

of

al : now taking a more prominent
part in college athletics and screly

this ‘shows an improved spirit in

the whole student body.
Sport would be even more active
on the campus if the Students’ Coun
ne peat would show a greater interest in
"the affairs and circumstances of all

college teams. Picking up a copy
of “The Brunswickan” and seeing

» their budgets on the front page of
their college paper so all may know
what's going on, we wondered how

we a small college like U.N.B. can sup
port their athletics in such a grand

style when our Students’ Council
- eannot even supply a few meals for

- the basketball players.

Is it that
U.N.B.,’ although smaller in number, shows superiority over Dal in

cils’ action. And why is this that

fae college organizations, who have

no larger percentage of people participating in them than has basketball, getting reasonably good budget
while basketball is left in the cold?
Well, the President of the Council
Ken MacKinnon, is a hockey player
and a good one; the Vice-President
of the Council, Barbara White, has
taken, in other years, an extremely
active part in Glee Club activities,
and in all fairness we must say that
she is better in that line than the
average; basketball, however, is not
represented in the Students’ Council!
And so having given these facts we
leave you, gentle readers, to draw
your own conclusions.

So far this year the basketball
team has drawn in over $45.00 in box
office receipts. Half of this amount
goes to the League, but where does
the other $23.00 go—to the basketball team! Don’t be funny. It
would almost seem that the people
who organize and advertise, practise
and play the game should receive
any benefits that may come along.
But no, the Students’ Council takes
all the money and allots it out to
the hockey team, the Glee Clab and
other places where it sees fit.

talented Laura MacKenzie,
three times ladies doubles badminton
champion, twice ladies badminton
manager, and winner of the Khaki
Scholarship given for outstanding
scholastic attainments,
Laura originally hails from Winnipeg but moved to Nova Scotia in
time to receive all her early educa
Dal ys. H.M.C.S. King’s (Feb. 6th). people who, through, their efforts
In a hard fought and fairly evenly! made possible this Arts and Science

matched game at the Arena, Dal
Tigers were downed 7-3 by H.M.C.S.
King’s. Though the actual play was
balanced the King’s boys had more
polish around the nets which accounts for the score, Churchill
Smith, Currie and MacDonald hammered home the three Dal counters.
It was just one of those games
where the score was no indication of
the play.

x
Dal vs. St. Mary’s (Feb. 9th).

The Dal team which started the
season so well certainly did not appear on the ice-last Wednesday. It
consisted of the same players, but
all teamwork and _ co-ordination
seemed to be gone. The first period
witnessed three goals for St. Mary’s;
the second, one for same; and the
last, none for nobody. In the third
period two St. Mary’s players were
sent off the ice at the same time and
it looked as if Dal’s big chance had
come. However, this was not to be,
and the boys in red and white effectively blocked some rather ragged
attempts at scoring. We hate to admit it, but only the net-minding of
MacKinnon saved the day. Even a
good goalie has his limits so the
score ended 4-0 for St. Mary’s.
There was a fairly good crowd at
the game,—all St. Mary’s, need we

_ BASKETBALL

The fighting Tigers went down to

3 ok

|

February 11, 1944
oe a ee

P — Ya on ‘ ~ c f.
‘ 7 ’ aa - P ae —e: — ae |
— | a pee Se 4 . 9 eee e's i.” i Lo ea, _ 7
} yn ma) eh Pats ee Meal = sig i) OTST te el fel
tye Peele eee Tia
-*

THANK YOU!
Thanks must be accorded to those

Faculty; Jean Macdonald, Anne
Mackley, Beryl Anderson, Seymour
Black, John Hibbetts, Esther Green-~
blott, Jo Robertson, Mary Maedonald, Janet Gillis, Jean Hirling,
Leone Mooney and Jeannie Collins,
and to the regular Gazette staff.

Issue of The Gazette; to President
Stanley, who willingly gave us his
statement on the Arts and Science

“IT DOES TASTE GOOD IN A PIPE Br

B.Sm., Bachelor of Smoking, is a great
degree. It entitles a man to hours of Blissful Satisfaction in all the days of his life. Graduate under
Prof. Picobac—always mild, cool, sweet.

9
the methods of handling the finances 2
Y= e It just so happens that Mount] tion in Halifax schools. She attend-| defeat on Wednesday evening at the :

ae taht support the student activities ?

f
i

‘Howis it that U.N.B: can give their
basketball teams $1559.50. while Dalhousie receives less than a quarter
‘that amount for basketball? Besides
this amount U.N.B. gives hockey
$735.90, boxing $224.00, ski club
$30.00, swiming $122.90, and track
$167.00. Looking at these budgets

we stand up and cheer U.N.B.’s Stu

WE

dents’ Council for giving their athletics such fine financial support.
If only Dal would do likewise! But

where is the money—our $10 we pay

each fall for Student Activities —
going?

Granted, although Dal is much
larger than U.N.B., our Students’
Council have not as much money to
spend as U.N.B. However, our hockey team and our glee club got fairly
good budgets—the first was almost
$500 while the latter was over $500
—but our basketball team suffered

~ almost to the point of extinction, not

to mention any of the hardships it

has: undergone because of the Coun
The same qualities that
make Turquoise the
matchless drawing pencil
also make it the smoothest, strongest and most
durable writing pencil
for personal and office
use that money can buy.
Treat yourself to the
world’s best Pencil value.

10€ EACH
_ BESS IN QUANTITIES

MADE IN CANADA

“TREITSERLED

‘serse® sonore

Allison girls are coming to Dal to
play our girls in a basktball match
in the near future. Now, many of
those interested in basketball would
like to run a dance and entertain our
guests, and at the same time if there
is any profit after expenses have
been paid, that money should go to
the committee or organization that
ran the dance. In that .way the
basketball team could run out the
season> without being in straitened
circumstances. We think that the
Council should cooperate to the extent of letting a group, that is sincere in its desire and energetic
enough to raise some money on its
own account, to go ahead with plans
that would put the basketball team
in a more comfortable financial
position. This much cooperation
would be appreciated. .

x  #

Wonderings:

Wonder what Barb White would
do if the Glee Club budget was cut
$200 like the basketball budget?
Wonder if there ever was or ever
will be a 100% turnout of Dal students to see a basketball or hockey
match? Wonder if the C.0.T.C. who
eall themselves “a powerful and
united outfit” will be able to defeat
the U. A. T.C. in a scheduled volleyball game? Wonder how the Glee
Club spend their $500.00 budget—on
costumes, make-up, lipstick, fingernail and toenail polish, etc.? (Please
don’t misunderstand this last statement. We think that they should
have makeup and are only too glad
to see them get it, for some really
need it.)

ARTS AND SCIENCE
CARRYING ON—

Continued from page 1

executive and our secretary is a
class officer. When the class of ’44
elected its life-officers, Larry Sutherland, Jean MacDonlad and Susan
Morse were chosen, all members of
Arts and Science. A look at the
staff of the Year Book will show
that Arts and Science have again
come to the fore and have taken on
the difficult job. Just what other
society can compete with this?
Although Arts and Science holds
its rightful place now it is at a
eritical point. Will Arts and Science remain where it is or will it
fall? Yes, its up to you to keep it
in its place. Start looking now for

| the right people, and be ready with

, your nominations for the executive
|and council representatives? Don’t
forget, the Arts and Science meeting
on Thursday, February 17th.

, Labatory

ed Quinpool Road, Morris St., and
H.C.A. before coming to Dalhousie.
At Morris St., she played basketball
on the team which won the Girls
Junior High City Basketball Championship. While at H.C.A. she was
active in badminton and swimming.

Soon after Laura took up her
studies at Dal she was taking a leading part in college badminton circles.
In her first year at college she won
the ladies doubles badminton title
partnered with Ann Goodeve. With
the same partner victory was repeated in her second year, while in
her third year with the able support of Pat Hollis, Laura again showed her superiority by retaining the
same title and cup for three consecutive years. And here we make a
suggestion to anybody that wants
to win the ladies doubles badminton
title this year that they better get
in touch with Laura MacKenzie and
secure her for a partner.

Besides playing a championship
game Laura spends much time in
organizing the sport and during the
last two years has been ladies badminton manager. Besides badminton, she played tennis for the
Waegwoltic in Little Five Competition matches for two years.

Laura has been a member of the
Students’ Council for the last two
years, being second Vice-President
in her first year and Freshmen
representative this year. Last year
she was chosen along with Bill
Hagen and Marty MacDonald to
serve on the Maleolm Honor Committee.

Laura is a fourth year Science
student and hopes for some kind of
work after
Before then, however, she will be

hands of the Y.M.C.A. Seniors in a
hard-fought basketball game to the
tune of 41-28. The Tigers were led
by Coach “Burnie” Ralston who rapped in’ 12 points. Hart came next
with 4 points. The high scorer of
the game was Preisler of the “Y”
who massed 29 points, one more
than the whole Dal team was able
to get.

The game opened with both teams
feeling their way along. Farquhar
opened the scoring for Dal on a
break from center floor after the Y
had succeeded in getting 2 baskets.
The Tigers were behind 10 points
when Coach Ralston entered the
game and the Tigers began to fight
back. It was in the first half that
Ensign Preisler of the U. S. Navy,
playing for the Association squad
rapped in 19 of his 29 points. None
of the Dal players could seem to
stop his scoring spree, even though
several of them tried. Towards the
end of the first half the Tigers began to catch up but at half-time
were still trailing by 12 points.

In the second half the Tigers put

on a determined effort to check the,

Y’s scoring power.
ers were held down except Preisler
who succeeded in outwitting Greene
to rap in 5 baskets during this half.

photographie department of this
years “Pharos”.

Last year Laura was named the
winner of the Khaki Scholarship,

symbolic of highest scholastic stand
.ing in third year Arts and Science.

During her year at Dalhousie she
has mixed athletics and _ studies,
proving once again that successful
students can find time to engage in

graduating. | extra-curricula activities with profit

both to themselves as well as to the

kept busy as she is in charge of the} University.

Say

Schwark

ETT MY Ys I

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking

Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

All the Y play-.

cobac

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

EATON’S

Well Tailored
Sport Coats

For Men and Young Men

Each

15.00 to
92.50

OTH men and young men

will find smartly styled,
well tailored sport coats in
this group at EATON’S!...
They come in two and three
button styles and are finished
with peaked or notched lapers. ... Of good quality
materials. Sizes in the range
—35 to 42; and a choice of
colours and fabrics,

EKaton’s Men’s Wear Department

Main Floor
KS.
LIMITED

“T. EATON

RiIiTIME S

Wy,
Lines, LE Zi Le Us
EEE
OG

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

ae J E ! |

Zi areas =

Don’

Wont
: 7). I 
Ss
Poe ‘
_ Forget
“iy 2 <a :

Raat Gy 5
ace oS “f ,

- Dal Gym, Fri. Feb. 18.

Tickets From Any Member of Commerce Society

ts: MILLIONAIRES BALL 
_ J. NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA

wh

5
%

i $1.25 COUPLE

a

 
