   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
    
 
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
     
    
    
   
    
   
  
  
   
  

 

 

~ geason.

} 1. With no editor for the Year

Book secured as yet, it was
decided to hold a special meeting of those interested among
the student body.

2 A gold D will be presented to
Tom Patterson past pres. of
the Council.

Nominated the Malcom award
gg ee consisting of Dr.
G. E. Wilson and Dr. Hugh
Bell of the faculty, and Carl
Little, Barbara White and Arthur Titus.

Also decided to Rouroach the
University to have the library
kept open later at night, until 11 o’clock, a move thought
necessary because of added
outside work for students.
Budgets were discussed at the
meeting, including those for
the Glee Club, basketball, badminton, hockey, Gazette, Sodales, and the band. Because
of the interest in hockey,
which was shelved last year
a new budget was presented
for it. Dalhousie will enter
into a league with St. Mary’s
and King’s.

Music Club Has

Successful Meeting

Last Saturday the Dalhousie Musie Club held its first meeting of the
The meeting was conducted by Mr. R. Bedford, Head of the
Piano Department of the Halifax
Conservatory of Music. who kindly
consented to direct the weekly meetings of the Club during this term.
Mr. Bedford, a man with initiative
and spirit and a very excellent
pianist. introduced the program
items with very interesting and
witty remarks which scored also a
stimulus for a very informal and
livvely discussion. The program itself consisted of recorded light
classical music. It was hoped that
local and guest artists will honor
the Club with their presence at future meetings.

The main purpose of the Club, it
was reiterated, is to provide entertainment on Saturday nights when
theatres and dance halls are generally overcrowded. The program of
every evening is to be posted on the
various bulletin boards on the Campus. Everybody interested is cordjally invited to our future meetings.

U. A. T. C. NOTES

The U.A.T.C has a visit this week
from Flight Lieutenant Firby, Command University: Air Training
Corps Officer. He was on an inspection tour of U.A.T.C, Squadron
of the different colleges.

The V.A.T.C lost three of its active members. Corporals D, C. Johnson and N. M. Swain, and A.C.2 E.
A. Merry, who have transferred to
the Spepcial Reserve of the R.C.A.F.
and we wish them a swift progress

 

to the completion of their courses in

_ aircrew training.

‘The following have been promoted

po the rank of sergeants—R. E. Jefey, W. A. a and A, a Stew
DAL S. C. M. OFFICIALS [Interest Shown In

THE OLDEST COLLEGE

 

 

‘HALIFAX, N. 58., JANUARY 21, 1944

Gazette

PAPER IN AMERICA

No. 11

 

At OHIO CONFERENCE Homestead Discussions

25 Nations Represented

By MARGARET FARQUHAR and JOAN ARCHIBALD

From December 28th to January 3rd we had the privilege
of attending a conference of North American students on the

World Mission of the Church.

There gathered at Wooster

College in the small city of Wooster, Ohio, five hundred college
students from every part of the United States, from Canada,
from Mexico, and répresentatives of twenty-one other countries ;
students with a real concern for the world dilemmas confronting
us today, with definite convictions, a common belief, a faith and
a new determination to do their utmost for a suffering humanity

in this torn and shaken world.

The conference was sponsored
by the Student Christian Movement of Canada with fellow orgainzations in the United States, and
to Wooster came students from all
over this continent. There was a
Canadian delegation of about thirty
students from the major universities

jin Canada from the University of

British Columbia to Dathousie. We
had a number of Canadian delegation meetings, and really came to
know our fellow Canadians.

It’s exciting to share your room
with a girl from Iowa, and to live
down the hall from a girl from the
Argentine; to walk to chapel with a
boy from Madras or to talk shop
with a student from Cashmere; to
take notes in meetings beside someone from a Japanese re-location
centre or to square dance with a
negro from Georgia. It’s fun, too,
to meet somebody different each day
at lunch, and find thab you have so
much in common with students from
such. varied backgrounds and cultures, You enjoy sitting next to a
boy from Cuba and finding out that
he knows all about Nova Scotia and
so you have an interesting conversation about codfish! It’s just as much
fun singing songs and dancing at
the Students’ Union Building with
a Navajo Indian from California as
you do discussing and comparing
your university entrance requirementsa with a Negro girl from the
Tuskegee Institute. We did not look
alike. We belonged to many races
with different backgrounds. Some
of our native countries were warring against each other. Yet there
was a unity at Wooster which transeended barriers of race and prejudice. We realized that when people
came together primarily as Christians then nationalism and color
cease to separate them.

International Problems Aired

The challenge of the conference
was the need in the world, presented
to us by men and women who had
seen and felt that need; Raymond
Drukker, who has spent his life
among the poor whites of the Kentucky Mountains, Karl Downs, negro
president of Samuel Houston College, Texas, who has felt all his life
the sting of racial prejudice and
discrimination, Tracy Strong, who
visits the prisoner of war camps in
Europe. The need of the world is
inconceivably great. It is here on
this continent that the resources of
*|leadership to deal with this need are
te be found. |
The. study of the conference was

. three s sctions. In our

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
  
 

ok Tae parts

  

 

Killed Overseas

metre eee Benn te ee Re re RET Tt

 

S|L EDGAR GOOD

Word has been received by Mr. and
Mrs. Joseph Good, 17 Queens Road,
Valois, Quebec, that their son, Squadron Leader Edgar Good (above) 29,
was killed on Active Service Nov. 13.
He was buried overseas in Bircham
Newton, Norfolk, England, Nov. 18.
Squadron Leader Good was an Engineering student at Dalhousie from
1932-32, and while here made many
friends both on the campus and in
the city. He also atended McGill
University, then went to England
several years before the war with a
commission in the R.A.F. He rose
steadily in its ranks during the seven
years he was a,member of the British organization. In October of
last year he transferred to the R.C.
A.F., and at the time of his death
was the leader of an air-sea rescue
squadron. Besides his parents, he

is survived by his wife and an month.

old son, who live in England.

 

GOVERN YOURSELF

Tonight at 8.30:

Reunion in gymnasium sponsored
by the Alumni Association. Aim:
for old Dalhousians, new and graduating students to get acquainted.

Open House at Shirreff Hall:
Saturday night, January 22.

Classics Club—this evening at 8 p.m.

Dal swimming enthusiasts will practice Monday and Wednesday evenings at 9.30 in the “Y” pool in

preparation for the forthcoming

swimming vet at Acadia.

I al fa

{stead on

nb,” Meeting on SunUO ¢ am, nar 8. M. aM ‘

~

Aa u?
bie Ae

   

The second meeting of the discussion group “Of Things to Come”
took place in the Murray HomeTuesday evening. The
topic for the evening was “The
School Comes First,” a survey of
educational problems in Canada.
This week’s national broadcast originated in St. John. and among the
leading educational authorities from
the Maritimes, participating in the
discussion were Colonel Rogers, Mr.
Trueman and Mr. Callahan, prominent figures in P. E. I. and N. B.
educational circles.

More than 20 Dalhousians turned
out—an exceptional attendance for
a meeting of this sort. Although
the members were able to reach rather general conclusions as to the
policy to be adopted in Canada’s future educational program, one problem of prime importance to Mr. McAllister and to the members was
left unsolved. This was the problem of providing tea and refreshment for the members. without
which it was feared that the proper
atmosphere for the discussions
could not be maintained. A committee was appointed to look into
the subject and to try to remedy the
lamentable situation before the next
meeting.

The topic for discussion next
Tuesday is “A Man’s Own Castle,”
a survey of homes and housing.
The meetings are open to any Dal.
students who are interested in their
own and Canada’s future. The
place is the Murray Homestead, the
time Tuesday. January 25th, at 9:00
p.m.

 

Glee Club Plans

Ambitious Program

Last Saturday at a joint meeting
Committees, it was decided that Wednesday night from 7-11 p.m. is to be
“Glee Club Night.” This means
that D.A.A.C. has been changed to
The Glee Club
wishes to thank Mr. Ralston for relinquishing Wednesday night and
also wishes to point out that this
action will give D.A.A.C. more time
in the Gymnasium, as they will be
given permission to use “Glee Club
Night” as often as possible.

The Glee Club is presenting within the next month, four one-act
plays in competition for the Connolly Shield. These are being produced
by Arts and Sci., Delta Gamma, Pi
Beta Phi and Shirreff Hall. Mrs.
Karl Clarke, the well known Halifax
director, is again directing the 3Act Play which will be presented in
March. The complete program has
not been outlined as yet due to a
reduction of over $150.00 in the budget. This necessitates a complete
readjustment in the policy of the
Glee Club. this being the first time
in many years that the budget has
been so low. However. as it affects
a larger percent. of Dalhousians
than any other activity, with enthusiasm and co-operation, a highly

of Student and Senate Gym.

Saturday night.

acceptable eee will be present
‘ ry

    

dor . % y . : ,

   

see Nita Rosenblum for Dal
|Delta Gamma to Accelerate

War-Work Activities

Hall Open House January 22nd

Attention all mies
warning to the men—?

Delta Gamma hereby issues fair
— of Dal, that plans are rapidly going

forward for the Sadie Hawkins Dance to be held on the 25th of
February. And, might we warn all unsuspecting freshmen, to
say nothing of those gullible upperclassmen, that aside from
having the go-ahead signal from the heads of Delta Gamma to
proceed in the customary Sadie Hawkins manner, Dal girls even
have Father Time on their side, for, though there may be reports to the contrary, this, dear children, is Leap Year, and just
you wait till the Dal girls start to leap!

Claims Arts and
Science Still Alive

By “Artsman’’

“Best gym dance I’ve ever attended”; “A really good party”; “A
very successful dance.” Comments
like these more than repaid the Arts
and Science Society for their herculean efforts in presenting their first
dance in a number of years. The
enthusiasm shown warrants the
Hop’s becoming an annual event.

Dr. Bell and daughter Janet with
Dr. and Mrs. Archibald graciously
received at the beginning of the
dance, assisted by Jean Macdonald,
President of the Society; Gordon
Sears, Drummond Fraser. VicePresident, and Ann Mackley.

Jerry Naughler’s 9-piece orchestra kept feet tapping, and during
intermission John Maclellan led a
rousing sing-song. The winner of
the door prize was announced by
Gordon Hart to be Merril Macleod.
The prize was a ticket to the Boilermakers’ Ball.

The dance committee—Irma MacQuarrie, Jean Macdonald. Ann
Saunderson, Alan Blakney and John
Maclellan were assisted by Joan
MacInnis, Anita Rosenblum, Marg.
Macpherson, Gordon Hart, Art.
Hartling, Bob Macdonald, Alcorn
Munro, Clarie Fraser, Larry Sutherland, Les Maclean and Neil McKelvie,

Who said the Arts and Sejence
Society was dead? ?

 

Dal Women Debaters
Lose Out To Acadia

Dalhousie women were defeated by
an outstanding team of. debaters
from Acadia on Thursday night.
Representing Acadia were Marg.
McInnes and Elaine Small who upheld the negative of the resolution
:ithat the principal of competition
has retarded the progress of the
world.” Terry Monaghan and Pat
Ryan debated for Dalhousie. Marg
McInnes of the Acadia team was the
outstanding debater of the evening.

Very few students attended this
debate and-it is to be hoped that
more spirit will be shown and more
support be given when the Dalhousie
women debate with Mount St. Vincent next on their schedule.

A small informal reception was
held after the debate. Judges were:
Rev. J. A. McKeigan, Mrs. Carl
Clark, and Mr. G. E. Martin.

Managers were: Joyce Burton, for

    

fed King was chairman. —

 

 

ew

The Sadie Hawkins Dance has always been in the opinion of many
supporters of Delta Gamma one of
the most popular and_ successful
dances of the college year. Last
year the gym doors were flung open
to reveal every character, ranging
from Mammy Yokum to Marryin’
Sam, all having the time of their
lives! So “eome sons of old Dalhousie”, drag out those old plaid
shirts, pin a few patches on your
oldest pair of pants,—we mean the
ones you wear to classes, and let’s
see how those “men of steel and
steam” stand up to Dalhousie’s pride
and joy — that once-called weaker
sex! Jerry Naugler’s orchestra will
be in attendance, and the corsages
—vegetables of course—and refreshments will be “on the girls”! Remember then, the Sadie Hawkins
Dance on February 25th, and brush
the hair from out of your eyes, and
who knows you may bet an invitation!

ae S&S
WAR SERVICES ORGANIZE

At the first meeting of Delta
Gamma to be held in the new year
on Tuesday, war services work was
the first topic of discussion. First aid
and Home Nursing classes are
scheduled to start soon, and the
president Sue Morse reported that
many knitted articles have already
been handed in to Mis MacKeen, and
asked those who still had knitting
out, to finish and return it as soon
as possible. Mrs. Hope of W.V.S.
came to sign up more girls for Voluntary Services in such. things as
Canteen and Magazine Exchange.
The girls’ responce to the appeal was
most gratifying.

Next on the agenda, was the
question of holding an Open House,
which needless to say was passed by
a unanimous vote. The Open House
is to be held next Saturday night at
the Hall, and all Dal students and
their escorts are cordially invited
to attend. Delta Gamma also plans
to hold a dance in February for
members of the services—(not the
O.T.C.)—some of whom greatly appreciated a similar’ dance held by
Delta Gamma last year. The president brought up the matter of the
second Blood Donor Clinic to be held
in February and congratulated Delt
Gamma on holding one of the highet percentages of blood donations in
the drive before Christmas. So,
after much deciding and planning ~
for the near future, Dal’s only allgirl society adjourned.

Exam Hangover

Backward turn, backward,
O Time in thy flight,

And tell me just one thing
I studied last\ night!

 

 
 
 
 
 
   

aper in America” E GAZETTE are those of
represent the opinion of

  

   

  

ey if etaew othe es eal pacly des Ce ee .Ted Shields
ae ees trees See eecieceins wee ee ae .Kevin Barry
ae ate dated . o% or eee S <a. eidigce x ee .Jim McLaren
ree ee ee een eee ‘ * ..Bob McCleave, Eileen Phinney ‘
See: Bie du tc whine es Reeser ewe ee eee eee Bill Pope
UR ye oe Lois eee on See eee mee eee .Lou Collins
Vawebuka via ivseaciceves tusevelrey, H, MacDonald
ae Bites a eee sieve ee eee eR seee . Laurie Smith
BO ices t iis sect eA ee+ 554 ++<2e.00Dn Hibbetts
Campbell, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley
‘imball, Betty Atkins, Marg Morrison

 
  

   

  

   
 

APOLOGY FOR J.H.L.

really didn’t mean it that way! General misall around seem to have clouded reception of
oll” editorial last week, and we are sincerely sorry.
work of the Alumni Association, President Stanley,
joard of Governors, in assembling, at great trouble
erable expense, the names, addresses and class years
-members of the University has perhaps not been
realized. For nearly a year the University has been
‘information on its sous in the services. Nearly three
lollars have been spent in correspondence, and on the
ews” whose two issues have carried many pages of
ans fighting for their country. One member of the
ity Office staff spends every day adding to, and revising,
. Copies have been sent both to the ex-students’
and whereever possible to the men themselves, in hope
ng further information. Several hundred copies have
n distributed free on the campus.
Gazette had no desire to slight the vast and difficult
eing carried on by the University. President Stanley and
Jumni deserve the greater credit for tackling this for: task so quietly that few on the campus knew it was
‘way. What the Gazette did advocate, and what may soon
rected, is a temporary Honor Roll, or Honor Scroll, conig the names of every student who has entered the armed
vices, arranged, as far as possible, in classes, Metal tablets,
‘se, are not only impossible to obtain at present, and the
$ prohibitive, but they are also impractical while the list
lete, as-it will be until the war is won. But parchment
with neatly-lettered names, and symbols for casualties
rations, are easily obtainable, and framed and given a
t place in one of the campus buildings they would
a Suitable reminder of former students now in the foreof the United Nations march to Victory.
No. University has given a greater proportion of its stuts and faculty to the war effort, and the task which Uniity and Alumni authorities have undertaken of assembling
names and services is indeed a herculean one. Without
this great effort, of course, such a temporary Honor Roll as
‘we have suggested would be impossible. As the culmination of
work, it would be a fitting tribute to Dalhousie’s fighting

 
 

 

 
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
     

 
  

  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   

   

?

 
   
 
    

 
  
      
 
 
 
 

        
  
 
   
     
   
   
    
   

    

 

>

“THERE ARE MORE THINGS...”

_ The pale November sun flickered feebly through the disantled trees on the campus of Calder University, and an
ngly frolicsome wind was stripping the remaining leaves
th Only a few strag
ing them skyward in a swirling dance.
y, book-laden figures, backs bent to the wind, saved the
nus from ertion..

  

 

_ Joan Thurber, blown around the corner of the Library,
to adjust more snugly the kerchief on her head. On

e path ahead of her, she saw an elderly man, standing, and
ondered why anyone should choose to stand still on such a
ndy day, and in such a place. “Perhaps he’s lost his way”
ught, and approaching, greeted him, “Good afternoon,

elp you?” “Thank you, no. I’m waiting for Daina.
eet her here.” “Daina,” mused Joan to herself,
his grandaughter ... What a beautiful expression on
+. You are new at Calder?” asked the old gentleman.
im,” replied Joan. “Then you wouldn’t know Daina,
ke her—she’s wonderful.” “Well,

 

     

  

   
 
 
 
   
   

 
 
     
     
 

d 0 i "t have: 0 wait much longer”, smiled
(on. “Daina” she thought, “never heard of

ber that name; then her thought reverted
2 of the afternoon, — Dr. Dobson certainly
.. . “There are more things in heaven and
n are dreamt of in your philosophy”...
to hear that read as “Dobbie” read it. . .

    
  
 
 
  

ae: WS A DE

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
    
   
  
 

e| =. Ain’t got

    
  
  

      
 
   

ial
7

,

. ?

| Tue "PROGRESS" OF CADET HARDGRIEF

    
 
 
   
 
   

 
    
   

  
  
  

    
  
 
    

  

eo >

re
23 a

   

ma ee i a
Sui ve > Gro

_ = BR Ay Bai
peo alee de oe GrRoove

      
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

HOUSECLEAN THE C.0.T.C.

The simmering cauldron of dissatisfaction with the present
C.O.T.C. system, which has been growing more and more apparent on Dominion college campi, at last seems to be coming
to a boil. A certain amount of grousing is always expected in
any organization based on discipline and hard work. Often sumh
petty “peeves” are welcomed as a sign of good morale, but when
the principal of one of Canada’s greatest universities publicly
attacks the C.O.T.C., and hints its training is ‘“‘a waste of time’,
something is définitely wrong. When the official publication of
the Canadian Engineering Institute, numbering thousands of
Canadian engineers among its readers, demands ‘What is
wrong with the C.O.T.C.?” it is clear the quéstion has passed
from the “bull-session” discussion stage to the forum of public
opinion, and action. |

There must be no misunderstanding on the part of the
public that college students resent the idea of military training.
Most male students graduating from universities have every
intention of joining one of the armed services at the earliest
popssible moment; many have joined before the completion of
their courses. Canadian students are fully aware of the dangers
threatening their country while Hitler stalks madly through
Europe and the Japanese hold sway in the Pacific as any group
of citizens in the Dominion. BUT, as Dr. Cyril James, Principal of McGill, said in his now-famous speech, “there is a growing
resentment against the montony of the present syllabus and
against the attitude of the army aruthorities as a whole”.
University students are accustomed to pursuing their studies
towards some goal. Each year of college life brings a sense
of another step taken, another quota of knowledge gained,
towards a certain end, whether it be an LL.B., a B.Sc., and
M.D., a B.Comm., or any one of a dozen degrees. This philosophy of working to a purpose is an essential part of college life.
It is one of the basic reasons, we believe, why university undergraduates, “on the average more intelligent than other groups
of young men”, are extremely dissatisfied, nay, disgusted, with
the C.0.T.C. Six hours a week, thirty weeks a‘ year, for four
years, is probably about the average time a student spends on
any one class. It is also the time he spends in C.O.T.C. The
difference, the essential difference, is that in four years, the
student follows a subject from its most elementary to its most
advanced stage, and graduates with a knowledge which will
provide a solid foundation for his career. In the C.O.T.C., he
spends the same amount of time repeating over and over the
basic training of the first six months, and at the end of four
years leaves college with some elementary military knowledge
for which he is allowed no credit on entering the armed forces.

If the C.0.T.C. is to serve any useful purpose, if it is to
make any return for the valuable time it consumes, it must be
overhauled now. Whose “baby” is the C.0.T.C.? No authority
seems to have a final word on syllabus changes. Some universities have been able to reduce time requirements, some have
almost eliminated this training in the senior year. Second-year
Meds at Dalhousie were finally able, by a long and devious route,
to gain a reduction “perhaps temporary” in their hours. Senior
year men in other faculties continue to take six hours drill per
week with freshmen. The problem is not confined to Dalhousie
campus, It is nation-wide, and national authorities must deal

with it, and make reforms to be applied uniformly to every
campus in Canada!

*

So rtp

of no other author, has never forgotten his years here, and has
shown by his gifts, his interest in Calder. Donald Proctor died
yesterday afternoon. To the world of literature the loss is
irreparable ; to me it is a personal one, for we were classmates
and friends. His wife, who until her death last year, had been
a wonderful helpmate to him, was also a graduate of this uni
versity, and will be remembered by my contemporaries as Diana
Sherwood...”

Joan Thurber heard no more. She felt herself tremble, and
her breath came shallowly, as she heard again that voice, “I’m
waiting for Daina, I always wait for her here.” It simply
couldn’t be; they’d think her insane if she told anyone. She
must get out. “Excuse -me,” she mumbled as she reached the
aisle, and swiftly, the door. She stood on the steps, and tears
misted the scene before her. “There are more things in heaven
and earth” ... she whispered, and added “I know you met her.”

A LITERARY APPEAL “A LA MODE”

_I met Mr. Kelly on the Campus today.
He howdys and to him I did say—
. “My columns hiHing low, low, low,
got no hay to mow, mow, mow,
what's up?” says he, this rug-bug man __.
kids”, I says “just don’t give a de

: :
SAV | Rg t or the bit’’

 

a =

 

 

  

 

PORMAYER’S NAVY... CUT

   

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

   

 

It Takes All Kinds

If it were not for the sales
of gem diamonds, the price
of industrial diamonds would
rise.

   

After any Show

 
    

Or ..-s

 
    
   

Before any Meal

  
 

In other words, one gem
diamond provides three industrial diamonds for
work.

 
 

war

    
 

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

   
     
       
 
 
 

Barrington St., Halifax. N. 8S.

 

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

   
         

   

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

   

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE
ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Halhowsie Uniuersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, °
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leadi
of M.A., M.Sc. 8, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculti
Course in Public Administration. meee

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and

the courses, rane .

The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about

2 $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year. a

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
  

  

   
 
 

   
     
  
  
   
  
  
     
   
 
 
   
   

Ve ea, & oc See
- i fens i . are a _-* aD Y me ys : :
“aa Te ee We i iy
A Pate. ae YY er oo fi

re i
mi ntlt vee a emi f Gs
ah a, Bo eee Ne.
nm Ronald Hartz left the

office

'
‘

  

after his interview
d successful admittance to col__ lege, he made his way to his small
_ Yoom in his boarding house on
8 yuth ‘Street, anxious and eager to
see who ‘the students were that
' would be there. His landlady, a
_ huge creature of the fictitional type,
~ with a vague manner (she got her
_ rent just the same) and a childish’
_ enthusiasm at his adventures, bustl_ ed up to ask the fifty-year-old freshPit, pees how he had fared.
7 When he had recounted the day’s
- adventures she took him into the
living room to introduce him to

>
wat

   
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
  

ae at

three dazed examples of humanity
| who were welcoming the new college
, i “year. Bob Flier, Moncton, was a
# freshman of 18 with a cheeky,
cheery manner which rather indifffs erently hid his forebodings of what
ea _ the day —and sophomores — would
{ bring. A handsome youth, with an
undertone of pimples, he was death
_ on the weaker sex in his home town,
_ but the freshettes at Dalhousie were
already beginning to awe him.

Ly
=i

Bretoner and medical student, was

UNIVERSALITY

 

“Sandy” MacDonald, typical Cape

sitting glumly in one corner, trying

to get enthused over a stray eomic
book, and thinking of the grind
ahead in his second year.
over-nervous youth, with a high

A tall,

giggle, it was just another Dalhousie autumn to him.

The third was a girl, a pleasantlyplump girl, a typical Dalhousie girl,
Marjorie Stewart. They try to ‘be

glamorous in the fads of the day,

like all women are susceptible to the
ruling qualms and fashions than
they are to common sense, and so
looked like a huge doll in an unswept hair style which had added
to it a curley-cue bow of hair on
top, making her seem the typically
over-dressed radish, or co-ed. She
was a pleasant girl, in her 25’s, and
though one who never gave up on
the struggle for glamour and icy

sophistication, she nevertheless gave

forth radiant sparks of humanity
which took Hartz’s eye to her at
once.

Flier, as the only other freshman,

 

ue bea SCIENCE—INSIDE THE TEST TUBE

 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
 

>> i By _ The most. outstanding difference

i
t

- sf r oe. as > md £
A in an intellectual vacuum by which
Gi

built out of a few simple

thoughts.
much that the problem, viewed horizontally is much different than from

between Science and Arts is that in

‘the thought behind them. To the Scientist, there is the mysterious mental
“gymnasti¢s of INDUCTION, to the Artsman it is DEDUCTION. Actually
the distinction is a lot of piffle; there is no such thing as a clear black
and white distinction between the sciences and the arts, in the background
Ae which elicits them. Pure induction depends on a series of mental strains

all known principles are supposedly
The two shade into each other so

the vertical, or you in your compartment and | in mine, theorizing.

  
  
 
 
    

ie)
be ss develop,
ae % _Man’s imaginations

Science is a mixture of stuff and nonsense. The more stuil we

the less nonsense there should be.
keep ahead in his relative unignorance by vast leaps

~ and bounds. The shortest distance between two points is not a straight

Actually this is not the case.

He ime, as we knew it, but the trivial traipsings of leprechaums in a fourth

aan | ee

 
 

hd

‘dimension. Be not confused; weak men of the world have retreated to

| i its mystic comforts to the edification of a handful of mankind, and the

 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

| ee

It goeth swiftly.

7
{
H +0 was

ie

universe.
_ Seriously, Scientists are
theory of middle-age science

é

= he dim religious light the church

and lay. f

Eas, ye.’ A scientist is a curious person. mixi
© aleohol in his laboratory, he must come home and explain to his wife
that all he has done is for the good of mankind; this prevents him being
jailed for drinking, and allows his red nose to go as a rampant, rampaging banner for future conquests of the unknown glories of the mysterious

hero worship of others. Actually the fourth dimension may be explained

, in one word: h to a bod

in one word: TIME. If you have length, breadth and dept y;
"and have not TIME to it, it is nothing. For example, my pay cheque.

Busily spending the days mixing

our greatest searchers for truth. The old
taking up a searching, yearning quest for
the Philosopher’s Stone we will explode as so much bunk. Faced with

threw over scientific study in tose

the real scientists had to resort to mumbo-jumbo to be able to carry
out their work in peace and security from the local lords, eeclesiastic

One of the greatest and most controversial theories they have put

| forth is the idea that man came down from animals somewhat resembling

 
 
 
  
 
  

our modern baboons.
at man just became.

rs here and deserts there?

This is contrary to the views of many religions,
The results should speak for themselves.

We will now delve into a few sciences: |

- Geology: what makes deltas? what makes mountains? what puts

he. I don’t know; I’ve never taken the course.

rive
Chemistry: here a master idea has developed. Man may come out of

 
 
 

st tubes yet, that is, if chemistry will lend the test-tubes to bio-chemisr, biology and zoology which are working: in cahoots towards that happy

Bs end. Just think of it: to adopt-a child all you have to do is inspect a
a i ieee ‘of sealed containers, with red labels for boys, and blue labels for

  
  
  
  
   
 
   
    
  
 

Meta
Is, :
- Physics: mechanics,
‘this course will tell you. How
t |

moondust exert on

i mee for an engagement ring.
. e it A *\) ; f
‘ er

iin). Mathematics: this is the basis

- Bacteriology: cute little devils, aren’t they?

as is the customary way of distinguishing the sexes. /

not Frank Sinatra, makes the world go RO-und,
much pull does an infinitestimal portion
the fair eyes of an earth-bound, heaven gazing girl?
it out by Physics, my friend. It isn’t much; the last time I tried
. work out the problem it cost me$l5andthousands of soap wrappers

of all science. You can’t do much

glish

uf s
n

ict 3 ri ; ith it. is it from here,
Ns, _ without it, and engineers can’t do much with it. How far is it fro

  
    

. _ something

  
   
  
   
  
 

concluded.

and Sciences.
between the two.
if ~ nasium steps, 5

c
te

to there: mathematics will supply the answer.

Everybody should know

about math; the married couple will be interested in mateematics, a financial juggling to make their budgets balance. Write in for
the course, free, to the editor of this page, and he’ll send you the answer.
~ 'Scienc : We have now given introductory lectures to Arts
It is now well to make the final and important distniction
‘Take it bravely: face the Library standing on the Gymttled. Well, Arts is to the left, Science to the right.
ou can’t go wrong. But watch out for English II.

ar.

    
     

 

   

  

 

eT

faultily shifted the conversation
around to the dance at Shirreff Hall
that night, and that initiation which
an up-to-date sophomore class had
planned afterwards. Of course Flier
wasn’t nervous—it was just a laugh
to him—and, anyway, he asked timidly, “they don’t do as much as you
read about them, do they?” The
others assured him that he wouldn’t
be disappointed, and his face brightened up while his spirits sank. King
rooster of his own set at home, he
had the usual fear of the dictator
dictated to.

Their reveries and day-dreams
about college life were interrupted
as a host of reporters and camera-men from two Halifax papers burst
into the room. Quick to scent a human interest story, the boys had
made the jump in fast taxis as soon
as they got the tip from a Dalhousie
student. Hartz was the centre of
their conversation and it was the
usual type of interview. 3

Having disposed of his _ background, elicting some facts about
his military career, they asked him
what he thought of college. Not
having been at Dalhousie for more
than half an hour, he was perfectly
qualified to say nothing. Both papers stretched this into three paragraphs, one paper exceeding itself
so far as to predict “with the un
shaken confidence of old age, and a.

stream of experience at fending his
own way through life, Hartz will be
asuccessful student as a successful
farmer.”

“When asked what he planned to
do at college, he said, ‘to study.’
Further interviewed on his plans
for extra-curricular activities, he
hoped to join the Dalhousie Gazette
and the Effective Speaking Club.”

Actually, Hartz was far from being as confidednt as he was painted
to be. He had no illusions how a
host of young people would greet
him, and he also knew that college
life and study was different from
the schooling he had; at his age, it
would be difficult to teach an old
dog new tricks.

His fears were not erased at the
dance at Shirreff Hall that night.
With no partners, a few sophomore
cutups to urge him into the dance,
and a poor foot for the newest
styles, he wished he was back milking Botsie, who after all was a well
bred cow. But this was not the
worst,
In initiation he was asked to

make love to a freckled co-ed, to
kiss the girl, and to tell her that
meansbeams were but the paltry
glimmerings of fire-flies compared
to the light that shone in her eyes.
He shifted uneasily, knees on the
floor, opposite the girl, who was an

unwilling victim thought that. after |

all the initiation committee might

have given her that handsome fresh
man with the wavy blonde hair.
(To be continued)

 

 

Impressions And
Depressions

The vicious and undisciplined first
year students. Good, my friends,
hear how Harvey Earle wandered
long and late in the confines of West
End? Now when one sees him pass,
one says, if his direction be right,
“The ghost goes tonight.’ And all
is mystery and psychosis.

There is another ghost, and this
ghost, like the first, inhabits West
End, but, unlike the first, has haunted dances. It is also known to quafit
cotoa at the unseemly hour of 1.00
a.m. He is called “The Melancholy
Dane” when he acts his part at
night. Beneath his moustache, he’s
still Lindsay.

a a 2

And now there is a fourth year
class. They have a demeanour like
that of grandfather’s, which arises,
they say, from much studying, not
from many children. A full year and
a half ahead of the following class
in medicine, they are the old men of
the campus, and they say they deserve the title, for they are veterans of much grimness.

The rumour that the summer
term for medical students may be
cancelled has been received with
mixed feelings by those students
concerned, or, rather, it has been
received for some time with mixed
feelings, for it is an old rumour.
It is said that a persistent rumour
is more likely to be true than one
sporadic, but all must await the
confirmation, for the matter
seems still uncertain.

x oO '

The matter of the Med. Ball is
soon to be considered. Since it is
likely that students of a powerful
faculty will hold such an affair, it
seems more a matter of when than
if. Hence this writer has been asked
to suggest that medical students
support the dance by attendng.. .|
as if such a suggestion were not en- |
tirely superfluous!

* * *

The new and lighter syllabus of
military training for medical students is proving much more satisfactory than the old. The students
thank all those persons of the university and’ of the military who
have made the lighter hours possible.

GARRICK

Saturay - Monday - Tuesday

“MY KINGDOM FOR A COOK”
CHARLES COLBOURNE

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“THE RAINS CAME”
and
“UNDER TWO FLAGS”

 

Basil Winters

LIMITED

383 BARRINGTON STREET

@

Now Showing

MAS ot —
\ 
7

"4
“@ }
) */

coh, a

 
  
  

In) ain. ab © AA

| MEN'S SUITS AND
FURNISHINGS

ze i .
os J : ‘ ae ; é ‘
» ms *
° ah i. tek”) tek}
at oe A. A ae c i‘ ‘. =
" a. ets Laie ‘a. 2 J a
pi

ee “-_ nt

Patt Ts) Bel deer ket
ea aie

NI.OUTSID

 

  

  

Fae alee

at: r - Bs ae 1 - ial} f
ry +,

Ge

 

E FIELD

First Answer To Contest Comes

_|From Interested Trenton Citizen
First response to our contest, “What to do with Hitler” :

after the war is won, comes from Trenton, N. S., citizen George

Mousso, whose reply is sent to The Halifax Herald, in which’

an account of the contest appeared giving it province-wide
publicity, originator of the contest, Bob McCleave, feature editor
of the Gazette, is also a member of The Herald staff, and to his
surprise found Mr. Musso’s letter addressed to the latter paper.

Mr. Mousso hasn’t given an answer—yet. He wants to
know where to send it. He writes, “Kindly advise to send the
answer to you or to Mr. R. J. McCleave or to E. J. Shields,
Windsor, about old Hitler—what to do with him after the war.”
An answer will be despatched to Mr. Mousso, with the fervent
hope that he, along with others interested, will send an answer.

Originally the contest was planned for Daihousie students.
A little outside competition might help keep the ball rolling,
and to have a thousand fates for Hitler instead of the odd halfdozen the campus might elicit.

Cash prizes are being awarded for the best answers,. and
three winning entries will be announced in the final issue of the
Gazette. All students, professors and the rest of this campus
may join in the contest; it will also be extended to Dalhousie
Alumni and Alumnae, and any citizens who may be interested.

So let Hitler’s head fall where it may, or let him—well, you
do the oo Let’s hear from you. Answers published as
received.

CASINO

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday
January 22, 24, 25

“GIVE OUT
SISTERS”

 

 

 

Capitol
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

PAT O'BRIEN

Starring in
The Andrews Sisters
é 2
— Plus — ‘The Iron Major”

“SO’S YOUR UNCLE”

Donald Woods — Elyse Knox
Billie Burke

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

 

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
January 26, 27, 28

“CITY WITHOUT MEN”
Linda Darnell - Edgar Buchanan

BETTE DAVIS

in

— Plus —

6éqy . 9
Hal Roach’s “CALABOOSE” Old Acquaintance

 

 

That Glia Somithing!

... YOu can
spot it every time

oe dry cold air and the exertion of
skiing bring a mighty thirst. Ask an
expert ski instructor what’s the perfect
drink to find at the end of a ski run. Icecold Coca-Cola. For ice-cold Coca-Cola
not only quenches thirst, it adds
refreshment.

A quality drink made the
quality way, Coca-Cola offers
refreshment in its finest
form. A special blend of
flavours gives it a taste all its
own. Your own experience, many a refreshing
experience, tells you the
best isalwaysthe better buy.

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
 
 

“Ice-cold Coca-Cola” in the midst
oficeand snow! Ski enthusiasts will
tell you that’s when it’s mighty welcome. Coke offers real refreshment.

  
     
   

The best §
is always
the better
buy!

a
Nn
Cateren na

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, \LIMITED
MAUIPAN oo ae

a el Spr a Ni | lena
=" : ™ rn - a cae AS = iI
Laake eee : : -_

Page Three

\
Ae Ce
As 5

a
a
ae ois

 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  

jig year ‘have authorized $255.00
: | MORE to the hockey team than to
-| the basketball team. It seems like
quite a difference. One way in
which the Council cut down the basketball budget was by entirely
throwing out the very important—
almost essential—item of meals. _
Being a former hockey player
‘ourself and having a keen enthusiasm for the ice game we are glad
to see hockey . reorganizing. But’
why, in the name of all that’s good
ard wonderful, should the Council
favor hockey by giving them $255
more than they gave to basketball?
And why, if they had to cut out
basketball meals. did they give their
approval to hire an outside man for
$75.00 to coach the hockey team
when already Dalhousie has an efficient physical director?

Surely it cannot be that hockey is
a stronger or more active sport.
Again looking at the records we
.|find that Dal hockey teams have
made a poor showing in past years.
Defeat follows defeat and the wins
are few and far apart. Last year
the sport sunk to such a low ebb
that the game was discontinued.
Alongside this record place the recit} ord of the Dalhousie basketball
team. Continually for the past
number of years the basketball
squad has been a winning aggregation. Their record is impressive.
In 1942 the team won the Maritime
Basketball Championship, and consistently in other years they were
outstanding contenders for the city
title. Last year—the year that hockey had not the vitality or spirit to
organize a team—Dalhousie basketball teams were merrily running
in two leagues. besides many people
participating in a hard fought, very
enthusiastic inter-faculty competition.

sae ‘that aia not been
ful on the campus in

fig : ainSagh the records
: years we noticed that the
, LL Sie nerey pees wére

ll te: ie ee $573, 91, cos the
“expenditure was aot 91.

oC pare iheraasé Dal. ‘tad no hoe
key team The basketball budget,
however, “was slightly over $400.00.
io ne In looking at these statistics it

ra ers “comes somewhat as a “Surprise to

Again the question is put forward: “Why the difference of $255
between hockey and basketball?”
The sore point with the basketball
players is that the Council have
done away with meals, the first
time this has been done in many
years. One member of the Students’ Council had the audacity to
|suggest that the _ basketballers

should hawe enough interest to play
without meals being given. Well,
with a person having plenty of leisure that’s all right. But if a person has classes from nine to one
o’clock and a lab. in the afternoon
—as, many players have—*it “does
not prove practical. For between
one and two-thirty there is nftime
after having an hour’s practige and
a shower to run home ng nf dinner. And even baske all™ players
cannot be expected to go all day
without eating. ¥
The Students’ Council should be
given credit for the things they
have done in the different phases of
college life. Orchids should be giv
CHURCH ORGANS
MUSIC - ati

ime

60 BARRINGTON st. St

  

 

“Y" 35—CUBS 23 On the small Y.M.C.A. floor the
Dalhousie Cubs went down to defeat at the hands of the “Y” Inter@ | mediates by a seore of 35-23 on
= | Wednesday night. The first part of
‘the game featured close individual
checking and the score after eight
| minutes of play was only 3-2 in fav| or of ‘the “Y.” Half-time ended
with “Y” having a slight lead.
- ‘The second half opened with Fari quhar rapping in an couple of fast
Shots to put Dal ahead by three
| points. The “Y” recovered and
| came back strong with Johnson and
h McIntyre ere _on .some nice

 

— Pe Te
Mig ahs _? 7 Ww We tbs i
14 : ‘

et

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dal Pucksters Hold
First Practice

After lying dormant for over a

| year, hockey at Dalhousie has final
ly been revived. Last Tuesday saw
the first concrete evidence of it
when about fourteen aspirants to
the team turned out for practise.
It was obvious that many were out
of condition, but that is always true
at the beginning of any season.

Even though it is difficult to
make many predictions on the potentialities of the team after one
practice, several things could be
nated. First, the majority of players were quite light, but fast, which
makes for powerful forward lines;
but this same factor leaves a weak
defense which seems to be our chief
requisite. We were reassured by
the manager. Doug. Clarke, that
both defense and goals would be
ably taken care of by members of
the Forrest campus, who were ~ at
the time occupied with C.O.T.C.

Just to give the rest of the University some idea of those who will
lead the attack against H.M.C.S.
King’s and Saint Mary’s, we'll give
you the names of those at practise:
Anderson, Burgess, Churchill-Smith,
Crowell. Currie. Flynn, Graves,
Harvey, Knight, Lantz, Matheson,
Snuggs, Wade,

 

en those members of the Council
that have given their time, thought,
and ability in helping along one of
the most important of college activities—the Glee\Club. It’s gratifying to see the Council help the
hockey team along the comeback
trail. But it is rather a ~ sordid
thing when one learns that one
member of the Council said to another. “Look, if you vote for Glee
Club we'll vote for hockey.”

We. the student body, have elected certain members from ourselves
to represent us in ALL college activities. When we elected the body
that comprise the present Students’
Council we had faith that they
would take a disinterested view on
the different questions that would
arise from time to time, not. with
prejudice, siding with some favorite club or organization, but serving
those they represent honestly and
faithfully. And we the student
body—who put those members
where they now are—should not tolerate any discrimination against
any sport, club. and organizations
now not receiving fair treatment.

 

Dal S.C.M. Officials -
Continued from page one

part to be played in reconstruction
—building and rebuilding torn civilizations. In the second study the
Canadian delegates looked at Canada
and Canadian problems, among
others that of Canadians of Japanese descent who have been moved
from their homes and whose property has been sold behind them, also
that of the French-Canadians, whom
we found, with a sense of shock, we
of English descent have made so

=

CUBS DROP BASKETBALL
OPENERS TO Y AND NAVY

NAVY 38, DALHOUSIE 20

The first Intermediate basketball
game for Dalhousie this year, was
played last Saturday at the Y.M.
C.A. The play was definitely in an
Intermediate class, but even that
was too high for our own team.
‘Maybe it was because they didn’t
have enough practice, maybe they
weren’t used to the floor; but anyway Navy won 38 to 20. Dalhousie
seemed to have complete lack of
teamwork and there was entirely
too much hogging of the ball. There
weren’t enough shots made at the
basket, and they were poor when
they were.

Cubs—Pope 6, Knight 3, Camp
| bell 2. Farquhar 3, Giffin 2, Cooley,

Pree ¢.
Fic aeons 8, Davis “10,

 

 

 

Slices. Bakethal Budget

An Open Letter From

|The Physical Director

It is my honest opinion that the
Student’s Council acted unwisely
when they cut $200.00 or more from
the Basketball budgét and stipulated
no further meals to be given. To
me this action appears drastic beeause it will mean the beginning of
the end of competitive sport on the
campus for the duration,

With the D.A.A.C. facing great
hardships during this wartime period- fostering athletics and endeavcuring to keep up interest in interfaculty leagues, this edict of the
Council’s will just about finish Basketball for Senior and Intermediate
competition as well as for interfaculty play.

During the last ten years in senior competition Dalhousie’s teams
have had an enviable record winning two Maritime Championships
and being Eastern Canadian Finalists, It is the feeling of the players
that it would be too much to expect
of them to pay their boarding house
and also to pay for meals to play
bsaketball five times a week.

In conclusion it appears to me
that if any of the Students’ Council
were interested in Basketball they
would not have allowed the hockey
budget to be doubled over the grant
last given to a hockey team and at
the same time halved the basketball
budget and excluded all meals.

Basketball could be saved if the
Council reviewed the situation and
allowed meals for three of the five
practices for a four-week period
until the teams are conditioned.

—Burnie Ralston,
- Physical Director

—.

little effort to understand. We discussed the urban problems involved
in the shifting of populations in wartime and the immense rural problems
resulting also. Lastly the conference discussed “Christian vocation’.
We saw that each vocation, secular
as well as church, has opportunity
for Christian service. In all these
seminars one point particularly became very clear—the business of reconstruction is not a post war problem. It is a job which must be
started now,
our campuses, in our communities.

Five hundred students are a very
small number to have come from all
of North America. But we believe
that this was a tremendously important conference. Although we
have seattered to our own universities across the continent, the spirit
of the Wooster conference cannot
be quenched. The hope of the world
lies in this spirit, and the only chance
for a lasting peace among men,

‘IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone 3-6881

Follow the rest of the boys
for your Footwear to

SHANE’S SHOE STORE
397 BARRINGTON ST.  3-9144

HE

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
Phone 3-7133 - HALIFAX

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 Spring Garden Road
83-9754

We Cater to Collegians

@—

The following are the answers
of BRAIN WORK-OUT:

First star—Marty MacDonald,
7". *e'.~ Laura Mackenzie.

mast. don’t ZiVe A the

c. 12 cae Va ry a at, y ses I me Right uLL the ia) E —" a 10

 

 

 

in each one of us, on,

 

  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
    
   
     
   
    
  
    
 

January 21, 1944

BRAIN WORK-OUT
Sow well do you know Dal’s sports heroes and athletic events?

Below you will find clues containing descriptions and facts of
different, well-known sport personalities. Some clues will be harder
than others, but somewhere there will be a key word that will reveal
the person’s identity and which could only apply to, our chosen stars.
The first two clues apply to our first athlete, the third to our second,
and clues numbers 4 and 5 describe our third star.

Score yourself in this manner: clues 1, 3, 4—10 points each;
clues 2, 5—5 points each. Perfect score 40 points. All set! let’s go!

Clue 1—This tall, lean athlete comes to Dal from Saint Mary’s,
where he starred on their hockey team.

Clue 2—Captained Dal’s senior hockey team in 1941; fast skater
and good scorer. In the past played football for the Tigers; last
year was tentative candidate for president of Students’ Council.
Med student.

Clue 3—Tall, dark, attractive; Science student whose home is in Gs
Halifax; in Students’ Council; has been badminton manager for two
years and holds one of the college badminton titles.

Clue 4—Tousled red head that gives his opinion on all sport
meAters with a preciseness, eloquence and fluency that only “he”
could give.

Clue 5—Seems to be forever in the gym ad takes great delight
in telling people (in his own words) to keep off the basketball floor
with their shoes on.

The Carleton bs

in DALHOUSIE WELCOME

Halifax, Canada

3 TO
Host to the travelling

public since 1858 ; BLAKELEY’S :

L

43 Spring Garden Road

A Good Address C1]

Pg

  

YOUR SUITS WILL

Look Newer
Last Longer

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,
to keep them feeling soft and fresh to maintain
shapely, stylish lines. A good wartime practice
is: Buy fewer clothes—send what you have
to Cousins often.

&
q di SLT gs ueurce
GSMA LAUNOLRIAS Ove Ri STORAGE =

 
  
     

       
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 

 

EATON’S for

Men’s Felt Hats

A Range of Models and Prices In Our Men’s
Wear Department On the Main Floor

HOOSE your new felt hats at EATON’S!... In the
Hat Department on the Main Floor you will find a
choice of styles. ... Types suitable for young men,
ane more conservative styles for the older man in the

“3.75 ° 7.50

Eaton’s Main Floor

=

irradi Einll,
Ly yorefully sux
