 

 

 

  

, a ; i
° 7 .% q : { as . e 7 ¢ 1 ; ' 4 ,
i i oF _ ar i = = 7 ‘ p ~ =
1 , is q , we rire t ; 7 ‘ és Sf a “I > - ra
¥ r ee " i Ty Shar . nha By aan » lg Bp ate | a 7" c ag 3 i 7 r
Pal é ay 4 ‘ r 3 4 Ame wT ‘* 4 { fe 5
ie Pets a , ~ Se i ray ‘ a on J , 5
‘i 7 —_ 7 — P = . / 7 = — } s ‘a e es re = F ‘
4 ’ | = . Maes A ee Sth. = j
ou wane a | f Pye ye phe Ae yy fi q ’
rs Lire ' f f i ;
‘7 - ey 7m a ‘ \ i
ae On ca ei 4 ’ ” *
a —— = < eae eS Sa Pee = Fes a 3 uv i 7
i i ae a” asl PRS = rf i y=. . “si 4 :
ty ek 7 Af . °
bi 2 one
av | . a ;
« in > . y %
= . r \
.
; »
¥.
. .
'
‘ ‘ *
a :
i .
' .
i
/
| . e
i
}
'
‘ ‘

‘VOL. LXXVI

| Meals for
A Males

With the scheduled opening of a
wartime cafeteria at Shirreff Hall,
November 1, male students of the
university will find a solution to
their complex dinner and supper
problems.

However, it has been made clear
by university authorities that the
new scheme will depend, chiefly, on
the cooperation of male students to
fill the hopeless void on the “domestic’ front. Four students working
in pairs are needed to operate the
recently installed mechanical dishwasher. Free meals and pocket
money will be the reward of honest
effort. ‘:

Applications should be made to the
Business Manager before November
lst, so that prospective overseers of
the mechanical dishwasher can learn
their trade before the cafeteria offi_ cially opens business.

All those proposing to get one or
two meals daily at Shirreff Hall
under the new system can obtain
meal tickets in groups of five for
$2.25 in the university office.

CAMPUS
CLIPPINGS

By EUGENE MERRY

 

 

 

Blood Serum Substitute May Be
Discovered.

Toronto (C.U.P.)—Dr. N. B. Taylor, of Toronto University, is believed to have discovered a substitute for blood serum; he and his assistants have been working for two
years on this substance. The serum,
isinglass, is taken from the swim
bladders of a fish found on the Atlantic coast. |

Dr. Taylor stated that this serum
has not yet proven a complete substitute for blood. The Connaught
Laboratories are now beginning a
large scale production under the supervision of G. W. Henry. In the
General Hospital a total of 61 persons have been administered isinglass. The serum was given to detect the occurrence of temperature
rising properties and in the treatment of burns, shock, and acute
haemorrhage.

° * *& *

Two Irishmen, Pat and Mike, who
had been together on Pat’s wedding
day, met again after many years and
were talking about old times.

Mike: “You got an awful fright
on your wedding day, didn’t you.
Pat?”

Pat: “Yes, begorra, and 1 still
_ have her.” — .

=n

U. of N. B. Initiatiog Is Tough.

The class of 47 at the University
of New Brunswick roared through
its initiation in fine style last week.
The initiation began on Monday
morning and finished Friday night.

Clad in next to nothing, the Freshettes, carrying dolls, and sporting
chareoaled faces, demonstrated their
sizes, shapes and numbers in the
chill of an early Octobber morning
after receiving a soaking outside the
Residence.

On Monday night the Freshmen
gathered on the Post Office steps,
dressed only in undershirts and diapers, with red turbans on their

heads, and proceeded to sing college
songs. Later, several frosh were re
 

v ibit Art
o Exhibit Ar

Dalhousie University has for some
years been a member of the Maritime Art Association. Since membership entitles an institution to secure
certain travelling exhibitions it‘ has
recently been decided that the University should avail itself of such
opportunities, and takes a more
active interest in the art projects of
the Maritimes.

With this end in view, the University, under the name of the Dalhousie University Art Group, has
together with the three other local
art groups secured four exhibitions
for the coming winter.

These exhibits through the kindness of President Carleton Stanley
and Professor G. Vibert Douglas will
be exhibited in the Geology Department, Science Building, Studley
Campus, Dalhousie University.

Each exhibition will last for a
week and will be open to the student
body and the public on Sundays and
week days (except Tuesdays) from
10 a.m. to 10 pm. A notice board
on Studley Campus (facing Coburg
Road and Chestnut Street) will give
the hame and dates of showing of
each. exhibition.

The object of the Dalhousie University Art Group is to arouse interest in art matters in both the staff
and student body; show your interest by visiting these exhibitions.
Suggestions will be welcomed.

   
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
   
 

SPEAKS ON
CHINA

Dr. James G. Endicott, United
Church Missionary and former professor at the West China University
in Chengtu, in an address to members of the Student’s Christian
Movement, told of the conditions
through which the Chinese today
have to live, and how this great
struggle will affect them in the
peace, both politically and economically.

Inspired by a small group of
Christians, the S.C.M. has grown
into a powerful group in the Christian Universities in China, and has
done much to aid the Chinese people
in all their suffering. But, Dr. Endicott stated, there are opposing factions at work within the nation,
which do not help the cause of
Christianity. The two greatest factions are Fascism and Socialism,
whose. leaders do not entirely support the Christian movement.

Dr. Endicott also stated what
Christian leadership meant to the
Chinese. Although many of their
great leaders today are not Christians, they have, nonetheless, been
influenced by Christianity. In fact,
without this Christian influence, the
cause of China might have been decided long ago, in favour of the
Japanese. Thus, he stated, with the
manner in which the people of China.
are fighting and with their leaders
who have been so influenced by the
Christian cause, we have one of the
greatest challenges yet made to the
Christian world.

Miss M.—*‘Do you know Boo?”
Miss F.—‘Boo who?”
Miss M.—‘Well, don’t cry over it.”
* * *
‘Tis asked, if all the co-eds at
Dal who wouldn’t neck were put into one room, what would we do with

her? —Ancestry Unknown.
x * *

 

 

 

THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 29, 1943

 

A sophomore is treated to a shoe-shine by a grinning freshman at
the Freshie-Soph dance which marked the end of a three-week initiation
period. Grinning inanely at the camera, the freshman seams pleased
with his lot.

FROSH ORDEALS OVER

Frosh paid the penalty for their | calling to judgment of a number of
nefarious crimes during initiation, | the worst offenders from the frosh
|ranks before a jury of their seniors,
Justice Bob Seeley presiding, and P.
Payzant, K.C., acting for the perseeution. In the interests of justice,
no attorney for defence was allowed,
and the unanimity and acceleration
with which the jury reached their
inevitable “Guilty” verdict was noted
with aproval by all—upperclassmen.
| Naugler fiddled while the Frosh
burned.

while upperclassmen coupled off and

cut a merry rug at the annual

Freshie-Soph last Friday night.
Even more successful than the Council Dance of the week before, the
Freshie-Soph was a fitting culumination to three well-run weeks of
induction of new students into the
ways of Dal.

High spot of the evening was the

The following letter, of direct and heart-rending simplicity,
was written by a freshman to his “Ma” at the conclusion of the
initiation period. The Gazette considers the work a perfect example
of BASE-ic ENGLISH (Engineer version) and proudly reproduces
it for the spiritual and intellectual enlightment of the reaoder:

Pk me lg
Dear Ma:

Well, Collidge has started and yer loving son is Rard at work.
Well, Ma, this is shore different from good old New Glasgow High
School. Down here ycu got to watch out or else some Upperclassman drafts you for manual labor.

They have some funny sayings around here. The other day
Hank Johnson asked me what I was talking about. and when I told
aa he said, “Good stuff!” They shore say funny things around this
place.

’ Well, Ma, tonight they are holding the Freshie-Soph dance. It’s
goin’ to be pretty grim; us poor freshmen are goin’ to catch it
(them words ain’t mine. Ma, they belong to Bob Sealy — them
sophomores is hellish wicked). O yes, Ma, tell all the girls that I
won’t be home till Xmas and not to be too disappointed.

Well, Ma, them professors are cards—they is always joking.
The other day one of them told me to look after my grammar. |
told him she could look after herself.

Well, that’s all for now. Yer loving son,

D.G. A.C. HOLD MEETING

The was only a small number of
girls present at this meeting, those
who were absent are asked to inquire.to which club they have been
assigned, and are strongly urged to
eome out on Tuesday evenings to
support them. There will be some
good games this year if you do,

pntensnticen dees

 

D. G. A. C. held its first general
meeting on Tuesday in the Arts

Building. The business discussed
was that of electing managers for
the various sports which are to be
played this year. Joyce Hart was
elected Ground Hockey manager;
Margaret Morrison, basketball;
Laura MacKenzie, badminton; and
Pat Hollis, Ping Pong. The three
activities clubs will be competing
this year and it is hoped that the
turnouts this term will be bigger and
better. From the ability of the
Freshettes displayed last Tuesday
there should be some keen compe
tition between the clubs. The girls

Govern Yourself

The Newfoundland Club is meeting
tonight, Friday, at 8 o’clock, in the
Murray Homestead.

The Sodales debating trials will
be held Tuesday, Nov. 2, 12 noon, in
Room 8 of the Arts Building.

executive meetings,

were’ assigned to their clubs and
representatives were elected to sit at
Margaret MacPherson, and Anne Mackley were the
two elected representing the Reds

Coach Ralston is starting a series
of classes in the gymnasium shortly. Details of the scheme can be
found on the Sports Page of this
issue,

ll

.——— E.

it + —

a |

Gazette

—_

 

No.

 

SUPREME MOOT

COURT MEETS

The final sitting of the Fall Term
of the Supreme Moot Court of Dalhousie was*held on Wednesday afternoon, October 27th. in the Moot
Court Room of the Law School, before Chief Baron Twillingate of Avalon, formerly R. A. Parsons, and
Barons Vaughan and Meclvor of the
Bay.

The case on appeal was Knight ys.
Great Trunk Pacific Development
Co., an appeal from the Supreme
Court of Canada: Counsel for the
appellant were Kevin Barry, K.C.,
and Feanny, while Francis Clancy,
K.C., and Richardson acted for the
respondent.

In opening the Court the learned
Chief Baron found it necessary to
severely admonish junior counsel for
their insolent, childish and insulting
conduct during the previous sittings.
His warning was severe and absolute.

In addition the Court sentenced
McCollough, the self styled first year
Romeo, Sheffman, the Newfoundland
hyena, and Butler, probably the
greatest living evidence of the ver
acity of Darwin’s theory, to copy

out and pass into the Supreme Moot
Court Committee a number of sections of Halsbury dealing with contempt of Court.

Feanny opened the case for the
appellant, but was almost immediately fined for insulting one of the
Barons. He was then informed that
the ear of the Court was no longer
receptive to his juvenile mutterings.
Mr. Barry gave an excellent presentation of his client’s case. He argued
with great force and persuasion. He
was of great assistance to their
Lordships by his punctual and
straightforward answers to their
questions. He gave able answers to

all of Chief Baron Twillingate’s profound questions, especially those
about an elevator shaft through

which his client’s husband met his
death. The Chief Baron himself is
an authority on elevators, and frequently recounts with fervor his own
exciting experience when as an
articled clerk he was caught between
the elevator was not crowded there
being only the operator and His
Lordship present. As he relates it
the fear stricken operator clung
desperately to him.

Mr. Richardson opened for the respondent and gave an interesting
and highly complimentary eulogy to
the Bench. Mr. Richardson was undoubtedly the most intelligent junior
to address the Bench this year. A
touch of beauty was added to the

Miss Clancy arose to argue the case
for the respondent. She gave a very
inspiring congratulatory panegyric
to their Lordships much in the
vein one might expect from Baron
Vaughan. Possessed of the judicial
wisdom of Portia she argued with
force and persuasion, and was completely successful in winning over
Baron Vaughan.

After a lengthy deliberation Their
Lordships reversed the decision of
the Supreme Court of Canada, Baron
Vaughan dissenting.

The traditional decorum of the
Court room was rudely shattered on
numerous occasions by the juvenile
antics number moronie
spectators. With deep misgivings
Their Lordships found it necessary
to impose an unprecedented number
of summary penalties. Sheffman,
whose conduct would not be excus
of a of

able in a drunkard, continued his
habitual antics and paid several
fines. It was also necessary to deal

severely with Butler. It is regretable that a minimum I.Q. of 75 or 80
is not required for admission into
the Moot Court Room. Minor fines
were also imposed upon McCollough
and Martin.

This was the last regular Sitting
of the Fall Term, but it may be
necessary to call an Extraordinary
Sitting to deal with a number of
criminal offenses if certain penalties
are not carried out.

Acadia Plans Laid;
No Q. T. C. Parade

Plans for the anuual foray against
Acadia are well under way, George
“The Hawk” Hawkins reported enthusiastically shortly before press
time. Although no official order has
yet been released, extremely reliable
sourees close to the High Command
say there will be definitely no OTC
parade the Saturday of the game.
Slated for November 13, two weeks
from tomorrow, the game will be the
last League clash of the year, and,
as such, may be the deciding factor
in Dal’s placing in the League. The
Tigers, therefore, are hopeful of a
supporters to shout Acadia under.
By present indications, they may get
it, for the common campus greeting
of the last few days has been ‘ Going
to Acadia?”

Sinee excursion train rates
for the duration, tickets
will be $4.25 return. Arrangements
with the railroad are being completed, and all supporters ho plan

 

are out

this vear

musty atmosphere of the aged Court|to hit the road are urged to watch

Room when like a white lily coming | the bulletin board, and to sign up
f | =<; = oe

to the surface of a stagnant pool,’ for tickets well in advance.

 

DIPO

(1)

Dalhousie Tustitute

aw of Public Opinion

Do You Think Dalhousie Will Win in the Footha’l | e-sue?
Of the many asked this question, 75%, self-classed
diately answered with a resounding “YES”.

immeOnly 20% were pessimistic

experts,

enough to say “NO”, and the remaining 5% either gave the subject no
thought, or didn’t care one way or another.

(2) Were You Disappointed With Your Initiation?

(Asked of Frosh only)

Surprisingly enough, 84% of the Freshmen asked, stated bluntly that

their initiation was a sad disappointment.
not to divulge their names to the committee in charge
feared some move to make up for the disappointment!)
with their

16% were quite satisfied
onions, ete.

(Some asked their interrogator
no doubt they
The remaining
had eaten

 

punishment — they

(3) Would You Favour A Shortening of Hours in Military
Training For Senior Students?
As can be imagined the majority of seniors asked, answered insthe

affirmative.

71% stated that, what with their studies and outside inLester asks that no» notices or|terests that necessitate their attention, they were extremely pressed for
pesters be stuck over the light|time. 20% said they “have no kick”, and the remaining 9% were unswitches in the lobby of the Arts} decided as to what stand they would make. One practical sage remarked,
Building. “T don’t worry about it, I’m leaving at Christmas anyhow!”

Some Corn (Out of Season)
When a woman’s lips are cracked
She uses grease, ’tis said.

I wonder why the Freshman
Puts “greom” upon his head?

| ‘quired to give “command” perform
> ances, including a climaxing love

] scene, complete with moon and moo
| % chers, as well ag the staging of a
i + “beauty” contest.

and Gold Clubs respectively. The
Blacks were unable to elect a representative due to the small number
present.

 


i!
t &4
—
“Tee ‘

“a

 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
     
  
   
   

college Bares fn cAanerien?

THE GAZETTE are those of

waterfront dives. .
That dey represent the opinion of

 

GAZETTE ‘STAFF, 1943-44 face made for that section. Walking | his mind so he wouldn't ask “Why ?”
Beet a Bek NEI faa, WOT uo Ted Shields paved streets, grimacing at curious|too soon. A young couple came and
Sale os: Pi uicla tie 6, de 0 Akale @.8i8 60s o/s ewe eee ee Kevin Barry children, seeing lovely young girls sat on the hillock overlooking the
cai nerenes “Bab MeCleave, “i Metiency |With smooth bodies could make|Water. They hadn't seen Djehal be
| ae Bye a Beamer eas her il Pope Djehal feel that Europe was not the| hind the tree and as he couldn’t
MIME Mee tellin ules yisea bodies ie {..Lou Collins |Wwhole world—that Spengler can be| understand English it didn’t bother
MMA eee al ge oc 28's ie Jeffrey, E. MacDonald | wrong; and above all, in the homes| his conscience much to eavesdrop. It
ileal a sicapeie he Gina Wh Gey d Hos wep ee SN As eee ae he slowly passed he knew that a| Was so wonderful for a change to

‘ PES RRR eee sre es siete yy ks» 6

wide, clean, world existed, an alien
world.

His dream from the narrow cor|ridors and tiny rooms of a dirty
te ship pitching in black water. A
MEARS ook at | white napkin or a clean table cloth.
ae es BACKW. ARD, TURN BACKWARD Joke! when men plunge black fingerover this week’s edition before going to press, we] nails into bread and pass over torn
than somewhat surprised to note the date line of|hunks of greasy meat in the palms
29” slated for the front page. Which some engineer] of sweating hands. He suspected
mputed for us meant approximately six week before|that such things were not universal
es before Examinations”. Two days later examina-|—his ship registered at Panama so
. that it would be technically neutral
and then of course British sanitary
authorities passed over ships of this
kind, “non-British” ships, and let
them sink unchecked into whatever
condition their lethargic masters
O}permitted. And then in the end
Admiral Doenitz’ sea-raiders neglected to notice a neutral flag anyway, so? However, Djehal classed
this with his less important why’s.

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

ampbeil, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Eileen Phinney
alk Fd we pi uieley ae Kimball, Betty Atkins

      
    
   
       
     
    
 
   
   
      
      
 
     
     
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
     
   
 
 
  
  
  
     
  
   
  
  
   
    
 
   
     
  
   

  

  

mportance of these exams in the lives of most undereannot be underestimated. Under the new N.S.S.
_ the question of not only what they will do in college,
ther they will continue in college at all, will be deter. Yet the same antiquated system of conducting nee
ali ne the zero hour as though the Utopian goal of “

nations” was an accomplished fact will evidently etic
| Students entering Dalhousie with degrees from
Giniverkitios have often expressed surprise, and dismay,
rst they find. themselves being given new material, new
and theme ‘assignments even on the “last day of

  

  

 

e. present era has been called the “Automobile Age”. a
deed is the person today who does not accept cars as
. matter of course as the sky and the earth, yet no one
ected to drive a car in the first lesson. It is more natural
. student should grasp the involved mechanics of chemical
ons and evaluations, or the development of opinions and
dice in the human mind, at the first introduction to these
Tae er, and ‘greater, universities than Dal, including Harrd, Yale, Dartmouth, have long since recognized the need and
e of a period of pre-exam. review. The Gazette strongly
vocates. ni cessation of new work one week before examinams, and that classes during that week be devoted to a
hensive review and resume of the courses. A clearer
nding of the basic principles and underlying motives,
bation of the deeper meaning, and of the value and in, of a class, not to last through examinations, but through
would, we believe, result. Some professors, it is true, do
w their final week for review. But only when this system
recognized as an integral part of the college year will it be
he - the majority. And only then will the system of
us examinations become, to an extent, fair to the

When I look at his face his eyes
look straight into mine. Yet it is

as through me, because he was of
that small circle of great and noble
human beings who have the capacity
to see through the fleshly trappings
of man and the veil of the world.

He was not a great man as we,
who are born into a world in which
too often, wealth and position mark
weak men as great. He was of
humble birth, yet he rose to be one
in the ranks of the truly noble. For
those who saw only the comic side
of life, he presented a comical appearance. He was a tall, thin, ungainly figure of a man. In a crowd
he was immediately conspicuous,
towering as he did a full head and
ers shoulders above the average men
ss . about him, and made even more con
eet VOX DALHOUSIANAE ... spicuous by his sober dress and high
_ “For one and two and three and four ~ehimney-pot” hat.
et 1 /And_twenty years and two-score more...” He had a varied career. He had

e Gazette, the oldest college paper in America, has been | known hard manual labour, the smell
esularly off the presses for the students of Dalhousie. | of new ploughed fields, and the ring
e University itself, it has undergone many changes, ap-|° 4 Keen axe as it bit into a sound
ng sometimes in tabloid form, sometimes as a literary}!og- In a firelit log shanty he had
uly, during the last decade or so in the format of a weekly | Sained enough scraps of law to set
But never has its original purpose been altered;|himself up as a lawyer. Going
been a eoeaat where the activities Ga enousiane ite) farther atield he had entered politics
: and had so advanced himself in the
favor of his fellow citizens, that they
had chosen him to be their leader
in a time of national crisis. Few
men have ever faced a more soulsearing task.

“aye limit of its power, the present staff will endeavour
ry on the Gazette tradition. To do so, it must have not

y the support, but the eriticism of its readers. A space on
lis page is always ready to print letters expressing the stuSS views, be they on the paper itself, on anything within
yer, OY ON any campus activity which a writer feels should | political and geographical divisions;
ured or commended. Short of libel, we’re ready for|he had watched two political philosa ; ophies grow, out of which could
: | . come only discord.

It was now the lot of this man,
who had been elected to the highest
office to which his nation can raise
one of its citizens, to lead his country into civil war+to see brother
murder brother; to see the rich
bréwn sod of his country run red
with the blood of its citizens. No
man saw the issue more clearly, no
man was more steadfast to his
ideals, none sorrowed more.

We see the best and the worst of

This man had seen his country
gradually resolve itself into two

   
  
  
     
       

  
  
  

 

    
 
 

F atom a
ey

i

  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
  

~ yi EX
aay

‘deel

eh a

  
 
      
  
 
   
 
   
  

 

In the year 1868, after, bitter reverses, the tide turned for the side
and the principles for which this
great man stood. On November 19
of that year, this man made a short
speech over the dead of his country,
a speech which will ring out forever
in the halls of freedom-loving men.
Four days later he gazed into a

INTERLUDE
ir -couldn’t speak Eng- |

youths in the history department, so
‘Was passable at.

1 Djehal had taken the hint and the
d French and spoke!sea found him. A Panamanian
ly and of course his freighter carried him over the North
‘urkish. His mother| Atlantic. Djehal wasn’t unhappy,
him * his dreams nor happy either, he thought more
he supposed | about the past than the future, and
sibly better | not at all about the present. As the
years at Got-|twin openings of the sea that made
care of that—but | Halifax an almost-island lay before
an in pcan mo were shrugged and went below. He

 

      
  
    
  
 

  
   
  
   
  
 
 

No waterfront for Djehal, He was
no sea-dog rotting on shore in
. or even downtown restaurants. Every city has a
clean section and Djehal always
pulled on a clean white doubrijka,
and with his fez and clean-shaven

EMANCIPATOR

not so much into me that he looks, |

of a great and good man.

‘even the noble are open to tempta
people most clearly in time of crisis. | 
 

 

MAPLE LEAF DAIRY

A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.
Phone 4-2357

MILK —- CREAM - BLEND - BUTTERMILK

 
 

Road and soon he saw water again.
Well, he had no objection to water
when it was smooth ahd clean and
torpedo-less. With his back against
a tree he regarded the water and
the passing trams and soon pulled
out of his pocket a small Englishrman reader and began to study.
Not concentrated enough to learn
anything but something to occupy

 
 
 
    
   
 

  
   
 

   
  
  
  
   
 
  

   
  
  
 

  
 
   
  
      
 
  
   

    

    
   
    
 
   
   
   
 
  
  

   
 
 
 
 
  

   
   
  
 
      
 

hear voices uncharged with irritation, despair, hate. His ship knew
little else. They conversed softly
about the water—about each other
—about plans for the tutumn, about
love. The soft voice of the girl
struck Djehal physically. The fluid
phrases in the unknown tongue made
his temple throb with their message
of content and love; and then with
blinding rage —ice calm — tumult—
suddenly Djehal knew . . . “why”.
As the Panamanian freighter slipped away from the twin openings of
the sea that make Halifax “an
almost-island,” Djehal Sahir lay in
his tiny bunk, blessed with a new
despair—a new unhappiness.

As he lay sleepless through the
night he sometimes wondered what
the young couple had said to each
other.

MEDIUM orMILD

 

   
  
  
 
  

PLAYER’S NAVY CUT CIGARETTES

    

        

 

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

 

 

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

A Word of
Welcome

Birks extend to newcomers and returning
students a cordial welcome to bring their gift
problems to Birks.

—T. W.
bs Four Experienced Barbers

camera and as we say today, his face Jerry Naugler’s
became history.

A casual observer, looking at this
photograph will see there the face
of a grim, purposeful man. He will
notice the long, untidy black hair, O
the sunken cheeks, the large ears,
the shaven upper lip and the closeclipped beard. The more attentivé
observer will note that the hair is
strong and coarse, and tinged with
grey. He will notice the high, lined
forehead, the regular eyebrows, and
the regular though slightly hooked
nose. Engraved by sorrow deep r
into the sunken cheeks, are two lines 135 HOLLIS STREET
running down with the curve of the 29 COBURG ROAD
cheek from the base of the nose, the ®
line on the right being accentuated HALIFAX
midway by a large mole. The attentive observer will notice too, that the
lips are thin and firm and seem as
if they did not meet fairly, almost
as if the lower protruded on the
right a little, as if the upper on that
side were sucked in. -The expression
of the mouth is stern, but it seems
as if one can detect the ghost of a
sad smile. We feel sure of this
when we remember the dry humour
of the man. The chin is prominent
and covered with a sparse, closecropped, coarse beard. There are
few men today who would grow a
beard to please a little girl. An
attentive observer will notice also,
the coarse and seamed texture of
the skin.

Having noticed these minutae, the
observer will fall under the Sway of
the eyes of this man. The eyes are
set wide apart and are sunken in the
skull. Here, indeed, a man’s eyes are
the “windows of (his) soul.”

Looking into those heavy-lidded
eyes, we gain some idea of how
deeply this man has drunk of the
cup of sorrow. We see mirrored
here the inflexible will, the unending
determination, and the infinite love

Come and visit—even if
you have no problem.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Halifax. N. 5

Orchestra

38 SHORE ROAD

Call 6-4388 Barrington St.,

 

: 9 i
Fader’s Drug Stores ||| rae NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists

Nova Scotia HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE
ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

 

  
   
 
    
 
    
  

Dalhousie Uniuersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 
  
 
   
  
  
   
    
 

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

   
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
    

These are the eyes, and this the
face of a rugged man, yet even the
rugged feel exhaustion. This is the
face of a man of noble soul, yet

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sce., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses ef recognized standing, leading to degr
of M.A., M.Sc. : N or
m Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses,

    
   
  
  

tion.

This is the face of a man of the
people, who, believing that every
human being is of equal consequence
in the scales of Justice, gave of the
best that was in him that his brother might enjoy in this world, a
form of society founded on the principles of liberty, justice and love,
the consummation of which he might
expect to find in the next.

   
   
    

  

    
     
  
   
 

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

   
   

   
  
  

  
  
    
  
   
  

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

 
   
   
  
  
 
 

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

»

  

: rae CeO eed

 

be ne

 
sed Sea ‘my icsepellia In Age
Bh f the evening I saw a co-ed,
Mj d like the movies showed
ft r re at college. I asked her
2 " an | a >, but i felt very self-con
| — sehov on Gefiitencion all « over.

es a nmpoy how close: to hold

esa jomeone else. s

¥ oa Dear Aunt Susie, what should I
ao? Should I treat her to a coke in
, the Gym store? Would it be too

- - forward: of me to ask her to a movie

just before the dance ? Would it

 

iN ae _— By J. L. MeLAREN

he Pie say that when the news got
abo ut that Eleanor had turned up in
: New Zealand, there were 127 retd uests for her room in the White

“SD igton isn’t quite that bad but a
Bsn increase of approximately

oe persons in three years is
bound to present certain difficulties.

_Overcrowding has primarily af
| teste the housing and transporta
_ tion facilities of the capital. If you}

want a ~ood show for your money

a don’t mind getting jostled about

the bargain, take a ride in a street

_¢ar or bus during the rush hours.

|. _ Besides coming in very close con
4 tact with your fellow passengers,

there will arise in you a definite ap
- preciation: of the trials endured by

j prisoners encased in the “Black

Hole of er oii .’ But provided aoe

; ce general equilibrium a
_ refraining from scratching the hea

no arms and legs or from

eating too heavily, the trip is
' ities to progress without mishap.

Gent Meet Lady

+m _ However, the Washingtonian gen_ erally contends with these and simi__ lar problems as being a quite natural
- outcome of the war. Typical of the

 
   
     
 
  
    
     
  
  
      
   
   
   
    
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
 

ee scene in this city of con_ trasts and similes, was the amusing
yet tragic incident which occurred
: "one one of the new streamline
eae the other night. These vehicles

_ TWO ALL STAR
WRESTLING
MATCHES

| oY, OCTOBER 29
00 p.m.

hg out of 3 Falls—60 Min. Limit

FARMER MACK
Michigan

vs.
AL KORMAN

MONTE LaDUE|
Hollywood, Calif.

PAUL LORTIE

Montreal
World's Jr. Heavyweight Champ.
a

4 ang G5c; Res. 1.00; Ringside 1.30
mee) 2 (Tax included)
_ Tickets on sale at Knight’s

 

    
  
  
 

 

   
    
 

 

7.30 to 9.30

Bie: be

ae i
he ;

| Dear Perplexed Freshman: ‘

| when in her presence.

a ee) ti
s 4
we
Band. af
teagan) Sas

teat

coke; A ialiivet more for your a

the | 1 the ex
"money that way. Take her out early

a. aa Freshman. |

* %#e *

Your problem -is that of all freshmen.. That is why I chose your letter from all the hundreds that came
to my office this week. The situation is a delicate one and you must
use a more subtle approach. First
show your total disregard for this
Freshette; always turn your back
Ignore her,
but don’t snub her. Let her hear you

say that the Freshettes aren’t what
you had thought they would be;

they aren’t up to the standard in
looks and personality.

This is a sure-fire method of
arousing her interest. If you pursue
her too assiduously, she will think
you are a wolf. Don’t give her that
impression even if you are. She has
probably been warned before she
left her mother’s care of the dangers in this respect.

Take her to a movie; don’t bother

careen along at a remarkable rate
and can stop or stop on a dime without noticeably reducing their speed
in the process. An austere faced old
gentleman, evidently unacquainted
with this fact, was hurled from one
end of the car to the other—to be
deposited (with the grace of a dancing “Rockette”) into the lap of an
unsuspecting lady. The event was
met with great laughter and enthusiasm by the other passengers although the old gentleman and his
newly found lady-friend were far
from unfazed.

QueveWho

It does not take the visitor long
to sense the fervent activity of the
military and governmental headquerters of a nation at war. In the
lone queues stretched, sometime for
blocks, outside the Washington
restaurants at noon hour and in the
groups of mufti-clad office-workers
waiting at the bus stops can be seen
the nucleus of thé “floating population” which has gradually been absorbed into the life of the capital.

Primarily it has been the expansion “of government department to

meet the increased responsibilities |.

and requirements of war, which has
drawn these innumerable office
workers and stenographers from all
parts of the United States to fill
staff vacancies. Illustrative of this
war influx was the array of automobiles drawn up a few mornings
ago on N.W. 22nd street near the
famed Pan-American building. Rep
 

ORPHEUS

Monday -Tuesday - Wednesday

“TAHITI HONEY”
and‘ ‘CARSON CITY CYCLONE”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“PASSPORT TO SUEL”
and “IDAHO”

 

 
 
  
    
   
 

 
 
   

GARRICK

Saturday Monday - Tuesday
“CORREGA DOR”
with
Otto Kruger and Ellisa Lauder

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“AIT THE ICE”
Abbott and Costello

“FALCON IN DANGER”

   
   
   
 

    
   
  
 

 
  
  
   
  
   

    
 

    
 
    
   
     
  
     

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

E BUSINESS COLLEGE
73 COLLEGE STREET

Studenta. who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

Tuition $5 per month

coe AND TYPEWRITIN G
wall be valuable aid in future years.

athe counts. from. date of. ‘Registration.

—

 

 
 

     

¥.-ye4
; iL

iv id ' - Wi
: . a re Heat» A 7 us
i eee, eee ; “4

ny " ah ii i 5
Rabat belie 3
PS sate nde ae i 4 3
by Wi eeat Fh if ple wes A
r Pg a pene ui A bed 7
y Pd } rf i BN

    

   
  

 

eT

— a ny

 

  

and bring her home late. That will

insure you that she won’t go out
with anyone else during the next
week. That solves one of your

| problems.

You had better not go to the Library or you might impress her as
being too serious. You simply must
not appear as a book-worm.

One of the best techniques is that
of appealing to a sympathetic upperclassmen with connections in the
Hall. You can be sure that the
grapevine system is working top
speed and within three minutes she

will hear of your availability. If you

acl on my advice, thus creating the
proper impression, your worries will
come to an end immediately.

Yours sincerely,
. Aunt Susie.

(Ed. Note: Send in your problems
to Aunt Susie in care of the Editor
of the Gazette and she will: furnish
you with prompt and effective advice, )

 

VARTIME WASHINGTON

resented on the license plates of the
eleven vehicles were th District of
Columbia and the States of Virginia,
Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Texas.

It should be noted that Canadian
girls, in large numbers, are wartime
additions to Washington. Employed
in secretarial and other capacities
with Canadian, British and American
offices, they hail principally from
the Prairie Provinces and the urban
areas of Quebec and Ontario. Members of the. Canadian Women’s
Army Corns stationed in Washington are comfortably housed in the
estate turned over to them by Mr.
Sumner Welles.

- (To be Continued)

CAPITOL

Mon., Tues., Wed.

“SPITFIRE”

with

LESLIE HOWARD

CI

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“True to Life”
with
DICK POWELL

and

MARY MARTIN

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday
“THIS LANE IS MINE”
‘SPITFIRE’S BLESSED EVEN’

Wednesday and Thursday
“AIR RAID WARDENS”
and “YOUNG MR. PITT”

Friday and Saturday
“CABIN IN THE SKY”
and “OXBOLT INCIDENT”

CASINO

*
HELD OVER!

CANADA’S OWN
PICTURE!

“Corvette K-225”
*

Shows daily at 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9.

a, ? “ i" if ‘
As a, cai 4 i fa Vix

 

4
Biri its f r

Heart. capes ts , ‘ 7

*% eh Sy veh ALY,
Ser me as ¥ a ata PS ibe ii

  
 

 

cm a fib

ut

  

ae

 

 

 

oa

Greetings, men!

The Engineers are again off to
victory! .

The football team will be having
its first practise one of these days,
and this year we hope to keep the
football trophy in our now famous
drafting room. The trophy, which
was won from Medicine last year,
has every intention of staying with
us. Art Burgess, manager of our
team, appointed to keep it organized
and rolling.

* * a

We notice that’ a great many of
the Engineers are catching up in
back work. Could it be the thought
of exams 6 or 7 weeks from now or
too much night life?

* + *

Will Harvey is seen working
steady every day. Now could it be
that he is a busy man after supper?’

Nita G. seems to have a lot of
company,
* * *
Mac Swain’s activities are not

confined to the Dal band only. He
seems to trip the light fantastic
down Coburg Road. No wonder he’s
sleepy when he gets up “to see the
dawn”!
she eagle
Currie and Oakley seem to still
have that dreamy look from Truro.
She must be quite a girl to travel so
far for. Maybe the cakes at Larry’s
Lunch have a different flavor.
* * x
After the game on Saturday,
Burgess has found out that certain
plays may be done away with. His
hopes, as manager, are to teach the
team to keep their chins up and not
walk into anything blindly.

% * *

Frank MacKay, that lonesome Colchester County boy, seems to be still
lonesome. Come! Come! girls, make
the “man” wake up and live. The
guy is just existing, and a feminime
companion would set a nice pace for
him.

oe ee
Ask:
Gerry Lantz why he is in such a

hurry to get down the Valley. Could

it be that he wishes to renew an old
acquaintance near the vicinity of
Aldershot ?

Windy how the “gymnastics” are
coming along. Was it brought about
because of his joy of seeing Ozzie
back in town?

x oe x
Note:
What’s happened to the Horizontal
Club this year? Don’t tell us that
no one can fill the boots of the expresident! Come on, fellows and appoint your executive for this year!

Prof.: “What are the genders?”

Frosh: ‘Masculine and feminine.
The masculine is divided into temperate and intemperate, and the
feminine into frigid and torrid.”

 

by TRIPE

This is. a series of articles which form a supplement to the
“Mentor”, popular feature of the Gazette two years ago, in which
college life, in all its trivialities, was sketched. This series will deal
with “After University—What?”

‘THE HOUSING PROBLEM

Sooner or later the happily married couple and the rest
of the married couples will decide to strike out on their own,
and buy a home; or build one. There are at once two avenues
of approach in the building, which is to either build it yourself
or get others to build it for you; in buying there are two approaches, to either buy it yourself, or get others to buy it for
you. However, this latter prospect is rarely to be counted on,
and the only assistance you might count on—loan companies—
will have to be repaid.

Building a house exemplifies the pioneer spirit, but the one
necessary qualification for a pioneer home is not procurable
now. It is the Wilderness. Yea, the Wilderness, in which
prophets have prophecied, and Moses has mosied. The pioneers
built their homes in the wilderness so that everybody else
wouldn’t laugh at them, but who wants that now. The only
way to be a pioneer now is help with the excavations of the
cellar of your home and to do this it will probably require a
union card. Thus have times changed.

But do not get discouraged. There are, as we have noted,
two methods of building: by yourself, or by a regular building
company. Having approached the building company.

The style of a house is an essential. It doesn’t matter a
hill worth of peas what the inside is like, but the outside counts.
For society has not passed by the skin-deep (here, the paint
deep) conception of beauty. And the Form is still striking.
So get a good coat of paint on a handsome exterior and go out
and get your man (say, I was talking about houses).

There are several types of houses, and a broad type known
as the indeclinable type. It‘is the latter which is most commonly in use, but buy a housing magazine for twenty-five eents
anyway and see what the hoi polloi are building. Remember,
you cannot change the style of your house once it is built. and
as a result if somebody else gets the same type of house—
you're in a bad shape.

Look through the pages of the magazine, and no doubt the
startling array of summer cottages will amaze you. (Housing
magazines work with the architects to keep the public from
dispensing with architects.) Having approached the architect,
tell him what you want. “I want a blue roof, with a dreen
gutter, and a quaint paint” and he understands just what it is
all about.

By the time you are through with him, you knew all along
anyway that what you wanted wasn’t what vou REALLY
wanted. “Just an idea of my wife’s; you know what women #re
like...”. Having accepted a Grecian style six-story residence
(the architect misunderstood you and thought you were building a tenement) you are all set.

At the site of the sight, you grab a shovel and start to
pound stakes until the time comes for you to die the first hole
in the ground. With a sigh of contentment like a railway
president finishing the last spike on the line you pitch forward
with your shovel. Oh well, they’ll let you set off the first blast

‘of dynamite to clear the rocks off the ground.

Things proceed along until there is a large hole in the
ground. Then a lot of men do a lot of things with conerete,
like spending most of their time cleaning it from their overalls,
and a foundation is made. This is important. Be sure it is not
of sand or you will offend the immaculate precepts of the divine
sage, and also skid on your back the first wet night when your
home crashes over.

The sides will slowly rise, and then somebody will put on

the roof, and somebody else take it off because there should
have been a chimney there, and then it’s finished. You go
inside and come out again sneezing. After somebody has

cleaned it up for you, you go inside and come out sneezing. It’s

hay fever you had after all.

There is a playroom for the children and.all sorts of closets,
and a guest room, and a parlor, and so on. It is essential to tell
everybody just what you have but you will find out that most
other houses have these anyway.

THE END.

KN

 

-~

Have a ‘‘Coke,”’

The Coca-Cola Company

YO

a

  
  

002 OF eRe to a aaeas n Alaska

says the Canadian airman in Alaska, and
in three words he has made a new friend. It clicks in the
Aleutians as in Alberta: "Round the world Coca-Cola stands
for the pause that refreshes—has become the high-sign between kindly-minded strangers.

 

  

“Coke” = IE SE

It’s natural for popular names to

 
 

acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s
why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.

     
    
 
    

we
Ce es eee
vin xv

 

~the global
oe — “sign

LU
Ry

e —~ _ —_
)

peel

  

of ‘Canada, Limited, Halifax

 

eet wee

 
   

 

 
 
 

By BILL POPE

  

  

oo

8, _ gold
eet st

by the slighest of margins.

  

  

  

  

a _ territory time after time.

  

  

  

f several years. The game was speedy
_ from start to finish; there was good
Fe kicking, good running, and most
ee oeable of all was the fight and
aggressiveness shown by the two
eeiais, Players did not save themselves, but tore into the fray with
_ vim and vigour to the wild delight
of the large crowd which filled the
stands.

In one week the Ralston coached
~~ squad showed vast improvement.
They no longer played the loose, unBe tised ball that helped Army to
Pe, an overwhelming victory a week
7 if _ ago. The boys showed better condition, and even the tackling at times
was good. Some, however, still persisted in grabbing their opponent
around the neck. This style of play
just won’t do, although, perhaps, it
ae p has its advantages at certain times
and ~in~ certain places, but this
_ ¢olumn is no place to talk about
mf. that.

mee The iitermadintes brought Dalits first victory of the season. Like
the senior game, play was. good and
several of the Intermediates showed
promise of developing into senior
material before the season closes.
_ The attack and spirit shown in both
games was fine. In fact, the on_ slaught was so terrific that it is a
good thing that the teams were allowed to use replacements. In the
latter part of the game Burnie Ral__ ston came in for McLennan who had
_ been injured. The aging Coach still
had plenty on the ball, and showed
the boys by his fine kicking an¢é
passing, that he is still one of the
a best.
ae Pip The hero of the day was none
| -—S other than Bob Wade, former high

  

    

  

   

  

as

  

  

  

  

  

  

    

 

 
 

  

  
 
 

  

  

  

 
  
 

  

___ School rugby star and first year, man
i at Dalhousie. * He not only played a
brilliant role in the opening game,
__-seoring one of the prettiest drop. kicks of the season and playing a
great defensive game, but also participated in the senior game and
tightened up the Ticers’ defense
with his steady work at fullback.

 
 

  

  

  

yore wate b “ta
wey BENGE

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    

STRONG POINTS
THAT STAND UP
WHEN YOU

ve

Q
8
ae

 
 
   

   
  
  
 

¢ NON-CoUNMOLING
"| LEADS THAT TAKE A TAKE A
PESFECT FOINT
EVERY TIME

   
  

a

  

#

   

INSOLUBLE
MARKS T.".T DON'T

   
   
  
  
   
  
   

     
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 

   

a

; " Axemen left Studley batover the boys in black and

Ralston can well be proud of
his coaching prowess during the
_ past week, for he changed the Tigers
o from a mild, despirited group of in_ dividuals to a powerful aggression
that went striding deep into Acadia

It seems that the League officials
; made 1 no mistake in changing a few
The game Saturday was one
Vee the best seen in these parts in

win its first game. Acadia has won
its way to the top of the league
with three victories and is still to be
defeated. Saturday Navy will try
to upset Acadia while Army will
clash with Dal for the second time
this year.

Last week while the teams were
resting between halves, a dressed up
effigy of an Acadian athlete was
brought out on the field and tossed
and thrown around by an enthusiastic group. The over 100. spectators
who came from the valley to support
the Axemen, took offense and rushed
onto the field. Soon developed one
of the wierdest scenes ever staged
on the campus. Acadia wanted to
destroy the effigy while Dal wished
to display it. And so in a brief
moment a dozen fights started, and
the crowd from the stands swarmed
over the field, pushing, shoving,
surging to the centre of attraction
—the effigy—some to take an enthusiastic part while others wanted a
front row view to witness the interesting event. All’s well, however,
that ends well. When play resumed
the milling crowd went back to the
stands. There were no casualties,
not counting of course a few black
eyes and bruised knuckles. The
effigy was destroyed, and the whole
affair was all in good, clean fun,
providing another exciting moment
in the thrill-packed afternoon for the
fans who sat onthe sidelines.

ns

Intermediates

Win: 5 -2

The Intermediates brought to Dal-| will be vindicated.

housie its first victory of the football
season with a well-earned 5-2 win
over Acadia. The bays produced a
good brand of ball and several of
the players showed promise of developing into senior material.

Bob Wade, who played fullback,
made the nicest play of the day
when he dropkicked the ball cles inly
over the bar from a long distance
out. Wade was retired a few
minutes before the final whistle, and
then went on to play a stellar role
in the senior game as Dal bowed ‘to
Acadia 3-0. Bob MacDonald, who
along with Wade is a first year man,
made the only try of the game
From a scrum in enemy territory he
picked up the ball and went racing
across the line to put Dal in the
lead. Pattillo scored for Acadia on
a long penalty kick,

The Intermediates have

their win over Acadia. After gaining a little more experience the
team should be hard to beat, end it
should go on to complete a suceegs
|ful season. Line-ups:

Dal—Keith, Anderson, Grant,
Dunlop, McKelvie, MacKenzie, MacDonald, Burgess, Churchill-Smith,
Flinn, Farguhar, McKenna, Wade.

Acadia-Fowler, Manning, Pettillo,

Crosbie, Phalen, MeLean, MaeDonald, Cunningham, Pailey, Crowell, Robinson, Spears. *

_

McGill Students Unavailable
For Harvest.

Students of. Quebee universities |
were asked to supply 800 senior stu- | |
dents to go to the State of Maine
for two weeks to help harvest the |
heavy potato crop there.

The request was considered on
Saturday by McGill authorities. They
decided that it would seriously disorganize the studies of those students whom the Government now
allows to remain at the University.

 

AC Meanwhile Army and Navy were
tered and shaken after gaining a| battling it out at the Navy League
Recreation Centre, with the former
taking its second win of the year.
Navy, along with Dal, has still to

started |the season on the right foot with |’

 

Femme Sports
Prospects Bright

All in all, Tuesday was a pretty
active day for the girls at Dalhousie.
In the afternoon, about eight turned
out for hockey and showed promising
material. Coach Marj. Leonard
thinks we should have a good team.
Basketball went off with a good start
Tuesday night when old faithful
Juniors, Sophomores and many
Freshettes turned out for the second
practice of the season. First practice, last Tuesday night, was officially for freshettes only but a few
very keen upperclasswomen also attended, much to the delight of Marj
Leonard. Girls were divided into
two teams with*scores 10-4 first half,
and 8-6 second half, showing that all
players are pretty well of the same

Tigers Lose
Close One

To the amazement of all, the Dal
Tigers who had previously been defeated 18-0, came to life last Saturday and fought the top team of the
league almost to a standstill.

The score, 3-0, was no indication
of any superiority of the Axemen.
Some observers point out that
Acadia showed slightly more polish
in the backfield, but we blame the
score on the fact that the Tigers
stopped play whenever they saw
what they thought was an infraction
of the rules, rather than continue
until the whistle was blown. We can
only repeat the old cry: “Play the
whistle.”

The Dal serum:showed remarka
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

       
  

  
     
       
    
     
    
        
       
     
       
  

ble improvement, getting the ball] ability with one or two having a few
out as often, if not more than their} years more experience.
opponents. The three-quarter line} Among newcomers, Joyce Hart

 
   

measured right up to the occasion
and really gained ‘ground. There
were no bad- passes which Acadia
could take, as Army had done; and
each man made sure he took out
one of his opponents before he passed the ball. Consequently Giberson,
and several times Currie, were able
to get around, through or over the
Acadia three-quarters. The fullback, Wade, played a fine game, cool

proved her agility as forward both
for scoring. and for speed and Dal
veterans Ann Saunderson, Marg
MacPherson, forwards, and Laurie
Bissett, guard, were all up to their
good old standards, while Norma
Sherman, Kay Cox and Marg MacDonald all showed very good speed.
Considering the little practice as
yet, all players showed remarkable
skill and good condition. With such

 
 
       
    
   
      
      
      
      
        
      
    
   

   
  

and unperturbed in some rather| very good material because of influx
tight spots. This is all the more|of girls from H.L.C., Edgehill and

 
  

   
 

remarkable since he played the In-| other parts, not forgetting forever

   
       
      

termediate game as well. There is| Dalsters, Dal will certainly have a
no doubt that Dal sorely needs alvery creditable girls’ basketbal
Senior fullback, for Wade needs{team.

  

slightly more experience in Intermediate games, and he certainly
can’t play on both teams. . Towards
the end of the game there were a
couple of substitutes necessary, and
some changes were made in the
backfield. Coach Ralston went in
as fly and -his. low kicks gained many
yards for Dal. It has become appareyt that high kicks are no longer

Coupled with the basketball, on
the other half of the floor, was badminton, which has already proved its
popularity among the girls. Laura
MacKenzie, girl’s badminton manager, and. Pat Hollis started it off,
and were soon joined by many others
whenever birds would permit!

Basketball and badminton were
played from 9 to 10, with badminton

       
        
      
        
      
      
         
      
     
         

Nery Depreica under Bow) dees continuing until 11. Many, who
rules and low kicks are much to be =

. d. Tackl; ail i oi) must be hounds for punishment,
Pe fig" yp bane ee tinea tg stayed on after the basketball to

    

greatly though these were still some
high ones. The general opinion
about the campus is that if Dal can
show the same spirit against Army
this Saturday, the previous defeat

“knock around the bird’.

       
 
 

All turnouts have been well attended and very promising. So let’s
keep them that way, girls, and show
the boys we have spirit!

  
    
    

 

     
    
    
 
          
     
   

 
  
    

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

       
    
   
 
    
    
 

 

Say

Nae Mf
FY TM RT i,

 

A.good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking
Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

Following is the text of a state-| Softball :
ment released recently by the Physi- | Touch Football (Indoor)
cal Education Department of the} Volleyball r= ff
University: r Tumbling \

    
 

ment of the University will sponsor

  
 
     
       
     
   
 

with little previous experience, who
would like to take part, either in a
competitive activity or a recreational
‘and leisure time activity. All classes

each and every class they should
elect to participate in.

 

     
     
      

    

  
  

Pyramid Building 3
Corrective Physical Training Ex
“The Physical Education. Depart
instructive classes in the various _ SFCISES -£
games and skills listed below. It is} Beginner Swim Class
our desire especially to teach those| Diving and Life Saving Class

Tennis and Golf Class

European Handball

Social Dancing (Beginners) t
“We are all aware of the health, “ ||

are voluntary of course and all stu-| educational; corrective and recreadents will be warmly welcome to|tive values which are obtainable 7

through Physical activities, and as

According to| conditioning and keeping fit is of

 

the interest’ shown, the following | greatest importance during wartime, |

classes will be formed: |let us resolve to join the classes '
Basketball Fundamentals | that are of interest to us. a
Track and Field Class | “Time table forms are obtainable |
Soccer (Indoor) at the office of the Physical Director t
Hockey (Indoor) j}and should be filled in as soon as
Gymnastics (Apparatus) possible in order to start classes i
Boxing immediately.’
Wrestling > a |
Jui-Jitsu & Close Combat Fighting It seems strange for a cat to have |
Badminton [ nine lives;
Danish Calisthenics | “But just imagine that a frog
Fencing croaks every day! d

 

_

——

The best |
chocolate made i

           
    
 

 
   
   
   
   
    
   
     
  
  
    
  
   
    

     
   

Men’s and Young Men’s

SMART FELT HATS

OU’LL be wanting a new felt for Fall wear....
Choose it at EATON’S!...In our Men’s Wear
Department on the Main Floor you will find a choice of
models: types suitable for men and young men in the
range. Plan to purchase your new hat at EATON’S!

mt 3.75 * 7.50

EATON’S Men's Wear Department—Main F loor

“1.5 ATON rtd

MARITIMES

    

   
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 
  
