 
  
 
  
 
   
      
 
   
  
  
   
    
         
       
     
     
     
     
           
     
     
       
        
     
    
        
 
 
     
    
        
       
 

re wits’ ih

¢ ms ¥ . a Tl &
1 lal r) .; i) Bee
ec ar net n. q 40 4 at § a
7 rs ot eh sy, A a == \ si s
F Lt Be ety # : a7

arr

    
 

i "
— , 2
* @ Shae a e rh ;
. 2 ‘ } ‘ + ‘
r : 5 ; = ' :
et ey ee er - . - a 6
a y oy a es es Tj h. t
ry Li, ae os :
7 fi, ~ Pas oe :
Ll ‘ f ay
“ “ -) x 3 ¥ Ps 4 e& fi a i. a
=e Pp : -_ . ' : h
x Prat me ed } ~ =
’ : Ls Fadl ze ot oma
ee ck r ts i >
J ‘ :

   

 

wr
*,
ing the student an opportunity
‘Information on the newly formed
_. Naval Training Detachment was
; _ provided prospective enlistees, Wed| nesday night, by Lieutenant W. E.
Flavell, District U.N.T.D. training
“4 officer. The course, designed for
» students contemplating eventual

ry active service with the navy, will
_ consist of six hours per week

_ stretched over a sixteen week period
plus a two-week-camp in the early
summer. Dalhousie, Kings and
- Nova Scotia Tech will be represent_ ed in the detachment and headquarters have been set up at the
Forrest Building as a convenient
, commuting point. Enlisting  re. -eruits must be 17% years at the
minimum, although students within
reach of that age may attend lec_ tures as civilians in the interim. All
faculties of the university with the
exception of Medicine and Dentistry are eligible for the U.N,T.D.,
although technicians and engineers
f » will enlist as “stokers 2” while
| Arts, Science and Commerce et al
_ will follow the prescribed syllabus
_ for ordinary seamen, Commanding
- Officer of the Dal-Kings-Tech U.N.
T.D. is Prof. F. R. Hayes, with the
rank of Lieut.-Commander (special
division). Parade hours have not
yet been arranged.

a

‘
~

 

Major Hogan, when interviewed,
stated plans for the C.O.T.C. have
oy not been finalized. “A change of
command has been made.” he said.
 - #€ol. C. P. Smith, M.C., has been
transferred to the Corps Reserve,
and Lieut. Col. F. H. M. Jones, M.C.,

eit

  

  

 
  

| ee} Sept. 15,”

‘The C.0.T.C, has been badly shot
through the summer, with many of

our best men going on Active Ser. vice,” the Major pointed out. “All

  

   

te SN _ Curtis, and.2nd Lts. Hagen, LeVatte,
| and Charchill-Smith, have been lost.
= “We are still in the throes of reorganization. but expect all men to
-—s«édbe.- outfitted and down to active
ss training by next week. It is anti
  

amine all students who are not now

 

  

tudents’ Approval:

PATTERSON OUT; McKINNON IN AS PRES.

_-——-s With the recent formation of a Universiity Naval Training Detatchment, Dalhousie will
have on its campus this year a representation of Canada’s three armed services. The C.0.T.C.,
oldest unit connected with the University, and the U.A.T.C., organized last year, complete
_ the list. All three units are accepting recruits under the compulsory training program, giv
__aetive service during or at the completion of his university studies.

 

Freshman Class.

by Glee Club executives who will in
assumed command of the unit|

our Company officers except four, Lt. |

-_ eipated our Medical Board will ex~
my

ening.

, iy fies Bul.
a aetae?

Emam as berate, |,
Ky ea t
FP Dit
sae 2 ee 3 a 7
a
# 4


HALIFAX, N. 58., O

  

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  

Comps
Organize

Major R. VY. Hogan (left) and
Flight Lieutenant Comeau (right),
chief instructors, respectively, of
the C.O.T.C. and U.A.T.C. units
at Dalhousie this year. Training
Officer for the newly formed University Naval Training Detachment is Lieut. W. E. Flavelle.

 

to obtain preliminary instruction prior to being called to

    
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
    
  
     
  
  

Frosh Flash
Stunning Stems

Once again the Frosh have invaded our Campus. The crop of
1943-44 tallies one hundred and
sixty, hailing from practically every
Province in the Dominion, and from
the United States of America and
the British West Indies. Already
they are becoming part of Dalhousie, and according to reports
from their “upper classmen”, they
are the most co-operative group yet
to bear the burden of three weeks
of Initiation. Speaking of Initiation, it is to be noted that broad
smiles greet the approach of the
Freshmen, abashedly making their
debut in rolled-to-the-knees pants,
ties worn backwards, plus lovely
green bows and the customary placards around their necks. - The
cosmeticless Freshettes have their
beauty and glamour enhanced by the
wearing of a green bow garter-wise
below the knee.

Last Friday the Freshman Class
had their first glimpse of a “Dal”
party when they were guests (more
or less compulsory ones) at a dance
at Shirreff Hall. After regalia had
been issued and assumed, Gordon
Hart, on behalf of the Committee,
welcomed the Frosh to Dalhousie,
and after the first shyness had been
overcome by the solicitous attentions of the Committee, dancing
proceeded apace to the excellent
music provided by Walter Keefe and
his orchestra. During the evening
four students were picked as typical
of their class, Edna Tobin and
Theresa MacLean, Freshettes, and
Alan Ernst and Lewis King, Freshmen, and additional bows and placards designating the honor were
bestowed on them. The four were
featured in a dance, and it is expected that they will appear as
partners at the Freshie-Soph Dance.

For the benefit of the Frosh, we
have been asked to repeat that it

New Format

For Glee Club

At a meeting Wednesday afternoon, plans were crystallized by the
Glee Club executive for the forthcoming 1948 Freshman Show, the
annual stage revue presented by the
Under the aegis
of Prexy Barbara White, the meeting decided upon a different format
for this year’s revue, and several
radical departures from the presentation policy of the last few years.

Since the Freshman Show is theoretically produced by the Freshman
Class itself, the executive decided
that a Freshman director, if a capable one can be found, should guide
the revue from its primary rehearsals to its opening night. Also,
rather than featuring isolated spots
of individual specialties, it was decided to have a continuity script
written for the Show, in order to
make a smoother and more logically worked-out program.

Meanwhile, a talent hunt has been
inaugurated among the Class of ’47

terview Frosh individually to garner hitherto undeveloped talent and
to exploit talents already establishes to the greatest advantage of
the Show.

A seript conference has been
scheduled early in the new week,
tentative try-out, rehearsal, and
production dates have been arranged. The Freshman Class is urged to
watch for announcement of the date
of the try-outs, when those who
have been spoken to by Glee Club
scouts should appear to be cast.

  

Major Hogan promised a more
definite statement on C.O.T.C. plans
as soon as they are finalized.

 
     
    
 
 
 

Flight Lieutenant Comeau, chief
‘instructor of the U.A.T.C. preferred to withold a press release on the
unit’s policy pending the arrival,
this week or next, of Flight Lieut.
Paul Moseley, director of U.A.T.C.
operations for No, 3 Training Com‘mand. Training will be four morning 8 to 9, and one

a

 

training programs as soon as
possible.

    

 
 
     
 
     
  
  
  

 

ing recruiting slogans:
“Join the O.T.C. and see the

       

      

     

evi i iN, . Gym.” :
I< 3 hile all three organizations| “Join the U.N.T.D. and see the
' Ree th n 1eK dic a) r rary in- Wren a? I :
See aL ee i “Join the U.A,T.C, and see the
hy dawn.” en oe wre * .
:) & a 4 r

  

Ce i LN Bie

The Gazette suggests the follow
   

:

r

.
a

. 4 mh te F d)
be A Fd
Asn
ea bis
a :
Petr 7
* ft vos if ms key
a ¢ . * mets P
, Wie *
3 i

yet sta *

f
>

alhousie Gazette

}

a,
- , 4 :

 

CTOBER 8, 1943 _

   
 

ae - ae) eae a2 ry Dated | \ oe hate
; 1 , 4 ee fa nyo =") Nga ay Va ae
a : aes a Pav Tine a) peer | f, oe fe org a ry C. {te Sen" eat peel
iN eA, 2! Ss ws a ks 4 ry : Bee " ‘ er a an sed : 3 fH e 0 7 FP ee - ee ot Jee ge
ef ; a4 Y a, ip ~ a A BR £4 . pitts eee Week i a , : P a4h fi
MRA aie Rr ed of - vate ete intl i Oe ee Sa Mite ter Pt Vt
vt ee : * & a pep wa hte Sse || ey Sy E ead nee ye ’ 7
5 ui a J a te a ; ark ad Me AP a a? “Att eae. lite no hice ee
Dep eer FSi eae or et Ire PT OT Ne eee PE RS
‘; a # ' ae ; r =e I

*
q - Fi ; Ad i ; Ai a
’ uw Mr eer id 4 ' j
meet ° ‘ ee ‘ - a ' 5 wh 4%, * me > . 4 - ‘ =A, & ' + ’ ¥ : a
' oe
© a :
’ «

 

 
 
     

 

- mh +. uy +? 4 “2 " =) 4] . 7-4 1 aie au! ' ae
- A a ar . > P ‘ f = 1 s Le 9 > A
"= ys At! - ur +7y - > Arye oat Bitar. ! = . d r oa i - 7 7

a
as

&
“

 

fi 7 f
E + y

Freshie-Soph on 15th’ Education, Not Training, ,
AppointmentsApproved Aim of Universities |

A bombshell exploded at Wednesday’s Students’ Council

Council President,
was announced,
- “due to pressure of
_ studies”. Ken MacKinnon, Vice-President, was chosen
as President pro_ tem, pending rati: fication by the stu' dent body at a

forum to be held

Patterson in the near future.
Patterson expressed his regret at
being forced to discontinue as head
of the Council, but said he felt the
student body would understand his
position. The Council passed a vote
of thanks to Tom for his fine work.

terson, popular


  

The grave constitutional question
occasioned by the resignation was
settled, temporarily at least, after
lengthy discussion by the Council,
with the appointment of Ken MacKinnon as President. This appointment will have to be voted on at a
Forum of the student body before
it becomes final. Barbara White became first Vice-President in MacKinnon’s place, and Jean MacDonald was elected second Vice-President. These appointments must also
be ratified by the students.

Other business carried out by the
Council ineluded a decision to hold
the Freshie-Soph dance on October
15, and a committee, consisting of
Bill Hagen, Laurie Mackenzie and
Barbara White, was appointed to
arrange for the Student Council

Dance. Appointments of Art Hartling as Business Manager of the

Glee Club, and Peter Donkin as Secretary-Treasurer were approved and
an advance of $110 on the Club budget was voted. Alex MacDonald was
appointed to the Gate Receipts Committee to act with Larry Sutherland,
replacing G. Smith, now in the
Army.

is of paramount importance that
they be thoroughly conversant with
the rules, and able to recite any and
all of them upon requests; that they
shun the Senior Walk as “No-Frosh
Land”; that the respect due upperclassmen must be accorded them;
that lucifers (matches to you!) he
kept on hand; that Freshettes have
countenances unadorned by make-up
of any kind; and that all Frosh
be scrupulous in the wearing of regalia. Be warned in time,—penalties are already being handed out
by the lynx-eyed Committee.
may be the next!

Scheduled for the Class of 1947
are a tour of the Archives, a tea at
Shirreff Hall for the Freshettes, a
Students’ Council Dance, and finally
the Freshie-Soph Dance on October
15th, which will delightfully terminate Frosh miseries. To Frosh, the
phrase “cordially invited to attend”
this last-mentioned dance means “be
there,—or else!”

 

When the Roll is Called Up Yonder and the Gold D’s for Gazette
work are handed out, will you be
there? Anyone interested in giving
his or her all, or part of it, is requested to come to the Gazette office between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.
| Tuesday morning, or between 3.30
and 5 p.m. Tuesday afternoon, and
Imeet the Mditor.

me

A Welcome

YOU_

 

President Stanley extended a cordial welcome to all new

we meeting | students and members of the faculty in his address to the
when the resignation of Tom Pat- University last Thursday at noon.

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    

ROR The President was preceded by
Colonel K. C. Laurie, Chairman of
the Board of Governors of the University. Col. Laurie stated that, despite necessary wartime curtailment
!of many phases of University life,
the Board of Governors was trying
to provide for the mental, physical
and spiritual growth of the students.
Measures were also being taken to
provide meals and housing accommodations for students who desired
them. Students were promised that
a system is soon to go into effect
under which male students will be
able to obtain meals at Shirreff Hall
twice daily.

 

The President chose as his topic
“The Meaning of Science” in
its broadest sense. He pointed out
the distinction between education and training, and ‘stated
that from a combination of these a
worthy product could be obtained.
A University’s task was not to provide technical training, which, due
to the great specialization of modern industry, is hardly possible, but
to develop in students those qualities that are a pre-requisite to any
technical training. The President
stated that these views were shared
by engineers and technicians who
held commanding positions in British and American industry.

President Carleton Stanley

~

To New Students

I gladly accede to the suggestion
of the Editor of the Gazette, and
write a word of welcome to our new
students.

On Tuesday last you were told of
the Dalhousie tradition by Colonel
Laurie, the Chairman of the Board
of Governors. What I should like to
say to you, as an entering class this
year, is that you not only become a
part of that tradition on your entry
here: you may, as a group, change
that tradition; you may change it
for the better. We all regard you,
therefore, with high hopes as we
welcome you. I know from the seriousness with which you listened to
our addresses on Tuesday that I
need not labour this theme any further,

The President ranked intelligence,
adaptability and initiative as chief
among the qualities that would provide a foundation for a technical
training. The possession of these
qualities would permit a man to apply his knowledge and training to
any situation that might arise.

In acquiring a thorough liberal
education from literature one automatically acquires much knowledge
of a technical nature from the great
men of the period. The President
illustrated this point by referring
to the works of Darwin in the 19th
century. He thus drew the attention
of the audience to the great difficulty involved in trying to provide
a strict line of demarcation between
essential and wunessential studies.
Mathematics was cited as still another example of an _ unessential
study of the utmost practical importance.

Once more, the best of luck to

each of you!

CARLETON STANLEY,
President.

 

~

1943
YEAR BOOKS

*

Dr. Stanley concluded by wishing
the Student Body success and happi- ~>
ness in all their activities through- |
out the academic year. eo

nee

A few are still on hand. You
can get yours at ROY’S STORE
now for $2.50. ;

Meds can get theirs from Ken
MacKinnon at Phi Rho.

F-L-A-S-H

Council Dance Next
Friday

The Students’ Council has announced its annual dance will be
held next Friday, Oct. 15, in the
Gym, with dancing from 8.30 p.m.
to 12. Don Low’s Orchestra will
play, and admission will be 5c,
or by Students’ Council ticket.
Chairman of the Dance Committee is Bill Hagen.

The Western Gazette reports a
sign on its Observatory, with a sign
“Lover’s Retreat”, and scrawled beneath it the cynical comment, in a
feminine hand, “The hell they do.”

WORM
Worm
Him dummy
Him got no mummy
Him got no legs at all
Him crawl on tummy
Him dummy
Worm.
(End of poem)
—McGill Daily.| Goyern Y ou’
But mamma, I’m not hungry, | Monday br’
just ate the raisins off the fly paper.'es will be.

 

af : oe

ei ME "8 =
ae Ge ee)

a

- = =

 

= = =
= —
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
    
   
    
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
 
   
   
 

a 1869 — “The Oldest College Paper in America”

is pres in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
s it cannot be ‘assumed that: they represent the opinion of

.

 

 

«GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44

in-Chief Bia haere NERS, Ae) nal ecw al nhc cle nm W-9%s ¢ Ted ae
Manager PRR Tah Aika Dic yh ale ate 91 bet ie Kevin Barry
ORR RE RE UN Le a ihida Via so Sk G8, 018 Jim MacLaren
heh itn tate a Siren y's Pratt oe eee ‘Bob McCleave
re ie ne NYS ic kako ies ae Bill Pope
ee ea oe ye ene es Lou Collins

- er unannounced
af coer ier a als bes , PAL sey wit clafrn: Bax ot John Hibbetts

ne ‘Campbell, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Eileen Phinney
Peter Donkin

Pe a |... OUR POLICY

Ample and all too forceful testimony to the power of the
ean be found in any European country today, where the

ty with which the totalitarian governments of the Axis

over the newspapers and journals of the conquered coun
is Ppp exceeded by the utter ruthlessness of the control

his power of the press extends even to the Gazette, perothe one great denominator of Dalhousie’s two campi, its
@ faculties, its dozen degree and diploma courses, its hunads of students. There has been apparent in the past a tenney to minimize the place of the Gazette, to run it in the inests of a few and to the disadvantage of the university as
_ whole. Such a dangerous weapon must not be mishandled!
alizing this, the present staff has drawn up a policy on gen4 ‘lines which we believe will, if followed, make the paper
rthier of the great university it represents.
OUR POLICY: To strive in every issue to serve the inie asts and needs of the student body; to vigorously and operfly
+, year 1ounce all actions we believe unfair and dangerous to the
& ‘student body, no matter from what source they may stem; to

_ strive for a closer relationship and understanding between the
students, as represented by their Council, and the Faculty; to

_ work for a strengthening of the bonds between the Forrest and
_ Studley campi by a clearer comprehension by each of the
| D _other’s problems.

_  . Certain changes will be embodied in the paper, carrying
on last year’s policy of never allowing the paper to become
px stereotyped and unvaried. More Special and F'aculty issues are
| _ planned, (Arts and Science and Medicine have already been apig . pe proached and hope to bring out editions), features popular with

| _ the: students will be continued, and those which arouse little
, enthusiasm will be quickly dropped, editorials will be shorter,
/ _“hews from the professional schools will be enlarged, and the

 

 

 

lish Impression of a French-Canadian Town

- This summer it was the privilege
Miike the writer of this article to spend
ee two. months in the little town of
Beenie, in the province of
. ¢, about- one hundred and fifty
+ miles fon Quebec City.
Pa  Trois-Pistoles or Three Pistols as
be > - is known to its many Englishcee visitors nestles close to the
ae re 4 ~ the St. _ Lawrence and

the smaller and less modern but
more picturesque shops.

As the street approaches the more
rural areas these shops give way
to the homes of the town’s inhabitants. In general they are built
quite close to the street, and a
goodly number of the more pretentious ones are built of red_ brick.
Several “re patterned on medieval
castles and give a thoroughly oldworld atmosphere to the little town.

SATURDAY NIGHTS

Probably the most interesting

| time to take a walk along the main
streets is on Saturday evening. If
the weather is fine the streets are
erowded with both young and old
alike. There are no theatres in
Trois-Pistoles and apart from visiting a small cafe frequented by the
younger people, walking is the principal diversion. One meets blackstockinged, circumspect matrons

‘ ¥ * ~

7 ‘ ~ eT eRe gO acta ae 7 pre oe a eee es Oe a ee :o ene a
° —" ’ fe Oo eee : ; Pio ey | |)
on Tee Soe ee ee ee om, fo — ; : cal
Pin nik hae oan ; ; on Pie
a po F =, om re a ‘ : hn

t landmark for bike shipping for

out many loads of lumber from the
WH  hinde orland.

} QUEBEC MODEL
_Trois-Pistoles itself is divided into
vo parts, the upper town and the
ver town, on the pattern of Quebec
_ There are two principal

streets, one for each part’ of the
ae ‘Quite narrow during the day
_ they are filled with a mixture, curi. ons. at Roget to the town’s English

‘visitors, of the most|@ressed in long, dark dresses and
nobiles and of all types |@tmed with large baskets and an air
vehicles from a| of purposeful importance, who are

| the week’s provisions, and the older
men of the vicinity who have
brought their wives to town and now
gather to talk and smoke at some
convenient place like the Bureau de
Poste or the Centrale.

They too dress in dark colors

a "noms in ae

re-| the bright red shirt of a younger

y|and perhaps more daring lumber‘e not| man or farmer. All of them, both
boasts | men and women, dearly love color
store | but perhaps, with a sidewise glance

 
 
  

 

  
 
 
      
 

|day as “the provision of trained personnel to help win the war,

“SPEED THE VICTORY”

From all points of the compass, from distances as far apart
as British Columbia and the West Indies, a stream of students |
through the past month has filled the twin campi of Studley
and Forrest for Dalhousie’s fifth wartime session. In this first
issue of its seventy-sixth year of publication, the Gazette extends a hand of welcome to one of the largest freshman classes
of several years, and to all our old friends who have been battered in the mill of English 2, histories, biology, psychology,
geology, and economics with us, a cordial greeting.

The, responsibilities of the University in wartime are
numerous and heavy; no one, freshman, post-grad, or professional student, must shirk the extra load he will be asked to
bear. We will all share the victory when it comes, and the
cleaner, braver world which will result. To deserve a place in
that world, every student must accept the restrictions which
a wise government, foreseeing the need of educated men in
founding a post-war civilization, has considered essential if
universities are to be kept open,

Dr, H, J. Cody, President of the University of Toronto, has
defined the threefold responsibility of Canadian universities to
the education of citizens who will take part in post-war reconstruction, and the preservation of cultural heritages of the
past.”

This is a definite goal; Jet us keep it always in sight.

Mass, they feel this is the privilege
of the young and the less serious,
And indeed the young French-Canadians allow themselves full expression through this medium,

arms to the old, old-man with the
white flowing beard who walks ever
so slowly with the aid of his eane.
A cleanliness seems to emanate from
them, a spirit of devotion and religious zeal perhaps, for all are going
towards the beautiful church in the
very centre of the town. It is the
hour of the Mass.

Soon everyone is in his place and
the service begins. Above us in the
baleony the older men lend their
voices to form a choir as they sing
the chants. Just above the altar in |:
another gallery are the nuns from
the local convent, making their devietions.

Finally the priest enters the pulpit
and preaches his sermon. As he
does so perhaps the eye of the

Gay colors are everywhere, even
the boy’s shirts are alive with it.
In contrast to the dark hair and eyes
of these young people the brilliant
colors of their clothing stand out
in bold relief. Nor it is displeasing
to the eye for these young people
have in general excellent taste.
Their natural gaiety seems to go
hand in hand with their attire and
the streets seem filled to over-flowing with a vital joyful awareness
of the sweetness of life. Up and
down the streets they stroll talking
and laughing almost without ceasing

 
     

going about the task of obtaining |

‘| though now and then you will see|

 
     
  
    

until someone remembers that tomorrow is the Mass: Most of the
people of the town go to the service
at six o’clock, so, at the early hour
of ten the streets are again left
tranquil and almost deserted, except for the late shopper or the store
keeper who is hurrying home after
his busy evening’s work.

SUNDAY SERVICE

And now it is Sunday morning.
Again the streets are filled but there
is no longer the careless gaiety of
the evening before. Everyone is
dressed in his Sunday best from the
smallest baby who is carried carefully and proudly in her mother’s

visitor will stray to the large clock
which stands just at the foot of the
steps leading to the altar. Today,
however, he does not need to fear
for the sermon is short, and soon the
Mass is over and once again everyone is outside the church talking in
little groups about the happenings
of the week.

Let us leave them there as we

curselves stand upon the church
steps and look northward across the
mighty St. Lawrence, and listen to
the sound of that perhaps stranger,
but peculiarly charming language
that is one with the Province of
Quebec.
—J. B. H.

AN APPEAL

The Dalhousie Gazette takes this
opportunity of ‘making a direct appeal to the student body for contributions to its literary page.

There must certainly be members
of the university who have promising talents in this direction but who
have, in the past been too busy or
perhaps too disinterested to bring
them to light.

The Gazette should not owe its
publication, week after week, to the
efforts of its editorial staff—a relatively small representation on the
eampus. The Gazette, an undergraduate organization dedicated
through the years to the progressive
development of the university,
should, as such, attract the whole
STUDENTS...

4
hearted interest and support of each
and every student connected with
this institution.

In brief, why not give the bunsenburner or the latin grammar a rest
and seratch off a literary gem for
the Gazette in a moment of inspira-,
tion? Such action will have twofold results. You will have displayed a more than casual interest
in a campus activity and will have
received, in recognition of your
work, points towards the coveted
Gold D.

This much needed cooperation has
been sorely lacking in the past.
There is every reason to hope for a
change in the future.

See Roy at the Dal Gym Store for a complete line of

College Supplies, and Refreshments—hot or cold.

The Common Room of the Campus.

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 Spring Garden Road
3-9754

We Cater to Collegians

 

DALHOUSIANS...
for your TOILET ARTICLES,

     
  

CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
STREET

 

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET |
29 COBURG ROAD
@

 

    

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

MEDICINES, PERFUMERY

_ LORD een HOTEL

 

I ~~-— ——

October 8, 1948

 

A Word of
Welcome

Birks extend to newcomers and returning
students a cordial welcome to bring their gift
problems to Birks.

After any Show

        
         
      
       
       
   
 
    
 
 
    
  
   
 
   
 

OF 3 as

Before any Meal

Come and visit—even if
you have no problem.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,

American Gem Society
Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

 

For Sporting
Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

    
  

  

BLAKELEY’S

O

  

   

WELCOME
TO
DALHOUSIE

 
     

Call on

O

      
 

43 Spring Garden Road PIANOS — CHURCH ORGANS

SHEET MUSIC -— RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at. the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING
will be valuable aid in future years.

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

FARMERS’

MILK

ALWAYS PURE
ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME |

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standin , leading t
of haa g, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inelusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men. ;

Jt ae aa
ia aie be

 

 

*»
    
 

Glintimate Impses

. This is a series of articles which form a supplement to the
“Mentor”, popular feature of the Gazette two years ago, in which
college life, in all its 'trivialities, was sketched. This series will deal
with “After University—What?”

The Art of Being Sociable

The first thing that the young college student will discover,

when he reaches that indefinite object graduation speakers so

»

Lot.

"

*


or,

if
‘
Ms

wt

asking a question;

  
  
   
     
       
      
    
     
   
   
   
   
 
 
 

.
A

s,

ae)
i 4 =

| a

  

|

i
‘af

>
fy

‘ - stein’s pa to reading the so
lovingly describe as “the cold, stern world with its illimitless
prospects for youth” and which presumably has not been met
before by the student, is Society. This in itself is not startling,
but the student should not be blinded to its implications. Here
he will learn a living, ete., and so on.

Society is a collection of people acting like monkeys. I believe one dictionary defines it the other way around, but that
does not matter in an article of small scope as this must
necessarily be. The college student, who has learnt we have
descended from monkeys, and not with them, is at a disadvantage from the start. By the time his smatteri ing of unignorance has gone, he is a monkey, too, and it makes no difference.
But until that time, he will suffer the growing pains of any
sane person forced to drivel and frolic with the multitude, the
hoi polloi, the proletariat, or the mass.

The main difference is that he has grown up (the difference between the minute before getting a degree and the
minute after ranks with some people as years of mentality).
Whereas before his father, and he alone, held the throne at the
top of the table with between-slurp blurps on international
affairs and affrays, now Junior B.A. is in the same category.
“T think Mackenzie King is a metabiological pentateuch,” he
will say if he has studied any English, and who can argue with
him? His mother, who before this time would tell him to stop
saying nonsense, will seize upon this statement and spread it
all over the neighborhood. It’s
Society lose its faith in Liberalism.

Conversation is also an important part of Society. In
brief, it may be described as the peculiar vibrations of the air
caused by some kind of movement of the tongue. ‘The college
student, who has learned foreign languages in his thirst for
knowledge, will have an advantage over anybody else that
doesn’t know what he is talking about. For example, and this
will startle a lot of people, he can go to anywhere in the world
where French is spoken and say, “La plume de la tante est sur
la table—ou est is plume de Robert” and the inhabitants will
understand.

But we must not get deep about this thing called coliene:
It is best to deal with the main aspect of the Social problem.
This is something that has threatened us for ages. The limitless corridors of Mankind are filled with the wrecks of men who
have tried to conquer the problem and failed through CARELESSNESS. It is what fond mothers speak of only in whispers, and never to their son, unless they are understoodable
mothers, who are quite intimate with them.

I refer, of course, to the art of keeping a low hat on a highbrow, or, as the vulgar jocularly say, with sneers, “don’t get
high -hat”’. There it is, on a nut-shell. In his reconquest of the
Mass, the proletariaat, the politicians’ bread and butter, the
young man with education may be apt to seem a veritable snob.
It is something which defies all but the careful. One, without
thinking — indeed, one should never think —is apt to go up to
the home-town expert on politics and say to him that you don’t
agree that the government has brought ruin on the country in
its trade relations with Siam. Or question his statement that
“considering the figure of emigration into Canada, which I can’t
exactly place, but it must be a whole lot, anyway — why, that
sort of loosening of the law should not be allowed—all those
dratted furriners.”’

In college, under expert tutelage, the social problem as it
presents itself is easily and aptly handled. The problem, in its
simplest form, is “How can I meet other people?” To tackle it
as a professor does, proceed as follows: How—form of pronoun
can—receptacle for liquid or liquod foods;
I—me; other—not me; people—me and them. In other words,
how can I meet other ‘people? And proceed from there.

But once one gets away from the cold, hard unrealities of
a blackboard, and meets these people, the trouble begins. Do not
be timid about the meeting; go up firmly to the people, and
seize their arm in a hearty grip. If they get tough, flip them
over your shoulder. Always be considerate of others, and forget that you ever went to college; do not speak loudly in comoo and so on. In this way you will reconquer your monkey
 

. CONTESTS

Next week the Gazette will carry
its first in a series of contests to be
held throughout the season. All
“members of the University are eligible to make entries to them.

‘The contests will, in brief, consist of various subjects, to be introduced at regular intervals, and
will call into play, for example, the
contestant’s imaginative and crea_tive powers, or, as in another puzzle, a semi-psychological insight into a perplexing mob psychology
poser.

This series of contests has been
» designed by the editor to provide

that type of entertainment which}
has proved most popular in wartime,
ranging in style from the fascina- tion most people evince in Franken
a
counting for his side. Winners will
receive the doubtful distinction of
appearing in photograph on this
page at the end of the year, and
each get eulogized by the Gazette
Poet Laureate.

First puzzle wil! commence next
week. Contributions should be enclosed in a sealed envelope, containing the real name and a pseudonym
if desired. Editors will only condense
or edit contributions on the permission of the author. Judges’ word |
will be final.

  

| Write ee

         
     
  

things like that which make.

 

 

NOTES

(From Hippocrate’s Diary)

 

 

“And one man in his time ‘plays

many parts ... at first the infant
mewling and puking in the nurse’s
arms.” ;
* sd ok
First year medicine appears in
force this year, with members from
almost all Maritime universities, and
coming from widely scattered points
of the globe. Bravely they shiver
before the unknown, and bravely
they quake on hearing the awesome
prophesies of their teachers.

* x

Then there is second year medicine, seasoned veterans, or veterinaries, or something. For the gods
loved them, and their mortality was
high. But the spirit is with them
and they are undaunted. For it is
written, “Physician, heal thyself,”
and they healed.

* * Cy

What! The haggard third year
students are back at the job. They
worked all summer, and sweated all
summer, and cursed all summer.
And now, a solid khaki mob, they
begin some of the few novelties left
to them, such things as pathology
and obstetrics, or genetics, or what
have you? :

* * cd

And now for brave fourth year!
What ho! Not a man. Well, fourth
year was always uninteresting, anyway.

a ae

The worthy fifth year men are
somewhat scattered, or liquidated,
or something. For instance, there’s
Murray, Murray, and Mack at the
Victoria General. Jim Gough, or
Goof, is there, too. Guravich the
Gash is corrupting the health of St.
John. St. John, you will recall, is
the chief city of the infidel province
of New Brunswick, home of villians
and pirates. ,

* of *

Shortly C.0O.T.C. will begin again.
Already Uppie Moffat has conducted
long searches for a missing bootlace, or something, and Don Smith
did a beautiful. polishing job on his

boots. They are such good and
model soldiers, pride of the continent.

* x *

How now, Larry Sutherland, Cassanova Carcinoma malignans, how
do you mean, to snoof maliciously
about the campus looking for freshettes? Can you not take the worthy
example of Wall and the Wilk, who
live in the same place you do even,
and never look toward a female.

* * #

But now to the tune of Dr. Smith’s
stuttering cats, one hears: “These
our actors were all spirits, and are
melted into air, into thin air.”

Farewell, farewell, and farewell!

 

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednes.

“TROUBLE BREWING”
with George Formby

“OLD CHISHOLM TRAIL”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“ORPHANS OF THE NORTH”
and “LAW RIDES AGAIN”

     
     
    

  

     
   

THE
FLOWER SHOP
37 BLOWERS STREET _
Phone 3-7133 HALIFAX

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College
Offers Engineering Courses in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience
for Calendar or advice to

F. H. SEXTON, President.

eee ee Men! ee
Dees eos

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE /

MEDICAL

 

PE ¥, Meee *

» plow

 

 

 

ARTS
AND SCIENCE

Avast, ye swabs—Arts and Science
makes itself heard, known, and its
members quiver in the anticipation
of its actually being talked about.
To date, we’ve been buried beneath
engineering drivel, med rantings and
dent sqawking, but after a summer’s extensive excavation, we have
seen the light. Behold! it dawns...

ge ee

Forrest Campus doesn’t boast the
only wolves What about the Heart
of Studley . .. not that we brag
about him... pulling the wool over
Andy’s eyes. Maybe Jo could tell us
something about that!

3B ue ae

Something new this year—afternoon tea for the football team. We
wonder if the salon music will be
“It’s a grand old name’?

Be at *

Who is interested in a league to
protect our freshettes from undecided engineers? Make up your
minds whom to ring for before you
arrive at the Hall, boys. Don’t forget that Jean and Leone have to
work together.

ae * *

Last year’s freshettes descended,
looked, groaned and promptly went
upstairs to muse over “days that
have as happy been,” when their
successors appeared “en masse”
Friday night.

ik * *

Speaking of Friday night, the
freshmen may look young: but they
sure settle down early. One of our
“typical freshmen” hung out the
HANDS OFF sign. Let us hope the
bows on knees, or should we say, the
knees on which the bows have appeared, won’t cause the gal at home
to lose her grip ... you never know.

* * *

Have freshmen begun to worry
over maintaining the satin smoothness of their knees or are October
winds just too much for them?
The general effect is most disconconcerting when the upperclassmen’s
girlish whistles cause many a manly
blush. Cheer up, youngsters, the
first four years are the hardest.

So, until we scrub down the decks
next time». .. maintain decorum...
but never mind, you’ll be caught
in the backwash anyway!

 

GARRICK

Saturday

- Monday - Tuesday

“NOBODY’S DARLING”
with Mary Lee

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday
“MRS. V FROM MOSCOW”
and “BOSS OF BIG TOWN”

 

 

OXFORD

Mon., Tues., Wed., Oct. 11, 12, 13

“LET’S FACE IT”
with Bob Hope and Betty Hutton

“CRASH DIVE”

Tyrone Power and Anne Dexter

 

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

Follow the rest of the boys
for your Footwear to

SHANE’S SHOE STORE
397 BARRINGTON ST. 3-9144

   
  
    
   
 

   

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS
Y¥.M. C.A. Building Halifax
Phone 3-6881

  
 
 

    
    

Fim Pc. sae eee Se vn

oe =
<FTs ee " oa ¥

 

Page Three

 

(er cence eeeeeEeNeneinntie

“IT DOES TASTE GOOD IN A PIPE!”

 

Join the Picobac Fraternity. It means
pleasant hours in every day—hours of mild,
cool sweet converse with a pipe—that companion which enlivens company and enriches solitude.

Picobac

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

CAPITOL

CASINO

*

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

ROBERT TAYLOR

scion Wes

“BATAAN”
*

Thurs.,

Starting Saturday

“MR. BIG”

Wed., Friday, Sat.

“Best Foot
Forward”
with

HARRY JAMES
and his ORCHESTRA

with

 

Donald O’Connell
Gloria Jean
Peggy Ryan

 

Tat bitin Femething!

...- YOu can
spot it every time

WhOUTe in everything it does,
goes for the people and things
thatare “right.” That’s why youth
goes for ice-cold Coca-Cola. It
is “right” ...in quality ...in
taste... and in refreshment.
It’s the drink that belongs to
youth’s ritualofrefreshment.

And there’s reason for this.
Ice-cold Coca-Cola has
what it takes ...a clean,
fresh taste...
?” unmistakable
, refreshment. A

special blend of
flavour-essences
merges all the wholesome ingredients of
Coca-Cola intoan original

taste of its own.

* a oh
[It’s natural for popular names to acquire
friendly abbreviations. That’s why you
hear Coca-Cola called Coke. Both mean
the same...“*coming from a single source,
and well known to the community.”’

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
     
   
     
       

rah Aeneas
Ce Se nnn nes
ae ee

va

TRADE eda
Delicious and

mee

The custom in every neighbourhood...to enjoy
delicious ice-cold Coca-Cola . . though not as
often in wartime as before. ‘And remember
when you sometimes can’t get Coca-Cola, “it’s
because Coke, being first choice, sells out first.

See

The best is always the better buy!

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

HALIFAX ies

 

 
should have the effect of strength
re ‘summer ‘dimaxed by the
= baa the scene swiftly
from ‘sunny ball-parks to
nee Each day as the
cooler a crispy feel
; ta eho all football players
‘once again “don a uniform” and
the glamour, thrills, black eyes
pruised anne that only football
nousie football aspirants have
| faithfully practising under the
nl eye of Coach Burnie Ralson. The turnouts have been rather
due at ett 7
E ‘ _ promising, and the boys have been
|. running around ironing out any
re kinks that may have come during
the summer, and under Ralston’s di- rection have been getting a “dose of
i calisthenics” guaranteed to take off
any, excess weight.
* * *
tee ‘There will be two teams this year
ali —Senior and Intermediate. A numof last. year’s Senior team are
at again | on hand, among whom are
| a). Bill Hagen, Gordie Hart, Dick Cur“Alas and Mclver.
_ The Intermediates of last year ap_ ~peari for practice include Art
aces Mike Waterfield, J. Me"Kenna, and “Dee” Grant.

It seems that a good number of
ame ‘football players have come in from
other colleges, especially Mount Al‘ pees and St. Francis Xavier, which

| noon, for the past ten days,

ening Dalhousie and improving the
Tigers’ prospect for a successful
season. K. Carton from St, F. X.
has been impressive in workouts.

Some of the players coming from
Mount Allison who have shown up
for daily practice are Jim Henderson, Eric Jardine, Ken MacLennan,
Dave MacKay, Doug Ray, Art Marshall, Nate Epstein’ and Lloyd Allen,

Also a number of players from
Queen Elizabeth High School are
turning out. Many of these boys
are light but make up for this deficiency with speed, and undoubtedly
some will find places on the Intermediate team,

OM *

There are four entries in the Halifax English Rugby League this year
—Army, Navy, Acadia, and Dalhousie. The season opens October 11th
with Army and Acadia clashing.
The Tigers get into the fray October
16th, meeting Army.

Competition is rumored to be very
tough this Fall. Navy, always the
producer of good teams, is said to
be stronger than ever. Army, UsuUally unpredictable, has several good
players. Coach Ralston, however, is
not at all downhearted and expects
to have a good season. With several
Seniors back from last year and the
team enhanced by newcomers from
other universities, Dalhousie Tigers

Maritime Academy of Music, Ltd.

HARRY DEAN, A.R.C.O.,

R.C.M. (Leipzig), Director

98 HENRY STREET

Expert instruction from Rpaiaulits from the lowest
grades to graduation from the Academy. Licentiate
Music Diploma and Bachelor of Music degree from

Dalhousie.

3-6632 Branches:

. Telephone:

Bedford, Dartmouth and Halifax

jcoming year, a variety of games

® Whether you examine them for
beauty, for fine writing performance,
for ink capacity, or all round excellence, Parker Pens will always pass
with honors.

The Parker Pencil to match makes

a writing set that you'll be proud to
have both in school and in later life.
Get the folks to see them at any good
pen counter. Pen prices from $3.50
to $16.50, Pencils to match $1.50 to

$7.00.

' DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

lash on October 16

Regulations

Following are some of the more
significant passages from the recently published information circulated by Selective Service Headquarters in Ottawa respecting the
eall-up of male students in the University :

“Any male student of 18% years
or more who is subject to call under the National Selective Service
Mobilization Regulations and who
has attained a standing education
which is equal to that recognized
by the appropriate Provincial Department of Education as one which
should have been attained by a person of his age shall be considered
eligible for postponement to permit
him to continue his studies at the
discretion of the Mobilization Hones
concerned.

“No male student of the age of
184% years or more who is subject
to call under the National Selective

should hold their own and this year
turn the tables and subdue Acadia.

*% # *

Many sports have naturally suffered, due to effects of the war. Not
the least of these has been tennis.
There has been a shortage of balls
for some time and this summer tennis almost faded from the athletic
horizon. Nevertheless a tennis tournament is being rum at the University or will start in a day or two.
Balls have been obtained—we don’t
know where, but in sufficient quantity to run a successful tournament.
The Waegwoltic courts have been
secured for tournament use, and the
matches can either be played there
or at Dalhousie.

There was a tennis eup given to
Dalhousie during the last war to be
put up for annual competition. Oddly enough, after the first year, although many tournaments had been
started, the cup had never been won
until last year, when Phil Cole, the
smooth-stroking medical student and
ex-Eastern Canada junior champ,
captured the elusive prize.

It is expected that Cole will be

}on hand to defend his title and that

his stiffest opposition will come
from youthful Blair Dunlop, who,
despite his age, has had considerable
experience and is at present champion of the Waaegwoltic Club. The
finals will be played Saturday, October 16th.

Badminton and ping-pong enthu- |
siasts will not be altogether disap- |
pointed this year. Manager George |
Smith says that badminton will |
start in about a month’s tims, and, |
although birds are not as plentiful |
as in other Feats the game will be |
able to “carry on” |

x
. As for girls’ sports during the |
is |
offered, including such popular pas- |
times as basketball, badminton, |
ground hockey, archery, and golf. |
Miss M. J. Leonard is the new phy- |
sical instructress and under the
guidance sport should blossom out
into a successful season.

Friday - Oct. 8th

9 p.m.

WRESTLING

2 out of 3 Falls—60 Min. Limit

Paul Lortie vs.
Frank Valois

Battle Royal

No Time Limit

THE ANGEL
DUROCHER BENEDETTI
FAREWELL SKEKSZAY

Rush 65c; Reserved $1.00
Ringside $1.00
Tickets on Sale at Knight's
Also Wrestling Monday

Service Mobilization Regulations and
who has completed the requirements
for admission to 4 university, shall
be admitted to such university without the consent of the Mobilization
Board concerned,

“Any male student who has completed the requirements for admission to a university at an age approved by the appropriate Provincial Department of Education shall
be permitted to enter the university
and receive postponement of his call
under the National Selective Service Mobilization Regulations for
not more than one academic session
upon the report of the university.
Such postponement will be cancelled
in the event of failure at examinations or failure to comply with military training.”

The following resolution has also
been adopted:

“That any student, either man or
woman, of the age of 18% years or
more who fails to pass any yearly
or term examination required by
his or her university or college be
refused permission to continue his
or her studies in the university or
college- concerned until he or she
presents a permit so to do issued by
the appropriate National
Service officer,”

Selective

TIP TOP TAILORS

SERVING THE FINEST ARMED FORCES IN THE WORLD

Compliments of

THE HUGHES OWENS

CO. LIMITED

MONTREAL

*

EVERYTHING
FOR THE DRAWING OFFICE

 

OFFICERS

UNIFORMS

FOR ALL BRANCHES

OF THE SERVICE

Tailored to your measure and specifications

Since 1939, Tip Top Tailors has specialized
in the art of tailoring uniforms to measure
for officers of the Navy, Army and Air Force;

While specifications must, of course, be
rigidly adhered to, many officers exercise
their privilege of designating their own
quality, by having Tip Top Tailors build
their uniformsto specific measurements and
requirements.

That these officers have been completely
satisfied is proved by the fact that today we
are making more uniforms for officers than
at any time during the War.

Over three decades of tailoring-to-measure
experience is at your service. Our staffs are
thoroughly familiar with all phases of uniform requirements and will be glad to
advise you. The woolens which go into
your uniforms are of a uniformly high
quality—the tailoring the finest of which
Tip Top Tailors is capable, which means
the best there is.

We suggest that officers contemplating
ordering uniforms, anticipate their needs
and order as early as possible.

Limited

418-20 BARRINGTON STREET

TTS-F43C

,

 
