       

       
   
   
 
   
     
 
   

; *
eA
, “iD
¢
‘
'

   
   

~The Meani f Science
_ The Meaning of Sc
re (From an address to the mémbers of Dalhousie University, Oct. 5, 1943)
oy
| A : “Since.a number of students were unable tp attend President
 Stanley’s address last Tuesday, and since many others would
like a permanent copy of this important address, we have re»/ quested, and received the President’s permission to print it
‘in full.
Ruste. Se ie my self-imposed, but pleasant, task, at this season of the year,
ets meet the members of the University, to say a word of cordial welcome
Ke to newcomers on the staff and in the student body, and a word of encouragement all round. I never detain you very long. Last year I spoke to
, you, in a very general way, about books. I wondered whether this morn‘ing I might ask you, again in a very general way, to think with me about
what Science means. :
. I presume that some of you, even of those who are here for the first
| time, have glanced at the University Calendar, and have seen that when
the cornerstone of the original Dalhousie College was laid, it was called:
“A public seminary in which the youth of this and other British Provinces
may be educated in the various branches of Literature, Science and Use: ful Arts”—Literature, Science and Useful Arts. .
, On September 9, 1843, Thomas McCulloch died. He was the first
4 Principal of Dalhousie University. About twenty-five years before his
death, he delivered a lecture at the opening of the building of Pictou
Ld Academy, on “The Nature and Uses of a Liberal Education”. He thought
.s it necessary, even in 1818; to refer to those who were opposed to a liberal
ianuasioa: and he tho it might " liberal
education, and he thought it might be of advantage to show “how a libe:
' education bears upon the duties of the social state’. After mentioning
ag inevitable, training for lawyers, doctors, and clergymen, he went on to
| say: “The object of education is not merely knowledge but ‘Science.
a ‘nowledge had to do with known facts: science with the comparisons and

~

  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
   

.~

    
 

 

     
  
  

m quality of related individual facts; in other words, with abstract
 _-traths or principles: “These principles are the primary objects of science,
_ -which in its various parts constitutes the materials of a learned educafs 9 then | ,
McCulloch said that he was merely illustrating, not fully expounding,
a: the nature and uses of a liberal education. oe Seen
are placed in a world today which is very much changed tro
| the Weve Seatia of 1818. Changed very much indeed by the application
-_ geientifie principles to our material world; and changed, too, very much,
in that we are now in the fifth year of a war, even more world-shattering
_ than the Napoleonic Wars through which McCulloch himself had lived.
A Still, I think, though perhaps not everyone would agree with me, that
the joys and sorrows and purposes of human life are not fundamentally
- changed, and at least that the duties of a “social state” are not less rig
4 int exposition, into
7 han they were. I shall venture then not into an exp '

¥ hich MeCullodh refused to enter, but into a_ few further illustrations.
, As we go on, let us remember Whateley’s saying: “Tt makes all the difference to the world whether we put Truth in the first place, or in the
ss c :

second place.” |

. On Hew Year’s night, 1801, Piazzi, Rector of the Academy of Pal
ermo, Sicily, of which city we have recently heard so much, looked out and
discovered a minor planet, or asteroid, to which he gave the name ss

. Ceres, the patron goddess of Sicily, the goddess of corn. A few ee

later, a young German, Gauss, who was twenty-four years old, publishe
what he called some arithmetical disquisitions. Meantime the asteroid
had been lost to view; but Gauss’ mathematical hints were studied by an
astronomer, named Olbers, and with this aid, on the following New Year’s
night, Ceres was again discovered. ;

, Meantime the philosopher Hegel, who did not know either of the discovery or of Gauss, wrote a philosophical work in which he attacked the
uselessness of looking for the orbits or the planets. Duke Ernest of Gotha
sent a copy of this philosophical word-to a self-taught astronomer, named
Zach, writing across it, “Monumentum insaniae saeculi decimi noni”.

- Some of you will remember how Gauss proceeded with his mathematics,

and how the astronomers used his mathematics to make further discov
-_ eries about the planets.

On August 30, 1943, the heads of the universities of Canada were
summoned to Ottawa, by the Government, to discuss whether the “useless
subjects” taught in high schools and universities, should be allowed to

~ eontinue for the duration of the war. In the proposal the whole field of
human thought was divided into science and non-science; and science was
further defined to mean only physics and chemistry. In the discussion, it
was specifically stated that genetics was useless for the winning of the
war; that biology and particularly botany was also useless; geology was
also placed in the same category of the useless. In this discussion nothing

. whatever was said about mathematics. I give you the illustration, and

pass on.

At Nuffield College, Oxford, on September 26 and 27, 1942, there was
a gathering to discuss not education but technical training, and the con- ference resulted in a manifesto of forty clauses which were published.
_ he gist of the finding was that training in technique would have to be
left to the industries themselves; that there was no common technical
training which would be of much service in the various modern indus- tries; and that the technique in any given industry was so rapidly changing that there could be no useful preliminary training for it.

-. What, then, it was asked, must be done in the technical schools themselves? It was agreed that what was chiefly needed for the people who

__-were to undergo training in technique in industries, and who might be
- eounted upon to change these techniques, was intelligence, adaptability,
and, above all, initiatives These ae of mind could best be secured,
& not by training of any,technical kind, but by education in non-technical
‘ ; Me in Ss. , ‘
_2 First of all, it was stated, there must be a general and intensive
study of mathematics; foreign languages were also inevitable if the tech
_ nician was to keep abreast of ee was going on in the rest of the world.

He must also have a good deal of history. Even the word, culture, was

not avoided.

__ Now, who were the signatories of these resolutions? It is rather
trikin; that they were ee = peetenoers, of a

cational institutions. I give you a partial list of those who signed: The

2 ind Coke Pidautrios of Great Britain; the London, Midland and

thern Railway; Imperial Chemicals Limited; Courtauld’s Limited (the

   
   
 
   
   
   
     
   
    
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
    
    
    

«

>

     
  
  
  
  

 

  
   
 
  

not the “whole duties of the social state”, but the usefulness for some
4 A ai ce tay a = u ed on page four pt :

hak gt a aye toy! ta
Las "a 7 = papal, ing

w e

   

 

ca; or
a f

= 1. Soa a f
eek ‘te tn
" D - - M4
1 , ae A | a ¢ 7.
; : id 7 .
. , : ie, oh 8 "
c aoe a .
' aa heen
; he oe ; * “
ry s ' “ 7
t .
. ; ;
. >

e Gazette

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 15, 1943

housie handed down decision
favor of the appellant in the first

 

textile industry), and so on. These are people who are considering

   
   

“

on wer ee
27%. 15 2 ees

—

 

aay e =

 

XS:

Above are exhibited rare specimens of that weird species known as “Frosh”.

 

 

At the left

is a miscellaneous group of freshmen and ettes (dis) gracing the Library steps, while at the
right is a bit of cheesecake which we are willing to bet will never be in any Wren’s “pin-up”

pictures.

MOOT COURT SESSION:

Judges Pan, Can Sheffman
At First Trial of Season

The Supreme Moot Court of Dalin

case in this year’s sittings, Thaarup
v. Hulton Press Limited, before Lord
Chief Justice Lawrence, and Lord
Justices Cohen and Vaughan, Wednesday afternoon at ‘the Law School.
High point of the trial was not the
extreme abilities of Claude Matthews, K.C., for the appellants or
Ted King, K.C., for the respondents,
but Abe Sheffman, Junior Counsel
for Matthews, who was convicted at
summary trial.

Sheffman, in carefree conversation
with Lawrence, L.C.J., the day before the sittings, had made reference
in jovial fashion, and in endearing
though terse and somewhat earthy
terms to Lawrence. He had also
become afoul at law with Lawrence
MacIvor. His punishment is yet to
come.

The main case was conducted with
a great deal of good natured foofaraw characteristic of the Moot
Court. Counsels flushed and blushed
to the tips of their ears as the
Justices probed them closely about
the legal points in question. The
usual coke fines were levied on
spineless first yearmen who lounged
in their chairs, and a _ generous
dosage of lemons to McColough and
Butler added to the zest of justice.

Vaughan, L.J., and Cohen, L.J.,
gave verdict for the respondents,
Lawrence, L.C.J., disagreeing. R. J.
McCleave was junior counsel for
King.

+

Govern Yourselves

Accordingly

The S.C.M. is planning to hold a
sing-song at 8.15 on Sunday evening, Oct. 18, at 204 Robie Street.
All students are cordially invited.

 

First Open House at Shirreff Hall
will be held tonight at 8 pm. Admission is 35c, and Frosh are not
required to wear regalia.

 

The Dalhousie Band is again
ready to swing into action, and ali
would-be tooters are requested to
see Hank Johnson, manager, and
sign up.

The Library is expected to be
open at nights, starting next week,
from 7 till 10.80 p.m.

Lecture Course For
Drama Enthusiasts

Beginning next Tuesday night,
and for five following weeks, Mrs.
Karl C. Clarke, B.L.I. (Emerson),
will deliver a series of six lectures
on Dramatic Interpretation. Sponsored by the Glee Club, the series
will stress the practical, rather than
the theoretical interpretation. It is
hoped that the series will lead (with
the possibility of more lectures after Christmas) into the Glee Club’s
annual productibn of a_ three-act
play.

Last year Mrs. Clarke directed the
highly-suecessful Glee Club production of Ivor Novello’s comedy,
“Fresh Fields’” and it is hoped her
many pupils and former pupils will
come to the seriés, in company with
any others who have not yet had
the opportunity to work under her
direction. Her first lecture, Mrs.
Clarke informed the Gazette interviewer, will be entitled ‘Personality on the Platform”. The time—
7.380 to 8.380, and the place, Room 3
of the Arts Building.

Sodales to Take
Part in Radio Forum

An invitation has been received by
the Sodales Debating Society to
send a representative to the Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League
conference at Antigonish for participation in a radio forum broadcast
from the St. F. X. Assembly Hall
on the question, “Should Canada
Have a System of State Hospitalization?” Also represented in the
Forum were representatives from
King’s College, Acadia University,
St. Dunstan’s College and Mount
Allisen University. The Dalhousie
represenative to the M. I. D. L.
Conference is Scott Gordon \ 94 will
answer “yes” to the propose. mestion. Radio Station CJFX at Antigonish is carrying the broadcast and
time has been allotted during which
the audience may question the
speakers.

The date for the conference and

broadeast has been set tentatively
for October 20.

 

W. V. S. Leaders a
Delta Gamma Meet

The first meeting of Delta Gamma

for the 1943-44 season was held at
Shirreff Hall on Thursday evening,
Oct. 7. Susan Morse, President was
in the chair.
_ The freshettes were welcomed by
the President into Delta Gamma,
followed by introductions to the representatives of the D.G.A.C., who
invited all freshettes to participate
in the sports this year, which include basketball, badminton, tennis
and ground hockey, as well as to the
social convenor and debating representative. |

The business dealt with was of
great importance, particularly the
forthcoming program of war work.
The girls, however, expressed themselves as very willing to do all that
they time for.

Miss MacKeen spoke to the girls
with a plea for all who could, to
kuit, especially spiral socks, for
which the Navy League has a great
demand, and which are needed in a
hurry. Wool has been obtained from
the Red Cross which caneb obtained
from Miss MacKeen at Shirreff Hall.
It is hoped this will be soon distributed and returned in some form or
other.

In addition to knitting, the First
Aid and Home Nursing course, begun last year, are to be given again
this year.

Delta Gamma was addressed by
Mrs. Ginouard, Mrs. ~lacNeil and
Mrs. Fortune of the Women’s Volunteer Service. Mrs. Ginouard gave

(Continued on Page Four) .

S. C. M. Maritime

Planning Conference

Six executive members of the
Students’ Christian Movement attended the Maritime Planning Conference at Mount Allison University
the weekend of October 8, as representatives of Dalhousie University.

 

Present also were students from
Acadia University and Prince of
Wales College of Prince Edward

Island.

Discussions were led by the Rev.
Gerald Hutchinson, National Secretary of the 8.C.M. of Canada, on the
policy the Maritime Movement
should follow in the coming college
year. Rev. Gerald Hutchinson has
held a number of executive positions
on the S.C.M. and was its representative for Canada at the conference
of Christian Youth at Amsterdam in
1939. He will make a visit to Dalhousie University on Oct 20 to 25

when he wishes to meet all students.

 

No. 2

Thursday

 

Fireworks are expected at the
Student Forum to be held next
Thursday noon at the Gym, when
the question of ratification of Ken
MacKinnon as President to succeed
Tom Patterson will be recommended
by the Students’ Council. A number
of the leading parliamentarians of
Forrest -and Studley have already
expressed themselves as being definitely against the move on constitutional grounds, and say they will
not allow a “railroading” without
argument.

No personalities are involved in
their arguments, say the Constitutionalists, who so far have advanced
no other candidate for the post.
“It’s the principle of the thing” is
the war-cry of the embryonic legal
leaders.

Students’ Council members point
out that by the constitution, Council
members can only be elected on the
first Tuesday in March, and therefore the appointment of a President
by the Council was the only remedy
open. The constitution also states
the nominees for President shall be
picked by the Council. But to this
latter condition is the added rule
that there shall be at least two
nominees for President Same conditions apply for First Vice-President, to which Bobby White was
tentatively hoiste by the Council.

Two solutions are being discussed
at press time. First, that an amendment be made to the Constitution
to cover the present emergency,
either calling a general election or
permitting the appointment of MacKinnin as President by ratification,

Secondly, the appointment of MacKinnin as Acting President, retaining his office as First Vice-President. This move would be constitutionally correct, since “in the absence of the President the First
Vice-President shall perform all duties pertaining to the office.”

Whatever happens, the Forum
next Thursday may well be one of

the hottest and heaviest engagements on the campus for many

years, and a large turnout is expected to see the fun.

Arts and Science

Dance Plans Laid

Plans for an Arts and Science
Dance to be held early in January
were discussed at a meeting of the
Society held Tuesday at noon in the
Arts Building. A dance committee
consisting of Ann Saunderson, John
MacLellan and Allan Blakeney, was
elected to make the necessary arrangements for the affair. Arts and
Science’s Society would once more
venture into the field of dramatics,
in which it won the Connolly Shield
last year.

At the meeting Joan Robertson
was elected Secretary for the class
of ’47. A financial statement for the
Society was presented, and showed
that the Society’s finances consisted
of the very modest sum of $10.15, with some receipts forthcoming.

Dalhousie veterans, recalling the
society’s early hectic days marvelled
at the degree of quiet and order that
prevailed at the well attended meeting. The sharp contrast with former
meetings, where biting words flew
thick and fast, and frantic pounding
of tables by former Prexies brought
no order, only served to convince
these veterans that this modern
generation must be getting soft.
“O for the days of yore, when men
and meetings were really meetings”
they moan languidly.

  
is) ?
ainm en y

Tere ae
in af ae ; tT,
, aa ihe ar, e
5 " <= = ‘
5 ne =
.
; f ee ora
"7 Ae a
hi . a o Lae +
cs a + . ai, we lat NG gl a sie lings, 48
| MN IN
Ped ts 0
: j
j .
; j

Oldest College Paper in America”

‘any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
t be assumed that they represent the opinion of

See oh ita ea oes i

GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44 |
>. POM emes inves ci) hl. Ae Shields |
RRA Cetuas Sinai eriny sess doh Bevin. Balry
Pee Were ca Pdievesslcnsides atm MacLaren
Pei eee tie rel iis. Boh MeCleave
5 SR Gi didsiss is. BU Pope
sree Regt er ee ee Me ale denis 6 IO Collins
p Harte bale aslivededinenceulfts dearey, EK. MacDonald
Pinca odie e dy Ge cts x seks wes’ Late: Smith
BPE Skit es Cav dbbae easee -. .00hn. Bibbetts
jl, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Eileen Phinney
nkin, Jack Quigley, Bob Kimball, Betty Atkins

iS
aes
ii ee

Th
1

i

eee Se ee eee

leaves the private conscience for the guide”
a ety —John Dryden, “The Hind and The Panther”—I: 478.

our-years’ accumulation of apt quotations in what
referred to as the “editorial mind” we plucked
2 bit from the keen-edged satirical pen of John Dryden,
erving and partaking in in the annual beating of brows
able courses whose times did not conflict, which came
classes of seven units of three departments, and
id not result in complete Grade XII Matriculation
instead of a degree in Arts at the end of four years.
he inevitable ten days’s wonder as lines formed on
for conferences with the Registrar and frantic rell around. |
rst frenetic fortnight of every college year is an outd visible sign of a bewilderment which has its birth in
al study of the University Calendar by an embryonic
. This mystification increases, rather than decreases
and senior years, when the undergraduate is faced
ind-stunning array of electives, and no yardstick by
neasure their suitability to himself. But it is only
ation the full result of the almost utter lack of sym1 understanding guidance in the pre-graduation
themselves felt.
and Distinction students in Arts and Science have
efined course of studies. A student taking Honors
ibje will receive a complete four year coverage of
‘tment, under the guidance of a professor who has
1 in such work for many years. But the great maArts students are not specialists; they are attempting
a broader grounding in the humanities, not to use them
fessional career, but as a basis for useful ard respon
tesa

rough four years they are handed a hodge-podge of un1 economics, history, psychology, botany, bio-chemistry,
ar classes on the principle of “20 units — 1 B. A.”

ent can do full credit to a subject forced upon him by

yencies of getting seven classes in three departments for
requisites must be found in the classes automatically

t to him as a freshman or freshie-soph.
e study of the humanities has been brilliantly, and literyught for by educated men of foresight across the Dominring the last five war years. Surely more weight should

ched to the choice of studies within the Liberal Arts at
versity than the convenience of a time-table.

are not suggesting this annual confusion be laid at the

A

f any individual in the University. Rather it is the ine result of a state of mind, a firm conviction among the
nies that shape our ends” that a Bachelor of Arts degree
1odern undergraduate is an end for which any means of
are satisfactory. This is not true, although often
tude of the students themselves, grown accustomed to

‘>
i

*

atisfactory courses, does little to encourage any other view
must be taken, before the rut is worn too deep, to

h some haven of disinterested advice where students
college may seek and receive intelligent, understanding
a them through their four years among the
ers of the world’s thought. Without some such direction,
» glorious aim of higher liberal education will be lost
e. ‘

Burbidge, head

——

*

Dean G. A. Burbidge

The whole doe industry will be
shocked to hear that Dean G. A.
of the Maritime
College of Pharmacy died on Tuesday night, September 28th. He was
73 years old. As published in the
Journal of September 15th it was
felt that the Dean was well on the
way to recovery from his recent illness and the druggists in the Maritimes were expecting him back at

his post-at the College.

About a month before Dean Burbidge -suffered a stroke, but was
making excellent progress toward
recovery to all appearances, being
able to leave his room and go to
other parts of the house. In the
week of his death he was taken to
the Halifax Infirmary to undergo
what was considered a slight operation. On the evening of the 28th
he suffered a second stroke, which
proved fatal. é

Dean Burbidge was born in Carbonear, Newfoundland, March 5th,
1871, son of the late D. Henry Burbidge and Leah P. (Joyce) Burbidge.
He received his education at the old
Halifax high school and Morris St.
school. He was a member of the
first Board of Directors of Waegwoltic Club and President from 1914
to 1917. He was a Master of St.
Andrew’s Lodge, A.F. and A.M., and
an elder of St. Andrew’s United
Church, as well as a Rotarian, and
a member of the Nova Scotia Institute of Science and the Nova
Scotia Historical Society.

He is survived by his wife, Minnie Frances, daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. G. W. T. Irving, and three
nephews, George H. Coffin, Halifax;
Sgt. Hector D. Coffin, U. S. Army,
Vancouver, Washington, and Lieut.
Donald B. Clark, H.C.A., overseas.

The death of Dean Burbidge removes one of the most outstanding
pharmacists in Canada. He was,
along with George Gibbard, instrumental in the forming of the Canadian Pharmaceutical Association in
1907 and was an active worker up
to the time of his death. He was
president of the Dominion Association in 1921 and became chairman
of the Council in 1923, a position he
held until 1931. The Dean was also
an honorary member of the A Ph.A.
—Canadian Pharmaceutical Journal.

Dalhousie University and the community at large have suffered a
great loss in the death of Dean G. A.
Burbidge of the Maritime College
of Pharmacy, affiliated with Dalhousie University.

Dean Burbidge was appointed
Secretary of the Board of Examiners
in 1917, and Dean of the Maritime
College of Pharmacy in 1925. He
buiked so largely in that institution:
his inspiration of all its activities
was so great, that it was a common
saying, “Dean Burbidge is the Maritime College of Pharmacy”. He
strove, all his life, to make pharmacy a scientific and honourable
profession. He made a profound impression also on many generations
of students in the Medical School.
The ability to teach is a hard thing
to define, and a hard thing to access. Dean Burbidge had character
of a very high order, One aspect of
it was thoroughness and accuracy.
Nothing short of the perfectly right
way of doing things satisfied him.
But along with this went other most
estimable qualities: great patience,
a ready understanding of a student’s
problems. He was also the most
genial ‘of men. His memory will
endure.

CARLETON STANLEY.

With the passing of Mr. Burbidge,
the Maritime College of Pharmacy
lost the leader who has always directed its activities; the Staff at
Dalhousie lost one of its best and
most faithful teachers; the students
lost a wise guide and counselor and
many of us lost a life-long friend.

HUGH P. BELL,
Professor of Biology.

It was a great privilege to have
known the late Dean Burbidge.
Modest capable men are rare in any
circle of society,—even in University
Faculties. Would that we had in
Canada more men capable of such
foresight, tenacity of purpose and
leadership as was shown by the late
Dean Burbidge in his development
of the standards of pharmacy in the
Dominion. Those of us who had the
opportunity of seeing him daily appreciated his kindliness of spirit, his
soundness of judgment and his devotion to his subject. On many ocecasions I have turned to him for
advice and I was never disappointed.
Although he seemed to feel that as
a pharmacist he was not a legitimate inhabitant of the Medical
Sciences Building this arose from his
characteristic modesty and appreciation of the fundamental roots of his
subject. The death of Dean Burbidge removes from us a man whose
contributions to the Maritime Provinces will perhaps only be realized to
their fullest extent in the future.

KE. GORDON LEVY.

ee Ha NSS n'gnueeeaesaenneeneenen
nsession

fleet is sighted. The British fleet
knew it had to fight to win against
a more powerful force. The wind
was right for a smoke screen, and
so these lighter ships dashed in and
out of the smoke screen, trying to
get in their lighter shells before

‘|they were destroyed by the heavier

nies bes Woe G Sly es t .
Book Review
‘Ship by C. voy if the island was to hold out.
- Reginald |If Malta could hold out, the Germans could not put so much force
__|into the offensive against Russia be_,|cause of Malta’s strategic value.

ae
j

The book opens with a quotation
from the Captain’s report—“and at
(11.30 hours the attacks ceased, al
ri-| though enemy aircraft were still ocn| casionally visible.” The convoy has
just experienced an Italian air raid

¢|and though the men are still alert

* ir Nt :
id had) for furt

Italian guns. The Artemis was hit
twice, and was on fire and had many
men kille dand wounded, but her
captain kept her fighting with all
her remaining guns. One shell despatched by her probably decided the
fate of the convoy.

In each chapter Mr. Forester takes
a few impersonal words from the
captain’s report and then describes
the battle“and the men and equipment of one particular part of the
ship when this part is important in
the fighting. In one chapter we are
on the bridge with the captain, and
in the next with the lookout in the
Crow’s-Nest—discovering what kind
of a man he is and seeing the battle
with his eyes, and then we are in
the boiler room, and at last with the
Gunnery Lieutenant and all the nien
who make it possible for the guns
to fire every ten seconds.

These character sketches are usually brief but they are enough to
make these men real to us. We
can grieve at the waste of life in
war—at the death of Presteign who
is an unknown poet of genius, and
Allanby who is destined one day to

g| be Admiral and of many others.

The men of: the crew of the

Artemis are courageous, and superb
ly confident of one another and of
their thorough training and knowledge of how to do their particular
tasks. Back of their training and
discipline and determination to win,
is the naval tradition of World War
I, Nelson, and the defeat of the
Spanish Armada.

C. S. Forester, the author of “The
Ship” is well known for his sea
tales of the Napoleonic Wars and
for his hero—Captain Horatio Hornblower. It is fitting that he should
present with restraint and clarity
and vividness this novel of a few
hours in the life of a ship in World
War II. The men and machines of
modern warfare are more comprehensible after you have read this
book.

P. RB:

Deadlines

Because of shorter working hours
at our printing shop, Gazette deadlines on-editorial and feature page
material have been advanced. All
literary contributions, editorials, and
letters to the editor must be left in
the Gazette office by 5 o’clock Monday afternoon, while features, cartoons, faculty columns, ete. must be
in by 3.30 p.m. Tuesday. Sports and

{news material, unless of unusual

importance, should be in by noon on
Thursday. Material can be left in
the Gazette office, or handed to any
editor.

~~

~,

Offers Engineering Courses in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING

‘Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President.

DALHOUSIANS... “

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

A Word of
Welcome

Birks extend to newcomers and returning
students a cordial welcome to bring their gift
problems to Birks.

BLAKELEY’S

OJ

WELCOME
TO |
DALHOUSIE

Come and visit—even if
you have no problem.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

C)

43 Spring Garden Road
. Barrington St., Halifax. N. 8.

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years.

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

rey

ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History,

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leadi 1
i A wee | g, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Facultie
Ss.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance
the courses, : and through

The Professional Faculties
in

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inelusive Fees: in the B.A.

course, av
in the B.Se. ’ erage about $160 a year,

course, about $190 a year.
Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

5 oo;
de Ae Tele band f
fog ets tir, f

Sea inden |e ee,
FE) A She, oat Ce ee tae

- eat ei} po ha A aha Ae
Os : i ~

oS

 
 
 
 
       
     

a oat ta ee a bates

- of contests will be run on this page
| - during the current year of the Ga_ zette, From time to time questions
will: be asked which all Dalhousians
vl _ are eligible to answer. Winning en. tries (individual or team) will have
their pictures published on this page
- from™time to time, with eulogies by
_ Gazette Post Laureate.
Background to the Problem —To
young vocalist Frank Sinatra, a kiss
is still a kiss and a sigh still a sigh.
America’s newest sensation is an ex: _ sports reporter who turned to singing two years ago, and after a brief
_ fling with Tommy Dorsey's orchestra has turned into a vocal corporaFi ‘tion and one of entertainment’s
_ brightest, biggest lights. Only: re3 cently Sinatra 75% became Sinatra
Fl

  
  

 
 

  

ing

we

the

100% when he bought. his rights
from ex-boss Dorsey.
Hee reportedly makes $750 a week
\ for singing four numbers over one
of radio’s greatest showman offering, the Hit Parade, on Saturday
ie: night. Standing before the micro"phone, Frank Sways like a chorus
a girl, and let the soulful expression
Bt _ of the song captivate him and his
audience. A tall youth of lean and
ml lank build, he wins the affection of
f his audience either by their mere
af ‘motherly instinct to feed his appara ‘ent starvation, or else by his tender
+s plucking of their heart-strings.

cei
NOTES

(From Hippocrate’s Diary)

the

the

 

   

 

‘this division applies only to the

He is the swoom sensation of the
nation, and the adolescent’s delight.
What he does to women is murder.
But he is a controversial item of

culture.

fans, and, too, those hard-boiled musie critics who regard him as a sacrilege offering on the altar of “correct” singing.

He may be a fad which the hysteria of wartime has produced. He
may be setting a new style for sing
copying him, most without success.
Whatever he is destined to become,

Gazette fans (from Rufus Rayne to

GIVE YOUR THEORY FOR
THE POPULALRITY OF FRANK
SINATRA.

Make your answers short if possible, but at any rate write them.
Put in sealed envelopes and leave
at Gazette office, or with a Gazette
member.

Editing of answers will only take
place on securing consent of the
writer by the editors. Enclose phone
number with entries.
may be used, but real names must
be submitted.

Let’s have them within two weeks
from date of issue.
will take place in the third issue of

answers will find publication within

 

 

 

 

“A littl enonsense now and then,

    
   
 
    
   
     
      
       
       
        
    
   
   
     
     
  
  
 
 
   
 

There are rabid Sinatra

We held a really enthusiastic
meeting of the Arts and Science Society Tuesday at noon. The newly
elected secretary is Jo Robertson.
We made plans for a dance to be
held immediately after Christmas,

And now.

which will endure. Many are k # &

What’s this about tea in rumpus
rooms? One phone call surely
brought about happy results, but,
being canny souls, we'll wait awhile
before making any rash predictions.
Right, Barry?

* * cd

That Glee Club executive dodge
surely brings amazing results. Barb
can’t really do all this. How about
Bio lab, surely some people in that
require individual attention!

place as the first question for

highest senior):

+ % %

This brings us to the question of
the week: How can Kay W. be out,
take any one of a half-dozen phone
calls, answer second floor phone
while talking on first, and still keep
everyone happy? A new candidate
for manpower control position!

Pseudonyms

Final judging
*K * ok

Till next week. “Above all, remember to keep happy, won’t you?”

Gazette from this one, but all

next two weeks.

 

For our several new professors,
faced for the first time by hordes
of freshmen, we find this joke very
appropriate:

CLIPPINGS
CAMPUS

By EUEGENE MERRY

Riding Along Together.
Cavalry Recruit: “Sergeant, pick
me out a nice gentle horse.”

imal for you. Never been ridden

ae Sergeant: “Have you never ridi Ly F, What could start the year out bet-| gan a horse before?”

All the medical students are|ter than this little rhyme from “The| Recruit: “No.”
a @ivided™in: three parts. Of course,| Georgian”: Sergeant: “Ah, here’s just the anPe

group: as a whole, and not to the
individual. But the division is very
> snifcant It is a good example of
the proper use of statistics, and
} , _ shows how wide the normal variation
v* ean: be; moreover, it shows the

  

This naturally accounts for the
belittling treatment which is being

A little horse play on the side, |pefore. You can both start toWas relished by the wisest men, gether.”
Who really lived before they i ae te
died.”
Ode On Ma.

Last year I was an Artsman,

CASINO

*

Starting
TUESDAY, OCT. 19

CANADA’S OWN
PICTURE!

“Corvette K-225”
*

Shows daily at 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9.

 

CAPITOL

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

“Above Suspicion”

JOAN CRAWKORD
FRED McMURRAY

*

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

So Proudly We Hail

VERONICA LAKE
CLAUDETTE COLBERT
PAULETTE GODDARD

 

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday
“SLEPY LAGOON”

      
   
 

   
   

Page Three

 
 

Glintimate Impses
by TRIPE

This is a series of articles which form a supplement to the
“Mentor’’, popular feature of the Gazette two years ago, in which
college life, in all its trivialities, was sketched. This series will deal
with “After University—What?”’

   

  

GETTING A JOB

Having placed our college student back into the society
from which he emerged for a brief frolic in the sunlight of intelligence, the next thing he will have to learn is to survive.
To many this is a painful thought. At college there was never
this element of surprise to ghost one’s dreams and colour one’s
hopes. Nevertheless the possibility of non-survival exists and
it must be effectively and swiftly dealt with, or the youthful
aspirant to society may find himself on one of its beneficial but
nonetheless charitable breadlines.

The usual approach of one uninitiated to the quirks of life,
would be to get a job for which one was suited, or to which
training was directed. However, one of the most useful aspects
of the complete college or university training, as distinguished
from the incomplete (or college I didn’t attend) training, is the
fact that one should never, except in the case of doctors, lawyers and engineers, attempt to study at college for the main
ambitions you might possibly have.

To illustrate, we have at the front-offices of this university
men and women who have spent all their educational lives mastering the intricacies which make Chaucerian English so hard
to pass. They never had an iota of Commerce in their training
or even in their makeup, and so, of course, as soon as they got
their degrees, were given places of esteem in the machinery
which makes a college student click to the tune of several hundreds of dollars for courses each year.

This is very reasonable, if one takes the above-herd interpretation of college education, which is, after all, a training of
the mind. If one can learn to do differential calculus, one
should be able to apply its principles to running a grocery store,
or selling shoe and boot laces for a living. Or, getting higher
on the scale of human activity, take running a railroad. And
so on. We do not pause for tiring repetition here.

As we have come this far, let us summarize. A business
mind is needed. The next qualification is to have in mind the
kind of a job you want. Since you won’t probably get it, the
best thing to do is not think too much about it, or you’re apt
to have a neurosis, which is painful and hard to heal.

Consult first the want-ads in your local newspaper. Selling
is the theme here, and you'll probably be able to pick up a dandy
canoe for a few dollars, and go out in the country, postponing
your search for a job when you are in better health (or any old
reason). Then, having brushed aside all petty thoughts, and
really bent on your job, you start. First, you look up an old
friend of your father’s, who is a government official, but alas!
—you: can’t get any better from him than a job as street
cleaner. You thought he had a lot of influence; well, there you
are. Life and its bitter little pills.

The proper thing to cultivate is an approach. Something
was already said about this in our first article about getting

ie “border lands of the pathological.
} | First) of all, one has the border| The prime
exam BF this. clasa 3 Raymond
a. Giberson. Despite the fine weather
7a Y during the Thanksgiving weekend,
- Giberson stayed continually in the
, _ Medical Library. It is obvious that
~ such action was a definite threat to
¢ “his sanity and bodily health. Now
there are other examples of the
same class. In Joseph Roach the
Y bi ‘same tendencies were manifest,
_ namely a disregard for natural and
a oe feminine beauty — unfortunately
y ee 1ese two forms of beauty must be
a i separated—and a turning away from
, Nature, the mother of science, to. 4 _ ward books, wherein only a poor rei flection is found. A last example
a of this group is furnished by R. A.
a ‘LL. Lindo, ‘‘the beautiful”.
Then one comes to the second
fi Peren. These may be called the
ag -compromisers. They stayed in Hali) fax, and worked some of the time,
5 Et. chiefly played. One’s attention
m ~—s.-«s iS Called to the fact that they cannot
i ‘control their own consciences. They
Hh “a _ ate not happy unless they can peroF themselves that they are
iin, and yet they know quite
well that occasionally they must
ae Eth mbend, and partake of plebian eni - joyments. Frank Stewart provides
es fone with an excellent example of
Pa this type. There is a possible source
hs | of error here, however; Mr. Stewart
pis known to be fond of C.W.A.C.’s

  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 

y In group three one has a large
a. _ number of students.
pee worries to the winds and went
i th: Acadia. Acadia has several no- table advantages. There is a place

>. called the Ridge whereat the beauty

nature. The psychological release
' offered by such a place is obvious.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

They threw /[

i -of women is combined with that of

received by freshettes and freshmen
all over Canada on campuses from
coast to coast. Already on Studley
freshmen and freshettes have been
decorated and redecorated on any
trivial charges that could be trumped up, but after all who cares? Isn’t
that what they are for? As a matter of fact, it’s pretty decent of the
busy Senior students to take such
an interest in.them. Why, even now,
usually reliable sources hint, they
are racking their superior brains
trying to figure out some gruesome
enjoyment for these inferior intellects.

Now I’m an Engineer.
Shall I flaunt a languid lily
Or sit loudly slurping beer?

I cannot slurp beer loudly,
My defect I sadly. own.
My voice is a souprano,
And not-a beeritone.

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“Last of the Mohicians”
ke Be *

*

Another thing common to all campuses is the organization of units
of the C.O.T.C., U.A.T.C. and U.N.
T.D. According to the Brunswickan,
enrolment is complete on their campus and this-goes for many other
ecampi across the Dominion.

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“Mexicali Rose ”
GENE AUTRY

 

 

 

 

into society, but there is an important aspect of it peculiar to
job-hunting. This is the Retreat, manifested by the person you
approach wath the object of making him your boss. “Sorry, he
can’t interview you today,” says the competent secretary while
the Big Man is cowering behind his desk. And so on. The only
way to do is read “How to Win Friends and Infiuence the
People” and be persistent.

Once you have got near him, the best way is to affect a
slight disdain, best expressed as if one had distemper of the
nostrils, or the heaves. This won’t work very much, unless he
considers himself inferior to you, in which case he will be glad
to hire you as a way of establishing superiority. This will happen in one out of 986 cases. To establish a positive position is
then, we have proved, trying.

There are many methods of approach, about 126 in all. We
have mentioned one of the unusual but gratifying. There are
several other good ones for the initiate to job-hunting. To best
show one’s appreciation of blessings which-could be “bestowed,
kneeling and kissing ef the prospective boss’ hand ean be used.
This is very effective, and he knows you have the natural posture for a charwoman, and will hire you if he is short of same.

Another way is to be honest, and say you’ll work hard, but
there are a lot of idlers around the office who have promised to
do the same, so it is best to see him with this approach while
they are not in sight and out of mind.

Another good way is to stroke him the right way by asking him to give you a short talk on the approach of a young
man to the business world. This is sometimes dull, and it is
essential not to fall asleep as though he were a professor. After
he is through, you having listened attentively, there are prospects he can give you a job as an intelligent conversationalist.

(Yes, sir, I agree with” being your forte in the monologus
before).

These lessons being erasped, it should not be too difficult
to secure your position. Our next lesson will deal with the fundamental problems of establishment after getting a position in

Judy Canova - Dennis Day

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday
“THE MORE THE MERRIER”
“SEVENTH VICTIM”

OXFORD

Monday, Tuesday & Wedneseday

“CRASH DIVE”
TYRONE POWER
ANNA BAXTER
DANA ANDREWS
Teechnicolor

Thursday, Friday and Saturday

“HEAVEN CAN WAIT”
DON AMECHE
GENE TIERNEY
Technicolor

 

society. If you prefer not to remain single and raise your children the same way, the third article in this series — “ 1ettting
Married’ — should appeal to you.

 

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

     
     

Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX 
    

HALIFAX Nova Scotia NOVA SCOTIA

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

These students realize the value of

  
 

a din, and Charlie Mariutosh. And for
_ the game reasons that these men
went to Acadia, Austin Creighton
went to Tatamagouche. The second

ce Thanksgiving followed so
ely on the latest Anatomy quiz.

scond-year Medicine sends to Ron
its punts for his speedy re
n appendectomy,
yay. yt it _
ahd Ps tab ot i a as
Soa and ET ratty ai yp hs eM i
se 4; 7 Aa He! he mei =, Lois
i ea +H . ASG
ae a ye Ee a1 rg A ors ota
aS eae SEP aL
wy Aer | Se Soe *
| se aay. Cia
WA Sy ud ne Ve

 

... the way to win a welcome wherever you go

Where you find democracy, you find the feeling of friendliness. It’s
made up of little things that mark a way of life; sports, fair play, movies,

and swing music. A phrase like Have a‘‘Coke” turns strangersinto friends,
the same in both hemispheres. Around the globe Coca-Cola stands for
the pause that refreshes—has become the high-sign of the good-hearted.

The Coca-Cola Compsny of Canada, Limited, Halifax

ee a ee

 

«7

ey ase

  
  

“Coke” = Coca-Cola

It’s natural for
popular names to
acquire friendly
abbreviations.
That's why you
hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke.”

659

 

Maritime Academy of Music, Ltd.

HARRY DEAN, A.R.C.O., R.C.M. (Leipzig), Director
98 HENRY STREET

Expert instruction from specialists from the lowest

grades to graduation from the Academy. Licentiate
Music Diploma and Bachelor of Music degree from
Dalhousie.

Telephone: 3-6632 Branches: Bedford, Dartmouth and Halifax

 
eS exes, Ker that is ebat they have to say.
ng, not by training in skills, or techniques, but

re Betecs ha the useful arts” — please note, once again, |
ed on the Dalhousie corner-stone is not “trained” in the
s. Is it worth while to ask how that may be? It looks

a8

Is it worth while to ask how thatmay be? It looks,
the intention were that not merely in the Arts Fac
‘in the Arts and Science Faculty, as we call it now, but
d Medicine and Theology, men were to be educated and
ed. Does it not mean, too, that one and the same man
and, at the same time, educated also?

e division between abstract principles and their applica
ny division?

And, if there is a division, should there be

4 a man really read literature in a vacuum, so to speak?
s reading only Nineteenth Century English prose, can he read
ing of Bentham and of law? Can he read Darwin and

g nothing of biology?
g a. of French literature or of Greek?

f course, that such galare made. But let us
pler about it.
e field of human entry to fix the term and
tee practical and what

ss. Just where does
y and practical mining

g¢ begin? Just where, in
hulk of the N Stinnnilic
ork Harbour, does theoties leave off and
tics take on? Just

ohiae of electricity, to

nore example, do you disry and begin to be prac
hi in the address to which
red, admits that “there
Ay sensible and
il, who have been educated

| g the eae of a
eee ” T will not quote
ed first Principal further
ead, but merely allude to
s saying: “Ef yer don’t
ition vee shore has to have

; ew: years after McCulin Pictou, Liebig was esin the little town of Gies; now generally admitted
first department of chemie world. And Liebig once
his activity in language

: “We first observe. We then

ze aS much as we can. Fin
y that we know a thing,
2 ee are able to give it

_ very much earlier period,
cience, as we know it today,
1 its infancy, men began by
what is a thing; what is the
¥ vhat is it made of? After
oo discussion of this kind, men

left that. question and said, “Let us

8 sking what a thing is, and enuire what is it like? It was then
nathematics was born.

t purpose, I have been tryput this discussion into the
1ework of Dalhousie as much as

can, leaving
what might be considered the
uthorities. But as a preface
own lecture when it was pub, McCulloch quoted from Pro“Wisdom is the principal
therefore get wisdom; and
} i: getting get understand
ie some of you—Cicero. In
ey which is called, “Tusculan
tations”, Cicero said that the
elevated geometry to the
pinnacle. They had said

d himself must everlastingly
ometer. “But,” said Cicero,
komans are a much more prac‘ople than the Greeks, they

| discarded and abandoned |

: roted themselves to the prac- Cicero Beaty meant _this

out learned references |°

Can he read Matthew Arnold
Can he read

as praise for the Romans and dispraise for the Greeks.

Now, one of the most curious
things I know in the whole history
of mankind is that Cicero, who had
obviously studied intensely a contemporary of his, Lucretius, who
was perhaps the greatest of all the
Romans, denied publicly twice, and
in the most emphatic manner, that
he had ever read any of the writings of Lucretius.

The theological censors worked
overtime on Lucretious and that,
please remember, before Christ was
born. His work survived in a single
manuscript, and began to be studied
about fifteen hundred years later.
This study had much to do with the
thinking of Gassendi and Francis
Bacon. But Bacon himself, as you
know, was a rather narrow, intolerant person as scientists go, and it
required the mathematical genius of
Newton, and later Legendre and LaPlace. before sciences began to be
seen in their true perspective.

Last year in the Dalhousie Review
high praise was given to a work
which had just appeared in a new
edition, a book by Darcy Wentworth
Thompson, called “Growth and
Form”. That book is a learned application of higher mathematics to
the whole study of biology. The review was written by a Dalhousie
professor, who called Thompson’s
book one of the great productions of
the age.

I leave you with the question, was
it the application of mere theory to
a useless study.

There is one more question to ask.

This college, this university, Dalhousie, has, in my opinion, for its
chief title to fame, the fact that in
1817 it wrote into its Charter absolute religious freedom. And yet, for
a long time after that, we had a
close connection with the Kirk. With
the death of McCulloch, in 1848, we
closed down for twenty years, and
we should never have reopened but
for the magnetic force of G. M.
Grant, the Presbyterian minister of
St. Matthew’s Church, Halifax, who
later became the Principal of
Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario.
I am old- fashioned, I know, in my
belief that all questions of life are
fundamentally ethical questions. May
I then, in conclusion, glance away
from our meeting, this morning, in
wartime Halifax, to one of the great
events ni European history. In 1516,
a Dutchman, Erasmus, published his
text of the Greek New Testament.
In that day his preface had to be
in Latin. So he wrote:

“Felix ills quam hisce in litteris
meditantem. Mors occupat; quandoquidem abeunt studia in mores.”

Abeunt studia ni mores—an: irreverent undergraduate might translate that: “They play hookey to pick
blackberries.” It does look very like
that. What it really means is this:
“Whatever really interests a man,
what a man studies, becomes his
character.”

I wish each one of you good
morning and good fortune.

CARLETON STANLEY.

Tennis Tournament

Gets Under Way

Tournament play for the Dalhousie
Tennis Cup has been getting under
way during the past week, with 23
men and 16 women entered, and several elementary matches already
played off.

Phil Cole, one of Eastern Canada’s junior tennis stars of a few
years back, polished off K. Wilson
to the tune of 6-0, 6-3, while D. Currie nosed out P. Duff, 8-6, 6-1. In
the second division, S. Smith beat
R. Samuel, 8-6, 6-4.

In the girls’ division, M. MacPherson took her match with P.
Rankallop 6-2, 6-1. Renee Garrett
bowed to A. Saunderson’s 6-1, 6-0

|| vietory, and Pat Hollis took a close

— ee “eo! a :
re eS oe enor
apie ds

ae win over S, Lewis 6-1, 6-2,

?
¢

The Halifax City Rugby League
opened Thanksgiving Day at the
Navy League Recreation Centre
with Acadia gaining a well-earned
5—0 win over Army.

The game was played under a
modified version of the English Rugby League rules and the result was
not altogether a success. The referee and the players seemed at times
a bit confused and the bewildered
fans hardly knew what kind of a
game they were watching.

* 2 *

Well, Dalhousie supporters will
their favorite team in action this
afternoon. For the past two weeks
the boys have been practising
daily in an effort to get in top shape
for their opening encounter with
Army. The game, of course, will be
played under the new rules. League
officials decided on the change in
order to speed up the game and
limit the number of scrums.

The main changes are that 12 men
will be used instead of the customary 14. A try and convert will remain the same, counting three and
two points respectively. Penalty
kicks and ‘field goals, however, will
undergo a change and a team now
credited either will be given two
points for their effort. 
Personally I think the change in
rules will help rather than hinder
Dal. It should be easier, with only
a limited number of good players to
pick from, to field a strong team of
thirteen men without weakening the
Intermediates by having to pull a
couple of young fellows into senior
company when they would benefit by
another year in the smaller league.

ae eR Ae

After the boys settle down, and
the new rules become second nature,
so to speak, football lovers should
be in for a treat. Everyone knows
what a thrill it is to see a player
pick his way out of the crowd and

W. V. S. LEADERS—
(Continued from Page One)

an interesting account of the importance and need of volunteer
workers, both in peace and war
times. The girls were asked to register for canteen work, library work
and as assistants at the Blood Donor’s Clinic. At the close of this discussion a great number of girls registered.

Election of class representatives
for this year was held — Florence
MacDairmaid for Senior class. Joan
Vaughan was elected for the Junior
class, and Ruth David for the Souhomore.

Other business attended to was
that of Open House to be held at
Shirreff Hall this coming Saturday
night. A large attendance is anticipated to make this first D.G. social
event of the year a success.

DELINES

By BILL POPE

go running doyvn the field with an
open space ahead, opponents trailing
behind in a futile effort to stop the
“runaway” athlete. Yes, but how
often does that happey, you ask?
The ball is either being kicked or
dribbled down the field, you say, or
there is such an agglomeration of
arms and legs with bodies twisting
and squirming in all directions that
the spectators’ views of the ball is
purely imaginary. With onyy 13
men in the mix-up this year, broken
field running should happen with
some sort of regularity.
% * at

Also, the games this year will not
be held up, due to injuries. Too often it happens that a player is hurt
and the game is stopped, for five
minutes or so, until the winded or
injured athlete can go back once
again into the game. This year two
replacements have been allowed, and
on this score the game should be
speeded up considerably.

o£ *

Perhaps some red-blooded souls
will suggest that football is softening up, that the game is not what
it used to be. For the old days,
some will say, no replacements were
needed. Those were the days of the
iron, sixty-minute men. Well, let me
tell you the game is still plenty
tough! Give and take. Thats’ football. And this year, with the speeding up of the game, the thrill-aminute fans should get just what
they are looking for.

There is nothing as good for the
morale of a team as to have solid
backing. A cheer, a song, a well
will give any team new fight. When
a team is behind there is nothing
like knowing that they have the
“moral support” of the people on
the stands. So let’s all start the
new season right and be out in the
bleachers cheering when the Tigers
take the field this afternoon.

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

Four Experienced Barbers

Jerry Naugler’s
Orchestra

O

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

MAPLE LEAF DAIRY

A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.
Phone 4-2357

MILK += CREAM - BLEND —- BUTTERMILK

Say

Schwark
and he su i

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be

Sure”.

We urge it for your protection that you may

be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking

Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

“To be or not to be, that is the
question.” ‘

Football practices have continued
for the past week, but up to the
time of this writing, still no sign of
those elusive representatives of the
Forrest campus, known as the first
and second year Meds. After all,
one cannot get in condition by appearing three or four days, and then
disappearing for as many more.
Atid this is only regarding the individual players; for fifteen, not
thirteen men under new league
rules, no matter how good singly,
cannot be simply deposited on the
playing field, and be expected to put
up a good showing against welltrained opposition, of which there
is more than enough this year.

A. football team must learn to
work together, as a unit, yhich can
only be achieved by what these boys
lack—practice.

There has been a good turnout of
oecupants of Studley campus, but
the majority of these, have no illusions about it, will only make the
Intermediate team.

The chief objection of the absentees is that their morning classes
are not over until one p.m. and the
afternoon begins at two-thirty p.m.
At present, practice is from onethirty to two. Since all can be on
the field by one-fifteen, it has been
suggested, practice then, ending at
about one forty-five. This would be
just as long a workout and much
more convenient, it has been pointed
out.

* * *

The Senior team for today’s
game is expected to be made up of
a choice from, Maclvor, Anderson,
Jardaine, Allen, Marshall, McDonald, McCollough, Epstein, forwards;
two from Hart, Carten, Barry,
halves; four from MacLennan, Curry, Knight, Farquhar, Giberson,
three-quarters; Henderson, fullback.

On paper Dalhousie has a potentially strong team, but football
games are played on the field. To
beat Acadia is the goal of all Dal
faculties.

Mt. A., UN.B., St. F. xX. postgrads, it is hoped, will all turn out

ACADIA

Practice Dificullies Seen

As Tigers-Army Clash Today

to help this year in really giving
them the “axe”.

Bs a *

The Intermediate team will not be
playing today.

One Dal sports enthusiast said:
“Let’s see the stands filled with Dal
supporters, who are prepared to
bolster the team with all the cheers
and yells they know (for heaven’s
sake, know some).

Here’s hoping today we can sing.
This is Dalhousie’s day!

A pep Rally was held at the
Students’ Council Dance last night,
where Tigers fans practiced up. the
old Dal songs and yells in anticipation of the big opening game this
afternoon.

Quality Shoes
For Fall

Compliments of

Wallace Bros.

Limited

415 BARRINGTON
Halifax, N. S.

ST.

Follow the rest of the boys
for your Footwear to

SHANE’S SHOE STORE
397 BARRINGTON ST.  3-9144

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone 3-6881

STORES

*

GROCERIES — FRUITS
MEATS, ETC.

*

iS MES

“s

STUDENTS...

_HALIF: AX, NOVA SCOTIA

See Roy at the Dal Gym Store for a complete line of

College Supplies, and Refreshments—hot or cold.

The Common Room of the Campus.

Compliments of

ARCHIBALD COAL CO., LIMITED

IMPORTERS AND DISTRIBUTORS OF
COAL AND COKE

*

297 BARRINGTON STREET

HALIFAX, CANADA

 
