     

lg nn celia. ‘ a= a " % ‘ ie yl mi \ 4 :
: L - , 5 Pit a ; : Ai F at ry ¥ ’ . h a L
fc : A aay, Pau , a rae, A ae ae a re = Be ina” % _ - s , , ~*~
: - Ro Lal op =| a i o ew Lf ‘ y
/ lage + i r

Mt ae | :
i ee ar Fi acta A i A ‘ se ‘ \
; - et a ; P Lr ee ey " ¢ r .
Eve ere ; <3 “ : mR ee t i. ae . a ge Uh i , : - x ‘7
* Ta os ts ies i ae 7 a ied ‘, it" - a : 7 ) 4 t  * P ¢ \ . ; t wea” o
é oir oak", Pe ’ ; B nee:

' a i ree J <a eo)
}

Saihousic Noa cae

THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA

     
    
     
      
       
    
       
           
     
    
     
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

© WoL LXXvi me | HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 12, 1943 No. 6

NEW DALHOUSIE SOCIETY OUT FOR BLOOD

Sneak Thief L earn
roseer sae ~ \Blood Donor Society Seeking Student

Detectives prowled through the Co-operation in Newly Formed Service

 

 

  
    
     
   
         
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         
     
   
   
   
     
  

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
  

  

International
Student Day
November 17

November 17th marks an anniversary. On that day the Germans closed Czech universities

CAMPUS
CLIPPINGS

By EUGENE MERRY dimly-lit stony corridors of the
Science Building in search of a ; * * *
sneak thief who decided to make the

ladies’ room his hunting ground. by C. B. WELD, M.A., M.D.
Alarmed by the series of petty thefts Professor of Physiology

 

  

4y _ As the river said when the fat
lady fell off the deck—well, I’ll be

damned! and slaughtered a number of :
which have occurred lately, Univer- : ; ; ; : y
| * * + Czech students. It seems pretty || sity authorities have called in the With the formation of the Dalhousie Blood Donor Club this question of donating blood
" I have always admired Bobby|| far away from us, whose thoughts || police in an attempt to quench the| has become one requiring a decision on the part of each and every one of us. The Canadian

are bound up in the Dal-Acadia
game, doesn’t it?

Over six million students are
in prison camps and internment
camps. They face, not only bodily
starvation, but starvation of the
mind. Such isolation from the
outside world will cause stagnation. A life in captivity is a
meaningless one. Some of these
men were: our fellow students.
Remember Dick Slipp from
King’s? Remember Walter Murphy? They’re living behind barbed wire in Europe now.

These students are in desperate
need. They need our help. And
through the International Student
Service we have the opportunity
of aiding them.

‘WHAT IS I.S.S.?

International Student Service
is a world-wide organization for
the purpose of relieving suffering
and creating. understanding
among students. Since the advent
of war its work has been chiefly
one of relief, that is, raising
money in those universities which
still have free universities, in order to provide books, food and
clothing, medical supplies and recreational equipment for the
moral and intellectual preservation of students in war prisons,
internment and refugee camps
as well as for students who are
attempting to carry on in occupied and battle-ground countries.

Dalhousie will join with other
universities across Canada in a
drive for International Student
Service on November 17th. A
march of dimes will be held on
both Forrest and Studley campuses, and other methods of raising money.

In the universities of Europe
and China there are thousands of
students who without our aid will
starve physically as well as mentally. Military victory will be
useless if the youth of the world

=) Burns’ poem, “To a Louse”, but how
in the world, I have always wondered, did he make the little beastie sit
still and listen to it.
a + * *
“Sorry, madam, but licenses are
—* issued only when your form is filled
out properly.”
. “Why, I like your nerve, sir! We
| ~~ @an get married no matter what we
* look like.”—Jouznal.

unusual outbreak of crime. Red Cross Society through the Nova Scotia blood donor service and the Halifax clinie is willMost of the alleged thefts have| jing to set aside one or more of its clinic periods for the Dalhousie group. Acadia and St. F. X.
taken place in the Seience Building) .tydents have already held special clinics and arep lanning more. Mount A. students have

while the students were attendin " a gels » Was es ;
Bnelish 2 clansas.. The. ladies’ cee given to the Sackville clinic and Dal students as individuals have given to the Halifax clinic,

was particularly favored by the| but as yet Dalhousie has not supported the blood donor service as an organized group.
in ee nOwMMRcCGSr AT te es of) es Cl) a cn ee The need is great. The navy, army
with several co-eds reporting the and air force have all asked for more
theft of various sums of small and more blood serum. It has been
change. used by our forces in Canada, NewCity detectives made the ~terse |foundland, England, Africa, Sicily,
comment, “obviously the work of Italy and other countries. Medical
juveniles,” but did not elaborate personnél is enthusiastic about it as
upon the mysterious basis for their a life saving measure and there
momentous conclusion. To date the seems no doubt that it has saved
sleuth still remains at large, but no hundreds or thousands of Canadian
further thefts have been reported, lives. With the present and expected
and police remain hot on the trail. increase in activity of our forces on
the sea, on land and in the air the
need for blood serum becomes progressively greater and the Red Cross
reports that all quota are lifted, the
sky is the limit. They cannot get
too much, they cannot get enough.
Here in Halifax as in the country
as a whole, civilians have responded
in thousands and a great many service men and women have also given
donations of blood. During the past
two years about twelve thousand
donations have been given in Halifax but more are needed. Just at
this time there is a shortage of
donors and the Red Cross is about to
organize a major drive for new
donors. Dalhousie students have an
opportunity of contributing to this
effort and to show the rest of Halifax that they support the project not
only with words but by donations.
The process is a very simple one.
Healthy men and women between
the ages of 18 and 60 are welcomed.
Each donor is typed, every specimen
of blood is Kahn tested and all collected blood is _ bacteriologically
tested. The blood of each woman
donor is examined before the donation to make sure there is no
anaemia; this is not necessary in the
case of men. No donation is taken
from anyone if the Red Cross medical staff feel that there is any possibility of harm accruing to that

    

 
 

Se 3

Customer: “Hey, waiter, there’s a
, * fly in my soup.”
' Waiter: “Ah, M’sieur ees mistake:
zat in ze soup is not a fly; it ees a
vitamin bee.” ,

—New York University Medley.

*x* * *

Co-eds Denied Army Company
_ McGill Daily — (C. U. P.) — The
Women’s Student Senate on the
Syracuse campus has passed a list
of regulations to clarify the relations between co-eds and military
students.

The rules limit the associations
between these two groups of students at least on the campus. No

_ Syracuse co-ed may talk with a mili
_- tary student stationed on the cam++ pus from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. from Mon
i” day to Friday except in common

eases of courtesy. All women’s living

quarters will be out of bounds to
the military students from Monday
until Friday.

[LS During the week-end these same
- rules apply except when men are
r called on for special duties. Another

exception is in the case where open
aa house has been registered and an
i nounced,
| Pe * * #

a Did you know about the little moron

who:
—Went to a florist shop to buy a

a defense plant.

—Took out his teeth so he could
have some gum to chew on.

_ —Looked through a screen door to

strain his eye.

—Thought a mushroom was a place

 

—

     
     
   
   
           
     
         
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

Joint Meeting
Poorly Attended

At 12 noon on Thursday the Chem
Theatre was inhabited by an infinitesimal smattering of the student
body. But nothing better could be
expected of the confusion and profusion of the signs the bulletin
boards exhibit.

An Arts and Science posted had
called for a meeting in Room 38. At
the last minute a postage stamp
headed D.G.A.C. announced a combined meeting in the Chem Theatre
of Arts and Science, Commerce and
Delta Gamma for a discussion on
the Blood Donor Clinic.

The many absentees missed an interesting lecture by Dr. C. B. Weld
of the medical faculty. Dr. Weld
stressed that while Mount Allison
and other universities have already
given blood donations through their
local clinics, Dalhousie had not. No
ill effects are suffered, he made it
clear, although the occasional donor
feels dizzy. This symptom shouldn’t
worry most Dal students, he added.

 

  
 

. ™,

  
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  

 

 

Art Titus, who with Charlie O’Connell, was the first Dalhousian

ARTS AND SCIENCE MEETING to volunteer as a blood donor in the recently established Student Blood

i to neck in. is embittered, disillusioned, phy- : eas ere aoe Rulicitual’- A lneal arbiter
, : fe The lone scheduled Arts and Sci- Donor Society, is pictured above at the Dalhousie Health Clinic. At individual. A local anaesthetic is in
. —Drank a bottle of iodine so he/|| sically and mentally inert. ehice Se g¢ followed immediately. right is Dr. C. B. Weld, Director of the Blood Donor Service, author | jected into the arm so that the
# could ee eet ae tacts y0OF | | seadente The chief item of business was the silences iene shea (Continued on page two)

We are students. This is our
opportunity to help our fellow

—Was glad that his name was
George because that’s what everybody called him.

nomination of candidates for the
forthcoming Arts and Science elec
tion. The election is necessitated by Flustered Femmes

Thus, in due time, the girls went | | SO good that certain boys stowed
calmly to meet their guests, little | away remembrances lest they should

 

aes Se the vacancy on Students’ Council
; ; ; | betraying the fluster and confusion|be hungry after the party ended)
. . , = * e )
Varsity Girls Take Red Cross (: ongr atu | ations bee Pee a tae Flock . ormal that had been their environment for|a sing-song evolved during which
Courses eign SS cca yl 1 ll ih oem the previous two or three hours—|old favorites such as the one con
nominated were Joyce Nickerson and Thursday, Nov. 4th, excitement| perhaps days. cerning the parson in the cellar were
Jack Quigley. was running high among the girls Dancing was in the dining room| again featured. The singing stopped

The meeting also approved the ap-| at Shirreff Hall, for this was the|to the orchestra of Jerry Naugler.| when the orchestra resumed playing.
pointment of Art Hartling as Arts night of their Formal, the event of | Because of war conditions, the girls| Colored paper streamers were passand: Science representative to the|the social season. Dresses had been|were forced to cut their decorating |ed around and many expressed exD.A.A.C, brought out of storage, examined,|to a minimum. Special bouquets are|uberance of spirits by “driving it.”
a nr | Cleaned and pressed, and were ready | here presented to Joan McInnes, who| But then it ended—to live again
Church, Armdale, Rev. J. D.. Archi-|to don. Slippers, accessories, etc.,| painted the crests of Dalhousie and|in the lull sessions immediately folbald officiating. The reception will had been located. Nail polish was|of Shirreff Hall in gold and black.|lowing. To put it tritely, “A good
be at Pine Hill. applied with the greatest of care. After refreshments (which were} time was had by all.”

Toronto—(C.U.P.)—Girls. enrolled Flight-Sergeant Roy Cochrane,
in the Canadian Red Cross bed . R.C.A.F., who for some months has
University oz Toronto deta ons, been attached to the Dalhousiehaving completed one year’s basic Kings U.A.T.C. detachment, is to
vy training, now are specializing in be congratulated on his forthcoming
a special coer bby marriage to Miss Margaret Baillie,
ee In the t SREpOreUiot section a secretary to Principal Dr. Kerr of
23 students driving ambulance and Pine Hill Divinity Hall.

blood donor trucks one afterhoon a| «pyiont” will forfeit his freedom
week, also students are taking part on November 20 at Bethany United

in many other important duties.
———

HITEWASH THE AXEMEN

 

 
 
  

Beh Founded 1869 “The Oldest College Paper in America”

ews expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
thor; it cannot be Seaakied that they represent the opinion of

GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44

ee Eve eM twas su ha Ch bye &e'9 ....Ted Shields
Pas Sib ake aeiesie stat wales sea walaiel wore Kevin Barry

SW vette tie dex sue Re Ue Rnd: ober aa ie war, w od Jim MacLaren

alt gibi okt wes a sien cat y Bob McCleave, Eileen Phinney

por Rat arn (gs Lldhatp sp a5) 6 41506 0 0,4 4 nis BUMEN: stemenialsg°n 5's Bill’ Pope
‘Lit Bey OE ana eae Peat EAL? facteurs lade. Lou Collins
-Photographers....... See ae oo ..e.K. Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
. sof tiditer Parone ee aa UU RY ane way be tee Laurie Smith
U.P. and "Exchange, ae Ried ok a Patera John Hibbetts

porters: Jim Campbeil, Bill Lawvenee, Boris Funt, Eileen Phinney
Bt Stee ep Peter Donkin, Jack Quigley, Bob Kimball, Betty Atkins
Marg Morrison

   
 
  

“WHAT YOU DON’T NEED...

coprokably the most important step taken by the Students’
oe Youncil at its meetin
a: DP ét a Dalhousie Blood

Best Pie

me ociety for the duration of the war.

|. for many years.

| ae Dalhousie, ranking high among Maritime, and ‘indeed

| Dominion universities in scholastic achievements, professional
ae) training, and many other college aspects, has lagged sadly in

_ its war services. The establishment of a blood donor society

ee asa university effort, will enable the college by the sea to again
hold up her head among the Maritime institutions in this re
he as _ Spect as in all others.

| There is, of course, one necessary qualification to the
ae ‘success of the Blood Donor Society. The Council has broken
_ through the wall of tradition to establish this new organization ;
lee now the students must support it. There is no need to reiterate
ie. a the importance of blood plasma on today’s battlefields. Almost
ae miraculous tales of lives saved by transfusions of donated blood,
oa ba boi at the ade front line, have filtered back from Libya,
ess,

ae
rat

is eatin grows ever more fierce on the road to Victory, the call
r _ for more and more blood plasma will go forth. It is unlikely
ae _ there is a student on all Dalhousie’s enrolment who does not

f recognize the urgent necessity for blood on the battlefront, yet
. _ the gelationous lethargy lying like a blanket over the university
__- may well result in a host of good intentions to “go down to the

- Clinic tomorrow”’—and very few pints of blood.

eae A competent and live-wire committee has been appointed
| for the Blood Donor Society by the Council. They will strive
be _ their utmost to make the Society a success, but they must have
:: the support of every member of every faculty of the University.
_ Many Dalhousie societies have sprung up ’mid a blinding flash
r of enthusiasm—-and as quickly withered away. This must not
_ happen now; men’s lives depend on blood donations. It is a
bist _ small thing to ask, one pint of blood; as Dr. Weld points out
in another article in this edition, the inconvenience is slight,
"the danger to the donor, non-existent.

University students are a privileged class in wartime, men
on are dying for the right of higher education. Surely the least
a every student can do, to repay this trust in the future, is to help
bait zive our fighting men a chance at that future by giving blood.
-hour’s inconvenience here in Halifax may save the life of a
y Fetes Cenation on the road to Berlin; can any objective be
: more worthy, can anything rank above saving the life of one
_ fighting man? Dalhousie must say “No” in the most emphatic
e. Sandia joining the Blood Donor Society now!

hy
oe

i
s a
Be ,

  
    
     
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

ie
oP:
as

 

is no shame or stigma involved in
this reaction which indeed seems as
apt to occur in the huskiest of men
as in any other group of people.
After lying down for a short time
the individual completely recover
equilibrium and color and can go on
with the days work as though
nothing unusual had taken place.

The effort is small, the discomfort
is trivial, the need is great. Here
is an opportunity to do a real service and to send a part of yourself
overseas. Take the opportunity.
Join the Dalhousie Blood Donor Club
and do it now.

: ‘Blood Donor Society—

Continued from page 1

ae if onan whatéver. Coffee and
ote its are then served and there
- are no after effects. Many people
are hesitant to give blood because
ak the fear of fainting after the
‘blood is taken. This fear is much
“exaggerated. Very few people pass
out after a blood donation. it is

‘cor me pale, feel a bit dizzy and are
ea to lie down for a time but
Bi very rarely do they pass out. There

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

Matias

GRAHAM

LL
a
te rt

Mi

Re Eee yy i
iy on

 
   
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
 

two Sundays ago was the establishment
onor Society, to rank as a regular student
Long overdue, the formation of an organized blood donors’ service on the Dalhousie
campus reflects much credit on a wide-awake Council disturbing the dust of lethargy which has lain over the Campus Solons

The Pocket Book of Cartoons—$0.39

We all read the “funnies”. Some
of us read little else. It is to be
supposed that some professors are
aware that the “funnies” exist. We
have heard with our own ears, one
of the most famous courses on the
campus broadened by references to
“Daisy Mae”, “Lil’ Abner”, “Dagwood”, “Blondie”, et cetera.

Pocket Books Inc. have, in the
past few years, put on the market a
large number of little books which
have become justifiably popular with
the reading public. For those who
like cartoons Pocket Books has recently distributed The Pocket Book
of Cartoons, a collection of 101 of
the cream of American cartoons.

Canada in other days, could boast
of such excellent cartoonists as
Henri Julien. Today there few cartoonists of note in Canada, but a
breath of the old tradition remains.
We are also all familiar with the
genius of the New Zealand born
cartoonist Low, and the unsurpassed
excellence of his political cartoons.
Most of us are familiar with
PUNCH, and the cartooning genius
of Sir Bernard Partridge. We are
gradually getting away from the
British tradition in cartooning, and
are identifying ourselves more and
more with the American tradition of
pencil humour. We recognize readily the names Peter Arno, Bo Brown,
James Thurber, Ben Roth, Henry
Boltinoff, and others. We can enjoy
ourselves with the pen and pencil
work of these excellent cartoonists

: © Fs rf + ”
i ? g i iat LS ee) ‘TTT ‘be Z i, tae Oe ee .
Gy Ps,5 4 > Mot eet) (ae. +t Ae er Ll! eee .
rey S KY Abe Near per ai Y yes <os :
of : “ ae, il a ‘ Py jhe
. me "=" 4 re ou be) J
a] Es? :

because we have as part of our
tradition, the virility, strength, good
sense, and down-to-earth quality,
from which these cartoonists draw
their strength, and which appear in
their cartoons as an earthiness mixed with sophistication.

Description, especially poor description, of good cartoons tends to
spoil them for others. We shall
therefore refrain from spoiling this
excellent book. In this little Pocket
Book one meets the masters of the
American cartoon; men and women
who have brightened the pages of
such outstanding American magazines as The New Yorker, Collier’s,
PM, and The Saturday Evening Post.

It has been edited by a well known]

figure in American publishing circles
Bennett A. Cerf.

Mr. Cerf in his introduction, states
three underlying principles for the
volume.
to make people laugh. (2) To mix
sophistication with a rowdier quality. (8) Drawings contained are
those of top artists. Cerf also gives
us a glimpse into his editing work,
and also into the cartooning work
itself. At the end of the book is
slight sketch of Mr. Cerf and of his
revitalizing of certain American
publishing firms.

For those who enjoy cartoons this
little book will prove most enjoyable
and more than worth its price. It
would prove a most acceptable gift
for a friend in the services. A really
worthwhile acquisition!

 

AND IN THE MORNING WILL THERE BE LIGHT?

A half-faced moon grows in the greying eastern sky,
The crimson sun adown the West has crept to bed,

Chatt’ring sparrows hold late
A chill wind shrills its tale of

caucus in the leafless trees,
the winter to be.

The years have fled like leaves before the whispering wind
Since brave men fought and bled along the road to Mons.

The same moon saw them die
As silvered o’er the man-mad

in agony without a Cross
e tree on Calvary,

The same wind spoke to them that. whispers now so chill.
The Torch they dying, flung, burns with a bright flame, again,
As men fight and die on the many roads to Rome.

We swore, aeons ago it seems,

A new swearing time is night

“They died not in vain’’.
Shall we swear once more

And give the crown these men wore, stained with their blood,
Into the keeping of their guiltless, beloved sons?

 

AUNT SUSIE’S REMEDY

Dear Aunt Susie:

We are D.G.’s (Dal girls to you),
and not a bad looking lot if I do
say so, and some people have. We
went to the Frosh Show last Friday
night, and liked it very much. Yes,
we knew there was a dance afterwards, and seeing there was a surplus of manly Dalhousians, we decided to throw away our girlish
shyness and any qualms we had over
being stagesses, and stay. After all
wash't it our right? We had our
Students’ Council tickets all bought
and paid for. We went inside the
Gym, sat down on the chairs, right
in plain sight — and waited, — and
waited. The music made our toes
tingle—it was super!—and there we
were, still waiting. We couldn’t
stand the stares from the floor any
longer, so gathering the shattered
remnants of our dignity around us,
we quietly made our way to the
hall, there to stand and wait some
more. In the meantime, there were
hundreds (well at least fifty) men
—°?—holding up the walls! They
must have seen us! What was the
matter? We all could dance, and
very well too!—and we didn’t look
like something that had just come
out of Roy’s coffeerpot! We stood
around smiling sweetly until we
could no longer hold back the tears.

‘| Even you, Aunt Susie, would have

been mortified! After exactly one
hour and thirty minutes of giving
those — a chance, we “folded our
tents, and silently stole away”.
What we want to know, Aunt Susie,
is why won’t the Dal boys dance
with the girls of their own college?
A summing up of the hoofers led us
to believe that the majority of the
boys who had brought girls, had
chosen them from the bright lights
outside the campus. Why? Don’t
they have any use for co-eds? Or
do they think it dangerous to take
one out once for fear she might expect to go to another brawl. When
they drag along a “friend” from the
Great Outside, do they feel they can
drop her and pick another daisy the

“next time ?

:
t

Please, Aunt Susie, think our

problem over and let us know what
we can do. We don’t want to form
an S. 8. 8. (Society for Solitary
Sophs) for the balance of the year.

Five Forgotten Frailes.

 

Dear Forgotten Frailes:

Yours is a problem that cannot be
solved in a day. My heart goes out
to you poor young creatures, despair
in your eyes, where gaiety should
reign, and a big’ Why in your heads
that should be nodding ecstatically
toa Strauss Waltz, or a Pistol Packing Mama. These lads should be
taken in hand. Were I not so far
away and so busy with the hundreds
of letters, I would do it myself.
I'd say to those wall-holder-uppers
—“‘Look here, don’t you think you’re
missing something? What if you
didn’t have nerve enough to phone
anyone to go with you? What’s
the.matter with seeing one home?
These are dangerous times for unprotected females, so they tell me,
and they have the right to a strong
right arm. Lives too far away?
You softies! Where is your chivalry? Your grandfather who walked five miles to a barn dance, would
have been ashamed of you.

Scared you can’t be the big shot
with a co-ed as you could be with a
town girl? Nonsense, and besides
a co-ed might give you a few tips
on that English course you think is
sissy, but have to get off this year.
Get hep, chum, and don’t say, “Oh,
maybe someone has already phoned
her, she’d only say no.” Suppose
that’s true, you’ve earned her gratitude by asking her, and there’s always another dance. “Far Fields”
may look “greener”, but there’s
some pretty good clover here at
home. Try it!

That’s my advice to them en, Forgotten Frailes, and I’m hoping they
read itand take it to heart; but until
they come to their senses, don’t despair, brush your hair a ‘hundred
strokes, and keep as sweet-tempered
and sunny-looking as I know you
can be. Write me again,

Yours,
Aunt Susie.

 
 
 
 
  
  
     
      
  

(1) Sole object of book—

 

490 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

HALIFAX

 

MEDIUM

OR a

MILD

PLAYERS ee AY ee UO 2 tea eee. t EE S

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
LORD NELSON HOTEL ,

Jerry Naugler’s Class Pins i
Orchestra Your class pin may be
small—but it is imporC

tant. Birks have the
“know how” to make it
look smart, yet cost a

little.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Halifax. N. S.

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

‘ Barrington St.,
Four Experienced Barbers 7

THE NATIONAL FISH CoO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
&

  
 

Nova Scotia

    
 

 

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH ©

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Dalhousie Uniuersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A.; B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: tunic. Bucinsering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standi ] i
hae ee gn ng, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculti
Course in Public Administration. a

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

avera b
oe the 2 Racietiaren: ge about $160 a year.

about $190 a year.
Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 

 
Above are shown Dal’s original Pistol-Packin’ Mammas, popular

vo f°
‘ bel)
Waar

_ feature of last Friday’s Frosh Show.

Al Dexter’s nation-maddening

lyrics were further enhanced by special Dalhousie vefses. What Sinatra
tried to do to this song, these “wild-wimmen” accomplished, and it is
reliably reported three Engineers fainted.

ers

a
i
‘i

ra
‘
:
.
ie)
3

1
1 J
ae
a

T SQUARE

Last Tuesday, the Engineering
Society conducted the second meeti ing of the year. The main topics of
the meeting were:

\ mn, ‘
1, The Boilermakers’ Ball.
2. Blood Donors.
__ 3. Engineers’ Trip.

' Concerning the big dance of the

7 _ year, a dance committee was nominated with Barnett, Knight and
§ Smith looking after arrangements.
_ he annual affair is to take place

fs geeround the 28th of January.

a:
1

ey
yp.

eae

i i a The second item was that of sup
t _ porting the Red Cross by donating

® blood at the Clinic; we hope the
Engineers will give this every sup
port, and be on hand at the Clinic

_ on the 17th of the month,

. | The latest word about the Engin> eers’ Trip is that one is expected
el to “take place in the near future,
| and the destination will no doubt
be a technical plant in the City.
7 me The President of the Horizontal
yey Club wishes to bring to your atteneee tion the fact that a special meeting
"of the club will take place this Sat__urday at Wolfville and it is imperative that all members be on hand.

id _ these beautiful music teachers at
| a certain musical institution take

-_---
_ Mike seems to be “hitting on all
a six” this year. We notice that he
has left the Bachelor Group (conis _ ducted by president F. R. M.) nd
has been seen towing a member of

_ the opposite sex around the campus

‘On numerous occasions. Yea, Gabe!

. - F “Well, here we are to see what dirt
is in the corners this week.
+! From all appearances on Friday
_ night Lauchie should be no longer
' afraid to renew a certain associ. “Tes” seemed to have a pretty
nice time two nights in a row. How
ct about you, Kay?
| % i 9
me N:
__ What were Ballem and* Hart do' ing at the Supper Dance minus
| f mt
fi

mol Why is Liz always late. Surely
ie “ Me

~

MEDICAL
NOTES

by B. Botulinus and B. Tetani |

“Count our blessings one by one,
count them all” ... there was a
young fellow named Gough. And
there was a young lady called Ruby
Case. They couldn’t get along with
one another at all, so they fought
and fought, until at last they
thought they would have to stop
fighting; and now they’re going to
be married. The moral is obvious,
the moral is ... yes, obvious.

* ae 2K

And now, dear children, consider
that eminent bacteriologist Donne
Smith. It will be very profitable for
you to remember him. His work on
exotovins is most important. Always be able to recall famous
mnemonic “Dirty Donne Smith tell
many C. W. A. C.’s very dirty
stories.”

* * *

The Anatomy lab was stormed by
a throng of first year students lead
by the famous pirate Ralph Linde.
“Where are our marks?” ... the
shout rang through the halls. The
sole defender of the lab, Mr. Ellis,

‘| then made himself heard above the

din, “They are not here”, quoth he.
And Fanjoy, the villian of the piece,
cackled evilly in the background.
“Foul, foul”, quoth Willet .. . crossing of swords ... Fanjoy flees.

* * *

Is Free Norway still free? Is
Muffett ... pardon the error...
is Moffat still free? For there came
a great blonde out of the north, and
Moffat met the master race, the
Nordic, and he became a slave. °

* a *

And what of the feuds, who has
won ... where are “Newfie Pete”,
and “David of the bay”? Nobody
knows? But wait until the Pine
Hill dance to see who will win the
doctor’s daughter.

* * *

The athletic Kenny Atlas ...
no, Rogers ... well anyway, he has
nothing on Dentino. The short legged Marathon was run, and Dentino
led MacNeil by several laps, or legs,
or something, short leg at that.
That great feline, Tiger Isaccs,
found his dogs weren’t good enough,
or something ... anyway the goblings got. him when the race was
only half over. All hail, Dentino!

Curtain, please.

Freddie’s a little faster than that
especially after that Sunday trip.

We hear Renee had to take a walk

alone on Sunday night. I guess a}

phone call fixed things up, though.

If you don’t want to be featured
in this column next week, take it
easy at Acadia! Woo! Woo!!

- MAPLE LEAF DAIRY

A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.
Phone 4-2357

| MILK - CREAM - BLEND - BUTTERMILK

that old fight, fight, fiight, with a couple of Rah! Rah’s! thrown
in for good measure. It’s “All Aboard For Acadia” in a big way
this week. So you happy coliege lads and lasses, here we are
with those yells and songs we promised you last week.

We are going to give you

the University songs, not the

Faculty songs, and the same goes for the cheers, for this week
end it’s one for all and all for one—the Faculties are merged as ||

one . .. Dalhousie!

YELLS

DALHOUSIE!

One—two—three
U—Pi—Dee
Dal—hou—-sie!

Start this one slow, and repeat
three times, each time speeding it
up a little. We start slow, just to
make sure we are on the right track,
and then we speed it up, and in the
third round we really roar it out
with all we’ve got ... no trouble
there . . . now gang, what say.

VARSITY YELL

Rah! Rah! Rah!

Rah! Rah! Rah! Rah!

Yah! Yah! Yah!

Yah! Yah! Yah Yah!
Skyrocket (Whistle) Boom.
Dalhousie! Dalhousie!

Tigers, Tigers, one, two, three,
Tigers, Tigers, U—pi—dee
Dalhousie, Dalhousie,
Dalhousie Var—sity!

This is a new one on most of you,
though it is really an old Dal yell,
and a good one too. It goes right
from the moment you start to yell,
really rolling along. There’s nothing
like it to put the old fight right into
the team and make them give with
all their might .. . so how about it
lads and lasses, let’s roll it out Nov.
18th... yeah team...

TIGER
Little Tiger—Wheeeeee
(high pitch)
Big Tiger—Whoaaaaaa
(low pitch)
Acadia—Wheeeeee
Dalhousie—Rahhhhhhh
Thisone doesn’t need any introduction to those of you who were at
the Dal Acadia game here at Studley, nor does it need any introduction to any student who has been
down to Acadia before, so what say,
gang, will we let it go?

DAL, LETS GO
Hit ’em high,
Hit ’em-low,
Dalhousie,
Let go, Rahhhhhh.

This one was tried at the DalAcadia game a couple of weeks ago
and it met with success. It’s a good
yell, gang, so give out with it good
and strong, and really make with the
noise, and show the team and
Acadia where our feelings lie.

DALHOUSIE SCORE

Dalhousie—Scoooooore.

Dalhousie—Scoooooore,

Dalhousie—Scoooooore,
Yeahhhhh—Team.

This one is an oldie too, but good.
Three times over, just a roaring it
out, and finish it up with a “Yeah
Team”. No trouble there, eh gang?

SONGS

COLLEGE HYMN

Where smiles the sea ‘neath a sky ever blue,
Where blooms the maple tree,

There stands Dalhousie,

the College by the Sea,

And her children all are we.

Yes,—we come from Dalhousie,

Our Alma Mater, our mother dear;

And proudly now we sing her praises
That all may know that her sons are near.

Chorus:

All hail to thee, Dalhousie,
Our College by the Sea;

With heart and voice we praise thee

,

Wherever we may be.

MY GIRL’S A CRACKERJACK
My girl’s a crackerjack,
She wears the Gold and Black,
She goes to Dalhousie,
I go there too——
And in my future life,
She’s going to be my wife,
How the————did you find that out

She told me so.

She goes to all the games

With all the other janes

I furnish all the change,

I go there tooo——

And in my future life, etc., etc.

She goes to all the shows,
Wears all the latest clothes,
Powders her little nose,

What for—God only knows,
And in my future life, etc., ete.

When I grow older,

Then I'll be bolder,

And I will hold her,

Close to my shoulder,

And in my future life, etc., ete.

GLORY TO DALHOUSIE
(Tune: John Brown’s Body)
Come, sons of old Dalhousie, Cheer your husky Team,
Rouse out a welcome to your men of steel and steam.
They. win the victory and tonight the birds will scream,
This is Dalhousie’s Day.

Chorus:

Glory, glory for Dalhousie
Glory, glory for Dalhousie

Glory, glory for Dalhousie

This is Dalhousie’s Day.

Whoop up the chorus,

boys, let everybody sing,

Swell out your lusty lungs and send it with a swing
And for Dalhousie boys we’ll make the welkin ring;
This is Dalhousie’s Day.

There are some of your College’s songs,

gang, and every

one of them has a good tune and a good swing to it, so what

Say,

his

will we sing them for Acadia, and make the Axeme

to the tune of Glory for Dalhousie???? Dugger the bina
Accordian can give us all the music we need_to sing the

songs and to learn them on the way down on

way could we better spend the time, than

and generally raising the roof . .

the train, for what
Singing and yelling
- 80 don’t forget gang, all cut

or Acadia, eh???? Nov 18th is Dalhousie’s day. . .

ee

~ Page Three

Say
Schwark

and be CY 1

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking
Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

DIANA SWEETS

TEA ROOM
370 Spring Garden Road
83-9754
We Cater to Collegians

CAPITOL
O

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“Hostage”

with LOUISE RAINER
and ARTURO DE CORDOVA

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“Thank Your
Lucky Stars”

with

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

*

“ALASKA HIGHWAY”
“WEST SIDE KID”

Humphrey Bogart - Eddie Cantor
Bette Davis - Ollivia De Haviland
Errol Flynn - John Garfield
Joan Leslie - Ida Lupine

Dennis Morgan - Ann Sheridan
Dinah Shore - Alexis Smith

GARRICK
Saturday - Monday- Tuesday

“LIVES OF THE BENGAL
LANCERS”
Gary Cooper and Franchot Tone

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“GHOST AND GUEST”
and “DEAD MEN WALK”

CASINO

ALL WEEK

| Starting Saturday
*

Deanna

OXFORD DURBIN

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

Joseph
“STORMY WEATHER” oe
“SUBMARINE ALERT” | ‘6 5
HER’S TO HOLD”
Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“SO PROUDLY WE HAIL”

Covered with
Neilson’s smooth
French-style Chocolate

 
   
  
 
 
    
  

ee i

SIDELINES

By BILL POPE

ance to finish its pieaiela. hefars
enthusiasts are warming up

to ‘their favorite topic of conver
‘Dal for several years has

| ey had much in the way of hockey,

      
   
 

ee

\: 3

=
z ay
Li *
ran

ee

"
;

ey,

, =m)

cals

is

;

i 7}.
|

a

Ya ~
- : i

oo
ne ded

=
pe 7

with them anyway!

expecting very much anyway!”

Le Mes those “in the know” say this

saree is going to be different.
Already plans are being laid for
bathe might be called an inter-ser
‘ vice league. Dal, as even the most

will ails, could never

 

BS estate in the senior hockey league

_ which boasts of such big name players as Bobby Baur, Johnny Atche
2. Be son, and “Bingo” Kampman, But
‘ly i even in the services there are only

a few men that can make the senior team. Therefore a secondary or
- intermediate league would be in order for all those who play a reasonably good game but are not of sen
Por ealibre.

At this time of- writing nothing

9 as yet is definite. However, it seems

to this writer, that a league com_ prising teams from Air Force, Army
_ Navy, St. Mary’s and Dal should be
able to organize and run a success
ful league.

It is suggested that those interested in playing hockey this winter
get in touch with hockey manager
Bob Seely or with Doug Clark, assistant manager, so that the organization can get away to a success
- ful start. Also a sheet will be post
ed where those interested may sign
their intention of playing.
Speaking of hockey brings to mind
the game of last Tuesday when the
girls battled the boys in their annual ground hockey match. We didn't have the privilege of witnessing
this interesting event, even more
interesting than usual this year for
it was played on a wet, soggy field
and the players at all times, we are
informed, did not remain in an upright position. Arriving on the scene

“fter the finis had been written to

‘this battle between the sexes, we
ventured to ask a member of the
fair sex who was the winner. A very
modest reply came back, “A tie, 6-6,”
Strolling in the men’s locker room
a short time later, we again put the
question to a young man, who had
evidently from his mud-stained appearance, taken part in the contest.
This time the answer, “We won, of
course! 5-1”. It seems that the girls
are not doing so hot of late years
in this encounter with the boys. Perhaps it is the girls don’t make
themselves as vociferous as the
males, or could be that they admit
—in the world of sport as well as
in other places—man’s superiority?

Interfaculty football was _ slated
to start on November 4th with Arts
and Science taking the field against
Medicine. However, for some reason
or other, Medicine did not put in
an appearance, and Arts and Science consented to play the match
at a later date. This time the game
was rained out. The Meds, it seems,
have a hard time working in their
games, for they havé O.T.C. drill at
noon Tuesdays and Thursdays and
that is the time when the other
teams are free. It has now ‘been decided that Arts and Science will
play Engineers with the winners
taking on Medicine.

Dal’s hope of entering Provincial
playdowns was crushed Saturday as
Acadia defeated the Army to win
the city league championship. Dal
opened the season by taking two defeats, then went on to victories over
Army and Navy and should add still
another by defeating Navy on Remembrance Day. Only one lone game
lies between Acadia and an undefeated record for the season. But
what a game that’s going to be as
Dalhousie Tigers wind up the season against their traditional rivals,
Acadia Axemen. All aboard for
Wolfville! On to Acadia!

 

DIPO

_ Dalhousie Institute
of Public Opinion

 

Did The Freshmen Measure Up To Your Expectations?
(Asked of Females only)
90% of the girls, asked this question, said that the Freshmen this

year did not come up to their expectations.

Some said that the boys

have no push, and that their manners at social functions are deplorable.
One lamented over the fact that at the dances the boys come en masse,

and sway”.

_ Stag of course, but never ask the hopefully waiting damsels to “swing
The remaining 10% said the boys were okay, as far as they

were concerned, but pointed out that they never had anything to do

*

(What’s the matter with you boys?)

x

Did The Freshettes Measure Up To Your Expectations?

(Asked of Males only)

60% of the brow-beaten men so queried, stated that the Freshettes
certainly did not come up to their expectations, in beauty, brains or in

any other way. The other 40% said yes, they have no complaint.

How
ever, a typical answer from this group was, “Yes, but then I wasn’t

* *

(How de you like that, girls?)

x

Do You Think Dalhousie Should Have A Hockey Team This

Year?

“YES” was the unanimous answer to this question.

100% of the

people interrogated said that they thought Dalhousie should enter a team.
All of those asked had the names of those “men of the hour”, Wade and
Currie, on their lips, and seemed to think that the college could have a very

excellent team ws year.

 

NFCUS Puts $500
_ In Victory Loan

Toronto—(C.U.P.)—The National
Federation of Canadian University
Students, an organization of which
the wartime campus has become
quite unconscious, is to be recognized during the Fifth Victory Loan
“campaign as the contributor of $500,
the amount of its reserve bank fund.
After the war, the money will again
be at the disposal of N.F.C.U.S. to
revive the structure it built up in
the pre-war years.

Claiming to be the “only official
body truly representative of Canadian students”, the organization held

_its last bi-annual meeting in Decem
ber, 1939, at McGill University.
There were gathered representatives
from the 16 member colleges across
Canada—from Dalhousie in Halifax
to U.B.C. in Vancouver. At it, they
discussed the various committees’ reports and planned a further pro
gram of activity.

 

_ To date, the N.F.C.U.S. oe

   

ly sponsored the Canadian University Press, had organized considerable inter-college debating, and had
arranged for student exchange on
scholarship basis. These, and other
accomplishments, were to be expanded; but the conference in 1939
proved the last for the duration.

Less than a year later a bulletin
was sent out to all N.F.C.U.S. representatives stating that all regular
activities of the Federation were to
be suspended for the time being.
Wartime exigencies took executive
members into the services and elsewhere.

¢ *R

Three of the chief ones became
Major E. A. MacDonald, Lieut. John
H. MacDonald, and F.O. Paul MceGillicuddy, who was later killed at
Dieppe. Sydney Hermant of Toronto
in the present presidential capacity,

nd others remaining have decided

to send the students’ contributions
to fight just as those students have
Yet almost all Canadian universi- ,

 

 

anc i |

Micere 14-4, ii Down

As Dal Tigers Go To Town

Though the game at Studley,
last week, was expected to be an
almost sure win for Dalhousie, and
was played at the same time as the
much advertised Canadian football
game at the Navy League Recreation Centre, it certainly. deserved
more than the crowd it got. The
south stands had two, occupants
while the north stands were less
than one-quarter full. "Real college
spirit
However, let’s get on with the
game,

The scoring opened while the first
half was still young, when Currie
broke through the Navy line to
score in the corner. The convert
from almost on top of the line was
missed by Wade. The second score
came after a nice line play, and just
for variety Currie made the try in
the other corner. Again Wade missed the convert from about the same
angle as the first.

Then Navy got a penalty kick
which Dallas made good. Very nearly at the end of the half, Navy got
another penalty kick but a fine line
play brought Dal back to its own
40-yard line. From there, Navy followed up a loose ball to the 25-line
but on the next play Currie kicked
and followed up to reach the Navy’s
5-yard line. However, the Tigers
ecouldn’t quite get it over,- and the
half ended with the score 6-2 in
favor of Dalhousie.

The opening of the second half
was followed immediately by a Navy
penalty kick right in front of the
posts. Dallas made it good, but this
slight threat to the Tigers’ lead was
soon wiped out, when a perfect line
play, involving most ofthe team
brought Dal up to the 5-yard line.
Despite the fact that Navy forced
them back to the 25-yard line and
Saunders was injure, and had to be
carried from the game, Hart made
a short punt and follewed up to give
Allen the opportunity to pick up
the ball for another try. Currie increased his fine score by making
the convert. Near the end of the
game Dalhousie reached the old
familiar 5-yard line, and Carton was
able -to snatch the ball from the
scrum making the fourth try. The
convert was missed by Currie, so
the game ended, Dal, 14; Navy, 4

The Intermediate game ended with
a score of Navy 12, Dalhousie 3.
Need we say more?

Tigers Win
11-0 Over Navy

We thought last Saturday’s game

couldn’t be surpassed in absence of |.

spectators, but Dalhousie “dood” it
again, If over fifty people saw the
game Thursday we would be surprised. The team measured right up
to the occasion, and those few spectators saw some of the _ sloppiest
play of the year during the first
half. There was no score for this
part, and Navy and Tigers amused
themselves by dashing back and
forth on the field, preventing the
odd scoring, threat.

The second half saw a few fairly
decent plays. Barry made a nice run
to the Navy 5-yard line, and on the
net play Carten, taking the bali
from scrum, broke through nicely
to set up the play for Currie. Carten
again set up a scoring play with
some nice broken-field running,
passing to Jardine who went over.
Currie missed both converts, but
made the net score after a brokenfield run. Barry made the convert,
to sink Navy 11-0.

 

ties today are still, though unknowingly members of the organization.
Tle post-war campus generation,
however, is the one for whom the
victory loan investment is destined.
They will, with its assistance, be
able to carry on and carry further
the work of the National Federation
of Canadian University Students.

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
Phone 3-7133 HALIFAX

 

 

These Men
Will Grind
The Axe

EPSTEIN
ANDERSON
KEITH
ALLEN
JARDINE

MARSHALL
CARTEN

CURRIE
HART
FARQUHAR
BURGESS
HAGEN
WADE
GIBERSON

 

U.N.T.D. NOTES

Information regarding training
and organization of the University
Naval Training Division has been
made available to the Gazette by
Lt.-Comdr. Hayes.

This newly formed service on the
campus has a total of thirty-eight
men in its ranks from Dal and Tech,
sixteen of which are from Dalhousie.
Lt.-Comdr. F. R. Hayes is commanding officer of the unit, with Lt. F. T.
Flavelle as chief instructor.

The hours of training are the same
as those enforced by the O.T.C., six
hours per week. The unit meets
every Thursday evening in the
Munro Room, Forrest Bldg. for lectures. On Saturday afternoons,
these men are taken by Naval buses
to H.M.C.S. Stadacona where they
are given periods of field training
in a drill hall. From here they
march down to the Dockyard where
the remainder of the afternoon’s
training takes place. In this depot

are the facilities for training in all |
of

seamanship and _ shore

types
duties.

There is one feature about U.N.
T.D. that distinguished it from the
other services on the campus, and
that is that the boys who join U.N.
T.D. have actually joined the Navy.
They will go on active service on the
completion of their courses or on
leaving the university. Thus they
wear the uniform of the ordinary
seaman, with no distinguishing features such those displayed by the
O.T.C. or the U.A.T.C. Upon joining U.N.T.D.,the student is placed
either as a stoker or as an ordinary
seaman. All mechanical and electrical engineers are stokers and artsmen and other types of engineers
are ordinary seamen.

As each year of training ends, all
seamen spend a two-week period at
H.M.C.S. Cornwallis, Deep Brook,
while the stokers spend an equivalent period at H.M.C.S. Stadacona in
Halifax. Then, at the finish of these
periods, the men are free, to go to
sea for the summer months, if they
so desire, and return to college in
the fall.

The U.N.T.D. is the only way now
for university men to join the Navy
and earn a chance for a commission.
Otherwise they would have to enter
from other walks of life and work
their way up through the lower deck.

For Sporting
Goods of .

Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

Call on

PIANOS - CHURCH ORGANS
SHEET MUSIC — RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

 

U.A.T.C. NOTES

Flight Lieut. Comeau announced
today that the classes of the U.A.
T.C. for this term will end with the
regular Friday morning drill period
on December 3rd.

* *£ *

Members of the U.A.T.C. will be
very glad to hear that W.O. 2 Ervin
is progressing favorably in an “East
Coast Hospital”. He had taken ill
suddenly with a very severe cold but
we expect to see him assume his
duties by the end of next week.

Whatever your plans for the
future, you will be happier
and more independent if you
have invested in a Mutual Life
Pension Plan.

By doing so, you can assure
a comfortable, regular income
later on. The income starts
at normal “retirement’’ age
(50 or 55)... the age when, if

THE

wee.

Established 1869
Head Office ~ Waterloo, Canada

IN FORCE OVER $638,000,000

 

INSURANCE

tt bilia Somithing!

+. YOu can spot it

every time

N SPORT or anything else, you can
always spot the fellow who has

* the edge. Just to drink ice-cold
Coca-Cola is to understand why
it is the best-liked soft drink on

earth.

Youth rates Coca-Cola high in
its schedule of recreation. Pure,
wholesome, taste-good refresh
ment, its the just-right companion

for games and social gatherings.

Ice-cold Coke makes any rest-pause, the

pause that refreshes. Enjoy it whenever

you can.

ay MARK : os
Delicious‘and

eer rss

one

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

 

 

No need to tighten
up over studies. A
ause nowand then
or ice-cold Coke

The best is
always the better buy!

 

f ~ ¥ ee ia, on
ok - 3

_Novernber 12, 1948

Much interest is being shown on
the Campus to the forthcoming marriage of Flt. Sgt. Roy Cochrane of
this unit to Miss Margaret Bailey,

Secretary to Dr. Kerr of Pine Hill.
The wedding will take place in
Bethany United Church, Armdale,
on Nov. 20.

 

* * *

A camera has been found in the
Science Building and- owner may
have same, by calling at the U.A.
T.C. Orderly Room.

‘Weiss: Pe hed

eosin 7"
oe
Se a
Leo

married, you and your husband
will find some extra money
doubly welcome.

How much does such a plan
cost? That depends on your
presentage, the income you wish
to receive, and the date you want
it to start. For further information write for the free booklet,
“The Future Belongs to You.”

ur

  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
      
  
 
   

 
 

648

 
