 

on
beg =:

eee
Se See)

     
   

  
   
 

Haier Stee
A guint a, XA) a a f
by, mika bes 4

Pons

 

eee? CANADA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 

     
  
  

 

4 is alll

 

CLIPPINGS

ee) F

yi BY JOHN HIBBITTS 
>
a

 

 

Torento University Stiidents Inves| tigate Liberal Arts Position
A Constructive Statement of
-- Poliey in Regards to the Liberal
_ Arts” was approved by the mass
-* meeting of students in the social
ee seiences and the humanities held in
the Economies Building last week.
‘this statement was formulated by
a student committee appointed to
i, ‘ _ eontinue a survey of the liberal arts
a position in the present and postat war period.

 

eee

1
jf
|
.

* *

i=
{Cet

:
> <i
=

A eustomer sat down at a table
in a smart restaurant and tied a
_. napkin around his neck. The sean_.™ dalized manager called a waiter and
; hee instructed him, “Try and make him
, _ understand, as tactfully as possible,
that that’s not done.
_»  $aid the waiter to the customer:
“Pardon me, sir, shave or haireut?”
to —Queen’s Journal.

oa a?
23

  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
    
    
   
      
  
   
  
   
    
 
      

>

cits
We
aK

% *

1 i mu
& «

Advertisement de Luxe ;
a> Use Lumpo Soap, doesn’t lather,
., doesn’t bubble, doesn’t clean. It’s
* just company in the tub,

%* % *

It Could be Halifax
Conductor: I’ve been on this tram
for seven years. |

“you get on?

I a *

It happened in a little church in
- Georgia. The church service was
proceeding successfully when a woman in the gallery got so interested
that she leaned out too far and fell
over the railing. Her dress caught
_ in a chandelier, and she was suspended in mid-air. The parson noticed her undignified position and
thundered at the congregation: “Any
Continued on page 3

 

——

Trade Restrictions.

_ Why was it impossible. It was
‘because there “reparations” ‘could
bit i, collected only from the proceeds
of what Germany was able to sell
to other countries. Thése other
countries were more or less unwilling to have German goods sold to
_ them. Indeed, some of the coun|. tries claiming the more “repara“4 tions” proved the more unwilling to

hese sales. The policy of re
‘

ot ae

DUL ID

 
  
        
      
    
 
 

he —“The Shea.” |

tional trade proved
he he policy of col
N. S8.,

HALIFAX,

Munro Day Festivities
Most Successful In Years

Many Participate

in Varied Program

Munro Day festivities commenced in high spirits with the

annual boys vs. girls basketball game.

Clothed in short skirts

and besmeared with lipstick the boys “tripped” onto the floor

amid much cheering from their faithful supporters.

Concern
ing the outcome of his struggle, (a debatable point), it is firmly
argued by the girls that they had it all over the “stronger sex”’.
Of course the boys have a word to say about this too, but, a

good time was had by all.

Mrs. Sunderland (Inez Smith) was

referee and kept a keen eye out for fouls. Following this singular spectacle, there was an archery contest which participants

showed both skill and accuracy.

a ®

Musical Comedy Is
Outstanding Success

Dalhousians got their first
glimpse of a musical comedy production “Masquerade” — written,
staged and acted by fellow Dalhousians—on the evening of Munro Day,
and the result was two hours of entertaining mirth, melody and romance,

Corringham, Archibald Featured

Featuring soprano Kay Archibald
and tenor Don Corringham, the show
also unveiled a large assemblage of
dancing and singing talent from the
ranks of Studley and Forrest.

Don Corringham
The dejected hero, turned down
by the Air Force, accompanies his
army friend, Doug, Rogers, on a
trip to a Laurentian winter resort,

‘Disgusted Passenger: Where did where, through fresh air, pretty

women and the romantic environ
/ ment of the “Masquerade,” he recov
Staff Questionaire

Question: “WHO PAYS THE COST OF WAR?”
Answered by: Prof. Russell Maxwell, Department of Economics.

 

ers his lost spirits, finds his Cinderella, Kay Archibald, and joins his
lady-love in the lilting refrains of
“MY Hero.”

D. Dazzles ‘Dal’

Dorothy Hamilton’s throaty arrangement of “Baiseme Muscho”
(Mu-hu-hu-cho) — practically stole
the show and brought waves of ec
Continued on page 3

 

 

(The THIRD in a

the nation.]

The time-honoured practice was for victorious nations to collect the césts of war from
their defeated enemies. Indeed they usually collected more than this — or tried to!
levied “tribute”? upon their victims. \
the war of 1914-18, that war should be a source of gain, so in the “fourteen points” he formulated as the basis of peace he repudiated “indemnities” but approved of “reparations”. This

means that Germany should make good the damage she had caused “‘to civilians and to civilian

_ property” by the war, we should not have to pay the “costs” of the war i.e. what the victorious governments had spent in prosecuting the war. The change was perhaps significant from
the standpoint of principle, but it made no practical differen
to collect even the smaller sum of “reparations”’.

| The United States, which was the; equivocal—name of “lend - lease.”

It seemed, however,

principal creditor—perhaps, indeed,
the only real creditor—decided that
these debts should be treated as

fundamentally similar to commercial

ebligations and collected as far as

possible. How far was this? It
was as far as the exports of the

debtor countries could be expanded.

 

‘This proved to be not very far at all,
and these remittances were discon
tinued after a few years like those

time? O

On the face of it, we seem

o have learned something from our
| financial experiences after the last

Bie war. In Canada we are making
Gat | we | as .” In the!

ert oa:
aan

teaching staff to questions put forward by the Gazette on
problems pertaining to the university, the community and

to President Wilson, at the end of

ce because it proved impossible

Quizz Program

; Moving into the next phase of the
afternoon’s entertainment we come
to the highly successful quizz program condutted by Quizz-Master
i“Lauchie” and the mysterious “Mr.
X”, The mystery as to the latter’s
identity caused much wonder among
the audience and we question as to
where this “Mr. X” got the lovely
set of red flannel underwear! It was
with no little difficulty too, that we
could interpret, by the additional
drapings on his misshapen figure,
from what part of Europe he hails.

Of no small importance, was the
Square Dance—a new thing around
Dal. Although inexperience in this
energetic type of amusement caused
some turmoil at first. Dr. Bell, having mustered the energy he has been
saving up these last few weeks, gave
out with a lusty “follow me” and
soon everyone got into the swing of
the grand chain—or whatever they
call it. Having thus so efficiently
earried out some physical drill equivalent to a 10-mile marathon, everyone gathered around the piano to
give additional exercise to their
vocial chords.

By this time the “inner*man” was
ealling and with one accord hungry
faces started to appear in the door
of the lower gym. For this very
important part of the day’s entertainment, the girls of Delta Gamma
are to be heartily congratulated -on
the enjoyable meal served. One

Continued on page 3

series of answers by members of the

They

What will be done about the collections of these sums after the war?
We are told with authority that the
settlement must be such as will not
impede the healthy developments of
international trade and, more generally, of a healthy international order. This looks like a sounder attitude, but what its application will
be, and whether even the principle
itself will stand up in the ferment
of post-war politics, remains to be
seen. This conclusion, at any rate,
may be drawn from it all, that the
cost of war falls mainly on those
who have the misfortune to be involved in it at the time, and that it

' et | is futile for them to hope to escape

from it, of recover it afterw. A>.

ve a = a

 

 

     
     
    
 
     
 

MARCH 17, 1944

 

 

   

VISCOUNT BENNETYW

Generous gifts to Canadian Educational Institutions by the former
Prime Minister of Canada and Dalhousie graduate has been announced
recently.

Classics Club Holds

Entertaining Evening

 

home of Mrs.
Henry Street. ue

Highlights of the evening devoted,
mainly, to a consideration of certain
aspects of Greek history, was the

Margaret Cornell,

Philip II of Macedon, which traced
the monarch’s career from his imprisonment in Thebes to the invasion
of Greece-proper and the disintegration of the Greek city-state. Read
by Miss Beryl Anderson, an Honours
student in Classics at Dal, and backed up by appropriate illustrations
and anecdotes.

Members of the Faculty present
included Dr. A. K. Griffin, Dr. Roebuek and Major Logan._ J. C. MeLaren, President of the Classics
Club, presided.

Dalhousie Students
Active at King s

—_——
AS SSS

 

students engaging with zeal in Dalhousie activities, it is interesting to
note that it is not at all one-sided,
and that Dalhousie students. contriute much to the social life of the
sister college.

At Saturday night’s Haliburton
Club meeting, of three papers presented, two were by Dalhousie Law
men, Bi!l Lawrence, third year, and
Bob McCleave, first year. Lawrence
read an original short story, and
McCleave gave a brief outline of the

conditions whieh have made Red
army victories so outstanding. A

third paper, by Arthur Mifflin, was
on Foreign Exchange Control.

Current Art Exhibit
On Display in Geol. Lab

The Canadian Group of Painters
travelling exhibition will be held in
the Geology Laboratory from Friday, March 17th to Monday, March
20th, and will be open from 10 a.m.
to 10 p.m. Included are paintings
by such top flight Canadian artists
as A. G. Jackson, Arthur Lismer,
Henri Nasson and Lawren Harris
with the pictures valued from $700
down,

The show comes from the National Gallery and is sponsored by the
Dal Art Group, the N. S. Society of
Artists, the N. 8. College of Art
and the N.S. Museum of Fine Arts.

 

The most successful meeting of
the Dalhousie Classics Club, to date,
was held last Friday nigh+ at the

Dal Is Prinics
Of Milion Dollar Gifts

Law, Medicine, Science Benefit

Lord Bennett, graduate of Dalhousie law school, prominent
in Canadian political life for many years, has given a total of
$750:000 to Dalhousie University during the past year, it was
Altogether, Lord Bennett made gifts
totalling over one million dollars to educational institutions in
the Maritimes and Western Canada during 1943, but this is the
first announcement of his magnificent benefactions.

statement to date.
——-—-——@)

To those who find many King’s |

announced this week.

authorities have made no

Date of Junior
Prom Changed

The Junior Prom was planned for
Friday, March 24th, but because of
a misunderstanding with the hotel
management, the date had to be
changed to Thursday, March 23rd.
The Junior Class will have as their
guests Dr. Dixie Pelluet, honorary

Dr. Hayes, and members of the
garduating class. Formal dress
ptional because of the difficulty of
obtaining taxis. Wartime restric
10

 

 

QO
| —Kay Harrison, Joan McInnis, Irma
MacQuarrie, Les McLean, Art Hart
ing and George Smith, and will be

 

reading of a paper on the career of | on sale at the Lord Nelson Hotel.

 

Tag Day Planned
On Dal Campus

The committee on International
| Student Service in Canada has set

its objective $20,000,
imately $1.00 per student in Canada.

as

; hace gate wes
ey, er
eu en

pF pies

Gazette

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

president of the Senior Class, and |

is |

tions make it necessary to change |
the seniors half price. Tickets for | Science Faculty, preferably of a subthe Prom, may be obtained from any | ject connected with manufacture of
{ the following committee members | pulp or paper, who shall be designat
approx- |

 
  

ee ee ee a Ree a
™, no as ay 4
anc WS

ey = #% :
had 7. wal al

rp

; AL

Sp

 

 

 

 

pal Recipient

Dalhousie

Heading the list of institutions
which benefit from His Lordship’s
inspiring donation, Dalhousie received $25,000 some time ago for a Weldon Profefssorship, and the other
| $725,000 was given last year, with
the terms that it is to form part
of the Endowment Fund of the University.

Law, Science, Medicine Benefit

The net annual income of the gift
is to be used to provide:

The salaries of two professors in
Law School, one to be designated
“The Viscount Bennett Professor of

” and the other to be designated
“The Dean Weldon Professor of .. .”
The salary of a professor in the

 

ed “The Harry Shirreff Professor
Of ee

Another great benefactor of the
university is honored in the fourth
chair to be endowed; Mrs. FE. B.
Eddy, whose generous gifts built
Shirreff Hall. Mrs. Eddy was a
nurse, and Lord Bennett’s donations
provides for the salary of a professor in the Medical School, preferably of a subject connected with
nursing, the professor to be desir
‘nated “The Mrs. E. B. Eddy Profes
The student collection of caution

deposits on election day was very
successful on Studley Campus.- Approximately $350 was collected.
xesults from Forrest Campus will
bring up this amount.

Donations Sought

 

 

But this is not good enough.
| Within the next few weeks ‘Dal’
students will be asked to give to International Student Service. We
believe that Dalhousie students
want to help their fellow
in distress, students in prison and
internment camps, students in China and in Greece. A slight sacrifice on the part of each one of us is
little enough to do to help these
students.

Soon an LS.S. Tag Day will
held on the Dal. Campus.
your change for that day.

be
Save up

|
|

}
students

SOP Gl Soe

Law, Hall Libraries Mentioned

Lord Bennett has also established
a Trust Fund cf 360.00 in Dominion
of Canada Bonds, to be used among
various Maritime educational and religious institutions. The Law Jibrary of Dalhousie will receive 10%
for the purpose of making additions

ito the books of the library. and
‘another 10% goes to the Shirreff
| Hall library.

 

Govern Yourself...

1. Junior Prom — Lord Nelson
Hotel, March 23rd.
2. ‘Dal’ Services Ball — Gym.,

March 31st.
3. C.0.T.C. Inspection, March 25.
Final meeting Delta Gamma,
March 2ist, at Sheriff Hall,
7:30 p.m,

 

DIPO--
Dalhousie Institute
of “Public Opinion

1. Do you find the Art Exhibits held at Dalhousie this year interesting?
Most students (80%) agreed that they were. Comments ranged from

“A very novel understanding” to the “Oh, but yes, definitely!” One student liked the exhibit but objected to the surrealistic influence of machin
ery on sO many works.

16% of the students were not interested in the

displays, and 4% confessed to not having seen them.

Ze

Is student enthusiasm on the up-grade at Dalhousie this year?

To this question 100% of those questioned thought it was. All agreed
that college spirit was at its best for years. “Just look at that Student Council Election!” ejaculated one super-enthusiast.

beyond Munro Day?

Do you think that student extra-curricular activities should extend

75% of those questioned answered in the negative. One Studlean

thought deeply for a minute and exclaimed No!

Munro Day is the

occasion for which one-half of the first term is spent in preparation
and the other half of the term in recuperation.” 10% thought that
activities should continue later: “Well go out anyway. Why not have
an evening at college instead of waiting in line outside some theatre?”
15% held no opinion. Of these one prominent campus personality
remarked “After giving the matter serious consideration IT find it

impossible to express an opinion,” _

‘ a wa
: = oe = rs Cy et Se) a | a

ae

an, ee St

aan

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 

_| mney they will have to work with,
| the staff can go ahead in September
sr| with an estimate of their revenue
riter | accurate to within two or three hun
ith | dred dollars. The Year Book could
| be put on the same basis as the Gaz
 

E rot ness manager. The present plan,
some | under which the editor is responsods | ible for Yhe financing of the Year
~ in| Book, could be discontinued. Anothain-| er advantage would be the eliminas| tion of a time-wasting sales campaign.
- These suggestions are not new
-} ones. Some students will recall the
ond to none} clection of last March, in which they
ks of Maritime} were asked to vote on the proposal
t, unfortunately, it) of having a Year Book fee collected
t this year, at any! on registration. The result of the
, i vote was two to one in favour of the
plan. Last fall the Students’ Council, realizing the value of the Year
Book both to the students and to the
University, unanimously endorsed
the decision of the voters, and our
Council President, Ken MacKinnon,
was appointed.to interview President Stanley regarding the matter.
The result was that the - President
refused to consider the collection of
a year book fee at the University
office. It is unfortunate that*® the
wishes of a majority of the student
body and of every one of their student representatives, cannot be carried out in this matter.
Let us have further views expressed on this subject, and perhaps
by the time next fall comes around
we may see the way clear to lay
plans for a 1945 “Pharos” that will
be a credit to Daihousie. .

for in the Student

while here at ‘Dal’ no’

ision is made. If three
e most, could be coleach student upon regther as a separate year
added to the present ten
meil fee, the problem
solved. Taking enrolment
‘ed, this would provide a

s

teen hundred dollars.
each student receiving a
, the Council would feel
granting a substantial

325 0, to augment these fees.
unts, plus revenue from

three thousand dollars
ed with last year’s revabout twelve hundred dol) amount adequate to supstudent. with a book “wor- |
lhousie.”
advantages of this plan are
S. _ Instead of wondering, as

WV m 1ro Day Successful | Art Group
 |Presents Final Show

a: _ Continued from page 1
The Canadian Group of Painters

_ freshman remarked that

Jucky guys are going to get
vives some day”. Travelling Exhibition will be open
‘ 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., on March 17th,
1&th, 19th and 20th, at the Geology

Special Speaker
. of satisfaction show- :

Department, Science Building, Studley Campus.

Thanking you, Mr. Editor,

| I am,

Respectfully yours,
Lawrence Sutherland

7

ll faces, holiday-happy stusettled down for the evetertainment. With Ken
n presiding, the first item

m was a very interestss by Judge Archibald.
ibald briefly outlined the

nf Dalhousie’s great beneemphasized the signifiae elas = ;
"a holiday in his memory.
irs. Pond, representing the Dal--]|
sie Alumnae Association, then reDalhousians of the debt
to the University. Prof.

Jed the coveted Connolly
the Pi Beta Phi sorority

hort address was made by
s, the new president of
» Council. Following
ents’ Council for 1944laced and presentation
were n Dalhousians
d the announcement of
of Dalhousie’s highest

 

ART GROUP

The Canadian Group of Painters,
an outgrowth of the well known
Group of Seven, held its first exhibition in 1933 and since then has exhibited from time to time in Toronto and Montreal.

This, their 1942 Travelling Exhibition, is the last of our current series of exhibitions. It is without
doubt the most colourful and exciting of the exhibitions we have had
to date. Some of Canada’s leading
artists have works in this show;
among others might be mentioned:

A. J. Casson, R.C.A.

Charles Comfort, A.R.C.A.

A. Y. Jackson |

Arthur Lismer, A.R.C.A.

H. Mabel May, A.R.C.A.
Lilias T. Newton, R.C.A.

Emily Carr ;

Henri Masson

Andre Bieler

Sue Morse. Winner __
the winner of the Mal
Campus Clippings “

ir conf 1 upon her b
7 apueorred athellande a Continued from page 1

' pusson who turns around am goin’
to be struck stone blind!”

_A darky in the front row, whose
curiosity was getting the better of
him, turred to his companion and
said: “Brudder, I’se agoin’ to risk
ina? .” ; (ee one eye.”

of the Pan Hellenic Award |
is Connie Archibald of
‘S.. Ever since Connie}

—U. W. O. Gazette.

 

en, Stee ci ne: McGill Presents Radio Play
‘she THRE Ae eCHyN “Blood Story,” a radio play by the
A oe American playwright, Arch Aboler,
| will be broadeast over a nation-wide
-__ | network of the CBC. The play, pre, _| sented by the students of the uni'._ | versity, is to be broadcast in aid of
| the Red Cross Society’s Blood Donor

hes ’ = y x *
o. th : ‘Six Year Medical Course Requested

      

aipi~|0f medicine might be the first to

   

ette, with a paid editor and busi- |.

| News that the present second year.

    
   

| 15 7c eames a aencinanaiaal ne
> 1 ¢ - fal ¥ ou ' ak is a ty an 9 7
A a ae te : PnP «) . “* fj a ¥ Cel ey d 7
MOS ME Leer cee ST wee Tk ENS eh ee ae iT eet
ae [ ah rT | re 12ap ? 5 “af HEC ae. ae it : :
, mg te . = . af Fs i ‘4 wns Z eta Af ane i J “ i: 7
' Se OE Aig teiy, oe ha a { oT ;
hae ey Fe ny es a oe 4] a fi ean a” a) a) i” ee, Pi " Wo
- ‘ Pte fey ny F Til } 1 a + y rad a ae yi tee ba es ar vase n 1] mE ul! 7 tirl ‘ A
vit. " Jo ie Pair: | ‘ ae. f ° ia ~
2) en Me eae datas 19" F “esr
— _ — a names —— =
ar Seta ne Te) ccm ee Fee ;
: ye ann eta UL Abe, wt) Me ¥ st
i _ : b 1} 4 : i nr a J : # s <9.
= eg) Meret. eas 2 4 ae
“han; eae! re Tre me yt S ‘ : y e aD EN
eae J Tint : bP ae = £ : 4 : eR ayy! + er
Bese cre ee gee tow rouch Dalhonsi ; Gazette.
‘ *

i ofthe ede by the Sea

. Founded 1869 — ‘The Oldest College Paper in America”
The views expressed in any column of THE GAZE'TE are those of

the author; it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of
the Student Body.

GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44

WUGIRGNSTE OHIO ie ak a A Sasa wis TR khan aia hale Ted Shields
RFR ATES ON 3: bs d aie Rombes ok AdeB mb pv Gales vm a0 4 Kevin Barry
Managing Editor ....... path PAA DS SU rio soca ih ots Jim McLaren
WOR BREE UNCON 6 5 eek oye aus va cee Luatean sue slice ssesse 308 MeCleave
SENDS ETE STG 2S 9 .t GEE «os bog AUP SN Ns wdGh Wie lorv ese vieve lure Bill Pope
HONE Esa MTRMREAE ret EN ys a toh kgn 9! ok Acs Dosa aie vim > ajbceale weve Lou Collins
GUO es ii-5% Gers os 6.5.5 idea ins Vee a K, Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
Rama MIRON Wg OP Calo a's, ie. signs ch Meu a ole cS tbe caw b oe Laurie Smith
ee POM ATIIO NS SS. ss ose deaths bio ose ab ace John Hibbetts
SRN MRE OCNATES G25 34 (GIRS g [tip V.cs0. 4 0x o wamioreincebechine bb's Don Corringham

Reporters: Jim Campbell, Bill Lawrenee, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley
Bob Kimball, Marg Morrison, Eileen Phinney, Neil MeKelvie

AVE

No words at the disposal of the Gazette editorial board can
express to Viscount Bennett the depths of gratitude which all
students feel for his magnificent gift to Dalhousie. In the
exalted positions in public life to which he has been raised,
Vicount Bennett has never ceased to remember his Alma Mater.
Now he has demonstrated his unfailing interest in his University in terms that admit of no contradiction. Long will his
name be honored and held in the memories of all Dalhousians.

ATQUE VALE

It has long been the custom for the Gazette to cease publication on or before Munro Day; this year, however, because of
a later opening date in the fall, and the unscheduled extra week
of holidays at Christmas, the nineteenth Gazette is only now
appearing. The final issue of the paper, which will be a special
edition, will not appear for another week or so. This issue
seems the fitting time to review briefly the policies of this
column.

The influence of the editorial. in journalism is declining.
Especially is this true on the Dalhousie campus. Nevertheless,
Gazette editorials have a certain amount of weight, and for that
reason, must be written with only one aim, to further the best
interests of the students. That was our trust from 75 years
of Gazette publication, we believe we have kept faith.

Whether these policies-«are really worthwhile must be left
to the judgment of the students and particularly to those who
will carry on the Gazette. If they should be deemed good, they
are worth fighting for, because it will only be by constant action
that they can be continued or achieved. This, then, has been
the “editorial volicy” of the Gazette.

There should be some interested guidance to the course of
studies in the Liberal Arts; classes should not be handed out
according to the conveniences of a time-table.

A thorough and well-enforced initiation for every freshman
with the participation and cooperation of every upperclassman.

A one-week period of review Christmas and spring examinations in place of the present system by which classes are
held, and new material introduced, to the very day before the
exams.

A system of marking examinations which would be fairer
to students entering other universities than the present procedure of bracketing most pass stduents between 40-50%, and
honor students between 65-70%, thus putting them at a distinct
disadventage immediately they leave Dalhousie’s walls ;

A better-integrated, strongly-supported program of war
services, incorporating the Blood Donors Society, the I.S.S. fund
and all other activities by which Dalhousians are. or should be,
contributing to their nations strugele for freedom:

oo

A temporary roll of honor, with the names of all exDalhousians in the armed forces of whom the Alumni office has
been able to learn, inscribed on it, and erected in some prominent place on the campus, the cost, which would not be very
great, to be borne by the Students’ Council;

A Studley man, or ex-Studleyite for President of the
Council, anda vigorous election campaign to arouse interest and
help make the elections truly democratic ;

_ More and better faculty issues, (a plank in our platform
which resulted in the memorable Boilermakers’ Bulletin, and
the Arts and Science edition, as well as the regular Delta
Gamma Issue).

A complete overhaul in the C.O.T.C. system to reduce the
dissatisfaction with the aimlessyyeiteration of routine.

These points, then, have made up our policy; upon them
rests your judgment.

     
       

 

i ee oe

Musical Comedy -
Continued from page 1

 

 

 

“At Home” as Bartender
Other worthies in the production
were Art Hartling as the hero’s
father, | Betty O’Toole as Betty
O'Toole, and’ E. J. Shields, who
played the bartender with “under| standing” simplicity.

Dancing groups and singing chorus deserve credit for their wellrehearsed efforts as do Edith Greek
ond Serg. Lefrois whose two piano
duets provided the necessary background. and accompaniment for
chorus and soloists,

Proceedings concluded with the
singing of “Gaudeamus Igitur”—
the international students’ hymn.

‘ To sum up, “Masquerade” was an
excellently performed, well-timed,
and above all ENTERTAINING
presentation—perhaps the most enthusiastically received Glee Club
undertaking in recent years.

static approbation from assorted
gentlemen in the audience—a masculine contrast to the Sinatra
“bobby-sock girls.” However, there
was apparently no swooming (although stimulants were resorted to
in some cases).

Irene Spence and Serg. H. Lefrois, dancing as “guest artists” in
the floor-show, captivated the audiexce with professionally executed
twists and turns and were brought
back by enthusiastic applause for a
“holero” encore.

 

Songstresses June Grant and
Terry Monaghan contributed fine
solo renditions. Al Secord was convincing as a drunk, and Mary Bissett, as the French-Canadian - wait
  

oe ae ies cea ‘ress, did an excellent job of a very o — zo off to Harry Zappler,
md Gaia aheeck tie camien ove: difficult role. Abe Sheffman made a : hields, Don Corringham, Kay
Ce ee OE eit lout appealing. sortie to the eee and ae ened, whose |
snned and dismay-|{*Hehts garbed in a “Scott’s|"¢Volutionary efforts brought out ||

 

 

 

H
a | b H
°) Elica

ae ee

March 17, 1944.

 

 

AVY 9CUT "CUGARETTES

PLA YER SN

 

 

‘

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S»®

THE REXALL STORES ,
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

 

 

 

Aquamarine - 
Gem Of The Sea

The seablue color of a
fine aquamarine—a _  variety of beryl—is responsible for its name,

After any Show

or o . .

Before any Meal

Large transparent crystals come from its chief

Think of... . source, Brazil, and are
comparatively inexpensive.

The Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. 5.

Green Lantern

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
®

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.

Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists

HALIFAX HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

Nova Scotia

 

 

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE
ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

 

eee

 

 

 

Dalhousie Uniuersit

Halifax, Nova Scotia ,

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Math i
Modern Languages and History. SENS,

Graduat i i i
adua “fie rental Standing, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professior
Course in Public Administration. ou tes:

Many valuable scholarshi
eg accel ips, on entrance and through

The Professional Faculties
in :

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation,

 

Inclusive Fees:

,

in the B.A. course, avera
in the B.Sc. sotiten. es ge about $160 a year.

about $190 a year.

R ‘eside 1e4
‘ i 8 Tr Hall. x . oT for ‘oy, .
oe Cc agenesis a Sarg iY ree
r 7 Pie aS +. fa 7 PRICE a Whi . 7
= 7 = Sn tn i . eal a ;

   

 

 
Who do you pick as the
this year, Tripe? >
: Pve seen them all and I
rick any of them.
f cs “You enn it’s a woman,

e: Kot at all.
z; A professor?»
Pt — aware that pro
In sports, there
$ hockey th Pans suffered be
sta tee Ioarare of he year was the
P ee aiensity production, “Masquer
tae aie The reverse is true:

- But we present an inBase ey
artz, wi
“Tripe” at the conclusion of the college year.

ade”, which wasn’t too good, but it
went over really marvellous — and
was by far the best show of the
year. In Delta Gamma, fraternities

and sororities, a great deal of spirit

was shown; the S.C.M. was exceed
inglyy active; Sodales had a.good

year.
Hartz: What about the honest-to
God general student interests of this

year?

Tripe: Exceedingly better than I
have seen them for three years of
wartime. Now they really seem interested. I suppose it’s the natural
result of a wartime selective service
policy which means that only good

.|students are allowed to remain.

Those who are good scholars have,
surprisingly enough, come out of
their shell and made a good account

harder than ever before.

‘students who were the campus wow
pows now are actually studying
The war

has been the great factor in equalizing that age-old problem — student

vs. enthusiast.

Hartz: Could you name some specific organization for outstanding
college spirit ?

Tripe: I suppose it would have to
be the Engineers. You see them behind the scenes doing the dirty work
for Glee Club shows; they’re active
supporters of sport; as the ‘““‘We Love
Us” boys of the campus they equal
the touching artistry of a great artist painting himself.

Hartz: What about the other societies ?

Tripe: It’s hard to find a weak
spot; Arts and Science improved under new management; Law certainly
put more spark into campus politics
than thee has been for years, with
some live-wire campaigning; Medicine, probably the least active because of its rigorous schedule augmented by the wartime touch, still
had enough enthusiasm to again decide campus candidates.

Hartz: well, who do you pick as
the outstanding figure of the year.

‘| You've mentioned no names.

spcents Defined, Analyze d
Picked Apart In Exams

Mt =

eta the Spring a young man’s
ney lightly turns to thoughts of
‘e.” Thus wrote the Poet, but be

Cc.

i

young man a student in one of

our many mills of learning,—Dal to

eo u,—his thoughts, not lightly, turn

e sxaminations. In fact they weigh

eavily on what he is accustomed

refer to as his “mind,” as plum

_ pudding on roast beef and dump
lings. Who should know better than

John X, who have given the sub
much consideration,

d hereby set down my conclusions,

not that they are of any proven

_ benefit- to myself, but for the con
ie of my distracted col‘ Seen

_ Firstly, (and if I sound too much

ea Presbyterian Divine, forgive

it is my unalterable belief that

a Ov ‘ are a barbarous custom, wor~ thy of deletion, and a complete
| w ste of time and effort on the part

Tr

thout being confronted with a
tal picture of the perpetrator of
crime sheet, —Professor A. B. or

Bs dovosit box. The title?
yes, I see, I know —“Questions
Answers in Thirty Subjects” by
7. E. Knowsitall, A.N., D.H.,
W.” What chance, I ask you,
e I, or you either for that matNone, dear reader, none.
\ Secondly, there must be some satSfactory method of approach to examinations, but so far, with search\ ae ” eye, I have noted only the fol, owing:
| (a) Raris Universitas: The student who enters the examination
ro om, the temperature of which is
Bi ally zero (or maybe that’s my
ves), with a smile, fully clothed
oe n his right and left minds. No
M visible notes on the cuff, no shrinkfrom the ordeal, —nothing but
aura of confidence born of
wledge and the power to exude
1c. He is one whose ears have
‘attuned to the lecturer’s voice
lasses, whose mental pulses have

; rer 2
apt
- ours of study Bice been shave re‘proach; ; who has not been lured
refrom by the ‘Kall of Kampus

a rs, and aie he knows
at he knows, and who is prepared
our forth his soul on the snowsheets. The perfect student,
riend, and rare as non-synthetic

™ salars . in with a “egyhinte
nee. bring - on - the* may be a cover
whether he knows or not, nor cares
and is unlikely to spend the allotted
time on the paper, becoming bored
long before that. |

(c) Crammus postus:
type there

} _ Of this
is a high percentage.

For weeks he has been thrusting the Laren for promoting better faculty ine role of the auetader th the

thought of exams, behind him like
Satan. Gone are the shining hours
when he has gamboled and sung.

He is the Kampus Kid in the Big, King
Sweater and crested notebook. Now| silenced a eertain lady in a recent’
Nemesis in the form of notes untak- | political issue . .

en, unborrowable, and unprocurable,
stalks grimly at his side. He has
made the fatal mistake of thinking
that there can be _ concentrated
knowledge as well as concentrated
foods, and has spent the past ninety
hours surrounded by books and indecipherable scrawlings masquerading as notes. He has persuaded
himself that all this will definitely
do something for him. His eyes are
bloodshot, an aroma of stale coffee
hangs around him; his used-to-be
crew cut needs either a lawn-mower
or a hair-ribbon, and he comes in to
the exam. in a state of approaching
complete collapse. Is he sunk?
Yea, verily.

(d) Mentalis nervis: This is the
chap who has my deepest sympathy.
(I’m in his department myself). He

‘is a well-meaning cuss who wants

to do well both for the sake of the
old folks at home and his dear professors who, he feels, have striven
mightily. He hasn’t skipped a class,
(except the time his landlady turned on the gas and he had such a
time pulling her head out of . the
oven, and was questioned by the police as to the food she served.) He
has made friends, spent a modicum

of time on pleasure and a conscien- |

tious amount on his studies. He
knows if he doesn’t know what he
should know, he should know, and
he is eager to do his anxious best.
Up to the momentwhen he looks
at the exam. paper, he is a good
prospect. Then, alas, he is as
e@roggy as a boxer who has lost the
first nine rounds. Each question
painstakingly read means less to
him than the one before. He struggles to maintain mental composure,
put a television 2x4 of his head
would do for a double of the great
expanse on the road to “ShangriLa.” Despairingly, he tackles the
job, At half-time his shoes are off,
collar wilted and discarded, tie
stuffed into top-left-hand jacket
;| pocket, jacket itself trails on the
floor, and shirt soaked with perspiration (sweat to you) clings
firmly as a plaster to his back.
When the bell rings he has still two
to go and has put down a_ bare
twenty percent of his knowledge and
seventy of tripe irrelevant to the
subject. He may come out of the
melee with a handful of pitiable but
passable forties, depending solely
upon whether or not the marker

a light lunch of beefushrooms, apple pie and

j «
Currie,

i

Tripe: well, at first I naturally
thought of myself. But there are
others equally deserving. Bill Hagen of the Engineers is probably the |
most; there’s Jean MacDonald, Sue |
Morse, Barbara White, Dorothy
Hamilton, for Arts and Science,
plus many others; in athletics Dick
and Churchill-Smith — oh
deuce take it, you can’t remember
them all. Ken MacKinnon, Jim Mcrelationships towards the Gazette’

. Shields for doing most of ‘ie
reiting of “Masquerade” . Ted!
of Law who just about

. those dozens of |
enthusiastic freshettes and frosh
who have enlivened our campus life.

Hartz: who do you pick?

Tripe: College Spirit: It’s come
back to life again,

I hope that it’s wartime—due
Renaissance will not peter away
with peacetime incompatabilities.
Well, so long... I have to go and
see the Engineers. It seems they
thought I said they weren’t cultured.
First people I’ve ever seen to get
offended by nonsense, at least that’s
their admission.

ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

“DOUGHBOYS IN IRELAND”

“RAIDERS OF THE NORTH* WEST MOUNTED”

O

Thursday, Friday, Saturday
“ROOKIES IN BERMUDA”

GARRICK

“MISSISSIPPI”
with
Bing Crosby and W. C. Fields

Thursday,Friday, Saturday

“PRIVATE LIFE OF
HENRY VIII”

“ISLE OF FORGOTTEN SINS”

For Sporting
Goods of —
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

PIANOS —- CHURCH ORGANS

_ SHEET MUSIC - RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

n| picks up his paper when he is still | +

JACK MITCHELL'S
BARBER SHOP

| ed

eihe
“Tripe” Visits the Men
Of Today Planning

Tomorrow’s World

At the invitation of the Engineering Society “Tripe’’ paid a visit to
their draughting room on Monday,
to see culture in action. He decided
to make an interview of existing
engineer opinions as the result of
his yisit, recognizing true activity
when he saw it.

Our ‘first interview was with a
lesser light, busily draughting a foot
bridge for Shirreff Hall use, the
Engineers having muddied too many
of their cloaks a la Sir Walter Raleigh. Such an advancement on the
ordinary cultural amenities surely
demanded an “interview.

Tripe (slouching his hat over his
ear in what he regarded as true engineering fashion): What is youse
doing?

Eng.: For the love of good English, please don’t use such offensive
language around here. Here we are,
trying to keep back the tides of cesspool English from overcoming the
last refuges of culture, and you
come in here talking like that. And
take that hat off: sartorial splendor is the common lot of all mankind, most of all engineers.

Tripe: Sorry, boy.

Eng.: Now what do you want to
question me about, Tripe? I have
not much time and I like to work as
much as I can.

Tripe: Sure, what do you think of
world
of tomorrow?

Eng.: Notwithstanding the fact
that the query would be better placif you had asked what great
advancements we would expect in
human progress at the- hands of the
ever-inventive, ever-imaginative
gineer, we will still answer. it.

en=

Tripe: thank youse.

Eng.: in the first place, the engineer is primarily a builder, not an
engine of destruction. We cannot
place this fact too highly in the
statement of aims of our great profession. In the tomorrow’s world,
the engineer will show that he is the
last great hope of civilization by rebuilding what has been destroyed,
by building what hasn’t hitherto existed, by planning broad highways,
great airfields, and generally tending to the arteries without which
humanity would be at a standstill.

Tripe: thank youse.

Eng.: naughty, naughty.
pervert the King’s idiom.

Well, folks this typical example
of the outstanding engineer being
bypassed,, we came upon an Engineer examining Esquire. Now, we
thought, we’ll get nearer the true
type of Engineer, the ignorant, illiterate student who browses in e¢ulture like a bull moose running wild
in the springtime.

There he was, admiring a Varga

Mustn’t

girl while we fully expected he would.
be running through the style sec-'

tions. Needless to say, we were disappointed. We sought culture, and

Have a

we found the base crassness of untutored youth. But his very next
words set us at ease, and showed us
that here was the engineer at work.
Did he make any base suggestions
regarding the young damsel? Not
at all. He said:

The most classic example of what
an engineer would make of the ordinary materials which go _ into
womanhood, if he had a chance.
Varga is obviously an engineer.
Only an engineer could make a girl
like that! The following limbs, with
their sheer gracefulness, the firm
lines of the chin, the minute details
of the ears, the heavenly nose, the
classic eyes, and of course there are
other outstanding portions of her. I
refer particularly of
course,

to the face,

Tripe: But what about sech as
that (we said pointing).

Eng.: no, no, not that. What are
you, vulgar? — just as I thought,
simply one of those Art-corrupting
so-called cultural students.

Tripe: I’m sorry.

We went on. One student observed was occasionally running over to
his coat pocket and refreshing himself from a bottle in its inside coat|
pocket. Flashing that common means
of cultural identity, our liquor permit, in his face, we asked him for
a wee one.

Eng: Good heavens, what is that?
Not a liquor permit? For heaven’s
sake, take it away from here. Any
time I even get a hint of liquor, it
upsets me. I have what is called an
allergy for the stuff. Ah, good old
Grade A. Best cream in the city,
too,

We apologized and withdrew. But|
soon seeing a young man with a leer
on his face, we suspected a good joke |
and went over to exchange our ate
one.

Tripe: thisun ?

Didja ever hear

|It seems that space on the Ark was

limited, and Noah engaged a giraffe |
to see that the animals didn’t...

CASINO

HELD OVER!

*

“FLESH AND
FANTASY

EIGHT STARS !

ADDED

COLOR CARTOON — NEWS
“MR. CHIMP RAISES CAIN”

a.

Coca-Cola=

Pre Ones

EPP ihe Ne Tee
2 ae oe

ro ne

“Gazette”’ G oes to Cia

Eng.: interrupting — you’re not
trying to tell me an off-color story,
are you?

Tripe: innocently—don’t you like
them ?

Eng.: Good God, man. Why be
sacreligious? If you must consort
with these Arts students, at least
don’t be contaminated by them.
What you need is to see the Salvation Army. I often go to their Sunday night services. I was saved by
them several years ago. Religion is
the opiate for the wickedness which
is inherent in all men. And furthermore,’. . 
But we had enough. They spoke
such elevated language we couldn’t
understand them. (Our apologies if
we have misquoted anyone). Here
and there were little groups diseussing the relative merits of Shakespeare and George Bernard Shaw, of
the newest plays on New York and
how Hollywood would make a hash
out of them (that’s our language of
course). No drinking, and only the
brotherly interest in women. Oh
well, we met a couple of Arts students outside.

Say, didja ever hear the story of
the giraffe on the Ark? It seems
with space being limited, that
Noah gave the giraffe the job of
seeing that the animals didn’t increase. And so on. (I'd tell the
rest of this joke but we have a large
engineering audience).

S50

OXFORD |

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

“GOVERNMENT GIRL”
and “TARGET FOR BERLIN”
(Short)

Wednesday ahd Thursday

“NAUGHTY MARIETTA”
and “CALABOOSE’”

Friday and Saturday
“GUADACANAL DIARY”
News

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday

Capitol

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

Edw. G. Robinson

“DESTROYER”
*

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“Gang’s All Here”

with A LIC K i A iY io

BENNY GOODMAN
AND HIS BAND

=Eto zdorovo

(HOW GRAND!)

sed OF Weiss to pre Perens Dae ae i fiends
To our Russian and American allies it’s good news to see
our fighting planes pouring out of our plants. And it’s good
to see our flying friends respond to the everyday Canadian
invitation Have a “Coke.” It says We're with you. Coca-Cola
is as welcome to those from Moscow or Manhattan as it is in
Edmonton. And in your home, nothing is more welcomé than
Coca-Cola from your own refrigerator. Coca-Cola stands for
the pause iat refreshes—a global high-sign of friendliness.

ek We x ta Cola
~ 2

~oonnaet ae 5
ra

iy

eran ot Canada, Limited, —,

fide door
pee ag

Te’s natural ate po lag names
to acauive friendly ab =

S ont. That’ s ah ke

meraeail

A


i

i ta

So ie:

v et [Rate

Fee SS ie

Ar
SS ee ae

SA

 
 
 
   

ai DALHOUSIE CAgHTTE

| Managers Wanted
| Applications are hereby wooden’.

ed for the positions of manager and
asst.-manager of the following |
‘teams for the year 1944-45:

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
    
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
    
   
 
  
   
  
   
  

Presenting ...

 

 

 

a Take ee (seeara its close and she out- |

: ‘Dal’ ‘are receiving due recognition, such as the} 1- Football
and the Maleolm Honor Award, it is a fitting | 2. Basketball
tour own three-star-selection from the athletic| 3. Hockey —
4, Tennis
tee major sports at ‘Dal’—football, hockey and basket-|~ 5. Badminton ;
have shown qualities that raise them above their team-| ©. Swimming
them at the top of the list? Of course opinions will dif- 7. Ping-pong

 

Applications should be in writing ,
and submitted to D. S. Clark, Presi- |
| dent D.A.A.C., not later than March
23rd, 1944,

we will dust off the crystal bowl, glance back at the recdit our err! opinion of who has led the sports

3 aE shown. to ihe Gvssust agit a Sa canatian of uaHGes,
ability, “sense of the game,” speed, smoothness of style,
eellence in all departments, is Dick Currie. With this selecoe there can be any argument. Currie was brilliant at.

NOTICE

The semi-final round in the inter
 

Arena ihetwesn Peinouste and St.
The second game will be

GORDON HART

“Gordie,” although a student of
Kings University, has become a
part of Dalhousie in more ways than
one. A scholar through and through
he has held high stnadings throughout Common School and the Halifax
Academy, and on entering college
In a hard fought but very disap- | VW" the “King’s Foundation Schol
i ing’, blocking, tackling—and in no small way, due to his sterling perform- | pointing game at the Arena last. og SPAS ae ne ng i o
the team nearly whipped the axemen on both occasions. When the | | Sunday, St. Mary’s College downed | a Ui rs } pat ne oc ee
played Navy, Currie scored his first try of the afternoon on a | | Dalhousie, 7-3. The game opened | Ueno tha Wtay ta iia goal, vie ob.
‘play, and then a few seconds later went racing down the field, | almost at once with a score, at the | 1 fi di Hes 7h

icutly slawer than 2 comet, to score again and send the “Tigers” minute and a half mark, by Marty | tainec gi iv ike os a ristwadon puueetory. MacDonald for Dalhousie. For the |™4S and has the enviable faculty of

Our choice in basketball was much harder to make than in football. | remainder of the first period the | being able to earry on extra activiSurnic Ralston, as an offensive player, is in a class all by himself. As | play was slightly in favour of the | ties and still gain distinction in his
mle ’ ? Scans classes.
$ Physical Director we shall consider him as coach rather than as an | Tigers.

i ceren and so our choice: will go to a student.. The basketball

 

sh at es fe there were several good sa peopeeias |
wit Dal Drops Hockey

with his accurate place kicking; Giberson, team captain and
runner, and Barry a shifty runner and good kicker. Good gi
“were, however, rugged Dick Currie stands above them all. ‘Match iO St. Mary, S.
just about the smoothest performer in Intercoilegiate football cirn the games with Acadia Currie was at his best—fighting, kick
 

 

However, it seemed as Perhaps the most important thing
| Mary’s was facing a different team’ about Gordie is that he has excellent
‘in the next two periods. There was | qualities of leadership, strengthened
certainly no resemblance to the | | by sound judgment and determina'team which had taken King’s 9-3 the tion to finish a job once he has startweek before. The second period saw ; i ed it. In this respect he has had
‘two quick goals by St. Mary’s which | plenty of experience, having been

ani Soi agree. Some will say that none can oan hockey like ; Were countered with one for ‘Dal’ to | | President of the nice ee ee
hae Currie; other# may choose that high scorer Marty MacDonald, while | | even things up. Though there was! ore kt ont a at Bory
still others may vote for Churchill-Smith. These men are all good, but 0 Score ‘till near the end of the per-| *- irra tia cn eee
hs ae hae good performance, for the qualities of coolness, quick- | iod most of the play took place on | P Gordie proved invaluable especially |
| yi gon phe player who stands head and shoulders above all, Tiger” ice. The second period," 4 ihinghisc accoaebaienscttibaspunions

And by one of those Tronies of Fate ' rade with two more for St. Mary’s | his specialty. Carrying along his
ability to college, Gordie is Presi-.

dent of both the “King’s Quintihen ae
Debating Club,” and the “Arts and,
Science Society.” He has done

if St.

eS
oS
5
=
ot
ee
i
es
ge
Ko
oO
er}
bh
©
x!
8
oO
rg
=
0
S.
—
<8}
oe
@
@
er
~
©
*
rx}
©
KS
pL}
c
or
~
La |
co
=
@

ae
eR
Be
ey
n
or
rh
ma
—s
hn
nh
P
Lar |
<
oO
oO
wm
2s
-g
oO
—
o
mn
on
et
o
ct
SS
o
ct
oO
$9
-P

ackini idl; who! no matter what we think of him elsewhere, eh he
ake the big pads we admit his supremacy and thrill at his wizardry
kicking out all the rubber that is thrown at ‘him.

- In girls basketball the risk would be too great for one mere man to;
le oe player and place her above the rest. However, we can say

In ae third period ‘the Santamarians scored three times at fairly
well spaced intervals. Dalhousie
scored only while one of our opponents was in the penalty box.

Though Dal has been beaten twice
by St. Mary’s we’re still convinced
the former has the better team.
We will not make excuses, rather
we'll say “wait till the playoffs!”

Blood Donors Clinic in the College
and is an active member of thé C.O.
C.T., having risen from the ranks
to the position of sergeant. For
the coming year, 1944-45, Gordie
will be Senior Class Representative
on the Students Council, and VicePresident of the D.A.A.C. With his
previous experience it can be assured that both these offices of college life, in Gordie, have an able
occupant,

 

that ‘Miss hescaed proved to he: a capable coach; that “Tyan” Silver bien.
in some Beer tne ers that Anita Rosenblum and Ann

Deu talations for ‘mee wins over Acadia and Mt. A.
Ses To end our selections we would like to pick the player who has shown

 

riven the most outstanding single performance. The winner of our choice
the first instance is Alex Farquhar who won a close decision over Bob
a e. Both players started out as Intermediates on the football team
1 ; soon, showed so much improvement that they were raised into senior
pany. Farquhar, in basketball, has come a long way since the opengame, and lately has shown scoring possibilities as he rapped in a
zen. points or so in both of the last two games against Mt. A and Army.
Our choice for the outstanding single performance of the year goes to
ob Wade » when he ee a brilliant game with the Intermediate ede

Gordie shines in sport, and his
chief interests have been in swimming, football, and basketball. In
the Halifax High School swimming
meets he has held records for the
25 and 40 yards back stroke and
'free-style events. However, his
specialty is the 100 yards free style
'for which, among his many other
| trophies, he holds a foot high silver
cup donated for competition at the
é | Waegwoltic Club of which he is an
4 jactive member. In the provincial
4) swimming meets held at Acadia
University he has won many prizes,
and in 1941, as a member of the
Halifax Academy Team, he contributed greatly to their winning the
Provincial Championship. In footSR oma ball Gordie played on a City Championship Team from Morris Street
High School, and at ‘Dal’. has played on the Varsity Squad for two
vears, gaining his major felt D each
year. Also he has played senior
basketball at ‘Dal’ for two years,
gaining felt D’s for his valuable efforts there. As a reward for his
suecess in college sport Gordie was
awarded his D.A.A.C. Gold D last
Tuesday, and all those who have
played with or against him will
agree that he has earned his prize.

In short, Gordon Hart combines
the qualities that go to make a leading citizen of tomorrow—scholarship, leadership, and sportsmanship.
A great future is in store for him
and we wish him all the best of luck
in his future endeavours.

ee

  
 
 

   
 
  
  
   

THE silky strokes you
get from MIRADO’S
smooth lead wiil make
you purr like a contented cat. You won’t
be irritated by broken
pe? MIRADO will

off your mind and on
the job—always. It’s
more than a pleasure, its
areal economy.

Sc each—less in quantities

Certified with a money back
cerns in every dozen.

Some years ago a brash young
lady remarked to an up and coming
English statesman who was trying
to grow a mustache, “Mr. Churchill,
I like your mustache as little as
your politics.”

“Don’t worry, replied the new
Prime Minister, “you are not likely
to come in contact with cither.”

a —M unitoban,

le

   

Bisse men like i conta Felts! . The
brim models and feature a choice of athe pee
‘leet an EATONIA for Spring wear! | 4 7
5 “T's

se Pe Meats W ae ee ie es Wor

    
    
 
   

bee a SUR Re ee eee es

  

ae Bt 8, o3g.

Pe weed mT,
PS ie ; 7H.

 

i = J S, : ras “ '

s ees, hk ya ae Se Ae ad iil pot ced hl lle athe cal S's

 

te had,

a 
a

much in promoting the work of the |

March 17, 1944

tars was too much for the hard
Baskethall fighting collegians, and ‘Dal’ came
Fresh from last week’s victory out on the short end of the score.

over the Army the Tigers went | Line-ups:

down to defeat before the revamped: ajhousie—Pope 2, Farquhar 10,

Navy team last Wednesday to the | fart 5, Ralston 6, Dunlop 4, Green

tune of 56-30. The collegians kept 1 Giffen 2, McKelvey.

fighting up until the last whistle, Navy—Anderson 2, Wilson 11,

but were not able to count around! Cunningham 7, Lavandansky 13,

the navy basket. The sailors were | genella 6, Miller 9, Hewitt 8. Ref
sparked by Wilson, former McGill eree, Bob Mitchell.

star, who accounted for 11 of his |

team’s points and set up many a |

Seoring play. Farquhar, ‘Dal’ DIANA SWEETS
freshman star, was high scorer for TEA ROOM

Lhe Tigers with ten points, 370 Spring Garden Road
3-9754

We , Cater to Collegians

 

The sailors took the lead early in
the game and kept it until the end.
The ‘Dal’ players were unable to
halt the Navy onslaught which kept

 

 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE

 

the seore mounting higher and as
higher. Nevertheless the Tigers | ee eee
played ‘some good basketball and | THOMAS WALLACE
worked through their opponents SONS AND DAUGHTERS
guard for many well-earned bas- SIGHT SPECIALISTS
kets. But the experience of Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax

the |

!
’

Phone 3-6881

 

Follow the rest of the boys
for your Footwear to

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX

SHANE’S SHOE STORE

Phone 3-7133 397 BARRINGTON ST.  3-9144

 

O
in DALHOUSIE
Halifax, Canada WELCOME

 

TO
BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

Host to the travelling .

public since 1858

A Good Address

C)

i

i Ce Carleton

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years.

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

Covered with
Neilson’s smooth
French-style Chocolate

 

wo

~*~

ae

 

 

   
    
     
      
       
       

    
 
  
 

   
   
