, v3

 

ay

    
   
    
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
    
 

  
 
  

 

 

Dalhousie

THE OLDEST COLLEGE

  

   
    

   

 

PAPER IN AMESICA

 

VOL. LXXVI

 

 

CAMPUS
CLIPPINGS

By EUGENE MERRY 
 

Quartermaster Sgt. (to new recruit): “Well, the coat fits anyway.
Try the pants on. Why they fit,—
what the dickens, you must be de
formed. 4

* * *

These Meds Have a Hard Time
“There goes,” sighed the doctor,
“the only woman that I ever loved.”

_ “Why didn’t you marry her?”

“Couldn’t afford to. She’s my

_ best patient.”

a7, eS

me of the Butter Buyer

“Don't get a pound much any
more.”

Teacher: “Tom, spell straight?”

Tom _ (prospective engineer)—
“S-t-r-a-i-g-h-t.”

Teacher: “Correct, now what does
it mean?”

Tom: “Without soda.”

Pe ae te

U.B.C. Students Stage Riots
Amoung ’Selves

Vancouver, B.C. (C.U.P.)—Student riots between the three faculties at the University of British
Columbia broke out last week,
touched off by Arts ’46 elections.
Fighting began between Arts and
Science in the Arts common room
and spread throughout the campus
in a day. The disturbance was so
widespread that lectures were closed
and the two and two complaints
were sent in from the faculty. Evidence points to an organized group
of students on the campus who are
attempting to stir up _ trouble.
Fights have been carried out according to orders from some “authority.” .

* * *
Poorer Quality of Rubber Used,
Is Fault

She: I simply adore that funny
step of yours. Where did you pick
it up?

He:

Funny step, Burhan: I’m

losing my garter.

* *
aoa
Exams, are just like women;
This statement is quite right—

'They ask you foolish questions

And keep you up all night.
Hh *
ON, B. to above. Voice over the
phone: “Pop, guess who just got

kicked out of college?” a we

She was a good little girl, as far |

as good little girls go; and as far as
geod little girls go, she went——.

a

_ Merry Christmas and best of lack
in the coming New Year!

ALUMNI ASSOC. TO
“HOLD SMOKER JAN 21

\ The Alumni Association of Dal
¥ Bh ae: University, wishing to get

closer touch with the present
dent body, is. completing ar
  
 

contingent |

First Monthly

Meeting of
Classics Club

Modern Greece was the subject)
and Dr. Roebuck, the speaker at the
first monthly meeting of the Classics Club held Friday evening, Nov.
25th, at the home of Dr. A. K. Griffin, Studley Avenue.

The speaker spent. some time in
Greece before the war, engaged in
archeological work, and presented
an interesting description of village
life and customs, based on firsthand observations.

A considerable gathering was on
hand to hear Dr. Roebuck and contributed to a general question and
discussion period on various topics
which lasted well into the night.

The decision to choose club officers for the year resulted in the
election of J. C. McLaren as President and Constance Brown as Secretary. Major Logan proposed,
with the unanimous consent of the
members, that Dr. Griffin be considered Honorary President of the
Classies Club in as much as the society was first started and has been
largely maintained through his interest and co-operation.

A light supper, perhaps the most
enthusiastically received event of
the evening brought the highly successful meeting to a close.

The Classics Club plans to meet
monthly after the Christmas recess
and urges all students taking senior
classes in Classics at the University
to attend.

Reduced O. T. C.
Hours for

2nd, 3rd Year Meds

According to information received
from the Dal.-Kings 0.T.C. Orderly
Room, medical students at the
University, have had their O.T.C.
hours reduced from six to three
hours per week. This action followed the complaints of the first
and second year Meds. a few weeks
ago against their long hours of
training.

Thus all medical students of military fitness in their first and second
years of medicine will have the reduced training periods, regardless of
the amount they have taken before.

Students in third, fourth and
fifth year Medicine will not be affected, because under accelerated
wartime courses in Medicine, they
have entered the R.C.A.M.C. as privates.

Seven weeks of successful training have now been completed Major
Faulkner stated and Saturday, Dec.
4th, will mark the last parade of
the term. Some platoons of the
have completed their
periods on the rifle range. After
the new year, the T.0.E.T. tests
will begin a tests in elemen
  
 
 

  

HALIFAX, N. 8., DECEMBER 3, 1943

 

Consul Outlines
U.S.S.R. System
Of Education

“The high ideals of humanism are
the ideals of Soviet education. We
have no tolerance for mysticism;
education must be scientific’ said
Viee-Consul Kutsenko of the U.S.
S.R. in an address to the Haliburton
(ub of King’s College last Saturday evening. The meeting, which
was held at Pine Hill and presided
over by the Club’s president, Dr.
Burns Martin, heard Mr. Kutsenko
describe the great advances made
by the Soviet Government in the
field of public instruction. In 1914,
the illiterarcy rate in Russia ran as
high as seventy percent. In 1943 it
is now less than fifteen percent.
After the Revolution, compulsory
education was enforced not only for
children, but for illiterate adults as
well, and fines were imposed upon
those who failed to attend “school.”

Universities and schools in the
Soviet Union have multiplied since
October, 1917. If a boy or girl
wishes to attend college, they may
if they pass the entrance examinations. The Soviet student is free to
choose any college or profession he
wishes. Each of the Socialist Republics has its own school board.
There is no Peoples’ Commissar for
Education in Moscow, although = a
general committee overseas and approves the courses laid down by the
individual public instruction administrations.

The long strides the peoples of
the Soviets have taken during the
last twenty-five years in the realm
of the mind have added immeasurably to the physical, technical and
spiritual strength of the country n
resisting the Nazi aggressor, concluded the Soviet Vice Consul at
Halifax in his address to King’s literary society.

Arts and Science
To Stage
Post Xmas Hop

Here is the mews that everybody
has been waiting for the Arts
and Science Society is not dead...
it’s alive, and really coming. out
with some real action... yessir
folks, we are goimg to have a big
dance, a really big dance, the campus dance of the year. Listening
in on conversations all over the campus in the past few years, the
topic, immediately following an
Arts and Science meeting, has been

 

“What is the Arts and Science So
ciety doing for us?” .True, at times
ii was rather a hard thing to find
out, without going to the executive
and asking them. But, this year,
the society is coming through with
some real entertainment, both for
its own members and for the rest
of the campus as well. °

Members of Dalhousie Alumni can
vouch for the success of these affairs in past years, and it is up to
us to make a success of the “Arts
and Science Hop” of 1943-44.

The date has been set for the gala
affair on Jan: 14th, with Jerry

. Naugler and his nine piece orches2 ev rent | tra i in attendance. The price of ad
: will: be a measly _buek4

  
  

<i

|

 

DOUBLE WIN FOR DAL, KINGS

 

St. Thomas

Cercle Francais

The second meeting this year
Le Cercle Francais was held
Friday afternoon, Nov. 25, at
Shirreff Hall.

The reunion was marked by a
large attendance of members who
co-operated in presenting an ehtertaining program of comic
readings and dialogues. A number of French songs and appropriate Christmas carols were
ung aS was well-intended but
highly unsuccessful group rendition of LaMarsellaise.

Plans were discussed on the
possible presentation by the
French Club, of a short playlet
next term, and after light but
welcome refreshments, the festivities were brought to a close.

Members are asked to bring
their “cotisations” for the year to
the next meeting or deposit them
with the Secretary-Treasurer,

of

 

E

a

ourney
For Education’

The odyssey of Mareo Polo must
seem like the trite excursions to a
next-door neighbour to borrow a cup
of sugar compared to the experiences
of two students recently enrolled at
Mount Allison University. Mary
Joliffe and Bruce Dickinson, these
two students, set out from China in
June and after travelling tortured
and circuitous routes, recently arrived in Sackville.

From Chentu, came Miss Joliffe.
Leaving in June, she has travelled
by all things mechanized except submarines. Driving by transport truck
to Chungking, an eight hour plane
trip by American plane took them
to Calcutta. Wartime conditions
made the use of oxygen sparing:
“We went as high as 20,000 feet:
they only gave you some if you
were blue around the gills.”

R.A.F. boys entertained the party
she was with while in Calcutta;
then she got temporarily knocked
out for a week with tangi or yearly
fever in its visit to India,

Her next trip was by the Kentucky mules of the world’s sealanes,
the Liberty ship. After dangerous
passage through U-boat infested
seas (in some cases the U-boats
were imaginary, but sent everybody
hopping, anyway), the ship arrived
at Panama, and then to Baltimore.
From then on it was an anti-climax
to what had been high adventure.

Bruce Dickinson left Chengtu, and
his story parallels Miss Joliffe’s. He
is a science student at the uni€ersity, and four of his family have
also been at Mount A. before him. |

a

twenty-five, and that’s not very
much for a dance of this type. So,
what do you say gang, are we all
rolling out for the big time, on Jan.
14 ? ? 2? ? We get back to work
on the fifth and that gives us over
a week to get our dates all lined
up for Hop ... no trouble there,
eh gang?

  

ithe arguments of the
| team while, in his rebuttal,

  

cBATERS

No. 9

 

elif Mary’s Meet Defeat

EE RT Ne ee

 

SODALES DOWNS FIRST FOES
IN M.1.D.L. COMPETITION

Dalhousie was victorious in the first intercollegiate debate
of the year last Saturday night when representatives of Sodales

Debating Society met and defeated St. Thomas College.

The

debate was held at St. Thomas and the subject. for discussion
was “Resolved that it would be to the interest of Canada to

become a part of the United States.”

The Sodales debaters were

Don Harris and Neil McKelvey, while St. Thomas was represented by Roy Creamer of St. Stephen, N. B., and William J.

Mahurter of Jersey City, New Jersey.

St. Thomas upheld the

affirmative of the resolution while Dalhousie argued on the side

of the negative.

Don Harris spoke first for Dalhousie and presented the economic
aspect of the question supporting
his arguments with government statistics and. other authoritative
facts. He traced the probable results of the proposal for union upon
Canadian industry and _ foreign
trade, emphasizing his remarks by
pointing out that union woffld mean
the exploitation of our resources
rather than their utilization for
Canadian citizens.

Neil McKelvey discussed the political and social factors involved,
arguing that great differences exist
between the political and judicial
systems of the two countries and
that, by and large, Canada’s system
is superior. He further stressed
the danger of and influx of American gangsterism if such a political
union were achieved. McKelvey
also laid emphasis upon the nationalist aspect, pointing out that Canada had now reached an equal political footing with all the other independent nations in the world and
this would be a great deal to give
up even if some economic advantages were possible thereby.
from St. Thomas
laid their main stress upon the
economic apect, discussing free
trade benefits and allied arguments.
They also stated that national sovereignties and interests would have
to be subordinatede if world peace
is to be assured and that union with
the United States is a step in this
direction.

The St. Thomas members, however, were quite unable to destroy
Dalhousie
Don
Harris capably threw very severe
doubts upon the validity of his opponents arguments. The decision
was awarded to Dalhousie by a vote
of two to one by the judges.

The judges at this debate were E. |
R. T. Heustis, editor of the Chatham |
newspaper; K. Loggie, a former

The speakers

student of Dalhousie, and FI. Lt. T. |

 
     
 
    
  

King’s Defends Private
Radio Ownership

Monday night, the University of
King’s College, flinging its hat into

| the rhetorical ring after an absence

of several years, emerged victorious from a violent verbal struggle
with St. Mary’s College to chalk up
its first triumph in this year’s MAI.
D.L. Trophy debates, thus bringing
the second victory to the DalKing’s campus within three days.
The subject, “Resolved: Radio Control, Operation, and Ownership in
Canada Should be Private,” was
stolidly defended by Kingsmen
Fred Taylor, 44, and Doug. Rodgers, 46, while with flashing rhetoric
the resolution was attacked by
John Lynch and Ed. Chisholm, -s
the Saints.

The debate, held at Pine Hill, was
very well attended, signifying the
new interest in the Quinctilian Debating Society which has suddenly
sprung up in U.K.C. Judges were
Dean Willis, of Dal. Law School;
Rev. Ian MacKinnon, Dean of Pine
Hill Residence, and Mr. Justice M.
B. Archibald. Professor R. Maxwell was chairman,

 

Duffey, instructor at the Chatham
airport.

MeKelvey and Harris returned to
Dalhousie with glowing accounts of
the royal reception they were given
at St. Thomas College. Even
though this is a small school in
comparison to Dalhousie, their hospitality apparently experiences no
bounds.

 

IN SYMPATHY

To Dalhousie Med. student
John MacKay, the Gazette extends its deepest sympathy on
his recent sad bereavement.
His father, George W. MacKay
of New Glasgow, passed away
Friday.

 
  

ri .& :
i Reece eae eee
'

mys re ee ; i 1
ea BODY tr iol mie fe omy LES

- . x i &7.

=i ’ uF a as - '

aN oe of he Pus

is is the precious life-blood of a master spirit”—Milton
a _ ‘There are both good and bad books, and there
ween. Facetiously we may say, that the matter

conditions ranging from hypertension to anaemia.
licat he both of the pee of their authors, and the

 
    
   
 
 
   

: of cch We are ever on the euicot for books which may be
tiny but growing sain The ene of the aaiacaniaini of these

ny oo ees ee owe their Beatin jue to seavenging, are
two volu nes (Volumes II and Ill) of “The Lady’s Poetical Magazine, or
, cia ‘of British Poetry.” Volume I is dated 1781, volume II, 1782.
Pe. The place of origin of the magazine (really a series of books issued an") nually) was London and it was printed for Harrison & Co., No. 18 Pater- noster Row.

Those porsina Ae are familiar with books and book-making can

  
   
 
   
 
 
  

“date” boc ks fairly accurately by external features. The amateur look, ing at at. hese two volumes, notes the leather binding, the plain covers, and
. the sin simple graceful design, stamped in gold on the backs. On the inside

of th » front cover of exch volume there are affixed identical Root

qe
LEON bay
4 ¥. ey
fn i +

he i ok-plate, Silas shaded! in laine) is Pa eneveiat of the piiokpla 8 of the reign of George III, during which “The |Lady’s Poetical
M awazine”’ was. printed. Turning to the back of each volume we find a
t ab J ble of eontents and a list of authors. We note here, for the first time,

 

 

te ne eg? a on the left on of the letter ona: while that of the ery
oct yon nde ‘sides. of, the stem of the letter. If we had nothing else

   
 

oh Gea me A "Riphuncae> “itieey On The Death of a Young Mois » “The
hays Trials of Virtue,” “Blegy,” “Evening Address To A Nightingale,”
' -*Cruelty and Lust,” “Invitation To The Feathered Race.” Noting such
| titles, and relating them to our knowledge of English literature, we know
; almost instinctively, that these volumes contain a record of eighteenth
We century thought and living.
i Big A small engraving at the front of Volume II gives us more than a
| s hint of what we may expect to find between the covers of these books.
i ' In the engraving we see a pastoral scene framed by two snarleld and
stunted trees, which look like dwarf Japanese pines. In the left foreground are two young ladies dressed in the long voluminous gowns of
the century, which add below what they lose at the top. Both wear
shawls, hinting of a strong moral feeling, The young lady on the left
is carrying a magazine, which recalls the “boudoir literature” of the
period. Both girls exhibit the fantastic hair styles of the day—hair
- combed up from the forehead into a veritable tower, and then cascading
down to the nape of the neck, and decorated with ribbons. In the background, asleep in the shade of another fantastic tree lies a shepherd, and
‘such a shepherd! This particular shepherd wears a tricorne, short coat
and knee-breeches, and below the breeches exhibits a gartered, wellhosed, shapely calf! Near their sleeping master feed a flock of very con
 

 

” ventional sheep. From a most unconvincing mountain in the background
4 _igs seen ascending, a winged horse! Engravings illustrating a number of
*-—s the poems are placed throughout these books. They are of aid in helpli ait “ing: one to eatch something of the tone of the age, the neoclassicism, the
ne arti: lity, the incipient romanticism of the eighteenth century.
ne | pening Volume II we find that the first poem was written by the
Mt Bee Ss Sabin, who is nameless. It is entitled “Tbina and Lothario, or The Fatal
+ -Seduction—A Moral Tale.” In this very moral tale, so characteristic of
Miyie.. \- : . .

hy a part of the period, we find examples of poetical artifices—the heroic
_ couplet, poetical diction, and outraged and exaggerated passion. The

invocation smacks of sentimentality.
f “Ye British Fair, whose gentle bosoms know .
i Bie be y) Eo share luxurious in another’s woe.”

The en apparently cannot permit himself to say “birds” but must

| draw ‘on poetical diction and write “ the warblers of the vocal

_ grove.” Thoughts of an immoral nature are expressed by leaving blanks

in the lines, followed by such exclamations as “Horrid thought!”
The heroine of the poem, one Albina, has been wronged.
obviously remorse-stricken, she throws herself into a river, and is rescued

(! | ery conveniently by a nobleman, the father of the man who has wronged

pis her. The editor describes very minutely Albina’s actions as she returns

Oh ba consciousness. | ‘He conclude his description:

me beta _ “Now the keen anguish of Albina’s pains,

i Wakes. ev’ry nerve, and spreads thro’ all her veins,

Balt ne i teres groans—she raves—she heaves her llab’ring breast—

; \Gnashes’ un teeth—and madly grasps her vest—

| Phen in a moment quite compos’d appears,

amo ies aad drowns. each feature in a flood of tears.”

ae ends his ‘moral. tale by causing Albina and the man who

red 1 her to dic and how fey died! Before dying the villain ‘out

Ria ;

ee sbileeas he ray’d—he smote the echoing floor—

And from his hapless’ head the flowing ringlets tore!”

of the poems: are not quite as bad as this one. We find in, these

wes good iia! by Se ae rave i ‘oseneuiey Shenstone,

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
    
    
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

Very

 

 

 

  

nes poetieal nee = ae lehetwh iui thease to books.
re find a good roe of personifica
    

| eighteenth century.

  
 

  
  

sic |, Gazette

aN if ‘AS the @llege by the Sea

Founded 1869 — “The Oldest ais Paper in America”

The views expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
the author; it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of
the Student Body.

 

GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44

Pediter-In-OHIES i. ee bole see caw sd Sheds Win etetsly. bela tale Gale Ted Shields
ESUSIGSS OBO EOE | ss) ie' a Siu bin jis kee via hie ak Walle Ose v0. eke Reais. Kevin Barry
News Editor ....... BO Ll ue etaMe unre Ua lbs esd ele a's Jim McLaren
FGARUTE PSUMAGOES Ss 5. e\s/ 44 5/6 & 60 as lave whe Bob MecCleave, Eileen Phinney
RIOR LEAT Gib icls 1. 1h CUTIE uti cen Bill Pope
PAPEOAT IE SMRBEOT Op. UL Re UM gy eB sue ain Lou Collins
PROUD PRM ON EO a no) ds gies Whee aU Rat whee! K, Tetivey. E. MacDonald
NE CORY es Paty woh IRIS aE SOs IE i Laurie Smith
RAE i aRPNL SR SCOCTHR IIIS ari ie la' ol SR BALE ld cla ts Ul ca alles ts cis John Hibbetts
Reporters: Jim Campbell, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley

Bob Kimball, Betty Atkins, Marg Morrison

 

 

eal

PLAYER'S.

icniin or FAILD

As this, the final issue of 1943, goes to press, the time
seems ripe for a little mid-year stock- taking on Dalhousie acti_| Vities and progress to date. With’ a grasp of the university's
‘| accomplishments during the first term, we wil! have a basis on
which to establish more concrete plans, and hopes, for the
second.

First place in any university naturally goes to intellectual
accomplishments, to knowledge gained and used effectively, to
the strides taken by students’ ‘minds after two months of study
under some of the country’s best professors. But the totalling
of this sum hardly falls within the department of the Gazette:
instead, a far more serious judgment will soon be meted out
by far weightier judges as Examination Week dawns (and don’t
say we didn’t warn you!)

What has Dalhousie done in other fields, those extraclassroom activities which may have greater influence in postuniversity life than anything culled from musty tomes of

NAVY OCUT 2¢

IGARETTES

 

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

  

FOR YOUR
CHRISTMAS LIST

outmoded opinions? For in learning to live in mutual coopera- UL It may not be polite to hint
tion with the rest of humanity, both sides of college life, the but your family might forclassroom and the campus, are very necessary. DALHOUSIE give you with Christmas
The keynote of the University year was set in the Presi- approaching.

dent’s opening address, in which he stressed the value of Liberal WELCOME

Education as the background of all knowledge, culturel and ) Very delicately — you
technical. We believe the spirit of his words has been faith- might mention your prefully carried by students and professors through this term. TO ference for a Birks Chal
lenger—a fine watch at a
popular price.

In the Students’ Council, the year opened with the crash
of Tom Patterson’s resignation as President, but the untried

BLAKELEY’S

solons showed themselves well-deserving of the confidence their ‘
fellow students had expressed by electing them. With com- a abe eae eee Henry Birks & Sons
petence worthy of far more experienced governors, the con- 2 Spring Garden toa

stitutional difficulties were quickly bridged, and Ken McKinnon
raised to the Presidential chair. The succeeding record of the
Council has followed the standard set in their fine start. Showing themselves awake and cognizant of student needs and
opinions, the student directors have given future Councils a
stirring example.

Perhaps the greatest forward step taken by the Council,
was the establishment of the Blood Donors Society. Already
nearly 200 students have given life to some soldier on the
world’s battlefronts; after Christmas, plans are already laid for
an even greater effort. Students and Council deserve congratulations for this truly worthwhile effort.

Student societies have shown more life that seemed possible
after the slump of the last several years. The Glee Club
presented a very successful Frosh Show, and has been carrying
on an extremely valuable series of lectures on drama. Sodales
came through with a sweeping victory over St. Thomas to take
the first step towards the M.I.D.L. trophy, after having taken
part in its first broadcast, a radio forum held over CJFX in
October. The Arts and Science Society is still mouldering
along, but has come out with plans for an Arts and Science
Yance early next term which may revive a spark of interest in
he society; other faculty organizations, Medicine, Engineering,
Law, and Commerce are still functioning the former “duo with
par ticular success.

In the sports field, Tiger fans were disappointed when their
favorite sons could not carry off the intercollegiate pennant;
nevertheless, the quality of the games, particularly the two
battles with the Axemen when the latter’s League record was
nearly thrown to the unconsoling winds, left Dalhousie with a
pride in their team that even league leadership could hardly
have increased. Girls sports, ping-pong, badminton, and ground
hockey, have been more than notable in their successes.
Prospects for hockey and basketball are bright, once again
proving it takes more than a war to keep Dal sports down.

Altogether, the first term should, we feel, be pronounced a
marked success. But we believe all these things are surface
indications of something deeper, something that has~ been
almost absent from the campus for a long time, that dormant
intangible it was commonly believed only a residence and the
post-war college could’ revive—we believe this first term of the
1943-44 college year may well be remembered as the term when
Dalhousie spirit first stirred in its grey fluff cocoon and made
ready to burst forth in its full power and beauty. In the next
term, all students must help to make it so.

a a A a ha a nin Sen Ahern cine pee ae ise eas en ee encase iedecls

We find examples of the “Graveyard School.” Dr. Ogilvie in his
“Ode To Melancholy” puts it nicely when he writes:

“Say, gentle mourner, in yon mouldy vault,

Where the worm fattens on some scepter’d brow,
Beneath that roof with sculptur’d marble fraught,
Why sleeps unmovy’d the breathless dust below?”

But all is not convention and gloom. There are poems of rich content. There are apt phrasings. How apt was a Mr. Shepherd in his “Ode
To The Atheist” when he writes:

“Some vain hypothesis admit,

The specious cobweb—work of wit.”
We find a light touch too. The description of the birching of a young
lad in Shenstone’s “Schoolmistress” cannot but oceasion a sly smile, For
those who smile a slyer smile “Phillis or The Progress of Love” by Dean
Swift will fill the bill. A poem entitled “Simkin” by a Dr. Kenrick shows
that even fairies could be handled well, even in pseudo-classical age.

Many of us have,the idea that the eighteenth century was a rather
dull age, with its neo-classicism, its artificial coating and its immorality.
Yet if we study it closely we realize that in spite of its artificial trappings, there is inherent in it a purity and a firmness which at first we
did not suspect. This impresses itself upon us more firmly, when we
realize that the twentieth century was really born in and out of the

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

L

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

Limited

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.

    

Limited
I’'resh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

     
  

  

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

 

Halhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship,
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: rae: Pacinos. Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leadi
ca &, leading to degrees

Courses—preparato to Professional Facul
Course in Public A istration, er

Many valuable eceatee on entrance and through
the courses,

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

average about $160
in the B.Sc. course, ' a year.

about $190 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

  
¥ } a
ee Ay: Ms
pe esa, ea

| way c OBSERVE CHRISTMAS, 1943

pA For most of us the original flavour of Christmas festivity has disap_| peared. But for the majority of us, the true and integral meaning of '
| Christmas has grown consistently stronger, until we have derived from
it a more enriching satisfaction than we ever knew in childhood. “We
realize now more than ever before, just how much the world needs that
| unfulfilled message of “Peace dn earth, good-will toward men”! For it
is still a message whose inner warmth, simplicity, and strength reaches
out to all humanity.

Throughout the utter chaos and bleakness of this sorrowing world,
there is still a light left burning, and it is up to all peoples struggling
toward it, to show that they recognize it, and place infinite trust in its
far-reaching rays.

That is why our fighting men in every part of this war-torn world,
whether in fox-hole, hospital or brightly-lighted mess-hall, will continue |
te observe, as well as they can, the traditions of the past, and why we at
home will join with them in this anniversary of Christ’s birth.

rive her rine ae
‘ Lor hope for
1 for she’s very popular .
uy her aa T'll use the phone
t now if if she’ll be at home.

| y mouth was ? ‘open for quick protest

w y en no better than all “those rest”).
mming a tune I considered it lightly
th Sout that the future looked more brightly.

Dow he came with a smile on his pan .
ye 4 “Ah ny righ Sor you're a lucky man
-She’s that night but you’ve cause to elate
ie Hay For she says that for you wicalay extinguish the date.”

te i¥ felt like a leaf caught up ) in a breeze For that light which shines invisible is the flame of our inward spirit,
At last a girl that me Seoul please without which there can be only a void of despair.

Ah life is so swell and pals are so great, * Whatever the future may hold, one thing is certain—we shall need

(But that was before I saw my fate.) the inner spirit of Christmas as a symbol of our dearest and truest

| Bes values. We shall need also the firm belief that wherever, even in the

ne ote pe fee bee 2 “hos darkest corner of the universe, there gleams the faintest flicker of hope;

oh ak, Tet eat hardly raat where there is the slightest shred of faith or trace of love, there also Join the Picobac Fraternity. It means

pleasant hours in every day—hours of mild,

will abide the Spirit of Christmas forever and forever.
To get a look at my lucky date...

I gave the addres -and away we flew

To the swank department on the avenue
Up the driveway and around the bend

I was sorry I hadn’t a eard to send .

I rang the bell and straightened my ‘tie

And Sap stood the maid with the twinkling eye

ae (and what a leg)
Scarce IT recovered from the sight of the gam
When her mother approached to “look over THIS man”.
‘She wasn’t particular for she seemed delighter . . .
J felt that in time I’d be lorded or knighted,

Our talk was cut short when I looked up there
And saw her floating down the stair aM

First glance said “Must be a mirage”

OH NO...

*twas a barrage ‘Balloon with my corsage .

But I wasn’t one to be lost in a game

So I decided then to make use of a plan...

We arrived at the ball in record time

And I held her tightly from the stags in line
While dancing by with a grinning gal

Was the guy I’d formerly called my pal.

Out on the floor she came with a glide

Walked over my foot and down the side,

I struggled and sweated, raged to the core

And tried to show her not my foot but the fioor .

I pushed and I strained and I yanked her in place
I led her but firmly out on the terrace

We spent the eve in a lover’s tryst

She sat yards away with a clenched fist...

I wasn’t regretful, just prayed that the boys»
Would notice we’d stayed quite long out of doors .
The ball was soon ending, my face was so smug

In front: of my pal I gave Beulah a hug

His surprise was a thing o’er which I elate

And I knew on the morrow the quiz would be great .

Next day he said nothing, just looked very vague

As I asked for the number of “that lovely young maid”,
But the girl I referred to was nary a ham

But the downstairs maid with the beautiful gam...

DEAR
AUNT SUSIE .

Dear Aunt Susie:

I have just finished reading a
book on “To whom to give at
Christmas and What.” I read the
book, thinking it would solve my
problem, but it didn’t, so will you?
I have a girl,—at least I think she’s
my girl, and my question is, should
I give her a Christmas present, and
if so what? Please remember that
there also is no surplus of that
“ereen stuff” around either. Per
Sa RAEN

haps I should tell you, that I have |
known her only since September, |

and as far as our relationship goes,
we went to a couple of dances, a
football game, and two shows. She
has had me into the Hall several
evenings, and on the whole I think
she likes me. I saw her knitting
a nice pair of socks, and when I
asked her who they were for, she
shyly laughed and said her father,
but personally I don’t think he’d
ever wear those bright colors. I
have asked the other guys around
the residence what they were doing
about their girls this year but they
seem as confused as I am. Please
let me know what you would advise.
Y’d hate to have her give me a
Christmas present, and me _ not
have any for her.
A Sophmore Shopper.
P.S.—I thought of flowers, but
she doesn’t live in the city, and
| they mye. her hay-fever besides.

* * *

‘Dear Sophmore Shopper:

My Personal Shoppers’ Service
| has: had t rat pen this year

“Tur silky strokes you
get from MIRADO'’S
smooth lead will make
you purr like a contented cat. gon won't

¢ mind Oia on

ways. It’s
oe dine pleasure, its
a real economy.

5c each—less in quantities

‘with a money back 1
guarantee in every dozen.

ts titled
ti ‘ Home. 202 a f
ee uaa! The Friction depart-|

—K.E.B.

THE CHRISTMAS DOLL

_The scene was a very lonely wood,
in the middle of which stood a very
shabby old shack. Inside this shack
the faint glow from a small, meagre fire fell on two people, one a
man, the other a woman. It was
Christmas Eve. Tomorrow would
be the festive day and they did so
want to make their little one’s
Christmas happy. But they were
too poor to bring her even a decent
méal. Both gazed with longing at
the little girl of nine who was so
pretty for her age. Finally they
went to bed.

The next morning dawned bright
and clear. The snow on the ground
and on the trees was so white and
clear that it seemed as if no one in
the world could be unhappy. — Inside
the eabin, however, all was lonely
and bare and there was little happiness, ' "

The day passed on. About four
in the afternoon there came a knock
on the door and the little girl answered. When she opened the door,
no one was to be seen. Slowly turning to go in she noticed a parcel lying beside the step. She could hardly believe her eyes. What would a
parcel be doing at their door? Surely there was some mistake! She
bent down and there written clearly on the parcel was her name.
Very excitedly she carried it into
the cabin. At first she was too excited to do anything. 'When = she
finally opened it, there lay a beautiful doll with fair flaxen curls and
blue eyes. Breathlessly she lifted
it up and held it at arm’s length.

£

your friend does not care for flowers, and | understand from the best
circles that candy is going to be
searce this year. Even so, it probably wouldn’t be good for her figure. You could give her silk stockings, which I am sure she would appreciate, but they are very scarce
too, and you probably don’t know
the correct size. Perfume is always
very acceptable, and comes in all
sizes and smells, but it is generally
very expensive, and you mentioned
that money ‘was also a_ problem.
Initialed handkerchiefs, they come
in white and colored linens, make a
choice gift, especially if nicely
bexed, but since the war, Ireland

‘has been sending us no linen, so con
sequently there are no Irish linen
handkerchiefs. A real good fountain pen would make a lovely gift,
but they’re searce too, and if she
has reached college she surely must
have one, if only for appearance
sake. Speaking of socks, I think
you are doing wrong in supposing
they might be for you. Girls have
a habit of leading men to believe
the things they want them to believe, and you should see the socks
my father wears. My advice to you
is to go down town and pick out a
very nice Christmas Card, if the
government regulations on paper
haven’t made them searce_ too!

After all, you’ve only known her|

since September,
Christmas!

‘wait until next

Sincerely,

Aunt Susie «

Customer: “Have you a book en-|
the hielo of ee | |
| “DuBARRY WAS A LADY”

‘Man,

the other side, sir.”

Oh! could it be true?
ly hers?

The little girl played often with
that doll, for it was the only real
plaything she had ever known. She
was always very careful not to leave
it lying about. One day, however,
about three years later the doll was
carelessly dropped. The little girl,
when she saw what had happened,
knelt down and through saddened
tears carefully picked up the pieces.

As she was gathering the last few
pieces she found an old parched
piece of paper. She ran to her
mother and showed it to her, who
unfolded the paper and read it
aloud. It was a will, the will of the
little girl’s grandfather!

Many years ago the old man had
sworn he would never speak to his
daughter again for marrying
against his wishes. For revenge he
said he would hide his will and it
should go to whoever should find it.

How did the will come to be in
the doll? The grandfather always
kept the doll in memory of his
daughter. He put his will in it and
when he died, the doll was given
away.

When Christmas came weeniia the
owner of the doll wished the little
girl to have it, never dreaming it
contained a will. In this way the
will finally fell to its rightful owners.

The little girl and her parents
never again suffered an unhappy
Christmas, and they never forget to
make other happy too.

| —N.G.N,

Was it real
ARTS
AND SCIENCE

Hear ye, hear ,ye and be it
known, other faculties‘ may think
Arts and Science are asleep, but little escapes our eyelids drooping
from lack of sleep and: study—no
remarks, please! Our eyes popped
epen wide when Kay W. received a
dead light bulb from a certain prelaw student. Don’t be so suggestive Les, even though you may prefer the dark.

Two Barry’s dine at the hall
these days—wonder which of them
spends most of his time at Fader’s
(some drugstore cowboy)? And
which one loves Knight-life ?

Meanwhile the voice of Arts and
Science, the most intelligent and
respected voice of the campus—are
ye ‘listenin’ ?—advises those librarylovers,—subtle, aren’t we,—to go
straight home after closing hours.
The time is drawing nigh.

Just one more dig before we go:
has Mackie another “crush”? Does
his psychology class help him any
in his love life? “Vivez” Arts and
Science,

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“CONSTANT NYMPH”
Charles Boyer — Joan Fontaine

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

RED SKELTON

cool sweet converse with a pipe —that companion which enlivens company and enriches solitude.

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

ee ne Sa ee

GIFT SOCKS
.. AT EATON’S

HOOSE socks as gifts this Christmas. . . . They
always make welcome gifts and you .can select
them from a group that offers a range of patterns
and colours. Visit EATON’S Men’s Hosiery counter
when you’re out shopping this Christmas Season!
Priced at, pair 50¢ to 1.00.

BHATON’S Main Floor

¢T. EATON

iTIME S

% O

hia ae

0.8. eS Sa

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday
“WAKIKI WEDDING”
Bing Crosby - Martha Raye

*

Wednesday - Thursday .- Friday

“DESPERADOES”
“SO THIS IS WASHINGTON”

CASINO

ALL WEEK!

ADOLPHE
MENJOU

MARTHA
SCOTT

‘ HI - DIDDLEDIDDLE”
—All Laughs!

*

Shows at 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“QUEEN OF BROADWAY”
“SHERIFF OF SAGE VALLEY”
*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“PORT OF MISSING GIRLS”
“DAYS OF OLD CHEYENNE”

Capitol
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“Bombadier’’

PAT O’BRIEN
RANDOLPH SCOTT
ANN SHIRLEY

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“Watch On The
Rhine’’
BETTE DAVIS
PAUL LUCAS”

 
  

   

ee aoa on—of that alia Bre, English educated, journalistic

 

 
 
  

 

_ Every so often, Dalhousie is fay_ ured by ¥ student who comes from
another country and brings to the
campus aé definite contribution.
_ This week it is our pleasure to prea sent Pat Hollis, who for the past
few years has blended her English
i i training and charms in our Cana( is dian environment.
fie a Pat’s home is in Reigate, Surrey,
ey me and there she attended Roldean and
Ey - Brighton schools. It was at Brightmm, ee on that her athletic career started
Wo and she was active in tennis, gym.,
4 or swimming, and dancing.

| Lacrosse w4s_ enthusiastically
a played at Brighton and this young
star was on the first school team.
In the summer vacation the netted
racket was changed for a cricket
‘bat and in this typically English
game Pat was team captain. At
_ Brighton she won her “colors,” stmilar to our “D,”’ for gym., dancing
and cricket.

Coming to Dal. in 1940 she took
ic up her pre-medical studies and_ it
was not long after her arrival that
_ she was taking a part in badminton,

ie ping-pong, and tennis, ;

__. In 1941 there was keen rivalry in
_ the girls’ ping-pong ladder tourna- |
F a ment. In: this competition Pat
et ‘Yeigned supreme and consistently
_ stayed at the top of the ladder. |
The next year she reached the finay als in the Dal. badminton tournament as well as being runner-up in|
; a the city ping-pong championship.
1943 was Pat’s most successful
year in the world of sports. Having suffered two defeats in the final
. round the previous year she came
_ back strong and with English tenacity and determination won the
Dalhousie badminton tournament
_ completely and decisively, for not.
eee did she win the ladies’ singles
_ but alos the ladies’ doubles and mixed doubles. The same year she won
from a large entry the Halifax City
a and district ping- pong championey: _ ship. In this tournament she added
ne the doubles as well as the singles to
Beas | her list of victories.
aa For the past two years, Pat has
been girls’ manager for ping-pong
f Ri ‘and tennis and much of the interest
my in these games is due to her efforts.
ae Her hardest and most exciting
| «match was played last spring when
es ‘she nosed out the up-and-coming
e _ ever dangerous Virginia Phillips, in
. a a three set thriller for the Dal. bad-minton championship.
) bei __ This fall Pat found time, amongst
her many activities to play in the
ey college tennis tournament in which
i event She was runner-up. Music
ce. __ and sailing are her hobbies and they
; pees relaxation from her heavy
‘medical course. A distinction not
i" always attributed to -athletes is
‘ Pitachidastie ability, but here Pat ranks
eo the best and last year was
. _ awarded the Kellogg scholarship.
er hie Next year Pat plans to return to
_ England and finish , her course in
* either ‘the rere of Edinburgh
d prod student

a-a

\
, it | x m

Be

ts
P|

     
   
  
    
   
 
  
   
   
    
   
     
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
    

 

 
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
   

; oy

 

_to the crew on that score.

| good swimmers on the

. parnek meeeen an lag ship is more than

Too often today

oni s a a sient and gayer life in more congenial i
E meee are we ing about? And what crew?

The ship, for our purpose, is Dalhousie, and its crew is the student
body. The football season has ended and no particular praise can go
The
stands were more than half empty
at most games and even the players themselves, at times, lacked interest. The band, when it appeared, raised the spirit of the crowd,
although at times it gave renditions
that would take more than a Wagner to recognize. The cheering was
poorly organized and only about two
different yells were heard during the
entire season. That should not happen when a downtown store is selling Dalhousie song books, but here
we venture to guess that not a half
dozen students have a copy. Realizing these things, it is not surprising that the ship went under while
its crew were busy elsewhere. The
Tigers did all they could with a
half-hearted effort, but as the’ old
proverb runs “It is hard for an
empty sack to remain upright.”

‘The fall, we would like to remind
the hockey leaders, is no longer here
and day by day the rinks’ schedule
is being filled out by teams who
have brought the ice for the season
in order to play league matches and
have practise sessions. The best
hours have probably been already
taken, and soon the ice will be booked for the season. And yet Dal.'
does not appear to be hurrying in|
the organization of a hockey club. |
A little speeding up is needed. Per- |
haps the hockey organizers can find |
some inspiration to get things
started from that wise French General, Napolean, who once said:
“Time is everything; I may lose
battles but no one will ever see me
lose minutes.”

It is a pleasant thought to know
that so many are interested in a
swimming meet to be held at Acadia sometime in February. If plans
are carried out successfull U.N.B.,
Acadia, Dal., and S.F.X. will compete in this meet Dal. should do all
right at Acadia for there are many
campus.
However, it takes more than ability
to win an event of this kind. It
_takes training and practise. Acadia has an advantage over some of
the other universities in having a
peol on the campus, but this should
not hinder Dal, from training, even
athough they have to practise at
the Y.

In all college sports, whether it
be basketball, ping-pong, badminton, hockey or tennis, it is the few
people who do the organizing and
make the game a success. Two or
three people form the nucleus
around which a successful sport is
earried out. It has often been
proved that an organized minority
can defeat an unorganized majority.
A sport once organized, however,
needs the whole co-operation and
support of the student body to meet
success,

It seems that a certain number
of people around Dalhousie have not
the interest, spirit or enthusiasm to
turn out and watch their own university in a basketball match or any
other game. What exciting events
are keeping them from supporting
the ship—Dalhousie—and what
nob.e deeds are pulling this crew
away from their obligations to the |
ship? Perhaps it is because they
are really doing something fine,
lasting, and beautiful in some other
direction, or could it be that this
crew is simply existing in a narrow,
ennuial, and egocentrical life until
death ends their monotonous tranquility ?”

If a person is not satisfied with
existing conditions or with himself
and the life he is leading a change
should be made. As the great poet,
Robert Browning, said, “When a
man’s fight begins within himself,
he is worth something.” With the
New Year, let “us see if we cannot

aes away our own ‘Selfish desires

When ee Comes ..

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

aA a) ee
ey

Wa

7 7 i 4 i Ay v f Ts

 

BASKETBALL PRACTICES BEGIN;

INTEREST IN SWIMMING TOURNAMENT
THE TIME PROBLEM With the advent of those whist
Joe College has a “free” evening.
He plans to use it for sundry purposes: to do class-work, to copy up
back notes, read a book for the
prof., write home, phone his girl,
listen to speech on war events,
clear up room, have a bull session
with the gang, catch up on some
sleep. Thinking over the situation
Joe fools around, phones his girl,
and has the bull session with the
gang till 2 a.m. Poor Joe, he’s
heading for a real tussle with Time.

Reflections

Looking at the problem honestly,
we know that Joe used his time as
he really wanted to most. That’s
something to swallow—we all do
with. our time what we want—assuming we have free choice, even
when it isn’t the most pleasurable
use of time. Think it over honestly. It’s true.

O. K.—_So Joe has no sound reason for not having enough time.
till even if Joe spent his time in
his “duty” work, he would have felt
dissatisfied because he wanted to be
having fun. But, on the other hand,
if Joe does take his evening off for

pleasure, he’s uncomfortable because he has his work to do.
“There’s Something Wrong
Somewhere”
Joe knows he can work if he

needs to, but there are other things
he wants more with his time. And
as long as the things he really
wants to do aren’t the ones which
lead to a pass in the exams, or
whatevere else Joe thinks he wants,
thene there’s a real Time problem.

“What Do You Want Joe?”
“Well, education, I guess but, not
unless I can find time for reading

| something besides class work, and

for fun, for talking with people, for
exercise, and for loafing—after all,
that’s important too for building up
a balanced personality.” Sounds
reasonable, doesn’t. it!

q “Look Out, Joe!”

Unless you think this time problem doesn’t really matter and that
you can gét along all right with it
for the rest of your life, you'd better think over one or two things.

1. No man ever made what he
wanted of himself, “balanced personality” if you like, by concentrating on himself. He looked for and
found something to lose himself in,
something he really felt enthusiastic about above everything else—
like Chemistry, or Communism, or
tennis, or Bach. The strange truth
is that a “balanced personality” is
acquired only indirectly and not by
the adding machine method.

2. The only way of being sure of
getting somewhere is to find a main
that is decide what you real‘y want most of all, and; believing
in- this aim, go after it instead of
wandering off in all directions. |

 

       

direction and your aim, you'll have | «
one big job for your time—to get |
you there.

“After all...”

Maybe Joe doesn’t want to aoe
the facts—maybe he hopes he’ll get
Time straightened out eventually
without looking at it honestly and
going to the trouble of finding a
single purpose for,its use.

All right, Joe, but remember if
you have too little time, you’ve been
wasting it on what you really want
to do.

Girls Sports Over

 

Till New Year

Basketball game scheduled for
Tuesday night between town girls
and Hall girls was ealled off owing
to the stormy weather. Female
basketball enthusiasts will now hibernate until after the exams, since
this was the last night to turn out
before Christmas. Good luck, girls!
Happy Christmas, and see. you next
year!
st
and think of the ship and our duties
toward it more often, always seeing
that it is kept running smoothly and
efficiently, even at the expense of
ourselves,

  

: A ee the opposite.
When you have decided upon your | i

ling winter winds and_ snowfalls
comes the well known, though at
Dalhousie seldom seen, sport of basketball. The first two turnouts

were very promising, but then to |

everyone’s shocked amazement it
was announced that the team had
been chosen, and only those who
were on it need appear for further
practices.

From a purely practical
diffieult if not almost impossible to |
choose a team after only two practices, and also if Dal. expects to
play both Senior and Intermediate,

fourteen men are definitely not
enough to allow for mishaps or even
changes of players, during games.
From the moral viewpoint this procedure is even more disgusting

since the main object of all intercollegiate sport is to allow as many
students as possible to participate,
and gain both the admiration
and appreciation of their fellows;
to stop them would be unfair, to
the least.

We would hate to think that Dalhousie should again be in the same
‘situation as many times last year

SO

say

when there were frantic efforts to
even get a team on the floor. To
be told to stay off the floor would
have a devastating effect on one’s

college spirit which is bad enough
at our Alma Mater, as it is.

few who were allowed
sn the floor several players
worthy of note. Hart, ~Campbell
and Green played senior last year,
so about all they need is a little
sprucing up on a few points. Barry
wild no doubt be on the senior team,
very tricky and fast. Sears
and Pope, the latter on last year’s
Intermediates, are both good prospects when they get in condition.
Besides Green, other guards showing ability are McKelvie, a very
steady player, and Griffin, a poor
shot but an excellent man for his

Among the
were

being

position. Shaw and Clarke are
from last year’s Intermediates and
both are fairly steady players. Several others from the local high
school have spirit but need more
experience, which will no, doubt be
gained this year. Dal’s prospects

in the league would be hard to say
till we’ve seen the other teams, but
post-Christmas addimight be a_ better

s+

with

+

few
there

Ons

chance.

There has been a mild flurry of

interest around over the possibrtity
of a swimming meet to be held at
Acadia in the new year. Quite a
number of names are down for a

otential
3 inh

team, some being former
igh school aquatics. Howwe fear most of them are sadly out of condition or training,
whereas our opponents would be
At the present

about ot that can be said is:
rit and see”!

slebrs

ever,

Wa

| “IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS
A. Building
Phone 3-6881

XY. MYC: Halifax

 

 

 
    
    

Follow the rest of the boys
for your Footwear to
SHANE’S SHOE STORE
397 BARRINGTON ST. 3-9144

   

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
Phone 3-7133 HALIFAX

 

 
  
 
  
    
    
  

 
 
  
    
   
  

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 Spring Garden Road
3-9754

We Cater to Collegians

    
  

   
  

stand- |
point one would think it to be most |

 

 

 

 

   
 

December 8, 1943 hac

 

   
  

    
   
    
     
    
   
    
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
      
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
     
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
    
 
   
    
   
       
   
   
     
   
     
   
  
    
   
   
    
    
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
   
 

The best
chocolate made

ere

For Sporting
Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

 

Quality Shoes
For Fall

Compliments of

PIANOS — CHURCH ORGANS
SHEET MUSIC - RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

Call on

Wallace Bros.

Limited

415 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. S.
456-460 BARRINGTON SF,

That Gola Ga Something!

. You can
spans it every time

At the ice carnivals you can see

plenty of “know how” in skating.

There’s another star at its best on
ice, too . . . Coca-Cola.

“Know-how,” a finished art in the
making . . . these help to give icecold Coca-Cola _ tig that
we. extra
“something.
So do choicest
ingredients and
a flavour all its own. You

ST, Enjoy its wel
come refresh
ment that goes
quickly into energy. All these factors
lead people to
: select Coca-Cola
as their favourite soft drink.

To get the real thing call for icecold Coca-Cola.

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
    
 
  
    
 

  
 
 

The best
1s always
the better ee

TRADE M:
Dake. gue

OTe

      
 

The energy-giving refreshment
of ice-cold Coca-Cola is so wel.
come after a turn on the ice,

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

HALIFAX 7s

 
