  
    

Cole es CFs ay
Tite il
tants a

 

   

   

—

ih
| CANADA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 
  

°

  
 

 

 

  

  
  
     
 

 

    

 

Sm cr ee

 

 

.ZETTE MOURNS; TRI

Biting Satirist Victim of Assassins

   
 

HALIFAX, N, S.,

 

 

Page. For Tripe is gone; gone beyond recall.

 

MARCH 24, 1944

_—_———_ -_.

 

PE DEAD

‘SURREALIST FAN

 

'freshman) was found

 

yesterday | 
 

Popular Maestro

 

Gazette

STUDENT PUBLICATION

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

No. 20

a

Engaged;

 

Local Talent Enraged

None other than maestro Benny Goodman, will supply the
| sound and the fury for the annual Convocation Ball, the Con
' Ball Committee of the Students’ Council revealed in a surprise

— ——<@:

Bik ius ; Br res announcement yesterday. It is understood this is the first time
os Professorial Tid-bits Fo ul Play Suspected ‘COMMITS SUICIDE a large “named band” has ever accepted an invitation to play at
apt There will be no more Tripe in the Gazette. No more will | _the year-end hop, and the campus was a-buzz as professors
tee by IMA KIDDIN the brilliant satire, the biting wit, the razor-sharp perception} . The blood-stained corpse of Salva-| declared a half-day holiday in celebration of the coup de
(The Keyhole Columnist) and understanding of this star-crossed genius dot the Feature|dore P. Dolicasso (Engineering | musique.

Negogiations, it is said, have been

    
    
   
  
   
 

   

stretched out in the Arts Building |
corridor beneath the display of sur- |
realistic masterpieces on the Circle |
Francais notice board. In a hastily | E
scrawled note clutched in the hand|
of the deceased stood the solution to |
an otherwise inexplicable tragedy. |

  

EAR-DRUMS SPLIT

_. Three students are in hospital rei oe _ covering from injuries sustained during a recent Economics class in
Room 3, Arts Building.

_ —-—Sss« Sitting in the front row—Their
left ear-drums were shattered by a

underway for some time, principally
between the Committee and the
Goodman’s Manager—Jacob B. Jazz.
However, when B.G. heard of the
offer, reliable sources indicated, he J
immediately dashed off one note cancelling his present engagement, and

Death came suddenly yesterday afternoen, when two long,
black station wagons drew up before the Law Building and
several hooded figures. slipped up the stairs to the Library,
where Tripe was pouring forth his soul in what might have been
his most awe-inspiring opus: “No Engineers Drink Forty Beers;
or I Lost My Love to a Transit Table Romeo.” While two of
the mysterious cut-throats held Dean Willis from valiantly

  
 

Receptionist

  
            
      
 

  
  
   
  
 

  

nm

ht “Piasso’s column is driving me, ; : :

any | i . . . % . . i E an ther t } ~ : > ‘*

_ resounding ring of professorial ora- attempting a rescue, the rest barred themselves in the Library },,,4. » it read. “I can’t stand it anv| aor i er ee Ese he
“4 5 . ’ i : ~ “9 ve . e : mbe¢ : " he ss : ( ‘ “ , “

iersee * tory. with the unfortunate author for a quarter of an hour. Tripe|)oncor go ane” | Ce uccepting

* e i bs {

Their discharges from the O.T.C.

gratitude. (These notes, we
Aue. (on medical grounds) are momen
"as ‘er alive again. ,
was never Seen all ag understand, will provide the theme

set Square Used |
No further details were immedi-|

 
  
   
  
  

Rah eather expected. Satire = aiet toe .. Ater  Afteen minutes of bigods | ' abe | for a special Goodman number to be +
ees), kk Pp jee cue eries and groans, finally. dy- ately available by Investigating au- | entitled “Dalhousie, Get Away from
Of Course h. D. or |‘ing away into a ghastly rattle and thorities. The suicidal weapon, still My Woman” to be introduced at the

visible, was. a razor-edged set square. | |
As to why an Engineering student! |

should take such avid interest in sur-|

Ball),

It will be Goodman’s first visit to
the Dal campus and he comes highly
recommended by dance-hall enthusiasts in his home town—Melon Falls,
P.E.I, His ensemble (5 pieces) —

a chilling thud, the assassins darted
from the room. The last one is said
to have been seen a large
black object, burning one end,
back through the door. Opinion is
divided as to whether it was a bomb

. ™ Glancing from Plautus to his attentive little group of Classics stu'  _ dents, the Professor queried: “Why
-- . does our editor use a semi-colon
Phi halfway through line 117 after “in
-_  eolendis” when you would expect a

Peter?

The Senati Academici of Kings
and Dalhousie Universities, acting
jointly, have decided to confer the}

to toss
at realistic art remains a mystery and |
little light was thrown on the mat
ter by the statement

 

of Selective

  
  
 

24 Beet degree~of Ph.D: upon. Peter, well-| 4+ one of Col. Jones’ cigars. The|™Morten Post (Engineering ’35) to familiarly termed “The Benny GoodRe He : Hatt b ht Known campus figure about Dal-| fact that the building was“torn with|the effect: “I ain’t seen nuttin’ like man Quintet” are specialists in old; py | Z : ; *4 99
_. When profound meditation brought}, jusie for several years, and faith-)) wracking explosion shortly after| it
= 4h
. ‘

marked: ~

“Well, it’s really very simple. The
semi-colon is to emphasize the partial break in the seventh foot of the

iambic septenarius metre”,

The class nodded unanimous as
x + &

Alpha The Great

Mi Tt was mathematics I and the Pro
“S.

ee

fessor was putting her class through
an elementary oral quiz:
“If amma’ minus ‘theta’ equals

A ‘ ' one-fourteenth Cos X equals Tan Y
+ —then what angle-does Z make with
the sun at 4.23 p.m. E.D.T., and what

ratio would the length of Z’s shadow
make with the sun of ‘gamma’ minus

~

‘Alpha’ 2 ;

_ Silerice reigned supreme on puzzled

ful and competent scholar in English,
specializing in Old Norse, Middle and
Lower Scots, and  Antedeluvian
Anglo-Saxon. He is also somewhat
interested in Spanish IA, and has
the record for attendance in that
class,
- When intereviewed yesterday, Dr.
Martin, close friend of Peter’s, said:
“If the people whom I let through
English I desetve a pass, then Peter
certainly deserves a Ph.D.”

It is understood Peter will substitute for member of the English
Department when they are unable to

This is the first time, it is ‘said,
the degree of Ph.D. (Phrenzied Dog)
has been conferred on a campus
canine, although Dr. Stanley’s large
black Newfoundland was prominent
in the affairs of the Dal Business
Office some years ago.

 

the black station-wagons tore off in
a cloud of dust rather lends truth
to the latter theorv.

A squad of Meds braved death to
force their way through the wreckage and reverently gather the remains of the unfcrtunate writer with
shovels loaned by several graduates
of P.W.C. (Public Works Committee). Peter McCollough, Law student
famedfor summing up situations at
a glance, could only comment when
interviewed: ‘Well, that’s certainly
a mess of Tripe’”’

leader of a party which volunteered
ito put together enough of the exGazetteer for a decent funeral, stag| gered through the door and collapsed
moaning “Its beyond us’. It
/understood a Special Research Com
bey ds , : a i
‘mittee from the Carnegie Institute

is

Three minutes’: silence was ob
served in the Draughtinge Room in|
Dalicasso’s memory the same after-|

Gazette Building to
| Dominate Campus

noon, following which a crap game
ensued to determine who would claim
possession of the ill-used set-square.
OF SS

Jomt Education
Fisheries Issue
Forthcoming

Readers will be pleased to know
that an “Education” issue of the
Gazette is forthcoming and is sched
A swell treat is in store for one
and all, as the Education Department, while financing the edition, is
collecting contributions from _personnel of the Experimental Fisheries
Staticn affiliated with Dalhousie.

Among the entertaining articles

 

The editorial rooms of the Dalhousie Gazette, long housed in the second level of the Arts Building basement, will be- moved to new
headquarters on the site of the Mur
The

soon

ray Homestead. Homestead,

one-half the distance from Khar-|leave the Faculty Club in time to After fifteen hours work in thel]uled to roll off the press the third| which has been for some time in a
toum to Medicine Hat—assuming| attend classes themselves. dissecting room, James Campbell,| week in April. state of near collapse, due to the

heavy strains imposed by its con-|

7
stant use by the Commerce Faculty,
will be razed by a group of a
gineers and a magnificent new struc- |

ture will be erected in its place. '

time and modern music. Benny himself had many years experience with
Don Messer and His Islanders before
organizing his own outfit, reeruited
entirely from Melon Falls talent.
eBnny’s namesake (believe it or not)
is the King of Swing of clarinettooting fame. The two are distantly
related—The Melon Falls Benny being New York Benny’s third cousin
twice removed.

So, come on gang—everybody out
to the Con Ball!!

 

Mozart Matriculates

‘For Music Club Gates

The ultra-classical Dalhousie Musical Club will make a drastic change
in its musical program in keeping
with the best April Fool traditions,
your Gazette reporter learned recently in an interview with Musie

faces. The professor smiled with | will arrive tomorrow to work on the} now in preparation for the edition F Raa, 30 ie Enrersiood, have Dean Club prexie. H Fannp]
es. / . po AG prexie, Harry Zappler.
. satisfaction: Pj Hill P f | problem. are: “Education in Its Broadest| Supplied by the munificent BORO ,

a “That’s right,” she  chortled, ine- ers © eriorm Eye-witnesses described the thugs] Sense”, by P. Lopiz Cuaderns;| of a large number of shares (pre- | Hot Wax
Ape, ; E * | 66 99 1 itnesses de: pd the al “Codfishoa Source of Vitamin B2” | ¢ | Departing from Mozart, Brahams
gmt = there’s no answer. ou weren Dead of Course as wearing long black gowns and] “ we Meee. 0 “»|ferred) in the Gym Store from an| _ bcs : 4
miigiven the value of ‘alpha’.” ; ECOL PCR ce aie ; feath.| by Felix Pike, and “What the $.M.C. iene Beethoven, the recordings will
Ca Teh highlight of the annual Pine| ?*#! x ee ee a 5 Could Pench. iti “a School’ of Last unknown admirer of the Gazette. | he of a modern and popular vein
eee rl. RAs Hill “At Home” was the performance ny oe pba Nie. . Soles”, by Sealey Fishbein. The last} /" making the contribution, he said: | with Messrs. Duke Ellington, Benny

Social Evening. of the resurrected “zero” manuscript |*"%° 8X Cevice closely resembling Goodman and Vaughn Munroe lead
 

Members of the faculty gathered
recently in the gymnasium for a

of Shakespeares' Macbeth entitled

a Dalhousie Engineering crest on
‘their chests. A strange odor of

mentioned throws some light on the
vital problem of “educating our fish

“Like all admirers of the Gazette, 4

want to be unknown. I couldn’t

ing the list of “off the record” enter
“Dead of Course.” Deemed by some ay i a P pane tainers. Lest Music Club members
re : : eon f 3 av over the|for the frying-pan of tomorrow. na Pein ot has ig i
Social evening of music and recrea-| ta be superior to the modified version | 2th, white . death, lay ove stand the ostracism.” Although as-| fear the worst—the innovation is 4

tion. The program was as follows:
1. A male vs. female basketball

game (see sports page).

_ 2. An exhibition of jui-jitsu tactics

_ (oriental tumbling) by Dr. George
— Wilson,

3. A series of gymnastics on the

7 fs _ parallg] burs—as demonstrated by

Prof. L. Richter.

studied in English II it exemplifies
again the genius of Shakespeare
(?). No doubt Prof. Bennet, one
of those privileged to witness this
unique performance, found
source -of aid and comfort to
students.

The plot, as in the more popular
(up- te now) version hinges on a

his

it: iB

 

scene, and pinned on Trip’s typewriter was an almost illegible note
blue-print paper+“Youse can’t pin
dis on no body”. Foul play is sus| pected, University authorities said
lest night after a special Senate
meeting to consider the case.

| It had also been reported that the
mysterious strangers earried off two

 

 

Officers Elected to

Delta Gamma

Dieta Gamma profits for the year
are equally divided and donated to
Red Cross and Community Chest.

New-officers for ’45 are:

President: Margie Morrison.

 

sured by the Gazette reporter that
he and the Editor had a few little
ostracisms of their own and found
them most amenable if treated gentiy, the unknown admirer preferred
to be known only as “Unknown Admirer.”

Besides the editorial rooms, the

 

 

only temporary—and the old masters
will monopolize attention again at
all subsequent meetings.

Anyone not yet in contact with
“examination fever” who craves a
restful evening of musical entertain-\
ment—isurged to attend Saturday’s
reunion of the Dalhousie Musie Club
at 8 p.m. in the Halifax Conserva
ens : ; ; ‘ . | buildin lans call for a suite for
_ 4. Reading of a paper on “Soup— dastardly plan of the avaricious|law students, Miss Kinley and Miss See’ty-Treasurer: Connie Archi- er detec of the ese on the | tory:
. . bt ee Ll Cc ;
Its - 57 varieties” —by Prof. C. L. [Tady Macbeth (Tommy Rogers) to|}Johnson, but at a late hour last| bald. second and third floors (reached by N.B.—The above announcement is
Bennett. ; replace the King of Seotland (John | night. it was said they had been dis- President of D.G.A.C.: Anne | elevator): a lounge and bar on the| truth not fantasy.
_5,.A group of Svanish folk songs Ballem) “by mer husband (Harry |covered hitch-hiking towards Lunen- | Saunderson. ecte pi scbpg = Rie pcuee rae
* ok } ‘ ‘ ae § : Ss y : SS Se eee
(latter 16th century), sung by Prof. Bagnall). The plot shows too, the| burg, and refused to comment on the} Social Chairman: Janet Gillis, ronin’ Caw Tester Cathe: will Be ions
C. Mercer. . amazing foresight of Shakespeare by | situation. Dramatics Manager: Elaine i st i as os th fe te .. | Will appear daily, in a ten-page edit (| Cheer Leads its resemblance to the modern ‘eter- | Hopewell : wee eoe See ne aaaente €MIP~| tion, including one page of funnies.
be The basketball game, Wednesday |. ielebicic® Powiaiices. vIn tact it Fiucstesks ect haeeiiice. nae ment), near the main revolving The week-end edition will have an 8
Pay, night, was attended by a large dele- contains two such triangles. The U. A. Fase News Robertson. acne os , Te oe . ool and page comic section, a literary supgation of professors under the lead- King is in love with one of the three Debating Manager—Terry Mona- Aare eae egure Th we Bakeutont | plement, and a plan for the week’s
_ ership of Dr Carleton Stanlev. | witches (Blair Colborne, Cecil Hobbs| _ Tt has been announced that sum-| |” EE ee aoe Emanem Oot POR a Asn 'thama, thie ‘eatin iat
. Dr. Stanley enthusiastically led! cia Westhaver) while Lady Mac-|™er camp will be held either at | Anita Shodwiineieled Casstts retiring editors in a roof-top cupola. Ge aeate St ce all doe ke
~~. the group i umber of robust col- |... f ‘|| Charlottetown, P. E. I. or at Mont:
ee ee acl tha |beth and Count Dracula (Merril | reporter for Delta Gamma, The Gazette, now financially the| week-end.

 

MacLeod) have more than a friendly | Joli, Quebec, probably at the former.

«: Bi dawingiltesses” is Geo oC | ‘he dates for the camp being May 2 A vote of thanks extended to | most strongly-backed journal on vied Stone for the structure will be
aie ald “Parva Tigra—whee-eee! rte of Conan Doyles inspir-| te May 16.. Classes will end on Ue Morse, retiring president, for a} campus, will absorb the Alumni transported from the Pine Hill

}

_ “Magna

r

Continued on page 2

Saturday, April 1.

difficult job well done,

 

News and the Dalhousie Review. It

short-cut,
Pues Ais
wip tttentes MAE ie ae Boccacio ©
eee IES, nts We DM Ih k cies areas S43 P. Revere
or” . xd ee FOS REN eRe ea AN te ees oe ng! Ike Bickerstaff
OY 2s ha, ON AYER eis cee Oss EN Menaechmi Bros.
; ae eee ree irs. ..La Tante de Pierre

_ REPORTERS

Bis: ‘issue we tek what we believe is the first
Edition of the Gazette ever to appear at Dalhousie,
‘eral other colleges bring out an April Fool edition
certain amount of opposition is always met in any

om the conventional, and some indignant protests
pected. However, please remember its all in fun,
offence is intended towards anyone, and we sincerely
_ those mentioned in this issue will accept it in that

this time, when exams are approaching with their usual
ying rapidity and many an unfurfowed brow is developdeep wrinkles of care, a little of the ridiculous is welcome.
is with that thought in mind we have produced this issue.
the reader derives a little amusement, a little enjoyment,
re returning to the more serious tasks, its purpose will have
_aecomplished.
The time has also come to say Farewell, since this is the
tieth and final Gazette. We will linger not over our goodsave to thank all those who have helped us during the
, and to wish every suecess to next year’s Editor and

—E.J.5S.

(The fourth in a series of answers by members of the
teaching staff to questions put forward by the Gazette on
problems pertaining to the university, the community and
the nation.]

Question: What Is the Canadian Youth Commission?
Pihapred by: Prof. A. S. Mowat, Department of Education.

ae ‘Young people in Nova Scotia do not yet know enough about
the Canadian Youth Commission. First of all, I must make
ar that the Commission is not a government commission but
independent body acting entirely on its own iniative.
Among its members are men and women from all over the
on inion: business men, barristers, administrators, Y.M. C.A.

yur ‘representatives, clerics, both Protestant and Catholic,
ee achers, and even a university professor or two. The Nova

Scotia representative is Mr. C. F, Fraser, Editor of the Halifax

Chronicle. °
“ae ae aim of sag Commission is | to press as strongly as possible for

} ve their adoption.

I was privileged to sit in on the
last meeting of the Commission held
in Montreal on the week-end beginning Friday, February 18th.

Seek Student Opinion

Many excellent reports were submitted, but to my mind the best report of all was that of Mayor General Chisholm, Director of the Canadian Army Medical «Services, who
said he would not have a written
statement until he had heard from
Young Canada. This desire to know
the thoughts and desires of young
Canadians on post-war problems
_ their country and feel they are | concerning their welfare came to be
needed in peace as well as in war. | the keynote of the Montreal meet
Such an outcome requires fore-| ing of the Commission, and those of

ght and planning if anything con-| us who w ere present went home our
‘Structive is to be done. Some group| respective ways determined to see
“must begin now to study the whole| that “the young people themselves
; tion as it affects youth, and to] regard the Commission as a channel

r ulate proposals for a. practical through which they can make their
era me.” needs known and play a distinctive
Studying Youth Probleths , j Bart in shaping the conclusions that
They propose to study the condi- | are reached” Provincial organizanecessary for the welfare of| tion is now under way in Nova Scogz people between the ages of | tia and young Nova Scotians, includnd 24 in the post-war period; to! ign the students of Dalhousie Unirecommendations for the es-| versity, will have an opportunity to
ment of. ncn est and’ make their sentiments known,

d Donors Mon. March 6

“Globe, Harriett Roblin, Marion
Etter Phyllis Alley, Doreen
Bean Kathyrn Colborne, Blair
Archibald, Joyce MacDonald, E. D.
- Campbell, Barbara Feetham, May D.
Moulton, R. W. Knight, R.
Sawlor, Joyce Matheson, D. T.
Stirling, Jean Dunlop, Don
Sarson, Edwina Dunlop, Blair
Green, Goldie Clarke, D. S.
Bloomer, J. C. S. Currie, R. M.
Barry, Kevin Harvey, Miss K.
-Pike, A. P. Snuggs, Wm.
_ Levy, Susie — Crowell, Edwin
peueas John | Gorham, Eville
3 Payzant, L. J.
Smith, Fraser
Saffron, A. S.

ng idee who eehritt ‘in our de“e against the enemy. When the
ting is over these young people
st fare better than some of them
d - during the depression. For
m—and for the younger group
ming along after them—suitable
C portunity must be found in posta % ar Canada; opportunity for ema, ployment, which is primary, but also
, | for more adequate education, recreaS tior. and health services; and, more
portant still, opportunity to serve

This. be oe issue of fhe Ydp-a4 edition of the Dalhousie

heralds the close of another year. Once more it is the

|task of the editors of this paper to look back over their

shoulders at the record of the past year, to grasp again and to

hold for a brief moment the straws, as it were, upon which they
have built their editorial structures.

The Literary column of this paper is not an old column,
but work of outstanding literary merit was a characteristic of
the Gazette of sixty to seventy years ago. While it would be
unfair to say that there has been no attempt at literary expression in recent years, one is justified in saying that there has
been too little interest shown in the preparation of written work
suitable for publication in the Literary column of the Gazette.
One of the members of the Department of English has suggested to me, that it might be possible to interest students,
(particularly students in the junior English classes who have
a “turn” for writing), in writing for this column. Bearing this
suggestion in mind, I am, I feel, justified in further suggesting
that the Literary column might be brought into closer association with the classes-of the Department of English, particularly
the junior classes.

A former editor of this column was constrained to remark:
“The literary column has always been one of the weaker and
less interesting parts of the Gazette.’’ This same editor also
noted: that some editors had been forced to write the column
themselves due to lack of material. My personal experience
forces me to acknowledge that there is more than a grain of
truth in these statements. In the first instance it will be generally conceded that this column will appeal to a smaller reading
group than certain other Gazette features, but this fact must
not be permitted to lower the standard of workmanship, nor
cause interest to flag. Rather it should be an incentive, since
the demands of a small group are usually acute, and reflect a
keen interest and well developed taste peculiar to that group.

Due to lack of material, I have been forced to do a considerable amount of “hack «riting’” during the year, and consequently the column fas suffered. “Hack’’ work rarely rises
above a certain level. It is a product of desperation minutehand madness, column deadline, a twisting of life, and bad
English. It is my sincere hope that my successors will be
blessed with an abundance of work to edit.

It may have been noted by some, that drama, music, and
art, have not been commented upon in this column. I have
never been approached with material on the arts, and I have
hesitated to express any opinions of my own because I believed
myself ill-qualified to do so.. I may yet bring the wrath of the
Gods upon my defenceless head by incautious comments. Nevertheless, with two or three exceptions, artistic expression and
appreciation is not. an obvious characteristic of students on this
campus. The Dalhousie Music Club is to be commended for
breaking a new furrow. The exhibitions of Canadian art have
not been fully appreciated. These exhibitions have been very
informative generally, and invaluable to those who are trying
to understand and appreciate Canadian Art. The pictures were
as well hung as conditions permitted. It is to be regretted that
one was forced to ascend one step short of Heaven in or der to
see the exhibits. The natural lighting was quite good, even
if the room was at times a bit small for the exhibit. The reward
was always greater than the trouble. I will not make more than
a passing comment on the drama on the campus. While I may
profess to have some knowledge of drama (English 9) I have
little practical experience.

I remember that, while I was yet in high school, I attended
a performance of Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night” put on by the
Dalhousie Glee Club. It was a truly memorable production! I
realize that the Glee Club has to count its pennies more than
ever before, yet it is rather poor praise when one is forced to
say of the “best”? Glee Club show in years, that while it was a
“eood” show, the “best” in years, it was not a really good show.
All productions played in the Gymnasium are played in opposition to what may be called “poor theatre tone”. When the curtains close and the lights go on between acts, the magic, the
mystery, and the glow disappear much too quickly. Again, it
must be fully realized that the acoustic qualities of the Gym
are not of the best. The stage is well equipped with stage lightine. The sensitive use of illumination maybe resorted to in
order to offset the poor theatre tone. 
~ T shall permit myself a further word on the recent musical
comedy. This show was the result of much hard work. I desire
to make only a few suggestions. A musical comedy must first
of all be musical. There were some rough spots in this production. Facetiously, one might say that a tenor was “drowned”,
and a chorus “dive-bombed” by sopranos. Secondly, a musical
comedy should have in generous measure, the elements of
comedy. Further a good show means much hard work, but it
is hardly necessary to leave the marks of the shovel on it.
Above all a musical comedy must have spontaneity, joie-devivre, a certain abandonment, a pulse-stirring concatenation of
musical oddments, a light and airy plot (but it must bear no
hall-mark, and above all else it must not drag! The stage crew
for this production did a fine job. The flats were moved quickly
and with comparatively little noise. This is of course the
opinion of a spectator, who ha stoo often listened to a “hammer
serenade”. And so ‘‘to green fields and pastures new!”

This column will be, in all probability, the last literary
column that I shall write for the Gazette, and I .do so with
relief tinged with regret. A literary column was not always
part of the Gazette. Duri ing my editership I have tried to keep
alive, often, I fear, at the expense of good taste. I pray that
my good intentions will excuse the meanness of my expressions.
I beg leave to exhort my successors to be diligent and tobe of
good faith, that the spirit which has animated this paper for

PLAYER'S NAVY

DALHOUSIANS ...

CUT. CLG A:R-ETT ES

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

490 BARRINGTON STREET

After any Show

or . . .

Before any Meal

Think of .

The

Green Lantern

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
©

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

——

LORD NELSON HOTEL

Good
Luck

Birks extends good wishes for health and happiness to the student body.
May we add “thank you”’
for your patronage.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

_ FARMERS’ MILK
|

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Balhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

three- quarters of a century, may live on.

Pine Hillers -
Continued from page 1

ations is seen in the characters of
Dr. MacWatson (Neil McKelvey)
and MacHolmes (Jim Campbell) who
with a combination of medical skill
and deductive, reasoning put the
eredit for the crimes on the appropriate characters. Dr. MacWatson
showed the full extent of his medieal skill when on examination of two
corpses and a dummy he pronounced
them “Dead, of Course’.

While Banquo (Ewart Burke) had
a brief but eventful life he was the
vehicle which showed Shakespeares

grasp of idiomatic English by his

emotional and pathetic cry of “Holy- |

L. W. C.

good-jumpin’”, as the King died
‘neath Lady Macbeth’s blow.

Shakéspeare was most ably assisted both in the writing and staging
of this masterpiece by Harry Aikens
and David Coldwell and the outStanding musical accompaniments by
Mmitrovich Spaslov sky (H. Aiken)
were the seeds from which the
modern opera grew.

Awestruck and with a feeling of
humility and reverence towards the
Bard the audience left Pine Hill.
The wit and plot were exceedingly
good and with the original music,
especially the theme “Schone Mutter
die ein Messer tragt”, and fiwaless
staging made the play the best production presented at Pine Hill for
many years,

Diplomas: Music, Baginsering. Phurmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standi leadi
te eae gn ng, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculti
Course in Public Administration. a

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through *
the courses.

_ The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year. . ee

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
    
       
   
     
  
    
    
   
  
    
   
 

, ie _ Yet a third corpse, that of a noted
_ wolf, was found in Shirreff Hall
woods yesterday as the series of
springtime murders continued. As
*» the other two, the present corpus
- eurdler was completely stripped of
his stockings, shoes, garters, cuff_ links, and accessories, remaining
- otherwise completely clothed.
A resume of the activities of the
“vs gorgeous ghoul, for it is presumed
to be one of the glamorous of Shirreff Hall, is given. First found
_ dead was John “Baby Lips” Ballem,
_ erucified in horrific strain on a tie. pin. It was reported that previous
™ to his murder, he had been studying
in the Shirreff Hall library, judged
by detectives to be one of the lone liest spots on the whole campus.
_ He left the Hall shortly after eight
+ o'clock (closing time) and was never seen alive again.
4 Second to die was an unidentified
' - professor, whom it was believed was
_ mistaken for one of the studenst.
- He had been taking a short stroll] in.
“the woods prior to retiring. In his.
ease the rippress had taken from
him a toupee, and marks of lipstick
on his cheek only attested to the
wolverine’s tactics at drugging the
victim. .

Third to die was Lauchie, and his
death truly points to femininity in
the crime. His moustache had been
completely removed, and several of
his teeth, admirable things for sou
PN

 

‘ {eeu
fe Sui Buis qsvod artQue 94} YZIM epso]o
Avjd oy, *.271@M eqnueg enig,, fo
uoI}Ipuet uUMO S,tojddez Buisuis puv
‘gjoy pnul & UL SUIMOTTeEM Sem ‘UDY
-uog tojeqg Aq Adevolep pues Burpee
yyiM, poAvrjzod ‘opeyng sezyeM jue
Yee ‘erpuy. ut ‘ouacs pay oy) UT
 "SpparTyg sem og ‘s[qissodurt
SVM VSvuorzyed oy} ‘padtiie suorjed
euz ou 3043 Ag ‘pearnooid aq
‘*, p[mood syooys Meu SR oT}? YoNs [jun
pesojo aeq oYyj ‘ssouIsng 242 [[B oO}
poeple, Sulary ‘sulpuezieq sprerys
pay, YytM peuedo sueds puoves oJ,
‘adog [{tq jo sanjoid ve
qno Suisseap Aq doy Suroueyis AI[e
-uy ‘ure3e Sesse[d 0} ye} JUeTdADAII
) Yous peyozrms spd ey} Ing ‘ust
‘e UO SuQuvdsep pavey eq pynod ayy My
ractuning jO 9d10A [[BUIS 94} puNoIs
-yoeq Sy} UL o2jIyM ‘sesse[D JIteyy
BuUISSNOSIp “fl UL BEM S[ITs [BVAeS
TI@H Peoswtys 7ye sues wooIpaq B
yyia ‘Ajsnoidsne ueseq Avid ayy,
‘AUOULLIPEUL IO s[eIoIEUt
| -Woo o1per roy JUatNZIe poo 10430
. Pag ST yorum ‘Avid oy} ves yng op 04
BuIy{OU pey sAKBZ[OIX, + ‘“Setjoog puv
‘sarqeog ‘sorjeoly ‘Sorysvoy ‘sorqysvoy,
‘SolyveyM Uo [eloTeWUWIOD Opel ¥
SHeUL OF PVY UsTe TI, ‘“UOISSIWII9 UI
\ SULINP 9JtM STI 99S 0} SABa] OF PRY
~P

f

BI0S ‘preray ey} FO oavajooyy qog
pue ‘9ptuoryD 943 JO es10g uPULION
SuUIpusz}e SOI YSU 4s1y Suowy
",S}8O Youn zalwy,, JO yuawesueare

. “3431, 943 Sulsurs ‘uo os pux ‘urqfeg
i Any ‘uemyoys eqy Aq pe, ‘syuep
} . ‘uoyIMey AYyjoL1og Burueizy
: “ue ey} Aq papre ‘preqryary Avy pey
(, Uo words oy} seM aj[oI pea, speur
IO 4siy OY} Ul ‘“SulzvuIe sem—odAy
mm “pes s[qeqnwmUr 4yeyy
_ ‘punore ueae IO ‘19A0 4aR 4,uplmoo
) TP ‘sea qr pres ar0yg wAD ayy
Ji—poos puv ‘Aemyjzeg uo ysaq Az0A
;

   
 
   
   
 

oy} jo Buniy Arojs xz pequiodyoveq
40 pal[nd pey ‘xouyne syr ‘spjaryg +p
| PREAMP “971D,, PUB HD, “dy,
“e100'T,, “OFFI go , Sulpeor SNOLoIp
“nf Sq 3f puryeq snques sem azoyy
sA4[N4} puy ‘shud yeorS zsyjo yjim
— SoUBISGNS UL JOU JT “ULLOT ut A[quazoa
- BF poredwuod sv] & speayg yqueq,,
‘SPIOM 19Y4}O UL “Ff 03 yxeduIt pynoo
| ; Aoy Auo yey} ssoupeu ayy yim
a

‘aqjozer) oy} JO Were TOW 'O ‘ff e109
fag sde[ddez Arey woay seme ae
-njS puv[punojMeN os70M ato,

po] e[eUley oy} a[IyM “ToyTOdSur10H
_ “aisnoyjeq —saeys jo Axes s3]

nOK ‘981015 WALD a4} pepmozo pay
}\ Jt taeded .spreryg sea 9}49ZBr) 9

20S PBS e}J0Z"D ey} JT “oq 07 pey

ae JO WSMepBILYO ey} peyay

SPIYOAQ MON] SUT,
SPIPTYS P|

 

 

 

ee —————— CY. DW $e
=

 

Boys, Scarred

venirs of a coup de decease, were
also gone.

The great thinker, Sergeant MacAskill Harlow of the C.0.T.C., was
assigned to the ease. In his mind
ran such bits of information as
“MacDonald, F. R., ’40, still owes
boots, duffle bag; MacDonald, F. S.,
39, owes shoulder badge; MacDonhald, F. P., ’42, still owes for Bren
gun”. Truly a magnificent mind,
perhaps the most retentive on the
campus.

The gist of it is that the lipstick
was analyzed, and found to be a
five-cent Variety common at the
Hall. Of 150 girls questioned, 165
had lipsticks of this kind. (Which
proves that there are some girls
you just can’t question).

Above are shown members of the
staff of a weekly newspaper, not to
be confused with the Gazette. In
the foreground are seen Izzy
Schmozzle, who bears a_ startling
resemblance to J. C. McLaren, beloyed, respected, and argued-about
news editor; Joan Blondell, or Margaret Morrison; E. J. Baffleyoungster, looking like E. J. Duffleyoung
(uoasid
JaUABO BIA peArl@oar sem onbrunw
-“Wl0D VAOgGe 34} YoIyM Worl ‘aloy
-xOJ Bw uMOp perveddesmp ATdwoad
‘soko sAatluIyg JBaouery ur 4YST
ey} Surjou ‘zaz10d9a1 a439ZzB4) VY J,)
*,UWlOIlg iolNp oyy OF OS 04 JUBM
OM UBYM ‘MOU SN WoOIy ABME yoR
pus Aq uroyy ye, ysnl puy {3,uvd
aM Op Aoyy uUvd 4eyAA 00} ‘sBuTYy
9soy}, Op OF JUBM BM ‘SABIS 94}
tepun Suidse[s pue ‘sdesf Zuipia “no
BSurdurwa JO uny 94} ][e savy sAoq
94} plnoys AYA,, :pemorfArozUL uayM
‘pies oym ‘AouUTyg UselIT aq [IM
werdo0id pessni ay} Jo esreyo uy
«¢ SUTULE TY
ayiyeq yenjoe jo Ssurures oy} Loz
eune cJepun dures syeom-om} B ploy
ILOWUMLOY ANT [IM puv ‘sesimoo yjpnesse
pue soljoe} BpuURUIUIOD SuTpnyour ‘Bur
sUlevr} Arey Jo weisord aqjaldutoa
Be uodn yaequie [[IM vuIURy vzJaqG
JO OM Jey ,{pepuse WorjvIepep o1}j,,
‘peplsep usceq aitojfarey, sey }j,,
« SULIOJ
“un ‘O'L'O'O suneysvaop Ayjaz0q4n
eso0y},, JO UOI{NGa4stp 243 UI Wey}
JSULVSB VOTPBUILULIOSIp SNOLAqO ayy Aq
peroust pues peqysis o19M Ady} 4197
Aout 7ey} pue “Oy yd ey} pur qnip
[BPUOZIIOF{ 9} SB SodtjyaIN0S yens Jo
UOlBUIWOp seu FO patty s1aMm Ady]
yey} ‘ouloy 944 ul svM sori[d areys
yey} ‘ueut suios Aq paaorjaq Aljuered
-de [[ijs 1ouimi asjey ey} 03 pus ue
qnd 0} pouruzejzop orem Sp13 oy} yey)
pezeys Ajzeqry JO tazzeyQ mou oy,
‘MOOI UL Buyjoour BSuisnor v sozye
Bure), eyjeaq Aq AepxzeysaA ponsst
uoTyeUBpooOrd jyuLyep B UloOIy UMBIp
eq 0} UWOISNPOUOD BulyjzBys oyu} sea
‘soyeUl ayy 0} pauyuod Ajartjua you
SI sndureo 94} UO SsoupapulU-Ie Ay

 

Dalhousie defeated Necum Tech
at a close debate held over radio station CHNS last Wednesday night.
Upholding the affirmative of* the
resolution, “Resolved that angleworms are necessary for the salvation of agriculture,” were J. C. McLaren and Bob McCleave. Mr. MeLaren, in opening his speech, reminded the listener that only by restoring friendship with the common
argle-worm could our crops be assured that heavy turn-over enhanced
by worm costs, and stated that
little things had a gritty task ahead
of them.

He also pointed out that the
creature could be divided in two by
chopping at it with a mashie, and
advocated that golfers do something
useful for the community along this
line. He furthermore stated that

 

| ster (alright, it’s Shields); Miss
Ima, Secretary, or Betty Atkins

(couldn’t fool you on that, she’s in
| the public eye-mmmm); Kevin

| Bearup, or down with hardship, or

Barry. In the back: Bill Black (or
opposite to white) or _ really
the W. R. Pope; Laurie Smith;
Tripe, or he looks life life,

Bob McCleave, engineerphile; Butch

‘003 ‘1aouIsua
ue Aq sem iy ‘dnos yeqeydye jo [oq
B UL SuIzeoy diuinj & sMoYsS 4

‘$109}9] Ul adRid B aAsTyOR 03 ‘prey
-19JUM OAT puv uesey [[tq Aq pe]
‘sse]) SullveuLduq 9Yyy JO sPIOye ayy
uo peseq Alosal[e o4sejuRy eB MoIp
‘9Ip 03 AunoA 00} Sey sepiseq pu
‘Ayumoes jo suosver AO ‘proyyyLA
St auUIvU BSOYyM “YstjIB JUepNys sy

‘[[2} [[[M owl], ‘eouep ost
0} Josey ZuLye} aJepisuod Ajsnolses
0} Jajep [eoojiq B IO VBvinod oy dn
peMeIos SBY VUOsUIOS peINOoWNA SI
WY +‘eWi} pooos eB savy pus punore
gouep [IM dnois oy ‘ejodAeul se (ag
pres aM) ysnq §, mg susp

 

‘AIBAQI, OY} 0} pRoysuUt
peprod0e pue wAr 04} JO Yoarestjo
yey} Ulory ABME. Udye}] aq [[LM ‘Uap
seudeg pay jo Azyyeyidsoy Zursz0y
-Wl0d 9y} UL Play eq 03 peuued Alle
-UISIIO0 eoUuRq ,SUP;Me_ oIpes jenu
“ue 94} Jey} peouNnouUe Ose ays

"IOATINOL VY} JO S[BIOU BY AsMOT
0} pusz Ajeyuyep Ady} se Woy. yUIS
plnom yeoq-f) ou yeyy sureq jorjeq
ay “FZBI9 pall] y JUdreyIp jo zoquinu
B WO TaAO paddiys eq [tm Aoyy,

‘ea0jeq punoy useq JaAou s¥y
SY90}00G 10 Sze]}JOOG AO sSuUTyIZ00qG
JO JUSW.Osse aouy e& pue ‘synis
94} 7B sonep 93Y} OyI] peyzom s]a13
SUL ‘S}NSel s[qvyeuler YIM youl
pey ‘S¥aSIOAO SI9IPjOS uvIpeuRD 0}
LOG UsIp[Nfo Sunod A0F sayjoog apra
“Ord 0} BULBS) BIJEG JO sqaoye yua
“OT GY} FEY} 9}}0ZBL) BY} 03 pddunoU
-ue Ajpnoad sey estoy uesng SSI

sozIqo,] wuUET) wOq

 

SY _seet seen seen

TW3lS HLV3d,,

Win Radioratory

 

k=w gli

SE Ch

Dot’s Dilemma

only by the proper cultivation of ari
angle-wormedfull garden could we
get-enough spinach to assure Popeye
of plenty of readers, and added to
this cultural note the fact that
angle-worms, above all others of
God’s chilluns, give more than they
take.”

Mr. McCleave, opening his address, said, “Thank you Mr. Chairman (H. Scott Gordon). Honorable Judges, Worthy Opponents and
ladies and gentlemen of the radio |
audience.” He closed by saying |
“thank you!” |

The victory was truly a Pyrhhic |

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday
one for the university, because half | “CRIME DOCTOR’S
the students listening in (a half- |

wit) lost his reason because of the | STRANGEST CASE”

rare Dal win. But with mouths
wide open, Dalhousie debaters |
angled their way to victory.

 

GARRICK

 

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
“SMART GUY”

CASINO

. Sat, Mon., Tues.
The Heat’s
~ On

with

MAE WEST
VICTOR MOORE

*
Wed., Thurs., Fri.

The Strange
Death of

Adolf Hitler

Lemoniski, or Boris Funt, genial
staff writer; and Don CorringporkDon Corringham,—who ecartoons aptly. Missing: Eileen Phinney, James Campbell, Bill Lawrence, Frederick Martin, Lou Collins, John Hibbits, Eugene Merry,
(now on active service), and half of
Studley, plus that sergeant who
types ‘out the U.A.T.C. orders.
(Photo by Maxwell)

er, “OY

‘uleq & YO UMOTG peYy Yoru
e[sulys & oq 0} pasord J9ze, sem puv
‘UOT}IGIYXS 94} OJUT ABA S]T JOR ‘ayey
-stut Aq ‘ouQ ~‘UMOYS SBM SINOTOD Jo
WOIJe[eS VoIOYO YW “yoom ysel Aajlaq
S¥[3nog Lossejorg ur peuedo sysnay
BUJoAvI, JO UONIqryxy uUvIpeuey
oy} JO UOTZIQIYXe INO[OD JeIeM yeNU
“UB 9} UsYM ANO[OD A9zeM ButANs vB
peynqi1zu0d AjyIsIeATU oy} ye yUapNys
queseid v ‘s,sIsnoyleg si yey. oan}
“(ND 94} 02 Apjeors Surgnqizyzu0g

GYOLTAS
SaLAEMLNOO YHANIONG

 

‘GEORGE in the HOME GUARD’

 

  
   

  


ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

“KLONDIKE KATE”
“SILVER CITY RAIDERS”

 
  
 

  

—[]———
  
   
  
 

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

. “ALL BY MYSELF”
“BILLY KID GUN JUSTICE”

 
 
 

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday
“WHAT’S BUZZIN’, COUSIN”
“DANGEROUS BLONDES”

 

~~ Wednesday and Thursday

“HI DIDDLE DIDDLE”
“MINE SWEEPED”

 

Thursday and Friday
“NORTHERN PURSUIT”

 

 

Capitol
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

The Cross of

Lorraine

PIERRE SURMOUNT
GENE KELLY

*

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

PAULETTE GODDARD
FRED MacMURRAY
“STANDING ROOM
ONLY”

 

 

es i
Pe 5 yf

 

eee SS r > \ AS Eh ode
rw

sat

Wii  — i sie a
...0r how to welcome sons on furlough

Countless letters from our fighting sons overseas tell us how much

they miss Coca-Cola or, finding it, how much it reminds them of
home and friends. So when your boy, or your neighbour’s boy,
comes in on furlough, have a frosty, refreshing “Coke” to offer.
It’s a little thing — but one that says better than words: “It’s the
same old friendly place as before. You’re home again.”’

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

é

Have a Coca-Cola=You’re home

again

    
  
 


It's natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That's
why you hearCoca-Cola called “Coke, 675

Page ‘Three )

 

 
rd-ear hope to gain a place in the

gal 1e was close all the way through and was marked

ny fouls. During the overtime period the Tigers were

ed to call upon Doug Clarke who was a spectator to don the

i because only four Dal players were left without having
collect on them.

ci
ae
zee)

——— +

las I am going to tell it.

~

My AY
Nara ce

and be.su a I

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking
Powder and Dried Fruits.

| W.H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.
eae Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

r

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 .Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years.

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

The best
chocolate made

: =
/ di oa
a =
Oc : =
pe} i e, a >, ae) “
4 he a)
} ne Gee
tT P
: a ¥, Ed atid
f
, \ i
Z A

*

Pe

Staff Activity

What son, you went to hear a

story about my college days? Well,
now let’s see. There was a memorable incident that happened during
my sophomore year. I have told it
| before; people have laughed at me;
|they have told me its grotesque,
| weird, fantastic—just a hallucination. But nobody said these things
| that were there that night, son!
No, they knew better! I want you
| to remember that it happened just
We are
going to disregard all the supersti| tions and legends that grew out of
| this oceasion ‘and stick to the simplest, prosiest facts.

| “Dal ’44. Somehow or other there
leaked out from the University office a story that never yet, son, has
been superseded in the speed it travelled over the campus. I don’t
know how it started circulating—
perhaps a gossipy secretary. Nevertheless, once it burst ‘out of the
bag’ there was no stopping it. One
student would whisper some words
to another and thus it spread far
and wide. Groups gathered in remote corners to discuss in low, silent
tones the far-reaching possibilities
that this very night might reveal.
There seemed to be something ominous about all this, and yet, like a
rushing wind the news spread to the
fartherest corners of the campus;
Shirreff Hall was excited, Forrest
campus laid plans to be in the gym.
good and early, and even that vigorous little outpost—Pine Hill—had
heard the news by 3 p.m.

“Still listening son! Yes, I went
along that evening too. Of course
I didn’t believe that it would actually take place, but then you never
know. When we arrived there was
a crowd and more were filling in every moment. It was reported that
the news had somehow reached the
President, and that he was, that
very minute, somewhere in the maze
of people. Such a crowd, son, I’ve
never seen—the place was packed.
But a fellow by the name of Payne
—a diminutive red-head, you will
meet him when you go to Dal, son—
had somehow anticipated this crowd,
and he and his assistants directed
the milling throng. As I said, every
available corner was taken but the
curious thing about it all was that
the crowd was strangely silent—
just a little excited, perhaps, as if
momentarily awaiting some _ approaching doom. And then in a
slow approach, what everybody had
come to see, made an appearance.

First could be heard a muffled
sound, then appeared Bell—a_biology professor, I think, leading. what
proved to be a band to a reserved
nook in the crowd where they all
seemed to disappear, except Bell,

STRONG POINTS
“THAT STAND UP
WHEN YOU
BEAR DOWN

NON-CRUMBLING
LEADS THAT TAKE A
PERFECT POINT
EVERY TIME

INSOLUBLE
MARKS THAT DON'T
RUN OR SMEAR
UNDER WATER

of Startling

Made

who jumped to the sidelines and is
his spotlessly white ‘turtle - neck

College Hymn. After this a tre
mendous roar went up.

Residence Seek By
Thrilling New Sport

At just about this point in our college career, a word should
sweater—except for a big “D” on|be said about a unique type of sport that has as yet been overthe back—directed the band in the|!ooked on these glowing pages. This rather ingenious form of
A entertainment is engaged in for the most part by those intrepid

Yes—they ‘students who reside at Pine Hill, that pillar of theological truth

were coming on the floor now. The situated in the wilderness adjoining the Nortwest Arm. This

battle was really going
place. 5

As I remember now, son, the
names of those on one side were
Holmsley, Lafeville, Pelluet and
these were bolstered by two librarians, Prikeler and Johnston. ‘Yes, it
was going to take place after all. It
looked like it was going to be a
tough fight. The affair had started
whén a member of the faculty said
that a woman’s place was in
home; nay more, he even added that
a feminine ereature was ultimately
inferior to the male in every endeavour, including Science, Literature
and Commerce as well as, on a lower plane when they cared to attempt
it, Cooking and running the Family
Finances. This was just too much
for the ladies. To-night they were
going to prove—oh, the opening
whistle and the referee, quiet easygoing Ralston who had been especially secured for this game—poor
chap, he didn’t know what he was in
for—called the teams to centre floor
and spoke as follows: ‘‘Let’s have a
nice clean little game to-night—no
kicking, no slapping. Obey the
rules and play the whistle. Okay!
let’s go!

And away they went, son. Upholding the University males were
Stewart, Prince, Douglas, Wilson
and Jewitt. There were others but
these took the spotlight. The game
started disappointingly slow. The
women, deadly serious, were bidding their time, Prince, however,—
{ think it was Prince—finally got
hold of the ball and went tearing
down the floor. Up ahead loomed
Pelluet. They drew closer. Pelluet
put out a hand—the hand that had
dissected thousands of frogs—to
grab the ball, but unfortunately she
missed—the ball I mean. Prince
stopped short, winded by a blow in
the stomach that he thought must
have come from a cannon. Stewart,
however, took up the fight and in a
blazing burst of speed smoothly
dribbled down the floor, passed
Wolmsley, neatly sidestepped Lafeville and dodged around: tall Miss
Prikeler. Stewart was right in now,
right under the basket—the crowd
in bewilderment came to their feet
—and Stewart shot, sinking one of
the prettiest baskets ever witnessed
in the gym. and finished the most
sensational play ever seen in these
parts. Stewart turned, bowed—
what “a whistle.’ Yes, son, Ralston ran up and told him that he
shot in the wrong basket and had
chalked up two points for the ladies.

“Well, to make a long story short,
son, play see-sawed back and forth.
After Stewart’s sensational basket
tehre was no further scoring that
half. The teams retired, accompanied by the melodious strains of ““My
Girl’s a Crackerjack.” By means of
much seraping and running around
the men finally tied the score. However, whén regulation time was up,
the score was still tied. A period
of overtinte was allowed. Play was
cautious, checking’ was close. One
hour went by without a score. Two
hours, Finally it was decided that
if a basket wasn’t scored by the
stroke of midnight the game would
be called “no contest.” And that,
son, is the way my story ends. It’s
too bad that it had to end in a tie.
What do you think, son?”

“Oh, I don’t know. After
what more could be fairer.”

all,

Jerry Naugler’s
Orchestra

=)

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

the |

to take; game was originated in Francé where it was known as “combat

Veau’’. At Pine Hill it is referred to simply as “water-fightine”’.
g g

Many a time has a portly theolog
entered the building to be met with
a deluge of water flowing merrily
down the front stairs. Upon investigation he usually finds that a
group of uncultured engineers on
the annex have been
heaving buckets of water at one
another with cold-blooded brutality.
Some of the more ingenious Newfoundlanders on that floor have devised a System of leaving a full
bucket up against an unsuspecting
door so that when the occupants
open it they are startled on upsetting bucket that dumps its contents
all over their “well-swept” floor. A
generous dose of disinfectant poured
into the water insures the room a
nice clean swell for a week or 50.
This is an enjoyable pastime, particularly for those who initiate the
dead.

second floor

Many are the buckets that are
cumped down the stairs on the back
of those below, and many are those
who sneak up with a glass of erystal
cold water to dash against the back
unwary opponent when
such battles occur. The sight of a
studious individual dashing down
the hall with a raincoat over his
head and a pile of well-used books
under his arm is not uncommon,
Only a theolog ho has descended
from his heights of fantastic theorism to swim for shore. Many a
time has a med. student taken time
cut from the assiduous perusal of

sake! I want

ol some

study.”
There is yet another type of wa
ter-fighting that is carried on when |

a large group of hungry theologs is
gathered on the first floor of the
main building awaiting the dinnerbell. This action is . initiated by
Meds who tae pleasure in dropping
a large bag of icy cold water from
the third floor, which descends with
increasing velvety, according to physics formula 6A, and lights with a
resounding splash on the sacred
head of one of the theologs below,
or if the bombadier’s aim is bad it

to |}

lands on the “highly-polished” floor.

“The Pope,” the fatherly captain
of the Student’s Conucil, takes a dim
view of these watery battles. He
has sworn a grim retribution on
those who indulge in such practices.
He has issued a papal bull that a
“friendly exchange of water” is
o. k., but a “water fight” is not.
But the rules of this sport are as
yet unwritten, and nobody knows
where a “friendly-exchange of water” ends and a “water-fight” begins,

So now, gentle readers, if you
have been wondering why these
Pine Hill residents look so run-down,
you have your answer. If you ever
wan to see this unique sport being
played, don your raincoat and rubber boots and come down to jolly
Pine Hill.

Hockey Team to Have
Trans-Canada Tour

| After much discussion and a
| great deal of lobbying, the Student’s
Council has finally put through the
budget for the Dalhousie Hockey
Team’s trans-Cannada tour. This
was strongly objected to on the
grounds that ‘Dal’ did not win its
own league in Nova Scotia. However, this was soon overruled when
it was pointed out that competition
in the Maritimes is always much
keener than anywhere else (if not,
why would so many people leave)?
All players on the team, and their
supporters (to be chosen by lot at
the D.O.C.’s inspection of the C.0.
T.C.) will be granted one month’s
leave from classes, it was announced
by the Senate last night. Since the
examination period is so close this
will obviously lead to granting the
, students’ year.

The programme for the trip has
already been partly revealed. Since
so many hockey enthusiasts will be

| together, it is reported spirit will be
| high (too damn high). This will no
doubt be helped by various enter-tainments to be presented en route.

Best Wishes To

The Graduates

and Best Wishes for 1944
to the Students at Dalhousie

MARITIME TELEPHONE AND

TELEGRAPH

Where the

CO., LIMITED

College Men Congregate

Specialists in Smart Clothes for

Young Men.

*

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

112 SPRING GARDEN

ROAD

- +>

. i ;
o/s o>

_ i a ei
al ope a

mal
oe

a

aA

, ee aes
. a

a

=

 
