    
      

       
  

 

 

 

; ty CAMPUS

CLIPPINGS

BY JOHN HIBBITTS

 

 

. Agreement

‘The late Justice Holmes once de
-__ elared that human beings can always

a»

 
   
   
  

      
   
  
    
  
   
  
      
   

with the house.”

come to an agreement, if they only
try long enough. And he cited the
conversation of two Minnesota farm. ers who had not see'each other in a
long time:

“Hello, Anel! What have you
been doing ?”

“T been in the hospital.”

“That’s bad!”

“No, that’s good. I married the

“nurse.” Ls

“That’s good!”

_ “No, that’s bad; she’s got nine

children.”

“That’s bad!”

“No, that’s good;
house.”

“That’s good!”

she’s got a big

“ No, that’s bad; the house burned

down.”
“That’s bad!”

“No, that’s good; she burned up

“That’s good!” abet
“Yes, that’s good!”
—U. W. O: Gazette.

* *
Senior Engineers Get Commissions

Candidates for Ordnance from the

mechanical engineering ranks will
receive provisional second lieutenant
commissions if accepted by the board
and recommended by the Officer
Commanding. .C.O.T.C. candidates
other corps, if accepted and recommended, will go in as cadets.
* Eo *

A profession in Maryland opened
an examination paper and found a
letter which read:

“Dear Professor: .

If you sell any of these answers
to a humorous magazine please send
me my share.”

; * ke *
8-Day Break Decreed at McMaster

Lectures are being cancelled from
Monday to Wednesday of this week
in an effort to cure the usual midterm slump. The experiment being

tried has in view the fact that the

pressure of ordinary work and

_ special wartime duties has produced

a weariness in both students and
staif that is unusual.
ae ee

“Are the irons ready?”

“Yes, master, red hot.”

“Ts the oil boiling?”

“Yes, master, searing.”

“Ts the victim tied securely to the
massive chair?” °

“Yes, master, she cannot move.”

“O.K. Give her the $2.00 permanent.”

—McGill Daily.

 

Queen’s Reports 51 as Failures in
Midyear Tests.

Fifty-one students of Queen’s

University were reported to the

National Selective Service as not

| having achieved satisfactory standing in their first term’s work. of
these 21 were asked to withdraw

from the university and the remaining thirty must obtain Selective
Service permits before they are al
lowed to continue.

wi

 

—_—

“ a
ay tte ae

a a * ti
. a ct

eo

Pee CANADA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE:

Presenting ...
The Presidental

Nominees . . .

With interest in the forthcoming
Council elections running high, The
Gazette herewith presents an impartial sketch of the candidates who
are soon to run for the leading positions on the Students’ Council.

FOR PRESIDENT:

Art Titus needs little introduction
to Dal studenfs. Even those who
don’t know him personally, cannot
fail to have heard his name associated with various outstanding student activities. His recent efforts as
President of the Blood Donor Society have found ready support and
wide acclaim. .

Art, who hails from Yarmouth,
received his B.S.c. from Dal in 1942,
and is now in second year Med.
During the past year he has been a
member of the Students’ Council.
Art is also President of Sigma Chi,
and Secretary of Phi Chi Fraternities.

In his platform he will insist
strongly on the early presentation of
budgets to the Council, Art revealed
to the Gazette reporter. This would
prevent much of the misunderstanding and misgivings with regards to
the Council’s policies which was ‘so
evident this year.

Known and trusted by his classmates, and well respected by his
fellow students, Art Titus is an outstanding figure in the varied fields
of College activity.

Ted King, the enterprising Law
candidate for the Presidency, hails
from Brigus, Newfoundland. After
graduating from High School with
honors, Ted joined the ranks of the
working class, being employed by
the Buchan’s Mining Co. for a period
of three years. Here his leadership
came to the fore and Ted became
successively Vice President and
President of «the Buchan’s Workman’s Protective Union, which had a
membership of 1000.

Ted came to Dal in 1939 and received his B.A. last year. His scholastic record here was outstanding.
In first year law he led his class
with, first class distinctions, winning
both the Carswell Essay Prize and
the first year law Carswell Prize.

King has played an outstanding
part in Campus activities during his
five years at Dal. He has been successively Secretary-Treasurer, VicePresident and then President of Sodals Debating Society. Ted is also

| President of the Newfoundland Club,

Vice-President Effective Speaking
Club, and Secretary-Treasurer of the
Law Society. He has also received
a Gold D for Intercollegiate Debating.

He has taken an active interest in
sports, and is still playing in interfaculty hockey. Ted has been active

 
   


oe
Pe
aft:

= . oie
tae f, 2" 5]

—$<$_$<$<$<_$_$<$_$$_$_$_ EEE TEE LT

in almost every student activity on!

the Campus. especially the S.C.M.,
the Round Table Club, the Citizen’s
Forum Study Group, the Arts and
Science Society and Campus politics
in general.

King’s platform asks for more aggressiveness on the part of the
Council, a policy which Medicine,

‘}lacking time, is unable to pursue.

He also asks for the abolition of

\charges for ads in The Gazette re

   

onsored by various cam
| oe
com?
wanes!

;

. | There seems little doubt that the

aggressive and versatile Newfound
|land fireball will make the forth
at
nee 7
+k. u
7 .
an is
‘a '
$
i

: 2 ‘id - ie eee
g election @ close y contested
j ‘ 2 ahd e s - il

¥ rat A : a 2

ij j See.
i < i

> ! = aati te ee) :
ya se Shei ar

    
  

  
  
    

1. ABethebn
tres a? pe . » : ta

   

  
     
 

Si ay RR ay eee
‘gf ee Oa ze et a
eee irae a3 :
a we ee, 3) +e.
ie hae h oe ie
Pi an. he oS

. or =

ae,
‘3 a Cams

  

#1.

 

Titus,
Rally

 

Ted King, Law —or— Art Titus, Medicine

As a fitting climax to a week of hectic campaigning unparalleled in recent years at Dal, a student rally was held in
the Chem Theatre Thursday at noon for the purpose of introducing the rival candidates to the student body. Students were
greeted at the doors by enterprising lawyers who distributed
pamphlets eulogizing one of the candidates, while organized
cheering sections broke into exuberant frenzy at appropriate

intervals.
Titus Ill
Art Titus, unfortunately was unable to attend the meeting, due to
an emergency appendicitis operation
performed the previous evening. In

I. S.S. and the

Prisoners of War

In last week’s Gazette, something
was told of what is being done for
students behind the barbed wire in
enemy prison camps. Some of our
own Dalhousie boys are there now,
with sentries dogging their steps
and no hope of deliverance until
victory comes.

What can they do to fill in the
time? What a dreary monotonous
weary existence! “Cut off from
books, newspapers, news of the outside world, are they to be compelled
to waste the best years of their life,
just existing and going to seed?

Only a day or two ago the daily
press told the story of aprisoner still
in a German camp, who has written
and passed all the Law examinations
of a British university. How did he
do it? By means of the I.S.S. (International Student Service). It supplied the text books, writing materials etc, etc., had the exam.
papers sent to him, and made it passible for him to do it.

It is giving the same opportunity
to our boys in prison camps where
 

ever they are in enemy hands. I.S.S.

represenative visit the camps, see
the prisoners, find out what they
want to study and send them the
books.

The I.S.S. gets the money from
the contributions made by the students at home in the universities.
You remember Walter Murphy and
Dick Slipp, to name only two.
‘Woludn’t any student at Dalhousie
be glad to chip in and give them a
break. That is exactly what you
are to have the chance to do.

Caution Deposits

On March 7th when the elections
for the Student Council take place,
the L.S.S. will have a table set up
in the gymnasium, where you can
sign a paper giving your caution deposit,

Our caution deposits can change

the barbed wire camp into a university. Come on, everybody, and make

d Bs eae) , ithe ee 2
a) A Ae freee, a |

— > a ~_s

 

 

King Electioneering
Brings Ovations, Cheering

Kr ven oc as See
oa

. Sia

She

e’s contribution worth while! |

 
 

a A ade s

z

A ar

ee eee aoe ree See
i. we ie * at.
A, aA ee se “ a? a |
q a re ' i,
7 ae ook wt - ’
, oo ——. S
e ' Lo 7"

uled

HALIFAX, N. 8., MARCH 3, 1944

 

his absence, Ed Archibald spoke and
engaged in a lively debate with
lawyers who argued that Med students with wives would have no time
for Council: duties.

King Acclaimed

Ted King, the other presidential
candidate was finally able to get a
few words in between the enthusiastic cheering and applause of the
audience. He assured the’ meeting
that his previous experience in Mining Companies Unions fitted him for
the post on the Council.
Ann Saunderson, a nominee for
the Vice Presidency advocated the
early presentation of budgets as the
main plank in her platform. Larry
Sutherland, the other nominee urged
more cooperation between D,A.A.C,
and Council. He was followed by
Doug Clark, candidate for D.A.A.C.
representation on the Council.

Tongue-Tied

The two nominess for the Glee
Club Presidency offered striking
contrasts in verbosity. Art Hartling
after making a very effective entrance amidst hearty co-ed applause
looked up sheepishly and said “I
really don’t know what to say er—
ah—ah—ah” and retired amidst even
more thunderous acclamation Abe
Sheffman,: striding to the fore,
broadeast his plans for a Glee Club
Show in the Gym every Friday night.
He asserted that more co-operation
and participation on the part of
students in Glee Club activities was
necessary. Wholesale discussion by
the enthusiastic assemblage brought
proceedings to a close.

In Sympathy

To L. M. Norman, The Dalhousie Gazette, on behalf of the entire student body, extends its
sincerest sympathy on the sudden
death of his mother last week.

A delegation of his Dalhousie

friends attended the funeral and
sent a wreath of flowers in memory of the deceased.

x * +

—And to Phyllis Blakely, our
condolences on the death of her
father early this week. :

 

 
   
   

 

SE

Radio-Debate Win Over U.N.B.
Advances Sodales in M.I. D.L.

McLeave, McLaren Out-Argue Opponents

Sodales Debating Society advanced another step along the
Road to the Intercollegiate Debating Championship of the Maritime Provinces last Sunday afternoon when two members of the
Society defeated a team from the University of New Brunswick
in a radio debate presented from the studios of CHNS. The
visiting team consisted of Ralph Crowther and Fred Davidson.
The Sodales debaters were Bob McCleave, Rexton, N. B., and

 

James McLaren, Ottawa.

“Delayed” Broadcast.
The debate, originally scheduled
for Wednesday night, was presented
by means of a delayed broadcast.

The judges were Magistrate R. J.
Flinn; Dr. F. G. Morehouse, Supervisor of Schools, and Mr. Fred Lane,
Manager of N. S. Savings, Loan and
Building Society.

The subject of the debate was “Resolved that Canada should become a
part of the United States”, the interpretation being that each of the
provinces should join as separate
states. Dalhousie argued on the
side of the negatiye.

The arguments of the U.N.B. debaters were confined mainly to
stressing the economic advantages
which would be gained by union with
the United States. They also pointed
out that such a move would facilitate Canada’s defence against the
foreign attack.

Military Ramparts Abroad.

“The sword of attack, like the
shieid of defence, lies on the foreign

soil,’ MecCleave argued, explaining
that our military ramparts lie in the

 

T-SQUARE

The banquet is now over and everyone is still alive and “kicking.”
The talk on electronics given by Mr.
Ryan was much appreciated, . and
very interesting.

The winner of the Bob Walter
Award was given, namely our engineer, Gerald Lantz. This award is
given to the member of the graduating engineering class that fulfills
the qualities by which Bob Walter
was so well known. He was an allround sportsman and scholar.

The engineers also had two interfaculty games last week. The both
games against medicine. The hockey game was played at King’s
rink and Medicine falling victims to
the Engineers. In basketball, however, the Medicine team made up
for their loss in hockey by taking
the basketball game, played in the
gym.

Responsible for the hockey victory were Doug. Clark, Gus Oakley,
Burgess and Duff. All of them forwards keeping the Medicine boys
busy guarding this _net. Soft ice
was a hindrance to both teams and
kept them from playing their best.
Lantz kept our lines from getting
out of hand and changed the lines
which managed the team to victory.

There will be a meeting of the
zero club in a couple of weeks time.
Mike Waterfield will preside over
it.

A vote will be taken for the new
president of the horizontal club.
Honored by being nominated for
president were “Kipper” Grey, Dick
Currie and Dave Burgoyne.

for March 7th”

Gazette

STUDENT PUBLICATIO

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

| far-flung outposts
'Commonwealth. He stressed our de
(“Delayed” in more than one sense). |

a ——? 7
: * rf as aad Lica ieee t ’ Wy tas alte ;

A

lt

  

No. 17

of the British

velopment as an independent political entity and referred to our laws,
habits of government, and cultural
heritage as evolving directly from
Britain and the British.

“America is primarily interested
in the Americas,” he concluded.
“Canada locks to Britain and,
through her, to the world.”

Political and Fiseal Autonomy.

“Under the Union Jack we are an
independent, self-governing nation,”
McLaren said, “Under the Stars and
Stripes we would be but nine states
in fifty-seven—a paltry eight per
cent minority.”

Annexation. is not the way for
Canada to achieve the much-discussed benefits of material luxuries,
he argued. “If we want to careen
about the heavens in leather upholstered helicopters complete with. fluorescent lighting, vitamin-plus cereal
foods, and the latest bevy of pin-up
girls’—then the solution is through
the economic, not the political field.

Great Present, Greater Future.

Having shown that “the ties of
Empire” in no way bind the Dominion to act other than in her own interests, McLaren proceeded to deseribe the heights Canada had reached economically, to her present status as third largest trading nation
in the world.

He concluded by asserting that
“no country whose political and er”
nomic evolution has reached such en
viable proportions would care to
throw aside its independence, i*s
heritage, its ideals, and a great fr

ture which lies in plain view .°"r
the bridge of youth.”

It was the first time in a ever
many years that a Dalhousie dhe ~—
had been presented over the air en”
the subsequent flow of congratultory messages to all concerned >+tests to the success of the progrem
The suggestion has been made thot
Sodales try to present at least one
debate each year in this manner.

 

Juniors Announce

March 24 Prom Date

Members of the Class of ’45 have
announced the annual Junior Prom.
usually one of the most gala and
successful of yearly Dal dances. wil!
be March 24, at the Lord Nelson
In attendance will be Jerry Naugler’s Orchestra to provide the choicest in musical fare, and the danee
committee has hinted at several
“special attractions”, including, it is
rumored, conga lines, to add color
and variety to the evening.

The chaperones will be Professor
and Mrs. C. L. Bennet, and Dr. and
Mrs. Bell, while special guests will be Dr. Dixie Pelluet and Dr. Hayes. “

Tickets can be obtained from Art |
Hartling, Les MacLean, Irma MacQuarrie, Kay Harrison, Joan MeGinnis, or George Smith. aay

14 Sa a
yh .. Vs
"a it. # A.

ee
| Bs a . , fy ie ;

Pree st igh a nF, SME ae fl Ph ke Ne

are, : rs fans > ee “60 at ny + iY no) i
: eel > i!

F 4 |
fy a
” = ¢ ie

an

  

  
  
     

  

ae wopt
et es
oe cei

en.
I
is =
a ae
A esr ==
ot Aa" FiSFS ie

rehy
= ; a he ay
- ele har tand |e gry — ; |
i baie be ax a os

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE ~
Sih;

Se LETTER TO THE EDITOR
; St >» Ba re heeere ee Dear Sir,— At this point a few suggestions
_It was with approval that I readj may be in order. Instead of distrib
in the Gazette that the class of ’44] uting the present questionnaire why

was to publish a year book, but it| not send each graduating student a

was with disapproval that I regard-| note requesting him to ask a friend

ed the questionnaire on my room-| to write a short note on himself. A

mate’s table. The information re-| specified length could’ be set of

quired for a year book is not a mere| course. This scheme would save the
statistical record of a student’s col-| editors a lot of hard work and relege achievements but a glimpse in-} sult in a clear portrait of the stuto the character and personality of | dent even though it would be necesthat student. A glance at last sarily small and incomplete,
year’s Pharas will illustrate the Undoubtedly arguments can be
point and a comparison with the! found against this plan. But modi
“Axe,” Acadia’s year book, will] fications are possible and other

prove it beyond a doubt. (Incident-| ideas may be forthcoming. Some- ")

ally “Pharas” costs $2.50 and is| thing must be done to make this

bought by only a few of the stud- year’s “Pharos” a work worthy of

ents, while the “Axe” is distributed | Dalhousie. MEDIUM orMILD

free to all students at Acadia). I hope this idea will be considered

While perhaps the serious-minded| in the right quarters and that other

students of Dalhousie have not quite| students will be encouraged to air PL AYER'S N AVY CUT CIGARETTES

as much time to spend on trivialities | their views on this matter, prefer
as their brethren in Wolfville they | ably in the “Gazette” where all may
could perhaps learn a few lessons| see them.

and make “Pharas” at least half as Thanking you for this space,

good as the “Axe.” Even then it I remain,

would be a 500 per cent improve- Yours respectfully, DALHOUSIANS ur ts

ga G.R.V. for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
a CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

CROSS-WORD PUZZLE — KINLEY’S

490 RARNINGRON HERRERT eT AT ea NELSON HOTEL
oo i wl a
ttt pt
vt 2 Pe
i a
PORE CCC Pe
N telat oN
Ce
ee Ne ae
roe ce er
all ESS a lO
mi} gee
6 Bl
eg Ober dt

 

 
 

1869— “The Oldest College Paper in America”
d in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
yt be assumed that they represent the opinion of

mr

     
 
 

 

_
Fe

toad sear way vi aiaite ts shea i a a eee
RPO PR SNe re es bf ap e wean gseists andes KeVIN Barry
i RW Aenea UV sekiaCARiG eae hb Rohl a lciaio Vice sta« o-0- porte. MeLaren
EM ena A ATELY eis ale we, a buerels'y o's wee caOD McCleave
DaPRI ey ale Neue balsa vale bin sit lees an #8 owe ee ene y ata Ee Pope
Bea rae sa ah tie eels els sone lou Collins
Ua aie bak ts awe ppp anes A Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
PRTLO Ms ia Gale slant gfe ua dante dig. veces biekis.c so LAUTTO Smith
WANE arse S o VU ee ae ey Canc wbloyas John Hibbetts
2 ONE OSG AEE Se EA ens a ti ag Don Corringham
_Campbeli, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley
l, Marg Morrison, Eileen Phinney, Neil McKelvie

    

 

      
        
   
  

   
     
       

          
      
   

            
       
     
    

    
 

MORE BEER, BIGGER GLASSES

traditional funereal hush of Dalhousie Student Council
vas rudely shattered this week when the Presidential
, Mr. King of Law and Mr. Titus of Medicine, flashed
1 the opening phases of an election campaign that
) portend a great deal of interesting controversy beSupporters of the rival nominees. The Gazette is
y non-partisan in campus politics, and could hardly be
' with two such equally matched opponents. To both
we extend our best wishes, and congratulations on
spirit back in what was rapidly becoming a mere
hulk, an empty ritual to be elided through as rapidlv
gle once a year. They have made a stirring start
1 successful election.

t more than oratory and posters are needed to complete
sfactory election. Just as necessary, and much more
cant, are the votes of students—Not the votes of the
y who are interested in every campus affair, but the vote
sry student in every faculty on the two campi. The
usie Students’ Council is founded on a system of free
on; to function effectively it must be assured of the in:
of all the students, which can best be shown by the
;. Every student has the right to express his opinion on
on day; it is both a duty and a privilege which should be
ised on March 7.

 
 

Rn eons Se as

     

 

 
 

 

 

  

 
    
   
      

 

 
 
     
 

    
 

    
 
 
 

        
     

       

       
 
 

After any Show | Aquamarine - 
Gem Of The Sea

or The seablue color of a
fine aquamarine—a variety of beryl—is respons
Before any Meal sila ot isda:

Large transparent crys
 
    
       

 
 

           
         
             

    
 

             
        
    

 

 

   
   

GRATULATIONS . ..

- . . to the Delta Gamma Society on its very successful
Hawkins Week. Although weather conditions hampered
of the program, Friday night’s dance went off without a
, one of the most successful this year. The Delta Gamma
of the Gazette, although held up by producing difficulties,
a good job, particularly since many of the staff had little
) previous newspaper expericnce.

Plans are now underway for the Engineering Society Edi
 
  

tals come from its chief
Think of ... source, Brazil, and are
; comparatively inexpensive.
The Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
‘Gr een Lantern Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Barrington St., Halifax. N. 8.

  

          
            
   

    
    
 

Fader’s Drug Stores ||| raz NATIONAL FISH CO.

      
    
 
    
     
   
  
 
  
   
  
     
   
   
  
           
  

    
 
 
      
 

HORIZONTAL HORIZONTAL (Cont.) ene (Cont.) 135 HOLLIS STREET Limited
the Cazatte ich j 1-Slender part of a |44—Restrain 12-To make clear i eas
the Gazette which will probably appear next week. Gp ue Guner Weoarcce sass ia ances 29 COBURG ROAD Fresh Fish Specialists

LA es ; 7—~Departed 7-Cauterize 15-A small valley 8
eet le 8-Large lake 8—Jumps 17-Bless with the sign HALIFAX Nova Scotia HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA
ete 10-Newly married 49-To box of the cross (Scot.)
ete woman 51-Constellation 18-Young giris
a 11-Selis 52-Troubles 19-Wigwams
yee 13-Stagger 53-Guide 20—Rubbers
eer 14-Five hundred six 55-Classifies 22-Reclaims

yi 16-Man’s name 57-Rescue 24-Tine

ae 18-A number 58-Greek goddess of (|25-Twirls F 9

me 19~Torment discord 28-Employ
oe Be 21-Resembling wings |59-Mocked , 30-Small lump of butter
ee 23-Assist 34—-Greases
> | 24—House to house VERTICAL 35-Applauds

dq, merchants 36—Hebrew month
rite a 26—Contend. with 1-Labor 38-Images
he ht ae A 27—-To make certaln 2-Terminate 39-—Covers ALWAYS PURE
5 29-—o add 3-Wanted 42-—Closer
, 31-Mops 4—Correct 43—Obliterated :
"3 32-A continent 5—-Anger 46-Small rugs
G ND Raf. 33—Earliest period of | 6-Rov 48-Strikes ALWAYS RICH
f: he : STS 7 em = Cenozoic era 7—Mixture of black 50—-Peruse
ike i dial Seer ree 37-To lure and white §2-Dry
eae ei) 40-Nothing 9-Girl’s name 54-Evening (Poet.)
ee eee ee or ee ALWAYS WHOLESOME

__-‘ THE DEMOCRACY OF THE GOOD EARTH
i It is an old saw which says that “Death is the great
’ It eomes quickly to the tongue and as quickly passes
e tongue. Yet, if one stops to consider, one realizes how

   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
  
    

     
 
  
 
   

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

co

 

caught up in this homely phrase. It is quick on the
es of the rich and the poor alike. Almost unconsciously
len recognize that Death is no respecter of persons, and
1ere we are neither rich nor poor in death but as one.

this short article was inspired by an ode written by the
can poet William Vaughan Moody. In it he tells of the
death of a white colonel and many men of his coloured
in one of their country’s battles. Moody tells how
and his men were buried in a common grave and
ne dissolving of flesh unto flesh “in nature’s busy
oeracy”, and the growth of flowers above the heroes’

 

  
 
 
  
  
  

 
 
    
 
   
  

Are You Competing For

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

   
 
   
   

The James DeMille Prizes, $200 and $1007.
The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY

7.30 to 9.30 Dilton 85% pln Aiea The Joseph Howe Prizes, $200 and $100?

 
  
   

    
  
 

oT

we need, more than ever before, to realize that
nness and the abuse of human energy on earth turn
ith us at death. How much better it were if we realized
ytherhood of man today? If we would do this the prob€ post-war tomorrows would be more easily solved.

lay the earthly rich and poor, men of all colours and
re dying, and are being given to the good earth and
members of the democracy of the dead.
ree to acknowledge the democracy of the good
t be forced if necessary to acknowledge the
id the brotherhood of man? |
after having endured suiteging and the’
and pain, that the life of a man is too
be sacrificed on the altar of war. We
t greed and sin in general are denying

      

 

The Mushkat Memorial Essay Prize, $40?
SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years.

  
 
  
   

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

The Overseas League Essay Prize, $40?

  
   
 

   

 

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

     
 

 
  
  
 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

The Mushkat Prize is open to students in Arts

and Science only; the others are open to students in all faculties,

   

ACADIA STORES

*

GROCERIES — FRUITS
MEATS, ETC.

*

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA

 

 
  
   
 
 

   
 
   

For complete details see announcements on the
bulletin boards.

 

  
 

Arrange your work to provide essays suitable for

 
   
 
  

   

7 ee anioll in five pages. “He
would have been given an even highjer mark, the top mark in fact, but
| the. professor didn’t want to discourage him (so he explained). Hartz
wondered why the professor did explain; after all, why curry a man
down and then tell him he was good
enough for the top anyway.

With a certain flair for writing,
Vtarte early in the fall made application to join the Gazette staff. It
was composed of the usual motley
bunch that always is it lot, with
some fair journalists, one really brilliant one, and the rest of the names
on the masthead. Asked what work
he liked to do, by the pale-eyed,
overtired editor, he said anything.
He got precisely that, in extremely
small doses.

Only one member of the staff was
a trained newspaperman,

  
 

 
 

S AIL in all, it was surpris- |
7 . did as wells as he was doing;

    
   
  
  
  
      
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
    
     
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 

i TIL and ae a perennial
of t the professor. Both were

=

N JNIVERSALITY

Commerce — Big BuS$ine$$ !

‘h { » 15 the age where Democracy is paises a petulant ery of free
The first thing to con$ider: commercemen are pretty canny people.
| a: the more intricate detail of advanced $tudy may be lo$t to

hat or buSives$ in$ight. The principle$ of our pape: living being
ee are, “Tripe” believe$ firmly that anyone can | learn, from $aid

6 can one make a $ go the longe$t di$tance? Many a gleaner in
_of life cra$he$ into the problem. We can only offer a few $age

er boy. Remember, once a $ervice i$ given to er: and it caavicl
med by the giver ($uch a$ getting to your de$tination, eating the
ading the paper), you car readily forget paying him. If the bill$
- ot he won't Sue for them; the lea$t or mo$t he will do i$ to

a $ay you don’t want them. Ina layne city, people can avoid
year$ in thi$ way. You will be able to live off the fat of the

ost incurring any as and ie ju$t within your right$,

‘find eourselt unceremoniou$ly booted out of Such ‘plases ag
}and $tore$, where $tandard price} prevail, you may Still get
$ential$ by which you may live. Remember that barter i$ the
orm of $ub$i$tence, and go out in the country and trade that old
aph of Aunt Emma for egg$, or milk, or butter How much of
aff do you really néed to live on? Why, deuce take it, mo$t of
farniture on which tea-guzzler$ drink away your pittance at $ocial
¢ ald well be rid off, getting rid of two mill$tone$ with one $wift
ke, and making money to boot. That could be traded profitably for
¥, which could be $tabled in the re$ultant empty place. ($o what if
@ your wife—love i$n’t everything!)

-eonclu$ion of the above i$ that by living $imply, and wtihin the
legality, you will $urvive. We could enhance thi$ by adding a
onomie point: where a lower $tandard of living mu$t nece$$arily
il, then people will live within that prevail. (“Tripe’$ dogma of the
a$ible rupee”), The Indian and hi$ loin-cloth, the E$kimo and blua e examples. The people of low economic $tandard are an example
Why not bie like the E$kimo, the Indian, and cut down your ex1 ‘that: way? By living in a loin cloth half the time; much clohting
ans ig avoided. By wearing warpaint and a feather, hundred$ of you
frighten off bill collector$. By learning to squat on rug$, to eat with
$tick$, money i$ gained.

} hold, thi$ exce$$ive privation i$ not nece$$ary. We have written
the way to live with your neighbour}. We have not a$ yet con$idthey are to live with you. There i$ only one principle: “Never
he other fellow a break.”

yon; are owed money, take it out of him. Forget that you wuold
ite a minute if he demanded hig due$; forget that you won't pay

‘up—your wife? (That come$ under the Separate $tudy of amu$ea ae home, and i$ not to be sents with the actual erousie for

Save ieee of sibs way$ in aa your ay a) book may be
or ote kept from_ capita ve al if you are

ay phen, and : only then, do nies | with condeSeension and the
to them that taal oan the $ $

by the

    
 

y. Hoe atten
aii 4 LBS re

rf r
4! le

name of Cutter. A worker in sum
|mertime in daily newspapers, and a

partime worker in the winter, he
could write almost as fast as most
people think, and altogether in the
run of a day did 3,000 words or more
of copy, sometimes stretching his
daily average to 15,000 words, as he
liked to do his college work in massive gobs. Hartz found that observing him at work was an inspiration
to newspaper style, but on second
thought did not quite like the style.

The rest of the staff were amateurs at the game, and some were
surprisingly good. They turned out
the society-style of reporting, which
could hardly be helped, but did it
on a professional basis. With training, and the editorial scissors, their
work could be pruned into something
quite readable. With more uninhibition than in the regular newspapers,
college publications although catering to a small class were impressive
as landmarks in sanely healthy
journalism, where no punches were
pulled,

Hartz had at first a tendency to
write his articles from the sequence
of events angle, that is to say, he
would start from the beginning of
any event and describe it to the end.
Cutter told him, that at any time
reporters covering legislatures might
first find legislation against wifebeating introduced and then really
active social measures; “put the
part about the social legislation first
—always put the meat of the story
first; after all, everybody beats their
wife”.

For a while Hartz was dazed between the theme writing and the
newspaper styles, and quite confused
the professor on several occasions by
such TIME -ese as “Satantics” “glam.| orons”, (co-eds), and “Miltones” (the
poetic timbre in that writer’s works).
But after a time he confused neither;

»| by hauling his hair back to his ears

in English he adopted the proper approach mentally to assimilating pure
English; by slopping a hat half way
down his face and dangling a cigaret
from one side of his mouth he got
in shape for the other.

He wasn’t too bad a writer at all.

(to be continued.)

WITHOUT
PREJUDICE

There was a great storm. The
wind blew, the snow fell, traffic was
halted. The radio station ceased to
broadcast, the reason: McCleave was
about to take to the air. But all
joking aside, he did a grand job, and
won laurels for Sodales and the University, in a crowning victory over
U.N.B.’s. debating team.

*x* * *€

The Law School is proud to present a candidate for the presidency
in the forthcoming Students’ Council
elections, Ted King is in the field
and take it from us, he’s the man
for the job. With a brilliant scholastic reeord, valuable experience in
the field of administration, and more
at home on the platform then at Pine
Hill, he is worthy of support, for
efficient Seay aration of student
affairs.

 

¥ *

_ All winter Lorraine has been apprehensive of the ice, and exercised
the greatest care. Indeed it almost
reminded one of the pantomine of
Mary and her little lamb to see these
two coming to college. Last week
it happened. The little lamb fell and
sprained her foot. After a week’s
convalescence we’re glad to see her
back,

Follow the rest of the boys
for your Footwear to

SHANE’S SHOE STORE
397 BARRINGTON ST. 3-9144

 

  
 
 
 
  
  
   

   
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
 
    

Ares

ales a a

as 7 x, i Pe , iA <* Je + 3
a et ht Bs el A oe ; i eo Te 13! pee 2 22.) pf." *i r
fet th cr rt las | ead at mi fi ' i + ’ as ‘ ”
1's oP ae”. ie / a Te ee : \ + 4 > a é ¥
- COA Tes ew i . » a. 3 4 te 4 . 7
he etl a Ay Pencitt ate ° r
ae Pe ete E : es eae 7 s *
cet re cite * ; i iS; va t
AAae Ae lies a ‘ ‘ 4 : 4 . .
J. i“ 7 . 4
.
i
r
+

tc : fe fue
ay yA , q F .
-—
4 4 c

ui i

"o be *

eh itanin Plans Weekly What oe : ;
Dance With Entertainment [wy Hitler a

AN INTERVIEW WITH THE GAZETTE tae
By Abe Sheffman, as told to R. J. McCleave

Planning to wake up the Glee Club, give it more life and
add to its interest for a 100% student body and not the mere

handfuls which take advantage

candidate for presidency of the Club, has offered a forthright
program on proposed club activities.
ground of entertainment and more enter tainment, is to include
more people in its activities, and for larger audiences than the
pitiful handfuls, about one-tenth of the total student body,

which now dot the Gymnasium.

Sheffman, who comes from St. John’s, Newfoundland, has
been active in college dramatics, appearing there at Memorial
College many times as an actor, and perpetually as business
actor
moments or Thespiantics include warblings of the divine Newfoundland sea chanty, and theme song of the fishing boys, “The

manager. An accomplished

Squid Jiggin’ Ground”’.

At Dalhousie, he showed his wares
capably in the 1943 play, “Coming
of Age”, which was winner of the
Connolly Shield.

“T want to make the Glee Club the
most popular society on the campus,”
says Law School’s idealist. “My
main purpose is to have more entertainment, by more people for more
people.”

He continned, in Churchillian reminiscence: ‘‘So far the Glee Club has
been like an epileptic—spasmodically
three or four times a year coming
out with a half-hearted entertainment which draws less than 10% of |
the student body. I want to give
sure-fire entertainment to draw everybody to the Gym.” |

And here’s the program. To the |
initiated in the barbarous practices
of running up against a stonewall of
indifference when the newromer to
the campus wants a chance to join
the activities which won’t take up
too much of his time, it’s manna
from Heaven.

First, says the students’ candidate,
why let only a few enjoy the adyvantages of the Glee Club, because
naturally only a few can join in such
limited activities as three or four
plays. Instead, the raconteur of
stories, the girl with the beautiful |
voice who can sing but has no|
chance, the tap dancer, the panto-'
mime artist, the flotsam and jetsam,
the sophisticate and the jester,
should have their chance.

Variety shows are the answer.
Such shows could be put on at hos-|
tels, too, at no expense, to give Dalhousie a name in service work. Little

 

 

 

 

OXFORD

Monday = Tuesday - Wed. |
“OLD ACQUAINTANCE”

and
“GOOD FELLOWS”

 

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“SWEET ROSIE O’GRADY”
with Betty Grable

 

a a a Coke” “Th fuk fe

Among the British you hear

going is rough. It’s Thumbs up. The Canadians have introduced another just as cordial: Have a “Coke.”’ It means
Let’s be friends to both CWAC and WREN. From Ottawa
to the Seven Seas, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes
zis the gracious introduction between kindly-minded folks.

The Coca-Cola Company of er eee 2 Halifax

 
  

 

... or how to be at ease in Lancashire

    

   

Prizes and oportunities are still
awaiting those who plan to enter
the Gazette contest, “What to do
with Hitler after the war is won”. 4
of its facilities, Abe Sheffman, Answers should be in to the office e

or feature editor by Mareh 15, and ae
no entries (unless at the point of a
gun), will be accepted after that ,
date. Fi

So far our bevy of answers have
mostly come from provincials. Only
one Dalhousie answer to date has
been received.

His slogan, run on a back
and pianist, his lesser

 

DIANA SWEETS

Fe Meats a Wy TEA ROOM
time seing: lost to s udents ¥ | 0 be 370 Spring Garden Road
merly — if in any activities — spent | 38-9754

hours learning lines of “Aunt Mag- |
gie’s Day of Bliss”, there would be|
more active participants in the Club. |
Second, says the students’ candi-|
date, entertain the students as much |
as possible. Why should all the |
shows be put on in the Gym? Why |
not have peppy shows followed by |
the oft-mooted weekly dance. And | SIGHT SPECIALISTS
novelty dances, plenty of them, with || Y.M.C.A. Building Halifax
life and sparkle (the Sadie Haw kins | Phone 3-6881
is the most popular of the year). |

We Cater to Collegians

 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS

 

 

GARRICK ORPHEUS

Saturday to Friday

“WHERE ARE
YOUR CHILDREN?

Monday - Tuesday - Wed.

“BEFORE I HANG”
“ISLAND OF DOOMED MEN”

|
|
|
oO
|
|
|

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

my

JACKIE COOPER
and PATRICIA MORRISON

“CASANOVA IN BURLESQUE”
“THE RIDER’S DEADLINE”

i ner =

- of

 

 

 

CASINO

ALL WEEK
STARTING SATURDAY

*

WHAT A |
WOMAN

ROLALIND RUSSELL
BRIAN AHERNE |

Capitol

THOUSANDS
CHEER

ALL STAR CAST

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

THE IRON
MAJOR

with
PAT O'BRIEN

   
  
   
   
   
  

  

  
  
   
   

, 7
ne fda

a friendly greeting when the

  

“Co Coca-Cola

   
  
    

    

 

It's natural for popular names to. NE
acquire friendly abbr wiacioos. x. 4
ts Ww as hear CocuCala ere

called ** ~~ pig.
« ca a

t a ohteae ‘ok

; ee tlt ae ens

> _ ‘ age A aD oY YE ett
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
    
  
    
  
  
   
 
 
   
    
    
    
 
   
  
  

IDELINES

Pie: hh a recent issue Ken MacKinnon, President of Students’

il, drew a rather touching and moving picture in his reply
napus criticism. MacKinnon, however, as those on the
‘could see, very deftly sidestepped the fundamental issue

_ the hockey club get a thousand dollar budget, if at the same
| time the basketball budget was not interferred with. Mac- Kinnon, in his letter, kindly informed us that the only reason
_ he is playing hockey this year is because there are not enough,
'_ players to fil all positions. (He even mentions a player who
"wu verify this statement.) We might say it is rather bighearted of MacKinnon to help the boys out in this way, not to

: fe: ‘mention his signing of the budget that gave the hockey club

C

ip After a long, hard, uphill struggle the basketball manage"ment, however, has been granted a considerable sum which will

' enable the team to finish their League matches, although all
"meats have been entirely cut out. For this year the die is cast,

- but next year, with conditions slightly changed, we sincerely
| __ hope that basketball will come into the sunshine of a better day.

a ance in the gym when a grand triple-thriller will be staged. By
a

return engagement, which will be featured by the sharp shoot
e _ Joan “Ivan” Silver. The second match of the evening will bring
_ Dalhousie Tigers who are just itching to get another crack at

- the Mt. A, players. And the last item on the triple-thriller
ihe will be for everyone—males and females, spectators and players

 eolleges may become better acquainted and where entertainment may be had for all. ?

4
a

| f Two weeks ago it was our pleasure to visit Mt. A. and what
' _ impressed us most was the backing the College gave to their
ee ze _ teams, the enthusiasm and spirit which was noticeable over the
| entire campus. Long before game time the gym began to fill
- _ in and when the opening whistle was blown not even standing
i a room was available. The crowd was noisy, excited, enthusiastic:
| __‘ every time the ball touched the basket rim the spectators would

_ £noisly arise — giving advise, cheering, and generally yelling
[| ~—r—s themselves hoarse—and the ball went zooming towards the

| _— Spirited horse who bounces his rider up and down in a rhyth_ metic movement, the crowd going up as the ball touched the

— backboard and then going down for a breather as the play con
| _—s tinued around centre floor. ;

_ ~~ When the boys’ Intermediate team played S.F.X. at the
tatters gym the enthusiasm was again at a high pitch, and they

gave the players great support throughout the game.

_ So you, Dalhousians, don’t forget Saturday night, featuring
two games and a dance which will undoubtedly prove to be the
outstanding performance of the season. Turn out and watch
“Tvan’ ‘Silver as she solidly stops any Mt. A. coeds that may
-have illusions of getting past her for a basket! Turn out and

. be watch the graceful defensive work of blond Jo Robertson and| ¥%
_ the accurate sniping of forwards Saunderson, Rosenblum and | #3
' Cox! Turn out and watch romantic Al Farquhar who should

have an inspired evening because Mary will be present; and
come to see some almost uncanny long distancé shooting as
_ Burnie Ralston sinks them from forty feet out! And lastly,
_ Way and cannot possibly help from enjoying yourself! See you
at the game.

oe ‘ i x ‘

 

i. ios

rt
~* il] | Fr
ih

 

“

a”

|| Where the

7
» tis
ye
he i
| hw
sim
a. ae

———

i
= lm

A
"i

r

ars /
ony
og Be rs
&
<"
wy ] Oh

‘ian
va!

 

ey Pee Pgh t

et

ee

College Men Congregate

— 4
4

Specialists in Smart Clothes for
Young Men. ~

 

Air Force Swamp Dal

Well, Saturday night should see an outstanding perform-| They can only win if they have lots

the triple-thriller we refer to the bunch of lovelies coming down | about it Dalhousians? Turn out and,
from Mt. Allison to meet our well-portioned Tigeresses’ in a| support your team to victory!

a “ing of Saunderson and Rosenblum and the hefty guarding of|ing for you! Lineups:

- together the fast-breaking boys from Sackville and our own Ralston |S Greer’ 2, McKelvey, ‘Git
_—as the basketball court will do a quick change and reappear! Poulton 5, Hutton 2, McLeod 12,
_ as a dance floor, where accompanied by soft music the two|Lewis 2, Wiselburg 6.

basket so many times that the crowd reminded us of a high-|'

_ turti out because you are assured of good entertainment all the e

1 ya ele OTe) PB aie rt aie ge eS ease ae a eed MU IDS aT ARIA TY gti ak DEE ae
Se a ate ot : ar ws Pi rey a 7 ee Nee AR re MUCUS ert eS a a ree rs cy ‘
= Ee at ih aT Dg. be = a * Oe ae aN te ts / : af

J , if * % A iiee ii ew 4 ; ios %
Mes ae Cdr : oie: ry ie . ; ad ; ; en ¥
ME ee cya Mama
oor "ey ue ik 1 - ord Po rn ent ;
Poe eens’ Kad ¥
out = # “<
a” ne* ip —_
a I

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Mount A. Tangle Saturday Night:

 

 

Tigers to Play Mount A.

Last Wednesday Dalhousie resumed her play in the Halifax
Senior Basketball League when she was defeated by the Air
Force team ot the tune of 31-17. The play was pretty well one
sided as the Airman rode roughshod over the determined
collegians. Ralston led the scoring for Dal with 8 points and
Farquhah followed with 5.

The first period opened with the
Air Force taking the lead. The
Tigers could not hit the stride that
they had in former games. Even
the coming of Green and Ralston on
to the floor could not stop the tally.
At half-time the score stood at 21-4,
the only Dal baskets being made by
Farguhar and Ralston

 

Cubs Play St. F. X.

Early last Monday evening morning the Dal. Cubs dragged themselves out of bed to journey to Antigonish to play St. Francis Xavier
University in basketball. The game
was played on the St. F. X. floor
and the Cubs were defeated 55-35.
The Cubs were strenthened by several Senior players.

The long, narrow St. F.X. floor
had the Dal. team baffled at first
and the Xaverians ran up a lead of
several points. It was not until the
last part of the first half that the |
Cubs began to catch up. But it was
not enough and at. half-time the!
score stood at 23-19. It had raked!
for a while as if the Dalhousians
were going to win, but the attack
launched by the Ivish in the second
half dispelled that hope. Both
teams checked hard throughout the
game, but the smart shooting of
Money and Ritchie was too much
for the Haligonians and at half
time St. F, X. was ahead by 23-19.

After a long and not very restful
train ride the gold and black squad

In the second half of the game the
Tigers showed a little more organization and outscored their opponents
3 points. Farquhar and Ralston
were the teeth of Dal’s attack,
making 3 and 6 points respectively
in this half. Many times during the
game the Dal players intercepted Air
Force passes under the Tigers’ basket and began a play which should
have meant a score, but most of the
time the tall guards of their opponents snagged the ball before it
could be shot. However, the team
showed lack of fight in the fact of
the strong attack of the Airman.

The Tigers are looking forward to
playing “Mount A. on Saturday.

 

of support from the sidelines so how

 

 

 

  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
    
   
   
  
 
  

 
   
   
   
    
     
   
   
       
 

  

 

 
    

   

   
  
 

  

     
   
  

Come on Mount A.! We’re wait-| arrived back in Halifax after having .
played and lost one of its best ful Food Value.
Dalhousie: Farquhar 5, Dunlop,| &#™° of the year. A few of the
more hardy Cubs made classes .
fen. Knight, Vautour 2. Tuesday morning while the others
? went home to bed to sleep it off.
R.C.A.F.: Chelin 3, Malcolm 1, Lineups:
Dalhousie—McKelvey 4, Ralston ;
16, Shaw, Pope 5, Farquhar 4, V. j
Clarke 4, McKenzie 2. t
The Answers to BRAIN WORK- St. F. X.—Ritchie 17, MacAdam 2, i
1. Stick-handling—keeping the || Mooney 19, Creaghan 10, George 4, {
puck away from _ opponents || Pothier, Gininar 1. single-handed. ;
2. Dribbling. hab 4
me, Badminton
4, Golf. i
5. Hockey players—lacing the Despite wartime shortages of :
skates in order not to cut off cir- || Shuttlecocks, etc. the adherents of i
: i ite badminton have still k I The Best
culation requires time. on have still stuck to their Chocol ¢@
game and are even having a tourna- te ate
@ ment. The ladies, no doubt, inspired ade ‘
by Sadie Hawkins’ week have nearly ney 4
completed their contests before the eee 7 ee 3
males have hardly started. | & EE he 9 |
Both men’s singles and. doubles .
eee ume temic cece a have just started, so we’ll let well
enough alone. The ladies’ singles A
have reached the final stage with | ‘
V. Phillips and P. Hollis competing .
for top honors. K. Cox and V. Phillips beat out P. Hollis and L. Mac- A
Kenzie 15-6; 15-17; 15-11 to win the EFATO a 1S Q
ladies’ doubles. In mixed doubles
only one game has been played.
However, we’re still hoping.
Well Tailored
Unity is more than treaties. It is & oa Oo RT C O A TS 4
built, as confidence is built, by many
selfless acts. And can be broken by
a single inconsiderate demand For Men and Young Men
This ee ae enaveys |
our praise, for finding
usatreasure. JACK MITCHELL’S 15.00 to +
ne stronger eee prevents BARBER SH
elays, its smoothness
gives us pleasure. OF 22 : 50
¢ Mirad :
figras cndail ite: ag Four Experienced Barbers ;
claims we’ve tested.
2S It does the work with
greater aan and OTH men and young men ,
os sends us home more rested. = ill And em a
artly styled,
Sc. each—less in quantities For Sporting well tailored sport ea in
Certified with a money-back ;
— Be Goods of this group at EATON’S! ...
a : ! They come in two and three
NEAT e Pe ; Q i :
Sa ais F inest uality button styles and are finished . eS and a Complete with peaked or notched la-,
E ie Music Services pels... . Of good quality 4
L ae materials. Sizes in the range
Ley — CHURCH ORGANS —35 to 42: and : 2
st ; a choice of v
ES SHEET MUSIC - RECORDS : =
PEN c [Ls is MUSIC SUPPLIES colours and fabrics.

   

ee

re
foe
a
Eee
ss
=
pe
ar
Le
isk
yng
brik
pore
oa
. = >

  

A ay ae ae Efe yp eet ET eee
\ °

Test your ability in general knowledge of sports by answering these
simple questions.
Twenty-five is perfect, twenty is considered average, and everyone below
that had better keep thir y a little closer to the ball.

aio

9

 

The Carleton

 

 

 

 

  
  

ee

I,

March 3, 1944 Ke

 

~~

|
BRAINWORK-OUT !

Give yourself five points for each correct answer.

What does “ragging the puck” mean in hockey?

What would a basketball player be doing to correspond to a 7
hockey player who was “ragging the puck”? a
What number of men are on a larcrosse team? is
In what game does a flag mark the goal or objective? s
What athletes take longest to dress? ~

 

»
0
in DALHOUSIE
Halifax, Canada WELCOME
— TO f

Host to the travelling

BLAKELEY’S

13 Spring Garden Road

public since 1858

A Good Address

CO

 

. é

 

Most Canadians prefer Neilson’s
Jersey Milk Chocolate for its
delicious Flavor and wonder-=

 

 

 

Eaton’s Men’s Wear Department
Main Floor

OT.EATON Cou

  

 

 

a
— ce —
a = = —_— .
