| ¥. 4 Under

 

 

    
   
    

    
    
    

CAMPUS
_ CLIPPINGS

_—s By EUGENE MERRY

  
  

  
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  

FROM ME TO YOU

Ry Some Moron Somewhere

Shee. Moron:

- I sat myself down pen i in hand $s
. _ typewrite you a letter. Please ex_cuse the pencil. I don’t where I lived
E batore because I moved here where
I am now. When you come to see
me ask anybody where I live—nobody knows.

   
   
   
    
  
 
   
   
    
 

  

 

    
    
    
 

What The Studerits’ Council Did
On Sunday

(1) Incorporated the Dalhousie Blood Donor Society as
one of the Student Societies for the duration of the
war; appointing Barbara White, Bill Hagen and Art
Titus to represent the Council on this Committee.
Appointed Jeff Bagnall, Laura MacKenzie, and Eileen
Phinney to the Awards Committee.

Set Noy. 18 as the day for by-elections in the faculties
of Arts and Commerce, to fill the vacancies on the
Council.

Decided to call for applications for editing the Students’ Directory, said applications to be submitted to
the Secretary by Friday, Nov. 5.

Temporarily passed Gazette, and D.A.A.C. Budgets.

  
  

(2)
(3)

   
   
  
  
   
   
    
 
  
 

(4).

   
     
  
  

(5)

THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 5, 1943

EKING REDUCED 0.1. C. HOUR

gypsies,

  

   
 
  

“I’m sorry we are so far together.
- ac I wish we were closer apart. We
Oe are having more wearher this year.
My Aunt Nell died and is doing fine.
_ Hope you are doing the same. My
.. cousin had the mumps and is having
* a swell time.

_ I started to Philadelphia to see
you. I saw a sign that read, “This
a _ takes you to Philadelphia”. So I
POH eae upon the sign and sat there
eer three hours, but the damned

Ms = thing - didn’t move.
a Tm ti you a coat by express.

(6)

 
    
  

    
  
 

 

  

 

  

\

 

Sodales Discusses
Debating Plans"

Officers were elected and plans
were furthered at the first meeting
|this term of the Sodales Debating
Club held Tuesday noon.

The Sodales debaters have three
_| major debates lined up for this year.
| Only one of these, the debate with
U.N.B. will be held here at Dalhousie, the others with St. Thomas
and St. Mary’s being held on the
opposing teams’ home grounds.

| The subject of the debate with

U.N.B. has not been decided upon
as yet, but will be made public at
a later date. This debate takes
place before Nov. 30, so watch the
bulletin board and the Gazette for
the latest information.

A shield is to be presented for the
first time this year. It becomes the
property for one year of the best
team in the league.
port to your team so that the Sodales Club may become the proud
possessor of this shield.

Debating try-outs will be held on
Tuesday, November 16. Those who

 

    
 

      
   
   
  
  
 

       

Vee

will mail it fe you.
| ? BS. Enclosed you will find a picoy ‘ture, For fear it would get I took
aot: ~ it ot

     

neds

     
   
 

Less sincerely,
LITTLE MORON.
—The Brunswickan.

   
  

i: © * ok *
ee a OKA DESPATCHES 65 —

_ Montreal, (CUP). Oka Agriculture
Deiege is the only Quebec university
ee that has to date responded to the
National Selective Service’s call for
_ volunteers to aid with the harvest of
potatoes in Main. They have sent
65 students, while McGill and Bis
_hop’s Universities have definitely
_ decided against such a plan.

    

  
    
  

> ess
. . ; are interested may obtain further
mettle Cee make Lite information from the club’s officers:

President—Seott Gordon
Vice-President—Ted King
Secty-Treas.—Allan Blakeney

She wears them in the winter
And she wears them in the fall
In the early spring she wears them—
In the summer not at all,
_ _In'the summer time I love her
-- But I shun her in the fall
For when she wears GALOSHES
I love her least of all.

DEBATING TRIALS

Tuesday, Nov. 16—12 noon

Room 3 Arts Building.

Speeches of five (5) minutes
length.

* * *

_ Art—(finding hair in soup) I wonMS der who the new cook is?

Wee Art—Oh, well, we had rabbit
a soup yesterday, so I suppose it is
et hare soup today.

Suggested topic:
Resolved that some forni of

league of nations is necessary to
a peaceful post-war world.
OR a topic of your choosing.

All debaters for the year will
be chosen at these trials!

'

at ’ Ber
AN EPITAPH

‘on! ‘Mother dear, I’ve lost my love,
She left me late last night;

| What ean I do! I loved her so—

- And now she’s out of sight.

 

Dal University
Art Group

The next exhibition will be the
Canadian Society of Graphic Art
Travelling Exhibition. It will be
open to you and your friends on
Sundays and weekdays (except
| Tuesdays) from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
from November 4th (Thursday) to
November 10th (Wednesday). The

exhibition hall is in the Geology De| partment, on the top floor of the
| Seience Building, Studley Campus,

_ 'Dalhousie University. Admision

You said that ‘ aehvaced her
_ And indeed, you were not wrong
--But her scent was never cheap,
mother,
a Though it was a trifle strong.
Ba A Masai how I loved to feed her
me 12 For she never cost me much—
rr aes grew in girth and beauty
a me reese touch.

ree |”. ;
— a4 £ wt .
a i ine
Made plans for War-Services Committee to hold International Students Service Day on Novy. 17.

Give your sup- |.

 
 

   
    
  

  
 

 

FROSH ELECTIONS HELD

* % *

A small but mighty group of between thirty-five and forty students
took part in the election of the
freshman class officers which took
place in the Chemistry Theatre
Thursday noon.

Churchill-Smith, who was presiding, first called for nominations for
president. The four nominees—McKelvie, Knight, Farquhar and Dunlop—retired to the corridor while
Knight was acclaimed president with
a vote of twenty.

Next, from the nominees, C. Archibald, J. Robertson and MacDonald,
the vice-president, “Joe” Robertson
was elected. Then came the nomination for secretary-treasurer, with
McKelvie coming out on top with a
unanimous vote. ;

The meeting ended with the choice
of Joyce Archibald, McKelvie and
Mingo for freshman representatives
in the Sodales Debating Society.

C.0.T.C. NOTES

Major Hogan’s new post has been
officially announced by M.D. 6 this
week. His new position has been
stated as Reserve Army Liason Officer for M.D. 6, succeeding Major
H. G. Ashford.

Major Faulkner disclosed that
there would not be a parade on
Saturday, November 13, the date of
the football game with Acadia. The
extra hours of training would probably be filled by a long parade on the
Wednesday preceding the game,
Major Faulkner stated, but these arrangements were not yet definite.

Sgt. Flood, formerly of St. F. X.
C.O.T.C., will fill the vacaney left by
the departure of Sgt. Marshall. Set.
Flood is at present in the hospital,
following an operation, but he will
assume his duties as soon as he has
sufficiently recovered. No official
word could be obtained this week on
the proposed division of the corps
with the formation of an A.T.C.

 

 

PERSONNEL DRAWN

FROM UNIVERSITIES

MONTREAL.—A recent survey of
the technical personnel who come
under the jurisdiction of the Wartime Bureau of Technical Personnel
and are employed by Canadian Industries Limited or are on loan to
its wartime subsidiary, Defence Industries Limited, shows that there
are 461 university graduates in the
service of these two companies. Of
this total 27 are Ph.D’s.

GRADUATION LISTS

This year’s graduation lists have
been posted. Professor Bennet asks
that any errors or omissions be reported immediately to the Registrar’s office.


 

  

u

Hallowe’en Hop

Early Flop

Lost in the vast, cavernous Gym,
a handful of assorted hula dancers,
and Sadie Hawkins Day
remnants cavorted lonesomely as a
hastily - arranged Hallowe’en hop
fizzle to a finale. Least successful
of Dal dances to date, competing unsuccessfully with formals and
masquerades at clubs, nurses’ residences and private homes throughout the city, the affair, in spite of

herculean efforts of a valiant com
mittee, seemed destined to no place
in the annals of Dalhousiana.

If “Come Stag” functions of the
future were to be adjudged,by last
Friday’s gathering, the R.I.P. could
well be erected now. A smattering
from Pine Hill, a dribble from Shirrefi Hall, a bedazed fragment of
city-dwellers, all wearing an expression denoting they had really been
on their way to a lecture on the
Ornithology of the Lower Congo”
and just dropped in by chance, made
up a crowd almost large enough to
constitute a quorum for the latelamented Effective Speaking Club.
And like the ESC, the party faded
to an early death.

Tells of Growing

Christian Influence

On Saturday, Oct. 30, Dr. A. I.
Brace addressed the Student Christian Movement on the influence of
Christianity on China today. Dr.
Brace spent twenty-five years in
China as a YMCA secretary, and one
of his sons is at present an engineer
on Chiang Kai-Chek’s staff.

He said that since war had started
in China eight million men had been
killed and nine million wounded.
Fifty million people, five times the
population of Canada have had to
find new homesand still the Chinese
fight on. The Generalissimo has a
five-point program — first, he has
built one hundred thousand miles of
fine motor roads; second, he has put
civil air lines through all China;
thirdly, there is now radio in every
city in China; fourth, he is stablizing
the currency and fifth he has laid
great influence on education.

50,000 Chinese student have been
sent out to Europe and America to
study, and have brought the best
of Western knowledge back to
China.

The students in China today are
the new middle class. Some of them
have walked 1000 miles with their
books on their back to continue
their studies in caves in the interior
of China.

Although only 1% of China is
Christian, 80% of the leadership of
China is Christian, and even in the
heat of war the Christian message
transcends the hatred of war. When
the war is over a new China will be
built, mixing the best of our Western thought with the ancient civilization.

China has for its basis the teachings of Jesus.

Govern Yourself...

Frosh Show and Dance tonight,
Friday, from 8 o’clock on in the
Gym.

Lecture on Dramatics and Public Speaking, Tuesday nights - at
7.30 in the Arts Building.

Tuesday, Nov. 9, 8.30 p.m., Recital by the Maritime Academy of
Music, Nova Scotian Hotel.

Art Exhibition now showing in
the Geology Department, Science
Building.

7 4 ra . 5 1 doe .
j= _ a rere
= a * art 
ae ey 2 77. a f i r? sm —™
LO ROR OTe Le Ty
) A. ae Sig) ee

re ape rr

4%

No. 5

  

SECOND YEAR MEN DEMAND CHANGE
Would End Confliction Of

Studies, Compulsory Training

Last Monday, representatives of second year medicine met
Dean H. G. Grant of the Dalhousie Medical School to discuss
the matter of military training. Acting on behalf of their
class, these representatives suggested that medical students at
Dalhousie should drill the same number of hours as those at
McGill.
es a | Upperclassmen will remember that —
for the last three years the medical —
students have been drilling only
‘under a form of undeclared protest.
Several attempts have been made to
‘be rid of military training altogether, and from a strictly legal
| view, these attempts have not al| ways been lawful; but these minor
rebellions have been of a _ sincere
motive, and few persons have ever
thought them unjustified. And in
these days, when the farcial nature
|of military training for students in
the professional faculties is being
ever more widely appreciated, Dalhousie medical students at last find
themselves with a substantial case
to make known.

 

Commerce Society

Elects Officers

The Commerce Society held its
first meeting of the year on Oct. 26
in room three of the Arts Building.
In spite of the fact that this is the
smallest of the faculty societies the |
meeting was not without enthusiastic attendance.

The following officers for the year
were elected:
Pres.—David Churchill-Smith
Vice-Pres.—Stella Myers
Secty-Treas.—Bill Pierce
Student Council Rep.—
Ruth McInnis

The main discussion resulted in

 

 

The whole matter began when certain students here received letters
from friends at McGill telling how
the decision to carry on the tradi- | Medical students there were drilling

tion of having a “Millionaires Ball’| nly three hours each week. The

and, accordingly a dance committee reduction in hours of military traincomposed of Bill Pierce, Norma|img had been announced in the Me
Sherman, Norma Bryant, and Bar- Gill Daily. Immediately many stubara Campbell was appointed. Al- dents wrote to their McGill friends
though an exact date has not been |@Sking that they send to Dalhousie
set it can be said that it will be held | copies of the issues in which the anone night of the week imemdiately | nouncements had been made. But

following the Christmas holidays.| Within a few days these announce=
So watch the notice boards, and|™ments were reprinted in the Dal
what’s more, avoid the pitfalls of housie Gazette.

the the post-Xmas financial slump. Last Tuesday, Dean Grant of the
medical school received a telegram
ifrom the Dean of McGill medical
| in which the reduction of

school
hours for medical students there was
confirmed. It is believed that the

FIRST MEETING OF
SOCIOLOGY CLUB faculty of medicine as well as the
students feel quite strongly on the

The Dalhousie Sociology Club held | matter , and already the faculty is
its first meeting this year on Wedns- thought to have approached the miliday, October 27. Officers for the tary district. At last the medical
coming year were elected as follows: | students here have good reason to

believe that the thorny problem of
their military training will be settled in a way that will favour studies rather than drill.

Hon. Pres.—Dr. Prince
Pres.—Blair Colborne
Vice-Pres.—Connie Archibald
Sect’'y.—Betty Knapp
Treas.—Laurie Smith

Dr. Prince outlined the aims of
the Club stressing that it was one
of the oldest of its kind in Canada.
Through the Club we keep in touch
with other such Clubs across the
continent and distinguished lecturers
are brought to the campus. :

N.B—NEW STUDENTS

> The hour students may see the
doctor in Students’ Health Service
is every day from 12 to 1 with the
exception of Sunday. This is_ the
only time the doctor will be at the |
Clinic for this purpose.

 

 

Dalhousie Institute
of Public Opinion

DIPO

When Do You Think Peace Will Be Restored To The World?

65% of the “arm-chair strategists” asked this timely question, voiced
the opinion of the writer of this column—that the war will end sometime
in 1945. 25%, optimists all, thought that the peace bells would peal out
this year, and the remaining 10% were of the opinion that hostilities
would not cease until 1946 or 1947.

a a ae

What Do You Think Is Wrong With Dalhousie? :

Of the students asked this question: 60% said that there is too much
to do and too little time in which to do it—the greater part of the day
taken up with classes, and the evening with military training; the result
being too little time for recreation and study. 380% said, quite indignantly, that nothing is wrong with Dalhousie and 10% said that there
is something radically wrong, but just what they can’t say. (It can’t be

so radical!)
* * * *

What Do You Think Of This Column?

As the writer expected, 74% think the contents of DIPO are “lousy”.

25%
ment,

said, very encouragingly, that there is lots of room for improveThe remaining 1% said they had never heard of this animal called

DIPO (which, too, was very encouraging!), and so, dear reader, we ask

youfi what do YOU think of this column? ;

t
 
 
 

t

 

 
  
 
   
 
     

; eat a4 ei
; * ib , } mit re SP i
k ' , pemeyreed Pd $ f ? rei ‘i arag F ; - “tee h , - ; }
1 . ne : | eles ; “AY Te rs rar fe) Z - te Fh me ae i ote ware. oe i 7
» 2 oY PN a ao ee " ry (eT eer wh? -F. a a. a , ; r= 7 pi -~ j
. o P ; m “ ‘ = ee —_ ~e, oe . 9 f s eg oe) eye : ; | i, i Wet, abel. 57; . n 7
j eel ae ry Pee . Ci a Py. Teel © Pa ee Fe, NOVEeEMDE ’
po \ eye ; r . al Py
/ ie 7 ; : an Pat 7 F Pe 1 . “ i, a Ls a , i q
, . - bt le Sot elf r 7 ; : - \e ie; ae tt Ceo * — Prd:
a . a aa Nd Bp ree ee % oi } wien LS i>. at - . een . - . : a
7 = nan as oe 2 —. = = rg = So eS ee ae — = ~ = 1 t » 4 + - “ x a ‘
P = 7 ett . - = 3 : Tye. ry } 7 7 wet ‘é i - ? « , d. ‘ = |

) .., ie
ts eat Yall pone auihmn cs evin. arry
ate 4 at ee ewer enwene sane ee wikia ono wed MacLar ; a
. a Bob MoOiéave, Eileen Phinney M URDERE R

eed eve ee ee eee,

pete eee emer hts Soe bi Edie y ee eae Bill Pope 9 }
. Teens Hmm? Oh, you’re the new man|put on this latest boon to sheriffs

   

  
  

   
   
     
   

bd OF RUN Rete ener nee nee reset sees e renee es

Meda aco 4 edies e's le effrey. E. MacDonald |2t¢ you? Well, you won’t find much | Elias slowly aimed at him and fired
“ ; a ee a Ho avila vita ene ie 7 SIGS r “ .Laurie Smith | excitement here in Greenvale to keep} with his .38. As soon as Elias

LE PRB We ee pie <i sy Wet vin Ay ee ee John Hibbetts | you busy. Old Elias, he was the last| pressed the trigger Wells let out a
eter Bell, BAU Lawrence, Boris Funt, Eileen Phinney | Sheriff, used to have so much spare} groan and fell, clutching his side. °
‘itm > M ae Quigley, Bob Kimball, Betty Atkins | time he always used to be invent-|He was dead. Doce Andrews said
GAC) RA ing things. ’Course, everybody here-|to us later, “Boys, Wells’ heart was
are aa : ae he about thought Elias was a little-uh-| bad. His death was not the result ED f U fA OR KM ] L fy
sie 3 well, sorta simple, always tinkerin’| of a bullet wound.” We all believed
. “waar ISA STANDARD? ’n’ things. Yep, poor old Elias died| him because nobody questions Doc PLAYER’S NAVY CUT CIGARET TES
n the fact that | 2* last after all that—reckon ’twas| Andrews.
eae oe etat the truth is ne though go | On account of that. Didn’t you hear| So young Wells was buried and
ne? ( about it? Louise’s heart was broken. Elias
you. To the over-tised bromide “as inevitable Well, it was back in the spring of went around in a daze and his health

| taxes” should be added that final example of un-|1939 when a young fellow by the was failing after that for, you see,

tiny “and exams”. name of Allan Wells came along he still seemed to believe that he’d

: ‘ , ‘| killed Allan.
3 just . as inevitable, if past years are any guide, ig | That was when the new airplane Welk'on the day Biias died: “he

: nee ndard of Dalhousie” which will be maintained in| factory was opened. Smart young pe :
. What constitutes this “high standard” of which | man, too. Sort of a tall, nervous- fr rai Ta ee se
ty is so proud? Evidently a firm belief that the |looking chap—not bad-looking at all.) ne eT cam te.
ity of students do not rank as, and can never| We all took a likin’ to him, though] sw» his words now — “Luke
“first diy” or 65% bracket, that a fairly impressive|we didn’t know much about him. SSuile doy Beat Preid and-1 wert to
must be failed altogether, and that most.under-| Pretty soon he was promoted to a ee
A os, tell you before I go. Allan didn’t After an Sho
are 40-50% material. The professional faculties of |foreman’s job and he was workin’ Be Me ee aL a cata iat tbe y Ww
are on the entirely different basis of an exact knowledge | like a Trojan. Pte ah ;
x : e blow to Louise. I asked
ved and technical. processes, but in Arts and pure About a month after he came he Bele ie ain abet. Adan to
wen 8S ” : ’ Wiad? f
this | ose standard” is religiously venerated. Within] met Louise, that’s old Elias’ daugh- rierty ver Lowsse,":. Ab this 1 cuss
e] ‘this standard may well make for a higher|ter. They took to each other and|y just have looked a little bewildof a but outside the Studley campus, it creates a|were goin’ to get married after|...q beeause Elias had alwa Before any Meal
‘ é : ys
no distinetly unfair to any scholar wishing to continue| Wells got better established.

seemed to like the young fellow a
Now, as I was tellin’ you. Elias|lot. He smiled a little.
-and graduate students, seeking entrance at other| was always inventin’ things and

ties, can feel proud to present a record of studies show-| Allan would often help him experi
10% average at Dal. Any student carrying away from| ment just to humour the old man.

usie five courses in his final year all in the first division,| One of Elias’ pet gadgets was a
1g 10%, has good reason to feel somewhat above the bullet-proof vest that he’d been im” Yet this same student, presenting his record at an] provin’ for years. Finally he got it
. university, is probably slated for a very cool recep-| finished.

: 70- to a graduate school, accustomed to receiving men

       
        
    
     
    

   

 
  
  
  

 

   
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
 
 
    
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
    
 
  
   
  
  
    
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
     
   
 
 
 
   

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

  

   

Class Pins bs

Your class pin may be
Fier small—but it is important. Birks have the
“know how” to make it
look smart, yet cost a

little.

 

“Yes, yes—
I know. But he was an escaped Think of ...
convict—% the words scarcely came
—‘Kent County jail—bigamy—just
found out—”and that was all. Yep.
Elias was dead. The
And y’know, it’s a funny thing.
I was putterin’ around old Elias’
So, as usual, Allan helped him| yard for fishin’ worms, pretty near
ah where 80’s are considered “a fairly good showing”, experiment one day. They pinned the} the spot where young Wells died and
SSIVE. | vest on the wall of the barn and|I found three bullets. They were
resent system is unfair, but what can replace it?| shot twice at it. But not even a}from a .83. Must have lain there
rm alhousie standards should not be lowered. The|trace of powder on the wall after|for some time. I wonder if——”
ali of her graduates has been definitely higher than most] they took down the vest. So Allan A. S. H.
ladian and many American undergraduate colleges. Yet the
let by those graduates transferring for further work
very serious, and may result, especially in the

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

Green Lantern

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited

     
       

 

 

s when the liberal arts will again come into their . SEA CHILDREN : © Fresh Fish Specialists
ling an eos unfavorable and unwarranted | HALIFAX Nova Scotia HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA
ollege. * Up they came out of the sea |
ect solution is the adoption of a set of standards Dripping and glistening ;

and American universities. This, however, like Bs Fish-taled sea nymphs three,

dings, is manifestly impossible. But other. ways Flipping and slithering.
e found, if serious consideration were given to the Tresses all gleaming

, ‘solution might be the system, already in use in ihn Fs att cao aliokt

whereby a student is given only one mark for his Nagai bas
work in all courses, a “pass with honours”, a Gently smoothing and dressing

FARMERS’ MILK

or a “failure”. Others, more feasible, would open upon Long golden showers of hair.
a _ But to prepare for the renaissance of higher The wanton moon waned, ALWAYS PURE
t the humanities, in the years to come, some action Shimmering they go,
: sent os e

The murmuring waves parted ALWAYS RICH

And clouds o’er their heads.
Three beautiful sea-children

FLOWER SHOP Have gone back to bed. ALWAYS WHOLESOME

37 BLOWERS STREET Satay rcs hn ty ees
Phone 3-7133 HALIFAX } UNSOLVED RIDDLE

— NS They say it’s fall when bird fly south again,
— it a é = . And swarm like leaves across the windy sky;
nei TA PLE | LEAF D AIRY Just why they go remains a mystery,
1 Re er renites Throughout the ages man has not known why
A. D. JOHNSON, Prop. A robin or a bluejay takes his flight,
samy Phone 4-2357 Or wings his way above the northern sod,
MILK - CREAM - BLEND - BUTTERMILK Except "some force keeps urging him unseen,
jetta iahennialenebins Some instinct born of Nature or of God.
While we, poor puzzled beings that we are,

ailing Halifax

 

er em bi

Halhousie University

A Halifax, Nova Scotia

«

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.

Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.

  

‘Hoping to find an answer, search in vain, Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.
The secret of a long eternal truth, ye | .
That when it’s fall the birds fly south again. _ eee ane setence Facutey
Ke Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
UID LCHRI ? 7 odern Languages and History.
Q EST PULCHRITUDO Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
Hark! What is this seeming magic? i ue ee to Prof 1 Facul
Beane — ro
This hidden glory, | Course in Public maneehoi eee
This old revered and ancient story; Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
This brighter light, inde yop
This firmer form, | ;
Baus The Professional F i
This lovliness of early morn; ins aes
ks et Seueuh lee a eke . sel : Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.
is enchanted hue |
a fed soft and fresh to maintain

‘ ‘ ely : lines. Ot at aartine senctine This thing that only God could do?

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.

ite oe what you have ‘Tis the personality to all Creation, | in the B.Se. course, about $190 a year.
bea st ‘ The very essence of Inspiration; Residence
z Away to love (our sacred duty!) Shirreff Hall,
"Tis the wond’rous subtle touch of ‘ SPrised residential th

: on Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.
eauty:

a ae

Cn

 

- , oo ‘ ae! —
PS ns) ae Ps
teat oe Ne) Wien, ee ere PL gt
‘Ee i 5 ae
vi

 

rn rl MED ba TE ite me ght SS kt Nite |
Se ae , af ne a yy eee a 2 = .
Me eet a eee
: 5 , = + ie |
iry

Sasi Page Three

, Ps A
, rT oT / a E :
' "Wild a eee ah r \ \ = " a ial ‘Ts “, y
Ni a ai * ae ee sf fo . os wh Ag "'.e ss
ive € be! . SS Fe i ‘ 7 ‘ 7 eo
“ , — ’ a ; ’ th T ee, ee er " 7 -, " ¢ ‘
ly ys yp f iw ts i om = PalePlae sh tines ¢ i
Gi a me da cisely Sp © i } e ee
cs UL aa wid F ae ct cre wig fd Y ‘
‘ my! ‘ s oe ' r , &
4 La ‘ ; tm 4 3 bP ' , fae 5 , | : Ke .
2 a. ‘ 7 + -. - + oo : 7 =~
‘as ween 4" he g 8 ii hess =F 4 ;
r ‘ ; a igial 11 MAT o Bs en ental
P) : 7 bh 4 : 7 7
# ee A Ti: pron ; 5 q ™) By
4 : 7 yt tee “9 : , 7

i rg
ert oN
= s

    
 

ie Gazette

eis ince on the Wash- ingte s of government emse ye civilian war workers is
Fg contrast to the sidewalks
mo ork, which are continually
ie with wearers of the khaki

  

  

  

me i 4
7 bon

forthwi

sped to 45 Z Street. When he ar
|rived, he was startled to hear that

= room had been rented to someone
else.

“Look here”, he argued, “the man
who owns this room just drowned in
the Potomac.”

“T know, sir, but it’s now occupied

  
 

th jumped into a taxi and. “I’ve simply got to get out of

guard
a baby.”

here,” she begged, approaching a
ard, “you see I’m going to have

“But why did you enter the building in such a condition, Madam?”
the guard queried.

“T didn’t,” she replied.

q ; > + Ps
y as i + 2 * i 7
Ne. ; - Ss mad ,
is | far =" a i f+
aes oe Ae a7 - 1 [+
oe J i 3 bad? i ae © 7
‘« ; ie on : s . bY : ;
bad Fano. tort a ‘ ; c
te bay 2 a RAE YE 4 rae ’ x - '- ‘7s ‘Fe ¥ ;
~vVLT TS A t7T ar g Staal = 7
: Ti i. SAE ca vi eS ¥ ‘
S J ; ure Pil’ | wi ’
et me ar r : © , 7 ‘
Elf ae o < ne r
a ——————

Ed. Note: The following communique has just been received by
the Gazette from the scene of action. May we urge all Dalhousians to take it to heart:

All out for Acadia

Greetings, Engineers.
Here’s a flash right off the press:
Freshman Takes Over Senior
This week our reporters dug up
a bit of hot news concerning a young
“knight” of the Freshman class who

We wish to bring to your attention

the fact that the annual Engineer’s —

Trip cannot be held this year, due to
transportation difficulties,

 

  

* % *

We hear that “Scabber” Burgoyne
is on the go again this year. Those
trips to Chester must be hard on
morale, especially when you have to
sit on the road all night.

7 ‘braid. Washington has|by the fellow who pushed him in”,| And then—you’ve probably heard has made the headlines by making x Se

Fs ae Be a 1a ; i about the Western Union boy who : coke ¥ ; ;

ee ‘Tt 16 Beet eG Ot galety. Me ee z ie: went into the Pentagon to deliver a Here you are, you happy: college | @ Super hit at Shirriff Hall. He was There will be a special meeting of
ae ES rales, The city is predomin- The ate to Washineton will | Mess28e and when he came out he} lads and lassies, you loyal sup- |last seen on Sunday night between | the Horizontal Club on Nov. 138, at a
oH te y serious and determined. Add find his greatest problem in attempt- | ”** * full-fledged colonel. porters of our great fighting team | Seven and eight o'clock, and he seem- es oat ive oe Epic
ee to this a desperate housing situation |ing to discover the secret to the Off-Hours —the chance of a lifetime. The |ed to be a happy, in fact a very| members please attend, and bring

and a constant overcrowding of
_ public utilities—and it is easy to see
that the fun-seeking soldier, sailor
or marine on furlough would not be
attracted to the nation’s capital.
_ The government’s numerou hous_ ing projects for “eligible immigrant
__Wwar-workers” have made a magni_ ficent contribution to alleviating the
existing situation caused by a popu. lation increase of 43 percent in the
_ three-year period from 1940 to 1943.
In the D.C. area, the National Housing Agency has supervised the construction, thus far, of 7,200 public
-  wnits and about 7,400 public single
\u units. When the present program
of construction has been fulfilled, a
total of 16,000 public units and
-° 13,000 single units will have been
realized.

     
 
 
  

Sr

Housing Settled

' An N.H.A. official observed that
,-} housing problems in Washington are
_ now well under control. This, he
\} explained, is in large part due to the
_ stabilization of the war effort and
the fact that the majority of the
_. government departments have conse=} quently “acquired their full comple- ment of office workers.”
| The government, through the
_ Office of War Information, has
stretched out a helping hand to the
temporary visitor to the capital who
has no rooming prospects in mind.
5 ; Those who wish to rent a room for
an indefinite period have but to state
their preferences as to rent, location
and so forth and leave the rest up
 O.W.1. The latter produces statistics
bearing a list of available lodging
quarters (if any) and directs the
_inguirer to the home of his choice.
At ee” are

2s ~—”—s&The Wages of Sin
'__ | However, many are the poor souls
_ who make long and fruitless searchs for shelter. You have probably heard of the gentleman who was
wandering along the banks of the
_ Potomac River when he noticed an
. old man struggling to keep afloat
_ in the swirling green waters. Standing calmly on the bank. he watched
the form disappear, once, twice into
' the murky depths. Then, as the old
_ fellow broke water for the plunge
/ © end all plunges, the man on the

  
   
   
    
  
    
      
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
 

“By the way, what is your Washton address ?”
45 Z Street,” the frustrated
wnee gurgled in reply.

ed bw the prospect of an

ilal le room, the man on the bank ' looking feverishly for an exit.

city’s complicated street system. The
numbered streets, here, go, supposedly, north and south, and the alphabetical streets, east and west. The
avenues and roads, on the other
hand, run in all directions, are frequently mistaken for “streets” and
invariably lead the newcomer astray.
Yours truly, for example, with but
twe coppers to his name, was obliged
to hit the long trail homeward on
foot one night from 18th and K
streets to MacLean Gardens. But
feeling gay, he was apparently undismayed by the prospective fatigues
of a three mile walk. Yes, he wandered onto an aecursed avenue, unawares, and ended up miles and
miles from his objective. A kindly
negro couple came to the rescue by
informing him of his whereabouts
and persuaded him to accept a dime
for bus fare. Lacking compass, map
or a sense of direction, he might
well have crossed the state line into
Virginia.

Because this writer did not have a
week of his short time in Washington to spare for the purpose, he did
not visit the celebrated Pentagon
building in person, but acquired a
collection of startling data through
the Public Relations Office of the
War Department. The Pentagon (so
called for its five sided structure) is
a wartime innovation, built at a cost
of 60,000,000 dollars to house 30,000
staff workers of the United States
War Department. The largest building in the world, the Pentagon has
fourteen miles of quarters and is
fully equipped with an air-conditioning system. For the welfare of its
employees, the War Department has
provided for seven indoor and one
outdoor restaurant for the serving
of an estimated 50,000 meals per
day. The Pentagon has its own
bank, a barber-shop with eighteen
chairs, a modern drug store, a uniform store for officers, a cleaning
and drying establishment and a shoe
repair shop. To benefit the hard
working members of the fair sex, a
shopping service has been established
to the downtown area. Each of the
five floors in the-building has a different colored interior so that the
straying members of the staff can
orient themselves if lost.

Pregnant Pentagon
Many are the fantastic yarns spun
about the Pentagon’s immensity but
perhaps the most descriptive concerns the predicament of a lady who
had apparently lost herself and was

   
   
      

The Gazette is pleased to present a series of articles

picturesque,
but he would have to look long and
‘hard to find a Republican sleeping

 

|. | by different students on how they spent their summer
holidays. The demands of wartime being great, perhaps
most of the holiday work is connected vitally with the war
effort. Contributors to the column should, however, re_| member.-that news interest—whether serious, comic, or
| just good average reading—is of paramount importance.

| See any Gazette editor and your article will be accepted for

   
 
  
   

 
  
    
  
   
  
    
   
    

ape: _ publication.

  
 

_ Plowing across the North Atlantic
nd into the fields of battle sails a
_ ship, with full lights, and absolutely
mo means of self-defence except for
— the large red crosses painted on her

hull. This is H.M.C.S. Lady Nelson,

_ Canada’s No. 1 Hospital Ship.

i

         
     
    
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
  

wks A year ago she was converted
_ from a peace time pleasure boat running to the West Indies, to a float
| Hf _ few ashore could boast. Working in
_ these are specialists of four doctors
'o4 and seventeen fully qualified: nurses,
| assisted by sixty orderlies.

i Upon leaving Halifax she headed
__-with five hundred German casualties

r

“which were to be included in an ex
_ change of prisoners. The older ones|being Italian or Spanish design and|rades “over there”, HUMPHREY
) having lived in Canadian environ-/all stone. All the labor is carried) after the last war the returning LES OXFORD
t for some months or years, and|by the French speaking Arab popu-| toon. seemed to be thankful it was TO | EC Cs AR 4
i been old enough to think| lation, but this <P searcely be] 21 over and let it go at that but al- Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
re Hitler’s ascent to power,|¢lassed as work for it take fifteen though this feeling may seem on the DALHOUSIE “MISSION TO MOSCOW”
d be reasoned with, but the|or twenty Arabs to do the work one). pace, the deeper thoughts pre- “NAS 3 IN
ver ones of early twenties were | white man could accomplish. They ASTY BUSINESS

e would expect: pig-headed,
,d, and still proud of Der

, for they still

ie
Q

AN OCEAN TRIP
ON A HOSPITAL SHIP...

By Julian Bloomer

  

 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

believed in their unconquerable
power.

Having left them in England, the
Lady Nelson proceeded to Gibraltar.
This is purely a garrison town, with
narrow streets, no side walks, but
plenty of “senoritas” (but, fellows,
they are not what they are cracked
up to be in photographs and magazines.) During the business hours,
10-12, 2.30-5, music may be heard
throughout the town coming from
many saleons. To this music there
is dancing and singing which may
be watehed from the street or the
lack of doors and windows, open
arches being a suitable substitute.

Phillipville and Algiers are typical
North African towns; the houses

carry on an incessant gibbering and
yelling which can be heard great distances away, but has no bearing on

| what they are doing or on anything
s| particular at all. ;

The picture “Five Graves To

Although the streets of Washington are seething with rushing
humanity at meal times and “offhours”, when the bees vanish into
their hives during the work period,
the city is left, with its parks, memorials and exhibits to that strange
to be and practically extinct individual—the sightseer. It would not
be uncommon then to find yourself
standing beside Lafayette in the
empty square or sitting with Napoleon Bonaparte in the silent halls
of the Cororan Art Gallery.

Without adopting travelogue technique, it is difficult to suppress your
wonderment at the architectural
beauty of the Washington and Lincoln memorials. Casting its tall,
sleek shadows into the mirrored
waters of the “reflecting pool’, the
commoration to America’s first
President juts into the skies with a
grim confidence. A few hundred
yards away and facing his fellow
countryman, is Abe Lincoln, the
“saviour of the Union”, cast in pure
white marble. The statute is amazingly life-like and seems, through
the realism of its facial features, almos to speak out to the onlooker.
Inscribed on the inside walls of the
Lincoln memorial are excerpts from
his greatest speeches. The phrase
“we here highly resolve that the
dead shall not have died in vain”
seems to bear peculiar significance
to our day and to the future.

Senescent Senate

But in our wanderings we have
forgotten to look in on Capitol Hill
and the Senate Chamber where 96
“distinguished senators” have reconvened for the new session to cast
aside political issues for the more
urgent matters of the war. We arrive at an appropriate time to find
the Republican Senator from North
Dakota shouting his denunciations of
the government’s Attorney-General,
He has been talking for thirty-five
minutes but has not yet revealed
how the man’s resignation could be
effected. Suddenly, a cherub-faced
gentleman remarks: “Why not
change the Administration?” — As
the laughter subsides, the Senator
from North Dakota once more takes
up the reins: “But that might take
another ten years.”

Yes, the visitor finds many things
to amaze and amuse him in crowded,
wartime Washington,

in the same room with a Democrat.

   

   

no law or order there, neither the
forces nor the police having any
jurisdiction. Consequently only “mad
dogs and Englishmen” go up there
and it is no frequently that someone never returns. Your life is
worth no more than your wallet
contains. Money is not the only
thing that the Arabs will take for
the French have a monopoly on all
cloths! They will, however,- leave
your life but you will have to walk
home in a barrel. Any old clothes
on the ship fetched handsome prices
from the Arabs. A pair of light blue
Pajamas were sold as a light summer suit for $10. Their new clothes
went over their old filthy worn rags
until they left the docks with four
to eight suits on.

In these parts the grim reminders
of war are brought home as far as
the guns and bombs thunder in the
distance, the war casualties are
brought aboard, mental cases, the
maimed and blind, broken in mind
and body, but not in spirit. A completely paralyzed case, from the
neck down, was the most cheerful
one aboard. But as the days pass
and Canadian soil eventually rises
out of the sea, the patients whose
last sight of home was possibly four
years ago, forget their own misfortunes, and think only of their com
vailing are towards the future of the
world, especially Canada. But let us,
the students of Canada, wake up to
the fact ourselves and realize that
humanity, society and fellow welfare
extends beyond the home, the campus, and the Friday night dances.

chance to go to Acadia and see
the greatest game in the history
of Dalhousie. It promises to be
a great day in the annals of Dal
sport, and a great day for all
football lovers, and that means
most of Dalhousie.

When will this great trip be?
It’s Saturday, Nov. 18. Transportation will be provided by the Dominion Atlantic Railway, through
the good work of George the
Hawk himself. The Hawk says it
will be a great day; Douger the
Roy says it will be a great day;
I say it will be a great day, and
all of us can’t be wrong.

Your able cheerleaders are going ulong,; with music by Douger
and his accordion, songs and
cheers by the cheerleaders, and a
load of enthusiasm by every-body.
The theme for the day will be:
bring out your stuffed tiger, Acadia, and we’ll roll the old football
all over it.

The Tigers are really on the
beam and cookin’ with power this
time. There’ll be new songs and
cheers for all lusty-lunged Ralsters, and all the old songs and
cheers besides, and for all those
who don’t know them, there’ll be
a special issue of the Gazette next
week with them all in it, so take
your copy along.

Don’t hold that pole-horse, Mr.
Conroy, for Burnie and his Tigers
are going to mop up the field with
the Axemen. Don’t forget to get
your tickets early, so you’ll be
sure to get down. We’re going to
give it to the Axemen.. . right in
the neck . . . we’ve done it before,
we can do it again, so let the pole
horse go, and All Aboard for Acadia, the Dal Special is ready to
roll!

“LAUCHIE”, 
ARTS
AND SCIENCE

around one of the Hall’s majestic
pillars, we caught a glimpse of
Renee Garrett’s heels, keeping true
time to “Astaire’? Campbell’s lead.
We hear he’s going to be around for
a while. Looking farther we saw
Leone Mooney dancing with Dr. Bell,
while Jimmy danced with Mother.

What was the nourishment that
Red won Saturday? Maybe the
football team could tell us? And
speaking of football, there’s a lot
of stories circulating about Best’s
*Wolf-call.”

Where was Drummie the night the
Hallowe’en Dance? ? ? ? Which reminds us of George “glamour-girl”
Smith, and of the pie Barry concocted for him.

Isabel Wilmot has taken a sudden
interest in PhiRho frat parties—we
don’t all acquire bracelets so
quickly.

We must not overlook the freshmen, doesn’t Bill Pearce look cute
with an apron on, girls—Woo, woo!!

 

 

BLAKELEY’S

CJ

O

a

43 Spring Garden Road

 

happy man. ’Tis said that with the
ringing of church bells the man is
caught. Take heed, chum.

2 * *

Mae Swain, our future Horizontal
Club president, has an apology coming tohim. Instead of “tripping the
light fantastic” down Coburg Road,
he takes his hike down Quinpool
Road. We hope Eleanor P. will understand this grave mistake.

your “Identification Cards”.
eh We we

Tuesday of this week, the hardy
Engineer’s football squad met the
Freshman Engineers team in the
first game of the year. It was a
hard fought contest, and the Engineer’s were victorious with a score
of 5-0.

Nice going gang, and may triumphs continue!

 

 

 

Join the Picobac Fraternity.
pleasant hours in every day—hours of mild,
cool sweet converse with a pipe—that companion which enlivens company and enriches solitude,

DIANA SWEETS

We Cater to Collegians

 

“IT DOES TASTE GOOD IN A PIPE -y

 

It means

 

 

, j Cairo” gives a very good idea of the TEA ROOM C A P I T O ‘
S I ] d “Casbah”, the name given to the Well, we all had a good time at 370 Spring Garden Road
ummer nter u e Arab sections. There is absolutely|the formal, didn’t we? Peeking 3.9754 QJ

Mon. - Tues. - Wednes.

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“THIS IS

 

 

 

“THUNDER OVER THE CITY”
“KIDS LAST RIDE”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“MURDER AT WATERFRONT”
“BLOCKED TRAIL”

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday
“AT DAWN WE DIE”. - ||

Godfrey Teavle and Greta Grant

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“POT OF GOLD”
“SLIGHTLY HONORABLE”

 

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

DIXIE
with BING CROSBY

 

 

THE ARMY”

IN GORGEOUS
TECHNICOLOR

*

 

CASINO

ALL WEEK

  

Starting Saturday
*

“SHAHARA”
*

   

  

 
 
 
    

ie with the Acadia game.
5 a twenty “penalty kicks awarded to

= ay EP greeted by some play which

=

i, a
a

Bt, e tory, but couldn’t seem to go over
_ the line. Toward the end of the first

a Ets managed to put one over the
bar to give Army a 2-0 advantage.

7
4

: ate “oe P

a 24

; |

ee : pe Recreation Centre last Sat: " wedey expecting to see a really fine

 

with Army. However, they

was pretty ragged when compared
That nearly

_ Army didn’t improve the contest,
and the fact that Dal won despite
them is rather amazing
‘Throughout most of the game the
"gers held Army in its own terri
half, after five penalty kicks Floyd

At about the middle of the second
half Army got the ball out to the
_ wing and McInnis was just able to
cross the line near the corner, with
several Dal players on top of him.
The convert, from a difficult angle,
was missed, but Army was out in
front to the tune of 5-0.

In the closing moments of the
game Barry was injured and was
replaced by Ralston. From this moment Dal was a different team and

_really*began to “turn on the heat.”

The scrum, which had held the advantage the whole of the game,
came through again, and heeled the
ball out, which started on its usual
devious course along the threequarter line. However, it only
reached Currie, who, after making a
feint at passing and some perfect
broken field running, plunged right

through the centre of the Army

three-quarters to break Dal’s record,

_ —and score the Tigers’ first try!

at

_MelIvor made the convert from right

in front of the posts, and the game
was all tied up. But still the Tigers
gave their opponents no rest, for
immediately after the Army kickoff
the collegians ran the ball back to
mid-field. From there it was a shor
run to deep in-Army territory. Then
for the first time the Dalhousians
really followed up a loose ball, and
after it had bounced over the line,
Burgess pounced on it to put Dal in
the lead. Mclvor attempted a convert from a most difficult position
but to the disappointment of fans
of the gold and black the ball
bounced off the bar. Thus the game
ended with Tigers having their first
victory of the season:

Dal 8; Army 5.

Line-ups: Dalhousie — Epstein,
Saunders, McIvor, Anderson, Jardine, Allen, Marshall, Carten, Barry,
Currie, -Hart, Giberson, Burgess,
Farquhar, Wade, Ralston.

Army — Arthur, White, McGillivary, Morrison, Debeison, Floyd,
McMullen, McLean, McInnis, Ryan,
McAdam, Cameron, Dickenson Gray,
Chernum.

‘Tigeresses Have

Busy Week End

os Dal girls who play hockey had a

pretty busy weekend. Friday afternoon there was a game between
H.L.C. and the Dal girls, score 1-0
for the former. Saturday the regular hockey team made a trip to
Windsor to play Edgehill, which resulted in another close defeat 1-0.
This we hope to overcome at some
future date in a return match. The
trip was very much enjoyed by the
whole team, who look forward with
confidence to the next game when

_ the team has had more practice.

Thursday a match is scheduled
between the boys and girls. At time
of writing result is not definite, but
may be forecast as a doubtful vic
tory for the stronger sex. Despite

_ the boys’ total disregard of rules and
a “etiquette”,

all bruises and scars are
excepted as “just part of the fun”!

4 Hek—"'Cathe near selling those old
shoes of mine today.
_ Haw—”Howe come?”

at Hel—“Had them half-soled.

fas,
4

x *e FF

a English Prof: When did the re
oo of learning take place?
_ Stude: The week before exams.

 

 

 

Presenting Dick Currie, who has
packed into his athletic career’ more
thrilling experiences than many
veterans twice his age.

Dick was born in Montreal and
spent the first twelve years of his
life in that city. While attending
Rosoin Collegiate he began playing
football and hockey, and there develeoped the skill in these games
that was later to give him a berth
on many winning teams.

Moving to Toronto, he attended
Jarvis Collegiate and played on the
school team which won the Toronto
and district football championship.
The next year this young star was
again on the winning team, holding
down the position of half-back.
Meanwhile he had not forgotten his
hockey, and in 1940 played right
wing for the Shamrock Hockey Club,
which captured the Ontario Midget
Championship.

Currie not only stars at hockey
and football but is a sailing enthusiast. For years he was a member
of the Royal Canadian Yacht Club
in Toronto. With a six meter boat
he has won a score of cups in competitive racing.

In 1941 the Upper Canada sportsman came to Nova Scotia and aattended H.C.A. That year, for the
first time, Canadian football was
introduced into the high schools, and
he played a stellar role as H.C.A.
defeated St. Mary’s wh the playoffs.
That winter Dick was really busy.
Not only did he play a marvellous
game on defense with the school
team, but also played an important
role with the Junior Canadians as
they won the Maritime title and
went on to play in the Eastern
Canadian Finals against Montreal
Royals.

For two years Currie has been at
Dal, and he is an important cog in
the Tigers’ football machine. Also
last winter he led the Freshmen to
a victory over Medicine to take the
interfaculty hockey title.

Dick will graduate in Science .and
Engineering in ’46 and then plans
for further study in Mechanical Engineering.

Besides starring in hockey, football, and sailing, capable Currie occasionally finds time to engage, with
more than average ability, in tennis,
track and field, swimming, and
riding.

 

an ee * ee
4 i eet a ut a
Geary ou F — gi? a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

“TRAMPLE ARMY TEAM 8-5 FOR FIRST WIN

 

 

on the SIDELINES

By BILL POPE

 

 

One of the casualties of the war,
we fear, is the “small time” athlete,
the so-called little man who doesn’t
make the headlines but who receives
just as much enjoyment from sports
as do the more skillful players.
Football and basketball continue to
flourish, and the players find time
amidst their activities for practice.
But what has happened to the less
spectacular sports, ping-pong, track,
badminton, boxing and swimming ?

A few years ago the men’s locker
room in the gymnasium was a hotbed for ping-pong. Players in between classes used to hasten to the
tables, and push the little, white ball
back and forth with such enthusiasm
and ardor that the sounds could be
heard from afar. But also! Today
it is so quiet in the lower part of
the gym that you can hear the drop
of a pin! What has happened to
these bat wielders that used to delight in smashing the celluloid all
over the table? Granted, some have
graduated, but football and basketball players graduate too, and still
their game carries on.

Some of the players that developed their amazing skill on the tables
at -Dalhousie include Bob Blois,
“Babe” Stewart, Colin Smith, Henry
Reardon, Don Bauld, Dave -Doig,
George Mosher, and Forbes Mountain. We started out to mention a
few, but the names came so fast to
our memory we found it hard to
stop. Incidently, all these former
Dalhousie athletes are now in the
Canadian Army, except Don Bauld
who is a Lieut. in the Navy.

Why aren’t the present students
taking up ping-pong or other minor
sports? Do we hear, “No time!
too much military training!” Well,
if anybody is wholly substituting
military training for sports he is
making a mistake. Sports are needed for the purpose of recreation and
entertainment just as much in times
of war as in times of peace.

A tennis tournament has _ been
completed with only a handful of
people participating. At the present
time a ping-pong league is being
formed. Is it to suffer the same fate
as tennis, or will it once again take
a leading place as one of the most
popular of college sports?

There are some who do not like a
game witha hard, physical contact
such as football gives, and there are
others who do not like anything so
“small and insignificant” as pingpong or badminton. Why aren’t they
taking part in some other college
sport? Occasionally one used to see
energetic students running around
the track in preparation for a coming track and field event. Things,
however, have now come to such a
pass that if the caretakers don’t look
smart we wouldn’t be surprised if a
“would be” track athlete found himself brushing through a field of
weeds as he turned the lap.

Boxing and swimming competitions have also seemed to disappear
from college athletics. We think an

 

Where the

College Men Congregate

Specialists in Smart Clothes for

Young Men.

*

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

112 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

oe


a Ps!

com
; nici: emilee Sal cf = _— a za we

SSA St

effort should be made to keep these
sports going. With the world in
such an enigmatical state, one may
never ‘know when the art of self
defense can be used to advantage,
or when a strong stroke will be
needed to save one’s life.

Last year the basketball team
travelled to New Brunswick, and the
Intermediates went to Acadia. Also
both football teams played in Wolfville. Not only did the basketball
and football teams endure wartime
transportation, but the debating society and.other groups were entertained at different @niversities. The
competitive spirit in most college organizations is still strong and active.
So minor sports should take heart,
reorganize and go on to new and
brighter victories.

MEMORIES .

Dal’s capture of the Maritime Intercollegiate boxing championships
in 1987 . . Phil Cole winning the six
mile marathon race ... Dal defeating Acadia in the N. S. Intercollegiate Tennis Championship of 1938,
and then going on to take the Maritime title from Mount Allison...
Henry Reardon winning ping-pong
tournaments ... Jack Ferguson and
“Bullet” MacKenzie defending Dal’s
swimming honors ... Norm MacRitchie’s mighty heave of the discus
(124 ft. 4% in.) to set a new mark
for the event.

My girl is so dumb that she'thinks
all wheat that sells for a dollar a
bushel is Buckwheat.

i TS
prea a Silay vase

Oa &
NR LG

The Coca- Cola Company

— —

|
:
Pt

 

... the way to win a welcome wherever you go

Where you find democracy, you find the feeling of friendliness, It’s
made up of little things that mark a way of life; sports, fair play, movies,
and swing music, A phrase like Have a‘‘Coke’ turns strangers into friends,
the same in both hemispheres. Around the globe Coca-Cola stands for
the pause that refreshes—has become the high-sign of the good-hearted.

Monthly Meeting

Of Cercle Francais :

The first meeting this term of the
Dalhousie Cercle Francais Society,
Friday afternoon at Shirreff Hall
was marked by an enthusiastic attendance of members, male and female, old and new. The proletariat
was surprised but nonetheless gratified by the presence of a lone engineer at the gathering.

This year’s president, J. B. Hibbetts gave a short address of
welcome to new members and continued with a description of the
French Summer School held this
summer at Trois Pistoles, Quebec,
under the auspices of the University
of Western Ontario.

An amusing and much appreciated
game was then introduced after
which members joined in singing a
variety and French and FrenchCanadian songs. An enjoyable tea
served by the girls promoted an
atmosphere of camaderie and loosed
a round of French phrases from long
silent tongues.

A humorous monologue by one of

the members and a discussion period ,
rounded out the program of one of!

N ovember 5, ae

 

the most successful meetings of Le
Cercle Francais to date.

Officers of the society are John
Hibbetts, president, who succeeds
C. McLean, and Florence MacDermaid, secretary-treasurer, who
replaces Harry Buxton.

 

Sophette—Ilike long skirts don’t
you?

Freshette—Yes,
too.

I’m bow-legged

Quality Shoes
|For Fall

Compliments of

Wallace Bros.

Limited

BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. S.

415

 

   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
    
  
     

of Canada, Limited, Halifax

A National
favorite

be

fa ““Coke’’= Coca-Cola

It’s natural for
popular names to
acquire friendly
abbreviations.
That’s why you
hear Coca-Cola
called ‘‘Coke.”’

 

659

 

PR Se th

 

 

 

 

 

 
