/
i

4,

>
©
'

x

a.
1
,

ee.

Ms e
i
igem

ayy
ans
Vee * @

¥
x! Sage y
Ph"
‘
t ..

—_—-
ik af. oe
my am

CANADA’S OLDEST
ENGINEERING EDITION OF

DEFEATS KING IN PHOTO FINISH

o—

——

Building Bridges...
, Engineering Efforts Through History
By W. P. COPP |

Professor of Engineering

For many generations going far back into ancient times
the Engineer’s work was largely of a military nature. It was
his duty to design engines of destruction and to provide the

~» means by which troops and their equipment could be moved
1 from place to place over difficult terraine, rivers and other na
tural obstacles.

It was not until 1818 that the Institute of

_ Civil Engineers of Great Britain was founded, he term “civil”
being applied to the engineers engaged in activities that had to
do with the civil population in general as opposed to the military

|‘ engineer whose work was as described above. ye
A Thomas Telford, the first president of the Institute of Civil
Engineers, at a council meeting January 4th, 1828, gave his
famous definition of civil engineering as “the art of directing

the great sources of power in nature for the use and convenience

of man, as the means of production and of traffic in states, both

for external and internal trade

as applied to the construction

“+ of roads, bridges, aqueduets, canals, river navigation and: docks
for internal intercourse and exchange; in the construction of
ports, harbors, moles, breakwaters and lighthouses; and in the
art of navigation by artificial power for purposes of commerce,
and in the drainage of cities and towns.

j Before the year 1825 or there4 abouts knowledge had not progressed
sufficiently to design the members
of bridges according to the stresses
they were to carry nor was there
“y any adequate knowledge of the loads
| the bridges had to support. However with the advent of railways, it
became necessary to know and not
to guess concerning the stresses and
strains, for the loads were much
heavier than any previously encountered.

Yet bridges cf a kind had been
built from the dawn of civilization
and it is the purpose of the following paragraphs to bring to the attention of the readers some few of

_ them.

There is no mention of bridges in
the Bible and very little in contemporary history. Bridges of course
_ offered an opportunity for an enemy
invader to cross natural barriers to
attack. Consequently permanent
bridges were undesirable often and
progress in building them would be
slow indeed. It is claimed that the
river Euphrates was bridged by a

_ brick arch about 2200 B.C. in the

_ time of Nimrod third, ruler after

Noah and one hundred years after

the flood. Herodotus gives the earli
est record of a wooden bridge, built

783 B.C. during the reign of Nitrocis,

Queen of Assyria, over the Eu
phrates river in Babylon. Its width

was 35 feet and length 660 feet. It

consisted of wooden platforms rest
i ing on stone piers. These platforms

a , Were moved at night to preveni

_ thieves from entering the city.

No doubt the Egyptians who could

build great pyramids also built

bridges but of these few traces re
main. Wood of course, which was

often used would decay and the rav
f/. 7 ages of bostile armies, then as now,

would destroy the structures of brick
|

oy

‘

and stone. Some remains of early
ve _ Grecian bridges of unknown date are
in existence; one Persian bridge 1250
© feet long, having twenty pointed
_ arches 23 feet in length each between
piers 29 feet thick remain today in a
fair state of preservation. It is believed to date from 350 B.C.
Pe At least twenty Roman bridges remained a few years ago from early
>} times. Not les sthan eight bridges
| _ erossed the Tiber at Rome. For two
y thousand _ years many of these
ff _ bridges have endured floods, earth1 _ quakes and the violence of war. One
_'* of the reasons for this was the fact
] that they were well built for it is
claimed that the builder was held
ae | as sy ‘hae aaa
: . ‘o AAP OY ahs ees! ea yd

|Chapel on the center pier.

years, the final payment being withheld to that time. It would appear
that at long last many of these
bridges still remaining are doomed
for in these later days they have
met foes more remorseless and more
powerful than any hitherto met in
their long life history, foes who care
nothing for antiquity nor have reverence for relics of long past years.
The first bridge over the Tiber, Pons

‘Sublicius, was built in the year 621

B.C. of wood. The floor could be
removed. It was over this bridge
that the Etruscans under Lars Porsena attempted to cross. Macaulay
immortalized the defence and every
school boy knows, “How Horatius
saved the’ Bridge, in the brave days
of old”. This bridge was destroyed
in the year 500 B.C. and was twice
restored by the Chief Priests. In
1877 its reconstructed remains were
removed to clear the river channel.

The first London bridge spanning
the Thames is believed to have existed prior to 978 A.D. It is referred
to in the Laws of Ethelred and William of Malmesburry refers to its
destruction in 974 A.D. during one of
the encounters with the Danes. The
first authentic records refer to one
1014 which was swept by a flood in
1091. Reconstructed in 1097 it was
destroyed by fire in 1136. The old
London bridge was started in 1176
by Peter of Colechurch, a member of
the “Brothers of the Bridge”. It
was completed in 1209. Peter of
Colechurch died in 1205 and his remains were buried in a crypt of the
This
bridge was built of stone. The piers
were so thick the channel of the
river was much curtailed by them.
There was a chapel on the center
pier and defensive towers, upon
which the heads of decapitated traitors often were hung. were part of
its construction. The spans were
from nine to twenty feet with a
single draw span. The total length
was 940 feet. Shops and houses of
wood were built on it, projecting
over the river and leaving a lane
for crossing 12 to 14 feet in width
only. In 1212 fire broke out among
these shops at the’ south end; a great
crowd gathered on the bridge; another fire started among the houses
on the north end and three thousand
or more of the spectators were
drowned or burned to death. The
houses were rebuilt for they were
an important source of revenue. In
1481 a whole block of these overhanging houses toppled into the
Continued on page 4

f
it

‘att 4

te,
, +4 7 ith
i ab ie

ae hs Mul
pRee BU \
Wh a, *

4 ty

; F f ye —- oy
: i tl F ‘f , “ i Th ue - a j
: : " nal | ¥ iS A r
rl 7-8 f a Fe 4 ar} ems : Eth | % Ba hate 2M x
F : ae F - ar ade i - a ce - i tee f ’
F . .* ral) ) Wy v 5 4 el .
‘ tl 7 P 4 ] ca ?
8 Te ‘Lou. a a a. nt L Feo 4
i ~P 4 + at FT ] Z r , ev
x =! ’ s ‘ UF ie uy rN
ort ‘ 7 . : ‘ 4 . : S 7
Q i. ® L w 7 laa wu The i a i i rig in F
y= % a Ng da ' ) es. s 2. ‘ ne aL ha a
, im ee ¥ ‘ ta Liga ple, PF ea i ee ry t are ( ie) Fan , “2 . ¥ / 7 i i
? # f Le ig [ ra Tr i, a Pp ‘er rt 1 |
i . i a . ‘ers r = Je al é Pa “a Y ores : ms ;
i ir . 4 ¥ 7 ee é a A wr * 1 A. ' :
i. Le wis 4 \ a ua! ce Lee ss t i
; E ic. tne 8 ft 1 “ 7 { ay , : r, :
f Nae 4 f L
q .
’
‘
’ a .
7
Pd

STUDENT

PUBLICATION

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 10, 1944

a

Election

Students’ Council
President
A. &S.
15
51
Vice-President
Saunderson ..
Sutherland

Glee Club
President
Hartling
Sheffman ...
Vice-President
Hopewell
Robertson. . .
D.A.A.C.
President
Clarke
Fraser

oH<«
OG

o2

43
21

22
4]

60
6

48
18
Arts and Science

Senior:
MacQuarrie
Nicholson

Hartling

Junior:
Archibald
Robertson... ss...

Sophomore :
E. Clarke
Farquhar

Departure of
An Engineer

Our friend, everybody’s friend,
Yank Bronson, has gone. As he departed for the last time from the
Registrar’s office, Prof. Bennet gripped his shoulder with a wavering
hand and said, “Yank, this is like
busting up an old friendship. Our
years together in English 2 were the
happiest of my life.” Yank just
stroked his chin and sobbed. He
paused for a moment at Sir
statue. Never again would he stick a
cigarette butt and an old plug hat
on the bard’s bronze bust.

For ten minutes he waited for
someone to chance along and open
the door; despairing of aid, he
deftly raised his foot, placed it on
the latch, and kicked. The Math 2
building faced him (an involuntary
“Gad man!” rumbled off his tongue);
he turned his back and walked eastward, a stalwart son of Dal haloed
by the sunset glow. His thoughts
wandered back to his freshman days,
to the first time C. K. had spied him
dozing in class. What had the old
boy said? ‘“What’s the matter with
you, Yank? Why ain’t you like me?
When I wake up at seven a.m. I
throw my wife aside, leap out of

En g. Com.

Returns

Med. Law
0 123 ()
4 T 22

Total
251
219

Dent.
15
6

10

12

2 ‘9 6

13

70
42

ae) EZ,
Engineering
Burgess

Oakley

Commerce
Churehill-Smith ....

Dentistry
Burke
E. Fraser

Universality

| ... Take Note

Possibly a few of the more hardy
readers of the “Gazette” still
struggle bravely, though painfully,
through that column under the heading of “Universality” wherein a
would-be imitator of the inimitable
Tasman spouts nonsense.

The elite of the campus, (us Engineers to you) while never approving of his mad ravings, have thus
far refrained from comment, but
when he has the conceit to say that
he (with apparent tendencies toward
Arts) has something to offer in the
education of an engineer, then we
must pronounce him a hopeless case.

We extend an invitation to this
“great exponent of liberal education”
to visit us in the drafting room and
see genius at work. Of course he
would be exposed to knowledge beneficial to humanity and this might
overtax his intellect which is obviously feeble.

If the outward mark of a learned
man is babble, as our great (7)
journalist (??) stated, then we bow
low before him and acclaim him a
veritable Solomon.

GOVERN YOURSELF
All members of grad. class who

No. 18

. . . Drinking Beer

The Engineering Banquet

As compiled by H. D. MacNab
“What ho!” called the portly gentleman on the top floor

apartment of the Lord Nelson
trembled and shook.

to the bell-boy, as the building

“What manner of disturbance is this?”

“It’s the noice of feasting in the main salon,’ quoth the
bell-boy—the Engineers are con congregating below.”

Down on the main floor the big front doors swung open
and shut as throngs of Dalhousie engineers streamed to the
banquet. This was definitely an engineers’ night. The momen
tous occasion had always been
the engineers’ year.

regarded as the main event in

It had been carefully planned and ardu
ously planned weeks in advance. Each and every engineer knew

what to expect and none could afford to miss it.

Seniors, fresh
men and second-year men came from all directions to the feast
that was for them and their guests only.

The entire company that
from any such individuals that

gathered was completely free
would tend to dilute the quality

of personnel in attendance. So important was the stress laid on
complete seclusion from the outside world that even women

were barred—absolutely.

Before the banquet began in state
the great minds discussed the deeper
and more complex problems which
preyent man’s mastery of the universe. They partook of small refreshments and anxiously awaited
the great moment when thé host
would settle to the feast.

Eventually the scheduled hour arrived with clocklike precision the engineers and their honored guests
settled to the great occasion. The
countenances of all present expressed
extreme satisfaction as progress was
made through the opening dishes of
anthracite mush, dusted with boiler
rust, to the main course of galvanized capon. Thé first course was an
especially fine concoction, but no one
was able to analyze it completely.
(It was stated from reliable quarters
that the luscious flavor was due to a
special arrangement, and a combinationof slag, mortar and asphalt.

It was during the banquet that a
few engineers rose to their greatest
height in technical discussions. Some
occasionally left the banquet hall,
doubtless for reference books to further the available information on the
subjects in question. The Horizontal
Club was in particular difficulties because they had not to date chosen
a new president and were without
adequate leadership. Their main
problem was the solution of a
strange phenomenon. At various
places in the hall the gravitational
forces were so great that members
were pulled off their chairs to the
floor.
unsolved although integrals were set
up and down in vain attempts to secure the answer. It is not known
what the final hypothese were, because no formal record was kept
of the meeting—and least, there appears to have been none kept, because members were asking the next
day just what went on during the
latter part of the affair.

Events moved on swiftly. The
noble president of the Engineering
Society, W. D. Hagen, rose from his
Seat and gave the toast to the King.
When the King was soundly drunk
other toasts followed: to the University, given by Don MacLeod and
replied to by Prof. Adshead. J. R.
MacQuarrie offered the toast to the
profession which was responded to
by Prof. Copp. Professor Macneil]
gave the toast to the graduating
class and G. Lantz responded. Any
engineer who was absent felt his
ere on the folowing day when fellow engineers quoted excerpts from
the above choice speeches.

It was at this point that the pres
bed, fake a cold shower and a brisk| have not had their pictures taken|entation of the Bob Walter award

rubdown; and then, I feel osy all
over.” “That’s O.K. for you, sir,”
Yank had replied, “but we ain’t got
no Rosy at our house.” He sighed,
and mused, “I got more 39’s that
way.
Unerringly his feet guided him up
the Science Building stairs—he had
so wanted to be there when the
elevator would be installed. Now, at
last he was home. He entered the
drafting room, and gazed at every
desk, ‘stool, and Varga girl. A

Continued on page 3

£11 ’
Me i

a hk, Lie, ey :

a ee Se ek ad : “3 ‘et
: 0 Th itty AiRNY igen re ‘ hk

en ny eet rh ee, a ‘ ‘
i? See Aan Dea na ey t

7 y oe he erie i i ‘ :

for the year book should do so at
ence,
Open House, Saturday
11/8/44, Shirriff Hall, %
Get money in early for year book.

night,

a Ea

FLASH !

Dal Tigers defeated Army basketballers Wednesday night by a
close sscore of 30—28.

The Munro Day musical comedy
will begin at 7.15 p.m.—not at
7.45 as previously announced.

,was made by Professor Copp to
Gerald Lantz. The history and
significance of this award is given
elsewhere. Lantz was called on for
a speech but the great honor bestowed on him left him speechless
and he sat down amid thunderous
applause,

The highlight of the evening came
as the chairman introduced the guest
speaker — H. F. Ryan. Mr. Ryan
punctuated his speech, on “The Science of Electronics”, not by gestures
of his hands, but by experiments.
On a long table towards the front of
the hall was displayed a very complicated set of apparatus from which
wires, switches, plugs, electron tubes,

i ‘ ‘ 4 ; ‘
“6 Ete ©: ie ed f +, rl 4 ih ike oy big = 4 A ay : i nn Dal Fa od : Sine . / ot

oe ih ele Ae J te = she ye. nies pan th pt air ona ley we See ater» —~ Teepe er ee pier oaeninad eB be ~ yt itm ane ere - a
Ce i eee er ee wom ol ys aide ays)! ei ane f

Sy oe) Stik

} 5 “oe” i »
LS Leh. 4 Oa Jee le Sk :
ei

This mystery was completely |

aerials and bulbs made occasional
appearances. As Mr. Ryan spoke
the men of Tomorrow gathered
around the table and watched with
sustained interest and awe the
events that took place before them.
It is indeed unfortunate that censorship limits the account of this phase
of the evening but war is war, and
those to whom secrets are revealed
must hold them in silence.

At the end of the hall were two
doors with glass insets. One could
not notice without amusement the
activity that prevailed there. It was
the only peephole from the outside
world, and waitresses struggled to
obtain vantage of the position. A
smile jerked to several engineers
faces as these onlooker’s expressions
lehanged from one of perusing interest to one of goggle-eyed amazement as the fiery sparks quivered
and cracked over the apparatus.

A certain tenseness gripped the
|engineers as the word spread around
ithat the Hawkins girls were outside
lying in wait for those on whom they
had designs. When this was known
it became quite evident that those
beautiful flowers presented to our
president were not from the hotel
management. Several engineers left

hortly afterward while Mr. Ryan
‘continued, for those that remained,
\into the depths of his subject. Time
hastened on and Mr. Rvan finished
his discussion ,and Prof. Copp ex|pressed on behalf of the engineers
their appreciation of his discourse.

The group broke up and dispersed
as rapid as it had gathered. It had
been an eventful evening, full of
pleasure and full of learning, with a
marvelous revelation of the possibilities of the future. As each man departed that night, he realized m
deeply than ever the responsibilities
| that rest on engineers as they go
forward to open up new fields for
the convenience of man..

Back Up The

' ° Team’s Attack

Come on Dal—you'’ve always given
support to your winning teams, how
about giving it to hockey; it’s winning too! We hear a rumour that
St. Mary’s is going to trim the pants
off Dal. Of course, that rumour
comes from St. Mary’s. How about
coming out Sunday and just show
them who is going to have their
pants trimmed. There also a
rumour that St. Mary’s turn out a
good rooting section , incidently
that’s no rumour. So come on Dal
—roll out to the game Sunday
afternoon and show St. Mary’s what
real college yells sound like They’re
just begging to be beaten, and only
with your cheering support can we
accommodate them. John “Lauchie”
and the “Dugger” will be on hand
to lead the gang in the cheering, so
don’t forget, give your team the support it needs and at the same time
see a good brand of hockey.

is

 
, sought out a haven for the night.

: s Oldest Calls, Bae in gaeen

1 any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
as d that they represent the opinion of

ie eee: AER iy Mba dente ak aces Cursor X, McSlide Rule
aa: .Alpha P. Cosine, H. Moron Prismatic

etter teeters

EDITORIAL

af ny E or. ‘the first time in several years the Engineers have
ed and written their own Boilermakers’ issue. The Editorial

diculous ; to include matters of general interest as well as

of particular interest to Engineering students.
_ Needless to say, our issue has been written in a spirit of
fun, and we have no apologies to make to anyone. We have re"ceived invaluable aid from the regular Gazette staff, a few noneh engineers, and members of the Engineering’ Department. We
i are especially proud of our own writers and cartoonists who
4 oe laboured to make this BOILERMAKERS’ ISSUE a suc
li cess. ‘Take it away.

oe

HAS ARTS AN INFERIORITY COMPLEX?
In the Engineering department we have been aware for

ny F D some time of the slurs that are continually cast upon us in the

f _ columns of this organ of culture.

We are moved, not so much by the sharpness of the attacks,
ae misdirected as they are, as by the feeling that must engender

be.

We _erment at the expense of Arts,

a them. These critics feel that Engineering has been given pref
But cannot the artsman defend

| for an education? Tt is ‘amusing “to hear a SE Seasuative’ jour_ nalist, who is busy studying English in order that he may be
~ fluent at two cents per line, charge the engineers with being

1 Bes mercenary; or another who is only interested enough in modern

- progress to study the one compulsory science course, charging
I as: ‘that an Engineering course is not sufficiently broad. Do ‘they

al

a think that the sciences are pursued with less altruism than the

f Wr arts?

‘ Wi
* 4
3

ae One of the prize claims of the artsmen is that they are
he, humanitarians. This is so far from the truth that we would
oe _ really like to see these birds having to live without the benefits
; i _ they owe those whose interests diverged a bit from pure culp ture to the practical problems of life.

Bye Engineers have to handle men in the shop, field and mine,
a and upon the co-operation they achieve depends the success and

i
on

in ‘safety of an enterprise. In this qs in other fields engineers are
the men who solve the problems, get the job done and face the
world as-it.is.

The times have made this class of self-styled intelligensia
iM st minority. Why cannot they not face reality and admit that
Baye ‘iti is their own inadequacy and nothing that the engineers have

a y ‘done that has made them so rare as to be a mere curiosity that

yi, nf
Hi Vie
Vy, i,

ai invites the occasional smile.

NG i 4) Draughting Room Institute of Pulverizing Onslaughts

~ @.—What Dalhousian is most in need of squelching?
 A—100%: Rufus!
_ It appears that Rufus, King of Gymnasium, after all these
ears as the campus pet, has become rather irksome to the slip"stick brigade. In the Great Storm of not so long ago, our DartPh: mouth sontingent became lost in its search for the ferry, and
They begged admission to
Tutus’ kinedom: and were they welcomed warmly by him who
professes to be the guardian angel of one and all!
No! A stern hand barred the door, and in language fitting
Mi noble demeanour, the king cried. “What-in-hell_—dy-a-think
0) this. is a bloody rooming-house?” The half-frozen wanderers
. fi departed, muttering blasphemies, curses and promises of
se we, _ Fevenge.
e | Does Rufus meet his Waterloo? See the 1945 Boilermakers’

ee. oa. ee

ies re Are Shirreff Hall meals worth (a) 50¢; (b) 45ce;
aye (c) a darn?

‘summary of opinion indicates that the food is satisfac
y (on Sunday, at least), but the surroundings are (censored).

‘Miss MacKeen Manor, the sweater girl, is giving way to the

Pe itibenetk kid,'and as a result there is a daily phenomena of

| Dihese persons, ‘apparently female, dressed in heavy checkered

a skirts extending to the knees, and slacks which just about meet

i vein This is undoubtedly the “Slabby Joe’ outfit we’re been

| herve about, our fashion expert states, and, to cure it, he

are emnends that the boys appear for just one meal in divides.

a3@¢ How are you impressed uu Law’s Students’ Council
campaign?
e A.s: The first reply was all we could hear. Here it is, word
ih ey word for word:
| “In some aspects Law is a highly respected and honourable
pabReasion in others, the persons who have the greatest respect
for it are only lawbreakers and the lawyers themselves. ° Let’s
pare it with housebreaking: the housebreaker looks for an
on window. the lawyyer looks for loopholes through which to
“Pass, the law of the land. Lawyers fight for or against jus« dopendine which side yields the greatest return. This is
Se ienduble, however. The engineer leaves a bridge as a
ument wee work: scientists e all kinds leave works hene
Meet
Gerald Lantz

The Bob Walter Award is the
highest honour which the Engineering Society may bestow upon one
of its graduates. This award is presented to the graduating engineering student who best exemplifies
the qualities of Bob Walter, a former outstanding engjneering student
who accidently met death in a hunting accident. Bob Walter possessed those qualities of fellowship,
sportsmanship and scholarship.

The winner of this award for 1944
was Gerald Lantz of Fairview. He
came from Halifax County Academy to Dal where he started in his
chosen profession. Gerald is a great
hockey enthusiast and plays on the
first line of Dal’s 1944 hockey team.

He is the engineering representtative of the Students’ Council for
this year.

Gerald besides graduating in Engineering with his diploma, also receives his B. Se. and will continue
at Nova Scotia Technical College
for two more years to receive his
degree in Engineering,

Fine Job

Mr. Bowes

In 1941 Bill Bowes graduated in
Engineering from Dalhousie, and
entinued his course at the Technical
College. Less than three years
later the name of Professor William
Bowes was added to the Dalhousie
Academic _ staff. Yes, Studley,
though few of you are aware of it,
one of your fellows is back; this
time on the other side of the fence.

Professor Bowes was introduced
at surveying camp. To the wonderment of all the boys, he showed them
in his own notebook of the 1937
camp accuracy, speed and neatness
that few could hope to attain.
Though new to the teaching profession, Prof. Bowes has proven his
mettle, and has won the respect and
friendship both of those who are
meeting him for the first time and
those who knew his as a student.

On the occasion of the BOILERMAKERS’ ISSUE, with which he
has kindly assisted, we take the opportunity to wish him many successful years at Dalhousie. Perhaps not
too far in the future the chaperones
at the Boilermakérs’ Ball will include Prof. and Mrs. W. H. Bowes.

The Story
Of Bob Walter

In the Autumn of 1940, Bob Walter met with a fatal accident while
hunting near his home at Saint
John. To perpetuate his memory, his
fellow students at Dalhousie éstablished an award to be presented anually to the Engineering Student
most like Bob.

During the time Bob was studying
Engineering he was active in the
social life of the college. He served
two years on the Students’ ‘Council
and was President of the Engineering Society during his last college
year. He was a member of the Phi
Theat Fraternity and was elected

‘treasurer of the class of ’40.

Bob went in for sports to a considerable extent, canoeing, sailing
and hunting being favorites. At Dal
he played interfaculty football, basketball and hockey.

Bob had an agreeable personality
that made him extremely popular,
assured him of success in whatever
pursuits he chose to follow. Probably the most striking thing about
Bob was his personality, cheerful
and friendly, Always in a pleasant
mood, he treated everyone as a good
friend; for that matter you couldn’t
know Bob for long without being
his friend.

The choice of Gerald Lantz as
this year’s winner of the Bob Walter Memoriaal Award seems particularly apt. Gerald has the same
type of agreeable personality as
Bob and although perhaps not so
active in social activities as Bob,
Gerald is active in sports and is
certainly deserving of this high honor. All those who know Gerald are
pleased that he has been so honored
and heartily congratulate him.

SSA NNSA

An optimist is a fellow who thinks
his wife has given up cigarettes

when he see cigar butts around the
house.
* * x
Doctor: You have acute appendicitis,
:Look, doc, I eame here to be
examined, not admired. \
Me ye? | ae
“Hell!” said Satan as he picked up
the telephone.

Diddle, diddle dumbling, my son John
Went to bed with his stockings on
One shoe off and one shoe on

Boy, was he plastered.

Wilson says “An intelligent girl is
one who knows how to refuse a kiss
without being deprived of it.

SS ssettestssssssansssusssssssssssses

by money. With money
well, you know.”?

as a god, the path of Law leads to—

Maybe I’m slightly pr ‘ejudiced, but I’m trying-to save some

of those in pre-Law who
lost beyond redemption.
: Ds
- What is the most
A.? (a) A new flag,

are foriunate enough not to be quite

x *

pressing need of the campus?

The effect of the tattered rag drifting in the breeze these

days has aroused the ire of every decent engineer.

who, deeply meditating more

eyes cast on the ground: Arts students, surrounded bv

walls of the Law

draughting room.

Society passed a resolution ur
one cent of their laboratory dep

brand new Union Jack.
(b) Men’s Dormitory:

Professors
important matters, walk with
the hich

Building classrooms, never seem to notice what
is apparent to one who must regard it constantly

from the

By a unanimous vote, the Engineering
ging all students to contribute
osits towards the purchase of a

The boys seem to think that the much publicised “college
spirit” ’could be boosted by keeping all non-Haligonians together

on the campus.
rooms at Shirreff Hall.

For the present, they would be satisfied with
Some who aren't verv discriminate

would be contented to share a room. What say, Miss McKeen?
For the common. good, after all!

- saetnn tenets nena ee —

, ee

o. Bie

: i
Boao. eens ote . a
a ee ee

nm a appa Pa et a SST
-_ + 2

: MEDIUM or MILD

PLAYER'S NAVY CUT CIGARETTES

DALHOUSIANS ...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

Aquamarine - 
Gem Of The Sea

The seablue color of a
fine aquamarine—a variety of beryl—is responsible for its name,

After any Show

or * ee @

Before any Meal

Large transparent crystals come from its chief
source, Brazil, and are
comparatively inexpensiye.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists

HALIFAX HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

Nova Scotia

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE
ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Halbousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Bngivedvine, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses of neeenen standing,
of M.A.,,
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

leading to degrees

p The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average

3 about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 ' ia

& year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men,

 

‘ ‘ re
=e 4
ctor ae Pte Bem dee PL
   

Fe)

sie >)

Reading from left to right, front to back, the “We Love Us Boys of tre .

oak Se

Take a good look—many

have only a few short months of college life ahead of them.
For many years these Engineers have borne without reply the sarcastic witticisms of all Studley. But

here you have them risen from their lethargy. They’ve charges laid against them.

Determined to reply to

thier drafted Satan, and hereafter they’re pulling no punches.
You’ve probably seen most of the lads around. They form about 50% of every Varsity sports organization; they’re the men behind the scenes at the Glee Club shows; they do their share in keeping Dalhousie

a big name at the Blood Donor Clinic.

THEY ARE THE ONLY GROUP TO HAVE BOTH A BANQUET

AND A BALL. And considerate, too: they dre responsible for the presence of “Life” Magazine at Pine Hill

during the summer.

Maybe you're not aware of the fact that these boys are the life of the Campus, for,

with the exception of the writer, they are the most modest, unassuming boys you can find.
It is not known for certain when their famed Engineering Society was first organized; its history was

washed away when the punch bowl broke.
built an imaginary bridge over the Red Sea some thousands of years ago.

It is suspected that the first president was the famous fellow who
Though these his successors can
not hope to perform like deeds, their feats in mortar and steel will undoubtedly become almost as legendary.
Not long ago they took their minds off post-war reconstruction long enough to draw up a completely
new initiation ceremony for freshmen engineers, Kindly pass the word along, for the boys are determined

_ that only the fittest shall survive.

The Graduates

Don Matheson’s cheery face and
hearty talk are highly recommended
as a tonic for the depressed and deerepit of spirit. “Matty” has been
very active in athletics during his
stay at Dal, and his spirit is well
known to interfaculty hockey and

 

- football teams, when he’s not in the

gym.

Don divides his time between
the dratting room and the corner
drug store. This fellow will overcome all with his friendliness and

good nature.

+ *

Geraid Lantz is active this year in

Senior Hockey and Student Council

activities. One of his minor accomplishments is the coaching of engineers interfaculty hockey team thru
athus far undefeated season. At
the annual Society Banquet Gerald
was named winner of the Bob Walter Award. Such an honor speaks
tor itself of the high regard of his

te.low students.
, es 3K *

Presented elsewhere in this issue
is “Willy” Hagen, President of the
Engineering Society and well known
campus figure, has won a name for
himself in the history of our society.
A capable and dependable worker on
committees too numerous to mention, Bill has also been active in
sports. This year Bill is serving as
member-at-iarge on the Student
Council, If college days be the
gauge of future fortunes, we know
tha. a road of accomplishment and
success hes ahead for our president.

* % tie

‘‘Tionest John, they calls ’em,”’ and
Weil deserved is the name. Integrity of John MacQuarrie’s calibre
ctummands more than a mere respect. John is vice-president of our
suciety this year and an able representative on Siudents’ Council. The
engineering department may well

Pe. 4, be proud in turning out a man like

b

Y
ag

’

him.
ok * %
Jack Winterborne is the efficient
secretary-treasurer of our organization this year. “Windy” has in his

Poy Bood- -natured way earned a place for

iumself in the hearts of all-time
Campus Engineers. May the best of
iuck attend you, Jack, as you jour
oh ney forth from Studley!

* * 4

And from Somerset, Bermuda, he

, _/ came to win peace with the engin
   

,
\

b

~ eers of Studley. His easy-going and

affable manner was readily acceptible to all engineers. Of late it has
been rumored, and not without basis,

‘\ that “Gildy” has forsaken his bachelor’s ideals; but we know that

shows. will continue to be his chief
love and heart’s delight. The world
yy (Bermuda to you) has a place for
© Harvey bert
* *
A pillar ae strength in our struc
pul Oren Sak ©,

ne , ”

the maids’ quarters ?

In a discussion held by the Selected
Socialist Society of Science Students
(Engineering Branch) held at the
annual Engineer’s banquet, the question came up as to how the Engineers at Dal could best assist his
fellow student in attaining an education and at the same time enjoy
himself. After a mild discussion,
(casualties—2 black eyes and a full
bottle) it was generally agreed that
this could best be executed by placing the Engineering Society in
charge of the Faculty, Board of
Governors, Studies Committee, Students’ Council, Committee on Library,
Sherriff Hall, Delta Gamma and
Senatus Academicus.

Several methods of combining culture (in its more illiterate sense)
and gaiety were suggested. For instance, it was pointed out that by
eliminating morning classes, homework and labs, by having sports for
everyone in the afternoon and a
dance every night, the private life

of the average student would be
much improved (from a_ studies
standpoint). This idea was soon

abandoned, since the opinion of all
was that this life was too rugged
for even the most physically adept
Art student.

Another method of combining culture and frivolity, literally speak
 

 

 

DEPARTURE OF—
Continued from page 1

ture is Bob Wickwire, whose hover- |
ing vigilance has guided the Engineering Society through the delicate} preathless hush fell over the room
problems of dance and banquet this | a; he went from desk to desk, kissyear. A rosy future lies in wait for|ing students on the nearest cheek,
“Wick”. (No, we’re not referring to| professors behind the ear. At one
her complexion). desk he hesistated slightly.
ieee | “Gildie,” he sobbed, “whatever
Frank MacKay came to Dal in| people say I want you to know you’re
the fall of ’40 from Tatamagouche;|mah ideal!” Even hard boiled enhis graduation from Studley this | gineers could not refrain from chokspring will be a loss to the society|ing at these affectionate words,
and to the atmosphere of drafting-| While a solitary tear rolled down
room life. We would warn lady| Windy’s nose to his drawing board.
readers that have not come to know|A* the inner draughting room door
the charms of this lovable personal-|& Collided with Prof. Copp who,
ity. to beware of the man who has | grabbing him by the collar, gave him

= is ition: 39 EE
so completely captured the hearts his benediction: Yank , (the Ga
i? Haines AB: dha Games Hs zette reporter cocked his head from
Sy | ° you, inder the table and scribbled with

lipstick on shirt-cuff) you know what
we expect of you. Fight for King
and Country, fight for our cherished
freedom, and above all, fight for a
new Campus flag.” The lines of
Yank’s rugged jaw hardened as he
earnestly replied, “Sir, you can bet
on me.’” His pent-up emotions could
bear the strain no longer. Muttering a curse on the freshman class,
he stumbled to the door; there he
turned, and with one great fist
aloft, he cried, “Good stuff, fellows,
g-g-good stuff!” Then he was gone,

 

- * *

George Smith has been an active
figure in basketball, badminton, tennis and ping-pong during his three
years at Dal, and has played on
Interfaculty hockey and _ football
teams, This man is the model of
engineering efficiency, getting the
most done with the least effort.

* K *

The West is represented in this
year’s graduating class by Dave
Burgoyne. Aside from his many
social conquests, Dave has been a
valued member of Interfaculty hockey and football teams, and has always been an enthusiastic participant in Engineering activities.

GARRICK

Monday - Tuesday - Wed.

“TIS EVERYBODY HAPPY”
Ted Lewis & Orchestra

 

DID YOU KNOW ...
That Shirreff Hall was laid out by
our own Professor W. P. Copp?
That the plans are stored just
outside the Draughting Room?
That some devilish fellow claims
to have found a secret entrance to

Saturday to Friday

“PHANTOM OF THE OPERA”
Nelson Eddy—Susanna Foster

 

never more to slap a back vent over
an inked plate.

Epitaph:
The flag stood at quarter mast,
Professors lined their doors,

|

ing, was hit upon by the idea of
holding dances in the library. In
such an atmosphere one would necessarily be imbued with culture, the
dances enticing students to the
library. To prevent fright and panic
among the students, the librarians
would be locked up in the basement
safeguarding the students from their
horrible stares and blasphemous
threats of expulsion. Naturally, to
prevent lapses into the fourth dimension and descent into the horizontal,
and in upholding the engineers’ prohibitionist tendency, alcholic beverages of all kinds would be prohibited
from these nightly dances (pooling
their rations on week ends proves
more effective).

By governing Delta Gamma the
Engineering Society could sponsor
more Sadie Hawkins’ dances, saving
the boys a great deal of money and
getting dates for the girls, thus
working for all-round happiness.
Through the work of the Society it
could be arranged for the girls of
Delta Gamma to teach the male Arts
students how to knit so that these
inert masses might help the war
effort by knitting bundles for Britain
(a decided increase over their present effort). If these classes could
be made unchaperoned | engineers
could learn knitting, too.

The Engineers, being the most active and. balanced group on _ the
campus, would make an excellent
students’ council, promoting more social and athletic activities with the

(aim of bringing back the glory that

was Dal’s. Naturally, being from
Studley, they would take a greater
interest in Studley than the presi
dents from Forrest have taken in the |

past few years. This probably explains the recent decrease in student
activities—these Forrest presidents
(seemingly) hold their positions for
the money they get out of them,

|rather than for the organization of

an active and effective council. It

 

Campus Beene Trt Presents
Blue - Print for Culture

is unconstitutional for a man, representing students who probably do not
wander up to Studley more than
once or twice a year, to govern
Studley in all of its more important
activities. The Engineering Society,
being the most active society on the
campus and being interested in Studley as a whole, would be the perfect
solution to the problem.

All of these above plans have been
temporarily postponed pending the
investigation of sabotage by a certain law student who evidently
thinks culture is the art of critizing
engineers. Upon this students capture these plans will be put into
effect, and the engineers will proceed
to make Dal a true seat of culture
(in its modern sense) instead of its
present position: a conglomeration of
dead Arts students, money-mad Commerce students and hibernating Med
students.

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wed.

“OH MY DARLING
GLEMENTINE”

“CHEROKEE STRIP”

O

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“SUBMARINE BASE”

OXFORD

Mon., Tues.
“LADY TAKES A CHANCE”
pipdnajinieasantsiaseridnsnioumnbnsainaemenesisanicgatie taal

     
    
 
   

 

 

 
 
   
   
    
   
  

 

Wed., Thurs.
“PARIS AFTER DARK”
also “Adventures of a Rookie”
plchbsbicliphiabhtseteteiinin ia ninth ascend takes en
Fri,, Satur.
“DANCING MASTERS”
with Laurel and HHardy
“APACHE TRAIL”

 
 

 

CASINO

ALL WEEK
STARTING SATURDAY

*

WHAT A
WOMAN

WITH

As Yank strode his last long strides | ROLALIND RUSSELL

Across the Studley moors.

He wasn’t the best of students

He shone in no prof’s eye;

But he was known to one and all
As “Yank, a right grand guy!”

|
|
|
|

BRIAN AHERNE

| Capitol

Monday - Tuesday - Wed.

FALLING
SPARROW

with
GARFIELD

-*

JOHN

LOST
ANGEL

with
MARGARET O’BRIEN

 

 

 

re a pis sewn

 

-+- Or how to be at ease in Lancashire

Among the British you hear a friendly greeting when the
going is rough. It’s Thumbs up. The Canadians have introduced another just as cordial: Have a “Coke.” It means
Let’s be friends to both CWAC and WREN. From Ottawa
to the Seven Seas, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes
—is the gracious introduction between kindly-minded folks.

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

 

one up

rhs

     

a. ti
Ps oe ea
Bee Tia sS ae 3

 

« ‘coker Coca-Cola

It’s natural for opular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s wh you hear Coca-Cola
gabe ed“ ‘Co F 673

ea

 
 

    

ae
a
Toe

ae ee

 
  
  
  

Bill Hagen
One of the most widely known figy e ures on Studley, Bill is what we call
aes. an “active member of the student
__-—-—sOBBill. came here from the old Hali_ ~~ far County Academy and started in
Science. He switched his course to
Engineering and is now president of
the Engineering Society. Always a
a leader and a go-getter, he has been

 
  
 

7 ¥
on many social committees, repre' sented Engineers on the D.A.A.C.,

- and is a member of the Students’
Council.

' His interests in student activities
are varied; he has played football
“te and hoekey (winning a felt ‘D’ for
| _ the former, and has worked hard for
| the Glee Club.

This year Bill will get his B.Sc.
fi and diploma of Engineering’ and
_ plans to take Civil Engineering at
‘Tech, where we’re sure he’ll carry on
) ( his studies and extra curricular ac
: Building Bridges

a.
- Continued from page 1

  
  
 
   
 
   
      
 
   

 

. 5
'
t ‘

“e

river. In 1666 the houses were again
burned probably in the Great London
fire. Kebuilt and again destroyed
by fire they were all removed in

_ 1756, The maintenance costs were
high, about twenty thousand dollars
a year, but until 1750 this was the
’ only bridge across the Thames. That
the bridge was structurally sound
| fundamentally is atiested to by the
zi fact that it endured for six hundred
es years until replaced by the present
_ London Bridge started in 1821 and
~ completed in 1830. No doubt it was |
this old bridge that was responsible
A) for the children’s game “London

    

Ms | - Bridge is falling down”. ry

fe The resent London Bridge to|
: il which reference has been made is

one of the finest examples of high

i class stone construction. There are
a five elliptical arches, the center one
=> being 152 feet long. The entire

length is 926 feet. It was designed
by John Rennie and construction
_ under the direction of his two sons.
_ Its width was increased during the
years 1902 to 1905 by 11 feet under
the direction of Sir Benjamin Baker.
Mention only can bemade to Black| friar’s Bridge, a third bridge over
_ the Thames, built in the years 1760
| __ to 1768, of stone arches with thirteen
_ spans an dreplaced by’ a cast iron
bridge of five spans in 1865.
Hastily and inadequately some of
the work of early engineers in the
construction of bridges has been reviewed. It is doubtful if the bridges
of the present day will endure as
some of these endured over long cen
“NEW COURSE FOR 1944-'45

An announcement from the Registrar’s office states that beginning
next term, and continuing for as
many years as is humanly possible,
Professor Bronson will offer Chuckri ling I as a substitute for Physics IT.

 

   
   
 

_ Jerry Naugler’s
Orchestra
i

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

his course to the chosen profession.

‘Mount Allison Takes

  

Bw Pas as eis i a ee
i] ‘aa | . id As
“<4 f eT . ae ee
wai AT JSD
ans! te SOUP fee ei ann
i = ¥ P é Le

yagi aT =}
Aa d at?

mea

The familiar “Yell, Yell Holy Hell” is again bringing its victorious
strains over the Campus. Inter-faculty sports have been given a_ back
seat by our sport writers, so let’s review the score books. Remember
football? The Engineers copped the title by victories over Freshmen and
Arts and Science. Medicine failed to fied] a team so the silverware remained in the right place, the draughting room. Early in the New Year
the Basketball League began with easy victories over the Freshmen and
Arts and Science. The Engineers were stopped in their tracks ‘by the
Med. teameof which former Mount A. Varsity stars made up most of the
powerful line-up, The play-offs will soon be coming up and they promise
to be full of excitement, as both teams are quite sure they can win. The
Engineers’ hockey team is really burning up King’s Forum. Three successive wins against no losses shows the schedule to this date. Each game
new material is turning out and within the next few games a super team
is expected to take the ice. The Engineers are also well represented on
all Varsity teams. Just have a look at the football hockey or basketball
line-ups and see for yourself. What about other sports, tennis, ping-pong,
badmniton; everyone has an Engineer close to the top. Girls’ basketball
seems to be the only sport on the Campus in which the Engineers are not
represented.

Have you seen our ladies in action? and I do mean BASKETBALL.
Handicapped by size, they make up for it by smooth passing and deadly
shooting. Recent victories and more recent losses over Mount ‘A’ and
Acadia, showed the power of our weaker sex.
a very good job coach.

Congratulations, girls, and

The Tiger Basketball team is having a tough season. The boys are
turning in some smart games, but take a look at the names of opponents
and you can see why wins aren’t so frequent. There are some ranking
Canadian players on the different service teams in the city league. These
boys do not need much room to split the twines. Our team has plenty of
fight but experience counts.

The hockey team is fighting its way along in the college league.
After a year without a varsity team it isn’t the easiest hting to reorganize. Not having seen the team in action our comments are limited, but
according to all reports the University is well represented.

Engineer Sports Personalities

Dick Currie—‘“Blower” needs no introduction to ‘Dal’ sport fans. He
starred for two season on the Varsity football team and is one of the best
hockey players on the Campus.
ent yachtsman.

In the warmer weather Dick is an ard
Don Wilson—Don is not very active in college sports, but if the college had a rowing team ha would be tops. At the age of seventeen he
copped the harbor single shell rowing championship, which he has held for
two years. As yet he has not been defeated in competition.
a well known paddler. Sailing, skating and
other achievements.

Don is also

swimming are among his

Blair Dunlop—A freshmen this year with lots of what this college
needs, spirit. With only a couple of weeks in college he stroked his way
to runner-up in the men’s singles’ Tennis Championship. He is a member of the Varsity Basketball team and plays a first class game of badminton. Not a bad record for a Freshmen, eh!

Ken Wilson—Ken has been around in sports at ‘Dal’.
played Varsity football and Intermediate basketball.
voting most of his sports time to hockey.
tennis, badminton, swimming and

Last year he
This year he is deHe is also interested in spring
oh, but that’s not sport, is it?

Doug. Clarke—The blonde Newfie this year saw the light and changed
Doug. is manager of the hockey
team, which is a man-sized job. A former Memorial athlete, he plays a
smart game of basketball as well as hockey. He is really a sports enthusiast and gets a great kick out of Inter-faculty games, especially when his
opponents are Medicine or some of “de b’ys from de Bay.”

Inter-faculty teams:

Football Basketball Hockey
Little, C. Yeadon, D. Hagen, W.
Yeadon, D. Duff, P. Matheson, D.
Waterfield, M. Clark, D. Burgoyne, D.

Matheson, D.
Clarke, V.
Barnett, R.
Lent Smith, G.

Jeffrey, R. E.

Matheson, D.

Waterfield, M.
Barnett, R.

Little, C.
Clark, D.
Duff, P.
Burgess, A.

Duff, P. Burgess, A. Jeffrey, R. E.
Frost, D. Oakley, J. Oakley, J. |
Swain, N. Wilson, K. Smith, C.
Lantz, G. Smith, G,

Burgoyne, D.

ATTENTION, UNIVERSITY!

Our photographer from Survey
Camp offers you free of charge an
ideal illustration for your column. |
The snap consists wholly of the rear
view of a bull. '

i

Deuble Victory

Dal. co-eds and boys teams fell
prey to Mount ‘A’ Hoopsters at the |
Gym. Saturday night by scores of
24-10 and 40-28 respectively. An
unusually large turnout provided
lots of spirit which spurred on the
players. |

 

 

The Mount ‘A’ girls playing a!
“man to man defense instead of |
their usual “yore,” kept our snipers
, in cheek and piled up a 24-10 margin. The game was fast, featured
by close checking.

| In the second game, the Tigers
| stabbed an early lead, only to be|
whittled down to 17-17 by half time. |
The visitors put on the pressure in
| the second half and outscored the
| ‘Dal’ team,

   
   

.
|
|
:

. Following the games an enjoyable
dance wag held in the small gym.

r Jeeps, 4

|

Jt Les taste good in appe
‘cobac

The Pick of Tobacco

   

 
 

é : ii

3

 

‘AS WE SIGH AND GAZE—

Few girls have endeared themselves to Dalhousie as has the talented Dorothy Hamilton, in her few
months with us, she has displayed
her fine voice and striking personal
   

nr bi ‘March ch 10, 1944

 

ity at all Dal functions. How-we are
moved by her songs at the annual
frolic, the Boilermakers’ Ball! Everyone of us thanks you, Dotty;
we'll be listening and watching on
Munroe Day.

On Sunday afternoon hockey fans |
witnessed one of the greatest wupsets of the season, when Dal’s Tigers trounced King’s sailors to the
vune of 4-3. The Kingsmen, a no
mean lot of puck-chasers, had already tied the Navy seniors in one!
game, and until Sunday were un- |
beaten by any civilian team.

Early in the first period Churehill- |
Smith stick-handled through the |
Navy defense to pass to Currie, who |
marked up the first point for . Dalhousie. The battle then waged fast
and furious, the sailors trying ev- |
ery trick to get around the solid|
hips of defensemen Bob Wade and
Zen Graves, who are, incidentally
a couple of the serappiest defense |
players you'll find on any team,
making up in fast thinking and
close checking for what they lack |
in weight and stature. |

Near the end of the first period, |
forwards Lantz, Currie, and C. |
Smith elicked on a smooth passing |
play that completely fooled the jeep |
defense, and Currie whipped in the
rubber to make the score two-nothing for Dalhousie.

Both teams came out fighting in|
the second period, the navy, eager |
for revenge, and the “Dal’ boys |
equally anxious to maintain their
lead. Kings’ passes began to click
and goalie MacKinnon was forced to
prove his skill on many occasions.
After about eight shots on the ‘Dal’
net, a Kingsman sneaked the puck
into the net to make the first point |
for the navy team. Kings scored
again at the end of the period, tying |
the score and making it anybody’s
game.

 

'
|

In the last period the boys put on
an exhibition of fast skating, close
checking hockey that made many
fans say it was the best game they
had seen in the city this year.

During the opening minutes of
play a jeep batted the rubber out of
the air to chalk up a point approved
by the referee déspite the fact that
it was struck into the net
above shoulder height.
tied things up again, however, by
flashing through the Kings defense
zone in a sole rush, to outwit the |
goalie and make the score three-all.

from

I wish that a few of the cynical |
critics who say that ‘Dal’ teams!
have no fight or spirit, had seen the
next few minutes of play. Every |
man on the team fought hard, and |
fought successfully, to keep the Jeep |
men hemmed in their own territory.
The Wilson, Crowell, Flynn line at!
one point, controlled the puck around
the Jeep net for over four minutes
peppering shost from every angle.

Climaxing ten minutes of scoreless but wide open play Lantz sank
the rubber home in the dying minutes of the game, to make the final
score four-three, and win a glorious
victory for gold and black over a
team made up of stars from all over
Canada.

Highlights of the game were: The
magnificent defensework of Wade
and Graves; MacKinnon’s superb
net-minding; Currie’s sharp-shooting, and the vastly improved fight
,

 

|ing spirit of the whole team.

Goal, MacKinnon; defense: Wade,
Graves; forwards: Lantz, ChurchillSmith, Currie,-Wilson, M, MacDon
| ald, B. MacDonald, Flynn and Crow
ell.
SEES

Man is a. worm. He comes,

_squirms around a lot, and ‘hen some
hen gets him.

 

 

MARVEN’S 4 QU

Currie soon |!

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College
Offers Engineering Courses in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience

Write or eall for Calendar or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President.

We. 2

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack— crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

   

 

 

oe ; : ‘
yer)
2 7 rs ’

Say

oe
=

Su)

4+ }
a .
ex 4%
es
fe

LT A Te

$i

 

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking
Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month
SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years.

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

YOUR SUITS WILL

Look Newer
Last Longer

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY ey

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,
to keep them feeling soft and fresh to maintain
shapely, stylish lines. A good wartime practice
is: Buy fewer clothes—send what you have
to Cousins often,

°
CUBS LAUR RAS Ore aa

domurece

»1ORRGt

ww

 
