 
 

s

RE

  

 

   
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
  

_ CAMPUS
"CLIPPINGS

By EUGENE MERRY

5
. ‘

 

the sheerest chance (especially remarkable in that chances haven’t
_ been so sheer since silk became
scarce). A figure was seen riding
through the woods Campus on the
running board of a battered Mobile
Blood Clinic, swinging a frayed
Lasso and shouting “Yippee!!” in
alcoholic accents. This figure finally
succeeded in dropping the noose over
Q, Jackson Greensward bringing him
to an abrupt halt (due mostly to the
velocity of the Mobile Blood Clinic)
Greensward was identified as none
other than president of the Engineering Society.
Greensward then screamed, laughed wildly and tried to fling himself
t in-front of a passing wheelbarrow.
a Failing in the attempt at self_ destruction he was led away muttering, “Epistaxis, taxidermist, taximeter, couldn’t eater, hadta heater,
what is neater?”
qy. When confronted with a Red Cross
} card to fill out Greensward refused
to touch it, claiming the whole matter was a fraud. “There’s a number
of excellent substitutes for blood,”
If they give blood donors lemonade,
or whisky, or ginger ale, or oxo, or
what have you.” :
“Like I say,” resumed Greensward

and Laurie Allison.

a minimum.

dividually.
Margaret
manager this year.

    
 
  

 

! if they give all these things to peo, ple who have given blood, why not

give them to soldiers who have been
fs wounded?” Now all this hubub on
oy the part of Greensward was-having
fir) a noted effect on the mentality of
other students. A med student tried
to explain things and soon volun_traily joined Axegrinder (captor of
Greensward) in his straight-jacket.
“But aren’t you willing to give
something to the Red Cross?” ask«+ ed Alice Benbolt, standing trim and
| pretty in her R,I.P.P.E.D, uniform
ss Oh, yes’, smiled Greensward, and}
handed over a glass jar. ep
re ey eewnats tat a
“My appendix, my very own!” |"
__ “Oht” said Alice, and disappeared |

y

i
i

 

    
     
  
 
      

THE OLDEST COLLEGE

 

 

Dalhousie University Store i Trading Committee Hopes for Increased Student

And Profit and Loss Statement Co-operation at Next Term’s Clinics
Year Ending April 30, 1943

 

_ Net Profit on Sales
Interest Income
Net Profit transferred to Surplus

HOW THE STORE
OPERATES

The book store’s operation is supervised by a Board of Trustees consisting of three members of the
faculty, Professors Maxwell, Wamsley- and Rankin, and two student
appointed members, Eileen Phinney

It is the policy of the store to keep
overhead larger stocks of books at
For this purpose all
prospective buyers of books, after
the first few weeks of term, are requested to leave their orders with
the store so that they may be filled.

‘Since the store wishes to render
service rather than make profits, it
enables students to purchase books
more cheaply than they could in
Farquhar is student

Dal. Sinks Kings in
Badminton Tourney

A picked group of players from
Dalhousie defeated H.M.C.S. Kings
Badminton team in an exhibition
tournament Monday night in the
Dal gym. Play started at nine and
continued until eleven.

In the men’s doubles Dal won by
a slight margin, 2-1, while in the
ladies’ doubles the college players
chad four matches to Kings two.
| Dal made a clean sweep of the
| mixed events winning all six match
 

| That dentist’s daughter runs
around with the worst set in town.
* # *

Ques.; Give an example of a col
Pema EBT se) a a
eye tee Oe wes
ae oe mo J chs +s oF
= 7 ea eu ee “¢ a) + se a A
: 7 - Po Ai; f ‘ tf
: v MJ s 1 ra ei ' ‘we ‘ i} 2 :
De | Ae ay eee fd

—_——

TO

 

 

| Mary Jones, here lies her bones TRADING
’ fi For her, death had no terrors, Sales—New Books ............+.. BG er tae a UN wih & 54 y $5,289.70
Born a good girl, died a good girl, Less—Cost of Sales, New Books:
No runs, no hits, no errors. Inventory, April 30th, 1942............ $ 477.19
Se RERORI IEEE al opis 4i aw ald sie alse eiaiW a Wie aid oR es 3,975.91
| ; a fi RTE MEE RU i bd -tyeraiy 30's sale Yale ns pa 114.73
~ Lone Engineer Stages Holdout On IVMRURE MOTI PRA Cy A ¥ le de p bimelele & 219.65
Blood Drive. Refuses to Give Blood; |. —
Claims Red Cross Perpetrates Fraud; $4,787.48
Could use many substitutes. Deduct Inventory April 30th, 1948 ...... 517.77 $4,269.71
: ee 8 Gross Profit on: New Books ....... 0.05: 0sceceecceces $1,019.99
BEER IS BEST! Sales—Second Harid Books ..0... ci cacs ccc venbatacs $ 66.40
It was expected that 100% of the Less—Cdst of Sales of Second Hand Books....... 59.62
students would turn out to donate
blood, but alas there was an excep- Gross Profit on Second Hand Books ...............-. 6.78
tion, Q. Jackson Greensward by $1,026.77
name, who must be caught and PROFIT AND LOSS 7
pounded into submission, whether he|Gross Trading Profit .............60ceeececeee een ee eee eees $1,026.77
had any blood left or not after the} Deduct—Expenses:
beating was irrelevant. OMRIICR IAL al tal Geet a bo sally vives wletlly We SLIP bik FU PEO OMUO
< The plan included various traps DEP OAIP GEE NE. ES Wie 1b a. ed Sele ie ec htas 816 cieldiy ww oes 19.50 disguised as supplemental list which Telephone ahd Telegrams ..............00eseeeeeee 11.46
were posted in all the faculty offices _ Stationery, Printing and Postage ...........+...... 35.85
| for the unsuspecting quarry to sign RIP RO MEEMIAGE desc Vere be ein ayes ae Siee dawns 9.52
ne a last minute remorse. An especially GUN CE EMEREOD 9 60S 1k g) Odie c viaiaiy n'a 0 6 opin, sible wlnlayn bis § 9.52
fiendish trap was rigged in the Gill- PSP I ate Tee eee fo sls vie tie shite tess oe 10.00
housie College union office where it RRGRPeSb BG URCOSITO Bho hee ss ee eid eee crlenens 206.63
was expected that the culprit might Depreciation—Equipment ..........0ceeeees 23.16
go to look at the calendar. Sa RTEVOTICOE Do ih v 0's ow hein pea die 2, 0-0 52.01 75.17
The quarry was finally captured by
Amortization of Bond Premium ............... 5.63 573.76

 

$453.01
Caate wale ENA ly lade wie ary d atitpia 4D FO A iwigla cts 3 41.71
$494.72

ew O.F CES ae 8 6 Sr Sy

 

Flight-Sgt. Roy Cochrane and
his bride are shown here cutting
the cake during the reception held
at Pine ‘Hill following the wedding ceremony last week at
Bethany United Church, Armdale.

U.A.T.C. NOTES

The U,A.T.C. has one happy member this week in the person of Fit.
Sgt. Cochrane who was married last
Saturday afternoon to Miss Margaret
Baillie in a ceremony at Bethany
United Church, Armdale, Rev. J. D.
Archibald officiating. We all join in
wishing them both the best of everything in the years to come.

We are also able to report that
W.0.2 Irvin is now out of hospital
and we shall see him at his duties
immediately after Christmas.

| All the members of the Unit have
now been fully equipped with uniforms.

Two members of No. 2 Flight have
been appointed to the rank of acting
corporals, they are A.C.2 Ernest and

   
     
       
     
     
           
        
 
       
         
      
        
     
     
   
   
       
       
   
     
        
   

 

 

   

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 26, 1943

.

PAPER IN AMERICA

 

 

No. 8

BLOOD DONOR APPEAL

am
‘

Efficiency of Organization Demands 100 per cent Effort.

Following is a statement issued to the Gazette by Art Titus, Chairman of Dalhousie

Blood Doners Society.

“The Dalhousie Blood Donors Society has been out for blood during the past two or
three weeks. The response of the students has been quite good in the short time the Society
has been operating but not quite as good as was first anticipated. So far about 145 students
have donated and there may be a few more before the end of this term. The male students
In particular have been slow in volunteering. Exams being near, I believe, is one of the main

 

Newfies Whirl in
Lower Gym

Last Friday night a small group
of friendly aliens gathered in- the
lower gym for an old colony reunion. The red and white streamers
of Memorial College were a treat for
eyes that for years had seen red and
white on Belt Line street cars only.
The dance was conducted in the approved (by Dr. Hatcher) memorial
style with attractive programes issued at the beginning of the evening
and the couples engaging dances for
the rest of the evening. Spirits
were high without the benefit of
spirits and under varied degrees of
illumination the couples swayed, and
at least one person in each pair remembered the locker-rooms, common
rooms and corridors of M.U.C. on social nights.

Genial Peter Loder managed the
evenings proceedings in an able and
amiable manner from the hilarious
Grand March to the echoes of the
last waltz. Dr. and Mrs. Bell and
Dr. and Mrs. Dore of Forrest Campus joined in the fun in a charming
manner that endeared them to everyone present. Dr. Bell’s theorizing on
the intricacies of wurlitzers proved
highly amusing to all within range,
while Dr. Dore, apart from being
Canada’s leading expert on grasses
showed that his histronic talents do
not lag far behind. That was fun!
Two couples had to read a seript and
be judged. Both tore into it with
gusto and vim and when Dr. and
Mrs. Bell emerged with the decision
the “Osears” were awarded to Dr,
Dore and to Ruth Paton whose connections with Newfoundland are
whispered to be more than intimate.

Later*in the evening the Dance
Director took a sudden aversion to
plaid ties, girls with wrist watches
and such things, until, at last only
one offending couple was left on the
floor namely Doug Clarke and petite
Beryl Kean both of St. John’s who
were thus awarded the elimination
dance prizes.

Soon the window of Roy’s establishment flew open and cookies
and ice cream in huge volumes issued forth to soothe the throats tired
from laughter and conviviality.

Near the close of the evening
souvenir hunters mutilated the decorations especially the beautiful bewreathed “M”’s that Ruby Case had
created. Elmer Caule and Gerald
Vavasour had also added their labors
to the beautification of the lower
gym.

As the midnight hour drew on
apace the Newfoundlanders and their
guests left with mixed memories and
varied thoughts but all with one
common memory, that of a pleasant
evening.

= ae kt 6 oe

LS j 2 j
Bit AS 8 i ‘ : Pe 7 om
i i‘ .

a i i Veo Coat eae ea
L. ; meted |

reasons for this and also the fact that many students are under
the 18 year age limit. Then again, there are perhaps a few who
are afraid of the act of donating blood. I hope that these few
will have lost their fear by next term and be in readiness for
future clinics.

In regard to future clinics the Society’s committee feel that
there are many who would like to volunteer after Christmas

 

   
 
   

and they will definitely be given this opportunity for the Dal
housie Blood Donors Society is all ready planning another Dal
night during the first part of January. Those of you who are
interested please bear this in mind. Other clinics will be held
later in the second term for those who wish to give their second
donation, so lets get set for a 100% effort next term. The boys
in the Services need our blood and the bit that we can give and
never miss might save some boy’s life.

One of the chief problems this term has been organizing
the Society for the duration of the War. It is hoped that the
organization will prove efficient and with your help, save many
lives which might otherwise be lost.”

Dr. Weld, director of the Blood Donor Clinic congratulated
the Society on its well organized effort to date adding that “the
general response of Dalhousie students to the appeal for blood
donors has been very good.”

DALHOUSIE DONORS TO DATE
Wednesday, November 17

Newl, Miss Jean
Oakley, James P.
O’Connell, J . C.
Paterson, Miss Helen —
Paterson, Miss Ruth
Payzant, L. J.

Pearce, Wm. Beverly
Quigley, J. H.
Robertson, Miss J.
Roblin, Miss Marion
Rourke, Miss Joyce
Saffron, A. S.

Sarson, Miss Edwina
Saunderson, Miss Ann
Sawler, Miss Joyce
Sheppard, Miss Jessie
Smith, Fraser
Smith, George
Striling, Miss Jean
Titus, A. W.

Weir, Miss Jean
Whitehouse, Miss K.
Wilson, J. D.
Woodhouse, Miss
Yeadon, D. E.
Waterfield, M. C.

Wednesday, November 24th

Anderson, Miss Beryl Goodman, Miss Anita
Archibald, Miss Joan Gough, L. G.
Archibald Miss Kathleen Greek, Edith

Atkins, Miss Betty Green Miss Goldie
Barnett, R. A. Hagen, Wm. D.
Barry, Miss Muriel Harshman, Miss Mary
Bean, Miss Kathryn Kinley, John James
Bisset, Miss Laura Knapp, Miss Betty
Blakeney, A. E. Knight, Arthur
Bloomer, J. C. 8. Little, Carl

Burgess, Arthur Littlejohns, Miss Beth
Case, Ruby Lyttle, Miss Sheila
Chapman, Mr. Douglas MacPherson, Miss M.
Clark, Douglas S. MacDonald, D. R.
Cooper, H. R. MacDonald, Irene
Currie, R. M. MacDiarmid, Florence
David, Miss Ruth MacInnis, Joan

Day, Cecil MacKinlay, Miss Jean
Dexter, Carl MacMillan, Miss Joyce
Duff, Prescott Macklev. Miss Anne
Eld, C. F. Meachem, Miss C.
Fraser, J. D. Mingo, J. W. E.
Garrett, Miss Renee Mitchell, R. S.
Garson, Miss Freda Moxon, E. Joyce
Gillis, Miss Janet Murray, Joan

Morrison, W. R.
Morse, Miss Susan
Moulton, R. W.
Nicholson, Miss Joyce
O’Neil, T. J.
Parsons, R. A.
Pentz, D. G.
Reddin, William A.
Reeves, Miss Elizabeth
Rogers, T. N.
Seeley, Robert K.
Stevenson, L. J.
Steuermann, A.
Sutherland, D. L.
Swain, Norman
Washburn, R. E.
Webber, R. V.
Wilson, Kenneth G.
Zapvler, Harry 8.

Allen, Lloyd
Anderson, Clarence
Barry, Kevin
Bennett, Prof.
Burke, John F.
Carton, A. K.
Clancy, Miss Frances
Collins, Miss Jean
Dawe, G. A.

Etter, Miss Phyllis
Frazee, James L.
Gorham, Eville
Foohey, E.

Gray, D. A.
Harrigan, A. G.
Hart, Gordon L. 8.
Hartling, Arthur C.
Hinch, Lawrence H.
Hinch, A. T,

Johnston, Lorraine
Johnston, J. W. D.
Johnson, D. C.

Joy, G. J.

Knight, R.

Leviek, A. C.

Lewis, Miss Siriol
MacDonald, E. D. ° .
MacDonald, Miss M. L.
Maclvor, Lawrence
MacKenzie, Miss Ina
McKelvey, E. N
McKenna, John R.
MacKinnon, Kenneth
Master, Vincent A.
Matheson, D. T.
Matthews, Claude
Misener, F. J.
Moore, D. S.

 

The D.C.M. invites everybody to
sing-song, Sunday, Nov. 28, at
204 Robie Street.

Govern
Yourself ...

aa

Debate between St. Mary’s and |

King’s, Pine Hill Lecture Room, —
Monday, Nov. 29, at 8.15 pm. |
Resolved: “That Canadian radio |
should be under private ownership.” ‘4

 

 

All Band Members are asked to
meet in the lower gym at 12.15
Thursday, noon, Dec. 2. This is
not a practice.

   
        
  
 
ee

   

‘ _ a el yom
/ fe eee me et oy } cs

 
  

 ‘<— > eae Suet net a

 
  

 

it otherwis: the letter is reprinted |

Sr

 

—__—_—_—_—_—_—,, B.
January 9, 192.

  
  
 

   

ite of oT but you did not see fit to send me a copy ’till
| | bis the New Year. Then I only received

 
 

02h ‘So ee see you belly-aching about. I paid for
ec pare to which I am in your debt for 1928-’29.

—A. B.N.

January 28, 192

  

  

ea with my blunted intelligence I knew that you occupied the
position of “Business Manager” when I received your letter re-me of my indebtedness.

2) As to my change of address, I was not aware that you sent
orthy paper to any but subscribers in which case my change of
would not affect you. I subscribed to the “Gazette” from Elfros
early fall of 1927 but received no copies till 1928 when I informed
t 7 ae changed at the New Year to Battleford. I then received
te becinning Of this year I moved to Lashburn but did not sub© your paper because of the unsatisfactory service last year. I
refore not in duty bound to keep even such an August person as
‘informed of my movements. ‘You may be interested to know
very day after I had dispatched my letter in reply to your gentle
ce received (forwarded from Battleford) a copy of “The Dalhoue. .’ Pray, why the unwonted intreest all at once? One term

   
  

  

  

 
 

  

  

ape Since then I have received santtion issue.
a i | manager and strew his path with roses!

Heaven bless the

  

Ai the dying words of Goethe, “More light, O God, more light.”

Sincerely yours,
—A.B.N.

  

“ON CONVERSATION

| Vooierated logic kills me quite;

_A noisy man is always in the right—
tg twirl my thumbs, fall back into my chair,
Fix on the wainscot a distressful stare;
And when I hope his blunders all are out,
ap A ably: discreetly, ‘To be sure—no doubt!’ ”

Os | Quote in G. W. E. Russell’s “Collections and Recollections.”

  

 
 

 
 

  

  

    

The enemy has Beret us paiiaes of how
Ly be ay a ey Yet, individually, it is not in rhetoric, or
r debased speech that we are interested. We are more interest
  

    

MS We lay not stop to consider that we are interested in
to say. (How much better it would be if we did!) Such
: from mention of the weather to a diseussion on
‘not Plato has left us a genuine world-picture of Socrates.
n means | (or should mean) more to us than we usually realize,

oe held the opinion that conversation should be a very
pa rE university eae meerese wrote that association

  

  

  

 
 

< id it was free. Caden at this solu I should outline my idea
ne Conversation is a leisurely, witty, amusing, interesting,
sion, carried on by people who have some idea of what
on should. be, which admits of unlimited variety in subject
Poeene surroundings. It is “talk” at its best.
01 ud witing the wrath of the gods to say that at Dalhousie
nte rest in conversation for its own sake. Yet there is more
of truth in such a statement. We have clubs and societies,
who henge a ed granted, but concerning what subjects? We
. be ir ntelligentzia. We may talk “intelligently” on sport,
iti ‘ ees professors, and, it must-be admitted, that
ritimate topies for conversation; but for supposedly intelWw na rrow is. our field! We rarely argue on the topics of
S; or dy oni of such topics. Though they are
ira heir’s is not always the gospel! We rarely
ve, ed ce the cans eac of. spheres, the art of

  

  

  

  

  

« NG iv _ , alas a
‘ iO in * pias, i
Ni

mal
ae: re

Take vie e,

: Link tis Sean 1} ue
* d it ‘oer

ne é pe ’ ul .
eh dae es an eae rs frit

i RE WAS
ot

vt, fe wit ¢ a “half ago. Ce

‘amples of Canadian graphic art.

 

- Bathousie | 4 | Gazette.”
Poder by githe Gllege by the Sea

 

   

  

‘Founded 1869 — “The Oldest. ‘College Paper in America”

The views expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
the author; it cannot be seommned that they represent the opinion of
the Student Body.

. GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44

BGtLOF-ONIeL | feels Wg ees ow dink depen save we Avil. c's dy Ted Shields
Business. MAnawar! sa iiiine sd ds case ccc ceue MEL RTC: baa 40 Kevin Barry
News Editor ...... Te RTARAMEUE MAI ons ole igi e aN R es 6 @c'ace-e Jim McLaren
Oa Cure, LGgitore s), cc esna tare al Welders « Bob McCleave, Hileen Phinney
SORE hat: ROCA mer Riate TES GLUk ois dara slain G4 6 wad ae wais'e cia. voces Bill Pope
RAMA E UN ROMEO TY ee ialasle Divga'ats ¥ be! a eisics dis leiacs, 6 oh a dee gs Lou Collins
PHOVOGTAUMOEE 50 il vitie clon Gbicuieceblesabescdic K. Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
EPROGE TOC Is ee uta ees eee te ad, Cliag db Gvealbie Sielele ele's Laurie Smith
RaseeNes  OUNCky SONNET GS avis ain: oso 'a ini Getele WG a ave eee John Hibbetts
Reporters: Jim Campbell, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley

Bob Kimball, Betty Atkins, Marg Morrison

 

 

Why The C. U. P.?

‘-EDITOR’S NOTE: The following is an Editorial which recently appeared in the McGill Daily. As it answers many of the questions asked
about the C.U.P., we have reprinted it for your benefit.

Every now and then a story appears in The Daily preceded
by the device—CUP. Apparently there are many on the campus
who have not the faintest idea what the mystic initials stand
for or how they got there. As the Canadian University Press
is a Dominion-wide students’ organization, it may be of interest
to some to explain briefly its workings and objects.

On the analogy of the international news services, such as
Associated Press, it was decided in 1938 to establish an organization to cover all the major college campuses in Canada and
arrange for the transmission of news items to and from all the
various university papers which might be interested. This
would enable each college to keep in touch with news occurring
in any part of Canada of interest to students at other parts of
the Dominion. It also makes it possible for any one campus to
find out the reactions of students at other colleges to any event
affecting more than one university.

Thus the progress of last year’s harvesting expedition was
relayed to the home-colleges of the harvesters by the newsgatherers of the papers ‘‘on the spot.” All important news is
sent by wire from its source of origin to those college papers
which might be interested in publishing it.

To accomplish and maintain this service, CUP has no
central organization. It is composed solely of the member
papers, each of which has a CUP editor and editors to represent
CUP oe each campus and attend to all the necessary business
involve

There is however a central executive, consisting of an
annually elected President, three Regional Vice-presidents and
a Seretary-treasurer. Membership is actually vested in the
member papers themselves, but the Editors-in-Chief usually
represent their respective publications. This year the Queen’s
Journal was elected National President, in succession to The
Varsity, which had held office for the past three years.

The obstacles to the efficient operation of CUP are many.
The rapid turnover of staff on each paper, the great differences
encountered in the production of the various journals and the
extra effort involved in following events on all the Campuses

of the Dominion all combine to make the maintenance of the||

five-year-old system extremely hazardous.

Fifteen Canadian undergraduate journals are members of
the CUP. In the West there are the semi-weekly publications:
Ubyssey, Gateway (Alberta), The Sheaf (Saskatchewan )and
the Manitoban, Toronto’s Varsity, The Western Gazette, The
Silhouette of McMaster, the Queen’s Journal and the Georgian
of Sir George William’s College, besides the Daily, represent
the central region. In the Maritimes there are five weekly
papers: The Argosy of Mt. Allison, the Acadia Athenaeum, the
Brunswickan of U.N.B., the Dalhousie Gazette and the Xaverian
published at St. Francis Xavier.

The fundamental aim of the CUP, however, lies deeper
than the mere swapping of news stories of universal interest to
Canadian students. With the cooperation dnd aetive support
of every member publication it should be possible to knit together all the campuses across the Dominion, widely separated
though they are by spacial and environment. factors, in a con
certed body of student opinion.

harmony of the spheres, are never heard to speak or argue about it.
Only recently, we enjoyed, on this campus, the chance to see more exWho are those people who had anything to say while it was here, or after it had gone? Are there any who
are able to gather together and discuss the Supreme Passion, without
thinking and talking in terms current in popular romances, and the debased passion of the “movies”? How many of us dare to say anything
concerning the future of the world? Of course, it is easier and less painful, to read of the future world, in Marsh reports and Beveridge reports
and the rest, and discuss them. Then conversation becomes mere discussion and is no longer an art.

The art of conversation, for it is an art, has held a high place in the
history of the world. We think first of the Chinese, whose civilization
waved before the dawn of western civilization. Lin Yutang, a modern
Chinese, who has studied the civilizations of both Eastern and Western
worlds, has made a number of penetrating statements about the art of
conversation. In his book “The Importance of Living” he has written:
“It is clear that only in a society with leisure can the art of conversation
be produced.” We think of China at the height of her eulture, and of
eighteenth century England and France. The Chinese were wise enough
to point out the frailty of man. Li Lieveng pointed out that “those who
are wise seldom know how to talk, and those who talk are seldom wise.”
Yet the Chinese were able to reach a happy vein where conversation became an art. They realized that there were people who were too busy
for “idle talk.” Shih Noian in the preface to “All Men Are Brothers”
writes, “For such things as we talk about lie in the depths of the human
heart, and the people of the world are too busy to hear them: In another
instance Lin Yutang, who has steeped himself in the culture and tradition
of his forbears, speaks of conversation as having the leisurely style of
a familiar essay, and being marked by intimacy and nonchalance.

Thinking of the culture of the Western world, we remember how the
Greeks prized conversation. Socrates surpassed his friends in his capacity for wine and conversation and was as fresh in the morning as a new
e| blown rose. We remember the ‘salons’ of France and their gracious, if

(Continued on page three)

 

 

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

HALIFAX

ALWAYS PURE

 

  
     
     
     
    
 
   
    
     
   
    
        
     
      
 

PLAYER'S NAVY CUT CIGARETTES

      
     
 

DALHOUSIANS ...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, ‘CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

 
      
       
    
    
   
  
    

Jerry Naugler’s Writing

        
   
     

Orchestra Equipment
Good writing equipment
0 makes for better notes

    

in classes.

     
   
 

Birks have good assortments in the popular
lines—Sheaffer, Parker
and Waterman.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Halifax. N. S.

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

 
     
      
       
 
         
  

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

  
    
    
   
   
 

Four Experienced Barbers Barrington St.,

        
   
   
 

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

   

. 135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
®

 

   

 

   

 

    
 

Nova Scotia

    

 

 
   
    
 
   
 

FARMERS’ MILK

 
    
    
    
     
     
   

ALWAYS RICH

  
     
   
 

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

        
   
      
    
     
   
    
   

Balhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

        
 

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University. |
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

  
      
     
    
 

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
' Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degr
of M.A., M.Sc. . . ene
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

_ Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

   
     
         
         
    
      
        
    
   
 

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

     
     
    
    
 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

      
      

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised peeneenteal facilities for men.

         
     
    
 
     
      
  
»men who credit rate

re marsh would be just grate.

No hon or mottal man can invent
_ Will be'too high for a fire ingent._

or several years now Pine Hill has been energetically
zed” into an efficient self fire-fighting unit, mostly
ar the leadership of present President of the Student
tive, Ken Findley. This year’s head of the smokeis Blair Colborne, Sydney, but the little poem below,
» by a Dal student at the Hill, loving applies to both.
FIRE DRILL, A LA PINE HILL
ey I Some heatken ye students of hare-brained schemes
I'll show you what practicality means—
=) Which took the form of a lecture harsh
_. Delivered by the latest fire marsh. —
It wasn’t long but quite concise
_ The following records their good advice . . 
pi t

Bi
f
Va

_ Now gentlemen we are gat ered hers oe
i) With intention honourable (and rhetoric drear) I
, To imprint on your minds with exhortations
| s“* The probability of lamentations ...
You all know the building isn’t so old
It sometimes gets hot but never (oh never) too cold...
|. She’s made of a substance mixed with plaster —
| That wards off fire like alabaster,
_ However dear sirs we must (but we must)
® Be ready in case there’s a holocaust,
- So now with pride and no morp¢ ado
‘The fire marshall I give to you.
ahs. A... clap. . clap...
Wey Ab... Ah... rap...7rap...
+ Quiet please . . . please quiet.
' I know it’s inconceivable
__ But believe me it’s unbelievable,
-\ If at night you hear a ringing
You know the message it'll be bringing
(A fire alarm with a dining-hall tune
_ Will drag the laziest from his drone)
It'll ring a little longer .. . ‘and perhaps a little stronger .. .
ae | Than it does for food... food...
You'll hear it ringing loud and long
24 Jump out of bed and put something on
“ Qpen the window and hang out your head
‘Throw off the covers that lie on your bed—Around the room make a speedy glance ;
| ‘Watch out-that you stir from your sleepy trance...
Pad Feel the door and see if tis hot,
i) If tis there’s a fire, is tain’t there’s not,
pee. Open the window and close the door,
, Open the door and jump from the floor,
. Use a rope if it’s available |
Tf it’s not (your out of luck)... ;
Roll up your money and roll up your Jeans
Make haste damn quickly—depart from the scenes ...
_. And incidentally, providentially . . .
- . , . we'll soon have a fire drill...
Ma | + JOE COLLEGE.

ey iS

sonversation Se

ve i
wey
fie)

(Continued from page two)

lat times garrulous, hostesses and the cafes, where conversation was the
( rder of the ‘day. We remember the coffee-houses of England, famous.
4 as: and the coffee-house where “Lloyd’s of London” was born. We
think of Swift and Cowper and many others who enjoyed good conversati on, How much conversation and tea meant to Dr. Samuel J ohnston!
b ; yen yet we can enjoy the recorded gay chatter and witty eonversa on

f those leisurely days. Today, as Emerson said “Things are in saddle.
' ‘The factor which more than anything else, benumbs our conversational ability, is the tempo of our times. This tempo threatens to benumb
our very souls. Yutang stresses that leisure is necessary to conversation. It is my opinion that leisure is necessary to living. Thoreau, who
¥ caw much so clearly, cries of the world “It lives too fast.” He, too,
i" knew the worth of conversation. | |

F if “It may sound far-fetched, but who can say that the future of the
: wo ld does not lie in the art of conversation?

was founded just before the last
second year dental anatomy examination. It is called the Mel. Brown
Society for Quiter Librarys.

* *! *

i It has been forecast that the
rh Aes : Sterret is: quite likely to become
Prime Minister of Great Britain
i : some time within a very few years.
oO , His great platform has always been
i There was a lad called Lindsay, “God Save the King”. His imperial7m ee b oy, he grew a moustache. ism is most commendable,
And one day he became much wiser,
‘and his experience made him very |
Wsad. He smelled a centrifuge; and
ow sad a fate it was for the mous
~~. = — — — ~~

ty * * *

The night of the Pine Hill dance
~e was a car parked close by the
ge, This car was unlocked. The
ht was cold but there were
kets enough to go around. But)
m did the blankets go around? |

rers are directed to see—well,

Mey [17
| p

Van Gash “Cheer up” Martin is|

“fond of blood. That is, he|

es his own blood so much that|
to experiment on it. Now

i a! 12 ls feo thy =
“ ee a te ‘iat
RINE SA Tinga ERNE US ae
aT Sa ee Bint - ; eth of

os i)
4 % 4
, A

ae “eine Fhe
4 ry ue Pen is eh
Ff 1 :

re We : , : ;
HBS ey How much do the other faculties at college mean to the student

to acquaint his students with the nature of this course.

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack— oye S S f
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran. | ;

4 a * i) Ps '
ae ae 2-415. en ee si

ieee Oe bn Ce ae. N44
a wa eh ia eh ¥ -f *

ue
|

eg ET
rf

——— Universality _ whose course is centered and deposited in one only? What role does

science play in after-college life to the average Arts student, or
_ Commerce student, required to take only one science course during

| his studies for his Arts or Commerce degree. “Tripe” has volunteered
| to exert himself on the policies and prospects of a general educational
| course of several lectures, to fill in the necessary gaps in the educa
_ tion of each and every Dalhousie student.
THE COMPLEAT STUDENT
By “TRIPE”

In the first of these general lectures, it is the purpose of the lecturer
We will give a
basic proposition. The Arts student has gained an elementary grasp of
the basic propositions in rational thinking, as opposed to the herd, or here
come those politicians again, thinking. Yet, when he is the victim of
criminal actions, and one out of every four people will eventually be
sometime ingthe course of his life, what amount of Law is it necessary for
him to learn so that he can smite the hand that steals his pocket book
without having a counter-claim of grievous bodily harm against his claim
for attempted theft, and his assertion of his common right to protect
himself.

Or, and here is another point, how can he reasonably be expected to
conduct himself in elections. as a taxpayer, as the member of the Ecum
Secum church. choir, and the parent of children, or as a buyer of insurance. How can he know where modern medicine, and particularly as it
affects psychological disorders, will cure him, kill him, flatter him, fool
him, or humour him.

The engineering student, and how often we admire this type of
collegiate, is hapless in the grip of the law, but give him his engineering
instruments, and he can run through several counties laying down imaginary lines over which it is legally not right to trespass. But does he
know enough about Shakespeare to (not only pass English 2e) be a
social genius, or at least hold his own in evening discussions around a
bridge table.

The Lawyer, versed as he is in reasonability, and looking for the
reasonable man like Diogenes pelting through the Gtecian landscape in
diapers and with a lantern in the crook of his hand, can this Lawyer
protect himself in the vagaries of commercial enterprise. The suscepti,
bility of lawyers to being taken in is only below the doctor. \

The medical and dental doctors, versed as they are in the ills of
the body, and specialists in ear, mouth, throat, nose, and hoof diseases:
can they expect to know enough law to tell them when they can cut out a
diseased organ without the consent of their patient; and when they cannot.

PRS EL Se

The commercial student, angling for that $1 a year job (plus $20 a
day expenses), is a gold mine of monetary insight, but can he know
whether the pharmaceutical concoctions for his biliousness are dynamic
creations designed to sluice him from one end to the other something
like placer mining, or else harmless vegetable extracts with pretty colors
and deadly tastes.

The druggist has long since passed from Aunty Maggie’s Remedy
(or has he?); the lawyer believes that.legal remedy is becoming closer to
the mysterious metaphysical conception of justice (or is it: insanity is
so elastic in its possibilities as a defense): science has ceased to be a
mad and fruitless hunt for the philosopher’s stone and mysterious chemicals which would transform dust into gold (or was it ever really that
way at all, generally speaking); medicine and dentistry are becoming
specialized, and the fight against pain, disease, plague a winning one (but
in this specialization is there not danger of over emphasis on specialities:
successive doctors may haul out your teeth, pluck your eyebrows, reshape
your nose, probe your sinuses, to cufe a facial disorder, yet availing
nothing); in arts we have come to believe that nothing is permanent (but
is the purpose of arts the questioning of all ideas, or allowing the

| ordinary individual to have a healthy whack of dogma upon which to rest

and preen his vain intelligence); the commercial man is raising the dollar
sign as an emblem of democratic righteousness in a world at war (but are
we seeking “monetary” security, or are we lying about our democratic
plum-duff we say we will cut up for the piteous); the engineer has vast
possibilities in a destroyed world (but as citizen he wants to maintain
order).

Well, there are some questions. But you’re all wet if you think we’re
going to answer them. (Even if we could). Instead, we’re going to
ramble ahead, throwing some truth by the wayside, but in the main being
thoroughly unintelligent about this stuff called “college education”. Our
first article: Arts and Science—so what!

The chap with bad eyesight was
examined by: the C. O. T. ©. medico
and placed in A-1. “But my eyes
are terrible,’ he pointed out. “I: can
hardly see anything.”

“Look,” said the doctor, “we don’t
examine eyes any more — we just


: Mia If

iv
co
a Yep y

i . fe oY) : |

| fi Wife

Hj ui a WH i H if

A. \: A 8)
A ’ \ ‘i

nd;

hea

ae from

Have a Coca-Cola=

Well! Here we are chum. Only
two more weeks before exams. (Not
so loud!) Too bad some of the guys
around the drafting room still have
that far away look in their eyes.
Buck up, fellows, maybe a hockey
trip will be an excuse to see your
“blossom” at Acadia. You guys just
have to hope for a team now.

* * *

Once again the Engineers’ will
come forward with a couple of players for the team-Lantz, Wilson,
Wade, Currie, and Little, are some
of our players to keep up the name
of our society of the Studley Cam
pus.
* a *

Bob Seeley seems to be coming
into the limelight again. Wonder
why he was so excited as to Jet his
hat fall into the North West Arm?
What was he doing down there
anyway?, Could it be hes getting
“fancy” again?

ae ae *

Bill Hagen didn’t seem to mind
being publicized last week, but now
it seems that he wants the smoking
room kept a little more tidier. Too
bad, Bill. Its hard for anyone to do
anything without being seen. Especially, in the well known smoker.

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“IN OLD MONTERAY”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“HOOSIER HOLIDAY”
and

“SANTE FE SCOUTS”

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday
A HOST OF STARS IN
‘STAGE DOOR CANTEEN’

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“BLOSSOMS IN THE DUST”
and “BIG STORE”

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday

“PILOT NO... 5”
“PIERRE OF THE PLAINS”

Wednesday - Thursday
“THE YOUNGEST
PROFESSION”
“FALCON IN. DANGER”

Friday and Saturday

“BATAAN”
“JITTERBUG”

Sai ater CTL sae sia mere ar
Hi Em i INEPT REC NTT a
Sal aera Ty ij =

Beet MUM GL | NB
Wt 2 eS via eae ,
UNS 9 Aaa eee Ta
LN ot aR

iff HA oe

3 Sha? AS

—

Ra

dee to Hamilton

: Gin
‘i it
silat hy Hi

ft

(ne Nee ae Sas

It has been said, Smitty, that
“women are the downfall of men”
(Quote—F’.R.M.) It would be wise
to see to it that the bus trip to
Prince’s Lodge is’ not repeated more
than once a week.

The trip to the shipyards was a
very successful trip, enjoyed by everyone, walking, or maybe loping
around, gazing everywhere, with
their mouths haging open, and wondering who they were going to trip
over next.

It seems the boys were too much
interested with what was going on
around them, and forgot about Gilbert’s suggestions to have the Horizontal Club members organized up
there.

Yes, lots of nice looking women
up there, arent there gang? (Am
I kidding?) See Currie for introductions.

ASK:

“Gildersleeve” Gilbert why he is
planning to take a number of barrels of whitewash back home with
him. Science is a wonderful thing.

Capitol

Monday - [fuesday - Wednesday
“Behind the
Rising Sun”
*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

FRED ASTAIRE
JOAN LESLIE

ee oe

“The Sky is
The Limit”

CASINO

Held Over
*

DEANNA _
DURBIN

aL ages

“RER’S TO HOLD”
*

Shows at 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9

Here's tae us

Ml er. | a

— == —— Tait
I
mat i
ttt WN e

Wifes
at He | v

hh) |

a i is

—_—
—

bey (els ED

Ba.

mHon Ppunsy

se =

Here’s tae us is a favorite toast of the Scotsman. Have
a “Coke”, replies the Canadian fighting man and a new
friendship is sealed. Around the globe Coca-Cola stands
for the pause that refreshes —has become the symbol of
the friendly-minded.

' The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

$s a very great mystery i BINT Ye ty
classmates, for all of them

rp ; 29 Fi
Hai - a7 It’s natural foe po ie panes
ee aS a

ul ,
gee) Coca-Cola called,‘ Coke.’
¥ at Yr } + .
Si iikeetarst eh ¢ Po] Sek nets path
Me a ya has ny Oe. vay thir eee
Yee PR RS Ter gy ein Ge) aks j i
ie ea a} ey ' iy ve iat aL s, : P| \e
ed) ork ) ape witg
sith ae ta Ca hie Ve * pbs hi 3). | é
/ wiaite 4, Pee eae) ls ADD, / Le i mh rea "es Nenhe, cae a Seat? I ti 10
Jk , A nr a ‘| aie ¥ bt ae bs 1 fel i se ig STH . be } Bs | Pa b. eh a (eS TASTY. . oT
i fie : ‘ i Re ee A" a. Yt OL Bas Ni Tae oy eo oy
ary A ae ae . oe iy sa pe S hele’ iki

‘ Z - Rit a om ea) '

>
: | .
aa .

 
   

   
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
    
   
  
   
    
    
    
     
    
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
       
   
     
   
   
       
    

i in the » balance.

iTigty be

ve es.
ix

before coming to Dal.

J . a
a at “

By Mee cold night, three years ago,
a hotly-contested basketball match
Was being staged in thé truculent
town: of Glace Bay. In the closing
_ minutes of play the game was still
One side went
ahead and then the other tied it up.

; hee enthusiasm on the floor spread
» to the gallery and the crowd was

‘noisy, excited, tense. Finally with
only ten seconds remaining a pen-alty shot was awarded, and at this

_ moment up strode our hero of this

week’s column to sink the foul shot
‘which put the game “in the bag”
and brought the Maritime interscho-lastie basketball championship to
Halifax.

In case anybody is still wonder
ing who the above-mentioned play
er is we present Mackie Campbell,
one of the best known sport personalities on the Dal. campus.

Mackie is a thorough Haligonian
ae ies lived all his life in the city
eA having attended such schools as
Morris St., H.C.A., and ‘Bloomfield,
At H.C.A.
Mac” was on the swimming team

that won the Maritime interscholas-'

tic meet at Acadia in 1940. In the
40-yard breast stroke he shattered
the tank record, and the following
year he broke his record in the same
event.

While in ‘High School aaah
also took part in the City High
School swimming meets and won

* ‘the breast stroke on three success
sive years, setting a new record in
his last year. It was at H.C.A.
that this fine athlete played on the
basketball team that defeated Yar
3 B35 -mouth and New Glasgow before going on to play the exciting match

in Glace Bay for the Maritime title,
in which game he scored the win“ning point to give his team victory.
An enthusiasm for camping has
taken “Mackie” to Big Cove eight
times, as well as once to Sherwood
Forest Camp in Northern Ontario.
Among other things he has been
Swimming instructor at Y Camp.

In 1941 he played for the Dal.

_ Grads in the city senior basketball
league. Also he was a member of

the locally famous Y Aquabats who
were Maritime senior swimming
champions for three years.

_ Since coming to Dal. “Mac” has |
played a prominent part in the or-| it has been in the past.
‘

Now Showing

| FALL AND WINTER
Be MEN'S SUITS AND
FURNISHINGS

 

 

were of no avail.

asil Winters |

LIMITED

383 BARRINGTON STREET

®

that have ever witnessed a contest
at Studley. C. O. T. C. parade all
afternoon, was probably the best
reason, but there was little interest
in the game, which was definitely an
anti-climax after the Acadia trip.

‘In the first half of the Senior
game Dalhousie got the ball over the
score line but the count was not
allowed.

The second half saw Goldman go
over for Mt. A. on a pass from
LePage. They made the convert and
though the Tigers threatened to
score several’ times after this, the
game ended with Mt. A. the victors
5-0.

During the game both Wade and
Currie made some nice runs but they
The chief point
noticed during the game was the

Smooth play of the Mt. A. line in

comparison to the ragged plays of
Dal,

We contemplated giving an account of the Intermediate game, but
it would save time to simply give
the opposing team’s lineup,—most of
them scored a try anyway. Debert
sent down a team which could probably have put the boots to the
Senior team. The score was 25-0
(and not for Dalhousie).

Dalhousie Tigers—Anderson, Epstein, Wood, Allen, Jardine, Hagen,
Marshall, Henderson, Carten, Currie,
Flynn, Hart, Farquhar, Barry, Wade,
Mclvor.

Mount Allison — Lesseur, Estabrooks, Kerr, Goldman, LePage, Peacock, Chalmers, Leard, Cameron,
Carroll, Dodson, Mooland, Vair,
Larley, McLennan, Durant, Hunter,
Cohen.

‘Dail Intermediates—Grant, Swain,
McKelvie, Dunlop, McKenna, MacDonald, MacKenzie, Flynn, Ruse,
Bell, Butterfield Smith.

Debert R.A.F.—Sulsh, Devlin, Cox,
Davies, Brooks, Kuschut, Colledge,
Morrison, Battersby, Garrett, Armitage, Jones, Black, Price.

 

ganization of college sports. In his
sophomore year he became secretary of the D.A.A.C., and this year
he has been elected vice-president
of this important athletic club.

“Mackie” has a deadly shot in his
favorite sport, basketball. He is a
real stylist in the hoop game, and
here we might mention that his
technique is not .so bad in other
places, for only last year he sent
fluttering the heart of one of our
lovely English friends during her
brief sojourn in Nova Scotia.

For the past two years Campbell
has lent a helping hand in the organization of the basketball team.
This year he is basketball manager
and With his important position in
the D.A.A.C. his assistance to the
team will be most valuable, just as

_ Last Saturday’s exhibition game
between Dalhousie and Mt. Allison
| football squads took place before one
of the smallest groups of people

by BILL POPE

During the past week criticism
has reached this corner complaining

that certain sports have been given
too much notice while others have
been overlooked. Although we
have our favorites, like almost everybody else, it is our intention to

givevas true a picture of sports on
the campus as possible. In a democracy, free speech and free press
are prevalent and anyone is free to
criticize existing conditions. In fact
this column favors constructive criticism.

Besides being aisle commentator
and sports raconteur we would like
this year to lend a hand to any college sport struggling under wartime conditions. Military training,
wartime transportation, and scarcity of materials have made participation in sports more difficult. The
present war has struck a hard blow
at many games; some it has knocked completely out of the picture, but
others continue to gamely carry on.
When things go wrong, when coeperation is lacking, and when at
every corner stumbling blocks seem
to protrude—that is the time when
one has to fight hardest. College
sport has suffered some sharp blows
but it has not entirely been rubbed
out. It is our desire this year to
give assistance, through the press,
to any» worthy game that is finding
difficulty in organizing or in carrying out a planned schedule.

Dalhousie Tigers suffered a defeat
last Saturday from Mt. Allison. It
is not the defeat itself that we wish
to talk about, but the way in which
the game was lost. For the first
half play was even and the perfod
ended without any scoring. At half
time, however, one of the Dal. players calmly left the field, went into
the locker room, and a short time
later cooly sauntered off to pee?
football game. The “Tigers,” weakened by the loss of this player,
were scored on in the second half

and went down to defeat. For sev
   
   
      
     
      
  
   
     
      
 
   

i STRONG POINTS

THAT STAND UP
WHEN YOU
BEAR DOWN

  

[) NON-CRUMBLING
| LEADS THAT TAKE A
PERFECT POINT
EVERY TIME

Le SB REN AEE SS ORES LER SET Cah T OER gee ey anitey ses Saintes 4
AGRO A ESE TE See SRM A Reina cceMancoe me

  

INSOLUBLE
MARKS THAT DON'T
RUN OR SMEAR
UNDER WATER

   

DURABILITY
VER 4000
CHECK MARKS
FROM O

J POINT

  

“CHEMI- SEALED’

(SUPER BONDED!

 

Say

forward
Clark-Ruse early in Peeier ).  RRase eunly it Jantary, Ta6e 1944,

eral years now there has been the
ery, “What is wrong with the college spirit?” Perhaps it should be
changed to “What is wrong with
the spirit of the people who go to
the college?” Any person who is going to leave the game at half time
should not take part in the contest
at all.. True, it was only an exhibition game and not a very important
game at that. However, there is
too much complacency among the
players and not enough discipline.

Imagine a military maneouver
in which a small, unimportant village is
through the attack, with the fighting at a standstill, the Commander
sends for his star lieutenant, only
to be told that the lieutenant has
gone back up the line to witness an
interesting cockfight. Ridiculous!
Yes, but in some ways an analogous
incident has occurred in Halifax
with only an eyebrow being raised
here and there.

The morale of a team or any
group ‘of men is a very important
matter. One of Maor Hogan's defseca of the term “esprit de
corps” was to have pride in your
own regiment, and if anyone said
anything detrimental about the
regiment you should not wait to see
if the person had glasses on but
quickly smash him in the teeth.

We are not suggesting that the
Major’s definition’ be carried out
fully, but there are times when people should get indignant. There are
times when a little discipline would
do a lot of good. To produce a
winning team the players must
work together, and each player
must have confidence that his teammates are all giving their utmost to
the game. Too often it has been
proved that when one or two players lag behind a team’s chances for
championship play is ruined.

Changing the subject it is refreshing to know that Dal. swimming enthusiasts have finally decided to organize. Many good swimmers are around the campus and

St. F. X.
Chops Axemen

St. F. X. retained the Nova Scotia intercollegiate rugby title by
turning back Acadia Axemen 9-3, in
a sudden death match played at the
T.A.A.C, grounds in Truro. The
Acadians who were anxious to have
this match played took on more
than they could handle, and spoiled
their undefeated record for the season as well as going down to defeat at the hands of a smoother,
faster, and better all round team.

Femmes Take Win

Over Clark-Ruse

On Wednesday evening the Dalhousie co-ed. table tennis team
played their second game and scored
their second victory, this time
against the Clark-Ruse Aircraft
players.

Pat Hollis and Ann Saunderson,
our two leading stars, disposed of
several male players in quick succession. They were ably supported
by Mary Stirling and Constance
Archibald, who scored four wins in
five games from the Clark-Ruse
lady players. } The team is looking
to another game with

Ta ae

PT wide

‘
$-1

A good slogan in war or peace:
We urge it for your protection that you may

Sure’’..

 

“Say Schwartz and be

be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking

Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House

Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

ete

MERE PN A Hap ee

being taken.—Half-way |

ee gmt

 

waeeas. THEN TURN out!

——
IKI
saad

ra

   
  

OS

 

a

Basketball practices started for the season on Monday. The
turnout was good, especially among newcomers and newcomers.
Although Dal has lost several players from last year, none of

own in the league.

Dal. should hold her own in any
swimming meet. This week a
hockey budget has been passed by
the D.A.A.C; and now goes before

the Students’ Council for approval. |

 

these will be missed to any extent and the ranks will be filled
with young, fresh, vigorous material capable of holding their

It is hoped that the budget will ‘be
approved and that Dal. hockeyists

will once again “take the ice” and
carry the black and gold to new victories. |

WITH YOUR FIRST PAY CHEQUE

you can blue-print your future! ,

Soon you will have your first
pay chequein your hand. You
have already decided how
most of it will be spent—on
board and lodging, clothes,
entertainment, a few dollars
for something you’ve been
wanting.

These are things of the
present. But the most important part of the present is
the part that gives you a hold
on the future.

Your savings provide that
hold. Lifeinsurance helps you
to save regularly. Anda policy
now Can assure you an independent income in middle
life. The earlier you insure,
the lower the rates will be. |

*

The Mutual Life’s free booklet,
“The Years Ahead,” explains in
detail the importance of life insurance to you, now and in the
future. Write today for your free

*% *#

THE

  

MUTUAL

OF CANADA

 

copy.
LIFE |

Established 1869
Head Office - Waterloo, Canada

INSURANCE IN FORCE

 

OVER $638,000,000

: VENEER EHD ne ‘
/ 5
} EATO N S :
si
ge
y a * a
Ni A Wide Selection of fs
we
*¥ MEN’S NECKWEAR |
oy ‘=
= —Always A Popular a
ty Choice With Many
hy Gift Shoppers !—
hy jE you’re shopping for neck- 7
hy wear this year be sure to
Ve see EATON’S selection of
WP attractive ties now on dis=) play in the Men’s Wear De=) partment on the Main Floor.
. There are ties galore—in
uN patterns and colors to’ suit
Ni practically all tastes. Check
X off several of the names on
Mf your gift list by choosing
=) neckwear—at EATON’S!
a.
Each to
a 50c * 2.00
|
a EATON’S Men’s Wear Department—Main Floor
ws)
a
y #T. EATON CS
ay RITIMES LIMITED
a)
ANE AE LTE ELE LEED RE AEND APLENAE RTEGDGB

A Pe te eee

 

 

 
  
    

 

=
