   
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
    
    
  
 
  
   
       
   
   
     
  
     
   
  

| Meior Hexen

tie would tell what new

| ie old. 
i ie eh Make RE. Faulkner has had

‘wn commerce scat Eitagh, He
a B.A. man from Acadia. Major
Paulkner i is known to many students
_ who attended camp last year where
i he was chief instructor.
‘UPSTAIRS: Major R. V. Hogan
has caused more comment around
- the campus in his years here than

 
 
   
  

. was een cdots Bifection ok’ iss
dlood and thunder is a moot ques_ tion; those who met him more per
it keeping his word and ploughing
ahead in stormy weather and ada verse criticism.

Ae many it seemed as if the Major

Major Faulkner Succeeds

sonally knew him as a true Irishman

Cah aie ae
Pe” er

rer iP

 

    
   

TURN OUT
SATURDAY, 3 p.m.

 

Has New Post

changes were meant, but what

ever officialdom said or did not say, Major R. V. Hogan, Chief
- Instructor for Dalhousie-Kings O.T.C. for over three years, was
being moved upstairs to a more prominent position at Altantic
Command, while Major R. E. Faulkner was succeeding him as
~ Chief Instructor in training capacity only. Major Faulkner
; es, has the post with Tech and St. Mary’s Units.

Ct MM. ies has been appointed Ponanandeny Officer of the Unit
_ succeeding Lieut-Colonel C. B. Smith. The old order has become
partially a new order, but the new order is a palimpsest of

the most efficient. organizations in
-, Eastern Canada. Two -years ago
students with conflicting timetable
and C.O.T.C. drill took O.T.C. drill.
Last year some hard working Meds
took time out from shouldering arms
to study; were nearly kicked into
Active Service, caused more row and
behind the scenes excitement than
most officials on the campus would
like acknowledge, must less like to
think could happen.

Wherever he goes, and the nearer
to more active service he can get,
Major Hogan will want to be back
on active warfronts. To many who
like (or disliked) his direct approach
to ‘any problem this seemed the
place to be. He fought his way
through the ranks in the last war,
was several times wounded, scattered grenades at the Huns as liberally
as a well-wisher at a wedding throwing confetti, was once buried up to
his neck in mud and nearly given up
for dead.

y HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 22, 1943

——

 

No. 3

 

Stormy Scenes

As “Weaker Sex” Takes Over

_ The second sitting of the fall term
of the Supreme Moot Court of Dalhousie was held in the Moot Court
room of Dalhousie Law School on

Wednesday afternoon, October 20th.
before Lord Chief Justice Charles
O’Connell and Lords Mary Kinley
and Lorraine Johnson. The case on
appeal was Botch and Baldey v. The
Blueberry Special Railway Co.
Counsel for the appellant was that
eminent legalist William Proudfoot,
K.C., and with him were Martin and
Butler. William Reddin, K.C., eminent barrister and scientist, acted
for the respondent; he was supported (to some extent) by MecColough
and McDonald.

Proudfoot ably argued his client’s
case. His brilliant oratory augmented by an abundance of good
spirits and his excellent Latin—Mr.
Proudfoot is a keen student of the
classics — deeply impressed Their
Lordships. The case concerned injuries suffered by his client which
were caused by an improperly braced
balustrade, and Mr. Proudfoot’s
knowledge, gained by personal long
experience, of the advantage of a
few stiff bracers, was of incalculable
value to his client’s case. Mr. Reddin brilliantly presented his client’s
case. Being an able physicist, his
expert knowledge of the technical
points involved was of great help
to their Lordships. Judgment was
handed down in favor of the appellants, Lord Chief Justice O’Connell
dissenting.

A novel situation in the annals of
the Supreme Moot Court of Dal
 

 

In Moot Court Dal Takes Air At M. I. D. L.

Conference At St. F. X.

“Debating should be given a higher place in the scale of
values in college activities. There is one principal in all postwar plans—an international machinery for settling differences
between nations peaceably. This machinery will use the instrument of intelligent and judicious debate to reach its decisions.
There is no better training than intercollegiate debating.”
These were words used in an address of welcome by Father
Kane, of St. Francis Xavier, to delegates at the annual Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League convention at St. F. X,
last Wednesday.

Eight Maritime Colleges, Acadia, Dalhousie, Mount Allison.
King’s, St. Thomas, St. Mary’s, St. Francis Xavier, and the
University of New Brunswick were represented at the conference. A number of important changes were made in the
M.1.D.L. constitution, and the league schedule for the year was
drawn up. .

A big feature of the convention was the radio forum over
Station CJFX Wednesday evening on the question of State
Hospitalization. Scott Gordon, Sodales representative, was the
first speaker and supported the establishment of such a system.
Other speakers were from Acadia, St. Mary’s and Mt. A.

Unfortunately, CJFX is not well received in Halifax, and
many Dalhousie listeners were disappointed in not being able to
hear Gordon’s speech, which was warmly commended by the
St. F. X. faculty and students.

Delegates were royally treated, with a special dinner at the
local hotel, with addresses by Father Kane and Clyde Nunn,
station manager of CJFX, a tour of the university and radio
station, and a large dance, including dates from nearby Mt. St.
Bernard, after the radio br oadcast.

Delegates representing colleges at the convention were:
Acadia, Willis Hall; St. Mary’s R. Power; St. F. J., T. A. Kerr;
St. Thomas,

presented by numerous breaches of
Courtroom decorum by certain of the
junior counsel and a number of the
spectators. The insolence and impertinence of Butler and McColough
in their opening speeches to the
Bench was probably without precedent and can only be attributed to
ignorance. Much to their deep sorrow Their Lordships found it necessary to impose a fine on these two
members of the Bar. The Courtroom was pervaded with an atmosphere of profound suspence when
Their Lordships called upon Lord
Chief Justice Lawrence, an interested witness of the proceedings, to
read a note in shorthand, signed by
Mr. Sheffman, which had. reached
the hands of Sherriff McIvor. This
note contained very degrading remarks concerning Their Lordships.
Again it was with the deepest regrets that Their Lordships found it
necessary to impose a stiff penalty
upon the accused, who had a previous record.

Mr. Martin and Mr. McDonald also
made panegyrics to the Bench. Mr.
McDonald, a former class-mate of
Lord Chief Justice O’Connell, touched briefly on some incidents of His
Lordships’ younger days. There
was a slight suggestion that His
Lordship was not then the sedate
and sober scholar of today.

The final sittings of the Fall B. Losier, F, LeBlanc ; UN .B., N. Carter ; Dal,
Term will be held on Wednesday, Scott Gordon; King’s, T. Shields; Mt. A., D. Anderson.

October 27, before Their Lordships

Vaughan. Melvor and Parsons. canis Bees feu | i

Council Dance, Rally

 

 

thought there was only one faculty
fei n the campus, and that military.
Certa inly the C.O,T.C. never has
“never. taken a back seat to anyone;
under ~ Hogan’s organization the
ue Eps spruced up and became one of

   
    
 
 

“They didn’t cover you omnes
enough”, one cadet once told the
Major. His Irish face lit up. He
likes esprit de corps.

  
   
   
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  

either in third or fourth years, and
all medical students taking the accelerated. course. This will mean
that Engineering and Science students take one hour a week during
school year, and the usual two weeks
at camp.

~ CAMPUS
CLIPPINGS

By EUGENE MERRY

 

 

JUST JOKES?
A young lady went into the drug
|store. “Have you any Lifebuoy,” she
asked.
“Set the pace,_ lady,” said the
young drug clerk; “set the pace.”

_ Well, after three Weeks of ‘initia- |
th aa which has caused amany fresh
Pr or oo have
id oe ine yt all pe and

 

A deaf woman entered a church
|with an ear-trumpet. Soon after
she had seated herself, an usher
tiptoes over and whispered, “One
toot and you're out.’”

 

A bishop attended a banquet and
|a clumsy waiter dropped a plate of
hot soup on his lap. The clergyman

be »| Slanced around with a look of agony

he : | and exclaimed:

housie arose in the presence of two
members of the weaker sex on the
Bench. Their Lordships Johnson and
Kinley proved once and for all that
at times beauty can be combined
with brains. Their sagacity and
wisdom may be said to be almost

Erratum: In last week’s report
there should be interchanged in the
last paragraph “respondent” for
“appellant” and vice versa in the
judges’ decisions. The Gazette is
sorry it has inconvenienced third
year brains, also states that it is
comparable with that of men. usually the custom in other courts

A darker and very lamentable|not to stop a reporter in the midst
side of the afternoon’s sittings was of taking notes.

 

Forecast Fireworks Fizzle

MacKinnon In By Acclamation

The great fireworks expected at the Students’ Forum, held
in the Chem Theatre Thursday noon, did not come off. The
meeting did not get under way until all the Meds and Dents
finished staggering in, and indeed, their mere weight in numbers took Studley down a peg, including the Grecian-minded
Engineers.

The Studley students, obviously overawed by the concerted
might of the Meds and Dents, then gave way, and, with Forrest, gave their one hundred per cent approval for the action of
the Students’ Council to appoint Ken MacKinnon as new president, following the resignation of Tom Patterson.

Draws Good Crowd

The year’s first big hop, the Stu
dent Council Dance, went over in a

large way last Friday night, with an

attendance surpassed by few of last

year’s rug-cutting sessions... “The
night was filled with music” of the
burning brasses and drifting strings
of Don Low’s musical aggregation,
sweet, hot, and very danceable.
Chairman of the dance committee
was veteran Bill Hagen, than whom
there is none abler in getting a
Friday night cut-up really under
way. The Pep Rally in the middle
of the evening .needs no further
testimony to its success than the
way in which Dal tonsils really let
go the next day, from the opening
whistle to the closing of the game.

Noted by Dalhousians of three or
four years standing was the large
number of new faces, as frosh and
grads from other colleges taking Dal
professional courses turned out en
masse. A smattering of old friends
in new uniforms was also evident.
Our special correspondent Mr. Atwood, reports the run on the Coke
Bar as “unprecedented”.

Govern Yourself
Accordingly

The Student Christian Movement
will hold a discussion #onference on
Studley Campus this weenkend. Discussion will be lead by the Rev.
Gerald Hutchinson, National Secretary of the S.C.M. for Canada.

The conference will start at 7.30
p.m. in the Murray Homestead. It
will continue at 3.380 p.m. Sunday.
Tea will be served and discussion
will go on into the evening, finishing with a service of worship.

Anyone interested in attending,
please get. in touch with Blair Colborne, Pine Hill — 3-8576 or with
Joan Archibald—2-2824.

* as *

The Freshie-Soph hop, ending the
initiation period, will be held tonight in the Gym. All Frosh must
attend and wear regalia, and will
be admitted free. Dancing is from
8.30 to 12 o’clock.

 

One Soldier to Another:

“How is a Japanese soldier like a
girdle?”

   
 
 
   
   

+ a4 a

 

G ILL DAILY SAYS: LESS

Ta I cannot hear ‘tat yon]

| something appropriate. o

=A

 

fWomes. are a funny race;
| They curl their hair and paint their
faces. —

This action of the student

election in the near future, which, if called, would cause unwarranted work and bother to all concerned, especially the. hard
working Meds.

First Open House at
Hall Well Attended

Delta Gamma began its social

body clears up all fear of an Other Soldier: “I don’t know, sir.”

First Soldier: “They both sliv up
on you and it takes a Yank to get
them down.”

—The Plainsman.

coy a FOR SOME ~

A ecu int the} ‘They change their styles so often
! that | a |

<< 1

 
  
   

  

on oar Lat sleep | al ain., dance all p.m.

This meek and dull meeting was a far cry from those of
the old days, when a Student Forum meant a real battle worth
attending. Except for a few questions from Allen Blakeney,
further quizzing from Laura MacKenzie and a mere whisper

activities last Saturday night, with
a very informal party at Shirreff
Hall. A large number attended and
spent an unusually enjoyable evening. Dancing began around eight
o’clock, the music was supplied by

*x* *

Little Bits of Nothing.

   
 
 

Go to to eae, but never | see ’em.

| from Barbara White, discussion from the floor was eeorey

Sat) byt iets

oe

Fi

Two Arts and Science by-elections will be necessary soon
> fill the duo of \ aes ae eve for that scene

a: _ ee Se ee

Drunk: Shay, can you tell where
the other side of the street is?

Cop: Why, of course; it’s over
here.

Drunk: That’s funny. Fellow over
petenteaentt. were see there said it was over here.

records and P. Payzant’s amplifier.
During the evening a sing-song was
held, for which Doug Roy, ex-Mt. A.
musical impresario, rattled the
ivories.

ina

i sea 4
ah at
=) %

», Na eal ‘ * es a os iL a ca |

 

TT 7 . pe
as pa i i r* : ‘ =
Y . = a me * es = !
fo . ¢ 7 ‘ *
je as So . 5 SS se

;
:
}

 
   
   
 
  
   

oF wi =

; md
it oe
oe egte

fs Jie

| wo 4 ee a
Lo ee 724 . ij z

F oP x
th ve Mii ‘ , *
eat eo ee tel od
a4 A ae

  
      
 

i

 
   
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
   
     
 
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
    

oNsi¢ 4 Gasett i

Founded 1869— “The Oldest College Paper in America”
hor: it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of

aise aiiaie 6 alae ae eta count Marshallese OS 4) < % Ted Shields

oh aia 8 le at ac Gee Ate Nie celonys caiy tine Se GVIR: | DAITY

POR eee ee aia an Cee nian oe baie ee 88/8 Jim MacLaren

re FE NS ieee dhs, bi Ne a Bob MecCleave, Eileen Phinney
EE ee Ciyigi ale at hitie 43 eas ee Mauer th Bill Pope
een MIE 1 y's d oes vee eeese ve urea pe Outs oiye eas Lou Collins
eraphers...... SVR s icky, Jae igneous ~.K. Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
tne ere. Ss 3)e'= so UP ne cee lcs ais aise t Laurie Smith

vorters: Jim Campbeil, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Eileen Phinney
bia Peter Donkin, Jack Quigley, Bob Kimball, Betty Atkins

Marg Morrison

--s«-WHERE ARE THE VERDANT FRESHMEN?

ormal initiation at an end.

tudley in recent years.

en yurned itself out. Another such
thusiasm might well extinguish it for good.

Be es |
ea
ret,

rake.

oe 2
4 a,
We:

tion are legion.

ay AS
Pe.

, SIRE BS a
at os Sa co fale
n

ihe and developed to its full potentiality!

ae
eI 7,
> PT}
Sion irs

_ ee

STRANGER THAN FICTION

| _ frgm England the story of such a life is told:

age today—he was only 45.

quickly to and fro.

Pi

' two weeks ago to his lab where we were to work together on hi sfirst
project and it was then I found that not all the effects of bursting bombs
had been on glass and brick and plaster:—his mind had suffered, too. The
. _levgshard, sleepless nights had aged him, and his hair—always a dusty

a). -gray—had turned a lighter shade.

te *

aw.

a :
1) >eeao 2s. j .— way out. :
i =~ bik ; 1
J

Ye Two days ago I walked with him down the steps of his air-raid shetler
p —a shelter which was the result of thousands of hours of labour by many
ait _ different men. It was of unheard of size and depth, with a shaft of un
,

Pi wi ees
a, hy

i
ri. Pa!
a)

Hee

a) + @
- a C®
A =f

hide
age

  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

  
 

” moved i.

a
Pa .

      
  
 
 
  
 

ot a MER
ee eta timers A

a .
j eae etl Be

3 Friday night, at the Freshie-Soph Dance, the Class of ’47
will doff their placards and bows, roll down their pant legs, and
onsider themselves members of Dalhousie University, their

Congratulations are due, and overdue, the Initiation Com_ mittee who have this year, faced with one of Dal’s largest
‘artime freshman enrolments, staged probably the most suc1 initiation seniors and post-grads have witnessed on

__-In the Roaring Twenties, Dal initiations overflowed through

the length and breadth of the city, from the professors’ homes
_ to the theatre lobbies. As initiations ebbed, so did that elusive
- etcoplasm whispered of as ‘Dal spirit”. We are not advocating
_ any return to the overabundant exuberance of ten and fifteen
years ago. The flame of Dal spirit was fanned until it all but
unlimited release of en
ist ‘What we are in favor of, and hope to see established, is a
thorough and well-enforced initiation on our own campus,
supported by all upperclassmen. The results of such an initiafi The new men and women are made conscious

_ of themselves as an entity, and of the University’s recognition
of them as such. The realization of themselves as a part of

ee es eee es ee
bal hy , ~ LOM heel Pl Weta TP ,
si,

iy Ta if — ‘ 4, f tit

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

strange new world; I still remember the scent of roses coming from the

vase of rose and fern which rested on the table. In over three long years

of war I felt I had seen no gayer, lovelier place.
Soon, however, I was conscious that he was looking at me—he wanted

my opinion, of course. ,
“Do you think, Sir Ronald,” I asked, “that one cah run away from
his destiny ?” *

“Of course not,” he replied, “but one doesn’t know his destiny. Air
raid shelters are essential— they cut London’s casualties 80%.”

Two weeks of working together had made us close friends. We always
spoke frankly to each other. |

“You bring to mind, Sir Ronald, a story which my nurse used to ‘tell
me at times when I was difficult to put ta sleep. Do you care to hear it?
It’ll only take a minute.”

He smiled: “Carry on.”

“‘Onee upon a time, in some Hastern town a servant came to his
master and said: Master, I have served you faithfully all my life, let me
leave you now. This morning as I was passing through the market place,
I saw the Angel of Death and she beckoned to me. Please, Master, let me
go away to the town of Samara, because if I stay here the Angel of Death
will take me.’

“ ‘Well,’ said the Master, ‘you have served me faithfully, as you say,
and rather than that death should catch you, take a fast camel and some
money and go to Samara and good luck to you.’

“The servant went away that same hour. But later in the day the
master, crossing the square saw the Angel of Death, too, and he said to
her: “O Dark One, why did you beckon to my servant this morning?”
The Angel of Death replied: ‘Beckon? I did not beckon your servant. I
made a gesture of surprise at seeing him in this place—for behold, I
have an appointment with him in Samara this afternoon!”

Sir Ronald clasped his hands: ‘Fine, fine,” he said; and we climbed
the winding steps: “You must tell us a few like that tonight. I’m having
a bit of a party here—something to eat, you know—and all that!”

A eall from the lab kept me from Sir Ronald’s party, but now fortyeight hours later, I have come from his bedside. It had been a gay evening with musie and guests and—a lot of fun. There were oysters too,—
he loved oysters. But in one of them, the doctor thinks, a germ was waiting. Even as I write, the BBC news is coming in:—‘We regret to report
the death of Sir Ronald Forbes at his home in.. .”

WILK.

 

ON LITERATURE

imprint of sincere effort. College
students, as such, must have at least
a nodding acquaintance with the
forms of literature. This column is
always open to those who give evidence of a sincere effort at literary
expression. We offer the suggestion

Few of us care to read a dictionary. Dictionaries are to most of us,
dry and formal colfections of words
arranged in a certain systematic
order. The breath and vital warmth
of Life is not in them. We find in
the most authoritative of English

 

Dalhousie is the first and greatest step in fostering a spirit of

_ fierce loyalty to their Alma Mater.
+ heh This year the spirit, not just the form, of initiation has

been revived. May future years see-1943’s example followed

dictionaries the following definition
of literature, “writings whose value
lies in beauty of form or emotional
effect”. We cannot here detect any
reference in which literature is related to Life and Truth, yet even in
its task of mirroring Nature, literature is of Life and living—a vital
force.

Many and varied are the forms of
expression used by important men
for the recording of important
things. He only is “important”, and
justified in writing, who has something to say, i.e. something “important”. He has a choice of many
forms of literature with which to
clothe his naked thought. Matter
and form at the hand of genius
combine literature.

This humble page may never bear

that a glance at the works of the
masters of literary expression will
be as a guiding hand when ploughing the first furrow in a new field.
This does not mean that detailed
study should be attempted merely to
aid one in breaking into print. However it might prevent one from
sinking into the mire of the commonplace. i

There are few mechanical details
to be remembered when sending in
Contributions should be typewritten if
possible or, failing that, written in
clear, legible handwriting. Brevity,
clarity, compression, and simplicity
should be the keynotes of contributions. Such contributions may be
given to the Literary Editor or left

contributions to this column.

 

Perhaps once in many, many long years fate draws the threads of a
person’s life into a strange, unusual pattern—so strange that it makes us
stop for a minute or two and think; and then when the wonderment is past
we take a deep breath and go on again: In a letter I have just received

... Sir Ronald Forbes.was not old—as we have come to measure
And England knew him; for he was one of
those who had helped to make her great and the Forbes chemical plant
had brought knighthood to him. A brilliant chemist—he spent his eve--_nings alone in his private laboratory—his work being a secret shared only
with the war department. The lights at-night were never out and invariably at eleven when we in our own lab turned over our apparatus to the
night shift, his shadow could be seen behind the painted windows, moving

re a The Hun knew all about us, and in those hectic days when England
Ry pe pi! heard his bombs whine down and felt them crash, we in the chemical works
___took our share. But always after heavy damage, the plane from Sheffield
Ba, would bring in new equipment—even painted glass for Sir Ronald’s personal lab and the work went on. It was my good fortune to be transferred

- _-He told me his doctor had taken, refuge behind a giant medical word
-_-which ended in “phobia” but that in simple English—he had become afraid
* ___ of bombs, and the thought of being one of their victims was haunting him i.
"day and night. Of course, we all feel like that at times. Even if we don’t
bs | love life we cling to it by strong instinct. But his fear was something
Ry that shadowed his way of living, so much so that I needed no Psychologist
_ ‘to tell me what the end would be,—unkaown to me he found his own

_ shatterable, re-inforced concrete going down and down and ending in a
___ kind of buried luxury flat. Down there, Hitler could drop fifty kinds of hell
Bn out of the heayens and we would hear no whisper, it was sealed against

t e faintest whiff of gas and we breathed filtered air. We looked through
windows, cunningly lighted from behind to create the illusion of
view, At my side Sir Ronald looked lovingly upon it and murmuerd
© himself than to me: “My Mediterranean.” Beneath my feet I felt
arpet and around me everywhere was superb furniture—paintings
with distant hills and peaceful skies hung on the walls, and as

great literature but it may bear the! at the Gazette office.

      
    
      
      
  
 
  
      

After any Show: ||| Quality Shoes

For Fall . .

or . . >

Before any Meal

Compliments of

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

Wallace Bros.

Limited

415 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. S.

“a
we
Ye

IY Meu
ty YE EDD
Gey OF Cs phe
Ze ee iy .

v
CMG

  

 

 

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
ctisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

MABVENS

“GRAHAM

 
   
 

 
 

a ;
Lae
. yee
LLY ie
came

 

 
  

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
    
    
  
  
  
   

 

 

PLAY ERSS ON AVY - 3 GUE CIGARETTES

DALHOUSIANS ... [e

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES (x
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

BLAKELEY’S || Wecrse

LJ Birks extend to newcomers and returning
students a cordial wel
WELCOME come to bring their gift
roblems to Birks.
TO . ee ce eo
Come and visit—even if
DALHOUSIE you have no problem.

Henry Birks & Sons
LI Limited

—

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

43 Spring Garden Road
Barrington St., Halifax. N. 5.

 

 
    
    

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

&

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited

Fresh Fish Specialists

HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 
  
 
 

        
 

     

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

     
      
   
 
   
   

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE
ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
_ Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty i
Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

» Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leadi
of M.A., M.Sc, g, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculti ‘
Course in Public Administration: en

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and tdivoniah
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 
  
    
 
 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year. ‘
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a year.

Residence
‘ Shirreff Hall, residence for women. |
Carefully supervised residentiz! facilities for men. .

Fe see 7 )
eae a a a a

 
      
 
   
   

SS oe “

   
7 . | by GRAM POSITIUE
th ae Well, hope we are teak again sid -- ——
a fai yom extra dirty dirt that even|

 

 

(The writer of Hippocrates diary

>} Suni ht. can’t remove—_
Se Pao v ho claims — that the age. of is on holiday, and his job has been
8 . forn lity has aseed ? inst do Bill taken over by those who call them
selves Friend of the People).

f : t tions to Open House? at- met ae a

x er it is we just hope they eep The Martins and MeCoys have|ee but from various rumors we have nothing on “Newfie Pete’ and| |
got a a , |*Daxie from the Bay”, who are
oH + Re Bare a4

ae t if locked in mortal combat over a cer
ees . Reward offered for anyone who tain doctor’s daughter. At present

mp fet; tell us what there is about Hali- they are neck and neck—I wonder

who’s getting the most of it? 
at's

a -Lauchie out of town?

ad . x OR
re 83 2 eta ae. . .
oie , Ivan Wilson, the noble lad from
ulin, sinimatod Henderson spa nd ha esi a
Sur d y night? ‘Did he prefer her be lating future, judging from: his latest
oe mf Si social appearance at the Gym.
ith eee er ee
1363 ‘tell, has Ballem really got a
| Hart—throb? Nath

enn ax on Saturday night that scares

*

 
   

(a te

rae
ay i;

>
cS

——

“Cormie” one of the dull-dents,
will have to. beat Redmond to Bacteriology in the morning, if he
wishes to make good his bid for the

a
—
=

(Ree ee &

: | stu thinks that upperclassmen are]. rn
very sweet to entertain the younger friendly: girl yr ee

ot
2}
a” boys. How wee pounes ees “Curly” Lee and Dave Archibald

' . sh ewe =
‘Ff m | are rapidly becoming the “Cafe
oy _ Hot off the press Latest institu, Society” of Forrest—in that they inees dinners at the Nelson in the
course of one evening’s campaign.

* RR *

A romanee started in Ist year
Med, is continuing successfully—to
wit Geraldine and Pat.

* *

It must have been an awfully wet

= ,
a

; er
ys S xk *
advan In closing may we remind all ye
_. lads that the Hall formal is only
- « two weeks off—Nov. 4th is the date
 —gso you’d better start being good

 

i Mi “tie Saturday night to keep “C.W.A.C.
mee lovin’ Donne Smith” home from
. mete Wellington Barracks.
Wis ye #) yale
5 a Kenny “Atlas” Rodgers, no doubt
2 fy is able to maintain his healthy

 

physique by his regular Sat. P.M.
patronage to either the Y.W.C.A. or

the “Danceland”.
* *

Another Dull-Dent Charlie MacIntosh spent a very friendly week
Greeting. fellow Engineers!

At long last, your ‘correspondent
has awakened to the task before |

a nae and now we can get down to end at St. Margaret’s Bay upon the
\z business. “cunning invitation” of an Acadia
L-- Last year, you remember, we were | freshette.

al a a dominant force on the campus, to Wey Pee

The “bit of olde England” from
Canada’s far west who since coming
East has become a true Newfie convert is said to be “that way” about
a girl called Eleanor. Could it be
the “broad a” Eleanor?

Si) ee

To top it all, miracle of miracles,
Stu Maddin hasn’t been to Sdyney
for three weeks—to answer the call
of a certain car dealers passionate
daughter — could this be due to
Nicki’s able missionary work.

Prognosis: More Meds will have
stay home and study “macerated
bones” and theoretical Anatomy.
“The moral is of course obvious”,
quoting a leading pathologist and
educator.

oa, et an extent, that the Engineers
alone could give forth with more
pep: and enthusiasm than the combined .efforts of all the other faculties put together. So, this year,
_ let’s not slacken our pace, but get
3 is | _ Tight in there fighting.
\

eZ ‘S e —
ah < e

 

*. %

At the first Engineering Meeting of
_the year, held a little over a week
ago, Interfaculty sport managers
were nominated, and the following
‘results were obtained:
Football Manager—Art Burgess
Hockey Manager—Gerry Lantz
- Basketball Manager—Gus Oakley
So, come on gang, and sign up
with the Interfaculty teams!

*

Pa

  
  
   
     
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
   
   
   
  
    
 
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   

: ~~ *
ee )

iv me - Another important item of the

meeting was the question of the
| Ri annual Engineers Trip. Last year,
certain difficulties were encountered,
i) and the trip was not held; so sup
pat Pres. Hagen and his executive,
a and try to get a trip arranged this
_-year. There will be many educai a 4 apa SAP HIRe gained by so doing!
ear ae ge! 1g

are hear that MacSwain has apy plied for membership in the Hori- |
: zontal Club, but this will have to
_ come up under the table.

en ae }
W

*

 

Saturday night, and with’ whom.
Why that silly grin, Bob?
* ob *

Notice:
A frantic appeal has been heard recently from Frank MacKay who
desires a mate; come on girls, and
give this stalwart Colchester County
boy a break. Phone 2-2039, (all
hours).

To all Freshmen Engineers: There
will be an Engineer’s Smoker held
in the Smoking Room daily from
2,30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. during the
ra ask * & & coming week. You will be enter"e tained by Professor Gus Beaver

Ask:

"Dick M. about a certain incident | (prof. of Plumbing 29, and Sewer
+ on outilier’s: Point road and why| Cleaning 5) who will give an inter"2 ne apologized | so. aeetaeely to Miss esting talk on “Steam Fitting”, and
e ee EG |the priorities on Six Foot Stilson

esaee _ Bob Seeley what he was doing in| Wrenches. Come early and bring
A your own butts.

the hallway at ‘Shirreft_ ‘Hall on

Ss
Mi

 

a) ty

 
  

 
 

- Multiceltular Oneness {with the fascinating name of Dr. J.
I pass through a mental hell to J. Bronfenbrenner. Thus egged on,
off my MUST list when \ begin the first chapter and of
; ate staring me in the course I now care leave this most

_ tha author, ely Salbow, has hackeil
me | me ‘into reading Chapter VI with a
d of revealing

   

  

it can I do?

  
  
  
 
  
   

“intimate
the » Saecharomyces and|Every new persow I meet now I}

wit of my furlough eba, flagellate infusoria or ‘Bporozos.
with Bur

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

,
*

 

 

ENGINEERS STRUTTIN’—Here are the favorite “We love us”
boys of the campus in a favorite pose—stuffed around their annual

cornboil, The photo was taken at an unidentified East Coast Canadian
hut. Note bib on cookie in rear.

 

  

Glintimate Impses

by TRIPE

This is a series of articles which form a supplement to the
“Mentor”, popular feature of the Gazette two years ago, in which
college life, in all its trivialities, was sketched. This series will deal
with “After University—What?”

       

GETTING MARRIED

There is a time in the affairs of man when his resistance
is weakened to the point of asking somebody else to share his
bread and butter for the rest of his life. This is not a friend
escaped from jail whom he is defending from the law, but
rather a WOMAN. Lest the gentle reader of this series start
in consternation it is perfectly legal due to quirks of civilization.

A philosopher, skeptic that he is, states that it doesn’t
make any difference whom one marries, because all women are
alike under the skin, on which rests that superficial, but striking, element of beauty. Despite this, men have definite ideas
in mind of the one they would like to marry, and embellish her
with such titles as the one who would be so nice to come home
to, the one they would most like to see cooking eggs for them,
the one they would most like to see in the morning, and so on
to the point of repeating.

Recognizing this difference in the wants of men (as contrasted with the common Need), we are forced to initiate the
novitiate into the Meeting of the Mate. This is a subject of
much unnecessary drivel on the part of many romantic writers
and novelists, and one can gain all sorts of stuff from fortune
tellers on the subject, but the simple elementary rules are not
wanting from ordinary, common sense.

The first thing to remember is, what do you want your
mate for? I£ you’re marrying for matri-money, the best thing
to do is to look up all available millionaires, and ingratiate
yourself with them, meanwhile glancing over their shoulder to
see if there are offspring in the offing. These will have to
snared quickly, as there are plenty of fortune hunters in this
world(you resent this, naturally, wanting to save the recipient
of your affections from such a type), unless you act more
quickly.

While this-is a general rule for both men and women, we
hastily add another. If you’re a man, don’t worry, because the
woman does the real marriage-marketing. So many men, blind
and deluded by Women, have proposed to the girls of their
affection with their hearts in their throats, while all the time
the cunning creatures whose feet they kneel at, have long ago
decided what to name Junior. Thus, Men, it is useless to decide
what type of girl you want. Just start running now and it will
happen to you anyway.

Still, it might be well to consider this as a sporting chance,
and not as a mere killing while the birds are on the ground.
Thus, the Proposal comes into our consideration. To many men
this merely entails getting down on their knees, looking fearfully heavenward, and squeaking the words. There are, however, races to who proper proposal manners are as necessary as
knowing how to hold a tea cup. Here is not the heedless folly
of a race unschooled in the art of the Proposal, but a calculated
series of limb-movement which would do credit to a skilful
fencer.

Then too, the ordinary “Will you marry me” is not at all
prevalent in other countries where a more practical sense of
marriage prevails. In Russia, for example, the prospect will
say to his beloved, ‘‘Will you make my tea for me the rest of
my life?” Or, now that it is rationed, he has substituted “Will
you sweep out my pigpen for the rest of my life?” which is
another reason against wartime marriages.

Ordinarily the answer is “Yes”, breathed, so the happy
fellow says at a later date, in the most happy melody that ever
befell those sacred lips, that ever chanced from those pearly
gates, that ever did a lot of things.

The ceremony is relatively painless and the bride’s family
takes care of it, no doubt to bring the groom into close halter
in the formative stages of their ties.

Next Week: Buiding the Home.

 

men in the human bloodstream they
act up disgracefully in the body of
Anopheles mosquitoes. To quote
Burdon, p. 50: “As she (i.e., Annie
Anopheles) bites a malaria patient
the male cell throws off bodies resembling human spermatazoa—and
enter and fertilize the female cells.”
Makes you think, doesn’t it?

I know you think me just a harmless ciliated protozoan (i.e., parameeium) to write you such a letter, but
what else could I do? It’s all been
too > much for me.

from at present. I thought I had a
sore throat. Ha, Ha! Naive fellow,
aren't 1? Now I know I’m simply
being host to a galaxy of pathogenic
microorganisms and, believe me,
.|?’'m being a perfect host:

Til never really be the same Godfearing, home-loving, vice-frec fellow whom you once knew in Halifax.

  
 

 

must immediately | classify as amo
 
   

Heaven help me. Ican’t,
those @ devilish hele "ae
el Did

<< Eh

eta a clan)

 

 

Page ' Three

IT ves ieee GOODINA PIPE!"

 

 

oF
ane

 

B.Sm., Bachelor of Smoking, is a great

degree. It entitles a man to hours of Blissful Satisfaction in all the days of his life. Graduate under
Prof. Picobac—always mild, cool, sweet.

Picobac

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

 

 

 

DIANA SWEETS

TEA ROOM

370 Spring Garden Road
3-9754

We Cater to Collegians

For Sporting

Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

ORPHEUS
Monday -Tuesday - Wednesday

“SARONG GIRL”
“LONE STAR GIRL”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“REVENGE OF ZOMBIES”
“THUNDERING HERD”

Call on

PIANOS — CHURCH ORGANS
SHEET MUSIC — RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday

“MEANEST MAN IN THE
WORLD”

Jack Benny

CAPITOL

Mon., Tues., Wed.

“Background To
Danger”’
with
BRENA MARSHALL
GEORGE RAFT

LC]

Wednesday and Thursday
“MOON IS DOWN”

Friday and Saturday
“MR LUCKY” — Cary Grant

Thurs., Fri. and Sat.

‘Salute To The
Marines”
with

WALLACE BEERY

CASINO

*.
HELD OVER!

 

CANADA’S OWN

PICTURE! GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

| “ALIBI”
with Margaret Lockwood

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“RAGING HEAVEN”

“LITTLE NELLIE KELLY”
Robert Montgomery
and Ingrid Bergman

“Corvette K-225”
*

Shows daily at 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9.

  
  

 

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

  
     
   
     
        

Students who do not desire a‘ complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

   
     
     

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month ‘

 
     
   
    

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years.

    
   
   
   
  

_ Enter om Day

Pres —
rr
Ae; aie

   
  
   
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
    
 
 
  
 
   
  
    
   
   
  
 
 
    
  
 

   

1%
ale are |
4 Pa en eve

  

SIDE LINES

By BILL POPE

the field, passed Henderson,
scored after a fifty yard run.

Army, in my opinion, is not eighteen points better than Dal. But
credit must be given where credit
is due, and in all fairness it should
be said that the Army boys made
the most of their advantages. Dal,
meanwhile, missed many fine scoring chances. They had the Army
backed right up to the line on several occasions but could not carry
the ball over.

Too much loose play and lack of
teamwork hindered Dal’s cause. The
Tigers had good ‘kicking and good
running, but individual stars will
never make up for an average group
of players that use teamwork. The
Tigers might well remember the
gist of the following lines when they
meet Acadia Saturday, for if they
don’t a repetition of last week’s
game is sure to result.

“It is all very well to have courage
and skill,

And its fine to be counted a Star,

But a single deed with its touch. of
thrill,

Doesn’t tell us the Man you are.

For there’s no lone hand in the game
we play,

We must work for a bigger scheme,

And the thing that counts in the

World today
Is ‘How do you work

Team ?’”

There is talk about organizing a
league for one of the finest indoor
sports in the world. I refer to that
popular game, sometimes’ called
table-tennis, but better known as
ping-pong. The proposed entries
would come from Waegwoltic, No.
6 Military Depot, Eastern Air Command, Clark Ruse Aircraft, and
Dalhousie. This league should benefit many of the fine players in the
University by giving them a chance

   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

¥ ent adie: In the first half Dal
ata her own, and the period ended
are. with Army having a lead of only
vs three points.

ea half but soon faded, and for
e ‘rest of the game Army had con
_The Dal boys

stages of the game.
Probably the most glaring fault of
re Tigers: was their inability to
ee tackle. In the whole game there
ar Re was not one good solid tackle. Every
Tiger seemed content to either grab
ay? his opponent around the neck or to
a: a piece of an Army sweater.
* “That kind of tackling will never win
a - football games! If it stops the
aye at all, he will probably have
__ plenty of time to pass to a teama mate. Only hard tackles will stop
Dar team.
i ' Since the game the Tigers have
been put through tackling practice.
i i - Coach Burnie Ralston is not pessiert _ mistic over the defeat, and expects
ae Tigers to make a good showing
f against Acadia, :
if uf Acadia is Dal’s old rival. Each
if _ year they meet the competition
"ie _ Seems to grow keener. Last year
_ feelings really ran high, and it was.
not only the players who were in
_ the midst of it.
_ The Tigers. this year appear
stronger than last year’s squad.
_ Several good players are on the
team. Henderson, Dal’s fullback,
“saved the day on many occasions
_ with his long, powerful kicks. They

 

with the

 

R:
oe

a i SA ieever, like some of his team.
ane re. Henderson did not seem to

ig Star on different occasions. Currie
| a and Jardine also performed well for
Dal, using their speed to advantage.|to enter in competitive matches. We
The prettiest play of the game—|wish this league all the success that
_ and the most painful for Dal sup-! the speedy little game deserves.

 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

  

for your Footwear to

| SHANE’S SHOE STORE
_ 1397 BARRINGTON ST. 3-9144

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone 3-6881

    
 

   

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

   

_ | FLOWER SHOP
‘|| 37 BLOWERS STREET
| Phone 3-7133 HALIFAX

  
  

   
 

Four Experienced Barbers

 

        
    
    
  
 
 

MAPLE LEAF DAIRY

A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.
Phone 4-2357

MILK - CREAM - _ BLEND - BUTTERMILK

 
 

YOUR SUITS WILL

Look Newer |
es Last Longer

When they go to Cousins

| = REGULARLY ©

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,
| to keep them feeling soft and fresh to maintain
ae a ee ois jee A aoa “what practice

«4S: _“Buy Tewer clothes—send what you have
to Cousins often.

        
    

sa = . m
a 1: a. ,
ee aria y a
a 
     

bs a 1
ese
sere SR

  
 
   
        
         
     
      
 
 

i wal in
aa Pris y
; / a apg. iz

 

 

porters—was when McAdam of the
3} Army stole a loose ball right in the
midst of the Tigers and sped down
and

  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

Above are shown a section of the good-sized crowd which turned out
last Saturday for Dal’s first game of the year. An even better crowd is
anticipated for the game Saturday, and next week we hope to devote this
space to a picture of Dal making the winning touch,

a ee ee
“In the fell clutch of circumstance
I have not winced nor cried aloud.
Under the bludgeoningss of chance
My head is bloody, but unbowed.”

the three-quarter line was they did
not make an opposing player take
each one out, before passing the ball,
with the result that when it reached
the wing, there were three or four
men to stop him.

* * &

In last Saturday’s game Dalhousie certainly built up for itself a
nice handicap with which to meet
the loquacious and victorious friends
from Wolfville. For those who are
blissfully ignorant of the scores in
last Saturday’s games: Army defeated Dal, 18—0; Acadia defeated
Navy, 33—3.

In defence the three-quarter line
was even worse, for no one should
have broken through the very centre
of the line as much as Army did,
Dal sports “experts” said.

The tackling was not up to standard. “Hit a man around the knees
and you stop him; grab him around
the neck, trying to choke his life
oo ee eee =|} out, and he gets mad,’”’: was one
a 3 is _ | comment.

The Dal cheering was much better
organized than it has been for several years. The cheer-leaders are to
be congratulated.

Anyway, tomorrow is another day,
so team, “Kick high, tackle fow—
Dalhousie, let’s go!’”

 

It is rumoured that the freshettes
are changing their lingo yearly to
keep up with the growing MANPOWER SHORTAGE! In 1941 they
said, “Whatta Man!” In 1942, they
said, “What, a man?” In 1943, they
say, “What’s a man???

 

The present standing of the teams

in the league is: Acadia, 2 wins, 0
losses; Army, 1 win, 1 loss; Navy, 0
wins, 1 loss; Dal, 0 wins, 1 loss.
Whether Dal can climb out of the
cellar, let alone into the playoffs, is
a matter for grave misgivings by

ARENA |

 

those “in the know”, much, of

; ‘Dp \
course, depending on the game with SF E CIAL
Acadia.

WRESTLING

Friday, October 22
9.00 p.m.

So far as last week’s game goes,
and an opening game should not be
counted for too much, Dalhousians
were snown a fine example of what
a group of fairly good players can
do when they have had a little practice together. For the first half Dal
played a fine game. In the second
half, many of our opponents’ points
were chalked up ‘through the ball being called back to Dal territory, and
through penalty kicks, as a result
of Dal being unaccustomed to the
new rules.

Though Dal kept hoping and
cheering for a try, the scrum heeled
the ball about three times, and it’s
hard to get a touchdown when the
oppesing three-quarter line gets the
ball. The chief criticism

 

 

2 out of 3 Falls—60 Min.

Bill “Whipper”
WATSON

British Empire Champion

JOE DeVOLTO

HONTE LADUE, Hollywood, Cal.
vs. CLEM DUROCHER, Quebec

Limit

 

 

Rush 65c; Res. 1.00; Ringside 1.30
(Tax included)

Tickets on sale at Knight’s
Cigar Store, George St.

made of '(ggpqgaaeneneeeseeemmmmmmms

BUY VICTORY BONDS SPEED THE VICTORY

 

 

 

Say

Schwark
PTLD RY ae

 

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
‘be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking
Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

In the finals of the Dalhousie tennis tournament Phil Cole defeated
Blair Dunlop in a hard fought, three
set match, and was awarded the
Munroe-Evans trophy. Ann Saunderson, in the ladies’ singles, won
from Pat Hollis.

The calibre of play in the mens’
singles was surprisingly good. Cole
has been an outstanding player for
several years while Dunlop is rapidly developing into a strong player.
Cole won the first set by a score of
6-2, but was nosed out in the second
\-7. The final and deciding set went
to Cole at 6-3. ©

Margaret MacPherson, winner of

 

October 22, 1943

 

TAKE DAL TENNIS FINALS

 

 

the women’s championship last year,
was beaten in the semi-finals by Ann
Saunderson, who went on to
from Pat Hollis in the final.

Results of the semi-final and final
matches are as follows:

Men‘s Singles — Philip Cole def.
3ill Pope, 6-2, 7-5; Blair Dunlop def.
George Smith, 6-3, 6-4. (Final)
Philip, Cole def. Blair Dunlop 6-2,
5-7, 6-3.

Women’s Singles

win

Pat Hollis def.

 

M. Rollins, 6-1, 6-2; Ann Saunderson
def. Margaret MacPherson, 6-4, 6-4.
Saunderson, def.

(Final)
Hollis.

Ann Pat

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   

22. YOU can
spot tt every time

IKE “winning a letter,” keeping
out in front of the others takes

an extra something. Coca-Cola has
it—in taste... in quality...
in. refreshment.

The finished art that comes
from 57 years of practice goes
into the making of Coca-Cola.
A special blend of flavour
essences merges all the in- /
gredients of Coca-Cola
into a unique, original
taste of its own.

Te,
SN

There are many ways
to quench thirst, but ,
ice-cold Coca-Cola
brings true refresh
ment,
* * *
It’s natural for popular
names to acquire friendly
abbreviations. That’s
why you hear Coca-Cola
called Coke. Both mean
the Same thing...
“coming from a single
source and well
known to the community.”

  
  

as

él
4 Beats k
4
4 eee a ws MARK
4 Delicious and

Cpe de
Ae ihe best is always the better buy!

   

With war, there’s less Coca-Cola. So
Coca-Cola, first choice, sells out first
—sometimes it may not be in the red
cooler. Worth waiting for . .. those
times when “The Coke’s in”

 
 
  

ee =i
ces ect cate

5

 

ee

<a
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

634

Where the
College Men Congregate

Specialists in Smart Clothes for
Young Men.

Pa

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

112 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

ACADIA STORES

*

GROCERIES — FRUITS
MEATS, ETC.

*

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOITIA

Ll
‘

2:

h

 
