 

_ CLIPPINGS

‘Mount Allison University. Last year

Pos

prospective technical officers. The

'

Pt
“

ae.

bi - Home Life —

‘s said the soldier to the waitress.

'

'

 
 

bi Ne

| _ CANADA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 

e Students Wartime Status Is Defined

 

~ CAMPUS

BY JOHN HIBBITTS

 

Science Students Interview

Last week a Selection Board interviewed senior science students at

all pure science students filled out
declaration forms stating their will_ ingness or unwillingness to volunteer
their services to the government as

visit of the Selection Board was a
follow up on this.

x FF &

De Luxe Style
“Bring me some cold porridge”

“Burn some toast to a cinder,” he
added. “Fry two bad eggs and serve
bi ecan on a dirty plate. Make the
coffee: so that it tastes like mud, and
bring it ina i i cup so that it
- drips down my when I drink it.”

“When the Whirlwind Blows.”

_ The concoctions came and the puzzled waitress asked, “Is there anything else?”

“Yes,” said the soldier. “Now sit
ern and nag me. I’m homesick.”

* * *

 

 

Gazette

STUDENT PUBLICATION

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

HALIFAX, N.S., FEBRUARY 18, 1944

a sit

 

   

DAL CO-EDS STAGE PLAYS

 

Shown above is the complete cast of Essen Dane’s “Happy Returns”
produced by Phi Beta Phi presented on the gym stage last Friday night.
Other Connolly Shield competitor, Delta Gamma, staged Essen Dane’s

Place: the gymnasium; time: Friday night; occasion: the
presentation of two one-act plays staged respectively by Delta

Gamma and Phi Beta Phi in competition for the Connolly Shield.
The most that can be said for); met in equal proportion by any co-ed

play number one,
“When the Whirlwind Blows” is that
an inexperienced cast did a mediocre
job of a poor play. With the scene

~ The nut is gone.”

I

»

 
    
 
     
   
   
   
      
   
    
  
    
 
 
 

e

)

” Staff Questionaire

set “in any European country in the
throes of political and labour struggles and upheavals” the plot lacked
the color and suspense the occasion
demanded and was far outside the
comprehension and grasp of co-ed
dramatics.

But the difficulties met by the
Delta Gamma trio would have been

In Memoriam
(With apologies to Tennyson)
It happened at a funeral service
‘somewhere in Kansas. “Friends,”
said the Preacher ‘We have here
only the shell of the dear departed.

Continued on Page Four

‘roles

Essex Dane’s! dramatic group on the campus. The

east could not have done justice to
the play, the play could not have
done justice to the cast. And, in all
fairness to the Delta Gamma aggregation, it may be said that, assigned
in the second play, they
might quite readily have rivalled
the brilliance of their Phi Beta Phi
sorores.

However, costumes, properties,
lighting and sound effects, admira
(Continued on page three)

 

the nation.]

QUESTION: What Should Be a University’s Contribution

[The SECOND in a series of answers by members of the
teaching staff to questions put forward by the Gazette on
problems pertaining to the university, the community and

to the Community?”

ANSWERED by Prof. Lothar Richter, Institute of Public Affairs.

Universities are, in the first place, institutions of learning. They endeavour to develop
the personality of our young men and women. They give them the educational background
for pursuing their future careers and they try to make them conscious of their responsibilities as citizens in a democracy. This always has been and will remain the most important

Social Research post-war developments it may not be

But in the last few decades added| able to hold its own in the world
new resposibilities have come to the| markets”. This statement applies

_ university. They are in the field of| equally to the natural and the social

social and economic research. Re-| .isnces. It is for Canada’s Mari«search has in the past been a pre-| . . ; ; ;
rogative of the science departments time Provinces no less valid than it
_ but the increasing importance which| is for the Mother Country. As a
social and economic problems have|™atter of fact, we have hardly
assumed in modern life have made| Started to collect the basic data on
research in the social sciences| UT natural resources, on the social
equally imperative. The questions conditions under which our people
involved are often new, complex and | live and on the way in which govern
me little explored. They can no longer|™ent operative. Very few systemotic

be. answered by the use of political] Surveys and studies have been urder_ slogans. What is called for are un- en, the main exception being
biased observation and careful-an-|2@griculture. It will be found, on the
_ alysis, the methods of scientific re- other hand, that hardly any of the
~ search. It is for the university to| Problems with which the Maritime
render these services to the com-| region will be confronted in postraunity. war times, can be tackled with any
hope of success before their extent
and nature and their social and
wie = economic implications have been
Would Expend acties ‘elarified by methods of scientific re
In the recent Centenary issue of|search. The results obtained in that
thie London “Economist”, an appeal] way are indispensable for determinwas made for an extension of the|ing measures meant to improve the

* * *€

ae research facilities in Great productivity of the main Maritime

, Britain and a better correlation of | industries: farming, fishing, lumberresearch _ work ‘undertaken by indus-| ing and mining. What effects the
‘univers ities and government. program of social security proposed

 

 

 

  
  
 
    

: that i tie spends|by the Dominion government will
; any other have on the Maritimes can only be
. ‘the| peobanted oe the basis: of accurate

| on existin; g@ social needs. | q
ancial relatic 9d
er. on _

 
 

m contribution the university can make to the welfare of the community.

thorough study of public finance

than has been made hitherto.
* * Bd

Research and Teaching Related

To establish social research as a
regular college activity will enrich
the life of the university and will be
valuable for instructors and students
alike. There is a close relation between teaching and research which
makes it beneficial for the academic

FLASH!
Arts & Science Meeting

The following are the results of
the Arts and Science elections held
yesterday:

President—Gordon Hart

Vice-Pres.—Connie Archibald

Treasurer—A, Farquhar

Dramatics Mgr.—Joyce Nicholson

Activities Mgr.—Irma MacQuarrie

Sports Mgr.—Bob MacDonald

D.A.A.C. Rep—Les McLean
Further details of nominations for
Student Council posts will appear in
next week’s Gazette.

Toboggan Party, Dance

Feature Festivities

Last Sunday night saw the fulfillment of the long-awaited Frosh
social. It finally turned out to be a
toboggan party at Gorsebrook with
the dripping participants trooping
back to the lower gym for a dance
and refreshments afterwards. There
were about 20 couples present and
the chaperones were Prof. and Mrs.
Jewett and Mr. and Mrs. Ralston.

There was much consternation as
to what form the affair should take,
particularly when the weather man
vascillated. A hasty decision made
by the committee in charge changed
it from a skating party into a toboggan party.

After being tossed about in the
snow for several hours the dance in
the lower gym was a welcome relief.
The party looked more like a circus
than anything else with brilliant
shirts and flashy sweaters featuring
the evening,—the “dancing” of Eddie
Sarson contributing no little to the
circus effect. The refreshments were
very acceptable to all. Leone Mooney
who was in charge of them, and who
will no doubt make somebody a good
wife, is to be commended for the fine
job she did.

It is talked about the campus that
more of this sort of thing would be
conducive to college spirit. How
about some other campus organizations folowing the lead of the frosh?

Dalhousie Art Group

The Canadian Society of Water
Colour Artists Travelling Exhibition
will be open to you and your friends
from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Thursday,
Feb. 17th, Friday, Feb. 18th, Saturday, Feb. 19, Sunday, Feb. 20, at the
Geology Department Science Build
 

 

 

instructor to devote his energies to|ing, Studley Campus.

both fields. His teaching will be enlivened by the practical experience
gained through surveys or field work
and his research enriched by the
preoccupation of his mind with the
basic principles of the science on
which he has to lecture. Research
work offers also fine opportunities
for students’ cooperation. When a
few years ago household budgets of
Maritime wage-earners were surveyed*under a project sponsored- by
the Dalhousie Institute of Public Affairs, students of four Maritime
universities participated in the field
work. And how much more interesting it is to analyse in a research
seminar the budget of one’s home
town than to listen to a lecture on
municipal finance! Students who,
during their college years have
learned to appreciate the value of
impartial research and have been ac
uainted with its techniques, will, in
[laterite be better equipped to make

 

oF aes

Moving pictures will be shown

each evening at 8.30.

 

LIBRARY HOURS

Owing to the poor attendance at
the Library, especially after 10 p.m.
the Library will close at 10 p.m. on
and after Monday, Febraury 21 and
until further notice.

 

Govern Yourself

Radio Debate—Wednesday, Feb. 23,
10 to 10.30. .

One-Act Play—Wednesday, Feb. 23,
8 p.m. followed by dancing.

Sadie Hawkins Dance—
Firday, Feb. 25.

Delta Gamma Issue of Gazette—

Feb. 25.

 

Geoffrey Bagnall has signifield his
intention of not running in the
presidential elections; leaving as

Ten te King ona, Arthur

 

ee ee dD

eir ate peice | to i, polfere

Resolutions Ave Considerate

 

Of Draft-Aged Collegians

Qualified Artsmen Allowed to Continue Studies

The following extracts from resolutions or recommendations at a meeting of the University Advisory Board of the
Department of Labour on January 6, 1944, will be of interest to
present or prospective male students who have reached the age
of 18144 or who will reach this age during this or the next academic session:

1. The following courses will be who enter the University for the first
considered as contributing to the | time in 1944,

 

prosecution of the war or in the na- 4, Any student enrolled in terms

tional interest: of 2.and 3 above shall be reported to
Medicine, Dentistry, Engineering |the Mobilization authorities if he

or Applied Science, Pharmacy, | fails to do satisfactory academic

Education, Commerce, Specialized | work or to comply with regulations

courses in Mathematics, Physics, | of military training.

‘Chemistry, Biology, or Geology, or 5

5. Any male student who has been
obliged to retire from a University
under 2 or 3 and who is sub
in courses which enable students

to prepare and qualify for speci- above,

alized hacia Mathematics, | ..quently rejected for military serPhysics, Chemistry, Biology oF | ico may be permitted to return to
Geology. the. University if he presents a per
  
 

2. Any male student of 18% or
more, and subject to call, enrolled in
any course not listed in paragraph 1
above, will be considered as pursuing
a course essential to the national in
terest if in the session of 1943-44 he

mit to do so from National Selective
Service.

6. Students whose work is satis
| factory will not be called before the

end of the session of 1943-44.

is in the first half of all students 7. Students over 18% who have
enrolled in the same year as deter-} been enrolled in a University and
mined by the final examinations. then been absent for a year or more

8. The same regulation as in 2|shall not re-enter without permission

will apply to male students over 18% of the Mobilization Board.

Tri-Service Ball Planned Next Month

A Dalhousie Services Ball will be held on March 31 in the
Gym. It is being sponsored by the U.A.T.C,, but the committee
is made up of members of the three units on the Campus—the
C.0.T.C., U.A.T.C. and U.N.T.D. The committee consists of
s Winterbourne, K. Wilson, W. Snuggs, and Sgt. Rogul from
the U.A.T.C.; R. Wickwiré and D. Churchill- Smith from the
C.0.TC., and J. Bloomer from the U.NT. D.

The members of the different units © r
will come in uniform and only members of these units will be admitted
to the dance, no stags allowed. Jerry
Nauugler’s ten piece orchestra will
be in attendance. Tickets may be
obtained from many members of the
committee or from the members of
the U.A.T.C.

This dance will be the last of the
College year, so come on fellows and
get your dates early. Further details will be announced later.

The President of Students’ Council
Replies to Campus Criticism

During the past two weeks certain criticisms have been
levelled against the Students’ Council, and having par ticular
reference to certain members of that body. It is necessasry to
reply to these charges.

While reading last week’s sports column in the Gazette,
Alexander Pope’s “familiar verse entered my mind—

“Words are like leaves,
And where they most abound
Much fruit of sense beneath is seldom found.’”

A beautiful example of the above was presented when
William Pope wrote his last column. He certainly allowed his
imagination to get the better of him. However, we will try to
profit by his mistakes, and instead of wandering in the realm
of fancy, we will examine carefully the problems which confronted this year’s Students’ Council. In other words, we will
approach this subject objectively, not subjectively.

Reviewing the problems which presented themselves to the
Council, we note that in September, 1943, we learned with regret that Tom Patterson: would be unable to continue as President. As a result of this loss, the Council did not begin to
function smoothly until a student forum ratified the recommendation of the Council that the Vice-President continue as
President. This having been done, it required further time to
become familiar with the position.

The next difficulty faced by the Council was that presented

in a lower registration which of course meant lowered revenue,
Continued on page 2

U.A. T- C. Promotions

Recent promotions of the U.A.T.C.
They
poral Harvey to rank of Sergeant,
K. R. Jeffrey and J. W.
to the rank of Corporals.
Rogul of the U.A.T.C.
staff has received his promotion to
rank of Sergeant.

have been released. are CorD. Johnston
Corporai

Instructional

\

4
=a } i oe eae
    
 

  

“ilalt - P —_ - -—
We $i e . Pe
pth dhl oe Re bee ke > ’
a * ny i 20
of THE

  
 
  

 

E GAZETTE are those of

 

 

_ GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44 | |
Te oneee . ses see ew ee me) tas ee i ee ee .Ted Shields

ee wtee cases bene eevenseaienve

 
  
    
  

or a's oe) 6 BUTS «0,0 .470) .0'vie'ale. aie deta bt 8 at eAs ow 6
Pore et ee ane eee a8 Riis hihcae atk c's doy «ky peoOR McCleave
nf is Bie ea ték eee ane eee we ewe eee wee ee eeevesn Bill Pope

 
 
 
 

ee ee

NPR OR ee Scie Alas Oi Sela sree aase Jeffrey E. MacDonald
Bee Pe oan toy: Deurie Smith
ai C aN nae eae pats sins a's eek 2 vis John Hibbetts
heres tay a Wilks crease eet. s+sseDon Corringham

li, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley
‘g Morrison, Eileen Phinney, Neil McKelvie

  

me

  

ee A WELCOME |
lhousie this week welcomed three members of the World
t Christian Federation, who are helping the Dalhousie
observe “Federation Week”. In Christian countries all
world, university students are joining in the observathis week of discussion and reconsecration. In these
esome times, when traditional ideals and morals are
, breaking down under the destruction of our carpe diem
ssophy, it is a heartening sign that men and women of our
rsities, the leaders of the much heralded post-war world,
been strong enough in their union under the Christian
x to form a world-wide organization. May their humani| aims see attainment beyond their most optimistic dreams!

--- . -- FOR PRESIDENT...

While Pro-Cons and C.C.F.-ers ery in the wilderness for a
nadian federal election, while Republicans shriek “No Fifth
either’, while Britons tell the grandchildren about the
English election of 1935, Dalhousie has kept a firm grip
Bh on her political traditions, and announced the annual Council
_ élections will be held as usual on the first Tuesday in March.
_ A notable, and highly to be commended, departure from
the custom of the last few years has been made, however, by

_ his year’s Council; all candidates for the Presidency though

now in professional schools, are ex-Studleyites. This is as it

should be; the position of Council President entails a tremendous responsibility to students of both Studley and Forrest; to

 
    
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
     
    
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
   
  
   
   
   

 

; ry on the student government in the spirit in which it was
i established, the President must be intimately acquainted with
the trend of opinion, with the spirit, of both campi. The poli_ tical policy of the Gazette is of course non-partisan, but it can,
_ and herewith does,* congratulate the present Council, on its
- . choice of three such able and excellent candidates.
- Students will have a difficult task deciding between such
evenly-matched nominess in Election Day. For this reason, as
well as to stir up the somewhat lackadiasical interest in campus
elections, many are hoping for a vigorous election campaign.
Candidates for the past few years have too often thrown a veil
of false modesty over their claims to the presidential honors,
th the result that many students, knowing their future leader
_ only by name, have refrained altogether from casting a ballot.
_ In the interests of a 100% student vote, and also in the inerests of good clean fun, we-would like to see the electioneering
a decade ago revived. Dalhousie spirit has grown by leaps
bounds this year; what could help it more than a Council
,wiose election every student had had a real and lively

  

__ The President of Students Council
Bree ae Continued from page one
| __to the extent of $1100.00. Although the receipts were consid
_ erably lower this year, the budgets presented by the societies
| __-_were as high and in some cases higher than in previous years.
_ It is obvious to any rational person that some or all of the bud_ gets had to be reduced. __

-.__ It might be said that the football team received more than
_ its share ot the students’ revenue: That is probably true, for
_ Most of the expenditures were made before the budgets were
_ presented to the Students’ Council.
' het us glance at the Glee Club. It has been said that the
_ President of the Glee Club used her influence to see that the
_ budget of that society was not cut. This is not true, for the
Club budget was investigated more thoroughly than any
er budget. Although Miss’ White possesses great charm, it
ridiculous to suggest that she can twist the other members
the Council around her little fnger. The reason that the
e Club budget was not cut further was that more students
the Glee Club than from any

  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

5
42 50
é

bes

ed greater benefifit from
r activity.
We shall next consider the hockey situation. The charge
been levelled in anything but subtle terms that the Presi.
_ dent cf the Council boosted hockey because of his own desire
__ to enjoy that sport. The truth of the matter is that because
4 full scholastic time-table, interning, and extra curricular
. I would not have played at all if there had been another
ender available for the position. If anyone doubts the
Y of the above statement, the hockey manager, Doug.
I soon dispel any doubts.
t was decided to sponsor a hockey team it was felt
uld be piaced on a sound basis. Thus the expenn coach. hiring of the rink, ete. One of the main
Ay the hockey budget is high is that we do not own
le in basketball we own our gym), and that hockey
pensive sport—as would be self-evident to any

    
  

 
 

    
  

  

     
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

reorge Smith, the basketball manager.
Council to have the amount of $23.00
n items in the basketball budget to help
Proposed trip to Mount A.
Sliced the basketball budget beyond all
ed, how is it 7
; with regard to certain items?
Council was a little lax when
e it seems that they allowed
ard to certain items. In the

  

   

; be assumed that they represent the opinion of ~

| people come on time?

than others.

it possible to reconcile the| bef

    
 
 
 

   

The Salt of the Earth--A Short Story

The telephone rang shrilly in the silence. Jim Smith crossed
the large shabby office. “Dr. Smith speaking. Yes, Mrs. Jones,
you want an appointment for Tommy. How about ten thirty
on Friday. You’ll bring him yourself? Oh no, it won’t hurt
him.” He cursed himself silently for breaking his secret resolution to fix children’s teeth. Children were difficult enough anyway without an anxious mother making things worse. Still the
little beggars couldn’t suffer. Even children wern’t quite as
bad as gosspy old women. That fat woman the other day—
Whatshername ?—had nearly driven him crazy talking about
her family and war work. She had two boys in the airforce.

Jim dumped his instruments in the sterilizer. The office was barren
and uninviting. Its size dwarfed the equipment he had taken over from
Dr, T——. It certainly needed to be altered and redecorated. Well...
someday. He was testing his drill when the slam of the door announced
the arrival of his first patient, an elderly gentleman who had come for
the last fitting of his false teeth. He coricentrated on a succession of
patients. He missed his nurse, who was sick, having become more accus‘omed than he knew to her deft assistance and her care of his patients.

Late in the morning he became aware thateno patients were waiting.
He cleaned up the office. He wandered to the window. Why couldn’t
Didn’t they raelize he was busy. He barely glanced
at the gray spire of the Church opposite—a church which had watched
thousands of people and many generations pass by since it was built
almost two hundred years ago when the town was founded. The trees
tossed wildly as their last yellow leaves fluttered away in the wind. A
zroup of sailors sauntered up the street. Jim looked after them in bitter
envy. He hated himself because he had been rejected by both the army
and navy. A soldier and his girl walked slowly. Two airmen stood
‘talking on the curb, Four Wrens laughingly~hailed the sailors. Army
girls went by in a truck. Even women could fight while he had to stay
home! If only he and Anna could get married. If he could feel he was
working for his home it might be easier. He w as sick of rented rooms
and overcrowded restaurants. But as Anna’s father, Andrew Browne,
had often pointed out to him he had no money and a practice to pay for.
Of course he had lots of work now but how mutch would he have after
‘he war. Dr. T ’S paying patients had preferred a more experienced
lentist leaving him either transients or poor people who would never be
ible to pay dentists’ bills when the war was over. The worst of it was
that Anna agreed with her father. If he could get some important
patients he could convince Browne that he could take care of Anna.

The merchant seamen who had the next important couldn’t be coming
now. He decided to grab a sandwich and tell that girl he could take her.

Meeting Long, a college friend who was back from overseas, hadn’t
made Jim any happier. Why did he have to be the only one of his class
not in uniform?

The next phone call made him exhilarated. Miss Carstairs wanted to
have her teeth filled. “Yes, Miss Carstairs. Would five o’clock be satisfactory? It would. Fine!”

Jane Carstairs was a well known writer—a woman whose opinion was
important in the town and who was always illing-to praise her doctor,
dentist, hairdresser or grocer to friends and acquaintances. If she liked
him—why he and Anna—he might be able to buy new equipment.

Miss Carstairs arrived promptly. She was a pleasant middle-aged
woman who talked briefly with him about the weather, gas rationing, the
scarcity of ?, taxes, and politics. She explained that her dentist
had retired a year ago, and that her aunt, Mrs. Thane, had reconimended
Dr. Smith. Mrs. Thane had been to him several times. Miss Carstairs
made an appointment for herself, another for her sister, told him to
expect'her uncle and paid her bill. | |

Jim was anxious to see Anna. He was taking her to the big dance
it the Forum. He did not heed the placards bearing Winged V’s which
urged him “To Buy Bonds and Speed the Victory” . . .

Anna and Jim were dancing happily to the music of a band of national popularity. Andrew Browne had been pleased about Miss Carstairs’
When Jim diffidently mentioned Mrs. Thane, Mr. Browne had become enthusiastic. “She goes to you! A fine woman—the salt of the earth.”
Jim tried desperately to remember who Mrs. Thane was. The name
seemed familiar. Mr. Browne went onn. “She has a large family. Takes
an interest in all sorts of charities—war work too, now. More relations
and friends than you could count. If she goes to you the whole connection
will follow. All good middle class people. They believe in going to a
good doctor and a good dentist and they always pay cash. Lucky for you
she likes you. I people like that come to you I don’t see any reason why
you and Anna don’t get married.”

Who the deuce was Mrs. Thane, Jim wondered. Then he remembered.
Mrs. Thane was the fat old woman he hadn’t liked! The salt of the earth!
“Jim dear, I think we’d better be married in January, Kay is coming
down then anyway, and I want her for my bridesmaid.” Jim expressed
his consent.

It was bitter to owe your happiness to a person you despised. Perhaps he had just been tired. Of course he didn’t dislike her.

—P. R. B.
ee
carrying out its schedule, it would seem to suggest that they
have not been impoverished to the extent of annihilation.

It has been impossible in this short reply to give all the
facts of the issues involved. However, we have endeavored to
place before you a somewhat sketchy picture of the Council’s
side of the Glee Club, Basketball and Hockey budgets. Once
again we reiterate that it was not because of personal ambitions and selfish desires that budgets were in some cases larger

 

~

We should like to remind you again that this
| 2 year we wer
pees with a decreased enrollment and that expenses ae
igher. We tried to apportion monies justly, . In doing this

3

ore criticizing this year’s Council, stop and consider the

matter.
In closing we should like t bear

easier to be-critieal than co = ba a a i that “it is much
| KEN MacKINNON,

~ . a
bi ee ae

- a i =
en a ‘

        

 

 

President, Dalhousie Students’ Council, |/L

<P Gen)

 
 

  
     
           
  

 
  

 
  

PLAYER’S NAVY. CUT. CIGARETTES

 

DALHOUSIANS.. ..

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL’ STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

 

BIRKS
DIAMONDS

Magic words symbolizing supreme quality in
the gems.

Yet Birks Diamonds
cost no more.

After any Show

or *-e.

Before any Meal

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

    
   
 

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

    
 
 

 

FARMERS’ MILK

  
 

ALWAYS PURE

 
  

ALWAYS RICH

  
 

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

 
  

ER oe Elin

  

 

Are You Competing For

The James DeMille Prizes, $200 and $100?
The Joseph Howe Prizes, $200 and $100?
The Mushkat Memorial Essay Prize, $40?
The Overseas League Essay Prize, $40?

 

The Mushkat Prize is open to students in Arts

and Science only; thie others are open to students in all faculties.

 

For complete details see

announcements on th
bulletin boards. hes

 

Arrange your work to provide essays suitable for
entry in one or more competitions.

    

   

 
ae

pe ae Ae
Fie re
be
Mi

by FLL) hee ele a a 4

Sit bee ws i i tt Fone A
oe ae thes Poles ee Papi) 4
br beta) Up ee ea boy ye ake Pe
Ki ee.

_ Egineering—Gone is the Culture of Yesteryear

A common criticism levelled against the engineering student is that

the chasm between trade and learning reaches its highest point in
“educatic ”. While students in other professions are supposed to

a modicum of Arts courses, and thus ensure themselves a liberal

i “education, the Engineer ‘is not liable to such at all. The result has been

|

Re

BF?

eh
aXe ne

i) hy
‘iinet

7 --our sweet chariot of the same name.

sreeding of a huge, swarthy, bearded, and profane type of society,
norant in the manners of sweet learning, but with the power to kick

aside an ox which may be tranquilly resting on the imaginary lines the

faa
Fa a
re.
t

_ engineer may be running.

One of the greatest exponents of liberal. education (me) has volunteered to fill in the gap thereby created in the engineer’s education. Actully, little experience is needed to dwell in society and be a learned man;
y reading this article, any reasonable person may acquire the knack.
_ The outward mark of a learned man is not tolerance, or love of the
aesthetic, but is babble. Learn to rave in society, and you are a learned

man. ‘Be an inventor of fairy tales: “This tea-cup will someday be priceless (Be vague about it). It comes from an old Chinese pattern used in

the Fu-Munch-Too and following Fan-My-Brow eras. One of the most
otable emperors of this dynasty was Swing-Low, from which we get
urs) Born in an undated era, unforately the details of which are lost to us, he was one of the most

seri.

et owerful potentates of his time. A firm believer in the rights of woman,
Barn ¢i0

- about something which the other side is really expert at.

he raised them to the status of animals, and decreed that while the woman
had to follow the ox and plough, she was nevertheless the guider of its
tinies and not subservient to it”. Such a display will astonish.
That will do for unanswerable answers. But suppose you are talking
Suppose, for

_ example, you are talking to a lover of Chaucer about the work of that

*

_ especially if your expression is really unintelligent.

she
ow

wa.

“4  f

i !

th , ;
aa
=

i

great man. Just don’t sit there, and agree. If you have to sit there and

_ agree, smoke a pipe so that its smoke can wreathe about your face,

But try to enter

__ into the spirit of the conversation, to banter back, to exchange idea for
_ idea, to hold your own.

It’s easy to agree. But disagree; that’s easier if you’re honest or

dishonest. If you’re honest, you'll have reasons for disagreeing. If you’re

_ dishonest, then you will have plenty of subterfuges and fictions to rely on.
_ For example: He—Chaucer’s contribution to formalizing the language,

at
ee

L
;

tte “ee .
_ You—I disagree.

+, and making it the common lingo of all the various unconnected tribes,

Gs
=

was the greatest single feat in the development of present-day English.
(Remember those fictions). The momentous work of

__ the Elder Soke, Boon the Bitter, in writing free-hand stories on the in' _Vasion of West Saxony gave impetus to Chaucer’s works, and it is

% ment in trying to hold the price line.

¢ 3 b ot A § sides,

7 a

Sh _in the writings of
rio.
| Hi _ Once gotten, you can spring them in anywhere, HE—The Chinese are sure
__ putting up a terrific struggle in their fight against the power of oppres
doubtful if any other author of his day and age, ever did so much to make
eople want to learn to read. In an age of relative ignorance, Boon the
'B. stands out as an exponent of the finest in man, and as a hander-down
F f culture, none did mucher.
Or else use long words. He—I like the work of the present governYOU—unaccustomed as I am to
sing an example of predestined prognostication, and while I do not wish
appear in a pedantic and perhaps too orthodox light in this matter we
fe discussing, yet one must remember that pragmatism is the old-line
ty belief, and that any supposed attempt to peg the price (how I detest
se vulgarisms) is but a blind-foil behind which can be detected the

iner deceptions of the party in power. |
it Be sophisticated. HE—this work of yours in dividing a county into
three very similar and fair proportions is amazing. YOU—think nothing
it. Or, HE—I’vey just had quintuplets, YOU—how stunning. Or,
1E—your house has fallen in.. YOU—my, what a bother. And we were
Ving a party tomorrow.
_ Or, throw up smoke screens. HE—what do you think of the present
chances of the Liberals to win the forthcoming elections, YOU—+yes and
‘no. HE—what do you mean by that? YOU—there’s a lot to be said for

Sa

Read well and intelligently. A lot of quai-philosophy is contained
in th quack-intelligents who make a living doing mad scribblings for newspapers. This is type of person to read. Get a few ideas.

cy

a mien sion, YOU—what a lovely spring day it is. As Kipper says,

'

ee
i ii* 5
wee,"
tel, rT:

ture of 101 degrees. YOU—I can only say
_ recent illness, was a lot of bother.

ie tb :

Ts Pi be- <j “.
ot Society.

PMs a

/ *

i A,
aT i
U Se
‘ 
tg

SF a
i *

i 5,
" +

Hep) after intermission for what proved to
a be a highly commendable dramatizturns.” The hilarious plot woven
around a group of gossiping ma‘ss trons at a “birthday tea” kept the
audience in fits of laughter.

_ fortyish and flustered, was outstand-|

ing, F ,
a ae 4
bh eee

=

,

oe ~ bly conceived, reconciled the audience, in part, to the noticeable
> defects in the production.

“Give me a day in May,
And I will make hay,
- While the sun doth shine”.

: Change the subject as the last resort. HE—Rither Mr, Churchill’s
illness would seriously impair the workings of the war effort. or else he
has a perfect system whereby he can direct the war even with a temperathat Madge, my wife, in her
: I had to do all the housework.
.. _ These few elementary principles should be of the utmost importance
in giving the engineer that extra intellectual seasoning so important to

and a rondalay,

esr eset Sn as Ne

rectress, deserves congratulations for

her adapt handling of a. large cast
required to dash about here and
there and everywhere on a propertycrowded stage. Her ingenues moved
at times with the precision and facility of an O.T.C. platoon,

| All in all, Delta Gamma, Phi Beta
Phi and the Glee Club proleteriat
merit the highest praise for devoting
their combined energy and talent to
both presentations.

Next Glee Club offering will be the
Arts and Science One-Acter, scheduled to grace the footlights on Wednsday, Feb. 23.

Dal Co-eds Stage

- Continued from page 1

*

ns 
Phi ‘Beta Phi took to the stage]

_ Flaine Hopewell as the hostess,
rty J. C. Mel.
tured in the most polished perform-|
ance of the evening. She looked and] She: “Why in the world did
od her role to perfection. ;
Kay Cox, Frances Clancy and Ann
aunderson contributed poise, clarity
a natural dramatic ability to

Ye
ait,

" (Acadia Athenaeum)

; - = a =) * r Sie Viti ey f ia _ 7 aes a ,
peg eee Sy (Map ar) AE Nes SR see hal eT SEE i
AT TC ; 1 Sa Co bride Tb agg oo A Syne ard
‘ bs - » ts Mot) wes ' . ty
tp ae Seet er lt } wal meget Ase ieee
* *

Outstanding Leadership in Co-Ed
Glee Club, Athletic and Conncil
Fields is Ambitious Aim
of Dark Ass

In the interests of a progressive
executive in every phase of college
activity, the Dalhousie Gazette now
sponsors the lone wolf candidate,
“Tripe”, who will bring to all posts
an experience unparalleled and an
ignorance-unfounded. While it is desirable not to establsh a dictatorship, it is nevertheless worthwhile
to consider the truly important we
posts, such as president of Delta| TTipe’s program for Delta GamGame, the Students’ Council, the|™ would be multifold: free parties
Athletic Club, and the Effective for all the male students on the
Speaking Club, to mention only a|¢@™PuUs, more interest in the male

few. And need we forget the Glee students on the campus, knitting of
Club sweaters and darning of socks for

$i elk all male students on the campus

Delta Gammia: Gawd, what a lot|2"4, in general, being nice to all
of women! Somebody, way back male students on the campus.
when, thought of the brilliant scheme sae
of making Delta Gamma an all Glee Club: There is nothing, absogirls’ organization. By careful per-|!utely nothing, like ham. Tripe, an

usal of the constitution, I see noth-|exponent of the age-old philosophy

ing (very much) to prevent a male}that only by being a Thespian can
such as “Tripe”’ assuming the toga|°ne convince one’s self of one’s own
of president. Tripe has interviewed importance, believes much can be
several girls of Delta Gamma and|™ade with the Glee Club. It has
finds that there isn’t much import- been too exclusive. Therefore, in the
ant outside the society, except per-)imterests of giving expression to the
haps men. Fortified with this know- yearning for same, we advocate the
ledge, nothing is unfeasible now. | eXtension of its activities to every

field.
Olesessions

(1) Why not have small groups
of the Club perform at various so
A recent article discussed the ad- cieties and functions. For example,
vantages of study through the sum-|golden-voiced Dee Hamilton could
mer months. Now such an article| sing at the Engineers’ Ball and the
could only treat barely of one view/Dalhousie Little Greek Revival
on the matter. Since that article| Group could tell a joke in Greek.
was written, this writer has been; At the Law Banquet, Barbara White
urged by various members of the| and Abe Sheffman (who, by the way,
fourth year class to present the/we consider the logical candidate
opposite view. Herein, then, it is in-|for the Glee Club this year) could
tended to sketch the views certain] enact the romantic and touching
fourth year men hold concerning porch-step scenc from “One’s Love
summer study. Is Aging”.

Despite obvious immediate advan- (2) The society should extend its
tages, to hold a summer term is in} work te such outside fields as hosthe. long run an unprofitable venture. | tels, etc., sending down small groups
It is said that the army wants the} who would give petty dancing, singmost doctors it may have as soon aS|ing and so on performances, nothing
possible. Certainly there is a cer-|to interrupt the students from study,
tain advantage in numbers: but ob-| but just a few minutes by each.
viously the first consideration is not
quantity but quality. It is the opin
Athletics: There is much to be

Interfaculty sport is lowdown and
spasmodic; ping-pong fields, so ververdant before, are emptied now.
Tripe would promote sports, and
would make it compulsory for all
members of the faculty to engage
in the stuff, too; the young ones (up
to 65) in basketball and cricket;
the medium-aged ones (up to 85) in
marbles and football; the older ones
(up to 120) in tiddlewinks.

* * *

Students’ Council: The most beau
¥ Pars yA? al ku L .
ye ae va > ' ao . i we aft
TY . ah” 7 ian , 4 -— ”
tise 7 Me ; ea eee ee ie at re | a r 7 2
. : ‘ fe ;
~ " a
E
;
:
‘. B o : &
Se

Page Three Sipe

solution. The program here is tripefold: (1) get out on the street and
join in Salvation Army services; (2)
get up in class and question the
professor’s ideas; (3) actually go to
Club meetings and do your best for
heckle-ocrasy.

Odds and Ends:. French Club—
Sorry, Tripe doesn’t speak French.
Classics Club—Sorry, but we don’t
speak Classics. Students’ Christian
Movement—Ah, here we have something. As Miss Archibald has said,
if you feel queer, join this. And do
we feel queer!

There’s not much more to choose
between this and the Higher Ideals
Mathematics Club or the Engineering Society, but we’d like to get into this, too.

SO COME ON AND GIVE US
| YOUR VOTE.

tiful seat goes to the vice-president. |

While we do not want to take too

much. work on for Tripe,.it is sug-|

gested that he run for president, although, as we said, the most beautiful seat belongs to the Vice-president. Tripe’s qualifications for this
are extreme, to go to far.ends.
once coughed lustily for five minutes
on the Boys’ Parliament, during a
debate on the values of snuff, and
thereby swung the vote which made
it illegal for parents to supply children under five with the stuff.
During a radio program, like the
inimitable McCleave of this page, he

He |

“Poem” on Love

| There’s the wonderful love of a
beautiful maid,

And the love of a staunch true man.
| There’s the love of a baby that’s
| unafraid,
| All have existed since time began.
| But the most wonderful love, the
| love of loves,

liven greater than that of a mother,

Is the tender infinite passionate love

Of one dead drunk for another.

—Ubyssey.

fell asleep during a crucial portion |

of “They Tell Me” and had to be}

told all over again. And, furthermore, in the exciting discussions in
the old (ignatze regime) Arts and
Science, he opened his mouth
wide that a German book was
thrown down it, which proves he can
swallow anything

so

.
ik *

Effective Speaking Club: Tonsils
are in séason. Tripe has actually
been a member of the Club, and in
serious vein once suggested its dis
women take up knitting anyway?”
‘He: “To give them something to!
think about while they are talking.” |||

ion among a number of fourth year
students that their training has been
too rapid to be complete.

Now it will be contended by some
that factual studies of scientific nature may be adequately absorbed as
fast as the student may read, learn,
and pass examinations. This belief
is manifestly false. Science is of
course a study of fact, but a successful study of science depends upon a
certain attitude of mind that is not
arrived at overnight. Although many
students have acquired a more or
less scientific attitude toward their
work by the time they reach an accelerated course, nevertheless certain
who have undergone the summér
term claim an imbalance and improper and insecure grasp of what
they have recently studied. Perhaps
the scientific frame of mind is a
thing to be cultivated continuously
as well as leisurely, or the trouble
may be rather a matter of lack of
confidence and familiarity. The nature of the ill is a matter for argument; its existence should immediately cease.

Among a good number of fourth
year students, then, the opinion
exists that summer term is bad, and
not so much in terms of inconvenience to the university, as of inadequate training for the student.

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday

“OKLAHOMA KID”
“HENRY ALDRIDGE HAUNTS

be]

A HOUSE

Wednesday and Thursday
“SWING SHIFT MAISIE”
“CHANCE OF A LIFETIME”

Friday and Saturday
“WINTER TIME” and SHORTS

Jerry Naugler’s
Orchestra

said for Physical Training. Everyone except those who don’t want to
should be made to take physical
training. Burnie’s classes in folk
dancing are the logical outlet for
every person who comes to college
and thinks they can dance

Or foils, or fence, or. something
of that nature. The plain, ugly, unadulterated fact is that not enough
students are engaging in the stuff.

CASINO

ALL WEEK
STARTING SATURDAY

*

GEORGE

FORMBY

jee BED eos

“GEORGE IN
THE HOME
GUARD”

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“GANGWAY FOR TOMORROW”
Margot and Robert Ryan

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“CRIME ‘SCHOOL”
and “GIRLS ON PROBATION”

EERE 4

HN

Tica

eens i
i ~s A \ \
| Mt | i) \ PRA

i.
.

Q

: i ie es j

Hl a
Wa

ng with folks
Have a “Coke”, says the returned soldier and his friendly
gesture is understood in Winnipeg or Wales, at home or
in far-off places. Around the world Coca-Cola stands for
the pause that refreshes—has become the gesture of good
will, saying Let's be friends,
_ The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

Ss =

‘a

| ORPHEUS

|| Mondady, Tuesday, Wednesday
“DANGEROUS BLONDE”
“HAIL TO THE RANGERS”
cero

| Thursday - Friday - Saturday
\|’ “WHISPERING FOOTSTEPS”

and “FRONTIER LAW”

Capitol
MON. - TUES. - WED.

“MAN FROM
DOWN UNDER”

CHARLES LAUGHTON

*

THORS. - FRIDAY - SAT.

“NO TIME
FOR LOVE”

CLAUDETTE COLBERT
FRED MacMURRAY

It's nawral for popular names ro

Rome acquire iciendiy ablseciition:
That's why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke"'. 671

 
 
 
   
     
   
 
  
   

1%
* a
7h
Pe
; “

F

et k 3

i

y

z
r
=

v

a
‘

 

=e

_ F A “ yes” i _
eel ‘ae: . : wy ad oe > ie P|
han, eae a
ete ey cee)
f ay -e ..
:

is no longer playing in an
ollegiate league, but in what

 

  

; coming from all parts of
Canad 2. Not only this, but some of
these service teams have as many
as 5000 men to pick a team of eight
players from. Dal on the other hand

has approximately 300 from which

to draw, and many of these are
under twenty years of age. Experts

- elaim that the age when an athlete

reaches his peak is twenty-eight and
most of the successful teams, it is
found; have a proper balance of experienced veterans mixed with enthusiastic youngsters. And so even
if college teams are not very conspicious in the win columns, it should
be remembered that they are up
against pretty tough competition,
and all things considered are doing
just about as good a job as could be
expected.
% DS %

This year, due to lack of material,
the ping-pong tables are seldom
used, and to former students, who
were used to the sound of ping-pong
balls being: batted back and forth,
the silence in the men’s locker room
is sometimes startling. However,
last Thursday night the three tables
were in full swing as an enthusiastic mixed-doubles ping-pong tournament was run off with a good number of people participating. -Our
congratulations go to Joyce Hart
and Ferdinand Nunes, winners of the
University mixed-doubles tournament.

ve r : Pee es pres me i ae 7 a . wr ote a mee

n pointed out that Dalhousie teams of “yesteryear” were
| than the present college teams, Perhaps there is some
ion for that point of view, and yet, competition in pre-war days
t in the same class with competition as it now is. Five years ago,
Jal basketball team had to do was to compete against a group of
syer's: now it has for competition teams made up of players from
Canada as well as several stars from the United States.

 

We have been approached by
several people about the matter of
running a men’s singles and doubles
tournament. Well, we would be glad
to organize a tournament if there
were enough balls, but to run a successful tournament we would have
to have between eight and ten balls,
If any person or persons would like
to see a ping-pong tournament staged and had a few balls, we would be
grateful for any donations or we
would be very glad to buy them for
tournament use. In fact, to help
along the cause we will begin by
donating our single, infinitely precious ping-pong ball (which has been
put away and saved for some months
as if awaiting some special occasion)
to the perspective tournament.

, i ee

To badminton players: there is
now a substitute for badminton birds
on the market which can be obtained
in Halifax sporting goods stores for
50c. These substitutes have no cork
on the ends but are made up of
woollen material and are simply
called badminton wool balls. They
are somewhat heavier than the regular birds and are not widely used,
although they are used to a large
extent in some places. The substitutes will last longer than the
shuttlecocks. Some people wanting a
little practise or a little exercise and
finding birds hard to obtain might
find the substitutes worthwhile. We
give this suggestion for whatever it
is worth.

 

Hart, Nunes Combination Winner

 

The men’s locker room in the gymnasium came to life last

| Gen Downed By H.M.C.S. King’s

Thursday night as the University Mixed-Doubles ping-pong
‘ tournament was staged with twenty-eight people taking part in
the matches. Honors of the evening went to Joyce Hart, seen
__in the above photo after receiving her prize, and to Ferdinand

 

Hie ’

Nunes, who is being presented, with his silver cup by ping-pong

manager, Bill Pope.

Competition was keen throughout
and the matches were enthusiastically played. One of the hardest
fought games of the’ evening was
when Bob Jeffery and M. Leonard
won a close decision from Dave
Shetler and B. Campbell by scores
of 20-22, 21-15, 21-16. The feature
match of the evening, however, was
probably between Nunes and Hart
vs. Zappler and Pat Hollis, the latter of whom is girlS ping-pong manager and who did much to make the
tournament a success.

_ While Nunes and Hart were winning their matches in the top half
of the tournament draw, George
‘Smith and Mary Robbin combined
to win matches in the lower brackets

 

 

Physical Activities
Schedule

The folowing Physical Activities
will be held at the times listed
elow.

Basketball—Tuesday and Thursday
10-11 and 11-12 a.m.

Fencing—Mondays 38.30-4.30 p.m.

Boxing—Friday 3.00-4.30 p.m.

Ju-Jitsu and Close-Combat Fighting
Saturday—11-12 a.m.

Beginner’s Swim and Life Saving
Monday and Wednesday-9-10 p.m.
at Y.M.C.A.

Gymnastics—Wednesday 10-11 a.m.

en , y °
i - over such fine players ae Samwnt and ee iss Tennis—Friday 11-12 a.m.
| Sterling, Hoslin and Lewis, and] 5° | Dancing—Thursday

_ Jeffery and Leonard in order to win|_ 4:29-5.30 p.m.

E if

 
      
  

their way to the final round. The
Winning combination of the evening,
however, proved to be Joyce Hart of

 

 

Badminton Instruction—Monday 11-12 a.m.

Other classes to be arranged later

eas and 2 dinand Nunes of|@nd new classes will start when in, ‘Trinidad as they defeated Smith and terest warrants it.—B. G. Ralston.
_ Robbin 21-18, 21-15 to win the match

 

4

i
,
“a

    
  
  
   
   

“Give me a match, Bill.”
“Here at 34."
“Well, can you beat that? I’ve

“S’ too bad; give me back my

| match,”

biker te to ee

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Last Wednesday night in the regular basketball game
H.M.C.S. King’s succeeded in eking out a 37-33 win over the
Dal Tigers. It was a fast moving game all the way through
with the collegians facing the Kingsmen every inch of the way.
It was the most exciting game the Dal players have had this
season and the team showed a great improvement over previous
games. “Burnie” Ralston was the high scorer of the game,
making 19 of Dalhousie’s 33 points. Farquhar and Greene came
next for Dal with four points each.

— =< The Tigers were a bit over-anxious
P ° in the first half and threw away

resenting ee many passes and possible baskets.
The play was fairly even in the half
with the Tigers leading Kings most
of the way. The collegians were
leading at half time by 1 point. The
scoring began early in the second
half and the naval officers surged
ahead. But a determined offensive
by Dal forwards Hart, Ralston and
Green soon chopped down their lead.
The spectators were tense during the
last five minutes when the Dalhousie
attack threatened to swamp the
Kingsmen. But the height of their
opponents was too much and the collegians came out on the short end
of a 37-333 score.

It was a thrill-packed game and
many a Dal supporter yelled himself
hoarse during the last half.

On Friday the 18th the gold and
black striped Tigers meet the garnet
and gold of Mount Allison at Sackville. The players are confident of
upholding Dalhousie’s end well
that game.

 

. . one of the best known, best
liked, and best athletes on the Dal
Campus — Marty MacDonald — who
has played an important role on
many hockey ahd football teams during his five years at college.

in

 

Lineup:

SSS SSS si

Dalhousie: Dunlop, Pope, Hart 2;
falston 19;
Giffen 2;

Knight,
McKelvey 2;

Farquhar 4;
Vautour,
Greene 4.
Kings: Howard, Segal, Preston 6;
‘MacFarlane, Sweatman, Greene 10,
Dawson 12; Aurts 8.
Referee:

Marty originally comes from Cape
Breton and obtained his early education in North Sydney schools. In
Halifax, St. Pats. was his High
School and there he played left wing
for two years on the school hockey
team.

“Peaches” Ruven.

 

    

  
  
 
 
     
   

 
 

From St. Pats he went to Saint
Mary’s College where he graduated

in 1939 with an Arts degree. During
his years at college he started play
 

 

 

You Win The |

Trophy, Sepkic
ing football—a game at which he ; Wes eees es
really excels—and in no small way
was responsible for St. Mary’s winning the Nova Scotia Intercollegiate
Football Title. He also played
hockey on the teams which won top
honors in the City Intercollegiate

League.

Marty came to Dal in 1939, completed his Pre-Med. course, and is
now in fourth year Medicine. After
his internship he plans to enter the
Army as an MD.

For three years Marty played on
the Tigers football team and this is
his fourth season with Dal’s senior
hockey squad. In football he has é
played on two City Championship} #
teams, which played off for the Noval :
Scotia Title with Caledonia and

This loving cup conveys
our praise, for finding

us a treasure.

Its stronger point prevents
delays, its smoothness

 

ee gives us pleasure.
S.F.X. respectively, losing on | : SS
7 Pp Ys g on both g Oe Mirado guarantees to
occasions to those teams by close : please, and all its
margins. In 1941 he captained Dal’s| 3 #8: claims we’ve tested.
; Pp = ea) °
senior hockey squad and in all of his| # = = It does the work with
four seasons with the club he has| eae Seater ease, and
23% sends us home more rested.
been a capable forward and con-| 223% . ae
: 2g 5c. each—less in quantities
sisent scorer, Se eae

 

Certified with a money-back
Besides competing in sports he i anata
also takes an active part in extracurricula activities. Last year he
,was a member of the Students’
Council as well as being on the
Malcolm Honor Award Committee.
He is also a member of the Medical
Chi Phi Fraternity.

 
 

‘Having taken a ‘prominent part on
many winning teams one would think
there was not much room for disappointment, but Marty claims his

| greatest disappointment in sport was
losing in that unforgettable Caledonia game to the rugged miners BAAN IED ra =
from Cape Breton by a score of 3-0. Te EN)

PENCILS

ARE GUARANTEED ©

STRONGER, smo
lake OTHER,

 

 

    
  

   
  
  

For Sporting
Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

Quality Shoes
For Fall . .

   
 
 
 
       
    

Compliments of

Wallace Bros.

Limited

PIANOS — CHURCH ORGANS

SHEET MUSIC -— RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

Call on
®

   
   
  

  

   
 
 
    
  
  
    
 

  

  

  
  
  
 

  
  
  
  

415 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. 8. . ;
456 -460 BARRINGTON ST.

     
  
    
  
 
     
    

      
    
 
 
    
  

     

 

} The best
chocolate made

 

BRAIN WORK-OUT

How well do you know Dal’s sports heroes and athletic events?
Below you will find clues containing descriptions and facts of

different, well-known sport personalities. Some clues will be harder

be a key word that will reveal

the person’s identity and which could only apply to our chosen stars.
Give yourselves 10 points for each elue you unravel. Aill set!

Let’s go!

Clue 1.—Versatile athlete: plays rugby, basketball, swims, tennis,
ping-pong, badminton. 5 ft. 11 in.; blond; arts student; plans
to study law. (Picked off six firsts at Christmas).

Clue 2.—Seience student; came to Dal from B.H.S.; runner-up in
badminton tournament last year; short, energetic; sometimes
called “Flossy”.

than others, but somewhere there will

Clue 3.—Law student whose home is in Glace Bay; came to Dal from
Acadia; centre heeler on football team; good place kicker;
?
stocky, rugged and hardworking player on the football team
aan

mer dg TnL
First Co-ed: It looks like rain.
Second Ditto: Yeh, but they call
it coffee.
(Queen’s University Journal)

 

Campus Clippings,

Continued from page 1

L.S.8. Drive Starts at McMaster
The National I.S.S. Committee has |
asked the students of McMaster Uni- |
versity to raise the equivalent of one |
dollar pag student. An objective of |
$1,000 has been set. |
at | Four Experienced Barbers
Then there was the C.O.T.C. man
who allegedly replied, when asked |

 

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

eres

    
  
     

  

by the Sergeant-Major where the |
balance of his rifle was: “I don’t| THE
know, sir. This is all they gave me.” FLOWE
—Varsity. | R SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
Phone 3-7133 HALIFAX

‘What is home without a mother ?’ |
said the private to his girl on the|
‘phone,

‘I am, tonight,’ she sighed.

—_—__

—Arizona Contact.

A New Residence. for Queens
Queens University hopes to build
a new one-million-dollar Students |

 

Union and Men’s Residence after the (|

warm Plans are being formulated to |
this end, although they have by no|
means reached conclusion. |

The Carleton

in

 

 

 

Halifax, Canada

Host to the travelling
publie since 1858

 

A Good Address

 

   
 
 

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 Spring Garden Road
38-9754

_ We Cater ‘oe Collegiens

 
  
  
  
   

 

 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone 3-6881

Follow the rest of the boys
for your Footwear to

SHANE’S SHOE STORE

397 BARRINGTON ST.  3-9144

O

DALHOUSIE
WELCOME

TO

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Read

C)

 

'

 
