|
by

aed Mota First Great Benefactor

ne | becoming exhausted, he turned to teaching and taught for

 

  

yee

“i influence jin educating

i,
why
= a ~/.‘@ Lae

+ ae

iu

.
id
“_
1

_ University at a time when its finances were at a very low

that same stock which Sir Walter Scott described as “our

but poor in the sense in which a large majority of the

energy could not overcome, subjected him to no priva_ ories that could not be recalled with pleasure and transdelight in taking his children there.

learning” to quote Milton, he abandoned printing and en
a . distinguished Canadian statesman and grandfather of
ca ‘Dr. John Bell at present practicing in New Glasgow.

_ Church Academy in Halifax
 maties—then as its Principal.

_ taste for good literature.

———— *

By William D. Forrest

George Munro will always be remembered as Dalhousie’s principal benefactor for he came to the rescue of the

ebb and when the closing down of the institution was seriously considered. He was the first man who ever gave
any considerable sum to a Canadian University.

Munro was born on November 12th, 1825, at Millbrook
in Pictou County. He sprang from good sturdy Scotch
stock—the stock that has made Pictou County famous—

really excellent Scotch people.”
George Munro has always been depicted as a poor boy,

eminent men in all generations have been poor. He was
brought up in a simple house where the necessities of life
were always available but where the luxuries were no
doubt scant—a home where they feared God and honoured
the King. His father was a successful farmer. He was
one of a family of ten, four boys and six girls. His youth
presented no hardships which family affection and family

tions which he did not cheerfully accept and left no memmitted with pride. He visited his home annually and took

At Millbrook he received the ordinary school education
that all country boys received in those days.
_ At the age of twelve he entered the office of the Pictou Observer to learn the printing business. He remained
here two years and probably “enflamed with the study of

tered a school in New Glasgow, conducted by a very scholarly Scotsman, a university man, Basil Bell by name.
Incidentally, Basil Bell was the father of Mr. A. C. Bell, a

Munro remained here for two years when his funds

two years. At the expiration of this period he again took
up his studies under Bell, who at this time had become
transferred to Pictou Academy. Munro remained at Pictou Academy for two years when he was appointed to the
New Glasgow school as succcessor to Mr. Bell. After
three years in this position he was called to the Free
first as teacher in Mathe
He filled this position for a period of five years. During

this time, along with his other duties, he took the course pre_ seribed for candidates for the Presbyterian ministry.

He never became a clergyman. Rumor has it that he

_ preached one sermon and made a solemn vow never to renew

the ordeal.

At this time Nova Scotia boasted of no less than nine colleges; the Roman Catholics had two, the Presbyterians three,
the Baptists, the Methodists, the Episcopalians and the Congregationalists, each one; all more or less at enmity with one another. Interested in education and having no sympathy with
religious bickerings, Munro decided to quit teaching in his nat
ive Province and try his luck in the United States.

In 1856 Me settled in New York city. He was at first em
_ ployed by the Appletons who conducted a large publishing es_ tablishment at that time.

t A man of good sense, sound judgment and unlimited capacity for work, he was in a comparatively short time in a position to start business on his own ac
Ts _ count,

This was the age of the dime novel. Munro conceived the

_ idea of giving the publie sound literature at low prices. His

cheap publications revolutionised the book trade of America.
The Seaside Library, established in 1867 contained all the best
fiction, essays and history, and is said to have had a wonderful
the masses and developing in them a
The New York Nation of that date
referred to him as a man of excellent literary judgment, a

 

 

  
      

Issued by Authority of The Students’ Council
\ \ a ata \\ i y ‘ \
\ \ \ * as \\ | \ Nit \

\ Wyo \
\ \ Vy"
\\

: \\

successful “innovator” and predicted great success for the future of his enterprise.
As an “innovator” his career did not end with the Seaside

Library. When he built his publishing house on Vandewater
Street it was the highest building in New York City—eight
stories. He might also be called the father of the skyscraper.

Again, he built the first modern apartment house in New
York city. This building faces Central Park and bears the
name “Dalhousie”. By this time Munro was wealthy.

Always deeply interested in the welfare of his native Province and particularly in its educational institutions, George
Munro, in the year 1879 made his first contribution to Dalhousie. This was on a scale hitherto unheard of in Canada and
was later followed up by equally generous gifts from the same
source.

Dalhousie was at this time in desperate financial cireumstances. Talk of closing down was heard on every side. Munro
saved the situation. The writer has among his papers two letters written by Principal Grant of Queen’s University, Kingston, to a friend in Halifax. During his fourteen years residence in this city, Principal Grant had been a warm friend and
supporter of Dalhousie. He was a most active member of the
Governing Board.

Writing from Kingston on October 22nd, 1880, Principal
Grant says, “You simply take away my breath, I have just read
your letter and do:-not know what to say first. Munro must be

(Continued on last page)
 

; 7 1e°% 4
2.00-2.30
2.30-3.00

3.00-4.00 |

4.00-5.30
5.30-6.00
6.00-7.00

Munro Day Program

Afternoon

Annual basketball game, boys vs. girls

Boys vs. girls Archery Tournament

Quiz program
Square dancing, Big Gym

Sing-Song

Supper served in lower Gym, 25c per person

Evening

9.00-9.45
Speakers: Judge Archibald for Alumni
Mrs. Giffin, for Alumnae
Introduction of new Council
Presentation of Gold D’s
Pan-Hellenic Award
Malcolm Honor Award

10.00-1.00 Dance, Naugler’s 10-piece Orchestra

Munro Day Awards

D. A. A, C.—

Gold D’s: Lawrence Maclvor

Gordon Hart
Dick Currie
Les McLean

George Smith

Silver D: Bill Hagen

Glee Club Gold D’s—
Barbara White

Barbara Sieniewicz
Art Hartling
Bill Hagen

D.G.A.C. Gold D’s—

Kay Cox

Laurie Bissett
Laura Mackenzie
Pat Hollis

Anne Saunderson

Anita Rosenblum

 

 

Council D’s—

Sue Morse

Jean MacDonald
Ken Mackinnon
Tom Patterson
Henrik Tonning
Ann Walker
Chas. O’Connell

Gazette Gold D’s—
Jim McLaren
Bill Pope
Boris Funt

Don Corringham

Debating D’s—

Sodales:
H. Seott Gordon

Girls Debating:
Anita Rosenblum
Terry Monaghan
The Malcolmn Honor Award

The Pan-Hellenic Award

The Connelly Shield

————

7.15-9.00 Glee Club musical comedy, “Masquerade”

 

‘=

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
   

 

oe

 

| a all the things we love the best,
- There is to us no greater:
The ties that bind us to college days
No power can ever sever;
_ For we'll be true to Dalhousie,
And the Black and Gold forever.

_ Tune ev’ry heart to sing for joy,
And banish ev’ry sorrow;

- The boys and girls’who leave to-day
Will build her up tomorrow;
We’re all in love with our college dear,
The pride of our endeavour;
And we'll be true to Dalhousie,
And the Black and Gold forever.

When we have left these dear old halls,
Upon our graduation, |
Another throng will sing our song

Of loyal adoration;

The memory of our college life

Shall never fade, no, never;

We'll all be true to Dalhousie,

And the Black and Gold forever.

 

ENGINEERS’ SONG

Transits, levels, tapes and chains,
Engineers! _

Dynamos, bridges, turbines, cranes,
Engineers!

Who was it drained away the flood—
Dammed the Nile to save the mud—
Engineers of Dalhousie. /

Who build walls to balk the sea—
Engineers!

Who drink their fill of T. N. T—
Engineers!

Who pulled Jonah out of the whale
Built the ark that Noah sailed—
Engineers of Dalhousie.

Who really love the girls the most—
Engineers!

Men who do and never boast—
Engineers!

Who was it put the heat in H——
Slammed the door and rang the bell—
Engineers of Dalhousie!

Who'll go to Heaven when they die—
Engineers!

Who'll grow wings and learn to fly—
Engineers!

Who will keep the Golden Gate,

_And swear at those who come in late—
Engineers of Dalhousie!

 

DALHOUSIE DREAM GIRL
By Don Murray

All through the day, all through the night,

I keep on thinking of you.

While you’re away, nothing seems right,
I feel so lonely, so blue,

Chorus:
Dalhousie dream girl of mine
You are my dream girl divine.

Love me forever and I'll love you too,
Always be true, Dream Girl to you.
Dalhousie dream girl of mine,
Thoughts of you thrill me like wine.

ake me one promise that you'll be forever |
Dalhousie dream girl of mine.

WE LOVE TO SING AT DALHOUSIE

TO OLD DALHOUSIE

Oft as I’ve sat in the twi-light gloom
Reveries flooding my sorrowful soul

Thoughts straying far from the shadowy room
Seeking a friend all my woes to console
Wishing for home and friends far away
Memories of you were the solace found

You dear old college I greet you today

Still in my heart you with glory are crowned.

Chorus: \
Back to old Dalhousie as in days of old—
Back to Alma Mater and the Black and Gold—
The memories of our college growing brighter
year by year—
Here’s to old Dalhousie ever to her children dear.

THE TIGER TEAM

See them plunging down to the goal,
See the Tigers banners stream,
Hear the crashing echoes roll,

As we cheer for the Tiger team.
Rah! Rah! Rah!

Chorus:

Cheer ’till the sound wakes the blue hills around

Make the scream of the north wind yield

To the strength of the yell that our hearts know so well
When the Tiger team takes the field

Rah! Rah!

With our hearts in our song we march march along
While the knell of our foes is tolled.

Oh! The victory is sealed when the team takes the field,
And we cheer for the Black and Gold.

Hark! Dost thou hear that rousing strain,
That’s Dalhousie’s battle scream,

Whoop ’er up just once again,

As we cheer for the Tiger team.

Rah! Rah! Rah!

 

—And here’s another verse to the immortal

“MY GIRL’S A CRACKERJACK”

My man’s from old Pine Hill,
He never pays a bill

Just robs his old man’s till,
He runs the whiskey still;
And when the old man drops,
He’s going to brew the hops,
How the, ete.

 

GAUDEAMUS IGITUR

(An international song of freedom among students
in European universities, in tribute to whom it is
here inserted.) 1

Gaudeamus igitur, juvenestrum sumus;
Gaudeamus igitur, juvenestrum sumus;
Post juventutem juventutem:

Post molestan senectutem,

Nos habebit humus;

Nos habebit humus;

Vivat Academia, vivant Professores!
Vivat Academia, vivant Professores!
Vivat membrum quodlibet,

Vivat membrum quodlibet,

Semper sint in flore!

Semper sint in flore!
 

 

(ee ee Soe

  
 

ig to die. feciteaibe t es is too good for this world. His first
‘saved Dalhousie. His second will turn the tide of ambitin to the large institutions up
1ousie.” And again on November
10th of the same year, “I am more than rejoiced at the pro
os ‘spects as far as Dalhousie is concerned. You know I put a good

ce nf work, eee a and money into Dalhousie, and of course,
wh ’s treasure etc., etc. Munro—what can we do for him.
! not that Degrees have become so cheap, I would propose that we should give him a D.D. or LL.D. for L.-S.-D. a
mural crown he should have. Certainly he should be put on the
Board of Governors.”

Besides his gifts to Dalhousie, he was a liberal contributor
to all worthy objects in his adopted city. He was a large supporter of Dr. John Hall’s Church—5th Avenue Presbyterian,
which he attended regularly but always refused to accept any
office. Among his employees in the publishing business were
to be found a large number of the sons of Pictou. His home
was always open to Nova Scotians and Dalhousians were par
‘welcome. He was a man of quiet unassuming character, reserved almost to the point of shyness. He had no
desire to bask in the sunshine of full recognition. Honorary
ae complimentary banquets and the like had no appeal for

him. He declined an invitation to accept a seat on the Governing Sica of the College.

 

 

The soul of the man was modest. He never sought the
limelight of life’s stage. He leaned backwards in his dislike of
all methods of self advertising. He despised and abhorred
hypocrisy and opportunism. His word was as good as his bond.
His gifts to Dalhousie were prompted solely through patriotic
ideals, his love for the land of his birth, and his great interest
in the cause of education in these Maritime Provinces of Can
ada.
% * a *

MUNRO DAY

On July 9, 1881, the Governors of Dalhousie University
dealt with a petition from the students, asking that each year
there be a holiday named “The George Munro Memorial Day”
in celebration of the great benefactions of George Munro mentioned above. The petition was granted, and the third Wednesday of January each year was set aside as “The George Munro
Memorial Day.” In the course of years the name has been
shortened to “Munro Day.” In the year 1928 “Munro Day”
was celebrated on March 9, and President A. Stanley Mackenzie
reviewed the history of Dalhousie’s benefactors. The special
guest on that occasion was the Right Honourable R. B. Bennett,
who was referred to as one of our great benefactors himself,
and the cause of other notable benefactions. Since that time,
the names of all our benefactors have been associated with
“Munro Day.” In 1938 the Senate decided that in future Munro
Day should be celebrated on the second Tuesday in March.

The Quizzical Mr. X

Hilarity, prizes and brainwork will be the order of
the day, in the quizthat starts the proceedings off with
a bang, tomorrow at 38 o’clock in the afternoon.
“Lauchie” MacLellan, the master of ceremonies will be
dishing out prizes right and left to those whose num
_ bers happen to be drawn. The questions will be asked

by a distinguished personage whose name cannot be
divulged because of repercussion on his family in occupied Europe.

This “Mr. X” is being brought to Dalhousie after
much trouble and expense. He has escaped from his
native country and this marks his first public appear
_

ance in Canada. He is a noted authority on quizology,
brain functions and surface anatomy.

High spots of the quiz will be several “Oscar’’ questions, which will be worth a goodly sum of money, if
they are answered correctly. The prizes promise to be
both unique and practical, and ‘“‘Lauchie” expects to
hand a lot of them out to the lucky winners.

So, come early gang, and start er rolling with a
bang. When your old lucky number comes up, the
prizes will be confoozin’ but amozin’. If you feel lucky
come along... if not—come anyway.

Cape Breton Hoedown!

In a surprise announcement, the Munro Day Committee has announced Dal patrons of the rug-cutting
arts will have a chance to extend their activities into a
new field of operations Munro Day afternoon, when for
the first time in many years, if ever, square dances
will be run off in the Gym. This novel feature will give
spectators an opportunity to work off much of the
excess steam that usually accumulates in the afernoon,

and should be a spirited performance, or as one campus

Dal Players

A word about the stage show, which is suitably
titled, ‘Masquerade’. It is a Musical Comedy, under
the auspices of the Dalhousie Glee Club, and the Dalhousie Music Club. “Masquerade” is directed by
Harry Zappler, who has excelled himself, in his efforts
to make a huge success of it. The play was written
jointly, by Mile. Lafeuille, Ted Shields, Don Corringham, and Harry Zappler. The cast is made up of all
the leading talent of Dalhousie, and numbers over
AO, including in starring roles, Don Corringham, Kay
Archibald, Doug Rogers, Art Hartling, Barbar Sieniewicz, Dorothy Hamilton, Mary Bissett, Elaine Hope
personality put it, “more fun than two barrels of...
monkeys.” |

Square sets are a novelty to most collegians, but
everyone will start off on an equal “footing’’, and with
a little practice and a good caller, should be able to
“promenade” and “dig for the oyster” like a true Ecum
Secumite in no time. The dance is scheduled for 4 to
5,00 p.m. Immediately after the Quizz, chairs will be
laid away, the floor will be cleared, and every Dalhousian with a spark of life will be away to The
Square Dance!

Masquerade

well, Ted Shields, Betty O’Toole, and as guest stars,
Irene Spence and Set. Herb LeFrois.

“Masquerade” is a step into a new field of play
productions, as far as Dal is concerned. Musical shows
have not been an unknown feature in the past, but to
my knowledge, there has not been one the assumed
the proportions of this show, with original script, and
the amount of work entailed in its production. So,
may I say, that congratulations are in order for Harry
Zappler and the co-authors of the play, and to the cast
for making possible such a production.

“LAUCHIE”

 
