 
      

STUDENT PUBLICATION
FOUNDED JAN. 25, 1869

Nee CANADA’S OLDEST
Peon OUR 75th ANNIVERSARY

    
  
   
   
     
         
 
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   

   
 

—- VOL. LXXVI
Vergil Discussion At

 
  

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 28, 1944 No. 12

A LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT ON OUR 75th ANNIVERSARY To Be Presented On

Pe ; Classics Club ) The news that the Dalhousie Gazette is ; There is a long editorial, in the issue of Febru- they should be serviceable to the student, “either Munroe Day .
. a wthrisinatio turn at of em celebrating its seventy-fifth anniversary has | ary 5, 1876, which describes the shape erucation in some of his particular studies, or to satisfy
enthusiastic turno 
* Wig esiglt U . caused me to look at the early files of the pub- | was taking in the Province of Nova Scotia, and | his literary appetite.”

Dare. marked ase shicendly ean lication. , deplores it: One may say in general that the Gazette reor fee yen te : _ The early Gazette was a serious paper. It “The total number of students in Arts in garded itself as a part of the serious press of
* pre ens e eo ae was obviously written by readers of books and this Province is about two hundred and fifty, the community. It frequently addressed itself
nell, Henry Street. to the Legisiature and always to the public con
a || of wh 1 hundred attend Dal
ace . : for readers of bogks. (One notices, in the ad- of whom nearly one hundred atten alre cer re Cotes pantaly Ot 8 housie. The rest are divided among five science.

~

 

 

The Dalhousie Glee Club collaborating with the Dalhousie Musie Club
under the leadership of Harry Zappler is presenting a musical comedy
on Munroe Day. This is the first
time in ten years that a musical
production has been attempted at
Dalhousie. We must have co-operation,

A meeting for all those interested
in acting, singing, dancing, prompting, writing, making costumes, etc
will be held Sunday at 2.30 in Mr.
Bedford’s Studio, Halifax Conservatory of Music, Spring Garden Road.

Mixed Chorus Featured

One of the main features of this
comedy is the chorus, comprised of
both male and female voices. Here’s
a chance for “The Med Harmonizers”
to come out in the open. If your
room-mate is driving you crazy with
his vocal antics, send him to us. We
guarantee to put him) through his
paces one night a week.

  

4: . . vertisements of the 70’s and 80’s, that there

Pe Gr oe henapaton were in that period at least eight book shops in denominational colleges, giving an average
by a paper on: the Fall of Troy, the small city of Halifax. As early as 1869, of about thirty to each college, or eight to
re Sad Tein Mar- three book shops were advertising their wares.) each elass. Very little competition can exRereeee. chp rea oy BERS Ts ist among so small a number.”

rh , : : The Editors also had very serious. views
Pee beer ee oe about schools and colleges, and about reforms On January 11, 1877, an editorial suggests

i ation. he establishing |{that the College Library be catalogued, and
ae: Taasica | 1 education. They denounced t catalog
ure aonpetae Co ae ef sectarian schools in the Canadian Northwest. |{speaks of the dual purpose of library books;

The present Editors of the Gazette are to be
congratulated on celebrating this seventy-fifth
anniversary. They look back on a very proud
tradition.

  
  
 

CARLETON STANLEY,
President.

 

rc latest translation of Vergil’s
“Georgics”. The translation was
then criticized by various members
of the Club. A well-informed panel
of experts consisting of Dr. A. K.
Griffin, Dr. Roebuck and Fit. Lieut.
\,  Cattley presented a clear picture of
the poet’s life and times, and was).
besieged by a steady flow of ques
suecess by reading portions, of the

a lea a
————— — +--+ ————

———

FORSAN ET HAC OLIM MEMINISSE JUVABIT,.

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

ee ere

 

J
A
Wo
»

 

entre on the life and works of

tions from all sides.

‘The President expressed his hope
that an equally enthusiastic gathering would come to next month’s
meeting when the discussion will

Cicero. One of the members had
volunteered to read a paper on the
“Catilinian Conspiracy”, he said.

A light supper brought the highly
profitable and entertaining evening
to a close.

 

Alumni Smoker
Is Acclaimed

   

VOL, Ff.

Halhousie Gollege Gazette,

——

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 25, 1869.

 

SALUTATORY. ty
Tue first issue of our paper has appeared, and is now

beforé you. Previous to introducing you to its contents,
we crave your attertion for a little, while we endeavow

 

HALIFAX, N.S., JANUARY. 25, 1869.

a erence ements ee een pene
2. The king speaks thus, and from the cliff

 

That steep, o’erhangs the boundless main,
He throws into the boiling gulf

The goblet for the brave to gain.

**T ask again, who is so brave

To dive into this raging wave.”

3. The squires and gallant knights around
Are mute and silent, all remain

And view the storm-tossed sea, astound,
And no one shall the goblet gain. .

The third time now speaks out the king,

The choral work is in charge of
Mr. Bedford, the very talented Director of the Halifax Conservatory
of Music. Mlle. LaFeuille, Harry
Zappler, Don Corringham and Ted
Shields are compiling the. script.
The dancing is being directed by
Miss Leonard, Physical Instructress
at Dalhousie.

Great interest is being shown in
this undertaking and our available
talent so far includes, D. Hamilton,
Kay Archibald, June Grant and Peter
Donkin, all well-known entertainers.

to state the aim of our paper, and the manner in which it ‘« Will none the golden goblet bring?” Class Of A4. Putting
; , 1 aa F i ‘ a . . . ‘
Members of ee Claes aes will be conducted. Its aim is two-fold, viz: the cultivafreely dard ageetiel ae ak ia tion of a literary taste among ourselves, and the establish: Nhe Goh ge a8 ot Out Year Book
« ° . . 3 / a 25
ara ‘Adour We cultion, The ment of an organ in which free expression can be aa Stee ve <i hobs Gat ete aie, ‘dhe The’ lon quedtienable hte GF ae
purpose of the event was to re- not only to our OMe sentiments, but to those of other: Unbuckles then his belt and mantle, Dal Year Book was finally. cleared
r establish contacts between Dalhous- who may interest themselves cB) Pur PEOR TSA and Eree While all the knights and ladies’ gaze, up Tuesday morning in Room 3 of
Sy ians past and present, and the al- perity. The prosperity of a University is the prosperity And eye the youth with wondrous praise; the Arts Building when the Class:
| most unanimous opinion of those ofa Nation. The training and mental tastes formed there dea 4 | ; of ’44 decided to undertake the pub\ who attended was that the meeting éxtend their influence to succeeding generations, , and re : ‘ Wen Peeks ‘ae oat lishing of the perennial “Pharos”.
' , whe . + a6 ‘ ; i ? Vy ound, 4 . ret hee ‘ ; F
. . . : We Ae ; ‘ ‘ ; ery Cer hs, but Laura McKenzie was chosen to
Entertainment oe en. The Dalhousie College Gazetie is to be conducted Come gurgling back with roaring sound; a the Lastencetand photographic
7 a ae rast ilies oe mainly by students, under graduates, and graduates of oe rumbling roar they eotite: department. Appointments have been
n e Z ‘ ‘ owe . 7 o. 190° a . < eo & . ~
| faculty songs, some of which present the College. Several gentlemen of known ability, have: DERENG POD) te BU y ee oP giooNs: arranged with a local photographer.
students had never heard before. kindly. ecu " a a its oe roa. : 6. Abd babbling up it secthes'and onze: The taney a ed
Other songs rendered during the eve- are PROFESSORS YALL and UESHLL, Wik WM. YouNe and As water thrown on raging fire; sent a gift to the University uj
i ning ranged from “Drink To Me Hon, Mr. Howe. Our first issue, we must plead, labours And up to heaven the white-spray soars, graduation resulted in the appointOnly With Thine Eyes” to “Pistol under some disadvantages, owing to our not having re- As floods on floods press higher. ment of “presentation of a commit
   
  
  

2
%..,

#

|
|

>

 

 
  
 
  

P

_ quality of the stories was judged by

Packin’ Mama”.

Lengthy speeches were conspicuous by their absence at the affair,
while the few talks that were heard
were very short, informal and entertaining. Those who attended were
offered a wealth of cigars and
cigarettes, and refreshments were
also served.

Tall Story Contest
‘Highlight of the evening was a
tall story contest in which Chief
Justice Doull,, Dr. Corston and J. A.

- Hanway, K.C., participated. The

a sensational new discovery presented before the public for the first time
which automatically indicated the

merits of the story. The contest

which was marked by extremely
keen competition resulted in a victory for Dr. Corston, who was there‘upon presented with the first prize
‘of two cigars. The other participants
received consolation prizes of 2

 

ceived in time, several interesting articles from among
the ablest of our contributors. They will appear, however, th our next issue. Commencing under such favourable auspices we trust our readers and subscribers will
find our columns interesting as well as instructive.

Our annual subscription has been fixed at the low price
of Firry Cents. The paper will only contain four pages
at present, should however, a good circulation be realized,
it will be a strong inducement to add other four pages.

THE DIVER.

4 BALLAD.
(Translated from the German.) _ »

- BY A STUDERT.

1. “Who shall venture, squire or knight
Into the deep abyss to dive ?
A goblet gold shall be his right;
E’en now ’t has sunk beneath the ware;
; : Who e’er shall bring ’t to me again
He shall the golden goblet win.”

Andit will never cease-to rave,
As wave gives birth to s¢quent wave.

7. But now, at last, its dark rage spent—

Dark-seeming, through the foaming wave,

The yawning chasm shows its vent.
As if it led to hell’s deep cave..

The waves roll down the dark abyss,
Descending, roar and foam and hiss.

8. Quickly, before the waves return

The youth to God confides his way,
Amazement holds the breathless crowd,—
Already he’s beneath the spray, ay
While strongely o’er the swimmer brave,
Now seen no more, the billows rave.

9. And silence reigns above the deep,

Its hidden depths groan loud and fell,

And one can hear from lip to lip,

“ Brave-hearted youth, farewell, farewell!

It hoarse and hoarser foams aloud —

While dread suspense congéals the crowd.
(To be continued.)

tee” consisting of Inez Sunderland,
Joan Archibald and Tom Rogers.

tions for life officers of the Class
of *44:

Hon. President—Dr. Dixie

Hon. Pres.—Dr. Dixie Pelluet

Life Pres—Larry Sutherland

Vice-Pres.—Jean MacDonald

Secty.-Treas.—Sue Morse

Further on the agenda was the discussion of plans for a Convocation
Ball and the election of a committee comprising Anne Mackley, George
Hawkins, Ewart Burke, Ruth MacInnes, Clarey Fraser and Bill Hagen.
ee

PLEASE NOTE
The Dal S.C.M. invites you to a
sing-song at Shirreff Hall this Sunday, January 30, at 8.30 p.m.

 

Faculty Quiz

Next week will imaugurate the

Following are the results of the e¢e¢-—_——

 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
   
  
  

cigar and a cigarette respectively’ | = “THROUGH THE YEARS” -- THE GAZETTE ODYSSEY acl geie Dyploviole ))
a '®SKATING ~~ _ The year 1869 saw three great strides in world communica-, wherein members of the college could express themselves in| members of the Dalhousie faculty on
every Monday and Friday|tions: the completion of the first transcontinental railway, the|writing. After a pre-publication “Prospectus” proclaiming the} questions of wide interest. First to

p.m. at the Arena for| Opening of the Suez Canal, and the founding of the Dalhousie|coming of the “Dalhousie College Gazette”, the first issue ap-| be quizzed with be Prof. A. K. Grifthe university. Admis-| Gazette! Only six years after the reorganization of the Uni-|peared on January 25, 1869. fin, Department of Classics, who will
entation of Students’| versity in 1863, three enterprising students, one graduate and Editors, publishers and staff were John J. Cameron, B.A.,| declaim on a matter pertaining to his
ket. Mey k ty two ‘undergraduates, decided Dalhousie needed a periodical (continued on page three) own field and to the university.

7 ' «
A se i
» aay

   
 
 
   

  
   
  
   
   

 

 
   

me A

    
 

‘
oe

* a
itsit tt? a ia
Lr IA a
—- Vf isk)
i i

   

    

   
  
 
 
 
  

 
 

ih

end
- + ( tand : : /
diva 2 i j
LF f i? vt aad iM
; / eer) ee BS ; 7 .
- m Coy Cie ae ” Ph FT mom Oe oe osha g eememe f ae
Thea 1 47 te y > pore ; . ai : t
TAT Rd Ne ON

Ts a% . ': my Tt 1 3 > , y r a a *
re ans 4") Whol hah Pan Be a pkg ‘ tk ON 4) re Ladi hia.t FA ph ey 1 hT) orale a
icine a gh tee: tt 5 z eee ae Mie ye i eo ee ow FA ee te oie inti

 

    

oo e be
a tas

  

 
  
  
   
     
 
  
 
    
   
    
 
  
 
  
  

  
 

and continue Grin did aot oceur

 

without the cognizance of the college.

 
  

ron of ee ees the
ontinned without

 
 

nich ch free expression can be given, not only to our own
to those of others who may interes
perity.” Among those who early interested anisalden

 

ege paper was begun |

r as the college 4

y taste: among pee es the et of |

i. By pti 1869 — “The Oldest A dllene Pubes i in America”

“The views expressed ‘ob any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
_ the author; it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of
the Student ee

¥
’

%

; GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44
Editor-in-Chief ..........00..

Up ON weld ete d'y! bo Rides Ted Shields

Business Manager ..............02005- Peal aca aS dsit otal wes Kevin Barry
TROROIM MUMEOE eth ha nae Rae vat a's Oa oo a's sles bwin als Jim McLaren
Feature Editors............ eat CAMA, apd i Bob McCleave, Eileen Phinney
DSDOEGS SUGIGIE: is c-alele a eG so 0h Mi poh aiok pinlara pala Sls: areola claus Bill Pope
WSU RNNES TINS i a-G Thal bv. b e/a aihnf V MPALRUAL LN Ges 68 064 Sub a Lou Collins

RPT AOMMMIPOTIOR ole Ua rs ke aan h U.ealean mlolpidinte ace K, Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
Proof Editor ..... Ure Sata wae drayiiee Lee Ale A tw-n Sikie wie eee o Laurie Smith
RS Art) RL, CREME 810 SU OS eee Wala oe 4-5 0 ae We. wleiele John Hibbetts

of “gy ene were ee Wm. Young, Professor Lyall,

  
 
 
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
     
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

ty of “lace matter.

\utumn Manoeuvres, My Hiccough, In’ A Whaleboat,

as “A poet is néahy and not fit.’

Pie CA) Me a eee

Way,

Bes brow is white as ihe driven snow,

That from the Nor-Nor-West doth blow.

a ‘Her eyes they are large and blue and dreamy,

Hig iy Her hair it is black as the back of the chimbley,
ey _ ‘Her. voice it is like to the sound of the brook
_hes we go ao sie summer fe fish it a ais af

pas sue oie delivered with all too fatal effect by the Hymnal
c ee 1885. ,

We aser, | 1878 iiiscinaaes) Hector McInnes, 18838 agen. 2. W.
- (mow a Classics Professor at Dalhousie).

he Mh og Se ale were forced to fill up a corner here and there

“Through the life road, rough and dirty,
_ T have walked to three and thirty.
"What have these years left to me?

- Nothing, only thirty-three.”

+ Re

1 ie’s fame had spread as early as 1883. In the January 26 copy

ette of that year, a notice from the Montreal Witness was re
which reads in part:)

alhousie College has long been one of the chief fountain-heads

al education in Nova Scotia, that perhaps has more academic

» institutions in an efficient state than any country of

vale on.”

vents at the sibs of the danas were discussed in the pages of

tte. Among these might be noted the Behring Sea Dispute, and
. In the Christmas issue of 1899 there are pictures of five

unteers for the Transvaal. These are the first photographs

e Gazette, The five men were H. B. Stairs, B.A. ’91, LI.B.793;

2nd year Law; R. T. Keefler, B.A. 92, LIB. 95; N. G. Mur
, 2nd year Law; C. MacDonald, 2nd year Arts.

ecurred the Jubilee of Queen Victoria. In.1908 the Alaskan

sed discussion, so did the will of Cecil Rhodes. As a sign of

Gazette had, on March 31, 1900, carried an article entiteld

ialistie World”.

mite iat * ¥ + *

Ne fea “Work at Dalhousie reminds up
US; eh Life is not an empty dream,

«Eben! plucks us, Howard? fines us,
Archie} hits us with a theme.

- Magill* rattles us with mystery,

--- Stanley5 buries us in Duff,

Lord John’ soaks us with his history,
hh i Holy. Moses, ain’t it tough!

* k *& #

ty fie belated in the eee issue of 1911. The vigorous

) pay off the mortgage on the property filled many pages of
4 thet year. |

mong ‘those graduating in Taw was Ivan R.
es cn Minister of National Defence, and one
e in the First Great War. Among the Med
en now well known—Harold Beige Atlee (Professor at|
0) Davie (Minister for Public Health in Nova meee
| fai ere ip meee.

f Militia aie) Defence laid plans
be oe in Canadian

Ll y
its ‘ 5. 4

every

he var Titles picked iat random
7 ech Speculation, The Art of Calling, On

ae, of ilps Is & Belief In Darwinism Con
One aspiring lad trans
‘|-daily papers.

| niversary, than that its success shculd be continuous,

Reporters: Jim Campbeil, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley
Bob Kimball, Marg Morrison

MANY HAPPY RETURNS

For three-quarters of a century, longer than any other
college paper in the Dominion, the Dalhousie Gazette has appeared regularly during the college term. Seventy-five classes,
in Arts, in Science, in Medicine and Law as these schools were
added, have read the Gazette, and contributed to it, and have
remembered it as one of the symbols of unforgettable, ir
replaceable college years.

The Gazette of January 25, 1869, bears little resemblance
in appareance or contents to the Gazette of January 28, 1944.
“Tempora et mores’ have brought about many changes in the
It has appeared fortnightly, monthly, and
Freshmen have ensered Dalhousie and worked their way from contributors and
reporters to the editorial chair and gone their way to a wider
citizenship, and the Gazette has passed into other willing hands.
The Franco-Prussian War was swinging into its fury as the
first Gazettes went to press; the guns of a dozen wars, small
and great, have thundered their volleys of death and been
Now the most stupendous of all time is
nearing a climax, as the Gazette enters its seventy-sixth year.
And when the dawn of victory has warmed the world, Dalhousie
will grow stronger and greater, and the Gazette wil lIflourish

‘lcollege journal.
weekly, in a variety of sizes and shapes.

silenced since then.

with it.

The world has altered immensely since that first pioneer
Gazette, just as the paper itself has changed. Few of the
material things of 1869 have survived. Yet the things of the
spirit do not change, and it is in this that the Gazette of today
is directly linked with the Gazette of seventy-five years ago.
»| The Gazette was founded to give Dalhousie students a place

where they could give their opinions full utterance, where they
could gain experience in expressing themselves without the
disheartening criticism of the mature world outside the campus.
Its one aim was to further the interests of the student body,
to provide it with a weapon of defense aginst whosoever might
attack it. These ideals have come down unchanged to this day;
they will remain the same as long as the Gazette itself exists,
which will be as long as there is a student body. No editor can
change them; no editor is ever greater than the paper itself, for
it stems directly from the heart of the University, that wonderful composite of students and faculties and traditions and
customs and everything that goes to make up Dalhousie.

Seventy-five years is a long time in the history of any
institution. Our beloved Dominion itself is only two years
older. Few men reach the age of seventy-five, still fewer publications survive that long. But for the Gazette, may it be only
the beginning! May future generations of Dalhousie students.
generations yet unborn, edit the Gazette, and shape it, and
improve it, and receive in return the knowledge of having been
of service to their University and their fellow Dalhousians—
the knowledge which has been the bounteous gift of the Gazette
for seventy-five years, and will be for many, many years more.

The Gazette takes this opportunity to express its sincere
thanks to Professor D. C. Harvey, of the Nova Scotia Archives,

for his invaluable aid in helping us prepare this special Anniversary Issue.

ee a ee ee eee nes apeeen sony neem stein

Dalhousie put away the book and gown and went away to war. Those
four long, grim years brought death and ey erlasting glory to many, many
sons of old Dalhousie. Faithfully. as of old, the Gazette recorded the
changes in college life, told the tales of Dalhousie’s sons at war, and proclaimed the grief of those who at home mourned the fallen.

% * te Be

Following the war a new type of Gazette appeared. The old Gazette,
a magazine-like paper of some seventy-five pages, had been published bimonthly. The new Gazette, published weekly, took its format from the
Gone was the old-world atmosphere, the scholarly, wellturned essays, the puns on Latin. In their place was published “hot”
spleereite news, twentieth-century “youth poetry”, raw humour and
“rags”. One may well note the famous “post-war cynicism”, the shorthair and shorter-skirts era, the aggressive policy growing in the world
after 1930, the false lull before 1939, and then, once more, the record of
old Dalhousie during a second world catastrophe.

The Gazette since the early twenties has poured its copy in very

much the same mould. Men and times have changed, yet the Gazette has
not changed very much.

In spite of the medern taste in boredom, the old spirit keeps the
Gazette alive. Officers of the Gazette in the years which lie ahead must
realize that they have a great tradition to maintain. Their work must be
a labour of love. If they are to be worthy of the Gazette editors of those

| early years, they must love their Alma Mater, must not be afraid of work,

take pride in it, and always bear in mind the aim expressed in the first

| copy of the Gazette—to “to cultivate a literary taste” among themselves,

and to establish “an organ in which free expression. can be given” both
to their own sentiments, and those of others who interest themselves in
the success and prosperity of the Gazette.

One cannot wish more for the Gazette on this, its saventy-fifth an
and its
aeeee®: prosperity

 

1 Prof, Ebenezer MacKay, Professor of Chemistry,

2 Prof. Howard Murray, Professor of Classics.

3 Prof. Archibald Ma¢mechan. Professor English.

4 Prof. Magill, Professor of Philosophy.

5 Prof. A. Stanley MacKenzie, Professor of Physics.

‘Pi re Pres, John. Forrest, Pee of Dalhousie and Professor of isos!

 

  

 

 
   
    

 

 

PLAYER'S NAVY CUT fee.

 

 

 
   
      

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS ~

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

   

 

It Takes Longer

Now...

After any Show

Birks have lost craftsmen

or e* « @ 5 } $

to war industries like many

other firms— and are glad ~
Before any Meal to have helped train these

men.

So if we ask for longer
time than we used to, we
know you’ll remember there
is a goodereason.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.

 

Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

  

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Have You Joined Ieee
The Dalhousie Book Club?

Among the many recent acquisitions are:

GOD IS MY CO-PILOT—Robert Scott

SO LITTLE TIME—J. P. Marquand

GRAND PARADE—G. B. Lancaster

WEST OF THE NIGHT—Beryl Markham
DAYLIGHT ON SATURDAY—J. B. Priestly
JOURNEY AMONG WARRIORS—Eve Currie
WINTERS TALES—Isak Dinesen

PARIS UNDERGROUND—E. Shiber

 

Membership fees are:

Students and Servicemen.........
Staff and Civilians......

and run for twelve months from the time of payment

 

The Book Club buys currernt books that would not ordina, Wt
be bought by departments of the University Library.

Top Floor, MacDonald Memorial Library

9 a.m, a 5 p.m.

 

iy ‘
ot } Ay e- 5 tau?

: j - ( é

i a (ues Rieti
fs Fag aay VR aw Zoe a
forth its poly: We are ey to

sitar of the

ished for its high and intellectual

s well as its academic usefulness.” |

iymous, and included a translation of a

”? and ‘

‘Notes on Cape Breton” by

of ‘iees writings were “to be continued”.
tte was nothing if not ambitious. A circu
itire |

province

was set as its aim, and it was

achieved. Letters and contributions were received from
: ts of Nova Scotia, including a letter from the Presi
id ay a.
yy Recs of the

wn)

air that party’s views.

g’s College, then at Windsor.
somewhat left-handed tribute to the growing inpaper, revealing the attempt of a provincial
political party to bribe the paper with “gold that perisheth’’ to

The fourth issue

ny A letter in the March 5th issue, 1869, from Fred W. Kelly,
% of McGill, acknowledged the Gazette stating it had been placed
in the University Reading Room, and congratulating Dalhousie
as “the first, among the educational institutions of the Dominion
ry: to extend an influence in this form beyond its’ walls.” ’
_ At the first. meeting of the new
eet hd of the student body of the Uni__-versity held on Nov. 10, 1869, the
- original editors of the Gazette offered to let the paper become the
property of the students, to be administered by them: By a motion
passed althost unanimously, the students enthusiastically took over the
_ Gazette. Advertisements, ‘a limited
_ mumber . . . at reasonable rates”,
appeared for the first time. Editorials branched off the campus to
such subjects as Post Office Management. <A vigorous editorial policy
which has recurred again and aoe
_ in the columns of the Gazette, was
sown that year, in articles calling
for union of the “thirty or forty
students of Acadia, with the twenty
or thirty of King’s, the thirty of
\! Sackville, and the forty of St.
i _. Francis Xavier and St. Mary’s with
our own sixty-three. What fun,
what speeches, what debates, what
_ glorious merriment! . .. United we
could opose anything that could oppose us.”
An advertisement for the Medical
course gave rates of “$6.00 for each
_- course of lectures”, and the editors
requested, in block capitals, “we wish
our delinquent subscribers would pay
up.” In the first issue of Nov. 24,
1870, prospective students were assured “a young man of modest preuy tensions with little inclination for
i high living, including cigars, punch,
Be hair oil ete., ean pass a comfortable
winter in the city, atending underan . graduate classes, for the modest sum
ny i of $130.00”. ’ ‘
ant ia The first radical change in the
paper was made in Vol. VIII, of
_ November, 1875, when a “New Sersae | ies” was started, a little smaller,
Wve, with better type, and at a doubled
a price of 10c per copy, printed on
A ae paper especially Na from

fs,

ru j
Wap?
i rs

Fi) ae ys
nat?

ae) |e BY :

ae

i i

Las

th us

.
7

4: Oe a, - The contents of the paper grew to

i include literary contributions of all

! a Kinds, poems, stories and articles,

correspondence, editorials, campus
"news, and personal columns.

In 1881 the first woman was ad
ted to the staff, Miss L. B. Calkin,

‘the class of 1885. In 1885 three

ay ditors from the Law School were

"added to the staff for a special “Law

ie Section”, followed in 1890 by a Med
ou eae: In 1888 the Gazette

H Dlossomed forth with 16 pages en
elosed within a “neat but not gaudy”

i i) cover | of gold and black, later chang
a Yeh

ed to blue because of the staff's
artistic sensibilities. The first issue
of 1889 extended a welcome to Dr,
Archibald MacMechan;, destined to

be one of the University’s best beloved and most famous professors.

In the masthead of the October 15
issue, 1891, appeared the name of
one of Dalhousie’s best known
alumni. Now Vicount of Calgary, he

was listed then simply as “R. B,

Bennett, Law.” This same issue
saw the Gazette made a monthly
magazine, containing usually about
40 pages, and reduced in size to approximately 6” x 9’. It continued
in this form for twenty-three years,
maintaining a high standard of literary excellence. Then in October,
1914, it reverted a fortnightly tabloid, 10” x 13”, of eight three column

pages.

The leading article of the first edition for this year reported plans for
a Dalhousie Canadian Officers Training Corps and the. next issue headlined “Dalhousie Will Do Her Duty”.
The paper was carried on through
the four years of conflict without
mising an issue, and in its pages
are recorded the gallant deeds of
Dalhousie fighting men on every war
front. The first Dalhousian killed
overseas was Capt. George W.
Stairs, and the Gazette of Nov. 17,
1915, carries a memorial to him by
Dr. McMechan. Capt. Stairs was the
first of a roll of heroes from the
University whose names filled the
pages of the paper as the battle
raged on. Another interesting story
of Dalhousie in World War I is told
in the January 29, 1918, issue, where
an account is given of the fine work
done by many of the students at the
time of the disastrous Explosion.
Medical students worked day and
night without rest in the hectic
weeks that followed the catastrophe;
coeds worked in emergency hospitals
and in relief work. Numbers of the
students stayed in the city over the
usual Christmas holiday to lend a

hand in the city’s need. Only two
Dal students were injured in the
Explosion, and none was killed.

This first issue of 1918 also hailed
the appearance of the Gazette as a
weekly paper. In Nov. 17, 1918, an
account was given of, Dalhousians
taking part in the great Armistice
celebration when “Halifax threw
aside every shred of her traditional
reserve for 48 hours.”

In 1925 the Gazette was enlarged
to 12” x 18”, with five columns of
type, and two years later it attained
its present size.

The Gazette has come a long way
since that first modest issue of
January 25, 1869; the developments

Ryan ce

bbe be suse/

| Age slogan in war or peace:
4

sei

: “Say Schwartz and be
protection that you may

(The Following are excerpts
sth fle Gazettes of former years.)

January 22, 1937—

“As “high school girls we were
looking forward to the time when we
should become members of Delta
Gamma. But what a letdown. Perhaps we expected too much. In’ the
first place the attendance at the
meetings is terrible. Few city girls
go, but there are fewer Hall girls.
We suppose that the latter who
manage to drag themselves downstairs feel that they might just as
well knit before a fire as in cold
rooms, The Council is extremely
stingy in granting money for our
organization, but how foolishly it is
spen t— buying food for meetings.
This appears to be the only inducement for attendance. We suggest
that this money could be spent, to
show the boys that we are capable
of giving something worthwhile, or
we could at least provide something
useful for the University. How
about some support.
we really need is spirit and action if
we want any kind of an organization at all.”

$0 *
March 16, 1934—

Presenting a continuous string of
snappy demonstrations from 3 till
12.30 Wednesday’s Annual Munro
Day celebration proved to be one of
most successful ever staged. A larger
and appreciative crowd attended the
afternoon sports and tea dance.

From letters to the editor: The
fact that the Student Council is not
an interested body has again been
confirmed by the abolition of the
Year Book. Preiously their actions
have largely been negative in nature.
—But the abolition of the Year Book
was a glaring and flagrant dismissal of the wishes of the students.

oe

Be *

March 8, 1934—

Council Vote to Abolish Year Book.
Council members arose to speak
against it on the grounds of the lack
of money, lack of support by the
majority and as an unsure expenditure. After a brief and one-sided
discussion, the question was put and
Pharos was gently, but firmly ushered out of existence,

e Be

February 1, 1929—

Glee Club Broadcast Popular. The
Dal Glee Club Broadcast is becoming
quite a popular hour over CHNS.
Sunday evening, according to Major
Borrett, there was in the ante-rooms
one of the largest crowds ever
present,

*

November 16, 1899—

_ Last month Old Dalhousie welcomed to her halls a hundred freshmen
or more—all sorts and conditions of
aspirants to academical honors.
Eeryone of the hundred has come
with preconceived ideas of a university and a university student, and no
doubt during the past month these
ideas have been modified. If a matriculation had been made at some
English University, perhaps the
thought that an ancient building clad
in creeping ivy and _ black-robed
seniors stalking through corridors
musty with traditions had a necessary connection with a university
migth be expected; but very fortunately such a connection is not likely
to becloud any young Dalhousian’s
idea, For the college building has
often been admired as a type of the
chaste collegiate style “deplorablyv
modern”, and since the abolition of
the “Toga”—-a step much to be regretted. The freshman has been
saved from confusing the man and
the gown.
* * &

February, 1888—

Munro Day was celebrated last
Tuesday in the usual jolly style
known only to students and the few
initiated into the mysteries of a
“good time”. The day was glorious
and the sleighing excellent. The

ia
i, Giowp

iF

iscus

ore of a .

Ro Hehe

“The new “listening discussion group complementary among emirate

!|of other groups across Canada to CBC’s

“Of Things To Come”, decided

at the Tuesday night program that we cannot have an athentive housing
scheme for poor slum-ridden Canadians because nobody will pay for them.
The Municipality can’t, the Province can’t, and the Dominion won’t;
faced with. this situation, one of the group nvepceted Socialism to’ over
come the barrier.

It was further decided in the dis-@———————___-— —-
cussion that followed the program,
that it is not politically expedient for
the Dominion to give subsidies to
the Provinces,
faced with needing half a million)

so Canadians are!

of medicine, and if they may reach
it sooner than is usual, they will
do so.

It is said that a medical officer
is not essentially different from the

new houses in Canada for those in| civilian doctor except in that he has

slums.
Government won’t, pay for them.

Tuesday, February 1, this question
will be continued, The group will
try to decide if anything can be
done for the slums. Dalhousians may
develop more public spirit and sense
of responsibility hearing and arguing one of Canada’s basic social
problems.

Chiefly Depressive

Second year students are showing
some concern about the coming sum
After all what | mer, and in consequence this writer

| has been asked to define their attitude. Herein is the intention to
reflect the opinions of the. class
taken as a unit.

From the students’ view, it is at
least opportune, though perhaps no
more than opportune, that studies
should continue throughout the sumner. Second year students might

draw army pay.
of the ridiculous

They would be rid
O.T.C.. training.
They would graduate a year and a
half sooner, and be commissioned in
the Canadian Army as medical officers.
These matters
of opportunity.

are surely matters
Some students must
work through the summer and borrow in order to have enough money
for the next year’s expenses. To
them, army pay would be a great
boon. Other students do not feel
that it is at all ineongruous for a
country desiring medical officers in
its armed forces to pay medical students for their work. Mr. Ilsley
takes the same view.
As for the O.T.C.,
be said? It seems merely a waste
of valuable time, the result of a
serious lack of vision or incredible
naivety regarding university training, taking origin in governmental
ignorance, and perpetuated the
ame medium.

Obviously, the seeond year students want to graduate as soon as
possible. ‘Their goal is the practise

what needs to

in

GARRICK

Saturay - Monday - Tuesday

“GOOD FELLOWS”
Cecil Kellaway

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“ADAM HAD FOUR SONS”

“GILDERSLEEVE ON
BROADWAY”

These people cannot, the| less to do.

then enlist in the R.C.A.M.C., and!

Similarly a medical student is not actually less useful than
a medical officer, since the one produces the other. Now is the civilian
medical student less useful than the
medical student in the army, since
both are to become doctors, persons

who are essential both in army and

civil life. Nevertheless, in the eyes
of the foolish, the sight of the uniformed students from all the other
Canadian Medical Schools will reflect
against Dalhousie if_the accelerated
course should be dropped at Dalhousie Medical School, and against
the students here because they would
then not be uniformed. Clothes do
not make man or school; but the
foolish are very many. 
The reasons put forward for summer term seem reasonable and
strong, the more so because forty
students are diréctly concerned.
There are reasons equally as strong
against summer term.- There is no
clear basis for deciding between one
or the other alternative. But second

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“THE CITY THAT STOPPED
HITLER”

and “TEXAS KID”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturay

“TUMBLING TUMBLEWEEDS”
Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

CASINO

ALL WEEK
STARTING SATURDAY

OLSEN

and

JOHNSON

oki BED iaet

“CRAZY
HOUSE”

|

;

cae: ‘gesdenia Nope Mie hs res

decision made, and know the reasons — Lae

for it, since they ought to. have some
grounds for defying those . ho
say, “And you, my good fello .
what are you doing to win the >

whit you ward vt a
Gel et ove

ot i 1 tice

STRONG POINTS
THAT STAND UP
WHEN YOU
BEAR DOWN

eae

ns
ns

m NON-CRUMBLING
LEADS THAT TAKE A
PERFECT POINT
EVERY TIME

ne

INSOLUBLE

MARKS THAT DON'T
RUN OR SMEAR
UNDER WATER

“CHEMI-SEALED"

{SUPER BONDEO!

ERITHIN

COLORED PENCILS

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“WATCH ON THE RHINE”

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

* “THANK YOUR
LUCKY STARS”

Capitol
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesda
ok. ADDY mr A wor

JEAN

ARTH ©

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“GUADACANAL
DIARY”

SONNY TUFTS

Have a Coca-Cola=Welcome home, Big Boy

We urge it for your

comp funereal aspect that the crowd had
assumed at the College while waiting for the start very quickly disappeared under the magical influence
of such songs as “Rock Me Julia”
and “Clementine”,

rh be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
| Coffee, Spices, Peanut. Saini ‘ited Powder, Baking

ot eta eee any to ape Pind with a Yank
er and Dri

The greeting Welcome home, big boy is understood all over
the Dominion, Just as friendly in its meaning are the
words Have a “Coke” spoken on both sides of the border.
it’s a-phrase that speaks of goodwill in Ottawa as in
Chicago. Yes, around the globe Coca-Cola stands for
the pause that refreshes—a symbol of friendliness.

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

s

rN, Pht A gd
; mc bal
ae ve ae

hid ‘ ‘ ; ‘y - a a MAS ee a Uy .

; Pe th at ay 5 bY Lh) pA ee
eee ere coffee and 8 a alae | of the next seventy-five years should
1) d in: ; ey prove equally interesting in the saga

| of sCenaeae slices ae news
It’s natural for popular names
to acquire for pop abbrevia‘ee tions. That's why you jhear

Coca-Cola called **Coke. 66

 
     
  

 
  

   

 

 

Se-Y g Ey
. “sn

ba

d been sent to

s. As yet no reply

 

 

 
 
 
 

. +,
+ . i .

Among those that showed up for
practise on Wednesday night in
eluded Jim Bell, Feanney, Samuels,
Matheson, MacDonald and Smith.

 

se

 DAL-R.C.A.F. GAME

_ ‘The Dal basketball squad dropped
their first game of the season to
 RC.A.F. 51-29 Saturday night. The
eollegians showed lack of practise

but are expected to improve as the
season goes on. Coach Burnie RalsSton led the team with 8 points while
Votour came in from his guard position to score six points.
Lineups: Dalhousie
Pope (2), White (0), Farquhar
(4), Dunlop (5), Votour (6), Giffen
(0), Hart (4), Ralston (8), MacKenzie (0). Total (29).
R.C.A.F.
Referee: E. Ruben.
ee RE SS ESTEE REET ES

     
     
       
     
             
   
 

  

| The Robert Simpson
Eastern Limited, Halifax

  

A
Dickie Collar
ne
College Girl's
Best Friend

  

It rejuvenates last year’s
dark wool and gives thi
season’s two-piecer something extra in the way of
crispness and charm. Not
the least of its merits is
the snow-white washable
sharkskin from which it’s
tailored. $1.

   

Telephone 4-4111

=

eo > + AY ef: is 4

pare [PRESENTING ... .

 

upon a late, and-other neces
i

Tt

 

er

Marj. Leonard. our very popular
gym instructress of the girls here
at Dal who came to our campus in
October 1948. Marj. hails originally
from Rothesay, New Brunswick. She
attended school in Saint John where
she first became interested in sports.
Continuing to Edgehill, Marj. was
keenly active in games, there being
on both the hockey and the basketball teams as well as playing badminton. During her summers Miss
Leonard did much sailing in her own
boat and was a member of the R.N.
Y.C. Marj also began golfing while
in Saint John and soon showed her
prowess in this game by winning the
shield for the club championship at
the Westfield Country Club.

After leaving Edgehill Marj. went
to Margaret Eaton School, Toronto.
During her summers there she was
head Councilior for sailing at Camp
Tanamakoon, a private camp for
girls in Northern Ontario. She was
also councillor for canoe-tripping
there. While studying at M. E. S.
Marj went in for the usual outdoor
sports such as swimming, skiing and

skating. Although she took figureskating, Marj prefers straight
skating.

After graduation from Margaret
Eaton, she took the position as Physical Director at a Social Settlement
in Toronto, for two years. Those
two summers she spent at the
Settlement School’s Camp, north of
Toronto. |

It was not long before the call of
the sea and home reached Marj
Leonard and back she came to the
good old Maritimes, for although.
Marj has had many good times and
has enjoyed immensely her years
in Upper Canada, nevertheless she
is a true and faithful Maritimer.

It was back to Edgehill that Marj
went but this time as one of the
staff. There she did much for the
sports and general physical activities of the girls. Though it was not
such a spectacular period, yet there
was much hard, solid work to be
done and Edgehill may feel justly
thankful.

From Edgehill Marj Leonard has
come on to Dalhousie where we hope
she will be very happy. We think
Dal should be very proud to have
someone who has had such an interesting life, so much experience in so
short a period.

We give you Marj Leonard, graduate of Margaret Eaton School, a
true friend, a great sport and an all
round good fellow.

Interfaculty
Hockey Notice

It is requested that all interfaculty
hockey managers desirous to enter
Interfaculty Hockey League contact
Doug Clarke in order to arrange
schedule for the later part of next
week. All games wil be played’on
the King’s rink and everyone should
support their faculty while the
league is in operation. Applications
of the faculty hockey managers for
admittance into the league may also
be left at the Office of the Physical
Director.

Girl Basketballers

Lose To Wrens
Tuesday, January 25, Dal girls

 

| played the Wrens team from Stadajcona. Great consternation ensued
| when it was realized that the visit
ing team was accustomed to boy’s
rules in fact one Wren expressed
great surprise and almost wonderment at the expression ‘Girls’ rules’!
However, they were great sports and

 

USIE GAZETTE

BRAIN WORK-OUT

  

  
  

  

¥S

ae
AN

HORIZONTAL

1. First name of “Red” Payne, Dal
equipment manager.

5. A lazy athlete.

10. Latent. }

12. An oration in praise of a winning athlete.

14, Author of 35 important books,

and has been knighted in his

own country.

Famous modern author (st let
ter of first name, last letter of

last name);

Coach Burnie Ralston has an—

personality.

Royal Engineers (abbr.)

Nickname of a skilled athlete.

Infuse.

A vegetable that healthy ath
letes eat.

Part of the verb “to be”.

Even an athlete must—although

the Students’ Council have made

* this more difficult for basketball
players.

Wet
\

17.
18.
20.
21.

22.
24,

25. Lacking caution and prudence.
26. A real athlete is never this.
28. He who scores consistently —

carefully.
. To plunge forward and down.
. What to do if you like this
puzzle (abbr.)
Only the—can afford to engage
in polo, yachting, ete.
84. Retains.
- Grub (coll.)

encounter last fall.

Pedigree.

Lamentation.

An object that helps romance
bloom in the summertime.
Diseern.

A unit of germ plasm.
These—are intended to be used
in the best interests of Dalhousie sport.

Afternoon.

An indoor game in which the
term “kiss” is often used.

51. An exclamation of disgust (coll)
52. Requisites.

VERTICAL

1, One skilled in the art of thrusting and parrying with foil or
sword.

2. The initials of a Dal football

40.
41.
42.

44,
45.
46.

40.
49.

The army had plenty of—(abbr) |
when they met Dal in their first =

35.

Vig ial \ VS
PON
PENT K
CECE
Sa
NY WYN
\\\
re

bao) \
0s SR aS
ee eee LRN

ou

11,
13.
16.

98,

at

36.
38.

1 | | WW
WP
PPE

eos

    
    
    
        

LA

\\

      

star. whose chief characteristic
is his coolness.

The—when Colin Smith and
Henry Reardon were at Dal was
a great period for ping-pong.
Moiety.

Bob Wade made his—in senior
fooltball company last fall.

A referee should never be biased
in interpreting a—

Cavity (first letter missing).

A negative reply.

Departure.

Guard on intermediate basketball team last year.

The measure of duration.

An affirmative reply (coll.)
What a baseball player carries
when he goes to the plate (two
words).

An athlete

that possesses a

Time Table Wanted
For P.T. Classes

A large number of students intimated that they were interested in
a varied program of physical activities which the Physical Department
of the University was sponsoring,

The hold-up at present is that I
have not received individual time
tables and to avoid disappointment
| to those who would like to take part
'I am marking time for another week
| which should allow plenty of time
for all to sign up.

Every male student in the Uni
(versity will be warmly welcomed to
Benig and every class that they have

the time to atend whether it be a
large muscle building activity or a
leisure recreational activity for post
college use.

A number have signed for the
classes listed below and I should like
to have an early start so come along
and sign the time table forms:
Basketball Fundamentals plus game

play
Fencing
Ju-Jitsu, Close combat fighting and

Commando Tactics
| Boxing
| Wrestling
Swimming (Beginner’s and Life Sav
ing with awards given
Softball

 

 

great store of knowledge could |

be called—

Treats with excessive indulgence

Ted Shields—the

week,

An object several Dal athletes

hammered at the Shipyards last

summer.

Dal football players went to bed

early on the—of their game with

Acadia.

Inquire.

The ground hockey match be
tween the girls and the boys was

—spectacle.

Acclaim

Lassitude.

A—at the records would show

that Dal had won 3 and lost 3

football games last term.

Apparent,

When playing golf a careful—

is kept.

A Persian goid coin worth about

T/2.

Winner of Munro-Evans trophy

for second straight year.

Committee for Industrial organ
igation (abbr.)

Studies deaden

initials).

Take Lever brothers advise on

this.

When teams play one game to

decide a championship it is call
ed a—(initials) match.
(Answer next week.)

 

 

excitement (3

 

conceded to play our method, al-| 28-21 in favor of the Wrens, who,
though the Wrens had great reserves| we hope, enjoyed the game as much

on which to call.

 

The score was|as did our team.

“IT DOES TASTE GOOD IN A PIPE!”

 

Join the Picobac Fraternity. It means
pleasant hours in every day—hours of mild,
cool sweet converse with a pipe—that companion which enlivens company and en
riches solitude.

Picobac

 

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO ~

 

Gazette each |

 

 

f

Basketball in the Dal Gym, Saturday night, Dalhousie vs. Army. Come
and see the Tigers in action in the
fastest Basketball League
City.

 

January 28, 1° if

 

Dancing Social (Beginner’s)

Golf and Tennis Fundamentals plus
practise.

If enough students are interested
I should be only too glad to give
instruction in the following:
Gymnastics (Horse, Horizontal bar,

Rings and Parallel bars.

Games (Indoor Soccer, Floor hockey,
Volley-Ball, European Handball
and Touch Rugby).

Badminton Fundamentals
(Beginners ).

Track and Field Class.

This is the last call for those who
wish to join the above physical activities to fill in time table forms for
the arrangement of suitable hours
for classes. Avail yourself of the
opportunity for better Physical Fitness now.

B. A. RALSTON,
Director, Physical Education,

NOTICES

Hockey at Arena, Dalhousie vs.
N. S. Tech, Sunday, January 30th,
at 4 p.m.

—_—_—.

in the

 

 

 

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—

       

ay Uae ee

crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

AABVEN'S

M\

“GRAHAM

BRAR
FERS

=
a

SS =
<a et.

ALITY

The Nova Scotia Technical College
Offers Engineering Courses in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience

Write or call for Calendar or advice to

 

F. H. SEXTON, President.

 

 

 

A National
favorite

ets

 
