 
 

 

   

_ CLIPPIN GS
e Ae JOHN HIBBITTS

ree ge <>

  
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
    
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
 

   

Ys) Co-éda ae ver abdident activities
ag Sadie Hawkins hits University of
ey} ea skatchewan campus. From Wed
y tiene esday to Saturday night the Sadies
will treat Lil’ Abners, and will take
Sys over all those gallant pastimes enWe joyed by the men. The annual Sadie
‘Suk awkins race will be staged in front
_ Convocation Hall.

* * *

C.0.T. C. Syllabus Revised
ony program for Queens O.
. for the upper years was reed at a meeting of local military

_ fii . + &* #
ae Besse on thee, pretty miss,
| - Quaker maid I long to kiss,
- With thy merry wanton quips, |
ate thy quirking, lipsticked lips.
ana - All ‘that sort of thing connotes
rae Wi _ That thee knows thy Quaker Oats.
i —The Gateway
ae See oe
And here’s one for the girls:
Ist Sadie: “Well, hello. You seem

} i 2nd Wolverine: “I sure am. I’m
| Pig y trying to get something for my boy

4 nea friend. E

¢ Be Ist ee Bearer: “Had any offers

x Ke *

| i | een Stages Athletic Festival

_ ‘The newest venture in McGill’s en teftainment life will be in the form
~ of the Athletic Festival, a combina- tion of the best indoor sports ma_ terial at the University, and one of
Wy a the top orchestras of the country.
- The Judo *Club will entertain the
le i iy spectators with its prowess of Ju fitsu.

ax
on

The og was called to}

~

r L’ORDRE DU

‘ive

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 4, 1944

 

 

BON TEMPS’ :

 

“When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?” - “Why, me, of course,’ quoth the engineer raising himself to his full
height, depositing a wad of gum on the wall and climbing leisurely into

his dress-suit. Then off to the Patt
-~-~-|-~

“Boilermakers and their wimmin” 
From far and near they troop—

Gazette Photographer, Ken Jeffrey, snapped the above scene during

last Friday’s festivities in the Nova

Scotian Hotel. According to reports

going the rounds and substantiated by the camera, everyone was in high

spirits (i.e. good cheer).
and ginger-ale.

Empty bottles on the banquet table are coke

 

GLEE CLUB MUSTERING TALENT FOR
GALA MUSICAL COMEDY PRODUCTION

Embryonie musical comedians and comediennes gathered at the Halifax Conservatory last Sunday afternoon as plans for the Munro Day
musical comedy were unfolded by impresario-director Harry Zappler and

Glee Club prexy Barbara White.

Among top campus choristers assigned

roles in the all-star production were Dee Hamilton, golden-haired, goldenvoiced contralto whose appearances on the radio and concert stage have
won her more than local renown, Kay Archibald, June Grant, Don Cor
ringham, Doug. Rogers, and the “mad atom,” Betty O’Toole.

Several

other juicy roles, the Gazetete reporter confidentially assured, were still

awaiting actors.

X. Geeclef MacHalfnote, sophzombie, who is ghost-writing the

supercolossal production, when in
terviewed by the Gazette inquiring

reporter jyesterday, confided in a

Further consultations and try-outs are to be held at the
Conservatory this Sunday afternoon.

werewolfish whisper the musieal
comedy “is a very inspiring slice of
drama indeed, dealing with the
trials and tribulations of true love’s
triumph.” More revelations were

promised for the future.

 

[The FIRST i in a series of answers by members of the
teaching staff to questions put forward by the Gazette on
problems pertaining to the university, the community and

Hy ali the nation.]
Lé) ee - QUESTION: pees the average student today show more or less interest in Classics
oe . nk he has shown in the past or is the same standard of interest evident through the years?
i ANSWERED by Prof. A. K. Griffin, Department of Classics.

- The iiidle of a world war is a poor fica in which to make comparisons between the
‘interest displayed now by students and that displayed in former years in such subjects as
_ the classics. During the tremendous efforts in the practical production of the munitions of
| War and in the training of the armed services, it is inevitable that people’s attention should
largely to such immediately practical pursuits as those demanded by warfare, e.g.

i a te echanical production, economic administration, and scientific research. Both in Great Britain
and the United States it has been found that the study of the humanities has greatly suffered

 
 
   
  

-€

  

Te igus in C: a B
and in this univ versity. ‘in particular,
_ we have meee in this Ww. much

_ bre nches of the
anada as a whole

 

io i ot ext ly ae , i

 
 

oe tly ‘owing ithe

 
       
  
  
 

idea, or
ead ec ©

ficiency in some technique or “skill

that finds an immediate application
to the conduct of war. Those who

grapple with post-war problems will

the ing|need a thorough grounding in the
5 , and the study 0 of the “hi fundamentals of our civilization and

a extensive oie with the

 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 

I pops up and says
leather brilliant new

a penne to say, taht, after ae al
much so that in some cases universities are little more than training schools for different

clearly what we are starting from
and whither we are going. Then we
shall be less likely to throw out
priceless jewels along with the rubbish and import cheap trinkets that
that have a momentary glamour. We
shall be able to get real aids for
real troubles.

To understand the fundamentals
of our civilization, we need the hu
manities. Among these the classical
languages have for a long time and
still have an honoured place, I am

  

   
    
 

“ +

; “i

al Facing U.N.B. in M.I.D.L. Radio Broadcast

oe be

Bari ae ig iy

ai. | 4:5 T —

So A '
ee Bae =
ary ‘ ; . “4
hier) ' ei ~

Gazette

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

No. 1s

 

Problems of Canadian A hoes Pca Hitting The
Airwaves Later ThisMonth

Opposing Motion for Canada’s

Constitution Aired By
Dal Discussion Group

The Dalhousie listening group of
the CBC feature “Of Things to
Come,” met last Tuesday evening to
discuss the constitution as a barrier
to Canadian progress. It was
agreed that from our point of view
the B.N.A. Act should be amended because it has had an adverse
effect on the prosperity of the Maritime Provinces. Several suggestions were offered as to what
amendments should be made, but no
conclusions were reached.

A few of the many constitutional
problems were considered including
labour, marketing and social legislation. The group was divided on the
subject of labour and marketing
legislation, but agreed that social
services such as health, pensions and
unemployment insurance shall be
under the dominion government, not
the provincial.

There was much diseussion in the
abolition of appeals to the Privy
Council on constitutional issues, but
a decision could not be reached, It
was suggested that the recommendations of the Rowell-Sirois Commission should be put into effect.

There were twenty present ineluding Mr. McAllister, the chairman; Prof. Richter of the faculty
and several students from the Faculty of Arts and the Law School.

Several members of the armed
forces were present. It is hoped
that there will be a large attend
ance from the student body next
Tuesday when the French problem
will be discussed.

 

Bulletins From The
Registrar’s Office

MACDONALD LIBRARY HOURS

On behalf of Arts and Science
students, the President of the Students’ Council has put forward a request that the Library be left open
longer. on week-nights. The use
made of the Library to the present
has been hardly sufficient to justify
opening at all: six to eight has been
the usual attendance, and these few
have usually been willing to leave
before 10 p.m. An inquiry concerning the demand for later hours in
the week before examinations met
with no reSponse. The Library is
for the use of students, and the University will make every effort to
meet a real demand. As from Monday, February 7th, the Library will
remain open until 10:30 on the regular week-nights, and will continue
to remain open to this hour so long
as the attendance is sufficient.

 

Pre-Dental and Pre-Medical
Students

Students seeking admission to
ist Year Medicine and Dentistry are
asked to make out applications on
the regular form. Application
blanks should be completed and returned before the end of February,
since first consideration will be
given to those.on file at that time.

 

MUNRO DAY

N. B.—Munro Day in 1944 will | Roosevelt. 15%

be Tuesday, 3 March ath Giga) the 3
Ue bas

. oe i .
ae jah ange de. CPAs see cede eh ee Ss a rs

 

Absorption

in U. S.A.

(Contributed)

Taking to the broad-public field that radio provides, Sodales
will lock in verbal duel with the University of New Brunswick
debating team towards the end of this month, on the 23rd,
supporting the negative of “Resolved that Canada should break
away from the Br ‘itish Commonwealth and join with the United

States”.
o'clock.

The debate, will be held over CHNS from 10 to 10.30
Aspirants to the pedestal of Demosthenes will be

James McLaren, Arts, and Bob McCleave, Law.

New Issue of
French Newspaper
Being Prepared

Another multi-paged issue of the
Dal. French publication, L’Epitre, is
scheduled to roll off the mimeograph
machine in a few days now. Meanwhile, the proletariat is working overtime writing material and gleaning contributions from all available
sources of supply.

Compositions of serious and humourous vein, a column of jokes, an
editorial and many other interesting
features will comprise the current
issue, the content of which flows
from the spirited pens of undergraduate French students at the
university. The large French I
class will contribute the greatest
mass effort to the publication.

In L’Epitre, Dalhousie can boast
of a novel and highly successful venture which has proven
and instructive since its inception in
November, 1942. Should the favourable response and cooperation of
the student body continue, L’Epitre
can hope for many more years of
health and happiness.

Editor again this year is J. C.
McLaren although greatest credit
for these ‘periodical undertakings
must go to Melle LaFeuille—the
“imprimeur-correcteur’”—who is to
be congratulated on her industry
and patience in correcting faulty
French and mimeographing the results,

Two issues are planned before
Convocation. Copies of last term’s

number are still available for those
interested.

DIPO

interesting

—————© Both are neweomers to the field of

college debating, though they have
had experience in extra-curricular
oratory, and in school debates, before coming to college. Both are
newspapermen, McLaren being present managing editor for the Gazette
while McCleave is feature editor,
and was editor-in-chief last year.

McLaren hails from Ottawa,
known and revered the country over
as at least the place where they do a
lot of talking. Since coming to Dalhousie, he has shown considerable
aptitude for French, and is a beacon
in promoting “L’Epitre”, the Cercle
Francais edition. He was a reporter
for The Halifax Chronicle last summer.

McCleave once belonged to the
Effective Speaking Club, in its Colin
Smith “daze”. A reporter for The
Halifax Herald during the night
hours, he studies Law by day. No
newcomer to radio, he once sneezed
resoundingly over the air while
watching a Beehive Corn Syrup
broadeast. His voeability is also anquestionable in the Quarterma:ter
Stores for the C.O.T.C.

 

Govern Yourself

Three One-Act Plays in competition for Connolly Shield, Feb, 11.

Millionaires’ Ball, Feb. 18.

Basketball Games.— Senior, Wednesday night; Intermediate, Setnurday night.

Delta Gamma will hold a Dance
for Service men at Shirreff Hall,
Monday, Feb. 7

Gazette Photos for Year Book to
be taken Tuesday, Feb. 8, at 2 p.im.
All staff members must be present.

Football Team Photo—To be taken
Wednesday, Feb. 9, at 2 p.m. at the

gymnasium.

 

Dalhousie Institute
of Public Opinion

 

1. Do You Think the Flag Should Be Flown Every Day on

the Campus?

90% of the people asked this question answered with a resounding
“YES”. They were, in fact, rather indignant that! the flag was not in

evidence on the college grounds.
cided or did not eare.
* x

The remaining 10% were either unde
%

2. Do You Think That Hours For C.0.T.C. Should Be
Reduced For All (Including Freshmen) Taking Training

in That Detachment?
95%

of those so queried said “definitely YES”.

Most of those so

answering were souls suffering under the energetic syllabus of the Corps.
The remaining 5% were undecided, probably due to the fact that they are

not affected one way or another.
* x

Be xf

3. Whom Do You Think Will Be the Next President of the

United States? .
‘Of those asked this timely

question, 75% stated that their shinies Ss
polled in favour of Willkie. The remaining 10% though: A
that Dewey would take first honours in the ances peniene ae oe

mJ

 

 

i) ae

noe

;
x
4
5

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
 
     
    
    
  
   
    

't the lecture theatre and hurried out to the snowmpus. As he crossed the campus, echoes of the
fessor’s lecture still lingered in his mind. The prolectured on criticism both of life and literature. He
thought that people saw so little of the life about
1 wondered at their indifference.
looked at the handful of people waiting for the tram
few he recognized, a college professor, an English
a machine shop foreman.
> tram arrived finally. Its design and its swaying mom made him think of it as a larger edition of the famed
aic-strip trolley, yet even he found such a mode of transtation invaluable in the rush of the present day. Suddenly
. realized that people had forgotten how to walk. This he
sed to the speed of modern civilization and the fatigue
lich it produces. He thought of the men who had enjoyed

cing—Wordsworth of the Lake District, Emerson, Thoreau
‘who wrote in the Art of Walking.
_ he thought about graduation in the Spring. If success

vored him he would be a B.A. Baccalaureus Artium — he
d it on his tongue, and yet, after all, what would it mean?
‘privilege of writing B.A. after his name, a parchment on
ich curious relations might gaze, the opinion of others that
1ad a “good education”. What would his friends think if
tried to tell them that true wisdom consisted in knowing
| that one knew nothing.

Getting off the tram he set out to wander about the old

- town. He walked down the hill past the old Georgian government buildings, in the grounds of which stood a statue of one
his country’s most golden-voiced orators, who early chamoned the right of a people in their own governments; down
the dockside, where as he stumbled over the cobblestones he
ald look down the long alleys between the old buildings and
ch glimpses of the cold, blue waters of the harbour beyond.
~arby was a square, to which a half-century before, country
‘olk had brought their farm produce and livestock. He

imagined how that open-air market must have looked to the

-easual observer, the huge feathered bonnets of the women
| nodding over the stalls, the rich colours of the farm produce,

' the animals, the bright baskets of the Indians, the flower displays of the negroes, the pigeons wheeling overhead, anf the
_ whole picture gilded and warmed by the rays of the sun as it
 erept up from the sea and flowed over an awakenenin city.

He wandered on, here and there catching glimpses of a
_harbour-tug or rusty bellied freighter. Once he saw a fishing
schooner rocking at her mooring with the ebb and flow of the
tide. Dirty children played in the street, here and there a
_ frowsy woman looked out of a second story window. He passed
shops of all kinds, provision merchants, ships chandlers, mast
ers, sail makers, pawn shops and junk shops. This was a
et typical of all old seaport towns. Narrow, dirty, crooked
paved with cobble-stones, it followed the curve of the shoreline for the length of the older part of the city.

) _ Finally he turned his steps once more toward the centre
. of the town. He boarded another swaying tram, this time
homeward bound. The car was soon crowded. Covertly he
an to study the faces and dress of his co-travellers. Near
/ him sat a stevedore whose heavy-lidded eyes and repressed
| yawn betrayed the fatigue which had etched lines around his
} mouth. On his right was.a little boy with a toy guitar in a
_ paper bag, who had painful, irritating cough. A coarse-featured
‘woman stood beside him. The thought of other, happier days,
' when there was no strain, no fatigue of war to strain faces.
| _ He wondered if people would ever really smile again.
i —-—C Leaving the train he walked briskly home. Nearly home,
| he stopped to watch two young boys fighting and rolling in the
w, and wondered how long this must remain a sign of the

    
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
    

  
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
    
    
  
    
  
  

i

   

      
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
     
   
 
     
     
       
   
     
       
 
         
      
       
       
 
   

| of the World Church

 

_ To meet the needs

  

tt

   
   

E ‘The Woman’s Missionary Society of the United Church
, || of Canada is prepared to appoint fifty young women in
lb _ the next four years.

eur:
* | +
a

ie 3 Hl
qe)
Tt

be

me
i

   

1 A o va J “ j 5
eee eee 3 (eee ¢
|| There are urgent vacancies for

   

inal belie

  

   
  
    
     

|| A HOUSEHOLD SCIENCE TEACHER IN CHINA
_ A HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER IN INDIA

.

*
.

      

| Bg, eae A Lees aie
me. COMMUNIT - WORKERS IN CANADA ~

  

   

   
      

  

irs

| the first occasion of this type this

| forward to it with enthusiasm. It is

© it

‘Gazette.

{a_of the Gllege by the Sea

 
 
   

Founded 1869— “The Oldest College Paper in America”

The views expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
the author; it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of
the Student Body.

 

GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44

PE EOE ale S bieins 6 a'a,0 8.01 0.5 3 o's decile Sa'p Wale bdr, bee o vies Ted Shields
REMC TEE ag 0a df .0 5.9 09S Dow's vomiae ¢ 8s MecKe #7 evin Barry
Pe Mee I a ars Weil e ax e460 toh sow ck ban Res 66s im McLaren
TH GRURYS TAOTUOTS: \ hip bolt a 's)5 «one Oa + Gas Bob McCleave, Eileen Phinney
Pieper RPE RMEAEE Uni hiiacsly dieid Mipin sities sia/¥ ie c'4 Cia biecstelwie'd bee 0 0 0, 6.6.6, 0% ill Pope
RP SMEAR DOPE CU Gs005!1 ypinia 6. os (On gralegk Cds ad 6\c.8 uielw Sse 00 pidle Lou Collins
EAE NMR oi ald coca av ula wiaoesoné bina bcs K. Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
OE ai Bee Wick ale ack 3.4: b0, ce Oph ocebh Oye.0 8 Wikiate, & 9.638 Laurie Smith
Seri ARERR SONOS Oars) 68s 5 ta x Sosa, 5 od a ta'la ip noieedeaasa: Bim. 6-8 ve John Hibbetts

Reporters: Jim Campbell, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley
Bob Kimbal¥, Marg Morrison

THE RENAISSANCE OF COLLEGE SPIRIT

“Jucundum nihil est nisi quod reficit varietas”

The “complete education’, as John Milton envisioned it,

was one which produced the “complete man”’, adept in all fields
of human enterprise and ready to meet all the contingencies of
the outside world —one which laid equal stress on work and
play. Although the university today éxerts no direct influence
beyond strict academic pursuits, this “universality” in man has
in no way lessened in importance. But acceptance or denial of

its benefits rests solely with the individual student.

At Dalhousie, the significance of this ‘‘versatility” is finally
asserting itself in the form of a Renaissance of college spirit.
It is a gradual evolution perhaps not immediately apparent, but
it is a determined evolution progressing along revolutionary
lines, |

Students and student activities may be divided conveniently
into three categories: there are those who spend all their time
absorbed in studies; there are those who spend all their time
absorbed in extra curricular activities and there are those who
while putting studies first devote some time to the lighter
pastimes that constitute the “social life’ of the university. The
first group, purely academic, has its faithful adherents; devotees of the second group, for obvious reasons, are on the
decline and are all but extinct, but the third group, or so it
seems at Dal, is the best represented and is steadily assuming
the position it deserves in the life of the University.

The result, then, of this “new lease on life’’—this changed
out-look—has been an awakening of the so-called Dalhousie
Spirit which for so long has been drifting into the doldrums
of neglect. Spirit, interest and enthusiasm are gradually replacing the academic seriousness, the disinterest and the “I
don’t care” attitude which has stereotyped the campus of past
years. The change is affecting large numbers in all branches of
study. Dissenters and sceptic are on the down-grade. The
proverbial “Everybody Out—Come on Gang” posters have lost
some of their irony.

The new spirit is everywhere evident: in sports, in class
meetings, in discussion groups and even in the dark, dingy inner
sanctum of the Gazette where the ponderous labours of the
editors have been somewhat lightened by occasional outside
contributions. But although innumerable oldsters have seen
the light, undoubtedly great credit for this revolutionary transformation must go to the Freshman Class, which is asserting
itself for the first time in many years as a compact force, and
has given a much needed transfusion to the weakened, wavering
campus life.

There is every reason to hope that next year will find
Dalhousie spirit still in the ascendant, contributing through its
multiple channels of activity to the prosperity of the Gold and
Black and to the “complete education” of each and every
Dalhousian.

Class of 45
Elects Officers

Plans for the annual Junior Prom
dance and election of officers to the
class of ’45 were the subjects of
discussion at a meeting held last
Thursday noon in Room 38 of the
Arts Building.

The gathering was undecided on
the dance question although general opinion favoured the holding of
the affair after Munro Day and the
acquisition of a room in the Nova
Scotian Hotel for the®* purpose.
However, final decision is to rest
with a Dance Committee comprising
the following: Irma MacQuarrie,
Les MacLean, Joan MacInnes and
George SmitiP

The decision to appoint class officers resulted in the election of Kay
Harrison as President and Art Hartling as Vice-President.

Exclusive Frosh Sleigh
Ride Planned for 12th

At the meeting of the Freshmen
Class held Thursday it was decided
to have a class sleigh-ride on Saturday, Feb. 12th. It is toube for all
frosh and their guests only. This is

S.C. M. Trio to
Visit Campus

A group of three visitors will be
coming to the Dalhousie campus
from February 15-17. This group is
being sent out by the S.C.M. of Canada as a follow-up of the conference of North American students
held in Wooster, Ohio, during the
Christmas holidays. The group includes: Surgie Singh, a native of
Cashmere, India; Miss Helen Morton, vice-chairman of the World’s
Student Christian Federation, and
Rev. George Tuttle, who, during the
summer was one of seven Canadian
delegates at a pan-American Youth
Congress at Mexico City. This trio
will meet groups on campus and
young people’s groups through the
city.

OL

 

dancing after the sleigh-ride. A
committee was appointed consisting
of Ivan Silver, Leon Murray, Connie Archibald and Neil McKelvey
to look after the arrangements.

The problem of getting class pins
was also discussed at the meeting.
Mary MacDonald, Doug. Sawyer and
Alex, Farquhar were elected to look
after the getting of pins,

Bob, Knight, the president, was
in the chair and there was a large
and representation from

<a ~ a a ‘on is

season and the frosh are looking

ie :
" & by
ie. Ries, &

4 a le

' .
i

 
  

, } i
i és ws

perma a.‘

   

pla

     
   

'
ata —

then

    
 
  

 

 
   
 
      
      
 
       

Mayors Pleas
MEDIUM or MILD
PLAYER’S NAVY CUT CIGARETTES

 

  

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

   

It Takes Longer
Now...

Birks have lost craftsmen
to war industries like many
other firms —and are glad
to have helped train these
men.

So if we ask for longer
time than we used to, we
know you'll remember there
is @ good reason.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

After any Show

      
     
     
         
     
     
       
   
 
 
       
     
   
         

OF 2's ie

Before any Meal

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

 

Fader’s Drug Stores ||| rH NATIONAL FISH CO.

     
     

     
   
    
   
      

135 HOLLIS STREET Limited
29 COBURG ROAD Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX Nova Scotia HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH

  

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

   

Have You Joined
The Dalhousie Book Club?

Among the many recent acquisitions are:

GOD IS MY CO-PILOT—Robert Scott

SO LITTLE TIME—J, P. Marquand

GRAND PARADE—.G. B. Lancaster

WEST OF THE NIGHT—Beryl Markham
DAYLIGHT ON SATURDAY-—J. B. Priestly
JOURNEY AMONG WARRIORS—Eve Currie
WINTERS TALES—Isak Dinesen

PARIS UNDERGROUND—R. Shiber

 
  
  
   
  
  

 

Membership fees are:

Students and Servicémen
Staff and Civilians 3.00

and run for twelve months from the time of payment

ee eeeeeeasene e*ee re

 

The Book Club buys currernt books

that would not ordinaril
be bought by departments of M 7

the University Library,
Top Floor, MacDonald Memorial Library 9 a.m. -5 p.m.

  
  
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
  
    
    
  
   
     
   
     
   
   
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
    
  
    
  

te the fern biliek i salie i story is told of the lawyer
1 by his dog, entered a meat market one day. The dog,
ae to juicy steaks is only equalled by a reformed vegezed one, ate same. The butcher, noticing the erie

y o Whose dog came into his imavlint and, unknown to his maset cet meat.” The’ lawyer said he could. The butcher’s beam
ying e to Sade a way to handle these war-guilt trials, “Tripe” has volun| to exert Bansal in this direction, and to lay down procedure and
: a thing i is to catch them. It is understood that governments of. the
“United Nations have sent notes to such neutrals as Switzerland, Argentina,
i Treland (south), Goulash-Goulash and Sweden, stating in principle: “Dear
- Goulash-Goulash (or Sweden, ete.)—After the war a lot of desperate
characters will attempt to mosey inte your countries and seek, refuge. Do
Rot grant same. Send them back and change them fov the kind and sweet
type of tourist. Otherwise it will be battleships at dawn.’ Signed—Joe,
BD. R. and Win. Should be easy to catch them this way.
_ Having got same, put them into court. Their first argument. will be
> that under their system of law they are not guilty, having slain under
same which allows said slayin”. Don’t listen to them, Even if they hint
_ that we have used machine guns for unfriendly purposes, don’t listen to
Bier _ them, :
iy: ' This will be one of the most revolutionary steps the world has ever
ay Feuken: It is part of that process of evolution which is advancing us to) wards a kind of peace which will only be punctuated by wars at 25 years
F i intervals, instead of as in the past.
; _ They will demand that they be tried by a jury of their peers or equals.
_ Though this is a fundamental principle of law, it is easy to get around.
“ata them to a status quo ante (or before the new deal was dealt) basis.
Hitler would be tried by paper-hangers, Mussolini by shoemakers, Tojo
Be sby orchard cultivators, and silk-worm exterminators, even by American
: i Being manufacturers. |
Do not let them plead insanity or blows on the head in their youth.
2. his is altogether too common a practice, and should be nipped in the
Os mud. To get rid of this defense more easily, have their defense counsel
speak i in German, Italian, or Japanese, and the judges be men who under‘- stand none of these languages. That will teach them. If possible, prove
Saal ‘they aren’t insane.
a sii Hitler, e.g.—“Hitler, you’ve never married; you can’t be as insane as
"you think you are.” Or Mussolini, pleading old age—‘‘Musso, you’re -in
, |Your second childhood. We sentence you to a reformatory.” Or Tojo,
pleading silk-worm blight—‘We have to hang blighters.”
_ Then, as to the method of carrying out the executions. Hitler could
sonably be taken before what is left of the German people in what is
eft of a German city, and made to hang Barnum and Bailey\Circus posters
on the walls, if any. Or to paper the streets with “Mein Kampf”. That
would teach the skampf.
ss Tojo could be taken to Pearl Harbour, where he would be fed Bob
- Hope jokes which would tickle him to death. After all, he was partly res onsible for the startiing of Hope on his round the world titter-tours.
ae fussolini should be given some of the shoes he wasn’t much of a success
in mending, and made to run back and forth on the Appian Way. When
B “his feet stick out from beneath the leather, he should set out on a trek
4 across the Sahara to see his old foe, King Hailee in Addis Ababa.
A ving there, he should be conducted to a cosy gas cabinet with. oodles

: of tear gas, and cry himself to his grave. .
ie B %
A

    
  
   
  
   

As easy as sassing your deaf Aunt Matilda .

ae in

 

‘a
he,

| ee 4 i WITHOUT PREJUDICE

B §~—S This column, submitted without
Br prejudice, will endeavour to keep
. you informed upon the activities
© (legal and otherwise) of the Law
_ School. We are protected from
suits for libel by a ameaty chosen
title.
It is reliably reported that
 &Charles Boyer” O’Connell will
L _ make his debut in the Three Act
| Play to be presented by the Glee
+ club, O’Connell will steal the show
with his eight-line part. If you
Li would see dynamic acting, see
id x O'Connell.
_ Typewriter sales must be zooming.
F “Our “By-from-the-Bay” King recom mends it highly. No pick-typist he;
Jf is touch system — has “the
Grif” green with envy.

f

“Newfiie” Matthews is prepared to
clip the editors a well-known publieation for their slighting remarks
concerning certain articles of underclothing worn by Newfoundland
girls.

Lord Honk of Gander (Sheffman)
simply amazes all and sundry with
his profound knowledge of hypothetical cases. After terming a decision of the Privy Council erroneous anl ill-founded, he was forced to
admit that he had never read the
case.

Cupid is to have a formidable adversary in the field of archery. A
bronzed blond of third year is entering the lists also, so let all males
beware - - - tsk, tsk, and this is
Leap Year! ‘

 
 

 
 

 
 

  

  

  

   
  
 

BRAIN WORK-OUT |

Test your sport knowledge by picking out the correct
answers in the following questions. Score five points for _
Pedeh correct answer. Anyone above er is definitely —

: in the expert class.

1. The “American feist? is used in
(a) fancy skating; (b) diving; (c) tennis; (d) football.

 
 
 
 

 
 

   

(a) 18 i ins.; (b) 10 ins; (c) 25 ins. ; (a) 15 ins.
In eeeeNe sport what is oe nharonl frequently, run
dist:

  

Two thoughts held Hartz as he
looked at the threatening ring of
sophomores and the co-ed they had
told him to kiss. First, he had
heard somewhere of the punishment
they had meted out to unruly freshmen in the 20’s at Dalhousie; one, a
little Newfoundlander, some burly
sophomores had hauled up to the
third floor of the Forrest Building,
had opened the window, suspended
him out, and then clutching him by
one leg only, had tossed him back
Hani forth between them.

The other was-his dead wife. She
was a gay slip of a girl before they

| were married. Perhaps a little too

thin to stand up to the rigors of
farm work. But she had been his
constant companion for twenty years
until her death just before World
War II. She had shared his troubles, and worked twelve hours a day
when they were struggling to put
the farm in shape. Suddenly grown
stout and silent through the hardness
of her life, he couldn’t say he had
kissed her more than one day a
week — that was Saturday night—
regularly throughout her married
life. But she had firm lips and a
pleasant, if prematurely lined face.
This co-ed left much to be desired in
that respect; she had a fashionably
weak chin which presumed as much
gumption as one would be charitable
enough to allow her.

The thoughts of Matty overruled
that of the poor freshman dangling
green-faced seventy feet above the
ground. With despair on his face,
Hartz leaped up and told the nearest grinning sophomore he could go
to the devil. Then he hung his head
and tensed himself when they would
throw themselves upon him.

Surprisingly, there was a whispered consultation. The leader spoke,
“Well” he whined, “you might enter
into the spirit of the thing. You’ll
have to do something”. They compromised by letting him eat old
cheese.

 

TURNOUT

It was the day of the first big
football game of the year, and Dalhousie’s ancient rival, Acadia, was
the opposing team. In a burst of
zeal the initiating class decided to
organize a rally. For a week before
the game, signs prominently displayed across Studley and Forrest, in
beautiful yellow and gold said,
“Everybody out. Gigantic Pep Rally.
Our most beautiful freshettes will

 

HIPPOCRATES
SPEAKS ..

This week, by way of variety,
here is a message from the president of Second Year Medicine:

“Who said there wouldn’t be a
Med. Ball this year? There is going to be one this year and confidentially it’s promised to be the best
ever. Last year it was the Boilermakers’ - Med. Ball, but this year it
will be put on sdlely by the Meds.
Posters will soon be out and tickets
will be on sale. The Ball is scheduled for the end of the month or the
beginning of March. Everyone has
time to get himself a date and
have some fun. The Dance Committee promises everyone a much
better time than they have ever had
at any of the previous Balls, as
though that were possible.

“At the last meeting of the Med.
Society it was decided that in the
future a film would be shown every
second week, if it could be arranged,
together with informal talks by
aS many members of the faculty as
could be had. All medical students
are expected to turn out for these
and for the meetings which precede
the show. In the past too little interest has been shown; we hope that

| more interest will be shown in fu
ture, not only in the shows but in

| the meetings.

“It was suggested that pre-medi
| cal students be invited to the various
| ae oe will from _time to Hee

 

che Besins: in English ’

 

lead the cheering. Dalhousie songs| students who were loath to engage

will be sung to get your voices in
shape for the BIG GAME”,

It was only a few days after the
opening of college, and Hartz had
already spent a considerable sum of

s

money on clothing, but he decided to

go the limit for this superb occasion.
He bought a blazer at the Gym
store, a beautiful black tie with
yellow edging that cost over $2.00,
and flannel trousers to go collegiate.
He half-shaped his hat into something almost collegiate; he decided
on this when a freshette sat on it
by mistake in the Gym.

The big night, which was. to feature an all-Dalhousie band, he went
over to the Gym early, about twenty
minutes before the opening. He
wanted to get a seat. To his surprise, there were no seats on the
floor. Scurrying around, and feeling
some measure of responsibility, he
managed to get a respectable fifty
set up in fifteem minutes. Five
minutes before the opening of the
super-event, the band straggled in,
and wearily set up their instruments.
Two minutes later, the cheer-andsong-leader arrived supported by two
friends. She was wearing a yellow
sweater, a black skirt, and unbounded enthusiasm. At eight o’clock,
when six Halifax freshmen came in,
she was getting a little peeved. By
ten after eight, the chairs were onequarter filled. At fifteen after eight,
the band left; at twenty after the
cheer-leader left, enthusiasm gone,
supported by her two friends; by
half an hour later Hartz had wearily
put the chairs back in place and
had left for his rooms.

BOOKS

The President of the University
was going to deliver his annual address to the University, at the opening of the year. Everybody showed
up, as they had for years. An able
classicist, a brilliant scholar, he gave
a moving address. Hartz was enthrailed. Here was a man who knew
the beauty of books, and who could
strike a sympathetic chord in the
heart of people who knew their
beauty too. The book. were a little
advanced for Hartz, it is. true, and
some of the professors even seemed
a wee bit doubtful when the great
man thought that classical medical
treatises should be the subject in the
big professionable school instead of
standard texts. But it was an interesting address, and the usually lax

 

  
  
   
   
   
 

  
   
   
 

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday -: Tuesday
“PARIS AFTER DARK”

Brenda Marshall - Geo. Saunders |

   
    
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

    
  
   
  
  

  
  
  
 

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“BUCK PRIVATES”
‘LITTLE CHICKADEE”

  

     
     
       
       
 
    
      
    
 
 
   
   
   
  
      
     
       
      
   
 

 

... the: way to win a welcome ghareice you go

Where you find democracy, you find the feeling of friendliness. It’s
made up of little things that marka way of life; sports, fair play, movies,
and swing music. A phrase like Have a**Coke" turns strangers into friends,
the same in both hemispheres. Around the globe Coca-Cola stands for
the pause that refreshes —has become the high-sign of the good-hearted.

} The Bessagshaned censored of oe paaiied: Halifax

in any activities which might stamp
them with the herd or over-eager,
were in attendance.

Hartz jotted down a few of the
books the President had mentioned,
and since he believed one might be
of some help in giving him a background to an English theme, he went
over to the library and got it out.
There was only one copy in the University, the librarian assured him,
and would he please bring it back
soon. He found on looking at the
back that the last time the book has
been out was when a Rosamund
Thistle, majoring in education 20
years before, borrowed it in the
throes of her thesis. However, he
got some pleasure out of it, because
Miss Thistle, apparently the only
one in fifty years to have read it,
had not marked it with blue, red and
black pencil marks,

Then he settled down to writing
his first thesis in English two. The
subject was ‘Why study this course?’
The professor was in his estimation
a very learned man, and most of the
students could understand what he
was saying from minute to minute.
But somehow when the conclusion of
the lecture came, and a brief summary was given, an intellectual embarrassment came over Hartz.
Perhaps he was too dumb for this
class. Then he looked at the others,
and they seemed bewildered too.

(to be continued )

uo mat er eee :
er e os Kite
=

Page Three

What to Do With Hitler a

Contest

Next week the Dalhousie Gazette
will publish its first feature article
on contributions received as to what

was to be done with Hitler after the

war is over—if anything, From time
to time it is planned to’ combine in
an article several of these interesting articles.

If Hitler knew the fate in store
for him, according to some Canadians who have answered the question, and whose contributions will
appear. One very interesting reply.
from a Hantsport citizen, prescribes
a course of torture that would rival
that of any medieval peine et forte
dure. Another, from a Dalhousie
student, discusses the possibilities
of a war trial.

Prize one of the lot is the answer
in French. We’re getting after some
of L’Epitre staff to work out the
English.

The contest is still open. for ali
Dalhousie students, who are eligible
for the prizes. Last entries must
be received Munro Day,
March 14.

before

Engineer: “I like maths, when they
aren’t way over my head”,

2nd Same: “That’s the way I feel
about pigeons, too.”

 

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“DANCING MASTERS”
and “ARIZONA TRAIL”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“ADVENTURES of a ROOKIE”
“RIDERS of the RIO GRANDE”

 

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday
“BOMBARDIER”
“FIND THE BLACKMAILER”

Wednesday and Thursday
“FIRST COME COURAGE”
with SHORTS

Friday and Saturday
“I DOOD IT!” — with NEWS

 

CASINO

ALL WEEK
STARTING SATURDAY

OLSEN

and

JOHNSON

Sls SRD pe

“CRAZY
HOUSE”

    
    
 
   
 

Capitol

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“HAPPY
LAN 33

DON AMECHE
Ds

Thursray - Friday - Saturday

“NORTHERN
PURSUIT”

ERROL FLYNN

 

   
  
  

“Coke” = Coca-Cola

It’s natural for

popular names to

acquire friendly ’
abbreviations.

That's why you

hear Coca-Cola

called ‘‘Coke."’

  

  

 
. . nat Sia 7 ee oe Lee ee ee = M I1tie 4 iTS time
oe 3 = rt ee ian 7 a. ah eB aril v 54 ’ > ae ' & , 1 * Ase tary
Dene ee dy Last 2 re ie ss ate WF a co ae) ayy SH Mee f : me Baal ea Ae AC gee pt

Le Wy s A aa 7 - 1 a i ; 5 :

   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
     
 
   
    
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
     
      
    
     
  
   
 
    
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
  

February 4, 1944 7

       

 

‘~~ 
| PRESENTING ee

   

THE e
aes ; no Cont TEA ROOM £ atins
..., popular, athletic and studious Dave Churchill-Smith, an all- 2 FI WER
‘| round faite who has taken a prominent part in many of the campus 370 Spring Garden Road O SHOP 4
activities. Dave is a second year Peerarts student, coming to Dal. from 83-9754 37- BLOWERS STREET
o wh he was born. We Cater to Collegians
a rate At an early age he moved from ? Phone 3-7133 HALIFAX
his birthplace, Oakville, Ontario, to | ¥
ae a a Montreal, where he attended Ros- . ° "
a rons ae given pa eta ee Pees lyn School. There this future star F or Sporting ; 0
eae two points for the records as they were given began his hockey career and he has G : j f ‘ Wale see WALL Eee.
vietory : tae game when the Army defaulted to the been playing on various teams ever $s 0
The hockey stars, however, did it “the hard way” and bat- sinee. .|| Finest Quality THOMAS WALLACE
neing 7-2 win over N. S. Tech. After graduating from Roslyn his SONS AND DAUGHTERS
around the Campus is really being vealed up” and the hoc- next school was Lower Canada Col- SIGHT SPECIALISTS =

and a Complete

lege where he continued his hockey. Music Service

Later he attended Bishop’s College

and in his last two years at this PIANOS — CHURCH ORGANS

school he was a member on the sen- SHEET MUSIC — RECORDS
ior squar. In his last year he led the MUSIC SUPPLIES

’ team in scoring. Call on

3 Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
eceinteiit last year to one of the biggest and brightest Phone 3.6881

ons: at a ao _ Much of this Pa veretae, comment is

 

Follow the rest of the boys ”

on his prowess at the game would be more or less superficial. Dave came to Dal in 1942 and for your Footwear to
‘is one thing we’re jolly well sure of, whether he can play good since then he has taken an active i |
rise. , he can at least “talk a great game,” and that my friends part in college sports. In his first '| SHANE’S SHOE-STORE

h "of an accomplishment, for two often both players and fans
rt in a contest 1 resignation, remaining unruffled and
on! “Sent oe tli Rees se urmntetig pedir winning the interfaculty trophy. Also that 456 -460 BARRINGTON ST.
and more seine than not being blissfully unconscious of what is ex oe ae year he played several basketball
around them. games for the Dalhousie Cubs.. This
e’re sorry to reoprt that previous commitments kept us from see-| year he played forward on the Intermediate football team, and at the
D . trounce Tech. in the opening game, for those that did go, we are} present time he is doing a capable job of centering the |high-powered

haere “honey” of a game—fast, exciting, with little colorful episodes | first line on Dal’s Senior hockey team. 7
ite. for good measure. Missing this outstanding sporting event we His favorite sport is hockey, although, oddly enough, it is not in this é@ Gr eton

year he played an important role on

397 BARRINGTON ST.  3-9144
the freshmen hockey team that won

   

d that the next best thing we could do would be to drop in and| game that his hardest and most exciting match was played. Tennis CI
sh the boys in one of their practice workouts. And what we saw] claims that honor and the outstanding event in Dave’s sporting career

 

gladden the heart of the team’s supporters, for the boys were skat- | was the 1941 tournament match in which he was playing for the N. S. in DALHOUSIE
oa: their passes were clicking, and they were going through their | Junior Men’s Double Title. Dave and his partner had lost the first set and WELCOME
kout with a vim and vigour that carried into their regular games is} were down one to five in the second when they made an excitingly bril- Halifax, Canada
on 2 to pring victories. liant comeback to win the match and the tournament at 3-6, 7-5, 6-2. ‘
os _ Down the right lane Dick Currie was madly tearing, or so it seemed, Besides hockey and tennis Dave plays a good game at ping-pong and TO
f ee a bit firmer, saa then the next thing we saw was the puck hbuatie the University tournaments. : | Host to the travelling | ;
fds by the head of the goaler. Currie seems to be a natural hockey player In the C.0,T.C, Dave was raised from [a corporal to a lieutenant aiiie sin 1858 BL AKFEI EY S
Bi hook , tough, a good skater, and a hard worker. He plays right wing shortly before leaving for Aldershot camp last summer on account of out- SEND Ce ve
ae on the line centered by that smooth playmaker, Dave Churchill-Smith. | standing ability shown in that line. Since his promotion he has won the Pe ae Thar ee ee roars | 43 Spring Garden Road “
HY _ On the other wing was Terry Lantz and the three were working as a well- | respect of the men in the ranks as well as his fellow officers for his effic- |
Bi oiled _machine—fast, efficient and powerful. In the game against Tech. | iency in. military matters, |
a ir line accounted for at least four goals. Dave, besides participating in sports, is Commerce representative to A Good Address ei

ay : Ei ‘The team is bolstered in the nets by some other than Ken MacKin-| the D.A.A.C. as well as President of the Commerce Society. With his
“non, President of the Students’ Council. Against Tech, we are told, he | many activities occupying much of his time he, nevertheless, maintains a
was superb, handling everything that came his way in such a manner| high scholastic standard. We take this opportunity to wish him the best

that Was a Constant annoyance to the opposing forwards. On defense is| of success in whatever field he may enter in the future.

r tiny” Bob Wade, but anybody underestimating the calibre of this player

2 better watch out for Bob packs a Merey bodycheck and really thrives when

PING-PONG—

the ets tough.

oe Day rect ee is a galaxy of stars. Of these, Marty MacDonald Dal Takes Opener; Mixed Doubles Tournament

heads the second line and is a constant threat every time he weaves his Monday , Feb. 7th, 8 p.m.

_ way through the defense and appears before the goaler, who on sight of Downs Tech 7-2 | oe the Dal Gy mi. OO ewe r

this lanky Medico is usually attacked by a sudden case of cold chills for , oo rie ee

_ Marty \ is a prolific scorer and seldom misses when close in. Bobby Mac- Dalhousie’s first game of the sea- Bai Bone ( Pat 2 tis eee

_ Donald, who missed the first game on account of a bad knee, seems to son in the league of St. Mary’s N. S. 'N ope of e “t ines ‘Il be

oh have what it takes and should further strengthen the team in their next Tech., H. M. C. S. Kines, and Dal. q oa ee Or pal ae wi

i game. Bobby is the aggressive type of player and his presence in the] too; place last Sunday afternoon singh a ‘li oe 1 fabs veishaag | ea c

re Bem will be welcomed by Dal. fans. against Tech. The ice at the Arena ore Hires Cy re heyy "

Peay Pa ‘The practise closed with a little skating competition. Although we was very bad which slowed the ner. Silver Cups to winners.
Pan no stop watch we came away with the impression that Graves and

game up somewhat, but even so the
> were the two fastest men on the ice, although many others, Lantz] fans saw a wide-open match. The

game opened fairly evenly since the
teams seemed well matched and although Dalhousie opened the scoring about the middle ot fhe first
period Tech quickly countered to
even the score. The second period
had hardly started before Tech took

 

 

 

 

YOUR SUITS WILL

a
OPS

Last Longer

When they go to Cousins |

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,

to keep them feeling soft and fresh to maintain «
shapely, stylish lines. A good wartime practice

is: Buy fewer clothes — send what you have

to Cousins often.

 

 

and Crowell in particular, were not far behind. All this just adds up to

an enthusiastic bunch of kids, with considerable hockey talent, preparing
elves to fight for top honors in their hockey league.

Anyone who wants a couple of hours of good entertainment or a

plete relaxation from their studies should not miss the next game
a fakes the i ice against H.M.C.S. Kings.

 
    
        
 
     
       
       
 

  

 

 
 

 

       
 

       

a } - of making a ecodt weeount of them. the lead, which it held for somewhat |
rs ee Tigers : less than a minute. After tying the e oi
Pei 6%"), } selves in later games this season. ; oa
Det hg L ; : ‘ Score up the gold and black went on OUST —
Lalston High Scorer The intermediate Cubs will meet |i the front soon after. ‘From then
ate: thie ee veam next Saturday night! | most of the play was on our op‘The Dal. Tigers basketball team, at the Y. M. C. A. ponent’s ice. The third period

 
    
     
 

  

ying a remarkable improvement| Dalhousie: Pope, Farquhar, Rals- showed the definite superiority of
- their last game, were defeated | ton 14; Hart 3; Knight 3; Giffin 2;) the Tigers in training, condition or
the Navy squad to the tune of | Vantour 4; Greene 3; McKelvey 4. what-have-you, since they scored
3. The game was played in the! Navy—Whalen 6; Hugo 2; Ruth-| four times while their opponents obgym. and was a fixture of the) erford 5; Hewitt, Cunningham 13; | tained the proverbial goose-egg. We

x Senior Basketball League. Lavandusty 2; Devitt 3; Sepella,| might add‘that the goal-tending of

ur Re Ralston, who entered the | Levantis 15. Ken MacKinnon played no small
_ game in the first half, when the Tig-| Referee: “Flash” Ruven. | part in holding the Tech boys’ score

      
       
     
     
     
     

oA
rau

  

 

 
     
 

Tern Aantal behind by ten points, was down,—many times he stood be- ah 7 g S he cpoCO's ux
ey: hig oh | scorer with a total of 14 points. GIRLS SPORTS tween them and a counter. The de- ¢ pi =
- Vantour and McKelvey came second ca fence, though rather light, was sur
 
  
   
   
    
   
   
     
    
   
   
 
 

    
  
    

Ne | es each. Top scorer of the| Thursday, Jan. 27th, the girls prisingly effective and most of the

By ame was Levantis of the aie from Shirreff Hall, played the City | time held our opponents to their own

owl 0 rapped in 15 points. girls in a very snappy game of bas-| end: the ability of the forward
» Navy opened the scoring with ketball. The latter took a fair beat-| lines can be seen in the score, Dal.

. it 5 pee shot just after the tip-off. ing despite the fact that some of 7; Tech. 2.

Hart opened the scoring for Dal. the Hall team were not the regular Reeeaps:

: o be when he sunk a foul shot. He was ey 0 4 ee pel ae Goal, MacKinnon; defence, Wade,

i Be: Ten. aioe Boon jn Sho mectng to lncuns pone | MEE, Craven; formas: Lens

ee ) Leet the Navy defence. The play | 2™¢s with Mount A. and Acadia. Wilson, Flynn. , : i

was fairly even in the first half with | 4 few badminton enthusiasts also isi Crowell, Snuges
he 2 ‘teams checking hard. The fast. turned out, braving the cold wintry Baiake: f :
real of the Navy forwards and nese

  
 
 
 
 
   
  

THE silky strokes you
get from MIRADO’S
smooth lead will make
you purr like a contented cat. You won’t
be irritated by broken
oints. MIRADO will
e off your mind and on
the job—always. It’s
more than a pleasure, its
a real economy.

5¢ each—less in quantities

 
  
      
 

  
    
  
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
  
      
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

  
  
  
    
  
   
     
  
 
  
 

   
 
   
 

] : Certified with am back
First Period guarantee in pens re

1. Dalhousie, C, Smith (Lantz)
D.G. A.C. hereby challenge | 4210.

the boys to an ice hockey | 2. Tech., Tracy (Bishop) 13.50.

 

 

 
 
 
    
   
    
    
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
   

  
   

    
 

   
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
  
  
 

game any day next week. Renalties—Wade (Dal).
Boys’ Kundicaps: 1 skate, | Second Period
| broom-stick! 3. Tech., Tracy 0.47. Super.
Girls’ handicaps — none | 4. Dal. Currie (Lantz) 1.27. E Pp f |
ae 5. Dal, MaeDonald (Vincent) PEN Covered with
4.07. e
- Third Period 1 ARE GU CILS Neilson’s smooth
, 6, Dal., Currie 1.15. ; ARANTEED French-style Chocolate
are as follows:

? ST :

7. Dal, Currie (Ch.-Smith) 2.10. | | | sovee SMOOTHER, |
8. Dal., MacDonald (Wilson) 5.17. GER WEARING |
9 Dal., Ch.-Smith, 14.30, OR Your
_Penalties—Wade (Dal)

 
 
 
 

baer eee ee

 
   
   
  

 
