ef .
A ii! op 4

oy
La cnt ahs
vi ah

Z

CAMP US
CLIPPINGS

‘BY JOHN: HIBBITTS

“To. ‘Eugene Merry, _ Pharmacy
fireball, and editor of this column
for the past year and a half, the
Gazette extends its‘ sincere wishes

> for success in the new field he has
set out to conquer, the R.C.A-F.
| —Ed. Note.

| Since this “happens to be Leap
%. Year, here is a bit of timely advice
for the love-lorn male who wishes

to stay that way. So take heed!

If she shows a rounded knee as she
settles in your fliver,
_ And it is obvious to see, she is trying to shiver,
i She’s a wolfess!

*h, If, ‘ane! winks a ean eye as she
sits across the table,
And her gown’s as low and sly a as
any worn by Grable,
- She’s a wolfess!

ie her eye begin to gleam as she
bids you to come in,
xe she twists each stocking seam
and turns the lights down dim,
She’s a wolfess!

If she swings her slinky hips and
she smothers you with glamor;
, If she licks her tempting lips in a
coy and subtle manner,
She’s a wolfess.

tt she fidgets with your tie and pre_ tends to act demure
oe As she breathes a tender sigh and
then dishes out allure,
She’s a wolfess!

yrs accidentally trips, and you
pick her up with care,
“When you feel fingertips gently runbi ning through our hair,
Ae ‘She’ s a wolfess!

Bi ghe whispers “What a moon,” and
- her head begins to tilt,

And she croons a sultry tune, ’till
your knees begin to wilt,

fy be _ She's a wolfess!

| Now the moral of this ditty, you
_/ cannot afford to shirk; :
iq Tt i is true in every city, if the dammi sel wears a shirt,
She’ s a wolfess!
MeDill Daily—CUP
“Here's: one for our many streetfe. r commutors:
‘i > Street cars are a great method
; of | transportation, especially these
, ‘days, but to keep up the old tune—
"we find them appalling. A couple
ie of days ago while fighting our way
Ns Re igapbliwatd on a south-bound Belty line car, we (the car) finally came
to Henry Street. ‘The conductor, a

_, female of the species, called out, |

9

“Henry, Henry, HENRY. At the
goa point in this frenzied appeal,
_ from the back of the “big” -yell-t
came

THE OLDEST COLLEGE

Bite

PAPER IN AMERICA

HALIFAX, N.S., JANUARY 14, 1944

‘sualties Light” Registrar Reports |

9 Advised To Withdraw

Can. Engineering J ournal
Raps C.O. T. C. Training

[Following is an editorial which appeared recently in The Engineering

Journal, the monthly publication of The Engineering Institute of Canada,

and which has been released for publication in Canadian university paper.
Since the topic is of the utmost importance to all male Dalhousie students,
not only in engineering but in all faculties, the Gazette takes pleasure

in reproducing the éntire editorial.

The C.0.T.C. has long been a sore

spot with Dalhousians, and the Gazette, as the voice of the student body,

would appreciate comment on thie controversial topic.

Ed. Note. ]

WHAT IS WRONG WITH C.O0.T.C.?
~ University students always find something about which to
grumble, but never has there been so widespread and so common complaint as that about the Canadian Officers Training
Corps. A visit with the students in any university reveals that
this is the first thing they are ready to talk about.

The Institute’s interest in this lies principally in the fact
that engineering students from practically every university
have asked for assistance in exposing conditions which they
claim are unfair, unreasonable, and wasteful of time and energy.
The almost unanimous agreement among students of all universities indicates a state of affairs which requires thoughtful

consideration by the proper officials.

The opinion of members

of the staffs seems to support the complaints of the students.

The complaints are these:

(a) The work is very elementary,
and the same programme is folowed
every year for four years. The student in his senior year invariably
feels that six hours a week have
been totally wasted. He has learned

nothing that would be of value in

the event of an invasion, or that is
of use to him if subsequent to graduation he joins the Army. This
repetitive work, of high school cadet
grade, bores the student of university calibre. Many claim that their
performance is worse at the end of
four years than it was when they
started.

(b) No eredit is given for all this
drill when the student enlists in the
Army. On the other hand, the Navy
and Air Force allow their eandidates reasonable credit for the work
they do in the University Naval
Division and University Air Training Corps. What is even more,
since their programmes are much
farther advanced than that of the
Army, the boys maintain an interest
in them and actually get some benefit from them. If the training of the
C.0.T.C. is not worth anything to
the Army, it is a mild statement to
say there would seeem to be something wrong with it.

(c) The time taken by drill could
be used to better advantage in studies. Every engineer knows that
an engineering course is not easy.
Most students require all the time
they can get to master it. Six hours
a week is over 15 per cent of a
work-week, and in four years
amounts to almost a hundred workdays. That is:a lot of time to spend
at learning how to shoulder arms!

(d) The regulations are not interpreted uniformly. Some universities have practically eliminated all
@/C.0.T.C. work in the senior year.
Others have been allowed to reduce
the time requirement and others are
still doing six hours. It is possible

e that the responsibilities for these
a deep _masctiline voice, |

variations lie with the universities
themselves. and not with National

i Defence, but the fact remains that
teat irregularities exist, to the dis
pn of hundreds of students.

system can be changr i mils some
Me es A Da gs ge irs

day night is a

Why Friday?
Asks Student

(Contributed)

“Six nights shalt thou work and
on Friday night thou shalt dance”
seems to be on of the commandments
the student council has set up for
Dal this last year. Admittedly Friconvenient one on
which to hold many college functions
but it is by no means unique in this
respect, On the contrary strong objection has been raised to Friday
night by many students, including
those taking Bio 1, Med students and
Arts, Science and Engineering students.

Two other nights are free from
training, and are available for student functions, and it is a sad commentary on the lack of initiative by
the council and student societies that
these have hitherto not been used.
Of these the most favourable is
Saturday night, an evening that is
free for the majority of students.
The old objection to Saturday night,
namely that “everything stops at
twelve” has now disappeared, since
it has become the rule that all dances
in the Gym must now end at twelve
o’clock. Another night that has
been overlooked in this respect is
Wednesday. This year there is no
regularly scheduled C.O.T.C. training for this night, and it is quite
probable that affairs could be held
on Wednesdays if anyone had the
initiative to try.

Nor need the Council feel it is
taking a radical step by sanctioning
functions on other nights. Senior
students can recall when Tuesday
held the hallowed position that Friday now seems to have, and when
to suggest holding an affair on any
other night would have been considered sheer folly.

Nevertheless a litle more initiative
on the part of the Council and leaders of student societies would surely
be appreciated by many students
since it would result in less interference with studies, 4nd hence a
better support and attendance for

Fe raat: activities would be ensured.

Bicdiakeld Group

Started at Dal

A students’ discussion group in
affiliation with the CBC program
“Of Things To Come” has been organized at Dal. The general purpose of the program is to lay a
solid foundation for a better postwar world by ensuring that the
public has a clear view of the problems involved in post-war reconstruction.

The group will meet in -the Arts
Building each Tuesday at 9 p.m.
At 9.30 the CBC broadcast on the
week’s topic featuring some outstanding figure in the political, educational, industrial or labor field
will be heard. Immediately following this the members will participate
in a general discussion of the points
raised in the broadcast. Pamphlets
dealing with the main aspects of the
week’s topic are also available, and
those interested can gain a general
picture by reading the pamphlet
prior to the meeting.

At present, Mr. George McAllister,
Research Assistant for the University is acting chairman, but plans
are to elect student officers for the
meeting in the near future. It is
planned to have members of the
armed services participate in the discussions, thus enabling students to
learn how other groups are thinking ubout problems that are common to all Canadians,

This week the subject was “The
Right to be Healthy.” The subject
for discussion on Tuesday, Jan. 18,
will be “The School Comes First”,
folowed in successive weeks by “A
Man’s Own Castle” a discussion of
homes and housing, “The Constitutional Barrier” dealing with the
B.N.A, Act, and “One People—Two
Cultures” on the French Canadian
problem. It is hoped that students
will show their interest in these
vital problems by attending the
forums.

$ $ Dance Date
Reshuffled to 18th

The Millionaires Ball, annual fete
of the Commerce Society, and which
was originally scheduled as the
term’s first dance, for Jan. 7, but
was drowned in the backwash of the
flu epidemic and the resulting extra
week of vacation, will still be held,
Dance Committee Chairman David
Churchill-Smith announced yesterday. The Dance is now slated for
Feb. 18, and Commerce Society
members swear only an outbreak of
the Black Death will be able to
cancel it.

Alumni Association to
To Be Hosts to Males

Plans are proceeding apace for
the big smoker to be held next
Friday night by the Alumni Association of Dalhousie, and a most interesting and entertaining gathering
is asured for. all those privileged to
attend, authoritative sources forecast in an exclusive interview this
week. All male members of every
faculty who are atending the university for the first time, as well as
the graduating classes of all facul
e

Flu Stops Many Writing

Satisfaction with the results of the recent examinations as
a whole, with “fewer casualties” reported than*in the corresponding exams last year, was expressed by Registrar C. L.

Bennet yesterday, when interviewed bythe Gazette.

Only nine

students were advised to withdraw from the University by the

Committee of Studies, but a number of others,

“with satisfac
tory records” have also left to join the armed services or do
war work, The influenza epidemic, which struck the campus
hard in the two weeks preceding examinations, was held responsible for some lowering of the marks, and the Committee of
Studies is examining the records of some students who were
unable to write any of the exams, with a view of advising
them according to their previous scholastic performances.

per

Boilermakers Ball
Set For Jan. 28

The Engineering Society, whose
members, the “40-beer men”, have
long live-wired campus activities,
has announced, with due fanfare of
trumpet and clang of cymbal, that
the annual red-hot sweet and swing
session, the Engineers Ball, will be
held two weeks from today, on
Friday, January 28. Further revelations on this important topic will be
flashed on an anticipating Dalhousie
next week. The Ball will be held at
the Nova Scotian Hotel, tickets $3.50
and “no corsages” will be the order
of the day—or night.

At a meeting of the Engineering
Society on Thursday, besides plans
for the Boilermakers’ Ball, the
foundations were laid for the annual
Engineers’ Banquet. The tentative
dates are Feb. 18 or 25, and the
Committee, under capable B. Hagen,
includes J. Winterbourne, P. Payzant, Wickwire and G. Lantz.

Messrs. Burgess and Yeadon were
appointed to audit the Society’s
books and a committee, G. Oakley,
Carl Little and G. Howard was named to decide on the annual Bob
Walters Memorial Award. It was
also decided the Society would undertake the production of an Engineering Edition of the Gazette sometime during February.

ties, are on the guest list, and will
receive personal invitations by mail.

The smoker is the first step in
the Alumni Associations new policy
‘of getting in closer touch with the
present student body, an association
which can be of inestimable value
to present day Dalhousians. The
Gymnasium has been obtained for
the affair.

“The marks were
than last year,” said Professor
Bennet. “There was a smaller percentage of complete and _ partial
failures, and failures were more
evenly distributed among the various classes.” Since students eannot repeat or carry over any classes
into another year, fewer than usual
were advised to drop classes, he
pointed out.

“Without the ‘flu epidemic, the
marks might have been even better,” Professor Bennet declared, and
added that the Committee had taken
the widespread illness into account
when examining marks. A number
of students missed one or more
exams, and a few were unable to
write any. The Committee of Studies examined the records of these
students, and will treat them
cording to their scholastic,
since this seemed the fairest method
of reaching a decision. A numbhe~
of those who missed exams have er
pressed their willingness to ~77':
them, although their marks in -v*
cases would not go on their Tnivsity records.

Nine students were
withdraw from the Universit
the Committee after examination of
their records. Three of these were
freshmen, and six from advanced
classes. All of these expressed their
willingness to accept the Facultv’s
advice,,and most of them have joined
the armed services, alons with
several other students who left the
University during the vacation.
though their records were satisfactory to continue their studies.

Quieting the trepidation of a number of students, Professor Bennet
declared the extra week of holidavs,
from January 5 to 11, granted unexpectedly during vacation because
of the ’flu epidemic, would not have
to be made up at the end of the
year, unless present plans ave
changed. “We’ll just work a little
harder every week to make it up,”
he said.

much better

ar.

level

adviser
7 5

SPORT FLASHES

No matter how good a hockey team is, it is useless without
someone to play against. This was the dilemma the Dalhousie
team faced until this week. Now the problem is solved, with

the formation of a league made up of H.M.C.S. Kine’s

, Saint

Mary’s College, and Dalhousie. The league schedule has not vet
been announced. First practice for the Dal team will be next
Tuesday, January 17, from 1 to 2 p.m.

: . ‘

*

* ES

Dalhousie’s first basketball game of the season will get

under way Saturday evening at the Halifax Y.M.C.A.

Tt will

be an intermediate game, but many Dal stars will annear and
good support from the sidelines by college fans is honed for.

* ok

It has just been announced that Vincent Fereuson has
accepted the post of coach for the Dalhousie hockey team. His

appointment is still pending
Council before becoming final.

‘ratification by the Students’

® mil:

tai D cise edo Ri

 
 
  
  

 
  
 

          
   

Ba
ut

* ¢

j met
Ht

    

Dalhousie |, Gazette
: | Ty of the Gllege by the Sea

Undergraduate Publication ff"
Founded 1869 — “The Oldest College Paper in America”

: The views expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
the author; it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of
the Student Body.

       
   
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
    
    
    
 

   
   
   
 
       
  

Editor-in-Chief ................ HUSA eee aoe Sdee eo Ted Shields

ies: Business Manager ........... Fa ee ele widhet eco) Bln dg se) 0 dikes < Kevin Barry
ee CEE COE Oe nem ba eho i oo Jim McLaren
mere. DORCUEO PCMORSE ie0 4:4 ean s0.ce on Vanes Bob McCleave, Eileen Phinney
et poe ain apn pecans tienes acta Ss eawie Sida e Sek widl'g L8D S's w aves ert sone
mie ; ‘ as ; itera RENE Ti meat EA oh shone UP RIE Whe dono de elSoc'e u Collins
iv (Ed. Note—The following works of outstanding and Reliant literary Phitoaiaphon Dip eda bii'w Kae we sad x elerdidils 9% K. Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
ment were discovered during the Christmas vacation by a member of Pee a UM a Ae aS Sh eS ilk ers b didie Saw dels vale Laurie Smith

ette staff who unwittingly strayed into the Law Library while] ©.U.P. and, Exchange..................00000000! John Hibbetts

 
 

: King for a canteen. Immediately recognizing their priceless value
e annals of Canadian literature, he appropriated them as a heritage
lalhousie posterity. The author, or authors, are cloaked in anonymity,
their fame will live in their deathless verse].

Reporters: Jim Campbell, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley
Bob Kimball, Betty Atkins, Marg Morrison

  
  

 

 

 

 
  
 

— RESOLUTION

By April they’ll be

Yet, recognizing where

Is your success.

January 1, 1944.

.
me Out of the murk of the fading
| _ college year has come a tale of triid ii _ umph (in the main) over trial and |
> ae tribulation. Fleeing to the shigh-'
Be "7 i lands of Cape Breton, a_ student
gasped, and pointed to the germ___ trod trail over which he had come,
and said, “Now I am_ preserved
from IT.” In truth he was remarkre: ably pickled. The germs never got
to Cape Breton; they weren’t hardy
Be! enonch. | |
From the scourge also fled apple
«growers to the Valley, potatoeaters to New Brunswick, and fox__eurryers to Prince Edward Island.
‘Their tales were, one and the same,
identical: ‘FLU’ was rampant in
Halifax, had smitten dozens, was
“Students who went to bed reasonably well at night woke up in the
; ee morning feeling lower than lowdown. Students who had it the
night before took sleeping tablets
‘so they wouldn’t have this mourn-ing-after the night before.
n Ounce of Prevention.—Mindf the plague of IT, kindly stud
i
\s

%
|
nA

from their door. Chief deused by Pine Hiller-dillers was
hing scrawl rampant on leftte paper: If you don’t want
, flee. ,

Is An Empty Bottle of Cure:

“ees an) dal é °
We A i e
Lf ." | ae + ro

PP ei %

* 9
:

 
 
 
 

Bb Neat
ll ns iP?
of Oe ui? p
4 SAM ae
Pee Yok \ =
f Ce if Re A) ad j |
Ma : eth
als Lo se, ral at psa.
= , a te

it
“

   

:

     

 

M i7/~.

 

be getting home.”

  
 

| The stag at eve had drunk his fill
- The hungry lawyers are here still
To be appeased they never will

fit to kill.
—Apologies to Scott.

 

| APPRECIATION

"Tis glad we are to hear Mac’s measured treads
Surcease it brings to tired and aching heads
Farewell to Anson, Blackstone and the rest
Succumb to Morpheus, be his willing guest.

—Apologies to Gray.

REPLY TO MAC
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey,
Where students sleep before the close of day.
Princes and lords may rest when ’ere they please;
They’ll die no less than what their birth decrees;
But strenuous work, the students chiefest pride,
When once forestalled may never be supplied;
For in that upward strife towards the top
Sleep is less a guardian, more a gop.

their future lies,

The nights do never lull them unless ambition dies.

With Deepest Apologies
To Oliver Goldsmith.

REPLY—ANONYMOUS.

With apologies to nobody.

By Jove! in verse of elegant but borrowed strain
My legalistic bard chants forth his adverse claim.
Plagiarism to such as he, ’tis but a legal art,

An excellent display of teaching’s fruitless part.
’"Twere better far my learned bard had noted well
That Sleep’s a rest and not Oblivion’s voidless spell,
Refreshing as the dew which bathes Parnassus’ height
So ever dawns the morn with an unfolding light.
Dear friends and critic now I pray adieu,

* Of metre’s rules and laws I know but few.

But my sincerest hope and earnest prayer

Well may you fare.

 

tif you don't want the 'flu, flee:
Students Writhe On Agony-Cots
Bd Saturday Calls End Of Exams

outside his door, with the words
“Month’s rations used up.” Students paused but little, tarried not.
He however caught the flu by kissing an English 11 exam. paper
(Engineering section).

Students dropped like flies
through flu while writing examinations. You could see them, writing
gamely along until they. got to a
tough question.
ed, their pulses sang in the manicured paws of nurses, thermometers
bursted; you could hear their moans
raise to crescendo, and they wearily
lugged their carcasses out of the
gymnasium. It was unadulterated
pathos.

Flu—One bright and _ cheery
youngster lay on his flu-cot at Pine
Hill. His eyes were shot in the pallor of agony and decease; his cheeks
laboriously fell and fell, in the last
stages of emaciation. A _ pretty
maid brought his tray in the room;
poor boy was so ill he had to be fed
with a spoon.

Fiu.—Suddenly he looked at the
calendar; “damn it all,” he said.
“Examinations are qver. I should
He got.

So you ean see how bad it was.
There was not a soul with the energy to move until the examinations
were over. And that was how the
flu fled Dalhousie. Saturday morn
nusual device by one engineering quiet and repose rested on a
put an empty Scotch bottle 'studentless city.

Their heads whirl
Once again the bells have rung,
horns have blown, and clocks across
the Dominion have boomed the midnight hour to welcome a new year.
1943 has gone the way of all Old
Years to the limbo of memories, and
1944 is already hurtling down the
first lap of his 366-day dash. And
after the long, unexpectedly so,
Christmas vacation, Dalhousie has
reopened for the second term of
what may be one of the most significant years for the whole world since
th dawn of history.

“Tempus Fugit,” we have no
doubt was a trite expression even
when Julius Caesar was dividing
Gaul into three parts; nevertheless,
the fact that Time still Flies as fast
as it did then should be realized by
every university student. It should
be blazoned on Dalhousie’s walls,
and written on Dalhousie’s blackboards. It is, in fact, the reason we
are hereby pointing out that though
one set of exams has just been finished, another, and more important
set, is still ahead, and not as far
ahead as all too many smug calendar-glancers would convince themselves.

We will bring up this salient point
later in the term, but the time for
good resolutions is now.

Dalhousie students may well
make another resolution, a_ resolution to continue their generous support of the work started last term
by the Blood Donor Society and carried out with conspicuous success.
There is every reason to believe,
trom the tone of recent military dispatches, the invasion of Hitler’s
stronghold will soon get under way.
Millions of men will be involved,
and casualties will be numbered in
tens of thousands, among them Canadians. As the fury of battle
mounts, the call for blood plasma
and more blood plasma will be urgent. Students who have not joined
the Blood Donor Society must do so
now; those who gave a pint of blood
before Christmas must give another, and another. There is no pain,
the inconvenience is slight. The
least every Dal student can do is
resolve to give a pint of blood every
two months until victory.

Many student activities, basketball, badminton, dances, debates, are
planned for the coming term, and,
it is rumored, lots of hard work too.
A New Year—a new term—a new
chance to make your own destiny:
the Gazette wishes every student
luck and success in 1944.

 

AN HONOR ROLL -- WHEN?

As the dawn of invasion grows ever brighter, millions of men stand
ready to storm Fortress Europe, to smash their way through the Westwall and straight to the heart of the ruins which was once called “Berlin.” Spearheading the attack will be Canadian forces, and well to the
fore, it is certain, will be the fighting sons of Dalhousie.

The men who have gone out from Forrest and Studley and donned
the uniforms of His Majesty’s Forces have already shown themselves, in
Africa, in Sicily and Italy and -on the Atlantic, worthy of the proud Can
adian tradition they bear. Now, as

our five-year war reaches the stage

of its greatest battles, we may be sure the sons of Dalhousie will bring
new lustre, the illumination of courage and daring and resourcefulness,

to the name of their Alma Mater.

>

Dalhousie is proud of these’ men, of that there can be no doubt; she
is proud of their records, and certain they will hold her honor high in
the days to come; well does she realize the vast debt of gratitude is
owing them, a debt that can never be paid.

Yet the students of today look in vain on the Dalhousie campus for

a public recognition of the names of

their predecessors who are now car
rying the name of their university to new heights of valor. A Roll of

Honor would not be an expensive or

a difficult undertaking, yet it would

be a tangible demonstration of the deep pride of Dalhousie in her fighting

sons. The Students’

Association, should be able to

Council, in cooperation perhaps with the Alumni
arrange for the placing of a suitable Roll

of Honor, inscribed with the names of Dalhousians now in the forces, in

some prominent place, as a symbol
over four years of war have already
be started NOW.

of the University’s gratitude. But
gone by—such an undertaking must

RR tear eae eaten Ns Se

ENGINEERING, JOURNAL
RAPS C€.O.T.C. TRAINING
Continued from page 1

of National Defence does not give
any credit for this military training
when the student actually enters the

thing can be done for the future. |Army has tended to create the im
Unless the Journal has been misinformed, injury is*being done to the
morale of this group of useful citizens, Surely it is not necessary.

 

The following is quoted from the
annual report of McGill’ University
over the signature of the principal,
Dr. F. Cyril James.

“Although there is no student feeling against the idea of military
training (which in fact evoked an
enthusiastic response from the student body during the early years of
the war) it must be confessed that
there is a growing resentment
against the monotony of the present
syllabus and against the attitude of
whole scheme. The syllabus now in
effect is not sufficiently progressive,
especially when it is remembered
that the university undergraduates
are, on the average, more intelligent
than other groups of young men;
and the fact that the Department |

pression that it is a waste of time.
If, on his enlistment, a student who
has had three or four years of training is placed in the same category as
other recruits who have had no military training whatever, it is hard
for him to think that military training at universities serves any useful
purpose,

All of these influences upon student morale and esprit de corps
must, of course, be appraised against
the background of the atmosphere
that war has created in Canada.
Students share the general anxiety
during periods when the outlook is
dark, and participate in the spiritual
exhilaration that follows on the
heels of victory. Many of them
come from homes where one or more
members of the family are on active
service, and all of them are troubled
from time to time regarding the
usefulness to Canada of the work

that they are doing,”

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

  

-_
—'

" =z

  

    
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
     
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
  
    
   
    
     
   
  
    
    
  
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
    
     
 
 
  
   
  
     
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
    
  

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES, PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

It Takes All Kinds

If it were not for the sales
of gem diamonds, the price
of industrial diamonds would
rise.

In other words, one gem
diamond provides three industrial diamonds for war
work,

Quality Shoes
For Fall . .

Compliments of

Wallace Bros.
ows Henry Birks & Sons
Limited ve
Limited
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

415 BARRINGTON ST.

Halifax, N. S.

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
@

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

  
 

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

  

 

- FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of: Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas; Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standin , leading t
of M.A., M.Se. g ng to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrartce and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about

° 160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a waa

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
h
cooperative spirit aimed at
ke - pace with the “After the

war—what” effort, the Dalhousie
- Gazette will sponsor a contest to

a be known as “What will we do with
tee Hitler?” The contest, in the form

of essay writing, will run from now
until the next to last issue, and all
winning entries will be announced
then. Up until the deciding date,
entries will be published as received.

PRIZES, good ones too, will be

awarded for first, second and third
place winners.

HITLER—the beast at prey. For
just about nine years Adolf had
things his own way in Central
Europe. A cancer on the heart of
the world, a career of passion, a
strange, other-worldly, screaming
Chaplinesque figure, a harsh and
Frankenstein reality for a pantomine
puppet, he broke the efforts of the
nations to keep Germany as a power

Bete

=

Us sg , ‘
f Pe , a
cr} ty a 2 { = 4 7 - »
Vy \ :
= Y ’
vs
:

rl Be
Hitler? Contest
on status quo basis. Swift and
bloodless conquests, then swift and
almost bloodless conquests established him as the prospective man
of the century, and the new crusader whose name would echo through
pages of German history. Then,
somehow, he overreached himself.
England undaunted, Russia indomitable, Roosevelt, and above all
Stalin and Churchill, the R. A. F.
bombings, the Eight Army, unpronounceable names of very real Russian Generals...

ADOLF — Beast at bay. Today
Hitler has nothing to offer his people. The gory road to success has
turned out to be a reverse path to
ruin. “What will we do with Hitler”
—don’t be profane about it; give a
realistie scheme for giving him his
desserts, or—if you want to let him
off hide-unscorched, say so. But—
SAY SO.

speak English, or how to make concise expression in

UNIVERSALITY

ARTS—SO WHAT?

¢ In our introductory lecture last week, we asked the question, is it the
purpose of an Arts course to teach a man the principles of reasoning,
while admitting the inconstancy of ideas, or to give the individual a
healthy whack of dogma upon which to feed his intellectual ego. Our
answer, implied, was that it was the second, though the first was the
common method. Our answer, for the purpose of this lecture, is that we
will have to accept the inevitable, and that the first is right. After all,
we can not change truth to suit ourselves. The second apology we make
is a promise for a combined article on arts and science. A change of
schedule will bring it as an introduction to our series on medicine and
engineering, while this lecture will serve to introduce subsequent lectures
on commerce, music, religion, education and law.
In a brief few paragraphs it is impossible to give more than a general
outline of the subject of Arts. What is Arts ?—it is the application of
practicality, rationality and the beautiful to every day life. Having got
so far, we will disregard this in the approved manner of many lecturers.
At college, for practical purpose, we gain an insight into each of these
various components of Art. Let us consider a few courses:

History—every part of our heritage has reason behind it. The fact
that they fit oddly into our civilization now is no reason to query the
intelligence of the simpletons who produced them. Aximatically, we also
have to consider that while the various manifestations common to any
life may appear on the surface to be different, their common root is the
same. For example, the attraction between people: now it is SEX, in the
19th century it was SENTIMENTALITY, and in the Middle Ages singleness of DEVOTION (though don’t be deceived by this too much. When
the knights crooned sweet protestations of love into the shy damsel’s ear,
they were thinking of that cute chicken, the nut-brown maiden around
the corner). As a result, the people of the future should not laugh at
our pin-up girls (the paper dolls we call our own)just as we should not
laugh at the monks in the desert who were suffering from their ascetism,
in mental torment at the images of lovely ladies.

Languages—as the college student said, Scotch is great, though Welch
is milder. First thing to consider in taking languages, is to make the
broadest and most impossible leap possible to know them. For example,
jump at Latin right off the bat. Why not work back to Latin through
French and Spanish? You start impossibly and you never work your
way down to our present age. The result is the ultra-classicist. The
reason for the present system, though, is the great classical literary
heritage As a result a lot of practical linguistic ability is always lost,
but some education is gained.

Philosophy—while this will be treated in fuller detail in our article
on Religion, it is wise to get some knowledge of it now. In brief, it is
making impossible answers to impossible questions. ‘‘What is priosmacocious of the East Indian in relation to the heritage we have received from
the hippochondriac school of prigmatism?” The answer, of course, is
a hearty intellectual belch from between your whiskers.

Psychology and the mental sciences—psychology is gradually taking
over the world. A new and precocious science, it has created repressions
for some, made others extroverts, taken away the old fashioned spanking
to substitute a peculiar form of mother love or ignorance, became very
democratic in its conclusions on the individuality and resultant irresponsibility of any man. As a result, we have accepted as gospel what should
have been science.

Political Science and the social sciences—the study of how man lives,
with his fellow men. It is to psychology what social punch is to the
spirited hootch you purchase from a bootlegger and indulge in on your
own; in other words, it is shy and retiring and not as daring as the
latter is.

Mathematics—to be treated as a science.

English—in fifty years time, even the dullest in memory of us will
remember our English classes. Why ?—because we can still read English.
The essays we wrote on “Pragmatism is the skeptic” or “The Economic
Phases of a Deflated Dollar” will seem so much malarkey to us; we won’t
be able, even with cribs, to read our translation of Horace and Caesar;
all the math we ever forgotten will be just so much more happy memories
to us. But English, as in English 2, will go on forever. It’s easy to)
reconcile oneself to the inevitability of things in this way. English
courses, in short, may be described as-the study of what we should speak,

write and think. It is not requisite to the course that you know how to
the language.

The beauty of Arts is the appreciation it gives you. A scientist looks
at an auto accident as an experiment in mechanics which failed; a lawyer
as business; a doctor the same; a minister as a moral triumph; but the
Arts student, gentle harbinger and carrier of culture, breaks down

and cries.

NYY ray
Tara Es

and be Cat 1 ib

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”, We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking

Powder and Dried Fruits. ,

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.
Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
"| Founded in Halifax in 1841

¥

yt 1
AY Caer ie a acc,” bata
Le bb! a ad vb f

OE
Ss '

At Fifty, A Farmer, and Potato - Barrel
Philosopher Begins Life Anew

It was a dull Autumn day, with
gusts of rain and grey sweeps of
lifeless clouds, too lacking in content
to do anything but make the occasional dizzle, On Dalhousie Campus

it was the registration day for the
new college year, fittingly enough it
was the day for the out of town
students. For newcomers it was an
unimpressive and aching start for
their college careers, the careers
they had looked forward to with
glib hope and optimism.

At the Registrar’s office, the machinery of the business section of
the University was at full hum.
Hundreds of application cards,
course cards, report cards, were busily streaming into the harassed
Registrar’s office. With heavy-lidded eyes peering over his spectacles,
the Registrar pencilled, stroked
quick marks, and blue-pencilled with
approval the college courses. Occasionally a new student would enter
for advise. Occasionally he would
get it in large quantities.

An upright man of good height
and build, and about fifty years of
age made his appearance in the
office. Quizzical small-fry among
the students looked at him, noting
with. sophistication his well-tanned
face, rather homely, but with firm
features, and his wrinkled neck.
Plainly a farmer they said, anc
looked for his son or daughter.
There was none. He disappeared
into the inner sanctum of the business life of the University, and then
into the Registrar’s office.

Life can be a series of surprises
but never really shocks. And the
Registrar was shocked, when the
visitor introduced himself as Ronald
Cleophile Hartz, and announced he
wanted to go to college. Raised
from his usual quiescence to the
innate and overdone grace of a
toreador disnosing of a bull, he rose
to meet Mr. Hartz. “Old Hartz’,
he said to himself in his mind but
dared not say it as if he were saying
“Young Smith” to a student. Nevertheless the contrast was very real,
and foremost in his mind. He wanted to laugh at the upright figure
dof old age before him.

At fifty years, Hartz had been
veteran of two Great Wars, had
lived the rough and hearty hand to
mouth existence of lumberjack,
farmer and fisherman. Jack of these
trades, he was master at farming.
Between wars he had finally established a small dairy farm as a paying concern which now, in the impetus of an enlightened provincial
farm program, was bearing fruit and
sustaining his old age.

He was a dreamer, despite the
realism of his existence, and a student of ill-trained sorts. With a
wistful wonder for books, he had
read copiously, and had some remnants of his high-school education
of thirty-five years before. He was
seeking to enter Dalhousie as a
sophomore. The casual and pimpled
faces of the group of youngsters
outside had not shaken his belief
that college was for the godly.

A native of a small town in
Lunenburg County, his family’s original name was Hartzman. They
had dropped the -man to cloak their
German ancestry, and under the
new name it was hardly more apvarent than before. His middle name
Cleophile, was a mixture of indifferent Greek and (mother) love.

The Registrar was seeing in realm
life what had seemed to him to be
an almost forgotten incident. A few
weeks before, he had received a report from someone name Hartz that
a successful sweep of Grade XII
provincial examinations had been

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday
“IT’S A GREAT LIFE”
“BOY FROM STALINGRAD”

Wednesday - Thursday

“HOLY MATRIMONY”

“ADVENTURE IN THE
IRIQUOIS”

Friday - Saturday
“SKY IS THE LIMIT”

hey eet

“Life

a

completed. The marks had been
good, so good that the man’s record
was not queried any further. And
he was a man, an old man, by college standards.

There seemed little point in giving
him blank refusal. This would
never do. You know, a college has
to play fair. So the Registrar tried
to argue him out of his plan.
“Really, it’s such a place for youth,
and you might find it difficult to
establish friendships here... ”

Every try to argue with somebody
from Lunenburg? No, well that’s
what happened. With the solid
reality of cold cash in his pocket,
and the dreams of four years—four
years in which he had studied for
his Grade XII—Hartz would not be
denied. He had been told he could
come, and he was coming. And he
gave one powerful statement, simply
said, telling for his argument:

“There’s been a lot of talk about
Universities teaching trade-training
instead of education. Well, from
economics I’d say that when somebody wants something, the supply
will drift in that direction. In this
hustlin’ world, nobody’s going to
take over four years for education
and then take training. They’re going to take training, and you’ve had

|to give it to them.

“Now, sir, I figure it’s us old fellows, with a yearning for book
learning, who can keep up this stuff
they call Arts. The young men can
take Engineering and Science, but

GARRICK

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday

“HENRY ALDRIDGE HAUNTS
THE HOUSE”

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday
“MOONLIGHT IN HAVANA”

“THE FALCON AND THE
CO-ED”

ORPHEUS

Mon., Tues., Wed., Thursday
“OKLAHOMA KID”

*

Friday and Saturday
“MYSTERY BROADCAST”

“BORDERTOWN GUN
FRONTIER”

Ss.

= > i " - ; F, a P
. , : 4, : + | + + ’ ¥
fi 7 1) 5

a Eee

vtshy >see F 7% —= - i a de
aay - rae, H a a ¥ ize fal

as By —_ veal WEST § ae “4 BA is f 1S oe eae)
training, but a lot of us have never

realized a desire for education.”

At 50 years of age, Hartz became
a freshie-sophomore, was taking Economics, Physics, Philosophy, English II and History. At fifty he
faced initiation, younger people,
you people haven’t tapped the re-/| football, dancing, alcoves in Shirreff
serve of older folk who want to/| Hall, and a campus-full of people he
come to college. We don’t want | would have to conquer.

(To be continued)

egins

tudent

“IT DOES TASTE GOOD IN A PIPE if

B.Sm., Bachelor of Smoking, is a great
degree. It entitles a man to hours of Blissful Satisfaction in all the days of his life. Graduate under
Prof. Picobac—always mild, cool, sweet.

Picobac

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

CASINO || Capitol

|

|
ALL WEEK | Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
Starting Saturday | .

“Swing Shift Maizie”

ANN SUTHERLAND

JAMES

CAGNEY
*

sae BED cos

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

Johnny Come Lately
*

Shows at 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9

‘Lassie Come Home”

RODDIE MacDOWELL

...0r how to make friends the world over (GEL, :

Have a “Coke” speaks the language of friendship in any tongue.
All over the globe Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes
—has become the happy bond between people of good will.
The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

 

ave Lurce
RO

co ") me
(Nes tf

fs?

P ON
gs i 0 ore
i “ , 7 , , a

4
Pa

Tpit
Ase

yl X b 1 “ ne, at f de. " ae / eT ee , ,
- | The following classes will be spon- |
sored by the Physical Department

by BILL POPE

‘| Basketball: |

A little over forty years ago,

uM ‘gym. class in Springfield College
| | YJM.C.A. was being bored with cal
esthenics and volley ball. Something new in indoor sports was
wanted. The inventive mind of the
instructor, Dr. James

| was equal to the situation as he

knocked the bottom out of a peach

| basket and stuck it on the wall.
| The volleyball was again put into
| use with the basket as target, and

Bain: |
In 19389 “Burnie” Ralston,  all
es aquatics, gymnastics and
| 1 sports was the winner of

esate athlete of St. John dureet year. The trophy is based

Dhar needs no introduction to
alhousie students and sport fans,

t because of his quiet-like efficsncy and outstanding ability as a
oach we believe he deserves some
Hs Pe ogriticn on this page. That can
betes wy reason for including him

4 : hat town, His Grade VIII he re' ceived at Morris St., his Grade IX
_. and X at Halifax High, and he gradRée ated from St. John High School, a
‘! fea a man. At Acadia he reie aa his B.Se., and in addition he
He

cosh ‘Dyail Ranger and Tux, Sunday School, Y.M.C.A,, and
o eee,

“ey | football and basketball
‘in in softball played with Ketepec
Provincial and

ay play-off . . « Played in
provincial tennis tourna+. + Was active in track and
events at Acadia and St. John.
try and. pick out a few of the
brilliant feats in the career
erson. mene Loi eee in oe

a new game was born—basketball.
This game spread like wildfire; different organizations, clubs, races
and sexes organized leagues and
last year it was estimated that
cver a million people played basketball in America. To regulate the
game thirteen original major rules
were outlined, and incidently only
four or five new regulations have
been added in over fifty-three years
of the game.

Basketball at Dalhousie is a major sport and one of the most popular. In past years the college has
had many winning teams. The preChristmas practises showed that the
Tigers this year will be as strong,
if not stronger than last year’s
equad. Four seniors from last season are again on hand. Alex Farquhar, first year man from Q.E.H.,
has shown speed and potential ability in workouts. Also Barry and

Sears, two newcomers to the Uni
versity, have shown up well. A few
others are likely to turn out for
practise now that the “exams” are
over and the pressure is off for a
time at least.

The turnout for the basketball
team this year was very large and
with only a limited amount of
money authorized to the basketball
team by the Student’s Council, only
those who showed real ability were
allowed to remain after the first
few practises in order to cut down
expense. Some aspirants, however,
on request were given another tryout, and if anyone still wishes to
turn out for the team he will probably be given a chance on application to the team’ management. An
organized period, however, will be
conducted in the gym. for all those
who wish to play and yet are not
of senior calibre.

The teams in the Halifax Senior
Basketball League are the same as
last year—Navy (defending Maritime + senior champions), Army,
Y.M.C.A., H-M:C.S. Kings, Air
Force, and Dalhousie. The balance
of the 30-game schedule will be
played at the Dal gym. on Wednes_| day nights. All the Intermediate
games will be played at the “Y” on
Saturday night.

Tee oe

The ping-pong enthusiasts have
used the holiday season to good advantage. A team from Dalhousie
travelled to Clark Ruse Recreation
Hall where they were victorious
over the aircraft workers. Also
mnay fine players from Dalhousie
including Dave Churchill - Smith,
Gordon Hart, Jim Bell, Eville Gorham and others have been frequently practising at the Waegwoltic
Club under the genial guidance of
Prof. C. H. Mercer who is one of

the strongest exponents of the
SSUES Reet AES a ED eR ee

mentioned teams at one time or other.

“Burnie’s” appointment to Dalhousie came in the summer of 1938
in recognition of his sport leadership. Since coming to the University he has coached three City
| Leagues Titles in Football and one
Maritime Championship in basketball. With such a record we give
you Burnett Alexander Ralston,
| B.Se., a brilliant athlete, successful
“| c¢oach, and the proud father of a
He year old son.

a ee ~—_—

| Answers to BRAIN-WORK| \lour are as follows:

: i bhi Rifle shooting.

_| 2, Ann Saunderson.
8, 2000 pounds.

4, A scoop or throw shot,
| 5. - Swimmers—backstroke.

Naismith,,

‘nual tournaments remains

game and who has done much_ to

aj} foster interest and keep the game

active. A mixed-doubles tournament for Dal. students will be run
off in about a month’s time with silver cups going to the winners. So
a little practise now might enable
you to carry off the prize.
Swimming:

A proposed swimming meet at
Acadia has been suggested to take
place sometime in February. This
seems like a good idea and will give
the aquatic stars a chance to participate in their favorite sport.
However, if Dal. is going to send a
team to Wolfville, swimming practises should begin at once, for the
opposition will not be too easy as
Acadia has a pool on their campus,
and knowing something of Acadians
they will make good use of it in the
next month or so.

Hockey:

As far as hockey prospects for
the winter are concerned all we can
say at this time is that preparation
is underway to organize a Dal. hockey squad and place them im a city
league. Hours for practise have
been obtained and they are, we believe, on Tuesday’s and Friday’s at
noon. There is a lot of hockey talent on the campus this year—Currie, Marty MacDonald, Wade, Wilson, McKelvie, Clark, ChurchillSmith, Lantz, to mention a few—
and for those interested we expect
big news to break on the hockey
situation any day, and next week
we intend to devote a column in the
interests of the ice game.

Badminton:

All depends on whether the birds
hold out or not. The shuttlecocks,
to give them their proper name,
cannot be bought for love nor
money and at the badminton period
each week the remaining number is
diminished still further. Great care
has been shown by the managers in
stretching the birds as far as_ posible but whether there will be
enough to warrant holding the anto be
seen.

This week a new column is being
introduced on the page. It will be
known by the distinctive title (or
otherwise) of “BRAIN-WORKOUT”
and it will deal with sports in general and Dal. sports in particular,
giving those readers whose closest
touch with sport is from the sidelines, a chance to show how well
versed they are in athletics and how
well they know their fellow students who perform so admirably for
their entertainment. This column
will be continued from week to week
if sufficient interest is shown. Lets
hear on this matter.

Jerry Naugler’s
Orchestra

CO

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

of the University and all students
will be warmly welcomed to each
and every class to be given.

Indian Clubs
Boxing
Fencing
Wrestling
Basketball
~ Tumbling
Soft-Ball
Pyramid Building
Touch-Rugby (Canadian)
Calisthenics
Volley-Ball
Badminton
Gymnastic Fundamentals
with practice
Tennis Fundamentals
Upper Classmen Gym
Period
Corrective Physical
Exercises
Advanced Gymnastics
(Apparatus)
Social Danring
(Beginners )
Track & Field Class
Swimming (Beginners
and Life Saving’)
Indoor Soccer
European Handball
Art of Ju-Jitsu and
Close Combat Fighting
Commando Tactics
Golf Technique and
Practice
Indoor Hockey
Organized classes will be held in
the above activities with supervised
instruction. The classes are especially designed for those students
who have had little previous experience in physical activities and who
would like to take part in a big
activity such as_ boxing,
wrestling, gymnastics, etc., or a recreational leisure time activity such
as badminton, golf, tennis, etc.
Classes will provide ample opportunity for students to learn and
play games and develop new skills
and techniques for future use.

LO OE OE RE LE BR OE LE LE OP

muscle

Ping-pongers Play —

In a holiday match, played on
December 29th, a Dal ping-pong
team defeated Clark Ruse at the
latter’s recreation hall, where facilities for championship play are excellent. The Dal team was led by
Bill Pope and ably supported by Alf
Wood, Eville Gorham, and Don Harris. For the aircraft players D.
Tanner showed up best.

Dal captured 14 singles matches
while Clark Ruse were winning two.
In the doubles the aircraft workers
edged out the collegians by a score
of three to two. This victory somewhat rubs out the memory of a
previous defeat at the hands of
Clark Ruse.

Results of play are as follows:

B. Pope (Dal) def. D. Tanner
(CR) 21-16, 21-14; H. Comeau (CR)
def. A. Wood (Dal) 21-10, 16-21, 2115; D. Harris (Dal) def. A. Booth
(CR) 21-15, 21-12; D. Dickie (CR)
def. E, Gorham (Dal) 21-18, 21-19;
B. Pope (Dal) def. R. Grandy (CR)
21-13, 21-7; E. Gorham (Dal) def.
| Tanner (CR) 21-16, 21-17; Wood
(Dal) def. Freese (CR) 21-12, 2112; Pope (Dal) def. Booth (CR) 2117, 21-12; Wood (Dal) def. Willis
(CR) 21-18, 21-17; Pope (Dal) def.
Dickie (CR) 21-8, 21-7; Gorham
(Dal) def. Willis (CR) 21-15, 21-9;
Pope (Dal) def. Comeau (CR) 21
Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

“GRAHAM

TEs oT io
Wares t

‘ ‘
:

lL
q ,

se i is

a al

y os) oR re ivy
‘ Af

‘BRAIN WORK-OUT

Test your ability in general knowledge of sports by answering
these simple questions. Give yourself five points for each correct’
answer. ‘Twenty-five is perfect, twenty is considered average, and
everyone below that had better keep their eye a little closer to the
ball.

1. A score of 100 is perfect in what sport?

. Who is the present ladies tennis champion at Dalhousie?

. Quick, what is the usual weight of a college football team:
one, two, or three thousand pounds?

A shot is considered illegal in badminton?

. What racing contestants have their backs toward the goal or
objective?

15, 21-10; Pope (Dal) def. Freeze | Pope (Dal) def. Tanner (CR) 21-10,
(CR) 21-11, 21-9; Gorham (Dal) def.| 21-13; Harris (Dal) def. Comeau
Grandy (CR) 21-19, 16-21, 21-15; | (CR) 21-18, 19-21, 21-18,

ee ee ee ee

A National
favorite

eilsn

Season's Cpreetings

and Best Wishes for 1944
to the Students at Dalhousie

MARITIME TELEPHONE AND
TELEGRAPH CO., LIMITED

Compliments of

The Hughes Owen
Co. Limited

*

 

 

EVERYTHING
FOR THE DRAWING OFFICE

 
