     
   
   
 

(> VOL. LXXvI

    
   
     
     
  
  
  
     
  
 

oy
|

a
~*~ 7

  

 

and the officers’
raised their hats.

 

ei
; +

* * *
wo -~
‘+ ¢ ¥ a ee i OO
Es * 4 Two old ' a ” oS were diseu:
Bs men. Pen o> eee we ae
ae

 

 

1

CAMPUS
CLIPPINGS

By EUGENE MERRY

 

 

New Department.

Floorwalker to lady clerk: “Since
so many clerks have been drafted,

we'll have to put you on the main
floor in men’s underwear.”

ee ne

Secretary, at registration time:

“Have you a reservation?”

Freshman: “Do I look like an Indian?”

* * *

Advanced C.O.T.C. For McGill.

Montreal, Oct. 18—(C. U. P.)—Lt.
Col. Morris has announced that an
advanced course of evening training
has been projected for students who
have had not less than two years of
basic training, if a sufficient number are interested. This course, in
lieu of any other training, will be
based on four hours a week, commencing on Oct. 25th, plus the usual
two weeks’ summer camp.

It was announced that the course
was planned to interest students in
Engineering and Science who otherwise are not obliged to take more
than-four hours per month compulsory military training per month are
prepared to support a practical and
definitely interesting course requiring four hours a week evening of
training.

ee

“Cover off,” cried the sergeant,
training corpse


* +

Even if severe inflation does follow defeat, the Germark mark can’t

‘possibly sink as low as some of mine

have.
oe * *

“T must apologize for my dancing
—I’m a little stiff from badminton.”
“My dear man, I don’t care where

you are from.”’—McGill Daily.

dm
Daffynitions.

Montreal--(C.U.P.)--Trigonometry
is when a lady marries three men
at the same time.

A parasite is the murder of a relative.

A buttress is a woman who makes
butter.

A blizzard is a thing inside a fowl.

An epistle is the wife of an apoostle.

_A sirloin is the only article of cloth

ing worn by Gandhi, the leader
Of ert, =)

- Heredity means that if your grand
father didn’t have any children,
then your father probably
wouldn’t have any, and neither
would you, probably.

Shelley’s most famous poem is
“Adenoids”.

What kind of noun is trousers? An

uncommon noun, because it is
singular on top, and plural at
the bottom.

    

 

   
  

| seeution.
+|form the W. S. C. F. of which the

’
=e a, a

ty = and ar

,Seeeity Ae)
ae i ey
1 i

ne ee

 

 

hs | oe Hi Tr ok ,
ee ee es
Oe, Sree Oy hel

‘ a

: ‘ ce Pa a 4
Ff os 0 Revi one
1 ‘

THE OLDEST COLLEGE

vir yp F
ent dee Fs .
ao ae
4s ' ) a4
.

ee
iy b=

WOULD OPEN DOOR

TO REFUGEE
IMMIGRANTS

S. M. C. To Petition Government

By BLAIR COLBORNE

We, the Dalhousie Student Christian Movement, realizing
that immediate action should be taken by the government of
this nominally Christian country concerning the refugee problem, wish to present to the campus a petition to be signed by
Canadian citizens, 18 years and over, who see such action as
our responsibility in common humanity:

The text of the petition follows:

“We, the undersigned citizens of
Canada do respectfully petition his
Majesty’s government and the Parliament of Canada as follows:

Realizing our responsibility in
common humanity to relieve the
suffering and distress of victims of
Nazi terror:

“We urgently entreat the Government of Canada:

1. To offer the sanctuary of Canada
to refugees from political or religious persecution without regard to
race, creed or financial condition.

2. To take steps to facilitate the
entry into Canada of refugees
(especially those stranded in Portugal) whom it is still possible to
rescue,

3. To make any changes in the
Immigration Act, regulations or administration thereof necessary to
admit such refugees into Canada.”

Anyone who believes in equal
rights of man will be eager to admit the refugees into Canada. Our
leaders speak loftily but vaguely
about the Four Freedoms. Are these
to apply only to ourselves?

The refugee problem for some 767
Rumanians fleeing from Nazi persecution was settled as follows: The
unseaworthy ship Struma (with no
lifeboats), carrying 769 refugees,
was refused admittance to Palestine
by the British authorities. The Turks
also refused the refugees asylum.
(Had they been cattle, they would
have been welcomed anywhere.) On
the night of February 28, 1942, the
ship struck a mine in the Black Sea
and all but two perished. Is that the
settlement YOU want?

We are supporting this petition
because we think that such action
follows directly from an understanding of the teachings of Jesus. We
appeal to Christian students to take
action at this time. This is a chance
to show that you really do believe
in freedom from want, freedom from
fear, and freedom of worship.

 

This petition may be signed at the
S.C.M. in the Archives, at Pine Hill
or Shirreff Hall.

W.S.C.F. World’s Student
Christian Federation

Do you know that all over the
world, in the midst of war, little
groups of students are getting together to discover what answer the
Bible has to the student in search
of a purpose for life? And they

‘are finding a dynamic which allows

them alone to stand up against perThese groups of students

 
 
 
 
 

ad p
a"

 
 

part is the S.C.M. There
1 S.CM. Fireside at 35

oe Nover a

  

 
     
    
 
  
 
 
 

   
 

Sodales Cheon
Debaters For Year

Lack of interest in debating aat
Dalhousie was evident last Tuesday

when the Sodales Debating Society
met in Room 3 of the Arts Building
to choose those who would represent
Dalhousie in intercollegiate debating
this year.

After some discussion it was decided to choose only four representatives at this time and have the remaining two to be chosen after the
Christmas vacation. Those chosen at
these trials were Donald Harris, Neil
McKelvie, George Hawkins, and
Allan Blakeney.

Plans for the first debate of the
year—with St. Thomas College, were
discussed. Scott Gordon disclosed
that arrangements had already been
concluded with St. Thomas College
Debating Society as regard the topic
and approximate date of the debate.
The subject for discussion is to be
“Resolved that it would be to the
interests of Canada to become a part
‘of the United States.” ‘Interpretation: The nine provinces of Canada
andthe Northwest Territories to join
the United States as separate member state and to be governed by the
Same obligations and privileges
which now govern the individual
States.) Dalhousie is to uphold the
negative of this resolution. Lots
were drawn to see which of the debaters chosen would represent Dalhousie at St. Thomas and the choice
fell to Donald Harris and Neil
McKelvie.

This debate is to be held about the
latter part of next week.

 

Govern
Yourself...

The latest issue of the undergraduate French newspap,er
L’Epitre, is now out and available
free of charge, to all members of
the university. Copies may be
obtained in the library or from
Jim McLaren, Gazette office.

-_—

The Cercle Francais will hold
its second meeting of the year,
Friday next, at 4.30 pm. in
Shirreff Hall.

—_—_— —

Dalhousie Tigers will wind up
the football season on Saturday,
November 26, when they meet Mt.
Allison seniors on Dal grounds.

 

_———
a
~

vo

    

 

  
  
 

[arsed te continue in office for. the
wear. fi ey rene

oa mm — = a ee — Ss ll igr. . Tera, Law Fey.
ae ls RSM a ele real ke el itoe lit.) \ See Lee Ly cue nd dit ELD a Nake
— a meticety Dera pein) a, mea Ror : A Le Lee OURS Pig iF
¥ > et ¥ vo dike = ; 7 yt te. : roe ’
¥ 5 4 ‘

»

HALIFAX, N. 8., NOVEMBER 19, 1948

‘Arts, Science,
Commerce, Hold
Council Elections

Arts and Science and Commerce
students had their chance to exert
their voting privileges in the byelections held yesterday.

 

FLASH!

‘Joan Vaughan was elected to
represent Arts and Science. The
Commerce nominees were tied.

 

The elections were necessitated by
two vacancies in the Council this
year. The Arts and Science vacancy
was a result of a general shifting of
executive positions on the Council
following the resignation of Tom
Patterson. A student forum approved the council’s action in appointing
McKinnon as prexie and Barbara
White as Vice Prexie, and it was
decided that a by-election would be
held to fill the post vacated by Miss
White. The Commerce vacancy was
caused by the enlistment of Don
Smith, and his subsequent inability
to return to college.

Candidates for the council posts
were as follows: Arts and Science,
Joyce Nicholson and Joan Vaughan;
Commerce, D. Churchill-Smith and
Ruth MacInnis.

Year Book Subject of
Class 44 Meeting

Action in the event that the Year
Book would not be published this
year was the chief topic of discussion
at a meeting of the Class °44 held
in the Arts Building on Thursday at
noon. Prexie Bill Hagen pointed
out that in view of the ‘financial
losses that the Pharos had incurred
in recent years made it very doubtful whether the Year Book would be
continued this year.

As an alternative to the usual
publication of class pictures in-the
Year Book it was decided to investigate the possibility of mounting
individual graduation ‘pictures of
the members of the class, so as to

form one large group picture, and
offering these for sale to the graduates and other interested. Ann

Mackley was appointed to interview
the various photographers as to the
plausibility of this suggestion.

A financial statement presented at
the meeting showed the class finances to consist of the meager sum of
$58.25. It was pointed out that this
was insufficient to carry out the
various activities connected with
graduation and it was decided to
supplement this sum by having the
members of the class sign over their
caution deposits to the class. After
a heated discussion, the meeting
finally decided to meet its obligations to the Arts and Science Society by paying $10.00 dues to the
Society.

Highlight of the meeting was the
frantic effort of Prexie Hagen to
have his resignataion as class president accepted. After several convineing’ lectures as to the lightness
of his duties had been delivered, a
deadlock resulted with Prexie Hagen
insisting that it was in the best
interests of the class for him to resign, with the members of the class
claiming the exact opposite. Prexie
Hagen, however, finally yielded to
the persistent class members and

 
 

aie 4
5 ee : = , a pl
eg the =< fe ae pe

.

a a
peut, ae: ote ¥.

  
 
  

| they are concerned, and the remaini

fi el

«
a
red

PAPER IN AMERICA

__ _—_ = 2 oe"
ee Pee Sy Pie oe) ig OV et
ene peee by, sett

‘ i o's = 
im

S: ENLIST NOW AS BLOOD DONORS:

 

 

 

No. 7

 

Dal Fans Pack The Stands;
Tigers, Axe, Meet Demands

Acadians Best in Gridiron Test

Last Saturday was certainly a bleak day, literally and
figuratively for Dalhousie fans; at least, a lot were under the
weather. After three straight/wins, supporters of the gold and
black had become quite confident, and until the last three
minutes of play it was not broken.

IN THE GRANDSTAND

Although the weatherman, as even
the Censor could not disguise, played
sportsmen false, all other plans for
the Acadia foray were successful and
more so, and loyal Dalhousians by
3 a.m. Sunday morning, unanimously
agreed predictions of a “great trip”
had been masterpieces of understatement.

The D. A. R. Special, the “Dalhousie-Acadia Recker,” collaborated
by pulling out almost on time, with
a complement of almost a hundred
Tiger supporters~ with blood-andsleep in their eyes and a fierce determination in their hearts. No
welcoming committee greeted them
with confettii and ticker tape on arrival at Wolfville so tin helmets and
gas masks were laid aside and the
town taken mildly by storm.

Through the morning and early
into the afternoon, more fighting
Dallians roared into the town, by
thumb, by car, and even, it is whispered, by boat. At least the latter
was possible.

Acadia early asserted their right
to their own grandstand, but in best
Acadia-etiquette tradition, left Dal a
block, or blockette, of the bestventilated seats on the stand. Due
to the quick and efficient -work of
Dal’s first aid committee, on hand
with artificial respiration and snakebite. antidote, no gold-and-blackers
were drowned.

The game itself is treated elsewhere in the Gazette; suffice it is
to say Dal support, particularly in
the thrilling second half of the
senior game, was all. that Acadia
support was cracked up to be, and
wasn’t. Axementors were too busy
chewing all avaliable fingernails as
their perfect record seemed doomed
to use their oral orfices on the infamous “AxetheAxetheAxe”. That
the Wolfville Wonders finally came
through with a far from impressive
try to stagger out on top could not
dishearten Dallians knowledge their
Tigers had more than defended the
honor of the college by the sea.

For the evening, Acadia dusted off

ON THE GRIDIRON

Soon after the opening of the
game, Acadia went over for the first
try, when Sadler snared a loose ball.
Brown missed the convert, but for
the rest of the half the Axemen held
the advantage in play as well as in
score.

On the opening of the second half
the Tigers began to live up to their
name and really pushed Acadia back
into their own territory, despite the
fact that one of the team, Wade, was
injured. Though Dal missed an attempted penalty kick, Carten took a
loose ball and scored anyway. Barry
made the convert, and the score was
5-3 for Dalhousie.

As was to be expected, the Axemen came back with a vengence, so
by the time they were awarded a
penalty kick, many Dal fans felt rather low... But the ball bounced off
the bar and play was forced back up
the field. Though the Acadia threequarter line made a nice run, a bad
pass spoiled their chance, and soon
the Tigers were on their opponents’
5-yard line. Then came the old story
of not being able to quite go over
the line, so the Axemen soon forced
the action back to Dal territory.
Again a penalty kick was missed by
Acadia, but this time their forwards
followed up and McKay made a rather dubious touchdown. Though the
convert was missed from right in
front of the posts, the lads from
Wolfville were ahead by one point.
Just to make everything so nearly
even it hurt, an Acadian player was
carried off the field. Then both
teams fought each other almost to a
standstill, but slowly arid surely Dal
(Continued on page four)

the remnants of a dance for “players
only”, but the usual New Minas
Haven claimed tripsters attention
before the night was far advanced.
The gods of love looked down and
laughed, but *took care that all Dalsters finally reached the sooty city.

At last report, most fans were
doing as well as could be expected.

 

 

Pt 4h. et

Dalhousie Institute
of Public Opinion

 

Do You Think the Russian Language Should be Taught in

the College?

60% of those queried said that since Russia is proving herself a
mighty ally, and promises to be an important influence in post-war affairs,
the Russian language should be taught. 30% said they would not favour
such an addition to the curriculum, and the remaining 10% were undecided

as to their opinions.
* *

* *

Which Branch of the Armed Services do you Favour?

“(Asked of Girls only)

60% of the females asked this question, said that for general charm,
manners and technique, they favor the navy. 20% said that they favor
the air force for technique (but not for manners!), and 20% were in favor
of the army, the members of which, theysay, possess personality, plus.

* * + *

Do You Think There is Sufficient College Spirit at Dalhousie?

70% of those asked said no. They point out that at sporting events,
for example, this is quite evident—from the lack of spectators on the
stands, and from the lack of organized cheering by those who do con
descend to come. 25% said that the spirit here

   

Se

   

5% were undecided,

Fl
i
my)

i,

is sufficient as far as 4

   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

‘
s

al
,|
‘
%

\
=
)
i
a”

7

 
     

 
 

lawyer, a aaphit and an maaincer=—peared
as he stood tood guarding the pearly gates.

tepped fo —with confidence and assurd to Heliver an eloquent address which left St.
nd bewildered. Before the venerable Saint could
lawyer quickly handed him a writ of mandamus,
him aside and strode through the open portals.

- came the doctor. With impressive, dignified bearing,
d himself: “I am Dr. Brown.” . St. Peter received
y, “I feel I know you, Dr. Brown. Many who pre( cpa. you sent them here before their time. Welcome

   

     

  
 
 

 

  

engineer, spans ee ident, had been standing in
‘ound. He now stepped forward. “I’m looking for
he said. St. Peter wearily shook his head. “i am
he replied, “we have no work here for you. If you want
UL “can go to hell.” This response sounded familiar to
1eer and made him feel more at home. “Very -well,”
d, “T have had hell all my life and I guess I can stand it
than the others.” St. Peter was puzzled. “Look here,

man, what are you?” “I am an engineer,” was the
| Oh, yes,” said St. Peter. ‘“‘Do you belong to the Loco: -otherhood ?” “No, I am sorry,” the engineer reond apologetically, “T am a different kind of engineer.” I
is understand erstand,” said St. Peter, ‘“‘what on earth do you do?”
le engine er recalled a definition and calmly replied: “I apply
al principles to the control of natural forces.”’ This
oan meaningless to St. Feter and his temper, got the best
- Cry oune man.” he said, “you can go to hell with your
hematical principles and try you hand on some of the
ral forces there!”

And it came to pass that strange reports began to reach
ae Peter. The celestial denizens, who had amused themselves
me _ in the past by looking down upon the less fortunate creatures

Wi Pi in the Inferno, commenced asking for transfers to that other
domain. The sounds of agony and suffering were stilled. Many
ait new arrivals, after seeing both places, selected the nether
Ba _ regions for their permanent abode. Puzzled, St. Peter sent
'—s messengers to visit hell and to report back to him. They re
ae

_ turned, all excited, and-reported to St. Peter:

_ “That engineer you sent down there,” said the messengers,

ar “has completely transformed the place so that you would not
_ know it now. He has harnessed the fiery furnaces for light
and power. He has cooled the entire place with artificial refrigi eration. He has drained the lakes of brimstone and has filled
irr the air with cool perfumed breezes. He has flung bridges across
ee _bottomless abyss and has bored tunnels through obsidian
 ¢dliffs. He has created paved streets, gardens, parks and play grot ds, lakes, rivers and beautiful waterfalls. That engineer

Pike oh us gone through hell and pas made of it a realm of happiness,
fis e sere and industry.”
| if ated from “News Letter” Association of Tipfessional Engineers
ot the Peon of Ontario.

  

  

   
   
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
  

  

  

Odds and Ends

ye Glaneing over some back numbers of Gazettes of other years, we
a remark of a former Literary Editor, to the effect that those w wie

 
  

  

 

Seale. suspension of disbelief”. “We must remerber that Ireland
e of: angi and eee a Jand where people serve a strict church

rs

ene ie; § Yeats’ poetry one teas a union of those elements which have
ee enon in the hiatoty of Eire in the old time, and even yet to

 

Founded 1869 — “The Oldest College Paper in America”

The views expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
the author; it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of
the Student Body.

 

| GAZETTE STAFF, 1943-44
Editor-in-Chief

Pee ees retin ee IL ea Ted Shields
Business Manager ..... TR COWe Weiais Sai tare winiete sh ulene, gril'asol ele Kevin Barry
PR TSO ae ORL A OMA an Lule elegy a ueihgie cic-0'e ts woe e Jim McLaren
PiSRCHEO: HAitOre, dices og Setestca oad @ Bob McCleave, Eileen Phinney
SANE MIMS Oe wales oy ee tw Cae oe Cx p 00a Mik. 0 bbe ese qmieiicats mach Bill Pope
POET RRC 8 Fai bc diy Se dala e ba on dieiaiacie b'e ks ho wares Lou Collins
Photographers | Sqctldr Bio, orth sine wleewiaie wake eh ene K, Jeffrey, E. MacDonald
POEM MCOE cs Stet te Uk ie Canes ibd datas © we Laurie Smith
C.U.P. and eee Sie inact la ee eis ANG ale oan accdats ss a bce John Hibbetts
Reporters: Jim Campbell, Bill Lawrence, Boris Funt, Jack Quigley

Bob Kimball, Betty Atkins, Marg Morrison

UBI EST DALHOUSIANA?

“And is mine one?” asked Abou.
“Nay, not so,” replied the Angel.

“Dal War Fund Dance Brings $400,” “War Fund ‘Nets $850
in Two-Day Drive,” “Dalhousie Gives $2,500 to War Services”
—Yes, those would be wonderful headlines; there could be few
the Gazette would be prouder to print—if they were true.

Other college papers across the Dominion have been able
to devote columns and pages to accounts of their respective
universities’ war efforts; accounts not only in amounts of money
raised for war services, but in a dozen different fields, from
collecting magazines and knitting socks to sending cigarettes
and parcels to former university students in their country’s
uniform.

Picking at random from one week’s collection of papers
from other colleges: Acadia, Dal’s arch-rival, raises $624 in a
penny parade contest between classes, sets year’s objective at
51500 for war services; 76 students of McMaster Uniiversity
give blood on clinie’s first day; Queen’s Artsmen raffle War
Savings Certificates, and girls operate Victory Canteen. And
so on, through the roll of Canadian universities. But where is
Dalhousie? Recognized as one of the Dominion’s leading colleges, her name is conspicuously absent in the account of war
work.

Dalhousie’s sons are fighting on every front, wearing with
honor the uniforms of every Canadian service. They are carrying her name to the ends of the earth; they will cry it in the
streets of Berlin, and in the ruins of Tokio. They are garbing
themselves and their Alma Mater in a cloak of blazing glory
for all time. And we who are left are proud of them, let no one
doubt that fact for a second; we are proud of them and their
sacrifice and will fiercely repel any attempt at disparaging or
ae it. Yet why does this pride not take more tangible
orm

          
  
    
 
   

Last week we were able to devote a good part of the paper
to an account of the newly-formed Blood Donors’ Society. It is
a big and important step towards a really all-out campus war
effort. BUT it is not enough. No matter how successful it may
be, and it is of course still too early to judge, it is not nearly
enough for Dalhousie. Shirreff Hall girls are knitting for the
Red Cross, and doing good work. Other students are members
of various civil defence associations. But there is no fully integrated Dalhousie War Service effort.

The time is now! Action must be taken to form some
body, representative of all student faculties, societies, and clubs,
to organize and direct a powerful Dalhousie War Service unit,
encompassing all facets of the University war effort, including
blood donations, knitting, canteen work, and various ways of
raising a fund to be applied to services for our fighting forces.

The proper authority to form this body is the Students’
Councill. Already this year’s Council has shown itself more
alert and wide-awake than has this august or ganization for
several terms, but it must act now, if Dalhousie is to have an
all-out war effort to its credit when the dawn of victory comes.

      
    
 
       
       
  
    
       
 
  
  
    
    
    
  

 

as a combatant officer and in secret poured out his bitterness, his hatred
of war, his consciousness of its bloody ghastliness, and his spirit’s longing
’|for the peaceful world which he had known, and nearly forgotten, except
in his heart’s core.

 
       

   
  

After a period of rest in England, extending from the latter part of
1917 and until August 1918, Owen returned to the front. He there conducted himself, with such outstanding bravery that his King was pleased
to award him the Military Cross. If, in the spirit of the ancient Greeks,
we might conceive of a god of Tragedy, we might think also that this god
was quick to note that a person who is a brave man and poet, is indeed
a subject mete for Death. On November 4, seven days before the Arimstice, Wilfred Owen was shot and killed.

  
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
  

   
 
  

  
  
  

When we read such excellent sonnets as “The Unreturning”, and
the rest of his poetry, we realize to what heights this warrior-poet might
have risen and we wonder if we shall always be the poor, inarticulate
participants in a planetary tragedy, who, seeing their great and sweettongued brothers daring and risking all, only to be crushed before their
time, while we make moan to the dumb and glittering stars, the only
spectators of the world. Thinking of Owen, we think also of Shelly,
Time’s fell hand cuts many a blossom e’er it scarce blooms.

 

     
  
   
 

   

 

Side ts whom ha: was Ridieminc. to wale five miles nab
on weekend think that it is very probable that university
nental as well as physical acy: Pxamigations prove it,

coreg only Magee, g, Who wes Killed while serving |

udian Air Force. Out of the flames of the last war
of men | on whom the Muse smiled, too often through

re, We remember that Brooke went “rose00! jes his "bitter denunciations of

   

ch which hid a sword.

    

ok et oe

  
  
 
   
  
   
 

  
   
    

NOTES BY THE WAY:

Wanted by the Literary Editor large number e contributors as soon
as Roselle:

 

  
   
  
   
  
  

SUNRISE

Dawn rose like a scarlet nun,

And brushed the stars away.

She lifted up the burning sun,

And climbed the mountain stairway

To an altar

Above the silent, drifting clouds.

_ And then she pied the el wine of day.

    

or Me ir Tae a ie
Rech Vy Oe dager 2

Fader’s Drug Stores

     
     

HALIFAX

 

  
   
  
 
    
   
   
    
    
 

 

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  

Le fc Ey:

. 7% i 34 y Oto? a= Sh ey :
ae isa im, Sto th Fle, rahe a een cae

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES,

Sh rete

  
        
 
    
   
   
 

Don Peek ee

MEDICINES, PERFUMERY

CHOCOLATES, KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

490 BARRINGTON STREET

O

DALHOUSIE
WELCOME

TO
BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

O

 

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
S

  

Nova Scotia

FARMERS’

ALWAYS PURE

LORD NELSON HOTEL

 

Writing
Equipment

Good writing equipment
makes for better notes
in classes.

Birks have good assortments in the popular
lines—Sheaffer, Parker
and Waterman.

Henry Birks & Sons
| Limited

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax. N. S.

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

MILK

ALWAYS RICH

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

 
   
  

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

  

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

 
   
 

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Gagineering. Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics,
Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses Bh iar standing,

of M.A.,

Mathematics,

leading to degrees

Courses-—preparatory to Professional Faculties.

Course in Public

Many valuable scholarships,
the courses.

istration.

on entrance and through

    
 

The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

   
  

in the B.Sc. course,

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

 

 

average about $160 a year.
about a a@ year.

     
     
   
 

 
Bete vive.
ee

: ette 2 is i eues to present a series of articles
erent students on how they spent their summer
ays. The demands of wartime being great, perhaps
the holiday work is connected vitally with the war

ort. Contributors to the

| i emotes that news interest—whether serious,

column should, however, recomie, or

P 3 : just a average reading—is of paramount importance.
1, te editor and ROVE article will be accepted for

: e Side,

West alae

_ All Around the Town.
Pes J. C. McLAREN

playing a

ole in the Mae iaiey of the

t Nation, and it is not to be

that the great metropolis has

uted and sacrificed many of

; to our cause—yet it is not

| diffieult: for a newcomer to sense an
eh irs nt and eyer present atmosphere of carefree gaiety, the same

cloak which both city and civilian

wore in the pre-war days. New
York is the entertainment mecca of
the world—as such it has prospered
_and as such it is continuing to sur
When a guide on a sight-seeing
tour remarked that “New York has
few basic industries. It is princi_ pally a commercial and financial district—” he was not far wrong.

is _ drug-store proprietor f urt her ob
served:

“Yes, New York is much the same
as before the war. Of course our
war plants are going full blast, but
these and other wartime industries
are more additions than changes.
And every minute of every day
you'll find strangers from all parts
of the country coming to make their
fortune in the biy city.”

Mocks For Entertainment.

It is Sunday night of the Labor
‘Day weekend, the eve of a great national holiday, Imagine if you can
the scene on Times Square at the
intersection of Broadway and 45th
street. Literally thousands of every
age and nationality are out en masse
crowding and pushing like a great
line of cattle across the busy inter
be ae sections, weaving dexterously in and

out of a continually advancing and
retreating flow of traffic. Overhead
an imposing multi-colored sign an
-- nounces that the comedy sensation

“Life With Father” is “marching on
into its fourth year.” The city’s
wartime quota of 12000 taxi cabs is
kept busy transporting holidayers to
and from the countless theatres and
night clubs. The city’s giant pulse
is beating with’ the hearts of its

people.

New York is near yet it appears
so far from the war, nor is it difficult for a newcomer to escape reality
in the terrifying panorama of towering skyscrapers or under the spell
of a city tuned to a high and fervent
pitch of excitement. But suddenly,
as he edges his way along the street,
he is jolted back to his senses by
the observation that almost every
fourth person “doing the town” is a
member of the armed services. He
goes up 70 stories in the N.B.C.
building in Rockefeller Centre to
sean the vast expanse of flickering

A| What he wants—there’s trouble.

spare the weaker sex been called to

the fold in any large numbers to fill
vacancies.
Although saloons and restaurant
| bars here are a-dime a dozen, New

Yorkers, surprisingly enough, do not
abuse the privilege. The facts of
the case are simple. Drinking is
done openly and with as little concern as if you or I were ordering a
cup of tea in a Halifax cafe. But
this writer saw exactly two drunkards in the course of his nocturnal
wanderings in New York. In the
Hollis street area of Halifax, at the
same time of night, a fully sober
individual would seem completely out
of place. There are no bars or
saloons in Halifax — only a double
queue three or four times weekly
outside the liquor commissions to
testify to the public’s craving for
alcohol. Man always craves for
what he can’t get, and when he gets

0
sum up—in New York drink, in the
sense, is considered a “beverage”, in
Halifax it is considered a “stimulant.”

We notice that the U. S. recently
set out on its third war loan drive.
But in its advertisements the Treasurey Department appealed less to
the patriotism than to the entertainment whims of the populace. It
exhibited magnificent placards with
pictures of Messrs. Mickey Rooney,
Fred Astaire, etc. etc., and bearing
the words: “Buy an extra war bond
and see this great show — Hollywood’s ‘Cavalcade of Stars’”. But it
is unfair to criticise the method be
fore the result. No doubt the drive

will be a tremendous success and
New Yorkers will subscribe to and
well exceed their quota.

Small Canada.

Off the beaten path for a moment,
let’s recall this conversation in the
lobby of the Hotel Picadilly. A bellboy is speaking.

“Are you from Maine, sir?”

“No, I live in Noya Scotia.”

“Canada ? 937 ‘

“Ves, ”

“Then you’d know my sister in
Alberta.”—and he went on:

“I was in Canada once — Saint
Stephen.”

“Saint Stephen, New Brunswick?”

“No, just Saint Stephen.”

Hand in hand with New York’s
casual, carefree atmosphere is the
very noticeable independence and individuality of the average man in the
street. He views the passing parade
with a sort of whimsical amusement.
He takes no one seriously least of
all himself. This conversation was
overheard between waiter and customer in a certain well known eating place.

“I want a ham sandwich and a
cup of coffee.”

“Hem sendvitch feefty cent. Okeh
vit you?’

“No it’s not.”

“Okeh.”

This air of calm assurance and
almost devil-may-care abandon to
the Fates was exemplified by .a tall,
well-dressed blindman in the Times
Square district the other night. This
writer who was crossing the intersection at that time offered to convoy the poor man from. street to
sidewalk.

“Here is 45th street, sir, you
should find you’re way along. It’s
not too crowded.”

“No, no. This is Labor Day,” he
replied,
Broadway, young man.”

And so—cane in hand, he felt his
way through the laughing, pushing
mob of merrymakers, absorbed like
a spot of ink in a heavy blotter.

Driving in the Park Avenue subway, on a sunny afternoon, was a
kindly old lady with a merry twinkle
in her eyes. She wore a blue silk
print dress, a—black felt hat with a
blue veil and held an unmbrella in
one hand and the Sunday edition of
the New York Times in the other.
She was an individualist in every
sense of the word. With a smile on
a face that did honor to her 80 odd
years, she gave this advice to a
greenhorn in the biy city:

“While you’re in New York ‘treat
every man as a rogue ’til you find
out he’s honest.”

Exterior Decoorationist.

The inhabitants of the celebrated

“black-eye” district of the Bowery

“kindly head me down

on New York’s East side are amazing their own way. They have perfected a knock-out brand of “joyjuice” composed of three quarters
parts turpentine, our guide tells us.
Brawls and “unconventional fisticuffs” are quite common when the
potency of’ the brew has taken effect, and black eyes are the inevitable result. So, beside every barber
shop on the Bowery are signs reading—”We are the original black-eye
painters,” or “We make black eyes
look natural.”

And then there is the friendly
superintendent of a Buddhist temple
in Chinatown who introduces you to
“Daifud, God of Hanniness” and exhorts you to tap the sacred drum.
And there is the old Jew who prattles on about the relative nierits of
Heaven and Hell every morning in
the shadows of Hanover Square. All
this is New York.

But these characteristics are as
peculiar to the man in the street as
to the group of carefree pigeons
waddling about on Father Duffy’s
nose at his monument in Duffy
Square, or to the sea lions frolicking
in their pool at Central Park. They
are the possessions of city and civilian alike.

Such are the impressions of a
newcomer to the city of New York
—the result of four too brief days
of wandering, looking and listening.
But, in the end, this thought’ predominates all others—that—because
of its gaiety, its colour, its frankness
and its self assurance, New York
will always be a very great city.

AUNT SUSIE'S REMEDY

Dear Aunt Susie:

I am a girl of average height and
weight and certainly not less than
average appearance. However, I am
on the shelf. This is my third year
at college and I am no longer the
novelty that I used to be. What
should I do to get my old popularity
back? The tricks that I used in my
day are out of vogue now, and I
simply cannot come to using the devices that the’ younger classes have
imported with them. The Freshettes
are ruthless, snatching men from all
classes, even the Juniors and Seniors
whom we consider the property of
upperclass girls. How can I compete with the wide-eyed inocent look
of these girls after having completed
two years of a course so that I may
be intelligent? Should I pretend to
be innocent too? Or should I adopt
the wordly attitude? How can I develop a line of chatter? The Freshettes chatter on and on without
thinking and the boys lap it up
loving it. I have been taught that
I must use my brain. I cannot go
on talking for an indefinite period
without thinking. Deep profound
thoughts are not looked on with
favour. How canI reform? Should
I change my ways? Please advise me.

Deeply Perplexed Junior.

Dear P. P. J.,
Your problem is one that faces
some that have been “going steady”

SET LE MD gee OH aD ON 8 ae Beh a 2

‘| bring forth at examination time.

for some years. It is the natural
desire of the male to show himself
as a superior being that makes the
Freshettes so popular. They look in
greater respect. They are thrilled to
hear the same old line that you’ve
grown tired of. The Freshettes are
awed by the age of these people and
the complicated things that they talk
about. You, on the other hand, know
these lads and know when they are
talking beyond their level. However, don’t let the matter worry you.
This is only a temporary state of
affairs. You don’t need to change
your personality. The boys will
quickly tire of the thoughtless
Freshettes and will come back to
the worldly Juniors with later leaves.
They are merely giving the old line
its final public appearance before
they put it away in moth balls.
Above all don’t act innocent. This
will give you one advantage over
the Freshettes who are less experienced. Develop a line of small talk
that is not entirely without thought
but is not too weighty. A happy
medium in this case is the only satisfactory thing. Always remember
though that a bit of flattery will not
go astray. In the days when I went
to college a brain was a thing to
In
that respect things are not different.
Always remember appearance is important. Don’t wear knee socks
which are the bane of:all male existence, If you are cold though, sweat
BS ne eek

AND SCIENCE

Shame on all of you who forgot
to vote in the By-Election. Posies
to those who did vote.

Ka ae ok :

Someone should tell the couple in
the end aleove that their monopoly
is going to be broken soon.

a! ee

Some members of Arts and

Seience didn’t behave very well at

ers are an easy and happy answer.
Choose your lipstick with care, making sure that it the indelible
variety with a peachy flavour.

is

Abide by this advice and remem |
ber that this is something that time
will cure. The Freshettes will pass
from the picture until next year.

Aunt Susie.

Page Three —

Acadia. Is Art trying for an hon
orary membership in the Horizontal ~ Be
Club?

* * *

Be good boys and girls until next
week and don’t forget to Give Blood.

For Sporting
Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

PIANOS —- CHURCH ORGANS

SHEET MUSIC - RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

Call on

B.Sm., Bachelor of Smoking, § isa great “Se
degree. It entitles a man to hours of Blissful Satisfaction in all the days of his life. Graduate under
Prof. Picobac—always mild, cool, sweet.

Picobac

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

 

 

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 Spring Garden Road
3-9754
We Cater to Collegians

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednes.

Capitol

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
A HOST OF STARS

— in —

“THANK YOUR

resid and tall buildings in silhouette
the sky, stretching from

Zs eiivcr to horizon. And then he
es notices the giant form of the NorY mandie, stretched out like a wound» ed monster in her pier — another

reminder.
ia A visit to Coney Island on Labor

+ »
Ly Bilt t

_ “TORNADO”
“SIX-GUN GOSPEL”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
GENE AUTRY

LUCKY STARS”
*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
-' DOROTHY McGUIRE

EATON’S
A CHOICE OF MEN’S

T SQUARE

Wow! Wotta Trip!
As far as we know, everybody is

Sie Ie y y

The

4 _ _Day is the experience of a life-time,

particularly if a good portion of New
York’s 7,500,000 gets the same idea.
The beach and four mile boardwalk
on “the island” are literally pep
_pered with humanity seeking relief

from the sweltering heat of Manhattan. As young, old, and above
all, indifferent run about in the

ae es water, take in the thrills of the mid
way or simply hold to their two foot
square area of beach, you can notice
_a series of large motor-boats cruising back and forth just a few hundred yards out to sea. What can
they be doing?

“Probably fishing boats”, volunteers a short greasy gentleman in
white swim trunks sporting a matof hair on his protruding Actually they are ships
of the United States Coast Guard on
=| Feconmalssance patrol.

ee Compared.

> contrast to the drastic
1 Halifax is the fact that
otels - Teataurents and

t | 4 oa tis time of the year, the |S
2 ees team sete. in} Ng

column very often.

back here again, and no serious injuries have been reported to date.
The Horizontal Club executive
states that its meeting was very
successful, and that all members
conducted themselves as true Engineers.
x * x
Our Newfie friend “Studebaker”
Clarke has not consolidated any positions at the Hall so far. What’s the
trouble, chum?
x Ww om

We understand B. H. is dead

against publicity. What’s the trou-|«#

ble, Gabe, would it bring about complications ?
} * *« *

It’s a funny thing that the
Freshmen Engineers don’t make this
It’s no doubt
that they are a quiet bunch, and,
like the Freshettes at Dal, don’t
hee themselves known until after
| CRtaaes Yea, sophistication!

ees,

- SCARVES

AT EATON’S

¢

BED ze 300) eh 2a pee eh pe

ETHER yov’re shopping
for Christmas gifts or want
to secure a searf for yourself,

EATON’S! ,

you'll find a good selection at
. . Visit our Men’s

Wear Department at your earliest opportunity and make your

choice! .
terns and colour combinations.

Each

=,

oes Met, 8

‘

| “pat at?

. . A variety of pat
Wear Department—Main Floor ;

in “OLD MONTEREY”

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“GOOD LUCK, MR. YATES”
Claire Trevor

*

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday
“MR. BIG”
“BEHIND PRISON WALLS”

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“THE EDGE OF DARKNESS”
Errol Flynn and Ann Sheridan |

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“CONEY ISLAND”
- Betty Grable

ROBERT YOUNG

mn WO anes

“CLAUDIA”

CASINO

ALL WEEK
Starting Saturday

*

DEANNA

DURBIN
“HER’S TO HOLD”
*

pers at + hy, 5, at anc wt : 14

i

 
  
  
    
 

 

   

=

i “ “

   
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
 

F ‘

Presenting ee

ore

 

 

. . » Phil Cole, tennis player “par
excellence,” known to many by the
fe way he sends his blistering backhand
_ shots zooming across the net, and
saad also known to others in the role of
a - modest, hardworking, Anassuming

f medical student. °

Phil hails from Chester, and it
' was in the South Shore town of
Lunenburg that he won his first
. tennis trophy by defeating» Erskine
bs Carter of Saint John, to take the
| Provincial Boys .Tennis Title in
. 1936. Since that time he has been
on winning trophies and taking ChamY pionships in all parts of the Mari. times with regularity and consistency.

With Forbes Mountain as partner,
this up-and-coming player won the
Provincial Junior Men’s doubles in
1937 and successfully defended the
. title in ’88 and ’89. In 1938 Cole
i and Mountain started on a tennis
tour, playing their opening matches
in Kentville. For that tournament
? Phil captured all three events —
Singles, men’s doubles, and mixed
doubles. Moving on to P. E. I. Cole
| and Mountain were successful in
Bs winning the Eastern Canadian men’s
_ doubles in the Junior division. Later
: in Halifax this fine young tennis
player defeated his partner in the
singles to take the Nova Scotia
Junior tennis tournament, and joined forces with Mountain to win the
Junior doubles.

In 1939 the Senior Valley and
West Nova Scotia tennis tournament
went to Cole as he won all three
events. The following year he was
successful in defending his previous
victories.

Before taking up his pre-medical
studies at Kings, this sterling athlete
obtained his education at the Chester
High School. There he played a
prominent part on the track and
field team that won the Nova Scotia
Interscholastic Title.

Phil was not long at Kings be_ fore taking a leading role in University athletics. He was number
| _-—sohe man on the team which defeated
| _—- Aeadia and Mt. Allison to win the
Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis
trophy. Also for the past two years
he has been awarded the MunroEvans trophy for winning the University tournament.

: His most exciting and hardest
| fought match was with Don Bauld
_ “—provincial champ and ranking
player in Canadian tennis circles.

 

ELINES

by BILL POPE

The football season is over as far as the Tigers are con
ned, but it might be well at this time to take a backward

ANCE ‘at the past season, and see -where errors were made and

-. ; ahi the team could have improved. In retrospect, the results,

~~ mistakes, victories and defeats can be seen in a clear light, and

_ the weakness and strength of the team can be appraised more
accurately than in the heat of battle.

Many of the 1948 Tigers will again
wear the black and gold in future
years, so a few minutes now in
honest criticism might not be amiss.

The Tigers in their opening game
were handed a terrific defeat by
Army. The score was Army 19;
Tigers 0. One of the reasons for
this sharp defeat was that Dal was
not organized. Only two weeks
later, the Tigers took a win from the
same Army team that had trounced
them so soundly in the opening encounter. How can this reversal of
form be accounted for? In our
opinion it is simply this: the good
players, those almost sure of making
the team, did not show up consistently for early practices, and the
result was that the team showed lack
of condition and could not stand up
against the well-condidtioned Army
players. Conditioning is vital to the
success of any team! It might be
well for basketball players to note
this, and not hand the first couple
of games to the opposition without
a fight.

It took Acadia to bring out the
best in Dal. In this game the Tigers
were the aggressive and made the
Axemen step smartly in order to
take a win by a slight margin. The
game was a great improvement over
the opener, both in condition shown
by the players and also in the team
spirit. This latter quality is what
carries a team to great heights.
Acadia has long been known for
their fine athletic spirit. To a lesser degree Dalhousie is known for the
way their teams are supported.

The most prominent fault of the
Tigers in their opening games, next
to their lack of condition, was their
poor tackling. On many occasions
the opposition worked their way up
the field into scoring position because Dal did not tackle properly.
Starting with the first practice of
the season and carried on throughout
the fall, every player should go
through tackling practice. .A tackling bag, not used this year, might
be helpful to many in mastering this
important art. Absolute requisites
for a good football player: running,
kicking and tackling! In most practices too much time is spent up and
down the field passing the ball along
the line, and too little time is spent
in trying to acquire skill in tackling.
Hard tackling is just as important
as good field running in winning
football games!

The Tigers -broke even for the
season in wins and losses. Victories
over Army and Navy (2) went to
Dal along with defeats*from Acadia
and Army. In the Intermediate
league there were only two teams—
Dal and Acadia—and each team won
their home game.

Some of the Dal Intermediates
should be ready for senior play next
fall. It usually takes two or three
years to build up a strong team.
Dal had a powerful team two years
ago. Last year the team lost many
experienced players, and the Tigers
although suffering a poor season,
started to rebuild. This year the
Tigers had better suecess, but it is
next year that Dal should field a
really strong team.

races. In 1939 he played left wing

for Dal’s senior hockey team. Next

to tennis, baseball is his favorite
sport and he has played a starry

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

MEET THE TIGERS

The Tigers of 1943 atarted the season with only three of
last year’s team, but the gaps were soon filled with fresh material. The boys had daily practice sessions each noon, and
after the first game with Army, vast improvement was shown
by the players. The Tigers worked smoothly against the Navy
and took two wins from the sailors.

The best games of the season, however, were the two Dal
dropped to Acadia. In these encounters keen competition, an
intense desire to win, and good running and kicking were witnessed by the crowds that filled Studley and Raymond fields
respectively.

Mid-way during the season the Tigers suffered a blow when
they lost Mclvor, one of the best heelers in the Maritimes,
through injuries. Also Dan McLeod, who showed promise of
developing into a strong player, was hurt in practice and had
to drop from the team. Burnie Ralston, however, has built the
team up from last year and has once again turned in a creditable
job. Football manager for the year was Les McLean, and
“Hank” Johnson was assistant manager.

(Editor’s Note: We are sorry to report that, although a
picture was taken of the football team, something happened
and it did not turn out, so a word picture of the team is all we
will be able to give.)

Wade:

5 ft. 6 ins., 185 lbs. This is Wade’s
first year at Dalhousie. Formerly
played for Q.E.H. Keeps cool when
opponents are rushing him. Plays
fullback and is the best tackler on
the team.

 

Barry:

5 ft. 7 ins, 166 lbs. Another first
year man at Dal. Formerly played
with S.J.H.S. He is a good kicker.
Plays on the three-quarter line.

Hart:

5 ft. 10% ins., 145 lbs. Came to
Dal from H.C.A. and this is his second year on the Tigers. Throws a
good pass. Plays on the three-quarter line.

Carten:

5 ft. 7 ins., 165 lbs. Played with
St. F. X. before coming to Dal. Is
a steady and aggressive player.
Forward.

Giberson:

5 ft. 10 in., 180 lbs. Fast runner
and hard worker. Dangerous man
when he has the ball. Is team
Captain. Comes from Mount Allison.

 

THE silky strokes you
get from MIRADO’S
smooth lead will make
you purr like a contented cat. You won't
be irritated by broken

Burgess:

dft. 8 ins., 145 lbs. Fast runner

 
  
    
   

enn

and good tackler. Played with Dal po. MIRADO will
Intermediates last year. Forward. e off your mind and on
the job—always. It’s

McLennan:
Sft. 9 ins., 155 lbs.

more than a pleasure, its

First year at areal economy.

  
   

Dal. Comes from Mount Allison. 5c each—less in quantities
Fast runner. Plays on three quar- Certified watt a teomey Back
ter line. guarantee in every dozen.
Currie:

5 ft. TO ins., 170 lbs. Played with

H.C.A. and also in various teams in
Ontario. An all round player. Leading scorer on team.

 
 
 
  

- ‘CHM. SEALED" (Super.

 

Bonded)

 

Epstein: i
5 ft. 8 ins., 160 lbs. Comes from £30 Se
Mount Allison. First year on Tigers. Pp BS
Forward. 4 vi . NCIL pes
Keith: | STRO UARAN aie ie
5 ft. 11 ins., 168 lbs. Another NGER, SMOOTHER, |
first year man at Dalhousie. Form- LONGE WEARING fey
erly played for K.C.S. Forward. OR YOur MONEY eS
Anderson: Roce BACK

 

5 ft. 8 ins., 150 lbs.
from K.C.S. Forward.
Jardine:

6 ft. 10 ins., 170 Ibs. Making his
appearance at Dal for the first time.
Comes from Mount Allison. Forward.
Marshall:

5 ft. 10 ins., 165 lbs. He played
at Mount Allison with Jardine and
Epstein, and the three have continued their game at Dalhousie.
Forward.

Melvor:

5 ft. 8 ins., 170 lbs. Centre heeler.
Playettwo years with Acadia before
coming to Dal. This is his fourth
year on the Tigers. Is a dangerous
place kicker. Home is in Glace Bay.
Farquhar:

5 ft. 11 ins., 158 lbs. First year
man, Formerly played with Q. E. H.
Forward.

Another man

  

Se psf

  

   
  
 

van Ne n Uh

 

   
  

 

Basketball Practice ~
Starts November 22

It has been announced by
Coach Burnie Ralston that basketball practices will start for the

season on November 22nd.
Practices will be held at noon on
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays in the gym. All interested
are urged to turn out.

ON THE GRIDIRON
(Continued from page one)
housie began to push into enemy territory. Though it may not have been
too little effort, it was sadly, too
late, the whistle blowing the end of
the game, with Dal on the 10-yard
line. The Axemen were victorious

to the extent of 6-5.”

Summing up the season, we should
say Dalhousie turned out a better
team than was thought probable,
and was helped in no small measure
by additions from other universities.
Their chief fault was taking too long
to get started which was probably
due to lack of practice. Though
Acadia won by some slim margins |
and rather doubtful ones at that, we
must admit, they showed the benefit
of longer practice and their players

 

 

 

from previous years helped considerably. The service teams were |
surprisingly disappointing; the Navy |
team this year could not compare |
with last year’s league winners. |
However, if Dalhousie can show as|
much improvement next year as it}
did this year, we will have no doubt |
of our success in the legue. |

 

November 19, 1943

 

After any Show

OF .««

Before any Meal

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

Quality Shoes
For Fall

Compliments of

Wallace Bros.

Limited

415 BARRINGTON ST.

Halifax, N. S.

 

The best
chocolate made

 

  

“Coke”= Coca: Cola

 

  

|

|
Time after time, Cole, with si steady i
strokes and burning backhand had .
_ Bauld leaning on the ropes. The |
f pace grew faster and faster until
finally Bauld had to retire because
a -of an injury sustained.
oe: Although better known in tennis
Bt circles Phil takes part in many
} «sports with the same brilliancy he
splays at tennis. For two years

he was a member of the crew that

It’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations. That's

why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.

   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

Follow the rest of the boys
for your Footwear to

   

role with the Windsor Maple Leafs.
Also he is an ardent hunter and at
every opportunity he goes in search
of duck, rabbit or deer.

 

a ery q ‘i hy

y yt
Ss ep

eS

      

   

—

  
  

if yo
— = I nt a sutallutiniitied ith a

...0r how to break the ice in oe

Have a “Coke,” says the Canadian soldier in Iceland, and in
three words he has made a friend. It works in Reykjavic as
it does in Regina. ’round the globe Coca-Cola stands for
the pause that refreshes—has become the ice-breaker between
kindly-minded strangers.

SHANE’S SHOE STORE

    
  

397 BARRINGTON ST. 3-9144

  
  
 

   
  
   
  
   

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone 3-6881

    

 

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
Phone 3-7133 . HALIFAX

    
  

   
 

 
 

remacy in Nova Scotia yacht ~the global
He is so good at running

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halif : :
ee high-sign gs

   

 

   

afl 2 ; we) ah ws
f : es Sale, i : Sam SU MMR a a | re A ; ge — = ee ia ~ ~ =

 

 
