  
   
 
    
   
  

 

* * * *

uy

 

Pr ck : ;

| STUDENTS AND PROFESSORS

camer It is hereby decreed by his honor, the General-Com| ee -mandant of Nova Scotia, acting at this day in the Hitler

“a
a
-_—

Hotel, Halifax, Jan. 16, to all residents of the city of Halifax, particularly to the residents of Dalhousie University—

o (1) Curfew laws, hitherto mildly enforced by the GerPata es man authorities, will be enforced by the death
penalty: no one will be on the street after 7 0 ’clock
| | _», at night;

J eT we:

4 - (2), For the safety of the cause in-which we are now
NI a roe joined, all groups or meetings have been cancelled
| Re which entail more than three people: this is a pre, caution taken solely against Judocratic bombings;

San (3). Students and Professors of this University will

BA -  gtrictly adhere to these rules, and all students are

strictly forbidden outside the limits of an area to

include as far east as Hitler Haven, west to Oxford

St., north to Quinpool Road, and west to Wilhelmstrasse Plaza.

“ eo
aw

(4) All students who have residence in the city, and
those professors whose homes are outside this area,
will report to the Library for reclassification into

one of the several residences conveniently located
on the campus;

(5) All male students of military fitness are required
to turn in their uniforms immediately to the Col
SS

 

ie Chaualty List New Plan of Study

B _ Of O.T.C. High

si ‘The Neai authorities - in Halifax . Scholarship Cleared
; have not released final figures of the

-_ Josses the O.T.C. suffered during the
| Battle of St. Margarets Bay Road
on January 4, but in a special inter
  
    
 
  
  
  
  
      
    
       
   
 
  
 
 
 
      

All existing scholarships at the
University have been pooled together
in a common fund for the “promo
view with a Zeitung re tion of the Aryan culture’, and

_ Brigadier Herman Bunsen-Ott, in| particularly with regard to langu
charge of the Halifax _ Dasretad tars. it was announced yesterday

- paid special praise to the fighting |from the front office, Goebbel’s
4 yee of the disbanded unit. | Memorial Library. Under the new

don’t ‘mind telling you, icash plan, proficient students learning

   

ae.

> me the German language would be given
e st 7 wh ic a ' - 5 these scholarships for their work in
|the half-term courses which have
been set up.

Much of the funds will be given to
|\the promotion. of science studies,
a Heboagh work in this department is
junder the hands of chemical experts
ii of the German Infantry.

*

     
 
 
  
  
   
   

» aA
7

j three Lieutenants, — N.C.
and seventy-five cadets. of

 

 

 
 
 

01 ally? given a military Renaet,
ao ‘the former cadets could

 

Proclamation

‘Students Shot For
Announced: Award of Hoarding Activities

*

  

=
Tv

 

n Moncton Front Pivcers Threaten city

pent a ian senses

 

 

OF DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

lector-Sergeant at the Gymnasium by January 17,
and failure to comply with this means treatment

as a Spy;

All male students of military fitness, and professors under the age of 55, must register immediately
for physical fitness programs to be held thriceweekly at various construction centress;

(6)

Those who are military unfit will leave the University, for deportation to Sable Island;

(7)

The General-Commandant wishes to notify the
students and professors of Dalhousie University that the march to the new order will be more unsparing than before, and all must cooperate. Such
privileges as have been taken away are as a result
of the America-Canadian resistance;

(8)

Students and professors must take Air raid drill
once a night until the present menace of bombings
is over;

(9)

Students and professors will otherwise obey University discipline, as set forth in the University
Calendar, latest issue.

(10)

=m /
Fedor von Bock,

Commandant-General, Halifax.

 

‘Changes For Zeitung
Stalf Are Announced

Newly appointed editor of the
Zeitung is Kart von Goeppler, who
recently succeeded nonAryanite R.
J. MeCleave, killed in the battle of
St. Margaret’s Bay Road. Von Goeppler, a fifth cousin to Germany’s
greatest journalist, Dr. P. Goebbels,
is eminently suited for the task.

However, appointments have béen
made at a frequent rate in the Zeitung, due to the inability of radicals
tc conform with the new order. News
editor Shields was caught harboring
another member of the staff, Kel
Antoft, suspected of being a socialist, and both have been executed.

Ed Morris, sports editor, has been
arrested for underground activities.

Only editor to retain his position
was Peter Donkin, until an objectionable article to the new enlightenment was traced to him. He is at
present in solitary confinement in
the barracks.

Von Goeppler has stated he had
found a most unAryan hodge-pagdge

 

Gauleiter von Burnstedt, official |
Nazi ,adviser to /the University,
brought to the attention of the Zeitung, shortly before publication
deadline last night, that already
several students had been arrested
and executed for hoarding activities
and that citizens of Halifax were
also arrested for concealment of
sugar and butter supplies.

“It is hard to punish such recalcitrance, for we represent humanity,
but all must recognize the people
must cooperate or die”! Queried
further about the students, von
Burnstedt disclosed no names, but
said they had been prominent, communist-inspired agitators.

The Nazi leader also disclosed
that the Jewish students at the University had been deported to Sable
Island, where they are fitting in
“better and better with our war effort”. Other non-Aryan students
students have answered the call to

work in the Cape Breton coal mines.

   
 

a asked id to 0 appraise the defensive possibilities of Halifax. |

 
   

ba i

Wie caw NA aA ers 2
" ic Red Cross Ball

\

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  

is

‘*

~“

Von Burnstedt Bence New —
Orders To Dal Attention

“The Nazi new order can not tolerate slackers or traitors
in its midst,” declared Gauleiter Herman von Burnstedt to the
assembled student body of Dalhousie University yesterday’
noon, and at the same time gave news of further German victories in New Brunswick against an American-Canadian army.
(See story, page 3).

“We are all in this together,” he said, “and there is the definite

goal of the new order to be considered. You in the Maritimes
have been chosen by the Fuehrer (cries of ‘Heil Hitler’
the speech here) for the role of leadership.

operate it will mean misery for all.”

interrupted
If you refuse to co
Included at the meeting, besides the revised Faculty, was General
Fedor von Bock, who received a full salute from his troops when he entered the Gymnasium. In a short message to the people, spoken through
an interpreter, von Book promised the victories of the German army in
capturing Nova Scotia would be repeated on a larger seale elsewhere and
that the final day of victory would find the Maritimes and Nazi Germany
hand-in-glove towards the benefits of the new order.

 

| Von Burnstedt began his address 
| by laying down general rules for

Homefront

Rigor Intelligensiae. Eleven students left the University as a result’ Ward were present, including Naziof the Christmas exams. In the| elect Alderman Burpler) but his talk
opinion of students, the set was the | mainly bore on the part the stuhardest ever. In the opinion of) “y

science students, Chemistry One was
|must warn you that your recent

a Rasa larimer. work in alien uniform will be counted

Players. All male actors for the| against you: you have only been
three-act play are invited to contact | given reprieve because you presumLevitz at once, within the week, for | ably represent the intellectual stock
their tryouts. : of your civilization”.

civilian behavior in the new order
(a large part of the civilians of the

    

nts would have to perform.

 

Presidential-Proxy. Tom Patter-| ‘Students duties under the new
son, vice-president of the Students’ jorder include: a preponderant swing
Council, is assuming the duties of |to science and German (“the true
president. Henry Tonning interning | !@nguage of science”, von Burnstedt
Ter RE | Tinton | |\sald) and a dropping of English,
| Classies and certain courses in Poli
ee, t it’s nice . -lans have
b G = zh “ h te . | tical Science. Citing the cases of
> ac 2 > ’ <
CO> RED SO) FORD! The) ATER. t0F | ceveral professors whom he had

student skating. All out. (And 4 ea forced to order shot the day
just got up off the floor after New | ‘before, von Burnstedt declared: “a

Year). + |sad case—their minds were obviousJohn Mac-| ly set upon inviolate truth, but there
was from the first of their education
a wrong standard of dogmatism”.
At the end of the megsting, all
In the wind, a different kind | non-Aryan students attending the
| Univ ersity were told to remain, and
|register, Later in the day, Shirreff
Hall was officially exacuated by the

week’s ee will tell eee about girl students (who will be returned
that all-important Red Cross Ball,
to duties elsewhere) and given over

ee is = be that night so to the men as a residence. The last
y tickets early. of the students of adjoining naval

You asked for it . . . everybody | fficerial schools were removed to inis clamoring for dancing now as | terior camps, and the rest of the

 

‘Destiny with Aspirin.
Innes, Law student, has been
pointed by the Students’ Council to
head the important Munro Day com. |
mittee.
of day.

White Hope, Red Cross. Next

ap
 

prospects get duller in an already|™ale student body given their
dull city. Why not attend one of | quarters.
the few being given now?

 

|

of ideas and journalism in the office
when he took over, but has since
made it habitable. Recent appointments to the staff include Felix Bur- |

 

Red Cross Ball

Tickets for the Red Cross Ball
should be procured at once.’ Only

 

pler, as culture editor, Hans Ferd-| 250 couples will be Allowed into the
inando as Music critic, and Joe Hir-| dance, and the tickets are held for
students buying until Tuesday noon, |
when they will be released for sale.
to the general public.

okaro as European editor.
Others include Hans Wolfgang
Schneider as military commentator.

 

 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  

- ed in ne events, which are

we fee
ie or numbed
oe

~

s fi re cae to enka. ‘The Puchror sesh stated in
ressage a the Occupied Maritimes:
| ose in conquest will be to finally establish, in

i ¢
,: ro P

“producti ve agricultural, mining, electrical-powered

 

___and raw power areas of the world, a civilization worthy of
Pia We. have two programs:

g ia. fa) to exterminate alien and unwanted races from
os Ss 3 itaminating the new social order;

spit - to infuse into a hitherto sprawling and unRien ie - unorthodox civilization regimentation—to purge

this judocratic and insensate society of the odium
of adulteration by unAryan races, and to thus
strengthen this society for culture.

Oe course 452 ultimate goal of the latest conquest is the final
and complete capture of this continent.

) us in Germany it has been one of the great mysteries,
y explainable to stupidity on your part, why the MariProvinces had not become an, entity apart from the en: ein Americo stifilization. Once you had economic
mpleteness, and your carrying trade with wooden vessels was
premier in your economy. toe you have lost this ability, but
® Worse than losing your heritage, you have become vassal to the
_ €conomic slavery imposed upon you from judocratic Upper

He tag n ada and United States.

ae For you in the New Order we, the Aryans of the world,
Dp! ea golden age. As part of German territories under
est you will become for a while the centre of a terrific

battle while the German army prepares for further conquest.
Now we can only promise you sweat, and blood and tears, for
ur cities will be ,and your territories subjected to the

   
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

 

 

of the American-Canadian armies.
i invader is being driven from your soil and soon you, as the
. firs t of the invasion, will take your place as the co-leaders
of a tens civilization. —
| Yours: is a temperament @anarkabliy like the repressed
' of the post-Great War years. Yours is the capacity
for leadership which has been thwarted and perverted by the
ju rats from outside, in regions of more power. They have
_ enslaved you, but with German teachings you will become fit to
dead. Many of you are of German descent, and others of a
_ mixed ‘Aryan-Italo descent.. But most of you are English,
French, Scotch or Irish. However, race will not- bar anyone,
Aryan qualities are apparent in you.

  
   

, to join in the fight against the armies now opposed
oe night, several large cities were bombed by Ameriies in retaliation for our destruction of Boston and
- Asa survey of the ruins indicate, the primary objec| five of the ae ke wes civilian residential districts. This in
iminate ter was prompted by the Judocrats of our
ates ok fear lest you see the wisdom of our side,
am join the New Order. It was intimidation, and not. war,
hat ‘prompted the airplanes to make their raid,

We can can promise you that the Luftwaffe, when' it arrives
in ne ree will more than repay this inhumanity;
é wreck at the air the homes of these would-be

Lai of nd. Meanwhile, you must take comfort in
anti-aircraft defences of the city of Halifax disred enemy: planes in two weeks of fighting, and

( ee the American eagle, from the skies.

 
 

 

tha ut now is The clarion to freedom. Aryans
made you superior to be superior. Aryans,
ch or British or Japanese, and Italian
ly to arms. crush the Judocrats, the
2 vees no more, but conquerors we.

aan armies are now victorious every
efore a nest of mice. England is now pinies 2h » will endure. North Africa, Ita

 

But already |

_ With this in mind, we urge you, as co-workers, and not as }

which drew out Russian re-|

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

FARMERS’

“What track are you on, sir?”
On the track of some Sweet Caps”

 

MILK

Is Stimulating .. . It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED
O
DRUGGISTS

37 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX

Phone B-7133

Headquarters for Students

Requirements
CO

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

 

 

IT TAKES
ALL KINDS

If it were not for the sales
of gem diamonds, the
price of industrial dia
monds would rise.

In other words, one gem
three
diamonds for

diamond provides
industrial

war work,

Eat at...

TEA ROOM

B-9571

Think of .

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

Registered Jeweller

American Gem Society

The

Green Lantern

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty ‘

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc.,

B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses io eee standing, leading to degrees

of M.A.,

eta eee to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through

the courses,

The Professional Faculties

in

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

Residence

 Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 

 

 

 

 

FLOWER SHOP

 

EVANGELINE

06%2 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

Before any Meal

wf}

 

| proper

| his latest pieces of work!

 

FOR

The, New Year has arrived,

 

1943

A page has turned in that great book we called the book of time.
A fresher page awaits the written scroll
Of those events the.future will assign.

The old year, grim and weary-faced, has fled,
The new year, bright and shining in its youth,
Bears promises fresh-minted as new coin,

The reborn hope of justice, peace, and truth.

And so while looking back we look ahead,
Joining the wish of all humanity,
That bonds shall break and tyranny lie dead,

And Victory be ours in 1943.

—K. E. B.

 

THE NOSE

A Tale of Mystery and Imagination
By EDGAR ALLAN WOE

Mad? . Mad, say you?...
Will you say that I am mad?
listen! Has a madman cunning such
as I had? Does he lay his plans as
slyly, does he divise his schemes as
artfully, does he design his artifices
as craftily as I did? Listen.

It was the old man’s nose that led
me to kill him, I cannot describe that
nose in adequate terms. You cannot
conceive the effect it had upon me.
It was not that is was excessively
large, nor yet oddly-shaped; yet it
had an inexpressively maddening

quality about it. He used to sniff)

with it incessantly ...snf! snf! ..
until often I would be obliged to flee
from the room and conceal myself in
the farthermost recess of my chamber, beating my head with rage.
Even there, the sound would penetrate my brain... snf! snf! ...
would mock my senses . .. snf! snf!
. and would goad me on.
snf. snf! .

throughout the halls and eorridors
|

‘| conceivable thing occurred!

then I began to laugh ..
with glee at my success.

. to shout
My jubilant exultations filled the dungeon,
and echoed and echoed again

of the grim castle , .. helthethe! .

he! helhe! .. .he!he!the! . . . hethe!

he! And I left the dim chamber and

sealed thé door, to be opened Never
. Nevermore!

For many days I congratulated
myself on my cleverness. And then
one night, as I was entertaining
. how I shudder to
. this in
As we
conversed ... concerning what E do
not recall, it matters not ... I] suddenly fancied I heard a noise, as of
a faint stirring, issuing from the
dungeon workshop beneath. A new
sensation, a vague uneasiness, stole
ever me. I listened intently ...
hark! But my guests had heard

some guests ..

recall it! ... this awful . .

. to redoubled fury. Oh, eres the conversation went on.

you ‘cannot know, you who stand! suddenly I sat bolt upright on my

outside my prison door and reiterate
with blind insistence that I am mad,
you cannot know what tortures the

old man inflicted on me with this|
fiendish appendage!
At last, I devised a canning |

scheme whereby to rid myself forever of the old mam and his nose.
Ah, patiently
moment,
seized the first opportunity to execute my plan. ..I giggle with mirth
whenever I think of it! How cleverly concealed my intentions,
with what outward calm I
him to conduct me upon a tour of
his subterranean workshop, under
the pretense of desiring to examine
(But did
I forget to tell you he was a coffinmaker?) Finally, I arrived at the
culmination of my plot. I drew his
attention to a certain newly-finished
coffin. I peered into it In the imperfect lights as if trying to discern
something inside it. I ealled
attention to it.

how

were

ing, and he placed his foolish head
ever farther into the burial-case and
scrutinized intently its black interior. Suddenly, swiftly, with an
irresistable thrust I forced his head
down into the coffin. On the bottom 6f its interior I had nailed a
strong rat-trap, equipped with a
powerful spring. It snapped on his
nose! In a moment I had bundled
him into the coffin and screwed down
the top. Not a word, not a motion
had the old man offered in protest,
so taken was he by surprise. But

as the last serew was made secure
a low, reverberating moan issued
from the coffin, whicch for a moSie evebs te aa ne
But only for a moment? “Aw

ble.

 

I awaited the |
how gleefully I)

asked |

his }
He in turn peered | and the
in. He declared he could see noth-/| 4;,,

chair, and a fearful horror gripped
my heart. A sound .. . unmistakable ... of ripping timbers, of tearing planks arose from the subter‘anean cavity below! I became seized with a violent trembling .

| Fools! Had they not heard it? Were
| they

deaf ?
But they
calmly.
painfully,

Senseless ? Listen!
continued to. converse
Listen! Footsteps slowly,

faltering ascended the
dungeon steps; a frenzied panic laid
hold of me. I leapt to my feet:
“Madman!” I cried in despair, “It is
he!” and there from behind
the sealed door the sound of a voice,
at first trembling moan, then
welling and expanding, louder and
and higher and higher, and
culminating in one long, continuous
shriek, terminating abruptly in -a
loud sniff! Such a demoniacal wail,
such a fiendish howl as could
surely have issued but from the utdepths of the very Pit itself!

came
a low,

louder

most

Therewith the door burst asunder
emaciated form of my vicfell headlong upon the floor!
His clothing was torn and dishevelled and covered with blood. His
countenance was chalky-white, and
his nose . . . yet encumbered by the
rat-trap! ... his hideous nose stood
forth in resuscitated zhastliness before my terror-stricken gaze!

I swooned from fright. When my
eyes opened once more, I found myself in this damp cell. I do not
deny the murder . . . on the contrary, I admit it freely; I am ready
for the gallows, I await the executioner with calm. Only one thing
I ask of you, one thing I entreat
- +. in the name of Mercy, will you
Say, will you insist that I am mad?

« —H.F.A.

 

 
   

 

 
 
 

i re , flo oncton ‘Still Resists. But
et a all Seems Near At Hand

    

 

an. Wire sins ide

 
   
       

  

Le Halifax, January 14 — (DNB) —
4 uo “i ey d
4 te | Sheet ashe, - Halifax road, its;An all-out assault by the German
~ DNB ctae Mater aie ss | spearheads were encircled, its com-|dive-bombers seemed to bring the
aa
mn

   

munications cut off, its forward de-|end of Moncton near tonight. The
fence postscut down one by one,| last centre of Americo-Canadian re- |
} until, after constant air bombard-| sistance, the city’s defences are
 Pnant. the remnant, some 5,000 fn nen, | quickly crumbling and within a week
including one general and other} General von Bock has predicted the
high-ranking officers, was forced into | all-out assault to be launched on the
a retreat that became a rout as/ American border.
they fled back to the city. Little From his headquarters somewhere
organized resistance was encounter- in the New Brunswick inland, the
ed from that point to the bank of General, recently awarded the GoldHalifax »Harbor. en Eagle, by the Fuehrer, is hurOur other arm, approaching Ahe riedly awaiting the thrust towards
city from the west, met stiffer de-| New York. With American forces
fences which, joined with the na-| overseas in isolated groups, and
tural barriers of the country, slowed | Starving to death, and most Canatheir progress. Once, indeed, our dian forces incapacitated, the only
advancing infantry, following some- | resistance to be met, as the General
what to the rear of our tank forces,|humorlessly explains, are to be
ran into a eunning ambush set by a found in a “few bands of rebels”.
large foree of the enemy, under a
top-ranking officer of the Canadian
Horse, and composed partly of the
province’s Reserve troops, which displayed unusual ability for its democratie decadence. Our tank forces
returning in time, however, this
Maritime force was put to fight and
its leader taken prisoner.

bee mpaign for the ‘esis Shela as Still aking |
just « c moa by th oc- ‘trot are es i will be
at . a aay ' newton ed. ‘

ty Be Sa Ea - Parachutists—

| Pie's Tha: Second Parachute Brigade,
, and has made un oe near Halifax, encountered

i : - ea stiff

 
 
  
   
   
 
 
    
  

 
 
   
 

     
   
 

 
 
  
 
 
 

    
     
 
   

  

er Yesistance than had been
execu-| thought possible, and were unhappily |
the wiped | out; only, however, after
| holding | the airport for three hours
1e | and wreaking irreparable damage to

ae ePas- installations, planes, hangars, equip.. anti sane a ' apes ete. It is to the loyal and uneee bese flinching action of this brave force
AP ‘that ‘much of the credit for Nazi
the | Successes in this area must be given.
_ | Air action became more intense
Bp the next few daYs, as German
forces seized more fields and were
able to bring” in increasingly large
numbers of fighters and bombers.
The enemy meanwhile, partially recovering from the initial attack,
frantically sent more fighters into
the air, but most of their planes
were slow and out-moded, and easy
matches for the tigers of the Luftwaffe, so that by the end of the next

 
  
  
  
    
    
 
 

     
  
 

 
  
   
     
  
  
  

 
 
   
   
       
   
   
  
     
     

Yesterday the General could announce the entrance into Moncton
on the east side, and the city’s outskirts, as far as Steadman Street
have been captured. In the bend of
the Peticodiae river, an arrow at
eae pomacn of the city, 2 group of Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola itself. Customers smile
artillery bridgades is laying down a
heavy barrage. Street-to-street suiweek enemy air resistance had - _Dal-Kings 0.7.C. ee has featured the defence of
nearly ceased. | The Officer’s Training Corps ot | city, as at Stalingrad.

Losses Huge this university took up its stand in a

cee eal Gran. palcndinged tke narrow part of the -road, with the
dotat Bone Sak bined e ates at cliffs on the right and the Atlantic
@35\in the air, in five days’ fighting, Ocean, soon to be a German Sea,, on
arid well over 1700, of all yenealot the right. Fighting gallantly to the |
Gin eovd. Our own losses amount- last in what they must have known
ed to 147, but the crews of at least | “#5 3 hopeless struggle, they were
50% \nk these have ben! aired. cas finally almost annihilated. oe
well as valuable engines, fuselages, Story, Page 1). It is unfortunate

  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
   

 
    
 

     
  
   
    
   
    

of the pe peo aoe: ehaeoa areas
have n taken, and the stability
ii ace) id order ‘of National Socialism have
been, made evident to the new subau of Greater | Germany, a local
under a Gauleiter ap
> ointed ‘by the Feuhrer will take
over the duties of administering the
_ country in the best interests of the

. re
!

" Suprise Premier
‘The yalue of the element of surPe prise in the campaign Was apparent
from. the first. Flying from secret
bases.in Greenland, huge four-motor| ss Nazi bombers swooped low from
ie "overhanging clouds on the morning
fd January 1 to. blast Halifax those questioned answered that the
un adily. for three hours, area _|ete. from our planes. Nine Iron bala eS Tal Fuehrer’s beauty was unequalled Deer pelts ah Ug nL le Nh IS 9 rr
ire inute intervals. Taken Mere, crosses and four Oak Leaves to the nt se aes y ea ae anywhere. ee ae ee tee iat eels
Le | Reeewraee the people of the city, some Iron Cross have been awarded to|,. © SHCh @ fruitless attempt to de DALHOUSIANS ...
a 1 celebrating the convng of the h f thes fend the dead and rotting principle rs .
ote os idle one plane ibang PSE pean a What Was the Best Planned Mili- for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
- s, others still in epee beds, tye ee | : tary Operation of the Year? — In PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
al of slothful democracy, wete ,

“That's the happy greeting heard today when a

   
 

new supply of Coke arrives at a cooler. Folks

    
    

wait for it... wait because the only thing like

aya

    
  

     
 
 

  
 
 

    
  
 
  

     
  

and start moving up to pause and be refreshed.

     
  
     

  
      
  

ie

  
    
   
    
 

“There’s a cheerful spirit about this way of

    

f
;
a

 

G.I. P. O.

(German Institute of Public Opinion)

   
    
  

accepting wartime restrictions. Morale is high.”

 

 
   
  
      
 
   

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
Who Is The Best Looking Man of HALIFAX
1942? — One hundred percent of

   
      
  
 

 

 
  
 

655

 
 

 

 
 

    
  
  
  

  
  
    
 
    
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
    
   
   
   
  
     
    
  
   
  
  
    
  

Ue ae

 

 

th Nl b bed ber th Citadel Hill answer to this question 60% of those KODAKS, CIGARS
ey will be presented, by the grace : ifax itself, which | asked termed the brilliant invasion
panic-stricken. ‘Anti-aircraft defenc- of the Feuhrer himself, to the faa In the city of Halifax itself, whic eae : a K I N L EF Y H S
re "were destroyed, many of them ij f b our brave soldiers first entered late | 0 astern Canada as the most dar
f never firing a shot. With the ex- heres our es ‘in the-day of January 7, desperate|ing in history. Another 40 percent

THE REXALL STORES
Br agsanl of nearby dumps, added to | Out-generalled street fighting from the ruined hous-| thought Rommel’s strategic retreat 490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOPEL
he rain of our ‘incendiaries, huge} On the ground, the campaign |es and factories continued for three|Was one of the geratest military
; spread ‘Yapidly over the city.) everywhere showed the still invinei- | days, and the defence of the great| victories. No mention was made of
Roads were blocked and rail and| ble power of the Nazi arms. Land-| fortress of Citadel Hill, where the | Hitler's intuition, obviously the most
wire | communications quickly de-|ings were accomplished on January shattered remnants of the Imperia-}important part of the

  
  

 

 

| successful! =THE NATIONAL FISH CO. CAPITOL
\ stroyed. | , 4, at St. Margaret’s Bay, St. John list Armies gathered, continued unti]| battle of Russia. ; LIMITED
Later in the day, waves of Blohm o ee a re tec eer i the ae 2 Die an pace ee ads 2 ides an VD FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS §|] Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
i : when the army of the west, under Co
J d Voss HA. 138’s, Focke-Wulf |of the mainland, as well as on Prince a
preside and Dornier Do. 26’s again Edwrd Island. . The latter, largely a | Fritz, established contact with the|tive, as our Leader’s armies have| HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA *
raided the city, dropping almost half | flat farming country, and a great | eastern army of Colonel Heinrausch

»|Shown from end to end of Europe,
a million pounds of high-explosive storehouse of food on which the Ger-| which crossed Halifax Harbor by|and the ignorant farmers of this

POPOL LO

f pontoon bridges. The part of the country would be well
| a cendiary bombs. While some|man Herrenyolk will celebrate the} means 0 | y

os in bt air was encountered latest triumph of National Socialism | Citadel , softened by all-night pound- | advised to return peacefully to their F ader’s Drug Stores 7

 

“FLYING

i"

 
 

 
 
   
  

   
 

| : | 99
i in this second attack, since some of | Was easily overrun by the armored | ing by our air forces, fell before | homes and obey the rule of their 135 HOLLIS STREET FOR T R E. S S
im e enemy had recovered from the corps and infantry of our 62 and 65 ee to the combined oT of | local Nazi organizer, if they would 29 rhe eee ROAD |
Divisions. the two armies, and at 1703 ours, | ese ape the inevitable and strict reparalysis of the first blow, German . f : ; ALIFAX N Seoti: RICHARD
losses were far below those of the Widens Renate |9.03 Atlantic Time, General von|criminations their folly with other-| / AX Nova Scotia | '
| 4 | foe. Later, with the occupation of | With fhe 1 £ of the Brit; ;, | Bock witnessed the raising of the! wise draw down upon their heads. | GRE EN
: ; fF Pee RBEY OF Eke ers battle-honoured swastika which a |
the city, enemy dead were found to and Allied Navies destroyed :
4 120,000, and casualties 234,- j y ‘month before had ‘flown over the | Pomorow—Our World *
fh swnumber i. "| scuttled in Halifax Harbor, including | heichts of Stali d |. Thus in a space of two weeks the
300, 95 of their fighters were shot’ two warships two aircraft carriers, | Fare oh Sealneend, | = i - eae 5 (ey x . : *
: ron Thea : oo ‘armies of General von Boe c, the indown the first day, and 267 of their Seven heavy cruisers, 12 light cruis- | The people of the ey ned ‘the i ie le Pins : ; aoe Q + Thursday - Friday - Saturda
\; Planes, fighters and bombers, de- ers, 2% destroyers, 15 submarines, | *'Teets, and raised their cheers to|Comparable Luftwaffe and the Ger-|| Sat. Mon., Tues., Jan. 16, 18, 19 |) . cane e
; ’ 3 : | man naval might have proved our eeetanat tA
| ee. on theg: round. numerous tankers, transports, sup- |the skies, as the German army, led PS or asa ae ue ition br a SEVEN MILES FROM 66 }
Pia ply ships and smaller vessels, Ger- | by the General himself, paraded | PCLOVE aaa ke a | ALCATRAZ”
Barr omens Wily) man ships were almost unhampered | through the ‘streets to the Govern-|fules the land, the sea, and the ae | and SHORTS
- Other Maritime capitals were in landing operations in Nova Scotia |™¢Dt buildings. That they were hap-| 1" the Greater Germany that is to), ——__—__-___ — || YANKEES”
‘raided simultaneously, including St. E op py at their acceptance into the New | Come out of this titanic struggle, the | Wed., Sark, Fri., Jan. 20, 21, 22
John, Charlottetown and Sydney. and New Brunswick. Nine yeaa d th 4 littl lout gc| names of the gallant Nazis who ar . . or Sn : ‘ r >
amag | Ports and one destroyer were lost to|OTder there can be little doubt, as| } ing || DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES'|||G AR Y COOPER
D e was exceedingly heavy, vast our Army .photographer’s pictures | fought and died for the everlasting
| _areas being destroyed, and defences floating mines as they steamed up| ,

  
  
   
   
 

“BLACK LIMELIGHT”

   

   
      
 

the Bay of Fundy to attack St. John | FT°Y¢- Everywhere I haye accom-| Slory of a eee this or
and Moncton, but most of the men |Patied our conquering armies, poe i ety oa mas aa whe
reached shore safely, St: John was Rotterdam, into Athens, into Rostov, Hoe the ae fe te Fuehrer _
surprised and taken before reinforee- | #4 Kiev, and Smolensk, I have seen | their ; a ha ; be as a as
ments could be brought up, and|the tears of thankfulness and the | Perey sti hes iS ‘ae ey to. the
Moncton surrounded. (See story | Smiles of welcome on the faces of | a Se x eh Ps a nh a am
leekarnnl thies). the newly-delivered peoples. In Hal- |!" Stars on the hearts of their counBa ls hk Talthce’ wise ae ifax, I found the populace as joyous | ttymen, Rulers of the Earth. Heil
battle for ‘ax Ww :

lyzed. Civilian morale, already
riously weakened. by three and oneyears, of privations under the
to e rule of Mackenzie King
an la group. of selfish capitalists,
roke easily, and. ‘nearly as. many
civilians were killed in the panies |
| ing the raids | as were killed in

 

 

$$ ____.

CASINO
*

 

    
 

  
 

 

  
   
 
    
 

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“BIG BLOCKADE”

   
 

  
   
  

 
 

 

    
 

    
 
 

 
 

 
  
 
     
   
  
  
   

   
  
      

 

: 5 d SHORTS’:
apie as that of Norway, or Holland or | Hitler. J 5 Oy — a
jhe ra ds eee ,|am the Mae ale of ae Yugoslavia, as ee. to" itiei | te | | merene Week

unusually strong there. Even after
the noble exploit of our Second
Parachute Brigade, air resistance
ee almost until our men were

 
  
 
  
  
  

 
   
   
 
   

the Poles, Thursday - Friday - Saturday

Five The Greatest of the New
“WRECKING CREW” Year’s Great Pict
“FORBIDDEN TRAILS” ear S xrea ic ures

ARABIAN
NIGHTS |

*

Lic vie ar previ
! SA SS
Ngee forces

_ Potatoes, Foxes
The rest of the province of Nova
se in sight of the city}, then many| Scotia, as were New Brunswick and |
wag | Planes, in defiance of our order to! Prince Edward Island, was easily ’
hi i: remain on the ground, immobile, and| taken over by our forces. Only in Naugler s

_ {in direct, violation of international | the tiny area known as the An- O h

. to bases to the north, napolis Vailley, besides Moncton, is rc es t ra
tack on Halifax _  |there still a scattered resistance. vi 7"

=e The inhabitants of this. area, doubt
‘for t : ce
ap aie ices less showing the influence of their yt

sh ‘east i aves in a|@ncounters with the Redskins, have

at ‘pincer move- taken to the hills, and are carrying

eee tne

 
  
 

 

  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
  
  
  
  

Jerry

   
 
 
    
    
  
 
    

 

  
  
   
   
  

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday

“LADIES IN RETIREMENT”
“KID GLOVE KILLER”

Se hl ne ae ee Pe |)
Wednesday and Thursday
“LARCENY INCORPORATED”

  
   
    
  
  

   
    
  
 

    
  

amy found them.|" 24vanced types of jxuerilla war- 38 SHORE ROAD “JUST OFF BROADWAY”
ee A force of | fare from Windsor to Digby. This Call H-6032 Friday and Saturday in Technicolor

    
 
  

“FLIGHT LIEUTENANT”

mat type of warfare, whik ‘roublesome
; Smet 4 . the | He A EN AN

Owe [and annoying, is extremely ineffec
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
  

 

\

|

~

 

 

»- Aryan, non-German students.

Lb

 

New Order

By Always an Aryan

The decree of Dr. Franz Schreckmann, Commissioner of the new National Socialist government, who is
in charge of the Bureau of Aryan
Culture, should prove a sharp lesson to the Jew-inspired lunatics who
have preached the dangerous doctrine of liberty. Already it has been
necessary to shoot seven students
and two professors wlio have not
shown the proper Aryan gratitude
for the benevolent protection of the
great German Reich under their
great leader, Hitler.

You students who are now entering the great era, if you give your
unquestioned loyalty to your German
superiors, will be pleased to learn
that a German culttral committee
has investigated the state of the university library. It was found that
this so-called library w&s filled with
the most dangerous and subversive
tripe, which is in the-future to be
used as fuel in the home of our
great Gaulieter. The committee is
already busily at work filling the
empty library shelves with copies of
der Fuehrer’s great classic, ‘Mein
Kampf. It has also been decided
that the library may have one copy

of the great classic on economics by

Adam Muller for the benefit of

..honour students. However, this book

is om reserve for German Aryan
students only.

Henceforth, in the interests of efficiency, all university students must
attend “Aryan Awakening” the textbook will be “Mein Kampt”, and
from time to time additional outside
reading will be required, for which
“Mein Kamp” will be suitable. Distinction work will consist of writing an essay praising “Mein Kampf”
All university students taking Arts,
Science, Commerce, Medicine, En
/Bineering, Dentistry or Law will be
required to complete the class Aryan
Awakening. :

The university. store is to continue .

as usual, with the exception that
no coffee, tea, chocolate bars, cigarettes, or meals may be sold to nonThis
will not be a great sacrifice however,
as none of these things are available in North America anyway.
Books sold in the store will consist
of the following: “Mein Kampt”.
The Nickelodia has been repaired,
and the following selections may be
heard for the price of one mark:
“The Horst Wesel Song”. These records are to be turned over once per
week and on the other sides students
may hear the beautiful national anthem “Deutchland Uber Alles”.

Little Deutschland, rich and strong,

Aryan maidens straight and tall,

Aryans all at Deutschland’s call,

Greater Deutsehland, rules the

CANADA’S NATIONAL ANTHEM
(Official)

Our land of the Fueher’s pride,
Might is right and ne’er is wrong,
Greatest pow’r to thee betide!

Aryan youths with vigour blest,

Seek ye after toil, not rest.

world!
Germans enemies defy!
Swastikas shall ne’er be furled!
Deutschland uber Alles sei!

—Kurt von Narr.

 

Suggestions

Why not start some kind of University club now? Several suggestions have been’ received: (1) A
Music Club, with the purpose of providing social entertainment, preferably during the week-end—records,
refreshments, and concluding with
dancing; (2) a Political and Social
Science Club, the object being the
study of modern and classical literature that falls into this field, from
poetry to political documents—guest
speakers, discussions and debates;
(3) a mixed Glee Club.

These suggestions will be diseussed in greater detail in next week’s
issue. In the meantime let us know

opinion regarding such extra-curricular activities is.

pler, who has written the above—
Ed.) is the music club. But make
your own check on the proposals.

 

’ Above is

shown the German

Anyone opposing the new found| General, most responsible next to

on the fooball field as amusement

" for the German army on festival oc
casions,

Fuehrer for the greatest German
victory of history. The strategics
of his conquest of North America
demanded an all-out assault over
thousands of miles of water. It is
a superb triumph of logistics.

 

by “Letter to the Editor” what your

Most novel of
these suggestions (by Harry Zap
Above is a scene of the triumphal entry of the German
forces into Halifax. A mechanized battalion is pictured in
part moving up Spring Garden Road. Note people cheering.
In the background is the Lord Nelson Hotel. In the other
cut, a carchitecture is shown of a statue shortly to be erected
on the campus.

 

Above is shown a number of Ger-| Nazi bombers in weakening the city
man He. 111’s, setting out to bomb/| from attack. Parachutists (left)
Halifax on the fateful morning of | also played an important part in the
January ist; planes of this type) latest German victory.
finished the work begun by heavier

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience
Write or call for Calendar or advice te i

F. H. SEXTON, President.

 

 

}

 

  

Picobac speaks a universal language. Mild,
cool, sweet, it gives an extra-mural course
in the fine and pleasant art of Pipe Smoking. Any student who tries it will graduate
‘‘cum laude’’.

Picobac

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

 

 

 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”
THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone B-6881

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9754 |

We Cater to Collegiana

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP
Four Experienced Barbers (

Quality Shoes Cee EA a cEN ft

For Fall...

Now is the time to Buy
Boots and Shoes for . o

Men and Women.

Wallace Bros.

Limited

415 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. S.

 

a a

ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Y.M.C. A. Building -— B-7538
381 Baarrington Street
31 Spring Garden Road — B-6440
We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Werk

 

 

 

 

Covered with
Neilson’s smooth
French-style Chocolate

9 :
ARR GE 3

‘

   

 
