 
 

  

  
  

War Effort.

"Dalhousie girls have often been
for not doing any war
work but this criticism is entirely
unfounded, Other universities have
_ their Red Cross Corps and thus get
- all the publicity they could wish for.
At Dalhousie, situated as it is in one
5 of the busiest and most important
_ heities of wartime Canada, all available facilities have been taken over
by the government for training
men. Under such circumstances it
is impossible for the girls to have
| an organized corps. Each girl in the
Th University is, however, doing her
share of war work.
Twe classes in Home Nursing have
beem organized and weekly lectures
are held at Shirreff Hall. Now, both

be
b

also been given on how to handle
bombs and a movie of the London
bite has been shown.

‘Many times calls have come
through for extra workers at the
hee and not once has Delta
Gamma failed to respond. Most of
the city girls do regular canteen
¥ and a list of the out of town
"S m has teen sett to the heed of

nie

as every day for a week
members of Delta Gamma were

itt

 

* dian eaten War Services Library.
Any time new books come in Delta
- Gamma is ready to help.
HY Some of the girls work at the
Central Magazine Exchange and
_ ethers are members of Red Cross
asin or Auxiliary Nursing
if Corps. Everyone of them is a tireless knitter, and mdny pairs of socks
have been turned out for the fight[ ing forces.
. Who said that the Dalhousie girls
_ did no war work?

 

hy One Moment Please

There will be an important meeting of the STUDENT FORUM on
Tuesday, February 23 at 12 o'clock
in the CHEMISTRY THEATRE.
This meeting is of importance to
every Dal student, and a full attend
vq ance is requested,

X

 

Vegetable Corsages for the men
will be on sale at the Sadie Hawkins
‘Dance. So buy your man a corsage,
bolster his ego and help the Com_ munity Chest. :

iy’ | _ Attention all students! Due to the
io “% eed-up” plans for Medicine and
Dentistry students, these students

 

at each registration. Since all coleee ‘facilities are closed in the sum~
Nd ‘no betiefits are received for this
oes extra $10. The question of exemption of Sth and 5th year students

  

  
 

  

  

for discussion at the Student
| Forum to be held next week

y and unfair fee
en fron records” for the
ee and d th rose “Meds”

  
   
 

ensemble of white lace.
a bouquet of deep red tupils.
sister, Anita, who was her only attendant, wore pale blue sheer and
carried yellow narcissi.,

  
 

       
          
     
     
   
 
 
   
   
     
    
 
   
        
       
    
     
   
       
   

om paying this fee will be brought |

      

The
n of all Dal students to see

    
     
    
   
      
 

HAW

“THE COLLEGE

= !
es

Net
= ¥

  
 

 

 

<ptte

7

 

HALIFAX, N. 8., FEBRUARY 19, 1943

KINS

 

TENTATIVE CANDIDATES?

 

Up to this time nominations for president of the Students’ Council in
  

FEBRUARY
AND CUPID

:

One of the prettiest weddings of

   
 

the season took place in St. Paul’s
Church on Tuesday, February the
ninth, when The Ven. Archdeacon
T. W. Savory united in marriage
Miss Xenia Reid to Lieut. Andrew
Fletcher Dunn.

Xenia was charming in a bridal
She carried
Her

Lieut. Hugh
Maclellan was the groomsman.

Following the ceremony a reteption was held at the Lord Nelson
Hotel, after which the bride and
groom left on a short wedding trip.
~The bride was a _ resident of
Shirreff Hall while she was attending Halifax Ladies’ College and Dalhousie University. The groom graduated from Dal in science last
spring. We wish them every happiness.

Of interest to many on the campus
is the recent marriage of Miss Mary
Cole, Montreal, to Joe Cantwell, St.
John’s, Newfoundland, in St. Thomas
Aquinas Church on Thursday, Feb.
the eleventh:~ Since their marriage
Mr. and Mrs. Cantwell have left for
the groom’s home in Newfoundland.
Friends in Halifax wish them all of
the best.

Student Christian

 

Movement To

Hold Serwice

clude (from left to right) Tom Patterson, Bill Hagen and Martin MacDonald, Nominations are not yet definite, but probably one of these will
be your president next year.

 

Dramatics

This season always sees dramatics
to the fore among Dalhousie’s activities and this year is no exception.

For two weeks rehearsals have
been under way for the three-act
play “Fresh Fields” by Ivor Novello,
directed by Mrs. Carl Clark, with a
competent cast consisting of Barbara White, Elaine Hopewell, Kay
Cox, Joan Archibald, Mary Boswell
and Kay Finnamore, with Peter
Donkin, Arthur Hartling and Vincent Allen.

This principal Glee Club presentation of the year will be shown to
the students and to the public on
Friday, February 26, and to all
members of the armed forces who
care to attend on Sunday evening,
February 28. As a special concession to the people who are working
hard to make the production of
“Fresh Fields” a success we ask you
to be in your seats well in advance
of curtain time and warn that the
doors will be closed when the curtain
goes up until the end of the first
act.

The play promises to be a great
success. It is a MUST on every
student's social calendar. Be sure to
include it.

The two remaining plays of the
Connolly Shield Competition will be
presented on Friday, March 5th. On
that evening Professor Bennet will
give his decision of the best one-act
play presented this year. The two
plays will have to be good, for the
standard set by the Pi Beta Phi
play “Spy Me This One” is a high
one.

Delta Gamma will present “Far,
Far Away” by Philip Johnson, under
the direction of Mr. J. L. Robertson.
The Arts and Science play will be
“Coming of Age” directed by John

This Sunday, February 21st, the| Crosby of the CBC.

Day of Prayer for Students will be
observed throughout the world by
the various branchesof the World
Christian Federation. The special
featureof the day at Dalhousie will

be a service of worship at Kings’
College Chapel at 7 p.m. Thiss will

|be a student-conducted service emphasizing intercession for the students of the world, “especially for
all those who are prisoneds of war
or interned or refugees of fighting

   

‘at the front.”

   

       
  
 

can sing are especially urged to
attend. The music will be directed

by Dave Archibald and the new or
gan will encourage singing.
The World Student Christian Federation is an organization composed

of the Student Christian Movements
existing in about all countries. Despite wartime conditions, t has been
able to maintain contact with students throughout the world. Rev.
Robert Mackie, General Secretary o7
the Federation, is well known at Dal| housie, having made two visits here,
|ineluding one last fall.

No. 1

IS ON THE RUN

prmpatinns ER.) SO WATCH OUT MEN

9 &
Students’ Council
. Another year rolls around and with it another dogpatch
Ar e€ Under Way jamboree and a day when the campus is given over to the girls.
Rie tie iuemlok: Mesvout is oak: Sadie Hawkins comes to the fore and now it is the men who
SS nis oe Sy tate ged bated eke will sit by the telephone chewing their nails and wondering if
ese it ay a teal nails they are going to be asked to the party which, we may say,
have been coming in fast and free, promises, as in past years, to be one of the best.

but the ones of most interest seem
to be those for President. The fight
will be contested between Bill Hagen

 

 

Tonight the folks of Dogpatch are invited to come to the
gym at nine o’clock and dance to the musie of Don Low until
twelve-thirty, Remember, too, that it is for a good cause, as
an ENGINEER, and Tom Patterso | all proceeds go to the Community Chest. Since there was no
from MEDICINE, The LAW stu-| dance for the Community Chest in November, as has been the
dents will be behind Miss Johnston | custom, Delta Gamma is determined to make this an extra big
for the seat of Vice-President. mr prerece.
final nominations for the Presidency
and Vice-Presidency, will be settled
sometime during the coming week- |
end.

The nominations that have come in
so far are as follows:

FOR PRESIDENT:
Tom Patterson
Bill Hagen

The committee is economizing in every way it can to
make the profits even larger than last year—so no remarks
about the wrong date on the ticket, please! Tickets are still
available, at $1.25 a couple, from Norie Douglas, Shirreff Hall,
and remember, girls, it is up to you to ask the boy friend.
Everyone in costume, please.

 

 

_ ‘the committee in charge of the dance, under the chairmanship of Mary Boswell, consists of Norie Douglas, Anne Mackley,
Martin MacDonald Susan Morse, Gerry W hyte, Peggy Hyland, Joan Vaughan,

Ruth James, Margaret Morrison and Joan Archibald, so it ought.
FOR VICE-PRESIDENT: |to be good!

Laura MacKenzie | ;
S eteatics $0 veal | iiuse not in costume will, of course, be admitted but will
ie Meena not be eligible for the prizes offered for the best costumes and
Art ‘Titus will miss haif the fun. Boys, you had better beware, for if you
. \uuve not been on your best behavior this past week you will
The Nominations from the Arts miss a good party. You will be called for, fed, and taken home,
and Science Society are as follows: though it is a bit hard on those going with Hall girls, for they
SOPHOMORE REPRES:: will have to find their own way home. The girls will really
then Pidnewy show the other sex how a successful party should be run,—
7 cide Alligon there will be good food, good music, and a good time for all. So

we'll be seeing you in the gym tonight!
JUNIOR REPRES.:

Barbara White Bw

Joan Vaughan

 

   

  
 
  
 

Malcom Mitchell
Carl Little

SENIOR REPRES.:
Jean MacDonald
Susan Morse
Boris Funt
Larry Sutherland

walhousie Institute of

I DP” Public Opinion

DO MEN OR WOMEN CUT MORE
UNIVERSITY CLASSES?

A eross section of the professors of both campuses agree
that MEN are the greatest culprits in this respect, proving
that the girls are more serious about their work, or else that
they work when they work, and play at the right time.

ok

      
    

Music Club Has
Sussessful Meet

The latest meeting of the Dalhousie Music Club took place on
Saturday, Feb. 18 at the home of
Joan Archibald. The programme
consisted of Rimsky — Korsakov’s
Capriccio Espagnol, Franz Schuberts
Symphony No. 8 (Unfinished), the
Ballet and Eubr’Acte Music to
‘Rosamunde,’ and the songs ‘Tru
Grunen, Heidenroslein, Aufenthalt,
and Ave Maria, sung by Elisabeth
Schumann, and the well-known
Marian Anderson, and lastly Johann
Sebastian Bach’s Double Concerto for
Violins.

Short discussions about the composor and his works preceded the
playing of each piece. The pleasant
straight forward, and simple. character of the Bach Concerto as contrasted to his serene Fugues was
quite correctly pointed out by Jim
Campbell. Said he, there was no
reason to be afraid of the classical
qualities of Bach’s music such as his
impersonal and strict conception of
design and logie of structure. The
intermission was filled out by a cosy
fireside sing-song and the serving of
delicious refreshments, Thank were
extended to the hostess at the end
of a successful meeting.

The next meeting will be on Feb.
20, when the club will enjoy the
generous hospitality of Mrs. Carleton Stanley. The first part of the
vrogramme will consist of the Concerto in C Major for Piano and
Orchestra, and the Symphony No. 40
by Mozart. After the intermission,
Lionel Guravich, violin and Harry
Zappler, piano, will contribute their

      
 

  

*

  

at

DO BOYS OR GIRLS MOST OFTEN BREAK THE LAWS
ABOUT WALKING ON FORBIDDEN LAWNS?

Here again it is seen that the female of the University
species has at heart the attractive appearance of the campus.
Tell us that women are more aesthetic than men and we will
tell you that both have eyes with which to see.

» *

4

      
   
     
 

————

   

DO BOYS OR GIRLS MAKE THEMSELVES MORE
OBNOXIOUS IN THE GYM STORE?

Roy’s private opinion was sought on this question. It
was asked by a girl. That was our first mistake. Our invaluable Roy suits his mood to the customer and is always contrary to the way we think he should be. We presume that
what Roy meant when he said that girls were definitely more
obnoxious was that they were merely more noticeable than
the boys. After all, what girl isn’t?

Bg

 
  

    
 
      
    
             

& a *

  
    

DO YOU THINK SADIE HAWKINS’ DAY IS A
GOOD THING? IF NOT, WHY NOT?

A majority of the students of Dalhousie University are
in favor of Sadie Hawkins Day. 63% voted “YES”. Some
were skeptical about the whole thing, and 14% voted “No, it
is not a good thing.” When asked, “Why not?” the answers
were typical of the type: “The woman’s place is in the home.”
“Dames should stick to their own things and let us alone.”
Editor McCleave was in favor of Sadie Hawkins. He said,
“Well, it gives me a rest.”

    
       
   
   
   
      

 

will be the Symphony No. 7 by
Beethoven. The simplicity and
placid pleasantness of many of his
concerts and solo pieces easily appeal to any musical ear.

share to the programme by playing
Strauss’ . Roses from the South,
Beethoven’s Minuet in G., Schuberts
Serenade, and a Mozart Minuet.
The last and major of the evening

     

   
   

   

 

  
  
    
    
     
      
    
       
      
      
     
     
     
     
      
   
     
      
   
    
   
    
     
     
   
  
   
  

 
  
   
      

    
 

      
   
     
        
      
     
     
       
    
        
 

           
         
          
    
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  

ation_ ft) of the Gllege by the Sea

   
  

          
   
       
    
 
  
     

    

»
BY fase Bt “4% we —, Fe 7 |
expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of e
or; it cannct be assumed that they represent the opinion of
me ; McCurdy online Print
-. GAZETTE STAFF S
ae i . . . :
0) we MME Mariela tals a, dda 0) viele wid 6 oe eae bcd aves emia Catharine Finnamore () We endeavor to bring you something new in this eolumn<’
RM fe ey gn os aah ica rind ele as en's A\! just for this week. Following are extracts from Dalhousie
v Gazettes of former years, treating the same problems which we,
ies ue els «4's 9 oes as 0 &o peeeasiecnbiese * But I really like etchings!" now in Dalhousie, are facing. }
Be pag Mrthies Sains alpas Pt ETS a OE EN “Personally | prefer Sweet Caps™ i

Bets chat sae ata eae es Ae siaiw ster siee ja A TWO-FACED JAPAN? th
SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

l nehurian outbreak Japan was looked upon
‘she purest forma in:which lobaceo can be smoked” Prior to this Manchu “ Dp pe

as a high-minded nation in its international relations. In its

numerous post-War dealings with Western nations the Japanese

government conducted itself with scrupulous attention to its
~—~-—~, |honour and the fulfillment of its commitments. Its activities
in the field of international co-operation were praiseworthy. In®
adhering to the Pact of Paris it did so without reservation, a
fact well noted at the time since Japan had a vital ‘Monroe
Doctone’ interest in Manchuria. Now in violation of its pledges
under the Pact and in contradiction to the ideals its spokesman@
have expressed and still do express it appears that Japan is

FARMERS’ MILK
playing the invader in Chinese territory. Can this be Japan,

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up! war breaches Of pence? November ’81.

me 8 en eee ee ee

 
   
  
     
    
 
 
  
         
      

SADIE HAWKINS AND WARTIME

In spite of all the current quips about Sadie Hawkins and|’
__ the other members of her sex, war has brought a change in her
__ personality. She has bigger and better things with which to| (
occupy her mind than the mere catching of a man. The war is | |
_ of as vital importance to her as it is to any man and she is
jlaying an important part in it.
_ Sadie Hawkins is no weakling. Her very existence is not
dependent on man. Hers is a physical, mental and moral | (
strength that is as indescribable as infinity. Her existence is
_ threatened along with everything else in this men’s world, and
she can fight and is fighting for it. But she uses her own
__ weapons—mental fortitude to stand up under the abnormally
great stress and strain that this period in the history of the
world is bringing to all of us.
Nes _ Perhaps mental fortitude is the greatest asset one can have | |
}  _ in this battle for humanity. Women are armed with a plentiful
--—_—- supply of it. hey have the power to impart all that underinding, sympathy, courage and tenacity of purpose that keep
wu all facing torward and looking upward, trying to maintain |
__ a even, steady keel in the midst of turmoil. With men of all
sages ~ managing the war, fighting the ie poem oe to
‘serve in the war, it is left to the women of the world to carry
|} ___ the burden of everyday living,—to do the ordinary things that MacLeod - Balcom

   
     
   

   
    
  
 

   
  

e i
LET NOT OUR PATRIOTISM SUFFER

A few cynical irrational persons “read the loss of Germans
with delight” but the greater portion of the Empire, broadminded and even-thinking, “herald the loss of the Allies with
anguish” and also deplore the woeful waste of human life
whether English, French or German which is the result of this
sudden burst of military “enthusiasm” fostered and nursed
under the. watchful eye of Bismarck and matured and launched
with the aid of Messrs. Krupp in the reign of Wilhelm II.

“Let not our patriotism blind our vision” but let us look to
| the statesmen of England as men who, knowing far more about
the situation than we do, after untiring efforts and with un-*
limited patience endeavored to maintain the peace and failed.
Many of us who are assuming the role of critics would do well
to remember the old adage:

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE “I know,” the braggart fool replies.
WELL, SEE WALLACE” “I do not know,” admits the wise,
THOMAS WALLACE Midway the modern highway lies,
SONS AND DAUGHTERS “I do not know but criticize.”
SIGHT SPECIALISTS November ’14,

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone B-6881

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

fr always must be done in war and in peace. No one can under- LIMITED
O
DRUGGISTS

a

__ * estimate their duty and no one can deny their success in fulcel rete. °
~ filling their duty.
4° | The woman’s place in the war, however, is more than’ a
spiritual one—it is real and practical. She is carrying it out Headquarters for Students
with all the seriousness which it deserves. She is donning a Requirements
- @niform in auxiliaries to all the forces, releasing men fitted for oO
more active service. Her peace-time organizations have taken |
/ © a war-time mantle, and their achievements are not to be be-|| HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
_  Hittled. She has entered the factories where she is doing a|/]| = KENTVILLE, N. S.
: - Man’s work in a man’s way and the government is fully aware
and desirous of her services and her efforts for all-out pro
ae ;
he) xe!

  
 
  

q i

 
 

 

  

duction. eae wie effort to OE a iat Corps should have the supet ‘ ‘ ; ; © Lure 0 3 port and co-operation of all Dalhousie students. The Dominion
a Less serious but equally important is her work in the ser- . : Nea ae ;
| __viee canteens, for, be it serving meals to the men or dancing Precious Stones , After an Show oes oe ae pots Read ioe ‘th reaian eed
swith them, she realizes the value of high morale. Finally, not fae ee ers y teues iclent racine Hates coad
 owi ; Seas ias sani Lei Ms i) deeded of a small permanent force sufficient to garrison the forts and
_ the least among all these, she spends her spare time in knitting dae eh provide a nucleus for the whole military organization of the
_—knitting endless miles of yarn into the vital necessities for PREMICES SF CuNe or... ) ef intaini
behen at rd fichtine f y ‘ They are precious because country. Canada must never go beyond this in maintaining a
paar |e e fighting forces. they conning Theduty ‘to standing army. Militarism as it exists in Europe should have
__ Through all this whirlwind which has been superimposed charm, durability to pre- Before any Meal ) |: Place here. The country’s citizens must be prepared to deon the comparatively well-ordered life of the average woman, serve the beauty and fend their heritage, and our universities should be in the van in
__ her disposition has not been ruffled. She is going along in the rarty to keep it above the Think of ... working out this policy.
/ same even vein at all times. She has never let herself become commonplace. A militia corps would be a direct benefit to the students
___-@xasperated by the endless demands on her. Her determination A visit to Birks will tell enrolled therein. The exercise received in training would, in,
| ~ is a strong thing with her. It is her will to do all that is in her its own story. 7 a measure take the place of gymnastic training in which we are
; ek The so notoriously lacking. The students would feel that they were

pee to bring the world back to normal. It is her aim in life. | j
phe has sacrificed her comfortable private life for the present, Henry Birks & Sons

working to an end, and the benefit from the exercise would be

 

 

 

 

 

     
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   

 

| _ to ensure it in the future in the safe life of a peaceful nation. Limited Green Lantern )|te2ter by being relieved of the monotony of exercise for its
re ‘ fc Registered Jeweller own sake.
i, But the most remarkable thing about a woman is her American Gem Society April 06
jee ability to lose herself in her work during the morning, and dur- ) Barrington St., Halifax, N. S. i
___ ing the afternoon to lose herself in the incomparable charms of | | —a new spring hat!
i“ REFLECTION
; + + The window blossoms scarlet at the end of day,
Dalhousie Uniue r Atty ae pases glass one vivid glaring stain,
ay ! 7 s though the frigid sky had suddenly bled,
Ae A WORD OF WARNING Halifax, Nova Scotia Ae burning, kindled sparks inside the pane
Ri er hs: ; ; o burn in hectic fury with the sk
___»,In this issue of The Gazette we introduce to you the can- Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship. In crimson gold of hot, sewn Ane

Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

 

|  didates for office in the Students’ Council and other campus
} -_—«‘Societies. A word to. the wise is offered to the co-eds of the
ne _ university. Remember that the people you elect this spring
cae rc _ will Serve you next year. Give the subject a bit of considera,

(ea tion and cast your vote wisely

ae ‘The vote of the women of the University is a comparatively
Bh large one. It should be used to the best of your advantage.
Choose the man who will best serve the interests of the Univer
i As God would light the taper of man’s soul
Arts and Science Faculty So sunset lights and floods a window-pane.

K. E. B.
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematies,
Modern Languages and History.

feo) ee .
| sity and the student body. He will represent your interests and Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees DAL OFF HOU
will speak for you while he is in office. 3 of M.A., M.Se. Can Be Very Profitably S i
ae | ' n ery Profitably Spent at th
i ra a) Above all, don’t neglect to vote. It is your right and priv- _ ee rerennt: Pee eam :

Many ale chaps, on exianc ad tows ||| MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

____Hege. Every student with the interests of the University at
. os heart will vote for the man or woman whom he thinks will do

i
.

 

   
   
  
 

 
      
 
 
   
  
  
   

  
   

at

ate Professi Fac

ee ve The onal ulties Students who do not desire a complete course in any of

By be Mie f os in the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

Re eee we b edition. oe Be Biel eed Cia w, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation. The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY

that we paus for | t to pav tribute ta ft Inclusi 4 7.30 to 9.30 iti

ee that we pause tor a moment to pay tribute to Rose Jay Good- nclusive Fees; in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year. Tuition $5 per month
ee , a Sectic . Officer in the Women’s Divisio n of the Woman’s in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING .

of the Royal Canadian Air Force, who - illed
| ho was killed re- will be valuable aid in futuré years.

cently ina plane crash in Alberta. Rose. EAs ore ua See
it Linivorniie¢ ite | as a graduate of this Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

__University and during her college career she took a large part
H in the varied activities of the campus. Delta Gamma cherishes
Rganeer TBOMHOEY S05). | |

* ~e b
otek
‘

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

 

el 4° re Ls
i See aa
i uit U9 %c : | | |
3 re ~ 3 ay, a . ‘ ye . be cil, i ~ A ~~. ~~ = : ii ee = 2: ’ a . 2 2 Sy Ip.

 
| mM en's. week aie

a i if ons a date board kindly remove

  
   
    
     
    
  
 
 
    

; > Me * self from the company of ‘SY |

intellects as we proceed to show how

n, let us” present to you our

jeer: strong skirts show strength.
tle rs AS the first feature of our pro
-\mod adies of the campus and—
____ ¢hildren—our superb, super-strength
An 01 character, mother of nature,
of chimney sweeping, Miss
Hie #5 ‘Elizabeth Marie Kathleen 0’| Si Need we elaborate further
on feminine superiority? Hmmmm,

Ye was afraid of that! 
Day after day co-eds beam their
approval as they note the grace with
which boys acknowledge their su
( periority. Surely you don’t wonder

, this. For what other way can

we interpret the consideration with
ut which they allow US, self-efficient
and self-sufficient females, to open
our own doors, push like the merry

    

 

+). @ld (¢ensored) to get through to|

_ door first, and in all other ways to

fend for ourselves.
What mere man dares to even suggest that he excels in muscular
gth? Why every boy from the

“A” Company down to the “awk
ward” squad has to train hour after

hour to make them strong. But
men,—what training do they need

r Knittin’ for Britain? Why,

| NONE! Women again triumph. Per feetion on display.

We admit that some things do
need a little more intelligence. But
need we, women of the world, worry
about such trivial matters? With
no trouble at all, (well, hardly any)
we juggle our hours and time tables
and turn out excellent minds as well
as excellently balanced date books.

‘How we pity those poor morons
who must wear pantless cuffs—ex
_cuse pliz—cuffless pants. How hard
they take it! We have open-heartedly offered five inches off our skirts,

| but the government didn’t take us
up on it. They feel that we are
al,ready doing our share.

Ladies of the jury, and anyone
else. present,—-We have come to a
unanimous decisionn—WOMEN. ARE
THE SUPREME OF THIS CAMPUs!

. Name any man who could write

wh this and expect everlasting fame.

_ Joo Cant

-__—
oe

 
  
   

YOU'RE SURE TO WIN new
writing pleasure and economy
when you buy Eagle “Chem1Sealed” MIRADO. Stronger
points, smoother writing and
35 miles of line from every lead
are proved by scientific tests
and insured b the above

cate now packed
in every dozen.

AND thet

re) LOSs a
Back

   
  
  
    
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  

le MIRADO wae be
e roves ie
\; Fag pencil you have ever used, :
ve _ «-YAKE ADVANTAGE of this
ffer, Buy Eagle MIR. 2

today, and leara how i.
pencil can

Se each, leas in quantiten

"Will that fugitive ||

,

a bet.”

  

Editor’s Note:

We are happy to show you that
not every issue of the Gazette is entirely dependent on contributions
from the Engineering Department.
But we are also sad to think that
only the engineering department has
enough interest in the welfare of the
Gazette to make a contribution.

* * *
We have it on excellent authority

that a wink gave one lad an invite

to the Sadie Hawkins’ Dance from
our nightingale, Kay.
x * =
The moral is “never make or take
Look at the current PeteNorma-Johnny triangle.
& bd £
More than one lassie is blossoming
out as far as Red is concerned—now
that Jaquie is safely out of the way.
BS ok Eg

Some day when you have lots of
time, ask Lyn to tell you the “Ten

Health Habits”.

*¢ *

Strange how Stu must stay home
and study instead of going to the
prom, while Nickie is perfectly content to strut her stuff on the eve of
the biol quiz.

= % *

A recent (?) quiet wedding turned out to be the cause of grief for
more than a few people. And the
distinction of walking through a wall
instead of the door doesn’t belong to
many.

Bo Real Be

In the spring the sap runs! But
not away from the right things.
Hence many hours that should have
been active ones for one young Med
were spent abed.

, ao + x

The eternal triangle. We wonder
which of two eternal freshmen will
win first place in the affections of
one, Margie.

% oa =

At least Maisie has one less wor
ry. She will never be compelled to

live on the salary of a head-waiter.
Too bad, Johnny. Opportunity

| knocks but once, and all that.

ie ae

A reward of one big nickel is offered to anyone who can supply information on WHO received that
scrumptious big Valentine we caught
“Wiz” buying. Needed Hagen to
help him do it, too.

ee Oe

Do you want your hair shampooed
|for a dime? Only a dime, folks.
(But supply your own shampoo!)

+ oo ie

Ah, spring, spring and Jimmy! A
change is as good as a rest. So
Henry takes a rest and Ruby has a
change.

%* * *

Not least among the Valentines received at the Hall were jewellry,
flowers candy and_ long-distance
calls, Oh, lucky, lucky, girls.

 

Come, First Years, fill the flowing
bowl,

For now the quizz is over;

Tonight’s the night we celebrate,

D.T’s are in clover.

How deliriods we shall be,

Come, Buraglia and Lee,

How about those cases three?

| For we shall not be sober!

In other ways some spend their time,
For Valentine’s approaches.

Ken Rodger searches for a card
To appease Diane’s reproaches.
Now, here’s the gossip of the town—
A Valentine for one of renown—
Dave McD has mown her down,
That fair-haired girl from home!

c These verses have their mystery too;

 

—one Jim Campbell.
‘The question that disturbs us so—

_ | Where did he ramble ?
| More

surprises for the cless—
‘Lloyd ‘Feanny makes a pass,

in hand with that fair lass
Outside ~~ lab!

ey P ‘

 

  

i ; eas

A special feature of the. Sadie
Hawkins Dance at the University of
New Brunswick was the raffling of
a large basket of home-cooked foods,
including a chicken, pies, rolls, pretzels (supply your own beer), and
lots more. This was a venture of the
Freshettes and the whole thing was
carried out by them. The proceeds
went to the Red Cross. The way to
a man’s heart!

e Oe a

At Mount Allison the co-eds forfeited twenty-five cents to the war
fund for each time they were called
and asked out by a man during
Co-ed Week. Needless to say, it
didn’t happen very often.

t * x

At the annual theatre party
which ushered in Co-ed Week at the
University of Western Ontario, an
original Dogpatch skit, written, rehearsed and produced all in one day,
was presented to the movie-going
college students. The skit included
such familiar figures as Marryin’
Sam, Abijah Gooch, and, of course,
Sadie Hawkins. When interviewed
after the show, Sadie said, “If you
liked our Theatre Party, thank the
Gazette; if you don’t like it, don’t
blame anyone, because you would
have paid 40¢ for the show anyway.”

t =>

At the University of Saskatchewan

own conclusions.

Joe College
vs.

Johnny Jeep

Ladies and -?—Today you shall
witness the best fight of the century.
In this corner we have 349 4/9
pounds of navy all in one man, John
Jeep, u striking figure, waiting to
; : contest for the most sought after
Ladies’ Night took the form of a title of the year, “top men of the
barn dance. For decoration, wagons pT ae Si a a ai Town

d th ij campus”.
Moet aera eet pump*1N8,| comer we see our tower of strength
sheaves of grain and the like.

. And Joe College 109 9/10 pounds of manto complete the picture, apple cider

was served, — just to keep in the
mood.

= + %

eds published their fifth annual
co-ed edition, only this year they
made it their first venture at a sixpage issue.

Ed. Note—Let us hope that Dal

Great was the co-ed’s delight on
going “up the hill” at the University
of New Brunswick on Monday, the
first day of Co-ed Week, and seeing
in one of the front windows of the|girls will attempt the same not too
Beaverbrook Residence, a sign bear-| many years from now.)
ing the words, “Gather ye Rose- eet «
buds”. Apparently there were some
skeptical souls in the men’s residence, though. In a window directly

above was another sign, “Not Us!”
* % *

 

We draw to your attention the
absence of the hackneyed “moron”
jokes in this column. Only a moron
could appreciate them. This issue

At McMaster University the Co-|of the Gazette is not for morons.

 

THE NATIONAL FISH CoO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS |
|
|

| CAPITOL

Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

Red Skelton

in

Whistling in Dixie
*

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

 

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

;

) HALIFAX Nova Scotia )

;

Thursday, Friday and Saturday

ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

“BOSTON BLACKIE GOES
HOLLYWOOD”

You Were Never

Lovelier

Fred Astaire

“PRIVATE GUN SMOKE”
* |
Thursday, Friday and Saturday

“ISLE OF MISSING MEN”
“JESSE JAMES JR.”

GARRICK

Saturday, Monday and Tuesday

“TIME TO KILL”
Lionel Nolan - Heather Angel

 

Rita Hayworth

 

 

 

AD

CASINO
*

Wednesday, Thursday and Friday

“THE GREAT GILDERSLEEVE

with
Harold Peary
“THE MAN IN THE TRUNK”

| OXFORD
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

“NOW VOYAGER”
Bette Davis
Thursday,, Friday and Saturday
“ROAD TO MOROCCO”
Bing Crosby | ob Hope
“SABOTAGE SQUAD”

Starting Saturday, February 20th

When Johnny
Comes

Marching Home

 

  

  
    
      

Allan Jones
Gloria Jean

    

,

 
 

Spitalny All Girl Orchestra

      
  

re Intin fonate Glimpse of College lik No. 12,

  
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

THE BRUTES
We haven’t decided whether these two hurly-burlies have attacked
this girl with intent to do her harm, or whether she likes it.

 

 

  

pi a nee HF on .
Oye the girls o1 on 1 the campus has wean
(and not such gruesome ones) ‘not ™ }
just legs. Score—Navy is down but _
not out—yet. 4
ROUND Ill — How the judges
shudder at the thought of having to
study on every night but Wednesday
and Saturday. But wait, C.0.T.C.? ,
But that only takes two evenings |
and then only until 9.30. Now they ;
know what side their bread is but- tered on.
1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10: Navy is out!
So the moral of the story as you
can plainly see. =

    

  
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   

  

Bong, bong, bong, bong
Bong, bong, bong, bong
Bong, bong, bong, bong
Midnight, by golly!

      
     

  

      
  

  

For Sporting
Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

Call on

YY.
°eIANOS - CHURCH ORGANS

SHEET MUSIC - RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

   

    
  
    
   

     

Draw your |

    
 

  

hood. Four co-eds, chosen for their
aptitude in figures, don their judges
gowns and settle comfortably to decide a long hard fight. At least the
contestants can be assured that the
judges are unbiased. Soon all is
quiet and with a wave of lipstick
the fight is on.

     
  
 
 

ROUND 1—Every nice girl loves a
sailor, and our campus coeds are no
exception. And the uniform does
help a lot. How can poor Joe compete against that row of buttons?

  

THE

FLOWER SHOP

      
 

Navy uniform vs. college football 37 BLOWERS STREET
tiger suit. Score—a slight leaning HALIFAX
towards the navy. Phone B-7133

  

ROUND II — Feather cuts and
windblown bobs are quite the fashion. Baggy Sweaters and sloppy

 

) Eat at...

shoes also come in for their share EVANGELINE
of co-ed approval. Who laughs at TEA ROOM

hes ?
our hairdos and our ae me Joe 56% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
does every time. But at least he B-9571

NAV Y—Please note that

ia Saméthing:

notices it.

 

 

 

“Yes siree...

“ice-cold Coca-Cola is more than thirstquenching. Yes siree. It’s refreshing. There’s
an art in its making. There’s know-how in its
production. The only thing like Coca-Cola is

Coca-Cola itself. Nobody else can duplicate it.”

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

DALHOUSIANS ...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES

KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON ROTEL

}

Si ace l Se, ea se aida. ian -5

 
   
    
   

   

:

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Ta © Prominent Parts in Sports

BADMINTON NIGHT AT GYM

+) gi
eee ty:
y A #5
ee

ie iy

‘PHYLLIS WRAY BARRATT

   
   
   
   
   
   

 
 
  
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
    

_ “Jo pull your weight in the preset it day struggle for Victory — you
_ should ‘be healthy and full of energy. .
- You must not only do your own job!
3 ell, but you must avoid using the
precious time and energy of techni-. eal personnel in all fields. doctore
) teachers, etc. Cold=, minor ilies:  Iack of sleep. hod eating habits >
; h ex Pr cise, all add up to a heavy drain
on our resources.
_ ‘That's why its good to see the
_ standard of health of the women

7 .

of Dalhousie at a high level this

¥
a’

year.” Quality and style to suit the high

reuirements of the students of
Dalhousie will be found at the :
largest Furriers in the East.

te
ve

 

ye }

of i

a who knows not and knows not =.
that he knows not ‘ | re R ‘

bh Is a fool; shun him. . e , we ie gree

| He who knows not and knows that SS |
she knows not 3

Is a child; lead him.

_ He who knows and knows not that

he knows

Ts asleep; awaken him.

_ He who knows and knows that he

a ; knows

pa ie wise; follow him..

:
»

 

3 =

rT

  

i
f

as

ras

*

<==

ar
x

i= =.

MARITIME FURRIERS LIMITED
SACKVILLE STREET, HALIFAX

 

 

Your Gazette potographer caught these four freshettes as they were preparing for a game of badmin
ii Gossip Invitation: : ton last Monday night at the Gym. Reading from left to right they are: Joan MacInnes, Anne Saunderson,
Pull up a back fence and lean over.’ p21 Hollis and Renee Garratt.

 

 

=

s DIANA SWEETS ROSEDALE NURSERIES |
Y. M.C. ing = BTEA ROOM C.A. Building - B-7580
381 Baarrington Street
379 SPRING GARDEN ROAD (| )*! Spring Garden Road - B-6448
B-9754 We Specialize in CORSAGES
We Cater to Collegians and All Kinds of Design Work

‘

ouewws yA

SPORT -O-SCOPE

4 by ANNE MACKLEY
eS

1

   

    
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
 
   
    
 
   
       
     
  
 
   

UNAS OETAIE TA

mG Are you over weight? Do you have trouble holding your
men? Do you lie awake night after night? Try Barratt Body
| Building for Buxom Beauties.

 

 

 

Wa
y

MAPLE LEAF DAIRY

A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.
Phone L. 2357
MILK —- CREAM -— BLEND - BUTTERMILK

 

____- FOR SALE—To all girls at Dal—free of charge. A good
time on Thursday from 5.30 to 7.09, Come and enjoy a fast
_ game of basketball. Support your elubs and be healthier and
happier from loss of that excess weicht. Also free—a delicious
meal at Roy’s, guaranteed to have 2 low caloryv content. Take
advantage of this great opportunity that is the first of its kind

AVAILABLE FOR USE—One brand new ping-pong tackle.
Found any hour of the day or nirht in Mrs. Barratt’s office
Show the fellows that President Mackley’s struggle with the
Students’ Council was not in vain. We appreciate a rood thine
when we have it.

FRESHETTES !—Can you use the archery ecuipment thet
the upper classmen have scorned this year? Taken in freauent
doses, it promises to give results.

COULD YOU USE A GOLD “D”?—Badminton is a new

 

YOUR SUIT COATS AND DRESSES

Look Newer

 

 

Last Longer

 

   

  

‘ Lak HORIZONTAL HORIZONTAL (Cont.); VERTICAL (Cont.
major sport. Play it with a purpose. 1—River in France 52—Dry ode ner country rer
: 6-Reli bbr. 19-Full of moist
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN—Fellows = vou afraid to schedbinttine an uA pau 20-Incite neo
in tunics last year. Can masculine vanity permit you to don a 12-Bulwark S7-Salt (Latin) 24-Part of verb ‘Te be
a. * * : + eco
skirt before your admiring public, and hold your own against ie.Fanicue terse, ok, oa Aree
__uson the basketball floor. (a REGULARLY
f FOR SALE—Tickets for the Munro Day Banquet—only ; 20-Corn-spike : 64-Traders 36-Owner of a
: , ait : n nd a track! 56-A if lantati : ; Di
limited number. Get er wong It le Pe aT 23-Paid notles mater cael Ki a7-Posscesed There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,
afford to miss. It will make your Munro Vay complete. gate 67-Venerate 38-Precious stone to keep them feeling soft and fresh, to maintain
t . ; rs .
, LOST, STRAYED, OR STOLEN—135 girls who should be] — 27-Canadian province VERTICAL» |at_Nolee shapely, slylish lines. A good wartime practice
out on D.G.A.C. night Tuesday—to make use of the precious (abbr.) Hsland in tae 42-Mends is: Buy fewer clothes—send what you have to
* . ; 28-C r
time the girls were so generously allotted by your committee. 28 abel 7 Dtsacuhtay ok Minos |45_Affirmative reply Cousins often.
~G 3—Recli 7-Mi f fi
| LOST—Some time since the “Moose” departed, that soneee $2-Universa light 4Used in negation : a aries a¥
spirit that Dal, at one time almost exhibited. Finders please Aged 5-The (Sp.) 49-Actor’s part @
return in form of support on Saturday nights or Sundays at ap Vers a nO Rae Belek of hai
wer the basketball games. $9-Terminate 8-Navigate 55—Plant of the arum LIMITED
lant : f 43—Jump 9—Journeys to carry family
St eee Peseeteally toy  Taton Co. Shield for! Arminary cosisant [rowers ———_|aecealittade (athe) CLEANERS LAUNDERERS DYERS. STORAGE
' the club who can offer the best showing of sportsmanship. eae ae Se ae och Mee
ul . ATTENTION! Wanted by Helen Ma eKay’s Golds, Laura 48-Venture : 14-At a distance 63-That i(Latin abbr.)
. . B—-So''*h American 65-A degree (abbr.
_ MacKenzie’s Reds or Sue Morse’s Blacks some well or partly aie i \ , |
_ done athletes to compete for the above shield. When we asked the question, “Do you want a crossword |
BX TO LET—One gym floor, practically any time of day and puzzle in your co-ed edition?” the answer was an overwhelming STUDENTS!
__ on Monday and Tuesday nights. Please apply by appearing at affirmative. The ayes have it. NORMAN’S CAF
m Di pe er use the equipment found in Red’s office. This | F E.
he’ , CALs ef
is the chance of a lifetime! HOLLIS STREET B-9575

GIRLS—Did you know that Monday night is open night at
the gym? What’s the difference if a few rackets are broken | ay 7
or a few back stiff if we all get acquainted? We guarantee that
Dal boy isn’t such a dope and the girl next to you in English II — chw I
_ has something after all. This offer is guaranteed or your money ily 4
FT RY aA

F;

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. Cunard & Co., Ltd.

HARD COAL ~— SOFT COAL
COKE. — FUEL OIL

*

| back if after three successive applications on Monday night, you
| don’t get complete satisfaction.

 

    
  
  
  

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking
Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.
Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

22 GRANVILLE STREET
24 Hour Service

COLLEGE STUDENTS WELCOME Haas, Bay

 

 
