" ET ae
, 2 B= Ba as
‘ oy yu VE AS : |
“ a i #
oes Laer ae ' f
fea h , 4 gt?
t A if it ie *
y f aes ‘ * :
4 = =i Ay
‘ a, ;
f aT bs Psp: ‘
. eet” j
=
5 7 °
f
;

—_

4
i

’ }

.
we.

»

 

;?

\

a

*

 

   

VOL. LXXV

 

.

aii Ot Oe i i art hs ay AY le ieee Le CPT re Ue ‘7 fel we
, 7 '

 

 

ie Gazette Elects Man-of-the-Yea

 

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 19, 19438

| Naval Training Division

 

  

. .. WALEQUE

Editorial

This, the last issue of the
“Gazette” for the year, marks
the end of normal student activities for the term. From now
on, students will be giving increasing thought to the problem of examinations, and after
that will come the parting of
the ways. Some of us will be
going off to the wars, others
will be looking for jobs in war
industries Where they can utilize the training they have received at Dalhousie, and still
others will be making plans
for finishing their university
courses next year.

114

Whatever may happen to
each one of us, we have a common task and responsibility
that is ours to fulfill towards
making this a world a place fit
for men and women to live in,
a world free from wars, from
hunger, from slums, from disease, from want and suffering
in every form in which it may
appear.

Any student who hesitates
to throw himself into this
struggle, who tries to lead a
life apart from this struggle,
has wasted his own time, his
professors’ time, and the whole
community’s time in coming to
college.

University training is not a
right, it is a privilege, and carries with it duties and responsibilities. Therefore, when we
leave university, we must not
try to withdraw from the world
we are honour-bound to man
the ramparts of the new world
shoulder to shoulder with the
young men and women from
the factories, the farms and the
armed forces. ;

17%

Our generation does not face
an easy task. It has been reared in a period of depression,
when thousands of our fathers
found themselves on the relief
lines, vainly looking for jobs
that would guarantee them the
barest necessities to provide for
their families. We have seen
thousands of our brothers and
school chums setting out into a
world which did not need them,
did not want them. We have
seen want, suffering and hunger amidst a world of seeming
plenty, and finally, we are now
called on to give up our youth,
and if need be, our lives, to
crush a menace that is more
hateful than death itself.

When peace comes to the
world again, it will be up to us
to decide whether we are going
to return to the mess which we
inherited from our fathers, or
whether we are going to set out
and consciously build a world
of peace and security. It depends on our generation whether or not the day will come
when “men shall learn to think
rather than to accept, to enjoy the flowing temporal rather
than hope for the eternal
static.”

   

THE GAZETTE STAFF

 

Dalhousie Gazette
Planned For.

——-- = 9%

SR

 

- oo

The blinds are up, the windows are open, and the Staff of @——-——

your favourite college paper emerges from the den deep down
in the bowels of the Arts building, where it has laboured most
of the year to bring you its annual output of twenty issues.
Gazette work this year has been fun, was the comment of one
curly-headed rascal who came peeping out, brushing the moss
off his coat, and blinking at the sun. And eventful, too, reminded the Editor-in-chief, recalling the alleged “phonography
case” (settled quietly with the amicable misunderstanding
of all).

“seriously, though, the members of the Gazette Staff have
laboured long and hard under the benign and beneficent direction of Editor-in-Chief Bob McCleave. Ted Shields, Managing
Director, acted as News Editor until the Spring semester, at
which time Peter Donkin, who had been Editor of the Feature
Page from the fourth issue on, took over the job of making up
the front page.

Eugene Merry, who had added charm and honor to the
proceedings by his mere presence (to say nothing of his “Campus Clippings’), was with us until Christmas, when “pressure
of studies” forced him to discontinue his association with the
paper.

Boris Funt consistently throughout the year provided us
with a thought-provoking DIPO, and was responsible for its
enviable position as the Gazette’s most prominent feature
article. Laurie Allison joined us half-way through this semester, and Eileen Phinney was responsible for upholding the
woman’s viewpoint in nearly every issue.

Webster MacDonald and Edmund Morris, in their respective positions of Business Manager and Sports Editor, continued to provide the Gazette with the help and consideration
that made their services invaluable in the past.

 

 

Mushkat Memorial Essay Prize
Any student registered for three

Recaise af eiv insufficient number | 9" more classes in the Faculty of
of applications being filed for the|**t and Science may submit an
position of University Store Man- | &584Y in competition for this prize,
ager under the previous notice, ap- the value of which is $40.00.
plications will again be received till; The subject chosen for the first
April 15th, 198. Any student, male| essay is: “Tolerance: A Necessary
or female, may apply. Salary is|Part of the Political Structure”.
$200 per annum. Essays should be of 4,000 to 6,000
words. They are to be left in the
President’s office not later than
April 20th.

One Moment Please

Dalhousie University Store

Arts and Science Society will have
their “Pharos” picture taken Tuesday noon on the library steps.
Everybody out.

 

Musie Club at 8 o’clock Saturday
night, 59 Coburg Road. See article
elsewhere,

Correction, please. For Dr. Malcolm Smith, read Dr, Mike Smith
in last week’s issue.

 

DEBATING TEAMS T

 

AKE DOUBLE

DEFEAT FROM M.S.B., MT. A.

Mount Saint Bernard Debating
Society defeated Sodales on Monday
evening at last debate of the year
held here at Studley Campus. The
subject for discussion was, resolved
that voluntary helath services are
more in keeping with a democratic
community than compulsory health
insurance. Speakers for Mt. St.
Bernard, were Misses Rose Nearing
and Mary MacLellan, who upheld the
affirmative, while Dalhousie’s representatives were Misses Theresa
Monaghan and Margaret Farquhar,
defending the negative. The three
judges for the evening, Mrs. Elizabeth Callan Brenton, Mr. Hickie and
Alderman Lloyd, put their collective
heads together and reaped their decision in favour of the Mount.

Backing up their firm convictions
were the reasons given by the judges
for their decision: first, that the
presentation of the girls of the affirmative was excellent; secondly, that
they spoke with such conviction and
ease. But they then informed the
audience that the Dalhousie team
had the better material but did not
have their presentation down to the
degree of perfection that the girls
from the Mount had. However, the
losers are to be congratulated on
their defence, and Sodales extends
to The Mount Saint Bernard team
their hearty congratulations.

Dal also lost another debate last
week, and we don’t wonder, in view
of the number in attendance. Subject—Resolved that universal education has been a failure. Mt. Allison
Debating society took the affirmative
and also took us with it. Speakers
for Mt. A. were Mr. Inch and Mr.
DuMarche, and the speakers for
Sodales were Miss Margaret Hyland
and Mr. Kevin Barry.

Arts and Science
Hold Meeting

At a mass meeting of the influential Arts and Science Society held
in the auditorium of Room 3, officers
|of that popular organization were
elected for the coming year. After
the usual constitutional confusion
had abated, nominations for the leadership started to pour in. It proved
a painful procedure, mainly because
people were unaware of what class
they were in, while others expressed
doubts as to whether or not they
would actually graduate in the year
alloted to them by the arbitrary will
of the majority. One intellectual
suggested that the solution to the
problem would be to wait until graduation lists were actually posted. It
was deemed advisable, however, to

will contain ...

4.

®. C.0.T.C, and U.A.T.C.
6.

want to keep

Year Book staff.

 

See story
page three

 

 

No. 20

a? ee

Announcement To
Be Made Shortly By
President Stanley

Dalhousie University may
have sailors training among it’s
students next year. The possibility of having a Naval
Training Division is now being
discussed with Dr. Stanley,
president of the University.
He announced however, that a
decision should be reached
within the next two weeks.

 

This new unit will be known as

the University Naval Training DiviSion, or in short, the U.N.T.D.° The

boys will complete their required
training on the campus and at the
local naval training barracks, and
their course will include such sub
jects as squad and rifle drill, initial
seamanship, signals and elementary

pilotage and navigation. During the
summer months they will go to H.
M.C.S. Cornwallis for two weeks of
advanced training.
If It Came

The call for active service will be
delayed for members of the U.N.T.D.
while they are attending university,
unless the national
demand otherwise.

According to Naval Minister Macdonald, this new service was created
for two main reasons; first, that students may serve while they are still
attending the university.

LO

exigency is

Secondly,
the Navy needs as many men of
high calibre as they can obtain, for
positions as petty officers and commissioned officers, in all branches of
naval work throughout the world.
. +. It Might Stay

This new institution is not only a
wartime measure, but the higher au| thorities hope that after the war,
this braneh of the service will still
|continue to be a constitution of the
University. In this way students
wishing to enter the Navy would be
able to train in their spare time.

Thus next year we will probably
see three branches the
here at Dalhousie; the O.T.C. (army)
the U.T.T.C. (airforce), and the new
U.N.T.D. (navy).

of services

 

have officers for next year, although
the suggestion was universally acclaimed as profound.

Miss Jean MacDonald, having
agreed to belong to the class of 44
was elected President, and Drummond Fraser became First VicePresident. The post of Treasurer fell
to Margaret MacPherson by acclamation, although at press time s
had. not yet decided whether she
could become reconciled to being in
the class of ’°46. Besides these officers, the Arts and Science decided to

(Continued on page six)

YOUR 1943 PHAROS

1. Photos of this year’s graduates as usual
2. The latest photos of the campus buildings
3. An attractive sports section on tinted
More candid shots than ever before

(including revealing shots released for the first time)

paper

pictures

Football, basketball, and other team pictures
(including action shots of the crucial games)

7. A summary of the year’s activities at Dalhousie

8. Dozens of other features, photos, that you you’ll

WHICH ARE YOU GOING TO BE?

One of the lucky 250 who get a copy of this attractive
memento of college days?

Or one of the unlucky ones who will be going around
next year moaning because they spent the $2.50 on
shows they really didn’t want to see anyway ?

We'd advise you to give the money while you have it to
your faculty representatives, or to a member of the

 
ie:

i PPeAAe BR OA

A VWHFRs#ia, F 4 ae (oe
. al ict “ ews bd
a ae d way ae) a 4 -_ sy ;

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
    
       
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
  
      
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
     
  
   

ication — Pom of the @llede y the Sea
Ets cons amram S528 Wii ni - aay ie 0 at Wi 7s ean t
f >. : - J t f

9—“The Oldest College Paper in America”
in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
be assumed that they represent the opinion of

DRDO a cosa os cele ves cCTOnae + hacer se EE OU McCleave
Rt ta sig &:cin vu. 0.0.s'0.0 5 ¢ d-necie a aise WRUMCOL Macdonald
Or | la ee eee ee ew ee eee seaew nd CkeG Shields
cone aR ee Laurie Allison, Peter Donkin
erat d. acle wan no a cae t Coes dee vs be caoe Morris
r ae ane dlc ge bidte di ccesnin bce a «REE WEO Coldwell
xchange. . wots ae ee Sie giherardl Sack he eae aco LPUE ae Allison
Editor OE he UN, ce niba we dick ob cL ODONG Oland
agel Pee a hie MES bia.g G's pialpte wes Eileen Phinney
Pes Steith sc ccidlins ccc) é een cs ce Gee b) he gORES Funt
= lease “J Sais Sais «Bd 6 aah kemne s hv cso on.p SOURGEN Phinney
f: Boris Funt, Joyce Harvey, Kay Cox, Jamés Camp
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  

   

 

 
  
 
 

Lawrence, Elaine Hopewell, Aneeta Goodman. —

<<

SUGGESTIONS ;
Why doésn’t this University follow the practice of other
and have a complete list of coming events posted
ispicuous spot with a member oi the Students’ Counfter it? im recent days we have seen the trightenacle of very few students out to Friday night Glee
shows, while Pine Hill functions took the pick of the
ition. And one of these nights also featured a debate
didn’t help the cause of unity anyway. This is quite a
a problem, as there seems to be very few available
y a lot of functions, but surely better planning could

Why don’t they adopt a more sensible policy towards
ng. You have here the toughest courses in Medicine, or
they are at the very beginning of the career when the
mwork is to laid, and with labs, classes and long hours
ht work comes compulsory training. Christmas examina
ertainly indicate a change was needed. Basically it lies
1 the Government — surely they can see that this course
all is not an escape-hole for draft dodgers, and that the

face of courses with military training does not have to
duty’ of this faculty. The men enter the R.C. A. M.C. in
» third year, so why not at the beginning of the course?

w Students’ Council, ‘‘to make an honor roll of all former
isie students who have enrolled in the services of their
ry.’ We emphasize this suggestion. That would put a
rop of blood in that semi-mythical animal browsing on the
s—college spirit. lt would also make former Dalhousie
ts realize their Alma Mater ‘was solidly behind them in

A r ee eee |

If, by your sergeant, your wife

You’re sent to the doghouse
to grieve for your sin,
Don’t prove you belong there
by growling and whining!
. « . And THAT’S where a
Sweet Cap fits in!

 

CAPORAL
CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

 

 

FARMERS’ MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!
t and second years of Medicine with regard to military |.

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 

 

. “The time is now” emphatically declared a member of | *

MacLeod - Balcom EVANGELINE

TEA ROOM

       

A.
\ .

. s. 4
Ys ;

Molly hurried along the street
heedless of the water which her flying feét splashed on her stockings.
“Oh, dear, I’m dreadfully late. And
I’m going to that St. Patrick’s Day
dance at Jean’s hotse. I suppose
I'd better wear my light green
dress,”

The day had been springlike, the
sooty masses of snow were slowly
melting and rivulets ran down the
sidewalks and streets, children played with marbles in the mud, bare
bits of the lawn were showing green
the buds were swelling, and the
eaves dripped. It was a Nova Scotian
spring—it had rained yesterday and
it would snow tomorrow. Today the
bright sun and the cool air promised
summer,

“Jean simply insisted that I come
to her party though I don’t really
want to when Don left for Ottawa
on business so suddenly. But Jean
asked and I would put myself out
for her. We've been friends for a
long time. Parties never seem worthwhile without Don. Jean’s invited a
dozen airmen to her party and she
hasn’t enough girls. And I do want
to meet Mr. Smith — the famous
journalist who has just been in England. He’s some relation of her
mother’s or he would never have
come to Jean’s party. Well, goodby,
Nan, I'll see you tomorrow.”

Ss
x, 5 Wed
Pee eae

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
    

LEN

_

  
 

  
 

‘ae

A PARTY

A SHORT STORY

going to parties.” “I’d like to dance
with you forever” he said regretfully as a brother airman claimed
her.

“T wonder if Mr, Smith is coming”
thought Molly. “It'll be wonderful
to meet a man who has really seen
the war and not to talk to boys away
from home for the first time who
haven’t seen the war yet. Boys like
Jack and his friends are nice but
they’ve never seen anything.” Then
she saw Jean clinging to the arm
of a middle-aged, handsome, dapper
man and proudly introducing him to
her guests. Molly joined the fringe
of the group clustered around Mr.
Smith and listened to the words of
the great man. “Of course I flew to
England, but the trip back by sea
was horrible. We were almost torpedoed. Of course everyone was
calm, the sailors didn’t seem to mind
at all. Yes, the people of Britain
are ‘marvellous — really marvellous.
Their morale is wonderful, they take
the most awful raids—Oh yes, the
damage is terrible .. . That music
is lovely, would you care to dance
with me, Miss Jean?”

Molly enviously looked at Jean
dancing with Mr. Smith. She snapped at Jack’s innocent attempts at
conversation. Then she felt sorry
because of his of hurt bewilderment.
“I’m sorry, I was thinking of some
 

 

x

  
   
  
 
  
  

thing else’, she apologized. Would

   
     
   

a rete way. DRUGGISTS ane : AS aoe diya me ae of pe you like to go downstairs and play
ene ee ) | } ; mere : ; rown hous e
_ 4. This cousin to Number 1. Why doesn’t someone with Headquarters for er Pay) _ THE eat tee ilies ies some Ree:
a . hour or hour spare a week to do something about the en FLOWER SHOP of flaming orange, pale yellow, rose} During a game of billiards they
etin boards for the students? The pay is a reasonable $25 Oo

     

and blue behind the purple hills. | talked about flying. “Are you a
pilot?” Molly queried. “Yep.” “Do

37 BLOWERS STREET

_ Plenty of typewriters around to put in use, and there HALIFAX

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR

one anyway for the job. The University powers might also
a little checking up on their builetins. They are nicely
ad, it is true, but apparently are not taken down quite on

  
   
 
 
  
 
    
  
   

AND S80, GOODBYE!

___. This is the last time this editor and many of his staff will

write for the Gazette. Students’ Council will choose a new
or at its next meeting, within two weeks’ time. The choice
be publicized in the local papers.

LAS eae
_____ It has not been an easy year; but it has been enjoyable.

KENTVILLE, N. 8S. Phone B-7133

 

  

AN OLD SAYING

REVERSED BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

We have heard of “starvation in the midst of
With Birks’
sterling, it is different.

The full golden moon looked down
from the deep azure sky on the luminous water, the quiet ships and their
dark shadows, the sloping hills, the
dark huddled houses and shops and
theatres, bare trees and lawns and
people, asleep or awake—on everything that makes a busy seaport
town on a spring night.

“Oh, Molly, I’m so glad you came”
sald Jean. “How are you, Dick,” to
Molly’s brother—“Did you hear from

you like flying, I’ve never been up.”
“I love it” replied Jack, “it gives
me a sense of power. But I’ve got
a job to do when I’m flying a plane,
not just cruising around. I’d like
to take you up sometime, but I won’t
be here very long. Would you like
some supper now ?”

“I’m glad you met Jack Sanderson,” said Dick to Molly as he drove
her home. “He’s a nice boy. A bit
of a hero, too—he got a D.F.C. in

   
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
        
    
 

1ave learned alot. In the small democracy of a newspaper Other materials may be O Don? Mother got a note yesterday.|the Battle of Britain, and was shot

   
 
 
   
 

 
  
    
 
     
      
   

e we have found by trial and error that democracy lives scarce, but Birks’ sterl- Go right up and take off your wrap.| down. To hear him talk you’d never

in its relationship with other unities. We have had the ing is obtainable—more The boys from the RCAF. are|know he ever saw a German plane. |
fe of much criticism: why run O.T.C. stories, why run too highly prized that ever. a oo ve ee dancing.” | He’s on his way out. West to be an
ah ee . ee 4 . “yg * 2 » ‘ ean revurne 0 e large rooms i ”
ch of this column, why not write on international affairs? DALHOUSIE STUDENTS = Instructor. That Smith fellow now, 
We have tried our best. The first policy of the paper an- Henry Birks & Sons

—_

crowded with chattering pe@ple.| continued Dick disregarding Molly’s
nounced by this writer at the Frosh meeting last September Limited

Molly caught. a confused impression | startled gasp, “he isn’t half as fam
WELCOME

mcead Dy th rai of green and white decorations, a} oys as he lets on—I never heard of

s to bring in an entirely new staff, composed mostly of new- Registered Jeweller guusld crorchodtta, ahd a, eroud, ofli< «304 aa Pe
yg eet. if a od dies ant ae Society ory group hi muntil Jean started talking about .
ers to the University. we have been successful, it is to American Ge young men in airforce blue. “Molly,| him—those boys in the airforce are |

  

credit ; if we have been mediocre, next year they will be|4 Barrington St. Halifax, N. S.

SS —> > ~—S = —> SS —>

I haven’t seen you for ages. You) the real heroes.”
know Ted don’t you? You’re working for the government now? Did| “! suppose I deserved that,” said *
you know Dolly is married? Why, Molly ruefully. “I wasn’t very nice

yes, Dick, I’d love to dance.” Molly to Jack. I ought to be nice to everyand Ted started to dance. Then an-|°¢ no matter who I think they are.
other friend came up—and a tall|47d do you know, Dick, she said
boy with blue eyes and sandy hair reflectively, “Jean told me that al
in an airforce uniform. His name| the time she was dancing with Mr.
was Jack Sanderson. “Where do you| 5™ith he kept telling her what Lady
live,” began Jack, “ond what do you S—said about how well he danced!”

do with yourself when you’re not —P.R.B.

_ Another one of our policies has been the shuttling of editors
: k on different pages to give them a new lease on life, and perhaps
val ette: break for the reader. This is a policy used successfully by
_ “Time” magazine. Peter Donkin and E. J. Shields became News and
Feature | Hears respectively undér this scheme, interchanging pages.
The Editor took a turn at the back page, and front page of the “Zei
_ tung” during Christmas holidays.

We would like to thank Dr. Stanley at this time for the

lenient manner with which our first term offenses were dealt
with. It is much more to be praised when regarded in the light
of the hasty and unqualified action of the McGill Senate in
hutting off publication of the McGill Daily while an invéstigawas made, We have the opinion that university leaders
ould follow the wise example of the President of U.N.B., who
sistently reads his students’ publication, and keeps up with
_____We would also like to thank Miss Henry for invaluable assistance
_ in obtaining several important stories; Dr. D.C. Harvey, who “joined”
1 staff to help us on Dr. Stanley’s CBC address; Prof. Bennet and
the front office for releases; Dr. Holland, for notices. To The Halifax
derald for several cuts and mats, and to The Halifax Chronicle for

Dalhousie Untuersity
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

  

 

Arts and Science Faculty

Degreés: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through

    
       
     
         
    
      
   
   
   

Say
Schwark

and be sure/

eo

 

SPM is cht: we dda atertiely eratetal, the courses, 2 good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
ious. | , : Sure.” We urge it for your |
_ We cannot leave our printers unnoticed. If it were The Professional Faculties ela aypate Egat tg

} in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unex¢elled reputation.
Inclusive Fees; in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.

in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

. Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee,
Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and
Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

not for capable Lou Smith, editors would have their work as a
real time-breaker. Also the very fine work of Miss Florence
MacAulay of the night linotype staff, and the “boys” on the
day McCurdy’s,

lly, we would like to state we have never been satisfied

 
 

articles through that we have felt ‘Mediocre, or

+ e

   

‘ent with a position of continued dullness without trysomething about it. On this charge, our sins or halos

ft ie oie
. a =

 

 
  
 

F > * aa

ae

  
 

    

% oe
j . p e
ne mem Fie
a F +
,
me
7

=} oe
oi i ade
ik ie F,

Fea ee Be

TOM PATTERSON
"As Medicine goes . . .”

By R. J. McCLEAVE

The fortunes of war were
varying again as spring approached. The most amazing
man of the world had once more
led his armies to personal triumph in Russia as snows abated and mud set in to help his
reserves capture Kharkov.
Whether the victory was gained at the expense of the summer offensive would only be
told by time.

The Axis was desperate. Rommel
faced annihilation in Tunisia within
six months, The time was) long
enough to enable south Europe to be
made a strong defense against invasion. But elsewhere the position
was not happy, secure. Allied bombing was achieving some destruction
among German industrial plants, but
more especially had increased housing difficulties by sending one half
percent of Germany’s population out
in the streets to gaze dully- back at
wrecked, flaming homes. But this
number was really worse than it
first appeared: twenty percent and
over of Germany’s population lives
in towns and cities.

The result was that Allied people |
looked around grimly for more’
things to be taken from their increased From

ing power.
pleasure to necessity, from liquor to
foods, rationing was having its ef
fect. More victory loans would have '
the experts stumping around the:

country, and people were advised to
put excess spending power into bonds
and stamps. In the United States a
half dozen alphabetical organizations wallowed through red tape to
achieve stabilization of the country’s
finances, and prevent inflation; in
Canada a middling man with a middling personality but one of the
astutest political minds of the century was leading his country importantly to war.

All over Canada recruitments were
playing basic training centres, Manning Depots, naval rookie establish
‘ments to the hilt. The Universities

were prepared to close. Theirs had.
been magnificent work during the
year, though the critical but undis
cerning eye of the people had not.’

represented them too fairly. The

war had been postponed from its

conclusion and the slavery of the

world prevented on the playing fields. '
of Eton as Britains had kept the: |

victory from Hitler; now the playing
fields of every University in Canada
from Dalhousie to U. B. C. would
produce the men to win it. In their
science laboratories, on every outing

-__

where most of all minds were being

sharpened to the critical appreciation |

of mankind which spoke well. for

after the war, in the cold slabs of
medical labs. among statutes and
regulations, in uniform as 0.T.C. and
U. A. T. C., students were forging
doom for Nazidom and tyranny.
Their fellows everywhere were assisting the fight. j

Medicine Going to War
Sweeping back to the medical

scene,

_ sealpel. Dalhousie men were filling

Loy hg Appr agi“ hi
manity’s fl against e :
7 Stand-Out 
At a meeting last Monday a tall,
t young man with

 

 

  
  
  
   
   
   

 

observers noted the first col- |

 

       

Ti ee a te ee eT
al a ae. 7 ee

Oe (ea a
1, & Ag a ; re wen.) hha *y fe hl ar - +7 : ©

% ‘ rs tan
ee 4 Gi TA,
i hee eo.

ey <a a RE

Dalhousie Medical Students Work

Long Hours, Study Long Hours;
The Most Powerful Group On ‘The
Campus, They Are Most Potent In
Annual Elections, Though Manifest Plenty Of “One-Two-Three
. . . U-Pi-Dee” During The Year;
Their Sacrifices For The War Effort Are Magnificent.

the meeting adjourn. They did. It
was Tom Patterson, president-elect
of the new Students Council, and
vice-President and acting President
of the old. The meeting had been
the third in two days he had attended. Eight hours had been wasted during the two days when Boyd’s
“Textbook of Pathology” and Gray’s
“Anatomy” lay for swift use before
impending examinations,

The incident at Council had been
prompted by the election of memberat-large to Council. Medical student
Martin MacDonald was pitted
against Engineering Bill Hagen, the
latter a candidate for President of
the student body. Sunday the Council had wrangled,, got nowhere, deelared a recess-on the nomination.
The voting had been equal on that
occasion. As President, Patterson
had the choice of casting the deciding vote, but refrained. Hagen was
nominated, but that election was illegal, and besides a man with previous experience had been preferable.
Hagen had been his opponent in the
elections.

It was not hard to refrain from
casting this vote. There are always
mealy-minded individuals on any college campus without the spiritual
guts to recognize true motives behind of any kind of action. In the
final sense, it was determined by
Maconald’s refusal of candidacy in
elections.

2 ws
Extra-Curricularia

Patterson’s problem with student
council was not the only problem he
or his fellow meds had. Able to
muster the largest vote on the campus and swing elections, the faculty
had internal troubles that were not
concerned with the general Dalhousie
scene.

Third and fourth year Medicine
were all right. In uniform, steppedup classes might mean the loss of
earning power during the summer
months, but would not affect their
ability to stay at college. First year
would not continue into the summer
and so be able to work, and second
year would enter the army automatically on entrance into third year.

The crux of the situation lay in
the extra-medical activities which
haunted the students in first and second year. Government policy still
kept the men at military training, a

jsubject equally unhappy to both

the military and the meds. Examinations had showed a too high percentage of failures because of this
and various other reasons. Unable
to get out of training, many had
taken serious sessions of leave, and
were threatened with exportation to
army basics.

Limited funds kept the first and
second year men from the R.C.A.

|M.C., local branch, Dalhousie Uni
versity. Whether the situation would
be changed depended on the University’s ability to fight, the government’s to recognize a_ situation.
Pawns in the powerful, often clumsy
hands of the war effort, medicals
were turning to meet hopelessness,
everywhere.
* * *

Men of the Year

But the situation was not hopeless.
Most would graduate, and fulfill
their obligations in the war effort.
0.T.C. had done extra by the men in

of the engineers, in the Arts courses |°banging its training to include med
ical platoons. Common sense was
triumphing, but slowly.
The first time Tom Patterson

peaceful conditions among nations |KM0Ws he is “Man of the Year” is

when he reads this issue. For himself, for his readiness to lead Dalhousie politics for a second year, he
has been nominated; in the final
analysis it could well be the personification of the medical ideal in war
time conditions.

 

University Bequests

The University has received two
bequests from the estates of the late
Mr. and Mrs. I. C. Stewart. From
the late Mrs. Stewart, at a later date
will come a bequest to Medicine.
From the estate of Mr. Stewart
comes the money for establishment
of the I. C. Stewart Trust Fund, a
scholarship to be awarded annually
to a student, of either sex, from the
District of St. Mary’s, Guysborough
County. Another fund for the

|library also comes from the estate
|of-the late Captain David E. North,

a thousand dollars.

 

Of Year...

In the first eolumn of this page,
the Gazette has started a policy
which may be continued in future

years. Perhaps the hackground to
the personality made the first “Man
of the Year”. We offer here other
candidates considered by the editor.
(While we have mentioned several
people ecther than students, it was
felt best for obvious reasons to make
a selection from out of the student
body. If there were any rules to the
selection, we would like to initiate
the first and say it does not have
to be a student).
a

LAW—seemed to offer two candidates, the perennial Webster MacDonald, and Lieut. John MaclInness.
Since Law may be a disappearing
faculty under possible government
regulations these students rated
high, along with Commerce and Arts.

Macdonald has been very much in
the campus limelight. Gazette editor, business manager, “Pharos”
editor, president of Student Council,
member of football teams, Warrant
Officer in the O.T.C. ete.

MacInness has done important
work in this year, heading the important Munro Day arrangements
and also assisting on Red Cross.
Faultless dresser, (as far as Law
School goes he’s in there with the
rest of the funsters), leader in
0.T.C, Graduates this spring. Army
next.

* 2

Engineering—This faculty offered
two candidates, or possibly three.
Not in: order, they are Blanchard
Wiswell, Bill Hagen and Graham
Bennett. Of these Wiswell was
nearest. He offers the idea of good
student going good for all sort of
campus activities too. Engineers
can certainly boast of one of the
finest campus men in this O.T.C.
Sergeant, council man, head of the
Red Cross Ball, ete. With a voice
which sometimes raises to the pitch
of an irate mother-in-law Wiswell
often is heard on the parade ground.
He also managed to get very much
into football, and takes time out to
be socially a success. Glee Club too.

Hagen—Lieutentant, good organizer, most popular Sergeant-Major
yet at camp, football, assistant electrician to the Glee Club, with chance
of promotion.

Bennet — council representative,
spine of Engineer  interfactulty
teams, good student, Bob Walters

Award, ete.
a ie ig

Arts and Science—The ‘men’ here
were women. They were Helen MacKay, for the important work of
President of revived Arts and Science; Barbara White, for being a
definite personality around here.
Tries for everything, and made the
Glee Club presidency this year. Debated for her class last year. Able,
popular, fair student.

Mary Boswell. Easily a candidate.
On many Malcolm Honour Committtes, president of Delta Gamma, active in most girls activities. Graduates this year. Also _ students’
council,

* + *

Others—Flying Officer Comeau—
has started the new U.A.T.C. on the
campus. Promise of healthy rivalry
between it and O.T.C. to promote

 

nd
eS

U.A.T.C.

Track. . /.a@rute ... . didahdit.. .-.
drag .. . lift, centers of pressure
and points of recognition, hundreds
of g’s and station adjutants: the uninitiated might think himself afflicted with a case of acute dementia
praecox, but no, the scene is the
second story of the Science Building
where patient but weary instrutors
are moulding 52 Dalhousie students
into respectable members of the
U.A.T.C.

It was last January that these 52
eager-eyed fledglings gathered together for the first time, ready to take
to the air as soon as they were told
where the "planes were kept. Gently
informed that they had a long, tough
course ahead before they would even
see an airplane at close range, the
first wave of ardour gave way to
sober determination. Shortly after,
lectures began and the going began
to get tough. No one asked for
mercy, however, not even when examinations entered the picture. Next
on the agenda are more examinations
of all kinds, (including those promised by the university) and then
summer camp at an Air Station.

The credit for the success of No.
16 Squadron of the University Air
Training Corps voes mainly to Flying Officer H. R. Comeau, Officer in
Charge. Arriving at Dalhousie, he
found most of the available space
already occupied by the firmly entrenched C.O.T.C. By “scrounging
around”, however, and with the help
of the University authorities, space
was found in the Physics building
for an orderly room, and the engineer’s drafting room was made
available for lectures. Added to difficulties such as the minor delays
in getting equipment, Flying Officer
Comeau faced the problem of giving
an eight month’s course in four
months. These handicaps have all
been met, and a solid foundation laid
for the future progress of the unit.

In February, Flying Officer Comeau was given two able assistants
for his staff, Sergeant J. H. Hallett,
recently promoted to the rank of
Flight Sergeant, acting as clerk, and
the inscrutable Warrant Officer Ervin, who is the unit’s disciplinarian.
Both of these men are regarded with
awesome admiration by all the members of the unit. In March, two of
the trainees were promoted to the
rank of Acting Sergeants, one of
these being F. H. Forbes, who had
resigned his C.0.T.C. commission for
the Air Force blue, and the other
was Ralph O’Brien who is acting as

 

campus activities. U.A.T.C. has
shown itself capable of fitting in
with campus life.

Major Hogan — perennial choice,
Very much to the fore as a campus
personality. Was responsible for
Dalhousie sports last autumn, as
training time conflicted with football
games. Likes his men to have
“guts”, and was a trenchman of the
last war.

Dr. Stanley—the President of the
University probably deserves the
“Man of the Year” nomen more than
anyone else at the University, from
the outside standpoint. Early in the
term he made a brilliant defence of
liberal education over the CBC, and
has since put himself solidly as its
great pleader.

Dr. W. J. Archibald—one of Dalhousie’s great students of a decade
ago. Very active in student affairs
then. One of the new professors
this year, and led the important
S.C.M. conference recently. In the
laboratory, science students will tell
you he has devised some interesting,
practical experiments for them.

Mile. Lafeuille — the French department seems reorganized in some
courses, Since she has come to the
University the “Cercle Francaise”
has made the language study interesting to many members of her
classes.

|

Especially noteworthy in the history of the Dalhousie U.A.T.C. is the
fine spirit in which the program has
been put into effect. The Officer in
Charge has shown keen consideration
for the trainees, and has done his
best to see that there is as little
conflict as possible with studies and
regular activities of the students.
Consulting the rangs on matter affecting the unit may seem a little
unorthodox, but it has removed all
the unpleasantness of military discipline without destroying its effects.

Through the medium of the
“Gazette”, all the member of the
Dalhousie U.A.T.C. wish to express
their appreciation to Flying Officer
Comeau and his staff, as well as to
the R.C.A.F. instructors who are
giving so generously of their own

 

|
i

time to come to Dalhousie and give |

lectures.

Page Thre:

Music Club

The meeting of the Musie Club
will be at the home of Miss Jean
Fraser, 59 Coburg Road (corner LeMarshant St.) Miss Fraser is an
excellent violinist and is going to
play la movement of Tschaikowsky’s
violin concerto, and Mozart’s Sonata
for violin and piano. The final part
will be a recording of the Pastoral
Symphony.

All students and their friends are
welcome, but since it is essential to

 
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

know how many to expect, please
get in touch with one of the following: Harry Lappler, Jean Campbell
(Pine Hill), Myra Coldwell, Betty
O’Toole (Shirreff Hall), or Henry
Carter in the Drafting Room.

Gazette Points

Reportorial—Laurie Allison, 15;
Eileen Phinney, 17; Boris Funt, 23;
James Campbell, 14; Lionel Guravich, 1; W. R. Lawrence, 7; Henry
Carter, 11; Kel Antoft, 14; Eugene
Merry, 12; Ruth MacInnis, 3; Elaine
Hopewell, 24%; Kay Cox, 14%; Joyce
Harvey, 4%; Aneeta Goodman, 5;
Barbara White, 6%; Albert Wilansky, 1: James McLaren, 8; Don Corringham, 21; John MacLean, 6; G.
Mosher, 142; Bill Pope, %; Pat Hol
— >

lis, 4%; Ralph O’Brien, 1; Harry
Zappler, 3; Frederick Forbes, 2;
Doug MacKay, 1; Larry Sutherland,
1%.

Literary (decided by the Literary
editor and the English Faculty repHarry Aitkens, 5;
Kathyrn Bean, 11; Phyllis Blakely,
10; James Campbell, 5; David Coldwell, 8; Louis Collins, 9; Howard
Greer, 16; James McLaren, 8; Albert
Wilansky.

resentative )

A Day With Joe Palooka ‘i The

War Is Being Won On The Drawing
Boards Of Impeccable Lunacies

(The scene opens with a burst of
thunder, and an American eagle flying through the golden air of American democracy dragging in its beak
a Nazirat. This is allegorical, symbolical and unfascinating. Then
Palooka enters accompanied by some
people who make the butter ration
look like an imaginative enterprise
with their hokum):

Palooka is dressed as a playboy,
with his hair slicked under by a
slimy mess of grease, and with his
honest face obscured by a difficult
American undertaking. He is searching for the Countess della Bounce,
who has created so much havoc with
Americans in the last Great
and who is using her abilities to
Sinister advantage in this. When
last scene this fascinating great
grandmother was inside a burning
chateau, doomed to be burnt. Like
Frankenstein’s monster, she was
such an attraction at the box office
they had to revive her every once
in a while.

Palooka makes the round of the
party. But he just had a narrow
escape. His pal Jerry sees him with
girl friend Anne and goes into hySterics because she is xxing him
(he thinks). Breathing hard, Palooka makes his rounds of the party,
looking quite undistinguished in his
six feet as his super brain works on
a difficult errand. The unalterable
logic of the artist sent him into the
party to trap the woman who was
already there. What his role was is
hard to find out. He circles around
her like a hungry rat surveying a
trap. Then he finds himself alone.
He is going to arrest her. He has
her trapped.

Then she speaks. It is a cross
between the throaty whisper of
Hedy Lemarr in “White Cargo”, and
the insinuation of the unavailing
dance of Salome before St. Anthony.
Before it all other temptations in
this world are like pease-porridge
cold. But Palooka doesn’t act human. He arrests her, and goes back
to Anne d’rest.

PPPP

The following morning after this
coup de palook Anne and Joe stroll
through the country. It is a lovely
cloudless day, and can Anne help it
if she gazes at the clouds, while
mulling over the immediate prospects of American democracy. Suddenly Joe screams in horror. and
faints dead away. When he recovers
he tells Anne, “D’rest, you almost

War, |

killed that cute little worm, Oh,
what a shock I got... ” but further conversation is stilled as a

German paratrooper comes bicycling
down the road.

Joe at once recognizes him. With
a roar that could be heard a bull’s
bellow away, he dashed up to him,
caused him to dismount, tore away
the whiskers, false nose, and padded
shoulders of Schnozzle. “I beat you
in the ring before, you ratzi nazi,
and I’ll do it again”. He beats him
up. cuts off his head and sends it
home to his mother. She is tickled

to death. “Anne, d’rest, we must
butcher every one of these Nazi
swine”. “Oh, Joe, darling, sweetest,
ete”’.

PPPP

Our man is next seen in the ring
facing the incomparable Jack Bulldog, a personification of the British
spirit. They are sparring away to
the enjoyment of the combined nations, when suddenly Joe’s nostrils
twitch. He dashes aside his meek
manner, and beats the living daylights out of Bulldog. Then a true
sport, he announces, “I had to. The
Nazis are coming’. Sure enough,
there weré literally hundreds of
them. The fight grows furious. Joe
wounded several times. One a Nazi
bites his finger nails to the quick, and
another time he is stabbed in the
arm. But he continues on, hewins
away at the enemy, “I only got six
this time. You got to give credit to
General Eisenhower, though, because
he bore the brunt of the fighting. I
refused some more stripes today”,
he explained to his mother.

PPPP

The last scene is a touching Commando raid on France. Palooka sets
out with Jerry to raid Bordeaux.
The ship sinks (one of Kaiser’s
quickly built ones, in which they left
out a couple of rivets) but he swims
on. When Jerry faints he hauls him
along. To his surprise, he sights
his old pal Bateese in difficulties.
(It’s a military secret how he gets

in here). But Joe swims with him
too. Finally they make the coast.

Then starts one of those heroic displays that would have done credit
to a fighting rooster.

When he gets back to home, he is
fortunate to be able to get away
from the musty officers who try to
decorate him. But finally seventeen
hold him down, and one pins the
Crogk of Guerre (a la comic strip)
on his chest.

Blush,

 
 
 
  
    
 

 

sical Latin was an

 

on.
of

~ es.
oo na
a ae

Officers are, front row: 2nd Lieut. Glen MacDonald, Lieut. G. F. Curtis, Major R. V. Hogan,
Chief Instructor; Lieut.-Colonel C. B. Smith, Commanding Officer; Lieut. John MacInness, 2nd Lieut.

R. Morrow. Back row: 2nd Lieutenants R. Wickwire, R. Mussett, B. Swansburg, D. F. Smith, Don

Oland and William Hagen.

 

a

By ED MORRIS

“I wonder,” said the student, “whether it is not time to
stop the work we are doing and think of getting on to some
thing more useful?”

“On the contrary,” replied the professor, “we shall go right
On with our work. It was important before, and it is important
now—more important, indeed, than ever. It is one consolation we have work to do, and it is worth doing.”

This is the work they were doing.
For several months they had been
Studying a variety of Latin texts—
mscriptions, poems, letters, records
of personal experience, tales and the
like—written in the time when Latin
was becoming in an entirely new
way the vee language, in the
sense that the people were determining the words and forms in
which they would express their
thoughts and aims and hopes. The
student was learning to hear the
people’s speech in the few fragmentary written documents they had
left. It was a strong speech, generally crude and inelegant, but emphatic, personal, rich, with a sense
of human dignity.

Factor of Change

“Christianity, and Christianity
alone, brought that change,” the
professor had often mused. “Clasimpersonal

ans would say ‘itur’ but
Ch ans of our period were
ming to say ‘homo vadit’ as
r the French would say ‘hom va’
Germans ‘man geht.’ Where
we find such expressions as ‘facien est’ in the old Latin we find
‘homo debet facere’ in the new

istian Latin

      

 

“The old Latin put the emphasis
the action and left the agent out
the picture. But to Christian
ways of thinking, the agent was at

; @s important as the action.
this change was no mere gram
  

done’ is itself a answer to the fears
and supersitions of paganism.”

“But were not the people of the
Middle Ages ridden with fear and
superstition as well,” the ‘student
asked. “Certainly historians think
they were and much of our reading
stems to establish it.”

Man and God

“That is no doubt true of the very
late Middle Ages, but. I do not believe it applies to the early Middle
Ages. Christian faith and Christian
teaching had delivered the people
from the pagan idea that they were
the passive victims. of fortune, fate,
or the gods. Christianity showed
men that there were but two agents
in the world, God and Man. Linguistics shows us this.

“It shows us that the people, the
masses, Were so conscious of their
power to act, so aware of their selfmastery, so strong in their sense of
self-possession, that they made a
new language to express. these
things. In classical Latin texts it
is the orator speaking, or the grammarian, or the rhetor. But Vulgar
Latin is the people’s speech, the
language of the strong, self-reliant,
fearless people; and so are the
languages that grew out of Vulgar
Latin’ and those that developed
parallel to them—the Romance languages, German and English.”

These ideas had often prompted
another line of reflection. “I have
always thought,” the student once
remarked, “that the proper function
of all liberal education should not

‘be simply to make students familiar

with the great monuments of the

literary, historical, and artistic past,

Conversational Interlude

but to make the people of the present know the people of the past,
and to give them a sense of their
own dignity as people by making
them see what great things their
forebears of times past have built
and loved and handed on.

“What is the good of knowing
what one man wrote or another man
thought or another sang or painted
or carved, or how a few kings ruled
or a few saints prayed, unless we
know what the people were doing
and how they were living, and how
these individuals and their works
represented and affected the lives
and thoughts of the people? If education doesn’t give the people a sense
of their power and dignity, and of
the richness that is theirs simply by
inheriianee from the people who
lived before them and still live in
them, what good is education?”

Fraternity

“txactly,” the professor answered.
“And this work that we are doing,
this study of linguistics, can become
one of the simplest ways of making
students conscious of the brotherhood of man. Speech is the primary
instrument of communal living and
working and it is the basic cultural
gift. of the past to the present.
Linguistics makes it possible for us
to hear the people talk. It shows
us how from time immemorial and
from generation to generation they
have molded speech to their own
need of self-expression.

“If, by studying the changes which
the people imposed upon their speech
we can learn to perceive what ‘self’
they needed to express we come very
close to knowing what they were
and what they thought and how they
lived and what they were living for.”

“Don’t you think,” asked the student, “that this suggests one of the
real deficiencies of our understanding of a liberal education? Haven’t
we inherited from the humanists an
aristocratic or perfectionist tradition
in education which has led us to deal
too exclusively with the most perfect products—the masterworks and
the master workers—and to give too
little attention to the ordinary people, the folk, and their activities
and productions? For one course in
folk drama or folk music, for instance, you can find dozens of courses on the works of the classical
dramatists and composers.”

 

Year Book. .

“I think that is true,’ said the
professor, “despite the perfectly ob
vious fact that without the ordinary |

or popular works there would be no
mastorworks. The masterworks draw
their material and their inspiration
from popular sources. The truly
creative agent behind them is the
people.”

Not of the Masses

“And for losing sight of that
fact,” said the student, “‘the students
miss the finest, and, we now see, the
most necessary fruit of a liberal education. Their education should
teach them before all and above all
to realize themselves as belonging
to the people, as integral and humble
parts of the living and working
brotherhood of man; but instead
they acquire an attitude, perhaps unconscious, and certainly unfounded in
reality, of superiority to the masses
who do not know, or do not appreciate, the ‘great’ works of the past.
intellectual separatism, or class distinction between the ‘educated’ and
the ‘uneducated’ has been to a greater or lesser degree the result of the
aristocratic tendency in education.”

“There is another defect in the
humanist program of education,” the
professor said, “which will have to
be corrected if education is to serve
society more fully than it has so far.
Liberal education has been too individualistic. The social and political
sciences have laid great emphasis on
the rights and privileges of the individual, and that emphasis was
right and salutary; but it has tended
to obscure the rights of the community and the individual’s responsibility to it. Consequently the educated individual is likely to feel
himself isolated from or superior to
the community in general, as the
educated group feels itself superior
to the rest of the community.”

Man Alone

“It seems to me,” said the student
“that the individual’s sense of isolation is not due to the political and
social sciences alone. Take such
studies as philosophy and psychology, with their emphasis on human
nature and human behaviour. I have
often felt that they make a student
see all ‘man’ to himself, and himself as an abstraction; and to a corresponding degree, they fail to give
him an increased awareness of his

place in the flesh-and-bone community of men.

“And if that is true then democratic education has failed to be

really democratic in the exact degree that it has been too individualistic. ‘Education for democracy’
will have to remedy this defect and
will have to envisage its subjects
and techniques primarily as means
of making the individual a conscious,
grateful, and co-operative member of
the community—of the people.”
“But you must not forget,” the
professor said, “that in fact there
must always be groups and graduations in society. You aren’t aiming
at an absolute leveling, are you?”

“That isn’t what I mean,” the student answered. “The levels will always be there. I’m talking about

the attitude of one level to another.
As long as distrust and antipathy
divide the scholars and the nonscholars, the more educated and the
less educated, we can’t have the creative unity which produces the great
works of the spirit, nor the inutual
sympathy and gratitude which produce peace. Can’t scholarship and
education foster these ideas?”

Being Human...

“We must aim to,” said the professor. “In fact, before this war began, many scholars in my field, all
over the world, were coming to this
view of the science of linguistics,
and were building up a great common fund of socially valuable knowledge. Now that co-operation is
temporarity stopped; but we must
go on with the work. It will be
important in the time to come. If
we can make people realize and appreciate how rich they are just by
being human, and being alive, and
sharing with other people all the
things that the generations of the
past have given them, they will be
happier and prouder and more contented with what they have; and perhaps they will haev less desire to
fight other men when they fell how
precious are the treasures. which all
men have in common,”

“Then you really think that this
work is useful enough to go on with,
even now,” said the student. “You
still think that students also serve?”
“Tf we can use our knowledge to
draw men together,” the professor
replied, “we shall be useful members
of the brotherhood of man.”

' March 19, 1943

In the five pictures are shown the four companies of the
Dalhousie-King’s C.O.T.C. and their officers. Taken following
the annual inspection. These cuts will also be available for the

: OQ. C. T. Notes:

‘Favorable Results
‘F rom Tests For
'Officerial Candidates

An air of military secrecy shrouds
the results of “M” tests, T.O.E.T.,
and the rest of the examinations, but
military authorities on the campus
have expressed themselves as pleas|ed with preliminary results. A majority of the candidates have passed
it was learned.

 

Saturday will see the muster parade and kit inspection, and next
week will be the final of the syllabus. The O.T.C. year will be climaxed by another church parade the
following Sunday. The Protestant
party will proceed to St. Paul’s,
while it is hoped the Roman Catholic
party may go to St. Mary’s Cathedral. It is understood a pipe band
will accompany the cadets.

My$tery Parade

Soon after that, during the following week a parade which military authoritie$ have refu$ed to
divulge the nature of, will be held.
It if left for the unit to gue$$ the
nature of this. Major Hogan gave
no comment$.

It is now definitely decided the
unit will go into camp May 18, and
emerge the 27th. The contingent
will be the first college one into camp
this year, and the first of any unit
in the district.

Two recent promotions have included Cadet L. Sellick to be Acting
Corporal, and Cadet (Acting Corporal) Eisenhauer, to be Acting Sergeant,

 

O.T.C. pictures may. be seen in the
gymnasium and orders will be taken
by Roy for individual prints. The
collection will remain on display for
another week.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

: Arehnyr es U nc der I
Best. . The ayer is eanaen
n all pl obably Anon. or Ibid, two of this
yea ost prol writers. Tattered and dog| a, ihe: poem is no

  
   
   
  
 
 

 

complete. It is presumed that the
ig bane were feeinet in as distinction essays in

 
 

’ ‘

 

 

  

CANTO THE FIRST

1 September sun was rising, and the grass was turning brown,
i from his fleecy eyrie, the President looked down;
4 Me ‘ or, lo, along the Senior Walk, renowned of ancient lay,

‘ame myriads of Freshmen, for ’twas Registration Day.

 
 

  

CANTO THE SECOND

% or, with looks of dumb amazement, and, with startled eyes aglow,
They were shunted to the office, their shekels to bestow;

aed the Faculty was happy, as the coffers overflew,

For, with one more year of lectures, they would have no work to do.

  

-—

   

a
a. ” CANTO THE THIRD

5 Shdenty, the scene is changed, the Freshman crowd the Gym.
_ With mouths agape, they wait, and cry, “tis him, ‘tis him!”
x For between the red plush curtanns comes a man of august looks,
gh And murmurs from patrician lips, “I want to talk of Books.”

CANTO THE FOURTH

a e Fresman stands with awestruck ears, and straightway is indpired:
Aa “From Virgil and the Iliad we draw celestial fire.”

A

mite ae 6 aule a1 600.006.420.084 8 6.9/4 8 4-C EO Ome ee nes ee
F ;

” ; CANTO THE THIRTEENTH

> With professors pouring wisdom into co-ed’s two-way ears,

7 ‘Unhe the fourth Gazette now privily appears;

But ’tis not long unnoticed; the Kditor’s informed eftsoon:
"The President will sue you and your staffs tomorrow noon.”

- CANTO THE FOURTEENTH

Though we thought it was seraphic
And of import biographic,
They called it Pornographic, and condemnation we did hear;
- But defence came from other Deans,
; - Who said it wasn’t quite obscene,
And it really did seem rather mean, to bounce us on our ear.
So they wiped our tear$ up gently, and showed us the door,
With hand-shake and with gentle pat, to go on and sin no more.

eee - CANTO THE FIFTEENTH

© shades of hell; the papers yell, “Zoot Suits to Disappear!
“No more plaid shirts; no baggy tweeds. Khaki’s in style this year?”
‘Thus spake bold Hogan;Fashion’s king, from 0.T.C. H.Q.

“From boring week-eds, listless nights, we’re glad to relieve you.
: For how can man die better, than charging up a hill

Against th’ imaginary foe, on Sunday battle drill ?”

) (Three cantos are obviously missing here)

 

>

CANTO THE NINETEENTH
And days grew short, and nights grew long, and dimly shone the son,

‘Twas over. Ah, but known? Bold Dallians quaked with fear,
On the Gym door ’twas writ, “Abandon hope, all ye who enter here.”
And all didst write the term exam,

And some remained, and some did scram,

For Ralston said, “We'll get the man,

With a 89, this year.”

CANTO THE TWENTIETH

And some with jeers, and some with tears, and some with beets and gin,
And some with texts, and some with sex, all saw the New Year in.

eeteeevaevneeeeaenesseeovvaeseenene

 

weeeoereeese esas eeew ee seeer teases

: Ci THE TWENTY-ONEST
¢: “You're Foot-slogging Soldiers” was the O.T.C. slogan;
But some of the boys left their old Alma Hogan,
For the lure of the blue, we must humbly confess,
_ Filled the subsequent orders with a sad SOS.

.

CANTO THE TWENTY-SECOND
And from that grim-lipped visage the hardened lines did fade,
As in the sore-depleted ranks promotions oft were made.
Hooks and pips flew fast around, to make the Kadets glad;

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
    
  
 

| CANTO THE TWENTY-THIRD |

The Gas, with world events apace,
Ttied to teach Dalhousie’s race
That they should love the Fuehrer’s face,
But it didn’t go so well.
They all agreed the Dal “Zeitung”
Should have its staff quite thoroughly hung,
But no one knew quite who got stung,
Se Hitler’s back in—Dn epropetrovsk .
Sie ele
CANTO THE TWENTY-SEVENTH

Came October and the Freshman Show
‘With leaf-clad mermaids in a row.

- The Fashion Show went with well-dressed goons
Went to Carnegie Hall with the very best tunes.

CANTO THE TWENTY-EIGHTH

The “Fresh Fields” play by Ivor Novello,
Produced in February, turned out swello;
_ The Engineers’ Banquet—the annual frolic—
Gave an audience gay, though a bit alcoholic.

‘he CANTO THE ‘THIRTF-FIRST
taal ‘The Student Solons counselled, and they named election day,
And bade their messengers ride forth, east and west, south and north,
_ To summon an array.
Then Hagen, mighty Hagen, carried Studley’s banner high;
ny ( “And doughty Patterson, the light of battle in his eye,
: eee. :
R Bigs acess, the Salas a gory mess,

  
  
   
  

And ’fore Engineers quaffed forty beers, the first term’s work was done.

- But though joy came in the morning, th’ “oppressed” Meds still stayed mad.

SP a
+ om ox re

; 4 =
a f z i 4 _

As this terms ends, so end
these dreams: ‘“Med’s are such

stuff as dreams are made of.’

One echoes the words of the immortal bard. “And our little
life is rounded by a sleep.” One
might echo that our life is
rounded by d————little sleep.
Creighton burns the midnight
oil, and Phil Cole, and Butch
Stewart, and Ken Hall, and
Fred Akin, and Horace Hall
stays up until six in the morning. And this state of affairs
is no dream, but very real.

Yet nothing of studies bothered
Uppie Moffat last weekend. Uppie
has just returned from Mount Allison. The mud was all gone from in
back of Fawcet Hall and the grass
at the quarry had turned green again
the old waterfall dripped merrily
away, and Uppie had a glorious
time. And now much refreshed, he’s
pounding the books as before.

The Wilk and Creighton shot soggy serviettes straight and hard, and
hit their mark. And it must have
been worth all the cost to see the
look on the face of the theologue
puritans as they ducked the missles
whizzing past their ears. Since the
Wilk and Creighton bore the cost,
one owes them much thanks for the
amusement.

A soldier has retired. Maddin has
gone from the ranks. He has been
demilitarized It was thought he
might shoot somebody by mistake.

The dream is done, and now come

OXFORD

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
“THE MOON AND SIXPENCE”

“MY HEART BELONGS TO
DADDY”

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“FOR ME AND MY GIRL”
with Judy Garland

ORPHEUS:

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

“HOUSE OF ARROW”
“WEST OF THE LAW”

*

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

‘BOOTS AND SADDLES”
with Gene Autry

GARRICK
*

Saturday, Montday, Tuesday

“LADY BODY GUARD”
and Shorts

 

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

“BLOOD AND SAND”
“SUN VALLEY SERENADE”

Three Full Shows—Come Early!

Che BEST r a

 

 

  
    
  
   
   

  

  

 

Seeing this is the last edition, we
will review the past year in the
“Sanctum Sanctorium”. |

ee.

The Engineers have carried off
the Inter-faculty Football and Basketball trophies and they both reside in the Drafting Room.

We eh hae

The Horizontal Club has had a
very quiet year, owing to the rationing of supplies. However, President Bob Wickwire says: “Like everything else, c’est la Guerre.”

* * e

Of the various other students who
appeared around the Drafting Room,
probably the most prominent was
“Acadia”, whose hearty laugt invaded the Drafting Room on Thursday afternoon with “Got your Mech
2 problems done, boys?”

* * *

We don’t know if it’s just a co
‘incidence, but while Mackie Camp
bell succeeded in winning Jacquine
before she left, young brother Ian
has been lately stepping out with
Rence, another of our war guests
from the Old Country.

* * * *

In spite of intermittent statements

that it was all “off”, Bang and Bar-|,

ry are still seen together whenever
they can both spare a few hours
from studying at the same time.
* * *
Graham Barrett’s chief occupation
during the year have been signmaking. Pep-rallies, Glee Club,

nightmares as all med’s turn to their
books to finish the last heat of the
term. May the gods be kind, and let
Asculapius take care of his own until
the examinations are written and the
college year finished.

  

CAPITOL

MONDAY, TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY

“Life Begins At
Eight-thirty”
Monty Wooley
* ‘

THURSDAY, FRIDAY
SATURDAY

   
   
  
  
  
   
  

“Commandos

Strike at Dawn”

er)?

Best Pictures of the Year !

E SERVE}

1

Starring hod Aton ad a

* Teas .

oe * iy

 

a i

ee ee
‘4.

 

  

) ihe ir ieissala

LIPPINGS

By Ted Shields

 
  

Well, here’s the final edition of
what is probably the most knockedabout column the Gazette has run
for years, Using our fingers we can
count up six Clippers without half
trying, in the 19 numbers of the
paper. And they say France had
unstable government! “Clippings”
was prominently mentioned in the
“pornigraphic” case way back last
October, when the Gazette was the
first of the college papers across
Canada to feel the new “cleansing”’

dance or football game, they all

come to Graham.
¥ *% 8

We were all glad to see “Tank”
Waterfield back during the week for
a short visit. The only thing he had
to say for the “T-Square” was “best
wishes”. We wish: him lots of luck
anyway, wherever he may be sent.

Henry was walking around dead
on his feet after his medical last
week. Fortunately, however, the report that he was dying proved false
and he is now O.K. again.

i

Whatever you thought of the TSquare, don’t blame it on one person, since many have had their
hands in it. If there has been anything in it you didn’t like, just remember to take it in the way it was

  

y, the ee , an
good fun, though perhaps a bit tarnished at —_ f

Here’s a Sonnet to a Glamor Girl
from the Gateway, that some misanthrope might apply to Shirrefans
in general Of course we’re only suggesting: 4

Woses are wed,

Viowlets are bwue,

The wain on the woof

Weminds me of you—

Dwip, Dwip, Dwip.
And who was it said “the best Engineers of all, (yep, you guessed it),
Go to Shirreff Hall.”
V

Voy

In the March 5th edition of the
McMaster Silhouette appears an article on “The Complete College
Man”. The article is unsigned, but
most of last year’s readers of the
Gazette would recognize the work of
Feature Editor John Tasman, the
article being, in fact, the concluding
one of the “Mentor” series. Not that
we have any gripe at the reprinting
of the column; far from it, it is a
definite compliment to the author
that “the Complete College Man”
should have a universal application
that it is as amusing in Ontario as
in Nova Scotia. There is a camaradie among college papers by which
outstanding articles and stories are
used from one end of the country to
the other. But it is extremely poor
taste on the part of the Silhouette,
to say the least, not to acknowledge
the source of this article, by a son
of whom Dalhousie is just proud.

Vu ¥

The last faint hangovers of Munro
Day bring this story to mind:

A Kentuckian entered a saloon
with his wife and five-year old boy.

| He ordered two straight whiskies.

“Hey, Pa,” the kid asked. “Ain’t

means, and mow good luck in the| ya drinkin’?”—The Gateway.

mid-April quizzer.

JACK MITCHELL'S
BARBER SHOP

Four Experienced Barbers

 

 

“WONDER WHAT THAT FELLOW
THINKS ABOUT ON THE
WAY DOWN”

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”
THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone B-6851

 
   
    
 
 
 

  

“Did you know that high
altitude makes you ferribly thirsty? ‘Dehydrates’,
they call it. Who wouldn't
want an ice-cold Coke.
Coca-Cola nof only
quenches thirst, it adds
refreshment, too. And taste
.. a deliciousness all its own.
And quality you count on.
Makes you glad you were
. thirsty.”

 
 

 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
    

“ie.

 

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

THE AMERICAN GRILL

22 GRANVILLE STREET

24 Hour Service
COLLEGE STUDENTS WELCOME

 

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

490 BARRINGTON STREET

 

LORD NELSON HOTEL

But Pits ail teks =

   
 
    
  

    
   
  

  
     
     

    

     

    
  
      
     
     
    

     
   
      
 
 
 

  
   
        

              
     
         
         
             
         
           
     
       
       
     
       
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
     
 
 

ce ANDS
REAK

Hi aha
ae
ine

Our Spring Stock Now On Hand

  
 

Drop In and See Our Complete Line of

  
   

    

  

SUITS, COATS, HATS, GLOVES, TIES
MILITARY CLOTHING and FURNISHINGS

      
 

 
 
 
  
 
  

 
 

*

       

When the Gazette staff had its
‘ picture taken the other day, Hileen
' Phinney, Women’s Editor; E. J..
_ Shields, Managing Editor, and David |
_ Coldwell, Literary Editor, just
wern’t there. Reasons ranged from §

  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 

   
 
  
 

   
 
 

SHANE’S MEN’S WEAR

 

     
 

     
    
   
   
  

 

 
 

        

  

hands: nor run from accidental

For service and safety,
er iercate

10c each, less in quantities
Made in Canada by
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY

Manager to be made then. Appdications still to be received, though several in for each job.

New Council — Tom Patterson
moved out of one into the other
still as leader, Bill Hagen nominated as travelling member, and
Laura MacKenzie as Freshette Representative. Miss White is second
Vice-President. War Services Council named, along with other committees. This council will be one of
the most important functioning
bodies of next year’s government.

sleepiness to the cold weather. Here §
. they are. THE STORE PREFERRED BY STUDENTS

Bose filaments) (Can, Pat COUNCIL MEETING |2 =|{| 112 SPRING GARDEN ROAD HALIFAX
oy sharpener every time, and Old Council — Discussed budgets, |= =
ds it with a steely flexibility 2 d = js R a as =
that stubbornly resists e. | but final reports will be given at|= =
protects your records, : : |= =
too! Its. 24 brilliant, insoluble Die iH Tae aa pte Ga-|é by ED MORRIS =
reer te Met emmen: under moist a CG CMOTSALP ANE Che Suashrress | > sii sae nL NN A

Department of Utter Confusion for the Week

“The sporting man’s sense of luck and chance is an inarticulate or inchoate animism ... it implies the possibility of
propitiating, or of deceiving and cajoling, or otherwise disturbing the unfolding of propensities resident in the objects which
constitute the apparatus and accessories of any game of skill or
chance. There are few sporting men who are not in the habit

3?

NO -- NOT IN NOVA SCOTIA

“Join the Army and see a telephone”, suggests the New
York Sun in a story about an Oklahoma farm boy. The lad
joined the Army Air Force ar a mechanic. In the recruiting
office, he used a telephone for the first time in his life.

   

Cerra sly 6
of wearing charms or talismans.’’—Thorstein Veblen in a book.)

Like he said

Anyway, if you've recovered from your mental turmoil,
we'll take a look at the average sportsman, whose “sense of
luck and chance is an inarticulate or inchoate animism,” whatever that means.

There are few sporting men who are not in the habit of
wearing charms or talismans. That is, few with the exception
of Dalhousie sportsmen, who had what might be called, in the
Like I said

“I just never lived around a telephone,” he explained, “but
it seems like a good thing if you can understand it!”

Certainly the Defence Forces seem to think so. To supply
their demands for telephones, telephone facilities, wires and
other communication systems, our crews are working day and
night. Practically all the telephone equipment now being made
is going to war. So please keep your local calls to the mini
ee
COLORED PENCILS

{

Beep
BALLAD FOR DALHOUSIANS 
(Continued 1 page five)

Forrest bow they’e singing, the Meds so gaily shout.
nt there is no joy on Studley—mighty Hagen was struck out!

mum and help keep the lines clear for important war messages!

MARITIME TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE
COMPANY, LIMITED

language of the street, a bum year.
we ae) eT gy

Footoall was neither here nor there. The Tigers had a good team
team (giving them the advantage of the doubt) in the senior loop, and in
the Junior circuit ahey also ran. But “fair” and “good” and “tops” are
relative terms. A high-school baseball team may be world-beaters in
their own back yard, but turn them loose against a senior squad and they
just don’t show.

Any other year the Tigers might have gone places and done things,
though admittedly on a rather small scale. But this year they faced the
weight of Canada’s blitz-trained army who had the uncomfortable advantage of half-a-million spares, a squad of husky Tars, and a crew of desperadoes from a place in Wolfville whose name I can’t remember, but it
rhymes with guess what.

| NULL LT

CANTO THE THIRTY-FOURTH
With roll of drums, and sound of horn,
For 1.8.8. funds, Munro Day’s born.
' With Hogan and basketball, grab-bags and a Kuiz,
fe i The grabs weren’t so bad, and the rest—oh, Gee Whiz!
li
a)

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

bi. A
i

 

F _ Kutsenko gave an inspiring lecture,

_ It missed the point, but what the hecture.

_ Though delighted by dancing, awards, Glee Club show,

Strange, emptied lockers brought many sad woe.

_ And as the shades of night fell fast, there came, ah, wicked chortles!
ae Rufus Rayne, sad ghost again—his pockets filled with bottles.

roe rae S :
Students who do not desire a complete course in any of
tne Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING .

will be valuable aid in future years.

Hockey didn’t pan out as expected, and, as the student paper remarked
in obvious humor, “hit the skids”. First, there was no ice, then there was:
ice and on moeny, and finally money and no players.

@———-------- In the realm of lesser sport there as A The ata ‘
was just oodles and oodles of fun. ARTS AND SCIENCE—
(Continued from page one)

First off there was a modified knock- y
elect a Dramatics Manager. Art

rt Rows - and - trag-em-out battle Hartling and Irma MacQuarrie were
with some students over a few mis-|civen the job of looking after actiplaced remarks of undeniable truth! vities, should there be any activity
at Dalhousie next year, also should

CANTO THE NINETY-NINTH
iat now, alas! Glad days are past! And April’s suns o’erhead.
_ Sink one sad tear in thy last beer, and wish that you were dead.

 

“Gather ye cribs and notes to say,
eee bring only sorrow,

_And the book ye should have read today
Will be too late tomorrow.

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

stents

 

eeitle reader, and do likewise.)
‘Pe

With one sad sigh, at last good-bye; a tender farewell kiss;
| Tum-tum-te-tum, tum-iddy-um,—aw, to hell with this ... :

* *

_ (Ed. Note: Here this strange manuscript ends; the writing trails off
into a dark brown stain all too clearly human blood. There is a faint
smell of bitter almonds clinging to the pages. It is evident the unknown,
 star-crossed, genius-flecked author hanged himself in despair.

Go thou,

 

about the nasal properties of a small
jerkwater joint on the road to Kentville. From this fiasco a handful of
undergraduates, notably Engineers,
returned with marks of their valor
in mortal combat and in the face of
numerical odds.

there be Arts and Science.

At the close of the meeting, Bob
McCleave was universally acclaimed
as the saviour of the Arts & Science
cause, and a vote of thanks was extended to Helen MacKay, retiring
president, for her efforts in trying to
keep the Society from lapsing inte a
state of eternal bliss.

MAPLE LEAF DAIRY

A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.

Phone L. 2357
MILK — CREAM — BLEND - BUTTERMILK

' YOUR SUIT COATS AND DRESSES
et. Compliments o Look Newer

 

\. || THE HUGHES OWENS
| CO. LIMITED

MONTREAL

*

e

Quality and style to suit the high
requirements of the students of
Dalhousie will be found at the

largest Furriers

in the East.

*

MARITIME FURRIERS LIMITED
SACKVILLE STREET, HALIFAX

 

pS

 

 

Last Longer

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,
to keep them feeling soft and fresh, to maintain
shapely, slylish lines. A good wartime practice
is: Buy fewer clothes—send what you have to
Cousins often.

 

LimiTreD

CLEANERS LAUNDERERS DYERS STORAGE

 

STUDENTS!

NORMAN’S CAFE

HOLLIS STREET

B-9575
