e om 3 rts d-—
ing, at 12 -o’clock on

 

 

 

O.T.C. will embrace
all male students
medically fit at the
University, according to an announcement by Major
Hogan last night.
About 45 students
are affected.

 

 

 

 

MUMIA DAEDALUS
by EUGENE MERRY
NOMA A
Thought of the week: It’s not
what our girl knows that bothers us.
_ It’s how she learned it.
. a a
Saturday Night Grace:
tn O Lord we thank Thee
ee, For these beans
If they be beans,
he And I’m afraid they be.
Ye VAit
Senior: “May I take you home?
I like to take experienced girls
»” home?” ~ |
Freshette: “But I’m not experienced,”
} Senior: “No, and you are not home
yet either.”
-* Vio Wig
¥ Co-eds Train Three Hours a Week
. Girls on the Alberta campus are
faced with the necessity of upholding their share of responsibility on
the Canadian home front. The
. “Gateway” states that all girls unth * Jess physically unfit must do three
_ hours a week as a minimum of
training; they will preform such
duties as First Aid, Home Nursing,
Red Cross Work and knitting for
the C.0.T.C.
OV
~ Just Out: 1928. We've recently
heard of a trapper who skinned a
raccoon and found a Yale man inside—McGill Daily.
VV ie
We see in all college papers, stor— ies of students harvesting crops for
short handed farmers. Don’t YOU
think it would be an appropriate
idea for students, from “The College
by The Sea” to go fishing for, lets
- Say, seven days a week with time
off for C.0.T.C.

 
    

‘.

Ye
. HUNKS of VERSE
"There was a young fellow of Wheeling,
“4 Endowed with such delicate feeling,

__ When he read, on the door,

4 “Don’t spit on the floor,”

Be jumped up and spat on the
ceiling.

 

A nut at the wheel
} Ae A peach at his right
x A turn in the road
o. Fruit salad.
7 3 ¥ovwey
Date Bureau is Style of the Day
By arrangements of the Date
Bureau in The University of Manitoba, many frantic males and fe_ males were brought together in
* bunches, amounting to almost one
| hundred dates, |
__ (Nice picking eh!? ? ?)
, ; Yo ¥ Ww
__.- Freshette: “No, we mustn’t Didn’t
\ you know that the President has
| stopped necking ?’”
+ Freshman: “First thing you know
| hell be asking the students to stop.”

au
a
. >

  
 
 
   
   

 
 
   
 

_ |] These boy friends of Kissy’s.
We have more darn fun keeping
| | track of them. The latest is
a | Freddy B., whose only qualifica
 

   

| ti at he won't work, and, |

 
 

" \

   

‘BELOVED LAND

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 23, 1942

 

ANCIENT BEAUTY SPOT DOOMED

 

DP eer

Due to wartime restrictions no picture could be obtained of the
building now under fire from Prominent Authorities; however, the
Gazette has fortunately been able to secure the above cut of an edifice
distinctly similar in its graceful proportions of the Georgian Period
of Early American Gothic. The fertile brain of Clarence “Diddles”
Leakston conceived both architectural triumphs from designs he
stumbled upon while picnicking in Cow Bay. Unfortunately several
of the original plates seem to be still missing, and readers are requested to use their imaginations to supply interior details.

ARK 10 BE

 

No. 4

 

DEMOLISHED 2

Director Selective Service
Says Non- Draft Escapees

 

Moot Court Clancy

Scores Again: More
Trial, Tribulation

The fourth Sittings of the Fall
term of the Supreme Moot Court
of Dalhousie were held on Friday,
Oct. 16. MacDonald, LC. J,.MacDougall and Kapak, L., JJ. were on.
the Bench.

The case on appeal was Smith v.
Hart. Elizabeth Allen, K.C. with J.
Wilson were counsel for the appellant; while Lawrence MelIvor with
Bill Proudfoot acted for the Respondent. Both junior counsel were commended for their congratulatory
addresses to the Bench. Miss Allen,
combining the charm and grace of
a Southern belle with her clear
knowledge of the law was successful in convincing their lordships that

|the appeal should be allowed. Lord

Justice MacDougall dissented. Mr.

Meclvor, with the tenacity and deter- |

mination of a Cape Breton miner,
argued valiantly for the Respondent;
but the weight of law was against
him.

The decorum and dignity of the

 

By Cy WU. P.

“It is recognized that the
graduates have special qualifications to aid in the conduct of
the war, and therefore you are
specially guarded and cared
for. It is as though you were
a precious war material, the
supply of which must be guaranteed, the quality maintained,
and the distribution controlled.
You are a war material were
the words of L. Austin Wright,
director of National Selective
Service, speaking at Queen’s
University last Saturday.

Mr. Wright deals first with the
Wartime Bureau of Technical Personnel, under control of which all
students in Science courses will come
on graduation. Serving as part of
this bureau is an advisory board
consisting of representatives of the
universities, engineers and prospective employers. 25,000 people, an
estimated 80% of the manpower, are
enlisted with the bureau.

There has been a good deal of
criticism of the privileges granted
'to students, allegedly permitting

 

‘them to escape the draft.. “We do
inot agree with this,’ said Mr.
| Wright, adding that it takes a long
     
 
 
   
 

  
  
 
     

     
   

(In the interest of security, the following dispatch has been gleefully
censored at random. It may be reprinted in any form whatsoever under some fool Act signed in 1215.)

    
    
 
   
   
  
  
    
    
 
    
   
    
    
   
     
    

An East Coast Port, Oct. 22—
Reliable information, obtained
by the Gazette’s war correspondent at the risk of his life, has
revealed that a concentrated
scorched-earth program will be
pursued in connection with the
proposed demolition of an architectural triumph in (censored). Male students have
solidly opposed construction of
the building on the grounds
that it will be used for purposes “dangerous to the moral
codes of the undergraduates”’.
Rumore have been circulated
for some time that a wet canteen for the distribution of
(censored) and (censored) and

Dal Students Are
War Victims: Two
Airforcemen Killed

War struck sharply at the Dalhousie campus this week when it was
learned two students in the King’s

service had been killed through
enemy operations. Pilot Officer John

‘| H. Barrett, Curling, Newfoundland,

died as the “Caribou” was torpedoed
last week. Two days ago it was
learned Sergeant Observer Andrew
Holmes, New Glasgow, missing for
several months as the result of air
operations over Germany, had been
officially announced as killed.

A tribute to Barrett. has been

    

   

‘| written by a fellow classmate, and
| appears elsewhere in the Gazette.

The announcement of the death of
Holmes came as a bombshell to the

    

| University yesterday morning. Born

in New Glasgow, son of the late Mr.
and Mrs. Andrew Holmes, he grad
(censored), and beer will be installed in one of the wings of
the building.

The building has been constructed
upon the remains of another edifice
Wuich was destroyed in an unknown
manner some years ago. The new
edifice has been modelled on the
soaring gracefulness of the Maori
church at Herring Cove and is finished in a delicate beige coloring. A
novel feature of the exterior finish
has been its tendency to change its
hue after every rainstorm, which
are frequent in (censored), and its
habit of cracking at the joints. (Here
two sentences are deleted).

Hot air, which has been piped in
from an unknown source, provides
the heating for the separate rooms,

D. G. A.C.
Meeting Held

A meeting of the D.G. A.C. was
held on Thursday, with. a fair attendance. The meeting was opened by
the President, Anne Mackley, and
the minutes of the last meeting were
read by Secretary Susan Morse, and
approved. Joan Woodbury and Pat
Hollis were nominated for ping-pong
managers and Pat Hollis was elected. It was announced that Monday
night would be Girls’ Night in the
Gym and all girls were urged to attend. Laura MacKenzie talked to
the girls about Badminton and Mary
MacKeigan moved that the Council
be asked that the badminton teams
be allowed to take trips as well as
the other teams of the college. The
motion was carried unanimously.
Mary MacKeigan moved that the
meeting adjourn.

ing one year here. One brother,

and one corner of the roof has been
left off. At one end of the edifice
a remarkable development in fireescapes has been constructed. This
has been extensively used by sleighing-parties and (censored) parties
and by men pushing wheelbarrows
without any apparent reason.

(One paragraph censored).

Due to the present uncertainty
about the future of the building, two
important meetings have had to be
eancelled. The Bundles-for-Britain
Ladies’ Committee of the Herring
Cove Maori Church, who were to
hold a bean supper and bridge party
in the east wing of the building
next (censored) have postponed their
pow-wow, as have the members of
the Dalhousie University Pops Orchestra under the direction of Brutus Rayne, step-brother of Rufus
Rayne and son of Mrs. Rayne from
Rangoon.

Payzant ComesThrough
As Juke Box Fails

Last Saturday night Shirreff Hall
laid bare its inmost secrets as Dal
gals held Open House. Special guests
were Dr. and Mrs. Bell. Music was
supplied for several minutes by the

Gym Store Juke Box, but unfortunately the excitement proved too
much for this faithful servant, and
it collapsed amid the deep sympathy
of all present. For the remainder
of the evening, music was supplied
through the courtesy of Mr. Peter
Payzant, who hurriedly supplied a
gramophone and brother which continued in excellent working order
throughout the party. Kissy Cameron manhandled the piano for a
sing-song, with vocal by Webby
MacDonald and the assembled
chorus. On motion of Miss McKean
the gathering adjourned, but since a
sizable profit was realized, inform
courtroom remained almost unbrok- | et time to make an engineer than to
en throughout. However, their Lord- | ™#ke a pilot and that the army
ships found it necessary to fine the alone cannot train electrical or meincorrigible Miss Clancy for tardi- | C@nical engineers.

ness, she having been late both at Mr. Wright expressed his feeling
the opening of the Court and after|that~ the present regulations do
the recess. It appears that fines | not control the situation. “Much
have no effect on this little’ miss, | thought,” he remarked, “has already
and it would seem that in the fu-| beem given to the question of adding

ture corporal punishment must of 'to them. If insufficient numbers of
necessity be inficted. | Students are found to be entering

| science training courses, it may in
time be necessary even to see that
enough are selected and sent in to
fill the vacancies.

“There are obligations attached to
university training. The student
J body must be available to active

service forces. An equal obligation
The case on appeal was Foley v. |

; | rests on those who have been found
Classique Coaches, Lorraine John- | physically unfit for military trainson K.C. and W. Reddin appeared | ing.
for the appellant; while Richard) «The demands of the army are
Hanna K.C. and Lawrence McLeod | preatest for mechanical and elec
acted for the Respondent. Reddin | tyjeq] engineers. There is less need

 

The fifth sittings of the Fall term
of the Supreme Moot Court of Dalhousie were held on Tuesday, Oct.
20th, before Their Lordships Turner,
L. C., J.; Allen and MacMillan, L.,

 

(Continued on page 2)

DIPO-e

(Continued on page 4)

Dalhousie Institute of
Public Opinion

 

Do You Think That The Japs Will Attack India?

At Dal as everywhere else opinion is divided on the Indian question.
Many students hesitated before giving an answer to this question, and
usually qualified their opinions by saying that much depended upon
Gandhi, and upon future developments in other theatres of war. A slight
majority, 48%, believe India will be attacked, while 48% do not think
that the Japs will risk an invasion. Another 9% remained undecided.

Do You Believe That The Library Should Be Kept Open
In The Evenings?

The great majority of students think the old policy of having the
library open in the evenings should be continued. Students from outside
Halifax were particularly outspoken in favour of having the library as a
place of study in the evenings, as were also Science students with many
labs. Of those questioned, 76% were in favour, and 16% were against
having the library open, while 8% remained undecided.

Which Is Your Favourite Gazette Feature?

“Campus Clippings” and “The Pig Sty” seem to be the favourites in
this year’s Gazette, each receiving 26% of all the votes. Next in popularity come “Sheer Hokum” with 16%, T-Square with 10%, and Literary
with 5%. One student said he read nothing but the editorials, and that
everything else was foolish. Several complained that the Pig Sty was

 
  
   

 

4 uated from High School there and | Milton, is now in a German prison | ed quarters say another Open House | too exclusive, and that they could never get in it, while others sadly exentered Dalhousie in 1939, complet- | camp. may be expected soon. claimed they couldn’t keep out of it.
ee 2 a =. ; .

i ’ : - eee Ee _
— f pe ; < "ast , > i
7, " rn _

3

.* = vt. 2

,
“ : ie:
( a . i
f ea de.) Et oy
- - LV aa

  

  

 

 

A
i 7

—
)
gt
ey

a

7 ; a gi)

aye
ing

dat Lge
i ~*~. eal

ie
Las + Le
oe Toe ee ae .
"la yf ms
at

Ole er Gt College Paper in America”
y column of THE GAZETTE are those of
> assumed that they represent the opinion of

GAZETTE STAFF  § .- m
nee ie a = aseees eees ees ‘4 a ocean .Bob McCleave
Peak ein ce eeeeveeeecee cesses Webster Macdonald

Reine en ey inn WA, Chields
Pica) hadciieceivitendsce Bd Morris
Pere CRNA oe tery 3 _-..Jdohn MacLean
Uae MCTm Rye se oka ee i poser
eer ein lick tw elas caiineweees eugene Merry
ee Donald Oland
TEM ereiatC et ores’... semes MacLaren
Pras Cott Nc. . Eileen Phinney
SMe ni ceite a... (436. Boris Fant

ff: Boris Funt, Joyce Harvey, Kay Cox, James Camp
ede ee ee eo 2 ee

Lawrence, Miss Goodman, Peter Donkin.

—

esti en ieee .
IDEALISM—A DEMOCRATIC RIGHT

like the old-time medicine show, is expected

ain'v 1e purpose of selling the idea. The candidate
ed to bring his plans into the fore with some pre-pollaigning and the voters are expected to listen to him
it his platform before they decide to vote for him or
-is a fundamental method in pre-election propaganda
ntial for the voters: what are they getting for

_ é

has been criticism on the campus about the small
franchise privilege in elections at Dalhousie for the
ears. This is a positive aspect of the question: why
tudents not show enough interest to vote? There is
r reflection in the lack of interest in elections. No orcan hope to live when its members show no spirit
ig. No controlling power can hope for effective

its means for such action are unfit.
riday only a small minority of the franchised memArts and Science Society voted for Senior woman’s
the Students’ Council. Thirty per cent only, and
d not heed the use of the polling booth in the Gym
an the students who did not exercise their right to vote
riticized actually, when they did not know what they were
g for, when neither candidate came out with a platform
ac tion, or even talked the election over with an appreciale number of students. |
he member of the Arts and Science faculty, unless he
the candidates, or felt himself under an obligation to exfranchise, simply did not bother to vote. Could any_any blame to his action?
all, there must be a reward to this form of human
x. No one likes to cast his vote on an unknown poli, and then see hi
nisms of which are not se
ork his candidate is doing. There has been much critivelled at the Dalhousie student body for its lack of
interest, but little criticism given to the more practical
of the question—the lack of voting idealism, or the provid
~~ it

r of a definite object at which voting is aimed.
There was a time when a student candidate really made

ie much of his candidacy: spoke to the franchise which would
_ vote or eppose his election,

and made a clear platform (even if
or was impractical anyway). Now
little of this among the minor candidates, and little
| among the major ones, even for such posts as society,
r student President.
ting now has the apparent aspect of a popularity

with little popularity even at that. Elections are listairs, and after elections campus surveys displays a suramount of student ignorance about the leaders of

_ Such was not followed out,
_ there is

activities, the degree of ignorance varying with the

ce of the activity. At least everybody knows the chief
r of the C.0.T.C., because there is a personal (or imaccording to which end of the O.T.C. you’re at)
anceship.
ere are, actually, very few people doing any work at all
ing this campus live. The Students’ Council has memwho open not their mouths from one end of the year to
» other: one is surprised to see they are actual tiving organs when meeting them on the campus.

|
4%

ersonality in elections at Dalhousie. The important side
he | ute right of the individual to know for what he
‘ing, sho

Moot Court circles, figured prominently in all summary trials. She
and Arky Vaughan were admonished
by the bench, and were separated by
judicial decree and told that the
court would scrutinize closely their
conduct while in the court.

_ Early in the afternoon, Mr. O’Connell entered the court room and was
almost immediately fined for sitting
beside the attractive Miss Clancy—
that fruitful source of fines — and
telling her in his rumbling Irish

ntinued from page 1)
considerable length in con1g the Bench, reflecting
was quite upset at seeing
vuty on the Bench. Lord
MacMillan commented that
acity is the basis of success,
din would be a wow. Mr.
also gave a lengthy con
son was very vehement

in
,

see him disappear into a governing body, the.
understood, nor where he can see ‘:

aor eg : P
an" ey
2 - z
_ Ss
7 | ie
f

i cae

7 F
ia
z

iL

. ie
“—ry

To get back to the medicine show idea, why not try a little |

not be allowed to remain in its quiescent state |

brogue of his latest escapades. This |

self-styled Romeo was given to un
derstand that the court room was

not the place for the Cape Breton

brand of romance. Later in the

rd-| afternoon Mr. O’Connell was repri
al. -—«| manded for delaying Miss Clancy for

al infringements | seventeen minutes outside the court

‘?¢ a
ae : ‘ eee
: Re a ‘= <r ; yee
Wwe = ' m. a bt
' ¥ ‘ fan tags \* ee ee ee
4, he (aa oe
. dee) b cla Te
Vi ae Ca} Ay Pela. ud ee
al ve x

“
et.

‘Toom and thus hindering her edu
"Oh daddy, I’m going to be married!"
“That will be a load off my Sweet Caps!"

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“ The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked"”

FARMERS’ MILK

Is Stimulating ...It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

> SS” ~~ ~~ i = ~~
==

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience
Write or call for Calendar or advice to

F. H. SEXTON, President.

A Word of
Welcome

Birks extend to newcomers and returning students
a cordial welcome to bring
their gift problems to
Birks.

Come and visit—even if
you have no problem.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

After any Show

or ,. a @

Before any Meal

| Think of ...

) The

Green Lantern

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Mathtatas a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

. Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing,
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

leading to degrees

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A, course, average about

$160 a year.
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a year

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men,

IT

ye PP dy,
; re YP Tae oe era
Bes a eres ah Ete
Ape er ae coe,

; eT

©
\
wy

ia

iF).
2 att, he a oe “ll es
— ca + : .
t / } 0 |
ist i‘ i Bite ie ute
aoe ~~
| | | Fe 3
"
i . " P

an
7

ee im ' f
fee
aes

ay ony : a> a ‘

; wt
Bin

. ee
acl ©

re
a # :
AUC
"eo, 
mc!

ie

— ee

~~ he
| ieee ,

Ne
;

SUNRISE
Far in the East the sun’s rays are peeping
Into the gloom of a starlit sky;
Ushering morn, the summons of daybreak,
Striking the knell of an even gone by.

Now warmth fills the air to nourish the living,
Who, seeing its light, face their labours anew;
The sun’s early glow has o’erwhelmed the darkness,
And rises to rest on its throne in the blue.

SUNSET
A solemn peace enhances earth and sky,
O’er distant points there.spreads a golden hue;
The sun is sinking to its even’s rest,
A wealth of shining colour o’er the blue.

The last dim rays are sinking ’neath the hills,
And slowly drains the heaven of its light,
A parting, brief, but wondrous to behold,
Its toil has ended—swiftly comes the night.

—J. MeL.

BOOK REVIEW

ANTHOLOGY OF CANADIAN POETRY.—Ralph Gustafson.
Pelican Books—$0.25

“To Suit Our Idle Days”.

It has been oft-repeated that the
little things of life most frequently
go unnoticed, Upon entering a bookStroe, our eyes focus not upon the
small paper-covered books on some
far table, but upon the fat, decorative volumes, prominently displayed,
bearing in gilt upon their noble
backs resounding titles. How much
we often miss in passing by these
little books!

There are some of us who can but
look at the larger books, and it is
then that we discover and condescend to read the little books. In
recent years these smaller and
cheaper books have been appearing
in large numbers and finding increasing favor. They have caught
within their compass the best that
could be found in larger books and
often assisted in the birth of some
literary brainchild. j

Of this latter species there appeared recently an anthology of
Canadian poetry, compiled by one of
Canada’s younger and lesser known
literary figures, Ralph Gustafson.
“What of that?”, you say. Stop and
think a moment! Can you call to
mind the names of ten Canadian
poets? Your hesitancy is characteristic ef most people and shows rather clearly how little most of us
know of Canada’s poets and their
poetry. For some it seems incredible that Canada has produced a
sufficient number of poets from
whose works an anthology could be
compiled, but Mr. Gustafson has
proved them wrong. His anthology
represents one of the first attempts
in sifting the mass of Canadian
poetry, measuring it “in terms of
vitality” and gathering it together
under one heading.

Mr. Gustarson was

porn near |

Sherbrooke, Que., in 1909, of Seand
anavian-English stock. He graduated
with an M.A. from Bishop’s University, Lennoxville, Que., winning
the Governor-General”’s Medal. He
then continued his studies for six
years in England. Among his works
are The Golden Chalice, Alfred The
Great (a play in verse), Poems
(1940), and Epithalamium in Time
of War (1941),

His Anthology presents the best
of Canadian poetry of the past
seventy-five years, during which
period Canadian poetry has passed
from infancy to vigorous youth.
There are some one hundred and
twenty-nine poems by fifty-six poets.
Among these may be found the
names of the better known Canadian
poets, Sir Charles G, D. Roberts,
Bliss Carman, Archibald Lampman,
Marjorie Pickthall, and such less
familiar names as those of Arthur
S. Bourinot, Alan Creighton, Lloyd
Roberts, and A. M. Klein.

Unlike some anthologies, no common quality pervades this anthology
unless it is the love of homeland
which enriches many of the poems it
contains. It is a timely book. Many
of the poems in it have been born
of the passion aroused by the conflict of arms and creeds which spans
the world today. Of this group may
be mentioned Sir Charles Ge BR
Roberts’ “Canada Speaks of Britain”
and Ven. Archdeacon F. G. Scott’s
“The Airmen”, Perhaps the most
gripping of the poems concerning
the present world chaos in A. M.
Klein’s “Design For Medieval Tapestry”, which presents a vivid, burn
‘ing picture of the trials of the

Hebrew race in the war-scorched
lands of Europe in this or other
days. One pregnant line stands out
as the core of the poem, “How long,
O Lord, will Israel’s heart be riven ?”

Love of nature is the theme of a
number of the poems. Wilfred
Campbell’s “Indian Summer”, Bliss
Carman’s “A Bluebird in March”,
and A. J. M. Smith’s “The Lonely
Land”, may be included in this
group.

Life and death, truth and the pursuit of happiness, war and love,
those ageless, never-answered queries with which man has wrestled
since time immemorial, all find a
place in this little book. It is the
record of many able pens and while
it seems to be a monument raised
to the poets of that part of Canada
which lies Hast of the prairies, the
growth of Canada which found the

West yet a virgin land when Eastern |

Canada was well on the road of
progress and development, may explain why the limelight falls on the
East. If this fact in itself may
Seem to be a defect, the poetry

erases it, for it is truely “all- .

Canadian.”

Nova Scotia is represented by such
able sons as Charles Bruce, George
Frederick Cameron; Alan Creighton,
and Kenneth Leslie. The latter is a
graduate of Dalhousie, something of
which we may be justly proud.

The verse itself present a variety
of forms, from octosyllabic couplets
to more modern and intricate forms
of versification in which the absence
of capitals at the beginnings of lines
and the lack of punctuation at the
ends make some of us wonder
(especially those of us who have no
ear for internal rhythm), if it is
poetry at all. Does not poetry, we
ask, consist of symmetrically arranged rows of words, having at
their beginnings capital letters and
at their ends punctuation marks,
rhyming usually in pairs, sometimes
not at all, and containing, often as
a tangled skein, something which has
been forced from its author by the
press of emotions? Perhaps after

alone. Breaking with tradition is
often a painful operation indeed.

In conclusion it may be said that
this little book is a most profitable
investment, and the pleasure to be
got from reading it bears no relation to its cost and that it should
aid in a growing realization that
there is Canadian poetry well worth
reading.

—L. W. C.
ew
NONAMAKER ~ GRAHAM

A great deal of interest will be
shown in the marriage of Vivian
Mae, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Karle Graham, York St., to Dr. E.
Paul Nonamaker, son of Rev. and
Mrs. E. V. Nonamaker of Mahone
Bay, which took place in Toronto,
Sept. 80th. The bride was attired
in a teal blue suit trimmed with grey
squirrel, matching hat and navy blue
accessories. She was attended by
Mrs. Gordon MacKinnon, sister of
the groom. Both Flying Officer and
Mrs, Nonamaker attended Dalhousie,
the groom graduating in medicine
in the spring of 1942. He is also
@ member of the Phi Rho Sigma
Fraternity and is now attached to
the R.C.A.F. The couple are at
present residing in Sydney, N. S.

v

all poetry does not consist of words _,

RY =.

a

 
    
 
 
 
    
    
   
   
    
   
       
  
  
   
  

  
 

   

1 tact fe vividly impressed on one
by the many types of bewildered in
ge r ral, the frosh may be spotted by
¢ ¢ ir ever present attitude suggesting vast stores of knowledge and
ersonality. They are going to conbute a great deal to Dalhousie.

Oi them oe 8 @

es LEE a word. of eheouragement

Te ratiies, are ‘seen emerging av the
_ classrooms of the more elementary
_ subjects such as: Physics 1, Mathe- matics 1, Latin 1,and last, but not
least, English 1.
‘To these unitiated seekers of wisi dom, many minor points should be
_. made clear. These classes are un-- doubtedly the most unfathomable
hours which you have ever spent.
_ Do not despair. Have a stout heart.
- For years these classes have beeen
so elementary that at Christmas
when the examinations are over,
‘many, ever so many, can stand it no
- longer and persuade themselves to
_ drop the time wasting pastimes.
Another type of frosh termite is
the Transplanted High School student. He is amazed to find how
simple life at the big university is
- as compared to that of his home
- town high school. How easy it is to
fool the professors.. How easy it is
to come day after day with absolutely no preparation on the class
work. These professors must be very
stupid. They never pay any attention to anyone who doesn’t ask for
it. Gee’, high school should have
/ een like this college life . . . Great
| = stuff... BROTHER, WAKE UP!!!
“Note. It is the above mentioned
--- {ndividual who -loudly asserts the
examinations are never made up on
the work of the term. He may be
_ spotted readily in the examination
i _Teom | by a pronounced blank look.
There are countless others who
- deserve honorable mention including
ae the true student who waits in the
ss itine-up, to get a seat in the library
| -—«, .. . Time or space does not permit
further analysis of these.
It would be a crime to wind up
-. any attempt at this puzzling and
_ onfusing subject without taking a
slight peek into the Gym store and
_. headquarters of the many subversive
elements. As one watches from a
a, point of vantage, the parasites who

 

  
 
   
 
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
  
   
   
     
  
  
  

Through The

Bob Graves is off again... This
time it is Frannie Webster. Guess
the freshettes can’t stand up to
} . - Bob’s super terrific “you are going

to like me” technique.
ae x x #

ote: Ann Mackley’s been very moody

= bre lately. Ever since “Frenchie” went
away. It certainly must keep her
‘4 di . busy trying to watch him; first
$a. _ Acadia, then Dalhousie and now

og Mount Allison.

e 1

7%

   
  
   
    
    
   
    
     
         
  
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   

* *

“General” Art Heartz and Jean
 Yanchak, the Montreal flash, are
, a giving the gossips more’ gust for
their romance-rumoring-mongering
Wie, and,
; * OR ¥*
rt ui p Initiation boss Smith seems rather
_ proud of his Kay freshette. He real‘ ly pulled her under- his wings or, is
it his horns. —
* * *

Sousi Cameron, better known as
“Puffin” to the med school, is being
patriotic by using her bicycle for
commutation. It’s going to be fatal
it clothes are rationed because she
sh spends more of her time on the
ground than she does on the bike.
| 3 Hap py landings, Tesale,
ee a
Thanksgiving = come and gone
- _ but the effects evidently haven’t
rorr n off yet. Johnnie MacLellan is
g 8 still na daze. We wonder if he

€ a)

tion in the store is the much discuss
HOU NUMAN ULNA ANAT QAMAALUUAESAASC AAU

STM UU

| officers. Good luck Alec. Let’s have

Oo Pk

(The Dalhousie Organ of
Puerile Enigmas)

 

dwell there offer much to the impression. Good and bad... There
are the noisy and the quiet. There
are the old timer and the frosh.
There are always Roy and his able
staff ...A few observations will be
listed, np
Possibly the most evident attrac
   

‘Always well-up on the Current
song -hits of the Nation, we have
spent the week attempting to judge
the effects on the morals of Dallians
of a recent musical novelty highly
popular during the last few days.

    
  
  
   
  
    
 

 

 
   
  

ed and antique Juke Box. In spite
of strenuous remarks in the past to
the contrary, this maze of worn out
machinery continues to provide the
students half value in return for
their slugs and nickels. (To say
nothing of the copper collections
made famous and familiar by Irma
M.)

Of the parasites and transients
much could but will not be said.
There is the meek one who silently
slips by the door and down the steps
into the store. He waits his chance
and skilfully slides into a standing
position, in the corner under the
stairs, lest he be in any one’s way.
He will wait then for quite some
time daring to hope for service at
the hands of the overworked coffeesluggers. Many times, rather than
speak up, he will allow Roy to pass.
After “what seems like an eternity”
unquote, his big moment arrived.
With a squeaky voice he or she inquire the market, acteptable, common price on second hand Latin 1
grammars. On obtaining their information, they order a bottle of
milk, (only five cents, pop is seven),
and depart.

The glamor-goils from all the
small towns, Judique to Halifax, are
there in force. They are trying to
make impressions and above all they
are trying to see how their big
sisters, who have been through the
mill, conduct themselves. She learns
rapidly that the tobacco weed for
which her mother had no use, is an
essential part of successful stool
‘straddling. It is very humorous to
note the many attempts at casual,
nonchalant smoking. In connection
with these young creatures without
which it has been said, no campus
can survive.???2 They learn the
very obvious fact that there should
be enough lipstick on one’s face to
leave at least a coating of one sixteenth of an inch on all drinking
straws.

On the whole, the cross section of
the campus is typical of former
years. Possibly there is a little more

spirit and zip in this year’s flock.
Let us hope so. You may throw
those boots now.

The Question: Are YOU kind to
your Web-Footed Friends?

   
  
 

The Answers:

  
  
  

ing Halifax Herald: After all I speak
to you don’t I? What more could
you ask? (Which should teach us
not to stick our neck out).

Rabid Foldwell, of whom we have
spoken before, and will not bore you
with the details: Well, it’s the
marching song of the SCM, and as
an ardent SCM Marcher, I naturally
follow closely the high principles set
by that inspiring organization to

 
   

 
  

warm and hearty welcome...

Gabe Shortz, English Obscura,
Scholastica Latinis, ob sit: I dunno,
I haven’t time now. I’ve just been
drafted into the OCT, and I gotta
run down and see if I can’t get a
commission as Official OTC Philosopher. (Dashes off, singing, Oh, ’m
in the OTC, I’m in the OTC, da dad
dada dada, I’m in the OTC.)

  
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
  
 

Ruthless Janes, Music App. (as in
appropriate) 7, 10, and 14, Juke Box
8 and 9: Where did you hear that
horrible thing? Isn’t it terrible?
It violates all the principles of Musieal Appreciation, don’t you think?
Let’s start a campaign to stamp it
out. (Kid, if this doesn’t kill it,
nothing will).

Prof. R. A. MacKay: The influence
of Hobbes upon the moral turptitude
of his age should not be underrated
while to put it another way, what is
sovereignty? (We knew those Poli
Se. notes would turn up somewhere.
We lose more darn notes that way).

     
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  

Of late it has been viciously rumored about the campus that the
Medicos and their. doings have been
conspiciously ignored in this noble
sheet. Such a state of affairs is obviously not to be tolerated and this
column has the single avowed purpose of showing the sawbones that
they have here a true friend. It

shall never be said that you have
been hiding your bright lights under
a bushel. So, without further adooo,
we commence to begin to seed our

“Moose” MacLeod was in evidence | sperms of suspicion and ill-will.
at the Open House at the Hall on * oe *

Saturday night. He seemed to be) jt has been reported that Charlie
using his Brockville training in ob-| had a very pleasant thanksgiving
servation to good advantage. He did| weekend at home, or perhaps at

have nee pip up on “Lightning” | home is not quite correct. But then,
though: Maybe, if the freshettes!| tho Restigouche Hotel is not so far

had oe he was in town they! from Bathurst and it was indeed a
wouldn’t have been so keen on ask-| fortunate coincidence that Bob In
ing the Anzacs. gram should happen to be celebrati ee

Keyhole... i

ing, (and no other word will do), his
“Webby” MacDonald certainly liv-| nuptials that same weekend.
ened the party with his French or, k & #

was is Spanish? . . ‘Boogie Woogie’
Eddie Weir did his share too. His
licks were plenty hot.

+ a *

Anyone willing to tutor Donald
“Pansy” Rice, apply to the Biology
students. They are quite prepared
to take up a collection for this purpose in order that they might have-a
chance to get some work done in

At this time, we extend our deepest sympathy to A. K. who lately
has been finding some difficulties in
the. transportation system. Too bad
the Colonel had to choose this time
to move his entourage. But then,
Lex, it’s so peaceful in the country
and particularly in the direction of
St. Margaret’s Bay. We understand
however that the situation is soon to

class. : be remedied with their return to the
Alec. “J” MacIntosh, that Dal-| city.

housian of great fame and reknown * ® *
who graduated last year has return-| And Pottle has been wandering
ed to the campus. He is now known | around these past few weeks wearto his friends and foes alike as “Q-| ing a beautific smile and sporting a
BOAT MACINTOSH” and, is the| brand new French accent. It is veree
pride of the King’s navy school for| luckee the boat from St. Pierre got
| through, Clarence. Yes?
first divs. over there... — 5 x o® ,
Roi i We do not want the first year
The Major: “Are you going to} students to feel neglected in this
lunch, MacAskill?” ‘column. There is a long winter
MacAskill: “I think I'd like to,| ahead. Furthermore, their activities
Sir.” lately have been rather suppressed.

R. J. McReek, Ed Gazoot, Major-|
whose weekly meetings I extend al.

| the local dailies.

   

A meeting of the Horizontal Club
will be held at Wolfville October 31.
The President, G. A. Bennett will
preside from under the table.

* x *

“Second Looey” Mussett is in the
news again. There have been two
dances already this term and “Shorty” has not attended either; perhaps
he can find a date for the next one.

* *%

Note—Andy Eisenhauer (from
Lunenburg) would like to meet some
nice girl from Shirreff Hall—any
girl interested please get in touch
with Andy without delay.

* * *

Congratulations to Engineers for
beating Freshmen in Inter Fac due

_to stellar playing of Hagen, Graham

and Burgess.
ae a co

ASK :-—

“Alky” Hull who got a sweet bust

in the mouth at Norman’s this summer.

‘ * x

Graham Bennett who takes Norrie
out when he is home studying,

* * mR

Bill Hagen why he’s so anxious to
go down to that hall every Tuesday
night.

* x *

Bruce Bauld why it took him two
hours to crawl out of a small gully
one night at Surveying Camp.

ms *x* *

Keith MacLellan what blond freshette he took to the show the other
night, and why?

* * *

Mackie Campbell what young English blond gave up Physics so she
could go out with him Thursday
night.

eo * *

Tommy McKim who threw what
out of which window of what cabin
in Hubbard’s that caused 10 people
to be killed in the rush to catch it
before it fell.

Bedsyde Manor

. “Medicoe”

 

This is due no doubt to the forthcoming quiz in anatomy.
* * %

“We'll rant and We’ll roar like
true Newfoundlanders”. Both MacDonald and Ritchie have adopted this
as their theme song. These gentlemen seem to be under the influence
of that famous personage, Virulent
Vera, the pride of Codfish Bay. May
the best man...

* % %

FOUN D—asleep—with a Femur in

his hand—(we mean of course a dis
| articulated one) was none other than

Roy Fanjoy. Such goings on for a
first. year man.
why he did not get in until five a.m.
the previous night should leave the
young lady’s name at the editor’s
office.

cond

eet

Every now and then we find ourselves speculating pleasantly on
various little items to be found in
For instance the
following:

A recent survey has gathered data
to show that upwards of fifty thousand girls have returned to cotton-top
hose. When at its height, this investigation must have proven exceptionally interesting.

 

Jerry
Naugler’s

Orchestra

CO

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032

POLL LTOLOYLEOwWDYXvOIOO I

 

’Fader’s Drug Stores /

) HALIFAX

Anyone knowing |

 

 

  

   
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

     
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
    
     
     
     
   
   
   
   
    

“Ice-cold Coca-Cola is more than thirstquenching. Yes siree. It’s refreshing. There’s
an art in its making. There’s know-how in its
production. The only thing like Coca-Cola is

Coca-Cola itself. Nobody else can duplicate it.”

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

HALIFAX
653

DALHOUSIANS ...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES

KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

 

THE NATIONAL FISH Co.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

CAPITOL
*

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“ CAIRO ”
‘with
JEANETTE MACDONALD
ROBERT YOUNG

*

29 COBURG ROAD

Nova Scotia )

 

135 HOLLIS STREET
|
|

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“Berlin Correspondent”

*

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

“It Happened to One Man”
“Double Trouble”

PAULETTE GODDARD
FRED MACMURRAY

ee ee

“Forest Ranger’

ORPHEUS
*

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
/SHE’S IN THE ARMY NOW”
“GHOST TOWN LAW”

CASINO
*

TARTING OCTOBER 24th
FOR A WEEK

 

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“BUSSES ROAR” |

and |

“WEST OF CIMARRON”

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday
“MISS ANNIE ROONEY”
“SPY SHIP”

George Formby

i)

“It Turned Out
Nice Again ”’

Wednesday and Thursday
“GO WEST YOUNG LADY”
“FRIENDLY ENEMIES”

Friday and Saturday
“IN THIS OUR LIFE”
DUDES ARE PRETTY PEOPLE

*

 

 

 
   

   

TVVIDUAN ARES INDUS TS

-O-SCOPE

by ED MORRIS | |

INTLNIONIOONSAEN HEY

iN NANA

E pting the present company, of course, have you ever
— fallen’ e with a horse? It’s a dreadful malady. I’ve gone

_ slightly daffy over a filly that sashays around Point Pleasant
Park. Her name is “Speed Boat”, which is no gag, and she has
claustrophobia, which is no gag. When they try to look her

perfect sixteen frame into one of those equine voting booths
at yhich are affectionately referred to as stalls, she nearly goes

- nuts trying to escape. Every time she enters the barn, or the

___horse-house, or the stall, or whatever they call it, she acts as

A though someone had offered her a seat on a waffle iron.

ae _ Unfortunately, her agility is frequently replaced by a

definite fixiation in the open air. Honest to gosh, there’s

nothing quite so stupid as sitting six feet above ground while

__. some mug keeps yelling, “Come on, Speed Boat!” If you don’t
believe me, try horseback riding yourself. It’s bound to get

- you—in the end.

My faith in humanity is not destroyed simply because “Speed Boat’
is a misnomer, for I find that the sporting digest of the past six months
_ shows plenty signs of activity. The world, somewhat engrossed with
other tasks, has curtly refused to pay any attention. In Sweden, between
July and September, Mr. Gunder Haegg broke world’s running records at
1,500 metres, one mile, 2,000 metres, 3,000 metres, and two miles,

And an Ohio State University freshman swam to new records in the
440 yards and 880 yards, free style, in two days. And Emerson McKenzie
broke the world’s javelin throw mark with a mighty heave of 263 feet,
___ 2% inches on July 12. Since then he has broken it five times more, just
_ to prove that his first try was not all luck. If only “Speed Boat” would

read the papers!

We were all shocked with the news of the sudden death of Rev.
“Charlie” Burke in Newfoundland last Friday. He was a fine sportsman
in every sense of the word. Steadiness and dependability were the char
acteristics that marked him on both the playing field and in his chosen

_ life work. Perhaps the most significant of his traits was the readiness

_ with which others approached him and the inspirational quality of his

student efforts. That is the highest compliment one student can pay to

another. He was a true friend and a fine student and we shall miss his
presence.

i The football teams will swing back into action next week after an

embarrassing lay-off for a two-week stretch. Two games in three days to

_ Start off the season, followed by a fortnight’s vacation without pay, is no

c.. ‘way to treat a perfectly decent squad. Don’t take my word for it, but I

would suggest that more mental effort and less expulsion of guff be
directed toward the planning of a sane and equitable schedule in future
years,

And while I’m on the subject of football it may not be out of place
to remark on the friendly spirit that prevailed in both our games to date.
The Dal stands, both at Studley and at the Navy League Recreation
Centre, were sprinkled with a goodly number of uniforms, as ex-students

   

ars.

 

eae

ie
| _- returned to cheer their teams. Major Hogan set an example that many
; another Dalhousian—student and professor—might well follow. There is
i no conflict between football games, conducted as they are in this area,
___ and our natural preoccupation with the issues of war and victory.

‘he College sportsmen have been in the vanguard of battle before. If you
don’t believe me, take a look at the plaque to the left of the Gym doors.

Dr. John R. Mott
To Speak On Sunday

On Sunday, October 25, Dalhousie
students will have the opportunity
to hear one of the greatest leaders
of the Christian Church today, in the
person of Dr. John R. Mott. He will
speak to a meeting of students and
city young people in St. Andrew’s
Hall at 4 p.m. His subject will be
“The Christian Challenge to Youth”.
The meeting is sponsored jointly by
the Student Christian Movement and
the Christian Youth Federation.

Dr. Mott was born in Iowa, studied
at Cornell, and has been vitally interested in students ever since. He
has written numerous books, most of
which have been translated into several languages,

a
x

 

SELECTIVE SERVICE—

; (Continued from page 1)

| for civil, chemical, and mining en| ‘\gineers.”
i. In answer to a question, Mr.
_ Wright stressed that in order to
avoid conflict caused by armed
__. forces and industry separately selecting personnel, both these functions would shortly be assigned to
the Selective Service Bureau. If the
bureau found that a man could be
~~ more valuable to industry than to
_ the army he would be sent back to
| his job and possibly not permitted
to leave it.

“You should be interested,” Mr.
Wright continued, “in knowing the
controls which are-applicable in general to citizens of Canada under the
_ National Selective Service legisla| tion. I would like you to know some
_ of the outstanding features so that
__- you may realize that certain restric
tive features apply to every citizen
In conclusion, Mr. Wright said:

“In any event I think you can look

_ forward to less disturbing conditions

-hext spring when the time comes to
consider what you are going to do
after graduation.”

  
    
 
   

     
    
 
   
  
   
   
   
      
  
 
 
 
    
 

F

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED
O
DRUGGISTS

 

   

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

O

THE

| FLOWER SHOP
37 BLOWERS STREET

Phone B-7133

     
      

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

      
     
   
 

 

    
  
   
  
 
 

    

|For Sporting

_ | Goods of

_ | Finest Quality

f and a Complete
Music Service

Call on

7.30 to 9.30

   
  
  

  

| | PIANOS ~ CHURCH ORGANS
_ | SHEET MUSIC - RECORDS
| MUSIC SUPPLIES

   

Enter Any Day

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
   

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of
the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years.

Tuition counts from date of Registration

“Caribou” Victim - A
Former Dal Student

(Editor: Pilot Officer John
Hamilton Barrett, a graduate
with a Chemistry Major of last
year’s class, was killed in the
ruthless sinking of the “Caribou”.
A fellow student offers the following appreciation. )

“And that inverted bowl they
call the sky,
Whereunder crawling coop’d we
live and die,
Lift not your hands to it for
help—for it
As impotent moves as
ro) a Sag
—The Rubayait LXXII.

To the hearts of all Newfoundlanders this week blew a cold wind
And Dalhousie paused to note
that one of her sons was with us
no more. Johnny Barrett — the
Chem Lab knew him, the Gym
stere heard his laugh and even
today’s undergraduates have
danced to the music of his twinkling fingers.

John was born on February 18,
1922, in Curling, a quiet west
coast Newfoundland village, hugging the Long Range mountains.
His youth was spent boating in
the Bay of Islands, logging on
the’ Humber River and studying.
Precocious in every way, John
entered Grade XI at Prince of
Wales College in St. John’s at the
tender age of 14. Combining intercollegiate basketball with. his
studies, he was suecessful in both
and in the final examinations his
name stood third for the Island
of Newfoundland.

No graduate of Memorial College can fail to remember poignantly the years when John left
his mark. A household word was
the name of good old John Humber Barratt as we called him. On
the gym floor, at the piano, on
the river, at the college hikes, in
the examination room—it was all
one. His brilliance earned him
universal distinction. Too easygoing to work hard; too devilmay-care to worry, he would
rather compose a love song than
write an English theme. It is
typical that the Memorial College
year book placed after his name
the following epigram, “Let us
be happy and live within our
means even if we havt to borrow
to do it.” And even members of
the faculty were often the butt
of his excellent practical jokes.
When I say that at Dal John was
comparatively quiet, Dalhousians
im general and Pine Hill boys in
particular may realize how his
talents lay at Memorial College.

Erstwhile instructor in Chemistry, popular pianist with the
Dal orchestra, his talent found
expression at Dalhousie. John
Henry (how we loved to play
with that middle name) had just
turned 19 when, in May 1941, he
appeared on the stage at Convocation and received a B.Sc. with
major in Chemistry. He had
earned it, toiling on the roads of
Corner Brook and Halifax, working at surveying camp at St.
George’s and Stephenville in
Newfoundland. His father is a
retired Justice of the Peace in
Curling, his mother a _ talented
Scottish poetess. He had inherited much from them. There was
much promise.

After Dalhousie Barrett offered
his keen brain and splendid physique in the service of Canada,
choosing the Royal Canadian Air
Force as his medium. It was last
month that John received his
wings: at Brantford, Ontario, and
was commissioned Pilot Officer,
the youngest in his class, for he
was only 20. And it was ‘last
month that he married Marjorie
Watkins of Calgary.

He, too, had hopes of a peaceful world and a happy future, and
as he travelled across Canada to
a fatal rendezvous, only happiness lay ahead. To see his family, his friends, to spend his
honeymoon amid the lovely scenes
of his boyhood. His bride, for she
is hardly more than a bride, survives him today, snatched from
the cold waters of Cabot Strait.
For her, for Mr. and Mrs. Barrett, for Art and David and Rose
Barrett—sympathy seems inadequate. —A. W.

you

 

  
 
      

   

Tuition $5 per month

  
     
   
  
    
     
     

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   
    

A LIFE OF SERVICE

Dalhousie mourns the death in
St. John’s, Newfoundland, of Rev.
Charles E. Burke, a distinguished
graduate of the university. Born in
Loggieville, N. B., in 1912, his had
been a full and varied life. At an
early age he went to work with the
Loggie Construction Company, and
the knowledge acquired there he put
to good service in later years when,
as student missionary worker at
Larder Lake, Ontario, he bent his efforts towards the construction of a
new church and manse, largely with
his own hands,

Determined to enter the ministry, |
he went to Mount Allison Academy
and Mount Allison University, from
which he graduated in 1937 with
honors. Two years later he graduated from Pine Hill Divinity Hall
and was ordained at Sackville, N. B.,
in 1939. A year in mission work
among the coastal villages of Newfoundland was interspersed with his
studies. While traveling by boat to
a small outport his craft was wrecked and he was forced to spend four
days in winter weather upon a small
island without food.

In December, 1941, he resigned his
charge as pastor of Oxford Street
United Church in Halifax to go to
Newfoundland with the Y.M.C. A.
War Services unit. He had served
for fifteen months as spiritual advisor to men of the Canadian fighting services stationed there when
his sudden death came.

During his college years he was a
valued member of track and football
teams at Mount Allison and Dalhousie. He continued to play with the
Dalhousie Tigers until his departure
for Newfoundland. Always a keen
sportsman, he brought to the game
a ready spirit and a valuable skill.
Dalhousie students and faculty will
mourn his sudden death as the loss
of a devoted student and a fine man.
Service, regardless of race or creed
or color, was the guiding motive of
his career. Measured in those terms
his life was fruitful and rich.

The Dalhousie Gazette, on behalf
of Dalhousie students and faculty,
unite with his countless friends in
expressing heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the late Rev. Charles E.
Burke.

    

  
   

  
 
 
  
  

   
 
  
   
    
    
   
 
    
  
  
    

 

Try them
in the
Classroom!

The TURQUOISE drawing pencil makes
smooth, clean black lines or shading without
undue pressure.

That is why it is the choice of art and
manual training teachers, architects,
engineers and business men.

The composition of the lead is such that
the pencil writes smoothly, and the super
binding process binds wood and lead together, giving greater strength to the point.

; . . The same qualities which make
TURQUOISE so popular in technical use,
makes it the ideal pencil for the classroom.
Whether for drawing, making notes or

marking test or examination papers,
TURQUOISE is your best choice.

Foye
‘TURQUOISE

Sf same Bo |
DRAWING PENCILS

JACK MITCHELL’S

BARBER SHOP

Four Experienced Barbers ROSEDALE NURSERIES

Y.M.C. A. Building - B-7530
381 Baarrington Street
31 Spring Garden Road — B-6440
We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

 

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

564%, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

 

  
  

Fine Fon Fall—

PLAN ELS!

ITH college men flannel is still a topranking. favourite. Tip Top Tailors is
showing, appropriately enough, a wide
selection of beautifully-woven flannels in
popular colors and patterns—your choice
tailored to your measure. Drop in today and
see these fine flannels—feel them, too. They
tell their own story of quality.

‘292

TAILORED-TO-MEASURE

Hundreds of
patterns to
choose from

418-20 Barrington St

106 each

less in quantities

October 23, 1942

“SURE I'M HAPPY !”

“Picobac tastes so good—is such
a mild, cool, sweet smoke-—it helps a
man to concentrate while he’s working
and to relax when he’s through. Be
happy with Picobac’’.

~ Picobac

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

 

 

   

EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED, TORONTO

 

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

B-9754

We Cater to Collegians
ee

 

  
  

 
