ss ly

   
   
  
  
 

_ Money out of a fool.
fool).

7
*
ate ear a = :

to you.

1 ee

AMPUS
LIPPINGS
by EUGENE MERRY

HMA ANA
_ Thought of the week: Money

   

doesn’t make a fool out of girl

nearly as often as a girl makes
(Take heed,

* * &

The Ubyssey tells us that the Uni
versity of British Columbia students

may have an opportunity to take
Air Force training, that is, if plans

are acceptable to a university com
mittee. Just think, girls (freshettes
included) if there were Air Cadets

here you might get a plane ride,

“where as it is now the best you can
hope for is to ride in an O.T.C haversack like a pappoose. (This is
especially acceptable to war plans,
as no gas is used.)

* * *

_ Seven ages of woman: Infant,
little miss, young lady, young lady,

young lady, younger lady, still
younger lady.—The Brunswickian.

* * *

Mary. had a little watch,
She swallowed it one day;
The doctor gave her castor oil
To pass the time away.
The castor oil refused to work,
The time refused to pass,

| So if you want to see the time

Just look up Mary’s uncle,
He’s got a watch, too.
—Princeton Tiger.

_ There’s the love of a beautiful maid,

There’s the love of a staunch, true
man,

There’s the love of a baby that’s unafraid;

These have been time began.

But the most beautiful love of all,

Even greater than that of mother,

Is that infinite, tender, passionate

love
Of one dead drunk for another!
Lory —Ubyssey.
* * ok ;
Eyes Front.

Passenger: “What are you slowing up for?”

Driver: “Thought I heard the lady
say ‘stop’, sir.”

Passenger: “She wasn’t speaking
Drive on.”—McGill Daily.

* * 5

Freshman: “I can’t get along with
my girl friend. All she does is ignore me.” |

Senior: “Ignore you?”

Freshman: “Yes, and if there is

- anything I dislike, it is ignorarice.”

 

‘ ‘S-abeutetation To

S. C. M. Fall Camp

Wohi cin tec to S.C. M.. Fall
Camp will be by bus or train. Leave
on the 5.30 or 6.20 train at the depot, getting off at Windsor Junction, or take a six o’clock train from

Dartmouth to Waverley.

“By bus: A Pender’s bus will take

4 you to Bedford. They leave every
_ hour. There is an Acadia Coach bus

to Waverley at 1.30 in the after“noon.

i ae A peesiol note to C.0.T.C, members:

     
   
    

j i a
Ne For further information fa in
an ‘ touch wit ae Firth, Pine Hill

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 16, 1942

Lawyers Fancy Frances sClancy Students To

Femme Forms Wrench
Judicial Bench

By W. R. LAWRENCE

The third sittings of the Supreme
Moot Court of Dalhousie were held
Friday, Oct. 9th, before Their Lordships, MacMillan, Forbes and LeMoine.

The case on appeal was Maxine
vs. The Halifax Bugle and Boney,
an action for libel. Counsel for the
appellant were Charles O’Connell,
K.C., and Frances Clancy, while
Mary Kinley, K.C., and William
Proudfoot appeared for the respondents, Lord Chief Justice MacMillan, who is renowned for his sedateness and his profound knowledge of
the law, presided over the Court
with a stern hand; and although at
times he was a source of discomfort
to the counsel, he was instrumental
in seeing that true justice was carried out. Mr. Proudfoot was complimented by the Court for his
opening address.

Miss Clancy was also complimented for her dulcet panegyric to the
Bench. ‘This was Miss Clancy’s second appearance as junior counsel, a
fact for which she deserves the
highest commendation. Although a
member of the so-called weaker sex,
this winsome‘lass has demonstrated
often that she can more than hold
her own with the male members of
her profession in matters pertaining
to work and study.

Mr. O’Connell ably presented the
ease for his client, but, after careful review of the law, Their Lordships were forced to decide the case
in favor of the respondents. Miss
Kinley’s lucid presentation of her
client’s case was very worthy of a
member of her sex.

Towards the end of the case, the
solemnity and decorum of the court
room was rudely shattered by the
sudden appearance of W. Kapak.
This gentleman (?), his midriff exposed, entered the courtroom in a
state of dishabille and dropped several golf balls on the floor. In a
summary trial he was convicted and
fined.

Delta Gamma Officers
Elected; Open House
On Saturday Night

Tuesday evening the first meeting
of Delta Gama for the season was
held at Shirreff Hall with a fairly
large attendance. President Mary
Boswell opened the meeting with a
brief address. Anne Mackley read
the minutes of the last meeting,
following which an election was
held. Susan Morse is now SecretaryTreasurer and Peggy Hyland, by
acclamation, again Debating Manager.

Ruth James, Gerry White and
Jean Vaughn were elected as representatives of the Senior, Junior and
Sophomore classes respectively.

Mary Boswell, with the assistance
of the various managers, outlined
the various activities of the year, including tennis, badminton and ground
hockey. Miss MacKeen gaye an address on war work and the various
ways the co-eds can be of assistance.

There will be an Open House at
Shirreff Hall on Saturday evening. Everyone is invited. Come
on over and make this a success.

 

 

Win Commissions

Among recent graduates from the
Officers’ Training School, Brockville,
were R. G. “Bob” Forbes, Denmark,
N. S., and A. S. €. “Stew” Sutherland, New Glasgow, N. S. Lieutenant Sutherland received his degree
of B.Com from Dal last May; while
Lieutenant Forbes would have entered his Senior year this fall, but,
like many other Dal and King’smen,
preferred to enter His Majesty’s
Service. Both men were well known
to students of Dal and King’s, particularly the latter university, of
which Forbes was a member, and
Sutherland a resident for several
years.

Bright Future For
Dal Swingsters Seen
As Practices Begin

“T don’t mind telling you that the
Dal Band is really gonna be good
this year—treally good,” said Manager “Hank” Johnson in an exclusive interview for the Gazette Wednesday. Relaxing for the moment
before the admiring patrons of
Roy’s, Mr. Johnson inspired everyone with a sense of his calm canfidence, as he quietly but firmly predicted “it will be the best band Dal
has seen in at least four years.”

“Hank” promised the band, with
two practices a week scheduled, will
be ready for its first performance at
the next football game. (The disgruntled Commerceman in the background who murmured “ear-muffs
will be worn” was properly ignored).

Besides Manager Johnson, who
doubles on the tenor sax, the personnel of the Band is as follows:
Royce Mallam, director manager; G.
Lough, D. Matheson, clarinets; J.
Darcey, alto horn; G. Hart, Mac
Swain, P. Herschorn, trumpets; T.
Vaughan, trombone; T. Wilansky,
tenor horn; C. “Alky’” Hall, snare
drum; L, Mitchell, bass drum; C.
Little, W. Terris, baritone horns;
and Eugene Merry, alto sax.

An added feature of Tuesday’s
practice, which unfortunately cannot be assured for public performance, was Major Hogan’s expert
pinch-hitting on the bass drum. In
spite of the already good-sized membership,

Sodales Hold
First Meeting

Eileen Mader was elected vicepresident, and Scott Gordon secretary-treasurer at the first meeting
of Sodales debating society held
yesterday noon in Room 3, Arts
building.

Several frosh were present at the
gathering, over which President Ed
Morris presided. He explained fully
the mechanism of Sodales, especially the point system as regards getting a gold “D”.

GAZETTE NOTICE

Would all those interested in
obtaining positions on the Gazette
leave their names with the Editor as soon as possible.

This includes those who left
their names with the Editor at
the Frosh meeting in the Chemistry Theatre but who have not
received assignments yet.

 

leviate

Labor Needs —

An urgent appeal for students to
help relieve the acute labor shortage
in the Saskatchewan harvest fields
was answered at McGill, Toronto,
Queen’s, and other Ontario and
Quebec universities during last week.

On Oct “3 the appeal was issued
by the Honorable Humphrey Mitchell, Minister of Labor, stating that
the crop situation in Saskatchewan
was critical. A serious loss of the
wheat crop threatened if labor was
not made available from Eastern
Canada, and the Government appealed to universities in Quebec and
Ontario to assist.

Faculties not training directly for
war work are eligible to go. Commerce, Law, Arts, Agriculture, and
first, second and third year Science
have all enlisted with the harvesters.

Free transportation will be provided, with the exception of $10 of
the return fare. Free board and
lodging will be provided, plus a minimum of $4 daily wages, with higher
pay for truck drivers, combine operators and other experienced harvesters. On their return, the student harvesters will receive extra tutorials to make up for classes missed, and there is a possibility O.T.C.
credit may be given for this work.

The response in Quebec and Ontario colleges has been immediate.
Approximately 350 students have
gone from the University of Toronto; Queen’s University has sent
225; nearly 420 left McGill last
Thursday; and McMaster, University of Western Ontario, and other
Upper Canada colleges are well represented. Dal co-eds can relax, however, since there is no prospect of
immediate exodus of males to the
wide open spaces where men are
men, from Maritime universities as
yet.

ELECTIONS TODAY

Student Council by-elections are
being held teday te determine
the Arts and Science representative for the woman’s seat on the
organization of solons. All members of Arts and Science are entitled to.a vote, with the exception ‘of frosh, so whether you
prefer the auburn charm of Helen
McKay, or the personality plus
of Mary Boswell, cast your vote
now, if you haven’t done so already. The polling both is in the
Gym kitchen, and voting closes
at 7 o’clock.

One Moment Please

 

The S8.C.M. fall camp will be held
at Palmer’s Lodge, Waverley, on
October 17th and 18th.

=

 

Band practice is now under way.
All interested. in helping ont
please report to “Hank “Johnson
or Royce Mallem.

 

Interfaculty football will be played
on ’Tuesdays and Thursdays at 12
noon.

 

Lost—Reward
Lost—Girl’s black plaid jacket between tennis courts and Shirreff

Hall, Saturday morning. Finder
return to Betty Knapp, Shirreff
Hall. Reward.

r 
LIANT DEFENCE OF LIBERAL EDUCATION

PRESIDENT GIVES ADDRESS OVER C.B.C.

EDUCATIONAL MATERIALISTS
SCORED BY DR. STANLEY

“Schools and universities which remain liberal, and do not
confine themselves to professions and techniques, are concerned
chiefly with the nature and dignity of man,” stated Dr. Carleton Stanley, President of Dalhousie, speaking over the CBC
Tuesday evening, on the Universities as a work of freedom. He
had been requested by the CBC to make a summary of his last
report to the Board of Governors of Dalhousie. University, in

which he made a brilliant defence of liberal education.
He was ‘sneakine against. those®———

educational materialists who, under
the guise of patriotism, insist that
technical education alone be given
to only those students who may enter one of the professions and that
the liberal arts course be hastened
to its inevitable doom, or reduced to
one year and to a standard below
the best high school curricula.

Analyzing these attacks, he showed critics were unfair in asserting
that even for the period of the war
the British universities were dispensing with humane studies; he
reminded his trans-Canadian audience that scientists needed literature
as much as any one else, for the
study of literature meant coming to
know the best that had been said
and thought in the world, including
what scientists themselves have
said and thought.

President Stanley maintained this
statement still held, for ultimately
what we want as a result of education is what we want out of life. If
by life we mean power, “successful
careers—greed of money, lust for
power—there is no place for a liberal education.” He pointed out
medical and dental professions would
then not be interested in preventive
medicine, but would welcome plague
and pestilence, and engineers would
not differentiate between the building of bridges and artillery weapons.

There can be no Bill of Rights and
no equality of Law under this system, when “stark, naked power is
what each of us seeks”. There would
be a few masters, and many slaves.
The world has seen such ages before. “Slowly and painfully such
civilizations as the world have seen
have emerged from the welter of
misery and oppression,” said Dr.

Stanley.
Continued on page Four

DIPO°¢

Gives Address

 

DR. CARLETON STANLEY

CUP Representative
Visits Gazette

A visitor over the week-end to
Dal campus, and to the Gazette in
particular, was Dent Hodgson, special representative of the Canadian
University Press. He is now on a
six-weeks’ tour of the Dominion, in
the course of which he plans to visit
all Canadian universities, with the
purpose of reorganizing the C.U.P.
His Maritime itinerary has already
taken him to U.N.B., Acadia, Dal,

and St. Francis Xavier, and Mt. Al-“ |

lison is scheduled as his next stop.

Former editor-in-chief of the Toronto Varsity, past president of the
C.U.P. and author of its handbook,
Mr. Hodgson is now with the Canadian Press.

Dalhousie Institute of

Public Opinion

 

DO YOU THINK HALIFAX IS LIKELY TO BE BOMBED?

Haligonians can sleep at ease once more if Dal student opinion is correct. The majority, 56%, declared that they did not think is likely that’

Halifax would be bombed. Another 30% were more pessimistic, and
thought the city would be attacked, while 5% remained undecided. One
cynic declared that “it should, but who’d want to bomb that joint?

* *

2k Bs

HOW OFTEN DO YOU ATTEND FOOTBALL GAMES?

We seem to have a majority. of football fans in our midst.
those asked, 64%, said they attended games recently.
the games occasionally, while only 9%

* *

Most of
Another 27% see

don’t go at all.
ae

WHO IS THE BEST-LOOKING MAN AT DALHOUSIE?

The President emerges as Dal’s best-looking man, with 15% of the

votes, but not without fierce competition.
Page, MacKay and Jewitt, each with 10%.

Next in order came Professors
Other well-known personalities

come out with honours, especially Major Hogan, Red Payne, Lester de
Pester, Roy Atwood and Prof. Richter.
Said one young freshman: “Who’s the best-looking man ?—Myself of

course.” The co-eds were often more reserved, and answered,

noticed” (believe it or not).

“T haven’t

One well-known co-ed burst out in rapture

over “that new freshman with blond hair,” but we'll leave that for the

Pig Sty.

‘

¢

 

‘
  

  

Pm any iis of THE GAZETTE « are those of
ot be Sasomed that they represent the opinion of

oe

GAZETTE STAFF

eevee OR RR Bee le oe daa ecss< BOD McCleave
re Wectonald
een eae fa eo, eB, J. Shtelds
BR ec iieap- sess. Ed Morris
Be le oe ee bo... ca John MacLean
it Be shag ise csea supa David Coldwell
*§ OMAMIG Ce Se inbbsshcasccevaepersicee auugene Merry
eee rs. ee ..Donald Oland

 
 

 
 
   
  

 
 
  

  

Pei ee es Eileen Phinney
NR eM c. 25 said te eNM MTN hey Sonido vs .Boris Funt

1 staff: Boris Funt, Joyce Harvey, Kay Cox, James Camp. Lawrence, Miss Goodman.

A CAMPUS SERVICE

e was when the bulletin boards at Dalhousie were not
iw rith large, forlorn sheets enscripted with announce- meetings. stead, these notices were neatly typed
dard sheet. Those days are gone forever, in the words
menting poet who has lost his girl friend.

did they disappear? There used to be a regular service
ved d, with a psa given by the Students’ Council.

; ‘its “One Moment Please”. All that is necessary is for the
soe! iety concerned to get in touch with one of our editors or
a rep orters and state their notice. It can be slipped under the
a office door. The more important notices will be given bold type

There i is, Be setivay: the possibility of a bulletin board keeper.
Will some student, an artistic soul, perchance, assume the res
 

STUDENTS’ HOUSING
(Contributed)

De era ohh Rlanstéonns, at Roy’s, and all over the campus, stories
and fragments of stories are heard from students who indig1 x ~ nantly complain of the treatment they are receiving at the
Be _ hands of Halifax rooming and boarding-house keepers. From
C the tone of those tales of woe, it would seem that certain Hallifax landlords are taking advantage of the housing shortage
i te o exploit in full the unhappy student who has difficulty in
nding a place to hang his hat.

_ Although these “patriots” who scramble madly to make
¢a pital out of. any kind of emergency have moved warily reig _ cently because of fear of prosecution by the Rentals Board,

s fir
* As

ee sles eg > man with everything except co-eds. At any rate, rents
- beyo: nd all reason are asked for the most humble rooms, and
¢ eV: Llooking matter is being palmed off as “food”. This sit4 ua tion is “especially serious to those students who depend on
‘ - th e money they earn during the summer to carry them
through the college year. and something should be done immed“ie ae to have the whole problem investigated.

__ The individual sufferer might be in a poor position to regster any efficient protest by himself, but if all the cases of
i c uncil, that body should be able to lay the matter before the
a pe a ‘authorities, All the “beefs”, however, should be reg| at once, for that is the only Way victims can expect
i
his mi night also be the proper time to have the whole quesof stu ent housing aired before the Council. In the past
e seems to have been a reluctance in the Students’ Council
2 tacks the really difficult problems, but there is no reason
yhy this should be so this year. The student housing con: nt eee = will undoubtedly be aggravated as the
nues. r Council might render a real service by
ample of the University of Toronto, who
er of co-operative residences, run to meet
rather than for profit. It will take
to arrive at a solution, but who says our

   

 

  
   
   
  
 
   
     
   
    
 
    
   
    
 
     

   
 
   

  

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

   

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
    
    
  
  
   
    
    
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
     
   
 
    
  
     
    
    
    
  
    
      
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
   

FARMERS’ MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience
Write or call for Calendar or advice to

F. H. SEXTON, President.

A Word of

American Gem Society

Welcome BLAKELEY’S
Birks extend to newcom- ) ‘es
ers and returning Hagens p
a cordial welcome to bring
their gift problems to 4 WELCOME
Se ca a e} TO
Come and visit—even if )
you have no problem. ) DALHOUSIE
Henry Birks & Sons /(
Limited ( O
Registered Jeweller (
fj

43 Spring Garden Road

Barrington ne Halifax, N.S. ;

 

Balhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a yéar.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year,

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 

 

 

rl ea O ve ;
rr re

 

 
 
 

ch
b

 

vem 1 pee Aa 3
be we st = . | i poe a) tar ‘ey
ret . oe Way 14 be eet 5 a } A
? < Nine bh tT 5
se ’ VY y a 16, 1 :

[LITERARY

 

 

 

AFTERNOON TEA: PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE
One of the most hackneyed quotations in the whole range of

English literature is

“The cups that cheer but not inebriate.”

The poet is praising the virtues of that time-honored institution—

——

afternoon tea, a custom which has had much to do with forming

the reputation of the English people.

simple.

The reason, while obvious, is

A legend grew up surrounding the race’s greatest obsession.

Foreigners, observing, said:“At four o’clock everything stops for tea. No
matter whether the cricket inning is half-played, or the mortar for the

new aerodrome half-mixt, everything stops for tea.

The senior player

leaves his balls,the cabinet minister his mail for they must have their tea.
And then, after half an hour, the life of the nation begins again where it
left off.” Then they marvelled at “Britannic phlegm”, bowed to something they could not understand, and attributed an unpossessable trait to

the English race.

It is possible (c’est la guerre) that
afternoon tea may become a thing
of the past. Before it recedes into

utter oblivion, it is fitting to recall
something of its spirit. Some authorities maintain that tea was only
a secondary object: conversation was
often more important. Everything
came up for discussion, from the
relative merits of Scarlatti and Lyst
to the influence of the Com hour on
English thought, from the villainy
of the cheese-monger to village life
on the upper reaches of the Orinoco.
This school of thought forgets the
idea itself; perhaps it may best be
refuted by calling attention to the
elaborate ceremony connected with
the tea-making, but the adherents
of this false school of philosophy
condsider the exquisite precision
that went into the preparation—so
mang grams of one kind of leaves
added to so many of another, a final pinch of Chinese tea for flavor
—exact measure of water—timing
with a stop-watch to the second.
But even this was not enough: then
followed the final rites of sugar,
lemon and cream, until each taste
was satisfied. If it is true that the
conversation immediately assumed
an easier and more mellow tone, this
obviously was the result of the tea
and must be subordinated to it.

No doubt some future psychologist, for his Ph.D. thesis will investigate the conclation between good
tea and easy talk. Perhaps he will
asseverate there is no connection: in
that casé it will be apparent that
he is a staid hermit who never ventured near the tea-table. He would
be one who thought his work so
important he could not stop for tea,
and he would not be welcomed in the
best circles.

In the past, those who aspired to
membership in the best circles, had,
however, to cultivate the taste for
tea-drinking. If not possessed, it had
to be acquired. Some who preferred
the easier course—that is, the confirmed coffee-drinkers, who swore tea
was not designed for human consumption, but for cleaning the drains
with—believed they could enter the
exclusive tea drinkers’ society by
pretending to drink but actually
emptying the cups in the rubber
plant or giving it to the cat. This
practice was frowned upon, as det
rimental to the rubber plants and to
the cat also. Those who practiced it,
eventually found themselves looked
on with disdain, shuddered at, and
firmly rejected. Tea-drinking, was
not only a social asset, but a social
necessity.

In these comparatively tealess
days, the non-tea-drinker has automatically a social asset. If his aversion is known, his company is sought
for much is to be said in favor of
anyone who does not diminish the
precious ounce per week. O tempora! O mores!

Some profess to find an unattractive side to tea-drinking. They view
with alarm as extreme habit, the
custom of tea for breakfast, brunch,
lunch, four o’clock dinner, and supper just before bed. This assertion
is as absurd as to accuse one of intemperance, who insists on a supply
of oxygen all day and night, for
tea is almost as necessary to teaaddicts as air to the less highly
blessed individuals. More exactly, tea
is as necessary to tea-lovers as Bach
is to concert pianists: either can be
got along without, but only at tremendous pain,

The circle around the tea-table
is past until after the war. The only
substitute—a sorry one— is afternoon gingerale, or four o’clock grape
juice. However, this solution (if it
is worthy of that name) can be only
be temporary—for these mundane
drinks will never supply the benefits
of tea. There are several important
reasons—the preparation of gingerale can never be developed to a series
of complex formulae; it is pointless
to serve in privacy what one can
anywhere buy in public; no one can
sigh with contentment, pick up a
cup of fragrant gingerale, and settle
down to quiet conversation. After the
war, it is inevitable that the intimacy
of the tea-table return; if the intimacy and cosiness can be obtained
any other way, it is inevitable the
tea return to the table for its own
sake,

Meanwhile, the true teaddict, biding his time, looks back nostalgically towards the old days when the
weekly ration could be consumed in
one afternoon. He puts aside his
little tea-service where he can’t see
it, and sheds salt tears into an
empty cup.

—L. E.

 

BOOK REVIEW

JOHN R. MOTT, “World Citizen” by Basil Mathews
Mr. Matthew’s object in writing | Sunt” (that they. All may be One

this book, is to give a complete picture of the life of John R. Mott; in
doing so, he very nearly gives a
complete picture of the religious
trends of the last fifty years. While
this is a large statement, it is true,
for Doctor John R. Mott is unquestionably the most outstanding religious leader of our times, “the voice
of this single man hath put more
heart in us than five hundred trumpets continually blustering in our
ears.”

Doctor Mott was brought up in
the simple pioneer life of the Iowa
of the ’60’s and ’70’s, and attended
Upper Iowa University and Cornell.
After his graduation, he threw himself heart and soul into the projects
and movements to which he has devoted his life. For the first thirty
years after its institution, he was
chairman of the Student Volunteer
Movement; he has served on the
YMCA, as its executive of the Foreign Division, as General Secretary
of the National Council, and as
President of the World Aida For
thirty years, he was leader of the
World Student Christian Movement,
which, as its motto,“Ut Omnes Unum

implies, embracing people from every
race, seeks to bring the students of
the world into a common fellowship.

Doctor Mott’s work has carried
him thousands upon thousands of
miles; his experience passes over
more than half a century. The interest of Mr. Mathew’s book lies chiefly in the fact that it is history, not
only of a great missionary statesman, but also of all of our century.
Doctor Mott’s activities have been
So many and so varied that the mere
record of them tells more of our
time than many larger bookswith
this ostensible purpose.

In this world of shifting values,
and of threats to our democratic way
of life, Doctor Mott’s teachings are
not lessening, but increasing in
value. Mr. Matthews admirably expresses their present necessity:

“Looking forward today, his programme is as daring and spacions
as in the past. It would not be easy
to discover a country where he is
not backing with personal counsel
and material support projects integral to the world mission of Christianity, of which his leadership is

(Continued on page three)

       
  
  

¥,

*

 
  
 
  

 
   
  
  

f

 

ya

Dal

By J. G. MacLEAN

| fe oR Feature Editor
- Gabriel’s horns are lacking. Our

college has need of a band now more
than ever before. The football season brings with it an atmosphere of
RAH RAH RAH but back of the
cheers there should be a band with
an ample supply of PRACTISED
SELECTIONS. ;

Acadia had a swell band: last year

which gave their team untold sup
port at their games. Mt. Allison had
a band organized under the banner
of the C.O.T.C. It is interesting to
note that after the disastrous fire
which destroyed their residence, one
of the first appeals made to the public by the University was for used
band instruments.. This would indicate that Mt. Allison University
places quite some importance on
their musical tooters.

This University has a room in the
Gymnasium set aside for the use of
the band. We have a large quantity
of band orchestrations for a great
variety of music. Also, there are a
few instruments just waiting for the
wind of some willing Dalhousian to
set them going. The precussion section is a very valuable asset to any
band and this needs a few willing
souls. .

How about exerting a little of that

surplus energy that is so scarce

around this concentration camp and
show up for band practise. If you
evan play at all, or think that talent is there to be developed, watch
the notice boards for information on
the organization.

Attendance at a certain majority
of the band’s practices and performances earns one of Dalhousie’s
coveted Major felt “D’s”. Every stu
dent at Dal should have earned one
in some way or other before leaving
this college.

.. This is as good and deserving a

way as any, so “Come on along,
come on along, and hear Dalhousie’s

-corney band.”

 

On Snoring

I am a victim of circumstances; a
plaything of Chance; a man scorned, nay, even despised, of fate. Not
only does my room-mate snore; he
is a master of that doubtful art and,
moreover, an invariably sound
sleeper.

Let us consider the number and
variety of snores. First we might
mention the element of suspense
which precedes the period of snoring. You lie awake listening for
and expecting the unpleasant noise
and yet not at peace until you hear

| a6.

There is the passive snore. To the
inexperienced ear it sounds like the
far-off whistling of an express train
and not until, for three-quarters of
an hour, you have lain awake all
night, do you realize its true origin.

There is, also, the double action
snore, audible on the intake and the

_ exhaust, the former akin to the fog
horn, the latter of a more soothing
tone, the whole discordant.

Finally, there is that truly remarkable snore, which, in rising crescendo, reaches majestic proportions
to trail off in diminuendo to momentary silence. Here is the ultimate,
the sublime, in snoring.

The methods of dealing with snoring are several. There is the appeal
to the Better Nature. However,
when the Subconscious Mind and the
Nasal Passages are in complete accord (or rather discord) the Better
Nature can do nothing about it.

A more violent method, namely,
shaking, may be tried in extreme
cases. The patient, the terrorist, is
seized by the shoulders and hurled
against wall or floor, the idea being
that of the Immovable Object and
the Irrestible Force.

Too, there is the method of quieting the offender by hurling things at
him. But this method is costly, as
it involves the destruction of furniture, college text-books, alarm

- elocks and such like articles. More
over, the exact position of the sleep
5
d ‘J
y \ ie
70 , . tae ;
a a! a te
_— 5 ne 7
“. ees) le
. Se % »
FP é
'‘ =
r = 7
ye

LEGE SPIRIT ON HORNS OF DILEMMA
d of Turnout For

Band Is Stressed

 

Co-ed Styles To Be
Sloppier This Year?

By ANNETTA GOODMAN

Calling all co-eds—calling all coeds—do you want to be up to date
this year? Well, here’s the recipe,
and take careful note.

The college uniform of the year
will be startlingly different from
ever before—something new, something away from the beaten track.
The only answer to these demands
is of course a skirt and sweater.
Owing to the war effort skirts will
be decidedly briefer both in length
and breadth.

Chic sweaters are pulled down
to ene’s ankles and then allowed to
spring back. Follow the formula
and your sweater will be definitely
collegiate.

We hear of a certain bewildered
father making his way to the sweater department of a well-known store
and sadly stating his quandary to
the sympathetic clerk: “My daughter would like a sweater which buttons down the front and may be
worn backward, and it also must
have long sleeves so she may push
them up.”

However, it is the formula for the
up-to-date dress, so all we can do is
extend sympathy to the parents of

the modern miss.

* *

Flash! ‘The footwear department
has one set for co-eds. Co-eds want
the messiest, scuffiest and comfiest
hoof-covers yet invented. So if anyone can discover a pair, just a bit
sloppier than the ones now in use,
don’t look now, but I think you’ve
got a fortune on your hands.

* * *

Fashions from the neck up follow
the same path—more stuff and more
go; and, most remarkable of all, is
that what emerges. After all, such
patented processes is surprisingly

fresh and natural.

* * *

The silk stocking shortage doesn’t
seem to have worried the campus
whatsoever, for if you don’t own
diamond sox, don’t wear any. In
either case you are still on the line

of proper dress.

* %* *

Hair-do’s are whatever way you'll
have them—upswept or sideswiped.
Take your choice. Perhaps I had
better modify that remark: one may
choose one’s hair-do as soon as the
pigtail conscription fades, and then
undoubtedly co-eds’ hair-styles will
be termed quite simply as wind
blown.

ee geeg

Anyone interested in the underwear situation may be pleased to
note that the scarlet woolies will
come out from moth-balls any day
now and see the wear of another
winter. Scarlet is previewed as being the most popular shade, with
orange and emerald green running

close seconds.

* * *

An important question now under
discussion is, “May girls wear housecoats as evening wraps?” The answer is undecided, but no doubt if
the boys would ever tell the difference we will leave the decision to
the inventorial co-ed, although we
might beseech the boys not to look
too closely into the matter.

a ae.

So ends our brief glimpse of modern campus apparel. Any new suggestions will be duly considered, so
we ask you, “What can you offer to
improve the all-important clothes
situation on Studley campus?”

 

er must be determined by the higher
mathematics and physics.

Lastly there is Passive Resistance,
e.g., tearing the hair, biting the
nails, and imploring the immortal
gods to awaken the snorer.

Further methods may yet be
found. Here is a broad field for research.

Meanwhile my room-mate “doth
murder sleep”. With Macbeth, I shall

‘sleep no more:

 

  

Ld "
oa
‘ - a iT ry + .
is TL ye

Z

P

 

AGE »

Pi
C |
aA
; ers.
3 = . +
m ees i
" f 5 >
a — a

Intimate Glimpses of College Life -- No. 3

 

a

Freshman Waterfield is shown enjoying an egg as part of the
frosh punishment for crimes mythical or otherwise. The non-discriminating jury is seen behind him which judged the frosh. Like Alice’s

Queen they sang “Off with his head”.

White objects in the fore
ground are specks of frosh fiesh.

  

As Hester le Pester hastened to
the Library, the grim echoes of the
shriek hurtled from Stodgy to Forrest, and Memphis to Saint Joe, la,
la, la. Carrying with him a mop, and
a Dazzlehousie Calendar, Hester le
P. sought a solution to the horrific
scene which met his eyes. There in
the library halls, was Bernard Le
Blitz, Glum Club prexie, who was
running after freshettes to get them
into the Fresh Show.

“Will you”, he said, holding slipperily to a bundle of charm and
curves, Itotter Fini. “do a strip tease
for. my show?” She answered not
nor tarried. “Hmmm” said the repulsed Bunnie, and looked for greener
talent.

Lippitying to the Haul, he espied
K. Archesbare, who is lucious whichever alphabet you spell it with.
Creeping up on her, he said:‘‘ Would
you like to star in the show? You
are beautiful. Can you sing in the
show? Yours is, a sweet personality
(looking at personality). Can you
dance? May I foxtrot with you?
You’re sweet”.

Mixing pleasure with pleasure,
Bunnie tore the startled filly off in
his arms, and showed her the fandango and the alcove bolero.

Over in the Gymnasium, now presided over by King Hokum, Rufus
Rayne having died, the rest of the
frosh were gallivanting around under the watchful eyes of Glum Club
executives. Some were singing, and
the rest were listing their qualifications for stars in the show.

“T have starred in all the B.Y.P.U.
three acters held at Ecum Secum for
the last ten years, and I began as
a child progeny”, lisped one hopeless. “I want to be alone”, said another. They both were.

Meanwhile, K. Archesbare had

eluded Bernard LeBlitz, who went
over to supervise the show. “Sech |

talent,” thought Bernard as a shapely ankle, etc., flashed by. Following
up the freshette, he snuggled her
into private conference (just like all
theatrical private conferences).

Other frosh were cavorting like
mad and an endless green vapor began to arise from the assemblage.
LeBlitz was still taking the freshettes into personal eonferences. The
Frosh show shapelied up.

and carousal, seen as though a green
vapor, there appeared a startingly
gigantic form. With a growl it rushed forth onto the stage, dashing
frosh right and left.

Helpless before the sight of this
monster, Ohjoy Harvey, Ittotter Fini,
and K. Peahen (a woman, as distingunshed from Dim Peahen, the football player) fainted. LeBlitz, after
one glance, took to the Forrest campus.

=

*

What strange apparition frightened the fair ladies into slumber
and Leblitz into fitz? With this column be continued- If you don’t like

Benard LeBlitz

A Series of Bedtime Stories

 

  
     
 

it tell it to Feature Editor John
MacLean, because he doesn’t write

it.

Say 99

No doubt, because of strenuous
class meetings and elections, certain
students attended the Students’
Council dance. Recently famous for
knocking a perfectly strange girl
over the head with a bottle, Roy
Fanjoy, the great libertine, was at
the dance, as one might have expected. But surprise! Lindsay was
there, too; and he refused to introduce anyone to the girl he took with
him. Another surprise: Stew Mad
din was not there!
a *

*

Having dazzled the freshettes as
much as possible, many white-coated
butchers called medical and dental
students: are planning week-end exeursions. “Uppie” Moffat will proceed to Mt. Allison, Harold McCormack to Acadia. “Subtle Stew” Maddin plans to march on Acadia, too;
and, by virtue of that famous red
cap, he will undoubtedly take the
place by storm. Jack Patten expresses some desire to see the province, and it seems likely that, like
Maddin, he will go down the Valley
for the holiday. One wonders what
these boys are looking for in Wolfville ?

* % %

But the bony fingers of anatomy
are beckoning the students back to
their books. Nonetheless, one may
look forward to some tall tales after
Thanksgiving,

BOOK REVIEW—

(Continued from page two)

|
symbolized in his chairmanship of

| the International Missionary Council

 

Then, |
through these scenes of merriment |

 

and presidency of he World’s Alliance of Young Men’s Christian Associations. There is indeed no function described in this life-story that
is not today finding expression in the
work that he is pressing forward in
a period of world crises when new
forces are corroding the ancient
foundations,» and humanity cries
aloud for fresh foundations of life:
the practical application of integrating spiritual and moral power to the
whole life of man.”
* —L. E.

 

Jerry
Naugler’s

Orchestra

C)

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032

i ee

 

  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 

“How about
a Coke date”

 
     

: apne
te a

yo i.

“We've been ‘goin’ steady’ a

long time, you and I. You see;
i'm a symbol of the life and
sparkle of Coca-Cola. Therefore, | speak for Coke. I like
your company. I offer someSi thing more than a thirstquenching drink. It’s refreshing. Yes siree...it’s
got that extra something
you can’t get this side of
Coca-Cola itself. Let’s get
together. Make it a Coke

date,"’

TRADE MARK
Delicious and

eo tears

ere
eee

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

HALIFAX
652

 

 

 
 
    

DALHOUSIANS ...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

   
 
     
  
    

 

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

CAPITOL

| *

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

 

/ =

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG. ROAD

“War Against
Mrs. Hadley”

Edward Arnold
Fay Bainter

*

) HALIFAX

Dale oli

Nova Scotia )

— 4 |

—

 

 

GARRICK

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

Return Engagement of
“FOOTLIGHT SERENADE”

Thurs. and Friday

“Panama Hattie”

Ann Sothern
Red Skelton

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
“THEY RAID BY NIGHT”

“PRISONER OF JAPAN”

 

ORPHEUS

CASINO
*

CARRIED OVER

ABBOTT
and

COSTELLO

in

“Pardon My Sarong”’

*

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“MAN WITH TWO LIVES”
*“SO’S YOUR AUNT EMMA”

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“SABOTAGE SQUAD”
“SILVER BULLET”

OXFORD)

Monday and Tuesday

“THE MALE ANIMAL”
“ALWAYS IN MY HEART”

 

 

     
   
  
     
  

 

  

Wednesday and Thursday

“THE WIFE TAKES FLIER”
“I WAS FRAMED”

Friday and Saturday
“FOOTLIGHT SERENADE”
“TOMBSTONE”

  
   
   

*

 

 
 
   
   
  
 
    
    
   
  
  
   
   
    
   

ar

ae

 

_ if there is any optimism in gradT shen. the Dalhousie

 

very nadly. and then some. From
two in the afternoon until five,
‘thirty Dal players amassed the
stunning total of three points while
their opponents picked up.

_In the Intermediate game, so
called, the Dal Cubs practiced with

a team from Military District Depot
No. 6, as the latter picked up fifteen
points on three tries and the same
number of converts.

Monday’s Intermediate contest,
this time with Pictou Highlanders,
was somewhat closer related to football. Sparked by a half-field run by
Mike Knickle, the collegians outclassed the soldiers in everything
but the score, which stood at 6—6
at the end of the regular route.

*x* + *

The Dal C.0.T.C. Senior squad
fared little better than their juniors
in the opening game on Saturday.
Led by the mighty boot of Gordon
Gilbridge, who tallied ten. of the
sailors’ points, the visitors piled up
a 16—3 score, and set themselves
up as the team to beat in the City
Senior League.

The collegians peceuned some lost
prestige in the second half, but unfortunately the attainment was not
matched with the things that count
in a football game, namely, tries,
kicks, and converts.

*x* * #*

The senior outfit did much better
Monday when they tackled an Artillery Training Centre squad. Taking their lives in their own hands,
the collegians somehow evaded the

 

Y
Z
=
S

AMAAAZY ONDINE TAR

    

7,

From ae see Picture
“ORCHESTRA WIVES”’
(I'VE GOT A GAL IN) KALAMAZO0

—Fox Trot (V.R.)
AT LAST wee ae ( ee J PY
No.

SERENADE IN BLUE—r.« Trot (V.R.)
THAT’S SABOTAGE —rox Tro: (v.Rw

Record No. 27935
OTHER RECORDS

DEARLY BELOVED —Fox Trot (v.R.) |

I'M OLD FASHIONED—rox Tro: (vw

(Both from the film “You Were Never
elier’’

Alvino Rey and his Orchestra
Hacced No. B-11579

WHEN THE LIGHTS GO ON AGAIN

(All Over The World) —Fox Trot (V.R.)

HIP HIP HOORAY —Fox Trot (V.R.)

Vaughn Monroe and ie Orchestra
Reeord No. 27945

HE'S MY GUY —Vocadance
ABOY IN KHAKI - AGIRLINLACE

_ Dinah Shore with Orchestra —V ecadance
Record No. 27963

local War Service Unit will receive
ee for your old Victor and Bluebird
Records. Give them a@ call.

VICTOR

   

+ +

rs i oa Topped On
ay; Win, Draw} On Monday

suena
rough-house tactics which paraded |:

_| under the guise of straight-arming
and went on to win, 6—5. Sparked
by Wilson, Wiswell, Hart and the
newly-acquired Lownds, the Dalhousie boys looked the big guns in the
face, and though in danger of having their brains (?) separated from
their dispositions somehow brought
the cake along to the Studley stomping ground,
* * *

Keeping a tally of scoring points
will not be difficult this week. In
the Senior loop, Gordie Hart leads
with six points, and Coach Burnie
Ralston has three.

In the Intermediate league, Knickle and Bloomer have three each.
None of these scores came near the
loop leaders in either circuit, Gilbride alone having tallied ten ringers in one game.

 

| Si |
Tennis Season
& e e
Still in Swing
by PAT HOLLIS

During last week the Dalhousie
tennis championships were played,
the two events being men’s singles
and women’s singles. The semifinals and finals were played at the
Waegwoltic Club on Saturay afternoon. The Munro-Evans trophy was
won by Philip Cole, who defeated
Bill Pope in the finals by 6-2, 6-2.
The cup for the women’s singles was
won by Margaret MacPherson, the
score in the finals against Ann
Saunderson, 6-4, 6-4. Other semifinalists were Joan Woodbury and
Pat Hollis; Robert Taffrey and
David Churchill-Smith.

There were 14 entrants for the
women’s singles, 8 of, whom were
freshettes. Let’s follow the example of the freshettes and get up
some enthusiasm among the upper
classes, too.

This was the first tennis tournament that has actually been finished
for years at Dalhousie, and a great
deal of the success was due to Professor Mercer’s untiring work, and
we would like to express our gratitude to him.

The tennis season is not yet over.
We hope to stage a match between
the freshettes and upper-class women at the Waeg on Saturday next
at 2 p.m. Don’t wait to be asked to
play, just come along and uphold
the honor of your class!

1942 Schedule For
Halifax City Rugby

SENIOR

Oct. 17—Acadia at Navy
21—Dalhousie at Navy
21—23 A.T.C. at Dalhousie

Navy at Acadia
28—Navy at 23 A.T.C.
31—23 A.T.C. at Navy

Dalhousie at Acadia
7—Acadia at Dalhousie
14—Acadia at 23 A.T.C.

INTERMEDIATE
Oct. 17—Acadia at Depot
21—Dalhousie at Pictou
24—Pictou at Acadia
28—Pictou at Depot
31—Depot at Pictou
Dalhousie at Acadia
Nov. 7—Acadia at Dalhousie
14—Acadia at Pictou

Nov.

For Sporting
Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

Call on

PIANOS — CHURCH ORGANS
SHEET MUSIC —- RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

 

—s = = 4 oe ee

“DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE

   

| TEAMS WIN 1, TIE 1, LOSE 2

SSZUVUNUNNLN UAT UON,N 0 ONAN EATEN PAULO

SPORT - O- SCOPE

by ED MORRIS

TOUUIUUSOUSQEUSNS0 EUAN DAAP0AE RUS AA EN SS

When two amateur baseball teams put on an exhibition
game in Berlin last summer before a crowd of 100,000 — much
larger, by the way, than World Series audiences — almost no
one had any idea of what was going on. Afterward, a Nazi
“baseball commentator” described the game: “Baseball began
its successful career in the countries surrounding the Pacific
Ocean. Both teams appeared with nine players. The team
with red stockings attacked first. The thrower throws the ball
at a certain height toward the catcher of his team against the
hitters of the adverse team. The catcher must catch the ball
if it is not captured by the wooden baton of the hitter. The
defending team also had four men who guarded the rhombus
and tackled runners, as well as three people who guarded the
outlying section of the rhombus in order to capture the ball for
their own team. After three invalid throws, a player is out and
the same is true if the ball is caught and also if the ball is
thrown into the rhombus before he finishes his run.”

SS20)N NNN U/ET TODAS UA SOI NS
THU UDULNANUANEUL ALAA

That makes a beautiful introduction to a column which should have
started with a commentary on alleged football games of a few days back.
On that subject I prefer to adhere strictly to an ancient Chinese proverb
which says: “It is better to close the mouth and be thought a fool than to
open the mouth and remove all doubt.’” All I know is what I read in the
papers. 16 to 3. Ugh! And we needed Mr. Gilbride like I need spinal
meningitis.

Monday’s game was much better even though the straight-arming
developed into quasi-murder. Picking stars is not my habit, but Wiswell,
Wilson and Hart deserve more than a casual mention. The cheering section, like Gaul, was divided into three parts—those who yelled for Dal,
those who yelled for the Army, and those who didn’t bother to yell.

Red Payne, the Red Dolt, is residing quite comfortably, thank you.
‘Closely resembling Mrs. Gargantua from Hackensack, the Payne is in a
strange position—on the flat of his back. To those who miss the verbal
eloquence which gushes from his oral cavity it is comforting to know that
the Payne has lost none of his old fire. By the way, I bet you even money
that Red would appreciate a visit—Room 34 in the Victoria General
Hospital.

I regret very much my inability to count over ten without taking my
boots off. Perhaps the football crew will take a hint from this little item.
When prohibition of tribal warfare in New Guinea left the warriors without recreation, the British authorities introduced football, but were soon
perturbed by the casualties. A match played at Rabaul in 1941, which
began with the orthodox number of players, had 57 after thirty minutes’
play, and a dozen players were lying about, injured. Police found seven
players armed with knives, nine with razor blades, seventeen with broken
bottles, and the rest with stone club-heads, short sticks with sharpened
ends, and a supply of six-inch nails.

Friendly sort of game, this football.
sit and look at it for hours.

Campus Is Scene Of
Brutal Assault--Are

More To Come Later

Brutally assaulted by a piece of
lead pipe, in the hands of an unidentified assailant, Colin Pride, night
watchman of the new naval building
on Studley campus, was removed to
the Victoria General Hospital early
Monday night. Making his rounds of
the premises shortly after 8 o’clock,
on the roadway between the building
and the football field he was accosted by a man, whose features he
could not see because of the darkness.

I am fascinated by it. I could

JACK MITCHELL’S

BARBER SHOP

Four Experienced Barbers
R38 Oa Ot PROPS PO
SS a Ee

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

5644 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

 

 

The man asked permission to see
into the building, which was refused.
He then picked up a piece of lead
pipe, over two feet long, and hurled
it at Pride. Struck in the groin, he
felle to the ground. Later he succeeded in getting assistance to remove himself to the hospital; the
assailant had escaped. City detectives were called but were unsuccessful in locating the attacker.

Dalhousie students may well wonder if the ordinary quiet of the campus is but a veil for much of the
viciousness which is around Halifax
at night. Secluded from the waterfront section of the city, and from
most of the scenes of crime in the |
city, yet the campus, with its parks,
has been a favorite hangout for city
inebriates. One week before college
opened a masked youth made a daring purse-snatching a few yards
from Studley.

Hall girls would be well advised to
go home in pairs after dark, or with
some form of male protection.

this famed fabric.

brisk,

Tailors knows how.

of colors and patterns.

 

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M.C. A. Building
Phone B-6881

Halifax

 

troy in Germany any semblance of

 

 

       
           
     
       
       

@ Kinross Tweeds are “musts”
hundreds of college men since Tip Top introduced

Kinross are not run-of-the-mill tweeds—they’re
as British as a bull-dog and just as staunch.
colorful, he-man—fashion-right
course, tailored to your measure as only Tip Top

Kinross Tweeds are a real “break” for the college
man’s pocket-book. One of Tip Top’s GREAT
values at the regular Tip To

British and domestic fabrics.

°29=

TAILORED -~TO-MEASURE

 

= eee ae

October 16, 1942

Yow Cant .
0086 bus

PENCILS

Former Dal Student Passes

Dalhousie learns with regret of
the passing of Professor Lyall Radcliff McCurdy of the faculty of Engineering at McGill University, who
died in Montreal October 9th, after
a short illness.

Born in New Glasgow, N. S., Professor McCurdy was educated at
Dalhousie University and McGill.
He was appointed lecturer in Mechanical Engineering and later became associate professor at McGill.
Funeral services were held in Montreal, Sunday, October 11th, and he
was buried at New Glasgow.

  

 

   

 

President’s Address —

Continued from page One

“Hitler’s first action was to des
liberal education from the kinder-| ; Pe nee, ten et
garten up. Are we in our war on| %°. Cee RS an ER
Hitler to fight his battle for him
here in Canada?”

Space forbids an adequate summary of the address, but. no student |
should neglect the opportunity to
read the President’s report of which
this report was itself a brief sum
 

YOU'RE SURE TO WIN new

mary. It may be obtained from the writing pleasure and economy
office, when you buy Eagle “Chemi3 Sealed” MIRADO. Stronger

points, smoother writing and

 

35 miles of line from every lead
are proved by arheerits , teats
and insured by the above
Certificate now hae packed
in every dozen.

AND roy CAN'T LOSE a
penny. he Money - Back
a ss on the back of each
Certificate one to refund the
rice of the full dozen unless
agle MIRADO proves the
finest pencil you have ever used.

TAKE ADVANTAGE of this
offer. Buy Eagle MIRADO
today, and learn how good a
pencil can be!

 

ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Y.M.C. A. Building -— B-7530
381 Baarrington Street
31 Spring Garden Road — B-6440

We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

BRS 0. ee eS een ean HPOONPpqaPEaas

OPVLVE OE

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

Se each, less in quantities

Made in Canada

eel tee) 71a

370 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9754

We Cater to Collegians

 

Luli Z.t ede,

  

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

78 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of
the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years.

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

4
md
ad
4

in the wardrobes of

They’
and

hg ace Wide selection
Hundreds of other fine

HUNDREDS OF
PATTERNS TO
CHOOSE FROM

418-20 BARRINGTON ST.

 
