           
        

  

PRESIDENTS STATEMENT ON
LATEST ORDER -IN- COUNCIL

Dalhousie University tries its best to put into effect all
_ instructions received from the authorities. From the beginning
of the war, we have made it plain, all round, that the University
and its members will do everything in their power to win the
| war—short of closing the University down. Bekah |
We believe that it is our duty, in spite of all difficulties, to
maintain university instruction during the war, in the humanities as well as in the sciences and the professional schools. At
| 5 times this has not been easy—there having been such a shrink; age in attendance of students and in teachers. In the way of
enlistments and in the way of services to the Government, Dalhousie University has been second to none. i
The Government of Canada have told us from the beginning that students should continue their courses. At times, of
df course, there has been a clamant demand for engineers, doctors,
“ dentists, physicists, and chemists. And, at times, it has
seemed that languages, mathematics and the humanities generally might be regarded as of secondary importance. But the
Government, in all consultations, have wisely said that these
p studies, too, must be carried on, for winning the war and for
f winning the peace. The same is true of the study of law; and
on the Government themselves in the last year have had many
ft posts which could be filled only with men of legal training.
I speak of these matters because I know that some of our
students think that one statement made by the Government
hardly adds up with other statements.
i _ The most recent regulation has to do with notifying the
authorities about students who are delinquent in an academic
a way; and especially about students who fail in terminal or
mid-term examinations. A student might say: “On the one
hand, we are told to continue our studies, and, on the other
hand, some of us at least seems to be suspected of not pursuing
f our studies seriously.” _ )
f _ This matter came up recently at a meeting of university
fs heads of the Maritime Provinces and Newfoundland. It was
iy

uae er y
fr eas
7 ee mote
a 4 A

 

ointed out that it was left to the discretion of the universities
_ to say whether a student was really in good academic standing
or not, and that there was no expectation that the universities
should report to the military authorities every single slip on
examination: in any given case the student’s whole course
would be taken into consideration. For many years, even before the war, our Dalhousie students have been a serious,
industrious body of students, with few exceptions. Since the
war the exceptions have been rare indeed.
_ In answering the Editor’s request to say something about
. i this most recent Order-in-Council, I thought the time opportune
to go into matters generally.
Aa (Sgd.) CARLETON STANLEY.

 

  

WOULD-BE BERNHARDTS DISPLAY TALENTS

Glee Club Holds First
Of Dramatics Meetings

ture, the three P’s of the stage.
There will be two more meetings of
the group held before Christmas, in
 
      

Nine co-eds was the total of those
7 turning out for the first of a series
p of meetings held by the Glee Clulb

A for the purpose of*developing the|cluding one tonight, and five after
a talents of those interested in learn-| wards. It’s never too late to learn,
_ ing the fine pointers of stage behav-|so enrol now.

ior, speech, poise, personality, and| President Levitz has announced

4 posture. Too often stars in Club|plans are underway to procure a

seript for the annual three-acter and
he also urged in an exclusive Gazette interview that all who wished
to enter this year’s big production
turn out for some brushing up at the
dramatics meetings in the Arts building. Scripts will be given out to
some people before the holidays so

shows have slurped onto the stage
‘in the manner of a before advertise. ment for Ironized Yeast, and have
- uttered their “I love you” lines with
» the abondon of a de-starched collar.

This will be remedied if last Fri) [ ‘¢ day night’s meeting is any criterion.
-_ -Mrs. Karl Clarke gave each of the
eo-eds a“piece of extemperaneous

speaking to do, and then criticized

faults, found better points. Then she
_ spoke on poise, personality and pos
ue

selves with the contents.

Levitz also said the usual three
one-acters were in consideration:
Pi Phi, Delta Gamma, and Arts and
Science.

 

Two morons went fishing and had
good luck.

Moron 1: “Better mark the spot
it’s good.”.

Moron 2: “O.K., I’ll cut an X in the
boat right here.”

Moron 1: “Don’t be silly. How do
you know we'll get the same boat
next time?”

~———AM
By EUGENE MERRY |
UY
‘Thought of the week: A good word
is an easy obligation, but not to
__ speak ill, requires only our silence,
'  - which costs us nothing.
Neh ooh aM Wire |
. B oe Visitor: “To whom are you writsing that letter?” ; ee
‘9 Lunatie: “To myself.” |
| * Visitor: “What are you telling|
#1, gan aS Lom tT eae

ati eee

>».
f

   

; The Gazette.
| Viv oy
_ Friendly Aliens denied entrance!
A C.U.P. article in the Manitobian
states that eighteen “friendly aliens”
recently released from internment
camps in Canada were refused permission to enroll in federated colleges of the University of Toronto
the board of governers at a meet
 

  
  
    

    

A

   
  
 

     
 

I know? I won’t
55 . pe Pt Maat tu
| Gontinued on page 4
AL eae ts ye

Reet ces Cita ati iy | |

   

1
e
Pi
~

 
 

that they may familiarize them- |.

Thursday. Later the Students’

 

HALIFAX, N.S., NOVEMBER205 1942

 

STUDENTS FACE

Orbe Te aly

 
 

Fie, SAP DLs
SEP eee vt as
: mH - x on oer 1 the

ea

Medical Society Revived

 

Drill For Slackers To Be Extended Pottle Pres of Re
 

Editor Announces
Year Book Plans

-——_-e---
Following is the text of a release
by -Larry Sutherland, recently appointed Editor of the 1942-43
Pharos:

Plans are now going forward to
publish the 1943 Dalhousie Year
Book, Pharos. Th e staff is putting
forth every effort to give you a book
worrthy of your college; one that
will in years to come serve as a
treasure-house of memories of your
campus days. We ask that everybody
co-operate in this enterprise—let’s
all help the staff in every way possible.

The graduating class has made
plans to have graduation pictures
taken, and these pictures must be in
early if they are to be included in
the Year Book. Christmas has been
set as the deadline for receiving
graduation pictures and only in exceptional circumstances will this rule
be violated. A feature of the 1943
Pharos will be the inclusion of two
medical graduation classes, the class
graduating in January, and in August 1943. Fourth year meds must
have their pictures in by Christmas.

As it is necessary to know how
many books are to be printed by
December 15, orders will be taken at
once. If you want to be sure of getting your Year Book, your order
must be given to your Faculty Representative or to Ted King by that
date. Everyone should buy a Year
Book, whether a graduate or not.
For a nominal price of two dollars,
payable now or on receipt of the
book, you will get a picture record
of the year at college that you will
value more than money.

Following is the staff of the 1943
Pharos, subject to additions:

Baiter aye es Larry Sutherland
Associate Editor Alex Macdonald
Photographie Editor...Don Oland
Sports Editor.......... Ed Morris
Circulation Manager....Ted King
Faculty Representatives:

Arts and Science. .Helen MacKay

 

PASAICING: Gois ide os sos Sid Wright

Kay Murray
Commerce se .5 6. 6 os Cyril King
Pharmaty ..)....: Walter Terris
THAW, cae ic sb cc *Lorne MacDougall
Engineering ...... John MacLean
Dentistry ...... Andy Anderson
One Moment Please

 

An urgent appeal is being made
by the Gazette to have numbers 16
and 20 of last year’s issue made
available for the Archives. These
are the only two not there or ready
to be presented there, in all the
Gaztte’s history. Let us not leave a
blank for posterity.

 

Seniors, make a date today to
have your pictures taekn for the
Year Book. Climo is preferred, but
you have your own choice. See
Norrie Douglas at the Hall about a

gown and hood.

 

Students who have been lax in
attending their O.T.C. periods, will
be liable for the completion of drill
after the rest of the Contingent has
completed its schedule December 6,
it has been learned by the Gazette.
Such drill might last through examinations. Military authorities have
become increasingly stern throughout Canadian Universities, and already several students have taken
out a western University and made
to don khaki.

Elsewhere the O. T. C. front is
quieter, and rumors are again
around the campus that a gigantic
ball will be held for the cadets and
officers of the unit after Christmas.

New promotions recently include
Cadets D. F. Arthur, A. D. Churchill
Smith, H. Rhodes Cooper, W. V.
Gordon, C. N. W. Hall, A. C. Hartling, and R. E. Wasburn to be Acting Corporals.

Effective Speakers
Wait Until New Year

——_——_—_—_—

The Effective Speaking Club, its
attendance increased by fifty percent at its second meeting, has decided to fold up its oratorical wings
and hibernate during the exam week.
This week’s meeting was held with
three people as it. Messrs. Butler,
Donkin, Miss Hyland met, discussed,
withdrew with perfect accord. Donkin’s presence upped previous attendance by half; added another dimension to make a surface instead of
a line of Effectives.

Significance—E. S. C. is a casualty,
may well have to haul in its lip until the war is over. Hit hard when
President Stevens entererd the airforce, the resultant fifty percent drop
in attendance has but gradually been
offset.

The club will commence after
Xmas with regular weekly meetings
which everybody is invited to attend.
In the past successful speakers have
been developed or strengthend at
this Club. Despite a faltering start,
observers predict the club will gain
momentum, particularly among frosh
who’ are not retarded from joining
the club by memories others have
about previous screwball membership.

Junior Prom Plans

Made by Class ’44

Plans for the Junior Prom, and
the voting of $10 payment for Arts
and Science membership fees were
the principal items discussed at a
meeting of the Class of ’44 at noon
yesterday. The tentative date for
the dance was set at the latter end
of February. Laura Mackenzie, Don
Oland and Irma MacQuarrie were
elected as a committee to see if the
Prom could be held in the Gym.
The Waegwoltic will also be discussed as a possible place for the
dance. It was definitely decided not
to hold it in a hotel, as was the
custom formerly.

Vived Med Society

 

Last Friday noon, the long dormant Medical Society arose like a
ghost from the grave and declared
itself to exist. It backed up the resclution by electing its officers, and
those elected are:

Clarence Pottle, President
Claude Keays, Vice-president.
Kennith MacKinnon, Secretary.
Phil MacDonald, Treasurer,
Steve Maclsaac, First Year Representative.

Various students from various faculties have been heard to say contmptuously, “Look, my Lord, it
comes!” But unlike the ghost of
Hamlet’s father, the Medical Society is not likely to return to its
grave this year. The president, Clarence Pottle, declared he would do
his best to make the society~ succesful during his term of office, and

oF” F VA
ae “ ! th qi

sie Y

  
 

No. 9

CALL-UP

Failure in Exams

Cleared by Order

Students who fail in their Christmas examinations may be handed
over to. Selective Service authorities,
and may be liable to compulsory
military service, it was revealed
yesterday.

An Order-in-Council, passed October 21, but not made public until
a few days ago, provides that every
student who does not pass university examinations, or who refuses to
take regular O.T.C. training, although medically fit, is open to callup for military duty.

In the interests of clarifying the
situation, the Gazette has asked for.
a statement from Dr. Stanley, He
was kind enough to furnish us with

an analysis which appears in
columns 1 and 2.
Hold Debate
This Sunday
Charles O’Connell, and Ralph

Vaughan will be Sodales representatives in the first debate of the season against St. F. X. Sunday, on the
subject, “Resolved that modern advertising is more harmful than bene
ficial to modern society”, and will
uphold the negative of the resolution. The subject is the same as that
of the trials held earlier this month.

With these two able debaters,
both of second year Law, Sodales
banks its hopes of starting off a
successful year. For several seasons,
since the days when Del Amiro
swept through Maritime oratorical
circles like a tornado, the Sodales
sun has been in partial eclipse. This
year, with interest revived in debating as never before, hopes are for
the best.

he is supported by capable officers.

 

NOTICE

All male students, of whatever

age and nationality, who are not

attending C.O.T.C. parades and
who have not been exempted
THIS YEAR, are required to report to the Chief Instructor IMMEDIATELY.

 

 

Dalhousie Institute of

DIPOe¢

Forrest Campus, long neglected by DIPO, is well represented m
this week’s quiz, and will continue to be called upon in the future.

Public Opinion

 

Approximately How Long Do You Think the War Will Last?

Dal students indulged in a bit of interesting speculation when answering this question. The current opinion, supported by 37% of those quizzed,
was that the war would last another year, while another 25% thought it
would last two years. Other estimates were varied: 19% thought it would
take five years to end the war; *% thought it would take longer than
that, another 6% thought it would take three years, and 7% were undecided,

One student was quite certain that it would end next August 15,
while another was just as certain it would take exactly 29 years.
opinion was expressed that it would take longer to defeat the Japs than
the Germans. One student saw no definite end to the war, but a merging
into a world revolution.

Other interesting comments were that its length was a military
secret, while a Forrest wit said “it depends upon the red flannels the
Germans have.”

of 4 * *

Do You Consider Arts Courses Essential During War Time?
The answers to this question varied with the course the student was
taking. At Forrest, the great majority thought Arts courses unessential,
while the opposite was true at Studley. The results were not very conclusive; 53% considered them essential, while 47% did not. One med student wanted to limit Arts students only to girls and physically unfit
males. Others were less drastic, and considered some classes essential

and some not. Only at Studley were there ardent champion of liberal
education,

s- * £&

Should a Date Bureau Be Established at Dal?

Stimulated by a pity for the suffering of Dal’s love-forlorn students,
we have decided to ask this question. The results were inconclusive, but
some of the comments were revealing. Of those quizzed 48% were in
favor of the scheme, 44% against and 8% remained undecided.

The boys at Forrest didn’t see much necessity for a date bureau.
Typical comments: “Prefer to get my own” and “No need for it—lots of
nurses around”. “Babes, babes” and “gold-diggers” were some of the
deprecating remarks used to describe Dal co-eds.

Some kind med lads were for the scheme because they “took pity on
the girls at the Hall”, but for no ulterior motive. Studley students ,how
ever, seem to have greater dating problems, and favoured the establish- /

ment of a dating bureau,

The —

  
   
  
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
    
     
   
   
    
      
   
  
    
  
     
    
   
 
    
   
   
   
  
         
         
 
      

“a a
‘ a a

‘

J
1
4
+

 
 
       
     
 
  
     
  
    
      
    
 

  
  

 
  

    
        
    
  
 
rary!

, ege Paper in America”
. et a ee > Han tg 7 of
‘column of THE GA TE a ae:
med that they represent the opinion of
“ i « ‘ :

ise
si

Col!

<2

_ GAZETTE STAFF

Ce. dig Sie sive vic Doleld boas ROD! maeCleave
peneeueceetecesescseeresessWebster Macdonald
Ae es oh. Sea eces @. Shielde
Pe NUS hiebeccdiet +t (saauhenss 3d Morris
Pe Cua Seon sds d ve aces pane Let eetee Wonkin
ake Wee thine <i noisy. Vigra Dawid Coldwell
DEMS hak Guia uaa dly clea dusta eo eneeaetie Merry
Re nia ee, OR eh ak, anata Gland

ES Sieh saa sand niall dee nas eee ew ARES McLaren
BBR er nae weiss ten eee Eileen Phinney
ae ee ee a ae) ee) Boris Funt
‘Boris Funt, Joyce Harvey, Kay Cox, James Camp
- awrence, Elaine Hopewell, Aneeta Go

HALLENGE TO ALL STUDENTS
nig ht, Nov. 25th, a huge rally in Toronto at the
f Gardens was held to inaugurate the Canadian Aid
2 campaign. Une er the chairmanship of J. S. McLean,
Janada Packers Limited, the drive got under way with
nificent. 2al from Wendell Wilkie, who was the main
fu Canada will provide an opportunity to Canaom xpress in tangible form and in continuous measure

miration, gratitude and sympathy they feel in their

the heroic Russian people—the people who, as Mrs.
recently stated, “have set an unparallelel example to

Av ai
’s needs are so great that everybody’s help is needed.
ters behind the lines, the refugees in far eastern areas
e territories being reoccupied and those already rei by the Red Army need warm clothing, bedding, foodmedical supplies. They need large quantities of these
s, and help to them must go continuously. —
\lready the free peoples the world over, in Great Britain,
States, the Argentine, Palestine, Australia, New Zealand
ith, gmericee countries, have responded magnificently
ia’s needs. In Canada, last year, the Red Cross collected,
‘a public appeal, the sum of $860,000, and now the
Aid to Russia Fund will promote, on a continuous
. to Russia activities throughout the Dominion. Cloth
Ae

try

medicine, food supplies and above all friendship and underaiding, are the things the Canadian Aid to Russia will ask
inadian people to extend.
: is only to be expected that Canadian students will do
t in this great task of good-will through tangible as. We in the universities are in a position to realize the
of freedom; the freedom to live, think and read without
ar of being tossed into a concentration camp. We can
the agony of students and professors who have seen
braries go up in smoke, their classrooms sealed, and
ves subjected to all forms of torture at the hands of the

Up until now, the Russian people have to a great extent
| responsible for keeping the beasts of Berlin away from
oor. Now, through the Canadian Aid to Russia, we have
ance to show our appreciation. We as university students
and should help to the utmost of our ability. A committee
id be set up on the campus through the Students’ Council,
1 with the aid of all the campus societies, this campaign
Id go over in a big way. Here is a chance for every student

reall y do a job for the War Effort. How about it?

Wy

>

va A LETTER TO THE EDITOR
‘finally happened and its birth was painless,

d by members of the editorial board, we had been

| hoping against vain hope that the next mail would bring us a letter

he. editor. It has come and so pleased are we with it that it is printed

full in the middle of this editorial. It is obviously from a college

nt, deduced not from the fact the Gazette is a college newspaper,
“ause of the language of the letter itself. Never has such a collecuf adjectives—each diminishing the potency of the others—come
any but a letter from a student who has at last found there are
é 1 ways of expressing one’s thoughts.

For weeks now,
pacing the floor,

_ Halifax, N. S.,
Nov. 22nd, 1942

quotation would seem to be the
meanderings of a low class moron
with very little semblance to human intelligence.

Why such a stupid, asinine, unintellible, irrelevant article should
usurp what otherwise would be
valuable space in the paper is
utterly beyond our comprehension.

:’ he said, “I have you all
er, Now you are done, done,
e, pun, pun, fun, fun, gong.”
Should the above quotation be
| aS an example of the literpower of a supposedly intelli/ representative of an intellistudent body? |
our estimation this is hardly
ble, in so far as the study of Dalhousie University
higher than average oree nee er

Knowing that this is the opinion of many others, we the authors, trust that this letter will
‘receive print in part or whole so
that the opinions pro and con (if
any) may be expressed.

Yours in the spirit of a better
Dalhousie Gazette,

3 | Weekly Readers.

ay
4 *

journalistic and newspaper fields a tainted stereoome into the writings and policy of the reporter or

a i ation itself. Such a letter as the one we
sshing in that it makes a direct criticism of the

3

L ih Tas ee ‘t sy et ee Wiis h
1 wet oe CY Tae SiO oy er io a, '
7 lg aah Tio at nL eee
ee ~ : Dace Po eee
> bn ih 5!

ve dee | ed
oe ie
>} tad |

‘ 1 i é
‘ ho tt ane ne
‘ ek

i ¥ . fs j
\ sie an
CAS sas
Sa i

+ AA iwi

eof rae
y PR ye Pe
; my

’

7

‘

“in hk 7 Mi F
7 a a, Af Br neh ‘
NTAUR COUL

t

TALK— |

7s
7

Ml LES a
cAP

?

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

» ~— ~— ~~

FARMERS’ MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

—— > ee ee ~— ~— ~— — — ~~ — —. =

THE

MacLeod -Balcom|| FLOWER SHOP

IMITED 37 BLOWERS STREET
. wi HALIFAX

Phone B-7133
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

O

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

Mat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

564%, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

For Your
Christmas List

A Dalhousie ring, in
sterling or gold—from
your family—to you.
Birks carry them in
stock.

WELCOME
TO
DALHOUSIE

Henry Birks & Sons 4

Limited
Registered Jeweller
43 Spring Garden Road

American Gem Society
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing,
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

leading to degrees

The Professional Faculties
in ‘
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course,

about $190 a year.

Residence +
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

~— ~~ ~— ~/

/

f/
v

f/

ae

a peratone
m Ce yas : oF
ba a y 2 ‘ ,
: a; 4 ri, e

+

NOVEMBER
Sparrows clinging to bare twigs,

Pigeons to bare roofs,

This, November, month of varying moods,
And branches naked, leafless in the wind.

This November with the haggard face,

The grey, gaunt face with grim and sorrowing eyes,
And the whole world a twilight shadowed place
Wherein the landscape slowly melts and dies.

This November and a bloodstained sky

Where the cold, clear, glittering day has run its span,
From which the heart turns shudderingly away,
Seeking a fire in the soul of man.

K. R. B.

FOG

The trees stretch leafy fingers through the fog
Which hovers thick and turbid on the night,
Pierced only by the shafts of light from cars
And the brilliant line of street-lamps on the hill.
Buildings like silhouettes in the haze appear,
While shadows moving in the damp, dark streets
Mingle with the night and disappear,

K. R. B.

FOREST STEEPLES

Fir and spruce
Slope upward on the hill

And penetrate a slender scarf of fog. és

They look like steeples, tall, dark, serene—

se

One almost would expect the bells to ring:

Yet only the thud of cones,
The drip of rain,
Calls birds at eventide.

x

Soon winds will huddle in
Moaning soft lullabys;

Birds will fold feathers—
Duck their heads in sleep.

x oH rai 1m

\

the depths of swaying branches

But the line of forest steepies marching solemnly skyward.
Must continue to ring silent chimes

In the night.

K. R. B.

Secrest TC
FAMILY TIES

Have you ever differed with the
age-old and awe inspired conception
of relationship, feeling that a few
social aspects of family ties might
well change? I have.

Typifying this are some of the
Christmas presents that relatives
consider so very appropriate for
Jackie—the inevitable white handkerchief form Aunt Nora (such a
welcome gift!) and the traditional
drab and colorless tie from Uncle
Bob. Such articles are generally
relegated to the farthest corner of
the attic whence mother rescues
them next year for the white-elephant table at the church bazaar.

Equaily unnecessary is the procedure of visiting remote family
connections with mother.

“They particularly want to see
you dear so try to be your own
charming self...”

Two or three ladies rush to the
coor, at the first knock, and bare
their fangs in expression of their
delight in seeing you. When this
uncalled for pleasantry has exhausted itself, the crowd merges into the
living room, the women break into
frenzied chatter, and you are iso
articles the reader does not want to see in the Gazette,

lated in a corner with a peppermint
lozenge.

Homes might well be spared the
annual prolonged visit from GreatAunt Ella. This individual arrives
every winter, without fail, along with
the influenza and the snowdrifts.
From the largest chair in the warmest corner she delights to denounce
all things modern, to adjudicate on
family controversies and generally
to disrupt the household System.
After a month or so she feels she
can be of no more help, and sorrowfully departs to visit another relative.

I could do without such remarks
asi “My how syou’ve grown dear
boy!” and “Give your own Cousin
Ressie a big kiss,” or “Last time I
Saw you, you were just—so—high.”

This drivel usually eminates from
the lips of careworn spinsters who
drop in every decade to express bewildered surprise that I have grown
in the interval.

And now, with the wishful expectation that Uncle Bob’s next tie will
be pink with yellow Spots, this illuminating article closes.

J. C. MeL.

and will make

the newspaper itself try to better the article under criticism. We feel

that such a letter is definitely helpful in allowing us to

policy for reader appeal,

form a better

A few issues ago, the Gazette fell into disrepute among many of the
Faculty and for a week the inner ferment of college authority gave seri
ous consideration to the condition this
At a meeting with Dr. Stanley and Deans,
directed to the paper for certain articles,
The accusation of one student made to

sponsible for this.

paper had allegedly fallen into.
quite obvious criticism was
and jokes which had appeared.
University authorities was re
It was of no avail to make the excuse we were following the policy

of former Gazettes: the
nothing to stand on then.
argument. If that person

President threw the argument out. We had
And yet it is a basic and very fundamental
who made the complaint had sent a letter to

the editor, much of the trouble might have been averted that way; we

are susceptible to public o
other newspapers, and the

pinion. We were only patterning ourselves on
Gazette in particular.

The student’s method was criminal to the student body itself. The

higher authorities at this Universi
with student affairs, and indeed
of the Students’ Council.

ty aretoo busy to have to be bothered
Such affairs fall under the jurisdiction

 
 

 

    
 
    
     
    
   
      
         
      
       
    
    
  
     
   
     
    
 
   
   
   
   
    
 
    
 

This cosy little picture was taken in one of the Gymnasium classes,
Philosophy One. These intellectual athletes are wrapped up in their professor’s discourse, except one who is hell-bent for a full face tilt in this
picture. Note carefully piled books, fingers in mouths.

}

QUOTE and UNQUOTE

We are beginning to think that arguments in the old boy meets girl
set-up are definitely worthwhile. So do two Shirreff Hall freshettes who
sent their boys away caroling “One Dozen Roses” and, lo and behold, the
flowers arrived the next day. Names on request.

According to eye witness accounts, “Sparky” MacLean and his new
flame enjoyed the Hi Y Dance last Friday very much. The padding in
“Sparky’s” coat came in for a certain limited use.

Since the new Navy building has been occupied, we notice how many
Shirreffites and others return from the Library the long way around,
What will you have girls? C.0O.T.C. or R.C.N.? They are both here and
the Library is open every night.

Johnny Hibbet is a stranger to this columnist ,but even so, we’d like
to know the identity of the blonde from whom he’s been opening doors
lately.

What have these MacDonalds got that the rest of us haven’t?
Namely, Mavis Bimson and Ed Stack.

The prospects of hard study does not seem to discourage the Harmony
Club on the third floor of Shirreff Hall. We were visiting over there the
other day and came away sadly disillusioned, though happy in the
knowledge that the Club does not plan to present any public performance.

Since answering Mac’s letter several other worried souls have come to
us for guidance and advice. Here is one:

Dear Dotty, I am from the City of Bright Lights, now attending
University here. Since arriving I have fallen for a very sweet girl, but
her friends seem to object to me and see that she is adequately chaperoned at all times. I am so desperate that I have even given her my phone
number. I am telling you, Dotty, it is driving me crazy. What shall I do
that I have not already done ?—Big Shot.

ANSWER: You can do nothing.more. In fact you have done too
much already. You should launch a similar campaign. Surround yourself
with friends and chaperones. It may make her jealous. However, we
earnestly advise you to let the light of your love flicker out. We presume
that you came from south of the border before the American “dim-out”
regulations. Try it here; she’s obviously not your type. Toujours l’amour,

DOTTY

 

 

 

 

So You Live
In Dartmouth

“Oh, do you really live in Dartmouth? Goodness, you must have to
| get up in the middle of the night to
_ arrive here in time!” That has been
|the bromidic exclamation of many
'Haligonians (We know the meaning
“bromidie”, too). Actually, our
formula for getting up is simple:

 
    

  

Dalhousie,
Meet...

| of

iclimb into your
| your breakfast in a manner contrary
to all health rules, and scramble.
Not so different from a Halifax
timetable, is it? The result is that
the 8:15 ferry is graced with your
| presence.

learn almost as much as we are supposesd to know. Haligonians who
have never sailed the ocean blue
eannot fully appreciate the benefit
of the extra fifteen minutes spent in
crossing, They are going to be especially useful when the examinations come along, too. Besides, think
of the extra benefits of getting a
whiff of sea air to waken you up!
Or, if you got up too early (they
say this happens sometimes. Personally, we don’t beleive it), you
can always find a secluded corenr

 

Henrik Tonning, or Henry as he
is usually called, President of Students’ Council.. Born in Stavanger,
Norway, and came to Canada in 1930.
His home is now in Black’s Harbour
New Bruswick.

While in Norway, Henry attended
the Norwegian “Stor Haug’, and

te ett
CA LCE

|Waken any time between 7 and 7:45 |
clothes, swallow |

If the ferry had a brain, it could |

STUDLEY HIT PARADE: With
all frivolous(?) ideas being tossed
aside in preparation for studying,
(the Christmas exams are getting
nearer, you know) there is little to
report on this front. Irving Berlin’s
“White Christmas” has settled in
for an indefinite run as the nation’s
favorite, and Dalsters are humming
and playing it everywhere. The
first sentimental hit of the new season, the song is setting up sales records for sheet music and recordings.
Anyway it’s a lovely melody and
well deserving of .its popularity.
“Praise the Lord and Pass the Ammunition” is also popular, and we’re
afraid that we’ll be hearing it for a
long, long time.

%: ¥ *

THE VERSATILE MR. ROSE: |
David Rose used to be known as
the chap Judy Garland married. Today he’s riding high in the music
world with nation-wide recognition
aS a composer of definite ability
and a conductor of talent. Until now,
Mr. Rose’s main activities have been
connected with radio, but recently
he made several recordings with his
gorgeous orchestra for Victor. The
first of these, “Our Waltz” and “Hol- |
iday for Strings” (Victor 27853) has
been released this month, and -conrary to our preference to not rave
over a single record, we find we must
thow all caution to the winds in ac- |
claiming this release to be one of
the most charming and beautiful
records of the past several years.
“Our Waltz’, an original, is Mr.
Rose’s theme,, and, believe us, it’s
an exquisite and truly lovely composition. His arrangement features
his huge string section, aided by
rich, mellow woodwinds and muted
brassess, while a harp adds much to
the effect. The reverse, “Holiday”
is a gay and lilting melody in complete contrast to the waltz. The
strings, plucked pizzicato, demonstrate the versatility and technical
perfection of his organization. Oc
 

A Column of Record News and Reviews

ty
by te

Mere ey ers yo sn eet

casional sweeping string passages
afford constrast. Really, the record’s
a gift at seventy-five cents.

THE RECORD BUSINESS: Seyveral days ago we were asked if the
record business was going to pieces
due to the war. Despite the shortage
of shellac, and the AFM ban on all
new recordings, popular and classical alike, the record business has
never been bigger. Last year over
one hundred million records were
sold; more are expected to be sold
this year. True, the record companies are only issuing one or two
new record each week, (Victor is
now releasing two Victor and two
Bluebird records, while Columbia
contents herself with three every
two weeks) but what they’re lacking
in quantity, they’re gaining in quality. Records have never been at such
a high standard of technical and artistic excellence as they are today.
Vital statistics come from Miss Watt
at Phinney’s, who, besides being a
wonderful person herself, knows
more about records than anyone else
in this city.

OUTSTANDING SINGLE RECORDS: XAVIER CUGAT—“Aversidad” and “En La Plantacion” on
Victor 27973. The first new Cugat
record in several months brings him
back to the Victor Label. “Aversidad” is a bolero son with a smooth
unusual melody, and features a
haunting sub-tone clarinet  soelo.
“Plantacion” is a slow rhumba of
the “Sibonney”. Cugat’s orchestration has an interesting chimes effect
and the vocal by the rich voice of
Miguelito Valdes is in Spanish, Both
sides are plentifully decorated with
the flute and marimba passages that
have become Cugat’s musical trademark.

ALSO RECORDMENDED: Dinah
Shore’s Victorecording of “Dearly
Beloved” and “Why Don’t You Fall
in Love With Me?” (the season’s
smartest lyrics torchingly warbled
hy the incomparable Dinah).

 

 

|
|
|
|

 

The Engineering Society have had |
two bang-up meetings so far this |
term, President Don Moir in the)
chair. At both meeting there were}
70 per cent of all Engineers present
—a truly remarkable turn-out, showing growing drafftingroom enthusiam.

Interfaculty managers were ap-|
pointed: Hagen for football (win- |
ners of the league), Campbell for |
basketball (last year’s winners) and |
Wiswell for hockey. Jack Winter- |
bourne was appointed to look into
the matter of getting a new Engin- |
eering crest made. It is thought that |
the old crest is obsolete and a more)

“dashing” and is

needed.

impressive one

Thursday was set for the society
picture to be taken. Hall was asked to take it as he can sell it to the

| students at a cheaper rate. A pic-| /

ture of the championship football
team is also to be taken.

Andy Hisenhauer brought up the
bright idea of having Engineering
Christmas made—amnd the
sample being approved he was unamiously asked to get some made.

 

cards

Incidently, 35 dozen cards have been |
|ordered and may be had from Andy |
about December 1,

A Boilermakers’ Ball committee of
Bennett, Hagen, Wilson and Wiswell was appointed. There was some
argument as to where it should be

‘held as the hotels are so expensive

this year. The Waeg and Gym were

suggested but not approved. In
|cidentally, a tentative date of Jan
in one of the cabins and catch up
on your forty winks| |

When the new ferry starts running, the fashion in running for the
boat will be to’ contrive to catch
the new one. Then we will sail

across in even greater comfort. Yes, |
|feud on as to who was going to

when the “Governor Cornwallis” |
makes her maiden voyage, we can |

 

reasonably hope that the people of
the capital city of Nova Scotia will |

uary 15 at the Lord Nelson has been
arranged, but final plans are yet
to be made. Whether or not the En
|gineers will combine with the Meds

again this year was left up to the

| Committee.

'This week Burgess is back in the

news. For a while there was a great

court Jackie, but it all seems settled
now. We know he was sitting in the
very best of seats at the Capitol

 

/HALIFAX 
 

 

) HALIFAX

 

 

 

 

“How about
a Coke date’”’

ws ae
A BRE.

7%
““We’ve been ‘goin’ steady’ a

  

long time, you and I. You see;
I’m a symbol of the life and
sparkle of Coca-Cola. Therefore, | speak for Coke. | like
your company. I offer some
thing more than a thirst
TRADE MARK

quenching drink. It’s refreshing. Yes siree... it's
got that extra something
you can’t get this side of

Delicious and

Coca-Cola itself. Let’s get
Refreshing

r together. Make it a Coke
Se were ” date. "

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

HALIFAX
652

 

DALHOUSIANS ...
for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
NOVA SCOTIA

CAPITOL
*

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

Fader’s Drug Stores /
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

EDWARD ARNOLD

      
   

oobi SOD eek

 

Nova Scotia

|| EYES IN THE NIGHT

Pid os

 

GARRICK
*

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“MANILLA CALLING” |
Lloyd Nolan -- Carol Landis |

ERROL FLYNN

a ee

GENTLEMAN JIM

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday
“YANK IN LIBYA”
“GALLANT LADY”

 

CASINO
*

Starting Saturday, Nov. 28

JOE E. BROWN

sihles BED steele

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“RUBBER RACKETEERS”
“GUNMEN FROM BODIE”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“THE HIDDEN HAND”
“FIGHTING BILL FARGO”

 

after coming to Canada, he took his

“THE DARING

>

matriculation from the High School
at Black’s Harbour. After finishing
school, he worked for a time in an
accountant’s office, and then came
to Dalhousie .in 1937. Taking Science
affiliated with Medicine, he received
his B. Sec. in 1940, and the same
year, he won the Professor R.J. Bean

he was awarded a Kellog scholarship for Fourth Year Medicine.
Sush a formidable record in studies
would make one think that Henry
would hardly have time for anything
else except studying. But besides

make a trip on her, and stop off at
the north shore to see the beauty
spots, (of which we have several,
we're sure) in the second largest
town in the province. Wood Bros.’
may not have a Dartmouth store,
but does Halifax have a branch of
Wing Kee’s honorable establish
last Thursday and also that he had
the very best of audiences later on

in the evening.
* * ox

Anybody interested in finding out
things about Shirreff Hall ask Freshman Dick Currie. His first “taste of
Hall” went over in a big way appar
OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“THE MAJOR AND
THE MINOR”

GINGER ROGERS

YOUNG MAN”
*

—— EXTRA HIT! ——

 

“EYES OF THE
UNDERWORLD”

with LON CHANEY

| i i nt?
s prize in the first year medical His- me

i)
Wels
Cm
eer
a tology and Embryology. Last year
|) = he won the Pathology prize offered
in Third Year Medicine. This year

being the president of the Students’
Council, h is also the president of'
Fourth Year Medicine, and the president of Phi Chi.

ently, and not only did Jean have a

P.S.—This is meant to wake up| good time but there were a few more

non-Dartmouthians,—with malice to-| prominent Hall girls who were thrillwards none. ; ed to see him.

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“WAKE ISLAND”
with BRIAN DON LEVY

 

 

  

 
 

  

 
  

 

va WE th i iit :

ORT - Q-SCOPE

by ED MORRIS
HUET AAT UUUVO.OUCUSQOUOUEONOE UE SAOAO ENERO
jutely ‘fhe he reference this column will make to the subjject
a. this year comes by way of congratulation to a St. F. X. team

of ae “Tarp” Walsh and fourteen others upon whose collective

 

5 heme and coins tactics at the disposal of the Army squad, the Anti
___ gonish boys controlled the play all the way home. The mighty “Tarp”,
, - idol of Mount Saint Bernard girls, Yo-ho High School, and the Dingle

_Testaurant of fame immemorial, settled down to the rather boring task
of eluding four stalwart soldiermen who were blissfully ignorant that
_ such a technique left the rest of the game rther one-sided. Just for the
hell of it Mr. Walsh did a few sheenanigans of hi sown, including a few

-s _eross-field runs that made the Army look like a host of superannuated

jeeps. Well, our hats are off to you, St. F. X. Next year you may come

hack and get the toupees.
And then there was the field

i x hockey game of Tuesday. With a
little practise and the acquisition
of some underhand finesse, this thing
-—s may easily supplant gun-murders.

The regulation approach to the extermination of your opponent re
: _ sides in the swinging of the crooked

stick from way down and simply
bopping said opponent on top of
eranial structure. If you happen
to be the mild-mannered type, and
_ dislike the sight of blood and such,
you have only to wrap. the stick
around said opponent’s neck and
haul away home. Of course there
are a few other fine points to be
picked up here and there, such as
hooking the feet while running,
smashing shins, rapping knuckles,
et cetera.

Mercenary-minded souls might be
interested to know that a modest
fortune awaits the one who can concoct a workable garb for this socalled sport. The elementary prerequisites consist of six inchings of
felt padding all over with reinforced
steel and corrugated iron slats at
vital points.

Decision of the mentors of City
Senior Hockey League to disband
for the season, due to a slight diserepancy of $300 per week between
expenses and income, offers but
slight encouragement for the advoeates of intercollegiate contests.
Despite the increase in patronage
that might be expected from the
closing down of the senior loop, the
unpleasant fact remains that the operators of the Halifax Arena, like
most good business men do not want
to engage in a schedule that may
result in actual loss to say nothing
of breaking even. And after all that
is only to be expected. Until such
time as we achieve the Valhalla

where it won’t be necessary to bribe
students to come out and support
their team we are almost certain to
run up against difficulties whenever
hockey loops come up for discussion.

Most students subconsciously favor the creation of a really go-ge-’em
league, possibly with team from St.
Mary’s, Tech and one or two service
squads. Skating sessions following
the games may provide the clue to
the puzzling problem of financing
such a project. Fundamentally the
decision as to whether an intercollegiate league will operate this
winter lies with the students who
must decide, and decide now, whether they will support it to the full.

Planning such a loop would be rather treacherous work if some accurate forecast were not made as
to the probable student reception.
If financial arrangements can be
ironed out to the satisfaction of all
concerned we may yet see a really
good hockey season in the offing.

The slap of basketball on the Gym
floor should be music to the ears of
those who take an active interest
in the traditional indoor game. The
showing to date has been somewhat
above average although the floor is
plenty large to accommodate a few
more aspirants. Regular practise
sessions are now in full swing, with
more in the immediate future. The
one disappointing fact, quite- probably uncontrollable, is that these preexamination turnouts barely get
started when they must taper off
again. That leaves plans for the
post-vacation period hanging in midair and delays the whole routine.
Working schedules, posted now or at
least within the next fortnight,
might correct this situation somewhat.”

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

_ In a recent issue certain unfavorable remarks have been published about the game of ping-pong which I feel should be cor
rected.

First, I would like to state that a ping-pong player is an athlete,
not a he-man. The game is essentially built on speed and requires
skill and dexterity. A good ping-pong player can drive his opponent
back from the end of the table fifteen or twenty feet, and can himself go back that distance in order to retrieve a hard driven ball.
Anyone who is rather slow either physically or mentally better try

some less arduous sport.

A football player or any other so-called “athlete” who relies on
power and brute force need not try ping-pong. It would be too difficult, for it takes more power and strength. It takes speed and deception, outwitting one’s” opponent, skill in placing the ball where the

other fellow

“ain’t”, sharp eyes, and a clear head. ,

If a certain college sports editor does not agree with the above,
I cordially invite him to be present when the finals of the current

tournament are being held.

BILL POPE.

HUSIEATMOELONALE AUTEN AUN NS

 
 
   
   
  
 

UAIVOOQSOCAA ULAR TT

Dalhousie basketball squads are
already limbering up in preparation
for Senior and Intermediate games
after the New Year. Tigers are entered into the Halifax Senior League
with H.M.C. King’s and Stadacona,
Army, “Y” Depot, and Y. M. C. A.
Cubs will contend with Y. M.C.A.,
Army, Navy, Dartmouth R.C. A. F.,
and Eastern Air Command.

Of last year’s squad, only Dunbrack Is left. Around him the quarter-finalists of last year’s Dominion
tourney will rebuild. Other league
teams will commence their games
shortly and Dal will get into action
after Christmas.

Coach Ralston is not too optimististic about team chances, though
he praised the speed of his men.
Most of the players are on the
short side, and can’t compare with
the spreading antlers of “Moose”
MacLeod, or Wilson and Smith of
last year’s champions.

However, Burney isn’t pessimistic
at all, and expects better than average showing by both Dal teams.
Clarie Fraser is manager, and Mackie Campbell, assistant manager.

Turning out for this year’s squad
are Ian Campbell, Dave Fraser, Jim
Darey, D. Clark, Churchill-Smith,
Sukol. Bill Pope, Gus Oakley, all
freshmen or newcomers; Verne Graham and Matheson, first times out;
Bruce Bauld, Don Stewart, Jack
Charman and Zatzman, of last
year’s Intermediates, and Charlie
Dunbrack of last year’s Seniors.

 

Mixed Ping-Pong
Initiated At Dal

A mixed doubles ping-pong tournament was held on Friday to celebrate the acquisition of a new table
on the Gym stage. Mixed doubles
can be played here at any time, and
it is hoped that the table will be
much used. Fourteen couples entered’ for the tournament, and some
exciting games were played. In the
finals, Bill Pope and Pat Hollis defeated David Churchill-Smith and
Ann Saunderson, 21-18, 21-12, 21-17.
Other semi-finalists were Doug
Frazer and Renee Garrett, and
George Mosher and Joan Woodbury.

There will be a bigger and better
mixed doubles ping-pong tournament
next term.

“IBesketbell Pea: i Team —
Chances Prophecied as ‘Fair’

ies ee lg ee ee eT

CAMPUS CLIPPINGS—
Continued from page 1

Council requested that the eighteen
aliens be admitted to the University.
If these students are refused admission to Universities they have to return to the internment camps.

View.

“You’ve left off your medals,”

Shapped the Major.

The man looked down at his chest,
“Great Scott”, he cried, “I forgot to
take them off my pajamas.”

—Queen’s Journal.

Ve wey
Corn?

Stephens: “Why do they call this
Fiddle Hotel.”

Stephenson:
vile inn.”

“Because it’s such a

—The Reflex

Vvyv
Students, of McGill have the right
spirit. In the course of the next
week every student of McGill will

Plans Being Made
For Mt. A. Residence

SACKVILLE, N.B.—(CUP)—The
Treasurer of Mount Allison University reported this week that threequarters of the funds necessary for
the construction of a new Men’s
Residence have already been obtained. The contract for the building cannot be authorized until the
full sum is subscribed. The insurance
on the previous building, destroyed
by fire December 17, 1941, amounting to $150,000, has been invested
in Dominion of Canada bonds and
earmarked for the new Residence.
Of the remaining $100,000, $25,900
has been donated by business firms,
$21,277 by Alumni, and promises
amounting to $25,000 bring the
amount up to three-quarters of the
total.

Plans are to build the central unit
of a three-building group first. The
central structure will house about
125 students, and each of the others
about 80 apiece. The units will be
three stories in height, and of completely fireproof construction. They
will occupy an area comprising the
site and grounds of the previous
building, between the Owens Museum of Fine Arts and University
Field.

YOUR SUITS WILL

Look Newer

 

Last Longer

 

 

be called upon to contribute to ‘the
McGill Amalgamated Charities Cam
paign. The money which is obtained | |

in the drive is apportioned among
the three large charities of Montreal.
—McGill Daliy
eee

Pome
I think that I shall never see
A man refuse a meal that’s free,,
A man with greedy eyes not fixed
Upon a drink that’s being mixed;
A man who doesn’t like a swig of rye
And a lot of suits to match that one
red tie.

Men are loved by gals like me,
But who the h—would kiss a tree?

—Queen’s Journal

We We

It’s remarkable how many doubtful meanings an allegedly pureminded person can find in an entireiy respectable joke.

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C.A. Building Halifax
Phone B-6881

 

Quality Shoes
For Fall

Now is the time to Buy
Boots and Shoes for

Men and Women.

Wallace Bros.
Limited

415 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. S.

     

For Sporting
Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

Call on

      
     
          
  
 
 
 

PIANOS —- CHURCH ORGANS
SHEET MUSIC - RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

        
   

 

November 27, 1942

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

B-9754
We Cater to Collegians

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP
Four Experienced Barbers

 

— Sa he ee,

ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Y.M.C. A. Building ~ B-7530
381 Baarrington Street
31 Spring Garden Road — B-6440
We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

 

"Need Life Insurance —

WHO - ME?”

The younger you are when you
take out your first life insurance
policy, the lower your premium
will be,

So, you should start thinking
about your life insurance wher you
get your first salary cheque.

Will you need insurance? Yes—
unless you intend to live like a
hermit without human contacts and
responsibilities. One day you may
have a home of your own to keep,
a family to provide for. One day
you may need security for a business loan; and, some distant day,
you will certainly need money for
your own retirement.

There are Mutual Life policies
that can do all these things. When
the time comes for you to buy life
insurance, see a Mutual Life representative. He will help you to pian
the right kind and amount of
insurance protection to suit your
special needs.

DO NOT OVERLOOK YOUR OBLIGATION
TO PURCHASE VICTORY BONDS AND

WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
THE

MUTUAL FE

ESTABLISHED 1869
“Owned by the Policyholdess”

~

 

  

Basil Winters

LIMITED

Ene) ;
ee
ae

= a
thy Sa

we

    
   
  

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

as

383 BARRINGTON STREET

STUIUOOQ0 002000000 0000200000000 UER AES

     
 

& There’s nothing like it to make fabrics 7
sparkle, to keep them feeling soft and fresh
to maintain shapely, stylish lines. A good
ua wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes —
Roe , send what you have to Cousins often.
_ Now Showing |
FALL AND WINTER The best

 

LIMITED

CLEANERS LAUNDERERS DYERS STORAGE

chocolate made

  

MEN’S SUITS AND
FURNISHINGS.

Sab U00OOUNININSNOEETILIENNSUSDOO AUDEN SESE

A ToC

     
