 

4

 

ty

tm

  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
     
     
       
    
    
      
 

tay

  
   
  
    
 
 

VOL. LXXV

 

 

LXXV

Candidates For
Student’s Council
Presidency

First Studley candidate in five years
is Engineering Student Bill Hagen.
Active in sports
since his arrival
here at Dal, during
this, his last year,
he played Senior
a football for the D.

A.A.C. For this he

 

Hagen
will receive a Dal “D” on Munro
Day. Bill has also been connected
with the Glee Club, and for his
handling of the lighting and sets
was awarded a “D” on 1942’s award
list. Recently Bill was promoted

from Regimental Sergeant-Major
and received his commission as
second-lieutenant in the Dal-King’s
C.O.T.C.

When questioned on his aspira
 

Candidates
For Election

Fanfareless and without the suggestion of a platform, Dalhousie
candidates have emerged from their
faculties and Dal students may be
expected to vote for them Tuesday.
Polls are open in the Gymnasium on
the big electoral date, and ballots
will be cast by presentation of
Council ticket for identification.

The line-up of candidates follows:

President: Tom Patterson or Bill
Hagen. 4s

Vice-Presidents: Laura MacKenzie, Lorraine Johnston, and Ken
MacKinnon.

Medicine: S. Madden, Art Titus,

Phil MacDonald (two seats).
Dental: Jeff Bagnall, Art Ervin.
Law: Charles O’Connell and Mary

Kinley.

Engineering: Bruce Bauld, Gerald

Lants, and John MacQuarrie (two

ALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 26, 1943

Lucky Commerce, Always in the Middle

Forum Settles
Council Seats

Engineers Gain Seat At Arts

Science Expense; Medicine ©
Dental Fee Question Cleared

by Laurie Alllison

 

Spring is in the air, and so is Dalhousie college spirit—at
long last. For, at noon on Thursday, instead of the meagre
and non-committal groups that have been turning up at socalled Varsity meetings, there assembled a crowd of such magnitude as ao create standing’ room only in the Chemistry
Theatre. From the open windows of the auditorium floated
the mellow sounds of male harmony. But then came the great
surprise: those weren’t Engineers crooning away, but the

unfit. The debate will be held in

   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
   
 

. - > » + at . 3?
tions towards this venture into cam- sents) 7
tet ‘ a t- Satey ,Commerce: To be nominated topus politics, Bill said, “I’ve always eee
ne my best for Dalhousie, and will Be ae : ;
if . e wi Arts and Science: Seniors—Jean
continue to do so.” Refraining from ;
MacDonald, Susan Morse, Boris

making any campaign promises, or
assuming any obligation that he
can’t fulfill, Bill says, “the less
promises I make, the less I can
break.”

Funt, Larry Sutherland (one male,
female, Juniors — Barbara White,
Joan Vaughan, Malcolm Mitchell,
Carl Little (one seat). Sophomore
—KEileen Phinney and Laurie AlliMedical candidate |son (one seat only).
- for Students’ Coun_ cil presidency is
popular Tom Patterson. This is his
thidr year at Dal,
and he was elected
to the position of
vice-president.
When Henrik Tonning went into fifth
year Medicine and left Halifax, and
consequently the Council, Tom took
over the reins and was Acting President for the remainder of the year.
Keenly interested in Council activities, Tom has devoted most of
his outside activities during . his
years here to Council affairs, and
many constitutional revisions may
be traced to him. Campus poliscientists are impressed with Patterson’s
ability, and term him “an able man.”

Important Changes

 

Munro Day Looms
War Services Day

Munro Day this year will be different. The Students’ Council has
decided that it will be a WAR SERVICES DAY. One of the charities
that will benefit will be the International Student Service. When you
come to the gym on March 9 you
will be asked to sign your caution
deposit to IS.S. That means that
you will be asked to sign on the
dotted line a paper saying that you
are voluntarily turning over your
fee to the ISS Committee, and they
will collect it at the University Office. It will amount to something
like $1.25 per person, and if everybody helps out a sizable amount of
lucre will be gained.

What ISS is: It is an international

 

Patterson

 

. M organization that helps students in
Face Science en war time. Dal’s chief interest is
Important changes have been that our money will help to send

books to Canadian and Rritish prisoners of war. They want to study,
and to read. This is the only way
that their need can be met. ISS
also aids Chinese and Russian students who have been driven by the
invader from their former universities, and who are now studying in
very inadequate colleges. By giving
your caution deposit to ISS you not
only help our boys, you strengthen
(Continued on page 4)

Prof. G. F. Curtis.
Promoted To Lieut.

Retroactive to Dec. 19, 2nd Lieut.
G. F. Curtis has been promoted to a
full Lieutenant, as the result of examinations on that date at Aldershot. Lieutenant Curtis entered the
O.T.C. two seasons ago, won quick
promotion to a Corporal, and then
qualified for a commission, taking
over a company at Aldershot. He is
O.C. of “A” company.

* * *

It has been definitely decided not
to hold the planned O.T.C. Ball,
Major Hogan revealed. Not ‘enough
interest was shown in the social to

* * * :

Results of “M” tests undertaken
by all officers, the A. and T. staffs,
and cadets qualifying for Brookville

. =. ® a ee een

Applications for the positions of | receive their hs
| Editor and oaiee Manager of the |
, should be for- | Cancel

PL

made in the military and industrial
commitments of science students, as
the result of a meeting between faculty and students of Technical College, St. Mary’s, and Dalhousie with
high ranking officials of Selective
Service, together with Major Hogan
and officers of other 0.T.C.’s.
Discussing summer employment,
the final decision is that undergraduates must have special forms filled
out at Selective Service headquarters before they can apply for a job,
and after getting the form, it has to
get approval by Selective Service.
All students in science will have
medical examinations sometime this
month and the graduates of this
(Continued on page 4)

One Moment Please

Formal announcement of the resignation of Mrs. Phyllis Wray Barrett, physical instructress at Dalhousie, is expected shortly. Reason

Attention all students! There will
be a debate between Dalhousie and
Acadia on March ist at 8 p.m. The
subject is Resolved that Arts courses be abolished for the duration of
the war, except for those medically

 

 

Room 8 of the Arts Building, and
ail students interested ate asked to

’ *
pe _— =

wy RB cores, Plkide . va
in ons ‘| thee &

would-be M.D.’s of future years, who were out in force and
naturally accompanied by the Dents.

Med-Dent Emancipation

Medical student Tom Patterson
was in the chair, and introduced the
two important constitutional changes, for which the meeting was called;
first, “ruled that medical and dental
students in their final years, be exempt from paying Council fees for
the duration of their exhilerated
courses.” The main argument of the
Forrest students was that no fee
should be paid during the summer
months because no collegiate benefits can be derived from payment.

" Many students at Studley were in
clined to think that the Meds would
always have enough money from
their army pay to compensate for
the loss of the ten dollar Council
fee.

But Studley students failed to take
into consideration the fact that the
boys at Forrest had no chance to
make any money from summer employment, which previously helped
to keep down their already heavy
expenses, “After about half and hour
of bitter argument, Chairman Patterson called upon those present to
vote on the motion, resulting in an
almost unanimous affirmative for the
men of Medicine and Dentistry.

Engineers Move

Next came the great plea from
the Engineers, for the addition of
another engineering seat to the Student’s Council to be taken from the
Faculty of Commerce, which possessed one seat on the Council. For the
next twenty minutes utter confusion
reigned, during which time Commerce was somehow forgotten. A
motion was then read by the chairman requesting that the Engineering

DIPOe

 

Faculty have two members on the
Council for the duration of the war.
Are Helped to Win

The Engineers were all the more
encouraged by the support they obtained from the Forrest students,
which caused more anxiety among
Arts and Science students than
among the Commerce students, who
were literally few and far between.
When order was at last restored,
the chairman called for a vote on this
motion also, and it was carried by
a large majority in favor of the Engineering Faculty.

Commerce Seat

Then came that question again—
what will happen to that Commerce
seat? Will it remain in it’s present
position thus increasing the Council
members to sixteen, or will it be
struck off the list? Some bright
soul answered “tune in next week and
find out for yourself; ’m tonguetied.” But minds were on a much
higher plane (for the moment at
least). An Engineer then proposed
that a seat be taken from the Arts
and Science Faculty.

But Arts and Science business was
not on the agenda of the meeting,
and if it was to be discussed, bulletins should have been posted a week
in advance of the meeting. A Science
student then moved that the Commerce problem could be solved, by
Commerce giving up its seat to the
Engineers, and then regaining its
seat by taking one away from Arts
and Science. In this way the Arts
and Science question could be involved without having to hold another meeting.

Costanaes on page two

 

Dalhousie Institute of
Public Opinion

DO YOU THINK THAT GANDHI SHOULD BE RELEASED
FROM IMPRISONMENT?
Evidently the majority of students have little sympathy for Gandhi

    
   
  

ree ongangea ie

in his hunger strike. The feeling runs high that this is a rather underhand
method of achieving a goal. and should not be acceded to. Many expressed the opinion that merely releasing Gandhi would not solve the Indian problem,*and that the fundamental causes of discontent should be
alleviated first. Many pointed out the critical situation that might develop if Gandhi were to die, but, despite this, they were against releasing
him. In actual figures, 68% were against releasing Gandhi, while 382%
thought he should be released.

Most comments were unfavorable to Gandhi. They varied from the
curt, challenging, “let him die”, to the more serious though not less depreciating description, “He is a silly, egotistical, publicity-seeker who
throughout his whole career has sought more attention than his talents
ever warranted.” Others saw in Gandhi one of the greatest and most
forceful political leaders of our day.

WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE SADIE HAWKINS
ISSUE OF THE GAZETTE?

Some students thought the co-ed issue surpassed the usually high (?)
journalistic standards of the Gazette. An exceptionally high percentage,
55%, admitted that the issue was “good”. Another 25% thought is was
fair’. Of the remaining 20% some had not read the issue, while others
did not fully appreciate “the woman’s touch” in literature.

WHOM WOULD YOU CHOOSE AS “THE GIRL MOST
LIKELY TO BE WHISTLED AT” ON THE CAMPUS?

This question caused mete a stir among the boys, who in their ex
hough of tin imp

    
  

LiTTAL)

——

by pod laiemneey= Neneeiee ee

ee

 
  

 
  
 

— eee LL LLL LLL LLL LLL

    

Dalhousie Gazette

No. 17

 

Sadie Hawkins Leads Way As
One Of Year’s Great Socials

 

2
eae

—

—Photo by Oland.

Amey of Divinity, O’Toole of Pharmacy
Other Costumes Were More and More of Less and Less
ed eed i Leda relates
After trailing down to Pine Hill,

: resh Fields Shown
Friday and Sunday

Amid the welter of confusion and
backstage noise that always accompanies such a preceeding, the cast
of Fresh Fields held their dress rehearsal Tuesday night. Despite the
conditions under which they worked
(there were dozens of people rushing
frantically around daubing wet paint
on everything in sight) the cast went
through the nerve-wracking ordeal
with the aplomb afforded by the considerable experience that most of the
cast possesses.

The first person we observed was
Vincent Allen (he fills the butler’s
role), distractedly looking for the
silver entree dishes which form an
important part of first act proper
ties. Suddenly a scream of laughter
rent the midnight air (“B” Coy, C.
O.T.C.) had long since been tucked

in their trundle beds). It was Joan
Archibald seeing herself in the mirror for the first time in the costume
and make-up of the rich character
part of Mrs. Pidgeon. The costume
(we use the word in its fullest sense)
brought howls of laughter from the
assembled cast, and it is taken for
granted that the audience will follow
suit.

At the conclusion of Act II, Scene
I, it was decided to change the color

of the set. The remainder of the
rehearsal went on, unmindful of
Messrs. Wiswell and Hagen who

crawled around the set they constructed, altering the perfectly acceptable pinkish-buff color to a light
gray-blue. Verner Gordon is looking
after properties and has successfully
ransacked furniture stores to provide
highly attractive properties.

The Dalhousie Glee Club will present this three-act comedy on Friday night, February 26, to an audience of students and friends.

The curtain will rise at 8.15, and
it is planned at present to admit no
one during the first act, but ask
late comers to wait until thé intermission. Don Lowe’s popular orchestra will play between acts and
after the performance for the danc
ing crowd. Eresh. Fields will also

have a special production on Sunday

rane 28, as" benefit en

and all other far-away points in this
fair city, to collect their would-be
Little Abners’, and after waiting
| hours while the boys powdered their
noses and put last minute touches
on their coiffures, the girls dragged
them to the Gym and held open that
very heavy door to let the boys enter
first a la Sadie Hawkins. Depositing them at the stairs, with warnings not to be too long, the girls
dashed to get coats off ete. The
shrieks that abounded warned those
upstairs of lots and lots of short
skirts and pigtails, but once upstairs
the girls found themselves to be
equalled, if not bettered by their
partners. Bottles, empty, of course,
were common, either tied round the

 

 

      
      
    

waist with cord, or placed in the hip
pocket, and we noticed one handsomely dressed individual with an
alarm clock, which persisted in ringing every so often. Whether he
brought it to remind himself that he
should be in early, or whether it was
just a gentle hint to this partner
that the time had come, we have yet
to find out. Beautiful corsages, made
that afternoon amid trials and tribulations, were to be found on nearly
every manly (?) shoulder, and were
also sold at a booth erected in the
corner.

The dance was under the excellent chaperonage of Prof. and Mrs.
Copp and Dr. Bell, which was perhaps one of the reasons why it was
such a grand party, and ended
promptly at 12.30. Delta Gamma
wishes to announce that a good sum
was realized for the Community
Chest, and also is glad everyone had
a good time. Moral for the night
—The girls did it again.

Engineers To Hold
Annual Fete Tonite

Those sons-of-fun, the Engineers,
meet at their annual banqueting
board tonight in the Lord Nelson
Hotel, to hold high wassail and present several awards. Notable among
these is the Bob Walters award, given
to the outstanding graduate. Bob
Walters was a graduate engineer,
accidentally in a hunting accident
after leaving Dalhousie. A tribute
to his greatness lies in the award by

e Engineers. Also Walters has be| come hay ony Malcolm of King’s

 

J

 

 

 

 
       
  
  

fhe views expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
F ites ‘eathor: it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of

the Student Body
en Meco il

GAZETTE STAFF

seed ale date mine 4: A Saageceecesisee sree BOD MeCleave
; ee  eeeeucsseesees Webster Macdonald
MRSA CUAL, 5. Craorsara Gist ae dl 4cacm Wi) e-o.0i6 Ted Shields

Print

 

 

“7.

   
 
 

 
 

RRB PO mene SI tate si: BREAN etc ard Pa Lios ohio eee Funt
RN PISCE MIGIEO ES ess ac kno os ce se vee on epee vas eeees Eileen Phinney
--Reportorial staff: Boris Funt, Joyce Harvey, Kay Cox, James Camptie bell , W. R. Lawrence, Elaine Hopewell, Aneeta Goodman.
i Ba ksh eeniceaene
‘A IT’S BECOMING A WOMAN’S WORLD

The pages of history written a thousand years from now

 

i Bi wea probably not live up to Hitler’s boast that his National
| Socialist Republic in Germany would last that long. In fact, the
Bh _ pages of history written a thousand years from now are quite
| a apt to forget the German Chancellor-dictator altogether, except

|. to give him as an example of part of the great popular unrest
and political upheaval of the time.
-_- $talin and his Russia will probably warrant more attention
| —__ at that distant date. But more likely the most striking point of
| discussion with the historian of that date will be the rising
| __ gocial position of women in our day and age. What this moveHs ment will be termed is debatable: it is so gradual and apparentNth ly so unimportant as to receive littie more attention than the

| specie of mother-in-law joke. Sadie Hawkin’s Emancipation ;
Be ‘Suffragette Susan; the Rise of Women; all these are possible,
| and probably improbable.

_~—-—-s it is significant however, that the daughters of Eve are
| ¢oming into their rightful place as man’s better half. The

_ metamorphis is at present striking, and painful. Women of the
old school of thought, who hide themselves at the sign of danger
| behind their husband’s skirts, (to obliterate a phrase), are be| _wildered at the male departure from chivalry, seen in such un.
compromising attitudes as a definite refusal to stand up and
| offer seats in buses.

On the other hand, the self-emancipating maiden is also dis
traught when she is forced to stand in the tram or train. She

is at the dividing line: venturing forth into a feminine future,
she wants the privileges of a more feminine past.

0 Man has hitherto held his woman to the home and fireside

_ with fetters of society-made iron. The great striking power be
hind his sudden kindness in lettering her out in the open is

_. . vather unseen at present. On the governmental side, most of
| the great powers have been faced with acute manpower crises

in the latest wars of mankind, and the natural power to keep the
country’s home fires burning has been women. Then too, the
i women in this great age of democracy seem anxious to get intc

the machinery of this life.
Pe: They certainly have reason on their side. It is doubtful if
we there ever would be another war if women had their way. Ai
| Jeast, that is what the women would say now, as they see thei:
} - own fiesh and blood off to battle. Were women to take over government, probably they would have the problems that we face
and would draft all the men to fight again. Or else they could
become Amazons.
_ The rising status of woman in society has discouragi:
_ features about it. First, moral fetters have been so freely cas:
aside that a race of Jezebels seems in the making. Insight i:
| this seems to indicate that too much freedom after kitche
_ slavery has gone to the feminine mind, but that a change to th

* good can be expected.”

Second, economic instability has been caused by throwing 2

large surplus of labour on the employment market. Women ar:
denied the same wages a man gets (though this is being ov:
- come) and the result is less earning power for society as >
_. whole. In an age of unionizing, women must be given right:
with men to keep up the standard of living.
: Where lies the future. The cynic expect men to becom:
| great shoppers, or talkative when there is nothing much to tal’
_ about except that ‘too, too divine scandal about the neighbow

across the way.’”’ Or else women will learn to smoke cigarette:
_ without looking bedazed and insipid.
Moret Most likely the golden mean will result from chaos. Woman
will demand it as her right to work or be able to work before
she marries, and quite probably after that except in the case of
; children. But psychologically the femine side of the sexes
seems more incomplete without man than the male is withor
ae his woman. This may be inherited by continual domestic en. |
vironment, than by any interent reasons.

. _A golden future lies for the human race if women brin__ her innate sensibilities into intro-human relations. Once free c”
fis the mental shackles which are the heritage of years of subser
__vience, the women who are becoming emancipated should bamong our greatest democras,

_ STUDENT FORUM—

iyi, ° Continued from page one

 

pensate for their loss to Engineers.
Thus Arts and Science will now have

   
   
     

Bt:

wi

  
  
   
 
 
  

Ai

p hag
Le —

nay ee came, it was
Jk Tf

This new idea immediately caused
Arts and Science students to wake
up and take notice, and offer some

resistance to this new field of at
tack. But the engineers were well

in the lead with Blanchard Wiswell

and Artsman Don Oland practically

i. _ aeting as the voices of the Engineer
ing Faculty, and were spurred on by
Carter, Hubley and the great majority of medical students.

ny ; White Hope
_ Miss Barbara White tried valiantly

to keep up Arts and Science spirit,

but her efforts were ruined when
| __ Blakeney took the floor, who, al
an Arts man himself, did
not Bip Me one cause in any great
way. Therefore when the

vas Arts and S¢ié
ed, for one seat was't

| i
;

   

ie
u
eae

eo)
72]
ca) »
~ eit
a.
a!

*

nal

a mere four seats on the Students’
Council in the future and Engineers
will have a maximum of two for the
duration.

p ... Dark Victory

This whole matter might easily
have been cleared up, had there been
Some discussion on the matter weeks
ago. Arts and Science would have
battled _the Engineering Faculty
over this problem without involving
Commerce in it whatsoever. But,
one can at least Say that the actual
proceedings provided much more excitemént and confusion than any individual at Dal ever expected.

Three “Gazette” reporters were

carried screaming from the auditor
ext. vote |1um asa result

eee es
n fron P| © }

| of their effo1
4 7 ee ante . 1

eee ees

  
 

He oun a mS
re ers
WSs ey geo alain

WS | ~ > ee

x

. oe yy i i
Oe

f

 

 

 

 
 
    
    
   
 
  
  

     
       

al
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematies,
Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc. r ¢
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties. |
Course in Public Administration. The TURQUOISE drawi pees \
. e win
many. valuable scholarships, on entrance and through amooth, clean-black lines or aie without
he courses, undue pressure.
That is why it is the choice of art and
The Professional Faculties manuel training teachers, architects,
a — and Rie ate
e composition of the lead is such oe See ese
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation. we peoes weites nQcHhly, and the rae
on‘ling process binds wood and lead
Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year. gether, giving greater strength to the Sales i
in the B.Sc. eourse, about $190 a year. _. - ihe same qualities which make
TURQUOISE so popular in technical use,
Residenc I ae va oo pencil foe the Siprerocea.
— wing, in,
ah ‘Shirreff Hall, residence for women. marking test or ekaninetion Danie, }]] - * * Onrefully supervised residential-faculties for man. TURQUOISE is your best. choice.
PERS OC TIERS pS SIS TED “Were. yriey dee. pasa i dope 1 A
| rr rt |! EASLEPENCILICOMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED, TORORTO

The interesting subjects of closets
and drawers have never, in spite of
their charm, as far as I know, been
closely examined. They are closely
related, and it is very appropriate
that the two should be combined in
a single essay, which, in its defined
scope, eliminates all possibility of an
exhaustive treatment of either. It
is searcely necessary to point out

)|\that their point of resemblance lies

) in that both are used to store things

. in: this must be taken as the base

F A R M E R S 9 M ] L K (| on any consideration of the subject.

(| As guides to public taste, we can

{ | conscientiously recommend this dis
/ | cussion to all those whom the prob
Is Stimulating .. . It Peps You Up! f\iem has disturbed. If it has been

)\ delved to its depths, we can only

say, “Pereant qui ante nos nostra
dixerunt.”

 

® (

To begin with, we should like to
dispel the notion that no amount of
practice can entirely dispel the in“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE” ( | herent awkwardness of sleeping in a

#\chest of drawers. While it is un
); usual to offer a guest a highboy to

) | sleep in, thereyis literary background
for the custom,

“A chest contrived a double debt
to pay,

bed by night, a chest of
drawers by day.”

While this unassailed misconception
is ridiculous and revolting, it is
without the scope of this essay.

 

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

56% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

A
MacLeod - Balcom
LIMITED
Oo
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements
Cj

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. 8.

The deft manipulation of drawers
is a prerequisite of the cultivated individual. A; word of the probable
contents is probably not without
value. These bear direct relation to
the person to whom the drawer is
assigned, and the purpose to which
he reserves it. It is unusual to mix,
for example, artichoke jelly with
rubber boots, and is often taken as

THE

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX

Phone B-7133

 

 

Closets and Drawers

(Reading Time—2 minutes)

“Nay, "tis too much”.
(Old Play)

While one can do little to mend
the lot of misguided persons who do
not agree with one, much can be
done to reorganize one’s own drawers, and those of one’s friends. A
few simple rules are necessary.

1. Shoes and coats, as being of
large size, should not be forced into
drawers of too exiguous extent.

2. It is not customary to pull
drawers completely out of their supporting frame—this is calculated to
derange the contents.

3. A drawer containing paper and
envelopes does not necessarily also
contain erasers and blotters—many
young searchers have been led astray
by failure to observe this simple
maxim.

4. A drawer containing articles of
varied nature may be described as a
“miscellaneous repository”. Everyone should have one to clean in
search of stamps on rainy days.

These few general ideas may serve
as a guide, for the complete code
must be formulated by the individual to meet the requirements of the
drawers he wishes to reform.

Of closets there is space for mention of only one thing—the necessity of avoiding contact with the
family skeleton. This pleasantry of
disturbing its musty bones is liable
to be misunderstood, and this is always to be deplored. The person
who is apt to do this is liable to
suffer socially. It must be borne
in mind, too, that the closet in which
the ancestral mauvaise sujet may be
concealed may be metaphorical: this
only inereases the difficulty of the
problem.

We should like to recall an anec
Te we le a sign of a deranged mind to store dote showing the chagrin coming
The Lure of biological speciments with handker-| from ignorance of closets. A perPrecious Stones chiefs. The inventor of a theorem| gon of our acquaintance (we shun

After any Show

OF 2s 'g))'s

whereby the contents of a drawer
could be determined by arithmetical
investigation would exceed Euclid’s
glory. However, general deductions
may be made, even should be, to
prevent falling into error. Innocent
search may be led in ignorance by
an innocent exterior, into disagreeable collision with a most unprepossessing interior. Is this to be desired ?

For thousands
mankind has
precious stones.
They are precious because
they combine beauty to
charm, durability to preserve the beauty and
rarty to keep it above the
commonplace.

A visit to Birks will tell
its own story.

The
Henry pana Sons C
Limit I
hesuceres Jeweller reen ntern

American Gem Society /
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

of years
treasured

Before any Meal

Think of ...

= =

 

 

Oh ... Marvin R. has

Now, this is strictly entre-nous,

But who was seen last night with who?

That woman’s face, dear,—have you heard?

Her best friend told me, don’t you breathe a word!

Dalhousie Uniuersity
Halifax, Nova Scotia
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.

Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

GOSSIP

“Dear, have you heard the latest talk?
The Harris child has learned to walk;
That family leads a dreadful life—

In women, tongues conspicuous stand,
And in the sun are oft-times tanned.

him since his faux pas) once made
his farewells, turned to go, looked
back and smiled, and still smiling
over his shoulder, opened a door and
let himself into a closet, exposing
himself to the jeers of the company.
“Ignorance is a voluntary misfortune.”
—*‘Spectator” 953

 

left his wife.

Lana

J. MeL.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

   
 

Be ee: . i
Voitim ounisy |

 
      

 

 
    
         
   
      

 
  

 

   

 
    

: chap called Au Anatin Creighton, and of second year,
ie ff ebrand and social light. But Sadie Hawkins must
ay to the stud, i“ Anatomy i in all but the practical, and

hton. How grave is the study of

(1 Bie a ile hand, nothing kept Graham Colquhoun from
ia Saar endearments, not Anatomy, or all the saints combined.
( ees interested in the chemistry of lipsticks, to know
nears may last so long.
Vas Wally Thomas drunk? Who would say so, knowing
him, the upright, righteous, and strong? But who would not
Hs say so, to look at him, as he danced the primative dance of the
‘y Wears before parade? It was a strong wine to make the
sober Thomas dance, or perhaps the Anatomy exam just written

| had demented him.
long and the Wilk prayed loud. And he

  

  
  

 
 

_ The Wilk prayed
studied long ana he studied hard. And he smiled as he wrote
\ his Anatomy exam. And he threw a waterlogged serviette hard
and straight, and hit Wally Thomas on the side of the head.
¥ The Lord.is gracious unto them that fear Him.

“From Pine Hill came the Deacon and his fiddle,
And played his fiddle for Dathousie’s Head.

The Head had gone away, but this good Deacon
Played well and not for nothing. Now, fair Reader,

earn how this ditty’s true, yet meaningless.”
; | From the memoris of L. Guravich, Deacon at Pine Hill College.
H Captain Colquhoun, of the Caribou II, has disclosed that his

worthy ship has been sold. And now the crew are late for all
y their classes. It seems they have forgotten the way to the
Forrest Building.
An important question: who gave Stu his new suit of
| clothes?

One of the most outstanding careers of the jazz maestro is that of
United States Coastguardsman Artie Shaw. The tempestuous career that
made him a press headliner as well as orchestra leader with a gross
income of an estimated million dollars per annum has been marked by
many hasty decisions and changes. Rather than stamping him as a per“son of neurotic temperament, these changes have revealed his constant
experimentation in arranging and, later, his keen desire to bring a higher
tone to dance music.

;
-. Like so many band leaders, Shaw began his career with years of

 

it

*

clarineting with dance bands and theatre orchestras all over the States.
‘Having reached a position of comparative anonymnity where he earned
_ Several hundred dollars a week, he decided to retire to the country. For
‘* several months, on a Bucks County, Pennsylvania, farm he endeavoured
to write. His idol at that time was Lafeadio Hearne, but finding that his
Fear resembled more the mad scribblings of Gertrude Stein, he agreed
to appear with four violinists at a swing concert in New York. The same
+ ivear he formed a small aggregation that recorded for Vocalion. (Not released in Canada). In 1986 he dropped the fiddles from his band (they
‘were years before their time), enlarged his brass and sax sections and
with arrangements by Jerry Gray, who later arranged for Glenn Miller,
developed an orchestra that within a year was on a peak with Benny
Goodman’s. Shortly after the band was organized the luckiest break of
this whole career came his way when he signed a recording contract

i with RCA.
: The first best selling record of this
. band was his still popular Begin the
‘Beguine which wore out a million
h copies in juke boxes all over the

ments in arranging still further, developed a five-piece swing combina‘tion which he called his Grammercy
Five. This set-up included a guitar,
bass, drums, trumpet, harpsichord
(an innovation here!), and, of course
Artie’s clarinet. Playing a cool,
poised, and self-assured jazz of the
‘chamber music’”’ style, they made up
in musicianship what they lacked in
gutbucket kicks. My Blue Heaven
and Smoke Gets In Your Eyes were
the most popular selections by this
group.

Those who like their swing in albums will be glad to know that
there are two Artie Shaw albums
available. The 1936-39 band (no
strings) has recorded an Album of
Popular Music on Bluebird (Album
BP-I. In it you'll find Carioca, Bill,
Donkey Serenade, My Heart Stood
Still, Lover Come Back To Me, Rosalie, Zigeuner, Suppertime, Vilia,
and The Man I Leve. On Victor
records you ean find a compilation of
both his old and his later 1940-42
(thirty-two piece) band. The selections are Star Dust, Begin the Beguine, Traffic Jam, Dancing in the
Dark, Serenade to a Savage, Moonglow, Back Bay Shuffle.

country; many other followed that
put Shaw’s band on top. In 1938
came Hollywood offers, top radio
7 contracts, and exclusive locations.
Tiring of it all the following year,
the broke up the organization and
with a SatEvePost slam at the idolizing jitterbugs that made him
famous, retired to Mexico. Here he
rescued a deb from drowning, and
‘ 4 hurt his leg. While recovering from
this he absorbed the Latin American
‘influence, with the result that on his
return and subsequent formation of
ll this “large” orchestra the first reecordings he made were of Mexican

iy tunes.
; . i Mis _ This discing was so popular that
tit hit the best-seller lists one week
vai after release. You all know the
songs, Adios, Mariquita Linda and
. ‘Frenesi. Shaw continued with this
| Mie up and turned out the finest recordings of his career. Well aware
art that a large portion of the public
| s to better music, Shaw conBy tioned to bring out his string sec} % 3 tion, and added a ‘cello, viola and
BO French horn to his complement. His
angements of this last period
carefully worked out, the
strings being frequently used as a
tonal, hackground and his well-artith ed sax chorus and rhythm section gave his music a different, more
f gorous quality than that found in
2 yi most “Strings-and-swing” combinaie io) s, Shaw’s particular forte is his
ome odious clarinet, subtly varying,
Pre ranging from sub-tones to
upp ee aioe trills. Moonglow,
F ee

  
   
    
 
     
       
         
     
       
    
       
       
     
   
  
  
  

  

     
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
 
  
 

oy ils

On the personal side we find two
motion picture appearances (MGM’s
Dancing Co-Ed, and ParamountBoris Morros Second Chorus), and
three unsuccessful marriages, one of
them to Lana Turner. For his fine
arrangements, for his brilliant and
imaginative treatment of the songs,
standard and original, that he has
recorded, and his impeccable clarinet
playing, Artie Shaw has earned his
place in the list of jazz greats. For
the future, who knows? There are
rumours that he is forming an orchestra in the service, Claude Thornhill to a Re he pianist-coster.

   
 
  

   
   
 

   
   
  
 

   
 

  
 
 

   
   

  
   

= been Beaten with men who
| : ha are headliners i in their field.

 

ih Thassos a Meets Bilery

Tg sade cages

FEATURE PAGE

 

Dalin the OldDays |

About twenty-five years ago Dal]

was just the Forrest Building. If
we were transported to the Dal of

twenty-five years to thirty years ago.

we probably wouldn’t recognize the
place. We couldn’t all be transported anyhow, for there were very
few girls in the Dal of those days.

If you were to walk into the
building just as the fire fighting
squad was leaving the fire station
you’d probably be trampled under
foot in the mad rush of the medicos
in the doorway. The high point of
the young medical student’s life was
attending all the fires. Maybe you
don’t see the connection. Neither
do I but it was the thing to do and
I suppose it helped you to miss a
class too. -Another big social event
to the medical student was clam
chowder in Rafuse’s Restaurant after
an evening of study.

If you were the outdoor type you
went skating on the Murray pond
(where Studley now stands), or you
went to the old South End Rink on
South Street every week on Dalhousie night. Dal night was quite
the thing then. You even had a
program like the programs for our
dances.

If a couple of the boys went to
Murray’s pond for an evening of
skating, they might manage to “pick
up” a couple of nurses who’d gone
there because they liked to skate
too. However, there wasn’t any future in it. The girls, Cinderella like,
would leave at 10.30 and the boys
could never get them to tell their
names, for it was an unforgivable
disgrace to allow oneself to be
“picked up”, even by a dignified
theologue,

The Halifax Presbyterian College
(Pine Hill, to you) was an indispensible cog in the social life of Halifax. Only theologues stayed there
then, and they were always being
invited out to tea at Halifax homes
where there were eligible daughters.
All the mothers thought their worries would be over if they could just
get their daughter safely married to
a nice young minister. The daughters considered it the acme of social
success to be invited to the theologues’ “at home”. Theologues didn’t
dance in those days. They played
very proper games at their parties.

If you thought you had met the
one and only girl, of course you
wanted to impress her. To do this
you arrived at the appointed hour in
a taxi (most probably a horse-drawn
one), and in your highest and stiff
Fader’s Drug Stores ’

185 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

HALIFAX

 

Nova Scotia }

 

ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

“THUNDER OVER THE
PRAIRIES”

‘LAUGH YOUR BLUES AWAY’

*

Thursday, Friday and Saturday

“TRADE BUSTERS”
“PHANTOM PLAINSMAN”

GARRICK

Saturday, Monday and Tuesday
“OVER MY DEAD BODY”

Milton Berle-Mary Bette Hughes
and SHORTS

   
     
     
   
     
      
    

Wednesday, Thursday and Friday
“THREE LEGIONAIRES”

“JUST LIKE A WOMAN”

OXFORD

Monday, Tuesday
“SEVEN SWEETHEARTS”
“CAT PEOPLE”
Wednesday, Thursday
“THE AVENGERS”
CAREFUL, SOFT SHOULDERS
Friday, Saturday —

“The Navy Comes Through”

Queen

 

 

 

AMPUS
LIPPINGS

By Ted Shields

 
    

_—_—---""

 

Sign of the time: We never used
to be able to find Grandma’s glasses,

but now she leaves them just where

she empties them.
vow ey

Regular staff of trans-Canada university papers seemed to have
suffered mid-term melancholia last
week, or something of the sort. At
any rate, the hand of the uninitiated
was evident in more than one college
journal reaching the editorial seat.
In addition to our own Sadie Hawkins issue, we have noted the special
Arts issue of the Manitoban, all in
blue ink, with harassed Artsmen and
sweatered Artswomen gracing the
front page. The Ubyssey staggered
us for a moment, bursting out in
searlet ink, and tabloid size, under
the special direction of the Engineers. Particularly notable for the
somic strip and “cheesecake” on the
front page, we agree with one of the
buxom, leggy lassies being ogled by
a satanic engineer, “I’d know an
Engineer anywhere — even without
his sweater”... and on any campus
too, from one end of the country to
the other, we say.

And then, of course, there was
the special Commerce Edition of the
McGill Daily . . . there haven’t been
any since! And they called the
Gazette “pornographic” down here!
So sorry we can’t reprint any of the
jokes; but take our word for it, they
were great reading!

 

est white collar, and well shined
black boots,, and I do mean boots).
You took ber to dinner at the Halifax Hotel and then to a stage show
at the Academy of Music, (where
the Capitol now stands). Of course
if your father was a wealthy professional man in Cape Breton, you hired
a horse and sleigh on Sunday afternoon and drove your best girl out
to Waverley, had tea there, and came
back by way of the Dartmouth ferry.

Don’t laugh too much at our
parent’s idea of fun. We seem to
be moving backward to the simple
pleasures ourselves, for the duration!

CAPITOL

Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

“George

Washington Slept

99

Here

JACK BENNY
ANNE SHERIDAN

*

Thursday, Friday and Saturday

“Once Upon

A Honeymoom”’
GINGER ROGERS

   
   
  
  
    
 

CASINO

Starts Saturday
February 27

*

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

    
  
   
    
    
 

Never
Anything
Like It! |

   
   
      
 
   
     
    
 
     
   

FRANK BUCK’S

‘JACARE?

And here’s a little spice from the) 4)) having finished their midGateway’s Casserole:

“Curse it! Curse it!” hissed the
villian, snatching at the girl’s waist.
she retorted,

“Oh, no,”
girdle.”

 

MODERN SADIE HAWKINS

164 students from the University | 16, U.A.T.C.,
of Saskatchewan have been reported’ |Members of the U.A.T.C. will jourto the Divisional Registrar for Selec-| ney to camp on April 28, remaining
tive Service. With Canadian colleges there until May 13.

 

 

 

 

 

Page Threr

 

term
exams, the total number of students
reported to Selective Service is
around 870. McGill, although the
largest Canadian university, has contributed less than one twelfth the
aggregate, according to the MceMaster Silhouette.

Vay ¥
“Do you know my daughter May ?”

‘it’s a

“No, I didn’t. Thanks for the
tip."—The Gateway.
ea oe

“George, what are you thinking
about ?”
“The same thing you are Betty.”
“If you do, I’ll scream.”
iy’ ~¥ ae
Having hit every other college in
the Dominion, we pass this verse on
without any attempt to reeord its
pedigree:
In the Indian tribe known as Sioux,
They spent oddles of time pitching
wioux.
Iixtra-marital ties
Were praised to the skies
And nothing was ever tabioux.
Vy oy

a true music lover is
when he hears a soprano
in the bathroom, puts his ear to the
key-hole.—Gateway.
Ay a se
‘l had to fire my new stenographer.”
“Why, wasn’t she experienced?”
“No. When I told her to sit down,
she looked around for a chair.”
—McGill Daily.
VOM

Definition:
one who,

Engineer: If I start at a given
point on a given figure and travel
the entire distance around it, what
do I get?

She: Slapped.

Photog by O'Brien,, U-A. TC. Cessation

It has been announced that training in the Dalhousie Squadron, No.
will cease on April 5th.

That Gplia Samething!.

...- YOu can
spot it every time

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
     
 

IKE “winning a letter,” keeping

out in front of the others takes

an extra something. Coca-Cola has
it—in taste... in quality...

in refreshment.

The finished art that comes
from 57 years of practice goes
into the making of Coca-Cola.
A special blend of flavouressences merges all the in- /
gredients of Coca-Cola
into a unique, original ¢ :
taste of its own.

There are many ways
to quench thirst, but .
ice-cold Coca-Cola
brings true refresh
ment.
, * ”

It’s natural for popular
names to acquire friendly
abbreviations. That’s
why you hear Coca-Cola
called Coke. Both mean
the same thing.
“coming from a single
source and well
ia to the com
    
       
    

4 With war, there’s less Coca-Cola. So
gi | Coca la, first choice, sells out first

i 02-——Sometimes it may not in the red
cooler. Worth waiting for . . . those
times when “The Coke’s in”.

TRADE M
Delicious and

ee ee
The best is always the better buy!

oo SA Oe SS ae
Pee

THE COCA- COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

HALIFAX ana

DALHOUSIANS ...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S
THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

ast ts

 

   

   

‘ tesa? 
? a“

9
ies op gi BY 2. BP iy 2? “shdly &.
  
 
  
      

NUNS
=

SPORT -©-SCOPE ;
ie by ED MORRIS =
NAAN ANN NNN

——.:- It was good

_. the middle of the football field a few days back. Not that that
is any sign that winter is all but over, by a long shot. Studleyites have a notorious habit of confusing the seasons as well as

     

d to hear the plunk of a baseball and bat from}

 
   
    
  

4%

i.

a
rk
_

 a@comin’ in.

“ave.

s

with th

a a ~

The way summer comes in around here leaves plenty of
time to gather up the threads of the last ten weeks and see what
the net result shows. First off, we had a fair football season
w e Tigers holding their own, by slim margins, in most
games. Sometimes we won, most often we lost.

Then followed a hot-headed argu- Sa

games.

ment with our questionable Acadia
friends who persist in the belief that
Dal teams “throw” every game they

lose. I was thinking that “throw
ing” games might become a profitable business, provided Acadia would

pay enough.

Hockey and basketball for the year
were of dubious repute. Difficulty
in getting ice for practise sessions,
and for scheduled games, put a crimp
in our style even before Christmas,
when the prospective candidates
might otherwise have started preseason limbering up. After the
Christmas vacation nothing seemed
to pan out as hoped. Potential
leagues faded from view and schedules had to be scrapped. Meanwhile
the hockey talent around the campus

of the basketball addicts went bliss
the days. But we can all sit down for a few weeks and dangle
ur little tootsies and wait for the sun to shine. Summer is

oo * °

EngineeringSeniors

Sunday afternoon saw a handful of
would-be sports enthusiasts staggering over to the Gym. Purpose
was to see the two ~ames to be
played; first one to ve between the
Engineers and the Freshmen; the
second between the Meds and the
Dents. But the Meds and the Dents
did not show up for the game and
thus the Engineers and the Freshmen had the floor all to themselves
for the rest of the afternoon.

:

Most enlightening thing of all was |

Dents all apart. Anyway, if they |

: ce eke voicing 1S! the fact that the members of the |
in In the realm of basketball most Freshman team were for the most |
ie of the action came from the inter-|Part made up of Frosh engineers |
Os class series. “Action” is a term that |anyway. After a tough fight all the
igh may mean anything from clever|way, the Engineers defeated the
be dribbling to’ drop-kicking off the) proshmen by a score of 27-19

ir floor. One of the more daring ino- peu ower at be |
7. vations of this year’s GAZETTE has It was a disappointment that the |
= been an irregular series of pointers | Meds and the Dents did not turn up |
"4 to prospective basketball players who | for their battle, for in the opinion of |
Hit seem to confuse the game with Irish the engineers, the Meds could and |
I handball and soccer football. Not Ror Soa uia ‘h . th

*, that the advice did much good; most | PTODAaMly would nave torn the poor)

  
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
 

 

fully about their way, throwing the
ball against the side-wall to rough
up the surface or holding on to it
for dear life.

And, of course, it wouldn’t be
proper to overlook the tremendous
contribution made by that most daring of sports, ping-pong. There are
fe asdbasn really standout players
on the campus, who know how to
play this game and how to get the
most from it. But the rest—vwell,
they’re trying, but it still looks like
piffle.

_( There are still a good many sport-” ing activities that are not organized

on the campus. Swimming is practically nil, as an organized effort.
during the entire campus year. A
few years back a different situation held forth. There seems to be
a common misconception with such
projects that unless an average attendance of more than fifty can be

had, the Dents could have had some |

practise on their own plate work.

 

Particularly worthy of note this
week is the evolution of interfaculty
hockey. Although it is rather late in
the season now, the boys seem to be
pretty well enthused over the matter, and that is what really counts.
The Engineers formed the first of
the Faculty teams and were soon
followed by the formation of a team
from the Arts und Science Faculty.
Now we see on the bulletin boards
that the Freshmen have made up a!
team and the little league plans to,
get right down to business.

 

 

Munro Day—

(Continued on page 1)

kept up it is not worth while to carry | the bonds uniting the youth of the
on. t, of course is not the case | (/nited Nations.
at all. No more than ten can com
prise sufficient justification for erganizing and keeping alive a definite
sporting project.

In the same category as swimming are any number of other sports
—skiing, to mention one outstanding
example — that could be sponsored
and kept alive.

As a general thing, the D.A.A.C
has had its task cut out finding how
to whittle down budgets that had
been propped up to a giddy height.
Consequently, anything that had the
faintest tinge of cost about it automaticall-- went by the boards. Now
I give them an idea that won't cost
a single red penny. Set up a small
working committee, of no more than
three members—and it is a simple
thing to pick out the proper three
— whose job it will be to discuss
openly with the students and the
Physical Education Department the
things that might be done to increase the sporting activity on the

' campus.

That is a starter that might bring
some kind of action. Too often in
the past we have stuck rigidly to the
“Big Three”—Football, Hockey, and
Basketball. The simple fact remains
that there are a few other sports
left over. Some of these—tennis
badminton, ete.—are fairly well organized. But others have been left
entirely in the cold. Perhaps the
D.A.A.C, big-wigs could put their

This is an official Student Council
project, and it must get 100% support if it is to go over. You will be
reading of other plans for the Munro
Day celebration. It’s going to be
good. Other universities are raising a lot of money for war purposes.
Here is Dal’s chance to do a bangup drive in one day. Don’t forget
ISS, and be sure to come to the|
WAR SERVICES MUNRO DAY.

Important Changes—

(Continued on page 1)
year will be given interviews by representatives of the armed forces to
see if they can get into they branches they applied for.

Third year science students will
take a special summer course in ordnance, engineering or signals and
come back and finish fourth year in
uniform (perhaps as officers, but
the number will be limited). C.O.T.
C. will be fifteen days and all except
graduates who volunteered for service will be liable.

 

collective heads together and come
vu with a little action before still
another year is added to the long
series that stretches way, way back.

 

 

‘

Jay

  
 

Powder and Dried Fruits.

Tala cA

, and be sure/

Founded in Haifa in 1847

ight
j ‘ 
 

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be’
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking

i

  

 

'S. C. M. Conference

the Physics Department will be the

|of the faculty.

     
     
       
    
     
   
   

 

Definite Ruling Given _
By Ralston on Beginner’s

Swimming Class: Enrol Now

“T’ll guarantee to teach anyone, coming out for three
swimming periods in a row, to swim at least ten feet,’
promised Burnie Ralston, Dalhousie physical instructor, in

an interview Wednesday noon. ‘The classes are given
Wednesday nights from nine to ten at the Y.M.C.A. pool.

Mr. Ralston has accomplishment to back up this boast.
Already several students have learned to swim, and on
their first night out three were able to swim the promised
ten feet.

Ten feet isn’t any Channel record, but it has its points.
The class definitely gives the beginner the confidence to
assay further distances, once he has grasped the rudimentary strokees.

The addition of other classes is planned to Ralston’s
repertoire, and among those not mentioned previously in
the Gazette are boxing and fencing. All students of male
sex are eligible to come and grow big muscles.

Dr. W. J. Archibald |Edged Out 48-45.
To Be Speaker At |After Early Lead

Dalhousie Tigers lost to Y. M.
C. A., 48-45, on Saturday night at
the Gymnasium in the only Senio1
Halifa Basketball League
played over the week-end.

The Tigers soon took the lead in
the opening of the game, and were
led in this onrush by D’Arcy, Dunbrack and Ralston . The “Y” team,
led by Tom Parker, strove to keep
down the pace of the Dal boys, but
at the interval the Tigers were leading 24-18.

After intermission, the “Y”
came back strong and soon evened

Sunday the §.C.M. is holding a
one-day conference, consisting of an
afternoon and a morning session in
the Murray Homestead. The purpose of the conference is to consider
through group thinking and discussion, our position as students in today’s world, and to plan how we can
best prepare while at college to assume the responsibilities which are
placed on university-trained men
and women in post-college life.

Professor William J. Archibald of

game

team

up the score, with Callaghan taking
the for “Y” throughout
the entire half. And by the end of
the game the “Y”
lead, having won with a score of 48
—45.
Although

special speaker, with other members
Drs. G. E. Wilson,
H. L. Bronson, R. O. Jones, and Collier have enlisted their co-eperation
in leading discussion groups.
The program is as follows:
2.30-4.30—Afternoon session. p
4.30-6.30—Recreation and supper. starred for
7.00-9.30—Evening session.
Posters have been placed around | :
the campus and registration sheets | lowed by Dunbrack with eight. |
have also been posted. Students are| _. Dalhousie: Dunbrack 8, Wilson 6,
invited to bring friends. A slight | V2" Dyke 9, D’Arcy..15, Ralston. 6,
registration fee will be charged. Le hite 1, Oakley 3

spotlight
team was in the
Callaghan and Parker
*Y” throughout the

game, Tigers put up a great fight,
with D’Arcy piling up 15 points, fol
The best
chocolate made

Dai ere

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

 

 
  

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of
the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING .
will be valuable aid in future years.

Enter Any Dr iy a counts fr

eo of Registration

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

|

‘ February 26, 1943 * |

4

“IT DOES TASTE GOODIN A PIPE!” *
ae is i pak

‘

y

4
4
»
: : a
B.Sm., Bachelor of Smoking, is a great
degree. It entitles a man to hours of Blissful Satisfaction in all the days of his life. Graduate under
Prof. Picobac—always mild, cool, sweet.
b ;
GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO ‘

      
   

THE AMERICAN GRILL

22 GRANVILLE STREET

      

 

24 Hour Service x
COLLEGE STUDENTS WEBCO ME
MAPLE LEAF DAIRY %
A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.
Phone L. 2357
MILK — CREAM -—- BLEND - BUTTERMILK ,
YOUR SUIT COATS AND DRESSES
;

Look Newer

 

 

_ast Longer

 

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,

to keep them feeling soft and fresh, to maintain

shapely, slylish lines. A good wartime practice 2
is: Buy fewer clothes—send what you have to

Cousins often.

e
LimireD
*

CLEANERS LAUNDERERS DYERS STORAGE

  

STUDENTS!

NORMAN’S CAFE e

HOLLIS STREET B-9575

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. Cunard & Co., Ltd.

HARD COAL
COKE

SOFT COAL
FUEL OIL i

Dartmouth, N. 8.

 
