ee ei
rae
« hg

»

 

he

 

>

> ie 4 a di _
-¥< o ,
Fj han ‘ ;

a) aetna
: ‘ .

| Ps)

ae

é
|

Dalhous

 

 

 

ie Campus Special | ©. 7. C. Issue

 

nd Happy NewYear

 

T AT 1a»
; — SIGNAL HONOR GIVEN MAJOR HOGAN — — TIGERS TO HAVE WINGS? —
Confers Wi On O Air Training C I
Broth d In At Be F din New Y
, rother, Graduate In Air e Formed in New Year
a e
Force Ceremonies Today —** An Air ‘Training ‘Comps ‘will be
shortly established at Dalhousie, it
c t ~ V5 ; > y $ 7
. . pls rll ia q ; aie ee, a on ee
| In graduation ceremonies at Moncton today, Major R. V. La st Call For Love | was. unofficially stated “by Flight
, Hogan, Chief Instructor of the O.T.C., pinned the wings on the From, the ens Athenaeum Lieut. Mosely, addressing male stutunic of his own brother, Joe Douglas Hogan. The youthful|| “By Bill Chipman — dents in the O.T.C., at a special
airman, erstwhile student under the Air Training Scheme the sateen eae mare vi ee | meeting in the Dalhousie Gymnasium
. . Ss ans Vas oT as F > ’
‘Commonwealth has set up, and tonight a full-fledged airman, Soutahs Navy ila tie cata last Sunday, granted by the Univeris the youngest member of the family. “threw” the game to the Tars ||Sity military authorities at the re| The ceremony was an unusual| March when the regular training without a fight. Perhaps the Dal- || quest.of President Stanley to the
| a Tye are) 8 Be © || housians don’t remember last year || Air Force. An estimate of students
| change from ordinary custom, the| schedule has been completed. Cam- when a game Acadia squad trav- sista EAE oie te eee
LK Airforce usually having the mono-| pus rumor will now be quieted on/|] elled to the Capital city to beat ||“ = reside - a hy
poly on the issuing of wings. this subject. || Navy and allow the Tigers to cop || @¢ at half the O.T.C. ranks. Military
The Gazette regrets that, due to lighting facilities in the gymna- Elsewhere the O.T.C. 4ront is The Chief Instructor also announc- || the City Meague crown without a | authorities are touchy on the gubsium, there cannot be a larger share of cadet pictures in the above quieter, as plans for the final|ed it is expected that the semi-| vogthneg! See ee ars. This || ject, but make no official protest;
six-column display. Included in the cut at left is a section of “B” Com- | parade Sunday will be carried out.) annual inspection of the Q.M. stores | arty Acadia brand of sportsman- || however, the building up their corps
' pany on drill Tuesday night; Lieut.-Col. C. B. Smith, O.C. of the Con- | It was finally decided to hold the! will be carried out by members of |] “While Burnie Ralston (formerly || 4U*1ng the past three months is now
tingent, and Major R. V. Hogan, Chief Instructor, centre, with Captain | parades missed during the year in! the Royal Canadian Ordnance Corps. || coached by Coach Kelly) is also a || threatened disaster by the new ‘baby.
; A. R. Jewiti, in the bottom panel; and at the right, the three pepluar | good coach, he has the advantage The Airforce are still looking for
ey = a _ eee i > a is + ree teats — = Ses . abs < . a

Sergeants, Instrueters-Sergeant Marshall, and Q.M.S.

seated, Sergeant MacAskill Harlow.

Lockhart; and,
In the cut at lower left are shown

girls of Shirreff Hall who do their part for the war effort, knitting and

— EUROPEAN STUDENTS HERE —

   

of being at a graduate school that
acts as a catch-allfor Acadia
post-grad rugby stars. If forced

sledding against Gasper
a place to house Headquarters, the
staff of which would consist of one

to conform with intercollegiate || )coylar officer and two N.C. Qs.
socially entertaining the forces of the O.T.C. | standards the ‘Tigers would have ||." és als os
Prefer Internment Here tough A mong the piaces mentioned ‘has

eau Grammar School.”

been the Gazette office.

ed to report for active service. This |

! ;
DUYIQCOTOREOLDSAALASOS NLA ALD AUTOSTART dedision was reached by the National

2 ; : Dalhousie’s corps, one of the last
(Gazette editor: Acadia sports
®._'% ® |
To Nazis’ “Free Life”

 

A M c U S | Selective Service Board of the Uni- manship is defined, then explain- ee ee SPT ees will prone
| versity of Saskatchewan, because! ,, : . re _____ || ed in the above article. Such a || commence after Christmas. Applig

, : | It is better to be interned in a et eae 9 iy enemas | ao a des Ase ice. (claeeeebee
L P P I N GS these students had failed to fulfil | Canatin th ha f th ‘i d| . H writeup is a type of “yellow eations will be personally attested,
their military obligations, by not. nee Te yee? Sane Sadie Hawkins Dance jounrnalism, which will be ap- || and their placement is guaranteed
‘ | . . aay _ |Arthur Steuermann, Jewish refugee | preciated by other campus news- a
By EUGENE MERRY attending spring camp without being | from Austria. who. with Eric Kruh | H T . I id papers ncvoss ‘Canada: if hot |to the best interests of the wai

AAA AHHH | given leave of absence. eae as Lragic Incident the weekly in which it originates.) || effort:

and Harry Zappler, all three from

 

 

he | y : : . ‘a S : Toy a ul

Thought of the week: Comes | Sw Vienna, are taking up studies at Kingston, Ont. Nov 28—As a re-|
Christmas, and just remember, it | Limericks Dalhousie University. They were sult of a wound in the right shoul- | —————_____- ae —
isn’t the liquor you drink at night There was a young frosh, I re-| recently released from internment, ¢e" incurred from a 22-calibre re
that hurts—it’s the moaning after. member, camp in Canada and allowed to en-| Volver at a Sadié Hawkins Dance

Dalhousie Institute of

VW V | Who came down to Dal in September; Public Opinion

% The census taker was inquiring of} He ran around like h
the mountaineer how many children | And all seemed to go well,
. he had. | But they plucked the poor nut in
“Four,” was the answer, “and by| December.

iter Canadian Universities. Kruh/| at Queen’s University, Friday night,
‘and Zappler were both refused ad-| Betty Stewart, 21, a nurse at Hotel
imittanee to the University of |Dieu in Kingston, was removed to
| Toronto, the Board of Governors | hospital. Her condition was said not

DIP O-«

 

 

Exams being so near, it was thought best not to take up the stu
gosh, that’s all I’m going to have’.
“Why?” asked the census taker.

“I’ve just read in this here almanic| Art student?

that every fifth child born in the

¥ IVE
Did you hear the one about the
He was so cheap he

gave his girl a watch case one

vetoing the proposal after the Stu-|to be serious. The patient will be
| dent Body had given assent. Steuer-| discharged during the weekend.

mann was unable to enter McGill |
University. |

The three left Austria after the

summoned at ten o’clock
took possession of the revolver and
questioned three students, getting

Police

 

 

dents’ time with questions this week. Instead we will take _ this opportunity to state what seems to us the aims and purposes of this column.

 

Primarily DIPO is meant to give students an opportunity to learn
what their fellow-students are thinking on Campus and on world conditions as well. From a statistical point of view these tabulated results are

 

fa s . ' 2
\’ world is a Chinaman.” Christmas and the next Christmas Nazi occupation in the first step of |signed statements. It was believed | not very accurate, but practically they represent the current trend of
—The Brunswickan.| he gave her the works. the Iron heel outwards from Berlin. | the revolver was part of a mountain-| student opinion, They do represent what is considered an enlightened
ie VE ee ‘es es Gazette... | ays same| Germain heel is back-step- | eer costume worn by a student apro-/ portion of society, and they have had a remarkable record of accuracy.
‘And there was the Scotchman who ‘POEM ping even more smartly now than| pos Sadie Hawkins and left lying on Statistical percentages are not very interesting, and for that reason
always bought one spur because he ibeis bad a. Nile wing before, and some day these students | the floor.. Another student picked it| we include some of the amusing, if not otherwise noteworthy, comments
figured if Rees Side of the horse ran, PM Polat. Ald : will return to their native land. uP, not knowing it was loaded, and | of students. Often, too, we ask lighter questions—they used to be called
» the other side would go too. ey averywhere that Mary idee At Dalhousie Kruh is taking Arts fired a shot, causing the wound.| “the week’s nonentity”—which frequently yield amazing results, and
| Re es ane ; elaine was just behind: and hopes to become a teacher; Zap- | Names of the students involved and/| which give the campus wits a chance to get their humour into print.
| rt Teacher: 0 was Michel- —The Manitoban. | Pler and Steuermann are pre-Dentals. | the reason why the gun was loaded This week’s survey reveals that students and staff are unanimous on
angelo? hy yy Admitted late in the year to Dal-| Were not revealed. ..,..| two points. For a 100% of all students wish one another THE BEST OF
ee ee eee oe cirnen: “Every time I kiss you| housie, they are ‘studying hard to Police and University authorities| CK ON. THE EXAMS, A VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A
all time. it makes me a better man.” get up their exams. All three are | 2t¢ withholding further details pend-| p_EASANT HOLIDAY.
vv aie Ubyssey. Freshette: “Well, you don’t have staying at Pine Hill Residence. ing an. investigation. Dee Rigney,
: erown attorney, stated, “Until the pptatde rt ae
C.0.T.C.ers Conscripted — aa ee wes 2) One|” The a oe be e ei facts are presented in writing there O M t PI 17 and continuing for a week or ten
A C.U.P. article in the Varsity; ~ ~ Th ; cya GMCS Of Se or aoe will be no decision whether there he omen ease days.
s . —The Queen’s Journal. | dents on the contrast of European

acts as a warning to slackers.
Twenty-five students have been defaulted officially fom the ranks of
the C.O.T.C., and have been request
:

v-V WV
Editor Merry wishes to wish you
a Merry Christmas and a Happy
New Year.

and Canadian student life. Already
several articles of topical interest
have been promised.

 

will be court proceedings against the
student alleged to have fired the
revolver but there certainly will be
if the facts appear to warrant it.”

The Halifax Post Office offers emstudents
during the period of the Christmas
Vacation, beginning about December

ployment to university

Application should be made as
soon as possible to the Superintendent of Mails, Room 301, Dominion
Public Building, Halifax.

— & _ . a # . =

 
“the 0 oldest College Paper oa Ajeetiea”
Palsy. cottons ‘THE | GAZET: } are those of

i | GAZETTE STAFF. ioe

r \......Bob McCleave
2 AE ee *
= re] oe Macdonald

seeteeedeceeeces ene ee ene n eal

cs aby ole cae cdecee tes Ed Morris
; Peter Donkin

Bun hace vas cesee nea sccrscesrgeesetanercs
4 oo peetsseteeeeesepeneeeenses sees David Coldwell
Exchahge..............ce++eseee+++++--Hugene Merry
Pees ooo ivcseoe is ssgersei.sscsDonald Oland

ve ebtereceretesecensecseutetcnsesess .James McLaren
4 : age ee ee Eileen Phinney

. oe : ‘ oe
WHITER CHRISTMAS

Christmas is actually three weeks away, but although this
one of. the earliest tenth issues of the Gazette to ever be
printed, ee do not indeed to let the festive season slip by withit this newspaper wishing all of Dalhousie University a very

MM Ee y Christmas and the compliments of the season.

Fora a while the prospects of a glad holiday were threatened,
as. month loomed black, ugly, terrifying. The

_ “Now where did |

put

those Sweet Caps?”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

FARMERS’

MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!

On A Cold Winter’s Night

A SHORT STORY

Mike paused a moment and reached into his pocket for a handful of
coins to keep the Salvation Army
pot “boiling”. Around him surged
the torrent of Christmas shoppers.
Barrington Street—hurrying men,
leisurely women, lagging families,
«cldiers, sailors, airmen of all ranks
and nations—all laden with ‘parcels
and intent on their gifts.or the joys
of rest and fireside, and ‘ casually
ignoring their fellow shoppers.

Snowflakes whistled and danced
on the wind, and stung his face and
settled against his khaki uniform
in cool perfection for a moment before disappearing forever. Halifax
on the day before Christmas! Halifax where every facility was overtaxed—houses, theatres, street-cars,

Mrs. Sheffield—a short fat, motherly woman had made the two soldiers feel at home instantly. “My
oldest boy’s in the Navy”, she had
explained, “so I know how it is to
be away from home for Christmas.
| We just decided to have a couple of
soldiers home to give them a good
time.” After Mike, Bill, and Jack
had brought in the green fir tree
from the verandah, and firmly secured it in its stand in a Corner
of the dining room while the girls
unpacked ornaments and lights they
were already for sandwiches and pie
and cocoa that Mrs. Sheffield had
prepared. Then everyone turned to
the task of trimming the tree—talking merrily. Mike became helplessly
entangled in the strings of lights till

Bill rescued him. It seemed like no
time at all before Mr. Sheffield was
{Standing in the door admiring the
tree and throwing tinsel on .the
branches. “Time for some carols,
Mother”, someone suggested, and
then they gathered around the piano
to sing “The First ‘Noel’, Silent
Night”, “Good King Weneelas”, and
“Adeste Fideles.”

The morning dawned clear and
cold with magic patterns of frost
on the window panes. The snow
lay white and sparkling over roads,
houses, fields and forest making delicate fairy lacework on trees and
hedges. Breakfast was early and
generous — oranges, cereal, eggs,
toast and mince pie. Then everyone
gathered around the tree to open
‘the gifts. All the family had presents
for the soldiers—pipe, tobacco, socks
knife, tie, handerchiefs, ete.. The
Sheffields greatly appreciated Mike’s
gifts, sand especially Bill’s explanation of how he happened to have
them. Mr. Sheffield listened to\ the
overseas broadcast—“I sort of feel
that it’s part of Christmas to listen
to the Empire program”. Dinner
at noon was magnificent—so good
that Bill and Mike protested when
they were ordered to get ready to
go skating. Mike couldn’t skate, but
'be was kept busy stoking the fire
Poe and sweeping the ice, and he enjoyed

TRinke of 5 the jokes of the skaters and Soe

outdoors in the cool air and bright

The against the dawn, and the price of} °4" in the country, When they re
wheat per bushel. Bill was a mechan- | turned to the house—tired but happy
Green Lantern ic as much as a farmer. He thought | and full of comradeship, they relaxed
Maritime cver a game of dominoes while lisAid fashioned: | tening to the immortal Mr. Scrooge

ek sive : |cver the radio.
Mike had finished his Christmas| f

7 shopping for his family a couple of} “!’ve got a team of horses and a
weeks agu—but now he still had | Seigh, and | thought we’d go for a
money to burn and everyone was | Sleigh ride. It’s lovely out, but the
buying. Suppose he was going some-| horses are pretty lively”, sid Mr.
where for Christmas, what would he| Sheffield regretfully. “I’m afraid I
bay ?, can’t handle them, and the army
“Hey, Mike! Mike! Lockit, I’ve moves on wheels now, so I guess
been hunting for you everywhere.” there’ Te GENS". “I can drive,
Bill who was even taller and|*it’» said ee
broader than Mike, but he was blue- horses home.”

7 i ye of Rommel had not been started, the Russians were | ®
still pees ard at Stalingrad, and the British had not driven | )
into Tunisia, assisted by their American allies, who were to
a diplomatic conquest of French colonies.

pee ti is a changing view now, with Allied arms,successful and
i Pararis than equal to their foes on all fronts. As I write this,
ve _ the news of the scuttling of the French fleet flashes in excitedly
my swspaper teletypes. The Russians and Winter are taking
an extraordinary toll of Russia’s foes, the Rumanian, Italian,
ts patie and German troops.
_ But no battle is more closely won than the struggle to
intain faith, which has democratically survived some of the MacLeod * Balcom
errible years of disaster any people have. ever faced. Cites
Gas we faced steel with only our courage, and what
aChurchill could say of the R.A.F., we would say of England, oO
_ never was so much owed so many by so few. DRUGGISTS

_ There is still a war to be won, and after that a peace. Of ge

2 war, most people can see the prospects of victory, but only Headquarters for Students Kuk at |

r. more terrible sacrifice and toll. Requirements atat...

, i EVANGELINE

TEA ROOM

564% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

restaurants, stores, and where servicemen were a dime a dozen,

Mike pushed his way again inté
the flowing tide of humanty, and
stared desolately into the lighted
windows. The wet snow squelched
under his heavy boots on the pavement. In town not even the snow
Was snow—at home now the snow
was white and beautiful and unfamiliar.

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

THE

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX

Phone B-7133

A wave of homesickness assailed
him. He went into Eaton’s and began
the dreary round of counters again.
‘Lonight was Christmas Eve. At
home on the farm the boys would)
be coming back from the woods with
the Christmas tree; Mum would be
stuffing the goose; and the kids
would be making candy. And here he
was on his first Christmas away
from home—in Halifax with only a
thirty-six hour leave — not long
enough to go home!

His friend, Bill, from the West,
had given his name to someone to
invite him ‘eut for Christmas, and
had tried to persuade Mike to do the
same. But who would want a soldier
for Christmas, especially a shy one
like him who had never been anywhere yet—till the war started.

Bill was a farmer too, but he was
confident and could always think of
something to say. He thought of a
farm as a rolling prairie, and plowing as a square mile a day with a_/|
tractor, “and yellow wheat waving

rehabilitation of their countries-will be the

diate concern nd responsibility of victorious democracy,

but the longer view question concerns the order of international

; government or lack of it which must be the most serious
te ro lem to be faced.

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR |!
KENTVILLE, N. 8.
i

| canes special issue of the Gazette has been purposely chosen
-€0

For Vour
Christmas List

A Dalhousie ring, in
sterling or gold—from
your family—to you.
Birks carry them in
stock.

cide with the Christmas issue. We feel there is some
thing significant in the fact that Allied faith has been rewarded

with no greater success of arms t an that now; while the exist- |

- r ing personnel of the 0.T.C. are playing little part i in the present
ee they will in the ultimate victory.

__ Faith is the unknown substance of life. With it, mountai ain ; can be moved, and without it, we are as sounding brass
inkling cymbal, the Bible would say.

Bsn" We have been perhaps blind too long to the force villifying
:, the dignity of free mankind; as yet many are-unawake to the
oa Ee critical danger to our civilization we face should we

| Die lose. Our faith to victory may have been blind to the reality
a of a tense and vital situation, but we are nonetheless gaining
4 of victory. A happy-go-lucky spirit in John Canuck, |
e haps; but nevertheless the fact remains our faith can be

—rewe rded with a really deserved Christmas this year.

After any Show

or . . *

Before any Meal

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Registered Jeweller

 

American Gem Society
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

farming was small and

mo THE TIGER HAS WINGS
Bee, The air-minded government has finally reached this Uniart versity, and there are able prospects a University Air Training
ee ees will fufiction here. The campus has greeted with mingled
_ emotions the new arrival, or prospective arrival. To some it is

disappointing addition, for it will mean the caref ully erganized |

nd trained Officers’ Training Corps will lose a large part of its
bers hip. To the younger students it offers a chance of
t entrance into the Airforce which would otherwise have

to be. postponed until the college life was over.

In this war-Christmas issue of the Gazette, we greet the

ival. War in its definite air mindedness was only to

time befor re training along airforce lines began here. After

la € campus will be personalized by two uniforms,

sides, the traditional co-ed dress. There are definite advan
s too, after the initial pangs of birth (chiefily to the 0.T.C.)
gone, leaving it is hoped only faint scars.

In ane first place, there will be engendered competition
itself is for any organization. Whereas before colort “depended na ee 0.T.C., . will now have to depend
rf ad as Wi eremonials connected to college life : ;
ve to be conducted jointly. Perhaps competition, to re- ae oe Tees
let will revive much of the interest of the lesser ~ a

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.

We al
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada. We always have

‘Let’s go! we'll have
: eyed and fair haired instead of dark, | “™¢ for a nice ride before the boys
Ar ience F OT srt " wes

; ts and Science aculty grabbed him by the shoulder, “I have to catch the bus. Mike was
Degrees», B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

put your name down with mine at|“@lighted, This was something he
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education,

the hostel, and we’re' going to the could do to give the others pleasure.
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, country for Christmas! C’mon\man.| MiKe Was happy and contented
- Modern Languages and History.

We've got a bus to catch! Bring with Helen sitting beside him as he
Graduate Courses of recognized standing, lending to degrees those parcels along, whatever they |@tided the horses and the Sheffields
of M.A., M.Se.

ara and their neighbors sang behind
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties. By midnight Mike was’ bewildered pee
Course in Public Administration.

with joy. He and Bill had-clambered! ge ai of a white Christout of the bus at the village of Ter- Ws

paeey, veluablsaciolarships, on entrance and through fot. é bal eon ele ae Just Bee the one we used to

the full moon shone down on the have.

white drifts and dark buildings and; The horses trotied briskly along

clusters of trees. A middle-aged man | *®® "arrow winding road and dark

had introduced himself.‘ My name’s|Sapes loomed and faded in the dis
 

pone the cot so that major sports Heacame the Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

at remains grounded, we do not think next
| this year's corps will experience after
again. But to both, in this special issue
mind that air corps and O.T.C. will need
Ty “to build and rebuild respectively, and

‘ a
‘ s

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.

in the B.Sc. course, about

Residence

$190 a year,

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

f

Sheffield. You’re looking for me, I
guess. This is my daughter Marie,
her friend Helen, and my son Jack,
I own the store across the square
there. Do you want to go dancing
at the Hall or go home and help
trim the tree?” “Home”, Peon had
uttered fervently.

tance. The bright moon shone down
from an azure Sky on the peaceful
Nova Seotian countryside—shining
on the snowy fields and pasture, and
throwing shadows on the lake and
the purple wooded hills rising behind it. The cold wind whistied by

Continued on’ page 3

 
   
 
  
  

Fe i

ee! “tet

. “By A w..0. Lo

  

Private inane}

 
 
  

 
 
 

 

> at ‘camp, and

w teen we, have,
Gre

  

) ye ny the sound of the bugle vhasen
e ts. alee the men

  

  

is to be in-a vital in
into my underwear, ‘heeding t the call

    
 

and shivered i in ‘the cold of the early
- mgrning while I extricated the erste | while missing link» in my: shaving
| _“kit—the eréam.
om
One of my ‘team-mates, yon
- Petit, wa 3 gazing intently and in an
| interested iddeinecreat at my HappySeat flannels while I redonned them.
P a Ee “Does this. model do something do
f i seu “Does tl this model do something to
E BP ou “Of: don’t they indulge where
you: tome from,”. I snarled at him.
is rt “Those things are going to look
i ee awful funny with your gym shorts,
Be eg he said. —
ee a 7 “They'd look even funnier without
a ‘the gym shorts”, I blurped, “Besides,
Tm dressing for warmth, not rooy. " manee,”. ees
fc r I stepped out with the others, with
ta v eyes ‘popping from our heads like
. a adders. It was the first time I ever
ss saw =a hangover organized into
platoons. We followed our goose_ pimples down to the parade ground,
4 a) where some. burly physical instructa Het ors were noisily flexing their biceps,
BRA d the biceps on their biceps, and
ane

pawing the ground while snorting
ve louds os ‘steam* into the et air.

     

a

   
  
 
 
 
   
       
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
    
      
 
   
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
   
 
   

 

:

Ps

NOEL, NOEL. Christmas comes
but once a year, and when it does it
; P bvings exams—holidays—and pres: nie Why don’t you do what a lot
of people are doing and give records
red J for Christmas? Give Mother Tschaia ik cowsky’s “Pathetique” Symphony
+ mi o. 6 in B Minor), or his Romeo
and Juliet” Overture. Your father’ll

us, Voice of Militza Korjus”. Old4 he “Twentieth Century—1900” (Vie- |
tor P-21) or an album of Sigmund
R omberg, Victor Herbert, or Stephen
' Foster (of which there are many
fine 2 Columbia and” Victor sets available) will appeal to them. Give your
the Victer album of Artie
W's Orchestra, and your brother
0 ‘ boy friend will go for Columbia’s
eight-to-the-bar Boogie Woogie al_ bum in A big way. Perhaps he’d preer N.B.C.'sChamber Music Society
fF Lower Basin Street” with comments by Gino Hamilton and vocals
i Dinah Shore. (Victor albums
Sse, P-86). The girl friend will love
Peedial of Tommy Dorsey’s new Victor records (“Daybreak”, “There Are
4 ‘Such Things”, or “Street of Dreams”
=all hits), or, if she’s a sophistocate,
present her with a David Rose’s “Our
ae Waltz” over which we raved with
ia cutter abandon last week. Decca will
yelease it’s new Alec Templeton al| so bum in time for the Christmas trade.
In it he does his specially et ak
Ei versions of “Blues in the ae ht”, the |
' _“Pathetique” Symphony, and the

as
364
6
0
mre.
Td


qn A minor, Place it high on yo
ee: list of lasting music. Records {

» at they'll be most see a

  

  
 
 

AD

: | son are So plentiful and popu
<3 a a

: Fr

a]

atankbts:: realizing bitterly ‘eae it
. I jumped |

Pe _ to Physical T.. I jumped out again |

 

IN, THE GROOVE

A Column of Record News and Reviews

i ke am album of Strauss waltzes or |

c new Victor album, “The Glamor-| the excellent American Legion Band

Ee. people might like “Song Hits of ‘the album (No; 22) is readily avail
      
   
   
    
  
    
 
  
  
 
 
  
   

very popular Greig” Piano oe
i

yet

aid we shrank back with frightened)

gasps. —

The first thing he did was ‘to tell}
us to reach dor
without _ ‘bending © our. knees. Some

, tried to carry out. this mad scheme,

and had to be rolled off the field like

hoops. Then? we had to run around in
circles,

“Another Jap and I would
have needed burial! I trotted out of
the ‘ring.

“What's the idea of edoine bellowed I. Y.

“I know the route’, I panted,
“when do I deliver the papers?”

At that moment a medical officer
beetled up to see what was wrong.
His eyebrows shot up as he applied

his rubber wish bone to my chest.

“If that’s static that bothers you,”

I said, “my stomach rumbles quite |.

a bit.”

I was told to take a deep breath.
{ did. Ghen he spoke somewhat testily, “Take a deep breath, please.

Bring the air up through the nose

and into the...

“T know how to do it”, I said. “I’ve
just done it.”

“You’va already taken a deep

breath?” said the M. O. suspiciously. I answered I had.

“Have this man’s next-of-kin informed at once, and start warming
up the stretchers in the bull-pen”.

I staggered back to my platoon,
which was valiently retreating from
the field with its dead and wounded,
and went to breakfast.

* * *

(Ed’s note: Tired of following
A.W.O.L. through his traineesca| pades, we mercifully draw a curtain
over camp life and breakfast. Readers may satisfy their tastes by
journgying to Aldershot this spring.)

XV

lieizing the stock of martial music.
Cream of the crop is Victor’s album
of Famous Marches (P-5) by Edwin
Franko Goldman and his Band.
“Semper Fidelis”, “American Patrol”
and six other popular marches are

included in the album.

Decca lists a five-record “Collection of Marches by John Phillip
Sousa”, the March King. Played by

of Hollywood, but I don’t know if

able in Halifax stores. The U. S.
Artillery Gong, “Caissons Go Rolling Along’, has been widely recorded, all the way from Victor Military
Band to Shep Fields on Bluebird and
Horace Heidt’s excellent Columbia
platter. Newer war song’s,, such* as
the U.S. Tank Corps song (composed by Hoagy Carmichael, no less)
end the Bombardier’s song have, as
yet, not been recorded, and this is a
pity. We must, therefore, be content
with Russ Morgan’s Deeca record
of “This is the Army”.

The latest commercial thoughthe-less popular war hit, “Praise
the Lord and Pass the Ammunition”
has been well recorded on nearly every label. Kay Kayser’s Columbia
record was the first to appear, and
it has been closely followed by the
Victor record by the Southern Sons’
spiritualistic treatment which struck
me as being extremely de rigeur,
butf which will undoubtedly sell well
and hang on forever because I detest the tune anyway.

s

 

te

ioe ‘SEASONAL SONGS: With ex
quisite timing, the Irving Berlin hit

fepea: “Holiday Inn”, “White Christmas” has entrenched itself in the

‘|mumber one position on your Hit

—

| eee to the ovizent of all con
>

si

   

and touch our toes |

|in Canada’s war effort today. With
a
SS

a aaaeER: ag

 

"Engineers come first in importance

out engineers we would have no
tanks, or aeroplanes, no rifles or
guns, in short, no equipment for the
fighting forces. To train a man in
the engineering profession takes,
normally five years from junior matriculation. Accelerated courses are
to come in the future, after a considerable argument for and against
at Ottawa.

We here at Dalhousie, have been
strongly urged to stay at university
and finish our coursess, as we will be
of more value to Canada today if
we do. The great influx of freshmen
this year shows how popular the
engineering profession is, also the
excellent response to the appeal of
the government for as many engineers as possible. When the engineering course is completed at Dalhousie, two more years are required
at Nova Scotia Technical College or
some other college,

Meantime, all of us are anxious
to finish our courses as soon as possible. Every medically fit engineer
is in the O.T.C.; and there are two
officers, the R.S.M., one sergeant and
a half dozen corporals. »Last year, |
about fifty per cent of the graduating class joined the Army and all
havé since received their commissions. This year most of the graduates plan to continue at Nova Scotia
Tech or McGill.

To get a little bit away from this,
we try to get a little change now
and again and after Christmas is
the Boilermakers’ Ball on January
15, at the Nova Scoian. There was
some talk of cutting out this affair
this year, but it was decided that
since all other big formals are cancelled, it should be held: After that
a sleigh drive is in the offing, and
rena: the latter part of February,
the annual banquet to round things
off for the year.

The best of luck in your exams,
mighty engineers, and A Merry
Christmas and A Happy New Year
to all.

 

On a Cold Winter Night

(Continuet' from page two) |

cessful

Mike making him tingingly aware |
of being alive. “This has sure been)
2. grand Christmas”, he thought.
Almost as good as being home. The
people here are nice, just like home.
And it’s worth fighting to make
certain that these people aren't
bombed, and starved and frozen—
so that the fields, and houses, and
lake will always be peaceful, and the
Spirit of Christmas will always be
alive here.
P. Rk B.

much artistically, buy Bing Crosby’s
old Decea dise of “Adeste Fideles”’,
which every year about this time
becomes, inexplicably enough, a bestseller. Another perennial hit nowadays is-the Bluebird record of Glenn
Miller’s “Jingle Bells” coupled with
Alvino Ray’s “Santa Claus is Coming to Town”, (That is, kiddies, if

| Superman one get him loose from
those nasty Nazis.)

like that. It’s only the formalin which
preserves the animal currently un
 

 

  

nee In ntimate Glimpses or Tolleve Life -- No. 9

 

On “Pre-Meds”

by R. M. p
I live in the same house with a
pre-med, Any non-scientific student
in the same predicament will be able
to sympathize with me. I have learnto look before I leap and have
learned, as well, not to think while
I am eating.
' To begin, when you enter the
house a heavy odor assails you. It
isn’t the dinner burning or anything

der inspection.

Last year it was worms and frogs.
This year it is a lampray (of the
snake family, I believe). Next year
I suppose it will be bones or that
thing off which Maddin lost the leg.
Of course, I can always be thankful
that I will have graduated before
he begins on human autopsies

I learned my first lesson last year,
through a horribly unnerving experience, Now, however, before I jump
into a bathtub, I look carefully to
make sure that I am not sharing
the occupancy of my steaming tub
with a couple of frogs,
stages of dissection.

in various

My second lesson was learned
when I sat down to dinner the day
of a biology quiz and discovered a

irog.on the table by his plate. He}

would excitedly point out the bile
duet or the nervous system with the
prongs of his fork, then placidly go
on eating his dinner. Ever since,
when I sit down to a meal, I begin
to wonder if my fork has been previously used in the interests of
science,

The latest innovation of this active
mind has been the use of the telephone in studying for a zoology quiz
It was only last week that he used
the phone for a whole evening, off
end on, while he argued, in biological
terms, with a contemporary in the
other end of the city.

When he gets his M.D. I imagine
he’ll still be doing things in a novel
way .., perhaps removing an offending appendix by remote control.

Friday Thirteen Has
‘No Terror For Mt. A.

By €.U.P. Editor

We see that the Pine Hillers were
not the only superstitious people.
The students of Mount Allison University proved that the number 13
can bring good luck as well as bad

when a variety concert sponsored
by the 8.C.M. After the highly sucshow, someone mentioned
'the date, and idly counting up, per| formers were astonished to find that

 

 

the show had been haunted by
thirteen jinxes.

The date was Friday the 13th.

There were 13 items on the programme,

There were 18 violins in the orchestra.

There were 13 seats in each front
row.

There were 13 on the 8.C.M. executive.

There were 13 ushers.

There were 13 sections in the railing on Juliet’s balcony.

One performer had 13 cents in his
pocket.

The show lasted two hours and 13
minutes.

_ One electrician had 13 stripes in
his SOX.

Another electrician walked ‘under
a stepladder backstage. |

The conductor of the orchestra
was born on the 18th of July.

f ~

 

 

 

 

  
   
 
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
      
     
     
       
      
  

*“Iee-cold Coca-Cola is more than thirst
quenching. Yes siree. It’s refreshing. There’s

an art in its making. There’s know-how in its

production. The only thing like Coca-Cola is

Coca-Cola itself. Nobody else can duplicate it.”

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

‘“

653

DALHOUSIANS ...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES

KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOTEL

THE NATIONAL FISH Co.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

CAPITOL
*

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

 

Fader’s Drug Stores/|| “The Avengers ”

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

|

Nova Scotia ) |
SS SSCs

)

HALIFAX

Amazing Story of Norway’s

Secret Front

aaa

 

=

GARRICK
*

Bec. 5;°7, 8,9, 10; 11

“LADIES IN RETIREMENT”
Ida Lupino — Louis Hayward

pve

Thursday - Friday

 

- Saturday

| “Here We Go Again”
Fibber McGee and Molly

Dec. 12 :
ANGELS HAVE
WINGS” |
Cary Grant — Jean Arthur

Saturday,
“ONLY

 

ORPHEUS

Dec. 7, 8 and 9

“COUNTER ESPIONAGE”

“MEDICO OF
PAINTED SPRINGS”

”

Dec. 10, 11 and 12 .

“THE CORPSE VTNISHES”
“ARIZONA CYCLONE”

*

Starting
Saturday, Dec. 5

*

“GET HEP

OXFORD TO LOVE“

Monday and Tuesday
“SYNCOPATION” .

 

“SUICIDE SQUADRON” Starring
Wednesd d Thursd CLOBIS
nesday an ursday
“THEY FLEW ALONE” JEAN
“THE MAGNIFICENT DOPE
EP, Baie ad Reece ronan
riday and Saturday ’
“THE GAY SISTERS” O’CONNOR
“LITTLE TOKIO U.S. A.”

 

  
      
   
  

anne”.

 
  

"hee sie ar i)

&
7
|
ee
ee

 
 
    

 

  
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
   
   

  

 

 

 

 

, wa - 2s oP is ‘a
nena et ae es ¢ ‘De 2m ber 4, 1942 |
—
—
p.__ en: es | ee ee ~~ |
ol | eleuinsubatatiri ical sins: teat “IF YOU WANT TO SEE
¢ R. oe T \ L WELL, SEE WALLACE” DIANA SWEETS
~ €iRea his Attic e, Learn to Play - THOMAS WALLACE TEA ROOM o
Hint Wie caited . . SONS AND DAUGHTERS
"| Regular practise sessions for basketball are now underway SIGHT SPECIALISTS 370 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
in the Gym, on Monday, Thursday, and Friday at one o’clock, || Y.M.C.A. Building Halifax B-9754 |
| and the prospects for basketball this coming term look rather Phone B-6881 Woe idee od eee “
n on better than usual. Increased enrollment, particularly among —
And as ‘far a8, football players in ite Minas Basin tide, the Studley undergrads, bodes well for considerable renewed eg ee a 4
Lae ” . é ‘
aM Chipman said so, but, like all true Axemen, lied. interest, both in senior and interfaculty competition.
‘cer ay . , , ae A tars) 1 i FS ROLL
-y Ss . = vigor, this column has been indicted as ia eg ee hee as eae a Quality Shoes
ering of a “moronic and insulting verbal outburst” b eee en ree *
of the somewhat gory ent A axel Eten the game, the “Gazette” respectfully Hockey Plans Face For Fall apne Crren ie |
U tu | : : ah *
okly “Athenaeum”. J. sania | 1 wish people would submits these pointers to aspiring Ski ds: P ts D ll BARBER SHOP
h hands i in their pockets. Calling me a moron— | 2%didates. » # FOspec u Four Experienced Barbers
“m DE eile sani a dine pots ee ea ea Basking blissfully in the sun, with Now is the time to Buy A ?
Rs *| their little tootsies dangli in th
coach whose talents have been| This increases the driving power be-| icy brine officialdom - sees ears one Raven sor
ied 3 : : . ; POOL PPIPPOD
| ee Yea ee kaa aah ani ms arm and cuts down wind | for the welfare of the great national Men and Women. *
a tphisaas's ear a FORISLANCE. pastime of ice hockey refuse to ROSEDALE NURSERIES
by aieas . 2. The ball should be directed to-| emerge from their smoke - ridden Idi
eks back. For that effort L point- no comment on the dastardly ref- re ey ¥.M. C. A. Building — B-7530
d ow “that Coach “Fred” Kelly of|erence to, Dalhousie’s deliberate i ie = oe ae Sea 28 C eee 68 any She Pourene Be Wallace Bros. 381 Baarrington Street
eo ae Re ea ake ahah GP “a. ‘gaiae;-ete,, etc ackboard when 0 om elemental intelligence as to the fu- ea : den Road - B
entrar which oe ok Wikcnl to Bettie je aig right side, and towards the top right | ture prospects for the winter season. Limited 31 Spring Garden Road - B-6440
: dee Salta? odin. Mel Chip- corner when thrown from the left| About as clear as the traditional 415 BARRINGTON ST. We Specialize in CORSAGES
re ae se f a side. This is a vital precaution to| mud, hockey plans have definitely Halifax, N ; ; :
Mls the eh oe you g0, 200, YOU! prevent the throw from falling! hit the skids. alifax, N. S. and All Kinds of Design Work
# Ok O* ei Dic setab 6 taein, chowla bs Closing down of the City Senior fic ,
aay) alluded to Coach Kelly’s| Oh, sure, I know. O.K., O.K.,, [’ll Be ini eanuenily yosults i League leaves plenty of time for in ap ees). ‘

   
   
  

say it. Don’t shove me. All right,
shut up. Here I go. “Merry Christmas.” Yes, let us make it a merry
Christmas in a manner befitting the
day. And let us remember, too,
that there are many of our friends
of Christmas may not be supplanted
by forces of oppression, tyranny,
and bad sportsmanship., Which reminds me: if you happen to scalp
an Axeman during the festive ceremonies( remember there’s a bounty
on wolves in sheep’s clothing.

inde bted reputation, but just as

T put it at that time, of “blowing

o an otherwise decent chap who
nee ds no blowing up.”

Wea am not much soneerond with
— Mr. Chipman thinks about me
or my mother. If that were the
sole issue involved, I would mark

down his libel as traditional Acadia
ie sry. What I do want is that

     
 

 
  

     

get

 

: | ok ly recognize that Dalhou
xe 4! ‘sie. ‘students. one and all, goers

Ry Gir of Dalhousie
Do Their Part

¥ Tn the ae of 1942 we find the
girls playing a very active part on
: behalf of the war effort. Of course
girls have always done their part for
the services in the way of social en
 

the Civilian Defence Bureau under
the supervision of Major O. R.
Crowell.

Co-eds are also. seen ‘dashing
around with their knitting needles
under their arms. Whether knitting
for the Red Cross or our own Buck
Private, girls of Dalhousie are “knitting” for Britain.

 

. are Gof hosides this we find an tN oa Nak gs Held January 5 examine into, elucidate, clarity, in- lections for Father, Mother, Brother, Sister, and others
= bind giving thes ‘tints to-cvarious Shiel ds Promote d vestigate, resurrect, discuss, deliber- on your Gift List NOW!
; eee demands. : : The Medical and Dental graduat- ate, and otherwise undertake partiee iseine it, are instructed| 10 Managing Editor | ine classes will hold their official |cipation in such a schedule. “Are you
fit classes of Home Nursing. The} Ted Shields, news editor of the | Ceremonies the fifth of January, it ENS ‘ Nes eee, Sy ’ i
__Fesponge to the offer of the Home/ Gazette, will become managing ed-|Y#* stated this week from the Uni-| Points west’ EATON'’S Christmas Shopping Service

ay, een course was so enthuiastic
1t it was necessary to provide two
Pa which are aptly conducted
b ‘by Mrs. D. L: Cooper on Tuesday
ra evening and by Miss Helen Robertei is. on Thursday. These lectures are
f oy iven at Shirreff Hall and provide
an excellent opportunity for pre\. rf paring girls for jobs they may have
ae perform in the future.
Girls of Dalhousie are giving fully
of their time both to the Wings Club
_ and to the Canadian eae War
Another course in which tela will
‘be taking an active part after Christmas vacation will be that of fire

itor after Christmas, and will undertake the duties of makeup and composition of the front page, it was
revealed Tuesday night by the
Gazette news reportorial system is
editor. Mr. Shields, to whom most of
the credit for the rejuvenation of the
due, has had much experience with
newspaper work. The promotion
comes as a result of haying more
time for the Gazette.

An editor of the newspaper of the
Windsor Academy, the Announcer,
his own paper published at the same
time, and editor of the Academy
Year Book, Shields besides has written “Behind the News” for The Hali
 
   
 

the ball falling through the basket,
which counts two points for the
other side.

4. Rubber boots should be worn
at all times’ since sneakers hurt the
feet.

5. The ball should be waxed before being put into play, and should
be no more than half inflated, to
prevent damage to the surface.

6. For those who own
gloves are a decided asset.

them,

7. No attempt at keeping track of
points should be made since this
lessens the aesthetic value of the
sport and engenders too much competition.

?

Graduation

versity office. Several graduates of
Dentistry and several dozen medical
grads will be in the ceremonies. Dr.
Charles Best, co-discoverer of Insulin
will be the guest speaker.

. The graduation will feature little
of the ceremony and show that is
traditional part of the spring graduation. Reason: weather.

News Briefs

Dalhousie debaters were unsuc- |
cessful last week, both et U.N.B.
and St. F. X. The first Sodales de
tercollegiate followers of the sport,

but as yet only Dalhousie has ventured forth a voice of willingness to
get down to brass tacks. Responsible campus officials beam on the
idea of an intercollegiate loop consisting of teams representing Dal,
Tech, St. Mary’s, and possibly a service squad or two.

interested representatives of the
above-mentioned to get together for
a slight pow-wow and talk the whole
thing over. From their astute deliberations may emerge any intercollegiate league of old. First undertaking will be in the obnoxious
subject of money, and the outlook
can be clarified if the interested
parties are willing to co-operate on
an equitable basis.

Dalhousie stands ready to invite,

Child Labor

 

i
eA
. 7
~
Pe! ES
A be

Aaron Feld, of the Seeaih Child fy

Welfare Association, Toronto, addressed the Sociological Club of Dal
and King’s at a regular meeting
held Wednesday afternoon in the
Arts building. President Bill Bishop
introduced the speaker. Honorary
president is Dr. S. H. Prince, Professor of Sociology.

Discussing the child problem in
wartime, Mr. Feld pointed out that
institutions for the benefit of child

3 ting. A girls’ Fire Fighting| fax Herald, and feature articles for| bate of the year at St. F. X. was| welfare had been neglected for
a e will be conducted through | the Gazette. held on Sunday night, the subject| many years, while foster homes,

‘

 

“IT DOES tk oe IN A PIPE!’

 

 

 

Picobac ‘ie: a universal language. Mild,
- cool, sweet, it gives an extra-mural course

in the fine and pleasant art of Pipe Smokan - ing. Any rake apenas tries it will graduate

#F icoba

SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

 
   
 

being “Resolved that modern advertising is more harmful than beneficial to society”, Dal taking the
negative.’ Representatives were
Ralph Vaughan and Charles O’Connell.

Friday another debate was held at
U.N.B., and Eileen Mader and Mar
| Delinquency is, as a result,

 

garet Farquhar were delegates for
the Delta Gamma Debating Society.

mostly unsuccessful, were regarded
as a solution to the homeless child
problem;. now, under wartime, with
parents at war, children were becoming “latch-keyed’”. with mother
leaving early in the morning for
work, and letting the children eat
acold breakfast and a quarter lunch.
on the
increase.

Do Your Christmas Shopping Early

This year, more than ever before, men and women
in Canada, members of the armed forces, will be calling

home to families

and friends in far distant places.

In order to make available the maximum of teélephone facilities for the use of service men and women,
please make your Christmas calls early.

On Sunday, December 20th, the regular low night
rates will be in effect all day, also after 7 each evening.

x If you do call, call early.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone
Co. Limited

i sili § Sa

\

a 8

 

 

 

 

The Friendly
Christmas Store

ATON’S is the place to do your Christmas Shopping! ... Plan to shop early and select gifts for
the family —for your friends! ...A choice of items
now on display at the Halifax Store—-make your se
If you wish to save time on your Christmas Shopping, bring
your list in to EATON’S Shopping Service Booth on the
Main Floor and have our experienced shoppers select, wrap
(there is an additional charge for this service) and send your
gifts for you!

 

4
TIMES LIM{ITEOD

 

PT SUT ee

|
;
Z

 

A National
favorite

9

 

wry

 
