 
 
  
 
  
  

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
 
  

 

 

  

Pine Hill Residence Becomes
Mecca For Students In A City

Where Housing Problem Great

News item:

“A medical director in the Canadian Army has announced Pine
Hill College has been requisitioned for use, and the buildings would
be taken over at an undisclosed date.”

Pine Hill Divinity Hall is a residence for men. (A residence means
that you send out your plate for a
‘second’ with the V for Victuals
written on it in tomato catsup, and
it comes back with “So what”). But
more important than that, it affords
one of the last havens of a batteredby-requisitioning Dalhousie student
body, which has seen its residences
disapper to become battleships.

At present this Hall houses the
remnants of King’s College, a large
number of Dalhousie students (medicine amd Arts, Science) and a considerable number of its own divinity
students.

Creeds and Races

To its bosom the Hall has taken
most of the foreign students at Dalhousie. These include West Indians,
and Viennese Jews, who were released from Canadian internment
camps. Then too there are the Newfies” who have a large number in
residence. In religion the Hall bears
the United Church flag, but numbers
Anglicans, Presbyterians, Methodists, Baptists, Jews in its student
body.

Adopted mother to this potpourri
of male intelligensia is Mrs. M. D.
Grant, hospitable, kindly matron.
Her “family” list extends to the
graduated men of Dalhousie who
have once stayed there, and who always come to visit her in the city.

Long hours of work are done in
an effortless fashion suggesting that
the Residence has a perfect system
of operation. Besides the cares of
an extraordinary household with its
supplies and huge rationing problems
Mrs. Grant plays the hostess to
many visitors, either returning
clergy and their friends, or the students of former years.

Pine Hill Prays

The population of the student body
housed here has grown tremendously
since the outbreak of war. Hospital
rooms, offices for the staff, all have
been turned into bedrooms. The
staf! of waitresses has seen the
lines of tables in the dining hall further filled during three years of war.

With such a mixture of students
of all pursuits and socially-different
background, there is excellent camaraderie. With a turn-about system
of chapel worship each night, all
Protestant students keep an intimate

touch with God accompanied by their |

 
   
   
 

There’s a lot of high spirits to
this student ‘body also. Regular
intra-floor basketball games have
been moulded into a league. Since
the playing floor has two large
posts squarely down the centre, an
extra nimbleness and dexterity is
gained under such conditions.

Then too, Pine Hill’s practical
jokes extend far beyond the confines
of the college. One day before
Christmas, the boys hoaxed several
Shirreff Hall girls and a couple of
Medical students by ‘“impersonations” over the telephone.

That on Shirreff Hall was the
easiest of all: play upon the feminine
vanity of that famed institution.
The “impersonator” under a terribly
good English accent devasted one of
the girls at the Hall into asking him
for a meeting. He asked her when
she answered the phone to get him
an English girl for a date, but after
a few minutes interval, she cunningly cooed: ‘Well, I’m not English...
but I’M available, and I do like English sailors.”

Great Cadavers

The other two on the wit parade
were Medicoes. One Dalhousie doctor was expertly imitated, and a
student asked what had become of
a hand of a corpse he was working
on. He was seared sweatless. The
other medical student was asked to
present his credentials to military
headquarters by “Lieutenant-Colonel
Boudreaux”.

These conversations were presented (details cannot be divulged because of a military secret) to the
entire student body of Pine Hill one
night. The hoaxees to this day are
probaly unaware of the authors of
the pranks played on them.

Men of Tomorrow

These students of Pine Hill have
something to their name intangible
as the greatnesses of democracy, and
more especially are a God-fearing
democracy. Drinking and gambling
which characterize most University
residences are not at all popular
here: the real vice of the place lies
in its large melee of radios and
phonographs, plus musical instruments which bewilder the non-participant every evening. But here too
common sense comes in, for quiet
hours are the rule and not the exception.

The men represent the ruling

fellows. King’s College also has its) middle class at study, and will some
own chapel life.

“We praise the|day lead the country themselves.

Lord for the democracy of Pine Hill” |The list of graduates is certainly

one student prayed one night.

distinguished,

 

Essentials of Airforce Life
Given by Squadron Leader

“Life in the Airforce is not as glamorous as Hollywood script-writers

is sheer hard work,
be
the

like to portray it,” Squadron Leader Gregory Vlastos told members
the U.A.T.C. at a lecture given last Tuesday noon in the Chemistry

and long periods of endless waiting

suffered by the R.C.A.F. boys overseas. One of the
Airforce has to deal with in keeping up morale among

the men is that of boredom, boredom bred of the unavoidable routine of

the

gi a
dig SEA >

ee alti eters on es apy

a fighting unit in smooth working order, and boredom bred of
chance to get into action. __

pare this background, Squadron Leader Vlastos went on to give
his impressions of what made a good fighting man of the Airforce. He

= intelligence, a sense of self-confidence or
; ee

 

   
  
    

ey

y,

ea ou

\ eu
id Ne -: ne?

Pawns .
;

    

Crack Navy Revue To
Be Shown In Gym Soon

The Gymnasium will be turned
over to the Navy League of Canada
for exhibiting the crack Navy show
at present on tour all over Canada.
This exhibit features some of the
most intimate details of naval warfare, anti-submarine warfare and
display of the seamen’s fighting
equipment that has ever assembled.
The Gym will be given over from
March 19 to March 31, Prof. H. R.
Theakston announced.

The large floor space required,
from six to seven thousand feet,
made the Gymnasium the only building in Halifax capable of making a
feasible exhibition. The arrangements for mantling and dismantling
the show take three days each, and
the public will view the masterpiece
March 22 to 27.

Included on display will be a model
of a “Tribal” class destroyer, torpedoes and mines in detail, antiaircraft guns and much of the equipment featured by Canadian corvettes
and destroyers, and of particular interest to Halifax, the bells of
H.M.C.S. Niobe, which operated out
of here during the last war. Navy
Minister Angus Macdonald may open
the exhibit.

Two organizations, the O.T.C. and
H.M.C.S. King’s, were directly affected by the move, which would keep
the use of the main floor from them
for the week of the exhibit, and have
signified intentions of cooperating.
Major Hogan stated in his weekly
press conference with the Gazette
that work would be carried out in
the lower basement, football field
and range during the week, which
the final drill period for the
cadets.

is

Successful Junior
Prom Last Night

Last night, the Dalhousie Juniors
held their annual prom at the Lord!
Nelson Hotel. Students and otherwise danced in blissful happiness to
Don Lowe and his orchestra, until
one o’clock. Attendance was limited
to only two hundred and ten couples,
and Seniors had to pay the usual
half price.

No financial statement has yet
been issued by the Prom Committee,
as to whether they went in the hole
or not. They probably did, but
what’s that among friends? The
Juniors always have fun, anyway.
Incidentally, the committee in charge
consisted of: Glen Hubley, Don Oland, Laura MacKenzie and John
MacLellan. Chaperons were Dr. and
Mrs. W. J. Archibald, Prof. and
Mrs. W. P. Copp and Prof. and Mrs.
C. L. Bennet.

Chinese Students

Give Lead

Under Difficulties
by KEL ANTOFT

CHENTU.—In some cases trekking 1500 miles on foot to escape
envelopment by the Japanese aggressors Chinese university students
incorporated into their studies investigation into the vital problems of
production facing their country.
Their studies quickly brought them
to action. In the country surround
i vised unive antics they

I

—_——

the |
ee ee ee

jaa

hey

, Reger) :
“y ll fics
rl eae,

j
<

as me
a aS ap Fae

  

 

Mounsey, Boswell, Clancy, Johnson, Sieniwicz, James, Morse

Bob Walter Award Pi Phi Production

Committee Is Named |

At a recent meeting of the
Engineering Society the Bob
Walter Memorial Award committee was chosen, consisting |.
of W. D. Hagen, C. McKim,
and M. Campbell, and Professors W. P. Copp and H. Theakston.’ The presentation will be
made this year on February 26
at the Lord Nelson Hotel.

Bob Walter graduated from Dalhousie in the spring of 1940, with a
B.Se. and a Diploma of Engineering.
In the fall of 1940 he was accidentally killed in a hunting - accident.
While at Dal Bob was a very popular
student. He was President of the
Engineering Society in 1940,
on the Students’ Council, was active
in O.T.C,, and in sports. He w

was a

| friend to all.

In 1941 the Engineering students
decided to institute an award in remembrance of their friend, Bob
Walter, to be presented at the annual
Engineers’ Banquet.
Vail was winner, and in 1942 Robert
Wilcox.

Hints Of No Exemption
ForCamp Aldershot

Official confirmation or denial of
the fact all students may have to
take camp training regardless of
war industry could not be had at a
late date last night by Gazette reporters. Rumors coming to this office from unauthorized sources were
responsible for part of the student
body becoming involved in a discussion about Camp Aldershot. Major
Hogan has announced the camp
would be held immediately after
Convocation, either for fifteen or
twenty-five days. Regular training
will stop on the 27th of next month.

This Sunday’s church parade may
have army band as accompaniment,
weather permitting, it was revealed.
The Roman Catholics will go to St.
Thomas Aquinas, led by Lieut. Don
Oland. The Protestants will march
to All Saints. The U.A.T.C., not
having complete uniforms, will not
join in the parade.

Plans for the O.T.C. Ball may be
radically changed because of the
Navy shew which is to be put on in
March 22 to 27.

   

served |

In 1941 Bert |

 

 

 

| surveyed by Yvonne Mounsey, pre
\“Spy Me This One” by John Kirk-| and whose sole part in the play
patrick did not in itself hold great | seemed to consist of battering down
allure for the Thespian aspirant but ithe flimsy props that Professer
under the extremely competent di-| Bennet allowed as scenery. Vaguely
rection of Mrs. K. C. Clarke it grew| absorbing the complicated plans

| soon exposed to a laughing acadiris |

\formance as the brain-starved off-|
ispring of idle society.

| Opinion, air power alone could accomplish this.

 

  

“ar ‘ lua) Jer Es "
a, ni ; oe / rye
1 f tts renee ye a" ‘ a al

 

No. 15

Acclaimed A Hit

by ALBERT WILANSKY Professor Bennett was present,

It looked more like Popeye swear-| acting as official judge of the Cening at Wimpy than a Programme | nolly Shield Competition.
sheet; with a cast of such characters} According to the so-called plot
as X MSQ4 OP13% Blank. However! Mrs. Evalina Brackett (Mary Johnthe secret behind these names was/son) enlists in the F.B.L. in a sincere
if misguided attempt to serve her
|country despite the efforts of Han‘nah (Barbara Sieni iewiez), a vociferous, benevolent “5th columnist”
whose sole aim in life is to protect
the person of her hostile mistress

audience as Ruth James, Sue Morse,
and Mary Boswell vied with each
other for sinister honors, languidly

sumably a past-mistress at the art. |

outlined by suave smooth F. B. IL,
agent - provocateur Susan Price
(Yvonne Mounsey), Mrs. Brackett
settles down to receive gracefully

into a well moulded, well supported
vehicle for starlet Mary Johnson
who turned in a most convincing per
 

|

(Contnued on page 3)

 

Dalhousie Institute of
Public Opinion

DiPO°?

DO YOU THINK THAT CONCENTRATED AIR POWER
CAN KNOCK JAPAN OUT OF THE WAR?

Since Allied strategy would definitely demand an attack at the heart
of Japan, this question-was asked to determine whether, in the students’
Most students agreed that
air power would play an important part in the battle for the Far East, but
its effectiveness as the sole weapon for Japan’s defeat was often doubted.

The opinions were very evenly split on this question, however, the
majority, 49% said that air power alone could not defeat Japan. A large
minority, 42%, believed in the effectiveness of air power, while 9% remained undecided.

 

 

With Sadie Hawkin’s Day just around the corner, we dug this one
out of last year’s Gazette. Adopting the customary procedure in such
cases we were completely impartial, and asked no girls, so that the
opinions would be completely unbiased. The question:

Se ey
DO YOU PREFER RESTAURANT WAITRESSES TO
COLLEGE GIRLS

Dal girls can gain bitter solace from the fact that they are gradually
gaining the edge on restaurant waitresses in popularity. Only 67% of
a boys preferred restaurant waitresses this year, as against last year’s

The complaints against the cageds were vehemently delivered by the
disillusioned males. They were classed as “too intellectual”, and “very
sophisticated”. “They’re all gold-diggers”, said one. “They lack oomph”
said another. “Vanity, vanity, all is vanity” was the only comment of
still another.

Soft eulogies fell from the lips of the boys when they referred to the
popular waitresses. ‘“They’re more responsive” said one, “They can cook,
too”, said another, pointing out that the best way to a man’s heart had
not changed. Some admitted that they preferred college girls at times”,
but would not go any further. The 26% who formed the minority that
supported the co-eds, were classed by the others as “permanently pinned”
and beyond help, A cautious 7% were in deep meditation, and had not
reached 2 oe on the Sepeant matter ¥ = time.

 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
    
 

 

 

\
"
|
t
|

   
 
 
 
 
   
  
   

he

hi
| Oe
i

i
nt

ging Edito ies wie © Bt Oe mee eee
teary Edito
notographic Editor ........

sen eee nnee

W. R. Lawrence,

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

 

lerwise, is hat the high

‘1 usually excels in
sh theme-writing and congues the leadership in Unisity, whereas the male stu
1 “is indifferent to better
writing. But give the two sexes
ypewriters and news assignents and the male comes out
> fan ahead there is little com
x “scale piemoint and
no woman is impersonal. This
is a great compliment to woman ordinarily, but it doesn’t
us here. Strictly nearer the truth, some women are
good echortors, but not successful women, lacking all that
rm and inability to exist
without men that makes a
woman.

One of the essentials of a good
news story is to write the most important part first and then describe Mrs. Jones’ hat if it is necessary. Cub reporters and _ the
feminine reporter do a complete
reversal, never getting beyond the
hat in many cases.

And so, week after next, a
Sadie’s issue of the Gazette will
come before the reading eye of
Dalhousie. Do not jump to unsteady conclusions: the fact this
editorial has classed women as
poor reporters does not mean the
Gazette will be any worse. In
fact, it stands to reason it can be
much better. This isn’t enigmatic,
for is the Gazette really a newspaper? Does one want straightforward reporting ?

Frankly, we've never been
able to answer that question.
One of the editors had a favorite expression he dinned last
term: “Now stop trying to
make a newspaper out of the
Gazette’. This same chap sat
in with the rest of the staff
when the famous “Pornogra
phic” Case had its hearing.

The second reversal of
straight “newspaperism” was
made in our “Zeitung” issue.
Personally we thought it clever.
Two other papers, Winnipeg
Free Press, and Toronto Varsity; had wsed the idea, but
then, they had acutal ‘“‘trial”’
invasions of their cities to spur
them on. Ours was a different
case.

Campus approval was not a
hundred percent for us, or
against us. Some few objected
(and very strongly too) while
the majority applauded. But it
still doesn’t answer the problem
of whether Dalhousie wants a
eee orward newspaper or
not.

So we feel that the co-ed
issue of the paper, while not on
a strictly reportorial basis, yet

eeeuceeoeeww eee eeeeeeeaeseneaaenee

=e 3 Ed tor * 2 a4. o' 8 Bale ews rveeee “sr.
ww) ’ B BGOF «0+ eer ee sesso e deere ereereecserere serene s Hid Morris

wee. & 8 2 eo B

bemee epuaed Oe. nea Oland

sseteeeeeoeee

ae ee Tm ana aay anna? Sear ann ener a ea

eee

¢ See '

THE GAZETTE are those of 
cannot te rAceiaed that ner represent the opinion of

 

 

GAZETTE STAFF

tor cere reeetcceneecereteeseeeseeeereeseeecess sBOD McCleave

Webster Macdonald
.... Ted Shields
.Peter Donkin

oe @ 4 @: 2 © @\4 € } @.2-6'e GO

dy Rie joke Coldwell
.. Laurie Allison

..see+.+s Bileen Phinney

ae vw ati
s - s’at
uy Be ee Funt

...Hileen Phinney

ores. 6 6' 2,8 6 6:8

; Bori Fan Jo Harvey, Kay Cox, James Campee ‘ Elaine Hopewell, Anscta Goodman.

V for Villification
The policy of depreciating
the enemy has grown into a

|new school of war thinking, ac
cording to recent avalanches of
abuse flung at Hitler, Mussolini
and Tojo. Among the exponents of this vile verbage is one

American news analyst, more’

noted for his sense of the dramatic (or the ridiculous) than
for his common-sense news
analyses.

There are many others too.
They must not speak of the
Nazi leader as Chancellor Hitler
but say’ bluntly: “the dirty
little beast of Berlin’; they
must not speak of the Italian
leader as Premier Mussolini,
but rather: “the flopping wop”’
they must not consider Tojo as

the Premier of Japan, but ra-| )

ther ‘unspeakable traitor’

In all due fairness to our oppenents, it may be said they are not
exactly a gang of imbeciles. Tojo
may:+have stabbed the United States
in the back with the devasting blitz
on Pearl Harbor, but to call it a
“stab” is only to quibble over the
niceties of war. It will rank as one
of the greatest assaults in history.
Hitler and Mussolini are clever, if
socially different, men.

The point is that the Germans,
even at the height of their “blitzkreig’”’ campaigns, when they received practically no opposition at
all, never ridiculed the British opponent. They showed respect for
reality. Perhaps they were not as
just in their opinions (public) of
Mr. Churchill, or other politicians
and statesmen.

Both sides in this war have
minized”
statesmen.

There are discouraging features to
this attitude.
those they feel culturally inferior,
or, quite conversely, culturally superior. To hurl back at the Nazis
means we either fear them dreadfully, or feel so superior that victory
is certain. In the case, we are
building up a false wall of confidence. The war will end with hard
fighting, and eventually the British,
aCnadian and American forces will
have to support the Red forees by an
attack on the “second front” of
Germany.

One of the results of ‘this war
should be the restoration of the human race to its proper dignity. That
is one of the great criterions of
present democracy: the right of any
man to command respect, to keep
his dignity. When we carry the
German races, defeated, into peace
conference, let us treat them with
due respect. And let us start building up a more proper conception of
them at present. By gaining the
right view of their abilities we shall
defeat them more easily.

will furnish one of the most interesting sources of reading for
the campus. We also expect
half the male population will
have to haul in their necks.

 

CHINESE STUDENTS—
Continued from page 1
co-operative production units. They
acted and still act as advisors and

organizers.
Besides small scale, mobile indus
' tries for the production of war

materials they reorganized the hitherte bankrupt rural handicraft industries which now supply much of
‘the civilian population as well as the
amy with goods that had been cut

PY A ery

sgmadiinn: 4i+ | 
“te

pagsiege gt soo

off by the invasion of the coastal
industrial centres.

The result of this move on the
part of the universities in actively
participating in the problems of the
masses of the people is restoring the
faith of the people in the universities
and in the people who go to them.
Of course, the fact that money is not
the criterion used to decide the fitness of any person for higher education plays a vital part in this too.

shaw Gor

= & bsisa mi.

4098

 

ie ea \
7 ae ;

i,

“ver- |
the names of the great.

People usually revile |

   

 

    
 

 

eee cid tale alia oe
ad ; 1
a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

SWEED q
CA pl Ray

CIGARETTES

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smok
FARMERS’ MILK
Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!
by
“TASTE: THE DIFFERENCE”

|

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

Four Experienced Barbers

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED
O
DRUGGISTS

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”
THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone B-6881

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

0

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

Birks and Gifts

are a

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    

The two words |

‘natural’!
Sixty years of serving
Canadians have brought
a wealth of experience
to Canada’s national
jewellers.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Registered Jeweller

0
WELCOME
TO

DALHOUSIE

American Gem Society
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

Vn SOOO ~ =

Dalhousie Uniuersity
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

hy . in 
|
Sy

thes Labbe as

 

 

  
  
     

 

 

 

 

 

ON PIPES

Virtuous indeed, is that youth who has not at some time made contact
with the “noxious weed.” Today youth makes this contact, chiefly through
the cigarette or cigar, often through “buts” “swiped” from the gutter
or from an ash-tray at home. A generation or two ago, a pipe of some
kind aided youth in yielding to temptation. The tobacco pipe is still
popular today although its glory has been dimned by the omnipresent
cigarette. Here at old Dalhousie the pipe is still much in evidence, and
a visit to Roy’s reveals that many and wonderful styles are affected by
students. One may see a sombre sophomore, glowering about him through
a cloud-of evil-smelling smoke (not the “boiling essence,’ ‘definitely ) which
emanates from an ancient and much taped pipe clamped between his
teeth; or a senior calmly puffing at a weird mechanism, which he claims
is absolutely the latest in “radiator pipes”; and last of all the rash freshman who sidles down the steps with a huge “Sherlock-Holmsian” pipe
draggling at his down chin, trying to appear nonchalant and endeavoring
desperately not to cough in front of some freshettes who look on with
a sly grin as they sift smoke between their pearly teeth and drop cigarette
ashes carelessly about the floor. Soon pipes and tobaccos become a topic
of conversation and strong words are spoken in support of favorite briar
or tobacco.

On the tobacco pipe there hangs a most interesting tale. The custom
of tobacco smoking may be said to be distinctly American—a custom which
existed in America before Columbus touched its shores. The most ancient
pipes have been found in tumuli or “pipe mounds,” chiefly in. Ohio,
Indiana, Iowa and Illinois. These ancient pipes were carved from porphyry or hard stone and consisted of a carved bowl but possessing no
definite stem. The carving was fantastic but vigorously expressed. These
early pipes besides indicating the universal prevalence of pipe smoking in
the ages before Columbus, are also of great ethnographic interest.

Among the North American In-;Japanese; the red clay bowl and
dians, “the tobacco pipe occupies a | long cherrywood stem, the Turk.
position of symbolic significance in} Perhaps the most famous of these
connection with the superstitious|is thePersian “Kalyun” or hookah
rites and usages of the race.” The| water tobacco pipe, which consists
calumet or peace pipe was highly | of three pieces—the “head” or bowl,
venerated and was placed in the cus-|the water bottle or base, and the
tody of a high official. “snake” or long flexible tube and

It may be noted here that while| mouthpiece. The tobacco, after being
the most ancient American pipes| steeped in water, is placed in the
had no stems, the stem only of the| “head” and lighted with live charmedicine pipe was the object of ven-|coal. The smoke is passed into the
eration. Red pipestone was the fa-| water, where it is cooled and washed
vorite material used by the Indians | and then drawn through the “snake”
in making pipe bowls, while the|to the smoker.
stems might have been of cherry or} The water bottle are often carved
some other straight-grained, fairly |and ornamented cocoanut shells, and
hard wood. this instrument is then known as a

In Europe, tobacco smoking was/|nargila” (nargil-coco-nut). Silver,
unknown before the discovery of |gold and damascened steel are often
America. However, iron, bronze|used as decoration.
and clay pipes have been found in The “Churchwarden” pipe, a clay
Europe, particularly in Roman re-| pipe nearly two feet long, has long
mains. It has been suggested that | characterized the elderly officials of
these were used in smoking incense, English churches, and the retired
Gish dad eeieeg soleil ats Siu ee ee
small clay pipes have been found, sired nie me : ae a Jee
some of which have been uuleriaten known A yea sage > rey
with Roman remains. implement of the dont oo

yman in

Many of these small pipes have| America is the corncob, which has
broad, flat heels in, place of the | now achieved almost universal popuspur or modern clay pipes. On these | larity.
flat heels the maker's initials were Materials for pipe-making come
eae cass het eat t. Pe Ser ee places. Early centuries
+ : » LAlT} clay pipe manufacture were lopipes and often supernatural agen-| cated in Staffordshire and Wiltshire

 

 

cies were called into account fo their | in England, where the clay was parexistence. | ticularly suited to pipe - making.
“There is no reason to believe| Grounds from such places as South

that the tobacco pipe in Europe is| Africa supply the material for the
older than the sixteenth century. | luxury pipes”—the meerschaum.
Introduction of the tobacco pipe is |
generally acribed to Ralph
first Governor of Virginia,
1586 brought an Indian pipe to
Walter Raleigh and taught
courtier how to use the implement.
The pipe-makers of London became
an incorporated body in 1619, and
from England to the other nations
of Europe learned the art of making clay pipes.”

The habit of smoking spread rapidly, and among certain people the |
tobacco pipe assumed certain characteristics. In modern times it

Most popular of pipe materials is
| the briar, which is used especially
in| in the manufacture of pipe bowls.
Sit | Briar is .obtained from the roots of
that |the heath, Erica arborea (brugére).
The best broar comes from the hills
| of Maremma (North-west coast. of
Italy), whence it is sent to Leghorn
for shipment. At the present time
| this source is closed and efforts are
| being made to find a suitable knarled
root In America to replace the biar.

The tobacco pipe is well known in
| literature, not so much as a subject

 

Lane,
who

lhng | po 3 7
' has | for diseussion but as a means of
become a medium of conveying| drawing out the best in men, much
. *,¢ 3
social, political and personal allu-|as good wine is said to do. Thack
| ack
sions, in many cases with notable artistic skill and humour.” It also!
became the object of inventive ingenuity and pipes were made from
hard wood, horn, bone, ivory, stone,
precious and other metals, amber,
glass, porcelain and above all clay.
At the present time a well-known
tobacco firm illustrates its magazine
advertisements with pictures of
many and varied pipes from its
large collection.

Certain pipes have come to be associated with certain people, e, g.,
“the elongated painted porcelain
bowl and pendulous stem at\once recall the German peasant”; the small
metallic bowl and cane stem—the

eray, for instance, was a great pipe
smoker. Perhaps the most inveterate pipe-smokers in the literary
world were Carlyle and Tennyson.
Tennyson liked few things better
than “talking with a few intimates
amid clouds of tobacco smoke in a
tiny room at the top of the house.”

One of the most appealing pictures in the’world of literary men,
at least to pipe smokers, is that of
Carlyle and Tennyson, sitting in-a
small room, dimly lighted, both puffing furiously on their pipes and in
the middle of long, companionable
silences, hurling profound sentences
through the clouds which surround
(Continued on page three)

4%

 
   
     
   
  
 
 

 

    
  

Be Be A Buttes In College

In these days of peril, when death and destruction roam the land,
ge the great empires, the freedom-loving democracies that have
for liberty are being washed down to the sea of oblivion like a

ng steam-roller, we of the universities have a special problem.
are we to do our part? For the help of us all is needed. We must

® we are privileged characters, we must prepare ourselves for the
t the government obviously intends us to play in the great post-war
Id. To do this, we must equip ourselves mentally. To equip ourselves
n tally we must concentrate on our course in the University, but we
must also equip ourselves elsewhere. We must realize that cultural values
be increasingly important to the leaders of tomorrow, especially to
En, Some can join Music Clubs, but we are not all musical, are
Ee ve? ‘No, we are not. Therefore I would like to suggest the formation
of a Chess Club, meeting once a week, at different member’s homes.
Chess sets should be readily obtainable, although those of the Stravikan
are the rather rare. After an evening of Chess Problems, Chess
for Beginners, Advanced Chess, Communal Chess, and Getitoffayour Chess,

e meeting could conclude with a “social”,

There are many embryonic members lying unawakened around the
campus no doubt, who would be glad to join this club, if they knew a few

_ of the essentials of this exciting cultural influence. For that reason we
_ give herewith a quick digest of the grand old game.

-.. The word ‘‘chess” comes from the Middle Latin verb “canxtascio”

meaning “to call down maledictions lustily”. After passing through

French (0. and M.) it came into Englo-Saxon, and English as “cloestaiae”™

* meaning “now to rejoice in a moody sort of way”.

| At present the game is played with numerous pieces known as ‘“‘men”
because there is no resemblance. These include the King, the most valu
able man on the board, since he can be checked until needed, the Queen,
whose numerous curves in silhouette give a vaguely “Queenie Queen of
_ them all” expression, the Bishops, known as “Bish”, the Knights, so called

_beeause they have horse’s heads, (Latin pun on “eques-equitibus,” translated: knight-mares), the Rooks, known as Castles to one branch of the
family (life-long friends have been known to give up speaking to each
other on this point of terminology), and the Pawns. There are a lot of
pawns, and it is a favorite trick of some of the best players to wave the
hand over the board as if chasing flies, while the opponent is deliberating

_ and depositing an extra pawn or two in strategic positions. 9 chances
_“® out of 10 the other player never notices. If he does you can always blush
__-—prettily and kick him in the teeth.

Methods of Play: No two authorities have ever agreed on this important subject, and consequently there are numerous books (chiefly in
Arabic or Tibetan) on the correct thing to do and when. The neophyte
is warned to Shun these Books. Your opponent, having read a different

will never make the correct reply to your gambut (the vocabulary
of the science can be found in arly good library of over 2,000,037 volumes)
and consequently will not allow you to spring the clever trap you memfF ._—sorized from page 96; you can probably do better by yourself, anyway.
: K _ Moreover, all Chess instruction books are written in code, and good cribs
' are unobtainable. E-6 QRP is fairly evenly deciphered as the pawn in
bd front of the Castle (or Rook) beside the "Queen, on the side the King
| isn’t on. This applies whetner the Rook (or Castle) is in position or not,
4 and in fact, even when the pawn isn’t there. Such a sentence, however,
% as KBP3 to QR7, KKn to QBP18, Cast., might well be understood to
_ confuse the beginner slightly. :

You are now ready to play. Select an opponent, preferably a tabletennis champion, so you can sneer “all brawn, no brain” at him from time
to time, and set out the pieces on the board in the order shown on chart 4,
pg 15. Now reverse the positions of the King and Queen, because he

was right after all. Make a move, any move. The power of the pieces

is extremely flexible, although only the Knight can be two places at the
_ Same time, so by pointing at the window and saying “Torpedo” with a
\ convineing look, the opponent can be distracted while you shove a piece,

any piece, somewhere. To impress him, you may castle once in awhile.
'f

 
 

  

  

  

 
 

rin Pers.

  

 
 

 
 

  

 

_ This is done by reversing the position of the King and Rook very quickly,
then putting them back almost where they were, but not quite. This is
guaranteed to awe the other player, and the fact that he points out coldly.
he already has a pawn in the place you put your King, and therefore
you’d better get the H—out of there pretty fast may be = down tc
: io jealousy and ignored.
sf it ae Long pauses between roves are the accepted order of things, and
* although there are reports of radicals finishing a game in three hours, no
_ player really priding himself on his technique would finish in less than
seven. These pauses may be used for reference to a crib held below the
Vi Tea and cup-cakes may be served at pre-determined intervals, although beer and skittles is the traditional accompaniment, Look extremely
bored while you wait for your opponent to move. This is good strategy,
i although the fact that he says “go on, don’t you know its your turn?”
somewhat dulls its edge. The object of the game is to manouevre the
_ other player’s King in a position he can’t move it without you taking it.
iN i, Ue one of course ever takes a King, but all chess-players keep up the
harmless fancy it could be done.
be When this result is achieved, cry “Mate” in a loud voice. This is
_, Reither dangerous nor slightly off-color, since chess players are sexless.
if it really is Check-mate, you have won the game, and may revel in
the consequent glory. If it is not, play on. If your opponent cries Check
i or Mate, and the best policy is to stand suddenly up, muttering some5 _ thing about an engagement with the dentist and tip over the board, prefe~ ably into his lap. This is guaranteed to finish any game, and probably to
k _make yo your opponent finish you.
eT It should be noted that while it is possible to Castle with a Rook,
it ta tmpoeaibte to Rook with a castle. Govern yourself accordingly.

ee
ae
—
i

  

ae
ca

  

  

  

. that Gene Tunney, former
heavyweight boxing champion of the

 

   
     
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 

| to. the brary; one of which is on
,| display. Tunney was regarded as
Jone of the nicest brain-in-his-feet
boxers the ring ever had since Jim
(“Gentleman Jim”) Corbett. He also
had a reputation for being a scholar.

. . . that the Mathematics teaching team of Prof. and Mrs. C.
Walmsley is perhaps most unique in
Canada. Mrs. Walmsley filled a
large gap in 1 the dep:
by the departure of

es in his ote "Three
s of the speech are typed out,
of them used for The Herald

he Chronicle. These addresses |

 

      
 

world (if not Jack Dempsey) has},

artment oe |

  

Preparations for the Banquet are
well underway and it promises to be
the big day in the Engineers’ calendar
ir

/Congratulations to the girls of Pi
Beta Phi for a pretty good show last
week. But, although the cast was
entirely girls, all the back stage
crew were Engineers, which only
gave the show...

The dance afterawrds was not so
well attended as it might have been,
due to the Pine Hill dance. Several
Engineers were seen alone, bemoaning the loss of their partners to the
Hill-billies.


Andy went over to Lunenburg over
the week-end. Was it to officially
open the fishing season or merely to
assure the O.A.0 of his fidelity?

T

Graham will have to take it easy
for the next few weeks. We hear
Norrie is in for a hard time at the
hands of the Dentist. Maybe he
could get in to hold her hand. ,

T

'Why is Bruce Bauld wearing his
hat brim turned up, lately? We
were told it’s because Sue said it
was cute, but you know there’s
rumour.

T .

Kenny Wilson has been noticed
around the Hall freqnently. Better
beware, Kenny, Sadie Hawkins Day
is almost here and even an experienced Junior has been robbed already.

T

Mike Waterfield is trotting out the
Judge’s daughter. Well, I suppose
it would be niece to be married by
Poppa.

T

If the Wartime Bureau of Technical Personnel bases its efficiency
on the documents it passes out, the
war effort must be well organized.
We hear that a permit will soon be
required before a Science student
can shovel snow. There is also some

ambiguity on who or what consti
tutes a Science student which even

the local office cannot clarify.

How about some new records for
the Juke Box? Some of the betterknown pieces of Tchaikowsky, Lizst
or Strauss would provide a relief
from the blaring tones of “Strip
Polka”.

T |

The Engineer challenge has been
accepted by the Freshmen and the
teams will meet as soon as an ice
surface is available. There are two
trophies in the Drafting Room—
we intend to make it three.

T

The Basketball team is holding its
own by winning last week’s game
by a score of 43—17. Keep it up,
boys.


The big event of this week is the
Junior Prom, which no doubt will be
a success, since the chairman is
none other than Glen Hubley, another Engineer—you just can’t get
away from them.

T

The “Juke” is open again and the
music seems to be better than ever.
“Sparky” has been there niore than
once in the past week and having a
whale of a time.

ON PIPES—
Continued from page 2

ed them. One of the most apt quips
in literature has to do with Tennyson and his smoking. When Tennyson chanced to say in Sir William
Harcourt’s hearing, that his pipe
after breakfast was the most enjoyable of the day, Sir William softly
murmured the Tennysonian line:

“The earliest pipe of half-awaken
ed birds.”

Some historians say that the substituted “bards” for “birds”, and the
reception accorded by the poet to the
parody, was not as cordial as its excelllence deserved.”

Howbeit, the seasons wili come
and go, and in spite of the inventive
genius of erring man, he will, it is
to be feared, continue to warm his
nose in winter and grind his mind’s
grist in all weathers with the aid of
a reeking pipe. “Ta We,

 

TLaSOEOOPS_OOIOOSO

THE NATIONAL FISH CoO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
NOVA SCOTIA

HALIFAX

 

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

    
  

Nova Scotia

   

HALIFAX

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

DOCTOR GILLESPIE’S NEW
ASSISTANT

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

SECRETS OF THE UNDERWORLD

DOWN TEXAS WAY

GARRICK
Beda cae
Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

MY HEART ‘BELONGS TO
DADDY

   
       
     
     
   
   
    

Wednesday, Thursday & Friday
ORDERS FROM TOKIO
THE HIDDEN MENACE

with
OTTO KRUGER

OXFORD

Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

“CROSSROADS”
Hedy Lemarr - Wm. Powell

“ARMY SURGEON”

    
    
   
  
   
 

 

Thursday, Friday and a?
“TALES OF MANHATE

 

     
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 

   
 
  
  
    
  
 

 

CAPITOL

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“The
Black Swan”

with
TYRONE POWER
Beautiful Techicolour

*
Monday - Tuesday - Wed.

Red : Skeleton
Whistling in Dixie

 

 

CASINO
*

STARTING SATURDAY
FOR ONE WEEK

“PITTSBURG”

a

OS RT BE BS
Starring Re
Ronald Scott

Marlene Dietrich

. John Wayne

cy ory
Kies ~ %
A ares =! 4 z a”

one eee se

satis ea
irs

Noted in the Queen’s Journal is
the tuberculosis survey soon to be
carried cut at Queen’s University.
Making use of the mobile X-ray unit
owned by the Department of Health
of the province, all members of the
student body and staff will be tested. Hope has been expressed by
those in authority that this test become an annual practise, and the
importance of complete co-operation
has been stressed.

Fy 7

he mae p

aes
LIPPINGS

by Laurie Allison

Look out,
moron story:

Did you hear the one about the
little morom who was caught looking
through the keyhole of a glass door?

Yat iy

Mary had a little cow, —

And oh, how it did stutter,

In place of every quart of milk,

It gave a pound of butter.

—The Sheaf.

here comes another

Ve ee ®

Two trains were steaming along
at each other and on the same
track. But a Swede was driving one
and the company drunk the other, so
of course they didn’t crash. Everyone knows that Norse is Norse and
Souse is Souse and never the twain
shall meet.

—The Sheaf.
TOO OM

The ship of state for an even keel
Needs tons and tons of corset steel.

The die is east, the fates have
written,

That ladies now must bulge for
Britain.

—The Gateway.

Wie iM
Again from the Gateway:
“That’s a hot number”, said the
steer, as the glowing branding iron

" aL
re +

 

an ad
———— —————————————— >

 

pile!’ Oe
ho
@ , ig Te ee ;

: _— *) Bes

Page Three

“Of course, I must ask you iy a
deposit”, said the landlady.
“Certainly”, replied the art student, handing over the required sum.
“Thank you very much,” she said.
“Now shall we trust one another,
or do you want a receipt?”
—The Sheaf.
vo aw oe
“Run around a little, mother’,
said the little calf, “I want a milkshake.”—-The Gateway.
Vir

 

PI PHI—

Continued from page 1
her entourage of female espionage.
Ruth James displayed unsuspected
talent to an appreciative audience as
the Be-bustled “X”, hilariously prancing to the tune of a Mid-European
(Old style) accent. Next came
MSQ4-Katinka (Susan Morse) who
was later to inspire the members of
the C.O.T.C. with a graceful Cossack walk that would have made
Major Hogan’s buttons shine.

Last of the terrible three was OP
1342 (Mary Boswell), languidly
floating in with borrowed evening
clothes and accent to match anything but. To complete the Debacle
we find Blank (Frances Clancy)
generously leaving a time bomb of
which only poor Hannah (locked in
a closet) and the audience (in a
worse condition) knew.

After the explosion Mary Boswell
brought down the house revealing
through the shreds a very shapely
shoulder.

As for the question Hoodunnit?
Well, they were all on the same side.
The real enemy, Blank, was apprehended by Miss Price’s men. (Presumably Bunny Levitz, Bill Hagen
et al whom this correspondent saw
for the first time in their new Glee
Club work-crew uniforms.)

Congratulations to Pi Beta Phi,
the direction and acting, particularly
that of Miss Johnson, seems to put
this play well in line for the Connolly Shield.

After the play a small, cozy crowd
danced till 12 to the music of Don

was pressed against her tender flank. Lowe and his popular orchestra.

 

That Gslba Semithing!

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
    
 
  
    
 

  
  

The best

ts always

ms

TRADE MARK

‘Delicious, erties

| x : Xt ia Sy ae } $ :

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA,
HALIFAX

S — :
a er .
% i

the better buy!

-.. You can

spot it every time

At the ice carnivals you can see

plenty of “know how” in skating.

There’s another star at its best on
ice, too . . . Coca-Cola.

“Know-how,” a finished art in the
making . . . these help to give ice
cold, Coca-Cola

oe that

extra
s LT miething,

a ‘So do choicest
“ ingredients and
a maven all its own. You
>, enjoy its wel
~ come refreshment that goes
quickly into energy. Allthese factors
lead people to
select Coca-Cola
as their favourite soft drink.

 

  

To get the real thing call for icecold Coca-Cola.

    

P4 The energy-giving refreshment §
of ice-cold Coca-Cola is so wel- J

LIMITED
635

 

 

DALHOUSIANS ...
for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

490 BARRINGTON STREET

LORD NELSON HOTEL }

  

  
  
       
 
  
        
           
       
        
     
      
         
      
       
      
     
     
      
           
          
        
       
      
         
        
        
      
     
      
       
      
       
       
 
   
 

     
    
   
    
   
  
  
     
   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
      
  
  
   
      
        
       
    
      
       
     
        
 
   
        
     
      
 
 

  
   

     
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
  

  
 
     

aie e Tigers dropped another
ao. Lo in the City Senior Basketball
Lea ; a aa the college boys were

dre PP. ad by a 39-27 decision in favor
of Y¥.M.C.A. in a game Saturday
night. Let by Dunbrack, Ralston
ie a Ah sen Tigers put up one of
if best fights in several weeks of
ye play and elosely contested the enBi per z First Half
of a a Jim Callaghan, who markfem ea me eight points in the first halt,
b Be th “Y” quintette at the middle mark
ee i

led by 13-8, as the game developed
Be into a close checking affair. Van
_ Dyke looped the hoop this frame for
fe rae: pone points to lead the cats.
was Second Half
he) Dal made a better showing in the
Beer pee half, the collegians being led
_ by Ralston, Dunbrack and Wilson.
i ‘Between them eighteen points were
scored. Callaghan again continued
to lead the “Y” drive in this half,
counting 17 points for the evening,
leading in the scores. Wall, 6 foot
6 guard came up from guard several
times to counter.
_ Limeaps:
 -Y.M.C.A.—Callaghan 17, Chisholm
2, Zatzman, Creighton 4, Doubleday
2, Wall 5, Croucher 3, Musgrave 5,
Mitchell 2.
Dal—Ralston 6, Van Dyke 4,
D'Arcy, Oakley, Wilson 9, Dunbrack
- 7, Brown 1, White.

i

be

En ih

 

CUBS LOSE
Dalhousie Cubs may not have won
a start to date, but the intermediate
‘boys mever got off the floor without
_ trying their best, and Saturday’s
night’s game at the “Y” was no exception, Beaten 49—28 by Navy,
the junior Bengals showed a good
fighting advantage all the way.
Mitchell again led the collegiate
effort with 12 points, placing his
right behind Mills with his thirteen
pointe leading Navymen. Zatzman,
with eight, came second for the
Cubs. Dal juniors were short-handed im the contest.
on’ Lineups:
_~——--s Nawy—Mills 13, Lubin 4, Patterme son 2, Goodman 6, Strong 5, Best
10, Baldwin 9.
 Pal—Fraser 4, Mitchell 12, Zatzman 8, Clark 4, Hubley.
Referee: McKimmie.

On the Schedule

Dal Tigers meet King’s at eight
in the gym Saturday night preceded
by the Cubs game with “Y” at
seven. The boys are putting their
share into Dal’s sporting life, so it
should be everybody out. After all,
the best tunes of all come to Carnegie Hall Friday night now.

OT kee Ben

 

| oo 1c oss, filard-fighting Coliegians
ty ty Ralston, Wilson, Dunbrack

 

 

Feminine Sport _

by Eileen Phinney

   

Little has been said about Girls’
Sports at Dal, but believe it or not,
they do exist. There have been
fairly good turn-outs for basketball
on Thursday nights and the girls
have enthusiastically formed teams,
and with the invaluable assistance
of Mrs. Barrett.

The teams will be picked within
the next two weeks, so all girls interested are asked to turn out on
Thursdays at 5.30 or on Saturdays
at 1 o’clock. Suppers are served on
Thursday after the game.

Badminton is also another favorite
sport among our fairer sex. An
inter-club tournament was held recently, and with a goodly number
present the results were excellent.
Archery classes have started, and
although they were at first restricted to the seniors, and since said
seniors have not taken advantage of
the opportunity offered them any
freshette anxious to learn how to
use a bow and arrow in case the time
presents itself, are very welcome,
and should see Mr. Barrett immediately.

It is time the girls at Dal took
advantage of the excellent opportunity offered at the gym for participation in sports of all kinds, and
so girls, watch for the notices, and
turn out to support your teams, and
who knows ?—win your“D”.

Ralston’s Classes
Proving Popular
With Dal Students

Coach Burnie Ralston, and Dal’s
physical instructor told a Gazette
editor yesterday that his classes
were meeting with success, and
about 75 have enrolled in them,
learning everything from beginners’
swimming to Ju-Jitsu and close
combat,

The movement towards the classes
was made by Ralston shortly after
the change in O. T. C. schedule
brought all physically fits into uniform, regardless of age.

The classes being given now include tumbling and gymnastics,
fencing, Ju-Jitsu and Close Combat,
and Beginners’ Swimming and Life
Saving at the “Y” Wednesday
nights.

It is expected to shortly add several other courses to this imposing
curricula, including wrestling and
social dancing.

 

A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.
Phone L. 2357

MILK 
CREAM —- BLEND - BUTTERMILK

YOUR SUIT COATS AND DRESSES

Look Newer
Last Longer

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,
to keep them feeling soft and fresh, to maintain

ly, slylish lines. A good wartime practice
uy fewer clothes—send whatsyou have to

Chie often.

WWW CLEANERS LAUNDERERS DYERS STORAGE

 

mA" ,
, Rete e rd
opt
ar: mn
eres

rent

Pir eh Dt

1 ij
7 hae ere

Ty (401 Seem st
i

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

gals By 39-27 Score

 

-|Gals Manage Paper,

Mathematics Of War

Dances, "Next Week Savings Stamps .. .

Following a custom of several
years, next week will be Co-Ed
Week. The Gazette will be taken
over by a capable staff of girls under the guidance of Editress-in-Chief
Kay Finnimore. Whereas it has
often been regarded by the superior
males as something in the vein of
humour, the allagirl issue of the
Gazette this year ‘will be, Editress
Finnimore solemnly assures us,
“Definitely not a joke”. Watch out,
then, for what promises to be one of
the year’s outstanding issues.

One other noteworthy feature of
Co-Ed week will be eagerly anticipated Sadie Hawkins Day Ball. Authentically capturing the spirit of the
time-honoured Dogpatch frolic, the
girls will call for the males, present
them with vegetable corsages (this
year, perahps, the gesture will be
mitted), and, over their escorts dead
bodies, take them home.

ESSENTIALS—
Continued from page 1
“Theirs not to reason why, theirs

but to do and die” has passed into
history. Airmen of today are resourceful, and must rely on their
own initiative to meet each situation
as it comes.

As a result the average airman is
critical and questioning. He obeys
orders, but he asks the reason behind
every'command. If the answer is
not apparent, he forms his own opinions. Often the conclusions he arrives at are wrong because he has
not the facts to form a correct
opinion, but the important point is
that he uses his head.

The second quality, that of selfconfidence, or the sense of dignity,
is a feeling that he is doing something worthwhile. It is not a boastful spirit, for the airman does not
brag about himself. A lot of Canada’s airmen came from make-shift
jobs, jobs that did not give them the
satisfaction of feeling that they had
a place in the world, that they were
really vital.

They knew that there were thousands to take their pleaces if they
quit or got fired from these jobs,
and they had the feeling that nobody
really cared whether they existed or
not. In the Airforce, their sense of
dignity has been restored, they feel
that they are doing an important
job. It is not something they brag
about, for the braggart is penalized
by his comrades, but it is an inner
feeling of quiet confidence.

Humour is one of the qualities
that makes the airman able to bear
the ordeals and hazards to which he
is subjected. It enables him make
light of the most desperate situations
and gives him a vast source of confidence. A _ flying-boat returning
from patrol ran out of gas far from
its base, and its radio flashed the
following message: “Low on gas,
send coupons”.

The courage of our airmen is not
the reckless bravado of screen thrillers. They all admit that they are
scared in battle, but their courage
consists of letting nothing interfere
with the efficiency of the fighting
team. - They are brave because danger is part of the job, and they let
nothing interfere with the carrying
out of that job thoroughly and efficiently.

« Comradeship is one of the finest

qualities of the airman. The old
spirit of competition, rivalry and
envy that used to be glorified in our

Say

Scalia Saenger a lara ee ae
foes a nr a ae ee a ee eet gl ahaa age a all
Sp ae - ‘vow ary
icons he rates

The month of rs might be
an unfortunate month to choose for
the important campaign of selling
stamps going on now in the Dominion. First, many Canadians have
the unfortunate knack of disregarding all such campaigns till the very
last day of the campaign faces them,
and February is a short month.
You have to remember its 28 days or
the Dominion Government is out of
luck.

The objective is a million dollars.
With a population of ten millions
(assuming Canada has a gigantic
army overseas) that amounts to .10
to be given by everybody. Doesn’t
seem too big, at one dispassionate
glance. It means roughly a saving
of one-third of a cent each day for
the month. Come to think of it, the
thin dime won’t even buy a stamp.
Well, what’s to prevent the Dal student from increasing his donations.
And keeping it up, for that is the
main purpose. These little grains
of investments are the cement for a
happy future home—Canada.

_

 

pre-war society has gien way to a
spirit of cooperation and mutual aid.
Our fighters do not work as individuals, but as a team. There is no
jealousy between the individual

members of air-crew, nor between
air-crew and ground-crew, for they
all know that they depend on each
other for success. No one asks for
credit for himself, the team is the
important unit.

Through this spirit, the difference
of rank becomes insignificant, officers and men are all part of the
same brotherhood born of a common
task. It is this feeling of comradeship that Squadron Leader Vlastos
hoped would provide the foundation
for a new society, a society in which
the brotherhood of man would become a reality.

  
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
   
     

colored
pencil
problems

SHARPENS

PERFECTLY
The flexible
leads end all
cracking and
@ crumbling in the
#: sharpener. No
waste lead from
broken points in
daily use.

HOLDS ITS POINT

By actual test one Verithin
point makes over 4,000 brilliant
check marks.

PROTECTS YOUR RECORDS

Notations made with its insoluble lead will not smear under
moist hands nor run from accidental wetting. Buy Verithin,
24 colors to choose from—

3

  

10c each—tess in quantities

MADE IN GANADA BY
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY

\S6E/ Chin Stat

LEH

: meted ose 4

Schwark

PT MY wth

$-1

 

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may
be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in
Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking

Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.
Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax *~ 7941

 
 
   
 

One Moment Please

Representatives are now taking orders for the 1948 PHAROS, so
please cooperate and give your
name, together with two dollars and
fifty cents, to your faculty representative. At Studley you may order
from Anne Mackley, Helen MacKay,
Cyril King, or Sparky MacLean.
Med students order from Kaye Murray or Sid Wright, while Dents or
February 12, 1943 °

der from Andy Anderson and Pharmacists from Walter Terris, and
Law students from Lorne MacDougal.

Ted King is in charge of the sales
so if you don’t know any of the
above named, phone Ted at Pine
Hill and a representative will call
you. The increase of fifty cents in
cost of the year book is due to wartime restrictioned on advertising
which cut down year book revenue
by twenty-five per cent.

 

 

“IT DOES TASTE GOOD IN A PIPE!”

 

Join the Picobac Fraternity. It means
pleasant hours in every day—hours of mild,
cool sweet converse with a pipe—that com
panion which enlivens company and en
riches solitude.

Picobac

 

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

 

 

 

Nei

en tiedieaae

IAA £3 A
oa a
“ a eee ae +
i F

  
 
   

Covered with
Neilson’s smooth
French-style Chocolate

AOR oe

 

STUDENTS!

NORMAN’S CAFE

HOLLIS STREET

B-9575

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. Cunard & Co., Ltd.

HARD COAL
COKE

SOFT COAL
FUEL OIL

*

Halifax, N. S.

Dartmouth, N. 8S.

insane

 
