 
 

|
{

+

¥

|

4

 

 

Whither The

Universities ?
AN EDITORIAL

Day by day the clamor against
university students increases. Hardly a week passes without a reference
to the “havens of refug: i either in
the press or on plat orm. One
would almost be led to judge from
these outbursts of literaty indignation that the colleges of Canada were
teeming with draft ‘dodgers, from |
Jehovah Witnesses right down +o |
outright fifth-columnists. .

Universities and university students aré td a large extent respon- |
sible for the barrage of criticism |
that is being levelled at them. ‘To’!
a person who has been in contact
with European universities before
the time of Hitler, the apparent
lethargy of the Canadian student towards his whole politieal and social |
environment is shocking. Our European colleagues would look with
amazement’ at our ‘mental attitude
which hardly can embrace anything
more profound than dances and An
occasional football game. Certainly
we are guilty of the charge that our’
chief aim in life i$ to devise Ways |
and means of keeping from ge tting’|
bored.
To this extent we stand condenin- .
ed, and it is necessary ‘for us t6 fave |
it. This is not atime for self-jus- |
tification, this is ‘a ‘time’ for self?!

- eriticism. We are forced to admit to 1"

eae

ep ves Pe
a J ip ? r
} 4 - Wy Me 7 on
4 ayy
. fd

  

 

Air Accidentee

 

Let

—-K ipl ness,

ELS) BK ie

Section Officer Rid: Goodman w:
killed Puesday avinitt iw
hobme: Adta..cavben oh | brabsls

LS
ayy. ‘S
Ie

‘ourselves that we have ‘failed, and wm bwniono rahe Jwas dying: ores

_ eases have died defending their uni
+

+

5

~y we are’ ‘to win the peace, we must

My
|

ha

   

es (Be need, TC the

failed miserably, in “Yaking’ up the
torch that has been throwh ‘to us
by European ‘students who in many

-versities and librariés’ against the
exterminator of all learning. ‘It’ is'
only with shame to ourselves that we
can recall those Czech ‘students who’
so valiantly took up a ‘hopeléss
struggle to avenge a ‘¢omrade murdered by the Nazi conquéror.

The fact is that universities have
a tremendously important part to
play in a democracy, but it is equally
true that we have not lived up to
that responsibility. We should be
in the forefront of the ‘struggle’
against injustice and tyranny, whether we are students inthe services,
or whether we are in our classrooms.
In fact the only way Wwe could justify our presence in the ¢lassroonis at
this moment would be that we were
carrying on a fight for truth and
freedom.

Measured in these terms, it would
seem that there is some justification
for the attacks against Canadian
universities, That is true, but unfortunately the attacks are all negative. The critics point, out the
wea esses in our position, but they
offer no solution to the problem. If

bring our civilization through the
war, and this should be the main
function of a university. China has
réalized this clearly, and that is the
origin of the stories we hear about
s in mountain caves far, behind
the front lines.
“The government should take the
eee and set up a comprehensive
ui onal system inside the armed
Sirke! and it should encourage attendance at classes ging from
fans ee to graduate. A service
this is by Canadian Legion Pes eto organization cannot be excel a to be eas.
to finance a p

for

 

 
    
    
   
      
     
  
  

lst of February. An invitation to

    
 
  
  

| vided iad receive: their uniforms in
time.

Her death is believed:id believed the
first for a méniber of the R.C.A.F.,
W.D.,;in avplane|adcident,' A for
‘mer Dalhousie graduate, ‘Miss Good
man tecéived her Bachelor of Arts
in) 4941.

A popular co-ed in her years at
Dalhousie; the late ‘Miss Goodman
had entered the R'!C.A-F. ‘shortly after graduation. “Among her accomplishments were musical ability
(violin), a deep interest in the
Brownie-Guide and Ranger _ girl
movements, | and she was of out
‘standing’ ability in women’s sports.

Her promotion in the Air Force
was. rapid. After a few weeks she

| became a Sergeant Instructor, and

was Section Officer at the time of
her death.

The sympathy of the student body
will go’ out-to the family, and especially her sister} Miss’ Anita,
freshette at the University, and a
member of the Gazette staff.

 

All Out Maneuvres By
0.T.C.Tomorrow; Plans

For Ball Progressing

“After much training in map readand and field craft, the O.T.C. will
carry out practical exercises Saturday, weather permitting, the first of
a series of such exercises,” announced the Chief Instructor, Major
R. V. Hogan, yesterday noon. The
maneuyre will comprise a majority
of the companies, and will take various squads to all parts of the city.
Cadets will have to. rely on mapreading ability to gain their objec| tives.

Plans are also underway for a
SDAP TAH? f adureh parade either the 14th or

the U.A:T.C. has been given, pro
Of the forthcoming 0.T..C. Ball,
Gazette was pstetdhe, Pander Bi
can “rest as-|

> event of the)

arate

VEL py C tinue i on ] ge 4 7

et

   

 

;
’
j

|

 

pl ane]

 

a

ficer.”

gE

BY THE SEA”

HALIFAX, N.5S., JANUARY 29, 1943

 

=<eTtte

No. 13

 

ED CROSS TO BENEFIT BY $300

 

Glory to Dalhousie

“Uphold the shining voyagers,
Upon the vast ethereal seas
Encompass them their valiant. wings,
In all their brave adventurings.
Hear then, Oh J] a nation’s prayer,
For them Thy children of the air.”’
K. MUNRO.

Someone has said that it is the depth of one’s life that
counted, and not the breadths» Certainly the too short twenty
three years of §8./L. Rose Goodman could not be a criterion of

her worth, or a measure of the rich destiny which awaits her.

Dalhousie’s students have gone, forth, to, the battle of their
country, and Miss Rose Goodman, New Glasgow, was no exception.
eraduation, she entered her duties with the air force and gained
rapid promotion.

The glory that was this young girl, her good nature, inteliigencé, beauty, athletic sense have -been.stilled,..It. was..a
heroic, death.’ ‘This, college will carry with it her memory; the
gay studeht who was.so. friendly with her classmates, the girl
who gaye Dalhousie the richness of youth in sincere scholarship.

—THE EDITOR.

Science Student Regulations | 550

 

 
 

Position p Cleared Re | Heads U.A.T.C.

‘Technical Commissions

The University Science Students’
Regulations, 1942, established by
Order in Council, state that “before
@ person is permitted to commence
or gontinue work asa gcienge student he shall make a declaration in
a form prescribed by the Minister
indicating whether he wishes to volunteer for service in the armed
forces of Canada as a technical of
Declaration forms may be obtained at the Office of the Registrar and
all seience students are required to
complete these at..the earliest possible date so that they may be forwarded to the Minister.

ee the purposes of this regulation, “science student” means a male
person who has registered at a university as a full-time student during
all or part of the academic year for
a course the successful completion of
which, in the opinion of the Minister, will qualify the person as a
technical person.)

 

—R-C.A.F.

Photo,

Flying Officer R. H. Comeau,
above, is Administrative Officer for
the U.A.T.C. at Dalhousie.
Cpe Pee PE a former student of Acadia Univerprominent in R.C.A.F. teaching, his
office has been established on the |

One Moment Please

All pre-medical and pre-dental
students who intend to enter first
year Medicine or Dentistry in Sept.
1943, are requested to make formal
application at the Registrar’s Office
as soon as possible.

Applications for permission to
undertake distinction work should
be made at the Registrar’s Office by
January 30, tomorrow.

There will be a meeting of the
Senior Class Tuesday, noon in Room
Three.

up and talk them over with him.

s* *

On behalf of the students of Dalhousie University, the staff of the
Dalhousie Gazette extends a sincere
welcome to F.O. H. R. Comeau, Administration Officer of the new Dalhousie unit of the U.A.T.C.

Flying Officer Comeau is a former
student of Acadia University, where
he took an active interest in student
affairs. He has already made friends
with @ large number of Dalhousie
students, and we are pleased to
bring the following message from
him on behalf of the R.C.A.F.

“Formation of the University Air
Training Corps at Dalhousie adds
another link in the chain of Air
Training Corps which have been
established at universities from one
end of Canada to the other, It is
with a great deal of pride that we,

Continued on page 4

o

 

BADLY WANTED

The Dal Music Club is looking for
Hostesses or Hosts ‘who could accommodate (occasionally or regularly) the Club at their Halifax homes.
Volunteers kindly phone Harry S.
Zappler at B-8576 or B-8501 any day
after 7 p.m.

 

_ The open house scheduled for ShirHall tomorrow night will not be
SN

Life Vice-President of the Class of °41, shortly after

tear Oe

campus, next door to the Engineer | 0f the things we were fighting for.
roost in the Science building. Fledel- |important question.
ings with problems are invited to go |

DAL GRADUATE - IS KILLED Committee Chairman Blanch Wiswell

Announces Complete Success of Ball

With donated gifts ... more surprises

 

Dalhousie Student Body did it again, raising more Pit
for the Red Cross in the second social held: in two years
for the international organization. The theme of the. whole
affair could be surprise; sur prise that so much could be raised
on an informal dance; surprise that with reduced numbers and
rates at dances such a sum could be gr ossed, and especially with
regard to the lack of lunches ; Surprise particularly in the organization which resulted in the largest orchestra ever to play
in the gymnasium for a student social. (This idea belongs to
Secretary-Treasurer Murray Rankin).

But credit for an expert use of showmanship and plain
grit in the face of difficulties goes to Committee engineer
Blanchard Wiswell, who has become the “Pater familias” of all
Dal socials featuring those sons of fun, the Engineers, or under
Council sponsorship, Wiswell positively cringes under the
table of the Fifteen when a dance comes up, for like Abou ben
A., he’s leading the rest.

dances. The taxi-cab situation made

|Gymnasium eapacity had been cut

down to a small fraction of the 1200
Continued on page 4

Dinned out by the “Ayes” of wi
nominations, he then starts to work.
But last week’s Red Cross Ball had
the elements of real trouble. The|

 

Dalhous:e Institute of
Public Opinion

 

Do You Think the Recent Steel Strike Was Justified?
Although the majority of students sympathized with the strikers’

Ha és demands, they did not think them justified in calling a strike in so vita

an industry in wartime. A RoPRan ee! majority, though not an over
sity. With the person-to-person touch whelming one, consisting of 5292 of the students, expressed disapproval

of the strike. Those who thought it justified, about 37% of the students
questioned, often expressed the opinion that the rights of labour were one
Another 11% were undecided on ihis

Some students criticized the Government’s handling of the situation,
and claimed that the strike could have been avoided if the matter had

been approached correctly.

* *

Should Complete Prohibition Be Enforced
As a Wartime Measure?

ok ae

The great majority of students are opposed to complete prohibition
aS a wartime measure. Of those questioned 64% violently expressed their
disapproval of such a plan, while the other 16%, though fewer in numbers, were just as violent in their support of the suggestion. Engineering
students, usually disinterested in matters of government policy, were particularly noticeable in their opposition to the proposal.

oe a * *
How Do the New C.O.T.C. Drill Hours Suit You?

The C.0.T.C. schedule is more popular with the majority of students
than the previous one. The majority, 58%, found the new schedule more
convenient, Chief reasons advanced in favour of the new hours was that
they left more time for study on week-ends. The early evening drills was
appreciated by those who lived far from the campus, and did not return
to their homes for supper. Some who lived in Halifax disapproved of the
evening schedule because they did not have time to go home at supper
hour. Only 4% thought the former schedule as better. Another 38%
were undecided or whaffected by the change, Some | of | these, were members of the U.A. 7. C., others medically unfit, and others merely indifferent,

a | Ml ‘ Cd

 
d a al

bus] a Y u
ia Res 0 Tk

A oa ie
ar me ,
ae res

. cae a es fees
wee

lu of GAZETTE are thos of
sos holaten THE G | ere a

. ¥  «@QiGm. Print,
ay GAZETTE STAFF:
Be ; Peete Te eS eda oS 5 hokage OU McCleave
ae Webster Macdonald
..Ted Shields
»+++++-Peter Donkin
Saeed seeds e teense peseeereservesececesans Morris
fa @seeetaeveeonseaesneeeoneeger David Coldwell
CS OR Se aN . Eugene Merry
BE Berth Ee oh wiaid afieela-s cae ws 42s Donald Oland
' Eileen Phinney

Zi eeceereenseretrennssscensseseeses tic: Bowls Funt
i Be, Sigthig elakio9,3 «hace ve Ll yd Ott Spy Sone een Eileen Phinney

»portorial Pee: Boris Fant, eae Harvey, Kay Cox, James Campae oe a ee” Aneeta Goodman.

(Honcester’s Soliloquy at the Brink of the Cliff

King Lear. IV vi

Beyond yon brink of smoothness what awaits?
Beyond the brink and too, beyond the world.
A brief mad flight to doom adown the cliff
And then? Who knows the where and how and why
Of that which comes to mortals? Some in death

* Would have a lissome sleep of non-existence
A mere totality of nothingness.
That chills the soul but likes it more than pain;
The heritage of sorrow-ridden earth
Than which the unrevealing vale of death
Seems comely and attractive to mad eseape
My lingering steps. I’ve heard it told by some
That love and light, alluring lullabies
Come softly in the shades. Once lost to life
Then life, not lost, but in its glory gained
Shall everlasting fill immortal bliss.
Back foul dark! Taenarus I seem to see thee!
Away, grim Blackness! Arvernus, why clutchest thou so!
Perfidious Death—canst tell, thou Black Destroyer?
One glimpse is all we ask. But then to face
The terrors of a danger that is known
Might fright the lonely traveller of death
E’en more than that which unknown hangs above us.
Oh Sword that by a single thread suspended
Hung o’er Damocles, wilt thou not descend?
Oh Irony! Descend. Shall I descend
To leave my shattered corse on foam-strewn rock?
Blood-foam would stain the weed but one brief instant
(As man’s creation winks to nothingness
Beneath the sifting sands of eternity)
Then in the rolling wave to leap and fall
As now it wallows in my aged veins.
Yet something of a strange and mournful cheer
Comes murmuring in the raucous muffled cries
Of wheeling sea-birds—aimless in their flight
Like life and men—A purpose without aim—
To gain some point and then to gain another;
What purpose gaining either? Gaining neither
Would serve for each and each to serve for all.
And all to be as useless as an aim.
And so, what purpose ending what is naught?
Yet flee from death, ’tis but to find it sooner.
And should I flee or shrink or hesitate
Whom Fates have blessed when Tempus’ sand were high.
(Is’t now the last faint wisp will disappear)
Or shall I blind and pierced and bastard-torn
Cling shrieking here a butt of mockery
For ages unconceived to quote with scorn;

' And should I by my martyred countenance
Arouse a piteous shame, a shameful pity
In all who shuddering contemplate the horror.
No, rather death than thus to self-abase,
And cringing beg the sighs of humble folk.
It is the beggar’s lot to gain by loss,
The noble’s to risk all upon the throw
And losing all, to shrug aside the life
As useless, sans the props and decks of ease,
As Shylock’s. So must I a noble seem.
Iscarus, Lucifier, I pledge to you,
As one too near the sun, and one to power
Aspired, so I from happiness did fall.
On, on poor man, fear not the path to tread,
Thou whom the Ruthless Providence has bled!
There, there, I see—Nirvana beckoneth!
I‘seem to stumble, one more step. Ah, Death.

als aie h.e's # bole 8:5 Walume's nhs a/als'e’e

seeseeriees she) 4 eee S eee we CP

"And what are you doing, Egbert ?™
“Looking for a Sweet Cap!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“ The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

WHY DALHOUSIE?

A ¢ ¢ many students who are in our universities today have turned

d ‘over in their mind the problem whether or not our work here is

i I have often wondered just what I have accomplished since I

my career in University. It always seemed to me that when a

with less education than myself discovered that I had been at

ol exe : e for some years, he would gape at me open-mouthed as if he were
oor street urchin watching the hawker’s son drive by in a big car,
y an all-day sucker. And it never seemed that I had anything as
le as an all-day sucker to show for the long years I have spent

//

FARMERS’ MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!

d Rae owing my work from day to day, I seemed to accomplish nothing,
os me : a es Or ais It cal that if the public were imae naga d by the fact thatt I had spent three or four years at the books,

Beats » simply being broadminded.
# iors T maak if any others of my fellow students have felt this way
about their work. If you have, I shall tell you a story that really set
me up, hoping it may give you at least something to think about.

7 - When I was home at Chirstmas time I had occasion to go to a

seruitine office. Before I could get to the officer with whom I wished

bal I had to pass through the reception office, which was presided

y a sergeant. I have never seen a more efficient-looikng gentle
When I walked into the reception office there was a line-up ahead

7 r had to. take a seat and wait my turn. While I was waiting I

the option of reading brightly colored recruiting literature or watch- MacLeod a Balcom
‘men take their first step out of civilian life. The sergeant’s manner

LIMITED
ured my attention and held it. He was efficient. He sat behind a |
th an “Enquiry” card on it and from time to time buzzed in and oO
the inner office. He moved with a smooth rapidity that was almost DRUGGISTS
RS “sir”, I was sure i was the perfect man
‘ Headquarters for Students

Cedairebicmtt Eat at...
oO EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM
56% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

OO

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

THE
FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX

Phone B-7133

ly, y; ny ‘turn. at the waliteg deat came. The sergeant hike
‘smartly, “Next.” I stood in front of his desk.
_ He said, “Sit down.”
me told him what I wanted. It was quite different from the ordinary
x routine, but he didn’t hesitate a minute. He called to one of
tants to bring form so-and-so and to another to prepare certain
72 nts on the typwriter. He had everything right at his fingertips
4 eae [completely under control.
‘Phen the mood struck me again. “What the hell am I doing in college
when . men like this are really getting something done? This man can
ype. I can’t. He can order two or three men around and get forms
1 ee just as he wants them. I can’t. Se seemed to be able to handle
y situation that had come up in the last twenty or twenty-five minutes
Cag le I had been watching him. There were things that I woudn’t have
d any idea how to handle. Well then, what has my four years in college
n me?
"Unfortunately, I was unable to make the contacts I had desired that
I was instructed by the sergeant some time later to come
iibieven o’clock that evening for an hour and a half.
Fst y J thank you, sir” I said and went home.
iN cd Well, this sergeant bothered me. He was a man about my age, pos_ sibly two years older. And he had appeared to have all the qualities that
Bo) qo ri ied to acquire at college: efficiency, geniality, confidence, ability to
Ay : “meet. any situation. Over and over again the question pounded against my
Kan ea “Why do I keep going to college? Why ap I keep going to college? ”
Be Si i ‘I think I got the answer that night. ‘
muy it I went back to the recruiting office at seven o’clock and on my way
I noticed the sergeant at a desk out in the hall, compeltely absorbed

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. 8S.

IDENTIFICATION
BRACELETS

Nto a gadget, but a practical gift for civilian, or
one in the services.

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

Birks have them in gold- O

filled and sterling, and college crests may be attached.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller

American Gem Society.
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

J no Li.

TO
DALHOUSIE
O

BOOK REVIEW
“The Robe”

2 paper covered with pencil markings and a ‘pt -book that looked

ik 28 ‘math text. I nodded in respect as I passed, but he didn’t look up.

in to the “Enquiry” desk and told the corporal in charge what

rolarceting He said, “Oh, yes,’ gave me a form to sign and told me to
cone back at ten o’clock the next morning.
;. ‘sy As I went out, the sergeant noticed me and asked me how I made

my stepped over to his desk and answered his question ae
n I noticed that he was working mathematics.

ms had taken some information regarding my education that after3 and he remembered me. He told me what great advantages education
a. He said he had gone only as far as grade nine and that he felt very
” he talked with friends of his who had gone right along and
: Saleen grade ‘ten. He told me the experiences he had had in civilian
2 trying to compete with B.A.’s and high school graduates. He certainly
& ec mnvineed that formal education really was something.

sp on f

It 10u Z ht to myself that he was just another of the broad-minded

ent a his work, could ‘possibly want anything of the foolish

hat I had been juggling for the last four years.
3ut he was still praising education. He told me how he had lost
ces fo good jobs because he hadn't completed high-school. He said he

iid & Gath seoke yalisbie contd te! vas machine. And
ntend to take all this sitting down. He had decided to
told me Feo ee ka gas eer of

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education,
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematies,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Se.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
' in
Law, Medicine,. Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Fnctoqine Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.
> Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.

Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

by LLOYD DOUGLAS

Mr. Douglas is the author of
“Magnificent Obsession”, “Green
Light”, and “White Banners.” A
minister he has been writing successful and widely read novels since
1929 and he is well fitted by experience, study, skill, and meditation
for the task of writing his latest
book.

“The Robc” is the story of the
Roman soldier who tossed for
Christ’s robe at the foot of the Cross
and won. The theme for this imaginative tale is the power and effect
of Jesus’ robe on anyone who touched it, and also the story of the early
Christians.

Tribune Marcellus Gallio, a member of a wealthy Roman senatorial
family, insulted Prince Gaius and
was sent as commander to Minoa—
@ garrison town on the coast of
Palestine where insubordinate soldiers and political offenders were
sent in virtual exile. The garrison
at Minoa went to Jerusalem to aid
in keeping order during the Passover
and while there obeyed orders to
crucify the Galilean — Jesus, Marcellus is ordered home by the Emperor Tiberius, but meanwhile he has
been overcome by a sense of guilt
—feeling that he has crucified an innocent man. But when Marcellus
touches the Robe he has a sense of
forgiveness and peace. Being in
Continued on page 4

eee

WHY DALHOUSIE—

But to be congenial I said “Let me see the question.”
This was the problem; If two straight lines intersect, show that the

vertically opposite angles are equal.

Higher mathematics! I think it

was the second theorem in my grade nine geometry book. I showed him
how to do that one in a minute or so. We were friends. Then he showed

me where he had done some others, So

and triangles and used the custo
problems he couldn’t understand wh

Ses ie NAY Rear
Dalhousie.”

me of them dealt with both angles

mary signs for these figures. In those

cought ‘myself whistling “Glory, Glory to *.

 
   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

E FEATURE PAGE

   

 

»

 

   

DAL DAZE

a _“Peach-Ur-self”—be a self made man with our short
course to Culture.. In numerous easy lessons.

Most necessary to any Self-Made Man in today’s complex world of
shifting sensibilities, of gloom and doubt, is a knowledge of the invaluable
iD theoretics of Economics. Dalhousie is particularly lucky in being well
€@quipped in professors of English, Philosophy, Old Norse, Old AngloSaxon, Old Mull, Old Gold, Old grads, etc., so that the study of Economics
can be approached from many angles.

The most necessary division of the study of Economics is that referred to in jovial, amiable tones by those on the inside as “EcWun”. In
the Calendar, it is spoken of under the chaste, unadorned title of:

» Economics I

Prerequisites: the fact that a student is present at college at all is
taken to signify a certain adeptness, an experineced touch, with the baser
economics of money, either inbred, or inherited. Some students, chiefly
males, develop a definite technique of the “experienced touch” only after
entering university. A really successful student in this latter field has
no need of further study; in fact, some of the professors might even be
interested in working under, or on, the experienced toucher. |

Digest of course: The misconception that this course deals with making money, paying bills, getting another month’s allowance in advance,
etc., should be banished immediately. All instruction is carried on in a
much higher plane, and the real purpose is of course to teach the student
to Think. For this purpose such general knowledge questions as “How
would Wicksteed’s Theory of the Fixed and Variable Marginal Factors
and Co-Factors active in Capitalistic Decentralization of the Law of Diminishing Returns affect the Overhead Significance of the London Price
Market ?”

The lectures deal with various facets of everyday life, such as Devaluation, Import Quotas, Net Productivity, and the Maria Theresa dollar.
(Like the Nutcracker Suite, nothing remains of Maria Theresa but her
dollar. Oh, the good old days!) These have nothing to do with the course
but provide a valuable and soothing opiate for those who forgot the
Bromo-Seltzer the night before. (The occasional thump heard during the
period should cause no student alarm. Rather, he should follow the
tranquil example of the professor, and let sleeping students lie—on the
floor.) The points on which you will be examined will all be found in
various tomes in the Library (which may be reached by proceeding in a
west and northerly direction from the Gym Store, ,and then following any
English Honors student until stopped by the Librarian—advt.). This is
of course anotherstep in teaching the student to Think.

One of the most interesting facets of this intriguing course is its
curves. Engineers are often attracted in great numbers by this feature,
but by Christmas théy have realized, (or someone has told them), that
they are Not That Kind of Curves. In view of this most natural mistake, and so that the University will not have to refund Money, (a principle solidly discouraged by this valuable class), Engineers are then
allowed to drop the class with full credits. Arts students at this stage
are usually just dropped. The curves of the various economic functions

are as follows:
A ee a ae:

(a) is the most wide-spread form of this phenomena, but sometimes (b)
_ is cireumspectly entered by the professor to wake up the philosophers in
_ the back row. Be on your guard! This concludes Economics 1.
Economics 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9: These are spent in taking up Economics 1
and continue to teach the student to Think.

Postrequisite: Those who completed any or all of the above divisions
af Economics, and have thereby learned to Think, may go on to Ph.D in|
Paleontology.

AMPUS
LIPPINGS |

By Boris Funt

?

 

 

   
  

 
  

ambulance to the Red Cross. The
greater part of this sum was raised
by direct contributions of fifty cents
from students, and the remainder
was taken from the Council funds
Vee

She was only a painter’s daughter,

but she could lay it on thick.
—Queen’s Journal.

 

Women students, up till now more
or less aloof from the fears of expulsion that harass their male colleagues will henceforth have to
work harder if they want to stay

ernment regulation exists with re- Woda) aie
at College. Although no official gov-| Just why one always associates
gards to co-eds who fail in their ex-| “dumb” with “blonde”

know. Nevertheless, one of the male’
members of the Gaz staff swore he
could just picture a dazzling blonde
when we read him this verse, culled
from the Queen’s Journal:

He saw her dashing from a car,

And up to her he sped.

“May I help you to alight?”

“I do not smoke,”, she said.

eT

And it must have been the same
one they were talking about on the
inside page of the same paper:

She sat on the steps at eventide

Enjoying the balmy air.

He came and asked: “May I sit

by your side?”

And she gave him a vacant stair.

A step in the right direction, no
doubt . .

ams, three Canadian Universities
have taken steps to remove women
students with unsatisfactory scholastic records, Leading this trend )
Queen’s University, which removed
. - $4 women students after the Xmas

. exams. Similiar steps have been ta
$e

ken at McMaster University and at
the University of Western Ontario.
So watch your step, girls.
V2V-V

McGill is trying something new
in War Activities this week, when
the giant “books for soldiers” gets
under way. The objective is nothing
less than 10,000 books and if realer ized will mean that each student will
| have contributed an average of four
books for the armed services,
. Fr i

. All the world’s a stage, and all
the doctors merely ushers—both
ways.

VvVv

The COTC at the U. of Toronto
must have its troubles too, according to this recent dispatch gleaned
from the “hither and yon” column of
the Varsity:

“This COTC-er is a hurry, see,
Just ain’t got the time to polish his
brass, but said brass is in a very
sad condition indeed, Well, several
cans of goods and they all go to town
jot his friends turn to their little
‘}on the buttons a la assembly line.
. . . Fine work it was, the brass fair_ | ly gleamed. Only trouble was there

-|was enough goo splashed on the

greatcoat to do three jobs... .
| a he ar

 

—The Gateway.

Wy oy |
The University of Toronto,
through its extension department,
plans to offer the first course on
“Gliders and Gliding” ever given in
Canada. Scheduled to start late this
month, the course will have as lec
  
    
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
      
  
      

 

ay
st at a ty
: ba") cin

ita

~~"

Students at the U. B. C. have!
shown their interesst in the war|
effort by their contribution of an)

 

 

 

 

ee

mn ee ee |

RECORD REVIEW

Reviewing a year of recordings,
otherwise known as stuifing the wax
museum, this recorditor makes for
his humble first among the various
styles these top sellers;

(i) New Orleans bounce — the
jazzy, snazzy, My Heart Wilts Like
a buttercup, Under a July Sun”,
done. by the string quintette of Andy
Priceshockovitch, easily leads the
field in the New Orleans field of
blues. -Lhis record features the particularly fine vocalizing of Wineha
Andina, and the expert harp playing
(the strings,are plucked heppicatto)
of Unhappy Hoodlum.

(2) Barbary Coast — old San
Franciseo style of music (“anything
goes in this dance hall, boys’’), is
best shown in the distinctive recording of “Blues Galore” by the Jumpin’
Five, who set the music stores palpitatin’ by their recordin’ (we can go
along with a gag).

(3) Chicago style — the driving
whine of a machine gun bullet finds
ample competition in the Boston}
Burps Recording of “Chicago
Nights”. You don’t know whether
to duck under a table or listen, but
in either case it’s worth the effort.

(4) Montreal style — the skillful
ditty of the red hot brass section of
the Heller and Tide Ensemble runs
high in music stores as the number
one straight instrumental of the
year. It’s entitled “Back to Nature
With Bach”, and has everything to
keep Heller and Tide on top. On the
other side is the equally popular
“Heputation” by Rep-catto.

(5) Halifax—the last issue to be
considered, or the vocal efforts of
the year. Right at the top we find
Boom Madly with “Stop You’re
Beautiful”, the other side being the
collegiate favorite of the year, “Dear
Dad”. Leading the female efforts
is that sweet burpess, Waydowna
Pon, who warbles angellically, “I
can’t give you anything,” the other
side being “So What’’.

(Obtain your top tunes in the following: “My Heart Wilts”, “Back
to Nature with Bach”, ‘“Heputa
ition”, “Stop, You’re Beautiful”, and

“Dear Dad” on Hecka; “Blues Ga|lore”, “Chicago Nights”, on Connatete “T Can’t Give You Anything”

| and “So What”, on Gem Oceani).

Delirium

Silence! A messenger is arriving
from the lodgings of Mijnheer van
Gash-Martin. This messenger bears
an ultimatum directed upon the

"| general public. He reads in the pres
ence of the Gazette staff: “Whereas
[, van Gash-Martin, have had a
slight difference of opinion with a
ranking military person, feel that

|my self respect will not allow me to
| Review the local military situation.
we don’t|I will say this much, however—

(censored). It is due to a stupid
misunderstanding on the part of—
(censored) that I, van Gash-Martin
have fallen from the favor of the
| military”.

There is a flighty young lass who

likes very much to dance. But she
couldn’t go to the Med. Ball be
cause she had mumps, and it would’

be awkward to-dance cheek to cheek.
So Fanjoy couldn’t go to the Med.
Ball either.

Then there is the gay interne who
planned to go to the Med. Ball. But
the night of the dance he had too
much work to do, and couldn’t go
out. So Betty Knapp stayed home
also, and let’s suppose she studied.

A dispatch delayed by the censors: “At the Med.-Boilermaker Ball
a great rumbling was heard as a
tank corps, led by none other than
Major (censored) rolled gloriously through the Nova Scotian ballroom. This corps, ambiguously referred to as “The Boilermakers”,
carried the banner of Phi Delta
Theta ever higher throughout the

 

 

is greeted with this —‘The buttons
are fine, but what did you use to
clean them? A MOP?
SERGEANTS ARE SO UNFAIR”

Vvyv

Now in just what dark corner did
we hear this? |

He: I’m a bank examiner. 
She: Well, I’m no bank.

=

a ee en ee

peer

ll

   

T2SOUARE

At a meeting of the Engineering
Society, President Don Moir announced the joint Med-Boilermakers
Ball had been a financial success, and
he thanked the Meds for their cooperation with the Engineers in
putting on the very enjoyable affair.

nS Pp

It was decided to hold the annual
Engineer’s’ Stag Banquet early in
February, and a committee consisting of Messrs. Bob Musset, George
Smith, Lugar, and President Moir
was elected to arrange it.

Ae

For failing to keep up the high
standard of his office, it is rumored
Graham Bennett will be resigning
his position as President of the Horizontal Club. The most popular of
the new candidates is Bob Wickwire,
'but George Smith and Jack Winterbourne have also been mentioned.

a. eo

Bill Hagen appeared at the MedBoilermaker’s Ball with a brand new
woman: Jean. He was also seen out
much more than usual during the
week, and seemed to be enjoying
life to the full at the Red Cross Ball.
His disappointment when she left
was only lightened by his new “pip”.
On that seore, Bill, congratulations!

pe ae B o

The great misygonist of the Drafting Room, Andy from Lunenburg,
came out of his shell to attend the
Red Cross Ball. Whether it was
merely a patriotic gesture or not we
can’t say, but it looks as though
Fate has things in store, because he
won a couple of show passes in the
drawing. +
; ee

A popular song of the moment,
“I’m Getting Tired so I can Sleep”
seems to have been adopted by our
Secretary-Treasurer as a theme
song. His lapses into Oblivion have
shown a sharp increase lately, to the
extent of dozing in three consecutive
lectures one day last week. Parker
claims its overwork, but another man
from “overseas” says Dan Cupid has
caught up at last.

ee

Some of the boys would like to be
back in Truro with a tape for an
hour or so. It is amazing how much
extra work in the Drafting Room
that extra five minutes can make.

Bos

We always thought Newfie liked
fish, but we heard on positive repute
that he refused Roy’s chowder in
favor of pea-soup. Well, live and
learn. .

Pte st

A piece of advice for some Engineers was given in a lecture the
other day. Speaking from experience, Prof said: if you don’t

want to be criticized all your life, |

don’t get married.
ror 7

As we go to prest we hear Jackie |
While we |
are sorry to see her go, we give her |

is leaving to return home.

our best wishes for a good trip. To

Mackie we say, with Brutus:

“ _..If we do meet again why we
shall smile:

If not, why then this parting was
well made... ”

evening”. This news has been delayed until the members of the corps
have recovered from the effects of
the campaign.

The morning following the Med.
ball, several Med. students looked
quite weary. Buraglia was mourning because the next day had come,
yet he couldn’t remember the dance.
And rumor hati it that Coke bottle
was found belonging to one Spiro,
and one may believe that this bottle
had at one time contained Coke.

And crowning tale of all, two
knights of the Order of the Gleaming Apple helped Major Hogan with
his coat when the dance was over.
Then Charlie Gordon wandered slowly and sadly into view. The dance
was over. He had taken Kissy Maxirius back to the Hall, and he raced
the sunrise on his way to Phi Chi.
But no one seems to remember who
won, Charlie or the sun.

i a *
ee ee eee

 

‘THE NATIONAL FISH Co.

 

 

 

 

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“MIDNIGIHT FOR CRIME”
and
“TOMORROW WE

 

 

 

 

 

Page Three

 

 

“How about
a Coke date”

 

“We've been ‘goin’ steady’ a

 
 
  
 
 
  

long time, you and I. You see,
I’m a symbol of the life and
sparkle of Coca-Cola. Therefore, | speak for Coke. I like
your company. I offer something more than a thirstquenching drink. It’s refreshing. Yes siree...it’s
got that extra something
~ ws you can’t get this side of
nya rates and

a Coca-Cola itself. Let’s get
"er

together. Make it a Coke
date.”

eS
rs

Pes:
Pen

:
a err
ee

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

 

 

 

DALHOUSIANS...

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
490 BARRINGTON STREET LORD NELSON HOPEL

 

 

    
 
 
    
   

CAPITOL

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

*
“‘ Thunderbirds ”

(In Technicolor)

LIMITED
FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

SS“

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET

29 COBURG ROAD JOHN SUTTON

HALIFAX Nova Scotia
Sw

~.

0

~~

GARRICK |
ee |
Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“VARSITY SHOW”
DICK POWELL

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“Yankee-Doodle
Dandy”
JAMES CAGNEY

 

LIVE”

 

ORPHEUS

Tuesday and Wednesday

“CRIMINAL INVESTIGATOR”
“STAGE COACH EXPRESS”

CASINO |.
*

Saturday, June 30

“The
Powers Girl”

GEORGE MURPHY

Thursday - Friday - Saurday

“WAR DOGS”
“SUNSET IN THE DESERT”

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday

“MUSIC GETS HER MAN” ||
“STREET OF CHANCE”

Wednesday and Thursday

“HER CARDBOARD LOVER”
“THE FALCON’S BROTHER”

ANNE SHIRLEY
CAROL LANDIS

T. BENNY GOODMAN
AND HIS ORCHESTRA

Friday and Saurday

“SEVEN DAYS’ LEAVE”
“GRAND CENTRAL MURDER”

 
 
  
 
  
 

oye

ay ese
ie have been criticized by other

wien for. _ggntinually,

  

 
  

a+ in; in the face of a
* i p tetlen, af Dellichhianties vor (defeats

s we NPR, ee met eens

our

   
 

es

Fs ~ next th basketball and
és, “Footbal wht aes profitable. * iat
a aM ooo had tough sledding, but
(is ming through. —
i if ie. ee ©€
le 5) 2 “4 Ola |
Ka U Semiehow, not pane attention].
fee, teas been’ pal’ to" one of the grandest |
by) i "chaps ope, would. like to meet around |
yi Dalhousie. pomevs he is too unob- trusive.” Anyway, he gets solidly behind student. sports as, basketFS yall tennis, and makes this
- ease sporting © (eomoe a _ monly known as “knocking the stuf*
- fing out of the bird”) successful for

» many students with a real bent for

 
   
     
   
 
 

Li
ie
—_—

_you haven’t guessed who it is,
; but there wort bé much
“difference. Professor Mercer is the
"name. and if you look in the UniverMe sit endar yc you'll wonder how he
jever gets some rest because he has
is all those Jatigungé orie’s dnd two's}.
to teach, and they ‘lave! Cavr' of |
bs | written exercises with them.
os It’s to his favor that he pnder
, [takes this extra-curridular tivity
| for the student body. ‘So jHere’s’ a
2 name erenoaiver: Kratesrer C. H.
ze Mere:

oc “=

Nh ms Oc is: ‘out.bouquets,
5 _ here's one to Burnie. Perhaps you

n’t Know, but he has been ‘doing
this eeclens for all teams|
- gratis (This enables him to keep
_ his amateur standing in sports). Re-|
ri. > Council voted
Ceohesta of 2200 for his

      
  
   
  
    
    
   
    
   
  
  
  
     
   
  
  

9
}

i 4
A
WV
Pi
‘s

nt V

 

aie

| Mier aren oil has to come to an
“end. You took it well.

 

us he, gladly accepts
mitission of the Emperor to
| ¥ feheea) j in Palestine learning about
‘Jesus. There: | he meets many early
| | Christians as them Stephen
: — and becomes a
Ct Vpses) returns to
| Rome, reports to the Emperor, and
Biers sais to death. by Emperor
Sh Caligula in -his_persecutions of the
_. Christians. The Robe is given to

Pofateth réad a book that
pa

 

os

~
Four Experienced Barbers

d

, OF A TAT cy
: a. — ia is TS.
’ MA OV ¥
\ a ee ; rc
_ TEA BOOM
- ; - 4
SPRING GARDEN ROAD (
oo SAS) ‘ Ty 4.)
yi SO Bm. ir
?. s
Pe 5 ~ * F
os . Cates hm,
FA x w a irae i
i 7
= is iy . Ps A ati "y “5
7 ? - 4 .
oh »' Pe
: wii 3
Vea P
a
fi

 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 

r share sone D Bison

\ | worked

Y career when

vu 4

   
  

1 1 pniform,
d to spot as

} points
f, and

for Nai 4 in ee |

\ the three. were the ‘seamen stars.

‘For. Dal Ralston and PAny were
the bright Rents. M9

‘ Litiewpss" oe ™

- Navy—Arnott, MeCatlum, Stewart,
Berry, Devitt, Killam, Goodman.

“Dal-Ralston (5); Van Allen (4),
Dunbrack (4); Oakley, White (4),
Darcy AD, Johnston.

 

June ces
Date Is Set

Wartime has. blasted yet another
Dalhousie tradition, and as a result
that much looked for free ticket the
eniors...get..from...the..Juniors for
their Prom ‘will mot be forthcoming

Uh at year. Instead, it was announcby da dance -ch chairman Glen Hubley,
the senior ‘lass will be given the
privilege of getting tickets at half
price p to February 5, and after
that full“ptice is the fare of all.

The dance, to be held this year in
the Lord Nelson on’ ‘the 11th, was
considered a-risk unless some guarantee of expenses could be made.
The result is that because of reduced
numbers on all dance floors the
seniors have to suffer, However, it
is in the interests of wartime economy, and seniors should not be ad‘verse to facing one of the. best
socials of the season at a small
token cost.

 

novel. One thing that impressed
‘me was the belief of Demetrius, who
was an educated “Greek but a slave
because the Romans conquered his
country, that a change of government will not bring the millenum.
The age of the Roman Empire was
an age similar to our own—highly
civilized and yet torn with war,
economic distress, and confusion and
political corruption. No government
has enough power to do everything
— no government can reform the
country against the will of the people for the government must work
through officials who are people, and
who interpret and apply the law
and do the actual governing. There
is much that each individual or
small group of individuals can do to
make a better world. The Roman
government would not have objected

—nay, it would have rejoiced—if the
Jews had really wanted a better life
and had cleared and improved Jerusalem, and cared for their crowds
of beggars, and sick and crippled,
and seen that everyone had good
food, clothing, shelter, and some
leisure instead of each individual
grabbing for himself at the cost of
his neighbor. The people themselves
needed the inner urge to make a
| better world, and if they had it and
‘sacrificed for their ideal
no government could prevent a bet| ter world. If Jesus had become Emperor it would have availed little
| unless every person had a desire for
{a better world 4 had wanted to

me gts uaa veo i

i: individual. |
RS, Be eee B.
wore) ay a7: Leah”
“SIGH Per xa ava |
;
PATE et ae AN cers ae oe 7 > oe wee + 29T*e w

TTT

a A =

ply last sum
 

m ~ DALHOUSIE. eaerre

  

_ Written appli
sity Store for the p
year,

31, 1942.

of Stote M
The heieen carries. a salary of $200.00 annually.
Male and female applications will. be
Committee. Applications will be receive

January 29, 1943

 

ayTs TRAD ial JOH, TA

NOTICE Wee

ing weceived at
sepcived at fort

te te

by..the
‘up till Janua nk

Due to immediate retirement of the present Manager,
a temporary appointment to take over the duties from
February 1, 1943, for the balance of the present year will

separately.

 

also be considered. It is preferable that the student considering the permanent position should take over imme
diately after the Ist of February, but applications for bet)
the permanent and temporary position will be considere?

 

New Music. Club
Has First Meeting

The first meeting of the New
Music Club was held on Saturday
night at the home of Miss Margaret
Ells, Tower Road. It was decided
that the Club would foster the appreciation and enjoyment of music
and 'the enjoyment of informal social
gatherings. A temporary committee
was elected to serve until the next
meeting, standing as follows:

President—Harry Zappler.
Mus. Director—Lionel Guravich.
Social Conyenor—Betty O’Toole.
Secretary—Henry Carter.

During; supper a. birthday cake
served to celebrate Beth, Littlejohn’s
birthday. The short, musical program
consisted of Mozart’s “Eine Kleine
Nachtmusik“. and “Haffner” Symphony, and Beethoven’s “Vieness Dancer’, and at its conclusion a very

hearty. vote of thanks was accorded | “LEpitr e”

Miss Ells for her hospitality.

Because a large number of those
who expressed a desire to join were
not present, a new election will. be
held at the next meeting, to take
place Sunday afternoon at. 2.30 at
305 Robie Street. The programme
feature is the Sunday broadcast of
the New York Philharmonic-Symphony, conducted this week by Bruno
Walter. The all-Beethoven concert
will consist of the “Emperor” Concerto, the “Egmond” Overture, and
the “Pastoral” Symphony No. 6.

All students, graduate and undergraduate, are invited to join. You
don’t have to know anything about
music, and you needn’t feel out of
Rlace, because you don’t know. the
name of the conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra. Amateur musicians will be very welcome, but will
not be forced to play.

Red Cross to Benefit—

Continued from page 1

couples crowding the Mary Kenney
formal dances out, augmented by the
gasoline-rubber shortages which cut
down on private cars. Last. year’s
total of $600 for the Red Cross
seemed as far away as the moon, as
cut of reach except for a proverbial
cow.

$300 was. reached. Playing their
parts were John MacInnes of Law,
and Blanchard Wiswell of ‘Engineers (see cut). Surprise packages
ranging from eatables to wearables
were given by downtown merchants.
The large Navy orchestra swung
out with the solid jive of the boys
in blue. The big names of the
campus world were there as chaperons, together with Red Cross officials. Students and outsiders crowded the Gymnasium to its slight capacity.

Fighting dollars will go out from
the campus to work jin the international field. Ané! settled for a night
in the University is the problem
play in wartime? It was recreation
for victory.

 

0.T.C. Tomorrow-Continued from page 1

man of the committee, and the affair
will be held towards the end of February or the beginning of March.
“It will be a purely military ball,”
Major Hogan. stated. Bandmaster
Ward, has consented to provide a
military band from his famous organization. Although the interviewer was not allowed to, disclose al] information about the dance, he was
told some things, tentatively classed

iin as

Medicine.
|Dentistry To

Continue

Classes in| medicine and dentistry
will be continued throughout the
summer, Dr. Carleton Stanley has
released to the press. Asked eoncerning enrolment, he stated probably no. new students would enter
the summer’s courses; which were
continuations of those already in
progress.

Summer classes in ‘science will be
held in some lines: Chemistry specifically, has been named, ‘and there
would be some work in, Physics. No
classes will be given in Biology, less
affected by.the war. No engineering
classes will he held after,the regular ending of the term.

Debuts
At Cercle Meeting

Last Friday, at. its. second meeting, “Le Cercle Francais’ introduced
its new paper, “L’Epitre’. The
journal was released without fanfare by its editors James McLaren
and: Harry Buxton, who hope “to receive the: co-operation, of the ‘Cercle’s’ members in, forthcoming issues;’,.and plan jte publish an edition
for the future monthly. meetings) of
the society.

In view of wartime economy, only
light refreshments were served at
the meeting, held as before, at
Shirreff Hall. The lucky male members were.outnumbered.ten to one
by ‘les jeunes filles”, who turned up
en masse. Appropriate songs and
comic recordings were enjoyed. Purther entertainment. was..intreduced
in the form of a game which might |

 

have been.morye suecessful had there |

been a largér male attendance, but
which nevertheless afforded hilarious amusement. Francophiles were
thrilled with “one. member’s rendition, of “En pleurant comme une
vache”. , Miss. Lafeuille admirably
executed her task of singing “La
Marseilleise’’.

After such a successful meeting,
“Le Cercle” hopes that in the future
there will be many more new members, who will. benefit, by the opportunities offered by so fine a society.

HEADS U. A. T. C.—

Continued from page One

of the R.C.A.F., welcome into this,
our newest University Corps, those
of you who have already decided to
join us. Dalhousie and King’s, with

 

|the passing of years, have always

made many vital contributions to the
enrichment of our every day life.
You who comprise the student body
today have a great deal to live up to.
You have, indeed, great traditions to
uphold.

“Many Dalhousie-King’s graduates
are now serving with the R.C.A.F.
on all major battle-fronts throughout the world, and they, especially,
join in welcoming the establishment
of a University Air Training Corps
of theirAlma Mater. They look to
you who are members of this Corps
to make it, in ‘fact, the very finest
in the entire Dominion.

“For the members of No. 16 (Dalhousie University) Squadron, University Air Training Corps, theré is
a great deal of work ahead and much
of it will be difficult. You will be
required not only to study administration, law, discipline and organization, mathematics, navigation, first
aid, hygiene and sanitation, aircraft
recognition but you will also be
expected to know airmanship, the

as “military FOSTER» which were) theory of flight and engines, signals,

armament, eee and whe latest

SS a
ee

 

  
 

methods of counteracting enemy gas.
Upon the completion of your Uniee Air Training Corps work, you

For Sporting

s of

    
    
 

Wansferréd to the Special]])
R ee  ythe A, and your}: on 5%
hi 18 ities’ will then) est Quality

  

commence.
“To President Carleton Stanley,
and to each and eyery member of
the Faculty, we of the B.C. AF ., ex>
prone our gratitude ‘for your sincere
:a-9peration and helpfulness. Te the
studeht body we appeal far y,holehearted support in our joint effort to
nake this ne» Squadron worthy of
the name it bears.
(Sed.) F./O. R. H. COMEAU,
Adbntnistrative eee No. 16, Dalhousie University Squadron, University Air ‘raining Corps.

“SURE I'M HAPPY

and a Complete
Music Service

Call.on

       
 

| PIANOS ~ CHURCH ORGANS
SHEET MUSIC - RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

  
    
 

 

“Picobac tastes so good—is such
a mild, cool, sweet smoke—it helps a
man to concentrate while he's working
and to relax when he’s through. Be
happy with Picobac”’

 

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835’

S. Cunard & Co., Ltd.

SOFT COAL
FUEL OIL

*

HARD COAL
COKE

Halifax, N. S. Dartmouth, N. S.

 

A National

 

 
