    
     

 

For Every Brickbat .. .
Pine Hill Residence,
Halifax, N. S.,
January, 18th, 1943

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear fix,

‘Por two years now, we have seen the ‘Argosy Weekly’—the voice of
studemt opinion of Mount Allison University—coming into our common
room at Pine Hill. I wonder if our friends at Sackville will forgive us if

‘we compare it for one fleeting moment to the messy, sprawling rag our
owe university is producing and of which you have the honor to be

editer. We have never studied at Mt. Allison—we have never seen her
campes; how then must HER students feel who have come to Dalhousie
seeking a higher education?

We do not lay our grievance entirely at the editor's feet—perhaps he

‘ie doing his best,—it is the material with which he is working that is

questionably representing university intelligence. We know nothing of
the faumds with which you have to work, but that of course governs in no

way the quality of the Gazette’s contents.

We offer this constructive thought: that a committee be formed to

find the lights now burning under bushels, and that the Gazette truly

becomes a flame fitting for our ‘College by the Sea’. Otherwise we would

‘suggest you scrap the works and increase Dalhousie’s givings to the Red
Cressi,—for

dance you so generously contributed six lines in your
Mery sincerely yours, |
(Sgd.) J. W. THOMAS
A. A. WILKINSON
H, K. HALL

| (Ba.—The Red Cross dance can sell only 250 tickets, needs not the
same amount of publicity as formerly. We talked the situation over
with Chairman Blanchard Wiswell, and also dedicated our issue to the
damce. As for the constructive criticism suggested, the duties of the

Editor entail such work. The obvious solution. . .)

Bouquets

11 Cartaret Street,
Halifax, N. S.,
January 19, 1943

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,
Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N.S.

Dear Sir,

{ would like to congratulate you on the excellent edition of the
Gazette on January fifteenth. I know people always complain when
anything is not just right so I believe in showing my appreciation when
a thing is excellent. The only fault I can find with the recent edition of
the Gazette is that the Literary section did not follow the ene theme
of the peper.

This edition certainly brings home to us a pleasing satirical manner
what the people of occupied Europe must suffer. The paper could not be
better dedicated than to The Aid to Russia Fund and the Red Cross for
certainly both organizations are doing all in their power to relieve

{ once again extend my congratulations and sincerely hope that the
Gazette might sometime again surprise with another novel issue.

Sincerely,
H. RHODES COOPER.

Dear Mr. Editor:
Congratulations on the excellent issue of the Gazette you put out
this week. By the comments heard around the campus, it would seem

that you have at last accomplished the impossible, namely, to stir up
_ enough students out of their peaceful sleep to express a violent opinion
one way or another, The issue brought home the fact that it can happen

here. Students may awaken to the fact that Fascism is not a thing to be

ignored, that it is at the least unpleasant, I would now suggest that you

i put out an issue picturing what would happen if we allowed our native

Faseists to take over and heaven knows they are trying their darndest. 
Under fascism, in ‘whatever form it might take, there is no such
thing as liberty. Universities would cease to be institutions of learning

__-where it is even possible to acquire a liberal education. Admittedly, a lot
of stadents at Dalhousie are not particularly interested in acquiring a
the ee if any kind of education. Your splendid issue should do a lot to

_ drive home the idea that liberty is not only something to be defended on
the battlefield but must also be defended in the universities. For if de
ss Mocracy is not aggressively used, it wil A disappear, it will wither and die.
ae Hurray again for you!

: | Thankfully yours,
} aa” | ee _ ARTS STUDENT.

x
x
i

“THE COLLEGE

Ges /
    
 

age

Challenge!

By HARRY 8S. ZAPPLER

This New Year, there is no occasion for making conventional and
sentimental speeches. There are too many new problems and ideas surrounding us that we can afford to be conventional—or shall we rather
say: old problems and ideas that need to be attended to now if civilization should make a step forward instead of backward—and there is too
much to be done that requires youthful initiative that we could afford to
be sentimental. War, more brutal than any savages ever led, is raging
over the whole globe, and the most primitive rights of man are once
again at stake.

To be able to go to college in times as these is a great privilege.
Everyone that wants to avail himself of this must fully realize that, in
return, he has to commit himself to fulfil certain duties. Attending the
drills of the C.O.T.C, or knitting socks, as the case might be, is certailny
not all that is expected from a college student in return for the grant
of this privilege. What other duties are there then?

University in peace and more so in times of emergencies has not
only to furnish the community with professional experts and artists, but
also has to provide leaders. It not only has to give its students a scientific
or artistic training by its regular courses, but also, by its extra-curricular
activity, has to develop the personality of the individual student and to
raise him to the highest possible cultural standard. Democracy, at all
times, and especially in an international crisis which will not end till long
after the last gunshot will have been fired, demands a great host of men
and women who are consolidated within themselves and who know what

 

SHARP CUT IN FOR HIGHER EDUCATION—

5 of
toy Seem Ba

 

University Leaders Draft
Wartime Student Program

At Ottawa, Jan. 10, Canadian University leaders drafted
a wartime program which will result in a ruthless reduction of
the number of students taking “liberal arts” courses. Details
have not been finally publicized, but a virtual rationing of
higher education was seen.. Arthur MacNamara, recently appointed Director of National Selective Service, in an address to
the university men, said: “At the worst it may be hoped that
male students not liable or fit for military service, female students and a steadily-increasing number of discharged men,
wil] maintain the student population at a level sufficient to permit maintenance of staffs and educational standards.”

| Mrs.

things are about and what they are doing.
(continued on page two)

 

Red Cross Ball
Held Tonight

Seeking to duplicate last year’s.
successful Red Cross Ball, which
raised $600, tonight’s affair will be
held in the Gymnasium under sponsorship of the Students’ Council.
Committee-engineer Blanchard Wiswell is in charge and reports that
a few tickets will be available at
the door, and may also be bought at
Roy’s this afternoon.

Because of a hysteria of firemania which has swept the Atlantic
Coast in recent months after several
disasters, recent orders have prohibited more than 250 couples in the
Gymnasium. (After a few moving
picture houses blaze, the seats there
will look like closing night of the
A.Y.P.A. production of “Uncle Peter”). However, come rules or regulations, the gym is to be crammed
to the capacity, according to all predictions gathered.

Chaperons for the social will be
Dr. and Mrs. H. Grant, Prof. and
Copp, Prof. and Mrs. C. L.
Bennett, and Prof. and Mrs. John
Willis. Dancing to Naugler.

“Sadie Hawkins”
Day to be Feb. 19;
Open House Soon

At the meeting of Denta Gamma,
held Tuesday, President Mary Boswell in the chair, it was decided to
hold another Open House at Shirreff
Hall on Jan. 30, and all are urged to
attend. Tickets are 35c.

The following announcement caused
great excitement among the girls:
The annual “Sadie Hawkins” dance
will be held at the Gym on Feb. 19,
tickets $1.25, and the proceeds are
to go to the Community Chest’ Since
this is always the best dance of the
college year, a large turn-out is expected. The initiative is with the
girls this time, so our advice to the
boys is merely—Be on Your Guard!

The girls are also planning a
dance for the boys in one of the
Services in the near future.

It was decided that the debating
manager would go before the Coun
cil to ask for a transfer of the 2%
points formerly gained through radio
debates, now no longer held, to inter-class debates, in the constitution.

 

Glee Club Play Cast
For “Fresh F elds”

The three-act comedy “Fresh
Fields” has been set for this year’s
offering of the Dal Glee Club. The
play, written by Ivor Norvello, played to packed houses in both London
and New York a few years ago, and
since that time has proven S.R.O.
material for both professional and
amateur productions.

For the present, Mr. MacNamara
would be satisfied by the following
program: Universities to weed out
the incompetent and mediocre students; all students to take their
military training, and that National
Selective Service may call up students “even though that interrupts
their courses”, if it is in the interests and requirements of the armed
services or the industrial war effort.

No Mid-term Call-up.

“In any case, I can certainly assure you that no call-up in the middle of the academic year, and no
basic change in policy will be undertaken except in the common-sense
way after full consultation with
university authorities,” stated Mr.
MacNamara.

“The greatest asset of our nation
is the growing generation,” he stated. “On its quality our whole fu
The celebrated Canadian actress,|ture depends and we must make

Margaret Anglin, starred in the
American production, and the role,
described as a meaty character part,
will be played at Dal by Elaine
Hopewell. Joan Archibald, Mavis
Bimson, Kay Finnimore have been
tentatively set for important roles.
The presence of the male cheering
section at the opening night is assured, for also in the cast is none
other than Barbara White. Though
rather short our male parts, “Fresh
Continued on page 3

- 8
Q. T. C. Reorganizes

For New Season

Dalhousie O.T.C. heads into the
new season with one of the biggest
“moral” victories of the military
stay at this university under their
belts. As a result of a complete
reorganization of the companies, and
a rearrangement of hours of drill to
allow Sundays off, the permanent
staff find a new zenith for their
popularity, and the absentees at parades stepped down.

All medical students have been
taken into two platoons, and are receiving instruction in medical subjects approved by the D.M.0O., Col.
G. R, Forbes.

Apparently the new change comes
in time, for Sergeant MacAskill Harlow has been reported as ill again,
The popular member of the staff
had an appendix operation shortly
before Christmas, and is still in poor
health.

Eleswhere on the O.T.C. front, a
big ball has been planned, and arrangements are being carried out.
Two 2nd Lieutenants, G. F. Curtis,
Law, and R. D. Mussett, Engineering, were successful in qualifying in
examinations for Lieutenants (R)
held at Aldershot December 19. A
church parade is shortly to me _carried out. aN

every effort to maintain our educational standards to ensure maintenance of its quality”.

By resolution the conference expressed its gratitude to Mr. MacNamara for his review of the situation confronting higher education.
By resolution it also planned to keep

DIPO ¢

 

in touch with the Government and
in the event of revision of the manpower policy a special conference
will be called.

Post-War Problems.

Dr. Sidney Smith, President of
the University of Manitoba, and
former Dean of Dalhousie’s Law
School, stated the conference dealt
with an interim report from a committee on post-war problems of university students and the universities.

Special attention was devoted in
this interim report to the problem

of re-establishing men demobilized
from the armed forces in university

courses which were interrupted by
enlistment, or in obtaining full matriculation standing if they did not
have it before enlisting.

The report of this committee will é

be considered at the next meeting
of the university conference, scheduled for next May or June. Locale
of the meeting has not been decided.

At the conference from Dalhousie
University were Dr. Carleton Stanley, President; Dr. A. K. Griffin.
Classics, and Dr. H. L. Stewart,
Philosophy. No further addition to
the general report is available as
yet from these men.

Dalhousie Institute of
Public Opinion

What Did You Think of the Last Issue of The Gazette?

Opinions were sharply divided as to the merits of the last issue of

the Gazette.
often classed it as one of the best.

were undecided.

Among other things the last Gazette was termed “original”, carte
tional”, and “timely” by its eulogists, and “foolish” and “badly timed” by

its critics.

Bs BS

What Is the Chief Reason For the Large Number
of Failures On the Recent Exams?

Students seem undecided as to the cause of the large number of
failures on the exams. Chief cause, frankly cited by 29% of the students,
was lack of study. The amount of time taken by the C.O.T.C. was considered by 23% as one of the chief factors contributing to the poor marks, |

Some students, about 10%, felt that too much study, and trying too

hard, were responsible for failures.

tion, was another cause frequently cited. Other opinions were that the

exams were harder, and p*ofessors

One student blamed failures on “the addiction of youth to dissipation
and debauchery in the midst of a world at war”.
said that tea and coffee rationing resulted in students’ falling asleep at
their studies, and hence failing in their exams.

* *

eee

and undecided.

Should Co-eds Who Fail In Their Exams Be made
to Join the C.W.A.C.’s?

Co-eds will not be drafted into the C.W-.A.C. if Dal rier have their
way. Of those questioned 58% were opposed to the proposals.
42% felt that in all fairness girls should be subject to the same treatment as boys and favoured the proposal. The other 5% remained aloof

The majority, 65%, thought it was exceptionally good, and
Another 31%,
fervent in their sharp criticism of the last issue.

however, were just as
The remaining 6%

e 5

Restlessness, due to the war situamore unrelenting than usual.

A brilliant freshette

> I

Another

 
   
 

 

‘expressed in any mn of THI ¢

on “camict he asin that they represent the mse aie &
Motniay | aan went
‘ GAZETTE STAFF

reeds a ek bik V0'e sdble's oy. be kee lee MLECIOR VO
ANAgEr ...----..-+seccceececceee cc... Webster Macdonald
See Fon Te Tite eee: Ted Shields
a Reet eyed Adee ae ae Peter Donkin
Edito De epic bere rire Me Try Ed on
‘Literarv: Editor Del hiks dea veep uah ocobles sevens dale Davia. Coldwe
Clu. F. e Merry
‘ fe FP. and Exchang

  
  
 
  
  
   
 

bere othe cee, reese on

Eugen
hotowre phic Editor Sider a atite Ula anhe bese GSA 8 ainlence este MRD ORMLIG Oland
. aden i Bemis Tr eT h = eH ty eas yeegy--F ames McLaren

_" VAT UT
| ee :
att hoe
; : &

ery
thee €° iv,
Saat vi) 4

  
 
   
  
 

/ Seep
] cAEORA,

CIGARETTES

 
 
 

 

 

 

  
 
 
   
 
  

CHALLENGE

(continued from page one) :
| Young men aud women who do what they commit themselves to do,
10 face difficult situations courageously and are generous in and capable
| Rie f -giving~help to others; who do not have to linger around in bars or

show ete to “kill” time, but who know how to enjoy every minute
€ w to use every minute to the best advantage; who have
edt Ss general theoretical and practical experience in political,
ul and economical problems whether in international or personal af
has become essential for everyone who desires to judge fairly

, ee on courses to be followed. Human beings, in other words,
t H gods!) that feel at ease in the community of mankind, and
© RoR of being chosen to be leaders-chosen not because there is no
4. to take their place, but chosen from the midst of a great number
rable and capable democratic citizens as | the one best filled for
R: we 7 teak. « $

i Our brothers are sacrificing their lives to bring this cruel war tn a
aes ul finish, and many of us who are behind the college walls will not
| y yet have to make a more generous contribution to this effort. The solemn
aap of all of us, however, will be to see that this bloodshedding will not
have been in vain and that justice will be done in the end to all who deRees. it; that freedom and democracy will really prevail in this world
: and become an integrate part of human society. It will be the duty of
" every democratic citizen to contribute with all his might, abilities and
nes generosity to the building of the peace and to the maintaining of democo racy throughout the world. For only under these conditions can democracy
% ; live. and only under these conditions is freedom plausible and justified.
7 Me It will be we then who will be called upon to provide leadership from
ine . a our ranks—we, not because we are a privileged aristocracy, but

  
  
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
     
    
  
    
    
   
  
   
    
    
    
 

Ona rta, and British Columbia, (where Noha rabies are granted
- government to the student that couidn’t afford other| to go to University), and due to certain extra-curricular activities,
e shall be considered the first batch of qualified young people in Canada
, will have enjoyed a very democratic education. It will be also up

= us to see that we are really only the first batch with many more gen_@Fations to follow, to see that equal opportunity for a truly democratic
i education will, indeed, become an established fact and not merely remain
4 a political slogan or one of a series of printed peace aims.

 

  
  
    
   
 
  
  
   

Do you think we shall be able to handle this great task? Do you
|  )irealize’ that we shall be confronted with very difficult situations and that
iron tx. have no choice but to face them and tackle them if we ourselves
he want to live in peace and want to ensure peace for generations to follow?

    
   
   
  

| - these etiectations? Or, in more.simple terms, do you yourself feel at
k a ease in company and have you enough theoretical and practical knowledge
to Join, in an intelligent discussion on world or everyday affairs, be it

 
  
  
  
 
 

r do you feel pabtiebrigetaus or self-possessed, are you bashful or a
» rer? do you make prejudiced statements which you cannot support,
r: Spatly for the sake of saying something or do you prefer to be taken
as a “wise listener’? Do you know how to plan your spare time intellia gently and how to develop your tastes and your soul? Do you enjoy
fine arts and music and know something about them. Do you live
-open-eyes when-you are out at work during vacations or would you
- get drunk and sleep the rest of the time?
ellow students, your career is so rich of opportunities for learning
to enjoy every bit of life, how to make the best of your time. Why
| (don’t you awake to liye? Would you really prefer to be one of a great
4 a of sheep following a fascist dictator?
i n’t let us start 1943 with empty words. Let us get together and
od asomething about the lamentable situation in which so many of us find
our The problem is not so hard after all: the one is more familiar

   
  
   
   

 

i) the

   

   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
 

isn give more in one field, the other in another field, and others
will start off by receiving only. There are over 600 students at Dal- housie a number which sheuld justify a little more extra-curricular
-activties than, there.are at present. Think this over yourself for once,
gi ; now, and let us know by letter what your opinion on this subject is.
“order to make pleat what exactly is purposed, here are a few. sug“gestions:
How about Starting a Music Club? This club could meet during the
and’ provide social entertainment. There are several amongst
us who play instruments and these ‘could, in an informal circle perform
; solo or in groups. There are others who have most respectable record
Br Hections. It could possibly also be arranged to borrow records from
-_ tnusic stores ‘or invite guest-artists. Such evenings could finish off with,
reshments and also dancing. M
- And one’ more suggestion: who would be interested in a Social and
iia Science Club? The purpose of this club would be the study of
problems, the study of classical and modern literature that falls
0 this field, ineluding anything from. classical and modern poems, plays,
ie , to essays in today’s periodicals and-g2ners, and political docur Pala Every member would have to také an active part in the work—
'y kind of study group. Discussions could be held and guest speakers
from the University Staff or from outside the campus could be invited.
Mduaborate with us in making this campaign the first ‘great effort on
he Dalhousie Campus in the new year, a real success. Do not forget, it
on a pure ly democratic basis, and completely depends on the support
f ever} - individual. Do not leave it to others for once, for they will not
de o it. ae oe ney mind for yourself and let us knw what your opinion
re extra-curricula activities is. Sins! peatident shebstionaadotae sp
pak fo yu in 1943, and do not fail\in your duty! ie a

sf

  
   
  
    
   
  
  
    

od ane

 

a7

 

 

   
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  

 

  
 
 
  
 

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked”

  

 

~S SS <> <> <> ~~ ~—S >" SOS

} FARMERS’ MILK

} Is Stimulating . . . It Peps You Up!
} io

“PASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

~—S —— i ~~ S ~~ ~L — ~— ~~

THE

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX

Phone B-7138

MacLeod - Baleom

LIMITED
0
DRUGGISTS
Headquarters for Students
Requirements.
Oo.

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

Y Batat...

‘EVANGELINE |
hr TEA ROOM

"564 oF GARDEN ROAD
-9571

 

IDENTIFICATION
BRACELETS

Nto a gadget, but a practical gift for civilian, or
one in the services.

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

Birks have them in gold- C]
filled and sterling, and ‘college crests may be at- WELCOME
tached.
Henry Birks & Sons TO
Limited
DALHOUSIE
Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society [J

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

Fo = = =.

 

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

* Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University,
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

~ Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music; Engineering, Pharmacy, Education,

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing,
of M.A., M.Se.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

leading to degrees

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
iy the B.Sc, course, about $190 a year.

jf

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men,

 

 

 
  
  

Pioneers

We thought ourselves pioneers blazing a forest trail,
Where none, but; i. nitn had been before,

> a We laughed) at 1 : ety stumbling over stones,

 & ie And traitipige ties to make our path a floor,

 
 

We thought ourselves ee fatheg a great wrienp wa
What perils and adventures lay—ahead!

Strange wood-lands beckoned, begged to be explored,
Strange creatures stared, before our footprints fled.

‘We picked bright) berries, flayddted wild and sweet,
) Then, rested” by a brook and eased our fears,
) . Reéalling our baskets ‘held a picnic lunch,
) And Indians were quite civilized these years,
) f Zee K. E. B
f :
/

 

| The Choral Symphony of Beethoven

What is truly great-in art is simple
and unadorned, but what is merely
{ |simple .and unadorned, though cre{|ated by genius, remains empty. and
?|barren when _ unfired. by _yital. idea,
The Choral Symphony is simple.and
pure music, and the greatness of
Beethoven’s genius is not the whole
greatness of the work, but it is fired
by the greatness ‘of idea.

man, weak and mortal, and of death,
which calls all men forth on a forced
journey beyond the familiar. world.
Man_ faces. death in stoic fortitude,
but. he is. sad, for he loves life, even
though chaotic and _ orderless. He
feels a benevolent power exists that
governs. the . uniyerse .. despite « the
seeming chaos, even though he perceives no ordéred good. Deep organblown notes confirm his hopes. “The
benevolent? power exists, ‘and order
exists though chaos may” 86m ° to
prevail-on earth. 'Though man “dies
an earthly death, his spirit lives on
earth while his kind survives, ‘and
the. individual. who. -flings - himself
heartily into his life on, earth may
never perish.while man lives. om-’A
benevolent power exists throughout
the _ universe, and; transcends the
universe, and though faced by death
man is confident that his life has
meaning in the universe, and he does
not fear death. Man becomes resigned towards death, but he is sad
to leave this life on earth, and the
sadness of death again lave hold upon the music, the power in the revelation of benevolent order subsides,

and the final passages of the adagio
breathe of man’s calm yet sorrowful

acceptance of death.

 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  

How idea may be written in music
may not exactly be. told,,and. one
may do no more than plausibly to
guess. There are those who hold
that pure music is a thing abstract
from human affairs, and’ unmixed
with thought and émotion. " But
musi¢ cannot éxpress ‘nothing’ nor
mean nothing. “The vital matter of
music is idea. The classic structure
of Beethoven’s music suggests the
idea of moderation. and restraint.
Thought. is not abstract, from feeling, and ideas carry a halo of emotion common in some degree to all
minds ‘where the idea exists; and
with emotion music may ‘deal directly, and, by interpreting the emotion, express the ideation, express
the idea, not exactly, as by words,
but in a manner more total and diffuse by delivering broad and general impressions through .emotional
association.

All thoughtfuk» men commonly
think on such idéas-as the nature of
a good life, or the:nature of men or
the existence and nature of duty,
and these ideas are a part of what
men call philosophy. The philosophy
of ‘Beethoven is the vital part of his
music.

The choral finale of the symphony
is the vigour of life, and all men are
united in the joy of living. The
themes of. the preceding: movements
are reviewed in turn; and each is tejected. Then a new theme is intfroduced and developed, and at length
a baritone’ voice ‘yecites ‘the first
Stanza of Schiller’s' “Ode to Joy”.

The first. movement. of the Chora]
Symphony tells of universal chaos.
In all the world there is no order,
and all things occur blindly by
chance and. | accidental foree, Man
faces his ungoverned environment
with stoicism and fortitude and
though jarred and shaken, he’ dave
not yield. He knows no power
benevolent. beyond his own ‘will, yet! The musie¢ tells of the joy of life,
hopes that benevolent powers exist. |and of mankind sharing ‘the joy of
His way is hard, but he perseveres, |e, no longer the careless mirth of
and by persevering, his way is abies the gods, but of men living in
less dark than by yielding to external forces, and his spirit remains
strong and hopeful through all his
ehaneed misfortunes in ‘the chaotic
upheaval, of an ungoverned wuhiverse.

The ‘scherzo movement’ 6f the
symphony thunders with’ the ~ destructive mirth of careless gods.
These gods are untroubled by thé
chaos of the world. They may
laugh’ at chaos because they are
strong and’ immortal. Yet they are
of the world, for their joys are: of
the world. Jupiter laughs ,at_ the
ills of mortals, and his companion
gods and goddesses laugh in chorus
together. Far. removed from worldly troubles, they laugh and jest
among themselves. Their gladness
is the gladness of Olympus,

The adagio movement speaks of

Freude, schoner Gotterfunken,

Tochter aus Elysium,

Wir betreten feuertrunken,

Himmlische, dein Heilictum.

Deine aber binden wieder,
Was die’ Mode streng geteilt,

Alle Menchen' werden Bruder,

' Wo dein sanster Flugel weilt,

 

a
world ruled by benevolent power.

The chorus chants:

Seid umschlungen,. Millionem!
Diesen Kuss der ganzen Welt!
Bruder—uberem Sternenzelt
Mus ein lieber Vater wohnen,

Man has forgotten his troubles in
the comradeship ‘of Joy, and he’ has
found happiness in ving in a world
direeted’ by a power greater’ “than
worldly power. “He ~ has “ forgotten
himself in, beholding: a power greater than himself, He knows his.true
stature to ,be, small, yet. he believes
his, state to be directed toward some,
ultimate good.. The triumph: of man
through his discovery of a good,
power greater than himself resounds
in. the closing bars of the symphony.

 GHSLE.

‘ ‘ : me oa = ae
je - 4-5 SS

ec

  

    
 
 
  
   
  
   

j

,
   
      
     

d a
Wee te fg

  

 
   
    
  
         

  

     
    
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   

+ fs ‘
ASPs TO

£, re?

ege e Life “No 10.

A}
asl ik oi) afi Cs

st eri

iy :

wige agnd tstel mo » Siu}
;ONAaS val RC

  

  

  

  
   

  
  
   

: 2 i

 
   
  
  
  
 
    
 
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
    

| y ence éf mass x i

he pcos ee as % —. Ora Pro nostrum
i oie ry Exstinetione)
ry Agia rabid lover of nature and her

es food
Ty works, (especially the state known
au nateurel, beloved by all naat. e (2) lovers, we chose this
‘ bia. ‘ | $heincedeid in that field. A new
‘ * society: of ‘nature followers has
s i an af lately: achieved ‘prominence, and all
, “1s C Mers, engineers, prerequisite:
(O.K.,0.K., we just thought we’d|Survey Camp), etc., which latter
P get our liek in ahead of the Coed’s|abounds on the Dal campus, are
ry) EMORY NE TOE CUES Tie B ~ d:-to-the colors, “ere rien

V Vv Vv Pe = os *

And then there’s the story of a The Question: :
tertain business man who eaugl what i you think ofthe Royal
. ssc n. ‘Orden of Shed uffalo?
e Ans} cy
Fool aed Holdwell: halle Socla
F eaite of i ec. but ney be without him—in fac
losing time came he aE e would this colum be?) I, hn
ip the pace any longer, so he went| believe that question could well
» see a doctor. The doctor’s office | answered by another from the Im
yas closed, so Weidecidaisto gol yd )motta] Beard, eth Pard. (Rapidly
he doctor’s home. He rang the bell| Immortal-Barding through innume
d the door was opened by the] able vols.) Ah, yes. Quote: “Coul

or’s wife. The poor man whisp- the soulle of thy grandam i
ed, in his weakened voice, “Is the MInhabit the soulle of a birde?’
tor home?” She replied quickly;| @nquote. “Twelfth Night,” Act 1,
ad in a similar whisper, “No, come | Scene III.
in.” Baward Reckord, U.N.B. 2, 3,
King’s 4, Plowed 3, etc.: Confiden:
tially (very confidentially), confiden:
tially, it extincts.

E. More-is, B,A., M.A., P.A,: Ga
zoot Ideas 124) 400PohiSei Bxerao
dinary,-Postwar Destruction. Yes,
smc
~ VWberPhitiny: (Majoring, Extra!
Taasetaats. H.C. A. 42, Liberal Arts,

qrvative. Actions 1-17, shad
aaa.) sit, (fluttering flutterable
eeyelashes, I just ain’t that Kind of
‘a Gill. Prof. Bennett never told mé

  

 
 
 
   

 

 
  
 

—McGill Daily.
a en ON
_ &| We passed two innocent freshettes
@n the campus the other day, earn' @stly discussing their courses. Said
ne to ’tother: “I sn I'll take Bio
he rabbit from infancy to adultery.”
| Vi vVvuv op

_} A city girl became friendly with a
young farmer while she was- staying: |
im the country. One evening as they
‘walked across the field they saw a| What to do in a case like this. |
20 and calf rubbing their noses H. K. Sere: (And Yellow Leaf,
ace | Maebeth,. Act. V, Se. 3,.1.22. -inglish
“That makes me want to do they; “8serted;—ete-) Ab, the—Buffalo, I
’-sead-the--young-farmery-cast~|.c4n. Lemember..wben .vast.-herds -of
+ lascivious € eyes on his fair eom-| bosom roamed the Canadian plains
anion.
_ “Go ahead,” she replied sweetly,
“it’s your cow.”
Which is not exactly the way we
Figinally heard it).
—Uwo Gazette.

Vy Wee

Just a word of advise to fresh
- ettes, who, if they don’t know .this |, ~
by now, aren’t likely to:

If he parks his little flivver,
Down beside the moonlit river,
hpnd you feel he’s all a-quiver,

, '
if Baby, he's a-wolf! and we mean it!

eee

SS FASE 4K ES ER sR eS

   

: :
ss

 

   
  

a EEpenEEeuIE

 

iid

 

The Christmas nolidays were eventful here im the city. On a hunting
trip Russ Webber was eaught with
his pants down by a little rabbit—

 

‘If he says you’re gorgeous lookin’
And your dane ‘eyes, Ret Bah a
   
   
  
      
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
    
   
  

  

_| cookin’ Ge erate ~~ fair with Elaine Coulter, during the
“8 ‘ ain't. Where he’s holidays. But Jacki seems to be in
Re te ge thee strong again.’

: se pro

‘George Smith and Clegg Hall
went’ to- Truro for a few days, renewing Surveying, Camp .acquaintances. George also called on Kay,
Archibald. Who_ said he, could for~
get her? «

Hay ¢

onl en are haSie to life
with the appointment of Olga Moun;
an as Drawing I instructress. Cliff}
\Gpaye Hath sséémz' ype [just “have ‘tdlearn
ev ore over again — from Olga,
of course. Kenny Wilson has
Baby, you're the wolf! Oa too. He won't Bee
_uWe. aff mh | him short. Cou

é heard about Jean Cof
wt mat hone ae fanaa De)

) y
; ori

 

 

i his SPs are’ strong fie!
d he stirs the gypsy in you,
s you want him close aagain you,

   
  
    

 

:

. i
¥
%

ee eee ee

       

    
 

a ie sah r Say S f, a

Ht ber | mi. Be

) ny rf bis i, re.
ei ) 
: em ghee nn ea we) 2

i

.Mac, Campbell renewed an old af- |

     
  

(Inspired by last seokb edition of
the Gazette, or more, properly, the
“Dalhousie Zeitung,’ was,our Record. Editor, who has, come forth with
his.own highly imaginative impression of how his “In. the Groove”
column would appear under such circumstances. Any similarity is of
course ., . Ed.)

All students, will assemble. tomorrow night on the ball field for the
Smashing of the Records.. Every
copy of “Der Fuehrer’s Face” in the
city will be smashed.. Anyone found
harbouring a copy of this vile antiNazi propaganda, will be prosecuted

The Gym) store juke, box will immediately .be stocked with @ sufficient..supply.. of .“suitable” records.
Especially. popular is. Steve. Wreckendorf’s smooth, very danceable rendition, of the “Horst Wessel Song”.
Other recordings and songs permitted are “The, Quisling Bounce”, and
“My Devotion” with it’s thetliing new
lyries ,written by the German Institute of. Information.

The 10th regiment of the Occupation Army will present a band coneert next Sunday night in Goebbels
Park; formerly known as. the Public
Gardens., Opening the program will

i|be Let’s. Be, Buddies’, the song

which is being featured: this month
by the Kultural, Society. of. Occupied
Canada,

The Dramatic Club of Dalhousie
University wishes. to, announce its
presentation of a new play, “In This
Life” written. by ,. Capt... Horder,
formerly of the Bayreuth Players
and now of the GII.. An original
and- compelling drama jt stress the
true greatness of German people and
the glory of their past history and
the true good feeling they bear towards their Canadian friends. Reich
Minister Goering has on many occasions, declared, ‘‘We awnt. to be
friends”,

Word has-just. come through that
a new shipment of the latest records. has. arrived in, the . city..for

‘}immediate distribution to the music
| stores and juke boxes, which, like

everything else are under the direct
controk of the German Institute of
Propaganda. Among the. selections
are “Auf Wiederschen”, and many
of the charming German waltzes.
The Musical Club has annuonced

_|the appearance of Miss. Lorelei

Stunz in.a program of selected German Lieder Music lovers will be
thrilled.

 

|Magouan Addresses

Economics Classes

“Remember, évery man must stand
trial before-the bar-of-his.own conseienees-and no guilty-man-is-ever
acquitted,” ‘said Professor Magouan,
ef the Human Relations department
of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, in an address to Dalhousie students last~ Thursday. He
came to the University last week
to speak to, the Personnel Group

then assembled, and was ‘persuaded
| by Prof. Maxwell. to” give a short

talk to students in. the various EcoRomics classes.
| Prof. GPT pointed \out that

in labor t be a
tri iS anethoe we

4-—|.nations._.were—written,— Simms

a
ba

5 Mil

3 oa
FT aT T 4 Pad =< -4 ii
iAij@s: ae
oo eT ——

TL bBie Wes a pay young blade by
hitie Hamelé: “Dstgies Simms. Bur

2 Liase! Dederntoer' ‘he becknie’ a hermit,

ind ifex thres long weeks ‘the fail
> O¥Gnung | Taty new HOt “whether

3] Simms! were vig or dékd! And,'in

naive’ godd ‘faith,’ shé believed him
dead, rather than! he were! alive and
yelinaglected) he?) Bt After examreturn¢d-from, his ermitagedin the une

déworld! ands ugh .wWeariéd,» he
made his way toward |the{ ndtthern
quartet of “the “dity t seé “the fait
lady. But Simms was.so weary that
shortly after he arrived. at, her
home he fell asleep even while talking to her.

In vain she sought. to, waken. him,
and at last made shift to, step on
him; .and Simms, .as, if -he, were
merely kissed, stirred not an inch;
How great damage is done by -examinations!

* ES a

Now from the. dissecting room
comes the sound of sweet singing.
The team of Hollis and Saunders,
magistri scalpellorum, charms in
duet the love song of Victor Herbert. They keep measure with their
scalpels, and time and tissues fly
with equal joy,

ee

The tension among the students of
First Year Medicine now grows. intense. The great militarist,, Van
Slash-Martin, second in prowess
only. to General Chelou, will attend
class for the first time while in uniform., The stillness is broken as the
Slash \goosesteps into'the Histblogy
Laboratory, (ir the next issue. "6f
the Dalhousie Gazette, Var’ ‘SlashMartin will review the local military
situation.)

+ £¢ &

Last of all to straggle into; sight
are Ken |Hall. and. Wally Thomas;
They have come all..of threethousand miles, to. resume, their, blessed
studies, and ;they.show, the effects of
what .one. may,, kindly) their. their
journey.

Se. ee

But one has not. returned. at,,all.
The, faculty. is, heard .to: lament,
“Where. is. our wandering. boy tonight? . Where is Moore?” (Anyone revealing the position of Moore
will be rewarded abundantly.)

GLEE CLUB

Continued from page One

Fields” offers two substantial roles
which will be filled by Arthur Hartling and Peter Donkin. As yet no
one has been set for the Conven
tional butler’s part.
“Fresh Fields” lingers between
drawing-room comedy and_ broad

slap-stick. The emphasis, however,
is on pure entertainment, since the

fast-moving story concerns the hil- |
arious adventures of a snooty Bel-|
family and _ their |
Australian |
Decidedly “escapist” en- |

gravian London
distinctly
cousins.
tertainment, the production boasts
a highly amusing plot, a “name”
author, and smooth ‘easy direction
by Mrs. Karl C. Clarke. The cast
is more experienced than most
amateur productions, for many ac
dewn-to-earth

tors and actresses have had several |

years before the public.

Bunny Levitz, as prexy of the Glee
Club, will produce the play -.on
February 26th. “Fresh Fields’ is
being done ‘this season in place. of
Noel Coward’s “Blithe Spirit”, or
the Jane Cowl hit “Ring Around
Elizabeth”, neither. of which _was
available for production this year.
Both are still running in New York,
and the Glee Club, though ‘sorry it
can’t offer these plays, belieyés that

an equally fine comedy is béing pro- |

duced.

 

anced delicately on the pivot of Reality. One one end of thé plank sits
Conscience; saying “thou shalt not.”
On the other end!is Desiré; crying
“T want.”, Itis the task of: Wisdom;

‘Every human being has emotions,”|in the centre of (the personality
he said, “and this. fact must be real-| plank,’ to ‘balance, by discrirnination,

ized. ~ ‘Workmen are not machines. *| between the constant conflict of the
Speaking: of the human‘ mind, he| other two.

.

 

vig personality’ toa plank, bal-! matks.

 

 

' Fader’s Drug ‘Stores

  

) HALIFAX

   

 

 

   

 

ii
ey i

  
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

“Hi. Recognize me? I’m one of .
your crowd. You see, I speak for”
Coca-Cola, known, too, as Coke.
I speak for both. They mean
the same thing. The gang
say | look just like Coke
tastes. And you can’t get
that delicious and refreshing

TRADE’ MRK
Delicious and

wait i.

taste this side of Coca-Cola.

xe
Be
y

Nobody else can dupli
cate it.*’

fii ne

ss es Bitaencnnentas Ee
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED a
HALIFAX

DALHOUSIANS ..°.

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES.
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES anit
KODAKS, CIGARS + aia

-KINLEY’S
THE REXALL STORES
490. BARRINGTON ‘STREET LORD NELSON HORMEL E

   
  

     
  
   
     
     

  

CAPITOL —

Monday = Tuesday. - Wednesday

LIMITED
FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX: =

THE NATIONAL FISH CO. |

NOVA SCOTIA

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“The Palm Beach
Story” |

with

CLAUDETTE

COLBERT
*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“Stand By
For Action”

CHARLES LAUGHTON
ROBERT TAYLOR

    

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD (

     
    
     
      
   
   
   
  
   

Nova Scotia )

GARRICK
*

Saturday - Monday -. Tuesday

“MY SISTER EILEEN”
and SHORTS

   
 
  

  

 

 

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday
CAREFUL, SOFT SHOULDERS
“THAT OTHER WOMAN”

 

 
   
 

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“FOREIGN, AGENT”

*

Staartine Monday

“The Silver

Queen”

“HILL BILLY BLITZ”

Thursday: - Friday - Saturday

“GORILLA MAN”
‘PIRATES OF THE PRAIRIES’

OXFORD °
Monday and Tuesday
“THE ALL KISSSED_

THE BRIDE”
“HENRY ALDRICH, EDITOR”

Wednesday. and, Thursday
“CALLING DR. GILLESPIE”
“MRS. WIGGS OF THE
CABBAGE PATCH”

Friday and Saturday

“BERLIN CORRESPONDEN®” ||

 

Starring

BRUCE CHABOT
GEORGE BRENT

 
   

ie Laie

 
   

‘g

 

SPORT - 1 - SCOPE |

_by ED oe

 
 

TTD hh Hine

i + p ~ “Emporium, Pedcant balidl of intellectual giants,

vers, engineers,

 

I
y im
ear fe >
fda: mys.
et a iit
ia AY 2, Mh rel

  

Freshman:
- Senior: Yeah?

ae ae ) and other student nondescripts, some
es comes up ans" a verbal duel worthy of reproduction. A

ae aed days ago, for example, a disillusioned freshman and a

adapted their mutually questionable talents to

the eae game of basketball. The conversation went
like this—

?
I think its a nice game.
Freshman: I was reading in a book where it said that the

: me pa were the first ones to play basketball.
a

Senior: Yeah?

_ fgenior: Yeah?

- Senior: Coffee, Roy!

L tike basketball, too. I am fas| gimpted with it. As 2 matter of fact,
f am go interested I could sit and
leek at it for hours. There is, for
ie @manple, a good deal of truth in
hy _ the theory of the learned freshman.
re. ‘The way they play basketball in the
si‘ gma mpakes me think that the Inss dias came from way back.

 

ai Whe usual practice is to line up
iad two opposing teams, each one with
MWe i a @ferent number of players. The
Ae attempt is to get the whole thing as
reg eue-sided as possible. And then the

ey te Ome cute trick is to slam the ball
ae agsinst the side wall and catch the
_—s rebommd behind the back. This is
4 réally quite deceptive. It also puts
4 a tough surface on the ball. After
OF) this trick wears thin there is always
na the opportunity to drop-kick the ball
ry ar, im the general direction of the
nH fasket. This is a very clever play

if well practised. Should the ball

happen to be floored the simplest

manner of putting it back into play

is to dribble it along. Shooting off

ts Goor is another deceptive stunt.
ka AR of which are quite contrary to
Ne the tiles of the game, which probaar. Wig means about as much to the
irs emwwrage basketball devotes as a

: ... and that the modern game is merely an
of the Indian forerunner.

freshman: What do you think about that?

mentary on why we lose basketball
games as one could find. It might
be helpful if a few of the more
intelligent students would explain to
their fellows the simple practices of
the game outlined in the rule-book,
and if the whole bunch found time
to realize that basketball was designed as a scientific sport and not
as a form of modified warfare.

Elsewhere on this page is reproduced a letter from the Physical
Education Department announcing
the formation of several voluntary
classes in a number of fields. Coach
Ralston offers to the aspiring candidates a wide variety of training that
ranges from Social Dancing to JuJitsu. Yeah, I know what you’re
thinking. “Burnie” is not so clever
after all. The way things are sometimes done around here there’s
might little difference between Social
Dancing an Ju-Jitsu.

One thing I think has been left out
that a good number of students
might be interested in. And that’s
skiing. About this time of year
there’s a very suitable training
ground right outside the door. Take
the daring slope in front of the
Science building. Maybe we could
all learn how to short shalom, fishbone, “peel off,” and the gentle art
of falling gracefully on our... arm
| thie thing it’s a fee bet to assume| pits. What about it, Burnie?
F. they were

thet they knew what

 

line from lead
¥, f ecenHEe tests

are
and pose SG és the apexe

a ebuny'deoet.
AND YO oan LOSE a

arias onthe tek ohne

offers to refund the
fall unole

Eagle MIRADO proves the
| finest pies you have ever used,
TAK Ber ene cee
oot and pee how a

 

 

Anyway, there is good reason for
a number of students taking up a
side-interest. Maybe “Mackie” Campbell could try the Social Dancing
and “Hank” Johnstone the Archery.
Who knows? Maybe the refined
group who assemble in Roy’s will
henceforth assemble in the lower
gym to take up Danish Gymnastics
and Pyramid Building. It might be
a good idea at that. No doubt a
good deal of Scotch and -water has
passed under your bridge since December. A nice way to get that
certain feeling all over again is to
take up Tumbling.

One Moment Please

It has recently been announced
that Anne Macklie is appointed to
the position of Co-Editor of ‘Pharos’
the Dal Year Book.

 

 

 

Seniors who have not yet had their
pictures taken are urged to do so
at once. There is a serious shortage of special portrait film in Halifax studios, and the sooner all
pictures are taken, the easier will be
the production of the eager-awaited
Year Book.

 

On Saturday night at eight o’clock
the Dalhousie Music Club will meet
at 10 Tower Road. The purpose of
the meeting is to lay down program
of activities, and to elect president,
and other executive officers. A surprise musical program will occupy
the remainder, and, it is hoped the
greater portion of the evening. Those
students who would like to join the
organizations, should refer to the
notices on all Bulletin boards, and
ate-asked to sign their name to one
of the attached lists.

 

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

370 sein GARDEN ROAD
, B-9154

se

 

  
   
 

es ™ : pes 7? zr vty
ee te eee Fare,
+ 7S F ies ed a is 7% ny ive \

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

t\Cubs Meet Army at “Y”, Tigers In
Gym Tangle With Navy Set. Night

Both Dalhousie basketball teams see action tomorrow
night as the Cubs tangle with the Army quintette at the Y.M.
C.A., and the Tigers meet Navy here at Studley. The intermediate game starts at seven, and the senior at eight.

The collegiates have started their season later than other
teams in the league, but have shown exceptional ability, especially for the seniors, in their starts to date. Flooring one of the
smallest squads to ever go into action, Tigers took R.C. A. F.
over the hurdles in their first game of the season. Minus almost all of last year’s starry group, Dal refuses to take any
short odds for it.

Everyone out to support the team!

At 52; Lectures Onl
’. COVERAGE

The U.A.T.C. with 52 members of
By the Editor

 

 

the O.T.C. tucked under its wings,
commenced training this week, with
the first lecture period on Tuesday
night. Pilot Officer R. H. Comeau,
former Acadia student, is the Ad
 

U.N.B.—tonight Dr. D. C. Harvey
Provincial archivist, will speak beoie : fore the student assembly of this
ministration Officer, and the Order-| University at their annual Founders

ly Room will be in the Science Day celebration. He is to deliver
building. Lecture periods will be of the Founders Day address. One of

three hours duration two nights a| th, interesting features of the proweek, Tuesday and Thursday. (The gram will be the annual presenta
0.T.C. ee get into Shirreff Hall tion of quit-rent to His Majesty King
these nights without competition George VI, to be received by the
from the mechanized avians). Lieutenant-Governor. This  cere
The drill given by the O.T.C. was mony marks the granting of extenconsidered sufficient by the Air/sive lands to the university by the

Force authorities. But there will be| British government in the early days
two weeks summer camp, immedi-|of the province.

ately after examinations (“summer- Vevey?

time” is the same for both authori-| MeceGILIL—students at the univer
ties — goosepimples and frostbites).| sity are devoting their energies to

Arrangements are being made to! bringing in books or magazines for

give the boys their blue plumage. j|the servicemen and servicewomen.
A minimum of four books or magazines is sought from each student.
Technical books are in great demand,

Voluntary Physical many people apparently asking for
ae them who gave up the chance of a
Training Classes college education to go into the
army. Well, they’ll probably get
The Physical Education Depart-| thom. By the way, have you a copy
ment realizing more than ever dur-|>¢ Hamm and Leggs “First Princiing this war time period the great/pjes of English”. Of a college
need for better health and national physics. The boys love them.
keeping fit programs will sponsor V Vv
instructive classes in the various| mMeMaster—three universities, inskills and games to which all will cluding this one, have removed
be warmly welcomed. It is the de-|«mediocre” women students from
sire especially to teach those who! classes although no official regulahave not had previous experience in | tions regarding coeds have been
any physical activity of which they promulgated. Western University is
should elect to take part. This pro- awaiting the results of examinations.
gram will afford an opportunity to! at Toronto, no decision will be
the mass of students who would like | ;eached until the Senate meets. Men
to play and enjoy physical activities, | with unsatisfactory records will have
to participate. Through free play|their names handed to a War Serrecreational skills will be taught| vices Boards but will not be asked
which will be of physical and health- | 4, leave the University unless called.
ful value during and after college | the registrar announced since it
life. would not be improbable if there
All are aware of the health, edu-| vere a government conscription of
cational, corrective and recreational | women, they will be dealt with in
values which are obtainable through | the same manner as the men.
physical activities. There is ample MPa AS
evidence to prove that those who| Washington—the first of several
exercise moderately and consistently | meetings to select American colleges
really develop a greater reserve and | to be utilized under the policies and
enjoy better bodily health. The in-| regulations under which thousands
dividual who builds up a greater re-| of selectees will be trained as specisistance to fatigue comes to the end |alists was held here by a committee
of the day and the end of the week|of leading educators appointed by
much less exhausted and much less|the War Manpower Commission.
susceptible to the type of infection | Meanwhile, college men flocked back
that fastens upon the fatigued per-|to campi for the opening of the
son and this increased indurance re-| winter term, many of them uncertain
sults in an ability to maintain a|of future plans, but were generally
higher standard of work for a longer| advised by educators to go ahead
period of time, so essential for the|with their studies regardless of
war effort. He who trains his heart | whether they belong to the Enlisted
—and, as you know, the heart is| Reserves or are vulnerable to Selecsimply a muscle like those of the! tive Sedvice.
arm, and is trained and developed
by proper exercise—builds up a reserve against emergencies, whether
of physical effort or of severe infection.

—_—_- —

 

 

 

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP

The classes will be held regularly Four Experienced Barbers

and at times when your time table
permits for the express purpose of
learning skills, conditioning and
keeping fit, leading to better health
for the individual. Make it a point
to attend one or two of these classes
per week in the listed activity you
are particularly interested in. See
your Physical Director, B. A. Ralston a8 soon as possible to arrange
for your schedule of classes.

The following activities are available to you:

For Sporting
Goods of
Finest Quality

and a Complete
Music Service

Call on

Boxing, fencing, archery, wrestl- e

ing, basketball, tumbling, softball,
corrective physical training, pyramids, tratk and field class, touch
rugby, indoor soccer, calisthenics,
volley-ball, Danish gymnastics, Art
of Ju-Jitsu, badminton, European
handball, social dancing, swimming
(beginners and life saving).

PIANOS - CHURCH ORGANS
SHEET MUSIC —- RECORDS
MUSIC SUPPLIES

 

- . kk ~

The best
chocolate made

eis’

 

 

Basil Winters

LIMITED

383 BARRINGTON

&

Now Showing

MEN’S SUITS,

OVERCOATS
AND FURNISHINGS

EATON'S

Shop at EATON’S for

Men’s and Young Men’s
SMART FELT HATS

Srueet your new felt at

EATON’S! ... Choose from
various shapes uta for men
and young men—all well made
of good quality felts. A choice
of seasonable shades that should
please most tastes.

EATON Prices, each

3.75 * 7,50

EATON’S Men’s Wear Department—Main Floor

STREET

“T. EATON Coe

 

 
