os — =

is aL ae , zy et
A ctor
\Cters |
eae, i 7

       

Hi my

ae
fit

Dalhousie Gazette

HALIFAX, N. S8., MARCH 5, 1943

      
  

 

 

ee

dicine-Backed Candidates Sweep Poll:

Munroe Day will open formally at
three o’clock in the afternoon. The
program is as follows:

  

7

 

 

*
t

SUPPORT

tion will be taken for the CanaJian Aid to Russia Fund.

5. Skit: The Shooting of Dan
McGrew.
6. Finale. Dalhousie Hymn.

8.45 p.n.—Presentation of the Connolly Shield by Professor
C. L. Bennet.

9.00 p.m.—Presentation of Awards
by Vice-Pres. Tom Patterson.

9.30 p.m.—Introduction of the New
Students’ Council.
Short Addresses by:
President of the Council
for 1943-44.
President of Glee Club
for 1948-44.

First, we must remind all students
that this year Munro Day is coupled
with a War Services Day. What are
yf the War Services? The War SerY Afternoon

3.00 p.m.—Basketball Game.
Girls vs. Boys.
Major Hogan.

3.30 p.m.—Demonstration.
Unarmed combat.
Fencing.

Boxing.

4.20 p.m.—C. 0. T. C. Demonstration
Squad, under command of
2/Lt. Swansburg.

4.40 p.m.—Tug of war.

5.00 p.m.—Kampus Kuiz Kontest.

This is the highlight of the after- fi
noon show, DON’T MISS IT. Law, Poe ee
Medicine, Engineers, Pine Hill and)... phar.

Shirreff Hall will be represented. | 19-09 p.m. to 1 a.m.—Dance.

vices comprise the International
Students Service—for assistance to
students in those countries where
war has deprived them of a formal
education; the Red Cross—an organln ization whose merits cannot be quesa tioned; and the Canadian Aid to
Russia Fund—our magnificent ally.

Your Students’ Council asks you
to remember on Munroe Day this
year those who are fighting in order
that you may study, dance and love
—as free men. .

As part of our program we ask all
students to brine books, which they
have finished with, so that the men
of the services may find pleasure
and entertainment from them during

Referee:

 

die ot hours. tae gtlan - a ns Professor Kuiz will be Webster ae peeve re and his 10posit box arranged for those who will |«],fabitant” Macdonald. Winning e orchestra.
ree: REMEMBER THE BOOK |team will receive a prize and, no Dalsters please take notice of that

doubt; competition will be keen. announcement about Jerry Naugler

and that ten piece orchestra of his.
Chaperones will be:

Prof. and Mrs. John Willis
Prof. and Mrs. S. C. Saunders

Again, as part of the show, a
booth will be set up in order that
those who wish may assign their
caution deposits for the benefit of
the War Services. Probably, it won’t

Evening

7.45 p.m.—Address .by the Russian
Vice-Consul, Kutsenko.
8.00 p.m.—Glee Club Show.

 

be more than $1.25 to help those who
are protecting YOU.
\ Lastly, there will be a booth in
im the Gym, attended by some beautiful
maidens, asking you to buy a grab.
Proceeds are for the War Services.
Surely, 25c is worth YOUR FREE
The Dalhousie Review

1. Opening: Chorus—‘Won’t You

Come Up To Dalhousie’’.

of Mine”.

38. Skit: Roy’s Store.

2. Chorus: “Dalhousie Dream Girl

Prof and Mrs. C. L. Bennet

Roy’s Store will be open All Day

for the convenience of the students.

Drinking of Spirituous Liquors on
Dalhousie Grounds or Premises is

 

Back: Allen, Finnamore, Boswell, Hartline.

-_

Front: Cox, Donkin, White, Archibald, Hopewell.

 

   
  

 

 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

 

 

 

(6, DOM. During this number a silver collec- Strictly Prohibited.
' fi ie aie Tt raha Fields’’ En- Pees pene Ay be pro| claimed a “smash hit”.
7 , ® » One-Act Pla Ss ° . | The curtain was raised to reveal a
charming room with properties exci oys The Popularit harmi ith. propert
Gouncil Elections — Bir: OFA Smash Success jailer zn
a |The audience was forewarned of part
| .
he plot by the financial comnnoll rd 3 of he's .
7 President: Med. Dent. Law A.&S. Eng. Com. Total ®—— : Co one Awa , _ Fresh Bields’’, by Ivor Novello, | Paints of ee ee
SD ass:s 1 7 19 . ° or the third time this year, the ; Saas pe a S ecen ike Sh eect aeges uae
\ Hag 4 3 8 86 73 9 8 FE he third ti thi tl Dall ee eo hae ‘ ei ie was “tops”, and iihether or not he
“~ ‘Patterson .... 164 18 67.4100 3 4 295 Engineering Careers — [xymnasium Sgn geen ag ae abc play itself, as a story, was neither |had had previous experience in carVice-President; wee ok Yee x Een. ee a comedy ‘or 2 tra ed ; under the [Tying those heavy, cup-laden trays,
Johnston 3 4 Se 44-24 5 104 In War And Peace two more one-act plays will be pre-|7. cient and able direction of Mrs, |Mr. Allen handled ‘the role with the
ele ean i 9 4 1 114 44 5 177 Cam ed A B a of eh rere pene Karl C. Clarke, and with a cast |finesse of a finished character actor.
MacKi 166 13 1 23 6 3 199 por t anquet to the best-one-act play presented |Suited to their roles, “Fresh Fields” |Catherine Finnamore took the role of
wes i" «“ each year. Prof, C. L. Bennet will|i2 2 language applied to many a| (Continued on page four)
. i. Medicine: You in Canada at college have erie UA ap cory foe = i gp
\ MacDonald 137 certain responsibilities and you are Bet a me ee and, panes a
— veee T e “ s . hae i : )_|parted valuable advice and construc1 Maddin’.. 68 vr bs . oe a D.B Uidoay, of Ceck tive criticism, will award the Shield Pp Dalhousie Institute of
MS Be on eit 100 ; Ruse ‘Aircraft, “and when you grad- to the play of his choice. So far this D E G) &® Publi Opinion
Dentistry: “he you are privileged to use that eye eG es ae fens a CivPpua
nowledge for the greatest good of i AL aa
| Bagnall trees 13 the steep eh Pees Naat”. Ad-| But tonight, two more comedies ahs
\ Pv: :.,.:: 8 ‘6 dressing the annual Engineering |Will be presented. The faculty of DO YOU THINK THE ,PRESENT RUSSIAN DRIVE
‘a Law: Banquet in the Lord Nelson Hotel |Arts and Science present “Coming WILL BE STOPPED IN THE SPRING?
| Me Sinn ee (1h we, A 15 last Friday night, he stressed the en- |Of Age” by Stanley Kauffman. Di- gh: P ’ jo
Sitfiley, «Ge: ma J tl gineering aspect of the war front. |Tected by John Crosbie of the CBC, The majority of students are quite confident in the continuing success
Sitesiic, “All of us have brothers in the ae wey SG peers boy of the present Russian campaign. Many stated that the Germans had
nate ' este ne oe eee sc i ee The at a — Sotloice ¢ Pater lost too many men, and were otherwise too weakened to be able to offer
4 77 Ss x; ae 1 ; es aff ats raaiats > > sYWhnyYresce - - a+ +ha - o >
, Mentha hos, Hf HH 97 ur aiutics’” he noted. “Your ae Donkin, Abe Sheffman, Helen Mac- effective resistance, and they expressed doubt that the Germans could
yy Rac fei Nae 80 is to go out in the world with the Kay and Arthur Hartling. In strong launch a successful counter-offensive as they did last year.
, Bey OfK an A 58 knowledge yoo ar going now to fou tas ae way" by Plalie In actual percentages, 45% said that they did not think the Russians
; , dog 9h wie 0 2 “8 nis ws serve not only in Canada and the ’ ra 1 roul » gt , A large minority. 84%. were Eg ‘mistic. ¢
y ie Sutherland.... ... ee a 116 British Buanine but all humanity be- Johnson. The cast includes: Lynn ere ee an er a at es ld ae eet ee ipa at |
, tt cause that is what we are fighting | Marcus, Siriol Lewis, Eileen Phinney | ©*PT&SS SE ae ees bare eee e halted.
} a si for”. 43 '|Mavis Bimson, Renee Garrett and Another 11% qualified their answer by saying that it would be slowed
aughan...... ... AP oa a ‘ Macneill A Visitor ere coe A clever and ab- down, but not stopped, although, according to the’ wording of the question,
7 White. .. BN: Ye: fa #9 H oe ‘ _One of the most interested of the |5° at ae 18 S eoutstanding fea-|this should be considered a negative vote. As usual, 10% remained unif PATO. eink. « ¢ ae hy 94 visitors was Prof. Murray Macneill, | ‘Ure © ee remeye decided or at least non-committal
heey Mitclicll...).. ... x x 70 up to this year of the Mathematics} Following a popular Dal custom, ie js aneeink
Sophomore— Department of Dalhousie. “In the|there will be dancing after the play rider
Phin 91 past I thought I was invited to these | until midnight. WHAT SHOULD BE THE MAIN TASK
: Lh a a o. ; dinners as a sort of mellowing for ene. OF THE NEW COUNCIL?
Allison...... ; : i6 the spring exams, but this year I ; e . Or a
Rishleevine. have nothing to say about them”, he i Since the candidates did not present any platform, it was thought
a . a 43 noted impishly. “I had hoped to Music Club worthwhile to ask the students what they thought were the main duties
| i : “te extend my four years as a prof to ? of their representatives. Most of those asked did not have an immediate
\ Bamtes ses. s es o 50 years”, he said. Holds Meetin answer in mind, but some valuable suggestions were obtained. M f
\ _ MacQuarrie... ... a Baht eh 52 Prof. Maecneill’s attendance at the g , Peart : ets SUgESS yee, WEEC~C Laine - BORE. 2
Commerce: , banquent has been the longest! since the boys were in favour of the extension of sports. The girls favoured
i Gan a fi first attending in 1907. He pointed sig enjoyable meeting of the|the emphasis of dramatic acivities and social affairs. Some suggested the
urchill-Smith .. ras 7 * 3 out that his whole career has been |Music Club was held last Saturday | main duty of the Council should be to buil i > spiri
Smith ‘ SHant Lenching engingere though not |@venine at Mrs. Carleton Stanley’s y e Council should be to build up a feeling of college spirit,
BEM haces cas el en 7 c ’ ; : cose s+ | Which is sorely lacking on the campus.
AA one himself. That was not strictly |Over_ thirty members were present. | Y'°" 2 | Se
| D.A.A.C.: in the line of apology, for one of hin The first half of the programme was rhe housing problem was cited by some as being of prime importance,
\ | McGill pupils was a young man recorded and consisted of two Moz-|and deserving attenaion of the Council so that better facilities could be
: MaclIvor.... 116 17 20 38 27 5 223 named Andy MacNaughton, whose |2!tS; the 40th Symphony, and P 1ano'| provided for the students retuyning next year
A Rogers. .. 38 3 9 63 44 a 15 army right now is the dagger point- Concerto in B-flat major. After this cael Cie ,
Lm oe hans 5 SA ak iis beast ie Becks a supper was served by Mrs. Stan- Some said the main function of the new body should be “to provide
| = ce-Pres.— | ’ ley. ‘dates’ for Dal’s lonely hearts.” Forrest Campus was not quizzed this
| 5 Bauld. ‘ice eee 10 8 22 26 7 130 patie : Toasts The chief feature after supper was | week.
bv Bl) Campbell... 71 10 6 72 49 9 210 rof. Douglas, giving an answer |a recital by Lionel Guravich on violin :
Oe tit eal. to the toast to the University,|accompanied by Harry Zappler on | pete ‘ , ; .
est belt Pape a 90 12 12 37 43 stated “the University is a home,|piano. This was the first attempt to DO HALL GIRLS SAY “GOOD NIGHT” MORE
i he sad tenes | i 201 united by truth seeking”, and quoted |give a short recital. INTERESTINGLY THAN OTHERS?
ks ee Su erland.. 40 8 4 . 59 32 3 146 John Buchan’s “Don’t let us only be-| The final item was Beethoven’s 7th This question, suggested by one of Dipol’s weekly victims, proved tc
dy _ Glee Club: come technicians, mellow our exact|Symphonv. The meeting closed at}). o.+ stad) Secs ae & a ee
Pon scientists” . . . Carl Little, to the |11.30 p.m. e extremely one-sided. Some of the boys were afraid of committing
: | 15 15 106 98 6 278 University, “Never spend wherever themselves, and pleaded complete ignorance of the subject Those who did
“a 5 3 77 we go such happy days as here”... . answer seemed, for some reason or other, to be extremely prejudiced to| 45 7 178 ee up, aia Lae \ eps tails we lose”... R. C.| wards Hall girls.
a ; ession, “We have our heads to|Dowell, to the professors “although bat . é
(15 16 140 54 9— 338 think with and the ends of our there are lots of government ae Epc eehee BISIORSY nr, esd ee Hall girls bad sob Gree
es Ae nA ad spines to sit on . . . success depends to sign, the importance of the pro- the proper technique of saying au revoir. Only 9% favoured the Hall
sy eri on which we use the most. Heads fessors is not emphasized enough”, girls on this question, while 8% remained undecided.

   
 

  
LJ
0)
eT

 

 

2 a ee ee
ee

 

Pe) a oe ma Mt
v4 4 es," PP SeGL SK hoe hola ated ee de samnghes scans McClea vt
siness Manager eee Sede eo by e/kle wie es phase tele é's febster Macdonald

I eee sig eens seen oh kaw ees shines POa Shields
Drees Vea ae Uh 5) ite Donkin
itor OU SINR The iG REN Rt os Pp |, Morris
Edi or Bibipnteseeesed daa vedssedtvees sie David tone.
and Exchang «chang a ee urie son
ii¢ Editor ERAT a RR a ce et: anal Oland
WRBRGEY os Lunds Warlea bated «ean ilies a aolleen Phinney
pie a emer Ae CNS dh ie Funt
Lea) ibs (arate emmy boul dll baer che), Gi. ay ween: Phinney

Funt, Joyce Harvey, Kay Cox, James CampBlaine Hopewell, Aneeta Goodman.

  

    

 
 
  
   
  
 

7 :
weet ew eee

« Cb he, ee
:

  
    

= .

 

THE VICTORS—SO WHAT!!!
1e elections have passed into history, and the candidates
1eir call to action. Next year’s council has been chosen:
lots have been cast—for whom? This year, for some
reason, the pleasant custom of a student forum at
h the candidates would outline their platforms, was tossed
Before there is a fervent yell set up for the democracy
has been lacking in the electioneering, it is well to exgovernment of the Dalhousie student body.
is nothing quite so boring or shocking in student

 
  
  
  

on the records to be bought for the gym store and the
ng seating question.
> voting at council meetings has always been unanimous.
e voting at all the meetings one attends (church societies,
lent clubs) is unanimous. is is a great system. The solum to eyery problem gradually filters out of the different
ms, the final motion receiving the approbation of all.
Whatever the reasons for council unanimity, the unalterle fact faces one that candidates do not mean very much.
That is to say, you could have either of the electioneers at
uncil, and the internal machinery of Dalhousie politics would
on ‘

  
   

_. There is no reason for it to do otherwise. Conservatism
“has been the main point of Dalhousie for a long, long time.
_ The councilmen do not veer from this strict pattern of conserva_ tism. The Chinese, “What my esteemed father did, I do too”,

| holds well here. AW ames 7

Me e council-aspirant faces anonymity inside this functioning body. So the apparent conclusion is that it does not.matter

|. who is elected, outside of the President.

| —_—s im an earlier editorial, we condemned the lack of Arts and

se Science voters onto the ability of the candidates to face the

| campaign without a platform. We suggested more of the old| time “Medicine Show” tactics with its juggling, and a pianst

_ playing two instruments at the same time, as advertisement

for the product.

i, Ps _ The same still holds true. However, not all the blame is to
_ be put on the candidates for not facing the voters; the latter do
eh not seem to care anyway. And the candidates can’t seem to

put up any greater platform than the “All that is best for
uhousie, I stand for”.

Bh Naa GREATEST HONOR

Next Tuesday, at the Munro Day evening show, with the
u sual awards and presentations, will be given the very coveted
Jimmy Honour Award, to the graduate most like in
yentleness, devotion to duty and scholarship, the late James

| Oe etl ‘ re

  
   
  
  

1
ri
na
iia

weir

 

 
 
 
   

    
 

"~ . Maleolm was the student personifying this ideal which
a forms the cornerstone for the Award. He was five years at
aa ‘Dalhousie, graduating in Arts in 1903. The following years he
ip returned for Theology to Pine Hill, and lost his life in an effort

au

 
  

i

1--Fred ©. Jennings, Gertrude W. Hempill,
33—Charles Anderson, Walter C. MacKenzie, George C. Thompson
— 1984- ~ Vayne McKie, Potter Oyler
_  1985—Bertha Atherton, Fred Wigmore

6—Elizabeth Ballem, Helen Nelyea, Ernie Richardson, Harry Sutherland
I 37—Gordon H. Thompson

Thomas A. Goudge

}

 

  
     

  

DAL OFF HOURS

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

ITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE
_ 73 COLLEGE STREET

Stud ni S who do not desire a complete course in any of

  
     

 
 

  

  

  

Courses are admitted as General Students.

ning Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
9.30 i - Tuition $5 per month

RTHAND AND TYPEWRITING .

_ ?
f

i a.
; : a a
} a \ Loy eas
Pape i + 1 INS R'
« UA GIS ‘ , hs
A i i "1 “al
L) é }
; leek a
3 “', ein a
7
vay oT a a
P Sod Ree ae é
; + z
+ ’ aids ~*~ > 4
2 ae
= 4
'

 
     
   
       

 

    
 

i
Tig

be valuable aid in future years.

  
   
 

   
 
 

Any Day _—Tuition counts from date of Registration
Be 5: vA , 4 |

  
  

; 4 é t ae ia
ee ey J Be iL Pie’ « hit ,
a ee, ’ ea i} wi ip ake
nh 7 ; f i} A ty rah fgph ¥* ; aay rt.
ie se UA mr Ty it
en os h at Me vy rt | a vi aa ; XLS * i ‘
ay | as

A ieee oo ae

as a
i Wee

 

ae
iy agal A

  
      
  
  
  
 
 
 

   
  
 
  

“Do you realize what you are doing?"
‘Sure, lighting a Sweet Cap”

  
 
   
  
 

 
 

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

  

FARMERS’ MILK

Is Stimulating .. . It Peps You Up!

|

( we

| “TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

/ Pens “st bs! y 4 " teh Thy

 

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

56% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

MacLeod - Balcom
LIMITED
0
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements
i}

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

       

  

 
 

  
     
   
 
  

 
 

THE

FLOWER SHOP

37 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX

Phone B-7133

 
     
    

 

 

The Lure of

Precious Stones
For thousands
mankind has
precious stones.
They are precious because
they combine beauty to
charm, durability to preserve the beauty and
rarty to keep it above the
commonplace.
A visit to Birks will tell
its own story:

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

After any Show

p OF 6 46: te

Before any Meal

Think of...

of years
treasured

The

Green Lantern

 

Dalhousie Wniurersity
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal. Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A.,_B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History,

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

| Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 

 

  
 
   
     
   
  

 

(To Dr. Theodore

 
    
   
   
    

  

     

~ Ss —S ~~

A BOOK

  
  
 
 
   

  

Doublday, Doran

    

  
 

Mr. Raddall will be no stranger
to those who have read his short
stories in the Saturday Evening
Post. He was born in 1903 at the
quarters of the British Army School
of Musketry near Folkestone, England, where his father was a machine gun instructor. He was ten
when his family moved to Halifax,
N. S., because of his father’s transference to the Canadian army. He
now resides at Liverpool, N. S.

“His Majesty’s Yankees” is Mr.
Raddall’s first novel. And it is a
good one. it is a vivid and realistic
tale of Nova Scotia during the
American Revolution. Nova Scotia,
as the author depicts it in the 1770’s
was so predominantly Yankee in its
origins, and to his judgment, so
much in sympathy with the rebel
cause that it was through no fault
of her people that this province remained within the British Empire.
This opinion will shock many people
who pride themselves on Nova
Scotia’s answering loyalty and support of the British Crown.

Battle with the Indians, deadly
divisions within families, press
gangs jn the streets of Halifax, the
seige of Fort Cumberland, spies and
rebels and loyalists, government officials and contractors growing
wealthy on government money—all
these make a colorful romance. Facts
and fiction are so skillfully woven
that the Nova Scotian of 1770-80
comes alive again.

The story is told in the first person by the hero, David Strong, who
is seventeen in 1774. This device
enables us to see Nova Scotia
through his eyes and to realize how
his feelings change as he becomes a
Nova Scotian instead of a Yankee.
In the beginning we meet David
hunting with two Indians Peter and
Francois. Mark, David’s eldest brother, is captain of his father’s vessel the Nan, Luke is mate, and John
is a clerk. Their father, Matthew
Strang had come to Nova Scotia as
one of Gorham’s Rangers—the men
who chased the Indians, and punished them for their raids on Halifax
and Dartmouth—and later settled in
Liverpool as a merchant. The men
of Liverpool meet at Matthew
Strang’s house to discuss resisting
the King’s edict and the tyranny of
Halifax. John goes to Boston to join
General Gage, and is finally sent to
Halifax with the ragged and ill
equipped Royal Fencible Americans.
Mark and Luke and David are captured by a press gang in Halifax
while they are on their way to fish
at Labrador, but David escapes with
the aid of young Richard Uniacke’s
fists. David returns home. Luke
escapes, furious at the harsh discipline and whippings of His Majesty’s
Navy, and joins an American privateer. In 1775 H.M.S. Senegal came
to Liverpool, ostensibly to protect it
but really to harass the citizens who
were known to be Yankee sympathizers. David hit one of the seamen
who came to raid his home, and fled

  
  
  
       
    
  
  

  
  

  
 

    
       
      
 
    
     
      
  
 
  

   
     
  
     

     
     
      
 
 
   
 
  

 
 

  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

for his life to the woods. In the
dead of winter he reached LaHave

and finally Halifax, where he joins

 

POET BY THE SEA

Goodridge Roberts)

A long white road you’ve travelled
O Poet by the sea, ~

Sunlit, wind-swept flint—gravelled

Soft, rain—kissed ribbon unravelled
From the skein of eternity!

A poet’s path you've walked along
At quiet dusk or dawn
Recording priceless dreams in song
Apart from the rushing busy throng
Through courts of Mammon drawn.

And now beside the fire you bend
Your silver head in hands

he winds that lend

Among the sea-shore sands.

of Acadie
poet still,

Lithe as wind, your songs yet free,

vibrant will.
(By permission of the author

CHARLES ANDREW TUPPER

Halifax, N. S., 24 January, 1943)

/
/

( Slim-tapered to t

( A sweeter melody—to blend
}

/}

) Along the lanes

) You roam a

( As free in beauty as the sea
( As strong in

/

/

y

Y

(Editor: The unusual story behind this poem will follow next week]

 

REVIEW

“HIS MAJESTY’S YANKEES”
by J. H. Raddall

& Co., Inc., 1942. $3.00

(Reading Time—2 minutes 12 sec.)

Uniacke and Malachi Salter and
William Smith in planning to get
Nova Scotia to join her thirteen
sister colonies. He takes part in
Eddy’s seige of Fort Cumberland and
in the fighting on the St. John
River.

The heroine is Fear Bengay, who
belied her name, a daughter of a
royalist merchant in Liverpool, girlhood sweetheart of David. She
marries an English officer and goes
with him to Fort Cumberland. Her
husband is killed in a duel and she
returns to Liverpool.

John and Luke are killed, Mark
and David marry and return to their
father’s home. There the men of
Liverpool, who are ardent Yankees,
discover that they are Nova Scotians
and obtain weapons from King
George to defend their homes from
the privateers of New England. The
die is cast—Nova Scotia will remain within the Empire and win
self-government by another road
than armed rebellion.

Though harshly criticized today
everyone must admit that the Halifax of today is a vast improvement
over the Halifax of 1775 that Mr.
Raddail describes. The Nan anchored in the North West Arm to escape
the press gang. To reach the town
David had a two mile scramble
through the woods to reach the
fields bordering Citadel Hill, Halifax was a wooden corpse huddled
beneath Citadel Hill—a town built
by the army, and deserted because
Gage has its troops in Boston, and
the press gangs prey on the country
folk and fishermen—but soon the
town is to overcrowded by thousands of Tory refrugees, and Lord
Howe’s nine thousand men who
train on the Commons and Citadel
Hill while living on Camp Hill,

Sackville Street descended from a
rutted cart track to a rocky road
bordered with grass and stumps and
littered with garbage. Barrington
Street “was a long wooden valley
of houses and shops with shutters
up for the night. Upon each corner a
lantern flickered on its post like a
small disheartened moon”. There
were beautiful houses—George and
Granville Streets, and society strolled on Sundays in Adlam’s Gardens.
Gottingen and Brunswick Streets
were country lanes bordered with
few farm houses. Citadel Hill was
a sugar loaf hill covered with stumps
and boulders and blueberries and
a straggle of grass grown entrenchnee and a crumbling ditch at the

p.

This novel is more than a story
—it shows the growth of a loyalty
for Nova Seotia alone (a feeling
that will cause trouble at Confederation) and how Nova Scotia was to
remain in the British Empire and
not become the fourteenth star in
the American flag. Nova Scotia was
the only colony to remain true to the
original ideals of the revolution,
self government within the Empire,
and men like Michael Francklin,
Richard Uniacke, and Joseph Howe

(Continued on page 4)

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
     
     

   

282 , oe 1948, Renny tHe )
“new rationing of higher educa-|

7 forecast at the University
rence last January went

to effect ; here today, as stu
a oe apiece mm
ents a

 

rae 2 )
' Dalhousie Vicisowsity.
was expected, a good deal of
sees ih was evident in the first

liy 
er nanobia by the somewhat

7 ,obseure ration technicalities added to

Be

7}

 

&

   
  
  

ant

 

h.

 

\

s

be

the traditionally inexplicable pee
tration, were taken 5

special First-Aid hut set up on ae
campus by members of the UATC
and Boy Scouts for cold compresses
and massage. Older students however, showed a great deal more stoic
self-control, at allowed University
authorities ‘to direct them at will.

Students assembled shortly before
noon in the Macdonald Memorial
Library, which has been taken over
for the duration by the Dalhousie
Rationing Information and Protection Board (known familiarly as the
DRIP). They were addressed by
President Stanley, who spoke from
the special balcony above the counter, near the in ae roof. The
President, a striking figure, one hand
across his chest, the other grasping
a morrocco-bound edition of the
complete Lliad, after a few introductory remarks about college life and
rationing, then launched into his
main address, on the subject of
“Archimede’s Eleventh Law”. (Complete text on page 9).

Registration then proceeded apace.
The system was simplicity in itself.
Students first proceeded to the Morse
Collection room, where they signed
documents proving where they came
from. Directed by special staffmembers, they then went to the
Main Office, where Prof. Bennet interviewed them and passed out prefabricated courses drawn from his
famous hat. From Bennet, students
were shuttled uvstairs to the Library
where they proved their rights to
ration tickets, to the Chem Theatre

’ for a short talk “Ration Books, and

What Every Young Student Should
Know” given by Prof. Douglas. Back
ugh the lower Library door went
nts for the yearly handshake
by the President—then upstairs for
birth certificates, (three engineers,
unable to prove they had been born,
when last seen, were still searching
for a good mother), fo the main
map ead for ration coupons, and finalto the Main Office to register.
Gnily 11 students were lost enroute,
# although three more collapsed later.

Ration coupons themselves, pink
for coeds, blue. for men, with the
Dalhousie crest, (Sadie Hawkins
rampant on a field of artsmen), are
of the kind with which most Canadians have become familiar and need
not be described at length. There
are nine coupons allotted any one
student for the year, each coupon
worth one course for one term, thus
giving any one student 4% full year
courses, or nine half year, or 18 if
taken for two years. English 2,
however, takes two coupons, and
Economics 1 only %, for Artsmen,
or 1/3 for Engineers. For students
using up all their coupons, without

 

 

Ane v2 cD Pye

o hin

Te yan a var ne, SS
ri Ah

The greatest tribute engineers can
bestow on a member of their graduating class is to vote him the Bob
Walters Memorial Award. Founded
three years ago to commemorate the

manly qualities of the scholar,
sportsman and gentleman Robert
Walters, who died in a tragic hunting accident in 1940, the award is
a recognition paid each year to the
engineering graduate who, in the
eyes of his fellow engineers, best
exemplifies these virtues.

This year the award went Graham
Bennett, (above), whom all students
of every faculty agree is fully worthy of the honor. Graham was born
in New Glasgow, N. S., in 1920, and
graduated from New Glasgow High
in 1937. He entered Dal in 1939,
and will graduate this year with the
degree of Bachelor of Science, and
Engineering Diploma.

In his four years at the College
by the Sea, Graham has taken a
more active part in all campus activities, particularly those of the Engineering Society. His work on the
Council of Students has been of importance in giving Dalhousians effective self-government. Star of
this year’s Engineering Interfaculty
hockey team, he has, according to
sage observer Roy, but a single
weakness—women, or rather, as he
corrected his statement, one woman.

getting a satisfactory course, three
extra ones are given for taking
Commerce.

At a special meeting
Faculty, it was suggested some new
courses, coupon-free, might be introduced, with special credits towards a B.A. W.D. (Bachelor of

Arts While Duration) degree.
These included:
Cheerleading 1, 2,—% pt. each
Dr. Payne
Wolfiology 121, 123, 124—-% credit
each—Prof. Cooper
Sleepiology (Formerly Sociology) 1
—1% eredits—Dr. Prince

Gymstore 1, 2, 3, 4, and graduate—
8 eredits—Dr. Atwood.

of the

a hen
Bisset Be et) 5

. "GENTLEMAN

 

ea ya ¥ Ai yale

    

Where Credit is Dew

Having recently raised the question, “Since they give endless credit
lists to the movies, why don’t they do it on the radio?” Here, then, inspired by our favourite soap opera, ,is a product of our fevered imagination: ;

The makers of Parker’s Insoluble Liiver Globules presents the repellant story of Hatty Burdeck, or Soldier’s Life. The title has been
taken from the theme poem of the Royal Canadian Order of the Daughters Who Have Gone On Before, Local number thirteen. The story is
taken from life by Sol Gerfinkle and Mazie LaRue, while the French
Benchwarmers’ Association, Harry Hiccough, president, has supplied us
with factual material used in the script. The poem, “Booze in the Night”,
read during the program, is written by Katrinka Being, and is from her
new anthology, “The Sea-Green in Nature’s Eye”, published by Handin
Pouch, Inc. Tonight you shall hear episode ten, book forty-five.

Background music for this evening’s program has been adapted by
Hava Nuther from the “Ode to a Load” Suite by Pizzkowski. Incidental
musie for the brookside scene has been prepared by Selma Laughingwatter, and our theme song is “From the Hand of the Shy Blue Daughter”.

The sound effects heard on this production are under the supervision
of Porter Bonkin, from the recordings of the Tinny Music Co., Ltd. Special
effects of a ram sunning itself in a patch of rhubarb leaves have been
prepared by Hetty O’Drool, who has also devised the sound-effect of rain

it bs a 1 7 Ser Si pe a TR ete Tt
ae 4 tne | i i Pi, i a= F % ve my
f a ( ‘ron : : ’ " - a" i cf |
uf - , eT i j 8 hy . + ’ ’ 1 7 F
i oo P Ae 1 - ¢ ‘
tl 5 anes) .* 4 tsi r i —. of Niele . alt % ‘ 1 - haf « an
F ; . a 2 ; 1 te he ee 7 J 7 eu 77s
. i rs Le. ae. i Tee ‘ : Ye Fre A
ay _ F ‘ 4a Jj. 905 i f ey
’ : - : a o— a
ae oF) Ye = cient ;
{
‘ 4 d

falling in a snowstorm.

Tonight you shall also hear from Mona Nitwit and Ronnie Sowan, of
the Metropolitan Soap Opera Co., as intermission guests.
Our stars this evening are Effie Bettingwell, who will appear as

Uncle Ben, and Massey Doit as Parker Parker.

You will also hear Laying

Hopeless as Bertha Blinkum, and Mrs. Blockbuster is played by Kanya

Findsamore.
Weals.

The entire production is under the direction of McSneak and

As the scene opens in the Blinkum household we hear Bertha saying:

BERTHA:“ Uncle Ben, is that you?”
BERTHA: “Uncle Ben—O, Uncle Ben—Uncle Ben,

“Oh, I’m sorry, I didn’t know.”
ANNOUNCER:

(Noise outside).

 

(Pause).

“We’re very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but since

our time is up we are unable to bring you the remainder of the program.

Tune in tomorrow and find out what

Uncle Ben was doing. Until tomor
row this is Thirsty Quickandsome, bidding you goodnight for the Irritai
ing Broadcasting Company.

 

T -SQUARE

The bangnet was the big talk of
the drafting room this week of
course, and there were many questions being asked but very few being
answered.

T

Those who knew him were glad to
see Prof. Meneill there at the banquet again. We hope that he enjoyed it much as we did.

T

Most of the engineers gravitated
to the Glee Club show. We heard
that Bob Musset was not there, so
it certainly seems as if he were
pretty interested in Peggy.

7.

Bill Hagen had to leave early because of back stage business for the
Glee Club, but we note that he and
Bobbie were cutting a pretty rug
afterwards.

T

“Gildie” was reported to have
said that he longed to be back with |
those darkies. When questioned in;
an interview he said, “I have nothing
to say.”

T

Mackie is now resting a little cosier now since a cable arrived from
England — from Jaequie. Now all
he has to do is to wait for a letter.

T

One night early this week we
heard Juicy and Will Harris argu
ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

“RHYTHM PARADE”
“DOWN RIO GRANDE WAY”

*

Thursday, Friday and Saturday

“LONDON Blackout MURDERS”
“SUNSET SERANADE”

mn ee

     
   
 
    
     
   
           
     
   
  
      
   
     
    

GARRICK
*

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday

“YOU WERE NEVER LOVLIER’
Rita Hayworth - Fred Astaire

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

“THUNDER AFLOAT”
“DANCING CO-ED”

  

OXFORD

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

“SPRINGTIME in The Rockies”
“THE UNDYING MONSTER”

   
 

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“A YANK AT ETON”
“SUBMARINE RAIDERS”

 
  

ing violently about a certain young
lady. All we could hear was “No,
you did”, from both parties. The
name of the young lady appears to
be Lynn. Your reporter will be on
the spot if anything further turns.
The Eagles have at last got their
feathers. Now who is going to give
Johnny Jeep most competition? |
T .

Congratulations are deserved by
quite a few. First, to Graham Bennett on being chosen for the Bob
Walter award. All engineers agree
that the committee made the right
choice. Then to John MacQuarrie and
Gerald Lantz on being chosen as
engineering representatives for 194344, and to Tom Patterson on being
elected President of Student’s Council. Finally to the others elected to
various positions.

CAPITOL

MONDAY, TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY

“Whistling In The
Dark”

Red Skelton

*

THURSDAY, FRIDAY
SATURDAY

“White Cargo”

Walter Pidgeon
Hedy Lamar

 

 
 
     
       
        
   
      
 

CASINO

STARTING SATURDAY
*

BS at
2 CRYSTAL
BALL”

with
Ray Milland
and
Paulette Goddard

  

  

  

   

“een —

The best is ane the Better buy!

 

 

The Robert Simpson Eastern Limited

 

   
 
 
   
 
 
  

The New Hollywood Collar. .

styled on higher lines, and adapted to
wearing with or without a collar pin, is
a feature of these new striped shirts,
with action back for greater freedom.
Made of sanforized-shrunk striped shirting in soft spring shades.
At $2.

All sizes.

Telephone 4-4111

«2» YOU can
spot it every time

E “burns up” com
petition at table
tennis but be burns
up energy, too. £m
That’s where ™
ice-cold Coca-Cola
comes in. It gives
energy ... quick refreshment...whenever
you’re thirsty or tired.

And Coca-Cola brings
you the deliciousness
of its clean, exciting
taste ...a flavour
that never fails to
please. To think of
refreshment is to
think of ice-cold
Coca-Cola ... the
pause that refreshes.
* ok *

 

Wartime limitsthe supply
of Coca-Cola. Those times §
when you cannot get it, §
remember: Coke, being
first choice, sells out first.
Ask for it each time.

Cee
pe

TRADE Ma ARK

b Pree BRE.

Pa
ng
as

‘eA ee as: ' Table tennis rates high with the
Bie. kT” eal younger set. And so does energySo giving ice-cold Coca-Cola, after a

friendly game. Refreshment means
Coke ,.. the real thing.

  
 
 
        

  

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

HALIFAX

636

 

THE AMERICAN GRILL

22 GRANVILLE STREET
24 Hour Service
COLLEGE STUDENTS

  
 

     

WELCOME

DALHOUSIANS ...
for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
LORD NELSON HOTU,

490 BARRINGTON STREET

 

   
  
 

   
 
 
     
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
    
    
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
 

Nir W exibictindate 3 in the U.A.T.C.
ve prs announced in recent orites by Flying Officer R. H.
cer in charge No. 16
be ie University) Squadron,
C., A.F. These include
» sergeant to an acting flight sergeant, and two of the trainees to
fe sergeant (unpaid).

pointed to the rank of Acting
Plight. Sergeant (paid) is Sergeant
_J. H. Hallett, Olerk; to Acting Ser
.* »

oe qierents (unpaid) F. H. Forbes, ane

 

. Allan O’Brien.

F. H. Forbes was a 2nd Lieut. in
th C.0.T.C., resigning his commis_ sion to enlist in the U.A.T.C. R. A.
O’Brien is to act as Math instructor
"66 the University Air Training

awe

| "The U.A.T.C. boys have started to

wear their airforce blue, one of the

Me Datreopies uniforms seen around the

Shy
ae

   
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
    
   
   
   
 
 
    
 
   
   
 
   
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

‘Thee

rere mow, where navy and khaki

_ vie too for top honors, and the uniform most likely to be looked at by

- 60

On Raturday afternoon, the U.A
T.C. will visit the air station at
Eastern Passage.

:

Join the Picobac

Today; American

Officers Present

The annual inspection of the Dal-_

housie-King’s C.O.T.C. will be carried out tomorrow, Brigadier D. A.
White, D.S.0., D.O.C., M.D. 6, to
make the inspection accompanied by
senior officers of the Canadian
Army. It is understood that some
American officers will accompany the
Brigadier. The parade has been called for thirteen hundred hours.

The year’s activities will conclude
Major Hogan pointed out, with a
parade to St. Paul’s Church, March
28, the Roman Catholic party going
to St. Mary’s Cathedral, it is understood. After that there will be a kit
inspection and pay parade at a later
unspecified date.

Applications

All applications for Editor and
Business Manager of next year's

Gazette should be forwarded at
once to Murray Rankin, 98! Edward street. The issue will be
considered at the last meeting of
the old Students’ Council.

 

Fraternity. It means
pleasant hours in every day—hours of mild,
cool sweet converse with a pipe—that companion which enlivens company and enriches solitude.

Picobac

GROWN IN SUNNY,

SOUTHERN ONTARIO

 

 

Compliments of

THE HUGHES OWENS
CO. LIMITED

|
MONTREAL |

*

Everything for the Drawing Office.

a | i | =a

 

   

SUNT

nit 0 N=

-OC-SCOPE

by ED MORRIS
NANO LEULL NA HNATM

Last week’s column in this space, arguing for the appointment of a

 

ah

select committee by the D.A.A.C. te go into the whole question of sports
training on the campus, appears to have created considerable stir among
the student body, and that is al] to the good. But at just that point the

idea seems to fade.

The suggestion has been greeted
with three different opinions. The
first contends that the idea is a good
one and should be carried through.
So much for that. The second is
that the idea is worthless and futile
and is just another example of
overheated blabbering. So much for
that. The third is the realm of noidea. And it is precisely that reaction that of the greatest importance.

Why is it that Dalhousie students
are traditiionally immune to any
student movement? Football is
probably the only activity that gets
any response and even that depends
upon what the weather is up to and
what the girls at the Hall had for
lunch. Pep rallies are usually
counted as a howling success if they
bring out twenty students, and even
those twenty must be bribed in some
fashion or other.

The unpleasant fact remains, despite all the voices of protest, our
student body just hasn’t any college
spirit in the final pay-off. And if
you don’t believe me, just glance
back at the long record of unsuccessful attempts to get something
going.

What has all this to do with the
proposal for a D.A.A.C. committee?
Simply this: Any idea in the sporting scene on the campus must buck
the same inertia as greets undergraduate societies, student powwows or class pictures for the
Year Book. Always it is the same
old red herring that streaks across
the path. Why do anything about
this or that project if the next fellow doesn’t seem over-anxious about
the whole thing? Why go to too
much trouble when you plan to
leave in the Spring—voluntarily or
involuntarily ?

Yes, sure, any student who has
been around more than a week or
two ’can work up a mighty fine
frenzy over this spring. And it is
only the very few who. have enough
in them to keep it up that really
get anywhere.

Another Forum
To Decide Seat

This urgent appeal to the Arts &
Science students was recently deliv
| Tom Larcomb required.

So far as it goes, | would much

rather have the whole student body

out and out against this idea than
have 90% without any reaction at
all.

Sports activities on this campus
could be developed to a much more
intensive level than at _ present.
Whether they are or not depends
solely on student initiative. If the
D.A.A.C. were to become the mouthpiece for that student opinion so
much the better, since it would add a
touch of the quasi-official to the
whole thing.

No other campus of this size in the
whole of Canada has greater natural
sporting facilities on its very doorstep. The University of Toronto has
a walking club that holds its safaris
right in the heart of town. Manitoba has an angler’s club that flaunts |
its wares in an artificial lake, Personally I’m not the slightest bit interested in either walking or fishing
as an organized club member but
there may be others on the campus
who care.

All this is subject to the specious
argument that no project is worth
undertaking unless a minimum of
one hundred students get on the band |
wagon, which is perfectly ridiculous |
Among a student body of six or
seven hundred, any project that |
claims ten or twelve active members |
is deserving of support. |

Where is the money to come from?
What money? There is not much |
financial outlay involved in organiz- |
ing and running a ping pong tourna
ment or a squash league or a dine
class. Mest of the students provide
their own equipment. And it does)
seem a bit lopsided to spend $150 on |
oranges and lemons for the football
team and $4.65 for badminton.

Typing this thing down to recent
developments, your columnist wants

to congratulate the new deans of the
D.A.A.C., MelIvor, Campbell and
Fraser, while at the same time hop
ing that they will think this
over and give it a chance.

thing

| Una Pigeon, and played it to the hilt

| with all the “joie de vivre” the char‘acter demand ed. Art Hartling
brought all the vigor and color that
his “down-to-earth” character as
Mary Boswell’s portrayal of the society leader,
Lady Strome, was excellent indeed.

ered by a member of the Arts and|But the character who really “stole

Science Society. Realizing its im
the show” was that of Mrs. Pigeon,
so convincingly done by Joan Archi
gprtance, we herewith reprint the |hald who was perfection herself.

message:

Do you realize that our rights are
being grossly attacked? On Tuesday at the Students’ Forum a motion was passed which was to have
resulted in the loss of one of our
seats on the Council. That motion
proved entirely unconstitutional with
the result that we still hold our five
members—as yet. But this means
a Student Forum in the near future
to decided if 16 members ‘on the
Council (the added one being an engineer) on too many or if one of our
seats should be relinquishel.

England was perhaps growing too
many individuals who failed to realize the threat of mass organization. The individual effort of Arts
and Science students cannot be questioned as we see the “Gazette”, year
book, Sodales, and the main part of
the girls activities not to mention
Glee Club shows carried on by Arts
and Science students. Our weakness lies in mass action within the
Society.

Wake up before it is too late and
we lose a rightful privilege. Delta
Gamma, your only way of getting
on the Council is through our Arts
and Science Soeiety. When the next
Students’ Forum comes along, prove
to the jeering masses that we have
a strength they never suspected.
Save our seat, 16 seats aren’t too
many anyway. Arts and Science
unite.

FRESH FIELDS—

Continued from page 1

the bill-laden secretary and Elaine
Hopewell’s performance as “Lady
Lillian” was not to be surpassed.
Although Miss Hopewell is a newcomer to the Dal stage, we see for
her a bright future in choice character, roles of other plays to come.
Much to the dismay of many who
thought her merely ‘sugar and spice’
they were forced to admit when seeing Barbara White’s performance as
the proud and haughty “Lady Mary”
—that girl can act.

The performances of Kay Cox and
Peter Donkin as the “young people”
of the story were suitable to. Mr.
Donkin’s role as the useless. arrogant young son of Lady Mary was
handled with a perfection that comes
with constant practice. His voice,
especially suited to stage productions
fitted in with*his actions.

Miss Cox, another new-comer to,

the Dal stage, had the choice role as

 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   

through the realm of polities. PBR 8
“His Majesty’s Yankees” is a book | — ee eas | Sree ”

that everyone will like to re-read

because of its characters and excel-| )THE NATIONAL FISH CO.

|lent story, and particularly every LIMITED

Nova Seotian will enjoy it because cay

 

 

TIP TOP TAILORS <2

 

‘ola cals 3 Mareh 5, 1943 *®
BOOK REVIEW— ing rivers, like the deep rooted for- |

t itself.”
Continued from page two ee

Ih Mr. Raddall will folwere to achieve this ideal peacefully | jow thes tt by Cee ee a

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

of its loeal history and people and
places. Mr. Raddall has caught the
spirit of Nova Scotia in many passages like this:

“But our sons would never give
themselves wholly to anything but | ¢

lesa
this rocky homeland on the sea’s| / Fader’s Drug Stores

edge, where life is a struggle that | 135 HOLLIS STREET
ill | tr
demands a man’s utmost and wi | 29 COBURG ROAD i!

take no less, where beauty alone is |
bountiful, and only death comes easily; where courage springs from
the eternal rock like the clear sing- |

MAPLE LEAF DAIRY

A. D. JOHNSON, Prop.

 

Nova Scotia

 

HALIFAX

Phone L. 2357
MILK — CREAM — BLEND - BUTTERMILK

YOUR SUIT COATS AND DRESSES

Look Newer

d

 

Last Longer

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,
to keep them feeling soft and fresh, to maintain
shapely, slylish lines. A good wartime practice
Buy fewer clothes—send what you have to
Cousins often. ,

IS:

@
LIMITED

   

CLEANERS LAUNDERERS DYERS STORAGE

STUDENTS!

NORMAN’S CAFE

   

HOLLIS STREET B-9575
OFFICERS’
Yr?
UNIFORMS | |
Callored-to--Measure
el
@ Officers’ uniforms for the Navy,
Army and Air Force are hand-cut ,
a

and tailored by Tip Top Tailors to
individual measurements and
requirements, yet conform strictly
to regulations. Fine materials and \
top-flight workmanship ensure smart |
and comfortable wear under all

conditions. Officers will find scrupu- i
lous attention given to every detail
of fit, style and tailoring at Tip Top :
Tailors, plus intelligent and helpful |
service.

er

" S@7 25

Buttons and Badges Extra

 
 

      
   
 
 

g
war proe are on 807 .
acon and suggest Y° ,
order early.
¢
~¥ 1

TM1-42

418-20 Barrington St. 3

annem ei, maa
