  

fi By

ta

;
‘ hs es WN
,:

e
a

   
  
 
  
    
   

Pi

a
Ma

ui

 

¢;
ae
s

Ken

   

y at
a

 
     
 
  

(An Editorial)
One Reape by no means a secret

we have neglected. Without it
are ineffective, our cause
and our victory turnd to defeat. Tanks, | planes, battleships,
vast armies of fighting men are
pp ih against it for it is more
powerful than any implement of
ized war. It steeled the
“heroic peoples of China against the
« decapaeely invincible invader; it
brought refuge and comfort to the
afflicted nations of dominated
Europe; it gave unconquerable
strength and determination to Bri
 

 

- tain and to Russia. It is the weapon

of Faith.

We know that we are fighting the
. most righteous of wars. We know
that our enemies seek to substitute
the worship of false gods for faith
ins the Divine power. Not only is
their heathenish mentality untrue;
not. only does it deserve no faith,—
"ultimately it demands none. Despotee governs without Faith, but
ty cannot. We must have faith
i the things for which we fight, a
- positive and dynamic belief which
"tolerates. no hesitancy or doubt. To
believe is to be strong. Doubt
_ cramps enerey. Belief and faith are
_ power.

Ours is a Christian heritage of
_ Faith, . Columbus was carried to the
New World by unswerving faith in
an Gpinion, Cartier, Champlain, LaSalle, Hudson, and Cook were each
possessed of a flaming belief. Father Brebeuf, Madeleine de Ver-cheres, La Verendrye, Laura Secord,
Samuel Hearne were urged ever onwards by the power of faith in the
radiant future of a glorious land
whose history they were writing.
For the story of the Canadian people
is much like a seamless web woven

 

from the twin threads of faith and
belief.

We do more than fashion our
ideals and our purposes as a negative version of the mentality which

Next Thursday evening, the Dal
-housie Juniors are holding their an
ual ball at the Lord Nelson Hotel,
Dancing will be from nine till one,
to the smooth music of Don Low and
his orchestra. Outstanding news
about the Prom, is that dress is
optional rather than formal as it was

last year.

Still another important feature is
that, attendance is limited to one
hundred and five couples, and no
more. Tickets may be purchased
from any of the following on the
committee in charge:— MacLellan,
Don Oland, Glen Hubley or from Roy
Atwood at the Gym store, at three
dollars a couple.

Chaperons for the Prom will be
Prof .and Mrs. C. L. Bennet and Dr.
and Mrs. W. J. Archibald.

_ The committee also wishes to point
out the fact that the Junior Prom
willb e the last student formal of the

year.

Pi Beta Phi
To Give Play

Tonight at 8:15 the curtain rises
on the first dramatic presentation of
the season. The girls of Pi Beta
Phi are offering the one-act play,
“Spy Me This One’, as their entry
in the annual competition for the
Connolly Shield. Prof, C. L. Bennet
will, as before, judge the offerings,
of which this is the first, the winner
receiving the coveted award.

This John Kirkpatrick farce will be
directed by Mrs. Karl C. Clarke, and
the cast will include the following:
Mary Johnson, Barbara Sieniewicz,
Yvonne Mounsey, Susan Morse,
Ruth James, Frances Clancey. ‘The
play, cast just before the Christmas
holidays, has been in active produc
now confronts us on the battlefield. | tion for over a month and will most

 

Class of ’43

In Elections

Class of ’43 met at noon Tuesday,
for the election of class officers, and
to appoint a committee to carry out
the many tasks which arise out of
Convocation. Blanchard Wiswell,
chairman of the meeting, called for
the co-operation of all classmates in
graduation activities. The election
of class officers was next on the
agenda, resulting as follows:

Bob Swansburg—Pres. (Life)
Betty Bird—Vice-Pres.—(Life)
Norie Douglas—Treasurer
Cyril King—Secretary

Prof. W. P. Copp—Hon. Pres.

A committee was elected to take
charge of all convocation business,
and activities includes: Any Eisenhauer, Graham Bennet, Helen MacKay, Mary MacKeigan, and Mary
Boswell.

The chairman then informed students that nearly all class pictures
had been completed, but appealed to
those whose photos were not ready
to submit them as soon as possible.

“Fresh Fields” Cast
Finally Announced

Along with the other news of the
week, the Glee Club is able to bring
the names of the cast of its threeact play, “Fresh Fields”, before the
public. Several last minute casting
changes have resulted in a highly
capable cast which will make the
most of this Ivor Novello comedy. |

 

 

Most of the roles in the play are
of almost equal length, a fact that |
provides much harmony among its

* Junior det harsday at Fad Nelson

 

Arts, Science Get John |Fifteen Choose Four

Crosbie As Director

Barbara White, as president of the
Arts and Science dramatic activities
announces that their bid for the
Connolly Shield, offered every year
in competition for the best one-act
play produced by any faculty or
group at Dalhousie, will be the celebrated one-act play, “Coming of
Age”.

Written by the well-known American playwright, George S. Kaufman,
“Coming of Age” will undoubtedly
attract much attention, not only here
at Studley, but with the drama enthusiasts of the city as well. The
play has not yet been cast, and Miss
White urges those interested in
acting to watch for announcements
of the casting try-outs to ‘be held
next week.

Further news of this attentiongetting presentation is that it will
be directed by none other than John
Crosbie, Regional Programme Director for the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation. Mr. Crosbie, who has
had much theatre experience here
and in Upper Canada, has expressed
a keen desire to be back working
with a play again.

Production dates have not definitely been settled, but, since a college

ruling prohibits any public perform-_|

ance after Munroe Day (this year
certain that the

                  

| play will be produced by that date. |

Professor C. L. Bennet, who is judging this week’s offering, “Spy Me
This One”, will also direct his expert
judicial talents towards “Coming Of
Age”,

Law Student

Marries in Seattle
HANNA-KNUDSON
On the evening of January 2nd,

|

|Cross Ball

 

;

Important Committees

Meeting Sunday, the Students’
Council made its choice of several
committees to carry on important
work between now and Munro Day.
This year’s benefactors’ celebration
promises to be the most unusual yet
of the war period, with a War Services day to be carried out. Otherwise recent restrictions would cut
down the dancing to a small fraction
of the celebrants. John MacInnes
has been chosen to head the committee, aided; by Don Oland and
Laura MacKenzie.

The Malcolm Honor Award committee was also chosen, consisting
of Marty MacDonald, Laura MacKenzie, Bill Hagen, Dr. Bell and
Dr. George Wilson. The Awards
Committee consists of George Gass,
Sue Morse and Cyril King; the election committee of Graham iets
Don Oland, Cyril King and -Sue
Morse.

In the interests of reviving hockey, it is planned to have Don Oland
visit authorities at H.M.C.S. King’s
for permission to use the ice. Dal
students will also be intereste
know the final report of the Red)
revealed $329,283
netted for the international organization.

was

Gals To Do Campus

Reversal; Sadie’s

Gazette In Offing

Plans are underway between Miss |
| Mary soswell, president of Delta
|Gamma, and the Gazette staff, to

give the co-eds all] rights to the issue
|in the near future, possibly the week
after next.

 

| doctorate

| France, Belgium,

y aor Bf a ‘ aN
ae os Uae * ney
he nS
| Sten "i 5 he 4

Gregory Vlastos To
Give Review Of Air

Training And Action

On Tuesday, February 9, at
12 noon, Dalhousie students will
have an opportunity to hear
Squadron Leader Gregory Vlastos, who will give a picture of
R.C.A.F. in action. ‘Squadron
Leader Vlastos is a former professor of philosophy at Queens
University.

The series of lectures being delivered by Squadron Leader Vlastos is
the outcome of the program undertaken by the R.C.A.F. to acquaint
the public with life and work in
the Air Force. Several prominent
civilians were asked to enlist, “and
to learn as much as possible about
the daily life of an airman or airwoman. The first assignment was.
to follow the recruit through all the
stages of his training from Manning
Pool to graduation. Next, there followed three months in Britain, during which they visited every type of
station on which Canadian airmen

|and officers served. They saw every

kind of aircraft in operation, visited
Radiolocator stations as well as
bombed-out cities.

Squadron Leader Vlastos was born
in Constantinople, where he received
his early education. Later he came
to America, studied at Chicago Theo
d to logical Seminary, and completed his

in philosophy. He ‘first
came to Queen’s in 1931, and since

|then has had a distinguished record
}as lecturer and contributor to peri| odicals.
i'tian Faith and Democracy”, which

He is the author of “Chris
has gone into its third printing and
has been translated into Chinese.
He has travelled extensively on the
European continent, having visited
Germany, Russia,
tummania, Turkey, Greece, England

and Italy.
S/L Vlastos’ parents are still in
Athens, Greece, but he has had no

‘word from them since the invasion.

One brother, Kimon, was a lieuten~
ant in the Greek army during the

    

Ho's negative philosophy of life, fash-| certainly offer stiff competition to
- joned merely to contradict that of the other contenders for the Shield.
the enemy, is futile. We needs must|A ruling of the competition states
have a positive belief that brings| that no settings shall be used. It
into the clear cold light of reality will therefore be interesting to note

The girls are keeping
)sverytbing under their coiffures, but

   
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
    
 
   
    
  
 
   

players, all of whom are ready, willing and able to give their all on
February 26th, the presentation date.
Barbara White and Elaine Hopewell

at 8.30 p.m, the First Trinity
Church of Seattle, Washington, was
the scene of a very pretty w edding.|
For there Richard Hanna, son of |

days Mussolin’s armies were being
chased through Albania.

 

 

(Continued on page two)

 

.p.|have outstanding roles as sister Tude dM De i
| the justice of our arms and the|to what effect the girls will tise per ‘ Judge an rs. anna of Al- ¢ :
: Se of our goal. To con-|missable drapes. aristocrats of a snooty English|pberni, B. C., took as his bride Isa- Dalhous..e Institute of
is fess that undeniable fact and to in-| After the play there will be danc-|family. Arthur Hartling and Joan/|pbella Jane Knudson, daughter of Dr. Public Opinion «

Archibald are an Australian couple, | and
brother and sister this time. ae erry
Cox and Peter Donkin have the| The bride, who entered the church |DO YOU THING THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN FRENCH.
juvenile leads. The cast also fea-|on the arm of her father, was the | NORTH AFRICA IS BEING MISHANDLED?

wre Sap 2 Sapnore, ‘Vincent. Allen, picture of girlish loveliness. The | The majority of students hold the opinion that the French North

nd ™ re : : ‘a '
and Mary Boswell. groom was attractively attired in a| African situation is finally clearing up. Most answers received were con
“iia It is hoped to present “Fresh|Suit of black serge cut on formal] ditional, implying that the United Nations were doing their best to solve
SEA) itional, implying that the United Nations were doing their bes
iia | Tickets x the Junior Prom may O. T C, Are Examined Fields” at a second performance for| lines which accentuated his fine the complex French political problem.

* be al ed. from. Glen Hubley or servicemen. athletic physique. His low cut ox- In actual figures 44% were of the opinion that the situation was not
Don Oland. It ‘promises to be the Major Lackner, assistant to the Mmilk MAN este fords were of black cowhide with being mishandled, while 26% thought the matter was not being treated
ae Reece a February. ie ee sogelP a eae . | black sie ek his coat he properly. Another 15% stated that the probleem had been mishandled in
-f Pe a | z wore a white broadcloth shirt with 5 ing shang yr, The remaining 15% were
a s any. ‘hadent any Roe that |toons of the O.T.C. yesterday after- Non-Coms Join Dal cotta aR scan. Peas but that things had changed now. The remaining 15% were
hana aker ‘durin; g the past year of|noon, accompanied by other officers. : The bride was attended by her| !
dees _ college acti ties? You'd be surpris- The cadets took an examination in U. A. fis C. Staff | maid of honor, Eleanor Adams, and | A , IN ANY

Qos how | hese pic re can be re- first” aid principles and_ stretcher | bridesmaids, Jane Lasater, Gertrude DO YOU T Cee oce Ercire RT IN A
i yon who he as | drill. Two new additions to the staff of | Boss and Margaret Jenson. The | are , :
; No. 16, Dalhousie University Squad- \

ron, U.A.T.C. were announced this

% e ces of college if life’. er during | hue sews of the O.T.C. week groom’s brother, Lawrence Hanna, A, total of 61% of those questioned answered in the affirmative to
70 Awe acted as bést man. The ushers were this question, although many of those stated that they only played oc
week by Flying Officer Comeau.
Set. J. H. Hallett joined the Dal
Np the summer vaca Lor the 1 iter | includes the fact Major R. V. Hogan,
ine term ‘and nie of last year’s at the request of M.D. No. 6, paid Neill Hanna, Myron Knudson and | easionally, Ping Pong ranked very high in popularity with the boys,
paige ; JackUPisvehwian. \followed by basketball, and parlor rugby. The other 39% stated that
ae housie Unit as clerk on February

2nd, and WO2 V. W. Irvin took up

¢. ‘camp, please get in” fisit to the newly formed O.T.C. of
‘ey h Don Oland, Photographic Editor| st nne’s College, Church Point, Mr. Hanna is a law student at| ‘hey did not take part in any college sports. Many of these stated that
2% te Year Book. Any pictures cut Dig! Dalhousie and is active in numerous ‘M®Y Were too busy,

 

CC it in our very way of life|ing until twelve o’clock to the
“a. is to renew our strength both for| Popular music of Don Low’s or| hi Senrciinte and future Festal, Faith | chestra.

i a our Wonton.

poe Moment Please Medical Platoons Of

|
Mrs. C. W. Knudson of Seattle, |
Kay Washington.

 

 

% be
z ane


tk us 35 7%

  

  
 
      
  

   
    
  

       
     
  

  

 

   
 

      

         

   

"County, to give advice on

      

S$ pertaining to cadet work.

hurch parade will be held at
’s Cathedral a week from
on the fourteenth. It is exoman Catholics will go

  
  
  
 
    
 
  

invita’ tion

; ) The U.A.|

JED. =
“

the position of disciplinarian on
February 3rd. Dalhousie extends a
most cordial welcome to both these
members of the R.C.A.F..

“i

     
  
 
 
 
  

college activities. He is a member
team, and belongs to the Sigma Chi
fraternity. Previous to her marriage
Mrs. Hanna was a student at the

Some confusion existed as to the interpretation of “active part”.
of the Dalhousie Tigers’ football Typical answer: “No, I don’t take an active part, but I play basketball”.

*

*

%* %

YOUR FAVORITE MAGAZINE

Just to find out whether Dal students read any weekly (not weakly) —
University of Washington, and was| publications except the Gazette, we thought we would ask this question. —
a member of the eee we ery tani magazines vie for top honors, each oe 19% of the votes; they are —

or in favor is ESQUIRE with |

ADDERS DIGEST, TIME. and

_ De tt
5 eiOl ~ &

ere: THE NATION, ATLANTIC
OK, LADIE HOME JOURNAL.
  
  

ik

f
| Bs
t

 

 

     
 
  
 
   

Cee e eee eens

eeaeceoeseseeo?

ry
heaite
SOitor

  

  
 
 
   
  
  
 

  

atte e wee

ranhic Editor eeeee

These days the air is full of discussion on the brave new world that
is going to be handed to us “after
the war”. Everyone is agreed that
the old order of famine amidst
plenty will not again be tolerated,
yet most of the proposals that are
set forth as the solution are conveniently silent about the fundamental problem of destroying the
causes of economic crises. There are
all sorts of proposals dealing with
effects, ranging from the -enlightened “Beveridge Report” to the various enticing programs of “monetary reform”.

To deal with effects rather than
causes, however, is like bashing a
man over the head and then carefully trying to nurse him back to
life. To achieve a happy and prosperous society, there are certain
fundamental economic concepts
which have to be changed, and
ehanged radically. As Sir William
Beveridge so aptly put it; “A revolutionary moment in the world’s history is a time for revolutions, not
patching”’. : :

One of the most important jobs
fating a post-war world will be the
achievement of economic as well as
political democracy. The job that
was started by the French and
American Revolutions must be
brought to its logical conclusion.
Political liberty and equality mean
little without economic equality.
The real, as well as the legal distinction, must be removed between
prince and pauper.

Cries of “oh, that will destroy iniWiative” meet any such suggestion
of economic democracy. People are
used to think of initiative in terms
of the dollar sign, and their immediate reaction is that the former
cannot exist without the latter. Such
an attitude is understandable, if not
entirely commendable, for it is one
of those superstitions that derives
its authority from repetition. We
have heard it repeated so often from
birth that we have come to accept
it, and in an argument it can be
conveniently used as a wonderful
exeuse for not thinking.

Tnitiative is not eternally insepar
able from the dollar sign. The dolJar sign is merely a method of
recognising it in our present social
system, but it has not always been
so, nor need it be so in the future.

(GAZETTE STAFF
PEN iia 6. Sh’ Cae da bb ed ieee ade McCleave

eee eeeeereereeeree ee ee ee ewe ereenee

Bee eerie creel ecensveasancaveve eter Donkin
0) cen Vnditvw.es cupid die pees Cate anon es KeOe Morris
eidinle a ad HOw aS a Simla ep PAD Coldwell
Ledekogeis naan deters eurie Allison
grap RL R EG EN ea eal a ans aewe needle Oland
t10 . Manager Pere rT eC COCO UIOTE or Eileen Phinney

ee eee eee eee RRO ROE EHH EEO

eee ee ee ee ee eee

—— Harvey,

- ee we ae aoe WL Vs os
“Whe views expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of

 

We Macdonald
J dveeseccenss ROG Shields

...--Boris Funt
.Hileen Phinney

J Cam
Kay Cox, ames p
  

Dr. MacGoun, professor of industrial
relations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an outstanding psychologist, lecturing
recently at Dalhousie, stated that
three objects of desire motivated the
human being: the quests for security, for recognition, and for selfexpression. Initiative deserves and
demands recognition, and money is
one form of recognition. Money in
itself is not an end, but the security and prestige that money gives
is the true objective.

Money or property has not in all
forms of human organization been
the yard-stick of success. In primitive tribal organization, property
was held in common, and there it
was the most skillful hunter or
craftsman who held the esteem of
the community. In our present day,
money reward is not always the object of special endeavour by any
means. The student who strives to
do his best, the soldier who puts
everything into the battle, the doctor who takes pride in a skillful operation on a patient, all these are not
distinguishing themselves because it
will increase their bankroll. They are
seeking self-expression and recognition is a way that gives much more
satisfaction to them than would the
riches of a Rockefeller.

The system that maintains that
initiative can only be stimulated by
material reward has caused more
misery and suffering than all the
wars in human history. It excuses
hardship and privation by saying
that they stimulate human endeavour
at the same time penalising criminally the people who through lack of a
healthy social background have not
the ability nor the opportunity to
climb out of their wretched social
position. A decent and just society
would establish a standard of living
that would bring security and wellbeing to all, and recognize ability
by acclaiming it, rather than by
fixing a price tag to it. Anyone who
doubts that such a society is possible
should look at the U.S.S.R., where
great scientists, artists, thinkers, administrators workers and _ soldiers
are recognized as Heroes of the
Soviet Union, and financial remuneration is a very secondary consideration. And who still thinks that the
Soviet “experiment” was failure.? ?

 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

‘To the Editor of the Gazette, .

This is with reference to the “Editorial” that appeared in your last

week's issue—writer not named.

tHe,
é
a

     
  
    
  
  

)) every student on the ca 1pus
watch for another notice!
a, > ul rd hata

Although several minor points in that article could be criticized we
wast admit that the main argument was fully justified. It is disgraceful
on the one hand, the way in which the Canadian press makes the “wiping
out of college students” a sport, and it is not less deplorable the apathy
of the students towards these vehement attacks towards our present
Struggle, our future, and towards life as a whole.

Realizing, then, that our attitude must change we shall do something

_ about it immediately: many of us would like to be better and impartially
informed about current events and problems if we had only the time.
By a united effort this situation could very easily be improved: Here is

_ 4 practical suggestion: title: “Bi-monthly Living News Reel.”

Each of about twenty students undertake to peruse regularly one
mewspaper or magazine each. At the bi-monthly meeting they report for
five or ten minutes each on the most valuable information contained in
one of several articles they have read. The reports should be on the
widest possible basis (science, recent literature and political events, etc.)

-and should be informative and stimulating thoughts rather than endeavour |

‘to solve basic problems. (The latter could be left to be taken up by a
study group to be organized next fall.) ;
The task is by no means difficult nor does it steal much time. The

  
  

students take part, the easier will be the work for the
vidual and the more efficient the work as a whole. It is once more
cup to every in l, for only then can this enterprise, which will benefit

S, be a success. Let us know your opinion and

 

JRE Ape A Sed.) H.S. %
“P.S.—The meetings could conclude with a “social”! |
; ree 4 ‘ ;

i Rather py’ si ot t

ee _
nn |

 

      

“Will the officer be mad if you're very, very late?”
“Not if | bring his Sweet Caps.”

  
 

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

    
 

/

yj

f

~—S ~~

—

FARMERS’ MILK »°

Is Stimulating .. . It Peps You Up! /

>“

=

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

  

~~

JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP
Four Experienced Barbers

= — 2 >

   

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED
Oo
DRUGGISTS

      

Se

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

O

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C, A. Building
Phone B-6881

Halifax

Birks and Gifts

The two words are a
“natural”! :

After any Show

Sixty years of serving
Canadians have brought
a wealth of experience
to Canada’s national
jewellers.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Registered Jeweller

Before any Meal

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

American Gem Society
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

 

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses,

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 

 

   

onaiate * - 4th fi a

P| ik : * F a *
t ni ii (ee Sach 1,8 { To aeiio uw ) gee eat : of &

oo ty

vite \ vr ge : 4 {bes “a> i? ei <i

7

 

| ST ath sail 3 hint
sh tua eat Sef on # “Set Wie D Apart th te ght baal ip. <p thal ay

7 eeeeaeremmasiils _; aan :

~

February 5, 1943

   

 

JANUARY BLUES

No, I’m not going to talk about the “January thaw” sensation which
comes after the holly and tinsel have been tucked away, or the deeidedly
dumpish feeling after exam results have been posted. There are other
blues in January besides these, and if you enjoy looking for colours during the winter season, you will notice that January is a predominant month
for blue shades, especially if the ground has a liberal coating of snow
and ice.

For instance, there is that lovely dove-grey blue of snow or wind
clouds when they are heaped in profusion along the edge of the horizon,
and the pure, deep, cerulean the sky acquires when the sun is shining
on crystalized world.

There there is the indescribable hue of a shadow, which no dyer has
yet captured in a strip of cloth and the blue that clings to delicate traceries of frost on window-panes or icicles hanging from pointed eaves
and gables.

There is the frosted tint of far away hills and the pale borderline
Shade twilight brings when day begins to melt wistfully into evening,
and when evening has finally arrived, there is the gorgeous indigo mantle
night wears fastened with the jewelled buttons of stars and, now and then
a sterling silver moon. Of course there are wintry sunsets that gradually
fade into pastel streaks of rose and lemon. ‘There are the vivid emeraldy
greens of firs and spruces and the rich greys and browns of bare branches
etched against white snow. But blue is the queen of colours: she tries to
make up for all the frozen lakes and streams, and for the covered violets
and forget-me-nots that bloom in Mother Nature’s 4ummer garden.

—K. E. B.

 

ROMANCE AND TRUTH

Once, in an extravagant mood, the poet Keats said:

“Beauty is truth, and truth beauty; that is all
Ye know on earth and all ye need to know.”

Any one will admit the beauty of his lines, but no person who gives them
any thought can agree with Keats’ doctrine. Truth, because we live .in
a sad, unlovely world, is often (one might Say most often) ugly; beauty
because our tastes are dulled by thirsty centuries of civilization, we find
in the unusual, the unnatural or the untrue. The false beauty of the
poem is proof for that argument, but Keats goes on to tell us that we
need to know nothing more than Truth and Beauty. Keats must bhive
been an indifferent conversationalist, for if he practiced his theory,
scandal and gossip would have been not only uninteresting but-abhorrent.

It is one of the most amiable weaknesses of the human race, this love
of derogatory anecdote. How infinitely soothing is that half-past four
atmosphere, composed of intimacy, tea and cigarettes, where a reputation
as solid and white as margble is dissolved in froth and sand. How gently
amusing it is, to dim as if with fly-specks the shining lustre of a name!
These processes have little to do with beauty in the accepted sense of the
word, but they at least tend to establish a decent uniformity among men:
when the gossips have finished, the rest of the world has been levelled off
so that they can see a plain and orderly surface of inferior folk. This
conviction of superiority is so necessary for our happiness that seandal is
a defense against our conformity to a set pattern. We need to know
that they have done what we could never have done.

And what is more, we know that by the bad world’s misbehavior, we
are saved to misbehave undetected. Truth, in times like these, would be
enough to ruin us, if ever it should return from its far wanderings. It is
amusing to picture that day of wrath and pain, when Truth in all its
savagery stalk our cities and countryside. Imagine the old ladies before
the fire, seeing as they wipe melted butter from their fingers, a true
account of that Ball at Admiralty House in ’88, written, as if ie letters
of blood, below the words that Colonel Morris said to the Duchess of
Cornwall. The faces would fold into perpendicular wrinkles of disappointment, and the old ladies would be glad to die, since the truth, in all its
paltry glory, was known. For years they had fled before baections in

pursuit of Colonel Morris’s faux pas; now there is nothing to do bu
surrender.

Actually there is nothing more beautifully intricate than a lvin
scandal composed in the throes of boredom.» AIl the bright aude of
dazing fancy are sewn to a fabric of gathered wool dyed with envy. The
embroidered tissue is wrapped round the skelton of a nesting nave and
the whole creation is hoisted on a booby trap, for the enlightenment of ‘es
victim, But the use to which this appliance is put is seldom Worthy of the
loving care that went to its composition. For this reason if a no fa
other, many scandals are really art for art’s sake, made in the rid ia
joy of workmanship, calculated accurately to have a Machuatict fo “al
ranks of society; in short, things of no small beauty and infinitel :
truth. And it is obvious that we must know of ew tat
behind in the appreciation of culture is to take th
retrograde path to primitive honesty and nauseating

all
all
because to fall
e first steps on the
ly sweet simplicity.

a
Girls to Do -
Continued from page 1

 

start preparing. As far as we know,
the coveted honor of getting hooked
by some gal is still the number one
hit for the unorthodox pleasures of
the males around here, and right
now the lads are primping their hair
to get that invitation, There’s more
hearts broken this way than in a
Hollywood melodrama.

are planning extra-sensational doings.

If the Gazette-sponsored by coeds hits the campus the same week
as the L’il Abner catch-as-can frolic,
then the male population better

wo a ie st - “4 as ‘ re ve aA
gh -* SPOT MeR Mei IN) rsh
pobB lias Bel. ot Ae iE |

   
 

ea | te tae oT et A. Fahd
; th Ub ae im Reg il AT
; a * a; . aM, . ee ae 7 i, Vs ’. le
Ee: - _ br ae oe ote |

a.

 

 
  

ug h a small Southern Village
ar iced two tiny Negro churches.
a an he asked Om it, one darky

 
 
 
 

7 suh, its all because of a
ee of doctrine”.
_ “How’s that?” asked our friend.
“Well, the other church says
| Pharaoh's daughter found Moses in
the bulrushes; but we say — Oh,
aor Daily.
A. er we
ie _ And here’s the latest about the
- little morons, from the Gateway:
- Three little morons couldn’t find a
fourth for bridge, so they each cut
- off an arm and let gangrene set in.”
aa
ae And also from the Gateway:
Boy Friend: Are you free this
evening ?
Girl Friend: Well, not exactly.

h,

!
|

baie

t -tr00, but very inexpensive. One in
a million!
Warts. v.
Frosh: I understand you’re a mind
reader?

Goed: That’s right.
Frosh: Would you like to read my
mind?
Coed: Maybe—
Frosh: Well, go ahead.
Coed: What—and be mauled to
death ?—The Brunswickan.
rh WS
a The ‘ship was sinking and the
captain called all hands aft.
“Who among you can pray?” he
asked.
” “I can”, wailed a quartermaster.
_ “Then pray, shipmate,” said the
captain. “The rest of you put on
Bite jackets. We’re just one short.”
Wy
Den lille pike: Bedstefar! var du i
tens ark? |
Nei, min egen pike, jeg var ikke
a Men, Bedstefar, hvorfor druknet
_ du saa ikke?
COMMENT UNNECESSARY.
Vy eV:
Big Blow Out
_ Depart ‘ye sophists, for I’m about
To perpetrate a pun.
“A man once took his nose apart
; To see what made it run.”
—McGill Daily.
7 VV ¥
, ‘ It was his first attempt at rifle
", practice, and with his opening shot,
Bete scored a bull. But the other nine
shots did not even leave a mark
on the target.
_ “How do you account for these
misses?” snapped the sergeant.
vet first one must have been be- ginner’s luck.”
_ “Sorry, sergeant,” apologized the
recruit. “I thought I had to get all
the bullets through the same hole.”
f fi RY NY
fi i: Fair Warning: If you don’t like
_ moron, scram! There’s one in our
2 a couse who always sleeps with his
i feet outside the covers because he
a doesn’t want those cold things in bed
with him.—UWO Gazette.
a VV. V
Be itéron More of This Foolishness.
And then there was the little
in oron who took hay to bed with him
so he could feed his night mare.

UJ

 

if "Sire: Lady Godiva rides without.
" Amother Sire (after looking with4 out): Very tactfully put, my man.

P —The Sheaf.
» the sugar supply is on the

wane,

“Let's you and IJ start raising cane.
a

nd a patriotic note to finish with:

Pe fg re OT

( ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Zz Y¥.M.C.A. Building - B-7530
: ‘$81 Baarrington Street

_ (31 Spring Garden Road - B-6440
_) We Specialize in CORSAGES
Q and All Kinds of Design Work

  

 
 
    

  

    
  

=

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

70 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9754

    

 
 

| Give .

‘uncommon.

    
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 

 

(IN VIEW OF COMING EVENTS — (WAMELY
SADIE HAWKING WEEK-) Tris Looxs BAG!

5/a/es

IN THE GROOVE
_A Column of Record News and Reviews

 

1942 ON DISCS. Last year was
an exceptionally fine year for the
record business—if you’ll pardon the
pun, a record-breaking year. Bestselling records that sold a _halfmillion copies were by no means
A year ago we danced
to Glenn Miller’s “Chattanooga Choo
Choo” and Freddy Martin’s happy
pairing of “Rose O’Day” and “Miss
You”, the latter not being a smash
until early spring. Then came Artie
Shaw’s “I Don’t Want to Walk
Without You, Baby”, preceded, of
course, by Horace Heidt’s Columbia
hit, “I Don’t Want to Set the World
on Fire”. Summer brought us Jimmy Dorsey’s (Decca) “Jersey
Bounce”, Bing Crosby’s “Moonlight
Cocktail”, and—who could forget—
Harry James’ “Sleepy Lagoon”.
Early Fall, and “My Devotion”, with
Charlie Spivak and Vaughan Munroe’s platters of sare hitting the
top, was on every one’s Hit Parade.
“White Christmas” and “There Are

-|Such Things” (by Tommy Dorsey’s

superb new orchestra) shared early
winter honours.

D ee @
elirium

It is announced that the O.T.C.
has won a major victory. Four
dangerous outlaws have been apprehended. These are the four musketeers Martin, Moore, Maddin and
Moffat. As is by now well known,
Martin has already been executed; it
is only a matter of hours before
the others face the firing squad.
The charge is negligence and desertion. Alimony is not considered.

There sailed a ship in the dark before dawn. The ship is called the
Caribou II, and Captain Colquhoun
is at the helm. And when the fuel is
low, and the ship cannot sail, always
the same people are late for class.
And Patten and Hall become quite
athletes when the fuel is low.

Windsor is shortly to have a distinguished visitor. The Medieval
Teutonic knight, Philip von Kole,
is about to venture down the valley,
and will spend the week-end in
Windsor, of course. Fearfully unoriginal, the von Kole, always going
to Windsor, always to Windsor.

Then there is the story of Ainsley
Atkins. He called up a girl he knows
to ask her to a dance, but found she
had been married in the meanwhile.
There seems to be a question of relative speed involved in such a
situation.

How much of this-column is expended on first year students! How
riotous they are, and unruly! For
instance that fellow Uppie Moffat—

|he wasn’t going to be satisfied to
- |take one girl to the Phi Ro formal,

but he wanted two for good measure,

'|Only a sad telegram restored him

to his rightful mind in time.

Tt has been said that there were
el; quarts of beer drunk
i Chi a week ago last Wednes
: oe eee one expect

Critically speaking, the quality of
1942 records was extraordinarily
high in standard, the dance melodies
and vocal platters leaning towards a
strongly rhythmical, sentimental
type of song. Bing Crosby having
reached the position where almost
anything he records is a best seller
(he plugged “Deep in the Heart of
Texas” till it was swung rather than
played in fox trot tempo), the year
merely added another feather to his
cap. Dinah Shore strengthened her
place as leading feminine vocalist to
the point where she, not Kate Smith,
sells nearly every record to the tune
of one hundred thousand copies.
Two bands rose to the top this year,
those of Harry James and Vaughan
Monroe. Noteworthy, too, was the
addition of a string section to so
many leading orchestras, Tommy
Dorsey, and Jan Savitt completely
revamped their styles to the detriment of their brass section, and now
lean prominently towards the sweet
side. Savitt was foolish enough to
discard the “shuffle” rhythm that
made him famous.

Unfortunately, 1942 will probably

At a recent meeting of the class
of ’43 it was finally recognized by all
that the Engineers are the most important group on the campus. We
quote from Bob Mussett: “We need
not consider the Arts students.”

eS oe Er

We are very proud to offer our
congratulations to Prof. Copp on being elected honorary president of the
class of 1943.

On vas

Since Wiswell has broken off relations with one resident of the Hall
we understand that Bill Hagen is
keeping in touch with her sister.
For Bill’s sake we hope the trains
keep up their schedule.

ri oe

Was that really Bob Wickwire we

saw at the Tech Ball last Friday?
Pe at

The Engineers take this opportunity to issue a challenge to any
other society to a game of hockey.
Commerce and Medicine take note.

bans

A romance, we have it on reliable
authority, is under way between one
George Howard and a certain Miss
Florence MacDermaid.

 

 

be the last decent year for records
“for the duration”. Having weathered two great setbacks, the effects
of which are just now being felt, it
set a standard that 1943 cannot
possibly maintain. No new records
have been recorded since July 1942,
because the Petrillo ban on AFM recordings has not yet been rescinded.
Therefore, since all records that were
anyways fair have been released,
there will be few new records.
Then, too, there is the shellac shortage, made acute when the Japs
captured Malaya. We in Canada are
even more unfortunate than our
American cousins, for some uwnthinking idiot in Ottawa passed an
edict saying that no metal for nonwar purposes may be imported from
U. S. As a consequence, the metal
matrices from which the records are

 

  
  

THE NATIONAL FISH CoO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

   
  
  
     

 

-Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“NORTHWEST RANGERS”
“POLICE BULLETS”

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“THE LIVING GHOST”
“CODE OF THE OUTLAW”

GARRICK
*

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday
“JOHNNY DOUGHBOY”
with JANE WITHERS

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday
“MOON OVER MIAMI”
with Don Ameche, Betty Grable
“MAN HUNT”

Walter Pidgeon - Joan Bennett

“OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday

“WAR AGAINST
“THOMAS HADLEY”

“MOKEY”
Wednesday and Thursday
“EYES IN THE NIGHT”

aOR SERVIVES”
MURDER”
= and Saturday
: “GENTLEMAN a CORBETT”

 

    
  
  
 
 
   
 

   
  
  
   
   
   
   

   
  
 

 
   
  
  
   
  
 

 

   
  
  
 
    
   
  
  
  

 

CAPITOL

Monday - Tuesday - Wed.
*

“Yankee Doodle
Dandy”

(Held Over)

*

“Th e
Black Swan”

TYRONE POWER
MAUREEN O’HARA

 

 

CASINO
*

Saturday, Feb. 6
A NIGHT
TO REMEMBER
CO-STARRING
LORETTA YOUNG
BRIAN AHERNE

and

SIDNEY TOLER

   
  
  
   
   

DAL DAZE

Truly amazing the things that

happen around this campus, aside
from Engineers that is. Take
‘tother day, fo’ ’instance. Seems
there was more or less advanced
class in modern History jiggling
along its merry way with its full,
or perhaps even a little more tham
that, quota of stately seniors from
Shirreff Hall in attendance.
The lecture finally arriving
through some sidetracks, at a discussion of the franchise, the genial
prof quoted: “The first female vote
was granted in 1918 for women over
50. Of course no women voted. The
Flapper Vote was granted in 1927
to women over 21. By the way, how
many of you have a vote?”

Not one girl raised her hand.

* * %
‘ And then there was the class in
which deep, deep things such as the
Freedom of Discussion and Validity
of Opinion were being dragged over
the coals. In the midst of an aweing silence, while thoughts were being collected for the next bout, one
silver-tongued grad spoke out loud

 

pressed in Canada are not available
to RCA Victor (Victor and Bluebird)
the Compo Co., (Decea), or Sparton
(Columbia).

The inevitable result will be that,
when the present stock of melodies
wears thin, old hits like “Star Dust”
“Smoke Gets In Your Eyes”, “The
Song Is You”, “I Got, Rhythm”
“Sophisticated Lady”, “Love Walked In”, “Love In Bloom”, “Cocktails
For Two”, et al. And along with
what new records that are released,
this column will mention some of the
more outstanding records of the last
several years which, if you’re forming or adding to your collection, are
recordings that any platter-bug will
be glad to possess.

~-- YOu can

in refreshment.

A special blend of flavouressences merges all the in
into a unique, original
taste of its own.

There are many ways
to quench thirst, but ,
ice-cold Coca-Cola
brings true refresh
ment.
* * *

It’s natural for popular
names to acquire friendly
abbreviations. That’s
why you hear Coca-Cola
called Coke. Both mean
the same thing...
“coming from a single
source and well
known to the community.”
a eo

ae

“yy

ee eae aN an
AH - pt See

‘oo or ott had
, Delicious -and

ras

ae a ” The best is always the better buy!

That bitin Something!

spot it every time

IKE “winning a letter,” keeping

out in front of the others takes

an extra something. Coca-Cola has
it—in taste... in quality...

The finished art that comes
from 57 years of practice goes

_ into the making of Coca-Cola. .

gredients of Coca-Cola f

} ft oe
o

an er oe

iC Ty. obs

ment oat énything is possible.
Take Prof. Stewart for instanee. He
spends 20 minutes a day arguing
with himself shone when the war is
going to en

WHAT THESE PROFESSORS.

WON’T DO NEXT.

* *

This one comes from the Gym

Store, where such things happen.
Seems there was present, among the
multitudes slowly poisoning themselves with Roy’s Devil-Drafter (one
coffee ration coupon given free with
each cup) a certain large, wellknown, new 2nd When Sue
dashed lightly down the stairs, and

 

delicately extracting a thumb-tack.

from her pocket, fastened to the
wall a peremptory notice that there
was to be no Open House at Shirreff
that Sat. said Engineer’s jaw dropped somewhat more than somewhat.
Sue having left, and his voice recoyered: “Does that mean the Halil will
be closed this Saturday?” he quer.
ied desperately. On being assured
that it only meant the formal gathering was postponed, and he would
still be able to trip over, a beautific
smile spread slowly o’er his timeworn countenance, as he murmured
“Thank God”,

WHICH SHOULD PROVE SOMETHING.

2 | Te?

Many and interesting are the experiences experienced in this same
Emporium in the awakening hours
between 12.30 and 1.30 of a day, as
famished frosh, starving sophs, and
etc., drift in to abuse the inner man
(or woman) with ham-on-white and
two cokes. What we mean is: we
had just staggered through hamburger, et al, last Tuesday, when,
from the midst of a crowd of En
'gineers clustered around the. counter

came a distinctly unmasculine yoice,
belonging, we later found upon investigation, to what T-Square refers
to modestly as an anonymous
“Ukrainian lass”. “Oh, Weelly,”’ it
said, “Oh, Weelly, please don’t. I
have week hands.”

Ah, THESE WEAK-END PARTIES

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
     
  
         
    

 

§ With war, there’s less Coca-Cola. So
Coca-Cola, first choice, sells out first
—sometimes it may not be in the red
cooler. Worth waiting for nee those
times when ‘ *The Coke’s in”

THE ‘COCA- COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

634

 

_DALHOUSIANS ...

    
  

  
 
 

   
  
  

490 BARRINGTON STREET

for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

   
    
    
 
 

   
   

LORD NELSON HOPEL

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
      
 
     
    
    
  
   
 
    
     
  
    
   
   
   
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
    
  
    
   
     
 
  
   
   
   
   
     
   
    
   
 
     
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
     
    
      
    
       
    
       
 
  
  
   
    
  
   

 

 

 

       
   
   
 
   
        

ane | Ayr it DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |
vy lake Measure of Tigers, Cubs) — speakine oF FIGURES

 

Ry its Intimate Glimpses of College Life -- No.17 With the distribution of the new Halifax Tele
Lose To Khaki, 33-18; ue 3: pte aye
Blasted By Blue 64-18

This does not constitute a number change, but
merely a change in the method of listing. The “S’” on
the dial will be r i : ine “ope
- Both Dal teams continued losing ways in the City’s Senior ee oar ail eee ae
— and Intermediate loops Saturday night, as senior Army took ° y aa pe
the measure of the big cats 38-18, while the little cats were | will be replaced by its corresponding figure ‘‘6’’.
simply not there to the tune of 64-18. Neither game was in
ibt for the victors, though Tigers put up a good battle. As
~ for the luckless Cubs, they simply bear out an old Dal truth
that you have to make the boys senior players before they
_ start clicking.

| —s«*The Army led 16-9 at the end of the first half, led by Piers, Bellagh,
f. ie i Brown and Trudy, while Van Dyke with five points, Ralston and White
a ty _wiith two each got the Tigers’ counts. Coach Ralston led the Tigers into
_ the second half with the same results. In this frame Burnie had six
- points, while D’Arcy added a couple.

|| Maritime Telegraph & Telephone
Co., Limited

 

i wy - Mitchell Stars Navy: Mills 10, Lubin 6, Patteryi Ta the other game, more properly | 50n 2, Devitt 18, George 14, Bald-_ # fiasco, Navy chalked up score after |Win 10, Best 4.
te ring Referees: McKimmie, Ralston,
i Pt Rea Bare Piers. High up under the eaves of the Science building, Gazette photographer
n effort. Fort the Cubs Mitchell was | Don Oland caught his classmates in Geology One in a fighting pose. Most
fad

of the men here depicted are Engineers, except Ross Quigley of Com- |

the best man, his ten points compar- ae ae
pa ; ey ; merce, seen with characteristic pipe.

late - ing with all the Navymen had to
ra, offer. Fraser with four, and Hubley ante

 

by BOB McCLEAVE
Sorry girls, we’ve been neglecting | | Zl MUM I/NNNNNNNINNNNNNNNNLNMNNnn tN MiH Ati HANH HA

you, and fell from some pertinent According to DIPO, a column of campus opinion, parlor rugby, that
| bulletins announcing your prac- || #™ourous rassle with sighs for a count, is acknowledged as popular once

SVUVSIRRNUMITTTNSN TANASE AT QMRULUEL DUDA DSA UEP LUI fl QUINN OCU tk QYUUULTOCSUACPUUNLU OSU ESN TAELT EA We |
fhe’ and Pope with two each gave the = e
yh ‘K Oub total. Female Sports Columnist = S PO) be | < C) = Si Ci’) 9 - =
fae) Lineups : ; = =
| _- ‘Pigers: D’Arcy 2, Ralston 8, Van (Apply Editor) = =

Pee Dyke 5, Hart, Vatour, Dunbrack,
- Oakley, White.

| ‘Army: Ballagh 12, Van Sickle,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

___ Nickerson, Piers 10, Brown 6, Trudy tine That lly h more. Or at least it rears its head as a prospective major sport. ConRes 5. en ae ee nected with it are such terms as “alcovitis”’, clinches, rights to the heart,
wr Cuba: Mitchell 10, Pope 2, Fraser |} thing underway. ete. It looks as if Ju-Jitsu a la Casanova is to the fore. In the interests . rt
* 4, Vautour, Clark, McKenzie, Hub- So, how about it? of this game, we shall follow the lead of regualr Sport-O-Scoper Ed Quality and style to suit the high
Gres! ley 2. Morris, and give some rules for it. won t f th Hidont f
i Ni Obviously the first requisite is to|of an accent to show signs of life. > ec pa al ©, PRUGenes ,D
eB ¥ get partners. If a male, choose a| This accent may range from the Dalhousie will be found at the
tie ii woman of the feminine sex (it seems| Brooklynese: “I luvya Baba, yur ; h
> ae | to us we’ve heard that gag before;|gawjus,” to the Oxford: ‘Rilly this largest Furriers in the East.
tk Ai it’s like that ‘who was that lady I/is sentimental rot,” to the Jukese:
Lg! saw you with last night?’ ...). If| “Love, here’s your dove”, or “What’s
Ne the participant is a woman, choose |clickin’, chicken?” to the final Dal: *
ay something with long pants, possibili- | “Babe, this is your big moment”.
ey ties for a moustache, and some sort} However, to get back to general
i SC ‘rules. There should preferably be MARITIME FURRIERS LIMITED
a ‘no audience. If there is a little 2 as !
eh NV’? | as Beethoven Featured | brother around, delight his sweet lit- SACK VILLE STREET, HALIEAS
Us SS ; 'tle heart (dammit) with a nickel, or
ie Pa SS Wie At Club Meeting an imitation of a gangster. Rememig SX aN ce The Dalhousie Music Club held its| ber, here is the only game in the See
Kt bacon See second meeting on Sunday afternoon|world where you sometimes pay to
ify N at the home of Miss Joan Archibald,| play. (This extends to such awk-|f}| “Heat Merchants Since 1835”
yee dae as 204 Robie Street. The temporary| ward phases as Alimony in later|]|
x, ae committtee which had been set up/life). There may be bigger and betBi. ee WP] last week. was reorganized and a|ter audiences, her mother and father.
rte SY permanent committee was then elect-| If such be the case, parlor rugby S. Cunard & Co.., Ltd.
yi NW > NG® | ed, standing as follows: 'should be played at a discreet disa SS SS President—Harry Zappler |tance, and in an abstract’ manner.
f NV FW Mus. eed Gly Govavich | Obviously one shouldn’t pant with HARD COAL ror ts SOFT COAL
“a NS WN Social Convener—Myra Coldwell | passion at such a moment. a
AG ete Prva: Treasurer—Betty ee | A shady spot is required, then, and COKE FUEL OIL
f Secretary—Henry Carter |some sort of solitude, so that asinine
Bri. The members listened to the all|affection can rule _ uninterrupted. *
ye — Beethoven programme presented | Let us place the two, seated together
i by the New York Philharmonic- lat some imaginary amouroasis, rub
oy Symphony Orchestra, conducted by}|some silky sweet nothings together, |
re” HORIZONTAL HORIZONTAL (Cont.)| VERTICAL (Cont.) Bruno Walter. The concert opened|and watch the fire of love mount |} a 3 ;
naan tAgreement 48-Stupid person 16—-Comparative suffix with the “Overture to Egmond”, and higher, On second thought, let’s Halifax, N. , Dartmouth, N.
ea.) ieeeretrctes tt Pronoun was followed by the “Symphony No.|mot << |
nate {@-Surface 55-Chief actor 24-Cut 8.” After the short intermission, SOS
eee Gita, (ee settee teem, alee eth! toon > [RedoIDh Serkin, quest soloist with) Armough Dalhousie is experiene
ie | 46—Scorched 9-Web-like 28-A constellation the orchestra played Beethoven's) jing a poor sports year, after a fash-  .  W¥-Stings membrane 29-Crimson great piano “Concerto No. 5, (the|jon, the same generous support
ne ( ee a ieee Patveiative osstiiae Emperor).” ‘accorded a winning team should still
A Py #2-Especialiy (abbr.) 32—Prefix. Asunder Before this musical concert began, be given. While the Saturday night
By 23-Because VERTICAL 37—Pertaining to the the group discussed the life of| ames in the Gymnasium interfere
it ee iene degree 1-Gone by hak aatent Beethoven and some of his great with “Hit Parade” time, and stuff é
bh _ (abbr.) 2-Melody 41-Relieved works. Mr. Zappler skillfully illus-| like that, it should be everybody out |
ayn) 27-Dimmer 3-Pertaining to a 42-Put off trated many of the composer’s| that can.
yy te Meee tion avert aes t carde themes on the piano. . Bouquets can well be accorded te Most Canadians prefer Neilson’s
ee 34—Dare 5-Member of military |46-Country of Europe Following the programme delight- Ralston-coached quintettes, for they Jersey Milk Chocolate for its
OH fee ies school (abbr.) ful refreshments were served, and) are relatively inexperienced, and are | delici FI d
cr ‘ Pie aelen beat riee yl iterary e api a CaS at the conclusion of the meeting, &4\ meeting the cream of Canada’s ath- | elicious Flavor and wonderrh 40-Comparative suffix composition 50-Slide vote of thanks was extended to Miss||etic crop. However, it’s too early | ful Food Value.
yy mace , DRAN rine Sil acont Archibald for her gracious hos-/to cast about for pretty Meera
Me!) 44-Cure hides 10-An hiseet (pl) Sy cA tend meneure pitality. . __| Gwhich gym never seems to bring)
he} 46-Withers 11-File down (abbr.) The next meeting of the club will|to throw on a dead season. There | ;
Be be held-on Saturday, Feb. 6, at) are more games in the offing, and
8 p.m. at 410 Tower Road. Hostess! while Cubs seem fairly hopeless, |

will be Miss M. Ells. 'Tigers should get generous support.

The programme will consist of: the; For that matter, so should the|
Overture to Oberon (Weber); Italian | Junior group. The Intermediate}
Symphony (Mendelssohn); Violin|teams they are facing are powerConcerto in E Minor (Mendelssohn) ; | packed with players, as can be judg. |
Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2 (Lizt);|ed by the calibre of last year’s “Y”
and Symphony No. 5 (Tschaikow-|jintermedes. The boys:are out on that |

i Regs
sky). Anyone interested will be/ floor giving their time in an apparently hopeless cause, but they’re

 

‘| most welcome. |

T. (Clet Lot, LOR tebe Tee ive | buildin ru he senior champions we
DEPARTMENT OF | shall nag eae year. ‘on
UTTER CONFUSION | Sos

(Things that are not likely to be | The girls are coming along with
questioned again section). is

some good basketball talent, and are “a ¥ Chocolate
1. Harvard Ph.D. student proves) calling regular practices. Appalled ; Made
there are 16,550 hairs on a man’s Pee ea

at the lack of sport correspondents, AP! R
neck. pn | re .

5 we are asking one of the femmes to

; 2. Gallop Poll in Tibet finds that) ¢ood-naturedly come forward and

Bi I OP 50%o0f married people are wo0-|take a by-line column on the sportmoe men.

ing world. Will somebody volunteer
3. Political Science 5 class decides) or will we have to dust off one of our

that two plus two equals four. male reporters.

 

¥
A “ ‘ . iil =a s arb. Sat
