 

 

AND SCIENCE

 

    
 
 

prey uN ML
g~AMPUS
| \“LIPPINGS
By EUGENE MERRY
SASUPRRAULLNAUAGROTONNONUULQADUUOSAUAGANTUASAUAUSAOLY SDI USNO AE EAT:
Thought of the week: Freedom is
not a primitive right but a civilized
achievement; it is the gift, not of
X lawless savagery but of a well ordered society.
—Will Durant.
yO V
The Harvester’s Song
I left my arm in the threshing

—s«<’:s left it there where I cut it off
i clean.

I tried to pitch the sheaves in

But I just couldn’t catch on,

I tried to pitch the sheaves in

Now my arm’s gone.

 

I must go back to the college
routine,
And every student knows what that
will mean,

A college boy without an arm.
~“  Gan’t have any fun or do any harm
Amd omy arm’s in the threshing
a a Student harvesters will not receive
_——_ eredit for C.0.T.C. time lost during
| their absence. All students must put
in the required 110 hours of military
training during the academic year.

—The Gateway.
rey

A fat old lady struggled valiantly
to mount the high step of the waiting bus.

“Come along, Ma!” urged the

rf . conductor. “They ought to have
Ne - given you more yeast when you was
a gal; then you would be able to
rise better.”

“Yes, young man”, retorted the
old lady, as at last she hoisted
triumphantly up. “And if they’d
given you a bit more yeast you'd

_ be better bred”.
—The Brunswickan.
aE
One COTC’er to another:

 

—McGill Daily.
oy) OV

 

ey

e “A short while ago I saw one of

our Cadets get the fastest promo
| a 7

} tions I ever heard of.
po. helother:'  Fi. “How was that?”
- The first:

“Well he was walking down the
street and he wasn’t walking for five
minutes when he picked up a couple

of pips.” |

rere

i VoVoV
ae Little Willie hanged his sister;

_ She was dead before they missed

— Anon.

  

        
   
       
        
      
       

Seniors Meet: Decide
On Year Book Pictures

In a fanfare of chatter, the class
of ’43 held its first meeting of the
year Tuesday noon in Room 3,
President Blanchard Wiswell presiding. Discussion centered around the
method of taking pictures for
“Pharos”, and a vote was held to
determine whether a schedule alphabetically arranged should decide the
question or individual appointments.
The vote was 22 (male) against 21
(female) and a tie was accordingly
declared by unmathematical engineers.

Final decision: to have individual
appointments made, and a list to be
posted with all names enscripted, the
graduates having their pictures

Continued on page 4

To Appoint Army
Officer To O.T.C.?

Promotions in the O.T.C. were announced from, headquarters yesterday, a lieutenant promotion, several
Sergeants being created, and two
Quarter-Master Sergeants. It is understood an officer as assistant to
the Chief Instructor, Major Hogan,
would shortly be obtained. Details
will be found exclusively in the
Gazette shortly.

Plans are being made by the headquarters to intensify field craft and
manoeuvres, it was also announced.
An innovation into OTC accounting
is a new system being organized by
Captain Jewett and staff, standard
throughout the Canadian army.

Appointments are: to be Temporary Lieutenant, 2nd Lieut. W. J.
MacInnes; to the A/C. S. Majors,
A/C. Q.M.S. C. M. Kineaide, A/Set.
A. W. Macdonald; to be A/C. Q.M.
S., A/Cpl., L. Mitchell, Cadet G. O.
Henneberry; to be A/Sgts., A/Cpls.
W. P. Kapak, J. E. Milligan, R. L.
Quigley.

One Moment Please

Student immunization will be held
at the Dalhousie Public Health
Clinic, Morris St., on November 25th
at 7.30 p.m. This is the second night
for Schick testing, and may be the
last time you will be able to be
Schicked this term.

 

The provisional timeé-table for
examinations in Arts and Science
has been posted on the boards. Any

| omissions or conflicts should be re
ported immediately to the Office of
the Registrar.

HALIFAX, N. S.. NOVEMBER 20, 1942

 

ADOPT

 

On These Steps, Work for Countless Germans?

Text of Security Lecture

Below is reprinted in full Captain David MacLellan’s address on
Security, given in the Dalhousie Gymnasium last Thursday evening.
In the interests of collegian understanding of the critical nature of
this port, we are able to secure the text, through the kindness of
Major Hogan and Captain MacLellan. It follows:

Ladies and Gentlemen of Dalhousie, St. Marys,
and the Technical College:

Eight years ago almost to the day I stood on this stage,
playing the part of a love-sick old man of 65 in the opening
Freshman play of the fall term. The script called for me to fall
in love with a sweet young thing of 64 or so—with whom I had
gone to school 50 years before. To our mutual embarrassment,
we discovered in the middle of a really touching love scene that
an eavesdroper was sitting in a chair nearby. He had heard all
our sweet nothings—and I can tell you that we were a very confused old couple. At least, that was what we tried to convey in
our Glee Club production of 1934.

No. 8

CONSTITUTION

Reformed Society Embarks On
Ambitious, Moneyless Program

A new constitution was adopted by the Arts and Science
yesterday at its first meeting of the year. President Helen MacKay presided over the meeting, which was characterized by less
of the book-throwing and general hullabaloo (and funds) of
former years. Just where the new society will wind up is difficult to adjudge: stumbling blocks include lack of faith of many
who have undergone bitter disappointment in the past, besides

the fund trouble. A comimttee of Kel Antoft, Don

, Oland, and Irma MacQuarrie, societ

iis Cds Saideaees amon ee cee oe
° te the missing money. It was

Reading Group--Hold |:

First Meet Tonight

 

 

| revealed last year’s treasurer, Miss
Anne Goodever, had not seen any of
the money during her tenure of
office. The committee will ges in
touch with Mrs. B. (Inez Smith)
Sunderland, Montreal, last year’s
President, to determine a course of

A reading group sponsored by the
Glee Club, and consisting of a series
of lectures on poise, personality,

   

  

      

 

Bo hen ____ Everything would have been okeyPS de Bolee,
\, But sister couldn’t take a choke.
i eas —Queen’s Journal.
eR yt Y Vv |
According to the McGill Daily an
early call-up of those taking Arts
_ courses is expected. Dean Tompson
expects that in a short time all
‘:°* students who are not taking courses
_-_ eontributing directly to the war ef| fort will be called up.
. McGill Daily.

  

Lost Property
Several articles found in class
rooms and on the Campus have been
taken to the Registrar’s Office and
will be handed over on satisfactory
proof of ownership.

   
 

    
      

   

‘

     

x

       

 

     
  

The Women’s Club of Toronto announces a literary competition open
to professional and non-professional
writers throughout the Dominion for
a prize of $100 for a play suitable
for radio production, dealing with
an event in Canadian History or
Some definite phase of Canadian
life. A notice has been placed on
the board in the Arts Building.

 
    

    
       
  
   

) LM!
} | —-- Music professor trying to set a
- definite date for the next rehearsal:
_.. “If there is anyone who isn’t here
. this time, but who will be here next

    
   
   
  
    
  
 
 

  
 
  

  

 

re
“hE
7,

time—will he please raise his hand. | _ Tuesday, Nov. 24, there will be a
—_—_— a | noon meeting in Room 3 on Cooperthe library will remain open in| z The “GOD HELP
evenings from now on, it was|'T |

Dae
. wee:
cis

 

i

  

   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

 
 

'
ue
Ae Exes

 
 

  

Fy
t 1 Ae
—s

Tonight, as I stand on this stage,
there may be another kind of eavesdropper in our midst. If any of us
say things we shouldn’t, we may
discover too late that we have spoken out of turn in the presence of an
enemy agent. And, just as dangerous, We may discover we have spoken out of turn in the presence of a
“friend” who couldn’t keep his mouth
shut.

Today, in this port of Halifax, we
face a situation of serious actual and
potential danger,—the rumor situation. If I told you that 100 German spies were loose in Halifax, you
might well say that things had come
to a pretty pass. If I told you that
1,000 German spies were in Halifax
at this moment, you would regard
the war as good as lost.

No, there aren’t a thousand German spies in Halifax, as far as we
know, not even a hundred. But there
are tens of thousands of people in
Halifax and Dartmouth who are
broadcasting to the winds enough
information about our defences and
our port activities to keep scores of
Germans busy writing it all down!

This is a highly dangerous and unhealthy situation for any fortified
zone such as the Fortress of Halifax, which we all know as one of the
most important operational and supply bases for the cause of the United
Nations.

Campus Information.

You know here on Studley campus
almost as quickly as we do at Military Headquarters when a certain
ship comes in. You know here on
Studley campus almost as much as
we do about the numbers and types
of troops sailing in a certain convoy. You know these things without
going near the harbor for a month
on end. Why do you know? How
do you find out?

I would suggest that it is no effort
for you to collect precious information. You can sit in the University
store or on the steps of Macdonald
Library and somebody—somebody—
will open his mouth and start talking. Somebody who refuses to recognize the reality of war. Somebody
who is a dangerous fool.

I give you of Dalhousie your own
case aS an example, because you
know it so well. The same sort of
thing goes on wherever people congregate in Halifax and Dartmouth,
on street cars, in restaurants, at
dances, in clubs, on the harbor ferry
—everywhere. —

Can you measure, can you gauge
the immensity of the problem, the
ghastly peril of it all? Truro, New
slasgow, Sydney, Moncton—are just

OE o *tey e
; in es —"

Don’t think for a minute that we
are forgetting the servicemen who
talk too much. There are too many
man in uniform who also abuse the
freedom of their tongues. And you
may rest assured that we are dealing with that problem, too.

If you found a German spy on
Studley campus, your first inclination probably would be to bash his
head in, to nail him to the goalposts
on the football field. What, pray,
would you like to do to a Canadian
who betrays his country, to the infernal fool whose tongue sinks our
ships and drowns our men? At least
a German spy follows an ancient
and patriotic, although somewhat
risky trade.

I think you will agree that the
Canadian who is either traitor
enough, or fool enough, to give or
to spread vital information shouud
be shot like a spy—preferably with
dum-dum bullets or buekshot!

Loose talk is hard to pin down.
Nothing can'be more difficult than
to define talk that borders on rumor,
or rumor that borders on violation
of the Defence of Canada Regula
|tions. A law student or°a member
of one of Professor Jewett’s classes
who has argued the meaning of a
phrase can imagine how hard it is
| to prove the guilt of a rumor-mong}er In a court of justice, to prove
that he intended to break the law.
Germany has ceased to bother with
definitions. Canada prefers the democratic way.
Recipe For Victory...

I want to speak to you now of
what you can do to help us, to help
yourselves, to help Canada; for it is
getting late in the game. You of the
universities and colleges represent
an important section of informed, intelligent public opinion. As a young,
active, dynamic group you are capable of exerting mass action which.
can do much to shaps and to guide
public opinion. As such, we are calling on you for assistance in the
campaign to kill rumor and gossip.

Do all you can to avoid saying
things yourselves that you shouldn't.
Vastly more important, constitute
yourselves as an active, militant
spearhead, a powerful nucleus of
rumor-fighters and gossip-killers.

Eam the reputation for Dalhousie,
for St. Mary’s, for the Technical
College, that no man or woman can
repeat a rumor in your midst and
get away with it.

Go out into the city among your
friends and win converts to the
cause.

Never write a letter

a vit a 4 " , F
a a f

 

  

 
  

that has one

+ mahagie
 
 

be given, commencing at 7.30 tonight in the Arts Building, Bernard
Levitz, president of the Glee Club,
said last night.

Mrs. Carl Clark will be director.
She is a dramatics teacher having
experience with schools and private
pupils in the city. The meetings are
for those not only interested in the
stage but also in public speaking.
Turn out, Demosthenes-minded, as

}
gestures and voice projection, will
well as the Bernhardt-bent.

‘Good Band--No
Place To Go?

“All dressed up and no place to
go”. That time-worn phrase seems
to aptly sum up the position of the
Dal Band these days. After starting off amid a fanfare of good-will
and high expectations, the Band almost at once ran into difficulties,
first with instruments, then with
practices, but its enthusiastic members ,persevered in their efforts to
bring music to the shrinking soul of
Studley, and finally, several weeks
after it was first promised, the Band
made its debut at the Pep Rally
Nov. 5, and the big game with
Acadia the following day.

Both performances more than justified the faith of its supporters and
the work of its members. At the
last Student Council meeting a
special grant was made to the organization. Now with money in the
bank, players “ready, willing and

able,” the assurance of enthusiastic
Continued on page Four

action in locating the funds, or see

if all were returned to the various
classes. No reports were available.
In the meantime, classes will be
aasked to donate $10 each,
Included in the new society will be
the B.Sc. Engineers. This will.come
as a surprise perhaps to most of
them, but is a partial solution to
financial difficulties experienced
when the Senior class was asked
Tuesday to donate ten dollars and
engineers in the class arose in
| wrath.

Elections of various officers were
held at the meeting. Larry Suther/land won the post of D.A.A.C. representative. Barbara White the
Dramatic Manager’s post, and Mary
Johnson the activities manager. gf

Plans in the future: production of
Arts and Science play, musical festival, and the idea of publishing one
issue of the Gazette. This was
written into the constitution, more
| quickly written out when Editor Bob

McCleave pointed out there was no

authority behind such a const’ :
tional move, and questioned whether
the Arts and Science presumed teo
much. He stated his willingness to
allow them to put it out, provided
| an editor of the Gazette staff should
| have a voice in the policy.

Constitutional changes will be by
a vote of 75% of a meeting. General
concensus of opinion was the newly
reformed society could go places
under its present executive, provided
skeptics of the Senior class could
'forget a rather hazy past of the
| Arts and Science.

 

 

 

DIPOe¢

Dalhousie Institute of
Public Opinion

Ad,

 

   
 
  

tm Ese Aten ran
, = me nNeT 4 - : ge Z, y
4 mie “Lat Abner CF ra KS s Secona with POY
4er ” IF lie ont ll Seemed : ‘ ‘
: 3 = , e.
Y Ett  s

Should a French Government of North Africa Consist of
Free French or Former Vichy French Leaders?

The majority of opinion on this question was decidedly one sided.
The Free French should form the government of North Africa according
to 71% of those questioned. Only 10% favoured the establishment of
government by former Vichy French Leaders such as Darlan. Another
10% stated that neither of these parties should form the government of
North Africa, while 9% remained undecided. The general trend of
opinion was that though temporary advantages may be obtained by
negotiation with the former Vichy French, they should not be entrusted
with so important a task as the government of North Africa.

* * FF F

Should, War Work be Compulsory for Co-eds?

Student opinion was split upon this question. A slight majority, 52%
favoured: compulsory war work for co-eds, while 48% were against it.
The general line of opinion was that war work should be voluntary, and
co-eds should decide for themselves how much they would do. Others
insisted that the co-eds be placed on the same footing with the boys, and
that war work should be compulsory for them also. Some stated thaty
college studies were themselves war work, ze

Sg 23 2
Which is Your Favourite Comic Strip?

Final tabulations on this tantalizing question show that “Blondie”

is unquestionably Dal’s favourite comic strip, with 38% of all votes,

   

> a

a

 

 

a A eal

  
 
   
  
   
  
   
        
     
   
  
     
    

 

|

f

i a

a. |

?

ae

.* Avhost of others including;
uey” and “Superman” rank ~~ {
revealed in this week’s survey 4
hese literary (°) masterpieces. g
   
  
   

    

expressed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
h Oe centiet ba ances that they represent the opinion of
GAZETTE STAFF ’
; a3 - } CAE Abe yaa ae ene
Oe Re es PS ee ape 0 9S 8 PO (0.8 O % ee bster on
Lee Sepeioet. hee . net + Shields
UU Pert er oe eo cere ed orris
Editor Een he ke le ok) We oko) Pakor Do ate eke cst cy yewid Coldwell
a emekeat e OR aa Nit OS 5K 5 Nee Rb CR ae Mraaay
Me ale vehi civ ysncevecesce.<-Donald Oland
er caenenanr ths veeececeveeses-dames McLaren
Da arian Serene: Tie ©0888 2S -.8 894 Eileen P i: y

   
  
    
   
  

 

  

yet wr ms
J — Se 7 »
+ a" _ VRP
‘ward >

a 7

1)

5
i
nl ALUTC y
AVE: se oo
1 — ; he
- * ~
t
- :

+
- eae rat
Sa eorTapnti
KI = oo oe AN
4 “ROO! reade
er m, SF

, WLQiL

  

  

Dic eeaceeceovewsvacrueaetercenevers

e | is Funt
MM el Pe ie iva gs at «sd wace seeedeeseinavics se» DOTS
a eo My ae 8 y

oh ortorial staff: Boris Funt, Joyce Harvey, Kay Cox, James CampRet bell, | R. Tatreies, Hiaine Hopewell, Aneeta Goodman.

Ae
t A * ye
Fr - . ve. 2

   
   
  

=<

IN DEFENCE OF ares ot
 'Byen in: lays of the war, the gloomy
hi hate haspily | Bae diegalled by recent events, there was
never a thought in most peoples’ minds that we might lose
the war. Call it foolish optimism, blindness to reality, or a
th usand and one harsh names, it had a definite purpose in
keeping up morale until we were ready to begin an offensive
war. It was necessary in the development of the war from a
Y i osing battle to a winning battle. Remember at the first how
we idolized such an obscure and unconnected major incident
- as the sinking of the Graf Spee. That was the stage of the
war when we won a few incidents and lost many major battles.
Now it is different, and totally logical in its very difference.
Our forces are ganged in increasing might against the aes
The prospects of a peace are nearer now than in those 4
| _years of the war, characterized by the grim struggle of the
| British peoples, in a world where men and their see ape
| Bt adeeiced. euch a fight, and looked for another Empire with a
sun that ' r set.
“aed + ee hs the statement that few have believed in
| defeat in this war. The same optimistic spirit does not prevail,
i however, regarding the peace. A psychologist attached to the
| Wartime Prices and Trade Board (a college professor in peacetime, and a battletime conscriptee) pointed out in a little
; publicized interview that the majority of people do not believe
| we will win the peace. This is a strange situation, perhaps,
or is it? To unmistakably and with never a doubt to think ee
: __ erushing one of the world’s greatest military machines — the
steel Nazi juggernaut—and at the same time to regard the incomprehensible tactics of economics as a foe to which we can
ten we are not concerned predicting the form of this
struggle for stability in a war-shattered, peace-restored world.
| _Nor do we make inquiry into the “after the deluge, another
\ deluge” spirit of many Canadian people. We would only like to
- point out a suggested remedy.
In the last war, youths were conscripted wholesale from
% the colleges, and the country’s potential leaders in peacetime
\ -were left without the training necessary to lead the battle for
eth eee as ited for the war, but
{ maintaining of this peace. Admirably sui 0


  

_ jll-fitted they were for the great fight in leadership of a post{ wa rid. aN

a o This war, the government has granted exemption privi)  eges to college students, and has allowed them to finish their
 eollege courses before entering the armed services, or some
- branch of vital industry. Contrast this with the policies of
_ the United States and British governments. Canada’s policy
lies directly between them. |
a In Great Britain the student is allowed only one year of
' his Arts course, and then must enter the armed services, or
may continue with a technical course; the Science student will
F be allowed to finish his course before entering the services of
| the war effort. In the United States, indications are the college
| students will be eligible for draft, regardless. .

«Tt is a harsh “regardless”, as Raymond Gram Swing has
‘pointed out in a recent broadcast. He paints a grim prospect
| this vocalizing has been grim always) of a leaderless country
Bo in the peace. He urges the government to follow a more
moderate policy of call-up.
ey Canada’s problem, of war, is man-power. For three years
_ there has not been too great a strain upon the resources of the
- government to wean the civilian into the ‘services. But the
_ supply of man-power is failing, and degenerating into D-l’s and
E-unthinkables. LO eX

_ ‘There are signs in the wind indicating the call-up may be
extended to cover what is considered an unnecessary element
_ attending Universities—Arts, Commerce and Law students.

i We do not send up a terrible wail for Humanities at this
prospect, but for Humanity instead. As Artsmen, Commerce| _ men, or Lawyer-prospectives, students are willing and able to

y
at

_ enter into the services demanded of them, and if it is thought

_ their covrses are useless and detrimental to the good of the

4
J

_ country, then they will not continue them.
___ But the government should look to its horizons where it
iy. “may see the Peace, let it be hoped in a not too distant future.

It will be a Dove, too, but it should not be allowed to become a
ae

seo, i ge ee be oe SS) eee ae ee ee hee
LO anaes ~— SE et ae

a

_- There is danger though in deferment, in the face of a
__ eritical man-power situation, of the college students in the
faculties a war-sighted public may consider unessential. The
average Canadian has paid enough into the war effort in blood
-and money to want the fullest returns. A'fter the war what
_ availeth the power of qualified leadership if the public does not,
r rust the same, and calls the leader one who has been “slacker”.
It is a dangerous and interesting situation for the Arts.
__ Law and Commerce students. Whether they should be allowed
to continue their studies and enter the armed services qualified
_ for leading the war and peace is a question the government

 
  

    
  
  
    
  
    

  

      
      
  
   
 

  

4
—
. 4

will answer. How it should be answered is doubtless.
Tf it is answered with the continuance of the deferred
s for the questioned-groups, there may be needed some

education. There should not be too much of this. The
adian has shown himself marvellously patriotic and self_ Our losses at Dieppe were enormous for our country,
e have not moaned about them.
wages oT entig

zhtenment is victory—now and after.

 

 
    

i 2 ‘

Abert,

2 7 ‘ i
Re er c ie
| m at “ © > ote

 
 
 

      
    
     
     
 
     
 
 
 
 

}

U

 

 

 

il
t

eee add.
. -: 4 Yi ways

 

s

‘What does a best man do now?"
“Consoles himself with a Sweet Cap!"

   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
     
   
     
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
    
  
  
  
  
    
   
    
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
       
    
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
 
   
   
   
 
   

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked™

FARMERS’ MILK

Is Stimulating ...It Peps You Up!

23

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

> AS OS OO ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eS ee a en Se | A

THE

FLOWER SHOP

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED 37 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX
MO Phone B-7133
DRUGGISTS
rters for Students ;
Ree or Eat at...
oO EVANGELINE

TEA ROOM

564% SPRING GARDEN ROAD

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR ||
i B-9571

KENTVILLE, N. S.

 

Writing Equipment

Good writing equipment
makes for better notes
in classes.

Birks have good assortments in the popular
lines — Sheaffer, Parker
Waterman and Wahl.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller

’ Before any Meal

American Gem Society

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education,

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year,

| Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 

a ae Pe
bs 4 %, , = a Ke b
is F P ~~ rf. iz 7.
y a wit, ee

Pele} i + od . é

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
  

   
  
 

   

Life in the Country

A Short Story

With a loud squeak of the crank,
the bucket of water swung up to
the surface of the well. Ann let
go the handle and made a frantic
grab for the pail before it went
sliding down to the bottom. “Got
it, this time!” she exclaimed triumphantly, unhooking the pail and
preparing to carry it into the house.
“It’s a grand day—we deserve it
after the rain we had yesterday,”
she observed to the white cat that
had followed her.

 

Her eyes swept the scene before
her—the pale green of turnips and
parsnips, and the brown of dried
beans, the yellow of oat stubble
blending with the dark green grass
that rose steeply to meet the pale
orange of the horizon in a tangle
of brown and yellow birch bushes
and dark evergreens. Behind her
was a row of stately poplars, and
an old square shingled white house
with green shutters—a house situated in a garden by an orchard. A
low ell kitchen with a sagging roof
connected the back of the house
with a white barn.

Ann reluctantly turned back to
the house — inside she hurriedly
stirred the bacon, and pushed the
coffee pot to the back of the stove
to keep it from boiling over. She
went to the foot of the stairs and
called: “Dick, are you ready? —
Jean—Jean, are you up?” “Coming” and feet clattered down the

narrow stairs. “Oh! is breakfast
ready?” exclaimed Jean in well
simulated surprise — “I was going

to help you.” “Don’t make too
much noise—mother’s sleeping, she
had a bad night.’’ Ann looked at
her brother and sister. Dick was
swallowing his breakfast as rapidly
as possible, for he had a two mile
walk to Terford to catch the train
for his work in town. Jean was
supposed to help Ann with the
house work, but she: avoided it as
much as possible. None of the Mor
rows had liked moving to this small |

inconvenient house in the country,
but after Father died there hadn’t
been much money, and the doctor
had said the country would be better
for Mrs. Morrow. But Jean hated
it most of all—and spent as much
time as possible in town visiting
friends.

“Ann, you know I hate bacon
cooked too much,” Jean grumbled.
Then she went on brightly, “I think
Pll go in town with Dick, and visit
Amy. It’s so dull in this hole—
nothing ever happens. It’s not even
in the village.” Ann sighed, and
forbore to mention the work, vegetables to be picked, garden to be
spaded, and that the distance from

the village never kept Jean from
town.

Ann grimly washed the dishes
and cleared the house. She had
planned to dig potatoes, but while

she was picking apples for a pie, |
She went up-|

it began to rain.
stairs. From her bedroom window
she saw the lumber mill with its
Scattered piles of slabs and boards,
and its immense yellow sawdust
pile, and huddled shacks with the
thin brown ridge of the railroad
track behind. “I wonder where Ron
is now,” she mused. “I certainly
was a fool to send him away when
I loved him and when he wanted to
marry, just because I wouldn’t live
on a soldier’s pay. It almost seems
like fate that right after father
died, and we had to come out here.”
The black water of the river wag
slowly rising up the line of red
maples, and yellow birches and
green spruce which stood on the
further shore. The rain was pouring from a gray and leaden sky.
“I might as well practice my shorthand.” (Ann was taking a commercial course at home, but it was
slow work.) “If it rains any more

  
  
 

   

 

 

it looks as if we might have a
flood.”

“Did the potatoes burn, dear?
My, it’s raining hard! I do hope
Dick and Jean will be all right. I
wonder why all those cars are stopping up the road? Why, Mr.
Baxter, come right in.” “I just
stopped by to tell you, Mrs. Morrow, that the river has come up the
brook and flooded across the culvert
beyond my place,” said Mr. Baxter.
“There’s a big army truck there now
pulling the milk trucks out—being
lower they got wet on the way
over. I can’t get to the village, I
had to wade across and carry my
little boy on my back. Mr. Fraser
had to drive his horse across the
river, make it swim, and row behind it, his pasture across the river
is flooded. Jones lost a whole lot
of lumber. No, no one is drowned
yet that I know of. Those Norwegians that’s been cutting pit props
all year—well they lost the whole
lot of them down the river. I
reckon your boy’ll stay in town.
The water’s risen so that now it’s
almost level with the top of the
railroad tracks. Trains won’t be
going by here for a while—afraid
of washouts you know. Well, I
guess I’d better be on my way.
How are you feelin’?”

Mrs. Morrow spent the afternoon
running from one window to another watching the excitement. The
bug halted. Cars drove up and
Stopped. People viewed the calm
black water stretching over the
fields and lying five feet deep on
the road, and relentlessly rising
higher, and then regretfully returned the way they had come. A few
ventured across considering their
errand was worth the risk of a wet
engine and upholstery, and the
danger of slipping off the road.
Many engines coughed and died, and
one truck was kept busy hauling

| these out for the price of one

dollar.

The next day Ann was dusting.
The flood was beginning to subside.
She smiled as she thought of Dick’s
astonishment when he had come
home late last night. The kitchen
was lit by lamps. The room was
full of wet, bedraggled strangers,—
several women, three children having cookies and milk, a white-faced
man sitting with his feet in the

| oven while he sipped hot tea, and

Ann bustling about arranging
things to dry. _Their car had stall
| ed on the way across the water, and

all its occupants soaked. The poor
man—he had been injured in the
sinking of the “Fraser”—J] hope he
doesn’t get sick again—he looked SO
frail, and they were so grateful fo
a little help. This morning had been

|a hectic rush getting breakfast for

a dozen or so people who had stayed in their cars all night — there
wasn’t a hotel in miles.

' “But Dick’s surprise wasn’t anything compared to mine,” she
thought,—“bringing Ron with him
when I thought he was in Ontario.”
They had walked from the Junction
because the water was over the
tracks just before Terford Station.
Dick had just said, she remembered:
“T met Ron in town, it’s his last
leave before going overseas, so I
brought him along, too many soldiers and sailors in town for a man
to have a good time.” Then Dick
had gone upstairs, and left Ron
with Ann.

A loud commotion in the kitchen
aroused Ann from her reverie. “Oh,
there you are, Ann,” said Jean. “I
Spent last night with Amy. The
storm was terrible. I had to walk
in from the Junction. I wish we
didn’t live here—nothing ever happens in the country.” Ann smiled.
This was as good a place as any
to wait for Ron.

P. R..B:

 

 

 

 
I B,
;

 

ay with the same fair damsel.

  
   
   
 
 
   
  
   
 

     
    

aah ne column is a new edition
der’ amis,

   

to the “Gazette”. Just to save the

 

we'd like to share his opinion.

i, F that ‘Aneeta Goodman is sporting an Army ring.

We are vastly relieved to hear that John Ballem has finally made up

his mind. Happy New Year, John!

The Dalhousie Stags will lose ground dnring the next few weeks,

- since the Navy will be available during the long winter evenings devoted

a others to study for the Exams.

oh aye any time.

The boys in blue can pass with

“Platterbug” seems very insistent on “My Devotion” as heading

the Studley Hit Parade.

Could it be his theme song?

The Shirreff Hall girls can always be sure of meeting their friends

either at the Yacht Squadron or before the House Committee.

we just said. “Uumm!”

* *

Nothing,

% *

The following mournful note has come to our attention and we print

it herewith:
“Dear Dotty (our nom de guerre):

“Please help me solve the problem which, along with English II,
keeps me awake at night. My best friend is away at an out-of-town col
lege, and I am very lonesome without her.

Studley Campus a treat?

Should I give the girls at

Should I save myself for the long week-ends?

Which would be fairest to all concerned?

MAC.”

Answer: There are probably a lot of you Dalhousians in the same
difficulty, and you have our sympathy. Well, Mac, there are two courses
open to you: In the first place you would probably give Studley Campus
an even greater treat if you must sacrifice yourself for the good of others,
er you could play the field. We urgently advise you to do the former, as
there are too many fast workers in the field now.

So what???

DOTTY.

Intimate Glimpses of College Life -- No. 7

This horriffic scene is not as shocking as would appear.

 

One of

our cavemen sophomores around the campus (name on request, girls,)
is shown trying to whisper something sweet in his friend’s ear, but

unfortunately blocked her nasal passages doing it.

However, Eskimo
like, he considered it a just reward for kindnesses rendered her.

DELIRIUM

 

 

‘Dalhousie in

The News

Thanks to Prof. D. C. Harvey,

A horrible stench arises from a} we are able to print this clipping

_~¢ave no longer called “In Haec| as a voice from the dead, dead past.

Femina non Incurret’”. Within is

pane “Novascotian” of November 9,

Sieur Patten, known as “Le Gros/ 1842 has the following item about

Cheval” from the part he played in
the recent crusade to Acadia, and

with him is another knight called; Natura]
They are fumigating | College:

Horace Hall.
their cave by burning their beards.
They fan the
fiendish laughter, and cackling with
diabolical glee, they roll back the
boulder from the mouth of the cave,
and rush without. Shortly they return, and with them are Kissy
Maximus and and Phil Cram, the
twain from Shirreff Hall. The
bachelors of Dalhousie moan and
sorrowfully depart for the under_ world, for their life is at an end
on earth.

The balmy gales which blow
from OX bear all manner of treason, ill-will, and_ skullduggery.
Gough is shamed by Pottle, and re_ turns his heart to a flame of former
days. .A rumpus sounds without,

. t and Charlie Gordon appears in the

doorway. As he calls for his
breakfast, he adjusts his rumpled
dinner jacket. The sunrise glimmers over his left shoulder. A
_ sound of revelry by night; Jim Mil__ ligan dances and dances, and always
All
_ good fellows call for Robie, but

Robie does not appear.

And then, worst dream: of all,

By Murray and Mack, the silent men

t who move about in~secrecy and
_ blackest night, unseen and unheard,

sit before a desk. A light burns
: bee, bove them, and books are in their

put +t ey ¢ do not look up.
US og fa AR ‘ \ jaa, oe,
Pity nd . ha al

Pa ary

   

4
=, iD
Y H
“se

flames with their}

Rey. James MacIntosh, at that time
Professor of Mathematics and
Philosophy in Dalhousie

“New Invention — The editor of
the “Herald” mentions having seen
a new air pump, the invention of
Rev. James MacIntosh, Professor in
Dalhousie College. It has only one
cylinder and is much more simple
in construction. than the air pumps
now in use.”

On December 8th Professor MacIntosh announced a course of three
lectures on the mechanical properties of air, to be illustrated by experiment with the new and powerful
air pump constructed in the city.
The first lecture was to be delivered
on Friday evening, December 9th
in Dalhousie College.

A month after this was written,
the Professor of Latin was dismissed, and the Rev. MacIntosh took his
place, assuming this chair in addition to his other duties.

Those who are interested in the
early history of this University
should read more of this fascinating
story of its development in “An
Introduction to the History of Dalhousie University” written by Prof.
Harvey for the Centennial ceremonies in 1938.


 

| away, the two philosophers Miller

and Morse disappear within an
enormous stack of anatomy notes.

And so must we all, for that ugly
An explosion shakes them, | tim

Not far! r ui

  

of year is now upon us, when
cca is to be done.

As the fumes of milk gently
wafted away on the breeze, Major
Hokum’s infixable legions, their gory
locks tied up with white bandanas
advanced slowly over the flats.
“Here’s. where we strike it rich.
Cadet Toothpasto, detach your attachments. and dig in, yes, dig. in,
dig in, diggin” “we are”. “Here
comes that dud, McCleak”, cried no
one, and no one listened, but the air
was filled with screams, and gurgles, and ah yes—pornographicisms.

“Halt—malt, oh goody, make mine
a chocolate malted — what am I
saying ?—Who goes there?”

Advances Gorgeshumit proudly
exhibiting a fistful of teeth, one limb
under his arm, and countless accessories — after the fact. O.K.
Archie balled up the works.—O.K.,
O.K., O.K. Whoa K.

Slowly the apparition advanced—
who goes there? Men broke, the
spirit was strong, but the flesh
weak — slowly — inexorably; How
Queer scratcheshisthatch, and falls
by the wayside, followed by Chews
Bulb, who gently wafts away on the
breeze, chewing his nails vigorous
ly. Who goes there—oh Kornyking. |

All to no avail, the thing advanced still. “Be strong men,
wrong men, it ain’t alive.
like Kenloe-Howho-Bobo — goody,
loan me your bobo-bat”, cries John
quickly, yelling and screaming in
fiendish glee as he waves a pongping bat over his vanquished foe,
and the blood flew, and the hair
flowed and the bones crushed. A
great silence, and a voice cries out
—or in—which was it—who cares.

Yawn,

Rufus Rayne formerly of Rangoon, now of Timbuctoo,
Rufus, Rufi, Rufe, Rufum.
yes, meet my colleague—Ray Etwood, did it kill him? curses foiled
again”,

The cymbals crashed, the drums

rolled, lightning flashed, and a great
green mist clouded everybody and
he said,
“T have you all together, now you
are done, done, done, pun, pun, fun,

the thing appeared. “Ah”,

fun-gong”’.

el te

What horrible fate awaits Hokum and his chums, Rayne and his
chumps. Will Don Menshun ar
rive with reinforcements in time?

_ Be sure to read the next thrilling installment entitled, “The
Showdown, or Rayne Rang, but
the bells didn’t.”

your
“Ah, |

 

 

 

 

 

Just one victory after another for
the football team. The Engineers
are now champions of the interfaculty league for the first time in several years, beating the Meds. A
large crowd of enthusiastic “bridge
builders” had much to do with this

historical and great victory.
* * *

“Alki” Hall and Bill Harris seem
to be having lasting benefits from
the memorial Freshman Show. A
certain Ukranian lass made herself
known and these two, up and coming engineers, lost no time. Take
heed, though, Alki, and let her get
to class on time.

* * *

John G. “Sparky” MacLean, we
know, has a part-time job doing war
work, but, during class hours, especially in Geology I, he seems to
find some things more interesting
than Amphiboles and Quartzites.

* *

For many years, the Engineering

Society has ‘been in the habit of

It’s just | t@king an educational trip of some

nature (7?) to such places as the
aircraft plant in Amherst, the steel
works in Trenton, ete. Plant superintendents invariably went far out
of their way in order to help the
Dal boys.

This practice was highly recommended and it wag too bad that financial conditions did not allow
more variation in the amount of insight the student engineer was afforded into industry and professional engineering practice.

* % *

The war has brought to Dalhou
sie realization of the serious ma-’
terial shortages which exist in our
that

country. The engineers feel
more and more the public is becoming aware of the universities and
their part in the war program. Time

and time again, the government has
made statements mentioning short
age of engineering services.
cs % *

We
trips. However, we must have some
form of collective sharing in the
many lessons which are not obtained in the class-room. This column

'is ready to give any suggestions a
space.

What say, gang? Let’s cook
up something new and interesting,

| remembering the war and its) limi' tations.

 

WETSUIT UNA AST APA Ae

Through The

UOUSOS0 000000000 000000 ELENA RSET ASAD

Pete MacCullough is still the
Hall’s most reliable adherent. He
continues to haffle the males and
females alike
color combinations in dress.

Bobbie White seems to have lost |
which attracted the |

the adhesive
Newfoundland engineer. Maybe it
will give some of the anxious ones
a chance,

Bagnall has the undivided attention of Miss MacPherson down at
the Hall. In spite of numerous attacks by Hagen and others of the
old school, he continues to get there
first. His system seems to be involved with an elaborate pre-date
method. He gets her tied up a
week ahead and no girl likes to
promise beyond that? ?...

“Pete” Paysant, who many will
remember was the daring sweater
girl in the Freshman Show, will be
found very often in the gym-store.
Watch him and see how his face
lights up when a certain one comes
in.

The “Juke Box” in the store is
not working yet. In spite of the

with his fantastic |
| dents

 

i

severe criticism it receives when it
is, it looks ag if it must really afford enjoyment to some. Maybe it
is the fact that so many Dal stuhave such a great deal of
money which they just have to
spend ... It really is missed.

John Lauchie MacLellan still has
the campus guessing with the
strong rumor of his recent marriage. The gal friend’s father is connected with the Y.M.C.A. in Sydney.

Gordon Hennigar, the pride of
Phi Chi, was much in evidence at
the big frat formal the other night.
His condition is chronic and caused
no state of alarm or dismay. His
pal was Pee-Wee Gough, the pride
of Newfie-Med-School.

The coming Hi-Y dance, caused
its commotion on the campus Monday morning what with Hagen, etc,
etc., all looking for the same few
gals,

The keyhole on the library door
is beginning to see more and more
worried faces. Could be exams in
the near future. Could be... Until
next time, old saying has it; “A
stitch in time saves nine.”

Keyhole...

 

THE NATIONAL FISH Co.

HALIFAX. -—
 

at Dalhousie must forget our

) Fader’s Drug Stores { iBader's Dene Staves).

HALIFAX

 

 

 

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday
“HENRY ALDRICH ~ EDITOR”

“MRS WIGGS OF THE
CABBAGE PATCH” |

 

 

me CTL
qT C1

- f
<i si

 
 

Thal BEE VE

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

“Coca-Cola is the. answer to thirst
that adds refreshment. Your own

 

 

 

experience fells you just what to
ove ice-cold Coke has the hap
 

ee
Ra ee eT
a Sas
aan

py knack of making thirst a minor

  
 
 
   
    
 

matter...refreshment your foremost feeling.

’ “And your own experience will
E prove this fact: The only thing like
Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola itself.”

TRADE MARK
Delicious and

_ eS heard

See ee

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

 

 

DALHOUSIANS...
for your TOILET ARTICLES, MEDICINES
PERFUMERY, CHOCOLATES
KODAKS, CIGARS

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
LORD NELSON HOTEL

490 BARRINGTON STREET

 

~—S - —

 

CAPITOL
*

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

LIMITED
FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

NOVA SCOTIA

LUCILLE BALL

and

VICTOR MATURE

135 HOLLIS Poe
29 COBURG ROAD

Novy a Scotia a Scotia ) |

“Seven Day Leave”
*
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
Mickey
| ROONEY
Us galt

“A Yank at Eton”

 

GARRICK
*

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“TALES OF MANHATTAN”

 

 

ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
“The
Flying Tigers”
*

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“BELLS OF CAPISTRANO”
with GENE AUTREY

OXFORD |

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“PANAMA HATTIE”

CASINO
*

STARTING SATURDAY
NOVEMBER 1

 

“I Married A Witch”

VERONICA LAKE
FREDERIC MARCH
ROBERT BENCHLEY

*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“HOLIDAY INN”
with BING CROSBY

 

at fit, ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 
* 2 ee

i

 

 
   
 

 

 
  
  
   

oe Wins, and

against ATC.
Tigers main effectiveness was lost
without Ralston or Webber. Field
ing a makeshift team, they showed

little opportunity of winning, but in
the second half tore back at their
rivals and held more than their

. Own. Significant: next year, with

maturing junior men such as held
key Tiger positions this year, it
should again be a Dalhousie year.

Seoring for Navy in the first half
were Spike Larabie, with the first
field goal of the season, drop-kicked
from the Dal 30 yard line, Cole with
a try, and Roberts with another
try, neither of which were converted. Gilbride missed these, together
with several penalty kicks, and his
starry footing was absent.

Tigers Score.

Dalhousie fought back to open
and personalize the second half, and
Ian MacGregor was awarded a pen
   
   

 

All Hopes Go

ie Tigers finished thei? football season a few pointe under
syal Canadian Navy took them into

Recreation Center (alias or
loss was the collegians third, compared with two wins
a ee Behind 10-0 at the half, they
to more than hold Navy garnering three points, After the
. ee, toe faa despite the loss of a chance to tie
the league leadership, went out and played a hard,

camp 10-3, last Saturday
Wanderers

losing game

alty kick, booting it cleanly for the
Tigers lone tally. The rest of the
period was scoreless. Big factor in
Navy’s victory: the Dalhousie scrum
failed to live up to pre-game predictions. When the ball went to the
backfield, they didn’t drive ahead
fast enough for the fair gains.
However, dribbling was a Dal strong
point, and most of the Tigers’
forays into Navy territory were
made this way.

Lineups: Navy — Gilbride, Larabie, Roberts, Arnott, Cole, Robertson, Vickers, McInnis, Mombourquette, Nelepka, Graven, Scallion,
McPhee, Rutherford and Feeney.

Tigers — McLellan, Giberson,
Knickle, Rogers, Howard, Hart, Giovanetti, Currie, MacGregor, Mclvor
Hanna, Menchions, Scouler, Hunt
and Hagen.

Referee: Fletcher Smith.

Pine Hill Billies Hold First Dance;
Sophomore Capers, Others Prance

Daring the age-old superstition of phony of enthusiasm, and even a

Friday 13th, Pine Hillions (often
pronounced with an “e’”’) held their
first dance of the year on that ma
_abre date last week. 83 couples dis
regarded the unfavorable omens, eyidently trusting, with Milton, that
“Virtue may be assailed but never
hurt,” to fill the floor and cut the
earpets to the musical assaults of
Don Lowe’s swingsters,

Decorations were under the supervision of Gen’] Art Heartz, and the
“13” motif was strikingly and shudderingly emphasized amid the black
and orange adorning the walls.
Master of Ceremonies was John
“Lauchie” MacLellan, prominent
member of the Dance Committee.

Highlighting the evening was the
special 13 dance, which might have
astonished even Arthur Murray (who
evidently taught some of the participants dancing in a hurry, advt).
Further details may be obtained
from almost any of the dancers, who
are generally up and about again,
to the great relief of their many
friends.

Following refreshments, hordes of
ex-Mt. A’ers present added to the
general seriousness of the atmo
sphere with their traditional caca
few inhibited ex-Acadians raised
their apologetic tenors to laud their
Alter Mater.

Note: All dances have an aftermath which, to each one, rests solely on himself—and her! For the
way one sophomore handled the delicate (?) problems, see illustration
on page 3.—Ed.)

GOOD BAND—

Continued from page 1
support by the jive cats, and hep

chicks of Studley and Forrest, the
Dal Band can’t find any occasion to
display their musical wares. In. his
weekly (weakly) quotable quote,
Manager Hank Johnson sighed
“maybe we'll be reduced to playing
at Delta Gamma meetings!” Truly
a fate worse than debt.

SENIORS MEET—
Continued from page 1

made to check on the list. Co-eds

benefit most from the schedule,

have a chance to perm* intelligent

heads to match intelligent faces.

(* “To perm” is our reporter’s original and Time-ish idea of a verb

meaning “to get a new hair-do”—

Ed.)

 

“SURE 1M HAPPY

“Picobac

 

tastes so good—is such

 

a mild, cool, sweet smoke—it helps a

man to concentrate while he’s working

- and to relax when he’s through. Be
é happy with Picobac"’.

Picobac

GROWN IN SUNNY, SOUTHERN ONTARIO

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

"UNAS EAALLAAATA

SPORT +C)-SCOPE

by ED MORRIS =
THU ALNUNLNNULNSAULASASOULNSNOINOOLESOO ASN ASN EUOLAS ELA SOSMSOULAHNOUESNSUUGSOLATRO LAGOMORPHA

All right, go ahead and say it. You’re glad that football is
done with, chucked, washed out, through. Every day, week in
and week out, it has been the same old thing — football, football, football. Aren’t there any other things to talk about?
Can’t you open your mind and let a little fresh air in? Did you
ever hear of tennis, and ping-pong, and ground hockey, and
badminton, and basketball, and ...so on ad nauseam? Don’t
you know that football, like fish, stinks in three days?

That, my friend, is the way to talk. More spirit like that
and we’d show ’em. Go on, fire away with both barrels; you
can say what you want just as well as the next fellow. Football bores you, so why not say so?

I have no objection to make if you don’t like football and
want to say so. What I do lament is the fact that you don’t like
anything. Today it is football, tomorrow it is basketball, the
next day it is something else. You are the type whose college
spirit is twice as great as your dubious talent for fair play. And
twice nothing is still nothing.

Well, like it or not, football is a “fait accompli” so far as
1942 is concerned. But it wasn’t “aaccomplished” with outstanding achievement or creditable distinction. About the only

SU UININLNNNNUNOSNI NUTTIN
SVD ENE EAAPTAALESTS

zt

| policy.

thing over which we can wring

our collective hands and pat our

collective backs is a fine administration of justice to a certain

Wolfville establishment.

Distinguished Acadia fan register
vehement protest concerning dishonorable tone last week’s column.
Regret unnecessary allusion to eminent Axemen suggestive of overelation and considerable puffing-up
among worthy sons of village of the
Wolf. So sorry to find reference to
questionable practise of planning
mammoth dance open to Acadia
freshman only. Regard Acadia as
Valhalla and desire to make same
known to not-too-profound editor of
unworthy sports column...

Distinguished fan can go take very
big jump in very deep lake. Desire
to acquaint same with self- evident
fact long since neglected. Will also
guarantee safe passage on part of
all belligerents if dishonorable gentleman express conscious desire to
change his place of abode. Also
desire to associate myself with laudable move to give back Acadia to
Indians provided distinguished Redskin can be persuaded to accept.

 

As the winter sports season looms
up it might not be out of place to
reintroduce the topic of basketball,
which should and can be conducted
with more complete coverage this
year than ever before. With enroll
ment up and Studley registrations |

increased over last year there is
ample material at hand from which
to fashion a number of reall good
interclass and interfaculty teams.
Basketball deserves more interest on
the campus both as a pastime and
as an exercise. The average studdent loses little if anything from one
hour a week of healthful enjoyment,
and, as a matter of fact, usually
gains considerable. The same, of
course, applies to badminton or any
other indoor sport designed to supplant the outdoor sports program.

SECURITY ADDRESS

Continued from page 1

If you hear a rumor, demand to
can’t find out, tell the rumor-monger you will report him.

Track down every rumor you hear.

|Send the information you collect to

the District Intelligence Officer at
Military Headquarters on Spring

Garden Road, or to the Royal Cana- |

dian Mounted Police,

Refuse to be discouraged in this
See it through to the end of
war, even if by that time you
out of university or college and
from Halifax.

the
are
far

Nazi Bonfires?

This is no sacrifice to make. It
is your undeniable duty as citizens

of a free country. There is always |
some- |

something more to be done,
thing undone to be repaired. Privileges we cherish have their companion responsibilities which we cannot ignore, nor forget.

Your motto at Dalhousie is “Ora
et labora”. Work and pray. Let it
be—until Victory—Work, fight and
pray. Fight with your hearts and
minds, your pens and tongues. Dalhousians—fight for freedom, for
Dalhousie, in every little action of
your daily lives. Because Dalhousie
may not be here if we lose this war.
The books in Macdonald Library
may be a Nazi bonfire if we go
down to defeat.

You men of St. Mary’s and Tech,
do your part for St. Mary’s and for
Tech in the same spirit.

If you were to ask: “What can I
do to help the war effort that will

of greater help than anything

—_—_— ‘ : ~ a

| else I might do?’”—I think the ob
vious answer today is: “Stop the
circulation of rumors. Frighten the
wits out of every rumor-monger in
Halifax.”

You won’t be a “stool pigeon” or
a “squealer” in the midst of your
friends of you carry out the suggestions made tonight. If you have
an acquaintance who spreads rumors, he is no friend of yours, even
if he acts like one. He is an enemy
of Canada, an enemy of yours, even
if you grew up on the same street.

This is a dirty, rotten _war, the
most beastly yet, which in itself indicates its German origin very plainly. Even those Germans who love
decency and peace have never been
popular in their own country. We
are fighting Hitler and the mass of
Germans behind him (at least that’s
why most of us enlisted), as our
fathers fought their fathers a generation ago, and as Frenchmen,
Danes and Austrians fought their
grandfathers two generations ago.

Torpedoes, bombs, guns, propaganda, rumors—these are the weapons they used the last time. These
are the weapons they are using
again, even to greater effect.

French Did Not Realize.

With such a nation seeking to
destroy us utterly—if we must talk,
let us talk discreetly. If we must
moralize on our nation’s short com‘ings, let us do so in a way that will
not create doubt in our own hearts
of the worth of this fight for democracy and freedom. The people
of France failed to see the reality
of war, the reality of what threatened them, until it was too late.
Look at them now. Let us not forget.

Many of you doubtless have heard
a, malicious rumor now going the
rounds —that a well-known Lunenburg schooner captain—you all know
his name—has been supplying fuel
to German submarines off the coast,
and that he has been shot by the R.
C.M.P. during a chase. There is not
a particle of truth in this yarn. Yet
that little rumor is being repeated
|and believed by thousands of people

 

in this province. Because of it,
thousands no doubt distrust this
|schooner captain, a loyal British

subject. His life has probably been
|made miserable for him.

Hundreds of thousands of malicious little rumors are constantly going the rounds, some intended to
|create distrust, some intended to reflect on the efficiency of our fighting
forces, some intended to undermine
|our belief in democracy, some doubt‘ing the efficiency of our intelligence
service.
| The utter devilishness of it all is
| that so many of these rumors sound
| reasonable, so many have that fatal
grain of truth, that presumably intelligent people will swallow them
whole—hook, line and sinker—with‘out making any attempt to track
down the rumors or to verify them.

 

Quality Shoes
For Fall

 

Now is the time to Buy
Boots and Shoes for
Men and Women.

Wallace Bros.

Limited

415 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. S.

 

TIGERS LOSE FINAL TILT OF SEASON

Acadia Sings A Song OF Woe;

 

You know, and I know, that a certain ship is in port. Each of us
knows the other knows. Therefore,
we may say, why shouldn’t we talk
about that certain ship? It is very
easy, you see, to fall into this manner of thinking. Slipshod thinking,
too.

When we talk about a certain
ship, we very quickly find ourselves
talking about the men on that ship,
about the cargo she carries, about
the convoy of which she is part.

And then, of course we are all
friends. So we talk to our friends
about the ship. And before you can
say “Heil Hitler,” vital information
has been scattered to the four winds.

This habit afflicts too many of us.
The situation in this area today is
that everybody feels free to talk
about everything; therefore it is virtually impossible to pick out the
fellow who really is fishing for information, the johnny who really is
in Hitler’s pay.

If, now, we can break this habit
that has caught everybody in its
dreadful grip—if we all keep quiet
—the first man to speak out of turn
will stand out, a marked man, an
enemy of the state. And we shall
pounce upon him with glee!

The Birth of a Rumor.

Here in Halifax a rumor may be
heard on Monday. Somebody going
out on the morning train has spread
it all over Montreal by Tuesday
evening. By Wednesday it reaches
Toronto and the border cities. By
Friday that rumor is being circulated in Vancouver, perhaps so distorted that it is a new rumor, but
still that same vicious rumor which
began in Halifax a few days before.
The one rumor may have given birth
to dozens of other rumors in the
course of its travels.

Ships come into Halifax, and before they clear port their presence
has been rumored all over the continent. Troopships sail from east
coast ports, and before they can
reach the other side, the enemy
knows that those ships are so many
days out from this side, so many
days from England.

All humanity is in one boat. The
German, the Jap, the Italian are
rocking the boat. We have not time
to debate their reasons. We know
only too well that they want to spill
the rest of us into the ocean, and
they will run any risks to do it.

We must stop them. We must
tie them down so that they will not
break loose again. For we cannot
lose this struggle. Men are bleeding and dying tonight in Africa,
Russia and the Solomons in order
that we may continue to lead a
pleasant life, in order that we can
go safely home tonight to sleep in
our own comfortable beds. Men are
bleeding and dying tonight so that
we can continue to breathe good,
clean, free air, without a Hitler in
sight. Men are bleeding and dying
tonight so that we can open our
mouths without being afraid of saying the wrong thing.

Let us deserve these men who
fight for us. Let us deserve the
victory we are all working for. Let
us deserve the priceless heritage our
forefathers struggled to create and
to pass on to us. Let us, pray God,
win the war and the peace, and let
us win with our heads held high,
conscious that we did our duty as
free men, conscious that we labored
to carry a light through the darkness of these troubled days.

 

November 20, 1942

Naugler’s
Orchestra

0

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032

 
 

ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Y.M.C. A. Building - B-1530
381 Baarrington Street
31 Spring Garden Road — B-6440/

We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

"Need Life Insurance —

WHO - ME?”

The younger you are when you
take out your first life insurance
policy, the lower your premium
will be.

So, you should start thinking
about your life insurance whea you
get your first salary cheque.

Will you need insurance? Yes—
unless you intend to live like a
hermit without human contacts and
responsibilities. One day you may
have a home of your own to keep,
a family to provide for. One day
you may need security for a business loan; and, some distant day,
you will certainly need money for
your own retirement.

There are Mutual Life policies
that can do all these things. When
the time comes for you to buy life
insurance, see a Mutual Life representative. He will help you to plan
the right kind and amouat of
insurance protection to suit your
special needs.

DO NOT OVERLOOK YOUR OBLIGATION
TO PURCHASE VICTORY BONDS AND
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES

THE

  
   

MUTUAL LIFE

ESTABLISHED 1369
“Owned by the Policyholders”

 

     

Covered with
Neilson’s smooth
French-style Chocolate

’
Ut

 

 

   
   
 

  

7

 
