 

 

FOUNDED 1869

 

 

VOL. LV.

HALIFAX, N. S., APRIL 4, 1923.

 

 

The Dalhousie Gazette

Founded 1869
Issued Weekly One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - + «+ «= = J, GORDON FOGO

BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
129 Spring Garden Road

All omerteeas and advertising accounts payable to the Business Manager.

Se

EDITORIAL

 

Emerging victorious from two intercollegiate debating contests in as
many weeks, the university teams have
brought honor to their alma mater and
have added in no small degree to her
prestige. Debating has not received the
whole- earted support of the students
this term, few have actually participat
ed, and the attendance at Sodales has:

_ been small compared with what such a
valuable branch of college activities
should receive. But , despite these
tent handicaps, two winning teams
ve been produced; this feat should
serve as a stireing for the future and
be significant of the large and enthusiastic Sodales. Society of 1923-24.

The difficulties met by the @ in thet
and members of major athletics in their
respective seasons are receiving considerable attention at this time. It is
admitted on all sides that. e sports Tis

 
 
 
 
  

 

ae ty owen $5 6
TE ME iia ls ‘in vogue in
“wi yt

= "| ’ .
' Fs re mittee <i (tees

ar ¥
a rh ‘Blah
ea naa a

: is 8 fades 4
A

college. Their opponents do likewise
with the result that each college would
have a home debate on the same subject, while their respective teams would
argue both sides of the question, those
at home, the affirmative, abroad, the
negative, or vice versa.

 

The most unpopular man in the university today is he who pleasantly remarks—‘‘ Well, if you had studied regularly during the whole term, you would
not have te work so hard now.’’ At
any rate, everybody appears to be
working hard.

 

Dalhousie was exceedingly fortunate in securing the eminent Sir Michael
Sadler to address the students during
his visit to Halifax. Needless to say,
those who were fortunate enough to attend the lecture were amply repaid.
Too seldom do we have the opportunity
of hearing men of Sir Michael’s character and learning,

Won Intercollegiate Debate

Messrs. L. W. Fraser( leader), Sil Gilchrist
and Don. Meinnes, the university debating team,
were successful in defeating Acadia in the intercollegiate contest which took place at Wolfville on Tuesday, March 20th. A detailed report of the debate will be published later.

‘ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Misses Elsie Phillips, Evelyn Crowa ag a fame, Stewart, Myrtle et

y Meeker, Nora
Hon. A. K.

 

  
  
 
  

bored
Maskinnon,

ie

eT - dawara ©

abon
1)
- Tm Pa - i
a ; 2 PY a a
ay | ,
* a
“ o ie ao i
i ry , r : a
7 i " 4 ok ee 4 A

  

shies a
modern

 

No, 12

Sir Michael Sadler

Once again Dalhousie weleomed the
opportunity of hearing an eminent English educationist. At noon on Thursday, the 29th, Sir Michael Sadler, K. ©.
S. L, C. B., LL.D., addressed a large
gathering of students at the Gym.

 

Sir Michael, who is vice-chancellor of —

the University of Leeds, one of the newer
English universities, is commencing a
lecture tour of Canada and the United
States. He is the second of an educational mission to this country, a mission
which the Canadian universities have
been instrumental in bringing from England. Sir Michael is to be followed at an
interval by Sir Robert Baden-Powell,
the founder of the Boy Scout movement.
Sir Michael’s schedule called for only
one address in Halifax, so that Dalhousie
was being granted a special privilege.
The speaker was introduced by Presi
dent Mackenzie, who extended the wel-, —
come of the college to the English visitor, ©”

Sir Michael spoke shortly on the “Intellectual Influence of Smaller States on
Larger States’’.
of Switzerland, a small republic nestled

between France and Germany. Here

was the case of a small state contributing such men as Rousseau and Pestalozai to the world of education.
Scotland, ‘‘a yeast and ferment to
England’’, had given the mother country an educational stimulus, which the
publie tendency of the day was directly
opposed to, Sir Walter Scott and Adam

Smith were great factors in bringing”

about this stimulus.

He then brought the Maritime Provae
ect on «il

the rest of Canada and the United rr ae

inces into his analogy. Here
small pun had had a marked

   

he showed. that

In conclusion he

smaller state must keep in touch with the
of scholarship of
, but the net The a a
e a ‘4
state ete develop its own ine —
and the chief ae Ri:

thought and standards

the greater communi
lee Macles choad Se opt distinet,
smaller

  

this end was the
dameresaatis 1

He took the example

 

 

   
  
  
  
   
  
    

   
     
 
 
       
  
  

  
  

ie
4 Ti
ical

   

ey

 
 
  
 

 

—_ = = =e . —— : —_ —— Pew Ee hy ET Ore. Se wh Tes VOT ws PEL i ree ee og = J F Sea at Twy wr The Pa pal PG er" To Owe Larnt NAIA arr eg rT ae ws DT oy 2 Se SF Ril akt e Se Le mT . Ta 54 — — may Ne e? s “ze Te EP, ; Dn OE eT ae a oa, ae aos TT Sree X oe 5 rv) eile bd ee ae; Coney. AS MAN : peal phy (sy a a Wi ey Aes a: ta 1 hie SAD : ? . "* 7 “a
i ; r ‘ ach. ae - : Tan ; 4 2 3 wi tl) eae eet Rs ee a a7 ey J4 ‘, ytd war ey y 2 oh Chine _ : ; 5 .
’ . ° y% 7 t. tt i iy . ’ . ae “?. wae my : } . ‘ at ;
e . : * ‘7 , t ; Hw re : ara . : ¥ mh ; % J ak
’ A 4 . : 7 . ’ 7 4 J
‘4 : ; ‘ : > s é
‘ . ul % : d i i2¢ ’ - i
’ . it : . ’ * ’ a
, i ’ ‘ r : "3 a
; ’ ° =
eneeeteemmiepientmmaniiie —_—— - ae ee eee arene nee ene emcee eee ements gnomes eee glean ces teeetnrcadieneeeemeeatneaeeeetpenpeneanetnoeanpnanaetonemeneeeeeenrantteenneneetaeramentamnenemameememmmamaesoeedmeanaaatempeneaeeeeeeanamaeaamantnnaye-anapemtasnandieaseenapeeasetamsaantaedeasanaihemmanamammaammeseenenes -_-—— _ ———— —« ———————EE

TO 4 SMOKE END: ©

 

(B.A. Crichlow).

_«‘A}} is fair in love and war’’. For °}

  
 

  
     
    

YOUR DRUGGISTS
MACLEOD & BALCOM

LIMITED

To a Smoky End

(Continued from page 2).
the sleeves—all over it. Hurry up! got

have been’ unearthed from their’ hiding
places and confiscated; many tears have
ben shed and reproaches showered, but
Lionel the short-tempered, the irritable,

1. A humorist has recently observed that if we ourselves are set in our

ful os i ways it is “‘firmness’’, but if th
Henry Morenci and Lionel King both _ five months he kept himself eye mn SOUTH END PHARMACY but seven minutes to do it in”? is still va Seay chimney she never F ae i He sired lhe it tne OFNee
worshipped the same divinity in the per- . the alert for an opportunity to recove Morris Street. Unquestioningly Timmins obeyed the expected him to be. 9 When the Other Fellow takes

gon of Mabel Berridge: In form, faee

and fortune both were presentable young

his lost ground and eventually win the
girl on whom he had set his heart.

       
   
     

WEST END PHARMACY

Spring Garden Road.

man who always signed his pay cheques.
When the curious process was com
A Learned Discussion

time to do things, he is ‘‘dead slow’’,

men. The ardent and romantic Morenci At last it evn a prepared to NORTH END PHARMACY pleted, the coat was conveyed back to the ron we do the same we are ‘‘delibertly shot ahead of his rival by execute his master stroke. , | _ . Young Street, dressing room and replaced on its peg. The February number of the Cana- 9° When the Other Fellow treats
cotanaaling and dedicating an ode to the a Wee 7 © the Sil . te — LORNE PHARMACY The convivial evening came to an dian Bar Review contains a very inter- people very well, he is ‘‘toadying”.
> beauty of Miss Berridge’s eyes. King autumm Social 0 Ta me tauleie’ Hid Agricola Street. | end, Guests were already departing, esting article, by Vincent C. MacDon- When we do the same it is ‘tact”’.
, had not a poetical soul, but after two Arts, Medicine, Law, A 2 le OXFORD PHARMACY - and Miss Berridge. was ready to be tak- ald LL.B., lecturer in Agency at the Law 4. When the Other Fellow says
nights of mental labor, to even things up Sport were ably represen ” , Quinpool Road. en home. Morenci threw the last half School, dealing wtih the duties of occu
 

a bit, he succeeded in producing a son
ranks of the city’s elite, and on the arms

 
    

“Five Places of Safety”

       
           
   

 

 

  

 

     
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
    
   
    
     
 
  
 
  
 
  

  
    
 
  

      
    
  
  

      
  

 

 

  
  
 
 
  
 

   
  
   
   
 
 
 

     
      
 
 

   
 

dozen spoons to the patient Crawford,

piers of land who bring things of a dan
what he thinks he is ‘‘spiteful’’. When ~~

    
 
  
     
    

‘nc hung many fair ; : : de i- we do it, we are ‘‘framk,”’
net on ‘‘The shell-like ears’’ of the peer- of their varions swains, nats ANY darted upstairs, slipped into his coat gerous nature on their property, In his 5. When the Other Fellow spends vi
~ less Mabel. When Morenci learnt of his combinations of beauty and brain. and was down again. Apologising for discussion of the law bearing on the 4 Jot he is a ‘‘spendthrift’’. When we |
-__ yival’s latest achievement, he repaired Henry Morenci, the respected ie dull his long absence, he made his fiancee all subject, Mr. MacDonald gives a concise qo jt, we are “generous”. |
~~ im haste to his library. Once again he tary and treasurer, resplendent in f | comfortable for the homeward drive and but systematic review of the decisions, 6 When the Other Fellow dislikes 9 &
> invoked his muse, and in a long lyric, evening dress, had already piloted wn y bk d ti on conducted her to the waiting car. An both English and Canadian, since the 4 pergon he is ‘‘prejudiced’’, When we ;
Ni proved to his satisfaction that, in Mabel, fair Mabel through three we , our ucatl order to the chauffeur, and. they were leading case of Rylands vs. Fletcher. dislike a person, we are ‘‘judges of |
Xi the hitherto lost charms of Venus, Juno, waltzes and a two-step. _Isionel 4 ‘bat is not complete if confined to The law as laid down in that case has) jwman nature’”. »
and Cleopatra were restored to the vice-president of the club, dance ; Ar printed books and lectures. fe The distance was covered in a few always been a source of considerable. When the Other Fellow gives way to — bP
world: and with view to approaching *a seldom, giving most of his time to di- Visiting the interesting and minutes. And now he stood in the par- difficulty for the student, on account of ill temper he is “ugly”. When we fly
long-delayed climax, the last few lines recting the service of underlings. ad popular eect in every city lour preparing to take a tender leave of the arbitrary nature of the rule and its. jnto a rage, it is ‘‘nerves’’. Af
‘ informed the adored one that, for him The last item on the programme 7 helps a e. But even as he gathered her equally illogical exceptions. After V.J.F.
she was ‘The centre-point of God’s fair been. rendered, and the guests of bl . into his arms and made ‘to repose the: struggling, with the gengral doctrine of pees
Creation.” Alas ! for the further efforts evemiug were gathered round the ta * We. tater Alt nds ‘elaide ‘tases penelat fair head jon his manly breast, there negligence, he is unable to comprehend pee
of the dauntless King; a sonnet to her in the big hall partaking of a final roun ce‘ teneeicibiin tis Walaa Velen eame a terrible change, breath-shorten- why the. eourts shoyld have imposed an
ruby lips and an ode to her eyebrows, of refreshment before the function ing and heart-numbing to the astounded absolute liability on the person who
the results of four nights brain-aching a“ - ee a a TH E—— ere _— et , ¥ brings a dangerous thing ot hia land, | ‘
1.4 influence of Lhis was we . _ She tore herself away from his en- and then a series of exceptions grad- ns
heer oelgeniet eh ahh had waited, and like a good general he | New Green Lantern ¢ircling arms, and repulsed him violent- ed that liability down so that'‘in the end YOUR ul
| Previous to Henri’s last production, Degan operations without loss of time. a! ly. With blazing eyes she faced him, it practically amounts to mete liability | 4
the fate of both young men hung in the He entered the hall with a hasty __ and like a torrent’ the words—angry, for negligence. The usual result is that. | POCK] Ty a
'  alance, for until then, Mabel had not and glanced hurriedly around, —Catch- stinging and contemptuous flowed from the rule and its exceptions are got up by: Be.
reached the deciding point. But— ing sight of Morenci, he signalled him her lips. — rote, without any attempt being made to | | a
‘‘Qentre-point. of God’s fair Creation”, from across the aos sy —— THE—— .. Cie | “*¥es!’’ she cried, towards the end understand them, or else the student in | i Ss Nal ie
it breathed of the high, the soulful, the POF goodness’ sake, Henri, ‘de YOUNG MAN’S STORE of a string of withering sentences, ‘*You despair gives up the unequal struggle. 8 a Di |
i romantic enduring—and all that, and it cried anxiously wheen they were outs! ‘4 : vo | have deceived me, but it will never hap- In ‘such circumstances he .is indeed many disadvant.
| worked like'a charm on the innocent sonl ‘‘get out of your coat and lend Crawfor | | n again for this is the end. You have grateful for any Ariadne’s clue to lead, | ree
aa f the beautiful Mabel. She was tonch- a hand to, collect and pack away the sil- | 7 : | en your promise and I can no longer him through what would otherwise be a, “} er
ee (e ; H rdians smiled, ver. It’s late, and there’s still much to rust you. I could never be happy with formless maze of single instances. a, yg Naseer
m. e@, She smiled, Her guardians oa’. be done.” f AeA ey os be ieee. Bautaws j i I Money carried in it
and Henri Morenci earned the inestim- Pe Gone. Bats end Cide te the Ole you, therefore we must part. wi The ere ar Review is a new jf me
i oe privilege of paying six motiths of “But— arg + \ Cait ‘and daebelt ous Glock _ a.sob she turned away and fled upstairs periodical, brought out at the beginning | is easy to spend on
formal court before the wedding day. * ‘No buts, old man, Can't entrust | before purchasing. : 0 Her Soom, | be as of aes year Sine, seplncing the several trifles or may be
u One thing Mabel could never endure {0 the hired men, and the caretaker’s Rs | 48 | by the unexpected turh ‘of -law magazines formerly published in

 
  
 
  
  

7! -,
ae «i
ei ‘

A

Ne iit
refi pile 4

   

 

   

on any consideration, and that was
‘bacco smoke; pipe, cigar and lyr

‘

she detested with equal strength.

hands are full just now. Ribas nos gh
ten minutes. Must be done before we
leave, you know.”

  
 
  

i

    
     
    
     
    

 

: o .
| | W | ; P, , |
f ’
‘ ° + ots =
i [ A is . iA
‘. 4 ' a)
; , x ' o 5
*

    

  

   
   
     
 
     

ed of his senses. Slowly his scattered

, F me
* : ) RAD
; °
Ai | , 1if
7 7 f rf a *
. a
: i i . i ip mn a
: ‘>
: O Ve
‘ ; j cs}
oy 4 Fat
7 } i 7 1"
. >. FF ‘ \ i tae 4
’ "4
. :
f ’ Ls ‘

‘é one bereav
 

returned and his hands wandered

  

 

Canada. It is the usual habit of editors
in bringing out a new magazine to try
and start with a swing. It is therefore.

lost or stolen.
Weekly deposits in

 
  

   
  

   

   

   
  
    
     
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
    
   

    
 
 

    

 
 
     

 

 

 
  

     

   
  
  
  
   

 
   
  
 
 
 

      

     
    
  

    
  

    

 
   
     
   
 

; me . ‘now that the power to lay down the law Realizing that ' there wove be “just ees HALIFAX, N. 8, ae eebly over his coat front. ‘He sniffed, ‘more or less of a compliment to Dal- our Savings Bank
a cay a ers to a ce f i extent, sure and time e ugh 1 Y up th h eh ee re PL aad pnp ong lh eal Lives aes 2 oq b 2c and. sr LIT eC again, and at last housie that in each | of their first two, Ww i 1] accumulate
Be steers was the promise she exacted from silver and put it away before the hour © eT Tray on aT stakable odour became Pam numbers they have’ included ‘an article’ | 2M
> the enchanted Henri to renounce smok- _ eee ee home, Morenci nae die i a ais e. To Mabel he mu Ae by a Dalhousie professor. A. G. M., rapidly,
ing forever. In obedience to her man- © else Ne dressing x room took off Hi. | a all aden Pane aha |
ar ~ da Seah packages of Ol Chum and hoe eat es down sage of weer a Small or large ac Milbanks and two cherished pipes were 218 C08) Git’ ee knives and forks. ff race inet natn fk cn, t |
D. committed to the waters of the Arm in soon buey counting, Knives and Sons. - LIMITED ————— J aeaT ie ye apt.
esence a fon co vie i Bae) a | a

  

   
 
  

~ her presence. Thus it came about that 1 Cee ee tad
eS ea . | ; : ~ f ea . i mh ’ et
Henri left the mundane level of tobacco a job t

je 1M te. Cm. ee na aay oe ae “

; 4
¢ 4
et
ee ras
a J.
i s A 1 ‘
7 q f
a Le ;

  

fe Yin nd Se
eT i, Pe
eee

   

   
   

  

  
   
 

      

nlas 7 re oe, wpe ee ~~ an EMT Meets BEE Cee
ClLOaK-TOOT When WS 8 ff a eT gre eS Cae
he a Me Ceuabaatan- MEAG Ore ant Nt aN Sets oR
‘an ~

‘ :
4 * J .
r A” ab : - Las a Cee er ae SO
tad | & sd ee Ra - & : - — ——— —
=; i 4 *? i f., ort 5 7 i Vania a = Peer ae = a 7) wa "
¥ ‘i | ele F wate J ; o Ra | i" | eS ed c y =
nl ; lela , P) a be ’ 7 : A i ‘J - 7 he Le vs FI eS, Ph i. fa
S os a 8, b lon , i Hi , ;
ae) eles a ee ff or swan Fo =
5 » P 5 ech aT re / :

 

\ i A
; :. Bae
.
, ' Oa
= ae
' 7 . ;
‘ es.
‘ ‘ » :
‘ : r * 4 7 1 rh 1 x
* J ?
: ty
‘ L ¥
; ' @ 7.6 5 : a a r
‘ " a f
¢ r _ . yr ry - 5
: : rhe ‘
. 4 : : iv }
1 , ite
. a 4 ‘ - J lk
WF : ‘
'
, ey

  
 
   

  
 
  

 
 

 
   
  

z . =e = ae eos ae 7 a . 4 —— ae ey 5 A 7
= 7 * 3 ws fae / =a. fe es a ae Mee a)? . = 7 ey {
: . 4 7 | 3 } : 4 ey 7 —) i * WS ry 4 "/ i? yr . +? it >. 7 A a t .
" = a va ® a i = s : ce ae ed a l a he YZ = i ; ads bs ¥ ; WS 4 i : i Fs A > .
] ; : ‘ } ; ! a : 5 ae aes etn Pe ey. oon ; 4 - / ; — — — a i Pid ; i i : 4 , / A ;
is ws i ‘¥ oa “> wae a ae ‘ - er - . . ey ; . Satay: Vee . ss. ee OO! * . ° ei. rs ota ie a 1 - os oe es 1 * - i” t a = r (2 ced . 7,’ ;
: Js eh “a ‘ ls 3 : a r f Mes — ie \ s’ : if ' v 4 go te it | :
" : a i , : a, + : . — 2 ; ie sare a be és y 3 e* iar \ aaa / 7 F F . 5 > : a : ty ; ao 7s to a ; ' 4 wh.) 4 bin - 4
M 6 VOTING OM Witrr i / ih Bie : anh, ioe . Mh, J 4 Es oN ry ai at ae Ouyweck 9.0
a a | = . a Ui ik ‘ 7 o Fa 3 J » iat Bi = J , cs : { 1s ‘ 2
ee ene he ae ae ST eat ae "i . | | el a ll OU UC An anmatimoad maka aolammn nromiges FF s«rrerremw «na frre. ma est
iv I 1% oon Vis + P, AN i 4 : ji | ia :
: bal | oe eS . a . a a y | JRING, i 4, ial
a - ¢ 3 a fi = he " we Ed i a 4 » ar d a Le
4” i ; E : y :
“s ‘ ie
P P

‘ f ra 4 Oe |
wise wwe: -_ wi tae Cas
a etme os cee kL ea

f ra in —— ee Li
‘- = iY ‘hy
aie a 2 a iy
Fe sd

     

_ 7 8 .
Let yi aliens r
yj “oa! “9 S » Oa a ae
ulin PC eed leg ha) > ct Na a
Salt: ih antigth cMpy tol a a
ao, +34 aS (‘s bls “5 tee os ee ae
4 ee oe 7. Bor 1 / se =
a Ph * 7 wey =) ties Pe PS i Mas
B. al ‘as

4
if
fad f
¢ ‘ aA: ine Ay
? ? = se
on
t

Tony

a
‘" Ei
ba

os 4 -~ & P*
7 a ae el
eT se TT CD ae ey TOL OT SET CPR an gee ee BR er, Se
VA 7 k =", K , : .c.'€ 7 7s ’ : \ . aT er hens ant
y. dds . hy i,

ee ieee

ee

PINE HILL FOLLIES Il

| It is not very probable that anyone missed the
| Pine Hill evening at Glee Club, It was advertised
as “the show of the year,” and consequently 4
packed house greeted the performers,

' The program was started promptly, always a
good feature, and though there were ten numbers,
and the changes were many, there was little delay
between the acts,

The first number was a chorus, “The Boys of Old
Pine Hill,” and was a new idea, Grouped across
- the stage were “tableaux vivants” depicting the
‘| \ different faculties; Theology, Medicine, Law, Den-*  tistry, Engineering, and Arts and Science. Each
Hi group sang a verse of the song, and all joined in the
nh) chorus. This number took very well with the auAga Harry Langwith and his chorus presenved 4
Ht fetching dance—Harry was in his usual good trim
oe and lightly clad in organdie, His chorus consisted
(hy of a bevy of beauty.
* The pyramids were aplendid, Everyone was
very enthusiastic, but many a breath was held un"ti, Alan Hill had descended. from the ceiling to
earth again. And in the same way, the tumbling
appealed to the audience,

Mr. Robert Scott sang a solo, accompanied by
the chorus of ladies and gentlemen.
Then, too, were the kilties in a rollicking Sootch
is Reel. The accompanist with his violin and the
a dancers, stepping it, were very fair,
te The versatility of Ralph Dalgleish is amazing,
i With Howard Hamilton and chorus he gave a song
i about the “First, Last and Best Love.” Ralph
suits the “Beauteous Maid” role beyond words, and
his monologue “Shnrr up,” made a great hit. Even
though he stated “A ;good man nowadays is +ard
to find,” in truth we think that Dalhousie has
~ found one in Ralph. :
\) ~—s Phe aeroplane chorus by Wickwire and Hamib
ai ton and Britton was bright and well done,
hare, Evreyone liked the quartette, and applauded
 wntil an encore was in order.
Phe whole only took about an hour, and though
there was a pause, we are told, when Harry lost his
a. hair, no one noticed it.
>= ‘Tt was a jolly good show, and one of which Glee

© Gud may well be proud. ACK EMMA.

ae
Ainge

 

  

   

7) ares 4

“@y bays ,

‘wpe \
dye " ye

DENTAL OFFICERS ELECTED.

_... The Dental Society met on Saturday,
| March 17th, at noon. The finances we

a

 

   
   
 

  
   

_ gone into with considerable interest an
, we nts made for the disposition

Oa
4
—
+ a
te we f
os)
ih

ij 1 ae Ms
t }

  
  

were elected for next year: —

 
 
   

f the matter, The following officers

Dalhousie.Acadia Day

The Dalhousie-Acadia party was one
promoted by some of the boys in co-operation with the two Dalhousie girls’
teams, debating and basket-ball, in honor
of the visiting Acadia co-eds, Under
the successful management of ‘‘ Admiral
Bill”? Jones and Miss Eva Mader, the
party was a huge success.

The first event on the program was
the matinee at the Majestic Theatre.

The play was thoroughly enjoyed by
everyone and the intermission filled with
Dalhousie and Acadia yells, just to remind the house that both colleges were
represented there in unity and full of
‘Snep’’.

After the matinee the party went to

 

“Lava,” wrote the Freshman,

  

it 7 Se “a. Cf
ne AR i. =P
rf ‘ | =. oe
; } awe ea "Rel a pes
/ i . not) {Pony ie Sane 1 eg)
: f ; ‘ rea te aa F* oan oa
: “
¥ 7 a4 i lad : .
* ’ " ¢ & K 7 : 7
; ] ee

ee a tn coe cael Aiea teeth eee eet

De

the Green Lantern, where the hour from
5 to 6 was enjoyed by all in the popular

college pastime, Dinner was served at.

6 o’clock, After dinner the genial] host
called upon Miss Linton, leader of the
Dalhousie girls’ debating team, and Miss
Bowlby, leader of the Acadia team, for
speeches, which were gracefully given by
these two ladies, Two toasts were also
proposed, one to the visitors, the Acadia
co-eds, and the other, participated in by
both sides, to the good will which exists
between the two colleges. Three hearty
cheers were then given for the host and
hostess, Bill Jones and Miss Mader.
Both responded in humorous fashion.

After singing Auld Lang Syne the party.

dispersed to the railway station.
‘6 A?’

 

 

 

“is what you use to shave with”

ND perhaps the Freshman was not so far
wrong at that. He may have.been thinking of lather that rolled down his cheeks,

dried on his face, and erupted his feelings in the

process,

Today, there is something better—Williams’

differs from any shaving k

you ever used,

For Williams’ Shaving Cream contains a certain
ingredient that is distinctly beneficial to the skin.
And Williams’ is easier to :

shave with. It softens Me Pr, Noticetne ‘oe

  
   
 

Pr

 

    
    

~.

 

— _ es a artesian ee ee Oe

SUNSET

The sun'is slowly sinking in the west,
The golden tint of sunset fills the sky,
A little bird flies quickly to its nest

While chirping his last sleepy lullaby,

How peaceful is the end of.each new day

Compared to death of mortals here
below,

Who think we have important parts to
play

And weep ‘afresh at every little woe.

If only we could be as one bright beam,
In that great sunset easing all our pain,
How satisfactory our life would see
And we would know we have not live

in vain.
B. G. Lynon.

Med. ’24 Entertainment

On a Saturday evening recently Geoffrey Shaffner was host at a ‘‘stag party”’
for 4th year Medicine. ‘‘ Jeff’’, who was
president of the class in its freshman
year, maintained his reputation by
carrying out his duties in a most praiseworthy manner. The 24 class enjoyed
themselves to the full and are not backward in voicing their appreciation.

There was music dear to the hearts
of the ex-troops. Many of the boys indulged in cards. Charlie Popplestone
covered himself with glory by winning
at bridge. Lincoln Zinck made a great
contribution with his high powered smile
and Wilfrid Poirier with his marvellous
jokes, while “Dinty’’ Moore distinguished himself by emerging victor from the
great silent conflict. The full particulars of Doug. Reid’s depredations are
not available for the press.

- Reluctantly the party broke up at
the hour that such parties should and
with all navigating lights going the different craft steered for their home ports.

 

 

   
   

   

a
‘ee
rd i

 

IS ee d mist dee
| AY NR Oh a

a i i “ms 1d,

ae ek Sas Mary Wiest

-_ F , ha J ; i y .
M 4 ey ah & ~ O.e 7 ae ba), Ser a rx i
st ee : yy 4 eer a heey caf as i . fi H ss
| + ‘ i | | th *
: z Ps 4 - oe

 

 
 
  
  

Tutankamen’s Harem

The final meeting of the Delta
Gamma Society for the year 1922-23
was held in St, Andrew’s Hall on Saturday evening, March 24th. The most
interesting item on the program was the
annual criticism of the departing Seniors by the Juniors. There was also a
short play, of Egyptian origin, which
depicted the excavation of the tomb of
the present Seniors a half a century
from now. It proved an enjoyable form
of amusement.

The officers elected for next year
are :—President, Misg Rose Leslie; VicePresident, Miss Amy MacKean; Seoretary-Treasurer, Miss Harriett Hlliott.

 

LAB. LOVE.

I love thee, sweetheart, and thou lovest
me.
Our mutual flame, is like the affinity

That doth exist between two simple
bodies.

I am potassium to thine oxygen.

"Tis little that the holy marriage vow

Shall shortly make us one—that unity

Is after all but metaphysical,

O would that I, my sweetheart, were an
acid—

A loving acid; thou an alkali

Endowed with human senge, that brot
together

We both must coalesce into one salt,

One homogeneous crystal,

Could’st thou Potassa be, I Aqua
Fortis, |

Our happy union should that compound

form
Nitrate of potash, otherwise salpetre.

—4Q,”

GIFT SUGGESTIONS

A comprehensive

e work.

=. : “i v «=  * . fay ? .
il

assortmen
ee en reasonable in prices, are to be found in Birks
an |

We make School and Class Pins, submitting sketches on
hear an estimate of cost before proceeding with

A Copy of the Birks Year Book will be mailed on request.

ARTS ’25 ANNUAL

The Sophomores elected’ the following officers to control their affairs during the coming year:

President—M. W. Armstrong.
Vice-President—Miss K. A. Covert.
Secretary—Miss Ruth Fulton.
Treasurer—A, Hill.

Social Committee— OC. H. W. Sedgewick, A. B. Russell, W. C. Chipman,
W. S. L. Gates, Misses Isabelle G.
Crawford, Harriett EK. Elliott, Julia
Douglas.

Athletic Committee—J. Howe, G. C.
Wilson, R. M. Piercey and G. B.
Irwin.

In addition to the above, EH. A. Mowat was nominated for secretary of the
Arts and Science Society and Miss
Frances MacLellan as one of the executive of that body.

FRASER HEADS COUNCIL

L. W. Fraser, ‘Law '25, was unanimously
chosen as president of the Students’ Council at
the first meeting of the newly-elected body held
on Wednesday evening last. The other officers
elected were Miss Harriett Elliott, vice-president,
and W. C. Chipman, secretary-treasurer. The
members of the executive committee are Messrs.
J, G, Fogo, P. Young and A. Sutherland, while
the finance committee is composed of Messrs. J.
W. Davis, W. Jones and D. Campbell.

Debating Committee Met

Mr. M. C. MacDonald represented Dathousie
at the first meeting of the Legislative Com
mittee of the Maritime Intercollegiate Debating ’

League since 1916, which took place at Truro on
March 20th. The primary object of the meeting
was to draw up the series of debates for the
fifth round,

 
   
  
 
  
 
    
   

t of attractive Gifts, rare in

5

é ae s
a - , de 4
et oe =
ee aS » 5 ey

   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
      
    
  
   
 
    
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
      
    
   

A li Sa 2

  

   
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
     
      
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
    
  
  
   

aes
« |

th : f ¥: Ne ray Ha Sasetleio eee oe

THE. DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE

J

 

 

Verdict For Plaintiff

The Supreme Mock Court of Dalhousie, with Mr. Justice Read on the
bench, has been the scene of a number
of wordy battles during the past week.
Not the least important of these was the
case of Roe MacKenna vs. the Dalhousie
Gazette, an action for libel which arose
out of a political letter written by one
‘«X-ray’’ prior to the Mock Parliament
elections and published in: this journal.
The learned judge and jury were confronted in this case with a vast amount
of contradictory evidence, adduced by
many witnesses. Arguments both loud
and long were made by the learned counsel representing the parties, and when
the weary jury retired they were not in
that frame of mind which is conducive
to a lengthy deliberation on any matter.
The verdict, returned after five minutes
interval, was against The Gazette and
the damages granted were $3,000.

Messrs. Beazley, Lougheed and Ferguson appeared for the plaintiff, while
Messrs. Flavin, Fulton and Harrison
represented the defendants.

(Norr—The damages, we are informed, are to be paid in Russian rubles
at an early date—Ed.)

That Sumner Trophy Tangle
Mt, A. Denies Protesting Award.

Sackville, N. B., March 27.—The Athletic Association of Mount Allison University has authorized a statement relative to a Canadian Press despatch which
appeared a short time ago from Frederiction and which was to the effect that
Mt. Allison had protested the awarding
of the Sumner Trophy to U. N. B. for
this season.

The Mt. A.A.A.A. has issued a
strenuous denial of having protested the
award. The Sumner Trophy is now in
the hands of the trustees. nending statements which they have asked‘for from
the four colleges concerned, namely, Mt.
Allison, Acadia, King’s and U.N.B.

_ Tn response to the trustees’ request, the

on Amateur Athletic Associa
fon has forwarded to them its attitude
ie?

matter embodied in a resolution

   

ion was, in effect, that since Mt.
and Acadia were prevented by
heir respe s from playing

ff the three-sornered tie @ g in the
‘weste ee _ ince . had

   
 

was unanimously passed, The

river 4 Wes
— . a r : om \
. i toy te By, Me ( “Ye a —_
iL i , ‘ /
ae Te i hes 14, ties of eA eats cd re . an i
a

in St. John last spring for no play-off
in the event of a tie, an agreement should
have been entered into between the faculties of the three colleges whereby they
would all either declare the St. John
conference to be ultra vires or would
all adhere to it, for representatives of
the faculties and students of the three
colleges were all parties to the St. John
agreement,

The trustees of the trophy are
awaiting statements from all the colleges
concerned before giving their decision in
the matter.

Basketball

Passing is another important factor
and there are several methods of passing the ball; The Shove Pass, in which
the ball is pushed from the waist by the
use of the forearm and wrist, is the best
method for the short passing game.
This pass should travel parallel with
the floor about waist high and in front
of the man receiving it. The man receiving it should keep his eye on
the ball until he has caught it, to eliminate fumbling. Experience will soon develop the eye as to distance and lead
to passing and sure catching.

Overhead Hook Pass, in which the
passer takes a step sideward, holding
the ball in the right or left hand, extending his free arm and releasing the
ball over his head, is a very hard pass
to guard and can be used on both the
long and short passing game, the longer
the pass the greater the speed, as a long
pass is easy to intercept.

Back Hook Pass, is similar to the
overhead, except that it can be executed both standing or running. at full
speed. This is a very difficult pass to
master, therefore only used by experts
after considerable practice. It is the
most difficult pass to intercept, if it
is not used too often.

Pivoting, is an important feature in
eluding opponents and very effective at
times, When receiving the ball, take
position of stride,‘stand with ball held
in both hands, throw the weight on the

 

 

  
  
  
 
   
  
     

  
 
 

UNIVERSITY HALL

APARTMENTS 1923-24,

  

  

>

“The allotment of rooms for next year will.
eb ype rn adipeaguicote beggertker

. r |

;
J
= ;
+ ‘ 4 ‘i a i
+
a, ja
f 7 ‘ : a
=e ) ieet ar f *5 ’
i | ry
4 t ; § » F
sd +
? *
’ F . ees ‘i 1 F a yi

ee LA
—w — sles Gh SS

ee
Ce

left or right foot and whirl away from
your opponent, making a complete half
turn. If the pivot is executed correctly,

the player with the ball should be two
or three feet to the side of his opponent.
When a guard is coming.in fast to cover
the man with the ball, the pivot will
elude him, and give the man with the
ball a chance to pass, dribble or shoot.

  
       
   
   
   
      
    

  

UNGAR’S

How often a perfectly good
garment is discarded because
it is soiled and stained. That
is because its owner dces not
realize our wonderful process
of French Dry-Cleaning, which
restores old clothes, and makes
them look like new.

Why not try us?

| _ Phone Sack. 428
i er Cleaning, Dyeing

  

  

Your Future ?

Some day, perhaps to-mor- !
row, you will need money.

 

will you do?

If you have been wise and
have saved the future will
not worry you.

The easiest, quickest and
most satisfactory way to
obtain money is to save it.
Save from your allowance
now, make regular deposits
in the Bank and financing
your needs will be the least

of your worries later on in

If you have not saved what
life,

THE
ROYAL BANK
OF CANADA

rs

   

J

_ Over 100 Branches tn the

se wh sa 43
WBE ody. we

rv ge Be ERT Eas
' ° x Ne Or ee

i M

   
    
  
     
     
   

      
  

    

   

   
 

 

 

  
  
 
  
 
 

 
 
 

preciate foreign flowers.

— sight.’”’

Br North’ Star quite easily?’’

you.
Fre Gatelly) Rast?

RAZZBERRIES

 

Prof. (in English 4)—We cannot apI had to go
to England to see what a wall flower
was.

A list of fiction recommended for the
summer vacation:
Insomnia, by Liza Wake.
Shorter Skirts, by Seymour Legge.
A Spot on the Wall, by Hoo Flung Mud,
The Kitten’s Revenge, by Claude Rist.
A Stop in the Desert, by Mustava Drink,
Broken Windows, by Eva Brick.

A group of students were ridiculing
a Professor’s jokes, when suddenly the
professor happened upon the spot and
overheard them,

‘‘Young men’’, he said, ‘‘I wish you
to understand that my humor is not to
be laughed at’’.

 

Prof.—A fool can ask more questions than a wise man can answer,

Student (undertone) — That’s the
reason I was plucked.

Olass in Philisophy—Prof.—Are you
tired, Miss R. f
Miss R. —Well, I am listening to zou,

Sir.

Freshman in Latin—To whom was
Minerva married ?

Prof.—My boy, when will you learn
that Minerva was the Goddess of we
dom ? She wasn’t married.

 

Soe —‘‘T tell you I have great eys
Frosh.—‘Is that so? How far can

‘you see?’’

Soph.—*‘Oh! millions of miles.”
Frosh.—‘*Don’t try to kid me.”’
Soph.—‘‘I’m not. Can’t I 6 Wises

Co-ed-—I think there ie something dove-like sbout

 

 

  

nar eee

PN : i f " sre ee " bn P c —
3 Do” Re W ¥E) ve vue:
at rs y Ey, " Ug i a 6 we y a "
“y . | oe xy oF
eS ‘ae a a

bah

“THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Nee er en EEEEnnnninenEEEnnEERnEEnenanneennentiinndttindnanaiatiteanne

B-ll M--Od--m (to fair oo-ed)—I
found a powder compact on the way
from Pine Hill this morning.

Co-ed—What kind was it ?

B. M.—Why—I—think it was ‘‘Didyer’’ Kiss ?

ee

R. J. LEARY
THE CLEANER

Cor. Argyle and er Sts.

u should,
or it.

Easter is a bit ear : but 5
nevertheléss, be p pared

Heard. after Class ’23 toboggan
party :—

Cliff Grant (at Murray Homestead)

‘‘Now we'll all sit down s0 we can
see where we stand.,’’

$2.00

is our reduced price for Dry-Cleaning
a Suit or Top Coat,

Phone Saok. 2054
Our Driver will call.

Fanette:—(Disgusted with her escort who appeared somewhat intoxicated) : “Why come to
the game drunk?”

Stude :—“S’economical,
price of one,”

see two games for the

 

THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC Goops | | Gauvin & Gentzel

18 Spring Garden Road
Photographers

Including Spalding’s
Famous Goods.
Hockey Sticks, Pucks, etc.

 

GROUP WORK
A SPECIALTY

ELITE STUDIO
Phone Sackville 692

Here you will find men of
your own age and interests
to serve you with things you
want at prices you can pay.

BELL’S

181 -—-—-——

GRANVILLE STREET

 

 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  

  
 
   
    

  
 

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY
1088 to 1090 Barrington St.

PHONE LORNE 53.

STUDENTS!

YOU CAN SAVBE‘20% on your NOTE
BOOKS and SUPPLIES at our Stere.

Wc tale an ae sansa
a position to fill your ;

   
  

   

  

 
   
   
   
   
   
  
  

: a: ”
TY sae gh oe r
¢ vi . Raiy ~« a hath : p 7 ;
“ a

   

} ws Ciel tm er Hee koe oe i yy # ea aah Fs as ea 3 “ist
.- ed Ae Ae at he a | .
a - sae i.
a ‘ = = J L .

" ~~
% " "
ode deta Se), teas
= + ~* J bt 7

BS at tae

© Lf ad | dan Rcd oe ; v oe 2 a
f
- f
! ei a ay i, a — - ee 7 i pet
a i é La
| yas.
* ial

A ’ 4
Why fu wi Dik tg
- , “ 4."
{

a

 
   
 

 
    
  
  

  
 
