 

FOUNDED 1869

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 24, 1923

No. 16

a
_

 

The Dalhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869
ssueD weeny - 0
@pvTOR eS es

~ ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Miss Juanita O'Connor, B, Comm
Vincent F. Clifford

FACULTY EDITORS

ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
H. E. READ. B.A.

Swit, BA.
Migs Ciara Murray

Miss Marion Hoben A. B. Morton
I, L. Barnhill W. S. Gilchrist
W. G, Dawson W. G, Sexton
Le E. A. Mowat
SPORTS EDITOR ‘ ce eas P, T. Hickey
PERSONALS ECITOR : é Miss E. 1. MacNeill
EXCHANGE EDITOR — b _ “ R. F. Row
| RESIDENCE REPORTERS
Miss Angela Magee W. B. MacOdrum
STAFF ARTIST * - : D. B. Green
OVERSEAS CORRESPONDENT - A. Dunlop, B.A.

ERS ASE . ‘ J. GORDON: FOGO
64 LeMarcuanr Sr., Ter. S. 2596 J.

 

_Be soe dtt wl og
| event, not only in
_gfernaeaeea uate history, but in that
¢ intellectual life, Never has a
ntest attracted a8 distinguished

  
 
 

alk send wile De
George J. Trueman, the newly inaugurated

President of Mount Allison Univetsity. It is

keen sportsmanship and generous friendly
rivalry, was evident not not alone in the
conduct of all the speakers but in that of the
audience. — Dalhousie is fundamentally
British in both origin and tradition. Hand
in hand with British tradition has always
gone the British sporting ideal—the game for
the game’s sake. Let us, Dalhousians all,
always strive toward this ideal, not only in
debating but in all branches of sport. Despite
all and serious provocation to pursue other
conduct, on the Rugby field or elsewhere,
whether as players or merely as rooters, let us
‘‘keep smilin’’’ and play the game, win or
lose. Thus Dalhousie’s name will continue to
stand as the synonym for clean sport; to
represent the British and the Canadian ideal.

The Gazette welcomes Saint Francis
Xavier’s intereollegiate football team to the
Dalhousie campus.

a. is Munro Day. In 1879 the late Mr
ro, of. ey cart eadlenrsd five

one rsh ee atts eho ite was ae

pioneer in Canadian University endowment and it was his example which led to the
presentation of many magnificent . gifts by
other men to our own and other universities.
_ For many years it has been the custom to
declare an annual autumn holiday at Dal
‘houale 3 in honor of his eet,

 

the congratulations
| students to Dr.

‘Wha Gaveite ‘eon

 

a source of pleasure to ee ree | that

tenant a of Fr
ar +i sa aoe tah
; ue es ic ,

- 2 at 4 7
i ie daugl apt

‘swimmer, and is aften found floating oe a

team, and almost every professor, even # h

ant in Engineering at ae

Dal’s Sporting Professors.

PA eal |

Are the Dalhousie rugby heroes the only’ *
ones to uphold the honor of the university?’ |
No, seek not only among the students for ‘a
athletes, for you shall not find all champions: ~~
there—look instead into the ranks of the: “
learned, that is, the Faculty.

Professor Mercer, well known to French.
and Spanish classes, last summer won the
tennis championship of the Maritime Provinces. He first won the County a

runner up. Then he went to Sydney and:
won the Provincial title, afterwards defeat-- 4 a
ing the New Brunswick champion. b

Dr. J. H. L. Johnstone, who during oe f ¥
winter discourses on Newton’s laws and the:
molecular theory, in the summer spénds his’
time converting golf balls into ‘‘mighty”
atoms.’’ This year he played in a golf” : ‘
tournament in Quebec and in several in ther
Maritimes.

‘In the winter several of the exteanie’’
Faculty betake themselves to the South nd | 4
Curling Rink, where they play. the ‘‘roarin’”
game.’? Among the best curlers in the club:
are Professor MacNeill, Dr. MacKenzie, and:
Dr. Bronson. wee

Dr. Archibald MacMechan is an expert:

 
 
       
 

  

   
    
  

 
   
    

 
 
 

   

a |

 
 
 

  

    
 
 

   

in the middle of the North West Arm. a |

And these are only a few names,—picked at
random. from the learned hordes. T
Faculty has badminton club and a volley bi

 

 
 
 

  

   
  
  

   
  

does not now play rugby or-hockey, is, or
been, a star in his own branch of sport.

mF UGE,

    
  
 
 
 

 
   
 
 
 

 

Yonde po his: cbeaplals i pa ea

     

 
 

“hndhda tte Sadi

Another wedding ot sshelené: to "4 ‘a

 

iT Vike
a ie :
i “ be fie
ae oe ae abil 3

ah poe os f the St
  

—————

Oxford Wins Debate

Audience Favors French Policy

Speaking with foree and fluency, arguing
‘clearly and coneretely and with a definite
knowledge of the subjeet, the Oxford

Debaters won the Judges’ decision over the

Dalhousie Debating Team at the Gymnasium {§

last Saturday evening,

Inspiration was not lacking for the orators,
for an audience of twelve hundred
packed the Gymnasium to hear the pros and
eons of the resolution—
Freneh oceupation of the Ruhr is. justified.’’

Dalhousie, although beaten, was by no means |

overshadowed, the speeches of Messrs.
Giechrist,
able in argument and delivery. Mr.

-debating for the first time before a Dalhousie

audience, showed that he was indeed a worthy ¢
representative of Dalhousie and Kings’, For %

Oxford, upholders of the Negative, perhaps
the most noticeable feature of the speaking of
Messrs, Bagnall, Gardiner and = Seaife was
their easy conversational manner, The
Oronians spoke, the Dalhousians made
speeches,

The visitors spoke with the understanding
that they were trying to justify the British
attitude concerning the Freneh Ruhr oeeupation rather than to win the debate. Although
they were successful in winning the debate,
they were disappointed with the attitude of
the:r Halifax audience on the merits of the
-question itself. A vote resulted in a small
majority in favor of the French poliey.

Mr. George S. Campbell, President of the
Board of Governors of Dalhousie, was chairman. He weleomed the visitors and _ introduced cach speaker in turn. His Honor
Lieutenant Governor Grant was present with
‘other notable people on the platform.

The first speaker was Sydney Gilchrist,
leader of the Dalhousie Team. ‘‘Syd,’’ well
known to Dal, was his usual self,—clear,
assertive and convincing. Going back into
‘the history of European polities, he traeed
the course of the ever present menace of
‘German ambition to France and Europe as
a whole, France is the buffer state. She
must protect... herself. permanently. from a
‘recurrence of what happened in 1914-18, The
speaker painted a vivid pieture of the wretched condition of France, devasted and in debt,
and taxing herself heavily to pay for the
‘restoration of the war areas. Germany,
‘quibbling and dodging, but not changed in
heart since 1914, would hear only language of
foree. Franee, by her aggressive action in
‘the Ruhr, had put her armies on guard
against hostile preparations, had weakened
the unity of Germany, and taken the only
‘path that would bring a maxium of reparations from the wily Hun.

Mr. E. Gordon Bagnall, leader of the Oxontone and President of the Oxford Union,
open for the Negative. In a short and witty
_ prelude he explained the English method of
- debating in which the object is ‘rather to
asen the question than to win the debate.

 

 

MaecInnes and Jones being admir- ;
Jones. |

feats re citadel foes

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Dalthousie’s Debating Team

Loa =

‘Resolved that the

MR. H. B. JONES

Coming to the subjeet under discussion he
asserted that the home debaters were making
a direet appeal to anti-German sentiment and
not to practical business policy. This was a
practical question. There is a debtor in
Kurope and how ean the creditors collect the
debt? In rebuttal to Dalhousie’s arguments
he showed that the damage done to France
had been greatly exaggerated. Her gains by
the Treaty had already made up for any
previous losses. Jor instance she had a few
mines flooded, but gained the whole Saar
Valley. If France is bankrupt now it is due
to her ambitious foreign policy. At present
she is lending money to rest of Europe. On
the other hand, her entry into the Ruhr is
having a disastrous effect. In his opinion,
based on independent authorities, Germany
cannot now pay any more, and ‘‘its no use
marching into the Ruhr if there is no money
in Germany.’’

Donald MaeInnes continued the debate for
Dalhousie in an excellent speech that was a
summary of the whole affirmative ease. He
first justified thé whole idea of reparations.
They would weigh on the German taxpayer
even lighter than the present taxes in England do on the English taxpayer. He argued
that Germany can easily pay, and would pay

‘if treated with a firm hand and shown foree
fully that she must,

Mr. G. A. Gardner, the second speaker for
Oxford, dealt with the economies of the question from the Negative’s point of view. Germany has lost all of her colonies; SchlswichHolstein, Upper Silesia, Alsace-Lorraine and
the Saar; 26 per cent of her coal and 75 per
eent of her iron, The Germans owe 33 billion
gold marks, or over twice as much as all the
gold in the world. She has been paying out
of capital, but now she must pay out of income, that is, out of her surplus of exports

moratorium in which to reeover’ her trade.
Then she could pay. ‘‘It is purely a
practical question,’’ he eoneluded, ‘‘you
cannot fish out of pockets with bayonets
money that isn’t there.’’ Mr. Gardiner made
a splendid impression. ,

H. Boardman Jones, member of Kings’
College on the Dalhousie University team,
made one of the most eloquent and powerful
addresses of the evening. He was strong in
rebuttal and set up a case in which he sought
to establish that Germany is a_ fraudulent
bankrupt. He aceussed the Germans that, on
the facts, they have pursued a policy since the
war of wanton extravagance in order to make
their country bankrupt and thus evade internal and international debts.

Mr. C. H. O. Seaife made a vigorous. reply
for the Negative, rebutting Mr. Jones’ arguments in a ‘‘machine-gun-like’’ manner. He
claimed that France is destroying the confidence of Europe and that it was the hesitancy
of the Allies that kept the Germans in
suspense for three years regarding the reparations sum. He asserted that the Dalhousie
Debaters were appealing to the heart, not the
reason ; that they were looking backward, not
forward. French poliey means a continuation of force as the arbiter of international
affairs; a reversion to the disastrous situation
of 1914,

Both Mr. Gardiner and Mr, Gilchrist made
excellent rebuttals in closing for their respeetive sides.

The Judges, Honorable Mr. Justice Chis.
holm, Dr. Webster of Shediac and Professor
Norman Mech. Rogers of Acadia gave biceal
Cocision = favor of Oxford. |

4 —R. F. R.
ee Gazette thanks R. F. R. and the City

whi for their co-operation which enabled tlie
rompt oe of - pene ee
over imports, or ate eet debate Baitor.

  
 

 

 

Shirreff Hall

evening, Oct. 13th. Delta
Gamma met at Shirreff Hall. The President,
Amy G. McKean, was in the chair. She
spoke regretfully coneerning the absence of
Miss Rose Leshe from eollcge, which necessitates her retirement from Delta Gamma this
year.

After routine business the Sophomore Class
took charge of the meeting.

Initiation into Delta Gamma this year differed somewhat from that of previous years,
taking the form of a dignified ceremony.

Delta Gamma was very glad to be able to
receive into its membership the King’s eoeds. This year all Delta Gamma meetings
will be held in Shirreff Hall. There is no
(doubt that when the eity girls get to know
the Residenee, the attendance at Delta Gamma will be record breaking.

 

On Saturday

—A. M.

IMPORTANT!
Tickets for Saturday’s Big Championship Game
at Studley will be sold as follows: South (Wan
derers stands) at Dalton and Taylors and Fitzpatricks stores, from Wednesday 24th on. Students

will have same eerenpnenNt as before.

ae —— —_- -—— ee —

TENORS WANTED FOR GLEE CLUB SHOW
URGENT!

— ee

The meanest man in the world has been
discovered. The night before Christmas he
told his little boy that Santa Claus was dead.

tt 
| r Scotts Ltd. |

30 ‘SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Headquarters for Dal. Boys

A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds,~ Winter Overcoats, Hats and
Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suiteases and Bags.

\

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

DON’T FORGET WE’RE ON THE
CORNER

 

JENSEN & MILLS (0. LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST.

_—

_ THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

RIGHT — QUALITIES

PRICES
RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT
|
|

 

 
 
 
   

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

FINAL REGISTRATION STATISTICS
1923-24

Arts and Science ...........000:- 499

RM cx cceeedet 4 ewER REESE ET ESSE 60
(Including duplicates, 67)

Medicine ....... ccc cccceevecees 150

(Including duplicates, 159)
PE wadtecsnced wee eTueaenes 50
PN ccacssiadave wadaah ears 17
776

(51 King’s students are included in Arts
and Science above).

“Saltatio Socieiatis Medicae Daihouslana.”

The mueh-talked-of Medieal Dance has
come and gone, and all who were there agree
that it fulfilled their highest expectations.

la originality the Meds far outshone other
Faculties; the decorations were such as have
never before been seen at Studley; the Gymnasium never looked as well as it did last
Wednesday night.

Arrangement of the orchestra was an innovation. A eanopy of gold and black was
suspended over the centre of the flooor, and
under this was a space roped off with streamers of Dal colors and surrounded with flowers,
Here, the orchestra, decked out in operating
gowns, furnished the jazz, while incense
smoke curled around their heads from two
little jars plaeed at the feet of the idol Budha.
Above the platform a grinning real-to-goodness skeleton with white gloves on its bony
hands stood in the attitude of a daneer, and
around the walls smaller skeletons were
sketched in most of the many different occupations which make up the life of the medical
student. For example, in one corner the
skeletons were tackling viciously in approved
football style; in another they were joy-riding a la Ford, and at another place they were
even glimpsed in the anatomy room disecting
another of their kind.

A very practical system for finding partners
was successfully introduced by the Meds. At
intervals around the room the letters of the
alphabet were placed, and at the beginning
of each number the young ladies stood under
the letter corresponding to the initial of their
respective surnames.

The chaperones were Mrs. E. V, Hogan,
Mrs. H. K. MeDonald, and Mrs. H. B. Atlee.
‘‘Ap REIN,”’

 

SODALES INFORMAL.

 

The Oxford Debaters were entertained to
an informal luncheon as guests of Sodales
after the debate on Saturday night. The
Dalhousie team and most of the student
officers of the University were present. There

were no speeches, but everybody enjoyed
themselves, |

Pine Hill Post

The irrepressible ‘‘J’’ simply cannot elude’
the limelight. His latest episode has forever:
von hima plaee in the Piae ijl annals.
Qnee in a while we do have ice-eream and
‘J’’ has these occasions timed to a sceond.
At any rate he googled his eyes towards the
ice-cream team; ‘on Thursday.. Some times:
ehanee favors mortals. <A freezer rolled out
of the wagon and ‘‘J,’’ all thoughts of his:
appendix gone, captured it. Needless to say
as he lived in the vicinity of Robb and
Dunphy the contents got no time to melt.

A voice of yesteryear came back when
last evening a Freshman, who sings just like
Webster, ambled through the halls singing,
‘When You and I Were Young Maggie.’’

Following closely in the wake of the truly
great, the exceedingly urbane and ubiquitious Barnaby has suceeded John Dunlop and
Charlie MaeIntosh as solicitor for that unknown, mysterious and mueh favored
‘Ihitty.’’ So well has he performed _ his
duties that if on a Saturday evening you
stroll into her sanctum, you think you have
suddenly landed in the midst of a Pictou
Academy re-union.

Bob Ross reports the development of a
wisdom tooth. Your humble reporter begs to
congratulate the Exehange Editor on his final
emergency from the chrysalis of childish
innocence,

A curious hirsute appendage is making
commendable growth on the upper lip of
Billie MaePhee. 7

Other loves. (e. g. Clouston’s) rise and
wane but for unwavering fidelity that of
John Morrison is impossible to surpass,

Dunean MeMillan has at last fallen into the
clutches of the Halifax City Police. They
let him out on probation provided he would
sell 25 tickets to the Cops’ danee. That
explains his super-aetivity of late.

The Pine Hill pyjama band made a hit at
the football game. Pine Hill also sent a real
wind-jammer to the chariot race and, had
Robb. been living a little faster lately, should
have won.

By jingo, she’s a pippin, that flaxen-haired,
cherry-faced, permanent-waved fairy in the.
Woolworth shop that Sam casts loving eyes:
at. An engineer ean plot almost anything.

In the battle with the Dentals, Ted Cumm.- »
ings suffered a compound fracture of theolfactory organ—honorable sears.

HOT, SHOTS.

What will Edwin Johnstone do when the
artists leave the Marlboro woods?
Was it a ‘‘Wandering’’ dear that gave
Thompson the red and black sweater?
—**Tabellarius.’’

 

‘*Here lies poor old Henry Reeve,
He had a fifth ace up his sleeve.’’
—Daily.

 

At Luncheon for Oxonians:

D. MacInnes—That soup tastes canny.
©, Baxter—It must be Scotch.
 

{,
i |
i

ih
ni
i;

H

| f

:

;

le eiaeteatien Mitediecies
oe

‘
;

  

mE

Se omy: re

Fe SS Te:
TST ee

A Touch of

r= = PS TYIESS, a re = ba ye y meee en r) eS ar ' ey {seam a Ts a E i Re 7 APL aAyT a - . 7 A
i > er = - raz ae H ey \ eh in APTN AL / mn ee ayers _ is Pt ae hl e ft ns nee, al a yee eer! Ohem sb gay ae GA Tag: Fi
ba Y" ; a a ) Pay a tm oe ace: ire %,
vw r i eee A ret N Fie » 0) a =e boca th Fe
. = ae Ph ih 7 t ' . 1
vy. i ' ‘ ‘

ree ra

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Long Ago. |

By W. B. MacOprvum.

Some people know Cape Breton. Some see
~beyond the skyline of the smokestacks © at
Sydney or delve deeper than the collieries at
the ‘‘Mines’’. There are still people who

.@an tell at a glance the original Scot when he

.appears among the conglomerate assembly
‘that has poured into our Island from the
four quarters of the globe. Now and then
there is a tourist whose view pierces beyond
the deep blue of the Bras’Or Hills; who
-opens the doors of the cottages that line the
picturesque Mira Bay. For these this article
.is not written.

There are folk, however, who do not know

‘what goes on behind our hills and in our

quiet valleys. To this it may be a revelation
‘that, even within a few miles of our gigantic

industries the soothing whirr of the spinning

wheel is still heard; that even yet the handloom weaves cloths rivalling those of the
‘Tweed.

When, of a winter’s evening,the Cape
Breton country folk gather before a cheerful
open hearth, when a glass of ‘‘something hot”’

_is passed around, Gaelic master craftsmen tell

tales of the weird, the occult, the super
-natural—for the belief of the Celt in things
‘unseen but not imaginary is very strong. It
.seems as if they have kept nearer old Scotland

-than their kinsmen in the mother land. To
‘this day the words:

‘‘From the lone sheiling of the misty
islands,
Mountains divide us and a waste of seas.
Yet the blood is stong, the heart is Highland,
And we in dreams, behold the Hebrides’’,

~~ +

-are very real and poignant to them.

For the student of the psychic there is a”
-deep interest in ‘the annals of these people;
‘there are stories of ghosts and fairies and
forerunners that seem to be backed by irr-efutable evidence.
‘latter viewpoint that I investigated some of
‘these stories. They are not the legendary
~ fables that have been passed on from father

It is mainly from the

to son for generations untold, but narratives

| ae actual incidents told me by normal living
men and women.

One of the most familiar of our ghosts was

the one known as ‘‘Bodach Mairi,’’ literally
-“"Mary’s Old Man.’’ . How he came by this

title I do not know, but for years a stretch of
road was, after dark, untravelled.” At length
an old blacksmith called the ‘‘Gobha Ban,’’
| Titerally ‘‘White Blacksmith,’’ from’ the .
patriarchal whiskers he cultivated, settled in
- the village. Immediately it was noticed that
_ he was the exact dbl ofthe apparition that
) xed Us 80 am Two men, both elders

 

ean distinctly remember an old seer warning
me not to walk in the centre of the road lest
a funeral pass over me. This man, a kindly
middle-aged gentleman who is a link with the
earlier generations has a wide reputation
‘hroughout rural Cape Breton. A friend of
his told me that they were both visiting at the
same house, in fact having ‘‘seen ‘the girls
home.’’ On the way back they had to cross
ihe new bridge, just built over the Mira
River. He pulled his friend suddenly to one
side remarking, ‘‘A funeral has passed over
the bridge. What I can’t understand is
the Sutherlands were the chief mourners
although they live on this side of the bridge.’’
Many years afterwards a lady of the Sutherland family took sick very suddenly and died
at a friend’s house, across the river. The
cortege left the house where she died and
thus the seer’s strange fore-knowledge was
verified.

There is another interesting and quaint old
tradition. It is to the effect that the last
person buried must keep guard over the
cemetery gate and subdue the spirits within
its bounds. This is a position far from being
coveted, and when two persons die at about
the same time there is great haste among their
respective mourners to be the first to close the
grave,

Here is a story that I have verified to my
satisfaction. Two teachers in the Loch Lomond section of the Island were leaving at
dawn, on a Monday morning, for their
schools, a considerable distance away.
Suddenly, skimming along the side of the
lakes, appeared a fully equipped train. They
could see the lights through the windows;

_could even distinquish passengers walking

through the cars. To this day there is not
a railway within fifteen miles of the place,

but perhaps some day the fore-runner will |

come true.
About two years ago a child was burned
to death under extremely sad circumstances,
A week or so before the tragedy occurred, a
woman living at a distance of some four miles
heard cries, as if there were a child in extreme
anguish. She thought little of it until she
heard that her six year old cousin had died
in fearful agony. |
Here is another which seems
absolutely true. It happened practically
alongside my home, A country |
routed out the dwellers of a house to make
them observe what seemed like chains of
Aanterns wending slowly from a house a

,*

 

 

The attempt by the Literary Digest to
discover the ten best books of the century is
interesting from several points of view. It
illustrates the temperament of the people and

the quality of the work being done.. Included
in the October list are the ‘‘Outline of
History, Old Wives Tales, Jean Christophe,
{it Winter Comes, The Four Horsemen of the
Apocalypse, The Life of Christ, The Crisis,
The Forsyte Saga, The Story of Mankind,
Ethen From, Queen
Dynasts.’’

An old definition of a great book is ‘‘one
that appeals to the largest number of people
of different kinds, not once but again and
again.’’ A great book is read in childhood
uud makes a deep impression. Years afterward the same person reads the book and
still it has an appeal—it has stood the test of
the years of ones self development. It has
universality.

Everyone has not the ability to appreciate
a good book. People must be educated to a

certain point, they must have a background 
sufficiently varied and colored to appreciate
good work. The story is told of a group of
people in an art gallery. One of the party
remarked, ‘‘I don’t care for all these highbrow pictures; I know what I like.’”’ An
artist who was standing beside him replied,
‘‘It is not that you know what you like, but
that you like what you know—and at present.
you know nothing!’’

Censure on the non-appreciation of a
good book should be severe as the means for

acquiring the requisite background lies with-_

in the reach of almost everybody.

THE MAGICIAN.

Once I asked an old, magician

What the future held for me,

What my happiness would be.
Should I be high patrician
~ Ruling o’er my native land?
Or, perchance, a great musician

Touching with magic hand?
Or with wealth, huge fleets controlling,
Heaped zh with Eastern treasures,

bowling
Over seas,—past coral strand?

At my words the old:
Gazed within bis cryatal epherw,

 
 
  
  

Victoria and the

ir ae ye pe: prot Cee ae pe a m
SERN tLe a ree, Me at ee
- Ne Ded Pass r wr Or te Pas ~ « bs Le - oot 1
’ ? 5 iy 7 7 : 7 es

 
  

COMMERCE CLEARINGS.

 

The first meeting of the Commerce Society
was held on Thursday, Oct. 18, Twentyseven members were present, with President
“‘Doug’’ Campbell presiding.

A social committee was appointed, with
Reg. Piercey as chairman, .to arrange a
theatre party and dance in the near future.
A yell committee was also appointed composed of MeQuarrie and McElmon.

Clyde Mosher was elected chairman of the
Archives committee.

The department is again deeply indebted
to Mr. W. A. Black for his generous contribution of $200.00, for the further purchase of
books.

H. C. Muir is leaving for Chicago, having
accepted a position with the National City
Bank there. Enroute he frolics at St.
Andrews-by-the-Sea !

The ever ambitious Juanita O’Connor, B.
Comm., this year is after an Arts degree.

After holidaying in Boston, New York, and
other industrial centres, O. R. Crowell, B.
Comm., has returned to the city to continue
his chosen career. The boys hope to see

**Ogsie’’ often.
——ft, AM.

SNAPPY SENIORS SET THE
PACE.

 

Class ’24 is keeping up it record for having
the liveliest parties of any class in Arts. On
Friday evening, joined by the Seniors of
Kings’, and chaperoned by Mrs. Murray
Macneill, they journeyed out the St. Margaret’s Bay Road, to the ‘‘Rod and Gun
Club’’ House where they enjoyed a bean
supper in lieu of the corn boil which had at
first been planned.

Dancing followed during which everyone
got acquainted again, for sometimes the holidays make the members of a class feel like
strangers to each other. The time to go home
came far too soon, but that did not dampen
the spirits of the Seniors, and on the way
their songs and yells drowned the noise of the
motor’ buses. :

Tie Gic's aks olisies il 'S la

‘a that there vm be another funetion—
- “Ap Rem.”’

 

 

rete. WTS eS ©, sid
: a om her i
Me Y 1a) rs, ee Ry US oe le

se

‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZE

ooo SSSEEEESanBSSSEeEeEeEeEeEeE_OQQQSSQSEQES™“ETE“QEHEQDTEHYDS™EE

GLEE CLUB GETS GIRLS; MISSES MEN!

 

Attendance at the Glee Club on Monday evening, Oct. 15th, was disappointing. It consisted of
a very creditable number of girls but only about
one-third as many men. This may have been due
to the heavy rain which was falling about the
time that the meeting commenced, but that would
seom rather a ridiculous idea, because Dal huskies,
who have survived Freshman hazing, football and
Leiin Il, would srey not shrink from a little
rain.

It may be that some of the newcomers to Dalhousie do not know what the Dalhousie Glee and
Dramatic Society is, and so have been a little
bashful about showing up. No one is required to
take part in any of its entertainments or to make
himself conspicuous in any way.

These meetings are for all University students.

‘Their aim is to provide entertainment, to familiar
ize the student body with its college songs, and to
promote friendliness and general good-will.
Watch the notice boards for the next announce
ment.
—M. H.

DENTAL IMPRESSIONS.

At the Dalhousie Dental Society meeting,
held in Room 29, on Oct. 10th, considerable
business of interest to the Society was transacted and last, but not least the matter of
holding a Dental Dance was brought up.

After considerable discussion, it was decided to stage a ‘‘tooth pullers’ hop’’ in the
gymnasium at Studley, and that an effort
would be made to have it the first Dalhousie
dance after Christmas. The idea of fixing
the date so far in advance is to give any members of the Society, who have not as yet joined Charlie MelIntosh’s Saturday Night
Birgade a chance to get some practise in the
art during the Xmas holidays, and also to
enable the committee to make. ‘suitable preparations. The Society has a reputation to
nphold.

The Dental football squad showed up well
in a practise game against Pine Hill on Oct.
13th, winning the game by a score of 6-0.

Manager Turnbull decided to cut out the
Saturday night workout for the forwards, as
some of them are getting too light on their
feet. While a considerable kick was put up
by the 4th year men, they finally decided that
in view of what was at stake they will refrain from indulging in the ‘‘Terpsichorean
Art.’’ until the football season is over.

wn! YoRay,"’

 

 

 

PLOTS AND PLANS
The first meeting of the Engineering
‘Society, was held in the drafting room on

a October 5th. A warm welcome was wee

to Kings’ engineers.
Joe Pringle was elected President of the

Society, and Gerry Stairs Vice-President, to
-yeplace Bill MacInnis and Clive Currie, who

‘gre among the missing; Bill having gone to

M. I. T., and Clive being convalescent.

 

  

PPT ITT LHe PM MTL MTT SALINE TIPE fT
. |

THE LAWYER’S BRIEF

Ray Newsome, of the ’23 Class, was admitted to the Bar of Nova Scotia, August 31st.

Jack Nicholson, Law ’23, and Business
Manager of the Dalhousie Gazette for the past
three years, has joined the firm of Russell,
Haneox & Anderson, Barristers, in Vancouver, British Columbia.

Edgar Longheed, Law ’23 has been called
io the Bar of Alberta, and is practising with
the firm of Lougheed, MecLaws, Sinclair &
Redman, in Calgary.

So Bannington McAskill ‘‘has gone and
done it.’’! Benny’s exact whereabouts is a
inystery at. present, but the boys in Law wish
him all suecess and happiness.

Forrester Davison of the ’23 Class is taking
a post-graduate course at Harvard University, Cambridge.

Gerald Flavin, Law ’23, is practising with
the firm of Silver & Nichols, Barristers,
Halifax.

Dudley MecGeer of the ’23 Class has passed
the Bar examinations at Vancouver and has
been called to the Bar of British Columbia.

Erie Jerret, Law ’23, was admitted to the
Bar of Newfoundland in June, and is now
associated with William R. Hawley, K. C., St.
John’s, Newfoundland.

 

MISS DOUGLAS ELECTED

The first general meeting of Dalhousie Glee
and Dramatic Society was held in the gymnasium Monday night. |

The principal business on hand was the
election of a Vice-president. Miss Julie
Douglas was elected.

Days were fixed for rehearsal of the musical
eomedy ‘‘The Maid and the Middy,’’ which
is to be staged some time in November; and
the remainder of the evening was spent in
dancing.

The attendance was not as large as usual,
but once the meetings are well under way,
the popularity of Glee Club is certain to
reach the high level of last yéar.

‘é Ap REIN’’.

 

(Husband, looking excitedly for his wife.)
‘Bridget, do you know anything of my wife’s
whereabouts ?’’

Bridget :—‘‘ Yes. Sorr; I put thim in the — .

wash,

_— ad

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
Three Phones

The Society commenced social activities —

CMa Babe parle 06 Ps Maes

‘The guests of honour, were Professor and —
, Copp a ee

a

   

 

Bi
Te ag me 2a i>
ra vert: : a Bk Ne lene bi Zbl 7 4 P , ? mie = ~ vw + . “aro ° een Wy "9 — is , "aoe. a aoe pie | ’ ;, alee “et iD eu) erate Eh, ir: re Me |, Sree = 7 ? of oe ven ey “ny "eri at a? oe cae Yee 7 AS I MP eee et 8 ae CP a wu 7 An ae Pr i
| ; mF - are ." toma e thake & : f ala wy he oer) rage? ee | . rs, ee Sn) 3) iia AL te ‘i = ert ee ice. Saks: : tele a Seva ls Pee Th ake oy "
‘
. ——oooeeeeeeee———ooaoaooaoaoaoooooEESoSEaaaEeE=E€x=E=Ew=E™=_QqQq_™Qq gggeeeTSSSaSSSSaawaa_=—=s=—" : ~

a_i

 

Wanderers Win; Tech Defeats King’s College

      
   

 

 

 

 

 

PLAYERS

+ t NAVY CUT
‘| CIGARETT ES

 
 
   
       
    
    

 

I} NPs ,

yee Super-Quality”

fi aL. f

Pi /O for 186

eras 7 20” SD’ id
W!/)'° 50 and 100

My")
WM,
Se A) ji :
S S Se. nd We SS

">

=

ae

More sold
than all other brands
combined

   

f

 

 

 

    
      
  
 
 

 

Wanderers 4, Dalhousie 3

Dalhousie were defeated by the Wanderers,
by the. close score of 4-3 in the local Rugby
league game, played on the Wanderers’
grounds last Saturday afternoon.

Although the weather conditions were unsuitable, some two thousand persons attended
and witnessed a hard fought contest. Irom
the standpoint of rugby it.was a far better
match than the previous week as both teams
suppressed their inclinations to fight and
played football instead, . Dalhousie as a
sporting University should always lead the
way in clean sport and Saturday’s game was
no exception to this principle. As it was a
number of players were injured, but in pure
aceidents.

The Wanderérs had to win this game or
lose the league, and they attacked Dalhousie
right from the start. The Tigers came back
strong however and had the better of the play
for the remainder of the first half. The
Collegians pressed hard at times during this
period of the game, and several good opportunities to score were either lost, or blocked
by the Reds. The period ended with neither
team able to register a touch.

The Tigers started away good at the opening of the second half, but the Reds punted
the pigskin to the Dal 20 yd. line where
Hunter secured the ball and passed to MeCoy
who made a beautiful drop kick over the bar.
This was their only score but it was enough to
give them the game.

The Collegians now put new life into their
play and the half line began to get in their
work and make long gains. Several times
they were within an ace of scoring. At last
after a number of secrims on the Wanderers
10 yd. line, Pat Slipp, got over a nice-pass
to MacDonald, who succeeded in foreing his
way over the line in the far corner of the
field for the only touch of the game. The
score was now 4 to 3.

Haslam made a splendid effort to convert,
against the wind, and at an almost impossible
angle, but the ball fell short.

From Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for
greater athletic accomplishment are the
boys who pick

Play became faster as the Tigers endeavoured to score another touch and the Reds doing
ell in their power to delay the remaining time.
Fraser by long punts kept the ball in the
Red’s territory for a time, but the | Reds
gradually worked their way into the Dal
territory, and were forcing the Collegians to
touch for safety, MeCoy attéfhpted another
drop kiek, but it was disallowed, The
Wanderers were pressing hard when the
whistle blew, ending Dalhousie’s chances to
finish the league, in that game. MeCoy was
not marked as well as in the previous games
and played a wonderful game for the Reds.
Lilly and Edwards were also very effeetive.
Dal’s half line played well, Haslam, Bates
and Slipp played a splendid gaine and
Fraser saved the day a number of times in
the backfield. Mr. J. W. Allen refereed a
hard game in an impartial manner. The last
game of the schedule will take place on the
Dalhousie Campus next Saturday afternoon.

he Wanderers Intermediates defeated
Dal 3—0 in a hard game.

‘

 

KINGS DEFEATED BY
TECH. 10-3.

In the first game’ of the. Eastern Intercollegiate Rugby League, the Nova Seoiis
Tech Team easily vanquished their opponents
from Kings’ College. This is the first year
for Tech in Intercollegiate sport and they
show promise of doing well.

Both teams showed lack of practice, and the
rugby played was not of first class order,
nevertheless many fine runs and dashes were
made. Morrison the Tech quarter was the

 

star, scoring seven of the ten points. He.

passed to Crowdis who made the first touch,
and then went across the line himself for the
second touch; later-in the game he seored a
field goal.
Teed scored Kings only touch a 20 yard run.
Jakeman failed to convert by inches. Dr.
Leon Fluck handled the whistle in a satisfactory manner. A large number of former
Dalhousie men are included in the Tech
line up.

 

Queens took the lead in the Intercollegiate
Senior race when they defeated Varsity at
Toronto by a seore 9-3. Queens had seventyfive per cent of the play.

Argonauts rugby team of Toronto tied the
Inter-Provincial game with the Montreal A.
A. A. at Montreal on Saturday, by a seore of

a all;Argonauts thereby taking the lead.

 

ACADIA AND TECH PLAY DRAW.

—e—e—

INTERCOLLEGIATE NOTES

The schedule for the Intereollegiate football and basketball games in the Western
Section of the League was drawn up at Truro
recently, and is as follows:

FOOTBALL :
Oct. 25—Aecadia at Mt. A.
Nov. 2—Mt. A. at U. N. B.
Nov. -8—U. N. B. at Acadia.

Referees — McCoy; (provisfonal, Ralston,

Buekley, Williams).

BASKETBALL :
Mareh 20—U. N. B. at Mt. A.
April 83—Mt. A. at Acadia.

Referees—Hutton, Abbot.

In case of a three-cornered tie in the Westcin League, the team scoring the largest
number of points will meet the winner of the
Eastern League. The play-off game is to be
played at Amherst not later than Nov. 15th.

The expenses of the referees will be posted
by the two colleges participating in any
game.

The track meet for the Western League is
to be held at Fredericton on May 2nd.

FAR AND WIDE.

Pictou Academy Football team defeated the
New Glasgow High School at the N. G. A. A.
grounds, Oct 1". by a seore 6-5. Pictou had
the first half, while New Glasgow outplayed
them in the second.

Mount Allison defeated Moncton. Senior
Rugby Team at Sackville, Oct. 15, by a seore
6-0 Mt. A. received eight free kicks. Flood
was the mainstay of their team.

 

 

 

 

 

The Wanderers, last year Provincial rugby
champions, have been invited to participate
in two games at Montreal on Nov. 3-and 5.

 

The Granites hockey team senior 0, H. A.
champions and Allan Cup holders, will
represent Canads at the Olympics, and will
gail from St. John for Paris on January 11th.
An effort is being made to arrange a game
with the Sussex, N. B. team.

— ee A LMM ALAA =

@ You know the rest of
ALPHA; BET this Alphabet, but won't
you learn the Alphabet from a music dealer’s
text book. It starts like this:—

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons,

Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles,

Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos,

Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums.
EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC.
We also carry a nice line of Pictures—
Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield Parrish’s, etc.

We Invite You to Join Our Fiction

~ Lending Society, 2c per day.

 

  

 

Ss

sii ie tert a

 

 
    
 

  

  

  

en eae Acadia and the N. 8. Tech Sales bs cross J. A. McDONALD PIANO
—,. NYTHI G YOU NEE! “no score. Both . & MY Bs + LTD. ‘liad
Ty , q “4 a ; ; 1200,
 

H
a
1}
H

te

— Bere Mh
a ict SR” Sein Nee

7 Es Ie SES hy
se ga omy. We Salt
li an oe RET

ae Fe rT " er
~ meet ta

 

< ||

iam‘ @
\e

TONS Pr, ear a TT) “ro lah a 5 ' ,
re pe ee a VS er ra 7 AS re BP a py Og ee nm hl eee tt
. i y ‘ "i 1 ar :* 74 # pe en we. Sie % 
=
\

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Kliff’s Krazy Kuts

Jim Reid—(After Kelly MacLean’s accident at football game)—‘‘ Beat 4t down town
Kelly and get a new blind for your ‘‘sitting
room, ”’

 

Goldberg—W here do you live Miss C—?
Miss C—In Dartmouth, near the harbour;
I wish that you would drop in some time.

 

Prof.—Mr. Bethune, how would you pune
‘duate this sentence-—‘‘A beautiful young

lady sat alone by the fireside’’?

C. B.—I’d make a dash after the young
lady.

Partnership Lecturer (calling roll)—‘‘ Mr.
Friel.’’

Sn-d-s—‘‘ Here, sir.’’

Lecturer—‘‘You might give us the first
ease, Mr. Friel.’’

 

 

Instructor in Math. I (stopping in the middle of an exercise)—‘‘Miss Foote, can you
tell me the next step?’’

 

Shirreff Hall—‘‘ Would you like to go for
a nice long walk?’’

Pine Hill—‘‘Gee, I’d love to.”’

S. H.—‘‘Then don’t let me detain you.”?

 

Freshette (1)—Are you taking Economies?
Freshette (2)—Yes, but I haven’t found
out what Eeonomies are yet.

     

Coast to Coast Clothing

make a specialty of catering to the
Students from Halifax to Vancouver.
Now showing high grade productions in

WINTER OVERCOATS & SUITS
Suits $17.50 to $39.00

Overcoats $17.50 to $37.50

Walk up Stairs and Save $10.

ROBINSON’S CLOTHES

Limited
444 BARRINGTON ST.

In the Interscholastic

      
       
   
   
     
   

Juttior
e, Kings Collegiate defeated Acadia at
Vern by a score of 4-3;

Rugby

oe Se a ee

Gauvin & Coinzed

18 Spring Garden Road
PHOTOGRAPHERS

GROUP WORK
A SPECIALTY

—

| Sue ST UDIC

rn ea ciel it

Wi ane aint a Spe 2

is) ba .
aa oe

tt eee
) Meds ers

ROBINSON’S |

few hours to live, these are called in.

 

Seo OOS

DALHOUSIE MOOT COURT.

The Moot Court Committee has made
arrangements for a large number of cares to
be heard in the Dalhousie Moot Court during
the present year.

As in former years the Judges will be
chosen from the Third Year Law Students,
Senior Counsel from the Second Year and
Junior Counsel from the First Year Students.

Their Lordships will sit every Tuesday
afternoon at 2.30 o’clock for the hearing of
all eases which may be brought before them.

A cordial invitation has been extended to
all students of the University to attend the
trials during the present session.

DAL GIRLS’ YELL.

 

1—2—3, U—pi—dee.

Who are, who are, who are we?
Wait a minute, you will know,
We’re the girls that have the go,
Yip-yap-ya, yip-yap-ye.

We’re the girls of Dalhousie.

A TOUCH OF LONG AGO
(continued )

the Grim Reaper to a family. Scott tells ot
the ‘‘Bodach Blas,’’ the ‘‘Grey Seeptre’’ who
invariably warned the chiefs of the “lan Ivor.
Old carpenters icli how their tools were often
uisarranged by unseen hands. When, as
formerly was the case, coffins were made at
home, a strange rumbling noise was often
heard among the boards that later became the
bier.

One midnight a large number of people
were preparing to leave a wake. They saw
globular orbs of fire rise skyward from half
a dozen houses seattered about the country
side. In the order in which those balls shot

heavenwards, one after another, ‘‘L’Envoi’’
was sounded in those homes.

Medical men no doubt know that, to this ue
people afflicted with cancer go from points as
far south as Cape Breton County to Inverness, where some person, whose name I have

not been able to determine, professes to cure
‘ them, The same thing is true of what is

commonly called ‘‘King’s Evil.’’ In this
ease the seventh son of the seventh son is
supposed to be gifted with divine powers, and

_ often when the seale of Jife sinks low, when —

the doctor says that a loved one has but a

J § Se al >
: . - in
+ :

ta he. & ‘eet. 1 un ry

* J
Y Bae is ‘ ad f hal ,

oI


 

 

Finest’ Materials, Lining and

Trimmings with best workman
ships at reasonable prices.

Clayton & Sons

Tailors & Clothiers

 

Moirs Chocolates

the famous confection of Dalhousie
students for generations, because they
are the freshest, have the most varied
A#liings, and are covered by the most
delicious eating.

 

MOIRS LIMITED arcYLe sr.

The College Girl
Likes A Hat

that combines style, quality, modesty

and economy. Call and see our smart

‘“‘Dal’’ shapes. _
Turner's Millinery
96 Gottingen St.

BELT LINE CAR

 

ae a

TA Afternoon or r Evening |

 

 

 
