  

eS ee

7

tion as outlined in the tentative

VOL. LV.

LL LL LL TT A
ee
a a cr

The Dalhousie Gazette

Founded 1869
Issued Weekly - - - ~- One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - - + + + J. GORDON FOGO
Associate Editors
Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean
Miss Juanita O’Connor OD. C. oun
R. F. Callan M. M. Me
H, A. Creighton, B.A. R. R. Dalgleish
P. M. Cassidy
~ Sports Editor . 2¢ ..F .* +8 H E. Read, B A
1 Reporters
A. C. Milner D. R. Webster, B.A.

Overseas Correspondent - - J. A. Dunlop, B.A.

Staff Artists
Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie

RUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
129 Spring Garden Road

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable to the Busiress Manager.

EDITORIAL

A resolution of the: Board of Gov
~ ernors of Dalhousie University, express
ing their ‘‘willingness and desire’’ to
“nd the scheme of university ae
an
placed before them, was passed at t eir
meeting last week. Those who are

 
 
       
 
  
 
        
    
 
 
 
     
   
   

ar with the - ‘educational

at nade in the Maritime Provinces
preciate the spirit eee rompt
a Tes.

 

wor aiaet to.
| self-cen- y

ad eee. SA SS
Rae ie tel ge:

SR

 

FOUNDED 1869

 

DR. HERBERT GRAY

Noted Preacher Addressed Students
m Gymnasium on Saturday Last.

Dr. Herbert Gray arrived in the city
last week and met the students en masse
for the first time on Saturday noon in
the Gymnasium, From a_ student’s
standpoint the meeting was a most happy one, the inspiring words and compelling personality of Dr. Gray making

a profound impression on those who
cuumasen the large audience. The subject of Dr. Gray’s address was ‘‘What
is the good of religion?’’ Unfortunately, space will not permit a full account of the proceedings.

Later on Saturday, Dr. Gray was
the guest of the 8, C, A. delegates to the
Toronto Conference at a banquet held
in the city Y. M. C. A. A complete account of Dr. Gray’s visit to Dalhousie
will appear next week.

Canadidns at Harvard

BOSTON, Mass.On the evening of
February 23, the combined membership
of the Harvard Canadian Club and the
Massachusetts Institute of Technol
’s British Empire Club met at a

oint gathering at the Harvard Club of
hey The host for the evening was
Mr. Warner, of Boston, whose interest

in the Canadian Club of parrere has —

been unfailing since that gentleman
himself was a member, and the speaker
was Rev. Dr. Cornish, of Wein who
delivered an ‘extremely interesting and
very instructive lecture on the present

   

conditions in the province of Transylvania, ceded after the late war to the
Roumanians. The lecture was illustrated from | sera made by the
| of ¥ was a mem
of a commission of

Bi lane, bal

 

ate

nate Gazette

 

ee enema

 

No, 9

THE LAW W BANQUET 1923

‘*There’s not a flaw, flaw, flaw
On the boys in Law, Law, Law
That’s the work for you and me.”’

One of the most elaborately planned
and successfully staged annual banquets of the Law Society was held in
the Carleton Hotel on the evening of
Tuesday, February 27. Prominent
members of the Bench and Bar, the
President, and the Dean and members
of the Law Faculty were the guests of
— of the Society at this affair de
une,

Charles Beazley, chairman of the
entertainment committee and a member of this year’s graduating class, acted in the capacity of toastmaster and
filled the position in a most pleasing
manner. The toast list resulted in a
number of happy speeches on a variety
of interesting topics concerning college,
local and national life. The we
and. subjects were:

L. W. Fraser—Canada—J. R Nicholson,

N. A. MacKenzie—The University—
Pres. A. S. MacKenzie.

C. S. Richardson—The Bench and Bar
—Hon. Mr. Justice Russell, Hon. W.
J. O’Hearn, K. C.

A. M. Matheson—The Law School—
Dean MacRae. 3 ae

J. G. Fogo—The Ladiee—P rot. J. me
Read.

G. P. Flavin—Our Se eat niditonn. Mr.
Justice Mellish, Hon. Mr. Justice
Chisholm, Stuart Jenks, K. C.

The committee in charge, on whom
the success of the banquet reflects no
small credit, was composed of Messrs.
C. Beazley, A. M. Matheson and P.
Slipp.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

ae Gi pate wishes to acknowl
nee Cawn ge

 

 
ee a ee
—_ - - —_——— eee,

“Character in Business”

The eagerly anticipated lecture of
Mr. George S. Campbell took place
Wednesday, February 28th, under the
auspices of the Commerce Society. The
subject was ‘‘Character in Business”’,
the necessity of which Mr. Campbell

impressed upon his hearers in his very.

interesting manner. He first made a
clear distinction between character,
‘‘which is what we are,’’ and reputation, or ‘*‘what we seem to be’. For
success in business the three essentials
are character, ability and industry.
Mr. Campbell then outlined a truly
successful business career, beginning at
the junior period and following the subject through to the prominent business
manager or owner stage, enumerating
the qualities of character that should
attend the development. He then showed the importance of a good character
in obtaining credit from banks. Finally
he made a sketch of the three types of
business men in .the world today. The
first type is the man who pays all his
attention to his own business and has
no interest outside it. The second is
he who pays all attention to everybody’s business but his own, and the
third and best type is the man who follows the middle path, earnestly developing his own business, and at the
same time taking an active interest in
the community. Mr. Campbell urged
Commerce students to be like the best
» type..and concluded.-by wishing each
df them ‘‘a most honorable and e
perous busimess career.”? J. O’O.

Pine Hill Post

The boys have almost recovered from
the At Home, and the next thing is the
Glee Club entertainment. Ches. Oake
still tells about his little party on the
night of the At Home. It was quite
out of bounds, and he spent a whole
week before hand camouflaging his
room. The cracks in the wall were covered with pictures and the stains in the
tablecloth with books. As a decorator
Class ’24 has a valuable addition to its
numbers.

The Theologues’ basket-ball team,
consisting of Aitken squared, Don Sinclair, recovered his trousers at
Lorne some number, Herman Campbell
of Dartmouth, Forbes of the Marlborough Woods, and Robert .
Robb, who needs no explanation, played the Mount Allison Theologues at
Sackville last week and slew the Philis
of nei is that Guy

  

tor


THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

a

occurrences in the past week were Rev.
D. A. McKinnon got a barrel of apples,
Cliff Grant has a sore throat, Jigger is
sick again, A. B. Simpson was home
for the week end and J. A. Nick. has
started parting his hair again.

Some of our boys have developed
into firm devotees of the Auditorium
and Kitty’s, perhaps the most noted being Bun Barnaby, of the mandolin,
lured there, no doubt, by the insidious
example of Charlie MacIntosh. There
are several more in the making, such
as Kenny Grant, who takes his dancing
lesson as regularly as Yuill takes his
medicine every Saturday night.

University Hall

The third dance of the year has
come and gone, and the last dance was
the best of all. It was a week ago Monday evening, that about fifty couples
tripped the light fantastic amid the dim
religious light.

The dance was in the hands of a
committee composed of Messrs. Somers, Cameron, Graham, McLeod and
Ormond, and it was owing entirely to
this committee that the dance was such
a success. The music was good, the
refreshments superb, and the decorations were of a very attractive nature,
indeed. But what was the most important of all, the guests were the very
best. The boys of the Hall seem to be
able to gather the finest collection of
girls that ever assemble at a Halifax
dance.

At every Hall dance, the scheme of
decoration has been materially
changed. This time the walls were
hung with a few tasteful pictures, and
all the lights were shaded with red
paper. The result was to give the rooms
a subdued, glowing effect. In fact, the
fight was so subdued, that the hall was
wrightest during the moonlight dance,
—the moon coming in from outside,
where it always should come from.

The music, which was supplied by
the Harmonie Orchestra, was very satisfactory. The chaperones were Mrs.
Dr. Stewart and Mrs. ; ,

Other events of the week were the
Law Banquet and Miss Preston’s select theatre-party, which the boys
=, enjoyed. They say

a a meres 7 ajestic
now. e pox seats are n ‘expensive
enough for him. Nothing mean bout
Byron. | A. ©. M.

ACADIA VS. DALHOUSIE.

 

   

at Wolfville on Tuesday,
“debate will probably.

 

The intercollegiate debate takes place |} | .

—_— + ne ee

EN

ENGINEERS’ DANCE

Due to the kindness of several members of the Society, the Enginers were
enabled to hold a party at the Waegwoltic, on the evening of Fri. Mar. 2nd.
With Doug and Pansy as the moving
spirits all went smoothly. Dancing began at 8.30 to music furnished by the
far-famed Kitty Gliska Orchestra.
During intermissions the conservatory
and the various lounge rooms were
much in demand—and some folks simply must sit out an odd dance.

About 10 o’clock a dainty lunch was
served in the dining-room after which
dancing continued until 12.30 o’clock.
Prof. and Mrs. Copp were the chaperones. Disappointment was felt when
Prof. Copp declined to demonstrate the
dance named in his honor. About twenty-five couples were present. |

The Engineers are very grateful to
those classmates whose efforts made the
affair the success that it was.

ae i ee

Profitable
Opportunities

are offered to - day |
24. for investment in
Government and
Municipal __ Bonds, |
yielding a high re- |
turn. The purchase

or sale of such securities can be arranged at any of

our branches.

Our monthly list of

offerings will be
sent on request.

   

    
  
 
  

    
   

oo — a a _ : ~—— ° 
Dalhousie Defeats Kings

By defeating King’s College by a
score of 8-1 at Truro, on the 2nd inst.,
Dalhousie annexed the Championship
of the Kastern Section and is now ready
to meet the University of New Brunswick for the Intercollegiate Hockey
Champinoship of the Maritime Provinces. :

In the first period of the game Kings
got away to a good start when McCoy
secured his own rebound and slapped it
past Melsaac for their one and only tally during the entire game. From then
until the end of the game the ‘‘Duke’’
displayed a knowledge of goai-tending
that wasn’t acquired in any correspondence school. Morrison tied the score
for Dal. when he secured the puck on a
pass from behind the Kings’ net and
shortly after Fluck notched Dal’s
second tally after a beautiful end to end
rush.

In the second period two of the players forgot that there was a puck on the
ice and attempted to play the man but
it got them nowhere and only caused
penalties to be handed out on both sides.
The Dalhousie men semed to be everywhere at once and able to score at will.
Haslam secured two more goals for Dal
in this period and both Morrison and
Fluck scored again.

In the final period Kings put forth
every effort possible to even matters
but they were outplayed at all times
and their attempts at combination were
broken up with little difficulty. In
spite of Smith’s stellar work in the
Kings’ net, Fluck added two more goals
to Dal’s credit in this period making
the total score at the finish 8-1.

The Line-up was as follows :—

Kings—B. Smith, goal; Parnell and
Ernest, defence, MacCoy, G. White and

©. Smith, forwards; Coalman, G. Mor
rison and ©. White, substitutes.

  
   
  
  
 
  

  
    

THE HOME OF

 

‘ , 6.7
=e}, ae eee ci
4
u , i
‘ . = 7 .
4 ss in : r 7a TY : Mount A | t} ]
F == ; ’ _ ; ' = 2 :
i * . i - =
i - i a: == f i O COLL Tf
4 f f a. ill pee eee a ee, > ae yi :
' ie ' vv " 7 ab = = a r 7 et ; ; 7 ; r eS ee 3 a a
i i 1 P* I ii 7 b

 

ee ee eee co - 
"at a conference las

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

os

Dalhousie Wins Hockey Champio

ceitteeeesensee ee nt

 

F luck
and Dunlop, defence; C. Morrison, Haslam and Hickey, forwards; Langwith
and Creighton, substitutes.

Dalhousie—Melsaac, goal;

I. L. B.

Mt. A. Girls Win Basketball
Championship

By defeating the Dalhousie Girls
Basket-ball Team in the Dal gym. on
Saturday, March 3, Mount Allison won
the title of Maritime Intercollegiate
Champions. Both teams showed good
form, and fought hard throughout the
game. In the first period the play was
very even, Mount A, perhaps doing
the score 6-5, in Dal’s favour.

The home team started out with a
rush in the second half, bringing the
score up to 8-5, but was held here for
the rest of the game. Mount A kept up
her play till the end showing good
guarding and combination.

Final seore 12-8,

The game was clean throughout.

‘*Doc’’ Dawson of the Y. M. C. A,,
referred to the satisfaction of both
teams.

Qn their arrival in Halifax the
visitors ‘were entertained at lunth at
the Woman’s Club, after ‘which President MacKenzie very kindly gave them
the freedom of his house. Aster the
game they were tendered a banquet at
The Green Lantern, whence they pro
ceeded to the station ‘‘weary but victorious’’, M. M.

 

ANOTHER HOCKEY PROTEST

Mount Allison University has protested the awarding of the Sumner
trophy to University of New Brunswick.

- H. M. Wood, of Sackville, who has
been well known in hockey circles in the
Maritime Provinces for the past t enty
years, has sent out a questionair to the
various colleges and, is endeavoring to
bring about a settlement of the difficulties. Mr. Wood is chairman of the trustees of the trophy which was donated by
the late Fred R. Sumner, of Moncton,
for competition by U. N. B., Mount A.,
Acadia and King’s Universities. |

Upon a claim that the members of
the western section—U. N. B. Acadia
and Mount A.—of the Maritime Intercollegiate Hockey Teague had agreed
sp that there
ree corner
   
  
  

would be no rat oe of
ed ties in athletic competitions between

    

rt ‘ i Y q* ay?
oA, u* mie" hel

Lad J } # he F in)

oe Pe ae

#:
ab eee haat oe ra

 

ship

Dalhousie 15--Acadia 14

The Dalhousie basketball team defeatéd Acadia’s five in the Dalhousie
gymnasium last Fri. night by the close
score of 15-14. The game was nip and
tuck all the way and provided a thrilling finish. Taking the game all round
it was not a fast exhibition, as the Dal
floor is very large and this slowed the
payers up to some extent. Both teams
went into the game determined to win
and both victors and vanquished gave
the best they had. This Dal win evens
matters with Acadia in the matter of
intercollegiate basketball games for this
season. Good guarding and long shooting featured the game.

The teams:

Dalhousie—Coster, McOdrum, Mader, Muir, Wilson, Miller, Grant.

Acadia—Robinson, Rhodenizer, Wigmore, Chipman, Brown, McCready.
College, the fourth eligible, (which is a
member of the eastern section) for possession of the Sumner trophy. The
matter was thrashed out at a conference
of the colleges recently at Truro, a schedule drawn up for participation by the
three colleges for the play-off and, when
Acadia and Mount A. refused.to play
U. N. B. the later went to Amherst and
defeated King’s College by 7 to 5,

U. N. B. regard themselves as the
the Red and Blacks say that they will
not be robbed of the honors they have
won irrespective of whether the trophy
is finally awarded or not.

‘*Gleaner’’,

Dal II’s took a heavy fall out of the
Law team on Saturday afternoon preliminary to the Girl’s Intercollegiate
Basket Ball game. Score 244. Of

‘‘Larry’’ and ‘‘Clyde Vinecove’’ it can
but be said that ‘‘they did their worst’’.
Hewat starred for the Seconds.

M. McO.

  

Dalhousie Headquarters for
Sportine Goods

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. We can
supply you with everything for Sport
Life. Also Pocket Knives, Razors,
Shaving Supplies.

   

 

 
   
       
      

T *
Seki kt

 

 

  
RAZZBERRIES

Professor MacIntosh (In Geology
class)—‘*Well ! Well ! And Mr. A. D.
MacInnon has the measles. They seem
to have put that on the course at Pine
Hill’’,

 

Binks: Ish thish you?
Jinks: Yesh.
Binks: Thash probly why you look

so much alike.

In Geol. I—Prof. MacIntosh—‘‘ What
must have been nature’s salve ?’’
'  M-s-l-y—‘‘ Zam-Buk’’,

 

Dr. L. ‘‘Coue’’ McPherson recites
fifty times a day the newest formula—
‘‘Day by day in every way I am getting Berter and Berter.’’

 

QUITE SO.

‘*T’ll show you an old, old tintype of
the family,’’ said she coyly, leading me
into the living room.

‘*Ah’’, thought I, ‘‘a sweet old-fashioned maid ! Lovely echo from the romantie past. Her’s should be a background of hollyhocks, Sweet William
and lilaes, with the sweet music of the
minuet soundly faintly in the distance’’.

She led me to the window.

“The the d—— wreck’’, and she
pointed to a flivver at the curb,

DID YOU MISS CANADA?

Although Miss Canada apparently
did not find time to visit the hall of
Dalhousie during her much too brief
stay in the city, it is reported that she

 

- was in communication with V. J. Me
Evoy, Law ’24, Charlie Harrison and
Col. Kennedy of Carleton County. ‘‘ Allie’’ Thom on who met her at the
Arena, sai she was ‘‘some baby’’ and
“The Sheik’’ is reported to have paid
the Auditorium a special visit. Ron.
Forbes says he missed her altogether.

Charlie Jenkins and Fridtjof John
Charles Eugene McRitchie fell hard for
Miss Moncton at the City Hall. —

 
    
    

FALL AND WINTER

SUITS & OVERCOATS
TO MEASURE

Now is the best time to order

      
   
   
        
     
  
 

of Imported and Domestic SuitBlues, Fancy Worsted Tweed.

CLAYTON & SONS

Bapimthon res |

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CANADIANS AT HARVARD

(Continued from page 1)
merly of Acadia, and one of the charter
members of the
Club, read some very interesting and,
as far as Nova Scotia is concerned,
some very gratifying features. There
are, at present, seventy-four Canadians
at Harvard. Of these seventy-four,
twenty-four are from the province by
the sea. Mount Allison University contributes the larger part of these, eight
are from Dalhousie, while Acadia,
Kings and Saint F. X. are represented
in the order named. Among the Dalhousians present from the Massachusetts Tech. were Joe Townshend, ’20,
and A. D. Ross, ’17. Professor Winfield, of St. John’s College, Cambridge,
England, was a guest and spoke briefly
but interestingly to those present.—
C. F. B

'24 TOBOGGAN PARTY

The latest event was a toboggan party and dance. Under the capable management of ‘*Mush’’ Morton, Gertrude
Mills, and Chas. Beckwith the class
turned out to the golf-links about &
o’clock on Thursday evening. For two
hours there was one glorious time. A
few spills occurred but they lent zest
to the sport, and nobody was seriously
injured, though Muriel MacKenzie was
rather shaken up, due to a erash, and
had to leave early. (Of course this
meant that Hazel went too).

About 10 o’clock coasting stopped
and the party repaired to Dr, Morton’s
on Quinpool Road. Here ,the first item
was something to eat—hot beans, coffee
and cake.

Then dancing—with Elsie Campbell
at the piano. Some party! A little
later ice-cream was served, and dancing continued till 12.30 o ‘clock.

’ Class ’24 is very grateful to Dr. and

Mrs. Morton, and also to Mrs. (Dr.)
Gray, for their kindness of the evening.

Thanks is extended to those who
provided the toboggans for the party.

ee

LECTURE BY DR. CAMERON.

Dr. John Cameron delivered an interesting lecture on ‘‘The Races that
Dwell above the Clouds’? before the
Nova Scotia Institute of Science last
week. By special request, this lecture
will be repeated before the Halifax
Dental Society on Friday, March 9.

STUDENT ELECTIONS

 

The interest of the week centred
about the elections of — ee

for the Students’ Council, the
gradua

Harvard Canadian

   
 
 

WALK UPSTAIRS AND
SAVE TEN

STUDENTS

My Spring line of Suits and
‘Overcoats is now complete,
and we invite you to come up
and inspect them.

Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington Street

 

ALLEN'S

| THE LEADING BOOKSTORE

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.

School and College Text
Books, — Supplies of

Commercial and Society Stationery.

| —Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

} 124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.

 

ALPHA, BETA sirscce” oe ea
| 9 Alphabet, but won't you

learn the Alphabet from a music dealer's text book.

It starts like this:—

Amherst Pianos, eae

ianiedes. at, Chatbadete, elton,
EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC.

We also carry a nice line of Pictures—
Harrison Fisher's Maxfield Parrish's, etc.

We Invite You to Join Our Fiction
Lending Society, 2c per day.
J. A. McDONALD PIANO
& MUSIC CO., LTD.

419 Barrington Street, Halifax, N. 8.
Phone Sackville 1200.”

 

 

 

R. J. LEARY
“THE CLEANER
Cor. Argyle and Sackville Sts. —
mesa ot Pose Micka tor ehoes7™t *
i ee ee) Se
oy SS |

 

 

       
 
