 

ence eee eee eee ce eh iain

 

VOLLV.:__ re

The Dalhousie Gazette
9s ROUNDED tes0

196UED WEEKLY i ee Or ON DOLLAR PER YEAR

EDITOR ee - - H: E. READ. B.A,
ASSOCIATE EDITORS :
Miss Juanita O'Connor, B. Comm
Vincent F. Clifford
FACULTY EDITORS
A. B. Morton
W. S. Glichrist
W. G. Sexton

Miss E. I. Macneil
R, F. Ross

 

é 7

W. B. MacOdrum
° . D. BE. Green
J. A. Dunlop, BA.

BUSINESS MANAGER Se aN J. GORDON FOGO
oe 64 kEMAncHANT St., Te. S. 2596 J.

 

  

U0 ee "
ie ta Bs as |
us the 0 ae ory
‘roe

> i

, en 0a vie

ns wai se

i: °

> PD. Hickey 
ae > a | ' a ‘
.*) ae Jivities end. a st
ac san ecugl a oe

ROUNDED 1869
HALIFAX, N, S.,, OCTOBER 31, 1923.

has lost to St. F. X. Unfortunate accidents,
which we hope will not continue, have
recently deprived both teams of some regular
members. Nevertheless the game today will
undoubtedly be keenly contested.

 

ON OUR EXCHANGE SHELF.

Ee

Perhaps the most notable tendency among college publications at ‘present is that of changing
from the magazine to the newspaper form, and
from monthly or quarterly to the weekly. editions.
While this new. form gives a better idea of college activities of the moment-it is generally accom
plished at the expense of literary quality. Instead
bf thoughtful articles written with anxious care for
the tied Rinpancien of literary art are found hurriedly
scribbled Instead ‘of a style attained
by long practice cities anil by following the works of
the great masters the reader notes with some
despair a tendency to the modern newspaper en
sationalism. |
The Argosy Weekly.
The Argosy Weekly which supplants the old

‘Argosy that formerly came to our desk every

month, ot. we are gled to say, retain the literary
touch by the publication now and then of some
thing which is not. “news.” ‘There is a. successful

aie ig ‘to

Te an diterary traditions of

    
  

  

vthe anenet is now

a “re v7 ere college newspaper
ste sateamattieedhe os Dever: we a, Ht ein
ie oobi siuntber ot the 2 Zaverian is iaelone is sur
g matter coneee

   

   

- 7 | , Vv
+

  
     

   

pre tk wy ia ah nt Sia

he wafag
me Ng {iy dic a
af A i 4

 
  

  
  

oy ss tm a"
: an

Beta @ i)

* *
ad
ca mae eats SD
ay . ¥ a fl |

Sa Sere Tata infos

a no las me ks ae

  

perhaps even better for the sta . : "4

 

No. 17

A PROGRESSIVE SCHEME.
Boom to New Students.

  
 
   
   
    
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
  
 

The Committee of Advisers for Students is
a body of exceedingly loose organization,
without rules, regulations, or set times of
meeting. The object of its members is to help —
new-comers to the University to get fitted
into: their environment with the minimum of
discomfort, and to maintain rather closer
relations between students and staff than have
hitherto been possible since Dalhousie grew
to her present size. Its value depends chiefly
upon the students themselves. If they will
form, as some of them are forming, the habit
of dropping in upon their respective advisers
in case of doubt or diffieulty, or occasionally
for a friendly talk, the problems of the committee will solve themselves. Nobody
expects, certainly the students do not expect,
the committee to prevent idle and incompetent students from getting plucked. But
mémbers of the committee can often advise
and not infrequently encourage a ee
or wrong student, This business.of.educa-. —
tion upon which. we are all engaged is a 4
rather important business and not without _ iN
difficulties. The only way we. oan da it

properly is by working it out tected the toh
good for the student to know

     
     
       
 
    
      
   

    
 

   

    
   

 
 

student. Hence the institution.
mittee and the advantage tha /
believe is accruing to both ° | |
interesting to note that erauisicilead trom!
a similar system this year; a fi the. Dive:
known to no one at Dalhousi
committee was inaugurated. —W. S. a,’ ‘e
Soon, and perhaps beter += Se ae
pears a list _of students wy he

     
 
   
 
  
  
    

 
 
  

 

_ ‘pote
Aa,
va nm ie - Paap y tt or , wt
me
 

Fe rts a el anaes a : _ a . . “o> ear . ,
oe oo LST SE RE ae ES RE i Oe tee ee eee

‘Se eee

 

 

2 °

7 0° GF rere EaQ FTF Tee . = RE
ids t AB I Pre PO ane ey
- } ‘ k

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

DALHOUSIE DOINGS
AT HARVARD.

Editor of the Dalhousie Gazette,

Sir,

It was with mingled feelings of interest
and chagrin, that we read the excellent first
number of your paper which arrived a few
days ago. Our interest is ever in all things
Dalhousie. Our chargrin is due to the apparent oversight in your editorial board, in that
while alloting one Overseas correspondent to
‘*the Dalhousians at Oxford’’ you entirely
overlooked those of us who are exiles in a
dry land. Cannot this be rectified?

With your permission we would like to
give a few impressions of Harvard and of
Dalhousians we have met since coming here.

John Albert Bentley, dean of them all.
The aged Anchises of the Exiles who has led
numerous Odesseys around the museums and
cultural centres of which Boston abounds,—
including the upper seats of the synagogues
of the ungodly. Intellectually he is passing
into the realms of the chosen, having
thoroughly digested all the works of John
Ruskin, as a preliminary to his great contribution to English Literature, ‘‘ Ruskin As
A Literary Critic.’’ John’s only dissipations
are cafeteria hard cider and Symphony
concerts.

James A. Maxwell apparently has all his
time completely divided between his preparations for his Final Exams to be written soon,
and Mrs. Maxwell. Knowing Jimmie of old
we have hopes for better things in the near
future. We believe that Art (Dr.) Dawson
has taken up his residence in the Zoological
mneanm hnt has only been seen onee, Either

‘Mrs. Dawson’’ requires a great

‘ion. |
the ‘‘Freshmen,’’ foremost
are Larry Mackenzie and Colin
.s. Larry is sleepier than ever.
reports that he falls asleep not
fternoon but soon after he gets
ning. He is to be seen, when
girl, standing in a dazed concafeteria bulletin, or with an
Roman Law over which he is
ig off to sleep. He already
h socials where the girls-are
he food plentiful, and has
e girl in the College Chapel
has been to N. Y. onee and
s week provided he can see
ollies in time first. He
ime-on the river and says

tiful.

ig the muses Collie is on the
e female, and has collected
.ber of new friends that he
this week to let them fight
wing to be a great favorite
_at Harvard which figured
in the news last year.

 

v

company of Larry Mackenzie. (see above.)
Donald Forsyth is studying tennis and
economics. Incidentally he knows more about
the latter than about the former. Although
he is taking a course in economies he has the

biggest bills at the cafeteria gof the whole |

group. Strangers who have been lost in
Boston will appreciate his constant refusal to
enter any other subway station than Park
Street Under which will take him direetly
home,

Doug Highet’s hair is still red despite the
fact he refuses-to pay attention to anyone but
his exacting mistress, higher mathematies. He
oecassionally displays a weakness for revues
and colored shows but that is probably due
to the influence of the cafeteria hard cider
occasionally imbibed on the recommendation
of John Bentley.

Forrester Davison, despite the fact of a very
(lesirable room next to Larry Mackenzie, is
seriously contemplating renting the Cambridge-Boston Subway, in which he oceasionally spends the greater part of the night
returning home, He may not look it but he
already knows more girls in Boston than all
the other Dalhousians put together, and is
also quoted as an authority on all the leading
shows on the continent. His spare time is
given to the interesting dissipation of Roman
l.aw and Jurisprudence in the original texts,
having already ordered an rere neee
one from Paris.

John Craigie who belonged to Class 17 for
at least one week, spends more time doing than
in talking. He must be efficient for he conduets with great suecess a church parade of
the most questionable of the characters
mentioned above.

- Phoebe Christianson has been seen at the .

football matches in which she appears deeply
interested. Of course she is not alone.—
There were fifty thousand others there last
Saturday.

Bill MeInnes President Elect of the
Engineering Society of Dalhousie, accompanied us to the football match last week, but

disappeared among the fifty thousand rooters

and hasn’t been seen since. He is probably
estimating the eubie contents of the Harvard
Stadium for M. I. T. at which he is a student.

Willard Thompson who graduated in
Medicine here last year also attends all the
football matches, He is kept busy looking

ifter Doug and other ‘‘Students’’ at Harvard. ||
Mac Macaulay, Milne Blanchard, Lorne —

Pentz, and Dr. Jessie MacLeod are all in
Greater Boston.
We now think we have reveled sufin

incriminating details about

 
 

PERSONALS

John Dunlop, B.A., a Rhodes scholar from
Dalhousie, has arrived in England after
spending the summer in Canada.

Harriet Elliot, Arts ’25, had a very painful, though fortunately not serious motor
accident this summer, when on her way to the
pienie grounds at Berwick.

Arthur W. Rogers, B.A., LL.B., of the ’21
Class in Law, has recently been appointed
Legal Secretary to the Attorney General for
Ontario.

George C. Nowlan, B.A., LL.B., of the ’22
Class in Law, was married on July 18th at
the Baptist Church at Wolfville, N.S., to Miss
Miriam Chisholm, B.A.

R. D. Mitton, B.A., LL.B., Law ’21, has
opened a law office in Moncton, N.B. R. M.
Palmer, B.A., LL.B., Law ’22, has his office
in the same building.

Olive Atlee, Arts ’23. is teaching at a girls’
school in New York. |

Dr. Ira Pidgeon, Medicine ’23, is on the
staff of the Beverley Hills Hospital, near Boston, Mass.

Dal friends are glad to hear that Kenny
Beaton has won a place on the MeGill football team.

‘ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.

Misses K. Foster, Winnifred M. Webster;
Doctors E. Pearl Hopgood, E. C. Davis;
Messrs. Murray B. Emeneau, Clarence Morriyon, C. V. Harris, Ronald Fielding, L. A.
Munro, J. W. Weldon, M. W. Ross, D. A.
Murray, John Fleming, P. M. Cassidy, L.
Sterns and W. H. Forsythe.

The Gift House
of the Maritimes

BIRKS, HALIFAX, is a
branch of the large jewellery
‘organization having their
headquarters in Montreal and _
other branches at Ottawa,
“Winnipeg, Calgary and Vancouver. Itis ever by mer ‘
same policies.
|

 

  

 

GYM FOR GIRLS.

The girls’ gymnasium classes started this
week under the direction of Mr. Stirling.
There are five different branches of the girls’
gymnastic work, so there is an opportunity
for each girl to take at least one class. The
hours are as follows :— '

Badminton—Monday, 8.30—9. 30.

Friday, 2.30—3.30.

Volley ball—Monday, 8.30—9.30.

Friday, 2.30—3.30.
Fencing— Monday, 7.30—8.30.

Basketball—. Thursday, 7.30—8.30.

" Another period to be decided
later.

General Gym. class—Thursday, 8.30—9.30.

Although the classes start this week, it is
not too late to enter, so if you are interested,
see Anna Grant, the D.G.A.C. Secretary.

—KE. M.

The Puzzled Freshette.

Scene: A corridor in Shirreff Hall.

Time: Any afternoon.

An odour of toast assails the air. <A
Senior approaches, walking rapidly. A hungry Freshette appears.

Freshette (noticing toasty odour, and becoming very attentive): ‘‘O Senior, why
ave you in haste? Could I not relieve you of
your burden?’’ .

Senior pays no attention, but as second
Senior looms in sight she says: ‘‘It is on
this floor, I’m sure.’’

A third Senior appears, and the three converse in low tones. The odour of toast grows
stronger. Freshette notices this and resumes
her attentions. Seniors try every door in the
corridor. No luck.

Freshette is puzzled. She slinks away,
evestfallen, and, in the privacy of her room,
eats her only remaining apple. Who owns the
toast ?

 

—SvureE LOCKET.

The Wanderers believe a Slip(p)’ on somebody’s side may be an advantage after all!

Always put off tonight what you are going
to ee oe the morning.

 

~

 

nnd oe Satu goin’ to Montreal?” |

 

  
 
 

n r ee eS tat die a] fel T . pie i a ae — mitre ti

es 3 om Pes la “

 

= si a A. <td ohh
Dy ® \ p ' 1 7e
t Y uy oe he 1)

  

” i} ‘ ; * t y 4 ne

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
Dentistry ’23

The members of Class °23, the largest
graduating class up to the present time, are
separated by ‘‘Mount and Stream and Sea.’’

Harold Heal, affectionately known as ‘‘ Old
Dear,’’ is at present in Raymond, Alberta.
The West has also attracted Stan McDonald,
who left here in September intending to
Joeate ith Saskatoon.

Milne Blanchard, probably the best known
man at Dalhousie (among the fair sex) is at
the Forsythe Institute, Boston.

It is to be hoped that the old adage regard
 

ing the honor of a prophet in his own coun
iry will not hold true in the eases of Frank
Hogan and ‘‘Sid’’ Florian, as they have
opened up in their respective home towns of
St. John’s, Nfld., and Sydney, N. 8.

Stephen (Duke) Melsaac, the former
‘‘stonewall’’ of the Dalhousie hockey nets,
has the distinction of practising in the largest town in Canada, namely, Glace Bay.

Cyril Dooley’s shingle braves the breeze at
Whitnep Pier; Michael Morrison’s at Canso
and Lionel Roop’s at Bear River. Hantsport has claimed Johnston McLellan and New
Glasgow Karl Johnson.

‘*Vie’’ Calkin’s office is at Pugwash and
Merrill Clay’s is at Digby. Clay will be remembered as the . Forrest building ‘‘golf
(African) championship’’ and manager of
last year’s basketball team.

- Hazlett Crosby and Bruce Climo, the latter last year’s gold medallist, have gone into
partnership and are practising in this city.

Leon ‘‘Troy’’ Fluck is also working with
lis father in this city. His place in athletics
at Dal was a big one.

Fortunate indeed is the town of New Germany to have attracted Hazel Thompson,
who always took an active interest in the
Dental Society doings, and was one of its
most popular members.

While the seribe is neither a weather pro
phet nor the son of a sea cook, he ventures

to predict that Class '23 will make itself felt

- wherever there are teeth and that they will

bring much eredit to their Alma Mater.
ts oi” ‘ X-Ray. ’”)

FRESHIE-SOPH DANCE
At b See Tonight, Oct, 31.

   
  
 

 

——- ee ee ee

Te. 2 Scotts Ltd.
_ 30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Headquarters for Dal. Boys
A eplendid stock of furnishisfgs of all

|
|
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and |
‘Caps seeder Raineoats and Suit |

Le ey ee eT I a ee A

 

THE LAWYER'S BRIEF

Charlie Beazley, Law ’23, manager of the
Dalhousie hockey team for last year, is associated with the firm of Maclean, Burchell &
Ralston, Halifax.

Sidney Zinek, Law ’23, a former Editor of
the Dalhousie Gazette,. has returned .from
Calgary, Alberta, where he spent the past
year, and is now practising Law with Daly,
Walker, Phinney & Vair, barristers, Halifax.

C. V. Harris, Arts ’21, Law ’23, is prineipal of the High School at Liverpool, N. S.

Hugh (Ike) Ferguson, Law ’23, is associated with his father W. M. Ferguson, barrister, Truro, N. S.

R. A. MacLeod, 8. M., Law
ing in the city.
office in the County Court House, Spring Garden Road.

George Nowlan, Law ’22, who is now praetising in Wolfville, was a recent visitor at the
Law School.

Roy MacNutt, Law ’21, has resumed his
practice in Truro after spending the summer
with Mrs. MacNutt in England, France and
Belgium.

George Ross, Law ’23, is now associated
with the Eastern Securities this city.

Fred Jones, Law ’22, winner of the I. O.
D. E. Overseas Scholarship for that year, has
returned from England where he spent the
past year attending the University of Cambridge, and is now associated with the Eastern
Trust Company, this city.

 

'23, is practis
—I. L. B.

McGill Professor to Lecture Meds.

 

First year Medicine have elected the following class officers:

President—Max MacBride.

Vice-President—Miss Whittier.

Secretary—Harry Langwith.

Treasurer—Charles Jenkins.

Professor Cassidy has been secured from.

MeGill University to lecture iti the er

ment of Physiology.
—W. 8. G.

Professor in Biology I—What is a cell ?

Freshette—A cell is a unit of potassium.

Prof—!?! Oh, well, much must be
excused to one under the green banner,

et

He may be found at his old.

 

&)
tas

 

 

 

 

 
  
    
  

 

 

 

PRINTING . . .

       
  
      
    
 

     

 

SCENE I.
THE DEN OF THE LIZARDS.

Enter Marsden, a Lizard (throwing down books).

Mars. Times and the community are rampant
With distress. Nor brew? Nor tobacco?

Not a suck, sir.
Nor the remainder of a single can
Left by our wizened sweeper on his rounds.

Mars. Why, then, I’ll smoke my own.
Know you the day is late, and we are bent
To merrymake at Conrad Carleton’s.

ALLANDALE (A lounge lizard).
Mean you a dalliance with trite college maids?
A highfalutin manner to express
A simple phrase: I deem they are too slow.

Liz. Why this is wondrous talk!

| Mars. Be yourself.
What kind of language does she feed thee with?

ALL. Credit me, gentlemen, you’ll know my drift.
I care not for these maids of high intent;
these charmers of the dry immortal lore; these
syntax-loving marigolds. I’ve lost my zest
for this aspiring brood, cloistered up
with Logic, and ‘‘Why I Came to College.’’

Liz, Is this possible!
Call our physician, I'm sure the fellow’s tainted.

 

Aut _— Barbara Celarent Darii Ferioque prioris,
With such preamble are you often smit
On moonlit nights, when one would talk of love.
Or ’mongst the idlers in some bright cafe
You brook her glacial posture with’a sigh.
Tremendously your eredit she consumes
Expounding Cicero the while, as if —
He were some penny-ante harlequin
Late from the shows. ‘

Liz, Its here, O King, a dangerous spirit.
What would you? Go you not at all tonight?

oe On with the dance, my friends, ’tis profitable.
These girls can chant you Vergil with their eyes;
Or more—it hath been done—too rare I trow;
Dry learning hath been gathered from a kiss

 

As chaste as ice. wy
Mars. You displease us.
| You are too bold—
"ey " No, sir, I am too tame.
; [Locking without.)

Soft, sirs! By inighty Jove, but. Jouk @ihout
And see a Trojan Helen passes by.

Ig. Whoe'er she be, I’m sure ahe's not aloot;

e

   

For see what converse intimate she holds
With you bass denisen who stands anear.

| Now, here’s your chance,
I think you'd best accost this maiden fair:
earns nee ee

‘see * ge

 

 

Liz.
Mars.

EE

FE

CICE.

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

The Dangerous Spirit

After the Manner of Christopher Marlowe.

 

He dares not stand the shock.
Peace! Time will discover.

[ Exeunt]

SCENE II.
Time. RatuHer Lars.
Enter two Lizards [sounds of revelry from within].
So Allandale has brought his floozie here.

Ha! Ha! I wonder at it.
Her form’s superb, she shakes a sheiky step;
What more can man desire?

Enter Allandale.

Now does my project gather to a head.
Think on it well, my friends; whate’er may come,
My Trojan Helen hath outshone them all.

Without saying a word.

Well spoke.
She needeth not to talk of Cicero,
Her pretty bobbed head ne’er heard such tales.
I wonder where she is,

Enter Cicely the Girl.

She’s looking black as a whole vexed ocean.
How now, my Cicely.

Ah, here thou art, thou most ungracious wretch,
That leavest me in yon proud quality
To be a pattern for contempt and scorn.

What meanest you? that ruffled countenance
Doth ill consort where beauty’s wont to dwell.

Your admiration, sir, does savour such
As this whole hatched-up prank. I’ll trouble you:
I have my wraps, conduct me from this place,

Upon my life, a maid’s her own support
‘When she’s a shrew. I think you’d better go.

Fie on you! Follow me not. Exit.
Alarum. Enter Collegians, Lizards,
1 Ee TS Se ee See

     
   

' ™ s /
; aaa et ree
a a“ ool ‘ —_ Ts ‘
Tt ' a
=e ee te ae SS , %
oi a he ay te! i ; =
yee {
: ‘ Ce: 1 tha i ;
3 4 _ e et, nea oe a he F .
‘ > ; - 7 en ist) Ni “gk be 4 rer = t Tip t
iF i f n i = ? rf
' “ Wee es oe oo i
: Ae F === Byes 7
. 46 a i ”

   

‘Until a late bird gave a low, sweet call,

a ee ae A eT
et 4 Lae 7 '


Webster’s Column

The value of literary parody is two fold,
—First it requires a foundation of appreciattion and complete study of the subject and
secondly it is an excellent medium for self
expression.

One of the professors, to whom most of
these remarks are due, speaking for literary
expression, said it was not so much that the
students could not write but they had nothing
to write about. There lies the value of
parody—an unlimited field for the exercise
of imagination with a choice of subjects as
varied,

Further, the parody has often been a keen
instrument of criticism.In no other way can
the faults or virtues of a writer be made to
stand out more clearly and in some cases
more cruelly. It is still used by some of the
best authors of our time. The old Country
universities are especially fond of this mode
of expression and in the last exchanges we
noticed several excellent parodies.

A good parody is not a mere imitation;
there is every opportunity for originality. It
is also to be distinguished from cheap comic
parody. Our professor summed it up very
nicely. When asked, ‘‘What is the value of
literary parody?’’ he replied, ‘‘Great, if it is
literary.’’ :

 

 

OCTOBER.

A morning dawned and sunlight flowed
through mist,
All golden, languidly, the earth it kissed—

All golden, silently, the beech trees stood.

Though not one crimson-cloaked maple
moved—

Triumphant, held they glowing arms out wide

To snatch sweet Summer ere she stepped
aside,

To feel once more her fragrant, sensuous
breath.

The little insects could not think of Death;

It was their golden hour. Soft, sleepy song

Filled sunny nooks with comfort all day. long.

A spell of silence held the sea in thiall

RR ee aes ee RR ey
‘ + ve ** wT

 

TEE POC Pere

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SIR ROGER DE COVERLEY AND MR.
SPECTATOR AT A FIELD HOCKEY MATCH.

The day was damp and foggy, but Sir Roger and
I, having arrived in the modern world only the
night before, decided to take a walk. As we passed a group of girls dressed ‘in extraordinary
costumes, we heard one say to another, “Even if
it is wet, we’re going to play, so you’ll try to get
the pads, won’t you? We need them for our backs.”
Sir Roger was most interested, and he wanted to
follow them, in order to ascertain the nature of
this extraordinary game which required pads for
backs. I remarked that it was probably a kind of
leap frog, played with the feet instead of hands.

We walked on, and when we arrived at what
seemed to be the scene of action, we seated ourselves upon a stand with some boys and girls who
were wearing their colors, which were black and
gold. Sir Roger began to converse with a friendly
looking student, who informed us that this was a
field hockey match between Delta Gamma, the
sorority of Dalhousie and Kings’ College, and the
Halifax Ladies’ College. This was the first match
that Delta Gamma had ever played, the game
having been introduced at Dalhousie only this
year.

The first half seemed rather one sided, the H. L.
C. girls keeping the ball in their opponent’s end
of the field most of the time, and scoring three
goals.

The second half was very evenly contested. The
Della Gamma girls seemed to be getting more
used to their positions and opponents, and the ball
was_down near the H. L. C. goal for a large part
of the time. At the beginning of this half it began to rain. Much to our surprise about half the
male spectators arose and ran for shelter, but the
feminine fans stayed and cheered their team. In
this half Delta Gamma scored three goals and the
H. L. C. scored two, making the score five to
three, in favor of the Halifax Ladies’ College.

I do not know very much about the game myself, so I cannot criti¢ize the players, but I shall
quote part of the account which I read in the
newspaper the next day.

“The H. L .C. had better combination and were
more clever at stick work than their opponents.
They hit the ball harder and kept in their positions,
showing that they had had more training and

The College Girl
Likes A Hat

that combines style, quality, modesty
and economy. Call and see our smart
‘TDal’’ shapes.

Turner’s Millinery
96 Gottingen St.

BELT LINE CAR

   

    

        
       
      
   

    

    
       
       
   
  
  
   

   
  
  
   

    
        
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
‘POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also et, and College Text

Commercial and Society Stationery.

| oe Fountain Pens— |

>
e
= Z
Y)

  

 

Pine Hill Post

This week Pine Hill is almost submerged
by an engulfing wave of Theology. Among
the first arrivals are ‘‘Mac’’ MacDonald,
coach of last year’s debating team, Jack
Nicholson, who last summer, was a veritable
Calvin among the Cape Breton Hills and W.
M. Byers.

With impressive ceremonies a new society
has been duly and carefully inaugrated—T he
Bachelor’s Club, with Herb Davidson, Dune.
MaeMillan, Don Gordon and ‘‘R, C. R.”’ as
the dominating influences. Pine Hill asks
the question ‘‘Is the name merely a guise?’’
Certainly that quartette need no protection
against feminine darts.

Dave Johnstone has succeeded in bringing
Euclid up to date with the proposition ‘‘ You
cannot put a square meal in a_ round
stomach,”’

As a result of a collosal struggle with the
railroad Gordon Dawson has become a rather
serious casualty. Everyone is glad to get
back to Pine Hill at meal times but Gordon’s
haste is one that passeth understanding.

P. H. was surprised and verily grieved
when last night two of the most eminently
respectable of her inmates R. C. Robb and
Archy McKinnon, were held  facinated
by ‘‘Pink Un’’ the London Sporting Weekly.
Surely' Engilsh I has not perished !

From his hours of arrival and departure it
is concluded that Rod MacLean has secured a
night-watchman’s job.

Rod Kerr of the Law School was visiting
his old haunts (not Pine Hill but adjacent
territory) Sunday.

Cliff Grant reports a most remarkable
dream—one in which seventy screaming,
snarling, scratching cats made a concentrat
 

ed attack on him.. Some of the more callous

of our number recall such ‘‘imaginings’’ in
happier and moister days. ;

Through these columns Pine Hill lays bare
its soul. How about reciprocating, Shirreff
Hall?

BANANAS

1 How we wished ‘‘Skipper’’ Morrison, C.
J. was in the chair Thursday night.

2 What.did Jardine mean when he said

he’d like to live at Shirreff Hall? es

8 Why is Sam Proffit so anxious to sell —

tickets for the Freshy-Soph?

4 Is not Rod MacLeod a little too fond of
lingering along Tower Road?

5 As Johnson Chew used to say, Dunphy
must have been apretty boy when he was a

baby.
—Tabellarins.

 

ractice than the Delta Gamma girls, who had

ttle os never ha See, tenn bad

team before.
several experienced players who had played
sem sie pinged nck betee Siem 7

  
 

+. he an De = Oring ‘
Pig i yyt
ae haa ees *
4 ahs

  
   

aa
>a
ao

No Score in Dal-
St. F. X. Game.

The Dalhousie, St. F. X. Intercollegiate
Rugby Football game, played on the Dal
campus last Wednesday afternoon resulted in
a draw with neither team registering a score.
Ja Munro Day was a holiday for the students
and despite the rain which fell continuously
during the game several hundred spectators
sat through a dull contest.

The field was in a muddy condition and the
ball very slippery to handle, making a good
display of football difficult. But even considering this the brand of ball displayed was

 

ee oe

far below the standard. Neither team
showed form. The ball was pushed, rolled
and fumbled during the game, and many

times the players were ‘‘all in a muddle,’’
No system prevailed.

At the start of the game Dalhousie
advanced into the Saints territory, and held
the play on their twenty yard line. Currie
relieved for St. F. X. and they worked their
way up the field by dribbling. The pigskin was not carried far, as it was almost
impossible to catch a pass from another
player.
| The Tigers had the better of the play in the
! first half and threatened to score on several
| oecassions, In the second period, however,
they were completely outplayed. The Saints
{ controlled the ball almost continuously and
held Dalhousie on their five yard line for
from ten to fifteen minutes. They lost
several chances to score by fumbling, and
because Dalhousie smothered the ball in the

 

scrim. The situation was relieved at last by
af a kick from safety and play reached centre
My field when the whistle blew for the end of a

listless game.

Owing to Intercollegiate rules Dalhousie
lost several men from the first team squad,
end the new players had not sufficient
a practice with the rest of the team. Fraser
i) | played a great game for the Tigers, saving
‘| the game on several occasions. ‘‘Red’’
ie) Sutherland, Logan and Langwith also played
it | a hard game. Currie of the St. F. X. made

f

*

some good kicks and Murphy was the best of
the others. St. F. X. leaves Halifax with a
decision over the Tech team and a draw with
Dalhousie. Both their games were played

under disagreeable conditions.

     
     
       

al

b UNGAR’S..

: How often a perfectly good garment
ft is disearded because it is soiled and
ee stained. That is because its owner
4 {| does not realize our wonderful
fe __ process of French ~ Dry-Cleaning,
' which restores old clothes, and makes
them look like new.
Why not try us?

    

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

wee F

=\=S-y~se Pe sae Serr reg
ee YF Tt jee

PII eh

 

The line up :—

Dalhousie—Forwards, McLean, McCurdy,
Logan, Hebb, Sutherland, D. R., Sutherland,
G. M. Baird; halves, MaclInnes, Tupper,
MeOdrum, Macdonald; quarters, MeQuarrie,
Clouston, Langwith; full-back, Fraser.

Si. F. X.—Forwards, J. Cameron, MeNeil,
R. S. Maedonald, Sandy Maedonald, Flaherty,
Dalton, Chisholm; halves, Murphy, Powers,
S. Melsaae, L. Maedonald; quarters, Sutherland, V. Maynes, McEachern; full back, Currie (Capt.)

Referee—Haines.

 

Dentistry Defeated Arts 17—3.

 

The Dentals made a clean sweep of the
Arts football team in the first game in the
Interfaculty football league which took place
immediately before the St. F, X.—Dal game
on Wednesday, Munro Day.

The field was in poor condition and the
ball became wet and slippery. Nevertheless a
fairly good game was played. The Dentals
produced a real championship team which
worked well togther. The scrim heeled the
ball out well and the half line made some
pretty runs. The Molars managed to cross
the Arts line for five touches while the
scholars only came through with one .touch.
Alan Dunlop converted one try of the
game after the last .touch. Mont Haslam
acted capably as referee.

The line up :—

Dentistry—Dunlop, Mutch, Turnbull, D. L.

Macdonald, Johnston, Dobson, Clifford,
Shaffner, Lavers, Nicholson, McQuarrie,
Sutherland, Trainor, Kaulbach, Koenig,
Harlow.

“THE MAID AND THE MIDDY”

Rehearsals for the Operetta “The Maid and the
Middy” are now in full swing. Though most of the
cast and chorus have been chosen, there is still a
gap in the line-up of tenors.

The following yarn is told of Mark Twain:

He had been to a very fashionable dinner and.

meeting a lady of his acquaintance next day
he was asked, ‘‘Oh! Mr. Clemens, do tell me
what kind of gowns the women wore.’’ ‘‘To
tell the honest truth, madam,’’ said Mark,
‘‘T ean’t tell you, I forgot to look under the

table, ’’

Bob Johnson's
Two Barber Shops

FIRST CLASS SERVICE

——

    
     
     
  

  
  

MAJESTIC THEATRE BUILDING AND
COR. GEORGE AND BARRINGTON STS.

Three New Records.

Dalhousie athletes broke three of the Interfaculty records, at the field day sports held
Wednesday morning, Munro day, on the eollege campus.

A large number of men took part in the
sports while a few hundred students _.wituessed the events. Despite the fact that the
competitors had had only a week’s training
the results produced were in some cases remarkable.

This is the first field day Dal has had for
several years and it shows conclusively that
with a little training under a competent instructor, such as Dalhousie has, a very formidable track team could be produced. ‘he
records broken have stood for many years

 

and it shows that some of the newcomers are —

even better than the already well known
athletes of Dalhousie.

The running broad jump record, held by
Dr. Carney since 1901 at a distance of nineteen feet eight inches, was broken by Sperry
of the Arts Faculty with a jump of twentyone feet, one and a half inches, The pole
vault record of eight feet eight inches, held
by W. C. Ross since 1908, was shattered by
G. Smith, Medical Faculty, with a vault of
nine feet four inches. The record for kicking the football, which has stood since 1902
opposite the name of G. O. Cheese with a
clistance of one hundred and thirty-three feet,
was broken by Murray Logan of the Dental
Faculty, who kicked the ball a distance of one
hundred and fifty-eight feet.

Keen competition was shown in all of the
other events,

Summary :

100 yards—Ist Chipman, 2nd Redmniond,
drd Pushie; time 11 seconds.

880 yards—Ist D. L. Macdonald, 2nd Turnbull, 3rd Dunlop; time 2 min. 21 see.

One mile run—lst Jakeman, 2nd Proffit,
3rd Kirn; time 5 min, 19 see.

220 yds—Ist Redmond, 2nd D. Macdonald,
3rd Miller; time 25 4-5 sec.

Relay en 7 by Dentistry team, consisting of Macdonald, Dunlop, Turnbull and
Mutch; time 1 min. 47 sec. The distance was
a half mile, each man running 220 yards.

One mile walk—Ist Murray Logan, 2nd
Atwood; time 9 min. 30 see,

440 yards—lst Clouston,
3rd Jardin; time 1 min. 5 3-5 see.

Pole Vault—1st G. Smith, 2nd Turnbull,
3rd MeEtcheon; height 9 feet 4 inches.

Shot Put—ist Livingstone, 2nd Dunlop,
3rd McLean; distance 33 feet 9 inches.

Livingstone threw 34 feet 10 inches in an
exhibition throw.

Running broad jump—ist Sperry, 2nd I.

Macdonald, 3rd Jakeman; distance 21 feet
11-2. inches.

 

Hop, step and jump—list I. Maedonald,

| nd Fultz, 3rd Smith; distance 37 feet 4 in.

Per
ee

‘down for the greater part of the game.
obtained the ball from the serim twice to the

2nd Chipman ; ‘¥

 

 

The Dalhousie Tigers, making a_ strong
comeback after their defeat of last week, outplayed the Wanderers and administered a six
to nothing defeat on the Wanderers Campus
on Saturday afternoon.

Despite the biting wind which swept across
the field, over two thousand spectators witnessed a hard fought battle between the two
old rivals.

The Tigers played hard and held the Reds
They

Wanderers once and were thus able to feed
their halves who were not slow in accepting
the opportunity

The first period was not a productive of good
football, but as the game progressed, things
beeame more interesting, and play became
livelier. The Tiger forwards followed up on
the ball as they did in the first game of the
season and prevented the Reds from kicking
for gains, on many occasions.
ended with no score.

At the opening of the second period the
Wanderers started off well, but were soon
sent back to their own territory when Haslam

From Six to Sixty,--- |

the boys who thrill with desire for
greater athletic accomplishment are the
oo who pick

 
    
 

et. -_ ae mat , a ite Me we, mo es

The first half

DALHOUSIE CHAMPION FOOTBALL TEAM
FRONT ROW, sitting,— —“Kelly” McLean, Jones, Fraser, McOdrum. BACK ROW,—C. R. Chipman, Coach; Haslam, (Capt.); Bates, Britton, (injured and
replaced by Baird). Slipp, Langwith, ‘Livingstone, Clouston, D. Sutherland, Logan, Macdonald, Moore.

DALHOUSIE 6, WANDERERS 0.

aie a long me Once the Tigers got into
‘*Redland’’ they stayed and pressed hard for
a score. Clouston was blocking well and
Langwith and Bates were getting in some nice
runs.

After a scrim on the Wanderers twenty
yard line, Dal halves got the ball and Langwith passed. to Maedonald after a good run.
Nothing could stop ‘‘Frenchie’’ and he
erossed the Red’s line near the corner flag
for the first try of the game.

From then on the Tigers had the better of
the play. Only on a few occasions did the
Wanderers threaten the line, and _ then
‘*Rusty’’ Fraser proved himself a veritable
stonewall, and punted for long gains.

The Collegians kept the play a few yards
from the Wanderers’ line for some time until
« loose ball from the scrim was kicked ahead
by Slipp. The Dal team followed up and
one of them picked up the leather and passed
to Baird who plunged over the Wanderers’
line for the second and last try of the game.
Both trys were were on the far corner of the
field and neither were converted.

The Victors were carried off the field by
their admiring supporters. Later it was
discovered that several players had suffered

 
 
 
  
   
    
  
   
     
 
   
  
  
    

  

THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC GOODS
Including Spalding’s

Famous Goods.

Football and Track Outfits.

Here you will find men of
your own age and interests
to serve you with things you
want at prices you can pay.

The Dalton-Taylor Co
Li cl

   
       

    
  
 
 

——

F i d.

seitdansel | injuries, The most serious eustalnn
ed was that of Don Clouston who had his nose
broken in three places. Livingstone had his
finger broken, and B. MeCoy of the Wanderers had his neck strained. All of these
men had continued to play the game despite
their injuries.

Everybody played so well that it would
hardly be fair to attempt to pick out,‘‘stars.’’
Both teams worked hard and deserve lots
of credit. Referee J. W. Allen handled the
game very satisfactorily.

It was throughout a Dalhousie day as the
Tiger Intermediates defeated the Reds by a
six to nothing seore and tied for first place
in the Intermediate League.

The line up:

Dalhousie — Forwards, Logan. MeLean,
Jones, Baird, Livingstone, Sutherland, Moore,
halves, Haslam (Capt.), Langwith, Mae
donald, MeOdrum; quarters, Bates, Slipp,
Clouston; full-back, Fraser.
Wanderers — Forwards, Young, Hart,
Studd, Stech, Colwell, Mitchell, Schartz;
halves, Lilly, Arthur, MeLeod, Seriven;
quarters, R. MeCoy, (Capt) W. MeCoy,

Ellis, full-back, Edwards.

Finest Materials, Lining and

 

 

Trimmings with best workman
  
  
 
 
  
   

  
 

Kliff's Krazy Kuts

A man I knew kicked up a row
That stirred the neighbors’ wrath.
He walked up to a lady cow,
And slyly pinched her calf.
—Spark Plug.’’
Ist C-ed (at track meet)—I wonder if this
is the first or second heat?
2nd Co-ed—There doesn’t seem to be any
sign of heat yet.

 

 

Prof. to Freshie in Lab.:
oxide.’’

Freshie: Leather.

Prof.—What! Leather an oxide?’’

Freshie—Yes, an oxide of beef.

Mention an

 

Cape Breton, inquiring of stranger—What
port do you hail from?
Stranger—I’m from P. E. I.

C. Br.—O well, ‘‘A man’s a man for a’,

that.’’

 

Who was the freshman that thought ‘‘the
sweet things from Shirreff Hall’’ were jars of
marmalade ?

 

Prof. Smith—'‘What meaning would you
take from that statement, Mr. McK.?’’

McK., Law '24—‘‘The literal meaning of
course, sir.’’

Prof. Smith—‘‘ Well, what is the literal

meaning of it?’’
R-e—'‘T don’t know, sir!”’

ROBINSON’S
Coast to Coast Clothiers

make a specialty of catering to Students
from Halifax to Vancouver. Now show
ing high grade productions in
WINTER OVERCOATS & SUITS
| Suits $17.50 to $39.00

| Walk up Stairs and Save $10.

| ROBINSON'S LTD.

444 BARRINGTON ST.

  
 

  
 

A. & W. MACKINLAY LTD;
STATIONERS

Era

 
 
  
  
   
  

THE DA K JOUSIE G. GAZETTE

 

DALHO OI USIE MOOT COURT.

Ina onde ‘oom filled with spectators from
the various fa@nlties of the University, the
first case before the Dalhousie Moot Court
was heard last Tuesday afternoon, their
‘“‘Lordships’’ Ohief Justice McKenna, Mr.
Justice Graham and Mr. Justice Colquhoun
presiding.

The case was an appeal from the judgment
of Judge D’Avray West. Of counsel for the
appellant were G; Bethune, K.C., and F. Bissett; for the respondent, G. Morrison, K. C.,
and A. MacDonald.

On account ofthe number of spectators
unlearned in cougt rules and procedure his
Lordship the Chief Justice found it necessary
to pass severe. Gfiticism on the temporary
gentlemen presen for smoking without receiving the permission of the fair sex or the

ench. As a matt@r of fact, the Chief Justice found quite sufficient to occupy his attention during the entire trial. On more than
one occasion he requésted the learned counsel
to translate the Latin maxims quoted for fear
they might be of ‘a d@famatory nature.

The dignity of the Law was seriously
threatened when two Arts students attempted
to leave the court room without bowing to the
Bench on their departure, but due to the
alertness of Sheriff Kennedy and Deputy
Sheriff Fogo they were given an opportunity
to correct their grievotis error and allowed to
depart in peace.

The arguments of counsel in the first case
being concluded» their Lordships reserved
judgment.

One Coughlin was then arraigned before
the Chief Justice for defacing a notice on the
Law notice board, and was found ‘‘guilty,’’

 

 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
    
  
  
 

but on application a Crown Case Reserved

was granted.
. —I. L. B.

Little Boy (passing his plate for more
dressing)—‘‘Gee! I’m glad this me had
its dinner before it was killed.’’ '

COME TO GLEE CLUB MONDAY a A
GOOD BNFERTAINGE NS ARRANGED.

 

 

INTERMEDIATE CITY LEAGUE PLAY-OFF

PROBABLY THIS SATURDAY, NOV. 3,

WATCH, NOTICE BOARDS

seein a a
_ ed ee es J

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY
1088 to 1090 Barrington St. |

 

eR eae, yee wey ee a ee pity hl

Young Man’s Store

 

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

;
|
:

 

Barrington Street
Corner George St.

NOVA SCOTIA

W. F. PA

HALIFAX,

 

R. J. LEARY

THE CLEANER.

Cor Argyle and Sackville Sts. |
Economize in your Pressing by buying a
Strip of Four Tickets for $2.00.

Each ticket entitles you te hate Pe Suit or
Overcoat Sponged and

Our Regular Rate is 75c a Suit

WE ALSO DO DYEING, DRY-CLEANING,
REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.

Phone Sack 2054

| See our newest styles and get our
|| special prices to students. '

501 BARRINGTON ST.
PHONE SACKVILLE 1395 _

 
  

    
