  

neal eas

| RECTLY

Treas
NSE M0 2287
x 4 * SS >

R 2 % 4 >
» con e ’ ‘ , 7
' ) Le ¥5 ~ e
Q : : A
~ Salad ‘at
1 ‘ Ay Ges . ;
fF : Ne 4 Pat Ag e H
! S AK e
a |
my baz i
- —_—. a
\ @ ns, 6 cae =
B S (4
; Y/
°
ee

 

Che

 

| Dalhousie Gazette

jy
2
5

0
3

7G
Sy

GRADUATION

_NUMBER, 1923.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

, RE AC quality insures the |
/ : er | a. player in any
game of getting
the utmost from his skill You can look
forward to a wonderful season if you look

to REACH equipment to help make it so.

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
HALIFAX
HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS
HENRY §. COLWELL........cscsscessecseeees President
GARNET J. COLWELL. ..........0....-. Vice-President

RAY J. COLWELL,........000eeeeeceecesees ses sDirector —
CYRIL H. COLWELL.... ..........Secretary-Treasuret |

CRAGG BROS. CO. Ltd.

Sole Distributors

Barrington Street Halifax, N. 8.

IALLEN’S

| THE LEADING BOOKSTORE
| SSS
|

|

 

Moirs Chocolates

the famous ‘eoutalaen of Dalhousie

 

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.

Also School and College Text students for generations, because
i Books, Engineers’ Supplies of He they are the freshest, have the most
i all kinds, i _varied fillings, and are covered by
I Commercial and Society Stationery. . the most delicious eating.

—

|} —Waterman’s Fountain Pens— }

| ri Saf 0. ||, MOIRS LIMITED , Argyle St.

PHA, BET A You know the rest of this |}. |
AL Alphabet, but won’t you - -U N ( A R’ ss.
learn the preeeen from a music dealer's text book. i

It starts like this:—
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons, How often a perfectly good

 

 

Auto Harps, Banjos, Heelies, | ‘garment is discarded because |]
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos, it is soiled and stained. That
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums. x hldause: tha -waebor eee teat
EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC. | Pec teas e
: . Rema, af 7 realize our wonderful process
We also carry a nice line of Pictures—
Harrison Fisher’s Maxfield Parrish’s, etc. 1 of French Dry-Cleaning, which
We Invite You to Join Our Fiction a restores old clothes, and makes

Lending Society, 2c per day.

J. A. McDONALD PIANO |||} why not try us?

them look like new. .

& MUSIC CO., LTD. gee wee
419 Barrington Street, Halifax, N. S. Phone Sack. 428 @
Phone Sackville 1200. | Laundering, Cleaning, Dyeing

 
 

Chir
Dalhousie Gazette

Founded 1869.

issued Weekly - - . - One Dollar Per year
J. GORDON FOGO, Law ’24 - - -  - Editor-in-Chief
J. R. NICHOLSON, B.A., Law ’23 -~ - Business Manager

Associate Edtiers

Miss Juanita O’Connor - - - Dent. ’24
Miss Roberta Forbes - - - Commerce '23
H. A. Creighton, B.A. - - - Med. ’24
D. C. Colquhoun” - - - - Law ’24
Miss Amy MacKean - - - Arts ’24
R. F. Callan - - - - - - Arts ’23
P. M. Cassidy - - - - - - Eng. ’23
R. R. Dalgleish - - += - - Dent. ’24
M. M. MacOdrum - - - - Arts ’23

Special Reporters

A. C. Milner, Law ’24 D. R. Webster, B.A., Med. ’25

Staff Artists
Miss Rose Leslie, Arts ’24 C. W. Currie, Eng. '24

Overseas Correspondent = - - =" - J. A. Dunlop, B.A

 

 

WEEKS PRINTING CO., LID.
2 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

ADDITIONS TO MEDICAL COLLEGE

 

Public Health and Out-Patient Clinic.

 

Bio-Chemistry and Pharmocology Building.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 8

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Frontispiece—New Medical Buildings...............-.+- 2
Peiorodt welalls oc... om . oe OM, . M. -B eae- « «cue 0g ee Bie 5
Poem—Dalhousie ..............2005: at, eae Poe Ae 7
A New Privilege and What It Means..................-. 29
Lien cameron: IS an feet ok. ol! ee ee 11
RirOr iar «tere Se PS . lathes we ical ae - ee oe ee 13
Poem—ssienitioanoe.. |... ... Sa... 7). eel 2 ne 15
Dalhousie—Acadia Debate.... 0.0.0.0... 0. 0c eee ees 16
Girls’ Intercollegiate Debate............ 0.2... c eee ee eee 19
Medicine 1923. .. MUR J. dl. Lip... Aca cles oe TEM. . BRE 25
Gifts for the Biology Department.................-..05- 29
tiradnateseim Dawe... 00. FREE wy ae veld Sh ns cee 30
Graduates sin» Deritistrys 2°. Bos... ce oe AE 37
ie mmUigUneeGe won Mok. oh. Mee Bods. hema. le eres 42
Pirperand science Zo. . 25 unt eas. ala. ke ee 45
Three Graduates in Commerces. .2. 0... 0... 5. 2 c+ ew ole oes 56
Aihletie_-newew 1929-23 -. ..94 2.8.5 «0. . ts kp.) eee! 57
Annual Financial Statement............. 0... e eee eee eee 60
Ber lomeaOeeicere!. 4 D, ... eps le ss ee ld 62
TGA» (eAnanal Meeting... .. mii. d. Jos lL. oe og 62
(maduaics-.... 2.0)... Swle, 0. ee OR. a me 63

The Lexicographer........-- eee eee ee ere eee eens
 

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

Main Entrance on South Street.
 

t

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 5

Shirreff Hall

HIRREFF HALL, the new residence for lady students of
Dalhousie, is one of the most beautiful buildings in Halifax. It is situated on the southwest corner of the Studley
Campus, on a long hill s'oping gently towards the waters of
the North-West Arm. From its windows is obtained a most
delightful view of the Arm and harbour mouth, besides much
of the south and western parts of the city. The location is
ideal, and much of the charm of the building comes from its
surroundings.

The need of a suitable ladies’ residence at Dalhousie was
long felt, and the present building was made possible through
the munificent gift of the late Mrs. Eddy. She took intense
interest in the development of the Greater Dalhousie, and this
latest unit in the plan was built and named in honor of her
brother. The architeets were Dartling and Pearson, of Toronto, Ont., a house classed among the leading architectural
firms of Canada. Mrs. Eddy took a personal interest in the
actual planning of the building, and many of her ideas are
evidenced in the design and layout.

The residence was built by the Dalhousie Construction
Department, under the direct charge of Col. J. A. Marshall.
The plumbing, heating, electrical work, and such like, were
let out on contract to local firms. Construction was commenced in the Fall of 1921, and the building will be ready for
occupancy before the Summer. The furnishing and other final
touches are now well under way. It is understood that the
total cost will be about $300,000.

The main entrance to the Hall faces South street, the
frontage, at present, being approximately 160 ft., with a
depth of about 220 ft. The walls are constructed of native
ironstone, with gray and reddish quartzite, blended so that a
pleasing colored tinge is given to the whole building. The
pillars, bases and courses are Wallace free-stone, to relieve
the monotony and complete the architectural scheme, which
is Georgian. Green shutters are on every window, and a
green slate roof completes the exterior decoration. The
floors are hardwood throughout, except the main’ entrance
hall, stairs landings, and bath rooms, which are red quarry
tile brought from Wales. The inside finish is hard pine, except the library, which is panelled in mahogany, and the entrance hall and drawing-room, which are done in oak.
6 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The present building is divided into three principal parts.
The main building consists of five floors, with the exception of
the southwest wing, which has, in addition, a sub-basement,
containing the boiler and furnace rooms, and coal storage.
Owing to the contour of the ground about this wing, the basement floor here is at ground level, and is occupied by students’
living quarters, store rooms, ete., and extends back under the
center and rear portions of the building. The ground floor
is occupied by students’ living quarters, the entrance and reception halls, wardens’ quarters and office, library and reception rooms. The first and second floors are entirely living
quarters for students, and on the third floor, in the southwest
wing, is the infirmary. In connection with the latter are several wards, a diet kitchen, and living quarters for the nursing
staff. The remainder of this floor is given to students’ living quarters.

The center portion contains the dining and serving
rooms, the former being the show room of the building, Sandstone pillars support the beautiful, high, canopied ceiling,
large windows flood the room with light, and the expanse of
polished, hardwood floor sets off the interior decorating. The
serving room is equipped with the most modern and convenient apparatus for the efficient handling of food in quantities necessary for such an institution.

The rear portion consists of four floors. In the basement
are store rooms for supplies and a separate heating unit for
supplying hot water and steam to the kitchens. On the
ground fioor are the kitchens, pantries, refrigerator, servants’ dining hall and house-keeper’s offices. The kitchens
are equipped with the most modern and efficient apparatus
obtainable. Steam, coal and gas ranges, electric toasters, potato peelers, etc., all aid to lighten and expedite the preparation of the foodstuffs. The first and second floors are occupied by the living quarters of the staff,

A most efficient fire protection system extends throughout the building. On each floor of each wing are fire alarm
boxes and bells. Stand pipes extend to the top floor, with
two hose connections on each floor of the main building and
one connection on each floor of the wings. Two outside hose
connections are provided, so that the city fire engines may
pump water, under high pressure, into the residence system.
Hach wing is separated from the rest of the building by conerete walls fitted with steel fire doors, so that a fire would be
very closely confined.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 7

Linen closets and trunk rooms are provided on every
floor, and a freight elevator runs from the sub-basement to
the third floor. A ventilating system from all the bath rooms
leads to an electrically driven fan in the attic.

The present building is less than one-half the projected
size and will now house about eighty students, All the bed
rooms are single except eight or ten, and the scheme of living quarters is such that the students are divided into units
of eight and seventeen, each unit having its own study and
kitchenette for general use.

Situated, as it is, in close proximity to the other Studley
buildings, and but a few minutes from the Forrest Campus,
the residence is sure to become a favorite place of abode for
the lady students. It will be oceupied next term, and it is
hoped that before long the structure will stand, another complete link in the Dalhousie University System.

Dalhousie
Our love for thee, Dalhousie,
Abatement shall not know.
Thy name will ever rouse the
Deep loyalty we owe
To thee, our kindly mother,
Our friend and helper true,
To whom, as to no other,
Our gratitude is due.

Thy black-and-golden pennon
Shall be our constant guide;
No prouder could lead men on,
Or justify more pride.

We glory in the story

That tells the truth of thee;
We glory in thy glory,

As champion of the free.

The memory of thy pleasures,

Within our hearts will live,

Most precious of the treasures

That life to us can give.

Our dearest recollections

Round thee will fondly cling;

Our joy shall be selections

Of praise to thee to sing. W. EH. M.
‘PLOHUD “A ‘tose -q ‘f fsequog ‘y “s : MOY JOT ‘HABIO ‘IW SSW Su0IUTY] ‘YW SST
. (r9Inseery-"f4090G) Testa “AM “J ‘('soig) d1zueyorp ‘y ‘N {(‘seagra01a) cJoquny ‘WY OV SSUA SSIINA “A SSI + MOY pudosag
‘uuny “VY "M ‘ueWdIyD OD 'M ‘]]eM0ID “YO fuosmeq ‘5H fulAgfy ‘gq ‘D ‘ARN VyoeuW ‘WW fesvaig ‘YO MO" pauyy
"SOUUPD “G ‘Se7e “JT "MM SUOS[OUIIN “Y ‘f {WUeIy ‘qf ‘UesOT ‘WW ‘HD ‘ssexy) ‘GY: Moy yYoeg

=
Fa}
a
eo
N
<q
a
=
=
Th
=
OQ
=
—
s
=
ca)
Fo
HH

Jpune) sJuepnys AjzisIaAuyp

 
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 9

A New Privilege and What It Means

VER since Dalhousie ‘Law School was founded in 1883,

under the direction of Hon. Mr. Justice Russell and Dean

R. C. Weldon, M. A. Ph. D., when it ‘*. . . had the singu
lar good fortune to win the favor of the bench and bar’’, the

faculty and governors have co-operated with the Nova Scotia

Barristers’ Society and similar professional organizations in
Canada.

With the larger organization more recently formed, the
Canadian Bar Association, all of the law schools of the
Dominion have been working in very close union in their
efforts to improve Canadian legal education. Thus it has
not been thought advisable that Dalhousie Law School seek
additional membership in anv separate organization such as
the Association of American Law Schools. However, though
not actually a member of the latter assoc‘ation, Dalhousie has
been recently recognized by Harvard Law School as ‘‘qualified to be member’’. (1) The result of this recognition is that
Dalhousie law graduates will now be admitted to graduate
studies at Harvard Law School with the same standing as
graduates of these American Law schools which maintain the
high standard necessary to entitle them to membership in the
American association.

This reecogn'tion is the immediate consequence of a visit
to Harvard by Professor S. E. Smith of Dalhousie during the
summer of 1922, and a subsequent submission of data to the
Harvard authorities by Dean D. A. MeRae concerning the
work now being done at Dalhousie Law’School. The information submitted covered entrance requirements, the length of
the course, the scope of the curriculum, the number of lectures
and the method of instruction. A reeent change in the regulations included in the above statement was to the effect that the
minimum requirement for entrance to the law course will be
two years of Arts, beginning in the autumn of 1923. Another
was that while hitherto students who have taken certain law
subjects as part of their course for the Bachelor of Arts degree at other colleges of the Maritime Provinces have been
allowed to complete their law course at Dalhousie in two
years, this arrangement is term'nated in 1923, Three years
must henceforth be devoted entirely to the study of law before a candidate will be granted the Dalhousie Bachelor of
Laws degree.
10 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

It is of course a matter of congratulation that Dalhousie
Law School has been recognized by Harvard, ‘‘the oldest and
most celebrated law school in America’’ (founded in 1827),
as having attained a status of equality with the leading law
schools of this continent. In addition to the honor, however,
there flows from this recognized status both a privilege (mentioned above) of great practical value to Dalhousie graduates
in law and a new responsibility upon the Dalhousie constituency.

The extent of the newly attained privilege is best expressed in the words of the secretary of the Law School of
Harvard University in a letter to Dean McRae. He says in
part: ‘‘We shall be prepared to admit as candidates for our
graduate degree any graduates of your school who have completed satisfactorily your three year course but could not
admit men who have had only two years of law work with
. you. It would also be necessary of course for the applicants

ta have received a B. A. degree and to have completed the
three years of law work with high rank’’.

Thus the degree of Doctor of Law from Harvard Law
School may now be conferred upon a B. A. graduate of Dalhousie Law School on completion of one year’s residence at
Harvard after receiving the Dalhousie LL.B degree, providing he “‘pass with distinguished excellence examinations (at
Harvard) upon courses aggregating ten hours of lectures a
week during the entire vear, including the course in Roman
Law and the Principles of Civil Law, and also other graduate
courses aggregating at least two hours of lectures a week.’’ ‘*)

Progress is the characteristic of modern life, and it is,
of course, obvious that in the sphere of legal education, as in
that of all sciences, there is a constant process of achievement
and discovery which makes for progress. There is not only
a variation and improvement of method based on the experience of the present and immediate past, but there is a continual accumulation and analysis of the subject matter as a
result of a combination of contemporary and historical research. There is a selective synthesis in which the aim is ever
to bring the ‘‘How’’ into a progressive harmony with the new
discovered ‘‘Why”.

If therefore, a law school is to maintain a position among
the leaders of its kind, its teaching staff must have an opportunity for diligent research in the fields of both historical and
contemporary jurisprudence. At Dalhousie this opportunity
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 11

can come only with additional full time lecturers,—and the
additional lectures only with an increased endowment.  ‘*)

It is thus essential to the well-being of Nova Seotia in
particular, and Canada as a whole, that Dalhousie law students be adequately prepared in the future, as now, to meet
the difficult and ever changing problems of a complex and
progressive social order. They must be prepared to help
preserve the stability of the national life, and at the same time
assist in its evolution to a higher state.

To Nova Scotians and Dalhousians past and present will
the benefit of maintaining a progressively high standard at
Dalhousie accrue; upon them is the responsibility and the
burden.

H. E. R.
(1) Register of Harvard Law School, p. 11.

(2) I bid.
(3) See “Progress of Dalhousie Law School’, Gazette, Nov. 8th, 1922.

In Memoriam
GERALD EMMERSON MISENER.

It is with heartfelt sorrow that we here record the death
of our classmate, Gerald Misener, who was to have graduated
in 1923.

Gerald was born at Woodside, Nova Seotia. The Dartmouth schools and the Halifax Academy contributed to his
early education. While at the latter institution he won recognition as a student by carrying off the honors in mathematics
and science. He came to Dalhousie in the year 1920. Here
he excelled in mathematics, displaying unusual ability. His
keen interest in his work did not prevent him from taking an
active part in college life and affairs. In the capacity of
secretary-treasurer he served the Glee Club during the most
successful season of recent years. His rare skill as a pianist
was always at the disposal of Dalhousians, and in fact, of any
organization which needed assistance. A genial disposition
and sincere nature made all who knew him value highly his
friendship. Class ’23 and all Dalhousians mourn his passing.

(In the convocation exercises the Degree of Bachelor of
Science was awarded as of April 16th, 1923, to Gerald Emmerson Misener).
‘peey “WH SAptsseg ‘J ‘d : MOY WUOIT

‘TUNIPOMY “We ‘We ‘seqtog BqQ1oqoy ssl]
{(qeSeuey, ssoulsng) wosjoyoin ‘“y “p (ropa) o80q “H ‘f tzouu0g,cC eylueNng ssI, t‘uveyoeyy] “pH Awy Sst :woy Puoses
‘ysia[Z]eq “YW “YW te3sqeM “Hq ‘unoynbjoD oO ‘q Seu °O “VW *URTIBD “A "A *uoqysIeID “Y "H *Moy yoed

 

GAZETTE

ea
—
N
=
OQ
=
—
<a
eS
&
oy
=

 

"6O°G66I--HPRIS P}9zeH oisnoyed

 
THE DALHOUSIE GAZHTTE 13

Editorial

ALE! Farewell! The final editorial of the year is in
reality the valedictory of the editor and staff who controlled the destinies of this publication during the fiftyfourth year of its existence. Founded in 1869 by a few students of journalistic tendencies, The Dalhousie Gazette soon
became the official organ of the student body and it has been
continuously published as such since that time.

During the present term, we have endeavored to live up
to the splendid ideals and traditions of the past, except where
changing conditions demanded minor deviations, and though
the publication has oft fallen far short of our aim, we hope
that it has lost none of its prestige among its contemporartes.
We have been criticised for not being a purely literary pamphlet, and on the other hand, for our leanings in that direction;
that we attained the happy medium, generally suitable to all,
is for you, our readers, to say. Many still there are, we
know, who favor the old style monthly magazine edition of
the Gazette, in which no attempt was made to function as a
news medium; that was the pure literary sheet. The modern
progressive universities have, however, abandoned that type
of paper in favor of a real college newspaper. The larger
universities which are composed of several united colleges
and professional schools have even successfully produced college dailies. Of course, Dalhousie has not numerically reached the stage where a daily newspaper is practicable, but a
weekly of that nature would serve the purpose well. But
that is for the future. We took conditions as we found them,
introduced no radical alterations in system or policy, carried
on to the best of our ability. The task is now finished.

During the college year 1922-1923 those who have enjoyed
the privilege of attending Dalhousie University have witnessed much evidence of the continuing progress of this institution. Such items are the completion of Shirreff Hall, the
beautiful girls’ residence so generously provided by the late
Mrs. K. B. Eddy; the building of the Public Health and OutPatient Clinic and a new Medical College structure on College
Street, made possible by the beneficence of the Rockefeller
Foundation. Additions of this nature to the assets of Dalhousie cannot be interpreted as anything but progress in its
widest sense. Further and if anything of greater significance,
is the fact that 1922-23 saw a greater enrollment than ever
14 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

before in the history of Dalhousie. It has been truly said
that the students are the greatest assets of any university:
this is then a great university, for nowhere could one meet
finer types of Canadian manhood and womanhood than in the
halls in our Alma Mater.

The notable development in the physical side of college
life during the past year are indicia of progress. The appointment of a capable physical instructor, Mr. W. H. Stirling, his remarkable accomplishments during one term and
the respect he earned from his co-workers, have firmly established him in the hearts of the students.

This year you will note a departure from the past few
years in the form of the graduation number. After due consideration the editorial staff thought it advisable to adopt a
somewhat more compact form, with a greater appeal to the
graduates. This book may find a niche in their book-cases
and be useful as a record of their final year at Dalhousie.

In conclusion we wish to express our sincere appreciation
of the support given us by the student body during the term,
particularly to those who contributed to these pages. The
members of the staff have been most loyal and untiring in
their efforts to satisfy the hunger of an anxious editor for
‘‘copy’’. He can only thank them and wish, to those who are
leaving college, success in their chosen fields, to those who return to Dalhousie, scholastic achievement in whatever faculty
they may find themselves.

Again, the city dailies have been most kind to the Gazette.
Their ready co-operation has made possible at times projects
which would otherwise have been totally impossible. We
thank them.

Notice

Next term all students desiring note books, drawing
paper and such supplied will be able to obtain them at a
greatly reduced rate at the Murray Homestead, Studley. This
is an entirely new scheme, approved by the Students’ Christian Association and with your aid it will prove successful.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 1d

Significance

More venerable the castle is when years

Have cast their shadow on its stately walls

And toned their virgin whiteness into gray;
When mosses grow in far and erumbling corners,
And o’er all the reverend ivy creeps;

When through its lofty chambers lives have passed,
Leaving romantic memories in the dark

And silent spaces where the twilight broods;
Then, with the years, a solemn grandeur falls
Upon the masonry that man has reared

Giving it something of the mightiness

Which sleeps upon the towered hills of God.

More dear to patriot heart the land becomes
That lies beyond the seas, and nevermore

The yearning eyes may look upon those scenes
Once so familiar, and so lightly prized:

When, through the boundless emptiness of night,
The soul upon the memory of a star

Floats to that distant land, and loves again

The violet peopled valleys, song filled streams,
And plains in spotless surplices of snow;

Then, as the moonlight floods the darkened sea
With light of foam pale gold, a deep and strong,
A new significance o’erfloods that land

With beauty born of loneliness and love.

And so, Dalhousie ! now that time has ebbed
And left us high upon the further shore,
We see thy deep, thy great significance,

We know at last what love we bear to thee.

Jaumta O’Connor.
16 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dalhousie-Acadia Debate

ALHOUSIE added another laurel to her debating honours
on the 27th of March by receiving the unanimous decision
of the judges over the Acadia inter-co legiate debating team.
Previous to this debate Dalhousie had never been victorious
over Acadia in the men’s league and the victory reflects
great credit on the members of the team, on the inter-collegiate committee and on the coach, M. C. MacDonald. Acadia
had selected the affirmative of the resolution, ‘* Resolved, that
the right of appeal from Canadian Courts to the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council should be abolished’’. The
Dal debaters were L. W. Fraser (Law 25), Leader, S. G. Gilchrist (Med. ’25), and Donald McInnes (Arts ’24). Acadia
was represented by J. L. Pearson, Leader, F. W. Doyle, and
H. B. Camp. The debate was held in the Baptist church,
Wolfville. Dr. Patterson, the newly elected President of
Acadia, was in the chair and the judges were Dr. Tweedie, of
“Mount Allison, Rev. Dr. Phelp, Sackville, and Rev. P. A.
Walker, of Amherst.

Mr. Pearson in opening the case for the affirmative stated that in many instances the decisions of the Privy Council
have not been handed down till many years after the facts
were submitted. Expenditure entailed in an appeal was frequently outrageous and it was almost prohibitive for a poor
man to ever take an appeal to the English Court. The affirmative, he said, was not necessarily defending the Supreme
Court of Canada as a court of final appeal. Canada, he further stated, has progressed beyond the need of a judicial committee. Mr. Pearson, making his first appearance as an intercollegiate debater, showed remarkable promise and his arguments were clearly defined, well presented and arranged in
logical sequence.

L. W. Fraser, the first speaker for Dalhousie, stated that
the negative was not seeking to establish or abolish anything; they were merely defending the right of appeal to the
judicial committee of the Privy Council. The whole burden of
proof rested on the affirmative, to prove that the present
Supreme Court of Canada is capable of handling all cases,
that it would be in the best interests of Canada to do away
with the appeal and further that it would be in the best interests of the British Empire as a whole. Mr. Fraser dealt
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 17

   

Sid. Gilchrist. Leonard W. Fraser (Leader). Don. MacInnes.

with the superior training of English judges and their special fitness for hearing the appeals. ‘‘They are’’, he declared,
“*snecialists with a field of practical experience which no
Canadian judge can ever hope to have the advantage of?’’.
The point was stressed that the court was far removed from
public clamour, which tended to a greater degree of impartiality. Mr. Fraser took issue with the Acadia leader as to the
appeal being a rich man’s privilege. He explained how a
poor man could appeal and have all his expenses paid for
him. ‘‘To state that the right of appeal is a rich man’s privilege is to distort and falsify the truth of the situation’’, the
speaker hotly contended. The Dalhousie leader was in splendid speaking form and again demonstrated his eloquence and
his ability as a debater. He appeared entirely at ease before
the large Wolfville audience and his voice, under perfect control, rang clearly in all parts of the hall. His speech was excellently constructed and ‘‘put across” with all the effectiveness of a veteran.

F. W. Doyle was the second speaker for Acadia, and in
a very telling speech advanced strong arguments for the
affirmative. Mr. Doyle used a splendid speaking voice to advantage. He dealt principally with the delay and expense
incurred by appeals to the Privy Council and advanced the
claim that the Supreme Court is the more ideal tribunal, as
it is closer the seat of litigation. The doing away with the
right of appeal he thought was a logical step in our national
development.
18 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Mr. MeInnes followed for Dalhousie. He declared that
the appeal had to be retained in order to settle constantly
arising constitutional cases. He explained why our Supreme
Court from its very composition could not be a competent
court to deal finally with these cases. He cited several instances where great injustices would have been done were it
not for the Privy Council. The great dispute over the ownership of western lands had to be decided by the Privy Council.
Mr. McInnes declared that the right of appeal was not derogatory to our national status. There was nothing compulsory
about it. ‘‘The judical committee does not stand as a dogmatic arbitrator’’. Moreover, he declared the right of appeal was a great unifying force within the British Empire.
Mr. McInnes made an excellent. impression. His manner of
speaking is convincing and he had a complete grasp of his
subject. His speech reflected great personal credit on himself and to his college.

The last speaker for Acadia, H. B. Camp, approached his
- task with pleasing vim and ability. Mr. Camp has a rich
voice and he presented his case in a foreeful manner. He
sketched the abolition of appeal in criminal eases, and the
fight for responsible government. ‘‘Legislative autonomiy
without judicial autonomy is impossible’’ declared Mr. Camp.
He stated that Canada’s independence demanded her own final
court of appeal.

Mr. Gilchrist in an eloquent and fighting speech concluded the regular speeches. He asserted the absolute necessity
of the right of appeal in racial and religious cases. He cited
definite cases where Canadian judges had divided on questions according to racial and religious feelings. ‘‘It is only
natural,’’ Mr. Gilchrist declared, ‘‘that a judge will see the
ease from his own viewpoint’’. Mr. Gilchrist declared that
there had been no popular demand in Canada for the abolition of the appeal. He quoted from the Canadian Bar Review
to prove that our judges, our lawyers, the press and the people
who should know, favor the appeal. How could his opponents in the face of this justify their stand? Mr. Gilchrist spoke
with a force of eloquence which greatly impressed his audience. His speech fairly bristled with arguments which he put
across in a most effective manner.

The rebuttal of the rival leaders is always an important
part of the debate.
THR DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 19

Mr. Fraser in a masterful rebuttal attacked the Acadia
ease at its very foundation. He emphasized that the burden
of proof was on the affirmative and that they had failed. to
establish what they were bound to establish before they could
succeed. He effectively rebutted the argument of delays and
costs. He pointed out several holes in the Acadia case which
he declared the Acadia leader was in honor bound to readjust
himself on. Mr. Fraser contended that Canada had not outgrown the appeal so long as we had constitutional cases, racial
and religious cases and at the call of time he challenged the
Acadia leader to point out to his audience how the present
Supreme Court of Canada could iposstbly handle effectively
these cases.

The negative case and the challenges of the Dalhousie
leader seemed to take Mr. Pearson by suprise but he came
back with a strong rebuttal. He re-asserted that Canadians
were capable of handling their own cases. The bonds of em
pire would not be weakened, as they were bonds of sentiment
rather than legal ties. The demand for abolition had not been
apparent because the question had not been given a chance for
discussion.

« The decision of the judges, rendered quickly after the debate, was unanimous for Dalhousie. At the conclusion of the
debate the Acadia Athenaeum Society entertained the visiting
Dalhousians and the judges at a banquet, at which the Dal
team expressed its deep appreciation of their reception at
Acadia.

The Girls’ Intercollegiate Debate

ALHOUSIE Co-eds, in the persons of Miss May Linton
(Law); Miss Clara Murray (Arts)! and Miss Olive
Atlee (Arts ’23), captured for the second time, and in succession to last year’s victory, the Girls’ Intercollegiate Debating
Title for 1923.

Last year the palm was wrested from ‘‘Old King’s’’ and
Dalhousians were loud in their plaudits of the victors; but,
with the tremendous outburst of hand-clapping, cheering and:
stamping which followed the announcement by the judges of
Acadia’s defeat in this year’s contest, there came a conviction
to the on-looker that Dalhousians were therein celebrating
the fulfillment of a great hope. Never were intercollegiate
struggles held in more stimulating atmosphere than in that of
 

20s THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

UNIVERSITY GIRLS’ DEBATING TEAM

 

Miss Clara Murray (Arts ’24) Miss Olive Atlee (Arts ’23)

THE LEADER

 

Miss May Linton (Law ’25)
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 21

those m which Dalhousie and Acadia compete. Thus it was,
that, on that cold and rainy night in March, as hundreds of
people crowded themselves into some corner or another of the
Assembly Hall in the School for the Blind, there was within
the Hall a warmth which was.of the spirit; there was apparenf a tensity of expectation and as the Chairman rose to
make the formal statement of debate, there was an almost
strained silence. :

The judges were announced as follows:—Hon. E. H.
Armstrong, Premier of Nova Scotia; Rev. Dr. Clarence MacKinnon, Principal of Pine Hill College and prominent member of various boards of arbitration and conciliation in
Labour disputes; and His Honour Judge Margeson of the
Supreme Court of Nova Scotia. When these most distinguished officials had assumed their several stations the Chairman,
Mrs. W. H. Dennis, read in a clear and distinct voice the
resolution, as authoritatively worded. The debate was then
declared open, Dalhousie supporting the affirmative of the
resolution.

Miss Clara Muray spoke first, for Dalhousie. In argument sound, in voeal tone pleasant, and in platform presence
admirably self-possessed, Miss Murray delivered a most convineing speech. An able, if not an eloquent, debater Dalhousie may henceforth rely on her to worthily uphold the University’s honour on any platform in the land.

Acadia’s leader, Miss K. Bolby, a member of last year’s
Acadia team also, followed Miss Murray. The audience was
given a rapid outline of the negative case, several points
were discussed in detail and conclusions drawn which were
most striking examples of logical inference. Miss Bolby’s
whole speech and argument was effectively buttressed by
facts, and gave evidence of much careful study: and intelligent consideration of the subject under debate.

With both eases so effectively stated, and such promise
of stirring wordy combat proferred, the audience stirred in
eagerness as Miss Linton, Dalhousie’s leader, arose to continue the presentation of the affirmative case. In a splendid
speech Miss Linton gave compelling proof of her unusually
brilliant debating qualities. Dlustrated with flashes of a delightful humour her words deeply impressed her audience
and left little doubt in many minds as to the merits of the
respective cases.
22 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Miss Jean Walker, Acadia’s second speaker delved deepiy into statistical lore and succeeded in evolving from a bewildering chaos of fact and figure orderly and creditable array of argument, with which she faced the affirmative defenders, challenging reputation.

Miss Olive Atlee, for Dalhousie, delivered then what
was probably the finest speech of the evening, both in convineing argument and in telling and pleasing presentation.
Our leader of last year’s victors fully justified every confident prophecy which her appearance upon the platform had
inspired. For in a voice ringing with that confidence born
only of a thorough knowledge of a subject Miss Atlee directed
a deadly attack at the very heart of the question under debate. In her graduation this Spring Dalhousie will lose one
of the finest debaters ever developed within the college halls.

The negative case was closed most effectively by Miss
Helen Archibald is a pleasant manner of measured decision.
TheAcadia trio, although destined to sustain defeat, were a
credit to their Alma Mater—splendid speakers, sound in argument and effective in presentation.

In rebuttal Miss Bolby far eclipsed her previous effort,
excellent though that had been. Indeed, so effectively did she
deal with affirmative points that many good Dalhousians became obviously ill at ease.

But Miss Linton proved equal even to this last trial and
her calmly confident conelusion and restatement reassured the
nervously inclined; for as in brief, terse terms she struck
down point after point of Acadia’s case the whole assembly
recognized the thrusts as death-strokes.

The judges awarded the debate to Dalhousie with one
point, on argument, for Acadia.

President MacKenzie entertained debaters and officials
with a reception at his residence. There, with the nervous
tension relaxed, victors and vanquished ‘‘sororized’’ on the
common grounds of Courage, Courtesy and Ability.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 23

Medicine 1923

FREDERICK JAMES NICKBE.

“The greatest sailor since our world began’’.

 

Unable to help himse'f Nick was born in Malone Ontario,
and took part of his medieal course at Toronto University.
When the war broke out he joined the British Navy and served
in the North Sea as ship’s surgeon on a British cruiser.
There seeing the error of his ways he returned to Dalhousie,
to finish his studies in the fall of 721. His collection of snaps
is said to be worth a fortune. A general favorite, he leaves
with the best wishes of all who know him.

HUBERT ANTOINE LYONS.
“‘There’s music in the sighing of a reed’.

Kentville was too small to hold a man like Hubert so he
eame to Dalhousie, accompanied by his clarionet and saxaphone. He stayed for several years at University Hall. He
is a steady, good-naturad chap and will make a success of his

profession.
Hobby—F reshettes.

TRA SANBORN PIDGEON.
““On with the dance’’.

Has a rare taste for beauty, choosing St. John as his
childhood stamping ground. His earliest recollection of Dalhousie is a night in the Ladies’ College, which immediately
shifted him from Dentistry to Medicine. He was a member
of the famous Birchdale Quartette and was said by some of
the Co-eds to be the best dancer in Dalhousie. In spite of all
this he carried on with Medicine and he will be a popular
figure wherever he goes.

Ambition—To eall every girl in college by her first name.
name.

CLEMENT McLEOD. .
‘““Hternal sunshine settles on his head’’.

Halifax claims Clem. He entered Dalhousie in 1914 but
enlisted as lieutenant in the 185th Batt. and later he was
24 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

transferred to the 85th, where he was known as the wittiest
man in the Battalion. When he returned to Dalhousie he
started in where he left off and you see the result. Clem has
always taken an interest in things about the college and the
city generally and while all wish him success it is with regret
to see so genial a spirit pass.

Favorite hobby—Bicycle riding.

FRANK GORDON WILSON.
‘*A tinker out of Belfast’’.

‘“‘Gunboat Bill’’ took his first clock to pieces in Sydney,
C. B., somewhere about the last of the nineteenth century.
For a long t:me he wavered between plumbing and medicine
but a nurse with a good Bible name decided him. When not
inventing a new puzzie Bill chased the puck around and attained no little fame in that diversion. Always ready to do a
good turn, he will be much mised by all who knew him and
. success «ill certainly attend him in his chosen profession,
Ambition—To own a Ford.

DARA MASON COCHRANE.
“Tt is a noble, generous and kindly profession’’.

Dara came to Dalhousie via Cape Breton but polish acquired and indurated during his youth in Cumberland County
was not to any extent removed by his sojourn in the Cannibal
Isle. His stay at Dal was marked by many inoculations with
the tea bacillus and he is known at one time to have adopted
as a hobby the collection of antiques, though his enthusiasm
for the latter was somewhat dampened by his first transaction
with the ‘‘Duke” (Purdy). Always active in college life, he
was president of the Medical Society during his first year.
The enthusiasm for his work which he has shown at college
lends promise of a successful career.

HERBERT RAYMOND CORBETT.

“*Bert’’ hails from Halifax. Came to Dal from St. Mary’s
College, in both of which places he had an enviable scholastic
record. Has defended the Medical goal with great success in
the Inter-faculty league for the last few years. Of late years
has been associated with Banting et al, in the discovery and
therapeutics of insulin.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 20

CLYDE WALLACE HOLLAND.

C. W. Holland, scholar, statesman and patron of the Arts,
originally graced Class 16. His medical career began as an
orderly in the Dalhousie Overseas Unit; now behold him, University medallist, ex-vice-president of the Students’ Council,
ex-secretary-treasurer of the Glee Club, ete., ete. Toronto’s
wail is that she plucked Osler. In days to come Dal can well
say that she did not pluck ‘‘Dutch’’.

HAROLD SYLVESTER DOLAN.

Harold claims South Nelson, N. B., as his home town.
After receiving a B. A. at St. F. X., he come up to see what
Dalhousie could do for him and left here a full-fledged M. D.,
C. M. He was very highly thought of by his classmates and
the profession generally, not to mention the nursing service.
Further, his patients ‘‘Don’t want to get well’’.

CECIL EDWIN KINLEY.

Lunenburg is his home port but instead of going to sea
on a ‘‘wessel” he played hockey for Mount Allison and then
transferred his affections to Dalhousie Medical College.
Here he performed prodigies of valour on the Medical hockey
team, besides making an enviable reputation in his classes.

KHDWIN COSMAN DAVIS.

“To be a gentlemaiy is to be one all the world over, and in
every relation and grade of Soctety’’.

St. John, which considers itself “‘no mean city’’, boasts
Eddie Davis as one of its sons. Of his earler life little is
known, but it is suspected that he was harassed by excessive
parental solicitude.

After spending two years at Acadia he joined the Air
Force. The war ended before he had the opportunity to become an ‘‘Ace’’ so looking around for new worlds to conquer
he decided on a Medical eareer.

Respected and liked by all who know him there is only
one thing more to be desired and that is to see him dirty just
once.
Fe
4
=
fe
NS
=<
oO
ea
e—
TD
BS
S
Hy
4
=<
A
fr}
ae
cH

 

ocaabenes is ee oS a

se sirname tr —

tae a — oe Siva aes [Iny) seuupory “qd

-(foeg 1oz1engy) sounryg "M Ter 101) eiee “A Cf SCpeg Jsyzwny) uozwog *-N “yf (paems0.) sauce D :MO’W ISe']
‘(PIVMIOT) UBOTOW “H + (Yoe_q FTeH) Wmsuey “A €(paia0,i) sIzue oe “VN + (9eg

JaytengG) uleydeg ‘e1o0jt “J ‘Ws (paemsoy) uesory “PT “ f(paemaoq) 119 “y f(yoeq jleH) WES g "Wed “Hi : Moy puossg
‘(deseueyy) 197xeg “Y ‘OQ ‘(prems0q)) WnapOosR “We ‘(paremsoy) sonag

WD ‘(peg MA) Yon ‘"T ‘(premazoq) puejzeyyng -y -q ‘(yoeg Jey) esvemg ‘oO ‘(paemsioy) paleg ‘Wq ‘HE : MOY yorg

ZG ‘SUOIdMIvY) 2}¥ISa][OI1OJUT OWITAe[—_weay, Aqeny YySsysugq sisnoyed
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 27

MAURICE LEVINE.
‘‘Behold an Israelkte mdeed in whom is no guile !’’

Since quitting his native town of Yarmouth and coming
to Dalhousie, Levine has been very unassuming, except ot
the great indoor sports, in which he always takes a prominent
part. In athletics he has confined himself to track events.
May he continue to hold good hands is the wish of his classmates.

HAROLD HUNTER CORBIN.

‘How much lies in laughter; the cipher key, wherewith we
decipher the whole man’’.

H. H. Corbin, one of the prominent citizens of Halifax,
was O. C. No. 1 Company in Sievert’s Fusiliers, 4 patron of
the Strand Theatre and an all-round good fellow. Ever
ready to do his share in college activities he ranks high in the
esteem of his fellows.

: MARGARET REBECCA CHASE.

Attended Wolfville High School, graduated in Arts from
Acadia and then joined the 1922 Medical Class at Dalhousie.
She spent the year 1920-21 at home and then joined the 1923
class. She was an interne at the Halifax Children’s Hospital
June-Dec., 1922.

She was never known to miss a college function or worry
over examinations and her importations of apples from her
Valley home have always met with the approval of her many
friends.

PHEBE KIRSTEN CHRISTIANSON.

Lived at Glace Bay, C. B., in her early childhood. She
went to high school in Edmonton, Alta. On returning to the
East she lived at Sydney Mines, C. B., until 1921, when she
changed her place of residence to Halifax. She entered Medicine in 1918, Class 1923. She enjoyed skating, dancing and
sports.
28 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

FOSTER SPROULL MURRAY.
““T’m not a politician and my other habits are good’’.

First kicked the slats out of his cradle in Lawrencetown,
Halifax County, and has kicked everything out of his way
ever since. His people went to O’Leary, P. E. L., via Harltown and Foster went with them. After three years at Prince
of Wales he came to Dalhousie and joined the army in Halifax. Leaving at the end of the war he re-entered Dalhousie.
A student above the average and an all-round good fellow,
Foster will have a successful career.

Favorite saying: ‘‘You never can tell, especially about
girls’’.

STANLEY HARCOURT PEPPARD.
“Much study is a wearmess to the flesh’’.

Was born beside the lobster factory at Port Howe. Asa
child he played with the fishes and has played fish ever since.
A graceful man on the dance floor his artistic temperament ts
a reflection of the beautiful sunsets on his native Cumberland
County. A real good fellow, hked by everybody, he leaves
with a host of well wishers.

ABRAHAM MEDJUCK.

First saw the sun rise over the harbour at Sydney, C. B.,
about a quarter of a century ago and then swore that as soon
as he could walk and talk he would leave. He kept his word
and came to Dalhousie. His sojourn here was tranquil and
uneventful and we wish him every success.

PERRY STANLEY COCHRANE.
‘He'll be a credit to us @.’’

Perry is a native of Fox River, Cumberland County,
where he was an outstanding figure in sporting circles and a
memiber of the Fox River baseball team. This fact is well
known to residents of University Hall, where he often displayed his ability at this game arrayed in the club uniform.
After leaving Fox River he continued his education at Sydney
Academy. He began his medical studies in 1918 and his
cheery disposition and general personality made him a host
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 29

of friends, especially among the nurses. Perry was a student
of merit which is a preeursor of a brilliant future.
Ambition—To curl his hair with a nail file.

REGINALD FREDERICK CLOUGH COOPER.

Noted as an artist of merit whose histology drawings
have acquired a permanent place as exhibits of what a student
in such subjects miay accomplish. In his seeond year he earried off the histology prize. Cooper eame to Dalhousie from
the British West Indies, Savanna la mar, Jamaica, and while
here earned a reputation he will carry with him wherever he
goes.

DAVID McPHERSON ROWLINGS.

The Musquodoboit Valley lost ‘‘Maccie’’ when he left it
for the Dalhousie Medical College. During his course, he
was not very widely known, being quiet and unassuming, but
a good student who will achieve success in his profession.

GIFTS FOR THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT

During the past couple of years the Biology Department
has been fortunate in the receipt of unexpected but much
needed assistance. The 1911 class Memorial Fund contributed Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) towards the purchase of
a sliding microtome. Mr. C. H. Mitchell donated One Hundred and Forty-five Dollars ($145.00) with which the Department obtained a steam-pressure sterilizing apparatus and the
1919 class Memorial Fund have offered One Hundred Dollars
($100.00) towards the purchase of books. In any scientific
department the apparatus required is so expensive and the
funds required so limited that such assistance is more than
welcome.
30 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Graduates in Law 1923

JAMES FORRESTER DAVIDSON, B. A.
“A gentleman and a scholar’’.

Forrester captured the Carswell prize in his second year
and was runner-up for the medal in his senior year. A student
of ability, quiet and unassuming, his native city of Halifax
will hear much of him in the future.

ALFRED GUILD FULTON.
“Ora et Labora’’.

Besides being ‘‘a worker’’ the reputation gained by
‘“Alf’’ as trainer of the Law Hockey Squad in his senior year
will stand him in good stead in days to come. He came to
Dalhousie from Guysboro.

RAYMOND DAWSON NEWSOME.
“What other tisland as there ?’’

The self-sacrificing and ‘‘beloved”” room-mate of one
William Morrison was always on deck for a discussion of
some intricate point. He was a prominent member of the
Law Hockey team for several years and was also on the
faculty Rugby team. He once gave valuable evidence concerning the Law Library before the Maddin Royal Commission.

RICHARD ANTHONY MACLEOD.
“And then the Justice’’.

‘* Judge’? MacLeod, as he was commonly called, was one
of the outstanding figures in the Law School during his sojourn here. Being a full-fledged Stipendiary Magistrate in
and for the County of Halifax, 8. S8., he performed miracles
with the examination papers in Crimes and Procedure.
‘‘ Judge’’ was held in high esteem by his fellows and oceupied
the presidential chair of the Law Society in 1922-23. As
Speaker in the Mock Parliament it must be said he looks
very well in a silk hat.
—_—

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 31

GIRLS’ BASKETBALL TEAM

 

Esther Crichton (forward), Madeline Mader (Forward), Carol Hawkins
(Side Centre).

Marion Clark (Centre), Eva Mader (Guard), May Proctor (Spare),
Marion Campbell (Forward).

JOHN FRANCIS MAHONEY.

“The rapt oration flowing free
From powmt to pout with power and. grace’’.

As leader of the Conservative party in the Mock Parliament for two consecutive sessions, ‘‘Buddy’’ thundered eriticisms at the government and the cross-benches. A native of
Halifax, he was educated at St. Patrick’s School and Halifax
Academy. He served overseas with the artillery. During
his course he served on the executive of the Law School and
was a representative on the University Students’ Council.
32 THH DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

BHDGAR DONALD LOUGHEED, B.A.

“T am a little prairie flower
s = a >?
Growing wilder every hour’’.

A graduate of Western Canada College and the University of Alberta, Edgar came to the College by the Sea from
Calgary with the rank of captain in the C. &. F. While at the
Law School he took an active interest in all the social affairs
and served nobly on banquet and dance committees. Associated with Beazley and Nicholson he studied hard and successfully, in fact, so assiduously that it is said that he is getting bald. His prowess as a goal tender, second only to the
‘‘Duke’’ earned him a reputation in hockey cireles.

CHARLES LOVETT BEAZLEY.
**T look at all things as they are’’.

‘“Charlie’’, a Halifax product, received his early training
at St. Mary’s College and then commenced a course in naval
architecture at Boston Tech. The latter was well under way
when he decided on a career at the Bar. He was a practical
student who did his work thoroughly and is one for whom
there is in store a brilliant future. During his senior year he
was manager of the University Hockey team. He was always
a general favorite.

CHARLES THOMAS HARRISON.
“Oh, young Lochinvar has come out of| the west”.

A veteran of many battles ‘‘Charlie’’ tackled the Dalhousie Law course and put on a suecessful attack in the final
examination salient in 1923. A good fellow with a fine personality, he was a strong: believer in co-education. He also
figured prominently in debating circles,—though indirectly.
He was an enthusaistic New Brunswiekan and took an active
part in the formation of the N. B. Society at Dalhousie.

ERIC JERRETT.
‘*Consistency—I never changed my mind’’.

‘‘T am Ssorry’’ remarked the Judge, ‘‘that our friend from
Newfoundland has departed’’. ‘‘Jerry’’ came to us from
Bishop Field College, St. John’s, with a tennis championship
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 33

and a collection of track and field sport cups and medals of
which Tui-an-Khamen might well be proud. A_ graceful
modesty and good cheer made him a favorite with his fellows
and also the young ladies of Halifax. ‘‘Fish” was an earnest
and thoughtful reader of cases and may be depended upon to
uphold Dalhousie’s traditions in the Ancient Colony.

COLIN FRANCIS McISAAC, B. A.
“*Tt is the mind that makes the man’’.

Armed with an Arts degree from St. F. X. ‘‘Collie’’ entered the Law School and with characteristic thoroughness
graduated at the appointed time. Unobtrusive and modest,
his many excellent qualities were known only to his intimates.
An unusual faculty of remembering small items of value,
surely a rare gift in a lawyer, will stand him in good stead in
the future. His conversations ever have evidences of observation and analyses of people which with his ability as a solid
thinker, mean swift success in his native town, Antigonish.

JOHN RODERICK MACDONALD, B. A.

“Flashes of merrunent that were
Won’t to set the table m a roar.’’

A soldier and a scholar, “‘J. R.’’ came to Dalhousie with
a Bachelor of Arts degree from St. F. X. and proved himself
a worthy addition to the Law Society. He said little but oft
revealed a rich vein of humor that was greatly enjoyed by
his fellows. Baddeck, C. B., claims him as one of her brawny
sons.

LIONEL ETHELBERT CROSS.
“‘For thy sake, tobacco, I would do anything but die’’.

Few law students ever haunted the Library ag he did, in
fact, he was even found there one Sunday afternoon when the
door had been left open. Cross was an educated man and a
gentleman, a friend of all who knew him. He had a splendid
overseas record and was a cricketer of note. His speech in
the French tongue at Mock Parliament, 1923, was only excelled by his discourse on the Common Law Marriage Bill of
1922. His home is in Trinidad.
34 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

JAMES GORDON HACKETT, B. A.
‘*He reads much, he 1s a great observer’.

‘‘ James K.’’ graduated from Mount Allison University
before coming to the Law School. On his arrival, it was soon
evident that he had all the excellent qualities desirable for the
post of ‘‘chaplain’’ of the Mock Parliament, and hence he was
appointed. Of the quiet type, he was not well known outside
the halls of Law, but there he made many a true friend. He
rs a native of North Sydney, C. B., and was one of the stars
on the Law hockey team during his course.

WILLIAM HAROLD MORRISON,
““T am from Cape Breton’’,

‘*Bill’’, who was well-known in his youth on the island
of Boularderie, intended to study medicine but early saw the
error of his ways and joined the followers of Blackstone. A
good student, well liked by his fellows, he was ever a leader
in Moek Parliament electioneering. His most famous exploit
occurred when he corralled the ballot box and refused to give
it up until permitted to poll his 4th vote.

JOHN ROBERT NICHOLSON, B. A.

*‘Mine eye hath well examined his parts,
And found them perfect,—’’

Intercollegiate debater, member of the Students’ Couneil,
business manager of the Gazette for three years, assistant
manager of the Dalhousie hockey sexette and numerous other
activities took a considerable of ‘‘J. R.’s’’ time while at college, but he graduated this spring and was the gold medallist
of his class. A product of New Brunswick, he is a son of
whom his native province may well be proud, and for whom
one can surely venture to prophesy a successful career at the
Bar. Jack was ever popular and will be missed at Dalhousie.

FREDERICK ALLAN HAMILTON, B. A.
“The germ in wisdom is in looking wise’’.

A student of ability and one of the most consistent ease
hunters in his year, this Dalhousie graduate in Arts well
earned his degree. He was also noted for his ability to ask
a?

——

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 30

his professors more questions in shorter time than the majority of his classmates. Hamilton called Scarborough,
‘Tobago, B. W. £., his home.

GERALD PATRICK FLAVIN.
‘*Bid me discourse, I will enchant thine ear’’,

‘*Gerry’’ was a Halifax Irishman who found in industry
the secret of carrying away a degree with first rate standing.
Pleasant and popular with his fellows, he was vice-president
of the Law Society for one year and represented his faculty
on the Students’ Council for several terms. His college
career was marked by a number of orations delivered from
the Conservative benches, where he always occupied a prominent position.

CECIL WRAY TOWNSHEND, B. A.
“‘My tough lance thrusteth sure’’.

Tennyson may have meant this for Sir Galahad, but he
is really deserrbing the way in which Wray’s hockey-stick
would get past the enemies’ pads when he captained Law’s
gallant but unsuccessful attempt to win the Interfaculty
Hockey League. King’s Collegiate School, MeGill and a few
years post-graduates’ work in the C. EK. F. provided his
earlier education. At Dal, Wray succeeded in combining the
two characters of good sport and good student and was
always ready to help extricate the Law Society fromi the
tangle of motions and amendments in which it was sometimes
involved.

NORMAN ARCHIBALD MacRAE MacKENZIEK, B. A.

““T1s thus the spirit of a single mind
Makes that of multitudes take one direction’’,

‘‘Larry’’ who hails originally, it is rumored, from Pictou
County enjoys the unique distinction of holding more offices
at Dalhousie than any other student, ancient or modern.
Twice President of the Student’s Council, backbone of the
Student’s Christian Association, ‘‘King miaker’’ in the
D. A. A. C., for four years a forward in the Senior Football
Team and prominent in every phase of student activity, are
but slight indications of the service that ‘‘Larry’’ has render36 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ed to his college and fellow students. After a fine record Overseas, as a private in the infantry, winnig the M. M. with bar
and his commission in the field, he returned to college hesitating between Theology and medicme. By a happy chance he
wandered one day into the Law Library and perusing a copy
of Coke-on-Lyttleton decided that Law should be his future
vocation. While he was one of the best students in his year
he was always ready to give much of his time to college affairs
and as an adjuster of the relations between Senate and students, relations that often but for him would have become exceedingly strained, he did for the college a service
which only a few adequately realize. Most of us, however, do
realize that next year Dalhousie will be in many ways a different college because we will not have ‘‘The Old Warhorse”’
back with us.
Ambition—To graduate in a soft collar. (Realized.)

WILLIAM WALLACE HOLMES, B. A.
- “He holds no parley with unmanly fears’’.

‘“Wal’’ was a resident of Halifax during the past two
years although his home was originally somewhere in the
Annapolis Valley. He graduated from Acadia shortly after
he graduated from the C. KE. F. Though somewhat inclined
to be quiet, he occasionally demonstrated that he was not
lacking in that most valuable asset—commonsense. Before
he came to Dalhousie he acquired a wife but that did not
seem to hinder him in the study of the Law for he was always
with the leaders.

JOHN FORBES MacNEILL, B. A.

“‘Tave, laugh and love your fill unt
The tume comes when you can’t’’.

As premier of the Liberal Government which held sway
in the Dalhousie Mock Parliament in 1923, John proved himself the possesor of a ready wit and facile tongue. He came
from Marysville, N. B., but those who know him well testify
that he never forgot that he was a native of the ‘‘Garden of
the Gulf’’. A genial companion and a briliant conversationalist, he was ever ready to tell the ‘“odd’’ story and it was
usualy a good one. As a student John was, with most of the
other returned soldiers, always in the front rank’’.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 37

Graduates in Dentistry, 1923
KARL PAYSON JOHNSON.

‘‘Men of a few words are the best men’’.

Karl is a native of Hants County but migrated across the
Bay to Parrsboro, where he spent a number of years and received his early education. In 1915 he entered Acadia, completed the freshman year and enlisted in the ‘‘219th’’, In
France he served with the M. G. Batt. On his return he
joined the ‘‘Old Soldier’? class in 1919 and since that time

‘has been a successful student. Quiet and unassuming, he was

well liked and will be successful in the ‘‘ Painless Profession’’.

ADAM JOHNSON McLELLAN.

‘* Balbentio—‘ Thou art a villian”.
lago—You are—a senator’’.

“*Senator’’?’ comes from Noel Shore, Hants County—
where the tide rises. An overseas man, a good student and
operator, he made a success of his college course at Dal. It
is beliéved that he will settle in Windsor and rumor has it
that he may take post graduate work at the Forsyth Institute
in Boston.

SYDNEY DILLON FLORIAN.

‘““When I said I would die a bachelor I did not
think I should live til I were married’’.

Sydney Florian hails from Sydney—a good combination.
‘‘Sid’’ had an envious record overseas and an excellent one
at Dal. Somewhat of a ladies’ man he always managed to
mike it a purely Dental affair. He also took an active interest in faculty affairs and was secretary of the Dental Society
in 1923.

MICHAEL FRANCIS HOGAN.
“* Benedict—the married man’’.

‘*M. F.”’ is a native of Carbonear, Nfld., who served with
the C. KE. F. in the Big War. A man of ability, he stood well
up in his classes. As a ‘‘rooter’’ for the Dal. and Dental
teams he was unequalled. A member of the famous Bache 

38 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

lors’ Club, he was ‘‘trainer’’ of the Dal. hockey’team and
president of the Dental Society in 1923. ’Tis odd, but there
is a persistent rumor that he will lead his class to the altar.

LIONEL BALMORAL ROOP.
“With much to praise and little to be forgiven’.

This native of Bear River early attended Acadia with a
view to theology, but came to the Dental College in 1919. He
is a quiet, likeable chap, who took an active part in interfaculty football and hockey and was also an able exponent of
various indoor sports. His ability and genial manner mean
for him a successful career.

FRANK MILNE BLANCHARD.
“She was very sweet I hinted—tf a kiss had been imprinted’’.

Dal. loses one of its most popular, best hearted, all round
good sports in ‘‘the aristocratic faculty’’ when Milne leaves.
Shelburne claims him, chiefly as a baseball player, for he has
been captain of the town nine for several seasons, At Dal.
first in Arts and later in Dentistry, he was an active party
in many spheres of college life, particularly athletics and
dramatics. All remember him as the bewitching Tung Waga
in ‘‘The Yokohama Maid’’. Milne will continue his profession
in Boston.

CYRIL JEREMIAH DOOLEY.
‘“Rare compound of oddity, frolic and fun’’.

As in the case of practically every other member of his
class, Cyril had an overseas record to be proud of. A native
of North Sydney, C. B., and a member of the Bachelors’ Club,
he was always active in the affairs of the D. A. A. C., and
much of the success of the Dal. hockey team was due to the
keen interest of Dooley. He was a good student, a good
fellow who will make a good dentist and a good citizen.

HAROLD HARCOURT HEAL.
**Doth ut not show vilely in one to, desire small beer?’’

‘Old Dear’’ as he was commonly called, was the recognized ‘‘Beau Brummell’’ of the class and an ardent exponent
of “Go to H—1’’ collars, academic costume and “‘The Dance”.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 39

Dentistry—Inter-Faculty Champions.

 

Back Row: W. G. Dawson (Forward); J. A. Tupper (Forward); G. M.
Logan,(Manager); J. C. Trainor (Forward); W. D. McLeod (Forward).

Second Row: R. R. Dalgleish (Forward); A. A. Dunlop (Full Back);
D. L. MacDonald (Half Back); R. G. MacGregor, Captain (Half Back);
G. V. Tunrbull (Half Back); D. E. Green (Half Back); G. R. Konig
(Forward).

Front Row: V. F. Clifford (Quarter Back); C. W. Morrison (Quarter Back);
F, M. Blanchard (Half Back); B. M. Shaffner (Quarter Back); A. M.
Sutherland (Forward).

Ponts: For, 27; Against, 0.

Born in Liverpool, he graduated from Halifax Academy
in time to enter the infantry. His next move was to the
R. A. F., where he served with distinction and returned to
Canada as captain. He was always a popular member of the
elass and a good student.

MERRILL ALLAN CLAY.
““Kiss her ! and leave her !—thy love 1s clay’’.

A veteran of the C. F. A. ‘‘Merle’’ ealls New Glasgow his
home town. He was always a general favorite at Dal., particularly in the social whirl, where he ably held his own at all
times. During his senior year he was manager of the University basketball team, in which capacity he showed considerable executive ability.
40 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

VICTOR CLYDE CALKIN.
“‘Men prize the thing ungained more than it 1s’’.

Though originally of. Woodstock, N. B., ‘‘Vie’’ spent
much time in Nova Scotia. He received his early education
at Kentville and attended Acadia for two years. Always the
chemistry wizard of his class and a wizard at all he touched,
he is reputed to be familiar with more ‘‘itis’s’’ than are found
in a medical dictionary.

WALTER LEON FLUCK.
‘*A man’s a man for a’ that’’.

For the years of his college course “‘Lee’” was the athletic hero of all the undergraduates—including the freshettes.
A native of the capital, he served overseas with the C. F. A.
The ‘‘Gunner’’ was captain of the football team and for several seasons a star defence player on the Dal. hockey team.
A giant in stature, who also used his head for something else
than as a battering ram, his presence on the football field will
be greatly missed. A friendly sort of chap, he was well known
and generally liked by all.

STEPHEN GEORGE McISAAC.
“*Young fellows will be young fellows’’.

The ‘‘Duke” spent a year or two at St. F. X. before coming to Dal. from his Sydney home. A star goal tender, he was
best known in hockey eirecles, being on the Dal. team for his
whole course and captain of the team in 1921-22. Admitted
to the Bachelors’ Club of ’23 he apparently fell from (or for)
Grace and had to pay the penalty. ‘‘Duke’’ however did not
forget his profession and well earned his degree. There is
considerable interest taken in his location, particularly by
hockey fans, but it is said that he is loath to leave ‘‘Judique’’.

NORMAN STANLEY MACDONALD.
“Spirits of peace where are ye ?”’

Born in Mainadieu, somewhere in Cape Breton, ‘‘Doc”’
was one of the most graceful figures in social circles, balancing tea in the most approved fashion, not to mention trays of
ice cream or hall clocks. ‘‘Doc’s’’ paradise must contain
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 41

plenty of porridge and sleep. His pet aversion was walking—
and here it must be said that this is the reason why the 3rd
Can. Div. did not march into Germany. ‘‘Doc’’ was a universal favorite and one for whom success is prophesied.

MICHAEL EDWARD MORRISON.
“*He doeth much who doeth a thing well’’.

_ ‘*Mike’’ was known at college before the war but he joined
the Dal. Unit and there he was best known by his highly polished shoes and buttons. There, as at college, he was thorough in his task. Quict and unobtrusive, he was not well
known outside his class, except to some junior students by
whom his assistance in the Lab. was always appreciated. His
professional career will reflect credit on himself and on Dalhousie.

HAZLETT SAUNDERS CROSBY.
“Perseverance gains its meed’’.

Crosby, H. S., otherwise known as ‘‘Corby’’, came first
from Yarmouth but now lives in Halifax. Before enlistment
in the C. E. F. he was on the staff of the Canadian Bank of
Commerce. At Dalhousie he always ranked with the leaders
and was usually one of the prize winners. For a number of
years ‘‘Corby’’ has been one of the best swimmers in the
Maritime Provinces and holds several records. He won a
place in the Canadian championships in 1921.

CHARLES BRYCE HANNAY CLIMO.,
‘“‘He was a scholar, and a ripe and good one”.

A Halifax boy with a splendid overseas record and a
D. C. M., Bryce captured the University medal in his final
year. His record throughout his course has been excellent
and he will bring credit to himself and his alma mater in the
profession. As with many other city men, he was not well
known outside the Dental faculty.

HAZEL ALICE THOMPSON.
‘‘ Though last—not least in love’’,

‘‘Spools’”’ is a native of Halifax and a general favorite
with all who know her. She was the only representative of
42, THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

the fair sex in her class. Her popularity was evidenced by
the many class offices she held during her course. A good
student and conscientious worker she will be a credit to her
profession wherever she goes. Her genial personality will
be greatly missed at the Dental College, where it was always
a debatable question as to whether her hair is redi or not—
though she stontly denied it.

The Engineers
CHRISTOPHER FISHER CAMPBELL.

“True patriots all, for be vt understood,
We left our country for our country’s good’’.

This little fellow slipped past the immigration authorities in North Sydney and wandered into Halifax, for the first
time, in 1921. Nothing ever seemed to worry him. Chris
serenely wandered in and then wandered out again. As intimated, he’s a foreigner—from Newfoundland—was born
and bred in St. John’s and attended St. Bonaventure’s College before coming to Dalhousie. Te was well and favorably
known among the Engmeers and at University Hall. Chris
intends to be an electrical engmeer.

JOHN DOUGLAS FRASER.
“For he was a jolly good fellow’’,

That ‘‘Doug’’ was popular with his class mates is evidenced by the fact that he was President of the Engineering
Society in his graduating year, besides representing that
body on the Council. Was Sec.-Treas. of the same society in
the preceding year and usually on an odd committce besides.
Ts a Halifax boy who always lived in the city. Attended
school there and passed through the Academy, after which
Dalhousie knew him. Graduates in Science along with his
Kngineering subjects and plans to study Mechanical Engineering.

JAMES ERIC MORRISON,

“Oh, young Lochinvar has come out of the west?’’.
e

Cumberland County has given many splendid boys to
Dalhousie and one of the finest is ‘‘Hezzie’’, Born and bred
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 43

in Amherst, he attended school and the Academy there, after
which he came to Dalhousie. From the first it was evident
that insofar as he was concerned, the Engineering course at
Dalhousie was not an unsurmountable obstacle in life, and
when he shared the Waverly Prize for ability in Calculus that
capped the climax. The troops doffed their derbys to the
possessor of such gray matter. Was secretary of the Engineering Society in his graduating year. Intends to become a
Metallurgical Engineer.

— 1

KENNETH ADELBERT MUNROE.
“Our heritage the sea’’.

‘‘Ken’’ was born in Canso, but now lives in Halifax.
This statement abridges his history considerably, for he has
attended school in Canso, North Sydney, Dartmouth and
Halifax. After this a session or two in Acadia Collegiate,
following which he came to Dalhousie. His record here
speaks for itself—in his second year he graduated in Engineering. Intends to study Mining.

GEORGE MacKENZIE SUTHERLAND.
“*None but himself can be his parallel”.

A husky Engineer from Malagash, G. M. Sutherland
usually answers to the name of ‘‘Red’’. His primary education was obtained in his home school and continued in the
far-famed Pictou Academy, After this he entered Dalhousie.
Was identified with football during his course, playing with
the Cubs usually, but also played Intercollegiate in Amherst
in 1922. To all appearances he was a quiet chap, but his playful ways in the drafting room will be long remembered. Losing bets on examination results was his favorite pastime.
Hopes to be a Mechanical Engineer when he’s a little older.

MURVALE BEVERLY VAIL.
‘‘Where are your gibes now? Your gambols?’’

In Engineering circles at Dalhousie, and also in Class ’24,
there was no better known figure than the one and only
‘‘Pansy.’’ He first saw the light of day in St. John’s, Nfid.,
some years ago, but now calls Amherst his home. Attended
school in the latter town and was also in Acacia Villa School
44 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

at Hortonville. From there he went to Acadia Academy and
then to Dalhousie. If anything unusual was going on, with
which the Engineers could be even remotely connected, Pansy
could be counted upon to have a hand in helping it to function
properly. Was a member of the Social Committee of the
Eingineering Society and proved his ability to manage theatre
parties and dances. Mining will be his chosen life-work.

RICHARD MASSEY WILLIAMS.

Massey was born in Halifax about twenty years ago, and
in Dalhousie was a likeable, blonde chap whose favorite indoor sport was Geology If. Attended school in the city and
from there went to King’s Collegiate, of which he still tells
stories. Was an active Engineer and served on the Social
Committee of the Society in his graduating year. Was also
prominent in Class ’24. He has aspirations to be a Mining
EKingineer.

LAURENCE INGRAHAM WILSON.

‘“My heart's m the Highlands,
My heart is not here.’’

‘Laurie’ hails from North Sydney. Born in that town,
and brought up in the atmosphere of Cape Breton, his early
ambitions were to be a street car conductor or a policeman.
However, as his wisdom grew with his experience, he changed
his plans, and after the necessary time spent in gleaning
what information he could from the schools of North Sydney,
he came to Dalhousie. Except for playing basketball on every
possible occasion, he never took a very active part in college
affairs, being content to get his work done and then view
some of the natural beauty across the harbor. He has designs upon an Electrical career.

PERCIVAL MAXWELL CASSIDY.

Born during the Reign of Queen Victoria at River John,
Pictou County, while its waters were frozen and a turbulent
spirit prevailed in the village, ‘‘Max’’ (as Dalhousie named
him) came here from Inverness in 1920. He was an ardent
student and one who took an active and enthusiastic interest
in college life. During his sojourn at Dalhousie he was President of Class ’24, member of the Social Committee of the
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 45

Engineers and a worker on the Gazette staff. Max also
achieved special distinction as a ladies’ man and jazz dancer
during his senior year. Those who know P. M. best believe
that ‘‘Cassidy’’ will be the name of a famous Irish-Canadian
engineer from this University.

GORDON GUILD BURRIS.

““Inm peace there 1s nothing so becomes a man
As modest stillness and humility.’’

A great chap not widely known in the university, Gordon finished the Engineering course in two years. He is a
native of Shubenacadie and upheld the honor of his home
country well while at Dalhousie.

FRANCIS WILLIAM HUBERT DENTITH.

Hubert was born at Dartmouth, N.S., but is now of Spryfield, N. S. Educated in two common schools in Manitoba,
four common schools in Nova Scotia, Chebucto High School,
County Academy and Dalhousie University, Halifax, he specializes in chemistry. He was on social committee of Engineering Society, 1921-22. During summers of 1920 and ’21 worked as chainman with Pickings & Roland, Halifax. In August
1922 he was appointed assistant instructor in mathematics
and chemistry at Halifax Academy where he ‘‘teaches the
young idea to shoot’’. He will enter McGill University in
the fall to complete his course in Chemical Engineering.

Arts and Science Graduates, ’23
GEORGINA LAMONT MacLEAN

‘‘But let my due feet never fail
To walk the studious cloister’s pale.’’

‘‘Georgie’’ is a product of Prince Edward Island, coming from Prince of Wales. All through her college career
she has achieved high honors in her studies, and she has
often been seen in the ‘‘throes’’ of an English thesis. She
belonged to the Cabinet of the Student’s Christian Association. Her perseverance and untiring industry will bring her
great rewards.
46 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Arts and Science Basket Ball Team

 

Winners of Inter-Faculty League, 1922-23.

Back Row: D. Clouston, W. H. Swan, I. MacDonald.
Front Row: J. Horne, W. Richardson, W. McOdrum (Manager),
W. C. Harrison (Captain), H. A. Frame, W. R. Hewatt.

ALICE EATON HUNTER

— — — — nobly plann’d
To warn, to comfort and command’’.

oé

No girl in ’23 has taken a more active part in college
life and activities than Alice. Her career at Dal. has been one
long list of positions, testifying to the general recognition of
her popularity and her executive ability. She was elected to
the Council twice, acted as Vice-president of the class in her
Junior year, then as the capable head of Delta Gamma. She
was elected life vice-president of her class and also class
prophetess.

Weakness (if any)—Lawyers and Engineers.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 47

ARTS—INTER-FACULTY HOCKEY CHAMPIONS

 

I. MacDonald (Defence), Parker Hickey (Mgr.), Don. MacInnes (Forward)
D. Clousten (Defence), Edgar Henderson (Goal), W. Creighton (Forward),
Ed. Bayer (Forward).

 

 

MARION JANET SMITH.

‘“‘Good nature 1s a happy quality
Possessed by her.”’

Everyone who knew Marion knew her genial smile, which
is simply an outward expression of that inward good nature
she is well known to possess. She is an interesting girl and
makes a very pleasant companion.

MURDOCH MAXWELL MacODRUM

Unfortunately there are too few men of the stamp of
Max MacOdrum attending Dalhousie or any other university.
His good qualities are many and his ability and willingness
to serve any good cause made him one of the leaders in college affairs during his whole course. He figured prominently
~=
48 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

in Students’ Council circles, played football, was president of
the S. C. A.,a member of the Gazette staff and a host of other
things too numerous to mention.

DAVID CAMERON COLQUHOUN

“Davy”, before he fell in love, took a very active part
in all social and other events in and about the university.
Since that date he studies Law and little else is known of him.
A native of Halifax, he served overseas with the artillery
and then returned to college. Incidentally everybody at Dalhousie knew ‘‘Davy’’. He also was a prominent member of
The Gazette editorial staff for several years.

ALICE GORDON HARVEY

“With gentle yet prevailing face,
Intent upon her destined course.’’

Alice was one of the shining lights of the class. She

entered as a Freshie-Sophette fram the Halifax Academy as
the winner of the George H. Campbell Scholarship. Year
after year her name was listed for high honors and success
awaits her in whatever career she may enter. She was very
active in Delta Gamma and few will forget her famous
pugilistie exhibition on the night that Delta Gamma entertained the Glee Club.

MARY GORDON CRANDALL
BA ds ies whose bright eyes rain imfluence.’’

Mary evidently believed in College Federation because
she first went to Acadia, then to the University of British
Columbia, whence she journeyed to Dal. to become a Senior
member of the Class of 1923. Here, in spite of her very short
sojourn, she will always have her ‘‘niche’’ especially in the
Library.

MARIAN ISABEL CLARK.

““Sana Mens in Sano Corpore.’’

Enter the good sport! Marian entered the Sophomore
year, coming from the Halifax Academy. She is an all-round
dependable girl and has as many friends as she has acquintances. She took an active interest in Athletics, particularly
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 49

basket-ball and swimming. She proved herself a splendid
leader, as captain of the Dal. Basket-ball team and also
shone in other realms as well. Remember her as one of the
chorus of the ‘‘Yokahama Maid’’, and a worthy member of
the Students’ Council.

DAN MURDOCH GRANT

South Side Boulardarie, C. B., claims “‘D. M.’’? A good
student, an able debater and a dependable class man his
friends will not soon forget him.

KARL KENTY.

Carl came up to Dalhousie from the Halifax Academy in
1919. Beyond this little is known save that rumour will persist that he is ‘‘a wizard at Physics.’’ There seems to be
some grounds, too, for Convocation Day saw himi ‘‘made one
of the Faculty’’ as holder of the McGregor Memorial Fellowship.

‘ RODERICK KERR

A quiet, clever chap and a loyal classman. Possessed of
exceptional ability he persisted im ‘‘hiding it under a bushel’’.
The legal profession may clear a space for another ‘‘light’’.

WILLIAM EVERETT MOSELEY.

Everett came to Dal. from the Halifax Academy, and
after taking his B. A. will continue to study Law. Everett
can show any person how to catch the Dartmouth ferry when
pressed for time. He is not one of the ‘‘noisy crew’’, but
he is well liked by his fellow students.

FLORENCE CURRY HOLLAND

Florence, a graduate of the Halifax Academy, gained the
reputation of being one of the most diligent workers of her
class. ‘‘Plucks’’ are things unknown to her, and she has
maintained a standard at which all would do well to aim.

COLIN CAMPBELL IVES

Colin also came to Dal. from Halifax Academy and was
subjected to the usual treatment meted out to the verdant
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

D0

‘uvaTIT P9109 usIIg.O eP[IH Swell “A ‘19qqeM Uuvof—juosg ‘IONDeP euuy ‘1oysqemM “A “dT
$ueIN “7D fq A'S ‘sAg) IuQIzIO “SoM HCAW (Seg) wWHIpO IVAW WW fCaM ‘Saq_) uyNsy Joresiepy ‘siopy eupy ‘ARO I9YyISY—pPUoIes
nyog ‘y ‘S {peay ‘a ‘HW fuewmdiyD “dD “mM SuospieyoITy ‘SC fozueyPPL “Y 'N ‘ueUaeg “y ‘gq ‘Aas8ng usaH SALI BWWonsieyy—yIn0g

 

 

NOLLVIOOSSV NVILSIUHO SLINAGOQIS—TONNOD AGNV GAIUNOAXY
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 51

group. He quickly proved himself a student of unusual ability, getting distinction in al subjects for which he did the additional reading. Colin is deeply interested in Philosophy but
intends to become a lawyer. His fellow students wish him
every success at Harvard, where he intends to study next
year.

JAMES ARTHUR FORBES

Arthur Forbes, who came to us from Pictou Academy,
was a clever student and a good debater. He entered into
the various activities of college life freely and confidently.
It is said of him that he is more at home in the Marlborough
Woods than in any other part of Halifax.

FRANK ELLIOTT ARCHIBALD

Frank Archibald is well named. He is one of the frankest
fellows in the University. His mop of curly brown hair and
his persistent good natured smile are not easily forgotten.
Although he is impetuous in speech and action his many
friends will testify that Frank is a genuine good fellow.

t

GEORGE MacKAY MORRISON

‘‘Skipper’’ George came to Dal. from Sydney. He was a
hard worker and took a keen interest in all college activities.
He intends to practice law, and will make a spendid lawyer.
Geo. was elected life sect’y. of his class, and this fact shows
how much is thought of him. He is also seertary-treasurer of
the D. A. A. C

DOUGLAS STEWART THOMPSON

‘‘Doug’’ one of Halifax Academy’s graduates has specialized in Government and Political Science, winning the Scholarship in that department. His class mates expect to hear great
things of him before long. ‘‘Doug’’ was president of the Arts
& Science Society, and leaves a splendid record at Dalhousie.

MARJORIE GRACE WAMBOLT
Grace, after taking her B. A., intends to study law. It is
evident that she thinks woman’s place is not necessarily in
the home. She was highly respected and well liked by her
D2 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

class mates, who wish her every suecess in her chosen profession,

HELENA AMANDA SANDFORD

Helene was a valued member of ’23, who also came to
Dal. from the Halifax Academy as a fair freshette. She has
been a faithful worker and has been rewarded accordingly.
Helen was one of the most popular girls at college.

CARL PALM BETHUNE

Whenever the Glee Club is mentioned, Carl’s name is always associated with it. As president of this society during
one of its most successful years, his untiring efforts ‘on behalf
of the club will long be remembered. Coming to Dal. from
the Halifax Academy, he early found his place among his
classmates, and proved himself to be a real student.

RODERICK HOLMES

A husky Cape Bretoner, good-natured to the nth degree
Rod was always welcome at Class 23’s meetings—but only
too seldom showed up.

HOWARD CHARLES GLUBE

Glube is another product of the Halifax Academy who
has made good at Dalhousie. He was always willing to work
in any cause-—-but especialy interested in class functions.

DONALD ALEXANDER FORSYTH

‘<The last of the Forsyths’’ would have graduated in ’22
if the lure of the Golden West had not proven irresistible.
One of the hardest workers in the college Don’s class mates
have great respect for him.

MARQUERITE ANNE MackKAY

Marquerite comes from Pictou and worthily upheld the
tradition of its famous Academy while in Dalhousie. A hard
worker with one pet ambition—Pine Hill and the Foreign
Feild.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE oo

ANNA WILLARD MacNEILU :

Anne was perhaps the most influential girl in the Med
and every bit of her influence was always on the side of the
best. She was prominent in all good activities, particularly
the 8S. C. A.

HARRY DOW O’BRIEN

Harry also came to Dal. from Halifax .Academy. In
after years if you have the misfortune to need the services
of a ‘‘eunning leech’’, he guarantees to cause less pain and
send a smaller bill than any other of his brethren in the
medical profession. He is a real student, and lets nothing
come before his studies.

OLIVE VELZIAN ATLEE
‘A Daniel! A very Daniel come to judgment!”’

Olive entered tee class of 1923 as a freshette, coming
from ‘the Annapolis Academy. She ‘wag ja distinguished
member of the class, and a veritable Cicero in a debate. In
1922 she was the victorious leader of the Dalhousie Girls’
Debating Team, and again, this year she revealed her oratorical powers in a contest against Acadia. Olive will be
greatly missed in debating circles and as Vice-President of
Sodales.

MARJORIE MARSHALL
““Common sense and kindliness and every modest grace.’’

‘‘Marj.’’ appeared asa Junior, coming shyly from Mount
St. Vincent. She is a good student and has taken an active
interest in athletics, being a member of the first basket-ball
team.

Good judgment and a large amount of that uncommon
article—common sense—are the chief characteristics of
‘““Marj’’.

LEONARD WILLIAM FRASER
‘*4 man of sense and talent’’.

‘‘Ten’’ hails from the famous town of New Glasgow. A
splendid class-man he soon worked his way into the larger
o4 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

sphere of college activities. As President of his class in its
Sophomore year, President of Sodales and Leader of the
University Debating Team in his Senior year and through it
all holding the Secretary-Treasurership of the U. 8. C., Len
well deserves the choice which has been made for next year’s
Prsident of the U.S. C.

CLIFFORD FRASER GRANT
“Embellished with good morals and just thoughts’’.

“Chff’? was one of ’23’s best students. Hard-working,
conscientious, he yet found time for class and college duties,
‘ having served two sessions on the U.S. C., and one as President of the class. His special interest lay in the Student
Volun‘eers.

KATHERINE STEPHENS FOSTER

““Her very frowns are fairer far
Than smiles of other maidens are’’.

“K’?, first started out at St. Francis Xavier but 1921
saw her arriving in Halifax and taking up her abode at the
‘‘Marlborough House’’. She rightly, became a member of
6993”, Though she was only here two years she has made
numerous of warm friends who hope to see her come back to
take an M. A.

DOROTHY JOHNSTON GRAHAM

‘A daughter of the Gods, divinely tall and most divinely
far’’.

‘“‘Dot’’? was one of Pictou County’s representatives in
the Class of ’23. She received her preliminary traming at
the New Glasgow High School and has realized her objective, namely, a B. A. Her name is invariably linked with
that of K. Foster’s and the “‘duo’’ have conquered many obstacles together and particularly Mathematics I C.

DAVID SUTHERLAND MacLEOD

A big, quiet fellow from ‘‘the Island’? who stayed at
Pine Hill during the whole of his Arts Course and seemed
only to move out when the whole caravan set forth.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE do

JOHNSON CHEW

‘The big man from Dominion No. 6—Class ’23’s Cape
Breton Giant’’. One of the best liked fellows in the class to
which he was so loyal. He intends to study Law.

MURRAY BRONSON EMENEAU

Class. ’23’s Rhodes Scholar. Well-liked by ‘his class
mates, but a little ‘too quiet, Murray engaged in his third
year in the Honours Course in Classics from which he emerged covered with glory and with the Governor-General’s Gold
Medal on ‘his chest.

ESTHER CRICHTON
“Veni, Vidi, Vici?’.

Truly Caesar’s words might also be said of Histher whose
progress has been one continual triumph. She came; and in
addition won a scholarship and every succeeding year attained scholastic honors. She has found time for athletics and
college life outside of her studies, having played as member
of the first basket-ball team for the last four years. She was
Vice-President of ’23 in her Sophomore year, a member of the
Students’ Council in her Junior year, and finally Vice-President of Delta Gamma.

MARGARET ISABEL KUHN
‘And hath not left his peer”.

The class of 1923 has no more hard-working member than
Margaret who throws herself heart and mind into what ever
she attempts. She was the capable and energetic Vice-President of the Senior year. Her main interest, however, was
in the Girl’s branch of the 8. C. A. of which she was the devoted and self-sacrificing president, who looked after the
many needs of the in-coming women students, arranged Bible
Study Groups and Conferences, ete. She is to take up Social
Service work and there is sure success for her in it.

HELEN ELIZABETH PUGSLEY

Helen came to Dal. from River Hebert, and was one of
the leading members of her class. She was much given to
worry over exam. results; but she did not need to, as her name
o6 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

appeared always on the right side of the line. She intends to
teach, and is sure to succeed, being conscientious and a hardworker.

HAROLD ROBERTSON

Harold is another graduate of the Halifax Academy. He
is going to be a doctor and all his class mates know he will be
a good one. Harold is a good pianist, and can often ‘‘drive
dull care away’’ by a little jazz. He never pushed himself
forward, but has great ability.

MARGARET FRANCES McCURDY

‘For she has much attained
For one so young’’.

Margaret is a girl who combines cleverness and studiousness so successfully that she is graduating with a B. Sc., at an
age when most people are just entering college. Her sweet
natured, easy going disposition have made her a general favorite.

Arts and Science ’23 Class Yell

Chicka-lacka, chicka-lacka
Chicka-lacka-chee!
Arts and Science. Dalhousie!
Boomer, boomer,
Boomer-ee!
Hoorah! Hoorah! Twenty-three!

Three Graduates In Commerce

The first to reach the goal in the youngest faculty in the
unwersity.
MARY JUANITA O’CONNOR.

Juanita has earned a high place, not only in her own
class, but among all students, by her literary ability. In Miss
O’Connor, Canada has a poetess of whom in future years she
will be proud. Although graduating a Bachelor of Commerece, all hope that the business world will not take up all
her time. She was a student of unusual ability, and a valued
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE o¢

member of the ‘‘Gazette’’ staff. Juanita also had the unique
honor of being the first Dalhousie graduate in Commerce.

OSBORNE RANDOLPH CROWELL, B. A.

““Ossie” as he was sometimes called always impressed
one as a man of affairs. He was one of the first students to
enter the Faculty of Commerce and took a very active part in
the Commerce Society since its inception, being president one
year. Besides being already a business man, he had a good
record overseas and if his college career is evidence he will be
a successful man.

HIRAM CLINTON MUIR.

Clinton is among the first to graduate from Dal. A
Bachelor of Commerce. He was a thorough student, quiet in
manner, with more than average ability. He was an athlete
of note being for several years a prominent scorer on the
basketball quintette.

Athletic Review, 1922-1923

7TSHIS has been a truly notable year in Dalhousie athletic
history. Not only in suecessful winning, but in a constant
adherence to the canons of good sportsmanship and unwavering loyalty to Dalhousie tradition have by both those skilful
enough to make the teams and those whose lot it was to take
the less active but important role of ‘‘rooters’’ been a constant expression of real Dalhousie spirit at its best.

With a really excellent playing field at Studley, made
possible through the good graces and practical assistance of
the University Sports Advisory Committee, players new and
old turned out in large numbers at football practices and provided Coach Dickey with plenty of material for the team. At
the home games, both City League and Intercollegiate, which
were played at Studley, the new grand stands were filled to
‘(prens)) JBL “Lb “a *(preazo.g)
IM ‘ODO ‘'H ‘(paeny) ‘gdeo ‘104809 “Gy f (premio) WOSsTIM “OD “D f(eqjueg) JueIy “Wf : MOY WOT
‘(prenyy) wnszpOoswy, “DH ‘(aesveuey) ABIO “VY “Wf (przemstog) Jape] ‘[ “y : Moy yoeg

 

Fr

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

THE

08

 

wes], [[eqeyseq AjIsreAluy—)
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

o9

overflowing, and it was not long before the entire cost of the
new playing field was completely met.

Dalhousie’s ‘‘fifteen’’, with Captain ‘‘Dinty’’ Moore and
Manager ‘‘Charlie’’ Baxter at the helm, won the Eastern

STEADY!

SEN

te
te
uw
ed
We

ee

 

LD ae yy

LEILA

One of the many balaneing feats
performed by W. E. Sterling, physical director (above) and H. Livingstone, Engineering (below).

Intercollegiate title and rretained the Maritime Intercollegiate championship by holding U. N. B. to a tie in the
play-off. In the City League
the Wanderers Won a victory
after a series of thrilling
games.

At hockey, as far as winning championships was concerned, the football record
was repeated in the Eastern
section, and in the play-off
for the Dennis Trophy, emblematic of the Maritime
Intercollegiate Hockey Championship, Dathousie defeated
U. N. B. deeisively. This is
the third time in succession
that Dalhousie has won the
Dennis Trophy. Thus the
Gold and Black is entitled to
permanent possession. The
trophy has not yet been presented.

Captain ‘‘Duke’’ Melsaae
and Manager ‘‘ Charlie ”’
Beazley did their best to repeat last year’s win in the
City League. but were handicapped by lack of substitutes.
The Dartmouth ,‘‘sexitette’’
won this championship after
a close contest with the Wanderers. Dalhousie was third.

Ronald Forbes and ‘‘Jack’’ Nicholson, as assistant managers of the football and hockey teams respectively, did good

work for their Alma Mater.
60 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

In basketball the Varsity ‘‘five’’, captained by ‘‘Ted”
Coster and with Merle Clay as manager, had a successful inter-collegiate tour and put up a good fight in the City League.
The Dalhousie girls lost one game to Acadia and defeated
them in another. Acadia had the margin on points and thus
took the eup back to Wolfville with them. Marion Clarke
made an excellent captain.

Outstanding among the records of the year was the work
of Mr. Sterling, the new Dalhousie Athletic Director and Instructor in Physical Education. Although handicapped by
lack of equipment, his work with the students cannot well be
characterized as less than remarkable. The display of gym. hastic ability and skill given by Mr. Sterling and his pupils as
the program at the annual meeting of the Glee Club in April
spoke more eloquently than can mere words of the value and
efficiency of his services.

Among this year’s graduates appear the names of several of Dalhousie’s best athletes. In Dentistry there was 8S. E.
“Duke” Meclsaac, this year’s hockey captain, and one of the
best goal tenders in the country; and Leon Fluck, who holds
“‘D’s’? and a Distinction Cap in both football and hockey and
who was football captain in 1920.

In Arts ’23 was M. Maxwell MacOdrum, who won his
football ““D”’ in the scrummage of the ‘‘Tiger’’ fifteen. In
Law there was the veteran N. A. M. ‘‘Larry’’ MacKenzie,
known familiarly when on the gridiron as the ‘‘Old War
Horse’’. He was football captain for a season and held down
a position in the scrummage all through his Arts course as
well as during his Law course.

Student’s Council Finances

As Secretary-Treasurer of the Council of the Students
I wish to submit the following statement of the receipts and
expenditures of the Council and the various clubs under our
control during the term 1922-23.

Total Receipts ........ 0... cee ee eee $8141 .00
Total Expenditures ................005. T5719 47
Balanec:::..).5.0......e. aa. ge. $ 561.53

Of the above balance it is estimated that $335.00 will be
expended on the graduation issue of the Gazette.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 61

The separate accounts of each club as follows:
STUDENTS CoUNCIL

Gross Expenditures .................. ..$ 646.61

Grose Receipts: ..-.0 0) 21 eh tae. 5090.50
D. A. A. C.

Gross Expenditure .................00.. $3977 .06

Gross Receipts ........... 0. cee eee 2326.33

eT PeNGMUTE we... Or. ale. ee ee eee 1650.73
GAZETTE

Net Expenditure .:2......60..6...2.006. le. $735 00

The receipts of the Gazette are handled by the Business
Manager.

SxatTine Cius

" Gross Expenditure .....5..0......0 cee eeee $623 .25
Guts maeceeipis “Stent. ».-..S.....)0%. a hs 16.86
SoDALES
Gross Expenditure ....... 0.0... cece ee eee $382 . 23
Gross Receiptandt.44).4 tore... once. Jae fe 81.08
Wot" Wxpenditame », fo: 2.5... | eek et me 301.15
GLEE CLuB
Gross Eixpenditure ...............0000 cee $526.57
Gross Receipts ......... 0.2.02. cece ee eee 440.04
Net Expenditure ......... 00.0... cece nes 86.53
D. G. A. C.
Gross; Expenditure)... i. 0). .n).5.8 0.54. $228.00
Gross Receipts .. 2... 0... eee ee eee 86.25
Net Hixpenditure ............ ccc cece eens 141.75
DeLta GAMMA
Net Expenditure ........0 0.0.0.2 .00 000 eee $209 .00

No Receipts

Girus 8. C. A.
Net Mixperditure alee. to. AR $151.75
No Receipts

Loan Account D. A. A. C.

Gross Hixpenditure ...................0.. $100.00
Gross Receipts ........ 0.0.0... ce eee eee 100.00

Ineluded in the total expenditure and in the Gross expenditures of the D. A. A. C.is Morton & Thomson’s bill for
62 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

$491.78. This bill on account of not having been properly
submitted has not been paid.

On behalf of the Couneil I wish to thank the officers of
the various Societies for their efficient work and cooperation
during the past term.

(Signed) L. W. FRASER,
Secretary-Treasurer,
Council of the Students.

Oficers of Sodales Society Elected |

At the annual meeting of the society held shortly before
- the end of the term, the following officers and executives were
leeted for the year 193-24:
Honorary president—Dr. R. MacGregor Dawson.
President—S. Gilchrist.
Vice president—Miss May Linton.
Secretary treasurer—Mr. Morton.
Executive committee—Messrs. Hamilton, Sedgewick,
Logan, Creelman and Fraser.
Intercollegiate committee—Professors Wilson, Munro
and Hunt and Mr. Walker.

D.G. A, C, Annual Meeting

After a somewhat inactive year, the Dalhousie Girls’
Athletic Club has plans for a revival of sports next year.
Basketball was practically the only line of competitive athletics in which the girls took part during the term although
some of then attained high rank as pymnasts under the direction of Mr. Sterling, the physical instructor. In 1923-24, it
is proposed to promote both ice and ground hockey in addition to basketball and also volley ball, indoor baseball, tumbling and gymnastic dancing. Managers were elected for the
proposed ice and ground hockey teams.

The following officers and managers were elected:
President—Miss Eva Mader.

Vice president—Miss Carol Hawkins.
Secretary treasurer—Miss Anna Grant.
Basketball manager—Miss Elinor Barnstead.
Tee hockey manager—Miss Gertrude Mills.
Ground hockey manager—Miss Edith MacNeill.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 63

Graduates

Rudolf A. Clemen, M. A. (Dal. ’14), associate editor of the
National Provisioner is the author of a book entitled ‘“The
American Live Stock and Meat Industry’’ which admirably
fills a void which was known to exist for some time. Few and
only feeble attempts had been made in the past to record the
history of this great industry, an outstanding example ie
progress and scientific efficiency. Mr. Clemen’ s book is
comprehensive work, dealing with all the many phases of the
industry, has 872 pages and is fascinating reading which is
remarkable for a publication of this nature.

A. note was recently received from Rev. J. A. MaeKeigan,
to the effect that he is located at Moose Jaw, Sask. He is a
Dal. graduate from whom a word is always welcome; also he
was an editor of The Gazette in 1908.

Rev. John A. Logan, D. D., registrar and librarian at
Westminister Hall, Vancouver, B. C., recently renewed his
subscription to The Gazette with a note that it was ‘‘an old
friend of 50 years standing’’! About that many years ago
he was connected with the staff. Dr. Logan is still chiefly
interested in the doing of the Dal. football fifteen as he was
president of that club for two years during his eollege course.

The Lexicographer

In hght of the recent wonderful advances of science, bobbed hair, and
sport-model spectacles, the conclusion has been reached that certain sections of the Dictionary should be rewritten; consequently the following is
submitted as being more ito the point, in many cases, than Mr. Webster.

. A
Adamant, From Adam’s Aunt, reputed to be a hard
character. Hence, anything tough or hard.
B

Bower,—A shady retreat, in general.
Bowery, A shady retreat in New York.
Brace, Security for the trousers.
Bracer, Security for the stomach.
D
Den, A cavity.
Dent, To ‘punch.
Dentist One who punches the face cael fills cavities.
Dream, What a man may call a woman. Sweethearts are
64 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

dreams because they seldom come true; wives because
they’re often a night-mare, and both because they go by
contraries.

Kgg, A wholesome, yet foul, product, of no use until broken.

Feint, A pugilist’s bluff.

Faint, A woman’s bluff.

Gown, From Lat. gaudium, joy. A thing of beauty and a joy
forever.

H

Husband, The next think to a wife. From Eng. Hussy, and
bond, tie. Tied to a woman.

Ice, A substance frequently associated with a tumble in
winter, a tumbler in summer, and a skate the year
around.

Laundry, A place where clothes are mangled.

Lent, A church fast that is slow to go; something loaned
which is slow ‘to come back.

M
Magnate, One who can float capital in a considerable body of
water. From Lat. magnus, great, and nator, to swim; a
great swimmer.
Miracle, A woman who won’t talk.
Mitten, Something a tender-hearted girl gives a young man
when she knows she’s going to make it chilly for him.

O

Obesity, A surplus gone to waist.

Oven, The only sport who enjoys an equally hot time with
or without the dough.

Pawn, To keep property in the family by leaving it all with
an Uncle. :

Policeman, A never present help in time of trouble.

Polyglot, A parrot that can swear in several languages.

R

Rhetoric, Language in a dress-suit.
Rust, Physical dullness.
Rustic, Mental dullness.
S
Sailor, A man who makes his living on water but never
touches it on shore.
Snore, An unfavorable report from headquarters.
Spinster, An ember from which the sparks have fallen.
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 65

T
Tennis, A game in which the participants enjoy a racket on
the side and raise the deuce over a net.
Tobacco, A nauseating plant that is consumed by but two
creatures, a large green worm and—man. The worm
dosen’t know any better.

 

5 TRO 2 rym 2
never grow old-fashioned nor out-of-style.

Birks trophy cups—made
in our own workshops
3 —are of generous weight
and skilful workmanship.
| that Talis Oe of pride “They have the added
to the wrener advantage of a moderate

! price.

       
   
         
     
       
 
     

Ae a our latest Trophy
; up folders will be mailWe welcome comparison of our ed on request.

prices with goods of equal quality

 
     
   
 
 
 

  

Goldsmiths
Silversmiths

 
 
 

Henry Birks 6? Sons Limited

  
66 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Tongue, An unruly members that is frequently put out, yet
an artist who’s a hard worker at the palate and a great
wag among women.

Twins, Insult added to Injury.

Y

Yawns, The air-breaks on a sleeper.
Yellow Fever, A passion for reading the Hearst newspapers.
Yolk, The legacy of a hen and the burden of its lay.

The Friends you Make

HEN you leave your Alma Mater and embark upon
a business career—you will take with you college
friendships that may prove of immeasurable value

to you in after life,

 

One friendship which you should cultivate during
your early years, may determine largely your success in
later life—the friendship of a progressive Bank. Your
relationship with your Bank may concern you little now,
but it will mean much when you become a factor in the
business community.

A steadily growing account with a progressive Bank
will prove a valuable asset to the young man whose
ultimate goal in life is—Success.

The Royal Bank of Canada

700 Branches—-Every Branch a Savings Bank

 
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Q.E.D.

“< HOW me,”’ says the math. teacher—and
S when the chalk clouds have settled down
there area lot of figures signed ‘‘Q. E. D.”’

which aren’t ‘‘Q. E. D”’ at all.

Say ‘“‘Show me’’ to the shaving cream you’ re
using and see what answer you get. Will itsoften
your beard right down to the base before the
breakfast bell has rung twice? Will it leave your
skin smooth and supple after every shave and give
you the well-groomed look of perfect skin health?

Every day men are finding how much easier
shaving can be made because of the speed and
thoroughness with which
Williams’ softens the
beard. Likewise, they are
finding. a help for their
skin in Williams’ that they
never found in any other
shaving cream. Try it
yourself. The difference
may surprise you.

 
 
 
 
 
    

67
68 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Gauvin & Gentzel

18 Spring Garden Road

Photographers
GROUP WORK
A SPECIALTY

ELITE STUDIO
Phone Sackville 692

 

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY
1088 to 1090 Barrington St.

 

 

A. & W. MacKinlay

LIMITED
PUBLISHERS, STATIONERS

AND MANUFACTURERS OF
LOOSE LEAF OUTFITS.

Depot for Swan Fountain Pens

College Paper Stamped from Die.
135-137 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX

 

Cut Flowers, Bouquets

and all Floral Work

——$——$

Exchanges

The Gazette acknowledges with thanks receipt of the following
publications during the
past year:

The Gateway, Sheaf,
McGill Daily, Varsity,
Argosy Weekly, Xaverian, Athenaeum, Brunswickan, Trinity University Review, King’s College Record, Red and
White, Maritime Students’ Agriculturist, Normalite, The Student,
Merchistonian, MacDonald College Magazine,
Presbyterian Witness,
Mitre, Western U Gazette, Managra and a
number of others.

Our contemporaries
deserve credit for their
general excellence.

Acknowledgements

The Gazette wishes to
acknowledge receipt of
subscriptions from the
following:—Mrs. E. J.
Richardson, Misses J.
Violet Murray, Isabel
MacLellan, Hon. W. 8.
Fielding, Dr. Florence
Murray, Miss E. Fraser,
Messrs. Walter Mitchell,
ken, G. EH, A. Rice, Jas.
W. E. Aitken, E. M. AitA. Maxwell, Geo. DeW.
Young, A. O. MacRae, I.
C. MacKie, W. 8. Thompson, Prof. D. MacIntosh,
Rev. J. A. MacKenzie,
Miss Jean Forrest, Dr.
Ross Millar.
   
   
   
 

 

 

  

 
 
 

R. J. LEARY
THE CLEANER
Cor. Argyle and Sackville Sts.

Summer is here at last and you
should be prepared for it.

$2.00

is our reduced price for Dry-Cleaning
a Suit or Top Coat.

Phone Sack. 2054

Our Driver will call.

‘YOUR DRUGGISTS
MACLEOD & BALCOM

LIMITED
SOUTH END PHARMACY

Morris Street.

WEST END PHARMACY
Spring Garden Road.
NORTH END PHARMACY

Young Street.
LORNE PHARMACY
_ Agricola Street. _
OXFORD PHARMACY

Quinpool Road.
“Five Places of Safety”

Your Educati

| ion
is not complete if confined to
printed books and lectures.
Visiting the interesting and —
popular places in every city ~
helps a lot.

We know of no place more popular
or interesting in Halifax than

———THE

New Green Lantern |

 
  
   

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| STUDENTS!

TERM 1923 -- 1924!
We will be more complete
than ever in

STUDENTS’ SUPPLIES.

Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd.

Commercial Stationers

160 GRANVILLE STREET, - HALIFAX

| BOB JOHNSON’S |

BARBER SHOP

ENJOY A SHOWER BATH

OR TUB.
SHOE SHINE PARLOR.

LADIES’ SHAMPOO PARLOR
IN CONNECTION.

Ladies’ and Gents’ Manicuring

Majestic Theatre Building

YOUNG MAN’S STORE

—

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and imspect our stock
before purchasing.

W. F. PAGE. "50

HALIFAX, N. S.

 
 
