     

—_—_
 

 

 

 

Dal versus Kings in
English Rugby

Wednesday

Afternoon

 

Vol, LXXXI

 
   

‘

 

(

* *

 

* *

yi

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

  

 

HALIFAX, N. S., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1948

 

 

E ON NAVY AND KING’S TEAMS WEDNESDAY

* *

Gazette’s Hot Tip of
the Week — 3-8801 —

New Sherriff Hall

Phone Number

 

 

No. 6

 

____ New Sodales System Features

Oxford Union Style of Debating

—Gazette Photo by Richter and Marshall

A SOUND MIND IN A SOUND BODY—Holly Fleming (above) is Mr. Leslie Pigot’s choice for the leading role of Lady MacBeth in the Glee Club’s forthcoming presentation of “MacBeth”’. Miss Fleming is
shown in a concentrated study of the script as she prepares for her difficult role. Playing opposite her as
MacBeth will be Art Hartling, who has starred in former Dalhousie dramatic productions.

 

  

  
 

Alumni To
Hold Smoker
In Dal Gym

The Dalhousie Alumni Association Smoker, an annual campus
affair for stags, will be held this
year on Thursday evening, October
28, in the Dalhousie gymnasium at
8 o'clock,

G. R. Smith, Dalhousie Alumni
Association president, is hopeful
that this year’s smoker will he as
successful as the one held last
year. The affair last season was
enjoyed by all, and turned out to
be one of the most popular of the
extra curricular activities. Free
smokes are always passed out and
the under-graduates are given a
chance to meet some of Dal’s most
prominent graduates. Last year
members of past Dalhousie classes.
told of the early days on the campus and all Dalhousians joined in
singing favorite songs. The male
chorus entertained with some close
harmony, and Dr. Kerr addressed
the group in a short talk that was
carried over C.H.N.S.

This year’s stag is expected to
follow along similar lines with
songs, entertainment, free smokes
and refreshments, and good fellowship being the features of the evening. All male students are invited
to attend the smoker. They need
only appear at the door to be ad
    

mitted.

Canadian Social Service Research Council
Offers Pre-doctoral Fellowships to Grads

The Canadian Social Science Research has received a grant from

the Rockefeller Foundation which 
enables it to offer a limited number
of pre-doctoral fellowships.

The minimum sum for these
fellowships is $750.00, plus allowances for fees an dtravelling exances for fees and travelling exexceed 1500.00.

To be eligible for these scholarships candidates must have completed at least one year’s post
graduate work. Preference, will,
of course, be given to those who
will be enabled to complete their
work through the help of the
grant. The fellowship will enable

the receiver to complete his postgrad work at an approved institution, or, if such has been completed,
it may sustain him until completion of his thesis.

Four of these fellowships have
been awarded in 1948. It is not
expected that a fellowship will be
awarded a second time to the same
person,

Furthermore information may be
obtained by writing to the following address:

John E. Robbins, Secretary,
Canadian Social Science
Research Council,

166 Marlborough Avenue,
Ottawa, Ontario.

 

Dalhousie Brass Band Blows Bravely As Drum
Majorettes Twirl Batons To Bolster Spirit

Complete with drum-majorettes,
Dalhousie’s brass band, which scored such a hit last year, is again out

in full force. Although they have
only played at three games so far
this season the band promises to be
one of the finest seen at Dalhousie
in over a decade.

The band this year is under the
able direction of Malcolm Parks,
with Lester Page as manager. The
band, in addition, has a complement of twenty-eight musicians
and two drum-majorettes.

The following students are play
ing with the band this year: Andy
Atkinson, Bob Brown, Cyril Bugden, Denne Burchell, John Bustin,
ill Christie, Dave Flewelling, Ernie
Heighton, Keith Hoyt, Bill MacDonald, Malcolm MacQuarrie, Les
Page, Ian Palmeter, Malcolm
Parks, J. A. Petrie, Ron Ripley,
Don Ritcey, Gordon Ritcey, Doug
Rodwell, Bernal Sawyer, Les
Single, Don Smith, Fraser Smith,
Don Theakston, Bub Troy, Bob
Ward, A. Warren, and Serman
Zwicker. The twq drum-majorettes
are Shirley Hines and Adela Vergara.

 

And Lectures on Public Speaking

x *

*

Sodales’ new debating schedule will start next week
when Arts and Science and Law teams meet on Thursday
night in the Arts Building. The resolution is Resolved that
Russia today constitutes the greatest menace to world peace.
This will probably be the most interesting debate of the first
few weeks, not only in the subject, but in the fact that Arts
and Science or Law have usually monopolized the Bennett

Shield, and are old rivals in debating.
eh ee

Oxford Union Style

 

The principal feature this year is | wre

the introduction of Oxford Union|
debating to replace the old formal |

method that has been used here for |
long, The GAZETTE recom-|!—

So
mended the change some years ago |
when it became obvious that the old
form of debating was becoming unpopular, and that the attendance at
debates was so low as to hardly
justify the use of the University
room for holding them.

The new style is far freer than
the old, and allows discussion from
the floor to take up as much time
as the scheduled speakers, thus
bringing in more opinion than was
possible before.

The period of speech from the
floor normally occurs before the
speakers have delivered their rebuttals, so that they generally influence the outcome of the debate
considerably. The time for the
speeches will, be limited in order
that as many as possible will have
a chance to speak.

Public Speaking Lectures

Combined with the debates will
be the new series of lectures on
public speaking. The schedule of
these has not yet been received,
but it will probably be published
next week. This is another new
feature introduced by this year’s
Sodales executive, with assistance
from the University, which should
prove a great source of instruction
in this most important subject.

It is hoped that as many as possible will turn out for the first debate next Thursday night; notices

(Continued on page 3)

Dalhousie To
Invade Acadia
This Weekend

On Saturday, October 28rd, Dalhousie students will once again
make their annual pilgrimage to
Acadia University. This year, as
in past years, a large representative group of Dal students are
expected to invade the Acadian
campus and uphold the traditional
rivalry enjoyed by both universities each year at the opening
English Rugby game at Acadia.

The English team, which has
been strengthened by many new
players, will be out to avenge the
defeat suffered at the hands of the
Axemen last year.

A new coach has been secured
for the team and it is expected that
Saturday’s game will surpass even
those of last year.

Final arrangements have not yet
been completed, but it is very prob
(Continued on page four)

 

 

ae

Liverpool U.
Confers Degree

On Dr. Hayes

Dr. F. R. Hayes, Associate Professor of Biology in Dalhousie, has
recently had the honorary degree
of Doctor: of Science conferred
upon him by the University of Liverpool. This degree is awarded for
original research work in a particular field, carried out during several years.

Dr. Hayes has published on the
chemical embryology of fishes in
the last fifteen years, during which
time he has had several graduate
students working with him. The
results of this work were submitted to the University of Liverpool in a thesis entitled: “Studies
on the Growth, General Chemistry
and Temperature Relations of the
Developing Salmon”,

Professor Hayes holds the degree of B.Sc. and M.Sc. from Dalhousie University and Ph.D. from
the University of Liverpool. In ad
Continued on page four

 

Fraternities Battle
For Med Correspondent

The Dalhousie Medical Society
met last night to consider, among
other matters, the appointment of
an official correspondent to the
Gazette. Up to now there have been
two men fulfilling this function
who were not satisfactory to one of
the fraternities. Another man had
been advanced who, however, was
not satisfactory to the other frat.

The Gazette, caught between the
two, is not quite sure whether it
has two med columns, one, or none
at all. Up to press time thére was
not word on the solution.

 
  
 

ere”
Ea
Te MS 5 a4 mY
oo ee ‘

i oe" (ee ie = a) Bs a
LHOUSIE GAZETTE

   
 
  
  
      
     
 
  

tr 7

  

a ie Ea 7
Di aeay aaa, Se
ey: 3 , Vey a ws Pf fs ?

 

aad t_|| TECHNICAL COLLEGE

Offers Degree Courses In | we
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, MINING,
CHEMICAL AND METALLURGICAL

Ten scholarships and thirty bursaries of $150 are offered to
: Nova Scotia students holding Engineering Diplomas

  

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLCATION

 
     
 
 

 
   

  
  

   
    
     
     
   

  
 
  
    
 

   

 
    
 
   
       
 
  

     
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

é " Pi . ’ Modern Equipment, Instructional Staff with Individual Experience
Rditors-in-Chief APPLY FOR CALENDAR
J. D. LUSHER. A. MOREIRA ALAN E. CAMERON, PRESIDENT
ee Managing Editor Business Manager : |
BRUCE LOCKWOOD ROBIN MACLEAN Saturday, Oct, 16 — Slept late
Seen) 4) i * * * * 1 this morning, in expectation of a “Heat Merchants Since 1835”
eg ‘ ; - hard night tonight. Have resolved '
Bi) IN CHARGE OF THIS ISSUE
Pa ue that I will attend the football game Saat ed
irae! vgs rts Featur

from across the Thames, wearing
new sky blue and orange suits,
play with the scholars from the college on the hill. It being mighty
cold, I shall wear nry new furlined suspenders, a gift’ from my
Uncle Dudley in France. Also, I
shall drop in at the Lady Hamilton before the sport commences,
and institute a small kick-off of

BRUCE LOCKWOOD
Reporters:—Barbara McGeough, Dorothy Saffron,
Mp ene = 8 . P. Simon, D. Soberman
_-- Photographers:—Enic Richter, Dan Soberman
. Assistant Business Manager:—Alfred Harris
AS te Printed by McCurdy Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S. oF

_ THE NEW BAND

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. 8.

 
   
 

  
    
    
    
 

   
 

 

 
 

 

f

Attractively set up departments

   
 
   
     

 
 
 
  
  

f Sa ee, aes “Awake Dalhousians, the spirit of music is running amok nur te th 3 :
ae again at Dalhousie.” That was the opening sentence of a a0 Sees thee ape Be Featuring— = ee
| ___ glowing report of the band situation which appeared in this bles ro RECORDS
Aes eauneay - newspaper’s columns Friday. nt ie way to the game in com- @

9 ong WEEE pany with John’s son, I met Pro- @ PIANOS

This was encouraging news. |

a) teh But a story on Page 1 of the same issue of the Gazette
| —s reported that no free refreshments would be provided at the
ss Geuncil Dance Oct. 22, “due to a requirement that the or
at

@® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES

Willis Piano Co. Limited 
     
 

fessor Twist-it, also proceeding to
Lady Hamilton’s rooms, where a
small party was being “held. We
did drink much, in a hurry too, and

  
  
  
  
     
    
  
   
  

   
  
   

ete Os aa -4)
Reg) sy a a t re tals talked a great deal of the atroci- 127 Granville St. (at Duke),
Pe ag oar The es + r the psc of demanding pay for the|™S. Writing now na HALIFAX, N.S.
foes G sane, TO ‘ " & De among English authors, and of re
  
  
   
     
     
     
       
   
   
   
   
     
       
   
    
 
  
 

__ _ Dalhousie orchestra has been placed on the mysterious, omni
ney | i tired soldiers, veterans of the late
-, potent, Union.

upheaval.

_

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
    
  

i rs on i J ; , :

| ~~~ However, when Don Warner was leader of the Dalhousie] "p. oie to th Ns D I O f f He

Reps Orchestra in past years, the Union difficulty was overcome. Sud toy a euwame ea a ours

«He provided two, and sometimes three, free dances. ; ; :

Tet a MS sets D : ae in no small part, I do believe, to the - h

A ea That ane alhousie spirit. nOFiss | i ty lta benefits of warm wine. Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the
Wendin 8% The spirit of music at pemey Re nO pp the adile Gis ‘bankas, whit -pleaahd ae .

| ———s ¢ampus obviously is not a Dalhousie spirit, but perhaps a ohn’ : M B | C ll
Pie wes ‘h nei nts should act. i" yey Se eee yn?
AS mS Pe mene " thanks be to God, I am once more 73 College Street

 

permitted credit, having arranged
to pay my debt there shortly. Did
find Thomas Sour becoming more
friendly toward me, and him saying that soon a party will be held
with the proceeds of a paper he
sells there. He is an exceeding
grasping fellow, but a good friend
of the scholars.

Students who do not desire.a complete course in any of the.
seven’ courses are admitted as General Students.

The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursday
7.30 to 9.30. ;

ee IT SHOULD BE DONE NOW
The University officials have been congratulated on
their fine display of cooperation and interest as a result of
‘the extensive repairs carried out to the Studley football field.
Beatie The President has stated that already expenses of repairing the playing surface have gone above the budgeted

]i. alas ;

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years

cs

Pts aipties. | : .
pike ba ay rae i. ‘ 32 Sunday, Oct. 1 Lord’s Day)— , iti i ion.
PAL Rot It is a commendable attitude on the part of the univer- oon or Mics 60 er ey Sey, Tuition: comets Enea Aare pe Sagemaratton
| sity authorities that they should continue to carry out re-| |, hess
Re ete d thd Mh coat at a dancing party which kept me
pt NE iy pairs, despite the high cost. up til late last night. My wife did EE OS ILE RE RY SP

  
   
  
 

oN However, there is still a great, and urgent need for con-:

ee ee ; . :
rl r ts, tes - en the field, and erection of adequate oi es j Me aoe § Salas Rats
foe ply . : hee oage's on’t look untidy
| ©. If these projects are not carried out, then the University oe bg Sap e way ae In college—It’s not funny
(Mite at ; ; ; pe e new expression goes, ‘Shucks, ;
Lee Brie? might as well have left the field as it was, or better still “ain't nothin’.” . 3 Always look spice and span,
|]  ___ leased it out in small farm lots. As a football field it will be| — cca Just like Schelew’s Bunny.
|  —__ useless without the fence and stands. potas een. see Where Bll Ene So look at the words
Maik ae In the past, objections have been raised to the placing of | @!K is that the artful Arcadians Written on my slate
| a fence around the field. “It would be unsightly,” one official under direction of Captain Belly, And follow their advice
Ox  gaid. and the Ecksaverians from Anti- kta So bath hate.
| Ope is td to ask mrt Taree
a ‘ : J : M- sp: / ~
ons Wherever heard of a football field without a fence? ead Seated ick be exioiah ts ie ae

If the university is to realize the profits of its investment in gridiron rehabilitation it must erect that fence.
_ And there is no alternative.

fright the Parliament and Premier
McCousinny.
In the street I talked with sev
Call at

DON SCHELEW’S

/ PT So et a ta
q eral girls from Marmalade Hovel f oe ‘
IT 1S NOT ADEQUATE who informed me, with impreca- Scientific and Odorless Dry Cleaning |
, tions, that Witless Weaselmyer, the | Plant: 40 Morris Street Branch Stone: 139 Hollis Street
a Students of this university are still faced with the in-| anti-social pole-climber, had been DIAL 3-84238
7 oS ee facilities and unpleasant surroundings of the gym| seen on ae post Ba the F ;
store. upper windows of the Hovel. I re- yi [ @ b .
uh Granted, the Canadian Institute for the Blind is one of|marked that it seemed liked old a houste Mt ersitp
our finer Canadian organizations. times to have him back, being Halifax, Nova Scotia
_ But it has no opportunity to act efficiently at Dalhousie. | much like the days when Jack the} © Largest Staff, Libraries, and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Institute is offered a’small, dingy, cave-like den in| Hugger was roaming the South The Faculty of Arts and Science
the basement of the gymnasium, and are expected to cater [Road. | enjoys ‘international distinction
; to some 1700 students. Also did hear that Henry Hellion, Degrees of: Diplomas in:
\ They can’t do it. \ who was a scholar on the hill last corny of Arts Engineering
Ma oh It is time the University looked around and became|season, has become a “geek” in a er eens : Education
ie go. ware of the cold, hard fact that the gym store is not even | travelling group of players, but be- Bachelor of Musici Music
a good excuse for what it should be. lieve there is no truth in it, for on Bachelor of Education Pharmacy
If the University could provide suitable space, there is|last word it was said he had gone Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
little doubt the Institute for the Blind could operate an effici-|to the colonies to join His Maj- Master of Science Mining Geology
: ent, and much more profitable and sensible cafeteria and | esty’s Forces. bint aiid coe Courses
book store. Fell into a discourse about bidaitre Sees ks the B.A. Goneae a selva al ip aati
«A. average about $186.00 a year

There’s no reason why the University can’t. snakes and rats, which I have seen in the B.Se, Course, about $236.00 a year

’ | i ‘ many of lately. Discoursing of the Twenty-four entrance scholarships, each of a maximum value
d | “ | | 8
| Letters To The Editors

   

 

nature of serpents, one told methat| of $600.00, available to students selected on basis of record of marks
some of them that grow in the| im quarterly and final examinations in any Maritime school or

. Junior College.
waste places of Lancashire do grow Many other valuable scholarships offered CS a

¢

 

 

Editor of the Gazette several different sources. The Pro-|to a great bigness (especially after
Daar’Sir: . vincial Government contributed for| parties), and that they do feed The Professional F :
r fh the partial cost of four students| upon larks, which they take thus; Law, Medicine, Dentistr a

: 7a 4 , . . : ; 4 . ; e *

eee ey, Regarding your editorial con-|from Nova Scotia. The Dalhousie They, observe when the lark is ei ers Sh ernie reputation.

me, cerning the International Students’ | Council of Students gave $150 for| soared to the highest, and do crawl Residences
oh Soe Service I would like to point out) the expense of our own delegates.|till they come to be just under-| Women students live in Shirreff Hall—one of the finest Women’s
L F * bette eee that was made. You men- Thanking you for your support in|neath them; and there they place Residences in the Dominion, Residence is provided for first year

_ tioned the idea of “free Trips”|the past and looking for your sup-|themselves with their mouth up- Br citi a two affiliated saan as oes fe

| which is not altogether true. The port in the future + in selected and a d
A) eh orale eh .: orn re, permost, and there as is conceived,| homes. Special accommodation is i : pprove
Ht Ji _ money for this trip was not taken I remain, they do edoet pyson up at the bird;| students. provided for married ex-service

  
   
   

| from the relief money collected Y ou Moule forall stan ke
PY (esto Se ake ea a SR pie ours truly, for the bird do suddenly come down eals for all students are available at the University.
ue alps _ from i eed students in the spring.| J. B. SAWYER, — |again in its course of a circle, and For full information, write to

: ciiee einen: fousfrom. _ Chairman, ISS Dalhousie + (Continued on page 3) : . THE REGISTRAR

, aL 7
Wien ta nal 4 OY ety het
va 4 td, ou Ps Hi a as Ol ft 1 €
~~, a é 4 Pte Tt

    

:

‘ a4
i “FSM i hc 3 
ae ey 9 se aes cess) od) tke

SSL Sey |. ee

rT

    

 

 

®

*

a

 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 

    
     
   
 
   
  

r ; vr f ii
es The i, eieck is - ihe" old| J
_ grind» again, Welcome to the first.
year class and I hope you have a|
successful year. .
Dr. J. S. Bagnall, ‘our dean of |—
Dentistry, has received a fellowship from the Royal College of
_ Surgeons in England. Only two of
its kind has been awarded in Can_ ada. Such an award is indeed an

   
 
 
 
   
 
  

. ‘ j
a le aE
J si,
Jie

  

m4
ava ©

TF

How Many ‘Dretins In Sitting

By NANCY ALLEN
“The play is the thing,” said Shakespeare. But he only

had a third of the truth. The other two-thirds belong to the’

actor and the audience, because a’good play without good
actors is weak and a bad audience (the kind that laughs and
giggles for its own amusement) makes any play impossible.
So the three important elements of Drama are the play, the
actors and the audience and among themselves they should be
able to create a complete work of art. Romething to freshen

=a af
ne co 4 ade

 

  
   
    
 
     
 
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
     
  
   

A :
i

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
    
  
  
        
   
  
   
 
   
  
    
     
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
    
  
 

ae
bs

honor to our university and num
bers Dr. Bagnall amongst its out
standing men.
Dr. J. Dobson has. heen appointed
professor of Dentistry and director

of the dental infirmary. Dr. Dob_ son has been a longstanding mem
ber of the dental faculty and his
appointment serves as a valuable
addition to the staff.

The dental students held a

smoker in the Men’s Common Room,

on October 6. Dr. Bagnall address
ed the Dents concerning future

responsibilities of the dentist.
Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs,
Baxter on the birth of a son.

We were sorry to learm that Dr.
Ritchie, a long standing and
esteemed member of the dental
faculty died September 7.

Sodales—

(Continued from page one)

will be posted as to time and any
change that may be made.

No schedule has been received
from the M.I.D.L. conference yet as
to Intercollegiate debating, but
will be published when it comes in.
A bigger league is expected this
year than, last, with a few new en
 

~ tries to swell the roster.

——

The Salmon |

By LEW MILLER

Four watchful eyes from the fishing craft
Survey the arc of wooden floats
To notice the strike of unwary fish
Or other drifting fishing boats.
Suddenly several floats submerge,
Two voices shout with one accord,
“A strike—a strike—By God it’s big:”
The boat is turned at once toward
The sunken floats that mark the strike,
And four gaunt hands drag in the twine
Till the silver sheen of the mighty fish
Is flashing through the murky brine.
“A salmon, by God,—and a big one too,”
A cheerful voice now loudly cries;
“Put the gaff in him, Jed, fore you take him out, _
Another anxious voice replies.
The gaff is held above the sea
And when the salmon struggles near,
Stirring and splashing and thrashing foam,

The fish is lifted in the boat,

A club is used to pound its head,
The net is freed and again at work

And soon the fish is almost dead:
And later when the day is spent
, Four weary eyes survey their prize
That lies among its smaller mates

And stares with rigid, glassy eyes;
Two weary, voices proudly say,

 

“By God it’s big.

Sam Peeps—
(Continued from page 2)

- falls directly into the mouth of the

serpent, which is very strange.

All the afternoon in the cellar
with the colliers, removing the
coles out of the old cole hole into
the new one which cost me prettily
but was worth the expense in that
I laughed at one of the colliers,
Wiggles Pilchard, who became coleblack. .

Monday, Oct. 18 — Up betimes,
hearing that Will Shakespeare’s
play, MacBeth, is to be acted by
the scholars—and I am afeared it
will suffer for lack of actors, there
being not many accomplished little boys to play the parts of ladies,

® SUPPLIES
Some say a monstrous youngster |
“with the voice of 4 lusty bull is tol] @ P@bEMENT Te NOVA SU.
Bay. the most tragic part of Lady oa |

meee.

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
     

   
  
 
 
   

ae Pe > oa Se
Soe

  

(Gazette Photo By Soberman)
ARRESTED MOTION—Pete Feron (12) of Dalhousie thought he was
off for a touchdown a split second before this picture was taken. You
can imagine his surprise when the Air Station tackler caught him
from behind—or you can look at the expression on his face.

Chea Arthurian Leqends
Chapter 1
Che Man In Midfield

A hastily gathered meeting of the Nights of the Round
Table convened at the fifth turn of the hour-glass in the
central Gasnoop office. The honourable members present
were no ordinary mortals at the time, being both of high
position and temperament.

o> The group met for the expressed
—~ purpose of discussing a crushing
defeat administered to Dullhousie’s
jousting team that afternoon, for a
visiting team fron the north had
won six matches without breaking
a jance. (Forsooth, such a catastroph would not have been perpetrated in my day. But, alas! I am
now too old and weak for other
work than as King Arthur’s. recorder.) %* ,

 

The meeting opened as the selfappointed Chairman, and the most
elevated person present, Sir Wind
MacKneel declared, “Never in all
my score and seven years have [I
seen such a joust.”

“Why,” quoth MacKneel, “does
not the central committee of Dullhousie employ district referees for
its games? |

Gasnoop investigator Sir Slush
Well rose to the defense of Dullhousie’s integrity. “Never let it be
said that we did not try. But the

ie Be foes tus Sareisg Pye scoundrels from the northern
1 Strikes and pierces its sturdy back, regions! ! ! the impudent apple
“Now watch him, Jed—he ain’t ours yet,” rrowers! ! ! the the they

Th Imon tries to shake the gaff; . SO gts pragt WEI hee

«deh oncaeate : stole a joust on us, as the saying

“Now heave him when I lift the net.” goes.”

“How did that come about?” inquired S& Rob Quill, looking up
dreamily from a mug of mead before him.

“Thusly.”” MacKneel explained.

“They hid among them one of their
most partisan supporters as they
rode out onto the jousting field.
Then quickly they trampled our referee under foot, covering him with
mud from the field such that he
could not be seen by the spec'tators.”
“Yea, but we had more referees
on reserve,” pointed out another
Gasnoop investigator, a namesake
of His Majesty. “They should have
been put. on to judge.”

“But you must not underestimate
the wile of the apple growers,”
quoth MacKneel. “As soon as they
had mudded our referee sufficiently, they sat their own man in

%

   

CASINO TAXI
Phone 4-1233

  
       
    

@

       
    
  
 

   
   
   
   
  
  
      
  
   
    
    
  
 

24 HOUR SERVICE

  
  
     
 

128 and 130 Gottingen St,

 

Meet your friends at

 

   

 
  
 

A Complete
PHOTOGRAPHIC
SERVICE its

a THE
Riviera Tea Room
85 Spring Garden Road

 
    
   

2
CAMERA § et
ang of the Maritimes ‘Ltd.

“DANCING
SATURDAY
NIGHT”

   
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
  

   
 
  

the imagination.

In a tragedy like ‘Macbeth’ the@—-——-———

audience must identify itself with
the movement of emotion. This intimate identification makes them
feel the powerful conflict in the
characters which the actors are
portraying. Comedy is something
else. It is a history of misfortunes
which the audience views objectively. There is a lack of identification on the part of the audience
and because of this lack, a feeling
of superiority. The difference between comedy and tragedy is all in
the way you look at it.

Bad plays are exciting for a
short time. They help us forget
what we do not want to remember.
They are artificially stimulating
and intoxicating. But like rum
punch or gin fizzes, the effect
wears off and we are left with a
headache.

A good play has balance, contrast and unity. Its object can be
summed up in a single phrase or
sentence. And it helps us to remember what is best remembered.
It makes us feel. The sweeping arc
of emotional experience can be distilled into a few words, like Macbeth’s in the murder scene, “I go—
and it is done,”

The actor should feel himself in
his part without losing himself in
it. He must learn to give himself
to the part and to the audience.
The more the actor gives, the better the actor he is. He cannot afford to be self-conscious or inhibited. And he must learn to stand

 

mid-field, and thereby had the advantage unbeknowst to” Use”

By this time, the meeting has
progressed to a hazy stage, since
most of the Nights had drunk their
full month’s ration of mead, which
is enough for any night’s carouse.

The Honourable MacKneel, however, had yet a remedy to offer in
the case of future jousting tourneys. “Why”, he asked, “do we not
attempt the same strate~em when
we attack the apple growers in
their district, and instruct our men
paint our name on the apple growers stands at the beginning of each
joust, thereby assuring that we win
the match, because they will score
for us.”

MacKneel leered triumphantly,

|

hammering his.mead mug on his |

stool, and looking around for praise
from the Nights, but their approval was too weak to be heard
through the clinking of mead mugs.

 

NEWMAN CLUB

On Sunday, the Dalhousie Newman held its first meeting of the
year. The election of officers and
directors,of the various groups was
completed, and the aims of the club
described to the new members.

Plans were made for a dance
during Noyember, and also for a
series of Communion Breakfasts.

 

FADER’
PHARMACY
LIMITED

STUDLEY DRUG STORE
29 Coburg Road

FADER’S DRUG STORE
141 Hollis St.

 

  
    

GAUVIN &
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS
and .
BLUE PRINTING

8814 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

|
|
|
|

|

 
   
 

 

still, to brdathe and to think, because there is no movement on the
stage without a motive. He should
not rush through his lines. Many
amateurs say their lines as if they
must get them out before the audience decides to rise and go.

And the audience has to cooperate intelligently and with some ’
understanding.» It should conspire
with the actors to produce the effect wanted. The relationship of)
actors and audience into one group
makes a perfect production possible.

The theatre is fun to watch and
fun to work in because people have
to make their own efforts to stage,
act and direct\the plays. And it is
good for them. This is a living
form of entertainment as opposed
to the eanned variety which comes
with the movies and juke boxes.

Dalhousie could improve its
dramatic standing by having a
workshop. All those students who
do not receive parts in the big productions would stillshave a chance
to learn something about acting
The Glee Club could arrange for a
series of lectures to be given to its
members, on singing and dramatics. A little background never
hurts. And some of the newcomers haven’t any. A few lectures would give everyone a general theatrical knowledge.

There are signs (we won’t mention what they are) through the
Maritimes that acting in the
legitimate theatre is coming into
its own. Why shouldn’t Dal help it
along by educating students into
the secrets of the Drama. And
while the rest of the world argues
about wars (hot and cold, long and
short, to be or not to be) Canadians can put their energies into a
cultural renaissance. And if the
atom bomb is to blow us to bits
then if it were done when ’tis done,
then ’twere well it were done

quickly.

 

  

LIKE THE NEW
HAIR DO’S

Your hair needs-to be properly
cut, permanent waved and
dressed.

We do them all properly and
distinctly at

HARRIETTES
BEAUTY SHOP

98 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Mills Bldg. — 3-7022

    
    
        
    
      

Give a

MACASKILL
PICTURE

MACASKILL’S

475 Barrington St.

   
  
  

   
   
   
 

Dal Students-
* A
A welcome awaits you at

456 Barrington St.

    
      

  
  
    
  
  
 

  
    
  
 

Where you will find a

complete Music Service

 
 
   
 

and the finest

Sports Equipment.

  
 
 
  

oi |

 

(Gazette Photo By Soberman)
x BOTH ENDS OF THE HORSE—And up in the air too. Bob Wilson, Dalhousie, is shown in the picture
above, tackling Air Station’s halfback Ron Hayter. In this unorthodox tackle, the idea, apparently, is to
swing the other player around until you both fly off into space.

BA fi
| Athletic Meeting Lines Up
Years Activities As people become resigned, or

That Dal will play in the newly formed city hockey) should I say assigned, to classes
league seems almost certain in view of the discussion held at|and work begins, we find student
the last DAAC meeting. John MacCormack, athletic director, | organizations commencing another
said that in view of the M.I.A.U. ruling it would be the best/year. The first meeting of the
thing for Dal to do. The league winner will play off against|D.G.A.Cc. was held last Tuesday
the Acadia-St. F.X. winner for the provincial title, but only |nite and was highlighted by Miss
strictly intercollegiate players will be eligible to compete. The|Keddy’s talk. Following Miss
the M.I.A.U. ruled that college

 

GIRLS’ SPORTS

by NOELLE BARTER

 

Keddy the various team managers

TH Far ;
Fm Laat vii " Te a Tj 7
os x yi Via Pe ell i= 3
ae 1 kus Te
‘ 3 ba
ms ew eAV ELIA } : 4} : \ * ,
j - ‘ 7 , nm , i
i : i i : 4
o(eaie 1a i +" . : y
; t; ihe i, ,
Lore i ‘ may ’ it Yo ;
; i ‘
* = 4
bu 4 ’ 7
» af ;
= 2 * *

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Deadly Basking Earns
Dal Second Win

Last Saturday, for the first time this season, Dalhousie
had a dry field to play on as they took the Dartmouth Air
Station to a 11-2 defeat. The sun shone brightly all afternoon
on the Tigers as they combined a surprisingly effective aerial
attack with Bob Wilson’s distance kicking to down the airmen. Air Station worked hard and at times had coach Burkhart worried with their successful line plunging, and ey

runs.

However the determined tackling of Dal ends Wood
ward and Brown limited their gains to small ones and the

Airmen were forced to kick for their only two points.

+
Because neither team could gain |

consistently for any length of time,
the game turned into a punting
duel, and the large crowd had to
get most of their thrills from the
brief flurries of action that produced the scoring. These, in general, were confined to the opening
and closing minutes of play.

Before many of the fans had
settled themselves in their seats
Dal aided by a break, had scored.
Bob Wilson, a tower of strength a
all day for the Tigers, recovered
his own punt on the Dartmouth 35
yard line when McLean fumbled
for the Flyers. Two running plays
gained five yards, and, on third
down after the Tigers had lined up
for an attempt at a field goal, Wilson faked beautifully and passed to
Pete Feron for a first down on the
Air Force 9-yard line. After Bob
MacDonald had been pinned for a
four yard loss on first down, Wilson swept wide around left end to
score the touchdown. Don Harrison’s attempt at convert was low.

Early in the second period, the
Airmen scored a rouge as Gordon
tackled Wilson in the Dal end zone

oe

Donald broke through center to
wind up on the Airmen’s 11. With
only a minute to play Paul Lee
passed to Pete MacDonald on the
goal line for the touchdown. MacDonald made a leaping catch to
Spear the pigskin and thwart the
swarm of opponents who were
hoping to bat it down. Paul Lee
then passed to Feron for the extra
point,

Bob Wilson was the running star
of the game and he along with the
two MacDonalds sparked the Tiger
attack. Siwatsky and McConnel,
along with a charging forward wall
which made possible Dartmouth’s
effective use of the delayed buck,
were the stars of the game for the
losers.

 

BASKETBALL NOTICE

There will be an Arts and Science Interfaculty Basketball meeting held at 12 o’clock noon, Tuesday in the basement of the Arts
Building. All those interested are
urged to attend in order that the

7

 

city league was formed when

players could only play for their college. Tech and St. Mary’s

‘Dal'is éxvected to join.

MacCormack ,in reporting that
the McGill game cost the university $1,000, said he had submitted
a group of recommendations to follow in games of that kind in the
future. This list included the purchase of rain insurance,

Don Woodward submitted a budget for the basketball team and
said that three trips were on the
team’s schedule at the moment, A
fourth to Mt. A. may be arranged.
A new coach will be hired to tutor
the junior basketball team, but a
definite choice has not yet been
made.

A four team inter-faculty English rugby league will shortly be in
operation, it was announced by
Frank Rogers, inter-fac rugby
manager. Teams from Law, Medicine, Commerce, and Engineering
will be the competitors.

With Dal host to three Maritime intercollegiate championships,
badminton in February and swimming and boxing in March, the
university should realize a sizable
profit, especially from the boxing,
In boxing, Gold and Silver trophies
will be awarded to the winners and
runners-up, respectively, it was decided.

 

LETTER FROM McGiLL

The following is taken from a
letter John MacCormack received
from Bob Stevenson, the manager of the McGill team which
played here a week ago.

Dear Mr, MacCormack:

As our players reassembled for
practice ldst night, I noticed that
the talk was not of the Senior
team’s victory at Kingston, not of
the Intermediates’ victory in Montreal, not even of oyr victory in
Halifax.

The lads were telling only of the
astounding reception they had received at your hands, and their
thoughts were mainly for the gen
- erosity and hospitality with which

they were greeted on the week-end,
Their talk of the game was on stan
dards of sportsmanship. Would that

_ then formed the city league which has no eligibility rules, and

Qe eels ae ne ns Me led en ene

o Coach...

Denton Large, the newest addition to Dal’s coaching staff has
Said that considering the wealth of
material available, Dal will improve
beyond recognition by the end of
the season. If anyone is qualified
to make such a statement it should
be Mr, Large for with 24 seasons
of English Rugger behind him, he
knows the game inside out, and
Should be a capable judge of football ability.

 

all our opponents set theirs as
as Dalhousie does.

One and all keenly appreciate
everything that was done for them
and the work that you and your
cohorts, such as Boudreau, Miller
and McCurdy put in for the sake of
their comfort.

{ can’t thank you enough, nor
can I remember the names of all
those to whom I owe thanks.
Would you please do it for me and
the rest of the team?

Many, many thanks again for all
you’ve done.

Yours sincerely,
Bob Stevenson,
Student Manager

high

 

|

spoke briefly on their relative
sports. Next on the agenda was the
election of managers for  icehockey, ground-hockega 2 ndy, pingpong, They are: Polly Phillips, icehoeeky; Naney Henderson, groundhockey and Mary-Lou Sutherland,
ping-pong. Best of luck to you gals.
The election of class managers took
up the next few minutes. For the
coming year, they are: Florence
Annand, Freshettes; Barb Quigley,
Sophs; Shirley MeCoy, Juniors and
Mary MacKay, Seniors. There
should be fine inter-class competition this year if everybody turns
out for their class team. Remember, D.G.A.C. is open to all girls
interested in athletics and there are
instructors for those who wish to
learn,

I’m sure there are still some who
would like to play ground-hockey
but somehow-or-rather haven’t
added their names to, the list.
There is still time — practices are
from one to two at the field in
front of Kings. Oh yes, forgot to
mention, practices are on Tuesday
and Thursday.

ATTENTION ... All Dalhousie
and King’s freshettes: are compelled to attend Gym classes once a
week. These classes are necessary
to obtain your degree or diploma,
See Miss Keddy as soon as possible
—you will find her in her office at
any time during the day.

 

Dal To Invade—

Continued from page one
able that a fleet of buses will be
chartered to accommodate those
students who will not be fortunate
enough to make the trip by private
car. The buses will leave the
gymnasium at eleven a.m. and the
cost of transportation will be $2.00.

Every student who can possibly
make it is urged to go on this trip
with the promise that it will not
likely to be forgotten in a hurry.

 

Dr. Hayes—

Continued from page one
dition to spending some time at the
University of Liverpool, while
holding an 1.0.D.E. scholarship, he
was able to work in Germany as a
Rockefeller Fellow. He has held his
present position since returning to
Halifax from Europe in 1930,

 

largest faculty on the campus have
a basketball team befitting its size.
If you are uhable to attend the
meeting any information required

when the Tiger back fumbled
Siwatsky’s kick. The second Dartmouth rouge came in the third
quarter when Wilson, picking» up
Harrison’s fumble of another
Siwatsky kick, was swarmed upon
in the end zone by a host of blue
and yellow tacklers.

MacDonald at the gym.

Wed., Thurs.
“The Virginian” »
“Song of the Thin Man”
Fri., Sat.

“Waterfront at Mid-night”
“Fiesta”

In the final few minutes of play,
however, the real action developed.
Dal drove from its own 30 to the
Dartmouth 11 only to loose possession on a fumble. From there the
losers proceeded to drive to the
Dal 48 where they lost the ball on
downs, whereupon Dal took the ball
and marched to their second score.
Wilson streaked around left end to
the Air Station 40 and Bob Mac
GARRICK
THEATRE

 

 

 

CLASS
JEWELLERY

Birks have designs
and prices ready for
group orders of pins
for any society or class
at Dalhousie.

Why not come iv to
talk it over?

HENRY BIRKS &

SONS LIMITED DICKEN’S
Registered. Jeweller, American

Gem Society “OLIVER TWIST”

Halifax, N. S. ! f

CASINO
THEATRE

~ Starting Wednesday ~~

may be had by contacting Mason

J. ARTHUR RANK

presents

 

STUDENTS

If you are planning a frat

OXFORD :
THEATRE

Mon., Tues., Wed.

“SITTING PRETTY”
“FALL GUY”

or class party, you need the
best in music.

|
For the best in Halifax call
4-4450

FRED COVEY

94144 ALLEN ST.

Thurs.’ Fri., Sat.

“MY GIRL TISA”
PERSONAL COLUMN ;

Currently playing the Nova
Scotian Hotel supper dances

 
