    
    
   
 

.

 

 

 

 

Student Night For
Macbeth
Thursday, Nov. 24

 
 

Pr eRe TT Nea

maa 30 0 ie i a ae |
candy at TOR Vee Ne "

*

A

ew Oldest Student Publication

 

 

*

Public Nights For
Macbeth Friday

and Saturday

 

 

Vol. LXXXI

HALIFAX, N.

, TUESDAY,

NOVEMBER 23rd, 1948

No. 16

 

 

STUDENT FORUM  (Contidence was i ie of .

REQUIRES BIG
PARTICIPATION

Next Thursday will see the
semi-annual student forum convene in the Gym. For the benefit
of new students who may be unfamiliar with this institution it is
called for the purpose of presenting a financial report and for receiving individual beefs from the
student body.

Former forums have resulted in
radical changes or provisions as a
result of a complaint by one individual. One forum voted about
two thousand dollars in athletic
equipment after the D. A. A. C.
had discarded the idea of making

, such purchases,

One need that forums fill is
giving the Council powers it does
not possess. Only the forum can
amend constitutional provisions
and only a forum can touch the

*..)} ten thousand dollar sinking fund,

already risen to that figure after
expenditures of some seven thousand dollars in the last two years.

Without large atttendance the
forum is largely a waste of time.

/' J Attendance in the last two years

SS
—_

Lenore

bh

 

a
—

ine
—— a >

io

has been very great and it is hoped
that this year will be no excepHon.

... Prime Minister St. Laurent

NFCUS Conference bechamel:
‘A National Outlook For Society

A resolution recommending that
the NFCUS, in the light of present world conditions, and the

, doubtful aims of IUS, recognize

its Canadian character and remain a national institution was
passed over the week-end by a
Maritime Regional meeting of the

\. NFCUS.

Delegatés from Dalhousie were
Russ McKinney and Ross Hamilton.

The Resolution:

“Whereas it is the general feel
v+ing of this conference that the

IUS problem has, in the past, contributed to the detriment of the
positive aims aid objectives of
the NFCUS and:

“Whereas the events of the past

“summer do not indicate any hope

for more successful international
undertakings in the immediate
future and whereas the fundamental aims of NFCUS are to further

*-) the welfare and foster the unity

of Canadian students.
“Therefore be it resolved that
this conference recommend to the
NFCUS National Conference that
the immediate activities of NFCUS be confined to national student affairs and a consolidation
‘of our national organization and
further be it resolved that we reaffirm our support of ISS by leav
ing to that organization sole participation for Canadian students in
international activity on the student level, until such time as NFCUS, having considered its national status, the international situation, and the condition of ISS
feels that direct participation may
again be preferable.

 

NOTICE
The Annual Fall Dance of the
Dalhousie Newman Club will be
held Friday, Nov. 26,

 

Students Required
To Undergo X-Ray

The X-ray branch of the Dalhousie Student Health Service has
not yet been visited by all students of Dalhousie University.
This service is an integral, compulsory part of the University,
and all students are required. to
fulfill this obligation.

Any students who have not yet
been X-rayed are required to go
to the X-ray department in the
Tuberculosis Hospital and report
the date of their appointment as
set by the University.

 

'elose to exams

PRIME MINISTER ST. LAURENT
ADDRESSES DALHOUSIE MEETING

 

ae aia Minister Sec ois

Contidence In Government

Over a thousand students and members of the faculty
gathered in the gym on Saturday to hear an address by the
tight Honourable Louis S. Laurent, the new Prime Minister

of Canada, Mr.

St. Laurent was introduced by the Premier of

Nova Scotia, the Honourable Angus L. Macdonald.
- Mr. Macdonald reminded his audience of the distinguish
ed career of the Prime Minister,

both as a lawyer and states
man, which had given him an unusual insight into the problems of the country, particularly as on of the counsel to the
Rowell-Sirois Commission. Before introducing the Prime Min
ister, Mr.

Macdonald, referring to an address given here by

the Hon. George Drew a few weeks ago, said that while he
would say nothing about the power shortage in Otnario, there
was plenty. of water in Nova Scotia.

The editors of the Gazette
wish to extend a sincere apology to Bernie Creighton for
the unwarranted personal references to him which appeared in last Friday’s issue
of the Gazette.

M. J. Coldwell To
Speak At Dalhousie

The Campus C. C. U. F., not to
be outdone by the Liberal and
Young Conservative clubs at Dal,
will play host to National Leader
of the C.C.F. Party M. J. Coldwell, who will speak at Dal on the
ninth of December. It is unfortunate that the date fixed is as
as it is, but in
view of the fact that three quarters of an hour spent profitably
is going to have very little effect
on exam results, the club has decided to go ahead.

Dalhousie, the first University
to receive Mr. St. Laurent and
Colonel Drew in their new capacities of Prime Minister and Leader of the Progressive-Conservative Party respectively, will now
have the opportunity of hearing
the Leader of the C. C. F.

 

Mrs. Gladys Strum Expresses. High Praise For
Price Policies Of Finance Minister Illsley

The question of price control
was discussed by Mrs. Gladys
Strum with a group of students
in the Munroe room on Thursday.
Mrs. Strum, who is the Saskatchewan C. C. F. representative in
the house of Commons praised
Finance Minister Ilsley for the
price controls which he had imposed on us during the year. She
termed Ilsley, “One of those men
with whom one can disagree but
still respect.”

“Those who favor free enterprise do not want it to be really
free, but just want the subsidies

removed on essentials. We all felt
the effects when they were removed from milk and bread. The
©. C. F. wanted the subsidies kept
on, but it was outnumbered.” Mrs.
Strum called free enterprise “the
boom and bust cycle.”

“The freight rate questioin was
very interesting, whien it came
before the House. The proposed
increase of 21% received objections from seven of the provinces,
but Central Canada was satisfied
because all industry is located
there and goods do not have to be
shipped far. Mr. Caldwell showed

 

the need of equalizing the rates,
and proposed that the House adjourn for an investigation. Even
the Liberals were in favor of this,
but when the time came, “they
swallowed their words and accused Mr. Coldwell of playing politics.” This was the work of Mr.
King who favors free enterprise.”

Mrs. Strum, who is the only
woman in the House of Commons,
concluded her talk by urging her
listeners to act upon their convictions, and not only to believe
in freedom but to act up to their
beliefs.

$$$ __________—__—-&

APOLOGY °

ES
a

Mr. St. Laurent opened his adderss by saying that he had come
not so much as the Prime Minister
of Canada or as Leader of the Liberal Party as he did as a member
of Dalhousie University.

The general theme of the address
was the necessity for integrity in
publie life, and confidence on the
part of the electorate if the democratic process is to be protected.
Mr. St. Laurent referred to a letter he had received after an address, which said that the people
look for personality rather than
platforms in their public figures,
and respect a sound individual
more than any party platform.

From this Mr. St. Laurent went
on to say that confidence was the
basis of the democratic system; unless the people had confidence in a
man, that man was unlikely to be
elected. On the other hand, there
must be integrity and honesty on
the part of those in government,
otherwise democracy will not function properly.

Speaking about the San Francisco Conference, Mr. St. Laurent
pointed out that the Charter of the
United Nations, while defective in
some ways, was the result of much
compromise, and the best result
that could have been reached
there. The subsequent lack of confidence between the western nations and the Soviet Union and the
satellite countries was the reason
for the deterioration of international relations since the war.

Where there was no confidence,
government became futile, whether
in international or domestic matters. It was unfortunate that there
was not more confidence in international relations. Because of this,
however, war should be immediately anticipated; Soviet Leaders
would not start a war unless they
felt that they could win it. The Atlantic Pact is designed to act as a
check against any possible belligerency on their part, and for this,
too, there must be confidence between the nations involved.

There was p rolonged applause
at the conclusion of the Prime Minister’s address. Earle Urquhart,
President of the Dalhousie Liberal
Club, thanked him on behalf of the
students and the club.

 
 
   

 
  
 

_---——__s- Published twice a week by the Students’ Cffincil of
Dalhousie University. Opinions expressed are. not
‘necessarily those of the Students’ Council. For sub_~—~—s—s«dSeriptions, write Business Manager, Dalhousie Gazette, .
hn Sas Halifax, N, S. * : * * * . 7

  

|

apse, ; Editors-in-Chief
Peewee OR: LUSRER
Managing Editor
BRUCE LOCKWOOD
News Editors

=
- Vie
+ +

A. MOREIRA

Business Manager
ROBIN MACLEAN
d s ports Features
RED LAMPERT P. MINGO - M. GOLBURGH
_ BRUCE LOCKWOOD _ R. MCQUINN | .
Reporters—Ken Pholps, Valerie Cato, R. Levey, P. Simon, A. Harris,
- -D. Soberman, Ralph Brooks, K. Lawley, B. MeGeoch
anes Circulation Manager: Don Hall
Aenean : Assistant Business Manager: Alf Harris
Photographers: E. Richter, Dan Soberman
Printed by McCurdy Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S.

     
  

November 23, 1948 ~ No. 16

 

- THE SAME OLD PROBLEM

_ It was the old, old story.
We recommended immediate attention to awards at the
_ beginning of the year in order that the matter might be
__ settled once and for all this year. As it is now, the matter
will drag over until the Spring and nothing will be settled.
-___—«*Tt was feither the fault of the Committee nor of the
- Council as much as it was the fault of an attitude here, a
‘grasping and grabbing for awards on the part of students.
_ Only the other day we heard some one who represented the
_ ski team saying that Ds should be made available to that
branch of activity. Perhaps they should, but do we do a
_ thing only for the award?
Bae Wh . , * * k *
—-——s«sPhe situation last year might be summarized as follows: |
Sy Everyone thought the Glee Club were cheapening the D.
The basis for awards was about as clear as the mud at
Wanderers’ Field. .
_~—s- The Committee seemed to have the attitude that every~—~—s- Ohe:«~ Was trying to pull a fast one on it, and went far beyond
its powers to try and straighten everyone out on the subject.
ss The D.A.A.C. (according to the Committee report) was
the only organization sticking to its constitution.

        
    
      
  
   
     
 

a) ae
a:
# *

Noe - Member Canadian University Press — |

Pe a
omy

"There were too many Ds being awarded.
Pog oe OE ke
The figures are as follows: Last year the Glee Club
_ awarded thirty-one Silver Ds. The D.A.A.C. awarded six,
the Gazette four (of which two were grudgingly passed),
__ Sodales four, Pharos two, Delta Gamma two, the D.G.A.C.
six, and the Council one. |

 
  
 
 
    
   
   

win >
mo oe
a )

rh «4
mtihy,

Of fifty-four holders of Ds now on the Campus the dis
___ tribution is as follows:
ere S47 SORES... weak 1 Gazette ...... 5
Ee Council ...... Be tae DACA. Soe. 4
PHRaTOS ser. Cer Glee Club .... 33
ERLE y cca te 5
It was this apparent disparity between the Glee Club

and other organizations last year which prompted the Committee to recommend sweeping revisions to the Glee Club’s
. constitution. It was certainly at the root of a lot of bad feel...” ing last. year.

Pe re a : st we Pe *

With the attitude prevalent that awards are important
we have overlooked something. Some people actually enjoy
working for their college, and do not have to be bribed to
do it. The most miserly hoarder of points does much less
than some students do who never see a D.

We remember an engineer, since graduated (who, in the
process of playing varsity football and varsity basketball
for two years, twice broke the same arm and once broke

a blood vessel over an eye in the course of playing. He also

_ played a great deal of interfaculty sport. He was not even

recommended for a D, and probably didn’t expect to be. And
he was one of many,

It will come as an amazing revelation to a great many
on the Campus that some students. do not particularly want
awards, that they would behave the same way if there were
no awards at all in the offing. It is this attitude of something only for something that is killing spirit on the Campus.

%* * BS BS

~~ ceiiient. .Societies should each have their own distinctive
oe award, which would go a long way fo settling the complaint
| _— that ‘the D, now common to all organizations, is being cheapened by one of them. .
Constitutions should nevertheless be amended so that
an organization will be compelled to observe a reasonable
_ standard in granting major awards.

The chenille D (this is our own suggestion) should be
___Yeserved for athletics. Athletes, traditionally accorded such
__-_- recognition, should not have too see their award going out

by the hundred in other sorts of activity.

 

 
   

A

The Awards Committee should be told that its function
is only to scrutinize awards on the basis of a constitution,

und not to amend the constitution. _
he best solution, of course, is to abolish awards altoexcept where the Council feels that a Gold D award
e made. This would settle the problem completely,
obably not affect activity very much. If it would,

tter off without the peo

   

  
   

   
 
 
 

  

_As to the Committee’s recommendations, some are ex-|.

ople who would | rere eee
—. (Continued on page 3)

bie

    
   
  
   
     
   

Saturday, Noy. 20—Heard rain
falling in the early morning, and
did berate a man who told me,
and many others, the day before,
that there would be no rain today.

Much disgusted with the foul
weather, I did lay abed to nearly
noon, when I rose, and clad in
many garments, including my long
cloak and heavy boots, proceeded
to the Wanderers Grounds where
this day they played at football,
and the scholars—that is the ath
letic scholars—were defeated by

the sailors, and rubbed
mud, too.

in the

Once more the sailors-have been
made champions, and are not fit
to speak to, as they are most vain
and proud. Did hear it said that
the Admiral of the Fleet was
most pleased that the time for the
playing of football is over, so that
he may send the football players
back and bring here many who are
adept at the game of ice hockey.

~Much was said in the coffee
houses after, that the Navy did
deserve to win the contest, as they
played better, and in this I was
pleased to learn that the scholars
can be good at losing, as well as
winning.

To a dancing party after, wet to
the skin, and wet inside too, from
much drinking. Did discuss many
things, especially with a young
man of great perspicacity and who
knows whereof he speaks, John
Bedlam. He did give me sound
advice in the manner of writing
in the Spectator (early edition)
and I think he spoke well and
true.

Sunday, Noy. 21—Still up and
about, having been requested to
leave Noman’s land at closing
time, where a sad-faced old man
did walk about shouting “time,
gentlemen, time,” until I was
aware that he wished I would go,
and take my company with me,
which I did, threatening never to
return, at which he did clap his
hands for joy, which is a strange
thing, I think.

To another inn, which is open
all night, and occupied mostly by
thugs and ruffians, called, I believe, the New Liberalcy. Much
time eating of clams boiled in milk
with little onions, and discussing a
talk given to the scholars by the
Prime Minister, Mr. Holy River,
who said little, but waved his
hands much and was. cheered
mightily by the scholars.

Finally, it being light, I to my
home, where I spoke not to my
wife, she throwing a pan at me,
and to my bed, in my shirt, on
which was spilled much ale and
not a little clam soup.

Up again late this day, feeling
a touch of my old eomplaint, which
does resemble the symptoms of
the black plague, my tongue being
thick and most peculiarly colored,
being almost green. Could not
eat, and so back ‘to bed.

Monday, Nov. 22—To the college on the hill, late, where I
talked with many beginning barristers, who condemned the President of the University of No
Brainswith, and a man shaped like
a hare, called Lord Fevershook.

These men, I am told, had much |

to do with the ousting of a scholars club of socialists or radicals
from the college.

Sorhe do say, that if Lord
Fevershook do keep building colleges, and receiving honorary degrees, he will become the most
educated man in the realm, and he
do already have great wealth, or
did have.

Noting that law scholars are

over inclined toward the discussion

aa

 

ak

iain Sie
inl ee ae.

ab a8

 

   
  

 

      

 

     
    
 
   
 
  
   

 
    

 

eee oar “ il Z
Attractively set up departments
Featuring— - @ BOOKS
® MUSIC
@® RECORDS
@ PIANOS .
@® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES A
So e e e &
Willis Piano Co. Limited ‘
127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N.S. .
4
»

Halifax, Nova Scotia |
Largest Staff, Libraries, and Laboratories in the Maritimes

MDalhousie Anibersity ,

The Faculty of Arts and Science .
enjoys international distinction Fl
Degrees of: Diplomas in:
Bachelor of Arts Engineerin
Bachelor of Science wine .
Bachelor of Commerce :
Bachelor of Music Music Bachelor of Education * Pharmacy a

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy

Master of Science Mining Geology { j
Pre-Professional Courses / |
Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

Inclusive Fees in the B.A, Course average about $186.00 a year |
in the B.Se. Course, about $236.00 a year ha

Twenty-four entrance scholarships, each of a maximum value

of $600.00, available to students selected on basis of record of marks

in quarterly and final examinations in any Maritime school or

Junior College,
Many other valuable scholarships offered through the courses.

 

 

y The Professional Faculties
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation. |

 

Residences

Women students live in Shirreff Hall—one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion, Residence is provided for first year \
men in the University Men’s Residence. Other men ‘students live .
in either of two affiliated institutions or in.selected and approved  h:
homes. Special accommodation is provided for married ex-service y \
students. ios | ,

_ Meals for all students are available at the University.
sf For full information, write to ==

THE REGISTRAR

 

i, oy File a Orr y' deg
arty

Si rae ) Lis cet TL 0. pe gees MNEs, ,
i ame ai 4. cai aie eae, GS aes {
ial dai, eagle iw. iN A eee \ TAG ah i SA ee

 
 
 
      
     
      

~ ee
ae
Af

aie a
“Fae F ged
=

ee Almost fifteen hundred students packed Strachan Hall
University of Toronto, and overflowed
ngle last Friday to hear Dr.

' “Red” Dean of Canterbury,

  
 
   
 
    
  
   
   
 
 

a

    
 

) Law Defeats Arts
= Science Debaters

Law won another debate last} «

; ae ‘i
ae
fp aa
Pigs
beet 2

|
i

ret

ret
ee ee
pee. - a) oh

= “’ -_ fF

‘oO

4
J aD - |
D gi

 
  
 

zh
,
t

 
 

 
  

 

a

a
te }

Thursday evening when they defeated Delta Gamma on the resolution resolved that Canada adopt

   

,
: y r i
4 fag
a
= “
' ny
: 3
. l
fs

 

“SPEAKS AT
UNIVERSITY

: 1 ight Hundred Stand Outside Crowded Hall
As Dr. Hewlett Johnson Delivers Lecture

out into Trinity
Hewlett Johnson, the

“R lecture. There had been some
misunderstanding about Dr. Johnson’s address, with various
groups declaring that a man of his views should not be alwed to speak at the University. The huge turnout indicated
lich way student opinion lay.

= — ©

The Dean said that two alternatives lay before the world today,
war or peace. At present we were
rapidly approaching war with RusSia, a war which would be no
push-button” war, but the longest
and bloodiest in the history of
mankind.

He pointed out that Russia, de
a universal system of compulsory | yastated as she is, with 70,000 vil
military training

immediately. | ages and 17 cities destroyed, thou
Leo MacIntyre and Alfred Harris | sands of her people homeless and

upheld the affirmative,

Gamma team comprised of Ruth
Balmer and Eve Powell.

The argument of the Delta

; : while the|the tremendous task of: repairing
negative was upheld by the Delta] 4)) this

damage before her, cannot
want war. He himself did not think
that she did.

There was a question period

Gamma team was that such a|quring which the Dean was asked
plan (1) took too much valuable | about such matters as Russian obtime out of a man’s life. (2) that] struction in Germany, domination
such plans are nothing more than] jin Eastern Europe and why, if Rushelping to cause war. (3) that any | sia were such a‘ fine place, so many
compulsory plan would tend to people were escaping from her ter
destroy freedom with the state.

ritory. His answers put forward

The Law team on the other| Western lack of co-operation in
hand held (1) that a year in the| Germany. He had travelled through
army is not long and that the dis-| eastern countries, and to him it
cipline incurred would be of great|seemed that reconstruction was
value (2) with half the world at|their chief occupation rather than
war there is an immediate neces-| preparation for war.

sity for defence. (3) That being

At the end of the speech and the

prepared is the best way to pre-| question period there was prolongvent war and preserve our demo- ed applause by his listeners.

cracy.

If rumours that the ““Red’”’ Dean

The judges on the occasion were | will pass through Halifax are corProf. C. L. Bennet, Prof. L. Jolie, | rect, it is possible that he might

and Mr. J. DeWolfe.

 

 
    

MY- HOW SMART
YOUR HAIR

    
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
  

THANKS TO
BRYLCREEM/

Sold
everywhere
in handy
tubes

'. Bhere’s nothing like well-~

groomed hair to improve your
appearance—and make a hit
with the girls! That’s why
BRYLCREEM is so popular with
men everywhere... why it is
the largest selling hair dressing
in Canada! It instantly
makes your hair smooth, wellgroomed, attractive—without
being smelly or greasy.
GIRLS—Brylcreem is an excellent dressing for your hair
too—try it!

FREE COMB Get 2 special

a a Br y lcreem
pocket-comb and case! Send an
empty Brylcreem carton with your
name and address to:

Brylereem, Departmen. SM
294 Richmond St. W.

Toronto, Ontario

  

.

. ae eee
i =s a
7 .'9 wa ies es
. ey 53M Dy

     
 

cid |

Ee Le oe ae eee |

speak at Dalhousie.

The fourth lecture in the public
speaking series was given by Mr.
Sutcliffe. The instructor . gave

several valuable exercises. Printed
copies will be given out at the
next meeting.

    
     
   
  

GARRICK
THEATRE

TWO BLONDES AND
A REDHEAD

and

DESIRE ME

   
   

 

CASINO
THEATRE

Tues. - Wed. - Thurs.
ARTHUR J. RANK presents

BROKEN 3 OURNEY

Starting Friday
The All-Star Cnmedy Smash

ON OUR MERRY

WAY
Paulette GODDARD
Burgess MEREDITH
James STEWART
Henry FONDA
Dorothy LAMOUR
Victor MOORE
Fred MacMURRAY

 
    
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
  

  
   
    
 
  
 
  

   
 
  
 

  
    
   
   
 

    
 
  
 

    
   
   
 

  
 
  
   
 

  
  
   
  
  
  
     
    
  
  
  

OXFORD
THEATRE

Mon. - Tues. - Wed.
SIGN OF THE RAM

and

OUT OF THE BLEU

    
  
    
    

   
  
     
  
   
  

   
  
   
 
 
 
 

 

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.

MICKEY

 

er #; , a Ps ," 7, - 7! > 2 ¥
ye FF nr ee iP

7 ls 3a
- Et
a, 7 a =- x”
: a 7 Ors
aia © i's
a « 5 ;
y .

us
en

By R. S. LEVY

The Law debating team  successfully defeated the representatives of the Delta Gamma Society
on the issue of, “Should Canada
Adopt Compulsory Military Train
ing” on Thursday night in the
Moot Court Room in the Forest
building, As in the past the debate was successful save for the
very inadequate attendance of
none participating debaters. Under the new system adopted this
year the audience has a chance to
get into the show, by virtue of the
Oxford Union Style debating, but
from all reports the attendance
has been so low that it has not
proved very successfull, how
about showing a little interest in
debating, after all most of the
students of this school are potential debaters, besides this it gives
the debaters a chance to prove
their talent at handling an argument from the floor without
special preparation.

An atmosphere of “The Green
Look” has be@én taken on in the
Law School due to the approach
of the Christmas Examinations
which for some people may be
“FINALS”, in more ways. than
one. However a good antidote for
this type of dilemma is the Library, which, unless it has _ been
moved during the summer, is on
the floor immediately above the
classrooms.

 

Sam Peeps-(Continued from page 2)

of the government of the land
politics, I did sleep with friends at
a sort of travellers hostel, discovering that most who come
there are hiding from tutorial
classes at the engineering school,

Meet your friends at
THE

Riviera Tea Room
85 Spring Garden Road

 

LIKE THE NEW
HAIR DO’S

Your hair needs to be properly
cut, permanent waved and
dressed.

We ‘do them all properly and
distinetly at

HARRIETTES
BEAUTY SHOP

98 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Mills Bldg. — 3-7022

 

GAUVIN &
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS

and
BLUE PRINTING

881, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

 

CASINO TAXI
Phone 4-1233
@

24 HOUR SERVICE

128 and 130 Gottingen St.

 

   
   
 
   
 

Give a

MACASKILL
PICTURE

 

  

MACASKILL’S
475 Barrington St.

  
  

 
 
 

 

Cabinet Ministers Speak At

Page Three

Port of Halifax Club Dinner

Gazette Interviews Hon. L. Chevrier,
Hon. R. Winters, Here for Port of Halifux Week

The Gazette interviewed, briefly, the new Minister of
Reconstruction, Mr. Bob Winters, and the Minister of Transport, Mr. Lionel Chevrier last week, when the two members
of the federal cabinet were in Halifax for the Port of Halifax

Club dinner.

Mr. Chevrier has for some time been the target for criticism by the Halifax papers over such matters as the Halifax
port and the Strait of Canso causeway, and the effect of
higher freight rates on Maritime industry. However, at this

Awards Committee
Recommend Changes

The Chairman of last year’s
award’s committee presented a report which recommended, among
other things, the following
changes:

The criteria for awards should
be physical exertion, ability required for a job, value of the work
done, time required, glory or
notoriety of the position.

The D.A.A.C. awards
was recommended as a
for other sacieties to follow. In
the past, the D.A.A.C. have
awarded about one D (gold or
silver) to ten of the Glee Club’s,
two of the Gazette’s and one of
Sodales’, although it has more active members than any of the
others.

The Glee Club system was stated
to be the one most requiring correction; last year, the Glee Club
had more silver D awards than all
the other societies put together.
The recommendations were tabled
with the report, and conflict quite
considerably with recommendations suggested by the Glee Club
itself.

The Gazette constitution requires immediate scrutiny. The
relation of King’s students be defined. A handbook of Dal awards
should be drawn up, and made
available to the student body.

system
standard

 

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED

STUDLEY DRUG STORE
29 Coburg Road

FADER’S DRUG STORE
141 Hollis St.

Zan

“DANCING
SATURDAY

MILOWESS
COOLWESS
TASTE

 

  

function Mr. Chevrier spoke on the United Nations.
i eet eco pen lien *

Mr. Winters, who has taken over
from former Dal man C. D. Howe,
is considerably younger than most
men in the cabinet. He told the
Gazette that he was agreeably ~
shocked when he heard of his new
appointment which was only last
week. When asked about the housing problem, he mentioned that
great plans were in the making,
and reminded that this department
was a comparatively new one to
him. Mr. Winters is a distinguished
Maritimer, a graduate of Mount
Allison and an honour graduate of
the Massachussetts Institute of
Technology.

The Gazette’s interview with Mr.
Chevrier was quite short. He spoke
warmly of the Port of Halifax
Club, and mentioned the concrete
results achieved by a similar organization for the port of Churchill in Hudson Bay, whose shipping
has increased tremendously, mainly
because of the efforts of this organization.

 

FOR CLASSES AND HOMEWORK

 
   
      
   

NG

Proofed ”
d to

  
  

'pregsure2 ily bonde

a
: st
ree Ee * :

“use they'T
pee d is actua

oTH

tead ts Colloidal”

: ers gee
ee te
i fie ‘

FExcly

grit
only

 

VELVET

PENCILS

  

VENUS PENCIL CO. LTD., TORONTO, ONT.

sive Venus i

 
hat ge Lah bit
Teba ehh ~ :
Shh ae ee ll Se ae
% a <24) '
a

 
   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ERS, RETAIN CUP

Navy Capitalizes on Dal
Fumbles; Takes City Title
And Purdy Trophy

Meteorologists will confirm that it has rained in Halifax

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

er before but it is doubtful if even they would say it ever rained
a harder than it did on the day that the Navy sloshed its way
ee to a 15-to-6 victory over the Tigers to win the Halifax CaFi, nadian Football League championship playoff game and the
Bh Purdy Trophy. It would have almost been possible to start a
<P voyage on a slow boat to China from the Wanderers’
fs Grounds, the scene of the sudden death struggle.
Bie: In winning, the Sailors proved themselves to be the
By: superior mudders as from the very outset of the game Navy
Re was pushing the attack.
~ Before the battle was five min- mee Ee et Pe ee
Re utes old the Tars had assumed a] W@S blocked, left the field at the
Ey: quick 2-0 lead. Ed McSweeney, the close of the first half leading, 13-0.
be star of the game, kicked into the| The Navy scoring came to a
i Dal end zone twice within three| Close early in the third period when
ee minutes for a pair of rouges. Early McSweeney and Decker again
if in the second period McSweeney, punted into the Tiger end zone. to
Ba kicking from the Bengal 30, punt- notch another pair of rouges.
pas ed into the Dal end zone. When| Thereafter the winners were con5 Don Harrison and Murray Mulloy | tent to sit on their big lead and let
Ve Shown above is the victorious Arts and Science Ruggah team. The picture was taken shortly after they fambled the wet pigskin, Gordon, time run out.
whitewashed Commerce 18-0 on a muddy, rainsoaked field at King’s. Left to right; top row—George Tracy, Navy's tight halthack fell co a Harrison, the big gun in the Dal
Stratus Poulos, Emery Harris, “Diz” Dryden, Don Betts, Sandy Campbell, Dave McCurdy, Scott Hender- ball fer theslfivet peat of the| attack, started the Tiger scoring
S son. Bottom row—Ian Henderson, Scotty Beckett, Newcomb Bloomer, Mason MacDonald, Walt Hrynyshyn, game. McSweeney converted, and midway through the third period.
: George Kerr, “Fuz” Foster. Navy led, 8-0. His kick into the Navy end zone
L a Just before the half ended the] Was good for a FOURS when the
p Dal To Enter Sailors scored again. When Bob Sailors couldn't bring ene ball past
«4 Wilson, a surprise participant for their goal line. Malloy scored the
The Intercollegiate the Tigers, attempted to punt from Dal touchdown in the final period
the Dal 5 yard line, the Navy line] 38 he swept wide around left end
Campus Roundup Hockey League rose and blocked the kick. Decker| to score from the 14 yard line. The
recovered the ball in the Dal end] Play was set up when Dal recovby Windy O’ Neill Announcement that Dal would], 4. for the touchdown, and the| ered a fumble on the Navy 15. The
enter a team in the intercollegiate Sailors, after the convert attempt attempted conversion by Harrison
| Se aes said lan Pinvies warded off the ram- | "ockey league this. year ‘was re-)——_-_____________________ | was blocked.
rt ‘ : : : al tah ceived today from the office of} Snuggs and Fanny Doans were Harrison and Bob MacDonald
Le paging Dal Tigers, to retain the Halifax Canadian football league eat BS
i for the second fear in a row, last Saturday afternoon. There will John MacCormack. Earlier in the|the other two goal getters. The| were the standout performers for
| be no sour grapes emanating from this source, but this win, in our | S©a80n It was expected that the tean 7Was. tO have played Edge-|the Bengals while McSweeney and
opinion, does not necessarily prove that Navy has the better team. university would not be REP PES EY: hill Saturday but the weather| McLeod paced the winners. The
In the two other contests this year against the champs, the Gold| ed in the intercollegiate league postponed the gaem. . miserable playing conditions, as
, and Black looked as if they could trim the Tars any day of the week— due to changes made in the eeue Tis rumored there is a ping- 300 of the world’s hardiest fans
‘ and twice on Sundays (with all due respect, of course, to the Lord’s constitution which ruled eee pong’ ladder starting. The lists} will attest, however, did not bring
; Dal Alliance)—IF the field were dry. The one department that Navy | Players could play only for ere are up so just add your name to/|out the best in either team. Not
was superior to Dal was kicking and Padre Edward’s strategy was college team and none _ others. the others and then the ladder will | one forward pass was attempted
perfect. , This rule affected Dal in that} be posted. Matches may be played and a consistent ground game was
The Tars kicked on every possible occasion, with Decker and many of the players pn, the cam- Tuesday night at D. G. A. C. or at/| impossible to generate as they had
. McSweeny, boys who can really hoof, doing the honors. Their pus did play for outside teams | Sheriff Hall. fwon the league championship.
kicks were long and very high so that our backs had difficulty De tera aes nee
di fi erat i aed would seriously he ap any inSe saa was our fumbles that gave Navy the game Lapel i ate. ‘abtarts: euis Corsages
However, the Navy knew what they had to do and did it. They It was hoped that - nen GREEN LANTERN A “Colonial” Corsage deplayed a strenuous game against Air Station earlier in the week, while | league composed of the city col- diphed 3 ROSEDALE
Dal rested. The boys in blue are a great bunch of sportsmen and play | lege teams could be formed and RESTAURANT speaks eloquent volumes
a good clean game. They are the new champions of the Halifax Ca-|that this would provide Dal with | of tenderness and love.
nadian football league and a credit to football. This department, on ae ph toes ee rd oe
Jhousie students extend our hearty congratulations. And as}@er to Rave a successtul year. |) ‘ ;
ee vos Sm wait ts year! ; However this was found to be im- The sign of a good meal |
In the past two years, Dalhousie has risen from the depths to possible due a the fact that or ~ :
the top of Maritime athletics, and mainly by taking up Canadian Marys and Tech aoe aa oe 2 NURSERIES: Limited...
Football and putting out two good teams, our fame is not wholly ie ia Oh ay . 407-409 Barrington St. | i
> confined to this section of the country. It is interesting to note, : } 126 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
‘ also, that the school spirit of the university has risen in direct other alternative would have i
i: ratio to the athletic prowess. through oo _ det a
* This was accomplished by looking facts squarely in the eye, doing joc ee ai aa
what could be done and discarding that which could not be done. Oe of Dal, St. F. X. and Acadia. Dal Students-- It’s not too early to do
i other of these “facts” has arisen, and we wonder if those in charge of Leuba naadaia twas. drawn eS
i re ee ak, mtaneny nyur . Del up which would call for a home A welcome awaits you at your Christmas planning.
; very major Maritime university with the exception of Dal- |, » series to be played with
housie, now has a rink and many of their respective hockey teams re ie ar two ec. in the : ead elie a
| have commenced to work out. Last year, Dalhousie maintained a | jo.» Dal’s games would be played e/tunneys Lyniled A visit to Birks will
respectable status in college hockey due to fhe fact that we hap- (4) Saturday afternoons at the help and a deposit holds
. pened to be forunate enough to have three or four players of sen- ilifasciorum. 456 Barrington St. i
i ti calibre who kept in shape and practise by playing with city There will be two practices held your selection.
pi: re before Christmas.
Ht We must face the facts. Our team, due to the scarcity of ice hours leaner. eae sh ae - ey
i and facilities, cannot properly condition itself to play these other uni-| +3, and will be held at the Forum Where you will find a HENRY BIRKS &
: oe i a make a showing that would ordinarily be expected] ,), Saturday afternoon, Nov. 27 complete Music Service SONS LIMITED
y Te mee VCAT. and Dec. 4th. Manager Sherman x E
: It’s all very well to say that we are a big university and have Zwicker urges all those interest- and the finest ck ixtaveik dewelion > Auneckea
: always played hockey and should play every major sport, but on | ed in hockey to-turn out to these Gem Society
i the other hand lacings going into double figures would make us the practices. Sports Equipment. : .
Fr laughing stock of the Maritimes and have a devasting effect on | —————— | Halifax, N. S.
a our morale. ;
_ The issue is clear. We cannot compete in hockey against teams that ;
have the benefit of daily practise and months of playing, we would not GIRLS SPORTS
be doing justice to our name or our athletes. No matter how bitter the “Heat Merchants Since 1835”
Ea ao for us is to discard hockey as a competitive uni-| Attention—all boy ground hoc- S C :
i versity Sport. . key enthusiasts! ! The girls are 1
‘ ” " ns os members of the M.A.U. will probably emit great | looking forward to that game : unard and Company, Limited
t yelps of alarm at this move, of course, it isn’t their fault that the with you. But did you know that
} university authorities have ignored the pleas of the athletic de- you aie challenge them? No- COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL
ae ike ig oe antic ax the lon dar OIL, BURNING EQUIPMENT
; adie s, a challenge. Sat- Installed and Serviced
+ which will deprive Dalhousie of any players who can, or who have urday would have been a perfect
ee to, play for city teams, day for the game, you just HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.
> NOTES: Next year, we suggest that all the games of the HFCL|couldn’t convince yourself that it
4, be scheduled for Mondays and then the two teams and three or four’ wasn’t raining rain! ales
% thousand fans can surreptitiously wander to REDLAND where three; The ground hockey season is EVERYTHING FOR THE SPORTSMAN

officials just happened to be around and the game can get under way.
It is only in this manner that we ean foil the weatherman. JOE

_ McSHACKUP the campus wit says. “I love football season — it’s

only time of the year when you can go down the street with a girl on

drawing to a close. Friday saw a
game between H. L. C. and Dal—
with Dal winning by a score of
4-2, Little Ruth Bulman, scoring

one arm and a blanket on the other, and no one has any comments.|two goals gets first star. Pat

  
  

visit

THE SPORTS LODGE

90 GRANVILLE ST.

 

 
