ntercollegiate
bating Trials

¢ | Tomorrow 7.30

onight; 7.30
Room 4
Arts Building

4. In Room 3

Arts Building

   

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

Vol. LXXXI HALIFAX, N. S., TUESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1948. & No. 19

 

   
   

 

1949 SWEATER GIRL—Mary Christie (above) of Windsor, simultaneously acclaimed as Gazette “Cover Girl” by the Board
Nova Scotia, walked off the stage in the Dalhousie gym last of Editors. Thunderous applause marked the students acclaim
Friday night, bearing the proud title of “Dalhousie Sweater Girl of the judges’ choice. The contest was a feature of the annual
of 1949”. A nineteen-year-old freshette, she was selected by a Millionaires’ Ball, sponsored by the Commerce Society.

panel of judges as the unanimous winner of the contest and was Gazette Photo By Eric Richter

 

 

:

     
  

04)

 

pes i il fi
_ CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
i, Ti Member Canadian University Press

- Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of
Dalhousie University. Opinions expressed are not
necessarily those of the Students’ Council. For sub_ geriptions, write Business Manager, Dalhousie Gazette,

 

   
   
 
 
  
  
 
     
  
      

  

Saturday, Jan, 1 — Blessed be

        
      
  
    
   
  
    
    
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
  
   
    
 
    
    
   
  
  

  

Prater pity. | % oe % God, though I am still in fear of

at! CREA Neat Hse een Ti aii Se US ' “A my life as a result of the latest

Mea 5 an Eee) a eo a _Editors = Chief 4 MOREIRA murdger in the old town, I am still
Mitel pe: ee, D. LUSHER | | A. , able to write in the Spectator *
: Managing Editor Business Manager (early edition), which is free, I |

io ee _ BRUCE LOCKWOOD ~ ROBIN MACLEAN think. Freedom of speech is still
| ape VaR _ News Editors Sports | Features upheld by the authentic tradition of
+. RED LAMPERT P. MINGO . M. GOLBURGH western universities I am told, so wut
_ BRUCE LOCKWOOD _ R. MCQUINN_ ‘C. W. MacINTOSH |the Spectator (early edition) will ,

carry on as it hath in the past,
despite the loss of a dearly-beloved
relation. Although chronically ill

porters—Ken Pholps, Valerie Cato, R. Levey, P. Simon, A. Harris,
_- —D, Soberman, Ralph Brooks, K. Lawley, B. McGeoch
ahs) _ Cireulation Manager: Don Hall

    

Assistant Business Manager: Alf Harris . the relation had been expected to
ran tak te _ Photographers: E. Richter, Dan Soberman live on for several years, but died 4
ie “Printed by McCurdy Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S. unexpectedly last week as the re
sult of a great blood-letting.

   

  

   
    
    
    

 

Vol, LXXXI January 11, 1949 No. 18] Aithough the festivities of last
me sh, nf RK IAY: night were somewhat marred by p
By ee Chie 18a i ‘ b Th p 9 N 9 the news of the death in the fambe! aa W ‘hh. te Je Mi Le oO. ily, never-the-less a great ball was
th Dye ve ‘ e Wrong Wit «stots held and it is said that many were
_~—~—. “The following is taken from the editorial of the first|in their cups before the witching
i number of The Halifax Free Press, a new weekly paper, and| hour. Did hear of one Cant Swal‘may be of some interest to those who maintain, like our-|low, who spent the early hours of
selves, that the press must mix a little responsibility with its|this day asleep in his coach, ;
freedom. athwart the main route of thehigh-|—-§-§»$ a_i
Pati oy LO ye et) * x * % way which passes Quinn’s Pool. ees Plus 2¢
meee “No press is truly free that is controlled by one | AS for myself, did spend a disturb- oD wartime taxes
‘*» source of power, whether that one source of power is the |'& night on the stage from Paris and orders.
__- wealth of a man, or the police authority of the state. - to the old town. a ret . :
-——s *This is not yet a Communist or Nazi state, and so Ao a ec ckane COCA-COLA LTD. |
it remains possible for freedom to be exercised in order All tia dav BOM Glen dis. HALIFAX, N.S.
to remedy the state of affairs which has threatened Naat an vie es atch ts
shay . Halifax this week. due to un rich ta that I ate, I ah for th altbar ney sss bah
pce ae “For one management alone cannot be allowed in- | believe, I having indulged in ee trade-marks mean the same thing. ~
definitely to control the publication of the news—particu- ops, a mighty fine shell fish, and} ZX
+ larly when the participants in this week’s newspaper | poiled Spanish onions. Some did
| ~—~—~-—« merger control the local radio stations, and have begun |, emark I had a hang-over, which is s
| their career by withholding the news of the wholesale |, sidiculous statement as I never
_-~_-—« dismissal of the entire Chronicle staff on forty-eight [have hang-overs, being a most
_ = hours’ notice—some 150 men and women in all, from x

moderate drinker.
To bed early, my head aching
fiercely, that I smote my ugly
‘wife a great blow in the mouth and
slept alone, again.
Sunday, Jan. 2 (Lord’s Day) —
Home early after church where a_|
dull sermon was preached by a,
new preacher, and made breakfast
of an old herring which I found on
the floor. Grumbled, as I ate, at the
slothful habits of my ugly wife,
with whom I have no pane
lately, she being as the French say |
an “‘chienne vieille”. While eating,
one did come to me with news that
a little man with a cigar was!
freshly come to the Spectator |
(early edition) seeking employ- |
ment. He did claim he had great |
knowledge of athletic performances |
and did write about them for many, |
many years while employed by our |
late relation. Thought this most
unlikely, and expect to hear no
more of him, although he is a good
man withal. |
Out onto the highroad, and on|
the way to the Gym Inn did meet |
my old friend Buzzy Bender, who
seemed most pleased with herself
for some strange reason, and I did

remark she was looking much bet- st i
ter, which same was a fool’s re- ae

¢¢¢ “I've got to have somemark, methinks. However, I passed thine t , :
? Ss ’ 7 a?
on to the Gym Inn where all were : § 0 show Im a [union

talking of the examinations, and
great curses rent the air, aimed at
professors arid’ examination markers, who are a scurrilous collection
of Knaves. Although the examinations have all been marked according to their merits, the results
are not to be revealed until after
the next tea party at which the
university parliament will gather
and receive the blessings of Dr.
Otto for undoing the usual fifteen

managing editor to printer’s devil. In our opinion, that is
| news for Haligonians....
\ Wak _-~——s "Whatever else has been sold in this city, the
_~~~~—-—s journalistic tradition of such men as Joseph Howe, William Annand and W. S. Fielding cannot be transferred
- from one rich man to another like a piece of paper or
<a roll of bills ...”

% * * %

 

Alt eee event of the week in Halifax as the University reopened its doors was the “merger’’ of the two newspaper
companies which resulted in the dismissal of the entire
Chronicle staff. No less interesting than this “merger” was
the mystery in which the whole thing was shrouded.
| Except for one article (above) circulated by hand in the
City, the one hundred and fifty Chronicle staff members
filled out their unemployment insurance applications and left
my in silence, unsung and certainly unHeralded. The only tribute
they could expect.of the profession some of them had served
| for fifty years was a tactful silence. While the public understood that merger meant combination, the hundred and fifty
hanged their ex-employer in effigy, packed up and went.

_ As well as the oldtimers who found themselves without
jobs there were recent graduates of King’s and Dal, who had
just begun to contribute toa tradition. With the Chronicle
gone some will remember the rather austere editorial page,
others the book reviews, and some the only attempt made by
any newspaper to tell a few truths to the muddled apple industry. There are many who, going into the Forum, will see
the ghost of the man who failed to get an even break leaning
over the press box rail, absently dropping peanut shells on
the crowd below. 4

i In a guide to journalists published by some firm or other
a there appear the twelve commandments of the newspaper
| profession, the last of which runs something like this:—
“.,. And if thou feelest-that thou hast been betrayed,
walk out the door without a backward glance, and worry not
from when cometh thy next breakfast .. .” That’s all very
well if you haven’t got a wife and children.

D. V. A.

Christmas Examinations

D.V.A. requires all students under benefits, and expecting their
benefits to continue, to remain in
all classes for which fees have been
paid by D.V.A. To receive benefits
during the session 1949-50 students
must write final examinations in
all classes, and supplementals in
classes in which they fail.

Pending final action by the

 

Egbert seems to be having a little difficulty bolstering his dignity.

When it comes to building self-confidence, there’s nothing like money in the
bank to make a Frosh feel like a Senior.

, That’s why students from the U.N.B. to
v the U.B.C. are keeping their do-re-me
or in “MY BANK”,

Why not open an account today. That
per cent of the scholars. I am told ae net Moen nla
lo apa lana Ry Swagger than the best Clark Gable cookiebut I did but laugh at this, for it is yer

impossible, I think. After a long
day in the Inn, I lurched home and

to bed in my suit, my wife being BANK OF Mo NTREAL

 

 
 

ef - Graduate Record Examination

a Tests will be held on Monday,
February 7 and Tuesday, February
8. Application should be made as
soon as possible and in no case
later than January 20.

These tests are required by some
Graduate Schools, especially in the
United States, and are recommend
~~ ed by others. They are accepted by

we some schools of Medicine and
itd Dentistry, and are required by

         
     
 

Nh

    
     
       
       
       
       

  
      
   
   
           
       
  

  
       
 
 

   

i SSS SSS SSS SESE SSSSSeE

    
   
 
  

    
  
   

Be Sibi MeGill and ee others... Committee on Studies, students un-| not at home, and I did resolve to WORKING WITH CANADIANS
cs The Professional Aptttude Tests} der benefits whose failures make it| search out this dancing master Sa tN EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE
i a «Specially prepared for pre-Medical]advisable that classes should be] friend of hers and challenge him. Tae ree
Bee fie 5 candidates will not be offered at dropped, should consult the Univer-| Monday, Jan. 3—Up early, hear- ets OP ep evewnpace ’ ae
| wierd eis. y eee he: WW sity Veterans’ Adviser before dis-| ing a. newsboy on the road below, Halif Fr.
Perey Se deg oe ation continuing any class. oS and purchased from him a sheet ax Branch: ee A. HOBSON, Mgr.
6, Men’s Residence. ‘| Office of the Veterans’ Adviser, _ called the Free Press, which is new North ‘Kad Beiichs “CHARIS ceo fe Mee.
ate Waele Ys). |g etnousie University, — | |te me and appears to be against!  Quinpool Road and Kline St.: CHbMpOPHI aon
CARMA tacky MO N90" + (Continued on Page 3) — Ba CN Cees 6S SA ee  TAMEC mone Mgr.

   

, J % {
ry \ we Ya) 4 {ere alt a
; ey Lhd woe el ‘ . Aes: x. 3 wee xf ah ee pains eh) tah i!

2s i tet Wii} 4 : 4, a ' eat a Lie Paces Age ah . ° Ma i vil a leet wa ay iN) ~
: wx ; BREA dee oh. 1 3 ies fi

         

ai
‘ il hike ont Oe

oO)

 
 
  
  
    

i
ot
4
7
oa?

t «

ue

»!
us
i

a if
ry

AD,

|

  
 
 

Clippings i i

To confer on our readers the doubtful privilege
of reading the most unmitigated piece of drivel we
have seen in ages, we reprint in its entirety the following editorial from the Mount Allison Argosy

Weekly.
TO GUARD OUR FUTURE

Last week we had the privilege of meeting one of Canada’s most
distinguished politicians, the Hon. George Drew, National leader of the
Progressive Conservative party. Mr. Drew, in the short time that he
was with us in Charles Fawcett Memorial Hall, delivered a speech which
was, we can safely say, one of the most interesting-and informative
addresses that we of Mount Allison have ever heard on the campus.
At the time perhaps, many of us did not sense the serious undercurrent which lay beneath the seemingly placid atmosphere accompanying his remarks,’yet as we thought about what he had said we realized
that he was doing more than merely speaking to a group of students
—he was appealing to us as future citizens to come to the rescue of a
nation whose very democratic destiny was hanging in the balance.

To lay bare the skeleton on which he built his address would reveal
several facts which would and should shock freedom-loving Canadians
out of the complacent stupor which seems to have overcome many
us. Colonel Drew stated that if young Canadians did not open their
eyes to politics and the necessity of having an unbiased understanding
of the government, the country was in grave danger of falling prey to
a way of life that can mean only ultimate destruction of all things
worthwhile,

The Conservative Leader warned against the folly of falling prey
to the Socialist spider. Using Europe as an example he showed us how
quickly the ominous shadow of the Hammer and Sickle fall over countries which have first blundered into Socialism. If every Canadian realized the truth about these two types of governments they would not be
so ready to throw away the precious heritage that they have inherited.
It has come to us from generations of men and women who created this
country so that they and their descendants might live in the sunlight
with the pure winds of freedom blowing in their faces. In contrast, how
false is the front which disguises so perfectly the animal-like existence
of people within the borders of Communistic and Socialistic countries!
Can veritable serfdom to a band of power-hungry individuals be compared with the freedom which we as Canadians enjoy? Anyone who
questions the point is indeed of questionable intelligence.

 

Strangely enough, however, this unsavory form of life is being
fostered right here in Canada, the nation we so proudly acclaim as
the very emblem of democracy. If we do not educate ourselves politically now when the world is in such a precarious state how can we be
prepared later on to combat the invading forces which are at this very
moment threatening the future security of our Dominion? Mr. Drew’s
remarks in connection with this phase of our nation’s affairs should
stir us to action. We cannot be lookers-on and expect to solve the problem, we must prepare ourselves for the protection of our country, Of

Page Three

SEEK INCREASED GOVT. GRANTS

 

of | 2 meeting of the Association, The meeting will be held in Room 8 of

the Arts Building at seven o’clock.

 

KNOW YOUR PROFESSORS

Dean Of Dentistry

D.D.S., F.D.S.R.C.S. (Eng.,)
F.1.C.D.

|
JOHN STANLEY BAGNALL, |

Dean Bagnall was born and had| ==

his primary education in Charletown, P.E.I. After graduation from
primary school he entered Prince

graduated in 1904.

Dean Bagnall spent two years at
Dalhousie University prior to entering the Heavy Artillery in the
First Great War, from which he
was retired asa Captain after sustaining gas wounds in France.

Upon graduation he first worked in the Halifax Health CommisSion in the summer of 1921, and in
the fall of 1921 he came to the University as a full time assistant professor in the faculty of Dentistry.

Dean Bagnall was appointed as

course, we know that it is not a Utopia but it is much closer to this| Dean of the Faculty in 1947. He

than any other country of the world with the exception of the United

held the post of Secretary of the

States. With time and muclt hard work on the part of every citizen we | Canadian Dental Association from

ean help our nation attain the ultimate in all round perfection. It may | 1924 until 1942.

seem like a hazy ideal, this dream of ours, yet cannot things worthwhile be achieved if the workers are willing.

In order to see through the artificiality so typically representative
of Socialism and Communism we must develop what Mr. Drew so ably

called a politically cultured mind. Ignorance is the breeding ground of Carrier

these two governmental mechanisms, misleading propaganda flowing

from the mouths of their figtreheads, lures the unsuspecting into the SAM PEEPS—

ranks already filled with unthinking people who were once free. Yet

time and time again the same people keep on making the same mis-| the big newspapex, It did say, and |
takes, over and over. It seems so strange to us who can still think| truthfully, I think;

clearly that nations as a whole could be guilty of such political blunders.

Deceit and treachery form the foundations of their so-called govern-| dle of freedom, it shall be given to |
ments, brute force is their bulwark. May God grant us the foresight | @nother to light it again.” |

and comprehension to always keep our government free of such a

dangerous element. If we act now and open our minds to the light of| the efforts of this newspaper, and
understanding we will never have to worry about the future because we|2®™M resolved that the Spectator |

will always have the common sense to make the right decisions.

Regardless of our political affiliations we should all consider seriously the words of Mr. Drew. The light of democracy cannot be
quenched if we bind ourselves together in a common crusade for liberty,
decency and personal happiness. With this in mind our path is clear
and we can go forward undaunted.

OXFORD
THEATRE

Monday and Tuesday
“APRIL SHOWERS”
“TAKE MY LIFE”

 

GENTZELL
PHOTOGRAPHERS

and
BLUE PRINTING

88, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

 

Wednesday to Saturday

“THE BEST YEARS OF
OUR LIVES”

 

EVERYTHING FOR THE SPORTSMAN

visit

THE SPORTS LODGE

90 GRANVILLE ST.

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

Dean Bagnall has two children, a
son and a daughter. His son Jeff, is
now serving in the Dental Corps
and at present is on the Aircraft
“Magnificent.”

 

(Continued from Page 2)

|
“If one man snuffs out the can- |

I do hear considerable praise of

(early edition) shall continue free, |
or not at all. As the Free Press did
say;

ce

No man can create, by sale or |
purchase, a monopoly of the press |
—while the spirit of freedom lives |
in the breasts of working journal- |
ists.”’

 

of Wales College, from which he

 

“EXPORT”

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

___- VETS MEETING
TOMORROW

‘Cox, Urquhart To Report
| On Xmas Conference
| Resolutions

The Dal King’s Student -Veterans’ Association meets tomorrow
|night in Room 3 of the Arts Building at Seven o’clock to review the
progress made at the fourth annual Conference of Student Veterans, which was held at Queen’s
University, Kingston, over the
holidays. All members are urged
'to be present.

Earle Urquhart and Bill Cox,| Important resolutions which will
eee eh Ee ‘on Con- | receive most of the meeting’s atference at Kingston, will report om|tention are those dealing with in

creased grants to student veterans,
and affiliation with the Legion,
which have already been forwarded to the Parliamentary Committee on Veteran Rehabilitation.

Delegates to the conference were
Earl Urquhart and Bill Cox, second and third year Law students
respectfully, who returned to Halifax a week ago from the conference. The conference itself, they
said, had been most satisfactory.

 

 

   
 

COUNCIL EXECUTIVE
MEETS TONIGHT

The Executive of the Students’
Council meets tonight in the Murray Homestead for its annual review of society budgets. There will
probably be a re-allocation of unspent funds budgeted for last term
to organizations which require a
further expenditure.

The Executive will also prepare
an agenda for the first meeting of
the Council, which will be held
some time this week.

N. S. Rhodes Scholar...

 

~

Gazette Photo by Richter
Pete Hanington, second year Law student, has been appointed
Nova Scotia Rhodes Scholar for 1949, Pete first came to Dal in 1945

i ° : y . .
after a stint in the Navy, where he had gone after graduating from
| Rothesay Collegiate. In each of his four years here he has won a prize

or scholarship for academic standing. He has been on the King’s rugby
tea mfor four years, and its basketball team for three, and found time
for dramatics as well. Pete will be proceeding to Oxford next fall.

 

CASINO
THEATRE

 

 

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

¥ €
Now Playing iy le J
RED RIVER .
Ns 456 Barrington St.
wit

John WAYNE

Next Feature
CANON CITY

The Real Story of the Prison
Break at Canon City, Colorado,
Dec. 30, 1947. Filmed as it
happened.

 

Where you will find a
complete Music Service
and the finest

Sports Equipment.

 

 

 

 
PI ES

ar =

Campus Roundup
by Windy O’Neill

 

The Maritimes are blessed with many oddities. We have Magnetic
Hill, The Reversible Fails, and fifteen degree granting universities—
all building like mad—(if you have a program, count them: you can’t
tell a high school from a university without a program).

On account of the small population of the Maritimes, there
is a yery limited number of students of university calibre and
means available for these institutions to devour. The result is a
struggle to obtain students by any means and by all means! As
usual, Dalhousie, content with professional schools has been sleeping soundly while the other “universities” having been ee
hay at her expense,

The other “universities” have been using what they call field secretaries—who have been having a field day at our expense. Each summer these scholastic instruments put new batteries in their hearing
aids, clamp on hard, black hats and wander these provinces interviewing all potential university candidates. Dalhousie, the biggest institution, is the chief object of their attack and they excoriate Dal with a
long string of falsies manufactured over a long cold winter on bread
and water. When they meet the parents of some blushing, potential
B.A., it goes something like this—

Do not send your child to Dal, as its hands are black as soot,
Into that institution, no child of mine, I’d put,

There is tippling rampant there that no edict can entrammel,
If you send your boy to Dal, he’ll become a ruddy camel.

At this the parent should be on his feet, red-faced, and waving his
arms in rage, but if not, they have others. With their faces painfully
creased in smile they proceed to the next one which generally depicts
our city in all its VE Day glory.

Do not send your child to Halifax, it’s a port of much evil,

Do not put your little infant in the clutches of the deevil,

They stimulate concupiscence, make imagination finah,

If you send your boy to Dal, he may take a boat to Chinah.

And if this doesn’t work, everyone knows that Dal is poorly
equipped athletically without a rink or a football field for the past
two years; and also, the fact that through the efforts of the vaunted
My A.U. and their many rulings, we are well hindered in competitive
sports—they then come up with this one.

Do send your boy to our (ugh!) place, the My A.U. crowns us in
sports,

Do send your boy to our school, we play football there in shorts,

Put your boy beneath our thumb, he’ll receive our nice B.A.,

Please send your son to our école, we'll while his youth away.

At this point, our friends the field secretaries have now become
grim and determined and, fondling ominous looking bulges under their
left armpits, come through with the “clincher”.

Matins every morning, vespers at six,

We'll cleanse the little beggar of all his dirty tricks,

We'll fill him full of knowledge, so he'll never have to think,

And though no education, he'll never take a drink.

The moral of all this is that, in the near future, Dal will be forced
into the fight for students and our university will have to wake up.
The students, who seem to be aware of the situation have appointed a
committee to study the question. Under discussion will be stands for
the gym, a fence around the revamped athletic field, a rink, and
adequate snack bar and book store, a students’ union building, and
most important—a men’s residence. Many people of perspicacity think
that a men’s residence is far more important than the embryo arts
ie

* * * *

, On Friday last, the Commerce boys sponsored Battle of the Bulges
Ill and it was a hard fought struggle, indeed. Every year, at this time,
the Dalhousie Co-eds’ beauty comes to the fore and, truly, their beauty
should make our chests swell out with pride. We are pleased to report
that there was no cheating but it was remarked by many how the
Styles'in sweaters change from year to year. The dance was a great
success with the music being supplied by Les Single’s much improved
ggregation. The dance tempo of the Dal orchestra is as good as ever
but we all miss that Warner touch. The only trouble is, that after every
two numbers, Rigor Petrillo sets in and one must come to the dances
supplied with a long list of topics, to discuss with the other half, in the

NEW VARSITY

—_———

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COACH

Price of Gym | | Vince Ferguson ehos Over Job

Stands Lower

The committee entrusted
with advancing the matter of
stands for the gym have received figures from the companies concerned which indicate that for stands which
would seat four hundred and
ninety people the cost would
be about $5,600.00.

Any decision on the matter is
likely to come from the next meeting of thé Council. Whether it is
more profitable to seat this number properly or to forgo the cost
and retain the out-of-date and
totally inadequate system of
chairs is the question that rests
before them,

It seems entirely unlikely that
the students will undergo the full
costs themselves if the support of
the University is withheld.

VINCE FERGUSON

 

Three Letter M Man Don
Woodward Leaves Dal

Don ‘Woody’ Woodward, outstanding athlete at Dalhousie for the past two years, was bidden farewell by the
sporting element at Dalhousie after his decision to return to
his home town of Newton, Mass., just before Christmas.

Don came to Dal in the fall of 47 and immediately
carved a niche for himself in Dalhousies’ Hall of Fame
through his active participation in three major sports at the
University.

Present day students will perhaps remember him best for his
skill on the football field this past
season. In his first year at Dal he
sparked Dalhousie first introduc‘tion to the Canadian game of
football, masterminding the team
‘from the quarterback slot. How| ever this past year he really found
§ | himself when he became one of
| the outstanding ends of the
| League, sparking Dal to a first
| place play-off with Navy.
| His speed and agility were well
| put to use as a forward with the
| Dal Grads basketball teams, and
| until leaving he was manager of

 

| the Varsity team.

“Woody’s” third major sport
| Was Swimming and there again he
| excelled,

Dal ' Volleyball |

Team Captures
League Opener

The Dal volleyball team opened |

DON

WOODWARD

Ae A i A

CASINO TAXI

Phone 4-1233

 

many intervening lulls. However, its Nee oe

- Philadelphia i ee

iunes To Play

Philadelphia Colored Giants will
be the attraction in the gym tomorrow night when they meet the
highly-rated Dalhousie Grads in
an exhibition contest slated for
8.30 p.m.

The Giants have chalked up an
impressive record to date with
only five losses in some 80 games
played throughout the United
States and Canada.

In their line-up the Colored
Boys feature some of the outstanding professional hoopsters in
North America; Zack Clayton,
5’11”, of the Lumberjacks; Lionel
Robinson, 6’6”, Chicago Brown
Bombers; Sugar Odrisk, 6’4”, Kansas’ City Monarchs; Speed Lowe,
511”, New York Colored Stars;
Lee Dixon, 6’3”, Kansas City Stars

John Yance, 6’2”, Harlem Globe

Here

when the Grads succumbed to the
House of David early in the season, and another large turnout is
expected for tomorrow night’s
game,

BASKETBALL

The final meeting for the drawing up of the Interfaculty Basketball schedule will be held at 12
o'clock on Wednesday, January 13,
in the Physical Directors Office,
according to an announcement
made by John MacCormick. All
managers of their respective faculty teams are obliged to attend,
and must be able to give a definite
statement on the time that their
teams can play. The league will
probably commence sometime in
the following week.

 

the newly formed City Volleyball
League last Saturday afternoon by |
defeating a Navy team in two out |
the three games played at|
Stadacona Gym. After loosing the |
first game 15-8 to the sailor boys, |
they came back smartly in the last |

of

' two to win 15-4 and 15-11.

Sparked by the inspired play of)
Pawley, Ogilvie and Morrison the
team showed much promise. While
the standard of play was not high

the enthusiam was there and
manager Olin Gardner—expects) |

| the game to grow in popularity as |
the Saturdays roll by. '

The City Volleyball League was |
formed this year under the spon- |
sorship of the Halifax Y.M.C.A.
It is divided into two sections, |
each having six teams.

~

 

“DANCING

SATURDAY
NIGHT”

 

DANCE FAVORS

w

24 HOUR SERVICE

128 and 130 Gottingen St.

 

    
    
 
 
 
 
 

 

Birks have suggestions
for crested dance favors.

Box
the

Blue

for

The famous
will win
committee.

praise

Not expensive but nice.

HENRY BIRKS &
SONS LIMITED

Registered Jeweller, American
Gem Society

Halifax, N. S.

Of Rebuilding Hockey Club

For the second time in four
years Vinee Ferguson will
take over the coaching duties
of the Varsity Hockey team,
the hot spot on Dalhousie’s
coaching staff.

In the ’30’s, Vince was one of
the most outstanding hockey players in the Maritimes and was a
member of the famous Halifax
Wolverines of ’85 who captured the
Allen Cup. Perhaps better known
in his later years for his ability on
the baseball diamond, he is often
considered as one of the finest
players ever to be developed from
the local ranks. It was only in ’47
that he ended his active baseball
career and that was with the Nova
Scotia champion Halifax Shipyard
team,

Now he comes to Dalhousie with
an undisputed reputation in the
hope of producing a creditable if
not a championship Variety hockey
team despite the generally known
handicaps that any Dal team must
operate under,

LARGE TURNOUT

The support of the students
wanting to play hockey was shown
in the large number who turned
out for last Saturday’s practice.
Approximately forty were there.
The support of the seventeen
hundred is requested in the stands.

FIRST GAME

The first game of the Nova
Scotia Intercollegiate Hockey
League to be played by Dal will be
on February 5th at St. Francis
Xavier. This will be the acid test
for the Variety boys, because it is
understood from recent reports
that the Irish have a stronger’
team this year than in any of the
past ten. Acadia too, has practically the same team that won them
the Maritime title last year.

NEW TEAM

Last year Dal had a picture
team on paper, but because they
lacked sufficient practice, they
lacked team work. This year they
have none of the big name players
of last year, in fact only seven of
that lineup are back this season

 

NOT ONE
NOT TWO

BUT

 

FINE TOBACCOS
IN
ONE CIGARETTE

 

Attractively set up departments

Trotters; G Boggs, 5’9” | eaturing-— ® BOOKS

otters; George Boggs, ; i

Washington Bears; Bruce Wright, HOCKEY FADER’S : Teens g

ta 5’7”, Harlem Globe Trotters. The final arrangements for the PHARMACY ® PIANOS

} j To add to the evening’s enter-| Interfaeulty Hockey League will

i. tainment, Peaches Ruven has been|be completed at a meeting that LIMITED ® ELECTRIC APP LIANCES

Ss requested to act as referee, and
Tommy Sweet, manager of the
Grads, says Peaches will be on
ey) hand.

A record crowd were on hand

will be held in the Physical Director’s office on Friday, January
14th, at 12 o’clock, according to an
announcement made by John
MacCormick.

Willis Piano Co. Limited

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N. S.

29 Coburg Road

FADER’S DRUG STORE

}
|
j
STUDLEY DRUG STORE
141 Hollis St. |

    
