    

_———  «

.

i —— ——
—_

a

‘*

t«,

—— ———__—"* _

—

‘

hy

 

 

Dal-Wanderers
Saturday At
3.30

Vol, LXXXI

FILED -- F

 

A.

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

   

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29th, 1948

ICKLE FATE FOILS FEARLESS FIVE

 

Gazette Gambol
Next Friday

Tickets on Sale
Monday

 

 

No. 9

 

ALUMNI PLAY HOSTS T0 DAL

STUDENTS AT ANNUAL SMOKER

an eiroria. Six Hundred Stags
Enjoy Free Ot

The Dalhousie Alumni Association played host to some
600 male students of the University last night in the Dal
Gym. The occasion was the annual Alumni Smoker, an affair
enjoyed immensely by all those present. Free smokes and refreshments were passed out to everybody, and there were

 

(Gazette Photo by Richter)

“Pigeons” Riley, and the Trim voice.

Trim and Riley Conduct SemiWeekly Radio Bulletin Board

The Dalhousie Bulletin Board is back on the air over
CJCH. This year it is being conducted by John Trim, under
the direction of the Publicity Manager, Jack Wilcox.

The programme is being aired twice weekly over Norm
Riley’s “Penthouse Party’—Tuesday and Thursday nights at

11:40

te re ee ge

“Coke’’ Bribery
At Moot Court

Charges of bribery followed a decision handed down by their Lordships’ MacDonald, Harris and Parsons, on Tuesday atfernoon at Dal
Law School’s Moot Court.

In one of the most hectic sittings
of the year, G. S. Waterfield was
appealing a decision from the
Manitoba Supreme Court while
Hugh J. MacPherson was acting on
behalf of the respondents.

Though no objection came from
Mr. MacPherson, it was apparent
to the spectators that, during the
recesses, Mr. Waterfield had been
treating their Lordships to Coca
Cola, which kept them in a merry
if not to attentive mood during
Mr. MacPherson’s hour long talk.

The decision was in favour of

‘Mr. Waterfield by a 2-1 vote, with

Chief Justice Harris . MacDonald
dissenting.

| Notice

The Gazette wishes to make it
known that a letter received
from Professor G. Vibert Douglas was deleted following the
receipt of instructions from the
Students’ Council to the effect
that no material mentioning the
Gazette of last Friday appear in
the Gazette other than an official explanation.

 

———©® The Bulletin Board got its start

last year, through the efforts of
Art Mears, the 1947-’48 Publicity
Manager. Since then, it has gained
wide popularity.

One of the main attractions of
Dal’s affiliation with CJCH last
year was “D-Day’”—the day when
Dalhousie students took over the
operation of the station for its full
daily schedule. A group of about
twenty interested students took
part.

In view of the success with which
the day met last year, plans are
now underway for a_ similar
“D-Day” this year, As yet, according to Mr. Trim, nothing has been
finalized, but “CJCH is enthusiastic” over the idea.

During the Bulletin Board programmes of last year, interviews
were conducted with prominent
students on the campus, in an effort to acquaint students with all
the varied activities, so that wider
interest would be taken in student
affairs. Similiar interviews are to
be held from time to time this
year,

The programme is conducted in
an informal manner, with an eye
to staying in tune with the ‘“Penthouse Party”. Veteran dise jockey
Norm Riley is well pleased with it
to date.

 

Rehearsals Monday
There will be the regular concert

‘orchestra rehearsals on the stage

at seven o’clock on Monday nights.

ROLL OVER, ACADIA...

“Strangely enough” says the
Acadia Athenaeum, “the Editors of
the Dal Gazette showed themselves
gifted with prophecy as they appropriately changed the name of
their Friday issue to the “Halifax
Wail.” Most certainly, loud wail
was raised in Halifax after the
Acadia game — by Mr, Kelly.

Much as we dislike protests, it is
about time that Acadia learned
that when you have the opportunity to draw up a season’s rules to
your own advantage you should do
the decent thing, and abide by
them.

It had been considered here after
the game that some unfortunate incidents at the Acadia trip were the
work of a minority, but the Acadia
newspaper has publicity gloated, in
a rather childish manner, about
such things as ruining the engines
of Dal motor cars, When the official organ of a place which purports to be a “University” not only
countenances but encourages this

(Continued on page 4)

plenty of takers Ss.

Masonic bode
Proposed Here

A discussion on the advisability
of forming a University Masonic
Lodge on the Dalhousie campus
will be held on Firday evening,
Oct. 29, at 8.00 p. m. in the Faeulty Room, Kings College. All
members of the Masonic Order connected in any way with Dalhousie,

Kings, Pine Hill or Tech. are expected to attend, If the meeting
should decide in favour of the

above proposal it will be the first
time that any such organization
has attempted to form a university
group here.

 

(Gazette Photo by Richter)

1700 Students Are Customers

Need of New Cafeteria Apparent
To Student Patrons of Gym Store

by Valerie Cato
Gazette Staff Reporter

The Gym Store is a disgrace to
the University. It is small, overcrowded and dirty. And it is dirty,
in spite of Roy’s efforts to keep it
clean. No man, no matter how willing, can cope with the paper, cigarette butts and other refuse left by
a continually changing group of
students.

Dalhousie holds a position of esteem in relation to other colleges.
How are we expected to be proud
of it, if we have to take visiting
students to that hole in the wall
where we have to go for our mid
day snacks? Some may say that
we don’t have to go there, but
where else on the campus can we
eat except at meal times?

New students who have heard
stories, nice or otherwise, about
the store are bound to get a shock
the first time they see it. Looking
over the railing, all they see is a
pushing, shoving mass of humanity
some struggling for the exit, and
others squirming into the vacated
seats.

At meal times, it is bedlam.
Thirty or fourty students all wanting service, the girls behind the

(Continued on page 4)

————~ -—- — ——____~@>

 

After the Dal band had opened
the program with three selections,
G. R. Smith, Alumni Association
President, welcomed the audience
with a short talk. The male chorus
entertained with a trio of numbers,
and Mayor Ahern spoke briefly of
his Dalhousie background, Dr.
Kerr then outlined the University’s
growth in recent years and introduced the new members of the faculty. After refreshments had been
served, the balance of the evening
Was given over to group singing
and the mingling of undergraduates
with Dalhousians of former years.

Sawyer Attends
.S.S. Meeting

“How do you want your ISS dollars spent? What part of your dollars should be used to support foreign students at Dalhousie? How
much should spent on international seminars and student exchanges?” These and other questions will be raised and discussed
at the ISS conference being held in
Toronto, Oct. 29, 30, 31.

Dalhousie will be represented at
the conference by Bernal Sawyer,
president of Dalhousie’s ISS committee,

Arts & Science
Plan Reform

Faced with collapse and the dis
anding of the organization, the
Arts and Science Society held its
first meeting of the year yesterday
afternoon in the Arts Building.
Seott Morrison, president of the
Society, announced that an entirely
new society was being formed this
year with dues amounting to $1.00
for four years to be collected from
each member. A lack of funds in
the past has been one of the primary reasons for the failure of the
Society “to be an active group on
the campus.

That the Arts and Science Society may be about to undergo a
rebirth was hoped for in view of
the fact that 75 students attended
the meeting that at times became
quite lively.

 

be

 

 

 

Glee Chub Wants Tenors

The Glee Club wants:tenors for
its male chorus, particularly for
the production of Patience next

term. All interested are asked to
report at Thursday night rehearsals in the Gym at seven-thirty

1p. m,

 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

         

 

 

 

 
 
 

%)
:
Al tous
' a |
ti ba NY VA Fd »
i ay BA xt
i CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION ;
fe v4 ihe: * * * * *
A esis fey. ‘. 3 ft.
ree baie Editors-in-Chief
ap J. D. LUSHER A. MOREIRA A Bank of Montreal savings A ea!
ae Managing Editor Business Manager Wednesday, Oct. 26—Up betimes atcount will help you solve "i |
Ways BRUCE LOCKWOOD ROBIN MACLEAN and'to the Gym Ton. where sat‘over your “dollar difficulties”. Me
Nets * * ht aa % \\/
Wins a bowl with friends. Did hear from ; |
F IN CHARGE OF THIS ISSUE D. Auto that the protest to the| =m
ta News Sports Features Privy Council over the foul tactics | ———___— Seiad hd to —___—__—__—— meer ar
; ~ RED LAMPERT ; BOB McQUINN MARJ GOLBURGH of the Appleknockers of Areadia
: BRUCE LOCKWOOD goes before the body tomorrow.
; Reporters:—Barbara MeGeough, Dorothy Saffron, Did see Sandy Kenty, who tells me '
P. Simon, D. Soberman that these same Appleknockers did
Photographers:—Eric Richter, Dan Soberman pour sand into his carriage, where- ,
¥ Assistant Business Manager;—Altred Harris S at the carriage was spoiled for the
i Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S. .
=> Soran oR ar aye ey. journey, and he is put to great ex- >
Vol. LXXXI October 29th, 1948 No. 8} pense to have the same repaired.
— Verily, these Appleknockers seem 4

  
   
    

as’)

a

tf

 

Be ;
Para.

aii ‘ 5 :
De Ms ¥ frat

rs
La u

A
4

‘DALHOUSIE AND CANADA

“Dalhousie is turning out men who are focussing the attention of the country on the Maritimes.” The people of Canada now look down this way for the brains and the men to
earry on the affairs of this country.”

These words were uttered by a prominent Liberal M. P.
a few weeks ago at a large meeting. They are a tribute to the
Maritimes and to Dalhousie in surpassing so many difficulties in making a good education available to the youth of
these provinces.

As well, however, they remind us of the failure of the
Maritimes to suply an institution sufficiently advanced to
provide all the facilities necessary for those who seek an education here.

In the Maritimes there are about fourteen degree granting colleges who compete in the same fields without any advance in any, and without any great standing in any. Were
the resources of these colleges gathered together in one place,
or were their, efforts co-ordinated so that each could specialize in one field or another and achieve some degree of excellence in that field, then there might be some excuse for their
existence. Otherwise, we have the spectacle of Maritime
youth enjoying fourteen B. A.’s and very little more, except
at Dalhousie.

PUBLICITY

The work of the Publicity Department has amply proved
its worth since its inception a year and a half ago. This has
been largely due to the work of the directors, who have devoted far more time and energy to the job than is generally
expected from any student.

‘ Last week Mr. Jack Boudreau found it necessary to resign from the position due, to pressure of work. Those of us
who have been here for a few years remember Mr. Boudreau
as a familiar figure at every function, in many positions and
as an unlucky if almost successful candidate for the Presidency of the Students’ Council.

His work on the Publicity organization will be the last
job in a long series of jobs which he has successfully held
down for the benefit of Dalhousie students. It is very seldom
that the Gazette finds space to comment on the service of any
individual student, but in Mr. Boudreau the students had a
source of unfailing energy and an example of devoted service
which is not often seen at Dalhousie.

| Letters To The Editors

October 25, 1948
The Editor

Dalhousie Gazette
Dear Sir:

Please let me take advantage of
your columns to bring home to the

 

   

Dear Sir,

In an Editorial of the Gazette
dated Oct. 5th mention is made of
the Dalhousie Progressive Conservative Club being represented at
the National Convention in Ottawa.

piv ah. ys
a \ iif
Nyt

Wah. tet a eee eee Dee by 7)
os) PPR I rhe s "

  

students the Sodales Public Speaking programme for the year and
its importance to them.

This year, in order to fulfill a
long felt need in Dalhousie, the
executive of Sodales is providing
a course in public speaking. A substantial amount of money is being
spent to obtain instructors of the
highest calibre, and to provide a
course that will prove to be worthwhile to those interested in improving their platform manner.

There will be four lectures before
Christmas, the schedule of which
has been posted. Six more will be
held in the second term. a

The value of.these lectures to the
students and the'need they are filling in college life cannot be stressed too strongly. Every college
graduate should be able to appear
on a platform and express himself.

It is hoped by the Sodales executive that a large number ‘of students will take advantage of these
lectures. \

_ Yours very truly,\
Neil McKelvey 
President of Sodales
/ Gy’

da r

4 it. f
Sli

:
ba ght
4

  
  

   

i \
y, . ay 4 ; yey tae
5 We i gts a aes Bat
i gf Bam LY. < say Was!
ie Ne ah ee

  
 

* ai

  
 

I should like to inform your readets that the Dalhousie Liberal Club
was well represented at the National Liberal Convention which
was held in August. The Club had
three delegates and three alternates in attendance. Those attend:
ing were the Writer, Neil McKelvey, William Mingo, Harry Rhude,
Douglas Robertson, and George
Hawkins, While at the Convention
our Club was represented on different committees, namely, the
Writer on the Resolutions Committee, and Neil McKelvey on the Political Organization Committee and
other members filled other responsible positions.

I might add that these delegates
from Dalhousie also attended the
Canadian University Liberal Federation Convention which preceded
the National Convention. These delegates served on the following
committes, the Writer on the Constitutional committee, Wm. Mingo
on Social and Economic, Neil McKelvey on Organization, Douglas
Robertson on Entertainment and
Reception, and Harry Rhude on

to be a foul crew, and I do even
hear that their superiors encourage
them in their boorish conduct.

I to Cheapside for some ale,
where I did hear a madman rant
about the hypocrisy in high places.
Mueh incensed, I summoned the
beagle — how is it when rogues
shall rave against their betters?
Also met B. Walsoon, he of the
scholars who have adopted the new
colonial style of play, ignoring the
fine old British way. He much
aroused over the laxness of one
Bonehead, who seems to be their
commander, and who failed to summon them to council against the
Wonderers, whereat many fear
that the Wonderers or the Sailors
will defeat them. There is, then,
hope for the old way; for if these
players of the colonial game grow
careless and ignore their councils,
then they will assuredly lose their
jousts, and be no more.

Thurs., Oct. 27—Awoke late due
to sleeplessness over cats without
my window, and to Whitefryars for
my singing lesson with Monsieur
Battox. Did see McBrewgal there,

who hath a portrayal of a mouse, | >

and a mousetrap, and some cheese,
which is very cunning. Did hear
that the Spectator (early edition)
hath refused to reproduce it for
fear of the Chamberlain. In accord
with this, as it is nasty, though
very cunning.

Into the Seacow Inn for a bowl,
where I did hear that the players,
lately returned from the provinces,
are devising ways of obtaining decorations from the Parliament. On
presentation of theatre stubes they
expect to be awarded letters of merit; hear the Spectator (early edition) much incensed over this.

While there did also see Harris
McBagpipe of the students at Law,
who did tell me that his men were
roundly trounced by the men of
Letters in a joust, The men of Letters did smite hard upon the men
of Law, whereat the latter, being
unused to such treatment, were unseated as challengers of all comers.
He did also tell me many things of
interest of the Law, how a student
may by learning the Statute De
Donis Paludibus refute his teacher
on all points. Disbelieving, I home
and to supper.

There did call on me tonight one |

Hoggins, of the Medical Works,
who did seek to*enlist my support
against those who defame his
group, which does good works for
the benefit of all. He did inform
me, in ringing tones, that he desired this stamped out. I, being
weary, replied that it was a matter
for the Parliament, at which Hoggins became incensed, and replied
that the Parliament were worthless. I, shocked at such treason,
did hear him no more, but retired.
Tomorow is the. joust with the
Wonderers, whereat we shall see
whether the colonial game will supplant the fine old style or no.

SS

Constitutional and International.
Thanking you Mr. Editor for
space,
I am yours very truly,
Earl W. Urquhart, Pres.,
Dalhousie Liberal Club

 

 
    

   
 

 

=
*»
Of course, it’s his own fault. y
He should have known you have to keep
handsome Arrow shirts under lock and key. a
Consider the temptation .. . perfect-fitting
Arrow collar... dashing Arrow pattern...
flattering Arrow fit.
And Arrow shirts keep on fitting, because
they’re *SANFORIZED labelled. . . guaranteed never to shrink out‘of fit.
See your Arrow dealer. And while you’re
there, select several matching Arrow ties ig

..-smooth-tying every time.

P.S. The roomate hasn’t a chance... our
football hero has more Arrow shirts!

*Trade Mark

Look for the Arrow Trade Mark

ARROW SHIRTS

TIES © HANDKERCHIEFS

 

 

aon take chances wide dry scalp;

SYMPTOMS: itchy feeling; dandruff; dry, brittle hair; loose hairs on
comb or brush. Unless
checked may cause
baldness.

  
 
     

Vd
MAKE A HIT WITH HANDSOME unair! d
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic supplements the
natural scalp oils to keep your scalp in
condition, hair always good-looking and a
easily groomed. Largest selling hair prepa- 53"

ration in the world. It’s economical, too,

Vaseline HAIR TON ie

  

TRADE MARK
  
 
 
  
  

aap
age
Beetle i

  

Oct. 28th. “Introduction to Public Speaking” _
Mr. Donald Grant, one-time lecturer in public Speaking to the
Halifax Junior Board of Trade.

Nov, 4th “Preparation and Presentation of a Speech.” (1) Mr. Grant.

Nov. 10th. “Preparation and Presentation of a Speech” (2). Mr.
Canes 7 |

; Noy, 18th, “Voice Control,” Mr. Les Sutcliffe.

These lectures will all be accompanied by the regular debates,
which will be announced in advance.

_ All will be held in Room 3 of the Arts Building at 7.30 p.m. on

   

| Ho?

 

 

‘Thursday’s, unless otherwise announced.

 

—R.C. A. F. Training Plan

By Valerie Cato

The R. C. A. P. Liaison Officer
at Dalhousie has received notice
that the Air Force will continue its
Summer Training and Employment
Scheme in the summer of 1949.

for three consecutive years with a
will be the same as that of a Cadet
Officer.

Students who are interested are
requested to contact Professor
Theakston, Room 22 Engineering
Building, as soon as possible.

The Summer Employment} Application forms and circulars
Scheme is open to undergraduates | giving full particulars are available
, in Science, Medicine and Engineer-| at his office. Since all applications
ing, provided that they are ex-Air|/have to reach Headquarters by
ie Crew personnel. A number of stu-| November 15, those interested are
i dents were employed in the sum-lasked to be prompt. It is thought
mer of 1948, and for those who are} that those accepted for training or
interested this year, it should be} employment will be notified by the
noted that applications will be|end of February.
treated on a “first come, first serv-| yiew to a career in the Air Force
ed” basis, so the forms shouldbe} following graduation. This course |
¥ obtained as soon as possible. Those | js open only to unmarried men, but |

f

'
u ‘
" 
 
  
 
 
   

 

who are not accepted will be noti-| no previous experience with the Air |

fied at once.

The Summer Training Scheme is

Foree is necessary.
For those who had a commission

  
  

M

r .
Ace 9
ih

The Students Council has once
again refused to support the Medical Society Executive in it’s policy
of having 100% membership by
collecting the fee for membership
on registration. The facist policy
of forcing the students to belong to
the society has failed to get 100%
membership. The Students Council
will not force them; the book bureau policy will not force them;—
what to do? ?

Precedent Higgens has an idea.
Get some gals! Yes fellows, we
have’ been informed that at the
next meeting of the Medical Society not only will there be fine
films, good speakers, but lovely
females. The executive has decided
to invite nurses from the various
institutions of the city to attend
the friendly hour held once a
month in the Dal Clinic.

Contrary to the persistent rumors around the medical campus
we learned from Precedent Higgens that no changes in the present
executive are contemplated. Higgens emphatically stated that he
does not intend to resign.

On the social front we understand that there will be two big
parties in full swing on Saturday
night. Guess that’s not all that will
be full before the pumpkin festival
is over.

DV. A.

October cheques for the majority
of D. Y. A. students in good stand
intended for those who wish to en-|in the Air Force, the pay will be! in, are expected in time for payment early next week. Announcement will be made on the boards as
soon as definite information is received.

roll in an Air Crew training course

 

LOLOL

“DANCING

SATURDAY
NIGHT”

HALIFAX

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

  

“ NURERIES: Limited...

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax

Nova Scotia’s Two
Great Newspapers

THE HALIFAX
HERALD

THE HALIFAX
_ MAIL

Circulation Exceeds

90,000 Daily

 
  

NECK TIES?

Want “Good as New”
Ties Reasonably?

Mail us the ones you’re tired of.
We will return same’ number
beautifully cleaned different
ones in exchange ... 15¢c each
—minimum $1.00. Indicate your
preference for conservative,
sporty or assorted ties. Use
eoupon below. Tietrades Reg’d.,
P. O. Box 61138, Montreal.

To Tietrade Reg’d.
P. O. Box 6113, Montreal, Que.

I am enclosing........... neckties for exchange as advertised.
If available I would prefer:

Dia S18 18 Cle A\'e: 0 &.'4'\ 8 O18 Cee 0 2 Oe ¢

o.0 h) Ge Se eta ele e's ae ee Geiss «oe ©

Name ¥ iste, wake we oie ie Wig, Ce eles
block ietters)

a ae

 

    

  
  

  

‘ od FH,
At ra

: @ vs
hihihes ot
‘ ' i

 

. al a ‘ies
mas

- ;

 

 

 
     

ie ae “ re he Pa 2 bey a ty “
tee ae Sree sseeee ae ei

the same as their rank, but for |
others, in both schemes, the pay

THE

GREEN LANTERN

RESTAURANT

“The sign of a good meal’

gy
407-409 Barrington St.

 

CLASS
JEWELLERY

Birks have designs
and prices ready for
group orders of pins
for any society or class
at Dalhousie.

Why not come in to
talk it over?

HENRY BIRKS &
SONS LIMITED

Registered Jeweller, American
Gem Society

Halifax, N. S.

 

  
 
 
      
   
   
 
        
     
   
  
  

  
 
   

   

“EXPORT”

CANADA'S PINEST
CIGARETTE

        
   
   

 
     

 

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED

STUDLEY DRUG STORE
29 Coburg Road

FADER’S DRUG STORE
141 Hollis St.

STUDENTS

If you are planning a frat
or class party, you need the

best in music.

For the best in Halifax call
4-4450

FRED COVEY

9444 ALLEN ST.

Currently playing the Nova
Scotian Hotel supper dances

 

    
      

ty)
i

co

he Aas
Toad ape

ate
Nn

ii
a

i

Cs
1
: , .
- y | 
   

COCA-COLA LTD.
HALIFAX, N. S.

, am a ~
Ver Agts letale
J

q I 4 ¢ ir ; ia t
Peele hh Wwe a) ery 1% hae alae 2 viay , : a ger ity
wOty dapat i yee ons-. OEE Files : (ey eay?
ne ; TUE B Page Three
f 7 ciiee P \ f . i oe .> ’ ; ;

led Notes |The Nature of Being A Gentleman

or Mr. Drew is a Nice Man

From the Saskatchewan Sheaf

Our landlord returned from a mysterious trip the other
day. We are on rather formal relations with our landlord, but
at breakfast we couldn’t help noticing a new light in his eye
and a new vigour in his step. Taking this as our cue, we asked
a leading question. All through porridge and coffee he eagerly told us about Great Things in Ottawa. We continued with
our coffee until he mentioned George Drew. “The Ontario
premier?” we prompted. “You mean the Prime Minister of
the Soverign Province of Ontario,” he corrected. We returned
to our coffee, properly subdued.

a Pe Lda pes mL ee
j Tc / } is ax os
PES eas be Ae Ne ae Peet;
‘ te . ia f

Refreshing fun

Long after that fateful breakfast we reflected that our landlord must have been thinking about
provincial rights. Conventions usually affect people that way, and
with the new light of Drew shining
in our landlard’s eye we began to
consider the implications of the
Tory platform recently adopted at

| Ottawa.

Everyone will agree that “provincial rights’? should be protected.
One is entitled to ask, however,
how Mr. Drew defines them. The
attitude of Mr. Drew’s Ontario
government and Mr. Duplessis’
Quebec government in DominionProvincial talks has led some
people to believe that by ‘“provincial rights” is meant the selfinterest of Ontario and Quebec
at the expense of the other seven
provinces. The Ottawa government, under such a system, becomes simply a glorified holding
company for the Central Provinces.

“But,” you ask, “have they not
promised a new deal for the Maritimes, and giving the prairie
farmers the option of selling
through either the Wheat Board
or the open market, so giving them
the full advantage of the world
wheat price?” This looks very nice
in writing, but some farmers
might think it beneath their dignity to accept the policy of an outright subsidy from Canadian consumers whenever wheat prices fall
low. And a new deal for the Maritimes has ben carefully predicated
with the stipuation that it must be
in accord always with the principles of “sound economics.”

Nowhere, however, do they define “sound economics.” This we
might deduce from the rest of the
platform, They promise to cut government expenditure while  increasing social services — a neat
trick! They promise lower taxes—

GADVIN &
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS

and
BLUE PRINTING

8814 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

es
oO
pg
] . f wi2
| I MeN Ce
Vu) YZ)

Ask for it either way... both

trade-marks mean the same thing’

 

and the freeing of business enterprise (right in the midst of our
greatest investment boom!). The
increased cost of social services
plus the decreased taxation would
surely eat up more than the present surplus, and they would then be
forced to resort to higher indirect
taxes. And indirect taxes usually
bear most heavily on the lower income groups and the “have-not”
provinces. Possibly this is what
they mean by “freeing business,”
Promise of a new deal for the
Maritimes becomes meaningless in
the face of such yack-ety-yak.

They say they are against inflation. Their policies, however, by
throwing a billion dollar surplus
into hands of consumers and encouraging an even greater investment boom, show them to be
against deflation, Thus if they are
for anything, it must be ’flation.
They are for a Maritime new deal
—yet their “applied economics”
would upset the financial balance
between the provinces still more.
They are neither for nor against
the Canadian Wheat Board. Of all
their nicknames, that of “Pro-Con’”’
is clearly the least apt, for they
seem to be neither for nor against
anything.

The new Progressive-Conservative platform is thus characterized
by its emphasis on Provincial
Rights, ‘flation, and politics, No
double-talk has been spared that
might help them to the seats of the
mighty. The back-hand of fellowship extended to Quebec, the promise of everything and nothing to
anybody. It is strange but true,
that

“The Nazi fable of the Herren
volk

Most free Canadians believe a

joke;
But the Tory inclination
To be Lord of all creation

Democracy itself cannot revoke.”

The stage is set for the battle of
the century. Mr. Drew’s forces will
put up a stubborn fight, but Canadians will not likely be fooled. Perhaps it is just as well that the
*S. O. P. has come out in its Drew
colors. But if many Canadians do |
start shouting “Long Live George,”
its time for the rest of us to sing
“God Save Canada.”

We'll be back at the sign of the
Bow.

*Sad Old Party.

—Agittarius

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
     
   
 
  
   
    
  
  
   
 

  

 
  
   
  
 

| Janderers In aes
aturday Game

Dee re ae < i me ;
1 3 ; ce Dal Tigers move into action
Bi ep again tomorrow afternoon, Oct.

   
  
   
  
  

me “derers A.A.C. Starting time is 2.30
pm, at Redland. The new league
oe leading Tigers feel confident that
OR Sic a they will finish out the remaining
ae half of the schedule like they did

yes Suen first, without a loss. They

  
    
     
    
  
      
     
    

4 eo Pub of ‘the overconfident
ao team, by the lopsided score
of 15-0. The team has been out of
action since that game, in fact they
have been entirely out of action, for
they hadn’t held a practice up until last Wednesday.

_ None the less Dal should be able
‘ ‘aa defeat Wanderers, a team that
in the past has showed little or
Fi nothing pertaining _to Canadian
4 Ae They have suffered three

  

4
hae

   
  

  

   

ies 2 setbacks § so far in the three games
es they have played and probably will

ie ei) continue to suffer for the rest of

  

a ‘the year, Their defeats are getting
Ni anor all the time, 11-1 by Dal,

   

 Birtehate will probably field
‘much the same team as he did
against Navy. Though the backfield

 

i A
me A
‘ igi
ul ; He

   

  

thing whith is only obtained by
as _ Tong hours of practice. They are
not getting it. Again Burkhart will
“have to rely upon the individual
_ ability of Bob Wilson, Paul Lee,
i - Bob’ MacDonald and George Matfe tison, depending upon the line to
hold the fort when the boys are
tired or if they are off.
Don Woodword, Pete MacDonpats ald and Gerry Brown will probably
turn in another steller perform. ance with Hopman, Beliveau and
Peterson working in the line. On
ares ke! paper they can’t lose, at least this
game, but there are harder ones to
7)”, eome,

| Roll Over, ‘Avandia —

+ (Continued from page 1)

i sort of thing, it is time that we
Should stop going there.

~ The Acadia game will be replay‘ed: BEAT ACADIA.

_ Acadia trips have been a source
of constant worry to the Council;
_ there never seems to be an Acadia
trip without Dal students having

--—s*+no seating, no provisions for their
~~~ aecomodation, and rather direct

hints to the effect that they are
+ not expected to stick around.

The Acadia game will be replayed somewhere. Acadia has
claimed the “Halifax City League
Senior Championship” by virtue of
their games against Tech and Dal.
ae There seems to be too much grub_-——-s bing for “Championships,” but lit
 

 

 

ar i‘ tle desire to play games. When the
Beye game is played, turn out to support
bY _--your team, even if there are no
| ——s more Acadia trips that do not end
ee Pelt at Hanson’s.

ih; E

te. ‘Need New Cafeteria —
Oe

a , (Continued from page 1)

rae? counter edging their way between

seach other, Roy trying to get rid
of the last customers for . books,
"and above all this, a babel of voices
| —— and°a haze of smoke. For each pergon who wants to get out, about

a ame ten must be disturbed before even
ogy the start of a path to the door can

  
    
   
   
 
 

He managed.

And I am sure that no other college has to put up with buying
books in the same room where they
eat. After all, students are human,
and when buying books like them
to have the smell of peweiess, and

ie "EVERYTHING FOR THE SPORTSMAN

visit

"at
"
a! a _ yi

 

VICTORY OVERTECH BY
ONE TRY IN LAST HALF

Nickerson Goes Over For Three Points
In Final Seconds of Hotly Contested Game

One of the most outstanding plays seen in intercollegiate

football this year, gave the Dal Tigers a

3-0 win over Nova

Scotia Technical College, last Wednesday at the Wanderers
Grounds. With twenty seconds to go, Alex Farquhar received
the ball on his own twenty yard line, advanced to center field
through a maze of would be tacklers, passed out to Fred
Laphen who dashed down the left side line and latterled to
Dave Nickerson on Tech’s forty, who in turn, broke into the
clear and raced to the goal line with a herd of tired tacklers
clutching madly at his heels. A fitting climax to a bitterly

fought game.
The slightly

improved Tigers| last twenty seconds that they were

were very impressive on many oc-| able to break loose.

easions but the brutal drive and
experience of the Tech team forced
the Bengals into their own end of
hte field for most of the game. The
high,.cold wind blowing straight
down the field, controlled the type
of play for it was impossible to
kick against it.

The scoreless first half began
with Tech putting on the pressure.
With the wind behind them they
eontinually kicked. to advantage
without a noticeable reply from
Dal. The scrums were about even
and it was only the stellar play of
Monty Seeger in the full-back slot
that prevented Tech from going
over. Ken Reardon in the wing
position also came through with a
few point saving runs, and once
broke down the field into the clear,
only to be called back on an offside whistle. Another time, Dal
moved to Tech’s five yard line on
beautiful runs by Reardon and Bill
Morrow only to lose the ball on a
costly fumble. By now the Dal
serum began to work and on five
consecutive occasions heeled the
ball out. With four minutes to go
in the half Fred Laphen and Don
MacKeigan collided head on. The
latter a Tech star. and a former
Dalhousians was forced to retire
with a bruised leg.

The second half passed uneventfully as both teams began to tire.
Tech had the better of the play
partly because of better kicking at
the proper time and partly because
o feostly fumbles on the part of the
Tigers. Nevertheless in the last five
minutes Dal came to life with their
second wind but it was not until the

 

not be polluted with the aroma of
turnips and meatballs.

In Roy, the Institute for the
Blind has supplied the ideal per
son. His friendly disposition and],

helpfulness have aided many a new
student in selecting his books. But
think how much more he could do
with more space. |

We have been patient long
enough, Everyone realizes the ned
of a bigger store with a separate

place for selling books. But the
question is: WHEN WILL WE
GET IT?

ee

  
   
 
 

For Dal though everyone played
hard the outstanding men were Ken
Reardon, Alex Farquhar, Dave
Nickerson, Monty Seeger and Foo
Grant. For Tech there were Fletcher, Frank O’Neil and Callhan.

The Dal team: Monty Seeger,
full-back; Ken Reardon, Paul Palmer,, outsides; Fred Laphen, Alex
Farquhar, insides; Don Lynk, flying wing; Bill Morrow,
quarter; Dave Nickerson, John
Kinsman, Bliss Leslie, front line;
Leedham, Frederickson, locks
Foo Grant tail-up.

       

 

 
  
  
  
        
    
    
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
     
 
           
   
    
   
   
 
   
  

Oa oe

 

COLLEGE INITIATIONS—

They’re an education in themselves !
They lighten the daily grind...
put zest in the West and yeast
in the East. And when it comes fo
‘ pleasant smoking, frosh to faculty
go for fresh, cool Player’s Cigarettes;

PLAYER’S

The

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

Dal students returned from their annual pilgrimage to that bucolic
institution, Acadia, muttering about inhospitality and lack of accommodation. It is said, that there was only room for five hundred at the football dance which followed the game,vand ratio was four hundred Acadia students, admitted, to a hundred from Dal. The issue is clear,
gentlemen, either Acadia builds a bigger dance hall or gets the heck
out of the football league!

eae yam

Last week, The Halifax Community Concerts had a lovely soiree of
classical and semi-classical music. This year, as usual, the turnout of
Dal students has been comparatively poor—which is a shame. Has
our student body no aesthetic sense? Those aesthetes and would-be
aesthetes who faithfully attended last year’s: performances were rewarded with a most exhilarating evening of la danse by two well-built
performers who were garbed in a trifle less than an immodest California bathing beauty.

The excellence of the dancing and the surprising, complete and
happy tolerance with which it was received has inspired the muse.
With apologies to a noted privy poet

The lights went out and the show began,

On to the stage the dancers ran,

Their costumes were brief, and a little bold,
Much less than a strip-teaser we’re told.

The matron under shiny lorgnettes did peer,
Her bald-pated spouse, awoke with a leer.
Now, my dears, do not fret, do not start,
For ballet, you know, is a fine part of art.

On stage said she:

“De woild is full 0’ worries, wit dere Stalins, Molotovs and Vishinskys,
We have nix worries NOW, dis is better dan Minskys.”

(Editor’s Note)—For Dal students, who, we are sure would not
know, Minsky’s was a famous burlesque house in New York City which
was closed down by Mayor LaGuardia in his cleanup campaign, leaying many terpsichoreans on relief and causing a tremendous upswing in
attendance at Columbia’s afternoon lectures.

2% * %

NOTES: BUDDY CONDY, popular baseball player and pre-med
student is going to slip on the noose next week. DON HICKS, who
has played centre field, the last two seasons for the MARYSVILLE
ROYALS, this year’s New Brunswick champs is a first year dent student. DARTMOUTH AIR STATION has been reinforced by three
backfielders of senior calibre, who just happened to be drafted here
from the western air group. They should give NAVY quite a battle on
Saturday. The Rugger TIGERS have improved tremendously under the
tutoring of coach LARGE and the. prospects are very bright for another Maritime championship. EDDIE CROWELL lived up to expect
 

picking- | ations when he copped the well-attended Dal OPEN. This university

boasts some of the finest golf players in the Maritimes. THE PERSONNEL SERVICES have placed twelve students as ushers at the
eee wonder what they could do for one used, worn-out, old hockey
“play er?

Wy

fei AN WN
[ae “hn

\\: AY ae

4
bleed

 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  

CORK TIP and PLAIN

ar
PAPER DO NOT

PLAIN WITH “WETPROOF”
STICK' TO YOUR LIPS.

1 cess

 
 
  
 

   
 
 
   
 
  
  
    
 
  
  
  

     
     
     
   
   
   
       
    
   
       
       
       
     
     
           
           
   
       
       
   
         
     
         
         
     
     
     
     
     
       
       
       
       
     
       
       
     
     
      
