      
 
 
   

 

  
 
  
   
 
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
  
    
    
   
  
 
 
    
 
    
 
     
   
     
    
   
   
    
   
 
   
  
  
    
    

 

 
  
 
 

Seturday Night At
Sherriff Hall

a

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

Gazette Gambol
9.00 o'clock
This Evening

  
 

 

 

Vol. LXXXI

 

  

 

Flying Club To
Work Through
Winter Season

Organized with the purpose of
arousing an interest in flying
among students, the Dalhousie Fly
HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY,

NOVEMBER

 

5th, 1948

COUNCIL SEEKS CLARIFICATION
F ATHLETIC RESPONSIBILITY

No. 11

 

ta FY 4 Council Ceti lad By

   

ing Club has started operations for i He

the year. George Nelson, president
of the club, stated that the group
is using piper cub seaplanes at the
Halifax Flying Club at Waverley.
He also said that the club is hopeful. of operating all through the
year.

‘Last winter the club had to abandon its activities when the cold
weather and snow forced the closing of the field at Waverley. But
this year through the use of skis
and wheels on the planes the. club
plans to continue operations
through the winter.

The club meets for flying instruction and solo work once a
week, and will welcome any students interested in flying.

Agency Needs
Dal Students

The office of the Dalhousie Personal Services Student Employment Agency has been moved from
327 Brunswick Street to 18 Carleton Street, opposite the Forrest
Campus. All students, operators,
and other interested parties are
requested to note this change of
address. Part-time student workers
are urgently required by the ageney, especially those who may have
the time to do part-time work in
the mornings and afternoons. In
order to avail themselves of this
opportunity any interested students
are asked to register immediately
either in person, or phone 4-1546.

 

 

Delta Gamma
Will Sponser
Open House

“Ah, sweet mystery of life, at
last P’'ve found Thee.” The person
who said this must have had in
mind the Delta Gamma Open
House to be held Saturday evening
at Sherriff Hall. Where else coyld
such sweet mysteries be found?
Especially so early in the evening ?
By, nine o’clock a bevy of beauties
will be surrounding Clyde Schaeffer’s orchestra, awaiting their
lucky escorts, And towards eleven,
when the pangs of hunger are
striking, everyone will partake of
delicious refreshments, served in
the Sherriff Hall style. And where
ean you buy tickets to this gala affair? Why, from Budgie Archibald,
Barbara Lohnes, Sheila McLaren or
Joyce Cameron, Carol Bethune or
Gretchen Fraser.

NOTICE
There. mall be a meeting of
bes ee 50 ii in | the Chem

 

 

Harrison crashes through the Air Station line for a first down, as

Air Station attempts to protect its slim lead in Wednesday’s game.
(Gazette Photo By Soberman)

Injuries And Aerial Attack
Combine To Defeat Dalhousie

“Mr, Throw” and Mr, Catch” injured in the early minutes of the
game, the threat of missed classes
hanging over their heads like a
black cloud of gloom, and an inspired Dartmouth Air Station football team filling the air with passes, Dalhousie Tigers went down to
defeat, their first of the season, at
Wanderers Grounds Wednesday afternoon in a scheduled game of the
Halifax Canadian Football League.

Air Station won the game 14-11.
They deserved to. ~

Injuries, more than any other
faetor, spelled disaster for the Gold
and Black. Don Woodward, . “Mr.
Catch” of the Wilson to Woodward
passing combination, suffered an
injured finger in the opening minutes of play, and later was carried
from the field after being knocked
unconscious while tackling an Air
Station back. Bob Wilson, “Mr.
Throw,” suffered a leg injury in
the second quarter and was helped
from the field. He came back for
one play in the third quarter, but
had to leave the game. Cliff Hopman was out of the game for some
time after he was punted on the
point of the chin while attempting
to block a kick.

It looked like Dalhousie all the
way in the first few minutes.
Camped on the Air Station 25 yard
line, Don Woodward, complete with
damaged digit, whipped a pass to
left and Pete MacDonald for the
opening score. Mattison kicked the
convert. Dal led, then Air Station
took over. Munroe, in the second
quarter, faded back 30 yards behind the scrimmage line and rifled
a forward to an eager end, Harvey
Mills, who raced into paydirt. Munroe kicked the convert and the
game was tied. A few minutes later Sadler kicked and Harrison
was rouged, Then on two more

‘| kicks MacDonald and Feron were

rouged, and Air Station led, 9-6.
The worst was still to come. In

 

the final quarter, Munroe again
faded back and whipped a long
pass to Cocks. Murray Malloy slipped and fell just as he was about
to bat down the ball, and the end
slipped across the Dal line. The
convert was good and the Airmen
led 14-6.

With five minutes left to play,
Paul Lee called an end run, Bob
MacDonald took a lateral on the
Dal 45, passed to Pete Feron laterally, and Feron threaded his
way along the sidelines, past a
horde of Air Station tacklers, to
score a touchdown. Mattison’s attempt at convert was blocked, and

the scoring ended, 14-11 for Air be Rudy Levey.

Station.

University Position
On Payment Issue

rey A misunderstanding arising out of a meeting last spring
# gy | between representatives of the students, Board of Governors

and Senate,

in connection with increased students council

fees, payment of rink time, and allegedly, payment of athletic
coaches, resulted in confusion at a meeting of the Council of
Students in the Murray Homestead Tuesday night.

 

Osgood Hall
To Meet Dal In
Annual Debate

A well-attended meeting of the
Law Society was held last Wednesday with President Bob Matheson
in the Chair. Important item on the
agenda was the election of the Law
Ball committee, which will consist
of John Ballem from the Third
year, Leo MacIntyre from second
and Dick Miller from the first. It
was decided that the Dance would
be held on Friday, November 19th,
at the Nova Scotian. It is expected
that the dance will be the eminent
do it has been in past years. Further plans will be announced later.

Osgoode Hall Debate

Plans were made to bring Osgoods Hall down here this year for
the Law School’s annual debate
with the Ontario Law school. Dalhousie has been the winner for the
last year or two, and it is expected
that this year’s debate will be as
interesting as last year’s. The topic will probably be the proposed

 

    

Dispute arose when Russ MePresident of the Council

     

| revealed that as far as he knew;

and he had examined the minutes,
no mention of the supposed discussion of payment of coaches by the
University appeared in the records
of that meeting.

He said that the discussion of increased fees, and payment of ice
time was mentioned, but there was
no record of any conversation about
payment of coaches.

Members of the council professed
amazement at this statement, saying they were almost certain it had
been decided that the University
would pay coaching fees.

Others said they were not sure
if a definite commitment had been
made by the University, but they
certainly were of the opinion the
matter had been discussed.

Interviewed yesterday, Mr. McKinney said he was sure the matter was simply a misunderstadning.
“Apparently,” he said, “we got the
wrong impression last spring. I
thought we had discussed the matter and settled it, but apparently
we had not.”

He said that he would write a
letter to the Senate athletic com
Canadian Bill of Rights. Finally,| mittee asking for clarification of

the Society nominated a correspondent to the Gazette,

who will

the situation.
“The way it stands, now,” he
Continued on Page Four

 

Chess Club Budget Thrown Out As Milne
Threatens To Introduce Checkers Club

By the late Council Correspondent

In a session lasting five hours
the Council dealt with a variety of
matters last Tuesday night. Reports received from the secretary
of the League indicated that Dal
would net about $400 of the receipts to date in the Canadian Fotball League. The matter of the
University paying for coaches came
up again, and was deferred until
more could be ascertained as to
what exactly the University proposed to do. The Council’s financial
position was renewed, and it was
found that budgets submitted accounted for almost all expected receipts.

At this point the ladies arrived

late — loud eclucking from members. The matter of paying the
boxing coach $200 plus expenses
was referred back to the D. A. A.
C, Managing Committe.

A delegate from Mulgrave Park
asked for a grant for married students living there, since they lived

|too far away from the Campus to

avail themselves of its facilities.
After some protest on the part of
Med representatives, this was passed with some changes.

Miss Archibald then produced a
Delta Gamma budget which contained an item for $17 for “affairs
during Co-ed week.” No questions,
however, were asked as to this
item.

Mr. Don Cross introduced a budget for the Dalhousie Chess Club,
which proposed to send a team to
play the U. N. B. club before
Christmas. A loud outery as to the
status of this society was immediately raised:

Mr. Milne: “Everybody will want
io start clubs. I will start a bridge
club if this is passed.”

Mr. Cross pointed out that the
Chess Club was an old Dal organization which had ranked with Sodales before it became inactive before the war. It had a reasonably
large membership.

Mr. Milne. “Not only bridge.
Checkers!”

/
é
2 Pe

afi gue 5

The Council felt that with their
funds already almost overbudgeted
they could not afford the grant,
but expressed their gratification at
the Chess Club’s reyival, and announced that they would receive its
constitution at any time, Mr.
Milne’s threats may also have accounted for the votes of some Hon.
members.

Mr. Lomas introduced the matter
of N. F. C. U. S, “There would be
a.Yregional conference soon,” he
said, “to prepare for the National
Conference at Christmas.’ The
matter of I. U. S. was discussed;
the feeling in the Council seemed
to be quite plain, that they would
not want to see Nifcus have any
dealing with the organization due
to its Communist nature.

A matter of student discipline
was deferred until a further meeting, in order to make a fuller investigation of the circumstances
behind the matter, which had been
passed on to the Council by the
Senate.

 
_

iN
ve

YT ©

_--. GANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

Managing Editor

BRUCE LOCKWOOD

* *

| Editors-in-Chief J. D. LUSHER A. MOREIRA

Business Manager
RUCE LOCKWOOD ROBIN MACLEAN ate * % * * ot
IN CHARGE OF THIS ISSUE
Sports
BOB McQUINN

* * *

=

cee tee, 7
ia A
ae oe

i?
vile

Features
MARJ GOLBURGH

News
a Reporters:—Barbara McGeough, Dorothy Saffron,
P. Simon, D. Soberman

ie _ Photographers:—Eric Richter, Dan Soberman

Assistant Business Manager:—Alfred Harris
» al i air tae f 5

Ls
ane

ot
*

}
i. 7
me re
ve

oe
a ay! f
a“ ,
;
3 “WT aie

4

'

mL

Printed by McCurdy Print, $4 Argyle St, Halifax, N. S.

S

November 5, 1948 No. 11

STILL NO WAR MEMORIAL

ah a In the year 1945-46, when Dalhousie students approved

I ;
° eM re
' ?. i
y ro a

_ the idea in principle of a war memorial, they did not make

_--—s any ‘specific decision. There had been a meeting of student
-—s leaders with a Senate committee led by Dean Wilson, and this

meeting had decided that it would be necessary for the University to look into the matter first and consider ways and
means before arriving at any decision

That was four years ago, and still nothing has been done,

| either by Council leaders or by the Senate Committee, even in

“iit

considering the matter, so far as we know. There have been

vague rumours and hints as to action, but nothing has been

ae

2 ¥ done. With our fourth Armistice Day coming up there is still
-_- no sign that Dal will erect any sort of memorial to her fallen
wi, : sons.

_ If nothing is going to be done, we should at least be told.

COMMITTEE ROOM ATHLETICS
a “There is an unwholesome odour of sanctity covering

‘Maritime intercollegiate sport which is rapidly proceeding to
extremes. There was a time when one would have been criti
ee cised for fielding a team only to win games, but the situation

now is that one is lost if one does not win a championship.
There is no mention of playing the game for its own sake.

While it has done a hard job well in the past, this com_ plaint must necessarily be laid at the door of the M. I. A. U.,

which has forgotten all about sport in its anxiety to do jus
tice to constitutions and its members’ delicate sentiments on

A hb the sanctity of rules.

i Bin:

ie wy
oth »
ek, Ee
4 * os
f A ies
‘i
Pee la
f 4 Si
r
er

A season never passes without a number of protests,

re which have a great deal more weight in considering team sta
tus than the winning of games. All university clubs seem to

a> spend their time not practising the game, but prying loopholes in the wordy rubbish of rules, bye-laws and constitu
ae

I

BALE Ge
ik Bea
5 ef

tions. If Maritime Universities played a year without an athletic union, they would probably find a much healthier feeling
creeping into our sport.

- The Canadian football league has no constitution, even
though there is as much enthusiasm and pride involved in it
as in any Maritime University competition. It is doing exceedingly well.

GIVE THE ATHLETE A BREAK

_ There was some talk — it got no further than that — of
paris eauesday’s game because so many of the team
members had labs and lectures that they could not afford to
miss, and the University refused to consider a half holiday.

Some sort of arrangement should have been made at the
beginning of the League so that our games could either have
been played on half holidays, or the University would have
been asked to decree & few half-holidays well in advance.

Realizing the day before a game that some members of
the team have lectures, and then trying to obtain concessions
for them is neither fair to the team or the University. It
should have been obvious long ago that this would arise, and
arrangements should have been made well in advance.

_ __We cannot expect the members of a team to make a hab
it of missing classes to play games, nor can we expect the

Senate to declare a half-holiday on twenty-four hours notice.

| Er me should have been dealt with at the beginning of
- theterm. —

address and phone number at the
Registrar’s Office if you have
not done so already.

. = ,
Notices
_ We are trying to get out a
Students’ Directory, Some person
may have a job for YOU. Some_ body wants to extend hospitality
to YOU. An urgent message

; LOST

Small blue Shaeffer pen with

Where are You | owner’s name thereon, Finder
please return to Frances Doane,

7 ‘
en re
f i { _
Pi a Ya
ya at. KGS ah tk an lie j
Aa ON Lin es
ro 1G a
- tL .

|

Wednesday, Nov. 3—Up betimes,
with money in my purse, since the
King has paid his officers at the
-ollege on the hill this past week,
and all are most pleased, and not a
few drunk.

Today was most pained to hear
that I am mentioned to carry the
mace at the convening of Parliament, and in this I am resolved to
do well, as I try to do all things,
including the keeping of this journal. Was much agrieved to hear
that some said to President Otto
that I was too weak to lift the
mace, and others that I am not a
good man for the job, being a
Kingsman — a foul slander.

Told of a rare thing at Mulberry
Slummell, where live the married
pensioners from the Tangier
fracas. There is one there who
keeps the fires burning and the
pipes clean, and he did order new
pipes for the fires. One who is
called the Building Engineer,
Cheese-Home by name, asked him
how he measured the size of the
pipes, and he replied, “with a
Ruler”. The other then replied that
mathematiques must be used, and
with a Rule-that-slides, and a
string, and mathematiques, he figured scientifically and with difficulty, the size of the pipes. They
were ordered, and when they came
to Mulberry Slummell, it was found
that they were one whole inch
wrong in their diameter, and that
the measure with a Ruler at first
had been right. Did laugh at the
man and his mathematiques, thinking on how they that set themselves up as learned men do usually make themselves seem most
foolish,

Thursday, Nov. 4 — Much talk
again today of the game with the
men from across the Thames, who
are involved in learning how to
make the Navy fly, a most ridiculous plan, it seems, but things happen differently every day now, and
who knows—men may fly about in
the sky before long, although twill
be hard on those below, I think.

Talk still passing back and forth
at Sour’s about an affray at the
athletic game with the Wonderers
in which a Sailor was most grievously beaten by a scholar, of sorts,
from the colonies of Central Canada.

Met with the editors of the
Speetator (early edition) and we
did hold a great discussion on the
spelling of “Armistice” which, it
seems, said “Armistace”, spelt in
the old style, in their paper Tuesday. Many censored them for their
sticking to old spelling, but I supported it, being now a thinker like
most at the college on the hill, and
realize now that the old things are
best for us.

Home to bed; not speaking to my
wife who has been making much
of her dancing teacher of late.

Friday, Noy. 5 — Up betimes,
thinking of the last Gazette Gambol held last year, when I did read
a fine poem, writ by a scholar,
with the mighty philosophical
lines;

“Haste old sot, and bring down
here,

Enormous quantities of beer.”

I did reflect at length on why it
is, that last year there was no such
thing as beer, and this year, there
is. There were mighty efforts to
deny its presence, however, President Otto on one side and a governor named Long on the other. The
will of the scholars was heard
though, and now we have buckets
of beer. | ,

a a O Ae ee
ie tal ie y See oi? in.

she = mee |
<= Fo aid

a TN

T's one of the mildest tobaccos grown-and therefore

particularly suited for your pipe. Because of the texture
of the Burley leaf, it burns slowly . . . smokes
cool... stays lit!
For mellow, flavourful tobacco, you can’t
beat top-grade Burley leaf .. . expertly blended.

It’s a pipe tobacco that new smokers especially enjoy

. . » that veteran smokers swear by. Try a pipe of

icobac |

The Pick of Pipe Tobaccos

*” FOUN TODAY!

CHESS CLUB
WEIGHT LIFTING GROUP
FOREIGN LANGUAGE GROUP
FENCING SOCIETY

— ny .
Nt i

*
ce ee
eh TT

- e « “I wonder whether I’d
do better in the wrestling group
or the Chess club”

Don’t look now, Egbert, but the answer’s
pretty plain. And so is the answer to
leaky-pocket problems. If you’re having
trouble saving to get that flashy sports
outfit, Open a savings account at “MY >
BANK” today and sew up those leaky
pockets. You'll soon have that “I can buy
it whenever I want it” feeling.

YOANN

_Banx or MontTrReEAL

WORKING WITH CANADIANS
EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE

ee
Crowe

Halifax Branch: WILLIAM STEWART, Manager
CECIL W. MeMARTIN, Asst. Mer.
North End Branch: CHRISTOPHER LONSDALE, Mer.
_ Quinpool Road & Kline St.: JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mer.

IN 1817

= 7 \ : i
» ~~. in x i

we. | ’ : , '
Xe

ig hear Ty ie ae hs

seg eS |

se

wld vp ee
- + t
Lave aid Wik be enamel d ae Ae
Ge Satoh oo) hl “— a hc i
de et rere oi ea a
eee se

?
— <=

tf 7

i
2
*
ON ea

SS

! at
te
- “ps

nd a

 

=
__ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

_ Many Canadians Study:

 

, German Students Work
~~ Ex-Wehrmacht Officers Undergo
: Change Of Aititude Since War

By JACK MACCORMACK

I was sitting in the lounge of Plon castle talking to a
German student from Hamburg University. It developed that
he had served on U-Boats during the war until the Gestapo
nabbed him for “disloyal talk.”

He told me how he had-sailed from Germany in 1943 as
a radio operator on board the latest type of sub—fast enough
to catch even the Queen Elizabeth on the surface—equipped

me

~*¥

i

~

 
  
 

 
  

     
     

with an 8 inch gun and 48 torpedoes.
“We sailed from Germany to Greenland,” he said,

“thence south to Halifax.”

“And when did you get to Halifax?” I asked, trying to appear
casual, “About the 20th of July”
he replied. “What a coincidence” |
gulped,” I sailed from Halifax on
the Queen Elizabeth along with
180,000 other Canadians on the
24th of July 1943.”

He was an interesting character
in other ways too, An ex-ham, he
lost no time after the war in building a “rig’’. (strictly against occupation regulations). For months he
carried on conversations with hams
outside Germany and partially
escaped the prevailing German
claustrophobia. Finally the authorities caught up with him and confiscated his transmitter. He hopes
that the rules will change soon.
Those outside contacts meant a lot
to him.

We had a fairly rich mixture in
our room, Besides Al Smith from
Dal whose linguistic abilities, by
the way, amazed the other Canadians, there was Johnny Campbell
from St. F. X., Ralph Mosher from
Acadia and George Graham from
U.N.B. Four Germans and a
Dane rounded out our roomfull.

Of the Germans, Hans from Gottingen and Ernst from Dusseldorf
were the most interesting.

Hans was an ex Wehrmacht officer. Called up in 1937 at which
time, as he said, he was an ardent
17 year old Nazi, he had just completed the required two years
training when the war broke. He
took part in such outings as the
invasion of Poland in ’39 and the
assault on the Netherlands and

France in 1940. He fought for two
years in Russia and wound up
commanding a battalion in the Battle of The Bulge.

Now Hans is studying education
at the University of Gottingen,
hopes to work in a Teachers College. é

His present outlook on life can
perhaps be best illustrated by this
story: In addition to the 20 books
which we were all required to
bring from Canada I took one of
my own: Trevelyan’s “Social History of England.” It’s an excellent
book and it wasn’t on my table
long before Hans spotted it. He
read it like a starving man wolfs a
steak. When he had finished it he
started making a digest. He spent
laborious hours copying the best
passages and when I belatedly
made a present of it, his gratitude
was both touching and embarrassing. In exchange he forced me to
accept one of his own _ books,
doubtless a cherished possession. It
was written in German — a fact
that Mrs. Richter should find
amusing—and like all books produced in Germany to-day, the binding was practically worthless.

This story isn’t meant to prove
that all ex-Wehrmacht officers
have undergoen a change of heart
—persons tapable of rising above
their environment are rare in any
land—but that such things do happen even in present day Germany.

There are people in Germany,
rare and the more precious for
their rarity, who are desperately
seeking a new basis. Hans is one of

 

Outside Chores Make

   

  
 

ihe Inner Man Thirsty

 

Plus 2¢
wartime taxes
and orders,

 

oD

Ask for it either way... both
trade-marks mean the same thing.

COCA-COLA LTD.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

C’MON PADRE, HAVE A DRINK — Middle Bay
Hindus supply refreshments to the King’s missionary, who becomes so fortified with the brew that he
falls for one of the “‘dancing girls.’

?

Bottles Prominent As Thespians
Ignore The Old King’s Tradition

By 0. BURPY
Gazette Drama Critic
Bottles and dancing girls were prominent at the King’s
interbay drama festival held this week, with North Pole emerging the victor with a satire on Little Red Riding Hood
which featured her coming out of the See Hoarse chased by a
Wolf (Pete Hannington, above).

Horrible Hindus

Playwright Denne Burchill of
Middle Bay produced a show advertised as the “Horrible Hindus”
which displayed a King’s missionary in an Indian temple succumbing to the charms of two seductive
“dancing girls”, played by hairy
males, after the missionary had
imbibed heartily from a can marked “Brew”.

Theologue’s Radical Bay came
across with the best audience torture of the evening with a long recitation of Tam O’Shanter, with a
couple of weird scenes tagging
along somehow. Alexandra Hall
came across with a takeoff on
radio plays, featuring a melodrama
entitled “The Mortgage Expired At
Midnight”. North Pole Bay entered at the last minute with Desperate Dan McGrew, with the most
realistic den of iniquity we have

 

these and his lonely quest is continually frustrated for lack of good
books from “outside”.

In a German bookshop I found
copys of an interesting digest type
magazine. It is produced by the
British and is designed for Germany I was struck by such outstanding names on the cover as Albert Schweitzer and Arthur Schlesinger. The proprietor agreed that
it was a fine magazine but pointed
out that such things could not possibly replace books. He said that he
had not seen a book published outside Germany since the war ended.
“These are raisins,” he said, “we
need loaves of bread’’,

 
 
  

a) a

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

ever seen filled with iniquitious
characters.

Excepting only Alexandra Hall,
the main feature of all plays was
the prominence of bottled goods.
Outside observers felt that perhaps
the fine old tradition was a little

tainted.

 

We specialize in Footwear
that will fit every college
taste — for either service
or dress wear, for around
the campus or attending
social functions.

We cordially invite you to
pay us a visit. We present
such lines as

“Hart, “Slater” “Murray”
and “Ritchie”

SHANE’S
SHOE STORE

397 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax

 

 

 

—
ie

 

 

 

ce aie k

 

IS THIS A BOTTLE THAT I SEE BEFORE ME?—
Pete Hannington, the Wolf in Chapel Bay’s “Red
Riding Hood,” pauses in his chase of the little girl
through the forest to try and snare a bottle that

appears suddently.
©—_—— lacie det ta

READ

Nova Scotia’s Two
Great Newspapers

THE HALIFAX
HERALD

THE HALIFAX
MAIL

Circulation Exceeds

90,000 Daily

New Pens

A new pen is a faithful
friend when taking notes.
Drop in to see the new
models on display at
Birk’s.
Sheaffer, Waterman
Parker.

HENRY BIRKS &
SONS LIMITED

Registered Jeweller, American
Gem Society

Halifax, N. S.

Our skillful tie chef has whipped together a
brand new collection of handsome figures,
stripes, dots and checks.

See your Arrow dealer today for the top

tie value of Fall °48.

Lock for the Arrow Trade Mark

ARROW SHIRTS

 

>

TIES © HANDKERCHIEFS

 

 
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

     

The

Campus Roundup
by Windy O’ Neill

Ar Fe
a Sy \ es Ps
a: ——* ' = ah
Ey

  

_ First place and a bye into the league finals will be at stake on
Armistice Day when the Dalhousie Tigers take on the Navy Sailors.
The tension has been gradually building up for this game since Dal
laced the Tars 15-0 for the latter’s first defeat in two years. The
largest crowd ever to watch a football game in the Maritimes is expected to turn out and the uuthorities have made arrangements to
make all seats reserved so that students can be assured of obtaining a
reserved seat in the Dal section.
* x *

In the last two games, the Bengals have looked extra sharp
even though they lost a close one to the Air Station. They have
come through with some eye opening razzle-dazzle, but the most
encouraging thing is the great improvement in the first-year men.
Donny Harrison is really coming into his own, he is a driving runner and hard to hit—should be a real star next year. Andy MacKay shows great promise as a passer. George Mattison, Gerry
Brown, and Bill Peterson look as if they have a real future with
the Tigers.

h- * *
The football last year, the first year of the Halifax Canadian

Football League was not good—as everyone knows, but this year there

is a tremendous improvement. The forward pass has really hit the

league with a bang—everybody’s doing it. The air over Redland isn’t

safe for sparrow or pigeon but the game is really spectacular, un
predictable. Next year should be really something!
* * *

 

=
‘«

a ——n ee . aed . 5 =
= Oe ae, » — ee ee tae Pao = BE"
- “a * _ ~ a = a, = — = _ ;
~~ "Pao om Ww is 7 c 7 . aoa
: f eu ps ; ' .
: ; . ie ‘ ie
- :

ia

*

*

tet

Wanderers have been doormats of the league for two seasons and have evoked a general feeling of pity from the fans.
- Well, after the game they played on Saturday, don’t feel too sorry
for them because it’s quite likely, that in a year or two, that
they’ll be rubbing their opponents’ noses in their home plot and
making them like it. The Tigers never played better than they did
on Saturday and they were pressed throughout by the hardfighting Redlanders. Frankie Graves is one of the best backs in
the league, so are Frawley and Primrose, but they have a real
prize in young Ralph Maskill just up from Queen Elizabeth. Wait
till Wanderers start getting some finished football players
graduating from Dalhousie and the high schools!
k * &

There has been a lot of fuss lately, the way the Big Four hockey
Players are treating the poor referees. The league seems at a loss for a
remedy. This reminds me of an incident in a game between Detroit
and Toronto a couple of years ago, in which, on respective sides were
Adam Brown and Jackie McLean (now a graduate engineer playing in
Cape Breton). The two, being mighty peeved about something, slugging it out with such determination that referee Bill Chadwick was at
a loss to pacify them. After trying everything he knew (except, of
course, a noggin of foaming hops) he had a mental flash. “If you don’t
stop immediately, it will cost you both twenty-five bananas,” he said in
a low voice. The two became transfixed-rigid-frozen, just like two
comic Greek statues, That was all. We “wonder if this little anecdote
suggests anything to the executive of the Big Four.

% * *

NOTES: DON BUSSIERE, who flashed his wares here with the
McGill REDMEN is currently starring with the seniors. He played a
great game in their near upset of WESTERN. There is probably no
truth to the rumour that the Halifax staff of CANADIAN PRESS
have started smoking reefers. The story stems from a CP feature carried by the Halifax dailies to the effect that Canadian Football is
taking a bad beating at the hands of the grande olde game. They state
that the crowds have been lower this year but fail to tell of the inclement weather and how many came in the rain—a startling piece of
irresponsible journalism. The university, in collaboration with ISS is
waiving the fees«for “DISPLACED PERSON” student coming here
next year. Disk-jockey NORM RILEY had some nice things to say
about the GAZETTE in a certain period of stress and strain a week or
So ago,

ee ee et.

Swimming Periods Arranged
For Students At Stad Pool

Swimming is in for a big year at Dalhousie according to a communique from the Athletic Director’s office recently. The university
has gratefully accepted a loan of the Stadacona pool two nights weekly
from the Royal Canadian Navy and plans are underway to make the
fullest use of the time available.

This year’s swimming manager, Joe Levison, has been in touch
with Acadia University and it is expected that an invitation meet will
be held in Wolfville with Acadia, Navy and Dal just after Christmas.
The official Maritime Intercollegiate Swimming Meet is slated for the
end of February in Halifax. .

The nights that have been made available to the university are
Monday and Thursday at 5:30 P.M. Thus far the girls have the use of
the Monday period and the boys the Thursday time. Arrangements are
being completed for the appointment of a good coach whose name has
not been disclosed and the teams are assured of good training.

= —— ene See

|
|

   
 
   
   
 
 

 

sical Director, was able to secure
the court, at odd times during the
day and because of immediate interest it was decided to obtain regular hours this year. The request
was granted and students may

Says Director
use the courts during the mornings

An increase in the budget has} ang evenings of each week, upon
enabled many more students to) making application to Mr. Mactake advantage of the squash court| Cormack, It has been pointed out
this year. Up until last year the) that the courts are the only facilicourt was the exclusive property ty to be used in the area, those
of the members of the faculty and| wishing locker space, must use
students were not able to use it.| their own lockers and showers in
However, John MacCormak, Phy- the lower gym.

Squash Court
Now Available

    

 

 

 

Slight confusion causes Pete MacDonald to seemingly tackle teammate [Paul Lee. Actually, MacLean, No. 44 of Air Station had just
slipped past Lee and was clipped by MacDonald for a loss in last Wednesday’s game,

(Gazette Photo By Soberman)

Change To American
Style Of Play Possible

The possibility of the Halifax Canadian Football League
following the march of progress and switching to the American brand of football may be discussed at an early league
meeting, according to an official of the league.

Commenting on reports from the West that West coast teams
would play the faster, more wide-open south of the border game, the
official said “That’s what we want here faster ball.”

Chief protest of fans here has been the fact that players are
tackled before they can get under way, and as a result there are none
of the long runs so prevalent in the American game.

The wider use of the forward pass this season has made the game
much more interesting, and the adoption of the American rules, which
allow unlimited interference, should add up to better football.

The league official said he expects to bring up the plan soon, and
stated there might be considerable opposition to it. Players of the Dalhousie team, interviewed yesterday, said they felt the American rules
would make the game far more interesting, both for players and fans.

 

Boxing Tournaments

Will Be Under Way Soon

The Dalhousie boxing team held its first training period
last Wednesday evening in the lower gym at 7:30 P.M. There
were several freshmen at the tryout and it is expected that
the team this year will contain many new faces.

Ace Furlong, the manager of theg, __
team and one of Dal’s better fight- |

 

ers, announced that efforts were }

being made to get Jack McKenna, | FADER’S
Dalhousie boxing coach for the PH ARMACY
past two years, to coach again this | r

year. He said that the team would LIMITED

get word about the coach next
week. Turning to the question of |
boxing meets, Mr. Furlong said |
that an early match would be held |
with S. S. Aquitania at the end of
November,

A Maritime Amateur Boxing|
Championship match will be held at |
Charlottetown, P.E.I., on Novem-|
ber 20th, and it is possible that Dal |
will send a team, including Don .

Kerr, winner of the Silver Gloves SATURDAY
Welterweight Championship spon-| NIGHT
sored by the Wanderer’s Club.

Manager Furlong requested that |
all those who are interested in
boxing contact him at the lower
gym during the practice periods on
Monday and Wednesday evenings
at 7:30 P. M,

COUNCIL CONFUSED— '
(Continued from page 1)

STUDLEY DRUG STORE
29 Coburg Road

FADER’S DRUG STORE
141 Hollis St.

 

DANCING

 

Corsages
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE

speaks eloquent volumes
love.

 

of tenderness and

said, “we have not planned for
payment of coaches, and as a result will have a hard time paying
them if the university is not going
to pay. We’ll pay them of course,
but it will take some fancy financing.”

 

  

NURSERIES: Limited:..

126 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax

 

GARRICK
THEATRE

Thurs, - Fri. - Sat.
THE GREAT WALTZ

starring

THE

GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

Fernand Louise
GRAVET RAINER
Milza KORJUS

ADDED ATTRACTION
HEADIN’ FOR

HEAVEN

“The sign of a good meal’

G ;
407-409 Barrington St.

 

 
    
  
 

Badminton
Sessions
Arranged

In a recent release from the office of the physical director, John
MacCormack, stated that sessions
of badminton on the gym floor
have been alloted for the year.
There will be two periods a week,
one for regular players on Monday
night and on Wednesday night with
all six courts available for beginners. These periods start at eight
o’clock and continue until ten
forty-five. For casual play the
courts are available at any time
during the day.

There is a possibility that Dal
will engage in outside competition
with city clubs and other organizations this year. The Dalhousié Varsity Championships will be held in
February with the inter collegate
championships following later in
the month. This year the meet will
be held here at the University and
the outlook for strong turnouts
from the rest of the Maritime universities is promising.

The equipment necessary for
playing the game may be obtained
from Miss Keddy, physical directress or Mr. O’Brien, equipment
manager at the gym. Birds at the
price of twenty-five cents each and
a limited supply of raequets are
available.

As yet the position for manager
of the badminton team has not
been filled. Applications for the
position may be forwarded to the
physical director or to the president or secretary of the D. A. A. C.
Bob Knickle and Larry Levine respectively.

 

 

      
  

MY-HOW SMART
YOUR HAIR

THANKS To
BRYLCREEM/

Sold
everywhere
in handy
tubes

There’s nothing like wellgroomed hair to improve your
appearance—and make a hit
with the girls! That’s why
BRYLCREEM is so popular with
men everywhere... why it is
the largest selling hair dressing
in Canada! It instantly
makes your hair smooth, wellgroomed, attractive—without
being smelly or greasy.

GIRLS—Brylcreem is an excellent dressing for your hair
too—try it!

FREE COMB

Get a special
Brylcreem

 

pocket-comb and case! Send an
empty Brylcreem carton with your
name and address to:

Brylcreem, Departmen. SM

294 Richmond St. W.

Toronto, Ontario

ayy te lad”

 

Ea ee

 
