      
          
 

m= |Last Issue Before
| Christmas Exams
eae.

*

ip

   
 

 

 

Vol. LXXXI_

—_——- ——

 

Awards Committee
Discusses System

The Awards Committee met
Monday night to consider the present condition of awards and the recommendations of last year’s committee. Present were Chairman
Carl Dexter, Pat Snuggs, Shirley
McCoy, Bob Wilson and Bob MacDonald.

No conerete plans were announced after the meeting, except that
revisions in both the Silver and
Gold D award systems had been
considered and would be brought
before the Council in the near
future.

The report of the last committee
had recommended, among other
things, that the Gold D be elevated
to at least the equivalent of four
Silver Ds and be a Council award
to be given only for outstanding
merit. “.

The constitution of the Glee
Club was recommended for revision, as was the Gazette’s. The relation of King’s students should be
defined. The D.A.A.C. system was
recommended as a standard.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
 

Civil Service
Will Employ
hes Students

Mr. G. A. Blackburn of the Civil
‘Service Commission addressed a

gathering of interested University
students yesterday at noon between
the hours of 12 and 1.

Mr. Blackburn informed the students that their are numerous opportunities of employment, either
permanent or temporary, with the
Commission, and went on to deseribe the different types and
branches of work in the Civil Service that were available.

Mr. Blackburn went on to say
that the Commission welcomed
trained University students and
presented an opportunity to them
to establish themselves in government service with the benefits that
were to be derived from such ser_ vice, AOA) W Od

Any student who was unable to
see Mr. Blackburn and discuss the
matter of temporary or permanent
employment with him, and is desir, ous of further knowledge pertaining to this matter, is urged to
watch the bulletin board for further announcements from the Civil
Service Commisison,

Dr. Kerr To Introduce
CCF. Leader Coldwell

Mr. M. J. Coldwell, leader of the
_ C.C.F., will visit Halifax, and the
__ University December 9th. Although

   
 
   
   
   
    
 
  
  
  
  

   
 

     
  

 

4.

OMMITTEE STUDIES PLANS FOR
RESIDENCE, RINK, STUDENT UNION

 

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

HALIFAX, N. S.. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER ist, 1948

Tae
Last Issue Before

Christmas Exams

VYav

   

No. 18

 

 

% * *

Canteen Committee Slack;
Council Wants Prompt Action

By BRUCE LOCKWOOD
Gazette News Editor

After a counting of heads which revealed a quorum, the
second Student Forum in a week was called to order on Tuesday morning in the Gym. Since the last meeting, Council
President McKinney said, the Committee entrusted with the
problem of stands in the Gym had been consulting with Professor Theakston, and estimates were being obtained.

 

     
 
 

expected] that the

 

Gazette Photo by Soberman

‘

Readers will remember the wager between Art Hartling and
Publicity Director Jack Wilcox over whether or not there was adequate
publicity for Macbeth. The result having been a tie, according to an
announcement from Glee Club President Frank Bursey, the two agreed

that both should eat their hat and are seen here doing so.

Having

consumed the thing, each pronounced the other a jolly good sport and

reached for the emetics.

Past Dean of Law School
To Pay Visit To Halifax

---®

Montreal To Play Host
To N.F.C.U.S. Christmas

The National Federation of Canadian University Students will
hold their annual national convention in Montreal over the Christmas holidays.

This convention is expected to
discuss in greater detail those matters which were discussed at the
Maritime convention held at Acadia
two weeks ago.

Questions and amendments to
the constitution plus a clarification
and enlargement of their programme wil occupy a major portion of the convention.

Alton A. Lomas, Dalhousie delegate to the convention, has drawn
up a tentative programme which
he will present to the convention
for further consideration.

C.U.P. Convention
To Be In Quebec

The Editors of the Gazette will
attend the annual conference of
the Canadian University Press
which will be held in Quebee City

over the Xmas holidays. This is the}

first year in four or five that the
Gazette has been a member since it
left in 1945, after having won the
Bracken Award. .

The conference will deal with
problems met by the C.U.P. in its

attempt to rapidly distribute Uni
versity Press news to Universities
across Canada. It is also believed
Conference will discuss the
awarding the Bracken

 
   

4 %

Sidney Smith, President of To
ronto University and past Dean of! after gradu

the Dalhousie Law School, is expected to visit Dalhousie University December 7th.

He received his Law degree at
this University and returned as a
lecturer at the Law School, where
he rose to the position of Dean of
the School. From Dalhousie, Mr.
Smith went to the University of
Manitoba as President, and thence
to the University of Toronto.

While in Halifax, Mr. Smith will
visit the campus, and it is expected
that he will be asked to address the
Law students, taking time out from
renewing old acquaintances to do
So.

ENGINEERS ASSISTED
BY BENNETT FUND

The Engineering Institute of
.Canada, the national society of the
“engineering profession, has raised
an Educational Fund to assist
promising engineering students in
financing their courses.

The Institute administers the
$25,000.00 -Bennett Educational
fund, raised by Institute members,
with the idea of financially assisting those students who may require
this assistance while completing
their course at the University.

The only security required for
loans from this fund is a good
scholastic record, character endorsements, and an undertaking to
repay the loan as soon as possible
ation.

The Institute offers other services to the engineering student.
The library at Headquarters contains more than 18,000 volumes
with access to many times this
number through co-operative ar
rangements with other technical
libraries.
An employment service main
tains contact with employers of engineers throughout Canada and
supplies to these employers’ records
of engineers seeking jobs or wider
horizons in engineering. The service operates a classified advertising section of the Engineering
Journal

 

Arising out of a motion by Sherman Zwicker for investigation into
the possibilities of a new rink, a
Committee was appointed to look
into the possibility of a plan embracing the construction of a rink,
a residence and a Student Union
building, with priority given to the
most needed.

Objections to hasty action were
voiced, including the fact that the
University was still engaged in its
campaign for funds, which would
mean that many members of both
the Board of Governors and the
Senate who might favour these
projects could take no action now.
There was also the problem of reconciling any student undertaking
with the University’s overall building plan.

The meeting felt that the Committee should get busy at once, and
the following students were appointed:*"— Bob Knickle, Sherman
Zwicker, Ross Hamilton, Windy
O’Neill and Jack Lusher.

Canteen Committee Prodded

With reference to the inadequate
Gym Store, a motion was to appoint another committee to look
into the possibility of better facilities. It was announced that there
was already a joint Council-Faculty
committee, which had not met yet
because it was for the faculty
members to call meetings and they
had not done so. A motion was
passed instructing the Council
members of the Committee to re_ (Continued on Page Four) ye

Capacity Audience Attracted By
Soap Bubble Research Experiment

Old-fashioned physics methods
were used to uncover new facts of
science at the University last week,
when students heard a lecture by
Professor Sir William Lawrence
Bragg, OBE; MC, FRS, director of
the famous Cavendish laboratories
at Cambridge, England.

Sir Lawrence was the second distinguished lecturer to address the
University during the past week.
The campus was previously honored by the appearance of Sir Robert
Watson-Watt, the discoverer of
radar.

A crowded auditorium of students and technical personnel in
Halifax heard Sir Lawrence Bragg

give an account of his recent re‘searches in crystal structure, illussf trated by slides and movie shorts

of the homely soap bubble, to show
how the atoms in metals act under
stresses.

He was congratulated by Dr. G.
H. Henderson, professor of physics.
Dr. Henderson had studied for a
number of years at the Cavendish
laboratories, which enjoy a wide
reputation of high standards and
excellent work in research,

Sir Lawrence also spoke of the
work being carried on at present
in Cambridge in the study of the
solid state. He emphasized the fact
that, although reactions between
various metals are known to metallurgists, physicists have been unabel to satisfactorily account for
the peculiar properties resulting
from these combinations. One takes
these properties of metals for
granted, yet they are rather re
markable when one stops to think
of them. “A metal is strong to a
certain point,’ "he said, “but then it
will give, be deformed, and then
still possess the properties of hardness and resistance to bending.”

Sir Lawrence went on to state
that research is chiefly concerned
with the strength of metals; it is
an attempt to discover why metals
possess the combination of properties that they do. The problem is
being tackled by means of a model
of the atomic system in the metal.
It has been found that & mass of
small soap bubbles, each of a diameter of less than one thirty-second
of an inch, form a working model
which may be deformed and stress
and strain measurements made
which correspond to those which
may be made on a metal.

a oy? ' af ;
pA Sand ed apart. 5s A ee 1 Af og ag, Wiad ct PR bbe AT ra Dedede Sd

 
   
 

  

| tmngueemenl GARRICK.
Re THEATRE

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.
YEAR’S TOP THRILL SHOW

WRECK OF THE

   
 

   
   
  

 
  
 

 
 
 
 
 

   

 
 
 
 

  
 
 

CO ae HESPERUS
_ CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION. and
z a nae Member Canadian University Press pease tr IN

| Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of
Bi Vie University. Opinions expressed are not
- necessarily those of the Students’ Council. For sub
scriptions, write Business Manager, Dalhousie Gazette,

 
 
  
  

 
    
  
 
 
 

Monday, Nov. 29 — God, what a

  
 

    
   
 
    
  
  

      
  
  

  

- Halifax, N. S.. fool is this “Poo” Grunt, and his
sd Pipe. we * * * * companion, Wall-Eye, too. They do NOT ONE OXF ORD "
| Pe oa Editors-in-Chief - rant all the day about English THE ATRE “a
ris LE a D. LUSHER A. MOREIR A ruggah, which is now quite dead,| NOT TWO : f
’ 7

as winter has come, and Canadian

     
     
     
   
   
   
    
   
 
       

 

       

 
   
  

            
    

| : raat: ee “Managing Editor * Business Manager Be ey wine ea is BUT Mon. - Tues. - Wed.
< ; ‘ y they did 4
oy Ay An eee saa ROBIN ieee spend the whole time threatening RACHAEL AND THE « (&*
ae 3 bids Nae to slay Gusty MeSpike, saying that STRANGER “
Chi a Enc oD ae M. GOLBURGH he would be lucky to live to the] ~ and Bi
BRUC F f thirt ‘s, if h k
ort :—Ken ears, Valerie Cato, R. Levey, P. Simon, A. Harris, a nef fe ad oan : aaah V LEY OF THE
ep se fai Kao eo uke Se." FINE TOBACCOS || t4x7
Br bin eae a ; , ; “rugby”.
ae hn _ Assistant Business Manager: Alf Harris Did olerve ‘with ethers: hew Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.
py _ Photographers: E. Richter, Dan Soberman “Buzz WR onder a iN
. y” Bender do each year find
3 Printed by McCurdy Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S. a scholar newly come to the college THE oe
Tai her 4hk, 1988" on the hill and make much of him. ONE CIGARETTE a
: Many did laugh heartily at one
from the Canadian colonies, some ecaiscicaiienesnedelileaiatitaniaatteiaa ne

   

say Bytown, named Count Lessgen,
who has fallen before her attack. A ae
Some did say she would make a wa

fi ife, and otl hat they ae i"
dr laeenias he TIE ances CAS INO f ‘ 1
THEATRE at

Again it was said that it would be
Starting Wednesday

STUDENT APATHY

. The attendance at “the two recent student forums has

een disappointing to those who hoped that the plans of the

ae ouncil were of wide enough interest to attract more than
six percent of the student body.

23 - $uch matters as a rink, residence or student union should

_ be matters on which all students have more than mer ely an

 

 

   
  
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
     
       
 
   
   

 

It’s not too early to do

your Christmas planning.
nice to marry a girl who was good
looking and intelligent and rich >

a | - opinion, whether or not they bother to express it. too, whereat a wit did reply, “The ge eee eee ah
ne, At other Universities, here in the Maritimes, students] rich girl I marry shall be stupid ‘ re
have through their own efforts secured rinks, canteens and|and able to cook a good roast”.|J help and a deposit holds : ;

Which is, I pereeivé, a wondrous
good thought.

Much ado this day about a great
dancing party Saturday night at
the New Scotland hotel. An annual
event, it is connected in some way

_ other facilities, all of which we could use here.. Universities

are necessarily conservative where large expenditur es are

- eoncerned, and if students want a thing badly enough, they
eer ‘should start the ball rolling themselves.

At many other institutions students began campaigns

~ for such programs, and raised large sums themselves to pay

your selection.

“TEXAS,
BROOKLYN | ~. “

HENRY BIRKS & ” |
SONS LIMITED AND HEAVE he

 

 

 

for them. with a group of sisters, at least
| ¥ z ? : they are formed together in a sor-|| Registered Jeweller, American sd tai
aie At Dalhousie, however, we apparently do not want these| rity, that do call themselves the Gem Society Diana Guy ‘YT
things. We are content to see ourselvés scattered throughout | “Padded Thighs”, or some such Halifax, N. S.
_ the city, with nothing more than our classrooms in common. |"Greek-sounding name. This was ; LYNN MADISON wa
_ We are content to meet only our immediate fellows, with no| their night, which is the same each |
| common. meshing places meee ee suru Ce or ep co iad 48 do rush i f
teen which will accommodate comforta about twenty oi|lly, and many become separate « Saal al
- our seventeen hundred students. We do nak mind. bavine to| from their senses, and cents, too, Y Attrastively set: up-cepartments |
buy poor and expensive meals in restaurants, when a well run| for the dance is most costly. Featuring— ® BOOKS e
 eanteen could serve better ones for less, and keep what pro-| Home early, my head in a whirl @ MUSIC 4
; _ fits there were in the University. from listening to reasons why some ® RECORDS \,
_——sO Wee are not particularly interested in whether our teams | cowboys did win an old grey cup @® PIANOS
have rinks and fields to play on. Judging from the lack of| from the football team from By- @® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES i
af

town. To bed, my wife being out
still, with the dancing master, me
ae comment on the hockey situation we do not even care if we
have a team.

Willis Piano Co. Limited |

=e me * thinks, who will shortly receive ;

laa " . 12 7 a

os Every student body is plagued with a certain amount of eee me iy oe Pee pas 127 Gr one os (at Duke), ol
ae apathy, but Dalhousie has its own special brand. When dis-|#™° ™Y Wi: too, tor they are no HALIFAX, N.S.

Be to be suffered in their insolence.

_ cussed, students attribute it to the lack of residence, student
_ —-_~—s union, decent canteen, the University, the: Council and any— thing else that they can blame except themselves. The real

~~ €ause is the attitude of the students; the other things merely far west, looks much like a gopher,
carats assist the process. who is Peter’s son. He, of late, has

A) - Before the facilities there must be some effort on some-| been mooning about, all for his
Ba great affection for a lass, former
body’s part. Students are content to sit back and have things ,
done for them: if anything goes wrong the Council and the |!¥ °f the college on ae tity caeee
University is criticised. The Council can only act with whole- | ‘" S‘™a"se fashion, “Margerine Boil
hearted student support, and the University, preoccupied as| (0d Numbre 2-4011). They have
it is with its campaign for funds, can hardly be expected to|™¥ch in common, his hair being
bright blonde from dye from a

es turn at once to these matters, which are as much our concern :
me? papped hat worn in football, and

as anybody’s. Ailes
We will get out of Dalhousie what we put into it, and too} De” bait being bright blonde from
. well, something, I think.

Bes, 1a in nothing, and expecting too much.
a _ Many are putting ot 8, @ Dp & All things done, though, they are

Tuesday, Nov. 30— To the gym
inn wherein I saw a man from the

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited 1

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL ai
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT 4
Installed and Serviced ?

HALIFAX, N. 8S. DARTMOUTH, N. S. od

 

w ‘ .

: ee - CW eW (PDQ ALL GLU a mighty fine young people. , r r

. * ‘* OLITIC L CLUBS Another meeting of the students Dalhousie Anibersitp \ ‘
m 3 \ P A today, but again I did not go, as it ; Halifax, Nova Scotia "
is not in style these days.

Salty - ,

  
    
 
  

 

 

 
 
  
 
     
   
 
 

 

It was, we feel, an honour to the University Liberal Mir-fiic! new. bie teeth trom the Largest Staff, Libraries, and pre steels: in the Maritimes
____ Club that the Prime Minister was good enough to spare us|-Tooth-Pullers school still being The Faculty of Arts and Science |
be « wy es . 7 7 enjoys international distinction A
some of his valuable time for his address on Saturday, and| mighty dull, I for these past few Ties oe piel .
_---~—- Were similarly . gratified when Mr. Drew and Mrs. Strum] days have been forced to live on Tia hate: ees 'p a eS
spoke here. The party clubs are performing an invaluable} liquids, at which I find my fingers Bachelor of Science i agg
service in bringing such public figures to the University to] do shake mightily, and my head Bachelor of Commerce atahmicte
ie speak to the students, whose interest has been anything but} ache fiercely. Bachelor of Music — Music .
moe dis intin . i Bachelor of Education Pharmacy ;
eee! appointing. Home for supper, finding many Mantes of “Arte Hospital Pharmacy *
eter, For one thing we are very grateful; none of the speakers] calories in a gréat, huge bottle of Master of Science Mining Geology 4
- to any degree, have held up the Communist bogey as the] port, and so to bed, alone, my wife Pre-Professional Courses 4
great reason for supporting their tenets of their party. The} still away with the dancing master. Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments addresses have been without exception sound, interesting,| Wednesday, Dec. 1 — The first Inclusive Fees in vil Sa Course averagé about $186.00 a year
and almost academic. The complete absence of any tub-| day of the twelfth month, and time ia in the B.Sc, Course, about $286.00 a year rm)
thumping was a factor which will maintain student interest] for studying for the examinations| 5 609 90 “avails entrance scholarships, each of a maximum value
5 | : f : 3 aa .. | of $600.00, available to students selected on basis of record of marks
t in the speakers who come here representing political parties. | at the college on the hill. Today is} in quarterly and final examinations in Bie Maries. echool. or
pee $$ to be the last issue of the Specta-} Junior College. aero ¢
é f No + ces There wil be a Co-Vets meeting tor \early edition) until after St. Many other valuable scholarships offered through the courses.
oe in the engineering building Tues-| Nicholas Day, and many do read it |
a of dav. D Bs. with great interest, which has not The Professional Faculties
. Free skating sessions will once|“2Y: December 7 at 8.30. Law, Medicine, Dentistry, en
; e me: } always been so, ; ’ y, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.
more be made available to Dal stu-| 4!! Co-Vets are asked to attend aut tly ods Annee? °
| dents this year. Negotiations have| 24 in order to serve refreshmenis, AE AALOSY OPBEEVER: BOW FAGLy= Residences ya
y &s members are requested to bring a| C2ke¢ My-Keen-One, often mention-} Women students live in Shirreff Hall |
been going on with officials of the : ques : £ pdt dambiroar’si Gnectaer do sew Rex dences' in the D e€ ali—one of the finest Women’s
Halifax Arena and it is expected cup with them. ; : i e Dominion. Residence is provided for first year
i Areni xp appear to have come of age, andis| men in the University Men’s Residence, Other men students live ¥
stud ts ed be. me to skate most sober, which is new, and| i” either of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved
The Gym Store will pay cash for| strange. I did this day resolve to phere Special accommodation is provided for married ex-service

mas holi- pe. copies: of Madame investigate her activities in the
+ ae vet een eye Se months, which have}
rare ch Ba enrich Ae |

Meals for all students are available at the oe lc
For ful THE REGISTRAR yrite to

    
 

Pd ee ee ee,

Page Three

 

 

|. GLEE CLUB’S PRODUCTION OF

  

i,
3
} 4
a 4
L

_

>

It is with a feeling of humility that I approach the task of trying to do justice to a re- |
view of the Dal Glee Club’s recent production, Shakespeare’s Macbeth. My lack of sufficient |

By LEW MILLER
Gazette Drama Critic

| MACBETH RATED OUTSTANDING

 

I wonder if “sound” experts
might not do something to the gym
to improve acoustics? It is almost

{ . ye
, Betty Cousins, and Barbara King.
|

knowledge to enable me to form adequate standards, and my inéxperinece must necessarily | beyond human possibility to act
color my judgments, and hence my remarks are inevitably subjective.

And so, personally speaking, I think that Macbeth, directed by H. Leslie Pigot, and star- |
ring Art Hartling and Holly Fleming, was by far the most outstanding Glee Club production | noises
that I have seen in my three years at Dal. To qualify my statement I further declare that and, as in one of “Macbeth’s” solit was one of the best amateur productions that I have ever seen.

Weaknesses in the play

were more than over-balanced by its several outstanding scenes.

Dalhousie is fortunate in having
the invaluable Mr. Pigot. His
abridgement of the Senecan-type
five act play to three acts by the
linking of several scenes and the
entire cutting of several other
scenes preserved the continuity of
the play without detracting from
the averredly tampered-with version that has been passed on to our
age, The cutting of a rather long
monologue by Hecate, and indeed
the cutting of Hecate, removed an
irrelevant distraction. MacDuff appears nobler in the three act version without the scene in which he
is vilified by his wife; and without
reference to a seeming intemperate
nature Malcolm emerges as a
greater Romantic hero,

Art Hartling as the fearless, essentially noble, but ambitious
“Macbeth” impressed me greatly.
His performance was so consistently brilliant that I find it difficult to select any one scene in
which he excelled. Embryonic Glee
Club actors would do well to note
Art’s stage movements and the
natural ease with which he dominates, or bows out of, a scene.

Lovely Holly Fleming, appearing in the extremely difficult role
of “Lady Macbeth” in this, her first
major production, is truly a “find”,
The success of the production may
be attributed in no small measure
to the manner-in which she presented Shakespeare’s psychological
study of the Lady’s malevolent influence on her husband. .The subtle blending of deceitful sweetness
with violence as portrayed by Holly
made her interpretation of the

Lady exceptional. Especially will
she be remembered for her intensely dramatie interpretation of
the “‘sleep-walking” scene.

Excellently cast in the role of
“Malcolm,” elder son of “Duncan,”
was George Tracy, another thespian discovery. The couple of occasions in which I thought George
was inclined to be a trifle melodramatic need hardly be mentioned
when one considers his otherwise
splendid performance.

Frank Fleming, last year’s President of the Glee Club, and one of
the few responsible for bringing
first-class productions to Dal, most
ably portrayed the role of “Duncan,” King of Scotland.

Playing the part of “Banquo,” a
lengthy role in which it is difficult to be outstanding, Eddy Grantmyre was steady and convincing
throughout.

Warming up to his part as the
play progressed, Heber Kean, as
“MacDuff” acted splendidly in the
scene in which he was informed of
the slaughter of his wife and children,

The role of “Ross” is another in
which it is difficult to be outstanding; but playing easily and
naturally, veteran Vince Allen
handled it capably.

Special mention must be made of
the “Witch” scenes. Sally Newman,
Anita Simpson, and Nancy Allen as
the witches, teamed up with the
technical staff to make their scenes
nothing less than professional. The
whole effect left little to be desired. .

In the role of the “Porter” was

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and be Sure’. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in ‘Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

| Joyce Parker,

Alan Marshall; “Donalbain,”’ John
Reeves; Albert McMahon as “Lennox”; Dave Graham, “Sergeant’’;
John Pauley, “Angus”; Malcolm
Graham, “Fleance”; Alf Harris and
Don Urquhart as the “Murderers”;
Keith Mason, the “Doctor”; Mar
garet (Dear Ruth) Goode as the| of g sword, the adjusting of
“Gentle Woman”; Aubrey Hudson,| oy the move

“Seyton”; J. Nesbitt, a “Messenger”; Al MacIntosh, the “Attendant”; “Soldiers” were

T. Serobie, Earl Smith, Roberts, A.
Cuzner, J. M. MacCaulay; as “Apparitions” were E. Grantmyre,
Margaret Stevenson, and Ida MacKiegan; as “Attendants” were
Elizabeth Clarke,

A Complete
PHOTOGRAPHIC
SERVICE...

SUPPLIES
EQUIPMENT

REPAIRS
ASSISTANCE

the

CAMERA SHOP
of the Maritimes Ltd.
26 BLOWERS ST. 3-8524

 

 

 

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED

STUDLEY DRUG STORE
29 Coburg Road

FADER’S DRUG STORE
141 Hollis St.

 

STUDENTS

If you are planning a frat
or class party, you need the

best in music.

For the best in Halifax call
4-4450

FRED COVEY

9414 ALLEN ST.

Currently playing the Nova
Scotian Hotel supper dances

 

| without some form of amplifying
Consequently back-stage
are inevitably picked up,

| system,

iloquies, they almost detracted
} from the effect.

| Concerning distractions I should
like to mention a small point that
might be easily remedied. On several occasions my attention was attracted from the key figures by
sudden movements on the part of
supporting actors. The movement

a cape,

ment of a head-is sufficient to catch one’s attention.
When the main action is on the

Don part of “Macbeth”, for example,
MacDonald, Eric Cook, J. Anglin, rendering. an ‘

‘aside”, the supporters must give the appearance of
being engaged in conversation or

 

Meet your friends at

Sip THE
Riviera Tea Room

85 Spring Garden Road

GAUVIN &
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS

and
BLUE PRINTING

884, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

 

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

456 Barrington St.

Where you will find a
complete Music Service
and the finest

Sports Equipment.

 

|, SCENES FROM MACBETH

Gazette Photos and Layout

Oo

 

 

 

by Danny Soberman

some other action. Then it is difficult to estimate howgactive or inactive one must be. When the action centers on two or more central
figures, however, other actors on
stage must remain as inconspicuous as possible while forming integral parts of the picture.

Another minor point was that
my attention was attracted to the
faulty leg-attire of several members of the cast. It is difficult to be
flawless in strange clothing, but
leg bands at different heights on
the same pair of legs drew a bit of
mirth where it was not intended.

The technical staff is to be most
highly commended for their exeeptional handling of lighting,
mood music, sound effects, swift
and efficient property changes, and
the considerable work with little
praise that has been going on for
the past six weeks. Without the
technical staff and their great contribution the play could not have
been as successful.

President Frank Bursey,
President Frances Jubien,

ViceMr.

Pigot, and all members of the Glee
Club are to be congratulated

LLL eOL

“DANCING
SATURDAY
NIGHT”

LIKE THE NEW
HAIR DO’S

Your hair needs to be properly
cut, permanent waved and
dressed,

We do them all properly and

distinctly at

HARRIETTES
BEAUTY SHOP

98 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Mills Bldg. — 3-7022

We specialize in Footwear
that will fit every college
taste — for either service
or dress wear, for around
the campus or attending
social functions.

We cordially invite you to
pay us a visit. We present
such lines as

“Hart, “Slater” “Murray”
and “Ritchie”

SHANE’S
SHOE STORE

397 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax

      

EVERYTHING FOR THE SPORTSMAN

visit

THE SPORTS LODGE

90 GRANVILLE ST.

 
 
  
  

 

 

 

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

 

5 aie _ The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society scored again, last week,
_ with their presentation of Macbeth. It would be a mistake to indulge
- in unqualified superlatives over the production. It did not have, for instance, the technical excellence of “Twelfth Night,” put on two years
_———saago, but it is a play of a scope never before attempted by the Glee
es, "? Club, |

  

iw a

ES es There were many minor flaws such as the miscasting of seyBee rm eral lesser roles, but the play is built around the deterioration of
ie the two leading characters, Macbeth and Lady Macbeth, and Holly
ree, Fleming and Art Hartling did tremendous jobs.

Beh In fact; Macbeth was the greatest Shakespearian efort in HartNe ling’s long and distinguished career with the Glee Club. Holly Fleming’s
interpretation of the sleep-walking scene was probably the best individual piece of drama ever performed on the gym stage, and the end
of this scene, each night, was greeted with a spontaneous burst of en~  thusiastic applause. We can only add=well done, Bursey and Co.
a x 2%

The witches’ scenes of the play were startlingly realistic. It is said
that many, many girls from the Hall tried out for these parts and it
was a difficult job for Mr. Pigot to pick out the three most suitable.

‘What the public didn’t know was that head witch, Nancy

Allen, was brewing a potent brew in that evil looking cauldron,

fi from an ancient occult formula. We have no information as to its

it efficacy at the ensuing Glee Club party. The witches were so good

Re, b that they have formed themselyes into a corporation and will rent
4 themselves out to scare children and haunt houses, cheap.

of % oe Xt

 

- One of the hits of the productions was the battle scene between
Macduff (Heber Kean) and Macbeth (Hartling). It was so realistic
that on the second night Mr. Kean had built up such a hate for Macbeth that he, smote him mighty across the face with his sharp blade.
This caused severe lacerations of Hartling’s countenance, in fact, it cut
his kisser all to hell. Mr. Hartling became slightly piqued and was about
to run Mr. Kean through when he realized that this would louse up the
plot, and he didn’t feel like add-libbing explanations.

Football players may strain ligaments, hockey players may

wrench limbs and basketball players pound buttocks on the floor

but none give their blood for the glory of the old institution, so
now, compatriots, all together—
Who’s a man,

 

+ i He’s a man,

Ry He’s a D A L man,

eo - Hartling, Hartling, HRAY!!
hep % * oi

f Gordie Black, president of the local CCUF Club, reports that Mr.
_ . Mz, J. Coldwell is visiting Nova Scotia for the valley bi-election and is
making a special trip to Halifax to speak to the student body of Dalhousie, on Dec. 9. Every federal political party leader has spoken at
Dalhousie, in the space of a month. This is a significant tribute to our
university.
Hs * * %

Dalhousie has been fortunate in securing Jack Thomas, “Mr.
Basketball,” of the Maritime provinces, as coach of their varsity
basketball. Physical Director John McCormick says that this inaugurates a three year plan to produce winning hoop teams here.
Mr. Thomas is an exponent of the modern, fast-break system of the
game and there is no doubt that we will see an improvement in our
basketball fortunes. The new coach predicts that in three years
Dal will copp the Intercollegiate crown.

od * * id
~ Apropos of last week’s column, we reprint an editorial taken from
the Saturday, Nov. 27 issue of the Halifax Herald.

IT CANNOT BE DEFENDED | 4 View diametrically opposed to

: a a that taken by an almost unani
die an aae f | to impulse—and let it go at that.
wa Citizen which “sees fit to Bal Ores ican ie ne defence fF at.
jee eeeeee bw: men selling bal-| tempting to sell balloons at a Retoons at'the War Memorial (in the membrance Day service. Attempts

Dominion Capital) on Remem-| ... not made to sell balloons in

branee Day”. church or at a funeral. And a ReWe have not printed the letter! membrance Day service is equally

since, out of fairness to the writer) solemn.

of it, we believe he willbedisposed,| The Ottawa spectacle has been

on second thought, to see the mat-| described as “desecration” — and

ter in a different light. most people will take that view of
There always will be people, of} it.. As this newspaper sees it, it
course, who will sign a petition no| cannot be defended on any grounds

matter what it may contain or take whatsoever.
* * *

See what we mean!
: . # * * *

ahi The DAAC has decided to enter a team in the intercollegiate
oe . league, only if they can obtain suitable morning hours of practise.
5 There is every indication that these ice hours will be made ayailfugbe able and that Dalhousie will be ably represented in the MyA.U.
i league,

 

Give a

MACASKILL
PICTURE

 
     

Phone 4-1233
&

 
 
 

   

24 HOUR SERVICE MACASKILL’S

128 and 130 Gottingen St. 475 Barrington St.

 

    

“i :
ian VERS Mee las |

GIRLS’ SPORTS

 

By NOELLE BARTER

Well, the slate is just about clear

of sports for this term and the

usual old question is being asked,
“Where does time go?” Final thing
is the inter-class basketball game
tonight at D.G.A.C. also a tryout
for the two college teams.

Just a wee word written for——

need I say when?

"Twas the night before exams

And all through the Hall

Not a female was stirring

Not any at all.

The books were placed on the desk
with care

In hopes that inspiration soon
would be there.

The professors were nestled all
snug in their beds,
While visions of nothingness
danced through their heads
Sitting there wondering what to do
next

Whether to quit or try again with
my text

When from my clock there arose
such a clatter

oe ae : ‘ ev aoe ae at Pe ee 2 z
ee Sey aN) ee ee LC eee hype ise a

TER THIS YEAR'S HOCKEY
INTERCOLLEGIATE LEAGUE

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Ice Situation Worse This Year;
Pre-Breakfast Practices For Team

At a regular D.A.A.C. meeting
held on Friday, Nov. 26th, it was
decided to enter a Dal hockey team
in the Intercollegiate League.

The ice situation in Halifax was
reported as being worse this year,
with two senior teams operating
out of Halifax, and numbers of lesser leagues flourishing.

The meeting opened with the
reading of the minutes of the last
meeting, after which last year’s
President who was asked to be
present for that purpose, gave his
opinion of the hockey situation at
Dal generally.

I sprang from my desk to see what
was the matter

And all I suddenly knew in a flash

That somehow time and exams do
clash

Then what to my wandering mind
should appear

But the thought of flunking the

year.

Well, anyway folks, a very Merry

Christmas.

His report was pessimistic,
largely due to the fact that Dalhousie has no rink of its own, and
must rely on public rinks for practises and games, which is a difficult matter to arrange. Other Universities in the same League have
their own rinks, and have already
started not only intensive practise,
but are also playing exhibition
games. It was difficult for Dal to
compete under these conditions.

The President announced that
practise hours could be obtained at
the Arena three times a week at
seven in the morning. This was the
best of several alternatives.

The Physical Director announced
a good turnout at the last practise,
with about fifteen eligible players
included.

A motion that Dalhousie enter
the Intercollegiate League was
passed. The team will be, after all,
playing against the “have” colleges so far as hockey is concerned.

 

Gazette Photo by Soberman

The serum surges in the playoff between Arts and Science and Commerce for the Interfaculty title, on
King’s field. Arts and Science won the game and the Championship after a hard season in which Law’s
previous supremacy was thoroughly quashed, the lawyers losing almost every game they played. Referee
Don Kerr may be seen in the background, watching the ball roll in.

Student Forum -
(Continued from Page One)

mind the faculty members and suggest a meeting to see whether or
not anything could be done to improve facilities.

The motion was accompanied by
prolouged complaints about the
present facilities, and from some
students in the Men’s Residence because they were not allowed to run
a canteen.

The Personal Services was also
the subject of complaints by students who felt that it was receiving
too little publicity on the Campus,
and that the deficit incurred in its
operation might not be justified.
After some discussion these objections were withdrawn. It was
pointed out that the Service had
placed some forty thousand dollars
in students’ pockets over the last
year, and that it was felt that this
alone would justify the comparatively small operating deficit.

Other beefs included complaints
as to Library hours at Studley, a
number of students feeling that
they were far too short in view of
the fact that exams were just
around the corner. The Science
Building chimney, it was felt, produced too much smoke, which
created a definite nuisance both on
the Campus and around the neighbourhood. The Council was asked to
look into the matter and ask the
University to install a smoke consuming apparatus. *

a
a

 

 

Colorful Scarves 
To Wear Yourself or to
Buy for Gifts

EATON’S Men’s Wear Department offers a wide variety

for your selection. - Silks, rayons and wools in patterns
and color combinations galore, including the ~everpopular Tartan plaids. Each 1.95 to 5.00.

OT BION, Co sere

®

   
 

 
