         
  

 

, iy
}
¢
4

    

ae

a

Student Forsin
Tuesday
At 12.15 p.m.

a
4 : ‘ sil
[ i
4
j ; i

  

*

FORUM TO

*

 

* *

 
 

Yl

   

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

 

BE HELD TUESDAY NOON

* *

Last Gazette

Before Xmas

Tuesday

 

 

Vol. LXXXI

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 26th, 1948

No. 17

 

 

 

sx

= 8

Beste

Is Ths A Dagger Which I See Before Me?

MAJOR PRODUCTION OF THE YEAR

“DAL GLEE CLUB PRESENTS FIRST

 

Fleming and Hartling Star in “Macbeth”;
Pigot Directs Shakespearian Tragedy

 

Over One Thousand Students Fill Gymnasium
MEETING IS
ee eres To Witness Glee Club’s Effort At Tragedy

By RED LAMPERT
Gazette News Editor

HELD BY CCUF CLUB

The C.C.U.F. Convention, to be
held at Carleton College, Ottawa,
the last three days of December,

 

will have a representative from
this University in the person of
who attended

Queen’s University before his ar
George Loucks,

rival here.

It was decided at a meeting held
on Wednesday evening, to challenge the other political clubs on
the campus to a three sided debate,

like the one they had last year.

Mr. Coldwell, leader of the
C.C.F., who will speak here on December 9, will, it is hoped, be followed after Christmas, by a series
of speakers who will explain the
policy of the C.C.F. in detail. Gordon Black, President of the Club,
will contact these men.

 

McKinney Delivers Speech
On “State of The Union”

“We have more rights and privileges as a student body in conducting our own affairs,
provided we do it properly, than most Universities in Canada—certainly a whole lot more
freedom than any Maritime university that I can think of.”

This was a statement made yesterday at noon, at a Student Forum of some 200 persons,
by Russ McKinney, President of the Council of Students, in his “State of the Union” ad
dress.

“We have student government, and we have it in quite a large measure, in spite of what
some people might say to the contrary,’ he said.

Dalhousie athletics also came in
for some attention in the President’s remarks;

“Something is lacking in our
athletic set-up here. It will never
be a source of personal pride to me
that in the four years I’ve been at
Dalhousie, we have never won a
Maritime Championship in a major
varsity sport.”

“With more student support and
interest, with a greater sense of
responsibility on the part of our
athletes, we can do better.”

Mr. McKinney’s address was followed by a prolonged discussion on
the welfare of the Dalhousie student body.

A King’s College student received a thunderous ovation after he
declared that what the University
needed was a_ residence — “and
soon.”

The applause continued as a law
student proposed that the students
“Lay the blame for the lack of success of student activities directly
at the feet of the university authorities.”

The same student urged that

“ -—_—_____—“—pressure be brought to bear on the

university officials’ so that they
would act on the matter of increasing athletic facilities.

A motion from the floor by Lew
Miller was passed unanimously. It
was worded;

“IT move that the University be
urged (by the Students Council) to
commence construction of a students’ residence, and that they be
further urged to act immediately.”

After a lively discussion centred
around the question; “Do Dalhousie
students lack school spirit?” it was
decided to adjourn the meeting to
next Tuesday at 12.15 noon, (See
Page 4 for additional story).

 

EMPLOYMENT NOTICES

The National Research Council
requires workers in many fields of
science. Applications are invited
from scientists and students for
TERM and SUMMER EMPLOYMENT, For further information,
see notices or ask at Registrar’s
Office.

VETERANS
NOTICE

In spite of a reduced staff for
approximately the same number of
students under benefits, the Veterans’ Adviser’s Office hopes, by
close liason with the D.V.A. to
maintain prompt payment of
monthly cheques. In,the interest
of all concerned the Office asks
that the following conditions be
observed.

1. Two full days will be required for payment, one for Arts and
Science and one for professional
faculties.

2. When a full day is assigned
to each group, only that group will
be paid on that day.

3. Unless otherwise announced,
pay will begin on the hour and will
end so that the necessary clerical
work can be done in time for the
next pay.

4. When the number in line is

(Continued on Page Four)

The Glee Club’s major production of the year, Shake
speare’s Macbeth went on last

night to an appreciative stu
dent audience of over fifteen hundred, who packed the Gym

and overflowed into the lobby.

With Art Hartling in the title role and Holly Fleming as
Lady Macbeth the play was, from the point of view of most
students we heard, as successful as any they have seen the
Glee Club present before, if not more.

perenne cemneacepnischetireitaseunnseenelipive —_—_-__——®

‘Macbeth’, Wilcox
Wager on Publicity’

Macbeth has added the sin of
gambling to his many other sins.

Art Hartling, taking the leading
role in the current Glee Club production of “Macbeth”, has laid a
slight wager with Dal’s Publicity
Director, Jack Wilcox, that the
publicity campaign for the play
has not been sufficient to assure
the financial success of the play.

Mr. Wilcox, of course, disagrees
violently with Macbeth.

So, while in heated discussion
the other day, Wilcox was heard to
say, “I’ll eat your beret if we lose
money,” and Macbeth replied in the
best Shakespearian language,
“Likewise.”

The Gazette will have a photographer on the spot when Wilcox
eats Macbeth’s beret or vice versa.

CONSTRUCT LIME

Directed, as usual, by Mr. H.
Leslie Pigot, the play was the Glee
Club’s first attempt at a Shakespearian tragedy for over ten years
anyway, and featured the talents
of many of the Club’s regular star
performers. Art Hartling, a mainstay of the group for five years,
played the difficult title role, ably
supported by Holly Fleming as
Lady Macbeth.

Frank Fleming, former President
of the Glee Club, played Duncan,
the old King. Others who have been
heard before on the Dal stage are
Marg Goode and Vince Allen, as
the Lady in waiting and Ross.
George Tracy, a newcomer, looked
very good as Malcolm.

The play is running tonight and
tomorrow night in public performances, with tickets on sale for any
students who did not attend last
night both at the door and down
town, at Phinney’s. A review will
appear in Tuesday’s Gazette.

BINS AS START

ON ERECTION OF ARTS BUILDING

——— © The initial steps in preparation

ADVANCED STUDENTS
ATTEND LECTURE

Sir Robert Watson Alexander
Watson - Watt, noted British scientist who developed radio location,
the radar system first used by the
R.A.F, in the Battle of Britain, addressed a gathering of naval technical service personnel and students of advanced physics in the
Physics Theatre at the University
yesterday at 12 noon.

Sir Robert spoke on recent developments by British scientists in
this field to about forty interested
listeners. He is well-known in British science for his contributions to
physies over the last ten years.

for the construction of the new
Dalhousie University Arts Building
were taken Tuesday as employees .
of a local construction company
began building two pits which will
be used to store over 10,000 eubic
feet of lime mortar.

Actual construction of the building will start some time in April
or May. Professor H. R. Theakston, Dean of Engineering, and
Engineer in charge of the buildings
and Grounds at Dalhousie, said
that no definite date for the beginning of construction has been set.

The Arts Building will be constructed on the site of the old
Murray Homestead, and the present Arts Building will house the
Law faculty. Architects have been
studying the plans which are fairly
well finalized, and a tentative start
will be made this spring.

 
Vol. LXXXI

| pig, is against me.

JG

,

\

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

Member Canadian University Press

Published twice a week by the Students’ Council of
Dalhousie University. Opinions expressed are not
necessarily those of the Students’ Council. For subscriptions, write Business Manager, Dalhousie Gazette,

Halifax, N.S
# Ea * *

Editors-in-Chief
J. D. LUSHER
Managing Editor
BRUCE LOCKWOOD
News Editors
RED LAMPERT
BRUCE LOCKWOOD

A. MOREIRA
Business Manager
ROBIN MACLEAN

Features
M. GOLBURGH

Sports
P. MINGO
R. MCQUINN

hia _Reporters—Ken Pholps, Valerie Cato, R. Levey, P. Simon, A. Harris,

D. Soberman, Ralph Brooks, K. Lawley, B. MeGeoch
Circulation Manager: Don Hall
Assistant Business Manager: Alf Harris
Photographers: E. Richter, Dan Soberman
Printed by McCurdy Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S.

November 26, 1948 No. 17

THE WITCH HUNT

The lessons of the Reformation and the Thirty Years’
War have apparently not been learned.

_ Over the length and breadth of America a radical or a

radical idea is sharply dismissed as “Communist”. That is all

_ there is to it. Further assessment of the individual or the idea

is thought unnecessary. It is new, it must be “Communist.”
The only idea entertained in the hard heads of those
whose ancestors burned witches in New England is that here

‘is a new damnation to apply to anything of which they do

not approve, a new crusade to which they should attach

themselves. |
Who bothers to look beneath the epithet itself for the
objection which it represents? And who, doing so, will not

often find a hate or a prejudice which has nothing to do with
either Socialism or Russia? Or are we beginning to ape the

Russians themselves?—he who is not with me, the fascist

4

Russia has an idea to which it seeks to compel adher
~ ence, but what is our idea if not liberty of thought and expression? Or are we expected to conform to the personal
tenets of Mr. J. Parnell Thomas?

When a prominent—a most prominent man in Canadian

| politics refers to another political party as harbingers of
Communism, what exactly does he mean? Does he mean that

they are Russian agents? Or does he mean—as Marx would
have meant—that the party was composed of the leaders and
organizers of the bloody revolution? Or if these seem un
’ likely, does he mean nothing at all? Is he merely taking ad-vantage of a public confusion and a public fear for political

ends?
* ae bts x

An intelligent U.S. student told a Canadian last summer
at the I.S.S. European seminar that he was afraid that his
countrymen were beginning an absolute witch hunt, inspired
by a fear all the more fearful because they could not explain
With their outlook narrowing to the things they were
familiar with and could trust, they became suspicious and
repressive of anything which seemed new or unorthodox.

A number of societies of the loyal and patriotic variety
were indignant at the thought of Dean Hewlett Johnston
speaking at the University of Toronto.

“Why,” they said, “the man is a Communist.”

They all forget, apparently, that a higher sanction than
any they can command says that the Dean or anybody else
shall think and act as they please, within the law, and that
University of Toronto students are quite entitled to hear him

‘speak. Communist or Conservative, our tenets afford the

same freedom to all ideas and all individuals.
It is not in the fat, easy years that democracy must prove
itself, but in the lean years that are ahead, when the chal
-lenge of a new, Godless philosophy rises up against it.

’ Let it not be said of our generation, when we pass on
into History, that mob panic drove us to forsake the very

ideals we pretended to protect.
oh of ae Me

He who is not with freedom is against freedom.

Letters To The Editor

The Editors, than a jumble of figures tossed

Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear Sir,

I wish to take this opportunity
to thank Mr. Levine for his most
informative letter. I, like all Dal
students, am now satisfied that
the funds appropriated for the
noble game of “general” have
been budgeted with caution. I was
unaware that Webster listed the
expenditure of the Student Council until Mr. Levine drew it to my
attention.

I would like to suggest that the

_ Gazette carry a detailed account

of the proceedings at the Forum
benefit of those who may
find it impossible to attend on the

4th. A statement in black and

~ .
ae

rec Serene?

Rites #8

from a platform. It must be remembered that it is the students’
money that is being spent by the
executive; the students have the
right to know how and why such
expenditures have been made.

In closing, I would like to thank
you, Mr. Editor, for the attention
you have given my letters. My
humble gratitude is also extended once more to Mr. Levine.

Yours respectfully, .
James A. Proudfoot
x ok &
EDITOR’S NOTE: The Gazette
has recorded student forums for
over eighty years. It is, like paying your bills, a well established

‘eustom. = +

a

i. Fi

¥ 1 « r

fl ey ae
= * 7

in ” s 7
r ? meee
Ate Ta
: ier
» fee Oe Bese, ae

map ok” Aa Me er
a F; 7

Wednesday, Nov. 24—Good God,
what a row there is this morning
about candidates for the seat of
President in the Council of Students at the college on the hill.
Soon, the scholars are to write examinations, yet they talk mightily
about presidents,

As I can see, and as I did foretell to my wife, there are not many
willing to be connected with the
difficult task, which is worth only
one award in the sahpe of a letter.

Some do mention vice-president
Hen, but he is of the Tories and
his appearance with General Pulled is against him. And he leaves
the college this year, too.

Others do mention a mighty
young fellow named MacEyewash
which some think to be too pure for
the job of premier.

Gusty McSpike did loudly assert
that he would not take the job,
until someone remarked drunkenly
that no one would ask him.

Much disturbed that I was not a
unanimous choice, or a choice at
all, I left, sneering.

Did think, though, that it was
time to look for a new president,
for the elections, in the new manner where there are votes, and
sometimes two elections, will be
held in the Spring.

On the street, did learn that the
Spectator (early edition) would not
appear for some weeks after next
Tuesday as there is to be a long
trip for the editors, blessed be
God.

Thursday, Nov. 25 — Laughed
much this morning at hearing that
my wife wished to take another
bath this year, she already having
had one in warm water as is the
new fashion. As for myself, I
have not yet perceived a louse in
my wig, and think I shall not have
another bath till I do.

Had a call from a student of the
school of engineering and mathematiques, who tells me that my old
friend of the teaching staff there
did jokingly tell the scholars not to
worry as he always said what
would be on the exams when he
gave his final lesson.

Some do think it a trap, as he
has said nothing yet, and as no
scholars go to his tutoring classes.

Things are bad in the college on
the hill, especially where the new
sciences of cutting up animals are
taught. Great quantities of killed
eats are kept in a bin, each with a
student’s name on.

One MePill, an athlete, told me
in confidence at the Gym Inn yesterday that he has been cutting up
the same cat for three years. When
I did remark that he had been cutting up too much, he replied he did
take the course for three years
only, which is strange, as I must
needs take each course in one year,
or so the instructors do inform me.

There was held in the great
gymnasium hall today a meeting of
all the scholars, but I did not go,
as it was of no importance.

Visiting Sour’s Inn, whereat I
have once more established credit,
did hear that Breton Less-Daughter had changed his name to Gus
Molson, it having a better sound,
especially when heard by instructors and his parents, who do not let
him play too much at games.

Friday, Nov. 26— This morning
to the Dental school to have some
exploration of my mouth made by
the scholars there, which is free,
and almost as good as the real
thing.

Do now have a set of teeth
shaped like those that are found in
the mouth of the horse, but find
that I can chew well although I
perceive there will be some difficulty in learning to talk again.

Am resolved, on our next meeting, to bite the man who did this
(Continued on page 3)

~

Quinpool Road & Klin

“eg ee

\LHOUSIE GAZETTE

FOR EXTRA HEAVY
DATES

For special occasions nothing is more successful
than a handsome Arrow ensemble.

SHIRT—has Arrow collar, famous for perfect
fit. And it’s SANFORIZED labelled—guaranteed never to shrink out of fit.

TlE—easy-tying, mneat-knotting. What else
could you expect with an Arrow tie?

HANDKERCHIEF — crisp, man-sized final touch
that completes the harmony.

See your Arrow dealer’s new selection.

Look for the Arrow Trade Mark

ARROW SHIRTS

TIES « HANDKERCHIEFS

had a five spot left”

Egbert’s got that “How did I get rid of
that fin” feeling, and who hasn’t been
amazed at the way those shekels can disappear.

One thing’s sure . . . if you’re going to
make that budget work and keep the odd
sawbuck for general expenses, the best
place to keep your do-re-me is in a “MY
BANK” savings account.

Start yours today. You’ll soon be singing those money-in-the-bank hallelujahs

instead of moaning those leaky-pocket
blues.

BANK oF MonrTREAL

WORKING WITH CANADIANS
%,! EVERY WALK: OF LIEE SINCE

| o
oan wit
Uses renga

Halifax Branch: WILLIAM STEWART. M
CECIL W. McMARTIN, Asst. Mer.
North End Branch: CHRISTOPHER LONSDALE, Mer.

1817

© St.: JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mgr.
Ames ee cal 4 hoe ay.

 
     

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Page Three

TORRENTIAL RAIN RUINS FOOTBALL

Mud, mud, mud.....

 

 

*

| Dent Notes |
Wanderer’s Becomes Minor Swamp We went over to Joe’s after a

hard night’s work in the library.
As Tigers Drop Championship We waited a long time for a booth
which was occupied by some
heavyweights from Shirreff Hall.
The mere reference to a book on
dietary factors halted all mastication by the girls and they fled
back to their quarters.
The Dents are thinking about

The game at Glace Bay two weeks ago was the climax
of a season which saw as good a team work just as hard as
any in other years, only to be defeated by bad luck, more
than anything else. Nobody would deny that the Glace Bay
team deserved the game, but the Tigers had the edge of the
play for a lot of the game, and looked as though they were

going to take their opponents donating a special dressing room
ee ; ‘ to the only woman dental student

Even more so, last Saturday’s advance information. Almost con-|.
in Eastern Canada — Kay Stack.

game was the climax of a season|sistently the weather has been
in which a Dal team which has in-| bad for Dal games, with the respired more enthusiasm among a/sult that the team which looked
large number of students than| good enough to win when smart
any team we have ever seen, went | football was possible fell before
down to Navy, largely due to bad|the superior weight in the line
luck. The team had twice defeated | their opponents were able to musthe favoured sailors, but when|ter. For a number of players it
they did so they were playing | will have been their last season on
football on a field, and not aja Dal football team, among whom
swamp. The weather played ajare some of the stalwarts who
large part in their defeat. made the team the excellent one

The Halifax Weather Bureau| that it was. For the others there and he has discovered Uhat ane:
related to Little Noodnik from

the above-mentioned place. He is
now planning to break off diplomatic relations,

The third years are forced to
keep their eyes closed while the
fourth years are allowed to wear
dark glasses during the dressing
operation.

Eric Whyte has made an astonishing change in his love operations, Having forsaken the Stork
Club, he has signed up a Dental
assistant from Lower Slobbovia.
She calls him quite often now,

 

Photogs Soberman and Ritcher had a hard time getting these shots
as rain poured down on Wanderer’s during last Saturday’s game. In
about six inches of mud unidentified Navy players bring down a Tiger
who looks like Murray Malloy, who has just succeeded in bringing the
ball forward from the small lake where the play began.

has missed an excellent source of| are other seasons.

 

B k We are glad to have Miss LitOOKS Pe eA hee fy
tler back with us again and none
By Nancy Allen of us are quite as glad as Miss
MacRae,

(Student reaction in early December)

 

We’re look—look—look—look—lookin’ over everything!
Read—read—read—read—readin’ over everything—

Sam Peeps-
(Books—books—books—books, on the shelf and down again!) (Continued from page 2)
We’ve written exams before! deed, one Sask-Knell and his scholarly and ill-learned helper, Carlo
Seven—six—eleven—five—and another pile today— Clumsy.
Four—eleven—seventeen—and some more the day before— Home to bed, but kept waking,
(Books—books—books—books, try to put ’em down again!) as I found myself champing at a
We've failed exams before! bit which I soon perceived to be the

 

 

Do—do—do—do—look at what’s in front of you

(Books—books—books—books, oh to put ’em down again);

You—me—you—me—we all goin’ mad with readin’ ’em,
An’ we’ll have to read some more!

This is definitely Murray Malloy going over for the Tigers’ only
touchdown. Murray of Navy vainly tries to get in the way. At the
ends of the field the situation was a little better—only about three
inches of mud and water.

 

“DANCING
SATURDAY
NIGHT”

 

 

 

a tentative slate of Officers was
Canterbury Club Meets drawn up. All Anglican students GARRICK

It’s not too early to do The formation meeting of aj|are welcome at next meeting,
Dalhousie-King’s Canterbury Club| Sunday night at 8.30, Catherdral THEATRE

your Christmas planning. was held last Sunday night, when| Parish Hall.

 

: Mon, - Tues. - Wed. F A D E R’S
PHARMACY
isi ir MAN IN THE
A visit to Birks will : na

help and a deposit holds

: also STUDLEY DRUG STORE
your selection. Ice-Cold Coca-Cola GENTLEMAN 29 Coburg Road

haiiaicans einai ea mole ge
HENRY BIRKS & | Adds Zest to Lunch
SONS LIMITED

Registered Jeweller, American
Gem Society

Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

 

*
SYMPTOMS:
itchy feeling;
S: dandruff; dry,
Se brittle hair;
loose hairs on
comb or brush.
Unless checked
may cause baldness.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

‘Coke’

  
   
      
       
 

ar

eee

SOOO AALS LPI MOO

ve hair thats naturally
attractive...always in place!

“Vaseline” Hair Tonic does the

trick... and does it nature’s way

by supplementing the natural scalp

oils. Keeps your hair soft, lustrous,

qeeny responsive to brush or comb.

he largest selling hair preparation
g.

    

       

Plus 2¢
wartime taxes
and orders.

 
 
 
     
  
     

ada

        

Ask for it either way... both 95° : in the world. 55¢ and 95
) CANADA'S FINEST trade-marks mean the same thing. \. P
CIGARETTE COCA-COLA LTD., HALIFAX, N. S. eho ny R TONIC

 
   

 

Sabye

ie

,

 

Se eT ee a a
e My ? ra a ~, *

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

 
 
 

Probably the most discontented, irascible group of men in the
country are the Halifax tram drivers. Their baleful, pernicious looks
each morning allow Haligonians to commence the day in suitable fashion, by telling off the nearest underling or kicking the newsboy, sta
tioned outside their building, in the shins.

One drizzly night, we saw one of this group beat an old lady to
the stop where she had to wait for the next. With apologies to Wilyum
Shakesbeer the Immortal Card, for lousing up his iambic pentameter,
we imagine the Tram Driver’s Soliloquy. |

Is this a passenger I see before me,

Running for the stop? Come let me beat thee:—

Ha! You have me not and yet I see thee still,

And drops of rain upon thy cap and cloak,

Which was not so before. Now a stealthy pace,

To sneak me by that crowded stop near Sweet’s,

These very stones and rails prate of my coming,

But zounds—a vehicle does cross my path,

Fool! And now I must sound the alarum,

Hear it not, people, but it’s a knell,

Echoing surely to the depth of hell.

V’ll pass them anyway. What confronts me?

So, a poor pedestrian unwary,

I shall strike thee mighty, and it is done—

Ha! He rolls like some round object on the street.

It is this bloody work which brings the red

Thus to mine eyes—Now o’er the one-half world

Nature seems dead—some men with wives do sleep,

A lovely sleep. And now to sheds with haste,

Then, my nightly bout with grog — no time to waste!
¥ " w

Last week, two Dalhousie medical students were fortunate enough
to make a trip to Toronto-not-so-good-now, to represent Dal at the
CAMSI conference. Dick Groom, the Thane of Forrest, one of the two,
reports that they were treated crown royally. After the conference sessions were over, the delegates were shown to pews on the fifty yard
line where they witnessed the great Toronto-Western football game. As
is well known, Toronto upset the Mustangs and there followed a great
victory parade to the city hall—a relatively non-important building
near the local burleyuce house.

Dick graciously accepted a ride from his host, a Toronto Med
student, on the rear bumper of President Sidney Smith’s car.
Knowing that Sidney Smith is a loyal Dal grad and a former professor at the law school, our hero shouted—‘‘give me a “D’”.”
President Smith’s hand appeared out of the window and Richahd
shook it heartily.

A shouted conversation was interrupted on arrival at the city hall,
where Dr. Smith mounted the steps, threw his arms up in a token of
victory and shouted “I love you all.” We are told that the students also
love the former Dal man.

Groom says that the game was good and the football excellent,
but thinks that the day isn’t too far off when Dalhousie will give
either team a real game.

% * =

Miss Mowat, the warden of Dalhousie’s shut-ins, is credited with
the bon mot of the week. The Prime Minister spoke on the day of the
Dal-Navy final game and the decorations of the stage were surmounted
with a sign yelling “Sink the Navy”. Miss Mowat, on seeing this, turned
to her neighbor with a sly smile and said, “Gracious, is THAT a new
plank in the Liberal’s platform?”

* # 2%

Responsible publications have noted the decline in influence of
newspaper editorials. The editorial writers, through their boards of
directors, have too many axes to grind for people to put any trust in
what they have to say.

For years, Nova Scotians have been subjected to that inane,
thoughtless torrent of drivel that flows from the editorial columns of
the Halifax Herald and Mail. It is irksome to thinking people who usually pass it with a shrug and a smile.

But, last Thursday, this publication reached a new depth in
irresponsible editorials in a piece called “Want Freedom To Destroy
Freedom”. Here, they take the side of the B. C. Law Society which
has recently barred a graduate of the University of B. C. from
practising law, because, he openly ayows himself to be a communist.

“People who prate of ‘freedom and civil rights’, and at the same
time embrace Communism, must have strange mental processes—” says
the item, What strange mental processes has the writer of this piece
who mention freedom and censorship of political theory and of speech,
in the same breath. There are various breeds of communists in this
country. Surely the editorial writer should know that all Canadians are
not satisfied with the present system—there is poverty in our country!

One of the basic tenets of our democratic system is to let ALL
speak out — “crack-pots” and ALL —and the majority political
thought will rule. Joe Howe was considered a “crack-pot” but he
had the courage of his convictions. This B.C. law student speaks
out; he has the courage of his convictions too. The sinister communists are those who deny that they are communists.

Freedom of speech is fastly becoming a luxury for the financially
secure. If we want to shut up communists and other radicals, let’s pass
legislation declaring a national emergency and make it legal. The
writer of this column is certainly not a communist but we have the
courage of our convictions and abhor such thoughtless articles, as that
in question, which are dangerous to what democracy is left. We suggest
that the motto for all Canadians should be the one expounded recently
by a great Christian leader, “Love communists but hate atheistic communism.” With a little Christian charity we may yet preserve freedom
of speech in our great country.

 

  
 
 

 RRaeRT eT Nes eed oe a ‘ ;
rae f ¥ S ;

 

 

RECOMMENDED

Athletics Receive Boost As Committee Appointed
To Approach Senate With Request For Stands

The subject of bleacher seats for the gymnasium was
brought forward at the Students Forum, held last Thursday,
the 25th of November. The problem was placed before the
students by Scott Morrison, who stressed the urgent need of
adequate seating facilities in the gym. The collapsible type of
bleacher was recommended (see cut), which call for a seating
capacity of eight hundred people with an assembly price of
about eight thousand dollars. The students after hearing a
long discussion on the subject, passed a motion that a committee be formed to approach the senate with the offer that
the Students Council were prepared to dig into their sinking
fund to cover part of the expenses.

—-——————& This is the third effort made in

aS many years by the students of
DAL GRADS DEFEAT badhiets “Uutvevules a "aban
LIVERPOOL IN bleachers for the gym. In 1945 the
EXHIBITION GAME

Council was prepared to forgo the
total cost of the stands themselves,
but due to the reluctance of the

The Dalhousie Grads Basketball grounds committee and the senate
team travelled to Liverpool on/to undertake such a project, the

Wednesday evening to play an ex-] matter was dropped. Last year the

hibition game with the Intermedi-| same thing happened,

ates of the Liverpool Community

Club. It was a highly successful

evening for the Grads as they de
This year the result of the lack
of sufficient seating accommoda
OLLAPSIBLE STANDS

oO —_—

feated the home team by a score of
52-32,

During this time the Intermediates were held scoreless; as
the Grads showed their ability in
passing. The score at the end of
the first half the Grads held a 23-7
lead.

The play was also in favour of
the Grads during most of the last
half but Liverpool surged forward
in the third quarter and a splurge
in their scoring netted them twelve
points. However they could not sustain the drive and three quick baskets by Cunningham put the Grads
in front again with a commanding
lead, The final score was 52-32.

Dal Grads: Sweet (1), Haley
(4), Tomarelli (6), Griffan (6),
Woodward (4), Cooley (3), Farquhar (2), Connoly (7), Cunningham
(17), and Brown (2).

Dal Badminton
Champ Plays
Exhibition

Last Wednesday evening at
Liverpool, N. S., Noel Hamilton,
the university and intercollegiate
singles champion badminton player,
played an exhibition match against
Don Bauld, the Maritime senior
singles champion’ for the past two
years. Although Don captured the
best of three sets in three straight
games, Noel made the champion
jump as the sets went 17-16 and
15-12. Both games were hard
fought with no quarter given on

 

tions was severely felt when last
Thursday evening, during a basketball game, many people were turned away from the gym because the
seating capacity was filled. Of the
eight hundred who were lucky
enough to get into the gym, only a
small percentage were in a position
to see the game clearly. The building is large enough to hold over a
thousand, and with the new stands

Courtesy Universal Stands
... Bleachers for Gym

 

IN GYM

 

 

it could easily accommodate that
number,

The bleachers recommended by
Mr. Morrison are made of wood
with steel supports. There will be
five possibly six tiers of seats and
when collapsed they will project
about two feet from the wall, with
a flat surface facing outward. They
will be extended along both sides of
the gym and may possibly be removable from one position on the
floor to another which lends itself
to the idea that they could be placed along the end of the building in
order to carry the overflow for the
D.G.D.A. performances and other
functions.

Dal Curling Club
Will; Hold Meeting

All students who are interested
in curling this winter are requested to meet in the Physica! Directors office, Tuesday, November 30,
at 12 o’clock, noon, according to an
announcement made by Ken Faulkner, manager.

This is the second year the Curling Club has functioned in the
university. Last year they carried
out a very successful program and
this year a more extensive program is planned and a large number of curlers are expected. The
Halifax Curling rink has been obtained for the use of the students.

 

 

RRR,

  

aad

cd

 

a

suggestions for everyone!

selections are better!

EATON’S

Do Your
Gift Shopping
at EATON’S

OUR Six Large Selling Floors are teeming with

ery

 

tint Fi oan

me ¢ ¥ f eR er Hee

Buy NOW while

= Shopping Service +

Telephone or drop a line to the Shopping Service.— o

D.V.A. CHEQUES——

Continued from Page One
unduly large, those who can do so
will assist by coming at a later
hour.

5. Alphabetical order will assist,

6. Business requiring office time
or reference to files should not be
discussed on pay days.

7. Personnel missing the regular
pay-day should apply as soon as

a4 .
sets Oe

ie
4
i
a

1 3 i ey te ‘ +e a
ot ee WR ed Sieh pen AN > b

possible after the second day.

8. Names and amounts should
be checked before a receipt is signed. Cheques for the wrong amount
should be accepted and application
made to D.V.A. for adjustment as
also application for missing
cheques.

9. All pay parades will be held
in the Men’s Residence in the hall
outside Room Six.

either side. Both men were given
a great hand as they left the court. | #

Noel Hamilton, a M.A. student| §
at Dalhousie is one of the finest
intercollegiate badminton players| .&%
in the circuit and has been instrumental in bringing the Mercer Cup,
emblematic of intercollegiate badminton supremacy in the Maritimes, back to Dal the last two
years in a row, LL REE RE RE RE RS tee Bee Re

p Experienced Shoppers will make selections for you ‘

and. forward your purchases to addresses provided. 5

| ¢T.EATON.Co

Bed,

Ps y ys toe Sm f . A .
ee 7 ; on Bj ms Sie thy Bar L bef

 
