 

  
   
 
  
 
 
    
     

 

2 aT
- “s ye ee Se SE
“ rs

 

 
   
  
     
  
 

 

HISTORIC BOTTLE—Shown above is a photograph of one of the
most historic bottles in Halifax history. It is the first bottle sold in a
Halifax grog shop. Originally, the Halifax Wail photographers Jollyfellow and Junior Crotchby had intended to take a photo of the bottle
before and after, but the “after” picture. was too blurred to be printed.
However, it is agreed that it was a highly successful bottle.

Vishinsky Backfires And Blasts
Allied Air Lift Bean Shipments

MOSCOW, Oct. 21 — (PU) — TASS, the official news
organ of the Soviet Organ, announced today that Vishinsky
has alienated the Security Council members by challenging
their motives in flying beans to the German people through
the air corridor.

 

>

 

 

BERLIN, Oct. 2i1—(PU)—The
Russians today protested against
an American announcement that
they will supply the German
people with bigger and better
Boston beans. They charged it
would be a dangerous violation
of air safety rules.

“We have protested against
this because we feel it will definitely create an unfavourable
atmosphere between the German
and Russian nations,” said Vishinsky when addressing members of the press.

Soprano Plays
Fairy's Role

ROME, Oct. 2i—(BURP)—Conductor Ivan Apple of the Metropolitan Opera House has announced
discovery, of the “highest-ranged
male voice the operatic world has
known in over one hundred years”.
Rumour has it that the 32-year-old
MacCormack’s first appearance will
be as one of the fairies in the
forthcoming production of “A MidSummer Night’s Dream”.

Court To Recommend Grease And
Make Gravy In Margarine Probe

Ottawa, Oct. 21 (BURP) — Ac-&————cording to usually well-informed c
ollaborators

sources in the Canadian capital, the
Find Hide-Out

Supreme Court will recommend the

use of beef drippings rather than

ni tt ti

ay 3 alow a at Slab ape seca Ottawa has received a note from
Paris asking for the deportation
of the Vichyites hiding in out in

for hungry Canadians. The Supreme Court is expected to make a

Quebec. The Ottawa answer to the
note states that since they are pre
lot of gravy on the decision.
Chief Justice Rinfart, at home

with a a yee ae nine vs occupied with troubles in the Mari
oe a a ka Sake times all available troops are con
ne fee Sten ture centrated on the New Brunswick

Minister James Garden concerning border and cannot be spared to

the development of a new water- fevada the Republic of Quebec,
which could divert its task force

_Continued on page 4

 

He further accused that the use
of Boston béans by the American
Continued on page 4

 

proof bread. The proposed butter
ners <8? aa not soak into the
new bread. > |

2 Petah

 

Fraser of New |have said that margarine wouldn’t
Prime Minister melt in Canadian mouths, when he
reportec to eee w

 

se Ae i ‘
A bea fre) es CON ee a ee

WHAT CITY COUNCIL
DID LAST NIGHT

4,

DAMN LITTLE!

Ramesses

WIREFOTO fe wirefoto shown above

through the facilities of The Halifax Harold
and The Halifax Wail and is the only one of its kind appear
ing in a Halifax daily newspaper today.

| THE HALIFAX WAIL
"FREIGHT RATE HATE
HAS BELATED FATE

(penne 5 - 5 2 *

WEATHER
FORECAST
Issued by Halifax

Whether Office at

10 a.m. Valid at

no time.
RAIN, As Usual

 

No. 7

 

Prime Minister Knows

What's Best For Us”
Says Maritime Members

OTTAWA, Oct. 21 (PU)—The demands of the seven
premiers for an investigation of the recent granting of freight
rate increases to the railways has finally been brought to the

attention of Ottawa officials.

One official said here tonight that he had heard vague
rumors of some ridiculous attitude of dissatisfaction in the

 

was obtained

(ACNE)

French Premier Resigns Every _
Saturday; Avoids Big Issues

by WITLESS MacKENZIE
BURP News Analyst

PARIS, Oct. 21 (BURP)—Demands that Premier Quill
resign were met last Saturday when~he actually did. There
was great relief throughout France as a result, and thou
sands of workers turned out of®

their shops to celebrate with the
~—|Guarde National, in the new American Uniforms. The celebrations
have become a little disorderly, but
it is hoped that things will settle
down in time for the next resignation next Saturday.

Ever since the Revolution there
has been a resignation on Saturdays to divert the populace on the
weekends, especially since De
Gaulle has been calling for better
relations between France and England to be recognised by French
participation in “le weekend anglais.”

The French weapon in International relations is now to settle a
erisis by having the cabinet resign;
by the time a new one is in power
the crisis is settled.

eee ee ee ee

Werness Bi al
On Dry Island

LITTLE CURRENT, ONT., Oct.
21.— (UPU) — Justice rained supreme in Little Current, Ontario,
as four hotel owners were dismissed on charges of selling intoxicoting liquors-on the “dry” island of
Manitoulin.

A group of three men admitted
drinking beer and wine in a hotel,
but strangely did not remember
who served them or if anyone indulged. They also claim that they
do not remember paying for the
drinks.

With no proof of actual sale
shown, the benevolent hotelkeepers
of Manitoulin Island returned to
their happy hunting grounds.

| Maritimes, but learned of their concentrated demands for an
|investigation only today.
Si —————@ First reports came when it was

learned that premiers of seven outback provinces were camped in an
Ottawa hotel, sending reports to
their respective domains that the
inquiry was well on its way, and it
would soon cost nothing to ship
fish by rail to Ottawa.

The Prime Minister said that
these reports were ridiculous; “We
don’t want fish here at any cost,”
he said, “look at what they’ve sent
to parliament already.”

Nova Scotian M.P.’s said they
could not comment on the situation, but added, ‘‘We’re sure the
premier knows what’s good for
us.”

Most ministers here were astounded to hear of the premiers’
attitude. “It is a very silly attitude,” a member from Ontario said.
“T live in Hamilton and it costs me
very little, even with the freight
rate increases, to send my product
to Toronto. I can’t see why the
Maritime and Western provinces
should feel that the arrangement
isn’t ideal. Besides, I’m a shareholder in the railway.”

In Halifax, opinion was that
Nova Scotia was getting a raw
deal, and that freight rates in general should be outlawed, with the
cost of railway operation paid by
taxation.

 

Expect Change

In Department
After Fiasco

A big shakeup in the department
is expected following the acquittal
of Ol Crowbar, accused of polishing up shady characters in Halifax.
The victim was found in a Gottingen Street backyard last spring.

In his address to the jury of
“twelve good heads and dead”
Counsel Youngfellow mentioned the
happy family life of the accused,
which so disturbed the jury thinking about their own family life
that they almost decided to put the
accused away for good. In view
of Youngfellow’s extreme youth
and good looks, however, they
brought in the verdict which sent
Crowbar back home again.

Friends were last seen congratulating Youngfellow on the superb
ease for the defence presented by
the Crown Prosecutor.

 

 

 
 
  

‘

* elas we *

fo: yer in the same At with the rest of the Maritimes, and is
fax, and any other silly cause that lacks a champion.

iedeagtitie gd 4s " at For the cause that lacks assistance,
niin a WR vais, From the wrong that needs resistance,
MPN For the future in the distance,

  
  
 
   
  

i ; ' And the drinks we get for free.
im a Wa wow
‘Halifs Wail is’ ublished | yearly by the Dalhousie Gazette Halifax Wail Co. of some
is St, Halifax, Canada. Subscription rate everywhere except in the British
$5.00 ee ar ‘Address all communications to the Shrine, Sackville St.

  
   
 
   

  

\

   
 
  

Ree eerie | AON “This ls Sidicolbies
4 An announcement of particular interest to Halifax as a

ome ritime city on the side of a hill has been made by the Do: + ‘ior Re Weather Office. It is that-Winter may be ex
  
   
  
 

th the coming of Winter, we may expect snow, and of
. There i is ean h ice in ee in aug

 
  
 
 
  
  

thare: he’s no S indeanairebandins — this newspaper’s
U. i have fine sand liberally sprinkled on Sackville
OO: ee set, ae nothing to do with injuries suffered by this writer

F Reventy years ago when he slipped on the icy cobblestones.

ey ny It is a matter of national importance, and should be conai "sidered as such.

| Today, many of the real important issues are obscured
Ns ay “by newspaper and radio reports of disturbances in far-off
Mii _ lands which are of little significance to us in Nova Scotia.

San 1s, 4p
* eH
Ki

   
  
 
     
  

ris It is time those in power in this city realized that the
ae SW iy conservative people of Halifax will not stand on icy
Na cer : ipapensend It is time the, work’s department bought some
ts The \ te We Sans:

Aye te Me “And it is time we pilratdated the Weather Bureau for
hee their timely warning.

 

And So Is This

Neate z ie Another one of these troublesome situations is about to
pan a if rise in the city. With the advent of the new trolley coach sys
_ tem, we are to be faced with the problem of old men, with
PRS forty and sometimes fifty years tram car service, driving
cae es,

Bed ' ot is apparent now that some of these people have great
Pah - difficulty keeping out of accidents when the vehicles they
ik i ap _ operate are capable only of travelling along a narrow track.

_. What, then, we may well ask, will be the result when
these same men are turned loose in city streets in large,
thy ‘Speedy vehicles capable of travelling all over the road?

~ . -'The lives of pedestrians, already precarious, will be in
| imminent peril at all times. Some of these men, accustomed
_to racing along the middle of the street, clanging bells and
__- swearing, will become dangerous additions to the heavy traffic
of our crowded streets.

Wa i } It has been excellently suggested that the army over
ie Maa came this danger by providing governors on the motors of
the army vehicles which prevented their travelling at too
great a rate of speed.

“tear WAP es

_ Why could the trolley coaches not be governed, so that
AED ML they could go no faster than the present tram cars? ? This is
_____ the obvious answer to the problem.

eee. Np

And This Is Stupid

Ra AS This Lord’s Day Treaty group has rightly protested the
s use of Sunday as a day for games. It is a day of sanctity and
rest. In this city not only are all dens of iniquity such as beer
dens and drug stores closed on Sundays, but so is everything
-' else. Even some churches are closed, in deference to the
Wieser sanctity of the day.

creas ha It should be thoroughly understood by civic authorities
that Sunday is a day when everything must be closed. No
one has ever tried to do anything on Sunday here. Why
should they start now? That is the question, and the answer
Sia i is that. what was good enough when there was nothing to
Wan NL Ti _ open: is good enough now when there is.

JEWELLERY

Birks have designs
and prices ready for
group orders of pins

 

‘ var ' HALIFAX
1 LS eee pee : for any society or class
ame iy at Dalhousie.
faa oi ne ee Why not come in to
at E Side FADER’S talk it over?
HOw, _ PHARMACY of
| _ LIMITED HENRY BIRKS &
SONS LIMITED
| Registered Jeweller, American

Gem Society
_ Halifax, N. Ss.

   

re ee

    
  
   
 
  

 

Points By Pots

WHAT'S NOT IN THE NEWS
AND SHOULDN'T BE

By Runner-Up

All sorts of things are not in
the news these days — and they
shouldn’t be, for a number of reasons. Only the other day a friend
wrote to me to ask if this were
true, that Halifax was now on a
par with such unholy cities as
Montreal and Toronto, and had
liquor dens licensed by the Government.

Yes, unfortunately this is so.
But there are worse places than
that in Halifax. You should see
them.

Sum AU oc

Halifax is a busy place these
days with the Bicentennial celebrations coming up next year. Rumour
has it that as a special concession
to tourists there will be special
stards where they can obtain
drinks on showing their passports.
Last year local people drank
everything reserved for tourists,

while everyone knows that they |

no one knows, but the Dr. himself
exepected to find Messozoic crustacearns. What he did find he wanted-to keep dark, but we wormed it
out of him.
qj q] {| q

Long ago and far away a gal
leon had dropped a case of the best

which the Doctor and his assis‘tants unearthed near the Digby

Firs Roadhouse. On making the
discovery they had retired from
civilization to investigate further.
Unfortunately- no evidence is left,
it all having leaked out somewhere.
eo ARs. 0 Ary eae

Latest favourite recipe around
Halifax is baked juror’s fingers;
everybody is after this nice new
dish since the verdict in the trial
was made public. There was some
talk of pickling their brains until
it was found that they hadnt’ any.

One housewife has tried the re
are not supposed to be drinking at|cipe for fish and brews contained

all.
HOM EN Met sl q
Speaking of old fossils, the
other day Dr. O. Swineheim ram in
from Digby where he has been excavating for evidence of ancient
remains. What these remains are

Halifax Down The Years

 

with pusser rum,

 

on these pages. Unfortunately we
left out the part about lace heavily

heavy going. Emerging from the
hospital she was heard to say “Do
not trust the Wail.” This is quite

unnecessary.

SHIVIC IMPROVEMENT LEAGUE
COMMENTS ON BEER SITUATION

by Seldom

Taverns are nothing new to
Halifax, some people to the contrary. In 1749 Halifax began when
a hooch shop was set up, which
brought all the Indians down this
way. When the white settlers heard:
of such a good thing, they put the
Indians in reservations and came
here themselves, and put up
churches to mark their claim — a
habit these settlers had.

In. the early eighteen hundreds
these churches caught up with the
settlers, who by this time were
making quite a thing of taverns,
and closed them all up.

The Speak Era

And thus Halifax became known

|| as the city of Speakeasies, as pri| aan. (t were set up to

combat the growing scarcity of
beer and similar commodities. The
speaks, as they were known, later
moved to Cape Breton and New
York when the Province caught up
with the rest of the area and introduced by Act of Parliament legal beer. The bill which brought
it in was entitled “Let the Government Make the Profits”
which, by God, it did, driving up
the price something horrible.

But it must not be assumed that
the prohibition era was bad for all:

many of our now prominent citi
zens and pillars of siciety and
church made great hay while the
pure sun of prohibition shone.
Their descendants have lived to
bless the wisdom of those who kept
out beer for a while.

     
  
 

and she found it i.

Russia Foiled
by Dr. Blurbie Stewpot

Having followed with great interest the progress made by the
Conservative Party at the Convention it is with heartfelt relief
that we hear that the Leader of
the Party, Hon. John Heather,
confided to a few friends that his
party would oppose Russia.

It matters not that the Party
has nothing else on its platform;
the signal issue today is the opposition of Communism. It if is not
stopped today, for all we know
the beer parlours may become
liquor taverns before we know it.

Maritime Rights are indissolubly bound up with the rentention
of free enterprise, and with the
Conservatives in power Nova Scotia may always be sure that Communism will step no further than
the borders of the Curzon line,

The Party has been blamed by
some for its lack of a comprehensive plan for moving Upper
Canadian Industry to the Mari‘imes, which might mean revival
here. This does not matter: once
the Communists are in their place,
the freight rates will cease to be a
source of confusion, and margarine
will be settled by the Supreme
Court,

LS ESE A ET ES ERAN

 

Wed., Thurs.
“The Virginian”
“Song of the Thin Man”
Fri, Sat.

“Waterfront at Mid-night”
“Fiesta”

GARRICK
THEATRE

 

      

MAY~HOW SMART
YOUR HAIR

THANKS To
BRYLCREEM/

Sold
everywhere
in handy
tubes

There’s nothing like wellgroomed hair to improve your
appearance—and make a hit
with the girls! That’s why
BRYLCREEM is so popular with
men everywhere... why it is
the largest selling hair dressing
in Canada! It instantly
makes your hair smooth, wellgroomed, attractive—without
being smelly or greasy.

GIRLS—-Brylcreem is an excellent dressing for your hair
too—try it!

FREE COMB Get a special
Sate See Bryl creem
pocket-comb and case! Send an
empty Brylcreem carton with your
name and address to:

Brylcreem, Department SM

294 Richmond St. W.

Toronto, Ontario

sy yiteelaie

CO eS ee) ee Se Tae

 

 

   
  
“oye eee eee

1s Re te Ly gah Om : Aa (Pees ee NG
Kt S/he bat AAA A ' re og a ik eres S7 lew Se vil
an < J a +, tn re ts q 4 e ri , ; , os }
he Leary - AY hi ’
eR ee ek

\ ne =m,
\ fee a ilar ls ,
hy Y yy 2 1 a9 vie / os
Ts% ge ‘1% y hile 2 ; :
Vg ‘

2d SE Att

my iL a
. iio a
tt
i‘ . . A
i
Ff FF

; i
f ni
ee

¥/

be
1 hi
e iu
eo
\

   

With the coming of Fall, people interested in hiking are taking to the woods in and
- around Halifax—and some of them should. Only yesterday we saw several young students
from local colleges and universities walking in Point Pleasant Park, and we thought of the
old days when we only walked to the Park, never in it. There were more interesting things
to do in those days. Of course with the advent of the New or Old Look, things are getting
mysterious and interesting again — and the boys are taking an interest in the Look. This is
gratifying, and we may look forward to a resurgence of the old days, and the homey little

Cae rela rye

 

 

 

parties and outings.

We note that Miss Hopeful
Johnson gave an interesting account of her experiences in Paris
last week at an exchange school
course. It is a sad commentary on
the case of the press today, when
we discover that the full text of
her confessions — pardon me, experiences, could not be sprinted.
They were very interesting, too,
and made me think of the old days.

— J. Grunt.

Little Helpers
Hold Police Tea

The Halifax Police Department
held their annual tea social yesterday at the Hollis St. Little
Helpers Group. As for many years
the tea being arranged in good
time, things were prepared to perfection and Halifax’s Finest found
everything in order.

Madame Fifi met the men, enshrouded in a stunning lace ensemble of robins egg blue, adorned with four pink carnations taken from the front lawn of Province House. All the Little Helpers served tea resplendid in the
Time Immemoral Look of many
hues.

Chief of Police Reynard was presented with a donation from the
girls as a token of their appreciation and esteem for privileges accorded them in the past. A delegation inspected the new decora- tions, recently completed, in the
interior of the house, while the
others indulged in a ripping game
of poker.

The visit completed, the Force

 

left promising aid to the Group in

their new drive for funds and ex_ pressing the hope that they would
be invited again for their yearly
tea so the present amicable rela- tionship between the two organizations would be continued.

a hh ee eee

Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Gadfly and

daughter Darool, of Cowburg Road
recently entertained Miss Iva Nhoe

who had been a summer visitor to

Cape Breton and has never been

her old self since. She said she
thought she was in a strange new)

country while in the Island, and
her innocence of the ways of the
inhabitants led to her downfall socially.

 
 
 
 
 
  

HILDEGARDE HICKS

 

Dear Hildegarde Hicks: My husband beats me over the head with
a metronome. He also wets my side of the bed every night. As a result
I have developed a chronic bronchial condition and dizzy headaches.
He also has a hairy chest which tickles. I am considering divorcing him
and going into business for myself. What do you think?

DAMP VAMP

Dear Damp Vamp: I think that your husband is good for nothing
and that you should get in touch with Dr. Kinsey immediately.

Noe esaatredaceranieennsetlls

OLDBITUARY

DARK CORNER, Oct. 22 —
There passed away today at her
home in this eommunity, near
the church, at the age of 52.

A member of the community
for 52 years, and respected for
the first 14, she was ian ardent
follower of bacchus and kindred delights, having a lively interest in all matters pertaining
to the police and especially the
morality squad.

She attended classes at Cloverdale Academy several times before she was forced to abandon
her education. She was not a
member of the W. M. S., nor was
she, able to attend church often,
Sunday usually being her bad
day.

A trusted friend of the towns’
businessmen, she acquired a reputation for showing people a
good time.

She is survived by a wide circle
of friends and about 55 grand
children.

Funeral service will be held

from her home, conducted by an

old friend and interment will
take place eventually.

   

Dear Hildegarde Hicks: I am
having an affair with a boxer.
However he has an unfortunate
habit of chasing cats. What can I
do to break him of this habit?

DOG EARED

Dear Dog Eared: Get him a

mouthpiece.

Dear Hildegarde Hicks: My husband cuts his toe-nails in bed, and
after 10 years of marriage there
is a deposit of sediment at the foot
of the bed. What should I do?

SCRATCHED

Dear Scratched: Either change
the bedclothes or get a shorter
bed so that his feet will stick out.

CITY NEWS

BICYCLE LOST — Able Seaman
John O’Myboils of H. M. C. S.
Stupendous reported to city police
last night that he lost a new red
man’s bicycle while proceeding from
shore to ship.

 

BRUISES ASS—A member of the
Halifax Longshoremens’ Association told port officials that a Kentucky ass, one of a shipment of the
animals en route to Astrakan, had
been bruised when struck by a
loading dolly at Pier 21 yesterday. at

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

... that for a mild, cool, sweet smoke . . . there’s nothing

to match a tobacco expertly blended from high grade
Burley leaf. He knows that Burley is a tobacco that
packs easily . . . burns slowly, leaving a clean white
ash . . . a tobacco that stays lit! He knows that it meets
the real test of mildness—he can smoke it all day long.
Isn’t this just the tobacco you are looking for? Try a pipe of

 

INTERESTING MARRIAGE ARRANGED — The arrangement of a
marriage of wide interest to many friends and acquaintances in the
Maritimes was announced yesterday by the bride’s father, Aintit A.
Shame, of Lower Southwest Port Mutton. The marriage of Omy
Shame and Donald Deadbeat, son of Captain and Mrs. Weer Deadbeat,
was held at St. Anne de Sackville Cathedral yesterday, conducted by
Rev. William Tell. Shortly after the marriage the happy couple left
in a hurry on their honeymoon trip to Halifax, The above picture shows
Mr. and Mrs. Deadbeat just after they arrived here.

 

     
  

  
   
     
     
 

     
   
   
 

i}
it
Hy

|
i
}

Hi
SO
Ly

o a

}

 
   

}

——_ ~*~ =— «

ae « « « “lL wonder if this is the
&” Strength of Materials lab”

Looks like Egbert’s mixing up his
stretches and stresses.

He may be a bit off the beam when
finding new classes, but he’s hitting on all
six when it comes to financial matters. He
knows the smart way to prevent that
summer-earned do-re-me from becoming
“you owe me” is to keep it in “MY BANK”,

Open your account today, and, with
your gold dust in the B of M, you'll soon.
be walking on the sunny side of the street,

TO A MILLION CANADIANS Tes

BANK OF MONTREAL

WORKING WITH CANADIANS
WALK OF LIFE SINCE

YIN EVERY
“ena, Se
aye
u3s-3 RSG EAS

1817

“EXPORT”

CANADA'S

i)
5

i
a FY ;

ay
| ; 4
J
q ‘
_ |
|
af
A
f

Halifax Branch: WILLIAM STEWART, Manager
CECIL W. McMARTIN, Asst. Mgr.

North End Branch: CHRISTOPHER LONSDALE, Mer.
Quinpool Road & Kline St.: JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mer.

icobac

  
 

FINEST

CIGARETTE
 
   

"See

a nas PERCEPTION

yright by Red Smith, Dan earne Baz O’Meara, Jim Coleman et al.

* *
es ‘ Ae ot Dalhousie Wins Silly Canadian Game
--—s- T couldn’t believe it, but there it was in black and white—
e ig _ Someone had dared to write a story for this paper about Dal_ housie beating the Gawd-almighty Navy 15-0. Having been
back from the WORLD SERIES for only about ten days I was
in no condition to see the game—in fact I don’t go to the
games anyway, I have little people who tell me about them.
Apparent there was some interest in the game somewhere, someVee about spirits at Dalhousie I believe, so I allowed the story to
| meprinted.
It was a great thing for the Canadian game to have somebody win
- doeontest, there is nothing like somebody winning a game to increase
Di seal in a sport. 7
me # *

ae eet | Good Old English Rugby
* 4 English rugger is played everywhere. It is the GRAND
‘OLD GAME, and is played usually, by GRAND OLD MEN. It
ne jay is expected that a league, consisting of Arrows, Capitals, Shipyards and those fine lads from Acadia will be in operation
shortly, or sometime, or maybe never, but soon we hope.

They will import high-priced players from the professional
English teams. Harry Butler will be president, as usual, and Lou
Multiplier will be treasurer, also as usual. Plans are afoot for construction of a $1,000,000 stadium to be erected by the city as part of the

bicentenary extravaganza. It should be wonderful.
4 2 fay fa tet.” ae ee

Pie ee a _ Wrestling Still Profitable
aaa 2 _I must now write about wrestling. I must now write about
SPR _-—s wrestling. I must now write about wrestling. And go on for
500 lines on my little blackboard.

Everybody is making lots of money on the lively sport of

    

 
 

  

 

eb aah: ‘
oy wrestling. Take Millie Brack for instance, the world womens’ wrestling
ae champion. Fine girl, that.
bp ae ao She visited this department this week. She got your
aes) columnist down by means of a half nelson and tickling and I
Nees ty ceased resisting when my hat fell off. She has a wonderful
ye . technique.
| Cm elie fy ie Strictly speaking, this was not female wrestling, but mixed
alee wrestling; Why not hold mixed wrestling matches? There should be
hi Se di ip lot of money in that for someone, somewhere. It should be brought
ba at |: out of the home and put into te ene

Be owe i | If Winter a .
ee an If we have winter here this year, can spring be far beie Rs _ hind? That is the question being asked by hockey players who
we | have an occupational disease known as “nothing to do” in the
oe warm months of the year. Of course they make enough money
erate in the winter to keep them going all summer—at least your
ie fi _ correspondent could keep going all summer if the hockey rulers

; % igh could flash the green light.

a Wi _ The trouble with hockey is that ers aren’t enough games.
Why could hockey not be played all year? Now its only played about
Seven months of the year, and managers get grey hair worrying about

~

  

    

rie the coming of spring. Mare Ahearn and the council have a plan afoot |!" VieW of the fact that its players |
to abolish spring so that the soon-to-be appointed Forum Manager can needed that money to antes to and |
. ie ee “have - year-round job. from their rink facilities. This was
deel aes eg Se hooted down by Belly and others,
va el, Navy Needs Recruits. who said that they had spent all |
a _ | The wires of Ottawa were humming last night as Navy year figuring out this method of
am . officials here frantically sought more players for the busted doing Dalhousie dirt, and were not
3 OR bunch that was the Navy football team. It is anticipated that going to be fooled by pétty conee the entire Canadian fleet will be in Halifax within two days, siderations of fair play. The mo-|
1 ee and the recruiting drive has been stepped up. : tion was passed, and the meeting

Diy The new Navy recruiting slogan will be “The Navy needs you— broke up at once in case the Dal |

pe if you can play fdotball—join the Navy and mingle with college| delegate arrived on time.
LN students.” :

Have a

3
i <3
Plus 2¢
wartime taxes
and orders.

me

  
 

Coke = Coca-Cola om
“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”

~ are the tegistered trade marks which

the product of Coca-Cola Lrd.

 

SET

Pao Tigers Defeat Sailor
With Decisive Shutout and Take

 

>

 

Over First Place in Football | League

Pa gal teas sie ees

2

JOLLY GOOD TACKLE—Stealing a play from English rugger, the
Dalhousie football team actually “tackled” Navy players at the game

Wednesday. Most adept at this

innovtaion was Gerry Brown, Dal
housie end. He is shown above tackling Ed MsSweeney of Navy as the

“Mystery man”

and Pete Mingo close in.

(Photo by Southtimber)

M.I.A.U. Meet Passes Belly Motion
-Disqualifying Dalhousie Players

Maritime colleges got together last week for the semiannual meeting of the Maritime Intercollegiate Athletic

Union,

with a full agenda for protecting the small college

against commercialism rampant at Dalhousie and other

places.

Major Belly of Acadia started
the ball rolling by demanding the
all Dal students be
playing any sort of sport if at any

barred from

time their pocket money exceeded
fifty cents a week. This was all
Acadia students were allowed, he
said, and it was a foul example for
his players to see a Dal player
drag out as much as a whole dollar
at a time.

Father Mackinaw from St. F.X.
pointed out that Dal should be allowed as much latitude at possible,

@— ----Collaborators—

Continued from page one
\from the
quicker.

The note continued, however, to
state that as soon as the situation
becomes safer, Ottawa will proceed
with the re-conquest of Quebec,
postponed since Sir John A. MacDonald left the liberals to go to
Ottawa,

 

Labrador border much

Vishinsky—
Continued from page one
delegates to the Council had created the rift so evident around the

| Council table.
He requested that the Americans |
make a move to relieve the Council
‘of the air of tension.

 

e€

| Dal tackling was sharp .

 

ape in place!

“Vaseline” Hair Tonic does the
trick... and does it nature’s way
by supplementing the natural scalp
oils. Keeps your hair soft, lustrous,
en responsive to brush or comb.

he largest selling hair preparation
in the world. 55¢ and O36.

By Mess Round

“Sunk by enemy action one undefeated football record” was the
wording of a terse Naval release.
The cause of it—a tearing snarling
band of Dalhousie Tigers landed
smack on the quarter-deck of
Navy’s H.M.C.S. Football yesterday
afternoon at Wanderers Grounds,
and proceeded to claw out a 15-0
triumph over the undefeated sailor
squad. This was Navy’s first loss
in two years of play, and the victory puts Dalhousie in first place
in the Halifax Canadian Football
League,

Bustin’ Bobby Wilson started the
Tiger scoring parade by booting a
Single in the first quarter. Nine
plays later George Mattison kicked
a field goal to give Dal a 4-0 lead.
In the third quarter Wilson whizzed away to a 50-yard trip to paydirt, and a touchdown. Pete MacDonald caught the extra point.
With 45 seconds remaining to play
in the game Mattison intercepted a
bluejacket pass to hit the promised
land after a 85-yard jaunt and
make the final Tiger Tally.

In The End Zone—Navy kicking
was way off yesterday, and not
until late in the game did the sailor
booters began to click . .. Bobby
Wilson ran the ends well and came
up with some great kicks for the
Tigers ... Bob MacDonald made
yardage with great line plunging
for Dal... George Mattison, he of
the shuffling, shambling gait, was
the top scorer for the Tigers, picking up eight points ... Ivan Edwards was one of the best defenSive players on the field—the old
Savvy is still there ... Len Murray
worked hard and his twisting bucks
were something to see ... Ginger
O’Brien thrown for a loss is something unusual, but Ginger being
thrown for a loss in his own seecondary is really something
. Both
| teams came*up with excellent down
field coverage of kicks ...

| ork Uke chances ide dry scalp)

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

*
SYMPTOMS:
itchy feeling;
dandruff; dry,
brittle hair;
loose hairs on
eomb or brush.
Unless checked
may cause baldness.

   

  
  
  
 

  

ir thaté naturally

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
  
 

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

RADE MARK

 
   

J, iy i ae oo.

ie ee Met

 
 


     
 
      

    
   
    
     
     
             
       
     
       
       
    

|

     

 
 
