 

 

 

 

  
    
    
   
  
  
  

Fob

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

   

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1948

ACTIVITIES

 

The Next Gazette |

Will Be Published

WED., OCT. 13
at 1 o'clock

 

No. 3

 

 

(Gazette Photo by Soberman)

... Friendship Flourishes

 

Sherriff Hall Stags
Stagger Through Dance

On Wednesday evening past the
poor belaboured freshmen, supervised by the strong arm and stern
eye of the ever-present Sophomore
committee, gallantly offered their
arm to the dainty damsels who this
year enrich Dalhousie campus with
their charm and beauty, the Freshettes.

On arrival at Sheriff Hall the
Frosh were greeted by the everpresent “Sophs” who quickly
whisked them on to the floor of the
public rooms of the Hall where
they waltzed, and cavorted to the
music of “Clive Shaéffer and his
quintet.

The evening was enlightened by
novelty and elimination dances
which were added to create an atmosphere of amiability and companionship.

This dance is an annual affair,
which is held to promote a more
cordial relationship among the first
year students who might, if not
given a chance to meet each other,
feel left out of the social whirl of

- Dalhousie.

- One of the highlights of the evening was the frosh introduction to

. Dr, and Mrs. Kerr and the warden

of Sherriff Hall, Miss Mowat.

Refreshments were served and,
fortified with vitamins D, A, N, C,
and E, dancing continued until the
witching hour of midnight.

 

PERSONAL SERVICES GETS
CONSTITUTION

The Council ‘approved the Constitution of the Personal Services
on Wednesday night, and also act a) plication of the pres
| to the station here in one of them.

 

Delta Gamma
To Hold Dance

As a climax to the Saturday
afternoon game with McGill at
Wanderers Grounds Delta Gamma
will spohsor a tea and dance in the
Dal Gym. The dance music will be
under the capable baton of Clive

Schaeffer with his quintet in atten- | structors.
Proceedings start at five,| offing, and,

dance,

immediately after the game and
continue until eight in the evening.

 

Y

 

— ve
Addresses
Students

“Students should devote as much
time as they can to extra-curricular activities, but they should be
conscious of their studies.”

This was the advice of Dr. A. E.
Kerr, in his welcoming address to
the students last Thursday. He
pointed out how great were the
| traditions of college life, from the
universities of Rome and Greece to
those of the present day, and said
that universities were meant primarily to give instruction in the
great facts and deep problems of
life.

| Dr. Kerr’s address included a
|mention of the Dalhousie Students’
Council. He stated “Like a democratic government they must have
support.” He also made mention
of the various societies on campus
under the auspices of the Council.
He felt that in past years the debating society had been sadly neglected, and that it should perform
in full style again. The Doctor
went on to show the usefulness of
the Glee Club and the Athletic Societies, as well as the religious
groups in Dalhousie. He praised
the Editors and staff of the Gazette
for their relentless effort to print
the truth.

In closing, Dr. Kerr stated that
students were here to discover a
philosophy of life essential to one’s
well-being. He hoped that the stu
 

 

| dents would consider the Profes
sors and Deans their friends, and
take their problems to their inThis is a new era in the

said Dr. Kerr, “Dal| housie has confidence in its students
as they take their places in Canad’s
future,”

 

EDMEN” PLAY HERE SATURDAY
ER “DREAM TRIP” TO CITY

 

“MceGill’s ‘B’ team syst tive cas weekend, taking in the

| dream trip’ of the season.

The Students’ Council of Dal
| housie University has voted $1650.00 to bring the Redmen
down to Halifax to play the Dal crew.”

Frosh in

Full Flour
At Bonfire

The bonfire of Tuesday night
was another step in the Soph’s
initiation plans but not a feather
in their caps. Over one hundred
and fifty freshies and sophs huddled around a small fire in a large
circle and sang songs reminiscent
of the old days. Jack Boudreau,
aided by a bevy of freshette cheerleaders led the choral group thru
their paces.

High spirits at the first of the
evening were dampened when the
singing began to drag and finally
became monotonous. The cheering
section practised lustily to get in
trim for the McGill-Dal game and
after a few raw starts they turned
to song again.

The proceedings were suddenly
interrupted by a soph raid on the
gathering complete with two-pound
bags of flour. In a matter of seconds the chase was on but the
sophs showed their heels well and
outstripped the field. A second and
third foray followed but again the
marauders escaped. The group
broke up at ten, a few minutes
after the embers of the fire had
cooled. A more than precise estimate showed that sixty-five pounds
of flour were hurled at the freshies.

 

NOTICE
Chapel services will commence
Tuesday, October 12 at 8.40 a.m.
The services held in the King’s
College Chapel are for all students
on the campus.

 

The above statement appeared
in the McGill Daily without further
comment. Dalhousie’s answer to
the Daily will be given tomorrow
afternoon at 2.30 on the playing
field of Wanderers Park, Although
McGill may recognize this game as
just a pleasure jaunt at Dalhousie’s
expénse, to this university it is the
most important game of the year.
The Tigers will be using the Redmen as a yardstick to measure the
progress made in Canadian Rugby
during the past year.

“On Loan”

The McGill team will include Al
Cagney, end, on loan from the
senior team, along with Fox, captain of the “B” seniors.

McGill will take to the field two
hours after their plane lands in
Dartmouth. They are still favoured to win. Though their
line is outweighed by Dalhousie’s
they have the advantage of experience, speed and aerial attack.

For the lineups for tomorrow’s
game please turn to sports page.

 

Justice Reed
Now En Route
To The Hague

En route to The Hague, where
the International Court of Justice
on which he is one of the 15 judges
will resume this Fall, Justice John
Erskine Reed left Halifax aboard
the liner Aquitania Wednesday
evening.

A native of Halifax, Justice
Reed is a member of the Bar of
Nova Scotia, graduating from Dalhousie Law School in 1909. Shortly

(Continued on page four)

 

Dalhousie Student Council Splits Hairs
Engaged In Discussion of Taxi Fares

The council of students of Dalhousie University—a most august
body—held a meeting in the Murray
Homestead Wednesday night. They
accomplished a great deal, and
passed many budgets—but at times
the proceedings could only speak
for themselves.

For instance, Frannie Doane presented a budget for the D.G.A.C.
She asked for $5 to cover the cost

| of taxis for a two-woman archery

team on a trip to U.N.B. The taxi
trips would be from Dal to the station, from the Fredericton station
to N. N. B., and reverse.

‘Someone suggested that the trol
ley coaches would be running in |

the Spring, and the girls could go

  

Bill Cox said “Taxis are cheaper
in Fredericton.”

Earl Urquhart—I suggest we
move on.”

Some Hon. Members—“In trolley
coaches? ? ?”

Again, referring to another D.G.
A.C. budget, Miss Doane said;

“T have only been able to develop
a very rough figure.”

Some Hon. Members (in chorus)
—True!!!”

Laughter.

Chairman McKinney — “Order,
Order.”

It didn’t stop at that. Miss Margery Archibald asked for $115 for
another girls’ organization.

Mr. Rusty Milne—“But last year
it was only $14.”

Miss Archibald— raaee we spent

much more than that.”

Secretary-Treasurer — “It didn’t
appear on my books.”

Miss Archibald—‘We kept it in
our books.”

Secretary-Treasurer—‘What did
you say???”

Miss Archibald—“We ran dances
and things and made a profit.”

President McKinney—‘We didn’t
hear about it.”

Miss Archibald—“‘We didn’t tell
you — we kept the money in our
own bank account,”

President McKinney — “But you
can’t have a bank account. We
take the receipts and pay all the
bills. The profits go to the council
— that’s been the procedure for
many years.”

Miss Archibald—“Oh!” —

Some Hon. Members—‘Ha, Ha,

The sum of $115 was passed.

Then Mr. Jack Boudreau, the
publicity director, brought his budget before the members. It
amounted to a sum exceeding $600.
It seemed as if it would pass without a single quibble, when—

Mr, Boudreau — “We'll need a
large roll of paper.”

President McKinney—(Discreetly) “How much will it cost?”

Mr. Boudreau—“Five Dollars.”

Some Hon. Members—“Five Dollars???”

Mr. Hamilton—“But you don’t
understand. This is a large roll,
to be used instead of the conventional roll. We need it in the
publicity business.”

Laughter.

 

 
   

~

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLCATION
. x * * x *

: Editors-in-Chief
J. D. LUSHER

   

oprah _ BRUCE LOCKWOOD BOB McQUINN SHERBURNE McCURDY

. Reporters:—Barbara McGeough, Dorothy Saffron,
. Simon, D. Soberman

re me, ae Photographers:—Erie Richter, Dan Soberman
Pay Oi Assistant Business Manager:—Alfred Harris

i A. MOREIRA
ee Managing Editor Business Manager
eee BRUCE LOCKWOOD ROBIN MACLEAN
A . * * x * *

gate IN CHARGE OF THIS ISSUE

4 st News Sports Features

ap

tas Sas Printed by McCurdy Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S.

 

Coens ky » AWARDS

Nit hapiaes The Council Committee for Awards last year apparently

encountered some difficulty in interpreting the rules governing the awards. Usually they solved any difficulty by simply

tossing out the award involved, so that persons who had been

____ Jisted by Societies as having won awards found the decision

-—~—s Overturned by the Committee in a rather tactless manner.

. This sort of situation should not be allowed to exist.
_ This year as Dalhousie enters its fourth year of having a
large student body, a great many awards may be expected,

and if the awards are to be subject to the same vague condi
tions as existed last year, there will be a great deal of un-|' °

necessary unpleasantness over them.

Now, while the year is relatively young, the Awards
Committee should be appointed at once to decide with the
Societies exactly what rules are to govern awards. If the

Bo leaders of the societies are to go through another year without knowing whether or not their recommendations are doing
as to be tossed out by the Committee, they will be hardly justified in holding out awards to those who work for their groups

as an incentive.

See ee 
if: Te

 

SODALES’ PROGRAM

* There is probably no art more neglected in our Universi
_ ties today than that of public speaking. Comments on this

state of affairs, and complaints, have been heard from time
to ae ok arcane educators without having too great
an effect.

- _ Very little, if anything of the subject, is taught in the
schools, and the freshman coming to University finds football and other activities much more within his scope than the
new activity of debating, and yet few of our Societies can
provide training which will be as useful in after life as that
which Sodales does.

— -——

Sodales’ plan for this year includes not only the regular
schedule of debates, but also a new feature. Largely due to
the interest of Dr. Kerr, a series of lectures on public speaking have been arranged which should prove of inestimable
a. not only to the neophyte, but also to the practised

e is ver: ;

Our regular debates with teams from other Universities
are generally much more interesting than the attendance
would indicate, and you are not only doing yourselves a favour by attending them, but supporting a University team
which deserves quite as much attention in its own field as an
athletic one does in another.

 

FOOTBALL

The Canadian team has won its first game, and will be
playing McGill tomorrow in our first game with a Canadian
team from one of the Big Four Universities. It is very gratifying to see the progress which the new game has made here,
and the prestige which it has brought the D. A. A. C. and
the University in athletics.

\ ak is very likely that we will meet a better team tomor
row, which should not be a source of any great worry. On

_ the contrary, the fact that a team is coming here from Cen
tral Canada is in itself a tribute to the energy and enter
prise of the D. A. A. C. and the Physical Director in developIng the game.

Rett Our somewhat neglected English rugger team has been
quietly practising on its own. Supplied with less in the way
of equipment and facilities than the other team, the players
- are using the Gorsebrook grounds for practise, and thinks it
has a coach. It may be that this year, as happened last, this
he team will be the one that climbs to the top of some league.

P : ‘Tt seems to us that the offer from Harvard to receive
| rt oe fel Besecmtin _ not been ee the at: _ vention it merits. . angements are going to ;

_ should be made soon. ee

“* : as 4 a r s ae + ae war # = * P
ee Se a _* Ota gL oa ss A eae se ee ey Aa VAS OU are i aaa
Hekate Re te | a a a 7
a en a he Sie S cei
ee eect eae ea

4

 

hw

pe ee

       

Wednesday, Oct. 6—This morning Captain Clink Heavy sent me
twelve bottles of Cheval Noir Ale.
He also did send a request that I
write a letter for the Press in
praise of his troop of soldiers.
Three of the bottles I drank. The
letter, I forgot. Later in the morning, due in some part, I believe, to
the strong ale, I lost five shillings
at nine-pins. :

In the afternoon I did hear much
of the meeting of the Parliament
in the Lessy Homestead, wherein
the band was forbidden to ride in a
coach to engagements, but rather
must walk, as seems fit.

Abroad, wearing only one shirt, I
was brought muth pain and cold.

This morning read the King’s
proclamation against swearing and
debauchery, and was much amazed
at this seeming reformation,

Being not very well settled,
partly through last night’s drinking and want of sleep, I lay down
in my gown upon my bed and slept
til 4 o’clock when I was wakened
by classes changing in the college
on the hill, which I took for 8
o’clock in the morning and rising
. mistook the sun rising for the
sun setting on the previous night.

Thursday, Oct. 7—Much amazed
this morning to hear of the dastardly action of the scholars who
placed a privy, taken from the
camp of some city workmen, on
the steps of Marmalade Hovel,
where the young maids of the college on the hill do dwell.

Did hear that Dr. Hound was
much incensed, as too, were nearby residents. Some say it was an
old privy, and that might, in some
part, account for the ‘incense. Two
workmen, churlish chaps who demanded money before they did the
work, removed the offensive structure. Dr. Hound has demanded that
Parliament reimburse his pocket.

Thinking over this weighty
problem I did procede to my house,
with my money clutched tightly in
my arm, as the streets were mighty
dark. A gentleman on Aqua Street
had a great and dirty fall over a
sewer pipe that lay along the channel.

So to bed, after looking over the
things that my wife bought today,
they costing too much, I went to
bed in a discontent.

Friday, Oct. 8—In the morning
my wife tells me the bitch has
whelped four young ones and is
very well after it, my wife having
had a great fear that she would
die thereof, the dog that got them
being very big.

This morning intended to have
gone to Westminster Abbey to see
the Archbishop, but it raining, I
forbore, at which he did give off
my pew to another, denying me
permission to sit in the abbey on
Lord’s Day—I shall go to a rival
institution, and visit the West End
Swimming’ Pool.

Was amazed, on reading the
Spectator (early version) to see a
sketch of Dr. Hound and others,
standing in a group, one a-drinking
of a glass of wine, and he most
prettily bearded in the French
fashion. Some believe he is an Ambassador from the court in Paris.
Heard much comment on _ the
cleverness of the artist who penned
the sketch, which shows most subt
-| ly the difference between old world

and new.

Heard today in the streets much
talk that a ship has been sighted
at Land’s End bringing many Redmen from the Canadian colonies. I
do believe they are to have a display or exhibition on the great
Square upon their arrival and it is
said they may well find opposition
from the scholars who are most

fine athletes on Saturdays. —

 

a

*
5 " eae ‘ . x z ¢ ; a 7 aed ‘
; eer “4 “Le ceade Moe | —e 4 \ ae . j f thy
ee] “ a ie u is “aati sat ala ie ld fens Pa a - es ; ti al, ae Pee ta es
Pa Pe tay) ‘ Ut may Pret asiiT ) fi. tal arg yo inte: ay > Sha ees }
hs 4 é ae Nad a oe A Ed ae pa ae ae Ce ee ke

 

 

Pe et ey vee ape
Pekar rr cy 3

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

eee er

a
t

     

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED

STUDLEY DRUG STORE
29 Coburg Road

FADER’S DRUG STORE
141 Hollis St.

   

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

  
       
 
 
  

    

NUR/ERIES: Limited...

 

426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax

THE

GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

“The sign of a good meal’

Gy
407-409 Barrington St.

DALHOUSIE RINGS

College rings in black onyx with
gold Dalhousie crest are available—but only while present
stock lasts.

Come in and see them.

“EXPORT”

HENRY BIRKS &

SONS LIMITED CANADA'S FINEST

Registered Jeweller, American CIGARETTE
Gem Society

Halifax, N. §8,

 

ger 0 @ « “C-C-C-Christian
_ n-name...E-E-Egbert”

 
 
  
  
     

Egbert seems embarrassed . . . and who
wouldn’t with such a slick chick taking
the gen.

But there’s one kind of embarrassment
Egbert has seldom suffered during his two |
years at college .. . that’s financial.

Like thousands of students from U.N.B.
to U.B.C., he has found the B of M a
valuable financial ally in conducting his
away-from-home financing. Why not drop
in at your nearest branch and make “MY
BANK” your personal advisor on “Practical Economics”,

Hea

Bank or MonrrReaAtl

WORKING wiITtH CANADIANS

‘an IN
ey EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

a ee yO

Halifax Branch: WILLIAM STEWART Manage
a, > r
CECIL W. McMARTIN, Asst. Mgr.

North End Branch: CHRISTOPHER LONSDALE, Mer.
Quinpool Road & Kline St.: JAMES L. MeGERRIGLE, Mer.

 

ao m Ske. AS oe
ae ee ae ih aaa. ane ae, a Las eet he a bas ; f
ee ee a ei aera me aed cl la aia eer Re hs

    
    
  
  

  
   
    
 
 
   

 

 

>
'

’ . '
* q +
e 1 . ir
ie A :
a I
.
*

 

   

| 5
The Freshman sate in the depths of his cell and groaned,

and beat his breast, for he was humiliated and abased, being
a Freshman. He had suffered shame and loss of dignity in the
Initiation, and had not the effrontery whereby to outface the
jeers and scoffs of initiates. And he sate in the depths of his
cell in the Men’s Monastery, and groaned.

: II

Whereat his Better. Self

arose, as Better Selves will,

-eame and berated him his weakness, saying: “Bear up, bear

up!” And it exhorted him to join the Glum Club, or the Die
an hard Football Team, and do great deeds. But he cursed the
_  B5S., which withdrew forthwith. And when it could no longer

hear him, he said: Better I had not come; better I had sold

my soul, than that this should

Ill

And as his wofds were lost in the
murk, there came a rumble of
thunder and the cell grew dark.
And he beheld a Stranger léaning
against the door, with sneering
countenance. And the Freshman
drew himself up proudly, for he
feared nothing, and was a Boshville
Bosh, of one of the oldest families.

But the Stranger spoke, and
said: “Give yourself no airs, for
my family is older even than yours,
particularly in Halifax.” And the
Stranger continued, saying: “So
you don’t like the Glum Club or the
football team. Then take my advice; unless you can make Delta
Gamma, join the Gazette. Fine institution.” And the Stranger’ vanished in a rumble of thunder, and
a cloud of Science Building smoke,
and the place knew him no more.

IV ;

The Freshman sate and marvelled, for the Stranger had said
the truth; the Gazette was ,indeed,
most illustrious. And he arose and
went forth, and it is written that
he entered the office of the Gazette
and became a scribe.

For the Stranger is a sporting
type, and loves a gamble with a
soul, and there was no greater
gamble than this. For many there
are who venture in to the Gazette,
but few emerge to say that they
no overset set, no deadline broke,

The following poem was
“Lampoon”.

have happened.

no story flubbed, no copy passed
that should not have been passed,
and have no great oaths caused in
the Editors, whereat damnation
came upon them, and have not
bleached the soul of the proofreader with bad proof, and have
not printed vile columns causing
the reader to take the Name in
vain, but have done all well.

But such a one was this Freshman, and did all well, and many
souls were thereby saved.

V

And the Stranger sate on his
throne in Hell, and gnashed his
teeth with rage, for at his feet lay
the Gazette whereof the same
Freshman was an Editor, and it
was good and all was indeed
pusser. .

For it had come by the new
One-Thirty - On - The - Dot Circulalation Service devised by this
Freshman’s ingenuity, and in the
opening it could be seen that the
Editorials were good, and the
heads good and balanced, the cuts
clear and the proof perfect, the
length exact and the layout impeceable. And that day the
Stranger lost a Soul, and there
was great rejoicing in the Gazette;
for there is more joy for a good
issue in the Gazette than in the
salvation of six hundred sinners, or
sixteén years’ subscriptions to the
Hansard.

printed in the Harvard

IN PHILANDERER’S FIELD

In Philanderer’s Field the poppas grow,
Amid the curses, deep and low,

That mark their place.

And flying ‘by,

A love-bird thumbs its nose on high.

We are the dads.

Short days ago

We wooed, got hooked, for all we know.
Now we are wed. Our doom we sealed
In Philanderer’s Field.

 

 

 

Med Notes

The first year medical class was
officially welcomed to the business
of the Medical School at a “miniature” meeting of the Medical Society on Sept. 22 where, we are
sorry to relate, confusion reigned
supreme. The faux pas of wrangling and useless debate lasted for
two and a half hours with nothing
accomplished beyond the fact that
we know what constitutes a quorum. After numerous motions of
adjournment the Presid ent (figuratively) released the chains from
the door and allowed us to return
to our books and studies.

At a special meeting a few.days
later we were pleased to see that
there are still a few men on the
campus that would like to see Dalhousie on the map. These men
would like to see Dalhousie take
her place among the other Medical
Schools in the promotion of the
Canadian Association of Medical
Students and Internes, We refer to
the motion of asking to have the
CAMSI National Executive at Dalhousie next year. A few made
themselves quite conspicuous by
not only refusing to take an interest in such an endeavour but by attempting to dissuade others from
doing so as well.

As is the custom a warm welcome was extended the first year
;

 

Notices

All faeulty societies desiring coverage in the Faculty News section
should appoint a representative to
keep the features Editor informed
as to activities, etc, If these representatives will contact Sherburne
McCurdy at the Gazette office on
Monday or Tuesday afternoons at
Two-thirty, arrangements can be
made accordingly.

There will be a regular meeting
of the Gazette staff on Tuesday
afternoon at One-thirty P. M. in
the Gazette Office. All interested
in working on the Gazette are
urged to come along, besides regular members.

The Band will march to the field
on Saturday for the McGill game
at 1.45 p.m. All students who are
going to attend the game are urged to be at the Gym at that time
to march down with the band.

The Dalhousie Liberal Club will
hold an informal Hallowe’en Dance
at the Lord Nelson Hotel Oct. 29th.

 

if” ; ]
1)

Cy

foil |
f YP
ff | a)
| cf VY ij ,
) i Yh if ye
Gh V4 ty yf Uf M,

’

V4 Up tir

—

=)

\ \U h \ / h j
SS ; RAY \ SN

     

74

ei

_ Coke= Coca-Cola q
“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”

   
 
 
  
 

Fee ace the registered trade marks which
pe _—_ distinguish the product of Coca-Cola Led,

 


I ae
eS

af = - 4 ae) 4
a

i, © é Z
Foye, ae, oe

  

     

  
 

  
     

   

COCA-COLA LTD.
HALIFAX, N. S.

et

: T as ht no ¥
Lae aes ae ee

_ FACULTY NEWS

  

Law Notes

It is nice to see so many bright
young people in the First Year
again, with some old faces mixed
in with the new, who are being introduced to the complexities of the
law for the first time.

The Supreme Moot Court opens
its sittings on the 138th of this
month with Rhude ‘and Hannington, last year’s top men in the first
year, arguing before a Bench well
loaded with lordship. The usual
high standards of conduct will be
expected from junior counsel, who
are, we are told, liable to be severely penalized for contempt of
court if their Lordships feel at all
thirsty.

There has been ,we are told ,a
slight letup in the volume of work
done since the Dean left to be ad
viser on Constitutional Law to the/|=

delegation from Newfoundland.
The Dean is expected back in about
a week,

Law should have fairly strong
teams in this year’s inter-Faculty
schedules, with a large first year
class to draw on and most of last
year’s stalwarts back again. It is
safe to predict, at any rate, that
who ever wants to take the foot
ball honours away from Law will

have a hard time.

 

class by both fraternities. Each
trying to out-do the otHer by a wild
display of free meals, parties and
pledge talks. In this whirlpool of
gaiety the new arrivals caught a
glimpse of how medical students
relax in their free hours. However,
we do hope that all this frivolity
has not been too dissipating an influence on those who are not immune to the effects of seeking (and
finding) the pleasures of life.

We hope to talk with you again
next Friday, if by that time, no
one has rendered us incapable of
writing. (Watch next week for our
Library report.)

 
 

  
  
  
   
 
 

MAN FROM TEXAS
James Craig — Lynn Bari
Lohnie Johnson

THE ANGRY GOD
In Full Color and an all
Native Cast
October 7 - 8 - 9

GARRICK
THEATRE

MY-HOW SMART
YOUR HAIR

THANKS TO
BRYLCREEM/

There’s nothing like wellgroomed hair to improve your
appearance—and make a hit
with the girls! That’s why
BRYLCREEM is so popular with
men everywhere... why it is
the largest selling hair dressing
in Canada! It instantly
makes your hair smooth, wellgroomed, attractive—without
_ being smelly or greasy.

GIRLS—Brylcreem is an excellent dressing for your hair
too—try it!

Get a special

FREE COMB
SS Brylcreem

pocket-comb and case! Send an
empty Brylcreem carton with your
name and address to:
Brylcreem, Department SM)
294 Richmond St. W. '
Toronto, Ontario

ey T tea

CO Se ee Oc eee Oe

 

LOLOL

“DANCING

SATURDAY
NIGHT”

   

Choose Your :
Fall Hat at EATON’S

A wide selection of models for men and young men
tet

featured at EATON’S! ..
seasonable shades.

. Good quality fur felts in

EATON’S Main Floor
Each 5.00 to 10.00

“T. EATON.

o . .

LIMITED

a ae

 

 

 
  
 
  
    
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
    
 
    
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
    
 
  
    
    
  
  
    
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

Campus Roundup

by Windy O’Neill

 

4 In regard to student admissions to the Tiger’s games, this corner
e 1 interviewed Russ McKinney, the president of the Students’ Council,
| | Russ assured us that the council is going to consider the matter
diately and he thinks there is no reason why the students
( asa get into the games for, at least, half the going rate. About
9 @ of the student body think so too! We ean start making money

ont ona "They pay to equip . the team and ae should: have sonic
me return. We hope that there will be quick action on this matter.
_ However, the council is to be congratulated on their unprecedented
, Kc action of arranging a game with McGill, This shows our university
x a Lae true nett

* - *

e RS An orchid should be thrown to the university authorities for
| t their’ prompt co-operation in repairing the field. It is said, unnn officially, that the budgeted figure for the repairs is well over_ passed and such a fine job has been done that, when ready,
_ Dalhousie will have a playing surface unsurpassed anywhere in
- Canada. It is all the Canadian and English football players can
do, to restrain themselves from going out and joyfully thumping
_ their battered bodies up and down on the lush green sward. If we
have’ a long autumn and a good-growing summer, the field should

er oc for games next fall.

* * *

It was a great Dalhousie opening, last Saturday, in spite of the
i ee TR weather. The Tigers showed, by thumping the bigger and
is Neo io vastly improved Wanderers, that the powerful Navy team will have
he Pt real tussle this year for the Purdy Cup. Bob MacDonald scored
Hens the first touchdown of the season (as he did last year) and both he
and Bobby Wilson turned in standout performances. One of the
| _ pleasures of the afternoon was the performance of little Donny Har
- rison, playing his first game of Canadian Football. It didn’t take

ri, him any time at all to adjust himself to the new rules and made some

; As y i ene weaving runs that had the fans goggle-eyed, which goes to

aie that a good football player-can play either game. Pete Mac
_ Donald and Paul Lee showed some tackling, the like of which had not

been’ seen around Dal in years. The line, the big question mark at

the beginning of the season, played a sturdy game. Bert Cull, Pete
re _ Mingo and a newcomer named Gerry Brown seemed to be in on every
ee - play.

IS _ The game was broadcast, for the first time, by some charac
5 aie ter named Riley, a disk-jockey by trade (disk jockey—professional

Rs ee _ wise-guy), who forgot the game in his intense ornithological inry terest in a flock of pigeons playing around his COVERED broadss easting booth. Arrangements are being made to de-roof the place.

: ‘We don’t blame the guy for trying to enhance his reputation
by being funny broadcasting a football game if the league will
allow him to do it. Here we have the Halifax Canadian Football

League and its executive, being so preposterous as to allow a fellow

to ‘broadcast to prospective fans, a game he has never even seen

before. The HCFL gained the reputation as being very efficiently

‘run, last season—what’s happening this year? Let’s have some

action, boys!

Slate ie . 3 * *

Pee NOTES: Roy “Earl Carroll” ATWOOD has made some very pleasfife A __ ing changes in the campus BOOK STORE this year, be sure to go in
uy i and drool over a cup of his steaming brew. A vote of thanks to the
ve WANDERERS for offering us the use of their field for practise—
oe

| _—-xelations this year are as they should be, HUGH NOBLE did a peritera fect job of refereeing last Sat—shouldn’t be a complaint from either
namie side, but he could speed up the game by making substitutions run on

va and off the field. There was a turnout of 26 English footballers
among whom are DON KERR, BLISS LESLIE, MAC COCHRANE of
last year’s team—chances look good for a repeat champiorship. Wonder who’s going to take DON WARNER’S place, it’s a shame to let
_-——s« the ~band die—some fellow like ALF COWARD should step into the
ate breach. All VETERANS should be sure to read JACK MACCOR----s MICK’S description of his ISS trip to Europe, starting in next week’s
nyhor® issue. It will be accompanied by a nostalgic picture of popular Jack
oe slinking out of a PLACE PIGALLE BAR.

 

Tennis Team Travels

ToU.N.B.; To Defend Title

Early Wednesday morning the
Dalhousie Tennis Team left for
The University of New Brunswick,
in order to defend their intercollegiate championship on Thursday or
‘Friday of this week. They have
Sw ae won the title for the past two
ru years and are looking forward to a

third,

This time they leave without the
services of last year’s stalwarts,
Bill Pope and Bill Moreside. Sid
Bartlett, last year’s singles chamre pion will again be with the team.
_ The three new members are Ken
_ Reardon, of Halifax, as the second
singles player; Dave Gange from
| Saint Johns, one doubles player
and -Ron McCollough, from Mon
as | treal sei other.

aa

Petrie, their manager also went
with them.

The trials for the team were held
earlier in the week at the Cathedral Tennis Courts, with about
twenty turning out. They travelled by train due to the impossibility
of obtaining cars, and are expected
back sometime Saturday, but if the
tournament is delayed because of
the weather, they will remain an
extra day. The meet will be a
Round Robin affair, without the
mixed doubles matches.

 

Justice Reed—

Continued from page one

after the First World War, in
which he served as a commissioned
officer in the Field Artillery, He
was appointed Dean of Dalhousie
Law School, a post he retained
-| until 1929, when he accepted a
| jNegal Position in Ottawa.

PT nee a oh i
/ ei te
x" 2g Peel i

 

 

 

Wr Oe ees “yey

SE aie aie

Tigers Meet McGill
Redmen Tomorrow

 

Bengals Ready For Feature
Game of The Y ear

Tomorrow will be the greatest test of ability that
the Dal Tigers have encountered since their initiation

to Canadian Football last

year. At 2.30 p.m., the

team will take to the Wanderers Grounds against a
strong aggregation of McGill Redmen, flown down

here from Montreal.

From first glance at the line
ups, the game will prove to be a rugged one.
Twenty-one men, a manager, trainer and a coach
will make the trip from the upper Canadian university. The players, according to a short brief received
from their publicity department, were chosen from
the eighty-odd potential players on the campus, each
one with considerable experience, to form an intermediate B team, The line will average around 187,
while the backfield around 170. Otherwise, nothing

is known about the calibre

Dal has yet to see any other
university play the Tigers. Being
proud of their team, they are
anxious to see how it will stand up
against a similar team from another campus. This will be their
chance to compare it with the
upper-Canadian brand of ball.
Last year the Tigers were defeated
in the city league semi-finals. This
year they have played one game

 

MacDonald

agairst the Wanderers which they
won 11-1. The game could hardly
be called a sufficient test for the
squad, because of the deplorable
condition of the weather and field.

Backfield

One of the outstanding players
of last Saturday’s game and one
of the best backs on the team, is
half-back Bob Wilson. Weighing
175 lbs. he is one of the hardest
workers on the field. Running
mostly on his elbows he stretches
his stock 5 ft. 10 in. to its utmost,
and is a sure ground gainer. Bob
might only be said to be surpassed
in aggressiveness by his running
half, Bob MacDonald. Bob hits the

Wilson

  

Harrison Feron

scales at 182 and his unending
drive makes him vital as a plunging back. The speed of the backfield it centered around two men,
Pete Feron and Don Harrison.
Pete is the closest thing to a ten
second man that we have. No
newcomer to the game, he hurls
his 160 lbs. down the field with
sparkling controls. Don is a convert from the English rugger
game. His 135 lbs., 5 ft. 5 in.
makes him the smallest man on
the squad. Nevertheless he makes
up for what he lacks in weight, in
speed ‘and shiftability, a very
touchy combination to hold on to.
Paul Lee, one of the smartest ball
handlers around these pants, tips
the seales at 160 and is 5 ft., 11 in.
of tackling dynament. Paul will
be called upon to fulfill wing-back
duties this year as well as part
time quarter back. Along with
these ball carriers are Andy McKay, 160, who will probably be
the starting quarter, Duke Mor
of the team.

gan, 190, a new addition to the
line-up, George Mattison, 160, who
will be in the wing-back spot and
Murry Malloy 165, who will occupy
a full-back position.

Heavy Line

What they lack in experience
and weight in the back-field, the
Tigers will make up-for it on the
line. It was the heavy that paved
the way for the back-field last
Saturday.

John Lindsay, captain of the
team and weighing 192, will fill
the right middle slot; Tom Belliveau, 185 left in-side; ‘Bill Peterson, 25, left middle; Frank MacDonald, 170, right end; and Don
Woodward, 160, left-end. This
was the first string last Saturday
and may be due for some changes.
To support that line there is, Bert

Cull, 210, left-middle; Spence!
Stewart, 165, right middle; Don
Seaman, 195, left inside; Gerry

Brown, 160, left end and Walter
Hrynyshyn, 160, right end. Most
of these men are playing the game
for their first or possibly second
year, and it will be interesting to
see how they react when pitted
against those who have had an
unlimited amount of experience,

 

 
 

ery!

"DALHOUSIE « GAZETTE

 

Rugger
Practice
Begins

The first practice of Dalhousie
Tigers English Rugger team was
held last Monday at Gorsebrook.
Last year the team captured the
Maritime Intermediate Intercollegiate Championship, the first rugger title that the Tigers have won
since before the war. This year,
again under the superb coaching
of Bev Piers, the players are look
ing forward to another great
season,
Though the majority of last

years’ players will not be back this
year, a number of good new prospects are on hand to take their
place. Back from last year there
will be Don Kerr, Bliss Leslie, Don
MacAuley, W. Archibald, Bill Ogilvie, B. Morrow and “Foo” Grant.
Also Alex Farquhar, one of the
outstanding rugger players in the
university for the past few years,
is also expected to be back in action after a layoff of one year.

New material has turned out in
abundance. Approximately thirtyfive men were out for practice on
Tuesday and more are expected.
Sonie of the more outstanding newcomers are Monty Seegar, J. Leedham, M. MacLeod, G. MacLean, D.
Boswell, L. Nightingale, E. Kinsman, R. Love and F. Laffin.

At a meeting of the Halifax
English Rugby League last Tuesday evening a season schedule was
drawn up. This year there will be
an open league, that is, there will
be no separate schedules for senior
or intermediate teams, but all
teams will play together, the team
ending in first place taking the
senior trophy while the intermediate title goes to’ the team in
second place. There will be five
teams in the league, Acadia, Kings,
Tech, Acadia’s second team and
Dal.

EVERYTHING FOR THE SPORTSMAN

visit

THE SPORTS LODGE

90 GRANVILLE ST.

 

 
 
    
  
 
   
  

%,
*
Aytths pts
: Ohts
= “ io
. ¥
%

Keep your scalp in condition \

..- hair in place

Sun... wind..

and lustre in your hair .
in the world,

RADE MAR

. frequent wetting—
they’re hard on the hair. Keep the life
- condition it
for easy grooming by supplementing the
natural scalp oils with “Vaseline” Hair
Tonic. Largest selling hair preparation

dont tte etrces widt dry scalp |

SYMPTOMS: itchy *
feeling; dandruff;
dry, brittle hair;
loose hairs on comb’
or brush. Unless
checked may cause

baldness.

   
  
  
    
  
 
     
  

WEA te HAIR TON (6

 
