ee

a 2

 

    
 

at

Nova Scotian

 
 

Vol. LXXXI

A GREAT LOSS

 

 

 

 

yp

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

  

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12th, 1948

rae
my
<

was suffered by Dalhousie University in
the unfortunate demise of Dr.

L. As

Richter,-Professor of Economics, at the University.

 

CBC’s John Fisher, Ex-Editor Of
Dalhousie Gazette, Here In Halifax

John W. Fisher, roving reporter of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and interpreter of the Canadian scene

arrived in Halifax last night.
A former Dalhousie law

student who abandoned the

pursuit of law for the pursuit of the manifold ramifications
of the North American panorama—a former member of the
Gazette — and a former Halifax disk-jockey, he is known
throughout Canada as a fearless champion of Canadian |

causes.

He spent seven hours with the
editors of the Gazette and the
writer of ‘The Campus Round-Up”
this morning, and spent most of
that time, as a Maritimer, defending these provinces against the
attacks of the central and western
provinces.

But he had a lot to say against
the Maritimes and Nova Scotia, too
—constructive criticisms based on
his observations.

“Canada is a false and fickle
lover,” he said — “when the hot
breath of the enemy blows on him,
he rushes’*for his old girl friend,
Halifax. When the enemy has been
slain he forgets his true love. The
marriage is always annulled and
Miss Halifax sits on the shelf waiting and wondering . .. There are
limits to patience.”

He is incensed at the neglect of
the Maritimes by the Dominion
government,

“As a Canadian, born close to

the tumble of the tides, I am ap- |
palled at this callous neglect. |
Patriotism, after all, should only
stretch so far.

“Why should Halifax not know
the thrilling feeling of successful
production ?” he asks.

“It is the ripe hour for Maritimers of all political ilk to join
and shout at Ottawa.

“Threaten it with secession and
independent status if necessary.

“Foree the issue.”

“For too long, Maritimers have
accepted the shotgun marriage of
war, and the crass neglect of peace
time.

“We should do something about
1,”

Mr. Fisher expects to visit the
Law Ball tonight, and the editors
of the Gazette are trying to institue plans to have him speak before
a student group before he leaves
the city Tuesday.

 

Law School Society Holds Annual
Law Ball at Nova Scotian Tonight

The annual Law Ball of the Dal
Law Society will be held tonight
at the Nova Scotian Hotel, with
Les Single’s boys in attendance.

The dance, usually one of the
year’s best, is expected to be very
well-attended, according to indications from the number of tickets
sold on the Campus.

Patrons will be, the Hon, Sir
Joseph Chisholm, His Honour the
Lieutenant Governor of the Proyince and the Hon. and Mrs, L. D.
Currie.

ISS a GS

Exchange Students

Under the sponsorship of I.S.8.
two students, one a D.P. and one
a student at a foreign University,
will attend Dalhousie. The University has agreed to waive their
fees and the local I.S.S. organization will be responsible for their
other expenses.

The students will be expected
to return to their own countries
after their course here is completed,

UNIVERSITY MOURNS
PROFESSOR RICHTER

 

Game Postponed

President of the Council Russ
McKinney announced late last
night that there would be no
football game on Saturday.

There has been no word yet
as to whether Dal will forfeit

the game, or Navy and the
League will allow  postponment.

This is the second time that
the particular game has been
postponed; the first was due to
the downpour on Thursday
which turned Wanderer’s field
into a swamp.

I AM A CANADIAN ...

 

... FIRST, LAST AND ALL TIME

Drew Raises Dominion-Provincial
Issue Here In Speech To Students

By Valerie Cato

Colonel George A. Drew, K.C., leader of the Progressive

Conservative party spoke Wednesday to the students of the

University. He explained the danger of untrained minds
making decisions in regard to political matters.

the establishment of political clubs on the campus.

The needs of the various prov-;of taxes.

inces differ according to the location. For this reason, even in the
beginning, Canada “wanted a Federal form of government. Under
the terms of the British North
America Act, each province received certain rights and privileges, because there are many problems
which arise and are better looked
after by a decentralized government. But no government can work
efficiently unless it has a “forceful
constitution”,

The Federal government deals
with matters of national interest,
but the one big thing which stands
out for the individual is the matter

NOTICE
Extras are required for walk-on
and silent parts in Dalhousie’s
forthcoming play, “Macbeth”. All
those interested please contact
Frank Bursey at the Glee Club
Office.

 

 

x

Law Ball

at

Nova Scotian

Tonight

 

 

No. 13

 

 

* *

Popular Faculty Member
Passes Away Here
After Fatal Accident

Dr. Lothar Richter of the Institute of Public Affairs at
the University died early yesterday morning as a result of

injuries sustained in a motor

accident Monday morning. It

was thought at first that he had escaped with minor injuries.
His consequent death from a haemorrhage of the brain came
as a great shock to the students of the university and his
many friends in the Maritimes and across Canada.

mm @ Dr. Richter had been executive

He praised

Unless the matters of
taxation are settled, no government can work well. In our case,
until the time of the last war, taxation was in the hands of the provinces. Then, as a wartime measure,
the government paid subsidies, and
took the right of taxation to itself. Now that the war is over, it
wants to keep the privilege. Quoting Mr. King, Mr. Drew said “Subsidy payment for taxes is vicious.”

The need now is for the allocation of power and taxes. We must
fight the tide toward authoritarian
government and give the provinces
the power to develop, Mr. Drew
said.

Local pride is very important in
the growth of our country “I am a
Canadian first last, and all the
time,” he said, but this does not
stop him from being proud of Ontario. The local development will
do the most to establish a democratic country.

ct eS a

director of the Institute of Public
Affairs and a professor at Dalhousie for the past 14 years.

He was born in Silesia, Germany
in 1894. His early education was
broad “and varied, including such
studies as law, theology and econo'mics. Later he became a high
| official in the Ministry of Labor
of the Democratic Weimar Republic. In 1933, through the help
‘of Willam Temple, later Arch| bishop of Canterbury, who was his
friend for many years, he took a
position in the Economics Department of the University of Leeds,
England.

In 1934, because of his definite
interest in Canadian problems, he
| became a professor at Dalhousie
| University. The following year the
Institute of Public Affairs was set
up at Dalhousie, and Dr. Richter
was appointed its executive officer.

Through the foresight of Dr.

(Continued on Page Four)

Shirreff. Holds

Annual Formal

On Wednesday evening, Nov.
10, the annual Shirreff Hall Formal Dance was held.

The decorating committee created a striking effect, using a
silver and black motif. Members
of the committee were: N. Barter, S. Newman, M. Archibald, S.
MacDonald, M. MacKay and M.
Goode,

The guests were welcomed by
Nancy MacDermid, House President, Miss Mowat, Mrs. Kerr, and
Dr. and Mrs. Hayes, after which
the couples danced to the music of
Fred Covey and his orchestra.

An informal buffet supper was
served during the intermission.
The main attraction of the evening was Jean Parker’s singing of
“Carmena” and “My Johann”, accompanied by Marion Kerr at the
piano.

Guests and chaperones were:
Dr. and Mrs. Kerr, Dr. and Mrs.
Hayes, Dr. and Mrs. Stewart,
Dean and Mrs, Bagnall, Professor
and Mrs. Chavy, Professor and
Mrs. Cummings, Mr. and Mrs. D.
MeNeil, Miss Lucie Joly, Mrs.
A. E. Griffin, Mrs. F. Pond.

 

 

 

 
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
    
   
          
     
    
        
    
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
       

 
   
  

  

* * a 4
oe _ CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
ee a F aot Editors-in-Chief
eee FS J. D. LUSHER A. MOREIRA
“Managing Editor Business Manager
___- BRUCE LOCKWOOD ROBIN MACLEAN
feb IN CHARGE OF THIS ISSUE
| News Sports Features

 
 

BOB McQUINN MARJ GOLBURGH
BE

_ BRUCE LOCKWOOD

  

RED LAMPERT
| -Reporters:—Barbara McGeough, Dorothy Saffron, ;
P. Simon, D. Soberman

_ Photographers:—Eric Richter, Dan Soberman

___ Assistant Business Manager:—Alfred Harris

Printed by McCurdy Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S,

   
   

November 12, 1948

ae COACHING AT DAL
Bos ha me ‘The Council finds itself in a quandary of sorts as to who
_-—~—_—s ig: going to pay the coaches. There was apparently some mis--—s understanding last year following a meeting with members
Pe Of the Senate Athletics- Committee and the Alumni, at which
some people got the impression that the University undertook to pay for coaching.

mee) ts vy

--—s Unfortunately, the minutes show no such undertaking,
and some people who were at the meeting do not even remem___ ber that it took place. The Council is relying on the fact that
___- Universities generally wish to control to some extent the men

roy

_--—s who’: train their students rather than on any express under
___ taking on the part of the University.
-. The point that has been overlooked altogether, however,
is the extremely unsatisfactory coaching setup at Dal. This
year, and in other years, we have relied on men from around
the city with a knowledge of a particular game, who volun— teer to coach Dal teams for no remuneration, and without any
arrangement between them and the Council.

ee ——-:‘Tn effect, we are relying in most sports on the generosity
of independent individuals who are interested in a sport.

 

made to secure the services of coaches in advane of the sea«gon, no matter who undertakes to pay them. It is ridiculous
_ that a team should have to wait until some independent per~ gon comes along and offers to coach them. Even high schools
retain some sort of control over coaches, whether they pay
them or not. We have none at all, and it would be distinctly
-embarrassing if the D.A.A.C. was forced to discharge an un
ai * satisfactory coach who had come of his own free will and offered his services to a team without any mention of payment.

The highest budget for coaching made so far is for the
services of the boxing coach, which far exceeds any similar
figure set down for far more important sports. Other coaches

_ have made, apparently, no stipulation as to being paid.

a It is about time that we decided, not who was going to
pay coaches, but when we are going to get coaches who can
devote the time to athletics that it requires.

“We are very grateful to the men who have offered their
services as coaches for nothing, but the present setup is
neither fair to them nor ourselves.

UNIVERSITY SERIES AT
FORT MASSEY CHURCH

Kerr, D.D., LI.D., President,
Dalhousie University.
Jan, 16, 1949—Professor W. J.

+ a - h, if
Tah 7,
F _—_ 1

a

24 ar
Been 2 5

i
' *
i
'

= vag Fe

 

wy

ie
:
#',

—

oe me

io ee y ‘
Dg *

« a,

a"
Ae
eo
A University series of Sunday
Evening Services to be held in

Fort Massey Church has been an
Archibald, Ph.D., Professor
nounced. College students are af Piewicn, Dalhousie Univerespecially invited to attend ser- sity. :
vices: Feb, 20, 1949—Professor George
- : : P. Grant, B.A., Asst. Profes0 Schedule of services is as sor of Philosophy, Dalhousie
_ follows: University.

Nov. 14, 1948—Professor J.| March 20, 1949 — Professor

George E. Wilson, Ph.D., Professor of History, Dalhousie
University. 
Burns Martin, Ph.D., Profes- |.
sor of English, Kings College.
Dee. 5, 1948—President A. E.

DENT NOTES

covered that there is a needle to
attach to the syringe. 
Did you listen to the radio
Saturday night? A pretty female patient of Earle Dexter
eT ok | dedicated a musical number to
2) by name, is adept at extracting | her favourite dentist. The familteeth. After two successful ex-|iar words of that poular number
_._ tractions he has decided that he} “Baby Face” were directed at our
ae an anesthetic on his} boy. |

 

The Dents welcome a new addition to the fourth year class, Tom
Prewett, from England, who will
complete his final year here at
Dal, *

A third year student, one Cook

| hy use +

    
   

     
      

 

        
   
  

A
2 ft ee

ee

be j = e 5 a 5 3 ne « :
ext attempt. — He recently dis- | transplanting a moustache.
; BS ioe pes st BF oN, oy : 7 wos lel iy rl hy ;
agli pF” EH ae by « aa) ir AY is - . ; Z Le ‘
a eo 4 ene Pay a faa’ a’ hang 2 or «See a Eat" f * 4

i, ee
mh

77 a a ee

- It is high time that some reasonable arrangement was.

He is now thinking of |

 

Wednesday, Noy. 10— Early to
the Gym Inn where I did meet
Hysterical Fred of English Ruggah fame, who did berate me
soundly that the newspapers,
especially the Spectator
edition) do not write sufficiently of
the old country game, while they
do write great long accounts of the
game brought from the colonies.
He did say that the papers should
only be produced twice a year instead of two times in the week.

Also, at length, he did explain
that the Spectator (early edition)
has an inferiority complex (a term
used by the new doctors) and
spends much time squabbling-with
the Arcadians, to its own detriment.

Having no patience with his argument as I could see he would
win it, I left, and went to the office where I worked long, making
out estimates and doing mathematiques in order that I may accurately measure stovepipe, as few
here can do,

Did hear that the Engineers at
the College on the hill, have had
special classes in this same branch
of mathematiques lately, which has
caused much humour to all.

Observed much interest among
the scholars about the great game
between the College athletes and
some sailors from the fleet. The
sailors are confident of striking
the students hard, but I think the
Dullhousians will win.

Home, and to bed early, expecting great festivities op the morrow.

Thursday, Nov. 11—Up betimes
and early waiting at the door of
the Sea Stud for its opening time
where there were many scholars
also waiting. Did spend the morning singing a fine new song,
“Glory, Glory to Dullhousie,” and
playing on my lute, and did drink
a fine new drink called Olandsale,
which is to be exported to the colonies.

Disturbed at noon by the arrival
of my wife at the door, she calling
on me to come home, where the
maid is sick and the dinner waiting
but did quickly put her in her
place. She picked herself up from
the gutter and went home, limping
and crying in a most silly, womanly fashion. I back down the stairs
and continuéd the celebration of
the forthcoming game.

Many there were sailors who did
wager mightily on the outcome of
the contest, in opposition to the
Kings proclamation about gambling.

I did not wager for I knew it
was not proper.

Did see the scholars at the game,
in their golden and noir uniforms
and was mightily pleased at their
fine behaviour.

Friday, Nov. 12 — On the street
early waiting for the copy of the
Spectator (early edition) to be circulated, as I fear some mention of
my drunken, disgusting conduct at
the contest be printed.

My wife and } not speaking today, she complaining that I did
knoek her down in the gutter yesterday noon, which I do not remember, and which I think is not true,
although she does have a mighty
black eye.

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED

STUDLEY DRUG STORE
29 Coburg Road

* FADER’S DRUG STORE

 

141 Hollis St. : S | {
. Quinpool Road & Kline St.: JAMES L. McGERRIGLE, Mer.
sgt ba 4 ic els : if - Sn ; bes acg i se ee as baat x he ee fa \ * od 3 d
BP at pie RaSh. yg ce att ade cae) a A me ea

(early |

—— - a
= :

   

a a fi fi E ce el : > P
i ier 0 :* mat
i - ve~ r

 

, “a
aa ra
Pi J

DAP
A aa ‘i > ok
ee

r
| ell

133 - pALHOUSIE GAZETTE
Arrow White
is Always Right!

No matter what collar style you choose from
Arrow’s many fine white shirt models— you'll
always be correctly dressed in an Arrow
white.

Certain styles may be temporarily short
(so great is the demand) but visit your
Arrow dealer and see his’selection of sparkling whites made by Arrow— Canada’s foremost shirt maker.

Look for the Arrow Trade Mark me

ARROW SHIRTS

TIES ¢ HANDKERCHIEFS

 

 

 

KAouuud the Campus a f: ~

—_

    
 

° > ae Se Mis
oes rate ae
—¥ : ae eR
* , r,
* ~~" s,
- > ve
im ’
2 f ;
a Pats,
= v si

G wt

> ,

és *)

4
—~ pan
Sm,
‘
é 3 Ms,
, e >
% %,
: e €

 o@ @ @ “Even after two years

psychology, women still con fuse
me”’

Practical Economics can be just as confusing as practical psychology.

That’s why smart students practice
money management at “MY BANK”. They a
know how easy it is to get that reet sports
coat and that snappy topper when you’re
Saving at the Bof M. Register today for
a course in practical economics at your
nearest B of M branch.

You'll like that rich-as-Rockefeller feeling money in the Bank gives you,

 

 

Bank or MonrREAL

WORKING WITH CANADIANS
EVERY WALK OF LIFE SINCE 1817

Somer

Halifax Branch: WILLIAM STEWART, Manager
CECIL W. MeMARTIN, Asst. Mer.
North End Branch: CHRISTOPHER LONSDALE, Mer. Pa

IN

U3-5

     

        
 

 
  

a
ee
way

Financial Cccaiiabe As a Nov. 8

  

A ;
a7 iy ee .e So
i nr . : '
he L c tr + ; fi me
a .
Vp ;
; q ai

 

 

 

   

| KNOW YOUR
|PROFESSORS

By R. S. LEVEY

 

DEAN OF LAW

- Vincent CC, MacDonald, B.A.,
LL.B., K.C., was born in Mulgrave,
Nova Scotia, in the year 1897.
Dean MacDonald first came to
Dalhousie as a student, graduating
with an LL.B. and the University
Gold Medal. After graduaiton Dean
MacDonald practicéd Law in Halifax for six years from 1920 to

ORGANIZATION EST. RECEIPTS EST. EXPENDITURES | _
D.A.A.C, 7

General $ 679.45
i Basketball 844.20
f Tennis 158.25
Be Canadian Football — § 1,473.00 8,274.85
Hockey 100,00 1,183.55
H Interfaculty Sports 753.95
a . Golf 42.50
iP? Swimming 66.00
be ' Badminton 400.00 678.00
Y Soecer 215.20
pe Squash ~ 92.00
y . English Rugby 269.80
| - Track 135.00
; ‘4 Boxing 350.00 222.50
f TOTAL D.A.A.C, 2,323.00 8,615.25
ay COUNCIL 23,073.00 4,100.00
it DELTA GAMMA 300.00 473.95
D.G.A.C. 1,843.65
y GLEE CLUB 1,800.00 3,570.01
re SODALES 190.00
| PUBLICITY 774.45
PERSONAL SERVICES 1,100.00 2,060.00
po YEAR BOOK 8,048.25 8,075.00
GAZETTE 2,000.00 5,790.00
) 38,644.25 35,492.31
=> Budget Reserve 2,857.30
Budgetable Balance 294.64
38,644.25 38,644.25

 

 

 

NOTES:

1. Quoted figures for Canadian Football include Receipts and
Expenditures for the McGill Game, which, due to the weather, was a
financial failure.

2. All estimated Receipts are conservative, including the Receipts
from Student Council fees, as no figures have as yet been received
from the Office of the Business Manager.

8. Budget Reserve may need some explanation. It amounts to
roughly 10 per cent of total estimated receipts exclusive of Year Book,
and is earmarked for expenditures in the second term, the amounts of
which cannot be determined now For example, no playoff trips in any
sport have been budgeted as yet, coaches fees and student awards have
yet to be provided for, and unforseen contingencies will certainly arise.

4. Unless the Council goes out on a limb and increases its estimated Receipts to near the danger point, or unless it reduces budgets
already approved, approximately $300 constitutes the total amount of
budgets that can be granted between now and Christmas.

5. Co-operation from the heads of the various student societies
has been excellent this year. They are to be congratulated on their
businesslike and efficient approach to student financing.

Respectfully submitted,

RUSS McKINNEY,
President, Students Council

 

Letay

COLLEGE BEAUTY CONTESTS—

: May they continue until the Judgment Day! Everyone likes to look
at co-eds who have a little more
of this and a little less of that. And

in Canada’s colleges, it's natural
_ to look to Player's Cigarettes for
fresh, cool smoking.

hes LA Palace hee kee LS

1926. In the years 1923 and 1925 he
acted in the capacity of Law clerk
to the Nova Scotia Legislature.

In 1927 Dean MacDonald went to
Toronto where he established a
Law practice until 1930. In the
years 1929-1930 he was a lecturer
at Osgoode Hall Law School.

In 1930 Dalhousie became the
proud recipient of his services as a
professor at the Law School. Four
years later he was promoted to the
post of Dean, a post which no one
could more capably fill.

Dean MacDonald has been editor
of many of Canada’s leading law
reports among which were ‘“Canadian Criminal Cases”, ‘“Dominion Law Reports”, “Dominion Law
Annotations”. He has also been
author of many articles on constitutional and other legal topics.

In the years 1947 and 1948 Dean
MacDonald was Vice President to
the Conference of Governing
Bodies of the Legal Profession.
Dean MacDonald has served as a

    
  

CORK TIP and PLAIN

| PLAYER’S. “MILD” PLAIN WITH “WETPROOF”

TO YOUR ‘LIPS. <

 
  
 

member or officer of many boards
and Royal Commissions, to mention
all of which would require a complete page. A few are as follows;
Member of the Council of -Nova
Scotia Barristers’ Society, Member of Conference of Commissioner
on Uniformity of Legislation, Advisor on Constitutional Law to

Page Three.

Scotia), Advisor to Canadian De.
legation to International Conference on Copyright. His latest post
was that of Constitutional Advisor
to the Newfoundland Delegation
for Union with Canada. From this
he just returned to Dalhousie.

Dean MacDonald is married and
is the father of five sons.

Royal Commission on DominionProvincial Relation, Counsel to
Custodian of Enemy property,
Member Dominion Royal Commission on Ship Building in Ontario
and Quebec, Controller of Ship
loading for the Port of Halifax,
Assistant Deputy Minister of
Labour of Canada, Chairman
Labour Relations Baord (Nova

Tle NOVA andl ada

“DANCING
SATURDAY

 

 

  
 
 
 
 

SYMPTOMS:
itchy feeling, dandruff; dry, brittle
hair; loose hairs on
comb or brush. Unless checked may
cause baldness.

  
 
   
  
   

Give yourself a head-start
with good-looking hair

Throughout the world “Vaseline” Hair
Tonic is used by more men than any other
hair preparation . . . to keep sealp in condition . . . hair neat and well-groomed all
day. Use this natural dressing for your hair.

Vaseline HAIR TONIC

  

TRADE MARK

 

 

Dance Committees

Vote for Coke

 

Plus 2¢

Ask for it either way... both —

 

wartime taxes
and orders. trade-marks mean the same thing.
COCA-COLA LTD.
HALIFAX, N. S.
184X

 
   
 

ye

Pay

a.
PTS

oh i of

Im
i
«

 

   
   
 
  

  

The

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

*
me “ o
; <Hiee

 

This university was singularly honoured last Wednesday after
‘noon, when Mr. Drew, the leader of the federal Progressive-Conserva
tive party, found, no doubt with difficulty, time to come on the campus
and address the students. This occasion was also a coup for the

‘Dalhousie Progresive-Conservative Club. In the past two years there

has been considerable discussion

in this university, and in others,

whether the idea of campus political clubs is a good thing.
A great many people feel that, as, the university period in a
citizen’s life is a period of formation of the mind and thought and
that this period should be untrammeled by institutions which would

tend to enrut one for life in a

certain political group. In other

words, at university, we should look around, have a look at every
thing and decide for ourselves which group we fit.

It is an un
healthy thing that students bind themselves to a certain party
with a selfish attitude to personal advancement rather than what
they think is right for the contrary. We are told that this atti
tude is not unknown even On our

sainted campus.

By bringing speakers the calibre of Mr. Drew to the campus, the

Pro-Con club has created a healthy precedent.

Let’s hope that the

other political clubs follow suit and bring men of like calibre here

think is right.

to speak to the students, tell them the aims and ideas of their party
and the students can decide their own course according to which they
This would fulfill the political club’s raison d'etre,
and in the process make better citizens of university students who
will be the leaders of tomorrow.

We were fortunate enough to be able to ask Mr. Drew a few
questions after he finished speaking. As anyone could guess by
those shoulders, he was quite an athlete in his day. The leader
of thePC’s played on the varsity football team when he attended
the University of ‘Toronto and played quite a bit of hockey in
Ontario in his youth. He is still yery interested in sport and is a
regular post-game visitor to the dressing room of the Toronto
Maple Leafs.

Mr. Drew thinks very highly of Dalhousie University, especially
of the law school, and commented that there are many graduates in
Ontario, some on the bench of that province. He stated that he didn’t
think the Canadian universities as a whole have played the part they
should in supplying leaders in governmental fields. “But,” he said
with a smile, “it would be an awful thing if parliament were composed entirely of Univefsity grads.” He was not so certain that the
opinions of students helped form government policy to any great extent, but admitted their qualifications through their studies to judge
on certain moves. “The study of the humanities is a very important
thing, and is not stressed as much today as it should be,” he stated.
Mr. Drew explained that the aim of the various university ProgressiveConservative groups is to stimulate interest in the party and to lead
university graduates into public life.

Now the precedent has been made and we think that the other
political groups on the campus will be forced to act in like manner.
% * % *

NOTES: DAL athletes did very well against the men of the
MAGNIFICENT. We won everything but the bowling. Those students who were fortunate enough to take part in hte tourney, met a
fine group of men in the officers of Canada’s greatest ship. A tour
of the ship, sandwiches and REFRESHMENTS were provided after
the contests—they shertainly had a wonniful time. The postponment
of the football game will help Dal as BOBBY WILSON, our backfield
Star, was a doubtful starter yesterday. There is a very good chance
that he will be ready if the game is played next week. Improving
every week, the DAL rugby TIGERS have a good chance of copping
the MeCURDY CUP which is emblematic of ruggah supremacy, The
Squash court is open to all at the gym and balls and racquets are
supplied via DAAC via THE STUDENT’S COUNCIL. It’s a great
game for those who haven’t a lot of time but need some exercise.
GORD CALDWALL is now known as the grand old man of the DENT
SOHOOL, The other day one of the first year students approached
him and sami, “Say chum, haven’t I seen you somewhere before ?”—

“Yes”, replied Gord, wiping a tear the size of a golf ball off the bag
under his right eye, “I used to teach you back in the St. John public

school,”

aad

 

Engineers Defeated By
Commerce Rugger Team

A powerful and spirited Commerce Rugby team moved into the
finals Wednesday last by swamping the Engineers 15-6. The game
was played during one of the wettest and muddiest days this season at King’s College Grounds.

After only two minutes of play,
Commerce established a lead of
three points when Don Smith
scored. From then on, the issue was
never in doubt as Commerce set the
pace and scored again as Rusty
McLean hit pay dirt. The En
gineers were continuously bottled

up as they could not get past the
hard tacklers of the Commerce
team. Playing inspired rugby, they
finally gained momentum, and a
try by Art Crowse put them back
in the game. However, this threat

_ was short-lived as Jack Hills gave

Commerce a 9-3 lead at half time

i

-~

on a thrilling thirty-five yard run.

  

ma ok! HY
j ee = Hgee
: sie oe &
" a? b
a
~“ ra

  

.. ry ‘
— haat ak
fi —~

 

beh ee oj eS

The second half had hardly
started ‘when Engineers plowed
deep into Commerce territory, but
again they were unable to solve the
solid Commerce defense. The tide
turned as Commerce regained the
offensive play; “Arpy” Robertson
scored, thus adding three more
points to the rising score. Commerce continued to press on the
Engineers forward line, but failed
to tally and the play moved to
mid-field. A kicking exchange followed between the fullbacks, but
Engineers finally regained possession of the ball. “Dipe” Marshall
took advantage of a fumble by
dribbling through the Engineers’
team, and eventually he fell on it
past the goal line for another try.

With moments remaining in the
game, the Engineers, not men that
would give up easily, surged in and
Danny Franklin scored.

DENTON LARGE ...

po peer encrmreniye Amey

SECT LE ae ARNE
ses % es

 

». COACH
Rugger Team Off
To Cape Breton

The Dalhousie Tiger’s English
Rugby team, champions of the
Halifax and District loop, will
leave tonight for Cape Breton
where they are to play the winner of the Island finals, currently
being fought out between New
Waterford and Glace Bay.

The winner of the Nova Scotia
championship will advance to meet
the Maritime Intercollegiate
champions (either St. Dunstan’s
of Charlottetown or Saint Francis
Xavier) for the McCurdy Cup and
the Maritime Senior Rugger title.

Entered only in the _ Intercollegiate league, last year the
Dalhousie Rugby team fought its
way to the Maritime Intermediate
championship by defeating Mount
Allison University. This year,
under the able coaching of Denton Large (see cut) an ex-professional of the English game, the
Tigers have high hopes of adding
the senior ond intercollegate titles
to their triumphs.

The McCurdy Cup, emblematic
of English Rugby supremacy in
the Maritimes has not been
brought back to Dal for over ten
years.

 

Canadian Game
Cancelled

The most widely advertised
football game of the year between
Dal and Navy scheduled for
Thursday last, was washed out by
what the weather bureau called
a “sudden tropical storm”. Certainly after the rain and howling
winds diminished, there was not
much left of the Wanderers’ field
but one-hundred yards of mud and
sickly grass, a field on which no
team could possibly perform a
creditable game. No future date
has been decided upon for the
crucial game.

New Basketball

 

Coach Announced

Jack Thomas is the newest addition to the coaching staff of the
D.A.A.C. He will take over the
position as basketball coach, for
the varsity team. Jack has been
one of the most outstanding
basketball enthusiast in the Maritimes for the past number of
years, amd thus should be well
qualified for the job. Practices
will begin next Wednesday, aceordnig to an announcement made
by “Don Woodword, manager. All

are encouraged to turn out.
eee

NOTICE

The positions of inter-faculty
manager for hockey and basketball are open to interested students. Those wishing to apply
should write to the Physical
Director or the Secretary-Treasurer immediately.

 

 

-_————-rrwn nn

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Tigers Take Ali Events Save One

In Invitation Meet

Thirty-four male athletes from Dalhousie University
descended on the little ship H.M.C.S. “Magnificent’’, last
Wednesday evening, and did battle in six different branches
of sport. The boys did well for they came out on top in
five or six events. This was the first lap in a return engagement match between the students and the Navy.

The series of events started inj team rompted to an easy 4-1 win,
the .squash courts of Stad gym,| With Bub and Don Heffler and

with Professor J. G. Adshead of
Dal suffering the first defeat of
the evening in two straight games
to Commander D. W., Piers, D.S.C.,
R.C.N., of the “Maggie”. John
MacCormak, in return racked out a
solid win, also in two straight
games over Lieutenant M. Mowatt.
Three other wins by Dalhousie
made by Dave ‘Churchill Smith,
Thomas ‘Windy’ O’Neil and Joseph
Levinson gave the students their
first victory of the evening.
Meanwhile on the main floor of
the gym, the Dal volleyball team
was eaking out a close win over
the boys in blue, by taking the

Gerry and Dave McCurdy responsible for the students goals and
O /Seaman Mills scoring the lone
tally for the navy.

Finally the “Magnificent” crew
gathered in their only win of the
day, by defeating a Dalhousie team
4,355-3,4384 on the bowling alleys.
High scorer of the match was
Chief Petty Officer Howard with a
total of 618 points.

The last event on the schedule
took place on the badminton courts,
A team of six students from Dalhousie completely overwhelmed a
team of the same number from the
“Maggie”, The outstanding match

occurred between Noel Hamilton
and Al Cleveland of Dal and Mr.
Arnott and Lieut. Stephens of the
navy. The former two, took the
first set 15-9 but lost the second
17-16, the third and deciding set
they won 15-10.

This was the culmination of the
evening’s athletic activities, but
after a light lunch of coffee and
sandwiches the boys were taken on
a tour of the ship and despite the
fact that some of them got lost
and haven’t been heard from since,
it is supposed that everyone was
satisfied with the whole occasion.

first and thrid games of the best
of three series, 15-8, and 15-13, losing the second to the navy 18-16.
Combining the best ability obtainable on the campus, the black
and gold captured their third victory of the night on the basketball
floor by the slim score of 50-43.
Out of practice, the boys naturally
lacked the class and teamwork expected of them in mid-season.
Nevertheless, they were able to
muster enough scoring power in
the the last four minutes of play
to overtake the seventeen point
lead gained by the carrier crew
earlier in the game, and thus taking the event. One of the unusual
sports of the evening in the form
of water polo brought to Dalhousie
its fourth victory. The varsity

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage deROSEDALE

volumes
and

signed by
speaks eloquent

; | of tenderness
University Mourns - (Continued from Page One)
Richter, the journal “Public Af- |
fairs” was created in 1937; the| ‘
Maritime Bureau of Industrial Re- |
lations was set up in 1943; the|
Maritime Labor Institute was in-|426 BARRINGTON ST. - Halifax
stituted in 1944, as was the Nova)
Scotia Municipal Bureau. :

In addition to numerous shorter) R RIC
phudieg an ereehoe Martie eT See A Te.

and economic problems the most
important of the books published Mon. - Tues. - Wed.
by the Institute under his editor- All-Thrill Show

love.

 

  

NURSERIES: Limited’...

 

The Greatest

ship were: Canada’s Unemploy- ; bag

: Of All ‘T
ment Problem, The Next Step in ‘ : ae
Canadian Education, Studies in The CONGORILLA
Maritime Provinces. and

These many activities Dr. Richter carried on with great skill and
untiring energy and the results of
his efforts have left a permanent
mark on the economic and social
life of the Maritimes. His pioneer
BORNEO
Photographed by Mr. and Mrs.
Martin Johnson

 

ing has been widely acclaimed
throughout the British Empire and
the United States.

Dr. Richter is survived by his
wife, the former Johanna Wezel,
and his son Eric, a student at
Dalhousie.

The funeral will be held Saturday, Nov, 18, at 2.30 p.m., from St.
Andrew’s Church. Interment will
be in Camp Hill Cemetery.

New Pens

A new pen is a faithful
friend when taking notes.
Drop in to see the new
models on display at
Birk’s.

Sheaffer, Waterman
Parker.

HENRY BIRKS &
SONS LIMITED

Registered Jeweller, American
Gem Society

Halifax, N. S.

"EXPORT

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

 
