 

 

=}

>

bee
niga ae
t
~

 

ei

   

BOB MACDONALD

Vol. LXXXI

re

 
   

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

HALIFAX, N. S8., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16th, 1948

  
  

¥

SHAKESPEARE

*

DON HARRISON

 

 

No. 14

 

TIGERS WIN LEAGUE LEADERSHIP

IN MAJOR UPSET OVER SAILORS


 

IT’S MACDONALD AGAIN—Bob MacDonald, Dalhousie plunging half, repeatedly raced through the Navy defence for long gains in
Saturday’s game. He is shown above just a8 he was brought to a halt
by three Navy tacklers. Ed MacLeod, Navy halfback, (20) appears left.

Noted English Author Discusses
Elizabethan Period and the “Bard”

Dr. E. M. Tillyard, Master of Jesus College, Cambridge,
gave an interesting talk on Monday, to the students in the
gym on Shakespeare’s world and the effect of the belief of the
day on his works. Only by noting the wonders and complexity of the world can we understand the “full scope of

 

Shakespeare’s assertion, ‘All the world’s a stage’ ”’.
The people of the Elizabethan®©———-—————————_

age were religious, realistic and
serious, but in the poetry they express themselves in exuberant and
artificial language. —

Contrast was the keynote of the
time, In nature and even man
himself there are contrasts. Many
of the poets chose to contrast the
“eternity of heaven with the mutability of earth.” But the contrast
within the world is obscured by the
chaos and ugliness of sin. The
contrasts of Elizabethan times are
truer to life than the simplicity
which is evident in 18th century
poetry.

Dr. Tillyard explained that although Queen Elizabeth was idealized by the poets of the time, there
was some reason for it, because
she averted a possible second war
of the Roses, and also succeeded in
repelling the invader. Elizabeth
believed that the world was founded on the conception of Divine
order, but there were four disturbing foes, which were: “Copernicus,
who said that the earth was. not
the fixed centre of the universe...
Machiavelli, who saw the moral
laws differently, being relative,
empirical and utilitarian. La Fontaine, denied that animals were
made for man’s benefit, and the
discovery of the new world changed class distinction even though it
was not very rigid in England at
that time.

Dr. Tillyard concluded with a
comparison of three poems, which
showed that man is playing in a
great drama watched by the whole
of creation.

ad

NOTICE

The Med Society Fall Dance will
be held in the Gym this Friday
night, with Les. Single’s orchestra
in attendance. Tickets are $1.50 a
couple, with fifty cents off to holders of Med Society cards.

Tigers Surge

 

 

From Behind In Dying

Minutes of Action-Packed Game; Down

Navy 15-12 In Hard-Fought Struggle

By KEN PHELPS

It was “The Big Game’”’.

It was the greatest game of Canadian Football ever played East of Montreal.

All the spills and upsets and tingling thrills that make football the greatest spectator sport were dished up to the dinner-time crowd in tremendous variety.

It had a moving-picture finish that made Frank Merriwell look like a piker.

Shaw Addresses
C.C.U.F. Meeting

The Canadian Commonwealth
University Federation held their
first meeting last Friday afternoon
in Room 38 of the Art’s building.

The guest speaker for the event] |

was Mr. Shaw the provinical secretary of C.C.F. Mr. Shaw said
that the next twelve months
would see a great amount of political activity in the federal field
but that the activity in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland would be of
equal importance.” As far as I
know the C.C.F. if the only major
democratic party in the history of
our country to be financed by the
man in the street.” Mr. Shaw paid
tribute to the late Dr. Richter refering to him as an ideal immigrant and a great social benefactor.

Mr. Gordon Black the president
of the C.C.U.F. announced the intention of the Dalhousie group to

(Continued on Page Four)

Federal Public Service Welcomes
_ Student Employees During Summer

University students contemplating a career in the Federal Public
Service will have an opportunity to
discuss the subject with examiners
of the Civil Service Commission on
November 29 and 80th.

Mr. G. A. Blackburn will visit
Dalhousie campus on the above
dates for the purpose of acquainting the faculty and students with
all aspects of Civil Service employment.

The Commission hopes to encourage a greater number of the better University students to consider
government employment, The experience of two previous tours in
Canada lends encouragement to
this view.

The Commission is also prepared
to offer part-time employment to
undergraduate and graduate students during the summer months.

The field of employment embraces virtually every specialization in the physical and social sciences. The accent, in so far as

numbers are concerned, is on those
fields having to do with engineering and applied seience.

Conservatives Discuss
Plans For Nova Scotia

Mr. Don Houston the Dominion
Secretary of the Young Progressive Conservative party addressed
the members of the local club last
Friday afternoon in the Munroe
room of the Dal law school. Mr.
Houston discussed organization and
pointed out a possible program for
the group in Nova Scotia.

The meeting was opened by a
formal motion to thank Dr. Drew
for coming to the campus. Mr. A.
Harris and Mr. J. McAuley were
then thanked for their organizing
of the meeting where Mr. Drew
spoke. The assembly closed with
the appointment of Mr. Harris and
Mr. McAuley as the permanent
publicity committee on the campus,

/

 

 

BILL BURKART

PETE FERON
* * ©

Bob MacDonald, “Mr. Football” at Dalhousie for the past two
years, scored the winning touchdown.. With a minute left to play in
the game, third down and two yards to go for a touchdown for Dalhousie, everyone in the Wanderers grounds watched the old No. 13.
They all knew Bob MacDonald would carry the ball—even the Navy
team knew it would be Bob MacDonald plunging.

 

And plunge he did. He took a direct snap and dynamited through
the Sailors’ line for the winning score. It was the most thrilling moment of any football game ever played here.

But it was diminutive “Pistol Pete’? Feron who set up the score.
Regaining the old running savvy which made him a star last season,
he raced through a solid mass of Navy tacklers, only to be stopped on
the Sailors four yard stripe.

Murray Malloy opened the scoring for the Tigers in the second
quarter when he kicked into touch behind the Navy goal line.

Dal increased their lead early in the third canto when Gerry
Brown blocked Ed McSweeney’s kick on the Navy 15, and Navy recovered in their end zone for a safety to give Dal a 8-0 lead.

It was Dal 9, Navy 0 at the end of the third quarter after Don
Harrison kicked two field goals, one from the 40 yard line and one, at
a difficult angle, from the 30 yard line.

Beginning the final quatrer, Navy proceeded to march 85 yards,
and again 50 yards, for two touchdowns that put them in the lead 12-9.
Murray and Padre Ivan Edwards scored the T.D.’s and Decker kicked
the converts.

Trailing by three points, Dal marched to the Navy 40, where
Harrison lateraled to Feron who raced to the Navy 25. On the next
play Feron gave a brilliant display of broken field running to reach
the Navy 4. Lee moved the ball to the one yard line on a quarterback
sneak, and after an end run had lost two yards, MacDonald scored.
Harrison kicked the convert, and Dal took first place in the league
by virtue of a 15-12 victory.

In the final play of the game, O’Brien passed to Naylor, Navy
end, who ran to the Dal 10. The game ended there, and many people
thought that one more play would have resulted in a TD for Navy.
No one noticed that the referee had called the pass “No good” because
O’Brien was_past the line of scrimmage when he threw the ball. If
there had been another play, it would have been at centre field.

There were great plays, and individual players who rose to great
heights, but there were, actually, no individual stars. The star of the
game was the Dalhousie football team. The margin of victory might
have been in the lines of the two teams. Navy’s was weaker.

 
  
 
 

  
  

| CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 * a + e. es

  
 

    

  

  

: , «

eI j
1 : np? .
2 Sat ap
Mos hr ai
As

 
 

Editors-in-Chief
as D. LUSHER A. MOREIRA
gry Editor Business Manager

ROBIN MACLEAN

     
   
 
 
  
 
    
   

th oe * * a % * z
pc, pee’ Wo
ss IN CHARGE OF THIS ISSUE

News . Sports Features
RED LAMPERT BOB MeQUINN MARJ GOLBURGH

K “nae LOCKWOOD
Wye ) Reporters:—Barbara McGeough, Dorothy Saffron,
P. Simon, D. Soberman
_. Photographers:—Erie Richter, Dan Soberman
Assistant Business Manager:—Alfred Harris
a | Printed by McCurdy Print, 54 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S.

November 16, 1948 No. 14

    
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   

 

death eame as a. Stk not only to friends
sie, » but also to men of the labour, ‘busi
  
   

   

Ph asters To The Editor

Sent alex, N. S.,
ie a ea November 15, 1948

  
    
     
  
  
   
       
   
  
  
   

ping-pong and badminton (in which
many participate) get by with a
mere $278. Perhaps many of the
students would like to know the
answers to these questions, and it
would seem the obligation of those
whom they have elected to the
Council to supply the information.
In closing, I would like to ask a
question myself. What kind of a
game is “general”, and who plays
it? I am curious about these modern entertainments and I would be
obliged if someone taught me the
finer points.
Respectfully submitted,
James A, Proudfoot.

Ate is
' a ‘sir:
Re ‘Financial summary November 8, 1948, If brevity was the purpose of the statement of revenue
and expenditure, the Students
Council has my congratulations. If
ys statement was submitted for
the purpose of giving the students
_ a fair idea of the disposition of the
ge they are still wondering
ef , whether oid lace was used in the

    
 

between engineers and the rest of
the student body last year.

Collier said the paper had not
been ready to accept criticism,
particularly on two charges of inadequate news coverage made in
past years made by members of
the Undergraduate Societies Committee,

The paper had conducted personal attacks against students,
harming their reputations and the
reputation of the university. It
was also charged with distorting
and sensationalizing the news.

Defending the Ubyssey, Les
'| Bewley maintained it had peril-|}formed its function of reporting
“The ‘student activities. The Ubyssey
t ts not, be ret for the

   

is a Diy Viviccs:
ry Scored By Forum

ir cca, of the Daily
Speen has resulted in the apeen of a liaison officer to
i ie ee? "between student governba ih Ah ‘ment and ‘the pa paper at the Uni-|
--versit; of British Columbia.

The paper was termed “detrime ” 0 ‘the 2 easter by stu
      
      
      
       
 
   
          

  

     
 

 
 

    
   
  
 
      
    
  
   
  

   

 

 
  
 

Sunday, Noy. 14—Up early and
by water to the Arcadia monastery
where I did observe many waterbabies disporting themselves, al
‘though gently, under the watchful

eye of their leader, Watch’em Kirkstalin. Was much displeased to see
that all there were wearing chains
about their legs attached at the
other end to heavy iron spheres.

This was to keep them from
wandering to Hanson’s — a local
tavern where great pleasures are
supposed to be had. I went there
and found it only an ordinary inn
with poor ale and common French
wine,

Much was said by the students
there that they were being kept behind a drapery made of iron and
bolted firmly, and they are loathe
to give any praise to their president.

They have a most unhappy
home life, and are forced to live in
small, bare cubicles, and must not
leave without permission, and all of
their time is taken up with studies.
They are not allowed to partake of
good ale, and cannot play at football as do the scholars at Dullhousie.

Indeed I was sure that they are
a dull lot, and cannot look forward
to any great future.

Disgusted, I home again by
water where I did learn that in the
great football game against the
Sailors, the scholars from the college on the hill had won in a very
exciting and vicious game.

After celebrating the contest, I
to home and to bed, much disgusted with my trip to Arcadia.

Monday, Noy. 15—Slept late and
rose after reading of a book for a
political science subject which 1
am taking at the college on the
hill—I am to write a review of the
book and I do see much in it to
criticize, which I shall do, and well
I hope.

Walked down to Sour’s Inn
wherein I did discover many students discussing the great football
game of Saturday. Many did say

| that George Mattison (a most diffi
cult name) was over-zealous in
knocking a Navy player into the
grandstand or almost, while others
did say it was a fine deed.

There was also a great deal of
conversation about the list of
moneys expended and gained by the
Council of Students, and some did
say the list, which appeared in the
Spectator (early edition) was too
short, and did not tell everything
that was to be told,

I did remark that the whole, long
story would be told at a Forum of
the scholars to be held in the gymnasium soon, and others did say
that nobody ever went to a Forum,
which unfortunately seems to be
the true case.

Tuesday, Nov. 16—On the street
early and to the Gym Inn where I
had a fine new drink called Rhum,
which did cause me to tingle all
over.

Readied myself for the contest
between the money students and
the students of letters who this
afternoon are to play a great game
of the old style rugby, at King’s
cathedral. Great honor will be
given the winners who are to be
known by all as the champions of
the between-faculty athletics.

Great talk today that the flying
sailors from across the Thames will
sadly defeat the sea-going Navy
from the old town. I do not think
so, and haye wagered with several
that Navy will win tomorrow, and
so I hope they will, that the scholars may play them once again.

Twice the scholars have trounced the sailors and twice the con
tests have been of great interest,

stirring even my old friend [lack

| | oo to ae about them.

 

Phone 4-1233 |
y

24 HOUR SERVICE

128 and 130 Gottingen St.

 

STUDENTS

If you are planning a frat
or class party, you need the
best in music.

For the best in Halifax call .

4-4450

FRED COVEY

941, ALLEN ST.

Currently playing the Nova
Scotian Hotel supper dances

 

 

SERVICE. mes

® SUPPLIES _

@ EQUIPMENT
@ REPAIRS

@ ASSISTANCE

the

CAMERA SHOP

of the Maritimes Ltd.
26 BLOWERS ST. — 3-8524

 

   

It’s not too early to do
your Christmas planning.

  

A visit to Birks will
help and a deposit holds
your selection.

HENRY BIRKS &
SONS LIMITED

Registered Jeweller, American ©
Gem Society

Halifax, N. 8S.

 

   

Featuring—

Attractively set up departments

@® BOOKS
; @® MUSIC
@ RECORDS
@® PIANOS
@® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES

Willis Piano Co. Limited

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N.S.

 
   
   
    

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N. S.

PO

4 Its time to think of Christmas
And its days of good cheer.

f Before you look around,

Once again it will be here.
And then of course your need of
clothes

Will much greater be,

So to have them cleaned and pressed
Be sure Don Schelew to see.

Cctenineniciiennmainaale

Call at

DON SCHELEW’S

Scientific and Odorless Dry Cleaning

Plant: 40 Morris Street

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

 
    
  
 

Branch Store: 1389 Hollis Street

DIAL 3-8423

Dalhousie Anibersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, and Laboratories in the Maritimes

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

Degrees of:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Music
Bachelor of Education
Master of Arts
Master of Science

 

Diplomas in:
Engineering
Education
Music

Pharmacy
Hospital’ Pharmacy
Mining Geology

Pre-Professional Courses
Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
Inclusive Fees in the B.A. Course average about $186.00 a year
in the B.Sc. Course, about $236.00 a year
Twenty-four entrance scholarships, each of a maximum value
of $600.00, available to students selected on basis of record of marks
in quarterly and final examinations in any Maritime school or

Junior College.

Many other valuable scholarships offered through the courses.

 

The Professional Faculties
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall—one of the finest Women’s

Residences in the Dominion.

Residence is provided f ear
men in the University Men’s Residence. or first y

Other men students live

in either of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved

homes,
students.

Special accommodation is provided for married ex-service

Meals for all students : are available at the University.
: For full hie RES ~ to

er

  

F "
4 J

  
           
     
 
  

 
   
   

    
   
 
 
  
 
   
  
 

 

 
ea "Ry RB Levey ,
From its cobwebbed, secluded
Pawel on Friday night, November
_ the 12th., many a “have seen better days” tals were drawn, pressed
_ and polished and conscripted into

service fo rthe Big Event, the Law
i.’ Ball,

ent which

   

The Nova Scotian Hotel was a

_ busy spot with its wide spacious

halls and corridors ringing with

laughter and merriment.

John Ballem, Leo MacIntyre, and
Richard Miller are to be congratulated, for their effort, from all

‘quarters comes the gratifying news

that the party was most successful
in all respects. In future events I
suggest that these men be kept in
mind such talent is not always
available and we should take advantage of their presents and ap
- titudes.

From my vantage point on Friday night I could see great gatherings, dancing, chattering and
drinking “COKE”, and some concockshtn with grapefruit seeds in
it,

A host of celebrities were presincluded Sir Joseph
Chisholm, The Hon. and Mrs, Angus L. Macdonald, The Hon. L. D.
Currie, John Fisher; C.B.C. correspondent and commentator as a
guest of the editors of the Dalhousie Gazette, Dean and Mrs. V.
C. MacDonald, Betty “Jean Ferguson, Dr. Hancock, Mr. and Mrs.
Milner, Mr. and Mrs. Feeney, not
to mention the many members of

Law Society .

_ Les Single’s Band, very capably
handled the music and dancing was
a delight with such natural scenery aS was provided by the water
front. (pun).

The evening as well as being en
tertaining was a meeting point for

wives and girl friends who seemed
more adapted to the crowds and

 “OOKES” than some of the mem
bers of the Law Society, although

some of the members put up an
able defense, in the latter.

After the evening of dancing a
large scale evacuation went into
effect, to a local restaurant where
the atmosphere continued until the

wee hours of the morning.

The debate between Arts and
Seience and Law was postponed
due to a inadequate number of persons to participate in the Oxford
Union style debate, a later will be
announced when this will take
place.

“DANCING
SATURDAY
NIGHT”

eae

NOT ONE
NOT TWO

 

Sorry to have missed the last
issue but we were in no shape to
write anything since we were just
convalescing for the Halloween
party. By all accounts both fraternity parties were really special affairs and everyone celebrated the black and orange day
in true Med School style.

By the way there is to be a
last social fling before the Christmas exams. The party or should
we say “The Med Fall Dance”
will be held on the nineteenth day
of November. This if fairly late
in the year but surely we all
should be able to take the time
for such a gala affair. Here is a
chance for Med Society ticket
holders to make fifty cents—you
get a $1.50 ticket for $1.00.

There seems to be very little of
interest in the Med Society lately,
guess we’ll have to have another
meeting to liven things up a bit.

Let us all hope that Aggie and
Dick, who are in Montreal on
CAMSI business, do not forget
the reason for their being in the
big city. Good luck at the convention and be sure to bring back the
news that Dalhousie will be the
site of the next National Executive. Have a good time but come
back in reasonably good shape.
Yes — we know.

Congratulations to Cliff Hopman for the fine football he has
been playing. Glad to. see you
playing for the Gold and Black—

Exams are approaching very
rapidly and as yet we are not able
to use the library as we should.
When preparing for an exam
most of us really need to study a
little later than ten thirty. It is
alright to say that the library is
open long enough but we firmly
believe that the incidence of failures will be horribly increased.
That is’a thought that should be
considered by those who impose
such strict hours.

GARRICK
THEATRE

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.
2 BIG HITS!
Blondie’s Reward

and

 

Bulldog Drummond
Strikes Back

 

     

OXFORD
THEATRE

WED. and THURS.

Wild Harvest
and

 
       
         

 

   

Decoy

     

FRI. and SAT,

Prince Of Thieves
Woman In White

      
      
         
  
 

CASINO
THEATRE
@
TUES. - WED. - THURS.
Hollow Triumph
Paul HENREID

Joan BENNETT

%
FRI. - SAT. - MON.

ik our + Faces West

  
 
 
 
  
  
 

 

   
 
 
    
 
    

   
  

 
 
   

The main activity of the past
week took place on Tuesday night
when all good Dents and their
dream gals swung and swayed to
the music of Clive Schaefer’s
sextet at the tea room of the Nova
Scotian Hotel. The event was the
annual Dental Ball. Chaperones
were Dr, and Mrs. Bagnall and Dr.
and Mrs. Chudleigh. We were
specially pleased by the presence
of a great many other faculty
members and their wives. Among
the recent graduates present was
Dr. D. C. Stevens who is now practicing in Moncton.

We wish to acknowledge our appreciation for the untiring efforts
of Mr. and Mrs. Pete McCarton in
balloon busting—great credit is
also due Ned Banks for lighting
effects, .

Bill and Gerry, our eligible bachelors, are voted the luckiest dents
this week thanks to Mr. Arthur’s
bevy of beauties.

Over in Joe’s the other night our
chiel Goofer overheard this conversation—so we thought we’d pass it
on to you just as told to us,

Student to pretty co-ed—
danee—I suppose”.

Sweet young co-ed—“Oh, I love
to”.

Student — “Swell — that’s much
more fun than dancing, anyhow”,

“You

On the...
Political Front

Political clubs are increasing
their Campus activities this year,
with long lists of guest speakers,
and large numbers of discussion
groups. First to score a major triumph this term were the Progressive-Conservatives with National Leader Drew last week.
Rumours are current that the other
clubs are looking for front-rank
speakers as well.

Tonight’s gathering features
the Liberals with the Hon. L. D.
Currie in the Engineer’s Common Room.

The Campus C.C.U.F. will hear
Mrs. Gladys Strum, only woman
member of Parliament, in the near
future,

The big debate Sodales had
planned on the subject of the
Marshall Plan fell through due.
to lack of attendance. Everybody was at the Shirreff Formal,
apparently.

Rumours to the effect that an
L.P.P. group is forming on the
Campus have aroused some interest. Perhaps leader Tim Buck —
who gets pelted with vegetables
once a year at U.B.C.—will come
down here.

The Red Dean of Canterbury.
will speak at the U. of T. this
week, in spite of earlier reports.
which said either that he had not
time, or that he was not wanted.
to speak.

Political activity here, if it has
as much support on the Campus as
the tumult and shouting indicate,
is a change of heart for Dal. Three
years ago the earnest and highminded on the Campus presented a
petition to the Students’ Council
requiring that the Gazette stop
carrying political news prominently.

Universities across Canada
have now allowed their students.
to join political clubs, with one,
notable exception—Queen’s.

 

    

LIKE THE NEW
HAIR DO’S

Your hair needs to be properly
eut, permanent waved and
dressed,

We do them all properly and
distinctly at

HARRIETTES
BEAUTY SHOP

98 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Mills Bids. — 38-7022

   
   

x
‘FO GS
* wad

Page Three

"AND SOME COME BACK

FROM THE TORONTO VARSI Te

They did not come back to a land fit for heroes, because
they were not heroes. They did not come back to a country
which honored them, because they knew they had gained no
honor. Thy did not come back expecting gratitude, because
they knew they had little for which to be grateful. They had
failed, and they knew it. They had set out to do a great thing.
They had given all that a man could give; “Greater love than
this hath no man.”—and they knew it had been in vain.

They knew the world was no better than it had been
when they marched away. They knew there was no room for
charity toward their fellow men in a world still reeking with
hatred. They knew the world had only stopped for breath before it was ready to plunge itself into another vortex of terror. They knew that the pious platitudes said over the graves
of their dead fellows were made in honor of the deeds they
had done—and not in shame for what had happened.

And they knew that they and their children would march
out again to the same thing. They knew that all they had
known would be forgotten as the leaders of society converted
those hideous years into something great and glorious — a
golden calf wherein to worship their own pomposity.

They saw around them grouped the bureaucrats crying
in holy horror. ‘The foe once more dares to ask that some of
my self-righteousness be diluted. Rise up ye gallant men and
fight” they shout to all the mob.

“We will win” they scream. “Have we not the greatest
weapons on our side? Is not God on our side?”

Dear God, what sacrileges have been perpetrated in Your
name before the altar of Mars!

. O, if you send our children out to war,

. . . If we should see that gut-quaking, soul-shattering
fear written on their faces as they face death.

. .. If we must pick their mangled bodies from the mud,
and hold their torn bodies to our hearts,

. . . If we shall see them straggling home again—hopeless men, defeated men, desperate men, old, old men of
nearly thirty.

We will curse those who will have sent them out, for if

there be a Hell, its darkest corner is not deep enough for
what they shall deserve.

 

 

ENTITLED TO ONE BITE... even a dog tried to help Navy out
on Saturday as Navy tacklers bring down Murray Malloy, in spite of
the fact that he didn’t quite get the pass.

 

 

Meet your friends at
THE

Riviera Tea Room
85 Spring Garden Road

Give a

MACASKILL
PICTURE

GAUVIN &
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS

MACASKILL’S

475 Barrington St.

 

 
 
    
  
  
 

and
BLUE PRINTING

  
   
 

  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

ees

456 Barrington St.

881, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

   
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
     
   
 
    
 

 

  

THE

GREEN LANTERN
RESTAURANT

   
   
  
  
  
   
  

   

Where you will find a

   
   
 
  
 
  
   
 

complete Music Service
and the finest
Sports Equipment.

“The sign of a good meal’
e ~
407-409 Barrington St.

 

 

   
   
 

 
  
   
 

 

 
  

   

 

roe

os
va
7
u
=

. Read
; a “ra “
c= 3 ze i

 

  

 

  

* *

Bretoners Score In Dying Minutes
Of Game To Rob Tigers Of Maritime

English Rugby Championship | in Glace Bay

GIRLS’ SPORTS

by NOELLE BARTER

 

Hear ye! Hear ye! Reason why
the girls didn’t enter the Dalhousie - Stadacona competition
could be that the Shirreff Hall
girls were going to the formal
that night. Remember, there are
107 girls in the Hall and a great
many of them have been turning

out to practice for the various

teams. Congratulations boys, you
did a fine job.

The-sport that still occupies the
spot-light is ground hockey. This
Saturday Edgehill will journey
here to meet the Dal Tigresses,
Game time is not definite ‘but it
will be played sometime in the
morning. How about a little encouragement from the _ sidelines.
Some date after this game will
be set for the annual game between the guys and gals. No,
fellas, you can’t wear brass
knuckles. The game is usually
fun to watch, despite the rain—
which must be present to make
the game complete.

There was an Executive meeting
of the D.G.A.C. last Sunday and
it was tressed that to be eligible
for any letter one’ must attend
75% of their tedm practices. It
was decided that Jean Bowers

-would be acting archery manager

until a new manager can be found.

There will be no D.G.A.C, tonight but it will be held tomorrow
night from 6-8 o’clock. All regular activities except the Interclass basketball game.  Incidentally, the seniors won their game
with the sophs last Tuesday by
default, |

HOUSE OF DAVID
MEETS DAL GRADS

The House of David, bearded
basketballers who roam the country in search of exhibition hoop
contests and, with startlingly few
exceptions, win, will take on the
Dalhousie Grads in the Dalhousie
gymnasium Thursday night, according to an announcement by
Tommy Sweet, manager of the
Grads,

The. Grads, not all graduates,
will carry some Dalhousie students
who are no longer eligible for intercollegiate competition.

Some of these are likely to be
Alex Farquhar, Charlie Connelly,
Don Woodward, Carl Giffen. Some
of the Grads who will play are
Bernie Creighton and Alfie Cunningham, and several others whose
names have not been announced.

The Grads are out to make
enough money to pay for the
guarantee required to bring the
House of David, including a seven
foot, three inch forward, down
here. As the Grads do wear the
Dalhousie colors, and do publicize
Dalhousie University, the team are
hoping for a strong turnout from
the Dal students.

 

 

Shaw Addresses-
‘(Continued from Page One)
attend the coming CCF convention
at Halifax, Nov. 18, 19, 20. The
group also intend to send resolutions for the party platform.

The next meeting of the group
will be held Thursday, Nov. 19, at
1.10 P.M. in the Munroe Room of
the Law School, when Mrs. G.
Strum, Canada’s only woman
M.P., will address the group.

 

op
RUGGER STARS—Two of the players who have been consistent

performers with Dalhousie English Rugby teams, and who played in
the game against Glace Bay Saturday, are shown above. They are
Alex Farquhar and Bill, “Foo” Grant (Captain).

* * * &

After advancing to the semi-finals of the Maritime Rugby Championship by winning the Halifax City Senior League, Dalhousie Tigers
suffered a defeat at the hands of the Glace Bay Athletic Club Saturday.
In a free wheeling but tight-scoring game at Glace Bay, Dal held their
own with the home team only to lose out in the dying minutes by a
9 to 6 score.

It was clear from the start that only the breaks would decide the
game and no scoring came until the second half when O’Dell took a
pass from Cadegan. There was no convert. Soon after Morrow of Dal
scooped up a fumbled ball and raced through the Bay team for three

 

   
  

points, however the convert failed again.

O’Dell scored his second major
of the game about midway through
the half after a much disputed
drop on the Dal goal line as Grant,
the linesman, ruled no touch but
referee McNeil upheld the score
and the Bay boys lead 6—3.

Roaring down the field in a matter of seconds, the enraged Tigers
shuffled the ball through several
scrums and before the opponents
eould gather their wits they were
scored upon. Frederickson picked
up the ball and raced into pay dirt,
but again the convert failed.

The sharpest play of the game
was reserved until the end when

the Glace Bay crew passed the ball
down to Dal 15 yard line. From
there the Bay’s scrum was highly
effective and the ball was wipped
out by Demont to O’Dell and Cadegan. Then Morrison received and he
plunged across the Dalhousie goal
line.

Leslie, Cruikshank, Morrow, Guidry and Frederickson were outstanding while O’Dell, Cadegan
and Demont took honours for the
Bay. Lineup for Dal was: Seegar,
Grayston, Guidry, Farquhar, Reardon, Kinsman, Leslie, Frederickson,
Nickerson, Grant, Morrow, Lynch.
Kerr, and Delorey.

Artsmen, Commerce To Meet For
Interfaculty Crown Wednesday

The final game for the Interfac
Rugby Football Championship will
be staged today, Nov. 16th, between Commerce and Arts &
Science. Starting time will be
1.30 p.m., at King’s field.

The highly rated Arts’ and
Science will be the pre-game
favorites, due to their unbeaten
record in the league so far this
year. They have a well balanced
team with the two outstanding
scorers, Scott Henderson and
George Nichols in the backfield.
The team, though young, is also
well known for its tackling ability
with many an opposing player
clipped before he had a chance to
get started. Their wins this year
have been decisive, proving that
the old stand-bys from the professional faculties are unable to
keep up with the fleetfooted freshmen and sophomores.

Nevertheless, the Commerce
men can not be underrated. Last
Wednesday they defeated the slipping Engineers, 15-6, though they
lost the services of Chic Fancy,
their fastest back and a sure scoring punch. Harley Frowd, Struen
Robertson, Jack Hills and John

Bowes, all freshmen, will handle
the backfield against the mighty
A. &.§. team,* with Jim Cox,

Richard Marshall and Don Smith
holding the forward wall. The
team had plenty of spirit last

Wednesday and they played good
football. If they can do the same
this afternoon the championship
may be theirs.

The possible
games are:

Arts and Science: Ian and Scott
Henderson, George Kerr, Fuss
Foster, Newcomb Bloomer, Walter Hyrnyshyn, Stratus Polous,
George Nichols, Dave McCurdy
and Norm Beckett.

Commerce: Jim Cox, P. Horne,
Reg McCullough, John Bowes,
Don Smith, Richard Marshall,
Struen Robertson, Jack Hills, Harley Frowd, Bobs MacDougal aad
Frank Rodgers.
sli circle ers |

LIBERAL CLUB MEET

The Honourable L. D. Currie,
Provincial Attorney General, will
address members of the Liberal
Club at an open meeting to be held
tonight at the Engineers’ Common
Room at 7.30,

line-up for the

 

 

EVERYTHING FOR THE SPORTSMAN
visit

THE SPORTS LODGE

90 GRANVILLE ST.

 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

EDGED BY GLACE BAY, 9-6

  

Campus Roundup
by Windy O'Neill

   

 

The Navy team left the Wanderer’s grounds Saturday afternoon reeling like a sea horse. They had just absorbed their second
straight defeat at the hands of the determined Dalhousie Tigers—
their only defeats in two years. It was probably the greatest game
of the Canadian Football ever played in these parts and in spite
of the early starting time and the uncertain weather, there was

close to two thousand people on hand.
* a *

There were no outstanding stars—the Dalhousie football team was
the star. The game was typical playoff football with the first half
showing caution on both sides and the second half bursting with daring
passes and hell-bent for goalline running. The scoring indicated the
play, the lead fluctuating from one team to the other, and the play
from one end to the other. Dalhousie went ahead with less than two

minutes to play the game ended with the ball on Dal’s ten yard line.
t * +

This joust banished all doubts about Canadian Football from
the minds of the skeptical. This corner has seen better played
football but none more exciting. Next week will be a red-letter
week for football fans, the semi-final game between Navy and Air
Station on Wednesday afternoon (we call the Dartmouth boys) and
the fifinal with Dal and the winners on Saturday.

* * *

FLASHES ON THE GAME: Malloy’s 60 yard punt from his own
ten to turn back a Navy Drive. Bob MacDonald’s best game in a Dal
uniform, Peterson’s roaring plunges: Paul Lee’s safe-and-sure quarterbacking. Mattison’s terrific end blocking. Joe Levison’s determined tackling. Hopman’s defensive work—the best centre in the league. Pete
Feron, who has played ordinary ball this year, coming through with the
run that spelled victory for the Tigers. Donny Harrison who averaged
over twenty yards in every run-back. Bert Oull and his other line co
horts, in whom, lies Dalhousie’s strength and the real margin of victory.
x *

This campus column would not be worthy of its name if we
did not pay our respects to the passing of a great Dalhousie man,
scholar and friend. Dr. Lothar Ritcher was taken tragically from
us, last week in a motor accident. He was not born here in our land,
-but he loved his adopted country. His cause was that of the labouring man of the Maritimes, whose lot he improved immeasureably,
and from whom, significant tribute came even from the remotest
union local, in the remotest part of these provinces; solemn réspects came, also, from Ottawa and from management. To Dalhousie, he will be irreplaceable; his cherry greeting and his willing
help have passed, but his work and spirit will remain with us.

* * %

NOTES: The HALIFAX WEATHER BUREAU have thrown meteorological science to the winds. Now, they just consult the schedule of
Halifax Canadian Football League, and on their playing dates, regardless of the isobars, predict rain. Congrats to the Tiger rugby tem,
they didn’t beat the highly touted Glace Bay outfit but they came
mighty close. The Dal boys gave their best and no more can be asked
of any team. Western U. MUSTANGS lost to TORONTO after winning
twenty-six straight and breaking an old record held by Queens of
twenty-five consecutive victories. There is much comment up-country
about the conduct of Western fans. McGILL was thought to be playing
dirty football and the Mustang supporters restored to racial and religious comments — mighty poor stuff. There are now CANADIAN
FOOTBALL teams at ST. JOHN, MONCTON, and ST. JOSEPH’S
UNIVERSITY. We think that the present TIGERS would give the
McGILL team that visited us this year, quite a lacing in a return go.
Would the FOOTBALL LEAGUE kindly invest in a less rusty yard
chain and stop holding up the game?

 

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in’ Halifax in 1841

 

   

We specialize in Footwear
that will fit every college
taste — for either service
or. dress wear, for around
the campus or attending
social functions.

 
 
 
 
  
   
 

READ

Nova Scotia’s Two
Great Newspapers

THE HALIFAX
HERALD

THE HALIFAX
MAIL

Circulation Exceeds

90,000 Daily

We cordially invite you to
pay us a visit. We present
such lines as

“Hart, “Slater” “Murray”
‘and “Ritchie”

SHANE’S
SHOE STORE

397 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax

 

 
