    
   

   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
       
       

Dal-Wanderers

at 2.30

Vol. LXXXI

/

Canada’s Oldest Student Publication

HALIFAX, N. S8., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2nd, 1948

 
   

 

   

Dal-Navy Game

Armistace Day

 

 

No, 10

 

r
;
i
@
os
s

 

(Gasette Photo by Richter)

From the above picture it would seem that the Gazette photographer
had been blowing marihuana smoke rings at his camera, just before
taking the picture. However, we have it on good authority that the gentleman on the left is human. However, we would suggest that the
alumni hand out less potent smokes at all future smokers.

 

George Drew Expected

To Speak In Halifax

The Munroe Room of the Dal@————-—————

Law School was the scene of a
meeting of~the Progressive Conservative club last Wednesday afternoon. Bill Cox presided, and
opened the meeting with a short

Conservative convention in Halifax.
The highlight of the convention
will be the final meeting at the

- Capitol Theatre at 8 p. m., Noy.

10, when Dominion Party Leader
George Drew will introduce the
new provincial leader.

Five hundred delegates,  representing every section of the
Maritimes, will attend the convention. Among them will be two voting delegates from the DalhousieKings association, and two delegates at large. This association will
also be represented on the resolutions committee by one member.
The meeting unanimously decided
that this member should be Mr.
Cox. Other students chosen as representatives were Ron Black, a
former P..C. President, Mr. A. O.
Gunn, and Mr. James Harding.

The club will extend an invitation to Mr. Drew to address the
students of Dalhousie during his
visit to Halifax,

The meeting closed with the motion that the four representatives
form a resolutions committee and
prepare all resolutions reported to
them by any Progressive Conservative on the Forrest and Studley
campii.

 

IN SYMPATHY

The staff of the Gazette, on
behalf of the student body,
wishes to extend sincere expressions .of sympathy to Jack
Lusher in his recent bereavement.

  

Gazette Needs

‘Larger Staff

outline of the coming Progressive |

The Gazette is in dire need of
new additions to its staff. At present there are openings for a circu
_lation manager, rewriters and typ
ists.

The job of circulation manager
requires two hours work on either
Friday afternoon or Saturday
morning.

Rewriters and typists, who can
afford to put in an odd spare hour
in the Gazette office, are asked to
contact the editors.

Points towards a gold D can be
earned for any of these positions.

 

Engineers To
Visit Trenton

On Thursday last at the meeting
of the Dalhousie Engineering Society, members decided to hold
their Annual Trip for Third Year
Students on Thursday, Nov. 4. This
year’s tour will be to the Trenton
Steel Works at Trenton, Nova Scotia. Those appointed to take charge
of the trip are “Andy” Atkinson,
Dave Jamison and Harlow Fielding. Although the trip is made
available to third year students,
others are invited and those who
are interested in making the voyage should get in contact with the
committee. The topic of the Annual
Boilermakers Ball was brought up
and the date, January 21st, 1949,
was decided upon by the members
present.

 

.9.9. WILL FOSTER

FOREIGN STUDENTS

be oes ne ——— >

Law Defeats Arts-'

_a hectic struggle. Among concrete proposals that came out of
| the conference are a new constitution which gives more stu
Science Debaters

tk %

*

Special from Bernal Sawyer
VARSITY, OCT. 31 (C. U. P.)
The Canadian I. 8. $8. Conference wound up Sunday after

‘dent participation in the executive committee of the organiThe Law Debating Team added | zation relief to the university “according to their needs, re
another victory to their list of wins
by defeating Arts and Science last |
Thursday. The topic was “Resolved
that the Unrest In The World Today Is Due To The Failure Of
Democracy.” The Law II team consisted of J. DeWolfe and N. McKelvy, while the Arts and:Science
IIt team was composed of D. Cross
and B. Brehaut.

Held on Oxford Style lines, the
debate was open to the opinions of |
several people. Among these were

 

Prof. Hancock, who gave a convincing discussion.

This debate also was the occasion ofthe introduction of Public
Speaking Lectures, The lecturer of |

 

the evening was Mr. Grant, one-|
time lecturer at the Junior Board |
of Trade. The next Debate and Lec- |
ture will be held Thursday evening |

at 7.30 in the Law School when |

Arts and Science Il meet Delta}

gardless of political beliefs,

Gazette To
Rejoin CU P

After a four year absence the
Gazette will rejoin Canadian University Press this year. Former
Councils had one or more reasons
for refusing to allow the Gazette
to join, partly because the Councils
themselves were not

present Council, however, has
agreed that the Gazétte should
join.

Before leaving the organization
four years ago, the Gazette was
the first winner of the Bracken
Award. The editors of the Gazette
have got in touch with the National

Gamma I to debate ‘Resolved that President of ©. By e., Richard Mil
the Secrets of the Atomic Bomb |

|

Known to the)!

Should be Made
World Now”.

‘national

ler, now attending Dalhousie Law |

School, and are going to attend the
conference at Christmas.

 


(Gazette Photo By Soberman)

Enjoying an informal chat are M. Saunders, Joyce~Parker, Andy MeKay, Dr. and Mrs, Kerr and Elizabeth Clark.

Dr. and Mrs.

Kerr Hosts

To Freshmen At Tea

by Valerie Cato
The tea, given by the President of the University for all

the new students on Friday

expected.

Having listened to a few pleasant words from Dr. Kerr, each arrival was taken to the dining room
where he was plied with very good
coffee and food. Mrs, Clyde Marshall and Mrs. Theakston poured,
and among those serving were Mrs.
Murray, Mrs. Lambertson, Mrs.
Eaton, Mrs. Mowat, Mrs. Gosse,
Mrs. Steeves and Mrs. Wilde.

The air of informality was due
chiefly to Miss Mowat, who bustled

evening, turned out to be a

friendly gathering, instead of the formal affair that one

from group to group, getting each
circle to introduce themselves to
the other. Credit is also due to
John R. MacDonald who played the
piano for the sing-song which concluded a most enjoyable evening.

About sixty guests arrived, and
almost all stayed for the whole
evening, A generous supply of cigarettes kept the smokers happy,
and the New Look freshettes were
very easy on the male eyes.

members of.
N. F. C. U. S., the parent body. The |

 

 

race or religion.”
cat

As special projects the conference picked out four universities
badly in need of assistance. These
were the Universities of Bombay,
Paris, Greece and Hungary. It was
further suggested that any University wishing to adopt a special
project may do so from among the
above four.

Other proposals adopteed by the
conference was the adoption of the
European seminar plan similar to
that of last year, which would
bring DP students to Canadian universities and award scholarships to
foreign students, who would return
to their countries after a year’s
study in Canada.

This system would affect in its

|entirety order or priority students,

DP students and relief students.

Bernal Sawyer, Dalhousie re
| presentative, proposed that the I.

S. S., being the only existing international student organization, become the governing international
student organization, to replace the
outlawed I. U. S.

The Conference ended with a
feeling of optimism as to the successful accomplishment of the convention, and with a feeling that
I. S. S. would ultimately become
the official organ of each and
every student throughout the world.

Annual Gambol
Friday Night

The Dalhousie Gazette will once
again play host to the student body
at their annual Gazette Gambol to
be held in the Gym on Friday evening at 9 p.m,

The idea of the Gambol originated three years ago and proved
such a success that it was incorporated into student extra-curricular social activity as an annual affair,

As the name implies the dance is
sponsored by the Gazette staff,
with this year’s do under the management of Jack Lusher, Bob McDougall and Robin MacLean.

A large crowd is expected to turn
out for the great social event of
the year.

Band To Play
At Next Game

“Because our key men were
either out of town or laid up with
colds we were unable to field a
brass band for Saturday’s game,”
This was the reason quoted by the
band manager, Lester Page, when
approached for an explanation. He
further explained that it was not
lack of college spirit or unwillingness on the part of the band that
prevented them from attending the
game, but the reasons quoted above
and none other.

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 
   

[
i
|

  
 

| ~—_— eandidates, complete with  sing| __- Songs, musie and yells,

a ne eee _ —— —

pases Sag a, x
A rw hs bere
" y

4 ee Aa. : i:
ie are, it

i

| CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION
i. * * * * *

Be Editors-in-Chief

J. D. LUSHER A. MOREIRA
_ Managing Editor | Business Manager
BRUCE LOCKWOOD ROBIN MACLEAN

* x 3% BS *

ny IN CHARGE OF THIS ISSUE

| Features

MARJ GOLBURGH

Sports
BOB McQUINN

News
RED LAMPERT
BRUCE LOCKWOOD
Reporters:—Barbara McGeough, Dorothy Saffron,
F P. Simon, D. Soberman

Photographers:—Eric Richter, Dan Soberman
Assistant Business Manager:—Alfred Harris

Printed by McCurdy Print, $4 Argyle St., Halifax, N. S.

<>

Vol. LXXXI

 

November 2, 1948 No, 10

 

WHAT PRICE LEARNING

In a recent issue of “Saturday Night’ an article deals
out some well-earned criticism to Canadian Universities. Discussing a book by Provost Seeley of Toronto’s Trinity College
the article mentions the “narrow, commercial approach to
learning” so much in evidnece in Canadian universities. While
it blames nobody for this, the article reminds” universities
that it is time for an assessment.

It is quite true that this criticism touches home. Nobody
who knows anything about it will deny that the Canadian
Pass B. A. is hardly worth the paper it is printed on insofar
as representing its holder as an educated man of letters is
concerned. One continually hears how a Canadian M, A., who
has gone to Oxford or Cambridge, finds himself placed in the
third undergraduate year. Less and less attention is devoted
in our universities to the liberal arts, and more and more to
money-making. Accounting has displaced the Classics.

It is one thing to point this out; it is another to blame it
on the Universities. Our institutions of learning depend much
more upon public support than most people realize. A man
who has made a “success” of his life due to an intricate
knowledge of the hardware market might consider the study

of Latin an academic waste of time. If it were suggested that

education was not inextricably bound up with the making of
money, many such men would think education ridiculous. The
significance of philosophy escapes them entirely.

The scholarly tradition of the University is going by the
board, and our graduating students are assessed on their dollar value and very little more. They are not expected to have
an outlook ripened by the experience of centuries, but a capasine for replacing some cog in our industrial or social machine.

Speaking in Toronto last week, Dr. Seeley stressed the
necessity for broader teaching than the pure mechanics of
some field. Because of comparative security from outside
pressures, the University is an ideal place for the search for
the Truth, Dr. Seeley stated. He went on to say that it had
impartiality; the ability to discriminate between truth and
falsehood, integrity in a world where everybody has an axe
to grind and moral courage.

But the trouble is that these qualifications—certainly
among the things a University should offer—in this country
are what they have not, or have not altogether. The Universities are compelled to attend more and more to the making
of money, and less and less to the development of minds. The
commercialism of the curricula is the result of the outside
pressure from which Universities are supposed to be immune.
It is with outside pressures that the writer of the article in
‘Saturday Night” must quarrel.

Or must we blame the Universities for succumbling to
outside pressure?

| Letters To The Editors |

Dear Sir: Second, the Progressive Conser
In Valerie Cato’s article dealing | vative Party did not establish Imwith my report on the National| Perial Oil, I used the Imperoyal
Convention of the Progressive-| Plant as an example of beneficial
Conservative Party I noted two| capital expenditures encouraged in
mis-quotes which I wish to correct. | the Maritimes after the first World
War by the Conservative Government. It still remains to contribute
to our prosperity. The Halifax
Shipyards belong in the same category.

I would appreciate it if you
would publish this in the next issue
of the Gazette.

Yours sincerely,
A. Wiliam Cox
« Pres, Dalhousie P-C Club

 

First, the comparison to “a college pep rally” was specifically limited to the spontaneous and impromptu gathering in the lobby of
the Chateau Laurier after the nomination speeches. This was not a
meeting; it was merely a lively and
spirited get-together of the

a pp! ~

a Post ee st

“Lae

 

Saturday, Oct, 30—Up betimes
and to the Forest, where a friend
of mine did invite me to the conference of the Tories. They there

.| did assemble, and. vowed that they

were all Progressive tories, and
therefore newer and better than
the old tories. Lord William Hen
did speak at great length concerning bigger and better rallies to be
held in the City. To prove that they
were of good faith in being Progressive, suggestions from the back
benches that beer be served were
quashed,

Passing Queen’s did hear great
noises as of an animal in great
pain. Hear later, however, that it
is only a mad scotchman playing
his pipes, which have alarmed the
district and the scholars no little.

Did hear great reports of the
celebration held by old scholars for
the new at the Gym Inn. It seems
that so many were stealing the refreshments that were none when
the time came to drink, and all
were disappointed. However, all
were comforted by the speeches,
which were long and rambling, and
in no sense senile, All who could
spoke, including President Auto.

Sunday, Oct. 31 (Lord’s Day—

To church in Queens, where,
stumbling over reclining scholars
around the door I did perceive
many theologues, who apparently
had debated against the men of
Law, whereat a large free fight
broke out and many had sore heads
the next day. Did hear loud comment on this from dullards at
Wood Hill.

At the sermon I was wroth, for
that the preacher brayed only
about bad habits prevalent in
scholars, and ranted long on this.
I home, before he finished; have no
patience with such nonsense.

Did hear that the Parliament
will meet. Jake Boudrop tells that
politics in the Medicine section off
Cheapside are become oppressive,
and that Prex Hoggins seeks to
control the mob by harsh methods.

Monday, Noy. 1—The week-end
having been full of idiocy over
Hallowe’en, up early and to the
college on the Hill where things
are very quiet. I did hear that the
Ball at the Lady Hamilton Palace
did not earn a Party of the Parliament much in party funds, but
little, at which they were most dis
  

New Pens

A new pen is a faithful

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dal Students-
A welcome awaits you at

friend when taking notes.

Drop in to see the new
models on display at

Birk’s.
Sheaffer, Waterman
Parker.

HENRY BIRKS &

SONS LIMITED

456 Barrington St.

Where you will find a

and the finest

Registered Jeweller, American

Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

Sports Equipment.

»

“Heat Merchants Since 18385”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

COAL — COKE — FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
Installed and Serviced

HALIFAX, N, S.

THE NOVA SCOTIA
TECHNICAL COLLEGE

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

Offers Degree Courses In
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, MINING,
CHEMICAL AND METALLURGICAL

Ten scholarships and thirty bursaries of $150 are offered to

Nova Scotia students holding Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructional Staff with Individual Experience

APPLY

ALAN E, CAMERON, PRESIDENT

FOR CALENDAR

 

 

Attractively set up departments

Featuring—

Willis Piano Co. Limited

® BOOKS

@ MUSIC

@® RECORDS

@® PIANOS

® ELECTRIC APPLIANCES

127 Granville St. (at Duke),
HALIFAX, N.S.

 

f Always call on Schelew

 
  

And when he does the
You'll always find

é Is of the finest kind

Call at

DON SCHELEW’S

Scientific and Odorless Dry Cleaning

appointed and claimed that there| pjant: 40 Morris Street

must be some more somewhere. Ah,
how money doth fly in politics.

Did read the Spectator ‘(early
edition) and did see long words on
how our scholars learn naught but
how they may make money This
seems most appropriate to me;
what else they would do I know
not. For money is hard come by. I
did hear that one ingenious scholar
did deposit some few shillings with
a Goldsmith, and went and bought
goods on the note of the Goldsmith. Then he hurried back and
withdrew his money, and had both
goods and money. Without education at University, how would he
have thought of this?

 

   
 
   
     
  
 

 
  

A Complete
PHOTOGRAPHIC
SERVICE... 4

SUPPLIES
EQUIPMENT
REPAIRS
ASSISTANCE

the
CAMERA SHOP
of the Maritimes Ltd.
BLOWERS ST. — 3-8524

 

phe! F Apa ela a

D

Dalhous

 

When it comes to cleaning clothes

You’ll find the difference in his work
Very quickly shows

That Schelew’s cleaning and pressing

OD ecerieieieiiailiniaieclca a

 

  
   
    
 
 

work for you

Branch Store:

LAL 38-8423

te Gnibersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, and Laboratories in the Maritimes

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

Degrees of:

Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce ;
Bachelor of Musici Music
Bachelor of Education Pharmacy

Master of Arts
Master of Science

Hospital Pharmacy
Mining Geology

Pre-Professional Courses
Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

Inclusive Fees in the B.A. Course average about $186.00 a year

in the B.Se. Course, about $236.00 a year

Twenty-four entrance scholarships, each of a maximum value
of $600.00, available to students selected on basis of record of marks
inn quarterly and final examinations in any Maritime school or

Junior College.

Many other valuable scholarships offered through the courses.

The Professional Faculties
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Women students live in Shirreff Hall—one of the finest Women’s
Residence is provided for first year
Other men students live

Residences in the Dominion

homes,
students.

men in the University Men’
In either of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved
Special accommodation is provided for married ex-service

Residences

s Residence,

Meals for all students are available at ‘the University.

For full information, write to
THE REGISTRAR

complete Music Service

   

i139 Hollis Street

et

 

d
of

1

f/f


 

|
!
q
1
:
  
   

  

4
his

 
 
   

Bes
oD We TH}
wee

au.
We

 

Living to sing.

Of the book
And the end

by Valerie Cato —

Did you ever wonder how many
books there are in the Dal library?
If you-did, I am sure you never
thought there are about 77,000. It
is the largest college library in the
Maritimes, and has books on any
subject your mind could desire. But
unless you ask, you will never
know what there is. Perhaps you
just don’t like to ask, especially
when everyone seems so busy, but
you should rémember that the librarians are there to help you, and
will be only too glad to get you
-what you want, For many students,
the catalogue of books, and its use,
seems to be a mystery, but once
~ Miss Johnson or one of the others

 

 

, GARRICK
THEATRE

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.

THE GREAT WALTZ
starring
Fernand Louise
RAINER

GRAVET
, Milza KORJUS

ADDED ATTRACTION
_ HEADIN’ FOR
HEAVEN

 

 

   

1. | oxeoas
-THEATRE
Tycoon
and
Wallflower

Thurs. - Fri, - Sat.

Fort Apache
7 and

    

Mon. - Tues. 
 
 
    
 
 
 


er ee

Not with a Bang , but a Simper-*

A D. ELLIOT

We are the harrowed men
We are the shallow men
Staying together

Tied with a string, Alas
Our pens are dry

Having written the
Wisdom, applying

The past without

 

has explained it, there is no quick
 
 

fey

Wp
BOT.

 

Ke

os

| Oa,

sd aes a
TH) eee

Sh

  
  

We chatter together
Noisy and meaningless
Like sounding brass.

Between the pages
Between the beginning

Comes the Demand.
FOR THINE IS THE LIGHT.

This is the way that college ends,
This is the way that college ends,
This is the way that college ends,
Not with a bang but a simper.
Nancy Allen

 

er way of finding the books you
want,

Sinee the library is run on the
closed stack system, the majority
of students never see the books be
hind the counter. Miss MacKay, the

librarian, thinks it would be a good
idea if, at the beginning of the
year, all the freshmen could be
taken on a tour of the closed stacks
so that they would get an idea of
the books at their disposal.

The books lining the side opposite the door are reference ones,
and for use in the reading room
only. But those for the different
subjects may be taken out. These
volumes are changed every so often
so that the undergraduates may
have a fair selection to choose
from.

The older students may have
noticed an innovation in the section
“Arm-chair reading.” This was an

 
    
 
  
  
   

FADER’S
PHARMACY
LIMITED

STUDLEY DRUG STORE
29 Coburg Road

FADER’S DRUG STORE
141 Hollis St.

 
 

CASINO
THEATRE

y¥
Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.

Lulu Belle

Dorothy Lamour
George Montgomery
Now Playing

| mace carried at the head of its academic processions. When

 

ei. ee eR pee es ee em
SNe! a a TNR TOR ET: if Page Three

| MACE FOR CONVOCATIONS

 

KNOW YOUR
PROFESSORS

by R. S. Levey

“Senate Formally aioe ee At Academic
Processions Of Mace From Lord Dalhousie

Unlike most old and large Universities Dalhousie had no

the idea occurred to University officials to have one made it
was felt that oak might appropriately come from one of the
trees at the family estate of the Founder, the Earl of Dalhousie. Dr. John Cameron, formerly Professor of Anatomy at
Dalhousie, found some means of communicating the matter
to the present Earl, who was found to be very much in favour

   

 

of the idea. ,

Dr. Cameron visited the Earl and
Lady Dalhousie at Brechin Castle,
who received him very hosiptably.
“T was given such a friendly and
hospitable reception,” said Dr.
Cameron, “that the episode will
haunt my memory centres for a
long time.”

The matter of the heraldry of
the mace was discussed, and it was
decided that the family crest, as it
appears on the University crest,
would be carved on it and gilded.
Dr. Cameron saw the tree from
which the oak had been taken
which would be formed into the
mace, The piece of wood has been
out four months, and will require
maturing before the mace can be
made, It will be sent here soon,

The Earl showed great interest
in the University, and was pleased to get some photographs of
University buildings which Dr.
Bean had taken.

The family of the Earl is one
distinguished in British history.
The founder of the University had
a great deal to do with the building
of Canada. His.son was a Viceroy
of India,

The new Mace may be reday for
the next convocation of the University, but this is not certain, as
the wood may not be ready for
some time.

The University Senate has formally approved the use of the
Mace at academic processions and
future convocations.

Dent Notes

By this time Dents are working
at top speed. The third years are
complaining about pathology, as
usual—“the poor bloody dents.”
(Dr. Smith).

In the fourth year, we find Carl
and Earle Dexter discussing some
big deal. Earle maintains that it is
unnecessary to buy an X-Ray unit
when they set up at Armdale, as
the jaws in that vicinity are so

 

Expansion Seen For Dal Library,
Largest In The Maritimes

idea of Miss Murray, and she hopes
to add to it during the year if
enough attention is given to it.

For those who do not feel like
reading old and musty volumes,
there is a Book-Club on the third
floor. This is not generally known,
but they have quite a wide selection of the latest books in fiction
and non-fiction. All those who wish
to, are invited to go up and look
around.

In the distant future, it is hoped
that there will be more space for
all the boks. In time, the offices
down stairs will be moved, and the
whole building will be occupied by
the library. “But we won’t count on
that until it actually happens,” said
Miss MacKay.

 

CASINO TAXI
Phone 4-1233
Gy

_24 HOUR SERVICE »

128 and 130 Gottingen St.

 

  
   
      
 

  

  

 

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

thin that they are almost transparent. Carl objects to his brother’s
reasoning.

Joe McDonald has resumed operations at the Stork Club (Grace
Maternity).

From the first year we hear of
a Glace Bay dental student who
asked Dr. Maitland what part of
the female anatomy is known as
the “yet.” It seems some woman
got shot down there and Bill says
the bullet is in her yet.

Here is the “effugit” story of the
week. A fourth year student from
Newfoundland, Wilson King by
name, reportedly very proficient at
Exodonia, seated his patient for a
difficult extraction. After displaying about ten questionable instruments before her, the seated one
whose eyes were now slightly enlarged at the procedure of the operation, requested to be excused for
just a minute. Time passed and the
great King on glancing through
the window saw a streak of light
ening alias his patient dart up
Morris St.
“What shall I report on her

card?” he asked the demonstrator.

“Only one word,” replied the latter. “Effugit.”

Sprachlan and MacDonald are
keeping their respective engagements a deep dark’secret, so let’s
keep it under our hats too, eh
Dents?

Time to effugit.

LIKE THE NEW
HAIR DO’S

Your hair needs to be properly
cut, permanent waved and
dressed.

We do them all properly and

distinetly at

HARRIETTES
BEAUTY SHOP

98 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Mills Bldg. — 3-7022

   
   

 

 

Dean Of Medicine

Harry Goudge Grant, M.D., C.M.,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., was born and
educated in Halifax.

He first entered Dalhousie
where he first took one year of
Arts. He next entered the School
of Medicine, from which he graduated with his M.D., C.M. From Dal
he left for England where he received his M.R.C.S. After completing his studies he returned to
Rosebay, Lunenburg County where
he set up a general practice for
five years. Next Dean Grant again
crossed to England, to take post
graduate work in London where he
received his L.R.C.P., on graduation he returned to Halifax in
1920, At this time he was teaching
some classes in Medicine in the T.
B, clinie and in the out patients departments.

From Halifax Dean Grant left
for Alabama to take Rockefeller
Field Station training. Upon completion he worked for seven years
in the Public Health Service for
the state of Virginia.

Dean Grant then returned to Dalhousie in 19382 as Dean of the
School of Medicine.

Dean Grant has three sons and
four grandchildren.

GAUVIN &
GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS
and
BLUE PRINTING

814, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Phone 3-6992

 
   
    
  
  

 
 
 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in
peace; “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

?

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

  
   
 

 

MILOWESS:
COOLNESS
VASTE

    

    

 

    
 
  

 

:

 
 
  
    

 

 

 

Campus Roundup

_by Windy O'Neill

  

University sport in the Maritimes is governed by a body called The
Maritime Intercollegiate Athletic Union. This august group meets twice

yearly to further their individual interests, the main one of which, is,
~ to handeuff Dalhousie, the biggest university and make sure that we

win no championships of any kind, and preferably, no games.
* * * ;

In the intervening months the delegates of the other colleges
steep themselves in constitutions and black magic to devise some
means of putting the screws on our sport effort. It is an annual
rite, part of the opening ceremonies, for the delegate from Archaic
University to arise and demand to know the status of King’s play
ers on Dal teams.
& * *

Last year Dalhousie had the makings of a good college hockey
team and the prospect of a possible Dalhousie hockey championship
terrified the delegates. They knew, of course, that Dal had no rink and
that ice time in Halifax was a precious thing and suitable hours for
students tmpossible. But they saw the danger, and they saw a technicality. .

* % *

Two of the key mep on the team were living at King’s residence and enrolled there but REGISTERED at Dalhousie. Finding
this out, vigorous protests were made which even the MIAU saw
as groundless. They will probably come up with another dandy, on
this matter, at the next meeting,

* * *

Dalhousie has always been blessed with proficient tennis players
and have usually managed to win the tennis championship, which is of
minor importance. Last year UNB had two or three very good players
from the States and wanted to change the competition rules to enable
them to use these players to advantage and copp the laurels. Dalhousie
wouldn’t go for it—UNB wouldn’t play. We won by default. The president of the MIAU is from UNB.

* x Bo

And now for the piece de resistance. To wipe out permanently, the chance of any of the Halifax schools (Dalhousie winning the hockey championship (despite our ice difficulties—the
other universities have or will have rinks of their own) these inviolate men have brought out that ancient vehicle of fuddyduddyism—shamateursim. Shamateur is a derivation of the
French word amateur which means, as anyone who has ever
visited Quebec knows, “lover.” This term is about as obstruse as
the legal “reasonable man”. But get the point, the Halifax teams
are the only ones who will suffer from this rule. Acadia and St.
F.X. can enter their teams en masse in any league. They can even
play against the foul professionals of the APC league and gtill
remain undefiled by filthy green paper which all those connected
with sport should hate and despise. These sterling pillars of virtue
have freed university athletics from these horrid young men who
help pay their way to a college education by playing for an outside team and receiving a stipend for their services. (At this point

loud cheers).

' % * 
It is no secret that the MIAU are sore at Dal for taking up Canadian Football. They dislike anything that smacks‘of progress. We
have something constructive to say to this group. After it is said, they
will all probably shake their celluloid collars, twist the ends of their
handlebar moustaches and exclaim “Right! Why didn’t I think of it?”
Fellows why not be good sports? Why not work together instead of
against each other and stop trying to pull Dalhousie and other colleges
down to your level, elevate yourself to theirs. Then maybe the cham
4L TAKES WIN IN FOURTH

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

LEAGUE GAME

Woodward Scores Three Touchdowns:

 

 

 

Taking advantage of the breaks of the game, and at the
same time generating their own power, the Dal Tigers overwhelmed the hapless Wanderers, 20-2, last Saturday afternoon at the Wanderers’ Grounds. The victory was the collegians’ fourth straight in the Halifax Canadian Football
League and the seeond of the season over the Redmen.

Don Woodward, Dal’s hustling right end, scored three
of the Tiger touchdowns, and was a key man on the defence.
It was Woodward who opened Dal’s touchdown parade in the
opening minutes of play.
ea a ee TS a oe, itn toe Wanderers’ in -possea
, Sion of the ball on their own 20

’ |yard line, Frankie Graves tried a

GIRLS SPORTS ‘lateral pass to John Primrose. But

just after Graves had thrown the
ball, Woodward swooped in, interThey say the naval swimming in- | cepted the lateral on the 19, and
structor, P. O. Crease, is wonder-|ran the remaining distance for the

by NOELLE BARTER

 

ful—I mean, a wonderful swim-| first score of the day. A pass play |

ming instructor. If your interested | for the attempt at the convert was
in the Dal swimming team, he will | incomplete.

Leads Tigers In Decisive Win

pionships will not be so hollow and meaningless.

* BS

*

NOTES: GEORGE DREW the handsomest man in Canadian
politics will speak to the students on the campus Noy. 10. The
PRO-CONSERVATIVE club are to be congratulated on the calibre
of the speakers they are bringing to the campus.

 

Commerce, Arts and Science
Cop Interfac Rugger Games

In the second game of the Inter-| Smith, Robinson, Fancy, MacDou
Faculty Rugby League, the luckless Engineers went down to defeat for the second time to the
hands of a hard-fighting young
Commerce team 9-(). Played in
pouring rain, the Commerce team
showed the fight that has always
been the feature of all Commerce
Inter-faculty teams. It was the
lightning fast Chic Fancy who
started things rolling with his fine
broken field running. He scored
the first try in the first half on a
long run along the line.

The second half saw the Commerce team again pressing with
diminutive “Arpy” Robinson crossing the line after a determined
drive featured by the hard tackling
and aggressiveness of Jim Cox,
Commerce scored again in the latter half to make the final score of
9-0, It was freshmen Harley Frowd
who made the try. Johnny Bowes,
picking quarter for Commerce,
also played a fine game.

For the Engineers Smith, Crouse
and Stewart showed up well.
Commerce

Cox, Horne, McCullough, Bowes,

jt a Rn See

gal, Frowd.
Engineers

Adamson, Waller, Otto, Crouse,
Stewart, Smith, R. Crouse, Patterson, Harris.

Referee—Don Kerr.

Led by Scott Henderson, the Arts
and Science inter-faculty rugby
squad defeated the Engineers at
Kings in an overtime fixture,
Henderson scored the first try for
his team in the first half only to
have the fighting Engineers come
back strongly to tie the score before half time.

The second half produced no
scoring so the game went into
overtime. It was Henderson again
who broke the deadlock when he
accepted a beautiful pass from
Dave MeCurdy to cross the line to
give his team a 6-3 victory.

Lineups: Arts and Science:—lIan
Henderson, Kerr, Foster, Bloomer,
Hyrnyshyn, Scott Henderson, Polous, Campbell, Becklett, McCurdy.

Engineers: — Stewart, Harris,
Crouse, Smith, Otto Patterson, Art
Crouse, Cromm, Waller, Fergusson.

be at Stad- every Monday between
5.30 and 6.30. The time is largely
spent on team. work and instructions for bettering your swimming.
Remember last year? The girls
swimming team brought back the
Maritime Intercollegiate title —
Why not again?

Jan Robertson, your badminton
manager, has drawn up a schedule
for individual competition. It has
been posted in the girls locker
room—so, if you have given Jan
your name, dash over and see who
your opposition is. The matches
may be played any time during the
day. Let’s get them started ’cause
it'll be interesting to know the
winner.

Congratulations Freshettes —
See where you won your first interclass basketball game — with the
sophomores. The teams look promising and there should be some
real razzle-dazzle games during
the year.

Instruction in basketball is to
begin this Friday—If you’re interested, come oi over to the gym at
4.30 and then you'll want to come
every Friday.

Don’t forget the ground hockey
game at Acadia this Saturday. Undoubtedly Acadia will show the
team thier famous hospitality —
“known of old”. Incidentally, grand
that the English Rugby team won
their protest, wasn’t it?

 

Notice

All members of the -D.A.A.C.
wishing to play hockey for teams
other than those sponsored by the
University must first make application to the President of the
D.A.A.C., Bob Knickle in order to
secure their temporary. release
from the club,

Toward the close of the opening |
quarter, Dal scored again, and another break was what helped the
Tigers to get rolling. Bill Peterson recovered a Redman fumble on
the Wanderers 40 yard line, and
from there Dal marched to its second touchdown, Bod Wilson passed
to Woodward for a first down on
the 21. Wilson, after picking up
two yards on a plunge, broke loose
to the 4, from where he passed to
Woodward in the end zone for the
second Dal score. George Mattison’s attempt at the convert was
blocked.

In the third period the Tigers
notched their last two touchdowns
of the game. After the losers had

EARN
LARGE PROFITS

between now and Christmas
taking orders for large line of
books and bibles. Every home
a prospect. Part of commissions paid daily. Write quickly
for details. Dominion Book and
Bible House, 60 Front St. West
Toronto, Ontario.

 

   
  

 
  

Meet your friends at
THE

Riviera Tea Room
85 Spring Garden Road

LOLOL

“DANCING

SATURDAY

 

scored their second rouge of the
day, the victors marched 85 yards
for a tally. Don Harrison’s running
and the passing and plunging of
Wilson were the dominant factors
in bringing the ball to the Wanderers’ 39. Three, on third down,
Murray Mulloy passed to Pete
MacDonald for a first down on the
29. When it was ruled that the pass
had earned a first down, three of
the Redmen protested so vigorously that they were penalized for
three minutes, an dthe city club
had to play for that time with only
nine men. With the Wanderers
short, Harrison passed to Woodward on the 17, and Mulloy took a
hand-off from Paul Lee to score
the third five pointer. Mattison
again failed to convert.

The final Dal score came a few
minutes later when Wilson again
passed to Woodward in the end
zone for the tally. This play was
fro mthe Wadnerers‘ 11 yard line,
and was the climax of a 43 yard
march that began when Spence
Stuart intercepted Ralph Maskill’s
pass,

The two points garnered by the
losers were the result of rouges.
30th times it was Primrose who
kicked into the Dal end zone for
the single points, once in the second period, and again in the third.

The individual star of the game
was Woodward with his brilliant
pass catching and tackling. Bob
Wilson and Don Harrison were
particularly noticeable, as were
Pete MacDonald and Pete Mingo.
The standouts for the losers were
Graves and Primrose.

 

Lose To Truro

| A Dalhousie second English rug| ger-team made up of men who had
| turned out for practice but failed
| to make the senior team went to
Truro last Saturday to play the

| Town of Truro team, operating for

| the first time this year.

This was the first game the second team had played, so it is not
surprising that they lost to the experienced Truro players 8-0. Topshee starred for Truro.

BAND TO PLAY

(Continued from page 1)

Les Page went on to say that the
band will meet at the Gym Wednesday at 12:45 and from there
will march to the Wanderers
Grounds where they will lend their
support to Dal in their game
against Air Station.

Give a

MACASKILL
PICTURE

MACASKILL’S

475 Barrington St.

STUDENTS

If you are planning a frat

or class party, you need the
best in music.

For the best in Halifax call
4-4450

FRED COVEY

944, ALLEN ST.

Currently playing the Nova
Scotian Hotel supper dances

 
