Vol. LIV.

 

The Dalbousie Gazette

Founded 1869

Issued Weekly - - - - One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - - « « J, GORDON FOGO
Associate Editors

Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean

Miss Juanita O’Connor OD. C. oun
R. F. Callan M. M. Me
H, A. Creighton, B.A R. R. Dalgleish
Cassidy
Sports Editor - - « » « H. E. Read, B. A.
Special noe
A. C. Milner D. R. Webster, B.A.
A. Chester Smith
Staff Artists
Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie

BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
129 Spring Garden Road

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable to the Business Manager.

,
EDITORIAL

The first football match played on the
improved campus demonstrated much
- more clearly than words what Dalhousie
has gained through the activity of some
gentlemen who ,take an interest in our
welfare. Two, in particular, are worthy
of the sincere gratitude of the students
for their splendid efforts on our behalf;
we refer to Messrs. H. C. Theakston and
EK. P. Wainwright, who spared neither
time nor energy in order that the whole
und ens d be a success. The
seoniney the game were most satisfactory, so much so that some financial

mt minds are that before
y years the credit newanes from

8 will rtions.

  
  
   
  
  
    

aa
Hi NUY
‘Or Wi cae
i

june

the Gandy ani Margaret

Che Dalhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. 8., OCTOBER 25, 1922

port the team, and that you have an
opportunity to share the honors of the
victory.

 

Annually the Gazette staff has to
deal with some knotty problems and not
the least important of these is the financial one. This year is no exception.
Preparations are being made to publish
twenty issues during the session, which
means a heavy financial strain, and in
consequence we have been compelled to
increase not only the advertising but
also the rates. Now is the time for the
readers of the Gazette—the students
and their friends—to show their appreciation of the efforts of the people who
have made the paper possible. Patronize Them, Look through the columns
and see the names of the firms who support your paper; a visit to their establishments will convince you that they
are in a position to supply all your
wants, and will be very pleased to do so.
Their work is of good quality and their
prices reasonable. Give them a trial
and you won’t regret it. Help yourself and help the Gazette by giving them
your trade.

 

We are always pleased to get new
subscriptions. The subscription price
for people who are not in attendance at
the University is one dollar per year.
Every dollar counts. Do you know anyone who would like to subscribe, or
have you a friend to whom you would
like to send a copy ? If so, send in the
name, or send us the dollar and the ad
dress.

 

POPULAR PHYSICS

Advanced work in Physics is more
S ite than ever this year. Good use

Oe ee eae
the noe Demarini [y erate

er and oe

a it Marea work are:
W Js P  aikaow M. A., re

“Butler, W

eee en

ret M ~

 

No. 15

 

Council of of the Students

The semi-annual meeting of the
Council was held on the evening of October the seventeenth.

Student finances were responsible
for much argument and very considerable action. Budgets of the several college societies under Council control were
read. In spite of this year’s seven dollar student fee it appeared that the total
of the amounts requested was so far in
excess of the credit available that only
sixty per cent of the amounts called for
by each budget could be granted this
year, with the exception of the various
women’s organiations.

Grants were made as follows:

Be Me MA bs bd cba eRea aa ees $2280
rk cee Sidck cxKER AEB ES 1020
EGR ep ean ebah Ae i 210
CE ME sctcasc's xo 0'u ERAS 6 4 OR RR KS 240

ETE Le bncih'y'p bo b4 ab. CER OL RO 125
Skating COE cacy div kdne eee keen 420

TN i a a a $4295

Further grants will be made if receipts warrant, but heavy emphasis was
laid upon the necessity for economy in
student expenditure.

Prof. M. MeNeill and Mr. Pyke, reprepresenting the Advisory Committee
at the allocation, withdrew from the
meeting at the conclusion of the financial discussion.

Several matters of minor import‘ance were dealt with and at 10.30 p. m.
the meeting adjourned.

ARTS AND SCIENCE.

A meeting of Arts and Science was
held on Oct. 17th, Although the attendance was not large, some interesting
matters were considered. Mr. Thomp- —
son, the President, stressed the need of ©
having the long-forgotten constitution
of the society once more brought to
light, and a committee was formed to go
it and submit alterations, if neces
"The need of an Arts and Science
song was felt to be great, and it was reoer to offer a prize of $2.00 for the

submitted. A rize of $1.00
vl so ven for the | yaa

 
   
   
 
 

   
 
 

.
‘
- 7 :
‘ >

Making “Dry Bones Live”

New Work on Anatomy by Professor
Cameron of This Unwersity.

 

 

Professor Cameron, of the Campbell
Memorial Chair of Anatomy at Dalhousie University, hag just published
‘‘A Students’ Manual of Osteology and
Arthrology,’’ which, being interpreted,
means a book on bones and joints.

It is in reality volume two of an anatomical text-book, for, some years ago,

Dr. Cameron published a hand book of

descriptive anatomy which his students
found most valuable. The fact is the
standard text-books of anatomy have attained to such a size that serious demands are made on the pocket to procure one and on the brain to retain what

‘is in one. Certain systematic anatomists

have written in such detail that their
descriptions go far beyond the needs of
the ordinary medical student. Prof.
Cameron has taken the trouble to compile a text-book on bones and joints
which contains no unimportant details
and is splendidly illustrated by drawings
of his own making. These are clearness itself, such as a diagram as that of
the nasal chambers on p. 131 is a model
of what a diagram should be. The diagrams have been very well reproduced
by the Art Engraving Company of Haliwho are duly thanked in the preface.
The book includes an account of the
structure of the teeth. The description
of the mechanisms of the joints is one of
the best the reviewer has seen anywhere.
To the uninitiated, no topic would appear
drier or more repellent than the system
- atic description of bones, and yet it is no

exaggeration to say that in this work

Prof, Cameron has made ‘‘these dry.

bones live.’’

IN ENGLISH LANES
Whene’er at Fancy’s whim [ stray

 

Back thro’ the years on Memory’s way, fign

In English lanes I tarry long,
Enraptured by the Spring-bird’s song
That comes with April’s azure skies
When dew-kissed violets ope their eyes
At Pan’s low call.

_ I pluck a snowdrop from the h

By leaping brook, or meadow
rag en daffodils delight—
As do the moonbeams

's
in the night
Taam wetody ly onl

‘o steal away, or else entrance,
A maiden’s heart.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

“PERSONALS

Mr. Donald G. MacGregor, B. A.
(Dal.), B. Se. (Oxon.), Dalhousie
Rhodes Scholar for 1917, who took high
honors in Natural Science both at his
Alma Mater and.at Oxford, has received the appointment as Professor of
Physics at Mount Allison University.

Mr. Norman MacLeod Rogers, B: A.
(Acad.), B. A., B. Litt., B. C. L. (Oxon.)
who was a student at Dalhousie Law
School during the year 1917-18, is the
newly appointed Professor of History
at Acadia. Mr. Rogers, who! was a

Rhodes Scholar from Acadia, is a. |

brother of Arthur Rogers, Law ’21, and
served in the ©. EH. F. until severely
wounded.
Dalhousians are glad to hear that
Mr. Arthur W. Rogers, B. A., LL. B.,
has been admitted to the Bar of Ontario. ‘‘Art’’ was a popular member
of the 1921 class in Law and is now on
the staff of the Attorney General for
Ontario. He was admitted to the Nova
Scotia Bar one afternoon in June 1921,
and married a charming Halifax young
lady the some evening. He is a graduate
in Arts from Acadia, and had a distinguished record in the Great War, winning the Military Cross. :

Rod. M. Richardson, B. A., former |

editor of the Gazette is continuing his
career at McGill University. In a letter received from him recently ‘‘Rod”’
mentions the numerous ex-Dalhousians
who are in engineering at that university, he ‘has around him many of his
classmates of former years in Halifax.
Among those mentioned are H. G. Maxwell, B. Sc,, E. M. O’Brien, J. Wickwire,
G. G. Burris, Lloyd Munro, M. A.. J. R.

Kaye, A. D. Kent, E. Parker Duchemin,
B. A

Percy L. Parlee, B. A. (King’s) who
attended classes in Law at Dal last
term has been appointed assistant professor of philosophy at King’s.

One of the graduates of 1922, L. D.
Currie, B. A. (St. F. X.) LL. D. (Dal.)
red prominently in the industrial
turmoil in Cape Breton during the past
summer. Mr. Currie was the representative of the miners on the Osborne conciliation ig ‘appointed to arbitrate

the ute het the ]
liers and their employers.
SUG ser a
tinder the

   
     
  

   
  

iv ie

4"
, oe ¢ tT
+ sa

. ey + . Final

ih
J

 
 
 
 

ett:

  

   

 

LIMITED

    
 

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
123 YOUNG STREET

| HATS —— BAGGAGE
| - MEN’S FURNISHINGS

4 a es 2) |} eee err President
GARNET J... COM koi cs ce cccccccssceve Vice-President
EEE (Fs CRPRIPPMIMS 6h sh Sb cc chotccveccdcdeedgeaad Director
CYRIL. Fi CORWMiile 0: dsawinacdd Secretary-Treasurer

  
  
   

  
      
 
  

   
   
   
 

R. J. LEARY
THE CLEANER
Cor. Argyle and Sackville Sts.
mite Raa oaks Balers

Each ticket entitles you to have a Suit or
Overcoat Sponged and Pressed.

Our Regular Rate is 75c a Suit.

WE ALSO DO DYEING, DRY-CLEANING,
REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.

Phone Sack. 2054

STUDENTS!
YOU CAN SAVE 20% on your NOTE
BOOKS and SUPPLIES at our Store.

WE are pleased to announce that we are in

a position to fill your requirements.
Having stocked a complete line of BOUND
and LOOSE LEAF NOTE BOOKS of all
kinds, also exceptional values in STUDENTS’ |
supplies, and you can make a considerable
saving by visiting our store.

Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd.

160 GRANVILLE STREET, - HALIFAX

  

Your Education|

is not complete if confined to
printed books and lectures.

 

gs : * 9s j ] ,
= = py, * oo ee ee ee Fis mod Pi
po phatdy) ft Aan ‘Te

+ a Z% i: v4 eet eae 2: ey i y i

| Colwell Brothers |

 

      
       
       
     
   

Pine Hill Post

 

“Bid me discourse; I will enchant

thine ear.’”’

Another week has passed at Pine

Hill and George Smith has not been in a
night yet. Murray Britton is still a Bolshevist, and Dalgleish hasn’t given up
trying to get a glass of milk for nothing.

_ Of course it is not our place to sit in
judgment on our friends but we feel that
a note of warning should be sounded to
some in this residence, like Morris Kirn,
who has violated Dr. Kent’s seventh
point, been called twice to the telephone
and spent Sunday in jail. Also Kenny
Beaton, who was third down to breakfast one day last week. If this happens
again he will have to be referred to the
House-Doctor.

Preparations for the game and burlesque went on briskly all week.  Almost any hour one or two of the Highlanders could have been found in the

park or the Marlborough woods tuning

their pipes and combing their sporans.
We understand that the band, under the
leadership of Howard Hamilton, is to
become a permanent institution at Pine
Hill, to be called out on all auspicious
occasions, including the coronation of
the Pope.

On Tuesday evening the veteran promoters, Tass.: Langwith and Guy MceGregor, presented their gigantic tournament. The ringside seats, which were

‘offered for sale two weeks ago, were

snapped up immediately. Long before.
the scheduled time the Arena was crowded. While waiting for the gong, J. D.
N., respondent with a new haircut; entertained the spectators in true Cape Breton style.

The preliminary bout, between Kid
McCuish and Balaam Huckvale, was

fought to a _ no-decision although

McCuish claimed a knockout. Then the
main bout between Slugger Grant and
Battling McCurdy was called. The first
round was won by Grant on points, the
second by McCurdy and the: last by
Grant. Left hooks and haymakers kept
the crowd in wild excitement. Once McOurdy forced Grant to the ropes with
his superior weight, but soon the skill
of the South Shore scrapper, together
| his_terrifie punches, turned the

     

well managed

   
 

ghout and much credit is due the.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

soon. Perry Knox, who. was also injured, went to the hospital Tuesday night
to get his head dressed and found life
over there so congenial that he decided

to stay.:

Dal. Musical Review
Record Attendance at First Session
of Glee Club.

The first meeting o fthe Dalhousie
Glee Club for the session 1922-23 established a record for attendance and enthusiasm. Not only was the Munro
Room filled to the doors, but many stood
in the corridors during the meeting. If
this is any indication of the requirements of this club, the suggestion that
future meetings be held in the new gymnasium is not out of order. The president, Mr. Carl Bethune, who oecupied
the chair, introduced the chief business
of the meeting, making a short address
in which he outlined the plans for a
Dalhousie musical revue to be staged at
the Majestic Theatre under the direction
of Mr. J. F. O’Connell. A request was
made that any students with previous
experience in this line, or those having
histrionie ability though inexperienced,
hand their names to the secretary of the
club. This, it- was decided, was the only
way in which players could be satisfactorily obtained. The students are very
enthusiastic about the idea. At the completion of the business meeting, all
joined in a hearty sing-song which made
the Forrest building tremble; then, a
few minutes dancing, and the meeting
was over. During the evening Miss
Carol Hawkins was elected vice-president of the club. jive

Action will propel you far; with idle |
-words you need a ¢ar. wh

‘

MEN’S RESIDENCE
There are still a few good
oom ilable By annie
Rate: $8. r week. Applicaton should be msde® immedi. &
loc ts aya te tow: |
or to an i 0 , -2
ing members of the Residence
Committees: fossa
House Committee _ |
io - DeWolt
G. R. Forbes.

 
  

University
The chief excitement at University
Hall during the past two weeks was
caused by the first football game of the
season. The boys at the Hall are particularly interested in the team, as the
captain, the two managers and several
of the team live here.

And then, of course, the idea of the
burlesque game originated here. Messrs.
Oameron, Barnhill and Gushue are to be
congratulated on their fine work.
Strange to say, there was a casualty in
the burlesque game. Like many an accident, it was not known about until after
the game. The gentleman of the hard
hat, who was handling the heavy artillery, was the victim. It was discovered
late in the evening that he was still half
shot, one barrel being loaded.

When Monday’s Echo appeared,
Kiddie (the one who shakes a wicked cue),
was greatly upset. He is very desirous
of knowing the identity of ‘‘The Girl on
the Bleachers.’’ Eddie has a hunch that
she comes from home, or she wouldn’t
have known how to spell his name.

Turning to a more serious phase of
life, it is necessary to note the departure
of ‘‘Spud’’ Ellis and Carl Dexter from
the residence. ‘‘Spud’’ has gone to
Washington, intending to carry on at the
American capital. ‘‘Deck’’ will be
greatly missed.

Albout a week ago, Messrs.’ A. S.
Barnstead and P. Moriarity visited the
residence with a view of obtaining members for the ‘‘Y’’, Several of the boys
have taken advantage of the special student’s offer. This offer carries with it
full privileges during the college term,
and is well worth the five dollars.

One of the greatest attractions in the
nature of exercise that the residence
offers, is the shell. Dr. Cameron and
various crews have made several cruises
this term. Anyone who desires to go
out should mention iit to Dr, Cameron.

Play has now commenced on the first
billiard tournament, and the names of
many newcomers are seen on the list. It
is rumored that Henry has brought up
several dark horses from Yarmouth.
Now Henry, you be careful,

Now that the dancing fever is in the
air, it seems the proper time to broach
the subject of Hall dances. Last year,
as everyone knows, they were a huge
su . But there were only two.

3 There is a general feeling that three is

about the t number, one before
Christmas and two after. ‘Of the col
lege dances held last season, the second
| ae yet
- Some of you fel

dale was the gayest
le of all. How about it?
who shove a slip-_
think it over,

  
  

 
  
 

 

‘i
it: 7 4

; Ty bs
: Th Ps ?. , | ie
t wy *
'

i
. : ? is ;

Ree 4. a 7 Ses. be ‘

* < a \ =" 4 m
i ce ey eg Pei

4) fia
Pe ies. eae

   
 
 

            
 
 

   
  

  
       
 
   
    

 
   
 

as

    
  
  
  

~

DELTA GAMMA INITIATION

The freshettes may be compared to
March—they came in like hons—but
thanks to the Sophs, they went out like
lambs.

Delta Gamnia, in the titne-honored
customs of Dalhowsie’s girls: met the
freshettes on Saturday night, October
14th, the president, Miss Alice Hunter,
in the chair. She greeted the newcomers
and in a businesslike way, informed
them of the rules of the college, concerning doors, mirrors, powder and pufis—
whether or not her words had their ef‘fect, tle future only will tell. Woe betide those who have not taken the rules
to heart.

' The Freshettes, assured by those remarks of the President that they had not
come to the meeting on a fool’s errand,
but that they had been expected, took a
suggestion and left the room in a body—
only to enter it again under very different conditions. The Sophs saw and conquered.,

After the ceremonies of entering
Delta Gamma had been carried thru and
all the Freshettes had had their orders
regarding Monday’s classes, the proper
class girls served ice cream and cake
and then all enjoyed a jolly dance together.

Initiation had come and gone, leaving, it is hoped, no hard hearts nor yet
impertinent spirits.

Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd.
Changed from
Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.

TWO STORES ——
26 Spring Garden Road
119 Young Street

GENERAL DRY GOODS
READY TO WEAR

AILLINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING.
Correct Styles, Lowest Prices.

       

 

 
   
   
     
     
 
   

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   
   
  

CORRESPONDENCE

(The Gazette accepts no responstbility for views expressed m this
column

Correspondents are requested not
to. exceed three hundred words.)

  

To the Editor Dalhousie Gazette:

Sir,—I understand that one Roe McKenna is to be a candidate at the forthcoming election of members for the new
Mock Parliament of Dalhousie University and deem it advisable that the electorate should be informed as to the type
of candidate McKenna represents.

It is well known that at the 1921-22
session of the House, McKenna deserted
his party on condition that he should receive the portfolio of Minister of Justice
in the then newly formed Progressive
party, and in addition the sum of $10,000
cash, which he accepted at the beginning
of the session referred to.

He will no doubt receive the support
of all the bootleggers of his constituency,
as it is common knowledge that during
his term of office as Magistrate there
were no convictions under the Liquor
Laws of the Province.

Surely the electorate of this county
are not going to permit such a type of
candidate to be elected by the class to
whom ha caters. While McKenna is
still at large the Devil is minus his ablest
lieutenant.

In times like the present, Mr. Editor,
it is meet that the people should consider
carefully who are to represent them in
the Parliaments of the country and not

' rush madly to the polls to elect candi
dates of this type.

Trusting that this will meet with the
approval of the electorate and in order
that they may be warned before it is too
late, I would ask you to give this letter a
prominent position in the columns of
your worthy paper.

Yours for clean Elections.
dedi | X RA

 

FRESHIE-SOPH DEBATE

In the ae eee last vane
day evening the omore as
proved too strong for the verdant
Freshmen representatives and were

_ decisively victorious in a debate on the —

question ‘‘Resolved that a dirty, goodnatured wife is better than a clean

~ bad-natured wife.’’ T the question was one which Id have been

7

coed tudes of the onveriy,

but fair to state that the debate was a ff} |

|
ta

 

ney reer nanan eee ene SDT

was in good voice and, quoting freely
from Addison and other authorities,
presented a strong case for the dirty
but sweet-tempered wife. Gordon
Graham, possessed of a good stage ap:=
pearance and a rich round voice, impressed his auditors more favourably,
it would appear, than the judges. He
is a coming speaker. Miss Landon, in
the best speech of the evening, supported Mr. Mowat and did exceptionally
well. Her arguments were good and
had a very favourable effect. Miss McNeil followed for the Freshmen and was
tendered a feeling ovation by her classmates. She was a trifle nervous, but
soon became master of the situation. The
rebuttals were good.

An interesting and valuable critique
was given by J. R. Nicholson of Law.
An unanimous decision for the Affirmative was given by the judges, Miss
Olive Atlee, Miss Amy MacKeen, intercollegiate debaters for Dalhousie, and
Claude §. Richardson, of the Law
School.

Your Future ?

Some day, perhaps to-morrow, you will need money.

 

If you have not saved what
will you do?

If you have been wise and
have saved the future will
not worry you.

The easiest, quickest and
most satisfactory way to
obtain money is to save it.

Save from your allowance
how, make regular deposits
in the Bank and financing
your needs will be the least
of your worries later on in
life.

ROYAL BANK

ee

  
 
 

 
   

; 5

A ie wy gl athe J
e) A hey tat f J
ay Teel

. = =
4 i NE
Dh | eyo leat ies
ws > So eee, q*
} Fey pe it eS a
=p,
re a = = te

OF CANADA |

 

ee oeell

Medical Notes
Remarks to the New Men.

To the first year men, to the uninitiated, in short to those who have not yet
made the acquaintance of Clyde Holland’s building, Mark Twain’s steam
boat or Joe MelInnis’ horse, I address
these few remarks:

The Senior Medical students have
not turned out in a body to man handle
you, to clip your hair or to roll you down
the terrace and nevertheless you are
welcome.

By this time you have made the acquaintance of the professors but perhaps you have not yet recognized the
celebrities of the Medical school. A
brief ‘‘who’s who’’ may help you.
Dinty Moore, captain of the football
team and president of the Medical So
 

ciety first attracts your attention. His
exploits are so famous that I will not insult your intelligence by going into details. Murray Britton, president of the
D. A. A. C., can not be passed lightly by.
He holds the distinction of having introduced a high order of comedy into D. A.
A. C. meetings besides having performed prodigies of valor on the football
field. You must not overlook Bob Kenney, our famous moose hunter, or Charlie Baxter the football manager. His
specialty seems to be the doing of jobs
with plenty of work and no thanks.
Perhaps he is looking forward to a future life. While speaking of work let
me mention Ted Coster, secretary of the

D. A. A.C. In that position he has be-:

come indispensible. You already know
of his athletic standing. Henry DeWolfe, the well known anarchist, should
claim some of your attention, likewise
Bill Colwell, our young Lochinvar, and
last of all our oldest living inhabitant
should command your reverence and respect. In the dim past before the war
Clyde Wallace Holland won an enviable
reputation as a decorator, and justly so
for the story of his artistic efforts on behalf of the 1917, then freshman, class

will go down to terity. In recent
years the Glee Club and Student’s Coun
cil have been benefitted as a result of
his efforts. His academic standing is
nothing to be ashamed of either but you
ee like that from the cal
endar.

You will notice that I have not mentioned our friends, the ladies. We have
not many in the Medical faculty, but let
me say here that they are t.—H.

 

       
 

 
  
 

 
  
   

 
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

“Arent you laying it on pretty
“No; but Helen is.” 9 4

Blueprints

The first meeting of the Engineering
Society was held in the Drafting Room,
on Friday afternoon, October 6th. The
genial ‘‘Doug’’ presided, ably assisted
by ‘* Hezzie,’’ who reached the city somewhat breathlessly. The latter refuses
to tell what delayed him, but we draw
our own conclusions, knowing, as we do,
his proclivities among the female of the
species.

From the first it was evident that the
meeting would be a success—everybody
but Williams was there. The Freshmen
attended toaman. There are about two
dozen of them, bringing up the membership of the Society to somewhere around
fifty-five. In former years the Freshmen
usually joined one of ‘the Arts classes, in
addition to the Engineering Society,
with the result that the second and third
year boys, now, are inextricably mixed
with Classes ’24 and ’25. This year,
however, the new boys gave a unanimous decision to stick strictly to their
own Society, and boost it for all it’s
worth. In the language of the day—
Watch our smoke.

The second and third years boys are
full of stories about their experiences
during the summer. Williams, Crease,
Morrison and Ray landed jobs with a
long-suffering Provincial Government—
on the highways. ‘‘Hezzie’’ was actually entrusted with the position of timekeeper and paymaster, in some wild part
of Cumberland County. Mason MacDonald, Henderson and Cassidy helped
to operate coal mines in Cape Breton,
Sutherland was back to the soil, and
Chris. Campbell exercised himself in
Newfoundland—incidentally cultivating,

upon his upper lip, a fawn-colored ap- |

pendage that is a thing of beauty. Bayer
chased around Sydney doing his best to
appear busy, which the worthy president, the aforementioned, genial ‘‘Doug’’
landed an easy job in the city.

Thurber is welcome to our midst
again. He belonged to the Freshman
Class two years ago. Likewise the glad
hand is extended to J. R. Mitchell and
Jack Lawrence, who are entering third
year work. |

Harold McCurdy, M. A. ’22, who won
the 1851 Exhibition Scholarship last
year is doing research work in Princeton i

of the Science Building, the other day,
accompanied by an umbrella, four
levels, chains, rods, and about fourteen
engineers. Oh, well! We all have our
troubles. aan

 

Sorta Artificial

«, & ha

“‘Helen’s cheeks are like roses.’’

\,
!

\

 

Professor Copp was seen in the lee

 

 

Law Notes

The first meeting of the Law Students’ Society was held in the Moot
Court room in the Forrest Building on
Tuesday, October 10th.

The President of the Society, R. A.
MacLeod occupied the chair while J. R.
Nicholson acted as secretary pro tem in
the absence of A. M. Matheson who was
out shooting (bull) moose. The meeting was well attended and considerable
business was transacted.

After the reading of divers communi
cations the meeting proceeded to nomin- 
ate the Executive of the Society for the
term 1922-3. J. R. Nicholson, B. A., of
the 3rd year, J. G. Fogo, of the second
year, and A. L. Slipp, of the first year,
were unanimously chosen.

The following were appointed a committee to guide the destinies of the Moot
Court during the term: Claude Richardson, C. W. Townshend and A. G. MacKinnon. Various other committees were
appointed, probably the most important
being the Dance Committee with Edgar
Lougheed as convenor and “‘Ike’’ Ferguson and Bill Morrison as members.
W. H. Morrison will also receive the cup
presented to the winning team in the Interfaculty Football League at the end
of the season.

There appeared to be some friction
in the meeting, but this was dispelled
before the meeting adjourned.

A committee was appointed to look
into the matter of a Faculty pin and will
report back to the Society at an early
date.

The Society listened with pleasure
and otherwise to the eloquent appeal
made by the Rev. James K. Hackett. It
is hoped that the Society will be able to
procure the services of members of the
Bench of this Province and that the
memibers of the Society may enjoy the
privilege of listening to their instructive
addresses.

AT THE MAJESTIC

‘‘Savageland,’’ a musical comedy
produced by Pictou County amateur
talent under the direction of Mr. Harry
Murray, was the bill at the Majestic
during the first two days of this week.
Mr. Murray and his company delighted
the Halifax audiences with their cleve
piece. ? .

Beginning today, a comedy drama
entitled ‘‘Putting It Over’’ is on the
boards for the rest of the week, with two
matinees, today and Saturday. This is
the first time this play has been shown
here. Those who attend are assured of
a first class entertainment. if

Te

“The Orimison Alibi,” a ocnsational 
*

a

y
 

S. C, A. RECEPTION

Freshmen Meet Guests of Honor |

and College Leaders.

The Students Christian Association
reception for the new students was held
in the Munro Room on Monday evening,
October 16. Over one hundred guests
were entertained at supper, and their
introduction to this worthy branch of
college life was a very pleasant one.
During the evening the guests of honor
P. F. Moriarity, general secretary of the
local Y. M. C. A., ©. J. Burchell, K. ‘C.,
Dean MacRae of the Law School, Dr.
Bronson, Dr. Woodbury, Professors
Smith and Wilson, were introduced to
the students. Leaders in practically all
student activities at Dalhousie were in
attendance and were presented by ‘‘Larry’? McKenzie, president of the Student’s Council, who acted as chairman.
The official welcome was made by M. M.
MeOdrum, president of the 8.C.A., who
in a few well chosen words described the
important place occupied by the association at the University. A number of
other prominent members gave short
talks emphasizing the value of the 8. ©.
A., its aims and accomplishments.

Thanks is due the ladies for the efficient manner in which they controlled
the commissariat department, and this
was no small contribution to the success
of the reception.

‘PERSONAL
Students learn with genuine regret

 

_ of ‘the illness of Dr. H. L. Stewart. It is

hoped that his recovery will be rapid
and that before long he will again he
conducting his classes in Philosophy.
William Campbell Dunlop, LL.B.
(722), was admitted to the Bar of Nova
Scotia on Tuesday, October 17. His
Lordship Chief Justice Harris presided
in Chambers, motion for admission being made by R. H. Murray, K. O. ‘Bill’”’

js opening an office in Windsor, and

with his wife will soon be poven. his
new home, Entering this University
after a long and meritorious service at
the Front, Dalhousie will always remember him as an excellent student and
an all-round good fellow. His many

 

  
 
 

:
; .
:
4 ' >
_——_—
*

Commerce Clearings

The Commerce Society held its first
meeting Friday, October 13, with Mr.
M. D. Macaulay presiding.

Owing to the fact that Mr. A. W.
Shaw, the secretary-treasurer-elect,
had not returned to Dalhousie, Mr.
Piercey was chosen to fill that office.

It was decided to raise the Society’s
membership fee to one dollar because
that of last year had been found insufficient.

The Society, with characteristic forsight, elected to that rar necessary
body known as the Social Committee
the following persons:

Miss Ruth Fulton, Mr. Gordon
Beazley, Mr. Snow. To this committee
were left all arrangements for a social
funetion to be held about the first week
in November. The kind of function it
will be was left to the judgment of the
committee.

The Business Men’s Lecture will be
continued this year if speakers can be
obtained. Commerce students are
greatly indebted to those who addressed them last year. These lectures are
both interesting and instructive and it
is to be hoped even more can be. given
this year than last. |

Two jines were added to the Com
merece yell, so that it now reads:

“Hit ’er up, hit ’er up, hit ’er up again, ©

Merchants, bankers, shipping men,
Rah, rah, rah,
Sis, boom, bah,
Commerce, Commerce,
Rah, rah, rah,
Yah, yah, yah,
Commerce.’’ .

Junior Jottings

On Friday evening, Oct. 13, Class
04 attended the Orpheus, where they
sat in judgment of a picture sure to
cause interest, viz., ‘‘Is Matrimony a
Failure ?’’ The opinion of the class as
a whole has not yet been received, but
one girl remarked, ‘‘Seemingly, they
can’t live with us or without us.’’

After leaving the theatre we repaired to the Tarry Inn, and the inevitable
dance. Mr. ikston- Harold—at

J. O’C.

 

) yn—not

 
  

 

 

 

 
  

ALPHA, BETA iiviste.” vor won'e you
Alphabet, but .won’t you
learn ‘the Alphabet from a music dealer's text book.
| It starts like this:—
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons,
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles,
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos,
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums.
EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC.

We also carry a nice line of Pictures—
Harrison Fisher's Maxfield Parrish’s, etc.

We Invite You to Join Our Fiction
Lending Society, 2c per day.
J. A. McDONALD PIANO >
& MUSIC CO., LTD. |

419 Barrington Str Halifax, N. 8S.
' Phone Sackville 1200.

 
      

TALLEN'S|

THE LEADING BOOKSTORE

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
Books, Engineers’ Supplies of
all kinds.

Comniercial and Society Stationery.

—Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.

 

      
       
   
     

¥

YOUR DRUGGISTS
MACLEOD & BALCOM

LIMITED
SOUTH END PHARMACY
E. M. MacLEOD ie
| 341, Morris Street. Tel. Sack. 245
QUALITY SERVICE
WEST END PHARMACY

$. R. BALCOM
elephone 314

NORTH END PHARMACY

D
. CHITTICK

 

   
    
   
   
  
  
   

  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Score Indicates Play
In City Rugby Game

That the game is not won until the
final ‘whistle was emphasized with a
vengeance on a wet and slippery field at
the Wanderers’ grounds, when, coming
from behind in the last stages of the contest, the Red and black fifteen overcame
Dalhousie’s 10-3 lead to win Saturday’s
game iby a one point margin.

The ‘‘Red Shirts’’ scored first, about
three minutes after commencement of
play, due to their good half line combination coupled with momentary failure
of the Tiger half line to mark their men.
Four minutes later, Ted Coster, working the ‘‘fake pass’’ to perfection, made
a spectacular run worth travelling many
miles to see, and scored for Dal. Haslam converted.

Dal’s second try by Bates, came half
way thru the second period, and Haslam
converted again nicely.

With but ten minutes left, rapid following-up of a penalty kick added three
points to the Wanderers’ score column.
Five minutes later, after being carried
from the field with an injured arm,
Ritchie MacCoy returned to win his own
game by a superb run resulting in a try
which Lilly converted. Dalhousie then
rallied to a fierce attack, but were unable to get thru for a score in the few
minutes that remained.

Fluck, veteran fullback, and 1920.
Dal. Captain, returned to the game to
fill the breach occasioned by injuries to
Varsity players. He was a great asset
to the defence, with his kicking and
tackling, in spite of lack of practice.

Dalhousie halves were all good individually, but lost many an opportunity
for gains thru insufficient team work.
Mont, Haslam and Porter were in good
form. Bates scored by one of his brilliant runs: but on other occasions might
have helped a lot had he passed sooner.

©

 
  
 
   

 

 
  
 

 
 

CHEER ON, DALHOUSIE !

Everybody out at Studley early Saturday afternoon to cheer Dalhousie to victory. Bring your Gold and Black ribbon,
The Rooters’
Club and “Burlesquers” will be there with
something new.

The Tigers are going to win! Let’s
back our boys to the limit!

and plenty of lung power.

line, the next game should see better
team work. Leadership on the field will
also make itself felt when Capt. ‘‘Dinty’’
Moore’s injured ankle permits him to
get into the game once more.

The Rooters’ Club was again in fine
fettle, outclassing the Wanderers in
every respect in their phase of the day’s
program. Charlie Beazley, Eric Jerret,
Len. Fraser, and Edgar Henderson were
certainly right on the job when it came
to starting a big noise.

The Intermediate game went to the
Wanderers, 5-3.

Intercollegiate League

WESTERN SECTION

U. N. B. 5; Mt. A. O—at Sackville,
October 19th.
Mt. A. plays Acadia at Wolfville to
morrow.
EASTERN SECTION

At time of going to press the schedule for the Eastern. Section was not
definitely ‘decided upon. However it
is expected that Dal will play Kings at
Windsor on Nov. 1. Kings plays at Antigonish, and St. F. X. plays here this
year,

UPPER CANADIAN FOOTBALL.
Toronto, 20; MeGill, 2—at Toronto,
October 7.
Queens, 12; McGill 1—at Montreal,
October 14. ~
Toronto 51; MeGill, 5—At Montreal,

 

   
    
   

 

   
         
       

D. A. A. C. EXECUTIVE

At a meeting on Thursday evening
last, the D. A. A. C. Executive arranged
for immediate opening of the Interfaculty Football League.

Regulations were adopted to be posted on the various University notice
boards. ‘‘D’’ men were absolutely barred from participation, and but two men
who have played two games on the Varsity, or the second, team will be allowed
to play on each Faculty team.

The League is to be of the ‘‘sudden
death’’ variety, one defeat compelling
withdrawal. Four teams, Arts and
Science, Medical, Pharma.-Dent. and
Law, will take the field. The first game
was scheduled for this week, date to be
arranged, when Arts and Science, the
present champions, were set down to
meet Law.

V. C. Clifford was appointed track
manager to succeed ‘‘Spud” Hillis, and
plans were completed for elimination
races to choose a Dal. Relay Team to
take part in the indoor meet at the
Halifax Arena next month. This meet
is being conducted by the Crescents A.
A. C., under sanction of the M. P. B.
A. A. U. C. ‘SM. M.”’

THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC GOODS

Including Spalding’s
Famous Goods.
Football and Track Outfits.

Here you will find men of
your own age and! interests
to serve you with things you
want at prices you can pay.

BELL'S caavaiis mame

GRANVILLE STREET

DeThointe Menemuters foe

 
 
  
 

   
    
 

    
 
 
  
 

  

   
 
  

 

    

       
 

 

 
  
 
 

      
 
  

Ea ek 4 ie: » ‘ : : AA . 5 oe = | be PL } : - : 2 E
p= * ae. } ; a eae eee | A aa eee —) it a be i. mi | j 7 vi , ; fi : \ j y ‘
ica. ae ze — a oi Z nal ‘bry a re A od pe i ‘ia vi a , om s " a | ‘ye “fy te see LZ B - cee tir ‘ : Re 2% | esse) Oy’ 5: D Lee, ae a Wide ue ety siee het dege — 42855 . = Ae ti A } Mi peice ets Phas hao a 9g Et = : ded i |
“f 3 F ia: we e , .; L hee ae hk et doy ihn Bake ty | ae MES. thei AE ei eee oe F FEM PS PLR ‘x5 je: SA pote sR = Tes 5% hoe aT Mare
) == and Yas 7 i wf Sa b ee < face a i ae yy mi > 7 ‘ re _— fd a . ; a cf wn ’ = ra me Pyts::s at ee * > <e : i te . ; ‘J : ’ ; - F i ’ ,
¥ 7a ‘ + eee. =>, £3, Fr a & ’ ‘es = : a - hg x r + ee a y w ig = ts spins a : A ‘ , J _ * Fr 7 7
ce * nit ik coll a a =
F = ee:
eas

v iF i a : § E oa = : ‘ee
Api nese EP a ett i ra aa ee.
te : = at ‘ z es ‘ i = et Fi.
. ates Ap A Re ar
= ; es 4

. i8 many the piano, performed in a manner that FF The same may be said of Coster
ly i or? ai ait Laibeaal ; at ey ‘ , October 21.
iends congratulate him and wish him a Cee ae a rare ? Beaton was as aggressive as ever at
i | | genial couple, Prof. and Mrs. Mur- quarter, while Phinney, the recent arri- . . G oods
ARTS AND SOIE SCIENCE ray MacNeill, were the chaperones. val from Acadia, showed promise, and | NOTICE ! istey. Spor ting
| 3 AN There were, in all, about fifty _ with a little more experience should During the term, 1922-23, all debts We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
Be | (Continued from Page 1) ent—a few more than is. How ff a valuable acquisition. Wander- incurred by societies receiving financial store at 40 Sackville Street. We can
+ dion every student. Cannot Dal- that 3 boar yuarters persisted in offside tactics support from the Students’ Council will supply you with everything for Sport
house keep pace with McGill and To- ee ehh Te rident in the last game. . be, on an order signed by the Secretary Life: Also Pocket Knives, Razors,
__ gonito in this respect 1 Aitoh sonnet Dal. - forwar¢ Binge Sutherland, of the Society incurring the expenditure Shaving Supplies. )
ss. Inter-faculty sport and debating Pda: snails aie ae McKenzie, Baird, Orr sounters: the Secretary of
Pye 7 = also } need Pe (hrin dd eaene ah ' ‘ i | 1 on ad PAN au, ithe Students’ A : neil
Re i ees stones: Saleen |, OOO a Te BS get i lt le Ss :
ET a : Ree | propane es oestine o ey lieCts ji 1a
sed Ls a a Ct 0 ae y ne of i wad, bilan ue S : t fhe ee phan Bie Sa ti ei ses i
a) aie he 7 z i er a WN on A b : oan

lod
=o
aon
~
a

ro ‘ios

Bie?
a i er

Be
Pic |

Rit we ks
| MADER’S CAFE

(Open Day and Night)

Now’s the Time for

Roast Chicken
and OYSTERS

15 GRANVILLE STREET |
HALIFAX, N. 8. |

Phone Sack. 1392

A. & W. MacKinlay

LIMITED

PUBLISHERS, STATIONERS
AND MANUFACTURERS OF
LOOSE LEAF OUTFITS.

Depot for Swan Fountain Pens |

ee
oe

College Paper Stamped from Die.
135-137 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX

—— TH E ——

YOUNG MAN'S STORE

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

W. F. PAGE "rhea, Sse"

HALIFAX, N. 8.

   
   
 
    
 

Gauvin & Gentzel

18 Spring Garden Road
GROUP WORK
A SPECIALTY

‘
G e Mi '
: ‘
‘ = r r ; Te »
: 1)
tava :
Me , f _ >
' = = ‘.
Fisk #4 145 A ¥ i ‘
aoe : 4 ;
re ae o. ie 1 s
mt + 7 ‘ ; a“ _
. 7
oe 4 i bs t “ez we
Fol de i =~ =
a f - mm! a a ‘ 5
a a re 7 AA res ‘
ss ; is + ‘ 4
2G oh | ’
4 = z
; = -*%

 

 

 

    
  
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
Engineers’ Banquet |

The Engineers held their Annual
Banquet in the Green Lantern, on the
evening of Saturday, the 21st. ' The
affair was of course strictly stag, the
only person who bespoke of the weaker
sex being ‘‘Pansy’’. There were about
thirty present—a fair representation
of the society. The object of the function is to bring the freshmen into more
intimate contact with the second and
third year men, and for those who attended it can safely be said that this
object was attained..

The speakers of the evening were:
Prof .Copp, Prof. MacNeil, Dr. Bronson, Asst. Prof. Theakston and Mr. K.
L. Dawson, the latter the Chief Analyst
at the Tram Company’s Gas Works.

The talks were brief and interesting, Prof. Copp appealing, particularly,
by his concise article on the possibilities
and fields of the Engineering profession. Prof. MacNeil and Dr. Bronson
each struck a responsive chord in the
assembly, the former on account of his
intimate contact with students generally, and the latter because of the fact
that he had studied electrical engineering. Prof. Theakston explained that he
would rather play the piano than make
a speech, so was allowed to do so—
later. Mr. Dawson followed with an
interesting few minutes. Mr. C. W.
Currie, of the Freshman Class, spoke
on behalf of the first year men and was
well received.

This concluded the second part of
the program and accompanied by the
piano, an hour was spent in justifying the publication of the Dalhousie
Song k. At eleven the party broke
up—and all walked home.

AcKnowledgments

The Gazette wishes to acknowledge
receipt of subscriptions from the following: Miss Grace Knox, Messrs, Jack
Corbett, L. Sterns, G. P. Murray, R, M.
Fielding, Voorheis Ditmars. .

J. R. NICHOLSON,
Business Manager,

FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY

Footwear for all times and sea
sons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store
_ to Dalhousie. =

 

THE ONION SKIN

“Read It and Weep”

 

Here’s the latest news from Delta
Gamma, boys: '

‘*Dinty’’ Moore is the handsomest
man in the College.

 

Prof. Jones, to French II class:
‘‘ Just stand for the first two weeks until we get acquainted.’

 

Freshman, after hearing the ‘‘degeneration’’ speech of the president of
the Glee Club: ‘‘Is that fellow a Methodist ?’’

Wee Art McD.: ‘‘No, he’s a first year
law student.’’

 

Night watchman at Studley: ‘‘ Hey !
Who goes there ?’’

Reply from the night: ‘‘A professor
with two friends.”

N. W.: ‘‘What! A professor with
two friends !’’

 

Sir Conan Doyle declares that there
are no divorce cases in Heaven. Well,
of course, you can’t get a divorce without a lawyer.

 

A visit to some of the city book
stores shows that a lot of students have
taken Buyology this year.

 

A young gentleman who was plucked
in Philosophy I last session is \said to
have explained the fact by saying that
owing to his absence from three lectures
he missed some of the most important
jokes in the course.

 

Professor to Geology I class: ‘‘ You’ll
find this quiz very easy, it’s mostly
chemistry.’’

First Co-ed: ‘*You look like Helen
White. 99 ‘
Second Ditto wT know it, but I look

’

better in brown.
 —McGill Daily.

“T shall settle my bill immediately,”
said the mosquito, as he ted upon
the sleeping man’s bald head.—Erm,

 

 

HAZING—1923.

Whence all but he had fled.
eT mee Lot those yore
eve eg drane p * y BOR

    

   

5 b a ie 4
; 7 : 2 a yA i? freee, F Bm) i.
Fa Tare Ore A es ew WP EE eA
i * . } * * Ft i qm ¢ (a *; ’
a>, e's i be el c z i in Bt "all, ‘
, a, a q nf Nae 1S) : > 3)
: " i, sid i es! . hi | i a a el
A i iy P| a ; o se i 7 é i
i a =e ae Pa ‘te Fr nid a8 EL: wee
i oe a ; tine ae vA Pe a
; i i. } ; tr yy =
5 - ‘i % E ‘ ie y See et, hw | we. J ot

  
 
