 

Vol. LIV.

 

Che Dalbousie Gazette

—FounDED 1869—
Issvuep Werekty. One DotuaR Per YEAR.

Business Manager - - J, R. NICHOLSON, B. A.

Ls 77 Queen Street.

Editor C. F. BOWES, B. A.

AU subscriptions and advertising accounts payable
to the Business Manager.

Associate Editors
Miss Ereen Burns Miss MABEL Morrison

D. C, CoLQuHoUN R. F, CALLAN
M. C, CLAY ©, R. Baxter
G. C. Macigop R,. M, RicHarpson
J. G. Foeo
Sports Editor - -- - - - J. A, DUNLOP

Special Reporters
Miss M, 0. Mappen; Miss Roperta M. Forpes

L. A. Munro; W. G. Pore
Miss J. O’Connor,

Ee

EDITORIAL

 

We are in receipt of several letters
soliciting aid for the Armenians, Russians and other unfortunates who are
unable to procure food for themselves
and who are starving.

Some years ago, if we remember correctly, it was funds for the starving
Chinese.

Now the writer would be the last one
to say a word against such philanthropie = = ese good oo
at home. arity is a fine thing, bu
the man who coined the phrase, “Oharity begins at home’’ knew what he was
talking about. Charity does begin at
home, a the place to that kind
of ty i a here in ada,

right in

‘The war re hitherto
al of situations following

     
 
  
 
 
 

FOUNDED 1869

 

HALIFAX, N. 8., MARCH 15, 1922

person to be entrusted with philanthropic schemes. Let us clean house in Canada first, and once we have done this,
and done it properly, then we can turn
to the help of nations in a similarly
unfortunate position.

 

The Gazette extends its congratulations to Miss Juanita O’Connor and Mr.
G. C. Macleod on their success in our
Literary competition. One thing in connection with the latter award should be
noticed and that is that Mr. Macleod
has gained the entire 25 points entitling
him to the D, during the present Academic year.

THE LAW SCHOOL BANQUET.
The annual banquet of Dalhousie
Law School, which was held in the St.
Julian room of the Halifax Hotel on
the evening of March 2, for the first
time since the war, is likely to again become a permanent feature of the Law
School activities. The banquet was attended by about 60, of whom nearly 40
were Dalhousie Law students, the remainder being members of the Supreme
Court Bench and professors and lecturers at the Law School, and the comment, both at the banquet itself and afterwards, was all to the same effect;
namely that it was an unqualified success, to use a hackneyed phrase.
Those who spoke were Chief Justice
R. E. Harris and Justices B. Russell,

H. Mellish, T. R. Rogers and J. A. Chis
holm of the Supreme Court of Nova
Scotia, County Court, Judge W. B.
Wallace, Dr. D. A. MacRae, Dean of
the Law School, Prof. 8S. E. Smith, T.
R. Robertson, K. ©.; Col. J. K. Mackay, president of Dalhousie Law Society; R. M. Fielding, Norman Mackenzie

ae ae area ohn F, MacNeill aa
G@ © Winvia, dors thea ous of the
Judges afecia to the addresses of the
students who spoke on the various
toasts in very complimen terms,
and the general opinion of all who attended was that the evening had provided them with an intellectual treat

_and that the resumption of the annual
ee

 

aco was a Oe

é
ut
eS é .
’ 7,
ww ; he ote}
i ’ ' = ‘ Mee
+ 3 . a
, :
4 4 4
: "25 7 ‘4
7 dal

| The Dalhousie Gazette

No, 10
and what was hoped for in the
future. There was a movement on
foot, he said, to make it necessary for
one entering a law school or on the study of law to have at least two years of
arts. Manitoba had already adopted it
and it would probably become standard
all over Canada.

The Dean said that those studying
law must adapt themselves to the new
conditions. Formerly students working in an office learned law by writing out forms, but this was now done. by
stenographers, and the knowledge
must be gained in other ways. He said
that more full time lecturers were needed at Dalhousie if it was to maintain its
leadership among Canadian law schools,
but he hoped that the volunteer “lecturers would always be with them. The
Dean paid a trbute to Professors J. E.
Read and 8. E. Smith as well as to the
volunteer lecturers, without whom, he
said, they could not carry on.

C. L. Beazley, of the second year
(1923) class, proposed the toast to the
Bench and Bar, in appropriate words
(except those by which he apologized for
himself), and replies were eloquently
made by the Chief Justice on behalf of
the Bench and by T. R. Robertson, K. C.,
for the Bar, W. J. O’Hearn, K. C., president of the Bar Society, being absent
throngh illness.

The Chief Justice was emphatic in
his statements that there was no royal
road to success in law and that success
depended more thah anything else on
industry and honesty. They would
have to work long days for years to attain distinction in the profession and it
was surprising to a man in middle life
or older how fast the years went. The
Chief Justice told of the difficulties under which law students worked in former times, but said that one advantage
was that they received practical train
Mr. Robertson referred to the
growth of Dalhousie Law School and
the tremendous difference between the
present and the years when he attended, ete. He pointed out that this year
‘students were atending from British
Columbia, Alberta, Newfoundland, the —
‘United States, the West Indies and
other. ene as well as the ‘Maritime

 
 

The Acadia basketball team stayed
at the Residence for the night they
were in the city. The arrangements
for that game just about provided tthe
last kick to that much abused subject
‘‘eollege spirit.’’ There was no dance
and the Acadia people had very little
chance to become acquainted the hour
they played basketball. It was a fairly large gathering of students and a

social hour after the game could not

have been so very wicked. The other
colleges always give our teams a celebration of some sort and we felt kind
of guilty trooping back to the ‘‘Birehdale’’ after the game—especially when
it had been advertised all day there was
a prospect of a dance.

We wait for more such impromtu
social gatherings and less of the $2.50
dances. There was a wonderful chance
that night to better ‘‘college spirit’’,
‘tintereollegiate spirit’’ and the funds
of the ‘‘D. A. A. ©.’’ All three got a
blow below the belt. Who is to blame?

Mr. Voorheis Ditmars was a welcome visitor to the residence last week.
The inner circle of his friends
held a reception in room 202 on
Tuesday evening. They hope business
will bring him back to the city soon
again.
Several students have asked us to
make a request in the columns of the
‘\Gazette’’ for games for the various
college smoking rooms now that gambling has been banned. Chess, checkers,
dominoes, marbles, will all be suitable.
All donations to be made to Mr. Goldberg or Mr. A. Robertson—who have
kindly consented to supervise the sport
which will necessarily be strictly amateur. |

Mr. Gordon Fogo was in to lunch
one day early in the week and received the usual ovation from Henry’s confederates. Also Dr. V. D. Crowe, of

‘Stewiacke, came in to see us the day of

the ‘‘Dal’’-‘‘ Wanderers’’ game.

Thru the lack of college dances
some of our most distinguished inmates
took in the ‘‘Tech’’ dance on Thurs
Feb. 23rd. others, we noord and Hethington. Also we heard that, thru the

00 y of the Residence, ‘‘Ver
 
 

    
   
 
 

   

S FROM

ward with the

6” Guthro was able to appear w,,

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
 
 

on Sunday evening—The train went off
the track. |

Plans are on foot for another
‘‘Birchdale’’ dance to be held Friday
evening.

The final billiard tournament is under way and details will be posted from
time to time.

We have heard considerable moaning over the early demise of the ‘‘Glee
Club’’, That Society is losing a very
good chance to provide entertainment
for the student body in the new gym.

The executive of the ‘University
Club’’ met here last Wednesday and the
‘*Club’’ meets tonight.

PINE HILL

Even J. D. N. ‘MacDonald and
Kern turned out for the Dal-Wanderers game. As Hd Grant remarked, the
fifty cents for admission was not spent,
it was invested. A good investment it
was too! Pine Hillers were shocked to
rear that one of our number—the
Sports Editor—had been betting on the
Wanderers. On being threatened by
the mob, he carefully explained that he
did it in loyalty to Dal. He never won
a bet in his life so wagered that the
Red and Black would win, in order that
they might loose. If the Wanderers
hear about it they will have a new alibi, for who could win with such ‘‘luck’’
against them. We all enjoyed the
parade and the free show at the Orpheus. Then, after a lunch at MacCurdy’s Inn marched back to Pine Hill,
voiceless, moneyless but happy.

The great checker tournament is
about yover. Alex Murray and Harl
Green are the final contestants. Both
are in strenuous training for the playoff. Neither will play unless he feels
100% fit and as one of the two usually
feels somewhat below par, the date of
the encounter is rather doubtful.

Malcolm MacColl and his ‘‘wife’’
Geo. Smith, are both in the hospital

: Flu. We hope they will
be around again before this is in print.
The Pine Hill cat brought in the following scrap of news:
Johnstone Chew, made His debut |

_ At a party of Class 23 ~
In someone’s hat and borrowed spats.
He surely was nice to see, =

 
   

~~" i soit , .
oT) PORN ol aeeee ce, eee
t ‘ f ae ok) Ge > ay

  

ok

- ” : ~ pe
\ ¥ i fe =!
ee ae pio fy 43
i) bie > S20 ; ate 7 2 “ rs
7 5 , aice a | =
i " a ‘ -, ih fi a ea” - a © bs i P ;
* : , F: i
i; <a a ae TT. e og a

‘ql ai? eae ~ 5 4 atc
i aaa age et ‘ le J hee oi . ee ra ’
mid ge ia 24) ae ot ro
icine 8) RS ee eae
f 7 ae “, =
. 4, =e

¢
=

THE RESIDENCES

2 Fs
wy ee eae ae
cook ES Se me ae
fe ne yt g nn \
ie Kreg — _

   

MARLBORO DOINGS
‘‘Sing a song of birthday feasts,

Table full of eats
Chicken, sausage, jelly, cake,
The rarest of all treats.’’

Altho midnight lunches are not infrequent at Marlboro, it is not very often that we have such a rare feast as
that occasioned by the birthday of our
young lawyer-to-be. Early, a box laden with all that appeals to the appetite
arrived from Cape Breton and if that is
a sample of the eats down there no wonder they are healthy specimens.

Besides a few minor feeds nothing
very interesting has taken place within
our halls. Many have settled down to
the serious side of life and begun to
apply themselves seeking the reward of
diligence.

One of our number has departed
from our midst to seek accommodation
in a more sécluded and peaceful spot
so as not to be disturbed in hours of
concentration.

NOTICE

There will be no Gazette next week.
Our number of issues during a year is
limited to 20. Of these the present issue is number 17; number 19 has been
set aside as a memorial number for the
late Dean Woodbury and will appear the
last of the present month. Number 18
will be the next regular issue to appear
and as far as we know at present will be
out two weeks from today. Number 20,

our Graduation Number will be publish
ed as soon as the material is collected
after the closing of the University.

. - All competitors in the contest for
the Dennis Prizes are reminded that
they have only a little less than a month
“ get their compositions in the hands
of the.

ommittee in charge of the competition. All coulasial mast, Feaeeee
ted by April 10th, 1922,

 

‘We beg to announce the award of
being Miss Juanita O’Connor and @. ©.

   

’
‘ . a \ : 7%
j / ya ‘ ¥. 4
; P zs sf 5 ; 73
‘ J :
; : ;
q ia

= hat i yy fgg tT 43 44 ae i

; : ‘ ‘ fi y : ) i r } fn 4 | « =

i yd: Gakiee Lela ¢ lee
MOOiAaATtion f : Es “s

Gg: ala ay aa Weer ea tLe a

ie

  
 

4 a. : i cree a ; a
‘ 7 } rs i i, aj ml
5

   
       
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 

5 = ,

=! F< le 
TT , ST in TWAT 1 vr
=" -' =. FS 7 —— ¥, bi abe lie aaa wa.

m ; 7 ‘ ;

3 te e
os 4: le on re ah es = a

fi PAY , 7

' j cl wD a
"Are #,% Pa 2 ee we es. Se aa ate et of. i ame al
eiarl ft, pi ares ig 7 9 fe Re ee ,
ji se
(A i Pa es ZT. ’ ,
rT @V ,aith & ae
Ne us i iO pees, m As

DELTA GAMMA.

Having missed the Ferry by about
1 99/100 minutes, Delta Gamma, on
Saturday the 25th, used up the fifteen
minute wait by getting weighed for one
(1) cent. Aggregate weight two (2)
tons, one hundred and fifty-three (153
lbs.) two and forty-four forty-fifths
ounces (2 44/45 ozs).

The meeting was held at the home
of Miss Marion Forsyth and after a
short business meeting in which the
business was ‘nil’ except for the minutes and a discussion over a _ wastepaper basket the meeting adjourned
for social purposes. A vote of thanks
was tendered to Mrs. Forsyth for her
kind hospitality.

There followed a very poor’ impromptu programme of five (5) numbers. We mean it was very poor except
for three (3) numbers which were excellent. After a dainty supper the society departed to the boat.

The harbour resounded with the Dal
yell and Dalhousie Songs for the next

fifteen minutes given from the deck of

the worthy steamer Halifax and the
lusty throats of Delta Gamma stand
byes.

We regret to say that at the end of
the journey the President was practically speechless as she was a colt, (beg
pardon, a little hoarse).

STOP PRESS

The Intercollegiate Debate takes
place Wednesday, March 22, at 8 p.m.,
in Nelson Hall, Navy League Building,
Corner South and Barrington Streets.
Doors open at 7.30 p.m. All seats reserved, prices 50c., and 75c. Tickets

sold by prominent members of Societies

and Dalhousie students are requested
to. make reservations early so as to facilitate matters for. the Committee — in
eS Further information regard
ing the debate will be given in the daily

Prom. ? 7 ¢ ;
STUDD ROBERTSON & BOWERY
IVES BATTLE.

Three Rounds toa Draw

Mader’s Garage, Feb. 25.
Not satisfied with the
vided by the Wanderers-Dalhousie fra
1s, a packed house of wildly excited
tans, rambled 0 eee to the echo the

  

by - me a, YF" | 4 f
. ae oe mi | at 7a == F res a = eh.
: Se ci a ry aad “ a
i 1

om. 8, J a \ = a
lk ul et Aha se we OH dpi ate =! a 7 pay ee ae
y , a

‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Round 2. Began with an exchange
of love-taps terminating with Bowery
reclining gracefully on the running
board of a Dodge automobile. On_resuming an orgy of clinching and check
dancing was indulged in, Stud having
the best of this frame, both tapping the
claret just before the bell.

Round 3. This was the sensation of
the bout, abounding in footwork a la
Roseland, Bowery shaking a wicked
knee, Stud led off with’a bear hug and
Ives passed to the ribs with a poke
check coming near to sagging the twine.
The Halifax boy then slugged a three
bagger where the chicken got the axe,
but was stopped with a straight arm.
Bowery again led off with a high pair
but was forced to a show down by three
of a kind. The round ended thirty all
bringing a deuce of a bout to an end.

Stud’s strong footwork was a feature of the bout, while Bowery excelled
in feminine tactics, avoiding Stud’s embraces with remarkable agility.

Referee Mader, seconds, Mugs Longley and Max MacOdrum, and timers,

Lilly and Beckwith, gave general satisfaction. Apam LoaFEr.

GLEE CLUB.

After several weeks hibernation,

Glee Club has shown signs of spring in
the form of a meeting on Monday, Mar.
6. Sufficient reasons have been manifested why this hibernation took place.
It was necessary that these reasons be
satisfactorily explained to the members
of Arts and Science who took measures
to censure the President of the Society
for not holding more meetings during
the winter.

It is true that this year has been
rather a hard winter for students financially the average boy, perhaps not
having his usual bulging pocket book
did not feel that he could spend so layishly what he had and Glee Club would
have been a social evening that all
would enjoy where boys and girls could
become acquainted with one another
and yet not draw on their funds.

owever, the reasons were numer
ous for not holding Glee Club and it is

to be ‘hoped that the agitating members
are satisfied with the results. Perhaps
they don’t realize that it is not without difficulty that a program is arrang
ed for “ne meeting. What are they
willing to do to help get it ready? So
far not much support has been given

   

  

7 = Te
; i Vy ,
nae .
- Es 7 =
; =
A | a5
. ie ~ z ==
* ' 75 | ; :
: 2S «4 + i : v=
. é fe === is . = od : - ; 2 :
F ay ie i i : : :
: = = t mM, L's
om / F 5) Pie
we + os #4 i ig
f 7
'

 

 

  

_ LADIES’ READY TO WEAR

  
  
 
   

A. & W. MacKinlay

LIMITED

PUBLISHERS, STATIONERS
AND MANUFACTURERS OF
LOOSE LEAF OUTFITS.

 

 

Depot for Swan Fountain Pens

 

 

College Paper Stamped from Die
135-137 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX

THE TARRY INN

Did you ever think of telephoning the Tarry
Inn after an evening of hard study for a box
of eats?

They will put up a delicious lunch of:—

BROWN BREAD and BUTTER
SANDWICHES, DOUGHNUTS
CAKES or PIES :

The Telephone Number is S-3875

THE TARRY INN

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
123 YOUNG STREET

-_-_“------- eer
a i EO

——_——— ee

HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

WENRY 8. COLWELL ccscccccsscsscccecseses President
GARNET J. COLWELL, ........../..... Vice-President
RAY J. COLWELL: svcsssccccscciccsscsdevvcees Director
CYRIL H. COLWELL .......sss000 Secretary-Treasurer

26 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
DRY GOODS, MILLINERY


    
 
 

 
  
  

 

  

     
   
 
  

   
   
  
 

CU ‘TAILO
Stara RING

SPRING SUIT
, 4 LOLS.

   
   

 
   
a a

INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATE

Wednesday, March 22nd, is a date
to be kept in mind by every Dalhousie
student for on that evening there will
be in Halifax a battle-royal between St.
Francis Xavier and Dalhousie for intercollegiate debating honours. For
four years the debates have been away
from home but now Dalhousians are going to have an opportunity to see and
hear their own team in action, Dalhou‘sie has every’ reason to be*proud of her
showing in recent years in this very
important intercollegiate activity, for
in the past two debates she has captured the honours and we believe her
chances are good this year for a repetition of those performances. We expect to find in St. Francis Xavier a
worthy opponent—a college that has
an enviable debating record—but our
team realizes this and are preparing to
put up a good fight and make St. F. X.
work hard if they are going to carry
off the laurels.

The work of ‘selecting judges is always a very delicate and sometimes
distasteful task, for the two colleges
have to agree on the three men selected
and very often the work excites suspicion and distrust. But this year the
selections have been made in a very
short time, in a harmonious spirit, and
without friction between the colleges.
It is a pleasant relief to see such a spirit of good .oerer displayed in
these intercollegiate competitions, and
it is one of the things that helps to
bring the colleges together and raise
them in one another’s estimation. After all perhaps the greatest value of
these rivalries, whether in debating or
in sport, is simply to develop the right
spirit in men,—the spirit that gives
one’s opponent a squpare deal, that is
not spoiled by victory, that learns to
take defeat, and would even prefer to
lose rather than win unfairly. We
could scarcely find three men in the provinces more outstanding in their professions than the three chosen as es.
They are Dr. Bordon of Mt. on,
Dr. Boyle of Kings, and Chancellor
Jones of U. N. B., and we are pleased
that these gentlemen have consented to

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ARE DOING

in his appearances at Dal has shown
considerable platform presence and
fluency as a speaker, and we are quite
sure he will not disappoint our highest
expectations for him.

The team this year is under the
able coaching of Sid. Bonnell of Pine
Hill and we feel especially safe in his
hands since he has the distinction of
being an old Dal debater himself, and
of coaching two Dal teams to unanimous
victories. He always goes after unanimous decisions and thus far has been
able to get them.

Bill Jones has charge of the advertising for the debate and he promises to
make it a night not soon to be forgotten
in Dalhousie debating annals and owing
to the nature of the subject, which
should prove an attraction to outsiders,
he expects to secure one of the large
theatres in the city so that ample accommodation may be afforded.

The subject is a live one,—whether
capital or labour is the more responsible for our undesirable economic conditions,—and, in a city like Halifax,
should draw many enthusiastic sup
porters for each side, from the ranks of:

both capital and labour. Dal is defending labour and no doubt that will be the
popular side with the student body for
very few of us at the end of the college
term would think of laying any claim to
being a capitalist, while practically all
of us do look upon ourselves as representative of the most downtrodden and
abused class of labour,—especially with
the final examinations approaching.
On the night of the debate when the
decision, is announced the students, acoundbaa? to custom, must give the yell
of the winning college. With no reflection whatever on St. F. X. we ext
give Dal yell and want at least 700 students there to make the rafters ring.
But whether Dal wins or losses the least
the student body can do is to turn out
in foree on the evening of Mar. 22nd, to
welcome the debaters from St. F. X.,
and to show our own team that we appreciate what they do for the honour of
old Dalhousie. | G. M.

 

t to —

 

|

saw that his watch registered nine minutes to nine. He waited at the breakfast table long enough to scald his
‘‘innards’’ with a gulp of boiling coffee
and then burned the ground towards
Studley—a mile away—dressing himself as he ran. Arriving there four
minutes later he pulled out his trusty
Chronom’ to ascertain whether he had
a minute to recover his wind—when Lo!
after a second look at the watch he
found that it was exactly eight .o’clock,.
and he was an hour ahead of schedule.
As there was no one about except the
janitor—and he a deeply religious individual—the resulting flow of language
is lost to humanity, but rumor hath it
that for several hours after—there was
a distinct sulphurous odor in the immediate vicinity of Coburg road, and early
risers heard a sad voice murmuring,
‘*Well isn’t that a pity’’.
‘*Karly to bed, early to rise

Ain’t it the devil the way a clock lies.’’

MEDICAL NOTES

When Roe MacKenna poked in the
shot that gave Dalhousie the City
championship for this year, old Johnny Milton’s Pandemonium reigned.
Two perfectly new hats, evidently held
in readiness for this moment of bliss
made graceful flights to the ice (thrills)
and for the remaining three minutes of
the game, the boys worked themselves
into a mood that was justified when
the final gong went with no further
score, to manifest disgust of that worthy manufacturer of Halifax’s ‘‘stafl’’
of life’’ the redoubtable Ben, who with
his entire (presumably) family graced
the benches just in front of the Dal consoaen Wild demonstration followed.

e mighty Max draped himself artistically around Art Lilly’s neck, only removing himself to allow that warrior to

   
 

¥

tt cd 3 * , af a i F Tf
ef - oii, 4 mn 4 j ee rt +. rae
ic : oie i rs we | es i i
: pa P| , Fs

i
I cd ies

son
q
ae at

~ alee) saa
ie 6) ee, ae aoe
on #* rs ' _ s
os ee can aye SN ea ee

—
il

ciety

 

ir | r / = . ‘

% ’ oe ty
Due
re y F

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

FOR THE INFORMATION OF
THE STUDENTS.

Receipts.
Duress: Ss Pala ves vee $3100
D. Bie Oi eos eiees co 2449
"4, Bede Souk Ye ver eeel es 472
$6021

"The expenditure of U. S. C. include
cost of special football train to Truro.
Refund from C. N. R. is on credit side.

Eapenditures
DD MN, Bee wee Be . $3000
LD le scp os ok ws nctee Pes 643
ie fy Sheds ob ee ke . $50
SIE su hn.6 dk 2: h-easets 15
Dp Be Phe odd veg peed 13
is i cena eadv ea 176
Skating Cla ovis c7r... 628’

DD, WA We vedes oes tiaeo

| 998
Balance in Bank .....$1023

The above statement shows the present financial standing of the Student
Council Fund. No money has been expended other than through the usual
channels as laid down by constitution
of the U. 8 .C. The balance in bank
will be required to meet outstanding
grants to various college societies and
bills, after they have been approved by
the finance committee. The ‘Students
Council cannot be held responsible for
any bills contracted by societies over
the amount granted them by thée.council.
If any bills have been so contracted they
will only be met if, in, the opinion of
the finance committee, they are legitimate, and do not, in any way, curtail
the necessary expenses of any other so
" (Sgd:) L. W. FRASER,
Secretary-Treasurer,
Council of the Students.

RESULTS OF U. 8. C. ELECTIONS.

Arts & Science: Class ’23: M. M.
MacOrdum (reelected), L. W. FraM. Jones (re

 

ser (reelected), W.
elected), Miss A. Hunter, Miss
Clark. Ws, } |

Class ’24: ©, Crease (reelected
M. M aulay, D. McInnes, Miss ‘“

     
   
 
   
 
 
 
 

€ ‘ |
, Se 3 to
me a bi i val
’ wa

soren hy | = | 2 P

ee :
weeeus as! o i

; " +

4:

a
; a =
im

 

D, A, A, C. ANNUAL MEETING, 
Here is the slate for next year:

Hon, Pres.—J. McG. Stewart,

Pres—Murray Britton

Vice-Pres—Max MacOdrum

Sec’y.-Treas,—Ted Coster

Manager Football Team—Charlie Baxter

Manager Hockey Team—Charlie Beazley

Manager Basketball Team—Merle Clay.

Manager Track Team—E, B. (“Spud”) Pllis.

Hwecutive—Lougheed (Law); MelInnis (Arts)
Bruce (Med.); Dooley (Dents); Beaton (Pharmaey.)

For a change the annual meeting went along
swimmingly. Most factions seemed in accord, and

it took only two hours to transact the business. —

‘The question of an advisory board for Athletics firet

.

. wv t
¢ ete 4 t e ;
on es uu + 4
~~ - _* us. oo
Car hs Mee , ; :
ves" : * C0 ty T= & 7 Ihe " me Pere Am (hy eer

came up and MacKenzie who had gone deeply into
the question moved that” the Students agree’ and

appoint the President and Secretary of the D. A.
A. C, and the President of the Students Council as
student members thereon. Carried. W. C. Dunlop next brough up his revision of the constitution
to allow assistant managers to be appointed for
football and hockey, An amendment was added to
the effect that none but registered students be allowed to represent the college. Carried, Elections
were going on merrily and while the scrutineers were
counting the ballots, reports were heard from the
various team managers—McInnis, MacDonald and
Graham. The question of fiimances came up and
Richardson, W. Dunlop, W. Jones, MacKenzie, Cos_
ter and a few more participated both on and off
the point. Jones who makes a specialty of constitutions was keen for a new one altogether but it
was pointed out that as the D. A. A, C. was an in
corporated body, any change would have to be sub
mitted to the House of Assembly for ratification.
As no one expected to be in college long enough for
that to go through the motion was lost.

It was also decided that next year Duke MacIsaac’s ferocious hockey Tigers would have wings!
—that is on their D’s to distinguish them from the
commoner variety as worn by footballers. The
committee in charge of decorations brought in this
report which was adopted. Two games in football,
three in hockey or basketball, two points at a track

‘meet, entitle the player to his letter. After two

years a cap will be awarded (perhaps for swelled
head!) On graduation the player takes what’s

. left of his sweater and a gold football of a pawn
able variety. Other similar trinkets for hockey,
basketball and track.
President Moore on behalf of the donor, J.

ptthe, basketball title Ihat mo seophy to yet in aight,
| The hockey title will be settled in the old English
W. A, *tyle on the campus after convocation.

  
  

 

  

¥ ‘ a
~ vies Praia A eg ola EE
¥ : i} Ai, —

Sena? oie een Mp ;

_ . : —- 7 : . ry ’

eta bias Ae ae is
7 2 Y ind i i = eet 7 ~
i (ee —_- Foe an A t i
Pia “ ‘ Mu
\ ‘4 , : ‘S 4 | cn

ie a ie

rn 1 3 a7
zw . :
Sa 7 "

y = Uh q > ® f

y
a 4 iy r
= &

 

— THE —

YOUNG MAN’S STORE

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

 

W. F. PAGE ern George St.

HALIFAX, N. 8.

 

Your Education
is not complete if confined to printed
books and lectures. Visiting the in
teresting and popular places in
every city helps a lot.

     
   
     
 
  
 

  

We know of no place more popular
or interesting in Halifax than

  
      

THE

New Green Lantern

  

 

  

FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY.

Footwear for all times and seasons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store to Dalhousie

THE SPRING GARDEN
SHOE STORE — 
W. FENTON, Manager.
25 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

5% Discount to All Students

      
       
     

Gauvin & Gentzel
18 Spring Garden Road
PHOTOGRAPHERS

 
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

The exclusive use of the
highest quality pure
Virginia Tobacco has made

PLAYER’S the favorite

Flag flies !

 

x

ea

in

Lave

"

N

}

eee

|

   

 

 

         

DAL WINS INTERCOLLEGIATE TITLE

Old Dame Fortune continues to reside in the
lair of the Dalhousie Tigers and never made her
presence more vitally felt than on Friday, March
3rd, at Amherst where with Monte Haslam acting
as her medium, she awarded another victory, and
with it another championship, to the Gold and
Black by a score of 1 to 0, after four and a half
minutes overtime. Dalhousie was lucky alright as
in ‘the Mt, Allison team Duke’s boys encountered
one of the fastest forward lines they have met with
this year, and these encouraged by over 500 fans,
male and female, were out to win from the first
toot of the whistle.

It was sticky ice and altho Dalhousie worked
hard, in the first session the balance of play favored the Mounties and it was only the sensational
work of the Duke that allowed his players to leave
the ice without a score against them. During the
next two periods matters improved and once or
twice the Gold and Black were within inches of
scoring. The Duke still stopped the majority of
shots however. At the end of the regular session,
the boys felt they could win in the overtime and
Art Lilly was keen to play all night until a decision had been reached. The Duke also concurred,
and Hortense Smith offered some concrete advice.

Things were going about even in the first min
utes of the overtime and timekeeper “Quack” MceQuade was looking anxiously at his watch when
came the break of the game. Lilly playing at centre, relayed the puck out from the side to Haslam.
The Buffalo boy did not have time to straighten
out for a shot, but received the rubber on his wrong
side and took a long lift at the net. Two Mounties
were in the way but somehow the disc rolled by
both of them and goal judge Johnny McCurdy nearly went wild as he raised the handkerchief. A
few seconds after the bell rang to change ends, with
five minutes still to go. The Garnet and Gold tried
hard but they could not break through and the
Tigers walked off the ice with their second championship inside of a week—both decided by a 1 to
0 score, :

Following the game the Marshlands Club hed
arranged a small dance jin honor of the visiting
teams and royally acted as hosts to the players.
The following represented Dalhousie: Melsaac,
Smith, Lilly, Dunn, Haslam, Horsler, Beaton,
Hickey. Glennie, Pickard and Wyse starred for
Mt, A. Neil Wilkie refereed.

 

ARTS WIN BASKETBALL TITLE

By defeating Engineers, Monday, March 6th,
by a score of 21 to 12, the Arts crowd of basketeers
led by Herman Campbell have garnered in the honors of the Interfaculty basketball league for the
present year. It was @ listless series at best, with
the winners Dents and Engineers only having sufficient interest in the schedule to have their teams
on hand when they had games to play. The con
tending gladiators lined up as follows:

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

THE GAZETTE SPORTING PAGE

ENGINEERS:—Bayer, Wilson, Forwards;
Reid, Centre; Maxwell, Stearns, Guards; Kent Marshall and O’Brien, Subs.

“HE’S A SON OF A GUN!”
How Gunn got 90 per cent of the ladies vote
in Arts.
Witness this placard.
“Have you a_ sister coming to Dalhousie?
GUNN will look after her.”

SKATING CLUB’S ANNUAL

The Skating Club held its “one and only” on
Thursday last and strange to say a quorum turned
up, including one or two ladies, The report of the
executive committee received the customary approval after which next year’s slate was selected as follows:

Hon. Pres.—Dr, Cameron.

President—Gordon Fogo (Law)

Vice-Pres—Roberta Forbes (Dents)

Secretary.—Doug. Thompson (Arts)

Treasurer.—Sim Gass (Meds)

Evecutive—Max MacOdrum, Cummings Haslam, “Spud” Ellis, “Tooter” Somers, Beaton of
Pharmacy.

DAL BASKETEERS TOUR NEW BRUNSWICK

On the evening of March 2nd the Dal Basket
Ball Team left Halifax enroute for Fredericton via
St. John, with a complete line up of cripples including a crippled manager.

The journey to St. John was uneventful. The
day was spent in.our sister city in various ways
by the team. Some took in the sights, others the
industrial plants, while one was found after dinner
immersed in the pages of his note-book in the Public Library. (An M, A. Course is hard).

At four o’clock we left for Fredericton and after a hectic trip through the forests of N. B. we
reached our destination at 7.30 p. m,

We journeyed via two ancient hacks to the
U. N .B, gym and after a short work out in their
match-box Gym the game commenced. We were
trimmed 38-27. In all fairness to the boys it may
be stated that the U. N. B. team has only been defeated twice in their new gym in the last four years.

After the game we were entertained at a very
enjoyable dance. Our worthy manager true to tradition “fell” for the usual number of “smothes”
and the Pine Hill representatives upheld the honor
of that institution by engaging the last dance.

We left Fredericton Saturday morning for St.
John reaching that fair city in time for a repast
tendered to us by the management of the Trojans.

The game in the evening was well attended
and the Dal team received generous support.

However, the fine work of the St. John team
coupled with familiarity fo their own gym were too
much for the Dal quintette, The result which was
obvious after the first ten minutes was a second defeat for Dal, the score being 61-39. The game was
hard fought and heavy checking prevailed through.

out,
* | ‘the trip ended after the game; sever
;

eal '

a
Ce

a ae eee = ee,

night train. Some, however, stayed in St. John
over the week-end. One of our number, a fast and
shifty forward not content with staying the weekend with friends appears to have decided on a stay
of considerable duration. We hope to hear of his
return to Pine Hill in the near future, F. E. C.

Dalhousie ended the hockey season
in a blaze of glory last Friday when
they defeated Thorburn 3 to 2. The
game which was not for any championship (Dal is satisfied with two) took
place on sticky ice, and was fairly even.

Dalhousie girl basketeers upheld the
honor of the college by annexing the
Girls Intercollegiate Basketball title
when they defeated the Acadia co-eds
by a single point last Friday evening.
A fuller account will appear later.

OUR HOCKEY PLAYERS
DUNN
McKENNA
LILLY
HICKEY
HORSLER
DUNLOP
MoIS AAC
SMITH
BATES

DALHOUSIAN RECOVERED
FROM ILLNESS

The many friends at the College and
about the city of James H. Power, B.
A. 719, LLB. ’21., who is taking a postgraduate course at Harvard will be
pleased to learn that he has completely
recovered from his recent illness. He
expects to return to the city upon com
pletion of his present year at the Amer
ican institution. .

Modern Cassius: ‘‘On what meat
has this our Caesar fed that he’s become so great?’’

Modern Brutus: ‘‘He’s just turned

vegetarian.’’

Dalhousie Headquarters

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at
our store at 40 Sackville Street.
We can supply you with every
thing for Sport Life. Also Pocket
Knives, Razors, Shaving Supplies.

}
‘i |

‘Morton & Thomson —
7

 
(Continued from Page 1)

his address was punctuated with humorous references to Dalhousie, some of
which were appropriately referred to
by Mr. Justice Rogers, who responded
in the absence of the President, Dr. A.
Stanley Mackenzie. His Lordship took
the opportunity to eulogize the work
Dr. Mackenzie had done in recent years
in the face of many difficulties, as well
as some of the other Governors, including G. Fred Pearson and George SB.
Campbell. Dalhousie would continue
to grow and be great, Mr. Justice Rogers predicted.

R. M. Fielding, of the graduating
class, an Arts graduate of Dalhousie,
proposed the first toast of the evening,
to Canada, in eloquent language, in
which he briefly touched on some of the
chief features of Canadian history and
her part in the Great War. His address and that of G. P. Flavin, who replied, were of a high order and brought
out some lofty sentiments, which caused several of the subsequent speakers
to ‘congratulate the two young orators.

John F. MacNeill, of the second
year, proposed a toast to the Ladies.
This is generally regarded as a difficult
toast for mere men to handle, but not so
at this banquet, for Mr. MacNeill’s
speech, and that of Prof. Smith, who
responded, were up to the high standard
of the others, humorous at times but serious and eloquent at others. No ladies
were present, however, to hear all the
good things said about them.

Col. Mackay was the proposer of the
last toast of the night, ‘‘Our Guests,’’
and his address, though brief, the hour
being late, was all that was exp
and that is something, for Col. Mackay
at various times and places has made a
name for himself, at least among Dalhousians, as an orator. |
Mr. Justice Mellish replied in
humorous vein. The time was about
midnight and this was one speech
which did not suit the gathering
it was all too short, notwith
the hour, and his hearers would have
stayed for a long time to listen to some
of Mr. Justice Mellish’s stories. They
might even stand for a lecture in law.
‘Tt was not e that Mr. Justice Russell woul
: to be detained in

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

take a broader view of world affairs,
Better methods of administration of
justice, he said, was not a wide enough
sphere for a lawyer’s mind, although
that was infinitely wider than the sphere
in which many were working.

Mr. Justice Chisholm was called upon, and, after congratulating the
speakers and those responsible for the
success of the banquet, he proposed a
toast to the Law Students, on behalf of
whom Col. Mackay expressed thanks.

Basil Courtney, of the graduating
class, was down on the program for
two solos. He was so well received that
he sang four.

A. L .Chipman, vice-president of
Dalhousie Law Society, was toastmaster, filling the position admirably.
The success of the banquet and the fact
that it was held at all was largely due
to Col. Mackay and Mr. Chipman.

MEDICAL NOTES

(Continued from Page Four)
reached proved somewhat inhospitable,
and the nearest they got to kissing the
sacred stones was the front door. This
reference is to the Green Lantern, and
it seems strange that Mr. Hart should
so far forget the percentage of his custom due to University students, as to
shut his doors to them on their night of
victory. This is not the first time this
has occurred, and it will not be forgotten in a hurry.

Manager Acker put his ungracious
neighbor to shame, however, when he
not only invited the crowd inside to
give the odd yell, but went so far as to
put on a special reel for them, in which
such celebreties as Blub MacKay and
G. K. Smith were duly noted and applauded. — |

Warmed by this show of friendship,

the gang proceeded to the Tarry Inn:

where the doors were not closed, and
the inner man was given much needed

bath. Somewhat miserable attempts at.
songs were made and an equally miser
able attempt at a speech by the ubiquitous Richardson, but it all meant pga
ebration anyway and the boys returned

home with. full of cheers, hearts
full of happiness and brains full of bull

>

as usual, Selah!

   

 . ced ee ee
gg aes eee

ba +
o

 

 

J. A. McDONALD F "IAN 0 &
419 Barrington Street, Halifs

, i
‘ -_ i ’ ane
i , s 4
a A. ake
re
>

See fh ae in
" j . - . aif i J ve ; r Shee 7
cae + o 7, i sy: 4 M
ot es * on \: we Sey ae Mero A : T t
,%* ci cedAL Mee Male oe . ft *
a Fy - - ‘ ‘ ‘ : Wil
Talis Lf 3 I ; ve / i’
f ’ ' fad - oe + } M }
Oe es ae ee 10 iis a
a ' fa he a ee ; | adie Bl
a = Ne TPs “ol Fe a 7
" ae Wikatetagesthaly a ee ee. = CI eee ere
4 Fs Dee es Aa aN 2 let hace ka ae ne
TT ere ; oa? a | ee: ) FA.
; eas ty ta kee, died = asl C
rs di t

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
PHONE LORNE 58

Cut Flowers, Deunstante
and all Floral Work

CLIMO|

ART PHOTOGRAPHER
501 BARRINGTON STREET

See our New Styles in
College Photographs.
Special Prices to All Students. '
Phone Sackville 1395 for Appointment.

 

¥

ALPHA, BETA

Rapa = th eae = ig a

won’t you learn the Alphabet from a music .

dealers’ text book. It starts like hiss
A :

Pianos, Accordeons,
Auto Harp Bugles,
Cremonaphones, Cornet, Cellos,

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC.
And so on, every letter represented. Everything in
musical goods from a Piano to a Jewsharp.
Call and inspect our Goods before going elsewhere.

  
    
  
  

    
 
  
   

   

od hae 7 Pee eo 4 #, i iy a a
tik 7 y yr, E a |

ory * ae
Fe a), Vs i
* " = Ness = : bar why
¥ sf} Jom 7 > is
fed Fe Ahies 7 .
ra) F a oi

   

i}
ual
‘
a

  

ee
