eas

ae

cae einai inant car Ee as ES FRanes ah Se ren
a a” Ar . Pri +s

  

 

 

FOUNDED 1869

 

 

 

Vol. LIV.

The Dalbouste Gazette

Founded 1869 |
Issued Weekly - - - ~- One Dollar Per Year

EDITOR -.- - - + «= J. GORDON FOGO
| Associate Editors

Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean
| s Juanita O’Connor OD. C. oun
: fee . Callan M. M.
A. Creighton, B.A. R. R. Dalgleish
P. M. Cassidy

Sports Kditor - - - - - H, EB. Read, B. A.

; Special Reporters

A. C. Milner - D. R. Webster, B.A.

Overseas Correspondent - - q.:A- Dunlop, B.A.
Staff Artists
| Miss Roee Leslie C. W. Currie

BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.

129 Spring Garden Road

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable to the Business Siarker

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

       
    
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

%, + aor

it eee & upon ws. Girlatnse
“vacation nie very near, too, but the aver
age-student sees not the vacation but
through a haze of textbooks, so

tion papers, pens, ink an e accou
is en of the winter tests. When
ey are all over, and he has found that
108 eet differed little from those
risen: irae.

ora

Jay season. i Comes wishes
1 Ya tha drasnindtions and the

   

 

 

aT kw ae

re e ‘eat Ms Sgt!

bogs Onna p ,
a ANY) A a ohh
- , 5 ae ae Fi ae ea a ee
er re m9 a iP > FA ; i} ;
ee. = id
Fost

mi
ae

;
we

p last issue before vacation.

aan a

s 7 t =e | we et
m i , . ©
aye r re is : J ei at
tae . & fs och * a te eo ie) wet
dgitt¢ i Be aia ar eee OU Ae at
ae a. t, x. Ae 29 we pith? ® 42 ah ee. ae
Ff ‘ 6p 2Tr ayes . a Fay * |, =
Het ed) at fF ee ea. i a 7 5 2
' am ; . rts = * e*
a oe ony ‘on
a. oy ALS

HALIFAX, N. 8., DECEMBER 6, 1922

profession which gives all but. receives
little or no material recognition, much
might here be said. He was a faithful

worker for Dalhousie, particularly along

Alumni lines, though he never sought
the limelight. And thus two Dalhoussians have gone.

Two schedules of statistics are submitted this week. One, an analysis of
the students attending colleges on the
Maritime Provinces in Arts and Science
this term, gives a clear idea of the proportion of the field now covered by Dalhousie as compared with her contemporaries. The other, which reveals the
remarkable growth of this university
during the past five years, is laden with
information to the practical mind.
These tables are particularly interesting just at present. ‘The representative
committee on University Federation
meets in the city ‘early next week, and
all college men look forward eagerly to
the result of the conference.

Tt is with pleasure

that Miss Roberta Forbes Dent. 724)
has succeeded. inthe literary competition and is now entitled to the coveted
“‘T)’’ awarded to those who reach the
required standard. Miss Forbes has
been for two years a valued member of
the Gazette staff; one whose efforts
were invariably of value and found
space in these columns.

 

‘

In order that the staff may have a
brief respite in which to prepare for the
Christmas examinations, this will be the

 

 
 

 
 

‘ A
‘ 5
yes i ak

and Don McInnes, ’23, while Sid. Gil
, we announce ©

; ‘Teak, At oe conclu

No, 20

ee

MEDS WON DEBATING CUP

The defeat of the Arts debating
team last Wednesday evening gave to
the Medical faculty of the university
the honours in debating for the year,
and in consequence the Sodales Debating Cup donated this term by kind
friends of the college rests in their possession till next year. i

‘The subject of the debate was ‘‘Resolved that the right of appeal from —
Canadian courts to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council should be ~
abolished.’”’ This is the question which ~
will be the subject of the intercollegiate
debate between Acadia and Dalhousie
this spring as a consequence much interest centred about the last of the interfaculty series. For Arts, upholding ~
the resolution were Fred Bissett, "OS"

 

“'

christ and P. A. Creelman, argued for
the negative.
That much thought and considera- — 4
tion had been given by the debaters to
the subject. was. evident and the presen. _
tation of the four speches left little to
be desired. ‘The rebuttals were especially good and abounded in sound logi- —
cal reasoning clothed in simple convne-—
ing language. Judging by the standard of the debates held this year there
is every indication that the intercolle- a
giate team will measure up to those ‘
that have represented Dalhousie in the
past. e
The judges of the debate were Professors R. McG. Dawson, G. E. Wilson ~
and Rev. §. Bonnell. These gentlemen
are the members of the Dalhousie In- re
tercollegiate Debating Committee and
after the debate expressed themseh ves
well pleased with the propect for a 0
cessful year in this genera
college activities.
two to one in icone a
above, of Medicine.
The audience was excep
large and listened with the Keenest
rom and best of d 1 to * te "

BY

“

    
         
     
    

     
 

  
    
     
     
  

    
    
 
    

rt
j (i
bal "ms a +.
7 7 v1)
i a

 
 
 

   

 
  
  
 
 

   

  
 
 

- ‘ 7 $
Tot, as re
J t
7 : Ps
‘ ; wl : L . — : -*
§ fi " js ae
7 in > ial i ‘+ t
+ i +a *
4 at Hy a } i. ¢

   

» Ripe Bh

 

arent
a

et
a he

 

RY ERE Og Mee tea

f

a Se ee

ite Plant Visited

Engineers Conducted Through Ou
Works and Automatic Telephone
Eachange

 

On Saturday, November 18th, the
Engineers made a tour of inspection to
the Imperial Oil Company’s- plant at
Imperoyal, and on the following Saturday visited the ‘‘Lorne’’ Automatic
Telephone Exchange at the corner of
North and Agricola Streets.

On arrival at the former place, a
policeman demanded all the matches in
the party. ‘Some of the boys were loath
to part with these very necessary
articles, but under the stern eyes of the
law finally came across.

After a little delay Mr. B. G. Wood,
Asst. Chemist, took charge of the group
and conducted them about the plant.
Beginning at the lab. in the basement
of the General Offices the route led all
over the works. Mr. Wood explained
things very clearly, beginnng at the frst
of each process and workng through to
the end. The boys, headed by Prof.
Copp, asked numerous questions,, all of
which were satisfactorily answered.

About 12.30 Bell’s Bus stood ready to
carry the crowd to Dartmouth, and
after claiming their matches, and trying
to convince the cop that they had given
him, at least, twice the amount they received from, him, were presently whisked away to the berth of the good ship
** Halifax.’’

On the 25th, the ‘‘Lorne’’ Exchange
had its turn of inspection by the prying
eyes of the prospective Engineers.
Under the protective care of ‘‘Doug’’
the boys arrived at the Hxchange at
10.30 A. M.

Mr. C. L. Frost, the wire chief, divided the party into two groups, placing
one group in the care of Mr. T. D. Perry,
the switchman on duty, and taking the
other himself. Under the guidance of
these gentlemen the two parties were

shown all the mysteries of an Automatic
Pr  Melephone Exchange. In the basement,

_ where the lead-covered cables enter the
building, the course of the phone wires
was taken up and followed through the
- various instruments, to the last wonder_ ful machine which placed the subscriber
in connection with his party. The un
a canny accuracy with which the ‘‘Selee
‘tors’? worked, and the ingenious ways
~ in which trouble was indicated and cor
fe » rected, were revelations to the students.

The Automatic Telephone Exchange is
4 -* wonderful development of the elec“trical field.

Society wishes to thank ’ the

: ¢ F eials of the Oil Plant and the Tele
for their kindness in.

¢ pl

 

Vee ye Ne

THE DALHOUSIE GAZE

 

IN MEMORIAM

Hon. H. H. Wickwire, B.A., LL.B.

It is with the deepest sympathy for
the members of the bereaved family
that the Gazette records the death at
his home in Kentville of the Honourable Harry H. Wickwire.

Mr. Wickwire who at the time of his
death was fifty four years of age was
one of Dalhousie’s galaxy of brilliant
graduates of the old days. Coming to
Dalhousie as a graduate in Arts from
Acadia he chose as. his profession the

 

Study of Law and after a brilliant re
cord at Dalhousie Law School he received his LL. B. degree in 1896 and
immediately became a member of the
Bar of Nova Scotia.

That his abilities were early perceived is shown by the fact that two
years before he graduated he was elected to represent King’s County in the
Provincial Assembly. He was then 25
years of age and was the youngest
M. P. P. this Province has ever had.
Since that time, with the exception of

one year, he ably represented his. con
stituency in the Provincial Parliament.
In 1918 Mr. Wickwire was appointed a
Minister of the Crown and took over the
newly formed Department of Highways
which he had under his direction until
the time of his death.

Mr. Wickwire’s passing which was
very sudden was caused through heart
disease. During the week proceeding he
was a visitor in the city on departmental
business and returning home Saturday

he appeared to be enjoying good health.

However, Sunday morning his life was
ended as he sat reading.

He leaves to mourn their loss a wife
and five children. Of these Alice was a
graduate in Arts in 1919; Eleanor and
Harry are also ex-students.

J. H. Trefry, B.A. 1895, M.A. 1898

A large circle of Dalhousians will mourn the
death of the late James Hartley Trefry. A capable
teacher, a true friend and a Christian gentleman,
his life and work have been an inspiration’ to many
and all who knew him will feel a deep sense of loss.

I have known Mr, Trefry since 1807 when he
was appointed principal of Morris St. School. He
was a strict but just disciplinarian, He always
had the respect and admiration of all his students
and the warm affection of those of us who knew
him well, As a teacher he was accurate and
thorough in his methods. I remember that he instituted the practice of debating at Morris St. “

 

and the history of Canada began to be a living issue —
for us boys a we sought to justify or condemn the 9) eee
e Company teacher of nary who oe the o” : and se a
Bh rend for tye svemier Sore og ea kee eae

a4 a +54 ' fon : geste: “nay 4

hs 6 a Pe

pr alsin: ‘al oe en ‘ % a, i ie 8
; 4 , a te = gel - ee ri j ue

 

 

Fe onar er ae ie ;
t 00h fone eae ‘ a 7 ie a hd i
s ae ~ Bale Ey Me ! eps me a Wey
‘ bid +f - :
.

 

 

to play golf a few years ago. His work with the
Cadets was a labour of love. He felt that he could
thus play. a real part in ‘the great struggle and it
was no small part, for the work of the ex-cadets
from Halifax Academy was truwy magnificent,

One of Mr. Trefry’s principsl interests was the
Dalhousie Alumni Association. He held every office in the Association and for many years he served
on the executive, I think that all who have been
identified with the Association in recent years. will
agree with me when I say that he was the most
devoted and conscientious worker in that group that
kept the Association alive during the seven lean
years. The present position of Dalhousie is in no
small degree due to the patient and loyal work of
men like James H. Trefry.

Mr. Trefry’s greatest contribution. is the influence of an upright and generous character upon
the lives of many hundreds of pupils and upon a

wide circle of freinds, JOHN E, READ.

The STUDENTS’ HELPER

REMINGTON

PORTABLE

TYPEWRITERS
Simple—Compact—Complete.

Standard Keyboard
Just like the Big Machines.

A. MILNE FRASER

157 HOLLIS STREET HALIFAX, N, 8.

| UNIVERSITY HALL

'~MEN’S RESIDENCE

| There are still a few good rooms
available for students. Rate
$8.75 per week. Application
should be made immediately to
‘the Manager, Mr. W. Nisbet, or
to any of the members of the
Residence or House Committees.
j

are pleased to announce that we arein
' @ position to fill your requirements,

 

 
 

   
  
 

ae

* I ere Pe ee
fh ’ ay eee gg, i
r ead.

THE DALHOUSIE CAZETTE

University Hall

Who was the party who helped him
self to Dr. Cameron’s woodpile? That
is the question agitating the minds of
all grate-owners at the present moment.
Dr. Cameron, who had a choice collection of faggots segregated at the bottom
of the fire escape, claims that the said
pile. disappeared very mysteriously.
Being a great admirer of Sherlock
Holmes, instead of reporting his loss to
the police, he decided to do some sleuthing on his own account. By a simple
process of elimination, he was soon on
the trail. Only chaps who possessed
grates, he reasoned, would desire the
kindling. And it hardly seemed probable that some one from a far part of
the Hall wuold be the culprit. Therefore, it was very likely..... but
‘‘Simmy’’ says he should worry.

All of which goes to show, if there’s
a nigger in the woodpile, he’ll be discovered as soon as the wood is removed.

Since Mr. Stirling’s arrival, the boys
have taken a great interest in the Gym,
a building which has been hitherto only
an inartistic ornament, But now it is
becoming the popular resort. Baseball,
basketball, and boxing classes are drawing the crowds that formerly collected
in the basement of the Forrest Building.
Already much valuable material has
been discovered. Among the boxers of
note, is one Clarence Morrison. He
certainly pushes a nasty glove, or at
least that’s what Zinck says, and he
ought to know.

The few who do not attend the Gym,
are forced to fall back on the theatres
for their amusement. ‘‘Dumbells”’
proved very popular indeed; probably
there was no one who missed it. Saturday night’s performance was under
the patronage of an all-Truro party,

th emphasis on the ‘‘party’’. Nothing less than a box would hold them.
A theatre box, you know.

Billiards is still going as strong as
ever, the scratch tournament being a
fine success. The favorites were Bayer,
Graham and Hull, the winner of the
handicap tournament. There is no
doubt but that Eddie Bayer takes the
cat’s vest, when it comes to a billiard

tournament. He was so far u in the
air that he couldn’t even kee feet
on the clouds. Hull and Gra play
ed off in the finals, Jim winning by a
au ee eae The game was
pent elle w and a great one to
Sink dae tas bid tae P

a table in the Hal, Jim Graham
ee oe

   
 

days), Dr.

    

: name.—The Mouth Mirror.
‘ ost— One, lsge sized pair of red

a pert 4 ear? OWN, Lay

  

WHAT HAPPENED IN FIVE YEARS

Total Income
Date Students Hees Kixpenditure Kindowment
1918 298 24,000 72,000 31,000
1919 344 27,000 94,000 sae
1920 621 61,000 125,000 38,000
1921 677 84,500 139,000 Subp
1922 712 95,000 175,000 89,000
1923 100,000 x 185,000 x 95,000 x

790

x Kstimated.

During the last 5 years Dalhousie has added or has under construction

equipment ‘to the value of $1,200,000,

Additions to Library ..,..... $ 55,000 In addition to above g]
Simall Arte Bldg, ... 4.3.6.6. 175 ‘000 Possesses: )
University Hall ............. 160,000
Medical Science Bldg ........ 150,000 Forrest Hall (value) ...... $250,000
Public Health Centre ........ 275, 000 Science Bldg. (value) . 300,000
MemiPeOls FARE) oc kv sudan cus sen ae 000 Library (value) .......... 100,000
Equipment and Grounds ...... 35 ‘000 60 Acres of Land (value).. 500,000
$1,200,000 $1,150,000

Kndowment approximately $1,500,000

 

named. Kven the players are agreed on
that point. Nevertheless, it has proven
very popular, and has given even the
poorest man a chance to play in a tournament. A. C. M.,

DENTAL “RUBBER DAM”

The well known Rubber Dam which
everyone become acquainted with upon
their first visit to the Dental Infirmary,
is by no means of Dutch origin or in
any way related to such dams as Rotterdam, Potsdam, or Amsterdam. In
fact the word originated not a bit later
than 3000 B. C., long before the sound
of the big bass drum had been heard on
this side of the Atlantic.

To no less a personage than our
esteemed friend Perey Howe (who. is
still responsible for the blackest' spots in
Dentistry) goes the honor of having
coined this word. . It would appear that
Percy was at the time operating upon
no less a personage than Noah Goodyear,
an ancestor of the present famous Goodyear of Rubber fame. Rumor has it

that Goodyear was not tired (as he

always is these days), but merely flat (as
he ofiten is in these: da s), therefore he
was not full (as he could not be in these
owe had for the third time
tried to adjust a molar clamp to a tooth
and for the third time had lost it is three
fathoms of saliva, when old Goodyear,
stretching a point, yelled ‘‘Rubber’’ and

whooped ‘‘Dam.” But it saved
sie das Pere y grabbed the inspiration,
le we as a te of rubber, punched it,

slipped it over’ the tooth and forever
dammed

backed the floods—hence the

ae Mr.

  

 

Pine Hill Post

The ‘‘gang’’ was much pleased to
receive a ‘long letter from John Dunlop
this week. He was in a reminiscent
mood and seems to think that Exeter is
not nearly so good as old Pine Hill.
exhorts all his old friends to write to
him and like the Matrimonial Bureau
promises faithfully to answer all letters.

Another visitor this week is Syd. Bonnell, Up to the time of writing rays of
light have reached us from his knees.
If he stays with us fora couple of weeks
we will be able to see if he is getting
bald.

‘‘Coming events east their shadows
before’. Some of the shadows we 3ee
plainly. The shadows of exams. assume
many different forms. The first perhaps
is uneasiness. The most unobserving
person would know that something out
of the usual was about to take place,
George Smith is now staying in one
night a week and Murray Kmeneau,

fearful of being plucked in elementary:

Latin, never leaves his room.

The next is gloom.
spirit of the first month is gone. No new
jokes are heard and even Frank Arechi
bald, the irrepressible, has an anxious.

expression.

He

.

The rollicking —

Then there is work. The electric light

bill in Pine Hill almost doubles in the
month of December. Bill MecOdrum has
a brand new pair of glasses, the optician
guaranteeing him a high first in every
subject,

Then the shadows-of the days beyond
the Exams.; Christmas, that best of all —
seasons. Some of the boys are going to —
Toronto and some to other places’ or i

_ the holidays, but most are going home,
The boys at Pine Hill all join 7 ia m j aad ‘

ing their friends a very, very M

Bic: Jes, Sa 8: Na tae
Oe en hi i 4 te Paty: 3
ee . 4 a btn. if ‘
: pe ”

         
  
  
f~

ee
Pty i)

eee)"
‘7 ae

  
  

feta ‘national mind, for whose development
we are striving today. But the peoples


“ ; '
’ At :
,

7
ey 8
: ie ||

,
“>

Wn ah

ROT. ha he STA oe ¥ = Hu my
; ; " wat 5 ‘ra, - y ue } r
te oe ak

UPN RE

 

STUDENTS ATTENDING MARITIME PROVINCE COLLEGES
IN ARTS AND SCIENCE—1922

N. B. N. 8. | F
Dalhousie 23 382 |
Acadia 5D 187 |
Kings 14 50 |
St. F. X. 25 155 |
Mount A. 93 106 |
,. Ba -B., 133 + |

343 880

E. I. | Nfld. | Elsewhere | Total
a eS 2 463
“ 15 257
5 3 6 78
1 3 12 196
10 21 15 245
- 7 3 | 136
43 35 id 1375

LS

MUNRO LECTURE

Masterly Exposition of Avms and
Objects of League of Nations.

 

 

Professor H. F. Munro, holder of the
Eric Dennis Memorial Chair of Government and Political Science in Dalhousie
University, delivered on the evening of
Nov. 27, at the School for the Blind, an
address on ‘‘The League of Nations’’.
Dr. A. 8. MacKenzie, President of the
University, acted as chairman of the
meeting, to which he referred as being
under the joint auspices of the Canadian
Club of Halifax and Dalhousie University.

Diokessor Munro having referred to
the world-wide desire for peace, sketched briefly a description of the national
system of governments, of the ‘‘family
of nations’’, whose commplicated interrelations form the great problem of ‘‘international relations’. Speaking of the

‘balance of power”—under which sys-.

tem Louis X1V, Napoleon and Germany
threw Europe into turmoil—Professor
Munro stated that it offered only two
alternatives,—the successful rise of an
all-dominant military state, e.g., Rome,

or a united war of all other states to

haul down the oppressor, e.g., the late
war. |
Proceeding to speak of the many at
tempts to find an alternative ‘to the
«balance of power’’,—King Henry’s

“Great Design’’, the schemes of Kant
and Ste. Pierre, and finally Czar Alex
“under’s ‘Holy Alliance’’, the lecturer

noted the reasons for their several

failures. The last and most serious attempt at inter-national co-operation, the

‘‘Holy Alliance’, failed because it overlooked the tremendous influences just

then arising in Nationalism and Democ
racy. |
The International organization of

Red Cross Societies in 1864, marked the

first stage in the evolution of the inter
  
 

of the world demand that today
‘step be taken. Cannot a League of

ae ations lead a ign to prevent war
i ; ’

s greatest

 
 
 
 

What has been done? A League of
Nations was set up by the Treaty of
Versailles, to have Geneva as its headquarters. The aims of the League are
very definite, very simple,—‘‘to promote
international co-operation and to achieve
international peace and security”.

The League machinery consists of a
Council, an Assembly and many Commissions—on, e.g., disarmament, mandates, protection of minorities and
scores of other problems. Perhaps of
paramount importance is the International Court of Justice—something that
the world has long and sorely needed.
This promises to be one of the most
helpful instruments for peace yet fashioned for mankind.

In conclusion, having dealt with the
several more important objections advanced against the establishment of the
League, Professor Munro advised ‘‘ ‘If
you know of a better ’ole, go to it !’ We
are living in an epoch unprecedented.
What will happen next no man can foretell. ‘The tents are struck and the great
caravan of humanity is on the march,’—
are we marching toward uplands of international peace and amity, represented in my judgment by the League ot

Nations ?’’

  
  
       
   

 
  

CORRESPONDENCE

» (The Gazette accepts no responsibility for views expressed m this
column,

Correspondents are requested no
to. eaceed three hundred words.)

t

To The Editor:

A few days ago I happened to pick
up a copy of the Gazette, of some ate
last winter, and my attention was attracted by an article on rinks. e
issue to which I allude had, presumably,
been published shortly after the fracas
with the Arena management, for it referred to the fact that there were in existence, in the city, at that time, other

voiced that by next winter we woul
have a rink of ourown.

believe this to vi

make?

rinks than the Arena. The hope ry |

Lah Be TTY ae PEE TST RD SP RRRT ERP ERTL ced aa ye ert. tel Site i? |
Veet ee TA) TL ee ee ee ea,

* t. * - 7 Me eee le a tals yieig y

i ind Wrote eee yee Me § Aino tie

" 5
; — > eh Ow i‘
™ 4
#4 r ‘

WUE Le ee? BaF
~ ! } ry ou Ab as
wa A ra H nh P, rit ae

A 2 raul ; si4
St a ‘ wil J oe

Studley this winter? If we are to have
a rink this year, now is the time to consider the problem, now, the time to make
our plans. The various athletic clubs
of the city are already having hockey
workouts. Surely, if thoughts of
hockey are afoot it is not too soon to
think about a rink—and ice.

A considerable sum of money was expended this year on the athletic field at
Studley where two of the best football
games of the season were witnessed. Is
this field going to be idle all winter?
It seems to me—of course, I may be
wrong—but it does seem that this would
be an ideal place for a rink, The ground
is flat and level, and the situation is
excellent. At very little expense it
should be possible to have a good sheet
of ice here.

There may be numerous objections to
this plan, but of one thing I feel quite
sure; that is, that, the field would suffer
no injury from it. Last winter the
Wanderers had a rink on _ their field.
The field is in as good condition this
year as ever, and it is very probable
that they will flood it again tihs season.

Isn’t there somebody who will ‘start
something?’ Isn’t there somebody
with some. ideas, or some suggestions to
Let us begin to plan and work
NOW, so that the rink—our rink—can
be in operation after the vacation.

LECTURE BY PROFESSOR READ.

The Aurora Club, at its regular weekly luncheon, held on Tuesday of last
week, was addressed by Professor John
FE. Read on the League of Nations. As
the only alternative suggested to instigate the periodic wars which have devastated the world, Professor Read approached the subject from the standpoint of a father rather than as a business man or historian. The establishment of the League, based on Christian
ideals, was, he said, the only means by
which the children of the present generation could be protected from the terrible experiences which \accompany
modern wars. 7

\

Changed from
Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.
—— TWO STORES —————

 

 
  
    

#
=

a

“9 =
an fy

Ah ic Or We gel PEL Tae "nas Tatas it wy = = oe i. a
eae ae a i > a sy ay Mare iva ‘ ; 4 ak
j * we \! me ny ae ‘ ai . A oie . oye Retilig, a a 4 "4 cS ,

 
 

Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd. |

aD

*s

Literary “D” Standing

i ae ON Co's Udy bo 0040 6 o's baeens Kae ee es babe 18
ey LON. Cb eves dcleciaseeteneeanvenea 17
EE Ci on diel ease cedeacekdceeduceweaeas 16
SE EE £ h ccd ks 4 vdagcdosdi sc ccudatnewids 16
NE 5s 4494 bay asi bbe ae 0s tasmeene sees 14
et ua. cnsaen ods ce pen eawe ie 14
i es ceadedebsteaneeneus oh 13
eet MU s'e's bce vaensieucuene Visa tees 11
SII 2 Migsinsh-dlbiapbidin-enddkbbbsiiin Wkaceedcns 11
5 cine Godw ahs d i004 eeiekk caeked eee 10
i Oe  o0 $45 9.4% 040046 bddS bE OO DERE OS 9
Se Eo SGN Vahkewedé Cake CRewasehe de Ceade 7
Big SOTION oc cocccdadiccrcessee ceuTeveees 6
a I yk ees os fee eae 66 tha dea oh 6
ih SL: ccd ask bas cbaaGded 06 baled cebews 6
ee ee Se «i dc ne Wes we dw ¥e ek ds woes 5
A , MeDomald wicscsscvecveccccccccccvcess 4
I cont tue - wbic ewe vec dudidd tases 4
ee os sete ce sheen sed ede Viveeden es 4
ER RS rT ee ee roy eae ea 4
ee ND Fe Kee Kkwh eee eves endete Cbebeess 3
rer ee earns Sere 3
a, PSR PP Pree e sa? Thee re eter ore 3
Mn vew'es Chea bee shee ee 8004 che ebRa 3
ria NE KOS cp evesee dea beeeseunveneeuads 3
SN SUR ER aOtASh CRORE Ths Fi Ree OTT EOE ES 3
i Ci MEE bass 660 os ebs 0s VebeDe eb Cee eees 2
ENCE ere ee Ure Tree eta 2
Re ER Sor rere eee erry Se Te 2
Se PE i Sick vied V es Gales Geeae veaseeas 2
SS UN: 9 6-6 bod ese sees edaseccecsbens dt 2
POP Cert T core TeeT ELT rer ce eree 2
i EN ceereerrr ree ried betes vemddeccees 2

“THE FOLLIES OF 1922”

Mr. Ziegfeld has nothing on Howard Hamilton when it comes to bringing
out, talent, for at Glee Club on Monday
night in the Gymnasium, all that was
worthy of mention at Pine Hill was exhibited. Mr. Hamilton has had some
experience with concert troupes while
overseas and was quite competent to
handle the ‘‘Follies’’.. The opening
chorus by the company “Sing, sing, why
shouldn’t we sing’’ displayed every diversity of not only voice but costume
and was loudly applauded by an appreciative audience, while Mr. Gallagher
and Mr. Shean, highly parodied by a
budding young poet from the worthy institution, revealed the vocal ability of

- two athletes of no mean renown. The

pantomime 2d some of the difficulties encountered by those seeking to
win the admiration of the fair sex, evidently those of the caste have had some
experience along those lines for they

showed what wonders a stick of Spear
mint can perform, as well as many other
original mene f achieving the end.
‘da FLamiito al | oLogue

   
  

 
 
 

0

  

4 rey ri TAG i 3 Ty he ry ry thir i? TU 2 re i<_ : ’ ° =. rr err r
’ 7 nate ate pies : ' : ‘ . > E .
7 (40 > DA : 4. Pot eid ? ' ¢
; Lag Fia'¥) pou Pe : ha Pad ee
ree ee ag Py - i F / 3 x ° ing x n .
ye , : a
ee

 

GENERAL GYMNASIUM CLASS SCHEDULE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

re —_—, Tuesday Wednesday saa Fridays Saturday
Engineers 5—5,30 a o—5.30 aietisile: > dileaomes

Dents 10—llam. —— —_ ——_ 101

Law 330-430 —— 3.30—4.30 . 7
Medicine I ———— 12—1 12—1

Med. It ——- —— 10—11 11—12
Med. , III 12—1 ———. — —- 11—12
Med. IV 11—12 enemies

Arts and Science—2.30—3.30 every da |
; y except Saturda
Badminton Club—Monday 8.30—10, Satetday 830-10,

 

songs of years ago, as well as a few
modern ones.

Quite the event of the evening worthy of mention was supplied by Harry
Langwith, when as the ‘‘Dancing
Vamp” he lassooed the hearts of the
Co-eds by tripping the light fantastic
with such graceful movements that even
the most conceited was brought to earth
with a mighty fall to find that she no
longer shone brightly before the Terpischorean Deity.

Many famous personages were placed in the lime light by their excursion
across the Red Sea (C), a feat having
never taken place since ancient times
yet gracefully performed by those quite
aes * the art.

e finale by the entire compan
brought the program to a does, after
which, a few college songs were practised. Then the chairs were cleared
away and dancing was indulged in until 10 p. m. ,

For many reasons, this has been the
most successful Glee Club meeting for a
long time; the ‘‘Gym’’ proved an ideal
place for such a meeting, the college
spirit seemed to be present; every one
did his best to make the program a suc
 

cess ; and lastly the new Regime that the
Glee Club has introduced seems to
meet the needs of a purely Dalhousie
social evening. The boys of Pine Hill
are to be congratulated on the loyal support given to their undertaking and
when the other groups are given an-opportunity to display the ability possessed by them we hope the members will
rally to support their own cause as did
Pine Hill. "a

Norre—Owing to lack of space it was found
necessary to hold over this account of Glee Club
proceedings which would have appeared last week,
—Ra.

ADDRESSED GYROS.

Professor H. L. Stewart was heard at
the Gyro Club luncheon on Wednesday
last, when he delivered an address on
the League of Nations. Dr. Stewart
handled this difficult topic in his usual
able manner. His characterization of the
League as ‘‘a small but valuable world
parliament” being particularly apt.

Now that daughter has gone to college,

Mother is in grave danger of getting

out of practice as a lady’s maid.

GIFT SUGGESTIONS

uali
ear Book.

and reasonable in

A comprehensive assortment of attractive Gifts, rare in
prices, are to be found in Birks

We make School and Class Pins, submitting sketches on
request, giving an estimate of cost before proceeding with

the work.

A Copy of the Birks Year Book will be mailed on request. |

Diamond

  

Goldsmiths
Silversmiths

Henry Birks & Sons Limited

493497 Barrincton Street

  
  
 
  
   

 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

 

>

a ae! 5 7
> L oe ee :
1 Vit cate a ' aR
Y rif vy aT)

WHY USE THE GYMNASIUM?

Systematic physical training is the
surest tonic for body and mind, and
while this may be an accepted theory,
some are reluctant to put it into practice. Your books and classes may be so
fascinating that in your desire for intellectual development, the physique is
neglected. The result may be a breakdown in health.

Dr. Gym. can assist you to obtain
a healthy condition. Properly conducted
gymnasium classes will do it for you.
Mass exercises will appeal to you because they offer the best facilities for
a symmetrical development. They provide such a.variety of movements that
all the muscles get an equal development
without any tendency to an ungainly
figure, The exercises can be adapted to
meet the requirements of every one,
from the weak individual to the trained
athlete. They do not involve the use of
any special apparatus. The execution
of mass exercises does not involve the
risk of sprains or accidents that one is
exposed to in many of the more strenuous games.

The gym. class schedule appearing in
this issue, provides two classes each
week for any student wishing to take
physical training under competent leadership. |

- Boxing, Wrestling and Fencing.

On account of the numerous groups
wishing tuition in boxing, wrestling and

fencing the instruction period will be
thirty minutes.

Basketball.

The first and second teams, as well as
several class teams, have commenced
practice in preparation for the intertaculty and city leagues.

‘The, Ladies: have ‘commenced their
class series.

Hockey.

The hockey players have started
training in proper style and are using
the asium for their daily grind,
with & little road work for good measure,

Badminton and Volleyball.

On Tuesday and Friday evenings the
gym. is a busy place, when a large number of the professors and students turn
out to play Badminton and volleyball.

Gymnastics and Athletics.
Athletes can improve their form during the winter by indoor practice and
thus save valuable time and energy in
aration for the outdoor donate.

    

————$ —_—. ae

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

RS Meee eT eee ee ee ey
7 ; Ws ; ba ” 7 Vs ; 7

 

LEON FLUCK

Will be with the Tiger hockey team again
this year.

 

DALHOUSIE JUNIOR
RUGBY TEAM, 1922.

John G. Laurence, F. J. Hebb, J. Lanrence, Mitchell, J. McNicol, C. KE. Lewis,

C. Morrison, D. Clouston, A. Dunlop, J.

M. Sutherland, Geo. Sutherland, Ivan
Mader, H. L, Livingstone, M. MacAulay,
D. MeGeer, A. Tupper, P. Knox, W. McCurdy, N. McQuarrie.

TRICOLOR WINS CANADIAN
FOOTBALL TITLE

Queen’s University Rugby Team are
Canadian champions. In a great struggle at Kingston, Saturday, they defeated the Edmonton Eskimos 13 to 1. The
Prairie boys had the better of the first
haif which ended one to nothing in their
favor. After that Queen’s seemed to
find themselves, and there was no holding them from then on.

The Freshettes defeated The Sophettes in a closely contested game, the
first of the Interclass Basketball, by a
score of 13 to 11.

Senior Arts girls defeated the basketball team from the Forrest Building,
score 15 to 13, after overtime play.

 

Freshman in History Class.—‘‘ Luther
was chiefly famous for his Diet of
Worms. It was then that he said:
‘‘God help me, I can take no other
course.”

 

Railway Tramp: ‘‘What’s your
job?’’

Murray Emeneau: “‘I am a Rhodes

Scholar.” —
Railway Tramp: ‘Hah! I’m a
Hoad’s Scholar myself.”

ates | Elected Dal Hockey Captain

Popular Med Will Lead Tgers.
Traming Plans Made
“Fabie” Bates was unanimously elected Captain of Dalhousie hockey team at the meeting of
the hockey executive, held on Thursday, Nov. 29.

“Fabie” is well known throughout the province
to St,

he made both the

as a stellar allround athlete. Returning

Francis Xavier after the war,
football and hockey varsity teams that year. In
1920 he was Captain of the Blue and White’s football team, and in 1921 of their hockey team, He
graduated from St. F. X, in ’21, and came to Dal
to study medicine. Last year he made an excellent

record as halfback on the Tiger Varsity Rugby
Team, and, playing at center, helped the hockey
team win the City League Championship, He is
Secretary of the Dalhousie Medical Society.

Plans for the coming hockey season were also
considered at the meeting. Mr. Stirling, Dal Athletic Director, has taken the candidates for the team
in hand and will devote an hour each evening to
He will

also accompany the team on the Christmas train
putting them into the pink of condition.

ing trip.

Whether this year’s training center will be New
Glasgow, Truro, or Amherst was not decided, but
Manager Charlie Beazley is in communication with
various officials in each of these towns, and will
be able to make a definite announcement in a few
days.

DAL. GIRLS’ BASKETBALL,

The prospect for Dal. Girls’ basketball this year looks promising, as there
are a number of last year’s team still
here, and several of the Freshettes play
exceedingly well.

The inter-Collegiate League this
year, includes Mount Allison, Acadia
and Dal. King’s has unfortunately
dronped out. :

The cun won by the Dal. Girls, last
year. will be played for bv Acadia
and Dal. alone. A schedule has been
nroposed but not definitely decided on.
The/dates are to be announced later.

   
 
  
   
  
 

  
    
  
   
  

Dalhousie Headquarters for
Sporting Goods

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. We can
supply you with everything for Sport
Life. Also Pocket Knives, Razors,
Shaving Supplies.

We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys
and Stockings.

Morton & Thomson

 
 

     
    
  
 
 

 
 

   
 
   
   
     

  
  
  

‘ “ .
7 ; ia ip \

44f nT p ii. &

“f ¥. \ f ey a SS \ - rt 4
Je 4 ~ ae ots PF Rial. eumet Coa?!
. ; } me iad T ; a? \

i aed a v ak’ :

a , a ih - 4 a; ee=— 9
it A i al 4 ath 4

 
   
LEMON EXTRACTS
(By I. M. Tite)

Laugh and grow fat,
Grin and grow thin.
If you know any jokes,
Please send them ‘in.

She (coyly)—Can you drive a ear
with one hand ?
Freshman—No, but I can stop.

Heard at Dinner at Pine Hill the day
after Dumbells.

M.—‘‘ How did you like Marjorie last
night, Ches?’’

O-k-s—* Who—Margaret, you mean?’’

Those young men who sit in the front
seats in lecture rooms may do so from
| force of habit. Boy, Page Mr. Acker.

The sofa sagged in the centre,

The shades were pulled just so,

The family had retired,

The parlor light burned low.

There came a sound from the sofa

As the clock was striking two,

And the freshette slammed her textbook

With a thankful—‘‘ Well, I’m through.”
‘‘How did you manage to get home

so early last night?’’

‘Oh, I had tough luck. I leaned
against her doorbell.’’

Say what you will about your M.A’s
and B.A.’s, it’s usually the P.A.’s who
support them.

 - Prof.—‘‘What would you say, Miss M..,
if the Turks came over and wanted

to make Pictou County inhabitants

in Mohammedans?’’

| Miss M—‘‘Sir, I think that the Turks

i. might have a bad influence on the

country.”’

: QUID?

QO, little bit of ribbon

hs Entwined with ‘lastic round;

ti Y What cause have youths to question
tr In what duty thou art found?

ie Thou art not a flapper’s trade mark,
I is Despite the world’s cold frown;
Thou art merely a necessity
To keep socks from rolling down.
tee? = “So Called Flapper”. F

 

What this college needs is more professors with throat trouble.

-. ©o-ed—The only men I kiss are my
i brothers. _
Diy ee Moe lodge do you belong to 1

 

 

F lazer! fun of Dal. Profs—Leeturaga of Nets.

were 17 vertebra in the spinal column,

 

Ws os a TF ™* = wa, hs kT
’ a

‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

wy a PAA sy esl a RESET TN eee

   

Football Dinner

The annual football banquet was held in the St.
Julien Room at the Halifax Hotel, Saturday evening.
Members of both the first and second teams were present as well as a number of guests. President
Murray Brittain of the D. A. A, C., whose particular delight it is to preside at affairs of this
nature, occupied the chair, and it may be said that
he did not even miss an offside remark,.. His sparkling wit and Séotch' stories were the features of
the evening. Manager C, R. Baxter, Ass. Mgr., G.

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

   

 

  
    

    

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
1283 YOUNG STREET

HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

   

 

    
     
     

R. Forbes, Captain F. L, “Dinty” Moore, Leonard

Fraser, D. “Red’* Sutherland, “Ted” Coster and Chas. penton S. COLWELL. ...+..++seessesseeverens President
NET J. COLWELLis ccc. cccccccecccce Vice-President

Beazley were among those who made short speeches, ca 6 Director

   

Much was heard of the splendid spirit shown by the CYRIL H. COLWELL.... ........+. Secretary-Treasurer
team during the season and a multitude of expressions in appreciation of the efforts of the captain
and manager. The host, as usual, provided an excellent feast and at an early hour the happy students
departed for the Strand Theatre where an impromtu
theatre party was staged. The 1922 football dinner

closed the season in a fitting manner,

NOTICE !

The last of the series of lectures in preparation
for the Toronto Convention of the 8, C. A, will be
held in the Munro Room, Thursday, from 12 noon
to 1 p,m. Prof. Munro wiil speak on “Internationa
  
 

 

 

HIGH QUALITY
NOTE BOOKS

If you want note books with superior
paper and strong binding, we have
we have the best.

A Splendid Loose Leaf Note Book
Complete for 65c.

FAULKNER’S
168 Spring Garden Rd., Halifax

lism’”’,

EXTENSION LECTURES.

Announcement has been made of a
course in extension lectures by Dalhousie to be carried on during the winter. Practically all the professors in
the university are included on the list
and the topics chosen cover a very wide
field. Professor B. C. Hunt is the secretary of the Committee on Extension.

MEDICAL STUDENTS
PLEASE NOTE.

She—‘‘Did you do well in your an
atomy quiz ?’’
He—‘‘Not so much. I said there

 

Moirs Chocolates

the famous confection of Dalhousie
students for generations, because
they are the freshest, have the most
varied fillings, and are covered by
the most delicious eating.

but I find these new ballroom styles have
uncovered a couple more.”? —

 

MOIRS LIMITED, Argyle St.

Elsewhere in this issue will be found
the Literary ‘‘D’”’ standing up to and
including the last number.

 

Achievement! Gauvin & Gentzel

A Savings Bank balance built 18 Spring Garden Road
ee ee er ee Photographers
self-denial will give you greater .

secured without difficulty or
A SPECIALTY

: M's

   
  
