  

  

‘Vol. LIV.

 

 

The Dalbousie Gazette
Founded 1869

Issued Weekly - - - - One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - - J. GORDON FOGO

Associate Editors

Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean
Miss Juanita O’Connor OD. C. Colquhoun
R. F. Callan M. M, McOdrum
H. A. Creighton, B.A. R. R. Dalgleish
P. M. Cassidy
H. E. Read, B. A.

Special Reporters

D. R. Webster, B.A.
A. Chester Smith

Overseas Correspondent - - J. A. Dunlop, B.A.
Staff Artists
‘Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie
BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A
129 Spring Garden Road

All subscripttons and advertising accounts payable to the Business Manager.

De

A. C. Milner

EDITORIAL

 

A new chapter in the history of
medical science in Hastern Canada was
commenced on Thursday last, when the
‘corner stone of tthe ‘Out-Patient and
Health Clinic was laid by Hon. George
H. Murray, Premier of Nova Scotia.
Simultaneously, this event marked the
beginning of a new era for the Medical
College of Dalhousie University. Not
only will this institution, when completed, be of inestimable value to the promotion of better general public health,
but it will also provide almost unlimited
facilities for medical students to obtain
consultative and clinical experierice of a
varied nature. It is a splendid addition
to the unique collection of practic
medical buildings which virtua
round the college. President A. - Macaod in his able address in which he

briefly the development of the
Medical College during the ‘past few
years, ‘struck ‘an extremely optimisti¢
note, and it ‘will ‘also be noted that he
stated that it was made possible almost
rag A through the gén gifts
the Carnegie crporstia and the Rockfeller Foundation. His quotations ~~
‘the of the re ves
these donors ‘are evidence of the
in which Dalhousie is held by them
it is to be hoped that our uereey 8

   

  

of ‘Space or other

‘FOUN DED ‘1'8'69 ‘

HALIFAX, 'N.°S.,: NOVEMBER ‘15, ‘192

 

the importance of public health activities which may be ‘well taken as‘an indi-‘eation that the Government will ‘con‘tinue to ‘increase its efforts for the: betterment of health conditions generally.

 

The Gazette has two functions, besides being a ‘university news ‘medium,
it provides a ‘facile channel ‘of literary
expression for all ‘the ‘students.
astonishing thing is that'in such a body
of potential writers there are'so few
who actually and ‘seriously ‘attempt to
transfér'their own thoughts and impressions to the printed page. ‘Here in this
university there are students who will at
a later ‘date, not far distant perhap’s,
embrace the art of journalisth and by
means ‘of that ‘pursuit ‘earn their living;
here, to ‘day, there are young men and
women who will in the future’make valuable contributions to the literature of
Canada and the world. Every student
should be able to express himself along
literary lines before they leave Dalhougie with their coveted degrees. The
public expect it. Particularly is this
true of those in the Faculty of Arts,
though all members of ‘the ‘professional schools will be ‘called ‘upon, at some
time or other, to give a written opinion
‘on some subject of importance. In view
‘of ‘all this, is it not astounding ‘to learn
that ‘ndt ten per cent'of those registered
are contributors to the ‘college weekly.
We ask you to seriously consider these
remarks; they are not written idly, but
with a ‘purpose. The ‘Gazette wants
your support. The small portion of
your spare time required could ‘not ‘be
devoted to a more profitable enterprise
from ‘the standpoint of the student body
as a ‘whole or from ‘that 'of personal
gain. Our ‘present ‘réquirements ‘are
short ‘articles ‘on ‘matters pertment to
‘college ‘life, not exceeding four hundred
‘words, poems of not more than thirty
line, ‘and man little news items and
personals, paftioulat of the spresent
‘alurimi ‘and alumnae. ff your | attempt is not published, ‘heongh Mt tack of
oy, don be ‘ditcouraged ‘but try again.

Congratulations to Dalhousie ’s football tearn. THeir Splendid (performance ~
red erst in which, th ough they were

e to defeat ‘the i ot the heen

ee uy in ‘ntti in re re

eee)

The °

 

 

 

— Stone lata 
‘Public Health and Out-Patient Clinic
Building Addition to Medical College.

Another notable date in the story of
Dalhousie was fixed on Thursday, Oct.
9th, when the corner stone of the new
Public Health and Out-Patient Clinic
was laid by the Honourable George H.
Murray, Premier of Nova Scotia.

Despite the inclement weather the
ceremony was carried through successfully before a large number of students
and interested citizens. Lieut.-Governor McCallum Grant was also one of
the notables assembled on the temporary platform which had been erected at
the Morris St., and College St., corner
of the building where the stone was
laid. Representatives of the Board of
Governors and the Senate of Dalhousie
were also in attendance. The proces
sion from the Forrest building, led by 
the president, was an impressive one;
the gowned professors with their many

‘colored hoods presenting an appearance

which added much to the auspicious occasion.

The ceremony began with a prayer
of dedication by Rev. Dr. Bond who
also pronounced the Benediction after
the stone was laid. President A. S.
MacKenzie in an address sketched the
later history of the Medical College of
Dalhousie and explained to his hearers
how the building of this institute of
public health had been made possible by
the generous donations of the Rockfeller and Carnegie funds. 
‘He then called upon Premier Murray to officiate with the trowel, which
that honorable gentleman did in a splendid manner. After pronouncing the
storie ‘‘well and truly laid’’ the Premier
made ‘a brief address reviewing the advances made during recent years in the

line of curative and preventive medi‘dine along public health lines.

In closing Premier Murray said :—

I Gongratulate the authorities of
Dalhousie on the marks of approval
that Have been placed upon the teaching ‘standard maintained. I congratulate the University upon the prospect
that its ideals are about to be nzalized,
I in tulate the people of this city

vince in that they will have in
ny midst ‘a group of institutions from
which I am satisfied will radiate a great
influence in the study of health cdnditions and Which will endure to

(Continued on page 2.)

en

a

heir
___ ing time,

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

DALHOUSIAN APPOINTED

An appointment which has met with
Dominion-wide approval among members of the legal profession, and one that
has given considerable gratification to
all Dalhousians, is that of Dr. Charles
Morse, LL.B. (Dal. ’85), D. C. L. (Toronto), K..C., as Editor of the newly
established ‘‘Canadian Bar Association
Review.’’

The first issue of this new legal publication, which will likely appear early
in January next, is being awaited eagerly, as, due to the often demonstrated
literary ability of the editor, everyone
feels assured of its success.

One of Dr. Morse’s recent writings
is a paper entitled ‘‘The Courts and
the Commonwealth,’’ which is remarkable not only for its comprehensive survey of the history of English judicial
institutions, but as well for the wide
reading which it evidences on the ‘part
of its author. It was read by him before the Historical Association of Annapolis Royal, in- August, 1921, on the
occasion of the bi-centenary celebration
of the founding of the first Civil Court of
Judicature in British North America.
That it was printed in the Canadian Law
Times last year, and has been reprinted
in the English Law Times in the issues
for this October 7, 14 and 21, affords
good proof of the high place which Dr.
Morse’s literary and scholastic attainment has won for him in the esteem of
members of the Bench and Bar, not only
in this country, but in the Old Land as
well.

It is understood that in consequence
of the establishment of the ‘‘C. B. A.
Review’’ the ‘‘Canadian Law ‘'Times’’
and the ‘‘Canadian Law Journal’’ wi
cease publication on completing thei
current volumes.

“QUILL”.

REVIEW OF REVIEWS
‘*Paradise Lost’’. Starting out in

Latin II.
‘*Kidnapped’’: A student at haz
. Great Expectations’:  Aspirations to graduation with distinction.
‘Alice in Wonderland’’: A fresh
ette in Philosophy I.
‘‘Vanity Fair’: A meeting of Del‘Windsor
and Amherst. |

ta Gamma.
A Tale of Two Cities”:
‘‘Pilgrim’s Progress’: Dlected
President of the Student Volunte

 

4

100P. C. ATTENDANCE

PROTEST
Widespread dissatisfaction in jhe
largest Faculty with the new Senaté requirement of 100% attendance, resulted
in the holding of a mass meeting of protest in the Munro Room on Thursday
evening last.

Some 250 students attended. The
President of the Society called the
meeting to order at 7.30. A strenuous
plea was made for the preservance of
order, as all signs presaged a stormy
session. Representative students spoke
on the ruling and it was soon evident
that the meeting was unanimously and
vigorously opposed to it. Immediate
action was demanded and on motion a
committee was appointed by the chairman to draft a letter expressing the
sentiments of the meeting. This letter,
addressed to the proper authorities,
was approved and the committee instructed to present it immediately to
those whom it might prove necessary to
approach.

‘Further developments will be watched with interest by every Dalhousian,
past and present. ‘The students feel that
an injustice has been committed * and
earnestly hope for an early and satisfactory settlement.

Dr. Thomson’s Lecture
‘Dr, Thomson, of Toronto, Director
of the Canadian Prophylactic Association of Canada addresed the Dental Society on Wednesday evening last, in the
Munro Room. In spite of Chemistry
‘*Quizzes,’’? Dances, ete., there was a
fair attendance, and all enjoyed the illustrated lecture.
Following a few remarks by the president of the Society, Dr. Thomson was
introduced and he began by tracing the
formation and development of the Association and referred to the great
work being carried on through their Information Bureau and Dental Research
Department. He stressed the im
portance of Oral Hygiene and discussed  }
the trend of the profession toward }
en

ventative dentistry. Dr. Thomson
considered dentrifices in some detail and

finished up by giving an actual example

of the great work being done by the Research Department,-in the form of the

partment’s r -upon steptococci.
the sp¢ for his interesting and

CORNER STONE LATD.
(Continued from page 1.)

great and lasting benefit. I trust that
the building which is to be erected on
this foundation will endure to witness
many triumphs of curative skill, and be
one additional centre for the alleviation
of pain and suffering, and an important
factor in creating better and more
healthful conditions in this city and
surrounding communities.’’

PERSONAL

Students will learn with regret of
the serious illness of Professor Jones
who has been unable to lecture for the
past week. In his absence the modern
languages are being looked after by
some of the other members of the staff.

DECREASED ATTENDANCE

Registration at the University of
Toronto this term has reached a total
of 4,619, not including the Royal College of Dental Surgeons and the Ontario Agricultural College. The figures
so far show a net decrease of 367,
total registration last year being 4,9
The numbers by faculties follow:

Arts, 2,219; Medicine, 988; Applied

Science and Enginering, 743; Ontario ©

College of Education, 209, Forestry, 52;
Music, 22; Department of Social Service, 341; Department of Public Health
Nursing, 45.

CLIP AND MAIL

BRYANT BROTHERS
Limited
STOCK BROKERS
84-90 ST. FRANCOIS XAVIER ST.
MONTREAL,

I have chacked off the securities on which I would
like you to send mé latest information,

[]—HOLLINGER
[]—DOME MIN

-HUGHES
]— NATIONAL NICKEL
]—INTERNATIONAL PAPER
I understand my request is no obligation to order.

:
FPOUIG Ls sie dnos byvw bbages cyoasccdpuereriuesiues ee eeteeeeee 
 

Yo 1 Education :

 

Pine Hill Post

Thanksgiving was observed in the
usual Pine-Hill fashion by those who did
not return to their native haunts. This
consists of three things, viz. turkey,
foot-ball and show. However, some who
take in the first: two don’t always take in
the last item. —

The annual foot-ball match between
the Old Building and the Annex took
place Monday.morning. The Old Building team won the championship by a
score of nine to three. The play was
fast and furious. Drop kicks and touch
downs showed evidence of strenuous
training and stellar work, while the
score bore mute testimony to the winning side. The line-judges worked hard
for the Annex but the referee was with
the Old Building. Milne Blachard, the
dark horse of the Old Building, starrer,
also George Smith and Tupper; and
Roy Inglis for the Annex.

Quite a few of the boys went home
for Thanksgiving, four tables according to the Pine Hill system of measurement, ‘‘Pa’’ Creelman wishes it announced that he almost went.

Bob Scott an old Dal. man, famous
in his time, who has been teaching in the
north of New Brunswick and who has
won great fame in boys’ work decided
to see what he could do with Pine-Hill.
We welcome him back and wish him
every success.

His holiness, accompanied by exseribe C. F. Grant called on several of
the boys this week exhorting them to abstain from all activities deleterious to
the new-comers. We wish to assure
them of the whole hearted support -of
this column, which will do everything in

 

its power to suppress these nefarious .

and infamous proceedings.

The Scribe has been asked by Angus
Gillis, a man well known in these parts,
to call attention to the abominable ferry
service between Imperoyal and the
mainland. He arrived over there on
Friday and missed the nine o’clock
train from Halifax Monday morning.
We suggest this be looked into.

The boxing

  
 

err, time keeper. Everybody

 

very elaborate ule has ben made

out. As the scribe’s turn comes very |
soon he would like to suggest that these.
Paes dd 'Se. orahibited

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

eerie

 

wing’ with th aarittn Neotn —
swheeiitth the Tnam saa
Ar ge Bary Britton as referee and .

in the residence is to participate and a” ly’
rate - fail to be helpful to any student. |

Edward Island, . a

* ‘
: f ' ‘ , no
* = : r &
r | fr a = 7 = ’ s ui
WILL HAPPEN, — {2 Dein
e ‘ way | 4 P p22
= . 4 = fs iby yy P . ht] s :
z =; i he ject + , : ‘
4 P = ts ‘ ie E .
a? ha a 4
a fet | ites ie

HOW TO STUDY
(in brief )

1. Read wisely. Select data vital to
the course. Keep a loose-leaf notebook for ‘‘outside reading:’’

2. Arrange and organize material in
order of sequence according to the
method of the Professor. Don’t use the
text-book as a work of art, but as a
tool; underline, side-line, bracket, carve
out and erase.

3. Upon completion of the reading
of a subject outline it, and get keywords to be used as indices to bodies
of knowledge.

4. Read the complete assignment
through at one sitting and mark the
difficult sections. Then study, with pen
and paper the difficult sections. Finally, read the whole selection once, referring back to outlines and text, to get a
co-ordinated treatment of the topic.

0. (a) Study at the same period
every day. (b) Seat yourself at the
same table, in a similar position, with
books, lights, etc., placed in a permanent relative position,

6. Do not have ‘‘bare’’ electric
lights in your room :

7. Sounds should be uniform and
regular.

8. Make regular breaks in the study
period for regular periods of time.

9. For strictly memory work, distribute the, learning over several short
periods. Don’t concentrate on it for
one long period.

10. Give the mind a chance, Let it
work according to its own laws. Then
examinations will not be the bane of an
otherwise pleasant life, but the questions will rather call out a well-organized, clear, and sufficient supply of
ideas. | ,

The above is an analytic summary

of an article on ‘Habits to Form In

Study,’’ by Professor Earl D. MacPhee,
of the Department of Philosophy, Uni
versity of Alberta, published in the

issue of ‘‘The Gateway” of October 31.

he article is comprehensive, explicit in instruction, and clearly worded
in non-technical language. It is regretted that its necessary ler does not

allow the Gazette to print it in full, as ©

a careful reading and consideration of

the methods advocated therein, and of

the principles underlying them, cannot
Mr. MacPhee is a native of Prince

1 psychology, and was Professor of

   

 

 

. house.
hours in a ditched car doesn’t need a
luate of ; Kdintree, eh ed and burgh University, where he specialized .
‘sparring be alone encouraged, _—in |
eee logy at Acadia for a year prior |

___. the final match. Some of
8 are now anxious to have a scratch tour- .en oe an aia

“THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 4

ee ett lad tht tet
ee eset LES
-_—- LT

University Hall

 

During the past two weeks the boys
at the Hall have been living high. Hallowe’en was marked by a banquet fit for
the Senate. Everything was there from
punch to ice cream. Sandwiches of all
kinds were piled high on tables which
were tastefully decked with salads and
fruit. ‘‘Bill’’ certainly came across on
a grand scale.

Although many of the boys went
home for Thanksgiving, those who
stayed got a regular holiday dinner—
chicken and all. Just iow, everyone is
looking forward to the Alumni dinner
tomorrow night.

Not content with such feasts, Eddie
Bayer entertained several of his friends
at a stuffing party the other night. Two
chickens, a large variety of cakes, and
a bountiful supply of nuts did the disappearing act about twelve o’clock, Of
course this is mostly guess work, for
Kiddie very tactfully selected the night

of the Law Dance, when. all the - heavy...

eatérs were out enjoying the weather.

Next week will appear a full account 
of the dance, which is one of the three
chief events of the year; the other two
being the dances that come after Christmas.

Now that the football season is over,
you can sometimes see a player smoking
a Player or even a cigar. Of course
training was never very severe, but overindulgence was usually avoided. Very
few accidents happened this season.
With the exception of a pair of cauliflower ears, some bad ankles and a
broken heart, University Hall escaped
lightly The ears and the ankles will
soon mend, but M—r—y’s heart—Gee,
that was tough.

On Thanksgiving afternoon, the Hall
was the unexpected hosf at a the dansant.
This occurred when two popmar young
ladies of the city dropped in after the
Wanderers-Acadia game to give the
boys a treat. Charlie was called on to
pour, and the ladies after a short but
otherwise pleasant call, departed.

Mr. Barnhill, of week-end tendencies,
is becoming a regular visitor at the Hall.
Some one was heard to inquire the other
day if he thought this was a boarding
A fellow who can enjoy five

boarding house.
The handicap billiard tournament

is ended and Hull wears the laurel

wreath, it becomes him well, too. Mont

Haslam went down in the semi-finals

and Milner was easily nan i 2
e residen

ee
ce
#2

ada an

)
weir

"Ss
a

«nt
7 LD
va
Pee
Se,
aid Se
EMF y tage
La Te eee) ey
=i

ee et ae ae cal
A

‘
€ :
“pt

   
 

:

ap ot

  
 

P|

a 4 hy,
Ve

ee a
‘ tab

*

  
 
  
  

 
OVERSEAS NOTES

A Dalhousian’s View of Glasgow and
Belfast.

Exeter College, Oxford,

Oct. 15, 1922.

Your correspondent has arrived. At
times he seriously doubted. whether. or.
not. he should. And still the wonder
grows. how one Christopher Columbus
managed to ferry across in a craft even.
smaller than the ‘‘Graciana.’ ’ Since
arrival | have earnestly endeavored to

register impressions. But with the.re~ turn of Stephen Leacock these are more

or less exhausted. The impressionistic.
territory here is nearly as barren. as,

was America after the return of
‘‘Margot’’ and Sir Oliyer Lodge, _
So much by way of introduction.

Perhaps you would be interested in a.
brief resume of my movements en route...
Leaving Halifax on September 18th, in,

company with seventen thousand. bar
rels. of good old Annapolis Valley. ap-.

ples, I had the pleasure of their com
pany for a period of no less. than, two.
weeks. It was interesting, Experience

in black letters, especially as Neptune
(I think it’s Neptune !) arranged the
biggest display of the year for our ben
efit. in retrospect it was a most inter-_

esting experience—in actuality perhaps
not so pleasant. However, 1 was not
sick for over overlong—I didn’t have
time to be.

On the 30th of September I disembarked at Glasgow. and was immediately.submerged in the whirling maelstrom of that great city. I took particular care to register first impressions.

This involved a complicated study of
economics, | was glad I had taken two

classes in the study at Dalhousie. When
we ieft Halifax there had been rumors

of war. When we arrived I fully expected to see the country bristling with

arms, and to read the patriotic call to.

service. My first objective was, there
fore, the nearest news stand. Herein en-.

ters the economics. There it was that I

found that Canadian cattle were not the .
only thing on which there was an em
Ford, cleaned renovated, would look
like a ‘‘super six’? in Glasgow. When
you are in a hurry. crossing a street all
you have to do\is,step over. two, or three
of:them., They..sneak, along the streets,

and about the, only. way. you .know they

are running is to,see the glare from their
highly.polished radiators. I felt so overjoyediat the.sight.of.a real Ford that I
had difficulty in restraining myself from
embracing it. Lucky for me, I did not,
for seated in the tonneau was.a lady of
rank-—a duchess.at least. You could tell
by the way she gazed into space.

That afternoon, I;attended a football
game at Celtic Park—a final;game for
the. Seotitish, cup,, between. the, Glasgow
Rangers, and.) lye The, authorities
were disappointed because. only a mere
fifty. thousand spectators.turned out. It.
resulted in a.scoreless.draw,. I\was more.
interested in..the crowd than. the. game.
No shoyting: or, rooting, of any, kind.
Once. ina while after a,particularly brilliant play. thene would be,a slight ripple
ofvapplanse.. 5

So.mych for, Glasgow. I left, there.
at something after eleven that night for
Belfast. I was,sitting.in.the saloon reading a paper when a gentleman just :opposite attracted my. attention. It was
Professor J. E .Todd, formerly of Dalhonsie, now of Queen’s College, Belfast.
Probably. some,,of the ‘‘old,guard’’ at
Dal would: rememberihim,, He,left there
to, enlist..in:.1916, On the, boat -with, him
was Professor Laird,,also of Belfast, and,
formerly of Dalhousie. Both seemed
pleased..to, meet:one straight. from the
old:callege and we;spent a very interesting.time,togethers. Prof,'Dodd.was just
getting backi.from,.a visit: te St, An-,

~ drew?s, University, where, he, had. been,

acting agjan ‘‘outside.examiner’’. It is,
something aoe a at oe ne
object being, 1 think, to prevent, the,studienanghelising ait. ‘‘eegentricities,.of,
the professor’” who sets, and, marke, his,
own. papers.. From,,the. \viewpoint the Dal, system,is,the best... ;
We. arrivedve next morning . at,
ian newspaper, re
  

1690,’’ I noticed no sign of war, However, it was too-early.for the ‘‘pubs’’ to
be open so perhaps I chose an inopportune time.

Save for an odd armored car, anda.

few. regular, troops. in steel helmets, I:

scarcely, noticed any sign of war in the
Ulster capital, The curfew regulations
compel all persons. to be in their, houses
by eleven o’clock, but this can scarcely,
be..deemed a hardship, save by those
aesthetically inclined who would like to
take advantage of the harvest moon.

Monday. morning, I missed my train.
It served me right for depending on an.
A: B. C. railway guide. I \felt-so-proud
after. mastering its intricacies (it really
is.an art), that :I did not notice that it
was of pre-war vintage, or nearly. While
waiting for the next train I bought, a,
paper. ‘The city had been very quiet.
over the, week-end. Only. two people

illed.

After, a week among my relatives in,
Antrim; I returned to Belfast, then on
to. Liverpool, and finally to Oxford, On
the boat was a battalion of English
troops en route to the Dardanelles. They .
seemed pleased at the change, I stayed,
in Liverpool. only long enough to drive
from the boat to, the. train, then on. to

Oxford.

But hark.! the, bell is tolling for hall,,
dinner. Itis already 7.28 and it will take
me.two minutes to get into, that unaccustomed gown. So with this I. will,
close for the’present, reserving for the,
future, an idea of the life and, customs
prevalent here. Fraternally,

J. ANGUS:

- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Gazette ie 6 acknamnieran
receipt, of subscriptions from the fo
lowing Drs. D. M,. Reed, John. Cam;,
eron, Jas. H. Lawley, Messrs. Robt.
Scott, Walter R. Warren,
C..R. NICHOLSON, Bus, Mgr.

Nervous Student (after. a bewilder-.
ing lecture on. Math, )-——‘‘ Er, .ah,,.Is
what you put over this morning in this,

 

bi
?

     
  
  
  

«

: e4 , ,
r
ee

SS

COTE SOUE ie EL rp nt isbn aantamtnste nme,

At The Majestic

The Players close their season the:

end of this week and the bill that they
have chosen for their farewell performance is all that one could desire for
such an occasion. The company has
done. great work in the City this season, and its members
the whole-hearted admiration’ of the
patrons, but this week’s play—‘‘The
World and His Wife’’—has proven to
be the greatest hit yet.

The production of the week is under
the auspices of the Local Council of
Women. |

Next week, ‘‘The Dumbells Revue of
1922’’ will make its first appearance in
Halifax. Ross Hamilton, Capt. Plunkett, Red Newman and the other: old
favorites will be herewith new songs,
new - jokes, and entirely new show.
Don’t miss it!

 

He—I could dance on like this forever.

She—Oh, I’m sure you don’t mean
it! You're bound to improve.

—Pearson’s Weekly.
STOP PRESS

Red Cross Drive next week.

Murray B. Emaneau, Dalhousie,
Arts ’23, has been appointed Rhodes
Scholar for the Province of Nova Seotia. Mr. Emaneau is a native of ‘Lunenburg and has an almost unparalleled
scholastic record.

 

 

 

The James DeMille poetry and prose
competition awards have been announced. (©. F. Bowes, M. A., and A. ©. Milner, Law ’24, are winners of $100
prizes. !

EDITORIAL
(Continued from page 1.)
ing the. intercollegiate championship.
Let it be known that Dalhousie appreciates the efforts of the men. who uphold jher honor on the gridiron. They
sacrifice much that the athletic prow
  
  
     
  

  

have won.

_ MOOT COURT

The fall term: of the Dalhousie Moot.

Oourt’ opéned. its. sittings on Friday,
October 26th, when the case of Ross vs.
Fedden was:‘argued before Nicholson,

C. J. Ross, Ji. and Townshend, J. :

Messrs. Colquhoun and Bethune appeared for the Appellants, while
Messrs: Réad‘and Ives represented the
Respondents. The Appellants who had
received only nominal’ damages: in the
lower court, sought substantial damages on Appeal. The case which was
based on Rylands vs Fletcher was one in
which the Respondent was owner of a
water tank placed.on his premises
which were adjacent to those of the
Appellant.
accident the tower: collapsed and. did
considerable damage to Appellant’s
premises and stock in trade contained
therein, After hearing argument by
learned Counsel, decision was given in
favor of the Appellants.

On Friday, Nov. 3rd, with Hackett
C. J., MacIsaac J, and Harrison J., in
the bench the case of The Casing Co. v
Abbott was heard on appeal. Messrs.
MacKinnon and Goodwin appeared for

the Appellants while the respondents .

were represented by Messrs. McKenna
and MacDonald. The gist of the action
was the conversion of goods by a clerk
in theyemploy of the Respondent. One
Bishop;-had forged Abbott’s -signature
to.an-order for goods from the Appellant Company. He secured the goods
from the Railway Company through: the
offices of Abbott’s clerk and disposed
of them. The Casing Company. sued
Abbott for the conversion of the goods.
Judgment was given for the Appellant.

Jones vs. Elite Theatre Oo., was ar
Through. some unforseen '

58)

gued on Friday, Nov. 10th, before Flavim C, J., Fulton Ji, and Newsome J.
Messrs. Milner and Guthro appeared
for the Respondents and Messrs. Kennedy and Longley for the Appellants.
The action was one’ for assault. Jones
had ‘been forcibly ejected from the respondent’s theatre because he wore a
sweater contrary to the bye-laws of the
theatre. Notice on the ticket purchased
by the Appellant read, ‘‘The management reserves the right to remove any
person from the theatre at their discretion,’? and the bye-law read that any
one wearing a sweater was not to be
admitted to seats in the Orchestra.

Kennedy K. C. appealed from a deci
sion given in favour of the Plaintiff
Jones in the lower court basing his appeal on the grounds of misdirection in
allowing the fact that plf’s. fiancee had
broken off their engagement to go to the
jury. After hearing learned Counsel
the Court upheld the decision of the
trial judge and dismissed the Appeal.
Milner, K. ©. who successfully represented the Plaintiff had an outstanding
aversion to reading the cases which he

cited.
D. ©. C.

 

BRUTAL INITIATION.

Initiation proceedings characterized
ag ‘‘a disgraceful exhibition of’ sheér
brutality’’ in which half a dozen men
were rendered unconscious and ‘several
more or less serious injuries inflicted,
oceurred at 8. P. S., Toronto, this term.
These incidents have been condemned
in no uncertain fashion by leaders ‘in
college life at that institution, and have
aroused strong feeling against ‘such
actions. 
GIFT SUGGESTIONS

A comprehensive assortment of attractive G

ifts, rare in

quality and reasonable:in; prices, are to be found in Birks
ear Book. |

  

  
  
  

   

    
  
  
 

eee ee ae: ‘ book, sir ?’? cat and. onitione of the black me io
bargo. The news agent refused to ac- On.coming on.deek | Sa shall be,upheld. It requires not\ only jf _ We make School and Class Pins, submitting sketches
.gratu.tously allowed me to read. the. tion ofilight, field Willingness, to attend seemingly endless the work.
headlines. I felt relieved to notice,that pointed. kes practices and battle through many hard
apparently the only battle that, had taken, , Dalonnclenmias the, fought games, - there may hay A Copy of the Birks Year Book will be mailed on request.
piace in the interim, was one “‘some-. tained henneE eee 7 been,.. judging from the standard of, ror ee
where in France!" between Georges Gat. to»my. sneosinals ama, On: games won an re successft

i Battling ‘Siki.!,
pentier and one Ba “ak J ‘Todd kin
z ae
= y a yy 3 ‘1g 7
Lanent, that Gan: ind onge,, | Sees poe a
4 Et ; 34 : s a. : - * ” = ’ : :
4 ’ 1 iS A
33 | flow.of impressions . was. after |
ie Pig Rie Di pia amas Dr naps a ae eee, aa
s : P 4 4 av = = : s ; : i
eee I : . E ge ‘ | ' i 1 / ey . mT t y Fr : a 4 Fy re Tt. oF ‘| i
je “ : “ = f, ‘ ™ = > n = } es ‘ uh ie = WU ; esses a4 ..
Se wee 4 a e- ¥ 7 F + i! oe be un & a ae V . i "5 we . Ba tt ” : , 44 iw Fe 2 , hens ; ne oo ah 7 “1 a ire r oa
. 5 ‘ a . s i. , " j ap es P sg " . | F rT Le * eee STS -_ 2 f . a Aes
- T have since fe i Vi he reademce,of Prot, Lodd, Wey Ho a a a el bali
ea | . + (= eg +. ‘ ‘ E » ’ , A le re, es eral 4 Sri fy tp
J i a r ‘ _ 3 oo 5 ee Se == = = J 2 = on eer ei 4 “a : i
be He ‘7. MN e I . es oo = Fe ie ; eh Law —_" re 1 ta f a rs © a = on i == 4 Fa s h — poh f 7. bes ben a ad i 5 f = = wy “3 2
. . ; wee jel Bex Pret A ‘ee 4 on = ag ' 9 , + , p 3 Tito
4 a b ge i Y a ia 1g A 4 ; Lis , 1 | y pr tary Fa - = rs = 4 Z kan 4 ai baa et 4 a a / a Pt A y ii AL a by - FY id om a J ‘ a
¥ 4 fg i |
L *4. ve . f= a ‘ ‘ . ti . ae = ae ie tS Re if ~~ = fe — Veer § .. Ay =" , a
r  Save.tor — OF TA OL t c | Peg RR rete on ie
, a Ff se 7 5 = . an | A i a ‘ : | : o 4 ed eT %, a rs ar q a
2S ie ae ee °
’ ; - + J 3 ,

SS 
 
   
  

     

+5
2

    
  
 
   

. a. a) +3 fy ve
i a ee. ‘
4 on
SG ae eh .
7 as >
hd es F U Lf of a 7a rt |
- inte % iste ne: ‘ aS egal Pant . ot oa 7
| 1 r

: : | , -'
- 1 =e _ % mn g’ ite =) Nid ri - Ra = 7 i
* 4 A a" a i eS ¥. ee a sh 2 4 ae Se ee vs ‘
Si Eh = v Pea | As a andi mp A wa i ; at , - FY: at ae = : as . Ls wet Es
a Ibi if ’ “a i wig Es - / ’
, : i y ; = . + . oa -. é
4 ’ oe 7 eel ad . - P ae I . ow 7" . 2 - , a : Ay es ’ 7" + a : P : : . = ‘ete ete eh Ee — oe a
y , * ta) rag 3 ‘ iy - : a F wae =i a Pde J f te! nd 4 | ee jl reat a cl
Wis 2) ’ a Fe + = f FE ol ih rth {= 6 = ee bse O 4 : ‘
aa aie ' Uae aM ran Ae es thiwess" rie: —
F* 4 = } aa 7 a p ¥ ¥ le ee zs .
4 € " Hi
i M r
;

 

ue
* +.
* J Fm
=

= # aie 6 . ‘

og dod a
Cah ee
ee

   
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
    
 
  
  
 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

, - ‘ aot
Si i i= : = 3 ‘ i ; ieee 4 sei :
A ehh Ts ; ta ¥ f Pee et ee :
a “~ a6 eee 2s *) i. = : i = ‘ e£ss, hes gills» ake AWS eel
a ¥ ; a 7 : = = ‘ z s ls . P ot oh ei te SMa te Fx f
ues Se Pe hee he SS ite ; z hed “ii age—s pu A py Ae es i De aM, i. baer

“Real

Satisfaction”

Tigers Retain AB Rugby
Title by Holding U.N.B. Scoreless.

By holding U. N. B. to a draw in
the play-off at Amherst on Saturday
afternoon, Dalhousie retains the Maritime Intercollegiate championship for
another year.

On a field made wet and muddy by
snow and rain the day previous, the
New Brunswickers’ favorite style of
play, that of fast following up and
dribbling by the forwards rather than
relying on open half line play, gave
them a distinct advantage.

During the most of the first period
U. N. B. had the better of the play, but
were prevented from scoring by Dal’s
good tackling and punting. Cain of
U. N. B. was conspicuous in the play
of this period .with his kicking, and
narrowly missed the Tiger goal on a
drop kick. Coster and McInnes were
tackling well for Dal, while Langwith
and Haslam relieved the situation at
critical moments by their punting.

Play surged between center field
and the Gold and Black ten yard line
during the most of this part of the
game, and the Red and Black were attacking vigorously when the whistle
blew for half time.

Right at the beginning of the second
period the Tigers took the offensive
with a vengence, and from then on controlled the play almost at will, but
plays that on, many occasions looked
like certain scores were either ruined
by last minute fumbles, checked in the
nick of time by a U. N. B. tackler, or
held up by the referee due toa forward
pass,

This period was replete with hard
and spectacular tackles, sensational
half line combination plays, and individual runs, which kept the 1500 spectators in an uproar of enthusiastic cheering. McKenzie, Lounsbury and Fraser
tackled. hard and often to prevent a
score, as the Dal backs got away.

Mont Haslam shone with a series of
long and spectacular runs, working the
straight arm to the downfall of tackler
after tackler, but being finally brought
down each time just at the Red and
Black goal line. 
During the last ten minutes of the
game, although the ball was never out
of U. N. B. territory, both teams showed the best brand o “rugby of the game.

Kelly McLean, Bruce, and Don
Sothas land were the only Dal forwards

‘ibble as well as their o oe
hough all held up their end ba newend

Mae ers sendy game

224

  
 
 
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

A TIGER IN ACTION

 

fullback, showing reliability in the
crises:

Crease proved himself a good man
at his position on the half line, while
Morrison demonstrated that he has
ability to use his head, a virtue of specially great value. at quarter. Beaton
was aggressive, and good individually,
but did not pass soon enough on some
occasions.

Captain ‘‘Dinty’’ Moore suggested
overtime play, but U. N. B. decided that
they would call it a draw. ;

Line-up :—U. N. B.:—Fullback, McKenzie; Halves, Dummer, Hagerman,
Fraser, Seeley; Quarters, Lounsbury,
Gibson, Cain; Forwards, Jewett, Ackerley, Rigers, Gilmour, Miller, Jones,
Scott.

Dalhousie :—Fullback, McInnes,
Halves, Haslam, Crease, Coster, Langwith; Quarters, Morrison, Beaton;
Forwards, Bruce, Baird, McOdrum, D.
Sutherland, J. Sutherland, Geo. Sutherland, McLean, Logan.

SATURDAY’S INTERVARSITY
GAMES.

Varsity overwhelmed Queens at,

Kingston in the intercollegiate fixture
by defeating the ‘‘Tri-color’’? 24 to 1,
thereby tying with them for the championship of the Upper Canadian Intercollegiate Football Union.

 

Syracuse University won its second
annual international gridiron contest

ainst McGill by the score of 32 to 0.
Although it was understood that U. 8.
rules would govern the game, which
was played at Syracuse, it is reported
that the officials were very lenient, and
allowed the Canadian players great
freedom in the use of tactics peculiar
to their own game,

Amherst Citizens
Hospitable «

Dalhousie players express great appreciation of the kindness and hospitality shown to them, in common with
the U. N. B. team, while in Amherst.

A very pleasant evening was spent
as guests of the Marshland Club on
Friday night, part of the entertainment
being a radio concert.

On Saturday evening a highly successful informal dance was given for
the college visitors by the Marshland
Club members, no trouble or expense
being spared by the hosts in carrying it
out.

All details connected with the game
were attended to by committees of the
citizens and the Amherst A. A. A., including the sale of tickets and marking
and roping the grounds.

Mayor D. W. Robb and J. A. Hanway, K. C., Pres. of the Amherst
A. A. A., were at the head of things in
their official capacities, the former
‘‘kicking off’’ at the beginning of the
game.

A large proportion of the Dal team
attended church in a body on Sunday
morning, and after a pleasant afternoon visiting friends, returned to Hallifax on the evening train.

Princeton defeated Harvard 10 to
to 3 before 52,000 persons in the Harvard stadium. Costly fumbles contributed largely to the Crimson’s downfall. A very interesting and instructive
account of the game by Carleton F.
Bowes, M. A., appeared in Monday’s
Halifax Chronicle.

Yale 45; Maryland 3.

Cornell 93; Dartmouth 0.

Harvard vs. Yale this Saturday at
Hartford.

Dalhousie Headquarters for
Sporting

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at (40 Sackville Street. We can
supply with everything for Sport
Life. Pocket Knives, Razors,

Shaving Supplies.

We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys
and Stockings.

Morton & Thomson

 
 

he ; ; a"
#' bf ; 7 ' rt iL = "| q
ay e man
i - ’
. a I S
age 4 » A ES
STITT. HAT
' i i 4
aA By ad a B .

LEMON EXTRACTS
(By 1.!M. Tite)

 

Professor (Dental Materia Medica)—
**We finished powders ‘last time, so
today we.will take pills’’.

 

| DECEIVED.

The furniture installment collector
‘rang the door bell. In response to his
inquiry for the head of the house he was
‘told that the worthy gentleman had just
departed witha liveried chauffer in a
large ear of excellent make. And he
went on his way rejoicing.

_How was he to know that his patron
had. departed in the: POLICE PATROL?

A drink in time will save nine—if
‘it’s wood alcohol.

 

I sought .a prescription
Of liquid description.
The old family doctor called _I,
Around him I hovered,
And then he discovered
He’d used up his whole month’s supply.

 

Prof. in Bacteriology, (when four gentlemen ;arrive late and bring their
own .chairs)

‘‘Behold four of the wise virgins
have :arrived.’’

 

Student—‘‘ Philosophy .is a road ‘which
leads nowhere. ’’

Prof.— ‘Nevertheless it is an excellent
road to take exercise in.’’

Overheard at Freshie-Soph. dance—

 

Freshman to a ‘professor ;—‘‘Say,
Old-Top, would you mind introducing me to the girl you took here to
night.’’
: outs B 7,

 

Little Girl (at the show)—‘‘ Mamma,
when are the Indians arn ce 4?

Mother—‘‘Hush, Dear, there are no
Indians.”

Little Girl—‘‘Then who scalped all
them men in the front seats ?’’

 

GET THE BATHTUB.
‘‘T sure do miss ‘that cuspidor,”’
Said hubby dear one Oy |
But wifey said, ‘‘You did before,
That’s why it’s gone away.”

t came to Halifax,
( He had ravlled wide and far.
Baid he, “* ‘T sell you §

=

decorating of ‘the hall.

 

ue . i ; iy ‘ s.
' ; ; = ’ : r ae =) Oe : : ' ,
bas Fi ; : z : * ‘ 4 r , : * ‘ 4 at ae “VT | 5 és ‘
ae gp eaen S iees e Lef * 1 eee : enedens
> © Are Bei! ine» * p | ,
oe ee ; MA * i * Fy Seis 7
be) ae

‘THE DALHOUSIE ‘GAZETTE
The Law Dance

The :aaw ‘Dance, one of the leading »

social functions of the year took place
the Auditorium on Wednesday evening,

November 8th. It is, as a rule, one of ©

the most enjoyablerdances of the term
and this year was no exception. The
hall was tastefully decorated with college banners, bunting and flags and presented a ‘very attractive appearance.
Music and ‘floor were excellent, adding
considerably ‘to .the zest with which the
dancers ‘romped through the programme. ‘The :¢haperones were Mes
dames D. A. McRae, Stuart.Jenks, and

C. J. Burchell. Dean. MacRae and C. |
J. Burchell, K. C., also attended. The
‘committee :in«charge, Messrs. KE. Loug
heed, W. Morrison and H. Ferguson de
gerve credit forthe manner in which the ,

affair was conducted, particularly for
the arrangements regarding refreshments, the confusion and delay so notice
able at many dances being completely ;
éliminated. ‘Those present spent a de
lightful evening and departed to their

homes with a good opinion of the hos- |
pitality of ‘their Blackstonian hosts.

The ‘Committee wish to. thank
Messrs. Brander & Morris for ‘the loan

of the attractive wicker furniture which .
was provided for ‘the use of ‘the chap- —

erones. They are also indebted to Mr.

@hepheard and the staff of the Audi- :

torium for their able assistance in the

Jensen & Mills 'Co., Ltd. |
| Changed from
Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.
TWO STORES
26 Spring Garden Road
119 Young Street
GENERAL DRY GOODS ,
READY TO WEAR
MILLINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING.

 

 

 

 

 

 
     
   
       
     

WALK UPSTAIRS AND ||
SAVE TEN |

OVERCOAT WEEK |
AT ROBINSON’S |

Wonderful looking,’ great roomy Ulsters,
snappy Ulsterettes, plaid back,
All Wool Materials.

$25

$30 $35 $45
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington Street |

     
   

 

   
 

STUDENTS! |

DON’T THROW
YOUR OLD SHOES AWAY
Remember our GOODYEAR WELT SYStem that made this store so r in >

Halifax. If you haven’t done so before, try |
us now. It will be worth your while.

We will also renew your old hat so ‘that

you will thank us for saving you the price |
of a new one. :

THE SHOE HOSPITAL
428 Barrington Street

 

YOUR DRUGGISTS

| MACLEOD & BALCOM.

LIMITED
SOUTH END PHARMACY
E. M. MacLEOD

34Y, Morris Street. Tel. Sack. 245
QUALITY SERVICE

‘WEST END PHARMACY
$, R. BALCOM
‘Corner Seve Garden Road and Robie St.

lephone Sackville 314

NORTH END PHARMACY |
West Young Bineet. ydrostone District .

| NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY

PHONE LORNE 53

 

 
 

—

  
