 

 

Vol. LIV.

———
The Dalhousie Gazette

Founded 1869
Issued Weekly - - - - Ome Dollar Per Year

EDITOR - - - - + + J, GORDON FOGO

Associate Editors
Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean

 

Miss Juanita O’Connor D. C. Colquhoun

R. F. Callan M. M. McOdrum

H, A. Creighton, B.A. R. R. Dalgleish
P. M. Cassidy

Sports Editor - - - - - H. E. Read, B. A.

Special Reporters
A. C. Milner D. R. Webster, B.A.

Overseas Correspondent - - J. A. Dunlop, B.A.

Staff Artists
Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie

BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
129 Spring Garden Road

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable to the Business Manager.

Ee

NATIONAL CONFERENCE NUMBER.
Edited by H. E. Read (Law, °24)

EDITORIAL

 

In devoting this issue of the Gazette
chiefly to the first Canadian National
Students’ Conference, our aim is to enable all Dalhousians to conceive at least
some idea of this remarkable and vitally significant gathering, the first of its
kind in Canada, held at Toronto during
the Christmas holiday. Anyone who
was present will recognize that mere
written words must fail to convey at all
adequately the inspiration to thought
and effort afforded by the spectacle of
hundreds of earnest students, diverse
in every conceivable way (in race, religion, sect, political outlook, and geographical environment), united in one
great aim—that of finding the true way
to our Nation’s destiny. §Dalhousie’s
representatives herein tell the Gazette
readers just what they think of the Conference.. We therefore refrain from
further editorial comment.

We take. this opportunity on behalf
of the Dalhousie delegation to thank
the McGill students for their hearty co
 
 

 
  

  

  

operation not only on the journey from
Montreal to Toronto and return, but
Iso throughout the Conference. ” We

  
  
 
 

i

ie’s appreciation

_ who came wondering what kind of a re
ts.

LOUsIC

FOUNDED 1869

 

 

 

 

CONVOCATION HALL, UN'VERSITY OF TORONTO.

Photo by C. J. W. B. (Arts, 24)

 

 

The First Canadian Students’ Conference

By H. L. B.

The gathering at Toronto, under the
auspices of the Student Christian Movement, of more than 500 Canadian and
75 foreign students from about 20 different countries was remarkable in
many ways. It was the first gathering
of the Canadian Students of really national scope, and, I think, the first gathering of its size anywhere in which students themselves devoted hours each
day to the discussion in open forum of
great national and international problems. I am sure that most of us who
were there feel that the experiment was
successful far beyond expectations.

Without doubt the greatest single
contribtition to the Conference was
made by Dr. Herbert Gray, who came to
us from the British 8. O. M. and endeared himself to us all, quite as much by
what he was, as by what he said. His
addresses at nine o’clock each morning
revealed to us the very heart of Christianity and furnished the key note of the
Conference. It was the most significant series of talks to whch I ever listened.
-- he Conference impressed me in
many ways, but perhaps in none more
than by its spontaneous expresson of
international good will. This was shown
especially, in the case of the single re
ve of the German 8. C. M,,

ception he would receive. He was received not merely with a hearty greeting, but was the only one to be given
three rousing cheers. He was evidently so affected that he could hardly
speak,

The discussion of the Conference returned again and again to the terrible
need of the world for what Dr. Gray
called ‘‘sporting good will’’. It became
increasingly evident wth each successive discussion that something more
than religious complacency or a little
sentimental good will is needed, if this
world is to be saved from hopelessness
and anarchy in industrial and international affairs. In fact many of us came
away feeling that a tremendous responsibility rests on us, Canadian students
and teachers, to rediscover for ourselves the religion of Jesus and to make
it effective in all the relationships of
life, regardless of the cost of ourselves.

 

What at the Conference impressed me most?—

The wonderful possibilities of the Student Movement ; |
The sense of fellowship and toleration among
the students from all parts of the world.
The lack of race and religious prejudice and
selfishness,

The need of the world for a fuller understanding — aa , i;

of God and Jesus Christ,
N, A. M, :
(Pree. Students’ Council)

— =r Ae

 

   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
    
Roll Call

From gallery to gallery of Convocation Hall,
high above the platform, and in front of the golden
pipes of the great organ, was stretched a slender
cord bearing in brillant array the pennants of thirteen Canadian universities, Between the pennants
dangled a small pasteboard skeleton, the astonished
spectator of a strange drama taking place below
him,

The hall had been gradually filling, until now,
from one side to the other of the great semi-circular auditorium, the little skeleton was confronted
by row upon row of upturned faces. There were
many, many young and eager student faces; there
were expectant, middle aged faces; there were grave,
scholarly faces; and the little skeleton knocked his
bones together with astonishment to find that there
were faces white, faces brown, and faces yellow.

Shining out in front of the rows at his right
hand was a large white card bearing in black letters the mame, “Dalhousie,” one farther over read
“Toronto”, at his left was the name “Alberta”, one
in the centre bore the word “Guests”—And suddenly looking down, on the platform directly beneath
him he observed five gentlemen taking their places.

A ringing chord sounded from the organ pipes
behind him, At the signal, the whole body of people rose to their feet, and the little skeleton hung
perfectly at “attention” as there poured forth from
hundreds of throats the strains of “God Save The
King!” Then from somewhere in the house came
a shout—“Three Cheers for Lord Byng!”, when
there followed a lusty response such as that little
skeleton had never heard before. He thought, looking toward the platform, “The Mighty sit at my
feet”.

Then Mr. Ernest Clark, General Secretary of
the Canadian Student Christian Movement, with a
few words of greeting and weleome began the rolleall of Canadian universities. “The youngest university in the Dominion, the University of British
Columbia”, rang out the words of the speaker, and at
his left responded a “yell” which echoed around the
gallery.—“U. B. C,”

“The oldest college in the British dominions
beyond the seas, King’s College” came the voice; and
down in front two gentlemen wound their arms
around each others necks and set up a “Ki-yi, ki-yi,
ki-ipi, ky-yi” which would have done justice to ten
throats of iron,

One after another the colleges responded with
all those jargons of sounds which are music to student ears: and to some the sweetest note came in response to the call, “The College by the Sea”,

The roll-call ceased; the hall was quiet; and @
supreme satisfaction filled the audience, as they
realized that at last it had come—the long hopedfor, worked-for, prayed-for hour, when, from all over
the land, Canadian students should be gathered to
discuss the means of solving the vital problems con
fronting the Nation’s youth.
A. G. H. (Arts 723.)

 

Professor Aggrey from Africa told of a bright
young African who made a tremendous discovery in
his study..of, the Bible. The man said, “I am sorry
“¥g"find it so, for I know some very fine white people,
but I find that only the black people are going to
get to Heaven.
“But, where do you find that ?” asked his friend.
“You know the story,” he replied, “of the Lord
separating the sheep from the goats, and sending
only the sheep to Heaven ? Well, the black people
are the only ones that are like sheep—they have the
wool on their heads.”

 

FOR SALE—At mere pittance—introduction to
any girl at the Conference. Apply to Red Grant.

 

ee ee ee Ahi

=

Photo by H. L. (Eng. ’24)

 

Canadian Conference Hymn

And did those feet in ancient time

Walk upon earthly mountains green?
And was the Holy Lamb of God

Within our pleasant pastures seen?
And did the Countenance Divine

Shine forth upon our clouded hills?
And was Jerusalem builded here

Among those dark Satanic mills?
Bring me my bow of burning gold!

Bring me my arrows of desire!
Bring me my spear! O clouds, unfold!

Bring me my chariot of fire!
I will not cease from mental fight,

Nor shall my sword sleep in my hand,
Till we have built Jerusalem

Within our broad and bounteous land,

—William Blake (Alt’d.)

Character and Leadership

Lord Byng, Canada’s soldier Governor-General,
won the admiration of the students at the Conference by his undoubted sincerity, his whimsical humor,
and the utter frankness with which he treated his
subject, in his address on “Character”, on the opening night. re

After a thoughtful analysis of what character
really is, Lord Byng dealt in an able manner with
its relation to conduct and a man’s ideal in life.
“One part of conduct,” he said, “is more important
than any other—moral conduct. Moral conduct implies action for the good of others, or the readiness
of the individual to seek his own happiness in that
of his fellows.”

He advocated education and leadership as two
important means of helping others. The two are mutually dependent if the greatest good is to be ac:
complished. The leader should set an example in
morality, in helping those with whom he is associated, and in taking part in and encouraging healthy
amusement,

“You all know Mathew Arnold’s two great
spiritual forces,” he concluded, “both of which aim at
man’s perfection. He calls them Hebraism and
Hellenism. Hebraism means the development of
vigor, health, conduct, obedience , duty—a going forward with the best light we have. Hellenism means
the desire to see things as they really are—an
ardent sense for all new and changing ideas and the
indomitable impulse to know and adjust them, Aim
at getting an admixture of the two,”

A. W. MeN. (‘Arts).

 

LOST—Twelve girls report loss of earrings. Anybody having same in his possession is most lucky,

 

ie, @ a! ull
SOME DALHOUSIANS ENJOYING THEMSELVES DURING THE TRIP.

 

 

 

THE WORLD SITUATION

And the New Renaissance.

Speaking in Convocation Hall on the evening of
Dec. 31, Dr. John Mott, President of the World’s
Student Christian Movement, said, “I am alarmed
at the present world situation. The feeling in
Europe today is one of utter distrust. In every
country are radically different problems. The world
is in a state of impossible economic chaos. The
backs of innocent generations are going to be bent
by our present system.

Physically the world is suffering agony unparalleled in history. The world is diseased both physically and morally. Yet, though its condition is perilous, it is not actually dying, Today new nations are
springing into being; old nations are being reborn.
The sickness which has spread over the world is
really akin to that which we ordinarily associate
with birth.”

Dr. Mott said that the new Renaissance movement is not confined to China, the place of its origin,
but is spreading over the entire world. Wherever
he has found young men sincere and earnest in their
thinking he had found them determined to find a
new way. Therefore the constructive hand of real
Christianity must be laid upon the universities, the
colleges, and the higher schools of the world. The
great battleground for right is in the educational
institutions.

War must be made on all self-centered cliques,
and on those who are always emphasizing the weak
instead of the good points of other people and other
nations. War must be made on the causes of war.
The students are the international problem.

Thus, he argued, more students should be enabled
to study in foreign cuontries for the sake of international unity and peace. “We must build bridges
between the nations. As we return to our studies
may we always keep before us a vision of the New
World.” 8. B. P. (Med ’25.)

 

Charlie Baxter (addressing a group of students
in the Hall) “Why that Conference ni Toronto was
wonderful; why it made some men think who had
never thought before.” |

 

REWARD—10,000,000 rubles offered by Larry
MacKenzie for information leading to the conviction
of the person who left the parcel of smoked herring
in place of his suitcase at the station.

 

LOST—By Hilda O’Brien, between car wheel and
rail. One half suit case. One half pair stockings.
One half tooth brush, ete. Moral—Roll your own
in each end,

4

|
Hee i
"| mY

 

 

——— ee a

Industry And The Nation

ENLISTMENT OF PERSONALITY NEEDED,

It was the unanimous opinion of the delegates
assembled at Toronto that some change must soon be
niade in our industrial order,

lhe introduction of the problem was in the
hands of Prof, R. M. Melver, Professor of Economics
at Toronto University.

‘lhe theme of Professor Mclver’s address was
that. in our industrial life there must be an enlistment of personality. Personality must be placed
above institutions and everything else. To date industries have stultified to an unfortunate degree, the
quality of personality.

“We can put first our memories or our ideals ”
he stated. “It is the young who must put ideals
before memories, for as we grow older our memories
Do not be afraid of ideals, and above all
be feariess in your thinking and think always. It
seems to me there is far too much timidity in the
matter of thinking and that timidity is always
opposed to Education. Nothing makes me more
angry than to think of cases where thought is repressed by authority.”

The division of society into two classes—capital
and jabor was not so important to him as was the
fact that they did not understand one another, He
pointed out that the people of Canada, in the main,
did not realize the effect upon a worker of knowing
that at any time his livelihood might be cut off.
‘here is no regular system in Canada of avoiding
this or of preventing the consequences through inIn this respect this nation ig behind the

increase,

surance,
countries of Europe.

On Friday evening December 29 and on the following Saturday afternoon the various phases of the
industrial problem were discussed by the delegates
and while few definite conclusions were reached it
was agreed that there is something wrong with our
system as at present constituted. How it may be
remedied was not decided but it was felt that a
clearer understanding and a more thorough spirit
of toleration and good-will can do more than anything else to bring hope to a most unpleasant and
undesirable situation.

Only through a decision to really sacrifice in
an effort to effect the establishment of the “Brotherhood of Man” in a practical, truly Christian
form, lies hope for a cure of industrial ills.

How many professing Christians who openly advoeate a change (and many do), are willing to forego, to actually sacrifice, to deny the self absolutely
in order to attain the goal?

Although no definite scheme was promulgated
at the Conference, many students were led to a fuller realization of the great and imminent need of
thoughtful and determined action based on truly
Christian principles,

Indeed it may not be too bold to forecast that
in the wake of this conference’ will follow the force
which will impel the men and women of Canada to
ultimately attain the solution of these important
questions—a solution without which Canada cannot
hope to realize to the full her place among the
nations of the world.

C. 8. R. (Law, ’23).

 

In spite of the storm the Dal Skating
Olub party at the Arena on Saturday
night was well attended. Hverybody
present appeared to be having a good
time in spite of a predominance in numbers of the sterner sex.

 

FOUND—In Chipman, N, B., by Claude Richardsoh, a sister.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Rural Situation

In Canada
As seen by Hon. Mr. Drury

Speaking before the First National Conference
of Canadian Students on December 29, Hon. E. C.
Drury said that the Rural Situation is one of espec
ially great national importance in Canada because

all life in Canada depends on a satisfactory solution of the Rural Problem.

We depend on the soil but the soil is capable

of destruction. Many times in the world has the

soil of countries been made desolate: Consequently
those who control the soil should be people of considerable intelligence and forethought.

In every true workman there is a desire to enjoy the thing that he makes but in our jndustrial
system we have robbed the workman of that joy.
In getting modern efficiency we have sacrificed the
personality of the workers, Agriculture is one of
the few industries where a man can enjoy his work,
He gets less money reward voluntarily because he
enjoys his work. The agricultural laborer gets less
than two and a half dollars a day while the brick
layer gets five dollars, although the former requires
more skill,

In 1881 nine tenths of the rural towns in Ontario reached their maximum population, Since
then they have declined while the urban population
has increased. The rural districts suffer from the
loss of the young people especially the girls, The
boys out number the girls in the country—a bad
condition. The people leave the country not because
of the lure of the city but because they are forced
to in order that they may make a living. The people who are on the land now are there largely beeause of their sentiment,

Protection is the root of the trouble in the rural
A protective tariff, at first a blunder, is
now a crime, It is responsible for a cost of living
so high that our products can not sell in the markets of the world. In selling, Agriculture has to
compete with cheaper production, for example India.
But it has to buy in the dearest market in the
world—a ruinous condition.

Twenty years ago a suit of clothes cost the
price of the fleeces of sixteen sheep. Today a suit
which is not so good costs the price of sixty three
fleeces, It is the same with binders and everything
else which the farmer has to buy.

Wealth is not what the rural population want
but a decent livelihood.

We have a big national debt and we must export to pay it off or our paper money will decrease
in value. Export is hampered under the present
rural situation. The solution of this problem is
the only thing which can save Canada from bankruptey.

problem,

H. A, ©. (Med ’24,)

 

An incident typical of the Conference was the
collection during the discussion on European problems of $2,511 for the relief of students in CzechoSlovakia. This followed the speech by Miss Margaret S. Quale, secretary of the European Student
Relief at Prague. She came direct from there to
the Conference and told of the sufferings of the
students there as a result of the war, many of whom
live on one very poor meal a day, and sleep out of
doors or in railway stations. She stated that $15
will support one student for a year,

 

NOTICE !

Under the auspices of the S. C. M., an address on Korea will be given in the Munro Room
by Rev. E. J. O. Fraser at 3 P. M. Sunday,

January 21.

The New Canadian

“Beware of the easy solution and the narrow

provincial view,’ said Dr. EK. Il, Oliver of Saskatchewan, in his able and convincing address to the
Conference on “The New Canadian Situation”,

In considering this problem it is necessary, first,
to understand the people concerned, their good and
their evil characteristies, second, to remember that
they are human beings, and third, to trust each
other and time,

Many of the new Canadians have brought with
them the elements of both Bolshevism and Pacifism.
Which, if either, of these will develope depends on
how they are handled by those in authority.

It must also be remembered that while the
Kuropean immigrant if unassimilated is a menace
to Canadian civilization, at the same time that civilization is a menace to him,

ris menace to Canada is summed up when it is
aid that he brings Europe with him, ‘This is augmented by allowing an Old World people to svitle
in a new land in solid blocks, Many of these people are either unable or unwiling to enter into
Canadian citizenship, and tend toward the paganism
of the life of their community.

Canada’s menace to the immigrant is that of
a new land to an old people. This involves the dissipation of dreams, a degree of freedom far beyond
that to which the average European can readily aecommodate himself, the tyranny of un-neighborliness, and cleavage of family life due to ready adoption of Canadian customs and language by the children,

On the other hand the new Canadian’s valuable
contributions to the national life must be considered,
He is willing to pioneer, has a desire to engage in
mixed farming, and has done a great deal of the
country’s drudgery. Again, he infuses the national
blood with a new vitality, a diversity of talent which
is invaluable, and he hates war with all his heart
and soul,

In the discussion which fo.lowed Dr. Oliver’s
address the solution offered for the “new Canadian”
assimilation without

problem of intermarriage

and without rupture in orthodoxy. The immigration question as it affects British Celumbia was also
extensively discussed, In this conneciion was suggested suspenion of the influx of immigrants until
those already in the country are properly assimi
lated, C. M. O, (Med '27,)

EXCELSIOR !

A most unique occurrence, witnessed by nobody
but the participators took place while the Conference was in progress.

A party of Dalhousians, headed by Ches. Oake
and Herman Campbe!!, one day strolled down Yonge
St. and entered the Board of Trade Building. There
with all the “sang-froid” characteristic of Dalhousians when out of sight of their professors they
walked into the President’s office, audaciously. tweaked his ear and demanded to be shown over the building. Immediately impressed with the appearance of
these intruders he at once took them up to the roof,
which he informed them was on the top of the
highest building in the British Empire. So Syd.
tilchrist, always awake to the fitness of things, suggested that the Dal. yell be given—-and it was.

The Senate and Board of Governors should see
to it that these enthusiastic students be awarded an
honorary degree, or something similar, in recognition of their having “elevated” Da! spirit to so high
a peak, SCRIBE,

LOST—By University of New Brunswick, one
female student—last seen on St. Catherine St.,
Montreal, with Max MeOdrum.,

 

 
f

Ps

 

 
 

4

ee eee
NE

eK New Responsibilities

The Conference devoted the second day of the
New Year to a discussion of Canada’s recent attainment to national status within the British Commonwealth.

Hon, N. W. Rowell, in an address which preceded a very spirited dscussion, urged that students
ever hold in mind “four cardinal principles,” when
thinking wpon Canada’s future international policy.

First,—"‘Rights involve’ responsibilities.” Canada
now has actual national obligations,—her part in the
Great War, her present status within the Commonwealth and her membership in such organizations
as the League of Nations are indicative of her new
nationhood. ‘We have taken our place amongst the
nations and must play our part.” Canada has responsibilities to Humanity—sacred obligations, the
fulfillment of which might well be looked upon as a
national mission.

Second,—lhere is a dire necessity of an ethical
basis for international relations.” Mr. Rowell dwelt
upon the calamitous results that have followed upon
breaches of international good faith in times past,
instancing Germany’s action in 1914 and the Allies’
actions since the ratification of the Treaty of VerGood faith must be observed between nain the new order. “Let

gailles.
tions as between individuals
us do right internationally.”

Third,—““Lhe new way should be co-operation for
peace, not competition in war.” The world ig sadly
in need of help. Poverty, disease and their allies
would be far more worthy objects of wars of extermination than sister nations,

Fourth—In the interest of world progress and
humanity’s advancement “reason must be substituted for the sword ag a means of settling international
disputes.” While admitting many imperfections in
the League of Nations the speaker yet commended it
heartily as “our most effective instrument for the
attainment of this end.”

Canadian students must bear their share of the
world’s and of Canada’s burden. The speaker suggested five duties:

l. ‘Chat every effort be made to understand the
present international situation.

2, ‘that those who are to be citizens and leaders
in tomorrow’s political life prepare themselves for
intelligent and sympathetic leadership.

3. ‘Lhat students and all other friends of the
new way “shouid look with encouragement upon all
experiments in bona fide international co-operation.

4, ‘Uhat Canadians should strive earnestly as interpreters between the peoples of Britain and
America.

5. ‘ihat every support should be given to the
League of Nations.

Perhaps the most interesting outgrowth of the

‘diseussion following this address was the action

taken upon an “International Scholarships Resolution.” ‘Lhe resolution was long and involved but in
substance requested the Canadian Government to set
aside some $260,000 yearly for the establishment of
scholarships in Canadian Universities for British
and foreign students to the number of 60 or 90, and
of scholarships in foreign universities for some 15
Canadian university graduates, All of this is with
the purpose of promoting better understanding between Canada and th other nations,

Debate on thie resolution waxed very warm indeed. Many of the students apparently realized that

4m their attitude to this question was to be mirrored

in parvo the international attitude of the Canadian
_ people, and this honest interest and desire
for truth and justice was one of the clearest notes

., founded in the Conference,
M, M. MoO. ( Arta ’23).

aa 5°
a» ¢
ae) APD oy

Sie SENIOR DANCE PROBABLY FEB, 2.

 
  

a ei eS ae A Ss 7 So Rte ite ay #) x nm yn rt P b> af i =) "Er a eT a

+ aso) ee i i TPA Sm Te 7 a Ca aoe 4 / ser Uh) eget. cy

5 : : ¢ a ree ve yee te “yy o 4 Pa wnt i! ae f rast "at ype , .

y . Fates Ce eR cele ree, pe OE ad *) | eh
Pe Ce a ae tei, 2 ech ME vey La .
. 4 7
¥ ‘

Frankness a Paramount Feature

In all discussions at the Conference the prevailing tone was that of frankness. From, and including, Lord Byng’s address on “Character” on the
opening night to the very close of the Conference,
this note prevailed. It was plain that students
have come to the conclusion that the time for sneaking implications and “back alley” whisperings is
past, and'bhat plain, frank expression of one’s ‘honest beliefs and ideas and similar healthy criticiem of
the other fellow’s is the best method for reaching
common ground and bettering existing conditions.

‘hat the outstanding men who addressed the
Conference believe this may be shown by one of
many possible examples. Senator Belcourt, of Quebec, in dealing with the Anglo-French question in
Canada, told the Conference, a large number of
whom were Ontario students, that ignorance on the
part of the Ontario man is at the root of the
trouble. “You Ontario people do not know the
French-Canadian,” he said. “Know him, and give
him a chance to know you, and conditions will be
bettered,”

The Conference was told by Jews and Mohammedans that Christians should not sit on a lofty
elevation and fail to recognize the good in other religions, or at least fail to give that good a chance
to show itself.

A disappointing feature of the Conference was
the small number of Roman Catholic representatives.
Kor any success in grappling with Canadian problems ali Christians must be united in their aims.

A fine spirit of toleration. dominated the Conference. There was always the desire shown to meet
the other fellow halfway. Here is a lesson for us
at Dalhousie, Let us make the Student Christian
movement a bigger thing in our University.

G. M. (Law ’25).

“SPORTING GOOD WILL”

Dr. Richard Roberts, of Montreal, addressed the
Conference on. Sunday morning, Dec. 31.

“Jesus’ message to the world is that of hazardous
benevolence and sporting good-will as a solution of
the problems of the day.” He said that the world
must get rid of the middle class Anglo-American
conception of what Christianity is, With great earnestness he denounced the modern doctrine of success
as the greatest swindle of the day. What we want,
he said, is a real revolution not a redistribution,
not a change of top-dog but a revolution of spirit
in @ociety. The only hope for the world is a policy
based on faith, love, and a sporting good-will.

The Man and the Woman.

To many students the most striking address’ of
the Conference was that given on Sunday afternoon
by Dr. Herbert Gray on “The Relationship of the
Sexes.” Men and women are different in their outlook, he stated, and therefore in working, playing,
worshipping, and thinking together they naturally
benefit each other.” Man by himself is not the
human unit; nor is woman by herself; but the man

and the woman together.
W. 8S, G. (Med ’25.)

 

THE WORLD NEEDS
PRACTICAL CHRISTIANITY

Asia and Africa Seek Truth.

At the Conference, the continent of

Africa was represented by Prof. Aggrey
China by Prof. Hung and Dr. Hsu, an
India by Mr. Sw . These speak
_ ers set forth the varying conditions, so-—

ial, and political, which are influencing —
those countries t
ing Sey ee the son of a oan

¥ iy i \
; : a
= = i ;
en t ;

‘ Na gales it shah ig: 2 hoe % Ma
‘ i he. i Pa we aoe ena a 4! Pe i 7: a i
- aa Se fel 4 Hi fs Bey: :

Me " ii

 

 

nibal chief and at the age of adolescence
eame into contaet with the missionaries
through their school. One of the best
arguments for Christian missions is
that these speakers are products of their
influence.

Prof. Aggrey appealed to the Canadians to help emancipate his people just
as in the days of slavery they helped
emancipate the slaves by smuggling them
across the border into Canada, ‘‘You
helped free the slave. Now free the
man !’’ he said.

The speakers from China described
the changes which are taking place in
the minds of the Chinese people. The
new ‘Student Movement’’ in China has
the same ideals as the Canadian, but in
order that they may realize their ideals
they need the principles of Christianity.

Mr. Swamidos called attention to the
fact that although India once had a very
live religion of her own it has reverted
to mere formalism. What India needs
today, in his opinion, is the Christ of the
Gospels, rather than a picture of Him
covered with centuries of theological
dust. M. MeK. (Arts ’23.)

THE CODE OF A GOOD SPORT.

1. Thou shalt not quit.

2. Thou shalt not alibi.

3. Thou shalt not gloat over winning.

4. Thou shalt not be a poor loser.

5. Thou shalt not take unfair advantage.

6. Thou shalt not ask odds thou art
unwilling to give.

7. Thou shalt always be ready to give

thine opponent the shade.

8. Thou shalt not underestimate an
opponent, or overestimate yourself.

9, Thou shalt root with all thy might,
but in rooting, a good sport will
root right.

10. Honor the game thou playest, for
he who playeth the game straight
and hard wins even when he

loses.
‘Dr. Gym.”’

LOST—In Columbus Hall, Toronto, six dollars,
by Larry McKenzie. Gone forever,

 

There are still a few good rooms
available for students. Rate
$8.75 per week. Application
ee ee
the Manager, Mr. W. Nisbet, or
to any of the members of the

ri

eevee ey) ee
MME Sey M ag hire.

 
  

‘you ‘and to me that cannot be mistaken.

(alk ‘Christ you can find the way to that experi
 

THE CHALLENGE

The closing night of the Conference had eome.
For five days there had been sitting together, hearing the same lectures, thinking along the same lines,
and diseussing the same problems, representatives
of eighteen nationalities and of three religious, From
day to day they had heard the authoritative presentaijmof the problems of Canadian national life.
logether they had beeen moved by the burning appeal
of Professor Aggrey, an African native, that his
people, in the “land of the question mark,” might
be given a place in the world. Together they had
heard the way of the Christian life expounded by
Dr, Herbert Gray, one of its great teachers. Together
iy had been swept off their feet by the tremendcus fact that in lands of the east and lands of the
west toere is a real longing for a new way of life;
and toat the youth of all these lands are shaking
tuemselves free of the harness of tradition in a
desperate determination to find that way.

From left and right of the auditorium had been
exchanged a fusilade of questions and replies; from
among the guests in the centre had come the reproach of the Mohammedan and of the Jew that the
pages of Christian history are streaming with
blood. After five evenings of grinding Pen it
had grown upon the consciousness of at Christian, Mohammedan and Jew are agreed upon the
one principle of a solution of the wonld-problems
before them, namely that of the brotherhood of man,

So it was that a great question arose in the
minds of some, ‘The question was this: If it be
true that Mohammedan, Jew and Christian alike
find in their religion this great fundamental principle, is the word “Christian” in the name of our
movement a necessary thing? May Christ be left
out of it?

On this last evening David Ketchum of Toronto,
stood on the platform and in a clear, ineisive, unemotional way gave to the conference an anawer out
of hie own experience, Said he: “This feeling of
brotherhood, of friendship between all peoples, which
we are now all enjoying, cannot be real if it is only
a pleasant, gentle, emotional reaction to the presence of other people. There must be a power, a
force, a life behind it all. Man has a biological experience common to all animals—that of living,
producing young, and dying; but there is an experience possible to man which transcends thie biological experience. It does seem to be, in fact is possible for men and women to act as a channel for that
power, that force, that life to flow through. There
is no possibility of mistaking that experience when
it comes. There ig something which can happen to
If you
place yourself so that this life can flow through you,
you find everything changed, even the look of the
scenes. amd the people about you. It makes life a
thing of such surpassing beauty that one minute
of it is worth ten thousand life-times without it.
When yow have once got it, you have to let other
people know about it, and you are perfeotly willing
to have it desenibed as anyone chooses,

_It is love, invigorating, making one keener in: mind

and stronger in body, It is love unlimited in scope
and unsounded in strength.
But how to get it? There is—known to me—ne

better description of the way how than that found in.
the. biography of Christ: There may be a different

way, but it ie not yet known to me. We cannot get
away from that story because in it. lies, in small
compass, so that we may all have it, the secret of this

life-giving power. The name of this power is Love.

If we do not get down to that, all thie talk that
has, ‘Weer going on here evaporates. into nothing at

it. Soe eee

 
 

 

A GROUP OF MARITIME DELEGATES AT HART HOUSE, TORONTO.

Photo by C. J. W. B. (Arts, 24)

Ee

Thus the question was left open to be decided
by the non-Christian for himself—whether or not
he could find that experience without Christ. But
to many in whose hearts was pulsing the joy of this
ever-renewing life, the answer of their whole being
found expression when Professor Aggrey walked up
the steps to the platform and, with radiant face, led
the great audience in the song, “All Hail the Power
of Jesus’ Name.”

M. I. K, (Arts, ’23).,

 

LOOK HERE MAN!

At time of goin going to press the Med. Dance
was tentatively scheduled for Thursday, Jan, 18,
at the Auditorium. Better see your Med. friends
about your tickets by 7

THE DRA DRAGON.

On the afternoon of December 29th the Dramatic Society of the University of Toronto gave a special presentation of “The Dragon” at the Hart House
Theatre.

The large number of the Conference delegates
who attended were delighted not only with the charm
of the play itself but with the ability of the cast.
The dances by the pupils from the Margaret Eaton
School of Expression were also exceptionally well
done. ;

“Lhe Dragon”, by Lady Gregory, is a decidedly
humorous allegory expressive of Irish folk lore and
abounds in whimsicality. Many of the situations

_ and lines are subtly satirical concerning the frail
‘ties and foibles of mere man, Miss Kathleen Ewen
as the Princess Nuala, and Mr. H. EB, Hitchmam as
the King, were excellent,

T, M. ©. (Med ’27,)

 

AN EMINENT BRITISHER

WILL SOON VISIT DALHOUSIE

Dr. Herbert Gray is a Seotsman, born in Edinburgh and a graduate of the famous University situated there. He was for several years the minister
of Grosvenor Square Church in Manchester and
while there came in close contact with industrial
problems and the conditions of the working class
life. Since that time much of his energy has been
taken up in interpreting the chureh to labor and
labor to the church, Later he was called to an important charge in Glasgow where his distinguished
services were recognized by the conferring: on him
of the D. D. of Glasgow University, Under the con
straint of duty however he relinquished his place
ee ee eee

   

 
 

 

another part of the city. This is characteristic of
the man. Dr. Gray is first and foremost a great
Christian,

During the war period Dr. Gray served for 18
months in Franee as Chaplain of a Scottish Regiment and because of his intimate brotherly spirit
was allowed into a very close and intimate association with the thoughts and convictions of the men
of the army, As a result he was able to see the
church with the eyes of the ordinary man and from
his war experience wrote the book, “As Tommy
Sees Us,” dedicating it to the memory of the brave
men alive and dead of the 16th and 17th Highland
Light Infantry—the regiment with which ne gerved. Dr, Gray is a man who voices hig own convictions and in this book does not hesitate to state
his opinions regardless of the fact that they were
hurtful to many church people,

At present, Dr. Gray is engaged in student work
with the British Christian Student Movement, and
especially in promoting the continuance of the spirit
of the Movement among students who have left
college and are engaged in the work of the world,

“Varsity.”

 

Among those taking | part in the discussion on
International problems were Piet Reest of Holland;
Hans ‘Tiesler of Germany; and Jorgen Holek of
Denmark. They explained the problems of their
own countries,

LOST—In Toronto, between Public Library and
Union Station, Charlie Baxter, If picked up please

return to Dalhousie,

ALLEN’S
THE LEADING BOOKSTORE |
————————————————————
PORTRY, FICTION, “Bie
School and College Text

Books, : Supplies of

Commercial and Society Stationery.
-—Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

TT. C. ALLEN & CO.

_ 124-126 GRANVILLE S8T., HALIFAX, N.S,

 

 
  
    
 

 

LLL LL A
ned ee

SS ———————————————

=_—e 7, A ee Pe 4 tg te - P rt r U; ae rs
ae + , eT) ry mAb LY Mapa Ie) wy Len Are Pre
te" % “at op ja, > ee oie Ha es A ieee ears aM lp ‘ ;
rH ' ‘ : / ot
: ym ‘ ;

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Package of 16 
Enamel Tin

ei

e §50» JOO -#1

fbn sata yi Feel. TRO
f N rs ayes re 7 i
Sh u eae Fy we Ae ne ee ee ets ee! me
} ores ye : af

LLL LL TL TT a Tee a eT TT
eltae Site a) ie re I ey orem RES ,* ‘ , } meee

2 o x *. es % 9 ty Ky

 

Tigers In Brilliant Games

Playing two brilliant and hardfought games at
the Arena, Dalhousie’s hockey team maintained its
record of good sport last week. Winning one game
and losing the other by a one point margin in each
case meant rather strenuous work, but the boys
were right there when it came to putting zest into
the game. The Gold and Black look good for a
place at the top of the City League again this year,
but will certainly be hard pressed by both Dartmouth and the Wanderers.

The first game against Dartmouth on Tuesday
evening, was remarkably fast considering the soft
ice and with both teams extended to the limit the
spectators were treated to thrills aplenty. When
Captain Fabie Bates, just twenty-two seconds before
the final whistle, sent the puck rolling gently into
the Blue and White’s goal to smash a tieless score,
he clinched for Dal what might have been until then
anybody’s game. Even then it must be admitted that
Dal had the break in the game, for two of the boys
from across the Harbor were just then perched on
the boards, having been banished thence by an all
seeing referee.

“Duke” McIsaac was up to his usual standard
in this game, which is a mighty high one. Of the
other Dal players Bates was outstanding, his back
checking and stickhandling being superb. “Brick”
Morrison‘ made his Halifax debut and showed that
he has real senior class.

For Dartmouth, MacKay, the recruit from
Springhill, showed that he is not only a speedy,
good all-round hockeyist, but also that he knows
how to play clean. He is the nearest thing to
Bates in the City League, but Fabie has the edge.

In this game the Tigers had the best of the
first period, the Darts the second, while the last
was pretty even going.

On Friday night the game between the Wanderers and Dalhousie was the most brilliant and
exciting exhibition of hockey played within the
memory of most Halifax fans. With an ideal ice
surface and two evenly matched teams, both of
whose forward and defence lines were made up of
players all good and with no individual starring
far above the rest, the display of stickhandling,
backehecking, combination, and individual work was
absolutely superb.

McKay in goal for the Red and Black put up
a brilliant game, but the shining star of the evening was undoubtedly “Duke” MeIsaac. He certainly maintained his reputation of being the premier
goal tender in Maritime circles,

The first period was slightly Wanderer’s, ending 2 to 0 in their favor.

Shortly after the beginning of the second stanza Morrison came on for Dal, and immediately
started something. Within three minutes the score
was tied. A pretty piece of combination by Bates
and Morrison drew out McKay for the first score.
Hardly had the commotion susbided when Bates
took Morrison’s pass and notched up the second.
Then Haslam was sent to the box and Arthur put
the Red Shirts in the lead again. With three
minutes left in the period McKenna followed in fast
and beat McKay on a rebound from Bates’ shot.

Seore 3 all,

Although the second period was Dal’s, the third
was pretty even. Play gee-sawed for four minutes,
teams getting within the danger zone. Then

7 é
bc apa Din topped off a sensational rush by put
Irae, aro. eer ‘Cae aT Sp mS mek Gales
POPE, Le cee ee A fe eee ea

m9
we

/ “HE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

MclIsaac Stars In City League

ting a sizzler past McKay, The Tigers held the
lead until the last two minutes, with both goals
being stormed incessantly, and the defence men kept
hard at work. Then Haslam was banished for, a
third penalty. cause unknown, and an offside goal
by Beazley, which the. referees apparently failed to
see, tied the score once more,- Then, to make a real
sensation, Lane and Hunter managed to get inside the Tiger defence and, shooting from about
four feet out, put the dise behind the “Duke” and
took the lead. For the last few moments of the
game the Tigers drove hard in an attempt to regain the advantage, but with a three man defence.
the Red Shirts proved unbeatable. Final score,
5 to 4,

That the game was remarkably clean was due
certainly to the calibre of the players, but no doubt
also to the strictness of the referees. Haslam played a good game for Dal, and his being in the penalty box at a critical moment doubtless paved the way
for the Wanderers’ win. It is probably right that
his being there was due to a case of mistaken identity by the referee as to who really infringed the
rules at that time,

Line up: Dalhousie—MelIsaac, Goal; Haslam
and Dunlop, Defence; Bates, McKenna and Dunn,
Forwards; Morrison, Sub.

Wanderers—McKay, Goal; Lilly and Lake, Defence; F. Lane, Hunter and Beazley, Forwards;
Arthur, T, Lane, and Cahill, Subs.

Dartmouth—Tobin, Goal; Hickey, McKay, Defence; G. Dunn, Beazley, and McIntosh, Forwards;
Robinson and Jackson, Subs. H. R,

City Hockey League Schedule

Jan, 19—Crescents vs. Dalhousie.

Jan. 23—Dartmouth vs. Wanderers,

Jan. 26.—Wanderers vs. Crescents.

Jan. 30.—Dalhousie vs. Dartmouth.

Feb, 2—Dartmouth vs. Wanderers.

Feb. 6—Dalhousie vs. Crescents,

Feb. 13—Dalhousie vs. Wanderers.

Feb. 16—Dartmouth vs. Crescents.

Note—We publish herein dates of City League
games still to, be played in case some of our readers
desire a ready reference.—Sports Hd,

 

INTERFACULTY HOCKEY
SCHEDULE.

Jan. 13, Law vs. Arts.

Jan. 20, Dents vs. Meds.

Jan. 27, Commerce vs. Winner of 1.

Feb. 3, Winner of 2 vs. Winner of 3.

Games to start at 7.30 p. m. sharp, at

Arena.
Three fifteen minute periods to be

played. ‘‘D’’ men barred.

eer

 

Arts eliminated Law from the Interfaculty Hockey contest by trouncing
them 3 to 0 in the hockey fixture at the
Arena on Saturday night. Lougheed in
goal for Law was the salvation of the
game both from a spectator’s and a
“Legalite’s’’ point of view. He was
right there when it came to stopping
the hot ones. |

Another Basketball Win

Dalhousie’s Varsity ‘‘Five’’ won
their second game in the Senior City
Basketball League on-.Saturday night
when they trimmed St. George’s 31 to
8. The Tigers had the edge all through
and although the Saints had hard luck
on some of their shots, it was plain that
thev were never dangerous.

Mader and Muir were the high
scorers for Dal, getting 9 and 8 points,
respectively.

Line-up :—Dalhousie—Wilson, Mader,
Grant, Coster, McOdrum, Muir.

St. George’s — Kellen, Morrison,
James, Murphy, Mahon, Baker, Mitchell,

The Wanderers and the Y. M. C. A.
nlaved a close and strenuous game, the
Red Shirts getting the long end of the
26 to 14 score.

Both games were featured by excellent guarding, resulting in an unusually
large amount of long distance shooting.

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL
SCHEDULE.

Jan. 16, Dents vs. Law.

Jan. 23. Meds vs. Arts.

Fef. 2, Winner of 1 vs. Winner of 2.
All games to be played at Studley.
‘<T)’? men barred.

wn

The next game will see the Dal hockey team somewhat reorganized due to
the absence of ‘‘Bricky’’?’ Dunn from
the forward line. Rumor is that the
‘Sorrel top’? will be seen with the
‘‘Half Moons’ for the rest of the
season.

The Dal hockey management is to
be congratulated on securing.the new
winged ‘*D’’ uniforms for the Tigers.
The collarless jerseys give a cleancut,
smart anpearance that is causing much
favorable comment about the city.

  
   

  
      
     
   
   
   
     
     
    
      
    
    
  

THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC GOODS

Including Spalding’s
Famous Goods.
Hockey Sticks, Pucks, etc.

Here you will find. men of
your own age and interests
to serve you with things you
want at prices you can pay.

yo 1.
GRANVILLE STREET

 
  
PLT SRM ge RT eT mT
Fay a i

Pee 4. PF ae
ee > eh Se - as
. ”
: =

a or
me in
, ’ 
ar

   
    

   

oe
«

wine

i:

Cir a ae er a a Ge ee ravi
V2" : y Ca ay a, i GPs q As, TH , i

UTES TR Na ae ek SRR eh age). eg

| : i } a [ j . im 6 oe r 1 \ m9 - at

ae ee er a eee Tr ie eae Tray
ee PE NS A aaa) ROM CTY, YEO ey aT The ch te Tae, aie, ee y
ee ty ; WES Boe Sta) ee a i ” | a

 

YOKOHAMA MAID

January 22nd and 23rd have been
chosen for the staging of the Japanese
Operetta ‘‘The Yokohama Maid’’ at the
Majestic Theatre. Monday evening will
be Dalhousie night and it expected that

the classes will purchase their tickets .

en bloc in order that the various class
yells may -be-given with greater effect.
Exchange tickets are now on sale and
may be had from the members of the
Club. ,
The Operetta was composed ‘by
Arthur C. Penn and is in two parts. It
is being staged under the capable direction of Mrs, G. Fred Pearson and Mr.
O’Connell. Miss Gladys Billman and
Mr. Basil Courtney are playing the
leads. Mr. O’Connell is supervising the
stage setting. Taken altogether this
Operetta promises to be a huge success.
The Glee Club Orchestra will augment
the Majestic Orchestra.

This Operetta is the first of its kind
to be produced by Dal Students and
Mrs. Pearson has been most successful
in her endeavors to provide an excellent
musical setting.

Let us do our part to make Dal
night a real suecess and thus encourage
Dalhousie’s musical talent as they deserve. D, Ui %,

At The Majestic

The J. James Carrol Players with
the ever popular and versatile Miss
Edna Preston and the handsome Mr.
Thomas H. Hutchison, scored a decided
hit last week in the comiedy with a lesson, ‘*‘The Meanest Man in the World.”’
This production attracted capacity

houses all week, even to the Saturday .
- afternoon matinee, in spite of the storm.

This week the company is presenting ‘‘The Broken Wing,’’ a Mexican
Romance which ran for two years in
New York. An unusual scenic feature
is provided when the hero comes crashing through the roof of the heroine’s
bungalow in an aeroplane. It is a fine
example of how a man may literally
‘fall for a woman.’ This play proves

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

 

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
123 YOUNG STREET

HATS BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

HENRY s. CORREA: +14 920 )eroiesers sui setetuea os

 

NUTS AND BOLTS
(BY MUN K. RENCH)

Larry—Are any of the girls returning via Grand Trunk ?

Ozzie Crowell (hastily)—‘‘I am’,

 

A young girl, feeling disquieted in
her mind, went to her priest and said—
‘“‘Father, | want to confess to-you. A
young man kissed me last week.’’

The priest replied slowly ‘‘Well, my
daughter, tell me, how many times did
he kiss you?’

‘‘Father,’’ the girl answered reproachfully, ‘‘I came here to confess,
not to boast!’

 

Max—Gee ! This is a rough roadbed.

Morton—We’ll send Livingston out
to ‘‘clean it up’’.

An American Y, M. C. A. man told
the Conference that he was going back
home to tell his Association about our
Conference, rather in the mood of the
smiall boy who was given an ostrich-egg.
He took it out to his hen-coop, and laying it down by the coop, said, ‘*Old hen,
I don’t want to criticize, but this just
shows what can be done.”

 

Railway Porter—(referring to Pulman load of Maritime girls) :—‘‘Dem
gals is just like a lot o’ kids. Ah calls
‘em ma kindagatten, Ah does.’’

 

Qhinese speaker: —‘‘Speaking of
diet, you. Canadians hear that we eat
rats in China, and you are horrified.
Well, we in China hear that you eat
dogs—hot dogs. We too are shocked.”

 

 

that love is apt to come to the modern
girl straight from the heavens at almost any time.

~ Next week, following the ‘‘Yokohama Maid,’’ the Players will be seen
for two days in ‘‘The Ghost Between,’
and then on Friday and Saturday of
that week in ‘Little Lord Fauntleroy’’
with Miss Preston in the title role.

   

Dalhousie Headquarters for
Sporting Goods

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. We can
en Se ee ae

Knives, Razors,
Shaving Supplies. —
We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys
and Stockings.

 
   
 

      
  

     
 

 

 

1$25 $19.50

 

Phone Sack. 1392

 

| Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd.

Changed from

Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.
TWO STORES

26 Spring Garden Road

119 Young Street

GENERAL DRY GOODS
READY TO WEAR

"’ LINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING.
Correct Styles. Lowest Prices,

WALK UPSTAIRS AND
SAVE TEN

MILLION DOLLAR STOCK
DISPOSAL

My entire stock of Suits and Overcoats

to be sold at
$31.50 |

NOTHING RESERVED.

| Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington Street

MADER’S CAFE

(Open Day and Night)

Now’s the Time for

Roast Chicken
and OYSTERS

15 GRANVILLE STREET

HALIFAX, N. 8.

     
   
   
   
