 

Vol. LIV.

——_—_—_—<—$———$$

—Founpep 1869—

IssueD WEEKLY. ONE DoLtuAR Per YEAR.

Business Manager - - J, R. NICHOLSON, B. A.

‘i 77 Queen Street.

Editor C. F. BOWES, B, A.

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable
_.to the Business Manager.

Associate Editors

Miss E1ceEN BURNS Miss MABEL MORRISON
D. C, CoLQuHOUN R, F, CALLAN

M. ©, CLay ©. R. Baxter
G. C. MacLEop R. M, RICHARDSON
J. G, Fogo
Sports Editor ---- > J. A, DUNLOP

Special Reporters
Miss M. O. Mappen; Miss Roperta M. Forses

L. A. Munro; W. G. Porrrer
Miss J. O’CoNnNoR.

Be

  
  
  

EDITORIAL

   

Before the next number of the Gazette
appears the annual U.S. C. elections will
be over. Year before last ‘there was
a regular political campaign at the time
of these elections; stump speeches and
placards were sent broadcast and the
nominees split up into two rival parties.
In fact it had the Dominion Elections
beaten. Last year the election proved a
very quiet affair, due to the fact that
there was little or no rivalry among the
opposing forces; the elections next week
promise to be even more quiet. Class
1923 can elect 4; 1924 can elect 3 and
1925 2. Engineers can elect 1, Commerce
1 and one man is to be chosen from Arts
and Science for Freshman Representative, Hach class must nominate one-anda-half times as many candidates as they
are to elect, for example, Class 23 has
to elect 4; therefore they must nominate
6. Notices wll be posted on all the
notice boards giving full particulars before the event actually occurs.

We beg to call the attention of the
students to the fact that the new Gym
Gazette

staff.

FOUNDED 1869

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

goes, and the rules against smoking
should be strictly enforced.
* * * *

It-is the intention of the Editorial
Board of the Gazette to issue a Memorial Number for the late Dean Woodbury, probably about the last of March
or the first of April. Any suggestions
for the same would be welcomed by the

ra

SENATE: ATTENTION PLEASE.

There have been many near-accidents during the past week due'to the
dangerous conditions of the walk and
paths about the college buildings at
Studley. This is a matter about which
something should be done immediately
before someone is seriously hurt.
Surely ashes are not so scarce or 80 expensive but that a small quantity of
them might be used on these icy thoroughfares. Don’t wait until some student or member of the faculty breaks a
limb on these walks; fix them up NOW.

D. A. A. C. MEETING.

The D. A. A. C. tried to cram three
hours busimess into half an hour last
Tuesday, February 14th. President
Moore was in the chair and a few over
the quorum were present (about thirty).
There was ‘‘depe speech’’ about many
things, the question and status of an advisory board for athletics occuping the
larger part of the deliberations. The
usual committee was appointed—MacKenzie, Coster and one other who will
endeavor to arrive at some kind of a
satisfactory agreement. The annual
meeting of the Club will take place in
the first week in March.

STUDENTS COUNCIL MEETING!

The U. 8. C. met for an evening session on Friday, February 17th. Much

business was discussed. To begin with
there was one or two unfortunates up
for a violation of the rules in reference
to smoking in the restricted areas at
Studley. — in the New Gym also
came up for consideration and it was decided ‘to issue a strong statement in the
Gazette setting forth the reasons for the
rule against the use of ‘‘My Lady Nicotine’’ on the playing floor.

occupied the attention of

nasium is not a smoking eporium; the Finances

entire building is constructed of wood, the Vouncil for an hour or so. It was

except for the roof framework and a felt that the present system was altoerious fire mi from gether too loose, and a committee was

 

eppointed to go into the whole ‘matter
_ and submit recommendations as to how

The Dalhousie Gazette

 

 

the matter could be remedied. MceInnes, Chipman, Munroe, McLeod and
Porier were named by the chair to undertake the task.

Criticism has appeared that the
Council are not meeting frequently
enough, and the general deduction
drawn seemed to be that herein lay the
source of the lack of college spirit. The
council at their first meeting decided

~ “that in future” all, purely routitie “busi
ness—permission for dances, minor
complaints, etc., could be better dealt
with by the Executive Committee than
by the whole council. Hence the lack
necessity of fortnightly or monthly
meetings.

Wanted--More Money

In 1912, the United Students Council came into being as the direct gov
erning body of the students of Dalhousie University. With this representative body, one member for every twenty-five students in the college, the Senate agreed to conduct all business relating to student activities, and also to
collect at registration the sum of five
dollars from every regular student,
which money was to be handed over to
the Secretary-Treasurer of the Council to be experided as the Council saw
fit, Many causes chief among them,
the growth_of the University and the
consequent expansion in both the number and scope of the Dalhousie societies, and the lower purchasing power of
the dollar, have contributed to make
this five dollar fee, inadequate to meet
the needs of today, and at the January
session of the Student’s Council, it was
proposed that the fee be increased to
ten dollars for every regular student.
Feeling, however, that in a matter of
this nature, the individual student
should be given a chance to express his
wshes, the council agreed to refer the
matter to the students and the question
will appear on the regular ballot of ‘the
U. 8. C. elections to be held on March
7th. |

The system of the distribution and
expenditure of the students’ money,
evolved in 1912, has also proven unsatisfactory during the past year or two.
Under this system every society entitled to draw money submitted its budget
for the year to the Secty.-Treasurer
before the first meeting of the council.

“Then followed an annual debate in the

council lasting sometimes two, three or

(Continued on page 4)
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 3

 

 

 

2 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

a ae — Serene ee

WHAT THE FACULTIES DOIN

 

.

 
    

     
 

  

 

GLEANINGS FROM THE RESIDENCES

 

 

PINE HILL

The great annual affair, the Pine
Hill ‘‘At Home’’, was held on Monday
night, Feb. 20th. It was a grand and
glorious success. Owing to the jump
of fifty degrees the thermometer made,
in the preceding twenty-four hours, and
a shower of rain, the streets were
rather moist. A half dozen taxies furnished transportation from Inglis St. to
the residence.

Fair ones from every faculty and
class attended the ‘‘At Home’’. From
the City, Imperoyal, Dartmouth and
Armdale, they came. Invitations had
gone even farther. Some left Truro,
Pictou and far-away Tatamagouch, days
before, in order to be present. The
guests were received at the college by
Mrs. (Dr.) MacKinnon ‘and Mrs. (Prof)
Shaw. Dr. Kent, in a happy little speech
welcomed the ladies to our monastic
halls. The ‘‘curtain’’ was then drawn
and the show commenced.

Into a court-room (made by piling
tables and camouflaging tliem with red
blankets) stalked the judge, counsel on
the offence and defence, and the clerk.
The intelligent countenances of Gillis,
J. D. MacLeod, Patterson and Dave
Marshall could be distinguished through
fierce disguises. Britton, an ideal
‘“eop,’’ brought in the prisoner, the
admirable admiral, Wm. Bill Jelico
Jones of the good ship Delta Gamma.
Bill was a sailor. A sailor has a wife
in every port. Bill must therefore have
more than one wife. Henve the trial.

The faree was very humorous.
George Green as chairman of the jury
and Cliff Grant as a ‘‘drunk’’ brought
forth great applause. J. P. ©. and
King sang very accepvably. Milne
Blanchard (as deserted wife) was well
worth the price of admission. When
the prisoner was declared, guilty and
chose to be hung rather than study Hebrew, the show naturally ended and
ended naturally...

Everyone then went to the Residence
which was artistically decorated. The
pretty gowns of the ladies added a
pleasing variety of color to the gold and
black, blue and white decorations.
Someone, in a bygone centurt, said:

‘‘My Love in her attire, c oth show

her wit, |

It doth so well become her....”’

Every male thought thus, on Monday

‘cht. Be

After a repast of various delicious
: , Principal MacKinnon introdue
Honor, Governor| Grant.
charmed us all by his

   

meeting of that Socie

   

higher regions and found cosy corners
for the five minute chats with different
partners. The rooms were decoraed by
different faculties; the most prominent
display being ‘‘Kngineering’’ and
‘Medicine’, The happy crowd dispersed about twelve thirty. Each person proclaimed the ‘‘At Home’’ the
best ever. Great credit is due the committee, headed by John MacNeil, for
the successful way in which they handled the affair.

UNIVERSITY HALL

Still the sickness comes and goes.
J. L. Wickwire, D. Cochrane, Harvey
and Bayer have all been laid up for a
few days. Archie Robertson has appeared back on the scene again and appears none the worse for his enforced
vacation.

Visitors lately included Dr. H. L.
Stewart and Dean McRae.

All the boys wish to extend their
sympathy to Claude Richardson in his
sad bereavement.

Such glowing reports of the class
22 time at Dr. MecIntosh’s came back
as to make some of the other classes
wish they had adopted Dr. and Mrs. McIntosh for their stay in Halifax—the
classes stay—of course.

Tue Social function of the college
year passed by with little undue excitement. One of our members was the
victim of a frame-up between some
practical wits around the ‘‘Marlboro’’.
Another had a four mile walk—two and
back—to Armdale. Both gentlemen are
very modest so we dare not mention
names or details. We did hear some
growling over the floor but surely that
$100 a month gym instructor can find
time to keep that polished—besides
dusting all the physical training apparatus.

Considerable excitement was caused
by a young fire in the ground floor last
Saturday. It was discovered in time to
prevent serious damage to the building.
Like all fires it was due to carelessness
on the part of the inmates of the room.
They wanted the room warm when they
came back from class and nearly had it
hotter than they bargained for.

Speaking of the D. A. A. C., we wish
to make the suggestion that the Annual
this year tbe
held in the evening voting be conducted along the lines of the U. 8S. C.
election.

Prof. Dawson was called away last
week by the death of his sister in
Truro. We wish to extend our

' alaaii tua

  

 

 

J ;

ed visit over the week end. F. L.
‘‘Dinty’’ Moore was also around.
Some Dalhousie magnates did some
‘‘high’’ financing for the Acadia-Dalbasketball game. Fifty cents is all
right with a dance thrown in but—! !
THE “‘SCRIBH”’.

THE MARLBOROUGH
A BALLAD OF CONTENT.

Something strange has happened
And all that we can say

Is ‘‘Thank goodness it did happen
Sincerely, every day. .

It began with Friday’s luncheon
By a choice of fish or meat
Catsup and mustard pickles

And jelly roll to eat.

Thus cheered, our sturdy spirits
Hardly dared to hope for more
With bated breath at dinner time
We glanced towards the door

We saw before our faces

Nice soup all steaming up
And after jolly good old steak
Kat coffee and cream puffs.

We cry no more for chicken

No more need Thelma say—
‘‘Don’t ask for poultry, children,
The food’s foul’’ anyway. )

We’re enjoying every meal
And thankful all are we

We struggled hard to get it
In satisfaction now agree.

We have no more kick coming,

The rules are well kept too

There’s not a howling row or deck
The whole long evening thru.

As I’ve said—the meals are better

But still we hope at that

With all the great improvement

We won’t get too darned fat.
Ain’t Nature an

HEARD HERE AND THERE.

‘We have trains in the Old Coun
that can beat the American trains
to pieces’’, said the ee a to the

Yankee, ‘‘Why, our Flying does 85
on ‘eat nothing” lied
Yankee, ‘‘our Tesnaueainaliael moves

so mighty quick that a

  

  

out of the window to kiss his

CLASS ’22.

One evening last week Dr. and Mrs.
MacIntosh entertained the members of
Class ’22 at one of the jolliest socials
which that class has enjoyed in its
course. Despite the disagreeable weather every member of the class was present with the exception of the treasurer.

After the usual selection of partners
by lottery, so characteristic of Class ’22,
fortunes were told. Miss Mabel Morrison distinguished herself in this art and
was awarded a prize; Miss Cummings
told: her own fortune with such exactness that she, too, was awarded a premium.

Then, ..followed a. spelling match.
Miss Muriel Kent acted as professor
asking the poor students such jaw
crackers as. they had never heard before. It was discovered that the class
consisted of many poor spellers; only
three out of fifty members could stand
the test. Eileen Burns, Billy Forsyth
and Mona MacKinnon saved the reputation of the class by spelling every word
wth such exactness and ease that it was
felt necessary to award them with suitable prizes.

Then ‘‘pinning on the donkey’s tail’’
was played. At this Mr. Richardson and
Mr. Colquhoun proved themselves most
efficient and hit the mark. They were
awarded handsome volumes of Ford’s
Jokes while the committee consoled
HKileen Burns by presenting her with
the boobie prize.

Some exhibitions of fancy dancing
took place. The prizes were awarded
to David Colquhoun /and Jean Fraser,
John Dunlop and Fern Oxley exhibited
marvellous talents and were subsequently awarded beautiful rings. ‘

The game of ‘‘charauds’’ was most
efficiently carried out as those taking
part proved themselves to be veritable
actors and actresses. It has since been
regretted that M. C. MacDonald was
not awarded a prize for the excellent
manner in which he played the part of a
society girl.

After the daintiest of refreshments
were served the jolly party disbanded
some wended their way homewards
others—? ? | |

Class ’22 will long remember Dr.

and Mrs. MacIntosh’s kindness, who

  
 
  
 
 
 

spared neither expense nor bother in giv
 

when the class shall have dispersed into
the ‘‘wide, wide world’’ one pleasant
memory they will ever cherish is that of
those evenings spent with Dr. and
Mrs. MacIntosh who by their cheery
dispositions and jovial manners knew
how to make boys and girls truly happy.
‘sR?

CLASS ’22.

The girls of Class ’22 held their last
annual gathering as undergraduates of
Dalhousie University in the Delta
Gamma rooms of the Science Building
on Wednesday, February 22. At six
o’clock a bountiful supper was placed on
the tables, and the ladies were conducted very formally to their seats. Miss
Kileen Burns, Vice-President of the
class, played hostess in her usual graclous style. It was a very merry group
who prepared to do full justice to the
good things provided; but gradually
the consciousness that this was our last
meeting together cast a gloom over all.
Fortunately the ginger ale was by this
time sparkling in the glasses, and the
toasts offered proved so clever and so
witty that regretful feelings were soon
banished.

Miss Violet Murray in an original
poem proposed the toast to our Alma
Mater. Miss Isabel Shaw very appropriately responded. ‘‘Toasting’’ the
professors seemed to meet wih general
approval, and cries of ‘‘Do it well!’’
greeted Miss Forsyth as she rose to
make her speech. Miss Annand undertook the difficult task of delivering a reply. ‘‘The boys’’ were remembered by
Miss Kent and Miss Madden’s response, true to nature, consisted chiefly
of advice to women. Miss Foote proposed a toast to the officers of the girls’
societies and Miss Burns expressed, on
behalf of these officers, their warmest
thanks.

Class ’22, and three cheers for the gir
who made the fruit salad, it was time.’
sing Auld Lang Syne. Vv

Thus was brought to a closeg ("of
the most enjoyable incidents4.2/ our
class history; and it is our ear.™st hope
that in the near future a post graduate
ne of a similar nature may be

eld.

The girls of Class ’22 take this op
portuniy to acknowledge their indebtedness to Dr. Bronson for mitting
the use of one of the Physic preter t
ies for our little function. M. M.

Dr. Thomas 6:— After treating most
ients of this kind we never see or

f ‘ )
a : , - "
TF @ Wee} i" VE : as 7
. é = a
. & . ; :

 
 

  

\
. ‘)
After three cheers and a tiger’...

vUs- J

NOTES OF THE LAW SCHOOL

William C. Dunlop, a member of the
third year class in law, was surprised
at a meeting of the Law School in the
moot court room of the Forrest Building last week, when he was presented,
for himself and Mrs. Dunlop, with a fine
silver tea set and mahogany tray. During the recent Christmas holidays Mr.
Dunlop wedded Miss Tilly Reid Smith,
formerly of Newfoundland, and the fact
was not known to his class-mates until
several days after the new term began.
The presentation was formally made by —
Lieut.-Col. J. K. Mackay, also of the
same class, president of the Law Society, who made a brief but felicitous
speech, Mr. Dunlop replying in a happy
vein and thanking the members of the
society on behalf of himself and Mrs.
Dunlop. A committee consisting of Russell McInnes, G. C. Nowlan and G. C.
Macleod had been appointed at a former
meeting to arrange for the presentation
and they reported that the members had
responded generously when a subscription list was started.

At this meeting R. M. Fielding of the
third year, George Ross of the third
year and J. C. Haslam of the first year
were appointed a committee to bring in
a report at the next meeting on the proposal to raise the Students’ Council fee
from $5 to $10, for which the D. A. A. C.
had already voted unanimously. It was
announced that the Students’ Council
planned a plebiscite on this question
during the election for members for
next year’s council early in March, and
Russell MeInnes suggested that candidates for the council run on platforms
standing for no raise, a raise to $10 or
a smaller raise. ‘

Owing to the fact that first year students had to go to a lecture during part
of this meeting the matter of nominajons for the Council was postponed, as

ye\ first year is more concerned than

others.

Aw or the same reason the decision in
regard to a class pin, proposed at a
meeting some time ago, when the executive committee was asked to report on
it, was also left over until the next
meeting.

Members of the third year class held
an informal meeting later, and J. P.
Connolly and W. C. Dunlop were named
as a committee to arrange for a class
photograph, being given power to make
final arrangements, which will be bulletined at the Forrest Building.

IN LIGHTER VEIN.

When Brutus asked Caesar how
many doughnuts he ate for breakfast,
what did he answer? ‘Ht tu Brute.’”? —
4
WANTED—MORE MONEY!
(Continued from Page 1)
four hours, at the end of which the
funds had been allotted in some sort of
a fashion, more or less of a hit and miss
variety. Realizing the inadequacy of
this so-called system, the council at their
last meeting appointed a special committee to go into the whole financial
question and attempt to devise a scheme
which would give more co-ordination,
to the various activities coming under

the control of the council.

Many reasons for the necessity of
this advance are apparent to anyone
who has taken the trouble to go into the
question. A few only will be appeneded

lst. With an income this year of
$3500, Student Societies in their bud_gets asked for $6500. Consequently
every budget had to be practically cut
in half. |
2nd. The Student’s Council were
unable to expend one cent to assist in
equipping or staffing the new gym. Part
of this expense at least would seem to
be a legitimate charge on the students,
as it is in practically every other university. To accomplish the best results, a gym instructor and a coach will
be necessary, unless some superman
can be found who can combine the two
positions. With the money at their
disposal from the present fee, the council would be unable to touch this matter.
3rd. The basketball trip, which the
team so well have earned, will be unable to be held due to lack of funds. It
is doubtful if the play off for the Intercollegiate hockey championship can be
held unless Mount A. coms to Halifax.
4th. With reference to the girls,
the council has been able to grant them
only half of their demands, due to the
lack of funds. The principle, however,
that the girls are entitled to all they pay
in to he council has been adhered to.
With the establishment of the Girls’
Intercollegiate Basketball and Debating Leagues, the necessity for more
money will arise, and this can only be
met by the proposed increase. a
Finally it must be remembered tt
this year a number of charges hav.
not arisen which will be very likely to
crop up in the future. The Glee Club
has expended practically nothing, the
Sodales Debate is taking place in Halifax which in a large measure curtailed
their budget, the Skating Club did not
expend as much as last year, and several other agencies have contributed to
make he present even less than a normal year. The whole kernel of the
matter is that the student activities coordinated under the Council of 1912
have outgrown the ideas of their founders and in order to carry on the increase to ten dollars is a vital necessi| ty. Thos who have had to do with the
business of the Council well

:

 

ieee ie ae oat ee ae BS et

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

KLEMENTARY LATIN ILLUSTRATED

    

oid
Fs
a ee A

i |

=

»
» ©

“#26

   

  

—_*

fous

‘CAASAR SPENT THE NIGHT IN FORCED MARCHES’

EXCHANGES

King’s College Record. ‘‘In the New
Year’s Dawn’’ is the title of a well written poem to be found in the January,
Feb., Number. The article on ‘‘Thin
coal seams in the Maritime Provinces’’
is instructive. We note your intention
of carrying on a Sudents’ Campaign this
summer and wish you every success so
that King’s may continue to fulfil her
services to this Province.

Macdonald College Magazine. We
note with interest your story Writing

Competition. If the succeeding stories:

«@ pproach in merit those contained in

nroyt, January issue your competition
*, pave succeeded in drawing out lit
erat. alent in a marked degree. ‘‘The
Devil’Driver of Red Gulch’’ is very
good. ‘is number contains numerous

cuts which add to the appearance of the
magazine. The sketches are good although we do not approve of one or two
of the titles. |

Le Quartier Latin. This is the official organ of the students of the Uni
 

understand this, and it is to be hoped
gh t e stu
 

versity of Montreal and is written in
French. ‘‘La Petit Moustache’’ and
‘‘Rimettes’’ are humorous. ‘‘Les Camouflages des ‘emmes”’ will no doubt find
favour with the male students and perhaps with the Co-eds.

The Gateway.
ogynist’’ is the title of a humorous
short story to be found in the issue of
Feb. 14th. We note with interest the
appearance of your commerce ‘‘notes’’.

r commerce society is not much older.

The Sheaf. The February 16th issue of our Saskatchewan contempoary
contains an interesting article entitled
‘‘Jock Tamson’s Bairns’’. The report
of an address on the National Status
of Canada delivered to ‘the students
by the Editor of the Manitoba Free
Press is worth reading.

The Mamtoban. We like the idea
of the series of articles under the heading ‘‘The Tide of Affairs.”’ ‘The
Toreador’’ is cleverly humorous. Your
Societies are well reported and the
make-up of your paper is good.

The Hobart Herald. ‘‘Procrastin

ation”, the editorial in the Feb. 9th is
sue of this paper is worth reading. We

Continued on Page 8)

‘Musings of a Mis- .

from the *

U. 8. 0. ELECTION.

Early this month, the elections will
be held for the new students council and
the writer wishes to make a plea for
each class and society to carefully consider their nomination and see that the
best students are in the next council
for the term 1922-23.

A nomination to the students’ council should not be given or taken lightly.
Many students are of the opinion that
the present U.S. C. institution is behind
the times and that it should be remodelled. Troubles over athletics, conflicting constitutions and the dance question came up over and over again this
year. The new council will certainly be
faced with a revision of the constitution
in athletics. The powers of. the council
will have to be made more definite, if it
is to represent the students at all.

Next year the financial question will
have to be changed some way. A $5
fee will not support the various societies, ‘‘Gazette’’ and athletics. Our teams
are sadly handicapped thru lack of
coaches and proper training. The council this year is feeling the shortage of
funds. Next year wages are going down
and the probability is that money will be
as scarce as this year. Even if the fee
is raised it will take the best business
heads of the student body to make it
go all the way.

During the last few weeks, I have
heard it said that the students’ council
were doing no good and had no powers.
Well, without it,student affairs would
soon be only chaos. I know the
powers are limited and other peopeople have the final say. The present constitution was made when
the council started and has only been
perfunctorily amended. All the rules
and regulations affecting the student
body in the Senate ‘‘minute book’’ should
be in the constitution so each new council could see where they are working.
They are not there today and that is
what makes the trouble.

A committee of students and representatives of the Faculty should settle

once and for all the athletic question—
who is eligible and what restrictions are
to be made on the man with failures.
The newspapers are no place to do
it in, and, if where each side stood was
down in bleak and white, there would be
n oneed of carrying our troubles to the

daily papers.

There should be a: Freshman Dean
in ‘Arts’? and “(Science’’ and I take
this opportunity of suggesting it to the

Faculty ll as the new council. Far |
py tert professor of biology, ‘‘a ve

too many freshmen make their first

te aa tek tothe oh kane”
a | os

from ti ‘Committee on Studies and

  
   

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ed. The only point I want to make is
that next year—or sooner—the present
U. S. C. constitution should be completely revised—the athletic question
has to be settled definitely—the financial question is really a serious matter—
and that next session we need the best
of our student body on the council. It
is supposed to be a representative body.
See that you make it so and when once
you elect your representative don’t, then
froget all about it. Give him, or her,
your suggestions and back them up with
all the power of your class and society.

Associate Editor.

“STUDENT” REPLIES TO
“DULZIANA”

The Editor Dalhousie Gazette:

Dear Sir,— Would you be good
enough to give me the necessary space
to answer the article on ‘‘Kissing’’,
which appeared in The Gazette of Feb.
8th. Apart from the absolute absurdity
of the article itself, I would like to comment on the three paragraphs at the
first written by ‘‘Dulziana’’,

He or she, as the case may be, starts
in by saying, ‘‘a very excellent article’’,
which remark places your contributor
on the exceedingly low level of the
author of the article. The person goes
on to say that kissing has not attracted
scientists. Such is not the case. A
great many articles have been written
on this subject, one of which appeared
recently in ‘‘The Sunday Leader’’.

The Jananese, the Moslems, the
Chinese, are averse to kissing, the article says. I ask you, does this condemn
kissing? No! One thousand times no!
Social customs are very different in
those countries than on this continent,
and decent people in this country would
not tolerate for one moment the forms
of love practiced there; here they are
considered as vices.

It is not a sin to drink, it is not a sin
to play cards; the sin comes in in the
overdoing of these things, namely,
drunkenness and gambling. Like drink
and cards, kissing may be put to a
wrong use by ill bred, rough, coarse
people, but that does not in any way
condemn it. .

A kiss is one of the most sacred customs we have, and any one who would
write such an article would seem to have
lost their finer senses, and I would not
uphold such an article under any circum
stances whatsoever.
STUDENT.

he ‘ ow sil .
“T propose to show you,’’ said a
rare spceirage ag Ble frog which I have
in this parce
Undoing the parcel, he disclosed
sandwiches, a hard boiled egg, and

| a
oned sans fruit. ‘‘But-but-surel diem my

lunch!’? he exclamed.—Z

- — —

FOOLISH LETTERS TO

SENSIBLE PEOPLE.
TO THE CAPTAIN.
**# &
OF THE DAL GIRLS.
*e*# & *€
BASKET BALL TEAM.

* &© & *

DEAR
* *& *& *
I WATCHED with
* *&©§ & &
GREAT interest the
* &£ & &
OTHER night when
* = & *
YOU defeated the
* £ & *€
H. L. C. team but
* & & *&
SOMETHING seemed to _
* &*+ & *€
BE LACKING from the
* & & *&
GAME and now that I
* & & &
KNOW what it was
* &* & *
I WISH it had
* &£ & &
BEEN there before
* &* & *
IL REFER to
*

** & *
THE absence of
* & & &

VOCAL gymnastics

* * & *
ON THE part of

* * & *
THE players for the

* * & *
ABSENCE made the

* * & &
GAME about as fast

* * & &
AS A funeral

* * & &
NOW I know the

* * & &
SPECTATORS would like

**“ * * *
TO HEAR the odd

* ° * *
AMAZONIAN yell and

* * & &
I AM sure the players

**“* & &
WOULD enjoy the

** & &
ADDED excitement

“ese
AS well as
YOURS TRULY,
VOX.

Dr. K. McK. “This we call ‘‘blue

baby.’’
ffs dior opens and in walks a lady —
dressed in blue. ce".
 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

(Continued from Last Week)

When we left the house, Keith went
around to take another look at the body,
but was informed by Rowan, that it had
been removed to the morgue.

‘‘In that case we had better go
home,’’ he said to me. ‘‘If necessary,
I can run down to the morgue in the
morning. ’’ ;

On our way home, I attempted to
quizz Keith, but he was absorbed inhis
thoughts, and I could draw nothing
from him. I left him at his doorstep,
arrived home shortly after, and was
soon in bed. I think I must have stayed awake half the night pondering over
the events of that evening.

When I came down to breakfast in
the morning, I found a message from
Keith. He wished me to meet him at
his rooms at half-past ose, if I desired
to learn anything further concerning
the Captain’s death. Needless to say
I was there on time.

Keith was waiting for me, ‘and without a word of explanation we set out
for the Governor’s Residence. As we
neared the gate we met Rowan coming
from ‘the opposite direction. He turned in with us, and I glanced at his face.
He was no wiser than I.

‘*Good afternoon, gentlemen,’’ he
greeted us. ‘‘Have you solved the
mystery, Mr. Keith?’’

A flicker of a smile ran over Keith’s
face, but he said nothing until we were
inside.

Our arrival having been announced,
the Governor appeared almost imme
diately. He looked  expectantly at
Keith.
‘What is the news today, . Mr.

Keith? Have you discovered the mur_derer?’’

‘‘No,’’, answered Keith, ‘‘I am
afraid we shall never discover the murderer for I do not believe Capt. Martineau was murdered.’’ |

‘*But, my dear sir,’’ interjected the
Chief, ‘‘He did not die by his own
hand, surely ?’’ |

Ignoring the officer, Keith turned
again to the waiting Governor and began to question him.

“‘In your opinion Sir, would you
consider Capt. Martineau an honorable
man, a man who, for instance, would
fulfill his obligations?’’ |

‘‘Why most assuredly, Mr. Keith.
Capt. Martineau’s word was as good as
his bond. I was never acquainted with
a more honorable man.’’

‘‘That is just as I thought,’’ replied
Keith. ‘‘Now, Sir, I want you to think
carefully. Do you remember just what

Martineau said last night, when you offered to tell him the name of his latest
ship?’

‘Why he assured me it was an
impossibility. ’’

‘‘Ts that all?’’ asked Keith.

The Governor thought a moment,
and then with a nervous laugh:

‘“T think——he even vowed he would
eat his hat, if I could tell him.”’’

Nodding his head, Keith went on:

‘‘T had an autopsy performed on the
body this morning. The gullet was
found literally clogged with felt,, which
was the cause of death. Gentlemen,
‘strange as it-may seem, Capt. Martineau’s death was caused by fulfilling
his rash vow. He died through eating
his ‘hat.’? CREE.

 

 

The Reason Why?

Building experts tell us that pitch
pine is one of the most inflamable kinds
of lumber.—that with tar-paper it
forms an ideal combination for the Demon Fire Fiend. Fire insurance companies assure us that a cigarette butt
carelessly thrown away has been responsible for more conflagrations than
any other agency. Experience teaches
that the natural action of a man caught
in the act, is to toss the butt into the
nearest hole or corner. These then in
brief are the reasons for the rule of the
new Gymnasium ‘that no smoking shall
take place on the main floor at any time.

The Dreams of the makers of Dalhousie are gradually coming true. Ina
time of economic distress ‘‘the college
by the sea’’ is advancing, and not the
least sign of her advance is the new
gymnasium at Studley. Although many
calls were made for money, the Board
of Governors decided that a gymnasium and general student building was
one of the pressing necessities of the
growing university. It was impossible under the creumstances to construct
the permanent gym as outlined in ‘‘The
Vision of a new Dalhousie.’’ It was accordingly decided to construct the
foundation of the future Arts building
and on it place a temporary structure
which would serve the purpose, until
more funds were forthcoming and the
permanent gym could be constructed.
Forty thousand dollars ($40,000) were
allocated for the purpose, although the
buildng cost nearer forty-five thousand
($45,000. ) |

With fitting implication the new
building was opened on the occasion of
the Delta Gamma dance.

_ Now that the students have a build
they should wish to retain it.

After a consultation between members of the Board of Governors, Senate
and Students Council, certain rules in
regard to the building were drawn up.
One of them was that there should be
no smoking. Owing to the highly inflamable nature of the building it had
been intended that his rule should apply to every part of the building. But
the committee, realizing that this might
seem too harsh, decided that smoking
with reasonable precautions could be
allowed in the basement.

It is then for this purely utilitarian
reason of preserving the building, not
upon any moral religious or ethical
grounds that the rule was decided upon.
The present Students Council feel that

it is their duty to see that this rule 
shall be strictly adhered to. At their
last meeting a motion was passed, making the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for
the first offence the maximum penalty
for any student caught breaking this
rule. The necessity of it must be apparent to every one who has the well
being of the University at heart. It is
to be hoped that it will be observed in
the same spirit of helpfulness, in which
it was enacted. (This article has been
written at the rerepuest of U.S. C.)

AND NOW—A THEATRE NIGHT.

Now that the College Team are City
League Champions what about a real
old-fashioned Theatre Night? It has
been a long time since Dalhousie had a
Theatre Night; that is the college as a
whole. Let’s have one now. And let
us do it quickly. The examinations are
not far off ‘but we can afford at least
one night for a celebration.

Think it over but act on the suggestion before it is too late.

What about this Saturday mght?

THIS WEEK AT THE MAJBSTIC.

Students will have their last opportunity this
evening to see Victor Hugo’s masterpiece, “Les
Miserables” which has been showing for the first
half of this week at the Majestic Theatre.

Commencing tomorrow a musical comedy,
“Mademoiselle from Ammentiers” will be presented; this at least should attract all the exarmy men now taking courses at Dalhousie.

 

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL,

Arts defeated Dentistry, Meds. lost to Engineers, while Pharmacy defaulted to Law in

‘tthe second round of the Interfaculty Basketball |

series last Tuesday, February 2ist. The games
aroused little interest among the student body
and some of the teams had a hard time inducing
a quota to appear. Arts look good for the trophy
at present, with 2 wins to their credit.

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

IAS

    

Roe MacKenna lost a tooth, but won the championship of the Halifax City Hockey league on
Friday when the Tigers supported by nearly one
hundred per cent of Dalhousians past and present, beat their old rivals the Wanderers, by a
score of 1 to 0, Bedlam reigned supreme from
the face-off and when McKennas shot bulged the
twine behind McKay, three minutes before the
final whistle the Dalhousie mob went wild, while
the supporters of the Red and Black sunk into
even greater silence than had characterized them
thruout the whole evening. It was a grand and
glorious victory, particularly as most of the
“sharks” had it all figured out that Wanderers
would win and that the Crescents would then
make the league a four cornered tie by beating
the Wanderers on Tuesday. But the Duke and
his men did not figure it that way, and were taking no chances with play-off’s, remembering no
doubt, the water polo that marked the last few
games last year. ,

The first period was about even with both
goal keepers making many wonderful stops—
in the second and third spasm the Tigers had the
edge and bombarded McKay with the kind he
likes best—up around the chest. It looked like
overtime till Roe from Bathurst grabbed the
puck from near the Dal net, outskated the Wanderer’s forwards and stick handled thru the defence. Roe then states that he saw one small
spot where McKay was’nt and he accordingly
poked it in there. That won the game. The
last three minutes provided hectic excitement for
the Dal supporters, and the Wanderers were also
plainly nervous, as when Lilly shot the puck from
near his own ‘net, in the general direction of McKay, the big Wanderer net custodian collapsed
from excitemnet. No one heard the bell, but
every one knew the championship was ours when
they saw Tommy Horsler on the ice dancing the
Sackville tango. It was a wildly hilarious crowd
that filed out of the Arena. Immediately a
parade was formed, headed by Max MacOdrum,

Rod Richardson and Wilf Marshall, which pro
claimed to the world at large and the Orpheus
in particular that Dalhousie had won the championship. At this latter place, Manager Acker,

broke up the parade when he invited the boys to
take seats and put on a special comedy for their
benefit.

The boys couldn’t resist ‘the temptation and
stayed. After the show they kept on to the Tarry

 
 
  
 

td ;
== ae ™ wt ‘ j
et eit| As : 2 sa = 5. 25 :
ae ou ea Tae ee os :
EB MA Oh es oe

ee Bye vy B ig \

  

ae ar iid tty %

  

PAGE —

The City
Hockey League

a.

 

— -—_ooooOoOoOO.- ene — ee eee

when he cracked him over the nose. The full
line wp in the championship game was as follows:
Goal, MecIsaac, (Capt.); defence, Lilly, Dunn;
forwards, Bates, McKenna, Horsler, Haslam.
Spares, Beaton, Hickey, Smith.

DAL, VS. H. L. C.

The first girls’ basket ball game this season
to be held in the new gymnasium was played on
Wednesday evening at 7.30 o’clock, between Dal
girls and Ladies’ College girls, under Miss Ward
as referee. It resulted in a victory for the Dal
girls. The line up was as follows:

Dalhousie—Centre, Marian Clark; side centre,
Lillian Rundle; forwards, May Linton, Madeline
Mader; guards, Eva Mader, Edwina Archibald;
subs., Anna Grant, Carol Hawkins.

H. L. C.—Centre, Anne Clarke; side centre,
Audrey Irwin; forwards, Marion Campbell, Grace
Blackwood; guards, Bleanor Barnstead, Mangaret
Richardson; subs. Helen Hewitt, Audrey Ralston.

Altho the game as a whole was rather slow,

yet the H. L. C. girls were faster than the Dal

girls, who put forth better combination. Grace
Blackwood scored well for the college, while
Madeline Mader and Marion Clark were Dal’s
stars. The score was 8-11. |

One of Dal’s first team girls Esther Creighton
was greatly missed, due to the fact that a street
car hit her on the nose. She is wished a speedy
recovery and it is hoped she will be able soon, to
resume her

  

| ee

spectators one would have thought that they
were afraid of the sound of their own voices. In
the face of disheartening circumstances, what is
more discouraging than to feel your audience
lacking faith. This seemed to be the case at the
game and it has been remarked by a student
from one of the smaller colleges that he is thoroly
disgusted with the spirit shown at games of this
kind. We should like to think that the spectators came, not only for their own amusement, but
also to help the teams by cheering to keep up
their spirits. Now that the new gymnasium is
ready for use it is up to all the students to make
it a success and to show forth the spirit that
really is at Dalhousie, but lies hidden. At one
time Glee Club was a great help along this line
but for some reason unknown it has dropped out
of existence. ? R,

ACADIA BASKETEERS TRIM DAL,

The Acadia basketbal] quintette sprung rather
a surprise on most of the Dal. followers last Wednesday at the New Gym when they defeated the
Dal. city league team 35 to 27. The Acadians appeared with a fast team slightly heavier than the
Tigers and deserved their victory, Dalhousie only
showing first class form in spots. They started
off well, Mader getting three in a row, but from
then on the boys from the Land of Evangeline
had the jump on ‘them and rolled up a big lead.

In the second spasm the Tigers again hit a
winning pocket and rolled up 5 baskets in a row.
It was too late, however, and the game ended
with the Acadians going strong. They seemed
in better condition than the wearers of the Gold
and ‘Black. If the students council can raise the
necessary money, Manager Jimmy Graham’s
squad will probably play a return game at Wolfville in the near future.

DAL GIRLS WIN FROM KINGS.

The Dal girls promise to emulate the example of our City Hockey team, winning their
second basketball game in tthe Intercollegiate
league from King’s College at the Studley Gym
on Saturday by a large score. Quite a few of the
faculty and students were on hand to see the
players in action and were rewarded by hearing
for the first time in history the Dal yell given by

_ the female element without’ male support. Miss

G. Mills of the Law faculty led the girls and
proved a worthy substitute for Charlie Baxter.
Another novel feature from the male viewpoint
was the clapping of hands before and after

 

  
     
 

 

ore and
: Mahoney,

- Fae eee
Nk stig Me , Hii i , X
oe

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

MOCK PARLIAMENT

Who was who or what was what or
which was which was difficult to discern
at the second sitting of the Law School’s
mock parliament on Monday night of
last week. The Conservatives voted
with the Progressives to defeat a bill to
amend the Industrial Disputes Act, introduced by the Minister of Labor, Hon.
W. A. Livingstone, and for which the
Liberal members voted solidly, but
turned around and opposed the Progressives when their leader, L. D. Currie, moved a want of confidence resolution, seconded by last year ’s leader,
Arthur Lilly.

Mr. Currie at the opening of the
sitting had a petition asking the Government to intervene in the cases of
Cape. Breton miners who had‘ pleaded
guilty to taking articles from the Dominion Coal Company’s stores, and the
Progressive leader made an eloquent
appeal for them. The petition was supported by all of his party, but opposed
by both Liberal and Conservatives,
whose chief argument was that nothing
should be done until the courts had adjudicated on the cases, and it was re-ferred to the laws and privileges committee, consisting of Hon. W. C. Dunlop, Minister of Justice, as chairman,
and Russell McInnes, G. C. Nowlan,
John D. Macintyre and R. M. Palmer,
all of whom Premier R. M. Fielding,
who moved its going to the committee,
characterized as great constitutional
lawyers.

Mr. Livingston made a masterly address in favor of his amendment to the
Industrial Disputes Act and claimed
that it would, by making it necessary
for either side to give 60 days notice of
a proposed change in working conditions, give the remedy which the employees sought. He was ably supported by Hon. D. F. McGeer, Minister of
Public Works.

J. D. Flavin and P. L. Parlee, two of
the younger Conservative members,
spoke against the bill for the official opave evidence that John

servative leader, will

have at least two ebaters and
orators to help him in the pinches. Mr.

similar assurance when Alackinnon and Horace EH. Read
attacked the bill from the Progressive
viewpoint, notwithstanding that they
were heckled unmercifully by Liberal

—— and members

P. Connolly member a Killarny,
piece adn

and Liberale in the debate on the Curfor the miners.
| to have taken

 

 

want of confidence motion, declared that
all the advanced legislation ever passed
in Canada had been placed on the statute
books by the Conservative party, the
party of Sir John A. Maedonald. He
was diametrically opposed to the’ Liberals in principle, but did not believe the
country wanted another general election
so soon after the hallucination of December 6th, last.

Many questions were answered by
cabinet ministers, the Minister of Public Works (Mr. McGeer) stating that a
disgraceful condition of affairs existed
under the late administration in his department. R. D. Harvey, member for
Victoria City, asked a question regarding a certain waitress in the Vancouver
Hotel who was said to have been offered
a position in the Works Department.

‘Mr. MeGeer said he had’ asked the mem
ber not to press his question, but on the
latiter’s insisting he would have to say
that on the member’s own request a job
was promised—by the former government—but the promise would not be
fulfilled.

The Minister of Immigration .and
Colonization (Mr. MclIsaac) moved the
first reading of a bill respecting immigration, which is designed to exclude
Orientals and other undesirables and
encourage . good agricultural settlers,
and -the Minister of Railways and
Canals (Mr. Macleod) introduced a bill
respecting railways, to consolidate all
national railways and allied businesses
and respecting rates and other railway
affairs. These and other bills were to
come up on Monday of this week.

EXCHANGES.
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE FOUR)

welcome this Exchange from Hobart
College, Geneva, N. Y.

The Gazette acknowledges with
thanks the following publications:—

MeGill Daily

Varsity

Trinity Review

Ubyssey
East and West
Yale Divinity News —
The Student
Presbyterian Witness
Truro Daily News.
D. 0. ©.

Forbes :—Charlie! You would certainly be a fine ee ae ee

“eae.
r:—How is that?

 

‘Forbes :—When we’d come -: the a

 

brain, we would have no .
all!!

 

 

 

 

  

Dalhousie Headquarters
Sporting Goods

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at
our store at 40 Sackville Street.
We can supply you with every
thing for Sport Life. Also Pocket
Knives, Razors, Shaving Supplies.

Morton & Thomson

 

 
 

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
128 YOUNG STREET

ee i eeaEEnEEERianaannieemmtonel
(aa ee

HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

+ MENRY &. COLWELL. cicscscccscoccvccssosve President

GARNET J. COLWELL, ......cssseceses Vice-President
ES eA re ee Director
CYRIL, HB. COLWELL, ciscccscccsccs Secretary-Treasurer

Neilsen & Mills

26 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
SPECIAL—Ev.

LADIES’ TAILORING DEPT.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed.

— OUR LEADERS
ashe < edcasedtenel sede ech ncannr et!

SHERMER TEER Pee eee eee ee seeeee

 

‘SS ita ei a as
ae ee ee
eate? =

  
  
    
