 

 

Vol, LIV.

The Dalhousie Gazette

Founded 1869
Issued Weekly - - - ~- One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - - - = + J, GORDON FOGO

Associate Editors
Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Am
Miss Juanita O’Connor OD. C uhoun
M. M. McOdrum

R. R. Dalgleish
P. M. Cassidy
H. E. Read, B. A.

McKean

D. R. Webster, B.A.
Staff Artists

Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie

BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
129 Spring Garden Road

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable to the Business Manager.

Ee

    

EDITORIAL

x

 

The death of the Honorable Mr.
Justice Drysdale, until recently a member of the Supreme Court Bench of
Nova Scotia, marks the passing of one
who was for some years very closely
associated with the life and work of this
university. Commencing about the year
1910, he was for several years a valued
member of the Law Faculty, and, there,
as in other walks of life, at the Bar, in
public affairs, on the Bench, he proved
himself an able man. An incisive intellect, well balanced and of quick perception, coupled with great reasoning

wers, distinguished his career from
Coalagtie to end. His life is an out
example of the success to be
iby a man in his native prevines,
where the late Mr. Justice rysdale

  
  
 
 

   

ion will be found

  
  

ti i - and responsi
ty. We regret his passing and ex88 our sorrow at his sudden demise.
Ran fe ‘ J 2 . “
mplete official registration figures

ai : “a
his = - SB fata = ihe] FeyeAS., »
an ‘i Sees | i a
7 2 =
f : h
vie he ME gl Pig OO
I ’
'
=

<——

5 if . | ‘ 3 = r ‘
a ? ry = 4 ie “ a a
7 4 fs

:>

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 1, 1922

Thousands of graduates of years gone
by who are occupying prominent positions in the intellectual world about us,
will hear with pleasure the glad news
that their Alma Mater continues to

prosper. While numerous other colleges and universities report a decided
decrease in attendance, due in part, perhaps, to the general depression that has
prevailed throughout the country, it is
certainly gratifying to know that there
are almost forty, thirty-seven to be
exact, more students registered this
year than in 1921. A notable fact, too,
is that no less than one hundred and
sixty-six young ladies are in our midst,
Facing this whole student body is the
task of maintaining the standards erected by our predecessors who have proven
their worth and brought honor to Dalhousie. In our hands rests the future
of Dalhousie; accept the responsibility
and discharge the duty in a manner that
will reflect. credit.on both students and
university.

 

A momentous conference of representatives of the universities of the
Maritime Provinces met in the city last
week. ‘This conference considered the
proposed federation of universities, the
plan to consolidate the entire forces of
higher educational effort in Hastern
Canada, and placed the stamp of approval on the suggestion of the Carnegie
report that the establishment of a central seat of learning at Halifax would
solve many of the difficulties now being
faced by the separate units. It would
also promote the advancement of the
educational system in the Maritime
Provinces and Newfoundland to a stage
level with that of the greatest institutions on the American continent. The
principle of union has been accepted, and
while ie a for -the details a be
worked out, the prospects for attaining
the objective seem exceedingly bright.

- Another point eet by the body
was that which dealt with the establishment of, in addition to the denominacolleges, a non-sectarian college.
roposal was very favorably resived by the representatives. =

sie zat

 

      
 
 

  
 

== § as = . E. : ‘ ;

=4 | aT E d , | - ee hig = ; %
; A Or 3 : : i LL

| - 
¥ foe

Uy 7 4 >=
oe te | 1 4 p= >= iB
. A eS = =
eS . :
ia eg =

 

ew- day morning, Oct. 25. |

 
 

No, 16

AERO PHOTOGRAPHS
OF BATTLE AREAS

Valuable Collection Presented to
Library by Captain Roper.

Notable among recent additions to
the MacDonald Memorial Library Collection is a selection of aeroplane photographs covering operations of the Canadian corps in France, and sectors held,
from 1915 to 1918, This is a gift from
Captain J. 8. Roper, M. C., President of
the Dalhousie Alumni Association and of
the University Olub.

Included among the pictures are several of the Ypres Salient in 1916, and
the battle of the Somme, showing Canadian infantry entering the German front
line trenches at Courcelette, and views
of Mouquet Farm. Then comes the
Lens area, with Vimy Ridge positions,
both our own and the enemy’s from
February until May, 1917; Passchendale in October and November; and
finally, the campaign of 1918, up to and
including the Arras-Cambrai battle.

Particularly interesting and clear is
the oblique panorama of the Canal du
Nord and Bourlon Wood, taken at the
precise moment when the Huns blew up
a bridge in an attempt to hinder the
advance of the attacking Canadians.

Highly instructive as. illustrations
of the effect of shell fire are the views
of such cities and towns as Atheville,
Fresnoy, and Cite du Moulin, taken before and aftér bombardment.

The photographs were taken by
eight different Squadrons of the Royal
Air Force, and compiled by Lieut. OC. C.
Brooks, M. ©., of the General Staff,
Canadian Oonps, Intelligence Branch.
They constitute an invaluable memorial
of the work of Canada’s gallant soldiers in the Great War, as well as being
intensely interesting and of oe
cational value. “Q As

PERSON AL.
Arthur Reginald Lilly, LL. B. (’22),
was admitted to the Bar of Nova Scotia
on motion of Stuart Jenks, K. 'C., before

Honorable Mr. Justice Ohisholm, in
Supreme Court Chambers on Wednes
 

  
 

   

   

, ee
= .
Mr. od oh
Zs . SF
: Bee

   

     

“Art,” has ‘decided to locate in
fax, and will enter the office of
ents An excellent ath

  
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Pe eee THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 3

iat Visited Gas Wo Pine Hill Post the table, while bread, cake and ice University Hall

cream dropped gently before the aston
Arts-Law Debate

 

 

    
    
    

 

 

 

     
     
       
       
 

 

EGISTRATION 1922-23. ' ‘‘Brethren, if a man be overtaken in ished brethren. After this sumptuous On several evenings lately. the bo
Discussion of Important Economi Reso- . aa The Saaneens pockets, Kaeiactes a fault, ye which are spiritual restore repast the groom was addressed by the have gathered in the sitting ae fers
~ lution Neat Friday Evening. Arts and Science ..........--. 339 ‘Through Tram Company . such an one im the spirit of meekness three most insidious of their number. sing-song. Copies of ‘Dal. Songs
ee :; h Medicine ......00.00csseeeees 189 On Saturday, October 21st, the considering thyself lest thow also be First Tass. Langwith out of his own ex- 1921,” being produced, all joined heartily
Sodales is undertaking a muc ‘hon Dentistry ....... cc cece eenens 69 Engineers paid a very interesting visit tempted.’’ perience warned him of the snares and in the singing. There are some good
extensive programme im —_— as BOE sci dies obied coe dead 631 to the Tram Company’s Gas Works. These words were the centre and_ Pit-falls that would henceforth beset his songs in this book, and. it is too ‘bad more
in former 7 Care. It h a fa it de- Engineering .........+.++.+++: 44} On arrival at 10 am. and for the next text of the message delivered to the path. Murray Britton told of the three of them are not known.
schedule for a series of inter- o , RMR |. cc i sedi vnaacs 251 two and a half hours Mr. Dawson, Chief monks on Monday evening by Pope Tass eat epochs in man’s life; he is born, The Law Song is very catchy indeed
pales Saco Ors . Sonenn vill d | Pharmacy ..........+--++ees 20| Analyst, looked afte rthe visitors m a Langwith. Long and dreary was the /¢ is married and he dies or hopes to and the Engineers’ Song sung to the
oratorical combat aon lel al by Gist wie __.| very interesting manner. night spent by this holy man inhis rude “ie. Dagleish referred the victim for tyne of ‘Mademoiselle from ArmenLaw oh November - ivad th t he coal Total ap 749 He first took them to the ‘Lab., cell, All through the dark hours could ll advice to Jiggs, the idol and envy of  tieres,”’ has a good swing too. Nearly
a coo et) oe 1a b : ed and ST re ee where he explained and illustrated ‘be heard his measured footsteps as he all henpecked husbands. everyone knows the rollicking airs of
mines of Canad - amt nt.” The ! briefly the method used to produce the hunted up lists and down indicts, wear- Kiverybody then retired to the Great the Med. Song and the Dutch Company
operated. by the ea ah ~ Bissett PERSONAL. : gas, then visited every other part of the ing holes in the carpet.. Great drops of Room, where every known form of ‘There is a Stein Song in the book which
budding Ciceros of Art, Mr. . dir Sydney M. Zinck, B. A., LL.B., 22, plant, water stood out on his brow, which were ®Musement was _ indulged in. D. BA. ts very popular with college glee alsin
and Mr. Don. McInnes, are wphol’ing recently accepted a position on the Beginning at the water’s edge, where collected and hermetically sealed by McKinnon, Kelly McLean, Morris Kirn Qne of the peppiest college songs ever
the nagative against te — MA _ teaching staff of Calgary High School the coal is received from barges, he Syd. Gilchrist. Nowhere could be found ® 2d Harry Langwith showed their written is also included That is the old
sented by Mr. Claude Richardson, ™.» for this term. Mr. Zinck will be remem- j,.ced its course along belts, up ele- a solution—never had any such thing Prowess in step dancing. The latter Yale song, ‘‘Boola’’ ‘Now is a reat
one ey : yo f the most bered as the editor-in-chief of the vators and down chutes to the crushers. happened in Pine Hill—there was no tW®9, however, were ordered removed. chance to learn some of these cea and
This debate 1s on Pm "Th — Gazette several years ago. From here to the retorts was but a step, precedent; ‘In desperation he called in Duncan McMillan’s sword dance and to add toa repertoire already resplenda td l fa ita- John A. Dunlop, B . A., '22, Rhodes and after examining these, and glimps- Larry McKenzie, Rex Imperator, and J. D. N.’s song were h appreciated. ont with such arias as ‘‘Mr. Gallagher”
only recently been a great aea ; seal scholar, is enrolled in Law at Exeter ing the great bed of white-hot coke be- Admiral Bill Jones. Nothing could be So with such revelry the night ote 7
op tag _— a ~ nh in the College. Before registering “‘Jonn neath, the next study was of the gas. agreed on—the king wished to shoot the quickly wiled away, and ‘at an unmen- There is some talk just now of enterof the railways. In Eng — ae og Spent a pleasant holiday on the “ould im. 4 by-product of the gas, was first culprit and the admiral insisted he be tionable hour, the groom being’ too over- taining the Alumni in the near future
Wer) Government control =o ited j sod’’, sont and then the great coolers, washers drowned. come to address the brethren, the happy At a meeting last week, Messrs Deve tried temporarily, ani or e Dalhousie friends are glad to hear and storage tanks received attention. Robert Cummitig Robb was sum- event wa’ closed, with Auld Lang Syne, Wolfe, Thurrott and Hameron wore aplessening of production. debe ‘ that Lieut.-Colonel J. Keillor MacKay, Mr. Dawson is not only an expert in moned and suggested a form of punish- and three hearty cheers for the groom, pointed an an entertainment committes
These tates, Seay . ae . on D. 8. 0., LL. B., (’22), has been admitted his line. but, what was more to the point, ment he had witnessed in the Sang-Wah and three even more so for the bride. The idea is to do away with all ormality,
ao a its te ‘oll te to the Bar of Nova Seota, he could describe the process interest- monastery at Ham-Strung, Korea. Make Worn out and troubled in mind by and to have a ‘‘kick in the cyder The
— ae eae seh 4 os Serving with the greatest distinction ingly. From the time the party’ entered him live with his wife and thus be a liv- all this unusual and unseemly mirth, the tentative date is November 16th .
trials, and a great ee stu ti . throughout the entire campaign of the the Tah. until they bade him adieu at ing example to all others. This met scribe wandered slowly to his room. Meters. Den and RE th
eee Se pee 1 fe , ty Canadian Corps in France during the 1). door there wasn’t a dull moment. with instant‘ approval—the knotty There, seeking solace and advice, he took  ¢),,atrieal first-nighters of the H ih ;
no inspiration to speak to rows Oh emPT'Y Great War, he was an example of utmost 1, answered questions, advertised coke, problem had been solved. down a book and opened at random. j oon goin aea'eethiade tated ” Th joni
~— Medicine and bravery and self-sacrifice, and an offi- and explained what a ‘wonderful large Howard Hamilton, one of the most ‘There one sentence stood out like burn- looked the current flap ae wa but
rb tee Soren aul d fo No- ° whose powers of leadership were Un- F414 the gas industry presented to the steadfast of the brethren, had slipped ished gold: “Go and do thou likewise.” don’t seem ver entivaslnette The did
Dentistry has been sche ; . Ans ac, excelled. ; 4 budding engineer. and fallen. No one could believe he pre- ae ee piek up the af yeni p however ” that
erephet S000" Oe ceemaah: f m Ities Overcoming the handicap of. ill The Society thanks Mr. Dawson and meditated this atrocious crime, but the Prof. Copp. in Mech. 4.—The appar- Marty” ig coming back. So book your
bate Derween ne ee GM. health due to.severe wounds sustained the other officials for their courtesy in punishment. could not be mitigated. As ent motion of the sun, as seen by aman ,,,,, i the fr aaa we. ces —
will be announced later. am when on active service, he made an ex- permitting them to visit the plant, and the great Pine Hill clock boomed three on the earth, is the same as would be Farn:hant te into bees a ig?
HEAR - gellent record as a student of Law. His 6... 41. attention shown while they were times, to which, of course, fifteen is the- motion of the earth as seen by a wy. cho ig a wonderful sedative Y a
THINGS cin Hill) popularity. among his fellow students 4 added and six subtracted, making ex- man—in an asbestos suit—if he viewed ,, oe etnies evan .
(In and around Pine Hl was evinced when he was elected Presi- Saturday of this week the Society ex- actly midnight, the monks filed slowly this planet from the sun. | 5 l laint
The Organ. dent of the Law Society, A position pects to visit the Hydro-Rlectric plant into the great corridor, and the papal ciactnctit lt etait aia’ t 4 erith he aints have been regisSoup. — which he filled in a very capable manner at St. Margaret’s Bay. bull was sent to convey this unfortunate A go-getter, far from slow, is the dt + ao e met Committee re one
The rising bell??? throughout his final year. ; dithia Af slemmnidniann Unlthae hardy Eskimo. — n—g—le. It appears that
Tea or coffee? Yep! While everybody waited with faces he woke the whole third floor every
‘ctou’s mad rush for meals. be a TIGHT STUFF. | Tone 3 ; morning last week at the early hour of
wihe f phe??? HAMILTON—DAVIS. | ee ee at at the top of | - five. He wishes to offer an dpology to
e sopa ie Sed fri are sur- | rl’s a miser when e stairs appeared a vision of such | : ? | it
Bie xi make ote eee froines 18Gla® rane far || UNIVERSITY HALL 9 hoy a eon sng ov nl
| aan eNO ere ee ee of Mr, and.Mrs. William T. Hamil- Higgs—Huh ? changed from a part to a pompadour MEN’S RESIDENCE Mail bbiey ae eae ails area h sere ye
manne ton, New Glasgow, who mysteriously dis- Wiggs—Yeh, pretty close. an gah ar Aa “tie weiter tite There are still a few. good The phdtograph business is rushing
It’s an ill wind that causes a draft. appeared for a week, has taken unto —Oulifornia Pelican. Cadden oantaat cae astite rooms available for students. ! around the Hall just now—no, not rush
Rate $8.75 per week. =~ ra be made immediately 7 ees t W.
Nisbet, or to. any of the following members of the Residence.
_Committees:, |

himself a wife, in the person of Miss
Agnes Raat — Mr.
: and ‘Mrs. 8S. N. Davis, New Glasgow.
WALK UPSTAIRS AND They were united in the holy bonds of

SAVE TEN matrimony..at Columbus Manse, Hopey Rev. oe Munro, on

ing past thedoor, It is said, however,
that the collection of pictures is incomplete owing to the fact that all the
prints of several real good action snaps
of the first game were bought up by one
of the senior forwards. Br—c— may

the strains of the wedding march soulfully rendered by Wiek he descended
the. stairs leaning: slightly on the arm
of Sam. Proffit, who had never deserted
him, and accepted the seat at the head

  
     
 

STUDENTS!
DON WwW

DON’T THROW
YOUR OLD SHORS AWAY ]

  
  

Ss T U D E N TS ! Wednesday, Ootober “ ack. vig ; eat fey re in olden days when tee tn _ know the details.
I invite aren! to inspect ay new MAGEE TIC oo of ‘Arts and Science Society, and # Ua GooDysAR ¥ eee. ere ‘he hear ~ al b sonar sengnel mnetns: pig S
Overcoat. —— | 9 hte | | hice  *‘Balifax. re BO even ‘80 earts Tesidents wanted to pring up tne
detachable, all round served his country in France the J Ge now. It wil be worth your of his brethren. Never was conversion question of lemon pie, presented last

   
    

week. It is rumored that Pop even
- went so far as to bring the pie itself. A
_ few of the wise birds called for a cut—
and won. A.

!

inverted pleated back—quilted and polo, War. He made himself famous re
epee tle "A tale year aticollege by léading the Pine so rapid and fervent: One look at the
Hill - Pi ; ' =

midegroom’s face and all was changed.
Vanis red ever thought of justice, restiation and chovtibémeat—cad the night

 

uate the | een tale
attendance book and calls the roll twice ?

 

- @reen explorers in a balloon often
' fall to earth quite soon. aS

~~

 

   
4

 

Education And Labor

J. §. Woodsworth, M. P., in the
course of an address to the students
made some remarks which he believed
should be received with interest by all
Canadian students and which should
command their serious consideration.
The speaker in comparing Canadian colleges with those of the Motherland deprecated the apparent lack of interest
manifested in economic questions and
more particularly those which immediately concern the vexatious problems of
capital and labor, by both professors and
students.

The Ruskin School at Oxford claims
such great economic thinkers as Bernard
Shaw, H. 'G. Wells, Beatrice and Sidney
Webb, and other universities in England
have developed men who gave of their
time and ability to the study of the complex organization of industrial activity.
Oanadians must awake to their responsibilities and it is to the students of this
age that opportunities unheard of previous to now, are being offered for real
service in this field of endeavour.

Much is heard of education saving
the world, just as many have referred
to the present vaunted civilization as the
result of education.

But it is a sorry spectacle to an overworked, poverty-stricken,  ill-housed
laborer—and one little wonders why
there is a revolt against the dogmas
which have been expounded under the
guise of education. Only when professors
and students take a more active interest
in the conditions under which these
workmen live will these latter people put
faith in education as the saving force of
the world. It is to the students of the
present to quicken their thought in this
regard, to renew or to arouse the quest
for knowledge of the more fundamental
economic laws and sociological principles, and to practice, when leaving the
halls of learning these habits of living
and canons of business morality which

will work to the best interests of the entire community in which they are placed.

Democracy in its truest form will not
be reached till there obtains a closer cooperation between the employer, the employee and the consumer. There can
never be a state of political democracy
till the dawn of industrial or economic
democracy has begun to glow. The
clarion call goes forth to students of
vision, of sincerity and singleness of purpose to usher in the day when the gigantie problem which now confronts the
world will have passed away and a new
dispensation conforming to the highest

code of ethics will be made permanent,
Ais O. 8. R. je

 

Picking good friends is a process jf

queer; you can’t land them with gun nor
spear. '

ow

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

CORRESPONDENCE

(The Gazette accepts no responstbility for views expressed m this
column,

Correspondents are requested not
to, exceed three hundred words.)

 

The Editor, The Dalhousie Gazette :

Sir,—I understand that the large reception hall of the new Girls’ Residence
is to be tiled instead of hardwood, as
was the original plan. I can_ scarcely
believe that anyone in authority and
with a true interest in Dalhousie, would
permit this to be.

This hall, with the adjoining drawing room, is intended primarily for entertaining, and it is almost unthinkable
that in the whole future of Shireff Hall
no large dances will be held there, simply because of the thoughtlessness of the
authorities. |

This matter is of vital interest to
every student, and should be taken up
and strenuously opposed by the Students’ Council, This should be done immediately, as no change can be made
once the floor is down. M.

PHARMACY OFFICERS

At the first meeting of the class in
Pharmacy, the following officers were
elected for the year:—L. H. LeBlanc,
president; W. R. Pearo, vice-president ;
F. J. Godfrey, secretary-treasurer.
After a short discussion of routine business the meeting adjourned.

The class this year is small compared
with that of 1921-22, there being only 18
enrolled. Mrs. (Dr.) Covert, of Canning, N. S., fills the role of chaperone
charmingly. Dr. Hugh Bell is conducting the classes in Botany this term, and
Mr. Alfred Trask, gold medallist of
1922, is ably filling the position of assistant to Dean Burbridge.

 

‘Tis better to have travelled and
never tarried than never to have travelled at all.

 

FALL AND WINTER
SUITS and OVERCOATS
TO MEASURE ~

Now is the best time to. order
your SUIT or COAT. Fine display

of Imported and Domestic Suit
ings and Overcostings — Blacks,

  

 

 

 

 

i YOUR DRUGGISTS
MACLEOD & BALCOM

LIMITED
SOUTH END PHARMACY

E. M. MacLEOD
34Y, Morris Street. Tel. Sack. 245
| QUALITY SERVICE

WEST END PHARMACY
S. R. BALCOM
Corner Spring Garden Road and Robie St.
Telephone Sackville 314

| NORTH END PHARMACY
F, §. CHITTICK
| West Young Street. Hydrostone District
| : Telephone L-1884

 

MADER’S CAFE

(Open Day and Night)

       

Now’s the Time for

Roast Chicken
_ and OYSTERS

        
   

| 15 GRANVILLE STREET
Phone Sack. 1392 HALIFAX, N. 8.

      
 

 

‘LIMITED —"——_

Colwell Brothers

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
128 YOUNG STREET

HATS BAGGAGE

MEN’S FURNISHINGS

HENRY S. COLWELL.......csccccccssecsevess President
GARNET J. COLWELL......sccceeeseees Vice-President
RAY J. COLWELL... .cccsccssccssscccccccecvees Director
CYRIL H. COLWELL.... «ssscesess Secretary-Treasurer

ALPHA, BETA tiviaven” vr won you
Alphabet, but won't you
learn the Alphabet from a music dealer's text book.
It starts like this:—

‘Hace Bebe Bain
Cremenaphon,"Cornets, Calo,
Celesta Clarionets, Drums,
EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC.
We also carry a nice line of Pictures—_
Harrison Fisher's Maxfield Parrish’s, etc. .
We Invite You to Join Our Fiction
Lending Society, 2c per flay. —

 

 

 

 

Dental Prophylaxis

The Dental Infirmary still continues
to flourish in ‘spite of the fact that the
third year have been practising for at
least three weeks and are all willing to
try anything once. Even in this short
space of time many have been the big
words that have been met and mastered.
Chief among these was ‘‘Prophylaxis”’,
which was indeed a sticker, but when it
finally ‘became plain that it was not kept
in a bottle and given by the spoonful
things went better.

After investigation, however, it was
found that it was merely the application
of a tasteful concoction (formula known
only to the mixer), which one sweetly assures the children is another form of
molasses candy. This mixture is diligently applied by means of a round brush,
which goes round and round, throwing
the candy around the teeth, around the
mouth, around the face and around the
room in general. It was this round
about action which inspired some wit to
remark that Prophylaxis was then merely aroundabout way of saying ‘‘Cleaning
the Teeth’’, ng

By dint of perseverance many have
learned that the word patients was simply a slang for patience—not the
patience upon the part of the patient
patients but that patience of the patient
student who wasted patience upon the
patient patient.

Immediately following the first
Materia ‘Medica lecture Murray Logan
was appointed to personally investigate
and report upon the maximum dose of
procaine. At the time of going to press
Mr. Logan advises that he has successfully navigated three capsules but that
the final conclusive results of his research will be found shortly in that column of the local papers titled ‘‘Obituary’’,

» While the less experienced wrestle
with the problems of the day the fourth
year serenely continue to extract, fill and
bridge. It is said that Vic Calkin, when
ere a napkin about a patient’s
neck, both professionally and automati
cally still assures her that she is getting
back to ‘‘Bib days’’, while it is persist
  

Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd.
Changed from |
Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.
—_——- TWO STORES
26 Spring Garden Road
119 Young Street
GENERAL DRY GOODS '
_MILLINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING.

    
    

 

    
     
   
   

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

ently rumored that Clay continues ‘to
cover the ground. |

Few realize that there’is a class of
'26. ‘This class at a largely attended
meeting recently appointed Mr. K. K.
Beaton President, Mr. K. Beaton ViicePresident, and Mr. Beaton, SecretaryTreasurer. This we were assured was
no put up job and by no mean a family
affair. This class further challenges all
other classes to show where they all
made the Football team and all live in
the same place. Incidentally ‘‘Ken’’
Beaton is the only member of this class.

The First Year Dentals, twelve in
number, held a meeting recently and
elected John McCurdy, President, and
J. A. Tupper, Secretary-Treasurer.

 

A beautifully framed, enlarged portrait of the late Dean Woodbury has
‘been placed in the Dental Infirmary.

 

_ Rush of work has necessitated additional help in the Infirmary and Miss
MacPeak is at present assisting Miss
Littler in managing the office—and the
patients.

 

Dr. Young, one of last year’s graduates, who spent the summer in charge
of the Dental work of the Red Cross
clinic, is away again in this work, but
expects shortly to settle in Kentville.

‘THE MOUTH MIRROR’.
SORTA SECRET STEP.

Two would-be ‘‘dizzies’’ were revolving about on the dance floor.
May—I know something you don’t
know.
Ray—What’s that ?
May—You’re on my foot.
— ‘Topics of the Day’’ Films.

  

Year Book.

the work.

 
 
  

Diamond
Merchants

  
 

GIFT SUGGESTIONS

A comprehensive assortment of attractive Gifts, rare in
quality and reasonable in

We make: School and Class Pins, submitting sketches on
request, giving an estimate of cost before proceeding with

A Copy of the Birks Year Book will be mailed on request.

493-497 Barrincton Staser

A
to ee

Opinion of a Co-ed

General Regret That Shireff Hall Is
Not Ready For Occupation.

_ Now that the noise of building operations prevents students from attempting
to sleep during lecture hours, a ‘great
deal of interest is manifest on the part
of the student body in general. Especlally is this so in the case of the fair
Co-eds at Studley who wander across
to the southwestern corner of the campus and daily gaze upon the structure
of their future residence—Shireff Hall.

The Gazette, wishing to obtain an
opinion as to how the girls regarded
present conditions, sought out one of the
fairest with the following result:

‘‘As [ was walking thru the hall at
college the other day I overheard the
reply of one of the fair sex to her male
friend, ‘‘Oh! a very nice summer, but:
I’m glad to be back’’ and she has only
voiced the opinion of many of us, for
much as we enjoyed the summer, still we
were glad to return, and it is only a
few of the ‘‘expected’’ who have not
arrived. It is regrettable that the new
residence is not as yet completed as we
were promised it would be, but we can
only hope that with the new year will
come the much-looked-forward to event
of living in Shireff Hall, making it possible for the girls to become better acquainted with each other and to enjoy
the college life only found in residence.
It is hard to get used to living out in
the city as we miss the congenial atmosphere found in the Marlboro, even if
there was only a small number of us,
It makes us lonesome to see the place
forsaken entirely when we recall the
good times of only last year.’’

  

   

prices, are to be found in Birks

      
        
    

  

Goldsmiths
Silversmiths

   
 

 
  

Henry Birks & Sons Limiteds

  
 

a ee

On Thursday evening, October the
19th, the-Medical Society held its first
meeting for the term 1922-23; The
president, F. L. ‘‘Dinty’’ Moore, was
unable to attend on account of D.A.A.C.
business, so Gordon Bruce, vice-president, occupied the chair.

On the arrival of ‘‘Tubby’’ Milne, ten
minutes late, the meeting was called to
order. The secretary, ‘‘Fabie’’ Bates,
read the minutes. Mr. Bruce then explained the minutes, reported for all
committees and stated the business of
the meeting and the aims and ideals of
the Medical Society. Minutes, reports,
aims and ideals were all passed and approved unanimously. For speed and
efficiency all hats must be taken off to
Gordon Bruce, As regards procedure—
what do Meds know about procedure
anyway? Iu his opening remarks Mr.
Bruce said: ‘‘For the benefit of the new
men I will let you know what the Medical Society embraces.’’ (Hear! Hear !
Violent applause from Zinck).

After a small amount of discussion a
social committee was appointed to look
after the annual Medical Dance and the
giving of entertainments. The secretary was instructed to notify the honored of their appointments.

The question of finances was next
brought up. This gave promise of
lengthy verbal encounters, but the vicepresident meant business and the secretary looked as if he were out for blood,
so it was very soon settled that the
Medical Society membership fee for this
year would be.one dollar and that thirtyfive. cents would be collected from each
member at, the same time to pay for the
special Medical insert in the handbook.

After the money question had been
settled Lincoln Zinck, the Lunenburg
athlete, rose in a bashful manner, but
warming to his subject delivered an impassioned appeal for whole-hearted support in producing a first class Medical
football team. Mr. oe sat down io a
limp condition amid deafening applause.
ond Me, Popplestone tanned. hin with
his Dunhill pipe. On motion the meeting adjourned.

Owing to the-press: of business there:
was nob time to formally introduce: the
new men to the Society, but it is hoped
that the Social Committee will shortly
prepare for this: ordea? and surpass the
ceremonies of last year. H.

 

A LIBEL, SUIT.

In consequence of a letter from the» |

of X-ray, published in The Gazette
laet week, an action for libel has been
commenced by Messrs. Beazley, Lougand: Ferguson, solicitors for Mr. R.

K case will be tried in
Moot Court of Dalhousie in the near

 

 

COMING HOME.
I
When. the long shadows fall on the

pathway,

And day slowly draws to a close,

When the slathering lights drift through
the forest,

And earth at last sinks in repose ;—

How sweet to come home through the
twilight,

By meadow and pine wood and stream,

To hear the low wind in the grasses,

To wonder, to think, and to dream.

The dusk, like a mantle of velvet,

Is laid on the mountains afar,

The evening is silver with silence,

And crowned with the gold of a star;

The light-hearted friends have departed,

Their laughter has ceased for the day,

I left them far down in the distance,

Alone, to return o’er my} way;

And I ‘hear in the brook’s muffled murmur of onward and onward,

In the song of a bird floating down
through the deepening gloom,

In the whispering breeze, in the throbs
of the stillness around me

I hear the refrain:

Coming home, coming home, coming
home.

Il
When the last shadows close on Life’s

pathway,
That slowly leads down to the west,
When the tired feet linger and falter,
The weary heart hungers for rest ;—
Oh ! perhaps it is sweet to come homeward
Across a wide waste of the years,
To walk ’neath the place and the silence
Away fromi this valley of tears.
The struggle and stress of the battle
Reeede with the daylight’s pale beams,
And out through the lowering darkness
The lamp of eternity gleams;
The friends that I loved have departed
And silently gone on their way,—
I follow the road they have travelled
Alone, at the end of the day;

But I hear in my soul, sweet as music —

of bells in the distance,
And soft as the moonlight that falls on
the ocean’s white foam,

“NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY
1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
PHONE LORNE 53

a
~

    
 

and all Floral Work

  

— -————

The voices of angels that journey forforever beside me
Repeat the refrain:
Coming home, coming home, coming

ome.
JUANITA O’CONNOR.

It’s a bad turn that causes a collision.

—— TH E ——

YOUNG MAN’S STORE

The best stock of Up-to-date

stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
| Hats and Caps in the: City.
| Call and inspect our stock
| before purchasing.

W. F. PAGE ‘ton 'dcree st.

HALIFAX, N, 8.

        
 

Your Future ?

Some day, perhaps to-morrow, you will need money.

 

      
     
    

If you have not saved what
will you do?

 
        
    

If you: have been wise and
have saved the future will
not worry you.

      
   
       
 

The easiest, quickest and :
most satisfactory way to:
| obtain money is to save it.
I

    
     
       
    

~ Save from your allowance

- now, make regular deposits |
in the Bank and: financing), |
your needs will be the Feast) |
of your worries later on in |
life.

           
     
       
  
 
   
  
 

   
  
 

  

THE.
ROYAL BANK
OF CANADA |

     
   

Over 100 Branches in the

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Second Tie Game of
Series at Studley

Showing ‘considerable improvement
in the work of the half line, and out
playing their rivals throughout the
game, the Dalhousie Senior fifteen
were however held to a tie in Saturday’s Rugby game at Studley.

Neither team was able to cross the
other’s goal line for a try, both scores
resulting from free kicks. It looked as
if a Varsity player were over on several occasions, but valways there was
something to spoil the attempt; either
the player had stepped over the touch
line, or the referee’s whistle proclaimed an infringement of the rules. However, such are the breaks of the game.

Fluck, Kelly McLean and Kenny
Beaton were injured, and each, though
visibly jaffected in his playing’ as a
result, Stayed pluckily in the thick of
the game until the end.

There was no score in the first period
though Dalhousie had a shade the better
of the play.

Seven minutes after the second
period - opened, the Red and Black
were given a free kick on the strength
‘of heeling a caught ball, an opportunity which Lilly took to send a place
kick over the Tiger goal posts for the
first score. Just three minutes later,
however, Mont. Haslam, taking a penalty kick, showed his skill at drop kick
ing and. in spite of the difficult angle,
tied the store.

From then on the Gold and Black
were néver far from the Wanderers’
ten yard line, but were unable to break
through their defence.

Flack, at fuligack, though lamed by
an injury to his knee early in the game,
did some good kicking. ahs

With Langwith back again, the Dal
half line worked the best yet this season. He showed consistent cleverness
‘and his customary reliability when in
difficult situations. Coster and Bates
‘worked hard, while Mont. Haslam was

o_o id, playing his ‘best game this
oo It was unfortunate that the ball
d not get out to him more oftén, as
y. was not slow in advancing

‘ft did come his way.

Capt. ‘‘Dirity” Moore and Beaton
Were right on the job at quarter, but
lid not gét much vhance to feed the ball
to the half Yine, as the eight man
(3-2-3 _ serim failed to heel the
ball clear most of the time. This formation’ has not proved to be a “howl‘ng success’’ in the last two games.

   
    
  
 

Dalhousie Swimming Team
Practices.

Manager MacInnes has had his men out
to practice at the Y. M. C. A. tank several
times, and is confident that they will soon
be able to hold their own with any aquatic
aggregation in the Provinces. rry
Schaffner, Hebb, and Oakes have shown
ability, and there will be lots of opportunity
for more candidates to demonstrate what
they can do in the water. Watch the
notice board for practice hours!

ssisistmanseressseensseepneienitesesetteenientnntsieseennnsiitenianeaanal
as in the last game, Bruce, MeKenzie,
McLean, Baird, Jones, Logan, Sutherland and Orr, everyone being aggressive and not afraid to tackle.

The burlesque game was staged between the Intermediate and Senior
games.

The Pine Hill band had the professor’s goat, and a lively one it was too.
He was apparently an opponent of the
‘‘cap and gown’’ movement, as he was
quite obviously adverse to wearing his
mortar ‘board at a dignified angle.
The balloon scheduled to ascend between the periods of the big game went
up dramatically—in smoke.

The Dal Intermediate team showed
a hundred per cent improvement over
last game, and defeated the Wanderers’
Seconds 5 to 3. Phinney showed up in
this game, as did Mitchell.

ARTS AND SCIENCE WIN.

‘Bill’ Morrison’s ‘*Red Dogs’’,
despite the effect of intensive coaching in the Law smoking room, went
down to defeat before the Studley
‘Latin Scholars’’ in the first game of
the Interfaculty Football League
series, held late Thursday afternoon.

The play was very close, and surprisingly good, considering the lack of
practice of the players. The only
score of the game came near the end
of the first period, when Oreighton tallied for Arts-Science, his well placed
drop kick making the score 4-0.

Archie Robertson was very noticeable at quarter, his capacity for embracing the embryo legalists being amazing.

Colquhoun played well for’ the lawyers on the touch line, being responsible for several appreciable gains. The
Arts ‘flag waver’’ did his ‘best, but
was outclassed by ‘Davy.’

 

Gordon Bruce was a very satisfactory referee, showing just that degree
of good judgment required,

Yale 38, Williams ‘0.
Harvard 24, Centre ' 10.
New York Univ. 7, Columbia 6.

‘ Prineeton 16, Maryland 0,
)) Cornell 14, Colgate

"0,

 

  

Intercollegiate League

EASTERN SECTION

Dalhousie Intercollegiate team plays
Kings today at Windsor. The Kings
boys have always proved themly a surprisingly good team for the
selves good sports, turning out annualmaterial available. The ‘‘Windsorites”’
have not shown up very well against
Acadia and Mt. A. in 'practice games
this year. but mav show added strength
today. Those who accompanied Dal’s
team will see a good game, played by
clean players for the sport’s sake.
May the best team win!

WESTERN SECTION
Acadia and U.N.B. will play off for
the chammionshin of the Western Section. Intercollegiate League, this week
at Fredericton. The odds seem to be
with Acadia to win.

Queens took the lead in the Senior
Upper Canadian Football League by
defeating Varsity in a very close game
at Toronto on Saturday by a score of
15 to 13.

THE HOME OF

ATHLETIC GOODS

Including Spalding’s
Famous Goods.
Football and Track Outfits.

Here you will find men of
your own age and! interests
\to serve you with things you
want at prices you can pay.

ey 4 , 131
BELL S GRANVILLE STREET

    

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. ‘We can
supply you with everything for Sport
Life. Also Pocket Knives, Razors,
Shaving Supplies.
We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys —
‘land’ Stockings.

Morton & Thomson

      
       
   
“Read It and Weep”

(Ye editore of this Krazy Kolum,

while knowing full well that there is
nothmg new under the Sun, is desirous
of securmg am original title for his
weekly harvest.
...-I'herefore Be It Known that he
offers a reward of 9,876,543,210 rubles
—one large suit case full—to the possessor of the idea.)

 

I felt his soft breath fan my cheek,
And the gentle touch of his hand.
His very presence near me—
Seemed breeze on a desert sand.
Deftly he sought my lips—

My head he did enfold;

Then he broke the silence with—
‘‘Shall the filling be silver or gold?’’

 

Latin Prof.: ‘‘The au in audio is
pronounced like the ow in bow-wow. Now
give me the infinitive, please. ’’

Desperate Student: ‘Ow Dearie!’’

 

The bird who plays
A saxaphone
By all means ought
To live alone.
—Enquirer.

 

Don’t lose your bearings at the sight
of a bear.

 

Advice to students who -have other
uses for “‘the Almighty Dollar’’ than
that of using it to purchase text books:

Borrow the books you need for your
next term in the spring. When Autumn
arrives, the chap from whom you borrowed in ‘the spring has forgotten he
ever loaned you any books. (Dr. HE. W.
Nichols).

 

HER MOVE,
Gushing Girlie—I believe I’ve
dawnced with you before, haven’t I? |
Her Victim—I dunno, if you have
why don’t you do it now ?
—Vaudeville News.

 

She who drums on
' A pianner
Should surely slip
On a bananner.
—‘‘Topics of the Day.”

 

The young man was two days late in
registering.

Well,” he was asked, ‘‘what have
you to say for yourself ?’’

‘¢T’m sorry,”’ he replied, ‘‘but I really
couldn’t get back before. I was detain; ee business.’ = —

he registrar looked at him sternly.

_ ‘*So you wanted two more days of grace,

did. : 9”’, he e red. Be leg
_*No, sir, of Marjorie,’ was the answer, — ee aa od lk

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Annually the first university dance
of the ‘season, the ‘‘Freshie-Soph’’
Dance held on Friday evening at the
Roseland Gardens was highly successful in every way, providing an admirable welcome for the Freshmen (and
Freshettes) to Dalhousie social life.

The Class of 1925 proved themselves excellent hosts indeed, providing
every requisite of enjoyment. Hvery
one of the twenty-three dances was a
treat, perhaps the most notable being
the ‘‘confetti’? dance, which caused
‘‘no end of a flurry’’, as surprised and
besprinkled couples scrambled to escape the shower.

The chaperones were Mrs. McMechan, Mrs. ‘Copp and Mrs. Munro, each
of whom carried out her duties in a
very gracious manner.

At the conclusion of the fourth
dance, Mr. Wallace Sedgewick, Pres. of
Class of 1925, welcomed the guests in a
short and witty speech, Mr. Gordon
MacOdrum, President of the Freshman
Class responding fittingly on their behalf. |

The entire arrangements for the
function were carried out by the Sophomore Social Committee, composed of
Messrs. Jack Campbell, Gordon Winfield, Lockhart ‘Travis, and Misses Harriet Elliott, Isabel MacDonald, and
May Linton, assisted by Mr. J. H.
MeNicoll.

How often a perfectly good
garment is discarded because
it is soiled and stained. That
is because its owner does not
realize our wonderful process
of French Dry-Cleaning, which
restores old clothes, and makes
them look like new.
Why not try us?

- Phone Sack. 428 .

Laundering, Cleaning, Dyeing

| FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY

Footwear for all times and sea
sons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store
Bs to Dalhousie

  

 

    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

 

 

HIGH QUALITY
NOTE BOOKS |

If you want note books with superior
paper and strong binding, we have
we have the best.

 
 

  
   
     
 

A Splendid Loose Leaf Note Book ‘

Complete for 65c.

FAULKNER’S

168 Spring Garden Rd., Halifax

    
   
 

  

  

| *

| Your Education

| is not complete if confined to
printed books and lectures.
Visiting the interesting and
popular places in every city
helps a lot.

We know of no place more popular
or interesting in Halifax than

~~ TH E-——

New Green Lantern

 

|Moirs Chocolates

the famous confection of Dalhousie
students for generations, because
they are the freshest, have the most
varied fillings, and are covered by
the most delicious eating.

 

         
 
 
  

 

MOIRS LIMITED, Argyle St.

 
 

| BOB JOHNSON’S
BARBER SHOP

ENJOY A SHOWER BATH
OR TUB. ma

     

 
 
 

An ‘ ;
. : » a . a rs
22 f ! " I af m7 a = ~ va ot A ee , &
e z = dy me tag Ne 7) , % : : al ; ‘7 ‘¥f \ * = en -* Wy
SEP eR TEM Hl te eye ie = eee Oe ARS SO hie te a ae
5 pains HR Ia bb), 4 ii SS Se gil ode? at ' ith i >

 
