 

FOUNDED 1869

Vol. LIV.

The Dalhousie Gazette

—Founpep 1869—
Ong DortarR Per YEAR.

IssueD WEEKLY.

Business Manager - - J, R. NICHOLSON, B. A.
a 77 Queen Street.
Editor C. F. BOWES, B. A.

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable
to the Business Manager.

Associate Editors

Miss Ereen Burns Mrss MABEL MORRISON .
D. C. COLQUHOUN R. F. CALLAN

M. C. Chay C, R. BAxTer

G. C. MacLgop R. M. RICHARDSON

J. G. Foeo

Sports Editor --- - - J. A, Duniop

Special Reporters

Miss M. O. MADDEN;
L. A. Munro;

Miss RopertaA M. Forpes
W. G. PorRrter

 

Colleges as a rule, have interests
other than acquiring a certain fixed
amount of knowledge and after four or
more years, passing out to conquer the
world with a degree.

In past years the average student
at Dalhousie knew something of the activities of the various societies that ex- Isted in the University. If you asked
the average Freshman here now what
the United Student’s Council was, he
would give you the hazy answer that it
was some body that fined the students
for disobeying fixed rules and which
enforced the decrees of the Senate.

This is not the proper function of
the Council and it is time the average
undergraduate took an intelligent interest in that body. The Students’ Council
is elected every year to look after student interests. Up to the present writing
the existing U. 8. CO. has held two full
meetings. This state of affairs is, to
ag the least, lamentable. The result

been an ever-increasing restlessness
the larger part of

ition of
: pon. their various
activities that to them appe
Discontent has nc

unfair.

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 18, 1922.

 

would have to be made of these conditions but the reason it has to be mentioned should be sufficient to convince
any right-minded student that things
have not gone as usual; they are far
from normal and the only remedy is
for every undergraduate to take more
interest in the various activities of college life. One does not have to be an
officer in college organizations to do this.
The Gazette is using its humble efforts
to bring about a much-needed improvement.
* *¢ @ @

We wish to announce that our next
number will be a humorous one——at
least we hope it will be——a¥fthe material contained therein will be intended for
humor.

EXCHANGES

King’s College Record.—The Xmas
number of this magazine contains a
statement from the study body with
reference to the almost certain closing
down of the college at the end of this
term. This article is extremely well
written and should give plenty of food
for serious thought to those whose duty
it is to look after the welfare of this,
the oldest college in the Dominion. We
hope that that with this the beginning
of a new year, the church which owes
Kings the duty of backing her up financially, as well as spiritually, will see to
it that this ancient college, the oldest in
this Dominion, will not be allowed to
pass out of existence because of a lack
of funds. Surely her past history as a
college will act as an inducement to the
church which she has served so well to
see that Kings carries on.

Xaverian.—The December issue of
this publication is not quite up to the
usual standard. Perhaps it was because your minds were taken up with
the Memorial Rink you are building.
We tender our congratulations and
trust that by the time this reaches you
the rink will have been of some service.
‘Thoughts for Christmas’”’ is the best
of the verse articles while ‘‘ Another
Gambler’’ heads the short stories.

The Argosy.— ‘Christmas Roses’’
is our choice of the verse eee
while ‘‘Shadows’’ is the only prose article. However your magazine is well

d with — aor ee We
rote your complimen remarks regarding our ‘publication—the space
given oe aes a compliment in itself.
- ‘The ent.—This

e con
tains some aphorisms for the episanee, :

&
=
gare
Pre 4
¥ :

The Dalhousie Gazette

 

No. 3

 

of contributors. We are going to take
the liberty of reprinting two of them
for the benefit of contributors to the
Gazette. Here they are:—

‘‘Let your heart be bold, your spirit
sanguine, and one side of your paper
empty.”’

‘Misuse not the tongue of Shakespeare.”’

McMaster University Monthly — An
article on Chaucer’s ‘‘Prologue’’ is well
worth reading and is the only prose production of merit in the November issue.
Some verse and a few jokes would improve this magazine—now that you have
a creditable cover design.

Athenaeum — ‘‘ Evening on_ the
Prairie’’ is our choice of the verse contributions while the second article
on ‘‘Kugenics in Social Advancement”’
shows careful thought in its preparation. The various college activities are
well written up.

The Quill—The November issue of
this publication has an article on Bliss
Carmen and: gives an extract from his
poems entitled ‘‘Vestigia’’. We hope
you will soon surmount the difficulty
you are experiencing in connection with
your Memorial Gymnasium fund. A
few jokes and some short stories would
improve your magazine.

The Gazette acknowledges with
thanks the following exchanges.

McGill Daily, East and West, Varsity, Truro Daily News, The Parrsboro
Record, The Manitoban, McDonald College Magazine, an article on Nova Scotia
from the ©. N. R. Magazine, various
circulars from the Department of the
Interior, Ottawa. 3

The Ubyssey.—The cartoon ‘‘Ready
for the Count’’ picturing a student ‘‘in
the ring’? with Examinations is very
good and will appeal to many students.
The verse ‘‘Analogy’’ will find favor
in the eyes of those taking English I and
II. The jokes are good and altogether
this December number is a creditable
production.

Blue and White —The Rothesay Collegiate December number is a very
creditable production and should serve
as a model for some of our college
monthly publications. ‘‘Brought Back
the Cup’’ is clever. Congratulations on

our successful football season. We
trust tad hockey will be equally successful.
The Wycliffe—The December numr of this magazine contains an interesting article ‘‘The Clergy in Mnglish

(Continued on Page 8)

- r 2a
: 2 a ~
: , a:
F :-_ Sa
7 5 j + a
z , ‘ 3 oe
; = 7 = 5
= 1
F = j 7 = A , a ze
5 ‘ . ‘. a se ye gee ie ee: | ee

  
   

GLEANINGS FROM THE RESID

UNIVERSITY HALL
Messrs. Poirier, Bruce and. Ellis
were confined to the house for several

days with a severe cold.
éveral ofAhe inmates have vacated

the Residetice for other realms—Fogo
is’ going on duty at the School for the
Blind. Two have gone to the Y. M. C.
A., and a couple more have gone to live
with friends in the city.

The billiard table has been re-covered and fitted with new cushions, so our
indoor sport will soon be in full swing
again. |

The meeting of the U. 8. C. Monday
evening provoked much discussion. It
is such an unusual event this year
that it kind of upset the equilibrium of
things. We suppose, after all the excitement of this meeting, they will go
back into their unnatural slumbers till
the spring semi-annual.

Considerable disappointment is felt
over no interfaculty basketball league.
It is to be hoped the new gym will be
finished in time to run a short league
in February. May be that ‘‘advisory
board’’ could help the D,. A. A. C.
secure a building—with no available
‘funds to pay the necessary.

The boys have been watching the
open air skating on the ‘‘Waeg’’ rink
and the watching has brought reminisceences of a promised open-air rink at
Studley. In case the person who suggested the idea in the Herald does not
know, open-air-rinks usually break up
during March. |

Forbes wishes it known that Foyo
having left his bed and _ board, he
(Forbes) will not be responsible for
any more debts incurred by the said
Fogo.

We were very surprised when the
summer-time holders of the Morton &
Thompson trophy were defeated by the
_ Antigonish team the other night. Apparently winter weather does not agree
with their ideas of holding a hockey

tr ;

mr Ifan Williams, of the Conservatory of Music, gave a short violin recital after supper on Thursday 12th.
We wish to thank Mr. Williams for his

THE MARLBOROUGH

Again we have settled down to the

- ordinary routine of college life and have
be@ome quite resigned to residence regations after two perfectly wonderful

_ idle weeks. Life is quiet and one might

| :
‘ ae

 
   

  
   
      

'
f
i r
pe! 7
| ,

  

  

“4 *
4 DY
7

     
 

resolutions made at the |

(HE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

one has tried out. all the places of interest where one might indulge in that sport
with the result that they severly criticize the ability of the management of the
Arena to make ice, altho a large crowd
was attracted on Wednesday, ‘‘Dal’’
night, only to find that after skating the

whole evening they had used up nearly |

every ounce of energy they possessed.
On that eve the still more sporty ones
of our midst tripped the light fantastic
with the ‘‘Four Hundred’’ reporting a
gay and giddy affair

Lately not many men have been seen
around this domicile, yet on one particular occasion, apparently without a reason one mysterious male creature was
seen wandering about the back yard;
what for, we may know some day, but
Dorothy had difficulty convincing the
Higher Power that some one had not
got in the window. Such insinuation is
preposterous, to say the least.

Not much enthusiasm is shown about
the proposed dance, but we feel sure
that it will come to pass and the ‘‘chosen few’’ will be treated to a real a:

PINE HILL

The past week was quite uneventful,
the only things which would be really
interesting being tales of the holidays.
It is told that John MacNeil spent his
vacation shovelling snow. Deacon Sutherland was storm-stayed at ‘Her’ home.
Karle Green spent his two. weeks visiting his aunt (?) (1) in Stellarton. Cliff
Grant was seen holding a big baby, dolllife size, on the station platform. Rod
Grant, Clueston and others whose homes
are in parts remote, ate and slept at the
residence during their holidays.

It must be confessed that some of the
boys, when suffering from ennui, combine funds, thereby getting two or three
nickels, and thus making use of the
‘phone to dispel their gloom. But it has

 

Lo ee
eatin
ze

ENCES

 

been whispered that there are several
phones in the city and even several
groups of Dal boys, on mischief bent so
it might be well to warn any innocent
and credulous female not to believe
everything heard over the ’phone.

Harold McCurdy and Newsome ——
and Bill Dunlop have left us for abodes
nearer the college. We shall miss all of
them. MeCurdy’s generous help in
Physics, Math, ete., will be hard to replace. We welcome to our midst Hamilton W and Anderson, who
are installed in the places of the
departed. ,

Chisholm, MeDonald, Creelman and
Harry Langwith who have been on the
sick list are moving around again,

NOTICE

Mr. J. G. Fogo who has been reporter
of the doings at University Hall has
changed his place of residence and Mr.
W. G. Poirier has been appointed to
succeed him. Mr. Fogo has been given
a place on the Associate Editor’s staff.

©. T. H-r-s-n, seeing Dr. Fraser
Harris proceeding cellarwards without
his gown, ‘‘Is that the new janitor?’

  

Dalhousie Headquarters

| FOR
Sporting Goods
We welcome the Boys of Dal. at

our store at 40 Sackville Street.

We can supply you with every
thing for Sport Life. Also Pocket
Knives, Razors, Shaving Supplies.

Morton & Thomson

   
   
  

    
 

Announcement
teeny
THE TARR ‘under
ment of ce ie ty
John M | Dentietsy

Bae

         

ul

    

As
want.

    
  
  
  
  
    

students

 

 

  

COMMERCE CLEARINGS

The Commerce Society has seen its
first New Year, which naturally made
its thoughts turn to resolutions. One
of these is to continue the course of Business Men’s Lectures, begun in 1921.
Mr. Crowell has received promises of
lectures from Messrs. W. A. Black, MacGillivray and Silver, all of which will
doubtless be very interesting. The day
set for the first lecture is Friday, Jan.
20th . All students are invited to attend.
It is a great advantage to Dalhousians
to have these lectures, delivered by such
able and prominent business men, and
all students should show their appreciation by attending in large numbers. So
far the attendance has been large, but
it can be larger. !

Many of the Commerce students are
Haligonians but a few have not that
happiness. Some of this latter number
had considerab‘e difficulty in getting
back to the city on account of the recent
snowstorms. But the forces gradually
eollected and at present the ranks are

full. Juanita O’Connor
ENGINEERING NOTES
The Engineer’s basketball team

again played the ‘‘Tech’’ in the Tech
gym—and this time the victory went
the other way, to the tune of 30-22. The
om was played at 5 p. m. on January
th. Manager Maxwell is intending to
arrange for a play-off.

It seems as if the well laid plans of
the Engineers for the interfaculty league are to come to nought. To date
they all depend. on the drying out of
some hard pine Dictipnsoneiah is certainly a quantity no one seems to be
able to integrate well enough to give a
possible date. We wonder if it really
will be the ‘‘Convocation Hall’’—sogalled at the ‘‘Wanderers’’ meeting held
a short time ago. ae

All the Engineers are back from the
holidays with the exception of HE. A.
Bayer, of Sydney, who received severe

aay a basket ball game in the

 

MEDICAL NOTES
The death of Mr. Alexander Andering the Christmes holidays was
wit. at regret and sorrow by

  

   

miss his gen
WHAT THE

.

Fe

THE DALHOU SIE GAZETTE

The gift of ‘Ansback’s G naecology’
by Dr. Morton to the 4th 4 was anamb,
ly appreciated by the students of that
class, and through the columns of the
Gazette they wish to extend their thanks
and appreciation. We might say that
Miss Chase will profit by this gift, as
in the drawing for same she was the only
one to spin a ‘‘take all.”
ace regret to report a number of

alties in our r
past few weeks, ae

First to be mentioned is’ Monte Has.
lam, who is still confined to the Victoria
General Hospital suffering from injuries received in a hockey practise in
New Glasgow during the Christmas
holidays.

Dennis Moriarty underwent a guccessful operation for appendicitis in
Camp Hill Hospital on Saturday, Jan.
‘th. Though still ineapacitated from

this disturbrance to his anatomy, Dennis.

hopes to be back with us in the course
of a few days,

Clyde Holland, 4th year, is also suffering from a severe eold, contracted
hy drinking from a damp mug.

 

NOTES OF THE LAW SCHOOL

The first 1922 meeting of the housie Law Society wee’ bald in =
Moot Court room on Thursday, the
special purpose for which the meeting
was ¢alled being to start preliminary
work for the Mock Parliament. A committee was appointed to prepare for an
election and, after it igs held and the
hew government installed, to call the
first Session of the parliament together. This committee consists of R.
M. Fielding, J. F. Mahoney and J. G.

‘0g0, one Irom each of the three years.

No sooner was the meeting held
than the intrigue, manipulation and logrolling, whieh has characterized the
whole college year, started all over
again. Special interests, which seem to
be representing all the parties, and
some of them apparently backing no
party in particular, started already to
carry on propaganda to have the will
of the people thwarted by endeavoring
2 Bos off ™ ition we ' sr

overnment, consisting of a select clique
from all three of last years parties, an
mei ae ae public affairs.
kinds of things may be expected
in the platforms which the Gatides
a ~ 7 i at _ innocent
electors in a few days, perhaps before
pe ebro ples os
es { its platform printed
verbatim in The Gazette, they will be

referred to Business Manager Nichol
son and soaked double rates. One party

   

is said to be in favor of a plebiscite be
fore any exams

are required to be
written.

As a result of a communication sent
to Dean MacRae, it igs likely that Mr.
Justice B. Russell, of the Supreme
Court, for about a third of a century
one of the principal lecturers at Dalhousie Law School, will give a lecture
in the Munré Room on ‘Reminiscences
of the House of Commons’. Mr. Justice Russell } a former member of the
Ottawa house‘ himself and his lecture,
coming so soon after an interesting
Dominion election and on the eve of
the Mock Parliament Sessions, will be
particularly interesting to the Law
Students, though it will be open to all.

It is probable also that W. J.
O’Hearn, K. C., lecturer on criminal
law at the Law School, President of
the Neva Scotia Bar Society, Deputy
Stipendiary Magistrate for Halifax,
and one of the leading criminal lawyers
of Canada, will give a lecture to’ the
students of all three years of the Law
School on ‘‘Extradition’’, a subject in
which Mr. O’Hearn specializes.

FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY.

Footwear for all times and _seasons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store to Dalhousie

THE SPRING GARDEN
SHOE STORE

W. FENTON, Manager.
25 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

5% Discount to All Students

 

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
PHONE LORNE 53

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
|: and all Floral Work

 
aes ; , we
’

a

4

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

 

————

re

INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTR
ARTICLES |

By H. RITCHIE CHIPMAN,
(Continued from Last Week)

The distillation of the coal is carried out in either by-product coke ovens
or coal gas retorts, depending on whether the chief aim of the plant is to produce coke or gas. If coke ovens are
used, the coal is loaded into the oven
which is heated by gas. The coal distills and the gas is collected, part of it
being used for illuminating purposes
and part for heating the ovens. The
coke, which is left in the ovens, is used
for the manufacture of Water Gas or is
sold for foundry purposes. A portion
of the coke is generally so.d for domestic use. If coal gas retorts are used
the coal is placed in the retorts which
are heated by coke and the gas collected as before. In this case all of the
gas is used for illuminating purposes
and part of the coke is burned and part
sold. In all cases the coke is pushed
out of the retorts or ovens by a mechanical pusher and is quenched by a
stream of water. It is a striking pic
ture to see the huge mass of red hot coke
coming out surrounded by clouds of
steam formed when it meets the water.

~ As the gas comes from the coal, it is
not fit to burn as there are many substances in it which must be removed,
either on account of their va-ue, or of
their dangerous effects, The chief substances are:—Tar, Ammonia, Sulphides, and Cyanides.

The gas is first passed through a
series of coolers and then into tar extracters which consist of a series of
perforated plates arranged so that the
perforations do not coincide and the
gas must pass many corners to get
through. This motion of the gas
causes tar to be deposited on the plates.
This tar is removed, added to the tar
which, condenses in the coolers when the

as cools, and is sold to chemical plants.
Toone this coal tar is made the large
number of complex organic substances
known as the ‘‘Coal Tar products’’.
It is from these substances that many
of the dyes are made, go.

The gas then enters the ammonia
separators where it meets a stream of
water. The apparatus is so designed
that the soluable ammonia is dissolved
in the water in a most efficient manner,
and is completely removed from the

as. The solution of ammonia is then
stilled with steam and lime to obtain
the ammonia. The ammonia is then
ed into sulphuric acid where it is neuralized forming ammonia hate.
his salt is removed, dried and so

  
 

This is a most important

 

rs y
: Laid : . _ 4 ; ' 2 =
roduct of the Gas Industry.
rit’ a
+ t % - : a é.~
ry i = = a oe
ae a : a. =a ie ev '
: ft ¥ =n , ¥

for |

   

 

throngh layers of shavings and rusty
iron. The iron removes sulphides and
cyanides from the gas. When the absorping power of the iron and shavings
is exhausted, they are either thrown
away or sold to chemical plants for extraction of sulphur and cyanides. This
depends on conditions governing the
prices of these chemicals and also on
transportation.

The gas then passes through the meters and into the holders which are
seen in the neighbourhood of ‘every gas
plant. Although the gas has now been
purified of its undesirable components
and all the valuable products have been
removed it is not always fit for use.
Coal gas is not a simple substance and
contains many gases. In some cases
the gas does not contain enough gases
which give illumination and carburetted water gas which-supplys this defficiency is added.

Water Gas is made by alternately
blowing air and steam through a bed of
red-hot coke. This gas burns with a
blue or colourless flame and must be
‘‘carburretted’’ or enriched before mixing with the coal gas. This is done by
spraying oil into the presence of the
hot gas when the oil is split up into
light-giving gases. As the quantity of
oil can be regulated, it will be seen that
this is a good method of controlling the
luminous properties of the coal gas.
There are several other reasons, chief.y
economic ones, why water gas should
be added, and nearly every gas company does this.

The water gas has to go through a
similar process of purification to the
coal gas, but there is no ammonia to extract from it. Tar and sulphur are obtained as before. The gas is then mixed
in the correct proportions with the coal

gas and stored in the holders.

A coal gas plant must run continuously and if a ‘‘bench’’ of retorts 18
stopped it takes perhaps three weeks
for it to heat up to the maximum temperature. On the other hand,,a water
gas plant can be started and stopped in
a few hours, and is thus useful to take
care of any unexpected demand. Chemical analyses of the gases are continually being taken and the various steps
of the process accordingly adjusted.

It pe plex be Renner that ~ —
ation of illuminating gas is not such a
simple operation as might be at first
thought, and that the distillation of soft
coal gives many valuable products besides coal gas.

(Heard on the way from church.)

A. B.—to ‘‘the sweetest F.—”’ ‘That

:
ae

   
   

 

* Pie nF ; ‘
ahs a4 iS 4 .
> oc ‘

A. & W. MacKinlay

LIMITED

PUBLISHERS, STATIONERS
AND MANUFACTURERS OF
LOOSE LEAF OUTFITS.

Depot for Swan Fountain Pens

College Paper Stamped from Die
135-187 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX

FALL AND WINTER
SUITS and OVERCOATS
TO MEASURE

Now is the best time to order your
SUIT or COAT. Fine display of
Imported and Domestic Suitings
and Overcoating — Blacks, Blues, ~
Fancy Worsted Tweed.

CLAYTON & SONS

JACOB STREET

CLIMO

ART PHOTOGRAPHER
501 BARRINGTON STREET

         
    

See our New Styles in
College Photographs.
Special Prices to All Students.
Phone Sackville 1395 for Appointment.

    
        
   

  
    

 

Colwell Brothers

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
128 YOUNG STREET |

HATS —— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS ~

   
 

  
     
 

   
   

WENRY §, COLWELL esssssscsssssessseesssProaldent |
GARNET J. COLWELL, sutton eeees seees Vice-President |

THE DALHOUSIE GAZET tH

 

| Fate and The Man|

By “F. A. 0.”
I

At last his decision was made; and
John Deane, owner of the small general
stores Kstablishment, threw himslef into his armchair and gave free rein to
certain dark thoughts: thoughts which
were well calculated to furrow any honest man’s brow and strike alarm and
consternation to the hearts of his nearest neighbors.

For three racking days and as many
s.eepless nights he had pondered the
‘‘to be or not to be’’ of the secret matter
and now he was as fully determined.

‘It’s got to happen,’’ he muttered,
‘for [’ll be swamped before the end of
the year, as sure as day.’’ And relapsing into a moody silence, he stared
heavily around at the well-stocked
shelves and recently dressed windows.

For five years a shop-owner in the
little village nestling at the foot of the
Lavantille hills, John Deane, living on
the second floor of the Establishment
with his fifteen year old son, Joseph had
earned the reputation of being a hard
miserly man, who mercilessly exacted
his pound of flesh from his unfortunate
debtors, and whose only redeeming quality was his love for the curly-haired,
intelligent boy who called him father.

Devout worshipper at the shrine of
Mammon as he was, Deane, his miserly
instinets, unopposed by the influence of
the good and faithful wife, who had
died ten years ago,untiringly preached
the gospel of gain and sang the song of
the almight dollar to the young Joseph,
but to no purpose; for ,while honouring
his father, as in duty bound, and making
an adequate filial return for the care and
affection of which he was the recipient,
Joseph’s better nature refused to be
associated with those degrading tendencies which, he had already observed,
earned for his father the increasing contempt of some and the hatred‘ of many.

The business of the day was over,
and the one clerk whom the mean-souled
Deane employed as an assistant, at a
salary which want alone compelled the
young fellow to accept, was ae
things in order before leaving for his
home, just half a mile away; Joseph
was at his desk in one of the back rooms
adding up the cash and credit sales for
the day. He was not long thus engaged
when he heard his father’s call.

6)

ming, Dad,’’ he answered, being.
ing down his last total, and closing the
Jay Book, he went into the small, ten
elve apology for a saloon, where
und his father seated on one of the

 
   
   

  
 
  
 
 
 
 

; t=) = 2 as <
ee = Si a ie iL. ; : ” ‘ 4
1 - = J eS al ¥ =*
* ¥
toh oF ty J
4 i ce ee rs

‘*Yes,’’ answered the old man without turning round. ‘‘Made up the books
yet?’’

‘‘ Just finished.’’

‘‘Where is Richard?’’

‘*(Jone, sir; it’s after eight.”

‘‘Then I,fear you will have to do
this errand yourself. This letter must
reach Mr. Craile tonight; it’s about the
ten bags of cocoa which came in from
Arouca today. He lives in Belmont;
you know the place, don’t you?’’

‘Yes, Dad.’’

‘*Well, you can do it on your bicycle.
I won’t expect you back tonight, as the
journey is a long one. Sleep at your
aunt’s and come up early tomorrow.’’
And drawing a letter from his pocket,
he passed it over to the obedient Joseph
and bade him begone ere it got darker.

Ten minutes later Joseph wheeled
his bicycle out of the backyard and met
his father waiting for him at the gate.

I wouldn’t go by way of Charlotte
Street if I were you, Joseph,’’ he admonished; ‘‘trams, cars and other traffic pretty thick there. Better pass
through Piceadilly.’’

**T will be careful, Dad.’’

‘*Very good; here is a shilling for
you; you may take in a turn at the Belmont theatre, if you get there in time,
and see what’s going on.”

Surprised and delighted by this unwonted munificence on the part of his
parent, Joseph mounted his bicycle and
rode away with a cheerful heart, little
dreaming of the coming everts with
which Fate had charged the next few
hours of his young life.

(Contimued on page 6)

THE DALHOUSIE REVIEW

The last number of the first volume
of the ‘‘Dalhousie Review’’ was presented to its readers on the day before
Christmas, and right bountifully did it
bring peace and good-will among men.
The optimistic note is early struck by
the Editor in a retrospect of the first
year of the life of his magazine. The
‘Dalhousie Review”’’ is steadily increasing its circulation. For the future there
is a promise of ‘a fuller and more
varied service.’’ One of these, it is understood, is the opening of a department in which the discussion of articles
published in the Review will be a main
feature.

Professor Stewart is to be congrat
ulated on the remarkable success of his
literary venture; and there is no doubt
that with his inexhaustible energy and
his indominable courage he will go on
‘from strength to str > until
ultimately there will be none from

coast to coast who will not be subscribers

to, and partakers of, the benefits of the

  

rr

— THE —

YOUNG MAN'S STORE

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

W. F. PAGE "essen, Sts

HALIFAX, N. 8.

ALLEN’S

THE LEADING BOOKSTORE

 

      

 

 

   

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
ee eee Supplies of

 
   
   
    

Commercial and Society Stationery.

—Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

    
 

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.

 

   
 

Chocolates

the favorite confection of Dalhousie
students for generations, because
they are the freshest, have the most
varied fillings, and are covered by
the most delicious coating, .

MOIRS LIMITED, Argyle St.

 

   

Neilsen & Mills

26 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

SPECIAL—Evening Dresses to Measure in
two days, including all materials,
$18.90 to $33.50. |
LADIES’ TAILORING DEPT.

Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed.
—— OUR LEADERS ——
Broadcloth, Velour or Pure Indigo Blue Serge
SUED. vccecccecgcadcsacedddevenseccseccsvesves -$49.

 

     
       
       
   
 

ae hans ie 8 hee ae ‘ > ¥ eal! s rk?
ra as ee Pe de A ee ee a 1 Oe ee a eee fs 4
 

6

{HE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

aaa as

 

FATE AND THE MAN
(Continued from page 5.)

Joseph was gone, and the father was
alone. The idea which had germinated
in his brain a few days ago was now &
fixed purpose, and with deadly swiltness he made his preparations with skill
and determination.

First, he fetched out from his storeroom some gallons of kerosene oil.
This he poured on the wooden stairs,
soaked a bale or two of paper in it,
dashed it on the bare flooring, and covered the puddles with dry straw and a
wild litter of crumpled newspapers. A
quanity of unsaleable prints was next
requisitioned; this was dipped into the
kerosene tins and streched in loose coils
from counter to shelves and from one

iece of furniture to another. For three,
‘long hours he toiled unceasingly, confining his attention to the store proper
and the front rooms. And at the end
of that time the fell work was done.

He was satisfied with his elaborate
arrangements at last. Going upstairs
he changed his clothes after removing
all traces of his recent toil by the free
use of soap and water; then taking his
hat and stick, he went out for a short
walk, for the purpose of cooling his
fevered brain and to see whether, by
any chance, his movements had attracted the attention of his neighbors or any
casual wayfarer.

Fortune seemed to have favoured
him: everything was quiet. His plans
seemed to him masterly in their completeness. He had got the boy safely
out of the way. The fire, once started,
would spread with terrible rapidity in
the dry wooden building, and long before the brigade could reach the spot
the evidences of his crime would be totally destroyed. No one had pried on
his proceedings, and his integrity would
be unsuspected. He had. been insured
for years, and nobody but himself knew
how keen had been the struggle to keep
up appearances, and that now he was
fast nearing the end of his financial
tether, and ruin stared him in the face.

‘But what about your near neighbours?’?? whispered the voice of conscience. ‘‘Their properties are uninsured, and much misery: is likely to reeult from your step.”’

But John Deane was not the man to
turn back, having once set his shoulder
to the plow of incendiarism, which, he
expected, would soon ensure him a harvest of gold. And with a grunt of indifference he obeyed the beckoning of
his self-made Fate and bent his steps

 

unlatch

homewards.
“Tn the small hours of the following
m he descended the stairs with
pallid face and tre bli limbs, lit a
candle passed silently from room
fall stopping in the little
back office the oor of which he had already unlatched. fer

4 t ‘ 4

=

Here he watched and waited. He
dared not stir from the place yet, ardently through he longed to escape from
the growing peril. He must wait until
the fire was in full swing, for to raise
the alarm too soon would be to invite
the unwelcome assistance of neighbours,
the last thing he desired.

Grack! Grack! Orack! The muffled
report of the wind-touched blaze sent a
shudder down his spine.

The fire fiend was moving with a
will,

A sudden fierce roar rent the silence,
a terrible glare lit up the ground floor,
and a hundred devouring tongues of
flame writhed up the stairs, walls and
shelves, while the unchecked advance of
a living sheet of fire soon turned the
place into a blazing inferno.

With a loud ery he dashed open the
door and fled into the street.

(To be Continued Next Week)

SAT URDAY BASKErBALL KESU LTS

Dalhousie, 44; Crescents, 11,

Y. M. C. A., 26; Wanderers, 25.

St. George’s, 19; St. Mary’s, 7.

The biggest surprise of the evening was the
defeat of the Wanderers by the young players
of the “Y”. This is the first defeat the Red and
Black quintette have suffered in the past year.
Dal had little trouble in winning from the Crescents, and it is probable that the Half Moons
will drop out of the league to enable the Technical College to come in.

—$—$—$—$— $$

CAUGHT IN THE NET.

Don’t forget to be on hand on Friday. night, to help Dal win her opening
game in the City league against her old
rivals, the Wanderers. Hven without
Fluck the Tigers ought to be able to
triumph over last years league winners,
who when they lost Boyd lost half their
team.

The Interfaculty Hockey league gets
away tonight with Arts and Law providing the fireworks. A ‘‘out-throat”’
schedule was all that could be arranged
on account of the dangerous condition
of the U. 8. CO. funds but no doubt the
rival faculties will arrange for exhibition games. Law last year’s champs

expect to put another winning combination on the ice this winter, but then Arts
with only one team to support have far
the advantage in numbers and ought to
he able to rake together half a dozen
stars of the first magnitude. The Pharmadents and Medicine clash a week from
today and the play off for the imaginary
trophy takes place the week following.

 

Lawyers lead again in the new federal cabinet. Hon. D. D. MeKenzie,
solicitor-general; Hon. A. B. Copp,
secretary of state; Sir Lomer Gouin,
minister of justice; Hon, Ernest Lapointe, minister of marine; Hon.
Jacques Bureau, minister of eustoms;
Hon. Charles Murphy, postmastergeneral, and Senator Dandurand, min‘ster without portfolio; seven of the
ministers are all practicing lawyers.
Hon. Hewitt Bostock, minister of public works, who is to become speaker of
the Senate, studied law and was admitted to the bar in Mngland, but instead of practicing
ranching business in British Columbia.
Hon. Mackenzie King, the premier, obtained a law degree at Toronto University, but never practiced law, his
profession being given as journalism.
There are two other newspaper men in
the eabinet—Hon. George P. Graham,
minister of defence, and Hon. W. 8.
Fielding, minister of finance. Hon. W.
R. Motherwell, minister of agriculture;
Hon. Charles Stewart, minister of the
interior, and Hon. J. KH. Sinclair, mini¢ter without portfolio, are farmers, in
addition to Senator Bostock. Farmers
thus are next to lawyers im number,
There are three business men—Hon. J.
A. Robb, minister of trade and commerce; Hon. T. A. Low, minister without portfolio, and Hon. W. 0. Kennedy,
minister of railways. The other min‘ster-—Hon. H. 8. Beland, minister of
health and soldiers’ civil re-establishment—is a doctor. If Hon. Dr. J. H.
King, of British Columbia, takes Senator Bostock’s place as minister of publie works, that will make two physicians in the cabinet. Hon. Rodo
Lemieux, who is to be speaker of
Commons, is also a lawyer,

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVAL SERVICE

tion in Naval Science.

Particulars of entry may be
Service, Ottawa.

 

Publication nt of this advertisement will not be paid for.

 

ROYAL NAVAL COLLEGE, CANADA

The Royal Naval College is established for the purpose of imparting « complete educg
Graduates are qualified to enter the Imperial or Canadian Services as midgbipmes. A
Naval career is not compulsory, however. For those who do not wish to enter the Navy the
course provides a thorough grounding in Applied Science and is accepted as qualifying for
entry as second year students in Canadian Universities.

The scheme of education aims at developing discipline with ability to obey and take
charge, a high sense of honour, both physical and mental, 4 good grounding in Science, En
gineering, Mathematics, Navigation, History and Modern Languages, as a basis for general
development of further specialization.
obtained on application to the Department of the Naval

:

| ae
Ce ial dames ik te on ooo |
disaster, the Royal Naval College is located at Esquimalt, near Victoria, B. C, : |

G. J. DESBARATS |
Deputy Minister of the Naval Service. |

he went into. the .

 

 

    

Dalhousie Loses
Both Games
In Boston

The great Boston trip of the Dalhousie hockey team is over. For the
first time in the memory of the present
generation at least, a team representing the Halifax institution of learning
have invaded the United States; ‘and
although the Tigers lost both games,
neither the team nor their followers
are downhearted. True it is that the
majority of the student body were confident that their team would return
with at least one victory to their credit,
particularly as both McGill and Toronto
had had a comparatively easy time im
cleaning up the Yanks. But our Southern neighbors were too good for our

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETT

GAZETTE SPORTING PA

 

 

team, with the result that they lost to ==

Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
3 to 0, and the Crimson of Harvard 4
to 1. .

There is no necessity for any alibis.

 

DALHOUSIE HOCKEY TEAM
Left to right: T. P. Horsler, forward; Parker Hickey, forward; Roe McK :
forward; Gordon K. Smith, defence; Stephen “Duke” Mclsaac, seal ted ‘ae lo Finck

a —

defence; Art Lilly, centre; Rod McDonald, manager.

 

But the Geddess of Fortune certainly

little favored the wearers of the Gold and Black.
According to the sporting editor of the “Boston
Post”, in the opening game against Tech, the
“Tigers, from their icy jungle in the frozen
North” had fifty shots at goal, as compared with
a baker’s dozen for the home team. Again, in
the Harvard game, our players lost many opportanities from wild shooting and over anxiety
to cage the disc.

In spite of the week’s training at New Glasgow, the team was not in very good shape; certainly was not going at the pace that it was
during the middle of last winter. Their opponents on the other hand have been put through
the most strenuous kind of training, known only
te American colleges.

The Boston sport writers offer many peculiar
eomments. Before the players arrived in the
Hub, one prominent paper announced that the
Tigers were all giants, averaging 175 pounds.
Then after the first Tech game, the chief reason
advanced by another scribe for the defeat was
the small size of the “Duke’s” pads. According
to him the ones worn by Nickle, the Tech goalie,
Were twice the size of MacIsaac’s. No wonder

 

on his geography to say the least. He says: “If
Dalhousie composes the main team on the Island,
then the Arena management will have to look to
Quebec and Ontario for competition.” Just
what Island he refers to is not stated!

Dalhousie only. incurred one penalty in the
two games. Horseler was given a rest in the
Tech game for crashing one of the Engineers
into the boards. This same player was injured
in the Harvard game, as was Roe MacKenna.
neither one of them seriously, however. “Bricky”
Dunn scored the only Dalhousie goal in the third
period of the Harvard contest. What little praise
the sport writers of “Beantown” do bestow on
the Gold and Black, they allot to “Bric”, whom
they pronounced “the best of the visitors.” The
following players represented the college in the
two games: Goal,Capt. ‘Duke’ MacIsaac; defence,
Jack I. MacNeil, Lee Fluck; centre, Art Lilly,
Brick Dunn; forwards, Roe McKenna, Fabie
Bates; Tom Horsler; spares, G. K. Smith and
Parker Hickey; manager, R. C. MacDonald;
chief rooters, Tommy Hayden and Basil Courtney. |

While in the Hub the team were well looked
after by the Canadian citizens resident there, and
particularly by the Canadian Club, who entertained them to.a banquet. In addition they attended the Harvard game in a body, royally rooting for their compatriots.

INTERFACULTY HOCKEY.

A provisional schedule was drawn up at the
first of last week, by which Arts and Law were
scheduled to clash this Wednesday evening.
However, as this schedule only called for three
games, it was nop satisfactory to some of the
faculties, with the result that a new six game
schedule has been agreed upon. The first four
of these games will take place in the Arena the

 

last two probably in the South End rink. This
ought to provide all lovers of the great battles
iof the ages with carnage to their hearts’ content.
The first game played this evening will be beg
tween Medicine and Arts.

BASKETBALL
St. Georges Trim Dal. in Opener 28-26.

Dalhousie may not win the Oi
Basketball league this year, but if re
does not, then she will give the winner a
real run for the trophy. The gold and
black lost out in their initial game with
St. Georges by 2 points, the final score
being 28 to 26. With the Saints were
lined up the two best men of last years
Tech team, Morrison and James, while
Dal had lost three of last years regulars. The two recruits ‘‘Red’’ Grant
at centre and Mader forward showed up
well with the rest of the team. The
boys worked hard, but played clean so
that there was not a personal foul called on any of them thruout the game.
The Saints secured their usual number
of field baskets. Maybe it was skill, but
it looked a lot like luck from the side
lines. Manager Jimmie Graham is
keeping his boys in fine trim and he
wants all aspirants for the team to turn
out as soon as possible. There are still
five vacancies says ‘‘Jimmie’’ if you
can show that you are better than the
next fellow. e line up for the initial
game was as follows: Forwards: Clint
Muir, Ike Ferguson, Ivan Mader; Centre, ‘‘Red’’ Grant; Guards, Ted Coster,
John MacNeil; Spare, ‘‘Pasty’’ Miller,
Wilson,

 
EXCHANGES.
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1)

Fiction.’’ The most important contribution is that entitled ‘‘Secondary
School Reform.’’ Verse and a few jokes
would improve this paper.

The Quill—The Christmas issue of
this magazine shows a distinct improvement over previous editions. Your
cover is attractive and within it are
found contributions of merit. The verse
‘‘Terror of Exams’’ is good and the
article on University Life in Sweden is
interesting. Apparently you have not
been receiving our paper, but we have
taken means to have the present and
future issues forwarded you.

The University Monthly.—The November U. N. B. publication contains a
poem entitled ‘‘Trees’’ written by one
of the university’s distinguished graduates, Bliss Carmen. ‘‘8. O. 8.’’ is an
instructive article. The poem ‘‘The
Unknown Soldier’’ is well written. We
acknowledge with thanks the complimentary remarks made by your sports
editor re our foot ball team and will say
that we hope the good felling which has
always existed between Dal. and U. N.
B. will continue.

Acadia Athenaewm.—‘That Idol of
Carten’s’’ is the best short story in the
December issue. The article ‘‘Square
Pegs’’ shows careful thought and is
worth reading. We heartily agree with
the sentiments expressed in your editorial re protests. The ‘‘protest’’ germ
which has found its way into intercollegiate sports will mean the death of
such; sports unless the colleges become
innoculated with the idea that ‘‘squealing’? is not going to help them, but
rather lower them in the eyes of the
public.

The McGill Daily —We would congratulate you on the successful ‘tinvasion’”’ of the United States by your
senior hockey team. The article ‘‘Colleges and Pigs’’ is worth reading.
‘Pepys at McGill” is cleverly written.
Your jokes are good and the activities
of the student societies are well written

up.
F The Gazette acknowledges with
thanks the following:
Western U. Gazette.
Truro Daily News.

‘Bast and West.

The Military Gazette.
The Parrsboro Record.
The Presbyterian Witness.

 

‘‘Bthel,’’? he whispered, “will you
a me?’’ |
“JT don’t know, Charlie,” she re
r TCL whan you find out,’’ he said,
rising, ‘‘send me word, will yout
shall. be at Mabel Hick’s until ten

i a Sitar” = 2 ie ad
: ci ws Se ~
“ iS d q
ee . i P
tes A hf ia ee “ ’
yy 3 _ ohh = oe ¥
7 e :

  

 
   

     

 
    

  

  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
 

a DATHOUSIO GABOR

— THE —

NA -DRU -CO.

Line of Toilet Articles
Perfumes and Family

Remedies

Every man’s Education should
contribute to his welfare, comfort and enjoyment, and hence
NO MAN’S EDUCATION is
complete without a practical
knowledge of the Nadruco Line
as above.

 

National Perfumes are exquisite, novel and lasting. Are
made from the most rare and
pure ingredients, by men of
many years’ experience. They
are unexcelled by any other
makes, whether Domestic or

Imported.

National Toilet Articles are
Effective, Delightful and Tastefully Dressed.

Nadruco Family Remedies are
manufactured by expert chemists from formulae that have
been tested for years and will
give you satisfaction or your
money refunded.

All articles uired in these

lines are, as r as possible,
BOUGHT IN CANADA.

The goods are MADE IN
CANADA, and are a Credit to
Canada. :

NATIONAL DRUG &

CHEMICAL CO.

Limited

—HALIFAX BRAN CH—
NN,

A GIF

 

Your Future?

 

Some day, perhaps to-morrow, you will need money.
If you have not saved what
will you do?

If you have been wise and
have saved the future will
not worry you.

The easiest, quickest and
most satisfactory way to
obtain money is to save it.
Save from your allowance
now, make regular deposits
in the Bank and financing
your needs will be the least
of your worries later on in
life.

THE

ROYAL BANK

OF CANADA

Deposits Exceed $470,000,000

Over 100 Branches in the
Maritime Provinces

 

 

 
    

for the ‘‘somebody’’ you have in mind
‘ will be pretty easy to find with such a

comprehensive assortment of things as is found in the Birk’s

Year Book.

Tell us how much you want to sperid—we ‘ll make some

suggestions.

We make School and Class Pins, and Fraternal Jewellery.
We also submit sketches on request, giving you an estimate of
cost, before proceeding with the work.

| WRITE FOR THE BIRKS YEAR BOOK

  
 
      

   

 
