 

nas
si.
.

 

 

The Dalhousie Gazette |

 

Vol. LIV.

Che Dalhousie Gazctte

Founded 1869
Issued Weekly - - - - One Dollar Per Year
EDITOR - - - «+ + + J, GORDON FOGO

Associate Editors
Miss Roberta Forbes Miss Amy McKean
Miss Juanita O’Connor’ OD. C. Colquhoun
R. F. Callan M. M. McOdrum
H, A. Creighton, B.A. R. R. Dalgleish
P. M. Cassidy
spbete Editor - - - - . BE Read, B. A.

Special Reporters
D. R. Webster, B.A.
A. Chester Smith

Staff Artists
Miss Rose Leslie C. W. Currie
BUSINESS MANAGER, J. R. Nicholson, B.A.
129 Spring Garden Road

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable to the Business Manager.

EDITORIAL |

A. C. Milner

Weleome to Dalhousie. New students, old students, new professors, old
professors, the Gazette extends to you
a hearty welcome, To the students who
are returning to their studies there are
many pleasant friendships and associations to be renewed and continued in the
future. College life with its many jJoyous incidents and happy days commenees again after a brief respite, and
before you there is a glorious year in
which much can be accomplished. May
it be for you a most successful term. To
the neweomers much will be said by
practically every speaking element in
university life, particularly by the professors, but it remains for the Gazette
to greet you on behalf of the student
body. The young student, suddenly
transplanted to a new environment, in
a different atmosphere and with changed surroundings, sometimes loses sight
of the principal reason for which he

came to Dalhousie. While it is well that”

all students should take an active and
intelligent interest in the various college activities, he, or she, should always
remember that there is a definite purpose for which one attends a university,
and that is, after all, obviously the most
important phase of all.

C, F. Bowes,M. A., who occupied the
editorial chair of the Gazette last year
and filled it in a very creditable manner,

*

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 18, 1922

has gone to Harvard to continue his
studies. Mr. Bowes gave practically
all his time to the affairs of the publication and merits great credit for the
manner in which it was conducted during his term of office. We wish him
success in his new location.

Thanks to the splendid efforts of the
Advisory Couneil of the D. A. A. C. we
return to Dalhousie and find that during the summer vacation the campus
has undergone a series of changes which
delight the hearts of all. The new
bleachers with their many rows of seats,
sufficient to accommodate nearly two
thousand spectators, are material evidence of the aetivity of this worthy
body. The surface of the playing field
has been improved by levelling and is
now in excellent condition for football
and other games. <A seheme of repayment for these structures has been
adopted by the governing bodies and
the students are asked to co-operate in
order that the indebtedness may be
written off'as soon as possible. Further,
with the assistance provided by the
funds derived from our own playing
field, we shall be in a much better financial condition than in previous years.
Dalhousie can now invite outside teams
to come to Halifax with the assurance
that there is a means of procuring
money for a guarantee. Get behind the
D, A. A. C. Give it your support so
that this year will be a banner one in
athletic circles.

 

The Gazette congratulates Dalhousie
on its good fortune in securing professors — all with excellent records — men
who are leaders in their particular
spheres. Professor Hugh P. Bell, His
Honor Judge Wallace, Stewart Jenks,
K. C., Deputy Attorney-General F. F.
Mathers, K. C., Professors CC. L.
Bennett, H. 8S. King and W. R. Warne
assumed new duties this term. We
welcome them to Dalhousie, to which
they will bring a wealth of learning and
trust their work may be as pleasant to
them as it will be profitable to us.

With this issue the Gazette commences another year of its career, the
fifty-fourth. As a college paper, the
oldest in Canada, it has many traditions
to be upheld.
years has been high, and this year we
hope to be able to maintain the excel
(CONTINUED ON PAGE EIGHT)

The standard set in past

No, 14

THE LITERARY “D”

What It Means and How to Win It.

One of the highest honors which a
student may win while he is at Dalhousie is that of obtaining a ‘*D’’,
Whether this be gained for prominence
in the world of sport, in football, hockey
or basketball, or by means of his ability
in other lines remains largely with the
student . |

This article is intended to introduce
vou to the institution known as the Literary ‘‘D’’ which is awarded to students
for contributions to the Gazette. This
Literary Competition has now been in
existence for two vears and during that
time ten awards were made, four during
the first year and six in 1921-22. The
prized emblem is presented to the
successful students in the form of a
gold ‘*D’’ suitably engraved. One of
the features of the Class ’22 exercises
last spring yas the presentation of the
four ‘*D’s’’ won by members of that
class, Professor Howard Murray being
called upon to address the winners and
present the prizes. Now, perhaps,
some are wondering how one should
proceed in order to win one of these
coveted emblems. The answer is not

difficult. Write an article for the
Gazette; write a few verses occasion
ally, if you are poetically inelined; or
perhaps vou have keenly developed a
sense of humor, write out the jokes
that you hear, even direct hits are not
barred if they are not offensive. All
contributors to the Gazette are. credited
for the material they submit to the
Editor and at different times during
the year the standing of all contestants
is published in these columns. Twentyfive points entitles a student to a Literary ‘‘D’’, Elsewhere in this issue will
be found the present standing.

 

DALHOUSIE’S POST GRADUATE
COURSE

Dalhousie’s Post Graduate Course
for the medical profession ‘of the Mari
time Provinees has proved a success. |

It is hoped that bigger things develop
from it in the future.

Dr. Finlay Macmillan of Sheet Harhor, the oldest living graduate of the
Medical College was in attendance. A
pleasing feature was the presentation
to ‘him of a gold headed cane by his
brother practitioners, ae
2

THE NEW PROFESSORS

Four Outstanding Figures Join the
Faculty of Arts.

Dalhousians welcome home Hugh
Philip Bell, Ph. D., (Toronto), Assistant Professor of Biology. Professor
Bell graduated B. Se. from Dalhousie
in 1912, and M. Se. in 1914. In 1920
he received the degree of M. A. from
Toronto University. He holds a Headmaster’s License from the Provincial
Normal College and as Vice-Principal
of Lunenburg Academy 1912-13 and
Morris Street School, Halifax 1914 he
gave splendid service.

On military service in 1914; England
1915; France 1916; wounded 1916, returned to France in February 1917 and
finally invalided to England late in
1917; musketry officer at Seaforth until the Armistice, when he returned to
Canada,

C. L. Bennet, Assistant Professor of
English was born in New Zealand. Received his earlier education at Otago
High School and the local University.
Professor Bennet served through the
war in the gallant Auckland Regiment,
rising from private to the post of Regimental Sergeant-Major. He won a New
Zealand Government Fellowship in
Cambridge where he _ specialized in
KMinglish literature. Professor Bennet
is possessed of a winning personality,
is widely travelled and is welcomed as
a decided acquisition to Dalhousie life.

Harold Skinner King, assistant Pro
fessor of Chemistry, graduated A. B
from Harvard in 1917. He has had a
distinguished student career, has held
a Carnegie Research Fellowship, an
Emerson Scholarship and a Fellowship
from the Anon. Fund. Previous to his
Dalhousie appointment Professor King
held the position of Research Chemist
with the famous Dupont de Niemens
Company. He has engaged in research
work on the Separation of Isotypes and
has written ‘Correlation of Atomic
Structure and Spectra’’ (Journal Amer.
Chem. Soc. 1922.) | |

Walter Roy Warne, instructor in
Mathematics ,graduated from Syracuse
University, in Liberal Arts in 1911. Received the degree of Ph. B. from the
same university and in 1914 the degree
of Pd. B. from the Syracuse Teachers
College. He has acted as Instructor in
mathematics, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y.; Head of Mathematical Department, Dickenson College, Carlisle,
Pa., and as Mathematical Instructor in
Pennsylvania State College.

 

Kiss With Care
Ray—Let’s kiss and make up.
May—well, if you are careful I

won’t have to.
—‘‘Topies of the Day’’ Films,

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

st

SOCIAL NOTES

A wedding of particular interest to
Dalhousians was that of Dr. A. C. M.
(Arabella) Mackenzie, daughter of the
late Christopher Mackenzie and Mrs.

Mackenzie of Middle River, C. B., to
Surgeon-Lieut. Archibald McCallum,

R. C. N., son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert
McCallum of Toronto, in St. Matthew’s
church at one o’clock, October 3rd. Dr.
Mackenzie, a graduate in Dentistry,
class 716 from Dalhousie, was the first
lady graduate in dentistry. Since
graduation she has attained very great
professional distinction. Dr. MeCallum
is a surgeon at the Dockyard, Halifax
and has made many friends since his
residence here.

The wedding was a naval wedding,
the groom and his attendant being attired in naval uniform. The ceremony
was performed by Rev. John A, Clark,
with Alan Reid, organist, rendering
Lohengrin’s wedding march.

Another wedding particularly interesting to Dalhousians was that of
Minnie Vivienne, daughter of Dr. John
Miller and’ Mrs. Miller, Canning, to F.
F. Chute, B. A., M. D., C. M., son of Mr.
and Mrs. P. S. Chute, Berwick. Dr.
Chute is a graduate of Dalhousie Medical College, Class ’22, a graduate in
Arts from Acadia University and was
on the teaching staff of Acadia University. Mrs. Chute graduated in violin
from Acadia Seminary, with post graduate courses at Mount Allison and Boston. Dr. and Mrs. Chute are residing in
Canning where Dr. Chute is practicing
his profession.

At seven o’clock on the morning of
Sept. 12th the wedding took place of
Dr. M. J. Carney and Miss Evelyn
Lewis. The students who were able
to attend said the wedding was ‘‘grand”’.

After the ceremony the happy couple

left for a motor trip through the Maritime Provinces, carrying with them the
good wishes of all connected with the
Medical School.

In the afternoon of the same day,
Dr. A. B. Campbell, Med. ’21, and Miss
Daisy Morrison were married at Park
Street Church. Dr. ‘‘Danny’’ Hoare
was a witness and claims that everything was done properly. After the
ceremony Mr. and Mrs. Campbell left for
Cape Breton on a motor trip. Dr.
Campbell has taken a practice in Bear
River.
would like to have him back in th
scrim. |

On Tuesday afternoon, October 3rd,
the Alumnae Society of Dalhousie was
‘‘At Home” to the girls of the Univer
We wish him happiness but 
sity. Tea was served in the hall of the
new Arts building, and everyone welcomed the change from the cold, repelling Science Building, where formerly similar gatherings had been held, to
the warm, cheerful Arts Building. Mrs.
(Prof.) Murray and Mrs. (Prof.) MacNeil presided at the tea-table which was
prettily decorated with cut flowers. The
executive of the Alumnae was in charge
of the serving. Much of the success
of the afternoon was due to the gracious
cordiality of the President, Mrs. G.
Fred Pearson, who soon made the students feel at home and dispelled any possible atmosphere of formality. Mrs.
Pearson was assisted by a joint committee of the Y. W. C, A. and last year’s
graduates, who moved among the new
girls and made them acquainted with
one another. The tea was an auspicious
opening to the social life of the co-eds
of the college. M. M.

The new girls were given a royal
reception on Oct. 9th, when all the Dalhousie girls gathered at a bean supper
given by the 8. C. A. That lack of reserve which is characteristic of a crowd
of girls, when the opposite sex is absent,
was greatly in evidence, and everyone
ate ,talked and made all the noise they
could. So, you see, this affair was a
decided success.

After the excellent supper, a short
programme was given, the first number
being a humorous interpretation of
‘The Schooner Hesperus’’ by Misses
Sandford and Elliott, which brought
down the house. Miss Jean Shaw also
made a decided hit with her comic songs
and piano solos.

Just before the crowd broke up, Miss
Kuhn and Miss McLean, officers of the
girls’ branch of the S. C. A., gave short
talks on the aims and activities of that
most excellent society, asking the girls
for their support and _ co-operation.

After Dal. songs had been sung, the
college yell given, and cheers for the 8.
©. A., the girls dispersed ,all agreeing
that the evening had been most enjoyably spent. G. EH. M.

  
  

STUDENTS!

DON’T THROW
YOUR OLD SHOES AWAY
Remember our GOODYEAR WELT SYStem that made this store so ular in

Halifax. If you haven’t done so re, try
us now. It will be worth your while. ;

We will also renew your old hat so that
you will thank us for saving you the price
of a new one. :

THE SHOE HOSPITAL
428 Barrington Street

         
         
   
   

 

i tt ttn te tt tt ta _ one
— a NSS

Pine Hill Post
‘‘Nothing is new; we walk where
others went,’’

Pine Hill was officially opened when
Bill Jones, with Anticosti at his back,
and the whole world before him passed
beneath the Chestnut Tree, closely pursued by his sea chest. ‘

Close upon Bill came Geo. Smith
with his latest contribution to the ‘“Codex,’? and Perry Knox, fresh from a
year’s roughing it on the south shore,
ascended to the top floor, there with
‘*Pa’’ Creelman to make ‘‘Red’s Quorum’’ complete. After meeting all these
old friends, and with a triple handshake
and assurance of fine weather from
Morris Kirn, one feels once more quite
at home.

When finally all were gathered in it
was realized that rumors heard during
the summer were true: the Pine Hill
Tree had been culled and pruned until
the old trunk of about a half dozen of
the faithful was surrounded with all
new fruit.

Especially missed is that old friend
Walter McLean, the sole survivor of the
original ‘*Barber’s Union.’’ And time
would fail to tell of Dinty and Clay and
Blanchard and Bill Gunn and Leonard
Fraser, whose activities in different
spheres ‘brought much honor to Pine
Hill. Chisholm MeDonald’s opinions,
and variations of the latest Jazz will be
sorely missed. While Murchison, the
perfect gentleman, will never be replaced.

Although prone to look askance at
the new men they seem to be shaping
wonderfully. MeCurdy possesses great
dramatic ability and gave us a wonderful presentation of ‘‘Adam in the Garden.’’ Although rain prevented more
from attending we feel that the performance was quite a success.

Yarmouth County shows the extreme in length, while Lunenburg
County, the extreme in adiposity.
Seven of last year’s class of Pictou
Academy are present and no less than
twenty-five old students of that institution are in the residence. |

The meeting for the election of officers and the enunciation of the Dean’s
‘Fourteen points’? which makes the
‘‘Highteenth amendment’’ look like the
proverbial asbestos cat took place Thursday night. Larry McKenzie, the ‘‘Ole
war horse,’’ conducted the meeting most
acceptably. ‘Tass’? Lan
vested with the holy orders of Pope;
Don Webster assumed the scarlet robes
of Cardinal; the sacred duties of Bishop
are to be attended to by former Deacon
Sutherland and the Serolls and parchments were placed in the hands of Don
Clouston; Red Grant has been placed in
command of the P. T. squad and N. B.
McLeod of the crease in our trousers.

The contest for celestial representation was sharp and bitter, Guy Me
ce ees ee ee + oe

ith was in- |

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ee ee

Gregor almost challenged to a duel one
of his ‘best friends. Such are the acts of
Mammon. However, Huckvale was returned to office with a large majority.

The committe for determination of
eligibility for admittance to the ‘‘Training Table’? have had many extra sessions. Everyone in the residence being
in the running, excepting J. P. C.
Fraser, who gets his glass of milk anyway. To date no definite selections have
been made excepting Larry, the chairman of the committee, who has assumed
the position of ‘Pater Familias,’’ at
the head of the table.

In conclusion the scribe would appreciate the doings of any mystic societies,
or any family secrets. Any persons
having skeletons in their closets will
trot out same and deposit in the press
room. If he should unwittingly injure

‘any person or persons, they may choose

their own weapons . He thanks you.
SCRIBE.
Loud speakers are not confined to
radio amplifiers.

NOTICE!

The Freshie-Soph debate takes place
in the Munro Room on Thursday evening, October 19th. The subject is: ‘‘Resolved That. a Dirty, Good-Natured
Wife is Better Than a Clean, Badhumored one.’’ Freshmen argue on the
negative.

The Freshie-Soph dance is scheduled
to take place at the Auditorium on Friday, October 27th.

All subscriptions received after the
(iraduation Number for 1922 went to
press will be acknowledged in the next

issue.

UNIVERSITY
MEN’S RESIDENCE
There are still a few good
| rooms available for students.

| Rate $8.75 per week. Applicaiton oad be made immedi
1
. on 7

| ately to the Manager, Mr. W.
| Nisbet, or to any of the follow- |
| ing members 0

the Residence |
i Committees:
House Committee

| Residence Committee
J. E. Read, Chairman.
John Cameron, M.D., D.Se.
. A. Dawson, Ph. D.

LLL A E:T tl em a
a ee

 

oe vs

University Hall

University Hall is now commencing
its third year as a college residence.
To those who have been here from the
first, it seems like a very short time—
too short indeed. Nevertheless, how far
away the first year seems. Charlie MeKay and his house committee, Underwood and Henry at the piano—and do
you remember that night Jim and Ike
came home from the Law Banquet?
Them was the days.

Last year the novelty had worn off to
some extent, and for some reason tthe
Hall wasn’t up to full strength. Several
chaps roomed alone, and it seemed that
some were dropping out all through the
year. Anyhow, there is nearly a full
house now, and things look good for a
great year.

Dr. Cameron and Dr. Dawson are
still at the Hall. Perhaps this won’t
mean much to the new-comers, but before
many weeks have gone by, they will be
able to appreciate the presence of these
two gentlemen.

The fact that Mr. Nesbit is here
again causes the greatest satisfaction on
every hand. ‘‘Bill’’ is a real manager.

Some of the old crowd, however, have
gone. No longer can the boys stamp
when Prof. Sleggs comes in. The two
Acadia men, Read and Richardson, have
moved ‘to quarters nearer the college.
We miss Claude’s speeches, since we
were just getting acquainted with his
oratorical powers, which were seen to
such advantage in the trial of ‘The People vs. House and Halfyard.’’ Ted
Coster is rooming in the city; and
Poirier, our last year’s reporter, is
stationed at the Infirmary.

Among the graduates are Rod ‘Richardson, Donald Grant, Frank Rowe,
‘Skinny’? Reid, Dick Palmer and Duke
Purdy.

After a year’s absence from the Hall,
there have arrived back to our midst
Brent Haslam, ‘‘Mick’’ Dand and genial
Johnston Chew. Johnston spent last
year at Pinehill, and has brought several
of his chums over to stay with us this
year. Weare glad to have the men from
Pinehill, and the fact that they are Presbyterians will not be held against them.

And then of course, there are the
neweomers. To them we extend a hearty
welcome. In the case of some, the
Sophs were able to furnish a conerete
form of greeting. Perhaps it would be
more nearly correct to say that the
Sophs and one Freshie-Soph, performed
the noble work. Needless to say, someone saw that the young man in question
got his.

A week ago last Monday, we elected
our House Committee, and ‘their report
was unanimously adopted. The new
committee is the best that possibly could

(CONTINUED ON PAGE EIGHT)
his worth as a teacher, an

has been a decided gait |
merce Faculty i the University. The

 

| phominent, graduate of
was appointed Judge

4 e

A I

LECTURERS IN LAW
Judges Patterson and Wallace
Resign Their Positions,

Several changes have been made in
the personnel of the staff of the Law
School since last term. The school has
lost the services of two men who have
done excellent work through their
special knowledge and wide experience
in the subjects in which they lectured.
They are Judge Patterson and Judge
Wallace, the former up to this term
Lecturer in Hvidence, and the latter
Lecturer first in Crimes and later in
Torts.

Hon. George G. Patterson, M. A.,
LL. D., has lectured in Evidence at the

 

_ Law School since 1908 and his work in

this department has been most successful. His judicial duties have forced him
to resign from the post which he has so
admirably filled and thus Dalhousie has
lost the services of one of her most
prominent graduates, a man who not
only knew his subject thoroughly but
knew how to teach it. To say that he
will be missed is putting it mildly and
Dalhousie has been indeed fortunate in
obtaining the services of another distinguished graduate to take Judge Patterson’s place—Mr. Stewart Jenks,
K. ©.

‘Mr. Jenks has had many years experience in the work which he has under
taken and his successful career at the
Bar of this Province is well known. He
has an intimate knowledge of the Law of
Evidence and his appointment to the
Staff of the Law School augurs well for
its future. He needs no introduction to
the students of Dalhousie University.
Those who had the good fortune to hear
him when he lectured at the School on
the subject of the Law of Agency know
recognize
that the College has found a worthy successor to Judge Patterson. Pep

Although the Law School has lost
the services of Judge Wallace who so

ably lectured first, on Crimes and later

on Torts, yet what has been our loss
ain to the Coma brilliant and

this University,
of the County

Hon. W. B

 

     
   

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dental Extractions

The Dental Society met on Tuesday,
October 10, in-Room 29, Forrest Building. Arrangements are being made for
a series of monthly lectures on subjects
of interest to the Dental students. Various members of the Faculty will be asked to give these lectures and the first one
will, no doubt, be held during the present
month. The program for the year includes an evening of entertainment and
inspection of the Dental Infirmary, ete.
This function, inaugurated last year was
a big success and many from the other
faculties availed themselves of the opportunity of discovering the secrets of
the painless ‘profession.

Murray Logan who last year successfully managed the Dental Football squad
will again handle the team this year and
expects to have a strong fifteen for the
opener of the Interfaculty league.

With the introduction of the five year
Dental course this season Dalhousie advances again in standard and keeps
pace with the leading institutions on the
continent. ,

Lee Fluck of football and hockey
fame is back this year to graduate in the
spring. Others back into the fold are
“Mickey’’ Dand, C. T. Browne, ‘‘Vic”’
Turnbull and Stanford.

Mr. O. Gardner who for years has

been part time demonstrator has been

taken permanently on the staff as
technician.

Dr. ‘‘Jim’’ Lawley evidently finds it
hard to get away from football. Jim
has this fall formed and managed the

‘Glace Bay War Vets who are playing in

the Cape Breton League and are apparently giving Caledonia some competition
for the title.
According to a page in an evening
paper entitled ‘‘Personal Activities of
Women’, Mr. Vineent Clifford has returned to the city and is taking up third
year Dentistry. _ ae sj

}

. tne .

 

The world: is more interested now,

  

i i iS Bd A a

; Py

; ———— - M Wy

ae Vg aay A Te. 32> wa. aa | he ee i
‘A fe! ts hy a iG 4 f A 7 ss, A ee Te y Te * ‘i : &

+

#7

=

- J ae

Z, - ys
J

2 in

- iy

today, in what you do than in what you:

   
  
 

sem

 

LITERARY “D” STANDING

Miss Roberta M. Forbes......... “oe eae
W. G. Poirier....... “hep ee ia ewe 17,
So) ee, ics eek caeeneaeen 16
Bh, he CR i EO Re een 14
Co Se, a ei va et 14
Bey ae SN ie Oi a EPO aT 14
BS) © ar sil APE 10
Bes SNe. 56 OSS 9
PA COW i 6a Ces eae hee ee 8
i ei biccd oa) yah aewel 4
Miee BF .0; BEAGGOR. oc ccs cncetesss 4
SE, RC ae ale lay ae alte 4
Bee ae BS iss c bee RR ORR 3
a oe aaa wen 3
ee ae i ss oa he ae wale 3
ey SE a ha kc bis ace 3
Ue ce bk vais bleed dada 2
eee ee Ue ee ss cee a ee oe 3
SIGE ds PRONE, ci baka oan aeieaees 2
Ch: MRE de ico kad SARs CATS 2
Oe MRR a a V's bo hb tLe ME A EOE 2
Di, SN hs sick id san Leased 2
MiGs Bh. BROPAAY soo. che decdeanvepars 1
BPRS caked, O8eseies bea deen 1

AT THE MAJESTIC

This week the Players, under the
able direction of Mr. Wilmer Walter,
are producing ‘‘The Witching Hour.’’
The story is one of thrilling mystery
and absorbing love, and the play is one
that you will never forget.

The company is an excellent one—
the best the eity has had for a number
of years. All the members are artists,
and have been giving the Halifax people
splendid performances since the beginning of the season, This week’s
play is no exception—it is one of their
best productions. A number of new
faces appear in the cast.

Special mention should be made in
this our first number of the little leading lady in the any. She is Miss
Hazel Corinne. Although she has only
been in the city a few weeks,

’ Corinne has already endeared himself to
ity. Don’t fail to see

ek’s play. Crea
For the first two days of next week,
24th, the management of

  
  

thousands in th
her in this we

‘ *
*

    
 

   

 

   

a a
ty “ , ™
*~ . 5 ‘ on ee
f > . .
: ig ‘
. a faa ¢
7 ——, ‘

 

D. G. A. C. Meeting

Decision to Play Ground Hockey
This Term.

(tirls’ athleties at Dal. have never
covered a very wide range, and in past
years the D. G. A. A. has generally devoted itself chiefly to Basketball. This
year there is to be an innovation in the
form of ground hockey. At a meeting
of this society, it was decided to form a
committee to proceed with the arrangements to draw up a schedule. The committee is made up of a member from
each class: Misses EK. Crichton, M.
Mader, H. Garan and E. MeNeil.

Dalhousie Girls do not realize that
in many colleges physical training is
compulsory. Because they are not compelled to go in for games, a great many
of them do not think it necessary to support them. ‘This year the girls should
make an endeavor to support the D. G.
A, A. and turn out for practices. They
could also assure the boys of their moral
support at the foot-ball games by showing them that they know a Dal yell
exists.

We are to have the use of the tank
at the Y. M. C. A. This year it is available during the fall and winter months
on Wednesdays and. Fridays, from ten

 

 

to two o’clock. Girls may learn further

particulars from Miss M. Clark, President of the D. G. A. A.

Senior Class Party
Pleasant Evening Spent at Robertson’s Camp.

On Monday evening, October the
ninth the Class of Arts and Science 23
gathered en masse on the Dartmouth
Ferry Slip, pleasure bound.
weather daunted not our knights and
ladies gentle but all pressed merrily
along the wooded shores of the First
Lake to Robertson’s Camp. |

As ‘Admiral Bill’’ Jones was chief

mmittee man, we arrived to find all
gs ship-shape and the ‘enticing
-eorn and blazing pine

 
 
   
   

Inclement »

   
 

i, - cheery blaze on the *

     

7 > * i
‘ “ ;
;
:
* 7
P ' fd , HOU SIE | 1 GAZETTE

three hearty cheers Class '23 voiced
their appreciation. Taken all in all,
the Stately Seniors, though losing some
what of their dignity, ‘have acquired

something more worth while—a host of
pleasant memories.

CORNER STONE OF NEW
MEDICAL BUILDING

The Corner : Stone of the Medical

Science Laboratory Building was laid
by Dr. John Stewart, Dean of Faculty
of Medicine, on Sept. 29th. The service
was simple and impressive. Dr. Stewart
used the same trowel with which Lord
Dalhousie ‘laid the corner stone of the
first Dalhousie Building. The foundation sciences of Medicine Physiology,
Bio-Chemistry, Pharmacology and
Hygiene are to be taught in the building.
Pharmacy will also be housed here.
The corner stone is to the right of
the main college street entrance and
bears the following inscription:
This stone was laid by
John Stewart, M. B., C. M., L. L. D.,
C. B. EK.
Dean of Faculty of Medicine
1922

MT. A. IN TORONTO

TORONTO, Sept. 28.—The educational committee at the Methodist Confererice, received the application of the

Mount Allison University of Sackville

today, asking authority to.enter negotiations with the object of federating with
Dalhousie, Acadia, Kings and St. Franeis Universities under the Carnegie
Foundation Fund. It is understood

that the committee was favorable to the |

request.—Sackville Tribune. |

A GIF

Year Book.

suggestions.

   

Tell us how much you want to spend—we’ll make some

 

ER

Class ’24 Notes

The Juniors, Class ’24, held their
first meeting at noon on Thursday, Oct.
6th. The attendance was fair, the interest good, and the discussion of business
lively.

In point of numbers this class in their

. Sophomore year held a record for the

college, but this year tthe membership is
sadly depleted. From, more than one
hundred the attendance has fallen to
barely two-thirds of that number, but
the old time spirit is still alive.

Most of the business was purely of
class interest and need not be discussed
here. One item, however, may be mentioned: Mr. Brennan, president last
year, of Class ’24, U. N. B. met his death
this summer, under rather sad circumstances. He was employed on a timber
survey and a falling tree crushed him to
the ground, killing him instantly. A note
of sympathy from the Class has been
sent to the Juniors of U. N. B.

Jensen & Mills Co., Ltd
Changed from
Nielsen & Mills Co. Ltd.
TWO STORES
26 Spring Garden Road
119 Young Street :

GENERAL DRY GOODS
READY TO WEAR

VMILLINERY and CUSTOM TAILORING.
Correct Styles. Lowest Prices.

       
    
   
      
   
   
 

for the ‘‘somebody’’ you have in mind
will be pretty easy to find with such &
comprehensive assortment of things as is found in the Birk’s

     
  
 

We make School and Class Pins, and Fraternal Jewellery.
We also submit sketches on request, giving you an estimate of
~ . ost, before proceeding with the work.

WRITE FOR THE BIRKS YEAR BOOK

by: Hr 7 iff 1 TO Narpor |
it PO C UW VU,
he preted tence gegen &
4 le + + oa)

ea

ot
nyatty
ma
es
ae, Ge

& eee em ” aa
3 (ee n
"ed vi jj
aL ilar ,
ua Oe te
4 We ——_ <=

*
|

i ri i a 4
: | a . * P tr" 4 "
gk Sancti ecu ager eer ae
, . al r ,- i

ae . eI <5 se
} 1 — pete <r i
ivan ae

= ps ee

‘2 4
Pi “sf ’
Z ny “a. =e ~~
a " | a=. | ay ehh
if ; o = |
+ ‘ \ 3
m *, 1 4 eg 5 “ ail
* Ponts | 7 a eS j i

 

Ree ia TE ile mete Ea ; de
wai le. ala? bee » ee = y ay fe no LS :
r tie Le = 4 eS ey si fn a Li ee Gtr s ue he
70 2 pie’ i . AD a eS Pet eS bs a oi ae ¥ em e oe pie
es ‘ oo ve pe ae = A tae al ‘ a ity | + ="
hu Te Ae a eS Te Acta 7 Be ae i ae it,

Ata 2 bo. a :
; Bl, ty
, Bho

 

  
  
 

 

6 THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

PLAYERS

NAVY CUT

CIGARETTES

 

’ Real

Safisfaction”

F Per
NS ABS
;

rp
t | ,

iD

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 

 

Lr >

- ER rene —_—_—_—_—————

a

 

Eee

eae a

ee oe

a

ee re .
Rp poe”

ee a
wag’ ae J

a = ae

Ss
i ee

ey
-— *

a
eS 7 eck Se
i ne =e

eo aa

 

=
a a +

mT

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

WANDERERS

 

City League Rugby Opener
Sensational

Saturday afternoon’s program provided the 2000 spectators, who crowded
the new Studley stands, with thrills and
laughs galore.

Coming back strong with a wonderful rally in the last stages of the game
the Varsity fifteen played the Wanderers off their feet and, overcoming an
8—O lead, tied the score.

With just seven minutes to go, Langwith went over for the first Dal. try;
Coster following soon after with
another. When amidst breathless suspense Mont Haslam converted, tying the
score, the air vibrated with prolonged
Dalhousie cheers, and seemed fairly to
erackle with intensity and excitement.

The first try for the Wanderers came
near the end of the first period, and was
converted by Lilly, last year’s Law
graduate and Dal. captain, who is now
with the Red and Black. During this
period the Wanderers goal line was
often in danger, but judicious and superior kicking prevented Dal. from going over.

Larry McKenzie, Logan, Max MacOdrum, Bruce, ‘‘Red’’ Sutherland,
Baird, ‘‘Kelly’’ McLean, and Capt.
‘‘Dinty’? Moore, the Tiger scrim, with
the newly adopted 3—2—3 formation,
certainly worked beautifully, heeling
with machine-like precision, and pushing the rival scrim for a gain on all occasions. Aggressive following up by
“Dinty’’ and ‘‘Kelly’’ was particularly
noticeable and added a lot to the offensive power of the team.

Team work of the halves showed
great improvement over last year, Porter, for instance, attempting less individual stuff, but being far more effective
than ever before. Langwith was right
there with the kicking, and Ted Coster
showed class. He did some great tackling, providing a real classic right in
io of = a — ee mae

rum, though handicapped by a badly
wrenched a received right at the
start of the game, showed that he is right
there when it comes to a

The quarters, Bates ton,
were right on-the i and had to contend with continual offside play by op
home at fi Ib , @ ition
new to him. a half line is plainly his

aba 28 + 1 ; > t ;

mt) eee ee i}:

yy fs % an) 7

; Hy pne 68
. » “e" —— * Z

: li pag aki i 7 ce we aa 7 "

A 7 ES o a | = = ‘

oe he , :

  

   

was clearly not at
. which is

 

Attention Swimmers !

 

Dal needs you for her Swimming
Team. Practices will soon begin at the
Y. M. C. A. tank, when every man will be
given a chance to show his wares.

Manager Don. McInnes has announced
a meeting in the Munro Room, tomorrow,
Thursday, October 19, at 12 noon, to
arrange for practice hours and other
details.

Everybody out to help Dal win the
Swimming Championship this year.

 

the burlesque game between the Pine
Hill ‘‘Taggers’’ and the University
Hall ‘‘Blunderers’’, staged midst shot
and shell, and to the wild accompaniment of martial airs, between periods
of the big game.

Led by their band in killing kilts, and
with their Captain astride an ancient
ass, safe-led ‘by beardless youths, the
‘‘Taggers’’ were first on the field, their
rivals bouncing in soon after with ‘‘a la
Lizzie’. Then the fun commenced, and
equalled anything of like nature yet
produced by Upper Canadian or U. 8.
colleges. The boys deserve a great deal
of credit. They promise even better for
the next game at Studley.

Dalhousie’s cheering, led by Charlie
Beazley and the assistant leaders of the
Rooters’ Club, was a real feature highly commendable. Reports are that the
Engineers made the most noise, with the
lawyers a close second.

Policing of the grounds was very
efficiently carried out by the students
entrusted with the task.

With The D. A. A. C.

Enthusiasm, pep, and utmost loyalty
to Dalhousie’s long established tradi
  

Dalhousie Headquarters for
Sporting

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at our
store at 40 Sackville Street. We can
supply you with everything for Sport
Life. Also Pocket Knives, Razors,
Shaving Supplies.

We Stock Dalhousie Jerseys

ton & Thomson
4’ ‘ ’ a ' or :
bie ps beat 1 y ion + * ry ; } “yy rr Pi '

2.44 Ay see Low +r awe eS) i) ee J if :

i , bh a . : :

      
         
   

spring. This was adopted.

tions for good sportsmanship featured
the first meeting of the D. A. A. ©, for
the year held in the Munro room on
Wednesday evening, October 4.

After considerable discussion, a resolution that Dal. remain in ‘the Intereollegiate Football League received practically unanimous support and a recommendation to this effect was sent to the
University Advisory Committee.

There has been a certain amount of
dissatisfaction for years concerning the
question of the status of players under
the existing eligibility rules such as that
barring graduate students and players
of four years intercollegiate experience
from the intercollegiate team. The effect on teamwork. of having to change
the line-up of the regular Varsity City
League fifteen immediately before playing a game with one of the other colleges always means a big handicap. In
addition to this the playing of out of
town games invariably involves a financial loss.

A determination to uphold Dalhousié’s well earned reputation for playing the game for its own sake, and to
maintain the spirit of friendly competition with the other colleges, in spite of
inconvenience or sacrifice, tempered a
great majority of the speeches on the
question.

Ronald Forbes was appointed to help
Manager Charlie Baxter with the affairs
of the football team. Ron’s official position is that of Assistant Football Manager, a new one provided for by a recent amendment to the D. A. A. C. Constitution. |

Don McInnes was elected manager
of the new Swimming Team, and reported bright prospects of getting together a strong aggregation of swimmers to compete with other Maritime
clubs, such as Acadia or the local Y. M.
C. A.

With President Murray Britton,
(whose knowledge of the minutes was
amazing) in the chair, business was conducted without waste of ‘time, yet in a
decidedly humorous vein. Outstanding
flights of oratory by Archie Robertson
of pugilistic fame, and a few ‘‘timely’’
questions from Murray Logan, heightened the intellectual tone of the gathering,
or straightened out perplexing problems, as occasion demanded.

Norm. McKenzie read a report from
the Advisory Committee embodying
recommendations in reps to a questionaire submitted by the D. A. A. ©. last

    

  

, f
¥ at !
.

erat, Mane des

 

   
     
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

The Onion Skin

Read It and Weep.

‘‘How’s she going, Mr. Gallagher?’’
‘*Not bad, mind you, Mr. Shean.’’

LOST—A brown felt hat, in good
repair. Finder please return to Mr.
Ash Can.

Excited Soph (to stern senior law
student): ‘‘C’mon, let’s haze the freshman, everybody is going to help.’’

Last night they treated a soph real
rough.

Lawyer—(stroking a misplaced eye_ brow): ‘‘Really, how humiliating.”’

Kh. 8.: We’re going after them now,
are you coming, [ke?’’

Lawyer: ‘‘Yes, Yes, but let’s go down
to Mader’s and have a bite to eat first.’’

 

Rumor has it that the football team
is to be equipped from the stock of an
auction room on Barrington street. On
investigation the only basis of this
rumor was the fact that the manager,
accompanied by the assistant manager,
the captain and coach, was seen buying
a large supply of garters in that establishment one evening last week.

Registrar:—‘How did it happen
that you did not write the Property 1
paper, Mr. Fl—m—ng?”’

J. F.:—‘‘I was indisposed.”

‘‘ Ow is your health today, Mr.

’Arrison?:an acquaintance greeted Har-_

rison who had a liver that particular

morning.

‘‘My name is not ’Arrison,’”’ he

snapped.

‘Well,’’ said the other, ‘‘if a haitch,
a hay, two hars, a hi, a hes, a ho, an’ a
hen don’t spell ’Arrison then what on
hearth do they spell?’

Hot Toddy
Who was the Dalhousie professor
who presented a prescription at the
office of the Nova Scotia Underwriters

 

i _ which happens to be next door to the

—

Ast 00-24 ‘What
ypose to wear to the FreshieOey by opot? deci

&
+ Fe iv , 4
oo?
“
Fae ;
p-@

 

UNIVERSITY HALL
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE THREE)

have been elected. Dinty Moore, a man
experienced in residence life, is the only
member new to the Hall. With him are
**Lauchy’’ MacPherson from the Dominion of Newfoundland, Henry DeWolfe, of piano fame, Eric Jerrett, the
brains of the group, and Ronald Forbes.
It is understood that Mr. Forbes will
take a special interest in our social welfare as he won his ‘‘M’’ and ‘‘A’’ several years ago and performs in a Regal
manner at the dances.

The boys have now settled down to
the regular college routine. The wise
birds are getting at their studies already.
Billiards is evidently going to be as
popular this year as formerly. The attentive ear may catch the call of ‘forty
love’’ from the tennis court, or the muttered sigh ‘‘No, I can’t open it” from—

It certainly looks like a good year.

NOTICE !

All contributions to the Gazette
should be handed to one of the editors
or dropped in the boxes for that purpose which are located in the MacDonald. Library and the Forrest buildings.
The box at Studley is situated at the
foot of the main stairway of the library
building, and in the Forrest building it
will be found in the corridor near the
main entrance.

Note also that contributions should
be written preferably in ink and positively on one side of the paper only.

The manager of the football team
requests that the executives of the
various college societies call their meetings at times that do not interfere with
the regular football and general rooting
practices. Co-operation in this matter
willbe appreciated.

New students—Be sure that you
patronize the advertisers in the Gazette,

EDITORIAL
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE)

lence attained by our predecessors. This

 

will be only possible if every student

in the universi

   

takes ae tees

    
 

>,

A. & W. MacKinlay

LIMITED

PUBLISHERS, STATIONERS
AND MANUFACTURERS OF
LOOSE LEAF OUTFITS.

—

Depot for Swan Fountain Pens

College Paper Stamped from Die.
135-137 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED ———————
453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
123 YOUNG STREET

HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S’ FURNISHINGS

HENRY B. .COLWEIAL cssiiesteceascssavabics Presidént

GARNET. J. COLWELL. ..c.sccccccessess Vice-President
re | Fa Re i anne herded ceded veaieaipewda Director
CYRIL H. COLWELL.... dsiiscccee Secretary-Treasurer

BOB JOHNSON’S
BARBER SHOP

‘ENJOY A SHOWER BATH
OR TUB.

SHOE SHINE PARLOR.

LADIES’ SHAMPOO. PARLOR —

  
  
   
 

 

eae eke pp
» V

ee sae
