THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 4

 

—_—

 

 

.*

ee SSeS

THE FACULTIES ARE DOING

—— seen nnn Renee eeeenenenenettineemeemneeennnmenenetinenmmmmmmmnetnmmmeemmmenenemneette ees eee ee

 

 

UNIVERSITY HALL

Strong and furious was the language
used over the Arena management last
week. The latest stunt of the apostle of
Prussianism in our midst was to cancel
the usual skating session leaving no
chance to warn the student body. The
‘“water on the ice’’ bluff did not go far
considering the hockey practice held
there that night. The. ‘‘water on the
brain’’ management have apparently
shot their last ball as far as the Dal.
Skating Club is concerned. Some of
our lawyer friends have at last realized
we can get decent treatment and cheaper
prices at the South End Rink—no negotiations are under way to have the rest
of the skating sessions there. A rink
in Halifax run under Union rules is
on needed.

he dance was staged Tuesday evening, Jan. 3lst,—under the able guidance
of that Tex. Richard of the dance hall—
Mr. Chas. Baxter. To say it was an enjoyable affair is putting it mildly. All
the jazz artists were much in prominence—including Mr. I. 8. Pidgeon, who
came up from the Southern Seas especially for the occasion. Mr. Edwin Cameron distinguished himself in the decorating line—the feature being ‘‘UNIVERSITY HALL’’ spelled with college banners. Mrs. Bagnell and Mrs.
Stewart were the chaperones and Dr.
Cameron, Profs. Dawson and Dawso
represented the Faculty. Notable

artists on the floor were HoraceMeed

and L. McPherson. They both appeared
to be in too much of a hury to dance.
Many, who were not on the subscription
list, voted the refreshments excellent.
The orchestra also’ had a good time,

The hockey game between Pine Hill
and Birchdale was played on Thursday,
Feb. 2nd, at the South End Rink.

We are very sorry to announce that
Henry DeWolfe has a very bad grouth
—the grouch being due to a severe cold.
Henry would not mind the cold so much
only it interferes with his duties of
cheer leader in the dining room.

The final rounds of the billiard tournament are providing much excitement.
We expected to be able to announce the
winner this week but the guilty party
will not be exposed for another week.
Dexter, Zinck, Campbell, Duchemin and
Marshall are still in the running. Wm.
Marshall defeated Dr. Dawson last Monday. The taleum powder likely had

something to do with it. The ‘‘producer’’ of every can has always been de
 
   

.
1 ss a r " 5
rr. ft BF Oru .
ay i “, er :
a) Pe eae
, LY a ; _ ~~ t
e¢ _ 7 7% , : i A
* - ae 4 f TF
tt. . ' Fe Ft” a)
re ii

feated.. Ask ‘‘Spud’’ Ellis. DeWolfe —
finally stopped making flukes

Our guess last week of the winner was
so wide of the mark it won’t be safe to
try this week, for the tournament will
be finished by the time this is in print.
One of the Senior ‘‘Meds’’ has applied for the position of ship’s doctor
on the members of the Canadian Merchant Marine—at present in winter
quarters in the North West Arm.

WORK THIS ONE.

If it takes a three year old woodpecker with a rubber bill, three years
and seventeen days to peck a hole in a
cypress log large enough to make 175
bundles of shingles at $1.45 per bundle,
how long will it take a cross-eyed
grass-hopper with a wooden leg to kick
all the seeds out of a dile-pickle?

THE “SCRIBE”’.

PINE HILL

What happened to the Pine Hill
items for last week’s issue remains a
mystery. Of course, when they were
signed, sealed and delivered, the reporter’s responsibility ended. It has
often been said that all things work for
the best. This was true last week, for
by the omission of the Pine Hill notes,
articles of greater value were given a
place.

La Grippe, or ‘‘The Flu’’, as it is
now called, has been giving some of the
boys an enforced holiday. Huckvale
and Len Fraser have been ill for some
time. Quite a number were indisposed
for a day or two. 3

On Friday night the regular bean
supper gave place to a farewell banquet
for Dr. Foote, who returns to his work
in Korea. Several honored guests were
present. After the repast there were
short and interesting speeches.

About one a.m. Saturday, Larry and .

puny aroused some of the inmates

their leaden slumbers, and compelled them to join the birthday feast
giveh for one, ‘‘Tass’’ Langwith. The
excellent ‘‘eats’’.in the hamper from
home were augmented by lemon pie,
jam, ete., from other sources. After the

jam, ,
feed and toasts, the compan sang (?
“Hor he’s a sued te ow’? an
“Auld Lang Syne’’. After this, the
retired. Some, who had eaten too mu
ancient en spent a rather sleep
One from among us, who has a

Morris street, ‘‘when I worked with the
ice company five years ago, I used to
know every maid that worked there. I
don’t suppose I know one of them now.”’
Our hero hastened to agree with him.

N. A. M. MacKenzie, who collided
with an interfacial angle of one of the
south end rink’s pillars, has regained
his benign expression.

Great preparations are being made
for the. big annual event, the Pine Hill
‘‘at home’’. The festivity is scheduled
to take place on St. Valentine’s eve
(Feb. 13th). The committee are planning for a bigger crowd than last year.
That means it’s going to be a huge
success. L. A. M.

MARLBORO NOTE

Perhaps it is well that the cold
weather came as it did, for we are able
to experience the delightful sensation
of having fires in all the grates which
at any other time are of no service, the
coal being dealt out in such generous
(?) quantities.

We offer humble apologies to any of

our guests at the dance, who may feel.

hurt at the personal remarks made about
them. They were meant to be purely
humorous, no offense being aimed at.

— THE —

YOUNG MAN'S STORE

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

Barrington Street

W. F. PA Cor. George St.

HALIFAX, N, 8.

 

       
 

Your Education

is not complete if confined to printed
books and lectures. Visiting the interesting and popular places in
every city helps a lot.

       
       
   
 
 
 
  

 

We know of no place more popular
or interesting in Halifax than

 

  

PHARMACY PHUN
(With apologies to “Longfellow”)

Back again at old Dalhousie,

We are at it worse than ever.

Ait it with but one ambiltion

Since we’ve come back from vacation,
Since we hopped off at th’ station.
We’ve been mixin’ like tarnation:,
Mixin’ drugs we never thought of,
Mixin’ till our arms are achin’,

Till our shoulder blades are breakin’,
Till we stop and rest a second,
Thinkin’ we’ve been awful busy
Thinkin’ p’raps th’ rush is over,
But we find that we’re mistaken

And we've got to start another
Mixture that’s as tough as Tophet.
Mornin’, night and noon we're rollin’
Pills in Taleum anid Kaolin,

Rollin’ till we get ’em polished.
Roillin’ till we simply cannot

Roll another gorramm’d dozen.

When we’ve finished every blessed
Thing that’s in th’ Squires’ Companion
Every mixture, every tincture.
Every syrup, salve, decoction,

Every pill and mustard plaster,
And we're certain our professor
Cannot find another lotion

Cannot pick a dang prescription,
That we hav’nt done already,

And we're hopin’ that we'll hafita’
Spend th’ afternoon a-skatin’

With th’ fair ones, or play hockey.

=

ao ’ fh
— ane Ye /
“4 eS fy

——
: | \ ,

 

first spoke of Nova Scotia’s exportation
of raw materials, stating that this trade
is very large indeed, most of the province’s exports are of this class. He
pointed out that Nova Seotia should not
export so many raw or _ half-finishe
products, but should process them within ‘her own territory. This would build
up industry in the province and greatly
increase its population. .

Mr. Silver also defined and briefly
outlined the different methods of exporting goods to foreign countries, insisting on the fact that the exporter’s
goods should be sold before they pass
from his control. He dwelt on the importance of the correctness and neatness which should characterize bills of
lading and such instruments, and on
the necessity of promptness in the shipment of goods.

In concluding Mr. Silver pointed
out that the Commerce students of this
University were the coming business
men on whom the province built its
hopes, and therefore they should earnestly endeavor, when they actually were
Nova Scotia’s business men, to promote
the exportation of finished products instead of raw materials, to be accurate
and attentive to matters of form, and,
in general, to improve business methods.

An informal meeting of the Commerce society was held after Mr. Silver’s address, at which it was decided
to organize a Commerce hockey team.
Mr. Chipman was voted captain and
manager. It was also decided to carry
out Professor Hunt’s idea of establishing society archives, and a committee
was appointed for this purpose, consisting of Miss’ M. Hoben, Miss J. O’Connor and Mr. A. W. Shaw. The society’s
second social function was arranged for,
which, after much discussion, took the
form of a skating party to be held Monday, February 6th. e details of the
party were all left to the discretion of
the able social committee, which body
made such a success of the society’s
theatre party.

JUANITA O’CONNOR.

HEARD HERE AND THERE

In Phil I1T:—

A human being is one who knows
what to eat, drink and avoid—with special stress on the drink.’’

In Eng. V:— ~—s 4

‘“We have had enough of action and

of motion we, .
2 ‘Roll’d to starboard, roll’d to lar- Voice—‘Must of been in the good

.

   

RELATIVITY !

Scene: Room 20. Physics lecture.

Subject—Relative Humidity of the
Air.

Prof.—‘Perhaps some of you have
noticed the air in here dry at times.’’

Stamping and murmur of assent.

Prof. (after a slight pause)—‘‘ What
causes the dryness?’’

Voice from the rear—‘‘Hot air.’’

ALLEN’S

THE LEADING BOOKSTORE

— ED

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
Books. Engineers’ Supplies of
all kinds.

Commercial and Society Stationery.

—Waterman’s Fountain Pens—

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

 

 

 

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N.S.

 

SERVICE

COAL

WE HANDLE ONLY THE
HIGHEST GRADES OF

Hard and Soft Coals

and Petroleum Coke

 

 

 

S. CUNARD & CO.

Phone Exchange: Sackville 2500

 

FALL AND WINTER.
SUITS and OVERCOATS
TO MEASURE
Now is the best time to order your
SUIT or COAT. Fine display of

Imported and Domestic Suitings
and Overcoating — Blacks, Blues,

Fancy Worsted Tweed.
SONS

   

CLAYTON &

JACOB STREET
 

4

THE DELTA GAMMA DANCE.

During the past two or three weeks
the general topic of conversation has
been the Delta Gamma Dance, which is
to be held in the new gymnasium at
Studley on the evening of Friday, Feb.
10th. About one hundred and fifty invitations have been issued, thus assuring an attendance of three hundred persons. Nothing has been overlooked or
left undone by the young ladies acting
on the Committee on Arrangements under the leadership of Miss Jean Fraser
to make this gathering one of the best
in the social activities of the University
this year. The orchestra is to be the
best in the city; the refreshments are to
be the choicest procurable; the chaperones, Mrs. H. L. Stewart, Mrs. Arechibald MacMechan and Mrs. G. Fred
Pearson, are universal favourites.
Daneing is to continue from eight to
twelve-thirty o’clock. M. M.

NOTES OF THE LAW SCHOOL

To celebrate the hockey victory
which they expect to win in the InterFaculty League this winter, Dalhousie
Law students were preparing for a big
banquet, which used to be an annual
affair before the war. A committee
named to carry out the preliminary arrangements reported, however, that the
cost of things had not yet gone sufficiently to put on pre-war banquets except at
war prices. So the committee resigned.
But the third year students intend to
stage a function of their own, which
those of other years may also attend,
and at which it is expected all members
of the faculty and the Supreme Court
judges will be present. The tentative
date is Feb. 16.

Some kind of banquet would have
been staged before Christmas, but the
Law footballers did not win as expected
—by Law. They may not win at
hockey, either, of course, but we’ll have
a banquet anyway.

Funny some dances and other functions could not be wedged in some other
evenings than those which, for example,
Dalhousie hockey matches have already
been, arranged. What’s that we heard
some time ago about college spirit?

‘University students use the street
ears some times—but not so very often.
They might use them oftener if there
were any cars running at regular intervals. Pretty hard to figure out why
those Belt Line cars run in bunches—

none for 10 or 15 minutes and then three

 

tween bands.

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Halifax seems to be the only place in
Canada where patrons of ice (?) rinks
are compelled to change direction beThat gag about hurting
the ice isn’t very potent—they have
better ice on rinks where they skate
only to the left the natural way.

What’s the matter with the jewellers
of Halifax? Must be something wrong,

or else either the Law School lecturers

or students never visit the jewellers.
Anyway, the lecturers’ watches are invariably a few minutes ahead of those
of a large number of the students, especially about 9 a.m., on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays
and Saturdays. |

ON NEWSPAPER READING.

In a recent issue of Punch, there appeared an article on American newspapers, which applies cqually well to
our Canadian papers. The article commenced by asking the question, ‘‘ What
does an Englishman think of American
newspapers’’? The answer was, ‘‘They
do not let the reader think for himself.’’
Here we have the Englishman’s chief
criticism of our papers. How does it
happen that he has formed such an
opinion? His reply is that our headlines
do away with all necessity for thought.

“If you pick up a copy of the London
Times, you will find that it does not resemble our Canadian papers. The
pages have a uniform appearance.
Nothing catches your eye at the first
glance. In order to find the news, you
must carefully go over the paper; and if
you wish to learn about any particular
event, you must read the whole article;
for there is no headline that contains
the gist of the news. }

This is the chief difference between

nglish‘and American newspapers. The
glishman must read his paper in
order to obtain the news, while the ordinary Canadian merely glances over
the headlines, and throws his paper
aside. Of course there are some Canadians who read the paper carefully, but
the vast majority take their news already digested. In other words, they
allow some one else to think for them.

This system of the headline has been
developed into an art by newspaper
men. Apparently the idea is to get a
phrase which is startling, that is, one
that the memory will retain. In order

‘to do this, catch words are used. In fact

words are often used out of their proper meaning. In time these words come
to acquire an entirely different meaning
from the original. It is by this means
that we ee is commonly called
It must be admitted that our newsstance of a column into one

only of a temp

  
 

é

  

It would be better for us if the headlines were more in the nature of a title,
than a synopsis. Then the reader would
look at the title, and after reading the
article he could form his own mental
synopsis. In this way we would be
forced to think, a thing that so few

(CONTINUED ON PAGE FIVE)

YOUR DRUGGISTS

MacLEOD, BALCO

SRR = NNN
SOUTH END PHARMACY
E. M. MacLEOD

34 Morris Street. Tel. Sack. 245
QUALITY SERVICE

————$—$

~ WEST END PHARMACY

5S. R. BALCOM

Corner Spring Garden Road. and Robie St.
Telephone Sackville 314

NORTH END PHARMACY
F. 8. CHITTICK
West Young Street. Hydrostone District
Telephone L-1884

Line of Toilet Articles
Perfumes and Family
Remedies

Every man’s Education should
contribute to his welfare, comfort and enjoyment, and hence
NO MAN’S EDUCATION is
‘complete without a practical
knowledge of the Nadruco Line
as above.

- National Perfumes ,are exquisite, novel and lasting. Are
made from the most rare
pure ingredients, by men of
many years’ experience. They
are unexcelled by any other’
makes, whether Domestic or
Imported.

National Toilet

Natineh Sate aride, e
ective, an
fully Dressed.

|
Nadruco Family Remedies are ae

expert chemists from formulae that, have |
your

been tested for years and

give you on or
money
. ae these
nes as

BO Nau
The forte are MADE IN
CANADA, and are a Credit to
Canada.

 

 
  
 
 

A

  

J
*

 

     
   

4 ae! a ee ‘ ; = O64
< « + ya We

= : ad *” ¥ e / . . , ide a an

tes Gy a: NWQ Pa
= on lg 3 - ¥ a
pos hoe ' =

A = Fi ( ‘«* is | i

ao i i ‘i » == * Jus . el j , 2

BP Va Se ee af je a Or Vera ¥ 2

4 aa Bede ee Sey 4

 

—_———$

LA INFAMIA DE LOS LABIOS

About a year ago a very excellent
article on kissing appeared in a Mexican journal, ‘‘La Revista’’. The subject naturally cried out for translation
into English, because kissing, for all
one hears of it, has not yet attracted the
English scientists and literati, as he
the other phenomena of love, especially
divorce. The strength of the article
lies in the fact that the author, pioneering bravely, has gone beyond a sentimental and, trivial view of the subject,
vivisected, and so the result is worthy
the consideration of every thoughtful
student.

The learned writer found. it-impos
sible to explain why the pernicious,
above mentioned art attained to its
present popularity. The Japanese, a
very substantial and _ affectionate
people, are averse to kissing. Nor is it
in vogue among the Moslems or
Chinese. Two Frenchmen, when they
meet, kiss one another on both cheeks.
In England such a scene would cause a
scandal. In Halifax the police, (if they
were awake) would have charged the
offenders with drawn revolvers.

Yet it is not so much the development of the act as the supposed charm
that lies in practicing the art that puzzled the Mexican most. Mere politeness
has often forced him to kiss, but did he
get the pleasure out of it that poets and
authors of musical librettos claim to
have received? The writer is inclined
to think the exact opposite. He says:

‘‘The physical sensation, far from
being pleasant, is intensely uncomfortable—the suspension of respiration, indeed, quickly resolves itself into a feeling of suffocation—and the posture necessitated by the approximation of lips
and lips is unfailingly a constrained and
ungraceful one. Theoretically a man
kisses a woman perpendicularly, with
their eyes, those ‘windows of the soul’
synchronizing exactly. But actually, on
account of the formation of the
nasal cartilages, he has to incline either
his or her head to an angle of at least
60 degrees, and the t is that his
right eye gazes insanely at the space
between her eyebrows, while his left
eye is fixed upon some vague spot behind her. An instantaneous photograph
of such a manoeuvre, taken at the moment of incidence would probably turn
the stomach of even the most romantic
man, and force him in sheer self et
to renounce kissing as he renounced leap
frog and walking{ om stilts.”’

‘But the most em ‘ing moment,

in kissing, does not come during the acoa kiss (for at that time the sensation

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

_there stands the fair one, obviously

waiting. Is one to thank her? Certainly that would be too transparent a
piece of hypocrisy, too flaccid a brutality. Is one to tell her that one loves
her? Obviously there are dangers in
such assurances, and besides one usually doesn’t add a lie to a lie. Or is
one to descend to chatty commonplaces
—about the weather, literature, politics?
‘‘The practical impossibility of solving the problem leads almost inevitably
to a blunder far worse than any merely
verbal one: one kisses her again, and
then again, and so on. The ultimate
result is satiety, repugnance, disgust,
even the girl herself gets enough.’’
Think it over! DULZAINA.

ON NEWSPAPER READING.
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE FOUR)

people will do of their own accord.

The Dalhousie Gazette is a notable
example of the English style of publieation. Here the headliné consists of a
title, rather than a synopsis.

Apparently the only place in which
our newspapers follow the English plan,
is in the editorial columns. Here the
seeker after knowledge must read the
complete article. As a matter of fact,
the people who are headline readers,
hardly know there is such a thing as an
editorial section in the paper.

The system of the glaring headline
is an American innovation, and we will
probably never be rid of it. The newspaper men doubtless have many arguments to support this style of publication; but from the reader’s standpoint,
the Englishman’s argument should have

greater weight. The newspaper is one

of our greatest sources of education.
Education is the development of the
mind. Now how can we possibly hope
to educate ourselves through this medium, if we refuse to think, which is the
only way to develop the mind, __
‘““CRER.’’

NOTICE

We regret very much that owing to
the material for the Library number of
this paper not being in the hands of the
staff on time we are compelled to postpone that issue until next week.

All Reporters Associate Editors
plase take notice that no residence or
Faculty news will be printed in next
weeks’ Gazette, due to the fact that it
is a special number.

 

ENGINEERING NOTE.

k. A very interesting lecture was given
Capt. Laing in Chemistry c
‘hes on Friday, the 20th, before a small

but very attentive audience. Th
ject was ‘British and

 

NOVA SCOTIA NURSERY

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
PHONE LORNE 53

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

 

FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY,

. Footwear for all times and seasons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store to Dalhousie

THE SPRING GARDEN
SHOE STORE

W. FENTON, Manager.
25 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

5% Discount to All Students |

Bob Johnson’s
BARBER SHOP

a a eee

hae! ENJOY A SHOWER
BATH OR TUB

SHOE SHINE PARLOR
LADIES’ SHAMPOO PARLOR
in connection.

Ladies’ and Gents’ Manicuring

MAJESTIC THEATRE

Op a

ART PHOTOGRAPHER
501 BARRINGTON STREET

 

   
    
       
       

See our New Styles in
College Photographs.
Special Prices to All Students.
Phone Sackville 1395 for Appointment.

     
   

 
 

THE D. G. A. C.

The Athletic Club has held its practices each week since the holiday season,
on Thursday evenings at H. L. C. Gym;
altho it was anticipated that they should
be held in the new gym, at the opening
of the New Year. However, against the
difficulties they are finding some very”
promising material and have twelve girls
trying out for the team, which was
picked the last of January . The league
games are scheduled with Kings and
Acadia for the first week in March in
the new gym, and the girls hope there
will be a good turn out at the games and
hearty support given them by both girls
and boys of the college. "as

ON SEEING MY CANOE STORED
FOR THE WINTER

No longer dost thou dance and toss
Upon the sunlit waves;

Nor crush the dainty colored shells
Thrown up from ocean’s caves.

While winter winds drive round about,
Snug in thy berth thou resteth.

The drifting snow thee cannot harm;
No tempest thee molesteth.

Short months ago thou oft wast
launched
Upon the swelling tide.
And while a band soft music played
Did’st in the moonlight glide.

On many a picnic didst thou go
When the sun shone warm and bright.

Far down the Arm to Purcell’s Cove
Returning late at night.

Now rolled up in a canvas sheet
Thou art snugly tucked away,
Thus slumber on, all undisturbed
Till the twenty-fourth of May.

An Englishman of considerable renown had just landed in New York when
he was accosted by an Irish-American
and the following conversation took
place.

Pat :—‘‘And what’s your name?’’

‘‘Lord , Knight of the Order
of the Round Table, Knight of the Garter, Knight of the Bath. What’s
yours?”’

‘'Patrick Maloney, Tonight, Tomor
 

row hight, The Night Before Yesterday’’

and the Knight after Tomorrow,’’ the

other replied triumphantly.
Acknowledgments

The Gazette wishes to acknowledge
receipt of subscriptions from the following: Miss Jean Dunlop, Dr. C. Mac
Kinnon, Rev. W. P. Grant, Messrs. A.
K. MeLean, Jas. A. McLean, Melville

    
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

RE BOBBIE BURNS

Proceeding along one of our principal
throughfares one Saturday morning
quite recently, I saw a number of young
‘‘men’’ gathered about the ‘‘notorious’’ statue of Scotland’s National poet.
At first glance I thought nothing of it
but on looking a second time I noticed
that there was considerable activity prevailing among the group. Some of its
members were standing in a pensive
mood gazing at the statue; others were
endeavoring to sketch the monument;
while still others were apparently endeavouring to become better acquainted with ‘‘bonnie Bobbie’’ by sealing the
granite base to sit at his feet.

In amazement, I asked my friend,
who by the way is as one of our ‘‘verdants’’ what was the cause of the excitement. ‘‘Alas,’’ said he, sadly, ‘‘they
have to write a theme on that monument and are getting their dope. I got
mine last night, before I went to the
Marlborough.’’ Then I was satisfied
that our public monuments are evidently
doing some good by giving some knowledge to some of our verdant freshmen.

O. B. SERVER

TO THE MARLBOROUGH.
In vain we wait without your portals,
Which ne’er are opened wide,
And freeze -and cry and swear and sigh
And long to be inside. B.

PHARMACY NOTE.

' Aside from the vital question of
Hockey the Class is puzzling over what
our Prof. said in a recent lecture on the
‘‘Medulla Oblongata.’?’ He was describing the different methods of
dispatching criminals into kingdom come
and said, ‘‘In the great republic to the
south of us, the electric chair is used,
but the good old English method of hanging is good enough for us,’’ also, ‘‘if a
would-be suicide knew more about Physiology he could put an end to himself
more quickly by shooting at the back
of his mouth and destroying the Medulla.
This information is gratis and may be
useful to you when examination time
comes around.’’ We see our finish.

“A B”

OVER ’OME
A great game of cricket was in progress. The captain of one team
riedly approached his-best batter, whom
he found rather the worse for wear, and

‘asked him to take his turn at bat.

‘‘Really, old dear,’’ said the star
‘‘T’ve been taki
soda that I’m afraid I shall see three
balls, instead of one, and foozle.”? _
‘‘Never mind,’’ replied the
ee en |

so much Scotch and

on the second ball bowled to him, he
swung wildly and missed and was out.
‘‘Pshaw,’’ shouted the captain, ‘‘ why
didn’t you do as I told you, why didn’t
you aim at the centre ball?’’
‘‘T did, old thing,’’ replied the star,
‘‘but in a moment of foolishness I hit

at it with one of my outside bats.’’

Colwell Brothers

LIMITED

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
123 YOUNG STREET

CC LL LLL LLL,
lll RR LLL LLL LAL LLL LLL

HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

WENRY S. COLWELL ccccccccsccscscsesccvcs President
GARNET J. COLWELL, ..cccssccscccces Vice-President
RAY J. COLWELL ccccscccsccscccscscccccccecs Director
CYRIL H. COLWELL ......sesseeess Secretary-Treasurer

 

Your Future?

 

Some day, perhaps to-morrow, you will need money.
If you.have not saved what
will you do?

If you have been wise and
have saved the future will
not worry you.

The easiest, quickest and
most satisfactory way to
obtain money is to save it.
Save from your allowance
now, make regular deposits
in the Bank and financing
your needs will be the least
of your worries later on in
— life.

THE
ROYAL BANK
OF CANADA

 
 

    
 

7 AY
Y ¥ ae “— 7.
” ye ir f std
| é { " = om
' . = ‘ ‘
. ‘ "Filed shes ” =
7 lA aa
f *

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 
   

SENIOR, 6-1; INTERMEDIATE, 5-3.

Art Lilly had his innings at the local
ice factory last Friday night when the
Dalhousie ‘‘Tigers’’ staged a comeback
and defeated the athletes of the Kastern
OCapital—Dartmouth by the rather one
sided seore of 6 to 1. The game, however, for the first two periods was not
onesided, and the FEW Dalhousie supporters were treated to as many thrills
as have been staged during the present
season.

Despite the weather the ice at the
start of the game was in fairly good
condition and altho most of the Dartmouth fans used this as a standard
alibi, at the end of the game, they said
very little about it at the end of the first
period when the score stood 1 to 0 for
Dartmouth.

Odds favored Dartmouth at the
start. From the face off, however, Dal
forced the pace, and the few Dal rooters
present got a chance to cheer, when the
newest recruit to the senior squad, Allen Dunlop, nearly scored on a run down
the side. About half way thru the
period George Dunn scooped one in for
Dartmouth from a mix up in front of
the net.

Less than a minute after the start
of the second period Fabie Bates batted
in a freak one from almost behind the
net. From now on the Dal team bombarded the Dartmouth goaler, who made
many fine saves. The ‘‘Duke’’ was also
working in his usual brilliant fashion
and went half way up the rink to stop
one on one occasion. Not many of the
Blue and White were able to penetrate
the Lilly-Dunlop defense, however,
while the forwards were back-checking
in great style and marking the two
Dartmouth stars George Dunn and Hallisey in fine fashion. Before the end of
the period Dal scored twice, once when
Art Lilly pulled off one of his hair raising rushes and went right thru for a
score, and the other time when the generous Tommy Horsler passed to Bates
in front of the net.

Three more were added in the third.
Twice Lilly went right thru the Dartmouth defence and placed the rubber
behind Guinon, and shortly before the
end Horsler scooped in a loose one from

in front of the goal.
ies a Friday nieht looked

‘xe a championship outfit, Every man

; c
- iN *
Tt 7 TT
wy 4 ate Lae

a : t J . : C iz n si Fs 7 i % ‘
. , | a i
a ;  —Ssx PERL
es Sad ge <5 pe ge ea
¥ 5 y " +

passing game. Bates was on the puck
all evening and altho he was hurt twice
during the contest played nearly the
whole game. MacKenna and Bricky
Dunn were two of the fastest men on
the ice, the former playing his position
to perfection, while the aggressiveness
and back checking of the ‘‘Strawberry
Blonde’’ (a la J. W.) was particularly
noticeable. It was the defence, however, that tickled Dalhousians most. The
great blocking of Lilly and Dunlop, and
the effective rushes of the former provided the major thrills of the evening.
And behind them, working as hard as
ever, and smiling as usual, was the great
Captain ‘‘Duke’’ Maclsaac. Even Dartmouth’s royal rooter, ‘‘Jimmy’’ Smith,
admitted that ‘‘Duke and his boys
were good scouts.’’. They played clean
hockey and there was little call for the
questionable hissing of some of the
Dartmouth so-called ‘‘fans’’.

The intermediate Tigers completed
the evening’s entertainment for the real
Dal fans when they came up from behind in the last period, scored three
goals in five minutes and won from the
Dartmouth Cubs, 5 to 3.

Dalhousie has still two hard games
to play in the City League against the
Crescents on Tuesday the 7th, and the
Wanderers a week later on Tuesday

the 14th. It is hoped that every Dal- |

housian will be out to help their team
win on both occasions. . The line up for
last week’s games was as follows:—
Seniors — Goal, ‘‘Duke’’ MelIsaac
(Capt.); defence, Allan Dunlop and
Art Lilly; centre, Fabie Bates; wings,
Bricky Dunn and Roe MacKenna; subs,
Tom Horsler, G. K. Smith and Parker
Hickey. — |
Intermediates—Goal, Lougheed (Captain); defence, Somers and Zinck; centre, McInnis; wings, Jerrett and Glenmister; subs, Langwirth and Meagher.

THROWN IN

The St. Mary’s' basketeers forfeited
their game on Saturday evening to Dal.
Wanderers beat St. George’s, which

gives Dal still a good show for the
“ y.

saved $120 last Wednesday evening when the skati = called
off about seven 0’cl e Dartmouth
and ish teams had a work out,
but judging by results neither one profited me

 

 

new gym. Monday evening seems to be

Dal Wins Both Games From Dartmouth

the most satisfactory and the schedule
will probably open on the 13th.

Dal is scheduled to meet St. F. X.
here in an intercollegiate fixture on
Wednesday, the 15th. As Dal plays the
Wanderers on the 14th, some other date
may have to be arranged for the Antigonish boys. They are still under
‘*Covey’s ban’’, but that doesn’t amount
to much.

Pharmacy seems to have a speedy
sextette of rubber chasers, and it is too
bad they were not inéluded in the Interfaculty league. The idea seemed to be
that they should combine with Dentistry
as in football, but some misunderstanding evidently occurred. They defeated
Law (minus Jones) last week, 4 to 1, at
the South End rink.

See account of Pine Hill-Birchdale
fracas in write-up of the two residence
correspondents. The subject is so delicate we refrain from touching it. But
he was some referee!

A Saskatchewan Opinion

‘‘But, seriously though, I think the
trouble is this: It seems to be a fixed
idea among both boys and girls that if
a fellow once,asks a girl out for an evening, he is responsible for her escort during the whole term; so it happens that
no other chap feels like asking her out;
or if another DOES ask her, she refuses him because she doesn’t want to
turn down the chap who asked her before, and who, of course, she expects to
ask her again. This is a condition of
affairs that should be changed, because
it is at the very root of our greatest
social problem.’’—Ubyssey.

>

 

WARNING!

All ye who are to Love. inclined,
Learn this from my undoing; |
Unless your pockets are well-lined
You waste your time in wooing.

Dalhousie Headquarters
Sporting Goods

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at

our store at 40 Sackville Street.

We can supply you with every
thing for Sport Life. Also Pocket
Knives, Razors, Shaving Supplies.

Morton & Thomson

  
 

   
  

 
8

ne
— ——— - - ———_ —_—--—

MOCK PARLIAMENT

The Gazette leads, others follow.
Last week we declared without fear of
successful contradiction that we would
be the first paper to announce who would
be in the cabinet. After the Gazette
was on the streets, selling like hot cakes
at a hockey match, the official announcement of the eabinet came and it turned
out that every single forecast we made
was correct. When our story was written, there were still two portfolios to
be filled. Including these two, the cabinet ministers are as follows:

Premier, Minister of External Affairs and President of the Council—The
Right Hon. R. M. Fielding.

Minister of Finance—Hon. J. R.
Nicholson.

Minister of Justice—Hon. W. C.
Dunlop.

Minister of Railways and Canals—
Hon. G. C. Macleod.

Solicitor-General—Hon| R. M. MeColl.

Secretary of State—Hon. C. B. MeAskill.

Minister of Marine and Fisheries—
Hon. 8S. M. Zinck.

Minister of Customs—Hon. James
G. Hackett.

Minister of Inland Revenue—Hon. J.
BE. C. Haslam.

Minister of Soldiers’ Civil Reestablishment and Health—Hon. J. F. Macneill.

Minister of Trade and Commerce—
Hon. H. P. Wickwire.

Minister of Labor—Hon. W. A. Livingstone. ,

Minister of Public Works and Mines
—Hon. D. F. McGeer.~°* )

Postmaster-General—Hon. C. L.
Beazley.

Minister of National Defence—Hon.
J. L. M. White.

Minister of Agriculture—Hon. A. W.
Murray.

Minister of the Interior—Hon. 0.
M. Langwith.

Minister of Immigration—Hon. Colin F. Melsaac.

Before this appears in print the first
session of the 1922 parliament will have
been held, being scheduled for Monday
evening. Col. J. K. Mackay declined
the honor of the speakership and efforts
were being made at this writing to induce Mr. A. L. Macdonald, a Law School
graduate and former Liberal leader, to
accept the position.

As the time for the opening session —

approaches groups state they will ask

ractically all the ministers embarrassfe questions. J. P. Connolly, the
stormy petrel and power behind the
throne in the Conservative group, an
nounces that he is dead against a

ites

  
 

gee

aaa LLL LAL I

mea
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

 

HELP WANTED

MEN AND WOMEN ‘to sell to

women in homes, _ rubber-lined
waterproof Gingham Aprons for
use in the kitchen. Can easily earn
$14 daily and more. Rapid seller
and ready demand.

Send 75 cents for sample apron and
full particulars. Money refunded
if sample returned.

BRITISH RUBBER CO.

232 McGill Street, MONTREAL

Neilsen & Mills

LIMITED
26 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

SPECIAL—Evening Dresses to Measure in
two days, including all materials,

$18.90 to $33.50.

LADIES’ TAILORING DEPT.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed.
— OUR LEADERS —
Broadcloth, Velour or Pure Indigo Blue Serge
$49

Velour, Plaidback, Chinchilla Overcoats........... $37.50
Many others from $34.90 up.

Open Friday and Saturday Evenings

 

 

UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA
HUDSON’S BAY. COMPANY
RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP

 

ee above fellowship, of the annual value of $1,500.00,

tenable at the University of Manitoba, in any
branch of pure or applied science, open to graduates of
any Canadian ‘University, will be filled for 1922 about
May ist. Applications should be in the hands of the
Registrar of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba,

by April 1st.

Further particulars on application. Address

THE REGISTRAR,
University of Manitoba,

&

Din
~~

 

i =, ¢—e ‘ Ve 5 hd
” a —- = Ww ieee <=3- Pe ae =i
PP ETT be ee en, ee eat
= — i * ad a “4

 

 

ALPHA, BETA

You know the rest of this Alphabet, but
won't you learn the Alphabet from a music
dealers’ text boak. It starts like this:—
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons,
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles,
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos,
Celestaphones, Carionets, Drums.

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC.
And so on, every letter represented. Everything in
musical goods from a Piano to a Jewsharp.

Call and inspect our Goods before going elsewhere.

J. A. McDONALD PIANO &
MUSIC CO., Ltd.

419 Barrington Street, Halifax, N. S.
Phone Sackville 1200.

Announcement

THE TARRY INN is under the manage- |
ment of two Dal. students, Fred Tremain,
Arts ’22, and John McCurdy, Dentistry, ’26.
As students we understand what students

want.
BREAKFAST
LUNCHEON

SUPPER
CONFECTIONERY
FRUIT

‘PASTRY

Special Rates for Students

TARRY INN

SPRING GARDEN ROAD. Sack. 3875

 
  
  

 
