 

FOUNDED 1869

ousie Gazette

 

Vol, LIV.

Che Dalhousie Gazette

-—FOUNDED 1869—
Issuep Weekiy, One Dorian Per Year.

Business Manager - - J, R. NICHOLSON, B, A.

es 77 Queen Street. ~

Editor - - = C, F, BOWES, B. A.

All subscriptions and advertising accounts payable
to the Business Manager.

Abeoviate Editors
Miss Ereen Burns Miss Maser Morrison
O, CoLquHoun R. F. Cannan
©, Cray ©, R. Baxter
G. C. Mactzop R. M. Ricuarpson
J. G. Fogo
Sports Editor -- +++ + J. A, Duntop
Special Reporters
Miss M. 0, Mappen; Muss Roserta M. Forpus
L, A, Munro; W. G, Pomme .
Miss J. O'Connor,
«aL 10

peenent

 

“With this issue ay Hy Gazette iendloiad
it year, with the exeeption of the GradnN umber, which will appear after
» examinations. In a sense it has
been a successful one. The staff lays
slaim to having accomplished one thin
at has not previously been done an
is having put out an eight page
w avery weel me having had it ont out

Pte id 1 not arrive ¢ at the University —
@ were in no way

 
 
   
   
  
  
  
   

 

ree me 1 :
> ildi. “ 4 neg
aro, 2 , Seer at =

Br Seah a

j bh 7 sg

¢ iy : ul
—S ~~

en ein a laitant ie te : ae .

ei,” Me i
- fal :
; ip oy a le

HALIFAX, N. S., APRIL 5, 1922

WHY NOT PHYSICAL EDUCATION
AT DAL?

The above question presented itself
to the writer after perusing a report of
a very instructive and interesting address on Physical Education in the Universities of the U. S. A. delivered to
the Medico-chirurgical Society of Edinburgh by Prof. R. Tait McKenzie of the
Department of Physical Education of
the Univesity of Pennsylvania. Prof.
McKenzie who is at the head of this
Department has under his supervision
the physical education of some 11,000
students about one fifth of whom are in
residence.

The limited space at the disposal of
the writer does not permit of any detailed account of this fddress so that
only the more important and more applicable features will be dealt with in
this article.

Probably the most important feature of the whole system of Physical

    
 

the stu it aeae entering th e uni

nt on for the first time. This is a
medical inspection in the true sense of
the term and not a mere form. of red
tape—far superior in every respect to
the so-called army inspection. Hach
student is — in detail and is
carded accor to the various abnormalities to id he is subject. This

is the general or routine inspection.

Having pn rm ne this stage he is given an appointment with a specialist in
each of the physical deficiences noted
ee eee he oa ers from some
given nalts oa ein

" bnor TY)
a ? ’

  

  
 

 
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

= 7 * in a *
= : . Se ae
ae . e, le See = P 21S
; * Le ets | hal a
ae . _ [ee eR * a = 4
¥ A — ; ’
. r. cere: 3 F a, 7?
re ve oS aoe
. ” uF *
: _« ae os
sie ot it i
- ia St ts 1
ye as Ps Pea ; eeare i
a - a4," ; a aT a fi f

the medical inapechion. At...

No, 12

in our duty to the students if we did
not take every precaution lest they
should come to grief and, in addition to
that, if we did not give them a sound
physical education adapted to their age
as well as a mental education........
Physical Education is not merely the
going through of movements. It is
the training of the whole point of view
and character of the student.’’

The reader will conclude that this is
a compulsory system and so it is. The
writer in giving the brief account of
‘‘Physical Education in the Universities of U. 8. A.’’ had in view the object
of bringing this most important aspeet
of University Service to the attention of ‘‘the powers that be’’ as well
as to the Students. Physical Education is a compulsory part of the
general school education in_ thirteen of the States and many of the
Universities have taken the matter up.
Compulsory measures must be taken if

it is to be a success here at Dal or any
where.

‘Before - closing the -writer would
point out importance of medical examination of incoming students. Many
come into Dal year after year who are
physically incapable of carrying on
their. college course, because of latent
disabilities whether it be tuberculosis

of lungs or many other of its forms, ete.

Our University is small but grow
ing and never was there a_ better
opportunity for the putting of the Physical Education System in practice.
Care must be taken however, to.see that
a proper beginning is made and compe- |
tent instructors are appointed or all
will be for naught. The students at —
Dal may be. divided into three hese
those who do nothing but study, those

who do anything but study and the hapon py medium who combine.

benefit all.

study’ with

Physical Education

 

‘CAPTAIN CAHAN \HAN RECOVERING
The many friends of Captain J. ,.
, a Brau te of Pain, or

son of
"| Gn .

    
 

  

ae
°

  
 

 

LEANING

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

UNIVERSITY HALL

The dance was nipped in the bud
and caused general dissatisfaction to
the residents and to the ladies—some
of whom had already been asked.

Circumstances over which they had
no control caused the resignation of
the house committee two weeks ago. A
new election was held the following
Tuesday. The popularity of Mr. C. B.
Popplestone was shown by his being
elected chairman by a goodly majority.
Messrs. Robertson and Cave are his
most ardent colleagues.

The final billiard tournament provided many good games and the handicaps seemed to have been better arranged than the two previous ones. In
the earlier rounds, the game between
A. J. Campbell and L.. Zinck was the
best. Zinck’s nerve held good and he
won by one point after a very exciting
last five minutes of play. In the final
game of the third round Poirier and
McKay provided a very exciting finish
—Poirier winning by the odd point
after both threw up several chances to
score. The best exhibition of billiards
was given by Bayer in his game with Dr.
Dawson, in the fourth round, Eddie
ran up the 200 in fifty-two minutes.

Zinck won from D. Cochrane by four
points in the last of the fourth round,
Zinck winning all his first games by a
very small margin, and giving the spectators a grand chance for rooting. In
the fifth round Poirier played Zinck
and Bayer played Seldon. Bayer won
from Seldon and Poirier defeated
Zinck. The final was staged Monday,
after supper, and Poirier won—the
handicap evidently being too much for
Bayer. Immediately after the last
game, Dr. Cameron presented the prizes
—all from the semi-final receiving a
prize. The recipients made short
speeches in reply—Bayer’s being the
shortest ofall. ;

The billiard committee are investing in a shield, on which will be placed
the names of the winners of the various tournaments, each year. We hope
it will always be an incentive to study.

PINE HILL

The week being devoid of marriages
or deaths, it may be said that life in

Pine Hill went on as usual, Perhaps

  

- it might be well to explain the phrase, —
”

 

S FROM TH

Yates, the Pope, Rod Holmes and McLean (not Walter) arise and perform
their morning ablutions, making the
Ivory Soap—99 9-10% pure—do its
best. At 8 a. m. comes the breakfast
bell. Then, and only then, do the great
majority rise and shine. After the
‘‘early birds’? and the great middle
class, come the ‘‘Last Bell Boys,’’ MeAulay, Brick, Clint, Bob MacKinnon
and some more, manage to get places
at the last table. |

Then comes the rush for the nine
o’clock class. On stormy mornings, the
early ones have the job of trail-breaking. At ten to nine a figure is seen
dashing along the cut. It’s Robb, running for his attendance. The more fortunate creatures, the ten o’clock tribe,
busy themselves with the morning
papers or finish shaving, ete.

Dinner gong jingles at one. - The
hungry mortals, who were freed at
twelve, dash down to the dining hall.
Later those who have classes tili one,
arrive. The rear is brought up by Geo.
Green and Calkin, who hope thus to obtain some buckshee pie. Finally Arnold
Smith appears on the scene, and, swallowing a few bites, starts on his route
march to Tech, sometimes with his pie
in his pocket.

A brief respite, then more classes.
Supper time come at last, and after supper prayers—for those who need them.
Ed Aitken then organizes a basket-ball
game. Howard Hamilton, Dinty, Britten ‘and some more musically inclined—
or declined—go ‘‘from harmony to harmony.’’ Reid, Morrison, Alex. Murray
and Clay engage in a hair raising game
of checkers or chess. Others prepare
to spend their money, or just the evening, down town. |

At 7.30 the students start to study. °

At midnght the multitude retires, but
some night hawks with discordant
clamor, discuss their likes and dislikes
until one-thirty. Then about two, Cassidy or ‘‘Chis’’ is heard whistling ‘‘My
Hortense’ but on being gently asked
to ‘‘put a sock in it’’ they desist. Silence descends, to be broken only by the
syncopated sounds of sonorous slumber.
Such is the ‘‘usual’’ day ‘at Pine Hill.

Each night on th she pds.
Siaktag cesenage aapl aumniaiite Ah

Her muscles oath cua
er ,
she

 

: F yy yd
: = « " y = «
p i A ' e's ai
Till it out of bds. hie han!
f - : * J 4 == - eat o i ; 2
- : ; - x = . rs wat
z z f ; a 8 a e4 \ fa
‘ ; E ail, i i *,
i e s ) . = “m) : a
— = ; =f "= e ~~
2 i a

=
*

 
 

 

MARLBORO DOINGS

Though it still looks the same on the
outside there has been quite an atmospheric change within the sacred precincts of the Marlboro lately. Spring
and all its little accomplishments are
coming, and the house bade farewell to
a gay winter with a dance on Thursday
the tenth. In spite of the inauspicous
day and the fact that it is the last we
shall have this. year every one had a
wonderful time, though the time spent
on manufacturing a moon from a waste
paper basket and the money spent on
joss sticks were both equally wasted.
Perhaps the most enjoyable dance of
the evening was the balloon dance—a
contest as to which couple would manage to keep their balloon last. The
winners were presented with prizes—
to the lady a powder puff and mirror,
guaranteed to fit any nose and to the
gentleman a baby vamp (kewpie) in
one of the popular one piece dresses.
It was with regret that the last gentleman was shoved from the door in a pair
of noticeably misfitting rubbers. But
it was a nice dance while it lasted.

Our famous conservatory has been
further brightened by more roses, the
only regret which the house expresses
in this respect being that owing to number size and variety of the plants contained therein those who want to sniff
the pink and white beauties can only do
so from the hall.

We all sympathized deeply with one
of our number when we heard she had
to go all the way back one evening because she forgot her rubbers—we sympathized still more after glancing at her
feet.

It was with a surprise and deeper regret that we learned what an unexpected effect the study of the law can

have on one fair damsal. It appears
that she was approaching the close of a
long and s discourse on her fav
orite subject which even her poor bed ©

could stand no longer, it gave way with
a loud crash percipitating her into the
middle of the room. It was then and
only then that her remarks showed and
gave @ of a deep and compre
hensive study of the law.

law
As A. M. was getting ready one day

in great has res the
ae oor & f.”’ she remarked

  
  

j a =e aan hay 30 L 7h o] ent r $ fi = ah ee f
: : ’ ; 4 =) ae) ae he 5 so
. Sia. at) SF ait vl Beg Bia Rk eae!) == a Lf Fa8 ri #-f
Wisma waned Ga ira ed ct eal
rss jt ess ee ee ee aie. 7 ae hy a ee
pS eee as ST A En en Bi ae
: = + : 5 5 #;' ¥ ¥ ;
; Pe! ‘ ue ‘a E
x , * 1 w) 4

 

    

vtly, ‘‘Oh, dear I hate to
“ Ah H. M, JL y Ei
is y iishle ees tis soe
Df * 5
i7> "Cl . 15 - Ve
é wane? oe Bee os =

WHAT THE

COMMERCE CLEARINGS

‘‘Principles of Banking’’ was the
subject of Mr. D. MacGillivray’s eloquent address to the Commerce Society,
recently.

The attendance was unusually large
owing, as Mr. O. R. Crowell aptly expressed it, to the drawing power of Mr.
MacGillivray’s name.

Professor B. C. Hunt, chairman for
the occasion, reminded those present
that he was introducing not only a very
successful business man, prominent in
public affairs, but a man keenly interested in higher education and in Dalhousie University. The applause which
greeted these remarks fully expressed
the esteem and admiration in which Mr.
MacGillivray is held by our students.

Mr. MacGillivray first explained that
two or perhaps four lectures, would be
required for an adequate treatment of
his subject, and that he would confine
himself to outlining the principles of
banking.

It was Canadian Banking in particular that the speaker outlined, stating
the broad principles on which the banking system of the Dominion is based. He
dwelt upon the safety of this system,
emphasizing the security of Canadian
Bank notes, safeguarded as they are,
by the assets of the bank, the double
liability of the share holders, and the
fund held at Ottawa. He explained the
ease with which our banks transfer
money from places where it abounds to
places where it is needed; and how this
ease of transfer of money is a potent
factor in building up our nation.

Mr. MacGillvray also explained why
banks must have deposits, and how a
good banking system gives the depositor
the highest possible rate of interest on
his money, and lends money at the lowest possible rate of interest to the borrower. This enables industry to grow
and thrive, and this is what all Canadian
banks are doing.

Mr. MacGillivray showed how it is
also the business of the banks to issue
bank notes, and how the notes of all

banks outstanding

 
 

  
 
 
  
 

4}
fT J ’

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Banking System lhas stood ‘the latest
test.

Mr. MacGillivray’s closing remarks
embraced some excellant practical advice to the students for choosing their
future work, —

A vote of thanks was moved by Mr.
A. R. Crowell, President of the Commerce Society, who ably expressed the
students appreciation of Mr. MacGillivray’s lecture. Mr. Douglas Campbell
seconded the motion, and the lecture
came to an end with the applause of the
students for the able business man and
gifted speaker to whom they were
privileged to listen.

A meeting of the Commerce Society
followed the lecture.

NOTES OF THE LAW SCHOOL

Dr. D. A. MacRae, Dean of the Law
School, has just announced that $250
has been received from Hon. R. B. Bennett, K. C., LL. B., 1898, LL. D., 1919,
former minister of justice and one of the

Governors of Dalhousie University, the

money to be used in purchasing books
on the History of English Law for the
Law School library.

Among the books to be purchased
with this fund Dean MacRae states,
will be 37 volumes of the Publication of
the Selden Society, including editions
of the early English Year Books and
other early productions, some of which
are: Select Pleas of the Court of Admiralty, years 1390-1404, 1527-1545 and
1547-1602: Select Cases in Chancery,
1364-1471; Select Pleas of the Court of

Star Chamber; Select Cases Concern
ing the Law Merchant; Select Charters
of Trading Companies; Select Cases
Before the King’s Council.

It is also hoped that the Bennett
Collection will include such early books
as Glanville, written about 1189; Bracton, written between 1250 and 1258;
Britton, from about 1290 and copies of

. such early abridgements of the law as

Statham and Fitzherbert. The books
urchased out of the Bennett fund will
kept in a separate collection in the
law library and will be marked with a
special book-plate to distinguish them.
Dean MacRae and his colleagues at

_ the Law School are greatly pleased

with the gift as they hope it may be a
foundation of a first class collection of
books on legal history, which will enable really scholarly work to be done in
old at Dalhousie. Dean MacRae

sted the need of at least two other
ions similar to the Bennett Col
4 i

   
 

ght form appropriate

os emma

one a collection of books on Legal Biography and another a collection of books
on Jurisprudence. He confessed to a
hope that before long some other alumus or friend of the School would establish one or both of these foundations,

‘STILLS’’
(Results of a Lecture on ’em)

There are certain stills for purifying
water;

Our professor knows about ’em; sure
he ought’er!

So he told us how the steam

Makes the microbes cuss and scream.

‘Cause they cannot bear the water any
hotter.

Then there’s other stills of very wide
selection

Where you mix some mash according to
direction,

Where you boil the hops and malt

With the raisins, yeast and salt,

Quaff! and dinged if you will wake till
resurrection.

You can manufacture home brew in a
kettle
In a ‘‘Liebig’’ glass condenser—tho
she’s brittle.
You may brew what’er you will
If you have a little still
But you needn’t—if you still have a
little.
“Hh! Henry!’’
As HB

SENSIBLE LETTERS TO
SENSIBLE PEOPLE
To Vox:
Sir or Madame: ‘

I admit the allegation. The game
was funeralesque. Possibly the fault
you find is what made it so. But mostly it was the audience. I thank you for
suggestion but fear it cannot be acted
npon however much I wish it as most
of the players don’t and as we stand a
strong chance of being put off the floor
if we did.

We’re sorry it’s so. We thank you
again.
The Capt. of the Dal. Girls’ Team.

FROM ‘‘JUDGE.’’
‘Lips that touch a cigaroot,
Shall never rest beneath my snout,’’
So the sweet young girlie used to
gay, af
But now the sayings on the shelf,
She even uses ra herself,
And it looks as if the habit’s come to
i ie
4

Cee Enns a

MOCK PARLIAMENT

The Gazette secured the following
exclusive interviews from the leaders
of the three parties in the Law School’s
mock parliament, on the decision to
dissolve the house and appeal to the
country after the unprecedented sitting of February 27, when the two opposition groups, Conservative and Progressive, united to defeat the Liberal
(jovernment on two bills:

L. D. Currie, Progressive Leader—
‘‘Didn’t we tell you it would be like
jumping out of the frying pan into the
fire to change from Tories to Grits or
vice versa? The Progressives, or Radiéals, or whatever you choose to call us
will block everything any of the other
parties brings forward, good, bad or
indifferent. The mere fact that your
bills are right in line with our program
does not mean that we will support
them. Far be it from such. We are
the people and we must be respected.
We want power and won’t be bappy till
we get it—if then.’’

John FF. Mahoney, Conservative
Leader—‘‘EKiver since the days of Sir
John A. Macdonald the Conservative
party has been The Party in Canada.
Kivery good piece of legislation ever
passed in Canada was passed by the
Tory party. The Liberals brought
prosperity between 1896 and 1911 because they adhered to the National Policy of Sir John Macdonald. The Tories opposed the Liberal railway policy
in 1903 and their position has since been
eloquently vindicated. What have the
Liberals ever done? Nothing.’’

Hon. R. M. Fielding, Premier and
Liberal Leader—‘‘Last December the
people of Canada regained the senses
they had lost in 1911 and returned to
power the great Liberal party, the party of Mackenzie, Blake and Laurier.
They wanted to bring back a golden era
such as existed. between 1896 and 1911.
No sooner had we Liberals started to
bring it back by introducing legislation
in the interest of the whole people than
both other parties obstructed us. They
have obstructed everything, simply for
the sake of opposing, from the first, and
not one iota of constructive criticism
- has come from either. We throw back
the challenge in their faces and we will
leave it with the people’’.

Seldom, if ever, has such a scene
been enacted in the halls of the mock
parliament as that which occurred at
the final sitting. Two Government
bills were introduced and defeated when
both Conservatives and Pr ives
voted against the Liberals. y one
bill was passed during the. whole session, an amendment to the Bank Act

nin tbat. 3. e oe

  

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

AN INCIDENT IN THE LIBRARY

While working in the Library the
other day, the writer saw a student come
up to one of his friends who was busily
reading.

‘“What are you reading that for?’’
said the first student, ‘‘We don’t have
to read anything out of that book, do
we?’’

‘‘No, it’s not a book prescribed by
any professor, but I was just reading
it for my own benefit,’’ was the reply.

‘Oh, I see; you’re not going to make
any use of it,’’ and with a shrug of his
shoulders the inquirer passed on to the
next desk.

Now unfortunately this is the attitude of a great many students. Unless
the thing they do is going tobe made
use of by them immediately ,objectively,
in some way which all will know about,
they do not trouble themselves with it.

A similar type of mind is prevalent
in the business world. That line of conduct which brings in the most money
is looked upon as the only one worthy
of pursuit. ‘‘How much will this net
me in dollars and cents?’’ is the all important question underlying business
deals. The man who deviates from this

line in business is looked upon by his

fellow business men just as the inquiring student looked upon his colleague
who was reading solely for his own benefit; i. e. with good natured contempt.

Of course no sane minded student
would neglect his text. books in order to
read books which happened to be more
agreeable to his individual taste. The

a

examinations are much too real to per- —

mit any student to labor under the delusion that his ‘‘outside’’ reading will
get him marks, Similarly in the business
world, the making.of money is essential
to successful business.. But the student
who reads extensively will graduate
from college a truly educated man,
whereas, he who reads only the books
prescribed for his particular classes will

be little better than a machine, capable —

of absorbing only what is marked out
for him by some one else, and absolutely

at sea when called upon to do any orig
inal work.

Nothing that is read and retained is
lacking in ultimate benefit. The examination paper may not require knowledge of a certain article, but who can
pe when such knowledge may be useul?

It is therefore the du
wish to have all the benefits of a “a
nee to read as extensively as the
class work oe rmits. Nobody can know
too much.
self, irrespective of any reward to which
it may lead. |

Freshman: (To

ike = re r ,
Aes ee, " SW ed, r = te ade
=F | a ee ee tim = y z= Phas i) ee ebay x Ra a
= i a EP ihe ' Ale at - 2°92 ee Sa oe

of those who —

owledge is a good in it

 

J-h-n D-n-l-p: (After a midnight
feast in L-n-g W-h-s room.)

‘The age of miracles is not . yet
past. Here we have fed great multitudes with a few loaves, a pie, and a
chicken; and many baskets of fragments
seem to be left over.’’

 

Examination Time

You will need extra supplies, such as

FOOLSCAP, NOTE BOOKS
PENCILS, PENS, INK, 'Ete.

We can supply all your needs, and appreciate
your patronage.

FAULKNER’S
16 Spring Garden Road.

 

 

— THE —

NA-DRU 
CO.

Line of Toilet Articles
Perfumes and Family
Remedies

Every man’s Education should
contribute to his welfare, —
fort and enjoyment, and henc
NO MAN’S EDUCATION :
complete without a Tae
knowledge of the Nadruco L

as above.

National Perfumes are exquisite, novel and lasting. Are
‘made from the most rare and
pure ingredients, by men of
many years’ experience. They

are un by any other
makes, whether "Domuutie or
Imported.

Nace, Dole td had
ec an

fully Dressed.

Nadruco Boiss are

- manufactured chemists from formulae steak bare
eae aa + plain

ane

toe are aE

Sate ays Oe

 
  
  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

DALHOUSIAN’S FINE
SHOWING AT HARVARD
Word has been received by a member
of the Faculty that a Dalhousie graduate
now attending Harvard University, Mr.
J. A. Bentley, Arts ’18, who took his degree of M. A. last year, has made
a splendid showing in the recent examinations at the above-named institution.
He secured in English 1 a B plus; in
English 9 (Spenser,) a B plus; in English 14 (Drama) an A minus, and in
English 72 (Nineteenth Century Poems)
an A minus. This is a fine showing, and
Dalhousie may well be proud of such
scholars as Mr. Bentley. Students will
join with the Gazette in wishing him
even greater honors as he continues his
studies.

“HOW ABOUT IT’’.

The ring of the workmen’s tools, of
the saw, the chisel, and the hammer
around about our college during the
past year, fills the imaginative brain
with the picture of the great institution
Dalhousie is going to be in the near future. The future graduates are going
to have a better training (at least mentally) to battle with the problem of life.

Here is the point in question: Are
the improvements to go tending only
to the development of the mental side
of the student? It is almost needless to
say the neglect of the physical development is a hindrance to the proper mental development.

The opening of the (Gymnasium has
provided an opportunity for the physical improvement of students.

It may be said the opportunity is
now open to all, but the maximum benefit is not going to be received without
the proper organization of this important feature of Physical Training. The
average student is not going to receive

sufficient physical training in the col-—

lege sports.
What the college is most deficient in
at the cer time is a course in Phy
sical T ran:
The addition to the staff of a P, T
Instructor giving a regular course

would be one of the greatest assets the

Further such a perees is needed at

eS ege sports to oper
ate things properly.

An hour or two every week of good

hard drill, would soon change the round

shouldered, slouching student shuffling

a develope vars reaecsalle 0
nt to a @ ap
son, with a ok

; n but for

in his eye

MARLBORO DOINGS

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)
know?’’ It must be said in defence of
Miss M. that the lady who asked the
question was half asleep—and wasn’t
sure of what she was saying.

The two seniors in the house being
so greatly in the minority have learned
that a meek and contrite heart availeth
much in the presence of Juniors. As

one of them was heard to remark in re
sponse to a question, ‘‘I am washing
my stockings to save my soul.’’ However the criticizing night at Delta Gamma comes once a year and the Seniors
all agreed that they got off pretty easy
considering what they had expected.
Many are wondering if R. McG. D.
would have recognized his double, at
any rate she has studied him carefully
and knows his mannerisms.

~ As O. A. was leaving the other evening one of the girls called out to her,
‘‘See you in the funny paper Saturday
Olive’’ and immediately came a- loud
voice saying, ‘‘Oh, you'll never see Olive
in Saturday Night.’? We wonder if this
will have reference to the coming Saturday night?

This residence, by the way, was. very
proud of the fact that the leader of the
girl’s debate was chosen from the Marlboro and altho we all expected success
on her part as any one who had heard
Olive on the telephone would do, we
hardly thought she would attain such
distinction by her eloquence as any one
who attended the debate would heartily
endorse. We felt honored also to be
able to entertain the girls from King’s,
and as it was an unexpected pleasure
on our part, as much as theirs, we hope
they will pardon the fact that we had
made no preparations for them.

The house committee would like to
take this opportunity of thanking the
following gentlemen for their kind and
thoughtful donations to the house.

Mr. D. Campbell, apples; Mr. K.
Dunn and Mr. R. Armitage, Perry Pies.
Both apples and Peary Pies were appreciated to the utmost extent. All

contributions thankfully received. R.

8. ©. A. OFFICERS 1922-23.

President, Ma t+ Kuhn; VicePresident, Esther MacKay; Treasurer,
Margaret MacLeod; re Marion
Irving. Cabinet—Anina . MacNeil,
MacLean, Jean Webber, Hilda O”Brien,
H. sc M. MacKay.

 

sf eard today ‘that your son was an
undertaker. F thought you told me be

  

 

 

Gauvin & Gentzel

18 Spring Garden Road
PHOTOGRAPHERS

GROUP WORKS

A SPECIALTY

ELITE STUDIO
Phone Sackville 692

 

FOOTWEAR

QUALITY, SERVICE, ECONOMY.

Footwear for all times and eeasons at the new LOW PRICES.

This is the Nearest Shoe Store to Dalhousie

THE SPRING GARDEN
SHOE STORE

W. FENTON, Manager.
25 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

5% Discount to All Students

Bob Johnson’s
BARBER SHOP

ENJOY A SHOWER
BATH OR TUB
SHOE SHINE PARLOR
LADIES’ SHAMPOO PARLOR
in connection.

Ladies’ and Gents’ Manicuring

MAJESTIC THEATRE

— THE —

YOUNG MAN'S STORE

 

The best stock of Up-to-date
stylish Clothing, Furnishings,
Hats and Caps in the City.
Call and inspect our stock
before purchasing.

  
THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

PLAYER'S

NAVY CUT

CIGARETTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

   

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

LL

Neen sera

 

IN RETROSPECT.

‘(The tumult and the shouting dies
The Captains and the Kings depart.’’

Which being interpreted means that
the hockey season is over. Further application to this delightful little couplet
will well repay the struggle. For in
‘the tumult and the shouting’’ can we
not discern Charlie Baxter, megaphone
in hand leading his crowd of foghorns,
klaxons and freshmen. Can we not in
voke poetic license sufficient to construe
in the words the ‘‘Captain and the
King’’ our only royal dignitary of the
weeping willow—the Duke.

Yes, the season is over, and it is only
Joe White and a few others who have
sufficient leisure to fight over again in
detail the seventeen odd battles which
the Tigers team participated in during
the past winter. The ‘‘man on the
street’? will say they were lucky and
blame the rest on Duke MclIsaac. But
is he not part of the team—a most
necessary part, but part, nevertheless.
We do not deny that old Dame Fortune
was in the offing on many occasions or
that Horseshoe as well as Horsler ought
to have been on the line-up in one or two
erucial battles. But there was something else behind those eleven victories
besides luck and Duke MclIsaac. Hvery
man on the team worked hard, and it
was no one man team. The boys won
the city and Intercollegiate leagues because they had the goods—because they

ss

Played, 17; won, 11; tied, 1; lost, 9.
Goals—For, 56; against, 39.
Not a bad record.

Notice some oddities—the Duke
never had more than four shots past
him in any one spasm, even at Boston
where he was wearing those tissue
paper pads. His batting average was
about 2.26 per game. Fabie Bates led
the scoring getting about 16 approx.—
Roe McKenna besides the laurel wreath
for winning that last crucial game,
holds the team record for devouring
‘hot dogs’’—the rink management tell
us his nightly average was about six.
Bricky Dunn holds the social record
his average in Boston, Windsor, Amherst, and the city being about 3 per
night.

Prof. MacMechan: ‘‘If any of the
tenderer plants feel a draught from that
window they may rove across the room
to another seat.

Result: Immediately Robb creates
a sensation by being the first to move.

 

Acknowledgments

The Gazette wishes to acknowledge
receipt of subscriptions from the following: Mrs. B. D. Earle; Misses Mildred Lavers, Elsie Philips, Clare Smith,
Anna McKenzie, Mona Thompson, Jean
Bayer, Lois Smith, Jean McGregor;
Drs. D. A. McRae, Jas. A. Proudfoot,
J. H. L. Johnstone, John Macdonald,
W. B. Moore; Profs. Read, Dawson,
Messrs. R. B. Viets, W. S. Gray, 8. A.
Morton, Edward Cummings, A. D
Watson, Mrs. Hector MacInnis, Misses
Jessie Mcleod, Sara Morash, D. HE.
Nicholls, V. K. MacMillan, W. M.
Sedgewick, Evelyn Crowell, Mary Sutherland, Winnifred Webster, Drs. WwW
Macdonald, W. W. Woodbury, L. M.
Silver, G. H. Murphy, K. G. Mahabir,
J. 8S. Munro, A. G. Laird, Judge Wallace, Dr. J. G. MacDougall, Prof. B. C.
Hunt, H. Murray. Messrs C. H. Mitchell, W. A. Black, Walter Mitchell, H.
KE. Mahon, A. J. Campbell, C. J. Burchell, G. B. A. Rice, J. W. F. Chisholm,
EK. W Todd, A E. Macdonald, Robt. E.
Chambers, W. 8S. Thompson, Austin
Macdonald, Fred P. Bligh, J. H. Trefry, H. B. Stairs, J. 8. Roper, J. McG.
Stewart, Alfred Whitman, W. A. Henry, 8. R. Brown, A. A. Dysart, Rev. C.
W. Bryden.

J. R. NICHOLSON,

Business Manager.

Fad
COW f2 made every game count and stuck to the ©
last.
We will not go into a complete vivisection of the players—we will use
neither the microscope nor figures of
speech. With the exception of Lilly,
Smith and perhaps Horsler they will
all be back next fall should a kind Providence and the faculty permit. The
place of Lilly will be the hardest ‘to fill
in both football and hockey, ‘‘Art’’ has
taken a prominent part—as fullback on
the football team for the past three
years, and as general all round man
with the. hockey squad. He _ will be
missed. And we will miss old G. K.
Smith and Tommy Horsler. Next
year’s manager will feel he has left
someone behind when he fails to detect
the familiar figure of ‘‘Hortense,’’ and
fails to hear that gratuitous advice 80

try Lane

 

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

=

STOP PRESS

nd Lami - =
~~ *
‘ 7
FEE a S
* an *
a,
~
‘~
*, "
Sab E fF.
4 Ye . v y
~ nas ’ tS
a ——

.
" 4
x
.'
.
" eee "

a “
ae
.
:
~
ee "
"
4 l aemes « p ,

 

 

Dalhousie won the newly-inaugerated Ladies Intercollegiate Debate from
Kings this year while the regular Intercollegiate Fixture went to Saint
Francis Xavier. Both contests took
place in Halifax. A full report of these
debates will appear in_ the Debating

Player’s Navy Cut
Cigarettes Satisfy
Fastidious Smokers
Everywhere.

preter PLAYERS

Section of the Graduation Number.

   
     

a a
. “AeA
ny to->
“PP ag, 
a ~ a .
a4

Dalhousie Headquarters

Sporting Goods

We welcome the Boys of Dal. at

 

  

 

kindly tendered.
Let us look for a minute at the
res of this so called ‘‘lucky’’ seagon, The faculty of Commerce tells us
that they at least do not lie. We will
ive them in all their horrible details—
the Boston debacle included—and
oo the Duke played or not. Here

+t

 

“THE OBSERVING AND INDUSTRIOUS
STUDENT MAY PICK UP A GREAT DEAL DUR__ING/HIS COLLEGE COURSE.”—Morning Paper.

our store at 40 Sackville Street.
We can supply you with every
thing for Sport Life. Also Pocket
Knives, Razors, Shaving Supplies.

Morton & Thomson

:

      
        
 
  

‘ + == g = ; = <
=) (2 See : ’ paeme
dh ms AU I e AALL +
: ? : a = Le 4
i ‘ =f =? 7 ¢ : n
= ha ' 4

MOCK PARLIAMENT
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE FOUR)

designed to help the farmers more than
any other class. The two defeated bills
were the Railway bill and the Divorce
bill. After they were beaten a want of
confidence resolution was moved by J.
K. Mackay member for Pictou and former Minister of Militia, and it carried,
the Liberals not voting against it when
Premier Fielding accepted the challenge for an appeal to the electors. Mr.
Currie seconded the want of confidence
resolution. The largest gallery at any
sitting this year attended and all stayed until the finish, nearly midnight.
Among the interested spectators were
H. P, MacKeen, former Premier, and
Marshall Rogers, former Minister of
Justice.

After several ministers had answered the questions of D. ©. Colquheun, menrber for Halifax; R. D .Harvey, member for Victoria City and
other members, Mr. Nicholson moved
the second reading of his bill to amend
the Bank Act. The bill, as the minister explained, was to facilitate loans to
farmers so as to make it easier for
them to finance their farming operations. J. H. Macfadden, Progressive,
of Kings, spoke against it, claiming

_ that it would only make the farmer’s

plight worse. One of the things proposed was bank loans on grafts on

trees. This was pure graft, he said.

Mr. Mahoney, Conservative leader,
supported the bill, however, but said it
did not go far enough. When the vote
came, all the Liberals and enough Conservatives supported the bill to carry

The second bill of the evening was
the railway bill, introduced by Hon.
G. C. MacLeod, Minister of railways,
its chief clauses providing for a consolidation into one system of all Government railways and subsidiary enterprises, the creation of a commission of
five to operate system, the establish
ment of I. C. R. headquarters at Monc
ton and giving the Government power
to abolish or alter the Railway Commission and the present ©. N. R. directorate. The minister said that there

- had never been a railway problem un
der Liberal governments, but Tory governments had been responsible for

ee problems from 1878 until last
r. (Liberal applause.).

    
 
  

 
  
 

~ The bill was sup by Hon. John
F. MacNeill, minister of Health and
§. C. R., who stated that most of Oanada’s railway difficulties could be tracnd to the Mackenzie = i ae
government, In 1911, he said, Borde

  
 

THE DALHOU 3IE GAZETTE

ly an effort, they said, to bring back
the patronage evil, and to give fat jobs
to Liberals after the Conservatives had
been fired. The Government, they
claimed, owed a big debt to the C. P. R.,
which must be paid, or they would be
turned out. (Conservative applause).

Arthur Lilly, Progressive, of Calgary, voiced his party’s opposition to the
bill. He claimed that they were against
consolidation at all, and that the Government ministers and members had
‘‘expatiated with ponderous verbosity’’
on the problems confronting the country, but their efforts were a mere brutum fulmen. Mr, Lilly particularly
objected to the classes regarding Calgary, which he said’ was not a village,
as intimated by the Railway bill, but a
thriving city nestled on the broad plains
of Alberta, within sight of the foothills of the Rockies on a bright day, and
every day was bright out there. (Progressive applause).

The divorce bill provided the most
humorous situations of the entire session, from the time EK. Lionel Cross,
member for Preston, introduced it on
behalf of Hon. W. ©. Dunlop, Minister
of Justice, who was unavoidably absent,
until J. P. Connolly, who tried to be
member for Preston, but was defeated
and had to take a seat in Montreal,
spoke in opposition for the Conservatives. Marriage was defined by the bill
as the union of one man and one woman
for life only, while woman was called
the discarded bone of man, from the
Adam’s rib theory of evolution,.so to
speak. FF. A. Hamilton, Progressive
member for Africville, also spoke
against the bill; which, like the Railway
bill, was defeated by the solid vote of
the two opposition groups.

Probably the most eloquent speeches
heard during the session were those of |

Col. Mackay, Mr. Currie and Premier |

Fielding, on the «want of confidence resolution. The first two thoroughly raked the Government fore and aft and de
manded that, since three Government
bills had been defeated, one at a former

t, ‘the gov
siting and two that )
confidence

ernment did not have '

le)

7.

of the House. The Premier after
an able review of the situation, in|

 

which he charged the two other parties with ir obstructionist tactics and a.
lust for power, ed the latter al
 

THE TARRY INN

Did you ever think of telephoning the Tarry
Inn after an evening of hard study for a box
of eats?

They will put up a delicious lunch of:—

BROWN BREAD and BUTTER
SANDWICHES, DOUGHNUTS
CAKES or PIES :

The Telephone Number is S-3875

THE TARRY INN

be

26 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

DRY GOODS, MILLINERY
LADIES’ READY TO WEAR
CUSTOM TAILORING
SPRING SUITS,
SPORT COATS

MILLINERY, BLOUSES, Eitc.,
Arriving Daily

 

   

    
   
 

  

 
 
    
     
   

Colwell Brothers

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET
1283 YOUNG STREET

    
 

0 eee nen

HATS ——— BAGGAGE
MEN’S FURNISHINGS

HENRY S. COLWELL .....ccscsscsssenseeess President
GARNET J, COLWELL, .........s:0000 Vice-President

 

  

     
 
 
  
  
    
 
   
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 
