     
 

_.

ee mah te

  

~~

é

Paz
je

re

eR

_e= wwe
mate
4 ~

’

pet PS 78

r

a7
t

er

at i<¢ 4.

_housie Debating team, and that of

- leader; John W. Douglas, of Amherst;

| aeltisinésn has strangled the trade of} jeader r,

ered their rebuttals.

ie ty the work of the S. C. M. as welt as

ree
"VOL. Lxiv.

 

 

 

King’ ’s Win
Dect Dal
Debaters

Canada has no real need of a dictator and the present system of democratic government is the one which will
in the most efficient manner lead her out
of her economic difficulties. Such was
the decision reached at an inter-university debate held between the Dal
WHO?

German People.’’

King’s college, in King’s College, on Dalhousie University.
Friday evening last. The debate was
on the resolution ‘“‘Resolved that Canada Needs a Dictator,’’ and the negative side of the resolution, supported
by King’s College were the victors by a
2 to 1 vote of the judges, Dalhousie
was represented by Bruce Ferguson,
of Port Morien, leader; Ronald Copp,
of Halifax; and Harry Sutherland, of
New Glasgow; and King’s was represented by Arthur L. Chase, of Kentville

2nd. Aff. 15 min.
tal 5 min.

Acadia Girls Win
Debate Over Dal.

The Dalhousie Girl’s Debating Team
and William H. Pipe, of Amberst.| went down to deteat at the hands of
The Chairman of the Debate was Dr.|the Acadia Girls in an Intercollegiate
A, H. Moore, President of King’s Col-| debate held in the Dalhousie Gymlege, and the judges of the Debate were | jasium, on Friday evening last. The
Dr. A. McD. Morton, Dr. Dougal) subject under debate was ‘Resolved
~ MacGillivary, and Dr. M. A. B. Smith} that Women’s Suffrage is Justified,”
The fiirst speaker for the affiemative| nq the affirmative of the resolution
Bruce Ferguson, declared that even as} was upheld by the Dalhousie debaters
_ people change their ideals and thoughts namely the Misses Beth Atherton
so their ideas of the manner in which leader, Edith Blair, and Phyllis Burns.
_ they shall be governed change. And|/ The Acadia team, which supported the
_ he stated people are becoming tired of negative side of the resolution consisted
e capitalist system, which by it’s of the Missees Margaret Leonard
Enid Creed, and Laura Paythe World. The government of the} 7ant, and the Chairman of the debate
Dominion should be placed in the} was Dr. Carleton Stanley. The judges
hands of a dictator, who would have} were J, A. Walker, K. C.;C. J. Burch‘complete control over the affairs of | jj, K. C.; and F. G, Morehouse.
.tne nation. Miss Beth Atherton, the first speakArthur Chase opening the debate for| e, for the affirmative, declared that
the negative, stated that a dictator| complete suffrage is justified, since
would have despotic power, and there-| government is carried by means of and
fore would be very liable to curtil the | with the consent of the people of the
freedom of the press and freedom of country, and this can be done only
speech, and he stated a dictatorship! when the complete expression of the
could hold power only by means of us-| people's opinion is obtained by a full
ing force which would be very inkurious| vote of both sexes. She stated that
to the morals of the nation. Mr. Copp} sex should not be the basis of. withcontinuing the argument for the affir- holding the franchise, since women are
mative, pointed out that a dictator} equally bound by the laws, and therecould choose the most able men in the | fore should have some say as to who is
nation to from his cabinet, whereas in| ¢ 9 draw up the laws for them.
many cases it was only those who are} ‘The opening speaker for the negathe most popular who hold the cabinet | tive, Miss Margaret Leonard, that the
positions in the present democratic} yote of the woman has not changed the
form of government. In time of econ-| way in which the vote swings, since the
omic as well as military crisis, a cen-| majority of women vote the way their
tralized power is what a nation needs| husband or father tells them to.
rather than a democracy. Women have shown practically no inMr. Douglas, speaking for the nega-| terest in politics since they have ob- tive, said that the old democratic tra-| tained suffrage.
ditions of this Dominion would pre-| Miss Phyllis Burns, for the affirmavent her from accepting a dictatorial | tive, said that since the home is a vital
form of government. Mr. Sutherland] ejement in national life it should be refor the affirmative, pointed out the| presented in parliament. Legislation
horrible state into which the finances) would become one sided unless man’s
of this Dominion had fallen under] jdeals were balanced by those of women
democratic forms of government, and| Women should have state protection
declared that a dictator is necessary | to improve the living standard of those
in order that the government of the| women engaged in industrial pursuits
nation may be carried on more econom-| Miss Laura Payzant, the next speaker
ically. The final speaker for the nega-| for the negative stated that women in
tive, Mr, Pipe, pointed to the fact that) general should realize their enormous
a dictatorship would be very demora-| influence not because they have been
izing to the country as a whole, since} pranted the franchise, but because they
the people would lose interest in the | have a great cultural influence on the
methods used to rule the country, as| |jfe of the World.
well as in the laws passed by the gov- Miss Edith Blair, for the affirmative
ernment. Mr. Ferguson, tor Dalhousie | stated that giving the woman a vote
and Mr. Chase, for King’s then rend-|has greatly influenced the morality
ef the state, since the state has become
conscious of it’s primary function, that
is the protection of its weaker members.
Also the power of the woman’s vote is a
great factor in the peace movement, the
keen sympathetic understanding of
woman having been a big factor in
producing a more humane outlook
among those that govern us. The
concluding speaker for the negative
Miss Enid Creed, declared that the
granting of the franchise to woman
robs her of her true empire which is the
home.

 

 

—————
ANNUAL MEETING

On Thursday March 8 the S.C. M.

is to hold its annual meeting which will

be in the form of a supper meeting with

caer singing, election of officess,

etc, All students who are interested

| these who may wish to know more
about this active organization wiil be
vey welcome. Time, place and other

E "details of the meeting will appear in

JUDGES—Audience Vote.
SPEECHES— Ist Aff. 10 min.
2nd. Neg. 15 min.

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA March Ist. 1934.

Harvard vs. Dalhousie

WHERE?

EVENT—International Debate.
AUSPICES-—Sodales Debating Society.
DATE-Friday March 2nd, 8. 30 p. m. sharp.
PLACE—-Dalhousie GymRESOLUTION—“‘‘That Hitlerism is a Benefit to the

Studley.

SPEAKERS—-AFF. Howard M. Lawn, C. Lowell Harris of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
NEG.—J. Harrison Cleveland and Irving Rubens of

Ist. Neg. 15 min.
Aff. Rebut
 

Distinguished
Italians To
Give Talks

It will be remembered that during

the past few months, lectures free to |

the Students of Dalhousie were given
in the Gymnasium under the auspices
of the National Council of Education
and the University. These lecturers
were Prof, Zimmern and Sir Norman
Angel.

There is another firther and quite
unusual treat in store for students a
others interested in such matters.
group of three very distinguished s
alians is to pay a visit to Halifax. On
the evening of 9th March in the Gymnasium, Don Mario Colonna, a scion

 

of one ot Italy’s oldest and noblest
families, will speak on the ‘‘Government of Italy.”

On the evening of March 16th and
17th in the Gymnasium Signor Eugenio
F. Croizat will show and lecture on a
collection of the world’s most famous
paintings. To see these marvellous
lantern slides is said to be as good as
to visit the galleries themselves, and
to provide an evening’s entertainment
never to be forgotten.

Then, also, in a Hall down town, to
be later announced, Signora Amy Bernardy, well known as a traveller and
lecturer and Master of English, wil
lecture on the evening of 138th March.
This distinguished lady has had much
success as a lecturer. There will be
no admission charge to any of these
meetings, and the Faculties and Students of Dalhousie University are
cordially invited to take advantage of
the course.

Official Report
Council Meeting

The Council of the Students met in
the Law Classroom at 2.30 p. m. on
the above date with the President in
chair. ;

A net grant of $35.40 was made to
the Hockey Teamtocover expenses of a
sudden death game at Acadia for the
N. S. Intercollegiate Title.

A request from Mr. McLellan that
the Council absorb the deficit of $14.70
arising from the recent Intermediate
Basketball trip to Liverpool was granted.

The meeting approved an item of
$20.60 cover|ng expenses of two D. A.
A. C, delegates to a meeting of the
Maritime Intercollegiate League in
Amherst.

 

 

Miss Atherton rendered the rebuttal
for the affirmative, and Miss Leonard
that for the negative. Following the
debate the visitors were entertained
at a very enjoyable banquet.

 

 

 

 

Dal President
Extend Welcome

 

Welcome to Harvard Debaters. Dalhousie University extends a hearty welcome to the
visiting team of debaters from
Harvard University. The
terests and purposes of University students are common
the world over as is more and
more realized. But the common bond can be strengthened
in no better way than in visits
of this kind and in friendly debate and dispute. May the
truth enlarge.

in
CARLETON STANLEY, M.A.,LL.D.

 

Dal Debaters

J. Harrison Cleveland the Dalhousie
leader is a graduate of King’s University and gold medallist in classics. He
is a member of first year law at Dal
housie—Mr. Cleveland is an experienc- |

ed and forceful debater having repre- |
sented King’s in three Intercollegiate |
contests. He isa member of Phi Delta |
Phi Legal Fraternity. |

Irving Rubens,
Dalhousie hails from Brooklyn and has |
demonstrated his at
at Sodales. Mr. Rubens is taking a
Science Course at Dalhousie and has
debated for Columbia University. |

second speaker for

 

ability a speaker

es eis

Harvard Debaters

The Harvard Nieee who will sup- |
port the resolution on March 2nd,
M. "Od,

New Jersey. He is a member}

afc

Long

Howard Lawn, of
Branch,
of the University Debating
Council, the Coolidge |
Medal for participation in the
Yale debate, and is Business Manager
of the Harvard Critic,
ate publication devoted to criticism

Harvard

a recipient of

1
annual
an undergardu
of university policy etc.

C. Loweil Harris '34,
braska.
ard University
recipient of the Coolidge Medal and is

of Omaha Ne
Debating Council, a

 

tte

DAL. vs. HARVARD DEBATERS TOMORROW NIGHT

DEBATE WILL FOLLOW
PARLIAMENTARY STYLE

 

No. 18

 

 

 

 

Much interest is being manifested
the coming debate with
tomorrow night at the Dal Gymnasium

| The subject is certainly an argumenta
| tive one and to this end the officers of
| Sodales are attempting a new depar| ture in Intercollegiate debating.

| After the four speakers have

| sented their views the

in

prehouse will be

Harvard |

will be limited to five minutes.
Dalhousie is fortunate in entertaining the representativés of a very distinguished college on Friday evening.
This is the first time that representatives of Harvard have debated here,
and they are assured of a warm welcome
This debate is the second encounter
with an American team this year and

| avail themselves of the opportunity of | 25c.
| speaking from the floor, such speeches

 

dent of Class
last

He is a member of the Harv- |

 

House
ne ommitte e.

ee

chairman of the Leverett
College, if you will

—_—_

 

Mr. Archibald presented statement of the financial situation of the
Year Book to date, showing a very dis
a

couraging condition of affairs, and an-| tors of student affairs decided to de
ticipating a minimum deficit of $1033.00
and the probability of a considerable
increase in this figure. The Council
agreed that it was financially inadvisable, but after
sion, decided by a vote of 6-5, that the
obligation to the Senior Class offset this

considerable discus
objection and decided to continue it.|@%d introduction of the new council
|}members will be high lights

Mr. Archibald was instructed to economize wherever possible.

The Council next voted unanimously
to eliminate the Munro Day program
(or
}

 

 

divided along parliamentary lines and
| anyone present may support attack the resolution.

| All students of International affairs
are urged to be present to hear a clear
exposition of an important question.
| It is hoped that a large number may

will mark the culmination of a very
active year in debating circles,

The parliamentary style of debating
which is to be tried for the first time at
Dalhousie has proved very popular at
McGill and other Canadian Universities. Admission students free, others

Or

 

Life President

Life Officers
_ Are Elected
By Class ’34

Ernie Richardson, president of his
Freshman and sophomore classes, was
elected life president of the class of '34
at their final regular meeting in Room3,
Arts Building last Thursday. Other

|nominations included Don Stewart,
Hal Connor, who had to refuse it, not
epxecting to he here for graduation
week, and Don Archibald, who turned
it down as conflicting with his work on
the year book. Wayne McKie was
made life vice-president, D. B. Stewart,
‘life treasurer and Merle Marceila Pur| till, life secretary. Dr. George Wilson
was made honorary life president.

Other business included the question
of a class party—to use up the balance
of the class’s funds. It was decided to
hold a party for members of the
SENIOR CLASS and their guests at
the home of Merle Purrill on March

7th, A suggestion sent forward from
the Junior Class regarding the Junior
 

Ernest Richardson, elected life Presi
'34 at the meeting held
Thursday.

 

No Munro Day
Frills This ae

 

In a sudden burst of economy |Semior Ball was reat. The Junior
brought about by failing revenues and a Class were quite willing to hold the

(the Senicr Class willing) if the Seniors
would pay 35c per plate they would put
it on at the Lord Nelson Hotelon March
15th. The class went for the latter
suggestion in a big way. The meeting
concluded shortly after.

dents council determined to cut out
all the expense frills in connection with
Munro Dav. To the tune of no more
money in the bank the sedate legisla
lete the tea dance and afternoon activities from the program altogether.
Munro Day will consist of the tradihalt holiday with the evening |
entertainment presented largely along
the lines of last year.

The presentation of athletic awards

rrr
tional |

THE W. H. DENNIS ENGLISH
PRIZES OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS

 

Two prizes are offered for poems, im

of the | any style (lyric, dramatic, or narrative).
early evening with the customary ad- The First Prize is $200.00 in Cash and

dress by the President. the Second Prize is $100.00 in cash.
This will be followed by the Glee Two prizes are offered for English

me with the exception of the evening | Club show—which is guaranteed to be prose, compositions (of a length be
performance.

from the Year Book.

A request from the Badminton Club

for a grant of $91.00 foratripto Mount
Allison for a Maritime Championship
match was refused due to the weakened condition the Mr.

of finances.

Murray was a complimented on his | a2PPropriately set the date on March

efficiency in administering the Bad
minton funds.

It was decided to recommend to the
D. A. A. C. that that body consider
replacing Tennis by Badminton as a
major sport next year. This recommendation was based on the comparative lengths of the periods of play.

The meeting adjourned at 6 p. m.

Respectfully submitted,
M. M. RANKIN,
Secretary-Treasurer,

 

 

This was with a view to | JUSt long enough and just bright enough | tween 4,000 and 6,000 words.) The
lessening the financial blow e xpécted | to suit the most exac ting critics.
| ve ry likely dancing will follow.

—and | compositions may take the form of
‘essays, short stories, or descriptive
sketches, on any theme. The First
Prize is $200.00 in cash and the Second
Prize’ is $100.00 in cash.

For further particulars candidates
are referred to notices on the Bulletin
Boards, or copies of these may be obtained in the University office, Mac
To members of the fair sex who may
have purchased a gown for the afternoon tea dance there may be some
consolation in the fact that after al
these deliberations the council very

13th. So Munro Day is coming, let’s

all co-operate. : Donald Memorial Library Building.
2 oa-_____
Ee
NOTICE.

GAZETTE MEETING.

Council Elections—Tuesday, March
13th—9.30 a. m.—5.30 p. m.

Arts and Science vote in the gymnasium.

Medicine and Dentistry vote in the
Munro Room.

Law votes in the Law Library.

The weekly meeting of the
Gazette staff will be held at
the Murray Homestead, Studley, today at noon. All members of the staff are requested
to attend.

=i 4
ae es eo ee es >

 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College]Paper in America”
as ei in a NE Set! Le i
__ EDITORIAL STAFF.
e 5 ‘Editors.

W. "hae B. A.
} B. 2548.
Associates. %

Borden Stoddard,

J. L. Dubinsky.
~C, W. Burchell.

1a.

- EDITOR—HARRY SUTHERLAND, B5487.

45! a
gh? Associates: Douglas Crease. James MacIntosh.

- Arthur Merkel. E. Arab.

--- SPORTS

EDITOR—TED CREASE, B5787.
Associates: Donald P. Cameron.

er Ruth Skaling. |
RLS EDITOR: MARTHA KENISTON.
sociates: Mary Simmonds. 
Merle Purtill.

_. BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.

ee fat ; Ma v 7 | bie  Circuiation Assistant Manager
DAVID. H, HOLLAND.
i wane

a

.

C.K.MACDONALD. HOWARD C OXLEY, B.A

 

- SHOULD PHAROS BE ABOLISHED?

ET Pio et a | |

a ee Hat much-maligned institution, the Dalnousie Year Book,
q Bide _ * is beset with more difficulties this year than ever. So

serious have become the finances cf the Student Bcdy that at the

Perl

last regular meeting of the Student Counci! a moticn to abolish

Pe the Year Book was defeated only by a casting vote. The division
of opinion on the matter in the Council should be a pretty rair in dication of the opinion of the Student body as a whole at Dal_housie. Pharos has never been particularly attractive to most
- students, and indeed not all ot the graduating students take the
trouble to purchase the record of their college. The Year Book
_ has always been a source of great expense, an expense which might
be hard to render justifiable, and this year is proving no exception.

*

the prepaiation ot this year’s Pharcs, a most alarming deficit seems
»robable, i for thi | | i its abclition
probable, and it was for this reason that the question of its a

was brought before the Council. It is more than likely that stunt finances will end on the wrong side of the sedger this year as a
of the publication of Pharos. While it may supply some
we of need at Dalhousie, it is questionable whether the need

0
gh to justity the financial sacrifice involved. lf

ill render its disappearance from Dalhcusie a matter

“
re

ae

’
, J

— Fe
ice o ae
Only.” my
. yt NB
a fc

a

‘4a ; 7

YEAR BOOK CRITIQUES.
JT isa relief to hear that this year those in charge of the Year
___. *Book have decided to eliminate the flowery eulogies of past
__- years and to print factual accountsof graduates’ careers at Dalhousie. The tendency has been to compose flattering send-offs
ae ale cosa and athletic “notables,” and inane comment concerning
i‘. the lesser lights of the college. It will be said that if a man has
-__ taken an important part in the academic and_ extra-curricular
__ afiairs of Dalhousie, he is entitled to commendation in Pharos.
_ ‘If he or she has done well, straight factual statements of their work
et.” will speak for themselves. Adjectives cannot lend their efforts
any greater prestige than they have themselves earned during their
fr lives at college. Their works will live longer than printed praise.
] And in the case of the lesser known student who has not taken
| -——s@ great part in college affairs, the new critique will be more satisfactory. Frequently he lacks only the opportunity and has all the
_-—sf eappabilities ot the campus favorite. Having to yield preterence to
| ___s=+his class Jeaders during his years at college, he will at least have the

aa
ee

oh.’

an
7
aT

ee satisfaction of starting from scratch in the written account of his
-__ eollege career. By all means keep out the adjectives.

*

 

 

 

id
‘ Laie

AY.
on.

 

' - oF
, . ey *s Pane,
co ¥ ey ~ he a —
-_ oat Pe bet ae Se ai, i * 5
i Tied ly m4 CS ct? ee ie ail i

2 4 Pe ee we ee a 7) es “eee

7 P hs mis es os oan ye a oe =P ee a4 Re, ce

Ra ee A Ck ne 2 ~

‘ et an | Ae ; ye

r * at oH te iil “ * + < .
Peeves ete he
a" Le rn . a 7 \
a = “< = “~ —
4 ‘ / >;
bh, 7 o-_ te yi 2
- @ _— ms g la 2
ae ee As gti pry
‘ al i q , f rh
2 Lo . :
r fF .
’ ¥ i ." ved | c : / a
t B gg (
y f =e it F
3 , a — s y eis
. es 5 HA ‘ »

4 i” ~ aS : ;

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

  

Canadian
College
Comment

Views and
Abuse

  

 
 

   

  

 

NOBODY BOTHERS.

LESS TENSION.
We heard a criticism of Dalhousie

on a train the other day that was interesting enough to be turned into a
virtue, though it finally turns on what

Though the political situation in
Europe at the present is tense and

™ = = ——— SS ge eS ee Sa a > pele ts ees ES. be ts ee wE Sn aL se , i c Cie ta rye a | _— re mS z oN als
eR ee nT ST ee OTE CP MAM ee rage TE
RREM IEA eta Ee eee fal RA Sra, hee es oe ee eRe ep ea wee ee es Te
AALS ae ene we arte’ ‘ee a) ae We ees ee, Se Led ee ey one ve eee eee es Tome Sy Prititah cS a
oe pager, eae ‘ i” r a Fv 3 ee i, te . = Poe as aes sac ‘ Jt) . * wa ein kh A j # - <a | * - iy .
ee a 1 a oY ee eS, Pe. i i . ia : Fe Re ] or : 4 cs o
Cer Ons NPE Ss ake, gee Ot eae ee sou eer treats es
Smaart “ak eae ; : | ;
Me ; O - ’ a ,
Re *
iP mS
iP:
¢
i i =
March Ist. 1984

 

Ex-Stud2at Scores |

Sterilization
Editor, The Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear Sir,

Mr. MaclIntesh’s perspicacity in
tracing Mr. Ex-Student’s dogma (thereby demonstrating its fallacy) reminds
me of the poem of Osbert Sitwell’s on
the Bishop who is suddenly awakened

strained, there is no immediate danger | {rem sleep by the Last Trump of the

one’s conception of a college is. A
graduate of another university now resident here, was asked how he liked Dal.
His reply was he certainly didn’t like
it, it was just like going to High School

again. He didn’t know many people |

{and nobody ever bothered about him.
| Admittedly Dal has its faults in this

respect, especia.ly if you admire the
rah-rah coilege spirit where everybody
knows everybody else, chews gum and
turns out to every event in a noisy
gregarious bcdy. It is a pointed criticism of Dalhousie life. Some students
with a certain sort of temperament are
likely to suffer if allowed to be alone
too much; they feel that tney are being
neglected. There is not sufficient interest taken in their work. Without

of a conflict, the prospects for such an
International war being less pronounced to-day than a year ago, according

to the Secretary of The International
Student Service who addressed a group
of McGill students on European affairs.
termed,
volution,” that is going on in Europe
to-day, pointing out that the future
of the world depended upon the degree

The Secretary stressed what he

the anti-individualistic ‘‘re
of intelligence and strength that the
students of to-day would bring to it.
Coupied with such salient features of
the address, he gave a lucid and comprehensive analysis of the European
strife. The nucleus of the analysis
seemed to bring out his opinion that
Germany was wrongly accused of stir
___ In spite of the fact that rigid economy has been exercised in

is year, and even yet the necessary action |
nei!—this annua! drain on the finances of |

'y er a :
Wee ta) fe

ae: K. C. Notes

   
     
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

oy The college debating team is to be
_—-—s congratulated on recent success in the
___ debate against Dalhousie. The de__. bate, which was held in the Residence
_-—s Was most interesting and was very well
‘ ‘attended. The King’srepresentatives,
; Messrs. Chase, Douglas and Pipe,
are all first-year students, which is a
- good omen for the future interest in the

_ art of argument at the College.

* ts

ad

em cal ae)
Setar irs

ae

 

__. The rifle team finished second in the
__ shooting meet held recently. The
_ scoring was excellent througout and
the team averages very high. The
____ Kingsmen won first place in their divi
Sion of the match and a very credit
t
—
w

G

r

The fate of the College basketball
team is difficult to prophesy. The
team doesn’t surprise us with vitories,
nor does it disgust us with overwhelming defeats. Playing Tech, a relatively weak team, Kings were beaten by
six points. And playing St. Andrews
the unbeaten league-leaders, King’s
lost by only eight points. The team is
what one might call an enigma.

A homicidal pastime, under the
name of buckshee basketball, was indulged in last Saturday in the King’s
gym bv the Junior and Freshman classes of the College. On account of the
tumult and uproar and the amazing
actions of the warriors, no one could
accurately describe what happened.
The final score was distinctlv in favour
ot the Juniors,

 
 
 
  
   

_ able second in the entire schedule,
Reems are (SC ivi ace at x ; 5

~ . - 7 . —! .
ae j ; <4

ig
s

EEE
LIBRARY NOTICE.

 

a, ~<a
*

*~

i an st . The badminton team from the First
__ Baptist Church swept through all the

_ ‘Matches but. one in their Tecent enBe he ee cee In-wpite of

The Librarians weuld ren ind
the students that there is a
five cent a day fine cn all two
week bocks ke t over time.
Will the students holding books
please return them at once

and avoid an increasing fine.
Will they also please read the
Library regulations at the

°

i.
j

a
)

> hard-fought an¢

i a

 

the encouragement of a little more ring up war, as they were not ready for
personal interest on the part of their} war, nor do the Germian people as a
professors and their classmates, they ' whole desire war. The real difficulty
, feel they are missing a great deal of|the secretary believes lies in Austria.
what college can give them. But on| The Sociaiists have been crushed but
the other hand the fact that nobody | it is doubtfui if Dollfuss will survive.
bothers about you has its virtves.| There is littie doubt that he is being |
Naturally a certain number of classes| driven toward Facism but this the
must be attended; if not Murray sends| Austrians oppose and would just as
a friendly note suggesting that it would | likely prefer a dictatorship of the Gerbe a good idea to drop in and see the| man type. However, in the opinion
professor about it. Otherwise the! of the Secretary, Austria will shortly
student is left pretty well to fend for | fall under Nazi wing but they will rehimself, make his Own acquaintances,| main independent.
and seek the diversions that please him.
Opportunities are provided, the student can make use of them and develop
hiniself in his own way. After allthat| The following is the first instalment
is cur idea of the purpose of a college. | of a letter which appeared in the Varsity
written by a German citizen to a student
in Graduate Studies at Toronto University. Itts very interesting as it gives
an authentic presentation of the Nazi
point of view and reveals the motivating
A student who has access to the files| ideas in, and the German reasons, for
of old newspapers remarked last week! the Hitler Movement. /t is quite evithat today, front pages appear, strik- | dently Nazi biased, yet tt is none the less
ingly similar to those of twenty years| valuable as the precise poiut of view of a
ago—they have the same war-scare|German Nativuatist,
headlines, the same comparisons of
armies and equipment and the same
black and white maps of the various
ententes. These pages make interest- ! am happy to be in the position to
ing reading. It is pleasant to be able| give you some brief information conto speculate on what could happen out | cerning the political conditions in Gerof present political conditions. Free| many; brief, I say, because it should
fron: the strife which has closed Cuban | be far more detailed to give a full-col
NAZI VIEW POINT.

WE WONDER.

Bremen, Germany

Judgment:
“—-With impressive frown
He sees his second hoisemaid in a

crown,

In rainbow robes that glisten like a
prism.

‘I warned them—’ said the Bishop—
‘Bolshevism!”’

But it is not Mr. MacIntosh's hasty
dismissal of Marxism that matters, nor
nis obvious misinderstanding of Mr.
Ex-Doe’s letter. It is his defence of
sterilisation that stinks cf iniquity.
It is apparent from the newspapers |
have had from home that Pine Hill has
alsc come out ever so boldly and p.blicly for this gelding business, and with
that institution’s usial lack cf imagin
ation, not to mention reason.

Iconfess that thinking over these
proposalsof ‘‘An enlightened Christian
morality ‘‘as I sat before the fire, I
had ludricrous visions of Mr. MaclIntosh and Dr. MacKinnon at large on
Barrington Street, each unsentinientally resolved not to let ‘the sword
sleep in my hand,” and chasing after
the mentally defectives with all the
callous abandcn of a Harpo Marx.

I gather, however, that Mr. MacIntesh, neither a Hitlerite nor a Marxist, is opposed to compulsory sterilisation (for wnich a not too diabolical
case may be made out). Christian
sympathy could not think otherwise.
But how in high heaven apply voluntary sterilisation? If the victim is in
telligent enough to agree te submit to |

be ge!ded by Mr. MacIntosh, he can
hardly be considered menta ly defective.
The truly feeble-minded in the depths
of his pagan ignorance would probabiy
bolt at the sight of these priests of Appollo and their gentie knives.

The whole question of thel egitimacy
and utility of the operation is disp.ted
by the highest authorities, religious
ethical, and scientific. The suggestion
in itself is a scandal. The operation
has undoubtedly ill effects. If Mr.
MacIntosh wants to be thoroughly
scientific and unsentimenta:it would be
better for him to advocate the subsidisation of blind and demented people
and make a long distance study of the

 

  
  

  

CARICATURES

With Reverence
For None

    

PROF. MERCER.

Prof, Mercer is our cther radio professor, and like Herbie, he has a son
who won a scholarship as a freshman
last fall. These radio waves must do
Prof. Mercer, who
unfortunately has no pet name we know
of, is our most athletic professor.
though he looks least like it. He is
intensely interested in badminton and
tennis, and some day he may be President of the Nova Scotia Lawn Tennis
Association. He has some reformative
ideas about it and may yet find means
to defeat the Halifax vote. Another
pet hobby is badniinton, and he secretly thinks the President is an oid meany
for interfering with his favorite sport.
He likes to write letters. When anything happens in England, someone
asks a question in the House of Commons, when anything happens in Nova
Scotia, Mercer writes a letter to the
papers. When he isn’t writing letters,
he is plaving the gramaphone, and regards this as the proper method of education. We think this a trifle hard on
the professors but, at any rate, a gramiaphone will run down. Prof. Marcer
has done a great deal for debating at
Dalhousie this year, acting as unofficial faculty adviser and donating his
home freely for this purpose. Despite
opinions to the contrary, he has been
known to smile, especially during the
afternoon téas at the gym which our
professers are said to enjoy.

something to one.

 

 

Engineering Notes

A brief but busy meeting of the Engineering Society was held on Friday
afternoon. Leuis Petrie and John
Proctor were chosen as the Engineer's
nominee in the forthcoming Council
-e'ections after a very close contest.
Doug. Bent, last years member of the
' Council, definitely refused to allow nis
name to stand again this year. Doug
said he felt somebody else should be
given a chance, but it was evident the
meeting didn’t agree with him.

After considerable discussicn it was
decided net to put up a picture of this
year’s graduating class. It was felt
that the expense would be too great for
the strained financial cendition of the
society. The proposal for a banquet
and an engineers party came up for

° tive : ‘ ‘ . : i -Us id : é .
and ether universities, and with few|oured picture of the new movement | conditions of heredifary -alfueat in discussion but the matter was tabled

of the cramping restrictions that are| under the leadership of Hitler. 1 may
placed on students in Germany and|be allowed to observe that I believe
Italy, the average Canadian student] myself to be ina better position to form
glances at the headlines, ponders ala personal judgment about the actual
moment and lets his mind go back to} state than many men sending news into
the habitual worries of bridge, sorority | the world,—news that is faise, and does

parties and how poor the college paper}alot of harm. Such men have no out
is this year. right intention of telling lies but lack
It was just twenty years ago when objectiveness and knowledge of the
Canadian students were doing the same important general facts forming part
thing—with not a care of European | of the situation and the events.
troubles. Shortly after, all the male Being now over sixty, I have traveistudents were marched away to a|.ed a good deal in my life and can read
sterner school where political science | and speak three modern languages
was a laboratory course and history fluently. Besides that, I possess
current rather than past. One wond-| more than ordinary knowledge of three
ers what would happen at Dalhousie] more living languages. I have madea
should war again be declared. Would] close study of the literature of all six
the students fight for the old catch- languages, not to mention my knowwords of ‘saving the glories of the ledge of Greek and Latin which I learnEmpire.’’ Wouid they fight from fear] ed in my eariy days at co:lege.
of public opinion, or would they dare] The World War saw me not behind
to refuse to fight? The attitude the|the stove or in parliament, but on the
girls would take is still more problem-| front in the heavy artillery. I served
atical. Would they advocate staying|31 months as a sergeant, the last fourat home or would the uniforms and] teen as an officer. So I saw enough
bands effect them to become nurses and | of hardship andstrain on body and soul
organizers of white feather committees? | and sufferings cf horrible cruelty which
Well, would war again make Dal a were the exception with the allies but
ladies college or would it continue co-|t¢he rule with the Germans.
educational? Future writers—if Honest—will sing
An editorial in the ‘‘Chronicle” last | the song of the superhuman bravery
week drew our attention to an amusing] of the German soldier at the front.
peculiarity of human nature, i. e,— Already some English writers have done
a desire to identify ourselves with some- so in an impartial and fair way,for
thing great or important for the mo- which the German nation will ever be
ment, no matter under what excuse.| thankful and appreciative.
With all due deference to the late King This has been a rather long preface
of the Belgians and the local paper in befere coming im medias res. It is
question, the fact that a cargo ship | Ccentinued on page 3
sailed from Halifax for Belgium almost
twenty years ago does not, in our mind,| important. J am connected with it,
establish a particularly close relation- remotely or otherwise, consequently
ship between us and the Belgian crown| I am very in.portant. This seems to
not, at any rate ‘‘an almost personal| be a very subtle form of self flattery.
interest” as the ‘‘Chronicle” reported. | and easily explains our pride in the colBut the same weakness can be seen in| lege, home town, and, ona greater scale,
practically every walk of human life,| patriotism. But it may be a necesand is, in all probability, a form of sary fault, for such pride provides the
snobbishness. For one thing it allows| driving power to make us work both
the person to hold the centre cf the stage| for ourselves and the things associated

 

-|for a brief moment. Scmething very| with us,

* _ ae
Ae) ‘. . :
a Fa ‘ =~
ha [Fy eer > j
S 6 diets a : *
ae Be Meee he fs . os : . 2
G ee eek ee ¥ ke ruatat Ie  « A f *
= . +” bois Se hes aie d ee . 7
a he J te vA 4 . She : Mee od at ashe ahs ‘
w= he a rs ie a ee ny Ee rege h ao aa J ae Sy “ - i eal : ;
aad ; —, . he ee : / ‘ ie =
Cop TR RES tie ae a cee a ee ee |
s iy ee “ab FO ce tts eT xe . 49 A : 2 t
3 Pies Si. Sah ti nyt | be er tee Si sy Uy Res
ou sls . . ys ee hae el. ia a i a 7 - } ey « i .
ee se z yay he BES bs) oe es +P Nau tie oT ra ei Mt as a Pane - ;
' wey Pe hts lm ee rade Be ch a ue gate a ‘ gees Sn le
See esate at acd Site Meet ba atl. eo es
i ~ " atin in Sorin a s : aged Ws le * - . A ms ri . ~ Aw » “1 < =

 

their children. This is a good deal
more sensible than the fatuities inspired by purveyors and expounders
of the unfathonable wisdom oi the Lord
cf Hosts. It is impossible to define
feeble-mindedness. The British Medical Association’s Committee in 1982
reported that ‘there is no hard and fast
line of demarcation” even between the
mentally sound and mentally deficient.
There is no defined standard of normal
intelligence, in spite of all the attempts
of psychologists. What passes for
sanity in Halifax would cause suspicious head-shakings in Moscow. There
is practically no family free from taint
—tuberculosis, syphilis, madness, addiction to drugs or drink. I maintain
with Ex-student that the basic problem
for ‘‘race betterment” is not sterilization.

In spite of his protests to the contrary, Mr. MacIntosh’s letter reeks with
sentimentality. It is so easy to state
nobly that the other fellow should be
sterilised. It gives one the impression
that one is doing one’s bit in the great
game of progress. The recent Wood
Report in Great Britain states that
mental diseases and physical unfitness
are increasing due n.ainly to the lack of
healthy environment, The British
Government is producing ‘‘mental defectives’’ at the present moment with
its Unemployment Bill. A dollar and
ten cents for an adult, and fifty cents
for a cnild is the magnificent sum allowed for a week’s focd. The slums
ef Edinburgh and Glasgow for example
are the dreariest God-fcrsaken sights
one can ever hope to see. Yet Mr.
MaclIntosh’s cure for the ills of the human race is to make the worst of these
inhabitants more dreamy and less vigorous than ever.

If this business of gelding is unfit
is carried to its logical conclusion, God
knows who will be safe. In sheer selfdefence I nominate the following groups
for the first queue at the Sterilisation
Office—

‘ ~~ ¥

till the next meeting.

 

 

The engineers team was elininated
from interfaculty hockey by the Meds
on Tues. night. As the nun.ber cf engineering students has decreased in the
past two years, it has become increasing
ly dirticult te find material forthe team
within the facilty. It is felt by many
that the Engineers should be allowed
to use their freshmen on the teams.
Others s:ggest that the engineers and
dentists should combine in all sports
as they did in football this year.

_—_

Such a brotherly atmosphere is prevading the drafting room these days.
If we are to judge by the general tenor
of the critiques the senior engineers are
waiting for one another, we may soon
expect to see them kissing each other
in tender embraces. We didn't realize
we possessed such a group of supermen
at Dalhousie.

 

eens
1, All clergymen and others who advocate sterilisation of the feebieminded Poor in the spirit of Christian
sympathy.

Their followers.

Movie actes.

Movie fans.

Professors of Economics who are
still ‘orthodox.’

Politicians who speak of Canadians
as rugged individ .alists,

Peopie who vote for them.
The list could easily be extended,
butis enough for the present, and would
enable Ex-Student and myself to enjoy
oursel ves in a world made safe for us by
the operation of Christian commonsense
as weil as sympathy.

2.
3.
4,
5.

6.

C

Yours for solidarity,

BRAM CHANDLER.
Edinburgh, Feb. 13.

  

aii = a or ; “ i" “|
ute Lb od aa” » a i 7 Pal a Hi “if oe Te akdhsY Vinca a i
CL nn, Ce 8) an ea) Le Py 1g ih
ae ay | te Oat 7 vis es) Lae c m we += iy
oy o ¥ al van : i % os fm =p ae f * \ —s a . -" ‘ My 2" pale T1 ha a ate As »
Bly Re hkl ee times on Tae 2 Gn

 
  
 
   
 
    
  
 
    
  
    
    
  
   
   
   
  
 
    
  
 
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 

a .

—. Tenjoy your column so much that I
. thou ght I would write you and express»
_ my appreciation of such a noble effort.
“When I read your column last. week, |
actually laughed, but I an. sure it was
the column even though Jimmy MacIntosh was sitting next to mc, However, no one seems to realize that you |
ae are just one of many students and it
' _ must be very hard to insult everybody
_ and still have a few friends. I have
been insulted by you once and I just

——
al ”

aor
P - mid

a
>

_ Harry Sutherland went to the Green
the other night and sitting next to him
; - wasa spry young thing who was play
ing with his hair and especially a curl
_ which was taking most of her attcntion. She leaned over to him and said
5 sn’t that just too too wistful.’’ Oh
= pe cla, la! la! That man was born to be
ip. foved. | 
Las

Two of the store loafers were having:
- an argument the other day about college girls and one fellow asked the othe:
_ how many girls really appreciat a
_ what the boys do for them. The othe.
fellow said, ‘Well, 1 don’t know just
how they should show their apprecia
* " tion,” but when thcy go back to th
hall after the date thev say “he's ;
‘a nice guy. Boy! what a supper.”

4
i

he
- ,
pe

&

The new P. E. I. theme song:
_ Wayne down yonder in the coin ficla,
o ‘Dal co-eds have a very poor opinion
of the males judging from the statcfen ment of one of their number who saia.
‘Show me a boy at Dalhovsie wort!
00 and I'll pay $2.46 and take him
the Delta Gamma.” Well, its a

~.

or this female might never get a
_ Just another lost friend.

ae

 

lof the students have purnts to pitch on the different
e; ‘hotcs ‘during dancis.
; will probably go on the warover this, while the students sing

nting to-night. I tent I bane go

ee

g >

_ Warren Beazley has been delegated
_ to send invitations to Helen Holman
announcing glee club rehearsals.

a

 

 

ae
oa

at
ge

Cael

‘ to
Eden, Wyoming, a temperature ot 41
degrees below zero was reported early
in January. That's not the locality

F

_ Adam and Eve knew.

‘Lon Chaney is back again—

ests ssh Sessions

“me p- The present year will bring the forty
first birthday of the automobile, but
_. Mark Hannaford’s looks even older
than that.

ae

 

dip

_ Back in 1890 some girls used to use
_ dumbells to get color in their cheeks |
but now they use the latter to get the

former.

 

Aon
al

pas.
7

ae

| AND
|GENTZEL

3 _ Photographers to

i
~
™
er.
7 y
Ce
i
4

A

i 7

x fis

t : | Dalhousie University

 

.
‘
4

of Y"

_ | 24 Hour Finishing Service

| See Our Pictorial Work
For Gifts


——

 

| 18 Spring Garden Rd.

F

ae
A rere f J >

| Phone B.6992.

a
=

fe . *

a

ae ety
ape 3 
4 ,

 

st

 

a ed date c a aS ee are nt b: pretkge tah oe oa eae Sas Bit cg at oh eat cd ent
= e.g deer nel eS 3 ee ee nc Se ieee 5 mT te . Cae : Sa se Soy Ses Ss Pe:
Pee ieee ee OR oe ets Ee ad eee, We Pha re Pie AE ee
Eee ay fg Sc a Ae ee cl gens ee ies oe as ee
ate ee: : so ee - > <7 a3
eter mmsr rie Be ot Oe .
Beane er eS
0 RS ec ae
oar a} apts r ’ —s ;
1988 ) | DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
aaiaaae = a SS a
er The Third Book Letters T, im
aw - t ra | ; eS . ' °
Tees te Third Book'Letters To Pine Hill
npus Of B ne
am pus unc

The Editors

Halitax, N. S., February 12, 19€4.

‘Chapter 8.

Peccadillos

(Wherein revoluticn ccmeth to Dal.)

ADVICE TO A SON.
(Continued)
Sunday, February 25th.

1. And as it came to pass in many
countries of the world, so tco in the
land of Dal there came a great 1 prising
cf the people against the rulers, yea a
revolution and the land was torn
asunder in the strife.

2. And the warriors of Med seized
control and lo, the denizens were eager
to wreak vengeance upon their former
rulers and loud were the cries of the
Army of the Plukked, which in Med.
dvuth number greatly and they brandished their weapons wildly.

3. Then did the rebels say one unto
the other, who is the most powerful
of the rulers in our tribe that we may
go against him, and a mighty shout
arose unto the Heavens, 'tis, Ray-HeeMund, lo, this son of Bee-yehen is the
is the most powerful let us surround his
tent and they did.

4. And behold their former overseer
Ray-hee-mund, son of Bee-yehen was
dragged forth and he pleaded with his
captors saying, dearest brethren beheld I am innocent of all evil. Burt
they who still smarted from the wounds
received at Kreesmis from Histol and

The Dalhousie Gazette,
Studley,
Halifax, N. S.
- My dear boy—
I sincerely hope that you are well
and attending to your studies as faithWould you please put these inquirics | fully as it is possible to attend with all
about Pine Hill Divinity Hall in your | the attractions which College life offers.
paper. Perhaps the greatest of these is feminHow we would like to be back at Pine | ine companionship. So, as I intimatHill this year. They tell us Big Nick | ed last week, I will try to pass cn a few
is Pope. Congratulations Nick. thoughts gleaned from the field of my |
They tell us there is no parking on | experience that may perhaps help you.
the lower stairway this year. I wond-| ‘The most fortunate man in the world |
er whv? Perhaps John Jarvie could |is he who has a single ideal woman in
answer this one. How about it John?| mind. He may have a long hunt
Is education more beneficial than} anead, but some day he may meet one
love affairs? Ask Charlie McKinnon} who exactly suits. The poor unfor-'
if he knows anything about it. How |tunate who loves them all will never be |
about it Charlie? content fer long with any one. He will
Why do students usually prefer a) make many a woman miserable and in|
Brick Building to one which is Con-|the end wiil be most miserable himself, |
structed of wood? Is it proper to let/ Of course, when Nature has provided
your own conscience tcll you or to| petite brunettes, statuesque blondes,
enquire of some one else? and an infinite variety of composite
How deep was the snow at Mt. Uni- types, it is as easy to expect an cld tipacke the last week end in January? | pler to pass thro. gh a wine-ce.lar withPerhaps Sarr Riggs could answer this} out san_pling all the casks as for a man

Dear Sirs:

Embreeyol and forsooth also from | one, How about it Sam? to be content with one. But this is
mea ke eer = erest yee They tell us Bath Robes are the 198: | my pcint—Have your ideal and keep
Bee-yehen raised their VIS. high leading fashion at Pine Hill. Is there it ever before you; taste everything
ntu the skies and he was silenced r

any one can tell us why? that comes your way, but den’t drink

Can anyone tell us this. Why | of any One inti. you are intoxicated;
doesn’t Fraser Nicholson keep his door | don’t mix your drinks, wait until you
locked this vear? Is it because of the | have sobered from one variety before

new staff? youtry another. In this way—a taste
is all you need—you will be able to
recognize just what you have been
seeking for when at last it comes,

The great difference between a cow
and a woman is that the latter was
sentiment, If you want to flatter her,
pour ycur sweet things into her own
little ear. Even if vou tell ner that
; I read with amusement in yo rlast her eyes are like limping fools in the
fur many mocns have we |-st favour in issue, a student critique of Professor | moonlight she will appreciate it. If
the eyes of the females, fur Lehcld they © B. Nickerson, in which, however
saw none bit this r_ler and did shower One small, but
him with affection while for us they had gnitted.

naught but contempt. | Th: chocolate peppermint, when re

As And the women too seized the fused, is invariably returned to th:
power in the fortress Shee-reft-yowl, pocket; presumably to serve again,
and the wicked ones who did feed the) shoutd th- ne.t Haide prove mor
inhabitants there with Hash, from the hungty bi Tek fadtllbne.
beginning of the week unto the end did) J, these hard times, and in so Scotmeet with their due fates. _ |tish—and Semitic—a university as
8. Behold, even in the peaceful tribe] Hainousie, it seems to me that this
of Law ruled over by Mudhook Smeet example of Yankee thrift should not go
there arose a rebellion and the most] J nremarked.

famous son of Law, Jaybee of Makka- 1 am, Sir, etc.
woy did lead the revolt against the SPECTATOR.

statesman Krew-yiss. ert ;
Shirreff Hall

9. And Makkawoy arose on a
Notes

pedestal and said unto his followers.

Hear ye, men of Law and they said

speak Makkawoy speak and we shall

listen. And he spoke and said, shal.

this monster slay our ranks with th«

dreaded Kay-yee-sez that he doth pour The joke was on the girls Sunda:
noon when Miss MacKeen’s small dog
greeted them coming out of the dining
room with a guilty look. Miss MacKean with a firm and resolute mind
gave the dog a good spa iting and then

over us from morning unto night so
that we writhe in pain and svffering.
Chronicler write in the Gazzyett and| found that the trovl'e wis all due toa
the peuple scc ffed and said fie upon this| lcak in the roof. That might teach

And the people shouted nay we shall
revolt, Jet us destroy his domain.

b ne and the rag wherein it doth ap-! him not to look guilty.
pear.

even so,

5. And ancther band of warriors
bruight in the prisoner Kroo-yikshanx and a joyful cry arose and the
people danced about in glee and cried
Behold no longer shall we be forced to
sit and unravel wretched Charritz
that this one doth belabo.r ts in|7¢ the Editors,
abundance. Dalhousie Gazette.

6. And the fighting did spread
quickly and in Arritz the handsome | gj-s..—
ones did si bdue the powerful ruler of
the Green, Zt rling.. For they said,

“Ex-Student.”

—

Signed

 

 

t
»} you Can't think cf anything else to tell
significant detail was} her say you willloveher. Ifshe won't
believe you, te.: her she is beautiful |
and she wil: be grateful whetner she!
be:ieves you or not. A woman may be
wearied of ycur questions, annoyed by
your jokes, and bored by your opinions,
but she ne ver tires of your compliments.
Some women honestly wish to be respected, but a far greater number preler being loved. This preference of the
majority makes a man’s life worth living. . A woman can ridicule your pleas,
resist your force, and. mock your
threats; but she has no defence against |
your indifference. Her strength is in
her weakness. She challenges by falt-)
ering, she fights hy yielding, and she
conquers by falling.
énd a quarrel with a woman, don’t try
to conv nce her that she was wrong: |
just send her a little present and shut
up.
When a woman can’t dispute another’s beauty, she will tell you that
such a type fades very early. What if

 

10. Behold all these things did the

 

 

 

 

    
  
  

  

Food © ae
for

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year

 
         
      
  

MacLeod, Baicom,

 

 

| Limited Thought acs iti etten
DRU GGIST Good Food fae Everybody Hali fax Trans for
pHONE B.7138

THE
Green Lantern |

(Dine and Dance at The Green)

|

—_—_—$ —————

BIRKS=

Memorial Tablets, and name
plates for professional men in
brass or bronze, are products of
Birk’s Craftshops
Designs and prices gladly submitted.

 

‘ATTF AX anc BEDFORI

 

 

 

 

 

NICKERSON & CREASE
| imited

IMPORTANT

Spec al Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per lb
FLAT PIECES 7c. per lb.

Wholesale Fruit and P.oduce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N.S

 

 

}FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough
for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?

Henry Birks &Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundry

ra =. " 2
id ; aie & . .
eis ie a ie
OES eee eae 7 ;
A au é 4 a) ~ y " i 4 t me d Oia
we ar rad bak ge ee an as es = j ae " Oe ind h ;
F , ke. She “y cn - rl J ra a a AFr we i r ft Pos é «
a 5 F er eT, Reet ie ot ee ca ot bol Ah Us . mn
‘ ” ral: = <4 ee At # te ‘ ;
Pett untae” Matt att Balt Toe ly en see Oe eA tR” Be lad” ons! (Vina a ° : ne SSeS dh
f a ot A " 5 7 . 1o s@ey . £ ae
A > ad 1 : pail J > 6 Ome, 1
"i = Ms = » FY - ~ * ct _ * 7 ‘

. a ' as a eh iy? Ae A, e i an ~~ ie

. een Sate SM Rem Mesh, or se ar or 8 a y a

f ea a ce on = ie r Ft ~ 7 Bs ising: He sind nh m a ; 7

le e ee TR ute ern. Nes Tae ee ay ee — ey ir
er = 2a Gs Bn 2 ee ee rt eA " re

a a sd ay ADEA mg” P ra a é * ; 7

| as ie. a a Lc 2 2 But pg _ a eer. Yen! i $= =

 

 

 

If you want to;

 

NOVA SUOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Da.hous.e Students with Eng.neer.ng D.p.omas
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five s holaiships of $/5.U0 each.

Write or call for Calendar or advise.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

Page Three

 

‘There is something
in “Knowing How” to make
cigarettes ...ask your friends

who always smoke Winchesters!

 

Winchester

CIGARETTES Wi bitte iY
. ' inc és Pr 2 G
Blended Right! oanerces:
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

   

 

beautiful blendes won't last? No one
expects a rose to bloom a.l summer nor
a butterfly to live through the winter,
but while they last they justify all the
adoration they receive. What can
anyone see beautifui about rosy cheeks?
Every old apple is red on one side; all
blonde butchers have pink and white
faces and the faded woman’s cheeks
are aglow with rouge. A face that is
nobly formed and whose features are
perfectly proportioned is marred by
colour. Imagine the Venus de Milc
with red blotches on her checks!

Scme wine is sweet, but, none so
sweet as a woman’s kiss. Some wine
is delusive, but none so delusive as her
glance. Some wine is bitter, but ncne
so bitter as her falseness. Acwut froma
stranger or a foe may be scarred over,
but astab from a friend you love leaves
a wound that never heals.

Then there are the different types of
women that you meet everywhere,
and I will comment briefly on some of
the more ccmmon examples that we
see.
The most depressing sight that I
know of is a fat woman trying to be

College Comment

(Continued from page 2)

necessary to gc back some distance in
order to make the German politica:
conditions clear to a foreigner, especially to the men of the ‘‘new world.”’

The U.S. A., with its 120 miliions,
a country of about 20 times the size
of Germany, has never known the
turbulence of dynastic and re.igious
antagenism which for centuries has
tormented the Evropean nations, chiefly Germany. The monarchica! system was the wedge driven between the
different small states to form kingdoms,
dukedoms and other—doms of liliputian size when measured by American
scales.

German eniperors, induced either by
ambition or religious devotion, lent
their powers to the Roman pope, or
ruined their countries in fighting against
him. So the consolidation ci the German ¢€mpire—contrary to British or
French political develcjmernt—was
again and again retarded. When the
Lutheran Reformation in Germany
broke, the sole power of the Catholic
cute or athietic. The brilliantly sar-\ confession, and the Protestant faith
Castuc girl that a man loves to sit next ; stood up against Roman or Trans.1lto at a dinner table is the last one in tramentan influence, ane ther sct back
the lot that he would select to preside | was given to Germany’s »vi-tic.. deat his own tabie. A beautiful woman | velopment.
is rarely clever, because there is no It was fortunately balanced by the
need cf it; the only rights she has are gain in the freedom of the Christian
the rights to be loved, well fed; and spirit. But the diffsrence in the conhandsomely gowned, and if she is gocd fessions has drawn a deep cit in the
looking she need not worry about get- body of the German nation. This cut
ting them. The blase woman is sel- was carefully kept open by those indom anything more than affected; the terested parties that co.ld cnly gain
meek looking one is more likely to have by it and benefit by the discord in the
had experience. nation. After the Franco-German war

After ali, there are some advantages of 1870 the unification of the German
about being a woman. She does not people was finally realized. The crack
have to worry about having her trous- jn the German nation, however, preers creased, her evening dress differs yailed, and has been more and more
from the servants, and if she is bow- deepened by the p litical Catholic
legged everyone doesn't know it. Party, the *‘Zentrum.”

5), hoping that you study the above Meanwhile another poison was inthoroughly, DAD. jected into the body of the German
nation, Social-Democracy. While the
religious division between Catholics
and Protestants created a deplorable
Situation, the growth of the Sucial'Demecratic party proved to be the
;ruin of Germany. Yet the living force
cf the German nation was so enormous that the loss of the Great War
had to come before this party cculd
undermine the country and hurl her
from the climax of success to utter
helpfulness, and make her the playball
of the rest of the nations of the world.

 

 

 

 

ial
The only trimming we dois to your

hair — Your pocke: book appreciaces

this. Look smarter in a Bow.by Trim.

HIGH CLASS
HAIRCUTS 2 5c.

BERT BOWLBY

Over Buckleys Barrington St.

 

You wont mind wet weather
when you hear the Musi-_ Masters
in We'll Make Hay - - For dance

tunes that satisfy.

CALL JERRY L-9238

 

 

HOME, LAUNDRY

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for complete Suit or Overcoat.

 

 

 

 

T. J. WALLAC

SiGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bide

“If You Vant Io

“ee Wa lace

       
     

See ell

 

    
 
   

BADMINTON SUrPLIES

We have everything needful, but
we call particular attention to
ur shuttle ocks, which include
the following makes Ayres No 10c,
3lue Goose, Dunlop Tournament
R. S. L. No 1 Tou nes, Cambell s
Consistant and others.
If it's sporting goods, we can

G. A. McDonalc
Tcbaccen st
Complete Ran e of F're:

25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road

BARRINGTON at GE
Telephone B-6226

ORGE

€.
Ree

    
          
   

— The Red-shirts method of working
the ball up the floor, their passing
around the Tiger’s defense and Goudey’s sensational shooting spelled de
. feat for the Bengals.

eee It is interesting to note that at the

_—s meeting of the Intercollegiate Union

at Amherst last Saturday Dal were
‘supported in their request home and
heme series with Acadia but by one
other Cellege namely Mt. A.

 

r Representatives were present from

_. Kings, U. N. B., St. Mary’s, Acadia,
St. Josephs. St. F. X. sided in witn
Acadia by proxy. The way on which
certain colleges voted was very surprising, very surprising.

The forward line of Flo Keniston,
Isabelle Fraser and Mar Keniston of
the girls’ Senior squad is showing lots
of scoring punch this.year. The In
 

 

Each

Men’s Wear Department.

 

os —
od i

 

 

SPORT COMMENT

 

&atonia

Fur Felt Hats

Eatonia Value

See the new EATONIA felt hats on display in our

styles suitable for men or young men in smart
_shades of browns and greys.

Eaton's Main Floor

  

 

tercollegiate League is at present at a

standstill. Last Saturday’s Game
with Acadia has been indefinitely
postponed,

 

“Cappy’’ Cooke star centre of the
Dal hockey team certainly had a tough
break at practice last Monday. The
boys were warming up before practise
when ‘‘Cappy” coming in for a shot
fell heavily and knocked his right leg
against the boards.

 

As a result he broke his right ankle.
Although the pain must have been intense ‘‘Cappy” smiled broadly as he
was carried from the ice.

 

 

The break was all the tougher as
“Cappy was eagerly looking forward
to the game with Acadia. Ite many
friend; of ‘‘Car,° wil! be glac to learn
that he is “doing nicely, and should
be up and around betcre !cng

 

 

EATON’S

 

Gaionia Branded Lines Are
Popular With Men Everywhere

Below are listed a few of the outstanding values offered in EATONIA clothes
and furnishings for men which are truly representative of the many lines
(including shirts, ties, socks, suspenders, etc.) which carry the

EATONIA slogan—‘‘Good Value IN GOOD MERCHANDISE.”’
J
Vien’s
Saionia Suits

25.00

The new EATONIA suits prove definitely that style can
be bought at a moderate price.
new Spring suits, backed by good tailoring and offered
at a price that makes them now, more than ever, the best
They are new.
dash. They are the sort of models that will appeal to
young men who know correct style and wear it.
of good weoilens in new and distinctive colorings and
patterns that will be fashionable this Spring.
double breasted models for men and young men.

Priced At,
Each

regwar value obtainable.

4.50

They offer a choice of

Sizes 6 5-8 to 7 3-8.

éatonia

Pair

calf leather.

EATON 'S—Main Floor.

 

Priced At,

'
66 0
Thei t styli fortable fit SIX F A
eir smart styling, comfortable
and good workmanship make them the KIND’ ?
best regular value in Town at their
price Smart blucher styles in black CHARLIE RUGGLES

Eaton's Second Floor.

Ric

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

rm i a eee ee

A SCOTIA

 
 

panama a Ra a eT

March lst 19864

HOCKEY CHAMPIONSHIP

 

Meds. Win Over |Dal. Loses
Engineers 3-1 Th Rede In:

In a regular fixture of the InterfHockey League played at the Forum
last Tuesday, Medicine defeated Engineering 3 goals to 1. Due to the poor
ice the match was slow and ragged and
only flashes of good hockey were pro
Last Thursday evening at Studley
basketball fans saw the biggest upset

duced. of the season when the Wanderers
About midway in the first canto| downed Dalhousie on collegian terriDon Christie opened the scoring for|tory by a six point margin. The

Meds when he beat Morrison on a nice
pass from Lou Ryan. The Engineers
led by Waugh and Petrie broke through
but could’t beat Begg.

In the second chapter Waugh evened up the score on a nice pass from
Petrie. Both teams then turned on
the steam but no further scores were
made in this period, Play roughened
up a bit with Menzie of the Boilermakers handing out some stiff body checks.

In the third frame Meds netted two
goals the first on a beautiful end to
end rush by Miller the second on a nice
combination play in which Miller and
Bud Peters figured.

Wanderers with sensational shooting,
masterful checking, and lightning-fast
breaks, smashed their way to a brilliant 35-29 win to put themselves in a
first place tie with Dalhousie for the
league leadership. Dalhousie must win
her game with the Y. M. C. A. at Studley tonight in order to place in a possible playoff. Dal’s new combination
of Crease, Bauld, and Ralston worked
fairly well but had tough luck on shots.
Sensational shooting by Bob Goudey
plus the perfect checking of Don Bauld
by Harvey Harris gave Wanderers a
well deserved victory, It was the first
league game Dathousie has ever lost
on home ground. A rally by Dal in
the final ten minutes kept the crowd
on its feet but when the whistle blew
Dal trailed by six points.

 

 

Smart Exhibition.
cn The first started fast with Ralston
missing an easy one from close in and
Goudey scored for the Reds. Harris
added a free throw but quick baskets
by Musgrave and Ralston gave Dal a
4-8 lead. Goudey scored but Doug
Crease tied the score at 5—ail with a
free throw. Goudey then heaved in
two miraculous shots from impossible
positions and Musgrave and Crease
tallied to tie the count at 9—all but
four baskets by the Reds gave them a
17-9 lead. Ralston then scoredtwice
but after a time out the Wanderers
scored thrice to lead by 23 to 13 at
half time.

 

Tiger Rally Falls Short.
The second period was the most exciting 20 minutes of ball played here
this season and kept a large crowdina
constant uproar. Piers and Harris
scored immediately for the Wanderers
but Bauld countered with a sensational heave from centre. Goudey then
scored twice and Young sank a long
cne from centre to give the Reds a
lead of 17 points, 33-17, with only ten
minutes to go. At this point the Tigers launched a fighting comeback which
netted 13 points tothe Reds 2. Bauld
and Gladstone scored six baskets and
Anderson sank a foul goal. For a
time it seemed that Dal might cvertake
their opponents but Young counted to
put the game on ice, It was Dal’s
second loss of the season in six starts,
both losses being adn:inistered by the
Reds, 28 to 27 and 35-29.
Vic Regan and Harold Hill refereed.
WANDERERS:—Piers 6, Woodworth, Goudey 12, Doyle, Young 8,
Grant, Harris 3, Kerr 2, Mann.
DALHOUSIE:—Bauid 9, L. Crease,
D. Crease 8, Ralston 6, Fairstein,
Ciadstone 6, Musgrave 4, Anderson 1.

Qe

Dal. Cubs Win

Over Wanderers

 

Style is the basis of these

They have
Tailored

Single and

The Cubs last Thursday brought
their string of wins to four by administering defeat to the Wanderers Intermediates in a ragged exhibition by a
score of 29 to 21. ‘‘Chuck”’ Lorway
was the star of the game and the only
reason Dalhousie emerged victors.
As passing goes, the Reds had it all over

CAPITOL

OPNEING SATURDAY

 

Oxfords
4.50

     
       
         
   
  

Sizes 6 to 11. MARY BOLAND
W. C. FIELDS
ALISON SKIPWORTH
GEORGE BURNS

GRACIE ALLEN
Six Aces in one deck
the cards are stacked for
a good time!

 
 

 

 

Dalhousie Loses Playoff
Tilt With Acadia 3-2

Hoop Game!Lau, Frosh and

Arts Win Games

The Interfaculity hoop race tightened up last week with Law now in first
place, and Freshmen, Arts and Medicine in second position. Dentistry tock
a victory cyier Commerce but then,
who couldn’t?

Law 24—Theology 21.

Law barely eked out a hard-earned
victory by a three point margin over
Theology. Law opened the scoring
and held a slight lead throughout the
game. Law led 12 to 8 at half time.
Beginning the second they increased
the lead to 8 points, but Tneology got
going and rallied within a single point
but Law sank another score to win
to 21. Law will miss the services of
Lorway, who scored L0 points, and who
is now ineligible for Interfaculty competition.

LAW :—Mugez2h 4, Smith 2, Lorway
10, Thompson, Miller 6, McCulloch 2,
Murray.

THEOLOGY :—Marston 2, Watts,
Thompson 9, McIver, McLeod 6,
Mitcheil 2, McQueen 2.

Freshmen 34—-Medicine 28

In a fast, well-played exhibition the
yearlings took the measure of the
league, leading Meds by a score of 34—
28.

The Frosh outscored the Meds 18
to 7 in the first, period and the Meds
second period rally was not quite good
enough.

FRESH MEN:—Gardner 2, Kitz 15,
Cameron, Gosse 2, Greenberg, Stewart
14, Carroll, Ross.

MEDICINE:—Young §, Krebs,
McDonald, MacLellan 9, Epstein 4,
Donohue 3, Christie 4, Shandalov.

Arts 61—Engineers 17.

A fast-moving Arts & Science outfit scored a 61 to 17 victory over aweak
Engineers outfit. Weitz with 19 and
Simon with 18 were high scorers while
Petrie scored 10 points for the tape—
slingers. The first period score was
28 to 9. .

ARTS:—Weitz 19, Simon 1£, Shenfold 12, McKeigan 5, Arab 2, Cassell 5.

Wolfville Team to Meet University
of N. B. for Maritime College Title
Next Week.

Wolfville, Feb. 27—By defeating
Dalhousie 3-2 in a rather listless game
of hockey in the University Rink here
tonight, Acadia won the Nova Scotia
intercollegiate hockey championship
and qualified to meet U. N. B. forthe
Maritime title in a game to be played
either at Saint John or Moncton next
Saturday night. The game was not a
huge success from the fan’s point of
view. Dalhousie was weak on attack,
and during the whole third period Acadia was content to rest with her lead,
shooting the puck far and wide on
every opportunity, evidently saving
themselves for the series with Truro
in the Maritime senior championship
round.

The first score of the game was made
by Jack Buckley, who was far and away
the best man on the ice for Dalhousie.
He picked up the puck at centre, stickhandled his way through, and flipped a
shot behind Tedford. Toward the
end of the period, Smith took his own
rebound to even the score, and the first
period ended with the score 1-1. The
only score of the second period went to
DeWolfe, who stickhandled his way
through and put Acadia up one by draw
ing Kyte from his nets. From then
on Acadia was never in real danger of
losing the game, while Kyte, in the
nets, made many splendid saves.

In the third period DeWolfe scored
again, this time on a nice pass from
Mac Millan on the wing, sénding a shot
on which Kyte had no chance whatever WDalhousie’s second score came
when Ellis took a pass at the Acadia
blueline, stickhandled his way through
and sank a nice goal. From then on
Acadia played defensive hockey, and
were never in danger of being scored on.
A stellar game for the collegians was
played by both Lawrence on defense
who was responsible for the breaking
up of play after play by the Dalhousie
team. The referee was Roy Prowse,
of Amherst.

ACADIA—Goal,

Lawrence;

Tedford; defense,
MacCausland, Stanfield;
forwards, MacMillan (capt.), Sanford,
Leon, Shaw, De Wolfe, MacLean, Smith.
DALHOUSIE-—-Goal, Kyte; defense
Connor, Bent; forwards, Bryant, EIlis, Cameron, Cohen, Grant, Stanfield,

ENGINEERS:—Petrie 10, McRae Buckley.—Halifax Chronicle.

1, Williamson, Isner 4, Menzie 2.

Dal but were weak shooting and unable to get close in due to the effective
checking of the college forward fine.
Dal lost many opportunities to score
when the defence delayed the advance
of the ball by dribbling , thus losing the
advantage of a quick break.

The Reds opened the scoring but
Dal counted twice and soon led 6 to 4.
A basket and four foul shots by Lorway gave Dala 12 to 4 margin but the
visitors garnered three baskets as the
period ended 12 to 10.

The second opened with three baskets by Dal but the Reds rang up seven
points without a return and the score
read 19 to 17 for the collegians. Lorway’s excellent work around the basket
won the game for Dalhousie and the
final score was 29 to 21.
DALHOUSIE—Sullivan 2, MacLelian, B. Stoddard 6, C. Stoddard, MacDonald 2, Lorway 17, Simmonds 2.
WANDERERS:—Webb 4, Doyle 4.
Keshion, Murley 4, Mann, MacDougall
Mitchell 7,

 

GARRICK

FRI. SAT.

‘“‘Her

Sweetheart’”’

—with—
LIONEL BARRYMORE
MARIE DRESSLER

MON. to THURS.

“Little Women’’

Starring

Katherine Hepburn

 

 

Council Candidates

The Freshmen, Sophomores, and
Juniors all held meetings last Tuesday
in the Arts Building to select their
nominees for‘the forthcoming Student
Council Elections, The) Sophomores
and Juniors each have four students
ready, from which aumber two representatives will chosen from each
The Freshmen have chosen
two, one of whom will represent Class
'37 in next years Council, The president of each of the three classes were
among those nominated.

The following is a list of the candidates.

Class ’35—Beth Atherton, Jean Begg
Mitt Musgrave, and Frank Goudge.

be

class,

Class '36—Margaret Kerr, Ruth
Sumner, Don Saunderson, George
Murphy.

Class ’°37—Gordon Thompson, Henry Ross.

 

 

CASINO

Wednesday to Friday
February 28 to March 2

LILLIAN GISH
RONALD YOUNG

‘HIS DOUBLE LIFE

Saturday to Tuesday
March 3-5-6

‘Channel Crossing’

Starring the Great English Actor

MATHESON LANG

    

 
