 

Dal: Debaters Coming Events

poe n Decision | Of The Week

  

8—S. C. M. Banauet.
Election of officers
Green Lantern,

6 o’clock.

Thurs. 8—Boxing Workout.

  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
   

poh | Thurs.

6 allie one of the first international detes held at this University for some
a and in perhaps the first debate
held locally” in which a University. of

Tues. 13—Interfaculty Hock
_ the size and reputation of Harvard has ey, Law vs. Medicompeted, Dalhousie came off the vic- isl fleet)

tors ina debate held before an audience Wel) ¥4—-Munto Day. Glee

eee 500 persons — in the Dalhousie Club Program 8.15.

Is ee _ Gymnasium last Friday evening. The} Thurs. 15—Junior & Senior

ae subject was “Resolved that Hitlerism
is a Benefit to the German People,’’
and the representatives from Harvard
were upholding the affirmative ot the
solution. Harvard was represented
. YY Howard M. Lawn, of Long Branch,
neh New Jersey, and C. Lowell Harris,of
_ Omaha, ‘Nebraska; while Dalhousie
1 : was represented by J. Harrison Cleverf Be a land, of Dartmouth, N. S., and Irving
merc _ Rubens, of Brooklyn, New York.

te: Pie. ‘The Chairman of the affair was Dr.
ee ‘Dougal Mac,illivary, who did his best
: Bi to make the visitors feel at home in

fio

Dzence, Lore Nelson
Hotel 8.30.

Council Vote
To Abolish
Year Book

 

     
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
    
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
        
     
    
   

rf
- No Pharos, or The Light That Failed!
isthe title ot the latest chapter written
into the minutes of the Dalhousie Student’s Council when it voted by 7
to 3 to abolish the Year Book at
Sunday’s meeting. Since the meeting
held last week-end, rumours have been

introducing them to the large audience. |
rife that the end of Pharos was inevi:

| Bee wee: The: decision was rendered by an audire ea which was perhaps a trifle unes. _ fortunat Se nw ae

th Baeaslire slic of the resolutheir Pe aL eonetiously

table: student opinion swelled against
its continuance and a crescendo note
"| of disapproval was sounded when Uni‘I versity officials refused to indorse it.
A meeting was called Sunday, both
the editor and business manager being
called in and the caSe was reopened.
Mr. Archibald stated that the advertising had not been increased by any new
contracts and that while it was possible
to cut an additional four hundred dollars fron. the budget it would so cneapen the book astoruin sales. Mr. Allen;
cited the President's refusal to write |

; pai niversity ‘stui id | sup) ort in an argument on
cer However, since this was

a first itabeat for the affirmative,
_ Mr. Lawn, expressed happiness in being able to visit this part of Canada to
debate. He declared that Hitlerism
NG rm ea has benefited the German people, since
for the first time in the history of the
“ nation Germany has achieved complete
Te ee political unity. Also he opinioned,
a vs Hitlerism has saved the German people
Pile, ‘g “n' from the pressing danger of Com- munism, and the driving ideal of the
is at the present time is to secure
ee equality. for Germany with the other
. = Ee nations of the World. The Treaty of
ee ‘Versailles has kept the people of Ger_ many ina state of misery since the War
and Hitler hopes to lift the German
s people out of this miserable state.
_ The opening speaker for Dalhousie,
Mr. Cleveland, declared that the freedom of the German people has been
ae ae seriously hindered by the policies of the
a a i hie ‘Nazi party. Nationalism at the pres“it Se yi ent time is predominant in the country,
~ and anything of an international nature
i is rigorously suppressed. Hitler al_-_ most without exception places the inRe. _terests of the state ahead of those of the
ine ividuals making up the state, and
thi leads to a great deal of suppression
Ol personal freedom as well as a good
deal of persecution. His economic
; policy of isolation has stifled the trade
___ of the nation and for the first time in its
tory Germany has an unfavourable
pelos: His belligerent intermY is 3; also very key to

foreword, the refusal of the Dental Society to support the book, the feeling
among the majority of the students
against Pharos and said that a cheapened Year Book would reflect on the editors, the graduates and the University
as a whole. Council members arose
to speak against it on the grounds of
lack of money, lack of support by
the majority and as an unwise expenditure. After a brief and one-sided discussion the question was put and
Pharos was gently but firmly ushered
out of existence.

a
DELTA GAMMA DANCE.

The co-eds of Dalhousie again played
hostess at their Annual Ball at the
Nova Scotian Hotel, Wednesday, Feb
ruary 28th.

The guests, including the members of
the faculty and their wives, were received by Miss Mary Simmonds, president. of Delta Gamma, President and
Mrs. Carleton Stanley, and Miss Anna
McKeen.

About a hundred couples—the ‘‘dear
girls’ and the chosen pales tener dl
until two o'clock to the strains of the
ever pleasing and excellent music of |
Jerry and his boys.

 

public works, which will be of inestimable benefit to the country in future
years.

Irving Rubens, the concluding speaker for Dalhousie stated that Germany
was uMified in 1871 not in 1933 as the
_|affirmative had stated. There is no

I 2 atrocities amenetraiad by the
s in Germany have been greatly
ated, and for the great mass of
German people Hitlerism has
| it a new era of eee: _Gloom

ae. the ate: eine in
y, a struggle which had done a
7 I to stifle the industty: of the

at the present time. Also Hitler has
stifled the intellectual and scientific
development of the German people by
his persecution of many of the leading
The thinkers of the country. Finally there

| nt had decreased great has been a great alienation of World
. Hitler has under way | ‘opinion towards Germany since Hitler
ai ial Lh lan = ‘came into’ power, the speaker stated.

| al activity during 1933

 

  

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA March 8th, 1984

 

ELECTION RESULTS

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

CLASS ’35—-M. Musgrave 131; Frank Goudge 89.

CLASS ’ 35-—-Beth Atherton 135; Jean Begg 81.

CLASS ’36—-Ruth Sumner 148; Margaret Kerr 63.

CLASS ’36-—-Don Saunderson 125; George Murphy 95.

CLASS ’37—-Gordon Thompson 147; Henry Ross 73.

COMMERCE—Ted Crease 142; Lorne McLellan 74.

ENGINEERING~——Louis Petrie 124; Elmer Ball 71.

MEDICINE (Two reps.)——-Laurie Teasdale 78, Gerald LeBrun 67;
Jimmy Gray 65; Fred Whitehead 35.

LAW—2J. B. McEvoy 34; Horace Hanson 27.

DENTISTR Y--Lloyd Layton 10;Scotty Newman 8; Ken Cougle 2.

FRESHMAN REPRESENTATIVE—John Fisher 139; Hal Connor
92.

D. A. A. C. EXECUTIVE—President, George Thompson 198;

Vice-President, Ernie Richardson 174; Secy-Treasurer, Bob Mc
Lellan 160 (elected). Hal Connor 131, Don Bauld 122, Don Cam
eron 84, Vic Kyte 66, John Proctor 42.

GLEE CLUB EXECUTIVE—For President, Hal Taylor, 237,

Warren Beazley 180; for Vice-President, Martha Keniston 193,

Merle Purtill 133, Edith Nelson 90; for General Manager, Rudd

Hattie 240, Art Merkel 141; for Production Manager, Bob Weitz

259; Don Redmond 104, Bill Scott 66.

Glee Club Show |DalGraduate Gets
For Manro Night Appointment

 

 

 

No. 19

 

ANNOUNCED WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14TH.

 

MUNRO DAY WILL BE
CELEBRATED AS USUAL,
DAL COUNCIL DECIDES

A rejuvenated and remodelled Munro Dav is on the wav.
The Students Council which has lately changed its mind on the
year book has claimed the same privilege i in regard to Munro Day.
Ev en the date is changed, and the annual holiday will be observed

on Wednesday March 14th instead of Tuesday as originally
nounced.

 

an
 

Events are scheduled to begin on
time and to end on time and the series
will commence early in the afternoon.
Consult your nearest poster for the
time.

All the most approved numbers are
retained’ on this year’s programme.
Wrestling and boxing will delight admirers of this pastime, while basketball and badminton (as it should be
played) will delight the numerous devotees of these sports: An interesting

Lecturers

To Be Heard
In Dal Gym.

The National Council of Education
is at present sponsoring a series of ‘‘In
  
     
   
    
   
   
  
   
     
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
  

social liberty or civil rights in Germany |

Munro Day has been set for the 14th
of the month and Glee Club is doing,
its share to make the day a success.
The show which will be presented in the
evening will be in the nature of a musi
cal comedy of two acts with acollege
setting and is under the able direction
of Mr. J. P. Connolly, The show offers
splendid opportunities to Art Long,
who plays the leading singing role, and
to Connie Jost who plays opposite him.
Ruth Skaling lends her personality to
the role of a typical college girl, while
Bob Donohue is alternately comic and
tragic as the eccentric professor.
Edith Nelson, Charlie Anderson, Martha Keniston, and Mort Goldberg
complete this all star cast. Fran Gardner will sing one of the most luring
waltzes of the day, ‘‘Blue Hours,’’ and
Flo Kenniston will give her interpretation of ‘‘Hamilet”’ in a highly dramatic
style. A wistful touch of Lewis Carroll is added to the show by Bill Scott
and Dot Vernon rendering a scene from
““Through- the Looking .Glass.’’ Jim
Gray does the introduction and this will
be the first time that this year’s president has appeared behind the footlights.

The orchestra for the presentation
has been organized by Laurie Hart and
should form the basis of a permanent
orchestra for next year. This Munro
Day performance will be the biggest attempted by the Glee Club this year and
will officially complete the club's activities for the year; however, there will
in all probability be a. Convocation
presentation of some nature.

At the close of the show on Munro
Day, the Dramatic Shield will be presented to the winners of the competition
and also the Glee Club D’s for the year
will be awarded. The newly elected
slate of officers will be introduced and
Glee Club will be off on a new tack
under a new skipper and crew.

. oer s Glee C f ;
Don’t forget fhe Glee Club on Munro! per—anyway they come and that’s all

Day—8.15 at the Gym. Be there for

the biggest day of the college year.

Annual Meeting
Of The S.C.M.

Programme—supper, election of officers
annual report. varied musical programmie.

Time—Thursday, March 8, 6 p. m.

Place—Main Dining Room, Green
Lantern.

— i

SORORITY PARTY

And now the last Sorority dance is
over and gone. The Sigma Theta Pi’s
held their formal at the Lord Nelson
on_Friday night.

The party got under way before nine
o'clock and lasted until the Hall girls
were forced to run,

| ternational Weeks,” whereby outstanding representatives of other countries
are brought to the principal Canadian
centres. The scheme of the tours is
| founded-on the conception that if there
is to be Peace there must be understand
ing between nations, and this can only
come by education. In furtherance of
its avowed policy to promote international understanding the Council is
bringing to Canada these various national groups, who will present to Canadians a knowledge of the history and
geography, the racial, social and economic qualities, and the ways, manners
and problems of other lands and their
peoples.
“Italy Week,”’ the second of the
series, is opening in Halifax at this time.

As announced recently, T. A. ‘“Tommy’ Goudge, when he
studied here and now doing post graduate work for a Ph. D. at
accepted a position as associate professor of Philosophy at Waterloo College, a branch of Western University.
The position will be permanent ifMr.
Goudge cares to make it so, consisting
of lecturing in three classes in psychology and one in logic. He was chosen
from a group of 39 submitted by Prof.
Brett, head of Philosophy Department at Toronto, because of the merit
of his previous work, and will continue
to study for his Ph. D. inter-murally.

Mr. Coudge graduated from Dalhousie
in 1931, obtaining his M.A. in philo
well-known

Toronto, has

sophy a year later. W hile here, he/ The Schedule of lectures open to Dalwas twice on the Student's Council) housie students is made public elseonce as secretary-treasurer, did. edi
iP where. The Italian group is composed
‘ , a7 A 2 harc - .

torja work on the Gazette and Pharos | of four persons, Don Mario Colonna

played senior basketball and intermed- and Commendatore Luigi Villari, who

late basketball and ‘was a Malcolm} are nominees of the National Council,

Honour student in 1931.

inees of the Royal Italian Government.

So

Delta Gamma To
Hold Annual Soon

Delta Gamma will shortly bring its
year to a.close with mass meeting in
the gymnasium to elect the officers of
next year.

According to the custom of the past
few years nominations will be called
for a several days previous to the meeting, in order to avoid confusion and
duplication of effort.

The Secretary-treasurer of this year
automatically becomes president next

and Signorina Amy Bernardy and Signor Eugenio F. Croizat, who are nomDon Mario Colonna is a member of

an old and distinguished Italian family
which for centuries has given its members to high places in public service.
During the war Don Mario served as a
cavalry officer with both the English
and the Italian armies. He has also
spent some time in the diplomatic service at the Italian Embassy in London.
He is an outstanding authority on the
economic development of the modern
Corporate State and is the author of
a well-known volume on that subject.

Commendatore Villari has devoted a

year and a new sect-treas. must be| good part of his life to literature and
elected from this year’s sophomere | journalism, and is the author of several!
class.

books on political and economic problems and on historical subjects. From
1906 udtil the War he was engaged in
the

This seems to be the one meeting of
the year when most of the girls turn out
—perhaps they come to get a free sup- Italian diplomatic and consular
services. During the War he served as
that matters. a cavalry officer in Italy,

The other officers beside the secretarytreasurer are the first and second vicepresidents in charge of debating and
athletics respectively. Then there
the secretary treasurer of D. G. A. C.

After that the managers of Basketball, Ground Hockey, Ice Hockey,
Badminton and tennis will be voted for.

Each girl has one vote and everyone
should come and cast it.

Neither D. G. A. C. or Delta Gamma have been particularly active this
year and it is hoped that a plan may be
effected whereby thev can
more useful and beneficial.

Delta Gamma has an annual dance,
a tea dance and an initiation each vear
and apparently the high ideals of its
founders have been forgotten and it
not forgotten, at least almost entirely
ignored. ‘Trials for a debate were held
this year and five girls turned out.
Everyone should try and go to the final
meeting and vote, not for their best
friends but for a girl who can fill the
position in a responsible manner.

later being attached to the Italian expedition to
Macedonia. a period of three
years he was a member of the staff of
the League of Nations Secretariat.
Since 1922 Signor Villari has returned
to his old work at the Foreign Office
and has taken part in several international conferences.

For

is

Of recent years he
has spent a considerable part of each
year in England.

Signorina Bernardy is one of the outstanding women scholars of Italy, well
known both as an author and journalist.
For some years she was Professor of
[talian at Smith College, Massachusetts. She has travelled widely on
the North American Continent.

Signor Croizat is an Italian lecturer
of international repute and has assembled an outstanding and important collection of masterpieces of Italian
Scenery, Painting and Sculpture. He
has made a great contribution to the
true appreciation of Art by devoting a
number of years to perfecting the production of slides in photographic color.

become

Lest ee

 

exhibition of gymnastics will be given
by Mr. Stirling the popular physica]
director.

The tea dance a really popular number Is now assured through the interest
and generosity of the Alumnae and
Alumni Societies who have undertaken
to sponsor this phase of the activities.
This action will be generously applauded by all the students.

The evening activities will featire a
short address of welcome by the President of the University. Presentation
of Athletic and Glee Club D’s will follow with resumes of the activities of
various campus societies. At this
time the winner of the Malcolm Honor
Award will be announced.

The final Glee Club show of the yea
will be presented by the executive. A
stellar programme has been arranged
and the Glee Club officials are attempting a two hour show—no more—ne
less.

With events handled on time the .
will be an opportunity for a good night
dance to close the activities of the day.

Admission will Students
Council tickets. These must bear the
genuine signature of the person presenting the same. Each ticket will
admit a couple. To avoid the disappointment of paying an admission come
with your own ticket.

Munro Day is coming.
a full day holiday. Wednesday March
4th, activities commencing early in
the afternoon—at the Studley Gymnasium, Let's all co-operate to make
Munro Day a real success.

be by

Remember

 

Freshette Notes

Charlotte Crosby was quite worried
when she heard that the ‘‘Copps”’ were
going to chaperone the Sigma Chi dance
Only by dint of great persuasion was
she convinced that policemen were not
allowed.

One of the freshettes who has not
been able to attend parties for some
time, rushed out the other night in her
bedroom llipper S.
ed.

Times have chang
Mr. Joe Connolly has made quite an
impression on the girls because of his
acting ability, They wish to advise
any eager pupil to come to the Musical
Comedy practices and see how clinches
are really done.

LS

By virtue of this invaluable process
the actual picture is presented on the
screen in its original and authentic
colours. He brings to Canada a collection of these remarkable slides, with
which he proposes to illustrate his lec tures.

 
  
  

Ae _ fe ey

EDITORIAL STAFF.
Editors.

 
     
     
    
    
 
   
   
 
 
    
  
  
     
  
 

W. a B. A.
x B. 2543.
Associates.

Borden Stoddard,
. L. Dubinsky.
. W. Burchell.

ss NEWS DEPARTMENT.

| | EDITOR—HARRY SUTHERLAND, B5487.
eric + - Associates: Douglas Crease. James MacIntosh,
eg Ge Arthur Merkel. E. Arab

oo SPORTS |
EDITOR—TED CREASE, 85737.
aes ii. Associates: Donald P. Cameron.

ete a rer eT ks: Ruth Skaling.

mt _ GIRLS EDITOR: MARTHA KENISTON.

Pe Os Associates: Mary Simmonds.

nae - Merie Purtill, 
Ree Seer et BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.

ss Manager Circulation Assistant Manager
DAVID, H. HOLLAND. C.R.MACDONALD. HOWARD c OXLEY, B.A.
eh 26

a,

ots
Ra ast
,

=

 

 

Bey rete t ke, | PHAROS PASSES
eet W HILE many will regret the decision of the Council of the
_~ +Y¥Y¥ Students to suspend publication of Dalhousie’s Year Book
- this term, they willat the same time see the wisdom of the move and
commend the Council for their action. A comparative innovation
= onthe Dalhousie Campus, Pharos, begun five years ago, has since
___-yearly left the student body finances in a crippled state and was
indeed curtailing many other extra-academic activities at this Uni_ versity. The pleasure of the graduates in possessing this record
of their achievements is a barren one indeed, when it is obtained
at the cost of reduced grants for athletic, debating, literary, and
__-.__ other activities at Dalhousie. Though in past years it has been a
fairly valuable and well-edited publication, its cost has been out of
all proportion to its usefulness. The elimination of Pharos this
_-—-—sr year may only be temporary, but it will likely be permanent unless
*-———s there is a much greater fund to draw from then there has been in
the past two years.
———--—s At the same time the Council, in view of the Year Book develop
   

St i 4 ments, have seen fit to restore the originally planned celebration of
‘Munro Day at Dalhousie, which will be observed next Wednesday.
vaaieue 4 Barring the unnecessary two-minute speeches by holders of college

oun

    
   
    
   
   
    
   
  
    
    
  
  
  
     
      
    
    
    
 
   
 

flices, which last year seemed so de trop, this practice, inaugurated

term, serves a useful purpose in tending to establish that soli
ity among the students which is sadly lacking at Dalhousie.

a

_ THE McGILL QUESTIONNAIRE.

. The attempted issuance of a questionnaire on the McGill Cami >< = ,pus by the McGill Labor Club has provoked more or less comment
in Canadian college circles. The questionnaire contained several
questions which were held objectionable by the McGill Dean of
_ Arts, who banned the circular on the ground, probably, that it
suggested immorality. The questions at issue were the propriety or
impropriety of some of the queries on the questionnaire, and whether the action of the McGill Dean in banning the questionnaire was
justifiable. Most college students believe that education includes
assimilation of knowledge covering the field of morals, ethics, religion, and politics, and he would be a sorry student who had not
Pe formed some opinions on these matters.
re." While the action of the McGill Dean can doubtless be questiona ; ed because it infringes on the right of freedom of thought and speech,
——s it. might well be justified on the ground that the objectionable questions were subversive to morals. The results of such a questionnaire, if made public, might or might not convey an impressive of
6, immoral opinion at McGill, but more likely the replies would be
_ taken for what they are worth—the immature conceptions of a
group as yet in the formative period. But surely no one should
question their right to formulate opinions and to give expression
to them on any question even involving morality.

re he \

i Round Table Club

fa ee

 

How it might
have appeared

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 

aes; The Round Table Club held its regu5 lar fortnightly meeting Sunday night,
Feb. 22 at the Murray Homestead.
ee The guest speaker was Mr. Bishop,
_-—~—s manager of the Capitol Theatre, who
spoke on censorship of the movies.
¢ Mr. Bishop compared the rules of censorship ‘in Nova Scotia, Quebec, and
Ontario,’ pointing out how differently

_——s they cut pictures in each, and how this
_-~—~--—s interferes witn the showing in other
a provinces. This could be remedied he
said, by a central dominicn board.
__-Mr. Bishop was able to illustrate his

ee _ points from first-hand experience and
afterwards entered into an informal
___ dliscussion with the members, At the
close of the discussion there was a short
. ae business meeting. |

ile: >
ea
r


If Leuconoe had consulted Mae West
instead of Q. H. Flaccus “Tu ne quaesieris, scire nefas—’’(Horace: Bk. 1,
Ode XI).

Why all this awful stew about
How long you've got to live?
a, There’s nothing you can do about

— It—give, girl give!

For life comes hot and hurrying

Till zip!—and you are dead!

So what’s the good of worrying

Your dumb, blonde head?

     

‘er 
Oh, better to be snatching at
The boons of board and bed

Than sit around a-scratching at
Your blonde, dumb head!

 

_ isn’t so bad but quite impossible. Al
possible here. The

And better to be sinning in
“A gown of silk and satin
Than sit around a-chinning in
_ This goddam Latin!

  

sy

_ Morrie Ryskind (New Yorker)

| College

ae

  
 

Canadian

   

Comment

  

The new editor of the Toronto Varsity has unbosomed himself of a lot of

S ’
suppressed emotions. He doesn’t be-| dents has often been sought at Dal- on
lieve in lectures nor is he in sympathy | pousie, and in the absence of a residence | ler’s vicious attack upon me in the

with examinations.
to be an educational atheist.

of the old gods that have ruled

the destinies of higher education for un- | 6g out that there was one in the Murray
told ages. Lectures, he says, are 40) Homsestead, it was always a most unanarchronistic excrescence corrupting | comfortable and forbidding place; now
| the normal functions of the university | it has been assigned to the political
life. He howls with rage at the neces-) science department which uses it to
sity of attending to the obtuse meand-} \rangte over the futility of the last war
erings of antique pedagogues while) 244 the new inevitability of the next.
spring is in the air. In place of lec-| The college might supply us with a re
tures he would substitute a system of

supervision by the professors in the] comfortable in between these playful
various classes and also printed lecture | , assacres.
notes. Thus giving students and pro-| .oujd not nec.ssarily be a big room,
fessors ample opportunity to develop | hut it should be comfortable; even if it
their “creative dormant creative POW-| were only large enough for the senior
ers.” As regards examinations we €f-| cjass, that in itself would be a step in
dorse the issue. Examinations in most | the right direction. In a few weeks
subjects can be unconditionally abolish-| +}. senior class will assemble and a
ed. Lectures, on the other hand, can valedictorian will breathe some parting
at least be slept through but very few signs Ader the happy hours we have
have the temerity to sleep through ex-| .pent, the conversations, the social and

ams.

NAZI OUTLOOK.

The following is the second instal
ment of a letter by a German Nazi to 4) tinue to be so until we get a residence,
student in Graduate Studies at Toronto. yet even so it can be remedied a great
The letter itself, with its ridiculously %7-) qoay by a well-furnished common room
rational condemnation of the Jews must) .4.4 4 few
damn the Nasi movement in the eyes Of | There the studentscan read an talk and

the students of this University.

When Hitler came into power one of
his first steps was to stop the progress
of the Jews. In this he did no more
than fulfil an act of self-defence in keeping the Jewish blood and influence from
poisoning the German race physically
and morally. For it is no secret for

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

In fact he appears] it would fulfil a long-felt need. Such a

He is room could be fitted up in the Arts
determined to destroy the worship building or

 
 

eae

Views an

Abuse

   

 

The Editors

The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette.

 

A COMMON ROOM

Dear Sir:

A common room for the male stu- 3
I have just been reading Mr. Chand
columns of your paper. Although his
letter purports to be a defence of his
brother-in-iniquity, Mr, Ex-Doe, it
really amounts to a scurrilous attack
upon me personally. This in itself is
of little consequence—my back is broad
and I harbour no fear of Lilliputians—
but I am deeply concerned that the
discussion of the grave social question
of race-betterment which Mr. Stewart
and Mr. MacDonald have sustained so
ably, and to which I have endeavoured
to make a contribution, should peter
out in a splurge of abuse from the pen
of Mr. Chandler.

I am at a loss to explain the extravagance—not to say the indecent suggestiveness—of Mr. Chandler’s language, his antipathy to Pine Hill, and
his disrespectful reference to Dr. Mackinnon. It was not thus that he learned the manners of a Christian gentleman while he was a student for the
ministry here in Halifax. From Pine
Hill he fled to the protecting skirts of
the good ladies of the I. O. D. E., but
little did they imayine that they were
nourishin, such a nasty child.

Motives of self-respect prevent me
from beating Mr. Chandler at his own
game of journalistic obcenity—surely
this is not the only way to scotch a
blatherskyte! I leave Mr. Chandler
in sole possession of his strategic position in the mire, but he would be well
advised on a future occasion to recollect that he is not the only one who can
use the whiplash of personal ridicule
to advantage.

The unscientific and flippant manner
in which Mr. Chandler treats the subject of sterilization makes it very difIn the library, there is a tarnished | ficult to answer his arguments (If he

the gym with little

expense, Although it might be point
treat of some sort where we can be

What we have in mind

 

intellectual companionship we have enjoyed. ‘‘Together we have come to
another milestone in our lives, etc. .”’
Together when? Such a ceremony is
nothing short of farcical and will con
semi-popular magazines.

smoke like gentlemen instead of the
present practice in the Arts basement
which is most reminiscent of a group
of hoboes hunched over park benches.

A CLASS GIFT.

anyone who wishes to understand, that brass plaque bearing inscriptions of|hasany! Can any one tellme?) Isay

the Jewish progress is due to a great the gifts to the library of former graduextent to the fact that moral hesitations | @ting classes.
do not hinder the Jew in his undertak-| Classes apparently felt they had got
ings with the same force as they hind- something out of their courses—they
er the white man. This may be the | Were grateful in a pecuniary way, to the
result of education, but race and re- college which had tutored then.

ligion have undoubtedly a lot to do
with it.
Hitler has broken the Jewish in
fluence. He does not wish to make war. | have been content to take what they
He has confessed this solemnly and pub- | 49 and to give only what is dragged
licly. He has never touched the rights from them at registration. They have
Protest- | left nothing that future students might
ants, Catholics and Jews attend to their find a better equipped university, nothreligious services as ever but he has ing to help it compete with other col
of any religious confession.

disbanded the clubs of the godless.
As for the dressing of young and old
in the brown, national socialistic garb,

referred to in the paper of which you something worth while behind him;

sent me a clipping, it is true that even
children, young boysand girls above ten
years, are seen to march along in-this
most catching and smart uniform—
but there is nothing of preparing for
war in it. Hitler is not the first man
who realized the fascinating power of
the uniform as also did General Booth
when he founded the Salvation Army
or General Powell who brought the
Pathfinder Movement into effect. Nobody, however, thought of considering
this as a menace to peace. Only when
Germany, which had been kicked about
as a football by the Versailles politicians, did the same, the Jews, and those
who were under their invisible yoke
cried and pointed their fingers to this
Germany. Hitler is right in reaching
as far out with nis propaganda as to
take hold of the very youth, the future of the country. Many of the
older generation cannot catch the chief
aim of Hitler’s propaganda and programme: ,

He wishes to educate every man and
woman to the sense of personal responsibility. The class of the wealthy
people ‘‘beati possidentes’’ must be
made aware of the fact that they cannot sit upon their property and see others starve and slave while the poor man,
having nothing more than his bodily
strength or skilled capacities, is not to
live*on the alms of others but must
work and produce something useful
for the benefit of another. The workman has, however, the obligation to
work, but the capitalist under the eves
of the government, has the obligation
to create opportunities for all men to do
honest work and to see the work of the
simple man just as highlv esteemed as
that of a mightv brainworker or high
financier.

With regard to the drilling of young
men there is a natural necessity for it.

  
  
  
  
 
 
   

unscientific because his repeated references to “this. gelding business,”’
“chasing after mental defectives,’’ and
“gentle knives,’ all suggest that his
knowledge of the subject is derived
from personal experiences in the ancestral farm yard in P. E. I. (Is not all
hisimagery drawn from the farm yard?)
Not only does he lecture from the barnyard fence, but he implies the use of
methods which any scientific stock raiser knows are at least twenty-five years
out of date. I suspect that a modern
minded herd of cattle would throw up
their tails in derision should they stray
past while his lecture was in progress.
How presumptive of him, therefore,
to address his drivelling remarks to an
audience of intelligent human beings?

May I set Mr. Chandler a good example (would that he could profit by it)
by closing with some cogent evidence
on the question of sterilization? [|
shall base what I am about to say on
an article by W. S. Hutton, M. D.,
President of the Eugenics Society of
Canada, which appeared recently in

The students of these

The fashion has long passed outof
style, for there have been no additions
since before the war. Recent classes

leges.
It may be said that, on leaving the
college, the Student is too poor to leave

it is argued that when he has made
“his pile’ then, perhaps , it will be time
to talk of giving. Unfortuntely, by
that time, love for college has cooledwitness the failure of the alumni society to pay for the gymnasium. The
time for the graduate to make a gift
is when he most realizes that he has
been done for him—at graduation. the Winnipeg Free Press.

Dalhousians have been very lazy Here are a few facts:
in supporting their college; they have 1. Any social worker of wide exbeen too dependent on grants from Car- | perience will tell you that not only are
negi and other philanthropists. But,|the feeble minded reproducing their
these becoming scarcer, it may be that| kind, but that they are reproducing
they will have to assume some respon- | themselves faster than the rest of the
sibility. There have been some at-| population. The fertility of 3000 distempts— the graduating class of '32|tinguished Canadians in Who's Who
established a fund in memory of one of | jis just 2.42 children per family. The
their members; last year’s class promis- | fertility of the families from which came
ed a walk to the gym, but has done | the 500 inmates of the Hospital for the
nothing concrete about it yet. Class|Feeble-minded at Orillia, Ontario, av’34, has however not even considered | erages 8.7 children per family.
the idea of leaving anything to the} 2. Feeble-mindedness is directly incollege. With exams posted and life-|herited. The British Government's
officers elected, the year is pretty well| Committee on Sterilization state that
over. Yet they will- be remembered, | of a total of 3,733 children examined
as the others, only by a picture on the | whose parents—either mother or father
wall of the Arts Building. —were defectives, 45% were found to

. : be subnormal.

‘Continued on page 3.) 83. Sterilization of all the feeble
minded would result in the elimination
of 50 %of the feeble minded in the next
generation. This statement is made by
Dr. M. T. Macklin of the University of
Western Ontario in the Feby 34 Number
of the Canadian Medical Journal.

4. The increasing effectiveness of
social agencies to-day has reversed the
biological law of the survival of the
fittest. The tendency of modern philanthrophy is to provide every opportunity for maximum reproductio
among the mentally deficient. Only a
sane sterilization policy can right the
balance.

It is evidence of this kind that is
daily convincing thinking men and wo
 

At the last meeting of the Party in
Nurnberg there were assembled more
than 800,000 men. Such an enormous
crowd could never have been handled
without being first drilled in their
march and formation.

The Jews say they are soldiers, but
they are soldiers without rifles or arms
or machine-guns or cannons, and
France with her coloured armv of more
than 2,000,000 soldiers forced to military service in her colonies possesses
more quick-firing guns and motorized
cannons than Germanv is allowed to
have hand rifles.

 

 

d Letters To

‘a a ; 3 aA 4 :
; : tp, Yin - ar an ac re : +
» , Fe : 4 ie + as = a . - a *
@éce Ph Me tn oh tke Bt bs ak De Cee pO teat t Sp Neh
heer ies ei ic oa he Ne 98 ets P.O Sa ee a) ve

March 8th. 1984

ats

 

      

CARICATURES

With Reverence
For None

 
   

PROFESSOR MAXWELL

Professor Maxwell is the mighty
atom of the Round Table Club. He
beams pleasantly on all its members,
wielding innumerable cigarettes even
as King Arthur waved a sword. Heis
a little man who wears big ties and big
collars which half conceal him from the
vulgar eye. His subject is economics,
but he is extremely wary about committing himself on any problem. His
students, though their minds are
aroused by his discussions, feel somewhat uneasily that they come out by
that same door wherein they went.
He surprised us at Delta Gamma by
almost rivalling Prof. Adshead in terpsichorean antics, but won an easy
victory when Wilson dragged away his
erring partner just before supper. His
favorite expression in a close argument
is ‘‘Well, in the long run’’—and students are perplexed as to whether this
means the King’s Road Race or an obscure economic theory. His hobby is
walking’and he can often be seen hiking
in the park, at other times he grows
bulbs and tulips which he secretly
thinks are superior to Bennett’s roses.

DR. C. WILSON SMITH.

One of the secrets Murray Homestead “keeps well is the activity of Dr
C. Wilson Smith, but from its precincts
and through his guiding hands come the
teachers who will some day mould the
lives of little future Dalhousians, He
believes in intelligence tests and college spirit, both lacking at Dalhousie,
the first fortunately for the students,
the second for the city of Halifax,
Head of the Education Department, he
is both bombastic and dogmatic, and at
times uses theological terms without
the customary theological distinction.
His bark, however, is worse than his
bite, he has a kind heart. Like Griffin he is possessed of a potent-lodking
moustache which is the envy of the othe
professors, and which grants him a
charter membership in Lester’s Moustache Club. His favorite introductory
retort is ‘‘Well what under the shining
heavens,’’ and when he fixes you with
his glassy eye, like the Wedding Guest
you are compelled to listen. He takes
great interest in the students; a booster
of their activities and believes in a
better organized social life. His fayorite question is ‘‘What, if anything is
wrong with Dalhousie?” He differs
from others in actually trying to find
out.

 

men that some provision for the sterilization of the mentally defective must
be included in the social programme
of any country that is taking its social
responsibilities seriously.

I am in favour of a Sterilization Law
for Nova Scotia.

Sincerely yours,
Douglas M. MacIntosh.

 

Dear Sir:

Once years ago some one dared to
criticize the dear old Gazette. What a
precedent. Things have come to such
a stage that poor Bill and Dot can’t
even walk from the Hall to the G
without some poorly contructed brain
launching a tirade against colege lovers. Why it wouldn’t be college without a Dot anda Bill.

And talking about bills, students
have even been known to complain
about the fees, they don’t stop to consider that if the Sudent’s Council fee
was lowered Red would have to find
another job, pardon me, position.

Poor old Red, what would we ever
do without his blatant sarcasms, directed at someone else of course, to
lighten the long hours that some people
fecl they are compelled to spend in the
Gym—that house of sin.

However, my real object in writing
this letter to the Gazette was to praise
the really wonderful way in which it
has stood back and allowed all and sundry to strike at it with destructive
criticisms.

To think that any organization could
have the will power to remain silent
under such gross insults as have appeared against the oldest college paper
in America.

Perhaps there is a new motto for —

them. ‘Mine not to reason why,
Mine but to do and die.”

(Continued on page 3.)

 

 
  

|

Pies adesltitnd ¥ features of student
“ie at Dalhousie present themselves to
th e interested spectator. Firstly, the
rustic, even barnyard, wit of “The
Campus Comment” and ‘The Pine
e Hill Peccadillos’; secondly the smart,
and even studied, dress of a minority
_ who appear on the paths of the College
. ere are obviously two groups of
. gisddanta: The spirit expressed in the
crude humor of the Gazette's weekly
5. Poluinns i is, of course, different from the
_ spirit expressed in the sartorial excela lence of a group recognized as ‘frat: -'men,’class presidents, foot-ball capNG _ tains and other office-holders. Per- haps the two spirits are divergent. At
S _ any rate to the impartial observor, there
_ are clearly two “‘college spirits’ at Dal
housie.

Criticism of our college spirit has
usually been prejudiced or biased.
Some one has said it is ‘‘rah-rah”’ and

_has confused the tone of the College
with the tone of one group, such as the
Engineering Society. Another has
said it is definitely anti-‘‘rah-rah” and

has confused the tone ot the Collece
with a small circle of his own triends.
Truth is that Dalhousie College spirit
is pathetic. The lack of interest in

_ student organizations is a result of the
lack ot harmony between the two groups
of students here.

They come up with different backgrounds and with different things in
mind. One group comes, generally
speaking, from the country and seeks
“‘book-learning;"’ the other is from the
city and hopes to make influential
“contacts"’ that will help later. Outside the Registrar’s Office in September

the drab blue serge suits, white shirts,

black or muddy-purple ties and black
shoes of the country boys are a serious
and sober field against which the bright
and smartly-cut coats, flannel sutss,
gaudy ‘ellow and white ties and color~ ed snirts of the city ladsstand out. On
the one hand, natural shrewdness,
great ambition, naive cnthusiasm: on
the otner, good taste, resurve, fine manners and a worldly outlook, The societv ot Dalhousie is strictly divided
from the beginning.
If either of the two groups held Dalhousie campus to the exclusion of the
other we might have a marked spirit

——— at_-~Dalhousie football games. We

: might also have a long line of Dalhousians presiding over the Council
of the Students, rather than the men

from other colleges who have held the
office so long. Indeed, there might be
areal interest in Sodales, Glee Club, and
the other major teatures of Dalhousie

rs
oer
Ps
ae

me life. But because there is a shrewd,
a gregarious provincialism on the one
ae hand and an aloof, sophisticated TorvLay ism on the other, student affairs will
ae continue as ‘‘nobody’s” affairs, or the
affairs of one clique or another.

2 —Anony mous

 

Letters

(Continued from page 2)

7 Doing the same old things and dying
the same old way.

- Well, I suppose it’s every body for his
i or her own methods. May yours have
- continued prosperity, because it won't

matter a heck of a lot fifty years from

; = 1 now.

i Sincerely, JOE.

 

CIVIL, E

Modern Equipment, Instructing
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year

  
   
 
  
  
   
 

 

|YOU NEED A
-|SPRING TONIC

An apple a day will keep
the Dr. away a milk shake
Pos will put him out of
| business. We wish the Dr.
‘no harm, but still we re| babe! our tonics.

rt
|Dathousi University

nt,
®
y

  
  
    
  

Store

 
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
  

‘gales.

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES
ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each.
Write or call for Calendar or advise.

“all BIRKS=

S. C. M. Meet

The following written by Philip Corrington of Bishop’s College, one of the
delegates to the S. C. M. Conference at
Pine Hill is reprinted from the columns
of The Mitre: .

“T left Mont real for Nova Scotia a
day or two after Christmas. I was being imported by the S. C, M. for a conference at Pine Hill College. I had
never heard of Pine Hill College. That
of course, was due to my ignorance.

“There was a great deal of snow, and
the cold was intense. Our train arrived at Halifax an hour late; but the
previous train was only ten minutes
ahead of us, Pine Hill College turned
out to be an old Presbyterian College
which had gone United. I pay it a
tribute here. I don’t believe I have
ever been more comfortable, or better
fed in any College I have stayed in; or
received with more friendship. New
Year in a college of Scottish traditions;
enough said.

“T must also note that a Dalhousie
student who lived here (it has a large
residential side) asked me if Bishop’s
was the College which produced The
Mitre, which had attracted his favorable attention.

“The Conference had delegates from
“U.N. B.,” Acadia, and “Mount A.,’
as well as Dalhousie. Nova Scotia is
remarkable for these small Universities which, on the whole, pursue their
separate existences with vigour and
success. If I remember rightly, both
Acadia and Mount Allison have between
500 and 1000 students. And then
there was Prince of Wales College;
this was represented by a group of students who persistently talked of ‘The
Island,” as if in all the world there were
only one, and that one named after
Prince Edward.

“King’s College, the oldest of them
all, has of course united with Dalhousie
and I was privileged to see its magnificent buildings on Dalhousie Campus,
The combined enrolment is nearly 1000.

“It must be firmly stated that no
words can be too strong to describe
Halifax in the winter; a grimy and desolate town made intolerable by Atlantic
A good deal of it burned down
while I was there.

“My next stop was Boston. WhenIl
crossed the border into Maine, the Immigration, after carefully searching my
surplices (no, it was the Customs man
who did that) gave me a short address
on human nature. He said that in his
experience he had found it inherently
honest. I should advise all my friends
to cross the border here.

“At Boston I stayed in the Guest
Room of the Cambridge Divinity
School, an Anglican Theological College of about sixty or seventy men. I
was very interested in seeing the new
“houses” at Harvard. The Fraternity
System is gone; and the students live in
“houses” of about 250, each house with |
its Master and tutors. It is simply
the English system. Most of them are
fine buildings; but one was a little ornate, “like a negro’s idea of heaven”
my guide suggested.

“Then came a week in New York at
the General Seminary. This is purely
a theological college, and houses about
170 men. It has on its staff some of
the most distinguished theological
scholars on the continent. It has a

 

 
   
     
     
      

Staff with Industrial Experience

     
     
 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

    
   

-— ——_

   

Memorial Tablets, and name
plates for professional men in
brass or bronze, are products of
Birk’s Craftshops
Designs and prices gladly submitted.

 
   
  
  
 

 
  

Henry Birks &Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax, N. S.

  
 
 

ee ee eee

Dalesate ‘Walls: ‘bh Re Reninit of Council

Meet

March 4th, 1934.

The Council of the Students met in
the Law Classroom at 2.30 p. m. on the
above date with the President in the
chair.

A request from the Glee Club for a
grant to cover the issuing of D’s was
deferred for consideration until the submission of a scale of award by the Glee
Club, Executive.

Due to certain developments it was
decided that the Munro Day celebration should be carried out as originally ;
planned, beginning with the afternoon
features on Wednesday,

As a result of unfavorable developments during the past week, the advis- '
abilitiy of having a Year Book was again
discussed. Mr. Allen, Editor of the
Book and Mr. Archibald, Business
Manager, were called in and expressed
their discouragement of the way in
which the Year Book affairs were shaping up. Each emphasized the fact that
he was very willing to carry on with the
book if the Council so desired, but
nevertheless expressed the opinion
that it would be contrary to the interests of the Student Body. Both stressed the strong feeling against the publication, the lack of cooperation by the
students, and the great decrease in
sales and advertising. They also felt
that the book, in acheap formas planned, would not justify the necessary
expenditure. The Council, after satisfying itself of the seriousness of these
objections, voted 7-3 to abolish the
Year Book.

A recommendation was that the Gazette and Year Book Staffs get together
available in a graduation issue of the
Gazette. They were asked to submit
their findings to the Council at a later
date.

The Boxing Budget covering the expenses of the Maritime Intercollegiate
Championships on March 21st was approved.

The meeting was adjourned at 4.45
p. m,

Respectfully submitted,
M. M. RANKIN,
Secretary-Treasurer.

_—_—_— SS.

There is a question bothering quite
a few people and that is ‘‘ Who was the
professor outside the Dalhousie Gym
last Saturday night who seemed to be |
enjoying himselt most wholeheartedly ?

Also—where does lawyer Clarke
come into this combine? Better be
careful Charles!—‘‘Life is real, life is
earnest.”

 

fine chapel, splendid buildings and a
magnificent library. I spent a little
over a week in this ecclesiastical ate
mosphere; but as I did much reading
and much talking, there is little to
write about here.

“It was interesting to find how many
ot their professors were Canadians, and
also to note that they appeared to hold
Bishop’s College in high respect. Indeed my collegiate tour, though it suggested| to me many new ideas, in no way
diminished my pride in this institution;
and I returned to it, wiser and betterinformed, but very well content.”

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
Senice Bul O16

25c. Rate to Students

  

    
      
  

 

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount

Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for com
plete Suit or Overcoat.

       
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
 

BADMINTON SUPPLIES

We have everything needful, but
we call particular attention to
our shuttlecocks, which include

Blue Goose, Dunlop Tournament
R. S. L. No 1 Tournes, Cambell’s
Consistant and others.

If it’ 8 sporting goods, we can

BARRINGTON at GEORGE
Telephon e B-6226

   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ito put in our oar.

March 14th. | 2” ability to act, and vice versa.

     

Se

plceeomenlldhicdh datet aneeoeeen alae

The Innocent

Bystander

 

Anent the controversy in the Glee
Club over cnoice of subject matter, we
venture for the first time in months,
At most colleges
there is a Dramatic Society which puts
on plays: there is also a Glee Club
which does nothing but sing, usually
with great financial and aesthetic success. They are separate organizations,

| believing, contrary to Hollywood dog
ma, that ability to sing does not entail
Unfortunately, here at Dalhousie the two
have been combined under the Aegis of
some master mind and so serve up to
the students a pot-pourri of musical
hash. We ship our oar.

Less than a century ago, college stu- |

fired

and took es
dents stoned their professors,
cannons at the Buildings,
pecial delight in burning the president's
house. To-day the high light of the
year isa bidtothe Delta Gamma Dance
strictly supervised by the faculty.
Whither are we Drifting?

A. S. H.: “What drug would you
advise for chronic constipation?’

Answer: If a drug is to be used at
all [ believe the best is mineral oil or
Liquid Petrolatum. However, one of
the best remedies for chronic constipation is not a drug at all, but applesauce. [ am_ not trying'to be facetious—I really mean applesauce is a
remedy for constipation.—Halifax
Daily Star—All right, try it and see
if it’s applesauce.

The other Saturday one of the lads
sneaking into the vendors for a case of
beer, met our style dictator sneaking |
out with a quart of scotch—Lot of colds
around these days.

S. Parkes Cadman, Radio Revivalist,
has compared girls who indulge in necking to rock salt placed in a trough for
cattle to lick. Maybe that’s why some
of the Hall girls think they’re the salt
of the earth.

Having probably gotten somebody's}
goat, we will lay aside the pen which |
has run dry and call it a day.

a ee

QUESTIONS WE WOULD LIKE
ANSWERED.

1. Were the five eligibles at Delta
Gamma?

2. Why all the girls wanted to dance
with Professor Maxwell?

3. Were the rolls to be eaten cr
thrown around?

4. If the Hall girls stayed home because, since the meals are so good, they
didn’t crave the food?

5. If Miss McKeen got in on time?

6. What special drag the Commerce boys have with the girls?

7. Does anyone know the outcome
of thé McFarlane-Barnstead rivalry?

If you want a date go up and see ‘her’
some time if you want a haircut come
up and see me perhaps you should do

aie en TIGH CLASS ye
BERT BOWLBY

HAIRCUTS
Over Buckleys’ Barrington St.

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per lb

FLAT PIECES 7c. per lb.
Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough

for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundry

rr" - ae

 

Pine Hill

Peccadillos

Well, it seems that some of the boys
are getting tired of the Scribe’s ‘Advice’ and want more interesting things

toread. What a pity that some of the
greatest complainants would not try
to write this column week atter week,
for nothing more than the sheer joy of
writing, and try to make it interesting.
What literary masterpieces would result! It's really a pity, too, that they
did not like the advice. The Scribe
thought it was rather good—it took one
full nignt a week to write—but his idea
was probably biased by the fact that
he was the writer.

Perhaps it WAS good—too good—
so good that it actually moved the
minds of the readers and made them

 

 

think. Alas! that he should be the
cause of that catastrophe! Or _ perhaps they were too. sophisticated, too

;
| blase,

too callous to be moved by the |
hidden realism in those lines. They
want dirt shown to them without the
tender green of grass or colours of flowers to hide the mud that lies beneath all
beauty. They want to be shown how
dirty mud really is—and they want the
writer to spatter the paper, the characters involved, the readers, and himself with the filth so that some perverted minds can have a laugh at someone.
They do not want scandal to go in one
ear of the Scribe and out the other;
they want it to go in his ears, his eyes,
and out the fountain pen to be placed |
before the readers.

Public opinion is the destiny that
shapes all ends, but it will never shape
the end of the Scribe's pen if the public
revels in dirt. The Scribe refuses to
put anything in these notes about anyone which he would not care to have
printed about himself. That, it is
considered, should be the standard set
by every writer. Consequently, the
objectors to this column can either take
what is given them or try to write the
column themselves. The Scribe refuses to Winchellize himself for anyone.

An example of the filth that appeals
to perverted minds was in the adjacent
column to the Peccadillos last week.
That letter should never have | een
published. In any publicnewspaper
it would have been open to the charge
of libel and slander.

The writer is apparently an old Pine
Hiller, although we are ashamed to recognize him as such. It seems as if he
had been disappointed in his ‘“‘love affairs’ when a Resident here and wishes
to vent his spite on the Residence as a
whole by casting mud at some of the
boys whem he probably called friend
when he was a Resident.

Perhaps you do not know, ‘‘ExStudent,” that there are such things
as gentlemen’s agreements and fraternal secrets which are never broken or
broadcast tothe world. Your code of
ethics is definitely—low. You are the
type that gives out lodge and business
secrets, army plans and other (to you)
unimportant things which might have
an effect on the reputations and lives
of your superiors, It is suggested that
if you ever have another letter of the
same type published, which we have no
fear will ever happen, you should sign
yourself, ‘‘Ex-Gentleman.”

 

 

Here is a bit of feminine rhyme—
rather silly, in fact:

nothing heavy,

 

The Music Mastersare the best
Orchestra in the City-We know
this is so because our engagement book shows it.
that satisfies.

CALL JERRY L-9238

For music

Halifax Transfer

PHONE B.7138

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

 

 

 
   

 

Entrapped in your swift hair,

last.
came.

 

GET YOUR
RAZOR BLADES

 

@ Five keen, double edged |
blades to fit any gillette-type
razor, for only one complete
set of Poker Hands! Many other
useful and attractive gifts for men
and women. Ask your dealer

for a copy of the latest list.
Quality and Mildness |
|
urret |
Cc I Ai ARETTES |

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Poker Hands are also packed with Turret
Pipe Tobacco and Turret Cigarette Tobacce

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd.

Views and Abuse

(Continued from page 2

 

  
 

 

 

We would like to suggest that the

remainder of their funds could have
been better spent than for a
We would
practice of each class leaving some
grant, say $200, to be obtained painlessly by having the graduates sign
over their caution deposit fees,
such a practice been started ten vears
ago,
it would now be quite a tidy sum, considering compound interest,
college would have some prospect of
putting a roof over the
tion of the old gym.

party

like to see them start a

Had

each class adding that amount,

and the

ugly founda
NNN

THE PURSUIT.

Just as in a lovely dream I found you.
Alone and singing some sweet melody:
Nectar from the flowers seemed to sur
round you,

so thrillingly.

Then I found I had my arms around you
Could I foretell the pain in store for me?

I thought that I had found my heart’s

desire,

Ne’er dream} See

Neer dreaming the ideal would fade,
the fire

Grow colder as the days went by, whe n
I

Rang up to hear you say, ‘‘Hello?—
Goodbye!”

‘A passing fancy,’ so you said, But,
wait,

Maybe I’m mistaken—Tonight at
eight?

Otto has been bitten by the bug at
After three years of celibacy it

Now he combs his hair every
Fine Arts day and has changed his
theme song trom “Should Ee? to °F
i IRISH rose.’ Hotcha!

EE

 

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N.S.

  
 
  

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

 

MacLeod, Baicom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

 
    

    
    
  
    
    
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
   
 
 
   
    
     
     
  
  
   
 
   
    
     
   
 
  
    
 
 
  
     
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
     
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
    
 
 
 
  
    
   
     
  
  
 
   
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
 

e of the City Basketball play-offs Saturday night. The game will take
_ Place at the Y. M. C. A.. :


 

{ ahciigh the Red-shirts have trimmed the Tigers in the two regular
league matches this season, the writer
picks the Thomas coached squad to
come through.

The two-game series should provide
lots of thrills for the fans. The’ support in numbers this year has been
good so keep up the good work and

oe
uy ~
as come and cheer the boys on to victory.

Size 18”’
Eatonia
value, ea.

i “Dal vs. Mandevere-i in the first game]

home.

 

-'
- j
ae ss

ef 47 ’ ,

Se Te ee ee ee me

Press reports of the recent AcadiaDal Hockey Tilt weren’t very favorable
toward the Dal team. The game was
rather listless but much more even than
the reports would indicate.

Do you know-—

~

Annabelle Morrison won one and
lost one in a recent ping-pong tourney.
The D. A. A. C. may make Badmina : Major Sport in place of Tennis.
e “big” D. A. A. C. meeting is
Ps to be held soon.

“Rosy” Pain (trainer) is just brimming over with news since he arrived
(Courtesy of Bing “Vanilla”
Buckley.)

EATON’S

 

éatonia

oar Sturdy top grain cowhide.
ee Big and roomy—built on the square shoulder style.
Lock-stitch sewn-in frame.
Heavy hardware—extra large corner pieces.

Leather lined.
Black—brown—or tan.

Size 20’’
Eatonia
value ea.

9.85

 

,
Lee hr
ee

*
SS

 

 

ies. ce whe. i .

fon ehh at
menses a ” aoe"

  

 

 

DALHOUSIE ae

 

 

Treatment of

 

ARTS AND SCIENCE BEAT FROSH Athletes Rappe d Y.M.C.A. ‘44. 25

Last Thursday noon Arts and Science eked out victory over the Freshmen quintette in an Interfaculty
Basketball fixture by a 5 point margin,
thus maintaining leadership of the
second section. The yearlings started
out fast and heaved in 16 points in the
first half, twice as manv as the Artsmen
could garner. Inthe second period the
Frosh slowed down while their opponents turned on the steam and scored 21
counters, while the Frosh scored 8.
The final score was Arts 29—Frosh 24.

Si Miller with 8 points and Ilan McKeigan with 6 played nice ball for Arts
while Edgar Stewart counted 9 for the
verdants.

ARTS—H arvey, Simon 6, Skenfeld
5, Lebowitz 4, Cassell, Fendell, MeKeigan 6, Murphy, Miller 8.

FROSH—Stewart 9, Kitz 4, Gosse 6,
Greenberg 2, Mercer, Gardner 1, Ross
2, Merkel.

er

er, MEN WITH A KEEN EYE TO VALUES CHOOSE

Club Bags

Guaranteed the Best Regular Value in Town

10.75

EATO N’S—Granville Street Level.

The New Remington
“Scout” Portable Typewriters

Specially Priced, Thursday
and Friday, Each

3.00

Small and light, but strongly
built. Four row standard
keyboard. Gothic capital
type. Finished in red and
black, red and blue, red and
green, all green and all blue.
All

from the maker.

new

machines direct

§ Deferred payment terms

$2.50 down and the balance, plus an equitable
extra charge, in six

monthly payments of
$4.00. Total D. P. Price
$26.50.

EATON’S Matin Floor.

Oo

TIMES

LIMITED :

      
 

The Sports Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:

Dalhousie. University is presumably
a leader in sport in the Maritime Provinces yet in my estimation the university does the least for its teams of any
college that I know.

When a leading university of Canada
does practically nothing for her representatives in the field of sport, drastic
measures should be taken!

Citing a few concrete examples—
fthe first is football. Where did the
iootball team go thisfall? The answer
ts to Acadia. A Dalhousie football
eam sent on an ofganized tour of the
province would be of greater advantage
to the college than all the advertising,
radio talks, and lectures put together.
Consider hockey for a minute. Dal is
badly handicapped by the absence of a
rink—are the other colleges? Thisisa
ridiculous state of affairs and should be
repaired immediately.

Next in order is basketball.
and intermediate

I understand that the senior
‘teams took a trip to Wolfville on unemployed rations. Sleeping quarters
wereat a premium, players sleeping (did
I say sleeping? trying to
sleep) on seats stretched out in the
aisle of a cold stuffy railway car. I
was also told that 35c was allowed per
man for meals. In contrast to these
medieval conditions, teams from Mount
Allison and Acadia made similar trips
but did they
No! Did they
Their respective
sleep in a hotel and provided good
wholesome Why can’t

excuse me,

sleep in a day-coach?
No!
them

starve?
had

nearly
Councils

meals.

likewise?

I am also told that the basketball
the
annual trip to Sackville cut out, and

budget was severely massacred,

only 3 new uniforms issued.

These are a few examples of the backwardness of the treatment received
representatives in the
Surely the students who
devote a great deal of their time and
energy to the upholding of Dalhousie’s
name in athletic fields are worthy of

by Dalhousie’s
field of sport.

more consideration (page McGill.}.

This dissertation, though lengthy is
about due and las an ardent supporter

of sports at Dal take the liberty, I hope
of suggesting a few changes:

1. Hot water in the gymnasium
(during football season.)

2. Towels should be supplied to
members of major senior teams.

8. One organized tour per team of
the Maritimes including league games
(this would eliminate continual disruption of studies.)

4. Support by the student body at
home,

5. Adequate
tion when awav.

6. Reorganization of the D. A. A.C.
By this I mean it should not be necessary to go to the D, A. A. C. to get
permission to go to the Council to ask
for money.

7. Anannual banquet for letter men
at which captains for the next year will
be elected and athletic awards made.

8, Championship teams should be
allowed to go as tar as possible in quest
of titles.

I may be a bit radical in some of my
suggestions but I believe these changes
would cause somewhat of a revival of
interest in sport at Dalhousie.

“Ora et Labora”

meals and accomoda
i (snes ssisssssssessee-eessesenestense-seseees

STARTING
SATURDAY

GRETA

GARBO

RETURNS

QUEEN
CHRISTINA

. the queen who

     
     
      
  

ee ,

in

txaded her throne for
the thrill of a_ kiss!

     

Dalhousie with a larger student dody do

A fast moving Dalhousie Intermed
late quintette triumphed over the Y.

M. C. A. seconds last Thursday at

Studley by a decisive score of 44 to 2

The visitors gathered a 7-2 lead but
Dal rallied and took the lead by a score
of 8-7 and trom then on were never
threatened. The play turn
fast, rougn, and loose, punctuated by
frequent scoring. Both teams, particularly Dalhousie, missed many easy
sports under the basket. The Cubs
led 21-13 at half time and took things
in the final frame
with occasional rushes for scores.

was in

being content
The
match was wide open as the out come
had the league
standing, both teams being definitely
a ??
out.
Lorway,

easy

no serious effect on

Stoddard; and MacDonald
played well for the old Alma Mater
while Scott, Bauld and Meisner
the pick of the visitors.

DALHOUSIE—Sullivan 5, T. Crease
10, Stoddard 7, MacDonald,
2, Simimonds 14.

Y. M. C. A.—Mceisner. 4,
Bauld 5, Hatfield 7,
Hamilton 3,

were

Lorway 6,

Lioy 2
Komiens,y 2
Gesner 2, Scott.

Interfac. Hockey

Ina regular fixture of the Interfaculty
Hockey the Arena }
last Arts by
the large score of 6-1.

League played at

Thursday Law defeated

the services of

three of the regular team and the Law
Arts were without

yers led by McSween and Hinchey score
almost at will. Fergusson for the
men garnered the only goal and played
bang-up hockey the
Scott MacLellan rival goalies
made some sensational saves.

for Artsmen.

and

LAW 3 FROSH 2.

Law defeated the Frosh 3 to 2 in a
(regular game played at the Forum on
Thursday. By virtue of thiswm Law
now meet Med. for the title.

Law collected two goals in the first
chapter and added another in the last

to check the game Hinchey, MaeSween |
Sim- |

and Miller, denting the twines.
monds and Gosse both tallied in the
first and second periods respectively
to make the score read 3-2.

The game was exceptionally fast and

clean. . Carroll, Stewart and MacKenzie were outstanding for the Frosh
while Hinchey, MacSween and Bob

MacLellan played bang-up hockey for
the Lawyers.

MEDICINE 5 COMMERCE 3.

Medicine defeated Commerce 5 goals
to nil in a regular fixture of the Interfaculty Hockey League played at the
Forum on Tuesday.

Commerce with the exception of a
ucky goal by the Meds in the first
canto battled the Meds on even terms
final
collected 4
brilliantls in

for two periods but wilted in the
chapter the Meds
Crease

when
goals. Ted

goals for Comm., while Donahoe, Ryan
and Begg were outstanding for Medicine.

Medicine now meet Law in the finals

for the championship. Doug Bent
refereed all the games very satisfact
orily.

 

P. S.—Let’s. hear
subject of

the
the

some more on

sports particularly

banquet idea.

 

CAPITOL |] GARRICK

FRI. SAT.

ALICE IN
WONDERLAND

Starring

CHARLOTTE HENRY

MON. Tues.
Triumphant returnof the worlds
greatest picture

GEORGE ARLISS

DISRAELI

 

 

Arts-4

on te 1984

NE Ne eee ne  aaenneanoannndianenttinumessatmananadtaanapent temmanaadtiag=anaamtienatnmaidaiaanaennttiteienearaena demaaneeaeae pn) eed eae

GERS AND W ANDERERS PLAY OFF FOR TITLE

Dal Cubs! Down| Two-Game

 

Series Will
Be Played

By virtue of their 48-35 win over the
Y. M. C. A. last Thursday at Studlev
the Dalhousie Tigers pumped into a
first place tie with Wanderers, necessitating a two game playoff series. The
games will be played at the Y. M.C. A.
on March 10 and at Dalhousie on March
15, total score to count. It was Dal’s
fourth win in six starts. Don Bauld
Dal forward, leads the league in scoring
having 8 more than his
and Ralston

points, 27
nearest rival. Musgrave
also place in the first ten. The Tigers
are the only team to score more than
scored against and they compiled the
highest team score.

Thursday’s game was fast and free
but listless, the Dal boys repeatedly
loafing on their leads until the Y. M.C.
A. pulled up close. Plenty of easy
chances were missed by both sides and
it was only the brilliant work of Bill
who treated the fans to a
good ball that kept
Dal on the long end of the score in the

Gladstone

nice exhibition of

 

| first period. Musgrave and Anderson

were decidedly off color and not until

| the dying moments did the Bengals

show any pep. The collegians started
a to take a 12-3 lead, but quickly
blew it by loafing. Again grabbing a

ten point lead the
| the
the winners as

The
Fe ce at nt over the first but try as
they would the ‘‘Y”’
come within 5 points of the collegians.
|In this frame Don Bauld went on a
spree and netted 13 points for Dalhousie.
The game got very rough and players
on Bott sides

Tigers repeated and
visitors climbed within 5 points of
the half ended 22-17.
second period was a big im
boys could not

gave and received some
In the last five minutes.

was rez both teams

| hard knocks.

the game il exciting,

fighting for scores, but Dal emerged
victors by a margin of 13 points.” Hill,
Parker, and Smith led the Y scorers
and played brilliantly. Bauld, Fair
stein, and Gladstone were the pick of
the college outfit.
DALHOUSIE
Ralston 9, D. Crease a
Fairstein 4, Musgrave
A A
Smith 10, Lloy,
2, Hamilton.

—~Bauld 15, T. Crease
Gladstone 138.

Anderson 1.
-Be a y 4, Finlay,
Hill11, Parker 8, Scott

 

ei ciecens

| Theolog s Win
| Softball Title

Scoring a 21-7 victory in thethird and
deciding game of the Interfaculty Soft
 

ball League, Theology won the 1934
Title. The Theologs captured the first
game, Arts came back to take the

second but Theology came through to
win the third and deciding game.
The had a hard tussle in
the first few innings but the Artsmen
and the Theologs turned on

the steam to gather in the sixth & runs

Theologs
weakened
and from there were never in danger.

Gaum, ace Arts hurler,
low

 

was slightly be
form and allowed quite a few hits.
the

pitched great

Gordon, Theologs moundsman,

ball

support from his mates.

received fine
On the others

hand Gaum received poor support es
and

pecially from the outfield. Many sure
outs the Artsmen bungled and the errors proved very costly.
Batteries Theologs—Gordon and
Bruce.
Arts—Gaum, Miller and

Ferguson.

CASINO

Wednesday to Friday
March 7-8-9

FREDRIC

MARCH
SYLVIA SIDNEY

GOOD DAME

Saturday to Tuesday
March 10 - 12 = 13

SEARCH FOR

 

 

 

 

 

With the 30 Inter™ational
“Search For Beauty”
Contest Winners

 

BEAUTY
|
|

ee ee ail A os = 4 =

“f tues ane,

“hp a. id 5 ae ee

pb

Se

ie ioe

  
 

dag

i’. *
F.
