Ta Pee

   

f . are e Crowd
Se At Med Dance

et aij - Once again the skeleton, Charlie,
zt "presided over a dance at the Nova
- Scotian on Novy. 10th. Under the direction of Hal Taylor, H. Drover, E.
_ Eagles, G. MacDonald, Laurie Teas_ dale and Edward Barnhill the evening
was a very successful one both socially
“a ie financially as is shown by an at_ tendance of almost 300 couples. Mrs.
ise G. Grant, Mrs. C. W. Holland, and
_ Mrs. D. W. Mainland were the chap- erones ot the evening.
_ Jerry Naugler and band started the
merriment off promptly shortly after
nine and carried on the good work over
a period of 19 physical reactions all of
which were conveniently tabulated for
us in the programs, the only complaint
is against that piece ‘‘Who’s Afraid of
the Big Bad Wolf.” and a few others on
the same par which seem to put
some people in a rather depressed or depression mood.
Evidently the management of the
mF Nova Scotian, following the precedent
a of the Lord Nelson during the Freshieid Soph Dance, has at least decided that
- it is their business to rent rooms and
take the chance of paying the damages

 

  
  
  

   

teh
+ a4

isha aaa
. »- i 
   
 

ee

a

  
 

he

fy

my

ae

oP Sey &
Co ety
vie

a , none ies
* “a naa

ae

 

k
—

a i - eee
qu é

es

x i ae a aa Se.

* a 5
1 x
i %

 

tae = for they have ‘‘buried the hatchet,”
’ aes and seemed quite cheerful about the
pe a eet affair, the result was that there

 
 

 

Mile,

wl
a
’

"

out | of town guests arriving
sin full a ‘Still
bri ibe

“e
a upand« down stairs that they have de
cided to give it up or else they are be
_ ginning to enjoy the exercise.

After the eighth dance the party ad
journed to the Main Dining Room for

supper which was served according to
the usualstandard ofthe hotel. Allthe
lovers of fish and bee should have

been there. There were scallop pat
- ‘ties but no beer, but an_ increased

spirit of gaiety as the evening wore on
showed that some people at least bore
the committee no grudge.

._ After supper, Jerry Naugler’s band
supplemented by the guest artist, Mr.
W. A. Crandall played selections
on the organ from time to time during
‘the remainder of the evening. On
the whole it was a very enjoyable
party, the good spirit which appeared
to be in everyone shows that such an
occasion for a convival evening is highly appreciated by the students.

Shirreff Hall
Notes

Miss MacPhail, speaker at the Model
League of Nations, Miss McNally,
~~. Dean of Household Science at Acadia,
Dr. McKern, Howard Oxley and Fred
Wigmore, were guests for dinner at the
Se hall Thursday evening.

   

oa

    

as”
ahah hes al

as?
a ——

o

iy

te

a

’ ae

es

te
is
in
4
a

cat

 

LS oS
/ ge

Doris Nickerson of St. John, a member of last year’s freshman class is visiting Mary Lettingham and will remain
in Halifax about a week.

wi

   
   
    
  
     
   
 
  

| Lil Fraser says her one ambition in

fife is to marry a wealthy man who
_ spends all his time away and leaves his
wife at home in possession of the car

and a ticket to the golf, tennis and

badminton club. Applicants phone
B. 9746.

    
 
      
   
    
 
   
   
    
   
   
    
    
      
        
    
 
  
 
  

ae: 80 necessity | for an increased per-|
ente the reporter of the Gazette wrote one
of the most unfair and contradictory
|| articles it has been my, hardship to read

; Th ef

   

rt r supper by which time every
one is dithes so exhausted from running |

 
    
  

Gazette Is
Criticized

es

The write-up of the Freshman Variety Show in last week's issue of the
Gazette has been subjected to much
criticism. The Gazette stands by its
report, which stated the show to be a
success, but pointed out faws that
might be eliminated in future.

In view of current feeling, however,
that our criticism was unfair, we asked the Glee Club Exectuti,e to present
their opinions. A letter from Jimmie Gray, President of the Glee Club
follows.

The report of the Freshman ‘‘Variety’ in the Gazette was certainly untrue, uncalled for, and unfair. It was
certainly below the ‘“‘par’’ of Gazette
work, and was most unfair to yourself
and the Freshmen Class who have given so much of their time, aims and effort to make the show the real success
it was.

On all sides the Freshman Variety is
acclaimed the finest production of any
freshman class. Even the ‘‘reporter”’
admits it was better than the splendid
products of Doug Murray and his coworkers last year. Therefore, you need
pay no attention to such a dastardly
attack as published in the Gazette.

In fairness to the Freshman Show
and the Choral Society I feel it my duty
as President to state emphatically that

freshmen worked diligently for
a weeks a then their dance number called ‘ mediocre” and the other half
ot their musical is called flat.

Last week I received a number of
letters and unless I am mistaken some
ot them will be interesting to tne student body.

One is trcm Ralph Morton, who aas
had more Glee Club experience then
any man I know oi. Another asserts
to be the ‘ Voice of Many” expressing
student opinion.

A third is trom a medicai student

Signed: JIMMIE GRAY,
Pres. Dal. Giee Club.

U. K. C. Notes

 

The mock Parliament held in the
Residence was a big success. Almost
the entire student body attended and
since the Government had a majority of
only one over the Opposition, great
excitement prevailed as each bill was
voted on.

The session was opened by a speech
from the throne, read by Dr. Vroom.
The speaker’s chair was occupied by
Dr. Prince who gave the members
numerous laughs by his solemn readings on the procedure.

Mr. H. Cleveland, leader of the
United Radicals and Premier at the
session introduced, through members
of his party, many amendments and
new bills which were supposed to
alleviate any imaginary discomforts of
the inhabitants of Leppland. Tach
act of the Government was hutly resisted by the Opposition, but every
time their plan was carried by a slim
majority.

Mr. G. S, Tanton led the Opposition
in their enthusiastic attempts to dislodge the Government or prove its
incompetence.

Throughout the session high humour
held sway and the ‘‘mock’’ idea was
done to perfection.

 

  
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Lectures

‘The pa.sage from schoo! to college”
was the subject chosen by Dr. H. L.
Stewart for a most interesting talk to
the freshman class last Tuesday.
Standing before the class with his hands
on the lapels of his coat, Dr. Stewart
explained the vast change which one
undergoes when he passes from the
“pupil” stage to become a ‘‘student.”’
He pointed out that the high advantage obtained by entering a college is
that through growing responsibilities
one finds his dignity. But there is also
a disadvantage in college methods.
The first-year student finds that he is
left to do as he pleases, and so he leaves
the work pile up to such an extent that
he is unable to recover.

Dr. Stewart has many pleasant reminiscences of his college iite, and he
said that he was envious of those who
had a course at college ahead of them.

From his own experience he had home
advice to give to the students.
thought that a college student should
pay certain attention to sport, and not
give all histime to study as he had done.

He

be

“Short cuts to knowledge” should not

be used,’’ he added, deploring the use
of keys as an aid to the translation of

Latin and Greek.
Dr. Stewart thought that there was

not enough interest in debating at Dalhousie.
Oxford Union, and said that many
famous British parliamentarians had
learned public speaking with this body.
According ‘to Dy.
is the one thing at which few are good
to begin with, and few cease to improve
with practice.

He spoke at length about the

-Stéwart, debating:

Class '34 will hold a party at the
Nova Scotian Hotel Nov. 20, at 8.30
it was announced at a class meeting
following Dr. Stewart’s lecture last
Tuesday, by Gordon Thompson amid
general enthusiasm.

It was also announced at the same
meeting that Marg. Drummie and Eric
Mercer will represent the class in competition for the Bennett Shield for debating.

 

Junior-Senior
Class Party

Or Tuesday evening, November
14th, classes '84 and ’35 held an enjoyabie party at the Lord Nelson. The
party was held with the object o: getting ail members of both classes together and it marked the beginning
of both classes social activities for the
year. A goodly number were present
to dance from 8.30 until 12.30 to Jerry
Naugler’s orchestra.

Infornal dances usually are lively
and this proved go exception.

Prof. Geo. Wilson and Prot. and Mrs.
Murray MacNeil were the chaperones
of the evening.

Many thanks are due the committee
for the way in which things were handled.

 

Altogethier it was very amusing and
yet from it one learns the exact proceedings in a regular House of Commons.

Dr. H. L. Stewart| Chairman of

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 16th, 1933.

     

No. 8

 

 

Model League

 

F.H. GODFREY, B.A.

 

Miss MacPhail

Scores League

“Germany has a very real case for
leaving the League of Nations, and the
promises that the Allied Nations made
following the World War, regarding
disarmament have not been kept.”
Such was the statement made by Miss
Agnes MacPhail, M. P. for South East
Grey Ontario, in the Dominion Parliament, in an address on ‘‘Canada and
the League of Nations” deiiveied at the
opening session of the Maritime Assembly of the Model League of Nations
Thursday evening last. The Dalhousie Gymnasium, where the address
was given, was well filled and Miss M acPhail’s address was listened to with intense interest.

The delegates from the Maritime
Universities attending the Assembly
were welcomed on behalf of King’s
University by Dr. A. H. Moore, President of King’s University, and by Dr.
R. A. MacKay for Dalhousie. The
speaker of the evening was introduced
by F. H. Godfrey, B. A., of King’s,
Chairman of the Assembly.

Miss MacPhail declared that the
great blunder in forming the League
of Nations following the World War
had been that it wasn’t a true League
of Nations, but a League of the victorious nations. However, War has
now become almost an International
crime due to the efforts of the League.
The League of Nations has fallen down
dismally in its efforts to handle econ
omic affairs, this being principally due
to the fact that the different nations of
the World have refused to cooperate
in anything that they fear will effect
their own personal economic wellbeing. .

Miss MacPhail declared that there
isno hope for the World in an economic
sense, unless it attempts to. raise the
standard of living of the working classes. Today instead of unrestrained
competition we must have internation
al cooperation, if we are to find the way
out of our difficulties she said, and unless we do this it would seem our present industrial civilization is doomed.

Following the World War the nations agreed to disarm if Germany
would do the same, but although Ger
many kept her part of the bargain, the
Allied nations built up their arms to a
greater extent than ever. Finally
Germany became impatient at this
hypocrisy of the Allied nations, and it
was then that she protested against
such treatment by leaving the League
of Nations. Miss MacPhail declared

nn

Model League

Holds

Interesting Session
F. H. Godfrey, King’s, Presides

The Model Assembly of the League
of Nations held their sixth Maritime
Intercollegiate Assembly at King’s University, on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of the past week. The sessions
were well attended and the Assembly
was a complete success in every way,
all sessions being interesting and instructive. The Assembly was presided
over by F. H. Godfrey, B. A., of King’s
College University, who was elected
chairman of the Assembly.

The opening session was held on
Thursday evening, when the delegates
heard a very interesting address by
Miss Agnes McPhail, M. P. Friday
morning a proposal was made by France
headed by Garland Brookes, of Mt. A.,
for a general Minorities Treaty to apply to all members of the League.
Wilfred Burchell, Dal., speaking for
Germany, opposed the proposal on the
grounds that the question was one of
National policy rather than international, At the second session Friday
morning, a proposal was brought in by
Belgium, Allan Findlay, King’s for a
revision of Article XVI of the Covenant for (a) tests of agression, (b) the
automatic application of sanctions.
The question was raised as to whether
economic aggression has not at the
present time greater possibilities than
military aggression. During the morning sessions Germany, led by Robert
McFarlane, Dal., expressed her disgust for the League and the German
delegation withdrew ina body. Angus
Cameron, Acadia, representing Great
Britain, considered Germany's withdrawal as being more then justified.

At the Friday afternoon session a
new experiment in Model League procedure was tried, that is to say Round
Table Sessions. At Roung Table Session A the N. R. A. Act was discussed,
the discussion being led by Donald
Archibald, Dal. At the Round Table
Session B, the discussion was led by
F. H. Godfrey, King’s and the foreign
policy of the British Commonwealth
of Nations in the Eastern Crisis was
discussed. Friday evening the delegates attended a theatre party at the
Capitol Theatre, which was followed by
a reception at King’s University.

The Round Table Sessions were continued at the Saturday morning sessions and Round Table A discussed the
possibility of economic recovery by
International Corporation. The discussion was led by Roger Rand, Acadia,
and two opinions arose, one that international cooperation with the preent nationalistic feeling was practically
impossible and that national planning
was the only way out of the depression; the other was that the best course

At 1 o’clock the delegates assembled
at the Lord Nelson Hotel tur a luncheon
which was presided over by F. H. Godfrey. Dr. H. F. Munro was the chief
apeaker and he emphasized the import ance of understanding the problems of
the World and pointed out that most
of the critics of the League of Nations
were not well informed as to its power
and problems. Professor DesBarres,
of Mount Allison, also spoke. The
Assembly of the Model League will be
held at Acadia University. Large
delegations from Mount Allison, Acadia, Dalhousie, and King’s attended
the sessions and all declared it to be one
the most successful Assemblies ever
held.

The delegates who attended the Sessions are as follows:—

Acadia University

Great Britain: Angus Cameron, Margaret Leonard, Harold Perry, Roger
Rand.

Netherlands: Ruth Young.

Roumania: Enid Creed.

India: Smith Maclvor, Eina Clark,
John Gregory.

Austria: Lloyd Jess, Heather Brander, Byron Manzer.

Dalhousie University

Germany: M. Clennett, R. S. MacFarlane, W. S. Burchell.

Czechoslovakia: J. H. R. Sutherland,
W. R. Copp.

Irish Free State: E. S. Higgins, K.
Phyllis Burns.

South Africa: C. B. Ferguson, John
Fisher.

Italy: D. F. Archibald, Tendler

Sweden: Merle Purtil.

Norway: Irene Walker.

Argentine: Ian McKeigan.

King’s University

Belgium: Allan Findlay, Arthur
Chase.
Switzerland: Elizabeth Hood,  Harri
son Cleveland.,
Poland: E. B. N. Cochrane, Carleton
Smith.
Canada: Roy Duchemin, J.
Douglas.
Bulgaria: Winnifred Scott.
Portugal: F. H. Godfrey.
Finland: Lillian Keating.
Irak: R. S. Cummings.

Ww.

Mzunt Allison University
France: Dorothy Young, Garland
Brooks, Brock Rideout.
China: Margaret Giffin, Jack Gardi
for the World to follow would be a| ner.

World Commission. Round Table B

Australia: Patsey MacKay, Rex

discussed the British Commonwealth] Carson, Harold Freeman.

and the European Crisis and the obligations of the Commonwealth under
the Locarno Pact.
chapel service was held in the King’s
Chapel at 11 o’clock.

Following the Chapel service an Open
Forum was held in which the delegates

Jugo Slavia: Jane Clarke.
Greece: Clair Johnson, Ralph Con
An Armistice Day] nors.

Faculty Advisors(

B. S. Kierstead (University of New

discussed the future of the Collective Brunswick).

System giving their personal opinions
rather than those of the countries which
they represented.

 

 

that Canada should take her position
in the League of Nations more seriously
than she has in the past, if she wishes
to gain any material benefit from the
League.

F. W. DesBarres (Mount Allison).
R. A. MacKay, (Dalhousie-Kings)
T. M. Dadson (Acadia).

——_>+-—___—_

University of Hawaii: The players of the University footbali team wear
no shoes but develop great accuracy in
kicking and can punt fifty yards with
ease,

 

   
     

[THE LAW DANCE

JERRY NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA

DOUBLE $3.00

Seen ie

    

ne eummennen

ee re

The Nova Scotian, Wed. November 22nd.

SINGLE $1.75

—~——9—

-——”~

ep aias

 
 
  
  

Ree te eget a Fg WALROUSIE GAZETTE | November 16th. 1938

 

 

      
 

vf ? WOMEN DO NOT MAKE GOOD!WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT
EXCHANGES Knocker s Corner DOCTORS. HOCKEY?

re | SHIRREFF HALL NIGHT In the course of every heated dis-| It has been the custom in previous

; re : THEATRE. cussion on the destinies of the Medical | years to start Hockey after Christmas.

eo pate a eareiey i profession, some would be wit asks} A short notice is usually given stating

Ganecin poe oe ae It has often been asserted that a resi-| ‘should women study medicine?’ |the time and place of practice. Prac
1 1869‘ TheOldest College Paper in America’”’ enatiun. Nov.

dence would infuse a new spirit into} We consequently take this golden op-| tices are then held about three or four
Dalhousie and bring about a miracu-] portunity, with boundless glee to answ-| times a week for about two weeks and

  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
  
  
     
  
   
  
    
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
      
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
    
     
  
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
     
    
  
   
    
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
   

_ EDITORIAL =o Batty: lous change in its athletic, social, and| er the question, rather flatly yet very | the team picked.
=e, Pe . apne ia , ! .,. | intellectual life. Al Dalhousie’s ills decisively. ‘Women should not study ;
eer SOHC EEe MIN: mie Editors. -  W.H. JOST, B.A. Students who are interested it = Mave been attributed to this lack of resi- heedicine It appears to the a yaetentts san
; ,  B, 9608. Patt B. 5b18, ternational relations would enjoy read-| ential facilities, yet is such an assump- plan would be to start hockey about the
aS dee fat ie > rk | ing an article which appears in the Mc
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

tion warranted? The university co-| Doubtless the fair sex will rise up middle of November and to continue
eds have as fine and imposing a resi- with the rebuttle, ‘‘we are as intelligent | it for about three weeks. A meeting
dence as could be desired, but in their | 28 men and therefore why shouldn't we | of all those intending to play could be
case it is difficult to point out any good study Medicine.”” Quite true, it is| called and four evenly divided teams
granted that to-day women are some-|chosen or teams could be picked

es Ree ae SAS oa. Associates,

: Fete : Gill Daily under the heading ‘‘Cosmo_ * FREEMANSTEWART BORDEN STODDARD politan.” Negotiations between U.

FRANK GOUDGE. JAMES MACKINTOSH. S. A. and Soviet Russia are now under
eres ¢ DAVID R. ALLAN. © EDWARD ARAB way and the author of the article in

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

results from such an establishment.

ee has ; NEWS DEPARTMENT. . question gives his interpretations of True, it. may be alleged that here the| times as intelligent as men, which is as| according to faculties.
Evol as ‘ what the outcome will be. Maxim girls eat and sleep, but even in these re-| it should be. Women however are Th Pe tenis beh iain that eas
DOU GLASCREASE. __G, H. MURPHY HARRY SUTHERLAND. || itvinoff Russia’s diplomat is to con- + , more noted for their acquisition of ee oe eee ee q

By oe a7. 8219 B. 5487 : spects it is rumoured that they sleep games could be played per week. If
pate ap, = ee 5 37. B.321 - r , fer with Roosevelt. who is definitely on little and eat much less. The co-eds knowledge than they are for the intelli- far thud dele These spouts he
a3 a oes pee ) Associaies. his way to Washington. turn out en mass to display college sour- | Sent application or dispersal of 3031 - EE ee ie a. Wy-08 aid the peucticzs
| MERLE PURTILL, MARTHA KENISTON = MARY SIMMONDS i ct Rotel dances “nt etmeone’s} > ONS: Dabs, Fe. Shoal Hegre Hioal as | wid be dahielde Thies ia what
ee ; BT ; . want else’sexpense. Residence life, tor them | Pects of Medicine but 7 is an on happened in the Interfaculty League
a MP ediaysie = x | SPORTS arsity: eo er a a pte phi ane cs ape ad pac eat.’ Hatch! mea Saved about

A On Sees to : sal enthusiasm ‘tor the debating, football, ; :

oe ae CREASE B. 5737 i DON. CAMERON RUTH SKALING According to tradition the Dal En- or basket ball teams; or rather, it is en-| Tetical knowledge one has absorbed. One yey Ewe Gh thine Weexs
are sUsik DEPARTMENT gineers each year pick up their levels, thusiasm for one member ot the team| !t is in this phase of Applied Medicine! [It has been said that Hockey at Dal

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

tapes and chains and march out on the with whose virtues they weary their] Where women fail disastrously.

listeners. Shirreff Hall affords them
every facility for taking an active and
organized part in can.pus activities, yet
they are content with small cliques.
In addition to the ties of residence they
also have the advantage of some society
known as Delta Gamma, which organization alone enables a unified action
that is denied the male students. This
society is more active and is reputed to
have a certain interest in debating and
other constructive work. Along about
February they are especially prominent
and the co-eds, with their usual patronizing manner, invite the male students
to one social function, in return for
favours received. But are these the
sole contributions that the Dalhousie
co-eds can make to their college life?
If so, then co-education is a lamentable
failure and the supposed female intellect is not a supplement but an impediment to the masculine mind. To all
intents and appearances Shirreff Hall
expends its energy in effervescent
gaiety; its inmates spend their time in
seducing their neighbours to a favourable opinion, and then, naively enough,
believe implicitly inthis opinion; Perhaps Dr. Benge Atlee was right after
all, ‘“‘Women are Sheep,”’ and hence the
result of their residence life is no criterion by which to judgethe men. Butin
any case these facts are worth bearing in
mind if we think a man’s residence
alone will provide a panacea for our al
should be discontinued as it is only a
great expense and the team never
wins anything of value. If Dal is
ever to win anything worthwhile,
methods as in the past will have to be
changed.

campus to plot out it’s hills and holManager. | Circulation Assistant Manager. | jows thus preparing themselves for their
‘s DAVID H. HOLLAND. C.R.MACDONALD HOWARD C. OXLEY, B. A.| chosen field. These disciples of the
wae DS B. 2548. B. 25438. tripod are able to shed a tear of sympathy and sincere understanding for
twenty-two thousand students from
c colleges, universities and schools of
DO UNIVERSITIES MATTER? England, who conducted a recent sur_. Universities are coming in for a lot of criticism these days. ae om cng reo oe a ae
_ One of the harshest critics is the disgruntled young graduate who| '” ee peek as a ee ae
a has but lately passed through the college portals into the big world = a ee of what oui have and
_____which appears to have so little use for him. He has some cause to a ar tatara t
-__ ¢riticise. College has cost him four or more years of time, some| ¥ My y cae: ee :
as effort, and quite a lot of somebody else’s money. Yet he frequently See er ee ee epomesc
_. finds that he is less popular with that rare person, the potential employer, than is his high school contemporary who cut off formal
education in favour of an early entry into the world of practical
_ business. Hence his condemnation of the University and his ap___ praisal of the course which led to his degree as a costly delay or even
a setback.

We have settled the question nicely
so far. But in order to protect ourselves from accusations of prejudice we
have solicited the aid ot public opinion,
that decisive curb of human actions.
Our efforts have been directed towards
the manner in which the public receives
female physicians.

 

By having this “house league”
hockey, the coach would be able to
look over his available material, practices would be more organized after
Christmns the coach having a good
idea of how and where to try his men.
It would also enable about 40 players
to turn out which is a greater number
than has turned out in the past.

Men by an overwhelming majority
favored male doctors. This was so not
merely because it seemed more natural
to have male M. D.’s but because men
made unquestionably better physicians.
Most ot those quized seemed to think
women’s place to be in the home and
not in Medicine.—But stop, we’ll discuss that some other time!

This year there is lots of material,
in addition to most of last year’s team
Methods have been changed as to the
picking of the team. Potter Oyler is
going to coach the team and with your
backing he will produce a winning one.

Versity:

East is east and west is west but Toronto debaters upheld the good influence
of West on East. There was a motion
d, before the House “that this House de,| Plores the effects of Western ideason
the Orient,” and it was overwhelmingly defeated. Arguments upholding
the resolutions were based on the idea

You can judge the fairness of our
decision when we actually questioned
the women concerning the feasibility
of femalesin Medicine. The great majority of them favored male doctors.
A few said they would like to have
doctors of their own sex for a limited
number of cases. But all admitted
they didn’t possess sufficient confidence
in their own sex to have them actually
undertake the handling of the cases,

This argument may prove either that employers are stupi
that the market for graduates is temporarily poor; that some people
might as well stay away from college anyway, or that there is little
ere actical content in a university education to fit a person for making
a living in this modern age. Take which conclusion you will and ehiicansideniberacy education and: ehere i still no case for the abolition of universities. When we hand nicism tawards befigion are incompaL dg ment on the merits of OnE aE e Sey ay the ae tible with the introspection of the East.
graduation e are, perhaps, acting prematurely. It woul "|For the opposition facts were brou ht

able to let two or three decades of living pass by before our |, 0° U1 Opposition tacts were Drought
And here we may allude to an observation of |" Conceming the expansion of the East
a recent article; ‘Unless we are prepared to e = . er ae ceo
that « d professions and political and state services| te er iid labor,--in short the "crn
ean still be properly manned if the whole nation ceases its “educa- SGbean Gt thé Westie workin So ehat
| __ tion” at sixteen or seventeen and learns something ‘‘practical,” bilind ithe Bast’! Politics waa sot
______ like decarbonising or typewriting or turning a piece of wood on a ;

The following -are a few comments
by some of the boys:

Doug Bent—Very good idea, there
is a great amount of material at Dal
and it would certainly help to’ produce
a winning team,

“‘Tiger’? MacKasey—It would enable all interested to play and it would
help the coach to look over his material.

Bob Stanfleld—The idea is good,
hockey should stnrt before Christmas
but I don’t think the Student’s Council

The same opposition was found,
chietly from mother’s themselves, as to
the ability of women as Childrens’
Specialists. The necessary faith in
their abilities was lacking,

oe : will support it,
| Hee 5 te 24 ke ae : ‘ iscussed. 8 The average woman is not nearly so
eS | O exist.’ leged anemic condition.
ie ee lathe, the GEMRVSESS must be permitted to exi oe eee well prepared by nature for the study} ‘Red’? Payne—Hockey has been
oem oc : i Daily: of Medicine asis man. From the very|too slow getting started after Christcommencement it is a rigorous and un-|mas. This idea would help the team
x HOW, MISS MACPHAIL f A ate ae iets a Dal night at the Capitol last week relenting task, which is capable of wear- but I don’t think the Student’s Council
; ese s,-« | erence un ert 1e auspices 0: t e Wor ee enjoyed by n Inrge number of stu-|4"g down the strongest constitution.| will support it.
en ose Bens Mics Agnes MacPhail. member for South-east Grey in the Fed- Student Christian Federation is slated dents, and tor arranging this, the presi-| At the same time women are too emo
Potter Oyler—Three or four years
ago work-outs and practices were held
befure Christmas, but most of the boys
thought it better to spend their spare
time on studies. The turnouts were

tionally unstable; they break down
under great strain and fail when they
jre needed most. In short Medicine
S not a profession for women. They
would be well advised to take a hint

_ eral House, and the despair of her fellow-members in the House, Glace hance dent of the, Students’ Council should
_ delivered a characteristic address to a Halifax audience in the Dal- Awl ooibencn cf cian nonte, | P& Siven credit and be encouraged to
housie gymnasium last Thursday night. Those who went there to about problems of race, unemployment |*12"S° More: +However, the privilege
hear an illuminating talk were doubtless disappointed; on the other awa oan PEG all See fin. | Cf attending was denied to every stuhand, those who expected to listen to an unusual address were not. : © ™| dent who also desired to try out for the

 

_ For Miss MacPhail. with her flair for sensationalism and for start-| ‘7°St #t the moment. Dal debating team as the trials were|!t0m Tennyson, “Woman is the les-/ not large nevertheless the idea is a good
ling her hearers, roundly condemned everything within the wide ‘nee or held on the same night and at the same | S€F man. wat
range of her speech, which covered everything from her latest hob- hour. This was an unfortunate clash_ by, Socialism, to the League of Nations, and wandered over Eng- ibdiniend eae clashing ot dates, since it kept some

lish, Canadian, and American politics. twenty students from seeing the show

. ° and certainly resulted in fewer students
turning out at Sedales. In view ot the
increasing student interest in debating,
this was unfortunate.

_Obviously, there was carelessness
somewhere, for somecne did not take
the trouble to see il the night was open.
We do not know who was the first to
announce their use of the night, but we
believe whoever ‘‘muscled in’’ caused
an umnecessary mix-up. Since the
president of Sodales is also a member
of the Council, it seems that he and the
president of the Council could have
averted the affair; a mere telephone call
would have been sufficient to find out
what was going on that particular
night. It isto be hoped that such overlapping of students’ events will not
occur again,

lst! lade a debe tole cH. Clothing for discriminating students

Athenaeum, always of interest to Dalhousians contains some enlightening and
entertaining articles. The poets and
writers of blank verse seem to abound
at Acadia. A ‘‘co-eds problem” might
interest Sherriff Hall, so also “another
night” might put those who contemplate attending the Law dance in a
thoughtful mood.

a One can well understand why bored members of the House of
_ Commons sit up, and Government supporters look uneasy, as Miss
Fe MacPhail rises to deliver her speeches in Parliament. Having been
duly elected to the Commons the only woman member is doubtless
-__ regarded as a necessary evil which must be borne with patience and
| —_— fortitude. The Federal cabinet no doubt will heartily agree with
' her statement that she is not lonely as the only woman member of
___ the House and add that there are already too many women memL~~ ersi
7

 

 

Overcoats - 
All the latest styles and colors particularly suited
to students—prices are the lowest in years.

Flats: <0

They’re wearing them darker this season.
Shades such as Oxford Grey—Blue and Dark

Brown to match the darker coats.

_ Miss MacPhail is most informal and inconsistent—perhaps con
forming to the characteristics of her sex—in her politics and deci- a

_ sions. At various times she has been a Liberal—a lukewarm sup- y ;

_ porter of MacKenzie King at the present time—a Conservative | Temple University sets the unique

_ an Independent and a Progressive. Her latest brain-child is the|"@cord of having three sets of twins

OC, C. F. party, whose heaviest argument is Socialism and her | 2™ong the student body—all but one

__-_—s greatest antipathy at present is probably the C. O. T. C. _ | having chosen the same faculty.

____ Among the persons and subjects which came within the reach

_ of her flair last week to mention a few, were the British Secretary

_ for Foreign Affairs, the London Economic Conference of 1930, the Barnard College: Every person in
_ economic efforts of the League of Nations, the present labor system, | ‘crested in history or philology will be| ENGINEERING NEWS NOTES.

_ the efforts of statesmen to find a way out of the depression, the|™r than delighted to learn that a

__ Standard of living, the various Disarmament Conferences, theCan-| P*fessor here has discovered that King

Sate _ adian House of Commons, Tariffs, and the condition of the masses. Alfred employed the —_ expression
‘Truly an imposing list. It is a debatable question whether Miss} ¥¢#5:

_ MacPhail, were she in a position of responsibility, would improve
conditions within her sphere; it is Significant that in her entire

speech, which so vigorously condemned everybody and everything ; poe g

connected with the present system, she failed to put forward one], Pennsylvania University: Back

_ constructive solution or theory. Beyond speaking boldly, albeit| ‘the 70's at Pen state college the per
vaguely, of peace the masses,” she glossed over the means| MSsion of the president as well as the
whereby it co Id be accomplished. The most effective answer to|#PProval of the dean of women was

ey : her re of last week would likely be: “how, Miss MacPhail 2” | ®°°ess4ry in order to secure a date with| The surveying class ought to do pretaS SS et) Gy "fac

 

  

The Fall colors in Shirts and Neckwear are here,
a new feature is the English tab collar, which is

unusually swanky when worn with a pure wool
tie.

Shane’s Mens Wear

30 Spring Shop Garden Road

Gs A meeting of the Engineering society
was held last Friday. Louis Petrie
was elected softball manager and John
Proctor was appointed to try and collect a few boxers. The boys are all set
for a party planned for next Monday
at the Waegwoltic.

 

  

Cele oe

 

=
7 a

 

 

ed Oi Me A tate bae oed. ty well with their railway curves after
But nevertheless the colorful Miss MacPhail made a most in Sat marl of pt wo ae
sting address, and her informal met Heals
Ing » and her informal method of speaking charmed Benny: ‘‘Sir I am having difficulty

 

er audience greatly. It would be indeed untrue not to sa |

fo aaa ares ee | ythat! Members of the Royal C :

fiss MacPhail will be thc . ¥ embers o e Koyal College of} with these problems. :

iture Saher uf Be hia tik Welcomed back to Halifax on any | Surgeons in London have succeeded in| Prof: ‘Come up and see me some- discount of 107% allowed to Dal students
cpa ro ake Ae Ra +c eam Ne changing fish into land animals. times.”’

 

y ~ a) . oo —_ . ‘
: ae ha a ae :
eat evs ». mr ‘eV ae 4 <_

ae vz Pir * ao ee
ee ee ee Be ohn aot aa ee

 
   
     
     
    
        
       

Rees

# Rs Fae ic week and I am told that
| Plast week’s comment was better. Ian
McKeigan said he almost laughed. So
ith this inspiration I take up my sister's per, borrow some ink from the
neighbour, swipe some paper frcm a
a notebook my other sister borrowed
_ from one of her school chums, sit down
yy to the desk that a creditor threatened
to take out, use the seventy-five shift
play and begin to elaborate on the
events which I hope are the topics of
} oe interest for the week.
i + ~ t ee ee
~ ___It is rumoured that the wedding scene
in the Freshmen Glee Club show caused quite a bit of havoc. Ritchie Douglas claims the necking part took at least
two minutes. That little incident, ne
clainis, spoilt the show for him. There
is no doubt Rudd played his part well
_ and in fact a certain freshette has entered her last Glee Club Show.

Fra

‘ “~ é

ee

  

    
   
   
   

     

 
   
  
 

2 ot >
pa

    
  
   
  
 

        
     
  
 
   
    
    
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
    
   
     
   
  
       
 
     
 
   
        
     
     
     
 
     
   
     
    

    
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
    

a -Here’s a good one. Dean Smith,

___ while speaking to the first year law stuey? dents the other day on advertisements,
read them the following example:
a “The rumble seat holds two comfortably and there is also room for a golt
ae bag.”’ The lines are curved and flow--—- ing,”? and I am not speaking of Mae
ss West boys,’’ built for style and comfort,
with speed and excess power.” I
might also add that Dean Smith has
finally sold his farm Blackacre.

: Things curious seydents would like
to know:

Who was all dressed for the Med.
dance last week and the boy friend
didn’t show up?
How many girls came home from this
a ue dance with their escorts?

 

  

Ee a - How much is a college girl eines to
i her ‘country? With rouge, lipstick,

‘and powder, it is very difficult to esti= “mate them at their face value.

- Mrs. Smith: ‘‘How is your son getting along in his medical studies?”
_- Mrs. Donohue: ‘Fine, he can already cure very small children.”

Notice.

For every dollar spent in fines the
library will give one refill of ink.

 

- Will the student who borrowed $5

~* from a budding barrister locker in the
- gymnasium, please return the same.
His locker will be left open Friday from
12-1, so when you get the chance re4 place it.

—______—~.>-a___—__

- Ralph Hardwick says that she will
. Killam if he doesn’t Winn a scholarship
~~ this year.

Tt wouldn’t seem to be Long if he
didn’t want to go to Sackville—that’s
what a yearning ‘‘Art’’ does.

. ‘Doc Yeo has revised the calculations
of his former beloved partner and colS _ league, Doc Bent. Doc Yeo says that
itis 90% and 9% as estimated by Bent.
Lots of Lab work this summer, Doc
   
  

|G. A. McDonald

| Tobacconist

ie:

 

| a 1 Complete Range of Pipes

| 2B e. to $7.00

soon regretted the impulse that had

establishment and, explaining my pre
     

from now on, not to say anything that
can be deemed sensible.”

the idea of purposely embracing the
role of a fool.

sisted, what less exacting role could
you'wish? Besides you can be sensible
if you are at the same time platitudinous.”

that a platitude isa fundamental truth
sent begging to the uncharitable dcor
of Inaction.

  

of dust from my shoulder,

‘enance the idea that institutions may

 

| a history.”

|i have just said. The striped trousers
ay have : a eso origin in the peculiar

ach
“dcast
; aS | When the time for voting arrived each

  

(Conttnued from page 1)

 

The Sunjunkian
- J To the Editor,

Wer pers The Dalhousie Gazette.

Deprived of the encouraging indivi
duality of my acquaintance’s dress I

Dear Sir:

Your musical and dramatic reviewer
has seen fit to pan the first Glee and
Dramatic Club presentation. of the
year. I saw the show and know that
it was worthy of praise and therefure
not rotten. This leaves your reporter
with three meagre excuses for mudslinging, (1) that he is suffering from
dyspepsia, (2) one of the show’s promoters stole his girl, or (3) he does not
know the practical side of the stage and
is consequently worthless as a critic.
My friends tell me the third excuse is
the one point and I must admit the
facts seem to bear out their conclusions.

I trod the boards in the old Dalhousie
barn when we used rope mats for scenery. I’ve held upstoves and doorways
and spouted my lines with the Dalhousie troupers during their three years
of barnstorming the Matitimes, I know
what a Glee Club president is up against
when he attempts to put on something
worth while at Dalhousie.

But apparently this lad has read
“Variety”? and thinks George Barnard
Shaw is a news-reel movie star.

May I correct this would-be Walter
Winchell before he comes into our office sometime and takes the bread and
butter away from we honest scribblers
who are trying to give credit where
credit is due?

He says ‘‘the stage lacked in speed,
pep and variety’’—marked by an absence oj interest, continuity, and action’
The Glee Club’s equipment was destroyed in the fire some time ago.
They have accumulated a few pieces
this year but have not the theatrical
equipment of the Drury Lane theatre
asyet. l[aminformed there is not even
a front drop curtain, which of necessity
slows up action. The reviewer is
wrong in fact as well as theory. The
Choral Society sang one song, not two.
Check up on your mathematics young
man, or Murray Macneill will get you
if you don’t watch out.

Also when the quartette sang the
lights went down and a spot-light (lav‘ish equipment for Glee Club) was flooded on the singers, which makes your reviewer's criticism as wet as Halifax in
October. He pans the Jekylland Hyde
act saying ‘‘a person’s ability to wipgle his ears, metaphorically speaking
does not entitle him to a stage contract.’’ That’s rough stuff to hand
out to a chap that did a good comedy
sketch and put it over, I’ve paid good
money to see worse.

This cevierer ‘‘judges by the applause’’ in some paragraphs although
throughout he is giving personal opinion and very personal opinion at that.
Yet he says, ‘‘the Wedding Scene fell
pretty flat.’ To the best of my knowledge that act won the most applause
of the evening; facts are better than
fiction.

I. got the crack about the ‘‘international dances.” When I pounded out
copy for the Gazette in the answer to
the editor’s call for humorous articles,
I never was so hard up for material
that I had to crack my fellow students’
nationality. -There’s too many other
subjects, I found, at Dalhousie.

The Glee Club have a capable executive this year. Their first show
presented by newcomers who have only
been at college fora period of six weeks,
is to be heartily commended. As en|
old Dalhousie thespian I am proud that
we are getting such excellent talent.
A reviewer, in my opinion, would go
over much better with the students
generally if he would to quote the late
Texes Guinan—‘‘give them a hand”’
and not a hand across the mouth.

Sincerely,

moved me to rid myself of coat and vest
When I had left the train, theretore, I
hastily sought out the nearest clothing

dicament to a clerk asked him if he
thought it necessary for me to buy an
entire suit, having, as I did, a perfectly
good pair of trousers.

“Fortunately,” he said, ‘‘your pants
are striped. ‘This coat and this hat,”
showing me a black swallow-tailed coat
anda dull glossy hat, ‘‘will be just what
you want.”

I tried them on before the mirror and
protested that I had so far seen nobody
dressed in such a manner.

“*You need have no fear,’’ he assured
me, ‘‘it is the traditional dress of the
diplomats. But you must be careful

 
    
 

I confessed that I scarcely relished

  
 

“If you are respected for it,’’ he in
    
  
  
 
 
  
 

By questioning him closely I learned

 
  
 

“It you are called on to address the
people,” he continued, flicking a speck
“remember
to concern yourself at all times with the
intractability of institutions as such,
especially sovereign states and economic systems, never for a moment count
  
  
   
    
   
 
  
  

change to better serve the people’s
needs from which they, presumably,
derive.”

“This uniform,’’ I said encouraginglyif somewhat irrelevantly, ‘‘must have

   

  

“Itisacase which substantiates what

  

y which the diplomats. first
oe votes ‘at their -conclaves.

,| diplomat entered a small compartment

in the door of which were two holes
eee which he stuck his legs, the
left leg to vote yea, and the right one
to vote nay. An international crisis
developed some years ago when a onelegged diplomat made it necessary to
abandon this cherished method of voting. Now, instead of legs, arms are
protruded through the holes. And today most countries are agreed that
arms record votes more effectively and
more appropriately than legs. But it
is generally conceded that should any
nation be so tactless as to appoint a
one-armed diplomat war could not fail
to ensue.”

“‘But why should such secrecy in voting be deemed necessary?”’ ‘ asked
this extracrdinarily we:l-informed clerk.

‘It proceeds very naturally,” he replied, “‘from the first principle ot diplomacy, namely, that no diplomat
shall reveal his stand, on any public
question. Conimit not thyself it reads
in the bible of diplomacy.”

I paid for the coat and hat, took a
final look inthe mirror and left the store.
I had gone scarcely twenty yards when
the clerk ran up breathlessly and,

        
     
   
     
     
     
     
     
          
      
        
      
     
       
       
       
     
         
       
     
       
       
       
     
       
       
           
       
     
   
   
   
     
   
  

Se | eee

‘Above all,’ he said between puffs,
“you must have an unlimited capacity
for tea. It is well, too,’’ he said,
snatching off my hat to reassure himself, ‘that you are bald. You will get
along alright.”

Some days later it occurred to me
that the clerk may have taken advantage of my ignorance of your customs
to sell me an otherwise unsaleable coat
and hat. But I reminded myself of
the unparalleled courtesy accorded me
since my purchase and dismissed the
unkind suspicion at once.

RALPH KELLY MORTON.

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
sevice Bul 376

Service
25c. Rate to Students

    
   
  
  
  
 

     
    
     
     
   
 

  
 

(To be continued.)

 

    
 
 
   
 

   
 

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

Class Parties

Ideal arrangement for supper.
Large Dance Floor.
Large Ladies Room
Inspection Invited

   
  
  
    
  
 
     

  
 
  

 

  
 

| THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

   

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

  

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Students’ Forum

The Editor,
Dear Editor:

I understand that this year’s policy
of the Gazette is to put some pep into
the paper, by criticising things once ina
while instead of lauding eveything sky
high, whether it be good or bad. And
so it has come to pass that everything
from college spirit to the antics of Murray Ryan has been either criticised or
ridiculed. But to criticisesomething
really good in the way of your associate
whose name I know but don’t care to
mention, has criticised the recent Glee
Club show is even more degenerating
to a paper than your former policy.

ARE
Puzzling

4y
TUR
And then, why don’t you get some- =z Os
body who knows what he is writing
about to dothe work. I hear that during the first part of the show, the author
was down in the University Store drinking coffee and talking to Tiger, and the
story itself shows that the man wasn’t
attending, although it would appear
that at least he did read the programme. For instance, why did he say that
the Choral Society rendered two numbers when one had to be cancelled, even
though it was stated on the programme
that there would be two— Was the
writer aware that the waltz number so
capably done by Roger Rowley and
Ruth Skaling received more applause
than any other part of the Freshman
Varieties- Why then did he state tha
it was tedious? 'And why does he comt
pare their waltzing with the tap-dancing of Marylin Miller in the way he
does? Perhaps his only interest in a
dance is the leg area exhibited, and to
him who finds this enthralling, a waltz
number would certainly be ‘“‘tedious”’.

Then he says that it was Max Ableson's ability to wiggle his ears that put
him on the stage. I don’t remember
Mr. Ableson wiggling his ears, and I
don’t think he even knows how. It is
a fear which is extremely difficult to accomplish, and there are very few people
who are able to doit. But putting all
aside it would really have been senseless
for him to have wiggled his ears. in that
particular part at any rate, because earwiggling is one of the few things for
which donkeys are famous, and Mr.
Hyde would never want to appear to
have the same quaiity as a donkey,
when he was more iike a gorilla. Oh,
Yes! there isa caste system even among
animals,

And there was that one about the
Wedding Scene being cut out of the
show after the third rehearsal. In my
mind that was what the whole show was
about, and being as the reporters of
both the local newspapers judged it to
be the best part of the show, it makes
me wonder if your own reporter knew
what he was talking about when he
wrote that.

The whole story was cruelly unjust
to those who did their best to make the
show a success and to the paper for
whom he wrote it, and everyone on the
campus to whom I have spoken about
the subject feels the same way. If you
didn’t see the show, and don’t believe
me, ask someone and see what ha ppens.

 

10 for 10¢
20 for 20¢
25 for 25¢

—and in flat tins of
fifty and one hundred.

 

President Glee Club.
Dear Sir:—

I read with great astonishment the
review that was printed in our official
paper of the Glee Clubs first presentation of this year.

May I say that I enjoyed seeing the
Freshman show, which was in my opinion the best I have witnessed since
attending Dalhousie. I haven’t the
ability to criticize the so-called critiques
write-up of the show, but I would like
to point out one thing that this person
seems to have forgotten, namely—
that initiation was put aside last year
with the idea that the senior class men
would jend a hand in encouraging the
Freshman class by ‘showing them the
ropes” and what happens?—after three
weeks of hard work, and it was hard
work, the Freshmen put on a show
which in the reporters own words drew
great applause and was enjoyed by the
audience; and then the Gazette comes
forth with an article which without a
doubt cannot but discourage the new
members in our midst at the very start
ot their college career, for I have heard
some of the entertainers themselves
say that never again would they take
part in a Glee Club Show if that article
represented the spirit in which their
efforts were taken by their fellow DIhousians. And how may I ask, if that
is the attitude taken by the people who
help in putting on our shows, are we to
bring back the ‘‘good old days”
are forever being lamented in our week
ly paper?

 

Yours truly, Yours truly

THE VOICE OF MANY. A MED.

Through Service We Grow - - 
Our motto is to serve the intzregts of our customers. A mere casual
purchase is merely an intoduction—and we do find that it pays to stock
really fine clothes . at reasonable prices. Value in price and in quality is our
watchword, anv we invite you to inspedt our line of mens clothing.

It is overcoat time and we have them ready to put on or tailored to
your individual requirements. The new fall winter suits are a revelation
in advanced styling and moderate prices.

S H A W

 

OF GRANVILLE
STREET

 

 

 

Dalhousie University
Store

BIRKS=

he Fraternity and Sorority Mem
ak bers may often make substan
L U N C H tial savings on guards for their
pins by buying them from Birks.

WITH US Prices submitted without ob
ligation.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

TO-DAY

WE SERVE A GOOD ONE
FOR

20c.

a 2g OPE )
gs in Er

Some Things

May be you can’t pull a bunny
out of a silk topper but pulling
a good cigarette out of a Turret
package is the easiest thing you
know. For every cigarette in
it is good—as cool, as fragrant,

ever touched a light to. There
is no trick about Turret goodness

tobacco.

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

CIGARETTES

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

 

which_

 

: r - § ‘
he oblit * 4 at ~e
4 Hier Dace eaten” ~: Sees

Page Three

HN

fig

satisfying a smoke as you

. they're made from better

 

Pine Hill Notes —

Heard in a Student Body meeting.
C. M. Nicholson, the Pope speaking:
‘And I tell you, gentlemen, the conditions in the lavatories have become
gradually worse since I’ve been here.”
Not many Popes would admit to a
thing like that._..Almost as bad as the
classical mistake of Pope Fraser last
year. “‘The next thing to come up is
our suppers.”’ And they were elected
as model examples of clean-mindea,
healthy Theologs,leadersof men! Tsk!
Tsk!

 

Murray MacMillan reports that the
certain young lady with whom he had
so many delightful dances at the Glee
Club was “‘very light on his feet.”

Many of the fellows turned out on
Tuesday night to see ‘Berkeley
Square’ in spite of the rain—the picture was quite appropriate.—and the
“Cameo” did a rushing business afterwards. We wonder if the person with
Fraser Nick was supposed to be there.
Remember, Alex, you're a big boy now,
so please don’t put the salt in the sugar
any more—and the big he-men with
you ordering sundaes instead of coffee
and sandwiches! Pansies! Lloyd pretended that he was a knight of old clearing a path with his trusty sword—it was
only an umbrella, but Lloyd DID have
a lot of fun with it.

 

 

GAUVI

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

Dalhousie University

 

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing Service

See Our Pictorial Work
For Gifts

 

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B.6992.

 
 

 

Ss wa ea OPE Uae LIRA Nn 6 pele pala a a Le i
on = x i * J ~ ’

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

November 16th, 1933

: 3 ERS ELIMINATED IN RUGBY AND SOCCER ..

   

ee 1 Wins F, inal
an me, But Loses

_ League

fa} ttn their last x oes game of the
fetes City League Dal. defeated
_ United 6-0 at Studley on Saturday.
_ Wanderers by virtue of their draw
game with Acadia however clinched
first place and the right to continue in
es ie the McCurdy Cup playdowns.
eS The Dal-United game produced only
at ay mediocre rugby, there being a great
deal of loose play.’ This was due no
doubt to the heavy condition of the
Ba - field.
: os ~The first period was fairly even,
it = neither side having any advantage in
territory or in scoring chances. The
heavier United scrum heeled the ball) ;
3 ; ‘regularly but the hard-tackling Dal.
backfield made up for this.
a, Be _ -Timmie Hunter, slipping United
Githree-quarter: threatened the Dal line
quite often but was closely watched.
Buckley and Oyler made several nice
- gains for the Dal team.
In the second period the play grew
- ached and there was a great deal of
~ Joose play. Charlie Miller about mid--_-way in the period dribbled over the
United line fora try. Percy Sheppard
failed to kick the goal. Near the end
of the game Miller and Buckley fol~ lowing up a kick, blocked the return
punt by Smith and Buckley, recov ering
quickly scooped up the ball and ran
thirty yards to plant the ball directly
behind the goal-posts. Sheppard failed to gain the extra two points.
‘i The game as a whole was rough and
x - produced only one or two good plays.
‘ a Dal, squad appeared to be disorganized and did not play well together.
- - For Dal Bernie Ralston and Jack
_ Buckley were the pick of the backfield,
while Miller of the forwards played
heads-up rugby. Beb Schwartz handBe led the whistle. .
ea Tihs |

; i
lt Se. eee ee ba 5 ;
_ a

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

“y BT
-  McSweene (wing forward, forwards;
Crosby, Thompson, Buckley, Oyler,
- three-quarters; Ralston, Crease, halves
Connor, full-back.

» r
bo nee ; :

eee It seems that the assistant man_--——_ ager of the rugby team has been some
what lax this year. Rumors have been
going around of lost footballs, etc.,

also non-attendance at essential pracAce. tices.

—_—

ore S. C. M. SUPPER.

pb On Friday November 17th, the Stureef dent Christian Movement will hold a

supper in St. Andrew’s Church Hall,
fe Coburg Road. Details will appear
next week,

 

Soccer Team

and Dal.

eS Bent, “Darrah: ed |

 

Loses ‘To R. C.R.

A very high and interesting exhibition of soccer was given by the R.C.R.
teams at the Exhibition
grounds on Saturday last. Both teams
enjoyed the game to the full and good
sportsmanship was in evidence throughout. The Dalhousie team had the
advantage as far as speed and stamina
were concerned but the Army men
showed up to advantage as a working

unit. Their combination was almost
perfect.
First Period.
Dal defended the leeward goal

against a heavy wind, but kept the ball
in enemy territory, giving the R.C. R.’s
many close calls. A very exciting five
minutes was in evidence when the R.
C. R.’s were awarded two penalty kicks
and a free kick. None of these were
successful, but the ball hit the top
crossbar for both penalty kicks. Forward the latter part of this period the
R. C. R. centre forward, headed in the
ball from a well-directed corner kick.
R. Cc. R.—1. Dal.—3
As soon as the teams changed ends
the wind died down, leaving Dal. without the advantage that R. C. R’s had
in the first period. - However, CousinsHix scored almost immediately froma
long shot, making the scores even.
The Dal. backs who played a splendidi
game in the first period, seemed to be
tired out, with the exception of Ballwho gave a great exhibition as a full
back throughout the entire game.
ith about ten minutes to go the R.
C. R.’s made a clever combination attack and scored. Dal. took the ball
down the field and very nearly tied the
score immediately and kept the ball
down in R. C. R. territory to no avail,
when the game ended. R. C. R.—2.

DAL.—1.

1

The Dal. eleven, due to quizzes on
Monday and Tuesday, had to cancel
their trip to Acadia University. Acadia University extended the Dal.
eleven a very cordial invitation.

————— i

University of Chicago: has the
largest football stadium on the continent. In is capable of seating 110,000
people.

Boston University: A visuai education course is offered by the school of
education. A series of films, each one
a talkie featuring some leader in the
fie:d of education, wi.l form the basis
of the lectures.

 

|) Bixtdae Shoes - | A Good Foundation

 

 

 

SPORT
COMMENT

‘

Another football season closed for
Dalon Saturday. Wanderers by playing a draw with Acadia thereby won
the City League by one point.

Dal started the season in fine style],

by winning three straight ‘eames, but
straight defeats by Wanderers and
Acadia put them out of the running
for the title.

It seems sort of odd that United when
playing Dal used their best men and
played with great spirit but when playing either Acadia or Wanderers they
seemed to lay down on the job.

—

‘“Mac” has introduced a new style
of rugby to Dalhousie, a style that
takes more than one season to learn,
With the material available here the
style should begin to count next year.

ae

Buckley and Ralston played consistently good rugby all season. Bernie’s tackling was a feature of every
game, while the rest of the backfield
seemed to have their off-days.

Dal’s great weakness was in the for
ward line. The scrum on the averagheeled the ball about four times a game.
They also showed a weakness in not
being up on the ball.

The manager Ernie Richardson, the
assistant-manager ‘‘Doc’’ Byrne and
the coach John MacCarthy deserve a
great deal oi praise for their voluntary
time and trouble.

And now Basketball and Hockey.

Wanderers—9.
Dalhousie—8.
Acadia—6.
United—1.

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

Interfaculty
Rugby.

|
:

Playing on a snow-covered field Law
defeated Frosh 9-3 on Friday at Studley. The game was well played considering the condition of the ball which
became very heavy as the game progressed. The score just about indicates the play.

The heavier Law team controlled the
ball. On a nice backfield play, Batt,
flashy three-quarter, opened the scoring with a fine run. The attempt at
goal failed.

In the second period Law secured two
tries to the Frosh’s one. McGilvary
made it 6-0 on a nice play and Roy
MacDonald added another to make it
9-0. The Frosh then put on the steam
and Merkel plunged over the line to
end the scoring. The attempts at goal
all failed.

Batt and MacDonald for Law and
Morrison and Gosse for Frosh were the
pick. John McCarthy handled the
whistle.

Line-up:

Law—Ferguson, McGilvary, Squires,
McDougall, McCulloch, Sutherland,
forwards; Hinchy, Pendergast, Batt,
Johnson, three-quarters; Khattar, Mac
Donald, halves; Manning, tull-back.

Frosh—MacKenzie, Dobson, Barrie,
Murray, Christie, Morrison, forwards;
Foster, Merchant (Miller), Grant,
Merkel, three-quarters; Gardiner,
Flynn, halves; Gosse, full-back.

MEDICINE DEFEATS ARTS, 2-0.

In a regular game of the Interfaculty
League, Medicine defeated Arts 2-nil.
The score came as a result of a beautiful penalty kick by Krebs, husky Medieine star.

As in the last game between these
two teams, Medicine controlled the
ball in the scrum, Arts playing mostly
a defensive game. The backfield of
the Med’s team played well, handling
the ball in good style and often makinp
long gains.

Arts came near scoring on two or
three occsaions near the end of the
game but costly fumbles ruined their
chances. Both teams tackled well
and did not kick to touch a great deal.

For the winners Fairstein, Young
and Krebs were outstanding, while for
the losers Stanfield, MacDonald and
Gaum played heads-up rugby.

Coach MacCarthy handled the whistle satisfactorily.

 

——

 

FRIDAY SATURDAY

‘NIGHT FLIGHT’

 

  
 

Dal Girls Play

Dalhousie co-eds bowed in defeat to
Edgehill Saturday with a score 2-0.
The game was a real battle throughout.

Doris Black of Edgehill played a
very good game. On the first goal she
dribbled the ball from beyond the 25 yd.
line and shot the goal without nssistance

Dalhousie team, considering the
amount of practice they have had
together showed good team work.
The passing was exceptionally well
done in the forward line although the
wings were rather weak. Margaret
Kerr, Vician Douglas and Flo Keniston played a good attack game. Mar
Keniston, Barb Walker and Marg
Woolaver held Edgehijl very well and
many times p assed the ball out to the
wings for an advance play. Edgehill,
however, managed to take the ball
away from Dal every time.

Line-up:
Edgehill. Dalhousie.
Goal.
Penelope Pattee. M. Davidson.
Fullbacks.
Mary Miles. Mar Keniston.

Nancy Thorne.
K. MacDonald.
Halfbacks.

Babsie Harris. Barb Walker.

Frances Robenson.
Center Half.
Audrey Roughton. Marg. Woolaver.
Center Forward.

Kathleen Crowe.

Doris Black. Ruth Skaling,
Inners.
Flo Keniston.

Vivian Douglas.

Mardi Jones.
Joan Furlong,
Dot Tyers,

Wings.
Madelene Crowe.
Tokie Dumaresq.

Isabel MacKie.
G. Cooke.

  

Halifax Transfer

C—O

ON WITH THE DANCE
but not without
JERRY NAUGLER’S
tune masters
Booked for the big dances this

year
CALL JERRY L9238

 

Dalhousie Students

We thank you for your patronage. We feel that our service

must meet with your approval.
Drop in any evening and you will
realize that this is the place
where the college men congregate.

A hot cup of coffee and sandwich followed by a generous cut

of pie or pastries is a typical
night lunch.

We are onthe iob early anda late
with a fine assortment of eats,
fountain service, confectionery,
fruit and smokes.

GARDEN SWEETS AND
LUNCHEONETTE

Marg. Kerr. IR. H. Back—Fairstein,

pHonE B.7138|| R

American

Football
Started Here

Before a large crowd of spectators on
Saturday morning, Dal. defeated St.
Mary’s 13-nil. The game was very
good considering the fact that it was
the first game for St. Mary’s and that
many of the Dal. boys lacked practice.

Fanston right half-back opened the
scoring for Dal on a nice play in the
second quarter. Dal elected to play
for the extra point (forward pass) instead of kicking were successtul. This
made the score 7-0.

Fuerstein, left half-back got the second touchdown in the third quarter,
but Dal failed to gain the extra point
the attempt to kick the goal being
blocked.

Dal incurred quite a few penalties
for infringements and except for the
delay, the game proved very interesting.

Dal Line-up:

Centre—Glorioso, L. tackle—Dubilier, R. Tackle—Pat MacDonald, L.
L. Guard—Galotti, R. Guard—Rosenberg, L. End—Gladstone R. End—
Mardlestam, L. Half-Back— Miller,
Quarter-back
—Stone Full-back—Kribs.

Spares—Cram, Fuerstein, Goldman,
Lyman, Puritz, Ingham.
epee

The mystery as to why Latin should
occupy such an honored place on our
university cirriculum is not yet solved.

FORUM
O FRIDAY NIGHT

ATLANTIC
SEA-GULLS

CHAMPIONS OF
U ii ae ie
Vi WOLVERINES

Regular Prices

Phone L-1640
B-7735

 

 

 

 

At This Restaurant

There is a varied menu that
grows in favor daily—

The secret of a good meal is
good food carefully prepared and
artistically served.

Here in the largest dining
room of any Halifax restaurant
you can delight your palate and
please your purse at the same
time. Full course dinner is only
25c. For the really particular
appetite there are always special
dishes in season.

French pastry is of course a
specialty with us.

French Cafe

, 7

 

 

Whether it’s a skyscraper or a
man’s wardrobe, it’s the foundation that counts’ Birkdale
Shoesfprovide just the foundation you need—-comfortable
fit—months and months of
hard wear—-smart appearance
throughout their lifetime.

 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 

Hollis St.

“one block from Station

 

Just around the corner from the
Forrest Building.

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

    
   
     

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for complete Suit or Overcoat.

GARRICK

Balance of Week

‘Tugboat Annie’

Starring

Marie DRESSLER
Wallace BEER Y

Mon. Tues.
SS ee:

HELEN HAYES
ROBERT MOTGOMERY

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A,. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

CASINO

SATURDAY—MONDAY
TUESDAY
November, 18-20-21

ARIZONA to
BROADWAY

A Sprightly Comedy
With Music.... With

JAMES DUNN
JOAN BENNETT
HERBERT MUNDIN

 

160 Spring Garden Rd.
j

There’s an extensive range of up~
to-the-minute models for welldressed men and young men.
They're all carefully styled from
fine leathers by skilled Canadian
craftsmen. We urge you to see
them for yourself. Sizes 6 to 11.

pir $5.50

C1.¢66ey 4 wo Kb.

Pair $6.50

ie gd wee ae

 

   

i Sata SONA eee

HE GAVE HIS
WIVES A PAIN
IN THE NECK

And did his necking with an
axe. Henry, The Eighth wonder of the world! And this pic
ture...the wonder of all time!
LONDON FILMS presents

| CHARLES
LAUGHTON
| Che Pivate Life of

 

   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

    
 

    
  
  

 
    
 

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per Ib
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.

   
  
  
      
    
 
     
  

 
  
  
 

 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  

Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough
for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

  

     
   
 

     
 
 

Eaton's Second Floor

  

  
  
   
 

      

‘es T. E. ATON oo L 2300 HENRY Vill “ANOTHER ind
Halifax Steam Laundry ]| | MON-TUE-WED-THUR LANGUAGE?’’ eee

 

 
