 
  
    
  
   
 
      
  
    
  
 

a !

 

er :
rn
JE

: eA eels re

to students by the Council in token of

ee

Sodales ‘‘D's’’ were given to Leonard }

 

FINAL EDITION

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA March ‘leg es

 

 

 

 

_ Presented To
50 Students

As announced during the Munro}

Day celebration, 50 awards were made

their efforts in the various activities.

The highest award and most sought
after event, the Malcolm Honor Key,
was given to Potter Oyler and Wayne
McKee.

Glee Club gold ‘‘D’s”’ were as follows: Warren Beazley, Arthur Long,
Bob. Weitz, and. Bob Donohoe. The
inter-Society Shield was won by Pine

Hawco, Roy Lawrence, Irving. Rubens
Harrison Cleveland, Bruce Ferguson,
Ronald Copp, and J. R. H. Sutherland.
The D. A. A. C. award for debating
was won by Beth Atherton, Phyllis
Burns and Edith Blair.

Felt athletic ‘‘D's’’ were given out
TG}.

Football—Gordon Darrach, Waldo
Goodman, H. Connor, Doug. Crease,
Allie MacSween,Perce Sheppard, Doug
Murray, Jim. Crosby, Geo. Thompson,

Jack Buckley, Bernie Ralston, Doug }

- Bent, Jerry Tanton and Potter Oyler.
~ Hockey—Victor Kyte, Doug Bent,.
Ht Connor, Jack Buckley, Jack Grant,
y Ellis, Cappy Cook, Russel Brykoe Sis.
Bas ball—Doug Bitice: Bill Gladne, Sam Fairstein, Milton Mus"grave, ‘Don Bauld, Bernie Ralston and
Charlie Anderson.
Tennis—Victor Oland,
ed Don Sinelair.

The coaches, John McCarthy of
football and Jack Thomas, basketball,
were given special ‘‘D’s’’ for their ser
. vices. A gold “D’’ was given to Prof.
Murray} Macneill in recognition of
-what he has done for the D. A. A, C.
and for his ability in skipping curling
teams to Dominion Championships.

  

Don’ Bauid,

 

~toe

King’s college was visited by three of
its old students on Saturday. Murray
Zinck, Don Doyle and L. deB. Holly

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
   
  
 
 

Meeting Thursday

tt ee eo eeee

As announced on the bulletin boards,
the last meeting of the D. A. A. C.
will be held on Thursday, March 22nd.
in the gym, at 12.10 p.m. This will
include all the final business of the
year—reports from the various managers, a report on Interfaculty sport
and the announcements of the new
managers. There will also be motions
to change the constitution with regard to making badminton a major
sport and changing the time of the
election. of the captain of the football
captain. The Gazette able
to learn what plans Messrs. Thompson
and Richardson have about remodeling
the D. A. A. C., as promised fast fall,
but it may be that they will. have something to say at thé meeting.

Since the meeting is open tovall male
students, the Gazette is annually requested to urge a full attendance, and
in view of thé fact that the D.A. A. C.
has the spending of more of the $10
fee than any other body, it would seem
advisable for them to be present.

Was not

 

 

Quebec Justice
To Lecture Here

Continuing the practice of exchange
lectures between Dalhousie Law School
and other Canadian law schools. the
first visitor this year to Dalhousie will
be the Hon. Mr. Justice E. Fabre
Surveyer of the Superior Court of Quebec and a member of the McGill
Faculty of Law. Judge Surveyer is a
noted author and contributor to legal
periodicals in Canada and also on comparative law. He will be heard at the
Dalhousie Law School in three lectures
on March. 19, 20 and 21, at 11 a. m
in the Moot Court Room. The subject of his special lectures will be:
“Differences between Quebec Laws
and the Laws of the Common Law
Provinces in the matter of Minors,
| Married Women and Torts.”

Mr. George Crouse, member of the
Dalhousie Law School staff, will represent Dalhousie in exchange lectures

made brief calls at the Residence and| a+ Osgoode Hall Law School during

renewed contact with their Alma Mater.

 

Vice- President

 

cue Miss Beth hiker, next year’s
vice-president of the Student’s Council,
‘is an Arts student and will graduate
in 1935. She has served on. several
class executives on the house commit-tee at Shirreff Hall and has twice been
vice-president of Sodales. Last year,

_ she played on the girl’s ground hockey
- team, and this year represented Dal

against a debating team from Acadia.
This is her second year on the Council.
She is a member of Kappa Beta Phi
corey, and is its present secretary.

the week of March 25, when he will
give three addresses on the subject:
“Critique of Canadian Criminal Law.”’

Dawson Club
Holds Meeting

 

A meeting of the Dawson Geological
Club was held on Sat..Feb. 17th at the
home of Ernest Higgins. Professor
Griffen of the classical department read
an interestifig paper on “The Eruption
of Vesuvius in 79 A. D.”’ in which he
recounted the facts of this historic
eruption. He supplemented his lecture with extracts from Diocassius
and two letters written by Pliny the
younger to Tacjtus, one describing the
death of Pliny the Elder at Vesuvius,

_and the other relating the experience of

| Pliny the Younger at Macenum during
the eruption.

On March 3rd, the regular meeting
of the club was held at Shirreff Hall.
At this meeting Prof. King gave a talk
on the metal sodium, describing the
way in which it was discovered, the
different processes by which it is prepared for commercial use, its properties physical and chemical and the
numerous uses to which it is put.

The next meeting of the club will be
held in the chem. theatre, March 19th.
Geological moving pictures will be
shown and explanations made by Prof.
Douglas. All who are interested are
cordially invited to attend.

 

 

 

Final D. A. < C.| We ovgak s ne » McKee ‘And Potter'|

Oyler Win Distinction

 

Winners of one of the most. coveted awards for student activities during the term were announced at Wednesday night’s Mun
ro Day activities as Potter

Oyler, third year
Miss W ayne McKee, Senior Commerce student.

Law student, and
The announcement

of the Malcolm Honor Award was made by George Thompson,
Freshman Representative, from the stage to the audience, and
indication of the popularity of the choice was shown in the ap
plause.

The Malcolm Honor Award is given
annually by the Students Council to
the student who has rendered best all
round service to his er her college,
and is presented in th. student's gradu
ation year.

Miss McKee, of the girl's
award, has taken an active part in stu
She is
year's

winner

Life Vicegraduating

dent organizations.
this
class in Commerce

President of

and among offices

she has held are vice-president of Shir| reff Hall, the
merce Society, and vice-president of
her Sorority, Kappa Beta Phi.

Moot Court
Case Slated
For Tonight

vice-president of Com

In the final Moot Court CompetiBill Jost and Howard
Oxley, counsel for appellants, will apof
the respondent’s counsel
and J. A, F.. MalSmith Shield,
Court Room, this

tion for the year,
peal to the case Attorney-General
Cooke,
being J. L. Dubinsky
ler. The trial,
will be in the Moot

Vs.

for the
evening at € p. m

Sitting on the bench will be the Hon.
Justice Doull, and W. C. MacDonald,
K.. C., Nova Scotia
Barristers Society.

President of the

Prepare Plans
For Convocation

Although their plans are not com

pleted, and several plans are still up
in the air, the committee in charge of
Convocation announces that this year’s

the ten day
May 5

Convocation Day, May 15.

programme will be during
period from Saturday, until

The programme will be composed
of activities during every afternoon
and evening somewhat similar to last
There
will be at least three theatre parties,

year with added attractions.

several dances, picnics, teas and scav
”

enger parties.

Neen nnn en nee nee eg ara a ate epee rs gt
ee

Potter Oyler,
award is a peculiarly happy selection:
He has taken an active part in practi
'cally every student activity and sport

|

onthe campus. He has acted as President ef Sodales, D. A. A. C., and
Round Table Club, and served onthe
Council of the Students, Dalhousie
Gazette and year Book. He has been
a valued player on both the senior football hockey
past two years was the efficient coach

He will

and teams, and for the

of the hockey team. graduate

in Law this spring.

 

Laurie Teasdale

Heads Council

March 11th, 1934.
in the Law
on the above
date with the Secretary-Treasurer
the chair.

met
30 p. m.

The Council-Elect
Classroom at 2.

in

As the meeting was called for the

election of officers for the coming year,

nominations were called for the officers

of President and Vice-President with

the following results:

PRESIDENT: Mr,

Mr: “

Fisher,
Teasdale.
VICE-PRESIDENT Miss Atherton,
Miss Sumner.
Mr. Miss Atherton

were elected.

Teasdale and

Nominations for the Executive and

Finance Committee resulted as follows:

Mr. Musgrave.

Mr. Fisher.

Mr. Gordon Thompson.

All three were declared elected.

The Committee of N
tives appointed were:
Miss Atherton.
Mr. Fisher.
Mr. Teasdale.
An invitation to attend the meeting
of the outgoing Council was extended.

‘ine representa
On motion the meeting adjourned
at 3 p.m. |
Respectfully submitted,
F. H. WIGMORE,

Secretary, pro tem.

 

winner of the men’s

Official Student Pablicatien at Dalhousie University

 

Applications For
Gazette Offices

Applicaticns for the positions
|| of Editor-in-Chief and Business
| Manager of the Dalhousie Ga
zette for the term 1934-35, will be
received by the undersigned up
to the evening of March 3lst.

Applications will also be re
ceived for the position of Property Manager of the Glee Club,
up to the same date.

M. M. RANKINE,

| Secretary-Treasurer.

Glee Club
Stages Best
Show of Year

Forsaking the customary travesties
on cheap vaudeville, the Dalhousie
:

 

Glee Club presented an outstanding
success in the shape of a musical comedvy on Munro Day. The costuming,
the singing, both chorus and solo, the
settings and the acting in general and
particular were excellent. The entire
production gave evidence of intelligent
management, careful study and persistent concentration. Mr. Connolly
deserves the gratitude of the entire
University for producing one of the
best shows ever put on by amateur
talent.

The play, has
been adapted so as to be applicable to
Dalhousie, thereby giving it a personal
touch appreciated more perhaps by the
students than by the faculty. Wellwritten and with clever lines, it moved

'along with a snap and an _ interest
arousing plot that carried the audience
'with it, occasioning frequent and re| peated applause, although why it is
necessary to applaud every bon mot
is slightly uncertain. We cannot control our mirth, but the majority of us
can control our hands.

The individual actors played their
roles well, showing not a trace of affectation of strain. Those who
were playing the roles of our more important faculty members made an excellent job of the business, carrying it
to just the right distance; particular
credit must be given to Miss Martha
Keniston for her part as Mrs. Stanley.
Much can be said also of the acting of
the Misses Jost and Skaling.

based on college life,

or

which are nearly always
yood, were especially good, with Miss
Crandall usual taking the
The chorus singing was well carried
out, the entire cast entering in the put
The solos,

as lead

ting action and a swing into it.
The entire
applause given them,
the appreciation of the entire student
ody for the great amount of time and |
labour they have gone to.
Marrying Marion’’ marks a_highwater mark in Glee Club levels and |
it'is hoped that having taken a step
in the right direction, the path will he

cast justly merited the |

and further merit |

which

followed.

Final Meeting Of
Sodales Thursday

 

The final meeting of Sodales Debat
ing Society for the present year will be] ¢,.
held in Room 3 of the Arts Building at hockey

12 noon, Thursday, April 22nd.

Besides the regular business, next
year's officers will be elected, and the
executives have arranged for short
addresses by several students on current topics.

 

No. 20

   

“Aenea Day
Exercises are

Well Staged

Presenting a continuous string of
snappy demonstrations from 8 till 12.30
Wednesday's annual Munro Day celebration proved to be one of the most
successful ever staged. The sincere
thanks of the whole student body is

due to the Alumni and Alumnae Associations. A large and appreciative

attended sports
and tea dance. Astill larger and more
appreciative throng crowded the gym
for the evening's Glee Club show and
dance. Jerry Naugler supplied
superlative music at both dances.

crowd the afternoon

his

Desk-mates from the dusky denizens
of dear old with
honors in the first two events
of the afternoon when they defeated
hard-fighting Studat Softball and Basketball by close
scores.

Forrest swung off
premier
opponents from
ley
The basketball was the most
pitiful for the Studs to witness. Possessing all but two of the Tigers and
Charlie these
boys were expected to waltz away on
the long end of the score. But spectacular Bernie Ralston outwitted them,
keeping the Babes of the Woods one
point ahead at half-time and at the end.

The next feature was a game of mixed
basketball in which the girls wore shorts
and the men A few “PrepPrrps’’ must have been ejaculated in
lieu to this strange state of affairs.
It was almost as out of place as when
tricky Big Jim McLeod tried to slip
between little Eddie Arab’s midget
legs in a boxing match that came later
in the afternoon.

One of the highlights of the afternoons sportive festivities was the badminton match featuring Doug Grant,
Canadian Champion, and Vic Oland,
Dalhousie king of touch and go. Grant
won in hard-fought straight sets. This
pair teamed up with Miss Lilyan Fras
Anderson who refereed,

skirts,

-_ OO

er and Mrs. F. V. Woodbury, in a
mixed match which followed the
singles.

Boxing and wrestling were next on
the programme. In the first boxing
match, smirking Harry Gaum and grinning Don fought a

Heads New Connei /

Glorioso draw.

 

 

The new president of the Students’
Council came to” Dalhousie in 1928,
taking the regular pre-med course and
going into medicine without taking a
degree. He managed the senior hockey team two years ago and has played
medicine in interfaculty football
and basketball. Last year and

ithis year he has been president of his

class in medicine, where he has done
consistently well in his studies, and he
is also secretary of the Medical Society. He is a member of Phi Rho
Sigma.

 
ee ke ee
a .
eae AN,

March 16th. 1984 _

<a’

o en

"EDITORIAL SOE

>

W. H. JOST, B. A.
. " B. 2548. :
a Associates, s : 1
a | ~ Borden Stoddard.
5 & L, Dubinsky.

. W. Burchell. —

“News DEPARTMENT.

—HARRY SUTHERLAND, B5437.
uglas Crease. james MacIntosh,
Arthur Merkel. E. Arab,

SPORTS

- BDITOR—TED CREASE, 85737.
_ Associates: Donald P. ‘Cameron. x
Ruth Skaling.

GIRLS EDITOR: MARTHA KEN ISTON.
_ Associates: Mary Simmonds.
Merle Purtill.

i BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.

ee Me Circulation Assistant Manager
et -PAVID, Mena LLAND. C.R.MACDONALD. BaEKES C OXLEY, B.A.
7 as BZ 2543 - .

THERE’S WHERE THE MONEY GOES.

oi

td.

eeu B01 page six of this issue appears the Gudea financial state
| ment of the Council for the fiscal year 1982-83. This, be it noted,
is not the year in which we are, but the year in which we were,
_ which is to say the year of the MacKenzie Council.

Those who have the faculty of digesting the import of a page of
~ figures will be interested in seeing what became of the ten dollars
they each paid in the Fall of 32. They will note that the year in
- question closed with a surplus of approximately $1700. This, however, should not be held against the MacKenzie Council for, far
from taxing the students of their year for benefit of future ore
ations, the MacKenzie Council spent on its taxpayers over $800
more than it exacted from them. Thesurplusit left was not a sin

ce aoe its doing. It simply cut down a surplus created by its predecesom Bs - gorsin office. Now a surplus is a bad thing—quite as bad, if not as
i at embarrassing, as a deficit. It indicates either over-taxation or un
-wonted curtailment of reasonable expenditures. It is a hardship
o> | Z on the taxpayers of the period in which it is created. It is an ad- ministrative error. We trust that when the present surplus disappears, if it has not already done so, future councils will strike an
_ agreeable balance between revenue and expenditure. Let each

_ year look after its own.
ve Me _._ Besides spending the money it raises, or refraining from raisele ing money it does not need to spend, the Council should apportion

3 <penditures so as to deal out the maximum satisfaction to the

eC e body | of. taxpayers. This is no mean task. It is rendered

e imple by the circumstance that our elective system. pro
lors whose administrative capacity is almost invari
“not gained i in previous Council experience. In the circum
s it is perhaps surprising that our Councils succeed as well

2 ee do.- Since we cannot expect our Councils to be blessed
-- with | omniscience we owe them our constructive assistance. If
there exists a maldistribution of Council funds let the aggrieved

| ° parties bring their grievances at the proper time and in the proper
manner before the new Council. Let the interested parties study
B34 a the expenditures of the past and in the light of their alleged errors
fe recommend policies for the future. By that means and that only,

“ie . we suggest, can an equitable seth Ons of Council funds be ap
ao ie proached.

As

re

- 3 FINIS.
Ww ITH this issue the activities of the Gazette staff for the regular college term come to an end. The present is the twenEs isstie of the Gazette, since last fall, and though it is unfortun_ ate in a measure that there will be no further editions of the Gazette,
a — leaving a space of six weeks during which the various activities of
the college will not be chronicled, both students and staff will probee ably be glad to settle down to f ace the serious aspect of college.
Examinations are now less than six weeks away, plenty of time,
however, to get in some really hard work and pass exams with credse % = table marks, even if the social round has engaged most of the stu
dents’ time up to now.

The Gazette this year has doubtless pleased some, Revadad
beatae perhaps. The Editors have come in for vitriolic abuse at
_ the hands of some students which we hope has been borne with
fortitude. An occasional letter of praise has even found its way
Re the editorial sanctum. Some of the letters of criticism have
their weight and effect through personal criticism of the Edi
tors and staff, but on the whole they contributed much for the
‘formation of the students and to the interest in their publication.
vey few have been suppressed, and the Editors have made an
_ honest attempt to throw the Gazette columns open to any student
_who wished to air his or her views on any question. Very little
censoring has been exercised on the letters prnnied, as the writers
_ well know.

Issues have been discussed with frankness both by the editorial

_ staff and by contributors of letters and articles, and it is well that

; _ it has -been so. The Gazette has been practically unhampered this

mt -and has given publicity without fear or favor. At the outset

. the policy of the Editors was to invite criticism of affairs and pro
, . voke the interest of the students. Some articles, some editorials,

have been frankly contentious, and in fact were deliberately con
5 pees in their subjects and terminology, and the students have

juick to pick up the guage. One writer did penetrate the

Ms Ec catnecose of the Editors. But the net result has been that the

students are showing an interest in the Gazette, and if nothing

more has been accomplished by the Editors, they rest content.

There has been criticism, with even a modicum of praise in some

quarters. Some have welcomed with relief the halt called this

- year to the eternal playing up of campus favorites or “big shots’’
Sit hae columns of the Gazette, so prevalent in past years.

ay . os whether it be criticism or praise, it has shown that the

ents are reading their own , that the Gazette is playing

a: art in their university life. F ar better it were an obnoxious

: than a pees aoeentey which the students will not even

CI

co
, ea
ee,

“a

College
Comment
Questionnaire Findings.

The ‘Alarm Clock’’ the official publication of the Labor Club at McGill
came forth last week featuring the re
| sults of the recently circulated student

questionnaire, to which the Gazette referred. While on the campus the
questionnaire had a troubled career and
it eventually aroused the fervor of
those in authority to such a pitch as to
be banned, but not before 275 students
had responded to it.

The findings of the questionnaire showed that this group was in favor, by a
small majority, of maintaining the C. O.
T. C. on the MeGill campus. About
half felt willing to resist conscription
to the point of going to jail while opinions were not clear on the subject’ of
public ownership of Canada’s main industries. The C, C.F... party~ was
favored, winning about forty per cent
of the votes cast the other two parties
being distributed evenly. The inteutions of the ‘‘Alarm Clock"’ editors
were, no doubt, good, but one questions
the feasibility of soliciting student
opinion of this nature.

HITLERISM

This is the last instalment of a letter
from a German Nazi to a student in
Graduate Studies at the University of
Toronto. Comment is unnecessary, 1!
speaks for itself.

If anyone sincerely wishes to help
Germany he cannot hope for more
than that Hitler will live long enough to
fulfil his mission; enormous tasks are
still awaiting accomplishment against
the open and secret attacks of Jews
and other enemies of Hitler’s programme.

The misunderstanding of present
conditions in Germany is mostly due
to the fact that the world press is far
too much under Jewish influence and
leadership; they scent the threat to
their financial and political power, once
the eyes of the white (sic) people are
opened,

li the leading statesmen of countries
populated by people of white race, and
enjoying the benefits of their civilization and culture, were not just as
short-sighted as they wete before the
outbreak of the war, they would not
allow the tragedy of Geneva in the Assembly of the ‘“‘League of Nations.”
For fifteen years they have pretended
to work for the pacification of the world
but could not come to a decision as to
what are weapons of attack and what
of defence. It reminds one of mediaeval times, when high officials and statesmen occupied themselves considering
the question of whether the Duke of
So-and-So was of higher rank than the
Duke of Such-and-Such and had the
privilege of sitting on the right hand
of the king.

Meanwhile in Russia millions of
people have been starving, famine raging in the country formerly abundant
with grain and agricultural products,
but ruined by a revolution which was
chiefly the work of Jews. And the
Far East is afire. In Asia the yellow
races, especially the Japanese, are rubbing their hands with satisfaction at
the behaviour of the whites, who do
not see the threat to the future of the
white race, of European and American
civilization.

It is in fact, a very dark outlook, unless common sense will make responsible men take the reins into their hands
before it is too late.

Hitler, for his part, asks no el
than to be left in peace in his protection of our country, and to have freedom to prove to the world that the
German Revolution is not to be compared with the Russian. Instead of
tearing down, he wishes to build up
by steady and gradual development
the commercial and spiritual conditions of manhood.

on.

Oona. a

George Bernard Shaw has a way of
saying things that attracts attention.
An article of his in the Magazine Digest for March is captioned with ‘‘Don’t
Go to a University’’ and his opening
sentence isin the typical Shavian style:
“T think all the universities in the world
should be razed and salt thrown on the
sites where they stood.’’ This is particularly interesting to those of us who
are just about to leave college, especially as it represents an attitude
that appears to be growing. The
value of a university education is being called more and more to account,
and it is questioned if the amount of
money invested is worth the dividend
gained. The critics are right there;
an education is not worth so much in
dollars and cents, and the belief that
it is directly antithetical to the purpose of a university. The idea that a
student should gain a quantity of
knowledge and finesse exactly equivalent to the dollars expended is ‘‘good
business,” but it is poor education.
Cynics take great delight in pointing
out men who never saw the inside of a
university until long after they become
famous, if even then. Such men are
Watt, Stephenson, the Wright brothers
Graham Bell, Pasteur, Edison and
Ford, to name only a few, and their
example is held up as an argument
against scholarship.

But we are not holding a brief here
for scholarship, only for the university
as it is with all its faults. It appears

‘| to be one of the requirements of every

student to criticize Dalhousie just as he
has to pass Latin 2 for his degree. He
criticizes the chairs in the gym, caution
deposits, medical exam fee, diploma fee,
lack of a rink, Glee Club shows, and so
Such complaints are; after all,
only ‘“‘small fry’’ when compared to the
advantages which the institutions and
environment of a college, expecially
Dalhousie, affords. A _ college has
something else, not easily definable,
that it imparts to its students before
they leave it: it is an attitude towards
life that cannot be gained anywhere
else, and which, to our mind, is the
purpose of an education. Despite the
ridiculing of universities by Shaw and
other ‘‘debunkers’’ the most of us have
a profound conviction that college gives
more than a superficial veneer. If
others feel that way, they missed something worthwhile in their education;
the rest of us, to put it frankly, feel
damn glad that we had the opportunity
to be here.

U. K. C. Notes

Playing the weekly tournament in
the King’s gym last Thursday, the college badminton team defeated St. Lukes
in four of the six matches. This success has to some degree offset the rather
poor showing of the King's team in its
recent play. After the evening’s games
were played, refreshments, served in
Alexandra Hall, terminated the enjoyable session.

Ill-luck again spoiled the activities
of our basketball team. In the first
game of the Intercollegiate League,
Tech defeated the Kingsmen, in a closely contested match by four points.
In the second game, last Saturday at
the Y, the Kingsmen again were unable
to stop the scoring of the Tech team,
and lost by a considerable margin,

Saturday afternoon the King’s gym
was the scene of forty minutes scuffling, rushing and tackling, with a
basketball as the centre of activity.
The Sophs defeated the combined
Seniors-Grads in an uproarious game
characterized by such’ enthusiastic
fouling that most of the players spent
time in the penalty-box. They called
it buckshee basketball, but to the spectators it looks like a means of expressing that savage instinct,

The Haliburton Club and the Co-ed's
Club have both had well-attended and
thoroughly enjoyable meetings recent
ly.

trouble to read. Far better to be condemned than to be neither

condemned nor praised.

To those of you who have been our critics, to those who have
contributed to the columns of the Gazette in any other way, the

Editors render thanks.
staff in great meastre.

Both have eased the burden of the editorial
High tribute is due to the members of the

news staff, who have worked tirelessly all term to make the Gazette
a success, and to them also the Editors extend their gratitude.

™~

CARICATURES --
With Reverence For None

MISS ANNA MCKEAN

Miss McKeen is officially known as
the Warden of Shirreff Hall, but President Stanley often acts in an advisory
capacity. Together they bring up the
freshettes in the way they should go,
and pray that during the vacation they
will not depart from it.

She has two vices, an occasional
cigarette and a pet dog; and one suppressed desire, a certain member of the
faculty. However, he is as yet unaware of it.

She is inclined to be snobby, which is
a virtue in the dean of a girls’ residence,
and she has an excellent taste in clothes.
Unfortunately she is bad-tempered until after lunch. She is a strict disciplinarian and gates the girls unmercifully, which may be a good thing,

She owns a roadster of ancient vintage and questionable qualities which
she refuses to trade in for sentimental
reasons. Her favorite hobby is the
Dalhousie Choral Society which has
somehow fallen into evil ways.

She holds the most difficult position
on the campus, and should get a great
deal of credit for fulfilling it well. Being campus mother to ninety-odd coeds is no sinecure—but the hand that
rocks the cradle rules the world.

CARLETON STANLEY

Dr. Stanley came from McGill three
years ago where he was vice-principal
to Dalhousie where he is president.
He has never recovered from the demotion.

He has initiated radical changes at
Dalhousie and would like to make still
more. He thinks a modern university
is a ‘collection of books” like Everyman’s Library and has been doing his
best to make it so.

He is against hotel dances, student
drinking, rooms, mixed badminton,
girls’ shorts, registrars, and soon. His
enthusiasm is admirable—though perhaps misplaced. He has not yet told
us what he likes, but he enjoyed folk
dancing in Montreal. His favorite
hobby is walking.

He is tall and distinguished looking,
with iron grey hair and a classic profile. He has a charming manner which
disarms criticism and he could be most
popular.

The President pays no attention to
the Gazetie, especially to its editorials
which is probably a good thing.

He believes the main purpose of a
college is to develop character, but cuts
a senior’s privileges to those of a freshette. A “‘cloistered virtue’’ we suppose the President figures, is better
than the possibility of none at all, since
the co-eds of to-day will be the mothers
cf to-morrow.

LESTER.

Lester is probably the best known
man onthe campus except for Murray
Ryan.. He has been President of the
Moustache Club for years by virtue
of a luxurious growth on his upper lip.
He is inordinately proud of its graceful
floating lines.

He is a family man, but like many
another, he has a secret passion for
Mae West.

He distributes mail to the professors
and we would give a lot to know his
private opinion of them. He could do
these sketches as they should be done.
However, he might value his job too
much to be truthful.

He knows most of the students by
name and is better acquainted with
them than the faculty is. Next year
we should like to see him co-editor of
the Gazette; he might give the students
what they want. No one else has as
yet.

VINCENT CHRISTOPHER MACDONALD.

Great men are born, not made, and
Vincent Christopher MacDonald is no
exception to this or any other rule.
Born at Mulgrave, only the Gut of
Canso parted him from the greatness
which is the birthright of all Cape
Bretoners. He is deeply conscious of
this ‘inherent defect’’, but he attempts
to overcome the natural inferiority
complex by. adopting the manner
and method of a Tory Minister
without Portfolio. His claim to intellectual superiority rests upon the
tpse dixit of one MacEvoy, who has
dubbed him the ‘Master Mind.”
What ought to be a humorous situation
becomes pathetic when this hardheaded practitioner believes in the
soubriquet. In an interview given
to one of the Halifax Newspapers last
year, Vincent Christopher MacDonald
said that he had two hobbies:

“(a) running away from public

speeches, and (b) playing golf.”
As a substitute for the safety valve of
public utterance he lets loose intermittent blasts of private oratory upon his
defenceless students, and, it is said,
upon his colleagues to their infinite
boredom and discomfiture. Despite
his turn of speed, in what direction
your commentator knoweth not, he
often allows himself to be overtaken by
fair executives of women’s clubs, and
blandly distils a faint aroma of legal
learning for the amusement of, that
lawless sex. About his golf, the less
said the better, but we would like to
remind those who have seen him play
that he is no mere Hibernian serf digging peat, but a leisured Haligonian
taking exercise and keeping up the military tradjtion of mistaking expletives
for excuses. In the winter, at any rate,
the Master Mind forsakes manual
labour for scholarly mass production.
Week by week unpleasing pamphlets
issue from his office; he is the sine gua
non of judicial legislation, the Editor of
the Dominion Law Reports. For the
inferior quality and merchantability
of this commodity he is not entirely
to blame; his sole duty is to misrepresent the reasoned opinions of others by
means of inept clichés called ‘‘headnotes."’ Three times a week, for the
benefit of the ignorant, he extols the
virtues of that Utopian character—
the reasonable man. Even those who
fail to appreciate the keenness and
force of his intellect, and they are few,
see that Vincent Christopher MacDonald combines, in his own person,
the shrewd foresight of that repellant
figure, with a warmth of heart and a
sense of humor which are certainly his
own.

Shirreff Hall Notes

The Hall has been a busy place this
last week end. Mrs. Ledingham, Mrs.
Findlay, Mrs. Levine, Mrs. Gillespie |
and Mrs. Grant were visiting their respective daughters. The girls
sorry they don’t have these important
Hockey Play-offs more often.

Making pie-beds seems to be the
favorite indoor sport these tiresome
days. The matter came to a head the
other night when one of our inmates
locked her own door and then locked
herself in her friend’s bedroom. Pass
keys were of no avail and the unfortunate thus ousted was forced to spend the
night on the floor,

The freshettes have been misbehaving again. They seem to be rather
untidy and Charlotte Stewart had to
pay 50c to get her wardrobe out of the
pound, Result, lots of the young
ladies will have a week of untroubled
quiet for studies.

are |

Worsack has the long awaited and
, coveted job of patrolling the alcoves
between 10.30 and 11.30 those cold
nights and seems to enjoy it immensely.
Worsack, by the way is Miss MacKean's dog and he’ll make quite a
watch dog with more practice,

ROUND TABLE CLUB.

— —_ -
With the president in the chair the
Round Table Club met last Thursday
night in the Murray Homestead to
listen to Father Pius speak on Russia.
Although Father Pius, now connected
with the Immigration Department,
is a native of Russia, he said he had
not been there for over a quarter of a
century. However, his description of
the old Russia supplemented with an
exhibition of wood-carvings and paintings, was very interesting, as were his
stories of Russia from recent immigrants.

A business meeting was held afterwards at which Ronald Copp was elected to membership and plans were made
for the final banquet of the year.

a ath
j ie

4

 
     

    

 

 
 
 

  

, thin walls and people who
‘to pull down their blinds—All
ws that’s unfit to print and no
for ee ¢ column, but the show

 

thie first sign of spring recorded Bee
was: Doug Crease and Harold Johnson
© walking down to the hall with one of
hag girls. =

 

i Forrest Bldg. SS

Mack yoy, law representative on the
"Student's Council, stayed up all the
other ‘night arguing. He is ready for
their first meeting. Since taking office
he has worked two jigsaw puzzles.

 

Laurie Hart gets his orchestra in
trim for the Glee Club show. Some one
came up and congratulated him on his
success and said ‘‘you know they sound
- - «just “like one man.” Laurie says
_... “thanks.’’ The answer came ‘Now,
a + Laurie if you only get two more men
Eyes you'll have three in the orchestra.

_ room: dancing please call George
Erg nner and make an appointment.

" Shirref Hall,

One of the girls who recently underwent an operation asked the doctor
if the scar would show and he replied
‘Not if you’re careful lady.”

Lord Nelson.

[ At a recent sorority party one of the
i boys asked the girl of she liked his

 

 

es standing collar. She looked at it for a|
while and replied: “‘It looks like a
Ree whitewashed fence around a lunatic
a asylum.”

Me he

; AND

_ |GENTZEL

_ Photographers to

    
    
 
  

 
  

Dalhousie University

Special Rates to
STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing Service

- See Our Pictorial Work
Baan For Gifts

| 18 Spring Garden Rd.
% oo ; _ é
| Phone B.6992.

; is the ‘i Bob MacFarlane's Philosophy.
ou Ae all the late news,
y of the Joe E. Brown|
th of the Campus.

 
    
     
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
     
   
   
  

z ies coms: to you by keyhole,

   
   
 

|cate, feeling or sight.

   
  
   
   

io eke os eis pees ball-|

    
   
  

   
   
 
     
 

   
  
   

Mair

Is it not possible that a person can
change his beliefs on a certain matter—
particularly such a matter as the purpose of college. I once labored under
the classical delusion that a college is a
place in which one learns to study in
order to become cultured or educated.

| I have lately come to realize that a col| lege is a place to enjoy oneself, indulge

| in social and athletic delights, languish
Jin the arms of fair maidens, support

various societies and cliques, take tea

s| at Shirreff Hall and study as little as
possible.

as

Five students had an argument the

Waphes day as to which was the most deli
A soph said
feeling was the most delicate and cited

the example of Ted Crease’s moustache.

It can be felt but no one can see it.

Now that the exams are coming, I
have made up a few questions which
you might do well by studying the
answers.

(1) Who is Bob Weitz? Note any
striking similarity between him and
Shakespeare.

(2) How much could Samuel Johnson eat at a meal and discuss the effect
on the literature of the period?

(3) Sketch the English you have
not read this term?

(4) Give Chemical formula for:—
carbonate of Shirreff Hall hash; Black
sulphate of cranberries; bucket of water.

(5) What is an atom?
boundaries.

(6) A student from the country
goes home four times and comes back
once. Where is he now?

(7) ‘College students are not allow- |
ed rooms in hotels.’’ Discuss the effect of this on the morals of the period.

(8) What would happen if two
prominent Pine Hillers went to Shirreff
Hall every Sunday night for lunch?
Discuss the effect of this starvation
on the next generation.

(9) What would happen if the
C. O. T. C. found a loaded gun? I
| think per go home.

Give its

¥ =
Don Bauid thinks that some of those
love scenes in the show were a bit of

Art—Too long.

Item in the last ‘‘Gazette:’’ ‘The
last sorority party was held in the Lord
Nelson.”” Thank God!

Where did John Rowley ‘spend the
week end, and why?

And why did Jack Oldfield go stag
to the party last Saturday?

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

BIRKS=

Memorial Tablets, and name
plates for professional men in
brass or bronze, are products of
Birk’s Craftshops.

Designs and prices oe submitted.

 

   

 
   
 

   
  
  
   
   
 

  
  
 

Henry Birks &Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS |
Halifax, N. S.

  
  
 
  
   
 
 

“~ aa
, he me gt
Geer Sire

    
  

    

Perhaps you will wonder why I am
writing to you—I confess that I really
don’t know myself, but my last letter
from your mother—yes, she still writes
to me though the rest of the family disapprove of my actions and my divorces
—tells me that you recently celebrated
your 18th birthday. Congratulations
on becoming a woman, my dear. May
you have a long and merry life!

You have probably heard that I have
married again. Yes, Jack is my third
husband and, I believe, the best that I

have found, though [ am still on the |

best of terms with both Robert and Bill.
But the social cost of divorce is great.
I know that you will soon be contemplating marriage and it is my sincere
wish to help you, out ofmy experience,
in winning the man you want and in
making the proper selection the first
time so that there will be no mistake
made that will give you unhappiness.

A woman who once yields to the natural impulse of a great love is an outcast from society, but if to gain wealth
and social position she grants herself
for life to a man she even hates, a
clergyman’s benediction makes her a
respected matron. You must marry—
it is the law and itis convention. All
the decrees from a court of organized
society may not be just, but to defy its
mandates is simply to invite annhiliation. A woman who pretends to
love a man for the sake of his money is
bad. The one who does so for a little
thoughtless diversion is no better; but |
the one who whose only object is to
gratify her vanity is a great deal worse.
You will have your love affairs—we all
do, but remember that actions speak
louder than words—and watch out for
the echo. The reason a good woman
has so little pity for a bad one is that
she knows just how hard it is to be good
and the privations it often demands.
Still, the prude who won’t let her fiance
kiss her until after they are married
is like the man who won't try his new
bath-tub till Saturday night. She foregoes a lot of joy for the sake of a doubtful principle.

Every gay dog has his—date, and a
man without a few evil intentions is
like lingerie without lace—uninteresting. Some men are poor, lots of them
are stupid, most of them are so ugly
that they would look like a dog or an
ape if they did not keep their faces
shaved, and all of them are conceited.
Almost every man is as blind asa nightowl in the sunlight. When a woman
is madly in love with him he never
knows it, but if she jollies him cleverly,
he iscertain heisa winner. Most prospective mothers-in-law say, ‘Feed the
brute.’ I say, ‘Flatter the ass and you
will get him.’ The cleverest trick a
woman can learn is how to keep a man
from feeling certain he has won her,
but remember that silence gives assent.
If you don’t want to get in a compromising situation—keep talking. It’s
rather difficult for a man to kiss a girl
if she has a lighted cigarette in her lips.
Whether or not you approve of smoking, you will find that a cigarette at the
proper moment is like a stitch in time—
it saves embarrassment.

Do You Drink?

Apart from thetasty meals

we servea good variety of
hot and cold drinks.
THE

Green Lantern

(Dine and Dance at The Green)

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per Ib
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.

Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough
for rmiinimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundry

 

 

eee SS

|

_ DALHOUSIE, GAZETTE

Pane Hill Peccadillos

; My dear Niece—

           

A woman’s admirers may be as thick
as flies around a molasses puncheon,
but she can marry only one of them,
and the demure little girl with a single
chance is quite as apt to draw a prize.

What nonsense is the notion that
each soul has a mater, somewhere in the
world. Given enough chiffon, moon
  

light, the right kind of perfume, a little

dreamy music or the soft lapping of
the sea on a warm summer night, and
some hand-holding and it dcsn’t matter
who the girlis. When a bear goes nosing around a trap it does not matter
what cow the bait came off—he gets
caught unless he is very careful. But
it is for you to be careful in your choice
of bears, for many of them, though delightful dancers and all that goes to
make a perfect social escort, are really
the most boring persons when the
music stops and you want a quiet evenat home. See how a man behaves in
his own home and you will see how he
will behave toward you after the honeymoon is over.

Now, Jack—But I have said enough
for now. Best wishes and a_ world of
happiness.

Yours,

AUNT JEMIMA,

Otto’s latest lament: Alas! The
iris of my eye is the pupil of Dr. Falconer’s!

What an interesting article on Dalhousie Society that Anonymous presented for public appreciation! How
on earth heis able to compare it with,
clothing is beyond our knowledge.
Does he not know the old saying that
if you pluck the gay feathers off a
pheasant it looks no better than a barnyard fowl—and infinitely tougher
(eating)- No, my dear Anonymous,
clothes do not make the man. Perhaps you do not know the courage that
it takes to appear in a drab blue serge
suit, white shirt and muddy-purple
tie among a glittering horde of the socalled ‘upper crust’ from the city (to
New York) who are sardonically at
tired in loud suits, coloured shirts and
gaud-awiul yellow ties.

But it was not this part of the poorly connected articles that incensed us.

is

It was the direct reference to this
column as a species of ‘‘rustic, even
barnyard, wit’’ and, later, its ‘‘crude
humor.”

BULLeve us, we are not COWed by
your illusions. You talk yourself
HORSE about our column being like a
chicken’s cry, ‘“Cheap!” It is EGGs
actly the opposite. HEIFER,
want to argue about it, we’re willing.
We do not believe in GELDING our
jokes with the golden film of sophistication. We believe that if there were
MARE (note the accent, cute—) of this
type, the city gent would still be the
GOAT of the farmer’s jokes, for city
wit is a PlGmy compared with his.
Do not think that we grow COLT with
fear and DUCK with apprehension
when the city slicker visits us. Weare
agreed, inSTUD, that you should
aFILLYate yourself with the geese
who only hiss at the rest of the barnyard.

if you

 

 

Halifax Transfer

pHONE B,7138

 

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

 

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

= —$—$—_—$— es ————— een... rm"wmw\»_jvr—v—v0Oo oo

  
  
    
  
    
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
  
       
     
 
 
    
 
    
    
     

  

         

——

 

‘She pick of the World’s

Tobacco crops assures you

of a mild and matekiess
flavour when you Smoke

these famous cigarettes

Winchester

CIGARETTES
Blended Right!

SAVE THE
POKER HANDS

Sororities Pro and Con

 

 

even where there is a. residence as at

PRO Dalhousie.

The question of Greek letter clubs has CON
been brought into prominence by the
recent motion passed at Queen’s University against fraternities and sororities.

Especially at a University where the
students are not all in residence, as at
Dalhousie, are the real benefit of. sororities felt. The girls in residence and
those living in the city are brought
together in small intimate groups, and
lasting friendships are made.

Of course the old arguments that
sororities form cliques and take away
from the united college spirit can be
brought up, and just as easily discarded. Cliques will
ever a crowd of girls are,
ities cannot be condemned because
they form cliques—if they do. Again
referring to the disrupting of the college spirit, it can be attributed to the
lack of all campus resident students,
and not sororities. Even here at Dalhousie, the girls at Shirreff Hall are
not outstanding as an example of what
a residence does to foster college spirit
—rather to the contrary.

Sororities are more than an excuse
for a bunch of girls to get together and

A sorority is defined aS a secret organization of women. A secret organization is something to children and
those grownups who have not yet passed the childish stage.

Not long ago societies became a part
of Dalhousie and since that time have
become quite an integral part of the
activities of most so-called ‘‘women’’
students.

It is a sophism to say that societies
have benefited the female section of our
University. They, instead of benefiting, tend to develop the not to dormant
faculty of gossip and provide ample
opportunity for this pernicious pastime.
Many a girl or a boy loses his or her
reputation at a Sorority meeting, perhaps to regain it at a later meeting
but oftimes never.

The spirit of sororities is supposed to
promote better feeling. It might if
every girl could belong to one—as it is
the feeling between the different groups
iS intense and some even go so far as to
consider a girl, not in her sorority, as
hardly worth speaking to.

Conditions are deplorable and sororities are like an opiate which is ad
be formed, when
and so soror
LLL nl?

a SS BRS n 8 ro Ban ties poe ministered to conceal from each indiparties enable the girls <9 OSes ro vidual joining them her trueself. She
éeynathewereige the courtesies extended | i. pushed to dea.th, asjed to join, made
to them by the mighty males. much: off. _Atter-she’ joing: the catia

: vanized group of girls can do : ; ; :
An organized group of girls can do |, see anything of other girls outside

"| the group and as her own friends and
They can help each other with their | se pitied tn tnat- Ber 6a Nn
studies, and exchange views and N- | inspired creature the feeling of superform each other on subjects 0 which iority continues and develops beyond
are interested. Small charitable all proportions.

the universities can be} There is a certain impotency in trying to enumerate the faults and drawbacks of these groups. Their high ideals
lead them nowhere. They don’t prevent the girls in any group from fighting among themselves, and are all too
slack in trying to promote better feeling on the campus.

These highly impressive Greek letters societies even fall so low as to follow the example of the little thinking
public which votes purely on party
lines.

And so far into the night!

much good for themselves and others.

‘sisters”’

they
works outside
and are carried on by these groups.

Sororities can unearth executive
ability, since some who are too shy to
come to the fore will do so among their
particular friends.

While it may be argued that sororities are rivals for positions on the
campus, at least it causes a turn out to
meetings that otherwise would not be—
consequence, considering few that turn
out now, there would be no meeting.

So it-is clearly seen that sororities
have a place on a University Campus

Oa

We can’t tailor a suit, but one
of our trims will fit you for

MeNHIGH CLASS OE |
BERT BOWLBY

HAIRCUTS
Over Buckleys Barrington St.

 

We have really enjoyed providing happy hours for you.

NAUGLARS MUSIC MASTERS
CALL JERRY L-9352

sae ze “Thanks for the buggy ride
|
:

ell

 

HOME ME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount

Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for com
plete Suit or Overcoat.

  

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST

Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

  

BADMINTON SUPPLIES

We have everything needful, but

G. A. McDonald

Tobacconist

Blue Goose, Dunlop Tournament
R. S. L. No 1 Tournes, Cambell’s
Consistant and others.

If it’s sporting goods, we can

   

Complete Range of Pipes

25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road}

BARRINGTON at GEORGE
Telephone B-6226

Page Three

  

tn oo
Bee ,
e
ie

     
 
   
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
    
  
   

tee ar

=

es

a annual meeting at the Green Lantern.
After having supper in the main dining
oom the meeting adjourned
| e Be? ae os and there followed a business
Spregrst with musical interludes.
The following officers for next term
a were elected by the gathering of re, _ presentative students and interested

=e,
te
ee ‘room

- individuals.

~ Secretary—Donald Robb.
Treasurer—Jean Lindsay.

Beveridge,
MacLeod.

 

 

ming” ‘Year

 

: et a On Thursday last the Senaent Chris= tian Movement of Dalhousie held its

President—Bruce Radon,
aes Vice President—tiris Clark.

_ Executive—May Burgess, Ella Hunt
_ Maria Davison, Isabel Freestone, Helen
Reynolds, Glendon McCormick, Jim
Jan MacKeigan,

Reports of the various study groups
~ conducted by the S. C. M. were given
and the persons presenting these reports were all of the opinion that the
S. C. M. was to be congratulated on

  

 

 

 

The Dalhousie Gavétte?

Beat Sir:

Why was the descriptive phrase
“New Yorker’’ added in parenthesis
after the name of the student who contributed to the short poem (if such it
might be called) which appeared in the
Dalhousie Gazette of March 8th?
Was the lyrical quality of the contribution such as would belittle the ability
of the average Nova Scotian? Or was
the piece a hit too risque to be printed
lest it shock staid Nova Scotian parents into thinking it was one of their
own who was so immoral, unless ‘‘ New
Yorker’’ were added?

Whatever the reason was, this little
touch brings out, in some degree, the
two classes of Dalhousie Society mentioned by your old friend “Anonymous”
in the same issue. If the selection was
in any way undesirable, it should not
have been printed. But I guess the
editors decided to give the ‘country
boys” a laugh, and then avoid any responsibility by attributing the piece
not to its author particularly, but tothe
“city lads’’ in general.

i ————

     

cil were definitely and morally obliged
to continue with the publication. Evidently obligations mean even less to
the Council than the students’ wishes.

(Signed Engineering Graduates.

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:

matter than was to come before the
Council, we exercised the prerogative
right of attending a meeting of the said
Student Council.

At that meeting the supreme arbitrator of student affairs re-affirmed
its policy of providing only necessities this year, on account of the financial stringencv. A discussion arose
about the Year Book, and after several
hours of further debate they decided
to allow about $1,000 on the Year
Book and omit the Munro Day festivities.

At this point the Badminton Club

 

ae. ee
4 I a re bag ¥ * ogee eo ae ar aS 7 by hee 3 7 t
PR ig tue” ee i CaM HSL e rds st eee hewn ag eS
ane aa VP Fo. ey J ‘t eae ‘Ty. eo eae < ee aot Aa ie »
4 te a ‘ fey OF ey te ay br ee 1 Vy PY i
sk ae rs ae Se a hae, i is ie Lie ay tal’ " . eee } z : é a 1 :
ee re i nal a A ri % 4 ay 1 psy, ; ha Fe —_ ti a >
a) 5 ~ “ tii Fa % ie Po eel st Vi “ “it vn
. + oe & ate reece kG eta ih 3 oe * ‘
. ™ thy ae ge y = ay Slee 04 wg » ’ ¥, > *
- Wee ie Aye er \
3 a te r ae ie ih, v ty
; ig ¥ et ee St é (Orla oe
Oe Rete Bee aye cs oS eM
= Bee ee - oh
ss ary
The Editors, — : these circumstances the Student coun
CAMPUS GRINNERS

Not since the time when we advocated the removal of the campus lovers,
have dared to suggest - radical
changes affecting any of our wellknown figures, However, in this final
issue, we would like to suggest, as an
equally valuable move, the doing away

The lovers,
themselves;

Wwe

grinner, who goes out of his way, walking from building to building
haunting the gym, for no other opportunity than to grin at every passer-by.
He insists that everyone notice him,
and, not content with a mere nod, feels
hurt if he does not get a reciprocal exhibition of bicuspids and molars. Perhaps we shall grow up to be dys peptic
growlers and perhaps we are jealous
of his ability to grin his way to every
sorority party, to the Council, the
Gazette staff, the D. A. A. C. and most
of the other executive positions, but

and

 

= —E Te:

ria ‘ ~ f
a ‘sa a i a Ci
eRe gee oi ‘ ee
. + "hee ; ey
ae ~Z M ] . A ~
i. o ht Ew =.) ae ae '
ys \ a i a

’ ~
EE EE

Fou Sarisles Club
D’s To Be
Awarded

March 11th, 1934.

The Council of the Students met in
the Law Classroom at 3 p. m. immediately following the meeting of the
Council-Elect. The President was in
the Chair and the minutes were accepted as read.

Following a resolution passed by the
Council at a previous meeting, two
members of the Intermediate football
team appeared before the meeting to
account for their action in carrying
away from Gauyvin & Gentzell’s, two
jerseys belonging to the D. A. A. C.
and lent to them for the purpose of
having their pictures taken.

After a lengthy enquiry it appeared | Hockey

ee eee ee ae rye

ed
. ote a * ie *

4 e
fies a
hh

og = oe A . ,i4

ey

that there was reasonable doubt of any

intent to misappropriate the property | etbe all Team.

and a motion was passed that the two

should not be penalized but that the,
Council should make it a point of pub
licizing the matter and stressing the| Secretary 348 Robie Street,

fact that a definite penalty would
be imposed on all future offenders.

‘March 16th ait

a hmaihbadhoneantinena aati

 

NOTICE

Applications will be received by the
Management Committee of the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club up until
March 17th, 12 o'clock, noon for the
following positions:

During the 1934-35 session.

1. Manager of the Senior Rugby
Team.

2. Manager of the Senior Hockey
Team.

3. Manager of the Senior Basketball Team.

4. Manager of the Track Team.

5. Manager of the Boxing Team.
6. Manager of the Tennis Team.
7. Manager of the Soccer Team.
8. Manager of the Wrestling Team.

9. Assistant Manager of the Rugby
Team.

10. Assistant
Team.
11. Assistant Manager of the Bask
Manager of the

12. Manager of the Swimming
Team.
Applications to be addressed to the

Halifax.
G. E. TANTON,
Secty., D: Ay A. C.

organizing these groups and that it was
a privilege, not a tortureas many seem
to think, to attend a group. The re-|rt on the social service work of the
. C. M. showed that there had been

Smart stuff, by heck.

 
  
  

presented a budget whicy had the
approval of the rejuvenated D. A.
A. C. for holding a series of tournaments with Mount Allison.

A scale of awards for Glee Club’s
D’s was presented by Mr, Murphy and |
a grant made for the awarding of four| A neat testimonial to Dalhousie proD’s this year. A permanent scale of | gressiveness is the Notice of a Gazette

the sight of his never changing grin
has become tiresome to us and only
brings to mind that line of Milton's,

where Death

Oe
Anonymous, the second.

“Grinned horribly a

  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 

little trouble in getting volunteers to
go to the North End Mission on Thursday and Friday afternoons.
the volunteers have had no other connection with the S. C. M. yet here is a
piece of work which they enjoy, which
_ is instructive to them and which, of

Editors’ note—If the writer of the
above cares to see the ‘‘poem”’ in question in the New Yorker he may do so
at any time, for as strange as it seems,
it was printed in that magazine, March
issue. Morris Ryskind, to whom the
poem was credited, is a contributor to
the New Yorker. A bad guess, by

Due to rigid economy the Badminton Manager had saved some $200
from the original grant. Therefore
this proposed budget of $83 to defray
expenses for such tournaments would
not have required an additional grant
to the badminton club, but after the

ghastly smile.”’

Fortunately, the campus grinners
seldom come near the library. When,
however, they do enter its more or less
sacred precincts, it seems that most of
them are also campus back-slappers.
Nothing gives them more pleasure than
parading up and down the center aisle,

award was not approved,

further investigation by a committee] dated 1930.

consisting of Miss Jost, Mr. Fisher and
Mr. Teasdale.

The Swimming Team was referred
to the D. A. A. C. for permission to
make a trip to Acadia at no cost to the

Council.

pending | meeting on the Arts bulletin board,

Meetings may come and
meetings may go, but the notices stay
up forever.

WE HAVE MONEY
rOR STUDENTS

 

course, the poor children of that dis- eee rtacuee: Sucks Heet/tittie.
trict enjoy immensely. i,

The report of the President, Walter
-Mutch, was most interesting and showed that the S. C. M. is a very valuable
institution in the college. Three conferences were outstanding in the year’s
work and the forums held by the S. C.
M. were apparently appreciated as all
types of students attended. Forums
on the following topics were held dur
discussion about the Year Book, it
would probably have been difficult to
pass a vote of 3 cents for postage to let
Mount Allison know that the series
was off. .

 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 

After considerable discussion, the
Badminton team was refused a grant
of $86-25 for a trip to Mount Allison.

Mr. George Thompson was appointed Junior N: F. C. U. S. Representative to succeed Mr. Jost.

Professor Macneilland Mr. Wigmore
were elected to act as a Selection Committee for the Exchange of Undergraduate scheme carried out by the N. F.

GUL SE.

playing at peek-a-boo
until they have found out who are
there. And if they see a head which
does not rise at the sound of their step,
they are wont to suddenly
with what is we suppose
punch in the ribs or the nape of the
neck.

The campus grinners are a nuisance;
vet we do not know where to send their
leers. Perhaps they would be better

inquisitively

their second-hand book
accounts. Make certain
that thereis nota fortune
awaiting you. Remember that we are not responsible forany of your
books left on hand after
May, 1934. Any books
not taken out before this
date will be disposed of as

Editor Dalhousie Gazette;

arouse it

The fact that the student council a friendly

is not interested in the wishes and welfare of the student body has again been
confirmed by the abolition of the Year
Book. Previously their actions have
largely been negative in nature. A

A week later there came the news that
the Year Book had been abolished and
we, expecting that the reason for the
refusal was now gone,again attended
the deliberations of the Council of

who have not yet settled

Ps ‘ing the year. The Present Interna
  
  
 

_ tional Crisis, Art and Religion, Peace by
| Force?; Students—A False Hope? and

large section of the students would like
more skating sessions, yet this year the
council has only provided one session,

Students, and the badminton budget
was again presented for consideration.
At the same time a budget was present
appreciated at Acadia, where everyone
slaps his neighbour’s back and reminds

After a brief check-up on the plans|

for Munro Day, the meeting adjourn
the management may see
fit. Why not collect your
money and your books

ed at 5.45 p. m.
Respectfully

him of what a fine place they have—
at any rate, we should be pleased to
see them far away from here.

ah a ee M.

THE PROMISE.

+ — Can Students Take It? Interest in
_ the work of the S, C. M. increased duroy Paine year and one ‘CM judge from

NOW?
Dalhousie University
Store

ed for a swimming meet. Both were

voted down.

   
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
  
   

and that was thrown in with a hockey
game, so that those who wanted to
skate could not start until 9.30. Every
one agrees that interfaculty sport
should be more vigorously promited
yet, year by year it grows more inactive, not through lack of players but
because not sufficient money is allotted to supply the necessary material
and practice periods. This year, in the
interfaculty hockey league the teams
had either to pay for their own practices or go on the ice without any practice. Aftera game was played a team
had to usually wait about three weeks
before the next game. It is not very
remarkable under these circumstances

with our campus grinners
: od 6 2 : “ast, only bothered ‘ :
lwo weeks ago being interested ina = lea ‘ an ee
. that is; one did not have to look at'
them. But not so with the campus
submitted,
M. RANKIN,
Secretary-Treasurer.

Now, we do not wish to criticize
sensible economy in expenditures at a
time when money is scarce, but we
feel justified in saying that the result is
not at all equitable having regard to
the number of students engaged in the
sport, the length of playing season, etc.
Football received $1,000, badminton a
paltry $150 and it is suggested that
there is too great a discrepancy in
amounts so granted considering the
relative importance of the two sports
in student life.

 

 

t ist. ea more thinking stadenes
ere advantage of the opportuniee ties for seeking truth which are preA ; =
Nye, sented through conferences, study
_-—-—s«groups, and forums.

Pine Hill

Peccadillos

 

I shall remember you,

And hands that clung

While shadowed dancers swung;
I shall remember you,

And always wait

The long years through,

And watch the shadows cast

By other dancers in the dark

Till you shall come at last,

To clatm your dance with me
The waltz of our remembering—

 

Shane’s Spring Showing of

 

ee —

Suits and Topcoats

 

 

that even fairly good hockey cannot be ae fault lies eee ee council The unforgotten ecstasy. New Suits and Topcoatsdeveloped. WHO appear to UNNE that ‘their sole EILEEN CAMERON HENRY
RHAPSODY IN BLUE (PERSIAN). But the abolition of the Year Book function is to grant money according B. A. '29.

to the individual interests of the mem- We are now showing a complete range of Spring

bers. Badminton and other minor
sports have no one on the Council particularly interested in them and hence
receive little if any consideration from
the Council.

was a glaring and flagnant dismissal
of the wishes of the students, expressed
at a forum held before Christmas;
At this forum the majority of the students voted to retain Pharos. Again
we believe that with proper canvassing
about 75% of the students would have
been willing to subscribe to Pharos. | it is hoped that the new Council
At least seventy-five percent of the En- will make an earnest endeavour in
gineering students canvassed were will- | making its expenditure to see that the
ing to sign up. interest of those engaged in the so
Hisewce 4 Pliaroe had to Be aholish- called minor sports are looked after.
ed, if the students had really wished | We feel that a badminton series
this course of action, then it should | ' with Mount Allison would furnish not
‘have been done at least two months ' only an impetus to the greater use of
‘ago. Now practically all the gradu-. ‘our splendid gymnasium, but also,
ates have gone to the trouble and ex- | give to Dalhousie University some very
pense of being photographed; critiques | ¢es!t@ble publicity.
have been written and a large section
of the students canvassed. All this
was done under the impression that a |
year book would be published. Under |

Sir Thomas walketh ‘neath the moon
And crooneth to his mate:

The music floating to my room

_ Doth make me ramp and rate,
He cometh as mine eyelids close

- To keep his moonlight tryst,

And waketh me from sweet repose

- To pray that he’ll desist.

He singeth of eternal love

Beneath the starlit sky:

I glare at him from up above—

O would that he might die!

I grit my teeth, I tear my hair,

I wipe my sweating brow,

Sra fon sobbing sounds come through the
. gif,

_ His plaintive cries of, ‘‘Now!”’

clothing—

We Solicit

Suits in tweeds and worsteds, all the new colors

and styles priced at $19.50 to $30.00
Topcoats in Raglan, Polo and the new Balmaccan

styles at $15.00 to $25.00

The patronage of
Dalhousie Students.
Our stock consists

of all Canadian popular Makes at popular

prices.

Hats by Brock $5.0Qand other new hats priced

SHANE'S |i. $1.65 - $2.95 - $3.50 - $4.00

SHOE STORE

418 BARRINGTON ST

Round the ash-can doth he hover,
_ A minor note to sound,
“Dearest, if you can’t get over,
© won’t you come around?”

nt And then he sitteth on the fence,
P E His love-tale to relate;
_ . I throw a boot and drive him hence
And curse him and his date.
 *Tis true Sir Thomas grieves me sore
sh ft re When he doth prowl about.
But would that I, like he, had more
; ba by Of those long evenings out!

j a

> a,

Yours respectfully,

RACQUET & BIRD.

 

 

 

 

Everyman’s Library

Is located just to the right as you come in our store.

   

   

Shane’s Mens Wear

30 Spring SNOP Garden Road

Here will be found a

   

- 4h 2

collection of the world’s finest books, priced within the reach of all purses. Every
     

’ > . .
Our bow “pressite-walestaan, CA: man’s library offers an opportunity to professor and student to purchase a summer’s

_ Howse, representative of the Reming. Typewriter Co., says there are a
's oe of Knox eohuected with the machi ines which may require a lot of at= in the future. However, he
| 5 to leave the Knox in the busi
   

reading at the lowest possible cost.

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
STORE

   

 

 

DISCOUNT OF 10%, TO DALHOUSIE STUDENTS

      

ak .
= 1s
a te at ; i f ny. . '

Cl a Date Ne call ag
ae =, hee ea — : : 4 :

a ic ij a , =

— ; , i 1 ‘ }
aan eee e "es ; yt a 5 \ i *. r t ‘ / 7

 

——" pe Te sb - Nn at a Rly = eo Ro Rae a a Bee,
   

 
 

Ss

_ Two great sweeping arcs of sand form
{a perfect golden new moon of shoreline... Two reefs, now only visible at
low tide, show where long points once
defied the relentless sea and_ slowly
disappeared through years of ceaseless
battering. One long wall of almost
solid rock still remains to resist the
buffetings of the fierce storms that
sweep unbroken across the 13. miles of
Atlantic that separate the shore from
Prince Edward Island and to keep the
twin inlets comparitively calm,

In the wild spring storms which make
the Strait one of the dirtiest stretches
of water in the world, men toil and
fight, and sometimes die in’ their struggle to wrest a _living from the pitiless
sea. }
But this is nt the life that the summer visitor sees when he spends his vacation cottaging at Toney River. &

Now the boats have been hauled
up on the shore, the lobster traps stored
away, the canning factory closed, and
the fishermen become farmers, willing
to supply every need if possible.

Now the Atlantic is quiet, save for
an occasional outburst of wrath to
remind the people of its dormant pow
er. The wind which moves the cottages off their foudations in the winter
dies through the day and rises at sunset to breathe in slow intermittent}
gusts through the open window as soft
and hushed as a sob in the night,

Perfect. bathing and sporting facilities. make this section of Pictou
County ideal for vacation days. The
thrill. of surf-boarding behind a speeding motor-boat: the mad excitement of
fighting a deep-sea fish and the feeling
of pride when it is finally gaffed and
hauled into the boat. The bitter kiss
of cool sea water that soothes away the
cares of a busy day. For real adventure we may make the 17 mile trip
across the Strait to Belle River, P. E. I.
in an open motor-boat—an experience
that is.comparable with riding a half
broken horse—as rough and as dangerous.

But it is not the days that hold the
real charm and interest for the visitor.
True, the sports, the explorations, the
little incidents that happen which
make us ask, ‘“‘What will to-morrow
bring?’ all contribute to the pleasure
of vacation hours.

But it is after we have watched the
sunset bleeding or blushing, fading
cooly or dying slowly away to makea
golden path across the sea while all
the skies glow with opalescent colours,
that we find the mystery and magical
charm of the summer evenings steal
upon our thoughts and fill our minds
with memories of tales that we have
heard told about these shores.

Soon the great full moon rises out
of the calm, unruffled sea, looking for
all the like a golden cameo
brooch on the starry gown of Night.
The great roaring beach fire paints fantastic pictures on the sand, and, as we
sit watching the blue bitter smoke and
scarlet flame blow down the wind while
myriad sparks ascend to blaze and glow
and die, we dream and listen to strange
tales that are told by the people who
have come to visit us from the farms.
Tales of the sea, of humor, of mystery
and of death, well told by the old men
as they sit, smoking and reminiscing
while, as they talk, we gaze into the
glowing fire and see the people of the
stories live, and laugh, and sometimes
die.

There are many tales told of George
MacConnell, the eighty year old farmer
who is still as active as a man of fifty.

He is one of the strongest Liberals
in an almost completely Liberal com
CASINO

        
    

Ee: In thie first of four lecture series on
Italian Government, Don Mario Col:
onna, speaking in the Dal © gymnasium
Ms ~ Tast Friday night under the auspices of
the National Council of Education,
explained to a large audience somePitiog ‘of the present. Italian political
is system.
Taking as his subject ‘‘The Economic Development of the Modern Co=, . operative State,” the speaker first assured his listeners that he was no
_ propagandist, that he only spoke for
- himself, and that he was only doing
his share to bring light to a darkened
orld. He then went on to tell, in con_ siderable detail, of the pre-fascist history of Italy. ;
2 The Italian system, he said, is design; rae to best unite the various economic
factors of production. The government acts as a middleman between
mea labor, capital and consumers. Wherero . rts ever a group of employees, numbering
a> Bre _ one-tenth of their class, form a union,
they legally speak for the whole group
and may sign contracts which are enforcible and binding in the ordinary
courts of the land. The employers
are joined in similar unions, and are
similarly bound by their contracts.
The result of this system has been to
_ give the unions power, but to have
_ tempered it with responsibility, and,
as a result, strikes have been very rare.
Parliament was nominated by the
unions, the candidates beginning at
the local unions of labour and employer
and then on through all the various
general and national unions, until 600
men had been finally chosen. Upon
_ their fitness, as a whole, the public
votes and the result is an elected para equally representative of labor and capital.
Dr. Dougald MacGillivray acted as
iz, chairman in the absence of Dr. Munro.
oe Pres. Stanley and the Rev. Dr. Curren
spoke briefly afterwards, voicing the
thanks of the audience.

    
  
 

    

 
       
      
   

  
 

 
     

   
   

     
 

    
     
       
   

         
 
 
     

a
.

  
 

         
    

 
   
     
       
 
      
 
 

    
   

  

mi

   

 
   
   
      
  
 
 

 
     

  
   
     
 
   
   
   

    
    

 
 
 
   
 
 

        
     
    

  
   

 
     
   

  
 
   
     
     
   

  
   
    
     
   

    
       
     
   

    
 
 

  
      
   

    
   
 
 
       
   
 

The Dawson Geological Club

  
        

presents

    
 
 
     
   
    

Geological Moving Pictures, explained
by Prof. G. V. Douglas, Chem. Theatre, Mar. 19, at 8.00. Admission ‘free.

 
 

         
 
 
   
 
    
   

  

Miss Julia Riser, the national inspector of Alpha Gamma Delta Fraternity will be the guest of Alpha Eta
Chapter next week.

        
   

  

        
      
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  

world

Co-Eds

should attend
our

Spring
‘Millinery
Opening

 

 

 

  
  
 
  
   

 

 

To-day and
Saturday to Tuesday
To-morrow March 17 - 19 - 20
Try on the new
ispring bo bonnets GEORGE

(4 you’ll not be

| ee Stee

BANCROFT
urged to buy | in
( “Blood Money”

Wednesday to Friday}
March 21 ~ 22 - 23}

LEE TRACY

‘Advice to he Lovelorn’

 

NORTHUMBERLAND NIGHTS

(By W. Allister Reid).

   
    
  
   
    
   
   
  
    
  
 
   
 
  
    

 
  
  
 
  
  

munity. Last fall, on being asked what
the results of the coming election were
likely to be, he appeared to think seriously for a long moment, then removed
his pipe from his mouth long enough
to drawl in his characteristic manner —

“Well, it looks pretty bad for us this

year. Ten years ago there was only
one Conservative in the district—
an’ now there's three. Yup! Pretty

doubtful if we have a chance.”

On being asked what the weather
for the next day will be, he looks at the
sky, feels the wind, squints a few times
at the sun and replies definitely, “Tell
you to-morrow.”

One story about him took place in
1927, the year of short skirts and low
neck-lines. He was invited to supper
at the home of a neighbour who was
the not-too-proud father of four daughters. Two of them sat across the table
from the old gentleman, whose eyesight was much better than than it is
to-day. He is by no means a Puritan
in ideals, but he expressed himself
forcibly to his family——and to us—on
his return:

““Well,”” he said, “I went there and
saw these critters runnin’ around the
place as if they were just dressin.’

But, Lord, they sat down to supper
like that. Clothes? Lord knows
there was nothin’ above the table,

and I hated like Hell to look under it!”’

There is a tale of mystery and death,

One evening, last May, a party of
fishermen were on the factory wharf
after the day’s catch had been landed
and the fresh traps placed.

Night had just fallen and they were
preparing to leave, when one of them,
an old man of seventy-five, suddenly
stared out to sea and whispered,

“Look! Lights! Thirty ‘em-—
fifteen, then a space, then fifteen more.
That means-~death!

“Who willit be?” the others whispered, and went home, wondering.

Exactly one week later, at dusk, a
motor-boat heavily laden with traps
set out to place them for the night
catch. There were two occupants, the
owner of the boat, who was operating
it, and a boy of 19 sitting in the stern.

There are thirty traps in each series,
connected to each other by ten feet of
rope. The traps are placed by one
man lowering them over the stern
while the other man keeps the course
of the boat straight and prevents their
tangling.

The. boy was lowering the traps.
Suddenly the man heard a scream and
whirled to see the boy go over the side.
Thinking that he had just fallen off,
the man hurriedly threw the remaining |
traps overboard to lighten the boat
and make it easier to the
choppy sea.

Bringing the boat around, he returned to the spot where the boy had disappeared, but no trace of him could be
seen. There was only answer—

of

7?

handle in

one

he had met with the same accident
that had befallen many others.
Fearfully yet quickly, the man

drew up the traps and found, tangled
in the long rope in the centre of the
thirty traps, the drowned body of the
boy.
Many
tween the law and the liquor smugglers
and illegal dealers—usually to the detriment of the police. I shall not disclose any of those secrets—we should
never be made to laugh at the law.
Now the tales are ended and one by
one the older people leave the dying
bonfire and go to the cottages. The
younger folk gather round the fire and
sing as the glowing embers glow and
flame and die, only again.

are the tales of conflict be
to glow

 

GARRICK

 

Eri, SAT.
“‘Meet the Baron”
with

JACK PEARL
JIMMIE DURANTE
MON.

Tues.

 

“Dancing Lady”

Starring
JOAN CRAWFORD
CLARKE GABLE

 
  

 

ae i Ses m oe : fi
a oF Lime ie kt - a Cu ants
7 7 = 7h ’ ‘af I rnd : alt
pa i + >. a 2 , aw mf 5) : x 5 a * = 4 fee fi? . oe 2

Se eee se \ re feo Ae ; ey 7
is ue ‘ < a 7 i ' a" =

7 a Pap

. 3 ; 7 r
’ i ‘
- aol
- 7
Page Five

 

 

 

The Hour Of Decision ”’

The Innocent
Bystander

   
 
   
  
  
  

(Vol, 435.)

With this growth in democracy came
the desire for cooperation and world
peace. A weak-kneed pacifistie spirit
is the clearest sign of this. It is the
loss of the Will to Power and the Will
to War. The state is the individual
writ large, and just as one takes away
an individual’s motive power through
removing his ambition, so is the state
also left inert and wallowing in a slough
of despond. A study of history and
politics reveals that might is right.
“The natural relation between people
is war’ (Vol 2, pg. 507). Long ago
Heraclitus chided Homer for desiring
all strife to cease; ‘‘war”’
the father of all things;’’
survival of the fittest.

Probably the greatest sign of decay
is our lack of free thought, on which,
paradoxically enough, we pride ourselves. It is but another illusion of
the people. The press does not disse min- we in all seriousness list the following
ate free thought, it generates it. If abolitions:--the decadent D. A: A Cc.
the public see the same thing written | ine parasitic feacaenitien re his i
time and again, it will believe it; it will dipfoma fees; and oriidiiental Fleas
succeed, he an advertisement, through | man Representative the Graft, dardat
repetition. And the press is in the; us Health Centre; the ‘‘shades’’ of
hands of the financial power; what it. pat MacKenzie, Kelley Morton, Art
wills, the people believe. When, after Pattillo and (dine Cosper’ i lad
successive bombardments, the public] fo, Shirreff Hall and the Glee Club |
accept the belief they naively convince.| We also recommend the follcwikies
“What is the truth?" said Spengler-| 4 campaign for funds for a residence;
or the multitude, that which it con-jan independent examination review
tinually reads and hears—Truth is to, board; free dances for college students;
day a product of the press: what the], public bulletin board; a muffler foe
press wills is true—Three weeks of | «peg” Payne; esperanto for Dal stupress work, and the truth is, acknow- | gents: a pension for eterna! collegians:
ledged by everybody—The more uni-|4n endowed convocation chair fox
versal a franchise is, Charlie Lorway; a course in elementary
English for Oraet Labora and Kelley
Morton; and a bigger lily pad in a
smaller puddle for Messrs.
: Weitz, Donahoe, and Fisher.

The publication of Spengler’s new] blows"
book, ‘‘The Hour of Decision” which is
causing so much comment in literary
circles, brings to mind his mighty ‘De
cline of the West” published in 1918
The fierce assurance of this German.
writer then caused resentment; in his
present volume he is still more dogmatic
for he claims to be not only an interpreter, but also a preacher and a prophet. Such a book, however, ‘The
The Hour of Decision,” appearing just
at present in storm-tossed Germany
may have far-reaching implications,
At any rate it recalls some of his earlier
prophecies that have gone far on their
way towards realization.
The “Decline of the West’’
dolorous requiem of the ‘twilight of
civilization.” In it Spengler saw the
end of religion, the growth of atheism,
the decay of culture, and a resort to
supernaturalism. Like Nietzche  before him, he believed the solution lay
in war. Civilization with it
luxury, and resulting
softness; a nation grows up hardy and
sold through struggle,

2, PR.

 

 

Women, having maintained streamlined figures for years, now that Walter
Chrysler has designed a car for them
have reverted to the horseless buggy
build of the Gay Nineties. Which
makes us wonder, did the Nineties
build the figures, or did the figures
make the Nineties gay?

as.”

We are very pleased to note that the
Glee Club is awarding ‘‘D’s’’ to all
who have done well this year or have
contributed anything towards its improvement—We understand
being awarded.

he said,

chanted a life is but the

four are

Asa platform for next year’s Gazette,

brings
easy living, a
wins its wars,
bs carried on for a time by its own moimentum, and then slowly languishes
into decay, when a new people conquers
itand repeats the process. It isagainst
this that Spengler voices his warning.
Atheism, the product of big cities, wins
over the whole population and is the
of the eid. Once

that life has no meaning beyond itself,

for
beginning men see
the vital life that gave them courage is
children are produced only
toys, birth control and sterilization become the

gone; as
the /ess becomes
the top. the power of the electorate.” (2, pg.

Probably the greatest weakness, said | 405, 447, etc.) What a caricature of
Spengler, lies in the illusion of de-|the freedom of thought! We are not
mocracy and the desire for world peace. | ruled by ourselves, we cannot even think
Within the last two hundred years men | for ourselves. by
gave their blood for the right to vote,

vogue, and the*racé dies at
Gray,

It is done
bakers.

butchers ,

and bankers and

This issue marks the end of the In
and fought for the extensi Spengler’s new book, ‘‘The Tes ot

g TRO Os the PeReiye 3 EM book, The Hour of nocent Bystander. Wesincerely thank
franchise.’ At present it is universal, Decision,’ is reviewed in the “New those who liked it for their apprecia

{ i ine < ae
= 1e as “ CO;z oS : fF r se?? Ws Tv e

27 mob : eh As to be coax d by liquor York Times” for Feb. 11. The re-. tion of the difficulties entailedinwak
an ee Ina short 5 lo that in it he calls for the ing it—it’s far from easy. Those who
time only the women will vote, and for | tule of AeSars. Hisremar ks are not $0] gidn’t. we’ve dealt with above.
them too it will soon lose its novelty.| eloquent as indicting, and he draws
To-day, just as Spengler predicted, the | many examples from Rome to illus
 

TAKE A TWO HOUR
HOLIDAY FROM THE
WORRY OF EXAMS

of a dictator. The U. S., whose = of world politics and econIndependence, rejoices in its new ruler}; budding economists: ‘‘the everlasting
who bears the responsibility and points| youths, immature, destitute of the
out the way to them. Only provided | slightest experience, or even real desire
:
:
|

they can get legitimate alcohol, they

GEORGE RAFT

“BOLERO”

crowd is acclaiming with relief the rise|strate it. Again he points out the
proudest boast was its Declaration of | omics, and speaks slightingly of our
for experience, but writing and talking

are uninterested in government. | away about politics, fired by uniforms |

France is again. echoing with cries of | and badges, and clinging fantastically with

“Vive le Roi,” and England, cuided|to some theory or other.’’ And even CAROL LOMBARD
from behind the scenes by its few re- | our social life consists of “flirtation and a

maining aristocrats, is becoming weary.| church going, shoes and _ lipsticks, SALLY RAND
“With the formed state, high history | dances and novels a la mode, thought, ae a ;

food, and recreation.’’ Depite our.
resentment at such criticism, we must |
What Spengler ,
indicates is not really news, we are more>
- less unconsciously aware of it, uF
= drawing it so forcibly to our at-|
tention.. he presents to us not only an
indictment, but.a challenge.

MUSIC FOR

lays itself down, weary, to sleep. Man
becomes a plant again, adhering to the
soil, dumb The

‘eternal’

FAN DANCER

CAPITOL

SAT-MON-TUES.

and enduring. time- | recognjze its validity.

less village and the peasant
reappear, begetting children and burying seed in Mother Earth—
not inadequate swarm, over which the

 

a busy,

 

tempest of soldier-emperors passingly

 

 

("

 

And for every other day of the year
is available to you at PHINNEYS.
HEINTZMAN & CO PIANOS
WEBBER PIANOS

MARCONI and VICTOR RADIO
SHEET MUSIC andgRECORDS

 

456-460 BARRINGTON STi

 
Zi Y
Ba ype se ‘ *) L
Fa ~— ae lis — re .
i . . e - : 4
" yl at
De eee han er he
- j ; wr, ’ ‘ Pa
ss ere , he, Ae
.- « ait . tert Dae
ae i ty hy vr rie ~
es A, é . at
. re = { + =e
‘ fo tie hie a
#, han ae mer Ske

ints of the > Council of the Students and, having
\d papers requested, I find that they are correct.
ate ; Secretary-Treasurer lam pleased to know are
. , however, that the Council should impress upon
that the early return of their accounts to your |
‘ pin order to elimin inate difficulties which have been

ty that ‘the. accounts of the Coimcil of the Students and the
ith presen ated ares. ine my seston correct and complete.

a ae ras: (Signed) JAMES M. MACDONALD,
: aes Auditor.

ENT RECEIPTS. AND EXPENDITURES, 1932-33.

ae "COUNCIL. OF THE STUDENTS,

 

Sp 838 Ah Va sonnets ae 3 $ 2,401.42 |
; ' ST. 00
7 RECEIPTS
~ Student fees (L ee $8215 00.
det fe ig Raperiaite let — 857.14 $ 8,572. 14
| x erest........ Bb eee ar, , J 73. 13
rane on pent eee ae fae aw ere 6 = 40 .00
ee eT heeds eee wae 71.45
$ 8,756.72
Pgsises ati. Bh wasle ese Oeitle bsie 0 aie 631.10 m
Hospi spital Refund....-...+++ see obaltes bs kO,00
| Became cc 348 .50
same eS a on oF. 984 .60
EBitibe Gases Rec. maaatvrcks nite eds 2 ee 00
€ag beeen : Bae ees owe 15. 00 2
Sale Sweat Shirts..............2e0025, 4,50
Sole tay eg — 144 .00
: & |
ata ahi Mr nears Us ce ees ney SD .OO ;
Be Sa anne oA at at N= Sky Lago
ae z— ity Champs........ vies ie pla «ihe « albay 4.75
hg Mi Pit ie a ye eye pe Le 1,134 .35
ee bene fect cagde oir ing a cscreds den 379.14
St Daace! Keceip Meee SUES otal! 245 .00
~: rte Receipt we : 600 6 Orca 2 ole 8 & sores eens 16 .60
ek ebating Dance........ news eee) sip Pargse ob 13 .25
Sale of Berea teal aes lle. ts Sea ua ees Pek 25.00
Aton : 302 .85
N.F e vu. s. | Vabeta |
: Sg eral@ es bees Wieree el alle eeeenee a 68 .00
Ad Myst ii epee eeee . . eee ee henner oeeenr 782.63
 Subscriptions......... SOOM ciasahertaracdees 224. 30
: Ber oe 1,006. 93
oe. 25, fan sts | avec eaves 948. 00
a a eveere Oe 6.6 e bw we ee ¢ Fes . 561. 00
ef - 1,509. 00
Ee Lan ed ey ag CW ste gn 3 vo $ 15,615. 41
t ouNTS ice vAHik 1931-32, PAID.
sing Collections. . Pe Pea tet KH neck x ‘ 89.50 —
oe Puan ch de cones aa $2 6. 00
—-- 95. 50
TOTAL eines Beer Ui ae cet eves $16,710, 91
EXPENDITURES
es wy AR han WN eres teaver 2 ee, 88
Piste ce cee 2 — 50.00
eee wesc een t @ Ff e* . . . ¢ 25. 00
. . i Wie ee: Ct 6 eet oie © (0)'e € @ eeeee 84. 92
. Typewriter, eee “* 135. 00
Elec ction expense...... oa eevee @ eb e wien te ese we seeue 59.03
5 jone, Telegraph & Postage: SE et ee 61. 93
PRUE ep r tes 9. co Taney bre ov88 as ° 66. 70
lent Newspapers. Appa MCR One Eu ce ek oe et : 23. 88
' Presentations & eet ce. 50. 73
eS Be Dinner Danes: 5-0... + Bt was ok “* seen 49. 80

ih WAP et Se ihcediice Saks ~ 90.00

0 CO! ALL y

Se Nee ote Hee ee eee eee 70, 00
Day expense .j..svsasessceseeveeesees 269. 63
reste eee teen eenerees ieee ieuee 100. 00
es 1932-wit Lake ts Hits — 25.00
oe ioe a ‘ee “i
. pee sa Sati a
rent St eteeeeeee see re eee serene 72, 25 >
fee 1938-84............ nee Ps 25.00
Hea onsins 68 eee See

|D. A.A. C.

| Football ns
Trips—Mt.-A., Fred., Aeatin: Patel. 1,376. 62
Ss MUNINCREE abe! Woluia fda ay ess S's ts 423. 58
Em BRE So Mees yk tr adrigne. yc xhe 2 275. 81
Medical & Hospital Expenses.........:. 179. 91
BGO co ig cies novo ee WaTAS W oidpe ne 40. 00
Association Fee...... Ben fe eae: 5. 00
Advertising... ......; Sah aee Relies beg Wins 6. 60
_ Expenses Home Games (2)............. 78. 72
Payment on Athletic Field Account—
CHIEN’ EXNENSES 56s a ce He Pe ice 238. 38
Incidentals—wires, oranges, gum, car
BE OEE el! auc ig bates Tie oie x ook th ae 45.76
Basketball 2,670. 38
SE ete ey. ee ee ee ee eet eben 159. 44
PIPE Ga. UN Cer eta hin ag eRe ie Os 198. 95
Peamine ®t PADIG I. pcs ws cee Pps 57. 49
Senin “Genes ds hee bo Ta hale bee 195. 51
Referees & League fees............... 32. 90
City League Assessment.............. 22. 00
Wecicgl SUBDECB I... ka cs be mas ee ks 6. 85
Incidentals—wires, oranges, fares, etc. . 23. 44
696.58 |
Hockey
ANTE Sy Re I an a. Wit poy pc shin te 112. 00
Biitbortiay Ge, Gears oes vase oe eae? 85. 68
General. Equipment ......2.0.5 555 scdaee 13. 25
SAE re SEW 5 sch Medes lacs Md ed Cu ce BAD 45. 30
Share League Deficit... .... 00... 206 21. 59
Hospital & Medical Expenses.......... 9. 15
Incidentals—wires, oranges, fares, etc... 38. 74
——_———- 325. 71
Boxing.
ELCePDIMOI Gy as sagas tha ceo ne Hore ea eg 25 .60
Gite BOMtRs Sirs a0 oc edie ocd aa hie wale pe 8.07
Hospital & Med. expense... atk ach i 62 .50
Medical Supplies. .........:..+-++000. 5.70
PRES PERL AG eed Cea ie Cea es ede 1.65
BRU A ic Gig Pasi vtec dA ea eins we 1.50
105 .02
D. A. A. C.
Tennis ;
CHPOUNEOHIAU, cictwoie ears ee nse tele eh es $- 60.72
Trips—Acadia & Mt. A........-...405 36 .42
Wer eae Te ered Colas we eles 14.00
A eer re ae ae 5 .00
Pre PRO Oe es vice 43 6 a hres belo sine o's © 3.18
119 32
Track
Mar. Intercollegiate Championships... . 22.70
Medical Stipplies 5.2.6 .5.65.i seen. 2.00
24 .70
Soccer
Bauipmient.<.. fiji eee ees ots Wee Pag 64 17.95
Whaat ik. fos 1 oN Sass PATA eee Os 7.60
ERCIISNSOIN, ok 5 Coe we eae st CRs 1.25
} 26 .80
Wrestling
City Championships expenses.......... 16 .57
GONG co. COAT ee aie tole ke le oes we wa ees 3.00
-- 19 .57
Interfaculty
Football
Training TAGE... seen cede tees eee ve $ 69.69
ERGO POIs G rth ne Ran see ed care 1.00
++ 70.69
Hockey
Rinte beter do. eakle che che 33.6 sree ees 86.00
EA GORI s. felt a cstsTe binle eS bel 30s 1.00
87 .00
D. A. A. C.—General
PWOPCM re OPER Ri ble sare Oe Ce ety YS 119 .00
Preah icity $08. Sok Foo ci ae one wooedies 12 .00
—_—_— 131.00
Badminton.
Trip to Mount Allison...........-++-+. 67 .50
ChBELlECOCKSs 66 icicle os tates s eee bews PR eeeeen es 581.35
Restringing racquets... ........0see rer enereteens 32.00
Trip to Mount Allison............0 eee eee cece 67 .50
Ping Pong.
Table and Equipment...........sscee cree reer e etree teneees
BD. A; As'C.-"*
Basketball
De TL wee cee wns <i anes aie, ERG OO
EWM OMEAE icles oe ks ts Scie tHe egy Dew: 10.15
Referees, fees, et. ....-.++eeeeeeeeeees 20 .00
Share Int, Conf. Expense... c/o. is e+e 7.00
POMC Cire c spe ec ta aae LR Ut ee ee bes 24 .00
MOREE: Coc cce eirace ee eben 8 45
183 .85
Ice Hockey
BEN PRUs ag Genre Ka ei se Ce Kian teen Sele 64 .00
Equipment..... Otaaecet See es 13 .80
TRIER EAL Tie Ce Gtk Laity bee ieat # 8 6.53
———— 84 33
Ground Hockey
Trip— Windsor... 1.0.06. eres ee ee eees . 10.00
BaGinmedte cuss vice us cb uss Gs SAtise sts 2.75 |
12.75
Delta Gamma
Dance Expenses. .....-.:eeeseeerereeeees ep 265 .50
pe ee eee ee eer a ere et ren Ka Sta 126 .82
Debating Awards..........+++: oe eee PN ees 16 .00
' Expenses of Meetings............seeeeeeeeeeees 68 .74
_ Purchase of pin@.c. sss sceecee sent bewasesneenen 29 .25

 

 

 

 

Srey

  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
     
    
  
    
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
     
  
    

  

Glee Club

 

 

General Expense producing shows..........- ee ae Eo .ce
Properties Mt), 24 yen week SI ee in ke oh ae en eals 112.91
Furniture and Fixtures............ Ween oe tty 4 Fs 99 50
Salary—Property Manager............++. Ne la at 75.00
Band Instructor’s Salary...... Pan bee oweeee ste e. 25 .00
Rental Band Instruments. .......024 6. ees eclee- 20.00
Presentetiones <2 ccsaine sie: Sx iestore cian eb Uigiae ys Wes 7.00
Band Uniform—caps...........+. eee chatty fas ~~ 9.00
——— §$ 540.21
SODALES
N. F. C. U. S. Debate
Cigtattee i. 5 F556 20s Jie ee ew em me 100 .00
PRR OR Fe oh a Li aR eile nly Scdtatota wae bale 69.15
Eleven hes’, oS oA ee Rees 40.25 ,
Presentations 2s ie (ook ee laos 12.60
General, adv., tickets, etc.........+.5-. 30.15
252 .15
Acadia Debate c
Rail wity Fares och bcd. oak ere ee adel 15.35
nents, O20 wk ake Rha ev ee has 1.50
ss 16 .85
General
PRA VEPEERERIE YU. cabo aie wicrg aon eee oe abl 16 .33
PROGRV CR oh. ects fda a Hint oe Sal toh en ee 39 .05
FNCIGERTAIG Soe ued eptiene nee wees 1.75
a 57 .13
MODEL ASSEMBLY—League of Nations
Expenses ta meeting, 9. aij. uss asiietws sacs Pea e ds 79.20
— 405 .33
GAZETTE
PERS (SZ ch cy Ss peal en eRe eet Ue ere ee 1,561 .00
eka ace ath och le asd Ck ee wate Re eee Kee rl Sen 69 .68
aH ER rs So ICUs ein beh oe ES Wh Wigs whe Bee Os 138.61 :
SACO A Scindione SVs ale Hewes Od pace kee eins 225 .00 |
Oca; Raneneey. igs siies ds ssc as alin segue eae tian 112.73
Collections, postage, exchange, etc............... 164 52
Fransportation for Stalii. sch sie to dasa 94 40
BAR OUR Gs 6 oes vie a tien eos Cada edu aan Pema 90.33
BMOGHSGEL A. 6 Anke nn ache sea cep men em ames 28 .48
Burtitsre and Pictures « os ve.cc Severe els woe sible sirens 14.00
PRR Ti BOSE oe cha A ca eet eeten RE 98 .00
3,797 .69 Presentations c& Prizes go Ass, biasecas cece ees eee 16 .00
—— - 2,612.75
YEAR BOOK
Printing & Binding 300 books..$933 .00
Cute. ou kok Caer ek Raciwee 627 .61
——— 1,560.61
Leas GisGOUht are coy toe sees 60.00
———— 1,500.61 |
Seater Taio Po orice ca tanh daha awn caw Be 90.05 |
Advertising Commissions. ...........+.00..-4-- 162 .00
Pichi yer Sear t Sie BS Oo dhe wees ces wk 235 .25 |
SARMIEB oo caice ss ee ee nene oh Oe nee tb whi Meese 100 .00
Salen © OMINIGRIONS A tase Gund ys cbalescuee es es 18 30
Baran Care oy ic Mais Te cod ae de Bh we Gs, 4s Dees 5.58
CORUMER PONG oc Eo Se wie gos Heer kc Vee sats 5.83
Riree aaah ein ac eniwaay ork es whines 49.30 | a,
—_——_ 2,166 .90
TRYLAL, AGG ne AG COMIIW LS PAPERS oui cnt ee cee gies « $13,277 .43

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, 1931-32—PAID

 

 

 

 

Gazette
Bee TAI ond Si Ce aa He ee eK 3.50
Year Book
Salaries Accrued.............$100.00
1933-34 Advertising
Prepaid, W. H. Donovan..... 10.00
a 110.00
D. A. A. C.
Field Account Balance due Dalhousie
University, Sept. 30/82.............. 554 .43
667 .98
157 .69 $ 13,945 .36
CASH ON HAND AND IN THE BANK, June 30, 1933....... $ 1,765.55
$ 4,276.77 BALANCE SHEET
COUNCIL OF THE STUDENTS
Dalhousie University,
June 33, 1933.
680 .&5 So
21.53 ASSETS
Cash: ont atic andl 16. DSO o05 sire hee cde wh alee ude bs kaiee os Wels $1,765.
Boat to University Books Stores 3% coco os oes waves sob cab tes
Accounts Receivable:
Veee Rem Ase tienes whats Uk ih Hae CC onlkal Lx ps eS
Office Equipment
Coane: Sas sew ek Glee Go slo-vutserace al VA ees $135 .00
SAR GtES eS COE 1s os asker tie Wek 50.00
Cees C lapis PEOPLES. 5 cbs 5.8 5 esp ere dw vivapaicrn re Es) cvinipiere dove Ue ates
$2,255
LIABILITIES
Fe ee Fe GR kis Sa PAN Gi a ek arte ate eae eet tee ul
CADERAG Ar eye bite Ac oe cep al Cate te hae aha bee $2255 .55
280 .93 oa 2 are ae

 

I hereby certify that the above Balance Sheet is, in my opinion, a correct
statement of the financial condition of the Council of the Students.

(Signed) JAMES M. MACDONALD,

506 .31 Auditor.
 
 

 

  
  
  
   
  
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 

 

~ (BY = CREASE,
.
Pe Pooling back over the past college
it cannot be honestly said that
Dalhousie teams have been successful
in the field of sport. Having the best |
npaid coaches available and championship material from which to choose, the
a Dalhousie failed to carry off any

outstanding honors. The athletic gov_— erning body, the D. A. A. C., has beBoe a mythical and farcical unit and
done nothing to assist sport. It is to
= _ be hoped that next year this organizaa. Pa tion will be abolished or radically reos a organized. The Student’s Council had
made drastic cuts in athletic budgets
lel has spent less money on sport
this year than for many years thus hindtng the teams from making outside
re _ contacts which would be beneficial to
both the University and sport.

Seer
year
° Ast :

ie

FOOTBALL.

Under the capable direction of
**Mac” McCarthy, veteran coach of
_ champions, the Tigers turned out a
nice football machine which defeated
* - Acadia in the last minute of play,
he i decisively defeated the Wanderers and
_ Halifax United, and then blew high,
ee > wide, and handsome to lose to Acadia
i ae and Wanderers, barely managing to
Peo i % win their remaining game with United.
ahaa Four wins, two defeats, but no title
yo -. | and no trips.

| me “me Intermediates, 1932 champions
. fared badly due to injuries and connt change of personnel and won one,
two.on a schedule of several games.
t This record is far from creditable and
tects, directly on the University.

   
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
  

t The brand of rugger doled out in
rity circles was Soe

ave combined Engineers- Dentistiy out. fit sprung a surprise by fighting their
a way into a play-off with Law for the
title) Law won the title by a small
margin.

SOCCER.

The soccer team, coached by Mr.
Goudey, a former professional international player for Ireland and England, competed for the Dennis Cup
and the Milne Trophy. Dal, ousted
from the Dennis Cup series by R. C.
N. V. R. by a 4-1 score, came back in a
shutout win. Later the R. C. R. blasted Dal’s Milne Trophy hopes with a
single goal in the last moments of the
match The team was managed by
Frank Squire, Newfoundland’s pride,
who is responsible for the existence of a

soccer team. Well done, Frank, and
- better luck next year.

  
  

. BADMINTON.

 
 

Badminton has become tremendously
popular at Dalhousie and was going
ahead by leaps and bounds but for .a
recent setback. A badminton club
was organized and a league was formed. Unfortunately the collegians lost
every tournament yet they want bad‘minton made a major sport. It may
be a great game, popular, and all that
~ but when major D’s are issued for bad“ minton the whole system of athletic
awards might as well be abandoned
-* because they won’t be worth a darn.
a, _ Well, here’s success to badminton, any
way.

 
 

 
  
 

   
 

  

  

  

 
 
 

  

&

TENNIS.

 
 
 
 

  

  

this year, by any team.

oa

—
Foie >

  

*
a

eS Beet goes to Prof. Mercer, our athaa ss

ES
es

The Dalhousie racqueters with victories over Acadia and Mount Allison
again retained the Maritime InterSe ciate Tennis crown which is the
only title of note to be captured yet
Incidentally
- the girls won that as I understand that

7

‘A YEAR OF SPORT

SPORTS EDITOR)

 

HOCKEY.

The hockey team captured the City
Intercollegiate title but in an unsatisfactory manner and before the last half
of the schedule was completed. The
squad then took on Acadia in a sudden
death match for the Provincial Intercollegiate crowd but lost by a score of
3-2. Potter Oyler, senior Law student
and former Tiger star, coached the
team and produced a good one which
didn’t get a chance to show their
ability.

Interfaculty hockey went over with
a bang this year and ended with Meds
copping the honors from Law by a
score of 3-1 in the playoff. There
were six teams in the league and competition was keen and games keenly
contested before a winner was declared.
Doug Bent presided over the league
in a capable manner. Incidentally
it is Doug’s second year as captain of
the Tiger pucksters.

_

SOFTBALL.

Interfaculty softball under the management of Don ‘‘Scoop’’ Cameron,
was a big success this year and, after a
lengthy schedule had been completed,
Theology captured titular honors by
defeating Arts and Science in a best |
two out of three series which went the
limit. A great deal of interest was
shows in the games and credit is due
Jim Payne who acted as umpire.

BASKETBALL

The Senior Basketball team may yet
turn out to be Dalhousie’s mest successful team this year. The Tigers
won four of their six scheduled games
to tie for a playoff with Wanderers who

-had administered Dal'’s two defeats.
In the first game of the two game total
score series Dal defeated the Reds 424. It seems that the Provincial title
s ‘in the bag’. In addition the Bengals defeated Mount A. last year’s
Maritime champions in an exhibition
match. .
The Intermediates didn’t fare so
well and lost their last year’s title to
Saint Andrew’s. The Cubs won 5
games and lost 4 to finish near the top.
In exhibition matches they dropped a
close one to-Acadia at Acadia and over-whelmed Liverpool at Liverpool.

Interfaculty basketball is still going

  
 

Meds Take

Final Game |COMMENT

For Title

By defeating Law 3-1 at the Forum
last Friday Medicine won the Interf.
Hockey Championship. Medicine
were defeated but once and then by the
Arts squad, last year’s champions.

The game was very fast and clean
featured by nice stick-handling and
clever combination. Hinchey, ace of
the Law team, received a nasty gashs
over the eye at the beginning of the
second period and was forced to retire.

The first chapter opened with both
teams playing a semi-defensive game.
Donohoe and MacLennan combined on
several dangerous rushes but Bob MacLellan saved nicely. Ryan opened the |
scoring for Meds when he beat MacLellan on a pretty pass from Christie.

The second canto opened fast with
both teams turning on the steam.
Hinchy was accidentally hurt when he
crashed with Miller and was forced to
retire. MacQueen and Godwin combined nicely but couldn’t beat Begg in
the Med nets. Ryan made the score
read 2-0 when he again combined with
Christie to beat MacLellan.

The third chucker was very even
with Law trying desperately to score
Godwin revived the Lawyer's hopes
when he scored on a pass from MacSween. However, Donohoe put the
game on ice when he beat MacLellan
ona passfrom Russ MacLennan. The
game closed with Law forcing the play.

Ryan, Christie, Donohoe and MacLennan were outstanding for Med.
while MacSween, Godwin, Miller and
MacLellan were the pick of the Law
outfit. Doug Bent refereed very satisfactorily.

Line-ups.

LAW—Goal—MacLellan. Defense—

Manning, Fergusson. Forwards—

Murray, MacSween, Hinchey, God
win, Miller.
MEDICINE—Goal—Begg. Defense

Peters, Miller, LeBrun. For_ wards—Young, Donohoe,’ Ryan,

Christie, MacLennan.

ee

Dal co-eds lost the final game with
H. L. A. C. with a score 19-17 thus losing the league.

The intermediate team their
game and thus won the league—un
won

defeated! Chan Stuart, Mary Simmins and Kay MacDonald played
very good defense; Kay MacDonald

strong with Law leading one section
and Freshmen and Arts and’ Science
tied for first place in the other. Law
looked good for a win and have as yet
been undefeated. This league is being
handled by Borden Stoddard.

BOXING.

Boxing has increased in popularity
at Dalhousie and the mitt artists are
out to cop the Maritime Intercollegiate crown which they so narrowly missed last year. With the cream of St.
F, X’s last year’s champions attending
Dal the Gold and Black may yet carry
off the trophy in this sport.

WRESTLING.

The followers of the ‘‘grunt and
groan’’ pastime have increased in
numbers this year and wrestling seems
to be the order of the day. Plans are
being made for a meet with Halifax
Y. M.C. A. and this should take place
soon. Even “Blimp” Weitz is a rassler.

it was due to them that U. N. B. fell
5] ‘fore the Black and Gold. The real

SWIMMING.

The newly organized Swimming
Club copped the City Swimming

showing skill in her pass work. On
the defense Ruth Skaling and Bab.
Trites succeeded in breaking up H. L.
A. C’s passes.

Championships at the Y. M. C. A. pool
and are practicing,for a meet with the
strong Acadia team in the near future.
Good luck, natators.

PING PONG.
The Dalhousie ping -pong artists
headed by Leo Green, are firmly entrenched in second place in the City
League. As we go to press the deciding match is being played with the
Y. M. C. A. but there is little hope
that Dal will cop the honors. Ping
Pong has become quite popular and
both tables are constantly in use.

Now we present the Interfaculty
champions of 1938-34.
FOOTBALL—Law.
TRACK-—Freshmen.
SOF TBALL—Theology.
HOCKEY—Medicine.
BASKETBALL—(Uncompleted).
This ends our summary of sport for

the past college year—a fair showing

but not outstanding. Next year is
another year—let us hope it will be one
of outstanding successes. Now for
exams,

 

SPORT

The Annual meeting of the
Dalhousie Amateur Athletic
Club will take place on March
22nd. In past years this meeting has been attended by about
50 students.

Dalhousie

Criticism
manner in
run during

Every male student at
is a member of this Club.
has been rampant of the
which Athletics have been
the past season.

If you do not agree with the
way in which things have been
done, come and express your
criticism and opinions. It is
rumored that several prominent ‘‘campus men’’ will voice
their opinions.

It must be admitted that Interf.

Sport has been very poorly run during

the past year. The Tennis T
picked without every one being given a

eam was

fair chance and Tennis is now a major

sport.

The Hockey Team played
but three games during the
past The football
team was picked not by the
Coach but by manager and
The above
are just a few criticisms picked
up about the campus.

season.

captain as well.

It is usually
Writers (pardon me} to write in glowing terms of the highlights of the Sporting Year. But that is done elsewhere
in this issue. this column
will write of other things.

customary for Sports

So we in

‘12 points put the Alma Mater far ahead

  

L TIGERS TAKE BIG LEAD IN BASKETBALL SERIES

Dal Tigers Take 24-Point

Lead Over

Wanderers

 

Flashing a brilliant and powerful
attack and treating the fans to a sensational exhibition of basketball as it
should be played, the Dalhousie Tigers
will carry a 24 point margin into the
final game of the two game total score
series by virtue of their decisive win
over the Wanderers at the Y. M. C. A.
last Saturday night. The final score
was 48-24 and the last game for the
City League Championship will be
played at Studley on Monday evening.
Sensational teamwork combined with
accurate shooting and deadly passing
gave the collegians a 23 point lead in
the first period to which they added
another point in the final frame.
Smarting from two defeats by narrow
margins at the hands of the Reds the
Bengals presented a snappy smooth
working team that could not be beaten. !
It is impossible to pick a star from the
Dal roster but if anyone was outstanding in the hectic battle it was “Big
Bill’? Gladstone whose beautiful passing and defensive work coupled with
brilliant shooting which netted him

in the initial period. Bernie Ralston
Don Bauld, Mit Musgrayv
Fairstein played brilliantly as did AndDoug Crease. All in all
Dalhousie presented an outfit of individual stars who cooperated to work
like a well oiled machine. Woodworth
of the Wanderers and his teammates,
Piers and Young, were the pick of the
losers who were bewildered at the surprising reversal of form showed by the
Dalhousiansand played loosely throughout. An almost perfect performance
of man to man guarding by the Tigers
in the opening frame featured the match
but the collegians tended to coast nal
on their substantial margin in the final
half.

e, and Sam

erson and

|!
A Sensational Exhibition. a

Ralston scored on the opening tip |
off on a long bat from Gladstone and

| baskets by Bauld and Musgrave plusa

Badminton a ‘‘major sport’ ’

is the latest idea put forth by
the Council. Personally we
think there should be but
three major sports at Dal,
namely Football, Hockey and
Basketball.

Boxing with one Intercollegiate Meet
a year is a. Major Sport, Track with
about two trackmen in College is a
Major Sport and Tennis with its short
season is a Major Sport.

Notwithstanding the above
the past year has not been a
bad one. But if Athletics are
going to be put on a firm basis
oh well, lets turn out to the
Dra & 'C. Sis ak

And then again we musn’t forget that
all the members of executives at Dal
act voluntarily. If the positions were
offered us we should probably
them down,

turn
yet we must criticize.

|
2 ae

Interfacalty Hoop
League Standing

SECTION A:

Won Lost

Arts & Science 3 ]
Freshmen 3 2
Medicine 2 2
Engineers 0) 4
SECTION B:

Law 4 0
Dentistry 2 2
Theology 2 2
Commerce 0 4

foul shot by Gladstone put Dal ahead |
7—0 with one minute and 26 seconds
of play gone. The Reds took time out
and Piers scored immediately upon resumption of play but Ralston countered for Dal with a long shot from the
side. Kerr tallied for the Reds but
Gladstone and Ralston, scoring alternately, heaved in 12 points before the
Reds scored on a shot by Captain Piers.

Gladstone again scored giving the Ben- | Goudey 2, Woodworth 8,

gals a 21-6 lead and Wanderers took |

 

their second time out. But the fast
moving college machine could not be
halted and two heaves by Musgrave
and one by Bauld found the hoop to
increase the lead to.27-6. Woodworth,
Musgrave, Young, and Ralston scored
in that order before the period ended
with Dalhousie topping a 33-10 score.
The Tigers gave demonstration of ball in this period and though
the Wanderers used substitutions galore the Black and Gold

couldn't be stopped.

a lovely

quintette

Reds Hold Tigers Even.

For four minutes of the second period
both teams tried hard for score.
Fairstein and Anderson tallied in quick
succession for Dalhousie both
counters were disallowed. Almost immediately Sammy rang up a score
the side, then Woodworth, Musgrave,
Fairstein and Woodworth scored before Wanderers took their third time
out with the Blackshirts leading 39-14.
Doug Crease came in for Don Bauld
and the collegians counted on a

a

but

> from

foul

shot by Fairstein and a long one by
Ralston to increase the lead 42-14.
At this point Dalhousie seemed disorganized and Wanderers, taking advantage of the breaks, tallied four
times without a return on shots by
Young, Goudey, Harris and Kerr be
Dal with a
scored

fore Ralston broke in for
long heave. Ralston
from close-in on a long pass from Anderson but Woodworth
the Reds. Gladstone
other for Dal before the
blew with Dalhousie leading 48

A victory, and by such a
for the collegians proved the
basket
points

again
countered for

threw in anfinal whistle
-24,

decisive
margin,
| biggest upset of the current
ball campaign.

s a lot to make up but the Wanderers

Twenty-four

are famous for coming from behind
|and plenty can happen before next
Monday. However, we feel safe in

laying the cash on the collegians to
take the series but we wouldn't be at
all surprised to see the Reds take the
final game, and if the
their famous loafing act we lose our
cash. Be at the gym Monday
to support the team.

Clyde Sperry and Vic Regan refereed.

DALHOUSIE—Bauld 4, Crease.
Ralston 17, Fairsteain 5, Gladstone 12,
Musgrave 10, Anderson. Total 48.

WANDERERS—Piers 4, Young 4,
Har
Tigers haul off

night

Grant,
ris 2, Kerr 4.

- Interfaculty Basketball

 

{

Last Thursday night saw Law confinue their unbroken list of wins to
take undisputed leadership of Section |
B of the Interfaculty Basketball League |
and Arts and Science come from be- |
hind to beat Medicine and place in a
first place tie with Freshmen for Sec- |
tion A Leadership. The Freshmen
routed the

won from Commerce by default. The

_ playoffs for sectional honors and the

league championship should be closely
contested and will undoubtedly produce some good basketball—for Interfaculty.

The first game was the closest and
most exciting of the evening. Law,
weakened by the loss of ‘“‘Chukker”’
Lorway, star pivot man, barely eked
out the decision in a sensational last
minute rally. Playing nice ball, Dentistry rolled up a small lead in the hrst
period and led 14-8 at half time.
Coming out for the last period the
Dents added to their lead and had the
game ‘“‘in the bag,” but a sensational
belated rally by the Lawyers netted
them a two point lead. Dentistry
came back strong but Law protected
their lead and won by a 20-18 score.

Arts & Science 35— Medicine 25.
Arts and Science with
second period
cine’s early lead and went on to win
handily by a ten point margin. Medicine led at half time by 12 to 9 but with
Miller, Simon, and Lebowitz

a powerful
rally wiped out Medi
finding

Engineers and Theology | the hoop in the second period the Meds

were outclassed and took a 35-25 de
feat.

Si Miller and Simon, who divided 16
points between them, led the Artsmen
while Shandalov “Gump” Young
with the same total topped the Med

scorers,

and

Freshmen 45—Engineers 22.

In the evening’s final contest the
first year quintette romped through
a weak Boilermakers’ outfit to cap a
45-22 décision. The Engineers were
widely outplayed throughout and trailed 29-13 at half time. The second
half served to increase the Freshmen's
lead and the final score was 45-22 in
their favor. Henry Ross with 21 and
Kitz with 10 were highliners for the
Frosh while McRae and Williamson
were the pick of the Engineers.

 
  
          
     
  
       
          
     
        
     
  
        
    
 
     
      
 
      
— ey ee

 

a
ee,

 
 
   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

‘|. Easter Fashions at EATON’S

-March 16th 1934 |

     

~

: Easter is but two weeks away and the Store is ready with the newest in garments
oe and accessories---for the junior Miss, Misses and Women---and a
oe : splendid selection for College Men.

 

 

a Spri Coat
B pring Coats
es

| Polo--Ascot and Balmaccan
é| }

ee Styles:

t . It's a great season for Coats. ...and EATON'’S has had
A a great time securing the pick of the fashion line-up for
a): smart Haligonians’ approval. What joy to know that
% these wanted fashions can be yours for as little as $19.75.
£ So cleverly tailored, too. Monotone tweeds..... .colo: rful tweeds......polo cloth. .....ripply lapels. . .scarfs
ot that button or are drapedinto line for the windswept
K) vogue. It’s your chance to get the smartest coat you've
Feel had in a long while for an enticingly low figure. Misses’
i sizes, in beige, blue and brown tones. Each
19.75

.

FS

Ey

FE Beautiful

| New Blouses
cl .

4 To Wear With Your Easter Costume

Materials include silk and rayon satins and crepes,
organdy, etc. Styles with long and short sleeves, fagotting, ticking, pleating or embroidery, also strictly tailored
types. Sizes 34 to 44. Each

$1.00 .. $9.00

Eaton's Third Floor
New Frocks

Reflect Adorable Whims of Style! " Sori ;
The very fashions to make you look a new person this Spring. gay a & pring Hats for Every Occasion

Pretty pastel ...vivid tones...-darker shades....and all with i
dashing little touches that could only be Spring 1934. Look for de
pleats, ruffles, flares, organdy. ...all used in such a manner as to
give that ‘‘Wind-swept”’ line so talked of this season.

 

  
    
  
   
   
  
   

Dobbs—sportswomen and tailored types will rejoice over these hats of Dobbs
creation. Impeccable felt—new outlines—several with flat back—and a
color choice of brown, navy and black. Each

$12.00 to $15.00
pager ces 2.95 to 41.95
Spring Hats, each PLS ,, 20.00

Eaton's Third Fioor

Swagger Crepe
Stockings

The Choice of Discriminating
Women!

Popularly priced at $1.25 a pair. Extra sheer

chiffon crepes with picot tops and dull finished.
Newest spring colors. Sizes 84 to10. Pair

$1.25

Eaton's Main Floor

EATON’S Introduces The New
géatonia Two Trouser Suits

Featuring the Latest Style Trends for Men and Young Men!

Rough silk crepes in misses’ and women’s sizes, 14 to 20 and 36 to 44.

Moss green, attar rose, glacier blue, lido, brown, pheasant, navy
and black.

: Each $8.95 .. $19.50

Eaton’s Third Floor

Piqgues Are With Us
Again-
| | A Coming Event In The New

| |) at EATON’S Gloves

Ee larly priced slip-ons of the
| The Formal ee oy ade
| Smartly styled with flaring cuffs

| Presentation and hemstitched edge. Egg
shell, brown, white and black.
Sizes 54 to 74. Pair
of

: $1.00
Spring aie’
Fashions

Displayed by Mannequins in the
Ready-to-wear department— make a
note of the dates—

Evening Show

| MONDAY, MARCH 19th,
| At 8.00 p.m. ©

Afternoon Show

| TUESDAY, MARCH 20th
| At 2.30 p. m.

 

———

 

; ate

 

 

 

 

Eatonia suits were $25.00 with one pair of trousers—now they have TWO pairs at exactly the same
price. Eatonia suits feature the latest style trends, and an exceptional standard of fabric and workmanship. eh ts

Monday we present a line of suits that is outstanding in every way. There are models for everyone.
A great and varied assortment of serges, tweeds and worsteds in the very newest patterns and

colorings. Priced at, Each
$25.00

i
i
:

Turn to Eatonia for Latest Style Trends—‘‘Guaranteed the Best Regular Value in Town.’’

Eaton’s Main Floor

%

4

T. BATON Cons

ete ee oe ee

 
