 
 
      

 

| Former Dal
_ Student Airs
_ Peace Views

rn The Dalhousie Gazette, _

ae Biss

ne o j
ks aor

     

_ Ideas such as those put forward by
_ Miss Henry in her letter which was
printed in your issue of 26th October
will not bring about that peace which
she seems so earnestly to desire. Peace
- ¢an only be founded on good will and
mutual understanding, and this can
_never be achieved as long as misguided
persons in any country continue to
ss sneer at the claims or desires of any

other country.

ss Germany hasa perfect right to claim
---—— equaiity with France, and the United
| _. Kingdom in anything that she wishes.
| Germany is a nation which culturally
___ and economically is certainly the equal

if not the superior of either of those two

_ couhtries. The Treaty of Versailles

- forced Germany into a position of in
_ feriority tor which no precedent existed

and for which no justification can be

claimed today by any of the Allied or
Associated Powers.

The situation, to my mind, is aptly
summed up in the following extract
a from a speech delivered at Berlin last
_ night (6th November) by Baron von
‘ Neurath, the German Minister of
3 eign Affairs. ‘‘In 1919, instead of
! ‘the war weary nations alasting,

  
 
 
  
  
 

“es ne Mae peciae.

. ee. at Versailles and jee: ‘he van__ quished down permanently. It was the
connection with Versailles that had
prevented the League from becoming
~ M3 really universal, as the aloofness of the
__-United States and Soviet Russia showed,

‘It was possible, Baron von Neurath

continued, for victorious powers to
create for themselves an apparatus for

the openly admitted and brutal purpose of keeping the vanquished lasting_ ly under; an organization of powers
--—s with equal rights for the sincere pursuit of common aims was also possible;
-. but what was impossible in the long run
was a combination of the two, which
could only mean that the outward form

of co-operation was made merely the
setting forth for the achievement of
selfish aims, and the organization became merely the one sided executor of
the wishes of the victorious powers.”’

As regards not the moral but the

legal right to equality in armaments,
the position of Germany is not quite so
clear. Her demand is really based on
three things: first, Article VIII of the
Covenant of the League by wnich all
members recognize that ‘‘the maintenance of peace requires the reduction of
national armaments to the lowest point
consistent with national safety and the
enforcement by common action of international obligations;’’ second, the
preamble to the Military Clauses of the
b ae Treaty of Versailles by which Germany
By ate is obliged to disarm ‘‘in order to render
possible the initiation of a general lima geen of the armaments of all nations,
[ge third, the promise oi equality made at
ae _ Geneva last December, such equality
/ (oa _ being contingent upon the satisfactory
a, ee. establishment of ‘‘a system which
b ot would provide security for all nations.”
/ ___ In connection with these three points,
3 % ie following remarks should be made.
foe apt: | Article VIII of the Covenant leaves it
a to, each member state to decide the
imit to which it can safely reduce its
vr arms, The second point, the pre»le to the Military Clauses of the
aty of Versailles, does not even forew “reduction” but merely ‘‘lim_ 3 armaments. As regards

~

ea

ee

Alea I

   
   
 
   
   
  
     
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
   

 

c just peace, an association.

| tivities of college life.

 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
  

Freshman Class
Party Is. Is Success

A gay party of students gathered in
the Grill Room of the Nova Scotian
Hotel last Thursday evening to attend
the Freshman class party. As usual
the numbers were dominated by upperclassmen.

Led by Jerry Naugler’s soothing
music, couples wiled away the hours
between nine and 12.30 dancing, anff
only stopped for refreshments which
were served at the ,half-way mark.
The crowd was not arge, but those
present all agreed that it was a great
party.

Due to the dance being informal,
there were alarge number of Paul Jones
adding much to the gaiety of the occasion, especially when the men crashed
into the orchestra knocking over three
music stands and entangling several
saxaphones and clarinets in the mess.

Thanks are due to Prof. and Mrs.
Murray MacNeil for chaperoning the
party, and also to the committee in
charge who attended to all details in
such a capable manner.

Shirreff Hall
Notes

 

The general consensus of opinion at
Shirreff Hall seems, to be that the writer of last week’s Knockers’ Corner was
somewhat unjust in his criticism of its
inmates. He says that with every advantage that a residence gives the Shirreff Hall girls do not partake in the acThis is untrue.
They are as fairly represented in all activities as the boys, for their number is
approximately one-ninth of the college
enrollment. It is certainly fair to say
that there is one girl who debates, is
active in Glee Club or plays basketball
for every eight boys who do so. In
fact, the percentage representation is
generally much higher than that.

True we go to college dances but is it

not to our credit that we are both able
to dance and to do something else besides? At present Delta Gamma,
which is giving a tea dance tor the benefit of the Community Chest Fund is also working on a production for Glee
Club. It would seem better to commend our moderation in holding only
one dance than to criticize us for having no other interest.
It the co-eds are so ineffectual and unintelligent as some people make out,
it seemis strange that the vastly superior mates spend so much valuable
time in their company.

Be that as it may, some o1 the boys
will be glad to hear that the Sunday
night socials around the ping pong
table are going to be continued this
year. Miss McKeen has posted a list
to be signed by all those who wish to
pay 28c for a table, and if the number
of signatures continue to increase as
rapidly as it has done so far we should
be able to start in another month.
Just one incident which illustrates that
we do something besides ‘‘sleep little’,
“eat less,’ and dance much.

——_—#+#-— ——
NOTICE.

There will be a short meeting of all
heckey players in the Lower Gymnasium to select suitable hours for P. T.
classes, Thursday (to-day) at noon.

ment Conference on the very day that
Germany announced her resignation
It is evident, then, that from a purely legal point of view Germany’s demand for equality in arms falls to the
ground. But this can be no excuse for
overlooking the moral side of the question, or for ceasing to endeavour to
find, even at some considerable sacrifice to ourselves, some formula which
will resto1e harmony among the Great
Powers.

I am, Sir,
Yours sincerely,

- Jj. F. CAHAN.
London, Eng., Nov. 7.

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 28rd. 1938.

 

azette

Offi ied Student Publication at Dalhousie Dadvavgaty

 

No. 9

 

 

Proposed Harvard Debate At 78 e
May Be Held Next Spring \~( reser eOneses

 

The Council of the Students met in
the Munro Room at 2 p. m. on November 18th. The President wasin the
chair and all members were present
except Mr. Richardson. Mr. Oxley,
President of Sodales, reported that, in
all probability, the proposed debate
with Harvard University would have
to be cancelled due to difficulty in arranging a suitable date. He mentioned a possibility of holding this debate
in the spring.

There was considerable discussion
over the Glee Club constitution with a
view to making it as complete as possible in order to prevent any future difficulty arising therefrom. The Council considered, at considerable length,
various proposals for publishing a Year
Book and asked Mr. Archibald, the
Business Manager, to get certain information before definitely going ahead
with the publication.

The Council decided that a ‘‘strongbox”’ should be purchased in which to
store the football equipment. Incidentally, the football gear has all been
turned in for the first time in history.
The sum of $5.00 was voted to the
Swimming team to cover the cost of
affiliating with the Maritime Swimming Association,

—— we

The President reported that the form
of the parchment to be presented to
Malcolm Honour Students had been decided upon and the Council decided
that the necessary number of parchments should be procured and presented
to all members of the Malcolm Honor
Society.

The date for the Commerce—Engineering Dance was set as January 19th
provided that this date does not conflict with any previously planned University function.

The following committee was appointed to draw up plans for the celebration of Munro Day during the postChristmas term:

Howard Oxley, Chairman.

Beth Atherton

Robert Stanfield.

After some discussion of the series
of lectures arranged this term for the
Freshman Class, Mr. Thompson was
complimented on his work and the
Council expressed itself as being heartily in favor of such a course.

The meeting adjourned at 4.45 p. m.

M. M. RANKIN,

Secretary- Treasurer.

 

S. C. M. Supper|Comm.-Engineers
Meetingis Held | Dance Jan. 19

On Friday, Nov. 17, the S. C: M.
held a successful supper meeting in St.
Andrew’s Hall. Among the sixty
people present were study group leadersand membersof the Advisory Board.
Students were given identification tags
and cards for collecting autographs.
By means of these two devices everyone had a good opportunity of getting
acquainted.

After disposing of an excellent supper furnished by the Ladies Aid of St.
Andrew’s, the group joined in singing
led by Howard Kennedy with Wiltred
Boothroyd at the piano. There followed a short but informing program.
Rey. J. Norrie Anderson gave the group
glimpses of the movement as he had
seen it in Great Britain and India.
Membership in the Student Christian
Movement, he claimed was an ‘open
Sesame’ to rich fellowship with groups
of students wherever one travelled.
He especially recommended to the students the contributions that are made
through conferences. Short reports on
studies taken up by the various S. C.
M. discussion groups were then presented by Wendall Hewson, Mona
Strum, Dr. Bronson, John Fisher, Don
Archibald and Eirene Walker, Statewere made to the effect that these
groups were valued by many of their
members more than any one lecture
course they were taking at the University. It was claimed that the discussion method and the types of problems discussed were more conducive
to creative thinking alongsocially desirable lines.

The president of the S. C. M. briefly
outlined the program and aims of the
Movement in Dalhousie and the meeting was then brought to a close.

ea reat ae atta

Dr. F. H. Prince was elected Honorary President of the Dalhousie Sociology Club, at their annual meeting
held last Thursday afternoon in the
Arts Building. The retiring President,
Kenneth Sullivan, was in the chair
and there was a very large attendance
of members and prospective members.
Mr. Sullivan outlined briefly the aims
and objects of the Club for the benefit
of new members.

The past year’s work was reviewed
and plans were made for the activities
of the Club during the coming season.
The following officers were elected for
the coming year: President—G. Haviland;Vice President— Miss Doris Pugslley; Secretary-Treasurer— Miss Lili ian
Love.

HERE IT IS—You'’ve been asking
about it—you wondered whether they
would combine or not. Well, they
have and Dalhousie is to once more
have her great socialevent. The Commerce and Engineering faculties take
pleasure in announcing that the ‘‘MILLIONAIRES - BOILERMAKERS
BALL.” will be held on the evening of
Friday, January 19, 1934.

In the past these individual dances
have been the talk ot Dalhousies social
sattelites. What will they say when
they hearofthismerger. The ‘‘BOILERMAKERS BALL,” which runs a
close second with the famous ‘'Teck”
event, has always been considered the
very peak of Dalhousies extra-curricularlife. When the Engineers announced
a dance everyone took notice. Likewise, the Commerce boys have built
up a reputation for their Millionaires
ball. This announcement of the combination culminates several days discussion between the two executives
who have been formulating plans to
make this dance the greatest Ball in
Dalhousie’s social history. We belive
we can do so. It will be the only big
dance after Christmas, and coupled
with the prestige that the combinname gives, a record crowd can be expected. With this as our basis we can
afford to offer attractions that no other
single society has done. Look at the
attractions when they are posted.
Here are some of the suggestions:

The finest orchestra in the city, the
best hotel, a master of ceremonies to
conduct a special show, coloured floor
show, door prizes, extra long music and
no stags. We will set a limit on the
number of tickets sold so as to afford
every convenience to those attending
You had better place your orders early.
Shall we reserve a place for you?
Watch the posters there may be more
in store for you.

0 sete

DEBATE.

When Dr. Alfred Zimmern of Oxford lectured a tew weeks ago in the
Dalhousie Gymnasium he stimulated
interest in many subjects that are of
world wide importance. One of these
will be the subject of a debate in the
School for the Blind, on Tuesday evening November 28th at 8 o'clock.

‘That the Boycott as a substitute
for War is feasible.’’

Ten Largest

The growth of some of the universities in Canada in recent years has
been one of the interesting features in
the realm of education. The latest
report shows that the ten largest Canadian universities in the Dominion in
respect of students of university grade
are as follows: University of Toronto
7,490; University of Montreal 3,759;
University of Manitoba 3,309; Queen's
3,184; Laval 2,852; McGill 2,714; University of Saskatchewan 2,661; University of British Columbia 1,989;
University of Alberta 1,690; and Western University at London, Ontario,
1,552, In respect of total enrolment,
Laval holds first place with 14,590;
Montreal comes second with 12,763;
Toronto third with 8,088, followed by
Manitoba with 4,290;McGill 4,015;
Queen’s 3,904; Saskatchewan 2,962;
British Columbia 2,772; Ottawa 2,573
and Alberta 1,9388.—(N. F. C. U. S
Service.)

 

PF eee

Engineers Are

Guests Of E. I. C.

——_._—__ __—

It was Edison who said that success
consists of about 98% perspiration and
2% inspiration. Most of the students
will agree that there is plenty of perspiration at Dalhousie, though perhaps
the inspiration is sometimes lacking
and the time when we will blossom
forth as full-fledged engineers seems
faraway. It is our good fortune however, to be associated with the Engineering Institute of Canada, and last
Thursday night at a meeting of the
Institute to which the embryo engineers
were invited, we were given a glimpse
of the future towards which we are
working.

The meeting took the form of a discussion of the problems of the graduate. Mr.H.S. Johnson, the chairman,
commented on the present conditions
in the profession. Mr. Howard Fellows, of the N. S. Power Commission,
discussed the relations of the individual
to the profession and of the profession
to the public. He stated that the present trend was towards the tightening
up of the standards for exiance to the
profession, and demanding more cultural knowledge and experience of the
candidateforadmission. Mr. Winfield
Plant Supt., of the Mar. Tel. and Telegraph Co., spoke of some of the questions which the graduate must answer
forhimself. He stated that the graduates should definitely make up his mind
where he was going and avoid drifting
from job to job. He felt that it was
better for the engineer, as soon as he
has sufficient experience, to enter small
growing concerns; rather than large
corporations. The modern trend of
industry is towards decentralization
and smaller plants; and this he believed
constituted a real opportunity for futureengineers. Andit was pointed ovt
that the Maritimes are particularly
suitable for this small one-man type of
industry. He also stated that the engineers who adds business and organizing ability to his technical knowledge,
is invariably a very valuable man and
goes much further than the mere technician.

After the speakers had finished several prominent engineers took part in
the discussion. After the meeting refreshments were provided by the hosts.
All those present apreed that it was a
capital evening and that they had received a great deal of real benefit.

 

The affirmative will be upheld by
Dr. Clarence MacKinnon, and Mr. C.
M, Nicholson, Pine Hill.

The Negative wil be upheld by Rev.
J. Norrie Anderson and Mr. Howard
Oxley, Law School,

This subject should be of great interest to all students.

Radicalism
Ils Fomented
At Dalhousie

The most startling disclosure resulting from student discussion on international events is the surprisingly large
number of radicals among us. These
same sons of revolution mdke no secret
of their unorthodox tendencies, but
rather take advantage of every opportunity to flout their maxims of destruction in public view. The result is that
solid conservatives are beginning to
wonder if that old mother of conservatism Dalhousie University, is hatching
young Bolsheviks who some day will
destroy our present order.

The situation, however, is rather for
Dalhousie’s credit than to her disgrace.
A college which produces a thousand
students, whose minds are of our orthodox pattern is merely a machine and is
thus failing in primary purpose
which is to teach people how to think.
The surprising fact that a college which
teaches its students how to think, produces many radicals can be explained
if we may be allowed to indulge into a
little psychology. The student who
has just learned how to think is like a
young bird who hds just learned how
to fly. As the young bird enthusiast
flaps with its new tound power and at
its

‘tempts to fly into space when older,

more experienced birds fearto use, so
the youthful student enthusiasticaily
attempts to tread on new paths which
his less emotionel elders fear might
end in destruction. The student confident of his new power and seeing the
present defects which have almost inevitably accompanied every form of
government, quickly applies his new
ideas to the old machinery forgetting
to realize that he may be unable to put
the parts together again.

The second cause of student radicalism is a more practical and material
one. The student class is an exclusive
one representing but 1% of the total
population of Canada. Thus the student feels that he is entitled to more
returns from his country than those
who have not been so mentally developed. However, he finds that general
practice in the outside world is contrary
to what he expects it should be. He
finds himself forced to take a secondary
and less honorable position to people
whose sole knowledge of view is that it
is the city in Michigan where Al Capone lived. Disappointed and disMlusionment follow, follow grounds for
the seed of radicalism. Thus the
greatest agitator in India is not the
prince or peasant, but the Oxford
trained Hindu, Hitler’s most enthusiastic followers are not grizzled war
veterans, but the products of dear old
Heidelberg and the University of Berlin,

Thus we cannot blanie our alma
mater if the utensil it places in the hand
of its sons turns out instead of being
the plough it intended but rather a
sword.

 

U. K. C. Notes

Once again the halls of the King’s
College Residence echoed to the music
of Jerry Naugler and his orchestra,
when thelast student body dance of the
term was held on Nov. 16th. Some
sixty couples attended and danced in
the warmly-lit Haliburton and Faculty
Rooms. A ceiling of red and white
streamers completed the effect of warm-~th and cheeriness.

The music was exceptionally good, a
pleasing combination ct dreamy waltzes
latest fox-trot hits and old favorites.
In fact, the dance ‘‘clicked”’ from beginning to end, and the committee
headed by John Gladwin, is to be congratulated on giving us a thoroughly
enjoyable evening.

The chaperones for the evening were
Dr. and Mrs. A. H. Moore, Miss M.
Mason, and Prof. and Mrs. A. R. Jewitt.

 
 
     
   
   
      
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
  
      
  
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
   

EDITORIAL STAFF.

a DUCHEMIN,B. B.A. pees W. H. JOST, B. A
oi O A sy ee E ey Oe fae
fades B. 9608. ef - : . B. Sets. .

e Ba; i SS Associates: :
esp FRE BEMANSTEWART - BORDEN STODDARD
-_.  - FRANK GOUDGE. | - JAMES MACKINTOSH.
eae _ DAVID R. ALLAN EDWARD ARAB
— ere sce NEWS DEPARTMENT.
_ DOUGLASCREASE. G. H. MURPHY HARRY SUTHERLAND.
oe B. 67 - Be2i9 B. 5487.
tf = ; a Associates.
MERLE PURTILL MARTHA KENISTON | MARY SIMMONDS
| SPORTS
| TED CREASE B. 5787 DON. CAMERON RUTH SKALING
; i. 5 - BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.
| Manager. Circulation Assistant Manager.

_ DAVID H. HOLLAND. C.R.MACDONALD HOWARD C. OXLEY, B. A.

THE CALL TO ARMS.

ate Twenty-nine students turned up for the student forum called
a week ago on the question “In the event of war shall we fight for
- King and Country?’ The fact is worthy of note, even if, as has
* been en alleged, the meeting was in sufficiently advertised. We leave
ae the ‘matter of the forum with the bald statement of fact that so few

ee _ were present for the discussion that the forum was cancelled, a fact
i from which interested persons may ame any eareees they deem
as ropos the topic we here reprint without comment
alg eae anaes tGiaihis of March tenth, 1916:

“3 pe .

< age the editorial appearing in the

ete “Tt i is the duty of every man who is physically fit, between the ages of 18
and 45, to enlist. That is the proposition which facesevery mantoday. There
is one exception, andone only, that of men who are employed in industries which

are necessary to the carrying on of the war All others must face their duty or

be enrolled among the shirkers and slackers. Not in every decade comes to men
the opportunity of defending British rights and British freedom. Not to every

e man has come the responsibility of choosing between the pen and the sword. All

these, however, have come to the man of today, ‘‘the heir of all the ages.’
satiny. SATE. read and dream of the great heroes of British history, men who were
ae gacafice their lives if need be for a great principle. We revel in the
0 -when chivalry reigned supreme and men took hardknocks

To oO imitate these men were aspirations of our boyhood,
alized. | Weneed dream no longer, the day of war
yurs is ! e golden, opportunity ‘to fight for our

e mot nN * seeds inspired | the men of pl to go

16s:
turn ‘* Sets shogkesperd into a nation of riers Iti is our
ur iden Oe throw down all selfish. chance of advancement and take up the
vord 0 f Justice. The student must leave his books, the professional man his
profession, the , merchant his business andsoon, in order that the danger which
ens t the very existence of our Empire may be forever averted.
ti “The call has now come to Dalhousians, more than ever before. The stupests and graduates of our college have not been backward in this great war as
: e roll of honor will show, but more of that manly breed is wanted. Their
he ‘. nepuntiy is calling them. Their brothers in France are aw aiting them; it is their
cee duty, their plain obligation to throw their studies to the four winds of Heaven

~ and be up and at the foe.”

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
      
     
     
  
   
   
    
  
    
 
   
 

pe eet - bo

a oe +l 4 Bs - ae tc sect “h :
oe ae OME”, Bg ee : ae 5 ile me ae
4 4 a - .

i
ca a

ge

The same issue carried three full page advertisements exhorting
the student reader to enlist with the 219th Battalion. One of these
appears worthy of quotation at this juncture. The following ap
peared in hates block type:
WHY

‘a Areiyel take the C. O. T. C. training if it is not to serve your
seas! Kin ng and Country?

We want you for

 

ea aa THE DALHOUSIE PLATOON
ett of the
Leama mes 219th Battalion
eS Highland Brigade.
P iene Se

Pine Hill Election
Results

Delta Gamma
_ Dance pee

   
    

- The third annual tea-dance in aid of

ua io ie A ‘the Community Chest was held on

_ Saturday, Nov. 18th, at Shirreff Hall

About one hundred couples were present, and the proceeds ($100) will great
‘ F : ly swell Dalhousie’s contrib ution to the
= Commbdanity Chest. |

ih aed was served from five until six—

Those elected in the recent Student
Council of Pine Hill Elections were,

Pope—Clarence Nicholson.
Cardinal—Bob Dove.
Bishop—Charlie Anderson,
Scribe—Paynter MacIntosh.
Deacons—Lloyd Marshall.
Fraser Nicholson.
Harold Marston.
Allister MaclIvor.
Allister Reid.
Laundry Clerks—Horace Hanson
,|and Don Archibald.
Storekeeper—Harold Marston.
Electrician—Ralph Hardwick.
Chairman ot Athletics—Gordon Darrach, —
Chairman of Store—Elias Andrews.
Chairman of Music—Howard Kennedy.
Chairman of Billiards—John Jarvie.
_ Chairman of Dramatice — Allister

— 7 ~ — = —- 7 a
05) P = il Loa “a ¥ by ~See yt? = eS eG ee s “ee : » ——
. Pi f 7 : ~
. f F F wae ara a Pe hy
y . eo. =. ot Fe? Pr :
wg re , a

Tes

ah ite was served by Mrs. a
a = Shia! McKeen, sei ‘Mason and Miss

| rs Er
Were ¢

arr.”

i

     
 
  

‘ ee crows
the oe night. This |

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

November 28rd. 1933

 

/|EXCH ANGES| The Innocent

Sheaf, Nov. 9; Varsity Nov. 7 & 8;
Gateway Nov. 3.

Sheaf.

Hockey enthusiasts of the University
of Saskatchewan are up in arms over a
recent decision of the. Saskatoon
Hockey Association, barring the University from entering a team in this
year’s league. Owing to the fact that
the Varsity team could play only two
games before the Xmas vacation and
then not again until January 3, the
Association officials decided too much
time would be lost and thus barred the
University team. The students of
Saskatchewan are not however sitting
back petrified with astonishment or
amazement but have rallied to the support of theirteam. What the outcome
will be—time will tell. In the opinion
of many, however, the episode has
struck a death-blow at hockey on the
Varsity campus.

Varsity.

University Dramatics is a topic of
interest on any college campus: Dalhousie has had her share of dramatic
discussions so now we hear rumblings
of unrest onthe Torontocantpus. Mr.
‘‘Inconsequence” through the medium
of his column in the Varisty, proceeded
to pan the Hart House Theatre Management with granimatical superfluity.
He accused the officials of a blatant
lack of interest in the students and of
using outside amateurs in the productions instead of selecting a cast from the
campus. Another point of interest to
Dal Glee Club officials is Mr. Inconsequence’s objection to the quality of the
plays produced. ‘The Hart House
Theatre is nothing to be ashamed of,
that is sure, but it is nothing to boast
of, and that it ought to be.’”’ No blistering defensive letters were forth-coming from the Officials in fact they stated, ‘‘the criticism levelled at the present policy of the Hart House Theatre
is largely justified.”

a

‘Gateway. eS

_ Dr, Henning recently returned from
Germany, aroused a stirring controversy by making a plea for Nazi sympathy, in his address before an audience
of University students at Alberta. He
referred to newspaper statements to
the effect that Germany is out for war
and he protested that Germany is completely disarmed, except for a standing
army of 200,000 men, lightly armed for
defence only, and that therefore could
not possibly be an aggressor. When
discussing the Hitler regime, Dr. Hennings stated, ‘‘it springs from below and
not from above; Hitler is dictator by
the choice of the people.” In short,
the speaker under a heavy barrage of
cross-questioning, spoke of a ‘‘New
Germany” to a keen group of students.

 

Student Supports
Gazette Critic

To The Voice of Many:

Like so “many imbued with the
crusading svirit of adolescent youth,
you are valiantly charging harmless
windmills... You have taken offense
where none was intended, and taken
praise as criticism. The Glee Club
show was good, and as such was written
up. It was also human; being human
it had faults, and these were written
up too. If you will go over carefully
the script at which you take umbrage,
you will see where you have erred,
Ear wiggling was used as a metaphor;
Marilyn Miller was not used as a comparison, and as for the Wedding Scene,
the fact that the local newspapers
thought it good alone condemns it.

We're glad though to find you so
shrewd as to learn the identity of the
critic—but come, be a sport, and let
us all in on your great big secret—and
as for the coffee, “Tiger” paid for it,
so blame him for the critic's absence,
not the show. The show wasn’t quite
as bad as that. In fact, as you said,
and as the ‘‘Gazette” said, the show
was a success,

Just a Friend of the Young.

——“_»>>-o

_ Student Choir practice in St. Andrew’s Church, Sunday 26th Nov., at
8.30 P. M.

Bystander

THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER

‘How dear to my heart are the scenes
of my childhood,

When fond recollection presents them
to view!

The canipus, the tuck shop, the Capitol
Theatre,

And ey’ry loved spot which my college
days knew:

The wide-spreading debts, and the bills
that came monthly,

The rooms at the dances—oh what can
they tell?

The cheque from my father, the giri
it was spent on,

And e’en the bum rum the bootleggers
seil.

The red-coloured rum, the beer-bottled
rum,

The slummy-topped rum the bootleggers sell.

Quaint terms and phrases of other
days (found by the Geology class engraven on a laccolith.)

Currency- medium of exchange, universally possessed, sometimes called

Money: bits of paper and metal
which people formerly carried in their
trouser pockets, and frequently gave
asa

Loan: something made by a bank
president to himself, the directors, or
to his immediate family as

Ready Cash: which like a car anda
chicken in every pot everyone had,
which gave rise to

Prosperity: an intangible, mythological state of being, which like the rainbow in the sky and the cheque from
home was always just around the corner.

Trend of the times note- The wolf
at the door is now inside taking pot
luck with the family.

If the Glee Club supporters had put

-|their vitriolic energy, humour, and ac
tion into the show instead of into writing there wouldn’t have been anything
for them to write about—but it just
shows what they can do when they
really try.

Having tried to make money with
the R. F. C. and the N. R. A. the U.
S. A. is now trying the U. S. S. R.
Let’s hope something turns up before
they exhaust the alphabet. The Bear
That Walks Like a Man will walk like
acrippleand carry atin cup, if we know
our United States. With the wolf at
one door, the Bear at another, lambs
and bulls raising cain in Wall Street,
and the government playing ducks
and drakes with the money,the U. S.
is rapidly turning into a sportsman’s
paradise.

 

Co-eds Column

TIDBITS FROM HERE AND
THERE.

Basketball is in swing again, and is
Charlie Anderson enjoying it. Turn
out girls and get a thrill,

Did the girlsturn out en masse to the
tea-dance to see how the girls affections
were swinging. Leave it to the Meds.
to use a little strategy at such a time.

Alpha Gamma Delta Fraternity held
an informal party for their initiates
directly after the Delta Gamma teadance.

Our scandal-monger was at the tea
dance. We were all watching you,
Bord.

We notice that some of the Shirreff
Hall girls are good ladder climbers.

'FOw.

Pine Hill Notes |Knocker’s Corner

A lot of people havea mistaken idea
about the effect that Pine Hill has on
those who choose to live there. They
think that the hallowed walls of the
institution (Sorry Mr. Kaulbach) tend
to give a sanctified outlook on life to
those who do not have one when they
enter, or increase the divinity of those
who are fortunate enough to be ‘‘called.”” In other words, all Pine Hillers
are strong in resisting temptation, never swerving from the straight and narThey enter with certain ideals
which grow higher and higher as the
years pass until the doors of the sacred
shrine close behind them forever. To
use a rather delightfully quizzical expression that has, unfortunately, been
rather misused in the last year or so,
“Oh Yeah?”

Let me tell a story to justify the ejaculation:

Here, within this hallowed atmosphere, dwell two Theologs. One
is a Cape Bretoner, the other is
from ‘‘the’’ Island. Both are strong,
upright and sincere, never yielding to
temptation and cherishing the highest
ideals. But they are slipping.

Two years in Pine Hill were too much
for the Cape Bretoner. He was seen
smoking this year, and last week he had
his first date. The pale-blushing Dawn
is intelligent, too. ‘Why?’ you ask.
Because he is well-read, of course. His
definition of an osculation is ‘‘an anatomical juxtaposition of two orbicular
muscles in a state of contraction.’’
What won’t he know after his second
date?

But two years in Pine Hill have affected the Islander even more. True,
he hasn’t started smoking yet, but itis
reported that he spent the week-end
with his two-girl-friends—one a widow
and the other a divorcee! That’s
enough to makeanybody smoke!

The scribe refuses to take any responsibility as to the validity of these
statements—he lets other people do his
Winchelling for him, and agrees that all
columnists should be shot. But you
have asked for scandal— and that’s
what you're getting.

Siar anan

NOTICE.

English 16 (English Novel since
1800) will be offered during the session
of 1934-35. Of the 40 or more novels
read in this course, students are required to have read from 15 to 30 before enrolment. The long vacation
would seem to be the ideal time for
this preliminary reading, but unfortunately many of the novels are not easily
accessible outside the larger centres of
population. Accordingly, copies of all
the novels, required in this course, may
be found on a reserved shelf in the
Reading Room of King’s College; these
may be borrowed on application at the
Desk. It is suggested that students
who contemplate enrolling in English
16 might well use some of these novels
for recreational reading during the
present session.

SECOND TEAMS
OLD GYMN FOUNDATION
THE -D. Gy “Fr”

Probably the most thankless job in this
University is that of the athlete who
is not good enough to make the first
team but who regularly turns out for
the second. These players, whose
only hope is of advancing in the future,
take all the bumps and get nothing in
return, yet their presence is essential to
give the first team necessary practice.
A good example of this working for
practically no recognition is the second
football team, they being passed by
when the seniors get gold and felt ‘‘D’s.”’
Why could there not be some arrangement that they get, perhaps,a felt ‘‘D”
witha “‘2”’ in the background, or some-,
thing similar?

How much longer is the campus to be
disfigured by the old gym foundation
and its ugly wire fence? This substructure must be suitable for some
purpose: why not loan it to the C. O.
T.C.for them to play at war? They
have some pretty, shiny rifles in the
basement of the Arts building and they
could use the barbed wire entanglements on this structure for manoeuvres
—just picture Lieutenant....... preparing for the attack at zerohour. Or
else build a pink fence around it where
the D. G. (Dear Girls) can have their
little tea parties.

Once more the Delta Gamma, or
“Dear Girls,”’ call them what you like,
showed how the female element ot our
university can function in organized
form. Last week the writer of this
column lamented that although the
women students have various organiztions, they failto makea success of their
undertakings, . Saturday’s tea dance
was a fine example. The place chosen
for the dance was unsuitable, the floor
being uneven, and the area far too small
for the number present. Seating accomodation was poor, many being compelled to stand, or to choose between
cold stone stairs and hot uncomfortable
radiators. The food was palatable and
little mere. This might be expected
since the Hall is renowned for its poor
cuisine, but one would think that on
the few occasions when the ‘‘Dear
Girls” entertain, some improvement
might be attempted. The music was
good—the one redeeming feature at a
poorly organized party.

—
NOTICE.
The funeral ot the Pine Hill Corres
pondent to the Gazette will take place
on Sunday. No flowers by request.

 

where the college men congregate

 

Check Over Your
Winter Needs - - 
Here’ s a few reminders of articles necessary toa

man’s winter comfort—

a new overcoat
a suit

spats

or a new Tuxedo

gloves
underwear
wool hose

All of these articles can now be purchased at
prices much lower than ever before—but cost
of production is on the upgrade so—

BUY IN 1933 and save money

Shane’s Mens Wear

   

30 spring SHOP caraen road

 

 

discount of 10% allowed to Dal students

 

  

 

 

 
” a s Ve Pee
: = ‘ é wa r e

ee te a err ct nn

- as : - ae oe

> } 
Ph i,

.

 

:
as:

   

DALHOUSIE%GAZETTE

|Su ggests Rink On| Official Report

 

Page Three

RR ENS EE I" GE 15 ROR,

  
 
  
  
  
  
     

_ Why is submission to the courses of
| Latin required of the student of Daleye 5 . _|housie proceeding to the degree of
ate & _ | Bachelor of Arts? Among other reaBaer +” ‘ sons given is this; that Latin is uniquePe a 6a8 it came to pass that there ly fitted to develop correct mental at__ arose in the Land uf Dal a Skribbler,] titudes, and habits. This disciplinary
yea a kreetik of drahama and he said objective brings in the question of
| Be orth his breast how may I show the | transfer of training. Does mental efa : eS inhabitants my witand humour. Then | ficiency gained in the study of Latin
f pi it came to his ears. that the Frosh, the become generalized and operative in
ee _ newcomers were planning a showing for | other studies and activities, and if so
_ the citizens and the Skribbler quoth to what extent? A. N. Whitehead, has
gee unto himself, forsooth this is my big] his ideas on the subject, although ex_ ae ‘moment and he hied himself unto the perimental evidence to support them is
coy coffee houses of Dal and from there lacking. He says; “‘if in after life your
; a s panned the Frosh for their efforts in job is to think, render thanks to Provi_ the geem. Verily, it was a wonderful | dence which ordained that, for five
=! - panning and much enthusiasm for Glee | years of your youth you did a Latin
4: Kloob work has been aroused and men prose, once a week, and daily construed
and women will now readily forsake} some Latin author.” E. L. Thorndike
| their daily tasks to work on showings | has carried on probably the most reand then await the discerning criticism | liable and scientific investigation into
of the panner. the problem of transfer. His results
2. And it also came to pass on a|4re in pronounced opposition to the
certain day that a strange sound eas traditional view that mathematics and
y heard in the Forrest, a most unusual Latin, train pupils to think better than
noise resembling the rolling o: the wat- | 22Y other branches of the curriculum.
_erfalls, and the denizens looked at one Bookkeeping and science showed s
‘another in wonderment and fear. For | tater effect on the growth of intellithe sound penetrated to the haunters gence as measured by the standards of
ot the Law libe and to them that sit the test, but in any case the amount of
> é under Ronyeld of Haze in the Byeows transter was insignificant. In summing
F and also to the men and wonien that | UP the findings Thorndike reaches the
work under,the light-torches in the do- following conclusions.
main of Yoohee, the Captain, and all The chief reason why good thinkers

asked when cometh this strange sound? superficially to have been made such
. , by having taken up certain school

studies; is that good thinkers have taken such studies, becoming better by
the inherent tendency of the good to
to gain more than the poor from any
study—lIf£ able pupils should ail study
Physical Education and Dramatic Art
these subjects would make good thinkers. These were indeed, a large function of the prograi of the best thinkers
that the world ever produced the Athenian Greeks.”

The Classical Investigation, list some
of the mental habits that Latin may
increase or strengthen. They are as
follows: ‘‘sustained attention, orderly
procedure, overcoming obstacles, pere | severance, ideals of achievement, accuracy and thoroughness, and the culat __,|tivation of certain general attitudes

‘ies pice . te ther such as. dissatisfaction with tailure and

tries, ve a trom Akadi-Yah an:
the land that lies over the mountin-tops of Zakvil and from the land

       
      

 

        
       
  
     
       
     
       
       
     
    

      

a
as

  

we

      
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
    
       
       
     
     
 
      
     
        
         
    

 

ie ot
ae “
’ a

8. And a voice was heard saying,
fear not o people of the Forrest; tis
not some strange being that has come
here, but the laughter of Hurbee surnamed Ztoowart who at this moment

_ is speaking unto the Pub-leek Speaking
society and he is relating to them but
, _ Another of the anecdotes of which he has
so great a store. Verily it was Hurbee
B the logician. | |
4. Whe in the land of Dal knoweth
not of Hurbee and the seelojeezm and
. the Deotish johex? For he isone of the
ES. five that made the land of Dal famous
Na of. beyond the seas, and the others were
i aa: een Avoce! and i the

eae

  

si

        
         
       
       
   
       
       
       
  
 
 
   
     

  

  
      
   
     
     
     
        

a well-known classicist, declares that
the essential conditions for developing
the desirable habits and attitudes just
| enumerated is an ‘‘uncompromising insistence upon absolute mastery of material.” A forty percent passing minimum does not indicate an insistence on
anything approaching absolute mastery
of material. But even without assuming that Professor Gray is right, it is
obvious that correct habits cannot be
transferred from the study of Latin unless they are developed within the subject in the first place. Ask Professor

ait met in rach and dwelt on great
problems and giant issues. And the

- woman orator, Magfayell who belong_ . eth to the new Ko-Ko-Fed partee was
‘there also and spoke to the delegates
_ of statesmen.

            
              
     
     
     
     
   
 
         
      
     
     
   
     
       
        
       
     
   

6. And the time has arrived when
one must relate the political fortunes
in the land, of the Toryeez and Leeberals and the great benefits of the Benyet
- Kloob, yea verily, its many virtues,

acterized by accuracy, thoroughness,

(To be continued.)

“B-r-r-r-r ! !
I But The Young
| “Hurrah !!

  

of them—

Cc. C. M. Nemo
C. C. M. Cyco
Cc. C. M. Model D

    

$1.50.
2.50.
6.00.

G.C.M:
C. C. M:

   

, to $6.50.

  

including Sticks, Pucks, Nets, Uniforms, Etc.

partial success,’ ee Mason DeWitt Gray

The Old Folks Say
It’s Cold”

? , its ee
It’s Skating Time
So come along to PHINNEYS and get your skating or hockey outst now.

will find at PHINNEYS a complete line of C.C. M. and Starr Skates.

C. C. M. Extra

Also a fine range of Skating Boots for men and ladies.

Get our prices on Complete Outfits for your Hockey Team

Old Gym Site

Nov. 20,1933

™

Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:—

The recent cold snap has brought the.
subject to hockey to the fore asa _ subject of conversation on the campus.
Naturally, the question arises, what
kind of a team will Dalhousie have this
winter? Withall respect to those who
have labored mightily in the face of
student apathy to build up strong
teams during the last several seasons it
must be admitted that the record of
the University has been rather barren
and forlorn.

. Why? Numerous reasons have been
advanced—ot late years the cry has
been vague charges of favoritism and
fraternalism. But the thing goes deeper than that. An examination of conditions at the University in the robust
post war years when Dalhousie teams
swept all before them discloses a significant fact—the Student Council maintained an open air rink on the campus.

Possibly the senior members of the
professional schools may recall the last
unfortunate experience with an outdoor rink in a year of extreme mildness.
Nevertheless the rink was operated to
the benefit of both the student body
and the team and it is the hope of the
writer that the D. A. A. C. will justify
its questionable existence by investigating the possibilities of re-establishing it.

Engineering students have advanced
the idea of utilizing the site of the old
gym asa rink by covering the top of
the foundation and erecting boards.
it may be feasible but some will say it
is much too small. Perhaps, but it is
significant that St. Mary’s College with
an undersized ice surface has consistently produced teams that have been
the despair ot her numerically superior
but athletically puerile neighbor.
Thanking you Mr. Editor for your indulgence in allowing me to take up so
much space. I am yours for better
hockey at Dalhousie.

“OLD TIMER.”

 

ideals of achievement. The very fact
that Latin is compulsory militates
against the development of correct
mental habits. Everything is against
the attitude of mind favorable to the
objective in view. The student is not
convinced oi the value of Latin tor himself and therefore has no ambition for
achievement in it. Hence, lacking
zest and the spirit of self-direction, the
normal reaction is slip-shod methods
of translation, the excessive use of keys
memorization of translation, and questionable methods of obtaining marks.
Such behaviour could hardly be recommended as a means for forming
correct mental habits and worthy attitudes. We have yet to discover any

Nichols or Professor Pearson if the av-: unique value accruing from the study
erage students work in Latin is char- of Latin that warrants its being a re
quired subject in the Dalhousie Arts

dissatisfaction with partial success, and | cyrriculum.

  

Folks Say

You

Here are some

$ 5.00
Special 7.50
Prolite 10.50.

Prices are from $2.75

Council Meet

vi Nee 5th, 1933.

The Council of the Students met in
tle Munro Room at 2.45 p. m. on the
above date with the President in the
chair. K.W. MacKenzie was appointed Secretary pro tem in the absence of
M. M. Rankin.

The minutes of the last meeting
were read and approved on motion of
Mr. Stewart, seconded by Mr. Stanfield.

A report from the joint committee
of the Council and D. A. A. C. was
brought up by Mr. Wigmore, in the
absence of Mr. Oxley and Mr. Richardson. He stated that the committee
to investigate Athletic mntters at
Dalhousie had functioned, and stated
their views, but that the committee
had not finished its work and was to
meet again. The ntatter was deferred
until a final report should be available.

Budgets for Badminton and Scccer

were referred to the Finance Com-|_

mittee, minus requested appropriations
for trips.

Basketball and Interfaculty budgets
were approved for submission to the
Finance Committee.

The proposed Glee Club Constitution
was considered in detail and amended
as follows:

Article 6, Section 4:

The Council agreed to change this
section as follows:

“On the required date, the Presiden
will present in person a budget of
probable expenses for the ensuing year,
to the Council of the Students.”

Article 9A, Section 3:

Referred for Legal Interpretation.

Article 9B, Section 2:

The Council agreed to change this
Section to read as:

“The Executive shall meet when
called upon to do so by the chairman
Or a majority of the Executive. Five
mémbers shall constitute a quorum
of the Executive.”

Article 9B, Section 3:

The Council agreed to change this
Section to read as:

‘*The Executive shall have authority
to decide what productions are to be
presented by the Society, and to decide
the exact dates on which production
shall be presented, subject to the
approval of the Council of the Students.”

Article 9B, Section 4:

The Council suggested that the
following be added at the end of the
Section:

dates for each position.”’

The Council agreed that another | student who took out the magazine from
Student Forum be held to discuss|the reception room at the Hall.

“If Dalhousie Students shall fight in | became tired of reading this same maga
the Next War,’ this topic being suggested by some of the students.
The meeting adjourned at 5.45 p, m..

M. M. RANKIN,
Sec. Treas,

BIRKS=

Fraternity and Sorority Members may often make substan
tial savings on guards for their

pins by buying them from Birks.

Prices submitted without ob
ligation.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

   

LIMITED

Wholesale
Tea

Grocers

Merchants

HALIFAX, CANADA

 

JOHN TOBIN & Co. Dalhousie University

 

OH
The pick of the World’s
Tobacco crops assures you
of a mild and matchless
flavour when you Smoke

these famous cigarettes’

Winchester

CIGARETTES
Blended Right!

 

SAVE THE
POKER HANDS

 

 

As Others See Us

Campus Comment

Here is a letter, written by a fresh-}| One Western student who was at

ette, which speaks for itself, Dalhousie Law School last year carried

away with him definite impressions of

Dear Campus Joe:— Dalhousie and the Maritime Provinces.

Apropos of this, the following taken

I have read your column with a cer-|from the Alberta University publication is printed below:

Richard Burns has returned to the
Campus after a year’s absence at
Dalhousie university where he pursued
his studies in law.

Atter adroit questioning, a few
details regarding his impressions of
Dalhousie as compared with Alberta
university were elicited,

“The fellows down there take their
work much more seriously,” he observed, This is said to be due to their
predominantly Scotch ancestry,” Dick
is Irish—‘‘and they want all they can
have for their fees. This naturally
results in a higher standard of scholarship. I was struck by the fact that
there was less talk of hard times down
there, due I think to the absence of wild
speculation such as we experienced in
the west and to their more settled
wealth. They are very hospitable,
though less free and easy in their contacts than western people. They think
the west is still the land ot opportunity
and I think we might expect a considerable influx of young people from
the maritimes when times grow better.’

“Initiation was abolished at Dal
housie last year,” he replied, in answer
to further questioning. ‘It was due
largely to the influences of the local
press. Ccllege spirit is more in evidence there than here, by reason of the
close proximity of five colleges.”

“Yes,”’ he concluded with a smile,
“they thought I was an €x-cOwpunch
”

er,

tain amount of delight dur ing the past
few weeks. Iam surprised of course to
find that you can dig up so much information that is-really clean. How
you doit I would really liketo know. I
have had quite a few experiences myself since I came here, but you couldn’t
use them in your column so I feel fairly
safe. I would like you to answer a
few questions that have been on my
mind for some time. (1) My _ boy
friend offered me his boy scout pin,
Should I take it? The answer
is obvious. Take the boy scout pin
because their motto is doing a good deed
every day. You might’nt have to
study anymore this year.

(2) How many boys come to the
hall Sunday night for a date and not
for lunch? Answer: They all come
for a date except Bob McLellan, John
Proctor, Gordon Silver, George Teed
Richard Lynch, Charlie Lorway, Bob
Scott, Joe Connolly, the freshmen class
the engineers, David Allen and Pearl’s
boy friend (I don’t know his name).

(3)

college graduates are women?

What percentage of the married
The

Then there’s the Bie about the
He
zine every night and he says the only

reason he took it was that maybe they
would buy another.

 

 

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

Biology Club

DRUGGIST

The first meeting of the Biology
Club for this year will be held in the
Biology Lecture Room, Forrest Building on Thursday, Noy. 28. Dr. J. S.
Bagnall will talk on ‘‘The Connection
of the Dental and Biological Sciences.”
Everyone is cordially invited.

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

 

 

LS

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
sevice Bu 1376

9 ®
Service It s time to con25c. Rate to Students

sider that new

 

   

coat

The latest models are at new

Store

he¥
we

LUNCH

WITH US

prices ranging from

19.50 to 34.50

As a style tip the favorite cam
pus colors this season are Greys

TO-DAY

WE SERVE A GOOD ONE
FOR

and Browns.

WINTERS BROS. LTD.

391 BARRINGTON ST.
Special Students Discount 10%

20c.

 

 
   

   

 

TEAM W

| Hockey Squad

*
. .

  
  

Herbie Grant manager of the Dal
Hockey Team has started P. T. Classes
for the hockey squad under the direction of Mr. Stirling. These classes are
held in the Gym. every Tues., Thurs. &
Sat. at 12 o’clock, and should be made
use of by the squad as hockey will not
start till after Christmas.

Looking over the freshmen class for
material we find ‘‘Sandy’’ McPherson
of Regina, Roger Rowley of Ottawa,
Leo Simmonds of Halifax, Eddie Cohn
of Halifax and many more. All these
boys have been playing either junior
or high-school hockey and should make
good material.

Among the other students we find
Jack Buckley ex-Acadia, Dal & Loyola
star, Jim Crosby of Rothesay and a
large number of St. F. X. boys who are
an the Law School. There are also quite
a few interfaculty players who will try
to make the grade.

Most of last year’s team are back
with the exception of the goalie Ken
Purtill and Max Brennan. The question of a goalie is a bothersome oneand
of there are any who have played as
goalie they are especially invited to
turn out. ®&,

Dal looks good for the championship
this year. Practice hours have already
been secured at the Forum, transportation{ facilities etc., looked after and all
that is wanted isa big turn-out.

   
  
     
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
  
      

ae a. ae
eo ee Caledonia played great rugby on
eS - Saturday. They completely outplayed
the Wanderers in every department of
game. The wing three-quarters were

Zs exceptionally fast, tricky and had lots
pe" of scoring punch. The forwards fol
lowed up to perfection, heeled the ball
in fine style and controlled the ball
wonderfully when dribbling.

 

   
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

_-—s-« Gaturday’s display is the kind of
rugby that is both pleasing to players
_ andspectators. Many of the Dal boys
were remarking ‘if Dal only hada team
— fikethat.’’ So faras the writer can see
the only thing lacking is “‘pep’’ among
ce the! players because} we certainly have
the material and the coach.

oe Innumerable people have asked for
my selection of an all-star rugby team

Rs - (City League) so here goes— Tedford
(A) full-back; Fountain (A), Buckley
- (D), Ralston (D), Ross (U) three
quarters; Young (W), Oxley (W) halves
-. Noble (U), Sanford (A), Goldie, (W),

Murray (D), Johnson (W), Porter (A),
Spencer (U),!McSween,(D) (wing-forward), forwards.

 

 

Congratulations are due the Law
boys on winning the Interfaculty Rugby Championship. The team worked
y? __-well to-gether and were always on the
fs ik ball. The Engin-Dents tried hard and
_-_——s were only defeated after a hard strug
< gle.

League Starts

The Basketball House League got
away to a good start last week, eight
games being played. There are eight
teams entered in the league—about 70
players. Manager Don Stewart and
Coach Jack Thomas are supervising
the show and are spotting material for
the Varsity squad.

On Nov. 14, four games were played,
Ted Crease defeating Don Bauld 17
to 10, Bord Stoddard nosing out Doug
Crease 11-9 (overtime), Ken Sullivan
downing Mil Musgrave 82 to 20, and
Sam Rosner beating Bob Weitz 24 to
16.

After the smoke cleared on Nov. 16,
Ken Sullivan and Ted Crease were tied
for the lead with two wins Stoddard,
D. Crease, Bauld and Rosner had a
win andaloss, and Musgraveand Weitz
had dropped two straight.

Results Nov. 16.
Bauld 17— Weitz, 16.
Doug Crease 17— Musgrave 6.

; ag.

Mac " was greatly pleased

; i with the
of Saturday’s Game.

i war 9
~ ee
Lie

:

The Gym. is showing alittle activity
aut _ now with house league basketball, soft, or balland girls’ basketball.
9 se | Charlie Anderson is coaching the
__—_—__ girls squad and can use that o Id saying
“am YT making niyself clear?’’ to per
pa os fection.

 
      
     

         
     
     
       
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
     
  
  
 
   

  

   

i ri
‘ Ph a

“Tiger” claims the Artsmen let him
down or ‘“‘done him wrong” bynot turn‘ing out for football.

wet “‘Red’”’ Pain has acquired a new cap Sullivan 23—Rosner 17.
_ and Red wants it understood thatitis] Ted Crease 36—Stoddard 6.
| -—s to. be used only as a head-gear.

Each team has five more games to
play before a winner is declared

 

05

Each

$

 

Swagger

 

Géaionia Felt Hats

Of soft, rich fur felt; fine finish and
trimming details, and smart style.
Shown in the newest shades to wear
with your winter overcoat. Snap
brim, welt and bound edges.

Sizes 63 to 73

EATON'S Main Floor

| &T.EATONCO

MARITIMES LIMITED

 

thet ge 8
ae a

  

INS INTERFACULTY FOOTBALL TITLE

Inter - Faculty

Starts Training Softball Play

Away to Start

The Interfaculty Softball League got
underway last week with five games
being played. Quite a few of the players were out of practice and handicapped by playing for the first time indoors.
Nevertheless some good ball was dished up.

In the opener the ‘‘Frosh’’ took a
surprising victory from the Theologs.
The score of 12-11 indicates how close
the play was. Charlie Anderson pitched fine ball tor the Pine-Hillers while
Bill Gladstone threw up some nice ones
for the ‘‘frosh.”’

Arts and Science easily defeated Commerce 35-3 inthe second game. Harry
Gaum pitched fine ball for the Artsmen
Bord Stoddard and Don Bauld moundsmen for the Millionaires were hit at
will. Gaum. by the way had 13 strikeouts to his credit. The hign-light of
the game was Jimmy MacIntosh’s sensational elbow-shoulder wrist catch.

Law defeated ‘‘Frosh’’ 25-14 on
Thursday evening. Roy MacDonald
pitched fine ball for the barristers and
was backed up by good teamwork.
The ‘‘frosh’’ were very unsteady and
had quite a few errors to their credit.

In the best game of the week Arts
defeated Medicine 7-5. Fine pitching
was produced, Gaum again having 13
strike-outs to his credit while Fraser

Young for Med. retired many via the

Basketball House ee route.

n the last game of the week the
Theologs defeated Engineers 28-1.
The Theologs played fine ball and supported their pitcher. The boilermakers
were away off being weak with the willow and showed a general lack of practice.

 

Caledonia Tigers
Win McCardy
Cup

—

Bringing to Halifax the smoothest
working and fastest rugby machine
seen here in recent years, the Caledonia
Tigers,Cape Breton champions, swamped the Halifax Wanderers in the semifinal game for the McCurdy Cup iast
Saturday at the Wanderers field bv a
score of 23 to 4. The Cape Bretoners
showed superiority in every department of the game, and the play was as
one-sided as the score, the game being
played for practicaily the whole time
in Wanderers territory.

The Caledonia team, by the default
of Mount Allison, New Brunswick
champions, win the McCurdy Cup for
the second year in succession. The
Ca pe Breton team isa product of John
McCarthy, Dal coach, who before coming here, coached the Caledonia team
for the past several seasons. Needless
to say ‘‘Mac’’ was overjoyed at the result of the Caledonia-Wanderers game.

These games are played every Tuesday
and Thursday at noon. The line-up
are posted on the bulletin boards in the
Arts building and gymnasium.

 

—_—— -—
NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

   

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per Ib
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.

  
       
       
       
   

Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough
for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300 |
Halifax Steam Laundry

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dent-Engineers

Blank Meds 11-0

A combined team of Dental-Engintrimmed Medicine 11-0 at Studley on
Thursday and won the right to meet
Law in the championship final. The
victory came as a surprise as Medicine
were predicted to cop the title.

The Dental-Engin. had a wide margin in play but their victory was largely
due to the work of Woods, speedy
speedy backfield man. In the first

F November 28rd, 1988

Lawyers Defeat Engin-Dents
In Final Game By 6-3 Score

Law Team Wins Interfaculty Championship
Engineers-Dents Put Up Game Battle--.
McDonald Stars

 

Last Saturday, on a snow-covered | most immediately Lou Petrie, diminu
field, and with cold weather to add to
their discomfort, the Lawyers won a
well-earned victory over the combined

period Woods scored a try witha pretty | faculties of Engineering and Dentistry
run. The kick for goal was successful to cop the Interfaculty Rugby League

making the score 5-0.

Football title. Law was evidently

In the second period Woods went] overconfident but when the Engine
over the iine for two tries bu t the kicks
for goal both failed. The Engin-Dents
backfield, made some lovely gains and
only the fine defensive work by Medicine saved further scoring.

Big Jim MacLeod, Colman in addition to Woods played great rugby,
while for Medicine, Fairstein, Kribs
and Young were the pick. John McCarthy handled the
whistle.

senior coach

Fine Prospects For

Basketball Team

It looks like a big year for Dalhousie

 

basketball if the interest shown in th2’

House League is any indication. Seventy studes want to play basketball,
besides those who can’t play until after
Christmas due to studies.

We have the finest court east of
Montreal and the best coach available.
Coach Jack Thomas is to start his first
yearat Dalhousie. Forseveralseasons
back he has been coaching the Wanderers, traditional rivals of the Tigers,
and has led them to several championsships including the Canadian Intermediate title. Mlaybe he will do the
same for the Bengals.

Asfor players, Bauld, Fairstein, Musgrave, Mandelstan, Stoddard, the
Crease brothers, Lorway, Sullivan,
Green, MacDonald, Thompson, Gaum,
Duhilier, Richardson, and others of
last year’s Varsity and Intermediate
squads are rarin ‘to go, while among the
newcomers are Bill Gladstone, Foster
Simmonds, all freshmen, Bernie Ralston, former Acadia court star, and Cy
Miller of Lehigh University. Gladstone is 6ft. 5in.,a capable ball handler
a good shot, and looks like a sure bet
for centre. There are many who have
not yet made themselves known but,
believe you me, the boys who nab the
berths this year have got to be hot!
stuff.

The Seniors were runners-up in the
City League last year while the Cubs
romped through the City League, took
the provincial senti-finajs from Acadia
by one point in a two-game series, but
lost the Nova Scotia title by dropping
the last of a two game series after winning the first from Sydney. Ili Jack
Thomas can whip these boys into shape
and show them sonte more basketball
(and he can!) then the Tigers will be
champs in the spring.

 

Try SCARFES better
service on Sharpening
When your soles wear
through we can repair

them like new

THOS. SCARFE

50 COBURG RD.

“Of course we played at
the LAW DANCE proving
once again that NAUGLERS
is thC best orchesta in
town.

CALL JERRY L9238

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS
Small Musical Instruments,

Victor Records, Refrigerators
We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

Latest Magazines and Sheet
Music

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington Street

 

   
    
     

Dents tied up the score they settled
down to play real rugger and showed a
decided superiority over their ooponents. Despite the fact that the ground
was hard and uncomfortable and the
footing treacherous the boys put on an
excellent exhibition of slam-bang rugger, featured by loose but spirited
dribbling and frequent backfield runs,
two of which resulted in scores. The

jfew spectators were well rewarded for

their well rewarded for their interest
for they saw a highly improved brand
of Interfaculty rugby, due chiefly to
the efforts of John McCarthy.

LAW TAKES EARLY LEAD.

MacDonald of Law kicked off and

the Engineers-Dents fumbled nenr
their goal line causing a scrum. The

Engin-Dents cleared time after time
only to have the Lawyers press back
and after five minutes of this, the Law
scrum hooked the ball to Khattar who
passed to MacDonald to Hinchey to
Prendergast who raced about 20 yards
to cross the line in the far corner with
two tacklers and the corner post on top
ofline. The kick for goal failed. After this Law seemed to slow up, for the
Engin-Dents pressed hard for a score
until the end of the period. Ball missed a shot at goal on a penalty kick
from thirty yards out. The Law goal
was threatened several times, but
Hadson, Law fullback cleared nicely
with accurately placed kicks.

PETRIE AND MANNING SCORE.

The Engin-Dents kicked-off and followed up well with the result that al
—

 

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for com
 

plete Suit or Overcoat.

 

 

 

tive scrum-half, fell on a loose ball by
the postsforthe tying score. The kick
for goal failed. Law started to settle
down and pushed their opponents back
to their goal line. For the remainder
of the period the play was in EnginDent’sterritory. With fifteen minutes
to go Charlie Manning, speedly Law
wing three-quarters, kicked the ball
over the Engin-Dents goal line and raced after to land on it with a headlong
dive for the score that clinched the
game and title. The Engin-Dents
fought hard but could not break away
and the period ended 6-3 for Law.

Roy MacDonald Law outside-half,
while not up to his usual Standard,
nevertheless was the best player on
the field, his accurate punting and
brainy field generalship being a big
factor in the win. Mike Hinchey’s
ball carrying and Gordon Prendergast’s
hard tackling made them invaluable to
the smooth backfield. Boyd
MacGillvary was the pick of the Law
gorwards while Hanson played a good
gameatfull. Forthe Engineers-Dents
Elmer Ball and Walter Woods of the
backfield, and Hannaford of the forwards were outstanding. Both Ball
and Woods made several sensational
runs. Law is fortunate in having as
manager, Neil Ferguson, whose untiring efforts. to get a team together
and ir shape have brought victory to
Law.

Law

 

FRIDAY SATURDAY
JEAN HARLOW
LEE TRACY
ce

‘“‘BOMBSHELL?”’

~ ‘ey 
    

RUBY KEELER

DICK POWELL
JOAN BLONDELL
JAMES CAGNEY

Ore eek tr

“FOOTLIGHT
PARADE?”

COM. MON. TUES. WED. THUR.

 

 

 

GARRICK]|/ CASINO

FRI. SAT.
JANET GAYNOR
WARNER BAXTER

in

“Paddy the Next
Best Thing’’

MON. TUES.
Secret of Madame

Blanche

Starring

Irene Dunn
Lionel Atwill
Philip Holmes

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

SPORTING GOODS

|
For Fall and Winter .
Football, Badminton, Hockey,

Or ‘‘What Have You?’’

We have the preferred lines of
equipment for every sport

COME AND LOOK ’EM OVER

wR CR AGGSwae

BARRINGTON at GEORGE
Telephone B-6226

 

SATURDAY—MONDAY
TUESDAY
November, 25-27-28
INIMITABLE

GRACIE
FIELDS

ENGLAND'S Top-ranking

Comedienne.

This Week Of

Grace

Halifax Transfer

PHONE B.7138

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

 

 

 

 

sa

——

——
