   
 
    
  

ra
- “#

“
=
hs

 

| 4

bes
i

ee
eo

ie
ie

Ee

a

ay

—

  
   
   
   
 
 

a
»

 

 

: ‘
;
44
ey

;
fe

a

% ; Os
.

eA

'

ARhigen = & Ee
> ay :
v=

4
2. oe

alee

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 11th, 1934.

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

 

 

- > | Successful

~ Conference

px 
The S. C. M. has found its true vocation
Tti is poisoning the student mind,

“Its leaders, by astute manipulation
Are all poisoning the student mind.

vas And you, young friends, I’m certain

you'll go
To toast your toes at furnaces below
If you give ear to leaders wlio, I know
5 Are bent on poisoning the student
are bent on poisoning the student mind.

Poisoning the student mind, poisoning

the student mind,

- And men, bold men, villains doubledyed,

‘Neath their smiling countenances hide,

Spiritual arsenic, moral eganide,

For poisoning the student, poisoning
the student,

Poisoning the student mind.

There’s just one thing that I forgot to
mention,
The student hasn’t got a mind.
And so its safe to hold this big convenin tion,

ee Because the student hasn’t got a mind.
pF But, if our leaders heard the awful news

ta | There is no doubt their senses ey
would lose,

‘they're. poisoning * sa student
oO ng Pee sriatitestiy the Student

ey popular fat. the Maritime con: ference of the S.C. M. held at Pine Hill

ae Slow Dec. 28 to Jan. 3. About thirty-,
r five students attended, Acadia, Mt. A.
tae U.N. B. Kings, P. W. C. and Dal be
ing ably represented. Dr. Rose of
Acadia, Rev. W. S. Godfrey of Mount
Allison, and Prof. L.' W. Shaw of P. W.

CC. accompanied the delegation and
took part in various features of the programe.

Dean Carrington of Bishop’s College,
Lennoxville, Quebec, was the outstanding speaker at the conterence and presented three addresses fcllowed by discussion periods. Arter those he was
cornered and pestered with more ques
_ tions. Said one delegate: ‘‘We have
omly asked him half of the questions
that we want to.”

Murray Brooks, General Secretary
of the S. C. M. of Canada led a number
of discussions on the purpose and the

_ program of the S. C. M. in the colleges,
* and the comparison of the work in the
colleges of the Maritimesto date andthe
new ideas gathered were most valuable.
Murray also led the conference singing.

Miss Margaret Kinney, travelling
secretary of the S. C. M. was present
and immediately after the conference
started on a tour of the Maritime colleges to aid in S. C. M. work. Miss

- Kinney made a valuable contribution
to the discussions and recreational
program of the conference and when

she goes to the colleges her advice will
be greatly in demand.

ee Prof. J. S. Thomson delivered two
very excellent addresses which were
| _ followed by discussion periods and Dr.
| met R. A. MacKay presented a very

apie s ‘thought-provoking address on the poli
i .

*. S "Ge

tical and economic side of the present
- would condition as related to the S.
Ms

Much of the success of the conference
was due to the secretarial work and ex
aoe ecutive ability ot Dr. G. S. Patterson,
" adi roe on page 4)

a: Pa ah lk a a

At Pine Hill

mile has only twice been bettered.

Bates College

Bates College, whose debating team
was here this week under N. F.C, U.S.
auspices, is a good example of the
“Little Yankee College’ so famoits in
American educational history. It is a
liberal arts college of about seven hundred students. Founded in 1864 by
Free Baptists, it is wholly unsectarian.
It is co-educational—the first college in
eastern United States to open its doors
to men and women on an equal basis.
The institution is especially noted for
the training of teachers. Fifteen percent of the high school principals in
New England are Bates graduates, almost twice as many as from any other
college. Harvard stands second in this
respect.

Bates College is located at Lewiston,
Maine. The twin cities of Lewiston,
and Auburn on the banks of the Androscoggin River form a community of
fifty thousand people, the industrial
center of Maine. Since the majority
of the people of Lewiston are French
Canadians, there are many ties with
Canada,

Bates teams have enviable records
in athletics as well as in debating. In
1932 one of the most dramatic football
contests of the year was staged in the
Yale Bowl when the Fighting Bobcats
from Bates held Yale scoreless for a tie.
A Bates man has been on every Amterican Olympic Track team since 1912.
Among her track stars has been Rus-],
sell Chapman of the class of 1931 whose
mark of 1 min, 61.5 seconds for the half

   
  
 
   
   
   
  
  

 

In removing Dr. John Stewart, death
has taken a great Dalhousian and a
great Nova Scotian. Dr, Stewart was
more than a surgeon, for fifty years he
has been the beau ideal of his profession, its knight sans peur et sans reproche. Generations of young Nova
Scotian doctors have grown up under
the shade he cast, have been spurred
to nobler things by the austere and beautiful quality of his spirit. It is unlikely that there will ever again arise

 

Everyman’s Now
In College Store

Thanks to the efforts of President
Stanley, there has been placed in the

store, as most of the students have
already discovered, a complete set
of Everyman Library. These books
were sent as a sort of sample by Dents
Publishing Firm and, in the short
period after their arrival, sold in large
numbers. On an average, ten books
a day were bought, and this at a time
when everyone was busied with examinations. Pres. Stanley expressed to
the Gazette that he was more pleased
with the students reception of these
books than anything else that had
happened here, the more so, since the
students have been buying, not only
fiction and semi-texts, but the whole
range offered. Needless to say, Dents
have also been pleased, especially when
“Polar-Pie”’ sent in replacement orders.

The reason why the books were
brought here is simple.

Pres. Stanley, quizzing one of the
students as to why he did not buy
books, was stumped by the reply
“Where can we buy books here?” As
he told us, it ‘‘was now his move’’, so
he got in touch with a friend connected
with Dents. Frankly skeptical, Dents
sent the complete set; their cynicism
has changed.

The books are reprints of all the best
classical works written—whether in
English, Frerch, German, Italian
Latin or Oriental. They sell so cheaply because of standardized production
and because the firm only prints books
whose sales are sure, Even at the
beginning of this century, reprints of
books such as those by Gray, Pope and
others were unheard of. Copies could

only be secured by diligent searching
(Continued on page 4)

 

   
 
   
 
    
  

in his profession here one who wili create the same aura of nobility.

He was born in Nova Scotia and went
to Edinburgh for his medical education,
There, because of the quality of. his
mind, he fell under the influence of the
great Lister, who was then beginning to
bring into being that amazing technique
that was to revolutionize medical practise. Lister took him to London as
one of the two or three assistants by
whose aid he was to complete the conquest of that dark power holding surgery in escrow.

One may well say that at that time
the world lay at John Stewart’s feet.
Had he remained in London, unquestion
ably he would have become one of the
outstanding figures in British medicine.

But he chose to return to his own province and become the pioneer in America
of the Listetian evangel. And he came
because, in spite of a world lying at his
feet, he loved Nova Scotia. At first
he practised in the town of Pictou; but
talent and character such as his could
not remain hidden there, His fame
spread over the province and he was
induced. to settle finally in Halifax.
Strangely, Halifax did not recogrize
his outstanaing merits as they were
recognized throughout Canada, never
put to the fullest test his fine capabilities. A wayward genius seemed to
dog his career and he reached the place
his merit deserved long after he was in
the prime of life. In fact, he was only
coming into his own when the war broke
out. It was characteristic of his selfeffacing devotion to duty that he volunteered immediately and became head
of the Dalhousie Unit. Probably no

DEBATE WINNERS

 

Messrs. Murray (left) and Seamon, Bates College debaters,
who defeated Daihousie Tuesday night.

 

Dr. John Stewart, Dean of
N. S. Physicians, Passes

 

CC
a
EEE

 

 

Lectures Will Be

Continued

 
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
 

Encouraged by the success of last
year’s lectures, Pres. Stanley has arranged for a corresponding series this
year. Beginning on Friday, Jan. 12,
and continuing every Friday until
February 16, these lectures, designed
so that every student will find at]ed by Mr. Murray and Mr.
least one to his taste, will be held in the Dal. team of
gymnasium at 8.15 p. m. Last year} Lawrence and Hawco in the
the students turned out in good numbers and it is expected that they will] the auspicesof the N.F.C.U.S. Pres.
do so this year, the scheduled lectures Stanley welcomed the spe akers to
promising to be as interesting as before] Dalhousie and introduced the m to the
and students being admitted fo: 25] audience, a small crowd of about 100.
cents a lecture or an all-inclusive ticket] He recalled that Dalhousie owes its

at $1.00.

By a vote of 55 to 56, Bates Colle: ge,

defeated the

foundation to the money
On Jan. 12, Dr. Pelluet, of Dalhousie. from the pillaging of a village in
will speak on “Experimental Grafting Maine by Halifax privateers and exin Animal Embryos,” Dr. Pelluet is} Pressed the opinion that Dalhousie,
well known to the biological students| ¥ hether she won or lost the debate,
ard’ her lecture wall he interesting to would always be one-up on the people
stienceé tadenis. from Maine. Through a mistake by
the N. F. C. U. S., both teams pre
W aS _~+| pared for a different resolution, Daloodhead, Prof. of Classics at McGill housie, “That this house deplores

will discuss ‘‘Plato as a Literary the rise of economic nationalism,”’
Artist,” Plato is usually read for his B
theories on philosophy and_ politics;
the discourse on his literary abilities
will be rather novel.

resulting

   
  
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
  

A week later, Jan. 19, Dr. W. D.

and
ates “‘That this house deplores the
spirit of economic nationalism.’ Despite this unfortunate difference both
} teams spoke wittily and learnedly.

Dr. H, F. Munro, Superintendent of
Education in Nova Scotia and known| Lawrence, opening the debate for
to every student, will, on Jan. 26, take} Dalhousie, defined nationalism as a
as his subject ‘‘The Freedom of thej state of mind existing among inaiviSeas.” Considering the present rivalry | duals constituting a nation whereby
in naval armaments.and the possibility | things done by their nation are better
as Prof. Zimmern pointed out here,|than things done by other nations.
of the League employing the use of] Economic nationalism cannot get the
economic blockades as sanctions for] world out of the morass it is in at
international agreements, this subject] present because it is based on the old
should prove beneficial to those who} Mercantile Theory of Trade, that is
follow current events. to get as much gold in one’s country as

Dr. H. E. Bigelow, Head of the | Possible.
Chemistry Dept. at Mount Allison,
lectures on “The Twilight Zone of leader of the Bates team
Matter’ on Feb.2. Dr. Bigelow is one| 224 who spoke here for his college two
of the best known chemists in the] years ago, quoted from Sir Arthur
Maritimes and, according to the Mount | Salter that economic nationalism was
A. students, is a capable speaker. He|that tendency of thought and policy
will speak on inanimate and organic which makes the nation the economic
chemistry, possibly connecting chemis-| Unit rather than the individual. He
try a and biology. said nationalism is largely a product

of the depression and, belittling the

On Feb. 9, Dr. Nichols, Dalhousie ciate doctrine, called ion the
Rene OF SMES, will talle‘on i nations to put their houses in order.
and Letters, a Problem of Definition, Individualism, as in countries where
Dr. Nichols has been heard to say that the nation does not control economic
~elence _ the search +08 Seen but trends, results in power accumulating
literature is aie ao of it ; those in the unscrupulous hands of men like
who have enjoyed his dry humour in the Gaerne) Eosull.
Dalhousie Review will doubtless want
to hear him.

other commanding officer ever gained
to such an extent as he the respect and
love of his men, to say they worshipped
him is no exaggeration.

Returning from the war, full of honors, he became Dean of the Dalhousie
Medical School. Under his aegis the
latter was transformed from a very
third-rate into a Grade A institution
with a recognized standing all over the
continent. Here again it was not so
much the work he did as the character
of that work, as the ideal which he made
to dominate the school’s development.

And now, when he was already on the
verge of three score years and ten
those honors and recognitions that
should have been his long since began
to crowd upon him. He was made an
LL.D. by Dalhousie at one of the University’s most impressive convocations.
He was made an LL.D. by Edinburgh,
his old Alma Mater. But perhaps of
all these he was proudest of being called
upon to give the first Lister Oration
before the Canadian Medical. Association. Only those who have read this
little masterpiece can realize the labor
of love it was, can see what a deep and
almost religious veneration for the subject flowed beneath the sweet beauty of
its prose.

And now he has gone. To me, personally, it is like the passing of a demigod. From my earliest beginnings I
had had his image impressed upon my
mind by a mother and father who had
both fallen under the spell of his personality while he was still in Pictou.
And when later, I myself got to know
him I realized how inevitable had been
the feelings of my parents towards him.
He seemed to stand so high above the
pettiness of mean and sordid ambitions,
his way was marked by such nobility,
of purpose, he had so high and irfrangible a sense of honor, that those others
of my elders and betters who stood beside him shrank inevitably in comparison. I think he represented, that his
character epitomized, all that is best
in the Scotch tradition of Nova Scotia.
He was the fine fruit of its flowering.
And it is our privilege as Nova Scotians

Murray,

Hawco, second speaker for Daldelivered by Dr. W. H. Fyfe, Principal] dependent world, no nation can be
of Queens on “An Ancient English | self-sufficient, through self-sufficiency
School.”” This school, of which Dr.|is the goal of economic nationalists.
Fyfe was once head, is one where all the | He summed up the theory of economic
students hold scholarships, and should | nationalism as finally resulting, whatmake excellent lecture material. ever be its original intentions, as the
spirit, ‘my country, right or wrong.’

ee ee

that we can present his life before men| %¢amon, the other speaker for the
as the supreme earnest of whatever negative and following what Prof.
workik Wwe hace: Zimmern has said, drew a distinction

So, to conclude this humble tribute, I between economic nationalism, as he
quote again words I have already used | $4W it, and political nationalism, which
yet which better than any others I can his opponents sought to cail economic
find seem to make a fitting vale. nationalism.

Loftily lying,

Leave him—still loftier than

world suspects,
Living and dying.

After the rebuttals, Pres. Stanley
spoke amusingly while the ballots were
being counted. He congratulated the
speakers and remarked that the topic
of discussion was timely in view of
present world affairs.

the

H. 3, A.

 

| MILLIONAIRES -BOILERMAKERS BALL 
The Nova Scotian Hotel

Friday, January 19th. 1934
GRAND MARCH 8.30 p. m.

 

. _ COUPLE $3.50 |

 

 

No. 11

TES COLLEGE DEBATERS DEFEAT DALHOUSIE

Bates College
Debaters Win
Over Dal Pair

upholding the negative, and representSeamon,
Messrs.
debate
held in the Gym Tuesday night, under

 

i
}
|
|
|

The last lecture on Feb. 16 will be| housie, pointed out that, in this inter- |

|
|
  

_ Associates,

= Borden Stoddard.
J. L. Dubinsky.

_ NEWS DEPARTMENT.

aE oo _EDITOR—HARRY SUTHERLAND, B5487.
Goa gens ae pacts Douglas Crease.

Peto ae _ Arthur Merkel. ;

EY: aa - James MacIntosh.

3 SPORTS
Pee _ EDITOR—TED CREASE, B5737.

te : "Associates: Donald B . Cameron.
aw M Ruth Skaling.

“GIRLS EDITOR: MARTHA KENISTON.

 

i “ee ; _ Asso: iates: Mary Simmonds.
eC RS | Merle Purtill.
bene ie _ BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.
‘ grit ‘* oa a Mai ager . Circulation Assistant Manager
..* SDAVID-H. HOLLAD ry GR, MACDONALD. OWRD: C. Sees B.A.
J = Smet an SEASONAL FRIVOLITIES.

La

"= 2 Se

Oy

W® are embarking upon the open season tor social gaiety
at our Little College. That, in itself, will occasion no
Banirine, for such profusion of parties as we have seen fit to have
_ for ourselves in the past has been concentrated in this part of the
winter term. If we are going to have parties this seems a very
sensible time of year to have them.

et

CT Fae
+

ATS

fa

    
    
    
  
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
    
  
 
    
    
    
    
   
   

ot
ae

A

7’

Me,

  

i:

ie:
"ts 7
a ee: 7

- There appears no good reason that we should cease to have
“parties. It is scarcely conceivable that any people have come up
here with the idea of rendering their lifes miserable. Some re
car

ae _ereation of the party variety is acceptable to most of the country’s
‘ Da youth and seems to be due them. Dances cost us time and money.
o> We should be able to afford considerable of the former and some

ed of the latter. So, why should we not have parties?
ge a We have suggested that there are excellent reasons for our
mae: A. Mellen frivolities. We now submit that there are many and
ot cogent reasons why we should not overdo the frivolous—intensively
orate extensively. It is no doubt bad for ourselves to expend too
much of our time and money. The university was never intended
to be the medium to a social career. Our Dalhousie social life
: _ should be a mere incident to our main purpuse, a relaxation _to
Gr + Diet our principal endeavour.
tere: ts that we keep the frivolities in their proper place.

There is another Sudle to ‘our social problem. People—ind pe le—are watching us from the outside. Their judgect peareliete: We should have a care
mes

¢ created that some things
| der in a light difering from the way we
- past Sc uiel outsiders have judged us on a few

alf athe, be without a knowledge ot the whole circuma his 1 is unfortunate, but nevertheless it does us harm.
sly suggest, to the social committees in their plans, and

cet e individual student in his or her participation, the judicious

DEBATING TOURS.

The visit of the Bates debating team, commencing as we go to
press, brings the first major debate ot the year to the Dalhousie
teams. Bates College is world-famed for the excellence of its
debating, a reputation built up by long years of attention to the
art and innumerable contests with other universities. The visit
ite of Messrs. Murray and Seamon should afford a happy stimulus
eee o. to our local debating, seemingly somewhat in need ot attention.

---——- Debating tours have become very popular in Canadian colleges
these last few years. Before the N. F. C. U.S. tock debating into
its program and inaugurated the all-Canada tour, interchange of
college debaters was infrequent and regional. Very seldom were
teams imported from outside Canada and then only to the larger
universities. The arrangement of an extensive Canadian tour
: _ Was an almost impossible task. In 1928 the establishment of a
‘permanent office for the National Federation provided falitie
for negotiationsin the names of all colleges interested in receiving
ae Pace teams from other countries. The Federation was not
sn slow in setting up the machinery, nor the colleges slow in making
use of it. The result has undoubtedly been helpful to Canadian
+5 collegiate debating. Teams have come from the United Kingdom,
= uscealia, New Zealand and the United States. Their respective
_ tours across Canada have met with general acclaim. Canadian
= te have been sent abroad, thereby supplying to Canadian
8 sudents the converse benefits of the tours. The debating tour
‘system is becoming increasingly popular, and, it would appear
| justifiably sO.

al

ia ef | Shirreff Hall Notes

 

 

mages +

It were well in our own selfish

hese external judges, and we

~/ EXCHANGES

CANADIAN COLLEGE
COMMENT.

Does a student enter campus activities merely for the publicity he
receives from it? Such was the burning question asked by the Oregon
Emerald in a recent article. The
Daily was of the opinion that such
was the case.

Our answer is that three times out
of five he does and he does so because
he believes it to be the quickest,

surest and safest way to become popular

on the campus,
Next we might wonder whether men
and women of the state enter political

life for the publicity they receive

from it. Our answer here is that one
out of five does.

Whether students are public minded
enough to work to attain positions
from which they may administer their
own ideas which they believe will
benefit Society, or in the local case, the
campus, cannot be determined. It is
usually found that when a student is
selected to fill a position, he or she
will throw whole-hearted effort into
satisfactory execution. This, we also
add, may be done fot the selfisn reason
of securing another and more noticeable job in the future. Little harm
comes from this psychological urge.

We commend the man who takes
the work, puts his heart and soul into
it and does it without expectation of
recompense. He is the student who
will benefit most from the experience
he enjoys and who will continue his
advancement when all means of public
notice have been withdrawn.

Is it the picture in the paper that
urges him to complete his task? Perhaps it is, but what harm can that do?
His acquaintance is broadened, his
ability as an executive is increased and
he may consider his college career a
huge success.

Still we admire the man who will
shrink from public sight.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
 

 

Of what does the class-room sleeper
dream? It might be classed as one of
the three great mysteries. However
the Varsity comes forward with a
neat philosophical outlook. The luxury of quotation is to considerable to
resist.

- DREAMS.

To dream is but to glimpse the
future or recall the past, to forget the
petty cares of a passing day or sublimate our work-a-day life to a higher
and more spiritual state. Ethereal,
evanescent, dreams linger but a brief
while, yet their effect upon us is lasting.
They beautify our thoughts and transmute them to deeds in the world of
make-believe, deeds that we well may
emulate today, tomorrow or in the
hazy future that lies befure us. Dreams
may be said or gay, mystical or practical, but they are never bad, for then
they are night-mares. In them our
emotions, our better instincts, are
gently played upon. Never do they
stir us to the depths, that is left to
life’s actualities; rather, they
stimulating,

To be a student is to be a dreamer
in popular belief, But that is no
damning epithet. The so-called practical man ot affairs by the same means
has little use or time for dreaming, yet,
repudiate if he would the application
of the term ‘‘dreamer”’ to his person,
he must, if he be a man of affairs, be,
too, a man of imagination and subject
to dreams even though they are repressed in the “quest for wealth and
power.

The student as he leaves the cloisters

are

_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

sible one to us all—

    
  
  
 
  
     
   
   
      
   
   
     
    
   
    
    
   
     
 
 
   
  
 

 

Echalaréheps We Want What
Open To We Want
Undergrads

Il—Exchange Scholarships.

Jan. 4, 1984.

Editor: Dalhousie Gazette.

With the announcement of the
Exchange Scholarships for 1934-35, a
limited number of students at Dalhousie have the opportunity of obtaining a year’s scholarship at some other
Canadian University. These scholarships, which are sponsored by the
National Federation of Canadian University Students, enable students to
study at an ‘‘exchange’”’ university for
one year without paying tuition fees
or Students Union Fees. The N. F.
C. U.S. representative on this campus
is Mr. W. H. Jost and prospective
applicants can obtain full details from
him.

The Exchange of Undergraduates
Plan was initiated about six years ago
by the executive of the N. F. C. U.S.,
and came into operation five years ago
after the presidents, registrars and
financial authorities of the Canadian
universities had given their consent.
Under the plan -the universities are
divided into four groups—the University of British Columbia, the univerof the Prairie Provinces, the
universities of Ontario and Quebec,
and the universities of the Maritimes.
Scholarships may be awarded only
where a student of one university
wishes to obtain a scholarship at a
university in a different ‘‘division.”’
This is subject to one exception—
Ontario students may apply for scholarships to French-Canadian universities in Quebec for the purpose of taking
special studies in the French language
and vice versa.

Dear Sir:

Would it be inappropriate if, at the
beginning of the New Year, I pointed
out some aspects of college life with
which I am not at all pleased and which
can, in some cases at least, be easily
remedied?

Is the library room for the students
or for the convenience of the library
staff? Why should fifteen or twenty
students be turned out, just before
exams, at five-thirty? If the library
is not worth running for these students
it is not worth running at all. And
why is not a bottle of ink always kept
in the library for the use of students?
Just before exams I meta girl, who had
to interrupt her train of thought and
go downstairs to get her coat, on her
way to the gym. What for? To get
some ink at the store. She laid that she
could not even buy it at the library.

Why are students compelled to write
three exams in one day? Did the
schedule-maker ever do so? Were the
students ever consulted? After all
they write the exams.

Which should be remedied first?
The physically dangerous icy paths or
the remote possibility of damage during initiation. As usual a row is raised
all over the least important and least
probable. After all ashes are not very
expensive. How about putting them
on all the paths? Which leads me to
ask why the office will, in the spring,
post a notice requesting us to keep to
the paths? Is it not human nature to
prefer lawns to sloughs? Planks, too,
are not very expensive.

Why is there not a rink on the football fied? AJl that is necessary is a
hose and some wuter. Is that too expensive? ‘The icy foundation is there.
The weatheris here. The accumulated
snow would soon form an enbankment.
No need to fuss-over sawdust and
planks and lights. Do without.

Hoping,
PERTINENCE.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
    
 

sities

Any student, male or female, may
apply if he is, at the time of his application, in the second year of his course
or, in the case of five year courses, in
the second or third year. It is a condition of each appointment that the
Exchange Scholar must return, at the
conclusion of his scholarship year to
complete his: course at his ‘‘home”’
university. Consequently a Sophomore taking the usual four-year Arts
course may be awarded a scholarship
for his third year; in the case of fiveyear courses the scholarship may be
awarded either for the third or fourth
year,

An Exchange Scholar is expected to
be a representative student of his
‘“‘home”’ university in every way. It
is not necessary that he should have
a first-class academic standing but he
must be a competent student who will
be able to enter freely into the life of the
“exchange” university without fear of
class-room consequences.

About fifty-five students have received Exchange Scholarships during
the past five years. This yeara total of
six are enjoying the privileges of the
Exchange Plan—one at McGiil, one at
Dalhousie, one at British Columbia,
and three at Toronto. In most cases
the saving in tuition fees more than
balances the transportation costs involved. Applications must be handed
in to the N. F. C. U. S. representative
before March Ist, 1934.

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   

Economics 1

Commerce 4

aoe SULLIVAN,

We Announce-FOR WEARY STUDENTS.

Following the ardure of writing exams, the strain of the recent two weeks
social activities and the nightmare of
scanning the pass-list, this scheme of
rest reported in the Montreal Daily
Star would appear a peculiarly sen
   
 

 

January 11th. 1934

CARICATURES

With Reverence
For None

 
  

Cc. L. BENNETT.

Professor Bennet is head of the
English department, and during the
first few lectures every freshie-sorh
wonders why. By the end of the
course, however, they invariably change
their minds. At times we are convineed that one doesn't need to be a
fool to understand hin., but it would
help a lot; at others we are amazed
at the interesting possibilities of what
he implies in his lectures. Genius and
insanity are said to be ciosely related.
He never says a thing directly when
he can express it otherwise, and is
noted for his systematic lack of system.
Good students are pleasantly surprised
and foolish virgins sadly dismayed at
what turns out to be the method in his
madness,

In the winter he thinks up strategies
to make students read Milton and
recreates himseif with the Saturday
Evening Post; in the summer he cultivates roses and his infant son Jimmie.
He is very successful with the roses,
He reprimands Jimmie with the same
pedantic prolixity that he would censure a member of the Royal Society
the infant probably understands him
as well as the most of his students.
He never combs his hair and always
wears a fresh rose in his lapel, it is
said his wife both admires him and
understands him, two apparently incompatible attitudes but not in his
case... He makes clever contributions
to the Dalhousie Review and could
write an excellent book on gardening,
Someday he may. Meanwhile he
works hard making English students
work for themselves.

Joe DeWitt—Do you love me, Annie?

Isabet De Half Witt-—Of course I
do, but my name is Isabel.

Joe—Why, so it is, I keep thinking
this is Monday.

SPECIAL TUTORING

Commerce 1

Commerce 5

Rates Reasonable

B. A. (St. F. X.)
M. B. A. (Harv.)

328 SOUTH STREET

SAVE SHEKELS AT SHANE’S SALE

 

Our Annual January Sale

200/° Off

ALL SUITS—TUXEDOS—HATS—CAPS

 

 

of knowledge and seems success and
adventure in the street of life, may take
with him a heritage of dreams that to
some are known as ideal. May the
student never forget his dreams nor
lose his capacity for dreaming. To
him it will be a source of strength, of

SHIRTS AND OTHER FURNISHINGS

250/° Off

 
  
 
 
 
 

It may sound incredible but it is an
undeniable fact that one eminent
American University has established
a course of open-air classes in rest and
relaxation, not, be it noted, for the
overworked, underfed and_ toilworn
laborer but for its girl students who

 

 

‘@

    
  
   
  
   
 

“Whiere'werk: you on the night of Dec.
Be Pe: certain. other dates is getting to
| _ bea common question around the Hall.
«Even 2 tosh bio friends are open to
ic d have to give an account

quired Waker ph ahe-kedieck

It’s no fun any more, the results of
the freshettes on the examinations
were so commendable that it looks as
though there would be very few‘‘bores”

pleasure and relaxation.
we be ashamed of dreaming nor attempt to suppress our natural inclination except when we find that rather
than governing our dreams our dreams

Never should

 

find the business of study too exhausting when taken in conjunction with
the high pressure of living, which involves
social duties that are as

 
  
   

parties, dances and_ similar

much an

THE REMAINDER OF OUR WINTER OVER| COATS

THIS SALE WILL CONTINUE UNTIL

  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
 

ert, wa some of the out this term. That’s one for the
boys.

And then there are some who think
ye e is what. we need. At any| that since there is all this talk about
e of ‘us are among the great | chaperones, some should be provided
ed by the depression we| to escort the girls between the Halland
ting a bit bitter about the whole | the campus proper of an afternoon bea ain hope that it aoa hap-| tween 2 o'clock and 6 for now that
nm again soon. — f a: Prof. Ells is not with us we have no
Miss Mary I esa of St. ‘Joho, champion in this situation. More
¥ seer likely it’s a matter for the police. It’s

eS college
on ina Hboral education,

are governing us.—The. Varsity.

The Story before the exams.—

I have my work down so cold that
it is necessary for me to study with my
Overcoat on.

He can’t pluck me im that class.
When the prof. wants to know anything he just asks me a question.

I can’t possibly get through this
exam. I brought my chemistry shirt
instead of my latin one!

If you have five plucks how many
classes wiil have to be dropped?

essential of their lives as their st udies.

After all it may not be such a bad
idea, All talking and reading is prohibited during the rest classes and
those attending them are encouraged
to sleep.

JANUARY. 20th.

Shane’s Mens Wear

30 Spring Shop Garden Road

 
      

ELE Eee

You know the library seems to be an
awful sad place. The windows are
all in panes and the books in tiers.
Even Lola smiles very sickly upon the
Coliege burper.

 

 

: — . i = 5, ¥
: “ha , r ? ‘i aa « Te 2 . , 9 A +, 7 “’ »,
+ 7 “7, a rr. t; a Zi

oe a
a. |
“ te

en oe Bees

~ ; bata Ac ik | :
oy ni 7 te eta NAL, AUS tn

  
   

   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
    
 
     
   
   
  
  
    
   
     
  
  
   
   
  
   
    
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
     
   
   
    
     
   
   
  
    
   
      
    
  
   
 
  

eee neem aint Sa meas eh gee oc ne pene Se ne ee ee icp bins Se et ME et Se ee SS ee — ———=
a hes she 4 hey? a » in "5 < Dies a te a “} Ay F ;
wh awe ee ans! ~*~ Cs a ft =) jae mT ? se = eS . &. -/ :
; bh ai ie iS : 25 . * i *
-y! 8 B , a. Eid >. a 2 ’ et om ear *
: y ; et : it >
z eons ose , = ‘
7: — 7
“eet vat Od everee ye is Apap , : . *. , ;
ro Pe re et 25 Ks di ate n ee b a 5 -" ; oe ; . a3
ee ab Dae |S ere Fenn GN a is ns : ' .
* i a . ” » . *
es Saf 2 Gy RR ee a oa See
Se eT ee .
; 2 s yt ase ; =
Se DALHOUSIE GAZETTE | Page Three

 

 

| ee

Commerce-Eng. Advocates Award\C. O. T. C. Pays
Dance Planned |For Second Teams Tribute To
: For Next Week |,.,... Sir Arthur Currie

Dalhousie Gazette.
The Walrus once said, ‘‘the time has

come to talk of many things," but if | Sjp.— aoe oo ;
the Walrus were with us today he i 4 ye nother year rolls by and we enter
id ed ea} oe I am a grdduate from Dalhousie l'\“as the time that Canada paid tribute) ynon a new term. Some of u ;
would say, there is only one thing at| University, Medicine 1926, and while to cher great soldier, as he passed - 2 ef oO : may
the moment to discuss—‘‘The Million- : , ave made new year’s resolutions
de Boiletoiakerts Ball? Pee ra ee through the streets of Montreal toward such as studying much harder than
= : ; ; vate “Ylhis final resting place, the Dalhousie “a : ee
Since the Christmas holiday the} teams for seven years, thus avoiding entiaeene ae nee tes os ae a or contributing
eee hing Wee MIlgeOty” 40) the tedious drudgery of being a mem- the chapel of King’s College to honour os on iectee tee oe eles
perfect their plans and they are NOW| ber o1 a second team, which always in the’ imenioi ob thd ines (Sh Aen case we are all looking forward to
ready to present a distinctively differ-| my opinion teok the brunt of the daily! Currie better results in the future and Obent program, outlined in the fcllowing scrimmage and sat in the background : server hopes that this Column will not
brief. unseen during a varsity contest . Dr. Moore our Chaplain, opened| be forgotten. The Gazette has made
| A grand parade with Jerry Naugler| This has alesis Seetied te ie daoee| te service and Prof. Walker read the some changes and the new writer of
and his band in the lead will march] unfair, especially since a member of | text. Major Griffin spoke of the life}this column wishes you the Complithrough the lobby into the ballroom the second team re of the Canadian Corps Commander | ments of the season and hopes that
to start the first of a series of rhy and why he felt that we might well | ach of you will do something in helping
dance numbers. pause for a few moments to mourn nis me give the students articles that they
Scattered between these dances there I read with much interest in the| Passing. will like and appreciate. Here's for
will be six short floor shows varying | November 28rd issue of the Dalhousie] si; ‘Arthur Currie in dx arieietica (eo fun and sober wit.
im Compesition from. a group of six Gazette, a small paragraph with refer- day message delivered a few days
female dancers aoe classical number, lence to this matter. I hope very| before his death asked, ‘‘Has the world 5 7A kage
Rhapsody in Blue, fe tang-| much that this important suggestion | done anything more in these fifteen Heard
ti Peas and ae “ay ormers’ will not be dropped and placed in the years than give lip service to the i around the eer
tC a various intervals help to pass discard, as so many other good sug-| ideals for which AES Pete ( ae a Bee oe Compliments
eo Neher hee b gestions are. I personally endorse gave their lives?”” The answer to this H e ee 1) ME 8 oy pact her
oe EE NS IanS pve eer | the thought for due recognition to a question is found in the actual condi- ws many plucks did you get? Gee
en as a Tee on # age member of the second team, whether] tions of the faut: ald-thess Goud eens ee eee I've got the
an uman incomprehensibleness Of/in Rugby, Hockey or Basketball, and are such that Armistice Day should |Cutest dress for mas, but I am not
his profession, will endeavor by his [ would like to make an additional : 1 gOing to wear it to a frat party. Did
actions to mitigate the boredom ot | thought or two relative to some means you see that Cousins-Hix won a scholarsuch “‘time’s-between.’”’ Likewise an ship? My, I am glad Len Saffron did
intelligence test will be conducted at so well. Didn't Bob Weitz outguess
this time. Several cards with ques- Professor Bennett? Do you know |

tions printed on them will be placed Though I attended Dalhousie, I Perhaps students of the younger gener. believe Bord Stoddard has a new hat?
on the mezzaine floor desks, these will | , ve been in close touch with Many off acini. will nor reniedbee. Sic Reta: My, isn’t Hymn No. 106 Anderson
be filled in, collected and examined. | ,,. American Universities in New| Currie in the same wav as snes oa big and strong? You know Bord, the
The results will be announced at a England, and they have various plans, | remember the davs oie Ral gaa i Flash, is the only one that can tie him
later dance. and E suggest to you three which||eader in the great strugele iftas he | UP on a basketball court. Is professor

It is also planned during SUPPEF | seem in vogue, first, a member of al was Cocnwnaiedial one oi Mas dine Wilson back yet? Oh’ goody, goody—
hour to have some sort of unique second team is awarded the college or Sate Shade eer eae rn pe Hotchaski. .Too bad about Freeman—

entertainment. university letter with a bar which is}4, a man of high cutee: Whe! was they say he was plucked in everything,
Amusement is the keynote of the beneath the letter, as example D. loo bad.
evening. To further substantiate this Secondly, give
?

they have planned an elimination De Sate
dance. The master of ceremonies letter,
will call out certain classes and styles
of clothing and all participants attending such classes or wearing such apparel will be required to leave the
floor, The couples who remain on the

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
  

i

  
 
 
 
   
 

=~ :
25, 1938, the German ag. mentalism cannot forever present a
_ Act was made public and since recognition of scientific truths and a
has been widely denounced andj realization of their necessary applica‘condemned by the papers of|tion in the fight for progress. Barn: Nevertheless, on Jan. 1,/yard breeding! What contempt can
it into effect. = be poured into those two words by sickust as the Nietzche was the first to} ly looking inaividuals, yet one observply evolutionary principles to the | ant glance at the symetrical movements
ae ral code, so is the German Hitler | and sleek graceful strength of any well_ the first to apply these same principles] bred animal should cause the average
oma large scale to social life. Niet-| human, to hide his clumsy movements
- zsche was “the first consistent Dar-|in shame. Ever since Aristotle un_ winian,” he carried natural selection | fortunate remark that man isa rational!
a OT step farther by making it purpo-|animal, the proud bearers of the epiae ive. Hitler, in turn, is for the first}thet have considered themselves be* time, making the sociological life of | yond the rules of the animal kingdom
Germany purposive and subjecting the | and by diets and cures sought to evade
___ habits of his people to the same scienti-|its consequences. For dear vanity’s
fic scrutiny as other fields of study|sake the female of the species has in
_ Naturally a storm of criticism has arisen | some lines made herself healthier and
in the pulpit and the press and there is| happier than her historic predecessors,
the insistent cry of the reactionist that | Indeed, as Will Durant says ‘Modern
' human liberty is being restricted and woman cultivates her skin with such an
___ individual rights trammeled. Why?| assortment of chemicals as makes sci_ Because the German nation has decided | entific agriculture seem primitive and
Bot. to improve the standard of their race] incompetent, “but in other respects,
because it has recognized that an in-|like the styles of shoes, she manages to
_ telligent healthy and thorough-bred| keep herself in perpetual agony.
__ people is best able to cope with the de-}_ Why the average person refuses to
mands and perplexities of modern life | recognize the danger of this continued
oe a) far other nations have shut their } and increasing propogation of the weakeyes to the fact that the poorest and | est and lowest section of the human race
me _ worst strata of society increases the|is most difficult to understand. The
ie fastest, and by misguided charity, they | economic, if not the biological and sochoose to accelerate it by ignoring the] ciological danger should convince the
ag danger, they think they are avoiding | harder headed ones at least. Mental
it. Yet, to quote from the Canada hospitals alone cost Canada annually
— — Year Book, 1933, “The rapid increase | $12,048.184and many mental diseasesare
in the numbers committed to our vari-| hereditary and could thus be prevented
___ 9us institutions, such as mental hos-] by scientific eugenics. The Eugenics
_ pitals for the insane, feeble-minded, | Review for October laments, reasonably
__ and epileptic; the increasing number of | enough, that in Holland, ‘the manageinstitutions for the care of the aged and] ment of a mental hospital occasionally
eo _ incurable, as well as for the care of the | allows its feeble-minded male patients
___~ dependant, neglected and handicapped|to visit their feeble-minded wives in
Saye children, have been a marked feature of | Amsterdam, with the consequences, to
be expected from long experience, that

the twentieth century.”
__-_‘ The church raises its hands in holy | new mentally deficient children are added to the already large defective fam
horror that at last a nation has seen fit
ilies.” It is little wonder, then, that
one government at least should awake

_ to check its decadence. The body is

 

_ 7 ~ 7

    
    
   
  
  

ceived no recognithmic| tion, and in many cases is responsible
for the varsity success,

smite the conscience of the worlc
So in honoring the dead he challenged
in which due recognition could be the living, challenged and entreated
given, and I believe would be appre-| them to work for the ideals of peace
ciated by the players affected. for which so many gave their lives.

ready to fight for his ideals, and we
a D and have the figure | can take up his challenge to carry on
of the D, and ND after the] the struggle for peace. When we Ae
as example: 2Dnd. Thirdly, };+ead nis words that “Our world is net
award a straight D with no bar or yet done with the necessity for heroism
other additions, if a man is a member | and sacrifice.” We must realize that
of the varsity team for two years in| we are included in this challenge, for
succession. I believe the first sug-};, doing so we may best hoadas his

Bill Gladstone writes a letter to
the new editor of this Column and
wants the word ‘kiss’ analysed and
defined. This is a pretty ‘delicate

ih : i Bill, but I'll try to fi
Paes Cees. a2 a tg a Nowe 2S 7 ees i : : gestion, namely the use of a bar is the | Memory. word Bill, o fix you up,
‘suc bod seeet Het be interferred with, to its responsibility and insist upon com. | floor will be—Oh well, come and see simpler, and if a man plays on a second ; : A kiss is always a pronoun because
ega dless of how may times the edifice pulsion if necessary He CURDS such oY for yourself. team the first year, and then is a mem- Perfect silence prevailed in the| she stands for at
5) str evil. One need not involve a doctrine

[ ongenital feeble- i There are many other forms of en- ber of the varsity, the succeeding chapel as the bugler sounded The Last It is masculine and feminine gender
renia, inherited tertainment which would not be ex- yeat,.it is, fo: trouble to remove. the Post. Then the service closed with the | m ixed, therefore common.
a ce, m
   
    
   
   

of the Superman to see that a purer
cleaner rac

  

eanel ane walaxge from such meas- | pedient oe relate at this premature bar, and also a -bar is not as con-| hymn, ‘'The Supreme Sacrifice.”’ It is a conjunction, because it joins.
a4 | Nor insist upon Nordic superior hour. The committee believes that spicuousas 2Dnd. | It is an interjection, at least it sounds
, ity. One need only realize that human | jt has a program unique in the social

I do not believe any other University “O valiant Heart who to your glory | like one.
or College in the: Maritime Provinces = It is plural because it calls for
have any. such award, and why cannot | Through dust of conflict and through | another.

   
  

holism, — the victims of
e to be made sterile if commedical doctors judge that they

superiority can be-reached if the problem is regarded in the same clear dis
passionate light that has made progress

circles of Dalhousie and attempts
this year to break away from the
stereotype dance of the past. There

 
     
  

              
        
       
  
   
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
  

ee : " Bey DRC : oon . Dalhousie institute such a program and battle-flame It is usually in opposition to caress
pate ial be transmitted to e offspring. possible in other fields. Perhaps Niet- has been criticism from outside the let it be an invitation for the neighbor- | Tranquil you lie, your knightly virtue | #* any rate it is sure to follow.
li er has decided to take efinite ac-|zche seems a little harsh and cruel | university about the ungentlemanly ing colleges to follow their lead. caiced It is singular because there is nothing
as tion against these evils and root them conduct and it is their aim to help to y awed tarts ada just like it,
Biei . : i ; . . i is 3 ek our memory hallowed in the Lanc
rs out of the German nation despite out- when he states that ‘the weak and ill lessen this increasingly unproductive Yours very sincerely, vod ae % [t can sometimes be conjugated, but
we _ side public opinion, while in other na-|constituted shall perish and people} opinion. If we wish to continue danc- 7k

never declined.

It i6 a preposition as it governs an
objective case,

Altho it expresses feeling it is not an

tions “‘deliberately to thwart the law of | shall help them to do so. Sympathy
___ selection among species, and their na-| thwarts, on the whole, the law of de~*~ _ tural means of purging their stock of | velopment which is the law of selection
e _ degenerate members has been made the | —nothing in our unsound Modernism
. _ greatest of virtues.’’ How long we can |is unsounder than Christian sympathy,
_ continue to keep the old savage at the} But he was thinking of the laws of na_~_ new helm and hope to survive is ques-|ture, and it must be admitted there isa
tionable, but a namby-pamby senti-|very large element of truth in them,

ing at the hotels we must change our MONT HASLAM
: * . ?
methods. They offer this as our con-| Concord, N. H. ieeinipaliipid
tribution, an attractive evening with
few spare moments in which time may Bit > Note Me

: ‘ Haslam will be Vi s T, Ss b adverb because it cannot be compared,
be dissipated to everyone's detriment, remembered by miany as one of the isitor Oo pea
A record crowd is expected at this most famous athletes who ever attend- To-day i af

dance and there a only a limited | og Dalhousie, starring in hockey, foot- ee
number of tickets available, so get Nathatid- hacko shall . lwo faces were close together, the

q Fm b,
ae
‘ 
 

pa your's eatly. The ticket salesmen will At noon today Miss Margaret Kin-|™n’s grim and tense; the other face
Reb be listed on another column in this Toe ney will speak to all interested stu-| W@5 small and white, with two slender
paper. The Commerce-Millionaires Ball and | dents, in the Chem. Theatre, her re-}ands pressed against it. It was the

Tickets for the ““MILLIONAIRES- | professor MacNeill seem to be occupying | marks to be followed by an open for-|frail hands that rivited the man’s
BOILERMAKERS” which is to be|the spot-light at the present time.|um. Miss Kinney is a travelling sec-| horrified gaze. “Heavens,” he moanheld in the Nova Scotian Hotel, at! Professor Macneill did not realize he| retary of the Student Christian Move-|€4, still staring, and his voice was full
8.40 p. m. on Friday, January 19, may | was so popular until he sees the num-| ment and a graduate of Alberta Uni-]0f hopeless, stark tragedy. For the

Where are you

 

e be procured from the following students | ber of students who come to see him versity in the class of 82. She has|0ther face was the face of his watch
Fatin to-da ? and the University store— to wish him the best for the New Year.| been in touch with the economic and and those little hands told him he had
Lg Ve Charlie Miller. Mr. J. W. Fisher says that the big dance | political life of the west and will speak missed his train back to college,
| Carl Stoddard. will be a function which will remain | on this topic with particular reference
i - Bob Weitz. long in the memories of the students. | tothe work of students of other coleges.
oT | ‘ Don Stewart. ite tin se et Fe At the conclusion of her talk she will
| The most convenient place Gordon Thompson, Observer certainly had a tough | welcome questions on any phase of the Yesterday, Observer was riding down
| / Bord Stoddard. time during the holidays. First, I got | work with which she is acquainted. |town with Teddy Rhuland, who was

e. fi D l Si d [ t A ous. hie nine angina pectoris, followed by Arterios-| Miss Kinney is making a tour of the| driving very slowly. So I yelled
ae b or rl tu ents SY a t e Louis Petrie. clerosis, double pneumonia, and phthi- | Maritime colleges in her capacity as an | foster, Foster. He was going to buy
aoe U e | @ S — ae sis. Here they gave me hypodermics, |S. C. M. secretary and since Monday oe wag nes be getting
aye @ niversity tor e. , Jo Be aes appendicitis was followed by a tonsilo-| night she has been at Dal conferring |Bawld. © Dougnt a Block hat inee | , *, tomy. I don’t know how I pulied| with the S. C. M. here. stead o a Bloomenfeld one. I think

we: Doug. Bent. through it all. It was the hardest Ill go in Buckley's drug store and

a T F dD.. . in J, ehh S Frank Squire. : ‘ buy some Brasset acid. A bie Burl
ae By patronizing as you Save Don Archibald. spelling match I was ever in. “ arte
Oe)

ne man waited on me and he said “Be
>I Site . ; | Don Sinclair. careful, that stuff Burns so I was
tin e and oney. HALIFAX TAXI CO. Burry careful. Freddy came out of
(een 7 I n . | ie Faton'’s and started to Chase me.
ear - your es 13 16 BIRK — I ran up the street to see the Claener

ees TT ve - : e7 : . ‘
a. Ti | because ou ill t y JOHN TOBIN & CO Service a who asked us if we wanted our Coates
I A ff me SE y Ww no dic, Rata be Secon: pressed or a Crease in our pants. We
| ; LIMITED : ucents For Dance Favors, said no, we thought it was an ice cream
parlor, All we wanted was an ice
Of Course cream Cohen. We left and I ran siambang into a Copp, I thought I was a
sure Connor, He sure was Cross.
Daine we saw Dzubillier Cumming
towards us. So we said, “Who is
afraid of deWolf? Freddy began to
feel Disick. We went into the Orpheus where the Dorman started to
. block our path. We got out of there
Henry Birks &Sons in a big hurry. Freddv Found a dollar
Limited on the sidewalk. I says, “Jost what
DIAMOND MERCHANTS we want.” A man saw him pick up
Halifax, N. S. the Bill so he yells, “ZL ynch that guy,”
So I yells, “Go fly a Kyte, you give
me a Payne.’’ Moore fun next week,

i
é.

 

 

 
 
  

   

 

a
i

|have so far to go.

 
 
  

 

4

 

As quantities are not always
obtainableon short notice, Birks
advise forehandedness in ordering. Our co-operation with committees isour pleasure, and yours
to command.

ey because we provide
ach for the small sum

—s

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

  

Wholesale Grocers

   

Tea Merchants

   

 

HALIFAX, CANADA
HALIFAX and BEDFORD

 
 
  
  

Views and Abuse

If these is one A RE which could be
done away at Dalhousie, it is that
custom of college lovers parading
about the campus and elsewhere exhibiting all the horrors of their adoles
   
  

cent calf-love.

   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
  

PY a “The Gold and Black ferneed senior
pa Be and intermediate hoop squads have reBeet turned to the wars, only one member
i oi having extinguished himself in the past
-_. inquisition, A strenuous hour’s workout every day at noon is the program
prescribed by “Mussolini” Jack Thomas, the newly acquired coach, and Man» ager Don-Stewart. The collegians are
already rounding into topnotch condition and have developed a snappy
- five man combination that should
sweep them to a City Championship
and possibly a Maritime title.
Donny Bauld, accurate-eyed forward
Doug Crease, his shifty and speedy
- mate, and Sam Fairstein, the pla ymaker, are veterans of last year’s titlewea melcne campaign and prontise to give
on rflany headaches to opposing coaches.
__ Last year’s-defence is also back in harness with rangy Milt Musgrave and his
partner, the burly **Parson’’ Anderson,
breaking up scoring plays as of old.
‘In addition to these stars there is lanky
Bill Gladstone who seems to know his
stuff. Bord Stoddard of the 1933 relief line, Ken Sullivan, Ted Crease, and
Roy MacDonald, the scoring punch of
the 1933 Western Nova Scotia Inter: mediate Champs. Bob MacIntosh of
the same team, Sy Miller of Lehigh U.
and Leo Simmonds from H. C. A,
With an outfit like that and a coach
like Jack Thomas the Tigers will be
strong contenders for the title they
narrowly missed copping last season.
After watching the Wanderers and
e _ -¥. M. C. A. work out your writer is
___ inclined to give the Bengals an edge in
the titular race, Acadia, the fourth
team in the league, is something of a
dark horst but you may depend that
any team Coach Terry Osborne sends
t will take a lot of beating. Howir dications poiht out that the valid is inferior to that of last sea
2 oe: fe

r d Wanderers taking on Dala at the Y. Dal’s final two games
are to be played on her home court and
the Bengals should then have everything in theirfavour. It is impossible
to picka winner before any of the teams
go into action but keep your eyes on
those fighting Tigers because they’re
going places.
Drop into the gym some noon and
“a look them over but, above all, give
them your support when the league
opens. Last year the Y. gym got ca| _ pacity crowds when the Bengals swung
fr into action against the Wanderers
ig there, but only a scattered few who rewee fused to open their mouths attended
4 the college’s home games.

# 6 to a.

ih ~

   
 
 
 
   
  
  
  

: Tig gers! hadanedge on them.
- opens on Jan, 20 with the] |

 

Oxfords For Men
Offer Outstanding Value

an a air 5.

When you see the styles and leathers in the

p BIRKDALE range you'll appreciate their
a surprisingly moderate price!
{| ~—__ comfortably and correctly and offer models
| suitable | a men and ene men in sizes

These couples, with

apparently no other thought in their
minds than each other, clutter up
every college activity. They stand
talking on the library steps, though
sometimes they do not taik, lost in the
deepness of their emotions.
are to be seen strolling to the gym to

Or they

waste an hour joking with and annoying the others there tor the purpose
the gym was built—exercise. It one
is in class, the other haunts the lobby
of that building, with face gaunt and
sombre, lighting up only when at last
the bell rings the end cf the hour and
brings reunion. When they do spend
a night at home, it is sure to be interrupted with a 20 to 30 minute telephone
conversation, which: invariably ends

it lasts, drives frantic the other users of
residence and fraternity ‘phones.

It is easy to recognize these dozenodd couples. She wears his frat pin,
and he her class pin, though sometimes they give them back for the
summer months. Both have one thing
in common—a total lack of appreciation of the purposes for which this
college was cieated. Perhaps we
should not criticize their happy state;
love (and despair) has inspired many
great accomplishments. But this kind
of love apparently creates nothing;
her mind is on what to wear at the
next dance, his on how to pay for it.
What a pity that they so pass by the|

to separate them—let attendance at
Dalhousie become an education, not a
co-education. We might
‘girls to Wolfville,

send our
and import their

5 boys. | That would be an even swap!

‘The charge is prepared, the lawyers
are set,
The judges are ranged, a kertible show.”
—The Beggar's Opera.
Such, indeed, are the lawyers, ‘‘a
terrible show,’”’ but they have an
amazingly different concepti8n ot themselves. Probably the continual dependence of the public upon their
caprice for the last few hundred years
has given them this good conceit of
themselves, but we often wonder it it is
justifiable. At any rate they have not
attained such a hold over us that they
are very nearly indispensable. A poor
layman who attempts to remonstrate
with them finds himself enveloped
to his’ chin in technicalities and checkmated’ at every turn by their jargon.
That this state of affairs may continue,

 
  
 
   
   
  

They fit....

" EATON'S Sécond Floor

‘ON rie |

with a suggestion for a walk and, while

opportunity for culture and learning,
while their parents, in many cases,
inconvenience themselves and make
sacrifices that they stay here.

Perhaps the only sclution would be

 

Prospects

For Hockey
Team Good

The initial hockey practice was held
at the Forum last Friday with about
twenty turning out. Under the direction of Coach Potter Oyler the boys
went through a light work-out, consisting mostly of shooting and passing.

Practices are now being held regulnrly three times a week, on Tues. Thurs.
and Friday. Transportation by bus
has been arranged by Herbie Grant,
the manager and Tiger MacKasey, the
assistant manager.

Lots of competition for the position
of goalie is being provided. Bob Begg,
Vie Kyte, Jim Pistone and Bill Scott
have turned out for this position. - For
the rear guard positions Doug Bent,
Bruce Fergusson, Jim Crosby, Hal
Connor and Menzie are among those
favored. Bent is pretty well sure of a
position on account of his all round ability.

Among those showing up well for the
forwards, are Cappy Cook, Biscay Ellis,
Bob Stanfield, Eddie Cohen, Ed. Stewart, Art Smith, Russell Bryant, Jack
Buckley, Harold Flynn, Bob Donohue,
Sandy MacPherson and Roger Rowley.

Most of the squad are showing fine
form, skating fast, and should be in
good condition for the league opener in
about three weeks. Mr. Stirling is
acting as physical advisor and Fred
‘“Red’”’ Payne as trainer,

 

so a prominent Dal. professor has
intimated, lawyers set apart certain
of their numbers whom they support
to the legislature that these may keep
the laws and bills sufficiently complicated as to require legn] interpretation.
The charge they make for such services is almost unbelievable. As Josh
Billings says, ‘‘Going to 1aw is tike
skinning a new milch cow for the hide
and giving the meat to the lawyers.”’
As someone else remarked, law is like
physics, they who take least of it are
best off. Even the methods used by
the lawyers are laughable; they are
the most dogmatic of men.

 

An Authentic Photo

 

 

The above photograph isthe leading man of H. G. Wells’ sensationally fantastic mystery “INVISIBLE
MAN’’ as you see him on screen at
the CAPITOL THEATRE, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday.

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per Ib
FLAT PIECES 7c. per Ib.

Minimum charge $1.50 or indi
vidual parcels not large enough
for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300
Halifax Steam Laundry

 

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limite :
Wholesale Fruit a Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

KEY AND BASKETBALL SQUADS PREPARE
SPORT

 

Coaches Tigers

Athletics and

Fraternities —

 

 

There have always been at Dalhousie
some students who claim that the college fraternities control athletic government and the varsity teams them
selves. Whether or not this situation
existed in the past is doubtful but it
does not exist at the present time.
Sports are controlled by the D. A.
A. C. which body is responsible to the
Students’ Council. Every male student has the right to voice his opinion
on any action taken by the D. A. A.C.
but only a few take Advantage of it.
At the three meetings that the writer
has attended as few as twenty and not
more than fifty have attended. In
spite of this deplorable lack of interest
someone always disputes the clubs decision. Added to this there is the ever
present claim of the more radical studes
that non-fraternity men don’t get a
square deal in varsity competition. A
good argument supporting this claim
has never been discovered. The chief
grounds for complaint seem to be that a
vast majority of Dalhousie’s athletes
are fraternity men. Quite true
quite natural. A great many of Dal
and

housie’s best students are also fraternity
men. Scholastic and athletic individuals who are also good fellows are immediately grabbed off by fraternities.
They would become
tain teams anyway, fraternity man or
otherwise. Around three hundred of
the male portion of the student body
belong to some fraternity so it is quite |
natural that many of them would distinguish themselves in athletics.

members of ce1
Take this year’s football team for} C. A.30,N.W.A. R.C, 10.

example. Of the fifteen men on the
senior line-up eleven were fraternity
men but each and every man betterd
stiff competition to land a berth. Coach
McCarthy was in complete charge of
selecting the players and it was done
fairly and solely on the player’s merits.
Asa matter of fact the coach has only a
hazy idea at the most of what a fraternity is. Ot.the eight men who will
compose this year’s basketball team
probably five are traternity men. And
so it goes. Dalhousie'’s big shots in
athletics merely happen to be members
of some fraternity or another.

As for the various managers they are
selected by application to the Students’
Council and there exists no such thing
as a certain fraternity pushing a man
into a managerial or player’s position.
I haven't put forth any arguments.
merely facts, but anyone who wishes
to ‘voice an opinion on the question

of the Gazette.

 

 

ike Baane
POTTER OYLER

 

Dal Team Wins
City Swim Title

The natators of the newly formed
Dalhousie Swimming Club splashed
through the Y. M. C. A. pool to the
City Senior Championship early in
December over the Y. M. C. A. and
N. W. A. C. Winning their first
meet with no practice whatsoever shows
the possibilities-of this new organizatior whose executive offices are held by
George Murphy, Hal Connor, and Ian
McKeigan. The scores of the meet
| held under the auspices of Bill Lee, Y
physical director, were Dal 45, Y. M.
It would
be worth while to have an intercollegiate meet between Acadia and Dal in
the spring after the fine showing of the
local collegians. Led by Leo Simmonds
John Foster, Len Kitz, and Bob Dorman, the Dal swimmers triumphed
easily over the best of opposition. The

 

R,

other members of the team were George
and A.

Murphy, Hamilton Gosse,

Grant.

 

Successful

(Continued from page 1)

who was with us at the beginning of the
year, and to Rev. J. Norrie Anderson
and
Mention
must be made of the excellent hospi
who contributed much time

thought to the conference.

tality at Pine Hill,

The conference was a success in every
phase and all delegates were indeed

should drop a line to the sports editor| victims of that potént poison that

figures so prominently in their song.

 

DR. JOHN STEWART.

(in loving remembrance of some words of cheer he once gave me)

O weep no tears because, my journey o’er,

I live no longer through the chequered years;

Remember, grief shall dim my eyes no more,
And weep no tears.

Lay me at rest in some untroubled place

Where God in nature is made manifest ;

Then lifting your eyes to the beauty of His face,
Leave me at rest.

And mourn me not at all; yet this I claim—
When old friends meet together be your thought
Awhile of me and say again my name;

But mourn me not.

And I shall know that I still have a part

In all life’s glad endeavor if you go

To each day’s duties with a joyful heart
Yea, I shall know.

 

  

CASINO

SATURDAY—MONDAY
TUESDAY
January 13-15-16

SLIM
SUMMERVILLE

ZASU PITTS

“Love Honor

and Oh Baby”

      
   
    

SS
ee,

  
     
  
    

  

**The Halifax Season officially
over but the Merrymaking isn’t”’
Our tune masters are ready with
the latest hits. Nauglers Orchestra.

CALL JERRY L9238

       

 

M. A. B. (’26).

GARRICK

“THE KENNEL
MURDER CASE”

—with—
WILLIAM POWELL
MON. TUES.

“WALLS of GOLD”

—with—
SALLYEILERS |
NORMAN FOSTER

 

 

 

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST

Y.M.C. A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well 7
See Wallace.’’

NN

  

pfs i ARS A llth, 1934

 

COMMENT

In the past term this column received a great deal of criticismso much
so that the writer has made a new
resolution. It will be the aim from
now on not to give so much destructive
criticism. I thank you.

Basketball fans and fanettes will be
glad to hear that Bord Stoddard, flash
of last year’s team has again turned
out. Under the watchful eye of Coach
Jack Thomas the squad is rapidly
rounding into shape.

The Hockey Squad are working out
regularly three times a week and
should present before long a well Oyled
machine. (Thanks Harold).

‘““Mac’’ MacCarthy (Coach to you)
recently established a record by taking
a dip in the Arm with the Thermometer
at. 10° below zero. ‘‘Mac” isa valued
member of the Polar Bear Club.

Interfaculty Hockey and Softball
are scheduled to start right away with
the ‘‘Tiger’’ MacKasey coached squad
heavy favorites to repeat in Hockey
and the Artsmen conceded the title in
Softball.

Mt. A. student recongratulations in the
holidays on winning the Rhodes Scholarship for New Brunswick. Norm is
well known here having competed in
the Maritime Interschol. Track Meet
for several years.

Norm Laidlaw,
ceived many

 

Everyman’s Now

(Continued from page 1)
in second hand stores. Dents has
sought to remedy this condition. and
in doing so, have given opportunities
to present students not available to
those of past decades. For instance
again quoting Pres. Stanley, DeFoe’s
Travels Through England, in the
Everyman Set and only recently republished, shows that the general conception of the Industrial Revolution, as
expressed in many economic texts, is
wrong. Pres, Stanley thinks that a
student, in stumbling upon this book
would never again believe what his
professors and texts teil him and
thereby get more from it than from
all the rest of his stay at college,

Of further interest to book-loving
students, is the reduction to $1.00 of
the fee to the Book Club (in the gymnasium). Last year many students
paid $3.00 to secure reading privileges
in the best books published in the past
12 months. The fee was cut “to a
nominal figure to encourage a larger
membership,”’

As Carlyle has said, ‘‘The true university these days is a collection of
books,”

ee es

NOTICE.

There will be a meeting of the Interfaculty Hockey Managers in Mr. Stiring’s Office at 12 noon on Saturday.
As the League will get underway
shortly all the managers should be on

hand,

 

   

Halifax Transfer

PHONE B,7138

 
   

 

———————

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls.

B 6070

 

 

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L 2331

Student Laundry at 20%
Discount
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for complete Suit or Overcoat.

    
     
      

 
