 

  
 
 
   
   
    
    
    
    
      
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
    
   
   
   
  
     
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
  

 

' ¥
4,
ve

= sma the largest attended |

Re

“Should Canada Pledge
2 rself taMaintairs Peace by Force?”
William Jost, senior law student, acte d

| Py: eye aschairman. Those who debated on the
2sol ution were Bruce Ferguson, Ron
ald Copp, Edith Blair, Edward Arab,|
a esis, Harold Wright, Staff Tanton, Winni
» fred Scott, Robert McFarlane and Wal-|

on the request of the students,
be Bek, Professor of Political Science ceed the present dangerotis

tria asa wacwiins which could draw the
rest of Europe into a disastrous con, flict, Dr. McKay declared that the world
= had passed through one of the most

dangerous weeks since the Armistice.
Na ieet aay explained that because of geograph
: features and the almost mad desire
> for security France, the Little Entente,
_ Germany and Italy were directly conPe cerned and quite willing to fight over
the: independence of Austria.

a Donald Archibald commenced the
Bk Forum by declaring that Canada’s
position in the League had always been
; e of half hearted support because of
overwhelming desire to preserve
re lations \ with the United States

eee

Pa Pafvason Siaecet the reolution declaring that the British
Empire was no longer able to protect
' itself. Harrison Cleveland contended
r =f kde system of world force was merely
. the masquerade of alliances. Harold
. Wright agreed with him and advocated
eek, “instead of force rather a policy of pape ‘ath _ cific resistance. Edward Arab contested this point, illustrating the case
of China and Africa as the consequences
ef a lack of proper force. He believed
Bisse only Solution lay in the establish‘ment of a world police force. Staff
_ Tanton disagreed by declaring every
ody would want to be the policeman.

Miss Edith Blair declared economics
causes wars and then illustrated how
it would be impossible for Canada to

- protect herself.
« re a - Ronald Copp disagreed with the
he e tiaey of Mr. Cleveland contending
_. that it was impossible to put into prac: Sia tien and citing the example of Poland.
Miss Winnifred Scott declared that

Pe ie acaia and the Empire must set the
example.
_ Robert McFarlane favored Canada's
4 withdrawal from the League and EuroEse pean affairs. The League had failed
age apathy joining it Canada placed herae self in a precarious position if war
i ee “ekould break out in Europe. Walter
rie a - Mutch disagreed. He pointed out
j. ithat the League was necessary for

world | peace and it was up to Canaa
te mappstt it to the utmost.

H a Pel oe
anne saa *
pl Freshmen Win
. _ Bennett Shield
pi, “

er iahoré a’ tr and enthusiastic audince the Bennett Shield Debate series
was culiminated by the victory of the
reshmen over the Juniors in the final
ate held in Room 3, Arts Bldg., on
Feb. 20. The Freshmen class,
sented by Mr. Eric Mercer and
Margaret Drummie upheld the
ve cf the resolution ‘Resolved
ountry: Life Offers Greater Oppene for “Happiness than City

 
    

   
 

fer

    
    
   
  
 

Fite

   
    
 

ee

oS

ms

   
     
  

‘ Ee
_— Pp

a ee.

   

as

   
   
  
   
  
    

=

 
 

  

  
   
  
  
  
  
   

 

 

4 A e

ai tt

 

-__—

 

 

    
    

'

   

ee

¥
= x on
; >

 

*
My

Z ; gk “a

ua

 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

en the- mative

 
   
 

 

 

 

   

| which will really appeal to the student | half times the number of representabody.

   

Howard Oxley,
iffen. pee you, girls!)

 

J) Munro ON Will
Be Celebrated

- The Stgifetita ea Coie are working
out the final seers of the Munro Day
‘program. — The Student's Council Elections will

The next issue of the Gazette will| b¢ held on Tuesday, March 6th.
earry full details. Anattemptis being] Nominations of candidates from the
|made to provide a series of events| faculties must be at least one and cne
In order that the day may be aj tives to be elected and must be in the
success every student is requested to} hands of the Secretary-Treasurer_ of
cooperate with the various workers. ap- the Student’s Council not later than
pointed by the council, if this i is done | Tuesday, February 27th.

another highly successful day will
result.

Plat Teams Will

The number of representatives to
which the various faculties are entitled
are as follows:

re

 

Debate Tomorrow) Canadian Historians Will

 

 

Two Dalhousie teams will debate here
tomorrow night against representatives
of other universities. A girls team,
led by Beth Atherton and including
Phyllis Burns and Edith Blair will| _ Shortly before the close of the Canmeet a team from Acadia, upholding | adian Authors’ visit to Great Britain
the subject ‘That Woman Suffrage is | last summer, a group of those members
Justified.” Acadia will be represented of the party especially interested in
by Margaret Leonard, leader, Enid historical studies held a private meetCreed and Latira Payzant. The de- ing at which it was suggested that a
bate will be held in the gymnasium at somewhat similar visit—mutatis mueight o'clock and the visitors will be tandis—of Canadians engaged in hisserved a banquet later. torical study would be highly desirable.

A men’s team sponsored by Sodales Mr. Howard Angtis Kennedy was

will represent the college in the inter- asked to take the matter up with the
collegiate series against King’s on the authorities concerned, on both sides of

The team, composed of|the Atlantic. As honorary secretary

Make Tour

same night.

Brace Ferguson, leader, Ronald Copp of the Canadian Authors’ Association

and H. Sutherland will support the he had organized the very successful

|resolution “That Canada Needs a tour then closing, and his personal conjoeste Ke nection with historical work was well

ates known through his ‘Story of the Em| Double Dribble

pire’’ series, his ‘‘New Canada & The
Dalhousie’s  eeeewkotiiae victory

 

The New Canadians,” and ‘‘The Book
of the West.”
The researches and writings of Can
 

 

‘ower Acadia at Woifville on Feb. 13, adian historians are greatly valued

put the Tigers in undisputed teader- | OY°T°4S: andthe project was. warmly

ship of the City League. Only twe, ‘approved by_ historical scholars in
games left to con:plete the schedule, | Eagland and Scotland. They were
both of which are to be played at Stud- joined by others interested in our

country, with the result that the following committee of welcome was
speedily formed:

Dr. H. F. Biggar, of the Canadian
Archives, Record Office, London.

Sir George McLaren Brown, K.B. E.

ley, and the Tigers should be Provincial Champs. After all, they have
suffered only one defeat cn the home
court in two years and that game went
two overtime periods,

Highlights of the Dal-Acadia game:

Captain Charlie Anderson pulled off} _ Col. John Buchan, C. hs, M.f.,
a spectacular stunt when, with Dal Oxford.
trailing 10-3, he dropped three in a row pie Col. A. Hamilton Gault, D.S.0O.,

from center floor.
The all-round playing cf By Arm-| Walter J. Harte,
strong, Acadia forward, wno sank 12 Historical Association.
counters for his team. Prot. R. B. Mowat, M. A., Dept. of
The sensational shooting of Bernie| History, University of Bristol.
Ralston who rang up 14 points in a| Prof. F. M. Pawicke, F.B.A., Presibrilliant return to form. dent of the Royal Historical Saclety:
Coach Osborne of Acadia must have | Geo. E ilcher, Secretary of the Royal
felt sick when Dal sank three consec-| Empire Society.
uative baskets using one of his favorite} Prof. A. F. Pollard, Dirctor of the
side line plays (unconsciously of course!) Institute of Historical Research,
Mit Musgrave did the scoring. The Rt. Hon. Lord Strathcona.
Incidentally, I have seen Mit play Prof. Basil Williams, Dept. of Hisall his senior games since he crashed | tory, Edinburgh University. é;
into big time company and he has al-- Chairman, Sir Archibald Weigall,
ways turned in stellar performances K,.C.M.G., Royal Empire Society.
but Mit played the outstanding game} Hon. Sec., Mrs.,Lionel Barrett, Cromof his career at Acadia. er teat The Park, Highgate, London,
Dependable Don Bauld did the usual N.
thing by breaking up Acadia scoring nes much consideration, a pro-|
plays and earning 11 points for his| 8ramme has been drawn up which seems
own team. to offer an exceptionally valuable opThere was around 400 at the game.| portunity to our historical students,
The gym was packed and most of the bringing them into close touch with
Acadia faculty, including President Pa- leading historical students of the Old
terson were there. Country, and enabling them to visit
Three ex-Acadia boys were on the| under such authoritative guidance,
Dal squad which administered the 47-| many places and collections of particu29 trouncing to Acadia. lar interest to them.
The Tigers presented a snappy hard- Prof. Duncan McArthur, of Queen's
fighting outfit that worked with smooth | University, Kingston, President of the
precision and refused to be beaten.| Canadian Historical Association, exCoach Osborne admitted that, and Cap- presses warm approval of the plan.
tain Johnny Wilson, former St. John| Writing to Mr. Kennedy on Jan, 24,
Trojan, asserted that the Tigers pre-| he says:
sent the best team he has ever seen in “The programme is most attractive.
Nova Scotia. The places mentioned in the itinerary
‘We should mention that Acadia] are all of the deepest historical interest.
threatened all the way and it was only| Those who have already experienced
after a tough scrap that Dal was able| the hospitality of the British historians
to draw away in thé final stages. can pay tribute to its glowing warmth
The hospitality shown to the manager | and thorough genuineness.
and three players was of the best.| ‘‘Canadians who may be able to visit
‘Britain this summer should have no
hesitation in associating themselves

Chairman of the

Saeenpees on pee 4)

Official odes Pablication at Dalhousie University —

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 22nd.

Student Council Elections
Will Be Held March 6

 

 

 

1934,

—

 

 

Coming Events

Of The Week

Arts & Science:
~ Senior Class (’35)—2, (1 to be a girl) Thurs. Feb. 22—Senior Basketball,

Junior Class (’86)—2, (1 to bea girl) Dalhousie vs. Wanderers.
: Intermediate Basketball

Sophomore Class (37) :... 1 ;

Freshman Representative. ..... 1 Dalhousie vs. Wanderers.
Commerce Society. .......... 1 Dal Gym. 8.15
Engineering Society. ......... ~ Thurs. Fab. 22-—Ciass ‘34 Meeting.

B Room 3 noon. Debate: DalWSCC et nee Rd 2 h «Coed Aeadta Coad

ousie Coeds vs. Acadia Coeds.
Law AE Schaerer a rane are cx dice a 1 sé Resolved That Woman Suffrage f
PICMOMRCE SY youd ace ale 7 aise a ita es's = Justified.”
7

Wed. Feb. 28—Delta Gamma Dance
Nova Scotian.

Wed. Feb. 28—Boxing & Wrestling
Workout. Lower Gym. 8.15.

 

of England |

Spring Agai
gain
with your project. It will provide un- —_—_—
equalled facilities for visiting most interesting sites and for the most triend- Spring is just around the corner.
ly association with scholars in Britain} The ground-hog, the pussy willows, the
who share an interest in things histori-: wild things in the woods have all cast
cal. . their vote in favour of an early spring
‘“[ have no hesitation in commending | and a beautiful summer. It does not
the project to Canadian scholars in-| do to be too cynical about these porterested in the field of history.”’ tents; it would almost behoove us to
Mr. Lawrence J. Burpee, Chairman; hang them to our hearts and believe in
of the Management Committee, Dr. them. Winter is really very fine.
Gustave Lanctot, French Secretary and| This year everything has been white
Editor, and Mr. Norman Fee, Secre-| and the sun has shone and the snow has
tary-Treasurer of the Association, have| sparkled. At times the world has
endorsed the President's letter. looked beautiful this winter. But the
The party will sail from Quebec in| concommitants have not been so beauthe Canadian Pacific liner ‘‘Empress|tiful. The cruel probby ice resting
of Australia’ on Thursday June 21 and | under its deceitful blanket of snow has
land on the 27th at Southampton.| not been kindly. The white blanket
Thereturn steamer, ‘‘Duchess of Athol” | has heaped itself on sidewalk and street
leaves Greenock on July 21 and ar-|in a fleecy, playful ‘manner defying
rives in Montreal on the 28th. The}human kind to escape pneumonia.
inclusive cost is $132.00. Stinging winds have rushed round the
Details of the itinerary, and other| corners of large buidings in an endeavor
information, are to be had by writing | to stay the progress of any unfortunate.
to Mr. H. A. Kennedy, P. O. Box 1424,| There is more than one kind of courage.
Montreal. Here we can only give the| Every time a human being closes the
briefest outline. door on a warm steamy atmosphere and
After a circuit including Romsey | leaves a glowing fire to go to his duty
Abbey, Winchester, Salisbury, Old| he should strike a pose and recite.
Sarum, Stonehenge & Lord Pembroke’s| ‘‘We are not now that strength which
Elizabethan Wilton House, the motor-| in old days
ing route goes through Guildford &| Moved earth and heaven:
Ashdown Forest to Hastings, Battle| we are, we are;
Abbey, Senlac Field, Bodiam Castle,| One equal temper of heroic hearts,
and the Cinque Ports;—thence to Can-| Made weak by time and fate, but strong

= ‘insitieiaepanniiaiiinsiiceemmemntaia EE + <a

that which

 

terbury, (for Sunday), Knole House at in will
Sevenoaks, Wolfe’s home at Wester-| To strive, to seek, to fend, and not to}
ham, and so to London. yield.”

The London programme includes a
reception by the Royal Historical Society, and a conference, the first of four
during the tour, at the Institute of Historical Research; besides visits to the
Tower, British Museum, Westminster
Abbey, Houses of Parliament, Record
Office Museum, the Temple, London
Museum, etc. One day is devoted to
St. Alban’s (the Roman Verulamium),
Barnet battlefield, and Lord Salisbury’s
Hatfield House, another to Windsor
Castle with Hampton Court Palace,
Runnymede, and Ham House.

The second conference, arranged by
Prof. R. Coupland, will be held during
a stay of two days in Oxford; the third
(after a visit to Bath) at the University
of Bristol, where also the Lord Mayor
gives a reception after a luncheon with
the Guild of Merchant Adventurers.
Then follow visits to Cheddar Gorge
& Caves, Wells & Gloucester Cathedrals
and so, through the Cotswold Hills, to
Stratsford-on-Avon, Warwick Castle
& Kenilworth.

A day at Chester and evening at
Windermere are followed by a drive
over the Pennine Range to Hexham
(Abbey), and along the Roman Wall
with Professor Morison and his excavators of ancient forts. In Edinburgh,
besides the conference arranged by Professor Basil Williams with the Scottish
Historical Association, and a luncheon
with the Lord Provost, there will be a
reception at the University; with an
excusrsion to Stirling Cast le and Ban
Then he will not have to go to his duty.
He will be frozen.

But the unkindest cut of all is the
occasional ordinary day that is given
us to rejoice in. The wind drops, the
sun is bright and there are dripping
sounds at the corners of houses. The
smoke rises from the railway cutting
in lazy puffs and dissolves magically
in the blue sky. Some people shovel
their sidewalks and others in kindly
manner sprinkle ashes on the treacherous ice. It is what is known as a
“beautiful day.”’ Isn't it a lovely day—
A wonderful day out, eh? This kind
of weather suits you- There is a kind
of modest pride in the air as if we made
the day. Itissoon over. Within the
next few hours the local dailies carry
the headlines they preserve for such occasions, ‘‘King Winter Grips the City
in an Icy Grasp,” and so on.

And so I say why not accept the prophecies of. an early spring? There is
yettime. We canot reasonably expect
the spring in February, but we can look
forward. We can carry spring in our
hearts. Wecanhope. Otherwise how
shall we spur our flagging spirits? lf
we do not believe in the little ground
hog, (dear ground hog for not seeing
your shadow!) in the pussy willows, in
the wild things in the woods, we are apt
to grow desperate. Wemay complain
of the hard winter we’re having. We
may even lose our ideals. This is a
frightening thought. But there is a
thought more frightening to me. The
nockburn next day. Glasgowis finally | public may not have the advantage of
reached by an excursion through the| reading this article. It may not be
Trossachs, Lock Katrine and Loch| printed. Head up, shoulders squared
Lomond. —spring is just around the corner!

SS eepennnnsnnsesinnnssese-ep
SSS
Se

 

eT
ee

 

   
   
   
 
  

 

No. 17

Changes Will
Be Made In
Year Book

 

 

Pharos, long-dormant year book of
Dalhousie, has risen like a Phoenix
from its ashes and soon will spread its
wings and fly to the printers. Repeated mysterious phone calls to graduates
urging them to patronize the photographers, canvassers with contracts
for the laggards to sign, and mail boxes
filled with questionaires have at last
brought home to many that there really is a Year Book numbered among
Dal activities, one of the many requiring hearty support by all.

It is planned this year to use an in.
expensive binding and print five hun| dred copies to sell at one dollar: over
four hundred of which have already
been subscribed for. Several changes
will be made in the contents, perhaps
the most radical being the elimination
of any mention of Herbie Ste vurt and
his jokes. Other changes inc‘ude the
doing away with trite critiques, a large
section devoted to features of general
interest, and the inclusion of a frontpiece in colour of the college crest,
Aerial views of the college have been
obtained and these will replace the old
familiar views of the Arts Buildings
when the flowers bloom in the Spring.

The art work, the finest to ever appear in Pharos is about completed, the
features numbering about twelve pages
are well under way, and the critiques
are being handled this week. Pharos
will make its bow the first of April, and
to insure this all are asked to fill out
the questionaires immediately and
those who have not done so to have
their pictures taken before the end of
the week. The support given it this
year will determine whether or not it
will remain as a part of college life so
all are asked to labour in its behalf.

 

Final Lecture Of
Series Postponed

Further word has been received from
Principal Fyfe, who was to nave given
the concluding lecture in the Dalhousie series. As it is still uncertain when
Principal Fyfe will be able to leave
home the lecture is indefinitely postponed.

  
   

 

  
    
 

Dal vs Acadia
For Hockey Title

Dalhousie Tigers will play a twogame home and home series with
Acadia for the Intercollegiate hockey
championship of Nova Scotia and the
right to meet the New Brunswick
champions tor the maritime title.

Acadia, by virtue of defeating St.
F, X. Wednesday night 4 to 3, qualified to meet Dalhousie in the finals.
Acadia has the stronegt team in many
years, and the Tigers will have to play
heads-up hockey to win.

The two-game series will likely be
played next week, the dates not having been arranged as yet.

St. Andrew's were hosts to the College badminton team on Thursday,
February 15. Many purely triendlv
games were played after the schedule
sets were won by St. Andrew’s’ Refreshments were served, completing a
pleasant evening.

 

     
   

 

 
  
   

  
       
 
   
   

apt W. H. JOST, B. A.
; B, 96 , B. 2543.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

The Innocent
Bystander

   
   

 
  

Comment

Since Authority is bent on keeping
igirls at home, why do they not first
improve the home? The new dieti
A topic of general interest among cian has done wonders, we admit, but
Canadian Universities is the present | Still more could be done in the way of
scheme of Inter-University Radio De-| xing up the reception room. We rebates.’ These have been N pronounced ferto the parlour. At the present time

Radio Debates.

 

|A Chancellor for Dalhousie

February 22nd. 1984

?

 

 

>

Of the nature and working of the

Dalhousie constitution, of the offices ,
and duties—not to speak of the trials’
and tribulations—of the various Uni-,
versity boards, committees, function- |
versity on the one hand and the public

aries and dignitaries, ninety-nine per
cent of the student body are woefully

He is the official head of the institution,
He is not directly concerned with internal management,that being the affair of the permanent staff. He acts
as the formal link between the Uni
and State on the other. It is not dif
ignorant. True, the student comes) ficult to perceive that a distinguished

into contact with certain phases of
University organization. He is periodically reminded of his relations to the
formal academic side, and is constrain
success through Canada and they have | @nyone walking in and getting the in-|ed year by year to devote some atten
     

. om e Associates.

: oa : Freeman Stewart. Borden Stoddard.

a ae David R. Allan. J. L. Dubinsky.

Sete Tr Frank Goudge. C. W. Burchell.
et ;

a ey NEWS DEPARTMENT.

_ * gpITOR—HARRY SUTHERLAND, B5487.

he * Associates: Douglas Crease, James MacIntosh.

mee , Arthur Merkel. }
mee tie: . SPORTS
Seis y EDITOR—TED CREASE, B5737.
ae Associates: Donald P. Cameron,
gees Ruth Skaling.
Bat GIRLS EDITOR: MARTHA KENISTON.
See Associates: Mary Simmonds. :
ie i. Merle Purtill.
ie aes os BUSINESS DEPARTMENT.

“ae , Manager Circulation Assistant Manager
fe > DAVID. H. HOLLAND. C.R.MACDONALD. HOWARD C. OXLEY, B.A.
ape "BB 2548 B. 2543
rr e i —

MUNRO DAY.

Ps

ee er

of the extensive Munro Day celebration of last year. The
~ announcement will probably be received with mixed feelings,
for last year the sentiment was expressed that while the Day was

Oi

lt Munro Day is a valuable institution, which in our opinion it is,
it is certainly incumbent upon the committee in charge to refrain
from including on their program any events which may scare people
away. We suggest that so far as possible there be ease of ingress
and egress, that no one having entered may be haunted by the
thought that he 1s trapped to stay there for some hours. We suggest that, again as far as possible, the intermissions in any Glee
‘Club show be cut short. Moreover we suggest to the producers
of such show that no efforts of theirs will receive their full measure
of appreciation if the audience is kept for too long a time on the
uncomfortable chairs of the Gymnasium. Asa final suggestion we
advocate the elimination of those neat little speeches of campus
executives anent the duties of their offices. These latter, we believe, could more effectively be presented through other channels.

DIPLOMA FEES.

 

4

 

   

=r i
ae

} 4

he FE

gene

»
‘*
<—e,

Poetics representing the Law, Medical, and Dental

£%Societies is at present petitioning the University authorities

the matter, of the professional Diploma Fee. It is asked
~ that the Fee be reduced from its present high level and that some
alteration be made in the terms and manner of collection. The

_ present arrangement is a fee of Twenty dollars payable betore the

final examinations cf the candidate for a diploma, and returnable
only in the case of the candidate’s failure.

The Fee, as a Diploma fee, is obviously excessive. The cost
of sheepskin, printing, and engrossing cannot exceed three or four
dollars, which would leave the University a sul stantial margin on

| a fee one-quarter the size of the present one. Moreover the fee

_—__ Jevied for diplomas in other faculties is ten dollars, which looks like

| ; a discrimination against professional students. In truth the pres
‘

 

ent Fee is simply an added tax upon thestudent, masquerading
'-—~—~—s under the formal name ot a charge for diplomas. Now there is
4 nothing, apart from policy, to prevent the University from raising
its charges against the student. Theoretically the student has
freedom of contract and is not compelled to come to Dalhousie
if unwilling to pay the price. Of course this argument affords
little consolation to the student who finds the fees raised against
him in the middle of a several years course, and finds it highly
inconvenient to change hisschool. The circumstance that the con-—-—s tact is annual renders any claim the petitioning students may have
a5 against the University not a legal but a purely moral one.

We cannot but think it unfortunate that the University has
taken this roundabout method to tax professional students. At no
time of year could the payment of the extra charge be more un
| pleasant to the payer. After several years acquaintanceship with
Peete the University he finds that one of the last caresses of the Alma
Mater is the extortion from him of a fee patently excessive. In
2 this connexion arises the other point of the petition—the terms of
| payment. At present the candidate is given no option. He can‘ not write his exams until the Fee is paid. He is not permitted to
- decide whether at the moment a diploma is worth twenty dollars
to him.
The petition of the professional students is a reasonable one.
It is being presented in a sane and reasonable manner. i

|
ya v

os

I : The petitioners feel that a full appreciation of the student side of the case

 

ne __-will lead to some alteration in the existing arrangement.
Be:
U.K. C. Notes

 

Wee ae
Pls alte el

_ The recent masquerade given by the} battle, and in the other one equally as
Co-eds was a colorful as well most en-| ferocious, the Juniors were victorious
joyable affair. The variety and orig-| over the Sophs.
_ inality of the costumes was evidence |
of the pleasure that the dance provided
for the fifteen couples. Roy Phillips
and J. L. Crowe supplied the music.
- Miss Libba Hood and Staff Tanton
-_ received prizes for the best costumes.
The reception room, where the couples
danced, was decorated in Valentine
colours which added to the gaiety
shown all evening.

=the
i}
ve
*

eA
my,

eee
Pa.
A.

dle

=

The hard-working basketball team
of the College suffered two defeats this
week. As usual, they kept the score
fairly even until the seond half, when
the lack of proper coaching and substitutes becme visible. The Y team
defeated them on the Dal floor, and on
Saturday, in a hard fought game at the
Y the St. Andrews team finished with a
‘ 9 point lead.

_ Two more games of that fierce sport
-known as bhckshee basketbal were
ea played this weck. The tactics shown
defy description; there is no other sport
i pe” : quite as “all. -round” as this 0 nee The

ae a5 i

The Alumni Number of the King’s
College Record was published recently.
It contains a great deal of information
which is of interest to past and present

_ Grads. defeated the Freshmen in one

ie: a
ij ag f

. ~

 

“h ie is reported that the Council has decided upon a repetition;

extraordinarily good in spots there was entirely too much of it. Wine Whe idoa Saholas.

now reached the semi-final stage. The | evitable onceover from the occupant is
results of the forensic battles, which | immediately reminded of the old days
have been divided into groups, are as|@2d the line-up at Police Headquarters.
follows:— ' No magazines, no radio, no fire going
| In the Quebec-Maritime group the in the hearth, and a general lack of any
scoring is, — McGill University 30, Dal- form of amusement, so all are forced to
housie University 28, University of| ely on conversation alone (which is
New Brunswick 27, McGill University | carried on in chain gang tones) to pass
is the winner of this group. ' |thetime. Ifa fire were kept going, the
In the Ontario group the standing is.—| Chairs rearranged, and efforts in genUniversity of Western Ontario 34, Uni-|¢ral made to give the place a more
versity of Toronto 32, McMaster Uni- cheery atmosphere the girls would not
versity 31. The University of Western | have the competition they now have
Ontario has emerged as the winner of; With the town co-eds.
this section. While we are on the subject of the
| — The winners of’ these groups will bat- Hall, who were the five eligible men?
tle for the semi-finals, the better team Eligible from what standpoint. and
to take on the western section debat-} What qualities are the rest of us lacking?
ers. The series is being ronsored by There may be only five the Committee
the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Com- | of Award would marry, but there are
missions debating series in an endeavor five hundred they are only too willing
to find the supreme debating team| t© go out with.
which will be awarded the Intercol
legiate Championship. Still water may-run deep, but it doesn’ t

go anywhere.

A summer job seeker went down to
the Herald-Mail office the other day
and asked to see the Personnel Manager. Five minutes of waiting and
he was introduced to the editor of the
social column.

The Toronto Star recently came
forth with a blistering article in which
the Rhodes Scholars were accused of
being ‘pleasant Mediocrities.’’ This
naturally aroused the fervor of many a
Canadian Scholar to a high pitch so|
they concocted a rebuttle of a sort.| That well-known principle of econ
‘The Varsity on interviewing one -re- | OCS: the Law of Diminishing Returns
presentative was given the reply to the finds a splendid example in the case of
effect that ‘people seem to expect the phone booth at Kings’. The first
Rhodes Scholars to be a mixture of So-| time the collector came he found a
crates, Alexander the Great, Jesus pleasing number of nickels; the next
Christ, and Thomas Aquinas.” Other time he found pennies intermingled
former holders of the scholarship seem- with the nickels; the third trip his little
ed to share this view, that too much is satchel bore away a collection consistexpected of them. The general ad- ing in the main of buttons and foreign
mittal however was that the weakest | Coins of uncertain denomination, and
point in these awards is the assumption the last time all he got was a lot of tar

i that they have anything to do with a| Ut of the lock.
man’s final occupation. It can be
truly said, no doubt, that the purpose | - Furriers point out that the skin of rats
of Rhodes’ Will has been satisfactorily 4s absolutely valueless. Rats, however,
met by those persons now in Canada, find them very handy for keeping out the
who formerly held such scholarships. | “@°¢!:

The Star's accusation of the overemphasizing athletic qualifications was
vehemently denied, by a former Scholar The wolf at the door (whom our older
who thought that Canada was exempt readers will remember) has turned out
from this falt but that U.S. A. seemed |t® be a perfectly charming fellow.
to have a inclination in that direction, | So™etimes he came disguised asa policeAfter all perhaps there is some justifi- | ™") other times as a telegram colcation in calling Oxford and Cambridge lector, and sometimes in a very simple
contests, ‘Cambridge . versus the outfit such as a laundryman might
Rhodes Scholar.” wear, but every time we opened up we

found the Wolf there, teeth bared in a
baleful leer, pleased at his successful
deceit. Got so after a while we wouldn’
dare open the door. However, ever
since the time he came in to take potluck we have grown to like him, and

Meds Down |
| Frosh 39-24 now that times are better the poor old
wolf has had to write the story of his

Medicine went one step further to-| life as a nest egg for his old age, and
ward the Interfaculty Championship| next week we are publishing it.
by setting down the Freshmen in the
fastest and best game of the heague to
date.
The Meds started strong and rolled
up 23 points to the Freshmen’s 13 in
| the first period, but in the second the
Frosh managed to hold the Doctors
\toad point leatl. The final score was| The Editor,
1 39-24. Leo Green heaved in 20 points| Dalhousie Gazette.
for the winners and was the outstanding man on the floor. Edgar Stewart| From Prof. Mercer's letter [ underscored 13 for the yearlings. Medicine| Stand that mixed badminton is allowed
are as yet undefeated. at alltimes and “that students playing
FRESHMEN:—Gosse 4, Stewart 13,]| mixed badminton during the week will
Ross 4, Greenberg 1, Gardner 2. dréss as they would for Saturday afterMEDICI NE:—Epstein 7, Shandaloff| 00n mixed badminton.” [ also under8, Green 20, Christie 2, Schwarzappel,| Stand, I hope I am wrong, that the
Barkowitz 2. dress for men for Saturday afternoon
consists, in part, of white trousers.
Therefore, I conclude that all male
students, who cannot afford to,orfor any
other reason cannot obtain a pair of
white or cream trousers, are not allowed to play mixed badminton at any
time. Isthisfair? Does one’s ability

s e
With Acadia
to play badminton rest upon the ability

The Acadia co-eds will come to Hali-| to obtain white trousers? Does the
fax on Friday, February the 23rd to| color of one’s trousers affect the ability
debate with the Dalhousie girls. The} to play? As far as I can ascertain
subject will be “Resolved that Women’s} this serious flaw in the regulations biti
Suffrage is J ustified”” with Dalhousie} not been aired in the recent discussion
taking the affirmative. and I would be grateful for an explan
The debate will take place’in the Dal] ation as to why I am not allowed to
Gymat8p.m. Friday night, andthe] play badminton because I have no
judges will be Dr. Henry Munroe, white trousers.
Mr. Burchell and Mr. J. A. Walker.

President Stanley will preside.

 

 

More About

Badminton

 

Dal To Debate

Still hoping,
PERTINENCE.

 

 

—————

 

 

tion to University finances through the
medium of the Business Manager's
Office. Occasionally he rebels in a
mild way against the hand of authority,
usually in a bickering over the alleged
injustice of some petty regulation,
Some students go so far as to descant
upon the whys and wherefores of the
University in the abstract for the purpose of pointing out the defections of
the University in the concrete. Bevond these few incidents the thing we
call Dalhousie University is pretty
much of a mystery to the students
Perhaps the student should make it
his business to know something about
the institution of which he forms an
important part. At any rate the writer ventures to raise a question concerning the constitution, which he as one
of the poorly informed many, puts forth
as a naive student suggestion. He
hopes it will attract some informed attention.

Has anyone ever considered the introduction of a University Chancellor
into the Dalhousie scheme of things?
If so, has the idea become a dead issue,
or is there sufficient merit in it to commend it to the powers that be?

In the Universities of the Old
Country the office of Chancellor is an
outstanding feature. The incumbent
is invariably a person of eminence,
usually a man high in public service.

  
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
    
     

Announcing

Suits-
leading style

Harris

 

ES

 

D

Tailoredby Canada’s

orities of beautiful
and durable mater
ials at remarkably
reasonable prices.

man of affairs, that devoting part of his
time to a University, could render a
valuable service both to the institution
and to the community, which the institution itself serves and upon which
it depends. It may be that the result
can be attained without the creation of
a Chancellor, designated as such, but
it would appear that through the office
and the assumption of a measure of
formal responsibility by the office, the
precedent of the Old Country practice
could most effectively be followed.

The University Chancellor is no
stranger in this country, for the majority of Canadian Universities have
provision for a Chancellor in their
constitutions. All of the Western Universities have had chancellors since
their inceptions. The office likewise
exists at McGill, Varsity and Queen’s.
The duties of the office differ in some
respects in the several institutions, but
all subscribe to the pervading principle
of bringing intoactive participation and
University affairs an outstanding public figure.

Names such as Sir William Mulock,
Mr. E.W. Beatty and Mi. James Richardson, all of whom hold Chancellorships at the moment, illustrate the type
of man usually selected forthe position.
The offices.of Chancellor and President
or Principal do not conflict, but rather
support each other for the furtherance
of the purpose for which the university
There appears no reason to
believe’ that Universitv chancellors
have not performed their usual service
in Canadian colleges.

exists.

 

SUPERBLY ST YLED SPRING SUITS—BY SHANE’S

 

Our Spring

Opening

auth
 

Topcoats--All the latest styles in

s Tweeds-Camel Hair and
Superior English and Scotch Im

ports

 

Hats-
The Famous Brock at $5. 00

others by the same maker at—

$3.00 $3.50 $4.50

Shirts-
Arrow—Forsyth—Tooke, all the

Latest Patterns from these famous
makers —

Shane’s Mens Shop

THE STUDENT’S SHOP

30 Spring Garden Road

iscount of 10% to all Dalhousie Students

 

 
  

 

 
   
 
 
   
   
  
    
    
 

Piet arence

SIDNEY EARLE SM ITH.

Pee who know Dean Smith will
iate with what zest the writer of
ue havientute column approaches his
task. ‘'S. E. S.” is the mentally ena) -ereetic head of the Dalhousie Law
~ School, which he not so modestly but
firmly believes is the best law school

me in Canada at least. Possessed of a

; F
_ Ge, he is the originator of two expressions of which he is inordinately proud,
_ though for what reason no on can fath‘ One is “Mudhooks,”’ which he
- acquired at Osgoode and the other is
eeapeol but as they usually only
serve to mystify second and third year
law students the value of them is
P aachétal
~ The students find the Dean most
_ approachable, always agreeable, but
_ only moderately satisfactory, He has
a most comforting manner, and never
fails to commiserate with luckless students to the fullest degree. He always
+", agrees with what you say, at the same
time making mental reservations.
The student usually leaves him with a
bafiled feeling.

He is quite a figure it in ¥. M.’ C..A.
circles, but he discards their influence
entirely when he is lecturing. To his
credit be it said that he usually chooses
the proper time and place. He has
_ two great faults which his charges find
hard to forgive. He usually manages
to lecture at least five minutes past the
| _ regular period, all the other clocks,
_ except his own ticker, being wrong and

the gun fast when the bell rings. His
other failing lies in dictation, when he
asks a great many more questions than
he answers .

For all his genjal exterior, the Dean
has a quick temper and is sensative at
times, but is warm-hearted and would
not wilfully offend anvone. He usually comes off best in any verbal tilt with

everybody. except. Vince McDonald,
a oe ’ ‘and he enjoys even Vince’s wit. He
-— does not believe in half-way measures,
and his oft-repeated advice is “be
good or bad, but be one or the other,’
and he lives up to what he preaches.

 
  

 

NOTICE.

Graduates are asked to fill out the
‘questionaires now being sent out by

the Year Book and remail them as soon

as they can. All must be in by the
end of the week, and it would be ap
preciated if they are as complete as

possible, listing all athletics, societies,
campus organizations and so on that
- have been participated in.

 

     
 
  
    
   
    
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
   

College life.

4 ty conversation.

Beas from it.
Br
“wa at
Pe ot prove to be.
; " Z ho *
Sa

4 gaa NOTICE

Our efforts in disposing of bo| oks from Everymans’ Library
‘| have proven so successful that
we have decided to extend our
“3 service in this connection.
| Accordingly wh are now in a poan ‘ | sition to offer the Yome University Library. ° latter series
, 1 contains texts of particular inte‘rest to all students.

Sa _ [Dalhousie University

Ih
By,

t

tig

Pe

» Pa “fi 7 Pte ci _— i”
YY & a » t : % aye fr
ni Phen ee Ss tyeay (rn “. oe iZ nay , ni
aoe as ¥ <4. a <hn ae Py sa a ie | ™ vr
nh ee ie Bae) ee : ie, OF :
ae A eo Gy 7 :
ees =
“a ‘ t —
i
_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Sec naiiend fet Glee Club |

 

The Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:
Dear Sirs: !
I crave the facilities of your columns '
to comment on the following paragraph
in your issue of Feby, 8th.

“The Intelligentsia’’ have voiced their
disapproval of Glee Club. They would
like the students to present for their
amusement such outstanding successes as Shakespearian plays. But, on
the other hand, is the Glee Club for our
entertainment or for these ‘‘Intelligentsia’s?”’ It has mentioned the minstrel show as common, cheap, American vaudeville. My sentiments may
differ from yours but for a Glee Club
night, give me the minstrel show and
the light comedy.”

Surely the above is a ghastly commentary on the cultural poverty of our
educational system. A copy of it
should be enlarged, suitably framed
and placed in the private sanctum of
every high school and university teach
‘er in the province as a tragic reminder

of the hollowness of their pedagogy.
For I hold the writer in no great blame.
He is the child of circumstances. Il
remember also that when I was a student at Dalhousie, I entertained very
much the same sentiments. I would
have thought, however, that the vast
intellectual upheavals that have occurred in the last twenty-five years
might have created an improvement
in the attitude tothe thingsof the mind.
Apparently they have not.

University dramatics, I feel, should
serve to do more than provide enterment, though if they do not provide
entertainment they are of course barren. Butsurely plays that people have
enjoyed for centuries and still do cannot be entirely without that faculty.
I confessthat reading Shakespeares plays
is not one of my greatest delights, but
seeing them is a totally different kettle
of fish. On the stage they live and
glow. And lest it be thought that I
have particularly high-brow tastes let
me say that I yield to none in my enjoyment of the leg-shows, wise-cracks
and all too human vulgarities that are
provided nightly in our local movie
palaces.

But there should be, as I have indicated above, more to university dramatics than the mere entertainment ot
the audience, important as that is.

There is a value to be extracted from.

them by those who act in and stage the
productions. Itis not a negligible one.
Of late I have felt increasingly the pity
of the waste of young, vibrant enthusiasm that goes yearly into the production of dramatic material at Dalhousie
that is not worth the human effort.

And I must ery ‘‘Peccavi!”’ for alas I
have assisted in the debauchery. But

now, repentant and full of years, 1 take |

 

3 | Give The Home Folks A Treat

The folks back home take a keen interest in you and your
Nothing gives them greater pleasure than to hear
of your doings—in classes, in athletics, in clubs, in society

 

z% The best of letters are but monologues, gocd enough in
| their way, but not in the least comparable with your own chat
Why not call up the home folks occasionally by Long
Distance Telephone and give them the real pleasure of an almost face-to-face chat with you.
And moreover the virtue of such a call carries 1ts
own reward—your pleasure in hearing and talking with them.

They will get a real thrill

> You will be surprised how inexpensive such a pleasure will

_ |Maritime Telegraph & Telephoue
Company Limited

  
   
    
  
    
   
  
   
    
 
   
  
  

BIRKS=

Our Repair Departments - 
 

   
   
  
  
     
 

Watch and Jewelry - - offera
splendid service in restoring

timekeeping, or broken treasures

Expert workman at your ser-|
vice - - ask for quotation.

Henry Birks &Sons
Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax, N. S.

   
  
  
   
 
 
   

   
 

 

opportunity to make restitution by
bringing forward the following considerations.

A. It is possible for the most frivolous taste to satisfy itself in the lavish

 

ae

ST LS

PY. and

Abuse

 

variety of motion pictures that this| The Local Press.

city provides. Vary rarely can the
student see here one of the great classic plays that bulk so large in the heritage of our culture. This is certainly
true of Shakespere, the artist sas egal
our race has produced. Since therefore such plays are not produced here,
and since every intelligent young man
and woman should see at least one of
‘them, it would seem that the university
glee club is the logical unit to step into
the breach.

B. When Oxford and Cambridge
students produce plays they choose
the very best of the classics, Greek and
Elizabethan. The same istrue of many
American universities. Not only that
but there are thousands of high schools
all over the United States who every
year produce an outstanding play by
one of the very best playwrights.
Twenty five years ago American university glee clubs produced the sort of
thing that is now being produced at
Dalhousie. They don’t do it, any
more. Even the high schools don’t
doit. Even the girls’ finishing schools
don't do it!

C, A‘student comes to college because he wants to gain some insight
into the wurld’s culture, and to learn)
a technique for extending that gain
after he has left. If he does not come
with that desire he should not be there;
he is simply cluttering up the works,
putting extra work on already harassed teachers, and behaving generally
like a drone in the hive.

D. There is no more dynamic way |
of gaining an insight into the noblest
form that Anglo-Saxon culture has
taken than through such an intense
study as would be forced on every
member of the cast and workers in a
Shaksperian production. It is impossible to believe that even the least |
inspired of Nova Scotian minds could
remain insensitive to beauty even in
mouthing the great Bard's “‘jewels—|

that on the outstretched finger of alli

time sparkle forever.”

E. Finally, I believe that only those
are utterly damned who do not wish
to make the very best they can of their
lives. What hell is there low enough
fer the architect who, given all the material in the world, builds a house of
cardboard and tinsel—simply to please
a momentary whim? I believe that
most Dalhousie students give at least
hi. -service to the Christian ethos.” I
therefore commend to all who feel as
} your reporter a caretul reading of the
| twenty- -fifth chapter of Matthew, starting at the fourteenth verse.

Yours truly,
H. B. ATLEE.

 

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year

MUNRO DAY IS COMING LET’S CC CO-OPERATE

 

In the spring a young man’s
fancy - - But at this season of
the year the “music masters do
their but to make it true now

For Melody at its best

- CALL JERRY L-9238

 

  
    
   
  
   
   
 

  

IMPORTANT

Special Laundry
Prices For Students

WEARING APPAREL 18c. per lb
. FLAT PIECES 7c. per lb.

   
   

Minimum charge $1.50 or individual parcels not large enough
for minimum charge at list
prices less discount at 20%.

May We Serve You?
OUR PHONE NO. IS

L 2300

| “Citizen”

 

$$ —
SS S$

| It’s not the money,
| principle of the thing.

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINE ERING COU RSES

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Daihousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholaiships of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar or advise.

  
   
    
  
  
 
  
   
 
 

Probably we flatter the Halifax
by the above heading, yet
it does represent a section of the local
press, and may deserve the name,
Here we wish toexpress some student
resentment against a recent editorial
in the ‘‘Citizen.”’
from time to time directed criticism
against Pres. Stanley and has come to
regard it as more less its perogative,
but it has always been done with the
constantremembrace that he is our president and as such is worthy of respect.
For the ‘‘Citizen” to do so is distinctly
bad taste.
conditions here at Dalhousie nor of the
support that the students will give
their head against outside opinion.
What the President does in relation to
the students is news for them, but as
far as the outside press is concerned,
putting it frankly, it is none of their
business. The President of any university, because of his position, is
bound to come in for a certain amount
of criticism, especially from the students. But it is done with the same
spirit as one criticizes anything in the
college, one’s fraternity, or even one’s
own family, when an outsider does it,
it is immediately resented. The students as a whole stand solidly behind
President Stanley, what he does is in
their interests, and although they may
criticize some of his methods, they
realize his intentions. For a paper
like the “‘Citizen’’ to run a would-be
facetious editorial, which is in reality
ridiculous, arouses our indignation and
we would suggest that this paper restrict itself to its chosen field of depraved politics.

Medical Fee.

Passing on in our usual style and to
our usual field, we should like to raise
a voice against the authorities for collecting the medical fee from the fourth
and fifth year medical students. These
almost doctors, although obliged to
take a part in the examination of the
other students with no remuneration,
and who are in a position to receive
free medical attention. regardless of

‘ their connections with the college, must

pay the same as those for whom the
fee benefits—the non-medical student.
It may be that the medical student receives certain insurance rewards from
his fee, and we would not advocate
they pay none at all, But it would
seem only fair that they get, at least,
a reduction. This is an old theme.
but a source of irritation to the meds.
they say, but the

 

         

   
         
 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 
 

Special Attention To Students |

Either a clip off the old block or
we'll slave for your shave.

25c.

HIGH CLASS
HAIRCUTS

BERT BOWLBY

Over Buckleys Barrington St.

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
“" B.7376

Service
25c. Rate to Students

 

 

 
   
    
  
   
    
  
  

    
   
  
 

MacLeod, Baicom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

   
 

 

   
 

   

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

| several interests, I know,
| talk about them all the time.
-men with hobbies are as easily started!

  
 

Pine Hill

Peccadillos

ADVICE TO A SON.
(Continued. )

My dear Boy,

J really should write to you more often

Ve

A i cece tee ere

—there is nothing so splendid as an in
. * . - :
timate friendship between father and |

son. Of course, I realize that we are

This column has|of two different generations, but per
haps what I will tell you may be of
great benefit to you, although you do
not realize it now.
letter for the same reason that a man
leans over the rail of a ship on his first
sea-voyage—he is not interested in fish
culture, nor has he a grudge against

It understands nothing of | the ocean, but simply feels that he has

something he must give up.

You are now in your Junior year and |

probably in the midst of many social
affairs. It is these particularly that I

wish to speak of in this letter—I shall |

deal with the other phases of College
life later.

I believe that you are not lacking in
money, but that has its drawbacks.
A person who is a good spender can
never be certain who are his friends.
Let him experience a little reverse and
they disappear like raindrops in the
sand—only their marks remain. The
few who stick by him are likely to be
the ones he valued least.
ing the story that you're ‘‘broke’’ and
see how many friends you will have
left. Rotten apples are the easiest to
find; so worthless friendships are the
easiest to form. Don’t count your
friends by the number of people that
smoke your tobacco.

[n all your social attachments I want
youto keepclean. It's all right, when
conversation lags, to tell a risque story.
People enjoy nothing more than being
slightly shocked. It is said that the
most popular tea in any intimate group
is obscenity. Thisis quite true, as you
probably have found, but for Heaven’s
sake, boy, don’t do these things when
you are with strangers—it puts a bad
taste in the mouths of decent people!
Don't see the dirt in every situation
even if you know it’s there, and don’t
use suggestive language. The finest
thing a hog can think of is a trough full
of swilland some soft mud to liein and
sleep. These ambitions are easily attained and the hog enjoys himself,
If you want to be happy, cultivate
thoughts like the hog, but rementber,
to be physically pure and mentally corrupt is little better than no virtue at all.

Don't think that I do not want you
to be entertaining in your conversation—far from it. What I mean is,
don't be silly all the time. When you
open your mouth, say something.
Don’t start your mouth going and then
walk away and leave it. Light-headheaded fools are always welcome at
social gatherings because they never
make the rest of the company feel like
idiots. The man who eats the most is
not the fattest, neither is the one who
talks the most the wisest. You have
but don't
Most

as a skittish horse—just get the reins
puniee -r his tail and he’s away. When

I’m sending this |

Try spread
LS

 

    
 

ooo i,

te 7 * | ot
| dE ee ee ns Oe 7
y - . i

Page Three

     
  

  

GET YOUR
RAZOR, BLADES

|

@ Five Vea double edged
blades to fit any gillette-type
razor, for only one complete
set of Poker Hands! Many other
useful and attractive gifts for men
and women. Ask your dealer
for a copy of the latest list.

   
 

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Poker Hands are also packed with Turret
Pipe Tobacco and Turret Cigarette Tobacca

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Ltd.

 

NOTICE.

DEBATE—Friday Feb. £
Dal Gym.
SUBJECT—Resolved that Women’s
Suffrage is Justified.
Dalhousie Co-eds vs,

23rd, 8 p.m.

Acadia Co-eds.

they start to rant they're as tiresome
as a six-day bicycle race.

I've heard some chaps who can't say
a sentence without using a few oaths
here and there for emphasis.
who swears continually loses all the
value of his profahity. Please keep
in mind and save your cuss-words' for
really necessary occasions.

You've probably lent out money
in the past—and there esways ve
borrowers as long as you have any, but
when a man touches you for a loan, tell
him you're broke. It may bea lie and
he knowsit, but he can't say so without
admitting that you doubt his willingness or ability to repay.

There is nothing more admirable in
the abstract than truthfulness, but the
man who always insists on telling the
whole truth is as much of a nuisance as
a woman in a fishing party.

Scowl and frown every now and then,
for nothing has less value than the
smile of a man who always grins.

Try to get all you can out of the above
and in a week, or so I will talk to you
about women, the greatest paradox
in the universe, the things that we can
neither get along with or without, but
which are as necessary as food.

Your mother sends her love and says
she will write your sister next week as
usual. Have to take her on a shopping trip down town—how I love that!

From
DAD.

A man

 

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

  
  

Halifax Transfer

PHONE B,7138

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI
25c. Rate

On all Student calls,

B 6070

 

ae —

 
   

ee a a ee ee ee ee eee,

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 

  

HOME LAUNDRY

32-38 BILBY STREET L aint

Student Laundry at 20 9,
Discount
Dry Cleaning. $1.25 for complete Suit or Overcoat.

   
 

 

If it’s sporting goods, we can
supply it.

HARD CR AGGS Ware

BARRINGTON at GEORGE
Teleohoane B-6226

 

 

< —

 

    
  
       
    
 
   
      
   
    
   
    
     
   
       
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
       
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  

rr Two
» Basketball

‘During che: pak week the Dalhousie
Intermediates played three matches,

pool 69-35, and dropping a close one
to N.S. Tech 23-19 at Studley. ~The
peer). - latter was the only league fixture, the
ae - two. exhibition games being played at

3 re | Woltville and Liverpool, respectively.
~ Dalhousie started out fast to grab
an early lead and mainly through the
efforts of MacDonald, Sullivan, and
_ Stoddard,-led at half time 16-13. The
2 ~ Acadians literally swarmed around the
| pe ‘visitor’s basket but couldn't find the
-~  floop. For 15. minutes of the final
half Dal held their scant margin but

a _ with two well directed long shots.
The finalscore read 28-25. Wolgate
=
“Z
Fi

Priced At,
Pair

Z|

ey
Ae ee:
oe

aE

brogue.

to Acadia 28-25, trouncing Liver- |

Doug Ralston blasted Tigers hopes

was the mainstay of the Acadia out] D. Leaman 12, Killam2, M. Rawding 1
fit and shot 13 points. 4 Stoddard sank +e Rawding, R. Smith.

EATON’S

Visit EATON’S Men’s Wear Department
and see the New Spring Suits for Men

 

 

Men’s Rccitadords
6.00

See the display of Birkdale Oxfords in
EATON’S Shoe Department.
styles and lasts suitable for men and
young men in blucher, balmoral or
Of black or brown kid or calf
leather, sizes 6 to 11 in various fittings.
_ Eaton’ s Second Floor.

&T.

ee eee

alike number se Dal.

Tech presented a stronger team than
was expected last Thursday and, chielly due to the brilliant playing of Gordie
White, outplayed and outshot Dalhousie to earn a 23-19 decision and shove
the Cubs nearer to the cetlar position
of the City Intermediate League. The
Dal forwards were decidedly eff in
their shooting.

Last Friday the Cubs, supplemented
by three Interfaculty players and Don
Bauld of the varsity, journeyed to
Liverpool and handed the crack aggregation of that town a surprise, 59 to
35 drubbing. Reg Wigglesworth, big
gun of the South Shore squad, threw
in 20 points but Lorway and Bauld offset his accomplishment, by accounting for 34 markers between them.
The South Shore town is basketball
crazy andthe university outfit was given
a royal reception.

DALHOUSIE—Lorway 18, Bauld
16, C. Stoddard 6, Simmonds 9, McDonald 8, McLellan 2.

LIVERPOOL— Wigglesworth

(Continued from page 1.)

A lbeal sport scribe disagreed with
me when I picked Don Bauld as star
of the Wanderers-—-Dal game. Maybe
he was right—but Don in the four
league games has scored 56 points, an
average of 14 points per game. In
two exhibition games Don has rung up
26 points. Incidentally he taps the
City League scorers by a big margin.
Not bad, eh!

Medicine of the Interfaculty League
have a nice outht and should cap the
league but Theology and Law will offer lots of competition.

The Intermediates upset the dope
by ranting Liverpool in their own back
yard last Friday by a score of 59-35.

The game between Wanderers and
Dal seniors at Studley tonight should
provide same good ball. a ontrary to
opinion the game is not ‘‘in the bag”’
or the collegians. It will be a test of
condition with the Tigers slight favortes. On the occasion of the last meeting of the two teams the Reds won
28-27.

20,

 

 

 

And Young Men

They Offer Good
Style and Tailoring At Moderate
Prices

18.50 + 25.00

Young men or older men will
find models to suit them in the
range of new spring suits at
EATCN’S. Tailored on good |
fitting lines of smart tweed
and worsted materials or fine
serges, single or doubie breasted styles. If you are thinking
of buying anew suit, see these
first, we aresure you will find
one that will please you.

 

Eaton’s Main Floor.
Renown
Felt Hats
Priced At, 3 KO

Each

Of a good quality furfelt in new

shapes for Spring. In grey and

brown shades and snap, welt

or bound edge styles suitable

for men or young men. Sizes
a 63 to 73.

  

eee

ef

Eaton's Main Flocr

They offer

EATON

MAR

ee

Double Dribble

 

SPORT

:

 

SE

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

COMMENT

The City Intercollegiate
Hockey League was won his
year by Dalhousie. The league
ended in a rather unsatisfactory manner however. Tech.,
due to their proposed tour of
Nfld., decided to withdraw unless the, lay-off datescould be
lengthened.

This was refused by the Intercollegiate Union so Tech retired and St.
Mary's, last year’s champs, also decided to withdraw. Thus Dal won the
league. However, Dal in the w riter's
opinion had a slight edge onSt. Mary's
with whom they were tied for the league
leadership.

The Tigers take on the RedShirts in a regular fixture of
the City Basketball League tonight. The Wanderers: trimmed Dal in their first clash
this year but followers of the
game predict a victory for the
Tigers to-night on the Dal
court.

Law and Arts battled to another
draw in the Interf. Hockey League.
Now according to Doug Bent if these
two teams meet again expenses will
have to be borne by the two teams.
His idea is to flip a-coin to decide the
winner.

Interfaculty Sport costs but
$150 a year yet the Council refuse to pay for an extra game or
two. Those mainly taking
part in Interfaculty are students who do not enter either
Senior or Intermediate competition. Each year it seems
we are getting less value for
the $19 fee.

Gymnastic classes have started and
are. usually on Saturday afternoons.
Under the direction of Mr. Stirling,
the boys are making preparations for

Munroe Day.

The Dal Hockey Team will
not journey to Boston this year.
The hockey manager was in
touch with officials, but arrangements suitable to both
teams could not be secured.

Potter is certainly working the boys
hard enough these days. Exhibition
'games will be played until the winners
of the Acadia-St. F. X. series are declared.

If you have any criticisms or
sport notes send them along.
Wewill be only too glad toprint
them. This means you—lan,
Sypher, Bill, ‘‘Red’’, Morty,
Henry, etc. etc.

LT

 

TOO BIG FOR
THE WORLD
SO
THEY STAGED IT
IN THE CLOUDS

“Flying Down
To Rio”

with DOLORES DEL RIO
GENE RAMOND
GINGER ROGERS
FRED ASTAIRE

CAPITOL

STARTING SATURDAY

SS Se eee neat

 

February 22nd. 1984

Se

   

 

TIGERS S CROW NED HOCKEY CHAMPIONS

Dal Tigers Will Play

 

Off For

Nova Scotia Cheinctonahie

 

Dal Co-eds Win
Over Mount A.

Dal co-eds won the first of the intercollegiateleague games Saturday at Mt.
Allison with a score of 32-13. Dal’s
team worked with wonderful coordination. The pass work between the
forwards and center was worked with
perfect timing and precision. Isobel
Fraser, center for Dal, was nigh scorer with seventeen points to her credit.

The game started rather slowly at
first. During the first five minutes, |
although Dal had the ball right under
their basket, they couldn't seem to find
it—shooting wildly.
became better oriented there was ‘‘no|
stopping them... Isobel ‘M’selle”’
Fraser got the tip-off every time.
From ‘M’selle”’ the ball went to Flo
Keniston who with Mar Keniston and)
‘M'selle”’ carried a zig-zag pass to the
basket. Seldom was the ball in Mt. |
A’s territory. Whenit was, Helen Remillard and Marg Woolaver did most
efficient blocking and intercepting of
passes. From them the ball was passed to Mary Simmons who shot it
down to the forwards. Several times
a very good play was carried out in
which Flo recovered the tip off from
center and then passed it straight and
‘*M’selle” who had dashed down to receive it directly under the basket.

On the whole, Dal played a game far
better than the previous games of this
year, which also good, Dal’s
passes and plays in general were much
neater and worked without any ‘‘hitches.’’ Fouls were much fewer in this
game. The ‘‘Parson’’ was so pleased
with his girls that he promised—and
paid—a nice big candy ‘‘lollypop” to
every member of the team, if they won.

Next Saturday our coeds play Acadia. See if Dal can show as good a
turn out as Mt. A. did when the girls
played at home!

Right forward—Flo Keniston.

Left Forward—Mar Keniston.
Center (jump)—‘'M’selle”’ Fraser.
Left Guard—Helen Remillard

Right Guard—Marg Woolaver.
Running side center—Mary Simmons.
Subs— Charlotte Stuart, Ruth Skaling,
Dorothy Dobson.

Avis-andLau. Tie

In a regular fixture of the Interfaculty Hockey League played at the
Forum last Tuesday, Arts and Law
again battled to a draw. At the end
of three exciting periods neither team
had netted the disc and as no overtime
was possible both teams had to be content with a draw.

Play opened fast in the first chapter
with both teams playing wide open
hockey. Hinchey nearly scored for
Law when he split the Arts defense but
Bill Scott came out to make a sensational save. Bing Crosby stellar defenseman of the Arts team combined nicely
with Healy but Bob MacLellan made a
beautiful save.

Play in the second canto see-sawed
back and forth. Oyler with nis fine
poke-checking saved the
time after time, as the Artsmen turned
on the steam. Referee Bent handled
out the penalties quite frequently for
minor infractions.

In the last frame both teams tried
Miller and McSween were leading some dangerous
rushes butthe hefty checking of Mick
MacGlashen slowed the boys down.

CASINO

Wednesday to Friday

were

 

barristers

desperately to score.

 

 

 

 

The Woman In
e e {
His Life
with the great Stage Star

OTTO KRUGER
UNA MERKEL....

!
February 21-22-23 i

}

BEN LYON,

Saturday to Tuesday
February 24-26-27

ORIENT
EXPRESS

the coming week.

As soon as Daly

| both he and manager

For the first time in several years
Dalhousie has won the City Intercollegiate League. The league this season ended in a rather unsatisfactory
manner with both St. Mary’s and Tech
retiring from competition.

Tech due to their proposed tour of
Nftd. withdrew while St. Mary’s, last
year’s champs, decided to retire. The
Tigers now meet the winners of the
Acadia-St. F. X. sudden death game
which takes place this week.

It is rumored that the Tiger’s cfficials will press for a two game series,
the first game to take place early in
It has been quite a
'few years since the students have turn
ed out to see the hockey team in action,
In the forthcoming series the team will
need plenty of support so turn out and
see your team come through.

Coach Oyler has been working the
boys hard during the past week and
“Tiger” Mackasey expect the Tigers to come out on
top.

The fellowing is a short summary of
the members of the team:—

VIC KYTE—Goalie: This is Vic’s
first year on the Varsity squad. Has
been stopping them from all angles
this season and improves with each
game.

HAL CONNOR—160 lbs.
right defense.
vear on the Senior team.

6ft..2 in.
This is Hal’s fourth
Hal likes
to bump the opposing forwards and
is a nice puck-carrier.

DOUG BENT—1650 lbs. 5 ft. 9 in. left

defense. Doug has been playing
Varsity for three years. Teams up
swell with Connor and is an excep-tionally fast skater. Always well

up in the scoring.
BOB STANFIELD—146 lbs.

in.,

5 ft. 11

Bob switched back
from centre to defense this season.
Always a threat to the opposing
goalie Bob is most valuable with his
poke-check.

JACK BUCKLEY-—155 lbs. 5 ft. 6 in.
centre. This is Jack’s second vear
on the Dal team. A star of other
Jack is usually the high

and is noted his tricks

left defense.

colleges
scorer for
around the

EDDIE

right

nets.
COHEN—1460 Ibs.
This is
year On the Varsity.
stick-handler,
with Buckley.
JACK GRANT —1E0 lbs. 5 ft.
left wing.

8 in
first
A very tricky
Eddie teams up well

5 ft.

wing. Eddie’s

11 in
Jack completes the forward line teaming up with Buckley

and Cohen. A very good play
maker and scorer. Jack should

show up well in the play-offs.
CAPPY COOKE—155 Ibs. 5 ft. 5 in.

centre. This is Cappy’s second year
on the team. A great play-maker
he teams up well with Ellis to net
many goals.

BISCAY ELLIS—150 Ibs.

wing,

6 ft. right

Biscay has the most dangerOus shot on the team and usually
scores from every impossible angle.
Second year on the team.

RUSTY BRYANT—1465 lbs. 5 ft. 7 in.
left wing.
year on the
with Cappy
threat.

JIM CROSBY—Bing is 5
and weights 165 Ibs. Used both at
left wing and defense. Has a nice
poke-check and teams up well either
as defense or forward.

HIAROLD FLYNN—5 ft. 10 in., 160
lbs. leftwing. This is Harold's first
year on the team. Wicked shot and
a goal getter.
for a local in his spare

ry. . . ’
This is Bryant s second

team. Teams up well

and is always a scoring

ft PP im

e time

GARRICK

FRI.

 

 

SAT.

THE FOUR MARX
BROTHERS in

“DUCK SOUP”’

MON-TUES.

Noel Coward’s

Famous

‘Bitter Sweet’

 

 

a a eg a

Ee

Baie? 2s oper) tsi

Writes breezy brief.

 

: Pr take a Bre

t
4
