    

sade ae a sl bem Se Aieen etme. ‘ ielionit Pee ene eR ase WAS naa 1G - _ ae ae . tee ~ : eo — -— . —_—‘ &

bed for the third time, “this

back to the alarm clock.

A

">? 9

“Umm,

*?

Day!
a while. 7
Munro Day, calm and clear.

   

OLDEST STUDENT

AMERICA’S PUBLICATION

VOL. LXXVIII No. 19

 

 

 

* HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 15, 1946 tional battle of the sexes, in which the men, five strong, probably

Pr TeX ——— defeated the starry women’s team. The next event was the interfaculty
| r jar-pushing-pie-eating-and-stuff contest. Final results from this competition were never announced, although they are likely around some
A } iH L E i te Sf : ad !
At four o’elock began the great a Sot J

event of the day, the choosing of Connolly Shield Taken

{ the Munro Day Queen. Thirteen By Delta Gamma; Doane

beautiful girls paraded across the Is Pan-Hellenic Winner

| mage ind gael s mane! of =: @ THE CONNOLLY sHIEM

e e ec re y 8, s "1E ys eee 4 ' a ‘

o M be Ambi f10us * QUEEN TERRY PRESIDES... from those members of the faculty Re ey, a = ae aan pony Be
ew em rs ; 3 who have shown the most discérn- Daliowsis by Captain Joseph Calm

ee nolly, R.C.N., as a prize for the

ing taste ‘in affairs of pulchritude.
The appeared individually
first, but later lined up across the
center of the stage together, and
so striking was the sight that one
critic was heard to remark: “Huba!
Huba! Huba!”’

When the beauties had finished
contesting, chairs were cleared

eo-eds

Plan Sweeping Reforms
For Campus Societies

@® CERTAINLY the most outspoken, ambitious collection of
, Dalhousians ever to grace the Students’ Council in many years
nervously seated themselves around the conference tables of
the Murray Homestead last Sunday afternoon, straining anx1
— r ’ a ie

ously at the bit, impatient for the chance to demonstr ate their
ability for coping successfully with all the campus problems
resurrected and so hotly debated during recent election
campaigns.

 

away for a supper dance, while in
the lower gym a match was held
under a wash tub full of beans, by
way of preparation for serving

fe Athletics Subject of Heated Discussion them to a hungry mob of students.

Easily the most heated discussion of the meeting centered around Buneiant wha Stee eee

the athletic question—‘Precisely what was the trouble; how might it Abed smlbaneeates vase’ hy

be remedied; and when?” Reminding the Council that his platform had ice mnie ike Eee acu abe

received thet overwhelming endorsement of the electorate, President- ae Be Pe toxt striata

¥ elect Clint Havey explained that most of the members were not qualified lacie te ee i Lai

| to deliberate on any immediate action, and asked for an interval of ten eon alk ean. eae
days before the appointment be made of a joint Council-Alumni com- ei ae gs ear % tl
mittee to investigate the situation and submit recommendations. He re ne ed gute

. wanted the ae to employ this period in carefully considering the ‘ful of awards ada dietaihuted, and

: ae: then the curtain was lifted on the

membership of aA a committee. ies CH Gieterecne ete

species of variety show featuring

 

  
  

 

Snot inique in
"the athletic

Syestens he Pina how the others had

fallen down through their failure to

Other Business Your
New Council Passed

1. Elected John Lauchie MacLellan as member-at-large.

songs, dances, drama, and corn,
After the show the chairs were
pushed away. once more,. Warners’
Collegians began to toot, and sundry folk began to dance. As a matter of fact, they did this until one

2. Elected Terry MacLean as o’clock the next morning.
take action before their term of of- ong vice-president. At this cheery hour Munro Day
fice expired. He predicted that 3. Named Jim Frazee, Mark festivities were officially terminaq without some radical changes be- yeomans and Bill Mingo to join ted. A few unofficial celebrations
« fore September, the D.A.A.C. would = @jjnt Havey, Al Blakeney, Terry continued sometime longer, but

   

spend even more of the Council re
e than they did this year, and
little or no substantial imHe expressed the opHon that any real change, such as
a revised time-table for lectures,
would have to be endorsed in a
plebescite by the whole student

MacLean and Murray Rankin
the executive committee.

on

4. Appoint Bill Pope as head of
the Students’ Gymnasium Committee, Doug Roy as member-atlarge.

5. Appoint Al Blakeney as chair
TERRY
ladies-in-waiting (the other contestants), pauses for the camera shutter

MACLEAN,

just after she was crowned

evening.

 

“Queen of

garbed in her regal robes, and attended by her

Munro Day 1946” last Tuesday

they were all under control for nine
o’clock classes later on in the morning. The general feeling of the
students as they crawled into bed
was that more than one Munro
Day a year was highly desirable.
It was suggested that all presi
oO ig — . ¢ a0 2x Ne a} >
. Sin ihefaraleeuctvinie \uerious ‘con man and Bob Roome as member of L N d wie , ee ee KS
‘ elvin § = : . : instructec O ; suc i f : the Gate Receipts Committee. ac ean ame unro Queen ;
He hn toned wrt ave fe teoel, Dr Bel © Oe A et Highlights Program css is ceo sos
. : ; Advisory committee. Co & is ee ene ee Pas
. ‘ ; ‘ sday of Mare s asid
to be done now to be carried out a." Desided to publish the agenda ee | . Wednesday oe Ms Arh ney Asi 5
¥ before next fall, and if it is not +. 4u future meetings in THE © THE MUCH PUBLICIZED and long awaited ceremony of each year as a holiday in honout
carried out by then, this Council GAZETTE the week prior, to in- Choosing Dalhousie’s Campus Queen surpassed all expecta- of sleepy students.
will have no further opportunity to J... in. heads of all societies fin- tions. The parade of campus beauties commenced at 4.00 P.M.
sn ore te, S ~ te anced by the Council to these meet- Munro Day before a slate of dignified and enthusiastic J aes Glee Club Stage Party
. in her . ey; i. 88, and to refuse to deal with any lhe co-ed contestants, introduced by a male representative of at Waeg for Members
ee ee ee icitany-predented by these aocie- their supporting group, underwent a complete and detailed ” .
fied and as hesitant as the present |... sinless the president or his re- escription of their qualifications and charms—in the case of © LAST MONDAY evening the
_ Council, and want another year to presentative is present the Commerce co-ed perhaps a bit too detailed. Waegwoltic was the scene of a
) consider the situation. 7 The contestants, Fairley Prouse, had endeavoured to pick the typi- well-attended and very successful

. ; of meals. -Hill; Bobby White, Law; Kay +o every male, bers of the Dalhousie Glee and day, March 16, 7.30 p.m. Engin\ The entire question appeared to 3. Student support of varsity Whitehouse, Phi Chi; Mary Robert- “ollowing the coronation Prof. Dramatic Society. Novelty danc- eer’s Common Room.
| } break down into three particular sthletics: whether a scheme could son, Phi Delta Theta; Muriel Hancock and the newly crowned _ ing, refreshments, a sing-song, and . Resolution:
} problems: be put into operation for discover- Chisholm, Dentistry; Joan God- ueen entertained those present parlor games added to the fun and “Resolved that Palestine should
i 1, Coaches: whether the power to jing all athletic talent as soon as it frey, Beaver Club; Kay MacLean, with a display of exhibition enjoyment of the eve of Munro Day be made a place of refuge for
appoint them should be taken away arrived, for persuading it to turn Commerce; Vivian Lusher, Men’s 4anecing. celebrations. Jews from Europe.”
from the D.A.A.C. and given to the out, and for organizing the student Residence; Terry MacLean, Kings; ;
University (acting through a Phys- body to turn out and support it. Nancy Wilson, Sigma Chi; Jean Fi RST MARITI “of E HOO iP TO U he ing EY
ical Director.) In respect to the third problem Leslie, Engineering and Marion
: 2. Practice hours: whether ‘ies Mr. Minto called attention to a Withrow, Phi Rho, were all of

Three Problems

can be arranged at times conveni
 

 

as not to involve the heavy expense

plank in his platform proposing

Arts & Science; Margot Ross, Pine

such great beauty that the work of

cal co-ed using the methods known

 

BEING HELD HERE OVER WEEKEND

party, given for the active mem
a ent for ALL students, and also so that the organization of student the judges was as difficult as it
support be taken off the hands of was pleasant. THIS WEEKEND will witness In the afternoon there will be
¢ the D.A.A.C., too busy to handle it Six hours were required by a first Intercollegiate Basketball two games, beginning at 2:00 p. m.,
Wed fi eeti ni g properly, and given to a special Profs. Hancock, Mercer, Ritcher, Tournament ever held in the Mari- and again both St. F. X., and U.N.B.
< : week. ‘ Snat : : ° ‘ :
committee chosen from every fac- Maxwell, Crawford, Collier, Mac- times, when the whistle goes at will see action.
‘ Agenda Is sued ulty and residence on the campus Donald, Ritchie, Milner, Theakston, 7:00 p.m. tonight, starting the The final game of the Tourna
   
    
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  

@® THE NEW STUDENTS’ Council will meet on Wednesday, March
20, at 7:30 p.m., in the Murray
Homestead,

' Agenda |
1. Review system of awards
2. Organize cheerleading .

3. Assist January class in sum
mer activities
Recruit Freshman taler ¢
r Pharos constitution

and from the Alumni.
Gold ‘D’s Discussed

Clint Havey next informed the
Council of the recommendation of
the old Council that the system of
awarding gold ‘D’s be changed.
Considerable dissatisfaction has
been expressed concerning the present practice of esenting
to forty stip me, wards Kail
year, 80) ne. P -comy ative
effort.” i tir
ed that

  
  
  

 
  
  
  
 

Foran, before their judical decision

‘was reached and announced.

At 10.10 Prof. Hancock, amid
much cheering and hand clapping,
named Terry MacLean as Dalhousie’s Campus Queen of 1946.
In making the announcement of the
judicial decision ous Hancock

   
 

  
 
 
  

   

| ‘ Md thar their
8) shi es #: eh ad
: ©: The, : ‘x

vi

3, taking: part

elt

game between U.N.B. and St. F. X.
for the Maritime Intercollegiate
title. There will be two games following this tilt, with Acadia, Mt.
A., Dal, and a Tech-King’s team
participating in the play.

The first match is purely intercollegiate and has no bearing on

he Pourmnament—- “Toubiam ett iy

é will ‘eOntinue on, ‘SatGrday morning,
two Zamies bet giayed commenc-_
i 4. Sty: FX, will
ae ‘in on® Bame, arid U. Ns B.

  
   
  
 

   

~

ee

ment will get under way at 7:30
p. m. Saturday evening, to declare
a tournament winner, and a dance
will follow,

The six teams will divide into
sections of three, with St. F. X. in
one, and U.N.B. in the other. Each

2 yee

ea: ie case Of sectional ties, the

pe ‘the most points svill

he declared witner of the section, '

and autem re ity for the
“finals; =

 
 

a will _play, a. Round. Robbin...

‘Qebaaamine presentation
x of their Students’ Council cards,

Munro Day Celebrations

Best Attended in Dal’s
History; Events Lauded

By BILL KELLY
“EGAD!” MUTTERED the happy collegian, rolling over in

is the morning we sleep in.”

“Why is that?” asked his roommate, carefully turning his
“Hadesion, Gentlemen!” responded
the first, “don’t you know what the score is?
was the enthusiastic reply,
And thus to a thousand waiting students dawned

Today is Munro
“must get up in

Festivities started at half-past two in the afternoon with interfaculty
@ basketball, the red-hot Freshmen team beating the red-hot Law team in >
the first game for the league championship.

Then followed the tradi
 

best one-act play staged by #
campus society, was awarded
Munro Day evening to Delta
Gamma for their presentation

three weeks ago of the Phillip
Johnson production “World Without Men’. In presenting the shield

to Constance Archibald, president”

of Delta Gamma, Professor C. Hy
Mercer, adjudicator,
the cast,
tirely of girls.
ed the play,
MacLean. J

Freshette Frances Doane. was
named the winner of the ale
Hellenic Award, the highest fed@l 9
bestowed on any first year gio, By

L. Robertson dirdetes’
assisted by Tetry

the Dalhousie student bodyjje ee

Doane attended Netherwood: esh ye
coming to Dal, and during tlt jy
year she was prominent lipio
athletics and in the Delta ®
Society.

Frances Doane also receivégy
special Marjorie Leonard
for the best all-round sport ir
D.G.A.C. This award, a
spoon, was just sunuusiedd this
past year.

—

 
  

vie

Council Hosts to Guests

Undergrads at Banquet
@ LAST MONDAY NIGHT, im
the ballroom of the Nova Scotian
Hotel, the retiring members of this
year’s Students’ Council were hosts,
to the University at the first Stam
dents’ Council banquet to be held
in over ten years. More than 180
students, professors, and members
of the Board of Governors and
their wives were in attendance. |
Among the distinguished guests
present were His Worship Mayer
Allan Butler, Président Kerr and
Mrs. Kerr, Deans Wilson, MacDonald, Grant and Woodbury, and Mr.
and Mrs. Murray Rankin.
President Larry Sutherland acted
as toastmaster and intriduced the
various speakers of the evening,
including Dr. Kerr, who responded
to the toast to the University.
® INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATE:
Dalhousie vs, Pine Hill, Satur
 

 

a possibility that one team may
play in four matches. Each team
will carry ten men, two more than
the usual number carried by college teams in the Maritimes, due to
the strenuous schedule of games
required to complete the tournament,

Don Warner’s Collegians will be
in attendance for part of the series,
playing during intermissions.

The first row -of ats will be

   
  

reserved for buyera@f Tournament
seats, at $1.00 per/seat. General
admission for’ session will be

ents getting

complimented re
which ‘was made up Gi ©

¥ Ul

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  

ae;
"ies }
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

| MOR ee
fe i . + i ie
i then Ai 'P By 7 *
a ee : PY Ae weet ee
F i a at 5 r : ' = . rats : q d
een ey fen te Lay % age >
iy ‘ it rah ; ;
a ‘eh - » a >
r a ie .
[ee aia!
Us il 8 ee | ot os ae eT Re Elite ; a
‘ Ay kL abs 7 '
r Wt eh ( ‘ q ’ é
i i ae A ae , zh :

 

aT
A

ere
lee
ae ) ee

* Pa i ;

THE REPORTS carried on the
. of this issue of THE GAZETTE,
1s may be able to grasp the fact
‘ now possess one of the strongest
t ambitious Students’ Council the
ity has known in many years. Energy,
asiasm and ability were the key-notes of
unday’s meeting, and the new Council is
nined not so much to expand Dalhousie’s
y lengthy program of activities as to
ect a greater working efficiency among
2 now in operation—no mean task.

a 4

They want first of all to wrestle with the
nuch criticized athletic situation, and endeavor
‘0 raise our standard to the level enjoyed during
» roaring twenties, the glorious position that,
yecause we are the largest and wealthiest
laritime university, rightfully is ours for the
asking. Then the power in Maritime senior
rting circles, Dalhousie recently has proved
_) dess than a weak threat in mere intercollegiate
‘fo those who believe that the lack of
nen’s residence, a swimming pool and a hockey
are handicaps whose surmounting alone
olds the key to this task, it should be pointed
¢ that Dalhousie never had these facilities
the past and yet was able to produce great
ms. Rather we contend that the whole
tuation resolves itself into three particular
yblems, concerning which much can be done
)W in time for next year.

‘The first of these is the system of appointx coaches. The D.A.A.C., an incorporated
'y, have always had complete authority to
ire and pay coaches, an authority that has
iven the executive of this organization con9] over coaching policy. Currently it is being
‘ened—with considerable justification—that
sMudent executive is not competent enough
@Reld this authority wisely, and that it is
y unfair to any coach to place him at
nerey.

e alternative is, of course, the one emby most colleges in Canada, namely
ve the University appoint all coaches
th the medium of a physical director.
stem is ideal—PROVIDED that the
rsity is able in the first place to secure
brvices of a competent physical director.
just anyone will do. He must have the
ymWing three quantities:

Se ~ Léadership: He ought to have made a

1% _¢reditable showing among his peers as well as

cn ™ have sufficient personality to inspire the men

9 he is working with to respect him as their
~*~ >) natural leader. Unless he can persuade them
‘that he is their superior, any attempts at disipline, team-spirit and devotion to the coach

® will fail miserably.

2. Ability to teach: Regardless of how much

4 Se8po

+ World Government
"SAKE A LOOK around you. Think what it would
‘be like if instead of the simple act of dropping
ur letter in the mail box, you personally had to
ferry it to its destination. Or if there were no system
SF law and order laid down by your representatives
an’ P arliament, and no police force to see that those
_ Taws were enforced. What would you do if your
ty Piet house caught fire, and you could not call the fire
"department? Would you rather everyone simply reabl ita) moved garbage from their homes by depositing it in
pe, 7) 4 the street ?
| ~~ - Ridiculous you say. No organized society would
tolerate such inconveniences, nor permit such conditions to prevail. And yet organized gociety didn’t
just oecur. It was the result of a natural evolution.
4 hii As man’s needs gréw. so also did his governing body
ss expand to meet those needs.

Although this gradual evoluticn represents on the
Y 2! one hand an inerease in benefits for ail, it also repreaor! sents a sacrifice of certain rights and privileges on
the part of the’individual. Rather than enforce our
| individual rights by stealing up on our debtor in the
~~ dead of night with a club, we have agreed to permit
a court of justice to deal with the matter. For all
oy: the benefits which we receive, we agree to be taxed
fees in proportion to, and in accordance with, our ability
to pay. SF 7
___ And so the small village becomes a city, and cities
permit a limitation of their powers of government
so that a provincial government might carry out
~~. measures for the common good of all. In the same
ad a “way, a sacrifice of provincial powers is made in favor

of a federal authority which confers benefits more or
Tess in proportion to the sacrifices made by the
provinces, | . |
This process has of course been going on all over
- the world since man first looked about himself. It is

7

~ purely ae natural process in view of the needs of

' vo
? ’ t
" Be

hs i. } Ne et

a ig
ry ; - as al
« A I

i

"THE question now arises, how far will this process
® 50? Will we stop at national boundaries, re
re tah 7: ' aye rd . j j ; \ *

™ pac (he « ’
Ea * i 4 F : re gy - " k , :
yable New Council
. | hi Fok Pa = rah oF i F 7 . f : - 7

om o ' ole . se nv a : a

Tackle Athletic Question

ue . fe i. ; a ; My

pe E

  

 

 

 

ey 7 5 ok ines ~ : a or “Sales - iP Pe r' 7 . = 3 rae Ta “ ; Quy cr
wh rh ra ' m am wi nt a Per a oe hr a 4 : at fi ‘ iL oe We ay 9 thy
etn A; ot », - | AP A & ; i;
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE March 15, 1946
; ¥

DALHOUSIE |

GRADUATION GIFT? }

G2 g tte It’s an old custom—and a very |

nice one—to accompany good |

; ; wishes with a gift. 4

he himself may know about sport, unless he America’s Oldest Student Publication. 5 s- q

ean transfer this knowledge to his prospective

players, his value as a coach is insignificant.

3. Knowledge of sport: He should preferably be an athlete of considerable repute, yet
the best athletes do not necessarily make the
best coaches.

Assuming that the right man can be found,
even his appointment will full powers to
handle all coaching independent of D.A.A.C.
would not entizely solve the problem. At the
present time, in view of the many fields of
athletics in which Dalhousie participates, this
task plus his duties as physical instructor

-amounts to far too much work for any one

man; and he would be forced to appoint other
coaches to work under him. Unless the University gave him an assistant, these coaches
could only come from the Alumni; ex-Dalhousians who not only possess the three qualities
listed above, but also understand Dalhousie
spirit. There are several such men available,
but they have found it impossible to leave
their full-time jobs to attend practices during
the hours they are currently held.

And this is the second of the three problems. The present practice hours not only
involve’ the heavy expense of meals for the
players, but also are extremely inconvenient
for many of the students on the campus—to
the extent of prohibiting their participation
in athletics—as well as for potential Alumni
coaches from off the campus. Granted it will
not be an easy matter to redraft the time-table
of classes so to permit more convient practice
hours, yet we are not satisfied that any seri
ous attempt has yet been made to investigate 
the possibilities. Dalhousie has too much at
stake to shrug her shoulders and declare herself helpless.

The third problem is that of organizing
student support for these athletics. This
support has fallen down in the past, not
through lack of spirit so much as lack of organization; and as the new Council fully appreciates this fact, there is every reason to
believe that the present unhealthy situation
will not be allowed to prevail next year.

This Council is meeting this coming
Wednesday to consider this and other matters. They are determined to do their utmost
for you, but to achieve much real success
they need your assistance. Council meetings
are open to all members of the student body.
It is your responsibility as well as your privilege not only to instruct your representative
in your particular views, but also to attend
the meeting and ensure that these views are
properly presented.

Next year could preve the greatest in the
history of Dalhousie. It rests with each one
of us to make certain that it will.

a Reality?

reaching of various stages of maturity. We cannot
expect all nations, young and old, with varying degrees of prosperity and prestige in the world of
nations, to submit to a world government, anymore
than we can expect a child to think as an adult. But
it is a rare source of delight to see a child thoughtful
enough to see itself in relation to the world around it.

What are some of the considerations we will have
to decide upon should we agree to adopt world government? To achieve a truly world government we
should be required to view the world not as a collection of political entities to be represented on a basis
of international power, but as a collection of living,
breathing, human beings of varying nationality and
ideas, to be represented on a numerical basis. We
should, in other words, be represented on a basis of
population so that all men all over the world would
have equal representation. The peoples of India and
China would therefore send more delegates to, and
have more votes in, the world, tribunal than Canada
or the United States.

Startling some say, to think that measures could
be proposed and adopted that would involve us in
great efforts, even armed conflict, without our being
able to say no. Our power im matters of international import would be limited to the votes we could
cast in a world legislative body, and those votes in
proportion to our population. This fear made it easy
for such men as Lodge and Johnson to persuade the
American people not to ratify Wilson’s proposals
after the last world conflict. It takes big spirit in
people to overcome the tendency to cling to whatever
personal security they may possess. To relinquish
that doubtful personal security for the greater good
of all is to become mature.

On the individual will depends the national will.
If we as individuals are ready to make this sacrifice,
our government will necessarily reflect that readiness.
The question mark over world government becomes a
mark for us as individuals to remove, or leave. If
we remove it now we will confer upon ourselves the
benefits of a peaceful world; if we leave it we simply

to. sacrifices of our national postpone its removal until unity grows upon us limiting the major campus posifor 4 | ef upon the thraugh abso i er ty, and probably at the cost. _ tions held by any one person; and in the B.Sc, course, about $10 a year
| eee dee Le o eeeah ane Bee Tee Bet wrt giee ee ee
he us. 1 (ah Nath ve , 10 e > oe nuing au the
py } M a aoe . ‘@ f .. re wre ae - i cay Zl ‘, et ; r bores i is ae
a ‘Las ae io . x. “a ’ s ys z : 3 ef ban pte ‘eeeat 4) v wae i
a ey ae ot pars bey oe ee Pre Nace yee ~ PBanizacior “Or conductilé
F ; alte ‘ ts en i; - . at, vias al eee { 4 rs . wa eels
n this process — nres nt the © = re 1 ato, a ea nee hae ‘Dp. I my rene ert iad Tec tee .
an unt 10C . r A a ; ee Bas Te ip Aig oa Adi vian) ~ . TH Eh ty! ris a ry rt ae ae ¥, ey
Be le al Lae NaS a Peat a a , Fy % : f ge j PR Se drat seine a age"
eu ‘diay 2! si nae poem oleic (itray { ae anes Tt 2 hc seceninneel t

Your family, for instance,

For more than 76 years devoted !
might be glad to know that a

the interests of the student body.

Staff

you'd like a Birks Challenger—

, the best buy in fine watches. df
Editor |

Sade wsele ..-» Bill Mingo +
eee anes ..Bob McCleave t
ssociate editors: . am
PNG id ain'a a iwie o'cib 8 Blair Dunlop Henr y Bir Ks and Sons |
Don Harris Limited t
Paneie ice GaN Lome Registered Jewellers '
[uiterary...: ss <. Morton Norman American Gem Society
Photography Don Morrison —~ Halifax

Barrington St.
Cartoons—Bob Tuck. ;

Circulation—Nita Sideris
_ Mary Farquhar _

 

2

 

 

lies wack atsck Corsages |

 

    
    
  
 
   
         
        

 

   

 

   
  
  

 

 
   

 

. A “Colonial” Corsage de- ™
Enjoys Successful Year &
my ite Sh S li se signed by ROSEDALE,
espite Short Supplies Pvettiaken te ae speaks eloquent volumes ,
@ .YES, THE PAST YEAR has ki AP of tenderness and love. 7
been a successful one for the Uni- ‘SMOKING like a ti
versity Store, in spite of the fact prof to knowledge
that with the opening of college, _ eet - i
thembers of the Faculty and Ad- since I’ve UT h alg | o> 8 ea
ministrative officers of the Univer- ed sweet, cool, 38) mittrniharun ot unee:
sity are confronted with a problem " 1 /
of considerable magnitude. mild Picobac. ‘f
This year the enrolnient was un- {
predictable, and both University 7
authorities and publishers of text e oe
books failed to anticipate the sub- ig © ene |
stantial increase in the Freshman
Class. Due to the shortage of sup- T 4
plies this presented quite a prob- HE PICK OF TOBACCO
lem to the management of the —__' NE A j
University Store which is respon- —. . :
sible for student classroom sup- JERRY NAUGLER’S Education does not ae
plies; and the situation was ag- ORCHESTRA stop with a degree!
gravated by a greatly increased 123 Willow Street eT : thi ¢
4 1ere is something new to }
a class 1s i Bere oF all | Call 4-9673 learned each day and your daily 4
these difficulties, the splendid co- —— newspaper is a valuable source :
operation received from Faculty of education. From local and oi
|

world news to worthy articles
and explanatory editorials you'll
benefit by reading

The Halifax Herald
and The Halifax Mail

members is largely responsible for
of the

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
&

the very successful
store.

Students who patronize the University store find in it a great convenience, and without appearing to a
register a complaint it is felt that Re Tks I Mame ) We
as a matter of good business, cer- ae Sanaa. rr tr ee ae) 4 |
tain phases of the store activity BR i hy ne ee My i ;

sl tian | ARTER MUNRO DAYS
COMES E-DAY!

year

 
  
   
     
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

a A SAtde it Ray

 

While it is true that the
estimates of the present year fell
short of the demand, due to the
abnormal enrolment, it is only reasonable to assume that when books
are brought in to supply an “individual order, the student responsible for the putchase will endeavour to meet the obligation he
has ineurred by its presence.

It is regrettable that this is not
always the case; for this year the
offence is much greater than usual,
as two hundred dollars worth or
more of these valuable books are
still reposing on the shelves at the
University Store.

Council...

Continued frem page 1
the standard of the gold ‘D’, and

the latter be given only for two
silver ‘D’s; that a scheme of awarding points for executive work be
devised to eliminate many of the
honorary ‘D’s now given; and that
the Awards Committee of the
Council set up a card file where the
point records of every student
might be kept, thereby permitting
an accurate account to ‘be preserved
from year to year despite changes
in executive -personnel.
Agenda to be Published

The Council also decided to publish the agenda for all Council
meetings in The Gazette the week
prior; to invite the heads of all societies financed by the Council to
these meetings; and to refuse to
consider any of the business presented by these societies unless the
president or his representative is
present,

Other business the Council discussed but shelved for this Wednesday’s meeting were: instructions
to the Freshmen’s Representative
to prepare a Freshman’s Handbook and an elaborate questionaire
listing all their interests and abilities for the incoming class next
fall; amendment to the constitution

4
The facts have to be faced. Examinations are only six weeks
away. Students will be busier than ever, getting into the grind .
that paves the road to successful scholarship.
|

With the steady plugging, there naturally comes the “brealet
when you have a cigarette, or join in a brief “bull session”. VY al
can always give your morale a lift and get inspiration for the tas
that lies ahead of you bby giving the people at home a eall, or i
friend that lives out of the city. They can give you the local news
and a friendly encouragement towards those big tests.

é

Maritime Telegraph and Telephone Company Limited are ever
ready with their long-distance service to give you this service. y

 

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone Co., Ltd.

S8-92 Hollis Street

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading t di
of M.A., M.Sc, *" ay ne

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses,

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.

 
 
  
 

 

m “home.”

ar

_ who sports a jaundiced eye

Aro rr , ~~ >
Ab © oat
’
i,
, .
tide _
at 1 r
fy E p
; :

4

 
 

7

ork raut. Buttock,

aN PEN F
eet

n eg Tycoon, Caught
Munro Day Maelstrom

By J. CRICKET McGOSH

““pyE. EATING CONTESTS are not only detrimental but
| mentaldetri and latnemirted ...” spake Q. Sauerkraut Buttock, Ontario tycoon, homme d’affaires and connoisseur of the

arts. as he watched contestants IAS OLCHEE pastry tid-bits on

Munro Day.

“You've a Tot of avast air’,

 quoth Dr. Muftin Foothen of the
— Low ‘Seull, nibbling on a loganh berry tart. “You should know that

‘all and sundry seems rie to him

“If the waddum ‘shu of the

- didile widdle fits the iddy biddie
. ‘fishie, then Iforesee trouble for the
; is Iranese,”

replied Buttock. “. .
‘But where’ s the exit? I wanna go

et

| “Sorry, but you'll never make

a att quoth McGosh, “you'll hafta sit

"7

?
fy

. Prof. Magan

tight for the beauty contest and
-declamation on

Little | Tute

Liverwurst, “Gluttenheim Missing
“Beauty contests are detrimental,

hs mentaldetri and latnemirted,” said

wa
aN

=
Ad

i Gluttenheim displaying their wares
along with Boobie Whittle and the
Naat et

,
\
a diy

}

 

9) for insubordination”,

 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

ny

focusing

Buttock. “And -why aren’t pert
Sadie Liverwurst and comely Emma

“This is a democracy,
aint it?”

“Miss Whittle disqualified them
retorted
MeGosh.

“Pity, pity! Jove... what girls!
Zounds, that curvacious walk of
Miss Marryin Wither seems too
much for Lorenzo Rickets. He’s
vaporized like Nagasaki after the

atom, bomb .. . Gad, sir—look at
Pres. Auto gaping at Miss Godless
of the Muskrats through his lorg~

¢ re
a

and Kem. Prof. Foreign
his binoculars on pert. Co y

Pilea.

   

\
3

But Q. Sauerkraut Buttock was

 
   
  
 

showing the strain of festivities.

-Trampled underfoot by a mob of

celebrants, he was finally rescued
by a corps of Marmalade Hovelites
and carted away to their bean and
brown-bread repast in the lower

_ jim. Barely surviving this ordeal,

sal tycoon tunneled his way
' he stage of the Glum Club
re he was mistaken for a bull“fid le by Maestro Frink Padless
and subjected to the sadistic on
slaughts of said program.

“Beast! You missed your cue

and must face zee consequence,”

screamed Prexie Hairy Zipper as
he clunked Buttock on the cranium
with a broken trombone. “Take
zat and zat‘and zat!” ogled the
Glum Club immortal. “Now, go

out on zee stage and do your

rae stuff! ye

Struck by a rotten egg intended
for bad-man Gunther Rowthling

and wilted by the amorous over
tures of chubby Roz Shiver, Buttock was crawling to safety when
a painting easle wielded by cute
_kneed Dimple Harness floored him

for, keeps.
Tycoon Inherits Yo-Yo
“{—2—3— Upidee,” quoth Q.

"Me f a Sauerkraut Buttock babbling a

       

lange of familiar sounds. “Yeah
Dal! ... Down‘with McGosh!...
No clieques with Clint! ... yeah
ee vate psnay. be detrimental,

| CASINO

An Odeon Theatre
STARTING SATURDAY

 

a MARCH 16th

“THE

  

mentaldetri and latnemirted but |
think it’s simply graaaaaaand.”

“Gentlemen,” spake a white-clad
medico, “this pitiful specimen posing as Q. Sauerkraut Buttock, Ontario tycoon, is in reality Z. Balderdash Tadpole, escaped inmate of
the ‘Jolly Elms Mental Home!’
Too bad. He was almost a complete cure—but today’s experience
put him back in the ‘hopeless’
division .. . Come now, Balderdash,
here’s a yo-yo and comic book . .
Alright, nurse, easy with the
straight-jacket!”’

“Pity, pity,”’ sobbed McGosh, understandingly. “Always grieves

me to see anyone whose sanity is
impaired.”

T.SOUARE

 

@® WITH MUNRO DAY over, and

_the weaseling season begun, the

shack has become very quiet lately
with no sounds other than the purring of pencils across paper, the
squeak of pens and razor blades on
tracings, and here and there the
quiet pop of scabbers coming loose
from a sheet.

There is a good deal of disappointment among the shacksters
that the Council inquisition into the

affairs of Mike after the banquet

ms to be falling through. Probthe most disappointed person
ike himself, who spent two
lining up a string of wit} to testify he was a sober,

“quiet, (or in other words), per
fectly ordinary Engineer at the
time of the disturbances.

Munro Day passed peacefully
enough for most this year, the only
startling event being Jack Morrison’s appointment as Freshman
Representative in the Horizontal
Club. A brilliant future-is predicted for the lad in this organization.

Our sympathy is extended to
Snuggs, who, although he carries
a good watch, still has to be told
what time it is on some occasions.

Bell’s relations with Mount A.
seem to have come to an end. He
is so broken up over this that he
has been noticed taking long walks
down quiet streets, with no company except a gorgeous blonde.

If there is one thing that is out
of place on a street car, it’s a
goose. A couple of girls found
Leverman’s so offensive recently,
that they threatened to get off the
ear. A

ORPHEUS

Mon., Tues., Wed. March 18-20

“FLYING SERPENT”
and “FLAMING BULLETS”

Thurs., Fri., Sat., Mareh 21-23
“BEHING THE GREEN
Meter
“CODE OF “THR LAWLESS”

CAPITOL

Mon., Tues., Wed., March 18-20

“HOLD THAT
~ BLONDE”

| with
EDDIE BRACKEN

C]
Thurs., Fri., Sat, March 21-23

 

  
 
 
 
 
    
    

AWARDED GOLD “D’s ON MUNRO DAY: Dalhousie students who
were presented with the coveted gold “D’’s Tuesday evening prior to the

Munro Day Show.
Archibald, Joyce Hart,

Left to right (first row): Larry Sutherland, Connie
Leah Tremaine,
Pat Ryan, Eileen Phinney, Gordon Hart.

Rennie Garrett, Janet Gillis,
Second row: Alec Hart, Mr.

 

CANADIAN CAMPUS

® KNOWLEDGE is in year-round
demand, judging by the increased
summer-school facilities offered by
nearly all universities during the
coming vacation. These summer
sessions are intended chiefly tor
veterans working for credits in the
rush-up courses. - Regular summer
schools such as Queen’s Summer
tadio Institute and McGill’s French
School will of course operate as
usual. .

At St. Francis Xavier University
special summer school will start
about one week after the regular
term ends... They will finish around
the middle of September, one week
before the fall term begins.
Courses offered are in first year
subjects and are being held specifically for ex-service men although
other students may enroll.

The courses offered during the
summer term at Mount Allison U.
will consist probably of regular
first and second year subjects. The
term will begin on May 23 with the
annual six weeks summer-school
for teachers offering the usual educational courses opening in July.

 

“Knowsey”

® GREETINGS goons—have you
all recuperated from last Tuesday
night? The big day of the year is
over and everyone is settling down
to a life of work, work, and more
work (fun isn’t it?). Well, the
dirt seems to be flying in all directions, and since it’s my business to
know all and tell most of it—

Attention all! The biggest news
since V-J day! To all yo’ dear,
sweet people, whom Knowsey has
offended in his column, he will redeem himself next week (he certainly hopes). Yes, next week the
question will no longer be, “Who
is Knowsey?” but “Where is?”
(Bang! Bang!) For this scandal
writer, this (blank, blank) good
for nothing will be exposed. You’ve
guessed it! Knowsey’s name will
appear in this famous paper next
week. So, dear readers, if you can
stand the suspense for just one
week, the whole story will be told.
O woeful day!

Art Burgess, our popular Studley
Engineer, is still pursuing Edna.
(I didn’t say he succeeded, but he’s
still trying.) However, his brother
isn’t doing’ so badly—so Jean tells
us. Afterall, techniques run in the
family, as well as Engineering
ability. .

Jack Goddin (when he attends
campus activities) really takes advantage of all the opportunities.
Roger! Jack,

The girls at the Munro Day
Dance really had a long stag line to
pick from (when they had the
chance). In it, a girl could find any
type she desired. However, one of
the stags suggested that they wear
placards to help out the girls, one
saying “Honest, Vertical, and Intelligent”, and the other “Horizontal” or “J ust as I Am” (on Munro

1 s

. wilh mmpene 4:

aot ae ;
_s 2 se be he :
ee ae ater
a eee Pn ad gi en p- .
Ve AL. Ween ‘ as oi y * os “4 . / > ;

Dalhousie University has a January-July session which was organized at the beginning of this
term to improvise for 120 late
veteran registrants. This course
will cover a normal year’s work in
first and second year subjects.

McGill will offer summer courses
for veterans in first and second
year Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering and Medicine. Nonveterans cdn take French summer
school only.

At the University of New Brunswick in addition to regular summer
sessions in’ Arts and Science the
freshman class of veterans which
entered in January at the temporary Alexander College campus, will
move to the university proper to
take courses requiring laboratory
facilities vacated by regular classes in May. These special students
will then be able to enter second
year in September.

No additional courses are being
given for veterans at Acadia University but it is expected that
many will enroll in courses on the
usual summer school schelude.

At Queen’s University the unique Summer Radio Institute, the
first in Canada, offers a course in
the arts of speech writing and production for radio broadcasting.
Under the direction of Dr. William
Angus, the Director of Drama at
Queen’s, the course proved extremely successful from it’s opening in the summer of 1945,

Three times a week this group
will produce a program over CBC.
There will approximately 60 students in the institute.

Which all goes to
studying isn’t seasonal.

show that

 

 

      
      
   
   
      

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

Thomas Wallace

Sons and Daughters
Sight Specialists

—<f fie

Y.M.C.A. Building, Halifax

Phone 3-6881

OM ita ee Le Aaa AT

 
   

_ gratulations

Ernest Lester, Phil Raymond, Bill
Withrow, Mary Macdonald,

Marion
Back row:
Morton Norman,
Jim Bell.

Bill Mingo,

Alec Blakeney,
Missing from the picture:

Fred Martin,
Reeves,
Don Morrison, Jack Quigley, Don Harris, Bernie Creighton,

Kelly,
Lis

Sheila Currie,
Marg MacPherson.
Al Lomas, Clint Havey,
Blair Dunlop.

 

Forrest Flashes
MIE: D and LAW

@® MUNRO DAY, 1946. Once
again comes the only official holiday, of the Spring Term, with all
the traditions and activities appertaining thereunto. To Dugger Roy
and his able Committee, our conupon an excellent
show—one of the best we’ve seen
in a long time.

To Bruce Miller and to Ken
MacLennan, our congratulations
upon their accession to the presidencies of Phi Chi and of Phi Rho
respectively.

Socially speaking . . . Saturday
evening was a gala occasion at Phi
Chi, when about seventy-five perattended a party given to
nonor Miss Kay Whitehouse. Miss
Whitehouse, who was sponsored by
the Fraternity in the contest for
Munre Day Queen, was introduced
to the gathering by Presiding
Senior Bruce Miller. The chaperons were Dr, and Mrs. Tom Acker
and Dr. and Mrs. Allan Morton.
Among those present were Dr. and
Mrs. Clarence Gosse, whom Phi
Chi was especially happy to welcome after Dr. Gosse’s recent return from overseas. Miss Whitehouse was guest-of-honor at supper
on Sunday also.

Phi Rho Toast Withrow

A similar party was held at Phi
Rhe Chapter House on Robie St.,
the night before Munro Day—or,
let us say, Munro Eve. Guest of
honor was Miss Marion Withrow,
Phi Rho’s candidate at the doings
on Tuesday. During the course of
the evening, she was appropriately
crowned Queen of Phi Rho in the
presence of numerous of her admiring subjects by Master of Ceremonies Al Mercer. Chaperons for
the cecasion were Dr. and Mrs.
Whillans and Dr. and Mrs. Collier.
To sum up, a good time was had
by all.

At this time we are pleased to
announce that yet one more of our
brethren has entered. upon the
ways of married life. The wedding
of Lt. (N/S) Elizabeth Stewart to
our own Stu Maddin took place at
St. David’s Presbyterian Church
on Munro Day at 4 P.M. The best
wishes of the entire Medical School
will follow Betty and Stu toward a
long and happy wedded life.

Sons

Heard cutside the Hall the other
night: “Thanks for the squeeze.”
“Oh, that’s all right, the pressure’s all mine.”

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT

soe Christ

7.45

A YOUNG PEOPLES’ RALLY
oe eed for YOUth!

eet hinge

a

Page Three

  

© ONCE AGAIN MUNRO Day has

come and gone and for most of us
another pleasant memory has taken
the place of expectation and enthusiasm. Only a few short weeks
of the present term remains:
“So much to do, so little time, etc.”

We wish at this time to congratulate ime various members of

every field. oT es os ihe
Law basketball os a
edging out the onee pre ud ™
a hard fought overtime t Lusi
on Munro Day the | t g2
total point series to !
by a basket and a he |
final game of: thi
series we predict a
for our lawyers.
We learn that Pat F

new type of cigaret
old man, aren’t ‘they?

Mon., T

Thurs., Fri., Sat. March 24
“SON OF LASSIE”

with Peter Lawford
and Donald Crisp |

 

A BENDABLE,
DEPENDABLE
COLORED LEAD

Imagine a lead so
flexible it will bend
like a bow!

Imagine a lead that
will take a point in
the dullestsharpener
.. . and make over
4,000 check marks
before it needs repointing!

10c each, less in quantities,

wary

atiae
ae. want te 2% ee sate)

Se TCT,

EAGLE “CHEMI* SEALED VE RIT HIN CARMINE RED Zo

3

=

j
ety

 

15

j cc ILORED: PENCILS

Pb tee a ” : x
= ms 7

> ) ace uemiy dine ;

= nS aa eaten aga

  
  
  
    
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
  
    
  
    
 
 
  
  
 

 

*

 

‘
ees Xavierians & U.N.B.

| In Intercollegiate Final

| @ THIS WEEK-END DALHOUSIE plays host to five other
| Maritime colleges, U.N.B., Mt. A., St. F.X., Tech and Acadia,

| as the first Maritime Intercollegiate Basketball Tourney. ever,

to be held takes place at the gymnasium starting at seven

o'clock tonight.

Collegiate Basketball Championship.
count in the Tourney play and is a

The first game will see the N. S.

InterThe fixture does not

“sudden death” affair.

TEAMS IN TWO SECTIONS
The six teams are to be divided into two sections, each

consisting of three teams.

This division will be made by lot

and the drawing will not take place until shortly before the

opening tilt.

The teams in each section play off with one

another and the winners of each section will meet Saturday
evening at eight o’clock in the Tournament final.

GAME MAY BE BROADCAST

Fans will have lots of chance to
see some real basketball as there
are three games carded for tonight,
two games Saturday morning and
Saturday afternoon and the final
clash

aturday evening. There are
ities that the Saturday afgames. gull be broadcast

THNS but this report

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
  

nd play will feature
sketball seen in
e time and will
‘ with the calii fans witnessed in

N .B., Dominion
wmpions for the
rated as favVboast a potent
e is, rangy guard
t high scoring
Wead the N.B. lads
reful watching.

| Strength

pefuls will be at
id the coach is carBi ten men for acathe hectic week-end. Inn the lineup are Captain
fin, Mac MacDonald, Ralph

ed ieee

——

 

ease ea

 

 

Lawyers End Interfac
Schedule Atop League
Go Thru Without Loss

® * CONGRATULATIONS to the
Law hockey team who \have completed their games without a defeat and head the Interfaculty
hockey league with 12 points.
Next in line to the Lawyers are
the Arts and Science squad with
10 points, who are the only ones
to come close to the Legal sextet,
being defeated only 4-3 in a close
match.

Medicine ended up third with

 

Cooley, Bob Knight, Eddie Rogers,
Blair Dunlop, Alex Farquhar, Art
Robinson, Berney Creighton, Adam
Smith. The Tigers have been practicing religiously for the past week
in preparation for the tourney and
are in tip top shape.

Tech will present an entry of unknown quality. Since the Engineering gents have such a small registration, it was agreed that they be
allowed to amalgamate with King’s
College team. With the best material from the two squads they
should have lots of potency.

“I thought yoy invited me to see your etchings.”
“Nonsense! We're here to Light Up and Listen™

* “light - Up - and - Listen”
With SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

Listen CHNS, Thursday, 10:30 p.m.

Be Smarr-look SMART

 

 

RNEY STARTS TONIGHT;
OLLEGES REPRESENTED ©

 

 

 

 

Hoopster Turns Pie-eater.. .

 

MUNRO DAY SAW the inauguration of a new sport here at Dalhousie,

the rugged art of pie-eating.
captain of the basketball tg
from the Men’s

Above is pictured Carl Griffin (right),
m, being edged out by Leon Currie, stalwart
Residence™im an exciting phase of the contest.

 

Dalhousie Takes Maritime
Title In Badminton Play

@® LAST WEEK-EN

ID Dalhousie was host to the Maritime

Intercollegiate Badminton Tournament which saw teams from

Mt, Allison, Dalhousie and Kings

in action. On Friday, team

matches were played and as a result Dalhousie was declared

the Maritime champion.

Elimination tourney on Saturday.
sentatives covered themselves in glory as they

with most of the titles.

 

Curtain By Holding
St. Mary's To 3 - 3

@ IN A VERY uninspiring hockey
game at the Arena last Friday
night, Dal and St. Mary’s played
to a 3-83 tie. This was chiefly due
to the disgraceful ice surface, so
bad, in fact that the opposing
teams hardly touched one another,
for fear of falling in a puddle.
During the first period Dal kept
most of the play in St. Mary’s
territory, and Crowell finally made
a nice shot from the corner to
make the only score of the p6ériod.

from Clarke. However, due to the
sloppy defensive work around the
Dalhousie nets, the maroon and
white managed to rap home two
goals to end the period with a score
of 8-2. Both teams were very tired
during the final canto and St.
Mary’s added another to their
total to tie the score and the game
ended with both sides trying for
that winning goal, but the game
stood at 3-3.

Lineup:

McKeough, Wade, Graves, Clark,
Frazee, Churchill-Smith, Blakeney,
Currie, Crowell, Knickle, LeBlanc.

Following these matches came the

Again the Dalhousie repreralkéd away

between Bill Pope of Dal and
Bruce Bauld of the same University. Pope took the first game
handily, but in the two remaining
bouts Bauld pulled a few tricks out
of his hat and won two straight
to become the holder of the singles
crown,
Phillips — Smith Win

Virginia Phillips and George
Smith ure the newly-declared mixed Doubles champs by virtue of
their hard-fought victory over
David Nickerson and Marie MacDonald of Mt. A. Smith walked
off with another title also as he

Mt. Allison net players took the
Women’s Singles championship as
Betty Evans trounced all comers
to win with ease. She also teamed up with smart Marie MacDonald
to edge a victory over Pat Ryan
and Virginia Phillips to take the
Women’s Doubles Championship.
Great Success

Credit for the great success of
the meet is due to. George Smith
and Virginia Phillips who worked
hard in preparing for the affair.
Professor Mercer, erstwhile Maritime champ, gave invaluable assistance in refereeing and coaching the
Dalhousie enthusiasts.

 

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

    

On the Cidelines

By ALEX FARQUHAR

 

® THE HOLDING OF THE MARITIME INVITATION Intercollegiate
Basketball Tournament at Dalhousie this weekend marks an epie not only
in the’ sports’ history of Dalhousie but also in the sports’ record of all
the Maritime Colleges. The idea is. novel to Halifax although there
have been basketball tourneys in two other parts of the Maritimes.
Hach year the University of New Brunswick sponsors a tourney for all
the high schools in New Brunswick and last year a meet was heild at
Cornwallis, which allowed only service teams to compete.

If this venture at Dalhousie proves successful, it is hoped that it will
be made a yearly event.
operation and good feeling of one Maritime college with another, and it
is -the biggest boost basketball has ever received in local circles, Let
us, as Dalhousians, and hosts to our sister

The idea is good. It encourages closer co
Universities around us, lend
Mur support by appearing at the games. Let us show these other
collegians that Dalhousie has not the uninterested Student ‘Body that
she is reputed to have.

SHORT SPORTS ... Acadia University trounced Dalhousie and U.N.B.
last Monday to become Maritime Intercollegiate Swim champs... Law
and Frosh are tangled up in a two-game total point series for the
Interfaeulty basketbal! crown-—in the first game the Frosh took a twopoint lead... St. F. X. ice squad have challenged the winner of the
Maritime Senior title—it should be an interesting affair . . . Western
University won the Big Four Intercollegiate League title by nosing out
the powerful Varsity Blues of Toronto .. .St. Joseph’s College, N. B.
Intercollegiate champs forfeited the: Maritime crown to St. F.X. . .
Mac MacDonald, hefty guard on this year’s edition of the Tigers is a
former star fullback with Ottawa Rough Riders and the Ré@¥ina team—
a few years ago he was offered an athletic scholarship to Tulsa University—runs a nice 440, too ... Dick Currie, erstwhile high scorer for
the heckey Tigers, will see action next week with St. Mary’s Juniors
when they tackle Ottawa St. Pats on Halifax ice.

 

Os tes pat eight points and close behind are Bauld Singles Champ Ti ‘ L t i.

f the Engineers with 6 points. . Feature match of the series was ig resses ose Ou in i WO Games
Easte

eo Pucksters Ring Down the duel for Intercollegiate singles

To Potent Mount Allison Lassies.

© Last week-end the Dal girls? fasta. A passes and the forwards.
Senior and Intermediate hoop — sinking . nineteén points, to the
teams dropped two games by slim Sackville squads’.13. io
margins to Mount Allison, seores ~The Intermediate squad wera off
being: Senior 83-28, Intermediate jin the shooting angle and missed
28-19. The games were played on some heartbreaking baskets. On
the Mt, A. floor and return match- the whole their floor play and team
es will be played here at Dalhousie work surpassed their opponents.
on March 28rd. Jessie Sherman’s sharp shooting
P. Jones Nets 17 kept the game fairly even until the
The Senior team played with ex- ast few ‘minutes of play when Mt.
cellent form and proved their abik A sank some lovely shots.
ity, which has been greatly in ;
doubt since the Acadian swamping.
Play was close all the way with J.

Lineup: Ist Team: P. Jones 17;
Hart, S. Currie 5; I. Robertson

and his double partner Bob Blois . ; 4 Tear 5a .

™ The second period opened with two ida a > Dp Pat Jones leading the Tigress scor- 6; %. Pentz, J. Robertson, E.
7 i, #7 sakes i. 90n. isipay- 8.4 aa ing parade with 17 points and G1 Cruickshanks
10re ick seores by C ill- § ade s and Gra- S.

more quick scores by Churchill- ang Pop to take the Men’s Doubles. Bila ay Ca Te iv Ui

mith frou. Curse land Samekle land doing a lot of scoring for the 2nd Team: J. Sherman 13; F.

Mounties with 22 markers. The,sec- Doane 3; N. Sherman 3; L. A.
ond half was fast with the Dal Hayes, M. MacPherson, V. Leonguard intercepting many of the _ ard.

 

 

EATON’S

Book Department

Located on the Main Floor

Offers a Wide Range of

Titles for Your Selection

F it’s reading» matter you want—be sure to visit EATON’S!
. Our Book Department, on the Main Floor, offers a grand
selection of titles, including both fiction and non-fiction. Drop
in at any time and browse around.—Choose books to enrich your

own library—or for prizes and gifts!

|

|

\

eg wre

i = .
cr a

a

ao

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

oa : : @ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
ell ais fone, The natural oils in BRYLCREEM

HATON’S Book Department—Main Floor

  
   

    

nit PUR we te er

ee Ty ee et
