 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
    
    
   
   

eo ,

Smiling blissfully through it all, the typical Freshmen and Freshettes

are caught impromptu, while in the background Frosh-terror Faulkner

is preparing terrible vengeance on an

ing gum too fast.

unsuspecting Freshman for chew
 

 

After the gruelling initiation one of the Freshmen could stand it no
longer, and here he was snapped slowly going to pot.

Pausing on this last picture, we feel the Frosh class looks just a bit

too happy about it all.
that we wouldn’t be in tears.

 

"W otintheheck Do You
Think We're Doing Here”

“MINORS, FORTY NINERS’

@ WHEN, as is its wont, the massive door to the library
swung open, ready to admit anxious throngs of Dalhousians,
ready to shovel more of that education stuff into them, a few
quiet innocent little things were noticed peeking out from

the base of the bust of the venerable ninth Earl.

When asked

what they were doing there one sweet little thing piped up
with a shy “Wotinthe hell do you think we’re doing here?

We're frosh!”

 

University Mourns .. .

 

RED PAYNE

@® TO THOSE who knew him the
effect was intensely felt and to
those who didn’t know him a shining example of unforgettable personality was kept from their lives.
The former group of people were
in the great majority for he was
the type of person whose presence
not only formed an omniscience
being but attracted and magnetized

-all who are associated with him.

To the Freshman who comes
hesitantly into the hollowness of
the gym there seems to be nothing
missing, nothing removed or taken
away. It is just a gym, that is

(Continued on page 4)

Freshmen!! They’re with us
again and isn’t it sweet to see those
fresh, trusting little pusses leering
up at you? So thought the Sophs,
at least, and in no time a welcoming’ committee was formed to make
them feel at home. The first job
of the Sophs was thought to be
that of making them happy, and so
a list of special privileges was
prepared.

Since the senior walk is such a
short cut, the freshmen were allowed to use every other walk on
the Campus, in order to get a more
complete view of the University.
Just to make them feel at home,
they were allowed to use the back
doors of all buildings. To promote
better health, Frosh were allowed
to refrain from smoking in the
Gym Store, and to give up their
seats to upperclassmen. Due to
the large number of colds among
the girls at Sherriff Hall, Freshmen
were allowed to stay away from
the place. Frosh began to feel
very close to Dal, after being allowed to crawl up all stairs.

In dress, the mode for the week
was contrast. Girls pranced around
wearing a black silk stocking
apiece, with make-up on the right
sides of their pretty faces, while
on the left side they displayed the
natural, or dawn wan type of cosmetic. A touch of charming decollete was added by having freshettes wearing their dresses inside
out, while the men had one trouser
leg rolled up to the point of daring.
Freshmen wore natty green bows
in their hair, while freshettes

Of course if we were lassoed by something like

 

VOL. LXXVIII

Great increase in Dal Re

To Address Students

 

PRESIDENT KERR
who will address\ members of the

University Thursday, October 11,
at 12 noon in the Gymnasium.

 

sported a nicely matched group of
three. The final touch of the ensemble was given by a large
placard, of a soothing green shade,
bearing the name, faculty, and
phone number of the wearer.

 

NEW PRESIDENT GRADUATE OF DAL AND
FORMER MENTOR OF PINE HILL

@ ON JULY 22 of this year, the
beard of governors of Dalhousie
University announced the appointment of Rev. Alexander E. Kerr,
M.A., D.D., principal of Pine Hill
Divinity College, Halifax, as president of Dalhousie. Dr. Kerr suc“eeeds Dr. Carleton Stanley, who
resigned his post last spring.

Dr. Kerr’s appointment was approved unanimously by the governors after several months’ consideration of all candidates. A
statement announcing his appointment says Dr. Kerr “brings
to Dalhousie considerable knowledge of other educational institutions and problems throughout
Canada, 17 years’ successful experience in meeting the public in
large Canadian cities, six years’
administrative experience in a
Maritime educational institution,
and a thorough knowledge of Dal
-housie’s entire constituency.” ~~

Dr. Kerr is the fourth graduate

of Pine Hill College to step into


the presidency of a Canadian University. The others were Dr.
Gordon of Queen’s University, Sir
Robert Falconer of Toronto University, and Dr. Thomas of the
University of Saskatchewan. Dr.
Kerr is a native of Nova Scotia.
The new president is 47 years of
age, was born at Louisburg, N. S.,
attended the public schools there
and at Glace Bay, and entered Dalhousie in 1916. He enlisted in the
Royal Air Force in the First Great
War, obtaining a commission in
England. He graduated from Dalhousie in 1920, and from Pine Hill
in 1921, and received his Bachelor
of Divinity from Union Theologieal Seminary, New York, in 1922,
and was awarded a scholarship for
further study by that institution.
As an undergraduate at Dalhousie, Dr. Kerr was active in debating and discussion groups and
early manifested those qualities of
penetrating analysis and ready and
skillful presentation of the essen
tial facts of a subject, which have
made him a leader in the councils
of his church. It was these qualities, improved by post-graduate
studies, private reading and travel,
combined with the wide experience
gained from residence in the chief
sections of Canada, which led to
his appointment as Principal of
Pine Hill. In Pine Hill, Dr. Kerr’s
alert mind, positive view of life and
practical wisdom have born fruit
during the last six troubled years,
not only in the greatly improved
financial position of the institution
but particularly in the revived interest that has been shown by its
entire constituency throughout the
Maritime Provinces and Newfoundland.

Dr. Kerr is married to the former Nessie Beaton, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. George Beaton of Sydney, N. 8S. They have four children,
Donald, who was in the Canadian
army but now -is attending Dalhousie, George, Joyce, and Moira.

HALIFAX, N. 8., OCTOBER 5, 1945

 

’45-’46 Gazette Editor
J. C. McLaren Wins
Bracken Award

® THE BRACKEN Editorial
Trophy, donated in the spring to
the Canadian University Press for
annual award to the C.U.P. papers
with the best editorials on matters
of nation-wide interest, was won by
the Dalhousie Gazette. The prize
winning editorials were written exclusively by the Gazette editor for
the year 1944-45, James Clark Mc
aren of Ottawa, and to him alone
is due all credit.

The judging committee consisted
of: Gillis Purcell, Assistant General Manager (now General Manager) of The Canadian Press,
Toronto; John Bird, Editor in Chief
of The Winnipeg Tribune; and
Elmore Philpott, Vancouver columnist. This committee was chosen
by the C.U.P.’s National Executive.

Owing to the little time in the
session when plans for the award
were completed, editorials for the
contest this year were not subject
to the test of national scope.

The following is quoted from
Mr. Purcell’s letter of May 28rd:

“On behalf of the judging committee for the Canadian University
Press Editorial Competition I wish
to advise that The Dalhousie
Gazette was selected both for
clarity of expression and for development of thought in its editorials. The committee, which
gave the winner a wide margin of
snperiority over the closest competitor, felt that its editorials were
logical, concise and—thank God—
short. The selection of subject
matter was interesting, timely, and
intelligent.

Other competitors were The McGill Daily, Queen’s Journal, The
Varsity,.The Manitoban, The Sheaf
and the Ubvyssey.”

Jim McLaren is returning to Dal
this year to study for his Master
of Arts, and Gazette readers will
have another opportunity to appreciate articles from his talented pen.

 

ATTENTION!
ALL MALE STUDENTS

Regular semi-annual meeting
of the D.A.A.C. will be held in
the Dal Gym on Tuesday, Oct 9,
at one o’clock.

Agenda: Changes in the Constitution.

a

No. 1

 

gistration

«LaS

Over 300 Veterias Enroll;

Law School

Tripled

@ AT LEAST eleven hundred students have registered in
regular courses at Dalhousie University this term, The Gazette
learned yesterday. This figure represents an increase of more
than foud hundred over last year. The number of ex-servicemen entering the University exceeds three hundred, and

others are arriving daily.

In addition, there are several more

students taking special subjects only, and their names are not
included on the regular student lists.

 

Glee Club to Stage
Shakespearean Play

@® THIS YEAR’S major activities
of the Dalhousie Dramatic and
Glee Club, as outlined last night
by President Harry Zappler, are the
productions of a Shakespearean
play, a musical, and the formation
of a college band and orchestra. It
is hoped that later in the year concerts may be given presenting
artists from both the Halifax
Academy of Musie and the Conservatory of Music, both organizations being associated with Dalhousie. The play, “The Merchant
Of Venice’, is to be presented
during the first week in November,
with the musical to be presented
later in the same month. Tryouts
have been held and rehearsals have
started for the play but all students interested and willing to

‘accept a small part are invited to

attend rehearsals.

Former Law School
Prof Dean of U.N. B.

® CONGRATULATIONS are extended from the Student Body and
from the Gazette staff to Professor
G. F. Curtis, former teacher at
Dalhousie Law School, who was
appointed dean of the newly formed
Law School, at the University of
British Columbia. Professor Curtis
was an extremely popular member
of the Law Faculty and took a
great interest in student activities,
being Adjutant in the DalhousieKings Contingent C.0.T.C. He was
secretary of the Senatus Academicus and was held in high esteem
by all with whom he came in contact with.

The great jump in enrollment Is
particularly striking in the Law
Sehool, whose numbers have more
than tripled those of the preceeding year. The first year class has
sixty-eight members, as opposed to
eighteen for 1944-45, while the
second and third year classes show
increases of five and three respectively, bringing the grand total to
ninety-five.

Medicine Shows Slight Decrease

Registration in the faculty of
Medicine is approximately one hundred and sixty. This slight increase
is due both to the absence of the
fifth year class, which graduated
earlier in the summer, the last of
the speed-up courses, and also to
the fact that Med School was able
to maintain almost its regular registration during the war years.

Engineering extra
hundred students, while Arts and
Science have their 1umbers another two hundred, chiefly
because of the number of returned
men registering in the pre-professional courses.

Commerce have also taken on a
new lease of life with more than
sixty students, as compared to
their thirteen of last year.

boasts an

boosted

New Facilities Taken Over

To increase their facilities, the
University taken over the
King’s annex and the Wren Barracks, which built on the
campus in the early years of the
war by the Department of National
Defence. The first building has
been transformed into a men’s residence, complete with a common
room, while the engineering and
geological departments have moved
into the other.

ATTENTION!
MARRIED STUDENTS
All those wishing to have the
privileges of their Students’
card extended to their wives,
please contact Clint Havey at
Law School.

has

were

 

 
 

we 2 ea. ms at ., ns yey a

ae oe ‘Gar :
As oa Be Ee eit
A

 

 

is if : Raney. : eS oe ve é‘ ’ “f : u = eI a
pm ‘oe x | a wf Ye Lo. . ie ee ae Me i ¢ Ks \ : be . ( “LETTERS ¢ to Th e fam oO U s s a i | oO r t r a d e Mm a r k
Cl i? . yi e eve, i As . ree . ; = . B
ie Bae, | Lame es ‘Masher : Bob MeCleave wee li if
rs oR, eS > of unfailing quality. A
ee * ZT Associate editors: or aa y
es 7 ) News .........-. Blair Dunlop The Editor, aaa EN
Pe a - Don Harris Dalhousie Gazette. Sea. eam re. = * 4
Sports ........ Alee Farquhar With the First issue of the = RES Oath : ,
Features .......... -Al Lomas (Gazette, I should like to put forth ioe aaa a
ovdest Student Publication Literary ....... Morton Norman the suggestion that the Dalhousie ee a

 

Photography ... Don Morrison

p pssislaiads And The Liberal Arts

  
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
 

 

ar n em are many who, save for the
countr fer to provide the necessary funds,
erwise never have been able to afford
education. Great credit would cer» due this Canadian democracy if this

but more than all these things together: it
makes him a more suecessful human being.
For the study of the liberal arts involves the
study of life from the human viewpoint, how
our greatest men have lived it, what our
greatest thinkers have said about it, and the

Band be reorganized this year.
Much of the colour formerly present at our football games and other
sports events was lost when the

Council and one from the Student
Body, who will act as organizers
of the Band. The purpose of this
letter is to ask all those who are
interested in becoming members of

 

OO TT, te et RE oo, ne — om

  

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in

Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining

 

   

een, band became a war casualty. We Pe
SS the nation cat the present are better off with a knowledge of law, medi- jaye the instremants,, ana this
; ipo fight and win cine, or engineering and nothing else than year, with a greatly increased stue ol ng rges from their with no knowledge at all. dent enrolment, there should be no
earl, taking advantage of the The result has been a general snub of the iticulty ia flndinc eultable talent,
the country has awarded them, aye liberal arts. And this snub is in keeping with — -ppis is one good way in which you .
ng at their local university forcourses the tendency of the past few years RUNG yes oan work dowards A i
L 0 the granting of a professional accent was upon those forms of education that Gola Sy) tail as have a lot-of o¥
meri produce what might almost be called “mechan-  ¢,,,
head these men this means etl ee practical returns” within a short length By the tine thi» Inttet far pub-up of their studies from where of time. lished, the Students’ Council will
cs 3 ie, or even five or six years Some familiarity with the liberal arts, 0D jo yechela its first saecting, ‘and CIGARETTES
xe percentage, however, are enter- the other hand, makes a man not merely a ,,, Base toiesetee ae Uliat micotity for the first time, and included more successful lawyer, doctor, or engineer, inertia: ntudehic,, ones Ptom™ the 4

place the advantages ‘of a university the Rand, to cooperate with this :
re reach of her ex-servicemen be only manner in which all our civilizations RAVES rommiftes in every ‘way posaible, Twenty Free Scholarships of $75 each for Nova Scotia students. »
nary to placing them within the reach struggled through it. , so that an early start may be To Students with Engineering Diplomas:
her citizens able and willing to appre- Many professional graduates can give a wade. Let’s get behind this effort Modern Equipment, Instructional Staff with Individual Experience.
them. — sound judgment on some problem that con- one hundred per cent. : ;
Vhile a few of the men coming back hope cerns only the particular field they have Respectfully yours, Write or Call for Calendar of Advice to
to postpone the day when they must face specialized in. But can they give a similar Laurence Sutherland, F. H. SEXTON, President |
poe alone, and, in the meantime, take a judgment on some problem of life? Can they Prcaltant. Misdonts? Onaneil +A |
longed d holiday at someone else’s expense, even think pep aneP sy nt nee s ese! |
“ve ek ajority of them appear to be in Yet frequently during their lives they will be :
ned They are older, more mature, called upon to do so. Because of the superior What Dalhousie :
y e ere! : tae th; aN sv by ticht of @ Yes, sir, your suit actually FEELS like new |
re practical experience of this world social positions they will occupy by right « Ex ects from You afler. Cousins huve Stansted ae |
hen they went away, and they are con- their supposedly superior education they will p AES Be lave Sanitoned it. — iy? Be- 3
‘the years of normal living they have be asked not only to make decisions for them- es Pulte cause Sanitoning restores certain materials to :
tie 3 foveal Nhe obitar aot ivilesed © SROUND the campus this most the fabric that give new cloth its rich feel.
ve the ee prey have opi selves a " 7 : e e other not so privileged 5 oytant topic woud probably be 2
the o unity they have now to _ persons : Sie Gite. ‘WT Pa. “ th s 5 : ae
ncaa far G fodtion in Hife that The varent advances of science make it 2 “oT 2mPopular one. mea @ And, what’s more, this unique dry cleaning
bring them financial security and the highly improbable that the structure of our acti aoe oper Scag oe eases out even deeply ingrained soil, grit and
as eek happiness. With grim deter- civilization can survive another war. The Oe ee ee een nen ost Baauiet- a my . cleans to ‘the very heart of the ; hey brace themselves for the coming recent increase in industry of organization, | eo elas A gata ntriies bo Ha bre. Only Cousins has Sanitone Service ots
th books and examinations; and no specialization, and mass production make it ("8 07% one tiat | in Halifax.
lame them | highly improbable that the democratic way of >¢ Something like “Study your fool
lame them. Se reo: y heads off’. This is untrue.
e of the obvious scarcity of time living for which we have fought so desperately /OEESE ie AEE eG OE ae _ @
taki ng every short cut available in and paid = dear a price can sustain another rogram which a as its Ties OMUSUIVS =.
themselves up to the required economic depression. Never more than now a Ae oe. Ge: a swalh Saindesl CLERBERS LRUIDERRS OWES sIORAEL
And the universities are co-opera- has the world needed a majority of successful on S oe >

 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  

by cutting down on the prerequisite
1 necessary for entrance into the profaculties, and by eliminating some of
: courses not absolutely essential to the

intenance of the technical standard of the

human beings.

In order that these ex-service men may
fully appreciate the precarious perch upon
which their much sought for security rests,
no matter what- proficiency they personally

  
   
   
   
  

personality. What Dal expects of
you is to try to follow this program. The prime function of college is (and as some _ students
would probably add ‘unfortun
PLANT CALL OFFICE: ROBIE AT WEST
DOWNTOWN: BARRINGTON AT GEORGE

 

 
 

  
   
  
  
       

ticular profession. In many instances they may attain in some special line of endeavour, ¢!Y’) to educate. This thought c :
so. Seeder, and suffer from so Sones in een that they may = ain continue the ae No D AL OFF HOURS
ortage of professors and facilities that struggle to preserve this security, let their mY) HRs ‘
ie ee no alternative. Both parties argue, opportunities to acquaint themselves with the ‘Yims, well-meaning and - Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the | |
_ and no doubt argue correctly, that these men liberal arts be not entirely eliminated. good philosophic content, but be- | |
: cause they are so much over- MARITIME BUSINESS
ait wrought, they are received with ;
: oO o K ‘R E v iE Ww . disinterestedness. This, neverthe- ul
. less, is the motto Dal offers you. COLLEGE
“Well, what about the play” you
_ The Distinguished Artistry of Jean Stafford ae ge rgb geo 73 College Street
“posto ADVENTURE” distance. Substituting for her beauty in the child’s brief life and as a necessary part of its program.
¢ by Jean Stafford mother as chambermaid at the death, in his pathetic burial, and There are few things which can Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
. summer resort hotel in the village, in Sonia’s strange love for young better develop the well-rounded seven courses are admitted as General Students.
Gime, ne TS dis- she secretly watched and admired Nathan Kadish. Her perverse ob- personality than sports or other The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursday be:
e Diana Ao ink fed: bed A of a. a heh Miss oe to touch . birthmark on eo niga rim 7.30 to 9.30 | Tuition $5 per month
ye ride. Her attachment became an is face—in site of being grotesque work and no play very seldom . :
; | agpberses a. obsession in time, and her fondest —is yet memorable and haunting. fails to make Jackadullboy. Dal sais e mansoni : TY PEWRITING
ry d difficult to Sa oS a wish from earliest childhood was The second part, entitled “Pinck- expects you to try your hand at iets . e va nat : aid in future years | :
Dueiiare: israo: books to that she herself might someday £0 ney Street”, is concerned with one sport at least, and to have at rany day Tuition counts from date of* Registration
» there Be ie Witch: 4 to Boston with Miss Pride to live. Sonia’s life in’ Boston with Miss least one other extra-curricular ;
iat _ When, however, a gan The story is how her dream came Pride, and particularly her slow activity. b

Cs
Be con

   
    
    
  

in itself : a hiatanve Lis that part
+ Hor. Boston—the proud,.rich, aristo
eratic section—which, in the words
the author, “begins somewhere

1) ia of — however,
obably

imaginative “experience.

true, and what the reality turned
out to be.

Falls Inte Two Selections

Unfortunately perhaps, since the
transition is incomplete, the book
falls into two sections — one of
Sonia’s life in Chichester, and the
other of her life in Boston. Part
One recounts the tense, emotional
turmoil of her early life, aggravated by her mother’s perpetual
nagging, and her father’s brooding
sensitiveness. Discouraged, and
driven beyond endurance, he deserts the family, after which the
mother withdrew into a shell, re_ fusing even to leave the house, or
to admit anyone but Sonia.

Bil and conludes

Although the chapters are rather
long, and sometimes even tiresome,
there are yet passages of great
ee, more accurate strength and power — moments

a strange horror in the mother’s
persecution of her infant son, born
two or three months later, her
hatred finding vent in the sadistic
pleasure she derived in the child’s
_ periodic fits. Sonia’s slow realization that her mother is gradually
ouse going insane is tense, concentrated
in the emotion. There is a kind of quiet

the auto { 3 ography of
small fishing

even of haunting beauty. There is.

realization that beneath the outward decorum of Boston aristocratic society, there was yet an
inward life of almost desperate
futility. That, in essence, constitutes her adventure—the numbing discovery that’ the madness
from which she thought she had
escaped, the hollow, desperate
futility and insecurity of her Chichester life, lay all around her still
in the well-bred purlfeus of Pinckney Street. Although brilliant for
its satire and wit, its cool contempt, it lacks, however, the more
powerful moments of the earlier
part. The construction is more
indefinite, as if portions had been
cut away andthe remainder joined awkwardly together.

_ Style Unique

Miss Stafford’s style, which’ is
curiously reminiscent of Proust,
and sometimes even of Henry
James, is yet unique and highly
original. It is beautiful prose,
quiet, restrained, and hauntingly
suggestive.

There are,of course, flaws. But
the book is bigger than its mistakes—much bigger. It is a brilliant achievement—a striking and

~

. 2 2 <P ou =. <= <=* Ex - Rc. a . <
Dea en JR an 9 een Te Nr ae a ceaneneeene eases oa ae 8 Fa

Some students, or perhaps professors, might try to belittle the
importance of these other-thanstudy activities. The experience,
the confidence, the social contact
that these activities can give you
are not to be under-rated. They are
for success as are good examination marks; for success with society
is important as well as success in
the field you have chosen. In ten
years, if John Jones is able to get
along with people better than you,
can you console yourself with the
knowledge that you always made
better marks than John did?

And so, dear Freshman and
Freshette, we offer these few words
of encouragement which we hope
may “decrease any bewilderment
and confusion that might be yours.
Dal helps those who help themselves. Sincerety and clarity of
purpose are your duties; and it is
the duty of Dal, with your cooperation, to-help you fulfill that
purpose,

 

original first novel. As one critic
has written, “American letters
have been enriched by a unique,
vigorous, and remarkable artist.”
—L, M. N.

Balhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music linginceding. Bilgemaey, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Math
| Reagan ane History. » Mathematics, Modern

Centials Se of recognized Standing, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional F
aculti
Course in Public Administration ate

Many valuabl
aed e scholarships, on entrance and, through the
The Professional Faculties
in

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, aver
age ab ‘
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a a oe

Residence

. Shirreff Hall, residence for women,
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men,

 
 
   

  
 
    
   
 
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
     
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

T a, a by
nself to the fact

esterday.
d to the change”.

an, whose name cannot be
1 because he hasn’t got any,
Ss reviewer that he had
vu ip a. few pointers on the
: ot eer age which we

   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
     
   
   
  
 
 
  
    
    
    
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
 

LARRY SUTHERLAND
'- @ LARRY’S lanky frame and easy
t cH smile have become pretty
) well: known around Dalhousie these
h past few years, so well in fact, that
“de st year he was elected by popular
vote to be chief executive of your
re st udent council. To some, however,
i nd particularly the Freshman
class, he will not be quite so well
‘known. So—meet aoe Sutherda and,

a Born’ in New etasaiw: Larry
“spent most of his life in Pictou
ou ntil 1941 when he entered Dal7 housie. Since that time he has
entered into college life as few
: others have done and at the same
“time has been able to be a better
; than average student. Taking part
sin almost every college activity,
“he has at some time or other held
an executive position in almost all,
© inicloding intercollegiate debating,
ED D.A.A.C., Pharos, Arts & Science
ociety, the Med Society, and
% iy the Student Council.

_ Characterized by his placid good
our — Larry is never ruffed.

him was-spoken by a fellow Phi
OR o-er who said, “Larry is a darn
ge od head and yet he’s just one of

, the boys.”

  
       
 

OXFORD

‘October 5 and 6
"Thank Your Lucky Stars”
and “The Unknown Guest”

October 8 to 10
“FRISCO SAL” and
“A CHUMP AT OXFORD”
with Laurel and Hardy

October 11 to 13
“THERE IS A FAMILY”
and “GENTLE ANNIE”

with Marjorie Main

    
       
     
       
   
       
     
     
     
     
     

    
 
 
   
   
 

Friday and Saturday
October 5 and 6

“NOB HILL”

—with—

GEORGE RAFT

JOAN BENNETT

- Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
October 8, 9, 10

| Van JOHNSTON

| ESTHER WI WILLIAMS:

      
  
 

. Py obably the best description of.

a . Servicemen

  
 

lian student will ‘simply have ta
“ that~this will be a servicemen’s
2A noted hanger-on | at the Gym store—the local Stork
nd Joe’s rolled into one-told me in a confidential inter:
y ereas outside the Universities, the
nen must make the adjustment, here it is we that are

Bazookas, flame-throwers, and machine guns are verboten because
they are inaccurate, and grenades
because they are messy.. Anti-aircraft guns and depth charges are
to be left outside the door, because
they are too big. Spitballs are
sissy—this is a man’s age, not a
college student’s.

2. Orders for attendance at the _

Students’ Christian Movement, the

Glee Club, and debating will be

posted as in Daily Orders, Part
One. This will make attendance
compulsory at these functions, and
absentees wil! be sentenced to
spend one month at a course on the
appreciation of the problem of -the
starving heathens, to be given by
Roy, who tries to feed them. Genuine orders will be signed as
follows: ;

Prof. C. L. Bennet,

for Dr. E. A. Kerr,

(Commanding Officer, Dalhousie).

3. Anybody who knows the
answer to a professional question
will stand, the first one to be a
marker for the formation of a platoon of those in the know. They
will immediately march off and be
given a free half-holiday of com_pulsory athletics. The rest will
wash dishes,

4. Quite apart from the ser-.

vices however, is this item: No
student may volunteer for any
course other than that to which he
is asigned. This will be hard on
those who are accustomed to run
hither and yon at the slightest
whim of a Lance-Corporal.

(More pointers might be given
in succeeding Gazettes, but personally we doubt it).

4SQUAR

—_

    

@® ANOTHER October has come
and has found the centre of the
Campus shifted from the third
floor of the Science building to the
corner of Coburg and Oxford. The
new building, taken over from the
Wrens, is really Pusser, with a big
common room, flourescent lights,
and hundreds of engineers. Such
items as the long draughting tables
and Waterfield are still with us,
but the sports of bliffy bombing
with paper bags full of water, and
knocking plaster off the Physics
Lab ceiling are gone forever. The
classes in Gym Store 4 may have
to be discontinued for want of
suitable enrollment.

Survey Camp leaves a few choice
memories in the minds of the
second years ... “Ho” Bell, Walking through doors, walls, and ceilings, ‘tearing down bunks and
breaking windows, trying to get his
money’s worth out of his caution
deposit . ... Morg going back to his
hobo days and hopping off a train
while it was moving — leaving a
fresh pack of cigarettes aboard .
Snuggs reading some onda
figures through his Wye Level .
The cornboil in the bunkhouse at
2 A.M.—and about a _ thousand
other things. |

    
 
 

An Odeon Theatre

*

| Starting Saturday
October 6th

Deanna
Durbin

oe:

  
    
  
  
  
 

   
  
  
    

  
  
   
   
    
 
  
  
  
 
 
  

   

nie
Ralph Bellamy
’ David Bruce

    
  
  

 

 
 

F. O. Harry Rhude, D.F.C.

On Entering Dalhousie

® WRITING as an ex-serviceman who is entering Dalhousie,
I would like to compare the attitude of the general public with
that of the average serviceman or woman on the subject of the
continued education of those returning from the armed forces.

We have noticed that it is the opinion of our fellow citizens
that the serviceman or woman returning to university is at a
disadvantage because his knowledge of matriculation subjects
is not fresh in-his mind, because he will find it difficult to

 

Perhaps You

Didn’t Know .. .

 

@® COMPULSORY Training has
been abolished at all Canadian universities. Training will be continued for those who want it, but
will probably be less than six hours
a week. This will give you a lot
more time to indulge in the luxuries of college life . .. extracurricular activities, of which we
have many. New students, especially those who have been away
from school for several years, are
confused about what goes on at
Dal when afternoon classes and
labs are over. If you want to take
an evening off now and then, you'll
find many affairs on the campus to
interest you. The Glee Club is one
of the most active organizations on
the campus. The name itself does
not tell you very much about its
functions. This term the club is
putting on Bill Shakespeare’s play,
“The Merchant of Venice”. There
are still parts in it for you. The
Glee Club is going ahead with a
musical comedy, also to be put on
this term. You can help if you
want to. The Round Table is a
new organization on the campus.
It made its debut just last year
and aroused much interest. What
is it? A discussion group where
you can discuss anything that you
want, have speakers down, run
panel discussions and debates. It
is a medium of free discussion and
debate on matters of local, national or international concern.
The Round Table is affiliated
with Sodales, our well known debating society which sponsors
Interfaculiy and Intercollegiate debates. You will be asked to take
part. These are some of the most
popular student activities.. For a
full report on coming Sport activi
ties, see the back page of the .

Gazette. You can keep up to date
on all activities by »reading your
Gazette and watching bulletin
boards. For detailed information
on student organizations, see the
Students’ Handbook and ask the
fellows and girls who have been
here before. They’ll be glad to
help you. Remember that the
more you give to student life—the
more you get out of it. Good luck

to you.

  
 
 

ORPHEUS
Friday, Saturday, Oct. 5 and 6

“COME OUT FIGHTING”
and “RUSTLER’S HIDEOUT”

with Latest Paramount News

Mon., Tues., Wed., Oct. 8, 9, 10

“TELL IT TO A STAR”
and “OREGON TRAIL”

   
  
 
  

  
  
 

adjust himself to a way of life so
different from the one to which he
has been accustomed, and because
from the view point of education
a man’s sojourn in the armed services has been wasted.

Re-adjustment Period Short

1 cannot dispute the first point
for it is certainly true and is one
which will take us some time to
overcome. The second point, however, is one with which I do not
agree. The men and especially the
women, who became members of
the services, were forced to undergo
many hardships and deprivations,
and came to realize much sooner,
than if they had led a normal life
during a period of peace, that to
obtain any reward, no matter how
small, requires hard work and selfsacrifice. For this reason, if for
no other, I believe that our period
of re-adjustment will be amazingly
short. Considering the third point
briefly, I feel that we have gained
invaluable knowledge concerning
the problems of the men and women in different parts of the
Dominion and in different countries
of the world, and so have a greater
understanding and greater tolerance in viewing their difficulties.
Although this may seem small
compensation when compared to
the knowledge we would have gained during the same space of time
if spent in university, it is not to
be under-rated, for it is one of the
best insurances against wars in the
future.

Let us hope and pray that this
will be the last time that our men

Forrest

Flashes

MED and LAVV

® THE SESSION 1945-46 commenced on September 12th, with a
maximum enrolment in first year,
and proportionate numbers in the
other years. As we sit down with
our much abused printing machine,
we think of much on which to base
an optimistic outlook for the coming year.

Medicine extends the hand of
welcome to our first year men, in
particular to those who have returned from the services. In what
may well be a difficult assignment,
bon voyage!

Welcome Back

A great big hello is in order for
those of our brethren who are this
year resuming their medical work
—Joe Cantwell, Bun Levitz, Abie
Levitz, Jim Balmanno and Bill
Connolly.” We can safely say for
the whole school: “It’s good to see
you -back.”

We dare not omit mention of
those fourth year men who have
recently departed from the path
of singleness. Congratulations to
Ai and Betty; also to Did and
Ruby.

Reports on the summer activities
are varied—and interesting. Much
of the present fourth year was to
be found in various hospitals for
most of the time. Ivan, Harmony
and the Deacon report favourably
on the potato situation in the
Island. Frazee and Maddin (correction please, Stu) tell us that the
West is as near Utopia as ever.
Charles S. Jr, with the addition of
some bronze pigment, a moustache
and a touch of avoirdupois, remains
the same genial Chuck. Eppie and
Joe Roach remained close to New
Waterford, with only the occasional
excursion to nearby industrial
centres.

Looks Good For Year

The Medical Society looks good
for the year. Under the active
leadership of Art Titus, an interesting program has been mapped
out for ’45-’46. Membership tickets
may be obtained from your respective class presidents, for the nominal fee of one dollar. A leading
project for the year is revival of
the Dalhousie Students’ Medical
Journal. Let’s atend the meetings,
and contribute our two cents’
worth; this in particular to First
Year—the Society is going to be
yours for a few years, and it’s
going to be just what you make it.

In closing, just this: New students in medicine have come here
from many schools. Your predecessors have sometimes criticized
what they consider the lack of Dal
“spirit.” All of the extra-curricular
activities sponsored by Dalhousie
are at your disposal — sports,

 

and women will be called upon to
leave their studies and take up
arms against a foreign aggressor.

® THE LARGEST first year class
in recent years is enrolled in the
law school at the present time. . Of
the sixty new members of the law
school, the majority are ex-servicemen who are taking advantage of
the government plan for educational benefits. As the standard
required by the authorities is rather high, and the candidates
cannot afford any failure or repetition of courses, the part these men
take in extra-curricular activities
will be necessarily limited. “We
take this opportunity of wishing
them every success in their chosen
work and a speedy return to the
new unnatural role of civilian.
* * * >
@ Sadly missed at the law school
this year will be the genial countenance and voice of Professor
George F. Curtis, erstwhile professor of various phases of the law,
and C,.O.T.C. military strategist.
Professor Curtis’ guiding hand will
be laid gently but firmly on students of the University of British
Columbia’s new law school, of
which he is dean. The best wishes
of his former students follow him
to the west coast.
* * *

®© THE ANNUAL autumn spectacle of slaughter and sadism was
launched last Monday with Chief
Justice Tnonias “Hanging” Feeney
presiding when Clinton ‘“Handlebar” Havey clashed with Allan
“Bilgewater” Blakney. The appeal
by Havey was against the decision
of the lower court in the famous
slander case in which immoral conduct was imputed to Blakney’s
client Princess Youssitov by means
of a motion picture produced by
Havey’s client. At the time of going to press the bench had not
given a decision. This is the first
of six cases to, go before the
Supreme

and proved to be a great success.
A

dramatics, music, dancing in particular. Give Dal a break in this
respect and the spirit will take
care of itself.

A Word
of Welcome

Birks extend to newcomers
and returning students a
cordial welcome to bring

 

their gift problems to
Birks.
Come and visit—even if

you have no, problems,

Henry Birks and Sons
Limited
Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

Barrington St. —-— Halifax

 

 

ast, hon and enjoy yourself... Have a Coca-Cola

 
  

cb? 2 Re. '

do OF siliiien ieirislones to a Stic barbecue

Plenty of ice-cold Coca-Cola helps make any barbecue a success.
Have plenty of “Coke” ice-cold and ready to drink. When you
shop, remember to ask for Coca-Cola. Everywhere, Coca-Cola
stands for the pause that refreshes—has become a high-sign

of hospitality in the home.

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

i) :

  
 

eG
eM Nay fi

     

   

Coca-Cola and ie abbreviacion * ‘Coke”

are registered trade-marks which
identify the productof The Coca-Cola
Company of Canada, Limited. ye

 

aa ‘ i wy Te

a es ee = 5 eh et mein ae eee bide ee rs eS EEE eee med Bee 5 Be! ee ge > = Se a ae Ne

Page Three |

Moot Court of Dalhousie .

   

 

Se a"

 

~

ri
Le

fee wre,

Se Se

al

as a

 

 
1 on the Sidelines

by ALEC FARQUHAR

x

Rimememe et ~% :
+ @ WE’RE ALL BACK again and looking for bigger and better
- teams in Dalhousie’s athletic realm. Many athletes from the
—  ~~+teams of 1944-45 have returned and many more have come
_ back to us from the services. We will field bigger and better
- teams than we have during the last five years but With it all,
an integral part of our supporting life at Dal will be missing
_ —Red Payne has passed from our midst.
No more shall we enter the gym and hear that cheery
laugh that can be attributed to Red alone. Never again shall
_ We wander into his hallowed D.A.A.C. room and be confronted
with one of the truest Dalhousians of all, telling us one of his
“keep this to yourself” stories of campus figures.

oan cede ae an

CARDON EPSTEIN HILL

@ “WHAT a football team!” Those are the gleeful words on
the lips of Dal students about the campus on these brisk
autumn days. There is truth behind this sentiment—we are
going to have a great football team: maybe one of the best
in the history of our Alma Mater. Many of our former stars
have returned from the wars and a wealth of new material
is evident. .

Let’s look around and see what we have to pick from.
Notable among the returned men are Gordie Hart, stellar
varsity performer on ’42, ’43 teams, Dick Currie, a member of

the entire campus not just last
year but the whole cavalcade of
years now passed, and that person
will say: “The gym changed? Yes,
it’s changed, like the days would be
changed if the sun taken
away.”

Interfaculty Football
Underway October 9

® INTERFACULTY Football, under the direction of Don Dunlop,
looks as if it will have one of its
most successful seasons yet. This

was

And this, we are sure, is a metapher whose descriptive comparisony

No more shall we shy away from
his offer “how about a game of
821 for the cokes’, because we
knew that no person on the campus
could match his famous underhand
set-shot. No longer do the football players dash into the Drying
room after a hard go on the gridiron to have the ever-willing redhead give them one of his harsh
rub-downs.

Yes, Red will be missed. He’ll
be missed by those former students
who were used to going into the
gym to have a word with their
beloved fiery-headed friend; and by
us, the present students who have
come to accept Red as a permanent fixture on the campus and a
true friend to all. The memory of
our deceased fellow Dalhousian will
remain in our hearts as one of the
most. cherished remembrances of
college days—so great was the impression of his personality that he
ean never be forgotten.

We could never repay Red for
his invaluable services and loyalty
to Dalhousie but we can pay a
tribute to him in the same way
that .we honor the memory of
Jimmy Malcolm, another Dalhousie
immortal. How fitting it would be

wake Beiter
Warks

FAVORITES

YOU'LL PASS ALL
YOUR TESTS

WRITING PENCIL

/epITHIN
/ TURQUOISE

to institute a “Red” Payne Honour
Award, to be awarded annually to
the athlete on the campus who
gives his LEVEL BEST for Dalhousie. Red would have liked that.

M. I. A. U. Conclave
Held at Truro

@ A PROVINCIAL intercollegiate
football league was organized at
the annual meeting of the Maritime Intercollegiate Athletic Union
held at Truro last Tuesday. Five
colleges will participate: Dalhousie,
St. Mary’s, Nova Scotia Tech,
Acadia and St. F. X. In the schedule drafted each team is slated to
play each other once with two
games at home and two trips away.
A champion will be decided on the
point system, two for a win, one
for a draw.

Dalhousie will journey to Acadia
on the 18th of October and to St.
F. X. on the 8rd of November.
Dalhousie also arranged to play
host to Acadia in an exhibition
match on November 10th.

Winners must be declared in both
the Nova Scotian and the New
Brunswick—Prince Edward Island
sections not later than Nov. 3rd.,
the Maritime winner not later than
November 10th,

Similar dates were also set for
intercollegiate hockey and basketball, March 9th and 16th, March
16th and 23rd, respectively. No
schedule was drawn up for these
sports, as engagements with the
local Halifax rinks were yet uncertain, but a meeting of representatives from the five colleges interested was called for some day
during the Christmas holidays to
finalize these arrangements.

The University of New Brunswick was awarded the _ intercollegiate boxing meet for 1946, which
will be held sometime in March.
U.N.B. also plans to hold an invitation swimming meet in the
Same month. Acadia received permission to stage the 1946 intercolegiate track meet at their campus
next May.

Dalhousie announced its plans to
hold three invitation meets next
year; boxing and basketball in
February, track in October.

Captain McCormick, Athletic Director at Mount Allison was elected
president of the M.I.A.U. for the
coming year with Father McKenna
of St. F, X. as vice-president. Father P. J. McCarthy of St. Mary’s
was re-elected secretary-treasurer.
The retiring president and vicepresident were B. A. Ralston of
Dalhousie and Howie Ryan of
Uy NOB.

~ Colleges represented at the meeting were Dalhousie, St. Mary’s, St.
F. X., Acadia, King’s, Nova Scotia
Tech, St. Dunstan’s, St. Thomas’,
Mount Allison and U.N.B. St.
Joseph’s was the only absentee,
The Agricultural College at Truro
also sent a delegation to seek admittance into the M.I.A.U. for the
following year.

year the D.A.A.C. has provided
that Interfaculty players will receive meals after their games just
as the senior players. Six teams
are entered in the league and each
team is to play five games over a
period of a month. Games are to
be played on Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Fridays. However, whenever
it is possibie, interfaculty games
will try to be arranged to take
place befure the senior games on
Saturdays.

There should be no reason why
anybody is unable to come out now
since the meal problem is alleviated. All squipment is supplied by
the D.A.A.C. If you have aspiration to make a senior team why not
come out and improve your game
and have some real fun.

Following is the schedule:
Tuesday, October 9—

Engineers vs. Commerce,—12-1
Thursday, October 11—

Freshmen vs. Arts & Science—

12-1,
Friday, October 12—

Meds vs. Law—1-2
Tuesday, October 16—

Engineers vs. Arts & Science—

12-1.
Thursday, October 18—

Law vs. Freshmen—12-1
Friday, October 19—

Meds vs. Commerce—1-2
Tuesday, October 23—

Engineers vs, Law—12-1
Thursday, October 26—

Meds vs. Freshmen—1-2
Tuesday, October 30—

Engineers vs. Freshmen—12-1
Thursday, November 1—

Commerce vs. Law—12-1
Friday, November 2—

Meds vs. Arts & Science—1-2
Tuesday, November 6—

Commerce vs. Freshmen—12-1
Thursday, November 8—

Law vs. Arts & Scienee—12-1
Friday, November 9—

Meds vs. Engineers—1-2

Frosh Whipped in
“Soph” Ball Tilt

® THE ANNUAL Freshie-Soph
Softball game was played on Dal
Campus Saturday. The game, a
five inning affair, was won by the
Sophomores 25-14,

The Sophomores started off with
a burst of power and scored fourteen runs in two innings while the
Frosh scored one. In the third and
fourth innings the Sophomores
were scoreless while the Frosh tied
the score.

the same squads and recognized as a standout in Intercollegiate
competition. Other veterans seen on the gridiron are “Porky”’
Smith, Bob Knickle, Mike Waterfield, who all have held spots
on Intermediate teams of the past.

"44 Stars Back

From last year’s City Champions
we are fortunate in having the majority of our players back again.
Bob Wade, diminutive fullback, is
out for his old spot. Carl Giffin,
Alex, Farquhar, Adam Smith,
Bryce Burgess, Kev. Carton, Bugs
Mackenzie are vieing for their old
posts in the backfield.

From last season’s capable scrum
we find that Don Dunlop and Bill
Lund, two big hefties, are out and
still packing as much weight as
ever. Al Ernst, fighting frontliner, looks as if he’ll retain his position. Most felt losses are serummen Bob MacDonald, last year’s
scoring threat, and Ral Feanny,
heeler par excellence. Bob is compelled to remain on the sidelines
because. of injuries, and Ral has
left for Dublin to continue his
studies in medicine.

@ FROM the influx of new material we observe a myriad of stars
gleaming. Outstanding among
these is Paul Howard, formerly a
performer with Kings in bygone
days and returning to the campus
this year for post-graduate work.
Howard is a speed demon with a
mighty boot and a thorough knowledge of the game. He looks to be
a sure starter on Saturday. Jim
Morrow, product of Rothsay, is another sprinter who is aiming at a
wing three quarter spot. Gordon
Campbell, Air Force Dischargee
shows promise as a backfielder and
looks as if he will be heard from.
Art Hartling, formerly a scrum
man is trying the backfield this
season as is Jim Bell, Intermediate
fullback of ’43. Dave ChurchillSmith is another good prospect. It

LOCAL COLOR

For interesting, accurate reports of local events, read The
Halifax Herald and The Halifax Mail. Everything that
happens in the Halifax area
that is newsworthy is recorded in the columns of these
great newspapers, compiled by
a staff of experienced reporters. The completeness of
local news coverage makes
The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail, the most popular newspapers east of Montreal.

The Halifax Herald

and

The Halifax Mail

@® SERVICEMEN who have returned to University will
find that their clothing needs for re-entry into civilian
life—whether sporting, collegiate, or social wear—can
be smartly met from our full lines of Clothing. 
@® DROP in and see our stock at...

SHANE’S MEN’S WEAR SHOP

112 Spring Garden Road

is rather impossible to mention all
those turning out. Here are a few
more of our gridiron aspirants:
“Deak” Grant, Nate Epstein, Doug
Hunt, Harley Prime, Walsh, Bill
Archibald, Lew Bell, Fred Kent,
Frazee, and a host of others.

Coach Confident

Burnie Ralston, coach of the
Tigers, voices optimism about his
team this year and is confident that
his charges will romp away with
the City League Championship
again. The boys are in great shape
after a week of strenuous calisthenics under Ray Giberson, one of
Dal’s former greats. Scrimmages
started on Monday and we may expect a backfield with blinding speed
and a reliable scrum which will
feed that quarter-line continually.

RED PAYNE——
(Continued from page 1)

what he expected; but let that
Freshman ask a senior who knew
the gym in the previous year, indeed any who knew the gym or

is worthy of our loss. All of us
can see just that, no sun in the
gym, no resonant
laugh, and all of us realize and are
aware of the great absence in our
hearts.

On behalf of the student body
we extend to his family the condolences of each and every one of
us, for you could see grief in the
eyes of many as they glanced at,
the campus flag hanging limp, at
half-mast, against the sky.

And now in our hearts we will
keep and sanctify our own reverent
memories of Dalhousie’s son, “Red”
Payne,

magic of his

Corsages
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE>*
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

NURSERIES Limited...
38] sarrincton sT- HALIFAX

Alike

..- yet different

Lire INSURANCE companies are much alike

as to policies and rates, but actual long-term
results vary widely. We invite you to compare
The Mutual Life of Canada’s record
with that of any other company. Evidence of
the satisfaction of Mutual Life
policyholders is furnished by the fact that whole
families and succeeding generations have

entrusted ‘their life insurance programs
exclusively to The Mutual Life, and each
year approximately 35% of its new
business comes from policyholders.

Have a Mutual Life representative explain
the special features of this Company...
and let him help you select a policy adapted
to your particular circumstances.

Let a trained Mutual Life representative help
you with your insurance problems!

THE

Low Cos

MUTUAL IEE ’ Life Insurance
OF PAL [IFE . Since 1869

HEAD OFFICE ® WATERLOO, ONTARIO ~

7

 
