 

a
A

|

     
 

ff

cs

3s After the Performance ane

ape


OLDEST

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 1, 1946

7

 

Bs
re

... the Cast Relaxes

~ Glee Club Show ‘Finest

’ Ever Staged’; Direction,
’ Acting Defy Criticism

¥

i}

ae

of

— mp i gp

=

  
    
     
   
    
     
    
      
   
      
    
  
  
  
  
  

  

    

i
: ¥

\

\
\


fp
\
fe

- Play-in Years: Critic Points Double Moral

hae ie a

ri

STUDENT PUBLICATION

No. 17

Federal M.P. Delivers
Lecture’; Sketches
House Personalities

@ ABOUT 100 DAL students had the pleasure of hearing Mr.
E. M. MacDonald, Conservative financial expert in the House
of Commons, speak about ‘non-political politics’ in Room Three
of the Arts Building, last Wednesday. Mr. MacDonald, accustomed to the ways and wiles of college students, since he is a
member of the Board of Queen’s, entertained his audience with
clever and complimentary sketches of the leaders of the
various Canadian political parties and exhibited a keen sense
of humour in the discussion of active participation in government affairs by the electorate.
- Mr. MacDonald included in his
discussion the topic of education,
especially college education. In
stressing wlfat a student should
gain from a college course, he
quoted Churchill’s recent statement
that education should “broaden the
minds, elevate views, and arm
moral convictions”. This was not
the case, however, in actual practice, said Mr. MacDonald, adding
that most students left college
practically convinced that the
world began in 1900, and considered such things as politics and
government unworthy of their
attention.

ties, minority groups get a fair
chance in our country, Mr. MacDonald claimed, as the defeated
group always has an opportunity
in the following election. He maintained that “elections without
parties is like a card game with
every card wild”.
(Continued on Page Six)

 

ElectionTues.; Polls in
Forrest Bldg.; Men’s

Res. Common Room

The Dal student body will go to
the polls on Tuesday, March 5th,
from 9.00 A.M. until 6.00 P.M. in

Democracy exists in only a few
countries today, said Mr. Mac
Ache and Hartling Star in Most Entertaining

“By MORTON NORMAN . .
@LAST FRIDAY NIGHT'S performance of “You Can’t Take

- It With You” pointed a double moral: one of course the obvi
ous and intentional, and which, for the sake of argument, is
neither here nor there. But the second moral (none the less
obvious) is, however, much more pertinent: that one should
not attempt to stage a play in the Gym on the night of the

Donald, and the foundation on
which it rests, in these countries,
is the party system. Only in nations with the party system in
practice are there truly free elections, and Fascism can happen anywhere, even in these nations, if
people are apathetic to national
and international problems, and do
not support the political parties.

order to elect representatives to
the Student Council and the various student societies. The polling
booth for members of Forrest
campus will be in the main lobby
of the Forrest building. All other
students will cast their ballots in
the Common Room of the Men’s
Residence. Students must present
their Students’ Council Ticket at

Engineer’s banquet. It just won’t work.

It was a bitter lesson to say the
least—and perhaps the least said
the better. But the fact remains
that on Friday night Dalhousie
missed an opportunity to enjoy the
finest production the Glee Club has
ever staged. And I hope—out of
sheer spite—that we don’t easily
forget it.

If I had not felt so darned sorry
for the cast on Friday night, |

any rate.

But I still think it’s an extremely
interesting and amusing play—if
nothing else—and only requires a
good, rousing hamming-up to be
successful... For that reason, it was
an exceptionally good choice, involving less risk than almost any
other play that might have been
does exactly as one likes, with no
chosen. The script says that in the

don’t think T could have been per- house of Martin Vanderhof “one
suaded to see the play again. I questions asked”; and that might,
didn’t want to spoil it. But I was conceivably, explain away a whole
curious to see just what the Glee multitude of sins.
Club could do before a truly ap- Fortunately the play was expreciative audience. Well, I found tremely well cast, and the direcout. And the result was so far tion superb. Mr. Pigot deserves
above Friday night’s performance enormous credit for keeping the
- that there was simply no compari- play precariously, just on the edge
son. It was excellent in every way, of burlesque. Which was highly
and one of the most successful and appropriate; for with the excepentertaining things [ have ever tion of some very tender and apseen. pealing love scenes (which terms
Play Well Chosen I use loosely) the play is sheer and
4 The play, to begin with, is an utter farce, from beginning to end.
exceptionally good one, but not be- Any other interpretation might
- eause I think Grandpa’s philosophy have been interesting, but certainly
very profound or moving. In fact, not successful.
IT agree with Mr. Kirby that the First Act Slow ‘

_ vising things.

idea of “letting life come to you”
is a bit preposterous — especially
with characters like Donald roaming about. And in spite of a good,
steady income, I still think I’d find
it a bit difficult “to relax and enjoy life” with a basement full of
fireworks, and Mr. De Pinna superIn short, the Sycamores were all a bit crazy, and

under the circumstances, I don’t
think Grandpa’s philosophy the
least bit applicable. Not to me at

an
1S

You Will Be

LOW

'
4
.

My only criticism with the play
as a whole was that I found the
first act rather slow, and that I
was a bit disappointed with the
performances of Marion Withrow
as Alice, and Lyn Burnett as Paul.
Both seemed to have had much
more confidence on Friday night—
possibly because they felt that
after the invasion nothing mattered anyway. In Miss Withrow’s
ease, the audience’s reaction on

(Continued on page 2)

@® FINAL INTERFACULTY debate to decide Bennett Shield winner will be held Tuesday, March
‘5th, Room


    
  

‘tho .

cal

a
om
7 Fa
6
a
‘4

a
9

a |

Because of the existence of par- the polling booth.

Students Pack Gym to Hear
Candidates Give Platforms

® CLOSE TO 500 students were in attendance in the Gym,
Tuesday noon to hear candidates for the Student Council and
D.A.A.C. leadership, speak. Council prexy, Larry Sutherland,
presided over the meeting and informed the gathering that
the Council had decided to drop its request for an increase of
$5.00 in student fees, but would still ask for $3.00 for Pharos.
He then introduced the speakers.

 

“ couragement.

3, Arts Building, at 7.30

*_ - it
7 wet Pres cs | WE IMOCL | Le
a a +

   

First to greet his cheering supporters was Clint Havey, Law
nominee. Havey impressed the
audience with his excellent style of
address and spoke quite capably
about the reasons why he thought
the students should elect him, mentioning that his opponents had
committed plagiarism on several of
his platform planks, as had he on
theirs, thus eliminating any need
for a discussion of the three platforms. Havey also stressed the
fact that his agé gave him an advantage in experience over his
youthful opponents,

Supporters of the Med candidate,
Dougger Roy, received the next
chance to give their man vocal enRoy stressed the
salient points in his program,
which included better campus
unity, improvements in the athletic
setup, and a better showing of Dal
spirit.

Third candidate for the presidential post was Bill Mingo, Arts and
Science nominee. Mingo urged the
audience to vote for the man best
qualified for the position, rather
than vote for a platform or a
party. He openly accused Law and

     

.
.
oor
a
Ms

   

Tae aa

 

Ballot Drafted For

Memorial Plebescite

Want Commission Named To
Investigate, Submit Report

@ ONLY A handful of students
were present at the Forum held on
Thursday, concerning the type of
War Memorial Dal students desire
to be built in the near future. The
purpose of the forum was to get
suggestions, and the ideas thus
collected would be put on a ballot
in order for the student body to
have a chance to express its views
as to preference.

Appearing on the ballot will be
the following items:

A Residence, Swimming Pool, an
Auditorium, Rink, a Student Union
Building. é

Students will be asked to show
preference in this group, numbering them in order of choice.

A commission will be appointed
to study the feasibility and costs
of the various projects, and its
findings will be presented at a
Forum in the very near future.

y

8 will Be ask
|. a,

  
 
 
    

 

I. S. S¥ Open Campaign On

Campus for Dollar per Student

= : 4 wemier sec
‘Want Voters to Sign Over Caution Deposit

 

® THROUGH THE LINES of barbed wire can be seen P.O.W.’s forming
up under the watchful eyes of their German guards. These are the men
the I, S.S. assisted during the war.

K

What Is The 1.S.S.?

A constituent organization of the World Student Relief with headquarters at Geneva, Switzerland.

The only international organization exclusively concerned with
welfare of students regardless of race, religion, or nationality.

A center liason between students, professors, and universities throughout the world.

A co-operative organization through which “have” students help “have
not” students.

An agency for the promotion of universal student solidarity based on
common interests, aims and achievements.

What Has It Done? |

In peace time I.S.S. has used its funds to equip libraries and centers of
recreation for students, to subsidize those in need, to promote international student exchange and international conferences.

It aims to keep students everywhere in touch with one another and to
further’ international co-operation.

In war time I.S.S. acted primarily as a relief organization specifically
for students in prison camps and occupied territories of Europe and
China.

1.5.8. representatives having had access to prison camps in Germany,
brought books and study materials thus enabling students to continue their work towards a degree.

Where necessary, notably in China, I.8.S. provided students with food
and medical supplies. This aid was made possible by contributions
from students of 14 different countries. In the period 1987-45,

nearly $1,850,000.00 was administered for student relief in 18 war
devasted lands.

What Is It Doing?

In Europe the LS.S. is chiefly concerned with the rehabilitation of displaced students and the reconstruction of universities in war ravaged
countries. This program includes supplementary feeding, student
loans and self-help projects, the upkeep of hostels and an international sanitorium for tubercular students.

In China the present living conditions of the students are so deplorable
that a very large proportion of the funds allotted to that field are
being spent for the purchase of living essentials.

What Can We Do?

The very least we can and must do is to give generously. Be sure to
sign over your Caution Deposit to the I.S.S., and make personal
contributions to Connie Archibald, Alec Stewart, or to members of
the Council or the S.C.M.

Last year Acadia raised $1,000.00 and Mt, Rllison $1,377.84 as compared
with Dalhousie figures for 1945 of $400.59 and for 1944 of $592.58.
THE OBJECTIVE IS. ONLY $1.00 PER STUDENT—SURELY

DALHOUSIE CAN RAISE $1200.00

What the I.S.S. Did for Us...

@ IN MY EXPERIENCE as a P.O.W. for three years
I can vouch for the value of the International Students g
Service. The libraries in our camp to a large extent
were supplied by the LS.S. Anyone desiring a book ‘or
a set of books merely wrote to that organization’s
Geneva office, and in due course, the request was
usually granted. Books provided us “kriegies” with |
our most important and most enjoyable form of recrea- |
tion. They were indispensable to a healthy state of |
mind. From a purely practical point of view I would }
like to point out that nearly 17,000 P.O.W.’s applied to §
write examinations during the war. Many of the books |
required for study purposes were obtained through the
LS.S. The work of the LS.S, in aiding the youth of
the liberated and conquered countries of Europe to
re-establish university libraries is a vital one.

GORDON S. BLACK.

@® YOU WERE ASKING me about my experience with the work of the
International Students’ Service in actual practice.

: During recent years I studied for some time on the continent.
Unfortunately I was not welcome at the best German Universities, but
the Germans very kindly kept men in a nice quiet spot and erected a

barbed wire fence to ensure that I wouldn’t be subject to outside distractions while working.

As you probably know, classes were held in all prison camps on
almost every conceivable subject and there was a constant need for text
books for both teachers and pupils. During the eighteen months after
the fall of France, all Red Cross transport was engaged in.bringing food ~
to us and it was upon the I.S.S. that we had to depend for books.
the prisoners. A large percentage
of the books in our well equipped
libraries carried the stamp of the
I.S.S. All prisoners were very
grateful for the help given and |
think that the LS.S. certainly deserves any assistance we can give
them to help carry on their work.

HARRY BURNS.

SUPPORT THE I.S.S.!!

SIGN OVER YOUR CAUTION DEPOSIT

the

 

Blaek

They did an excellent job in
finding books in English in all
parts of Europe and sending them
to us. Later in the war they sent
from England a constant supply of
books, correspondence courses and
information on educational matters, in answer to requests from

 

   

  

 

| ie

eee Oe n :
4 i J n , q ’ - - _ ie ™ 7
’ tak ae att OWE} ™‘ 7
‘WREN YOU VOTE ON TUESDAY
; i. ,. @ 7 th f 7 . L “" “it ipl Yi La : . “mE . . c , = =. age . ine i . ” “et 7 —
; “ ae pe ,, rs

SS \

 

,
  
  
   
 
       
      
      
    
      
     
 
   
     
   
     
        

  

  

THAT WAS THE QUESTION asked the

courageous but insignificant portion of the
oe student body which braved adverse weather
Dy a conditions to attend the forum in the gym, i - nasium yesterday noon. This coming Tuesday,
- when the whole campus goes to the polls, Dal-housians will be handed a list of possible war
memorials and told to indicate the one they
ince Drafted at yesterday’s forum, this
list includes a men’s residence, a swimming
pool, an auditorium, an artificial ice arena, a
Gales union building, and a scholarship fund.
- Once the type of memorial desired has been
- determined, and its cost ascertained, we will
_ be asked to pay part of this cost by. approving
an increase in the Council fee. The rest is to
be earried by a special campaign among the
Alumni.

Bethe When a student looks over this list next
_ Tuesday, there are several considerations he

should bear in mind. If he be the loyal Dalhousian who wants the kind of memorial
‘which will prove the most valuable to the
University, he will place his check-mark alongside “men’s residence”. For when the campus
is unified through the centralizing influence of
a single men’s residence, large enough to
accommodate all the non-city male population,

    

   
   
  
  

  
   
 

  

 
 
 
 

  

 

  

  

  

student body behind many objectives and
achieve great improvements. Until that time,
however, we seem destined to remain a collection of factions, each struggling against the
other as we travel over conflicting paths,
resulting in perpetual deadlock that prevents
much progress of any kind.

Because the men’s residence is the most
valuable contribution possible to the students,
those Dalhousians whom it would commemorate, if they could be consulted, would undoubtedly prefer it to all others, and therefore
it makes the only fitting war memorial. THIS
IS NOT A SECONDARY CONSIDERATION,
aah: for unless we are willing to slip down to the
ah _. slimy level of using the memorial element as
re: . eampaign bait for extracting subscriptions
from the Alumni to make additions to the
University plant, we must remember that
whatever we do, we are building a war memorial FIRST, and expanding the University’s
facilities SECOND. It is not the contrary.

From a reliable source it has been reported
that the University intends to build such a
___ residence independent of student help (which
- could scarcely make a significant impression
upon an expenditure of this size) within the

  

 
 

  

 
 

    

 
 

 
 

  

 
 

    

  

  

: _--« @ FOLLOWING ARE THE RESULTS of the recent
survey of cost of living, in Halifax, representing a
coverage of two hundred.and eleven ex-servicemen
now attending Dalhousie University.

The item “Current Monthly Expenses” includes:
_ Room and board, or room plus meals, or rent and
Sie rresice (according to the type of accommodation
» occupied); light, water and fuel; taxes; laundry,
personal necessities, and street car or bus transportation for commuters,

The item “Periodical Monthly Expenses” was de
(149)
Single
No

   
 

 
 

  

  

     
   
 
 
    
   
        
    
  
 
 

: | Current monthly expenses................ 56.98
Recreation and donations, monthly........ 9.13

     
  
  
    
   
  
 
       
       
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
  

Periodical monthly expenses ............. 24.40
Total monthly expenses wie wes tidrene sees 90.5
Average monthly income from D.V.A.,,
plus National Family Allowance........ 60.00
“ Amount student has been forced to “cut —
: ye _ into” savings in order to live........... 28.65
‘ _ Answers to the following questions:
eee Doubtue | Yes No ful Yes No
a If you depend on present
total income, can you comBe _ plete your course?......% 40 50 10 42 46
by 2. Have financial difficulties
ry seriously hindered your
studies SO) tarts, 0e. vo, 8 'OIS).47 - 15-85
3.1 Will the pressure of your.

adies allow you to accept
r rae Work evens + Go. LL 86 .

  
    

ae” a? i
so, aoe 4 Beale
Te

# Dee a

more than 76 vente devoted to the interests of the student body.

M What Kind of Memorial Do You Want?”

then will it be possible to organize the whole |

Dependents.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Editor ........+.+.-. Bill Mingo
Business .. Bob McCleave
Associate editors:

News ........... Blair Dunlop
| Don Harris

Sports ........ Alec Farquhar
Features .......... .Al Lomas
LASETOTY s 6 sks 5's Morton Norman

Photography ... Don Morrison

Cartoons—Bob Tuck.
Circulation—Nita Sideris
Mary Farquhar

 

-next few years, a circumstance which intro
duces many complications. Disregarding the
fact that the residence would make the best
memorial, should we, the students, consider
only those kinds of memorials that the University authorities are not yet planning to
build? Or should we present them with what
funds we may raise with instructions to use
them for the residence and construct it as our
memorial? Finally, we might sit back and let
them go ahead with a war memorial residence
alone.

The last suggestion is not a good one. Not
only do we want a memorial, but we want to
render practical assistance towards obtaining
one, that it may be, in part at least, OUR
memorial.

A proposal put forward at yesterday’s
forum would solve the problem very nicely.
The University build the war memorial residence alone, but so design it that the ground
floor be left entirely for a students’ union (a
students’ club house) with facilities for offices
of campus societies, a snack bar, lounge and
pool rooms, and a general recreation room for
dances, meetings, etc. The students and the
Alumni together could raise sufficient funds
to equip this union and perhaps even pay
something towards the cost of its construction.

This proposal seems quite within the limits
of joint student-Alumni endeavour. It ensures
that the men’s residence will be the war memorial, and yet it permits the undergraduates to
make a real contribution. It demands a building that would be an asset to any educational
institution in the nation.

The combination residence-union is the
perfect answer to Dalhousie’s need. Not only
is a residence required to bring together all
the out of town male students now lodged in
various parts of the city, but the union to
unite them under one roof with the Halifax
students, who make up a sizable portion of
the student body. This achieved, our great
problem of campus anarchy would evaporate,
and, once properly organized, we might accomplish many things. The more attractive
campus life resulting would out-draw all other
Maritime universities, thus building up our
registration. Swimming pools, auditoriums,
rinks, ete. would follow in shorter order than
they have in the past.

Bear this in mind on Tuesday, and discuss
it among yourselves. Be prepared to. submit
definite objections or to lend solid support at
the next forum. NOW is our opportunity to
progress. We must not fumble it.

_ VETERANS’ REPORT ON COST OF LIVING

termined from figures, on the basis of a seven month
period, covering such items as: Clothing, medical attention for dependents, dental attention for self and
dependents; equipment for University course (including books); transportation from home to college; and
insurance.

The amount shown as “cut in” on savings does not
necessarily represent the difference between income
from the Department of Veterans Affairs and expenses, as some students have other sources of income.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(26) (22) (11) (3)
Married Married Married Married
No One Two Three
Dependents Dependent Dependents Devendents
98.92 110.27 116.82 123.67
8.57 8.23 8.45 | 5,00
41.76 42.00 42.73 28.66
149.25 160.50 168.00 157.33
86.12 100.91 115.05 123.66
47,95 48.81 43.14 31.00
Doubt- Doubt. Doubt- Doubtful Yes No. ful Yes. No ful Yes No ful
12 23 77 -——. 27 46 27 3831/3 662/383
— 18 82 — (27 % — 8381/3 662/83

LETTERS to

The Editor

 

 

@ AN ARTICLE entitled “Sex in
the Classroom” appeared in the
February issue of the READER’S
DIGEST. It impressed me with
the seriousness. of the question,
“Should sex be taught in the classroom?” The unanimous answer
given by the students of the University of California was that such
instruction should be an integral
part of the education of every
student over sixteen.

I immediately thought of your
“Letters to the Editor” column as
the best medium for bringing this
vital question before the entire
student body. It is my opinion
that those in responsible positions
in such student organizations as
the S.C.M., the Sororities, the
Fraternities, the Students’ Forum,
the Sociology Club, the Engineering Society, etc., should try to present the frank, open, and sincere
opinions of their respective organzations to this column. The
Gazette is the surest medium of
presenting the question until such
time as general meetings may be
held.

Albert Johnstone.

 

Ghee Club Show

(Continued from page 1)

Friday night must have been inspiring to say the least. But
frankly, I found it a bit irksome.

Otherwise the play stubbornly
resists any adverse criticism whatever. It was obviously well directed — so well, in fact, that from
beginning to end the play moved
with the utmost ease and inevitability—apparently without any conscious plan or direction. And that
is surely the greatest test of any
director’s skill and resourcefulness.

On the other hand, it would be
difficult (if not impossible) to
overestimate the tremendous contribution of the cast—certdinly the
most talented ever assembled on
the Dal stage. Beyond any doubt,
the' finest performances of the evening were those of Gene Machum
as Penny, Art Hartling as Kolenkhof, and Eileen Phinney as Mrs.
Kirby. Kolenkhof, according to
the secrift, is “enormous, hairy,
loud, and very, very Russian.” The
“very very Russian part” Mr. Hartling had to supply of course. But
otherwise he had only to be his
own personable self and couldn’t
have been more admirably cast.

Gene Machum’s performance, as
Penny, was delightful, and all the
more surprising, considering her
experience. She came very close
to stealing the whole show—a difficult thing to do — but under the
circumstances something for which
I would have greatly commended
her.

Of the enormous supporting cast,
it is possible to mention only the
outstanding few—Don Harris as
Mr. De Pinna, Bernie Creighton as
Donald, Pat McKinnon as Rheba,
and Janice Thomas as Gay Wellington,. Supposed to portray the
part of a “nymphomaniac and a
terrible souse”, I can’t honestly
say that Miss Thomas was well
east — not without being libelous.
But it was a wonderful job of acting, and extraordinarily convincing.

I like Lloyd Soper’s performance
of Grandpa, and was especially
pleased that he affected so few
mannerisms. Nothing would have
been more futile or more exasperating.

I was disappointed on Friday
night (for obvious reasons) that
neither Rileen Phinney nor Roslyn
Schaefer received the recognition
they so justly deserved. It was a
shame. Both parts are minor
gems — especially that of Mrs.
Kirby. Her entrance into the Sycamore’s living-room is comedy of
the highest order. On Saturday
night she carried it off to perfection.

But it is unfair to pick favorites
in a east so outstandingly good.
It would be necessary to devote a
page to all—and that is impossible. As for the play, it was the
finest I have ever seen performed
at See and the most en
 

 

After Any Show
Before Any Meal

To press-time daily the latest

nabit to read.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, March 1, 1946

      
      
    
   

LIGHT UP AND
When it's time out for fun and
games Sweet Caps just natur
ally join the party for penring
enjoyment.

Bank on a Sweet Cap
for satisfaction —- anywhere. .
And when you tune in

“LIGHT UP AND LISTEN” WITH

SWEET CAPORAL {4

CIGARETTES
STATIONCHNS

Every Thursday Night
10.30 b. m.

. anytime!

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE,
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

Or ..-s

Think of ...

The
Green Lantern

 

DIAMONDS ARE
BRILLIANT

It is often said that Birks
diamonds are more brilliant,
but why should this be?

Birks experts grade their
own diamonds and select only
those whose color, purity and

news coming over Canadian cutting will insure extra brilPress and British United Press ae E :

wires are published to keep y:

students abreast of world and ;

local events. Make it your daily Henry Birks and Sons

Limited
Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

Halifax

The Halifax Herald
and Halifax Mail

Barrington St. 
Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan
in peace: “Say Schwartz and be Sure’. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Sutter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc. . as
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses,
The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

2

Inelusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc, course, about $190 a year

Residence

NUR/JERIES Limited...
381 Barrington st HaALFAX

 

 

i

*)

ee

te

a


oe

       
    
     
          
   
    
     
     
 
     
     
    
    
     
     
     
    

SS

    
       
        
        
      
 
        
       
    
   
      
      
       
     
        
       
     
     
      
       
  
         
       
      
         
     
   
   
      
  

 

  
  
    
     
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
       
  
  
      
 
 
  
      
 
  

Lj

:
a
J

.


a

a 4

ia)

®

4

y

    
    
 
 
    

‘Academy and Q.E.HL.S.

.
J (
; .

4
t
<

as

BOB WADE—

President of Dalhousie’s greatest
society, the Engineer’s of course.
A Haligonian who got his high
school education at Halifax County
Came to
Dal in '48 to start his career as
an Engineer. Active and able in
sports—his main ones being hockey
and football. Yes, he’s a social
man, too. In fact, little Dan Cupid
fixed things up a few years back
with a lass by the name of Shirley.
The bells haven’t rung yet, but we
expect to hear them soon.

DICK CURRIE— !
We engineers proudly claim
Dal’s hockey star as the Secretary
Treasurer of our Society. Diek
arrived in this good country from

that “place” Toronte, a few years

back. Went to H.C.A., came to
Dal, left for service with the
R.C.A.F. and returned to us in 45.
Started his great (7?) hockey
career by playing with some
“alley gangs” in the “good” city.
Received a M.B. degree (Master of
Burps) a few years ago from some
unrecognized wmiversity. Seems
good at making punch too, and of
course a good cook always. tastes
his products.

CHARLIE SMITH—

One of the Dartmouth boys.
Vice-President of our Society.
Holder of the distinguished business position of President and
Managing Director of the Dartmouth Pinball Busting Association.
Likes banquets, trips and “wet”
seasons. Chief interest is in Geology. Last year he won the only
scholarship given for Engineers.
JOHN KINLEY—

A. fair-haired, left-handed specimen of Nova Scotia’s manhood
from the great metropolis of
Lunenburg. Has always been a
kind host to the boys when they
sojourn near Pine Hill. His sportsmanship, ability and friendly man
ner were rewarded last Friday at’

the Banquet, when “Jay-Jay” was
presented with the Bob Walters
Memorial Award, the highest
award from the Engineering Society to a graduating member.
ZEN GRAVES—

Everyone knows him — he gets
around. High School education ?—
weil, he’spent some time at H.C.A.
and Q.E.H.S. Walks like a monkey but couldn’t be one bécause he
fell out of a chestnut tree once—
don’t worry, he only broke one leg.
Quite a business man, but women
are his chief business. ‘“Love’em
and leave ’em” he says. Made a
mint of cash by selling Christmas
cards. Became a_ hero-photographer during the Magazine Explosion. Gets letters from his fans,
who call him “Zenophon”. Started
a transportation line to Bedford
recently, but we believe opposition
‘got teo tough or else “she” did.
Plays a rugged game of hockey

and football. he ‘“seabs”
too.)
DCUG SAWYER—

Comes new a guy of Hollywood
fame. Yessir, he’s Turhan Bey’s
double on Dal’s campus. Gathered
up some knowledge at H.C.A. and
Q.E. Came to Dal in ’43. Took
over the job as President of Local
Union of Scabbers and Weaselers
last year and has ably handled it
ever since. Likes Harry James,
Oscar Peterson. Indulges in bridge
and golf. Has had alcove experience and letter-loves too, so we
hear. Made a nuisance of himself
by playing (?) a bugle at military
training camps.

LEW BELL—

Our candidate for President of
the D.A.A.C. Active in sports—
his chief ones being basketball and
football. Good trackman, too.
(Not meaning to be a politician,
but how about your vote?) Lew is
a New Glasgow native and came to
Halifax a few years back, spending some time at Q.E. Likes short
pants, gabardine coats, blondes,
and above all, long week ends.
Likes Amherst too, of all places.
Almost became an author while at
Truro, writing letters which would
put even Milton in the shade.
DON ISNOR—

A Haligonian of “Falcon” fame.
Snatched up some high school education and came to Dal in ’44 to
beeome an Engineer. But this was
to be only a part-time job. Our
jovial ““Dubby” has been seriously
heart and soul behind the “Falcon”
movement. It is an organization
formed for athletes who participate in baseball, basketball, hockey
and ping pong and even checkers.
Latest report is that an orchestra
is under consideration now. But
he can always make a joke and
bring a laugh from the driest of
cads.

HARLOWE FIELDING:

Out of Dartmouth comes one of
our freshmen. Small, bespectacled
and inclined to be nosey. Reports
say that his favourite occupation
of late has been that of raising

(Yes,

 

H with ferry operators and
tram conductors. Has a hobby of
collecting things which include

street car numbers. Even left one
bit of evidence of such a crime in
our “hallowed” drafting room.
Started a new fad recently by
roller-skating to a high school
dance.

“NAN”:

Who’s Nan? Why she’s a lady
ameng our number of 197 of
Canada’s future Engineers. She’s
a friendly soul who is always on

hand to meet us every day, rain

or shine. We’ve grown accustomed to her affections to each and
every one of us) You think she’s a
wolverine? Well, maybe there’s a
connection, because Nan is our
mascot, a little white dog.

BOB WALTERS AWARD

@® BOB WALTERS came to Dalhousie from New Brunswick
in the fall of ’86. During his stay at Dal he was not an outstanding student, but he was a very good average student.
He became an Engineering representative on the Students’
Council and in his senior year was President of the Engineer
ing Society. ;

Bob left Dal in the spring of 40
with a B.Sc. and an Engineering
Diploma plus great prospects for
the future. During the summer,
however, these prospects were obli
' terated forever when he was

fatally injured in a hunting accident in his native province.

The following year the Engineering Society decided to present an
annual award in his memory,
known as the Bob Walters’ Memorial Award. In choosing the win
ner it was decided that he must be

a member of the graduating class,

have an average academic standbs ing, participate in a
have a general all-round likeable

eties, and

  

the Engineering faculty, name a
winner. The award is presented to
the unsuspecting at the Annual
Engineers’ Banquet.

This year after much serious
thought, the committee decided the
winner should be John J. Kinley,
of Lunenburg. John came to Dal
in ’43 as Freshie-Soph and during his three years here, he has
become a very popular student.
John, or J.J. as he is usually called, has failed exams like every
other normal person, which entitles
him to enter the ranks of the average. He has participated in interfaculty sports, being a member
of the Enginneers hockey team for
the past two years and at present

  

THE BOILERMAKERS’ BULLETIN

ANGELS AND DEVILS

 

TWO HUNDRED STRONG, they have taken up residence at the
low corner of the campus. Crowded in among hundreds of freshmen,
new drafting tables, Dal’s best common room (equipped with real ash
trays, enough tables for a real bridge game, a good Society store, latest
copies of Life, Newsweek, Engineering News, Roads and Bridges, New
Yorker, Calling All Boys, Mickey Mouse, Esquire, Flash and Fish, etc.,
etc.) the Engineers classes of °46, 47, and °48.

EDITORIAL

@ THE.PART PLAYED by Engineers in the disturbances
during the recent Glee Club presentation deserves nothing less
than a sound spanking for all Engineers who participated in
the disgusting affair. That the nucleus of the noisemaking
rabble was made up of Arts students who took advantage of
their anonymity in the midst of a large body of Engineers
offers little excuse to the small group of Engineers who not
only did nothing to stop this racket, but added their own noise
to it. Such actions are extremely childish, and reflect on the
good name of the Engineers as a whole. Action, in the form
of a severe reprimand should be taken WITHIN THE SOCIETY, and the student body at large should realize that
Engineers were not solely responsible for the disturbances,
and that only a small percentage of the Engineers present had
any part in the affair.

 

 

SURVEY CAMP...

 

“HARMONIOUS MADNESS”

or It Should Happen to You

@® “TEACH ME HALF THE GLADNESS, that thy brain
must know; such harmonious madness from my lips would
flow; the world’ should listen then as I am listening now.”

Shelley addressed the above toa to give them

straw for their

. (> Dogiely
ead ~S—iéséMAhthle'yy
wang oy ut

skylark. Well might it have been
an Engineer. For those who have
not had the pleasure of seeing the
Engineer on a bright summer’s
day, blending with the nature of
Bible Hill, we will elaborate.
Truro welcomed the Engineers
with open arms; they had come to
look upon the choice of their fair

. city as being one step ahead of

choosing a site for U.N.O. Three
weeks of hard work were ahead—
but did the Engineers shirk? No
—they set up bench-marks (wellestablished points for further survey) and turning points (minor
flirtations) right into the heart of
Truro.
With such vim and vigor. did
ee oi 3 Se EEA Fe je.

“taKe “to their }O ber

  
  

     

    
 

 

  

wooden bunks.

Many of the boys displayed a
keen sense of “know-how”, Morgan for one, got the idea of building an ice-cream factory along the
“level circuit” for the children of
Truro. And to further his aim, he
recruited several of the children
and put them to work in the capacity of “official apple-buyers”.
The Fale., on the other hand,
amused the little darlings by walking along Prince Street playing his
invisable yo-yo; and to add variety
to his programme, he would use
his ears as pencil sharpeners.
B.B. our own miniature “Tarzan”
would climb into a second storey
window and back again four times

      

r a day. He claimed it was to keep
TIN (Continued on age
va i ;

°

i

  

     

THE BOILERMAKERS’ BULLETIN

MEET THE ENGINEERS

Page Three

 

“Good Men and True”
Make Merry At Banquet

@ DINNERS are revealing affairs. They are much in demand
as annual functions for society and other organizations, they
are also very democratic. Royalty revels in them, the Federation of Water Front Workers has at least one a year and even
those proud members of the W.C.T.U. sponsor them as worthy

substitutes for more enjoyable ways of wasting time.

Dinners

fall into two classifications: those without punch and those

with punch.

The dinners sans punch remain firmly on their

foundations of clay and pass into posterity as another ‘dinner.
They are, except for the fact that there is no punch, as revealing as a Sunday School picnic and are remembered for the
witticisms of the speakers or for the faux pas of the chairman.

But dinners plus punch are the
true banquets. Such affairs quickly
loose themselves from the binding
curves of well worn ruts, and proceed efficiently along that straight
line of entertainment so satisfying
to the aesthetic sense of a true engineer. The speakers are forgotten,
the chairman is forgiven, even the
food is complimented. Such was
the Engineer’s Banquet. ‘The
speakers were good; even at a
“have not” dinner they would have
been acclaimed.

Their brevity was only surpassed by their coordination in being
able to rise and sit down so
quickly. ‘The eloquence of the
chairman, Mr. Wade, was as
smooth as the running conversation. Students who had looked at
Dalhousie as a lost champion of
liberal education, embraced it as a
giver of light to depressed and
bored souls.

Of course there were serious and
memorable moments. We listened
with interest to the guest speaker
Mr. King; his talk on The Dieppe
Raid was both interesting and appropriate. A highlight of the night
was the awarding of the Bob
Walter’s Memoral to J. J. Kinley.
This award is given to the best all
round fellow in the graduating
class, and though the task was a
difficult one, because of wealth of
material from which the committee
had to chose, their choice is indeed
to be complimented. A memorial
silence was held for the late Prof.
W. Copp and we remembered with
a mixture of pride and grief that
it was the first one “The Chief”
had missed since the first banquet
had been held. He was really the
founder of our Society and one of
his last acts had been of preparation for the banquet.

Aftermath

As the banquet broke up with
that famous ye!l of the Engineer’s,
a strange restlessness crowded to
the fore. What to do now? The
night is still young. Some men
wisely took to their homes, but a
goodly number laboring under the
impression that the play would
now be over and that there would
be a dance in the gym, moved to
the scene of the crime. What happened then is history. As history
it is recorded that “those ignorant
engineers” flocked to the gymnasium and_ spoiled the play.
Though this is perhaps a half
truth it would be much more just
to say that the cat-calls, ete., that
spoiled the play for the audience,
became noticeable after the engineers moved in. As the inevitable noise of entering ceased, the
engineers were quiet. Then, no
doubt realizing that their actions
would be blamed on the engineers,
a small group of Arts men began
to give cat calls and hoot that
obnoxious horn that was at that
time in their possession. After
this nothing remained sacred. The
engineers entered into the disgraceful preformance, and are to
be blamed for their support.
Nevertheless it should be remembered that not only did the engineers not start the disturbance
but that with the exception of intermission the noise was largely
supplied by other elements in the
audience.

And so the night drew
weary close. Some independent
parties proceeded far into the
night, but the banquet is safely
over for another year and the engineers are safely back in their
doghouse .

to a

 

So They Were
Kicked Out of...

@ SAINT PETER, standing at
the Golden Gate, gave a sigh of
relief as the last of the latest
bunch of Engineers of Dal. passed
into the peace and quiet of the
eternal city. But Saint Peter’s
sighs were just a bit too premature, for he did not know who this
bunch were.

He had been napping on the job
of guarding the portals when he
was awakened by that old familiar
Yell, Yell, Holy H !
Engineers of D.A.L.!

Building bridges, drinking beer,
Leave it to the Engineers!!
“Heavens!” says he, “ther’re here.
I knew the inhabitants of the
nether regions would throw them
out for causing more heat in their
place of abode.”
recalled the two lines which start
the song he had so often heard:
Who was it put the heat in H
Slammed the door and rang the

bell,

Engineers of Dalhousie.

So Peter had taken the only
course open. He admitted the
celestial bunch and had just then
emitted the sigh of relief.

Half an hour later, he closed up
for the night and wended his
weary way towards his house, only
to find that those Engineers had
chosen this place to erect the exact
duplicate of the Engineering
Building they had known on Studley so many long years ago. De
 

?

 

termined to discover the meaning

a

And Saint Peter .

of this outrage, he opened the door
and walked in. A few moments
later the door opened and Peter
was thrown out by twenty hands.
Chief Reakson, of the Engineers,
took pity on him and told the boys
to lay off. Peter was given a seat
with a group of green-looking
freshmen, to whom Chief Reakson
was lecturing on the true projection of right circular cones.

In the rest room, Hell was reigning and the good man Sows (who
was peacefully smoking a cigar)
could do nothing about it, for
when McLop and Dunnines began
to make love to a_ twenty-six
ouncer, then there was nothing to
be done. The pious St. Peter gave
another long-drawn sigh—‘What
will become of Heaven?”

Next morning, the Engineers
had taken full control, under the
leadership of the class of ’46. Each
was posted to his job, the biggest

: and most important being that occupied by St. Peter the day before.

Lensmore stood on guard:

“Who will keep the Golden Gate,

And swear at those who come in
late—

Engineers of D-A-L.”

The Engineers ruled supreme.
The bad men of Dalhousie, the
men who kept the world rotating
over into a more exciting place.
“Who'll grow wings and learn to

fly—

Engineers of Dalhousie.”
on its axis, the men who had been
expelled by Lucifer, made Heaven

 
  
 
 

a
aby 1

ft ley

   

——

 

 
    

 

 

bist Poor, timid Harvey found the
Banquet wather expensive, so in
- company with “Dewar’s” entertained the boys with a very fine
_ exhibition of card tricks.

, eat Not. to be outdone Eisenberg
_ climbed a stately maple to retrieve

were not agreeable.

The staff of the Lord Nelson is
in search of Mencions to complete
_ their staff of efficient waiters.

An 8 o’clock curfew has been
established in Armdale until the
feud between Morgan and Joe is
settled.

Wilson braved the dangers of a
mob to obtain three pairs of nylons—destination unknown.

Saskin boasts the ownership of a
private cement-mixer and for confirmation suggests a mixture of
milk, ice cream, scotch and rye.

The two authors of the above
warn Knowsey to watch his or
HER job or we'll step in.

M.B.C.V.W.S.

 

Yo keep in touch with the
newest popular music, make
it a habit to visit

PHINNEYS

regularly as new records
are released.

PHINNEY’S LIMITED

451 Barrington Street

 

THE BOILERMAKERS’ BULLETIN

BACK FROM THE WARS

 

~~ bee
24 te
*% ay
¢ * haw ty sS

POL

   

x "es £ e o

@® SWAYING IN THEIR NARROW hammocks
transport, three Hopefuls lay discussing their

gurgling bilgewater,

“Va know,” said the first, “‘it’ll be great to get out of the Army and into college.
pushing around, no line-ups, no rush, just peace.

this stuff for us.”

Bob Walters...

(Continued from page three

 

he is a drafting-room character
and a person has to be an Engineer to understand the signifieance of that. ‘The latter quality
more than any others helped J.J.
receive the honor of carrying the
prized award back to his native
Lunenburg.

So with the Bob Walter’s Award
in his pocket and with the B.Sc.
and Engineering Diploma he is to
receive in May, we wish him all
the success in the world.

MILK IS GOOD FOR YOU

The Department of Health and Welfare
strongly advises the public to “Stick to

| Milk”,

Ww

 

  
  

ibe HAS.

ane OoD 2
oa ee YSea Bau wp a fe

 

Discharge came quickly, and the
three Hopefuls soon found themselves in a‘long line-up in front of
the Q.M. stores, carrying great
piles of equipment. Then came a
long line of doctors with long
needles and fiendish looks. After
running this gauntlet, the three
Hopefuls lined up at the documentation office, listening to shouts of

 
 

S|

of

se]

:

i

i

;

a

“sian here, — No, not there, you

rube, here!!” No more of this!!
siged the Hopefuls, leaving the office and lining up to meet the personnel officer. “Now, the abilities
you boys have shown...” began
the officer. “No more of this!!”
sighed the Hopefuls, leaving the
personnel office and sidling into
the line-up in front of the pay
office. “No more of this,” sobbed
the Hopefuls, tenderly fingering
their last pay. “No more. lineups, no more K.R. & O., no more
orders, part one or two. We’re
out of the Army.”

The next aay the three Hopefuls
found themselves in a long line-up
waiting to register at college.
“More of this?” they queried,
looking at the block-long queue.
Seon they came to a small cage
where a man and a dark coat immediately relieved them of their
money. “No more of this,” they
mused, fingering their empty wallets. Next they met the registrar,
who greeted them kindly, saying:
“Now, the abilities you boys have
shown , * “More of this?”
sighed. the Hopefuls, following the
line-up to an office from whose
depths came shcuts of “Sign here
—No, you rube, not there, Here!”
“Not more of this!’ exclaimed the
Hopefuls.

Registration finished, our heroes
presented themselves at the public
health clinie, where they were met
by a long line of doctors, brandishing long prohes and malevolent
looks. Leaving the clinic they
visited the Gym Store, then Currie’s emporium, where they collected great piles of equipment. “No
more of this!” screamed the
Hopefuls,

Bi) ing it: thetta narrow, punks |
fe pe 7 * ‘ a vs

Xo
Ly

   
  

EXAMS

Ah, peaceful college days!”

for those away from home. ~~+.

ON nnn eet rennin

START j$OO HRS..

 

slung deep in the bowls of a Canada bound
future plans to the background music of

No
No more of

story of the Dal Men’s Residence,
THE THREE HOPEFULS were
discussing their future plans to the
background music of a leaky drainpipe. “Ya know,” said the first,
“it would be great to get out of
and into the Army. No
pushing around, no late plates, no
themes, no problems, just peace.
Ah, peaceful army days.

college

Oe

(Roun tf \

tee

aN nee

; ae
CURRIES |

 

Harmonious...

(Continued from page 3)
rumor had it
that he had an affair with Grandy.

Attention
the
were

him in shape—but

then diverted to
Truro; all blondes
bench-marks, the
content with minor
roles such as turning-points, off
was
belles of
labeled

others were

sets and the like. When the Engineers moved in, ingenuity and
achievement were struck off the

ration list. Their every move and
affair was systematized. Vic would
take her out on Monday night and
Harvey would take over on Tuesday night. Share and share alike
became a byword. Living up to
the high standards expected of an
Kngineer the girls were conducted
in fine style (army boots and overalls) to the Forum—, or for the
elite the “Bucket-o-Blood”.

No review of a stay at surveying camp would be complete without mention of the food situation.
very commendable indeed — what
with corn growing outside the
doors of the bunkhouse, apples outside the windows and the chickens
that wandered in (well, anyway it
seemed like they wandered in)
everyone ate well. The midnight
snack was invariably followed by
a sing-song, on these occasions
quite a bit of spirit was diffused
throughout,

Word is getting around that in
future the surveying camp will be
held at. Dal. Our sympathies are
extended to those who have not or
will not at some time in the future
be able to enjoy the good, clean fun

that surveying camp bas in store

sy

March 1, 1946

Leave It to The Engineers

 

The Case of

THE SQUARED CIRCLE

Or: Who Put The Kibosh On Pi?

@® THADIUS J. INTERGRAND
was usually a calm man, but this

morning he was buzzing everywhere — flying off on numerous
tangents — and why? Because,

gentle reader, he had squared the
circle! This was news of the first
degree—mathematicians the world
over were soon beating a path to
his door. Einstein shuddered —
“suppose he busts my theory to
pieces? Oh, no, he couldn’t, he
must be wrong.”

The great day was at
Professor Intergrand
baton and fifty professors arose
and straightened the tables and
threw a few logs on the fire. By
now such notables as
Squared and Pythagoras P. Pentagon were seated.

Intergrand was finally read and
proceeded to give his proof. All
went well until he said, “You see

hand.
waved a

Cosine

gentlemen, placing Pi equals 32/7

”

shouted the

22/71”

“But, Intergrand,”
audience, “Pi

“Oh, yes, I do remember reading
that, but I am so practical-minded
I forgot it.”

“Tt’s all his fault!” said Intergrand pointing an accusing finger
at his assistant, P. Sub. Nought
B.A., B.O., P.LE. “Ever since he
came here from his job in the pastry shops he has been trying to

equals

trick me. I might have known he
would turn to no good but then
again what chance has anyone
when he has been derived from an
improper fraction?”

After 7.49 awful
silence, Fraction
his feet. Slowly he spoke—Sure I
did it and I’m glad, I tell you
glad! He always despised me—now
I’ve tricked him—and I could have
made it worse. My long years of
experience has shown me that it is

seconds of
sarefully got to

possible to divide a pie into infinitely small number of pieces,”

“Hold it — hold everything —
(and who is this? Why its Officer
6 7/8 that infamous detective.)
I’ve been watching this case for
seven years and now I’m going to
break it. Both of you
blame. I can’t bother to bring you
to trial as that would be humane. You, Intergrand, are forthwith and must finish
your days calculating log tables to
17 places with extra
interpotation. And you, Fraction,
must prove your own theory, and
Pi to 6,740 places, and
then figure the sequence of numbers in it.”

To this day Integrand and Fraction can be seen in the depths of
desvair working,

are to
too
disgraced

columns for

calculate

busily working,
working

—from “Police Records, ’46’’.

 

THE GOOD SHIP VENUS

Scene: Dartmouth Ferry Office.
Time: 08.12

Enter Ainslie Pasture and Billsdotter arguing about the relative
slope of two sides of a hill, Pasture
still maintaing they slope the same
way.

08.13 Harlow Catching enters
on roller skates, deposits bowler on
ticket takers knee and commences
to argue about ferry schedules.
After maintaining “there ain’t no
justice” he registers a complaint
with the Super and returns mut
tering “You can’t tell that man
anything.” He deposits a child’s

ticket and enters.
08.14
ferry

A violent tremor of the
building indicates that the
captain is trying to prove that the
angle of shear of the dock is 45’,

08.1444 Mate tries to close the
door. Dinky Meadows is crushed
underfoot by the Coffeevalley
brothers and his unconscious body
is carried on board by Prickhog.
Billsdotter stops hammering the
weighing machine with magnet
muttering “Oh to be in Amherst
now that spring is here.”

08.15 The gates are closed and
a cry of “Soweeeee” is heard from
a distance. The ferry cop is seen
clearing a passageway through the
traffic. As the boat starts to move

 
 
    

 
 

 

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snache—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthhd bran.

Magnetic Horseshoer appears running down Portland Street with a
frying pan in his hand. With a
rush and a six-foot leap he lands
on the ferry and as the ticket collector vainly wrings his hands on
the dock he proceeds to the upper
deck to look for Wetmeadow and to
finish his breakfast.

08.16 A vile odor hits the ferry
as it clears the dock. “Here comes
Wetmeadows pipe,” says Horse
shoer with his mouth full of bacon.
08.17 Billsdotter wanders along
the deck shouting “Peanuts, candy,
hardtack, thumbtacks, and Scotch
tape’. Horseshoer looks for Leehi Brindle to make a fourth. Jokey
draws an integral curve on the
wheelhouse and runs into Catching
sorting out his “perfect lettering
plates”.
08.20
listen

The Coffeevalley brothers
open-mouthed to Darwin’s
theory as Chief
Doors.

expounded by

08.29 Catching indignantly complains to the captain the
boarding up of the porcelain utensils in the little the
stairs. “It aim’t sanitary. [Tl
write the commission about this.”

With a grinding crash the boat
docks, The chains

about

cabin below

rattle and an
other voyage is over.

     
 

Fe

<> fa
UAT Receadg y #

 

 

CUTS

2 QUALITY

 
bo a ee

  

i

 
 
   

i

>

 

" 1 1
' rl

st
x fs
pecs pleaded a chorus of unap
the arts.
- share of earthly joys.

 

Ra dar Wave In Rocket
x ‘light: To Stratosphere
om by J. CRICKET McGOSH

@ ‘TWAS A BANNER day for P. Grapevine Bilge. He was
about to give his life to scientific research. Standing atop the

- Seience building observatory, he was about to rocket through

_ the stratosphere in hopes of reaching the moon.

A radar

wave had already done the trick but Grapevine would be the
_ first Dullhousian to view the area at first hand.

“Pll exempt you from a pegs
thesis if your mission’s a success,”

said jovial Physic chieftain Daddy

_ Strongdaughter as he buttoned
Grapevine into his rocket suit. “Of

a i course, once you reach the moon,
(a you're there for good. We haven't

figured out a way to get you back
_ to earth. Too bad—but you un~ derstand.”

“Couldn’t MeGosh go in_ his
' preciative voices.

“No!” retorted Bilge. “MceGosh
is a great boon to civilization and
Pll go! Pve had my
Only last
week I passed a kem test; Dr.
Chewit said’ my punctuation was

improving; MeGosh mentioned me

in his column; pedagogue G. Laffy
: —

ville smiled at me and I won a

ping-pong tilt with Prof. Masseur.
- Yes, I’ve lived life to the full and

am ready for the lunar spheres.”
“You'll be lonely up there,
Grapevine,” mumbled kindly old
ster Major Loggin. ‘“Here’s a
flashlight and a copy of The
Georgics for bed-time reading.

Vale, atque vale Grapevinus!

Spero res adversas tibi non invenire. And here’s a pack of gumdrops.”

“For zee work you did for zee
cause, I’m happy to award you zis
free pass to zee Glum Club shows,”

_ said Hairy Zipper.

 

 
  
 
  
 

, “But I can’t use it on the moon.”
“No! But don’t you appreciate

zee gesture?”
At this point, cheerleader Jake

 
    

| The
Red Cross

in Halifax has undertaken to
supply the needs of Camp Hill
Hospital for blood donations,
and other hospitals in the area.
Dalhousie, which made a magnificent contribution in wartime
years, was asked to continue its
work for these wounded veterans. .

        
   
             
         
    

   

  
      

Phone 38-7178 for appointments,
at the Dalhousie Public Health
Clinic Wednesday night.

Groups of 40 can arrange their
own clinics.

      
     
        
 

 “Jovel” he panted,

GAUVIN & GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS
vW

Boudoir — assisted by underlings
Mary Lou Biscuit and Gin Tummus
(the Maine attraction) — chanted
the nostalgic ‘1-2-8-Upidee’ and
skewered a minor felt ‘D’ on his
bosom.

“Vote Heavy and break clicks”,
said a Low Scull delegation in a
tearful farewell. “Here’s a ballot
form... write an X after Heavy

. no, no, no! not Mungo! .. .
Heavy! Heck, darn ... doncha
wanna break clicks?”

“Tf you’re not back by Spring,
we'll award your degree ‘in absentia’,’ said anguish mogul Chully
Beanut, “Incidentally, in the interim you might take a gander at
Milt’s ‘Utopia Misplaced’ and..do
me a theme on Billy Wobbledart’s
‘Dick Il’ with allusions to Heinz
and Ford.”

Last greeting came from Col.
Lorry of the bored guvnors who
arrived breathless but jolly.
“beastly sorry
to be late . . . just saw ‘The Lost
Weekend’ . . . bully film. Jove,
*twas ghastly when the bat devoured the mouse ... oh, yes...
in the name of the bored guvnors,
I wish you the best of luck. When
I was a subaltern in the Imperial

. And now Ill apply a match to
the rocket fuse.”

“Vou’re lighting the wrong end,
sir.”’

‘Jove, yes ..
WOW aha”

A puff of smoke, a flash of light

. sorry. There

and FP. Grapevine Bilge shot towards the planets. But... what’s
this?

“Zounds!” wailed Daddy Strongdaughter. ‘Bilge is drifting back
again by parachute. The cowardly
rascal has lost heart. And _ to
think I spent my last farthing on
his harp lessons,”

As Bilge’s parachute fouled in
an oak tree and he dangled over
the vast wastes of Buttonmeadow,
MeGosh noticed the poor laddie
was crying bitterly.

“Daddy ... Daddy Strongdaughter,” he screamed. “I know
I’ve been a cad. But I forgot
something. Almost played false
with benign Willy Pontiff of the
Annual Leaflet. Seems I neglected
Pontiff’s caution in the Gazoot and
forgot to order a copy of the
bigger and better ‘Farce’ ”

  
     
   
 

3-6992

  

7.45

' i 2 Lael aa
a J

ae

PA es
lates Ere!
a 4 A)

DALHOUSIE....

  
 

Get out and Vote’

  
   

      
 
   

 

Vets Meeting March 7th to
Elect Next Year's Officers

Dissolution of Finance Committee Under Discussion

-@® THE VETERANS ARE scheduled to meet in the Chem

Theatre at 7.30 p.m., March 7th, when officers for next year’s
executive will be elected. Policy on the choosing of suitable
war memorial will also be discussed.

New Office Established

A veterans’ office has been established in the west end of the
Men’s Residence Building on ‘the
Studley campus. Fitted out with
telephone, typewriter, etc., it will
serve an immediate need at Dalhousie. Business hours will be as
following: Mondays to Fridays inelusive 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays:
9.30 p.m. to 12 p.m. The dollar

Pharos Given $700.
Grant from Governors,

Council Of Students

@® THE YEAR BOOK is now $700
richer thanks to a recent announcement from Col. K. C. Laurie,
Chairman of the Dalhousie Board
of Governors to the effect that said
body has approved a $350 grant to
the Pharos staff. The Students’
Council has also passed a $350 sum
—having previously agreed to an
appropriation equal to the Board’s
grant if and when the Governors
should approve same.

Both grants have resulted from
conferences and discussions during
which Editor Pope impressed Council and Board representatives with
the need for increased finances to
advance Pharos to the standard of
other university Year Books.

Pharos is $700 richer, and
chances are that a proportionately
bigger and better product will roll
off the presses this Spring,

In view of these developments
and the fact that many more students may now wish to place an
order for the book, the Pharos staff
has decided to advance the order
dead-line to 6 p.m. Wednesday,
March 6th. ‘Prospective buyers
should drop in at the Pharos office,
Arts Building from 12.00 to 1.00
daily..

 

s Yeoman will

membership fee will be accepted
here.

The dissolution of the Finance
Committee, now that its main work
has been carried out, will also be
under consideration. Mr. Mark
give an account of
Student Credit Unions throughout
the Maritimes, and the advantages
of establishing one at Dalhousie
discussed,

A circular letter to all the major
employers of industry in Nova
Scotia has been sent out by the
General Duties Committee. Once
the replies to these are received, it
is expected that many job-seekers
may find satisfactory employment
during the summer holidays.

Page Five

..»- FEATURES

 

 

“Knowsey”

® Too bad Bill Silver doesn’t want
to go steady—he only sees Pat
three times a week. It sure would
be awful if they were going steady.

Knowsey wonders what romantic
individual wrote the following to
Roz:—“Oh darling, I’m so glad the
male situation is bad. Now I know
you are safe!”

Peter G. seemed to enjoy his acting quite a lot. In fact, he skipped
three or four lines to get down to
the part he really shines at. Only
trouble is Marion keeps ducking.

It looks like Stinky and Viv have
broken up. Stinky has decided to
take French as his only serious
work for the following term,

Jessie M, seemed quite perturbed
when asked where her Frat pin
was—sure hope she finds it soon.

Then there is that thirsty Bob
Seeley who is forced to leave the
library every ten minutes for a
drink. (Ed. Note—“Dear Alice,
there are Dixie cups in the men’s
wash room.”)

“Let it Snow. Let it Snow”
screams Jean L. as she goes around
dreaming of her one and only
“Ray” of sunshine,

Bob Mumford took last week off

so that he could be with his one.

and only Bridgewater Peggy. When
asked where he was Bob just answered “ummmm.”

It seems that second floor at
Shirreff Hall has become a second
Reno. Anyway there are a lot of
broken-hearted boys as a result of
the Hall girls weird antics,

 

Canadian Campus

@® UNIVERSITY students find a
pack of cards the cure for any dull
moment Canadian campus reports
indicate this week. In the evenings and at lunch hours and occasionally even in labs and classes,
bridge, poker and gin rummy
flourish and it’s a studious soul
indeed who at the end of four
years is not an addict of at least
one of these extra-curricular activities.

Bridge is the most popular card
game at McGill. It is played unceasingly through the day in the
smoky atmosphere of the Union
cafeterias. The monopoly on the
tables at lunch hour which bridge
players previously held was this
year broken when players were
ordered to court their luck elsewhere during the noon _ hour.
Nearly all students play the game
und the majority belong to a club
of some kind. Most of them are
working for the day when they can
join the Duplicate Bridge Club—
an aloof society which permits

 

  

Picobac’s the pick

of the Frat House!
What a tobacco...
so mild so fragrant

   

  

so cool .: so long
lasting.

        
     
   
    
    
     

Dicobac

THE PICK OF TOBACCO gg

e

    
   
 
 
 
  

  
  
 

@ SERVICEMEN who have returned to University will
find that their clothing needs for re-entry into civilian |
life—whether sporting, collegiate, or social wear—can
be smartly met from our full lines of Clothing.

e SOE in and ee our ptogk. a ian

membership only to experts. The
MeGill Daily periodically publishes
problems for friends and also occasionally play by play description
of spectacular bids that have been
made during tournaments or competitions.

Bishop’s University also considers bridge the leading card game.
It is played at all hours of the day
and night and interest is widespread. Observers there, however,
have noticed of late a distinct rise
in the popularity of gin rummy.

The West as represented by the
University of Saskatchewan holds
out for poker. Sinister mumblings
about all night games are often
heard in classes,

Again at Queen’s bridge is the
outstanding card game. Poker
takes next place. Students play
at meal times, in the evenings and
at the students’ union and in the
residences,

Bridge and gin rummy are the
favourites at the University of
Toronto. Active games of both are
reported to take place in the back
rows of lecture rooms,

nates

ORPHEUS
Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
March 4-6

“PRISON SHIP”
“LAWLESS EMPIRE”

 

Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.
March 7-9

“DANNY BOY”
“CALIFORNIA GOLD RUSH”

CASINO

An Odeon Theatre

 

  

  
 

Startiing Saturday, Feb. 23rd

  
 
   

EDWARD G. ROBINSON
JOAN BENNETT

  
  
 

 

@® THAT SHEET that dropped out
of your copy of THE GAZETTE
as you picked it up is this year’s
Boilermakers’ Bulletin, representing
more or less, the various high- ,
lights of the year among the sundry characters of this department.
Speaking personally, I would like
to thank the many contributors for
their fine work, and also the regular staff of this sheet, especially
ye Ed. himself for contributions of
time and “know how”, without
which we greenhorns would have
produced some sorry results indeed.

The most important item to
come to our attention this week
is the horrible, blood-curdling atrocity committed in this column last
week when Professor Vale’s name
was mis-spelled. Our humblest apologies, please.

Another fascinating chapter was
added to the story of those two
famous characters, Morgan and
Leverman over the week-end. The
pair had agreed to write a story
for the paper, and agreed to meet
Saturday night at one of Jollymore’s fine homes to finish this
little chore. They were not quite
alone, however, and each accuses
the other of keeping the lights out
during the evening. Final results:
No story for THE BULLETIN.

Our deepest sympathies go to
friend Oakley, who took a girl to
Monday night’s Common room
dance, and was able to have one
and two thirds dances with her, all
the rest going to the stag line.
There must be a law agin’ that
somewhere.

Election Forum

Continued from page 1

interests of the entire student
body, due to this attitude of faculty
preference and selfishness.

The vice-presidential candidates,
MacLellan and Blakeney urged
support for their respective running mates, Blakeney stressing
Havey’s experience, and MacLellan
urging unity with Roy.

The final trio of speakers were
aspirants for the presidency of the
D.A.A.C., but before they had a
chance to speak, many of the audience left the Gym. Bell stressed
Interfaculty Sport, more responsibility for managers; Grant promised to complete several im/provements, started or suggested this
year, build up varsity and interfaculty sport, get better practice
hours; Doig criticized the lack of
action by the D.A.A.C. and the
student body, promising a general
housecleaning and improvement in
Dal sports.

OXFORD

Mon.-Tues., March 4-5
“HERE COME THE CO-EDS”
Abbott and Costello

 

 

Wed.-Thurs., March 6-7
“COLONEL BLIMP”
Anton Walbrook, Deborah Kerr

 

Fri.-Sat., March 8-9
“EARL CARROLL’S
VANITIES”
Dennis O’Keefe, Constance

Moore
“DOCKS OF NEW YORK”

CAPITOL

Mon,, Tues., Wed., March 4-6

“LEAVE HER
TO HEAVEN”

GENE TIERNEY

a)
Thurs., Fri., Sat., March 7-9

 
    

   
   
  

  
 
  

  

 
 
  
  
    
  
  

   
   

7 *
*'

have yet

eentre of the floor.

ahd MacDonald; St.

 

; Fig. iting Bengals Downed
_ 54-52 As They Force X
— Quintet Into Overtime

By BERNARD CREIGHTON

i: Ee wr “CMON FELLAS, only thirty seconds left,’
Bs ny | from the throngs of spectators as the play see-sawed up and
town good old Studley gymnasium, Dalhousie attempting to

was the cry

come from behind a slim two point deficit, while the expres
sion;
In

of the cheering fans showed the tenseness of the match.
et ne dying moments, with only three seconds remaining,

Dunlop, in a last desperate effort, shot a long one from the
There was a hush from ‘the crowd, and

then as the ball swished through the hoop, the spirited Dal
supporters cheered their fighting Tigers as they forced the
match into overtime, being tied 46-46.

When the game had opened, the
Bengals had established a good

working margin, on four baskets

by Hart, and one each from Knight
F. X, being
able to answer with only five
meagre points. The play settled
down on both sides for the remainder of the frame, the teams
being very evenly-matched and
fighting hard for this crucial game
in the Intercollegiate series, Dal
still holding a seven-point margin,
leading 29-22 at half-time.

The excited spectators anticipated a stiff battle in the following canto and as it turned out they
received much more than expected.

The Black and Gold play became
rather ragged in the initial ten
minutes, and the Antigonish lads,
paced by their speedsters, Lorne
Whalen and Frank Mooney, were
time-and-time-again on top of the
hasket on beautiful plays set up by
tricky Bill Ritchey. At the ten
minute mark, the game was tied
at 31-31, and from there on it was
a real battle. It looked pretty
srim for Dal when the two main
Tiger rearguards, Giffen and MacDonald, both went out of the game
on fouls, but Blakeney was a
worthy replacement on defence as
he broke up many of the famous
St. F. X. rushes. With three seconds left and the crowd straining
for those extra points, Dunlop
made his beautiful shot that sent
the game into an extra period of
play.

The overtime produced the most
exciting brand of ball to be played
m Dalhousie for many years.
Fraser Mooney opened the scoring
almost immediately after the starting whistle, and for five minutes
the players raced madly from end
to end with first one team and then
thes other taking the lead. The
match ended with a flurry of shots
st the X hoop as the Tigers did
everything but put the ball through
the basket, and as the whistle
sounded, St. F. X. was in front
h4-52.

It. is impossible to pick individual
stars from the St. F.X. Quintet,
Frank Mooney, Ritchie, and
Whalen, all playing bang-up
games. Gordie Hart was the shining light for the Tigers as he

netted 21 points to lead all the’

scorers. Dunlop was a star in the
tight spots, Giffen playing a whale
of a game on guard, outjumping
his opponents many times for
diffieult rebounds.

Lineup:

Dal—Dunlop 11, Knight 6, G.
Hart 21, Giffen 6, Creighton, MacDonald 6, Blakeney 2, Rogers, F.

 

High .

 

 

Scorer

 

rot,, F x. Edge Tigers To Win Nova
Scotia intercollegiate Cage Title

 

There

 

® CONGRATULATIONS TO ST.
F. X. on winning the N. S. Intercollegiate Hoop Title. They are a
fine bunch of fellows and fought
hard to capture the coveted award.
Dal gave them a battle Monday
night but were hard pressed without the services of classy left forward Alex Farquhar, whose cage
work is always outstanding.

oo ee

This week has been a disastrous
one for Dalhousie. The Intermediates were eliminated from the
playoffs by a sudden death game
with Stadacona. The Cubs were
not at their best and the sailors

took quick advantage to gain a

42-38 victory. The girls second
team were edged out of the city
championship by a strong Stad
team that won both games by &
slight margin. The only bright.
spot this week was the return to
life of the hockey squad which held
the highly-touted [Irishmen from
St. Mary’s to a 6-6 draw.

7% (a

The hoop squad hope to reinstate themselves with Dalhousians by a brace of victories over
the weekend. On Friday the Tigers
tangle with Acadia and will en
 

with (lair

By BLAIR DUNLOP

 

deavour to repeat their previous
triumph over the Axemen. The
next night the Seniors take the
floor against Stad in the second
game of a best of three semi-final
series for the City Championship.
The Seniors won a close 33-3] victory over the gobs in the first
the

night promises to be a real thriller.

game and match Saturday
* * *
Don’t the

hockey team in their return match

forget to support
with Acadia on Friday. The Tigers
are fighting mad and will throw
everything in the fray to avenge
their previous loss to the Wolvillites. Here and There: Everyone
is proud of they great turnout at
basketball

It proves that Dalhousie can com
Monday night’s game.
pare with any other college in supLike to take

this chance of thanking those loyal

porting her teams...

Monday night supporters who trekked to Stad, rain or shine, to see
Tigers perform. Thanks
Shorty, Phil, ‘Boud’,
Mary, and Amy.

their

Gordon, Vern,

 

Stadacona Intermediates Eliminate Cubs

Wrens Clip Co-Eds; Cop Championship

Robinson, Creighton and
Smith Star in Final Match

@® DALHOUSIE’S INTERMEDIATE CUBS bowed out gracefully
from the City Intermediate League
on Tuesday night, when they went
down 42-38 before the thrashing
blows of the Stadacona hoopsters

Cubs38—Stadacona 42

The initial game was exciting
throughout with Dal putting every
effort into the fray to prevent
elimination from the league. However, the sailors had height in the
persons of Vautor and Collier and
set up these two players under the
hoop for numerous baskets. The
Cubs fought from behind throughout the frame and managed to
keep the first half quite close with
the period ending, Stadacona 20—
Cubs 15.

In the second canto the gobs
started to walk away from the
Tigers and built up a 13-point lead,
scoring time and time again on
close in shots. However, referees
Eccles and Cox began to tighten
up on fouls and two sailors, Rowe
and Vautor were forced to retire
from the contest. This left Stad
with only four players, but the
tired Cubs were unable to overcome the deficit.

Lineup: Smith 15, Creighton 10,
Robinson 10, Blakeney 2, Morrow,
Algie, Rogers 1, Tilly, Mitchell.

 

Interfac Ice Play Keen;

@® THE INTERFACULTY Hockey
League has settled down to a race
for the last play-off position. As a
result of their win over Pine Hill,

- Arts and Science went into a first

place tie with Law, both with 8
points. Engineers hold down second spot with six points while
Meds have climbed into the important eer spot by defeating Frosh, The athe: three clubs,

a ait Fs

 

f
E Ph
Po re
A i

a Battle for Play-off Spots

iy
im, th
(‘Ga

,

Meds net turned in a brilliant performance as well as Bill Moreside
who led the attack. Paul Lee up
forward and Thorpe in the Frosh
net played good hockey for their
team.

Arts & Science 3—Pine Hill 1

The surprising Arts & Science
team went into a fist play tie with
the Law students as a result of

   

 

| STANDINGS

Interfaculty Basketball Leaders

BIG SIX
P. Hannington (Frosh) ...... 101
J. Morrow CETOSNH)! wo.) ces ois. 81
L. Bell (Engineers) .......... 64
A. MacKay (Frosh)\.........: 61
F. Rogers (Commerce) ...... 50
J. Mont (Commerce) ......... 48
Penalty Shots
De MOLTOW CE LORD) Sic c 5 see a es 9
As Mackay (Frosh) .. ec. ca 7
B. Hatfield (Law)°..........+: 6
Dy ePeTEEUE USGTLUE) | ord opis bie 9e 008 + ve's 6
P. Hannington (Frosh) ........ 5
Fouls
A. Kenty (Commerce) ....... 15
N. James (Commerce) ...... 12
I. Henderson (Frosh) ........ 12
Bi ereciele (LAW) fas ss eiseies' 12
RGUAaT  CUAW) ned ass cevwees 12

 

Intercollegiate Meet at
U. N. B., March 14

Six to Represent Dal

@® FOR THE PAST six weeks, 15
Dalhousians with a taste for blood
have been meeting three times a
week in the Gym for training in
the manly art of boxing. Now, in
just two weeks time, will come the
chance that they have all been
waiting for. On March 14, six of
these boys will represent Dalhousie
at the Maritime Intercollegiate
Boxing Tournaments, being held
this year at U.N.B. Unless further changes are made, only six
of the Tiger-Boxers will don gloves
for Dal, owing to a deficit in the
two lightest classes — Fly and
Bantam Weights. Coach-trainer,
‘Lefty’ Jordon feels highly optimistic about the performance his
‘sluggers’ will stage at the Meet,
at if, Dal yo tee aver with the

  

     

Co-eds Lose Final Game
29-24 at Stadacona Gym

® AFTER EMERGING victorious
in B. Group of the Halifax City
League, the co-eds intermediate
team was defeated by Stadacona
Wrens, winners of A. Group, in
Wednesday night’s game for the
City League title. The Wrens had

defeated Dal 21-19 the previous
evening and ended the winning
streak by ousting them 29-24 in

the best two out of three games.
Dal was out to win, but it was evident that the Navy wasn’t going to
let the title out of their hands in
the final game.

Jessie Sherman went through the
first half in her usual spectacular
manner, and though the teams did
their best to stop her, she scored
six of her team’s ten points. There
was still lots of hope for the Dal
girls at the end of this half, the
score being 15-10 for Stadacona.

The final frame showed the
fastest playing, and as a result of
the Navy’s total of 15 fouls, Dal
was able to gain a couple of points
with some accurate free throws.
Marg MacPherson did a wonderful
job. of holding back the Stad. forwards, so that Day was able to
keep up with them and sink seven
baskets in the last two quarters.
With 18 points Jessie Sherman was
the high scorer for Dal, while D.
Dales chalked up 11 for Stad.

Lineup: N. Sherman 3, J. Sherman 18, V. Phillips 4, T. Doane 2,
S. Currie 2, V. Leonard, L. A.
Hayes, M. MacPherson.

 

Dal Girls Drop Opener
21-19; V. Phillips Heroine

@ LAST TUESDAY NIGHT the

girl’s second team suffered a 21-19
defeat» at the hands of the Stadettes in the first of a two-game
total point series for the City
championship.

The girls had tough competition
from their strong opponents; many
of the Wrens having been former

ks Date. - roe .

 

Dalhousie-Acadia Return
Basketball and Hockey
Tilts Scheduled for Today

Hockeyists Out to Revenge Previous Trimming
@® TODAY DALHOUSIE plays host to her arch-rivals from

Acadia in two return matches.

At Wolfville the Bengals were

successful in copping the hoop match but the Axemen came

back to trounce the Tiger pucksters

The cage men, suffering from the
loss of starry forward Alex Farquhar, dropped a recent 54-52 decision
to the tricky Antigonish collegians
but remain calm and confident of a
return victory against the Wolvillites as they humbled them 38-29
on their own small floor. It is
hoped that Farquhar will be present for this match for with his
help the hoop squad would be
greatly strengthened,

The hockeyists fresh from a tie
with the St. Mary’s Irishmen who
recently held the Aecadians to a
draw, are out to battle the Axemen
with a vengeance. The team was
working well in the game against
S.M.C. and each line accounted for
three goals. With the team intact
and goalie MacKeough playing inspired hockey, the team is hopeful
of revenge in its coming encounter.

Whether the two teams win, lose
or draw lets have a full turnout to
both games and show the Acadians
the true Dalhousie spirit that has
been exemplified at recent matches.

Acadia Girls’ Varsity
Whip Tigresses 5823; 2nd Team Wins

@® DAL CO-EDS VARSITY team
was defeated by Acadia Axettes in
the first of a home and home, total
point series on Friday afternoon,
with the evisitors walking away
with a 58-28 lead.

 

Throughout the whole game the
powerful Acadia team blasted their
opponents’ line and kept them under close check. The visiting guard
line was. exceptionally strong, the
Dal girls finding it almost impossible to get through to the basket.
By the end of the first half Acadia

was well ahead with 25 points
chalked up to Dal’s 12.
At the start of the second frame

the Dal co-eds were pretty tired,
having only one sub, while Acadia
kept alternating their two forward
lines and had lots of energy left.
The home team fought to the final

whistle, but were only able to
score a total of 28 points while
Acadia finished with 58 points.

Unless a return match is arranged
between the two teams, the winners will meet Mt. A., the New
srunswiek champions, for the
Maritime Intercollegiate title.
Lineup: J. Hart 1, P. Jones 16,
Robinson 4, S. Currie 2, J. Robertson, S. Pentz, E. Cruickshanks.

* +.

BEST GAME of SEASON

@ ONE OF THE best games of
the season for the girls intermediate basketball team was staged
Friday afternoon when the visiting
Acadia team was defeated 36-25 by
the Dal co-eds. Both teams fought
hard and the playing was extremely keen, especially during the first
half which ended 11-10 for Dal.
Jessie Sherman and __ Virginia
Phillips displayed some accurate
shooting, chalking up 17 and 138
points respectively. The Dal forwards had few opportunities to get
in near the basket, so their shots
were for the most part long ones.
Although the home team were in
the lead throughout, the Axettes
put up a stiff fight, with very few
fouls resulting on either sidé,

Lineup: Ne connie shen |
. Doane 41

man 17, V. Phillips 12, F

ta

4)

 

 
  
   
        

by a convincing margin.

 

Dal Sextet Come From
Behind to Battle S.M.C.
To Hard Fought Draw

@ In a very evenly-matched hockey game at the Arena, Wednesday afternoon, Dalhousie and St.
Mary’s fought ‘to a 6-6 tie. The
Tigers started out with some fine
playing, bottling up the S.M.C.
players in their own territory for
the first part of the game. This
pressure finally yielded dividends
with two scores for Dal while the
maroon and white answered with
only one marker towards the end
of the period.

The end of the second period
saw the score evened up as the
Santamarians outscored the Tigers
2-1 leaving the total at 3-3. The
final period was opened as the
Irishmen rapped home three quick
tallies. Only then did Dal begin to
fight hard and at the ten minute
mark they managed to even up the
score. Both teams endeavoured to
notch the winning marker but the
score remained the same, and the
final bell saw the score still 6-6.

First Period

 

 

              

1. Dal—Crowell ....... 6.205 10:00
2. Dal—Churchill-Smith ....13:00
&. S.M.C.—Vaughan ........ 18:00
Second Period
4, S.M:C--Vaughan ........ 8:40
5. Da —Churchill-Smith . 8:00
6. S.M.C. .11:00
Third Period
7. S.M.C.—MacManus...... 1:00
8. S.M.C.—Vaughan ...... 4:00
9. 8.M.C.—Vaughan ....... 5:00

:00
6:00

 

10. Dal—Crowell (Knickle).. 5
11. Dal—Knickle
12. Dal—Currie
(Churchill-Smith) . . 10:00
Lineup:—Goal, McKeough, Defence—Wade, Clark, Graves, Frazee. Forwards—Moreside, Churchill-Smith, Currie, Knickle, Crowell,
Blakeney, LeBlance.

Federal - 
(Continued from page 1)

6 @ 8.6, € te @ @

 

Discussing the Canadian Parliament, the speaker said that it ‘was
what the people made of it, since
they sent the representatives and
public opinion dominated the
speeches and ideas of members.

The art of government is to live
together and face problems
squarely, Mr. MacDonald urged,
and youth should take an active
part by entering the various parties. It was true, he said, that
politics was dull in comparison
with war, so was peace a dull occupation, although no one could
deny that it was a worthwhile one.
The speaker concluded by again
emphasizing the importance of a
liberal education which must, of
necessity, concern itself with the
state and its intricacies.

JERRY NAUGLER’S
ORCHESTRA

123 Willow Street
Call 4-9673

 

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET

ie 29 COBURG ROAD,
*
LIFAX Nova Scotia

—

. ¥

 

y
Rennie le Ee

4 4
_ a oe

——

ae a

-~»

a

 

at

”
3

se

<
ae aie

a

‘

“,

= — . ~ . a ete . . fe Cb = 4 alin
as a a a a a dT -—

2

ir

tt

Le

a
oa i. — s)
eat me | —

~~
sk eet REEEEEnEtieEEiIemeetennenete tame tei tet eicae eee teatime tae ee ae
