 
 
    
 

*

hy » ®

> >

- AMERICA’S

 

Maritime Intercollegiate
“ Play-off Berth at Stake

. OF Dalhousie Cubs Enter City Playdowns

ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25th, Dalhousie Tigers meet

St. Francis Xavier in a scheduled intercollegiate basketball

a match in the Dalhousie Gymnasium at 7 p.m. The game will
iy be a crucial test for both teams, as the Xaverians took a close
" decision from the Tigers at Antigonish last week, and one of
. the two universities are expected to represent Nova Scotia in
‘« the Maritime playoff.

 

b. Should Dal register a win over
‘  ° St. F.X.; it will probably be neces‘f+ sary for the two teams to meet

in a third encounter. The squads
are evenly matched and the game
will feature a fast-breaking attack
by St. F.X., while the Tigers are
noted for their strong defensive
play and accurate shooting.

One Up In City Semi-final
In senior competition, the Varsity hoopsters are one up on Stada, cona in the semi-finals for the city
J

STUDENT FORUMS

Tuesday, Feb. 26th, 12 p.m.
Gymnasium

Election Platforms

Thursday, Feb. 28th, 12. p.m.
Gymnasium

Discussion of War Memorial 
 

title. The teams are engaged in a

» ‘best two out of three series, the
‘winner to meet the R.C.A.F. in the
_  . finals. The Halifax champions are
scheduled to meet Acadia for the
>» Nova Scotian title. Though the
Tigers are currently going strong

Vets Name Dr.
Hon. Vice-Pre

 

b in this league, having won their
last four’ starts, the Tars are not f

to be under-rated, and will provide P

‘stiff competition in their next en- Revte (oO a
/ ‘eounter, Wednesday, February 27,

Friday, Feb. 22—
3-Act Play “You Can’t Take It
With You”, in Dal Gym at 8 p.m.
Saturday—
Boxing practice in Lower Gym
at 4 pm. 3-Act play at 8 p.m.
Sunday
S.C.M. Hymn Sing at 248 Tower
Road, beginning at 7.30 p.m.
Monday—
Basketball in Dal Gym at 7 p.m.;
Dal Tigers vs. St. FLX.
Dance in Common Room after
game with Don Warner and his
Gang.
Tuesday—
STUDENT FORUM IN GYM
AT 12 P.M. FOR ELECTION
SPEECHES.
Wednesday—
Basketball in Dal Gym at 7 p.m.,
Dalhousie vs. Stadacona, second
game of Semi-finals.
Hockey at Arena at 4 p.m., Da
vs. St. Mary’s.

‘at 7 p.m.
ee ° ‘The Dalhousie Cubs, taking the
} -lead from their big brothers, have
2» chalked up a winning streak that
has carried them into a three-way
‘tie for second place, plus a position
j in the city playoffs. The winner
of the Intermediate Basketball
« | league will oppose Liverpool in the
Nova Scotia playdowns. The city
playoffs will commence next week
_ with the Cubs probably seeing action next Wednesday in the Dal
Gym. |

Win Ten Of Last Twelve
Riding the crest of a wave of
victories which has netted them ten
wins out of their last twelve starts,
a@ Dalhousie basketbaJl squads are
making their best showing in over
four years. Keynote of this surge
by the Gold and Black has been
their exhibition of team play and
team fight. All three teams, nevertheless, face stern tests next week.

 

A. and S. Name New Officers:

 

OLDEST

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 22, 1946

‘Dal Vieet X-men Mon. in Hoop Tilt:
| Stadacona Wed, in City Semi-Final

ote Mingo Campaign Funds

® THE ARTS AND SCIENCE
Society held a meeting on, Thurs
day to elect their officers and
Council Representatives for the
coming year.

    
 
  
   
   
    
      
   
   

Before this was carried out,
however, a motion was put forward
to the effect that the Arts &
Science Society support the Studey candidate, Bill Mingo, both
morally and financially. As. the
ral support was organizing itself, the financial end held the
dotlight, The motion was passed

NO
H
he

Mr. Mingo in defraying the exYenses of the campaign.

|

if
;
\

Manimously that the Society aid

The following officers for next
year’s executive were elected: Al
Lomas, president: Bob Roome,
vice-president; Frannie Doane,
Ssecretary-treasurer.

The candidates named to contest
the five Arts & Science seats on
the Council in the March elections
are: Senior boys, Al Lomas, Bill
Pope; Senior girls, Terry MacLean, Nita Sederis; Junior boys,
Bob Knight, Bob Roome; Junior
girls, Molly Schwartz, Nancy WilSon; Sophomores, Harry Rhude,
Lilo Brown. \

Terry MacLean was elected to
manage Arts & Science Dramatics,
and Harry ‘Rhude Debating.

'

r
ae

 
   
  

Se
iy

 
 
 

STUDENT

 

  
 

PUBLICATION.

 

No. 16

 

Campus Plastered With Election Posters As

Campaign Gathers Momentum

f 3%

PRESIDENT H

J Tee Year...
Feo STURLE
VOTE Cinco:

 

Pictured above are three of the countless election posters now
gracing the lecture rooms and lobbies of every building on the
campus. Manifestos, white papers, propaganda sheets, etc., are

pouring into common

places in daily torrents as the liy

rooms, residences and other student meeting
eliest election campaign at Dal
housie in many years entered its first week,

Kerr Hon. Pres., Dr.Walker

s.; Hear Committee Reports

Constitution For Association Drafted and Passed

@® PRESIDENTS A.

EF. KERR of Dalhousie

and A. Stanley

Walker of the University of King’s College were respectively
elected. as Honorary President and Honorary Vice-President of

the Dalhousie-King’s

Veterans’

Association at the Associa
tion’s February 7th meeting, held in the Chem Theatre.
After a brief resume by President Alec Hart, Mr. David
Maclellan, Chairman of the temporary constitutional commit
tee submitted

a proviso constitution which passed, after an
hour’s extended discussion, almost without change.

Clauses

of vital interest to all are 4 and 9, Which outline the purposes

of the Association:

4, The purpose of the Association are:

(a) To ensure, in so far as possible, the normal completion of university courses undertaken by member veterans, by means of policy
and action designed to remove
handicaps arising, directly or indirectly, from their status as veterans; :

(b) And, therefore, to study the
problems peculiar to student veterans as such and to strive by concerted effort to remove sources of
difficulty;

(c) And, therefore, to carry on
all necessary relations with representations to Dalhousie and King’s,
the Dominion Department of Veterans’ Affairs, the Government of
Nova Scotia, the National Conference of Canadian Student Veterans’
Affairs, the Canadian Legion, government and community housing,
rental and other agencies, in behalf
of member veterans in-their capacity as veterans.

5. The Association exists only
for the purposes stated in Clause 4,
and the definite boundary beyond
which the policies and actions of
this Association shall not reach is
the point at which the interests of
the members as veterans become
plainly identified with their interests as students only. The Association binds itself not to create,
encourage or widen any division
between veterans and non-veterans
in the Dalhousie-King’s student
body in their capacity as students,
and not to deal with any problem
strictly the concern of the student
body as a whole or of the student
body of any faculty as a whole;
and, furthermore, the Association
binds itself neither to seek nor to

$ *
Nt bee ae
“I

; - 5 . x Ly + a
‘ j f Reel a ee

 

claim &ny privilege or favoured
treatment that may result in discrimination between
this Association and other veterans
to the detriment of other veterans.

Mr. Tommie Giles, chairman of
the Housing Committee, submitted

(Continued on page 6)

 

 

U. N. B. Dakaters in
Close Win Over Dal

@ ON FRIDAY, Feb. 15th, a U.N.
B. debating team was given a 2-1
decision over Dalhousie, supporting the negative of the resolution,
“Resolved that Britain should support the Dutch in the East Indies”.

Speaking for the U.N.B. team
were Lynden Peebles and Dennis
Benson, while Jim Saunders and
Wendell Meldrum made up the duo
representning Dal. Dr. Barley, of
the U.N.B. faculty, was the chairman for the evening and the judges
were Rey. Mr. Gordon, Mr. Wesdell, Mr. Twedoale.

Pharos

Everyone wishing to obtain
a copy of the 1946 Year
Book must have their order
in by not later than Feb.
28th.

 


 

 

members of 
WILL B

a

MEMORIAL DESIRED
Plebiscites for Memorial Fund, Fee Increase Cancelled;
To Vote Only On Three Dollar Levy For Year Book.

@ RATHEHR THAN BE ASKED to approve or reject a two dollar
increase in the annual Council fee to build up a sinking fund for the
construction of a War Memorial swimming pool or hockey rink, students
will be required on election day only to name the type of War Memerial
they desire, said President Laurence Sutherland of the Students’ Council
in a statement to THE GAZETTE late last night. A special forum has
been called for Thursday, February 28th, in the Gymnasium at 12 p.m.,
to discuss the various types of memorials possible, and to draw up a
list of those the students want placed on the ballot.
Possibly Greater Than Two Dollars

This change in plans resulted from a joint meeting of the heads of
the Council and the Veterans’ Association and a committee organized by
Dean Wilson to bring the matter to the attention of the Board of Governors through the President of the University, Dr. Kerr. The meeting
decided that the student body should not be asked to vote a specific sum
of money towards the construction of a memorial until the nature and
cost of this memorial be first determined, especially in view of the possibility that the two dollar levy previously decided upon might then
prove inadequate. They were also of the opinion that now is the time
to carry on the campaign off the campus for such a project, while the
war is still fresh in the minds of potential contributors.

Until the amount of this levy has been definitely agreed upon, the
Council have decided net to approach the student bedy for the proposed
five dollar increase in the Council fee. Should the first be much greater
than the two dollars originally planned, the latter might not be at all
desirable. Plebiscites on hoth these questions will probably be arranged
for sometime near the end of the term. THE PLEBISCITE FOR THE
THREE DOLLAR INCREASE IN THE COUNCIL FER FOR THE
DALHOUSIE YEAR BOOK WILL BE CARRIED OUT, HOWEVER,
DURING THE MARCH 5th ELECTIONS AS PREVIOUSLY PLANNED.

 

Forum Indicates Pharos Levy

Will Be Approved by Students

Veterans Express Willingness to Pay From Own Pockets.

@ OVER 250 STUDENTS were present at the student forum
in the gym last Tuesday, with Council President, Larry
Sutherland, presiding. The purpose of the forum was to discuss the proposed increase in Student Council fees, totalling
ten dollars. This increase was made up of three sums—three
dollars for the Dal Year Book (Pharos), to be subject to
student approval each year; two dollars for a War Memorial
Fund, to aid in building a swimming pool or a rink on the
campus; five dollars for general student activities.

The forum also heard a proposal the graduating class personnel. as
by the D.A.A.C. Managing Com-_ in previous years.
mittee that the D.A.A.C. presidental candidate, receiving the second highest vote, automatically become vice-president in this year’s
election. The matter was left over
for the next forum, on Tuesday,
Feb. 26th.

Pharos request for a three dollar
inerease was first considered and
the general trend was in favour of
granting this amount. It was
argued that by making this contribution at the first of the year, the
students enabled the Pharos staff
to plan accurately, knowing exactly
how much money they would receive and how many copies they
would need. Most colleges spend
over $4,000 on their year books
Whereas in past years Dal has
spent only $2,000 per annum. These
facts were presented by Bill Pope,
Pharos editor, and he added that
this year, for the first time, the
Dal Year Book would be for every- |
one, not confining itself solely to |

Vets Favour Increase

ln his opening remarks, Mr.
Sutherland had stated the increase,
if approved by the students, would
still be subject to the approval of
D.V.A., and would be dropped if
they were against it. At this sf are
in the discussion, several student
veterans spoke in favour of granting the inerease, regardless of
whether D.V.A. or the veterans
themselves had to pay the money,
and it was decided to have the matter brought before a meeting of
the Student’s Veterans Association
in the very near future. Most vet
erans, present at the forum, felt
that this, suggestion would meet
with general approval.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 

JUNIOR PROM
BOILERMAKERS’ BALL
THURSDAY, FEB. 28th
Nova Scotian Hotel
Seniors, See Mary Farquhar
for Complimentary Tickets

  

 

D. DOIG, D. GRANT AND L. BELL
UP FOR PRESIDENCY OF D.A. A. C.

3-Way Contest For All of Club’s Executive Posts
® THE MANAGING Committee
of the D.A.A.C. nominated “Deek’’
Grant, Lew Bell, and Dave Doig as
candidates for the D.A.A.C. presi
least two of the candidates active
members next year.
There are two candidates vying

for the position of secretary —

¢ +
4
'
s
2 ¥
?

9 NAME KIND OF

dency next year, at the meeting
held last Monday in the gym,

Both campi are represented.
Grant is a third year Med student,
who has taken an active interest in
athletics, being Med representative:
Bell is a second year engineering
student who has proved his worth
with the hockey team this year;
and Doig is a first year law student who was secretary of D.A.A.C.
several years ago.

The D.A.A.C. has recommended
to the student body that the presidential candidate, with the second
highest vote, automatically become
vice-president. In ordér to build
up a strong D.A.A.C. executive, it
was thought desirable to have at

Bernie Creighton, second year Commerce student, and Bryce Bittgess,
second year Engineer. Both have
beerf active in athletics since coming to Dalhousie.

The other business of the meeting concerned the coming basketball tournament, in which teams
from U.N.B., Mount A.. St. F. ee
Acadia, Tech and Dal will compete,
Arrangements were finalized for
this tournament, which is to be
held on March 15 and 16th.

Due to the inability of U.N.B.
and St. F. X. to attend the proposed boxing tournament at Dal
this year, it was decided to call off
the meet, originally scheduled for
March 2nd.

to ees Ro
£ Can't Take It With Youw??  soissncmerm

  

«
       

    
  
   

   
   
  
 
 
     
  
 

   
      

i” 7
' 4

 

“Council revenue allotted the
s. Few realized that over a

er ti i devoted to varsity teams’ travellmses, so much greater than last year due to
s decision to re-enter the intercollegiate
field.) To give specific figurés, $650. was
spent meals for the football teams, $250. on the
“same for the bask

 

   
  
   
      
     
  
   
    
  
   
  
   

  

“basketball teams, and $268. on ice hire
rink for senior and interfaculty games and
these items are evils of long standing at

Dalhousie, dating back to several years before the
var, Every new Council during this period pledged

itself to do something about them, but the only step
ever taken was a cutting of the budgets, which only
 @ffected a decrease in the number of practices and a
+ curtailment of the amount of sports.

>) * Nor is the meal factor the only fault with the
| -eurrent noon practice hour: following are some others:
> 4. Due to present heavy schedule of classes medi~ gal students find it inconvenient, if not impossible, to
turn out for this hour, thus depriving the teams of
abe my experienced men in that faculty.

2 Due to distance of the Arena from the campus

attendance at hockey practices compels Studley stu
‘dents to miss noon meal altogether and be late for

/) ) \ labs, Hockey also involves the additional expendi_ | ture of time required to change gear.

 
 
   
 

 

  

ee inconvenient even to consider handling a
ety Ma. rues service-men with sufficient free time
filled in very nicely this winter, but they will not be
"© “ayailable another year. Though they have turned in
‘good work, they are not as desirable as the Alumni

hecatise they are not and can never be “Dalhousie |
| men”? ALUMNI COACHES ARE THE ONLY
"a4. SOLUTION TO THE COACHING PROBLEM. AT
» PALHOUSIE UNTIL THE POST OF PHYSICAL
/ “DIRECTOR IS INSTITUTED, CARRYING WITH IT
De RACULTY RANK AND THE CONTROLLING

  
   

© Students Problems

i) @ THE DISTASTEFUL QUESTION of
Fs what's wrong with Dalhousie” has won fresh
meee; popularity by virtue of the Students’ Council
‘election campaign. Nostrums are the fashion.
> To appreciate some of the problems and Ir"> Fitants bothering the student body entails
(“painting in the background” of history, or,
P= ‘more accurately, attempting to track down
ih)’ Suprimary causes.

este The principal factors which have helped,
- in varying measure, to wither “‘college spirit ,
| ‘to nurture conflicts between faculties, and to

"foster campus cliques, might be enumerated,
. for brevity’s sake, as follows:
messi (1) The-scattered nature of the Dalhousie
| campus. .
Whi: (2) The lack of a focal point for the social
- life of men students (e.g. a'men’s residence,
"> or even a University Men’s Club), which jusifies the existence of selective and competing
social groups and prevents cohesion in the
student body.
> ) ~A fourteen-year period, recently
~~ ended, during which the University presidency
was not the unifying influence it is intended

Pith

-.- (4)”:«Hard times followed by war.

(5) - Demands of the curriculum upon the
time of undergraduates in the profesional

S. |
» > ~~~ (6) “Demands of family life upon the time
~——s« (@):«CDisparity in age, experience, and in_ terests of war veterans and non-veterans.
. None of these seven factors can be dismissed lightly. Their combined effect upon
"any given student activity has been close to
- eatastrophic. Separated by faculties, fratern‘ Fetes, age, outlook, and matrimonial duties, the
__ students would seem to be united only by the
name of Dalhousie.

 

stronger than appears on the surface. The
'') University is in much the same position as
many other institutions seeking to recapture
the vieour and gaiety which shrivelled in the
early 1930's. From the purely Dalhousie point
of view, however, there is a good deal of fresh
~~ ground to break, and there are a lot of old
'-_— prejudices to overcome, before one can hope
Mahe Role val of the happiness associated
swith the nes of “Lord John’ Forrest and

    
 
     
  
 

  

Bt ve

f — '
p ‘
; i ¢
i‘ oy Ae Seal Be
fA
rs
P 7
'

 
 
   

  

aR PaaS a

 

FP  3. Would-be coaches from the Alumni find this |

-_ Fortunately, the spirit of Dalhousie is far

iweested method of approach to the
ae ‘aS ah rT $ ya Mos a 4 P « i» ‘ ,
roblems ig the reduction of them to
Reo a weal a eli we et ie : ‘
*y a alg ei . Mig . ei . Y }
5 te es st 4 nyt Ants : iy @ f f h i rae oa!
ANC  aeMTae a ea aI hia
hry) La ae Naa iu ten eA a at) Uy ae rat
RNS OI? Sane ie Ae A SPM, Gh) marl ei
ae . iy vat we Bovis ay 7 4 ye es oe . be SRN 7h ; f
iw, ', ve f, oe vt i i, Of , : by J ee PP J
Ne aL, orc era St ao ay ae ee

v ; nee au wine ole 6. « B in :

Sports ........ Alec Farquhar
Fea

 
      
      
   
   
  

Literary .......Morton Norman
Photography ... Don Morrison
Cartoons—Bob Tuck.
Circulation—Nita Sideris
Mary Farquhar

More Convenient Practice Hours

VOICE IN THE D. A. A. C. Though the University
is now seriously contemplating this proposal, even
then much of the coaching will im the long run be
delegated to members of the Alumni,

And, consequently, for all these reasons, it is
vitally necessary for the time-tables of classes,
clinics and labs to be so re-drafted that more convenient practice hours are arranged. With this purpose in mind the D. A. A. C. approached and received the sympathy of the Senate Gym Committee
early in October, but it was already too late to do
anything for this year, especially in view of the many
additional classes planned for the post-Christmas
term. Action should have been taken last spring,
AND MUST BE TAKEN NOW BEFORE THE D.
A. A. C. PROGRAM RE-COMMENCES NEXT FALL.

Following is a consideration of the alternatives
available:

1. Transfer late afternoon classes to the 12 to 1
free period on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Decrease
present ninety minute dinner period to one hour and
finish labs by 4.30 pam. Use two hour 4.30 to 6.30
period for practices and [provide no meals. Objections: One hour for dinner insufficient for majority
of students who eat off the campus. November day
not long enough to permit afternoon, foottball practices. Ice at Arena difficult and more expensive to
obtain at this time of day.

2, Transfer late afternoon classes to the 12 to I
period on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Leave ninety
minute meal hour as is and cut out last thirty minutes
of all labs, thus ending them at 4.30 p.m. On days
the football team practice cut out last hour of labs,
at least for the players. Faculty will probably object to this plan, but perhaps can work in an extra
lab per class per month somewhere. As regards
hockey, either devote more money to ice hire or arrange practices before breakfast or late at night, until
Dalhousie builds its own rink. Society meetings, stu
‘dent forums, ete., could also be held after 4.30 in the

afternoon. | es

Dalhousians, think the whole matter over carefully. Sometime soon you will be asked for express
an opinion,

terms of simple relationships. By way of
illustration, here are seven sets of relationships, each worthy of patient examination:

(1) Faculty - student relations, wherein
faculty initiative might promote better understanding.

(2) Relations between and among faculties, wherein the initiative of both faculty
members and student leaders is desirable.

(83) Relations between veterans and nonveterans, wherein the initiative of the former,
older group clearly must be relied upon.

(4) Relations between Dalhousie students
and the students of other universities, wherein
the good name of Dalhousie must be held high
by her students, whether as hosts, guests, or
competitors. :

(5) Relations of students with the people
of Halifax, wherein the initiative lies wholly
the former to win and to hold the regard of
the community, and to revive the healthy
“town versus gown’ rivalry with the city’s
sporting clubs.

(6) Relations between the alumni and
students, wherein the former must provide
leadership and support.

(7) Relations between the University

' President and the students, wherein, by virtue 
of his office, the initiative rests with the
President, and wherein the duty of loyalty and

response to his leadership" lies with the
students.

Similar problems and relationships characterize most North American universities. It
is easy, of course, to think of many other
questions that are pertinent, such as the failure
of our schools to prepare matriculants intelligently for university life, and the consumption
of time and thought caused by the juxtaposition of the sexes in a_ co-educational
Institution, when that time and thought might
otherwise be devoted (profitably or not) to
academic pursuits and to strictly university
activities.

The immediate .needs appear to be a
general student understanding of problems
bearing upon their collective activities and
interests and, coevally, a conscious, concerted
effort to repair deficiencies and to recover lost
ground.

The attainment of a normal, happy atmosphere in student life may take very few years,

if itis sought by a sincere, cooperative student

body, fully aware of present handicaps as of
the heavy hand of the recent past,
i ee. ’ D, MACL.

Prescription

7

or nity
© THE GOOD SHIP DALHOUSIE
is floundering and we cry out
against the captain, the crew and,
in latter days, against patched sails
and our leaking hull. But, if the
ship is lost, it will be because the
sails are not trimmed to catch the
trade winds of student enthusiasm.

The basic cause of the failure of
our campus community is that the
individual student does not now
play his full part in campus life.
If each student makes the effort
to attain the reward in rich experience possible in a full university
life, the leader we choose in the
coming election can tap a wellspring of enthusiasm, talent and
co-operation on this campus., Such
an awakening assures success in
every group activity and an opportunity for each student to make a
worthwhile contribution to Dalhousie.

Every student must now demand
of himself a sincere interest in the
activities of the student body and
call up the desire to make some
personal contribution to these activities. University life can be a
significant experience in creative
us; but we
ourselves.

living for everyone of
must contribute of

There is much more to going to
university than getting five credits
a year. We must join our fellow
students wherever they gather, on
the dramatic stage, in orchestra
practice, on the playing fields, and
in the guiet of study groups. Creative living cannot be postponed.
Life is not tomorrow or after
graduation, but now.

hi for unity demands that each
one of us answer this question,
“What do I owe this University?”
As a student I owe at least this:

1, A serious interest on my part
in the welfare of Dalhousie.

2. A willingness to consider the
the University in the
light of a proper sense of values.

3. The contribution in time and
effort on mv

needs of

part necessary to
solve these problems and put Dalhousie back in her proper position.

It for unity demands that, in the
coming election, we- at Dalhousie
be the most serious, -the most
thoughtful and the most demanding electorate ever appealed to.

bniaieniais

We must conduct the election as
thinking adults and have done
with the ‘“bobby-sox’” mentality
which refuses to live up to its responsibilities.

R for unity demands that campus political life be negative of
privilege but must be made positive in responsibility and service
to the student body. We must bear
this in mind at the polls and choose
wisely.

ly for unity is defeated if this
campaign is allowed to deteriorate
into a senseless squabble between
Medicine, Law and Studley. We,
the student body, must repudiate
those who seek to pit one faction
against another and demand a
campaign of reason, a platform
with an henest awareness of our
problems and a leader above all
factional prejudices.

R for unity demands this of
every student. Make this election
your business and Dalhousie University your responsibility.

J. O. Godden.

City After Rain

Hushed lies the city

After the rain.

Blurred lights slide down the wet
streets.

Below—steel rails

Twisted into spider webs

Gleam in the engine’s light.

The train—-a long line of yellow
squares—

Clicks softly past.

Then comes the fog—creeping—

Up from the harbor.

Gently it blows out the lights,

Drifts and swirls at the corners;

Covers and blankets a silent, dripping city.

 

—Elton Lowell.

TE a al ao Ee ae aS
J a, ho ae 3
we ‘ i, 2 | pie

 
 

  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
     
  
  

  
  

“| thought you invited me fo see your etchings.”
“Nonsense! We're here to Light Up and Listen®”

 
 
  

   
    

* “Light - Up ~ and - Listen”
With SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
Station CHNS
Every Thursday Night
10.39 bd. mH.

  
     
   

   
   
  

 

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage desioned by ROSEDALE,
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

ON

nat” NURSERIES Limifed-.. f
.* 38] sarrincton /T- HALIFAX

After Any Show

or...

Before Any Meal
Think of ...

The
Green Lantern

?

 

 

 

   

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

hy)

=

eh

 

    
   
 
   

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL — SOFT COAL
COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

*

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

  
 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.;Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.
Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Se.
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses,

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year

; Residence

Shirry-ff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 

    
  
    
   
    
   
 
   
  
   

ry rT yi

-z

te.
‘5,

he
ri

  

i i
_e
vs eM as, "ys,
ie Pir,
eet ey
r P D ro

“7

P

fa

, a f,

hi Ee

‘ i! se

A a a
* i

>)

ee or Fa

ar |
by : 7

      
 
   
    
    
   
  
     
    
  
     
  
  
  
   
   
     
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
     
   
    
    
     
   
    
   
   
 
   
      
   
      

Ml

AS HL" Poitier, J. W. H. Rowley,
Aire Dalhousians filed key post

_ tions in the war cabinet at Ottawa: _
Col. the Hon, J. L. Ralston, P.C.,

1, ‘ 5 5

b

' »
4

a
om:
on 7

q aes

. F. Arab, A. S. Forsyth, W.
Mg Foster, J. A. Hanway,
F.C., Winston Johnston, Stuart

ne, J. C. MacNeil, M.C,, A. J.

cote

“MacSween, E. F. A. Merchant, —

    

7a Se
a i

‘D.S.O., and R. A. :

  
 

K.C., Hon. Angus L. Macdonald,

P.C., K.C., Rt. Hon. J. L. Isley,

gat i

PS. KC, who was recently ap
pointed to the Imperial Privy

Council, the late Hon. N. McL.
Rogers, P.C., and the Hon. J. E.

guid, PC. K.C.

‘Rogers was the first wartime Defence Minister, while the contribu
‘tion of Ralston to the Army, Macdonald to the Navy, and Ilsley to

the financing of the war will forever be remembered by Canada.
International Justice

Hon. John E. Read, K.C., former Dean of Law School, whose election to the International Court of
Justice by the United Nations Security Council took place only a
fortnight ago, played a prominent
part at San Francisco in the drafting of the United Nations Charter.
He has hitherto been legal adviser
to the Department of External
Affairs.

Dean Vincent C. MacDonald, K.C.
has functioned variously as Assistant Deputy Minister of Labour
and Associate Director of National
Selective Service, member of the
Royal Commission on Shipbuilding,
Controller of Loading Operations
for the Port of Halifax, and chairman of the Regional War Labor
Board.

Mr. Justice M. B. Archibald of
the Nova Scotia Supreme Court
has been chairman of the National
War Labour Board.

W. C. Macdonald, K.C., M.P., was
Parliamentary Assistant to the

Minister of National Defence

(Army), and is Parliamentary Assistant to the present Defence
Minister.

Dr. N. A. M. Mackenzie, K.C.,
was chairman of the Wartime Information Board, while J. McG.
Stewart, K.C., formerly chairman
of the Dalhousie Board of Governors, was the National Coal Administrator.

Munitions, Supply

Henry Borden, K.C., was linchpin of the outsize Department of
Munitions and Supply as Co-Ordinator of Controls and as Chairman
of the Wartime Industries Control
Board. He was surrounded in that
Department by a number of other
Dalhousie-trained lawyers, including the following:

J. Gordon Fogo, K.C., Associate
Co-Ordinator of Controls and Member of the Wartime Production
Board;

J. Gerald Godsoe, who served
successively as Co-Ordinator of
Controls and General Counsel to
the Department, and as Chairman

' of the Wartime Industries Control

Board; |

K. B. Palmer, K.C., General
Counsel after Mr. Borden;

wt Charles Gavsie, Assistant Gen
eral Counsel and successor to Mr,

Palmer as General Counsel;

_» Frank M. Covert, K.C., D.F.C.,

a.

who was Assistant General Counbefore joining the R.C.A.F.;
_ Robert T. Donald, member of the
Department’s legal branch and
‘secretary of the Department for a
lengthy period; Rais:
_ Hugh H. Turnbull, who preceded
Mr. Donald as Departmental secretary and who later served with the
i ties pes :
__K. H. Gray, member of the legal

i. * i ms
— iY)

  

 

a

@ NATIVE of Stewiacke, Clinton
Havey presidential candidate, entered Acadia University to gain
Bachelorates in Arts, Science, and
Education, to gain the GovernorGeneral’s Medal, and to set a mark
in student activities as President
of the Debating Society, organizer
of the Mock Parliament, Exchanges
Editor of the Athenaeum, Associate Editor of the Year Book, and
winner of a Literary Award. He
worked betwixt at various jobs,
mostly with the Engineering branch
of the Department of Highways,
and following graduation was principal of two schools.

Came the war, and enlistment.
Tried hard to get overseas, and
had some of his kit bags get across
the water before an Army medical
bared a slight infirmity, which prevented the trans-Atlantic trip. Entered Dalhousie Law School,.where
he has taken part in debating, and
in executive positions on the Law
Society and Students’ Council.

Interfac Pace
Set By Teams

@® LAW SCHOOL teams have participated in every interfaculty
sport this year, and have done
well in the competition which inside the University is the criterion
of a successful sports program.
Rain or shine, Law students are
in attendance to cheer such teams

Football: Captained by Dooley
MacIntosh, former Mount A. and
Dalhousie football star, the team
after suffering an initial defeat
swept on through the rest of the
league without a marred record on
the winning side. MacIntosh and
Churchill-Smith led the attack,
with Brown, Foster, Hickman,
Eaton, MacLean, Drury, Dunsmore,
Gillis, Beadon, MacDonnell and
Rogers.

 

Basketball: Three straight vic- 
tories over Meds, Commerce, and
Engineers augured well for the
success of this team, but sheer
ability led to the boost of Captain
A. Hart, Gordon Hart, and Eddie
Rogers to the ranks of varsity
seniors. _Those left to carry: on
lost three in a row, but revived to
chase their Forrest rivals, the
Meds, into defeat, and keep the
fight open for playoffs and the
championship. The team included

Drury, Hickman, Roddham, Wil-.

son, Smith, Mitchell, Hatfield,
Creaghan and Eaton. .

Hockey: Bob Blois managed and
coached this team, which swamped Commerce, Meds, Pine Hill and
Engineers. The record speaks for
itself, and the team is composed of
Gordon Black, goal; MacIntosh,
Hendry, Hartling, and Morrison,
defence; Ryan, Creaghan, Blois,
Wilson, E. MacDonald, Meldrum,
MaclIsaac.

Softball: undefeated, with Commerce, Engineers, Meds and Frosh
lying suppliant at its feet. Mel
(Continued on page 4)

the Aircraft Production Board,
and latterly R.C.A.F.

Another large government
branch, the Wartime Prices and
Trade Board, recruited these Dalhousians:

Tan MacKeigan, Chief Enforcement Officer at Ottawa;

William McIntyre, with the Enforcement Division at Ottawa;

W. H. Jost, Enforcement Officer

rae 4% i
fe ' pyr yt

nd

 
  

 

a ' sae td ic iv
: pee 7 sates em
PS tees tie fb

4 P ae aE

at's. .

ey r
: eet abate abt al et Ae eG
ee rae naneh sy ae eos 2 Ra te

  

LAW AND A FREE PRESS

© LAW HAS always been an effective force in the guarantee
of a free press in a democracy. Despite the wide range of
respectability in.the newspapers themselves, ranging from

good grey solidity, such as the London or New York Times,

to out and out sensationalism, or spotty reporting, or indifference towards the public weal, the law has always championed
what it has considered to be an essential element in the main
tenance of a more democratic way of life.

‘Perhaps, where

possible, it has shown the way for newspapers to keep in a
large part their paramount obligation to serve the public.

It is a pleasure, therefore, for the students to take typewriters in hand and place before the readers of the Dalhousie

Gazette this supplement.

During the Nazi dictatorship in Germany, the newspapers
fell under the heel of Hitler, and finally, after a much longer
fight, the free courts of law became to a large part tools of

the tyrant.

But lawyers have ingrained in them the feeling

that neither law nor journalism should ever suffer such a
tyranny in a country of freedom.

 

Thoughtful Type Of College
Student Found Predominant

Analysis Reveals Majority Temper
Ambition To Realize Objectives

@® “GRADUATION is the setting of the sun ona person’s
organized intellectual development,” one of my more cynical

friends told me the other evening®

“Apart from professors,

who have a catalystical quality that enables them to ripen
their beans for long periods of time, the average man ceases
to think as soon as he leaves college.”

“My dear boy,” I told him, “you
are possibly exaggerating. While

most of us are expected to bow our

heads to the inevitable demands of
society, there are many sterling
champions of thought—pure, sheer
thinking for thought’s sake —in
our world.”

He sneered at me, and then I
asked, “Is it not possible that your
conclusion holds good for college,
too? Are there not those of us
who are prejudiced, emotional in
our thinking, tending to tackle
problems in a way far from the
beaten paths _ of pure, sweet
thought ? }

“My boy,” I continued in a kindly spirit, “there are always students who never grow up mentally. Now if you'll come with me
you'll see them. Gay, ambitious,
tireless in their wastage of energy,
yet they always find their dreams
unfulfilled. Onward they go, never
thinking that life is on a different
road than they are. NO, they are
not really a help to society.”

“Really,” he said, falling into
the spirit of the argument, “one
has to agree with you. Or rather,
point out that that element is but
a small part of those at college.
Youthful minds are but a factor in
the second group I discuss, who belong to society because they are
such good chaps— without great
ability, but still the type that can
belong to a club. NO, they have
no great ambitions, but they fit in
well with their fellows.”

“Haven't we got any third
type?” he asked. “A group that
really determines the standards of
the college. Vicious in their quest
for studies, always taking the sensible role in college affairs, with
ambitions that are qualified by
commonsense, but who can meet
the emergencies that arise. Enough
of their qualities. You know the
type?”

“YES,” I said, so emphatically
he jumped. “They are vastly in
the majority, and, like the children
of Adam and Eve, they populate
the place. But listen, and I will
tell you a fable? It is the story of
the Older Brother.”

a

There is always something infectious about the enthusiasm of
young people, perhaps because
older ones who have had theirs

at Halifax, later at Ottawa;

R. L. Stanfield, Enforcement Officer at. Halifax;

Fraser Bentley, Enforcement Officer at Saint John; ,

Miss Maureen Allen, with the
Enforeement Division at Halifax;

D. J. Amiro, with the Enforcement Division at Halifax; and

J. C. MacAdam, with the Enforcement Division at Halifax.

  
   

ey ae

 

ri 9

pea: ie
a a> Le Ub Tee
4 ee SF A,

tempered by trial like to think
that the young can make their
dreams come true.

The older brother in this story
was the builder of the family, and
made a beautiful table. The younger man, not a builder, but, moved
by greed for the pretty object,
asked the former if he could buy
it. This was readily granted, indeed it was freely offered, for the
young man took such joy in the
table it would have been shameful
to keep him from it.

No sooner had he laid his hands
on it, obtaining full possession,
than the younger brother announced
he would build thousands of tables
like it, and reap a fortune. “On
this,” he said, “I shall stand and
reach for the stars. But first, don’t
you think it could be carved a bit
better?” And so more carvings
were made on the table.

The younger brother made hundreds of tables, securing orders
from those who were awestruck by
their beauty. The older brother
merely took capital stock in the
enterprise, and became creditor.

Intricate pieces of work were
these tables, carved and elaborated
from the original until the latter
stood in sturdy, plain comparison
to them. rf

Then one day the younger
brother, standing on a table and
reaching for the stars, said, “Tomorrow I will take these tables to
the market and give them to the
buyers. I shall be rich.” No
sooner had he said this than the
table broke, and the young man
being thrown against the pile of
other tables, they rained about his
head, and smashed to splinters.

The older brother, though moved
to compassion, told the younger
man he should never have stood
on the table after adding all the
fancy designs.

He then demanded his money.
The younger brother cried out he
had barely enough to meet his own
needs. But the older brother was

insistent, and threatened suit, so ”

that the younger man complied.
“You must learn that ambition
and commonsense are necessary,”
said the creditor. “Nobody can
reach the stars by standing on
anybody’s table.”

The moral is to look to your
capital, and eat at tables.

A new member of the Law
Faculty and a _ 1989 graduate,
James B. Milner was Assistant
Counsel for the Canada-United
Kingdom Inspection Board at
Ottawa.

“Monumental” Act

A former professor who subsequently became head of the Department of Legislation at the

(Continued on page 4)

  
 

  
  
  
 

 
   
  
  
   
  

  
    
 
   
  
    

   

Native of Bridgewater, Allan
Blakeney, vice-presidential candidate, entered Dalhousie in 1942 on
a Regional Scholarship. He has
been active in debating, as Secretary-Treasurer of Sodales in 194344, and President in 1945-46,

He has been an intercollegiate
debater three times. Member of
the winning Inter-faculty debating
team in 1944-45; Secretary-Treasured of Round Table group; member of Students’ Council executive
in 1944-45,

Other jobs inelude Co-editor of
Students’ Directory (1945), Circulation Manager and Advertising
Manager of Pharos, Vive-President
of Law Society, Vice-President and
Treasurer at Pine Hill, and on the
Munro Day Committee.

In 1944-45 was valedictorian of
his class, and last week Pine Hill
residents gave him their highest
award, the Graeme Fraser memorial, similar to Dal’s Malcolm Honor
Award.

 

Legala Talent
In Glee Club

@ SOCTAL SCIENTISTS and Dr.
Hancock to the contrary, the tear
jerking, scene-stealing orator type
of lawyer is not a thing of the
past, to witness, look at the contributions of the Law School to
Glee Club activities this year. ‘

However, the school’s bigger
contributions include Gordon Hart,
nominated to run for Glee Club
president next year, who is more
the executive than the stage performer. As manager of the stage
this year, Hart has done the work
of running the intricate mechanism
(sneeze on stage at crucial moment by actor-necessary that handkerchief be in actor’s pocket;
leading lady smashes rival over
head with vase, have said vase on
table to right) which means the
difference between a smooth performance and one in which the
deadly head of improvisation raises
itself.

Hart is heading the Munro Day
show, and from indications, it is
going to be quite a baffler and
different (in a healthy sense) from
the grand performances of past
years. Hart, who has been mixed
up in all types of sport (basketball, football three years, Gold ‘D’,
swiming, tennis) thinks he knows
a good piece of work when he sees
it, feels that next year’s Club
executive should continue the work
of this year’s,

Don Warner, Gordon Harrigan
and Arthur Hartling, leader,
pianist and vocalist with the Band,
will go before the jury on graduation to woo them with the softmusic type of oratory. Mr. Hartling’s performance of the Duke in
the “Merchant of Venice”” should
warn all would-be offenders to beware if he ever becomes a judge.

He will be seen tonight in “You
Can’t Take It With You”, and
other thespiantics will be by Burnett (his main interest in life is
fireworks), arid Soper (he will try
to maintain order in the zany®
household).

Meanwhile, another law school
actor is hoping that his arguing of
lost causes as the Prince of Aragon
in “Merehant of Venice” wil] not

be setting a precedent in his
career,

hi . a

: De Tes
4 i , Ven

ms o
rh Py 1 ow |
Mat pins

ie, —
ae Tr
|
i.
t — ;
gc
‘ a

   

Veterans — Law men played a
large role in the organization “Of
the new Dalhousie-King’s Student —
Veterans’ Association, one of the —
most active societies on the cam- |
pus, which has been sparked along
by a hard-working executive, head- —
ed by President Alex Hart. =

4
One of the most pressing prob- —
lems facing the old sweats is that
of housing, and an effective job is —
being done by the housing com- —
mittee, headed by Tommy Giles, ©
who has among his assistants —
Neil Price and John Patton. By
next year, the objective of the —
committee will be met, it was re- —
liably learned, “7 on
Students Wendel Meldrum, Bice
Nickerson and Don Black work ae
the Ways and Means Committee; —
David Maclellan and Jim Cregan —
helped in the drafting of the con- |
stitution; M. Yeoman is on the important Finance Committee. © ie
* * & is
Debating—Defending the Inter- |
faculty debating shield, last year’s |
organization of which was begun —
by Bob MeCleave, then President —
of Sodales, are two law teams, one —
composed of Soper, Arlett and Mel-—
drum, and the other of Havey,
O’Hearn, and MacHachern. Phan
Students also were open-mouthed —
by law initiative when Abe Sheff- ,
man began the Round Table group, —
which had a successful first year, —
but has waned this year, with its
new executive biting off more than
they could chew about.
3E k *

Bridge — Stepping up from the
Glory Hole to the Munro Room, ©
bridge has taken on a burst of energy which sees games in progress
all day. Whether the contagion
spread from Studley or is the
spontaneous spawn of overworked
brains and overwrought nerves, the —
fact remains that the Munro Room >
is playing host to a continuous
stream of relaxation-seeking prejurists who dare flee for a moment _
from their ancient volumes. 3

* of *

As Executives — On Dalhousie
Council of Students are Fred Martin, member-at-large; Clint Havey,
law representative, and on the executive of Dal’s chief executive:
Allan Blakeney, Bob MeCleave and
Gordon Hart were former members.

Senior student Pat Crewe and
Treasurer Art Mifflin of King’s ©
Students’ Council hail from the —
school.

On the Gazette are Bob MceCleave, business manager; John
Nicholson, Eddie Rogers and Abe
Sheffman, while Fred S. Taylor is
business manager (perennial) of
King’s College Record.

Allan Blakeney is treasurer of —
Pine Hill Students’ Council, and a
member of the Pharos staff, also
co-editor of the Students’ Directory.

With the Glee Club are Gordon
Hart as stage director, and he is
also in charge of the Munro Day
show.

President of Sodales is Allan
Blakeney; Vice-President is Clint
Havey. Still in the C.0.T.C. are
Major Havey as 2 i/c, and Bob Me- _
‘Cleave as R.Q. M.S. (Don’t ask
where the C.0.T.C. is). ME

Deserving a_ special paragraph
all to himself is Martin Haley, second Vice-President of the Provin
cial Command of the Canadian
Legion.

   

   
 
  
  

  
   
  
  

Sa,

* * *

In the School—Thomas Feeney is
President of the Law Society, with
those executives Blakeney and
Havey as Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer,

Moot Court flourished like a bay
tree this year, with second year
men barking up into the august
heavens, where their Lordships sit.
First year-men do the pre-argument slobbering which gets their
Lordships in shape, with such felicitious remarks as “hegding ju- dicial personages . , . unquestiened—
diligence and honesty”, ete. When
they don’t know when thick is
thick, they get fined, any defence —
being as godd as no defence at all,

}
i

 
  
 
 

  
 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 

Pion, ft ‘he Tenat pee eh wae
a record, added a great impetus to the

extre-< cul activities of law students
: eos ee School and on_ the
Euan ‘generally. . Law ‘students have
vp taking prominent parts in all sports
‘and in all other student activities, and
= now, at this time of year, the names of

© law students are conspicuous in campus
; ; polities. "es i

The faculty, although not at its post“war compliment, due to the loss of Professor Curtis to the University of British
Columbia, is privileged to have added to
jt Dr. Hancock and Professor Milner,
who with Dean MacDonald now make up
| the full time teaching staff. Dr. Han-e¢ock comes to the Law School from the
University of Toronto with wide experi-ence as a professor of law. Professor

Milner is a graduate of the Class of 1939
and during the war was employed in a

  
  
  
 
 

 

EN} at | change Control Board.

and the Mock Parliament ang iu
tradition of the Law School.

was a ducted this year in which all suds took part.
I ao to the late opening of Parliament, it will be imhold the Mock Parliament this term, but it is hoped that it

yived next term. —

Wi aC a Lig y a outgrown the “Glory Halo”, the large and
€ oom has been obtained as a Common Room. A

institutions
ery successful

 
 
   
    
  
  
  
   
 
 
 

s re aes us of the Law Rocety to be able to present the

ent of the “Gazette”. -We hope it will better acquaint
e Teather faculties with the work and play of “the boys in
Be and prove a Bpleying influence on our Dalhousie Campus.

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
   

legal capacity with the Foreign Ex
  

 
  
 
 
 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

   
 

DAVID DOIG GORDON HART

David Doig and Gordon Hart
will be candidates for presidents of the D. A. A.C. and Glee Club in the
elections. Doig, a returned veteran, was active in sports for several
years at Dal before enlisting, and Hart, also a sports enthusiast and
varsity player, has been acting as stage manager of the Glee Club.

The Problem of Establishing World

Law, Its Parentage, Its ~AAccouchers

Selassie Met Shrugged Shoulders;
Give UNO Its Chance, Don’t Sell
It Short From Atom-Blindness

@ IN THE WAKE of war and the insurgent atom, the most
obvious necessity in the world now as ever, transcending all
other problems, is world law. Symptomatic of this truism,
the peoples of the western world are talking more seriously
than ever before of “world union‘‘ and “world government’’.
More precisely, they seek an effective agency to codify and to

                         

F me | ra 1} 01 fi. f

It seeks, as Ta: to accomplish its primary fanction of training
men for the active life of lawyers at the Bar aes on ahe Bench, not only
in the Maritime Provinces but in Canada : :
generally. It seeks also—as always—to
give a training of value to graduates who
prefer careers in government and business life.

Experience has shown that the best
training in legal methods «and legal
thinking is to be had in an atmosphere
of free discussion of fundamentals with
emphasis on the great purposes, principles and instrumentalities of the legal
system, rather than onthe minutiae of
rules or details of processes. The tradition which gives direction and design to
our effect is the outgrowth of the conviction that Law is a Learned and Public
Profession. Accordingly we have'tried to
impress students with the idea that the
members of that Profession must regard
it as a sacred trust to b@administered in
the interest of Justice. This tradition
has a further aspect in that as members
of a public profession so intimately concerned with government we have always
preached the doctrine that the lawyer
should aspire to play his full part in the a : io

public life of the country. DEAN MACDONALD

It is well recognized that in the past this Faculty has produced
many men who have-attained to great distinction in the legal, commercial
and publie life of Canada and I have no doubt that the students now in
attendance will de likewise.

I could by citation of names point the moral and adorn the tale
wherein is shown the peculiar ability of men-of-law to discharge fittingly
great responsibility in matters of law proper, of the direction of great
commercial establishments and of the administration of government; buit
to do so is unnecessary and might seem invidious so I shall refrain.

V. C. MACDONALD.

  

der. Bracketing UNO with -the dead
League is atom-blindness, crass ignorance of the times. Those who
cry for “permanent peace now”
suggest the farmer who demands
his harvest in June.

any nation that is higher than
any other. If a strong goyernment finds that it can, with
impunity, destroy a weak people, then the hour has struck

  
 
   
   
 
 
  
 

 
  
 
    
  
 
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
     
 
   
    
    
      
      
   
   
    
 

  
 
    
   
 

F Lasting Impressions Of Dal

rasized On Veteran's Return

© SOMEHOW or other the old Dalhousian, wherever he is,
however fleeting his stay here was, however ill or well he may

- have fared at examination time, cannot resist confessing a

   
   
    
 

_ treasure richly worthwhile.

_ To think along these lines is perPics inevitable for one returning
to the campus after ten or mbre
years of working and soldiering.
To re-enter Dalhousie after such
_an absence is to enjoy many of the
weasures of returning home after
years away. The continuity of his| ! tory, the lingering customs of bygone days, and the lively. beckon| ings of memory warm the welcome
F, pend wave the way for me prodigal

PBsticsisis ‘was Bs by a
| professional Soldier who had persuaded himself that a struggling
colony's most pressing need was
for “a place of light, of liberty, and
of learning”, rather than for
ight roads or wayside inns. He
ved. Dalhousie with his name,
pinaistense pees tolerance in

    
    
  
      
  
    
      
    
      
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
   
    
  

oils ‘from the War of 1812.

fi ©. Dalhousie, A Name...

A century later Archibald Machan, in “Che Life of a Little
spoke of AO “ancient

   
  
   
    
  
   
 
   
    

tee roll of its professoriate”:
the name which, after all
: lived on and will live on
BS hence is the name  Dal
  
   
   
   
  

n war ‘and buffeted by
s, nau cheng by

 
  
 
    
   
     

of ex-servicemen fill the

    
  
  
  
     
  
 

bal: eer. Tek age tes Feud
" years, they, mingle with stuer many are searcely

  
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
 

fer ent love of the Alma Mater.
understands the feeling, and knows the satisfaction of sharing
with others who have gone before an intangible treasure, a

so. many cuss names in

A acerpanid to overflow-—

Every true Dalhousian

The gulf between the younger
students and the ex-servicemen is
difficult to bridge, and is perhaps
more trying for the younger students than for the worldly-wise
veterans; but that gulf is bridged
by the common bond, Dalhousie,
and by the sharing of the great
heritage that resides in the precinets of the Forrest Building and
Studley. Those who find their
community of interest is Dalhousie
are bound to get along happily
together. ;

Dalhousie is a binding tie of

friendship for thousands who have .

known these same classrooms and
traditions, and it calls to mind all
those who studied here and scattered to the ends of the earth—
administrators, jurists, statesmen,
educators, physicians, surgeons,
soldiers, engineers, and scientists,
Dalhousians all.. Ambition . and
ability have carried many to the
top, but the stamp of Dalhousie has
hindered none. Accordingly, to be
worthy of Dalhousie is the obligation laid upon every man that
would be counted one of the -vast
company of Dalhousians who have
reflected honour upon this “ancient
and famous university.”
—David Maclellan.

 

Interfac Pace-
(Continued from page three

drum, MacLellan, Price, Creaghan,
Eaton, McKay, B. Chipman, D.
Chipman, Arlett, MacDonald make
up the team.

With strong participation in all
branches of sport, Law has nominated David Doig, returned veteran, to contest the presidency of
the D.A.A.C. Doig entered in 1989
to earn his B.Com. by 1942, was
then overseas two years before returning for Law.. He played senior
hockey two years, secretary of the
D.A.A.C. for 1940-42, junior golf
champion of Nova Scotia in 1938,

tennis player assistant and basket
ball manager.
He believes in maintaining interfaculty sports at their fullest pos
gible capacity to enable all students

to join some sporting activity, and
hopes a genuine attempt will be

made to shift practice sessions,

from noon to late afternoon to cut
down on meal expenditures, and

players from being fatigued for
afietncon’ el

enforce the common law of humanity.

At Nuremberg an effort is being
made to enforce this common law,
without benefit of codification, and
by reference to the previously accepted customs and agreements
respected by sovereign nations. In
other words, 4,000 years after the
Babylonians had learned the law
and order implicit in the Code of
Hammurabi, we are trying to prevent and to punish high crime on
the cosmopolitan level.

Social Engineering
There may still be time to catch
the bus, but the timing will have
to be of a superior order if the
human species is to survive. Hu
Library
Lapses hs aia

At 2.30 I wearily climb the
stairs. Now for a solid afternoon’s
work. Let’s see, Bills and Notes

. Vagliano v. Bank of England
1891 Appeal Gases. Bet two to
one before I open it the bank
doesn’t get stuck.

2.31 p.m. Holy mackerel! 65
pages. Milner’s the type who'd ask
an exam question on that sort of
ease, though. Better do it. Let’s
see the headnote ...a page anda
half!

2.32 p.m. Wilson, . for sake
shut up or shout in a softer tone
of voice.

2.35 p.m. Wonder why Sheffman bid no trump over my three
clubs this morning? Of course we
only lost 1400 points.

2.37 p.m. Hm. Bramwell and
Field dissented. Couldn’t have
owned any stock in the Bank.

2.38 p.m. When did the commerce brunette come in? Not bad
but a little on the tall side, Wonder what her name is...

240 p.m. Lord Hersthell’s judgment is pretty well marked up.
I'd better read that one,

2.48 p.m. No. It can’t be. Yes
it is. Third time in the library in
fifteen years. Not a bad record.
Clancy and Chisholm here at the

 

 

same time. Never thought I’d live
to see it.
2.50 p.m. Sec. 7 of the Act says

that if the bill is payable to a nonexistent or fictitious person—hm.

3.00 p.m.. What’s that Abe?
Bridge? A fourth? Sure. Wasn’t
getting much done. We’ll probably
kick that Vagliano case around in
class for three or four days anyway. Now remember that three
clubs sis a shutout bid,

In the Munro Room “Bridge 3”
convenes.

manity has had a generous supply
of time in which to order its household affairs. The origin of law
antedates recorded history, reaching back to the first efforts of men
to live in harmony with one another, and to the first customs
that became sacred and inviolate in
the eyes of our ancestors. Law today, more especially in the Englishspeaking world, has developed into
the most intricate and stupendous
system of “social engineering.”

It is not easy to overlook the
prevalence of Roman law in the
Latin countries, the subservience
of all Islam to the precepts of the
Koran, and the spread of the
English-speaking world. However,
world law has not yet suffered its
birth-pangs. Its parentage and aceoucheurs are not yet identifiable.
For the lack of accepted world law,
the sovereign nations still must
content themselves with polite and
restrained agreements, hallowed
customs, and, if necessary, brute
strength.

The conservative disciple of the
common law school may shudder,
but a world legal code must be enacted and enforced within exceedingly few years. The nations may
have to satisfy themselves temporarily with a skeleton code disposing
of the most immediate problems,
war and territorial aggrandizement. Yet a beginning will have
to be made. The Code Napoleon
was prepared in six years, and
Napoleon was not pressed for time
to any greater degree than imperilled humanity is today.

Inspire Hatred

For better or for worse, a global
war has at least served to inspire
an immediate and active hatred of
war and all its works in almost
every so-called civilized nation, and
a concomitant near-global desire
for the prevention of any more
war.

The upshot is that, for the first
time, all of the great powers and
most of the lesser powers have
joined in a common enterprise, to
wit UNO; and UNO, let us pray,
may be the germ of which world
law shall be the ultimate fruit.
Nonetheless, however desirable
world govrnment may be, it is useless to expect that the jealous
guardians of natinoal sovereignty
will yield without a long, hard
fight.

The critics of UNO, and those
who unsubtly liken the newborn
child to the abandoned League, fail
to consider that effective unity
must be preceded by effective affiliation. UNO provides affiliation.
Before the nations can move nearer
to world unity, that affiliation must

' be fortified and kept in working or
 

What, then, can we hope for?
Surely we can hope that out of
UNO world government will
emerge in due course, and, in its
wake, a world legal code and world
law enforcement. To operate without world government is just as
impractical as to operate without
national government. It’s time to
stop being impractical. Above all,
we cannot afford a repetition of
that almost forgotten indictment
of the white man’s world at Geneva
on June 30, 1936:

“Outside the Kingdom of

God there is not on this earth

 

Alumni-
(Continued from page 3)
University of Minnesota, Cmdr.
Horace B. Read, R.C.N.V.R. drafted the Naval Service Act of 1944,
counterpart of the Army Act and
described as a “monumental”
achievement of legal skill. He has
been Vice-Chairman of the Naval
Regulations Revision Committee
and Chairman of the Naval Orders
Committee.

The selection of these men for
the responsible legal and administrative posts they have filled testifies that the Faculty of Law can
derive pride and satisfaction from
the record of its alumni equal to
the record of any faculty on any
campus in Canada.

Another eminent Dalhousian
whose service was in the diplomatic field, Charles J. Burchell,
K.C., a member of the Board of
Governors, served successively as
High Commissioner from Canada
to Australia, South Africa, and
Newfoundland.

The men who served in uniform
are too numerous to name here.
When the list of graduate and undergraduate veterans is totalled a
year ‘or two hence, it should exceed the 200-mark by a_ good
margin,

The vast majority of the veterans served as combatants. The
number wounded, decorated and
honoured is already exceptionally
high. Two-thirds of the students
currently enrolled are ex-servicemen.

For the alumni who have fallen,
it may suffice to say that the
Baculty of Law is proud and forever honored in being able to claim
acquaintance with their memory.

 

  

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
@

    
   
   
 

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

    

for that weak people to appeal to the League of Nations
to give its judgment in all
freedom. God and history will
remember your judgment.”

Who can re-read the words of
Haile Selassie ten years after and
still shrug his shoulders? The man
who withholds his support from the
movement towards world law and
order is an enemy of society. All
of which, in the words of the Rt.
Hon. Sir William R. Anson, Bart.,
D.C.L., adds up to the simple fact
that “the object of law ds order,
and the result of order is that men
are enabled to look ahead with
some sort of security as to the
future.” —David Maclellan,

 

    
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   

Ernest Eagle
Shows you how:

He holds the test pencil at
average writing angle...
bears down... and reads
on the dial the pressure at
which the point snaps.

Every MIRADO point is
far stronger than your
normal writing pressure.

Make Your own Test!

You’ll find MIRADO
smoother, stronger and
longer-lasting, too... the
finest writing pencil
you've ever used, or your
money back!

5¢ each, less in quantities

FAGIE? fee
at

  

ers ieee
 
 
  
 
    

 
   

 

no Damages
. In Brisk Session

Be cee ay CRICKET McGOSH

 
 
  
   
   
 
 

[ gues: the
exie. i"

‘Firs rstly. ee is (the question oft

  
 

mis ssing ‘molar. “Her attorney says
, thy: itil : cost us 10,000 greenbacks to
c All the gap in her ivories. But
_ first we'll hear the official report
_ from Elixir Distantram, chairman
of the Investigating Committee.”
¢ 1 "The Bitter Tooth
“Gentlemen,” quoth Distantram,
-Sherewith is aay, tooth of the

  

 
   

   
  

  

    
 
     

  

         
   
       
         

“ease. Seems Miss Godless was

proceeding: down the. right wing of

the oval in the third canto of a
> Gussie ‘between’ the. iOld Ladies’
|Home Alumnae and the Lanyard_ eoached Tigresses: She was 48
feet from the veteran gals’ zone
defence when struck on the upper
left wisdom tooth by a fast-shoot_ing, quick-breaking hoopster of the
visiting aggregation ...2 Col. lead
Gan 4." °),*

' i? “Prom what direction was the

a blowing ?” queried meticulous

Froggy Swallow. ,

Ny) “Nor? Nor’-East, sir.”

2 Was Miss Godless aware of the
Teapending blow?” asked Mud rep
 

     
     
         
     
     
           
      
     
   

  

    
  
 
  

ae resentative “Ape” McYellin.
(yee «No, indeed! In a sworn statement, Miss Godless maintained
- - ghe didn’t know what happened till
p she saw a tooth advertised in the
azoot four days later. eae Bae
wh “realized something was amiss.’
wn “Should we put it to a vote,
: fellers,” quaked Hinterland, “or is
mM there more discussion?”

‘ ir

_ . *Personally,” said Clinker Heavy,
Me would forget about the ten
"£2 grand and simply forward. Miss
hGrodhags "ive card of regret and
Ba. .85c “bouquet of posies to com
pensate for the missing molar.”

         
   
       
      

  

          
       

 
 

     
         
    
   

  

       
    
      
      
     
     

  

yell disagree,”  gulped. nervous
Wah Lee Mungo, as he kibitzed a
ward game in the corner. “While
eran we're at it I feel we should pay
for any cavities or bridge repairs
_ frequired by Miss Godless. We
ise Sap also give her the necessary
j funds for a rest cure in Kentville.
te breakdowns are better than
Y one, and it’s nice to keep it in the
me: family.”

“T might add, Bleary,”’ said
‘comely Cunning Itchybald, “that
Pastry is a wunnerful help to
Stilta Gamma. We thirtk she’s
simply graaand.”

“Well fellers,” spake Hinterland,
rt ‘*Gt’s gettin late so maybe we
- should appoint a new committee to
- investigate the findings of Mr.
'y! Distantram’s committee.”

a “By the bye, Elixir,’ said Consul Medico Dinny Schmidt. “What
Byeaprened to the committee investi"gating the committee you were assigned to investigate?”

, “One no tramp... what’s that?
_ Oh, they’re still preparing a brief
on phe Hei of another com
  
 
   

 
        
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
      
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
 

 

       

ag

  

‘wteusts to the Hedeue

At this moment, Consul Policewoman Lozenge Mousie crashed
into the room with a wild, fanatical gleam in her eye. “Gentle
VE GOTTA LOTTA important business to discuss,
meetin had better come to order,” spake lanky

leary Hinterland as he chanted an opening harangue
er seance of the Stewdants Consul.

men,” she screamed, “we have
been ambushed! But for my investigations, Miss Godless would
have extracted every last farthing
from the Consul coffers. “Twas a
mink ecoat—not a new molar she
was after. "Twas a hideous scheme
of extortion. You see, Pastry Godless never really lost a tooth playing ground hooky. In fact, her
entire set was home in her bureau
drawer all the time.”

“Well, fellers,” quoth MHinterland, “it’s gettin late so I guess
we'll call it a day. Next meeting
we'll fine Dimwit for smokin on
the stage, debate on a new lightbulb for the Glum Club, and have
eur pictures taken for Willy Pontiff’s bigger and better “Farce”.

(Don’t say it! _ You’d be. corny
too after 16 servings—McGosh).

 

® AFTER SEEING him in action,
Engineers are enthusiastic: in welcoming Professor Vail to the faculty. His lectures are interesting,
and a fresh viewpoint is always
welcome, The latest fad amongst
the stalwarts of the shack is treeclimbing, Latest adicts of this fine
sport are Eisenberg, who like to
follow cats, and Russel, who climbs
for the fun of it.
"ae Sa

Boiler tests at Tech drew some
interested observers from Dal last
week. Reports state that Van
Beek showed up well in. ‘Dieselcranking operations, although even
Professor Bowes couldn’t get the
machine started.

%* ae >
Brief Notes:
‘The date Graves had recently
must have been quite an affair.
The next day he brought his car
to classes, and then forgot he had
the thing.

Cowan has a novel idea for
dates—going down to visit his lady
friend every Friday afternoon, and
entertaining her by pouring water
down her back.

Bell has another blond on the
string these days. Why should he
be so secretive about it, though?

Whiteway had a visitor from
Acadia over the weekend, and came
to classes Monday morning wearing a large red souvenir on his
shirt collar.

 

   

ORPHEUS
Mon;, Tues., Wed., Feb. 25 - 27
“SHE WENT to the RACES”
and “CHIMP”
2
Thursday, Friday, Saturday
_ Feb. 28, Mar. 1-2
DANGEROUS INTRUDER”
and “PACHE TRAIL”

 

   
 
  
   
 
  

 

Wigan hl “auahe ! SEE as

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT

Chist

7.45

_ A YOUNG PEOPLES’ RALLY
Especially Designed for YOUth!

|The scHoor, FOR THE BLIND, Morris & South Park
J ae INTERDENOMINATIONAL !

 

Us
ee yr nage!

ee

ital aii,

= i ‘aed

® DISCHARGE

 

7 .
¥ 3 : >
' =e i i Fe “ 7
ed Od, ; . A ‘ { { i ne 558
VA ve a. 7 aide 4 i iA4 } :

 
 
   

   
    
   
   

        

eS lid f

  
     
    
  
  

“I’m Sorry, Ma’am.

Delta Gamma Treats
Ex-Servicemen at Hall

buttons were the
order of the day, when Delta Gamma entertained ex-service men at
Shirreff Hall, February 11th.

The boys were greeted by bright
smiles from the girls, who were
looking forward to a’ gay evening
entertaining Mackenzie King’s
adopted sons. Dancing was enjoyed by a hundred couples to the
mellow and hot music. of Don
Warner’s band,

After a delicious lunch had been
served, Don showed that he was
more than master of the trumpet
when he amused the dancers with
his version of “Let it Snow’’—and
it did, too, with apologies to the
daily dippers!! Vocals for “It
Gotta be This or That” were supplied by “Sinatra” Hartling with
“Tux”? Warner exhibiting the appropriate props.

 

Chaperones for the evening were:
Dr. and Mrs. Kerr and Dr. and
Mrs. Johnston.

It was a gay evening for everyone but at twelve o’clock the festivities ended and all the SINGLE
boys went relunctantly back to
their books, having had a look at
the Dalhousie girls, without note
beoks and pens.

Mee Me Home; Gawge

yk FACT, if fancy, I know not,

But somehow the story
brought:

The maid came from a certain Hall

Attended, to.a formal ball.

She was a common sort of lass

Who thought she really ought to
class

As something of a campus queen,

To ride in “someone’s” limousine.

She left her taxi-Romeo

For cne with heaps of porpa’s
dough.

And played her game so slyly, that

The dough boy left his jenny flat.

is

At just the time the fiddlers quit, .

She thought the hour ripe to flit

About the streets and countryside

The first of many a queenly ride.

“ll wait until you bring the
crate,”

She yawned, in accents so sedate.

But he replied, between a sneeze

Or two, “Really, I have no’ keys—

My pappy will not loan his car.

The Hall is not ,so very far

And I will, if you please (sneeze)
marm,

Assist you there’upon my arm!”

—C. O. S.

 

Attention!
Voters!

Be sure your name is on the
voters’ lists.

Students’ Council Cards must
be presented at the polling
booths. Absolutely no voting
without presenting them.
Elections on Tuesday, March 5.
Students attempting or committing infractions of the Election
Rules will be dealt with by the
Students’ Council and will be
lible to a fine of not less than
$5.00.

 

at

The Manager’s Out to Lunch.” .

 

    
  

A

   

 

’

Forrest Flashes

Med Notes

THE ELECTIONS are in the
air. At least, that is the impression we as we behold the
multitude campaign placards
which have veritably smothered all
available surfaces in our university
buildings. It was gratifying to observe that Medicine, after due de
 

@

cret
Fev

2
OL

liberation, saw: fit to enter two
candidates of the calibre of Dugger Roy and John Lauchie MacLellan. Now, dear reader, lest you
feel that. we are biased in our
views on the coming election, we

would point out that mere mention
of the Med candidates will be the
extent of our remarks apropos the
election.

All students will be glad to hear
that the list of recommendations

submitted to our faculty last
Spring have now been fully diseussed at sessions attended by

leading members of the faculty and
representative students from all
years. The spirit of genuine enquiry’ which dominated these meetings is, we think, a tribute to all
concerned, To our knowledge,
this is the first such meeting to
haye been held at any medical
school in the Dominion; as such,
it is a eredit to Dalhousie.

Since our last writing, Phi Rho
and Phi Chi have held their annual
formal dances. The former will be
dismissed briefly as an unqualified
suceess in the opinion of all who
attended. The same is applicable

to the latter, with a few names
for special mention. George

Saundérs has definitely forsaken
his quiet, retiring ways—an in so
doing has shown excellent taste.
G. Ivan really made the event an
occasion for reunion of old friends.
President Titus presided very
capably, in the company of his
better half.

The Mount A. co-eds were treated to a pleasant surprise last
weekend as Colquhoun, on route to
Moncton, decided to improve upon
his present proficiency in the art of
sleigh-riding; this, indeed, is a
form of athletics denied to all but
the select few. Will Jim Campbell
interne at the V.G. this summer,
or would that cramp his style?
Good point, eh, Jimmy? And the
Osear goes to him (or her) who
will satisfactorily solve Art Johnson’s Case of the Missing Pin.

 

COAL OR DIAMOND

A diamond is pure carbon,
the same substance as coal
but there the resemblance
ends.

The compact structure of
a diamond is responsible
for its enduring hardness
and extreme brilliancy.

Henry Birks and Sons
Limited
Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax

 

 

From RICHES to POVERTY ©

OR -- How I Failed My First Year

Full of gonfidente, I walked up
to the Library, thinking to myself,
“C’est la vie”. After waiting patiently for three hours, signing innumberable papers, I finally had a
few words with the Registrar—or
he with me— and decided to enter
the pre-med faculty. (Which was
what I had wanted to do, thus satisfying everybody.) Moreover, I
decided I’d have lots of time on my
hands, for I was only taking five
miserable little subjects. It would
be -2 einch!

aut Time an ever-rolling
stream, and in its course I became
a basketball fan, a Bloomer girl,
an ardent customer of Roy’s, and
a Marathon talker. This left little
time for “The Five’, and was utilized as follows: day-dreaming
82%: biting fingernails 16.5
studying 1.5%.

is

OF aut het
Os and

Came the Christmas exams.
After cramming (with the help of
Benzedrine) most of the term’s

work into one night, on the morning of the first exam [
into the desk-filled ¢ym,
at hideous creep-up

Profs, felt slightly
ginous (good work—eh?)
to read
nly I

2 rapidly.
ing up the old
At the
done too badly.

a first

lumbered
shuddered
those carpets
the verti
and sat

of

down the paper. Sapristi!
an vator
However, pullbobby sox, I went
end I felt I hadn’t

It might even be
division, I But

ing Co

7

Sudde ele

was

on

droppin
at. it.

thought!
alas! that was wishful thinki

Once again I entered the gym—
this time the lower gym—and con
 

        

fronting me were those mystifying yesteryear - Where were the <a
sheets of paper with names print- proud ambitions that once had Pt 2
ed neatly on them. After spending own higher than Troy’s topless a
at least’ an hour scouting around ‘wers? Gone with the wind (in *
desperately for the old name, I five reels), i
concluded that either my marks SiC TRANSIT GLORIA STU- .

: : IDT! eters
were too high to register, or that DIENDI!

I,
6 k
nowsey ‘ee
® KNOWSEY WAS given this ad Knowsey can figure out, it’s a club
to insert in the column: “To all for music-and-musician lovers. va
: ; sa" ’ wy

smart, lucky, oomphatie girls — I The Hill Billies really shone % ;
am available at any time. No Friday night. For this annual .
charge included. Phone 3-9848. event every Pinehiller showed up
Yours hope Harry Q. Old- to make the evening a success, f
felt. However, Knowsey would But Knowsey was around as usual J

like to remind all readers that she
runs a respectable (or al respectable) news column, not
an advertising column the
lovelorn.

“In the spring a young man’s
fancy lightly turns to thoughts of

nost
and
for

love’ — or should we say “new
love”? At any rate, “Enuff of the
Old: On with the New” seems to

be a new motto started by Pete L
But “Don’t get around much

 

anymore” certainly isn’t Joyce’s
theme now.
We hear th as

             

been talking in his sleep and has
been heard saying “Moore Roome”,
“Moore Roome”’.

A new Society (other than frats)
has originated at Dal, and is known
as the D.W.C. But whether it
makes any progress or not is for
the future to tell. So far as

CASINO

An Odeon Theatre

 

%

Startiing Saturday, Feb. 23rd

EDWARD G. ROBINSON
JOAN BENNETT

oa ED Seed

“SCARLET
STREET”

 

By MARGOT ROSS

@® ALL THROUGH school I had been told that Dalhousie was —
THE college, and that [’d go there when of age.
years rolled by, and I grew bigger every day, until finally, one

Friday morning in October 1944, I approached THE campus.
‘there had been a mistake.

ed over to the office intending to \oag
rectify any mistake.
misjudged the office’s

be

on

time enough to rise to par—time

en
he

Ww

its
Or
Or
Apart
time was taken up as follows: day
dr
17

will show an improvement of 1.06%

in studying time. (I arrived at

this formula by the help of Math,

1. . You have to work a little cal- ‘
eulus into this.) But was I too
complacent over this improvement f
in studying time? Was I still oe
fiddling while Rome burned? Was i
I riding for a fall? Perhaps I vs
was. At any rate, I decided to

“interview’

iners.

co

e
Ol

tery
my bull was baloney,
sight was too terrific.
didn’t
away with nothing—wait.a minute

Or

 

to

fun. Fx
Flawless)
political strategy

H

showed
did
W

 

nvinee them that the

 

   

Well, the

 
 

 
  

I rush
 

  
   
  
     
    
   
 
      
 
    
    

But I had
capability of
ing correct.

But there were still three and
e-half months before the finals—

ough to hit the old nail on the
ad.

So time went gaily on—as did I,
hy refuse a bridge party, with
need of gossip? Or a dance?
a basketball or hockey game?
a movie? Or even a date?
from these activities my

eaming 80%; biting fingernails
44%; and studying 2.567.

Reference to paragraph three

’ my prospective exam
A little of the old bull might eh
foundations i
weren’t too totin each. Hither a
or their in- a (
In short, I a
with it. I got ee

education
40%

my

    

tor a

get away

isn’t 40%
is it?

in English something ?

But where were the hopes of

 

dig up the

‘ank =F.

was

dirt and spoil the
Phinney (F for
really using his
during the “At
Eileen Macdonald
some interest. But how
it work afterwards, Frankie?
e’d like to know too!

ome’, and

OXFORD
Tues., Wed., Thurs.
Feb. 25 to 28
“THRILL OF A ROMANCE”
with Van Johnson
and Esther Williams

®@

Friday and Saturday, Mar. 1-2
“EARL CARROLL’S
VANITIES”
with Dennis O’Keefe and

Constance Moore.
and “COME OUT FIGHTING”

CAPITOL

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
Feb. 25 - 27

“TOO YOUNG TO
KNOW”

ROBERT HUTTON
JOAN LESLIE

Mon.,

Thursday, Friday, Saturday
Feb. 28, March 1 and 2

“DOLL FACE”
DENNIS O'KEEFE
CARMEN MIRANDA
PERRY COMO

 
    

 
   

  

 

  

;
eye 3

    
  
 

+ ri

_ StaveOff Last Minute
_ Rally to Take Lead in
- Best of Three Series

Bre ok eS :

Daihousie Cubs Edge Out Sailor Intermediates
39-36 To Remain in Running for Play-off Berth
® DALHOUSIE CUBS AND TIGERS copped ancther victory
on*Monday night, when the Cubs dropped the highly-touted
Stad Intermediates 36-33, and the power-packed Dalhousie

Senior team defeated Stadacona 33-31 in the first game of a
best-of-three semi-final series, the winner to meet Air Force

for the city title. |
Cubs Overcome Large Deficit

The initial game witnessed a
great comeback by the youthful
Tiger players. Stad completely
dominated the play in the first
frame, building an impressive mar
gin to lead 21-13 at half-time.
However, the Cubs lashed back

quickly in the second period, putting everything they had into the
game in order to outplay their opponents. The margin was gradual:
Jy lessened and on baskets by Mortow and Creighton, Dal took the
lead and managed to hold it to the
end of the game, winning 36-33.

High man for the winners was
Berney Creighton who dented the
twines for 10 points, Morrow playing a good game defensively, also
garnering 7 points for himself.
Rowe and Fulton led the Stad
marksmen, finding the hoop for 11
and 10 points respectively.

Tigers Hold Slim Margin

The second game was the more
thrilling of the two. The Tigers
definitely had the better team, but
lacked the finesse and polish that
comes with experience. The first
half was all Dalhousie, the Tigers
being under the basket time and

VICTOR

©@ SP RECORDS

Yo keep in touch with the
newest popular music, make
it a habit to visit

PHINNEYS

regularly as new records
are released.

 

 
  

   
 
   
 
 

PHINNEY’S LIMITED

451 Barrington Street

 

 

time again, and swishing enough
shots to double the Stad score,
leading 18-9 at half time. When
the sailors returned for the second
canto, they looked like a different
team and outplayed Dalhousie in a
hard-fought contest. For every
basket Dal marked up, Stad would
hoop three or four and so with two
minutes remaining the match was

_ tied 31-31. Then Dunlop scored a

corner shot and the Bengals managed to rag the ball and end the
game with their slim margin 33-31.

Dunlop led the Tiger offensive,
scoring 10 points and playing a
good all-round game, while Cooley
was very strong on guard.

 
 
    
   
     
    

DALHOUSIE GIRLS’ SENIOR INTERCOLLEGIATE BASKETBALL
TEAM who lined up against a similar septet from Acadia this afternoon.
Left to right (first row): Pat Jones, Joyce Hart, Irene Robinson. Back
row: Syd Pentz, Elsie Cruikshank, Jo Robertson and Marg. Lenard,

Physical Instructress.

Dal Drops Basketball, Hockey Matches
To St. F. X. InIntercollegiate Play

Score First Goal Before
Crushed By Ice Machine

@ IN ONE OF DALHOUSIE’S
most amazing games in several
years, the Tigers held the St, F.X.
squad to a smaller score on the
latter‘s home ice than they were
able to do in Halifax, the score
being 19—4,

The Dal team completely shifted
their lineup, as an experiment,
with forwards Currie and Churchill-Smith playing defence, and defencemen Wade and Graves playing forward. ,

During the first five minutes the
St. F. X. boys were rather taken

‘aback when all the play was in

their territory, with a score for
the gold and black. However, the
home team (St. F. X.) finally organized to become the fine hockey
machine they have shown the fans
all year.

_Lineup: Densmore, goal; Churchill-Smith, Currie, Clarke, defence;
Graves, Wade, Lightfoot, Knickle,
Blakeney, LeBlanc, forwards.

STANDINGS

INTER-FACULTY HOCKEY

Pe Ie, ae Abs
WAT asin o'din'e 4 0 8
Arts & Se.... 3 3 0 6
Engineers ... 4 3 0 6
ES; ee 0 0 0
Commerce ... 3 0 0 0
Freshmen .... 2 0 0 0
ESGG) CUAL gels 2 0 0 0

Games and Scores
Arts and Science, 9; Meds, 8
Law, 5; Commerce, 1
Frosh, 2; Engineers, 5
Med, 0; Law, 9
Pine Hill, 2; Engineers, 3
Arts & Sc., 6; Frosh, 3
Engineers, 5; Commerce, 4
Pine Hill, 2; Law, 5
Law, 9; Engineers, 2
Arts & Sc., 7; Commerce, 6

 

INTER-FACULTY
BASKETBALL STANDING

Pe WG. Pts
Engineers .. 8 6 2 12 2
Bosh, bh POs) Gir Ve AB OL eg
BOW see's callee tte Dae eee? Ue
Commerce ..9 4 5 8 1]
Medicine ..:...7:2-65 4. 83
RIES Ses Sy, (Be Gl Aig

 

Vets Name...

(Continued from Page One)

his committee’s report and proved
conclusively that everything possible was being done to assist stu
dents with such problems this year.

Close liasion with civic and military authorities on this vital subject was effected. /

Mr. Norman Sinclair, chairman
of the Finance Committee reported
that gratuity check worries are
rapidly disappearing and that the
all important decisions at Ottawa
are yet to be made regarding any
increases in allowances for single
or married students.

Mr. Colin Smith, chairman of the
General Duties Committee, announced that his group was trying
to locate full or part time employment for student veterans during
the months of May to September
inclusively. A: circular letter has
been prepared and will shortly be
sent to the leading employers
throughout the Maritimes. It is
hoped that it will be possible to
render assistance’ to many students
who have as yet been unable to

 

Travel Weary Hoopsters
Recover in Second Frame

® DALHOUSIE TIGERS tasted
their first defeat in seven starts
when they bowed to the strong St,
F. X. quintet 45-38 in Antigonish
on Friday. The Dal hoopsters lost
the match in the first five minutes
when they failed to cope with the
3d-man fast breaks of their opponents often leaving three men to
break unguarded on the basket
while the third worked the ball.

St. F. X. started very fast, leaving the Tigers half-dazed on the
floor. Within eight minutes the Antigonish boys built up an‘18 point
margin, leading 21-3, with speedy
Lorne Whalen doing most of the
scoring on plays set up by Bill
Ritchie and Frank Mooney.

Paced by Blair Dunlop, who netted his entire 12 points in the final
frame, the Tigers rallied to hold
their own and even out-score their
opponents by one point. St. F. X.
displayed their same good offensive but lacked sufficient defensive
power. Being closely guarded, their
lightning plays were not as successful ds previous,

Lineup: G. Hart 4, Dunlop 12,
Farquhar 10, MacDonald 4, Giffen
2, Creighton, Knight 6, Algie.

 

Refreshment
coming up

The Coca Cola Company of Canada, Ltd., Halifax

ot

4

a's
eit al att

Hold Dartmouth 46-44

   

To Gain Play-off Berth

Drop 28-33 Decision to Fighting King’s Septet
@® AFTER A SOUND TROUNCING at the hands of the lowly
King’s quintet, 33-28 on Tuesday night, the Dalhousie Cubs
came back to fight hard for a well earned victory, winning

46-44 Wednesday night,’ and

position.
Cubs 46: Darthmouth 44
Realizing that their play-off

hopes were dangling in the breeze,
the Cubs went into the Wednesday
game to check their much taller
opponents very close and bearly
squeeze out a 46-44 victory. The
Cubs had the greater advantage in
the play in the initial frame, and
led by Adam Smith, who garnered
14 points in this canto, went on to
take a 26-17 lead at half-time.
However, this lead was not to
last, and with elongated Fred Pittman pacing his team, the harbour
lads fought back and steadily overcame their deficit until with only
2 minutes to go, they were behind
only 5 points. Adam Smith sunk
two penalty shots and Coulter,
Pittman, and Bowes scored for
Dartmouth to make the
44-43 with thirty-five seconds remaining. Smith was then successful on a break away to give the
Cubs a three point margin, and
with three seconds remaining, Barry made a foul shot for the last
score, giving Dal a 46-44 victory.
Cubs 28: Kings 33
Having given Stadacona a whipping the night before, the overconfident Tigers entered the game

FroshTurn Back Meds

--LawClipsCommerce

@ IN AN EXCITING Interfaculty
basketball match, the surging
Frosh quintet eked out an important win over Meds on Saturday
night, leading 26-24 at the final
whistle. In the other scheduled
games, Law took over second place
in the standings when they defeated the slipping Commerce squad
83-80, while Arts and Science defaulted to Engineers to put the
Draughtsmen in a tie with Frosh
for the front position,

Lineups: Frosh—Hannington 12,
MacKenzie, J. Morrow 8, Henderson, D. Rogers 1, MacKay 4, Kaulback, McLeod 1.

Meds—Stevenson 8, Cox, Ashley,
D’Arcy 6, Foster 4, McLennan 6.

Law—Hatfield 9, Smith 4, Mitchell 11, Wilson, Hickman,
dam 8, Friel 1.
Commerce—Kenty 6, James 2, F.

Ds
|

score

 

tod
Rogers 12, Mont 5, B. Morrow

Boite.

 
   

thus made secure a playoff

against King’s sure of a victory.
However, they figured without the
King’s fighting spirit, and, while
King’s were the weaker team, they
won through sheer fight, the Cubs
being very listless on the floor.

Lne-ups: Dalhousie (Darthmouth:): Smith 18, Tilley, Creighton 4, Mitchell, Robinson 11, F.
Rogers 3, Blakeney 8, Algie, J.
Morrow 2. .

Dalhousie (Kings): Smith 6,
Mitchell 1, Creighton 4, Tilley,
Robinson 5, F’. Rogers, Blakeney 9,
J. Morrow 3, Algie.

Jones Stars As Girls
Defeat Q.E.H. 34-20

® SEVERAL of the players of the
girls’ basketball teams staged an
exhibition game with Q.E.H.S. on
Monday, defeating the Elizabethans 34 to 20. By the end of the
first quarter the Dal girls were
really warmed up, and from then
on they kept well in the lead.

The outstanding player of the
evening was Pat Jones, who gave
a fine exhibition of shooting with
her ever accurate long shots dropping in from all sides. Jessie Sherman displayed some cool calculating, and managed to keep the
scorer busy chalking up the points.
Q.E.H.S. played a great game and
fought hard to thwart their opponents’ fast moves.

Lineup: P. Jones, S. Cutie, J.
Sherman, J. Robertson, E. Cruickshank, L. A. Hayes, T. Aslin, F.
Doane.

 

 

The
‘Red Cross

in Halifax has undertaken |

supply the needs of Camp Hill
Hospital for blood donations,
and other hospitals in the area.
Dalhousie, which made a magnificent contribution in wartime
years, was asked to continue its
work for these wounded veterans.

Phone 3-7178 for appointments,
at the Dalhousie Public Health
Clinic Wednesday night.

Groups of 40 can arrange their ||
own clinics. |

—

 

AO fp
JO Lit

 
 

 

 

  
  
 
 

 

i

 
