     
   
   
   
  
 
 
 

 
 

 
  

OLDEST

HALIFAX, N. 8., OCTOBER 12,

  
  
 

STUDENT

   

1945

 

,. a oy aC eee eee
Re PUT AES ST SSE YUE Mees

as

 

PUBLICATION

No. 2

 

 

 

 

housie, Acadia Meet To
Samote Better Relations

& DALHOUSIE is again this year ES ae to visit Acadia for a football match and large

numbers of supporters are expected to make the trip. Due to the ill-feeling caused by several
unfortunate incidents last year, a meeting of Student Body Representatives of the two groups

was held to prevent a reoccurence of trouble.

King and A] Blakeney. —

Representing Dal were Larry Sutherland, Ted

Various methods of smoothing relations between the two factions were considered and
the Resolutions are a result of these discussions.

 

Se of Dalhousie-Acadia

Joint Student Committee

 

(As approved by the Dalhousie Student Council, Oct. 3, 1945)
1. Entertainment for Dalhousie Students at Acadia.

The committee suggests that, at the dance following the
annual football game at Acadia, equal numbers of Dalhousie
und Acadia students be admitted, after the teams and their

- guests have been accommodated.

The Dalhousie Students’

Council is to be responsible for the allotment of their share of

admissions.

 

   

2. Conduct of Visiting Students.
_Each University is to be responsible for the conduct of its
own students, both during the game and at the dance.

3. Reporting in University Newspapers.

, The ccoperation of the editors of the respective student
z newspapers is to be sought in an endeavour to prevent the
3 baba of eae material.

 

a 1-2-3 es

GUILTY

 

When I say “Hold it!” Everybody hold!

The cameraman moves in on a

sophomore, or perhaps we should say, freshette brain-wave.

@ DALHOUSIE Hrosh breathed an
audible sigh of relief on Friday
last in the Gym when the announcement came over the mike,
“Frosh you are once again hurans!” In other words they doffed
their regalia, plus a timid, subservient look, automatically
brourzht on at the sight of a
sophomore, and became fullfledged “stoodents” of Dalhousie.
This event took place at the
Freshie-Soph Dance, before one of
the largest turnouts of students in
many years, with over 600 in attendance. Tribute must be paid to
the sophomore committee

possible. |
‘To help things: along two gentle

who
spared nothing (including frosh) to_
make the dance as successful as

 
 
   
  
  
  
  

i : _sophs, (Judge) Bob Roome and

disregard of rules, insubordination,
lack of proper regalia, insubordination, etc.

The first ease, Miss Petie Miller,
attempted to make the new caretaker, O’brien, commit bigamy and
she received a warm reception.
Next were three freshettes, accused of letting the air out of a

sophomore (his tires — Mr.

Roome’s, and because of this they
were taught the first lesson in
baking, having eggs broken over
their pans.

Among others faring well, because of the thoughtfulness of the

kind sophs, were four other hungry

freshettes, who were allowed to eat
bread and molasses in front of
envious onlookers. Then four
“freshmen complained of “how dry

they were.” Their situation

changed rapidly but their spirits
were not dampened too much.
Sam Pal lad, quiet, modest, little

osen Sam ick, fave ‘a Tea ing on
ie ‘ ” while Ctcichinn
en » =O gel

  
 
   
 

The first resolution is an attempt
to deal fairly with a difficult propositiin. The Saturday Night Acadia
Dance is the main source of entertainment for the students of that
college, as recreational facilities in
Wolfville are scarce. Added to
this is the fact that the number in
attendance is limited by law and
this restriction is the main source
of trouble. To permit all visiting
Dal students to enter the dance
would mean that very few from
Acadia could attend and vice versa.
Therefore a compromise was
reached, as both groups looked forward to the dance. Equal numbers
would attend from both colleges
and neither side would have just
cause for complaint.

Dal students planning to attend
the dance are expected to make arrangements through their own
representative.

Student Behaviour

Another item which was and is
a constant source of irritation is
the hatf-time interlude each year,
when the home crowd (either Dal
or Acadia) surge out of the stands
and, by force of numbers, try to
mop up the field with the visiting

(Continued on page 2

C.0.T.C. Reports
No Volunteers

@ DALHOUSIE’S C.0.T.C. and
U.N.T.D. report that there have
been no enlistments as yet since
the beginning of the college year.
Active throughout the war years,
with considerable interest being
shown by students in general, the
two organizations are this year ex
 

 periencing a marked slump.

Previously compulsory, the C. O.
T. C. -is voluntary now gnd the
number of hours of training a week
has been reduced from six to three.
When interviewed on the subject,
Major Faulkner, C.O. of the Dalhousie Corps, said the greatest
interest had been shown this year
by regular army veterans, many of
whom saw service overseas. He
admitted, however, there had been
no volunteers for enlistment to
date. There had been an order up,
he said, since the beginning of
classes, calling for volunteers.
Should there be any enrollments in
the C.0.T.C., absence from training
would be dealt with, as in the past,
with military disciplinary action.

Although there have been no new
volunteers in the U.N.T.D. at Dalhousie this year, there are a number who signed up previously for
three years who are still attending
training programmes. Changes in
the training syllabus from last
year include three hours of training instead of six, and the place of
instruction changed from University property to Naval property.
There are approximately 50 persons in ‘the U.N T. D. this year, at

sires it, this

- students.
» will be entertaipe

Sir Frederick Pucklele
To Speak on India
After the War

@ THE FIRST gathering of the
45/46 edition of the Dalhousie
Round Table Group will feature an
address by Sir Frederick Pucklele
on “India After the War.”

The meeting will take place in
the Engineering Common Room on
Thursday, October 18, at 8 o’clock.

The topic is a very timely one,
coming, as it does, just when the
new British Government is in the
act of entering negotiations with
the All-India Congress. The attention of the world is drawn to
this locale as various countries try
to interpret the attitude which will
be taken in foreign affairs by the
Labour Government, and it is felt
that a good yardstick for measurement of this attitude will be the
treatment of the Indian Problem.

The speaker is very well qualified
to talk about his subject as Sir
Frederick has devoted over twentyfive years in high positions in the
Indian Civil Service, gaining a
thorough knowledge of the country
and of its people. He is an Oxford
graduate and joined the Indian
Civil Service prior to the last war,
seeing action in Northern India
during the Great Struggle.

At present he is ecnsultant to the
British Embassy in Washington
and in recent years he has lectured
throughout the United States and
Central Canada on the many
phases of the Indian situation.

Perhaps new students to Dal,
and also those who have been
absent for.some time, are wondering what the Round Table Group is
and how it operates. The group
consists of all students o£ Dalhousie University who are interested
in the causes or reasons for recent
events in present-day happenings
and in prospects for the future.
The Round Table operated
upon the principle of open discussion. Speakers of both local, national and international importance
are invited to address the ~Group
on varied topics and after the talk
there is a session of open discussion with the audience questioning
the speaker and comparing views
and ideas on the topics discussed.

Also, last vear interfaculty debates were held prior to the speakers’ appearance. If the group desystem will he followed again this year.

has

Lares Turnout Asked
For Acadia Trip

@ A BIG turnout at Acadia tomorrow was requested by Laurence
Sutherland, President of the Students’ Council, at a student forum
held yesterday in the gymnasium.
A good time for all those attending
the football games was indicated
by the arrangements which ‘have
been made. Although most students will be going to Wolfville by
ear or bus, Phil Raymond announced that space would be assured for those interested, on the
train.

Wolfville’s scanty eating facilities are to be augmented by a
sandwich lunch, provided by Acadia, for Dal students. The evening, dance in the Acadia gym provides for attendance of 125 Dal
Those wnable to attend
. by the comde jg nee 2) vg

 

 
 

See

 

 

Dr. A, E. Kerr, President of Dalhousie University, who welcomed
back the students last Thursday morning in his first address to them
since his appointment.

ake *
x os

ab
RB a

@ YESTERDAY, President Kerr addressed the student body

of Dalhousie and in a most able manner

pointed out to the

students the problems which faced them while at college.

 

Moot Court Upholds
Film Corp.’s Appeal

by A. SHEFFMAN

@ ALLAN BLAKENEY, K.C., represented a beautiful Russian Princess in an appeal against a decision granting her large damages,
instituted by Metro Goldwyn Mayer
who had lost the case in the lower
court, changed their lawyers and
were represented by Clinton
Havey, K-C., assisted by Arlett,
Blois and MeNeil. Blakeney, K.C.,
was supported by Foster, Fullerton and Patton, all of them leading
lights in the legal world

now

The personnel of the Court itself
was the most distinguished ever to
grace the Bench of the
Moot Court of Dalhousie. Thomas
G. Feeney, L.C.J, as Mr. Blakeney
remarked, can certainly be said to
lend great weight to the
Allan H. Butler does credit to a
family which for many centuries
devoted its members to the service
of Democracy and Justice.

Abraham Sheffman, L. J., a gift
to the Bench from the Commission Government of Newfoundland,
brings with him a vast amount of
knowledge of all matters pertain
ing to fish and fog.

supreme

3ench.

Case Appealed

Ina large nutshell, the argument
was as follows: Metro put out a
film about the life and death of
the notorious Rasputin, the Mad
Monk, and in one of the scenes the
good name of the Princess was
dragged through the mire. ‘The
Lower Court awarded her £25,000
damages. Metro thought this was
too much, so they now appeal to
the Highest of All Courts, the Supreme Moot Court of Dalhousie.

Before the case got underway,
the junior counsel made fine
speeches of flowery congratulations
to their Lordships on their elevation to the Bench. Some smacked
of insincerity, some even derided
the money-making capabilities of
their Lordships while practising at
the Bar, but nevertheless they were
all received with equanimity. by the
Bench.

Bench Disagree

Havey K. C. tried to say that the
_. Parsieed on page a f

cd ee Jeerd . idee

‘Tuesday, October 16,

He began by welcoming all back
to Dal and then traced the course
of events during the previous five
months which had seen the Nazis
and Japs surrender unconditionally
within 100 days of each other and
“so the world was able to breathe
freely onee more.” “As a consequence we can now turn our
thoughts to the enterprise of peace.
I venture to remind you that peace
will have its problems and it will
present ample opportunities, for
contributing te the common good.”

President reminded the
students that wherever they went
they would be representing Dal and
he hoped they would do so with disand he then stresser
three major points:

Kerr

cinction,

Studies First
First,
studies

“you should give your
the first place in your at
tention. Dal has always prided itself on its academic standards and
you will only be able to meet the

requirements of your classes if you
do henest work. If you are industrious, the first reward of your
faithfulness will be success in fulfillment of the University’s demands.”

‘Secondly, “having put the first
consideration in its right place, you
endeavour to play your part as
individuals in the general program
of student activities. No definition
of a university is satisfactory
which does not expressly recognize
the fact that it is a community
and that it has a distinctive life of
its own. Every student ought to
take some part in the activities of

5

university life.”

Attention to Religion

Thirdly, ‘throughout your years
here, give due attention to the interests of your religious faith, I
accept without qualification the
judgment that the chief fact about
any man or any nation is his or its
reilgion.”

“Now it is not uncommon for
students in university ‘to begin
to entertain doubts about the great
tradition of the faith. I have deep
sympathy with young people who
thus wrestle to know the truth and

(Continued on page 2)

 

Ex-Service Personnel

in Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering and the pre-professional

courses are asked to meet Dean —

Wilson and the Registrar in the
Chemistry Theatre at 12 noon on

VG io

esi .

sci

 
 

      
   
   
    
  
  
      
   
   
  
   
    

 
 
   

 

 
   
   
   
  
  
 

 

 

 

ine Meret it Tease 1 Pay ; If get eit 2
Waa rh Met Eines ite |
ap My, ea a : ‘ f
A ri rl at . oe aS = _ ;
ae i ; a
wee att i DALHOUSIE GAZETTE October 12, 1945
cay Cael: Saati Ae dah ihe Be ht } ®
ee Staff ai Mine, Council Holds (
4 a dle va GER dw ight ec ntarriiwe go ; ’ |
ies. if ig @? Business Manager ..Bob McCleave First Meeting Picobac’s the pick
1EY y =. 7 key Ge Associate editors: £ the Frat House!
j Rd Leia peel NeWa) vos ia i:<' sss Blair ee 1—Proposal put forward by Glee c .
4 ; ES i Don Harris Club President, Harry Zappler, What a tobacco..
fF f ’ fa Sports ........ Alec Farquhar that the Students’ Council sponser
4 fe Les Weatures io. e eee eee .Al Lomas colts 1 | ild f rant ~
, Literary ....... Morton Norman a ean oe a 2 lege eo sO mila so tragra
Photography ... Don Morrison and orchestra. ouncil appoin
Cartoons—Bob Tuck. Mr, Zappler to head Organizing 36 cool «-« SO long
>) SEEMS. Cirenlation—Isobel Wilmont, Ge gh etl a ad- lasting.
Ph cee ART 824 aes ae Anita Sideris. vanced budget o 00 to finance
] or > than 76 years devoted to the interests of the student body. siulincinaiy expeliditires,
PP MMR Ee Neo gicnere tr yt 2—Suggestion put forward that
—e : eee) pe, eas # C {| S oe the new Common Room be equipped Ay
Rion " e Dal-Acadia Game and True @) ege pirit with piano and nickelodeon. Sug- oe - 5
Res yee se aint } gestion adopted and Art Hartling :
ORROW a censiderable section of the upon loyalty at home rather than aggressive- appointed to chairmanship of Ar- : [ele |
body will journey to Wolfville to sup- ness abroad. It places support of your own rangements Committee. oes eee | aR cae:
Tigers in the traditional Dalhousie- endeavours before criticism against those of a cs JHE PICK OF TOBACCO,
football match at Raymond Field. As rival. And, it demands conduct of a caliber E h S a, et ake“ aakere ae a ae ae a P
_ in previous years, we will probably experience equal to your own high opinion of the institu- ros croungers
_ the usual wet weather, late hours, and slow tion to which you belong,—not the rowdyism Turned Leose
trains, but with that, much of the similarity and ep gina oad eee your oe ' —
to former trips should end. The annual out- tempt or its reputation when you can so free- @ propERTy around the city was “~
_ break of disorder and ill-feeling between mem- ly drag it through the mud. Of this true col- jot catelast Phiraday wight as the FOOTWEAR pial A Word
rt of the two student bodies has now been lege spirit we have seen very little on the  pyoch class went a-scrounging with ee of Welcome =
outlawed upon orders from the student gov- campus these past few years. a scavenger hunt. Bob Roome met We specialize in footwear
_ ernments of both universities. And, should Recently representatives from the student them in the Gym with a list of that will fit every college Boieuakeend to née comers
- these orders not be carried out, each has pub- governments of Dalhousie and Acadia met in items to bring back, among which taste — for either service or and returning students a
ov i — lieally committed itself to cancel indefinitely an effort to improve the situation and ward off Were a ten-cent stamp, a live house dress wear, for around the cordial welcome to bring
all future competition with the other. neue Wem feet ae et fly, a doll, a red pencil, a horse- sens or attending social RVEle "soshiens to
aie eet yur) . ; . _ on in all branches of intercollegiate activity. hair, matches from Normans or freee Birks. ™
Bea Although this age-old rivalry, as its lead With the open discussion of each other’s short- the Green Lantern, and the vener- ss ea) datos
ing instigators have called it, is resurrected comings, and the mutual adoption of methods ® apie Gus ie Soe saeue ba Come and visit — even it
every year by some minor misunderstanding ag ffect a conciliation, they have swept aside _ Me occas hs Viisee ae “Hartt”. you ‘have no problems.
Dieta f he fundamental oO eftec ae ‘ ‘ VY Le : S ne parties set out after their > if aii k nea
edt eee romney aed eects of that ‘he possibility of a future misunderstanding. oot and thirty minutes later the eas ,~ - + Murray”, and
och talked shoak cha Ga a centistrcca in- ‘lSo, each university has accepted the re-  \inning group was back carrying Ean Henry Birks and Sons | .
fluence. collece spirit.- which pervades the ‘SPoMsibility of curbing the acts of thoughtless-/ a1 the spoils. The winning party > Limited
bet ives “nce, a Party, Pp th ness, and occasionally of gToss Ignorance, ON ¢onsisted of Janice Thomas, Mary Shane $ Shoe Store :
_ minds of a large number of students on bo the part of its members. At Dalhousie, fines, [Lou Christie. Harlow Fielding Registered Jewellers
irae Without giving the tatter too much suspension of student privileges, and even ex- Howard Pye and Basil Bloomer. 397 Barrington Street American Gem Society |
_ thought they oe en gem his pulsion are the penalties contemplated. More et Halifax Barrington St. - Halifax |
ayes the principle that college spirit involves than this the student governments can not do. L T oo
-_ not love of one’s own college so much as hat- bot! arge Lurnou
f fed for alll its neighbours. Though they feel , 1t remains the duty of each student, both “(Continued from page 1)
Baie , here and at Acadia, to take the chip from his

 
   
  
  
   
 
   

no obligation to turn out and support their
et own organizations—and this symptom is par- ticularly noticable here at Dalhousie—they
hesitate not an instant to tear down and carry
Off a goal post from their opponents’ field, all

Bo

Chie y

the while congratulating themselves on_hav__._ing done a heroic deed, and one in keeping
___with the grand old varsity tradition.

‘True college spirit, on the other hand, rests

tion

shoulder, and to see that the person next him

does the same.
- to come the future of inter-collegiate competibetween Dalhousie and Acadia,
perhaps between Dalhousie and the rest of the
province (for Acadia has always played a vital
part in any provincial league) rests upon your
conduct tomorrow.
then prepare to accept the consequences.

Remember: for many years

and

Make your choice, but

qt a! > Pe
ae
a t :
a } ~
av * ¥
- i

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
     
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
  

‘& _— sHoRT sTorY

} NAZI BOY
- @ The boy was about thirteen, thin,
undernourished, and wretchedly
_° hungry. He was poking among the
ruins of an old church, trying to
remember what the church had
looked like before Allied bombs
had destroyed it. His clothes, alGPS a ths though neatly patched, had become
too large for his shrinking body,
and his once rounded cheeks had
fallen into shadowy hollows: His
name was Eric, and he was both
dazed and bewildered by what had
_ happened to him and his country.
His father was a layman who
pari had helped to construct buildings
for Hitler. But then, he would
; ve help construct buildings for any
one as long as he was paid enough

marks to support his family.
_ Eric’s mother was the average
_ German frau, who attended to her
_ house and looked after her hus_ band and young son. Eric, him
Pier 8 _ self, had been a school boy and no
doubt would continue to be one, if
_ the country ever got settled. Six
_ year ago he remembered sitting at
a school desk listening to his teach
er talk about Hitler, “Hitler will
Mf _. make Germany great,” she had
| said. “Hitler will build Germany
up. He will protect us from our
enemies. We shall never forget
him.” The words had been dinned

_ them.
He remembered the day his
father had come in with the news
. that Germany was about to attack
Poland. “The French and British
___will not like it,” he had said. “We
‘may have to fight them.” His
mother had been stirring some_ thing in a pot on the stove. She
had looked up and nodded her
_ head. “Ja, and if we get war, we
shall have misery and bloodshed. I
remember the last one.”
+ Then he, Eric, had spoken up, “If
we fight we shall win,” he had
__eried. “Hitler will make Germany
at. He will protec

 

“That is what they have taught
you at school,” his mother had: re
into his ears. He could not forget

ect us from our

win. If they did not win they
would be destroyed. Wasn’t there
proof that the British and Russians
were cruel and merciless enemies?
Didn’t their soldiers say so?
Didn’t Herr Goebbles say so? But
they had not won. They had been
beaten, and Eric could remember
how terrified he and his mother
had been when Allied troops had
come marching through the city.
They had not, howeevr, been molested, although the Russians had
driven them nearly crazy with
questions,

Now he understood that Germany no longer belonged to Germans, but had been divided into
zones between the British, Russians
and Americans. The horrors of
Belsen and Buchenwald had been
made known to him, but he could
not believe them. He had never
heard of them before—no one had.
At any rate, there was nothing
they could do about it now. Nothing seemed to matter much any
more except getting food. The
thought of food was always in his
mind. Black bread and beans, a
little jam and potatoes were all
they had, and it was not enough.
Idly his foot kicked against a
stone. He looked up and saw an
American soldier approaching him.
The soldier held out a package of
cigarettes. His voice was not unkind. He wanted Eric to show him
the ruins of the city. Eric reached
out eagerly for the cigarettes, his
mind still busy with the thought of
food. The cigarettes might buy a
little jam or potatoes for next
day’s meals. Listlessly he pointed
to the empty church, then strode
‘off down the street pointing out
other ruins in the city.

 

Dalhousie Acadia Meet—

(Continued from page 1)

supporters. At the dances each
group tries to shout the other
down, or outdo one another in rudeness and more ill-will is created.
Representatives of both groups
were agreed that all rivalry should
be confined to the actual games,
and that all spectators should limit their activities to vocal exertions only. It was felt that each

_ University should be responsible

for the behaviour of its own

“lt 7 ; - ; i . of A fae IF : .
ee Be) = Ly i oe i ae aid ; .
/ p aa ve ae Se te a . rm
iat oe: mera 8 2 IO 2 eee
“USING Ge Oh Se de

_ Students, and accordingly the sec
ond resolution was drafted. The
Dal Student Council has added a
postscript for Dal students by announcing that any further outbreaks by Dal students at games
with Acadia would result in a
suspension of competition between
Dal and Acadia teams.

The third resolution was introduced because the respective college papers helped to fan the
flames of the dispute by means of
eartcons and articles, especially a
pre-game Gazette cartoon, which,
while it amused Dal Students, incensed the Acadians. As a result
of the third resolution, both papers
are burying the axe in the ground,
not in each other, and are trying
to promote goodwill among their
respective student bodies.

No Meals

One final point was brought up
by Acadia at a recent meeting to
prevent trouble. Dal students
planning to attend the game in
Wolfville must be prepared to go
elsewhere for meals as the resources at both Acadia University

-and the town of Wolfville are very

limited. Arrangements are being
made to transport the Dal crowd
to Kentville by bus for their meals,
and then bring them back to Wolfville where they can attend the
game and the dance and rejoin the
train taking them home.

CGNTRIBSUTORS

@ THE GAZETTE will accept for
publication original short stories,
poems, and other articels of a general literary interest. Contributions should be addressed to the
literary editor, and either. mailed
or given to the editor personally,
or left at the Gazette office in the
basement of the Arts building.
Manuscripts, if typed, should be
double-spaced, and cover one side
of the page only.

Points will be awarded towards
a Literary Gold ‘D,’ depending on
the quality and originality of the
material submitted. In order to receive credit towards a ‘D,’ the
editor must know your name,
which, of course, will remain
strictly confidential, pending the
author’s wish. to remain anonymous. te

 

 

bined glee clubs of the two universities.

Other business covered by the
student forum Thursday was the
unanimous election of Leah Tremaine as Glee Club Secretary, and
the passing of a motion authorizing the Students’ Council to request the University for a holiday
on Saturday to facilitate attendance at the Dal-Acadia football
games,

 

 

Moot Court—

(Continued from page 1)
damages were unreasonable. This
found favour with Feeney L.C.J,
and with Butler L. J., but not with
Sheffman L. J., who thought that
the Princess deserved every. cent
she got from the court, and on this
ground as well as others dissented
from the judgment of the other two
to hold that the Appeal must fail.
Feeney L.C.J. and Butler L. J.
held that the appeal should succeed
on the ground that the Princess
had not been sufficiently designated,

Generally speaking the case was
of high ealibre for which the Moot
Court is famous and held the rapt
attention of the first years who
had never before been favoured to
hear such brilliant exposition of
law by such a scintillating bench
and such assiduous counsels
Havey and Blakeney,

as

President Kerr—
(Continued from page 1)

I admire them for their refusal to

‘make their judgment blind,” | say

to you, therefore, hold on to your

religious faith.

Let me say again that we are
very happy to have you at Dalhousie. If you have any problem upon
which your professors can throw
any light, do not hesitate to speak
to them about it. They are interested in you and will appreciate every opportunity to help you. And
the door of the President's Office

will always be open to you.
eS NSSSatiNSE,

Graduating Class

Students in Arts, Science, Commerece and Engineering who expect
to receive degrees or diplomas at
next Convocation are requested to
leave their names with the Registrar as soon as possible, in order
that their courses may be checked.

ATTENTION

Remember the Students’ Council dance in the Gym tonight
at 9 p.m. Admission free to
all holding Students’ Council
ticket. Music supplied by
Jerry Naugler’s ten-piece orchesty 2.

 

 

~~ cach a - - oa a

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in

Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75 each for Nova Scotia students.
To Students with Engineering Diplomas: :
Modern Equipment, Instructional Staff with Individual Experience.

Write or Call for Calendar of Advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President

 

DAL OFF HOURS ‘

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS
COLLEGE

73 College Street

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the
seven courses are admitted as General Students.

The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursday

7.30 to 9.80 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING
will be valuable aid in future years

Enter any day Tuition counts from date of Registration

 

  
  
 
  
   
      
     
   
   
    
   

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty ‘i

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy,
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics,
' Languages and History.
are Pe ee Standing, leading to degrees
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Publie Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on -en
courses,

Edueation
Mathematics, Modern

trance and through the

The Professional Faculties
in

enjoys an unexcelled reputation
ened,

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, avera
in the B.Se,

Law, Medicine, Dentistry,

ge about $160 a year.
course, about $190 a year z

a
Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women,
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men. ¥:

 

~~ i e+) -_ i
plea Na ae 7 ahs,

‘
be

 
   

 

Sit ati ion TP icserste Service
Hl eads Contemplate Suicide

(Don’t sue the author! He means well)

by J. CRICKET McGOSH |

| COMMANDER HAZE was in a daze and Major Falcon was
n’. Now that the war was over and service training no
longer compulsory, there were less and less “volunteers”

; He trooping to enlist in their respective units. Offers of immed
Rah

   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

ae

__iate commission and promotion to the rank of colonel in three
_ weeks were getting a sceptical reception from the rank and’
Bes! ee io frenzied publicity crusade was not having its desired
por): Oe
Falcon and Haze were desperate.

They had even tried

parading about the campus in “priority suits” with giant placards on their backs depicting the wonders of service life in
peacetime. “Health is Wealth ... You Get Both in the Serv
ice,” and “Retire at 25 with a Pension; Enlist Now!”

How
ever, the undertaking had fallen through as students in gennee Eee them for some special species of the Frosh

 

JO ROBERTSON

@ JO WAS born in Bridgewater in
1925 and took a liking to the place
immediately. Such a liking in fact

that she lived there until going to
oe Havergill in 1942. Relating a very
normal childhood, Jo could not con
jure up even one extraordinary
happening for, as she put it, “publication, 7?

Jo attended school in Bridgewater until 1942, at which date she —
left the comforts of Nova Scotian
life for the pioneer life in Ontario
—namely Havergill Girls’ School.
However, like all true Nova Scotians she returned to the fold the
following year to enter Dalhousie‘
And at this point Jo really went
to work. Always a brilliant student, Jo reseives her B.Sc. with a
record this year that is truly
enviable. Although she is majoring in Math and Physics—enough
to stump anybody—Jo has found
time for a generous participation

‘in almost every Dal activity (with

the exception, perhaps, of the
D.A.A.C. and C.O.T.C.) Playing
guard on the girls’ basketball team
for two years and a member of the
badmington team—Jo last year
won her gold D, Besides this, she
has been vice-president of the Glee

Club, vice-president Sherriff Hall

House Committee, Freshette representative on Delta Gama; a mem
ber of Pi Beta Phi, and lastly—

president of the Arts and Science
Society.

Quiet, reserved and gracious—
an able and energetic worker—
“meet J 0 Robertson.

 

CAPITOL

_ Friday and Saturday

" - Van Johnson
_ Esther ‘Williams

 

  
   
   
  

family drifting about in the throes
of initiation. Some senior students
had even forced:the hapless pair to
scrub the senior walk with a toothbrush and submit to the ignomies
of a rotten egg shampoo. It was
all very humiliating.

Suddenly Falcon had an inspiration: “Why not unite your corpse
with mine, Haze, to form a Combined Operations Corpse. That
should appeal to the imagination
of adventure-spirited youth.”

Huge streamers and a dramatic
news story in The Gazoot spread
the news of the new Falcon-Haze
Combined Ops Corpse. The resutls
were revealing. Of the brave souls
who subsequently volunteered for
the course—both were found medically unfit. The celebrated union
of the two celebrated units had
failed. The Corpse was ready for
interment.

Hara-Kiri with Pusser Dirk

Standing on the playing field,
bedraggled and depressed, were
Falcon and Haze. They were ready
to end it all. There was nothing
else to live for.
the quick way out with the aid of
a “Pusser Dirk” (a dangerous weapon issued naval recruits) ... In
a few seconds it would all be...

Then fate intervened. A deep
masculine voice echoed across the
campus. It was Lieutenant Alan
Modlin, 2 IC to the deputy assistant quartermaster of the corpse.
“Pve good news, Sir,” he called.
“We've had a recruit. There’s
someone wants to join the corpse.
Oh, sir, isn’t it exciting ?”

“We can train this lad personal-—

ly,” said Haze triumphantly. “We
will let him demonstrate the benefits of our “Health is Wealtlt”
technique to the other students.
He will be a drawing card to the
Faleon - Haze Combined Ops
Corpse.”
Mimi Maimed

Whooping in unrestrained delight, the two figures leapt across
the field towards the orderly room.
“Oooops, sorry my dear,” said
Haze tripping over a member of
the Hovel Ground Hockey Squad

(Continued on page 4)

OXFORD

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“THREE IS A FAMILY ”
and “GENTLE ANNIE”

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

“GUEST IN THE HOUSE”

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“THE HORN BLOWS AT
MIDNIGHT”

and “CONSPIRATORS”

CASINO

An Odeon Theatre

*
Held Over!

 

   

 
  
 

They would take ~

_for


“AND NO eee FIREWATER”

_ nei. tag Wh oR gine foie 4 oh —
mh reer

2 ay Ao eee a ans IT

 

ne ye)

 

Forrest

-s ee aie

ere Fic) he,

oe oe Zp

en

  

GAZETTE FEATURES

1S

SES aX:
y <> AN :

 

Flashes

MED and LAW

@ THANKSGIVING, 1945,—to the
freshman class, the climax of a

spirited initiation to Dalhousie; to

the professional schools, a long
week-end; to anybody who cares to
pause and think about it, a convenient time for retrospect. For most
of the present student body, it is
the first peacetime Thanksgiving at
Dalhousie. The world is no longer
at war. Outward manifestations

- remain, of course, and these will

continue to remind us of the years
that have been, and are now
passed. Former associates have
returned—some are married, and
with families; others, wounded or
maimed, have not lost the smile of
friendship nor the vibrant handshake which were part of them at
Dalhousie; all have matured. They
have gained their maturity in the
toughest school known to mankind.
As returning students, they are
associated with those who have attended Dal during the war years,
and who as such have led a more
or less well-adjusted existence, in
comparative freedom from the violent extremes inevitably bound up
with war. To these students has
been given the opportunity to mature in the intellectual sense. A
judicious harmony of both will
result in a truly living Dalhousie.

During the past week, the Medical School was honoured by the
presence of Dr. Boris Babkin, Professor of Physiology at McGill.
While here he lectured to large
gatherings on the subject of gastric digestion.

We are pleased to note the return from service of the following
members of the faculty: Dr. J. A.
Noble, Dr. C. M. Bethune, Dr. E. F.
Ross, Dr. H. E. Taylor, Dr. T. M
Sieniewicz, Dr. V. O. Mader, Dr. H.
D. O’Brien, Dr. C. M. Jones.

A word of welcome to Dr. C. J.
W. Beckwith, Superintendent of the
City Tuberculosis Hospital, on his
recent appointment to the faculty.

Names make news. Here are a
few names: The top level of Dalhousie student administration is
notably absent this week-end.
President Sutherland has retired
to his Pictou County seat; VicePresident Smith to the quiet seclusion of Shubenacadie. Add to your
list of Shiffers men: Hirsch, Miller,
John Lauch and Lefty.

Med. Society’s first meeting was
poorly attended. The question of
the Journal wds brought up, and a
concrete proposal adopted. As a
result, applications are now called
the positions of Editor and
Business Manager of the Journal.
These may be referred to any
member of the Executive. Further

details appear on your bulletin

boards, which may be read _ with
the minimum of exertion either at
the Forrest building or at the
Clinic.

 

  
   
   
 

ORPHEUS
Friday and Saturday
“lM FROM ARKANSAS”
and “FLAME OF THE WEST”

@ WE WISH at this time to welcome our two new professors, Mr.
Hancock and. Mr, Milner, to their
new post here at Dalhousie.

Mr. Hancock comes to us from
Toronto University where he was
on the staff of the law school. Mr.
Milner is by no means a stranger
at Dal, having graduated in 1937.
Since his graduation he has done
government work in Ottawa.
With the additional number of
students here this year, and the
promise of a great year we feel we
have been very fortunate in obtaining the service of these two men.

“Mack,” our sometimes friend
and officer, has agreed to postpone
his nightly prowl for half an hour,
thereby enabling us to have an
extra two and a half hours a week
at our books. For “Mack” a sigh;
for “Mack” a tear.

Their Lordships, “Hanging”
Feeney, Alan “Foal” Butler, in the
case of Princess Youssopoff, decided she was not immoral but
merely a victim of circumstances,
and allowed the appeal by M.G.M.
Picture Co. His Lordship “Scheeming Scoffman” scoffed at the judgment and dissented very strongly.
To-day the decision in Philips &
Brooks is being appealed before
unparalleled judicial skill in the
vee of Chief Justice “Scorned

y “Swine” Martin; “Silent” Richseen L.J., and “Dooley” MacIntosh, L.J. Batt for the appellant
and Taylor for the respondent.
(Our hearts are with our fellow
men).

Numerous topies, resolutions and
amendments were the subject of
discussion in the Law Society meeting on October ninth.

“Dooley” MacIntosh was elected
as manager of the Law football
squad. “Dooley” who has returned
to Dal this year to complete his
law course, was a very active
member of Dal teams when he was

 

Maritime Universities .. .

 

ACADIA

@ “THE BEAUTIFUL COLLEGE on the hill,”
known as Acadia University,

‘otherwise

ranks high among Canada’s

educational institutions, not only because ‘of its excellent scho
lastic record, but also because of its beauty of location,

its

enthusiastic college spirit, and its educational and recre ational

equipment.

Situated in the heart of Nov

a Scotia’s lush and productive

Annapolis Valley, Acadia enjoys the reputation of having one

of the loveliest locations of any university.

The eampus and

its buildings are in keeping with the location and blend well

with the surroundings.

T;SQUARE

@‘LTHE KFLRSi week has drifted
into Valhalla or something, and has
left the place in a somewhat settled condition, Many Engineers
have aiready come down with that
common attliction known as D,T.S.
(UDratting ‘lable Stoop).

Lhe first meeting of the Engineering Society was held Oct. 2nd,
with new President Bob Wade in
the chair for the first time. Honorary President Copp said a few
words; managers for  interfac.
teams were appointed, and George
Van Beek was elected member-atlarge, replacing Vern Wallace who
has been demoted to Arts this year,

Notice: There will be a meeting
of the Horizontal Club at Acadia
tomorrow at the game. The executive of the Club will be elected at
that time. Membership cards to
the Horizontals this year will be
in the thirteen or twenty-six ounce
sizes.

Drafting Room Notes: Wanted—
a few gross of Air Wick to absorb
those appetizing cooking odors that
drift in to starving Mech. 4’s on
noon drafting class ... Women Beware: Waterfield is on the loose
again... What was “Nubbins”
Morgan doing at Wolfville last
week-end? ... Quote—unquote ...
Saskin: “Tootsie was a nice girl—
that’s the one with the tooth.”

   

 

here four years ago, promises to
have a team which will easily triumph over the medical scruff.

The Law Ball, one of the
prominent pre-war social activities,
will be held sometime before
Christmas, a committee of three
men, namely Abe Sheffman, Alex
Hart and Yoeman, were
elected to organize the first postwar law bail.

The hours of the library
also discussed and it was resolved
that every effort be made by the
society to extend the hours which
are at present not deemed to be
adequate to allow the first year
class to carry on its work.

Common Room facilities were
also on the board and it was hoped
that more chairs could be secured
for the “Glory Hole” in the near
future.

most

were

Focal Point of Activities
the life of Acadia
through its administrative and
faculty offices, University Hall is
the focal point of campus activities,
It is built of white stone and incorporates within its architecturally pleasing exterior a fine museum
of art, a faculty hall, and an
auditorium capable of seating nearly 2,000 persons.

One of the most popular build
;
+i

Directing

ings at Acadia is the Emerson
Memorial Library. It contains

facilities for handling 100,000 volumes and provides adequate space

for special collections and for
study and reading rooms.
Another popular . building, and

one of the chief attractions at the
university, is the Music Hall. In
addition to “many practice rooms
and instruction studios, there is
also a room for a record library
and phonographs. This room ranks
close to the gymnasium in popularity among the students.

Provision for the study of home
economics is provided by two buildings and their elaborate equipment.
They are the Seminary building,
housing the household science laboratories, and the Practice House
where students obtain practical
experience in the subject.

Three science buildings on the
campus are used for the teaching
of many branches of science. They
are the Carnegie Science building
for physics and chemistry, a second

science building for biology and
geology, and Rhodes hall for the

study of engineering.
Large Swimming Pool

In the War Memorial Gymnasium
there is a large swimming pool, a
standard gymnasium floor and extensive locker, shower and exercise
rooms,
activities of
educational interest are stressed at

lxtra-curricular

Acadia. Some of the student
organizations are: the Choral Club,
Orenestral Society, Philosophy
Club, Le Cerele Francais, Science
Club, Aeadia Dramatic Society,
Engineers’ Club, Home Economies
Society, Celtic Society and Theological Club.

The name of Acadia is rightly
held high by the student body.

The excellent college spirit is well
founded and carries through to
post-graduate days when all members of the alumni can be proud to
say, “I am a graduate of Acadia.”

 

Time for a get-together... Have a Coke

oo OY Sibi hi party ad Success

It's easy to plan a date at home when you have frosty
bottles of Coca-Cola in the refrigerator. Have a Coke says

the hostess, and the affair is off to a flying start. To young

or old, this friendly invitation opens the way to better

acquaintance, adds zest and enjoyment to entertaining.

»)

 

Everywhere, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes.
The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax ~

TEs a Gk Le
Wipe cian ori eee i j

the

—

      

courses are asked to “rmees
Wilson and the Registrar in the
Chemistry Theatre at 12 noon on
Tuesday, October 16.

dt weet Stadia d ait

Page Three

ee

       
   
 
 

  

       
  
  
   

  

   
   
       
  

aS oe

  
   
  

 
 

        
  

tee a 2 ee ee! Pee

  
  

ee 14h

     

a ee

  
 
 

    
      
 

> ime ok, sere

 
 
     
   
      
   
    
       
 
    
    
      
     
       
      
      
       
      
     
     
     
        
        
       
      
        
          
        
      

   
      
        
     
   
         
   
       
             
       
     
        
       
        
     
        
       
      
     
   
     
   
        
      
     
     
   
       
      
     
        
    
    
 

  
     
    
 

    
 
  
  
 

  
 

 
 
   
  
   

 
     
  
       
 
    
   

TF

mr 4 r.
ae

at,

——,

c
S ae
i

<> ee
(a Le ee eo
_ a

or

ee
5

_ ¥- = pee a Pa ; ¥i y 2
— — ae." , E J a3 . ae oo - = ia
> a “ sha io t

Fe 2
. as %

a) 8. Eenval Fifteen to Face
a es ho in Feature Tilt

LS ee he sie campus and S aeorind Acadia in the two games that are to
i be played at Raymond Field in Wolfville tomorrow afternoon.

_ Many supporters are making the trip with the team and they

Kick-off at One-Thirty

Kick-off time has been called for
one-thirty o’clock in the Intermedjate affair. Both Universities boast
strength in their second teams.
Acadia have welcomed back from
the services many athletes, as have
we at Dalhousie and have adequate
material to field powerful squads
for both games. Some of their
players are holders of degrees and

Key Man

DICK CURRIE

_ expect to see a battle-royal in both fixtures.

thus are ineligible for Intercollegiate play, however, they will line
up with the Intermediate Hatchetmen. Notable among these . men
are Mouzer, Buckler, Bayne and
MeclIvor. It might be noted that
MclIvor is the same star who played
with Dalhousie’s Varsity for three
years

Dalhousie’s Intermediate
are fortunate in having the services of Post-grads Howard MacEwan, Carton and Bill Bell. These
men add speed and experienced to
the second stringers and they will
force the very best from Acadia.

“Anybody’s Game”

The afterpiece sees the Varsity
squads pitted against each other.
Both these teams are star-studded
and experts conjecture that “it is
anybody’s game.” Most of the
Acadia ’44 edition has returned
and it is strengthened with the ex
Cubs —

MAYBE UM SMARTING,
BUT I'M NOT SMART’

 

Tigers Drop 5-3 Decision to
Tech in Intercollegiate Debut
McQuinn and MacKenzie Star

@ In the first game of the year, the
went down to defeat at the hands of Nova Scotia Tech,

Dalhousie Football team
the

 

1945

HALIFAX, N.S., OCTOBER 1

 

Dal Seniors and St. Mak

Alumni Battle to Scoreless Draw

@ On Thanksgiving Day the Dal Tigers and the powerful St.
Mary’s Alumni team played a scoreless game which was witnessed by a fairly large crowd despite the heavy downfall.

In the first half the St. Mary’s Scrum got the ball most
of the time but the Dal back-field worked hard and kept St.
Mary’s in check. Although they threatened a number of
times, they could not carry the ball across tht Dal line.

In the second half the Dal scrum
played much better and sent the
ball back to their backfield;. the
ball was then kicked deep into St.
Mary’s end many times.
thing that saved the
was big Tarp Walsh, who kicked
and ran the ball out of St. Mary’s
end almost every time Dal threat
 

Large Crowd Attend
First D.G.A.C, Meeting

@ Girls’ sports at Dal got off to a
flying start on Tuesday evening in
the gym when an _ enthusiastic

The only
Santamarians

servicemen who formerly held score 5-3. Though Dal carried most of the play, the lack of crowd turned out for the first ened. _

Varsity spots. The Acadia scrum practice and the more experienced Tech scrum showed not- D.G.A.C. meeting. The president, McQuinn and Hunt, who kept
is reputed to be lighter than in iceably. Virginia Phillips, presided and in- Walsh in check, and Paul Howard
past years and thus Dalhousie will Dal Controls Play troduced the basketball, badminton, Played good ball for Dal, while
have a decided weight edge in the In the first half the play was controlled by Dal, but they ground hockey, tennis and archery Walsh starred for St. Mary’s.

forward pack. Both teams are fast
in the backfield and the match
should be filled with thrills and
spills all the way.

Situation Desperate—

could not capitalize on their chances because of poor tackling

and a weak scrum.
two beautiful runs.

In this half Farquhar and Smith made
Farquhar ran for 30 yards before being

brought down, while Smith went for forty vards.

 

In the second half the play

managers who outlined their plans
for the year.

 

constitution

from inter-club to inter-class com- ORCHESTRA

A change in the 5 |
petition was made since inter-class .
|

 

gi ' stayed in the Tech end for the leagues are being stressed this 123 Willow Street
A key man in the °45 tball (Continued from page 3) th, } [ first five minutes. At the six Year and .each class elected a Call 4-9673
aie a Me ae who was working off a charley on @ ( @ (nes minute mark Eric MacKenzie pick- ™anager. Norma Sherman was

quite a reputation for himself as a
rugbyist on *42, ’43 Varsity teams.

ee Bettet
Marks

. FAVORITES

YOU'LL PASS ALL
YOUR TESTS
WITH HONOURS?

He
IRADO

horse.”

“Ow, you broke my leg.” It
was Mimi Madonna, star forward
of Coach Midge Lanyard’s aggregation. No doubt of it... her
leg was broken. She would never
make the lineup against H.L.C.
Kindergarten. And there was to
be a tussle with the Old Ladies’
Home next week. 
Dashing into the orderly room,
they found the lone recruit—first

by Alex. Farquhar

-@ Tomorrow at
. Raymond Field in
‘Wolfville our
Dalhousie Tigers
i face their longstanding rivals—
The Acadia Axef men. As always,

 

ed up a Tech fumble, ran the ball
ten yards and then started the
passing play: Mackenzie to Allan to
Dunlep to Ernst, with Ernst crossing the line for the try. Currie
tried for the extra points but the
kick failed.
Tech Capitalizes
The play see-sawed back and

forth for the next ten minutes until the fifteen minute mark when

elected to the executive as swimming manager and Sheila Currie as
ping-pong manager. By majority
vote, archery was raised to the
rank of a minor sport.

 

Corsages
A “Colonial’’

Corsage designed by ROSEDALE,
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

It was anonunced that Miss
Leonard had donated a silver spoon
to be presented to the girl who
proves to be the best all-round
sport on the campus. The evening
ended with a basketball game between Freshettes and upperclass
 

glad sign seen by these grizzled a both teams will MacDonald, a Tech player, capital- men, the latter retaining their dig- 38) NURSERIES Limited -..
Veteeate ia mhny a. moon. be out th ere ized on two Dal errors by falling nity by a 24-6 win. BARRINGTON /T- HALIFAX
“Sien here, lad! ey i fighting tooth and nail, seeking to on the ball behind the Dal line. PEC A Pee RAW

’ nay bs bring laurels’ to their respective Kerr made good the kick, making a ae

to the Falcon-Haze Combined Ops
Corpse.”
Martini Gums Up Works

“Der’s sumpin’ wrong somwar,”
said the lad who was an Engineering student. “De lootenant here
didn’t let me finish the sentence.
I said I would like to join up wit
youse ... but I was gonna say
that I ain’t allowed to. Too bad,
coz I like to make wit dah salutes
and ail that there military stuff.
But Professor Burning Martini
says me English I-A studies will
take up all me time. So its no
dice. I still say, ‘us Engineers
don’t need no English’.”

“Oh well,” sobbed Falcon, “at
least you can stay and make a
fourth for bridge.”

“Oh I ean’t do that,”
the lad,

grunted
“Us Engineers ain’t al
universities.

In the past, these annual games
have produced unlimited action
and thrills. Never have the players allowed their enthusiasm to
lead to foul play and intentional
roughing—to be sure they have
been hard fought games — but
cleanly fought as well.

It is in the stands that the Dalhousie-Acadia rivalry has grown to
unhealthy proportions. Invariably
at half-time, cohorts from each
college have had it out hammer
and tongs in a revolting melee.
Seldom have Dalhousians started
on their way back home without
committing some outrageous deed
which has left a bad taste in the
mouths of Acadians.

the score 5-3.

Dal tried vainly to score but
were unsuccessful as playing time
ran out.

McQuinn and Mackenzie, former
K.C.S. boys, should be congratulated for their hard work and fine
playing, McQuinn on the defensive
and MacKenzie on the offensive.

Lineup: Wade, fulback; Morrow,
Farquhar, Currie, Primrose, threequarters; Smith, MacKenzie, Hart,
halves; Ernst, McQuinn, Winters,
Dunlon,~ Allen, McKeigan, MeCollough, forwards.

 

to make tomorrow’s bid a successful one. Acadia boasts the
strongest team in years so we can
expect Fred Kelley to have a really
powerful squad. At this end too,

lowed to play cards. It’s corruptin’ We have our complaints too— ... are confident that we have a

to the morals.” but let’s forget them. Let’s get winning combination

‘ - behind our Students’ Council and
RED PENCIL Faleon and Haze were dumb : if é s”? NV ee ey ue
COLO > PENCI Seat. She) oy well neeeets Aeadia’s Student. Union, both of Bugs” MacKenzie and Bob Me

TURQUOISE

axa PENCIL

BUY 7 3

FROM YOUR

= SCHOOL SUPPLY DEALER

mit hara-kiri with a Pusser Dirk.
They would choose a fate worse
than death; they would submit to
the tortures of a long line of hapless victims in the chronicles of
the Dal Daze.

No, they would not commit harakiri. They would attend = an
Anguish Two lectures. They would
listen to Professor Chully Beanut
declaim on “The Tsetse Fly as a
Subject for Literary Biography.”

After Any Show

ae

which are making determined efforts to quell such unseemly conduct on the part of the students of
both universities. Use that excess
energy in cheering your teams to
victory—it is evidence enough to
show your team out there that you
are behind it all the way.

After failing to capture the first
contest of the _ Intercollegiate
League, the Tigers are determined

Quinn deserve special mention for
their efforts against Tech. “Bugs”
set up the play for Ernst’s try and
McQuinn made many deadly tackles
which were felt by Tech’s backfield. If these two continue on
their starry ways and the reremainder of the team perform fip
to their known standard we can
rest assured that the Tigers will
demand Acadia’s all-out attempt
for a win,

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

 

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan
in peace: “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, reanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruits.

ae,
opices,

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House

Founded in Halifax in 1841

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.
]

Quality and style to suit the high requirements of the students of Dalhousie will be found

HARD COAL — SOFT COAL
COKE — FUEL OIL

Before Any Meal
| OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT |

nink of « | coe
it Or ae t | * i w
knew pve ete Pee tom RE ern HALIFAX, N. S. D: ee N. S.

hs

at the largest furriers in the east.

  
  

Maritime Furriers Limited

52 Sackville Street, Halifax

 

tet

 

 

   
