  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
    
 
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
 
 
    
  
  
   
     
   
   
   
    
  
   
  
   

 

Firm, 2
AM E+ ‘er

TOL LXEVi |

> Pharos Sales Increase,
— Want Candid Camera
| Fan Contributions Now

b @ PHAROS sales have taken a
huge jump in the first  postChristmas week, and the students
are ordering their Year Book early
so that they may be sure of ob”* taining a hard-covered copy of ’46
_ Pharos. Pharos may be ordered
at the Year Book Office, in the
basement of the Arts Building,
D between 12.00 and 1.00 p.m., Mon} day through Thursday. The Grad| uating students are being asked, if
i. they have not already had their
pictures taken, to attend to this
matter immediately.
The Graduates may have their
portraits taken by any city photographer. The price for the picture
>} igs approximately two dollars. The
graduation gown is supplied by the
‘photographer. Students may leave
their picture at the phctographer’s
«studio to be picked up by the Year
Ny, Book Editors.

. Students’ Book
F Pharos, this year, reports Editor
Bill Pope, is not only going to be
a graduate’s book, but a really
representative college book, in
which it is hoped to include the
/! picture of every student attending
the University. The Undergraduate Section is being expanded and
the material is being organized so
that it will interest and appeal to
i the average student. Some very
‘fine pictures of the college buildings
' have been taken during the past
summer months and many of these
will be included in the Year Book.
- Any amateur camera fans, who
would like to see their best shots
' in publication, are asked to submit
4, some of their pictures to the Year
~ Book. These pictures, if possible,
should show some campus background, should have general ine. terest, and should be clear. The
pictures can be of all sizes, taken
either inside or outside. They can
be action shots, group pictures, individual portraits or campus scenes.

a NOTICE
5 The President and Mrs. Kerr will
be at home to all new students at
© the University tomorrow afternoon
| from 3 to 6 p.m.

L

1

 

 

@ THIS QUESTION was discussed
at the first meeting of the Dal-  housie Citizens’ Forum in 1946,
The forum was unanimous in
agreeing that world government is
not only possible but imperative to
4 the survival of our civilization.

We must create an international
government of a federal nature
_ that will be all powerful in deciding the most vital interests of the
m «= nations of the world; and with a
constitution strong enough to pre~ vent any power from breaking
away from this union in time of
dissension. The present charter of
_ the United Nations Organization,
.» in its very nature, must be acceptRee voluntarily by its ~prospective

is ‘With this we agree. We do not
- believe, however, that a member

OLDEST

74

STUDENT

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 11, 1946

PUBLISHER PRAISES DAL ARTS S

PUBLICATION

No. 10

 

Twenty-eight delegates, representing 18 Canadian
colleges and universities at the recent N. F.C. U.S.
Conference are shown above.

TOP ROW: Dave Jackson, Western; John Hayman,
Western; Len Gertley, Queens; Lloyd Dickie, Acadia;

Lynn Watt, Manitoba;

Eric Bergenstein, Manitoba;
Ed Chisholm, Saint Mary’s; L. Balfour, McGill; Allan
Woolever, Western; Dick Milburn, Mount Allison.

U.N.B.;

MIDDLE ROW: Allan Ainsworth, U.B.C.; Florian
Carriere, Ottawa; W. Orr, Saskatchewan; Ted Owens,
Frank Wallace, Saint Mary’s; Larry Sutherland, Dalhousie; Mike Galvin, Ottawa; Hugh Banfield,
Bishop’s; Garry Miller, U.B.C.; George Dover, Toronto.

FRONT ROW: Dick Harris, Mount Allison; Wm.
MacVean, Bishop’s;
McGill; Ron Helmer, Alberta; Ken Baker, McMaster:

W. Fanjoy, Acadia; Jack Pye,

Fred McGuinness, Manitoba.

 

Debating Trials Set
For Tuesday, Jan. 15

® THE DALHOUSIE Debating
Society renews activities this term
with Debating Trials being held at
the Arts Building, on Tuesday,
January 14 at 12 noon.

The speakers may choose pro or
con of the topic “Resolved That
Control of the Atomic Bomb Should
Be Internationalized”, talking for
three minutes, or they are permitted to choose their own topic
under the same conditions.

Winners will represent Dal in
debates against U.N.B. at Fredricton, St. Dunstan’s at Charlottetown, and Pine Hill at Dalhousie,

ment with the findings of the
world government.
Unity or Destruction
Before the advent of the atomic
bomb we could conceive of a world
continuing in the same manner as
it had for centuries. Now, however, some change must come. This
change will either be in the form
of destruction hitherto inconceivyable, or a peaceful federal union
of the nations of the world.
Surely the latter is the logical
choice of not only the idealists but
of the hard-headed realists. Although a federal union will entail
a sacrifice of sovereignty by all
its constituent members, this is a
small price to pay for security
from war and annihilation.
The atomic bomb has been a
much discussed subject during the
past few months. We have heard

many despair at the use to which

120 Register

® DALHOUSIE received a considerable influx of students in the
post-Christmas enrolment for the
new course which carries on until
July.

Latest reports from the Registrar’s office indicate that the number of new students will exceed 120,
of whom five are ex-service women,
one a civilian, the remainder exservicemen,

This swells the total ex-service

_ enrolment to over 500 out of a total

registration of slightly more than
1350 students.

Drummer wanted for Don Warner’s Collegians. Those interested
may contact Don Warner at the
Law School

 

World Government ?

this new power may be put, but
we have been able to discover at
least one bright spot on the horizon. It is possible that the fear
of this new weapon will drive the
nations of the world into a federal
union,
For World Federation

It was the fear of annexation
by the United States that drove
the Canadian Colonies into federation, and it is to be hoped that
fear of the atomic bomb will force
the nations of the world into a
federal union of states.

We hope that federal union will
not be thought an impracticable
and idealistic dream. To us the
idea is sound both from the economie and political point of view
and is necessary to the survival of
our civilization. We, of the Dalhousie Citizens’ Forum, cast our
vote for union now.

N. F.C. U.S. Meeting
In Montreal; Exchange

Scholarships Available

@® NEXT COLLEGE year will see
a greatly increased number of students taking advantage of the Exchange Scholarships plan, whereby
all-round students, in their junior
year, carry on studies at a University in another part.of Canada
from their own. Tuition fees are
cancelled by the host University,
provided the student agrees to return and finish his course at his
home University.

Decision to enlarge the scope of
the plan, to its prewar extent, was
reached at the meeting of the National Federation of Canadian University Students, held at McGill
University on Dec. 27, 28,
Originally conceived and put into
operation by the N.F.C.U.S., the

OQ

_plan is designed to give Canadian

students a truly national outlook,
as well as to assist in bringing the
universities closer together.

Conference Successful

First full-scale meeting of the
execulive of the Federation, since
war necessitated curtailment of its
activities, the Conference was
notably successful. The Dal representatives, Larry Sutherland and
Bill Mingo, felt that much was
gained by the exchange of ideas
which took place at McGill, and
that this alone made the three-day
session worthwhile.

Among the topics of particular
interest to Dalhousie which were
diseussed, and on which action will
be taken, might be listed: A National Health Insurance Plan for
students, Student Employment Services, Student .Co-ops., Student

(Continued on page 2)

=

* bs

ARTS & SCIENCE SUPPLEMENT

TANDARD

* ™

Says ‘Outside Influences’
imperil Liberal Education

Scores Inadequate High School Preparation

by JAMES C. McLAREN

© “DALHOUSIRE’S steadfast refusal to accept financial aid
from any form of outside influence has enabled it to preserve

a strong tradition of liberal education.”

This was the opinion

of C. E. Henderson, Toronto publisher of university texts,
when interviewed recently on the Ocean Limited, during the
last lap of his 18th annual tour of Canadian universities.
“Even when a university receives direct funds from the
sovernment, it must eventually cater to the demands of the

taxpayer,’ Mr. Henderson

explained.

“Industry and its

financial interests have already asserted an influence on many
institutions on this.continent, leading; in almost every case,
to a disintegration of educational standards.”

True Concept of a University

Mr. Henderson maintained that a
university should exist, not as a
training ground for the technical
skills and professions, but rather
as an educating medium dedicated
to turn out young men and women
eapable of sustained thought and
analysis. “The Liberal Arts are
being snubbed because they appear
to deal with intangibles—just as
religion, as expressed in the
losing ground, The
material influence of technical
skills is beingz felt, and liberal
being forced to make
direction to
applied in
} mnis we
Cnurcenes,

education is
concessions in every
meet the demands of
struction.”

He said there was an insufficient
gap between the standards of highschool universities, because
“the lower grades failed to
level for
scholarship, and _ the
are not leaving
(Continued on page 2)

and
have

¥ lia : . ] ior} a }
produce a high enough
university

better students

 

Exam Results “ood
® RESULTS OF THE Christmas

~xamina‘ions at Delhousie
iy od ith moderate optimism by

the registrar, Professor Bennet.

were

Compared ith oth>~ venr-, tre
“ume of failures, in p~onorticn
to the registration, was slightly
lower,

The chief reason for this pleasant
aspect was the performance of the
ex-service personnel. They
better than
their general averages bein hi
then that of
They garnered a high percentage
of firsts as well and their percentage of failures was low.

had a
average record with

or 15 ear

There were very few ex-service
personnel among the bad failures
and disciplinary action against
these bad failures was slight, (in
fact there have been very few departures, voluntary or compulsory.)

 

Student Veterans Confer
At Montreal, Favor Increase in Govt. Grant

@® SIXTY delegates, representing 15,000 veterans attending
Universities and Vocational Training Schools across Canada,
met in Montreal, on December 27, 28 and 29, to discuss the
problems confronting the veterans who are attending universities under the Government’s rehabilitation program.

Since the bulk of the business of
the Conference was concerned with
the three major problems confrontUniversity Veterans, namely
and educational
facilities, the meeting was divided
into a Steering Committe and three
panels, each of the panels to discuss one of the major problems and
prepare a brief, based on the facts,
experiences and opinions of the
delegates from the various universities represented.

The of the Steering
Committee was to arrange the
meetings of the panels, plenary sessions of the whole conference, when
panel findings would be discussed,
and approved or rejected, publicity,
and any general business concerned
with the Conference.

Ing

. TTC 4 "
housing, finance

business

Panel Findings

On the final days of the Conference, briefs containing the findings,
proposals and recommendations of
the panels were presented to a
plenary session of the Conference
and, after some discussion and
minor changes, were approved.

Highlighting the findings of the
Finance panel was the decision to
ask the government to increase the
monthly maintenance grants by $20
for single, and $40 for married
students. The Conference recognized the generosity of the educational scheme, but considered that

the ideal could be achieved at
relatively small additional cost.
Mr. T. Struthers, 2nd Vice-Presi
dent of the Dominion Command of
the Canadian Legion, speaking on
the subject, deseribed the educational program as being “so close
.2¥entinued on page 2)
2 ,

 

D. G. A.C. Activities
Outlined, Ambitious
Program For 1946

® THIS TERM plans for basketball include the entrance of Dal’s
second and third teams in the city
league and Dal’s first team in the
intercollegiate league. Last term
there was interclass competition in
basketball and the Juniors were the
victors.

Plans are to have interclass
competition in badminton, pingpong, archery and volley ball. A
team is entered in the city badminton tournament and the main event
will be the student tournament at
the end of the year. It is hoped
that Dal will be able to enter
swimming team at the Acadia Meet
this year,

Those interested in archery will
be able to try their skill in matches
against Peregrine and Stad.

er cnt een a ei eS

NOTICE
Music Appreciation Group meet
on Wednesday, Jan. 16 at 7.30 p.m.,
in the Engineering Coomon Room.
The Programme includes: 1 Musical Leningrad; 2 Faust Act 1; 3
Toscanini conducting the Verdi
“Hymn of the Nations”; 4 The

Symphony Orchestra.

atlanta pee ie lok vot
SATURDAY NIGHT DANCES
RESUME JANUARY 12
Beginning this week, dances will
be held in the Common Room of
the Men’s Residence every Saturday night, from 9-12, Music will
be furnished by Nickelodian.

 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

Oldest Student Publication
devoted to the interests of the student body.

  

ee hag Mote
t ducati on
» principal task of the university is
culture which makes existence more
‘ig contended, a little more attenealities also is usefyl.
_- __Hfalifax Herald, Dec. 20, 1945.

1 | rk above typifies the attitude of

hat is generally described as a libtion. ‘The insertion of the phrase
tended” suggests that the author
He real conception of the term ‘culture’
yen less of the function attributed to it
e making more worthwhile of our existNor is this attitude reflected only in
s, It achieves glaring expression 1n
schools, where the standard in most
: subjects is of a caliber so poor as to
Jer on the pathetic, and in our colleges,
ve from year to year is growing strikingly
Wier the number of graduates who can
of any genuine acquaintance with a
of study not specifically designed to
form them from potential human beings
some common ‘practical’ cogs for the vast

ines of modern society.

=

la
=

We take pride in tracing the expansion of
‘our educational system during the past cen- eA iries, complacent of the progress we can
show, wien all the while it is not so much our
"educational system as our process for manu
facturing: skilled technicians that we have

- __ been developing. We pay lip service to culture,
__ pretending to appreciate its worth, whereas
very few of us understand its nature. And

ees

why should we—who have neither time, money
’ a 4 ot guarantee immediate, tangible utility to
asi.

nor incentive to cast away on study that does
the community, and, consequentuy, a lucrative
return to the student?

a es Le ca *

ession, and how seldom have we an idea
_merits the effort! Even the information
our advanced specialists have devised an
ious instrument able to destroy in a
aent the civilized structure which’ has
m centuries to build fails to promote
mest ourselves universal movement to
prehend the forces revolving within this
ructure with a view of avoiding the fatal

majority of the community ~

wretched are our attempts at self-.

 

ee re Se aPeeR EN Ne WN Coe ee
et <4 ;* Sg oe Pele
1 ee he a Bg Paes 1 SEONG
oe ee: See | ey Le fy " aay 1h
W '" eae” ete,” 2 ey
r bh ; r ‘ee
to :
‘s

 

 

vf f : Editor .......+++e+++ Bill Mingo

ager ..Bob McCleave
Associate editors:
RaW eS iSeee

A s . Busin ess Manag

.. Blair Dunlop

Don Harris
Sports ........ Alec Farquhar
Features .......... .Al Lomas
Literary ..345..3 Morton Norman

Photography ... Don Morrison:
Cartoons—Bob Tuck.
Circulation—Nita Sideris

Mary Farquhar

Though a knowledge of the causes of depressions and wars does not by any means
place these phenomena under our control, it
is only after we have learned something of

the rules, the risks, and the mistakes of our

forerunners that we even get into the game,
let alone possess a chance of winning. As the
product of current education we would think
the world perfect if once we had financial and
social security; and hence we blindly scratch
about, collectively and individually, for some
nice, comfortable. niche, appealing to our
special tastes, in the grand mechanism, apparently oblivious of the record of its performance during the last twenty years, and
too. stunned by habit and up-bringing to
realize that there yet exist no good reasons
why it will not happen again—and on a scale
that will blast the torch of culture and human
achievement far from our eager cluch, eventually, perhaps, dropping it among the more
primitive tribes of darkest Africa for further
tendance.. Well off, indeed, will be then the
trained accountant or learned justice now
scrambling so assiduously for ascendancy, each
in his particular field. a
But the merits of such an education are
not confined to limits so narrow and truly
practical. The very word ‘liberal’ implies that
the knowledge acquired during the experience
is a pleasure to the intellect, thus constituting
an end in itself; and there lies the distinction
between it and ‘more useful’ types of instruction: the latter have no value of their own,
and regardless of how attractive they may
seem,
means to an end. For the individual personally, the perusal of the story of his predecessors, what they thought and did, how well
they fared, and so forth, tends to round out
his own character and personality. in that
it broadens his general view towards life, deVelops his special talent and abilities, expands
and raises his standards of taste, and, most
important cf all, constructs for him a standard of values to indicate the solid ground
along his way. He has then some equipment
for making the most of his life, and, able to
see the forest for the trees, retains some
human qualities in the struggle that now endeavours .to transform him into a mere me
are actually nothing more than a-_

  
   
  
 
  
   

xplosion.

udent Veterans—
{Continued from page 1)
, bei ig successful as to be tanEo 99

a, Housing Panel
‘The Housing panel found that
housing was a very serious national problem. with local variations, and that the necessity of
having to search for accommodations, to pay high rentals, or to be
separated from a wife and family,
1 was having a detrimental effect
upon the studies of student vet-erans. To alleviate the present
nditions and, with an eye to the
e, it was recommended that
overnment initiate both imme_ diate emergency measures and a
_. long term policy. As immediate
se emergency” measures, it recom-- - mended that all possible govern menit-owned buildings such as serarracks, hostels, etc., be
1 and used as living accom
bc

" : Ra

setigS 3,

on of more materials and
Under the long term policy,
recommended that a low
ouse building pro
ty as to

Lt oie ab

aaa

i
1%

chanical part.

dent veterans was held and it was
decided that there was a need for
such an organization, and that one
should be formed. As a first step
towards its formation, a National
Council of seven members was
elected to meet early in 1946 and
present the findings of the first
National Conference of Student
Veterans to the House of Commons, and then to lay the groundwork for a “National Conference of
Student Veterans.” Alec Hart,
President of Dal Ex-service Club is
the Maritime Representative on the
Council,

Observers Present

Present at the Conference as observers, but lending their assistance
and advice whenever needed were:
Major-General Burns, DirectorGeneral of Rehabilitation, D.V.A.,
Brig. Milton Gregg, V.C., President
of U.N.B., who represented the
President of the Canadian Legion
and Mr. Hertzog, Secretary of
Canadian Legion. Major General
Burns, speaking on behalf of the
D.V.A., expressed the desire of his
department to hear the views and
proposals of the student veterans,
and promised that any proposals
or recommendations, made by them,
would be given the fullest consideration by the Department of

~ Veteran’s Affairs.

Mr. Hertzog, from his experience as Secretary of the Canadian
Legion, was able to give valuable
assistance to the Conference in the

formation and presentation of its
resolutions.

He expressed to the
Veterans of Canada the

~

e of the Canadian Legion to

- co-aperate with h, and lend ‘assist
nee to, any National body of Stu
WLS a. ike

'  Engineer’s Common Room. ;

all the help and assistance that the
Canadian Legion could give them.

Present at the Conference as
delegates from Dalhousie Student
Veterans Association were Mr.
Alex Hart, Mr. Doug. Voiles and
Mr. T. A. Giles.

 

Publisher Praises—
(Continued from page 1)
high-school properly equipped for
the demands of higher education.”
Philosophy of Education

He argued that the modern philosophy of education had reached a
ridiculous extreme with the idea
“that a subject must be presented
so as to produce the minimum of
effort and pain for the student. As
a result, he said. “the fundamental
need for logical] thought processes
and intellectual reasoning” is being
hopelessly neglected through every
stage of education—from primary
school to university.

Mr. Henderson feels, however,
that Canadians in general are becoming conscious that our approach
to world problems is in need of
@lrastic revision and that we are
rediscovering the need for a coimnmon understanding of common
problems, based on’logic and intelligence. “We are coming to
realize our debt to the historic
processes which are only preserved
and developed in the Liberal Arts.
A renaissance in liberal education
will come with the realization that
there alone stands the salvation of
our age and generation.”

, NOTICE

Mr. Appleby of the CBC will
speak at a special meeting of the
Dramatic Society, tomorrow, Saturday, Jan, 12, 2.30 p.m. in the

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Western University Is
Host To Canadian U.
Press Annual Parley

@® STAFF MEMBERS of the University of Western Ontario Gazette
were official hosts for the annual
National Canadian University
Press Conference, held at London,
Ontario, December 21, 22 and 23.
For the’ first time all the member
papers of the CUP were represened. Alex Farquhar, Sports Editor
of the Dalhousie Gazette, was the
delegate from Dalhousie.

Highlight was the presentation
of the Bracken Award to the McGill
Daily.

National Wire Service

Plans were devised for a nationwide wire service through which
university news may be transmitted speedily and efficiently from
one university to another. Headquarters were set up in Winnipeg,
Toronto and Montreal to service
western, central and eastern regions respectively. News from
each university is to be telegraphed to regional headquarters’ where
it will be edited and distributed to
the university papers across
Canada. This system will benefit
the larger papers who publish daily
and can run more CUP material.
However, on matters of intense
interest all member papers have
the advantage of getting the news
first hand from sister universities.

Elections were held for the Offices of National Presidency and
Vice-Presidency of CUP and, as a
result, The UBYSSEY takes over
the Presidency and McGill Daily
the Vice-Presidency, for the years
1946-47,

A CUP Institute of Publie Opinion was devised authorizing the
QUEEN’S JOURNAL to conduct
nation-wide polls on matters of
student interest.

Glee Club Program
Includes Concert, l-act

Plays, 3-act Comedy

® PLANS FOR the second term
were finalized at a very successful
and enjoyable luncheon meeting of
the Dal Glee and Dramatic Society
last Tuesday. The following items
of business were discussed:

1. Entries have been received

for the Connolly Shield One-Act
Play contest. The plays will be
stared on two evenings: Thursday
and Friday, January 24, 25. Don
Warner and. the Dalhousians_ will
be in attendance.
' 2. A very choice program, which
includes Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2, has been selected for
the concert Monday, January 28 at
8.30 p.m.

3. “You Can’t Take It With
You” has been chosen to be the
modern 38-Act Play to be staged
on February 22, 23. The play will

 

again be under the direction of Mr. ©

Leslie Pigot.

4. Deadline for Munro Day Show
Scripts has been set for Thursday,
January 17 at 9 p.m,

5. More tenors, bases, and altos,
are urgentnly needed in the chorus.
Rehearsals will be held regularly
twice a week, Thursday, 8.30 p.m.,
Upper Gym, and Sunday 3 p.m.,
Lower Gym.

6. The executive wants 5 volunteers to supplement the staff. The
work to be done is chiefly secretarial and administrative and does
not consume very much time.

N. F. C. U. S. Meeting—
(Continued from page 1)
transportation rates, and student

government.

Seventeen universities across
Canada are at present members of
the N.F.C.U.S. To carry on the
activities of the Federation, a
permanent secretary-treasurer was
appointed, and a president and
four regional vice-presidents were
elected. The latter officers are expected to conduct regional conferences next fall to discuss problems
peculiar to each region. Bill Mingo
of Dalhousie was elected VicePresident for the Maritimes.

The University has requested
that students observe strictly the

 

NO SMOKING RULE in the Arts ©

 

  
    
 
   
     
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

Bank on a Sweet Cap

for satisfaction—anywhere ... anytime!

And when you tune in

“LIGHT UP AND LISTEN” WITH

SWEET CAPORAL

CIGARETTES

       

station C.H.N.S.

30 p. m.
EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT

  

It’s amazing how the smoking of a Sweet Cap.. gives
pleasure to the task and
makes those study hours fly.

val

GAUVIN & GENTZELL | 
PHOTOGRAPHERS

90 Spring Garden Road

 

 

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
2

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

Corsages
~ A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE,

speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

  

NURSERIES Limited...
361 earrincton sT- HALIFAX

 

 

353-6992

 

“Birks Challenger
Watch Time”

Many times you have heard
these words over the radio.

Aren’t you a little curious
to see a Challenger? This is
not an invitation, its a dare to
come in and resist one.

Henry Birks and Sons .
Limited .

Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax

 

 
   
   

Four Year ‘Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern

. Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.

  

  

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75 each for Nova Scotia students.
To Students with Engigeering Diplomas:
Modern Equipment, Instructional Staff with Individual Experience.

 
 

Write or Call for Calendar of Advice to
’ F. H. SEXTON, President

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Languages and History.
Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration
Many valuable scholarships, on

entrance and through the
courses, |

 

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

 

in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year

 

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women. ©
Carefully supervised residential

 

        
 
     
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
       

 

  
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
   
 
  
    
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
 
     
    
  
 
   
    
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
    
 
   
    
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
 

< i
pees * SRE ty
a F

PR aes ~ CONNIE ARCHIBALD. —t{ don’t know why I came
bc ert ‘Dal in preference to other universities other than
that T seemed to have been brought up with the idea
; that Dal was “the only” place, it having the highest
i ts standard of the Maritime universities. And so here
ee came—prejudiced before I even registered.

a

i ‘thought I'd get out of Dal was my science degree.
a had heard of “extra-curricular activities and their
value”, but never realized the important role they
play in college life. I had high ambitions scholasti: cally, but these soon dwindled when I was plunged
into basketball, badminton, year-book work, ete., my
«first year.
¥o) BOED: out of an is ener eens on committees,

eae ee fesse: in teen eyed most of my classes, and have ‘gotten a
great deal from them, . seience classes particularly.

Yes, it I had my life to live over I would ‘come back again.

m4

 

“ x exams. The. 3 was given A Ditty to
_ go if I wished and I began to think about the benefits
i of a college education. I came to the conclusion
iN; that theywere many and varied and so decided to
i _ give it a try.

fi “o> 3 em) amore: interested in Science subjects ‘inn
Fe a Arts subjects, and that’s why I chose to take a
iB. Se. course. Along with my studies I am interested
- _ in sports and find that there are more sports offered
5 se: than there is time to take part in them.

a Now that my education is nearing “its end at
_ Dalhousie I realized that an education is only a
it if, small part of what you learn at college. ‘lf I had it to do over again I

te would make the same choice.

 

 

BILL POPE.—One finds anywhere, I imagine, what
one seeks with sufficient diligence. I do not find all
classes equally valuable, and yet I think I am profiting by taking the Arts Course. It has given me a
wider perspective. It has trained me to tackle problems more intelligently. It has taught me to think
for myself and to have more confidence in my own
opinions. It has given me a chance to experiment
with different subjects and to find my own natural
aptitudes and abilities, which when I graduate may
be move closely pursued and more fully developed.
My mind, to some extent, has become matured, and
my imagination, especially through the study of
history, has increased.

There are_some Beaten not given in the Arts Course that I think

. ee the great game of life, such as, Public Speaking and also my favorite
subject, creative writing. I have taken some courses not greatly
F ‘ profitable to me except for the personal philosophy and the living personality of the Professor, and I would feel poorer not to have taken
- these subjects,

Par. On the whole, I am glad to be at Dalhousie taking the Arts Course.
In future years I will probably look back on this course as one of the
_ -happiest and most developing periods of my life.

 

- ALEC P, STEWART.—1I have enjoyed the past three
'  -years: at Dalhousie. On entering, the Bachelor of
_ Science course seemed the answer to much I wanted
to know. Now, I have learned a few answers only
- to find many more questions cropping up. The
lectures and classes have been so interesting that
time has seemed all too short.
The reason I have studied Science is, I suppose,
-  beeause it has always appealed to me. However, I
| am beginning to feel that English and other arts
' ¢lasses are very interesting even if, or perhaps because, they seem to me more difficult than science.
I would have enjoyed additional arts classes as well
as others in science,
The most encouraging feature of the class work here has been the
__ interest in student as well as in subject shown by the professors... They
often made subjects interesting ipa improperly handled, might have
‘been quite dull.
we Yes . +. I would do it all over again; in the next few years I hope
ee find post-graduate classes as enjoyable as the work at Dalhousie
een been.

 

MARY MACDONALD.—I registered at Dal in the
fall of ’48 in the faculty of Arts and Science with
the intention of taking just one year at university

and marking time so to speak. Since I was going to
mark time f figured it might as well be at the best
Maritime university, thus Dalhousie. By the end
of my first week I was writing Arts °46 after my
name, An Arts degree was inevitable because I
/ fear I would be too old to go much beyond the
portals of Dalhousie if I made a B.Sc. my goal. It
took me about a month to realize that a B.A. was
“merely a stepping-stone to something higher which in
my case I hope will be Social Service. I’m leaving
; _my Alma Mater a Dalhousian who is convinced that

- s I hey wes ats and the classes I have attended, have
inker than I was on entering. No doubt I

» residence | life and extra-curricular activi- —

 

hee’

   
  
 
 
   
   
   

I can say that practically the only thing I.

-evolved down through the

which couldn’t be ¢ eae at elsewhere.

fc ARTS AND SCIENCE SUPPLEMENT

FACULTY SUPPLEMENT NO. 1

 

Arts and Scienc

Page Three

  

 

No. 1

January 11, 1946

 

STUDLEY BALL IN GYM TONIGHI

 

Dean Sends...

. Message

@ PRESIDENT LOWELL once remarked on the great numbers of
students who came to college in the
hope of obtaining a B.A. and avoid
ing an education. Few things are
easier. There are scores of students at Dalhousie who practise
this philosophy. A book is recommended, its greatness is stressed,
but unless the recommendation is
accompanied by an assurance that
a knowledge of the book will be
needed to pass some examination
the chances that it will be read are
small indeed.

What I wish to say is that all
the university offers is an opportunity. Nothing more. The most
valuable things are intangible; they
cannot be measured or weighed.
This is particularly true of what
the Arts faculty offers and explains why there is such an extraordinary difference of opinion as to
the value of its Arts degree.

My wish for you is very simple.
May you be one of those who consider your degree (or rather the
things for which the degree stands)
as your most valuable possession.

GEORGE E. WILSON,
Dean of Arts & Science.

Originally Founded As
Debating Club, Society

Now Enters 84th Year

@ IN 1864 A LITTLE group was
founded at Dalhousie from which
years,
our present Arts and Science Scciety. Then it was known as the
Dalhousie Debating Society, and,
quite naturally, debating was its
principal activity. Its members
used to meet weekly, according to
reports of them.in old issues of The
Gazette, its discussions covered a
wide field, and were extremely
popular.

“The closing lecture before the
Dalhousie College Debating Society
was delivered on Friday evening
last, by Dr. Lawson. The subject
was Air, and it was treated in that
able manner which pre-eminently
characterizes Dr. L. We are sorry
that we have no space to give an
extended report; suffice it to say
that the Hall was crowded—that
the audience was most interested
and pleased—and the experiments,
ably performed by Messrs. Abbinett and Lindsay, were very brilliant.” (Dal Gazette, April 5, 1865).

It is remarkable to observe how

the status of women students on
the campus has risen since that
time. For the first six years none
of the female species were per
ve mitted to Bitend any. meetings of

 

co a

a *

First Dance of Term To
Feature Don Lowe’s Band

ate

_

-Partners:

Se ~~
% DY

Phil Raymond, Al Lomas, Bob White, Bob Roome.

Assisted by: Jo Robertson, Bill Mingo, Nancy Wilsen.

Object:
half of Arts and Science.

revi,

Lneory :

To entertain Dal faculty, students, and friends on be
When good music and good company are mixed under

favorable conditions, a good time results.

Apparatus: 1.
2. Dal gym.
3. (a) females;

—

4. Refreshments.

va

~~

(b) males—(a greater

. soft lights and.suitable de

Don Low’s orchestra.

than b)

corations.

Method: Open gym doors at 8.45 p.m. on Friday, January 11th,
admit all persons bearing yellow tickets with appropriate
black engraving. Supply sweet music and refreshments.
Conceal chaperons in comfortable surroundings with an

adequate supply cf chocolates.

Observe reactions and

record data for three hours.

Data and Summary: This information may be found in next
week’s edition of The Gazette.

 

Over Half of Dal Students
Enrolled in Arts&Science

® IT TOOK A second world conflict to create a new record in
enrollments in Dalhousie University, for never before has the

registration gone over the 1000- ‘mark.

Only once in the

history of the university has the number of students increased

as noticeably—and that was after the First World

W ar

Professor C, L. Bennet noted these facts in reviewing the enrollment in the faculty of Arts and Science during “the year

1945-46.

 

Society Boasts...

ARTS

MHuUcOLlr>s

 

SCIENCE
.New Pin

® THIS YEAR, for the first time
on record, the faculty of Arts and
Science will have a distinctive pin
as their faculty emblem. [In previous years members of this
faculty, lacking their own pin, resorted to the use of an old English
gold ‘D’ about half an inch high
to represent them as members of
the ‘forgotten faculty’ of the
campus. This year, however, all
that will be changed, and before
the end of the month, Arts and
Sciencemen (and women) will strut
forth, their lapels (or sweaters)
resplendant with the pin which
will instil them with pride in belonging to the faculty with the
most distinetive emblem on _ the
ecarapus. This changing of brands
will be the effect of a pin which
has been designed by the combined

efforts of the A & S society execu‘ Be as oe Sic ames fi

ip they & go on ane.

And now for a few statistics.
Results which emerged from the
eonfusion of registration week last
September show a total ‘of 1151
students. Over fifty per cent of
this total are enrolled in the Arts
and Science classes—673 students.
Ex-servicemen enrolled in Arts and
Science number 291, including eight
discharged servicewomen.

Not All Due To Discharges

The Registrar’s statistics revealed that not all of the large increase
has been due to enrollment of men
discharged from the armed forces.
Even if the 885 veterans who entered the portals of higher learning
had turned their footsteps elsewhere the registration would still
have risen above former years. The
registration has risen steadily
since 1943,

And now the second term is well
under way. But the registration
for special January to July classes
continues. Already over one hundred have registered, almost entirely ex-service personnel,

 

copies are already on the way.
The new pin was designed to
combine both the idea of Dalhousie
and of the Faculty of Arts and
Science. Roughly 7/16 of an inch
in height, it consists of a small
Gothie ‘D’ in Gold, upon which are
superimposed, in relief, the words,
“Dalhousie — Arts and Science”.
The centre of the ‘D’ is finished
in black enamel, and upon this has
been placed a small Gold Unieorn’s
Head, the symbol of Dalhousie in
“Ora et Labora” crest. The
pin, ordered in the Fall, has been
promised by the end of January,
and as only 800 were ordered to
fill the needs of over 500 A. & S.
men those desiring them had better
have their 90 cents ready when

    
   

 

President ...

 

7 of
', Reports
@® THIS YEAR the Arts and

Seience faculty has had its numbers increased proportionally more
than any other faculty on our
campus. The increased enrollment
should give and has given an impetus to the Arts and Science Society and the activities fostered
by: it.

Early in the term the students
noted with interest and enthusiasm
a significant event in the appointment of Dr. G. E. Wilson as dean
of the faculty. At a meeting in
October, the Society added a debating manager to its executive,
and altered the membership clause
in its constitution. Membership in
the society now requires that a
student be registered for classes in
the Arts and Science faculty and
not a member of any other faculty
society.

In interfaculty sports the Arts
and Science teams are giving a
goed account of themselves although at times the cheering
sections are found lacking, Interfaculty debating has also been
favourable for the society’s argumentative defenders and we are
hoping for a good term for all the
Arts & Science competitive teams.
In the next few years the new Arts
and Science pin should become a
badge of distinction.

JO ROBERTSON,
President,
Arts & Science Society.

Debative Teams Ye
Undefeated In Bennett
Shield Competition

@ THOUGH representatives of the
Arts and Science Society have
tried, usually vainly, in various

fields of endeavour in Interfaculty
competition, they seem to have met

with the most success in the Inter
faculty Debating League. Three
teams of three persons each are
entered in the league and each
team has been victorious in its only
debate.

The first team consisting of
Harry Rhude, Jack Harris and Hal
Thompson started the ball rolling
with a victory over the Commerce
lads. Then the smooth-talking trio
of Brent Gibson, Jim Saunders and
Gerry MacKay gabbled its way to
a win over the eloquent Engineers.
And then just to uphold tradition
the third team, led by loquacious
Don Harris with the somewhat
silent support of his confreres
Mingo and Farquhar, pulled a surprise win over three of our most
promising mouth-pieces from the
Law School.

ae on mene *)

Si eelise bits bees
 

 

IDoMGll Over gain?

GORDON HART.—The process of life is a continuous affair and while we fluctuate through periods
of physical and mental activity its meaning is
generally subordinated to the outward satisfaction
of the long chain of moving events which fill our
| days and occupy our minds. Once in a while this
zhain is severed and we are called upon to justify
our position and our actions, not merely to the satism® ~~ § faction of others, but inwardly to ourselves in order
} to restore our mental harmony.

If a student enters college in the faculty of
Arts and Science and takes a general course the
first year touching all branches of learning, he has
a a chance to discover his own true interests and year
by year to narrow them down in the process of specialization. During
‘this process the student is becoming older and gaining a greater fund
_ of knowledge from which to draw material for decisions as to later
specialization. Each course he selects broadens his orbit of knowledge
as a whole rather than merely delving more deeply into a single branch
of the social or physical sciences.

- During this period the student is continually developing his character
_by coming into contact with the great events and men of the past with
his fellow students at present, and increasing his powers of forseeability
in the future. Vital questions which remained undecided before gradually
take answerable form in his mind and as the process continues he begins
to discover a few of what you might call true values in life and weed out,
or stablize his everchanging philosophy of life. He should develop an
open mind with the ability to attack any problem and give a clear judgment and he should gain a knowledge of human nature that will be of
insurmountable assistance to him in life. Once the strong foundation is
laid then comes the time to specialize.

One great advantage of university, common to all facuities is the
share we have in developing our sense of organization. Once you have
selected your course you must organize your activities with allotted time
to three main groups, mental, social and physical. No one can teach you
this. It is up-to you to develop this ability and once attained it is of the
utmost safisfaction.

| “Would I do it again?” The answer is still yes, and I hope I have
shown you why. I consider my course in the faculty of Arts and Science
to have been more than worthwhile for the reasons stated above, not
to forget the many friends I have made, nor to neglect the benefits I
have derived from the mistakes I have made, and lastly because I have
discovered how little I know of the world about me and how much more
“I must grasp before I can call myself a true Artsman.

   
    
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

 

JiM MceLAREN.—I decided on an Arts course as I
had no particular future voeation in mind at the —
time and considered a “general education” as the —
most sensible and profitable way of bridging the
gap between teen-age and the early twenties.

But it is only in retrospect that we can fully
anpreciate the value of our experience in the
“liberal arts”. With most of us, I think, our general
nersnective has been broadened; our sense of values
has been sharpened and matured, and “education for
its own sake” has come to mean something tangible
in our lives. :

It is impossible to jump from an Arts course
at university to the security of Easy Street. We
have acquired an education, nct a training. But it is nevertheless an
education which, because of its “universality”, serves as a firm foundation for every possible field of endeavour.

When Newman spoke of a complete university education as one
which could produce “men of culture —capable of growth’, it was not
just idle talk. Such is the need of our world today. By becoming virtual
slayes of material self-interest, men and nations have seen two world
wars in one eeneration. Unfortunately, our civilization has not produced
“men of culture—capable of growth.” Instead, men—technically trained
for machine-shop, factory and laboratory—have been turned out in mass
production... Liberal education has been snubbed as an intangible and
impractical force.

But where else but in the Liberal Arts can we acquire the intellectual
reasoning and unbiased perspective by which alone order can be brought
out of chaes, and world problems approached logically and intelligently ?

 

  

has provided a very worthwhile experience. If it were possible, I would
readily turn back the clock and relive these past years fromthe very
beginning.

Femmes of Arts and
Science Active In
Campus Athletics

® BECAUSE ALMOST ALL the
girls at Dalhousie are registered
in the faculty of Arts and Science,
it is natural that an Arts and
Science supplement contain a
_ resume of girls’ sports in general.

At the moment feminine athletes
are centering their attention on the
basketball. Syb Pentz promises an
even better defensive game than
last year but Lois Rattee’s sprained ankle has deprived the team of
a formidable guard. Patsy Jones
is back with the shooting section
_ while the freshette class has pre__ -Sented some valuable forward material such as Sheila Currie, Jessie
Sherman and Fran Doane. The
first team is entered in the intercollegiate series while the second
team has a full schedule in a city

: league. .

Debating eek

(Continued from page 3)

So with the first half of the year
past we find the faculty of Arts
and Science at the top of the heap
in the league standing. Last year
our teams just missed copping the
R. B. Bennett trophy by inches
and this year aren’t going to
make any mistakes about it.
Things might even brighten up
more so if a few of our 500-strong
members would take a minute or
so off at eighty-thirty on Tuesday
evenings to listen to your representatives give forth with sweet
phrases and eloquent utterances.—
You'll find it interesting.

 

November on snow-bordered tennis
courts, Margie MacPherson copped
the Dal Ladies’ singles championship for the third time in her tennis
career and in the ping pong tournament, she also walked away with
the highest honors. Badminton has

- probably the largest number of
hel MacPherson Wins _ enthusiastic followers. The top
__ Looking back over the past term, notchers, headed by the perennial
i we note that the ground hockey . champion, Virginia Phillips, are

2 ee eee bee eet oe ee

 

For all these and many other reasons, my arts course at university.

___ team under the capable manage- looking forward to a full season of
. ent of Nanc y Wilson held its own competitive play. Archery and
‘the’ season. Late in swimming, still a bit novel in girls’

Sel aS 1 Le ‘ : / ‘ =

 

 

Arts and Science Hoopsters became the first team to bring the Law
School Six to their knees in the 1945-46 league games, Above is a successful Arts and Science attempt by Bill Pope, with Gordie Hart, Ralph
Blakeney and Alex Hickman hovering near.

 

Arts & Sci. Enter Strong
Squads In Interfac Loops

@® LOOKING BACK over the last two months one cannot help
but notice the increased interest that has been shown and

proven in Interfaculty sport.

For a year destined to be one in
which all and not one would have a
chance to prove his ability, to
demonstrate qualities of sportsmanship and to display hopeful aspirations, the Arts and Science Society
has endeavoured to lend its wholehearted support to Sports circles.

In the first instance our faculty
football team, though victorious but
once in the season’s schedule,
showed in its persistent attitude
that the boys were in it for the
game itself. Such an attitude was
encouragement enough and_ succeeded in creating a satisfaction
evident. in its own worth. Our
thanks go to Bugs MacKenzie for
managing the team and to all the
players who gave their assistance.

Indoor Softball Popular

With the addition of indoor softball to Interfaculty Sport it was
found at first that campus opinion
ridiculed the proposal. However,
teams were organized including one
from the Arts and Science Society
under the management of Norm
Fergusson. The competitive spirit
shown has furthered the popularity

Originally Founded -
(Continued from page 3)
was: “Resolved that a Female
Seminary at Dalhousie would be
advisable.” The negative side won
by a six-sevenths majority. O tempora! O mores! Could they but see
their college now!

Active To War Years

Infused, perhaps, with the spirit
of Tennyson’s brook, the Society
continued to be very active, despite
perpetual changes in its membership up to the years immediately
preceding the first World War. In
1912 a new constitution was granted the Students’ Council, calling for
a council member for every twentyfive students, these members to be
nominated by the various faculty
societies. —

Doing the best they could with
what they had, the Council authorized the old debating club to nominate eight council members. The
word ‘Debating’ was dropped from
its title, and it became strictly the
Arts & Science Society.

 

sports at Dal, are going on apace.
Since the girls cannot play interfaculty games they are planning
interclass competitions in every
branch of athletic activity.

dae ee

of the game and interest has been
aroused. With one loss and one
win the prospects for future games
of the Arts and Science team are
indeed good. To those who have
made it a suecess the Society’s appreciation is extended.

So far the Arts and Science Society basketball team under the
guidance of Art Robinson has made
a good showing with two wins and
a like number of losses. The calibre of the team has lived up to
expectations and favourable anticipations are held for future competition. Credit is certainly due
to those who have succeeded in
premoting the progress of the Arts
and Science team. High hopes are
held for suecess in the Interfaculty
league which is soon to commence.

Taken jointly, the Arts and
Science Society looks forward to a
good year with confidence in the
teams.it has placed in competition.
With an eye to the game, the traditions upheld meet with success, but
with an eye solely to the result,
the circumstances cannot be predicted. With that then, the best
of luck to all in this A New Year.

 

After Any Show

Before Any Meal
Think of ...

The
Green Lantern

FOOTWEAR ...

We specialize in footwear
that will fit every college
taste —for either service or
dress wear, for around the
campus or attending social
functions.

We cordially invite you to
pay us a visit. We wresent

such lines as “Hartt”...
“Slater” ... “Murray”, and
“Ritchie”.

Shane’s Shoe Store

397 Barrington Street
Halifax

is

 

 

 

‘ fame for high scholastic standing.

 

   
 
    
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
    
  
   
     
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
    
  
  
     
   
    
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
    
   
  
    
  
    
   
   
  

January 11, 1946 ~~

    

Society Personalities

   

  

® Connie Archibald—Definitely an all round girl, Connie is president
of Delta Gamma Society, an Arts & Science representative on the
Student Council, and second vice-president of the Student Council. A ~«
good sportswoman, Connie plays tennis, gelf, badminton and ping-pong.

Jim Bell—Back to Dal from the army, Jim has done a lot to make
Dal activities a suecess. Jim played on the intermediate football team
this year, is business manager of the Glee Club, and circulation manager
for this year’s Pharos.

Alex Farquhar—Blond, and good looking (by Alex Farquhar). Alex Af
is Freshman representative on the Student Council, and assistant editor &
of Pharos. An important cog in Dalhousie sport wheels, he is an outstanding football and basketball player, editor of the
Dalhousie Gazette. This year Alex had the experience of being Dal’s
representative of-the C.U.P. conference -in London, Ontario.

Don “Shylock” Harris—With a hearty interest in all student activities, Don is kept busy being one of the news editors of the Dalhousie
Gazette, president of the D.A.A.C., and an active debator and member
of the Glee Club.

Gordon Hart—An ex-navy man, Gord graduates in Arts this year
and is entering the Law Society. Falling right into the sw ing of student
activities, Gord- was captain of the Senior football team, and smoothworking stage crew manager for Dal Glee Club.

Bill Mingo—He is vice-president of the Arts & Science, president of :
the Junior Class, secretary-treasurer of the D.A.A.C., and Arts & Science
representative on the Students’ Council. As a side-line, Bill finds time

and sports

to be editor-in-chief of the Ual Gazette, dashing off editorials in his
spare minutes.

“Bugs” MacKenzie—Occasionally known as Erie (joke). “Bugs”
played great football for the Tigers last fall, starring in many plays. %

This season he is basketball manager.
Jim McLaren—Graduatine in
to study for his Master’s degre

Arts last year, Jim came back to Dal
MeGosh column. Noted

, and to write the

for the mighty pen he wields, his articles are always enjoyed and
appreciated. Plus Gazette work, Jim is feature writer for this year’s A
Pharos, and takes an active interest in Dal debating.

Marg MacPherson—Mare is a Pi Beta Phi girl and a senior in

Seience, She is girl’s singles champion in both tennis and ping-pong,
and is an excellent badminton player.
this year.

Don Morrison—Stinky seems to be Dalhousie’s eternal master of
ceremonies, professional waiter, barkeeper, etc. He is back at Dal from
the Air Force and is in charge of photography for Gazette and
co-editor of photography of the year book.

Morton Norman—tThe nemesis of Bernhardt and
Barrymore, Morton is notorious for his theatrical criticisms. Dal Glee
Clubers probably fear Morton’s views more than he realizes. Occasionally delving into short story and Morton is
also literary editor for the Gazette. He graduates this year in Arts.

Virginia Phillips—Ginny is president of D.G.A.C. and president of
Alpha Gamma fraternity. She holds the Dal girl’s singles championship
in badminton, and holds the doubles championship with Marg Fry." She
is also a good basketball player and is girl’s sports editor for this
year’s Pharos. ’

Bill Pope—As co-editor of this year’s Student’s Directory, Bill is to
be congratulated for putting out a useful and informative booklet. He
is also editor-in-chief of this year’s Pharos and an all-round athlete.

He holds the boys’ singles championship in both badminton and pingpong and plays basketball on the varsity team.

Lois Rattee—Lois is an Arts and Science representative on Students’
Council, secretary-treasurer of Delta Gamma, publicity co-manager for .
S.C.M. and a valuable member of the girl’s basketball team. Lois is also
last year’s winner of the Pan-hellenic award which is given to the outstanding freshette of the year. True to
her interests in campus life.

Jo Robertson—Tall, blonde and beautiful with plenty of brains, Jo
is president of Arts & Science Society and girl’s basketball manager. e
She is an excellent badminton, basketball, and tennis player and was
on the champion team for Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis.

Bob Roome—Dartmouth’s gift to Dal women may be found anywhere
in constant company with his pipe and slide rule. In addition to being
campus romeo, Bob is president of the Sophomore class, and one of the
two publicity managers for S.C.M.

Leah has done much in helping to make Dal shows a suecess. She was
on the initiation committee last fall and proved herself an efficient and
competent worker. An excellent
ability with feminine charm.
Nancy Wilson—Nancy is an example of what gives Dalhousie its

Marg is also girl’s tennis manager

the

every budding

writing book reviews

 

character, Lois has

kept up

swimmer and skater, Leah combines

She also has plenty of school spirit;
is girl’s ground hockey manager and secretary-treasurer of Arts and
Science.

Be Smarr- Look SMART

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

 

 

    
     
    
    
  
  

PORE, US Vale Ver) Tea RE Ua

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

5S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL — SOFT COAL
COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

*

HALIFAX, N. S.
    
 
   

 

Tt was New Year’s Day

_ other products of gentility.

 

     
 
   
   
   
  
    
    
   
  
    
     
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
        
     
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
      
   
   
   
  
      
       
   

te mo

bene BOB McCLEAVE

_ © FEELING THAT such an oc' easion as the last issue of the
- Gazette before Christmas merited
h ) an extra great character study to
brighten its hitherto uninspiring
‘pages, ye Fatuous Ed., with many
i a puff and pant climbed the winda ing stairway to the lofty eyrie of
_ the Great (viz. top floor, North
Bu Pole Bay). Here we found him,
still a couchant (at four o’clock in
the: afternoon), murmuring in
i drowsy tones—“Eighteen hours of
sleep every day, that’s my ambi- tion. . Ah! Bighteen, etc. ete.”
B Bhs That is his ambition, and you can
hardly. blame the guy when he
q studies all day, and then acts as
City Editor of the Herald until all
hours of the night. Maybe we had
better go back a little first. Bob
was born in Moncton in 1923 and
‘% attended school there, and_in Rexton, Richebucto, and finally Digby,
i which he left with his Grade 12
and an entrance scholarship. The
same fall he entered Dal—and that
year leading the Freshie-Soph class
' —he won the Alan Pollock Scholar“+ ship.
‘It was in his second year that
ee: Bob’s lengthy and intimate asso
 eiation with the Gazette began—as
= areporter. The following year he
@ fe was appointed Editor-in-Chief (all
<i er reporters duly take note).
_ After that record was a downhill
a one. First, the task of Features
4 editor was unloaded on his shoulders
and then it was unloaded again,
and finally this year he has completed a full cycle, and is occupying
the only position on the Staff lower
; eo: that of a reporter — namely
that of Business Manager . He,
_ has spent one year on the Council,
as representative of the Senior
, Class. An ardent sporting enthus_ iast, his favorite sports are playing
poker and Berching a typewriter.

. CASINO

E

a

iu

wy

ey
‘

7

Po

 

_ An Odeon Theatre
J ‘ . e
yf Six Days Starting

Pan" SATURDAY, JAN. 12th

    
          
       
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
       
   
  
 
      

by J. CRICKET McGOSH

 
 
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
      

and as MecGosh entered the

-ménage of W. Fibbin MacFrenzy Monarch, an admiring hush
_ fell over the august assembly of well-wishers.
distinguished author, traveller and lecturer” in person, who
besides being influential in U.N. O., D.D.T. and The Let’s- Adopt~ The-Codfish-As-Our-National-Emblem Club, was a graduate of
a _ Dullhousie and had hobnobbed with famed Blurbie Stewpot and

Here was “the

Quebecers Support Santa Claus

“Oricket, my boy,” said MacFrenzy Monarch or Uncle Rex (as
your observer knows him), “I have
always respected you as an outstanding sportsman, gentleman and
scholar. I want your mature advice on a sticky problem.”

“Your insight into character is
only exceeded by your good looks,
sir,” said MeGosh with characteristie modesty, — “What’s cookin’
MacFrenzy ?”

“Do the good people of Quebec
believe in Santa Claus?”

“Yes, Uncle Rex, they’re behind
the old codger 100 percent.”

“Well,sas they always back the
right man—there can be no doubt
of his existence. Although personally I’ve often been sceptical as to
how such a fat man as Santy could
squeeze down so many narrow
chimneys. Pat II, my canine friend
and adviser, doesn’t share my
doubts, so I filled his stocking with
a King-size teething ring. He’s
been getting his wisdom teeth.
Planning to run in Prince Albert
next campaign. Keeping up tradition, you know.”

“Frankly, Uncle Rex,” said
MeGosh, “I think Santa is a myth.”

“Funny”, quaked the P.M., “I always thought he was mister.”

Dr. Chasm on Moral Values

At this juncture, psychiatrist
General Chasm filtered into the
room with a copy of “The Devil
and Daniel Webster” tucked under
his arm.

“Moral values are all relative.
We must erase the veneer of pretence and hypocrisy ...” he was
haranguing to Lady Poopingham of
Little Poopingham-on-the-Poop, a
chunky full-bosomed dowager who
was touring the “colonies” as part
of her charitable work.

“But my deah doctah,” tittered
Her Ladyship between nibbles on
a drop-cake. “Do you mean we
should abandon ourselves to the
dictates of passion? ... Although
it does sound exciting, doesn’t it?”

“Exactly, Lady Poopingham,”
said Chasm, who had just burned
a large hole in Uncle Rex’s mahogany desk and kicked the P.M.’s
lacquey in the hind-quarters.
“Never could stand the blighter,”
he volunteered, tweaking Her
Ladyship on the second of her three
chins, “I have an intense dislike
for parasites and conformists.

At this outburst, Uncle Rex paled
noticeably and repaired hastily to
a dark corner, beckoning Metigsh
to join him.

“Pat II and I have been debating
about a new national anthem,” he
mumbled. “I feel that ‘God Save
Our Gracious King’ is a splendid
personal tribute after my 18 glorious years at the helm. But, as I
will be stepping soon into the history books of posterity, perhaps a
theme ‘On the Banks of the St.

' Laurent’ or ‘Howe come You Do

Me Like You Do’—would be more

appropriate.”

McGosh Offered Judgeship

“And don’t forget the immortal
lines from ‘Mairzy Doats’,” said
your chronicler, “about ‘a kid Ilsley
ivy too, wouldn’t you!”

“Bully show, McGosh!” piped
MacFrenzy. “Your counsel as always has been invaluable. Which
would you prefer me to respectfully

| advise His. Majesty to award you

The O.B. . or C.B.E.?”
“Oh, a ; dgeship in P.E.I. will
ck, thanks, os. Rex.”

  
   

 

GAZETTE FEATURES

BLUES IN THE GYM

 

® WELL ANOTHER year is over,
another set of exams are finished,
but old Knowsey is still with you,
yep, I’m too stupid to flunk! So
let’s start the New Year right with
some of our choicest gossip which
concerns...

Zen Graves, who has blazed a
trail right from his house to the
deepest part of —Bedford, where he
has found a little squaw by the
name of Betty H. It seems that
during one of these trips Zen lost
his Gold ‘D’. Is the elusive amoeba
at last caught or will he escape as
he has done on so many previous
occasions?

Surely you’ve heard of ‘Gotta be
this or that” Elsie. What do Bill
and Jim think about it all; anyway,
“What is this thing called love?”

x

One of the news editors on this
illustrious issue has had a bit of
“blond trouble’ and is now free,
white?, and 12.

a * od

After years of waiting wee
Berney Creighton has finally found
a freshette to his size and liking.
Nice going Lilo, a more handsome
couple I’ve vet to see.

xs * of

‘Knowsey advises Nancy W. to
question Jamie on his behaviour on
New Year’s Eve. But don’t get
mad Nancy, after all, New Years
only comes once a year. (1 think).

* ££ *
..-That big, handsome, blond,
bruiser, Robert K. is on the prowl
again. His objective seems to be
a certain New Glasgow lass. Could
it be K-K-K-Kay.

% oo # *

As a parting shot for the New
Year I leave this poem to console
all the love-sick morons on the
campus,

“You meet a girl and you surrender

Though Ged knows why, you're
kind and tender;
Yowre husband, lover, sister,

brother,

Companion, banker, father, mother;

You try your best to be worthy of
her,

You make latates, but she knows

_ you love her;

You’re hers completely, and you
show it;

And what thanks do you get? The
gate

I know it!!!”

 

with the Fire Hydrant Commission.”

 

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“ONE THOUSAND AND ONE
NIGHTS”

with
Cornel Wilde - Evelyn Keyes
‘Thursday - Friday ~ Saturday ©
“DILLINGER”
5 and
AK ec? s SERENAD ”

me i 3
= ee —

     

Med Notes

® ONCE
halls of the Forrest building are
full of the white coated students

AGAIN the _ senescant

of Medicine, who after their holidaying in various locales, seem to
have stood up to the obligations of
New Year’s well enough. Of course

this writer does notice the shaded

glint of fatigue in the heavy-lided
eyes of the mechanical movements
as if something had happened during the Christmas recess that could
be qualified other than restful.

Getting down to a serious refrain,
the staff of the University has been
still further reduced as 1946 begins,
by the absence of Dr, and Mrs,
Saunders, who have been obliged
to spend a year in the South due
to the illness of the former. The
anatomy department will miss their
absence greatly and looks forward
to their return.

Med Basketball

The medical basketball representation in the Interfac. league is
running in to heavy opposition already, with the league still in its
infancy. In spite of the efforts of
veterans Giffen “and Morton, the
Meds bowed to a strong Commerce
team, but with a more enthusiastic
turnout this faculty could repeat
the success of the football season.
So. boys, it’s up to you... !

Comes January 18, and the bloom
of the Medical year arrives with
the annual and famous Ball and
banquet. With the latter occuring
at the Nelson, and the former at
the Scotian, a superlative degree of
levity is well expected to be reached; and as ‘that extra touch’, the
Med Society is planning ‘to supplement that issue of the Gazette and
the fullest effort of the student is
required to make this successful.
Remember that your time is valuable, and that many hands make
light work, so everybody help.

T-SQUARE

® CONGRATULATIONS ARE in
order for Prof. and Mrs. Bowes on
the new arrival at the Bowsery.
The two hundred cigars expected
to arrive at the Drafting room are
a bit overdue, but hope has not
been abandoned yet.

The Dartmouth Pinball Busting
Society, with ‘Personal Magnetism’
Smith and ‘Boot Target’ Wilson,
report a very successful season so
far this year. The only casualties
reported as yet are the pinball machines, many of which have suffered dislocated bumpers.

SOCIAL NOTES

Messrs. Bell and Hines spent an
enjoyable few days at Amherst and
Truro respectively, visiting friends.
Huba Huba!! ... Mr. D. Dunlop
was host at a delightful party at
the American Grill 4 A.M. New
Year’s morning. The floor show
was supplied by the Halifax Police
Foree . . . Sundry Drafting Room
characters are going tsk tsk at the
activities of Skinner, who always
seems to be going off with some
girl or other. . This week’s
example of Engineering ingenuity:
Dunlop, who can fit just anything
pep anser a Pa is

 

‘Low.

ah ; f Castes
on se ale Mita 2, ‘hey i iss a,

Page Five

 

...FREATURES

“| HAVE BEEN FRISKED”

Student Questioned by Police at Early
Hour as Probe in Crime W ave “ ontinues

@® SOONER OR LATER about one out of four people will
come most seriously into contact with the law, that is, the enforcement part of the law, and not such things as wills, deeds,

contracts, or even torts.

There is always something aweinspiring in the meeting with a
policeman. Nice fellows they undoubtedly are, but one has the feeling that perhaps they suspect you
of delving in some dirty work
sometime, and that quite suddenly
they will ask “what were you doing on June 16, 19387” which is
double-barrelled, for whether you
answer it or not, they still think
you are a liar. So you tend to
shy a bit away from them, and
hope for the best.

But, as was started out with, it
can always happen that you are
questioned as either being witness
to a erime or perhaps the criminal himself. It is just as well to
know a bit about answering the
police questions, and from experience with them on that seore, the
author will attempt to draw a few
conclusions.

Perhaps the first rule is to be
deferential and courteous, with an
enthusiastic light in your eye for
answering questions and a quickthinking brain. The other morning
for example, a chap who looked
something like anyone pictured in
a campus who’s who, or even the
series of features on this page on
things you’re apt to bump into at
Dalhousie, was walking down the
street at an early hour, after he
had seen his girl friend home from
a fraternity dance. A car drew up
alongside him filled with five earnest looking policemen, armed to
the teeth with guns and whistles
and handcuffs and billyclubs, and
snarls.

A not very hectic situation, you
say. No, actually it cannot be pictured as that, but it is under such

Wanted...

Feature writers ... and contributors to the feature page
Feature page deadline in future
will be 12 noon on Tuesdays.
Copy submitted after this time
will not appear in that week’s
Gazette.

 

 

Campus
Communique

    

@ STARTING OFF the New Year
with a big bang is the news that
the annual Studley Ball (annual
since last year anyway) comes up
tonight. The once drooping Arts
and Science Society now goes. into
these things in a big way and
assures tie GAZETTE that everyone can have a good time to the
tune of $1.25 and the tunes of Don
P.S.—We hear that there is
free food, too .. . Along similar
lines we see the advance propaganda of the Meds re their yearly
banquet and ra- (whoops! we almost said rat race) at the Scotian.
More on this next week. Needless
to say the damages are much worse
and completely: out of the range of
Freshmen...
ERE ok LL ie Oe ee
Burning question No. 19: When
is Stewart going to settle down?
Before Christmas it was Nita taking lessons on the slide rule, during
the holidays there were Roome-ers
of another friendship. Then comes
the new year and a scientific Newfie . . . Wanted: A comb and a
scooter . .. Please send offers to
G. Van Beek.

ORPHEUS
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“THE BODY SNATCHER”

with
BORIS KARLOFF

“Wagon Wheels Westward”

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“SHADOW OF TERROR”
“CHEROKEE FLASH”

 

aA ed Se

situations as that in which you
may meet the police. Not with
your hands dripping with blood or
money from the crime, but simply
walking along a street and minding your own business, because
there is nobody else’s to mind.

The following conversation took
place:

Police—Come over here, lad. I
want to talk to you.

Fellow—Ah, you
grasping capitalists.
do you want with me?

Police—Have you a registration
card?

Fellow—By George, by a strange
coincidence { haven’t. And it seems
that I really haven’t got a paper
on me with which to identify myself. Do you want my name?

Police—No, that’s hardly necesWhat are you doing out at
this hour of the night.

Fellow—Well, I’m glad you asked me, because I was just wondering that myself. It really is too
cold for walking, yet on the wine
hand . - Uehond, I would say I
don’t hms.

Police—Where do you live?

Fellow—I frequent an institution
of higher learning, known as
College.

Policeman (one of the four in the
ear, great big husky chap with a
voice like an adolescent bull frog)
—F risk him.

Police—Have you got anything
on you?

Fellow—No sir.

Police—Well, let me see. (He
runs his hands briefly over the student’s body, pulling out $2.50 and
a dance program, with Greek
letters on it),

Fellow—Oh yes. Did you know
that that letter is Pi, as in the circumference of a circle, and that one
is Beta, which is part of the word
alphabet, and that one is Phi, as
in on you.

Police—(handing back the dance
program). Keep right on walking,
boy, and don’t let us see you again
tonight.

Fellow—I can assure you _ it
won’t happen again. (Saying which
he disappeared in a cloud of gas).

The following rules from this
actual happening from real life (it
could happen to you) are therefore intended to guide you:

1, Always tell the truth;

2. Don’t argue about property
and civil rights with a policeman
when he tries to frisk you. This
chap was a lawyer but he deliberately kept himself from arguing
on the privacy of the person. Remember, the police have black jacks

minions of
Pray, what

sary.

 

 

which eause internal tinglings with
out leaving external markings.

‘3. Always carry your registration card with. you.

4. Don’t carry any money.

To be serious though, there is a
bad crime wave going on in the
city today, and it behooves everyone to assist the police in anyway
they can. Mostly by staying off

the streets early in the morning, I
guess,

—R. J. McC.

CAPITOL

FRIDAY - SATURDAY
January 11-12

“THE SPANISH
MAIN”

with
PAUL HENREID
MAUREEN O’HARA
WALTER SLEZAK

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“JOHNNY
ANGEL”

with
GEORGE RAFT

       
       
       
     
   
   

  

 

 

a a. fa Se ry

 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

i} - , oe e;
= ea Ts

=a i 7 oe eis
aay
rh =<"

 

J
Peal ‘
i
+

i

 

ey ee 3 P

;
oe i + 3 7 ‘ s

oS he eae ; ; }

1 , 
hare ys aa

iWin ee Phar anti bay Si ef (Ti . = :
: WAT GaY 6 Sisdens "st. AY Ss y
ita ee pete oe j

i Ae ra tee FI, oe eS ly vv

1 + Ay 4 , : eye

ee et) . . :

oe 
Despite the efforts of Ken Wilson
(teft) and Len Mitchell (right)

blond Alec Farquhar slips through
| so chalk up one of the baskets that
| gave his Arts & Science team a
| 38-26 victory over Law in the Gym
i last Saturday night. It was the
i Law boys’ first defeat and the last
| interfaculty game for Farquhar,
| Rogers and other members of both
) teams. Monday night they moved
up into senior company.

Commerce Take Lead;
Arts & Sci. Men Hand Law
First Defeat by 38-26Score

@ BY OUTPLAYING THE med squad in all departments,
Commerce swept into first place in the Interfaculty basketball
league on Saturday night. To aid the Millionaires, the surprising Arts and Science quintet trounced the hitherto first
place Lawyers to the tune of 38-26. In all respects the second
game was more interesting to watch, the teams being more
evenly matched and having to fight for all their opportunities.

Commerce 36—Meds 18 in quick succession. The Meds
In the first tilt, Commerce ™2naged spasmodically to enter the

trampled the doctors into the dust scoring column, but the fighting efliiblaving wrest power both oti the forts of ex-Acadia star Doc Morton
the offensive and on the defensive. and the fine play-mak ing of ener
Bee ihe nomen thet Dunlop guard Carl Giffin, failed to hinder

garnered the first basket, the out- na ee ee .
come of the game was never in 77#me Aa ittle excitement, wi

doubt the Commerce-men walking off the

Dunlop’s basket was followed by 100 with a 20-12 lead.
an angle shot made by Cooley, The second period was very dull
with Rogers and Creighton scoring th Commerce outplaying by. far

their medically-minded foe. Dunlop rapped several shots in the

 

hoop and finished the game with a
twelve point total. The score at
the end of the match stood at
36-18 for the Millionnaires.

Arts & Science 38—Law 26

The second match produced a
much better brand of ball. Both
teams fought hard to whittle down
the opponents but the over-balancing of Senior players on the Studley team proved the downfall of
the Lawyers. The first half was
all Adam Smith, who was. here,
there, and everywhere. He played
a tight game all the way* round.
He swished his shots from all
angles, scoring twelve points in the
first canto, Law was completely
overcome in this half, but came
back strong in the second frame.

 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
     
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

COLLEGE Towards the end of the game, the

FAVORITES Lawyers started to score more fre
guently, and with the frantic play
YOU'LL PASS ALL ing of Eddie Rogers, they brought
YOUR TESTS

down the lead; but the whistle
came to end the game before the
Lawyers could put on too much

power.

WRITING PENCIL

ERITHIN: @

=. Lineups:
LORED PENCIL
ES: ‘. ; Commerce: Dunlop 12; Kenty 1;

| . Creighton 6; Mont 8; Rogers 4;
TURQUOISE ©:
 DRAWIN'

Medicines MacKenzie, McLennan,

° PENCIL Morton 8; Darcy 4; Deacon 2;
Eaton, Moffat, Cox, Giffin 4.

Arts & Science: Smith 16; E.
MacKenzie 2; Pope 9; Robinson,
R. Blakeney 4; Farquhar 7.

Law: Hatfield, Mitchell 1; G.
Hart 2; Drury, E. Rogers 16;
Churchill-Smith, Wilson 5; A. Hart
2; Hickman,

WITH HONOURS!

only 14 fouls were called by
Referee Dunlop. Smith and Rogers
each scored 16 points to lead their
respective teams, while Blakeney
for Arts and Hart for Law played

 

   

The game was rough, although

  

on the Sidelines

by ALEC FARQUHAR

SSS 0S SSS OS SSD

   
    

Ve’re only back for little better than a week and a lot has

happened in Dalhousie’s realm of sport. The Senior basketball
team has played two senior games so far meeting with little
success in either. The hockey squad has had several practices
and hope to play an exhibition encounter next week before
embarking on the Intercollegiate trail on January 26.

Though the hoop squad has come back winless, its showing.

could have been much worse. In Monday night’s encounter
with the league leading Peregrine Navy stars Varsity had the
sailors quaking at the knees more than once. The tars played
a heady slow but sure passing game, while the Tigers displayed
the speed of light afoot together with some devastating long
shooting. The only department in which our players were outclassed was in ball-handling—everybody seems to have butter
on their fingers. However, after being off the hoop court for
over 4 month the showing was exceptionally good for the first
time out. We reckon that Dalhousie will give the league
leaders a battle for top honors in the league.

That slight smoothie that you’ve seen beating his gums
at basketball practice and fidgeting nervously on the Tiger’s
bench during games is an addition to the basketball squad in
the capacity of coach—and a very capable one too. His cognomen is Keith Matthews and he hails from ‘way out west’—
Vancouver to be exact. Keith knows his way around the
court, having performed with the University of British
Coiumbia Thunderbirds .in 1941 before entering the Navy.
The coach has a big job to do in looking after two squads and
he aims to have them winning combinations too. A pepperpot,
a man who knows the game inside out, and who demands the
respect of the boys, Keith has an amazing faculty of getting
the most out of his charges.

Now’s the time to start saving your pennies little chilun
cause In exactly two weeks (January 26) there’s going to be a
gala trip to the environs of Mount Allison. The men’s*basketball and hockey teams are going to invade the portals of New
Brunswick in a couple of exhibition tilts. Nobody can predict
the results of these games, but from observing the teams in
practice it’s quite likely we’ll come back with a couple of sweet
victories, under our belts.

This trip is the first of many that our athletically minded
students are going to make this year—let’s_start off in good
style with a big supporting mob right on the heels of the
performers.
| Orchids to the stellar rearguard Carl Giffen, newly elected
captain of the hoop squad. Gif has been keeping opponents
from scoring baskets against us for three years now and the
choice of his mates is a wise and popular one.

Dartmouth R.C.A F. Rally
ToWin In Dying Moments

Varsity Leads Throughout, But Fail to Hold Margin.

® VARSITY’S TIGERS journeyed to Eastern Air Command
on Wednesday night to try for a second time to cop a win, but
after leading the Dartmouth team throughout the piece fell
apart in the dying minutes of the fray to drop the tilt 38-34.

 

 

Trying a new tactical system of
starting slowly, the Tigers were
very successful in the opening half

Girls’ Seconds Trounce
ith Dunl and Giffen hoopi
ol yee as eee: Comrades at Y.W.C.A.

loed Airmen could only manage to @
Joop four field goals. The half
ended with the collegians leading
17-8,

In the second* canto, the Airmen
started off with a determined effort
to overcome the Tigers’ lead, but
the youthful students matched
basket for. basket and maintained
their margin. With three minutes score of 21-9. The last two periods
remaining, the Bengals led 32-25 were particularly rough, with both
and seemed to have the game well jeams exhibiting more fighting
in hand but the Airmen led by - spirit than style. The outstanding
Padre Lawrence whipped in three player among the University girls

THE GIRLS’ second basketball
team had their first tussle in the
city league when they met the
Comrades on the Y.W.C.A. floor on
Wednesday evening. The Dal team
which ineluded five Freshettes
among its eight players took the
lead early in the game and maintained it throughout with a final

field goals und a foul shot to tie was Sheila Currie whose shots
the game at 32-32, The score stood gained 14 points. Leslie Ann

thus at the end of official playing
time. In the five-minute overtime
period the Flyers outscored the
Tigers 6-2 and took the game by
the final score of 38-34,

The Flyers are currently rated
as favourites to take the City
League title and Dalhousie’s fine
showing against them signifies that
it is a force to be reckoned with
not a little.

Carl Giffen, stellar rearguard,
turned in a scintillating offensive
job in racking up eleven points.
Joey Waxman, diminutive guard of
the Airmen led his team’s attack
by netting ten markers.

Hayes exhibited good defence material on the guard line.

Line-up:

Forwards: V. Phillips 8; N. Sherman 8; S. Currie 14; J. Sherman 1.

Guards: M. MacPherson,  L.
Hayes, V. Leonard, J. Holm.

 

Lineup:
Dalhousie: Dunlop, 7; Cooley, 4;
Farquhar, 9; Giffin, 11; Blakeney,
Knight, 2; Rogers, Morton, Robinson, 1.

Air Force: Baine. 4; Lawrence,
10; Waxman, 10; Calfas, 1; Adams,
2; Baker, 6; Pasternak, 4; Grey. 2.

| EE «i a :

TIGERS DROP DEBUT ~
IN SENIOR CIRCUIT
TO LEAGUE LEADERS

Youthful Varsity Stars Outclassed 47-30 by Tars

@® DALHOUSIE went down to its initial defeat on Monday
night in the Senior League, when the fighting Tigers met the

strong Peregrine quintet in a fast basketball match.

The

Tigers, although showing speed and promise, were outplayed
by the first place sailors and lost by a wide margin, 47-30.

First Half Fast

The first half started very fast.
Dalhousie pressed for a few
minutes, taking the lead on a
basket by Blair Dunlop; but the
lead was very momentary as Musgrave and Lowe combined to tally
for Peregrine. The sailors then
pitted basket after basket to
lengthen their lead and they put
up a stout defense in front of their
own basket which gave the Bengals little chance for close-in layup shots. The Tiger shooting was
poor, and when they left the floor
at half time, they found themselves
behind by 13 points, the score reading 21-8.

Play Evens

The second half was a different
story. Led by bland Alex Farquhar
the Dalhousians found the basket
and began to score. Peregrine let
up on their play to coast their
lead, using their greater experience
and polish to stave off the fierce
attacks. Cooley and Giffin played
masterful games under the basket,
snagging the rebounds before Peregrine had a chance to capitalize on
loose balls. Still the sailors held
a stiff defense, and had it not been
for the brillant one-hand shots of
Farquhar, the Tigers would have
had little seore. As it the
game ended in Peregrine’s favour,
with the score 47-30.

High-point man of the game was

Was

Lowe of the Tars, who garnered
14 points, Farquhar led Dalhousie
with 11 points, while Cooley and

Giffin shared honors for defensive
play.

 

Girls’ Hoop Schedule

SENIOR CITY LEAGUE

Jan. 3—Thursday

Grads vs. Comr. at Dal, 6.30 p.m.
Jan, 7—Monday

Stad. vs. YWCA at Stad., 7 p.m.
Jan. $—Wednesday

Pere. vs Stad. at Pere., 7 p.m.
Jan. 9—Wednesday

Comr. vs Dal 2 at YWCA, 7 p.m.
Jan. 14—Monday

Stad. vs Pere, at Stad., 7 p.m.
Jan. 16—Wednesday

Dal 2 vs Grads at Dal, 7 p.m.
Jan. 17—Thursday

YWCA vs Stad at YWCA, 7 p.m.
Jan. 23—-Wednesday

Pere vs YWCA at Pere., 7 p.m.
Jan. 23—Wednesday

Comr vs Grads at YWCA, 7 p.m,
Janu. 24—Thursday

Grads vs Dal 2 at Dal, 6.30 p.m,
Jan. 30-—Wednesday—

Dal 2 vs Comr. at Dal, 7 p.m.
Jan. 31—Thursday

YWCA vs Pere at YWCA 7 p.m.

 

Playoffs—series best of three—
to be played in February.

Swiming for girls—Every Saturday, 2.30 to 3.30. Meet at gym
2 p.m.

Archery—Girls and boys every
Monday evening 8 to 9,80.

 

Lineup: Ralph Cooley, A. Farquhar 11; B. Dunlop 6; Mitchell,
A. Robinson 2; C, Giffin 2; .E.
Rogers 3; Doc Morton 2; R. Blakeney, G. Hart 2; B. Knight 2.

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war.

It is now a good slogan

in peace: “Say Schwartz and be Sure’. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House

Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

 

 
