  

» JJ

alhouste | =DALHOUSIE MEDICAL onun

Gala Program Planned;
Galsto !akeOverCampus

By BILL KELLY

 

 

AMERICA’S

VOL. LXXVIII

OLDEST

STUDENT

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 18, 1946

PUBLICATION

 

No. 11

 

e
Debating Team Named
' e e
At Trials For Coming
*,¢
M. I. D. L. Competition
@® DEBATING GOT underway on
Tuesday, January 15, when the
trials were held to choose the téams
for intercollegiate debates. Allan
Blakeney, president of Sodales,
conducted the meeting, and the
would-be debators were competently judged by Dr. Prince, Professor
Mercer, and Professor Milner.

The topic set, “Resolved that the
control of the atomic bomb should
be internationalized” was a random
one and not adhered to by all the
contestants. One novice chose

National Conference Discussed by Dal Veterans
New Committees Elected

@® THE SECOND MEETING.of.,the Dalhousie Student Veterans’ Association was held in the Chemistry Theatre.on Jan.
10 at 8.p.m., with President Alex Hart-of Dartmouth, N.5.,.in
the chair. The President spoke on the. recent, activities of the
National Conference of Student Veterans’ Association, which
met in Montreal during December 27,.28 and 29, 1945.

A motion that Dalhousie | University and,the Student Council be
thanked. for the money contributed

 

Individual Photos Of

Concert Will Feature
Best of Dal Talent;
Ticket Sales Limited

® ON MONDALY evening, Jan. 26,
in. the Ballroom of the Nova Scotian Hotel, Dalhousie students and
the Halifax public will have the
one and only opportunity to hear
the best of musical talent of Dalhousie. Many of the students who
will contribute to what promises to
be an enjoyable evening’s program
are also studying at the Halifax
Conservatory or the Maritime
Academy of Music.

Those participating include Geoffrey Payzant and Dave Archibald,

 

® THIS IS THE TIME when strong men shudder and homely
men weep (1), for this is the time that Dalhousie becomes a

matriarchy for a week.

Delta Gamma, flushed with the victory over the gullibility
of males in the previous Sadie Hawkins’ Days, is coming out
in long pants (2) this year with a four-star, slam-bang, double

the age old argument as to whether d organists; Frances Saulnier and chocolate, (3) week-long parade of fascinating social events
a IWS , sendin Sear eS eae BYP ch = ce -s
i or not examinations should be ‘? cover the expenses of . F rosh To Be F eature Lorna Roome, violinists; Terry Out of gratefulness for the thousands of favours the men have

abolished. If not, suggested the
speaker, the beneficiaries of said
torture, namely the Nova Scotia
Light and Power and the N. 5.
Liquor Commission should at least
turn over a small royalty to stu
 

our delegates to Montreal was
passed) at once.

Mr, Tommy Giles then reported
on the Housing programs. outlined
at the conference. He pointed out
the general difficulties in, this. de
In Year Book;. No Cost

® IN ACCORDANCE. with the
plans of the 1946, ‘Pharos, individual
pictures of all Freshmen will be
run. This is one of the features

Monaghan and Marjorie Coady, voealists; .Cyril Bugden, trumpet;
Mary Lou Christie and Neil Van
Allen, pianists..

In addition, the Dalhousie chorus
and orchestra under the direction

given them (4).

Preparations have been underway for some

time; pennies have been saved, reliable but unglamorous beaux
have been thrown away (5), and a discerning eye cast upon

unattached males (6).
Open-House
The first event of the week takes

malade Hovel with the old familiar
reliable suitor to await another

 

*+ dents. The suggested subject re- partment, and clearly. explained 4).: will be carried out in the en- of W. A. White and Frank Pad- Place tomorrow night, with an open year, when, for a week they can
ceived varied treatment with the other programs already adopted by larged Undergraduate Section of | more ved peltively will ee severa| House at Shirreff Hall (7). During again let their imagination and
affirmative gaining a slight edge. other Canadian Universities. (U. of the Year Book. ai ntiees. ice the next day, it is expected that all _ their legs run riot.

All discussions were of a high cali- Alberta). | Receive pikturos ar. ines meen emits holdin ae, Ce enna by §=—-Footnotes:
bre and any of the speakers would Mre Douglas N¢yles, “ourfevice- “Foc nen will be taken. at the er ee = re From Bach io 1Y Omen phoning them up asking (1) Sob.
5, be worthy of representing the uni- president from Amberst, N. S., yoar Book’s expense, and it. is Lizt’s Bieta Set iart Rhapso- for ee ee ey ook ® ‘depatenicn on Bale See
: versity, ! submitted a concise report on the hoped that the Frosh will give their dic fa Bice fe oe studying done because they will (3) eek Lecco ae
; capi . é : ss waltzes. = ipl, ' > yourself,
Those who will represent Dal-  actiyities. of ,the Rinance Panel, full cooperation in order to carry Arrangements are being made have no time for books for some (4) Editor’s note: Hell’s bells,
housie in intercollegiate debating pointing out that definite action .14 this plan. During the next Fiz at Ope & Hotes Clee lab Cala time. (Continued on page 2)
are as follows: M. Yeoman, D. has been. taken. te secure an in- week,.Monday. through, Friday, be- Party ke be held n the Relieanns (8). Monday night. blossoms out
MacEachern, J, Saunders, W. Mel- crease invallowances for single. and tween 12.00 and 1.00 p.m., the pea Lia ober, AVES Weeney with a big double-feature, a choice °
a drum, A. Blakeney and L. Soper. married students. The brief con- 7,,<h are asked to come to. the a aed Gas “oil ne lage, between skating at the Arena and Executive otf S. C. M.
benenipiiake cerning. this will begsubmitted to “year Book. office, in the basement me, a bridge tournament at the Com- Chan ed: N Pl
federal authorities at Ottawa on Ff ihe Arts Building, and make an a mon Room. Tuesday night features g 9 ew ans
| A. and S. Faculty Well approximately the 19th of this .)pointment to have their photo eae papepecs a debate in the Common Room be- Outlined For Grou
R ted At Ball month. President Hart concluded  jahen. ” ui . oy a oe . tween Delta Gamma and the En- Pp
; epresen : with a short discussion on edu- ents Fo, iio ao! 1 nee te ei aa ea CA gineers (9). Wednesday night ® THE DALHOUSIE STUDENT
'@ THE FIRST dance of the second ation. _ It is reported that one salesman high a Se a to igre yet ree te paeroety Christian Movement met in the

Ly term was the Arts & Science Ball Certain motions passed at this | .jone..sold- over 50- books in two sy ‘iad er aR ar dots : £ le Theatre, starring. Charles Boyer Student’s Common Room on Tuesheld in the gym. About 350 people meeting are listed below, in order days. In order for the: Year Book im gee ea, oa me hi i (10), and whoever happens to Walk day -night.to decide. whether Acie
chaperoned by members of the of their presentation: to make an early appearance it is A Die Pere office su ae eas In front of the projejctor while the it was worthwhile continuing as a
faculty, enjoyed the excellent music (1) That-the Dalhousie Student essential that the covers, which are a a EO sonia eo show is OR During the course of part of the national movement of
of Don Low, as well as the refresh- Veterans Association be main- not made in the city, be ordered dav ic sda and Wednesday ba. the show it is permissible for ene the S.C.M. After much discussion
ments. tained as a single body, rather than well in advance, and in order todo jy. 44s and 215 vm. next adies to hold the gentlemen's at which Alex MacDonald chaired

This year’s Studley Ball was having it decimated according to this the number of students wish- . wre RR eg Re ee it was decided to continue as part
planned for its entertainment value the various faculties. ing to have books must be known. A ltnited eae ihe deceacat es next night, Thursday, is the of the movement but to change the
rather than as a money-making (2) A temporary committee of So students, when a canvasser ap- tectealsly he m% ie Phinnev’s eee night of the pear for the program of the Dal S.C.M.
concern. However, it payed for the following members was elected proaches you, please have your .», are aei sda av "thsi be An Oe women. The port of call will be the Part ;.of this. change--wee ihe
itself and left a small profit. The for the sole purpose of drafting a money ready—only $2.50—and thus ee :. ee Stet sie gymnasium and Dogpatch will be resignation of the old executive
real profit may be measured by the constitution; Mr. D. McLellan, Mr. make sure of a well printed book, a | es recreated with the geqjnual Sadie and the appointment of a much

' old friends entertained and the new GG, R: Matheson, and Mr. J. J. D. filled with interesting material and Gals! Don't forget pos tone your Hawkins Dance. (11) 1 he women smaller group to the routine execu
PB a Stconitn “made: Cregan. beautiful pictures. Pharos may be pals to the Connoly Shield 3-Act do the pick-up and delivery work tive work. The officers now are:

 

Free Skating at the Arena every
Monday night for all Dal students,
8.30 to 10.30.

(3) A Housing Committee was
chosen with Mr. Tom Giles as

Continued on page two

 

Vets Housing Comnilttee
Active; Plan Questionaire

- @ IN THE SHORT period since its

appointment the housing committee
of the Dalhousie Student Veterans
Association has learned that there
is a very definite and urgent housing problem at Dalhousie, especially as far as married veterans
are concerned, and is working on
a plan of action which it is hoped
may help to alleviate the situation.
The plan of the Committee, briefly, is through questionnaires and
interviews to make an accurate
survey of the Housing situation as
it affects Dal Vets, and with the
information obtained to approach
_eivic authorities and all agencies

which deal with housing with a

view to getting a fair share of all
housing accommodation as, and
when, it becomes available. The
- gommittee also plans to investigate

city to determine if possible what
ones are unoccupied or_ are, likely
to become unoccupied in the near
future with a view to the possible
acquisition of some barrack accommodation, which may be turned
into apartments for veterans and
their families, |

It is realized by the committee
that this is a comparatively long
term plan and that there are numerous emergency cases that need
assistance now. Any student veteran who has a housing problem
is urged to contact Mr. Jack Godden, pre-med, Mr. Neil Price, law
school, or Mr. T. A. Giles, law
school, and give them all the details. It must be realized that the
committee can promise nothing,
still an organized attempt will be
made to solve all problems that are
brought to their notice.

ordered at the Year Book office or
from the following students: Al
Lomas, Connie Archibald, Kay MacLean, Alex Farquhar, Issy Wilmot,
Jim Bell, Drummond Fraser, Bob
Seeley, Janet Gillis, Bob Watson,
Allan Blakeney, Hope Bridgeford,
Jack Boudreau, Doug Hunt, Donald
Hebb.

 

     

What Your Couucil
Did Wednesday

1. Voted against building bleachers in’ the gymnasium at the
present time.

2. Treasurer’s report showed a
total of $14,404.59 income and
expenses amounting to $14,190.32.

3. Approved Thursday night intercollegiate games at Arena.

4. Approved amendments to D.G.
A.C. constitution.

5. Voted against granting expenses to cover trips of hockey and
basketball teams to Mount Allison.

6. Appointed elections and Munro
Day Committees.

7. Approved basketball meet
March 15-16 and boxing March 1.

play contest to be held in the gymnasium next Friday night at 8 p.m.
Delta Gamma, the Arts and Science
Society, and King’s will compete
for the Shield. The choice of the
plays this year seems to be varied
and should meet with approval
from the majority of the students.
Admission on presentation of Student Council tickets; admission for
outside guests 35¢ per person.

Manitoba Has Buffalo
Mascot For Tourney

® WINNIPEG, Jan. 18.—(CUP)—
A buffalo, a bear and a husky pup
are scheduled to be the mascots at
the coming intercollegiate basketball tournament at the University
of Manitoba campus. The University of Manitoba Students’
Union offices asked the University
of Saskatchewan to bring a live
bear cub to the tournament, their
emblem being the Golden Bear, and
the University of Alberta was requested to bring a live husky pup.

A live buffalo was obtained last
week by Bruce Larse of the U. of
M. from the Winnipeg Parks Board

(Continued on page 2)

 

 

for this dance, supply the corsage
(edible) and stand the costs. (13)
On the final night. of co-ed week
the one act play competition will
be held in the gym (14), followed
by dancing.

With the last good-night of Friday, co-ed week is over. The campus then swings back into its ordinary routine, the gals crawl back
into their familiar alcoves at Mar
President, Ruth Patterson; VicePresident, Lois Rattee: Secretary,
Ralph MacDonald; Treasurer, Alex
MacDonald. All others interested
in discussing and trying to find
meaning and value in religion, or
other problems that may arise are
invited to become part of a new
group which will meet weekly.
The first meeting was held Thursday at noon,

 

Students Want Un.-Jack
Retained in New Flag

@® IN A POLL conducted throughout the University early this week,
for the Canadian University Press
Institute of Student Opinion, Dalhousie voiced its overwhelming approval of the government’s proposal to adopt a distinctively national flag.

The question asked was: “In your
opinion, do you think Canada
should adopt a distinctive national
flag? If so, do you think the
Union Jack should be part of it?”
Approximately 10% of the student
body was approached. Of those
quizzed, 80% were in favor of a

new flag; 12% answered no; and
8% were undecided. Of those who
favored the adoption of a new flag,
73% approved the inclusion of the
Union Jack in the design. 28%
were opposed, and 4% were undecided.

The poll, which is national, is
sent out regularly to every member paper of the Canadian University Press. The plan for CUPISO
was advanced and adopted at the
recent CUP conference in London,
Ontario. Results of the national
poll, not yet determined, will be
published at a later date.

 
   

y, ms Pi 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 

:
'

- @ THOUGH THERE MAY REMAIN some
doubt whether or not “peace” has yet com_ _-when defined as the struggle against Germany, Italy and Japan—is over, and that the

Se
we Oh
ie te

eee
; 4 eae Sh “ae ova aS
“J rhe ant a) p) 4
al Ae as vahthorn
P 7 of 1 Pras UF ‘ 1

7 @
a é

America’s Oldest Student Publication
Mo be ‘For more than 76 years devoted to the interests of the student body.

Will Dalhousie Have One?

versity War Memorials:

menced, it is generally accepted that the War

time is appropriate for considering what kind

memorial Canadian universities should
h, testifying both to outsiders and to
ity the high regard the alma mater

   
 

holds for those of her sons now among the
ranks of the glorious dead. For monuments
several suggestions have already been ad
vanced, ranging all the way from those of a
strictly commemorative nature to the variety

that also serve as gymnasiums and hockey

rinks. Other proposals of a more abstract

character include a scholarship fund for

children of servicemen and a somewhat idealistic plan for endowing ‘chairs of peace’, where

all students might be taught the causes of
war and the means of overcoming them.

_ Since it promises to be not only as tangible
and as permanent as a stone monument, but

“genuinely useful as well, the war memorial

gymnasium is enjoying the greatest popularity; although its promoters are frequently
accused of exploiting its “memorial” signifi
eance to secure a practical addition to the

university plant. It is usually a gymnasium
because everybody appears to need one, or at
least a better one, and as the undertaking in

--many instances is engineered by students to

commemorate their fellow students, it is
thought that that type of building only is

_ fitting which has particular appeal to students.

- 7 ee at a
A - “ H a ¥
1a eer ee ot
iz “7 Tak it .

b4 Veteee, VL,

a

   

Staff

Tardy eG SeR eS Bill Mingo
ove a Manager ..Bob McCleave
Associate editors:
WOWE is esslcacncae Blair Dunlop
jae Paxtokas

PER? See kn :
Literary ....... Morton Norman

Photography ... Don Morrison
Cartoons—Bob Tuck.
Circulation—Nita Sideris

Mary Farquhar

 
  
    
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

Planning an $850,000 expansion of their
present gym, to include indoor grandstands
seating 5,000 for their basketball courts, and
an artificial hockey rink, also seating 5,000,
not to mention numerous smaller facilities,
McGill (registration over 6,000), with only a
third of their alumni canvassed, have already
collected two thirds of this objective. By
signing over their C.0.T.C. pay during the war
years, and by campaigning for subscriptions
among themselves, the students alone have
realized almost $40,000. For their proposed
new half million dollar war memorial gym, the
Students’ Council of the University of British
Columbia (registration over 7,000) intend to
float a bond issue this spring to the value of
$150,000, expecting their alumni to donate the
remainder. The University of Alberta (registration over 2,500) is employing similar
means.

The question which naturally interests us
is, of course, what is to be done at Dalhousie.
We need not pretend we must have a new
men’s residence or swimming pool to demonstrate our respect and appreciation for those
who gave their lives to save our necks,—yet
another bronze plaque in the lobby of the
library might not be out of place. And aside
from the memorial aspect, it is dispairing to
observe other universities in the Dominion,
and even in the Maritimes, undertake ambitious expansion programs, whereas Dalhousie,
now when the country is at the peak of a
period of economic prosperity, must wage a
struggle just to hold on to what she possesses.

 

How to Study Milton

  

. ranean nee oes
I OIE AE A PT ne

 

 

, ERE are at least two ways by which to sur
vive a course in University English, particuarly
if that course deals extensively with a single poet
like John Milton, who produced a tremendous output
of relatively obscure poetry—obscure at least to students in their first or second years at college.

The first is the “Sanforized-Shrunk” or “pre-digested” course in Milton. There are a great many
collected editions of the poet’s work, all of which
have been neatly indexed and cross-indexed. The
student who is not too conscientious, may very easily

‘find in these books apt quotations which would suit

various themes and exercises. If, for example, the
theme subject were something vague like “Hard
Liberty”, he could look in Walker’s Selections from
Milton, under the title Milton’s Purpose. There he
would find a quotation from Wordsworth’s famous
sonnet to Milton—“The heart the lowliest duties on
herself did lay.” Ah! A title! Without further
thought on the subject, the student could put this at
the head of a sheet of paper, and write about almost
anything. There would be a footnote, of course, at
the bottom of the title-page explaining the derivation

_ of the title. :

There is, indeed, very little that one might not
verify by a simple quotation from Milton. The student could prove that Milton himself was anything
from a polytheistic and epicurean to a shizophrenic
or a sexual pervert. And it is not necessary to read
all of Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained. The

_ theme writer could cast his eye over any page of

Hanford’s Selections, and find a quotation which
could be inflated to demonstrate his point with complete clarity. He could read carelessly a few of the
introductions in Walker or Hanford, and a few critiques, and have a clearer idea of what the poems are
about than if he had bothered to read them himself.

2 ERE is still another way to study Milton—

called (for lack of a more suitable title) the
“Crackpot Method”. The crackpot is the conscientious

student, who, upon first reading Milton, will admit

quite frankly, “This is too deep for me.” He will then
go to the library, and take down a volume of Bullfinch
—thus obtaining a working knowledge of Greek Myth
é _ ology and legend. He will then read some biography

      

   
 

on Milton and his contemporaries, and obtain some
clear idea on the spirit of the Renaissance. Because
Milton was a man of very broad personality and tremendous energy, it will also be necessary to know a
few things about the religious and scientific beliefs
and attitudes of his time. This will require a knowledge of the Copernican and Ptolemaic theories of the
universe. Milton, after all, dedicated his life to an
interpretation of “the best and sagest things” of his
age, and the student of Milton is obliged to know
something of those good and sage things in order to
appreciate and understand the fulfillment of this
dedication.

E crackpot will be equipped to undertake his

first tentative steps into Milton’s cosmos hardly
in time for the Christmas examinations. He will
probably obtain lower grades than the “SanforizedShrunk” school, which will parrot-like repeat the
condensed utterances of others. But during the
Christmas vacation, and on, during the study of
Shakespeare and the Bible, he will be reading Milton
and background for Milton—Machiavelli, Symonds,
Matthew Arnold, Dante, St. Augustine—all will be
read, and the spirit of Milton and his day will become second nature. He will not need to stretch out
his handwriting to make six hundred words cover
five sheets of foolscap, because he will be able to end
his theme without shame when what he has to say
has been said, even if on the second page.

With his dying breath, the Milton Student or
Crackpot will say, “I have read all I will need to read
by and about Milton.” And if “God... prove (his)
foe” and deny him Heaven, he will descend happily
into Hell, having tasted of Heaven’s fruits on earth.
Glowing with the “dim religious light” that had become a part of him on earth, he will be better off
in Hell anyway, for there he will meet his beloved
Puritan scribe; who went there because St. Peter had
an inferiority complex. The two will rush into each
other’s arms, and spend eternity each joyously beating the other over the head with glowing hammers, in
ecstatic anticipation of the fleshly pleasures they
will enjoy when the. Millenium comes and bids them
desist.

—G. B. P.

 

(8) If nobody rings you up, just

gineer for a list of seats in the

 
 
 
  
  
      
 

Gala Program-
(Continued from page 1)

pte eter therting at this paper is Jousy.
~ (5) c. £. No. 1.:

(6) My ies number is in the

Set Advice to eager-beavers: we.

5 ; _ are grieved to report that only the
Potten half of the house wil be

w -?
a _-'
= % é : ce
oI i ‘ f :
|

  

“forget the whole thing, bub!

(9) The Engineers, being no gentlemen, are trying to win this, even
if they don’t get any dates for the
rest of the week.

(10) Ah, cherie! your smile ees
like fine champagne—it costs somebody a helluvalot of money.

(11) For those who desire more
violent entertainment, see any en
Chem theatre whose arms are removable.

(12) This dance is fancy dress
for all but a certain Commerce
students whose clothes always look
that way.

(13) If they can stand.

(14) Our friend’ Miss MeTavish
wishes us to note that admission
to this event is free.

arma the
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Canadian

Campus

UNIVERSITY -INFLUX CAUSES

GROWTH
@® THE 1945-6 population is almost
double that of 1944-5!

No, the above is not a quotation
from the recently issued Canada
Year Book, and it isn’t an estimate
of the total Canadian population.
It is the university population of
Canada that has soared in such a
startling manner.

Last fall Canadian Campus discussed the end of the campus manpower and the beginning of the
campus housing shortage, now we
eome to the cause of it all. Canadians released from the armed services and from high schools have
decided in favor of the student life
in greater numbers than ever before. Army huts and temporary
lecture rooms of all kinds have
sprung up beside the ivy covered
“sacred halls” in an effort to meet
the emergency. And in some cases,
notably McGill and the University
of Toronto, auxiliary college at
Dawson and Ajax have been
opened.

From coast to coast the story is
the same: college by college more
students are in search of know!ledge. Enrollment at the University
of New Brunswick has jumped from
325 to 740, more than double normal registration. Two hundred and
eighty-five of these are veterans,
and 200 more are preparing to
enter Alexander College, another
on the list of post-war extensions.

McGill registration is also over
double last year; leaping from
2,710 to 5,744, which includes 1,948
veterans. The increase has been
felt in all faculties; especially in
the faculty of arts, newly emerged
from under the six-year war cloud.

Registration at Queen’s is one exception to the double trouble, An
increase of 823 over last year, contributed to by 1,032 ex-service personnel, has raised the total to 2,291.
The proportion of civilan men to
women is two to one, but among
ex-service students it is 22.45 to 1.

The University of Manitoba
boasts a total of 5,100, a 2,800 increase on the figures for last year.
Eighteen hundred and forty-two of
these are veterans. Exact figures
are not yet available for the University of British Columbia, but
estimates place the increase at
1,500, raising the total registration from 5,800 to 7,300.

Conference-
(Continued from page 1)
chairman and Messrs. J. Godden
and D. Price as members.

(4) A Finance Committee was
chosen with Mr. Norm Sinclair as
chairman and Rollie Frazee and
Mark Yeoman as members. (Here
it was stipulated that one member
should be from Forrest and two
from Studley.)

(5) A general committee was
elected with Colin Smith as chairman to be assisted by Miss Mary
Sinclair, Mr. Don Black, Mr. Bruce
Nickerson and Mr. W. Meldrum.

Mr. Giles was allowed to resign
as. secretary-treasurer of the Association in order to direct the
Housing Committee and was replaced by Miss Helen Beveridge of
Shelburne, N. S. A vote of thanks
was tendered to Mr. Giles for his
excellent assistance in the formative period of the Association.

Continued on page three

Manitoba-
(Continued from page 1)
and has been named Kanna Keena.
The W.S. Newton Insurance Co.
agreed to write a policy covering
public liability damage of property
and the animal itself, and the bear
was transported to Fort Garry
where it will be kept in a corral.

The Universities of Saskatchewan and Alberta have not yet
answered the challenge, and it is
believed that the University of Alberta is going to have a hard time
finding the bear cub, while Saskatchewan is used to bringing along
huskie pups as mascots for their
rugby games.

a

 

 

 

 
    
 

wey

‘a

January 18, 1946 _~ a

Play

When it's time out for fun and
games Sweet Caps just naturally join the party for smoking
enjoyment.

{

 

      
 

   

“

Bank on a Sweet Cap
for satisfaction — anywhere. .
And when you tune in

“LIGHT UP AND LISTEN” WITH

SWEET CAPORAL

CIGARETTES
stTaTION CHNS

Every Thursday Night 10:30 p.m.

- anytime!

 

 

“Birks Challenger .
Watch Time”

After Any Show

Before Any Meal
Think of ...
The

Green Lantern

Many times you have heard
these words over the radio.

Aren’t you a little curious
to see a Challenger? This is
not an invitation, its a dare to
come in and resist one.

Henry Birks and Sons | — |
Limited |

Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax m™

 

Corsages |
A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE,

speaks eloquent volumes |
of tenderness and love. ;|

To press-time daily the latest
news coming over Canadian
Press and British United Press
wires are published to keep
students abreast of world and
local events. Make it your daily
nabit to read.

 

The Halifax Herald
and Halifax Mail

NURSERIES Limited...
38! sarrRincTon /T.- HALIFAX

® Yes, sir, your suit actually FEELS like new
after Cousins have Sanitoned it. Why? Because Sanitoning restores certain materials to
the fabric that give new cloth its rich feel.

And, what’s more, this unique dry cleaning
eases out even deeply ingrained soil, grit and
perspiration ... cleans to the very heart of the

fabric fibre. Only Cousins has Sanitone Service
in Halifax.

PLANT CALL OFFICE: ROBIE AT WEST
DOWNTOWN: BARRINGTON AT GEORGE

Halhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.
Graduate Courses of recognized standing,
of M.A., M.Sc.
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses,

leading to degrees

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, ‘ : :

about $190 a year

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
  
  
    
  
  
   
   
      
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
 
    
    
   
   
   
   
  

 

; i
ph
Ps
ieee,
Aes

d =. ne

fae
F zs
‘

% b

‘short order by (2).

give
Se cre

Hae .
. ee ' “8:
eA

; ES 1) ee. ; ; ~ : Pi ier ; !
edicine Scores!

+
}

The Med Ball

@® THE VARIOUS MANCEUVRES attendant upon the act
of going to the Med Ball have always appeared to us more or

less routine in nature.

It is upon certain variations—and pit
falls—in the commennly accepted theme that we should now

like to comment.

1. Obtaining a ticket. This is a
procedure requiring little out of
the ordinary in the way of intelligence; but, paradoxically enough,
it has attained the status of a sine
qua non. Any credited representative of the Medical Society will be

glad to hand you a ticket if you ask

him nicely, and pass him the sum
of $3.50. It recently behooved one
of our boilermaking brethren to remark that the price was high. Two
reasons for this may be advanced:
(1) Myr. Isley has recently seen
fit to discontinue the excess profits
tax. (2) One has to pay for
quality.

2. Obtaining a date. It is now
—and has been for some time—the
custom that every gentleman who
attends such an affair shall be accompanied by a lady, preferably of
his own choosing. If you don’t,
you’re not one of the boys.

Chronologically, the sequence of
events is usually (1) followed in
The individualist may choose to reverse the

order; but the safety factor dic
tates (I) ahead of (II)—that is to
say, first things first, not second.

Now this procedure requires
some thought; lacking this, a potential success may turn into an
awkward rout. On the assumption
that the usual route of communication is the telephone, and that,
should you be at a pay phone, you
agree with yourself to use no more

- than ten nickels on that particular

occasion, we shall proceed.
Whom to call? If you have not

seen her for a year or two, it is
always well to enquire from some
reliable source whether or not she
now enjoys a state of wedded bliss.
This avoids conversational difficul- ties later on, and saves you the
trouble of asking politely whether
baby looks like mummy or daddy.

The time of your call is important —
*  —we would suggest at least one —

a

the girls time to talk the
g up among themselves. What

are your ulterior motives? You
think, perhaps, of the Sadie Hawkins party, which may be in the
immediate offing. Expressed in
words, it would run like this: “If
I ask her to the Med Ball, what are
the odds that she will ask me to the
Sadie Hawkins party, and thus preserve my prestige as a respected
entity within Dalhousie society?”

ND now, the actual verbal approach. Several methods are
acceptable. Others we mention
only to condemn. (1) The “guess
who?” beginning. This definitely
lacks subtlety, and has rightfully
fallen into» general
both sides. (2)
ments on the weather—‘‘My, isn’t
this springlike weather we’re haying! And the Indians at Shubenacadie say we're going to have very
little snow!”

disfavour on
The usual com
“By the way, what
are you doing Friday night?” etc.,
etc. Here we have pretty stock
stuff, but it may do in .a pinch.
(3) A different tack is adopted in
the following: “Shall I see you at
the Med Ball Friday night?” If the
reply is “Yes, by all means,” then
you may gradually taper the conversation down to an end, and get
busy on another number. If the
reply is: “No, not unless you take
me!” then you have the equivalent
of the green light in traffic. This
form is partcularly suitable from
the masculine point of view, for the
question is so worded as to avoid
damage to his ego in case of refusal. She unwittingly says no in
a nice sort of way. (4) This is
the sort of thing you say if you’re
feeling on top of the world and
fairly sure of a good reception:
“Let’s you and I go to the Med Ball
Friday night.” This has the merit
of being fairly original, and may
strike some ‘girls as indicative of a
forceful personality.

At the moment, we have no more
to say on the subject.

Pins and. .

 

. Pick -u ps

_ (It is to be understood that all characters listed below are
entirely fictitious and any similarity to anyone, living or dead, is

purely coincidental.

Therefore, any persons desirous of sueing

for libel have no grounds whatsoever.)

. ..One little elusive devil in
particular, bearing the initials “J.

L. M.” inseribed thusly upon its

dorsal surface, and which has been
missing for the past six weeks, has
found its weary way back to the
manly (?) chest of its owner, the
above John Lauch — MacLellan
however was last seen, axe in hand,
chasing Chaplin Maddin down
Robie St. with cries of “trigamist!”
renting the air—“be not discosolate, the Lauch,” said Harmony,
who even invaded the citadel of the
enemy Sat. night to help J. L.
drown his sorrows—in music of
course!

The old master himself,
Deek Grant, likewise has been having much trouble—lately Deek took
a recount on his daisy, and with
“she loves me, she loves me not,
she ete.” Grant found the extra
petal and placed the much batted
about ring back on Kay’s finger
... Those two long and short sidekicks from Phi Rho, Milton and
Earle, recently bid their pins, absent for a lengthy period, a welcome or not so welcome “hello”.
“To heck (?) with her” says short
Gordie, but long Harvie took a
deep breath (of .Newfoundland air)
and sailed in after more—The pin

The MED BALL

and to branch out a bit from his
proverbial rut of yesteryear—
which he has done with much
gusto, we might coyly add—still
Joanie doesn’t do too badly—now
that the Acadia ground hockey
team is not around... gee, what
heel! ... and then speaking of Acadia, the pangs of Nostalgia are too
much for Chambers and Morton,
for their periodic trips to their
Alma Mater (old) are much in
evidence . . . Al Saunders trucks
off to Acadia too, every so often,
but what kind of pangs he has, we
can’t say, for he never ever went to
Acadia!

... Jimmie MacDonald was seen
making out his 1946 operator’s
license (automobile, that is!) the
other day in the government building, (the other Govt. Bldg., not
the N. S. L. C.!), so apparently he
and Patricia are in there pitching
again—

. . . But in leaving, pray, pray
tell girls, what gives about this boy
Sutherland ?—We, his brother students begin to wonder when we
hear tales about them hiring a
special secretary at Phi Rho to
handle all Larry’s telephone calls
—he sure has the girls at Shiffer’s
Hollow under his thumb—but then

a

 

 

WwW

,

Tonight -- Nova Scotian Hotel

Jerry Naugler’s Orchestra

however still hangs in the aforesaid breeze! ... But even then the
Monk is having trouble these days,
for his red-haired competitor,
Billie Mingo, under the eyes of the
enemy stole away the fair-haired
Fay McL. and dated her up for
the Med brawl—tsk, tsk, such
crust!

But then, all is not bad news, for

‘apparently some affairs can run

smooth. (*Eds. note—time of
script—10:17 Sun. Jan. 13)—One
is most apt to see at most any of
the social functions Bruce Miller
and Miss Cunning Itchybald cavorting around—watch out Brucie,
people will say!.. .. And then
again, Al Deacon, with no regard
for the 25% jewelry tax, plunked
the ring on the dainty digit of his
Muriel—

*

N-the meanwhile the Phi Chi

boys don’t stray far from the
hospital district—either day or
night—and in fact seem to have
the nursing situation well covered!
With operators like Donnie Brennan around however; one can
imagine how . .. More than Phi
Chi boys frequent the Nurses Residence it is said, for that terrible
twosome, Stevie and Neman were
running wild during the past holiday. Johnnie MacCormack it seems
however has found green fields
even closer home—yes, even as
close as the ZOO TOO Lab!

... Then “Dirty Dave” Arch has
found time to tear himself from the
terrors of the horrid’ fourth year

 

Dancing 9-1

we wonder if the contrary is not
true aw heck Larry, we’re
just jealous, that’s all!

Conference -(Continued

(6) A membership fee of $1 was
agreed upon.

(7) It was decided that the
chairman of the three permanent
committees would become a member of the executive.

(8) Meetings to be helti on the
first Thursday of every month in
the Chemistry theatre at 7.30 p.m.
were agreed upon.

Following a meeting of the executive, held on the 13th, a few ideas
were scouted.

(a) That the Junior Board of
Trade in Halifax be approached to
assist us in local matters, (chiefly
Housing problem),

(b) That the Canadian Legion
would be strongly supported by
our Association.

(c) That the three main committees should prepare questionnaires
to cover their departments. (These
will probably be given out to the
veteran when he comes to receive
his check. They are to be answered
fully with any suggestions included
and returned at once.) Special
eases will thus be given worthwhile
consideration.

(d) An effort to attain an office
for the Association is underway.

The general committee will have
its hands full in locating full time
or part time employment for its
veterans. Please give these questionnaires your fullest attention.

 

 

 

Meds in Athletics

@® THE STORY of Medieine’s

contribution to sport on the

campus could be completed with a mere resume of the efforts
of the participants. Yet, while we look with pride on those
who have been our representatives, we cannot help criticizing
a System under which the potentialities we have on hand so
often wither on the vine. The fact that Medicine is a postgraduate course, or at least presupposes a pre-medical education, signifies that the greater proportion of its members are
gleaned from the ranks of other universities, from Newfound
land in the east to Vancouver in the west.

Many of these

men come to Dalhousie with previous athletic experience, only
to become imbued with the idea that a felt “D” is small consolation for failing first year, and that Medicine is a jealous

master, who brooks no rivals.
This is not to say that we do not
hold with the adage of “first things
first.” But, as our new president
has put it in his opening speech to
the students, after due respect to
our studies, we should “endeavour
to play our part as individuals in
the general program of student
activities. While the individaul
student in medicine is primarily to
blame for his lack of interest in
sports at Dal, too often his decision
is influenced by the current belief
that some members of our own
faculty openly discourage participation in major sports. So the
cleats are hung in the closet, the
sneakers are sent home to the
younger brother, and athletics to
the average student is only a subheading in the file of memories.

ee a few years of operat
ing at capacity due to a postwar influx, registration at Dalhousie will begin to dwindle, Then,
once again, we will compete with
our sister universities for young
men and women seeking an education. To an athletic-minded high
school lad, choosing a university
will not rest wholly with a consideration of its buildings or its professors, but also with its record
on the athletic field. In preparation for this future and in the interests of a better Dalhousie, we
must begin to build an athletic-conscious campus; we must gain the
full co-operation of the faculties
of medicine and law; we must correct the erroneous impression so
evident in medicine that sports
should be left to the undergraduates.

Turning to bouquets, we note
that this years’ senior rugby team
had our consistent respresentative
from the med campus—darkhaired
Irish Key Carton, hard fighting
half Allen and Epstein, who played
several senior games were both
valuable members of the scrum.
Remembering when two years ago
medicine boasted of eight members
including captain on first team,
we have hopes that next year will
find many former players, as well
as many from interfaculty ranks,
reporting for senior practise.

To the basketball squads this
year we have contributed athletic
Carl Giffen, captain and stellar
rearguard and bespectacled Bruce
“Doc” Morton, former Acadia forward. In intermediate ranks,
Gordie Algie, after last year’s experience, is turning in his usual

A Friday Night Dance

fine performance on guard.

With the hockey season just beginning, our prospects are those of
last years interfaculty team; such
men as Moreside, Deacon, Cox,
MacDonald, would certainly be an
asset to the ice sextette.

N the realm of tennis, P. E. I.’s

Bill Moreside claims top honors
having played a leading role in
Dal’s court triumph over Mount
A. which gave them last year’s
championship.

Descending, or perhaps rather
from the point of view of interest,
ascending to interfaculty medicine
composed nearly always of former
stars of other colleges: their preference may be described as partly
temporal, partly due to ineligibility.

The fottball squad emerged, by
virtue of a final tie with engineers,
unbeaten during the schedule, and
with a slight margin as regards:
points. It is unfortunate that
lateness of the season prevented a
play-off with the engineers, and
no champion was declared. The
meds look forward, however, to
capturing next year the title which
time denied them in 1945. A challenge game against varsity was
won by the latter, their condition
and co-operation being more than
a match for the experience yet individualism of the meds. Stalwarts
of the team were: Grant, Epstein,
Saunders, Favretto, Babeock, Kirkpatrick, Shears, Karrel, Foster,
forwards; Roy, Bob MacDonald,
MacLennan, halves; Jim MacD.,
Giffin, Deaeon, Connoly, Thorpe,

>

Giberson, three quarters: and
Theriault, fullback.
With approximately the same

team which last year lost out in the
final game for championship, the
interfaculty squad has already met
several setbacks this year. It is
hoped. that, with further practise
the team will once again gain its:
rightful place near the top. Those:
to whom credit for last years:
honors and this year’s hope is due:
are: Deacon, Stevenson, Darcy,
Sears, MacKenzie, Ashlee, Roy,
MacLennan, forwards; Moffatt,
Titus, Epstein, Cox, Foster, Algie,
guards.

While interfaculty hockey has
not yet begun, a word of praise for
last years champions is not out of
order. Emerging on top after fiv
starts, they defeated the engineers in a two-game, total goal
series for the championship. Credit

(Continued on page 4)

 

 
    

ie!
er es

J q
4 . a fh
A

ed
+

   

vr
i?

va,
oe oer
C A+.

at

 

Oe a

=

Fr
§

 

ee

MED SUPPLEMENT

 

 

And Two Scoops, Please, Shirley!'. . .
I, |

 

 

   

The Med Society

@ WHAT IS THE MATTER with our Medical Society? Your
executive has done everything it can dream up to try to get
you members out to a few meetings to support the society and
its functions. As it stands at present there are about a dozen
or so active members, and no more, who are really active and
for the amount of work and planning that has to be done by
just these few members it is not fair to assume that their
views express the views of one hundred and fifty odd members
who purchase membership tickets each year.

For some of you that is about the only time we see you
at all. That and election time, when the only reason many of
you come is to try to vote down your rival fraternity or
campus. I don’t say that this rivalry is not a good thing, but
what I do say is that what is the good of getting your own
candidate into office if you are not going to support him after
putting him there? That isn’t fair, is it? Yet that is
exactly what many of you have been doing in the past few
years. The Medical Society is on the brink of disaster unless

non-attendinge members choose to do something about it.

The Medical Society in days gone
by was a society well supported
and yery strong on this campus.
A society where we embryo doctors
met each other and got to know
each other and discussed our common problems. As it is now many
of us will graduate (we hope)
without even knowing many of the
fellows we were in medical school
with. That certainly is not good
and if there is any way to correct
things like this, we are open to

_ Suggestions. Surely you can spare

one night a month to come and
take part in the business of the
society and listen to the speakers
and see the films we go to all the
trouble of geeting here for your
benefit. If you are not satisfied
with the activities of the society
as they are being run, why don’t
you at least come and tell us so?
That is what the meetings are for.
For the expression of medical students’ views and ideas and to give
us a chance to meet each other. It
may mean a lot to you someday to
know the guy who’s practising next
to you. It is very disheartening
to your executive committee to go
to all the trouble of engaging a
speaker and then on the night of
his address to find only forty or so,
out of a possible one hundred and
fifty members, present. It’s even
worse when a meeting is-called to
find.a mere fourteen present.

If you’ve read this far in this
epistle, I take it you must have at
least some interest left in the
medical society so I suggest that
you all make a 1946 resolution to
attend the meetings of the society
in future and begin right now to
give it your full support, for if
you don’t, there will be no medical
society much longer. Your executive committee have discussed this
matter and have decided that it is
no good trying to carry on any
longer with just the few active
members who attend, The next few
meetings will decide the issue.

Witte on the subject of the next
few meetings, here are some
of the things that are lined up at

present. The first big feature is,.

of course, the Medical Society banquet and Ball being held to-night
at the Nova Scotian Hotel. Dr.
Thomas M. Dadson, of Acadia
University, is to be the guest
speaker at the banquet and his

humor is well known to many of
you. Then there are a series of
films scheduled (for dates of showings watch your bulletin boards in
the Forrest Building and in the
Health Centre and in the Pathology Building). Also there will be
a meeting with a well known
speaker on some subject of interest
to us all. There will be some business conducted at these meetings
concerning our new constitution;
the CAMSI question; the Journal,
which we are at present trying to
revive and many other vital and
interesting topics for us medical
students. Don’t forget that elections are not so very far off and
that we have a reputation to uphold.

We would like particularly to get
a lot more active support from the
first and second year classes, for
if the medical society is to continue
in existence it is to you junior
classes that the task of keeping it
going and giving it strength and
leadership will fall in future years.

T IS extremely sad that this

article has to appear in the tone
that it does but your executive
feels that it is now or never and,
consequently, we are laying the
society at your feet. It’s now
yours either to pick it up and make
it your own or put it away forever, Which is it going to be?

Meds in Athletics 
Continued from page three)
to Deaoen, Moreside, Shaw, Chambers, Roy, Drysdale, Wilson, forwards; Cox, Allen, Auld, defence;
and Thorpe, goal. 1946 will see a
strong team iced with an attempt
to repeat their past record.

FINAL round-up indicates
that the faculty of medicine,
which comprises at present slightly
over ten per cent of the total student enrolment, has provided a
nucleus for most of the major
teams and has done much to make
the interfaculty league a success.
In future we hope that our present
potentialities may bud and blossom
without the criticizing eye of a
dubious faculty and medicine may
be able to make an even greater
contribution toward Dalhousie’s
coming supremacy in intercollegiate sport circles,

 

7

EDITORIAL

The Role of Medicine at Dal

[tt IS NOT without some deference that we approach the

matter of composing an editorial for this Med Edition of the
Gazette for 1945-46. Frequently it is said that medical students
talk of only two things—shop, and the opposite sex. It is said,
too, that students in medicine—though certainly no more than
in the case of purely scientific and technical pursuits — are restricted, due either to lack of time or lack of interest, to a
comparatively small portion of that culture which our civilization has laid bare to the inquiring minds of generation upon
generation. It is said, indeed, that the great treasures of
literature, art and music which through the centuries have
accrued to our benefit, are now cast like the proverbial pearls
before swine. We cannot deny that students in professional
and technical courses do exhibit this trend, nor that they do
tend to deviate from the search for intellectual satiation
rightly or wrongly begun in high school. It is not within the
compass of this article to develop the matter any further. In
this edition, we aim chiefly to let students at Dalhousie know
how Medicine lives—-how it works, and how it plays.

For some years, the student-at-large in Dalhousie has come
to look upon Medicine as a more or less colourless aggregation
of industrious individuals who spend seven or more years at
Dalhousie and depart with an M.D.—their names having been,
during that time, nothing but items within the blue covers of
the roll book (a time-honoured institution, the use of which
now shows a gratifying decline). There was, of course, notable
exceptions—and these at times may have enlarged their extracurricular activities at the expense of academic standing. The
notoriety achieved by this unfortunate misconception is out of
all proportion to the truth. Studies, admittedly, occupy a large
first place. In probably no other course is the individual student required to assimilate and to retain such factual data,

 

and in such quantity, as in Medicine. Nevertheless, in proportion to her numbers—approximately 13% of the entire
student body at Dalhousie, it is our contention that Medicine
does bear its share of the extracurricular burden.. In Interfactulty Sport, which seems to be in the midst of a revival—
Medicine is able to enter strong teams in football, basketball,
hockey and indoor softball. Socially, Medicine holds its own.
The Med Ball, of which you will undoubtedly see other mention in this issue, is now generally conceded to be Dalhousie’s
best. The confines of Shirreff Hall, invitation to which is
generally deemed a criterion of social acceptability, are frequently graced with Medical faces. Medical talent is well
represented in the newly-organized Dalhousie orchestra. Medicine does turn out to support Varsity teams in action—at once
we can think of at least three cheerleaders—all from Medicine.
True, there wern’t many cheers, but that wasn’t the fault of
the cheerleaders.

It is perhaps in the realm of campus politics that Medicine
reaches the zenith of its powers. The student new to Dalhousie may find it difficult to appreciate the truth expressed
in the perennial election slogan “As Medicine goes, so goes
Dalhousie.” He considers it indeed remarkable that Medicine
seems to vote en bloc for its candidate. It would be well to
state here a primary tenet of Medicine with reference to
student elections: No man is nominated for a responsible position in the Council of Students unless he is capable and fully
qualified. Obviously, Medicine could ill afford to put up a
poor candidate.

HE expression “College spirit’ has been much maligned—

and never satisfactorily defined. I t is not our purpose to
do either. Apropos the subject, however, we would mention
factors which determine Medicine’s contribution to this intangible something. The cosmopolitan nature of the Medical
Student Body is perhaps not fully appreciated. Of the total
of approximately one hundred and sixty, the great majority of
students are drawn from the Maritimes. This is quite fitting,
and in accordance with President Kerr’s inaugural statement,
in which he rated among Dalhousie’s primary functions its
service to the Maritime community in particular. It will
readily be seen, however, that home addresses in Medicine,
include such names as Toronto, Vancouver, Washington, D.C.,
and Jamaica, B.W.I. Furthermore, of the fifty students admitted into first year medicine, roughly 20-30% have entered
directly from Dalhousie. The remainder have come from other
institutions in the Maritimes—institutions where they specialize in this thing called college spirit. The transition to
Dalhousie is not always accomplished with ease, and strong
remnants of old school ties may be present for a year or two.
It is not for us to say where the fault lies, but to emphasize
the existence of a fact. °

 

De Facultate

@ CHANGES were noted this year in the Department of
Pharmacology. Mr. and Mrs. M. K. MacPhail and family have
left to take up residence in the United States, where Dr. MacPhail has accepted a position with a chemical firm. It will be
recalled that Dr. MacPhail was one of the first to co-operate
with the student body in the matter of obtaining standardized
mimeographed notes for several courses. Medicine appreciated
the thoughtfulness of Dr. and Mrs. MacPhail in frequently
inviting members of the senior class to a social afternoon at

January 18, 1946

their home.

To fill vacancies in the department, Dr. Whillans and Dr. Aldous
have come to Dalhousie. Reports
from the third year boys indicate
that the newcomers have got off
to an excellent start.

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Saunders
have left for the Sunny South. Dr.
Saunders has been granted a year’s
leave of absence from the Anatomy
department. Medical students will
join in wishing him a complete recovery of good health.

We learn that our very charming and efficient librarian, Mrs.
Cornell, is shortly to leave us,
having accepted a position with
the Banting Institute in Toronto.
Medicine will long remember her
as the guiding spirit behind a library of which Dalhousie may well
be proud. In her new location,
we would wish her every happiness.

Medicine and law will join in
welcoming to Dalhousie Mr. and
Mrs. Milner. While Mr. Milner
elucidates the finer points of legal
procedure to the gentlemen on the
north side of Forrest, Mrs. Milner
with equal proficiency helps a first
or second year Med out of the
tangles of wire and apparatus
which one associates with Physiology.

* * #
T this time, it would not be
amiss to mention the consistently good work of two gentlemen
whose duties, while not spectacular,
are none the less essential to the

 

In general, however, this much
seems apaprent—the best students
(in the broadest sense) who come
to us from abroad almost invariably take their place with the best
who have begun at Dalhousie, in
every field of student activity. If
a man was an introverted bookworm at Acadia, he usually remains one at Dalhousie, and fails
to make his full contribution, to
student life—and ultimately, to his
own,

 

We in Medicine are pleased to
note the return to the Faculty of
servicemen who have resumed a
career interrupted by war; equally
welcome are those entering Medicine for the first time. Their task
is not easy, and it is the more gratifying to observe the overall success
which attended their efforts at
Christmastime. It is good, too,
that simultaneously with their return seems to have come a general
upsurge of student activity
throughout the University. We
are minded to look forward to a
Golden Era at Dalhousie, such as
not even our most ardent alumnus
could have conceived.

running of a professional school.
We refer to Mr. Ellis and Mr. MacLeod. Anatomy students in particular have often mentioned the
excellent organization of the Anatomy department. In no small part
does an organization require the
services of an efficient and dependable technician—and certainly that
description may be applied without
reservation to Mr. Ellis. Incidentally, if we may judge from comments made at the Refresher
Course in 1944, our anatomy department compares favourably with
any in Canada. Mr. MacLeod will
always be associated in the minds
of medical students with their first
two years, spent largely in the Forrest building. He is the sort of
man who can probably come up to
you and tell you that he knew your
parents when they attended Dal.
At such times, you cannot but wonder at what opinions he is forming
of the second generation, Incidentally, his support of the rival
faction in last year’s election was
due, as he explains, to his desire
to make the contest more even than
it would otherwise have been.

..To Dr. Atlee, a word of acknowledgment for his kindness in making available to the ears of interested students the recorded musical treasures, of which he has an
excellent collection.

To Dr. Dyer; our belated congratulations upon his marriage,
late in December, at Hamilton,
Ontario.

FEW alumni notes, for your

information: Drs, Henry Reardon and Jack Woodbury have set
up practice in the city. Bernie
Graham, married last fall, and now
at the Montreal General doing
post-graduate work. George Gass
and Clarence Pottle in RCAMC, and
each getting off to a good family

start. Doug Miller and Claude
Keays, laid low by the Lindsay
bacillus, now recovering nicely.

Marty Macdonald back on his feet
following a severe bout of pneumonia at Christmastime. P. P.
obliged once again to leave his beloved Cape Breton, as the Army
meves him to Borden. Bill and
Jean Morse, Ken and Ann Mackinnon sampling the manifestations
of culture as “Canada” knows it.

Adelaide Flemming and Jean
Macdonald now doing post-grad at
the Montreal General, we are told,
The following, now in the RCAMC,
have returned to the old stampingground: Max Pierce, Les Stewart,
Murray Davis, Carol Greene, Jim
Gough (a daddy), and Don Graham
—in a similar category.

 

The Ten (?) - Minute Break...

 

 

sl

ye

a

|

.

5

al
+

 
s
}

 

 

 

 

GAZETTE...

 

 

    

T:s0 2SQUARE

@® THE PINBALL busting episode
reported last week among the
Dartmouth crew has a bad sequel
this week. Td date the mainsprings of four watched have been
found bent into pretzel shapes; further results are forthcoming.

The Engineer’s edition of the
bachelor’s club, under the guidance
of Waterfield has been re-organized. Chas. Smith’s officiation for
membership was turned down due
to the troubled state of his correspondence, letters going out every
day to two girls who not only live
in the same town, but are next
deor neighbors.

It won’t be long now before
Leverman and Lamoont start suing the Electrical Commission. It
seems that someone is always turning the lights on at the wrong time.

The Drafting Room Philosophical Society has found the reason
for Bell taking the job as assistant
manager of the hockey team. The
first trip is to Mount A.

Overheard at the Hall:

Lew, “See, I told you she was
all right, didn’t I?”

 

 

Bryce, “Yeah, but remember
what happened at Truro.”
Reminder:

Breathes there a man with so

much gall

Who hasn’t said when the per
mit’s fall

I’m saving this for the Boiler
maker’s Ball.
ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“WHY GIRLS LEAVE HOME”
“THREE ON A TRAIL”

 

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“SCOTLAND YARD
INVESTIGATOR”
“ROUGH RIDERS OF
CHEYENNE”

JERRY NAUGLER’S
ORCHESTRA

123 Willow Street
Call 4-9673

 

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
e

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

  
   
   
       
         
      
    

 

A

EATON’S! ..

popular plain shades.

#T. EA

NECKWEAR

Make Your Selections at EATON’S!

GRAND array of men’s ties on display at
Types to suit practically all
tastes featured in the range—Stripes, dots, novelty

figured patterns galore;
Each 1,00 to 3.50.

Men’s Wear Department—Main Floor

ATON C°

RITIM

 

qe,

ina i

Y =O0

a ¥
Swe 7

O lucky I!

(1) Another chance with life to
vie! has been the theme song of
many males who will be lucky
enough to be escorted out M.S.M.
Week (Males Save Money.)

(2) Atention all girls!!! Dunlop is available once again, so come
on co-eds and give the guy a break.
After all, he isn’t that bad... an
besides, Knowsey is getting tired
of seeing Blair adorn the stag line.

(3) Mike Waterfield has been
adopted as 1946 pin-up boy by the
residents of Shirreff Hall (and
there were others in the competition, too). For further information see the Shirreff Hall Girls and
Mr. Waterfield ... And we always
thought you were so modest, Mike.

(4) Candy is dandy
But likker is quicker.”
has been adopted by many, but as
Hal Thompson says “Xmas celebrations only occur three or four
limes a year.”

JBS

  
   

 

Re

  

pe

© happy me!

a.

(5) The elusive amoeba has
again escaped from the feminine
clutches. You just can’t “board
him up.”

(6) The Delta Gamma informs
Knowsey that several indirect members did not turn up at the meeting
last Thursday. Such indirect members include the wearers of D.G.
pins as Ed Rogers, King Churchill,
Pin-up Mike and Cyril Morgan. If
this non-representation is continued
Delta. Gamma Executive will be
forced to take action by the removing of pins.

(7) Alex MacDonald has finally
achieved something after his long,
frequent hours spent in the alcove.
Congrats, Lois and Alex . . . Also
Kay Cox was successful with the
Army over the holidays. Nice
work.
~ (8) Knowsey was a bit behind
times last weck (per usual) for the
news about Lilo and Burnie was
somewhat stale, but I am happy to
see that you have both found other
interests.

Knowsey leaves you this week
with the parting message—“Don’t
be too hard on the piggy bank.”

MEN’S

    

including the always

  
  
 
 
  
 

MES LIM@TEO

    
  
  

us
oie
a. F
Be Oo,
NX aS 
A "DISTINCTLY CANADIAN”
DESIGN

p

|
AC

|

re *
| <
a

.

 

iS ;

Ge = WINDSOR Tene
3/— Scura \ BIN
am

Regional Loyalty Displayed
In Debate on National Flag

by J. CRICKET McGOSH
@® McGOSH HAS just witnessed a gruelling test of Canadian

unity.

Through the kind permission of his pedagogue, G.

Laffyville, your observer was granted “leave of absence’ to
visit the Seat of Civilization (Ottawa) and prepare a series of

articles for the Ecum Secum “Enterprise” on

the newly
formed Senate Flag-Finding Board (apologies to Mr. Truman).

Flag suggestions came thick and
fast with regional bias tending to
dominate proceedings, Confederation seemed a long way off as these
provincially - conscious legislators
groped about hopelessly for a “‘distinetly Canadian” design.

Salmon and Beaver Compete

“Let’s sacrifice our sectional interests for a purely national flag
symbolic of our nation’s oneness,”
purred a paunchy B.C.er with apparent sincerity. “I would suggest
a B.C. beaver chewing a Gaspe
salmon garnished with Fleur-deLys.” However, Quebecers objected strongly on the grounds that it
would have to be a Quebec beaver
masticating a B.C. salmon.

“But surely, gentlemen,” pleaded
MecGosh, “you cannot possibly
ascribe regional identities to the
beaver and salmon. Why not give
the design a try?” But both
groups registered a negative reaction and succeeded in convincing
your chronicler that the Pacific
“Cohoe” has a heavier left fin than
its Quebec counterpart while the
B.C. beaver is inclined to be crosseyed and lacks the cavernous nasal
passages of its Quebec cousin.

A Manitoban proposed a unique
symbol—namely, a grain of Prairie
wheat being shot from a flagdraped cannon as a “Post-Toastie.”

“But with what flag shall we
drape the gun?”

“The Union Jack, naturally.”

“. . Ah, so you’re trying to
sabotage the Fleur-de-Lys!” And
so the battle raged.

“Gentlemen, I have it!” sereamed
MecGosh by way of compromise.
“Why not hang one flag on the
butt, t’other on the barrel?” The
motion was defeated in due course.

Suggests Walrus Emblem

“What cou ldbe more National
than the design of a beaver gazing
expectantly at a pile of desirable
P.E.I. potatoes,” said a doddering
oldster from The Island, but this
was hastily vetoed by a declaration
of Eskimoes who displayed a completely white flag (a Rinso-dipped
pillow-slip) as symbolic of the vast
Arctie ice-floes. This idea was acceptable to some, provided a walrus
with red, white and blue teeth could
be skewered to the flag-staff to
represent our origins in the Empah.
Others insisted the walrus should
be allowed to pick at his “red, white

 

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“MEET ME IN ST LOUIS”
Judy Garland
Margaret O’Brien - Mary Astor

 

Thusrday - Friday - Saturday

“ENTER ARSENE LUPIN”
with —— Korvin

OPIFTH "CH. AIR”
with
Fred Allen, Don Ameche,
Jack Benny

 

and blue teeth” with a sprig of
Fleur-de-Lys.

Iinal gesture was the suggestion
of a loyal Nova Scotian delegate
(E. Windsor Scuta of Hants Co.)
for a flag design of crossed beer
bottles mounted on a moose head
as typifying the “national” industry. This motion was defeated as
the senators (with controlling interests in the Bacchie produce,
couldn’t agree on the labels and
trade-marks to be used.

And so the hours rolled by in
weary Succession and your chron
-icler, dazed and desperate, neared

the borders of Insanity (MeGosh
gets there on a “press pass’’).

After
Finally, a statement to the press
was aired during a momentary lull
in the tumult and shouting. “ :
Just say we are making splendid
progress,” grinned the chairman,
“in an atmosphere of cooperation
and good-will. Our decisions will
be to the mutual advantage of both
English” and French Canadians.”

You, Gaston

“T demand you reverse the order”

shouted a member of the latter
group. But your observer had disappeared.

McGosh was babbling madly about
“coup d’etats.” He would expose
the whole political set-up and advocate revolution in his article for
the Ecum Secum - “Enterprise.”
But, alas, this would be impossible.
For MecGosh recalled sadly the
The Enterprise’s publisher, having
struck gold in the Yukon last summer, had himself been elevated to
senatorial rank.

V; WY pl iat? While Y

(G

 

* / » a

Sere. .
M been Ut We

  
  

‘ ati oy
jc i es Se aes eed lan ae te

     
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
     
  
      
     
  
 
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
    
  
   
       
   
 
    
       
     
     
  
  
     
    
 
  
 
  
    
   
   
    
  
     
   
      
     
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
     
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

  

° heat Hacker es
MED and LAV

® WITH THE advent of 1946, @ AFTER a very pleasa:
medical students generally will spent for the most part in
pause for a moment to look back of Morpheus and |
upon the term that is ended—in lawyers are once again
Some cases, to note departments at the shrine of Maitlan and,
that require strengthening — and and some of the less bright
to look forward to extracurricular of the legal universe, If activities which are annually spon- or if we don’t like, we
sored by Medicine at this time, off and worship from afar
Commenting upon the first look, we Along the more pros
note with some gratification that Tom Feeney got a vote of
the results in general have been dence from the Law Socie:
good, and that our ex-servicemen in spite of Alex Hart’s Pp
have maintained the general trend, tions the society voted that
and indeed have accentuated it with acting intra vires when he |
several distinctions. The second his capacity of president.
look focuses upon Friday, January
18th. The Med Ball requires no
comment. The banquet is an innovation, at least in our time. To
clear up any doubts which may be
present in medical minds, we would
repeat that dress at the banquet
is optional, that it begins at 6 p.m.
and will end in lots of time to allow the boys to proceed to the Ball
on schedule. The cost is one dollar
($1.00) and you'll certainly get
your money’s worth if you attend.

(Should you chance to east your
heavy-laden eyes upon the special
Med page in this issue, we would
commend to your attention in particular President Titus’ remarks
on the matter of the Medical Society. In a plain-spoken resume of
the situation, Mr. President pulls
no punches. His words are indeed
food for thought—the time for irrelevant pleasantries is now past,
and in this edition it is not out of
place to challenge the medical student body, either to build and to
support a living Medical Society, or
to reject it altogether.

A few names which you ‘may
know—Jim Campbell appears to
have forsaken the depths of surgieal pathology in favor of a feminine interest at the V.G. This

 

The Law Basketball. uae:
considerably weakened. by the
motion of Ed Homey ba

first place
league.
with commerce, but we sea
the commerce women, its ‘

The Munro Room or new
common room is open and while :
furniture is as sparse as the ple
are elaborate, we feel that in V
short time some of the plans 1
become realities. As a comm
room we still have one of the b
on the campus, however, For stu-—
dents who work as hard as se : .

make this matter pubtigs a
with approval that the fi
Archibald team is very much |
Colquhoun—his friends ‘nov
him Jamie—remains as full o: of
prises as ever. The Clinie’s loss
the Infirmary’s gain is
Finally, a must on your p pr
—the annual see fy battle | |

matter, indeed, has been rumoured
for some time now, and it was only

Pa a

CAPITOL

Friday - Saturday
January 18-19

“Rita «:

with
RAY MILLAND
PAULETTE GODDARD

 

 

Monday - Saturday
January 21-26

“WEEKEND AT
THE WALDORF”

with
GINGER ROGERS
LANA TURNER
VAN JOHNSON
WALTER PIDGEON

 


Cp

Ut
=.

apie lee

ey ih ii a 7

it Fs te ee ene
5 a etiam

  
    
 


ah mv inhi as 2 oan OS
 

= a,

av

”

“@ OUR APOLOGIES TO ALL!!!

by ALEC FARQUHAR

SSS OS eS

 

Last week we announced

that there would be a journey to Mount Allison on Saturday,

January 26, but failed to remember that the proposal was
subject to the ratification of the Students’ Council.

On Wed
nesday last, at the monthly Council meeting, up came the prosal of the trip and almost simultaneously up went the hands

in mad protest against the idea.
Reasons: (1) The teams are making enough trips already
in connection with the Intercollegiate League and are bound

by entry into the league to take them.

(2) The games at Mt.

Allison were to be of an exhibition nature only and the general
opinion of the Council was that it would be a mere “pleasure

trip” for the participants.

money, anyway.
Bleachers For Tournament

Then there was the question of

‘the bleachers for the gymnasium.
“Our busy D.A.A.C. president, Don

Harris, is the chief instigator of a
plan which will bring the majority
of the Maritime universities to Dalhousie on March 15th and 16th for
a basketball tournament which we
think should serve three purposes:
It will make for better and close=
relations among Maritime colleges,
it will stimulate interest in the
game of basketball, both on this
eampus and throughout the city,
and also should be a drawing card
by which the Students’ Council
should be a few pennies richer.

After such an exhaustive premise
let’s get to the point—Mr. Harris
believes that in order to seat a
large crowd properly, the chairs
are inadequate—bleachers are necessary. To get such bleachers built
will take an amount hovering
around $750. Mr. Harris claims
that they can be used for years afterward for any athletic functions
taking place at the gym.

Lumber Poor Quality

But our rational Students’ Council weighed the pros and cons. The
eons (which if they are followed

 

SeOteihn anes
PO nt halt Kaninbe: on

“pores.
- eee

Shannan ie 5

     
   
    

Bee tra

é : -FAVO res

eae? oe ae eS ae

: Fs YOU'LL PASS ALL
he “YOUR TESTS

r ‘WITH HONOURS!

we
O
RING. RADC

COLORED PENCIL

$e

ee UE e TS

(8) The Council hasn’t got the
Result: No trip to Mount Allison.

through results with no money being spent) suggestion seemed very
sound—the lumber on the market
today is of very low quality, and
it is unlikely that bleachers made
of such material would last more
than three years without becoming
warped and thus unsuitable for
sitting. This proved a powerful
argument because again the general opinion was that it would be
unwise to get bleachers for the
gym,

Our condolence to the executive
of the D.A.A.C. Better luck next
time.

Law Topples Freshmen
To Tie With Commerce
For Loop Leadership

® SHOWING considerably more
power, Freshnien defeated the
slumping Meds, for their first victory, on Saturday night. The surging Engineers also overpowered
the weakened quintet,, to show
themselves as real contenders for
the hoop crown.

Law-Frosh (40-33)

Thursday’s game produced rather poor basketball with Frosh
having the edge throughout. The
first half saw the lawyers use their
height to advantage but the speed
of their younger opponents aided
them in capitalizing on many opportunities. However, Law managed to hold a slim lead; the frame
ending 19-14.

When Frosh came out for the
second period, they rushed the play
and sewed the lawyers up in their
own end. Allison MacKay was the
spearhead of the Frosh as he scored
basket after basket thus cutting
down the margin. With two
minutes to play the score was tied
at 31 apiece; but the hitherto dull
law team suddenly came to life
scoring five quick baskets to win
the game 40-33.

Frosh-Meds (37-20)

The game was all
Frosh from start to finish, the lifeless Meds only scoring an odd
basket here and there. Hannington
and Morrow stood out defensively,
while Ian Henderson took advantage of many breaks, to star offensively for eight points. There were

Commerce-Engineers (35-20)

In the first half the Millionnaires failed to check their men,
falling behind by a 19-9 ‘score.
Coming out for the final frame,
Commerce seemed determined to
whittle down that lead, but the
height of Bell and Chapman was
too much for them. The game was
won by Bell’s points alone, being
allowed to take three shots in a
row unhindered. B. Morrow was
the only one on the Commerce
team to hit the scoreboard in any
way, scoring six points, after being
laid up with a bad arm. Bell garnered 15 points, to lead his team
which seem destined for first place
and the championship.

Scores.

 

COOLEY SCORES!

Varsity Hoopsters Drop
36-26 Tilt to Air Force

Experience Beats Speed

@® SUFFERING their second defeat
to the guns of
defeated 36-—26, on Monday night.
up a good fight, the more exper
a ten point margin.

Tigers bowed

in scoring to win by

The flyers started fast,
making use of the “bucket” play
to baffle the completely.
Before the Bengals woke up the
Airmen had piled up a 1-0 lead.
However, the Dalhousians set their
sights and managed to bag a few
In ten minutes Air Force
had 14 fouls against them, but Dal
failed to capitalize on many of the
free throws. Yet the score was
tied 11-11, with only two minutes
remaining in the half, Baine scored,
followed by Waxman, thus Dal left
the floor with the 15-11
against them.

expertly

Tigers

score

The second frame produced worse
ball than the first. For a while it
was basket for basket, but with the
Airmen again using the “bucket”
play, they built up a small margin
to work on. With Ene minutes to
go the score was 30-23 and Dal
never came any closer than that,
the game ending 36-26.

The best player on the floor was
the Air Foree player, Waxman,
who foiled the Tigers time and time
again with his tricky plays. Giffen played a stellar game for Dal.
Farquhar leading the Bengal scorers with seven points. The high
scorer of the game was Baine with
14 points, who also played a tight
game and ranked next to Waxman

in play. Referee Bob Mitchell called 31 fouls in. the rather rough

contest, the Airmen making good
14 of their shots.
match will be Monday night when
the Tigers meet the high-ranking
Stadacona players:

the Air Force,

ienced Airmen had

The next senior

Dalhousie’s
when they were
Although the Bengals put
little trouhle

in two starts,

 

Peregrine Edges Dal
25-24 In Close Game

In an exhibition game last FriPeregrine Navy
iyed host to the Dalhousie

day night the
team pl:
Tigers basketball squad. For the
in two starts against
the Bengals the Tars garnered an
edge over their younger opponents
—this time by a 25-24 score. The
final score is indicative of the game
itself, oth teams held the lead
at various points in the tilt. At
half time the
18-10 but
final frame to lose by a hair. It

second time

Tigers were ahead
were outscored in the
was truly t Tigers’ best showing
to date
Dunlop, classy left forward,

and sharp-shooting Blair
found
the hoop fer fourteen points, fol
lowed by his running-mate Farquhar, who hooped four baskets.

In the first five minutes Dal built
point lead as Dunlop
shots from away out.
Giffin took the

up an eicht
made four
defensive honors
and time and again foiled the eager
attempts of the sailors to counter.
“Mac” MacDonald, a new addition
to the team, who has had past experience with Stadacona showed up
well.
Lineups:
2; Farquhar, 8;
Knight,

Dunlop, 14; E. Rogers,
MacDonald, Giffin,
Cooley, G.Hart, Blakeney,

Morton.

 

Lineup: C. Rogers 5, B. Knight,
C. Giffen 2, A. Farquhar 7, A. Hart
i, B. Dunlop 6, R. Cooley 2.

 

Delicious with mill as a bedtime snack—

  

MAR V.EN’'S +

crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

Mains

  
 

GRAHARNM

Cut ewes

DAL HOST TOR.CAF.,

AMERICAN AIR FORCE
IN WEEK-END GAMES

Dartmouth Tonight; Americans at 1 Tomorrow

@® DALHOUSIB’S HOOPSTERS f
Tonight (Friday) the Dartmouth R.C.A.F, seniors,

of them.

have a busy week-end ahead

who are currently leading the City Senior loop, will visit the

Dal Gym, and tomorrow an

American Air Force team from
Goose Bay will match wares against Varsity

basketballers.

The game is scheduled to start at 7 o’clock sharp, and the

Tigers

The Flyers boast a powerful
spuad headed by their ball-playing
padre, “Bishop” Lawrence. He is
ably supported by Baine, who has
proved himself the trickiest and
most feared scorer in the city cireuit to date. Joey Waxman, the
little man with the deadly shot,
will also put on a show for the fans
with his crowd-pleasing antics on
the court.

Yanks Potent

On Saturday the

even tougher

Tigers face
competition. At 1]
o’clock they will line up against an
American Air Force squad which
is making a tour and are eager for
all the contests they can get.
Nothing is known of their individuals, but the face that they whipped
the Dartmouth R.C.A.F. team 6019 gives some indication that they
have lots of potency.

Lineup for the games:

 

Centres

res

expect to have their strongest lineup out.
the first taste of action for the senior
if last year’s record is any indication, the
pretty hard quintet to conquer

It will be
s on their home floor and
Tigers would be a
on their own court.

Ralph Cooley, Eddie Rogers; forwards: Blair Dunlop, Alex Farquhar, Gordie Hart; guards: Carl

Giffin, Bob Knight.

VICTOR,

 

 
  

lo keep in touch with the
newest popular music, make
it a habit to visit

PHINNEYS
regularly as new
are released.

records

PHINNEY’S LIMITED

151 Barrington Street

 

 

VERY SATISFYING.
a -\ a Re LT

 

eres

& Suart-Look SMART

BRYLCREEM

   
  
 
 
    

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every mornin
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

g, BRYLCREEM will

 

 

a serene ere ee ee

S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL

— SOFT COAL

COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

*

HALIFAX, N. S.,

DARTMOUTH, N. S. |

 

 

 

eee ee

 
