  
   
    

 

       
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

=

i

Dh

me

; >
' ef
a ee
i :

GAT is
eat oy
ret y “

.

*
ay

e

1946-47 as the result of Tuesday’s voting.

AMERICA’S

 

‘Vor. VOL. LXXVII

| tne tlee Club, D.A.A.C. in 46-47

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 8, 1946

© GORDON HART and DAVE DOIG, both of the Law Class of ’48, were

named presidents of the Glee Club and the D. A. A.C. respectively for

Hart went in by acclamation

‘ana Doig was elected over Lew Bell and Deek Grant.

 

 

- Council Disciplines 11
Students; Adopt Stern

Policy;

Elect Frosh Rep.

FIRST ye, on the Council agenda, Wednesday night,
c the topic of student discipline in the Gym. The names of
eleven offenders were brought before the meeting, four of

these appearing in person

The matter of future Council policy on this subject was
introduced and a long discussion followed, with the result that

the following students were fined $2. 00 by the Council:

G.

Hart, A. Hartling, I Henderson, Z Graves, A. Farquhar, F.
Rogers, G. A. Smith, D. Menchions, ‘R. McQuinn, H. Pothier,

_E. Crowell.
Future Policy

The members of the council were
in favour of adopting a stern
policy towards such actions and
agreed upon a definite plan which
would be followed in future cases
of this type. It consisted of a six
point program which is as follows:

1. Any student caught breaking
the rules will be notified that his
or her name is being passed in to
the Students’ Council.

2. At the next meeting of the
Council, held after the offense has
been committed, the student will
be ordered to appear before the
meeting and will be given an opportunity to clear himself.

3. If the student cannot clear
himself of the charge or charges,
he will be fined $2.00. This fine is
for the first offense, regardless of
the number of individual charges.

4. For each additional offenses
the student will have to pay $3.00
fines.

5. Offenders will be given Ten
days, from the date of the meeting in which to settle up the fine.

6. If any student defies the
authority of the Council and refuses to pay the fine, or if the fine
is not paid within the ten-day
limit, the name of the student or
students will be turned’ over to
the Senate and the University will!
take action.

30 Gold D’s

The Awards Committee was next

to make its report and the chair
man, Dick Currie, announced that

the D.A.A.C. was awarding 5 gold
D’s, the Glee Club seven. Gazette
seven, and the Council seven honourary D’s. Sodales was awarding
v0, and D.G.A.C. two.

(Continued on Page Two)

   

     

aed
ps ‘en,

id's
2 e Ly 4h
ets As eae i’

 

Dal Debaters Triumph
Over St. Dunstan’s In

M.1.D.L. For ist Win

@® BY A 2-1 DECISION of the
judges, Dalhousie defeated St. Dunstan’s University in a scheduled intercollegiate debate at Charlottetown. Defending the negative of
the resolution “That Canada should
expand its present immigration
program on a selective basis’’, Dalhousie was represented by Mark
Yeoman (leader) and Don MacEachern. The St. Dunstan’s team
was compoed of James O’Keefe
(leader) and Francis Bolger.

The Island debaters, supporting
the resolution, called for more immigration to lessen the overhead
expense of running this country.
They referred to the vast areas of
this country, which are greatly in
need of population, and the fact
that with more people Canada
could consume more of the goods it
produces.

Negative
The negative pointed out that

» Canada only gets an undesirable

grade of immigrants who come
here because they were failures at
home. It was also shown that Canada will have enough to do to provide employment for its own people, least of all more immigrants.
The poor type of allegiance many
immigrants show, and the fact that
they displace so many of our own
workers, were also advanced as
reasons for no further increase in
immigration.

Judging the debate were M. A.
Farmer, K. C., R. A. Bell, M.L.A.,
and Prof. Wlanchied, vice-principle
of Prince of Wales College.

OLDEST

 

rt ee

f.

STUDENT PUBLICATION

No. 18

 

876 Exercise Tanchise

Approve Three Dollar increase in Fee For Pharos
STUDENT COUNCIL

President :
Law Med. Bng. Dent. Comm. Arts&Sc. Total
PIAVOY oko i ee as -101 16 86 2 42 252 499
PROG! Looe le viet 0 41. 80 0 12 93 136
BN Gi ke ails alas tack 1 148 uo 2 4 61 241
Vice-President
Blakeney ........ s & 0) 36 231 447
MacLellan........ 9152 4 £25 26 170 425
D.A.A.C.
President .
PPOPRC hans hk Pah, Ss Bee 1 13 84 196
ome Ate Gb 94 24 26 3 38 103 288
CR i bea es oO Ge | Be 6 52 147
Vice-President !
ig AN a ae 45 43 42 8 23 84 245
Eagneroot | 438." 16 46 35 4 14 iS 188
Morrow.......... 24 338 46 5 21 57 186
Secretary-Treasurer
Burgess 14 26 65 3 13 58 179
Creighton ....... 54 50 38 13 33 99 287
Quistey wo... oe! 22 58 4 oun gee 62 171
or ere 1. Residence ....... 321
mn 2. Swimming Pool... 255
DYUEY ss eee ees é; . Be NO oe ea cipsad. 176
MATER 5. 6, aie k aie thers Om hota i Be: Council. Ree.
Med. Senior Boy
pe RE ee 49 mi ie hy a ary 138
TURE oc has ce ew sae 98 “Pope Oe Eta eet ere 215
Kirkpatrick ......... 82 Senior Girl
Macleod 75) .6 6) ase 71 Terry MacLean ....... 187
Dent. OEE es a Pails 2 vavas 177
Burke (acclamation) Junior Boy
POISE oe obs Oke 80s 158
Commerce
Creighton §......%...5. 39 Roome ..... ee eta ale 198
CSG aca ott a grhitan ave eee 23Junior Girl
PMIWVRYED |. oes fsx) cac es 181
Eng. L WIR th RA Ub lk ky ow 175
Dunlop rete eee ee denne 101 Sophomore Rep. 7
Humphries .........-. eC Ne 136
Wade Se ie) sual Bere o1 a4 beanies 78 Rhude Fe Ades cas 290
3 increase
VEL oe ’ .. 517Med. Society
Avast! Gaieatis, 224 249Pres. McLennan (acclamation)
. Vice-Pres.
Delta Gamma MacLellan ......... 85 ‘
Pres. it “ ae Pie ia Aide tlhe ava bd at < 68
fay MacLean ....... uf :
PIP RBINIOM os yds ee 60
Terry MacLean ..... 51 pace 90
Sec.-Treas. Treas.
Cruickshanks ....... 73 i SCEPOOND. «55's a0. '9.058 49
MacKinnon ......... 63 POUNEMOT ERIN beg sitive oe 103

Munro Day Queen Chosen
Next Tues.; Professors
Of Dal Judge Pulchritude

® AMID THE SIGHING and grasping and cheering of an appreciative audience of students, thirteen
lovely Dalhousie co-eds, one by one,
will parade down an elevated ramp
on the stage next Tuesday, their
forms accentuated in a blaze of
brilliance from batteries of spotlights, their charms radiating forth
to an eager but somewhat abashed
slate of judges, chosen from the
faculty of the University, and commissioned to name the “Queen of
Munro Day, 1946.” The girls are
being sponsored by thirteen societies and fraternities on the campus, and a representative from each
will be on hand to point out the
outstanding features of his particular candidate to the judges and
other interested persons.

Announcement of Winner
The winner will be announced
shortly before the main dance of
the evening. After being crowned
with appropriate pomp and cere
4

mony, she will take the hand of the
chairman of the judges and lead
the first dance. The remaining
judges will follow with the other
contestants.

No definite word had been received at press time concerning the
nature of the costumes that will
be worn by the girls, but the
rumour that two piece bathing
suits will be in vogue has been
credited by the committee as having absolutely no foundation.

Contestants

The following is a list of the contestants with the organizations
sponsoring them: (their pictures
appear on an inside page) Fairley
Prouce, Arts & Science; Nancy
Wilson, Sigma Chi; Pat Jones, Dalhousie Gazette; Marion Withrow,

_ Phi Rho; Kay Whitehouse, Phi Chi;

Mary Robertson, Phi Delta Theta;
Bobby White, Law; Margot Ross,
Pine Hill; Kay MacLean, Commerce; Jean Leslie, Engineering;
(Continued from Page Two)

  

 
 

We wish to thank those who supported us so generously on Tuesday,

and more particularly the many who worked in our interest.
During the coming year we shall endeavour to merit the confidence
which you have placed in us, and request your continued co-operation

for the welfare of Dalhousie.

Pa

CLINT HAVEY.
AL BLAKENEY.

* oe

Law Makes Clean
Sweep at Polls

In Tues.

Contest

@ 876 DAL STUDENTS exercised their franchise at the polls
last Tuesday in the annual Student Council elections at Dal
housie.

The election resulted in a smashing victory for Law,

as their candidates were successful in winning control of all
major positions contested by Law men.

Clint Havey will preside over
the newly-elected Council, receiving staunch support from his running mate, Al Blakeney, next
year’s vice-president. Bringing in
D.A.A.C. budgets, in ’47, will be
Dave Doig, and he will be competing for funds with Glee Club prexy
Gordie Hart. Thus, the Law men
will have an excellent opportunity
of building up the Dal societies
and student activities, practicing
what they preached so successfully
in pre-election campaigning.

About 75% of those eligible to
vote took advantage of their privileges, with Forrest Campus turning out almost 100%, while Studleyites were a bit lax, although
showing up better than in previous
years.

Pharos won a decisive victory,
2 out of every 3 students favoring
the payment of $3.00 at the first
of each year, while a little over
one-third of the voters wanted a
Men’s Residence as Dalhousie’s
War Memorial.

 

Arts and Science Take
Final Debate from Law
To Win Bennett Shield

@ ARTS & SCIENCE, supporting
the resolution, “Resolved that the
future welfare of Canada depends
on further centralization of power”
—were victorious over Law in the
finals for the Bennett Shield.

Arts & Science, represented by
Rhude, J. Harris and Thompson,
achieved their victory by a 2 to 1
margin, edging out the potent Law
team, captained by Soper. It was
the opinion of judges, Profs. Mercer, Maxwell and Student Representative Saunders, that, although
the rhetoric of Soper & Co. was
definitely superior to that of Arts
and Science, the latter team more
than offset this disadvantage by
the strength and weight of their
arguments. Arts & Science, upholding the affirmative, claimed
that only by further centralization
of government power would the
Canadian democracy achieve its
greatest efficiency. Law, on the
other hand, believed that because
of the heterogenity of the Canadian
people, present decentralization of
power would be to the advantage
of the Dominion. Unfortunately,
their argument was rather weak.

The coveted Shield has, for the
past year, been hanging in the
Forrest building of the Law School.
Now, after its presentation on

Late Flashes!!

Vets Re-elect Officers

@® AT THE ANNUAL MEETING
of the Veterans’ Association last
night President Alex Hart, Law
"47, and his entire executive were
re-elected for the coming year.
Millie was added to the general
duties committee.

 

NO MALCOLM HONOUR
AWARDS

® ALEC FARQUHAR, chairman of
the Malcolm Honour Award Committee, announced late yesterday
that there would be no award this
year. This award is the highest
honour Dalhousie can bestow upon one of its graduating students.
The Committee made no comment
on its decision.

 

STUDENT COUNCIL BANQUET

® A STUDENT COUNCIL banquet
wilt be held on Monday, March
llth, at the Nova Scotian Hotel,
commencing at 6:30 p.m. The affair is informal and is open to students and alummi, (and their
wives). Tickets are on sale at the
Gym (O’Brien) or from Heads of
the Student Societies and members
of the Student Council.

 

Preview . :

Fri., Mar 8th
Hockey at the Arena at 8:00
p.m.—Dalhousie vs. St. Mary’s.
Badminton Tournament (Intercollegiate) in Dal Gym at 2:30
p. m.

Saturday:

Basketball in the Dal Gym at
1:00 p. m.—Dal vs. Tech.
Badminton Tournament continued at 2.30 p.m.

Sunday:

Boxing meeting in the Gym at
3:30 p .m

Meeting of New Council at the
Murray Homestead at 2:30 p. m

Monday:

Student Council Banquet at Nova
Scotian Hotel at 6:30 p. m.

Tuesday:

Munro Day Activities beginning
at 3:00 p. m.

Wednesday:

D.A.A.C. Managing Committee
will meet in the D.A.A.C, Room
at 1 p. m.

  

 

 

 
  
  
   

  
 
 
  
 
   
   

     
    

 
 

 
  

   

   

f
| TUESDAY IS MUNRO DAY: the time
+h year when the faculty join with the
jergraduates in shelving lectures, books,
assignments to pay tribute to George
-. one of the University’s first and
atest friends, and to demonstrate among
emselves the pride and distinction they
ckon to be theirs as good Dalhousians, loyal

  

 

  

‘ ig
ri T€
i a ‘ :
é ‘ ) ‘

   
 
 

te
Gite voy

1

th
d
ee
mr
; ay ;

i
i
4

ruiz

   

he
A

: eV Wath sentiments peculiarly his own, each

of aus watches the day approach. , For some

others merely another ribald party.

it will be just a holiday from classes, a
e

o guilty and the more cautious anxiously in-terpret it as the warning shot that heralds a
~ much belated but desperate struggle with the

curriculum, all prospects of success in the
spring examinations hinging upon the outcome. The carefree and the confident can see
only a welcome indication of the proximity of

the summer vacation. It has always been so.

Yet Munro Day 1946 holds a particular
significance for us all. It marks. the first
spring in seven years that Dalhousie has not
had to witness some of her sons risking their
lives on the various battle fronts of the world,
that the way of life we have been experiencing
ever since our births might persevere. It

also marks the return of many—alas, not all

—of these sons to partake of the rewards of
the victory for which they fought. And for
these privileges Dalhousie is rightly thankful.
This way of life, much as we have taken
it for granted, does not prevail everywhere on
the earth, or even everywhere throughout our
own nation. Fortunate as we have been to be
brought up accustomed to one of the highest
material standards of living history has ever
known, to be privileged to attend this University, where we may associate with whom
we please, study what we please, train for
whichever of the higher paid positions in
society we may please, and, above all, THINK
AS WE PLEASE, we are tempted to forget
that others are not so well off as we, and, what
is more important, that they earnestly are
striving to raise themselves to our level.

 

Sa Veal ae u r at A Say, ee ae De |

om gitor .. Cte ene Fecce .
® Business Manager ..Bob

Associate editors:

  

Sports ........ Alec Farquhar
Features .......... -Al Lomas
Literary .......Morton Norman

Photography ... Don Morrison
Cartoons—Bob Tuck.
Circulation—Nita Sideris

Mary Farquhar

 

unro Day: A Pause for Meditation

(Genuine liberty of thought is not true for
all Canadian institutions of learning, and perhaps not strictly true for this one, but Dalhousie, sufficiently ? to provide the
necessary equipment of a university, and yet,
due to its independence of church, state, and
business cliques, not restricted from teaching
any religious, civil, or economic doctrine, enjoys this liberty more than is generally
appreciated.)

Canadians in lower income brackets at
home, and less wealthy states abroad know
what they are missing and are determined to
gain it. Their attempts to do so cause our
domestic convulsions and international wars.

The campus has just emerged, from a
hectic election; on Tuesday we wil climax the
year’s social activities with a minimum eleven
hours of feasting. Though these are trivial
incidents, they seem all important to us.
Many of the students participating are servicemen fresh from the battlefronts They—and
everybody else want only to erase the experience of the last six years from their memories
and concentrate on themselves and their own
immediate problems. At Dalhousie we are all
wrapped up in a little environment of our own,
and take small notice of the system that supports this environment. It is no wonder we
can justify the exercise of these privileges.
The ignorant, meaning ourselves, can be induced to believe anything. |

If we want to continue fighting for this
system, or even to decide whether we want it
maintained, we had first better understand it.
When it has been menaced in the past, we
merely did as we were told, seized a weapon

‘and used it against all challengers. So far we

have been fortunate enough to come out on
top. There is nothing in history which says
that this good fortune must continue.

All that is asked is that you look beyond
your day to day life at Dalhousie and endeavour to comprehend the forces that make
it possible; and then someday, someday within
your own lifetime, be prepared either to re
 

gene

Veterans’ Association Report:

_ General Duties Committee

© QUESTIONARIES returned—254 _

Number of student veterans needing summer empliyment—176

Number requiring full time employment—158
Number requiring part time work—18
Available May 1—129 for full time employment

nounce it, or conduct intelligently its defence.

 

Council
Disciplines

Continued from page 1
Next item to be discussed was
the appointment of a Freshman
Representative for the new council.
Bill Mingo was chosen for the posij tion.

 
 

ws wey Jie
a hoe Py
et ) ‘ td : ey Ea ud a; ¥e a i ¥
, ea Day
* F, id re a ‘
ts a
- : & vn ay
7 : / Baa

News ........... Blair Dunlop
- Don Harris

16 for part time empliyment
Available Aug 1— 29 for full part employment
2 for part time employment

® TRADES OF THOSE STUDENT veterans desiring full time

work at any time after May 1:

Aerodrome control and flying ..............--¢.50e0e005- 2
UREN cea Cds ROC ES od wld a RU o fo hima o's mala wy Slap a 1
Radio operator, mechanics, announcers.............+..+. 13
ANNEAL, FEMS UTM DUES (100525). 48 s. 'a)h seep Sv vic ceie ‘dine babe ale pea tue 1
Nursing (Registered Nurse) Male ...................... 1
Lumber Workers (pulp scalers ete.).............6- 020005. 3
CI RTE te ki 6 os cra dio cigi ti) a. cia elelanl c caval le 4
PORNRGHE SBTING  WOLKETS 6 circ c's cule cd vice eels lew ele whoa lleigs z
Sperera: wWOrkmen. (OUtGide fo 6. i ee ee ee bese eee 25
Survey work—engineering .... 2.266. .se eee cee ees 19
Drug clerks—-Pharmacy workers..............5.00.0000s 9
Se UNIMON RTEMNOME OUD NS, CL sbe Uae lA ee p se hinigias belle Ue 31
BRDOPALOTY WOFKOFS. oi) se eles eee ee Feat ih let elit Wik aia 4

124

@® TRADES OF THOSE STUDENT VETERANS desiring full time

work at any time after Aug. 1:

RE UCIT TS Who ee i att ale nin elle 10
RIO LOND Te. ela Gil CW dos o dveca dla odie ele bre wdletbns 4
SRM ROMN WOME Vi pe eo Chins N'4 ale He's win laa viele ges Hat waletaans 3
EMER SDM Wak Wid ie Bila Vara evahes b+ Wide te sly baw vleice de 2
SUB IIINIIRCREN Ta ei ceidy ca te I hb ee 2
RIT MPMMEMCR TUITE Uy hidsy is lgicl ai: Con's 4 a diets. sien ssl 89, Gnd idle 9 © wlbies 1
Nursing (Reg’d Nurse—female) ..................0.00-. 1
eMC RO LOR ODPIEOE. OUT ill didie cd dak «lela dw cdc y eileen ee diacle 1
UI EEA Y War Win Wis Aula sri oea'ee: a'e's WiSiv Vis Biches dle vig 1
EE Arche OS ONLI tially al CoB aiiele.e veaccte- si wiale sop iais 1
MEER Vier Dale Ws nial iu dias, kd) ailie gua 'ar Faun Kisiacci lore p\e die ehea't 3

ae 23

_ @ PART TIME WORKERS AVAILABLE May 1 desire the
ing types of jobs:

I eT, RATNER PMVMDEIK, ix AY Sh dw Wd els y die late o! Diy’ ele ae leaice o'ele 9
ST RPE WONK (FPOLCRPOG 602 DN halos sibs alee wb'g eS ode er be's 3
a Sade minouncer (alse tiLOr) 6.08. iiccicece heehee pecs 1

_ ©. Lumber checker or shipping clerk ...................4.. 1

NEY MORON INURE O68. eo LR UR ea tar oid)s wakes «bis va vie sieks « eelieaa § 1

/ Rind MAMORMEMINDIA TEN shot ib udic bce att oe Ace y dea slel ae wie'e de Se Te.

ST iph'g-.! « ; ae

ip iy “er 16

 
  
  

Pay
*

oo Hi , >

a ; ‘
/ ,

\ The committee hope to notify definite employment leads through
“is the notice boards as these leads are uncovered.

follow
_@ PART TIME WORKERS available Aug. 1 desire the following

G f. *
? |

“Any kind of work ...... aw SVE RAIRMIGS nih aie od Wd inte 1

The meeting then went into a
discussion of the system of awards
at Dal, and the feasibility of making changes. It was suggested that
Gold D’s be made harder to get in
all societies and Clint Havey was
made the chairman of a committee,
the remaining members to be
chosen from the new council.

A suggestion was made that the
Band be given points for ther efforts this year and a lengthy conversation ensued. As a result, the
Band was requested to turn in a
report showing that they had participated in at least 30 practices and
performances, as required in the
Band Constitution. Paid performances would not count as full performances, but would receive halfcredits.

Will Apprehend Culprits

Final item on the agenda was
what action should be taken, if any,
against those who rudely interrupted the Glee Club’s 3-Act play
“You Can’t Take It With You,” on
Friday, Feb. 23rd. Opinion was almost unanimous that the culprits
be apprehended and punished for
their misdemeanors, and, taking
this stand, the Council instructed
Prexy Larry Sutherland and _ his
successor, Clint Havey, to approach the Engineering Society and
ask them to turn in a list of their
offenders, as the. Society itself had
suggested in its issue of the Gazette. The Council intended to ask
the Glee Club to turn in a list of
offenders from other Faculties and
all such persons would be dealt
with simultaneously, and receive
the same treatment,

 

he vue te! 4 f ! 1; ee
eam et aia eyes al
Vi amity MARE a
ie dc 2 i
myth ;

: we
Queen

(Continued from Page One)

   

  

Vivian Lusher, Men’s Residence;
Joan Godfrey, Beaver Club; Muriel
Chisholm, Dentistry; Terry MacLean, King’s.

The Munro Day Committee in

charge, consisting of Doug Roy,

Gordie Hart, Barbara White, and
Doug Clarke, have not yet announced the panel of judges, but
have intimated that it will be made
up of twelve prominent male members of the faculty.

 

Mt. St. Bernard Wins
Decisive Victory In
Co-ed Battle of Wits

@® ON WEDNESDAY, March 6th
the resolution “That as a preliminary to world Government the formation of a western European unit
is advisable” was debated by Dalhousie and Mt. St. Bernard. The
Dalhousie team, Elizabeth Reeves,
and Terry MacLean upheld the affirmative while Mount St. Bernard
team, Terry MacLeod and Shelia
Currie upheld the negative.

The decision of the judges
Father O’Donnell, Professor John
Grant of the faculty of Pine Hill
Divinity Hall and George Fraser,
Maritime director of the British
United Press, was unanimous for
the visiting team,

The girls are to be commended
on the excellent presentation of
this rather difficult subject. The
judges complimented the two teams
on the obvious amount of preparation both displayed in their skillful handling of the debate. It
seems a shame that the interest of
the student body in debating is so
low that out of the eleven hundred
students enrolled, no more than fifteen were present, however this
apathy is not environed in the
quality of our Dalhousie debaters.

 

Application for Gazette,
Hand Book Editors

®. THE STUDENT BODY is asking for applications for the positions of Gazette Editor, (salary
—$100); Gazette Business Manager (15% commission); Hand
Book Editor (commission 20% —
maximum of $100).

. Applications are to be forwarded
to Mr. M. Rankin, 98% Edward
St., Halifax, not later than Wednesday, March 20, 1946.

 

No Smoking in Arts
Building
@® THE UNIVERSITY OFFICE
has requested strict observance of

the No Smoking rule in the halls of
the Arts Building.

Attention,
Basketball Team!!

@ NEXT FRIDAY four intercollegiate basketball teams will be arriving from Acadia, St. F. X., Mt.
A., and U. N. B. to participate in
the invitation meet here at Dalhousie.

You are earnestly requested to
provide accommodation for at least
one player Friday and perhaps Saturday evening. Please contact
Deek Grant on Waegwoltic Avenue to make arrangements.

a a A RS EH

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

Thomas Wallace

Sons and Daughters
Sight Specialists

ai

Y.M.C.A, Building,
Phone 3-6881

Halifax

it

    
  
 

‘A
ae
hs
Aer

  

 
   

Bank on a Sweet Cap

for satisfaction—anywhere ... anytime!

And when you tune in

“LIGHT UP AND LISTEN” WITH

SWEET CAPORAL

CIGARETTES
STATION CHNS

Every Thursday Night

10:30 p.m.

 

DIAMONDS ARE
BRILLIANT

It is often said that Birks
diamonds are more brilliant,
but why should this be?

Birks experts grade their
own diamonds and select only
those whose color, purity and
cutting will insure extra brilliancy.

Henry Birks and Sons
Limited
Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax

     
 
    

—_
—

LIGHT UP AND

Yes sir, there’s nothing like a
Sweet Cap to put you in a
relaxed mood when the ‘cram’
session's over!

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE,
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

NURSERIES Limited...
381 sarRINGTON /T- HALIFAX

 
  

 
  

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
@

   

   
      

    

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

ye

PO life.

& ge
a4 YY =

    
 
      
  
   
     
   
 
 
  
 

 

   
       
    
 
      
 
    
 
       
    
 
   
 

 

Quality and style to suit the high requirements of the students of Dalhousie will be found
at the largest furriers in the east.

Maritime Furriers Limited

52 Sackville Street, Halifax
(Next door to the Garrick Theatre)

>. aa

 

Balhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B,
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematica, Modern

Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees

of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses,

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 

 

 
 
   

 

\

.. Fairley Prouse

 

Lae...

 

...Bobby White

...Wargot Ross
Phi Chi...

abe a

Kay Whitehouse

Ro ie oS SAR = oA

Munro DayEstablishedTo
Honor Dalhousie’s Great
Friend and Benefactor

@ THE SECOND TUESDAY in March has been set aside by .

the University every year since 1928 to celebrate the benefactors of Dalhousie, and has been called Munro Day, in respect
to George Munro, not only because of the great financial aid
he gave but also the timeliness of his gift. For when the university was to be closed down due to financial difficulties
George Munro made his significant contribution.

George Munro was born in 1825.
His father had a small but successful farm and in the atmosphere
of Scotch family life he grew up.
In his home, religion and patriotism were highly respected and
with his nine sisters and brothers
he shared all the joys of a happy
family. All these pleasant associations and influences made a
deep impression on him and in later
years he returned to his home in
Millbrock annually.

In Printing Business

His primary education was similar to that given all country boys
of that time. When he was twelve
years old he entered the office of
“The Pictou Observer’, to learn
the printing business but he only
remained there two years and left
to return to school—this time in
New Glasgow. After two years
there, young Munro turned to the
teaching profession, but when he
Was 18 years old he went back again
to school to continue his studies,
under his former school master,
Basil Bell, who was then at Pictou
Academy.

After a two year period, Munro
went to the New Glasgow school
but now as a teacher. When he had
taught there for three years, he
proceeded to Halifax to teach
mathematics at the Free Church
Academy in Halifax. He was later
made Principal.

Along with the duties of teaching, he studied theology but he
never became a clergyman. It is
said that after preaching one sermon he resolved never to renew
the ordeal. Being a modest man

to the extent of near-shyness, this
vow is quite understandable,

At that time Nova Scotia had
nine colleges, each having close

religious affiliations, which were
responsible for much _ enemity.
Munro being extremely interested
in education, was displeased with
the religious controversy within the
province, which was undermining
the educational program. He then
turned toward “the States” and in
1856 he was employed by a large
publishing house, His previous
training, family influence, ambition
and energy soon placed him in a
position to set up business for himself,
Endows Publishing House

Besides being called a great “‘innovator” in the educational field he
became known as the father of the
Skyseraper, for when Munro built
his publishing house on Vandewater
Street it was the highest building
in New York. One of the first
apartment houses in New York,
overlooking Central Park, built by
Munro, who was now a wealthy
man, bears the name “Dalhousie.”

His first donation to Dalhousie
University was in 1879 and was
larger than any previous donation
given to a Canadian college. He
made many more generous gifts
during the next few years. In the
1880’s Dalhousie’s future was very
insecure and had it not been for
the benefactions of George Munro,
the university would have closed
down, ;

To George Munro, we the present students owe a two-fold debt
—as a benefactor who made our
attendance here today possible and
as an example of unselfishness and
virtue.

“Lives of great men all remind

us

We can make our lives sublime,

And departing, leave behind us,

Foot-prints on the sands of time.”

— Wordsworth.

 

Eleven Hours of Celebration Planned

Queen Contest Highlights
Program; Glee Club Show
Enshrouded in Mystery

® THE.TWO O’CLOCK BUZZER in the Gymnasium next
Tuesday will be the signal that rings up the curtain and dims
the house lights on the 1946 edition of Munro Day festivities,
always the glorious celebration that winds up the year’s social

activities on the campus.

Fifteen minutes later (the interval

allowing those sleeping in for the first time since Christmas
to recover from the novelty and make an appearance) the gym
floor will be the scene of the final match for the interfaculty

basketball crown.

At half time the boys’ senior
varsity squad, obviously concealed
in feminine sporting apparel, will
undertake to show their female
counter-parts just how the game
should be played. Strictly a crowd
pleaser, this event has become an
annual affair here at Dalhousie and
its inclusion again on this year’s
program indicates its popularity.
Pie-eating Compeptition

At 3:30 the Munro Day shield
will be placed on the board for interfaculty competition, and the
Munro Day committee have racked
their immagination to draft a list
of unusual specialties that promises to put to a stern test the
abilities of the participants. The
list includes pie-eating, milk-feeding (the female perched on the
male’s lap feeding him from a bottle complete with nipple) and one
or two other surprise numbers that
are not being announced before
hand. The faculty team collecting
the greatest amount of points will
be honoured with the engraving of
its name on the shield.

Efforts of the teaching faculty
to choose a Munro Day Queen
from a baker’s+ dozen of co-ed
lovelies will high-light the four
o’clock spot on the afternoon program, sponsored by sundry fraternities and societies. The gals
complete with lipstick and mascara
will attempt to break down the
reserve of the profefssorial panel.

A supper dance interspersed
with novelty prizes will tide over
festivities from five to seven, dur
ing which time jivers and jitterbugs can take time out to test
the culinary qualifications of the
female element who’ll be serving
a bean and brown-bread repast in
the lower gym.

Gold “D” Presented

The evening program gets underway at 7:15 with short addresses by Mrs. Hebb and Murray Rankin, presidents, respectively, of the
Alumnae and Alumni Associations.
Following this, the newlyelected
Students’ Council parades its beguiling wares before the footlights. 'Gold ‘D’s’ will then be presented to the campus elite, and
at 7:45 the curtain rises on the
much-mooted Glee Club Mystery
Show. At long last we’ll be able to
unmask the mystery plot and characters of the most-talked-about
play in a long cycle of Munro Day
entertainments,

At nine the Connolly Shield for
inter-class drama, the Pan Hellenic
Prize forthe outstanding freshette
and the Malcom Honour Award for
the outstanding graduate will be
presented to the respective winners.

Following official crowning of
the Munro Day Queen, said Highness will trip the light fantastic
with the chairman of the professorial judging committee as a starter to a three-hour dance session
presided over by Don Warner’s Collegians.

What happens after that is anybody’s guess!

 

Glory, Glory for Dalhousie!

Glory, Glory for Dalhousie! ! !

Come, sons of old Dalhousie, cheer your Husky team!

couse out a welcome to your men of steel and steam!

They’ll win the victory and tonight the birds will scream,
“This is Dalhousie’s Day!”

Chorus:

Glory, glory for Dalhousie

Glory, glory fer Dalhousie

Glory, glory for Dalhousie

This is Dalhousie’s Day!
Whoop up the chorus, boys, let everybody sing!
Swell out your lusty lungs and send it with a swing!
And for Dalhousie boys we’ll make the welkin ring;
“This is Dalhousie’s Day!’

* *

* *

Dalhousie Dream Girl

Dalhousie dream girl of mine

You are my dream girl divine.

Love me forever and Ill love you too,
Always be true, Dream Girl to you.
Dalhousie dream girl! of mine,

Thoughts of you thrill me like wine.

Make me one promise that you’ll be forever
Dalhousie dream girl of mine.

Program of Festivities

Novelty numbers with prizes.
(Price: 25¢).

2.15 P.M. Final playoff match for interfaculty basketball crown.
Boys’ varsity seniors vs. girls’ varsity seniors.

3.30 P.M. Interfaculty field competition for Munro Day Shield.
(Novelty events: pie eating, milk sipping, etc.)

4.00 P.M. Contest to choose “Queen of Munro Day” from 12 typical
freshettes.

5.00 P.M. Supper Dance lasting to 7.00,
Supper served in lower gym during dance.

7.15 P.M. Addresses from Mrs. Hebb, President of Alumnae, and Mr.
Murray Rankin, President of Alumni.

7.25 P.M. Presentation of New Council.

7.30 P.M. Presentation of Gold ‘D’s.

7.45 P.M. Munroe Day Show produced by the Glee Club.

9.00 P.M. Naming and presentation of Connolly Shield winner, PanHellenic winner, and Malcom Honour Award winner.

9.20P.M. Crowning of the Queen of Munro Day.

9.30 P.M.

Munro Day dance, lasting at least to 1 A.M.

 

 

   
     

 

 

... WILL BE QUEEN

PhiDeltaTheta... Beaver Club...

 

oJ

Mary Robertson ...Joan Godfrey

Commerce... Men’s Residence

 

...Kay MacLean
Kings...

...Vivian Lusher

Sigma Chi...

...f erryMacLean

Phi Rho... Engineering...

...Vancy Wilson

 

Marion Withrow

...Jean Leslie
   
  
  

  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  

acLeod ‘Describes
icturesque Estate
| Dalhousie’s Heirs

= DALHOUSIE family was founded by Sir John
Amsay, who rescued King James VI in the
e outrage. The king had been decoyed by
the younger of the two sons of the Earl of
: ie who had been executed when James VI was
but a boy. On arriving at his elder brother’s mansion

ie the King was led from one apartment to
pet until he finally reached a little perce where

 

 

igs wintow. and proceeded te make forcible NSN 08
it was a page of the King’s called Sir John Ramsay
ee who discovered a back stair which led him to the
it turret where he stabbed Ruthven twice and thrust

him down a staircase where two of the royal atioe tendants despatched him with their swords. The
>. gratefal King made Sir John, Lord Ramsay of Barns
and Viscount Haddingten, but later his son had the
__ title changed to Baron Ramsay of Dalhousie, His son
ei was created Earl of Dalhousic. The ninth Earl was
a distinguished Waterloo officer serving under the
Duke*of Wellington and later held high command in
Canada, and also was Commander in Chief in British
India previous to 1832. It was during his office in
ee Canada that he made possible the founding of Dal_. housie College, which our own eminent archivist D. C.
By | Harvey has so ably presented in his Intreduction to
the History of Dalhousie University. The ancestral!
seat of all those following Sir John Ramsay was
Dalhousie Castle situated about fifteen miles from
Edinburgh on the River Esk, not far from Newbattle
Abbey, the seat of the Marquis of Midlothian, but
on the death of the tenth Earl in 1860, whose
Governor Generalship in India has been largely underestimaied, the title and the estate were inherited
by the Earl of Panmure, who is now the representative of both the ancient families of Ramsay and
Maule. This eleventh Earl of Dalhousie was the
eldest son of William Ramsay Maule, Ist Baron Panmure (1771-1852) and a grandson of the eighth Earl
of Dalhousie. He was born in 1801 and christened
Pox Maule Ramsay as a compliment to the Whig of
that period. The ancestral seat in Midlothian was
now removed to Brechin Castle in Angus, the home of
the Maule family, and it is there today that the Earls
of Dalhousie hold their sway.

  
   
  
    
    

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

ee CASTLE stands on a precipitous rock rising

some one hundred feet above the River South
Esk, which at this point forms a deep poe! called the
“Fedawéei” dreaded by young Brechiners as bottomless and it was considered a triumph of great importance in the writer’s time when one was able to
swim to the other side and rest on ifs scant rocky
ledge, to recover for the return crossing. This forbidden swimming pool was within the Castle property
and sometimes the “gamie” would scatter the “dookers” by making his appearance at the most imopportune time; scores of nude figures could be seen
_ serambling across the “goyle” with their scanty attire
_ grasped tightly, making a hasty escape to reach the

f who were marooned on the opposite side. They
| had to wait until the uncomplimentary taunts and
jeers of the indignant bathers had finally prevailed

into the woods beyond the river. The South Esk like
other Scottish rivers was famed for the beauty and

Hs excellence of its fresh water pearls and near this
be Same spot the pearl poachers “aye did weel” and
s further down the river near the Brig O’Brechin the

salmon poachers carried on their nocturnal dragging
when the salmon were running upstream to spawn.

But we have digressed here so let us get back to
the Castle and from its rocky eminence take in the
beautiful view upstream; not ‘many hundred yards
away is a highly ornamental bridge with well sculptured figures resting in niches formed in the supporting piers and appropriately named the Image
Bridge. This crossing of the South Esk afforded an

_ entrance to the Castle from the south, an excellently
a. wooded area of noble trees and rich haugh lands be-yond which rise the wooded Heights of Burghill. The
a , eyes entrance to the Castle is on the street of that
eee near the West Port and typical of many other
Castles has a large gate and gate house built ig the
a ee

‘a mage Bridge

safety of the town side. But woe betide the swimmers

and the lordly retainer vanished as quickly as he came.

  
 
  

 
   

  

  

  

   
  

  

Breckin Castle

high stone dyke which bounds the castle grounds and
can only be entered when the gatekeeper is satisfied
that you have the proper credentials. The Castle
underwent a siege in 1303 from the English Army
under Edward I and only surrendered on Sir Thomas
Maule, its brave governor, being killed. The castle
library contains many valuable manuscripts, among
these are the Chartularies of St. Andrews, Brechin,
etc., also the correspondence of Burns the Scottish
Bard and his friend George Thompson. Among its
paintings is an original portrait of the Marquis of
Mentrose by Honhurst estimated at great value.

Interesting to the antiquarian and historian also
is the Cathedral and Round Tower which are situated
close to the castle in a ravine of great beauty. In
ancient days it contained an abbey of the Culdees and
a bishopric was subsequently established within it by
Dayid I in 1150. The Cathedral Church, (dedicated
to the Holy Trinity), founded here and liberally endowed by the same monarch was a stately Gothic
fabric with aisles, etc., but these were destroyed by
the wretched taste displayed in repairing it in. 1807.
Adjoining the Church is a Round Tower of which there
are only two in Scotland the other one being at
Abernethy. It is a circular column of great beauty
and elegance about eighty-seven feet high with an
octagonal spire or roof of about fifteen feet more
making in all about one hundred and two feet in
height. It gradually tapers from an external diameter
of fifteen feet at the base or sill of door to twelve
feet at the top of windows. The door is six and one
half feet from the ground. The top lintel contains a
representation of the crucifixion; on the sides of the
door are effigies of two monks and a grotesque
animal in crouching posture on each side of the door
sill. It contains no stair and the only access to the
top is by ladders placed on wooden floors which rest
on circular stone projections within the tower. The
walls are four feet thick at the bottom diminishing to
‘less than three feet at the top. Great uncertainty at
one time prevailed regarding the purpose and the era
of the Round Tower but this has been largely removed
by careful researches and the two similar buildings
in Scotland may now be placed after the introduction
of Christianity, and whatever other purposes they were
intended to serve there can be little doubt that they
were used as belfries,

 

HE TOWN of Brechin is situated on the left bank

of the South Esk and was a walled town in
ancient days having four ports which still remain the
names of the four exists from the town; North Port,
South Port, East and West Ports. When Brechin
Was a mediaeval burgh with its characteristic ports
petty customs were collected from incoming traders,
and when the writer was residing in Brechin one of
the Toll Houses still existed at the West Port. In
fact one of the school teachers of that day was known
by the nickname Tollie on account of residing in the
old toll house. Brechin apart from its monuments
in stone of ancient times has nothing to boast of but
its immediate environs are steeped in early Scottish
history. Let us pass through the North Port which
heads directly for Glenesk the Highland domain of
the Earl of Dalhousie. First of importance as we
pass through this ancient portal; to our right is a
natural ravine which has been transformed into a

veritable beauty spot, the slopes of which are artisti- °

cally clothed with ornamental shrubs and trees of
various geographical origin. The none too spacious
bottom contains several hot houses which have been
ably attended to by the tireless efforts of a few
generations of gardeners making the Den Nursery as
it is called of county wide reputation. One old gardener, Sandy by name, used to admonish his weeders
(as the writer well remembers) with a very pert
statement in braid Scots: “Pu ilka perlikkit o’it lads”
and his eagle eye could spot a weed as a hawk his
quarry from on high.

Then as if in vivid contrast to our left is the
Gallows’ Hill whose name furnishes the description
which we need not necessarily rehearse here, and
nearby stands the North Port distillery brewing the
“barley bree”. Continuing northward on the Trinity
Road as we reach Trinity Muir, the scene’ of an annual fair comparable to that in Hardy’s Novel “The
Mayor of Casterbridge’ and thence to the River
Cruick where an excellent view of the Grampian
Mountains with the celebrated ferts of the two Caterthuns are seen about three miles to the left. As a boy
the writer has visited those Caterthuns many times
when the blueberries were ripe, the slopes of those

hills are covered with heather and blueberries and

... Cathedral, Brechin

 

young Brechiners make this pilgrimage frequently
during the berry season. On the top of Caterthun is
a large ring of stones several feet high eliptical in
shape and all evidently carried from the River Cruick
a few miles away. I had often wondered how they
managed to get those big stones up there and was
assured by my great aunt that the Highlanders
passed them from hand to hand up the steep slopes
to the top of Caterthun; the explanation sufficed but
I still did not understand how the huge stone which
stood near the middle of the ring got there and my
truthful aged companion told me in a hushed whisper
that the devil himself brought that one up.

OW casting our glance to the right we see the

Kirk of Stracathro the scene of King John Baliol’s
submission to Edward I in 1296. In 1130 a battle was
fought in the same neighborhood between David I
and Angus, Earl of Murray which ended in the defeat
of the latter. The word Stracathro, so I was told in
my youth by my same informer was supposed to a
contraction of the battle cry of the Scots when
facing Edward I “strike and ca through”, In broad
Scots which the uneducated Scotch use ‘ca” means
drive, hence Stracathro. This has been contradicted
by later historians who give it a Roman derivation
meaning the Street of the Camps which might
signify that the Romans had their camps there when
they penetrated far up the east coast of Scotland
into Aberdeenshire. At Stracathro near the junction
of the West Water and the North Esk stands the
mansion house of Stracathro, and a little to the
Northeast can be seen the turreted castle of Inglismaldie rising from the adjoining woods. One of our
veteran students now attending Dalhousie University
in one of the professional courses has during his
leaves in Scotland visited Stracathro several times.
A large hospital which is built there was used by the
military and he was profuse in his appreciation of
the hospitality afforded him during his stay at
Straeathro. Only last fall when in conversation with
him he made this remark to the writer: “If I was
there now I would be out stag hunting with the
Laird”. Leaving the Cruick and traversing another
two miles we reach the beautiful village of Edzell
with its modern High Street; entrance to which is
through a massive stone arch.

Here to the westward about a mile from Edzell
stands the extensive ruins of Edzell Castle, the ancestral seat of the once powerful Lindsay family, a
descendant of which, Dr. A. W. H. Lindsay, was professor of anatomy and secretary of the Medical
Faculty of Dalhousie from 1885-1915. Many hairraising stories has the writer heard from his guardian
of the doings of the fierce Lindsays, one of which
lingers freshly in memory to this late day. The
burial ground not very far from the castle has a
small chapel in the center of it, in which I was told
the Lindsays kept their departed prior to being interred in the family vault. The chapel, so I was led
to believe, had a tunnel Which connected it with the
Castle nearby. It seems that one of the ladies who
had taken her demise had been placed in the chapel
pending her final interment in the family vault.
She had been prepared for burial with her rings and
other jewellery on her person and it was told to me
by my informant that a robber had broken into the
Chapel and while taking the rings from her fingers
she suddenly revived and lived many years thereafter.
The gallows used by the Lindsays was a huge tree
with a stout limb growing at right angles to the
parent trunk at a convenient height from,the ground
and was located some distance from the castle in a
wooded section near the village of Edzell. I was told

‘that many of the Lindsay enemies had been hung

thereon and I felt very much relieved to know that the
Lindsays had long since departed from Edzell Castle
and the ruins and its immediate environs were now
the property of the Earl of Dalhousie. The garden
walls of this old castle are ornamented by a number
of elaborate carvings in stone. On the east wall are
the celestial dieties; on the south are the sciences and
on the west the theological and cardinal virtues
forming one of the most interesting memorials of its
kind in Scotland. I still remember my visit there
over fifty years ago; an old worthy with a crooked
staff which he used as a pointer in describing the
carvings, escorted us on our tour of the garden. I
have only one recollection of all his descriptions and
it was when he pointed to a small sculptured figure
carrying a satchel and addressed me thus: “He is a wee
lad like yersel gaen tae schule’,

HE donjon was there with its awful blackness and
depth. I dropped a stone into it and waited for
the resounding thud of its arrival at the bottom. It
seemed to take ages. There also was a huge fireplace in the castle kitchen on which an ox could be
conveniently roasted at one time, but let us get back
to Brechin. It is only a few miles away, those miles
packed full of entrancing remnants of early Scottish
history. An afternoon can accomplish all we have
seen to this moment and there is still ample time to
visit the Suspension and Gannochy Bridges which
span the North Esk, also to go up Glensk where the
Earls of Dalhousie still hunt the deer and woodcock
in the wilds of the Grampians. The shooting lodge
of the Ramsays is at Invermark Lodge near to the
picturesque and ruinous Invermark Castle.

    

Whilst speaking of the hunting lodge up Glenesk
it might not be amiss to mention a few words about
the late G, F. Pearson, LL.B., K.C., at one time
Chairman of the Board of Governors of Dalhousie
University who during his term in that capacity devoted many hours working tirelessly on behalf of his
Alma Mater. When John Cameron, M.D., C.M., Professor of Anatomy, was preparing to make a visit to
his homeland Mr, Pearson asked him to call on the
Earl of Dalhousie and request of him to send a box
of heather complete with soil taken from the Dalhousie Estate. The Earl, who had been badly shaken
in World War I, could not be contacted, but the
Countess generously acquiesced and a box six foot
square and eighteen inches deep was filled with a
block of soil and heather taken from the foothills
of the Grampians on the Dalhousie Estate. It was
shipped by rail to Glasgow, from thence to be forwarded by ship to Halifax, but owing to the big
transportation strike at that time the box lay on the
quay for nearly six weeks and when it ultimately
arrived at the Forrest Building it had little life left
in it. Apparently the heather had not yet received
sufficient mishandling for a Dominion Botanist made
a thorough examination of all the soil in the box before any transplanting could be accomplished. By
constant watering, a few green portions survived and
some was planted in the Oval at Studley Campus and
the rest at the Carleton Campus. The heather did
not survive. It was the intention of Mr. Pearson to
present each graduate with a sprig of Dalhousie
heather when he received his degree. This failed to
materialize, but there is still today at the Carleton
Campus a square yard of scottish earth which for
many years was suitably encircled by a miniature
fench and a small plaque nearby which read “Scotland Yard’, As if to consecrate this hallowed spot
the writer had an Aberdeen lady, the wife of one of
our Dalhousie’s Medical Staff dance a few steps of
the Highland Fling thereon, where rugged Scotia’s
soil rests peacefully in Nova Scotia’s lap.

ERHAPS as a fitting conclusion this article in the
December 11th issue of the “Brechin Advertiser”
entitled “Our Friends Abroad” “Dalhoosie or Dalhowsie” might not be considered amiss. Quote: Dalhousie University, Halifax, is looking forward to a
fresh period of development and prosperity under the
new President Dr. Alexander Enoch Kerr. Dr. Kerr
himself is an old Dalhousian, was inducted last month
and all kinds of tributes to his gifts of character and
leadership were paid on that occasion.

One incident to which the “Halifax Mail’ gave
some prominence the following morning happened at
the inauguration dinner and suggests that among the
gifts of the new President is that of “thoroughness”.
The question was raised at the dinner should the “ow”
in Dalhousie be pronounced “OO” or “OW”. The
President had the answer. Recently he said his “OW”
pronunciation had be questioned on several occasions; latterly by no less a person than Mr. Justice
Kelloch. During lunch in Toronto with the distinguished Justice, Dr. Kerr said Mr. Kelloch asked him
why some people persisted in the “OW” sound. Upon
his return to Halifax President Kerr said he scoured
the files of the Dalhousie Gazette and discovered an
article by Dr. Schurman, Professor of English at
Dalhousie in the 80’s. Dr. Schurman, he said had
written the Earl of Dalhousie who had replied tha
probably the uneducated Scot would say “Dalhoosie”
but that every educated Scot said “Dalhousie”. The
Dalhousie title was taken from the lands of “Dalwolsey” which may account for the “Dalhoosie” pronunciation which is often heard in Midlothian the
Dalhousie “calf ground” and apparently it still lingers in Canada.

—‘“MAC”

 

 

. Dalhousie Castle

   
 
  
 

   
 
 
  

.
 
  
     

Vi

=: 2a

 
  

. i Ne
v {2 Hh
oo

 
   
  
 
 

4
it ~

  

a of amil:
_man got under way.

~ MeGosh Menace. ‘to Society
‘Does anyone recognize zee de_ fendant?” piped Judge Zipper
Th from behind a Glum Club program.
NON) A Vali 3 gurgled fuzz-topped

Dimple Harness. “We had him as
Wh a fencing coach last term. He was

a passing through the city, and our
boys liked his looks, and we felt
re eh a -ete., ete., etc.” (yawn).
Hours later, Mr. Harness was
, carted away still raving, and Court
Bugler Doggie Sour (of O.T.C.

fame) rescued observers from Mor
-pheus with a trumpet blast.

_ “What made you choose Dull
- housie as your Alma Momma, Herr

 Geschieten?” yawned Jake Dime- daughter K.C.
 “*DPwas through J. Cricket Me
Gosh of the Dull Gazoot, whose

nate column was provided us in

prison camp by I.Z.Z. Stewdent

- Relief, ” said the Nutzi who speaks
. - fluent anguish. “Radio’s contribu
~ tion was a daily recording of Mrs.

‘Amby Dextrous’ morning chat.

They thought it’d help our morale.

But .’twas more than a feller’s

nerve could stand—so I tunneled
/ my way to freedom. This McGosh
is a greater menace to civilization
than the entire Nutzi party.”

“Tl demand that statement be
withdrawn from the minutes,”
spake McGosh. ;

Glum Club on Defensive

“Ven you got zee Gazoot,” asked
Zipper, “did you ‘read zee Glum

Club reviews? Don’t take zis
ae Gourmand to heart. I sink
he’s got a grudge against me. Zee
7 ‘Dream of Love’ was really a zing
_ of beauty.”

“Now what Mr. Zipper really
| means... ” drawled court inter
preter Ab Scoffman K.C.

“We know what Hairy means,”
piped understanding Cunning
Itchybald, “and Jayan, Lozenge

_-and I think his show was wunner" ful—simply graaaaaand.”

Reactions to the Geschicten case

were varied. Pedagogue G. Laffy"ville felt it would be nice for him

‘$a drop in at Marmalade Hovel

for a drop-cake with the French

Cirele; Prof. Masseur wanted the

‘Nutets criticism of his new “sys
tem” in German II; Prof. Lorenzo

- Rickets wanted Geschicten’s views

on an address by Indian expert

ORPHEUS
Mon.-Tues.-Wed
March 11-13 ‘

- “MIRACLE KID”
“THE HIDD MENACE”
Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.
March 14-16
“HOW Brae DO”

“DAYS OF BUFFALO BILL”

{CASINO

An Odeon Theatre

  
  
 
 
  
  

 
   
 

     
       
     
       
     
        
     
      
  
 
 
  
  
  

   

 

  

by J, CRICKET McGOSH

“An | d Nazi peewho was posing as a graduate of the Dalhousie
escape piisor
Medical School—has been. captured - in Cornwall, Ontario.”

"TWAS APPROPRIATE that escaped Nutzi L. Buben
schicten ‘should be tried and judged at the university he’d
Ay | Bro essed as his Alma Momma.
after his arrest, Geschicten was arraigned for questioning in
_ the Manure Room (crude, isn’t it?) of the Low Scull.
Hairy Zipper of the Glum Club elected judge, because of his
iarity with the European scene, trial of the Nutzi bad

—Press Despatch. )

Dispatched to Dullhousie
With

Sir Frederick Puckele, while Bleary
Hinterland felt a committee should

be appointed to look into the
matter.
“Perhaps,” said McGosh, “as

Geschicten will be Herr today and
gone tomorrow .. . he has one last
request to make before judgment
is passed.”

“Yes,” sighed the Nutzi, “throughout my entire confinement in prison
camp, I had but one longing in my

soul. Id like to hear Crooner
Gunther Rowthling sing ‘Paper
Moon’.”

Gunther Rowthling Croons

As the zoot-suited idol (looking
better fed, but no less beguiling
than Sinatra) rose beaming to
chant his ballad, the court room
emptied quickly. When Mr. Rowthling had finished “sending” his
listeners, staff and stewdents reappeared, led by aging Philosopher
Blurbie Stewpot bearing a portable
radio,

“Laadies and Gentlemen,” grunted the oldster, “you’re just in
time to hear my transcribed commentary.”

“No! No! No!” sereamed L,
Buben Geschicten. “First "twas
Mrs. Dextrous, then MeGosh—and
now Dr. Stewpot. I can’t stand it
—do you hear?” So saying, he
swallowed a deadly arsenic capsule
and slumped to the floor.

At this point biologists Ducksey
Pullet and Ronnie Haze drifted
into the room. “Oh I say,” spake
Ducksey, “we thought by the commotion there was a dance in here
you’d want us to chaperone. How
frightfully embarrassing! Come,
Ronnie—l’'ll give you an oral quiz.
Oh I say——is that fellow dead?
Could we have him for an experiment?”

“Ve are zo zorry, Dr. Pullet,”
quoth Judge Zipper, “but ve plan
to use zee corpse as a prop in zee
Glum Club.”

Which they did.

hea

      
 

 

 

 

 

 

Forrest Flashes

MED and LAW

@ IN SPITE of the increasingly
ominous threat of exams, which
seems to be throwing its dismal
cloak around the cavernous Medical retreats, the news this week
does not restrict itself to Forrest
activities, but to Studley. Thursday night saw a favorable representation of Medicine at the prodigious Junior Prom, affiliated, they
say, with the Engineering annual
effort.

When Acadia met her Waterloo
at the Gym and Arena on Friday,
Forrest halls were emptied so that
these disciples of the scalpel could
joyfully watch the Axemen go
under. Congratulations to Griffen,
who playeyd a grand game of
basketball, and to Bill Moreside,
who in the evening did much to
earry the Tiger hockey squad to
victory.

Dougger Roy (as usual) is a
busy boy these days. To those who
don’t already know, he’s Chairman
of the Munro Day Committee,
which has been responsible for
newer and greater innovations in
this famous and exclusive annual
holiday. The program consists of
the proverbial Glee Club presentation in the evening, and the
dance afterwards, as well as an
afternoon of sports for all, a supper dance, and a beauty contest—
the lucky winner being crowned
that evening. It will be a day of
Coca-Cola, Women and Song, brilliant with the accumulation of long
organization, and the spirit that is
afforded by the realization that it
terminates the social year. So all
you Meds new at Dalhousie come
out and live and laugh while still
there is time.

 

Canadian Campus

While thousands of European
students struggle to restore life to
their bomb-gutted universities,
Canadian students last week sat
back smugly in their undamaged
ivory towers and half-heartedly
acknowledged their debt to their
continental brothers-in-books. The
International Students Service offered the opportunity for these
Canadian students to repay their
debt for peaceful campi, an opportunity which, in too many cases,
was refused,

CAPITOL

Mon.-Tues.- Wed,
March 11- i

“JOHNNY
ANGEL”

with
GEORGE RAFT
C)

March 14-16

 

|| “TOO YOUNG

TO KNO
ROBERT HUTTON
JOAN LESLIE

 

 

The classic example of this
isolationist indifference came
from the University of Manitoba
where, under pressure of a few
posters, about $800 was extracted. Students frankly admitted they “didn’t” want to worry
about other university students
when trying to get a new university in Winnipeg.”

L.S.S. organizers for the most
part, kept their thoughts and disappointments to themselves. Observers noted that men and women
who had experienced Europe’s
plight were more liberal with their
donations, They also noted a slightly selfish attitude among the average Canadian university student
and paused to wonder “Is Canada
slightly high-hatted?”

OXFORD

Mon.-Thurs., March 11-14
“VALLEY OF DECISION”
with
Gregory Peck, Greer Garson

Fri.-Sat, March 15-16,

“FOUR FEATHERS” >
and

“LEAVE IT TO BLONDIE”

@® WE WISH to congratulate the
successful Law candidates in their
recent election to the various posts
on the campus, and we note with
some measure of pride the Law
school, which not so long ago was
a struggling group of thirty-odd
students, has now become the
potent factor it was before the war.
The Council will have Clint Havey
and Al Blakeney at its head, while
Dave Doig will preside over the
D.A.A.C., and Gordie Hart will be
president of the Dalhousie Glee
and Dramatic Society. The students will have every opportunity
to realize ‘“‘A Better Dal with Clint
and Al”,

The return bridge game with
the girls of Delta Gamma was a
success in every way, and Chairman of the Bridge Committee Alex
Hickman is to be commended on
the way the party was handled.

Rumor has it that Alex was
holding hands with a very pretty
co-ed after the party on Shirreff
Hall steps. Probably just little
white lies, eh Hick?

We don’t want to usurp Knowsey’s domain, but we would like to
know if Fred M. is really going to
put up (Pat Godfrey as his own
choice for Campus Queen: Also,
where does Tom Feeney spend his
long winter evenings? { hope Tom
has not forgotten his first love
(the Law).

The Common Room, resplendent
with new furniture, adds some
comfort to our long hours of hard
work. Also Contracts 3 class can
recline, as Abe, Dunsie, and Boyd
practice the latest in the field of
bridge. We understand the boys
are going to write a book “Better
Bridge with Bigger Bids”. Nice
going, Law basketball team. We
hope that you stay at the top of
the interfaculty league, and come
through in flying style in the
payoffs.

Happy moment
..-have a Coke

Coca-Cola Ltd.

as

“An eye for an eye, a tooth for
a tooth; an identification bracelet
for a ring (same difference).”
But Knowsey suggests that you
add a few more links to your possession, Blair. It might be more
economical in the long run.

Math I is becoming a more popular subject on the campus than
ever before. Hebba! Hebba!
Hebba!

The Nova Scotian is quite the
place—more alcoves than Shirreff
Hall itself, plus drapes (to shut
out the light of course), and soft
music too. What more could the
Juniors and Engineers ask for?
Not only did our friend Jack Morrisen admire the outside of the
drapes, but also the inside. Nice
texture, isn’t she?

Harris’ and Miller’s motto seems
to be—‘If at first I don’t succeed,
I will try, try, try her again.”
But she is so unwilling.

“Let it rain, let it pour,” but
Jim Ross can still be seen waiting
for his “Sacred Heart” on Tuesdays.

Muriel C. seemed to be in the
mood for receiving a frat pin
Thursday night—and a Phi Delta
at that. f

T-SQUARE

® WITH MUNRO DAY coming
next week, the time has arrived for
the presentation of awards in the
Society. The lucky winners being:
Morgan Award for Proficiency in
Profanity 1 — H. Norman; Vic
Clarke Award for Drawing Board
Decoration — Tom Bauld; Royal
Order of the Black Horse—D. Dunlop; Gillette Trophy for Ablest
Use of Razor Blades on Ink Tracings—D. Parsons; College Spirits
Award—given jointly to Menchions
and Bauld, who indulged only in
Black and Gold during the banquet; Short Circuit Award—Socket
Page,

The various organizations of this
society also announced their officers for next year. The Weaslers’
Union reports a successful year
under Sawyer, and re-elected him
for another term. The Zero Club
(composed of men who have received the mark of zero or less in
practicals through the year) and
the Horizontal and Vertical Clubs
retain their usual membership.
Lew Bell has been elected president of the Verticals, and Bill
MacLeod to presidency of the
Oblique Club.

A special prize should be given
to Patton for the best boner of the

 

    

 

 
  

— Halifax

 
    

 

—Photo by Jacoby
® JACK BISHOP, S.C.M. Seeretary for the Maritimes is now at
Dalhousie, having spent some time
at the other Maritime universities.

In addition to the usual records
groups led by Dr. Bronson and Dr.
Archibald, attended by some 70
students, a discussion group and a
Tuesday Worship Service have
been started this year. A banquet,
which we hope will become an annual affair, is being held Wednesdav, March 13th at 7 o’clock at the
Belmont Hotel, Dartmouth, which
all are invited to attend. The new
executive for the coming year will
be appointed, reports given, and
suggestions offered for next year’s
program,

 

year. It seems that this enterprising individual connected a bunsen
burner to a water-tap, and then
wondered why the match went out.

The publicity department for the
Engineer’s representative in the
Munro Day beauty contest has
been put under the management of
Zen (nothing but compliments)
Graves, and Kipper, who carries a
box of Kleenex in case any of the
judges wish to wipe their glasses.

 

To keep in touch with the
newest popular music, make
it a habit to visit

PHINNEYS

regularly as new records
are released.

PHINNEY’S LIMITED

451 Barrington Street

 

ene
S

 

 
 
   

 

e
t.
i

Hit Stride in

Second Half

To Swamp N. S. Tech in
fntercollegiate Hoop Tilt

& THURSDAY AFTERNOON the Dal Intercollegiate team
defeated Nova Scotia Tech 43-20 in a rough and very uninter
esting game.

Should Dalhousie defeat Tech in the second

game they will finish in a first place tie with St. Francis Xavier
for the Nova Scotia Intercollegiate title.

 

e
Icemen Wind up Year
. e * a
Tonite Against Irish
--Hoopers Meet Tech

Tonight the Dalhousie hockey
- team winds up its Intercollegiate
schedule when it tackles St. Mary’s
College at the Arena at eight
o'clock, The outcome of the contest
will have no bearing whatever on
the standing of the league but
nonetheless competition will be
just as keen as if it were a championship match

The Tigers will be at full
strength and after upsetting the
Acadia applecart last week are confident of racking up another victory.

Tomorrow at one o’clock, the
Tiger cagers see action against
Tech in the last game of the Intercollegiate series. Tech, although
it has not an imposing lineup, certainly has lots of scrap. The Intercollegiate Tigers are eager to
‘come out of their slump and will
have their scoring eyes sighted for
the occasion. If Dalhousie take the
match they still have a slight
chance to stay in the running for
the powerful title but if they lose,
they are definitely out.

 

Hockey Tonite at Arena, 8 p.m.

TIGERS vs. ST. MARY’S

Basketball Tomorrow in Gym
1 p.m.

TIGERS vs. N. S. TECH

 

In the first half Dal had a slight
lead but with poor shooting and
poor floor play they missed many
good opportunities. In this period
Gordie Hart led the Tigers with 6
points on three nice baskets; for
Tech, Kerr with four points was
high man.. The score at the end
of this healf was 16-14 for Dal.

Coach MacKenzie must have
told the boys how poorly they were
playing at half time because in the
second half they played a brand of
ball that has been missing during
the last few games. They passed
the ball well and worked it into the
basket making sure of their shots,
at the same time holding Tech to
only six points for the entire half.
MacDonald, Dalhousie guard, led
the Tigers in this half with seven
points.

Farquhar with ten points was
top scorer for Dal while Kerr, and
Clark were the best for Tech with
five points each. Creighton, while
only for a short time, managed to
score eight points until he was
foreed to the sidelines with a
twisted ankle,

The next game in this series will
be played on Saturday, one o’clock,
in the Dal gym.

Lineup: Dunlop 8, Creighton 8,
Farquhar 10, Knight 4, Hart 6,
Giffen, Blakeney; MacDonald 7.

 

Tigers Eliminated From City Loop

 

rs Still in ‘Running for Title
ith 43. 20 Win Over N. S. Tech

 

 

SURPRISE! SURPRISE!

Surprises have been the vogue of ©

late in the Maritime Intercollegiate world. At U.N.B. a couple of
weeks ago, the Brunswickans, undefeated in 50-odd games were
taken aback great when an underrated Mt. Allison team held them
to a 27-27 tie. At Acadia last week,
the Axemen hoopers pulled a fast
one when they scored 19 points in
the final ten minutes of their game
with St. F. X. to take the title
22-21. Then on our own front last
Friday night the Tiger ice-machine

scored a major upset when they defeated Acadia 7-2. Maybe Dalhousie will surprise everybody

again and take the Maritime Invitation basketball meet next week.
Their chances will be better with
lots of support.
INVITATION TOURNEY

With the Tiger hoopsters eliminated from further play in the
Nova Scotia Senior Playdowns and
the hockey squad excluded from the
Intercollegiate League honours, the
major sports event that looms at
present is the gala _ basketball
tournament which will take place
here at Dalhousie next Friday and
Saturday. All the major Universities of the Maritimes will be entered: U.N.B., Mount Allison, Acadia, St. F. X., Tech and Dalhousie.

Eligibility for Intercollegiate

 

| On the Sidelines! 1

By ALEX FARQUHAR

 

play doesn’t count in the tournament—everybody, irrespective of
degrees or scholastic standing, can
take part. That means that every
college will have the strongest lineup participating and the competition should produce some of the
best basketball seen in these parts
for a long time.
Maritime Final

Feature match of the tournament
will be the Maritime Intercollegiate
Playoff final between the Nova
Scotia winner and the New Brunswick victor. It will be the first
game on the two day schedule and
is slated to get underway at seven
o’clock Friday night.

In the Nova Scotia Intercollegiate basketball League things are
rather in a mix-up. At present
M.LA.U. moguls are debating
whether or not the game between
St. F. X. and Dal will be ruled a
tie or not. If it is decided that the
game is officialky a tie, and provided that Dalhousie win both its
remaining tilts with Tech, then St.
F, X. and Dalhousie will wind up in
a tie for first place. If such is the
case another game will be necessary to decide the N. S. winner.

There are a lot of ‘ifs’ and ‘provided thats’ in the controvesry but
there is still a slim chance that the
Tigers will take the Provincial

Play

 

As Stad Come Back to Take Two Straight

 

Tiger Hockeyists Turn Back
Acadialin Major Collegiate Upset

@® IN ONE of the finest hockey games that Dalhousie has
played this year, the Tigers managed to upset the predictions

of the experts to down Acadia 17-2
Without their sparkplug, Acadia was just another

night.

at the Arena last Friday

hockey team and not a very good one.

 

  

   

Q Wish your pencil
gmooth can be?

  
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

/} Wish the point
would last and last
and LAST?

0 Wish it were the
very finest pencil
for drawing and

writing you ever
laid hands on?

EAGLE ‘Chomi- Sealed" TURQUOISE Dnawt

Make your wish
come true—

10c

EACH

Less in

qyantities Buy
“EAGLE Met Te ese

= UPER BONDETL
|

]

PENCILS

     
       

.
¥ Mw.
a vane

 

were smooth as.

FO mS yt atte tree. nage is ME A pe

During the second period the
Tigers stormed to the attack determined to even the score which
LeBlanc finally did on a nice passing play from Crowell and Knickle.
The break of the game came in
the third period when Crowell of
Acadia was serving a penalty with
a shot from Moreside deflected by
an Acadian player over Fowler’s
head into the net. From then on
the game belonged to the Gold and
Black and it was only the gensational goal-tending of Vie Fowler
which held the score down.

The whole Dal team played excellent hockey and the defensive
work of Frazee was a joy to behold. Moreside played a _ hard
back-check game and McKeough
made some nice stops in the net
although he was not exactly
deluged.

TIGERS FALTER AFTER
TAKING SERIES OPENER

@ A down-hearted Tiger squad slowly walking to the dressingroom at Stad on Monday night after having been eliminated
from the Senior league in the third game of the best-of-three
series with the fighting sailors, 35-24, Previously, on Saturday, the Bengals, considerably weakened, as fate claimed three
victims, handed down the second game of the series 28-21,
having won the initial contest 33-31.

Dalhousie 21; Stadacona 28

Farquhar out through sickness,
Dunlop handicapped by a_ bad
finger, and Eddie Rogers just out
of a sick-bed, were the main reasons for the Saturday defeat. Even
with the superb playing of Ralph
Cooley, a treat seen very little
around Dalhousie this year, the
Tigers were unable to overcome a
19-6 deficit, gained by Stad in the
starting frame. The sailors were
well organized while the Dalhousians threw away many passes
and appeared sadly disorganized on
the floor.

 

 

Lineups — McKeough, Wade,
Graves, Clarke, Frazee, Currie,
Churchill-Smith, Knickle, Blakeney
Moreside , Crowell.

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful brea.

 

ak
OPTS

MARVEN’S 4@: QUAL'!TY

4

ed omy *

However, when they came out
for the second canto, the Bengals
displayed better basketball as they
pressed their opponents, giving
them little opportunity to break on
the basket, and with Cooley and
Giffen showing the way, Dal slowly
crept up on the Stadacona squad.
The sailors then rallied and managed to maintain their small
margin to win 28-21, as. Fenwick,
the thorn in the Tiger’s sjde, set
up many plays that were capably
handled, and garnered 11 points for
himself.

Dalhousie 24; Stadacona 35

The Monday encounter was a
great tussle, the Tigers being at
full strength but, as in previous
games, lacking the polish of their
more-experienced opponents. Again
it was Cooley who starred, Giffen
also showing his usual steady
game, being very potent under the
hoops.

With the play very even, Dal
took a 15-10 lead at the half, but
was soon overcome in the second
period as Stad outplayed the
Tigers in all departments. The
sailors cut down the margin, and
with Fenwick, rangy blond hoopster, pacing his squad, they ended
the game walking away from Dalhousie, 35-24.

Both games were very rough, the
referees calling 26 and 36 fouls
respectively, Dalhousie capitalizing
on 19 out of 49 free throws and
Stad on 13 out of 32.

Lineup: (Saturday) Dunlop 3,
Creighton 2, Robinson, Knight, G.
Hart 2, E. Rogers 3, A. Hart,
Blakeney, Cooley 7, Giffen 4.

(Monday) Dunlop 1, Creighton,
Knight, Robinson 4, G. Hart, E.
Rogers 6, Cooley 3, A. Hart 3,

Giffen 7, Blakeney.

 

 
 

   

 
 

GERS WIN 22-17 FROM

AXEMEN IN RUGGED TILT,
ST. F.X. GAME ONLY A TIE?

@® LATEST REPORTS given are that the game against St.

F.X. that resulted in a

54-52 overtime victory for the Anti
gonish boys, will count as a draw, so that Dal’s 22-17 win ower
the Acadia Axemen could put the Tigers in a first place tie for

the Intercollegiate championship.

Dal has still two scheduled

basketball tilts against Tech, and if these result in two successes, a sudden death game will be necessary against St. F. X,.
to decide who will meet the N. B. winner for the Maritime

title.

Play Cautiously
The first half of the Acadia-Dal game was very slow, both
teams working very cautiously around the baskets and producing a brand of ball that gave little to interest the spec
tators.

The checking was very close and fouls plentiful,

referee Eccles missing many of the penalties, and the low
score at the half, 10-9 for Acadia, is evidence of the type of

play.

 

Law Finishes First In
Interfac League; Frosh
Favoured to Win Title

With only one game left to play
in the Inter-Faculty Basketball
league, Meds vs Arts & Science,
the four play-off positions are held
by (1) Law (2) lrosh and Engineers (3) Meds and Commerce. Meds
should have no trouble with Afts
& Science and by winning the game
they will force Commerce out of
the play-offs.

The semi-finals will be suddendeath games with the winners
meeting in the finals in a two-game
total point series.

The Law team, though not a
strong team managed to finish in
first place. Led by Hatfield and
.Roddam they can be counted on to
put up a good fight.

Frosh are definitely the team to
beat. They started poorly but ‘finished the league by winning their
last six games. With players like
Hannington, Morrow and McKay
scoring ten or twelve points a
game, Frosh certainly look like the
new champs.

The Engineers are the most unpredictable team in the league.
They have the scoring power and
defensive play which is needed by.a
winning team but at times fall
apart rather badly. But they are
definite contenders for the cup and
Should be watched.

Creighton High Scorer

The second frame was contested
in quite the same style, both teams
taking care ir working the ball,
only to miss many beautiful
chances. Dal took the lead on
baskets by Creighton and Giffen
and with Blair;Dunlop putting up
a good fight despite a badly dislocated finger, the Tigers seemed
destined for a victory. However,
the Axemen still had plenty of
fight and two quick baskets put
them within two points of Dal. At
this point Knight capitalized on a
free throw and then a field goal to
give Dalhousie a five-point margin

as the whistle went to end the
game, 22-17.
High scorer of the match was

—

Berney Creighton with 7 points,
Giffen starring in his defensive
role. Humphries was the key man
for the Acadia quintet, scoring 6
points and holding the Tigers down
with his rangy guarding.

Lineup: Dunlop 2, Creighton 7,
Knight 3, F. Rogers, G. Hart 3,
Giffen 3, Blakeney 1, MacDonald 38.

7

 

 

The Meds at times are as strong
aS any team in the league but because they never bring out all
their best men they cannot be sure
of winning.

RR LG oe ATRL My f- 14
YG SS beast ees 10 6 4 12
Engineers ....... 10 6 4 12
Commerce ....... w4)6 6. 8
REGGE od sig x fdua€ x oe 5 g*
Arts & Science .. 9 2 4%. 4%

*

One game left.

 

be Smarr—Look 6 SMART

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

  
  
  
 
 
 

 

 

WRU EVAR a EU

 

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT

Joa Chest

7.45

A YOUNG PEOPLES’ RALLY
Especially Designed for YOUth!

Ww

The SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND, Morris & South Park
IT’S INTERDENOMINATIONAL |!

 
