  
 
  
 

ERICA’S

 

 

   
 
 

  

f

HALIFAX, NO

OLDEST

VA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 8,

STUDENT

1946

 

PUBLICATION

 

No, 14

 

  

No Pleasing

by DON HARRIS

| e AMONG the most heartening

_sights to be witnessed at Dalhousie

during the past three or four years
was the large turnout of Dal rooters at the hockey and basketball
games last weekend. Both faculty
members and students turned out
in force to support the hockey and
basketball varsity squads and
members of the two teams have
asked the Gazette to express their
sincere appreciation for this support. ;
: Bengals Swamped

The Xaverians threw a big
monkey wrench inte the plans of
the Bengal hockey squad, as the
highly-rated St. F.X. team more
than lived up to their great reputation as a powerhouse hockey

a) ae machine, swamping the Bengals,
ie

BRD. ‘The pasting had to come in

i

   
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
    
   
 
   
  
   
   

~

the trast hockey game at which Dalhousie backed its team vocally,
probably discouraging many erstwhile cheerers. Nevertheless, despite the high score, the Dal team
never stopped trying, battling, as
best they could, right down to the
last bell, showing a fighting spirit
which has been seldom exhibited by
any Dal. Varsity team in recent
years. This fighting spirit brought
the Tigers their first win over
Tech two weeks ago.

‘The members of the hockey team
have shown that they will fight,
even in a hopeless cause, as in the
St. F.X. fiasco. It is up to the
faculty and student body to show
a similar spirit; to turn out in
strength and back their team.
Rome wasn’t built in a day, nor
ean a hockey team be built in one
year, as many Dalhousians seem to
think.

Tigers Defeat Mt. A.

Hockey was not the only feature
of the weekend activities. Dal
Tigers defeated Mount A. in a
hard-fought battle in the gym.,
Saturday evening. This was the
first win for the senior squad this
year, and it was only human to
expect Dal rooters to congratulate
the Bengals, even if they wouldn’t
cheer for them during the game.
But this was too much to ask of
many Dal students. Not only did
many of them root for Mount A.,
a commendable action, had they
also given the slightest support to
their own team, but after the game
many true Dal followers went
around bellowing about the poor
sportsmanship of Dalhousie, in not
giving the ball to their opponents
once during the last four minutes
of play.

So disgruntled were these solid
citizens at this, (although they
didn’t know it) masterly exhibition
of ball-handling, that they didn't
notice another exhibition of “poor”
sportsmanship by the Dal team.
With less than a minute to go in
the game, Mount A. lost a man
through fouls and, according to the
soles, they had only four men left

| i ae ah on page 2)

Council Give Approval

Dal Students! Conditionally for Gym

Stands; Pass Budgets

@® AT THE MEETING of the Council of Students, last Wednesday night, the much battered about question of whether to
have, or have not, spectator stands in the gym, was finally

settled. After

much discussion, both pro and con, Treasurer

Murray Rankin presented the argument that, since desirability
was agreed upon, the question of feasibility be settled. Main
arguments against the stands, presented by Professor Maxwell, were the difficulty of putting up the stands, storage
space, and the danger of the wood warping.

Stating that the stands could be
paid for in two years, Don Harris,
President of D=A. A.C., gave the
argument that the stands were absolutely necessary if intercollegiate
meets were to be held at Dalhousie.
The motion was finally made that,
if the construction company’s fiveyear guarantee proved legally
valid, and satisfactory to the
Council, spectator stands should be
built for the gym.

Trip Budgets

Next item on the agenda was the
trip budgets for the various teams.
Those approved and passed were:
a basketball trip to Acadia, $78.48;
hockey trip to Acadia, $106.05;
hockey and basketball trip to St.
F.X., combined, $216.00; boxing
trip to U.N.B,, $806.50; swimming
trip to Acadia, $45.60; and an additional badminton budget of
$262.00. Considered and rejected
was a $209.00 budget for a trip of
the swimming team to U.N.B.

The suggestion Was then presented by Gordie Hart, Dance
Committee Chairman, for a fancydress ball to be held in the gym
on February 15. The idea of the
fancy-dress ball was voted down.
But the motion for a Students’
Council Dance on the same date
Was approved and passed. Admission to the dance will be on Students’ Council tickets.

The next meeting of the Council
of Students will be at 12.00 noon,
February 14th, for the vital business of nominating next year’s
Executive.

 

Pharos Want Orders,
Biographies, Pictures,
Candid Snapshots Now

@® ALL ORDERS for Pharos must
be in by February 28, so anyone
wishing to obtain a copy of this
years’ enlarged edition of the Year
Book should put in his order right
away. The reason for this deadline is that the covers for the book
are not made in the city and require some time to manufacture.
Therefore the editor has to submit
to the printer the exact number of
covers that are to be made. There
can be no resetting the dead-line,
for it is the intention of the editors
to have the book published during
Convocation Week and, to do that,
they will have to put their final
order in by the end of February.
So students are asked to cooperate and, if they have not done
so, to order their copy immediately. Pharos may be purchased
in the Year Book Office any day
between 12 and 1 p.m. or from the
following students, Kaye MacLean,
Connie Archibald, Issie Wilmot, Al
Lomas, Jim Bell, Nita Sederis,
Drummond Fraser, Bob Seely,
Alex Farquhar, Janet Gillis, Hope
Btidgeford, Bob Watson, Jack
Boudreau, Allan Blakeney, Doug
Hunt, Donald Hebb.

Graduates. are reminded that
they are expected to have their
Graduation pictures taken, and

Continued on Page Two)

Dean Lectures...

cS

DR. G. E. WILSON
Dean of the faculty of Arts and
Science who lectured last night in
the Engineering Common Room on
the possibilities of lasting peace.

 

Boilermakers, Juniors

To Hold Joint BallProm February 28th

@® YES, FOLKS, its true; that
high - society Battle - Rolling Ball,
known as the Engineers Ball, is
about to come off after all. This
year however, the Engineers are
going to be aided in their arrangements by the Junior Class. The one
great stipulation that the men of
Permit Haven made, before acquiescing to the joint undertaking,
was that no plaid shirts be worn
by the members of the Junior
Class. As one Freshman said, “It’s
farmal—I’m wearing shoes.”

The proceedings will get under
way at the Nova Scotian Hotel,
February 28, to the hot licks of
Jerry Naugler’s orchestra. Those
in possesion of tickets to the

Continued on Page Two)

 

in Sympathy
THE GAZETTE wishes to express deepest sympathy, on behalf
of the Dal student body, to Dr.
Forhan on his recent bereavement
in the death of his father,

 

Summer Employment Prospects Good
Student-Veterans Will Get Preference

by AL LOMAS
® THIS WEEK, in an interview
with the GAZETTE, Mr. G. A.

Lough, of the Halifax Branch of~

the National Selective Service Organization, stated that by the time
that College students are available
for work there should be a considerable labor shortage in the
Halifax City and County districts

-at least, and probably throughout

the whole province. This prospect
should be encouraging to the approximately 600 male students at
Dalhousie who plan to work during
all or part of the five month summer vacation.
Problem of Unemployment

Referring to the present problem of unemployment, Mr. Lough
pointed out that,most of those now

ne fore Pharae

receiving Unemployment Insurance
were in some Manner incapable of
work, or else had been ousted from
their wartime jobs by the return

 

of service “Efhployment is
closel o the supply cf.
materials,” “he stated, “and as

* a
more materials are released thege

will be a-greater need for men to
use them. Although it is still a
little too early to tell yet,” he continued, “probably by May there
will be a sufficient amount of critieal material released to allow for
the absorbtion of most college students in the construction \industry
alone.” He went on to say that
there are over 250 building projects alone in this area that are
being held up, and which should be
in full swing by a uanlassibas

      
     

a |

ders e

=

Service Men to Receive Preference

As far as Ex-servicemen are
concerned, Mr. Lough made _ it
clear that they would be given a
definite preference in summer employment as in permanent jobs.
His organization plans to set up a
special branch to deal with youths
and boys taking their first jobs,
and this branch will also carry
the load when the colleges close.
This plan has the added advantage
of employing trained counsellors
to advise and direct the right men
for the right jobs.

Although this general picture by
Mr. Lough is favorable, he admits
that it is still too early to make
definite statements on the situation. However, when asked if the

(Continued on page 2)

 

   

 

} NO MORE PROMISING THAN LEAGUE

SAYS
WILSON

Arts aaa Silenes Dean
Sees Little Prospect For

Permanent Peace Now

WOULD REQUIRE DRASTIC
CHANGE IN HUMAN NATURE

@® “THE UNITED NATIONS Organization offers no greater
expectation for a lasting peace, under existing economic and
political conditions, than did the League of Nations in 1918,”
said Dr. George E. Wilson, speaking before a gathering in the
Dalhousie Engineering Common Room last night.

At a meeting sponsored by the
Maritime Labor Institute, Dr. Wilson discussed “the fundamental
principles of peace”, exhibiting a
very pessimistic outlook towards
the possibility of a lasting peace in
our time. The fundamental principles of peace take into consideration
two main points, human nature
and national sovereignty, said Dr.
Wilson. For a lasting peace, for
peace at all, one requirement is a
change in human nature. Dr. Wilstressed. the need for this
change, but added. “human nature
won’t change.” He supported this
argument by stating that throughout history, there has been no evidence of a change for the better
and present day attitudes give
little reason for hope in the future.
Dr. Wilson told his audience that
“man is fundamentally stupid.
People lack imagination.” These
elements are absolutely ruinous to
a pleace plan, he said, and have
existed since the beginning of
time.

son

Traces Evolution of State

Dr. Wilson then traced the evolution of national states to the
present age where the state is
omnipotent. Sovereignity of the
national state dominates all else
today and the soverign state recognises nothing above itself. This
trend began in the 15th century,
progressed gradually to the end of
the. 18th century, when there was
a short period of peace and
brotherhood, people being cosmopolitan, and then, following the
French Revolution, expanded into
the Leviathan we now recognize
as the national state. He continued by saying that, with the ad
(Continued on page 2)

 

Former Law Sc. Dean
Named Can. Delegate
To International Court

@® JOHN ERSKINE REED, K.C.,
B.A., Dalhousie (Class ’09) and
Dean of the Dalhousie Law School
from 1925 to 1929, was named
this week to represent Canada on
the United Nations’ Organization
International Court of Justice.
Nominated for this position last
December, Mr. Reed will be the
court’s only Canadian member.

A native of Halifax, Mr. Reed
entered Dalhousie on the MacKenzie Bursary, graduating with a
B.A. with distinction in 1909.
Rhodes Scholar for,Nova Scotia in
1910, he proceeded overseas to
Oxford, where he was granted
B.A. and B.C. degrees. Appointed
Dean of the Law School in 1925,
he again left Dalhousie in 1929 to
become head of the legal branch
of the Department of External
Affairs. In 1944 he was promoted
to a rank equivalent to that of a
Canadian ambassador to a foreign
government.

 

Unique Appartus To
Be Installed at Dal

@® THERE WILL shortly be installed at Dalhousie University in
the Medical Sciences Building the
first Tiselius Electrophoresis Apparatus in Canada. This piece of
equipment was originally designed
in the famous laboratory of physical chemistry at the University of
Uppsala in Sweden. . It will be as(Continued on Page Two)

 

Moot Court Ends Sittings
With Accident Case Hearing

SUPREME MOOT COURT
ne Bh its sittings last Thursday,
when a Halifax case was decided
in favor of the appellant, represented by Black, K.C. Respondent
was represented by Burnett K.C.,
and the bench was composed of
Feeney LCJ, and Butler and McCleave LJJ, with the latter giving
the dissenting judgment.

The case arose out of a runaway
horse, which, left unattended by
his driver who went to see his lady

love, bolted (the horse, not the
lady love) down Spring Garden
Road, threatening the lives of
some kids. A _ stranger to town

dashed out to stop the horse, and
was injured. He collected damages
in a lower court, but this was reversed by the all-powerful Moot
Court.
Should Seize by Nostrils

Enlivening the discussion was a
survey of the best ways to stop a
horse, Black contending he should
have grabbed the brute around the
nostrils, which was received with
a certain amount of skepticism by
their Lordships.

A few fines were meted out, including 16¢ cigars provided by
Paterson, and which proved to be
stinkers, tears rolling from the
bench.

Court adjourned sine die to allow
for any future trials on summary
procedure against offenders.

 

Need Senate Approval
To Launch Campaign

® THE ALUMNI has not anthority to raise money for the
University unless the Senate gives
its approval, said Murray M.
Rankin, President of The Dalhousie
Alumni Association, in a statement
to THE GAZETTE last week. We
can not work alone in this project,
he continued; the Senate and
Alumni must work in co-operation
with each other.

The members of the Association,
Mr. Rankin said, number approximately five thousand, organized in
clubs in many parts of the continent. These clubs are not knit
together as closely as they might
be, he added, but the executive
plans, in the future, to establish a
business office in Halifax, through
which the Alumni will carry on
general relations with the public,
and business transactions authorized by the Senate, and also will
Strengthen the ties between the
individual clubs.

Mr. Rankin was interviewed in
connection with a erecent editorial
carried in THE GAZETTE, calling

upon the Alumni for a more active .

interest in student affairs on the
part of all its members, and for a
definite financial contribution to
the University’s building fund,

.- February 28th


ee

 

 
  
   
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
  

1 ¥
2 eet La
t ae eS
y é iv,
A . a
‘ ie ‘eit
>
1)
5
;

¥,

ie
|

Mm

less than average.

Wins

_ future Councils.

wrong. -.

- these fields.

a commendable program.
ei

collegiate sport.

t

">. themselves.

vities.

turn out;
poorly ;

 

y Dy
Hy qi ota
Sate
We eA yy Le
ra at ci
a Sedtly
+. 4 ey ”
mehr! e cy
Thy ¥ a :
vy 4
cl r
=
ie? | nA
; F fal® ’
ie ay € 5.
- emt) 7),
Fis!" } \
y

end of July. This year the Council has had
the largest revenue” (approximately $14,000.)
in its history; yet the surplus left over to be
“ane deposited in the general sinking fund will be

Bie), Nor does this imply that the money has
"een granted too lavishly. Early in the fall
the policy was adopted that the fees collected
-. from the students should be spent on them
_ during the course of the year for which they
_ paid, rather than set it aside for ‘the use of

_ There now prevails, however, among the
"less active members of the student body a
- __ conviction that too little has been received in
- ~~ return. Over one third of the Council’s income

has been devoted to athletics, and these
students have the opinion that the showing of
_ the various teams has not warranted such a
res: tremendous expenditure,—and they are not

Ry Yet the fault lies not with the D.A.A.C.
They decided to become as active an organization as possible; their policy has been to enter
almost as many fields of sport as are offered,
_ and to provide opportunities for as many
students as are interested to participate in
EB 6) They have endeavoured to build
*_up and expand sport within the University—

The success that has accrued from these
efforts has been, to say the least, mediocre.
_ Far from being a power in senior sport, as
- was their position years ago, Dalhousie has
long since ceased to be a power in inter| Today, the showing of our
' teams is habitually accompanied by hoots of
_ derision and sneers of contempt, both from
what small part of the general public that
care to take notice, and from the students

A A major portion of the blame can not be
- attributed to the present D.A.A.C. executive—
other executives in recent years have fared no
better—but* rather to the peculiar circumstances that exist in connection with the University, infecting sport as well as other actiWe seem to receive less than our share
of developed athletes from the high schools;
we develop none from those we do receive;
those developed in other colleges refuse to
our coaching system
the attitude of certain
players is disgusting—a fair percentage are
interested only in trips and gold “D’’s; and the

 

4

| America’s Oldest Student Publication

a ‘or more than 76 years devoted to the interests of the student body.

 

 

 

- Staff

Hditor ...... sebaeiee Mingo
Business Manager ..Bob McCleave
Associate editors:

OWS)! <6.003 3 cicews . Blair Dunlop

Don Harris
Spore’ 4./sied es Alee Farquhar
Features ....... ... -Al Lomas
Litetary 6.8 42 Morton Norman

Photography ... Don Morrison
Cartoons—Bob Tuck.
Cireulation—Nita Sideris

Mary Farquhar

 

_ Athletics: ‘Some Proposals for Improvement
_ LAST WEDNESDAY fight the Students’ .
Council passed budgets totalling well over a
- thousand dollars, and then with worried ex- pressions contemplated the small amount left
in the treasury—scarcely enough to finance
the activities of the eleven dozen students
__ who registered for the post-Christmas term

and will be continuing their classes until the

the introverts ignore them for similar reasons; both parties consider themselves first
and the University not at all. There is much
to be said for this criticism.

The value of sport is not a minor one.
Aside from the fact that it is one of the best
ways for providing students with necessary
relaxation from their studies, and the only
means of promoting physical fitness, it is the
strongest pillar of college spirit; it serves as
a powerful force in advertising the University; and, when built up and properly man
aged, it can be the source of considerable

term.

(1) The

revenue for student undertakings.

As the situation now stands, however, we
reap something of the first two benefits, but
scarcely any of the last three.
may decide to devote less money to athletics,
and the result will be even more unsatisfactory. The whole system needs to undergo a
transformation, |
THAT IS NOW, well in advance of the Fall

Next year we

AND THE TIME TO DO

In view of this conclusion, the following
proposals are put forward for the consideration of every member of the student body:
University authorities
proached immediately to re-draft next year’s
time-tables so that practice hours may be
arranged for the three major sports which
are convenient both for the students of everv
faculty and for coaches holding regular jobs
off the campus.

(2) Competent members of the Alumni
be secured to coach these teams, men who
have a particular affection for Dalhousie’ and
would help -to build up its morale, who have

be ap
‘

proved their athletic ability on the playing

society.

porated with

functions
individual

systematic

fields of the past, and, apart from this ability,
men who would command the respect of the
students as successful, upright leaders of
Such persons were approached this
year but refused because of the inconvenient
hours of practice.

3) The Physical Instructor be promoted
to the faculty of the University and given all
the respect and authority due that rank. For
in the Jong run athletics MUST be built
around the physical instructor, and only when
he has thus been promoted will he be in the
position to undertake the task with a fair
prospect of success,

(4) A new society be organized and incoran executive,
awards and so forth, which, working in conjunetion with a committee from the Alumni,
would be responsible for turning’ out the students, the band, and the Alumni for all campus functions. for conducting the cheer leading at these functions, for staging pep-rallies,
street parades and theatre nights, and for
advertising these events on

a constitution,

the campus by a

scheme of signs and by having

-@ HE WAS A MAN

attitude of the rest of the student body is
worse.—they seldom attend games, and when
they do, it is only to maintain a dead silence
or cheer for the opposite side.

Dalhousie has been condemned as being a

   
  
 

announcements made in the classes.

These proposals are not advanced as a
complete solution to the problem of athletics
at Dalhousie, but as measures that will go a
long way towards solving it. Whether we

    
 
   
    
 
  
   
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 

Summer...
4 | (Continued from page 1)
bs so Wage rates for this summer will
\ ee be much lower than last, he replied
| ey that the wages so far have not
made any appreciable drop, and it
-~—s iS “not expected that they will
' within the next few months. To
os sum up then; the facts are—that

_ @ shortage of labor suffcient to
_ absorb most college students, that
most of these jobs will be of the

____ outdoor, ‘muscle-building’ variety

particularly in the construction

industry, that ex-servicemen will

)—sibe:s given preference in all jobs,

| __ that Selective, Service plans to

direct students into jobs suitable

: _ to the individual, and that wages
the same level'as last year. There
__ is only one thing lacking now—an
tly operating University
t board, to assist the
the most profi
aoe a ee? :
pote ist. ¥e
» 7 i
| ?

collection of individualists, extroverts and in__troverts: the extroverts take part in extracurricular activities for purely selfish motives:

Pharos...

(Continued from Page One).

their biographies turned in to the
Editors of Pharos, not later than
February 10. It is extremely important that the Grads co-operate
in this matter.

Some very fine candid shots have
been turned in, but still more are
needed. If anyone has any snaps
of themselves, or their classmates,
or of campus buildings, or scenes,
we would appreciate receiving

‘them. Any pictures showing phases

of residence life or, for that matter, any aspects of university life,
would be welcomed.

———$_——

 

Notice
@ MEETING of the Senior Class
will be held Tuesday, Feb. 12th at
12 noon in the Arts Building.
Agenda: election of class life offi-.
cers; plans for Convocation Week.

 

table and suitable .summer employment. t

; ~
‘ a ¥

‘ aa .
, ad wr 7 ;
wb i hes ie nee bes: aS z

attempt a reform now or permit matters to
continue in their nresent miserable state rests
entirely with YOU, the student body.

Joint Bail. . .

(Continued from Page One)

Boilermaker’s are advised to “hold
‘em close” because that will be
their O.K, for the big night. The
Junior Class will soon be selling
the pasteboards for the same
dance, so if some roving engineer
did. not clutch you, please let some
member of the Junior class do so
—anyway, some of the Juniors are
girls. Chaperons will be in attendance, thus making. it permissable for freshettes to venture out.
The price? $3.00,

 

—_—_——

Open House for Vets

ON MONDAY NIGHT, Feb. 11, at
Shirreff Hall, Delta Gamma Girls
will be hostesses to all SINGLE
Ex-servicemen who have never
been to University before. All exservicemen “thus qualified” are
most heartily invited to come.
Dancing to Don Warner’s Quintet.
Girls, get your tickets from ‘K.

* n

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

“THE CHIEF”

who impressed everyone with whom he
came in contact. His understanding of our weaknesses, his ceaseless efforts to eliminate them, his
warmth of nature, his supreme
good sense, his humor which allowed him to laugh even at his
own expense, his willingness even
at the busiest moments to give

help and advice to anyone in diffi- |

culty endeared him to us all.

Everyone who knew him felt a
keen personal loss at his passing.
He will be remembered by the
many who came under his training
for his fellowship, for the personal
interest he took in each one of
them.

It was his practice at surveying
camp to learn the first names of
all students, and he never forgot
them. Classes involving problems
dry to youthful minds were made
cheerful by his constant quips, and
his examples taken from a brilliant career as a professional engineer added lightness to a heavy
task.

The Chief has passed on, and
with his passing Dalhousie has
lost a personality who will not be
forgotten. The legend of The
Chief will live wherever and whenever Dal Engineers meet.

 

Arts Dean...

(Continued from page 1)
vent of improved transportation
the state became even more integrated. They began to feel the
need for food and fuel for their
peoples and factories. This caused
them to look abroad for secure
sources of supplies and secure
markets. They also wanted a place
to invest surplus capital.

Towards the end of the 19th
century competition developed on
an increasing scale and grew in
fierceness. One result of this
competition was the growth of
fear, and with it—militarism, the
main feature of the period from
1870 to 1914. The final result of
this whole process of development
was war.

Dr. Wilson then asked his audience to show him in what way the
general world set-up has changed.
Human nature was the same.
Sovereignty was still dominant.
The actions of the U.N.O. were
sufficient basis for this belief, he
maintained. Under these circumStances there could be no peace
“until sovereign powers is curbed
and until some means is found that
will change or transform human
nature,”

 

Unique...

Continued from page 1

sembled and built in the~Department of Biochemistry under the
terms of a grant of about $5,000.00
from the National Research Council
of Canada to Dr. E. Gordon Young.

‘The purpose of this instrument is
to measure the rate of flow of particles under the force of an glectric
current of high voltage and thus to
separate and identify compounds
from complex mixtures such as
blood. By this means it is possible
to study the antibodies of the blood
stream which are responsible for
resistance to various diseases. The
instrument has proved a powerful
and valuable tool in the hands of
the biochemist in the modern study
of: proteins;

 

No Pleasing...

(Continued from page 1)
who were eligible to continue play.
Dal permitted them to put a fifth
man on, for the sake of the game,
and despite the rule.

lf Del students, especially from
Forrest campus, would show a
little more interest in Dal teams,
the @Biqeaisituation would imvr) Hokey: Ti regards Dal
s\ Wade, Graves) "\.

oO Charchill-Smith, Crowe

2 te “Seton LiCr &.

    
  

February 8, 1946 . f
a

ee

How right they

were when they

said  Picobac was
every man’s
tobacco - - its so

cool and mild!

»Picobac

THE PICK OF TOBACCO

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan
in peace: “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

       

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL — SOFT COAL
COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

*

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

 

 

 

JERRY NAUGLER’S

Cors ages ORCHESTRA

A “Colonial’ Corsage designed by ROSEDALE,
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

123 Willow Street
Call 4-9673

 

 

Amethyst
381 p URZERIES Limited -. For February
BARRINGTON ST- HALIFAX Coan: 5 aaa ane

MEAP REN AOE NARIRUOA Re eal conflict, the Amethyst is

assigned to St. Valentine.
After Any Show
OF o. cvs

Before Any Meal
Think of ...

The

 

The rich deep purpleviolet gem when clear
and of even color is the
most precious.

Henry Birks and Sons
Limited

Green Lantern

 

Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax

 

 

 

[ee

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leadin egrees
of M.A., M.Sc. hy wena eas

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and

th
courses, rover She

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an wnexcelled reputation

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential “acilities for men.
x ee.
a teleneeet een 7

nan
See ed ait
   
    

 

 

 

 
 
 

    

 

4 . ‘ _ % z im ' ; ‘
. February 8, 1946 GAZETTE FEATURES ee
| ( ’ A Abi T | BE This Year Bigger Than Ever RF aes
dé eee aioe eee 44%
; U N 0 h 1 ‘ ala ner backward —
a —_— a a >
. N. Q. Chooses Dullhousie Institution”, Says Liver;
“ec a :
« : Ari gnatn
As Permanent Headquarters; ourses Impractica
re | : as oe + D 4 i. “
we ae Se ye oo
‘ee . . 2S Poy WN os a, Sa
- Delegates Jam Kem Teater “1 have always Sanaa eee
oN institution”, said Dr. Liver, brilliant president of Topia U.
by J. CRICKET McGOSH “It has always seemed to B@ am exceedingly impractical
@ WHEN REGISTRAR Chully Beanut trudged over to his ae Arts students study Math, Science students study
Anguish II lecture last week he was somewhat perturbed to eo ory and Foreign Langug ges, Ventistry students study
: find the Kem Teater packed to the gunwales with a bickering, Anatomy ; why, Gad sir! y SO ac books in your library
squabbling mass of humanity. For the befuddled Beanut a bei aes to read them! J
know that the entire U.N.O. organization had invaded Dull- Ls ow some other colleges around “Our Arts students are not the
housie during the wee hours of dawn, acquired the Seance this continent are more practical; emaciated weaklings you find at
building as its permanent headquarters and the Kem Teater | they give degrees in Secretarial Dalhousie. We produce men who
as its assembly hall. X ~ Science Home Economics, Interior are fairly reeking with culture,
Beanut, Casket Maltreated Dominion before the Spring thaw Decorating, and other useful cours- Our English courses, for instance,
“Have you gentlemen seen Miss sets in.” eens es, but here at Topia U. we have the are composed entirely of reviews
¥ Schmidt about registration forms ?” So black and gloomy was Dean ; aeme of college practicality. Our of all the best known authors with
ventured the Anguish chieftain who Wasoon’s address that delegates eee Einar oe suitable Ten eee snide,
is a Victory Gardener and hails would gladly have ditched the whole (——s Gikeee! ae nek tegen cs aoe Nee Inc on
eepin New Zealand. His-query was ce ue ‘ ce ae : i: of boncortey: with pride. As me ex- every iia of menu doctphaeiae’
ror ; i uence 0 . ». President airy : — >
Pai ier "ete Honestbloke who happened to bein 6@ I id MED ample of our advances in the field with additional instruction on the
him from the building. scattering Halifax organizing a Fact-Finding nowsey eee How shall we begin? First of of ee our penal ye oe commanding look to make the
Board. macy includes a very up to ate

his themes to the four winds of
Buttonmeadow campus. Henceforward, they said, he would have to
acquire a vacant garage for his
Anguish II harangues.

Earlier in the day Kem Boss Cull
Casket had been chained to a
Bunsen burner for protesting
against the invasion of his premises. His costly Kem” apparatus
had been swept away to make room
for ateum smashers, and, to add
insult to injury, five of his favorite
research students had been hurled
from a top-story window for refusing to exchange scientific information with the Big Three.

As McGosh followed proceedings
through a crack in the door—Secretaries Ernie Beefin and Jamie
Sealds and Commissar Splashy
Muddlehoff were debating whether
Agere red or blue ink in the official
minutes. of the conference. They
might well have come to blows but
for the merciful intervention of
Mediator W. Fibbin MacFrenzy
Monarch who urged the Big Three:
“to subordinate personal differences
to the interest of world salvation.”
Beefiin, Scalds, and Muddlehoff
agreed to postpone their struggle
until the afternoon session.

Wasoon is Pessimistic

“You are wasting your time,
gentlemen. Why don’t you clear
out? You might as well be reading
a Snortin Gourmand criticism as
trying to preserve world peace,”
spake dean Jojo Wasoon of Arts
and Seance in a welcoming address
to the delegates. “However I might
recommend G. Lowes Dickinson,
Chapters 10-14,” he added. “You
might also write me an essay on
The Storming Of The Bastille and

he
é:
« ?
*
A
4
i
hand it in by March 1ist,as I want

“~ to start my walking tour of The

CASINO

An Odeon Theatre
e

6 Days Starting
Satudray, February 9th

“GUEST
WIFE” —

Starring

#1 CLAUDETTE COLBERT
DON AMECHE

 

 

  

 
  
    
   
 
   
 

   
 
 
 
 

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday
Feb. 11-12

“Christmas In Connecticut”

Wednesday - Thursday

“THIS MAN’S NAVY”
with Wallace Beery

Friday - Saturday
“DESERT SONG”

 

  

 
  

Soon tempers were near the boiling point again. It was difficult to
decide between Canada’s Listless
Parson and Belgium’s Marlin Spike
as coach-general of the U.N.O.
ping-pong team. Dispositions were
momentarily cooled, however, by a
spectacular Acquacade staged on
the melting ice of Buttonmeadow
by resourceful Hairy Zipper. of the
Glum Club. Mr. Zipper’s gala production was financed by an $800,000
grant from the Stewdent Council—
constituting an annual surplus from
gate receipts.

Later in the day, an angry Ernie
Beefin was about to apply a headlock and half-nelson to his stubborn
opponent Muddlehoff — when Residence Dean Stagdollar, sobbing
pitiably, staggered to the rostrum
to announce that an atomic bomb
dropped on Stalag II, had completely vaporized the building and
destroyed his own research notes
on “Macedonian Dietary Habits”
—result of 33 years of concentrated effort.

Atom Bomb Misplaced

“Don’t bother us with your petty
problems, my boy,” grumbled
Muddlehoff as he doodled a hammer and sickle design on a periodic
table. “It was all a mistake. The
bomb was supposed to land on the
library. And now run along and
let us shape the destiny of all
peace-loving peoples.”

But it took Pasha Atwood to
break up the conference. Next day,
the entire U.N.O. trooped over to
his establishment for a special banquet of bologna and pilot-biscuits.
Next day, all but the Big Three
were in hospital—invalided for life.
Only Beefin, Scalds and Muddlehoff remained. But, what could
they do? They had already bickered and squabbled over everything
bickerable and squabbleable. They
were tired of being altruistic, cooperative and self-sacrificing. They
would take a short rest. Yes, the
old globe would darn well have to
get along without them for awhile.

And, besides, it wouldn’t be difficult to find a fourth for bridge.

 

Of all the sad surprises,

There’s nothing to compare
With a treading in the darkness
On a step that wasn’t there.

CAPITOL

Please don’t tell anyone
what Mildred Pierce did—
but see for yourself.

JOAN CRAWFORD

m

 

 

 

 

® HOWDY FOLKS! this week
Knowsey is really tired out—after
yelling at Hockey game (the few
times possible) and devoting a bit
more energy to the more successful basketball games—nice work.

Knowsey paid a little visit to
the secluded abode of Leverman
and Cruikshank not long ago and
glancing thru the window (unintentional!) found out that they
really take advantage of that seclusion...

Some Short Ones:

1,, Charlie Smith left an important document in Amherst last
weekend—not on the techniques of
Engineering we hear!

2. Hal Pearson and Mildred
Greenblatt—Mummmm.

3. It has been suggested that
the thirteen Phi Rho traitors might
start a club called “the Stinkers
Society” —

4. Congratulations Don Warner

and boys, even Knowsey thinks
you’re wonderful.

5. The biggest elbow question
around Dal is “Who is president
of the Huba Huba Club?”

6. The Beaver Club is becoming
much more prominent than the
Horizontal—why not have a competition, boys?

LAW

® SPRING MUST be on its way!
The usually reticent Larry MacLeod has surprised frequenters of
the Law Library with his sudden
preference for Fran Clancy’s table
—or is it those eyes, Larry?
Congratulations to Clint Havey
and Alan Blakeney who have been
elected at the Law Meeting to
represent their class as candidates
for the Student Council’s president
and vice president respectively.
Stu’ Drury and Mark Yeoman will
compete for the job of Law representatives in the Council. It took
us only an hour to vote for these
candidates and we are indeed

 

 

VICTOR

   

Ce ECORDS

To keep in touch with the
newest popular music, make
it a habit to visit

PHINNEYS

reguiarly as new records
are released.

 

   
  
   
  

PHINNEY’S LIMITED
451 Barrington Street

ORPHEUS |

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“CRIME INGO
a

all, there is an engagement to be
announced. The selected ones are
Barbara Scieniwiecz and Phi Chi’s
own Cyril Kincaide. Fountains of
happiness be their lot.

Perhaps the most significant
topic for report, and certainly the
most exemplary achievement is the
news of the Grievance and Suggestion Committee. which was formulated last year, and this year bears
fruit. The idea was to form a
committee of representatives of
the four years of medicine whose
purpose would be to meet with and
expose, in petition form all the
grievances and suggestions for
academic changes that the student
body feels. The first meeting has
come and gone and an enthusiastic
faculty has encouraged the frank
and earnest discussion. What
changes the conference will bring
no one knows. But it is certain
that this realization has everything to be gained.

 

grateful for the efficiency and
smoothness of these _ well-run
meetings.

 

  

  

department of soda-jerkers; any
doctor willtell you of the results
of the remarkable sundaes we
have originated in our research
laboratories.”

Topia Not Radical

,y??

“However, sir’, Dr. Liver continued, “I don’t want you to think
that Topia is a radical institution.
It is quite ordinary—more efficient
of course, but we are planning for
the same sort of world you read
about every day in newspapers and
magazines. For example, our. Science Faculty. The elementary
work is all in post-war advancement.” “Do you know”, he said
beaming, “that we buy an average
of one hundred and thirty-two
push buttons, per student, per
month? All our advance students
are manufacturing atomic bombs
of course.” “Of course’, we replied admiringly. “We also have
a course in elementary madness for
our more brilliant scientists which
proves quite valuable,” added the
brilliant doctor.

Arts Students Not Emaciated

 

Be Smarr Look SMART

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 

@ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcomedandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

4-45

 

 

 

 

 

   
      
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   

Wi,

i,
i,

/) if y
if} Vy b/d f

“Uf

mel

ae
EN

  

 

 
 

   

  

 

 

   

bloody foreigner speak English.
Perhaps, sir, you would care to
look in on some of our advanced
work in Arts? It is all done in
Dismissals of course.” “Of course”
we agreed, as we followed the
brilliant president into a ‘Small
room where an advanced student,
an obviously cultured young girl,
smoking a king-sized cigarette, in
a king-sized holder, was taking an
oral exam in Dismissal.

“I cawn’t get enthused over
Melville”, she was saying. “He
could never get down to earth.”
“And Milton?” she queried, lifting
an eyebrow, shaking an ash of the
cigarette and blowing smoke
through her nose, “I always
thought him a bit of a bore”. “Gad
sir,” said the brilliant Dr. Liver,
“did you notice the inflection of
the voice, the wave of her hand?
Perfection, sir, perfection!”

Engineers Normal

“We have been having some
trouble with our Engineers though;
they refuse to act sub-normal. We
are bickering for the services of
your McGosh to give them some
instruction on splitting infinitives.
But say” he expleded, “you haven’t
met our good old coach, Mr.
Onions. Under our good old coach
athletics at Topia U have become
very—” “Gad sir’, we exploded
right back at him, “this can’t go
on! Calculus calls! we must turn
to Dalhousie and work!”

And so we take our leave of
Topia U., with its bright new institutions, its brilliant president,
and its good old coach. But as we
go we cannot help but feel a lump
in our throats that has not disappeared since we sampled a sundae
at the Pharmacy department. So
we take our leave of the place like
a bat out of hydrogen-sulphide— __
choking.

   
  
  
  
     
 
      
 
  

   
 
   

 
  

   
  
 
     

'aats= = 2 + BT Av 2 — a ——— =
Ces. Ds cae eerie ee, ey
fe A ies pk - [ ' Pi ae CRA Fey i Ts? iP Acre
1 ARES as , - ~ - —_ ae

ST

     

   
     
   

nce
» ae ¥.
- i el Pad

    
 
 
 

     

cop Squad Edge Out

i r | i

 

 

Come from Behind In
Final Frame To Take
| Contest; Jinx is Broken

@ IN A thrill-packed, rugged, basketball game, the Tigers
showed their supporters that they have the stuff to carry them
to an Intercollegiate title, by defeating Mt. Allison 25-23, in
an exhibition game. The largest crowd in years turned out to
cheer the home team to victory in a very fast, hard-fought
match that was close throughout up to the final whistle.
Bengals Switch Defence

The first half showed a novel type of basketball. Both
teams started to use a zone defence type of play, but the Mt.
A. quintet, having had more experience in this method of
attack, blasted the Tiger zone and built up quite a margin In
the score. The Bengals soon switched to an offensive man-toman play which brought immediate results. The score was
gradually whittled down until at half-time it stood at 16-12,
RJ with Mt. A. still in the fore.

eat Dal Presses

 

 

 

   

in 25-23 in Thrilling Tilt BY

 

 

@ WEDNESDAY NIGHT the
monthly meeting and Don Harris, President of the D.A.A.C.
was right in there again pitching for his bleachers in the gym.
He presented some pretty sound reasons why there should be
such seating accommodations.

would the stands in the gvm be a decided asset but also that
they are a necessity.
Despite their efforts Mr. Harris got the group to agree that if
the contractor produces a guarantee that the quality of the
wood will last for at least five years and that the guarantee
passes the scrutineering eye of a legal authority,—the Council

Saturday night in their 25-23 conquest of their arch-rivals of
Mount Allison.
opinion, the game was won fairly and squarely. For the last
four minutes the home team protected the slim two-point lead

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

on the Sidelines

by ALEC FARQUHAR

 

CONGRATULATIONS MR. HARRIS

Students’ Council had its

Lo and behold, after considerthe pro’s and cons, the Council concluded that not only

There were a couple of dissenters.
iN

|

will approve, k

LONG AWAITED WIN a
A long-awaited victory came to the basketball squad last

May we state that contrary to the prevailing

2S Pare Nie Ts me ith ing
; e . The second frame was entirely 5
Ti C t ' e Ne Ww Wi n Streak Wi th different from the first, Dal pressgers on inu . ing the play but having a difficult
time in scoring past their oppo- ,
i 39-33 U pset of League-Leading R. C; A. rr nents zohe. For a while it looked
me 7 sf as though Mt. A. could hold their
e Blair Dunlop Loops 13 Markers fo Lead Team p 7; Gast, :faean-batvtlivee \ beatifal
P n : a ts h they d d th , aces igers ee ls shots by Farquhar, Dunlop and
my. “@ THE TIGERS made it two straight when they droppe Cae : Giffen; put Dal in the lead with
 * highly-touted Air Force quintet 39-33 at the Stad gym on Pe ee abae  serednane. in. be
ye Monday night. The game was close throughout, Air Force DET eo fidei pout Dunlop. led
f being at a disadvantage without their two star players, Wax- the Tigers in successfully ragging
ie man and McLeod. S ee car ee the ball, .with no attempts at
. Lead at Half-Time the: bball arid 2 EICAGT PARSE Bere Se - -— = shooting. Choosing not to break
- The Bengals had quite an edge aalecamci pieventer Bin Eyaee From — | their zone,,Mt. A. failed to get oints
\ in the initial frame and led by recovering it, the game ending, Desuession of the ball .in: the Fates points.
y x Dunlop, who swished four baskets, eee Rea os few minutes and on a free toss by
ig took a five-point lead at the half leat player, on the Dalhousie Eddie Rogers, Dal went on to win

when the score was 25-20. In this
frame as in the following one, it

team was Dunlop, who seored 13
points and played a good defensive
Baine led Air Force with

the game, 25-23.

The game was rough, referee

: was Baine who was the main Bale. | ca Johnny Eeeles calling a total of 38
18 points, Lawrence aiding the personal fouls as each team check
seorer for the Airmen, even Cooley
being unsuccessful in guarding

him.

cause with his defensive strength.
Lineup: Dunlop 13, Farquhar 4,

G. Hart 6, Rogers 10, Cooley 4, A.
Hart 2, Giffen, Knight. |

Dunlop Stars

In the second period the play
“was very even, Dal missing many
beautiful chances through poor
ball-handling and poor shooting;
yet they managed to score the odd
basket and thus hold down the Airmen. However, such men as Padre
Lawrence and Baine were not to
be held down and so they tied up
the score, while Dal had a temporary slump in the play. Suddenly the Tigers came to life and
with Cooley, Regers and Dunlop
scoring, they took a six-point lead
with three minutes to play. Dunlop then started the ragging, of

2 Gales LIGHT UP AND

 

FLASH ...

@ ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT the
Acadia Axemen journeyed to St.
Francis Xavier for scheduled Intercollegiate hockey and hoop tilts.
st. F. X., victors over: Dalhousie
last week by the score of 23-5, continued their high-scoring winning
ways by overwhelming the Axemen by a 15-3 count.

On the basketball court, St. F.X.
also came out on top as they walked.away from the Acadians by a
huge margin, 42-18.

 

LAIR DUNLOP
Starry forward for the Tigers, who
netted 18 points Monday night

Acadia Today

St. F.X. ShowDevasting
Potency as Dalhousie
Given 23-5 Shallacing

@ DALHOUSIE was outplayed by
St. F.X. in hockey last Friday
night, at the Arena, to the tune
of 28-5. Though it was very

 

     

 
 

Yes sir, there’s nothing like a
Sweet Cap to put you in a
relaxed mood when the ‘cram’

: session's over!
? J
ce ¢
——— ee

 
 

 
   
   
 
  
  
   

 

   
  
 

f quickly seen that their opponents
: F : pane ep net. Ge : were out of the Tigers class, it
- for satisfaction—anywhere ... anytime!
F And when you tune in should always make Dalhousians
8 “LIGHT UP AND LISTEN” WITH proud to remember that their
team fought right to the last
- S Ww E E T C A P Oo R A A ur Pa fie the goals would simply
gy CIGARETTES Qe be adding insult to injury, and beYh STATION CHNS Wee sides we haven’t that much space.
‘ Every Thursday Night iS | To change the subject we would
( 10:30 p.m. like to convey our most humble

thanks to the crowd who turned
out for Dal; it is the first time in
years, there has been even a reasonable numbe% of spectators. Also
we would like to present a bouquet
to the President and those Professors who attended the game;
somehow it seems to make the
game more worthwhile.

To come back to the game, it
seemed that the St. F.X. machine
simply kept the Tigers bottled up
in their own end and nearly the
whole of each period. It is noteworthy that the defence seemed to
stop every initial rush of their opponents, but then did not know
uck away from

oak:

 
    
  
    
   
      
 

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT

Youll fo Crist

A YOUNG PEOPLES’ RALLY
Especially Designed for YOUth!

—s : as ee? é zy - oe: ‘
— came es ea
a : ¥ “
/- ‘ 4

 
  

od

‘eit is

  

eee wid potapletely blocked by Ee ny
Irtociennet mats team practically standing”
= eYaaca Wats ie, -.

rds.

ed very close in their attempts to
get hold of the ball. Dunlop deserves much credit for the win by
his display of ball-handling, while
Carl Giffen, Cooley, and Eddie
Rogers, were also outstanding,
grabbing the rebounds off the backboards before Mt. A. could have a
chance. The best player for the
Mounties was Teny Robinson, who
also starred for the Mt. A. tennis
team. He garnered 10 points, and
was a thorn in the Tiger’s side
throughout the game.

Lineup: Dunlop 4, Smith 1, Farquhar 7, G. Hart, E.
Robinsen, Giffen 6,
McDonald 2, A. Hart 2.

Rogers 2,

Cooley 1,

Hoopers, Hockeyists Journey To

For League [ilts

Today both Dalhousie’s basketball and hockey teams go to Acadia
to play. At five o’clock the hoopers
take to the floor to match baskets
with the Red and Black. It is the
first Intercollegiate League game
for the Tigers and they will be
without the services of Ralph
Cooley,. Eddie Rogers who are ineligible for Intercollegiate play.
To fill the guard and centre spot
thus left open, Coach Keith Matthews will take along big Mae
MacDonald, Bernie Oreighton, Jim
Morrow as substitutes.

Last week the highly-touted
Acadia squad took a victory over
Tech by a close margin and lost to
St. F. X. by seore of 42-18. This
indicates that the Axemen should
be “easy pickings” for the Dal

The Tigers, fresh from a victory
over Mt. Allison and R. C. A, F.
are sure of a win.

Immeliately after the hoop fea.
ture, the Bengal hockey squad will
cross sticks with the formidable
Axemen. The Wolfville sextet did
not fare so well on Wednesday
night against the strong St. F. X.
squad as they bowed by the overwhelming score of 15-3. This indicates that it will be a close contest
between Dalhousie and Acadia,
since the Tigers are anxious to redeem themselves after the 23-5
lacing received at the hands of St.
FX. last week.

Basketball: Giffin, MacDonald,
_ AlgiesJ. Merrow, Dunlop, G. Hart,
Fa Creighton. ;
~ Hockey: . e :

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
   
     
     
    
      
   
  

by handling the ball and not attempting to mark up any more
The Mount Allison team, keeping intact their tight
zone defence, made no attempts to recover the ball from their
opponents. Yet Dalhousie’s “supporters” accused their team
of poor sportsmanship. Let us inform those misled people
that it was not poor sportsmanship but merely a display of
smart basketball.
POOR SPORTSMANSHIP?

Also to show certain people that their basketeers are not
such villianious young men as they have supposed—In the
dying minutes of the game a Mount A. player was waived off
the ceurt for commiting five personal fouls and technically the
Mount Allison coach was not allowed to send out another replacement. Yet Carl Giffin, captain of the Tigers went to the
referee-in-chief and requested that the visitors be able to
replace their lost player. Is this a demonstration of pé¢ at
sportsmanship! We think not. |

1 wh

 

Physical Training Classes have
commenced for lst year students,
and all Ist year ex-service personnel are required to participate in
the Sports Program of one hour
weekly. B. A. RALSTON,

Physical Director.

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

e

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

   

DRINK PLENTY OF MILK

Scientists have designated milk
“Nature’s Most Nearly Perfect Food”.

  
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
    
  
   

bl
FARMERS’ LIMITED HALIFAX, N. S.

GAUVIN & GENTZELL

PHOTOGRAPHERS
Ww

90 Spring Garden Road 3-6992

@ Yes, sir, your suit actually FEELS like new
after Cousins have Sanitoned it. Why? Because Sanitoning restores certain materials to
the fabric that give new cloth its rich feel.

@ And, what’s more, this unique dry cleaning
eases out even deeply ingrained soil, grit and
perspiration ... cleans to the very heart of the
fabric fibre. Only Cousins has Sanitone Service
in Halifax.

 

. PLANT CALL OFFICE: ROBIE AT WEST
- © DOWNTOWN: BARRINGTON AT GEORGE

 
