——
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 
   

  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
    
  

ie r= _ . at
eM agape Pi ot

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VOL. LXXVIII

 

Mm the

 yéject as an increase to their com-—

_ the next ten years.

AMERICA’S

 

OLDEST

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 22, 1946

WEEK TO PASS

*

Students Will Approve or

Reject $5 Increase for
Residence, Pool or Rink

e AS THE RFSULT of the plebiscite held on March 5th,
when Dalhousie students named a men’s residence as their

first choice and a swimming pool or a

hockey rink as their

seeond choice for the proposed University war memorial, another plebiscite will be held during examinations week at the
end of April, to enable these students to register their willingness to make a real financial contribution towards the construction of this memorial, according to a decision reached at
a special emergency meeting of the Students’ Council held at

noon Wednesday.

Residence Forthcoming From Other Sources?
“~The men’s residence received overwhelming preference in the March
plebiscite, with the swimming pool and the hockey rink running a close
second and third respectively. As pointed out during a recent forum,
however, the men’s residence may be forthcoming from other sources;
in which event, the students would be compelled to decide on either

r the rink

|

   

  

pulsary Council fee, to be used only
to establish a fund to help finance
the construction of this memorial.
The remainder of the sum necessary will be raised by a special war
memorial campaign carried on
among members of the Alumni. Although not definitely decided upon
yet, it is expected that this levy,
if approved, will be collected over
Construction
on the memorial would not necessarily be held up for this length of

‘ time; but could be commenced as

soon as the means of attaining the
total amount were reasonably assured.
Polling Booth in Gym

The polling booth will be placed
in the Gym during the first three
days of examination week (commencing April 22nd). Ballots and
envelopes will be placed on all
tables. The ballot is to be marked,
folded, and placed in the envelope
The envelope is to bemarked with
the student’s name and placed in

» and

XS ae
ee eet er
‘
*

top ee

for this reason, both these items

<< ie. ‘3 i." <r
=

. “ : "
4 —

”

  

 

Ibtain Cathedral
rrack s forResidence

ee
7 4 MEETING of the Dal students Vet Society was held on
Thursday, March 7th with President Alec Hart in the chair.

Annual reports were submitted
by the various committees, those
of main interest coming from the
Financing, Housing and General
Duties Committees. |

Efforts are being made to ensure
that accommodations will be available for next year, and the possibilities of obtaining Cathedral Barracks is being investiagted.

Jobs are being found for many
student veterans, providing they
are willing to accept marginal positions to tide them over for the
summer.

   
  

 

the ballot box. The results will be
announced before May Ist.

It is possible that the students
in the Law and Medical Schools will
have their part of the plebiscite
conducted earlier. In this event the
results will not.be revealed until
the other returns have been counted.

Pine Hill Wins From Dalhousie
Debaters\in M. I. D. L. Fixture

@ DALHOUSIE debators went

‘down to defeat before a duo of
theologians from Pine Hill, in an
intercollegiate debate held last Saturday night. The Pine Hill team,
consisting of Lawrence’ Toombs
and Blair Colborne, upheld the
negative of the resolution ‘“Resolved that Palestine should be
made a place of refuge for Jews
from Europe”. The Dalhousie team
consisted of Allan Blakeney and
Lloyd Soper, while Clint Havey
acted as chairman.

Al Blakeney, first speaker for
the affirmative, stressed the need
of European Jews for a place of
refuge, and the many features that
Palestine had to commend itself as
such a haven.

Lawrence Toombs, leader of the
Pine Hill team, delved deeply into

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Biblical history to prove that the
news had no historic right to the

land known as Palestine. He further stressed that, inasmuch as the
Arab inhabitants are violently opposed to Jewish immigration, and
are prepared to resist it by force,
Palestine could in no sense be
considered a place of refuge for
the Jews.

Lloyd Soper, Dal’s second speaker, outlined the tremendous advanees which the Jews in Palestine
have made to date, and emphasized
that, by similar agricultural and
industrial projects, Palestine would
be able to absolve all the Jews
from Europe who seek a, haven
there.

Blair Colborne, second speaker
for the negative, hotly contested
this proposition. Treating facts
and figures, he endeavoured to

land, not able to absorb any num-_

ber of immigrants.
Continued on page four

 
  

STUDENT

 

PUBLICATION

 

 

 

No. 20

PLEBISCITE PLANNED FOR EXAM
MEMORIAL LEVY

The Men Behind the Scenes...

 

 

A picture of the Glee Club stage crew, in one of their few inactive

days since the Glee Club started this year.

A great deal of the credit

for the success of this year’s shows is due to their untiring efforts and

skill behind the scenes.

openly, they have done an excellent job.

Although never receiving eredit for their work,

From left to right, standing:

Don Smith, Don Macleod, Jack Quigley, Phil Raymond, Jerry Peffhany.
Kneeling: Howard Norman, Bob Williams, Bill Menchions, Basil Bloomer.
Missing from the picture: U. Velcoft and Daye Gillis.

 

Council Meet, Organize
Investigation into Awards
Athletics, College Spirit

@ NEXT YEAR’S STUDENTS’ COUNCIL has gone into action
already and has planned -a further meeting for May 2, 1946.
At a well-conducted meeting, they discussed a variety of
topics, ranging from athletics to the University Christian Conference, and made appointments to several committees.
Athletics was one of the main subjects brought under
discussion and Prexy Havey reported the findings of the
meeting between students, Alumni, and the Senate Gym Committee members, which information appears elsewhere in the

Gazette.

The Council talked over the idea
of having the position of Physical
Director created and also discussed
the feasibility of changing class

hours in order to facilitate the prac
ticing of Dalhousie varsity teams.
They finally decided to accept
the decision of the Senate Gym
Committee on the former matter
and left the latter topic in abeyance,

Still on the subject of athletics,
the Council appointed three members to form a committee, which
will investigate the set-up of physieal education, ete., at Dalhousie.
Wade, Doig and> Creighton were
appointed to this committee with
Havey as an ex-officio member.

Mingo was instructed to look after the printing of a Freshman
Handbook of about 20 pages,
which would give each new student
an idea as to what is going on at
Dal and whom to contact concerning societies.

Award Committee Appointed

Another vital matter was introduced, when the topic of Awards
was mentioned. Uncertain as to the
exact situation at present, the
Council appointed a committee to
investigate. Included on this committee are Havey, Kirkpatrick,
Wade, Frazee, and Yeoman,

A Cheerleading Committée was

organized, and had as members, .

McLellan, Mingo, D. Dunlop, and a
non-council member, Lloyd Soper,
was appointed to work with them.

 

our attention
A meeting of the Junior. Class
will be held on Tuesday, March 26,
in Room 3 of the Arts Building, at
12 noon. On the agenda will be
election of officers and the report
of the Dance Committee.

Aplications for the positions of
football manager, tennis manager,
and assistant football manager, are
to be sent to Sec. of the D.A.A.C.
Bernie. Creighton, on or before
March 31, 1946.

The annual meeting of the D.A.
A.C. will be held on Wednesday,
March 27, at 1 P.M., in the Chem.
Theatre. Proposed amendments
will be included in the agenda.

® THERE WILL BE a swimming
meet between Stad, Acadia and
Dal at Stad on Monday, March 25.
It will start at 7 P.M.

Senate Committee Meets
Students, Alumni; to Set
U pPhysical Directorship

@ A VERY IMPORTANT meeting took place last Monday
night, when representatives of the Faculty, the Alumni, and
the student body met to discuss the position of athletics at

Dalhousie.

Present at the meeting were: Profs. Maxwell,

Wilson, and Dean Grant of the Senate Gym Committee ; Sam
3alcolm of the Alumni; and for the students—Larry Sutherland, Clint Havey, Dave Doig, Don Harris, Doug Clark, Don
Dunlop, Rollie Frazee, Art Titus, and Eric MacKenzie.

Professor Maxwell introduced
the suggestions of the Gym Committee, which had met the previous
Vhursday. They came to the conclusion that the main problem to
be settled was to clarify the position of the Physical Director at
Dalhousie (a position which does
not at present exist) in regards to
the D.A.A.C. Managing Committee.

The students assumed that the
position would exist next year and,
on that assumption, discussed
recommendations to improve the
position as far as his relations with
the student body. It was felt,
unanimously, that the Director
should have some control over the
activities of the D.A.A.C. and the
Gym Committee brought in a suggeSted amendment to the D.A.A.C,
constitution, which was as follows:

“In future all duties assigned to
the Managing Committee of the
D.A.A.C. will be under the supervision of the Director of Physical
Education at the University; and
that the appointment and control
of managers, coaches, and other
officers, the preparation of) budgets, and the care and purchase of
property shall require his ap
proval,”

The committee further suggested that:

“The Director of Physical Edueation and the Chairman of the

Senate Gym Committee ee on _Athletics shall be (hSiigeultye 1e)
bers of the Managing amit

The students watited some ™

  

of guaranteeing that then inter:

ests would recerve fl consideration in case of important
issue arising, and at the same time,
giving the Director more ‘backing
(Continued on Page Two)

any

 

Dalhousie Named Site
For College Christian
Conference in Jan. ’47
6 LAST SATURDAY afternoon a
committee of students, members of
the faculty, and representatives
from the churches met to plan for
a University Christian Conference
to be held at Dal in January, 1947.
The conference is for the purpose
of presenting a living and practieal Christianity to students. It
will give everyone a chance to find
out what this is that has affected
the world so much in the last 1900
years; what there is about it that
influence; and what
has for us in this
This has been done
at other universities with much
success. The committee will invite
to the campus a group of speakers
who are qualified to talk about
Christianity and its relation to life.

has such an
meaning it
modern world.

aa ae es Ps 5 Sh ef ib ' by
: yi ed. Bee eh. = orn ay ‘ ' 1925, where he ath

Dal’s Loss...

 

..» London’s Gain

@ AT A TIME when the Canadian
population of London, Hng., is being depleted, Dalhousie is sending
one of her sons to help preserve the
spirit of good will engendered by
Canadians during the past six
y ars.
the’. task

is Mr. Edward

Shields, who will attend the Lon- RY

don Schoo! of Economics next terp
on the I. ©. D. E. War Memori
Scholarship.

i

sar Academy... On jrraduating
1941 he entered ing::, with ‘h
3-4 °Sehotarship provided by
Haliburton Chapter of the LO.D.E
After winning a few prizes, such as

the Almond-Welsford Testimonial!
Prize, the Bishop Binney Prize and
the Governor General’s Silver
Medal, Ted graduated from Kings

as a B.A. in 1944. The following
year our young hero became a
member of the Dalhousie Student
3ody, and taking advantage of a
Public Administration Scholarship,
received his Masters degree in
May, 1945. When Ted wasn’t
busv knocking off scholarships and
prizes he found time to edit “The .
King’s Record” and “The Dalhousie
Gazette.” Another of his*numerous posts was secretary of The
Dalhousie Citizen’s Forum,

During the past year Ted has
held the position of Research Asof the Institute of Public
Affairs and edits the publications
“Industrial Relations” and “Municiple Affairs.”

sociate

Ted plans to leave for the UK
sometime this summer and will arrive there during the twelve month

(Continued on page 4)

 

Saunders Elected President as

Sodales

® THE ANNUAL meeting of Sodales was held in Room 4 of the
Arts Building yesterday at noon.
Main item on the agenda was the
election of officers for the coming
term. The results were as follows:

Hon. Pres.—Prof. C. H. Mercer

Pres.—Jim Saunders

Vice-Pres.—Mark Yeoman

Sec.-Treas.—Llody Soper
Reporter for the Gazette—

Harry Rhude.

Another item, which was passed,
was to the effect that faculty debating managers be appointed. on
or before April 2, 1946, otherwise
the executive of the society would
make the appointments.

Minutes of the previous meeting
were read, and then came the
financial report, showing that the
society had spent $112.42 this year.

Choose New Officers

The group had held five meetings
and participated in the M.I.D.L.
Conference held last fall.

Four Major Debates

Sodales took part in four major
debates this year and won only
one, a rather unimpressive record
for a college of Dal’s size.

Kight interfaculty debates were
held with Arts & Science Second
Team winning the trophy.

Among recommendations made
for the following year were these:
that closer co-operation be achieved
between the Gazette and Sodales;
that only those who have the time
take an active part in debating;
that the Executive, plus the man
agers of the faculty debating
groups, form a central planning
committee.

The lucky man assigned to 94

(Ted) @
   

  
  

  

re na act ivities.
, 2 only for the

 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  

one .

ints saint the cient system have
sed; certain quarters asserting that
chub and ena should each receive

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 

S ‘the supreme campus award, given for

i ered to the student body, regardless of

he that | service, and speaking personally
we prefer to have it kept that way.

 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

ent time approximately one hundred

   
 
  
  
  
   

much ‘ability, but who have made
As the situation now stands,

  
 
   

 
 
   
   
  
  
  

   
  
 

i as well” 7 ,
that only th rivelityine in both these. respects
should be ab to wear. this award. Granted that the

  
  
 
     
 

awards. oan ny
But what system coal be introduced that would

 

SONS oppo
ne Be "mean:

rson “willing to ere the time ee

 
  
  
 

  

it: me
that the backbone of every” campus organization
would be made up of those who possessed this ability
- plus two or three years experience in that organization. There would be no resigning after the second
year in order to give others the opportunity to earn
their award. This backbone of ability plus experience

should give the campus much stronger and more
efficient organizations.

Those now receiving the
gold “D’’ would then receive the silver “D”, and that,

as they will be the first to admit, is recognition

enough. Had this system been in practice the last
five years, the number of supreme awards on the
campus now would not exceed fifteen, the number of
minor awards something over a hundred.

In every activity the mere doubling of the present
qualifications for the gold “D” would be practical with
the exception of athletics, There a man should not
be expected to play on a senior varsity team for six
years before receiving his major award. Instead, the
system could be revised so that he receive a silver
“TD” after he has been a member for two years of a
varsity senior team participating in the same sport,
and a gold “D” when he has earned his second silver
“pp”. The minor felt letter might be issued not at
the end of each season, but only with the silver “D”,
a major felt letter only with the gold “D”.

if desired, each activity could be given a silver
“DPD” of a distinctive design, provided the standard
block gold “D” design remained constant. _

Honorary Council “D"s—now given to graduating
students who have performed much executive work
on the campus for which no award is given, or who
have accumulated.’:°number of points in several activities but insufficient in any to merit an award—
could be -climninated by setting up a point system for
all executive offices. Because they involve little real
work, the number of points for some of these positions. would need to be very few, indeed. It showtld
be remembered, however, that the inauguration. of
this system does not entail the inauguration of a new
outlet for distributing “D”s. It merely places the
present honorary Council “D” on av,solid basis by
preventing its award to undeserving persons.

The drafting of a constitution to provide a specific
number of points for all these offices ought to be
handled only by those who have had extensive experience with them. The’ new Council is planning to
classify all campus positions, including athleties and
others for which points are now given, from the view
Make point of the time necessary to carry out properly the
ee ronabilives of these positions. Then they propose

fie eto limit~each student only to those activities to which
@ivhe bas the time to give the requisite attention. Once

 
 
    
 

 
 

=F 7 = , St " igs “ PIS REE BB aioe J i Sek = vee ~ ‘ i re aie 5, Pir ty
would have to make an early start in that activity,”
‘in order to accumulate sufficient points. Only the

hs

iy do make such a classification, they should be

“able to allocate the correct number of points to each

campus office.

 

 

ONG since a learned professor amazed me by
stating and restating with emphasis that the
average university is lagging along about three
~ hundre d years behind the times. He did not take
pains to conceal the fact that he believed Dalhousie
to be an average university. If his view is correct,
: Dalhousie, rather than being twentieth century, is
_ seventeenth. This might be all right in some ways,
v4 were i: not that the educators and leaders of thought
are urging that the universities give leadership to
: these’ troubled. ‘days, being the moulders of opinion
ae that, they are. Serious enough would it be indeed if
_ universities: were but 30 years behind the times—if
* they were still living in the world of 1910; but to
ayn be 300- years behind the times places them in the
aes * eae I,

Ny ;

    
  
    
  
   
     
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

: ee ‘De 0 not judge from this, now, that the study of
ilto oe Mo (se. Eng. 2, Eng. 17M) keeps
itut

Bes that, it is high tie that we stopped.
final examinations oe four weeks

;

More Thoughts in Passing oo...

tion. In the former, the students ruled the roost, in
the latter, the professors. In our age, the board of
governors augment and overtops the authority of the
professors. Herein, J have long thought, lies the chief
reason, perahps, why the modern university is behind
the times: the students have not voice.

If the so-necessary students were to insist upon
the Bologna tradition, I fear “King Charles” would
lose his head—the board of governors would lose its
“divine right”. The Bologna tradition represents an
unhealthy extreme, we know. Does not the present
set-up represent, however, as unhealthy an opposite
extreme? To lop off King Charles’ head were foolish,
but surely an American Revolution of sorts is long
since due in university life.

Students are an essential part of a university
and their financial support contributes much to the
maintenance. It is not unreasonable, then, to ask
that each section of the student body have direct
representation of the board of governors and on the
faculty. The students’ time and the students’ money
make possible the professors’ classes and, to a large
extent, the professors’ salaries. It is not unreasonable, then, to ask that machinery be set up
whereby ineffecient courses and professors might be
dealth with.

If I am not beheaded for treason for this outburst,
[ may have some more thoughts in passing.

‘—COS

ing all the while under trying circumstances.. Ever
since Munro Day they have been casting longing eyes
at their books, anxious to renew a much delayed acquaintance, and it was with a genuine sigh of relief

_ that they delivered this week’s copy to the printers.

It is our earnest hope that their sacrifice for THE
GAZETTE will not prove fatal.

Not wishing to prolong farewells, we take this
opportunity also to thank the.student body for tolerating our weak attempts at journalism during these
twenty issues. You have been very gentle with us,

and we entreat you to receive the efforts of next

year’s staff with similar patience and composure.

his early ship ‘Te would deat as)

America’s Oldest Student. Publication.

For more than 76 years devoted
the interests of the student body.

Staff
Editor ...... -++-++-» Bill Mingo

 

Business Manager ..Bob McCleave
Associate ar ale
News ...... . Blair Dunlop
Don Harris
BVOTee issn ck . Alec Farquhar
Features ....... ... -Al Lomas
Literary ....... Morton Norman

Photography ... Don Morrison
Cartoons—Bob Tuck.
Circulation—Nita Sideris

Mary Farquhar

Senate...

(Continued from Page One)
and therefore added an additional
clause:

“In case of a difference of opinion between the Managing Committee and the Physical Director,
the matter shall be referred to the
Senate Gym Committee on Athletics.”’

One point pressed by the students present, was the matter of
faculty recognition, and no definite
answer was forthcoming. The
problem of practice hours was diseussed briefly and was left for a
future meeting.

The annual meeting of the D.A.
A.C. to be held on Wednesday,
March 27 will be ‘asked to discuss and vote on the proposed
amendments,

Poet's Corner

THERE blooms a flow’r that
burns like fire

In the blackened wine of night,

Its purple plumes e’er chant
and sway

With drowsy, mesmeric rite;

 

And on the onyx leaves lie

drops
That glitter and seem to rise
But never move and never
change, .
Like sleepless, watching eyes.
OENONE.

 

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE,
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

NURSERIES Limited...
381 earrincton sT- HALIFAX

 

GRADUATION GIFT?

It’s an old custom—and a very
nice one—to accompany good
wishes with a gift.

Your family, for instance,
might .be' glad to know that
you’d like a Birks Challenger—
the best buy in fine watches.

Henry Birks and Sons
Limited
Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

Halifax

Barrington St. 
 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

Thomas Wallace

Sons and Daughters
Sight Specialists

— aff Be

Y.M.C.A. Building,
Phone 3-6881

Halifax

 

 

  

SSS SS

SS

 

 
 
  
 

 

for the
Smartest Fashions
in Gollege Clothes

The Robert Simpson Eastern Limited

 

 

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

It was a
in peace: “Say Schwartz and be Sure”.
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

‘good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan

We urge it for

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

@ Yes, sir, your sult actually FEELS like new
after Cousins have Sanitoned it. Why? Because Sanitoning restores certain materials to
the fabric that give new cloth its rich feel.

And, what’s more, this unique dry cleaning
eases out even deeply ingrained soil, grit and
perspiration ... cleans to the very heart of the

fabric fibre. Only Cousins has Sanitone Service
ey eae

bbixecelttir .
» ey ,

PLANT CALL OFFICE: ROBIE AT WEST
DOWNTOWN: BARRINGTON AT GEORGE

Milk is Very Wholesome

Besides containing all of the known vitamins, milk
is richer than any other food in caleium and riboflavin,
” two nutrients most often lacking in the average

Ww

FARMERS’ LIMITED HALIFAX, N. S.

 

Balhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern

Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees

of M.A., M.Sc,

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the

courses,

The Professional Faculties
in

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.

in the B.Sc, course, about $190 a year

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women. - C
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 
   
 

 

 

 

    
   
 
 
  

Te
Ib hit

fy

mK

5 "ith

wk
ae er, '

jk

   

eel Bet eat

we

  
  
  

‘Med Notes
> SPRING must be really here
vhen columns such as these are
aced with such a dearth of maferial. For with spring comes the ©
Pee. Ok Seams, Bud with ‘the ® READERS of columns around

hreat of the latter only the brave :
ntave forth to the ‘ie functions ®"¢ about this page have no doubt
S found many tearful and tearless

oh ve ant, bask farewells scattered throughout its
prlowever, to the ab BaRSt makeup in this, the last issue of
ball tournaments at Dal, represen- the Gazette. Since the term is

a a the gee ele- still far from finished, nothing of
Bette, 0 edicine did journey the sort will be dispensed in this

Gym-wWard to see their former alma pot HURELRAL ‘a Peug’ wosde oe
naters contest in the meet. It was Preheat

E last flin ¢ etiving: asd a feeble congratulation to Bryce, whose

Bee at that. But to all good things pre-season training showed up well
; r in the boxing meet at U.N.B.

P ‘ome puat we ‘ A new twelve-second man has
\ Our good friend Herb MacWil- been discovered among the ranks
ety en eee recently holding in of the Shack stalwarts in the perhis arms (while dancing!) a dark son of Mike, who spent the weekay d beguiling wy. Pein eae end testing the tortional strength
a. what spring does to a young of his jaw-bone. However, Mike
ee pany | claims the honour of being the only
“Margot! Margot!” they cried in

e beauty contest preliminaries

    
  

 
 
  
 
  
 
   
     
  
  
  
    
   
   
   
  
  
   

 
 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 

ospital, doing so neatly by break
ew. policy

she lives

{ to » date

er up. Ty, seems that the last

young lady were oa Pith was

a very expensive proposition, the
unfortunate Pond being forced to
shell out two bucks per date for
taxi fare. |

The Reverend has taken up
Swimming early this year. He. re/ ports having found a private pool
in which he practices diving,
especially in the business of watch

- salvage.

* Oakley wishes it to be known
that any statements to the effect
that he was offered membership in
the Horizontal Club is merely a
malicious rumour. “I’m a strong
vertical,” says Oak, “Ask practieally anybody.”

The quality of Fiske’s breakfasts
has been questioned by sundry of
the more delicate shacksters, who

ie
a

cre a 5 Seer

   

Yes, spring idee he eee When
he Med Column has to compete
vith the March of Grime. Our
Pologies, Knowsey, but there was
a0 other way,

   

0 Wish ie pencil

were smooth as

     
 
  

 

aA
> smooth can be?
f 4 Wish the point
1" would last and last.
| and LA T?
>] 0 Wish it were the
| very finest pencil
“i 6 for drawing and
a}

writing you ever
laid hands on?

 

  

| Make your wish
} come true—

 
 

  

 

Col. Dimedaughter Saves

McGosh From Gallows;
Escapes To The Punjab

By J. CRICKET McGOSH
(by Cable from The Punjab)

@® ‘TWAS A JOLLY Spring day as Col. Jake Dimedaughter of
the 8th Punjab Hussars brought his safari to a halt on the
familiar sward of Buttonmeadow. He’d at last come to rest at
the old Alma Momma bearing sundry spoils from his campaigns
in the Punjab, including a pair of arm-length mauve gloves—
a gift to Hovelite Boobie Whittle from the Maharani of Limpopo. But, jove, something was amiss! Looked like a lynching

man to send at opponent to the
Big OcCasion:..
have a Coke

Coca-Cola Ltd.

party gather ed up yonder.

Horns were blowing, banners

fly
ing and a festive spirit was in the air.

“Why the celebration?” quoth

the Colonel.
MecGosh’s Death Knell

“Tis the death knell of J. Cricket
McGosh . . . we’re going to hang
the blighter,” said Anguish Mogul
Chully Beanut as he supervised the
seating arrangement about a blackand-gold draped scaffold. “Oh,
Miss Schmidt, did you post the
‘half-holdiday’ notices?’” —

Yes, ’twas a colorful spectacle
as crowds cheered, Winner’s Collegians tooted joyfully, and the
Hovel girls squatted about the
gallows knitting furiously like the
Parisian hags who haunted the
guillotine in days of yore.

At 4.23 p.m., the doomed chronicler, shaven, bent and broken, was
led ceremoniously to the scaffold by
Pres. Auto and Bored Chairman
Lorry, both clad in academic dress.

“I’ve got some good noose for
you, McGosh”, quoth Auto. “ ..
Try it on for size.”

“But I don’t wanna die, Prexie,”
spake McGosh. “I didn’t mean
nuttin I said in me column. I’m a
D-A-L man. I aint got nuttin
against Zipper, Hinterland, Itehybald and the rest. Why, I think
they’re simply graaaaaaaand.”

Stripped of Insignia

“To complete your humiliation,
my boy,” quoth Auto, “T shall strip
your academic insignia. Gimme
your sheep-skin and Stewdents Directory and we'll burn ’em in the
bon-fire along with your soccer
boots and sundry theses for Pedagogue G. Laffyville . . . Gee, this
is more fun than-a pienic!”

“Before zis fellow gets it in zee
neck I vant him to know zat zee
‘Dream of Love’ was a sing of
beauty and zat I resent zee remarks he made in zee Gazoot,”
screamed Glum Club immortal
Hairy Zipper as he distributed
Gold D’s to his underlings.

“Yeah ... me too,” quoth Bleary
Hinterland, “cause our fellers done
a wunnerful job on the Council and
McGosh aint bin fair to them... ”

“Et. ego vult dicere Jaeobum

 

have requested that toast or something be substituted for eggs in
the future in Mitchell’s diet.

GaN.
ee

—- Halifax

Cricketum McGoshum moronum et
imbicellum esse,” spake Classics
oldster Major Loggin, long-time
martyr of McGosh diatribes. ‘“Necesse est illi solid Jackson boogie
woogie jivere.”

“Just as well you’re dying before
the next war, McGosh,” sobbed Din
Walsoon of Arts and Seance.
“Life’s not worth living and there’s
no hope for the world.’’

“Maybe you’d like to take my
place, sah,” suggested McGosh.

“Oh, no! Can’t miss tomorrow’s
meeting of the Library Committee.
Gotta order a dozen more biogra
phies of ‘Robert Baldwin.’ An
amazing book...”

“Please, Prexie Auto,” wailed
McGosh, “I don’t wanna die. I’m

a D-A-L man... honest injun.”

“Pity, pity” ... retorted Auto,
“but we’ve all gotta go sometime.
It’s getting late and I’ve a meeting
with faithful Miss Henny. Shall I
remember you to her?”

Alma Martyr Saved
- As the noose tightened about the
hapless neck of MeGosh and Kem
Boss Cull Casket prepared to
spring the trap-door, Col. Jake
Dimedaughter mustered his safari
and galloped towards the scaffold
on his fine Punjab charger.

“Jove, this isn’t British, you
know!” he shouted. “In the Punjab
we'd have spared the life of this
hapless wretch . . . and it’s not
cricket to make an alma martyr of
a Britisher in the colonies. Unhand him, you cads!”

So saying, Dimedaughter grabbed the limp body of MeGosh and
rode away towards the Punjab
chanting an Indjun folk-song,

And so the life of this stalwart
chronicler has been saved for posterity. Safe from the persecutions
of his alma momma, J. Cricket

-MeGosh lives today in a modest

grass hut in the Punjab. Espoused
to a Zambesi native, and pater of
numerous little McGoshes, he operates a cocanut plantation, and is an
honored and respected member of
the community.

In his spare time he translates
his Gazoot chronicles into colloquial Punjab for edification of the
“lesser breeds without the law.”

 

® AS KNOWSEY promised, this
week he gets down on his hands
and knees and admits who he is.
By this time almost everyone has
guessed at least one of us, as even
Knowsey finds it difficult to remain anonymous.

This year Knowsey was three
girls—not because the female race
is more inquisitive and prying—O
no! not that! — but because the
females are gradually taking over
the world in general (sounds good
anyway).

Anyway, we sincerely apologize

Lou Smith . .

Makes The Gazette a Reality

® TO DALHOUSIANS who don’t
know him, Lou Smith deserves an
introduction and a fan-fare, Genial
boss-man of ‘McCurdy’s composing
room, Lou is, and always has been,
the main reason why The Gazette
has managed to survive its trials
and tribulations, to roll off the
presses each week of the college
year in a reasonable way, shape
and form,

To us on The Gazette staff, he is
a sort of miracle-man with supernatural powers of toleration and
self-control. Despite the stress
and strain involved in his association with our journal, Lou Smith
cheerfully resigns Himself to the
inevitable and takes the perplexing
ways and means of the Gazette
clan in his stride. For he’s been
nursing. and coddling our publication since Heck was a Pup and
Mingo was in swaddling clothes
(and that’s longer ago than Haveyites would have you believe).

Lou knows the ins and outs of
the Dal scene to the extent that
he can decipher the dirty, torn and
shoddy remnants of Gazette copy,
be it a missile from “Knowsey” or
an item on the S.C.M. In fact,
when Gazetteers run out of copy |
paper (Shredded Wheat cards and |
“Pharos” blotters), and send in a.

half-completed scrawl of legible [Fa
hieroglyphics, Lou simply adds — She

word here and there, pencils in a
few flourishes, and saves the day.
Only recently, McCurdy’s was
turned inside out and upside down
in a frantic effort to locate missing
Sports copy. Linotype machines
stopped clicking and presses step
ORPHEUS
Mon., Tues., Wed., March 25-27
“SONG OF OLD WYOMING”

and
“WOMEN WHO CAME BACK”

   
    
  
 
  

 

 

Thurs., Fri., Sat., March 28-30

“CLUB HAVANA” and
“NORTHWEST PASSAGE”

CASINO

An Odeon Theatre
*

  

 

STARTING SATURDAY

DEANNA
DURBIN

in

“Because of Him”

 

 

 

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
l |

A YOUNG PEOPLES’ RALLY
Especially Designed for YOUth!

Ww

The SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND, Morris & South Park
Il’S INTERDENOMINATIONAL !

ais eet Te

      
 
   
 
   
 
  
   
     
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
     
  
    
   
   
   
    
   
  
  
    
  
    
    
    
   
  
     
     
  
   
    
   
  
   
     
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
   
     
  
   
  
 
    
   
 
   
   
 
 
 

to all people who feel that we have
slandered their lily-white pureness
in our column (and believe me,
there are some!)

I think we all agree that without a scandal column, a college
paper would be pretty dry.

We take this opportunity of
wishing you all good luck in your
exams.

The Knowsey Ones:

WIN SHEPPARD
ELSIE COLEMAN
MARGOT ROSS

The Chap Who

ped rolling as Lou led the McCurdy
staff and a corps of anxious Gazetteers on a systematic search of the
premises. It looked like a game of
“button, button, who’s got the button?” with young, old and indifferent groping about hither and
yon in despair. At an appropriate
moment, a cry of “Eureka” shot
forth as the editor discovered he'd
had the copy in his pants pocket
all the time.

Yes, normal men woula
since have been gracing a cell in
an institution. But not Lou Smith,
He appreciates and tolerates the
short-comings of campus journal- _
ism and has a genuin e, longstanding interest in Th® Gazette
and the university it re) presents,

fous bt

4
a
2
j
|

Inasmuch as changin g our:
paper’s name-plate to “The Lou. at
show our appreciation by award- |
ful for all he has done in the past i
counsel for many years to come,

Smith Gazette’ would be an un
constitutional move, we decided to |
ing him an Honorary Geld ‘D’ on
Munro Day. We’re sincerely grateand trust The Gazette may have.
the benefit of his experience and
For people like Lou , Smith are
ey nd, %, between.

 
 
  

wy Ee eet

 

    

135 HOLLIS Saag
“~ 29 COBURG ROAD
@

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

OXFORD ,
Mon., Tues., Wed., March 25-27

“OVER 21”

with Irene Dunne
and Alexander Knox

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“WOMEN in the WINDOW” —
. Joan Bennett and
Edward G. Robinsen

“HIT oo HAY”
Judy Canova

CAPITOL |

Friday and Sat, March 22-23

“SAILOR TAKES
A WIFE”
with
ROBERT WALKER
JUNE ALLYSON
&
Monday to Saturday, Mar. 25-30
ERROL FLYNN
ALEXIS SMITH

sass BER

“SAN ANTONIO”

in Technicolor

 

     
   

   

  

      
   
      
  
 
    
 
  
  

  
  

7.45

  
    
      

 
   

  
 

 

 

. age Play to Capture Herald Trophy;
Take Both Intercollegiate and Meet Titles

eo THE FIRST BASKETBALL tournament ever to be held at Dalhousie was an outstanding

success and turned out to be the highlight of the sporting season at Dal.

Large crowds

attended each game although being handicapped by poor seating arrangements, chairs being

very unsuitable for the occasion.
which raced through three teams without a defeat,

_ giate title from St. F.X. on Friday night.
? On Friday evening U.N.B. defeated St. F. X. 58-44, Dal defeated Kings 40-28, and

Mt. A. defeated Acadia 37-22. On Saturday morning U.N.B. defeated Dal 43-35, and Mt. A.

defeated St. F.X. 30-22. -On Saturday afternoon Acadia defeated Kings 42
The tournament was won by the strong U.N.B. quintet
and also copped the Maritime Intercolle
23. On Saturday

evening a defeated St. F.X. 28-19, and U.N.B. defeated Mt. A. 42-24.

 

 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

ony ae ges
Aas allo
vl a

Pal 35; U.N.B, 43

giving their worst exhibile season the night before,
offered their best show
did everything but de= powerful New Brunswick
is ht fast match on Saturday

ae the hours of practice spent during the week.
ast-minute entry and only having starry Alfie Cunningham as a strong scoring threat.
-gave little sign of fight, Eddie Rogers being the only one to put up a successful
Rogers gave a beautiful exhibition of basket1@ here, there, and everywhere, and receiving little aid from the rest of his team.

siv. , garnering 25 of his teams 36 points.
mning am marked up 13 points, being very potent on his set shots and angle shots.

DAL 40: KINGS 28

With three minutes to go, the
Bengals had the score tied 338-33
and it looked as though they were
going to give U.N.B. their first defeat in two years, but this was not
to be. With Owens doing the scoring and Stothart setting up blocks,

‘The Dal-Kings game was a poorly-contested match, the Tigers producing little results
Kings also gave little competition, being a

The

 

Frosh Win ’46 Hoop
Crown By Defeating
Law 55-31 In Final

FIRST
ITIME BASKETBALL MEET

Boys s From “Up The Hill” Show Classy

 

Four Sport...

Star

@® Ralph Blakeney, ever-smiling
Science student who this year has
excelled in no less than four sports
at Dalhousie. Last fall he was
doing double duty as a high-scoring forward on the soccer eleven
and effective hooker on the Varsity
Football squad. Then when winter

 

renee

 

On the Sidelines

3y ALEX FARQUHAR

  

TOURNAMENT HUGE
® AS PREDICTED, last week’s first Intercollegiate

SUCCESS

3asketball ‘Tourna
 
   

ment was a huge success and gives great promise of becoming an annual ©

affair.

campus, and orchids to Deak Grant who was in charge of accommo=
dations for. the visitors—no complaints were heard concerning thé
hospitality accorded the tourney performers,

U.N. B. TOPS

Also as expected, the U.N.B. squad carried off all the honors, though ™

Many bouquets are in order for Don Harris, who labored hard |
and earnestly to bring the other Maritime colleges to Dalhousie’s fair

ioe
¥:

the last year’s Dominion Intermediate champs had some pretty tense 9%
moments in the tussle with Dalhousie which they managed to cop only }{

in the last two minutes with a frenzied attack which netted four quick
baskets. The newly crowned Intercollegiate and
displayed superlative condition, classy ball-handling, stylish finesse in
their floor play, and the polished finish that goes with champions,
Though Stothart and Owens were standout performers, individual effort
just doesn’t go with Howie Ryans’
play and keeping possession of the ball.
and a fine lot of fellows.

They are a pleasure to watch

The score 48-35, is no the Brunswickans netted five quick @® ON TUESDAY the Frosh sas ; re Ko eaicts selina bees pS
fiom of the play, Dal holding haskets to the Tigers one, thus basketball team won the 1946 ree cycling Bs Be nes Pete Saree meer ity en fo
on es iiestiadh), Wie; ending the match, 48-25. Hecksieaih \edewac by. defeating his interests to the ice rink and Dalhousie had some satisfaction though, in that her baskéteer$

 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
 

at being unable to find the
PF many occasions.

despite the deficit in score
alt , 22-11. U.N.B. used a
fast break type of play, with
Mave Stothart being on top
cet many times on end:

 
  
  
 
  
  

Epon ame coach Maceced reliable Ralph Cooley
. t and was successful in
the U.N.B. star to 2 points
i, With their backs to
li, the Tigers put on a dead drive that steadily de‘the margin and_ finally
ne the surprised opponents.

Wl inest Quality
orts Equipment

 

* points,

 
   
  
   
 
 
 
   

Dal 28; St. F.X. 19
The ‘Tigers ended their basket
doubt as to the better team. Although falling behind 15-9 at the
half, the Bengals produced a
splendid effort that soon overcame

their contestants and then went on

j slowly trounce the Antigonish
epsters.

"Again it was Eddie Rogers who
@ the Tiger offensive with 11
captain Carl Giffen being
very strong in his defensive role.
It was a tight shifting zone that
hewildered St. F.X., the first time
this year that Dalhousie has successfully put this type of play into
effect.

Regarding the whole tournament,
it was a great affair and gives
promise of becoming even greater
in the future. High scorer of the
tourney was Eddie Rogers with 52
points. Dave Stothart of U.N.B.

jlacing second with 40 markers. a ae eRe ie AeA j ; . high standard of the debate. This .

Stor was the best player on mauiback 4; Morrow 9; Rogers - demolish them in the ‘second with debate marked Dalhousie’s final de The student body joins in wish

. ; } s a > , Wo. ; oO is : t a i z Jt : < ¥ c : : “ io . s a =

the floor, showing much ingenuity Law: Mitchell 8: Hatfield 9: Far Zs a a take the total round bate in this year’s Maritime In- ing Ted the greatest success if

4 ° € . =f - . « ‘ Wy Oe ata ys ° » .
in his play and outclassing his op- woars 9: C-Smith 11: Wilsc sy 3 yy ee and stax tercollegiate Debating League both his future academic and pub ,
§ ri a al> ; i. Soc AVE i 5 Pea 7
ponents by a wide margin. Much a eevee, On. Bloigs -recetved the '/Agch edule. crawling activities.

credit for the tournament ‘should
zo to the D.A.A.C. and especially
to Don Harris, who has worked
very hard for its success and whose
work deserves much praise.

Kings: Dunlop 4, Smith 4, Roger

Lineups: Kings: Dunlop 4, Smith
4, Rogers 25, Creighton 2, Robinson 2, Farquhar 138, Giffen 1,
Knight, MacDonald 1, Cooley.

Law 55-31, after winning the first
game 28-25, thus winning the total

The first half opened slowly,
with both teams playing carefully.
The Law team played hard and
tried to stop all the Frosh scoring .
attempts and in doing so had 13
penalties called against them.
Frosh were led by McKay and
Morrow with eight and five points.
Roddam with four points was the
best man for Law.

In the second half the Frosh, led
by Hannington, built up a large
lead but Law, led by C-Smith cut
it down to ten points. Frosh then
settled down and played careful
ball and coasted to an easy victory. Hannington with 18 points
and McKay and Henderson with 11
each, led the Frosh team. C-Smith
with 11 and Hatfield with 9, were
the pick of the losers.

Frosh: Hannington 18; MacLeod;
Henderson 11; MacKenzie; MacKay

Hickman; Roddam 6.

cage court, gaining a forward
berth on the Tiger ice squad and

count of himself.

Also plays a nice game of badmintom and played a nice second
base for the City Junior softball
champs last summer. Can be relied on on the cinder paths as well
as a sprinter—and has come pretty
close to the 10-second mark for the
100 several times.

 

Law Swamp Arts & Sc.
15-2 toWinHockeyTitle

® INTERFAC Hockey champion
for the 1945-46 is the team bearing the colors of the Law faculty.
Law won the title in convincing
manner, going through the semifinal by brushing aside the Med
sextet by a score of 6-4 and meeting the Arts & Science squad in
the finals only to whip the Studleyites 4—2 in the first set-to and

trophy on behalf of his team.

 

@® SERVICEMEN who have

returned to University will

find that their clothing needs for re- entry into civilian

life—whether sporting

, collegiate, or social wear—can

be smartly met from our full lines of Clothing.
@ DROP in and see our stock at ..

SHANE’S MEN’S WEAR SHOP

second best team in Maritime College basketball}
F.X. with a decisive 28-19
Another bright spot

proved themselves the
that they redeemed themselvs against St.
victory, and that they won the Consolation series.

E ; Ree uard “spot on the Intermediate
RP : ; oint series 83-56. Therefore the ® : ise :
first half, the Tigers ball season by pasting their In- ante DLR ae hehe hoop team. Later in the year ©n Dalhousie’s record is that star forward Eddie Rogers proved himself
Se Ueonenyts, zo AT. tercollegiate rivals, St. F.X., in a class for the second straight year Ralph was moved up to Senior 4 outstanding player of the meet and led all scorers by quite a margin
@ seemed destined for a GQnesided affair that left little ~“~ é : : 1. competition and gave a good ac-. in chalking up 52 points for three games.

THE END

Dalhousie’s sports menu for the year has now been consumed. Soir
of the Tiger teams met with doubtful success but we can console ours
selves with the fact that they showed superiority in two fields as they
are now both Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis and Badminton champs
. . The footballers gained sweet revenge and satisfaction when they
whipped a favored Acadian fifteen in @ return match ... The hockeyists
upset the Acadia applecart with ja splashing 7-2 Hetony after having
been soundly’ trounced -at Wolfville’ . os Pilger teams -show’s~arkedt

promise of. meen championship téans next season in all’ acy
ments sinée ery f anor earn are bene Jost ‘through graduation. * aes

 

Dal’s Loss...

(Continued from page 1)

Pine Hill...

(Continued from page 1)

The judges, Mr. G. Ai Cowan,
Mr. Maurice and Mr,
Lloyd Shaw, the decision to
Pine Hill.

Prof. Mercer, Honorary President of Sodales Debating Society,
complimented the debators on the

rainy season. He has already begun to worry about accommodation
but I feel sure that the ex-servicemen on the campus can supply him
with the necessary reference. (All
addresses and phone numbers may
ha submitted to the Gazette offices

Keating,
gave

 

  

EATON’S

  

Book Department

charges—they concentrate on team”

Tournament titlists ~

mite

U.N.B.: Dunlop 11, Smith, Rog- 112 Spring Garden Road
ers 11, Creighton, Robinson, Farquhar, Giffen 3, Knight, MacDonald

4, Cooley 6.

    

| Shurneys Lyniled

456 Barrington Street
Halifax, N. 8S.

Located on the Main Floor

   
  
 
  
   
   
    

AFTER MUNRO DAY
COMES E-DAY!

The facts have to be faced, Examinations are only five weeks
away. Students will be busier than ever, getting into the grind
that paves the road to successful. scholarship.

Offers a Wide Range of

Titles, for Your Selection

 

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

J" it’s reading matter you want—be sure to visit EATON’S!

. Our Book Department, on the Main Floor, offers a grand
selection of titles, including both fiction and non-fiction. Drop
in at any time and browse around.—Choose books to enrich vourl
own library—or for prizes and gifts!

With the steady plugging, there naturally comes the “break”,
when you have a cigarette, or join in a brief “bul! session’. You
can always give your morale a lift and get inspiration for the task
that lies ahead of you by giving the people at home a call, or a
friend that lives out of the city. They can give you the local news,
and a friendly encouragement towards those big tests.

 

e

1" fn 7 a ue ey y* 2/ mae ay yp
Maritime Telegraph and Telephone Company Limited are ever HATON’S Book Department—Main Floor
ready with their long-distance service to give you this service.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone Co., Ltd.

* §8-92 Hollis Street

©

LIMITED

Pe j
&

LT EE Lowe
Cay UTS
Soe QuaALlLt 7a

MARITIMES

Platina Binsin 5

 

 

 
