i
at
y A
ya ie

  

 

  

<a

a You. LXXVIL

A

ae

ae ‘Attend Conference

tide),

 

oe LARRY SUTHERLAND

the Students’ 
 

a}

An

served by the Hall girls.

’ ~ French.

_ —s:present.
a? «

the possible presentation
- comedy farce by Moliere.

w

Chemists at Dalhousie’ _
Hold Initial Meeting
® A MEETING of the Dalhousie
| Student Chapter of the Chemical
_ Institute of Canada was held on
October 30, with R. M. MacDonald,

Chairman, presiding.
‘a8 Officers elected were:

a
\

Jean Noftle—Treasurer —

Alex Stewart—Member at Large
Tentative plans for the coming
year include visits to the Mersey
Pulp and Paper Company plant at

- Liverpool and the Imperial Oil
eh plant at Imperoyal; A series of
_ moving pictures showing the various phases of Chemical Industry
be also a mutual address system
. bit will comnience i in the second

eS

Be) is ue,

 

ie IT HAS BEEN brought to our
BS > attention by Miss Prickler, the
or ue the Library will be

 
 

 

BY _ President, and another member of
be Council to attend
» N.F.CU.S. meeting in Montreal.

— Cercle Francais Has

Entertaining Program;
j , Many Students: Attend

er ® UNDER THE genial direction
of Miss LaFeuille, the first term
meeting of Le Cercle Francais Society was held last Thursday afternoon at Shirreff Hall with a large
number of students in attendance.
informal and entertaining
program including. a variety of
_ French songs and games was topped off with delicious refreshments
Each
and every member contributed to
the success of the proceedings
which were conducted entirely in
Jim Saunders, president
for the ’45-’46 season, was in the
__ ehair and gave a short address of
. welcome to the many members

Plans next term call for more
frequent’ meetings of the club and
of a

 

Stirling Whiteway—Secretary

a4 i
6 * : ; 1 »

  

OLDEST

   
 

STUDENT

   

    

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 30, 1945

Spirited Arguments Varied On

Glee Club Presentation For
Post-Xmas Term

® AN OPEN AND SPIRITED discussion on Glee Club plans
and problems highlighted yesterday’s forum meeting in the

Chem Theatre.

An overwhelming vote of confidence was

voiced in the present society executive, but there were many

dissenting opinions on the Glee Club’s

next year.

ambitious program for

Some felt the inclusion of an operetta in the post-Christmas schedule would be beyond the time and talent of Dal
housie students.

Others felt the dates of presentation should

be advanced to allow for more rehearsals.

However, President Zappler expressed confidence that,
backed by wholehearted support from the student body, the
program would be an immense success.

Proceedings closed with a motion “that next term’s Glee
Club program be supported by the student body, provided that
the Glee Club Executive is convinced after careful consideration that the program can be put through successfully.”

This motion rightly places entire responsibility in the lap

of the society executive.

 

Warm Feeling Toward Alma
Mater At New York Dal Club

® DALHOUSIANS IN NEW YORK CITY and New York
area have a great devotion to their Alma Mater’, said President A. E. Kerr in an interview following his return from the

metropolis where he spent

several days with Dalhousie

graduates and visiting Foundations.

Addresses Dalhousie Club

While in New York he addressed
a meeting of the Dalhousie Club.
Dal graduates from as far west as
Pittsburg journeyed to New York
for the meeting, held in the Canadian Club in the Waldorf-Astoria
Hotel. The President was accompanied in New York by Lt.-Col.
K. C, Laurie, head of the Board of
Directors. Both expressed their
delight in discovering the warm
interest in Dalhousie that prevails
among graduates in New York.
Honorable C. J. Birchall, K.C.
(Class of 999) and former High
Comissioner to South Africa, was
also present.

The first evening in New York
was spent with several members
of the executive of Dalhousie Club.
The following morning, November
21, a visit was made to the Rockefeller Foundation, which has made

gifts of more than $250,000 to Dalhousie since 1920. In that year a

donation of $500,000 was made for ~

the Medical School. ‘We found the
officials of the Foundation very interested in the welfare of the Maritime community”, the President
said. —

Visits Carnegie Foundation

Following luncheon with John
Dunlop, (Class of ’22) and several
other graduates, Carnegie Foundation was visited. This corporation
has contributed almost $2,000,000
to the University, including $500,000 in 1918 for damage to the
buildings in the 1917 explosion. At
one time, Dr. Kerr said, the Carnegie Corporation*appropriated 1-15
of the annual income of institutions of higher education on the
continent, but through increased
enrolments, the appropriation has
been reduced to 1+140.

PUBLICATION

No. 9

 

Government Fails To
Realize Necessity Of

Program For Housing

@® AFTER listening to the rather
unusual Citizens Forum Broadcast
Tuesday, 27th on, “Where Are The
Houses Coming From”, the Dalhousie Forum discussed this vital
national problem.

It was believed that there was
not the feeling of emergency that
should accompany such a national
erisis. Since 1931, Canada has not
been building enough houses to
meet the needs of its population,
and since 1941 this need has become ucute. According to a Gallup
Pole taken recently, 22% of the
population hope to build their own
homes as soon as possible. This
means, that, perhaps, 500,000
homes will have to be built, and
built quickly.

Low-Cost Housing

It would appear, however, that
the cost of a house even at prewar levels is too great for a large
percentage of the population, in the
low income brackets to undertake.
The answer to this question is not
one of increased income alone; it is
one of building cheaper houses.
Houses, forgetting the present ineadequate prefabricated types, are
constructed in the same manner as
they were a hundred years ago.

Recent developments in the house
building industry have shown that
by mass producing prefabricated
houses, not to be confused with the
present models, a reduction of 1/38
the cost could be made. This may
be the answer.

National Problem

This is a national problem and
should be undertaken by the government using a scheme much the
same as the Wartime Housing Incorporated. It is too important to
be left in the hands of private
business and the need has gone too
far to depend upon the Law of
Supply and Demand. Unless some
scheme of this sort is undertaken
a large percentage of our population will be without permanent
homes, we shall not be fullfilling
our obliagtion to the veterans of
World War II and the slums of our
large cities will persist.

 

L. S.S. Appeal Made By Former

| Gdlassor: of Baoot’s University

@® A SMALL, BUT INTERESTED
group of Dalhousie students gathered in the Murray Homestead on
Tuesday last, to hear an appeal by
Mr. John Coleman. Mr. Coleman
who was on the faculty of Queen’s
University, is associated with the
Students Christian Movement, and
is here on behalf of the International Student’s Service.

, Work of I. S. S.

Mr. Coleman’s address was very
interesting and instructive, explain
ing the I.S.S. work in Europe and

Asia. This society provided the

means whereby many prisoners of

 

war in Europe continued their education, and it was not uncommon
for these prisoners to receive a degree in Arts while being interned.
“You have no idea of the great
spiritual uplift this serviee gave
‘these men” he said. The speaker
went on to say that the men were
‘appreciative that there was something concrete like this at which
they could work, and it made them
feel that people had not forgotten
them. In all, men of eighteen
different countries were aided in
this venture.
The three point program of the

   

  

1.8.8. was. next explained by Mr.
Coleman. Firstly, it was formed
for the physical help of students,
secondly, for the promotion of
international understanding, and
lastly, for the improvement of university life and help in determining what our tasks as students
should be. Fi

From the 45,000 Canadian University Students the I.S.S. hopes
to receive a $50,000 bequest to be
distributed for the aiding of students in other countries by the
World Student Relief Committee in
Genoa.

   

In Spite Of

oe

CRITIC PSYCHOANALYSES ‘DREAM OF LOVE’

‘Dream of Love’ Failure
Hard Work;

Direction Is Inadequate

a

!

+

ee

Charming chorus in musical includes: Pat MacKinnon, Nancy MacDermaid, Nancy Colquhon, Renee Garett, Jean Bowers, Frances Jubien,
Jessie Morrison, Jean Leslie, Vivian Lusher, Lilo Brown, Peggy Rundle.

of 7

* oS

by MORTON NORMAN

@ CONSIDERING ALL THE HARD work that went into the
production of “A Dream of Love’, I felt that no matter how
badly it might turn out to be (and I had heard advance

reports) I’d still find something nice to say about it.

But I

had no idea*how slim the pickings would be.

“A Dream of Love” might have
been called more appropriately “A
Labour of Love” (considering all
the hard work again), but it would
still have been just as big) a nightmare.

Nevertheless, nightmares can be
psychoanalysed, if not reviewed.
At any rate, it was obvious last
Friday Thght that Mr. Zappler’s
patient was a very sick patient,
and should never have had visitors.

Had I seen the patient a month
ago, I might have recommended
immediate hospitalization. It must
have been a sickly thing even then.
But it was nursed along, coaxed,
and generally hammered into
shape, and finally met the public
last November 23.‘ It was in no
shape to stand that sort of excitement. I expected to hear reports
of a nervous breakdown on Saturday. but I’m told it rallied slightly
and made a fair showing. However, | didn’t see that, and can only
report on what I saw, which was
very disappointing..

It would be pointless, and even
spiteful, to review at length all the
little things that contributed to the
show’s dismal failure. Besides, I
can’t forget all the hard work that
went into it.. But in fairness to
the cast and orchestra, who tried
desperately hard, it should be made
perfectly clear that no amount of
effort would have saved it. It was
a bad play, and it was bound to
flop. Which it did with an audible
thud.

Responsibility

The responsibility obviously lies
in the hands of Mr. Zappler, who
exercised very poor judgment in
lavishing so much time and money
on such vapid material. The idea
was weak through and through.
Supposedly a musical-comedy, it
was more like an extravagant
fashion show in a funeral parlor.
And the approach was just as
solemn. In fact, I have never seen
such pure froth taken so seriously
before. The real comedy lay in
the spectacle of such pretended
grandness falling to such abysmal
depths—and that, I’m sorry to say,
was rather bitter humor.

Added to the choice (or the writing) of a very bad play. was the
still greater crime of Mr. Zappler’s
direction and poor organization.
The music—and I am referring to
the orchestra and the band—was

Continued on page two

  
  

 

Controversy Over Glee

Club Name, On Agenda
Of Student’s Forum

@ AN IMPORTANT student forum
will be held in the Chemistry
theatre next Tuesday at 12 noon.
The subject of discussion will be
the proposed changing of the name
of the Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society to Dalhousie Music
and Dramatic Society.

This means that the constitution

of the present society must be
changed and this new name substituted.

Larry Sutherland, President of
the Students’ Council has stated
that the chief objection to the proposed change is the loss of tradition which would ensue upon the
changing of the name.

Makes Suggestions

Harry Zappler, President of the
Glee Club, has put forth the following points:

(1) That the use of the Glee in
the title was misleading. As defined
by the dictionary it meant three or
more voices, one to each part, ete.

(2) Strongly feels that the Glee
Club does not properly convey the
range of activities aimed for by
this year’s executive.

(3) That the new title D.M.D.S.
is more eye-catching to the public
and is more easily abreviated than
the old name.

(4) Now that the
created a good reputation with
circles outside the college, they
feel it would be detrimental to have
their name changed back to the
Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic
Society,

society has

Attention All Veterans

® THERE WILL BE a general
meeting of all veterans in the
Chem. theatre, Tuesday, December
5th, at 1.45 p.m. It has been suggested by McGill, and most of the
large universities in Canada, that
a national veterans’ society be organized, and that a conference be
held in Montreal on Dec. 27, 28, 29.

It must be decided whether or
not we wish to join this organization, and in order to do this, we
must have a full representation at
this meeting.

          
 

 

 
     

  
   
ousie s Reputation

cGill and Toronto . . +. can probably

tfully claim the honour of being the
Canadian universities which are well

yn beyond the uation’s borders. The

ity, such as Mt. Allison, McMaster,
| Alberta, and Queen’s, are all first-rate
institutions, too...”
PALL Ae ;

We —QUEEN’S JOURNAL

aie
Chal
b

wy a:

1 is that Dalhousie is not mentioned
ng with the other “first-rate institutions”,
though exceeding them in the quality and
e of its work in the field of education.
_ The reputation of any university should
-. yest upon the service it renders to the community; and on that basis, having ‘produced’
some of Canada’s most valuable citizens, we
deserve far wider renown than is currently
enjoyed. During the recent conflict, three
members of the Alumni were in the war
cabinet, and a substantial portion of the faculty
were employed away on special federal jobs.
By, Fer many years, now, we have been supplying
- the western provinces with their judicial
_ benches, while the whole professional class in

j

» the Maritimes and Newfoundland owe their

_ existence to our schools of medicine, law, and
dentistry. (For this reason the University
has been endeavouring for some time to secure

_ subsidies from the governments of the Mari
é

times and Newfoundland—with little success,

li
t

IKING FEATURE of this observa- ,

i

| ‘ +
7 as eal .,
Poe A hey
_ I jek

Ri At MMI SMS oy wd osu a Bill Mingo
1S Business Manager ..Bob McCleave
_ Associate editors: .
x .. Blair Dunlop
| Don Harris
Alee Farquhar
Features . .Al Lomas
Literary Morton Norman
Photography ... Don Morrison
Cartoons—Bob Tuck. ,
Circulation—Nita Sideris
Mary Farquhar

Lin ‘ee af! i

as they continue to remain indifferent to or
ignorant of their heavy debt.) |

Nor can the Haligonians be blamed if they
consider it little to their credit to have such
an institution as ours within the city limits.
For it is our duty and responsibility to provide
moral, intellectual, and cultural leadership to
the community before we can hope to command an influencial position in the eyes of its
citizens.

In many instances we seem to render the
service without receiving public acknowledgement of the credit. We supply the men, but
the men are afterwards never associated with
us. Perhaps the root of the trouble may be
traced back to the cosmopolitan atmosphere
that still lingers about the corridors of the
professional schools, causing undergraduates
to remember the colleges they came from
rather than the one they now attend.

In other instances, however, we neglect to
render the service in the first place. We
neglect to interest ourselves in the high
schools that are the potential sources of our
student body; and we neglect to administer
to those about us sound guidance on issues of

-both national and local importance. How may

they be expected to pay more attention to
such an institution of learning when they are
conscious of receiving so little of value
from it? |

Colburne, all Japanese were not

imprisoned, but 15,000 were moved
from British Columbia as a se
in.
ite. i E i Y ERS 0 t seized without evidence and ‘the
Ew : 0 @ ( OX total of 23,000 were definitely not

curity measure and not even the

e Pil. MR. LOVELACE REPLIES _ idiot can see wherein the interests whole 9,000 were interned!! I

 @ If APPHARS that I have been

of the Japanese-Canadians lie. have more figures and facts which
While on the subject of Loyalty will appear as they are in hand.

re subjected to venomous innuendo | wish to quote a few eminent au- Imagine then how ridiculous to
against which I wish to take my thorities—(sans permission of the foresee a totalitarian spectre loom
defence. authors but not, I hope without on the horizon!

A literary editor, although ipso their blessing).

You see I am not Now, Mr. Norman, how morally

‘| 4 facto having the authority to edit so racially or religiously intolerant degrading is the action of the Gov| ~—-—s correspondence, never puts words that fT refuse to be enlightened by ernment, when out of 10,000 which
— inte the correspondent’s mouth the voices of authorities. is the number to be repatriated,

a which were never uttered. It was

9,000 have definitely indicated they

ee suggested that Miss Ratee should His Lordship, the Archbishop of would be our overlords if Japan

_. have chosen a subject she knew Toronto:

had been successful—which by the

ee » something about. There was cer- “T am satisfied with the policy grace and virtue of some men with

tainly no riding qualification that of the Government to disperse moral guts and courageous convic
ie she must show letters of authority. Japanese (-Canadians) throughout tions, they were not.

i. i _ For an assumption to be made that Canada, giving

loyal ones full J. € LOVELACE.

_ on the basis of my true statements civil rights.” He deprecates the

wet consider myself an authority, is movement to deport them, but does

_ Surely an expression of overworked not suggest what we should do c :
coon ation and cannot be reason- with the disloyal. “OPEN LETTER” TO ALL

ably conceived even after seven- oith Laird, Enwvet, Windsor, @ AS PRESIDENT of the Glee

ably
teen readings — which in_ itself

- ¢annot be taken as the apparent Cniaein:

aee
a

eee

a

Club and Dramatic Society I should
appreciate it greatly if you would

Ae ai et «iyi “ OT i

evidence of clear thinking! The principle of deporting assist me in making the following
If you quite fail to see what the Canadian-Japanese simply because known to your readers:
distinction may be between the of racial origin is entirely wrong 1. On behalf of our Society I

i eo!) Sh into faith, The Order of the - .- - B.C. people feel very keenly should like to express my sincere
are Black Dragon, the moral assess- © this subject and an Ontario regret to all students, members of

aa! Sth
Re ,
a de

+

Japanese - Canadian question Mr.

ments of war atrocities AND the resident may not be in a proper the Faculty and special guests who
&. position to exercise judgment. attended last Friday night’s unfor
a - Norman, then for you, but appar- However, I feel no coercion of any tunate Public Full Dress Rehearsal
ently not for yeu alone, I shall kind should be applied to Canadian- which, due to circumstances beyond
"elucidate, as despite your vehement © Japanese who have proved them- our control, was actually only our
allegation I can still think and Selves good citizens. He too second Full Rehearsal.

read quite clearly. favours the policy of dispersal, 2. On behalf of the entire cast

Miss Ratee stated that we have

but does not suggest what we of “A Dream of Love” I should

a been wrongfully ied to believe that should do with those who have like to express my sincerest indebt
es atrocities mirror the character

f all Japanese (omitting the word “!t##ens
a Janadians’ completely). Jack Marshall, Press Gallery,

She mentioned that we should Ottawa:

proven themselves other than good edness to Frank Padmore and his

faithful assistants, who spent
several days and nights re-writing
the entire orchestral score for the
show after the briefcase which con
on yi al . .* :
not adopt a policy of a country “Japanese in Canada who have tained the original orchestrations

* "
5

» which has oppressed and deported shewn themselves dislo i
MS eh emg . ; * yal during was stolen onl reek bef
_aminority group. This is certainly the war, or who have signified he piitakienbe. rane ee
not ‘consistent with that country their wish to return to Japan, 3. Our sincerest thanks also go

mentioned by my Divinity Friend, should be deported, not on racial to Connie Archibald

r for Germany to the contrary, de- grounds, but because they have Phinney, our hee he. bon
_ ported no one (she rather murdered themselves proven they do not wish Warner and his Happy Gang, who
» and tortured them) and only allow- to become good Canadians”. He were responsible for the swell
— ed as few as brutally possible to favours a policy of dispersing the party following Saturday night’s
_eseape. This is surely not the Joyal and deporting the disloyal. performance. ‘

- scope of the present policy of our And fiinally,
pemmtry fo 87
' D. C. Crombie,

nah. So, having encompassed all Jap
ey, Sy, ses :
Bary anes in her first sweeping state
,
|
%
Pgh ;

4. On behalf +of Billy White,
Frank Padmore, Don Warner,

Shia Vancouver Banc Clive Charles, Jack Quigley, Liz

Reeves, and myself, as directors of

_.ment, who I ask, could have “What the Sun is demanding is the show, I should like to acknowl_ thought that she inferred Germany that the Government’s policy be edge our profound appreciation for
ty: 1 could not be encompassed by put into practice; namely, to de- the perseverance and co-operation

that second statement ? port the disloyal and those who shown by the cast, the stage crew

Th Duet
mt, 3 —
is a

ant
ye)
is

en

Bearing this in mind, I tried’ to nave volunteered to leave and to and all the assistants (altogether

show where she was wrong with scatter the rest throughout the over one hundred people) who have

respect to Japan, and then pointed Dominion.” (Quotations all from so faithfully fought with us against
ut that nearly all Japanese are the Financial Post.) such great odds and without whose

_ associated by ties of race and blood Now surely on re-reading the individual and active assistance th
ee as their mother country, especially quotes it will be seen that the public performance would have
se in Canada. I inferred that apanese - Canadians have been never come off as it did.
many Japanese-Canadians as given the opportunity by the 5. As President of our Society
Id possibly do so “journeyed to British Columbia Security Commis- I should like also to take this op
“J
:

ecome Pilgrims of their sion to state wherein their loyality portunity of expressing my dee
a | _ ther L f pest
those ff lay. Out of 23,000 the startling regret concerning the unfortunate

opportunity, ) iefit ng b the number of 9,000 definitely affirmed difference in opinion which has

rience of those who came back. their allegiance to Japan! And that arisen between some members of
s inference is very ably affirm- is precisely the point I made in the Students’ Council and the memby Mr. Colburn, very oblig- my Para 5 and again in Para 7, to bers of our club. I feel confident

fi only 7,289

‘pointing out that of 23,000— shew why the action of our Gov- that this difference is merely a
gure — only 7,409 were ernment was not void of democ- matter of misunderstanding and
AS) Now surely even an racy. And in refutation to Mr. could be sivaiehtened

out without

(Continued from page 1)

extremely good. In fact, it was
excellent. But it was squandered
atrociously. Terry Monaghan, who
has a beautiful voice, was wasted
in the chorus. Art Hartling, who
might have supplied the personality
and weight so lacking in the male
lead, made but one appearance.
In short, it was simply a case of
not using the available talent to
advantage,

That talent is obviously good.
The band itself is unquestionably
one of the finest collegiate bands
in the country; and the orchestra,
in spite of its enormous difficulties
in getting organized, is excellent.
If there is anything to be proud of,
it is the work of Don Warner and
Frank Padmore. It is a erying
shame that such energy and ability
was wasted on such an extravagant
fiasco,

Even if it had been necessary
to innovate an entirely new plot
at the last moment — preferably
around the band—that effort should
have been made. Mr. Zappler
would not have had to struggle
very hard to be more profound
than our hero’s hand-holding, costume-changing, sight-seeing trip
around the world. Instead, a great
deal of money was lavished (and
intends to be lavished) on the sert
of thing that Hollywood can do
much better.

Suggests Approach

It is obvious that with the musical talent we have at Dalhousie,
we should be capable of a much
better production than “A Dream
of Love’. But it will require the
organizational ability. of such a
man as Mr. Pigot. Without him
it would be foolish to tackle anything more ambitious than what
was produced a year ago on
Munro Day. That wasn’t very
much, but it was well done, and it
was fun doing; which, after all, is
the true function of the Glee Club.
It should not have to be such
heartbreaking drudgery.

In short, if we are to have musieal-comedics, the Glee Club should
first recognize the limitations of
talent and facilities at Dalhousie,
and use that wisely; secondly, the
fact that the Glee Club is for the
entertainment of the student body,
and not the public.

In passing, it would be considerate of Mr. Zappler not to reserve 232 of the best seats for
“special guests” on student night.
If there are any special guests,
they are the students, who not only
elected Mr. Zappler to his present
position, but also make possible,
with much time, and energy, and
money, all his productions. They
deserve the consideration of at
least a good seat, even at a bad
show,

Mr. Zappler has obviously set
for the Glee Club (and for himself possibly) a very high standard,
which apparently, judging from
the brilliant success of “The Merchant of Venice”, is possible only
with Mr. Pigot directing things.
Undoubtedly “The Merchant of
Venice” touched the high water
mark, but after last Friday night’s
performance of “A Dream of
Love”, we are simply back where
we started from — if not further
back,

REWARD OFFERED

® FOR THE RETURN of a gold
ring. Green stone with red dots,
commonly known as Bloodstone.

Finder please contact Don Morrison at 2-3002 or leave ring at
Gazette office. Ring was lost in
vicinity of Gym and Arts Building
early this week.

- much difficulty once our Executive

and Staff is given the opportunity
of presenting personally their
point of view on this subject. As

_ the present situation is very de
trimental to our work, we should
appreciate it greatly if the Students’ Council would arrange for
such a free exchange of opinions
at the earliest possible moment.
Wishing everyone good luck in
the examinations and a very merry

Christmas,
HARRY ZAPPLER.

How right they
were when they
said Picobac was
every man’s
tobacco - - its so

cool and mild!

=. $59 | | COLLEGE RINGS
interest i ¢ AND PINS

to 1a.
every REP Dalhousie rings are now in

stock—for your convenience.
reader

Class orders for pins take
® Every page features numer- time at the factory—it will
ous articles from news to adver- help if you order early.
tisements to interest every

student. As a shopping guide Henry Birks and Sons
. as the medium for the latest Li .
3 imited

news, you'll enjoy reading
Registered Jewellers

The Halifax Herald and American Gem Society
The Halifax Mail Barrington St. - Halifax

After Any Show Corsag es

A “Colonial” Corsage deOr... signed by ROSEDALE,

Before Any Meal speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.
Think of ...

The
Green Lantern Sal caneineran cr enn

Yo

yy
7

Delicious with milk as a bedtime peaie =
crisp; crunchy graham with healthful bran.

MAR VEN’S 4: QUALITY

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics M i
: ,» Math
Languages and History. eee
Graduate Courses of recognized standing
a of M.A., M.Sc. Ni
urses—preparatory to Professional Fa i
Course in Public Administration re

Many. valuable scholarships
ee PS, on entrance and through the

leading to degrees

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course avera
he j ge about $160 ,
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a Seis ’ ah Sa

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women,
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 

 
 
  
  

 

 

; tae peating the statement with much gravity.

of quotations,
be a collection of misquotations.
my examinations to refer to Barthold’s Ready Mis
 

fF

q :
Cime i¥ i

<

® SOMEONE who professed to know a great deal
about Professor Bennet’s methods, once let me in on
a great secret which I shall pass on to all English 2
students who are- “literary” enough | .to have turned
to this page, |
ip “Bennet likes quotations, ” my peda Hi said, re“Tf you
‘wish to capture a first division in English 2, go to the
examination with at ser a hundred quotations you
can use from memory.” on

I must confess my ignorance as to whether or not
this system will work. In all the English examinations I have written at Dalhousie, I can remember
having used only three quotations, two of which were
_ misquoted, and the third was unsuitable. I learned
that Professor Bennet will give a pass (and even a
first division) on a paper sans quotations. Try the
quotation method, Beever and let me know how
ae mene Ht |

ie Is not to; be Senedd that many students attempt
"the writing of English themes without relying
heavily upon Bartlett’s Familiar Quotations. A very

- yaluable book it is, indeed. Theme readers tell me

that it is frequently given in footnotes as the source
Even more valuable, however, would
Had I been able in

quotations as the source of the line from Milton or

' Shakespeare, Professor Bennet would surely have

given me an extra mark or two. Such a volume of

rt reference, in addition to forming a refuge for students

with non-parrotlike memories, would often provide

neat phrases for the summing up of matters for

which no apt quotation exists.

The Cynie’s Calendar has made a step in this
direction. What could better describe the mood of

some of the terpsichorean brawls in the Gymnasium

than this misquotation from Byron:

“On with the dance! Let joy be unrefined”? Or
what truer proverb could apply to some campus
figures than this: ““You can lead an ass to knowledge
— or better, college — but you cannot make him
think”? Any romantically inclined sophomore would

/

 

St Io ET Se eee Je ee Tn nage re wae oN

oughts In kes GIN.

Misquoted to read:

rt 
I
Fry ae ge

agree with The Cynic’s Calendar that “the more waist
the less speed.” Nor does an opportunist require a
college degree to know that “a lie in time saves
nine.” Goldsmith, living as he did before the advent
of Kleenex, might as truly have written: “And fools
who came to cough, remained to spray.”

In these days of great armies, a line from “There'll
Always be an England,” might be truer, perhaps. if
“Wherever there’s a _ turning,
wheel a million marching feet.” Everyone must
admit that Nelson would have spoken much more
truly had he misquoted himself, to say: “England
expects every man to do her duty.” Misquotations,

-you see, undoubtedly have value, and often come

nearer the truth. May some Dalhousian make himself famous and acquire his M.A. degree by compiling
a collection of them.

,

A MISQUOTATION employed ill-advisedly, how
ever, can result in embarrassment. A member of
the Pine Hill faculty tells of having taken part in a
religious service at which the local minister was
reduced to the position of hymn announcer. Wishing
to have a greater share in the proceedings, the
minister not only announced each hymn, but read it
from beginning to end. All went well until, to show
his familiarity with the words of “O God of Bethel”,
he attempted to quote the hymn from memory. Instead of reciting:

“OQ spread Thy covering wings around
Till all our wanderings cease, —

And at our Father’s loved abode
Our souls arrive in peace.”

he unfortunately misquoted:

“OQ spread Thy covering wings around
Till all our wandering ceases,
And at our Father’s loved abode
Our souls arrive in ns

 

Well, just how would you finish it off?

In passing, the thought I would leave with you
is to be careful when quoting misquotations or misquoting quotations.”

 

The Shyscraper

REACHING up into the immeasurable blue,

Casting a shadow
And caring not,
But seemingly stretching its head
Into another world
Of beauty, that is nothingness,
Space without time
In greys and blues

| And azure silence.

Within it the tumult of commerce,
The tapping of keys,

The swish of paper,

Feet moving around

In an eternal rut:

Enterprise for what? ?

Within it the suave counselor,
A lawyer offering advice,

The client silently impressed
By the seeming wisdom;

o

An engineer patiently

Drawing plans,

Erecting models;

Progress within steel girders and cement.
And yet it knows not,

Cares less,

Rearing its head into the unknown.

And at its feet

The busy passersby
Move aimlessly along
In a cluttered world
Of details,

That have no place

Of importance

In the lofty free

And windswept heights
Into which the skyscraper
Rear its slim

And graceful form.
DAVID L. VAUGHAN.

: Te othalyn Graham’s First Novel:
Sinclair Lewis’ Nineteenth

Swiss Sonata

by Gwethalyn Graham (Jonathan Cape)

WHeN Earth and High Heaven appeared a year

ago last October, few, if any American reviewers
remembered Gwethalyn Graham’s remarkable first
novel, Swiss Sonata, which had been published six
years previously in 19388. A few Canadian reviewers
remembered that Swiss Sonata had been awarded the
Governor-General’s Medal for that year, but otherwise the general comment was that Miss Graham
was a “new” writer who showed “remarkable strength
and power”. Reviewers who “remembered” Swiss
Sonata seemed only to be quoting Miss Graham’s
publishers, as though that had been an interesting
fact, but in itself not very important. In fact, there
was no reference whatever to the book’s very fine
literary qualities, and absolutely no attempt made to
compare the two novels. It is indeed rather a sad
commentary on the modern publishing field that a
novel such as Swiss Sonata could so easily be forgotten: that it should be necessary for an author to
publish a book at least every two years, or sink into
utter oblivion.

WISS SONATA is an astonishingly brilliant first

novel, but, like Jean Stafford’s Boston Adventure,

it is the sort of a book that is more often talked

sent than read, Apparently no one bothers to read
“a brilliant first novel.”

The story itself concerns three days in the lives
of a small group of girls in a Swiss boarding school
early in January, 1985. The time covered in the book
lies immediately prior to the weekend plebiscite in
the Saar Basin—the outcome of which “favored” that
country’s political affiliation with Germany. The girls
come from all parts of Europe and America, and their
conflicting points of view—their deep social, political,
and religious differences—are sharpened and accentuated by the impending outcome of, the elections,
especially in the case of a young Jewish girl from
Saarbrucken, whose father faced inevitable ruin at
the hands of the Nazis. Her nerves are wrought to
an intense emotional pitch by the continual persecution of a small clique of German girls, who are
violently pro-Nazi. The ordinary tension throughout
the school, aggravated by a score of petty jealousies
and animosities, is wrought to a still graeter emotional pitch by several minor incidents in the book—
including the tragic death of a young Catholic girl.
A character at the beginning of the novel makes the
statement: “ . what we face here the world faces;
what we suffer thousands of others suffer in the
same way ... we are but a reflection of the chaos
in the outer world ... if we cannot bring order into
our own lives, how can we possibly expect nations to
succeed ?”

IKE Earth and High Heaven, Swiss Sonata is a
thesis novel: but it is magnificently handled, with
restraint, humour, intelligence, and a deep, sympathetic insight into the subtleties of human relationships.

Unfortunately, the book has faults of construction. There are far too many characters; and in spite
of the fact that the author has gone to great length
to supply the peculiar economic and social background
of each girl, very few stand out as separate entities
with personalities of their own. With the exception
of the main character Vicky Morrison, and her friend
Theodora Cohen (who are, by the way, splendidly
drawn), and one or two others, it is often difficult to
understand why each girl acts in the manner she
does. One is forever trying to remember that soand-so comes from England or Norway, and lived
such-and-such a life before coming to Switzerland,
and then trying to fit her into the general pattern.
Obviously that was the author’s intention, and she
has succeeded magnificently in at least seven of the
more important characters. But there are over thirty
eharacters to be considered and remembered, and the
result is rather confusing. In fact, the book demands
a great deal of the reader—both in time and patience
—but it is well worth the effort.

Miss Graham obviously writes very slowly and
with great care. Her style is the reflection of an
extremely high, cool intelligence, and an almost uncanny insight into the hidden depths of human
character. She writes with precision and cool brilliance, but the result is never labored, and never
purely intellectual.

Swiss Sonata was started when the author was 21,
and was not finished until she was 26. But the result
is a minor classic.

Cass Timberlane

by Sinclair Lewis (Random House)

VER since the publication of Main Street twenty
five years ago, Sinclair Lewis has been writing
continuously, and with but slight variation, on exactly
the same theme—a theme that has, for some reason
or other, been ostentatiously referred to.as “The
American Scene”. Not very much in the American
Scene has escaped Lewis’ bitter satire, and in Cass
Timberlane he has at last come round to the subject
of marriage.

Cass Timberlane is called “A Novel of Husbands
and Wives”, and for once the book-jacket blurb does
not exaggerate. It is such a novel. But it is more
than that too. In Main Street Lewis attacked small
4

  

businessman; in Arrowsmith, the medical profession.
Cass Timberlane attacks the American institution of
marriage. What Lewis has to say is not very nice.
It is, in fact, rather alarming.
out the story of Judge Timberlane and Jinny Marshland (which, by the way, seems rather irrelevant),
are a series of sketches of the married lives of a score
of prominent citizens of Grand Repubile, They constitute in short what Lewis has to say of marriage.
Some are funny and amusing, and some are rather
poignant. But the general effect is shocking and
repellant. Each character is pictured as living a life
so completely miserable and rotten, that not to admit
at least the partial truth of it is to ignore the fundamental fact that life for a great many people has
become at best a tragic farce.

EWIS throws down this challenge of marriage to
Cass and Jinny. However, as if having to contend
with a decadent institution were not quite enough,
Lewis complicates matters still more. Jinny is
pictured as young and bird-like, and rather impetuous
“a half-tamed hawk of a girl, twenty-three or four,
not tall, smiling, and lively of eye.” Cass, on the
other hand, is her direct opposite—reserved, methodical, rather proud, and twenty years her senior.
Separated by widely divergent tastes and interests,
and having to face the psychological challenge of
public skepticism, they are nevertheless determined
to make their marriage a success. Miraculously,
they do succeed, but one is left with the impression
that had this not been fiction things might have been
very different. Indeed, how Cass and Jinny finally
succeed,- Lewis does not explain. Except that Cass
and Jinny are both very intelligent and reasonable,
and willing to make infinite small compromises, one
is left with the impression that they are just somehow
different, and that the success of their marriage
merely proves the rule that the institution of marriage is rapidly going to pot.

 

In fact, Cass Timberlane merely illustrates once
again Lewis’ irritating tendency to scratch surfaces,
and to make a great deal of fuss about it, but to come
up with nothing more spectacular than a fistful of
mud. As usual, he has not fought down the temptation to filing a few dirty handfuls at what he has
inferred to be the spiritual poverty of modern life.
But he is particularly concerned with the stupidity
and hypocrisy of modern marriages. He has made a
few pointed barbs.
in not a few instances. But as usual he has offered
no solution whatever. He has not even tried to understand. He has been content, again, merely to caricaturize the surface.

T IS strange that in spite of knowing as much as
we do of Lewis’ early life, and especially his nonconformist attitude in college, we should still accept
so wholeheartedly and uncritically his intense and
sarcastically bitter indictment of the American scene.
Lewis has been called a great satirist, but with great
exaggeration I think. Satirists, like all artists, are
born, but they are unmade by spite. The well-spring
of all satire is sincerity—a deep love of mankind and
a profound hatred of injustice. The satirist may be,
and very often is, bitter—but never spiteful. And if
Lewis just misses being a great satirist, it is because
he is so often spiteful,

H* IS undoubtedly a clever caricaturist, but his

brilliance is nothing more than the glitter of
facile writing — frequently crude, sometimes vulgar,
but far too often merely smug. He lacks completely
a sympathetic insight into the depths of human
character and endurance, and a knowledge of the
hidden subtleties of human relationships.

Cass Timberlane is not a great book by any means.
It is possibly not even a good one. It is, in short,
Lewis’ nineteenth novel.

SS

The Cilies

haunt the garden’s edge
and stand like souls along the shore
of time and look forlorn
across the tide of consciousness.

the cycle of the passing year
that saw the green-hued spring,
prismatic summer and the saddened sere
leaves night for their decay
and death that they may sing.

—C S.W.
 

In Acknowledgement

To all contributors whose splendid cooperation and support have made this
special edition of the Gazette possible, a
word of thanks and deep appreciation.
Several articles which appeared at the last
moment have been withheld due to lack of
space, but they will be published at the
earliest possible date in January.

A special word of thanks to the Dalhousie Senate for permission to publish

Kathryn Bean’s prize-winning poem “‘To

An Absentee’’..

town smugness; in Babbitt, the average American’

Interspersed through-
He has come close to the truth:

   
  
       
    
       
        
   
       
       
   
 
       
     
      
      
       
       
       
    
        
    
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
        
       
   
   
     
  

     
     
       
     
     
       
     
       
      
 
     
     
     
 
          
    
      
 
     
     
         
      
 
   
     
   
   
           
 
 

 
 
  
 
 

 
  
   
  
  

r » frequent, the his ancestors had been no
he, strong and loyal, and no hi had ever
the Thidhs to lose face. While paying his
‘ id the meat Within, pale men arrived from

  
 

  
  
  
  

   
  
 

m Shad faded, and the willow trees bore no
S, s thou the year was” ne ripe; and hi Sung-wei

   
 
  
  
 

   
  

at in tthe rae withered and died. ae Vises
| came from the south, preaching a land of great
, promise; and many removed their pigtails, the sign
ie of fealty to the throne, and swelled his ranks, until he
x broke into the Forbidden City, and caused the last of

   
  
   
 

. ae the Ch’ing to flee. In Kan-suh the pigtails were
Ai, i uncut, for out of respect to their ancestors, the hi
7 refused to revolt against the Emperor. hi-Ching-si
kept his pigtail, and ‘many followed him into the

»

ls, where they rebuilt their houses.

     
   
  

“The vision of hi Sung-wei was fulfilled, as the
ie eighteen provinces groaned under the indignities and
__ loss of face they suffered; and the little brown men
i j Be from the islands Aeaonited from the north, crossed
the Grand Canal and entered the Forbidden City and
the Great Within. Thence they sent their armies
: south and east, and they burned and destroyed as
. _ they went, sparing none. They were repulsed at the
M mountains, for at Yang-tu the hi had stolen guns and
my used them well.

    
   
        
     
     
      

     
 

  
 

_ "PHE new China» was weak, and groups strove
ane against each other, and hi Ching-si longed for the
return of the days of the Manchus. He sat one day
Poe ve by the lotus pool, reading the memorial of his
a i _ ancestor Sung-wei, and noticed how, as Sung-wei said,
the lotus comes in spring and dies in autumn; thus
would the brown men die in the autumn, but not until
eo pe eighteen provinces were one united body. He sat
3 Ne _ for a long while, and many of his retainers
i came and inquired concerning his silence, and he
 feoked up and saw their pigtails. It was now dark
ves and he called for a lantern, and the eighth book of
Hh Kung Foo-tze, the Analects. He took the scroll they
is Pte brought him and read by the lantern’s light, while
the moon rose high in the sky, and the shadow
_ deepened beneath the temple of Shang-ti and crept
t 3 _ over the still waters of the pool. There he sat, and
_ his men waited, and the cool breeze blew from the
St (3) hills and the water rippled to and fro. At last he
et arose, and watched the shadows dancing on the water,
a ii and the floating blossoms.
bn pe) read aloud to those standing near: “And the master
Pie | Kung answered: “The people come first, the Emperor
asl last;’” and he tock the, knife that hi Chi-ho had
By peed. in the service of the Han and removed the
_ pigtail from his head. A man ran into the courtyard
and cried to him: “The brown men come, my lord.”
“hy rs “My. name is hi,” he answered, “let us go.”
By They went out, and the breeze died down, and the
_ shadows lay still on the surface of the water. The
tower loomed benignly through the dark, commending
the action. The Manchu Pu-Yi might be for Japan,
- but China was for China. Soon the sun rose, and
the first arrows.of light fell upon the pagoda of
4 _Shang-ti, and the branches of the willow almost
I “covered the discarded pigtail, which had fallen to
ee the meen, SEPTIMUS.

.

i?

sa
debe

{
i

 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
    
    
  
  
  
     
     
 

st Ae

i

ha

‘yal P
*

Boe Y

re
{ i P ‘ c

. : G Fantasy

   

 
 

\ et

%

  
    
    
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
   
 

THE BIRTH OF A POEM

TDEAS in embryo,

me _Jostling one another ;
In a timeless, spaceless vacuum

_ Of imagination,

hi bist nmeasured, scattered
Neeting and yon,

wi 0 as that may kindle fires of revolution,
MF tnak eman'e \”: |

+ maiden’s thoughts f io

Be savsteat love. iy. i ’

17,2"
AR

  
 
   
     
  
 
  
 
 
 
   

s very little orien
te, /

; So few i

to be urged from within, —
i so many other pleasures,
tions in a mad world

Then, taking the scroll, he.

_recipient’s having read it?.

  

“OF course it’s for a friend, you know.”

 

Profane Letters...

 

“Oh, to be banned in Boston,
Now that December is here,”

Now as the year turns to its close, and American
publishing houses shed their “Fall and Winter
Lists”, one ponders on the semi-annual problems of
morality in literature. The problem is fortunately
only semi-annual: in these sad days, the average
person has only one friend or relative, who, already
owning a book, will be genuinely glad to be given
another as a gift on a birthday or at Christmas.>

The selection of a gift requires careful thought;
if the gift be a book there is a concrete problem of
criticism to be solved. For shall one give from the
great host of works that languish on the shelves in
sound respectability, or shall one give a book that
has been banned in Boston?

The Athens of America, around which New
England flowered with transcendental blossoms, has
in her long winter developed a faculty whose end
product is criticism. Now, the whole western world
depends upon Boston for the final word in criticism,
so that what Boston rejects is wrapt to the ,bosom
of Anglo-American culture. In the immediate past,
two examples stand pre-eminent: “Strange Fruit”, by
Lillian Smith, and the encyclopaediac “Forever
Amber”, by Kathleen Winsor—both now part of the
cultural heritage of the West. No one can ignore the
role that Boston played in raising these works to their
enviable position.

HE sales of “Strange Fruit” (a singularly apt

title, when one broods on various connotations)
leapt to best-seller levels only after the Watch and
Ward Society of Boston forbade the sale of the book,
on the ground that it contained a dirty word. The
charges were not baseless: the dirty word is there,
in black and white, on the rather trashy paper that
is used for novels today. One wonders, in passing,
how the purity of Boston managed to produce an
intellect sufficiently prurient to recognize this word
as being obscene. But speculation on that matter is
pointless, and the result of the ban is, after all, our
main concern. For when the reading public of the
continent discovered that Lillian Smith knew and
used a dirty word, enthusiasm knew no_ bounds.
Young men and maidens, old men in their chimney
corners, sewing-circles and sancturary guilds, all
revelled in that word. One cannot imagine Miss
Smith weeping tears of either chagrin or contrition.

“Forever Amber’, in its turn, was flung into heady
success by the same machinery. Its versatile heroine
(who could deal cards and spades to Mr. Heinz with
his amateurish fifty-seven different varieties) was
flung from Boston to the Antipodés, to be re-banned,
and thus to have her glory enhanced, in stern
Australia. “Forever Amber” has become, by all indications, the bobby-socksers vade mecum, and members
of learned societies draw semi-anatomical diagrams
in answer to fascinated queries ‘from readers in
middle-class suburbs.

Confronted with these examples, the autumn
shopper is on the horns of a dilemma. . Shall one give
a book that has already been banned in Boston, and
is consequently a classic, even at the risk of the
Or should one read the
new novels with an eye to words that will assure
their being banned in Boston, when the Dorcas Society
gives the high sign to Watch and Ward? There are
probably six words that are seeds of immortality in
contemporary literature, and some exercise like proofreading ought to make the average. novel-scanner
reasonably adept at pulling them out of a context.

' Of these two methods, the second is no doubt the
more exacting, and consequently the more appropriate,

means of selecting the gift book. How much more .

gladly is a gift received, if the receiver knows that
careful selection and long deliberation have gone into
its choice. And for the giver—what better indication
is there of his knowledge of four-letter words, and his
appreciation of morality, than the despatch of a gift
that will be peoaized immediately as unfit for

| Boston?

HAT the Boston, or Watch and Ward, school of

criticism is the arbiter of literary taste, and that
the ban’ of Boston is the novelist’s accolade, can be
witnessed by the immense success of a number of
important modern works. “Ulysses”, as long and
infinitely duller than “Forever Amber”; “The Well
of Loneliness”, a novel twice as big and three times
as stupid as “Strange Fruit”; “Studs Lonigan” and a
good number of other pieces are sold to eager-eyed
enthusiasts all over the world on this basis of selection. How much the weight of this criticism has
affected the structure of the modern novel is rather
more difficult to appraise. How successful can a
novel be, if it is not forbidden circulation among the
Cabots and the Lowells? Certainly it will never
make the under-counter shelf that cherishes what
Boston consigns to outer darkness. Nor will little
maids from school deny themselves coca-cola and
hoard their small change to buy an unforbidden book.
No country clergyman will bother to damn what
Boston tolerates, and, in a dozen small ways that in
the end mean the sale of thousands of copies, that
book that escapes Boston’s ban is doomed to mere
also-running,

Do novelists, as they take their pens in their
damp little fists, cudgel their brains for those frank
monosyllables that mean success? Do they, if
memory fails them, make hasty notations on those
entertaining graffiti found in public lavatories? One
is intrigued by a consideration of these labors; one
sympathizes with the writer as he debates the position and effect of his chosen gem. But this speculation is vain. As one picks up the average modern
novel, there lies, between the lines of print, and
almost as clear as they, the author’s evening prayer:

“Oh to be banned in Boston,
Now that December is here.”
—H, K. G.

Tc Cn Clbsentee

The following poem was awarded the
$200.00 first prize award in the Joseph Howe
Poetry Contest of 1943. It is here published
with the kind permission of the Dalhousie
Senate.—Editor.

OU loved the pale green froth of buds in

Spring,

The woody paths that sent you forth to roam

In search of nests and many a strange wild
thing

To swell your store of oddities at home.

I watched you tread beneath the open sky

To ie and creeks where muddied waters

ow,

With vod and reel to while the sunburnt hours;

Wistful, I watched you go

And loved you for your careless swinging
grace,

Your jaunty whistle tuned to far off hills,

And yet I loathed to lose you for one day

To distant nooks and rills.

Now grown, you have these many months
been gone,

And I am proud because you help retain

The freedom found while walking paths in
spring,

The liberty I pray you'll know again.

And though I’m sad, because you will not see

The blossoming mists that veil our apple tree,

The sloping roof heaped high with petaled

- snow;

Somehow t know, as spring returns

And buds break into foam,

Your heart will trail familiar pathways home.

—KATHYRN BEAN,

 

Nocturne

A SHORT STORY
se came out of the crowded El train into the pink

Manhattan soared into the, evening sky in the distance. Through the glare of the setting sun the tall
buildings looked liked the monstrous black trunks of
some primeval forest heaving above the hot, crowded
city.

She walked down the iron stairway into the cool
dark shadow of the street below. Her hand trembled
slightly on the railing, and she moved cautiously,
letting the crowd pass. Then she crossed the pavement, walked north for some distance, and climbed
the cement steps of a narrow brick apartment house
flanking the East River,

Inside, the hall was dark and warm. She heard a
bottle crash somewhere in the rear of the building,
and a door slam. The heat was like a tremendous,
living weight. The perspiration stood out on her
Torehead in tiny beads of sweat, and her head ached
violently. She climbed the stairs slowly, resting at
the top to press her head against the cold wall. Then
she took out her key and entered the tiny flat.: She
closed the door behind her softly, and then with the
sound of a frightened, hurt animal, she sobbed quietly
against the door-casing.

The pain in her head throbbed with sickening
violence. She pressed her head fiercely against the
sharp edge of the wood until the pain of the bruised
flesh blotted out all sensation. The floor heaved
beneath her, and the room suddenly went black. She
breathed deeply, waiting for it to pass. Then she
moved slowly back into the room, through the kitchen
and into the bathroom. She opened the small medicine
closet, and groped for a tiny bottle of morphine. She
swallowed three tablets, and then bathed her eyes
and forehead with cold water. In the kitchen she
made a small ice-pack with a thin towel and carried
it into her bedroom. She loosened her collar and skirt,
and lay over the bed with the ice-pack on her forehead. It began to melt slowly, and the cold water
ran down her temples and onto the pillow. She relaxed slowly, giving herself up to the heavy luxury
of the drug. The room slipped away quietly. She
counted the months again—July, August, September

..March...March...March what? The first or the
last? Possibly a year he had said. Next July then

. &@ year at the most ...no more...

She began to weep silently in the dark room.

Sih turned in her sleep restlessly. A few hours

after midnight she wakened, and the clock in her
living-room chimed three. Her clothes were soaked
with perspiration. In the darkness she fought back
tears of self-pity and discouragement. If only the
pain would stop! She got up slowly and walked to
the open window. The street was empty and quiet.
A man passed below—a short, fat man carrying a
parcel. He walked quickly, like a frightened thing.
He turned the corner at the end of the street and
disappeared. The trains passed less frequently now,
and during the intervals it was quiet. The heat
pressed down close and still. Far off she heard the
rumble of thunder, and over the broken edges of the
roof-tops she could see the distant flare of lightning,

A slight breeze entered the room, and she leaned
over the window-sill to fill her lungs with the cool air.
She was tired, more tired than she had ever
and her heart longed for escape . .

been,

TT OWSROs morning she stirred and shivered in the

cool air of the room. Her head and back ached
from the cramped position in which she had been
sleeping. She buried her face in her hands, as if to
push back the throbbing pain and crush it. In the
street below a milk truck rolled up to the curb. The
man jumped out with two or three bottles, and stood
them in a basement doorway. She watched him until
he disappeared in the darkness, and then got up
herself and moved to the small kitchen. From the
window overlooking the East River she could see the
first flush of early dawn. The sky was livid, but a
long, thin ribbon of burnt copper streaked the
horizon,

She moved to the small gas burner in the corner
of the room, and reached up for a match to light the
flame. But she stopped in her action, and stared at
the small star-like shape of the burner. She stared
until her eyes lost focus—until it writhed with the
hideousness of a tiny monster. Her heart began té
pound. The pain in her head throbbed suddenly,
sending a wave of violent nausea through her body.
She moved back slowly into the front room. She
closed the windows quietly, shoved the mat tightly
against the door leading into the hall, and went back
into the kitchen. The room was brilliant with the red
glare of the sun. She moved towards the gas burner.
With a trembling hand she opened the jet wide. Her
heart was beating in a queer, excited way.

—MORTON NORMAN.

Who has seen
Floating down the stream
Rose petals?

Where waters meet,
The seven veiléed sisters weep
Lethe’s dream...

Cavernous dome
Of night, eternal and alone...
Wraithéed sleep,

flush of early evening. The tremendous bulk of

‘November 30, 1945

  
      
  

 

 
  
 
 
  
   
  

 

 
    
 

 
iy -commin on out.”

ee!
oA
we i

Va I “CRICKET ‘MeGOSH

i. AT Fatuous | E

aed

eae
fy

dh: tor Lomah of the Dulthiousie’
tt for : ‘ing half of -hi

to a “la: tominate oA -your chronicler, McGosh,
n “suicide by inhilation of an Old Gold fag and
, Stewdent

Council: Caesar! the es

cee s to interpret herewith.

Y ra nae trees a, pra airxpress from Florida for his cele- —
ec , 1 “Nightmare of “Hate” prot Mr. Zipper also appealed
te ooanen to vote a sizeable sum
for ‘hospitalization — of pert Miss
Frenzy Jobbean who dislocated her _
ch ip during the strenuous hula hula
“sequence. Mr. Zipper contended
bat ee should ,
s aid “out
a ety,” the money would be put “to
B08 suitable use.” (zee Russian chorus
needs: zee fur hats). |
vite was Mr. Swallow’s considered
“opinion that these requests be turnbs ed down flatly and that Mr. Zipper
be forced, by torture or otherwise,

d the eas might be overcome

iss Jobbean refuse
£ loyalty to the so-—

© adopt “Glum Club” as official

niker of his outfit.

Prexie Hinterland hinted that :

_ should Mr. Zipper not agree to the
- change, Council carefully debate
_ the possibility of electing a special
Ps ‘roup to consider the advisability
i, of submitting a brief to the “action
bs committee” on the possible des(i) itch of a “letter of gentle warnfa ing” to Mr. Zipper and his proble_ matic Glumites. ;

Mei ty Original Slogan

r Wie Fah Boudoir, reading a
report from the Au amnitto on ¢ol
we liteh spirits”, revealed their stir
ring slogan: “Byerybody Out!
Come _ on Gang!’ was reaping
Ao. ividends and that “everybody
seemed to be joinin the gang and
He observed that
Sodales membership had leaped
a from three to five members (executive included) over a short ten year
Whe eriod, proving that debating has
‘at last come into its own, |
Miss Cunning Itchybald reported.
1 three cent deficit in the Stilta
mma coffers and nominated her
m, Miss Lozenge Mousie, to
irmanship of the Stewdent Appreciation Group.
__-Unselfishness Key-note
‘Mr. Hinterland suggested that a
mber of Council executive,
srferably an Arts graduate now
‘Medicine and of tall, lanky
me, be sent to an S.P.C.A. conance in Thailand. Mr. Hazey,
yever, felt the situation called
her for an Acadia alumnus with
al training and war service.
_ Mr. Aftie Corking urged his cole gues to get away from the
i ish, personal approach and sug
[ CAPITOL

| 1 huraday - ok - Saturday

Jeg THOUSAND AND

: ii ; ONE NIGHTS”
CORNELL THILDE
EVELYN Ree

- Wednesday

td 4
i, iti "JENNIFER JONES
. _ JOSEPH COTTEN

e y STATE FAIR”

DICK HAYMES,
| ‘ AN BLAINE
| i s es ANDREWS

mr Teese: 35
eginne HORSESHOE”

cena that Mr. ‘sends represent
Dullhousie at the N.F.C.U.S. conference. Mr. Mungo moved nominations ‘cease.

Pp Grapevine Bilge deplored
what he ealled “the attitude of
gimme, gimme, gimme,” resulting
from Gold D awards. He agreed
with. Mr. Corking that man must
act altruistically and love his
neighbour as himself. Gold D controversy might even lead to a third
world war, he stated, “which would
be even more horrible than the one
just passed.”

_ Appeals For Altruism

Mr. Bilge maintained that if
mankind would only replace the
“gimme, gimme” with lots of
“‘takee, takee,” there would be no
wars. He urged Council to forward Ottawa a proclamation to
this effect.

In ¢onclusion, Mr. Bilge stated
he would consider resigning from
the Council if not awarded an
“Honorary D” in recognition of
“my altruistic efforts for the other
fellow.”

Mr. Swallow asked him to disclose who “the other fellow” was,

After four hours of heated debate, Succertary M. R. Smelly
awoke from a deep sleep to make
the startling observation that as
five Council members were absent
from the meeting, a quorum was
therefore lacking, the motions
passed were therefore null and
void and all matters would have to
be reconsiderea at another meeting.

Large Crowd Attends
te Ball; Returned

Men Ni dinate Scene

@® THE LAW BALL of 1945 has
proven to be one of the Dal social
highlights of the year, and was an
outstanding success. It was held in
the Nova Scotian Hotel, under the
distinguished patronage of Angus
T.. Macdonald. Premier of Nova
Seotia, and Mr. Haley, President
of the Nova Scotia Bar Society.

Part of the proceedings of the
ball were broadcast from 10.30 to
11 p.m., while Don Lowe and his
popular orchestra left little to be
desired in the musical line.

The great majority in attendance
were returned men, who have seen
service in all parts of the world.

The Law Ball committee deserves a great deal of the credit
for the success of the Ball and the
society extends its warmest appreciation to the members of this
comittee: A. Sheffman, A. H. Hart,
and M, M. Yeoman.

JERRY NAUGLER’S
~ ORCHESTRA

123 Willow Street
Call 4-9673

CASINO

1

ALL NEXT WEEK

“OVER 21”

- Dick Haymes a

Deak Grant;

| Christmas
Wim fe

| Good Luck

in the Exams

fem the Gazette Staff
Forrest Flashes

Med...

@® OUR TIME IS now at hand.
Such seems to be the medical student consensus today, as the long
awaited examination lists have
been posted. “Tempus fugit” indeed, with two short weeks to go.

The gentlemen from the Forrest
North Side marked a long-awaited
revival of an annual custom last
Friday at the Nova Scotian. The
general enjoyment was shared by a
representative handful of Meds;
for them we say to Law, “Thanks
for a good party.”

Med. Ball and Banquet are to be
held at the Nova Scotian on January 18th, 1946. Banquet begins at
6 o’clock sharp; Ball at nine. For
further details see Chuck Wright,
John Lauchie MacLellan or Kev
Carton.

Of the Medical Society Meeting
ealled for November 21st, we had
best say little, lest we say too
much. The interested dozen who
were present decided: (1) To go
ahead with the Med Ball and
Banquet, despite the apathy so repeatedly and so completely demonstrated by the student body. (2)
To publish again the Dalhousie
Medical Journal. Much of the essential foundation work was done
by Deak Grant; it is now proposed
to print an:issue this spring and
two issues annually thereafter.
Subscriptions to be sold to Faculty
and Alumni throughout the Province and beyond, as well as to Dal
students. The lineup is as follows:
Editor, Dave Archibald; Business
Manager, Chuck Wright; Assistant
Editors: Pete Loder, Joe Metcalfe,
Circulation Manager,
Stu. Madden; Photographer, Lloyd
Hirtle,

Dent...

@® AND SO, twilight has fallen on
another term.
cern for everyone these days, is of
course, examinations. Very best
of luck, boys, and an enjoyable
holiday after the grind is over.
Incidentally, we hear Gordie is
planning a little trip up to St. John
this Christmas. Don’t blame you a
bit, boy. Three months apart from
Marg is just too long, especially
after observing how happy and
peaceful the Duke a been all
Term.

And speaking of the holidays,
the reverse holds true for our hero
of last week, Jim Darcy; it seems
someone is paying him a visit home
this Christmas. She is making a
long trip from Newfoundland, all
for you, Jim.

The two Victoria Road twins,
Burke and Hinch went to the Law
Frawl last week. Some enjoyable
event! Even Hinch’s tooth seems to
be better now. And say, Johnnie,
your room-mate is still smacking
his lips ‘over that delicious chocolate cake you got hold of last week
—naturally it was a parcel from
home (?)

Like all true Broadway impresarios, Zappler lived up to the
traditions of Ziegfield, Billy Rose,
etc., and sent flowers to one of the
leading ladies of his Musical Revue.
Was it just for tradition’s sake,
Harry?

See you all next walt,

The immediate con- _

Law...

@® WE ALL EXTEND. our most*
hearty congratulations to the Law
Ball Committee comprised of Alex
Hart, Abe Sheffman, and Mark
Yeoman. It was only through their
hard and competent work, that it
was such a successful Ball. Mr.
Walker and Mr. MacDonald, parttime radio announcers and Law
students were in charge of the
half-hour broadcast of the ball over
CHNS.

At another jolly meeting of the
Law Society, plans were formulated as to the complete furnishing
of the Munro Room. Marshall
Rogers, president of the Dalhousie
Law Association has notified Tom
Feeney, the Law Society President,
that the Association wished to
donate $200 to help furnish the
Munro Room, and for this kind
offer we are duly thankful. The
Dalhousie Alumni also is interested
in helping, and along with the
profits from the Law Ball, the indications are that we will have a
luxurious and comfortable common
Rook,

“That fellow judges a girl as she
appears when -seen from behind.”

“Oh, I see. A stern judge, eh?”

@® THE RED STACK is buzzing
with comment about the Common
Room murders, also known as the
lost LIFE case. Where the magazines go between the’time they
arrive from the publishers and the
time they show up on the magazine
rack is a sleuthing problem of the
first order. Some amateur Holmes
see a relation between the facts
that the delay interval has been increased by 83 per cent and that a
new member has joined the engineering staff.

The Engineer (who will remain
nameless) whose aim was so poor
that he hit the wrong Chorus girl
with the sneaker he belted from
the rafter at the recent Glee Club
presentation has had his membership to the E.C.M., Horizontal and
Vertical Clubs, Weaselers’ Union
suspended until his aim improves.

The actions of Howard Norman
have come under attention lately—
it seems the young lad goes to his
lady friend’s house each Sunday
night to play bridge, but it also
seems that they have never yet
been able to get a third or fourth.
Just what kind of a game they do
play, neither Norman nor his L. F.
eare to say.

Then there’s the sad story of
Mike, who doesn’t drink, but chews
—For more detail, see the old
muncher himself.

You Are Invited to Visit

Phinney’s Sheet

Music Department

where you will always
find the newest popular
songs as Well as the finest
standard and _ classical
numbers.

PHINNEY’S
LIMITED

456-460 Barrington St.

Ties Galore!
..,at EATON’S

Lots of men’s neckwear to select from at EATON’S!.

‘ a* > ¢
] ti :
on | See
, yee
| oe
= “"
y - aie

\ °

TTT Tn
KA
& :

ie
'

TY

® THE YEAR is drawing to a
close and consequently campus activities will be dying down. However, Withrow’s theme song “Why
study at all?” is being carried out
by many, and some male characters
have been mumbling: “Alcoving
away your cares and sorrow, Alcoving away your grief and pain,
Leaving your troubles till tomorrow, Letting exam worries wait in
vain.”
e

Eric Tupper’s dreams really seem
to be coming true. (Hope it doesn’t
turn out to be a night mare!) But
don’t you think you’re robbing the
cradle, Terry? And then to keep
him out until 3.30 A.M.! Does he
need that much coaching?

* *
‘

Dal men could really go for a
certain cute co-ed if they didn’t have to go so far — but it’s no
trouble for you to go all the way,
Mike.

x * &*

Here and there: ruggedly (?)
handsome (777) Zen at Bedford,
Lois and Alex at S.C.M., Leah and
Myrd everywhere

CO eee

Margot has been heard around
the Gym store bellowing “I only
want to be a buddy, not a Juliet,”

ys ot
p< a

. And so ends
all the lovely, luscious dirt of °45
—to the Grinders of the Grime,
Knowsey, the Griminal, thanks you
—-Farewell folks.

ORPHEUS
Friday - Saturday
“ISLE OF THE DEAD”
BORIS KARLOFF
“WANDERERS OF THE
WASTLAND”
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“GIRLS OF THE BIG HOUSE”
“MARSHALL OF LAREDO”

. Check over

your Christmas list—choose ties for Dad, Brother and other men

on your list.

#1;

a
> oT ty i ei

i 7 oe

Each 1.00 to 3.50.
RATON’S Main Floor

EATON

MARITIM

ERED RENEE ED ED ODE DPD

. Our assortment of neckties offers a wide selection
of patterns and colours.

oO

LIMITED

ina Lee BES ISH Ty e a

 
   

 

  
  
  
  
   
     
 
   
     
   
  
  
  
  
     
   
       
     
   
   
   
 

ae!

  

- ball question.

on the Sidelines

by ALEC FARQUHAR

    
 
 

a @® TWO LOOMING items on the sports menu this week seem
to be the campus-wide controversy of the relative merits of
English Rugby and our hockey prospects of the coming season,

First we might give a few words of commentary on the footFrom both the spectator and player viewpoint
I remain an all-out supporter of the English game.

I am the first to admit that the older game can be improved and suggest that before we think of introducing an
absolutely new variation, we innovate some changes in the
English game. The number df players used could be cut down
as was done in the season of 1944 in the City Senior League.
Some of the laws of the game, such as the knock-on rule could
be repealed and the sport speeded up considerably — even
though according to present rules, the English type is much
faster than Canadian Football.

ewe.

  

 

 

Results of Gazette Rugby

 

f
i +.

   

xf ie

l
.
A
*
eT
a

Old-Fashioned?

Some people think that because
Upper -Canadians play Canadian
rugby they are far ahead of
us in this respect and we should
change so as not to be old-fashioned. It might be old-fashioned
but it is still the better game.
And don’t think that we are the
only people in the world that stick
to the older game. Needless to

‘say it is one of the most prominent

and popular sports in England: it
more than holds its own with Canadian rugby in British Columbia;

‘and in California, producer of Rose

Bowl teams in American football
(closely akin to the Canadian
game), English rugger is surprisingly popular. However, we may
talk for hours and still not convince
the cohorts of Canadian Football
of the attributes of English Rugger. But then we can rest securely
with the fact that they shall never
convince us that Canadian Football
is really the game.
Hockey Prospects

And to turn our thoughts from

the gridiron to the ice-lands, we

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
ry 2

 

 

Nova Scotia

_ HALIFAX

 

     

The same qualities that
make Turquoise the

est, strongest and most
durable writing pencil
use that money can buy. re
Treat yourself to the b
world’s best Pencil value. 3
10¢ fach - ;

LESS IN QUANTITIES

MADE IN CANADA

ante etl wn

‘teres seonoetor

       
      
       
      

     
      
        
  
   
   
    
    
   

feated Dalhousie

notice that two score aspirants
donned the blades last Monday to
whirl around a few times. Several
former Varsity luminaries were
present in the persons of Bob
Wade, Dick Currie, Ken Wilson,
Zen Graves and others, while numerous stars from High School
Ranks and, other colleges demonstrated their abilities. From all
reports, prospects are promising
that Dalhousie will present a
strong team in the Intercollegiate
League. A coach has yet to be
named but the D.A.A.C. are sparing no efforts to procure a competent one.

Basketballers Win

Last Wednesday evening the Intermediate basketball team wound
up their pre-Christmas schedule
with a surprise win over the South
End Athletic Club. The South
Enders boasted five of last year’s
senior Y.M.C.A. squad which dein the Nova
Scotia finals and went on to Montreal to play off for the Eastern
Canadian title. Judging from this
showing, the Intermediates have an
abundance of material with lots of
basketball moxy. After Christmas,
the Tiger Seniors swing into action and Coach Keith Matthews
asserts that several of the Intermediate Cubs will find berths on
the Senior squad.

 

a —

Creighton Leads In
Interfaculty Scoring

@ SCORING FIGURES in the Interfcaulty basketball league have
been released and show the Lawyers, Engineers and Commercemen tied for first place in the team
standing. High individual scorer is
diminutive Berney Creighton of
the Commerce team with 82 points.
He is closely followed by teammate Blair Dunlop, who has garnered 30 markers. Lou Bell with 23
points rounds out the Big Three.

@® COMING FROM behind four
times, Dalhousie Cubs put on a
masterly demonstration of basketball" Wednesday evening to top the
strong South End Athletic Club
54-29 in a closely contested game.
The game was in doubt from start
to finish, although the Tigers showed decided improvement over their
last week’s below - par performance.

South-End Start Fast

On the opening whistle South
End rushed the ball into Tiger territory and were able to hold it
there for the first five minutes,
scoring eight successive points.
However, Dal overcame this deficit
on baskets by Blakeney, Knight,
Farquhar and E. Rogers, to take
the lead 9-8. Where the game had
been quite fast, it now slowed down

Poll Show Opinions Differ

® CARTOONIST Bob Tuck has pictured exactly the situation

of Canadian and English Football in
Lately there has been much controversy on the
games

students.
relative merits of the two

the eyes of Dalhousie

and the possibility of its

innovation to Dalhousie and even to the Maritime Intercolle
giate League.

Te several students interviewed at random,

members of the Gazette Sports staff have posed the question,
“Do you approve of Canadian Football replacing English Football in Maritime Intercollegiate play ?”’

Here are some of the replies:

“BUGS” MACKENZIE:
dian game takes “too much
VERN WALLACE: “I

In favor of English rugby since the
time”, and costs too much.
aprove of the

Cana
Canadian game since it is

more spectacular and more scientific’.

DON ROGERS: “

game the number of injuries would decrease . .

Canadian”’.
ART HARTLING:

time to practice so can Dal”.
JIM McLAREN:

secause of the protective
“A better game
The cost can be paid off in a few years and if

“The English game
and skill rather than weight and brute strength.

pads in the Canadian
. much more fun playing

to watch is Canadian football.
other colleges can find

requiring speed
calls

is preferable,
It is more open,

for more teamwork—thus more spectacular from every standpoint.

RALPH COOLEY:
more thrilling and spectacular.
found in the English game”.

KEN McLENNAN:

there are several reasons why we can not rush into it.
outlay of approximately $70 per man;

“T approve of the Canadian game because it is
There is continuity of play which is not

“T approve of Canadian taking over in time, but

(1) the initial

(2) other colleges-than Dalhousie

will not change immediately and thus the Intercollegiate spirit which
now is on the upgrade will decrease.”

CARL GIFFIN:
point of view.
exciting as English rugger.”

MIKE WATERFIELD:
the game”’—

HARVEY McKEOUGH:

“Yes, |

approve,
In actual playing Canadian football is not

“Yes,

since

but from the grandstands

as fast or

only

a

“No, not enough time to practice or to learn

Canadian is more spectacular

it attracts ‘more spectators, although English Rugger requires more skill
and speed on the part of the players”.

HEC POTHIER:

“Stick to English
more enjoyable from the players’ angle.

sinee it and

a chance to

is better
has

Rugby
Each player

handle the ball and get in the actual play”,

JIM BELL:

“Personally I favour the English game.
ourselves in being the only province or
English game, but until we can develop

We can pride
provinces that still play the
a brand of that football to a

standard pleasing to the public we are fighting a losing battle.”

“STINKY” M®RRISON: “I

better game to watch.”
“SHORTY” FAULKNER:

far better game to watch.
DICK CURRIE:

stand Canadian football. (2)

favour
features more players and from the

“Tl favour English rugby
Canadian Football costs
“No, for three reasons, (1) Spectators don’t underInability

Football because it
spectators point of view it is a

Canadian

because it is a
too much.”

to procure good coaches. (3)

Expense in buying and keeping equipment in good shape.

Cub Hoopers Whip South End 34-29

considerably, - with the Bengals
loosening up and not checking too

togers scored field goals, followed
Shortly afterwards by Farquhar,

closely. Garnie Wooden, the big who scored on a breakaway, to put
gun for the losers, demonstrated the game on ice. As the final
his uneanny accuracy many times whistle belw, the Cubs were the

to give South End a slight margin
for the period which ended 19-14.
Dal Overcomes Lead

The Matthew-coached quintet
really played basketball in the final
frame. The South End hoopsters
were not able to follow the Tigers
who had superiority in everything
but shooting. On baskets by Dunlop and Farquhar, Dal took the
lead only to have it cut again by
Theriault. With seven minutes to
go, the score stood 25-24 for the
Tigers. The teams exchanged
point for point till the score was
29-28 for the Cubs opponents, then
in a last minute drive, Dunlop and

victors, 34-29.
Many Fouls

teferee J. Eccles called 30 fouls
in the struggle, sixteen to South
Kind and 14 to Dal. The South End
crew garnered nine free shots ‘and
the Bengals eight. Eddie Rogers,
ex-Acadia star was a tower of
strength for the Cubs, using his
height and speed to advantage.
Blakeney and Knight starred defensively. Farquhar was high
scorer with seven points.

Lineup: Blakeney 5, Knight 2,
Kenty,. D. Rogers, E. Rogers 5,
Barquhar 7, Pothier, Robinson 3,
Creighton 3, Mitchell 8, Dunlop 6.

  

wetlr = Tt
“a

 

y Varsity Pucksters Out’
rirst Practice of Season

* *

Former Varsity Stars
Show Wares; Wealth Of
New WN Material ‘Unearthed

The hockey season at Dalhousie started with a bang last
Tuesday, when the first practice session was held at the Arena.
Instead of the usual turnout, there were enough to make up

 

nearly three teams.

 

Engineers, Commerce

Win To Tie For First
Place With Lawyers

® COMMERCE AND Engineers
worked into a first place tie with
Law last Thursday evening when
Engineers toppled Arts & Science
34-32, and Commerce swamped
Frosh 58-30,

Engineers 34; Arts & Science 32

The initial contest featured speed
and few openings for scoring. Lew
Bell sparked the Draughtsmen by
using his height to great advantage, to help the Engineers take
quite a lead in the first period,
which ended 17-8

Arts & Science found the hoop
in the second frame and soon tied
the score with the Engineers. With
one minute to go the score was
evened at 32 all, when Lew Bell
hooped another shot which proved
to be the winning basket. Thus
the game ended 34-32,

sell and MacWilliams starred offensively and defensively for Engineers, Bell with 17 points. Farquhar and Blakeney sparked Arts
and Science,

Commerce 58; Frosh 30

The second game was very onesided, Commerce having a great
advantage in the play. In the first
half the Millionnaires worked hard
to build up a large margin between the two teams.

Creighton and Dunlop were the
springs for the Commerce offensive
garnering 20 and 16 points respectively, while Morrow and Hannington kept up the Frosh effort.

Former Varsity teams were well
represented by: Dick Currie, Dave
Churchill-Smith, Bob Wade,
Graves, Doug Clarke, Ed Crowell,
Ken Wilson and Art Lightfoot.

Unlike football, there
sizeable group of ex-servicemen

i.
Aen

was a

trying for the team. On the ice we
also noticed many former high

school stars, such as George Hanrahan and Gerald O’Shaughnessy.

Other aspirants present included:
Bill Snuggs, Art Hartling, Norm.
Ferguson, Paul Lee, J. Beck, Al
Kenty, B. Creighton, J. Harris, J.
Cregan, G. Naugle, D. Leverman,

C. Morgan, W. Morris, Lamont,
Steeves, Barrett, Bob Mumford,
Don Isnor, §S. Brown, Murray

Green, Campbell, Jim Mont, Bob
McQuinn, Kent, LeBlanc, Blakeney,
b. Lyle, C. Rice, C. Piggott. No
longer can Dal sport enthusiasts
raise the old ery of “too little and
too late.”

The only position with too few
competitors is that of goal. It
would help considerably if some of
those who have had experience in
this position would come to the
next practice.

 

Lineups: Arts & Science—Farquhar 12, Robinson 2, Pearson,
Knight 4, Mosher 6, Blakeney 8,
MacKay, Best.

Engineers: Duff 4, Faulkner,
Chapman 6, Lamont 2, Bell 17, G.
Smith 2, Eisenberg, D. Clarke,
Bauld 3, MacWilliams.

Frosh: MacKenzie 4, Simpson 4,

Hannington 6, Henderson 2, Morrow 8, Kent 2.

Commerce: Cooley 6, Rogers 8,
Creighton 20, Kenty 2, James. 2,

Dunlop 16, Mont 4,

 

@® SERVICEMEN who have returned to University will
find that their clothing needs for re-entry into civilian

life—whether sporting, collegiate, or social wear

—Can

be smartly met from our full lines of Clothing.
@® DROP in and see our stock at...

SHANE’S MEN’S WEAR SHOP

112 Spring Garden Road

pte d err

DELICIOUS DARK CHOCOLATE
wit ROASTED ALMONDS

 

B8245U

 
