  
  

f

A,

    
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
    
   
    
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
   
      
   
   
   
   
    
   
    
   
   
   

 

A GAMMA SUPPLEMENT

COLLEGE cO-EDs CONTROL CAMPUS CROWD

 

OLDEST

ry

STUDENT

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 25, 1946

PUBLICATION

 

No. 12

 

The Great Tragedy of

1946. A Report from
The Future Dal Gazoot

By BILL KELLY

@® DECEMBER, 1949.
early fall.

It was a hard and stormy night in
High in a tower in the Forrest Building, the Senate

was holding a secret session. It was plain that something had

to be done.

Student enrollment was so high that the strain

was becoming too great for the buildings.

The library had been forced to
throw out a quarter of its books to
make room for some Arts students
who were living in the stacks; Engineers were looking through both

ends of transits; Meds, scalpels in

hand, were casting envious eyes at
each other. Obviously, the situation was grim.
“Tt’ll Drive ’em Nuts!”

© Suddenly, a wizened little character jumped to his feet. “I have
it”, he cried. Producing a handful
of little pasteboard tickets, he
waved them under his cohorts’
noses. “Show the students these,”
he shrieked, “it’ll drive them nuts!”
“He then explained that if enough
students were driven to insanity,
the rest would have plenty of room
to move around. Amid cheers from
all assembled, plans for this sadistic scheme were laid. First, common rooms were equipped with
tables, suggestively placed by the
chairs. A few deck of cards were
distributed among the weaker members of the student body. Bridge
was born at Dalhousie.

In a few weeks the bridge was
terrific. Immediate results began
to show. One Hovellite was carried away séreaming; then an Engineer ‘was shipped away still
shouting:

Yell, Yell, Seven Hearts!

This is better than playing darts!
Bridging builders, doubling bids,
My cerebellum’s hit the skids.

Move Across the Harbour?

Soon everyone went nuts, and there
was a good deal of talk of moving
the University across the harbour.
In thirteen months, Dalhousie was
a ghost-college, populated only by
the professors, who had clung tenaciously to good old fashioned
poker.

This is the end of the sad story

 

@® THE QUESTION discussed at
the Dalhousie Citizens’ Forum,
January 22, 1946, is one of vital interest to Canadians. Does Canadian Prosperity Depend On Export
Markets?

The Forum felt the answer to be
in the affirmative but that a much
greater stability is required in our

| export trade than was evident in
It was noted that in.

prewar years. :
(1929 our exports dropped 65%,

‘while our national income dropped

  
 

  
 
 
   
  
   
  
  

BOI. ‘This i is clear indication of the ©

our Cen

of bridge at Dal. The place is
empty. The stacks are stuck; the
water has evaporated from the
jolly balance glasses; mould grows
(Continued on page 6)

Library Bulletin

@® DALHOUSIE students will be
allowed free subscription to the
Book Club for the remainder of the
college year, the Library Committee announced recently. The fee has
been cancelled to allow more students to profit from the variety of
modern fiction and biography offered by membership in the Book Club.
Students wishing to take advantage
of this arrangement, should visit
the Dalhousie Book Club on the top
floor of the Library building.

The committee has also announced
that a “suggestion box” will be
placed in the main reading room.
Students’ suggestions will be considered by the Committee and as
many books as possible acquired for
the Library.

 

MED BALL

 

Above are pictured a party of merry-makers at the Medical Ball last
Friday night. Held in the Nova Scotian Hotel, the Ball, preceded by the
annual banquet of the Medical Socitay, climaxed a day of festivities for

the student doctors.

 

Attention Veterans!

Questionnaires concerning Housing, Cost of Living and Summer
Employment, will be distributed
over the weekend. All veterans
are requested to complete these
questionnaires accurately, and return them to the D.S.V.A. representative who will be on duty at the
Business Office when the monthly
benefit cheques are picked up.

wise to turn her atention to building a large variety of industries at
home, producing more for the home
market than for a world market.
We disagree with this policy, although we do retain the same
underlying fear. It is the fear of a
return of the depression years.
During those years, as _ before,
Canada endeavoured to build up an
export trade while still retaining
high tariffs to protect home industry.
Policies Not Analogous

These two policies are not analogous. There must be a revision in
If we are to en

   

dle ad a 
1-act Play Cast

@® DELTA GAMMA and Arts and
Science will compete for the Connolly Shield tonight in the Gym at
8 p.m. °

The Delta Gamma girls are staging Philip Johnson’s “World without Men” with the following cast:
Millet, Renee Garrett; Miss Wisper,
Kay Whitehouse; Madame Pavel,

Continued on page five

Export Trade Necessary?

industries at the sacrifice of our export trade and standard of living.
Those who advocate this policy be
lieve that it would have the effect’

of stabilizing the national income
and making the country less dependent on the fluctuations of a
world market. The alternative is
to increase our export trade at the
sacrifice of industries, producing
for home consumption only, by the
elimination of tariffs; something
that we could not expect under conditions of edited trade.

We of thé, Forum. hope for the
materializatign of the free trade
policies now\ being advocated by
world politicidns at the present sesagi st: the UNO in London,

ao

- did the Engineers prove victorious,

Glee Club Presenting
Concert Recital At
Nova Scotian, Jan. 28

@® ON MONDAY evening, January
28th, the Dalheusie Glee and Dramatic Society will present a Concert Recital in the Nova Scotian
Hotel. The programme will open
with a welcoming address by Miss
EKileen Phinney. The first number
will be “Toccata and Fugue” by
Bach, played on the organ by David
Archibald, followed by selections by
the Dalhousie Chorus, including
“Traditional Dutch Prayer of
Thanksgiving”, Strauss’ “Wine,
Women, and Song”, and “Duna,”
sung by the Male Quartet. During
the evening, Frances Saulnier and
Lorna Roome will render violin
interpretations of “Tambourin”,
“Spanish Dance”, and “Granados”
by Kreisler. Another of the enjoyable features of the evening will
be “Rondo Capriccioso” by Mendelssohn, played on the piano by Mary
Lou Christie. Marjorie Coady, brilliant young soprano, will render
“Alma Mia” from Floridante by
Handel, “Ouvre ton Coeur” by
Bizet, and other selections. Following Miss Coady’s selections, Geoffrey Payzant, outstanding young
Halifax organist, will play “Sonata,
Op. 61” by Guilmant.

Second Half

The second half of the program
will open with the playing of Purcell’s “Trumpet Voluntary”, featuring Cyril Bugden on the trumpet,
assisted by Geoffrey Payzant at the
organ. Terry Monaghan will then
sing selections for Mezzo-Soprano
voice, which include “Habanero”
from Carmen, by Bizet, and “Invocation to Life’ by Charles
Spross. Miss Monaghan will then
render the piano selections “Malaguena” and “Gitanerias” by Lecuona. The programme will continue with Neil Van Allen playing
“Scherzo No. 2 in B Flat” by
Chopin, and “Rhapsodie Hongroise
No. 2” by Liszt, on the piano. The
programme will conclude with the
playing of the “Hungarian Dances
No. 5 and No. 6” by Brahms, and
“Gopak” by Moussorgsky.

 

Engineers Take Win
From Delta Gamma in

Wed. Night Debating

@ A FEATURE of Co-ed Week
was the interfaculty debate held
Wednesday evening in the Chem
Theatre.

The resolution, “Resolved that
Sadie Hawkins Day is an undesirable institution”, was ably debated
by a Delta Gamma team upholding
the affirmative and a team of Engineers presenting the negative
case.

Representing the fair sex were
Liz Reeves, Terry MacLean, and
Lois Rattee, while George van Beck,
Bill Kelly and Vie Aulsby poured
forth their eloquence on behalf of
the Engineers.

Liz Reeves and Bill Kelly rebutted well. It was a hard, clean
fight, and only by a narrow margin

—
- ay —— = ee

See pages 3, 4

O’Hearn Successful in
Appeal to Moot Court

Hall Girls Freed on Trespass Charge

@ RICHARDSON CJ, McCleave J, and McIntosh J, sat on the

appeal of the defendant in the case of Taylor v

. Kinnon, and

allowed it, O’Hearn K.C., for the appellant, and Hart K,. GC. for
the respondent, Richardson CJ dissenting.

A little girl of 12 went to a
beautician’s school for a permanent
wave, and came close to getting a
permanent shave when a student
burned said little girl’s head by
twisting same too tightly around a
coil. The poor kid cried out
“Ouch”. The student tried again,
with the same result, spoken with
perhaps more feeling. The student
assuaged the pain with cold air and
a pad, but the damage was done.

Damage to her ear followed, and
she missed a lot of time at school.
The lower court allowed damages
and attributed negligence to the
defendant. The latter appealed
against the decision, alleging that
there was no negligence proved.

O’Hearn K.C. was well. briefed
on his case and put forward a
strong argument. Hart K.C. successfully and forcefully rebutted
most of his learned friend’s arguments, but failed to allege negligence, after atempting to persuade
the court that res ipsa loquitur
applied. As a result, the appeal
was allow ed, with the Chief Justice
delivering a lengthy dissenting
judgment.

Yeoman persistently showed contempt for the court, and accused
the sheriff, Abe Sheffman, of telling
untruths, for which the former
was fined.

The Hall girls were hailed before the court and charged with
trespass on the case. They refused
to come forward and the sheriff
was ordered to bring them forward. Unaccustomed as he was to
the handling of women, he had

(Continued on page 6)

Co-eds Cut Capers As

Males Run For Cover
During Hectic Session

@ AT LAST, WOMEN’S day has
come! Now the girl pines no longer
at home, waiting for Beau Brummel to send some happiness over
the phone. This week, hundreds of
males are waiting by telephones,
hanging outside of Shirreff Hall
(under cover of course), and. making eyes at the females in the gym
store. If they don’t get the comeon, they stay at home.

Co-eds started off bravely by inviting the lucky ones to the Open
House at Shirreff Hall, last Saturday night. Music was supplied by
the college quartette, led by trumpeter Don Warner, while Art Hartling, the college crooner, sang the
love songs.

Bridge Tournament

Forty bridge players fought it
out Monday night. The prize, that
is, the chocolates, went to Harry
Rhude and partner Liz Reeves.
Alec McKay took the chocolates
for the highest. Cartons inside of
each other finally containing alleys
turned out to be the consolation
prize, awarded to George (Sadie)
Hawkins and Jo Robertson.

“History is made at Night” (and
how), with Charles Boyer, made its
appearance on the screen in the
chemistry theatre Wednesda y
night.

New methods in asking out the
opposite sex are now being tried’
out. The boys have much to learn
from the fair ones. However, the
girls seem to favour that of showing the candidate a ticket with the
accompanying remark: “Have you
heard about this? Well.”

But they don’t stop at asking the
favoured out on dates. Many a
boy has been getting free coffee
lately. Pretty ones are even giving
up their moo in the e.aymn store.

ae ee

 

Pharos Saleswoman...

 

. Nita Sederis

Pharos Staff Announce

Elaborate Layouts For
Enlarged Year Book

® THE ENLARGED edition of the
1946 Pharos will have 152 pages,
and the book will be bound by
large, padded covers. The Year
Book will feature pictures of permanent interest; one ten-page section
will include beautiful pictures of
all the college buildings; another
section will include portraits of the
professors; other sections will feature Graduates, Under-Graduates,
Organizations and Athletics. Concise, lively and original writeups
and short articles will augment the
pictures.

The various classes will be represented in Pharos by group pictures,
The picture of the Sophomores and
Juniors in Arts & Science will be
taken during the first part of next
week, so these classes are asked to
watch the signboards for this’ announcement. Also, the Commerce
picture will be taken and a group
shot of the Pre-Meds, who are not
taking a degree. The four classes
in Medicine will be taken separately, sometime during the latter part
of the week. Law and Dentistry

will also be represented by group
shots.

 

Schedules Announce
For Intercollegiate,
Interfaculty Debates

® PROGRAM of the Sodales Debating Soriety for coming term
was the chief topic of discussion at
recent meetings of the Society’s
executive. Following is the interfaculty debating schedule that was
drawn up:

January 22: Delta Gamma vs.

Engineers,
Resolution: “Resolved that Sadie
Hawkins’ Day is an undesirable

institution.

January 29: Law (first team) vs.
Arts & Science (third team).

Resolution: “Resolved that comic
strips do more harm than good.”

February 5: Arts & Science (first
team) vs. Uicedtnsaes.

Resolution: “Resolved that women’s clothes are more practical than
men’s,”

February 12: Delta Gamma vs.
Law (second team),

Resolution: “Resolved that
columns of ‘Advice to the Lovelorn’ do more harm than good.”

February 19: Arts & Science

(Continued on page 6)

 

 
 

 

oe Staff
Editor eeceeaeeeseese Bill Mingo
V4 id 3 Business Manager ..Bob McCleave
Associate editors:
News .........-. Blair Dunlop
Don Harris
Sports ........ Alec Farquhar
Features eeeeeoeeeee Al Lomas
Literary .......Morton Norman
Photography ... Don Morrison
Cartoons—Bob Tuck.
Circulation—Nita Sideris
Mary Farquhar

 

  
 
 
   
    
 
 
    
  
   
    
  
 
 
  
  
  
     
  
  
   
 
    
   
    
 
   
 
    
  
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
    

"4 ITE Mt was pied 5 es
‘he Gazette, carrying in me
“Warm Feeling Toward Alma

1t of the hearty ‘reception given the
on of the University during a visit to
Clu ’s headquarters in the American
opolis. No doubt the speeches were
ont . the ns impressive, but

oo. month a reply was received to
ent last Spring to the New York Club
g subscriptions from among the mema Tt stated that though the letter had
read at the Club’s next dinner, and an
‘made, “the response was very poor”.
three subscriptions were offered, and
. of these from a St. F. X. graduate who
sip eae << been at pane es porter of
at 3 rzy, he probably consider e ac
ee %: as within his concept of Christian charity.
(It is s to the credit of the N. Y. Club that they

as. yet are unanswered.) «

rtainly this snub to The Gazette can not
ry stetch of the imagination be interpreted
roof of a general lack of interest on the
of the Alumni for all things Dalhousie.

undergraduates the Alumni Association
ears only to consist of a courageous little
execl ive with not sufficient time for the task,
and an imposing list of names and addresses,
mor e than seven thousand in length, corresding, it seems, to a like number of ex-Dal
U dents now scattered far and wide over the
ig oe Those few of this aggregate who
io happen to be in the city on the occasion may
or may not be persuaded by the aforementioned
cutive to put in an appearance at the annual
mni Smoker—for more speech-making and
and-shaking—while others, residing in places
_ more removed from their alma mater, also
_ apparently attend the odd dinner of the old
_ boys. Further than this, with one or two outfan nding exceptions, their inclination seldom
takes ue whereas the vast majority never
sev this f ar.
Nor i is this attitude so startling to the unergraduates. For, daily, as they progress
_ from year to year, they can discern it growing
i upon themselves. New students, regardless
_ of what preconceived notions of college spirit
may bring away from their respective

ie
es ene on ae ann ata os ean » Fe tat

aus . Tree are nurtured and coddled se the blessom of goodwill and diplomacy.

at 9 rel: ti ives consider so very appropriate for Jackie—the
Le hae vitable white handkerchief “with love from Aunt
n. Jora”, and the traditional drab and colorless tie from
? Bs ey nele Bob.

Ws: Be Jackie then turns hypocrite, under Mother’ $ com
. My fi whic h is greatly appreciated”, and Uncle Bob for his
att ooh tie “which serves a very useful porhoee. ”

oe corner of the attic, whence Mother rescues
a the em. a year later for as white-elephant table of

; artificial Paaa sumnecessary is me practice

$ into te sng

ath. -Y. Dal Club”. It contained an

Relatively Speaking 3 Me

high schools, soon learn from the seniors that
Dathousie is not a united, living community of
scholars, each bound to ‘the other with common interests, but merely a collection of buildings and professors, a place where one may
spend a part of every day for a set length of
time and eventually secure a particular degree.
Rather than made conscious of any obligation
they owe to the University, they are taught
by example to take it completely for granted,
and to them, when they leave, it becomes little
more than a few passive memories.

And thus, when the whole case of a disloyal
and disinterested Alumni is presented to the
“delinquent” Alumnus, his reaction echoes traditional Dalhousie sentiments: ‘Well, what
else is expected?” Indeed, what else is expected? As an undergraduate the Alumnus
ought to have learned to cherish in a special
way the little world where he and his friends
spent some of the best years of their lives;
he ought to have developed a singular attachment for the institution that prepared him for
his little niche in the great social machine;
and he ought to remember that this institution was brought into existence and made
available to him only through the labor of
previous generations, and that now the torch
has been passed on to him, along with the
strong moral responsibility of first perpetuing
the work and then expanding and raising it
to new heights for the uses of posterity.

In concrete terms, he is expected to take
an active part in promoting the interests of
the present student body, and either to subscribe or in some manner obtain funds for the
purchase of more modern and better equipment, that the University may maintain its
high position i in the ranks of educational institutions.

During the past two years MeGill Alumni
has raised a half million dollars for expansion
purposes after having canvassed only 4,500 of
its members. The executive made a personal
tour across the nation soliciting subscriptions.

A similar sum would go a long way toward the

financing of the new Arts and Science building

planned for this campus, but as yet without a

penny for its construction. Both McGill and

Queen’s have set up Alumni employment

agencies through which all graduates are placed

in jobs, agencies operating essentially on the

“patronage” system—alumni members in key

posts hiring only fellow members. Such an

organization will shortly be in dire need at

Dalhousie.

These things can and must be done at this
University, and, because we prefer to remain
independent and shun the shackels of government and religious affiliations, the responsibility for seeing that they are done rests
squarely upon the shoulders of the Alumni.

 

= eneeg es ies ae sane —e c ays
iounonneumnnnccouanninmcaniaeeo roe eR enreese mE SER a ose BASE tn tc SP pein (PATON 7 Whee oe S . 5 2 Sees, |

arrives without fail every winter along with the
influenza and snow-drifts. From the largest chair in
the warmest corner, she delights to denounce all
things modern, to adjudicate on family controversies,
and to disrupt the household system. After a month
or so, she feels she can be of no further help, and
sorrowfully departs to fresher fields,

We could also do without such remarks as: “My,
how you’ve grown, dear boy!”, and “Give your own
Cousin Bessie a big kiss!”, or “Last time I saw you,
you were just—so-o-o—high.” This drivel usually
eminates from the lips of careworn spinisters who
drop in every decade to express bewildered surprise
that Jackie has grown up in the interval.

Etiquette frequently forces us to sacrifice our
evenings for the dubious honor of escorting Third
Cousin Lottie to the cinema. “Make this small sacri
fice dear”, says Mother. “It will mean so much to

poor Lottie and we mustn’t let the neighbors think
we are neglecting our own flesh and blood.”

The ensuing experience is one of great strain to
the nervous system, and you wonder if the sacred

_ cause of kinship is being served to any great advan
tage. When the weather, the family health, and the
patience of both parties have been thoroughly exhausted, you bid each other a regretful adieu with the
assertion that it was “a most pleasant evening”, and
that “we must go again sometime.”

In conclusion, then, we make the wishful appeal

that convention be tempered with mercy, and that the
Family Tree make an effort to blossom forth to
posterity in a normal way without exacting such
d ee from its adherents, "

—J. C, McL,

Nt Cpt ‘

 

es _-: DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Canadian
Campus

@® “LET IT SNOW, let it snow,
let it snow!” is the refrain on all
campi this January for, according
to Canadian Campus information
this week, skiing is far and away
the favourite winter sport of university students from east to west
of the country. Skating and hockey
run near seconds and various indoor
sports are popular, but when conditions are right rinks, pools, badminton and squash courts are neglected as people pack themselves
into trains and buses and head for
neighboring ski runs.

Weather conditions cause opportunities for the sport to vary across
Canada, but everywhere right now
a snowflake is as welcome as the
first sign of spring. The Laurentian area is, of course, the skiiers’
paradise and the facilities this
“little piece of Switzerland” offers
are made full use of by universities
in the district. On all campi reporting this week the sport is organized by clubs which arrange
expeditions, competition, and, although they take their skiing seriously, social activities.

At McGill a general weekly exodus being Friday when ski slacks
are worn to classes. On Monday,
weary athletes return on earlymorning trains and, still wearing
ski slacks, go back to classes. Sun
and wind burn is prevalent. Competitive races are the highlight of
the sport for all Quebec universities
and McGill has two ski teams of
high calibre. The club ski house at
Shawbridge is a centre for cross
country runs while right in Montreal is Mount Royal where floodlights permit after-school skiing.

In the east skating seems to have
a slight edge in popularity over
skiing since good skating conditions can usually be depended on.
With the temperature dropping well
below zero Mount Allison students
now have perfect ice on which to
work off that excess energy but
fingers are still being kept crossed
for a good snow fall. Skiers work
under a handicap because as well
as the snow, the number of close
hills is limited.

There’s lots of snow in Manitoba
this year and Sunday ski expeditions to Sun Valley, Lock-port and
La Riviere are organized by an energetic club. In addition two buses
visit good skiing territory in the
province every week. Manitoba
also reports a vigorous movement
which is under way to rebuild Varsity hockey, neglected for the last
Six years.

Ottawa University has a newly
organized ski club and plans this
year to corral novice and expert
alike into the fold. Competent instructors are holding ski schools to
develop promising talent. The club
is also sponsoring competitive intramural meets and is organizing
parties and an ice festival.

Mid - Lothian Society
Hold Many Meetings,
Carry-on Full Program

@® THIS YEAR as every year since
the founding of the Midlothian Society in 1926, a group of girls meet
each week at Shirreff Hall. At
each meeting, during which refreshments are served, one of the members reviews a current book. Aside
from being most enjoyable, these
meetings enable the student to become familiar with a greater number of books than she alone could
find time to read, and encourage
general reading outside that pertaining to our classes. The membership is limited to fourteen
undergraduates but former members are always welcome at our
meetings.

 

Notice
Meeting of the Graduating Class
in Room 8, Arts Building, Thursday, January 31.
Business—Election } of Convocation Committee; Election of Life
Officers. ine.

 

mar A “fates F eae ie ee ot

   
    
 

SWEET CAPORAL

 
 
 
 
 
 

January 25, 1946

 

ge
<= LIGHT UP AND

— o¢¢

 

 

Yes sir, there’s nothing like a
Sweet Cap to put you in a
relaxed mood when the ‘cram’
session's over!

Bank on a Sweet Cap
for satisfaction—anywhere...
And when you tune in

“LIGHT UP AND LISTEN” WITH

anytime!

CIGARETTES
STATION CHNS

Every Thursday Night 10:30 p.m.

Oe) a lO ET eee. —

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL — SOFT COAL
COKE — FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

*

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

Be Smarr-Loox SMART

BRYLCREEM |

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

PUTO TUTOR Ra UE

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan
in peace: “Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for
your protection that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee, Spices, Peanut
Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

Halhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm.B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Four Year ‘Advanoed Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standi leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc. i Sie

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses,
The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoys an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a mar :

Residence

 

ee

  

 

|

 

 
 
   

for the show.

orn.

 
   
  
   
    
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 

 

DELTA GAMMA SUPPLEMENT

-Huba

 

PUBLISHED ANNUALLY BY DELTA GAMMA

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY, HALIFAX, N. S.

erald

 

Friday, January 25, 1946

 

 

_ The day-to-day journal of aDal freshette
during Co-ed Week

"TIRED as I am, dear diary, I simply can’t let tonite slip by,
unrecorded. I’ve a feeling I’m going to like co-ed week.
Tonite was wonderful. I had made up my mind last week to take
in everything I possibly could, so tonite I called for my date

quite early and we started off for a movie.

He seemed quite

embarrassed when I handed the tram conductor our fare, and
even more so, when I took out my billfold to buy the tickets

He hesitated for a moment, undoubtedly won
dering whether or not he should let me go through with it, but
he didn’t weaken. Apparently, he too had made a decision
regarding co-ed week—to follow the rules and let the gal pay.

“Kitty” proved to be quite an entertaining picture. I was
rather restless at first. I kept asking myself, “Ought I to take

his hand?”

Not that I felt that it was compulsory on account

of co-ed week, but rather because I wanted to repay him in
kind for several very enjoyable movie dates. For his part, he
seemed quite satisfied to let me do the honors. I finally managed it, without causing myself too much embarrassment by
dropping my scarf; we both reached for it at the same instant,
and ended up holding hands and leaving the scarf on the floor

(he retrieved it later).

After seeing the movie, we went
to a nearby restaurant to eat. His
embarrassment at my paying his
way seemed to have disappeared,
and we were now really enjoying
our date. We soon hopped a tram
to Shirreff Hall, my happy “home
away from home,” which had
opened wide its doors to scores of

campus couples. We danced to the.

music of the Dal quartet and the
delightful tunes of that ever-popular swooner-crooner, Art Hartling. At twelve, we said goodnite. I’ve got to cut this short,
dear diary, because I’m running
into the territory of January 19,
1946, but before I do, I want to
tell you of the wonderful scheme
that occurred to me’ as I was saying goodnite to my date. I’ve often

- told you how busy the alcoves us
ually are; well, it’s even worse on
nites when we have open house.

We really ought to initiate a sys
tem whereby everyone gets her
turn (providing she’s willing, of
course), something after the fashion of a theatre line-up, with
freshettes coming up first, since,
after all, the Sophs, Juniors, etc.
get later leaves. Oh well, it’s quite
late now, and I’m too tired to think

beyond getting to bed; so

Good-nite.
January 21—Monday
wee. dear diary, I apologize
for neglecting you yesterday;
I really didn’t have anything very
interesting to tell you. In fact, all

I did all day was work myself into
a dilemna about to-nite. Whom

' should I take out? No sooner had

I made up my mind about that,

when I was confronted with the
problem of deciding between taking him to bridge and taking him
skating. You see, being a very
versatile young man, he is equally
good at both. I decided (I asked
him what he wanted to do, but his
answer was neither bridge nor
skating) that bridge would be nice.
With my Culbertson in hand, I
ealled for him. We arrived at the
common room a little late, and so
we weren’t able to pick as opponents a couple, whose limitations,
where bridge was concerned, we
knew, were far greater than our
own.

As luck would have it, we were
paired by the committee in charge
with a couple, whose enthusiasm
to get started should have been

enough to warn us to change our —

minds while we were still able.
Well, we got started, but frankly
we didn’t do so well, Even Culbertson couldn’t help us. We were
quite badly beaten. After the
bridge party, we took a walk to
the drugstore and had cokes and
sandwiches. I decided to see my
date home and really be a considerate escort-ess. In spite of our
failure in bridge we spent a very
enjoyable evening. I might add
that my date to-nite, very unlike
Saturday’s suffered no qualms
about doing the treats, for which
I am truly glad since it saved us
both a great deal of embarrassment
(silly, isn’t it?) Co-ed week’s off
to a good start now, and there’s
lots of fun ahead—theatre party
Wednesday, dance Thursday, ete.
Must concentrate on getting a date

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Program Tonight With
Connolly Shield Play

® “WORLD WITHOUT MEN” the
play which Delta Gamma is entering in the Connolly Shield competition this year promises to provide
a very amusing half hour. It is
under the direction of Mr. J. G.
Robertson. The cast includes Thora
Reid as Madame Pavel, a domineering scientist; Kay Whitehouse
as Miss Wisper, a young journalist;
Renee Garrett as Millett, the elderly parlourmaid; and four discontented women hoping to be freed
from their husbands. These ladies
include Margot Lass, as Mrs.
Smith; Shirley Weatherbee as Mrs.
Jones; Joan Godfrey as Mrs. Robininclude Margot Ross, as Mrs.
Brown.

The plot couldn’t have been more
appropriate, being presented as it
is during Sadie Hawkins week
when the femmes show the men
what a woman’s world is like.

‘Delta Gamma Ending McGosh Unearths Sinster

Origins of Co-ed Week in
Expose of Hovel Inmates

by J. CRICKET MeGOSH
@ McGOSH WAS FLATTERED but depressed when a group
of Marmalade Hovellers phoned him the other night for a story

on “The Origins of Co-ed Week’’.

He was already deeply

embroiled in his weekly Dal Daze and had yet to produce an

harangue for the Nausea page.

In addition, he was endeavor
ing to keep abreast of his thesis reading for pedagogue G.
Laffyville. Nevertheless, all things considered, he felt it would
be best to comply. The facts of the case follow.

Precautions Against Intruders

Many years ago, at the instigation of Warden Annie MacSharp,
Marmalade Hovel was surrounded
with barb-wire entanglements and
strewn with land-mines to take on
the form of a veritable armed fortress. The precaution arose after
a Travelling Salesman was discovered by The Warden smiling
brightly through the iron gratings
at a frail young missie within. The
Salesman was subsequently handed

 

Co-ed Chatter

by IMA CAT

® CO-ED WEEK is nearly over
and tonight’s your last chance girls
to catch that man (none of them
are worth the effort) and we hope
to see you alli there grabbing and
scratching.

ee

Catty was everywhere this week
and has seen all, and what she
missed Knowsey will tell you next
week—won’t you, Blair?

* ke

The Meds tried to assure themselves a busy week by holding their
annual Ball just before the Skirts
took over the rule of the Campus.
This small, quiet affair held by the
boys from Frosty Hollow, was a
diplomatic gesture toward the girls
but not quite subtle enough. And
speaking of the Med Ball, we might
remind Faye and Monk that the
dance floor is hardly the place for
them to cool their ardour for each
other. Pat Patterson, a very quiet
boy from Law School, is trying to
set a new style in formally appearing at the Ball (slip—meant Brawl)
in a Cashmere Sweater. Ann
Matchett had lots of Kisses to
spare that night and they weren’t
all for Keith!

* * &

Joan Godfrey just couldn’t go to
the Med Ball. Oh Deah!! She
doesn’t hold her pre-Christmas grip
on Phi Rho.

oe

Hearts were trumps, or maybe
clubs, but anyway Jan and Connie
turned their attention to the Law
School for that night and had Jack

(Continued on page 4)

     

over to the Mounties and the frail
young missie had her hair shaved
off and was subjected to a public
humiliation in the residence pillory.

Miss MacSharp realized then and
there that her wards were in mortal danger and engaged the services of the Royal Canadian Engineers in fortifying the “environs” of The Hovel against unwelcome intruders. Prior to operations, each member of the corps
was obliged to take an oath that
he would not “smile or chat in an
improper way” with any of the
girls residing therein. Signs reading “Beware: Land Mines” were
posted and the inmates were provided with maps and detecting apparatus so they could pick their
way through the “danger areas”
in an emergency.

Miss MacSharp and three armed
aides accompanied the Hovel party
to classes each morn and sat in the
back of the lecture rooms to protect their charges from what The
Warden termed as: “the covetous
glances of the male element.”

Restricted Social Life

Social life for the Hovel girls
was almost non-existent. They
were allowed a ten-minute “supervised” stroll in the courtyard on
Sunday afternoons. They had a
“knitting circle” which met every
five weeks under chairmanship of
comely Cunning Itchybald, and a
quarterly “Cultural Group” chairmanned jointly by Misses Lozenge
Mousie and Jayan Grilse. Only
recreation was a yo-yo class conducted by instructress Midge Lanyard. Bobbie Whittle, who served
as Executive Officer to The Warden, commanded The Hove! Deence Platoon recruited from ‘the

     

tested and true” for security purposes.

But opposition to the MacSharp
regime was fast brewing. Through
publications smuggled to them
from “outside contacts” the girls
read of love and romance and developed a yearning for male companionship. The vast majority had
at one time or other attended
Church with either their father or
brother—but such was the extent
of their “outings” with the opposite sex. A secret underground
movement was organized, and one
bright morning the girls threw off
their chains of oppression, locked
up Warden MacSharp and her
deputies in the confinement cells,
and assumed the trappings of normal human beings.

Liberated at last, the inmates
jumped out windows, slid down
drain-pipes and crawled through
gratings into the cool, clear air of
Buttonmeadow campus.

“We want men, men, men!”
shrieked Cunning Itchybald hurling aside her knitting needles.
“Come on girls! This’ll be simply
wunnerful—gee, I can hardly wait.”
But, contrary to expectation, Cunning, her side-kick Lozenge Mousie
and, in fact, the entire Hovel population, got the proverbial coldshoulder from Dullhousie males.

“Who the heck is them?” an
Engineer was heard to remark.
“T aint never see nuttin like dat
since da circus came to town.”

And so it went. Crooner Gunther Rothling was quite unimpressed when Boobie Whittle grovelled at his feet in submission.
Murdock Wetmeadow crawled farther under his coon-skin cap before the amorous advances of botanist Izzy Walnut, and Elixir Distantram had naught but a wry face
when pert Mimi Madonna collapsed

(Continued on page 4)

Vox Discipulli

“Do you think Co-ed
Week should be made

an institution at Dal?”

John P. Nicholson, Law ’47.

@® CERTAINLY NOT, nor do I
think it should be an institution
anywhere. For why should university students, in times when wholesale suffering and privation are
visited on many people of the
world, give themselves up to imitating the uncouth, witless antics of
fictitious, illiterate mountain folk
whose undeserved popularity is exceeded only by the unbelievable
childishness of the adults who follow their escapades in the Sunday
papers. If we must read about
them, let us do it secretly, but let’s
not imitate them.

J. Cricket McGosh: Why, gee, I
think it’s wunnerful (giggle, giggle). No foolin’ (gulp). Everyone is so swell and everything’s so
grand, it makes me so thrilled I
could scream. And one whole week
of it, too. Just think! Gee! I hope
I said the right thing (giggle,
giggle). I wouldn’t wanna offend
no one,

Margot Ross: I think Co-ed Week
is a good idea because I think the
girls should take a more active
part. Women are just as capable
as men and the men need a push
anyway, and this will be plainly
shown, I hope, after this hectic
week—but thank God it’s only lasting for a week. I’m broke already.

Bill Kelly: Huba! Huba! Huba!

Frannie Jubien: I think that having Co-ed Week become an institution is a wonderful idea. All year
the boys take us out and spend
money on us, so why shoudn’t we
return the hospitality? They deserve it.

(Continued on page 4)

 

Man:

OR SHERRIFF HALL

EYES THEM ALL

Ladies, let us look at the creature—Man!

N. B.—If you can.

Man, as a general rule, is considered a brute—

P.S.—(But rater cute.)

Some women go for the suave, considerate gentleman,

And others like the magnificent,
But whichever you like, it is certain

elemental man,

That his virtues are equally few, and his vices just as diverting,
For though, in the masculine branch of the homo sapiens,

There are sad ones and happy ones,
And some who would stoop to anything, anda few who are stainless,

They are all equally brainless,

And the story of the “stronger” sex is a myth and a delusion,

For an hour or two of housecleaning throws them into confusion,

And all, whether they are short or fat or “slender, tender and tall”,
Though they claim to have nothing against pink or yellow, dress soberly

in grey or black or blue,

From hat to shoe,
Except for the tie,

Which is modelled on a rainbow or a potato bug or a fruit salad, and

catches the eye,

And drags it a block or two and knocks it down and tramps on it,

Furthermore, it is only fit

To say that, though gossip’s considered a woman’s dominion,

It is my opinion

That whenever men borrow cigars from their friends and seek the smoker,

their natural habitat,
They talk about “this and that”

But, since they’ve let men into Dal, it doesn’t do to be rash,

Qo

I'l! leave the rest unsaid, especially as the supper bell just rang and

they might, as a treat, serve hash,

—

ae

—Apologies, Mr. Nash.

  

o ; a
él ts re
2 “ae
ag 5 7” ~~ ¥

¥ 7 et

. Pes eel e
b, co ne “as a ed = ee > hee ee Ss
s é a : . “4 i ad am, Coe Pants é a mh a
= Ta " a et ‘ i ' fee ro flue: Pe s we yg i alee

£20, glial DC able ; fais : i

== he —S—S—= == E = _=; = === =_— = : =i : ! 5

 

 
 

. ’ a
Mag ee i SS

 

 
 
 

   

 

 

 

  
 

a
ee ,
e
ee
7. .°

i,

ah

Report Busy Year; Girls
Active in Campus Affairs

| Barrington St. - Halifax
ae

Ona TS

a. eae dh
af a

+ J : o/ “ i?
a kia F rm
ies , Prat
Me
‘ J 7

    
  
 
 
 
 
 

ee

; yt

 

Pictured above is Delta Gamma’s slate of officers for 1945-46.
From left to right they are: Front row: Mary Macdonald, senior representative; Virginia Phillips, President of the D.G.A.C.; Connie Archibald,

President of Delta Gamma;

Lois Rattie, Secretary-Treasurer of Delta

Gamma, and Elizabeeth Reeves, debating manager.

~ Back row: Mollie Schwartz, social manager; Kaye MacLean, social man
ager; Louise Jodrey, junior representative, and Terry MacLean, dramatics
manager. Absent from the picture were Irene Robinson, freshette representative, and Anne Matchell, sophomore representative.

ONCE AGAIN DELTA GAMMA has quite an active year
to its credit. The year started with an Open House the pro
ceeds from which were given to the Community Chest.

They

amounted to $40.00 Every effort was extended to make this
a successful dance, even to having a small Dalhousie Tiger

which went to the winners of the elimination dance.

The girls

also made voluntary contributions through banks placed in the
Girls’ Common Room and Shirreff Hall.

There has not been as much done
this year as last in the line of debating. One team, composed of Liz
Reeves, Terry MacLean and Lois
Rattee has entered interfaculty

Co-ed ae

Nicholson and Alex Hickman as

their partners.
* * 3k

Sadie Hawkins had her coming
out party at Shirreff Hall Saturday night, and we saw all kinds of
people of which.we might mention
Alex Stewart and Mary Farquhar;
Terry and Creighton; Zen and
Nancy C.

 

After Any Show
Before Any Meai
- Think of...

The
. Green Lantern

 

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE,
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

NURSERIES Limited...
381 parrincton st-Hairax

“Birks Challenger
Watch Time”

      

Many times you have heard
these words over the radio.

    
  
 

  

Aren't you a little curious
to see a Challenger? This is
not an invitation, its a dare to
come in and resist one.

      
 
    

Henry Birks and Sons
Registered Jewellers
American Gem Society

     
  

    

 

competition. Arrangements are
also being made for a debate with
Mount St. Bernard to be held here
at Dalhousie.

Also One-Act Play

Delta Gamma is also entering a
one-act play, “World Without Men”,
in the Connolly Shield competition.
Dramatics has been capably managed this year by Terry MacLean,
who started early in the year to
gather her cast.

At a Students’ Council Meeting
last October, it was decided that
a committee should be appointed to
investigate the properties, etc. of
the Glee Club and submit recommendaticns to the Council as to
how the properties in the Glee Club
could be improved, and it seemed to
be the wish of the Council that
Delta Gamma should shoulder this
task. Consequently, the executive
of Delta Gamma elected a Committee, consisting of Irma MacQuarrie, Thora Reid, Christine
Irvine and Connie Archibald, who
earried out the task successfully
and submitted worthwhile recommendations to the Council.

Big Venture Co-ed Week

However, Delta Gamma’s biggest
venture this year was Co-ed week,
which has just finished. It was the
first Co-ed week Dalhousie has had.
Little more need be said than has
already been said in this issue.
Much of the credit for the success
of this week should be given to the
President, Connie Archibald, for it
was chiefly her enthusiasm and
drive that kept the plans rolling
smoothly.

Vox Discipuli
(Continued from page 3)

Louise Jodrey: In my opinion
Sadie Hawkins’ week is a wonderful institution. Even when it’s
called Co-ed Week it’s still refreshing. There’s only one way I can
convey to you my ideas on the
situation, and that is by the following poem (7).

Sadie Hawkins, the week of weeks,

‘The time when the drips get asked
out by the freaks,

When a whole year’s knitting and
magazine reading

Are lost in elation. of total succeeding;

The girls with the steadies can
then take a rest,

And make room for their sisters,
who with less are blest.

In fact, all complexes are passed to
the breezes,

While their owners replace them
with masculine seueéges.

‘DELTA GAMMA SUPPLEMENT

In Delta Gamma

Sheila Currie: “Hefto” as she is
fondly known, is a freshette and a
former H.L.C. girl. She is girl’s
ping pong manager, has lots of initiative, an eye for fun, plays good
ground hockey, badminton, and is
good at most sports.

Jan Gillis: A ‘willing and able
worker, Jan cheerfully gives a lot
of her time helping the Glee Club
with costumes, make-up, refreshments, etc. Graduating this year
in Arts, Jan’s sincere interest in
Dal- affairs will be very much
missed next year.

Pat Jones: An outstanding player at most sports, Patsy leads the
field in basketball and ground
hockey, being a star forward on
both teams. Pat is also sports
manager for the soph. class.

Pat MacKinnon: Fun-loving and
vivacious, “Feel-my-muscle” MacKinnon is a Freshette who is really
going places. ‘aking Pre-Med, at
present her interests lie in that certain Com. student.

Anne Matchett: An Arts student
hailing from New Brunswick, Anne
is on the House Committee at
Shirreff Hall, and is Soph. representative on Delta Gamma executive. “Petite and fair” her size
didn’t hinder her from being a
hard-fighting left-winger on this
year’s ground hockey team.

Joan Murray: Joan is noted for
her golden tresses and a star sapphire ring from a certain Tech man.
She is on the Co-ed Week committee and as such she is one of those
responsible for making Dalhousie’s
first such event a great hit.

Liz Reeves: Last year’s C.U.P.
editor and this year’s vice-president
of the Glee Club is a Sydney girl
with plenty of ability. Liz is also
debating manager for Delta
Gamma.

Molly Schwartz: Always charming and gracious, Molly has been
busy this past week helping with
co-ed week activities and selling
tickets to the various
Molly is taking Science and is
special chairman for Delta Gamma.

Barbara White: A senior in Science and enthusiastic skier. Bobby
comes from Sussex, New Brunswick. She has a lovely face and
figure and loads of talent, always
he depended upon to add a touch of
glamour to the Glee Club shows.

Nita Sederis: Well known to
everyone as one of ‘the hardest
workers around Dal, Nita is very
active in the Glee Club, having
taken an important role in the
“Merchant of Venice” as well as in
last year’s three-act play. She is
also one of the circulation managers for THE GAZETTE, badminton manager in the D.G.A.C. and
an enthusiastic member of Alpha
Gamma Delta fraternity.

 

 

McGosh Unearths

(Continued from page 3)

on his typewriter. .The situation
was desperate. And so, the lassies,
forlorn, and bewildered, wended
their way back to the cold, damp
corridors of The Hovel.

Bubble, Bubble, Toil and Trouble

That night, over a cauldron of
hot broth, the girls devised the
hideous plan of Co-ed Week, adopting every sly trick and manoeuvre
at their command. Next morning,
President Auto was beaten into
submission with a revolver butt
and forced to affix his moniker to
a gigantic proclamation. And that
is how Co-ed Week came about.

And now friends, the shadows
darken and we must regretfully

take our leave of Marmalade °
Hovel, its charming inhabitants
and its storied past. Soon the

week’s festivities will draw to a
close. Soon Cunning Itchybald will
return to her knitting needles;
Mimi Madonna will rewrite the
minutes of Stilta Gamma; Lozenge
Mousie will prepare a financial report for the “Culture Group” and
Izzy Walnut will complete her survey of the wheat germ.

However, the girls. will go about
their tasks with lively gustd and
renewed hope. For Co-ed Week is
an annual affair,

functions.

January 25, 1946

 

Fall Meeting; D.G. A. C.
-- Separate Organization

® RADICAL CHAHNGES and improvements in the Delta Gamma
Constitution were voted on during a
general meeting of the society held
last term at Shirreff Hall. The following amendments were adopted:

(1) Amended the constitution so
that the secretary-treasurer does
not necessarily become -president
the following year, as was previously the rule, and that she automatically become nominated for
president, along with other nominations from the floor,

(2) Amended the constitution
further so that the secretarytreasurer and president shall be
elected in the Student Council Elections rather than just at a general

meeting of Delta Gamma.

(3) Lastly amended the constitution so that Delta Gamma and
D.G.A.C, (Dalhousie Girls’ Athletic
Club) become two entirely separate
distinct organizations with separate
secretary-treasurers in comparison
with one for both as previously, and
so that the vice-president of Delta
Gamma not necessarily is president
of D.G.A.C. as was the case before.

Reasons Given

Following are the reasons given
by the executive for proposing
these amendments:

(1) For the secretary-treasurer
to become president the following
year is quile a binding proposition.
She might be inefficient as secretary-treasurer, and then her becoming president the following year
might prove disastrous for the
society. However, she should be
nominated for president, since by
her position as secretary-treasurer
she has gained a fund of experience
which makes her a good choice for
nominee.

(2) Since Delta Gamma includes
all the girls at Dalhousie, the major
offices, president and secretarytreasurer, should be voted on in the
Student Council Elections, since
practically all the girls vote in that
thus making a more representative
vote.

(3) There had never been any
real advantage to having Delta
Gamma and D.G.A.C. connected in
such a way as pointed out in the
previous paragraph. And there
were several disadvantages:

(a) Very strenuous being secretary-treasurer of both organizations. Also secretary-treasurer of
Delta Gamma may have little or no
interest in D.G.A.C. and vice versa.

(b) Vice-president of Delta Gamma had only one interest—D.G.A.C.
(and rightly so, since it is a full
time job!) and thus was helpful to
Delta Gamma in no other way.

(c) D.G.A.C. is such a large organization that it need not be part

of another, but should be complete
in itself.

Introducing . . .

 

...» Kaye Maclean

@® KAYE arrived in New Glasgow
in 1926 and attended public and
later High Schooi there. She won
a Regional Scholarship in Grade XI
-—a forerunner of later scholastic
attainment at Dal (a mere four
first’s in the Christmas exams).
Kaye didn’t accept this scholarship
but waited till the fall of ’44 to
register at Dal. After being at
Shirreff Hall for one term she took
up residence in the city, and this
year she has returned to the fold.

Elected to Delta Gamma executive as Social Chairman for the
Hall, Kaye has been largely responsible for the outstanding success of this year’s Open Houses.
In fact her influence has been felt
in every phase of Delta Gamma’s
activity since she came to Dal.
Besides her Delta Gamma interests
and Commerce studies she finds
time for active membership in Pi
Beta Phi and seeking Pharos subseribers, Kaye claimed we would
not have anything to write about
if we presented her but we seem to
have done all right. Efficient, conscientious, and the kind of a girl
you really like to know.

Rules for Wimmin

1, Treat all men gentle-like. Lull
their suspicions.

2. Light their cheroots.

3. Offer THEM a chaw — don’t

wait to be asked.

4. Take any books men happen to
be a-carryin’, but no fair sellin’
them cheap.

5. Give ‘em yore seat in the Gym
store but don’t rope ’em down.

6. Buy ‘em cawfee but don’t put
strichnine in it.

—THE UBYSSEY.

sita Gamma’sExecutive Personalities Constitution Amended at 7),,, Diary ve

(Continued from page 3)
for Wednesday. Tell you about it
Wed.
’Bye, now.
January 23—Wednesday
Lys Diary: Just got back from
the show at the Chem theatre,
History Is Made At Night starring
Charles “Meet-Me-At-The-Casbah”
Boyer (Oh, so smooth!). Nice time!
Whether or not history is made at
night remains to be seen (?) but
it’s certainly true that history is to
be STUDIED this nite by me, history and latin and everything I’ve
been neglecting all week so goodnite,
January 24—Thursday
Wet a night! I’m completely
exhausted, but what a wonderful way to get tired! I haven’t
stopped going since dinner. All the
girls at the Hall had been tearing
around looking for this or that to
complete their costumes and everything at the last minute and I’m
no exception. I had had a costume
all ready to wear; at the last
minute I decided it wasn’t strictly
enough “Dogpatch” so I started to
get a costume together. I ended
up wearing my old plaid shirt with
a skating skirt which was indeed
no Dogpatchier than the costume I
originally planned to wear. I
called for my date in grand style,
dragging behind me a small sled,
which I had confiscated from one
of the neighbours for the purpose
of transportation to the dance, and
carrying in my hand the most appropriate corsage I could buy—two
earrots, an onion, and a leaf of
lettuce tastefully arranged and tied
with a white shoelace. I was a bit
nervous about it matching his costume and was very relieved to find
him waiting in a yellow plaid shirt
which couldn’t be better, considering the color of the aforesaid corsage. Once we arrived at the gym,
I proceeded to help my date’ off
with his coat and overshoes. We
then went into the main gym
where everyone was busily engaged in the Li’l Abner’s Trot.
Everybody looked pretty much
alike in plaid shirts, etc. although
there were a few outstanding costumes. It was a marvellous dance,
what with the girls arranging the
programmes. I took my date to
his home on my little sled and then
coasted back to the Hall, five
minutes late (punishment: night
phone duty) but in the best of
spirits. The week has really been
wonderful. It’s not officially over
yet; three one-act plays are being
presented in the gym to-morrow
night; oh, my gosh, I haven’t asked
yet! I think I'll call someone
right now. It’s just about 2 a. m.
but I think he’s got understanding

parents. After all, this is co-ed
week. I’d better rush. So long,

till to-morrow.

 

“May I kiss you? May I please
kiss you? Say are you deaf?”
“No. Are you paralyzed?”

 

    
 

—
=

       
 
 
       
 
   
     
      
      
   
      
        
    

Mighty

‘Aas welcome an,

  

    
      

SSIES

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 
wi

January 25, 1946

GAZETTE FEATURES

 

GAZETTE. . . "202...

@® THE LAST SAD chapter im the
story of Mike’s career as a pin-up
was written in a deserted corner
of the Shirreff Hall kitchen this
week when the mutilated remains
of his picture was found by one of
the inmates. All that remained to
identify it was a glimpse of stubble
beard and an inscription to——,
written with a Colchester County
| accent.
Co-ed week is a happy, if busy
time for Engineers. The women
k are showing the proper interest in
oys from the shack, due of course
to the fact that Engineers are
prime examples of red-blooded
virile manhood. The fact that the
Boilermakers’ Ball is scheduled for
next week, is of course, only a
minor consideration.

Notes on Co-ed Week: Sawyer is
not a woman hater. When one
dates him up he is perfectly happy
to go out with her... Graves
doesn’t seem too downhearted over
his romantic break-up at Bedford.
“Getting asked to the Shirreff Hall
open house by the gorgeous Colquhoun, didn’t cause him any tears;
and just two nights later he was
seen practising one-arm driving
about the city. (By the way the
ear was acting he could use a lot
more practice) . . Note to Bloomer:
When a girl asks for a date for
Friday night, she probably means
Friday night, not Thursday night.

(UQIDUULNNL4LN0UEU0 0400040 004,00080 RUAN USNSNO ASR AOR LSA

~|Campus cLipPincs

Pp ULQUINULENLQLOESNCLQOS40000 00 000000000000 TERA

@® IT SEEMS that with each suc
cessive week a little less happens

that a Gazeteer could write about.

This with deep apologies to the

Meds who are responsible for quite

a few things on this campus—in
cluding their presence here. All

this is preamble, of course—which

has as its only excuse an earnest

desire to fill up this darn page.

Anyhow, it is said that the Meds

held a Ball last Friday at which

many enjoyed themselves and few

were injured by thrown bottles.

Which brings to mind the story of

the Med who wrote home asking

for funds with which he could en
joy the company of his dearest

friends, They were Hi Walker, Joe

Seagram, Johnny Walker, and J.

Dewar. Enough!!

Meanwhile—while the Meds were

“’ hard at work enjoying themselves

—a small and not very select group

at the other extremity of the

ke campus planned the Annual Boiler
| makers, Chippers and Scalers

- (Local No. 7) Ball, Therefore—

be it known that on January 31 the

Engineers entertain Dalhousie —
and it’s on the house, too!

Sadie Hawkins week we pass
over with a not so badly quoted
quotation to the effect that:
“There is a tide in the affairs of

women

Which, taken at the flood, leads—

God knows where.”

And as this is written on only

the second day of this memorable

> week when the affairs of women
are at the flood—well—does even
God know where?

CAPITOL

Friday - Saturday - Monday
Tuesday - Wednesday

“WEEKEND AT
» | THE WALDORF”

with
LANA TURNER
GINGER ROGERS
VAN JOHNSON
WALTER PIDGEON

a,
,

>

~

 

 

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
DANNY KAYE

“WONDER MAN?

  

 

     

@® THIS WEEK has found th
campus in a state of turmoil, and
sho’-nuff them gals who have
waited more years than is tolerable
have had their chance. Open House
proved very successful under the
supervision of Keene Eyes Mac, and
Fix-Anything-Anytime Rocket. The
latter tells us he was looking for a
very dear friend of his that he
hadn’t seen for seven years but receiving the answer that she didn’t
want to see him for another seven
years he settled for the nurse. Advice to all:—‘‘Absence doesn’t make
the heart grow fonder.”

Doug “Time Waits for No Man”
Sawyer is stepping out once more,
but you mustn’t let all these Social
affairs upset your timetable—Doug.

Who would have thunk it? —
that little romance started in Dr.
Prince’s Sociology Class between
Liz and Al would become so ardent
— No wonder Liz thinks Prince
should be crowned “Cupid of the
Campus.”

Whether-it-be — Dawnie or John
Primrose is the $64.00 question,
Shirley doesn’t seem to know, so I
guess we'll have to wait until Sadie
Hawkins week is over. May the
best Lil Abner win.

Another bud has blossomed at
Shirreff Hall, recently, namely
Louise J. Unfortunately he is
strictly non-campus but an “everready” alcover.

Heard about Greg Comeau and
Peter G. keeping score at a recent
High School Hockey Game with a
couple of young ladies in a very
interesting way. “Love those high
scoring games”, says persistent
Gordon.

Newfie Al Mercer seems to have
been rushing Leta Cochrane off her
feet anti-Xmas. This week it is
vice-versa. Wise up Canadians —
Newfoundland fish gives you a lot
of energy.

The female rule is over, penniless
but happy, they look forward with
eagerness for next year.

Be seeing you, Knowsey.

* Ke oie

Pete. Alward’s popularity has
been confirmed by all the dates he
has had this week and he has even
had to turn some of them down.
He’s in favor of more Co-ed weeks.

mE m® *

FLASH! Bob and Frannie are
carrying on quite a romance lately.

One class that Fairlie never
misses is History, because of a
certain boy. Here’s a hint for you
—his name is Al.

x * &

Peter Gordon really had an idea
one day and suggested that he was
available for all social events of the
week and coyly asked if someone
would please date him. We sincerely hope that Peter was the success
he dreamt about being.

x * *

Catty (replacing Knowsey this
week) bids you all a fond farewell
for another year as the girls end
their reign on Dal’s campus and
hand the torch of freedom back to
its rightful (?) owners and also the
paying of the bills.

ORPHEUS
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

“VOICE OF THE WESTLAND”
“BLAZING WESTERN TRAIL”

   

    
 

 
   
   
     

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
“HARD GUY”

and
“MAN FROM MUSIC
MOUNTAIN”

 

Snortin Gourmand Rises From
Chauffeur to Drama Critic

yy
peat

by J. CRICKET McGOSH

“Perhaps I may say there is a questionable gulf between

what is and what should be, although quite probably it might

never have happened.” This striking example of terse, aggres
sive prose and logical thinking, serves as an introduction to
one, Snortin’ Gourmand, who, besides being Gazoot Drama
Critic, Campus Opinion Poller, Literary Chief and Proof-reader,

is a nice young feller to boot.
Starts As Gazoot Chauffeur

Like many a “man of the people”,
Snortin’s rise to fame was in the
best Horatio Alger traditions.
Many moons ago he started his
career as Senior Chauffeur to Editor Wah Lee Mungo—a servile and
degrading task, to say the least.
'Twas nothing short of torture,
driving Mungo about aimlessly
hither and yon, listening to his
philosophical rantings. And he endured it all for a paltry one-and-a
half points towards“his Gazoot ‘D’.

But Snortin’, like Madame Bovary, wanted to improve his lot.
One day, during a Victory Loan
tour, he decided to “impress” his
employer by reciting an original
lyrical ditty—inspired by a summer
saunter through Marlborough
Woods:

“How paltry are the thoughts of
men,

O jolly, little singing sparrow!

While earthly lusts I do not ken,

Your chirping thrills me to the
marrow.”

Mungo was suitably impressed
and promised to give the laddie a
eonstructive outlet for his talents.
Next day, Snortin Gourmand became a full-time janitor of the
Editorial Rooms at an annual salary of three-and-a-quarter points.
But the persistent young codger
had just begun to fight.

Cootie Epidemic Strikes

Shortly after, an epidemic of
oriental cooties swept through
Gazette headquarters playing havoc
with staff members. Snortin (because of his healthy and vigorous
physique) escaped the sad fate of
his brethren, and subsequently assumed the portfolios relinquished

by less-robust and more cootie
susceptible Gazooters.

He was now “Jack of all trades”
second only to McGosh in the admiration and esteem of his fellow
journalists. To the average reader,
though, he was identified simply
as “the fool who lets all the proof
errors slip through” . . . “the dope
who collects all the literary drivel
no one reads anyway”... and “the
queer duck who annoys people with
his silly opinion surveys.” But
just as “My Recollections of Sing

 
 
  
   
    
   
   
 
  
    
  
 
   
 
   

Semi-Formal

 

  
  
  
 
 

Boilermakers’ (all

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL
THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 1946

Ww
JERRY NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA

Tickets cbtainable from Doug Clark, Don Mitchell, Bob Wade,
Dick Currie, Charlie Smith, Ben Solsky.

$3.00 Per Couple

Sing” brought a break for Warden
Lawes — Snortin’s fame followed
publication of his celebrated “Attacks on the Hairy Zipper Gang!”
Yes, friends, this satirical invective
(intended as a simple, unbiased
little offering) has brought thousands to a new appreciation of The
Drama and paved the way for a
Renaissance in The Arts.
To Publish Autobiography

Such is the dramatic story of
Snortin Gourmand. His own autobiography “You Too Can Be
Happy” will soon be published, and
Hollywood will probably purchase
the film rights. Next time you see
a happy, healthy and prosperous
character drifting about the
campus, don’t be afraid to stop for
a chat. He’s really very approachable and friendly. Fame has not
changed him.

Incidentally, MeGosh (whose motives are always altruistic) did not
choose to publicize Gourmand because said gentleman happens to
be Proof Editor of The Gazoot.
Never!! But—since he is, we trust
Mr. Gourmand (in view of the interesting subject matter herein)
will reread the proofs some ninety
or a hundred times so as to afford
at least a vague similarity between
the criginal copy and published
article.

1-Act Play Cast—
(Continued from page 1)

Thora Reid; Mrs. Smith, Margot
Ross; Mrs. Jones, Shirley Weatherby; Mrs. Robinson, Joan Godfrey;
Mrs. Brown, Marion Withrow. Mr.
J. L. Robertson is directing the production.

The Arts & Science Society is
also putting on a Philip Johnson
play, “Heaven on Earth”. The cast
consists of the following: Adrien,
Murray Green; Laura, Rosyln
Schaefer; Jill, Barbara White;
Ernest, Bob Watson; Ellen, Patty
MacKinnon. The direction is in the
hands of Art Hartling.

At 9.45 p.m., following the OneAct Plays, there will be a dance in
the Common Room. Don Warner
and his Collegians will be in attendance to provide the musical accompaniment.

   
 
  

   

 

    
    
  
   
  
  

Dancing 9-1

   
 

Forrest

MED and LAW |
® AT A meeting of the graduating .
class last week, R. J. McCleave,

@ THE GREAT event had come
and gone and once again the Med
school settled down (?) to the uninterrupted grind. But what an
interruption it was—the most successful in years! We are speaking, of course, of last Friday’s
festivities which ran their course at
the Nova Scotian. The banquet
from six to eight was patronized
by a goodly crowd whose enjoyment was radiantly completed by
a short address by President Kerr,
an amusing and informative introduction by Dean Grant and a talk
by Dr, Dawson, Prof. of History at
Acadia University. The latter kept
the banqueteers in laughter from
beginning to end with his “Contribution to Science” — a witty and
clever sequence of metaphorical
descriptions and comparisons of the
various types of human beings to
be found in civilization. Birds
formed the media of his metaphors
and the latter in turn formed the
logic of his subject.

_ By nine o’clock the ballroom was
filling—and when the band took the
stand, the dancers coveréd the floor

(not, naturally, to be taken liter-:

ally). In all seriousness, to the
Medical Society, its executives, and
to the perpetrators of Friday
night’s activities; and to the writers of last week’s Gazette Medical
Supplement, go the hearty congratulations of the entire Med school
and all others who benefitted from
their efforts. Our earnest thanks to
the chaperones—Dr. and Mrs. Gordon Young and Dr. and Mrs, Arthur
L. Murphy.

@ UNDER the cheery surroundings of the recently enlarged
‘Rogues Gallery’ the Dents have at
last gotten down to work again.
Once more the drills —horrors to
the layman, but music to the Dental ears—are busily humming; once
more the books are beginning to
make their appearance, although in
a timid way.

The Dental Lab these days is
quite a merry place. To those who
are unaware of the tradition of this
institution, it is feared where the
Dents gather to do their work, it is
here where campus affairs, politics,
ete. are discussed. It is here where
the events of the past week, scandals, rumors, in short anything
shady at all are thoroughly digested. Naturally the recent Med Ball
is the subject of the day. We hear
that even the embyronic Dents put
in their appearance. The major
was as usual surrounded by his
cohorts, changed his mind at the
last minute and showed up. Seki
added to the fame of the Dents by
appearing prominently in one of
the local newsheets. But let us not
forget the third year Dents, The
Duke appeared as usual, but this
time minus his pipe and diamond
socks. It goes without saying that
the Victoria Road twins, inseparable as ever, were there in all their
glory. Even Hashie recovered from
flUu in time. But old Faithful
Gordie stayed home, his thoughts
longingly back in St. John. Grand
CASINO

An Odeon Theatre
a

THIS LOVE
OF OURS
STNG Ee oe
MERLE OBERON © |
CLAUDE RAINS _
ELD OVER |

 

Flashes

B.A., and T. G, Feeney, were elected life officers, as president and
secretary, respectively.
from New Brunswick, which proves
that the Island complex of the
class can be overcome. /

Wednesday’s Moot Court proved
to have the most fireworks of the
season, with the Bench taking off

its gloves and unfastening their

belts to squash those who came

below their standard of conduct,
with fines of cokes and chocolate

bars. Even Senior Counsel Hart

came within the wrath, with ue

Bench refusing to hear his case

until he had properly delivered an

apology to McCleave for unethical
conduct towards the latter at the
Fall sittings.

Shirreff Hall Delegates

Sheriff Abe Sheffman, determined — |

to get costs at all events, provok
ed the rage of the Bench when he |

unnecessarily hauled forth three
Shirreff Hall beauties on a gross
charge of trespass, and while Burnett galloped up in all directions
to defend the trio, the Bench in its
infinite wisdom and with a soft
feeling for feminity refused to allow the charge. Hawkins, of the
firm of Martin and Hawkins, also
sought to defend the girls, which
was considered dangerous by the
Court.
This afternoon, the Court again
goes to session and concludes next
Friday when Don Black and Burnett engage in orations. Since it
is bruited about that the Bench of
graduating students is determined
to make this case the veriest of
examples as to true conduct in
court, for future courts to be
guided by, it promises to be the
most interesting case yet. Feeney,
Butler and McCleave sitting.
Anyone is free to attend and take
the consequences, |

 

pa ‘Zappie’, unable to turn his mind
from the forthcoming musical extravaganza, remained at home.
Until next week, so long!

Boilermakers Ball Is
Highlight Of The Year,

Tuxedos, Corsages Out a

®@ ON THURSDAY, January 3ist,

the biggest event of the year will
take place at the Nova Scotian
Hotel, under the direction of the
Engineering Society. The Boilermakers Ball will feature Jerry
Naugler’s full orchestra for your
dancing enjoyment, on the best
dance floor in Halifax. Depending
‘on sale of tickets, dancing may continue until 2 a.m. The Engineers,
this year, have decided to make the
Ball semi-formal, since the procurement of tuxedos has become
extremely difficult, and adds an
unnecessary expense to the ex
serviceman’s budget. By request of —

a large number of students, the
committee has again decided to an
nounce that corsages will be out,

since the dance is semi-formal.

OXFORD ,
Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday

 

 
 

    

Margaret O’Brien :

Jimmie Durante, Jose Iturbi
‘June Allyson

   
   
   
   
  
   
  

te

 
   

  

= - ——

 

Both are

 
  
     
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
    
   
   
    
  
 
  
  
    
    
  
 
   
 
   
   
   
     
   
    
   
   
  
 
    
   
 
    
       
  
    
   
  
 
   
     
  
  
     
  
     
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
   
       
  
   
 
  

basi FENG
a

he

a oo P
ee ee |

#' "
Ae td Fiat, Fie
ee eS

ar pe
avers

“ee

 

   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  

 

  
  
  
  

;
:
:
;
    
  

oe
Lie

es 1,

\ see

eee ys 2

——

a

ys : ea ¥

oe

' - a a

, xis Y
Pi o

ie a

‘

i
4
Pb

ae APS eeS

theme) a *

- —

eae
~,

a ee
¥ + == a ts ;
a. Dl eee
{

N

ve
ie
=
i

.
i

\
aay,

  
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
 

oa

 

Tigers Turn Back N, S. Tech 4-3
In Intercollegiate Hockey Opener

 

 

 

Tigers Fail To Keep
Pace With South End
Through 49-32 Tilt

@ FAILURE to keep up with the
pace in the final half of a fast
game was the cause of a disastrous
defeat for the Cubs by the South
End Athletic Club, 49—32.

From the opening whistle Dal
pressed the play, Adam Smith scoring on a difficult shot. South End
then took a small lead which was
swiftly overcome as the Tigers
scored six quick baskets, Morrow
and Robinson scoring twice on
breakaways and Smith hooping
three baskets to end the half 22—
17 in Dal’s favor.

After a rather lengthy pep talk
the Cubs came out to renew the
battle but the superior height and
experience of the Athletics was too
much for the youthful Tiger basketeers. Led by Hirchfield and Pottie,
the South End quintet finished the
game running away from the Cubs
with a 49-32 score.

Hirshfield was best man for
South End with 13 points and playing well defensively, Blakeney
starred for Dal limiting the highscoring “Garnie’ Wooden to only
six points. >

Lineups: Mitchell 2, Smith 10, F.
Rogers, Creighton 1, Robinson 8,
Morrow 5, D. Rogers, Blakeney 6.

 

Luckless Tigers Drop
Cage Bouts To Yanks,

Flyers Over Weekend

@® FAILURE TO show enough
power and push was the cause of
the Tiger’s defeat at the hands of
the airmen on Friday night. The
Tigers started fast pressing the
airmen and capturing a small lead.
However, the fighting air force led
by diminutive “Joey” Waxman, the
best player on the floor, swiftly
overcame the lead and ended the
half 18-14,

They proceeded to force the play
in the second frame and won by a
14-point margin 42-28. McLeod of
the Air Force was high scorer of
the game with 15 points, while
Farquhar had 10 markers to lead
the Dal attack. .

Lineup: Dunlop 3, Farquhar 10,
Mathews 2, A. Hart 2, E. Rogers 6,
Knight, Cooley 6.

Tigers 29—A.A.A.F. 59

Meeting one of the best teams
ever tc show its wares in Halifax,
the Tigers lost 59-29 after a grim
battle that saw. them put up the
best fight of any team to play the
Yanks. Dal pressed the play from
the outset and the first quarter saw
them ahead 14-10, but this lead
was cut short as such stellar players as Delano Fox and Denter made
beautiful shots not often seen in
these parts. Dal seemed to fall
apart in the last frame as the fast
airmen capitalized on many chances
and used a zone defence to take the

game quite handily.
~ Dunlop High Man
Fox was high man for the Ameri
cans with 22 points while his teammate Dentzer had 18 points. Dunlop, who played a whale of a game
garnered 14 points to lead the Dal
Be __housie offensive,

Above (left to right) are Dick Currie, Dave Churchill-Smith and
Edwin Crowell, three of the Tigers Coach Pete Mill is counting on to
pace the team to the Maritime intercollegiate hockey crown this season.
In the 4—3 defeat administered to N. S. Tech last night Currie chalked
up three goals, while Churchill-Smith drove home the fourth and winning
tally besides setting up two of Currie’s scores. Crowell-was forced to
view the game from the sidelines, having sustained an ankle injury the

day before.

 

Cubs Beat Y.M.H.A. 36-21;

Tigers Sunk 33-32 by Stad

Outcome Decided in Last Seconds

DALHOUSIE lost a heartbreaker on Monday night, when

the Tigers, just failed to ooze through a win in the dying
seconds of the game, losing to Stad. 33-32. The game was close
throughout with both teams having an equal margin in the

play.

The Tigers started fast, scoring 5 quick baskets while the
sailors were only able to hoop 2 shots. However, the small lead
did not last long, as the Stad quintet fought and gradually
found the basket to lead the half 20-16.

Dal Defence Tight

Dal’s defence was tight in the
final period and with the onehanded shooting of Farquhar the
lead was brought down. The frame
was close throughout, the lead
changing many times. With one
minute to go, Stad led 31-30. Then
Dunlop swished a foul shot to tie
the game and with 18 seconds to
go Alex Hart put Dal in the lead
with another foul shot. Dal got
control of the ball and with two
seconds left Farquhar took the ball
out. Being over-anxious he hit the
back board on the pass-in the ball
thus going to the sailors. On the
pass-in Stong took a long set-shot
that found the hoop thus winning
the game for the sailors 33-32.

Farquhar and Cooley were the
standouts for Dal, while Davey and
Stong led Stad with 18 and 10
points respectively. A

Lineup: Dunlop. 2, Farquhar 13,
G. Hart, Cooley 10, Giffen 2, A.
Hart 8, Knight 2.

Adam Smith Stars

Led by tricky Adam Smith, the
Dal Cubs easily forced a 36-21 victory over the Y.M.H.A. quintet on
Monday night. The game was slow
but the Intermediates had too much
on the ball for the Hebrew boys,
who allowed Dal to break up the
floor too many times without being
checked. The Cubs led 20-7 at half
time and outscored their opponents
16-13 in the final canto to win the
game. While Adam Smith was the
best player on the floor, scoring 12
of his teams points, Sammy Pallnick, a Dalhousie student, was high
scorer for Y.M.H.A. with 6 markers. The game was rough, 30 fouls
being called by referee Bob Mitchell, 16 to Dal and 14 to Y.M.H.A.

Lineup: Smith 12, J. Morrow 2,
Creighton 5, Morton 8, Mitchell,
Robinson, F. Rogers 8, Algee, D.
Rogers, Blakeney 6.

a oe SS
The Great Tragedy—
(Continued from page 1)
around the HS jet. And yet there
is an aura of hope around the
place; the shadow of an undoubled
bid is found in the halls, reminding
us that there may come a day when

bridge and Dalhousie will live

Lineup: Dunlop 14, G. Hart 1,
Farquhar 4, Cooley 2, E. Rogers 6.
Giffen 4, Knights". Hart, Mat
zs ~.

 

 
  

 

 

Second Team Trounces
Grads In Girls’ City
League Hoop Fixture

@®DALHOUSIE GIRLS second team
came out on the winning side of a
24-6 score in one of the regular city
league games against the Grads
last Wednesday night. Before the
game was finished a large crowd
had collected to see the girls play
circles around their opponents.
The Grads were good individual
players, but needed practise.

From the moment play opened
Dal had advantage. Time after
time the Sherman-Currie combination carried the ball into the grad
zone, past the guards, to score. At
the end of the first quarter Dal
led 10-0, increasing this total by six
points before the end of the half.

Currie Outstanding

Shortly after the beginning of
the second half L. Wheeler sank
a beautiful long shot for the Grads.
When the game ended the Grads
had two more baskets to their
credit while Dal had climbed to
twenty-four points.

Sheila Currie was the outstanding player on the Dal team. She
had the enviable record of sinking
all four of the penalty shots she
handled during the game. Louise
Jodrey did a nice job of guarding
and broke up a number of Grad
plays.

Lineup: S. Currie, 10; V. Phillips, 6; J. Sherman, 8; V. Leonard,
L. A. Hayes, T. Aslin, F. Doane,

Stage Rally. in Final
Minutes of 3rd Frame
To Score 2 Markers

@® DAL TIGERS copped a wellearned 4—83 victory from Nova
Scotia Tech at the Halifax Arena
last night. The Pete Mill--coached
squad showed their mettle by coming from behind to score two goals
in two minutes with less than five
minutes remaining in the game.

The big gun for the Tiger hockey
machine was Dick Currie, who performed the hat-trick, ably assisted
by Dave Churchill-Smith, who set
up two of Currie’s goals and scored
the winner.

Although the Currie - ChurchillSmith-Lightfoot line scored all the
goals, the second line of LeblancBlakeney - Knickle also played
heads-up hockey, keeping Tech
hemmed. in most of the time they
were on the ice. 
The Dal defensive display was

_the big surprise of the night. Wade

and Clarke gave excellent suport
to goalie Harvey McKeough, another Dal star of the night.

Tech scored all three of its goals
when the Tigers were short-handed,
but were no match for their opponents at full strength. For the Engineers Vaughn and Dugnel turned
in the best performance.

Tech had the edge in goals in the
middle canto, due to two penalties
to Wade, costly ones for the Tigers.
Using four forwards, the latter
struck back and battled on to victory in the final frame, scoring
twice while blanking the opposition.

Pete Mill’s training showed to
excellent effect, as the Dal team
was stronger defensively than it
had been for some time.

Although Dal rooters were conspicuous by their absence, several
members of the faculty appeared
on the scene to hold the gap.

Dalhousie: McKeough, goals;
Wade, Clarke, defense; Currie,
Lightfoot, Churchill-Smith, Blaakeney, Leblanc, Knickle, Lee, forwards.

 

Boxing Team Looking
For Middies, Heavies

@® WITH MUCH interest being
shown, this promises to be a banner
year for Dalhousie as far as the
ring is concerned. So far few practices have been held but with an
invitation meet coming up in March
the boys are really starting to go
to it. Although there is good
representation in some classes, Flyweights, Bantams, Lightweights,
Middles and Heavies are definitely
lacking. With the wealth of material walking around the campus,
it would be a great help if they
would show their wares and help
Dal win its second straight Intercollegiate championship. Most
promising of the present boxers
are Mike Waterfield, Shillingford
(a big heavy), Kevin Miller, Bobbie
Mumford and Bryce Burgess, and
they’re just itching for competition.
So lets see everybody out to the
practices every THURSDAY night,
and the P.T. periods at 12.00 on
Tuesdays, Thursday and SATURDAYS, all activities being in the

 

EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT

fr

(Wisk

7.45

A YOUNG PEOPLES’ RALLY
Especially Designed for YOUth!

A

The SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND, Morris & South Park
IT’S INTERDENOMINATIONAL !

 

~~ “ = a ee

 

on the Sidelines

by ALEC FARQUHAR

@ ANOTHER WEEK has passed and still the Senior basketball team has failed to come back with a win. Last Monday’s
game with Stadacona was likely the closest, most thrilling
affair of the season to date. With two seconds remaining, the
Tigers held a slim one-point margin over the sailors and then
fate stepped in as a Stadacona player’s shot cut the twines at
the very blowing of the final whistle. Without a doubt the
squad is improving and from now on should turn those close
defeats into victory.

| Notes on the Yankees

The visiting American Air Force team showed the many
fans just how basketball should be played. Their co-ordination
was nothing short of a spectacle and théir shooting uncanny.
It might be noted with interest that Dave Denter, the Yank’s
sharp-shooting left forward, has had several years’ professional experience, while the majority of the others have performed in semi-professional ranks.

From talking to genial Bill McCarthy, the Yankee coach,
we learned with interest that lanky Delano Fox, the outstanding player on the quintet, is slated not only for professional
basketball circles but also has a spot on the Cincinnatti Reds’
baseball team waiting for him after his discharge.

The same genial McCarthy also paid a tribute to our Tigers
in announcing that Dalhousie afforded his boys the stiffest
competition met in Halifax.

Stad Pool Available

Kingsley Churchill, swimming manager, has announced
that the swimming team have the use of the huge Stadacona
pool for practices on Mondays and Thursdays from 5 to 6.
Turnouts for swimming could be a lot bigger and King is looking for more material. Swimming aspirants would be wise to
take advantage of the expert coaching that is available.

Mr. Stein is the new coach and he certainly knows his
business, having been captain of the McGill team several years
ago and holder of the Dominion Intercollegiate 220 and 440
yards free-style record.

 

O’Hearn Successful—
Continued from page 1
great difficulty in carrying out the
orders of the court. But the quality
of mercy came to the fore and their
Lordships forgave the three who
had braved the terrors of the unknown. Burnett, a budding Casanova, felt a divine urge to defend
the ladies, but his urge was roughly
squelched by the court who ordered him to sit down and hold his

peace.

All junior counsel, if present,
were proper in their speeches of
congratulation to the Court; most
refreshingly, none of them spoke in
Latin.

Schedules Announced—
(Continued from page 1)
(second team) vs. Engineers.

Resolution: “Resolved that maidens, like moths, are ever caught
by the glare.”

Topics may not, in all instances,
be satisfactory to the teams debating, consequently they are subject
to change.

Plans for intercollegiate debating
were also discussed. It was decided
that Mark Yeoman and Don McEachern would go to St. Dunstan's,
Jim Saunders and Wendell Meldrum to U.N.B., while Lloyd Soper
and Al Blakeney would meet Pine
Hill at Dalhousie.

 

 

 

 
