    
  
     
 
 

    
       

 
    

 

 

 

 

HALIFAX, N. &.,

DECEMBER 1, 1944

Students’ Council Authorizes The Building
Of Recreation Room in Lower Gymnasium

%

STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

%

Construction iM Start During Vacation

Exhibition
Basketball

Dal Tigers
vs. Debert

Tonight
in Gym

* a

Busy Clu Held

 

  
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  

The Dalhousie Student Council has authorized a provision| Further business on the agenda
for a common room in the gymnasium. What many of us have| of the Council meeting included the
been hoping for ever since we entered Dal is definitely going | following:
to become a reality over the Xmas vacation. Plans for said (1)
common room were layed before the Council Sunday afternoon | sentative
by Art Hartling, President of the Glee Club. The room-is to| Conference to
be the old band room in the Gym, which will change its tenants | holidays was
from old broken instrsuments to ??? Dalhousie students. cided against, owing to financial

At present the room is much hoe tre ae Ct reasons and the small amount of
small and so the partition will have PRESIDENT PRESIDES benefit which we at present derive
to be moved back to the boys’ lock- from the C.U.P.
ers. The contractor has already (2) A constitution is to be drawn
been approached on the subject, but up by the Dalhousie Round Table
we wonder why he smiled when as- group and to be voted on at the next
sured that some of the students Student Forum.
would help him. A committee, made (SU NGHices aking

   
  
  
  
    
  
 
    
  
   
    
  
  
    

   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
    
     

 
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
    
    
  
   

_ Apparently Art’s father reads the
“March of Grime quite avidly. He
saw that his son was going out with

a “svelte smoothie” so he looked up
ey Mevelta” in the dictionary and after
+ he found out what it meant he in-.
sisted on meeting her, after which
ot he was very much impressed and
‘ went down town and bought a new
ae dictionary.

_*

The idea of sending a repreto the C.U.P. National
be held over the
discussed, but de
 

An intimate glimpse of pre-examination industry caught in the camera’s
eye by our Gazette photographer, serves as a reminder of the fatal day
but ‘one week hence.

os

Our wistful reporter, seeking solace for his C—in English 2,
wandered into the gymnasium, into Roy’s, into the men’s common room and even into the drafting room but not a sympathetic face could he find. Where were they? his companions
of the Freshman show and the Acadia trip. He stood deserted
on the windswept campus; then an ectoplasmic presence—per
a:

i a

  
  
 

A bachelor is a man who has been
very successful in his love affairs.

*. * for applica
   

*

 
 
   

oA

 
  
 
 
   
      
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
    
    
 
 
 
  

. = i
\ *
aay Fg

qe
Ge far
4
es
Sas.

a
|

seem to be hitting it off pretty well,

the Hall, Skinner has had his eye
on a Nancy at the Hall and Ruth is
planning to write a book of bedtime

while Engineer.

Short notes on current flings ...
Nancy Wilson and Bobby MacDonald

Don and Zelda are wandering around
in a daze about each other, Wilmot
and Zoology led to Gorham and the
Com Dance, Ken has been helping
Irene with her Pharmacy exams during the last seven or eight nights at

stories with the help of her erst
* * *

“Call Me Stu” has given up coming to Halifax for his weekends

- lately. Rumour has it, however, that
he will soon be resuming his Hali
fax operations with one of the Marmalade Hovelites.
*%

Better watch out for Meek Man
girls, he’s the new flamboyant Lothario of the campus and has got
SheikUpidee beat in every way. For
confirmation ask his date for the
Com. Dance last week. She’ll give

*

you all the quotable quotes such as,

“I hope you won’t think I’m a wolf
if I ask your indulgence and permission to kiss you goodnight”. Boy

_ oh boy, what an irrestible line!

+ s. %
Take a look at the masthead of the

  
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
    
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
     
  
 

     
  
   
  
  

haps Rufus Rayne—whispered in his ear, “The LagEaEy"
Hastily grabbing an errant photo- @————---—-_—

U.A.T.C. Will Attempt
To Re-Arrange PostXmas Parade Hours

grapher, the reporter, with the aid
of a map unearthed from Lester’s
Archives, and the prize-winning Geological survey of Studley striaeschistosity (the product of one Elder
Bank) passed beneath the forbidden
portals. “It was as if a chapter in
my Jife had closed and a new one
had begun,” he said, as he groped
his way up the misty stairs.

Enters Unknown

After a two-minute tussle with the
glass doors, that were locked, he entered the Unknown. Words failed
to do justice to the scene before him,
but the faithful photographer, even
in the throes of collapse, instinctively recorded the scene for posterity.
This priceless record is reproduced
above.

Our reporter, since friendship was
not offered, crept up to the Sinatralike (half-starved) youth, seen centre above and demanded an explanation. Peering balefully over eighteen
volumes of the Newfoundland Codderies Survey Statutes (Revised
edition 1927) the individual snarled.
“De name is Pickh (the “th” is silent
as in Jones). Da exams is less’n
two wecks off. So F-O.H.P.!!”

The chastened reporter seeking
civil replies to servile questions approached Phigg Leaves, also seen

 

 
 

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

 

This week, in an interview with
Squadron Leader Theakston, of the
U.A.T.C., the Gazette learned that
despite various difficulties, the U.A.
T.C. is doing all that is possible to
co-ordinate its training hours to
those of the other services. Several
importunities have arisen to deter
such co-ordination, among these the
night school classes which are held
Thursday night in the draftingroom, where U.A.T.C. classes would
be held. Also the fact that all instructors from Eastern Air Command are on a voluntary basis, and
if these instructors do not agree to
a change in hours, no change is possible.

Squadron Leader Theakston, however, is working on the new plan,
and hopes that by the first of next
term he will either be able to coordinate the hours of his unit to
those of the other services or issue a
statement explaining why this is impossible.

 

it would take to float the Science

up of Art Hartling, Carl Dexter and

Harry Zappier was appointed to
make financial arrangements with
the university.

A common “common room” will
certainly answer to the need of a
place for girls and boys to get together, and will provide a much
more homey atmosphere than the
Gym Store. Roy will be relieved of
his “beloved” juke-box, and students
will have dancing as well as listening
enjoyment for their nickels, We
hope to have a piano where Billy
and his gang will grow bigger and
better than eyer before.

Plans for decorations are still
quite indefinite, but suggestions are
being considered for semi-cabaret
style with tables and chairs around
the room, a small bandstand and
coke bar. It’ll be the ideal place to
drop in on Saturday night after an
early movie and we’re sure that all
students will take advantage of the
opportunity.

In case any of the boys are worrying about their privacy in the
locker room being infringed upon
there is a separate entrance on the
south side of the building.

 

Dal Debaters Drop
Close Decision To

 

Art Titus, (above), President of the
Students’ Council, who presided at
the closing term session of the Council in the Murray Homestead last
Sunday.

Barbara Campbell Is
President of Class ’46

On Tuesday, Nov. 28th, the Clats
of ’46 held a meeting in Room 8,
Arts Building, The Vice-President,
Barbara Campbell, was in the chair.
Since the office. of President was vacant, it was moved that Barb. Campbell take on that office. Jimmie
Saunders was unanimously elected
vice-president,

Plans for the Junior Prom were

 

 

tions for editor of the Year Book
are to go Up.

(4) The War Services Committee is to look after I.S.S. activities
on the campus.

(5) Book Store Committee reported that owing to wartime conditions the book store business was
sold over to Roy Atwood by the
trustees. Magazines were  purchased from the assets.

(6) Favorable balance of $43.40
from the gate receipts plus $50.00
from the Tech-vs.-St. F. X. football
game.

(7) Gym Committee
avoid friction in present
schedule.

(8) Date of Jan.
Engineers for the
Ball.

(9)

to try to
Gym

26 granted to
Boilermakers’

Telephone at Forrest Build
ing to be installed at University
expense,
(10) Dalhousie Spirit Club con
gratulated by Alumnae Club.

(11) The N.F.C.U.S. which has
been non-functional since 1940 is
now being revived. Dalhousie was

an active member before the war
and much interest is being shown

in its revival. The Student Council
has voted funds for two representatives to attend the Regional Conference at the University of West
Gazoot and seé if you can guess

‘ which member of the staff was seen

a short time ago at Norman’s at five

‘in the morning kissing all the girls

a cheery good morning. And which

staff writer of the Gazoot has had

the mixed pleasure of having a beau
.  tiful C.W.A.C. from Newfoundland,

3 fall in love with him but could not

take advantage of the situation becase of previous commitments.

ie ce a

KNOWSEY feels sorry for the un
justified attack on Scoffman made in

_ the last issue by MeLeek. We can’t

understand why some people continue

to accuse Scoffman of perpetrating

 
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 

   
   
    
       
     
   
    
   

ern Ontario in London. Ted King

will be one of our delegates while a~
second will be appointed by the

executive of the Council.

Mount Allison

In the first intercollegiate debate
of the year, Mt. A. girls’ team defeated Dalhousie in a close two-toone decision.

Dalhousie supported the affirmative of the resolution “that in the
interests of economic and political
stability, Canada should join the
Pan-American Union,” Mt. A. arguing the negative side of the resolution. The speakers for Dal were
Pat Ryan, captain, and Elizabeth
Reeves. Mt. A. was represented by
Arlene Acton, captain, and Ruth
Milton.

discussed and Al Myrden was nominated head of the committee in
charge. He will choose his own
committee.

DIP

above. “Would you mind, he began.
“No,” she said, whipping out an
oversized kleenex and a pencil, “I’m
asking the questions for Dipo this
week,

How many permits do you think

CAMPSI DELEGATES WRIGHT,
LODER, ARCHIBALD RETURN

“Delegates at the eighth national CAMSI Conference, held
by L’Universite de Montreal, were Chuck Wright (second year),
Pete Loder and Dave Archibald (third year). The conference
began Friday morning, November 10, and ended Sunday after
building ?”

The subdued reporter hurried on
to a group of plaid clad, weirdbearded striplings—obviously engineers. To his astonishment, he was

Continued on page two

  
 

:

 

 

 

DALHOUSIE INSTITUTE OF
PUBLIC OPINION

       
        
        

 

Are you in favor of the movement by Dalhousie girls, reported
in last week’s Gazette, to ban Dalhousie boys from affairs

held by the girls: Sadies Hawkins, etc.?
The boys of Dalhousie have scored another social victory and 85% of
the girls questioned favored the males of the campus to all others. The

  

  
    
  
  
   

2:

ve, A
¢

the crime of being KNOWSEY, beéause believe it or not, Ripley, Scoff- |
Even McGosh doesn’t
know who KNOWSEY is and Ran
man is not.

gO0R, Rufus won’t tell.

noon, November 12.
Among the topics discussed were:

 
 
   
 
 
  

Students.

 

National Health Plan, previously
presented to all Canadian Medical

of all delegates that Dalhousie had
made no mistake in affiliating with
nation-wide organization representing the interests of students and in
The chairman of the debate was
R. J. MeCleave, who introduced the
speakers and judges, His Worship
Mayor J. E. Lloyd, Rev. J. A. MacKeigan and Judge Elliott Hudson.

greatest objection to “the pimple parade” was voiced by the seniors who
I

screamed “they’re too young.”

One of the girls suggested that we light a

fire under a freshman to see if he’d move.
So the girls of Dalhousie have put their faith for future dates in the
hands of the men of tomorrow, but from the result of this poll we can ex
pect to see 15% of the men at Sadie Hawkins wearing navy blue.
rf x %
Do you approve of a longer College year?

This question was received by the students from a strictly mercenary
angle and 70% wanted as short a college year as possible, so they could
engage in the terrific business of being gainfully employed. 25% of the
students thought a longer college year would be better because of the
extra time which could be devoted to extra-curricular activities.

A longer first term was approved by many, but some of the students
(probably engineers) thought if the college year was longer they might
have more work to do, so they were definitely against any such move - The
remaining 5% were undecided.

      
     
    

   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
    
  
 
    

ternes throughout the Dominion.”’

Following a business meeting on
Saturday afternoon a banquet was
held at the Windsor Hotel. Dr. J.
C. Meakins, Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine, McGill University, was the
guest speaker. Dr. Meakins, who
has but recently retired from the
office of Deputy Director General of
Medical Services, R.C. A.MC., gave
an interesting talk ‘on post-war rehabilitation.”

ee oe

Two of the Law boys went to a
‘show last Saturday night and decided to come out of their shell with
H ce -a bang when they discovered that
uy \ are amourous, ahem... girls were
> iting behind them and apparently
very anxious to make their acquaintance. Anyway, to make a long
a eho short, | the sequel of it all was
ie} . ss ae? and ‘they all
_ lived happily ever | afterwards,

The judges all expressed their
difficulty in reaching the decision,
which was in favor of the Mt. A.
team. Judge Hudson complimented
Dal’s manager, Terry Monaghan,
for the capable way in which she
handled all arrangements for the
debate. In their comments the
judges remarked that the standard
was on a much higher scale than
many previous college debates. They

Continued on page two

CAMSI J deli
Canadian Interne Board,
Reports of local committees.
Reports on projects undertaken by
each university.
_ Revision of the Constitution.

       
        
        
       
    
 
 
  

 

All nine medical schools in Canada
were represented. Business  sessions were smoothly conducted and
all| the purpose of the conference was
accomplished. It was the impression

web} af rs Pet,
~
.

ti be ,
c ceeeetenetinetmnentn eee Saeed teeth tema ane ne

ae eee ee
 

 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

JOHN HIBBITTS

Photography
car ERROL MacDONALD

jist af JIM iA ai a
> Mt . ; — _——— .
woah 7 in . ;
Leys: rd ' St ee : $ :

MAN ALEX F
MOT — BLAIR D

Cartoons
ewe R. TUCK
Reportorial
ART SAFFRON LIZ REEVES
JACK SIDEL

AL LOMAS

JACK NICHOLSON
CREWE

FRED MARTIN (2-2593)

AN OTHER STEP FORWARD

‘ Ri utdanne and long-awaited news is the announcement that
St dents’ Council is authorizing the immediate construction of
1 student “common room” in the lower gymnasium.
Such a scheme (backed by both University and Council
funds) fills a long-standing need on the Dalhousie campus.
ah lans, which call for modern furnishings, a soft-drink bar and
ecreational facilities will provide, at long last, a pleasant, inrmal meeting place for male and female students of all
mu faculties, 9 |v.
Mi _ Congratulations to Art Hartling and Harry Zappler, in stigators of the scheme, and to the Students’ Council whose enBe otiant gives concrete assurance of its success. This year’s
= Gouna imbued with initiative and enthusiasm, has gone “all
uo ‘promote and develop college spirit at Dal. The proposed
“Student Common Room marks a further step in that direction.
Wi Uy: ia NY tae

7 o
i ne pie

 

eke : 1 SO LONG FOR AWHILE
idl As the impending doom of examinations casts its shadow

sa aeons their dingy basement dug-out, apprehensive Gazetteers
Ms, tl _ Yeluctantly abandon their typewriters and scurry to the stacks
i, for a few days of intensive cramming.

We sincerely hope our journalistic efforts thus far have
"made a favourable impression on students as a whole. Assumi hi ing we weather the impending storms, we'll be back next term
ae with a series of brighter and better Gazettes (11 to be exact)

mt, _ based on the progressive enterprise of our editorial staff. We
have worked hard and consistently to improve every department
a of The Gazette this year. Realizing there is still great room
Fay’ for improvement, we intend to redouble our efforts with a view
hb _ to the ultimate realization of our editorial aims and policies.

ea iit At the moment, however, our interests and (we assume)

pel? pian interests of every Dalhousian, are directed to the contingencies of examination week. However, if we will all put our
' university motto to practical use, it is reasonable to suppose
_ that examination casualties will be slight and that the greater
part of our student body will return intact after the Christmas

  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
     

ay ei aes “labora” has been adhered to throughout the entire

ite m, there is little cause for fear; if it has not, then, fellow

i students, we must “ora” (and fervently, at that) _.. for the
: ay of Judgment is at hand, In those two simple words “ora”

ait peace on a traditional note of greeting, The Gazette exA ittenda to students, faculty and alumni, its sincerest wishes for a
_ very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

—_ See you in ’45.

gh Ti CALM BEFORE
- Gontinueed from page one
eceived with gentle welcoming
miles and a firm clasp of the hand.
or in a proffered chair, still

 

 

 

deep-seated, though ephemeral value
of English la, as taught by that
svelte and learned Dr. Martin, as a
primary requisite for the true cultural background, so necessary in
our profession, will in future cease
to inhabit the crude confines and
cruder art of the draughting rdom
“ff and instead spend our hours profitty my fellows in informing you |ably among the great masters of our
‘ that the day of the uncouth Engin- | English tongue.”
y Ree has passed. At a recent meet-| Dazedly muttering “I guess us
fia Pie of the Benevolent Engineers’ | Artsmen don’t need no English,” the
_ Chowder and Marching Club a mo-|reporter wended his way back to the
_ tion was duly discussed and ap-|Gazette office and to the numbing
te ‘proved, stating that Engineers, hav-|realization that exams are indeed
< u ite become ae cognizant of the |only twelve days away.

LOOK NEWER

LAST LONGER
pe When they go to Cousins
a REGULARLY

|. ‘There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
| §  .them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish
| | lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
—-send what you have to Cousins often.

» fe

    
  
   
   
   
   
    
  

  

ae ‘
n %
Ig ‘ h cle

a i"

a 4 a, an
* oa r pete : a ee i
ot * a 3 al sale My aie ee cere 4 me Odeon, MAA aataar des a, ALL ly he
I = 5 Re eee Dee on an

 
 

Musings By Pindar Il

We students of philosophies For... dictates far too fast
Demand a shorthand course For students’ pens to race
Prerequisite; or else our pleas|The stuff we miss would make
Do typed-out notes endorse. you gasp,

And hours go to waste.

FALL NIGHT

Nothing to hear

But the ghostly sound
Of dead leaves talking
to one another;

Fragile wraiths that /
have fluttered down
Like the ghostly tears
of a ghostly lover.

 

Nothing to hear and nothing
to see
Save the autumn wind and the
tattered leaf,
And a frosty moon hung over
a tree
With a halo of frosty stars
For a wreath.

K. E. B.

Nothing to see

But a ghostly town

Where pallid moonbeams
slant and glimmer,

And spectral shadows stalk
the ground

With a wind that makes the
dry grass quiver.

 

DAL DEBATERS DROP— Atwood New Manager

Continueed from page one

lauded the debaters on the quality Of Book Store

and quantity of the material gather
ab, ; Owing to the exigencies of war,
ed on such a difficult subject.

the Trustees of the Dal Book Store

Union Impossible have found it necessary to turn the

Mt. A. supported the negative and | operation of the store over the Roy

contended that, there being no poli-| Atwood. The latter has assumed
tical similarity. between Canada and complete responsibility.

the South Americas, such a union | The board still exists, however,

would not be possible and that|for the management of store assets,

 

 

Canada’s entrance in the Pan-Ameri- |
can Union would oppose the promo
tion of international trade by cre
ating a hemispheric bloc. They also
stressed Canada’s secure position
within the British Commonwealth,
making another alliance unneces
sary.

The affirmative contended that
trade agreements would _ lessen
the possibility of disputes and

the dangers of international war
by preventing the “New World
from becoming another Europe,
divided by rivalries of power
and domination. They pointed out
our common economic problems,
Canada’s need for markets, and the
advantages of mutual planning for

defence. It was argued that the ex- |

istence of large Catholic populations
in South American countries and
Canada, and traditions common to
both would lead to effective cooperation.

Trade Advantages

The democratic principles of the
Pan-American Union are the essence
of .what we have been fighting for,
and this union would give perpetuity
to these ideals.

The mutual trade advantages to be
enjoyed from such a Union were
stressed by the Dal debaters who
maintained that Canada’s export
trade would be closely increased by
the result of this union.

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”
THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M. C. A. Building Halifax
Phone 3-6881

 

FARMERS’

ALWAYS PURE

|five hundred dollars of which were
linvested in the Seventh Victory
Loan. The board will also maintain
contact. with Roy in the interests of
the students, and of the store. This
arrangement is temporary; and its
continuance will depend upon its
present success.

Due to this change in management
the familiar magazines found in the
past in the various common rooms
have been missing this year. At a
‘recent meeting the board decided to
continue purchasing these magazines
and subscriptions were placed with
publishers two weeks ago. Until
they arrive, they will be supplement‘ed with magazines from local
dealers.

Any complaints or suggestions
should be referred to Joyce Nichol\son, Shirreff’s Hall or to Ted King,
| Law School.

 

 

 

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited

Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

 

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
®

HALIFAX

Nova Scotia

THE

Rosedale Nurseries
HALIFAX DARTMOUTH

381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 Spring Garden Rd. H-2200

MILK

 

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*

i” 7
f i

ee Lj » ~~

 

 
  

: a Y . a is a 4 ; | ir } 5 ? - ‘9 : ye ee :
| pe q Pecambex 1,:1944 7074

ae

 

se ae }/\ ‘t}

The famous “sailor” trademark is a symbol of all that is best
in tobacco manufacture and guarantees that the contents
of the package will maintain Player's world-wide reputation for excellence and dependable quality.

AY aa ee

~Yes CIGARETTES

7

mae LITTLE MAN wie COULDN'T VOTE!

Who is he?

 

How is the voters’ list compiled?
What is an election writ?
What and why is an advance poll?

Who:counts the votes?

LEARN ABOUT ELECTIONS

You are fighting to preserve your democratic
way. of life.

Don’t jeopardize it through ignorance of your
democratic rights.

SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET

Fill in and mail the coupon below for your free copy of the
answers to these and many other questions about Canada’s
Federal Elections. Your request does not obligate you in
any way.

BRACKEN CLUBS OF CANADA,
63 Sparks St., Ottawa, Ontario.

Please forward a free copy of your pamphlet, ‘Do You Know?”
to:

‘
AME
SEER EER EERE RE HEE TEETER REE OTHER EEE TEEPE STREETER RRR EOE SORTER Rete eee eeeee

BILD RESS., ysucevce haters dvsvessepnreyoresosstekapnbscase ed vcatvebes tiimesces atantesebesteyoaabivnes

 

LOCAL COLOR

For interesting, accurate reports of local
events, read The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail. Everything that happens in
the Halifax area that
is newsworthy is recorded in the columns
of these great newspapers, compiled by a
staff of experienced reporters. The completeness of local news coverage makes The Halifax Herald and The
oes Mail, the most
popular newspapers
East of Montreal.

The Halifax Herald
The Halifax Mail

This Christmas ;

Give Music
You will find many suitable
music gifts at Phinneys 
Records, Music Books
Small Instruments and
Musical Novelties.

Make Your Selection Early fe

 

 

 
  
 
 
 

 
 

 

‘ taken up. with, mare  weleity affairs. |

 

 

 

Ae

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
   

   

th

: eae ‘had dents.

“I must see more of these

   

een 0. ae ,

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

i _

. |housie 2” asked an Engineer.
meek FOIE Ae ta +e
“Bod | at Shirreff Hall is good.
atk “ave Food at Shirreff ‘Hall is terrible.
Stand at atten-| The stewdents are 63 46-100% Prooe stand ‘those | gressive-Conservative, the stewdents
will | are 76% Liberal Heck, I’m not even
9 itten. | consistent,” said Lizzie the Lope,
on rank ‘you. asking herself the latest questions

im cin d by, your for DIPER (Dullhousie Institute of

e. But j ay more atten- Perpetual Erratic Reports). Tucked
to , ir scl jolastics and less to}away in the phone booth in the
“the ple going on around this Gazoot office, or the Gacoot office in
campus vy  |the phone booth, she was not seen
a The ks of. fpalibuatine stood|by Culthur Romeling, prexie of the
grimly before the cigar. Suddenly |Glum Club, who entered with his hat
7 hs gave a shriek, and moyed off in a| pulled down to meet his Robert sox.

. pane “Say, -you can't write exam-| “Things aren’t as they used to be
_ inations. ‘You haven’t complied with | around Dullhousie,” said he casually,
National ‘Selective | Service regula-|draping his muffler over one eye to

: tions—you’ re not even a Zombie.” give him that unwanted effect.

| Before these words the startled|“When I was first here, about 20
Rayne fell back, choking with morti-|years ago, this was a gentlemen’s

fication and cigar smoke. “But sir,|collitch. Peeple dressed neat, but

I’m even more physically decrepit|now (laborious business of hauling

_ than these college students. I’m es-|his hair out of his eyes) they aren’t
sential. If it wasn’t for me the col-|like that at all. They look like fugilitch would fall apart.” ’ tives from a rag-bag gag.”

_ “It’s no use,” thundered the cigar.| And yuk-yuking to himself, he sat

_, “Hither you come to O.T.C. parades | down to write a letter to the editor,

| or get into‘the Army. In either case entitled, ‘“Sartorializing With a

‘I will learn you. Learn-ah, there is|Scarecrow.” His meditations were

ba a wonderful word, so full of pun-|rudely interrupted.

oN gency and grace.” Dissolving — in} Yowls from all over the city sud
‘meditation, the cigar drifted off like denly dinted the Dullhousie ears.
‘the Cheshire cat. “Creeps, it’s a McLeak and his gabCE Up Mee eh a -|bers in action at last, but have they
smn Simian ‘Soliitudes come in time.” And sure enough,
ae ‘Meditations of a Monk and alfrom the Arts building could be

. Monkey, or Solicitude for a Simian,|heard the panting and gnawing of

written by Dr. Blurbie Stewpot, has|feminine lips while a roar went up

_ received general accord in the Can-jabout Fanning Americanism or

_adian press, and will shortly be re-|something, while over the air Mc
: leased for college stewdents, the in-|Leak and ‘Brakeable were giving

BA dustrious Miss Henny typed away in|people the ether with syllogisms on
- an announcement for the bull-well-|What to do until the doctor comes,

/ whyaddmore boards. She glanced|/or shall we cut Germany peace
iy happily at a book, with a frontis-| meal.” ,

py piece of a college professor and! The scene quietened. The stare

i rs philosophisticater teaching a group|left the campus; Rayne was drafted

of happy orange-ourangatangs the/to fulfill an important vacancy at

-. simple principles of metaphysics. Ottawa; parades stopped; Stewpot

“Every stewdent should read this,” |stopped; stop. Examinations filled
she wrote. the air. Stewdents were seen studDr. Stunnley, the big boss, ap-|ious, professors were breathing heavBee “You can add at the bottom |ily over papers, the Gazoot ceased
a footnote. A translation in Greek | publication—for just a time, though.

 

 

 

 

  

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 

  
  

 

  

  

™~

  
 

 

  
  
  
  
    
  
   
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
      
 
  
   
    
  
  
  
 
     

bs
LBs

q

he | Tatwoeclents. ” But his mind was soon|out his Knows. Snow began to fall.

LG ‘Quality and style to suit the high
Ny, requirements of the students of
a - Dalhousie will be found at ‘ithe
eee Furriers i in the East.

ee i=

oe!

" gee ;
eee

ae
2 2 oe rs

eee

a te
ee ~} +

i Band rom sot aaa for the stew- .

| TO a. lecture, on gas women around Dullhousie,”. said one
gar, aoe Ne |mighty solong, proposing the notion.
De ne 2 | “Are there any women around Dull- |

 

pistiB ut

i i (A Frank, Unbiased. Survey of
| The Shona peanpPe, a in|

a one qe pinion:

Question: “What do you think of
the work the GAZETTE’ has done
this term?” |

Answers:

STUDENTS

Steve Bloomer (Science & Eng.
’45)—On the whole the GAZETTE
is not what it should or could be,
nor does it seem to have done any
useful service this year. The
urgency for Blood Donors, the most
important student activity on the
campus this term, was merely mentioned instead of being “played up.”
It was given more than a whole column on the front page AFTER the
clinic was held. Since the Gazette
is essentially a student publication,
it should contain articles of interest to the student body. This year
for the first time, Dalhousie sent
two Med. students to Ontario to attend the meeting of C.A.M.SI. A
report on this conference was handed in to the Gazette office THREE
WEEKS ago! Where is it? ? And
with all due respects to the editor
of Literary, could not a report of
this nature replace the column occasionally ? The Gazette’s aim
should be to entertain the MAJORITY of students! What I say is
the opinion of the whole campus.

Jack Boudreau (Pre-Med. ’45)—
The Gazette this term has been an
immense improvement over that of
previous years. The main sources
of improvement have been the efforts of certain people on _ the
Gazette to print those things that
appeal to the majority of the students, such as campus gossip and
personal notes on popular people at
college. The Nov. 3rd issue of the
Gazette was the best issue of the
paper that has ever been printed, I
think. With all due respect to finer
literature, I say give us more familiar, informal articles. They are a
source of escape from the burdens
and worries of getting a university
education in wartime.

Ken Fraser (Pre-Med. ’46) — I
think the Gazette has done excellent work so far this term; although
some columns, such as Dipo and Vox
Discipuli could be omitted certain
weeks to make room for different
features, for instance another gossip column...

Sollie David (Pre-Dent. ’45) — I
think the Gazette this year is a
great improvement over last year.
The sport page is written quite well.
and the March of Grime telling of
the behavior of certain “outstanding” students is an excellent addition.’ On the whole the Gazette
seems more friendly than last year.

Mary Robertson (Scienee °48)—
I think the Gazette has done excellent work this term. However, I
think there should be more photographs in it, and in my opinion the
Literary section “stinks,” and should
be replaced by another gossip column,

Mike Waterfield (Engineering ’45)
—I think the entire second page
should be cut out, and be replaced
by more dirt. T-square should never be cut out and the editor should
be an engineer!

FACULTY
Major J. W. Logan (Dept. of
Classics)—It has been a ‘ great
source of delight to me this present
term, as one who was Editor-inchief of the Gazette 54 years ago,
to mark what I think is some improvement, in the past few years.
The chief credit of the Gazette has
always been that it is the voice of
the students and an unhampered expression of the student opinion.
Prof. C, L. Bennet (Dept. of English)—I think the Gazette is well up
to average. If I have a complaint
it is against polls, questionnaires
and interviews, especially this one.
Like most people interviewed by the
Gazette, I have neither the thoughts
nor the knowledge to do justice to
the question presented to me, and
my attempts to draw a conclusion

There are several methods for
writing examinations, including the
brilliant student’s, loiterer’s, gambler’s, or scribbled shirt sleeve, and
the ordinary student’s approach.

We came upon Rabid. Foldwell in
his garrett last night, and decided
that here would be someone with the
inside story on this red-hot or brilliant student’s approach. “Foldwell,
how does one write a successful examination?”

Pass With Class

“You've got to get hep to your
rep. If you’re a long hair with
plenty of jive between the ears, and
lots of acreage of intellect, the one
thing to do to cut a successful rug
is to pass the night tuning in on the
red-hot stuff of Gibbons, Voltaire, or
whatever mug is on the jug”.

Is that all there is to it? Not by
a long shot, though we had rather
hoped. “Don’t mope, dope, if the jig
is up with the applecart. Start
scratching from the kernels of truth
up, and go college with knowledge.
The true university is a scramble of
ale labels”.

I suppose so. Anyway, we've
taken that down faithfully and went
into greener pastures, encountering
a frosh who couldn’t be filled with
this bosh in such short time. We
asked him the usual questions.

Bosh With A Frosh
“IT suppose I should consider the

matter with due care and considera
tion, paying attention to what might
be, and yet which turns out after
more than superficial inquiry to what
isn’t. That is the problem. To know
and what not to know, which is, in
the end, a defeat of the basic meaning of a university education, for a
person should strive for education,
and not the mere knowing of a few
facts for examination purposes.
Pragmatically or basically philosophic, logically or superficially~how
shall one tackle the problem?”

Luck Without Pluck
From the sounds of it all, I should
say knowledge had him firmly by the
throat. Our third inquiry, in the

 

would be misleading. The only other complaint is the inclusion of too
many personal items which must be
well known to the small proportion
of Gazette readers who have any interest in them.

DAL DAZE

group between brilliancy and ordinary student, was a bedraggled looking series of scrawls, which turned
out to be a bum student dressed in
the latest zoot-suit, with exam cribs
attached.

It turned’ out his laundry bill was
the least troublesome problem on his
mind. ‘What, oh what, am I going
to do if I am asked to write on the
basie contribution of Saucer to English literature? All the information,
including an Olde Englishe alphabet,
is way up around my shoulders.”

We told him not to worry, that he
could pretend to scratch himself.
We left him writing the 2x2 table on
his shoé laces.

T,SQUARE

Anticipating a boycott by the Hall,
those resourceful Boilermakers have
taken the cue from the girls and are
casting glances towards the Wrens.
“Red” describes one in the Warrant
Officers’ mess as “all right, don’t
you kid yourself’; this from one
who has seen women come and go
for over a hundred years. True,
they have no gold braid, but who

   

 

wants to be seen in public anyway? |

* x

The Millionaires’ Ball produced a
good crop of Sweater Girls, but are
we right in saying Margot remains
the one and only Bloomer Girl?

3K be *

The Gym Store Commuters’ Club
will shortly bring before the Board
of Governors the drafting room’s
urgent need of—noj not a bar,—just
an automatic jerker. The problem
is one of cutting down 10-minute
siestas to half an hour; we propose
that as the mid-afternoon exodus begins the commuters be attached to a
ball and chain. With the usual nod
from Prof. Copp, the jerker would
start reeling them in.

Who said the room is full of jerks
now ?

26 * *

Last week marked the organization of the 1944 edition of the Zero
Club, membership restricted to those
juniors with an average of nothing

 

YOU HAVE A DATE
WITH

  

Life offers you many opportunities . . . you may wish to establish a
home, or devote yourself to a business career . . . in any case you

want contentment and happiness.

Present ie is incomplete unless you can also look forward

to a happy an

secure future for yourself and your loved ones.

Life insurance guarantees future security ... it can assure income
when earning power ceases (your own or your husband’s).

IF YOU HAVE) DEPENDENTS—If ii have someone dependent

on you, you can get a Mutual Life of

anada policy to provide for

Tom dependent’s security, as well as for your retirement years. A
utual Life representative will be glad to discuss an insurance

paar to fit your individual needs. Call or write your nearest
utual Life of Canada office today.

Make this Your Company by Becoming a Policyholder
THE

  

MUTUAL

 

[IFE

Established 1869
Head Office — Waterloo, Ont.

PROTECTING OVER 180,000 CANADIAN FAMILIES

1869 e

75th YEAR” e

1944

 

 

 

or under. As sure evidence of effects
of the Montreal invasion, Ghetler
was unanimously elected President.
Someone accused him of being a perfect dope, but we protest—after alt,
no one is perfect. |
co 2 Bo
In answer to many requests, we
can now reveal the identity of the
gentleman who appears regularly in
indelible chalk on wet blackboards.
You recall Waldo of the S.C-M. sign
in the Arts Building ?—the strange
man is a vision of Waldo after a
meal at Shirreff Hall.

 

 

ORPHEUS

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“END OF THE ROAD”
and “FORTY THIEVES”

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
“DARK MOUNTAIN” and
“STAGE COACH MONTREY

 

 

GARRICK

Saturday to Friday

THE SIGN OF THE
CROSS
CLAUDETTE COLBERT

CHARLES LAUGHTON
FREDERIC MARCH

 

CASINO

FOR ONE WEEK

*

GYPSY
WILDCAT

edi acl

TECHNICOLOR

 

      

OXFORD

Today and Saturday
“ONCE UPON A TIME” and
“A NIGHT OF ADVENTURE”

 

Mon. — Tues. — Wed.
“HOME IN INDIANA”

 

Thurs. — Fri. — Sat.
MICKEY ROONEY

Ces BRD | eee
ANDY HARDY’S BLOND
TROUBLE

 

CAPITOL

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“Greenwich
Village”

Cin Technicolor)

Carmen
MIRANDA @ AMECHE

Don

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

Alan Larane
MARSHALL @ DAY

ai

“Bride By Mistake”

 
     
  
 
 
 
 
  

 
   
 

a m which comes here with a
z reputation and boast
 
   
   
 

U “We ‘haye been observing

oy charges this week and can
ly say that their chances are
, since the team compares favor
   

  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
    
    
    
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
     
     
         
      
  
  

We are hoping that

* + *

he Tn, a spirited meeting of the D.A.
ac. this week, the athletic body
seems to be unanimously in favor
coined having boxing included in the
inst sport programme at Dal for
_ years. This is certainly a step in
" the: right direction and it is expected that a team will be picked to
_ represent Dal in a possible Intercol legiate meet next term. Much in| - terest has been shown, especially in
the Freshman class, and it looks like
 @ banner revival.

ea a

Not only do the basketball prospeets look very bright this year, but
the hockey prospects seem bright
also.. Returning from last year’s
senior squad we have such stars as
Bob Wade and Zen Graves, defencemen; and Pete Flynn, Ed. Crowell
‘and Bob MacDonald.. Although this
shows a loss of most of last season’s
team, we are fortunate in obtaining
many excellent players from Q. E.
HH S., Tast year’s provincial high
school titlists. Three polished forwards: R. Blakney, Art Lightfoot
and Ted LeBlanc, are expected to
_ provide a forward line for the
year’s Tigers. The only drawback
is the lack of a goalie. However,
one may be found in the practices
that are commencing today at 1.00.
Manager Don Harris expects to ar
range a few trips for the boys this
ee year, probably one to Mt. A. So
i come out today fellows and get
things started with a bang.

   
     
      
       
     
   
 

 
 
  

 

ic eee
ay Drafting Class |
ee so * Se
i 3 ® It’s getting so the Be
ee id Drafting student or Art Nts
Re student daren’t turn his :
et back on his TURQUOISE a
_ Drawing Pencil. oe
he Students, professors, a
cay instructors, teachers, oe
artists. and businessmen [R225
have all discovered that # oe
TURQUOISE is more oF
than just the world’s finest bet
drawing pencil. It’s also ee

_the finest writing pencil
ever made.

SUGGESTION TO
DRAFTING and
ART STUDENTS: _
Tell ’em to buy their own

‘TURQUOISE. They’re
ae only 10c.

    
     
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

1A. ian
*y ae

cy ls senior teams competing in|

 

Ralston Feanny

Probably the most outstandingly
versatile athlete on the campus this
year is that debonaire young man
from Jamaica— Ralston Feanny.
Few, if any, people are acquainted
with some of his accomplishments
both at Dal and in Jamaica sports
circles, and the object of this sketch
is to enumerate many of his feats.

Before coming to Dal, Ral attended Jamaica College in St. Andrew’s, Jamaica. Besides starring in
athletics, he maintained a high
standard of scholarship winning several prizes in his graduation year.

Ral’s activities have not been solely |

confined to one sport; he is a star
in soccer, swimming, diving, track,
boxing and rugby.

While attending Jamaica ‘College
he played four years with his school
in the intercollegiate competition.
He also played senior soccer with

the Wembly Athletic Club and in
1941 was a member of the allJamaica team. This year he has

proved his prowess as a member of
the Dal team and was really one of
the best performers in the city. In
swimming competitions Feanny won
the 100, and 66 2-3 meters breast
stroke, setting a pool record. For
two years he was an intercollegiate
champ. Last year in the Acadia
meet he won the 20-yard and 40yard breast stroke, tying the record in the 20. One year at Jamaica

 

TIGERS MEET DEBERT TONITE

To-night this year’s edition of Dalhousie’s Basketball Tigers will face their first opposition in a strong team from Debert
Burnie Ralston is optimistic about the team’s

Army camp.

chances for tonight’s game, since he says that the boys are ex
ceptionally strong.

The starting line-up will be:
Cooley and Giffen—guards; Blair
Dunlop—centre; Alf Cunningham

and Alex. Farquhar—forwards. It
is very interesting to note the past
history of these five players. Sever
al years ago they started to play
under the leadership of Rev. Don
MaelIntosh, a former star at Dalhousie, then assistant minister of
St. Andrew’s Church. For many
years they, together with Bob

Knight and Bill Pope, who will both
see action in the game, played for
championship teams. The boys
started in Trail Ranger and common
school leagues and worked up the
hard way until now the boys are
performing in senior circles. Dunlop, Giffen and Farquhar are holdovers from last year’s senior team,
while Cunningham and ‘Cooley were
outstanding stars at Q.E.H.S. last
year. In practices this week, the
boys have been going great guns
and aré ready to shoot the fireworks
at Debert tonight.

Adam Smith, Art Robinson, Bill
Pope and Bob Knight are all forwards and will see plenty of action
tonight. Smith comes to Dal with
an enviable record in High School
circles having performed with Rothsay. He has a nice shot and is a
tricky ball-handler. Robinson, a
southpaw, hails from St. John High
and starred with that team’ in New
Brunswick High School competition.
Knight and Pope both played with
the senior Tigers last season.
Knight is a center who’ keeps close
tabs on his man. Pope is a tricky
dribbler and gets his share of points.

From last year’s Intermediate
team we have Doug and Vic Clark
who are both guards. Doug is a
heady, fast-breaking player and Vic
is a steady player who seems glued
to his men. This will be the last
student function before the near
(too near) exams; it would be fitting to have a little ‘rest after toil,
ease after Payne’. (Apologies to J.
Milton).

 

College he was the intercollegiate
high diving champ.

On the cinder paths, Ral
He was the 120-yard hurdling
champ with the fast time of 15.2,
and “was his school broad-jumping
champ for two years with a mark
of 21’6”.. He is a sprinter and his
| best time for the 100-yard dash is 10
seconds flat. Also for a year he was
the shot-putting winner, hurling the
12-lb. shot-put a distance of 40 feet.

In the ring, Ral has shown many
how to, handle their fists. For five
years he was lightweight champ of
his school, and for two years the
inter-collegiate king.
Dal he is expected to carry away
honours in the forthcoming boxing
tourney. Well, we don’t have to tell
much about his perfoymances on the
gridiron this fall. Never having
played rugby before this' year he developed into a star, and in the last
four games carried the mail for the
team. With his speed, kicking ability, tackling ability,“heeling and
sheer determination he was invaluable.. Ral plans to go into Med.
school next year and will be around
for some years yet.

ee 88

This year at}

| College Yell

is aflash.| Drive Booming

 

|

Dalhousie has just completed a
successful season of rugby, capturing the City Senior League Crown.
We had a very good team at the out- |
set of the season but one that was
depleted at the end of the season
due to casualties sustained enroute.
To the team we must and do give
credit for their prowess, yet we like

| to think that the spirit of the stud
ent body contributed grenity to their
success.

As regards the “NEW COLLEGE
YELLS,” the response to our contest has not been as good as we expected. A few very good entries
kave been received but we feel that
more should be submitted before any
decision is made with regard to
prizes. Right now, with the prospect of Christmas facing everyone,
perhaps it would be too much of an
effort to submit new yells, but if
you do find time send your entries
in right now. In the event that
a sufficient number of entries are
not received before Christmas the
contest will be extended into the
second week of January, so let’s get

 

_ Have a Coca-Cola= a over

     
 

 

~

48s OF + beeping youth happy at bi

Keeping young folks happy at home is mostly a matter of having a
house in which they and their friends feel welcome. A radio, ora
phonograph and some records; a
they’re happy. And don’t forget
attraction for the young crowd.
on over... we're glad to see you. Be sute there’s “Coke” in your
icebox. In all the world there’s no more cordial invitation, nor one
more refreshing, than the three simple words . . . Have a “‘Coke.”’

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

Mee a Me

ey

 

ce to dance, a little food and
ca-Cola . i: it’s always a big
It says better than words, Come

  
     

    

It’s natural for popolar names to
acguire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why ne hear Coca-Cola
called “Goke’ 680

| term.

 
 
 
 
  
  
   
    
   

At last the Freshmen at Dalhousie
have installed a little spirit in the

Gymnasium and Roy’s store. After
great discussion and controversy

they have at last thought of something of value, namely the idea of
reviving boxing at Dalhousie.

D. A. A. C. Approve
Interfaculty Boxing

The D.A.A.C. executive opened
the meeting Wednesday night with
a discussion of the awarding of Interfaculty pins to the Frosh winners. It was decided to award pins
to thirteen players, two substitutes
and a manager. Next the prospect
of boxing was discussed and it was
decided that with the finalists com
 

pete on Munro Day, winners receiving pins. After this Interfaculty Boxing will be continued for

the remainder of the term with the
winning faculty receiving a trophy.
Art Hartling was appointed man
| ager and he hopes to start things

with a bang as soon as classes are
resumed. The, D.A.A.C. would like
to see boxing again become a major
sport at Dalhousie, with felt D’s being awarded to participants. A lot
can be accomplished in the second
We hear that a battle royal
is shaping up between Billy “Moose”
Lund and Don “Dancer” Dunlop;
with this background interest should
certainly be aroused. All kidding
aside fellows, let’s help Art and inaugurate boxing again in Dalhousie
as a major sport.

 

cracking! Give us some new yells
and then come out to the games and
give your teams the incentive that

will undoubtedly carry them far
along the road to success.
Remember the prizes will be

awarded on the basis of originality,
rhythm and public appeal. 1st
Prize—$15.00; 2nd Prize—$10.00,
and 8rd Prize—$5.00.

 

eee

feated H.L.C., 1—0, in an exhibition
‘same yesterday afternoon.

FRESHMEN ACTIVE IN
REVIVAL OF INTERFACULTY BOXING

  
       
   
   
   
  

  

e e

Varsity Lineup

L. Guards—C. Giffen, D. Clark.

R. Guards—R. Cooley, V. Clark.

L. Forwards—A. Farquhar, A.
Robinson.

Centres—B. Dunlop, R. Knight.

R. Forwards—A,. Cunningham,
B. Pope.

 
  
 
 
 

FLASH!
D.G.A.C. ground hockey team de
   
   
       
       
   
    
  
   
  
    
     
    
    
   

Art Hartling and Ral Feanny
have banded together a bunch of enthusiastic Freshmen and _bloodthirsty Engineers in hopes of forming a boxing club. Under the able
direction of Burnie Ralston, our
physical director, the club will get
under way as soon as classes begin
after Christmas.

If a good enough team is produced
we hope to arrange intercollegiate
fights against such colleges as St.
Mary’s, St. F.X. and possibly
University of New Brunswick.

We hear that a number of the
Meds are really good boxers, so here
is your chance Meds to prove that
you’re as tough as we hear you are.
The Aris & Science have such outstanding boxers as A. Hartling, R.
Feanny and Z. Graves; the Engineers, A. Burgess, B. Wade and M.
Waterfield, while the Freshmen are
pinning their hopes on B. Burgess
and D. Kerr.

 

For Just a
Moment

of

season,

In the midst our

A.
busy holiday
may we pause to extend our best wishes
for Christmas and the

New Year.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

 

     
  

MEN'S

Scarves.

iv

By EATON’S Men’s Wear Department—Main Floor
“4

Ni

¢T. EATON

& MARITIMES

ae

"tate feats a

GIFT SCARVES

ATON’S is ready to help you with your gift shopping by
WY offering for your selection a range of men’s attractive
. The choice of colours and patterns is extensive and
you should we able to find scarves to suit several of the men on
your gift list from the assortment on
display at EATON’S. Priced at, each..

1.95 ° 6.50

Lie

+t 2a 6 ee ae Feat haat aaa aa isa arkaon
