  
  
    
        

 

4
:

  

D

a

>)

:
;
i ir

     

4

Pe
e

  

I

      
       
   
     
     
       
      
      
      
      
          
     
       
       
        
        
           
     
       
       
         
         
       
      
 
   
     
        
     
     
   
        
 
  
   
        
     

 

ve

   
 

)

  

¢

 
  

a

a

  

i=
ae

are able to speak foreign languages

f

that I know more than he does!

-uating I plan to-go on in some sort
- of Biological work. Who knows, I

* my weak points, and Languages are
my foundation and the subjects that

4 ee
_ that I plan to join U.N.R.R.A.|

“" bilitatio

    
 

paul 7 oJ at Ppn Sl
aay ee REO
Cra} ae

 

q

a> Y
Vye hae ule
‘4 fs ees ; A

 

 

   
 

ae AMERICA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 

4

VOL. LXXVII
VOX
DISCIPULI

A frank, unbiased survey of campus
opinion
Pe ey eae
~ Question: Why did you choose
arts and/or science as your course,
and what do you plan to do on receiving your degree?

 

ARTS & SCIENCE IN ACTION!!

 

       
       
      
      
     
        
      
       
   
         
   
     
       
     
     
      
       
     
     
    
       
     
   
   
      
     

 

Answers:

Nancy Wilson, Science ’48 — I
chose science because I am very interested in that sort of work. I
plan to major in Chemistry and
Biology because of all the sciences
I have come in contact I like these
best. After (and IF) receiving my
degree I plan to find an eligible
male and get married. I guess I
won’t be able to use my college
training in married life, but at least
I will be able to show my husband

 

The abeve shot was snapped by The Gazette photographer at’ the
recent Studley Ball, held in the Gym. Sponsored by the Arts and Science
Society, the dance was widely attended, and proved a huge financial
success.

PRESIDENT HARTLING ISSUES
STATEMENT ON YEAR'S PROGRESS

The first meeting in October of the Arts & Science Society
saw a well attended meeting, getting down to the job of electing
some new officers, a fact made necessary because some of them
—(for example, the former President Gordon Hart) had left
college since then. It was these elections that set the ball
rolling for the new year for Arts & Science—a year when it
was hoped, the customary activities would not only be carried
on, but improved as much as possible.

DANCE GREAT SUCCESS

And I think that this policy was clearly shown in the
Arts & Science Dance, called “Studley Ball”—a name which we
hope will be continued in the years to come. Everybody knows
what it is like to dance in the Gym. The place is usually lighted
like a room in a penitentary! So, the Dance Committee decided
that a few drastic changes would be made. To make the place
danceable it was decided that “these lights would have to go.”
And they did! “Those who were there know the “Blackout”
spoke for itself. These lights plus the great work done by Ken
Burns on. those portraits were enough to arouse in the chaperones—Prof. and Mrs. Bennet, Prof. and Mrs. Foran and Prof.
and Mrs. Hayes, keen interest in the personalities portrayed.
Incidentally, the dance committee for Arts & Science has set a
high standard for the comfort of chaperones at dances, so
future dance comittees had better take heed! (Here’s a note on
the side—the dance cleared approximately $35-$40!)

The next main event of the Arts & Science Society will be
the one-act play presentation for the competition for the
Connolly Shield. The play, comically called ‘“Tea-Pot on the
Rocks” is under the management of Joyce Nicholson, and it is
being directed by the students themselves. It will be remembered that it was only two years ago that the Society last won
the Shield with the play “Coming of Age”. Last year, the
Society produced a mystery, for a change, and as a result lost
the Shield. So we’re going back to comedy again, and we’ll see
if we can’t win that Connolly Shield back once more. So watch

for the date of the play—it will probably be around the end of
February.

Eville Gorham, Science ’45 — I
chose Science as my course because
I prefer Biology as a major subject
and intend to take post-graduate if
possible in this subject. After grad
might end up as hired man on an
experimental farm !

Alex. Farquhar, Arts ’47—I chose
Arts because it is required before
one is allowed to enter Law school,
and I couldn’t do Sciences anyhow!
Although only one year is required

for entrance to Law, I decided to
take my degree so I would have a
good general education. After graduation I plan to make a lot of
money, buy an island off the Lunenburg coast, settle down to marry.
(Ed. Note ... marry or Mary?)

John Meakin, Science ’48—I chose
Science because I believe that after
this war there will be a great opportunity in South America for scientists who speak several languages
fluently. There will be great openings in the plastic and oil industries
for any young and ambitious scien-.
tists either male or female. After
receiving my degree I plan to go on
with rescarch work in the field of
plastics. That is why I plan to major in Chemistry.

Arthur Hartling, Arts °45 — I
chose Arts because I plan after my
receiving my Degree to enter the
Foreign Service. For work such as
this, a liberal education is an asset,
if not an absolute necessity. Furthermore, I have always retained an
active interest in dramatics, and
only in the field offered by Arts
studies could I learn more of this
subject. In my opinion' the only
complete education gained in University is gained by the student in
Arts.

Roslyn Schaefer, Arts 48 — I
chose Arts because mathematics are

INTERFACULTY SPORT

As far as sports go, manager Bob MacDonald, handicapped
as he was with a bad knee, was able in spite of that to get a
football team out and though our wins were not quite as numerous as our losses, yet everybody had a lot of fun, which is, after
all, the main thing. Bob’s going to get together a basketball
team for interfaculty sports and also help Don Harris with
formation of a hockey team, so, as far as the athletic side goes
the Society is right on top. Oh, yes—there’s boxing too, which
was more or less started up again by the Arts & Science Society. And what with cool Ralston Feanny, slugger Bob MacDonald, and crafty Zen Graves fighting for us in the inter
(United Nations Relief and Reba- faculty bouts the society is definitely “in there punching!”
pilitation, 3 BLOOD DONATIONS

Administration 2? ? ?)|
I'd like to finish up on a more serious side and appeal to
‘those who have not as yet given blood to the Red Cross.
_| There’s no need for me to tell you how urgent and necessary
the| this matter is. I know that if you, each and all of you, would
the| see for yourselves first hand just how big a part blood plasma
of| plays on the battlefield with the wounded, you wouldn’t hesiOf tate. Who knows, but that your next door neighbor, overseas,

ee geil ae Ms oe o, 5% _ (Continu on a e Two)

+e ins
ir c a ( *
a Jn 58 y aa i
ae Leer |
ie fe 7 >
A a a ae a a a
G “
. = ‘ f aa ot

I like best. After receiving my
B.A. at Dalhousie I plan to go to
Columbia to take my M.A. After

         
    
       

    
 

     
  
 
  
   
 
   

ganization needs people that|

  

at hae
¥ %
mee 1p i

 
  

pk

     
 

i
|

 

HALIFAX, N. S§ JANUARY 26, 1945

‘Society Celebrates

REVIVED ENTHUSIAM EVIDENT inACTIVITIES Its 81st Birthday

ORIGINALLY FOUNDED
AS A DEBATING CLUB

In 1864 a little group was founded
at Dalhousie from which evolved
down through the years, our present
Arts & Science Society. Then it
was known as the Dalhousie Debating Society, and, quite naturally,
debating was its principal activity.
Its members used to meet weekly,
according to reports of them in old
issues of the Gazette, its discussions
covered a wide area, and were extremely popular.

“The closing lecture before the
Dalhousie College Debating Society was delivered on Friday evening last, by Dr. Lawson. The
subject was Air, and it was
treated in that able manner which
pre-eminently characterizes Dr. L.
We are sorry that we have no
space to give an extended report;
suffice it to say that the Hall was
crowded — that the audience was
most interested and pleased—and
that the experiments, ably performed by Messrs. Abbinett and
Lindsay, were very brilliant.”

(Dathousie Gazette, April 5, 1865)

It is remarkable to observe how
the status of women students on the
campus has risen since that time.
For the first six years none of the
female species were permitted to
attend any meetings of the Society
or take part in its debates. One
week the resolution was: “Resolved
that a Female Seminary at Dalhousie would be advisable”. The
negative side won by a six-sevenths
majority. O tempora! O mores!
Could they but see their college
now!

Infused, perhaps with the spirit
of Tennyson’s brook, the Society
continued to be very active, despite
perpetual changes in its membership, up to the years immediately
preceding the first World War. In
1912 a new constitution was granted
the Students’ Council, calling for a
council member for every twentyfive students, these members to be
nominated by the various faculty
societies.

The Medical Society nominated
three members, the Law two, the
Dentistry Society one; but alas!
there was yet no society for the
largest student body on the campus,
Arts & Science.

Doing the best they could with
what they had, the Council authorized the old debating club to nominate eight council members. ~ The
word ‘Debating” was dropped from
its title, and it became strictly the
Arts & Science Society.

This arrangement, however, was
unsatisfactory. The ex-debating society had no constitution, and by no
means represented a majority of the
students in the Arts & Science
faculty. The Engineers, as usual,
were particular peeved, and demanded the right to nominate their own
council representatives. During the
winter of 1913-1 they broke away,
unler the leadership of Bert Hayes,
and formed their own organization.
As the result of this general discontent, a constitution was drawn up
for the Arts & Science Society,
providing: for the nomination of
council members by the individual
classes.

During all these revolutionary
changes, debating had presevered
only to be smothered, forever it

(Continued on Page Three)

Gazette

STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

Students’ Council

 

a ry a 7 #, 5
7 ns ee A’
{

ported in Arts and Scienc

 

mMOZM-O

No. 12

Still Determined.

 

To Obtain Common Room Facilities

The so much wished for Common Room was one of the topics discussed at the meeting of the Student Council Executive
last Friday. Members of the specially appointed Common Room
Committee had been invited to attend the meeting and the problem was talked over in great detail.

a
ee

Severe criticism, which had been voiced by apparently misinformed students and was unjustly directed against the Council’s failing to make any headway in this matter, had reached
the ears of the executive and its committee, and it was felt necessary to restate the position of the Council on that point.

Faced with the fact that permis- ¢— —

sion to go ahead with our plans regarding a Students’ Common Room
in the basement of the Gym could
not be obtained from University
authorities, the Students’ Council is
nevertheless determined to “surmount these and any other obstacles” and secure for the students
a common room on the campus, as
was pointed out in an issue of the
Gazette two weeks ago.

The original plan for a Common
Room in the Gym had been suggested after careful study for the following reasons:

The Students’ Council was very
anxious to see that the urgent need
for a Students’ Common Room
should be met with as soon as _ possible. At the time when the original plan was worked out there were
no reasonable prospects of securing
the necessary space for such a common room in any of the existjng
buildings or “buildings to be” before the end of the session 1945-46;
except in the basement of the Gym
where space is not used to its full
capacity at present nor will be used
in the near future. While this site
was found to be the only one available and was never considered to be

* — ———————— te tte

for a Students’ Common Room may
become available sogner than had
originally been expected. The Students’ Council, through its special
committee. has therefore approached
the University Executive with a request for an immediate agreement
whereby, if said executive should
not have received word in writing by
July 31, 1945, that the building referred to above will become available before December 31, 1945, or if
for some other reason the facilities
for a united Students’ Common
Room in that building should not become available as by that date, the
University Executive will grant the
students permission to proceed with
their original plans regarding a
common room in the basement of
the Gym.

Special Issue Suds
By Faculty Secretary

Dear Mr. McLaren:

The Gazette and the student members of Arts and Science are to be
congratulated on publishing an issue
specially devoted to that Faculty,
and it is my pleasure, on behalf of

exactly “ideal,” it was nevertheless | the teaching members, to offer you

not the worst site imaginable, but |

certainly the best under the circumstances, that is to say, as long as no
better locality is available.

In the meantime,

for .various |
reasons referred to above, it has be-|

our best wishes for its success.
Though it takes more than one
faculty to make a University, liberal

| arts and pure science are the source

and centre of all the rest. It is
hoped that your issue will give the

come a sheer impossibility for the} Faculty its due place as an essential

Students’ Council to satisfy the!
needs of the students attending Dal-|
We have |
been given to understand, however, |

housie during this session.

that another building with facilities

 

 

W. C. MacDonald, M.P.,

Addresses Round Table Group

The Round Table Group held its
usual meeting on Wednesday night
with Mr. W. C. MacDonald, M.P.
(Lib.-Halifax) as the special speaker.
Mr. MacDonald showed the trend of
the Liberal policy for the Canadian
postwar period by reviewing the legislation already enacted by the Government, especially during the recent
session of Parliament. Among other
acts, he mentioned in particular the
bill to support UNRRA to the extent
of $8,000,000; the re-organization of
Canada’s aeronautic program; the
revision of the Bank Act, extending
the amount of credit that may be
given to individual entrepreneurs;
the substantial improvements in the
civil service superannuation act;
and the baby bonus scheme.

Mr. MacDonald laid particular

a

Happenings

— a

member of our corporate life.
Yours sincerely,
C. L. BENNET,
Secretary to the Faculty of Arts
and Science.

a

 
 
  

OF THE WEEK
IN REVIE W

stress on the Canadian Price Control
system, as introduced by the Liberal
Party during the present national
emergency. Although it was the
Liberal principle to have as few restrictions on the individual as possible, some controls are necessary
during wartime, and so efficient is
the Canadian system, that it was
adopted to a large extent in the
United States and New Zealand.
The Liberal Party, Mr. MacDonald
intimated, was the only Canadian
political party with a sound foreign
policy, that of no isolation, no balance of power, and no non-aggression pacts. Rather, it maintained
that the only system that could
work was one that would make it
impossible for any nation to go to
war with its neighbours, one with an
international police force governed

(Continued on Page Two)

 
  
   

_ “THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA”
Editorial Room, Arts Bldg.: Phone 3-7098 !

 

Editor-in-Chief
JIM McLAREN (4-2286)

8
ALEX F UHAR

Features
BOB McCLEAVE
BLAIR DUNLOP

Moth! BOB TUCK ERROL McDONALD JOHN HIBBITTS
RR Proofs ANNETTA GOODMAN
HARRY AIKENS
ie abe ISABEL WILMOT

; Reportorial
AL LOMAS LIZ REEVES (C.U.P.) JACK NICHOLSON
‘JIM CAMPBELL ART SAFFRON MARY MacDONALD
i TED SHIELDS PAT CREWE JACK SIDEL
ae DON HARRIS BILL KELLY

Business Manager: FRED MARTIN

DEDICATION TO ARTS AND SCIENCE

; The fact that extra-curricular activities at Dalhousie to
_ date this year have proven unexpectedly successful, speaks well
of the initiative and enthusiasm of the student body. It speaks,

 

 

wet too, however, of a rejuvenated Arts and Science society whose
_ ~~~ members are providing a nucleus of leadership in virtually all
_. fields of campus endeavor.

Rey, There was a time when the Arts and Science student never
ventured beyond the confines of classroom or library. ConsidGuia ering “extra-curricular” undertakings a waste of precious time,
he refused to abandon his studies occasionally in the interests
of an active, progressive campus life.

ais; However, it is gratifying to note the immense forward
wa strides made by Arts and Science in the past few years. Ad
mittedly the society must overcome innumerable weaknesses and
Rese obstacles, but there is every indication that it is rapidly evolvhe ing into a stable and influential student organization. At long
Ee last its members have come to realize that the realm of books

| is not the only advantage proffered by the modern university.
i The Dalhousie Gazette is proud to dedicate this edition to
the Arts and Science society. May it continue to grow and
' . prosper threugh the years.

th of ee tesedteens-snshesnnsnssssnneennseinesneet nipping

war EVENING STAR CREDULITY
iy | When as a child
| I put my face to earth,

ee
eg

Night stepped down from a dusky

i hill, | Vd faney I heard music deep inside.
Ph And stole the last bright fragment Rave’ nanieto! uvidioe tines cave
Dy of day, birth

ee Pa it fast to a jeweled While 1 was listening:

ee Pista Ory Now a foolish pride

wi yer ey ey way Would make me half admit that it
Pale S was so.

i _- But when the shadows had deeper Instead of Chinese children down
it Ye grown, | below;

ti. _ And a bird had hushed its song, | Or, as I once believed beneath the
' ‘Night brought forth her glittering) sod,

Onis eer | Pan’s pipes playing
| For an angel to wish upon, /'To a pagan god.
eaten
i a
PRESIDENT HARTLING

Rayon’ (Continued from page one)

_ may have been saved by blood plasma. So get in touch with
Bill Mingo, the Arts and Science representative to the commit_._ tee, under Larry Sutherland, and tell him you want to donate
- your blood to Red Cross.
ee WANT ACTIVE PARTICIPATION
As a final word I'd like to urge everyone of Arts and
‘ _ Seience to take an active part in its affairs—it may be small,
' _—but that doesn’t matter. The fact that you are really interest ed—and that’s the best way of taking an active part—in the
_ affairs of the Society, means a great deal now, to your execu-. tive, and will mean more, in the future, to you when you have
+ left college.

 
 

—K.E.B.

ae

art
.,
ay

ARTHUR HARTLING,
. Pres..Arts & Seience Society.

Balbousie Uniuersity
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastega Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees; B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematios, Modern
Languages and History.
Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses.

 

The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year,
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.
- Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

 

  
 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Ottawa Calling

(“Inside” News from the Political Front)
A CANADIAN UNIVERSITY PRESS FEATURE
By NEIL MaeDONALD

  

  

OVER THE FENCE IS OUT

It may now be fairly assurfied that NRMA troops in large
numbers are not behind the government policy of sending up to
16,000 of them overseas as reinforcements. Yesterday, the
figure of soldiers AWOL was estimated at up to 700; today—
(Saturday the 20th)—the number has climbed to 2000 or more.

It is quite probable that the attitude of the soldiers is the
result of too many announcements in the past by the government that compulsory service overseas was unnecessary coupled
with an inept introduction of what must have, to many soldiers
affected by the order, discrimination in sending 16,000 soldiers
overseas out of 65,000 eligible men.

MEDIUM or MILD

January 26, 1945

 

 

 

“Intimidation” Policy 2 YT Nt ico a MTR ea etna
in the teccntamat which it suewee| @ Stadt Sketches PLAYER'S NAVY CUT CIGARETTES

up, the inevitable reaction to
over several years, to get the
soldiers overseas. Military spokesmen have acknowledged that such a
policy was carried out in the past,
and I have heard eye-witness accounts of just how, by ostracism and
“Joe-jobs”, draftees were persuaded
to “Go Active”,

Is it any wonder that, after years
of pressure, and years of negative
propaganda, the men affected by the
order to send 16,000 NRMA troops
overseas resented it enough to go
AWOL? You cannot build esprit de
corps overnight, and you cannot
blame a man for distrusting the
“kindness” technique introduced by
General McNaughton when he has
been exposed to something else for
such a long time.

News Censorship

Just as important as the absenteeism among the soldiers has been
the holding up of the news about it
for a month after it happened. Security is the reason—the fact that
the enemy must not be allowed to
know that the soldiers were being
moved east to embarkation centres
and that the soldiers were absenting
themselves along the way,

However, General McNaughton
has been telling Canadians, and the
enemy also, that troops were proceeding overseas, and it has been
known by hundreds of thousands of
Canadians that there was disaffection among the NRMA troops. Perhaps the real point is that General
McNaughton has been creating an
impression in all his recent speeches
that reinforcements were proceeding
overseas in an orderly fashion, when
the facts were that thousands of
troops were going AWOL.

Grey North Campaign

Both opposition parties have now

some powerful ammunition to use

 

 

HAPPENINGS— |

(Continued from page 1)

by an international body. Also, he
made it very clear that Canada
would speak for herself at the forthcoming peace conference, not as a
satellite of Great Britain, but as a
free independent. nation.

On being questioned on the North
Grey by-election, Mr. MacDonald
said that General MacNaughton, as
Minister of National Defence, needed a seat in the House in accordance with Canadian political tradition, and that, consequently, the
Prime Minister was justified in calling such a by-election at this time.
Mr. King, he said, was also justified
in making it a national issue, for
the CCF party had supported his
policy in the House, and thus had no
right to contest the by-election. Finally, Mr. MacDonald stated that he
would not be surprised to see the
Prime Minister dissolve the House
and call a general election if the
other parties did submit the names
of candidates on nomination day

next week.
* * *

Arts & Science Defeat Engineers in First of Interfaculty
Debates
The first of the forthcoming series
of interfaculty debates was also
held last Wednesday evening, the
Engineers, Saffron, MacDonald, and
Sulsky upholding the affirmative of |
the resolution; “Resolved that Brit- |

its |
Ee ! |
policy of intimidation, carried on |

   
 
   

No. 3

   

LAST LONGER

YOUR SUITS

LOOK NEWER

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

      
  

 

MAJOR LOGAN

  
 

Major Logan, a distinguished Dalhousian in many ways, was born
not in Pictou County, but Colchester
County an undisclosed number of
years ago. He came to Dal in 1889
on a George Munroe Scholarship and
held it throughout his B.A. Course
(M.A. in 1909). He played on Dal
rugby teams for several seasons
and, on leaving Dal, became Classical Master at Halifax Academy in
1894, He served throughout the first
Great War in France and Flanders
with the famous 25th Battalion. In
1919 he retired from the army (and
as the London Gazette says) “retaining his rank of Major. without
pay,” he returned to the Halifax
Academy. He retired in 1938. At
the present time he is a governor
of the University and Volunteer
Lecturer in Latin and Greek.

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish

lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
-~send what you have to Cousins often.

 
       
   
  
  

against the General. They can say
that his limited conscription policy
has not worked, and they will probably use their opportunity to the
fullest advantage in campaigning
against him in Grey North.

It is events and facts such as this
that have a habit of deciding the fate
of elections, and Grey North is in
the state of flux where anything
may happen between now and Feb. 5.

ish policy in Greece has not been in
the best interests of the United Nations,” while Arts & Science men
Farquhar, Mingo and Harris supported the negative. Arts & Science
won by the slimest of margins, 25%
to 24%. Sulsky and Harris were
particularly good both in argument
and presentation and drew special
praise from the panel of students
judging the debates.

  
   

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

See Our Pictorial Work for Gifts
Special Rates to Students 24 Hour
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

—

Service
PHONE 36002

* * *

GRADUATING CLASS ELECTS
LIFE EXECUTIVE

Following is the slate of Life

  

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.

Challenger

   
   

Officers elected at a recent Class ’45 Limited

meeting attended by prospective Watches Fresh Fish Specialists
graduates in Arts, Science, Engin
eering, Commerce and Music. HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

These words mean more
than just a good watch—
they promise style plus
performance, plus  outstanding value for your
money.

Hon. President: Dr. George Wilson. |

Life President: Jim McLaren.

Life Secretary: Art Saffron.

Life Treasurer: Julian Bloomer.

Doug. Clark, Alf Pike, Norma
Sherman, Annetta Goodman, Shirley
Lund and Alec MacDonald were
chosen as a committee in charge of
Convocation Week activities. <A
committee was also named to draw
up a class constitution for ratifica
 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
*

      
  

Are you wearing a
Challenger?

    
  

HALIFAX Neva Scotia

 

Henry Birks & Sons

  

   

    

tion by the Students’ Council. Com- LIMITHD THE

prising this group are Alan Blak- ; 7
eney (Law), Alec MacDonald (Sci- Pie aes Jeweller Rosedale Nurseries
ence), Peter Payzant (Engineering), merican Gem Society HALIFAX DARTMOUTH
Alf Pike (Commerce), and Carl Lit- 881 St. Wyse Rd.

     
    
 

Barrington St., Halifax, ‘N.S. 111 Spring Garden Rd

tle (Music). Both committees will |
act in conjunction with the Life |

|

   

 
 

 

~~

 

January 26, 1945

 

GAZETTE FEATURES

 

 

Rabbit Joins In

Peter ‘Rumour

Celebration of Arts, Seance Week;

Writes Letter To Gazoot Addle-Pate

Peter Rabbitt was worried as he have a motor ear accident in which
scampered over Stodgy Campus. | a minister reads a moral triumph,
The merry little East Winds (laden| a lawyer reads negligence, a doctor
with an aroma of fish from Dart-| fees for injuries repaired. But only
mouth) whispered in his ear—Be/| the gentle Arts and Science student,
careful, Peter. And he was extra| sweet harbinger of all that is good
careful. It was his first visit to, in the world, breaks down and cries
college, and his mother had warned! at the sight, adding humanity to a
him before he had begun his quest | tough-minded world”.
for higher education that college was| With this Peter wholly agreed.
a pit-fall for the unwary. Twice| The people around him he saw as
that morning he had been mistaken] gentle as himself. Of course, the
by co-eds for Newfoundland seal,| Engineering clique haunting the uponce in a spirit of misguided en-| tairs of the Seience building was a
thusiasm, the other time when he| little tough on him, and almost had
had been drenched with ink by a him in a stew, but he counted that
Gazoot writer who had made a mis-| aS a mere tribulation for a rumour
take about the students’ common| rabbit who might, at any time, exroom, and had wasted a lot of ink} pect to have Dr. Stunnely down on

nning after a rabbit of a rumour.| his head for false rumourizing.

That exactly was what he was. Right now all was peace and
A rabbit of rumour. His personality | quiet as he contemplated the scene
was to the campus what Gremlins| of gentle followers of the Arts,
were to planes. Responsible for| Sciences. Finally, he could contain
every error, he was the punching- himself no longer. He sat down and
bag of misplaced fate. Even Rufus| Wrote a letter to the editor of the
Rayne, the genial hen-shaped cus- Gazoot, Chump McGosh, who was 80
todian of the gymnasium, would put| Pleased that a rabbit would write
his errors on the rabbit, if and when | him a letter, he wrote an editorial,
he made them. headlined: “Have You The Gumption

Peter collected the fuss about the| Of A Rabbit?” in which he implored
Students’ Common Room. It had| others to write letters to the editor.

appeared through reliable sources
close to everything that is worthwhile on the campus that the com- |
mon room was a certainty. Hadn’t
the university authorities (sources
close to...) proclaimed it as such?
And when it was found out that
even closer sources had got close, |
and there was to be no students
common room in the Glumnasium,
had anyone made an error. Yes.
But who?

“It’s that domn rabbit again,
getting in here and using our
typewriters”, said the Gazoot.

Peter’s Epistle
The letter follows:

“JT have recently made my rounds
of the Arts and Science life at this
University, and I would like to give

are worth.
with the state Dalhousie University
is in. It is a source of pleasure to
know that English professors speak
English, that Mathematics is still
earried on. The diminution in the
interest of Classics has however,
pained me exceedingly.

‘When I attended University, it

Commendable, un d erstandable. | 25 counted as a course every young
W hat ds modern life without a | rabbit should have. Philosophy
whipping-boy ? was also a necessary must. Indeed,

We only gave you that bit of information for background reference.
We do not attempt to set Peter up
as a second “Harvey” of Broadway
fame.

After Peter had reached the Arts
and Science buildings, he paused at
a point directly between the two to
see a) reunion of brotherly love, as
Arts and Seance got together for|I find only two types, wolves and
their annual week of prayer, whose} bona fide scholars, the former of
theme was: “How Lucky the World | which frightened me to death on the
is with us — how unfortunate it mere mention of the name, but which
would be without.” I now am accustomed to. My per
Harbinger of Humanity sonal opinion of wolves is that few

Which recalled to Peter a story! Dullhousie boasters of such title
he had once read in the Gazoot on| know what they are talking about.
Arts and Seance, which said: “You| A more anaemic crowd I have never

it was from this course that a true
rabbit’s personality is derived, the
insatiable curiosity which has devoured much of my race. In Science,
I am deeply interested in Chemistry

. and Biology, without an adequate knowledge of which our race,
alas, would soon perish.

“As for the students themselves,

 

Where the
College Men Congregate

Specialists in Smart Clothes for Young Men.

*

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

112 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may be
assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee,

Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and
Dried Fruits.

    
  
  

    
 

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

  
  

OT
TT

|

VOX DISCIPULI—

/were registered in Arts and twelve |
you my impressions for what they | ;,

Generally, I am pleased | when questioned as to why they had

BEAUTIFUL GIRL NO. 1—JEAN NICOL

 

LET’S
to waste words, was born in Toronto, came to Dalhousie in 1943, and is at | from the Studley campus,

; GET PHILOSOPHIC—Pretty Jean Nicol, who is shown abawe, |

present a junior.
and Philosophy, and she hopes to study at Queen’s Unievrsity. Vital
statistics for the engineers: height, 5 feet 5 and a quarter inches; weight,
123 pounds; hair, brunette. She has performed in two Glee Club plays—
one a drama and the other comedy. Both, she admitted, spiked with a
bit of success. Other than that, she has no opinion on the subject, is no
songstress (she says), has no illusions about glamour girls. That’s what
comes of being philosophic.

SOCIETY CELEBRATES

(Continued from page 1)

seems now, by the first World War.
Many of the debating enthusiasts
withdrew from college and enlisted
in the Empire’s forces. The others
had their traditional discussion hour
forcefully taken over by the C.O.
T.C. Despite the frantic attempts
of the student to maintain it, debating, as their predecessors had
known it, died a permanent death.
And with it died the spirit of the
Arts & Science Society.

Since that time»there have been
several efforts to revive it, chiefly
the grand re-organization of 1988,
with some success. The constitution was revised and amended, and
the Society itself was placed on the
list of active student organizations.

Having overcome exterior opposition, the Society has still to contend
with the lack of interest among its
own members. But in this field too,

it has recently made considerable
world, so you commerce students f ;

, : ie | progress, and shows definite promise
will have little competition. :

‘of making more. This year marks
~~ | its eighty-first birthday. May it also
met. As for the glitter of paint on| mark its complete rejuvenation.
the co-eds, I find it very superficial |
and not entirely amusing. Beneath)
that exterior there often beats a|
most shallow heart, as the tramp | upon a time. It was the eleventh
said about his old pair of pants. |day of the eleventh month. My. boy

“May I wish you the best of suc- | ee) 11 re aa ve Pie “9
cess in your studies, and do not be| oS oy 44 arrived on the

court at 11 minutes past 11 Later
misled by certain newspapers which | jn the day I found out that there
consider you unessential.

You may| were 11 horses to run in the big

(Continued from page one)

twenty students questioned eight | |

Science. The greater number
chosen their particular faculty, |
answered, “because I like that sort |
of work” or, “because that is the |
only sort of study that I can do”.
One student replied, “because it was
suggested to me by the University.”
Replies to the question “What do
you plan to do after receiving your
degree?” included teaching,  research, nursing, Law, and the Foreign office. Most Science students
plan to go on with Research in the
subject they like most, while most |
Art’s students plan to enter Law |
school or to teach. It is interesting
to note that of the twenty questioned, sixteen plan to be married as
soon as possible! Not one of these
students plan to enter the business

 

 

 

He was talking of coincidences.
“The most amazing thing happen
 

be . . . but some of you will lead| race, so I backed the eleventh horse
on the card”.

the Gennes of tomorrow—by the | “My, my! And it won?”

nose” |

“No, it came in eleventh’’.

.

 
 
    
 
 
      
  
    
     
     
  
    
     
     
   
   

Her interest, she says, is to continue a career in English |

 

Gleanings from
ARTS—AND SCIENCE

Knowsey hears that drums are
booming on Lucknow Street, what
say Doug? Did Kay really go out
with Drummy two nights in a row?
We also hear that these Irish troubadors from the drafting room can
really make the Cole-man swoon,
Our friend “the fiend” certainly had
a time at Debert, after spending two
days up there writing Amy, he
finally finished the letter as the train
was pulling into the station and
rushed the letter to the mail box,
Nice work “Gif”. Who was the
Sheik who was so anxious to get to
Acadia last week? The Dartmouth
girls certainly stole a heart or two

*  * *

Last week fifteen Arts students
were contemplating a trip to the
Hall, probably hoping that they

“would receive as good treatment as

ee

the fifteen Subbies who wandered
down to the bak door of the Hall,
Things certainly look Black down at
the Hall, at least Knowsey hears
from a freshette that Black is a very
becoming color. It seems that the
flame of romance between Art and
Patsy is really going great guns. I
reckon our President knows how to
handle women. Our vice-president
seems a trifle mixed up, tell us Connie can’t you make up your mind?
There is no need to speak of our
treasurer’s love affair.

* ** *

It seems that a beautiful romance
developed during exams. It sure is
gool to see A-Feron stepping out,
especially with as popular a girl as
Anne Parker... Coming around to the

' Science end of our issue we wonder

why Boby Kimball has been so quiet
lately, could be he is pining for Miss
Buffalo Bill Coady at the Hall.

* %*£

We hear that Zen has had a bit
of trouble with Fay, why else would
he be singing “Smoke gets in your
Eyes”. Knowsey finds that Col.
Mongo’s young son, William is planning to go to the Boilermakers’
Brawl. Where does our manager
|meet these girls, heavens what his
past would reveal? Zelda seems to

/

ed to me at Leopardstown once; think quite a lot of Don, my good
ness how these Scots keep together.
ae

Knowsey hears that two little ones
are going to the dance this Friday.
Perhaps we have a budding romance
between Myrd and Nancy or is
Nancy still true to her heart throb
of last Saturday night? Anyway,

 

Have a “Coke” =

eS
=~

NENT

  

Or rhea g the younger set t happy at ee

icebox at home is just the place for frosty bottles of “Coke”,
Your family and all their friends will welcome it. At home
and away from home, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that re
freshes—has become a symbol of gracious hospitality.
The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

$
7
é of
= 1 A,
J "
- IAAL
Vey
oy \ chi
7
- $ PF
A ,
/ pegs yoke
a av
¥ a
Be . A
a ; '
es ,
ss ¢ of S
hae
f tu
: / co
=2 f tag ;
/ ‘ ¥
7
, 1A
7 (
Z ee
$ (
.
5 ‘I

 

   
  
  

Hot records and cold ““Coke’’... and the gang is happy. Your CEG Kal

On with the cance,

iT

CC:

Vi

 

I es “Coke"= Coca-Cola
Li to eae fren names

seems

 

        
         
     
     
 

 

 

  

they say that good shinee eased: ‘in
small packages. Students in French
I had quite a time at the Saturday
morning class according to reports n
that have been circulated, five boys — cs
and five girls and no professor —
around, more fun eh! tH

an

  

   
  

‘

ee Ne

  

WELL, SEE WALLACE”
“IF YOU WANT TO SEE

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS —

Phone 3-6881

 

  

ORPHEUS

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“BIG BONANZA”
“SHERIFF OF SUNDOWN” —

  
     

Mondayy, Tuesday, Wednesday —
“UNWRITTEN CODE
“COWBODY OF LONESOME >
RIVER”


GARRICK
Saturday, Monday, Tuesday

“DAYS OF GLORY”

Tomara Toumanova
Gregory Peck

4 Ve

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

“LOVE AFFAIR”

“THE DEVIL AND
DANIEL WEBSTER”

 

CAPITOL

Thursday, Friday, Saturday
“Trish Eyes
Are Smiling”

JUNE HAVER fa
DICK HAMES AB (Pais,

 

 

————

 

 

: hind
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday ;

y i ee
‘American i
Romance” me

| Da
BRIAN DONLEVY i

*

ONE WEEK
Starting
Saturday, Jan. 27

      
     
   

“ABROAD WITH| _
TWO YANK oN

  

  

    
 
  

  
  

  
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
    
  
    
    

 

es.
: 
a only

aes

et Pe .

'€

 

7
¢
» 4

a
4

- flared more than once.

"SIDELINES

by FARQUHAR and DUNLOP

 

— >

‘ Bt For the first time in thirteen
_--——s years the tables were turned, when
_ the Dalhousie hockey team whipped
a strong St. Mary’s squad last
_ Friday. The competition was keen

and the tension high. Throughout

the game one could notice that the

rivalry was strong, and tempers
After observing the hockey team we feel
that it will take any other collegiate
team in the Maritimes with the possible exception of St. F. X., whose
team has been going great guns in
the senior A. P. C. league.

‘Rumors have it that Tech is
icing a powerful team this season
featuring a goalie, Ross, of note.
Observers felt that the Dal weak
spot was in the goal; after Harold
Giffen’s exhibition of rubber stopping on Friday last, all worries
were dispelled. The big lad, playing hia first real organized
hockey, was a virtual ball of fire
and contributed largely to the
team’s victory. .Lately, the ice
squad has received a heavy blow;
it was learned that R. Cunningham, the backbone of the defence
will be lost to the team in Intercollegiate competition since he
holds a degree from a, recognized
university.

On the basketball front, the Tigers
are in the midst of a three game
losing streak, two of these in close
games at Debert and the other on
Wednesday against Kings. The loss
of Adam Smith who sustained leg
injuries in a recent accident is a
severe one. Adam was a hardworking forward who got his share
of points and his fighting spirit is
missed.

Items: Interfaculty basketball
and hockey are due to get underway next week. The hockey games
are to be played on the Kings
rink on Fridays and Wednesdays.
A badminton tournament against
Kings is planned shortly. Congratulations to the Girls’ Basketball teams who came on the floor
‘Tuesday evening with two wins to
start their competition in the
league in fine style.

Incomparable
Quality !

You can count on the type
of footwear you buy at
SHANE’S SHOE STORE
where we specialize “in
HIGH GRADE SHOES
ONLY. Select from Canada’s Best... “HARTT”
.. . “SCOTT- McHALE”
“SLATER” and “RITCHIE”,

Shane’s Shoe Store

397 BARRINGTON ST.
HALIFAX

 

ALWAYS PURE

FARMERS’

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

‘
ie.
—

 

Hoopsters Lose
Twice At Debert

Last week-end the Dalhousie Basketball Tigers journeyed to the Debert Army and Air Force camp to
play two games on Friday and Saturday nights. Sad to relate, the
team returned to the campus with
no wins and two losses.

On Friday evening, the Debert
Army furnished the opposition and

it proved very potent, beating the)

youthful Tigers 48—31.
was played on a concrete floored
drill hall which slowed the Dal -boys
considerably; our players were more
worried about taking a header on

the hard concrete than _ scoring
baskets.
However, it was a close battle

even though the score indicates a
great advantage of the Army boys.
Play in the first half was slow and
the scoring was low. In the second
canto play speeded up and with Alf
Cunningham leading the parade, the
Dalsters forced the Army lads most
of the way. Cunningham led the
Dal scorers with 11 points, while
Captain Carl Giffen followed closely with 6 markers. The Dal Tigers
were at a disadvantage under the
basket, since the superior height of
the Army team repeatedly snatched
rebounds from each basket.

Lineup: Cunningham, 11; Dunlop,
4; Farquhar, 4; Smith, Cooley, Giffen, 6; Clarke, 2; Robinson, Pope.

*e %* Bg

On Saturday evening on a spacious
gymnasium not unlike our own floor,
the Bengals met the Debert Air
Force team and bowed to them by
a score of 29—20. This was a fast
game which was a feature of much
poor shooting throughout. Adam
Smith was high-point man for the
Tigers with 8 points. At the end
of the first half the seore was 7—6
in faver of the collegians. During
the second half the pace was _ increased and the Air Force put the
pressure on their younger oppon
ents, sinking many long shots and
checking the Tigers to a standstill.
Line-up: Cunningham, 2; Dunlop,
4; Farquhar, Smith, 8; Cooley, GifPope, 1.

fen, Clarke, Robinson, 2;

 

After Any Show

Or...

Before Any Meal

Think of ...
The

Green Lantern

         
 

MILK

 

  
 

     
     
 
 

The game |

 

—— ee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

|
|
|

|

ARTHUR HARTLING
Arts and Science President

 

Len Graves, a defence man on last
year’s hockey team. Len starred as
flying wing this year and back
with the hockey team this fall.

is

Kay Cox, a steady basketball and
badminton player of both this year
and last year, Kay has shown great
athletic ability since coming to Dal.

Bob MacDonald: Last year intermediate football and senior hockey.
This year Bobby was tail-up on the
senior team and was high scorer ’till
injured in mid-season. He is back
with the hockey team, and promises to do wonders on the blades.

Norma Sherman, minute performer on last year’s and this year’s
basketball squad and a keen badminton player. Norma does not
score much at basketball but sets up
plays for other forwards. This girl
certainly deserves credit for her fine
work.

k *

Ral Feanny, all-round athlete,
member of this year’s rugger and
soccer team, member of last year’s
swimming team. Ralston will be
swimming again this year and is a
renowned boxer as well as a track
and field star. He also studies.

ps

Art Hartling, versatile president
of the Arts & Science society, has
been definitely active in sports as
well as student activities. During
his stay at Dalhousie, Art has played senior football and has played
both tennis and badminton. Not

only that, but Art is a first-class |

boxer and has arranged the inter- |
faculty boxing which will get duder |
Way soon.

SS a

Jerry Naugler
Semi-Formal
Seniors Free

ee 5 A a ad

Arts and Science Athletes

 

Junior Prom

DALHOUSIE GYMNASIUM
FRIDAY, FERRUARY 16th

Tickets on Sale Monday, January 29th,
from Junior Students

RTS AND SCIENCE PERSONNEL ACTIVE IN SPORTS

     

Virginia Phillips, starry badminton player and manager and aj;

steady performer on the second. Dal Loses To Kings

Girls’ Basketball team.
gl bake | Dal Tigers suffered their second
'defeat at the hands of the Kings
Carl Giffin, last year a steady) men, when they bowed 40-36 afiter
basketball guard and this year a/4 hard-fought battle on Wednesday
star on*the three-quarter line as/ afternoon.
well as a stellar performer on this| Kings were the first to register
year’s hoop squad. ‘in the score column. Play went
| rather evenly in the first half with
‘Dal having a slighted edge in the
Anne Saunderson, a stellar ground play to lead 26-24 at the end of the
hockey player in her ‘first year at | {"ame.
Dal, Anne has now turned to bas- Kings came back strong in the
ketball and last year was high scorer second canto and used their superfor her team. She is also playing ior height to good advantage. By
this year and promises to be just as| the time the Bengals found themrood. selves the Kings quintet had a mar|'gin of four points, and the Tigers,
endeavouring to overcome the
lead, rushed their plays and missed

nM

 

       

|'many shots. It was basket for
| basket for awhile, and toward the

   

 

 
    
     
   
     
  
 
   
   

end, Dal put on the pressure which
brought to a thrilling finish with
Kings leading 40-36.

Cunningham with 12 points, and
‘Cooley with 8 points

You Win The
Trophy, Sephic

played good
games for Dal, while Pope and his
fast breaks brought the ball to the
Kings many a time, with Dal failing to register the necessary points.
Line-up: Cunningham, 12; Dunlop,
6; Farquhar, 6; Robinson; Pope;
Giffen, 4; V. Clarke; Cooley, 8.

Dal Girls’ Teams Win
In Hoop Games

On Tuesday evening of this week
| . 2 . .
al first games of the girls’ basket
This loving cup conveys
our praise, for finding

us a treasure.

Its stronger point prevents
delays, its smoothness

ball city league were held in the
| Dal gym. In the first game of the
| evening Dal’s first team earned a
36-13 victory over the Grads of Q.

¥{ S ¢ ~~ .
a. pleasure. K.H. The stars of this game were
ira uarantees Q
O guaré o Ann Saunderson and Patsy Jones

please, and all its

claims we've tested.

It does the work with
greater ease, and

sends us home more rested.
5c. each—less in quantities

who garnered 11 and i8 points respectively. The small but mighty
Laurie Bisset played an excellent
game as centre guard,

The second game, between the
Certified with a money-back C bce) Weta .
guarantee. ommercials of Q.E.H. and Dal’s

second team, was much closer, with
the Dal team out
with a 30-21. win.
line, J. Hart, Kay Cox and V. Phil
coming

(Super Bonded) I:

}

r

re
fl |

f

beard

   

PENCILS ie
ARE GUARANTEED |

and His Twelve-Piece Orchestra

  
    

No Corsages
Refreshments

WS : en

i ee ee ae

' years,

on top|
Dal’s forward |

January 26, 1945

 

Dal Wallops
St. Mary’s 7-3

For the first time in thirteen
a Dalhousie hockey squad
overpowered St. Mary’s College
team. The teams played straight
through for an hour without rest,

but the pace was torrid all the way.

Dal was superior both on the defensive and offensive, only poor
refereeing, and on two occasions,

sloppy clearing in front of the net,
prevented the margin from being
greater for Dal’s standard bearers.

Outstanding point-getters for Dal
were Currie, with three goals and
one assist; Blakeney with three
goals, and Potechin play-maker for
four counters. The other points
were garnered by LeBlanc, with one
goal; Bob MacDonald with two
sists and Gord Simon with one
sist. On the offence Dal used two
lines with alternates, due to the absence of MacKelvie, injured
viously. The line of Currie, Simon
and MacDonald carried the attack in
the first part of the game; Currie
scoring Dal’s first
Throughout the game Simon gave a
beautiful exhibition of stickhandling,
setting up his wings on numerous
occasions. The junior Central line
of Blakeney, LeBlanc and Potechin
starred in the latter half of the
game, scoring four goals and miss
as~

as
pre
three goals.

ing, by narrow margins, three or
four more.

The defence played a strong game.
R. Cunningham, Graves and Wade
cleared nicely except for one or two
lapses, and showed some real bodychecking, which earned the
of several high-flying
forwards.

respect
St. Mary’s

H. Giffen, in goals, after a shaky
start, settled own to play excellent,
even at times, spectacular hockey,
and was a big factor in the Dal victory.

An interesting feature of the battle was Coach Vince Ferguson’s tactics when Dal was shorthanded due
to penalties. He used forwards
Poetchin and LeBlanc on the rearguard having four forwards on ice.
So successful were the tactics that
St. Mary’s had only one clear shot
during three Dal penalties, and Dal
scored once during the same period.

As a result of the game the Dal
lineup is as follows:

Goal, Giffen; defence, Cunningham, Wade, Graves; forwards: Potechin, Blakeney, LeBlanc, Currie,
Simon, MacDonald, McKelvie, Lightfoot with one of the other forwards
alternating on that line.

 

lips, played very well, Kay Cox being especially
second half.

outstanding in the

 
      
       
     
   

 

 
  

 
       
  

re

Dra eke

 
