  
  
 

 
 

“Today, we aa Liberal socialism in Canada,” said Mayor J. E.
Lloyd of Halifax in his address to
the Round Table Group on Wednesday night in the Arts Building. The
policies, he maintained, of the Lib
— 2 alas
= ==

~~

a’

ally the same. In 1939, prior to the
war, the Liberal Government in
Government in Nova Scotia had already interfered with ‘laissez faire’
capitalism in the province with considerable social legislation, especially by the establishment of succession duties.

- a a ;

"Since 1989 it has become more
and more eyident that the policies
" _ of the Federal Liberal Government
, have tended towards the left. The
ia unemployment Insurance Act, enacted d by, an order-in-council under the
War Emergency Act in the early
H rhoathe of the war. provides a lim} ited amount of security for every
worker. The Baby Bonus scheme,
made law during the recent session
of Parliament, is not unlike the Nat tional Dividend promised by the
CCF policy.
\ Not Only in Canada
) And it is not only Canada, said
\ Mayor Lloyd, that is swinging to_ wards the left, but the rest of the
- world as well, especially the re_ occupied countries of Eurdpe.

The speaker, however, criticized

his party for placing too much em
“+ phasis on the word socialism, in- stead of concentrating on specific

_ planks of their particular brand of
socialism. Socialism, he said, is
associated with Karl Marx’s “‘Com
,/  munist Manifesto,” yet there are
‘\\ many varieties of it, extending all

/ the way from the moderate socialistie policies of the present Liberal

i} (Continued on page 2)

~ Moliere Comedy
0 ‘Staged by Siok Club

The Cercle Francais aciivad an
_* unusually large attendance Thurs
day afternoon when the students of
’° the class of French III presented
_ their especially-prepared version of
the celebrated play by Moliére, “Le
- Bourgeois Gentilhomme”, directed

by Mile. Lafeuille.
Jim Saunders played the leading
role of M. Jourdain, the aspiring
bourgeois who hoped to marry his
_ daughter to a marquis.

Miss Prentice took the part of;
Mme. Jourdain; Miss Page, Nicole,
* their servant, and Miss Whelan, Lu
cille, their daughter. Miss Gilroy
was Cléonte, Lucille’s true lover,

 

m

 

 
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 

_ ingenious servant whose plans re
of M. Jourdain’s misdirected designs.
’ s Rene Garrett, co-president of
b, played the role of the Maseo one of M. J wn]

 
    

ruests | aes the meeting.

eral and the CCF parties are basic- ;

OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

Mayor of Halifax Addresses Round Table Group—

f WeH aveSocialism TUS°4” NIGHT AT HEALTH CENTER
Now, Says Lloyd

 

 

Jo Robertson Elected
Next Year’s President

Of Arts and Science

Jo Robertson, Science ’46, was

elected president of the Arts &

Science Socitty for the year 1945-46
at a Society meeting held last Tuesday in the Arts Building. Allan
Myrden was the only other candidate. Other officers elected were:
Vice-President, Bill Mingo; Treasurer, Nancy Wilson; Dramatics
Manager, Roslyn Schaffer; Sports
Manager, Don Harris; Activities
Manager, Mary Macdonald.

~The election for the position of
Society secretary was deferred until
next fall in order that the customary procedure of accepting nominations only from the frosh class might
be earried out.

Council Representatives Nominated
Society candidates for the coming

AMERICA’S OLDEST

HALIFAX, N.S., FEBRUARY 16, 1945

SUCCESSFUL BLOOD CLINIC HELD

Fifty-five Dalhousie students donated blood at the clinic
held Tuesday evening, the 13th, at the Health Center. This
number maintains the average per night at the last November
clinics, but falls somewhat short of the preceding year’s turnout. Chairman Larry Sutherland of the Dalhousie Blood Donor
Committee reported to the Gazette that he expected a somewhat larger attendance at the next clinic, Tuesday, Feb. 20th,

when the Med. students are slated to make their donations.
Pies eal ie Sig Be os
Dance Paties Over $100.

Mr. Sutherland also reported that
over a hundred dollars had been
raised for the Red Cross at the
dance held in the Gym last Friday
night. According to comments
reaching the Gazette office, the
dance itself was a great success,
and was thoroughly enjoyed by’ all
those who attended.

Chaperons for the evening were:
the wife of the Lieut. Governor of
Nov2 Scotia, Mrs. H. E. Kendall;
Dr. and Mrs. Grant; Dr. and Mrs.
Dr. Gosse; Dr. and Mrs. Weld, and
Prof. and Mrs. Bennett. a :

As an added attraction to the
dance, fifteen door prizes were
awarded, one of them going to Mrs.
Kendall. These prizes consisted of
useful merchandise, a pocket book,
a man’s searf, ash trays, and various other gifts canvassed for by a
special committee from the_ local

 

STEPS FROM OFFICE

 

Gazette

STUDENT PUBLICATION

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

 

yooMmam

No. 15

Council Nominates
Martin Sutherland

Two-Man Battle For Presidency

At the Students’ Council meeting held on Sunday, Larry
Sutherland and Fred Martin were nominated as candidates for
the presidency of the Council for the ensuing year.

Mr. Sutherland has had two years’ experience on the
Council, first as Senior representative for Arts and Science and
this year he is holding the office of vice- president. During his
two years on Studley he was very active in student activities
and has retained his interest, though now a second-year Med
student.

Mr. Martin is also a Forrest man, a second-year Law
student. Though he has not had any Council experience, he is
very well known, and active on both campuses.

Don Smith, Allan Blakeney and

e——
Alex Farquhar were nominated to Meds Name Candidates

run for vice-president. F or Council Elections

The Med Society held a meeting
Monday night and the following men
secured nominations to be candidates for Society representatives on
the Students’ Council in the coming
March elections: Ken McLennan,
Jim Frazee, Gordon Sears
Bruce Miller.

A committee of Dave Archibald,
Art Titus, Ed Redmond, Ray Giber
 

 

   

Other business discussed at the
meeting was the awarding of Student Council D’s. It was decided
that the Malcolm Honour Award
committee bring before the Council
names of those deserving a Council
D. The report of the Gym committee was given by the chairman, Alex
Farquhar, and was approved.

Larry Sutherland reported that
aproximately $100 had been cleared

SEE PAGE TWO

   
 
   
    
   

and —

and Miss Brown, Corvielle, Cléonte’s

    

were made at a Society meeting
su ted in the successful frustration |
at the Lord Nelson Hotel on the
twenty-third.

and Mrs. Mercer were

Halifax merchants.

The Gym was very appropriately
decorated for the occasion by Mary
Macdonald and Jo Robertson. Layge
red crosses hung at ordered intervals along the walls provided the
necessary atmosphere, while Joyce
Nicholson, at her Red Cross nurse’s
stall, carried out the serious business of accepting applications from
prospective blood donors.

World’s S.C.M. Holding

Day of Prayer For
Students on Sunday

On Sunday, February 18th, students ali over the world will join in
observing the Universal Day of
Prayer for Students. sponsored by
the World’s Student Christian Fedthe
service will be held in King’s College Chapel at 7:00 p.m. It will be
conducted by students, and this year
be Rev.
a former Dalhousie

Students’ Council elections were appointed, the following students securing the nominations: Senior
Class—Girls: Connie Archibald; Virginia Phillips; boys: Jim Saunders,
Alex Stewart. Junior Class—
Girls: Lois Ratee, Mary Farquhar;
boys: Bill Mingo, Don Harris.
Sophomore Class: Don Kerr and
Zelda McKinnon.

The treasurer, Alex Farquhar,
submitted the financial report for
the year’s activities, boasting a surplus of $113.04. A report on the
Blood Donor campaign currently being carried on over the campus was
read by Bill Mingo, Arts & Science
boys’ representative on the committee in charge. Fifty-five male members of the Society had donated
blood before Christmas while arrangements have been made for a
considerably larger number to at
tend the clinics now beng held,

eration. Here at Dalhousie,

In submitting his report, Alex
Farquhar suggested that some
change be made in the constitution
clarifying the section dealing with
contributions to the Soc: ety treasury
from the individual classes. An
amendment was finally proposed and
passed by which every frosh class
will transfer ten dollars of its funds
to the account of the Society.

the special speaker will
Glynn Firth,
student and a graduate of Pine Hill.
He was the local secretary of the
Dalhousie S. C. M. for two years, and
is known by some of the older students. Always a stimulating and refreshing speaker, he has much to

say to our generation, for while he
is of it, he can still see it wholly
and clearly.

President Art Hartling also made
arrangements for providing the
graduating members with the customary rings.

Engineering Banquet
At Lord Nelson on 23rd

Plans for the Engineers’ banquet

Each year a _ different national
student movement has the opportunity of preparing the order of service, and this year it was composed
by the British S.C.M. In this manner, all students, n> matter what
their nationality or race, can center
their thoughts on the same things.
It is up to us to re-examine our
way of life to see what has brought
on these dismal days, when man is
not able to live at peace with man.
eW have to learn the way to peace,
by mutual trust, by freedom, secur
Tuesday. The banquet will be held

All Society members are advised
to have their appetites properly
whetted in order to do justice to the
large quantities of edibles and potables scheduled to appear and dis
CARLETON STANLEY, for 12
years president of Dalhousie University, whose resignation from the
senior faculty post has been officially announced: No intimation as to
Dr. Stanley’s successor has been
made by the University’s Board of
Governors. It is understood, however, that Dr. Stanley will hold the
reins of office until the end of the

 oueFest academic year.

Junior Class Holding

 

Prom in Gym Tonight

Tonight the Class ’46 will present
the Junior Prom. This year a longstanding tradition is being broken
by holding the dance of the Junior
Class in the Gymnasium rather
than at a hotel.
committee is in charge of making

As a very able

the arrangements it is felt that a
very pleasant and enjoyable evening
will be had by all.

The committee has arranged to
have about thirty tables for the
dancers to sit around in between
It is hoped that this will
help to make the atmosphere more

friendly.

dances.

In the line of music, Jerry Naug
ler and his twelve-piece orchestra
are going to be in attendance. The
decorations will be those of St. Valentine’s day. Refreshments. will
consist of punch and ice-cream with
cake at intermission.

 

ity, and justice for all, by each following the highest ideals—the finest
vision—that he has, by each giving
his loyalty and his life to the one
God of all the world.

This is one opportunity for students to come together with other
students into one fellowship—conscious of the fact that all around the
world at some hour on this day,

. Continued on Page Three

at the Red Cross dance.

Tentative plans for Munroe Day
were given by the chairman of the
committee, Joyce Nicholson. A report was given on the favourable
progress and sale of year books.
D.A.A.C. was granted $50.00 for a
basketball trip to Acadia.

Interns’ voting in Council elections
was discussed. It was decided that
they should be allowed to vote because they hold a Students’ Council
ticket. The question of out-of-town
interns voting was then brought up.
It was decided that they should be
sent ballot forms, return their vote
in a sealed envelope and this envelope be placed directly in the
ballot box.

 

H appenings

son, Don Smith, and Bob Washburn
was appointed to draft the first
known constitution of the Med
Society. A section of this constitution will call for the election of

officers in the spring, rather than
in the fall, as has previously been
the procedure.

Plans were also finalized for the
Med Ball on March 9th, the price of
admission being set at $38.50 per
couple. ]

     
 
   
   

DELTA GAMMA ISSUE

Next week’s issue of The Gazette
will be dedicated to the Delta
Gamma Society and to Sadie
Hawkins Day which falls on the
28th of this month.

at Med School

 

The Medical Society has undergone a reorganization. This year
cannot be other than perhaps the
most successful the society has ever
had. Even without the drawing up
of a new constitution, which took
place enly last Monday, probably
this year were the most successful
in the history of the society. It
may truly be said that the Medical
Society is assuming a new place in
the Jife of medical students at Dal.
This week one must speak in generalities. When all is more settled
one may speak more specifically of
what has been done. The names of
representatives to the Students
Council are listed elsewhere.

Ah, the weighty matters that bear
down upon the oppressed medical
student! Consider the doings of the
great Colquhoun. For instance, how
last Saturday in company of the
fair one he took in a show, and then
a meal, and at 9:00 in the evening,
was observed going into the library
clutching his books close to him,

bowed down with the cares of this
medical world.

It is asked if Upper’s new date has
anything to do with his renewed
love"of sleeping. Another question
deals with Pete’s newly born interest in girls’ basketball at Dal; isn’t
a taxi rather luxurious for taking
her to a mere practice in? If girls’
basketball falls into a slump, we
shall know who to blame.

Ever hear of the anvil corps?
Then go into the Forrest Building on
a Friday afternoon and watch the
operations of Dubinski et al.

About what is Dave Archibald so
sly and secretive these past few
days. There is danger, danger,
danger somewhere when Dave assumes that gestapo look.

At last a wild goose chase that
pays, and pays good money. For all
particuiars see the 3rd year sweepstake managers.

Enough of frivolities. The end of
the year is close. There are nine
weeks before examinations. Nine
weeks are a short time. And so
let’s write an end to this rot.

£ — oe

 
  
  
     
  
 

   
  
 
 
 

   

rr ’
_— di , 8 r 7% fy) :
eo neh

v4 we

e.

February 16,1945

       
 
  
 
 
 

      
 

 
 
    
 

     

Pie : [
AD ey

1

t*

(a5
nf

 
 
  

i

.
’
SU eee . - 1
Ec ei
é ( a it D :
jaa
’

AL

 

Z

 

 
    
 

[Oe alee OFC
) ETTE

    
     

 

 

       
   
    
    
   
    
  

  

   

  

 

 

 

  

   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
   

Mae ue °
a a Ottawa Calling :
gay Ee.
Ser Bie ) Seer (“Inside” News from the Political Front)
%9 “THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA” A CANADIAN UNIVERSITY PRESS FEATURE ‘
_ Bditorial Room, Arts Bldg.: Phone 3-7098 ' By NEIL MacDONALD
ria. . ANYONE CAN WIN
Bitty Editor-in-Chief The by-election in Grey North is now ancient history, and
i JIM McLAREN (4-2236) - A even the interest focussed on it in Ottawa is beginning to die
- Beatures Sports down. The results were something of a shock to all parties:
ie BOB McCLEAVE ALEX ieee to the Liberals because they felt that their candidate had made
mie ey dias _ BLAIR DUNLOP a very strong impression on the electors, to the Progressive ‘
¢ Photography Literary Conservatives because the seat was less than certain, and to
BOE -ERROL McDONALD JOHN HIBBITTS the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation because they
Pirie | Circulation thought that they had developed a much stronger campaign
R "AIKENS ANNETTA GOODMAN | than the event proved.
ie ISABEL WILMOT By-Election Reactions MNP tgs tego
anes Reportorial The by-election reaction among
.L LOMAS LIZ REEVES (C.U.P.) JACK NICHOLSON || the populace of Ottawa was typical Staff Sketches »
[M CAMPBELL ART SAFFRON MARY MacDONALD of the various elements in the city. No. 6
TED SHIELD PAT CREWE JACK SIDEL The. Civil ; be div;
"PON HARRIS BERNIE CREIGHTON BILL KELLY e. Civil Service can be divided in
Came AR Hb many ways, but the most valid S SCHWARTZ and be sure!
Range C/A, Business Manager: FRED MARTIN break-down is that which takes into ay °
Bey 0O ie ea consideration three main categories. |
Ries Fhe bregest group in the Hervice are A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be ”
Nn Lelie the stenographers, typists, and junior 7 i ;
ANE? SR big ‘ L, G clerks; then there is the large num- Sure’. We urge it for your protection that you may be
tercations wit Over NOSTS | ver of “bright young people” who assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee,
% a 2 a _s . neo mea Ne Oe ce Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and n
| a ecessitate esign ation hierarchy of more important execu- ENO rt Dried Fruits.
ROR AMIR il Puy tit | tives. SS :
Ley se Tks * we * x I don’t think that two percent of} ¢ ae ?
Ll iiiaialitic Fields (eres ee etl tenn meee, all We H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.
ae ctive in ucationai an ournalistic Fie wh i Ce a PROFESSOR A. K. GRIFFIN, of a ie ee
) l way 7-election went. 4 u . ida’s Oldest C 2 1 pice Use
>. Carleton Stanley has stepped down from the presidency of hay see ane to a Mas "| the Department of Classics, was Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice itouse ‘
_ Dalhousie. His resignation “due to a fundamental divergence | charges, had been fully aired in both a ene ae oh Founded in Halifax in 1841
in viewpoint with the governing board of the university,” WAS | jocal papers, this group had not be- se i ss reid a ra
_ officially disclosed to The Gazette last Monday night prior to its |..ome interested, a fact which might Sa essa et Paci
publication in the local press. He has held the senior TACUITY 4.5 attributed to the length of the vi ‘asain See see aa yh
eae at Dalhousie for some 12 years. campaign as much as anything else. M.A. degree. He spent the next ‘
__ Distinguished Academic Career, ing to numerous publications, both Disappointed in CCF four years in the army with the
di Hh, - Dr. Stanley’s academic career was. in Canada and the United Kingdom. The bright young men and women] Royal Artillery serving in France
a ‘distinguished one. In 1913 he From 1913-16 he was on the editor | who do most of the spade work in| and Northern Russia. On leaving
graduated from the University of , ial staff of the Manchester Guard-} the initiating and implementing of] the Army he went to Oxford and in
| Toronto, majoring in Classics et ian. policy, were interested as a group] 1921 graduated in Arts and Litera- : (a
iy winning two gold medals for schol- : iberal Arts in the by-election. Most of them did] ture. He spent the next two years ; ‘ , {
nh astic excellence. Pursuing his stud- rere not expect the Progressive Conserv-| in Poland with the American Y.M. Delicious with milk as a bedtime sna ‘

During pis tenure of office at Dal‘housie he achieved national promi inenee as an ardent exponent of the

\Pnae

"ies in England, he received both a
ss Bachelor’s and Master’s degree i

       

C.A. doing relief work. He then
returned to Canada and joined the

ative candidate to win and they felt
that the CCF would have made a

 

    

 

crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

AARVENS

eis A+ x d. Hon- , f ‘ . hh ere ) . i
ie Arts xi f be sa Naar oa ia Tiheral’ Arte and a: vigorous sup much better showing. oer i rain teaching facul
Beth ee sa sas -orsities fol-| Porter of the Humanities. A sin- 21 Percent Undecided | 50h beak atti naan dean el ohana
oo meennen ane et ees cere idealist, his address to the| Looking over election prospects, a | *

  
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
  
     
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

uy a _ Jowed respectively in 1933 and 1935.
Im the latter year, the University of
Colorado awarded him an Honorary
Doctorate in Literature.
_-.. Prior to his appointment to the)
- Dalhousie presidency, Dr. Stanley |
BB nat verved successively as Professor of “The study of how to live the good
te rte Greek and Assistant to the Principal life and how to spread the good life
ates of McGill University in Montreal. | among one’s fellows, lies close to
\ © Author of two books, “The Roots the focal purpose of education,” Dr.
i \ ln of the Tree,” and ‘Matthew Arn- Stanley declared. “No one has ever
bie, Ms old,” he was also active, and still is, been able to live the good life with“4m the field of journalism, contribut-' out living the good life for others.”

Student Body last Fall was _ noteworthy in its significance. He
urged students to rebel against the
‘ienorance and apathy” prevalent in
higher educational circles today.

IT

 

 

 

is) “The destruction of confidence,”

ts said Lloyd, “‘is the least recognized
evil of our day. We have to be
positive in putting those things into
i of Soviet Russia. the machinery of government which
ea _. Fascism is the product of monop-| will not destroy confidence in demo- olistic capitalism, and it is not im-| cratic principles. Ideals are very
+ possible, Mayor Lloyd warned, for) hard to achieve in politics, but it is
ne such a development under the pres-| the striving to achieve them that

ent Canadian system. counts.”

_ WE HAVE SOCIALISM - 
(Continued from page one)

 

pi _ government to the extreme practices

eo
‘

 

 

— | Dalhousie University:
| rales i} u ! Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.

_ Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

| Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern

Grad “rgy andl Sociied  wenipiitig,” lead degree

Graduate Courses of recognized s ing, leading to de s
of M.A., M.Sc. 7 * r

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties

Course in Public Administration

‘Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses.

The Prefessional Faculties
ae
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year,
_. in the B.Se. course, about $190 a year.
~ Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women. .
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

*

total of 34 percent of the electors | crease of almost 20 percent from
(according to a recent nationwide | previous figures.

poll) do not support any of the three | It will be this doubtful group, this
major parties. Twenty-on2 percent , 21 percent which will decide the out
are still sitting on the fence, an in- come of the next election.

 

—

An Eighteenth Century Vignette

Will Wimble was tired, very, very tired—so tired in fact that he felt
that he simply could not drag his wary, foppish carcass to dear Lady
Trimblewood’s public breakfast entertainment — even, demmit, even if
Cynthia Ringsby were there, (and Will knew very well that delightful
wench would not miss such an exquisite affair.)

Leaning back in his elbow-chair, Will gazed vacantly through the blue
haze about him and sipped his steaming coffee. The “Persian” was a fine
coffee-house—old Colonel Archgate had said so, and if any man had ever
seen good coffee-houses the Colonel had seen ’em. Will could even
remember the Colonel’s exact words, “A dem fine house, Wimble, (the
Colonel always called Will by his surname after the military custom.
Will had once turned out with the Militia, and had suffered an embarrassment when a careless fellow-militiaman shot off his ramrod, which very
nearly removed half of the officer complement and frustrated Will’s
martial ambitions) “a dem fine house, best coffee house I ever laid eyes
on, demmit.”

The bell over the street door tinkled and Will swung his bleary eyes
in that direction, hoping to see the saucy post-boy rush in with the latest
newspapers. Will recalled that his name most certainly would appear in
the town gossip. He had been late at Lady Frothingham’s the previous
night, and at Lady Dukesbury’s two nights previous, two of the most
brilliant and gay assemblies of the year. At both he had ben surpassingly
witty and charming, tossing off ‘bon mots’ and extemporaneous epigrams
(culled from aging magazines) as if he were the very personification of
wit. Now like many another periwigged, lace-coated young fop, he
sprawled in a coffee-house elbow chair waiting for the post to arrive with
the latest newspapers wherein he might find a mention of his name.

 

The post-boy was late. In all probability he was at that very moment
delivering up His Majesty’s Mail to a masked highwayman, dressed in
a riding cloak and armed with a huge brace of pistols. Usually the
post-boy had the last laugh however. Master highwayman was often
quickly caught and after a sure, quick trial, was publicly hanged at Tyburn
before large and enthusiastic crowds.

Whilt he waited, Will begged a pipe of Capt. Weekley’s best
Virginia, and between sips and puffs reflected on what he should do
during that afternoon. Were he back at Oxford, that delightful chambermaid should have made such a problem impossible. There was of course
the Rhinoceros, the first in London since 1685, who so amused the ladies
when his sides were rubbed with straw. There was too, the lion-boy
whose mother had been frightened by the old lion in the Tower, and the
strange sea monster lately taken from the sea near Yarmouth. Finally
Will decided to stroll to Ranelagh Gardens, where he hoped to take
advantage of the new town taste for hoop-petticoats, or if things went
poorly there, to Drury-Lane to see that orange-girl lately turned actress,
then back to his cheap room to powder his wig anew, freshen his lace,
sweeten his breath, and so ready himself for Lady Gresham’s great
assembly of that evening, for which he had got by memory fragments of
Horace and tags from Prior.

Me would surely be mentioned in the newspapers of the following
day, which he would scan with bleary eyes, while he sat very, very tired
over coffee and Capt. Weekley’s best, at the “Persian” in the morning.

A 1 Wee,

 

FARMERS

MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*

 

YOUR SUITS

Wh

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER

en they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish

lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
~~send what you have to Cousins often.

Crsins=

 
       
 
    
 

  
   
    

 
 

 
 

ee co saga A Pritten this ae by Gazoot Editor, J. Cricket
“MeGosh. Big McCleak not Guilty.)

 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  

re

oa

 

 

  
  
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
     
     
   
   
     
 
  
     
       
     
 
 
    
 

Mimi. Maddona,
_ throb of the blond Gazooteer.

San patas Rayne looked up from an Anguish 2 lecture as the
| Sikes of trampling hoofs and brass bands came ever closer.
_ “Hippenwallyhaipnuts!!” he explained in his native Burmese
and, pets the entrance of Froggy Swallow and Bleary HinterAe r ~ land, prussydental candidates for the Consul. ‘Must be an elec_ tion rally,” mused Rayne, taking refuge behind a bunsen burner.

‘Dangling from > an improvised
"rope ladder near the ceiling, Gazoot |
Vechiable BE. Windsor Seuta is record
ing the scene for posterity. What

a spectacle! What color! What

-. pageantry! Suddenly wild, fanatical
screams of exultation sweep the hall

as Consul aspirant Elixir Disontram,

idol of the booby-soxers, is borne in

on the padded shoulders of diminuitive “Seorchy” Orayweight. “Elixir
for Vice-Prexie! screams comely
long-time heart
* %*+* *

Gazoot-knitted Sweater
Distantram is appropriately clothed for the occasion sporting gold and
black dungarees and a giant Gold

~ “2D” skewered to his left temple. His

turtle-neck sweater, woven from
Gazoot Sport pages, exploits his
achievements in the athletic and
journalistic fields. ,

Igeandering along with the procession is colorful Wah Lee Mungo,
Mongolian exchange student. As
Distrantram’s campaign manager

and confidant, Wah Lee is focusing

attention on the “Chief’s” Gazootknitted sweater. “Just examine that
headline,” he implores in faultless
English (China’s educational  system is truly remarquable ) he points
to Elixir’s collar-bone and a dramatic
head which reads: “Fighting Tigers
Trounced by Jeepmen.”

magnificent Li tt BO ALERT he

sereams. “And in 36 Sandsurf type,| wa)jlyhalpnuts,” he said .

so + Scuta Plowiietes bok
seein Gala Election Rally;

eae lowed the proceedings in a state of

 

. 1 ,
Fi ia au
ns \
ee : Jay
tal i Ne a) ry
hy ay >i i :
La ial
;
Death |
i
r)

;Mungo ) Campaign

  

At least one of the defeated basketball teams remained happy after
the unfortunate game at Acadia.
The players tell Knowsey that at
9:15, when the game was over, they
saw Alf leave the gym with Newt
and he was not seen by them until
11 of the same night. What were
you doing Lark? Aside from that,
however, we hear that the boys remained true to their Shirreff Hall
brides, with the exception of Dunlop who got the new Math. Instructress mixed up with a girl he met on
the football trip. Boy can he pick
them!

  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 

mirth with a pre-arranged “quickie”.
“You see this poor little dissected
froggy,” he gloats evily ... “Well,
I know another ‘Froggy’ who won’t
feel much better when I’m through
with him ... Ha, ha, ha!”

ee

    
   
      
     
   
     
     
     
         
       
     
   
       
       
       
      
      

News-hawk Killed

Then stark tragedy strikes. So
laugh-provoking was Bleary’s caustic witticism that poor old newshawk E. Windsor Scuta falls from
his precarious perch and plummets
to terra firma.

“Dead, of course,” grunts Hinterland, summoning a group of Phi
Rhoites into hasty conference.

‘Remove the body as per syllabus!
Understand ?”

“Roger, chief!”

Looks as if the rally will break up
as assembled orchestras break into
a mournful dirge to the deceased:—
“Ror He Was a Jolly Good Fellow.”
Swallowites file out en masse and

* ote x

We wonder if our Law candidate
for the presidency of the Students’
Council has received any confirmation about the Sadie Hawkins Dance
yet. According to latest word from
Law School young Fred has been
dreamily reminiscing through all his
classes. Law students have been
wondering about their newcomer,

Jickman. Is he a bachelor or does
he meet his women on the sly?
Maybe he and Allen Blakeney are
working on the situation by combining their mutual talents.

Froggy sobs:—‘What a pity about UR ene.

Seuta. He was so young, sO talent- Knowsey hears that since Fay and
ed . . and, besides, he promised me} Zen have drifted apart, Fay has
a vote.”

won the admiration of quite a few
of the Med boys. Comments heard
from the Meds were: “Boy can she
Dance?

Speaking about Zen, Knowsey is
reminded of some wild betting by
this young fellow in regards to
some milkshakes. It just goes: to
prove that the weaker sex is not so
weak after all, eh Nancy! The erstwhile editor of this illustrious edit
Wah Lee Mungo scampers away
excitedly to figure out a new lay-out
for the Gazoot’s Nausea Page.

x £ &

Hippenwallyhalpnuts
Rufus Rayne from Rangoon fol
“Hippen. “and to

bewildered amazement.

listeners.

too! Anyone who can write such a’ think that I used to comiplakn about
head in Sandsurf type deserves your Dullowsey college spirit. Why it’s
yote. Back Disantram!” uncanny, unbelievable!” But, hold

Meanwhile Froggy Swailow and| on, what’s this No, no, it can’t. be!
Bleary Hinterland, mounted on turn-| But there it is in the Gazoot, his
table rostrums, are haranguing their| own death notice (just above a fullSwallow, flanked by un-! page advertisement of Pink River
derlings Ailing Lackey and Tim) Cereal). “In Memoriam to Rufus
Fanny is trying to win the support} Rayne,” it reads . . . “Wherever he
of Buttonmeadow campus. went, sunshine followed Rayne...”

Froggy is striving to prove that| “Ye gods, no, I’m alive, not dead,”
if an “invitee” falls off a gang plank | Rufus screamed hysterically. “It’s
he cannot legally claim reparations] that crazy Mungo again. He’s got
from the gang-plank owner. me mixed up with E. Windsor

ion seems to have everything under
control. At least Liz says that he
is now running a close second to
Meakin. Congratulations Jim, better late than never.

BS 6 aK j

Through thick and thin of love’s |
strife it is good to cast envious eyes |
on the happiness of those who are
making a go of this thing called
love. Bouquets to Steve and Margot, Farq. and Mary, Art and Ratsy,
“Stinky” and Viv, Art and Jessie,
Kel and Elsie, Doug. and Kay, and

“Perhaps so,” interrupts Engineer | Scuta!”
savant, Murdock Wetmeadow, a
student of the Scriptures. “But, I
still insist that Solomon came before
David not after him.’

However, Ailing Lackey, an encyclopaedia of legal terms, cites the
famous case of “Humpledinger vs.
Schwartz” to establish beyond doubt
that Selomon came affadavit.

Bleary Hinterland is appealing to
the voters in a different way. With
scissors and scalpel in one hand, he
adroitly dissects the legs from a
large brown swamp frog, while, with
the other, he distributes a series of
printed pamphlets entitled: “Everybody Out! Come On Gang!”

An acknowledged punster, Hinterland sends his listeners into peals of

THE

Rosedale Nurseries

HALIFAX ‘DARTMOUTH.

381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 eerne Garden Rd. H-2200

THe NATIONAL FISH CO.

_ Limited ©
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX Nova SCOTIA

re Wats u hg
i ce ‘ih | ay

y

| We could go on just endlessly,

 

) ‘THOMAS WALLACE

Mongo and China; oh we almost forgot a few more yet, Gif and Amie,
Alf and Newt, Don and Zelda, “Albert” and Jean Nicol, and Vern and
Shorty.

Campus Personalities: Presenting

Rayne awoke in a cold, clammy
sweat to meet an even worse fate.
He was still in Anguish 2. And
there was Professor Chully Beenut
declaiming on Heinz’s 57 Varieties.

 

Johnny Boudreau.—Johnny was born |

 
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
   
   

  
  
  

“LIZ” REEVES

“Liz” is known to everybody—
even the girls. Her vital statistics
are: age 19; height, 5’4”; weight,
120, and telephone number 3-9745.
She is a sophomore in Arts, majoring in English. “Liz” definitely
does not conform to the old saying,
“Beautiful, but dumb,” for she has
no mean brains inside that glamourous exterior. Her many activities
include captaincy of the girls’ debating team, which has taken part
in both intercollegiate and _ interfaculty debates. She is. C. U.P.
editor of the Gazette, besides being
general handyman and janitor of
the Gazette office. Always interested in dramatics, “Liz” is taking
part in this year’s Munro Day Show.
“Liz” has an everlasting supply of
college spirit as evinced by her role
as cheer leader on several oecasions
last fall, and by the eagerness and
enthusiasm with which she enters
into all activities on the campus.
Her favorite sport is Speed skating
and in this field she holds no less
than. nine cups. Also. she Save
basketball and badminton. A good
dancer too!

 

here, or it could happen to anyone.
After passing through childhood,
which he seems loath to leave,
Johnny came to Dal from St. Pat’s
High, Last year during the holidays
we were very pleased to hear of
Johnny’s engagement to one of
those delightful looking girls at the
Bedford Magazine. It seems, however, that she was called out of
town shortly after the new term
started and new Johnny must get
along with a great weight of responsibility placed on his sadly sloping shoulders. Johnny hopes to be
a happily married doctor by the
time that the sixth great war is
completed. Anyway he is a bonzer
cheer-leader and an all-round good
fellow, and we wish him the best of
luck in his medicine course.

material in a big way.

Determined to retaliate for the
many Haligonian raids on their territory,, but still mindful of which
pocket their money is in, the Dartmouth boys have gone after local
Last Monday they caught on to the fine set-up

at the Arena and forewith extended
an open invitation to all Dal females:

“bring your own Council tickets”.
Making an auspicious debut at the

Hall, Alee chose Jo from a crowd of
eager girls;
had so many offers that, in order to
cause no ill feeling, they were forced
to go stag.

while Smitty and Mike

And, to the chagrin of the third
member of that harmless trio, who
should be there but Louise with
Suitor No. 1, none other than Peter
“Rie on you, a Waterfield” Proc.

eS

Though Mount A. made every
effort to assure our teams a successful visit, they overlooked telling
goalie Giffen of the dangers in jumping from a window, especially when
a river runs below it. Of course,
after his blind date, he may have
been contemplating suicide.

sg Ne

Currie and Flynn were taking no
such chances and brought their dates
with them; Wade, who didn’t have
this foresight, had to sleep alone.

Rr &

It must have been hard on the engineers’ nerves to have their picture
taken in the shadow of that great
unknown, the Library. However,
their spirits were raised by the meeting afterwards, when it was learned
that, come heaven or fire water, the
Banquet will go on in the accustomed style. Inasmuch as the festivities
cannot be shared by the whole University, (especially the nervy lad
who asked to be made an honorary
engineer) we promise an added attraction during the Glee Club show
the same night. Don’t say you
weren’t warned.

World’s 8.C.M. Holding - 
(Continued from page 1)

other students are thinking the
same thoughts and are trying to
find the answers to the same _ problems. We should be at one with
them, and the very real feeling of
oneness that exists within the Federation in spite of insurmountable
physical barriers is symbolized by
the Universal Day of Prayer.

All Dalhousie and King’s students
are cordially invited to be present
to share in the service.

 

In Memory of Kaye McLean, who
departed from Shirreff Hall
December 744.

In memory of our dear friend Kaye,

’Tis only two months since she went
away;

O how we miss her cigarettes,

The candy she did see;

Her borrowed clothes, her Bio notes,

And everything was free ! !

But things have changed since Kaye
has gone—

And life is not as tres, tres, bon.

O what we'd give to have her back,

Amusement then would never lack—

Sighing for things that used to be,

So please, dear Kaye, remain our
- friend,

For this damn poem must surely |

—Ever remembered by the

Shirreff Hollerers:
Garson, Coleman and
Wolfsom.

 
 

WELL, SEE WALLACE”

) “IF YOU WANT TO SEE wholesome refreshment

Diao hn eee eee

—

ee Or biectine felon at Pie Youth Center

All across the land you find youth meeting together to have
fun at Youth Centers. And the center of attraction is the

      
   

of ice-cold Coca-Cola. For the

_ three words Have a Coke are passwords to companionship.
Everywhere Coca-Cola stands as a symbol of hospitality
and friendliness to folks of all ages.

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

Have a Coca-Cola = Let s all have fun

wy hanes 9

   

It's natural for

to acquire frien

 

ek names

abbreviaCoca-Cola called Coke.

 

tions, That’s why you hear |

But now I know Biolc

Six million mad bacte* neha
And I thought we were alone,

 

After Any Show |} | "

   
 

And sit and sigh an

\GE TWO 
—Brunswickan. ©

or eee ‘ “

Before Any Meal a

Think of ...

The

Green Lantern

 

st

 

ORPHEUS

Mon, - Wed.
“TIGER SHARK”

- Tues.

“THE WALKING DEAD”

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.

“BLACK MAGIC

“THE OLD TEXAS TRAIL”

 

    

 

 

CAPHT (ag

“Mirs. Parkington”

 

“The Very Thought

 

Virginia Bruce

 

“PENNIES FROM

 

“Rainbow Island”

 

GARRICK

Sat. - Mon. - Tues. #3
“BRAZIL” as

Tito Guiza

Wed. - Thurs. - Fri. ;
HEAVEN’

“YOU BELONG TO ME”

 
   
    
   
  
  

This Friday and Saturday

Mon. - Tues, - Wed.

of You”

Thurs. - Fri. - Sat.

 

 

Starting Saturday, Feb. 10

SUSANNE FOSTER

  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   

“BOWERY TO
BROADWAY”

starring

MARIA MONTEZ

JACK OAKIE
TURHAN BEY
 
  
  
   
  
  
   

ea ae 2
Byes,
ek a
Bc i hd,
alcer a

 

OL

a
he
,

  

TN THE

by FARQUHAR and DUNLOP

vo
at fi

 

ted? This was a decidedly poor week- end for Dalhousie teams as four en
ic | bi counters were lost to Mt. A and one
. to Acadia, while the hockey team

_ ‘ed the Engineers’ attack.

ee ball team pasted the Arts and Sci_ ence Hoop Squad by a score of 55-8.

 

. colleges.

Jim McLaren and “Bugs” MacKen
5 | The Halifax Mail

lost to Tech. The two girls’ teams,
although showing-up well in league
play, seemed not to care at all
_ whether they won, lost,
even played the game. Their playing was disorganized and poor team
_ work was noticeable throughout the
“game. The hockey team fared even

drew or

worse and at times it was hard to

_ believe that there were any players

“really” opposing Mt. A. or not. The

‘basketball team gave the best performance of the evening and for a
change they showed a little fight,
but they should have won the game
by ten points instead of loosing by
two. During the hockey game
against Tech, Dal seemed to loose
all spirit and initiative. Bob MacDonald seems to be the only athlete
on the whole campus who is not
afraid to fight for Dal. Of course
we'll say “Look what happened to
him, he’s practically dead now.”
All we can say to this is that he
might be practically dead but the
rest of the student athletes might as
well be dead and this goes for all
teams. The basketball game at
Acadia was pitiful to say the least.
Dal has a team which at the present
time should be able to take Acadia
on any floor, small, or big, yet they
get beaten by “ten” points, scoring
a grand total of nine themselves,
against nineteen for Acadia.

Something has been decidedly
missing in Dal teams for the last
three and four years. It is not only
fight; it seems to be even more than
that. The teams lack an initiative
to win; the best players make the
team and then say “what the Hell,
I’m getting my large D’s and all
the trips; that’s all I care about.”
If this attitude continues to persist
in Dal teams, we think that all senior teams should be cut out for a
few years until athletes wish to
fight for Dal and not for individual
glory for themselves. Until that
time Dal teams are merely disgracing the name of Dal and making
her the laughing stock of the other

 

Arts and Science Pull
e °
Surprise Win

In the Interfaculty Sport fields
lately, the Arts and Science Team
pulled a surprise in winning over
the highly-touted Engineers by a
score of 8-5. Jack Boudreau played

a stellar game in the nets for the
_Artsmen and Doug Chapman spark
Last week the Medicine Basket
Stevenson, Deacon and McLennan
headed the Med scoring power while

zie lead the Artsmen.

  
   
   
     
  
   
   

LOCAL COLOR

For interesting, accurate reports of local
events, read The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail.  Everything that happens in
the Halifax area that
is newsworthy is recorded in the columns
of these great newspapers, compiled by a
staff of rienced reporters. The completeness of local news coverage makes The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail, the most
popular newspapers
East of Montreal.

The Halifax Herald

   
  
  
 
     
 
     

   
   
  
   
  

   
   
   

 

WE
__ OR Your m

 

Acadia Defeats Dal in

First Intercollegiate

Dalhousie’s Tigers journeyed to
Wolfville Tuesday night and met the
Acadia Axemen on the court there,
bowing to the Acadia Collegians
19-9. This game was the first of a
two-game, total point series and the
Axemen’s win give them a ten-point
advantage in the series.

The game started slowly, with
both teams playing cautiously and
testing their opponent’s mettle.
Bruce Corey, star Acadia guard,
rapped two quick ones in the early
moments and for some time the
Axemen held a 4-0 lead. The game
was featured with close checking
throughout, with the Acadia zone
defence completely baffling the Bengals. At the end of the first canto
the Acadia-ites held a four-point
edge as the score read 7-3.

Acadia scored three baskets in
the second half, with “Doc” Morton
leading the parade, until Alf Cunningham retaliated with a long shot.
Near the end of the game, the Tigers got really “hot”. Farquhar and
Dunlop tallied on spectacular long
shots. Game ended 19-9.

talph Cooley played very commendable ball for the Tigers, holding the Acadia flash, Eddie Rogers
to four points. A return game has
been arranged to take place next
week on the Bengal’s home court.

ham 3, Farquhar 4, Dunlop 2,
inson, Pope, Algee.

 

_
;

THE silky strokes you
get from MIRADO’S
smooth lead will make
you Hye like a contented cat. You won’t
be irritated by broken
pee MIRADO will
e off your mind and on
the job—always. It’s
more than a pleasure, its
a real economy.

5c each—less in quantities

Certified with a money back
S#arantee in every dozen,

RANTEED
STRONGER 5s
Pitted MOOTHER,

ie Te ew

i a td ’ | 6. St. Mary’s — McLellan
Lineup: Cooley, Giffin, Cunning- |

L0b: |

|

  

 
  
 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

ICE SQUAD

; Wednesday afternoon saw the Tiger Hockey machine eliminated from further Intercollegiate competition when they were | Hockey Schedule May

defeated 5-3 by a powerful St. Mary’s sextet. This elimination
came as a surprise to fans since, at the first of the season, Dal
was favoured to cop the City Intercollegiate championship and proceed to vie for provincial hon
was unbeatable and

ours.
Lose Crucial Match

St. Mary’s defeated Dal 5-3 to
drop the Bengals out of the Intercollegiate league. McLellan and
Moore led the Samaritans with
Blakeney and Leblanc carrying the
Dal attack. The game was a hardfought one with St. Mary’s having a
slight edge as Dal was weak on defense due to MacDonald’s absence.
Giffin played an excellent game in
nets for Dal being beaten by clean
shots on all but one occasion. One
questionable goal was scored by St.
Mary’s after a puck had knocked
out the Dal net custodian.

The prettiest goal of the game.
was registered by Blakeney when he
blazed a beautiful shot into the
lower left-hand corner on a drive
from the penalty shot line.

Ist Period
1. St. Mary’s—Moore 6:00.
2. St. Mary’s—McLellan, 10:00.

5. Dal—Currie (Simon, Blakeney)
11:00.
2nd Period
No score.

3rd Period

4. Dal—Blakeney (Lightfoot) 2:00.

5. St. Mary’s—Moore (MacLellan)
2:30.

(Moore)
13:00.

7. St. Mary’s—McLellan
Hyland) 16:00.

8. Dal—Leblane (Blakeney) 19:00.

N. S. Tech Trims
Dal Bengals’ 4-3

Dal Tigers lost a heart-breaker to
Tech on Friday, coming within one
goal of tying the score. The outstanding forward on both teams was
Art Lightfoot who scored one, made
a beautiful pass for the second, and
played brilliant defensive hockey
when Tech put on the pressure. Key
figure in the Tech victory was Ross,
who played an outstanding game in
the cage, especially in the third period when Dal drove hard for the
tying marker.

Dal outplayed Tech most of the
way but a second period penalty
was very costly as Tech rapped
home two markers. MacDonald
again helped spark the Tiger attack,
setting up the third goal, while
Tech’s big gun, Tracy, although
well-marked, eluded the Tiger’s for
two markers.

(Moore,

See Our Pictorial
Special Rates to Students
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

 

Where the

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

\L TEAMS SUFFER FOUR LOSSES

a S

ELIMINATED

Oo— -—_— — -— ————

Girls Bow to Pidrertal

Mt. A. Sextet

Although the girls had a rather
disappointing week-end at Mt. A. in

that they came out on the short end
of the score in two basketball
| games, they fought hard and are

 

 

 

‘Be Completed at Arena

At the present time interfaculty
basketball has been proceeding at a
creditable rate but we seem to have
struck a snag as regards interfaculty hockey. The ice was alloted

| to us by King’s for any noon time
that we could arrange the games for
| and the schedule was drawn up accordingly. Old man weather seems
to have gone against us though and

| only two games have been completed

to date.
However, if the hockey team loses

looking forward to return matches} this Wednesday night the schedule

on their own floor.

| On the whole, the guards of both
| teams were baffled by the speed of
| the Allisonian players, but Lois Rat_tee turned in a steady defence for
the second team which finished with
a 20-13 score. Pat Jones was the
outstanding player on the first team,
jumping high for rebounds and getting 15 of the points in the final

‘score of 32-25.

Line-ups:

First Team: Forwards: Pat Jones
Ann Saunderson 10, Norma
Sherman; guards: Laurie Bisset, Sib

| Pentz, Joe Robertson. *

Second Team: V. Hart 8, V. Phil
lips 5, I. Robinson, M. MacPherson,
| F. Silver, J. Silver.

Subs: L. Rattee, M. Ross.

A remarkably honest Chicago doctor sent in a certificate of death the
other day with his name signed in
the space reserved for “Cause of
death.”

 

 

  

Pe .
dn,

 

Incomparable
Quality !

You can count on the type
of footwear you buy at
SHANE’S SHOE STORE
where we specialize in
HIGH GRADE SHOES
ONLY. Select from Canada’s Best... “HARTT”

. “SCOTT- McHALE”
“SLATER” and “RITCHIE”.

Shane’s Shoe Store

397 BARRINGTON ST.
HALIFAX

 

 

  

 

Work for Gifts
24 Hour Finishing Service
PHONE 36992

 
  
    
 

College Men Congregate

Specialists in Smart Clothes for Young Men.

*

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

112 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

will be completed at the Arena.
Playoffs will only be possible as the
schedule and the ice will not last out.

Dal Girls Victorious
In Hoop Play

Dal’s first team chalked up another win by defeating the first
team of St. Pat’s by a 28-12 score.
Ann Saunderson was high scorer
with 14 points.

Line-up: A. Saunderson 14, N.
Sherman 1, P. Jones 3, M. Ross, L.
Bisset, J. Robertson, S. Pentz.

The second team extended their
winning streak to four games by
earning a 36-4 victory over the second team of St. Pat’s. The superior height and strength of the Dal
sextet assured them of an easy win
from the opening whistle. As a result play was slow and ragged.

Line-up: J. Hart 8, O. Phillips 14,

 

I. Robinson 14, N. Silver, J. Silver, |
M. Masepherson, L. Rattee, L. Jod- |

rey, H. Prentice.

Mt. A. Pastes Tigers
At Sackville, 12-5

Dal received its worst trimming
this year when Mt..A. outplayed,
outscored, outshot, outskated and
outfought the Tiger hockey team.
Allowing for new surroundings and
peculiar boards, the Tigers had only
a look-in twice during the game, a
three-goal spurt at the end of the
first period, and a futile last few
minutes rally in the third, which the

 

 

February 16, 1945

    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

BADMINTON
TOURNAMENT
Feb. 26

All those who signed to participate in the Campus Championship Tournament are asked to
play February 26.

VIRGINIA PHILLIPS,
Manager.

  

Tigers Lose HeartBreaker to Mt. A.

In the final contest of the night
between Dal and Mt. A., the Bengals lost a close game 33-31.

The Tigers started fast and at
half-time led by a score of 17-13.
Star of the first half was fleetfooted Ralph Cooley who garnered
all of his 9 points in this half.

At the start of the second half,
Crawford,‘coach and high-point man
for Mt. A., broke‘ loose and at the
end of the game he had netted 16
points and set up the plays which
resulted in his team’s victory.

Lineup: Cooley 9; Giffin 4; Farguhar 2; Cunningham 8; Dunlop 6;
Pope 2; Robinson.
snes si seetiesensscssitiinnespsiom
Mt. A. goalie turned aside with excellent playing. Dal goals were—
Currie; Simon from Currie; Wade
from Simon in the first period;
Potechin from Blakeney in the second period, and Leblanc from Simon
and MacDonald in the third.

Dal received a serious loss when
MacDonald was injured in the second period and will be lost to the
team for the remainder of the sea
son,

 

 

AMETHYST FOR
FEBRUARY

The glorious purple of a

fine amethyst finds a welcome from those born in
February.

Fortunately, fine  specimens from South America
are available now.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

AT MOUNT A. .

  
  
  
  
  
  
    
 
  
    
    
   
      
      
  
  
  
  
    
      
  
   
     
  
   
     
   
   
    
   
     
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
      
  
    
   
   
    
 
  
 
  
   
   
      
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 

z

  
    
   
    
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
 

   
 
 

      
 
 
   
      
 

  
