   

        
 

7OL. LXXVI

 

Dal Debaters Defeat
Mt. Allison Team In
M.1.D.L. Competition

In an M.I.D.L. debate held last
Friday night in the Chemistry
Theatre, a Dalhousie team comprisng Peter O’Hearn and Jim McLaren
jowned Mount Allison University,
by upholding the negative of the
‘esolution: “That all medical services
oe placed under Federal Government
zontrol.” Robert Purdy, Amherst,
and Herbert MacWilliam, MacAdam,
N. B., constituted the Sackville duo;
Dr. S. H. Prince (King’s), Professor
C. H. Mercer (Dalhousie) and William White (Y.M.C.A.) were judges.

First speaker for the winners,
McLaren stressed the Free Enterprise system was sufficiently flexible
to meet the necessary changes in
national economic and health life.
He said government control would
reduce the physician to the status
of a civil servant ultimately robbing

him of his incentive and necessitat- |

ing the intrusion of politics in the
field of personal health service.
“Compulsion and coercion are incompatible with professionalism,” he
added. Citing the failure of a statecontrol experiment in Rhode Island
State, he concluded that “the grandiose schemes of government seldom
work out ideally.”

Peter O’Hearn, second speaker for
Sodales, advocated a scheme of National Health Insurance in which the
money would come from the people
instead of being taxed by a governing agency.

Educating the public towards curative medicine, he went on, “was the
core of a plan which would not remove the personal responsibility and
initiative of the doctor. “This would
be much cheaper and more efficient

(Continued on page 2)

Vox Discipuli

LARRY SUTHERLAND |

. led the field

DONNE SMITH

 

. +.» won by a nose

A frank unbiased
survey of campus
opinion.

 

What sort of shows do you
think the Glee Club should produce and Why?

Alf Cunningham, Com, ’48—

Although this is my first year at
Dalhousie I have attained certain

definite ideas on the policy of the]:

Dal Glee Club. So far as this year
is concerned I think that the objective of the Glee Club is to present
a variety of shows. The one and
three act plays were mainly put on
to give those interested in the dramatic angle a chance. The Frosh
show and the Munro Day show are
planned on a lighter vein and I think
that this is a good idea. Variety is
definitely the spice of any campus
organization and that is what the
present executive of the Glee Club is
striving for and I think a great deal
of credit should be given to them,
* * *

Blair Dunlop, Commerce ’47—

The prime purpose of the Glee
Club is to provide entertainment for
the majority of the students. The
type of show that seems to appeal
to most of the students is a musical
show in a light vein. This is particularly true of Munro Day shows for
if the interest of the students is not
held at this show the audience has

a eae to leave. Thus I feel
Ss » Munro Day show should be

; musical comedy with a

ee at 5

- i a ree 4
-“omine. . ce on Hh)

   
    

something light and amusing must
be provided. The Glee Club must
have the backing of ALL the students in this project but if this is
impossible the majority of the students must be catered to.
* * *

Anneta Goodman, Arts ’45—

The question all boils down to
whether the Glee Club should suit
their show to the majority of the
audience or to the higher morals of
the minority. Perhaps a little more
understanding on both parts would
help a lot — the Glee Club should
produce shows which will draw the
whole campus to the gym and keep
them there with entertainment that
they individually will enjoy and not
give them time to decide whether
they should laugh out loud or wait
till they go home where no one can

| see them.

* * *

Art Hartling, Arts *45—

If you mean Munro Day—I think
first of all it should be something
written by students as has been the
practice now for two years running
and no doubt was for some years
back. In addition I think it should
be a comedy—a play with scope for
both witty lines and especially for
honest-to-goodness pantomine. Slapstick, at least a bit of it does not
rete Bio or’ and least of all a

‘e show.

¥ | colle

 

AMERICA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 

HALIFAX, N. §.,

Only Two-Thirds Of Students Vote
Zappler to Head Glee Club; Harris the D.A.A.C.

PRESIDENT: Total Med.
Sutherland.... 306 127
RPE et 4s 181 3

VICE-PRESIDENT
Smith ........ 244 122
Farquhar..... 243 7

D.A.A.C, Executive:

President—

HIQEHIS 2s vs 188 596
Dunlop........ 165 61

Vice-President—
Wade......... 177 70
Cunningham... 174 50

Sec.-Treas.—

Mingo. ........ 205 51
Nicholson ..... 147 69

Glee Club Executive:

President—

Zappler....... 382 100
Mens oe VBL 24

Vice-President—
Reeves........ 245 77
Geddes........ 222 41

Sec.-Treas.—

Harrigan. ..... 288 91
Cunningham ... 172 23

FACULTY REPRESENTATIVES ON COUNCIL:

Medicine—
McClennan........ 74
OT hese. huey 62
OCR ee er 59
DPAZOG GA ack aty 55

Commerce—
Cerin ic Ge ee
RTO oc SoS ties oo 6

Arts and Science—
Senior:

Archibald. . 155
Philips......... 60
Stewart ....... 109
Saunders....... 100
FLASH!

Sodales Executive, 1945-46

President: Allan Blakeney, Law, ’47.
Vice-Pres.: Clinton Havey, Law ’47.
Sec.-Treas.: Jim Saunders, Arts ’46.

Law Wins Final Debate
Fred Young Addresses
Round Table Group

The last meeting of the Round
Table took place on Wednesday
evening. Interfaculty debating finals
took up the first part of the evening and after a hard struggle Law
emerged victors, thus winning the
shield. This was, without doubt, the
best debate of the year with both
sides putting up a good show, Law
excelling in presentation and ridiculing, Arts and Science presenting
excellent arguments. Outstanding
speaker of the evening was Havey,
captain of the law team, who said
nothing in a most entertaining fashion, convincing the audience and his
opponents that black, if not white
was at least greyish. He was ably
supported by Al Blakeney and
“Hard-Rock” Harrigan, who seconded his ideas that the classics were
dead, long live swing, The Arts and
Science team of Gibson, Saunders
maintained that swing was shortlived and told Hawey that his wife

(Contir hn page 2)

 

 
  

 

 

STUDENT PUBLICATION

MARCH 9, 1945

Gazette

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

“Constitution”
Committee of
Graduating
Class meets

Thursday,

 

March 15th
at 12 noon,
in Gazette
Office,
Arts Bldg.

 

No. 18

 

 

 

tions of the brewing from the de
Rev. Malcolm Ransom

 

 

Glee Club Stages Philip Barry's “Holiday”
Broadway Hit Brought To Dalhousie

 

The above shot was snapped during the Glee Club’s presentation of

“Holiday”, in the Gym last Friday

shipment of the finished product
were then explained in detail.
Particularly impressive were six
about fifty feet in height
and fifteen in diameter, filled to
within a foot of the top with beer.
Also very striking was the sharp,
tantalizing, and ever present odor of
ale, stout and lager. This powerful
combination of sight and smell gradually demoralized a large section of
the audience; the manager from the
pity of his heart, was forced to allow them access to his stock, under

livering of malted barley to the} the pretext of “sampling”.

 

Law Dent. Eng. Arts& 5S. Com. | (For criticism see Page 3)
Smee meh Bee Bo
27 3. 4 92 8 |
i ae) 84 3
31 Bey ey aeen saa
19, 14° 89 50 7
Os ARO 28 48 q
10°. 18) 40 oT 7
18.) 211. °..28 61 6
7 f°) Oe hen) he
Bey hee 25 1
BO NN OE
7 eS 41 1
21) 14°. 838 92 8
6. 10 33 £127 5
Bam eh SAE | eli.) eee 9
1 Beano kee 4
Junior: Philip Barry’s three-act comedy,
Ratee 126 night. From left to right the players are: Art Hartling, taking the part
a i] Bia ys QF of Johnny Case; Erma Geddes as Julia Seton; John Meakin as Edward
ai Farquhar. 4147 Seton, and Barbara White as Lynda Seton.
BI tae b cians ep lated a 8
rE Yh )4'0'y: Waite 69
Sout: Chemists Make Grand
BROPR ni lus xvas 130
McKinnon ..... 73 || Lour of Local Brewery | ,,..2°°<"
ah 5B Keith’s Brewery, Water Street,
patil t 2 Ad was the locale of the latest plant
Suet!) t/t uh se 35 visit of the student chemists. On
Dentistry— Thursday, March 1, the manager
Pentz (acclamation) courteously showed a party of about
Law— fourteen around. The tour was preHavey 2 faced with an explanation of the
Feeney ari anstonnidi sh flow-sheet of the plant. The opera|
|

Speaker at Service

Rev. Malcolm. “Mac” Ransom was
the special speaker at the student
service held in Kings Chapel on
March 4, His topic was “Relevant
Religion”. In the course of his talk
he used one particularly striking
illustration. “A group was discussing present-day affairs, and had
gone on at length, when finally an
old white-haired Negro stood up and
said: ‘God is plowing our presentday culture. We have reaped what
was sown in the furrows last time.
The important question now is —
what are we going to sow in the
furrows this time?’” If we have
any fundamental beliefs, if we are
Christians, now is the time to put
these beliefs into practice. He quoted
that terse remark of the prophet
Micah: “God has shown thee, O Man,

(Continued on page 4)

   

“QO tempora, O mores.” Once
| again custom has triumphed over
“what might have been,” and lest
the grapes be sour we hasten not to
scorn the victorious medical candidates but to congratulate them. The
election proved to be instrumental in
arousing the spirit of Dal students
and we hope the medieal school will
not retire from the circle of extracurricular activities but continue to
show the spirit which they have
demonstrated during the election.
$1)
Congratulations are extended to
Captain Clinton Havey on his elec| tion to the Council as Law representative. “Clint,” one time president
of the Students’ Council at Acadia,
and holder of three degrees should
prove a valuable asset to next year’s
council. Also successful in the elec| tion race was our own versatile
“Hardrock,” we feel that he with his
various skills and charms will lend
not only talent but also experience
to next year’s Glee Club activities.
ae

Bob McCleave, respectable, hard

Engineers Receive
Lecture on Ferry Wharf

On Tuesday noon Mr. M. Steiner
addressed a group of Engineering
students on the projected Dartmouth
Ferry wharf. Mr. Steiner, an Engineer with the firm of Foundation
Maritime Lid., outlined the work
that preceded the designing of the
new wharf. He described the survey work and the, problems met
while designing th w wharf.

attacked in a libellous article, which
witn reckless disregard for his per
| son and postion vas allowed publi. |
a...

   

Happenings at the Law School

workin,’ law student was viciously, |
maliciously, wilfully and wantonly '

cation. Any action whether tortious or otherwise, directed against a
certain faculty, will under the circumstances be justified.

* 6 *

Two ex-service men and former
students. at law are now back to
worship once again at the “shrine
of Maitland and Pollock.” Fred
Forbes has resumed regular third
year classes, and “Moose” MacLeod,
who has no doubt a more subtle
cognomen which has been obscured
for various unknown reasons, while
he attends no lectures, is a regular
visitor to the library.

x *

The interfaculty Law debating
team which so successfully “did for”
Soap opera, tonight will attempt to
justify the position of swing music.
This contest, with the still unbeaten
Arts and Science team, for the Bennett Shield will, we trust, bring
that coveted prize into the Law
School.

Pete O’Hearn successfully led a
Dalhousie intercollegiate debating
team against Mt. Allison debaters.
This shows in some measure the
wealth of unexplored talent in the
| Law School. Congratulations Pete,
on a very fine job.

 
         

ear pee ay eo
aS iva +) itr d mie LA A
Mra in Ay ee ee
CAE NG
f “ ied (0 hum } iJ ts)
ae

‘
. < ‘ ‘
| eS s t : ’ ita 2.
; a Phe th i> ed q
: } ‘ 7 3

ts »

  
 

1869 “THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA”
Bee Editor-in-Chief
JIM McLAREN (4-2236)
Features Sports
ALEX FARQUHAR
BOB McCLEAVE =A "ARQUEL
Photography Literary
ERROL McDONALD JOHN HIBBITTS

‘

       
   
   
 

Circulation
ANNETTA GOODMAN
ISABEL WILMOT

| LIZ REEVES (C.U.P.) JACK NICHOLSON

Bees ss Reportorial
|  HMCAMPBELL ART SAFFRON MARY MacDONALD

TED SHIELDS PAT CREWE JACK SIDEL
DON HARRIS BERNIE CREIGHTON . BILL KELLY

Business Manager: FRED MARTIN

   

 

 

i
i a
va la
"iy y
iy
he
14

ft bt Editorial: Tie
ss ELECTION ODDITIES

-_ ~~ The tumult and the shouting are now dead but the
memories linger on. Seldom if ever has a campus election
___ provoked such interest and enthusiasm from all sides or aroused
such a high tide of college spirit. a
_-—C«C*#PPrinted pamphlets, colored placards and frenzied activity
on the hustings contributed to a high election fever which
reached unprecedented heights at last week’s student-forum
+ gathering. Packed house, ringing applause and loud heckling
_ —all proofs of a rejuvenated college spirit at Dalhousie this
year.
_ _The election campaign was unusuai in another respect. — It
brought the hermits of the Medical School out of hibernation
and into the normal extra-curricular life of the university. Not
one, not two (the usual count)—but some 50 meds turned out
to cheer for the Gold and Black in recent basketball games,
which (by coincidence) fell at a crucial period of the pre-election
-_ ¢ampaigning.: Beaming broadly at the student electorate, the
ee Forrest dissectors_alternately warbled sweet nothings on the
ot stage and distributed barrels of apples bedecked with proSutherland streamers ...

To which resourceful Martinites replied: — ‘Sutherland
Gives You Good Applies . . . Martin Will Give You A Good
Council.”

“TJ suppose your turning out en masse has nothing to do
with the election,” said a sarcastic Martinite to a Med rooter.
it “Well, it has nothing to do with the game,” was the naive
reply. Which goes to prove that an election campaign, hke
Rum and Coca-Cola, helps to accentuate the positive.

. Bloé voting isa long-standing evil at Dalhousie although
it was less apparent than usual last Tuesday. The common
practice nevertheless is to vote not for the man but for the
_ faculty, sacrificing the best interests of the student body for

re the selfish intrigues of campus monopoly. This election apNe £ parently proved an exception to the general rule with each
em presidential candidate facing the electorate on his own merits

and not as the pawn or puppet in the game of pressure politics.
ae -$utherland’s claim to the presidency is unquestionable.
His accomplishments, both academic and extra-curricular, make
him a logical choice for the highest student office, and the fact
| that he polled such a heavy vote at Studley, shows that the
Meds gave their support to the right man.
ast There is always the risk however that a semi-moron or
ey imbecile may be nominated by some group or faction and
_ elevated to the Council presidency on the strength of bloc or
pressure voting.
If we are to make proper use of a democratic franchise we
~~’ must vote not as Meds, Law or Studley but as Dalhousians and
in the interests not of a faculty or clicque but of the entire

 

 

 
   
     
     
       
     
       
       
     
       
     
       
       
     
      
      
     
       
       
    
     

of student body of the university. In short, bloc voting is justified
oie only when it elects the ‘right man” to the right post at the
Me). ¥ight time.

1 Even more despicable than the “bloc voters” are those
a hypocrites who openly support candidate “X”, build up his
hopes of victory, and then proceed to stab him in the back at
OM the election pells. The Lily-Whiters of Shirreff Hall were the
& chief offenders in this department particularly in the vice
~Balhousie University

| Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
i pena ne History.
araduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degree
a of M.A., M.Sc. Pr 5 Pet ,
ourses—preparatory to Professional Faculti
Course in Public Administration ee : rt

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses.

  

 

The Professional. Faculties
. - in. = |
haw, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a vent, ; Fe

Residence

*. Ghierodt Hall, residence for women.
| Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

    

La

   
   
   
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

— hla Sembee

March 9, 1945

 

f *
Ng af
x < a a
AT > oa “we
ie Ane a

  

ie , # 5a 1

& 7 oe Be e |

Ottawa Calling 4
(“Inside” News from the Political Front) ; BS re; x

A CANADIAN UNIVERSITY PRESS FEATURE || ~

By NEIL MacDONALD ae
POLITICAL TENSION aan f
OTTAWA.—The date of the next election is uppermost |

in everyone’s mind. When are we going to get it over ¥

  
 
 
  

and get back to normal is the form the question most often] ©
takes. Actually, the present government is nervous abou oe
calling an election while the war is on, and yet it is going tobe}

difficult to® find a good reason to postpone the election uh
after hostilities in Europe cease. If the war is over, the government may hope that the public feeling on the question of conscription will not run so high and that it may have a chance |
of re-election on the basis of developing a\strong peace ng
post-war security.
Soldier Vote |
Such thinking, however, neglects |
the consideration of the soldier vote,

O— -— ieee mihi aie ee

Staff Sketches

which will be a much greater factor No. 6 |
in the immediate periord after the
war than it is at present. It is PooREtr

   

difficult for members of the armed
forces to speak with a united voice
under battle conditions, but let them
be out of the abttle area, perhaps in
the process of being discharged, and
they will begin to think more in
THE NATIONAL FisH co.||Fader’s Drug Stores
Limited | 135 HOLLIS STREET

 

 

tensely of the postwar government. | | Fresh Fish Specialists 29 COBURG ROAD
And if they have been exposed to Po
some of the abuses which are ap- HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA HALIFAX

Nova Scotia
parently common in the discharge

rehabilitation set-up, their vote will
not go for the government.

No one can predict at the moment,
on valid grounds, the results of the
next election because no one knows
yet when it will take place or what
will be the issues. Two or three
weeks before the election will be
time enough tomake predictions.

Anti-Government Feeling |

Travelling across two-thirds of
Canada, however, does give one a
definite impression of the temper of |
the people, and it would not seem
that that temper is very sympathetic
to the present government. For
every perscn who appeared willing
to support the government wholeheartedly at this point, ten seemed |
diametrically opposed to it and 20
were inclined to give their support |
elsewhere, although their minds were
not made up as yet.

When the campaign really starts,
we may expect one of the hottest
fights in the history of Canada. No
party has yet revealed its secret

 

 

 

 

Dr. George E. Wilson, Dalhousie’s |
Professor of History, was born an |
undisclosed number of years ago at |
sPerth in Ontario. He attended high
school at the Collegiate Institute in
Perth. He attended Queen’s University and later went to Harvard for
post-graduate work. His association
with Dalhousie has been a long one
for he has been here ever since he
left University. This year he is taking Histories 1, 4,9 and 11. Despite
his gloomy views on the world situation he maintains a cheerful outlook on life as well as a sense of

humor. His hobby? Gardening.

LOCAL COLOR

For interesting, accurate reports of local
events, read The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail. Everything that happens in
the Halifax area that
is newsworthy is recorded in the columns
of these great newspapers, compiled by a
staff of experienced reporters. The completeness of local news coverage makes The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail, the most
popular newspapers
East of Montreal.

The Halifax Herald
and American Gem Society

The Halifax Mail | Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

Dalhousie
Rings

College Rings are in

stock at Birks—a lasting keepsake of Happy
Days.

 

weapons, and
from all sides.

But, in an all-out fight, the odds
go to the attacker, and the government will be forced into a defensive
attitude towards its war record. The |
advantage definitely will be against
the party seeking re-election. |

surprises will come

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller

 

presidential race. These “Sweet Innocents” are apparently |
too fickle and immature to give OPEN SUPPORT to the candi- |
date of their choice. Instead, they resort to secret intrigues | —
and “behind the back” campaigning against a man whom they |
have always accepted as a popular member of their “inner |
circle.” Such conduct is inexcusable and speaks none to well |
of Shirreff Hall or of its ironic motto: “ESSE QUAM VIDERI.” |
But enough of criticism, and now, some collective con-'|
gratulations: to the winners, on their election; to the losers, on |
their “fair play” and good sportsmanship; to the student body, |
for its enthusiasm and interest throughout the entire campaign. |
If it does nothing else, the new Students’ Council must see
a ae the graph of college spirit continues on its upward |
climb.

 

 

        
    
     
    
       

FARMERS MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ON A PROVERB

Lae -— —-7- eS ee

industries

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

and corporations using’ |
the profits to increase incomes and|
| improve living standards.

World you are dark,

Malovent and cruel,
Blindly we grope,

Chaotic is our night;
Yet how sweet the hope,

How beautiful the flame,
Where we take a candle,

And light but one small light. h os ;
“It is better to light one small can- | ce orate ni | in
dle than to curse the darkness”. | weaknesses of parectueic aaa |
K.EB. ——Confucius, | O’Hearn concluded with some illus- |

| trative examples of the chaos and
s~eee | disorganization resulting from the
regimentation of government-con
| trolled medical services.

Purdy, first speaker for Mount A..,
maintained that government control
would mean a better coverage of the |
rural areas by medical assistance.
As doctors would have no financial

_DAL DEBATERS DEFEAT
MOUNT ALLISON TEAM IN
_M.LD.L. Competition——
(Continued from page 1)

 

 

 

YOUR SUITS

LOOK NEWER |
LAST LONGER.

LAW WINS FINAL DEBATE
(Continued from page 1)

preferred the ‘wedding march to
“Beat me, Daddy,” when approaching the altar. Havey provided the
climax by saying that he would have
preferred to hear “Don’t Fence

 

Me In”. dealings with their patients under °
Following the debate, Mr. Fred | state-control, all types — poor and When they 50 to Cousins
Young of the -C. C. F. spoke,| rich—would receive the same con
reminding the group that the world
faced a social upheaval created by
the Renaissance. He traced the development of socialists from repressed serfs to the present day, always
opposed by capitalists. He predicted
socialism in most of the world after
the war with the exception of United
States. The time required for it to
come to Canada depended upon the
amount of education the people
needed. When the CCF got in power
there would be public control of
banking, credit and the major basic

sideration, the same high degeree of
treatment,

Williams, second speaker for the
affirmative, foresaw higher standarls of health under state control as
well as a change in the doctorpatient relationship by which charity
cases would be abolished and indigents provided with adequate medical care, |

The next intercollegiate encounter
sends a Sodales team of Fred

Thompson and Clinton Harvey to
Acadia.

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish

lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
~~send what you have to Cousins often.

 
pa Aes

x da of college activities:
Das pe a few people on |
n that night, but |

os octane of the grim pros' yh J oy '—Oh

forth at padi you will be Cid to
m. | hav » received their matric from Edgehill and

oys have e even ‘resolved to go off their “give your comfor the day and so shall blossom forth in the newest

short. ¢san-sbot i habe who are interested. All

t eee expecially as the services of

are being sought.

ay a oni Nan event. Dal is going to show its

n the ring. A half hour will be devoted to an inter-match—perhaps this will give the Engineers their longe to don their gloves and rise and shine. All females prone

hing of teeth or fainting kindly spend their time else- |

A i if | 1 i Duets

oug diay: and ‘Gordie. Harrigan take over for the next thirty
- minute Ss as. they, conduct their College of Musical Knowledge among the
pro y rodigies: of our ‘campus. Rumor pes, it that valuable prizes are in the

offing, so eee on hand)

vans, i‘ Cape, Breton Hoedown

i a duotliiens of the day will be focussed on all you Cape Bretoners
te rap roximately 4 ‘pem., | ren you will get a chance to strut your stuff
; ye | : ] . famed Cape Breton Hoedown. This feature was originated last
} yes r nd few W have forgotten it; in fact few have even been able to forget
s, not lucky enough to answer in the affirmative when asked
h > Bay, b’y, or from the Pier, dear, are just getting over
ered from last year’s exhibition. However, we're ready
try 2 er the time-worn theory that experience

i \\"]
; Rite, /

all tim argh a genuine native of North Be ty Roy. None of
wo can afford to miss so aa an ey to participate in the finer

wea thiesk
hs “tion Kaci that all. aA

. Hr gtk ae ‘you. want your ham sted: on a hiaee) you'll follow along to the

Aiea Ul “Ae wer gym, where it will be accompanied by potato salad, apple pie and

mh the famed Whyte coffee.

LeU EAN Evehing frolies begin promptly at 7.15 with the introduction of the

4 - Couneil Lid the new President of the student body—Larry Sutherlalnd,
i co | Musical Comedy

“We Al Went: Down to Norman’s” is the title of the musical comedy

to be presented by the Glee Club. Seldom has a Dal play received so

| wi much publicity before the performance, and so we are all expecting great

things from it. It is highly commendatory that so many are taking such
an active interest in the production.
Following will come | the few, but well-chosen speakers, granting of

Pak 8 the awards, and then on to the dance.

| toon feuded

“FIGHT MY BROTHER’

rr brudebi’s postscript to an editorial entitled “Dr. Wilson’s Pessimism”,
. appearing in a recent issue of The Gazette.)

"_Slaughter-—Drowning-—Toxture—

4 4 Starving 04)

ON: “Why are we again at war?”

Bay it ‘To fight for Right, avenge the
Be i er 5 8 SRO

United, therefore, we must stand
Strong, determined not to yield.

‘Borvard Bother .
Onward fight! _

Build your future
Safe AND RIGHT!

: AN war before for this was tought”

' | Rit, my Benchior: | : a
Therefore strive!
We are young and —
We thrive!

Mistaken are those recepticists
| Whom some would take for realists;

Hear the call of all the millions
Who gave their best, their everyoy es: a
mor i those millions stary Convinced that we shall win!
rot that waste and grief? nit
rgot hat eursed blood-shed, _. Forward Brother,

ed t Onward fight—

_ Fight by word and deed!

Light your torch and hold it

high!
Make the way to victory!

| Come, my Brother, rise and join us,
| ‘| We shall triumph, win the fight!
nel Glorious shines: the day before us
sign! i v. cn we. proved that Right is

, wards Announced
Barbara White (Engraving)

Art Hartling (Engraving)
Mike Waterfield

D.G.A.C. D’s

Joe Robertson

Norma Sherman
Virginia Phillips
Marjorie Leonard (Hon.)

Sodales D

Bob McCleave
Delta Gamma D
Debating: Pat Ryan

Gold D’s

Bob Wade
Carl Giffen
Alex Farquhar

Silver D’s
Art Burgess
Ral, Feanny
Gazette D’s

Jim Campbell
Bill Mingo

Literary D
Katherine Bean

Glee Club D’s

Reta Payzant
Pete Payzant
Edie Greek (Honorary)

Harry Pappler (Honorary)

Bob MacDonald
Vic. Clarke
Doug. Clarke,

Doug. Clarke

Anetta Goodman
Alex. Farquhar

Student Council D’s

Mr. MacLeod
Joyce Nicholson
AnneMackley
Alf Pike

Art Titus

Elaine Hopewell

“All Hail to Thee Dalhousie”

Let’s bring down the rafters with these “old reliables” at the
Munro Dey sing-song! !

BLACK AND GOLD

We love to sing of Dalhousie, 7
Our noble Alma Mater;

Of all the things we love the best,
There is to us no greater:

The ties that bind us to college days
No power can ever sever;

For we'll be true to Dalhousie,

And the Black and Gold forever.

Tune ev’ry heart to sing for joy,
And banish ev’ry sorrow;

The boys and girls who leave today
Will build her up tomorrow; :
We're all in love with our college dear,
The pride of our endeavour;

And we'll be true to Dalhousie,

And the Black and Gold forever.

When we have left these dear old halls,
Upon our graduation,

Another throng will sing our song

Of loyal adoration;

The memory of our college life

shall never fade, no, never;

We'll all be true to Dalhousie, 
And the Black and Gold forever.

DALHOUSIE DREAM GIRL
By DON MURRAY
All through the day, all through the night,
I keep on thinking of you.
While you’re away, nothing seems right,
I feel so lonely, so blue.

Chorus:

Dalhousie dream girl of mine
You are my dream girl divine.
Love me forever and I'll love you too,
Always be true,Dream Girl to you.
Dalhousie dream girl of mine,
Thoughts of you thrill me like wine.
Make me one promise that you’ll be forever
Dalhousie dream girl of mine.

TO OLD DALHOUSIE
Oft as I’ve sat in the twi-light gloom
Reveries flooding my sorrowful soul
Thoughts straying far from the shadowy room
Seeking a friend all my woes to console
Wishing for home and friends far away
Memories of you were the solace found
You dear old college I greet you today
Still in my heart you with glory are crowned.
Chorus: : |
Back to old Dalhousie as in days of old—
Back to Alma Mater and the Black and Gold
The memories of our college growing brighter year by year—
Here’s to old Dalhousie ever to her children dear.

THE TIGER TEAM
See them plunging down to the goal,
See the Tigers banners stream,
Hear the crashing echoes roll,
As we cheerfor the Tiger team.
Rah! Rah! Rah!
Chorus: .
Cheer ’till the sound wakes the blue hills around
Make the scream of the north wind yield
To the strength of the yell that our hearts know so well

When the Tiger team takes the field
Rah! Rah!

With our hearts in our song we march, march along
While the knell of our foes is tolled.

Oh! The victory is sealed when the team takes the field,
And we cheer for the Black and Gold.

_ Hark! Dost. ehihis hear that rousing strain,
‘| ‘That's Dalhousie’s battle ,

L00 Mey og once. again,

Barry Ploade Tolerance;

Glee Club Presents Farce —

Gazette Critic Displeased with “Holiday”

by MORTON NORMAN

In a sense, I suppose we’d all like to be Linda Seton, or at
least to be in a position similar to hers—to be very intelligent,

and sophisticated, and awfully rich, and to have “nothing left nag

to do, or have, or want.” And, like Linda Seton, I suppose we’d

| scientiously

want to suffer for it, too—to know what it is to be dissatisfied
in a world of plenty, and to experience a life, which, in spite of

its material wealth, is still empty and meaningless.

However,

the great difficulty in presenting Barry—at least for a nonprofessional group—lies in the fact that it is sometimes difficult

to be convincingly dissatisfied.

Barry pleads tolerance for the
rich and mighty,’\ not because they
are dissipated and immoral, but
because they are beset with the
strange psychological problem of
having nothing left to do, or want,
or plan for. Huwever, the slightest
mis-step, and the amateur group
plunges all that into faree, and
Barry becomes not a psychological
dramatist pleading tolerance for the
rich and mighty, but a social and
moral satirist.

Confusing Problem

Unfortunately, it was a bit difficult to decide, from last Friday
night’s performance of “Holiday”,
whether the cast was presenting a
psychological problem play or a
social farce, and if they were presenting farce, whether it was supposed to be comedy, or moral satire.
| Indeed, at times I wondered: for no
one seemed to know exactly what
it was all about, or if knowing,
seemed to care. There were, indeed, several factions, each with
different interpretations, and each
conflicting with the other. There
were those, including Peter Donkin
and John Meakin, who seemed to
eonsider the whole performance a
grand farce. Meakin in particular,
as the elderly and dignified Edward
Seton, displayed an irritating tendency to overact—although I realize
‘it is difficult to assume a character
| part of that nature, and that it is
almost impossible not to pose and
| pretend. Donkin, however, (with a
| role quite to his taste) in spite of
| his past experience, seemed to lack
'a true understanding of his part.
Ned Seton, as conceived by Barry,
was not a particularly charming
person, and I’m sorry to say Donkin
was charming: somehow he man'aged to win the audience’s indul| gence, and that was not Barry’s
| conception at all, It is true that in
Linda’s case it was, and yet Barbara
White, while approaching the play
with a better appreciation of its
problems than any of the others, as
Linda, failed somehow to be convincing. Indeed, Barbara White
played Barbara White admirably.
Truly, she was poised and aloof, as
Linda was, but ‘Miss White is neither
very dissatisfied nor very dissipated,
and her acting, though at times convincing, could not altogether compensate for that deficiency. Erma
Geddes, however, while. not taking
her role as seriously nor as conas Miss White, was
nevertheless more convincing. Erma

is an admirable person to watch,
although inclined to move too swift-.
ly on the stage, and to be overly
emphatic at times. That, I think,
is due to lack of econfidence—particularly in her lines—and not to
any lack of experience.

Straight Comedy

Still another faction (the largest,
and as group the most successful)
played their roles for straight
comedy, and the success of the
play was largely due to their efforts. Although at times they
lacked ‘the spontaneity and ease of
the more experienced and leading
characters, they succeeded largely
because they couldn’t, and idn’t take
themselves very seriously. Hal
Pearson as Nick Potter and Nita
Sederis as Susan, handled their supporting roles splendidly, and above
all, conscientiously. For not attempting to steal any of the scenes
(that, in spite of all their opportunities) I should particularly like
to commend them. Last, but not
least, was the admirable casting of
Helen Weiner and Bernie Creighton
as Mr. and Mrs. Seton Cram.
Though their moment of triumph
was short-lived, they more than
made the most of it.

Hartling Superb ‘

High praise of the evening, however, must go to Art Hartling, who,
as Johnny Case, turned in one of the
finest performances of the play. He
was not only most convincing, but
seemed to be the only character
with any clear idea of what it was
all about. He had not a particularly easy role—more than anything
else it demanded absolute sincerity.
Hartling, however, succeeded. His
performance was altogether sincere,
and never once false. The success
of the play as a psychological study
was altogether due to his efforts.
Unfortunately, he received little
support, and, in spite of his efforts,
the play very often failed. On the
whole it seemed to lack cohesion and
unity. The third act, although very
well done, could not compensate for
the first and second acts, which were :
too slowly paced, and all too often
lost at sea,

‘With the right play and the right
cast, Mrs. Clarke is capable of extremely competent work. Although
“Holiday” was a splendid selection,
and the cast, for the most part
well-chosen, the trouble was that no
one seemed to understand what it
was all about.

—And here’s another verse to the immortal
“MY GIRL’S A CRACKERJACK”

My man’s from old Pine Hill,
He never pays a bill

Just robs his old man’s till,
He runs the whiskey still;

And when the old man drops,
He’s going to brew the hops,

How the, etc.

GAUDEAMUS IGITUR

(An international song of freedom among students in
European universities, in tribute to whom it is here inserted.)
Gaudeamus igitur, juvenestrum sumus;
Gaudeamus igitur, juvenestrum sumus;

Post juventutem juventutem;
Post molestan senectutem,

Nos habebit humus;
Nos habebit humus;

Vivat Academia, vivant Professores!
Vivat Academia, vivant Professores!
_ Vivat membrum quodlibet,
_Vivat membrum_ quodlibet,
Semper sint in flore!
Semper sint in flore!

 
<— = =~ = ~~
j
i

       
 
   
   
    
   
   
   

yp rs . — —~ YS — A fa, fy =. ~ ~

Wants more “Literary” contributions

Pe dpsinticed in the last few years that the Literary Column of
te has been given less and less prominence, and we understand
t the reason for this is a supposed apathy on the part of the students.
However, we feel that a great many Dalhousians would like to see
Column given more consideration, and, if given more encouragement
support, would be willing and capable of contributing articles of suf9. , icier literary merit to maintain its position as one of the best in any
rd _ Canadian university publication.
eet We have seen suggestions that gossip columns be given more space in
aa e Gazette; no one has as yet spoken out for the literary column. Withi at disparagement to the features already in the Gazette, we suggest
ere ore, that our literary column be given the most vigorous support,
assured a reasonable space each week.
Rie Yours very truly,
H. F. AIKINS,
DAVID COLDWELL,
KATHERYN BEAN,
| LOU COLLINS
_-——s (We fully agree with the sentiments expressed above—but, without
_ ___ gontributions, what can we do? In view, however, of limited space and
_- heavy advertising, we favour SHORT articles or poems of a high stand' ard to the long mediocre variety —J. C. McL.)

   

 

 

3 UE . Express views on Campus Sports
- Dear Sir,—
--~—s Unfair and unjust criticism levied carelessly and with reckless dis(2 regard for facts and circumstances is certainly unwarranted, however, I
-__— gannot think that a college of Dalhousie’s standing in Canadian University circles would foster any such conditions as are existing under the
D.A.ALC.
Every year the D.A.A.C. receives a grant of $3000.00 This sum, and
I think it is not unreasonable to call it generous, should be entirely devoted to the building and maintenance of a student athletic programme.
It is not to provide highly specialized training to a few versatile individuals, nor is it a fund to sponsor professional teams. It is afforded by
each student’s contribution and it is the privilege and the duty of every
Student to take his or her part in college activities. But first and fore
ah most it is the duty of the D.A.A.C. to arrange a programme whereby
re some measure of interest may be aroused in sport and its affiliated activiie Ah ties. It is not fair that this sum of money should benefit only a small
cu i minority of the students. No blame can be placed on these students, nor
tie: is it just to affix blame on the members of the D.A.A.C. However, I
Atk - should think the activities which merit the expenditure of three thousand
as dollars would and could be more extensive.

ie | ; JACK NICHOLSON.

iy

ap cy Scores Lackadaisical College Spirit u
te Dear Sir, ,
Being a freshette at Dal this year, I feel that it is my privilege to

  
      
     
             
       
          
           
          
     
       
 
    
       

express my opinions of some mishaps of the campus.

eh, My main complaint concernes the spirit among the students. All in

nee all something has to be done. Take the girls game with Acadia: near the

‘ , end when the Acadia score was creeping up, did any Dal student clap

li uf, or cheer? No, but some bright (?) males were busy learning Acadia

: 4 4 ; yells.

“ah, The team could not be expected to have any spirit without support.
ae How can the players be enthusiastic when the students don’t care if their
an team wins or loses?
abe If something isn’t done about “Dal spirit’, all atheletic teams will
a be abolished. We must build it up with all the students taking part.

a4 i Another weak spot is found in the “Gazette”. Too many responsi
Bey bilities are resting on a few people. All activities should include every

we _ Dal student and they all must take part in everything.

wa ; If you were to listen to the opinions around the campus, you would

; aa find similar complaints. I am not writing this letter to be sneered at but

ee _ to arise new lights in students’ minds. Come on, Dal—show us some real

| spirit, NOW!

or Eat ne Sincerely yours,

Neh. 3 MARGOT ROSS.
ee

Where the
College Men Congregate

Specialists in Smart Clothes for Young Men.

*

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

112 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

_ A good slogan in war or peace: “Say Schwartz and be
Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may be
assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee,

Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and
- Dried Fruits.

_ || W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.
|] Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
| Founded in Halifax in 1841

  

 
 
   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ANNUAL MUNRO DAY HONORS
GREAT DALHOUSIE BENEFACTOR

as ee

A

a

a 7
Pani’ pti

Seto “4 sy + ay

oe

~~! pete te

¥ La
11a tee eet
eae ay a Be
_ ee et een eee
a Aig - ae are oe
~ a PEA la ac kn re Oe

 

The second Tuesday in March has been set aside by the
university every year since 1928 to celebrate the benefactors of
Dalhousie, and has been called Munro Day, in respect to George
Munro, not only because of the great financial aid he gave but
also the timeliness of his gift. For when the university was to be
closed down due to financial difficulties, George Munro made his
significant contribution. j

George Munro was born in 1825.|
His father had a small but successful farm and in the atmosphere of
Scotch family life he grew up. In
his home, religion and patriotism
were highly respected and with his
nine sisters and brothers he shared
all the joys of a happy family. All
these pleasant associations and influences made a deep impression on
him and in later years he returned
to his home in Millbrock annually,
bringing with him his children to
show his old home with considerable
pride.

His previous training, family influence, ambition and energy soon
placed him in a position to set up
business for himself.

Endows Publishing House

Munro’s interest in education persisted and in 1867 he _ established
“The Seaside Library’—a _ publishing scheme to develop a taste for
good literature in the minds of the
masses. His aim was to publish the
best fiction, essays and history in
cheap editions so that through them
he might assist in the education of
the people.

Besides being called a great “innovator” in the educational field he became known as the fatner of the
Skyscraper, for when Munro built
his publishing house on Vandewater
Street it was the highest building in
New York. One of the first apartment houses in New York, overlooking Central Park, built by Munro,
who was now a wealthy man, bears
the name “Dalhousie.”

His first donation to Dalhousie
University was in 1879 and was
larger than any previous donation
given to a Canadian college. He
made many more generous gifts during the next few years. In the
1880’s Dalhousie’s future was very
insecure and had it not been for the
benefactions of George Munro, the
university would have closed down.

Ardent Presbyterian

In his success, George Munro remained the simple and noble person
he had always been, reluctant to accept praise and fame for his good
deeds. He was always a contributor
to worthy causes, hospitable and a
true believer in the Presbyterian
Church. He wished his gifts to be
considered a part of his ideals to
promote education and pay his respect to the land of his birth.

To George Munro, we, the present
students owe a two-fold debt—as a
benefactor who made our attendance here today possible and as an
example of unselfishness and virtue.
“Lives of great men all remind us

We can make our lives sublime,
And departing, leave behind us
Foot-prints on the sands of time.”

—Wordsworth.

 

In Printing Business

His primary education was similar
to that given all country boys of
that time. When he was twelve
years old he entered the office of
“The Pictou Observer,” to learn the
printing business but he only remained there two years and left to
return to school—this time in New
Glasgow. After two years here,
young Munro turned to the teaching
profession but when he was eighteen
years old back again to school to
centinue his studies, under his former schoal master, Basil Bell, who
was then at Pictou Academy.

After a two year period, Munro
went to the New Glasgow’school but
now as a teacher. When he had
taught there for three years, he
proceeded to Halifax to teach
mathematics at the Free Church
Academy in Halifax. He was later
made Principal.

Along with the duties of teaching,
he studied theology but he never became a clergyman. It is said that
after preaching one sermon, he resolved never to renew the ordeal.
Being a modest man to the extent of
near-shyness, this vow is quite understandable.

At that time Nova Scotia had nine
colleges, each having close religious
affiliations, which were responsible
for much enmity. Munro, being extremely interested in education, was
displeased with the religious controversy within the province, which
was undermining the educational
program. He then turned toward
“the States” and in 1856 he was employed by a large publishing house. |

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

See Our Pictorial Work for Gifts

ial Rates to Students 24 Hour Finishing Servi
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD. PHONE 36992

   
 

  

 

‘ < —. — ‘
J a és —e.
= O 7
D ees = 2 m3 3 ore ook
> ew: ~~ - - “
< cs ; —— se
; 2 ‘ z nea =
3 wh >, ee ute Fa e ‘a = se = - = *
& = Fe> ED Se ee a : ~ =
LLL DLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LLL LL LLL CC LLL LLL LLL LL LL CL CL eT tt

March 9, 1945

Council President Titus Reports on
Student Activities For Year

The Students’ Council has nearly completed another year,
and although hampered seriously by decreased income, we feel
that it has been a very successful one. A very active election
campaign was carried out by the nominees last Spring which
was not only interesting and enjoyable, but also served to acquaint the students with the people they were electing to the
Council, and it is hoped that this will again become a tradition

at Dalhousie at election time.

As was stated above, decreased
income has this year, as in all the
war years, seriously curtailed many
activities which the Council would
ordinarily sponsor. All in all, however, the essential fuctions plus a
few extras have been carried out to
the best of the Council’s discretion,
even though it did mean digging
into our reserve built up in past
years.

Financial Budget

The Council endeavoured this
year to straighten out the problem
of budgets with the result that they
were all in and passed before the
term was a month old.

The student directory was published well before Christmas this
year while in past years it didn’t
appear until well after.

Early in the fall an attempt was
made to arouse student spirit to

support our teams and other college functions. .Pep rallies and

smokers were held with very good
results but there is still room for a
great deal of improvement along
this line. It is hoped that the Council next year will continue this programme.

Athletics

In atheletics, our teams, although
not of championship calibre made
their presence felt in every league
and in every game and several trips
were made to outside colleges and
towns both by mens’ and womens’
teams. This included a swimming
team to a Maritime meet at Fredericton.

Delegates were sent to a reorganization conference of the National Federation of College and
University students held at London,
Ontario. The delegates gained valuable information that has been a
big help to this year’s Council and
should prove of even greater benefit to next year’s Council.

The Students’ Council this year
also tried and is still trying to obtain a common room for use by both
men and women on the campus. At
the time of writing no definite answer. can ‘be given except that prospects have become very bright in
the past few weeks and that our

common room may be a reality before next year rolls around.

Changes have been advocated this
year regarding the financing of the
football field and our annual gymnasium rental fee which if acgepted
by the University will release an
additional sum for student activities. Changes regarding the
financing of our year book,
Pharos, have been undertaken as
well but as yet are still indefinite.
It is hoped, however, that these
changes will remove some of the
obstacles in publishing it and for an
immensely better year book worthy
of the University.

The war work this year has been
mainly along ‘two lines, namely, (1)
through our blood donor society ‘
which has had another very successful year. Nearly two hundred students have donated their blood to
the Red Cross and also the society
sponsored a Red Cross dance with
all the proceeds going to the Red
Cross. (2) The Council this year
invested two thousand dollars of its
reserve fund in the recent victory
loan.

Cooperation

This has been a year of changes
within the university, our president
having resigned, and from the looks
of the above outline the Student
Union has shared in these changes
as well. Before concluding this report, as president of the Students’
Union, I should like to thank very
much the members of the Students’
Council and the Student Body as a
whole for their cooperation throughout the past year for without their
support and hard work nothing could
have been accomplished. I would
also like to thank the Dalhousie
Alumnae Association and our Faculty advisor, Dr, Bell, for their very
fine support on the many questions
that were put before them through
the year.

We wish the incoming council the
best of luck for the new year ahead
of them and hope they may benefit
by our mistakes.

Dalhousie Students’ Council,
Arthur Titus, president.

essere

They sat side by side in the’ moon- “Darling I know that my life has

light

been fast

She murmured as she smoothed his| But I’m on my last lap now.”
—The Brunswickan.

brow

 

 
  
 
 
  

 
 
   
   
  
 

3 i a rel + Crieket Me2 is 80, > much more of

> is s the elections, the fracas
and without the Glee Club,
He
fed abeatily for. a while.

fiat fact, continued Cricket, “I see

r j n » reason why you should ‘bother
a vith ie ea, at all”.

  
 

 

“only shuddered, and

| “tried a straighten out his back into
Ks iy a curved | shape, from the awkward

_ position it had been in from the
_ ham-handling of the group. “It is

PF ieparntaiea viciousness for this ignoramantic group to blast one who
has touched on their weakness with
the: tender skill of a grown-up who}

f ee knows the mistakes of youth are

 

LF at? not inherent in the ) man that is to

come.

es am referring of course, to the
apparent ability of even a member

of that group to grow up mentally.
Their crude remarks about my

keeping them in the public eye as
black sheep is unwarranted, too. My
personal opinion of them is of a

| gang of gay, light-headed, and sin
 .eere youngsters who because of a

- eertain

| ~~ forced to invent

_ drinking, gaming, and the pursuit
of women. ~

lack of wordliness—are
blatant sins as

“The last woman I saw an engin
eer with was an outeast———”

“I’m telling you, McLeak, that
your mind is too hep on this prob
lem to do a good job on Rufus

Rayne this week. I think it would

q “be better if you dictated a few
choice words about the various ac
tivities of the week, and allow me

 
   
    
 
   
  
    
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
    
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
    
   
      
    
  
     
  

  

  

  
  
        
  
 
 
  

promise to be fair.

“age a

to write-the column”, said McGosh,

_ interrupting.

“No, never mind, Cricket. I
But perhaps
you had better stick around while
I buzz off the copy”.

The story rapidly commences here,
and if anyone has been reading beforehand, they are only wasting
their time.

& * % :

The Glum Club was in a pant.
Not only had the girls of Marmalade
Wigwam refused to act in the
Glum-written show, “Infantile Is
The Air I Breathe”, but Romeo
Culthuring had given an ultimatum

- to the rest of the students, that he

would either have his way, or else
trod a solitary track, to quote the
words of a modern song.
Meanwhile, a specially prepared
-seript on the inability of modern
“woman to face the world without

_ hairpins or males—a purely intellectual effort of McLeak—was be
ing harpooned into oblivion.

“TI don’ blame them,’ hollared McLeak. “All I can think about are
these darn engineers. Imagine them
backward-bowing me. They could
remove my brains and I’d still be
able to carry one a conversation
with them. I can’t see why they

didn’t expose them on the river

banks to crocodiles when they were
little, ca)

“Enough of that, McLeak”, said
the gruff voice of Cricket over MeLeak’s | ‘shoulder, “You’re supposed
to be writing an objective colmun.
How about ee about: the debate?”

rh eee es ee
A gush of liquid oratory flowed
‘from the pharnyx of J. Cricket Me
Gosh, as he and Peter-Out O’Hen
clashed verbal swords with the |
Mount Allison debatable team, “I
think”, said the immortal Cricket,

y: “that the cause of humanity could }

_ be best served by having less doe-| settling. I can’t sleep, I can't eat,
nd ‘more. Paes 0% bicrinlina

o eapciame 7

i | J Tce Eaier Finds al
tie] Debate, Glum Club Fracas ONLY

Material For Column This Week

ferent scheme. Accentuating the
positive, after MceGosh had more or

less cleared the field (and the room)
of excess doctors, he stated

b “throughout my life, I have often

found more wrong with me than
the ordinary doctor could fathom.
For example, there was the time
when as a youth—for I was young
once — I contracted tonsils, which
doctors said was both unusual but
financially beneficial. | lost both

my tonsils and my shirt over that
one,

“Are we to. categorize the ills of
society in a filing case, as my worthy opponents would do, or are we
to have our ills to ourself. Personally, I would not like future gener
ations to know that I had precocious——___”,

Chairman of the meeting was the
backward-bowed McLeak, who listened politely to what was said. He
mused on the days when he attended
Anguish Twain in the ‘same Chemistry Theatre he was at present stationed in, and then his eyes met the
back row, “There sat some good
scholars, a pair of engineering students named Waffles and Waddle.

“Speaking of engineering students
reminds me of the fact that there
is a certain group on this campus,
which by blinding itself to the realities of life, has libelled both a scholar, a gentleman, and a Christianme”.

The firm voice of McGosh interjected itself into the writing of the
chronicler of Rufus Rayne. “Okay,
kid, enough of that. Let’s see you
write strictly about Rufus Rayne
Cut out these poisonal references.
Perhaps you’d better do the elections”. u

* * aL

| A last minute appeal was being
made the electorate by Frazzle-Dazzle Martini. “Vote for me, and
abolish the O. T. C.; cast your ballot, and get free meals at Marmalade Wigwam. Exercise your democratic privileges and remove the
ruthless frankenstein of medical
domination of the campus.

“With all due deference to my
worthy opponents, let me site the
case of Tweedle vs Worthypants, 6
Exchequer Division, in which Lord
High Chancellor Lord Plumduf said,
‘Nuts to a society which has not the
gumption to vote the way it wants
to vote’ ’’.

A voter dashed into the telephone
booth where Martini was making
his final fling at the electorate.
“Sorry, Frazzle-dazzle, but the elections are all over. Hinterland and
his rambling mate have) won—hands
down”,

It. was the queerest election
around Dalhousie in years, thought
many. Some asked after the election, “Why should we in Artz and
Seance vote for a law candidate instead of making a saw-bone vote.

That’s the $64 question”. The answer was obvious.
Slyporker beaten, Distanttram

edged, Zum-zee-dum in as Glum
Club president, Mongo in, FrayedTop wins smashing victory. All
these were the mong hts of the
campus.

That is, all except MecLeak. He
was mourning the fact that his votes
had gone astray, none except one
had come home to roost.

“My capacity to vote is terrible”,
he quoath. “An astute political observer of the scene for years, I could
not elect even the assistant to janitorship. And I know what was
wrong.

. “That. siginbesing attack is un
Hea, There is a cer
*| ineident

enthusiastic people. I have carried
the torch for them for years; last
year I wrote an article in which I
gave them 10 ready rules to culture
and being lady’s men (and you know
what they are now); two years ago,
I tactfully pointed out when I was
editor of the Gazoot, that they could
very well be glossed over when
searching in the college for intellect”,

“Enough of that,” screamed Gazoot pencil-pusher Cricket McGosh.
“IT told you to be impersonal and
objective, and you have done nothing but write your own personal
grudges in the paper. You’re
through; you’re out; you’re no good;
you’r a bum; you’re ruining the Gazoot; you’re not worth the printer’s
ink behind your ears”.

“Don’t say any hard words to me,
Cricket, or I’ll take my typewriter
ribbon off that machine, and then
there’ll be no Gazoot at all’, said
the chastened McLeak. “You can
finish the column”.

After McLeak left, McGosh decided there was nothing to be done
at a late date, and let the copy go.
The scene now changes to McCurdy’s as McLeak dashes in with

sqme copy.
“There is a certain group on the
campus”, he began, “which by

exerting foul means, has libelled

me by ruining...
CENSORED

(I am sorry folks, that these
events must occur. It is another
in the Canadian scene
which is rapidly going to pieces
these days. I will.do my best to
control any future outbursts by McLeak. Sincerely, Gazoot Editor, J.
Cricket McGosh).

Sign in a Grocery Store

The world is coming to an end.
Please pay your bills now so we
won’t have to hunt all over Hell for
you.— Ubyssey.

Professor: “I won’t start this lecture until this room settles down.”

Voice from Class: “Better go home
and sleep it off.”

: —The Brunswickan.

Ode to an Oyster
Happy is the oyster!
He stays in bed for good
And if he ever comes out
He generally gets stewed.
Ubyssey.

>

 

TWh,
A

Fe} °

A
i, SMOWSEY

Well, it has been two weeks since
I have been at the old typewriter
and during this time I have been replaced by such notables as T-Square
(who’s he?) anl Catty (right up my
alley).

Pe

 

     
 
   

NUTT ITLL
a

CN ;

hi
'

x

 

* * *

Well, I guess old Knowsey had
better start with broken romances.
Now let me see, oh yes,about Art
and Patsy, whatever did happen
there? Neither of them seem to be
loosing any time over it but they
sure were a cute couple. The Sadie
Hawkins dance certainly was a surprise to Knowsey. We didn’t hear
Art L. calling for Jessie once.
Could that be because Norma gave
him such a swell time? Zen certainly gets around, first Kay, than
Shaky, and now Peggy. What a
horrible life!

¥ * of

Now maybe a look at the new
romances croping up might ease
the tension. Who was that wideshouldered caballero that Liz escorted to the dance? It was good to see
Kelly back in action again after the
basketball games last Saturday
night. Roger Kel.

It seems that a few of the romances are still going strong as Kay
and Doug and “Julian” and Margot.
It was good to see the Meds up here
on Saturday night; it wasn’t so good
when they started to take all the
women away from the local boys. ..

* *

The Meds are at last -hitting this
column, what with Monk and Nancy,
Gordon Algee and Fay McLellan,
Key and Norma and Don Vatour and
Marg, it looks like we have the real
thing.

ey ke

Knowsey has been asked to make
the following announcement: Any
girls who have any free nights please
send in a schedule to Knowsey of
the Gazette office as we are trying
to get wee Burnie Creighton a girl
and he wants to try them all.

# * *

Knowsey wonders if love has at
last lodged itself in Jackie Sidel of
“Cod’s Own Country.” He was
heard murmuring “Hefto” all
through History Class Monday.
Surely he wasn’t talking like that
about Prof. Wilson.

“ar
Knowsey got to thinking (yeah I
‘ean think) and he wonders if it
wouldn’t be wise to get Prof. Mercer

SF nor

One of MacKeen’s little charges
knocked timidly at the Gazoot Office
and, growing. shy at the sight of a
mattress-covered table, beckoned to
His Lordship. Whispers followed:

  

“ .|.. Charman Cousins... engineer
. Sadie Hawkins .. . please,
Mister, don’t print it!” She wasn’t

alone in her thoughts, however, for
Cous is still mumbling, “Blasted
telephone dates; when will I learn to
say ‘no’?”

xs * *

Art will have to watch his step
from now on, Jessie having served
notice that she is available. Last
Wednesday she broke the ice by taking Bryce; anyone else interested ?

le"

Most interested listener to the
special lecture on the new. Dartmouth ferry docks was Looie who,
when it comes to ferries, knows all
the angles (and corners). He hopes
that the shock absorbers to be installed will have sufficient spring to
bounce him back across the harbour,

 

to work out some simple date system for boys and girls. It would be
interesting as well as instructive,
and the two could probably get
through a quick French I course on

the date.
aa é *

Knowsey wonders if maybe the
girls at the hall aren’t a bit jealous
because they weren’t asked to take
a leading part in the Munro Day
Show. It is too bad that a little
co-operation can’t be had in this
college. I for one didn’t know that
the Hall girls were so fastidious,
and, looking over my column for the
last few issues I don’t think that
they have a “H—” of a lot to talk
about.

 

You Are Invited to Visit

Phinney’s Sheet
Music Department

where you will always find
the newest popular songs
as well as the finest standard and classical numbers.

 

 

You're my kind.. - Have a Coca-Cola

     
  
     

 
 
  

yA | hy lt : |

3 I \\\

eas wi allies enjoy a ne pause

\

\\i ( 1, * ‘ \
WC tS ne La

 

Friendliness enters the picture at the words ‘Have a Coke.

It’s a happy custom, everywhere, for people to meet together

over frosty bottles of ice-cold Coca-Cola. In many lands
around the globe, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes

—has become an everyday

people of good will.

_ ‘The Coca-Cola Company of Canads, Limited, Halifax

high-sign of friendliness among

~ Ky A ‘a 3
MINN
A AN

    

It’s natural alfor popular names to
ee oa ees bbreviations.

t's w hear -Cola
9 called Coke.

692

 

tickets running into a lot of money
in the course of forty years.

It is clear that Morgan has yet to
learn that nothing must stand in the
way of, a fellow engineer’s wellbeing. There is a possibility that in
refusing to let a couple of the boys
join him in the Capitol queue Saturday night, he was less fearful of the
doorman than of the secrets of his
past they might reveal to his escort.

 

 

 

 

CASINO

Starting Saturday, March 10

 

and His Orchestra

VICTOR MOORE
ANNE MILLER

 

“None But The
Lonely Heart”

“Casanova Brown’

 

f i i an x
+ eee ES Ee

~ 2k, jade nga Te

a AD
Seg ee

ey eee > Soa

* * *

This is an explanation for Gif’s
shivers and pants every few min
He really cannot be blamed,

Gif, unaccustomed to female
habits, was embarrassed when Patsy
shivered out of her pants (basketball of course).

Reactions to last week’s Bulletin:
Blower, My old man found ten misspelt words .
relieved! my nother just laughed .
Fifteen others, It was lousy. What
happened to the piece I wrote?

. Proc, Gosh, was I

rt
at aye

 

ORPHEUS

MON.-TUES.-WED.

“MEET MISS BOBBY SOCK”

“CYCLONE ROGERS”

 

THURS.-FRL-SAT.
“BLUE BEARD” |
“NEVADA”

GARRICK

SAT.-MON.-TUES.
“BLOOD FEVER” 7

 

WED.-THURS.-FRI.

“LADY HAMILTON”

and
“DRUMS”

  

  

*

ONE WEEK

  

  

“CAROLINA
BLUES”

with

KAY KYSER

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

MON.-TUES.-WED.

 

  

 

  

Cary Grant

 
 

THURS.-FRLI.-SAT.

  

  

with

    
 

Gary Cooper
 
 

y Henle over the
of the basketball
t five games. Out of
save won four while
‘the league-leading
iby 9 points. In our}
e have’ beaten Debert
one point, Acadia by
ount A by two points,
y one point. It cer| to see a Dal team in
column for a change.
ee

Y.M.CA. Downs Tigers
Jn First Play-off Match

*In a fast, closely-contested game,
. ike t to congratulate the| the Y.M.C. A. defeated Dalhousie
ns on the fight they dis-| Tigers by a score of 28—23 last
their recent games with| night to go one up in a best-of-five

‘The second team made aj series for the Nova Scotia Senior
meback to finally win by a| Playdowns. Dal will have their
a of 9-17.. The senior team, al- “hacks to the wall” in the next
: h losin sing thei? game, displayed | game, as they will play on the As
; ht than usual and we would | sociation floor.
2 a eredit to Norma Sher-| The game started slowly, with.
in particular for the. fighting | close checking on both sides, Y. M.

t she di ©. A. ran up a small lead and man
aged to keep it until the end of the.

phate to lead 11—10,

Dal worked hard in the second
eanto to gain a six point lead, which
they held until two minutes of play
were left. The Association applied
pressure and scored six quick baskets and cleverly handled the ball,
to win the game, 28—23.

Cooley and Pope played steady
ball for the losers, while McLeod, a
former Dalhousian, and Melnnes
were the pick of the “Y” crew,.

Dal—Farquhar 4, Dunlop 4, Cunningham 6, Cooley 3, Giffin, Pope 8,
Smith 3, Robinson, Algie and Clark.

———

r ~ of five series with the
. for the Nova Scotia Prompionships. If the boys

Ta toni
S58

roa it is possible that

ta
4

o ton for a ya and a
char “ona at Dal. We only hope
he or this: series we get as many
supporters as we have had in recent
a This should not be too
hte ask for, |
nee | Munro Day Program
| AFTERNOON
2.00-2.30 — Annual Basketball |
game girls ys boys
2.30-3.00 — Inter-faculty boxing
‘match
3.15-3.45—Musical quiz
4.00-5.00—Square dance
5.00-6.00—Sing-Song
§.00-7.00—Supper served in lower
Gym, 35¢ per person

 

 

a oncre

3 and keen interest has
these matches. There are
e. ‘ew entries in all matches
th s year and credit is due to Vir
a Phillips for the grand job that
doing. The mixed doubles
aments are better represented
they have been in recent years ||

‘ud helps a lot in making the EVENING
ment a success both athletic- 7.15-7.30 — Introduction of new
Council
7.30-9.00 — Glee Club musical
comedy

Speakers: Mr. Murray Rankin
for Alumni

Surgeon Commander MacKenzie, originator of a program
on Munro Day

Presentation of Gold D’s

Connolly Shield *

Pan-Hellenic Award

Malcolm Honor Award

10.00-1.00—Dance, Jerry Naugler’s Orchestra

REV. MALCOM RANSOM
i “yg different faculties repre- (Continued from page 1)

Pi eS: A lot of fun could be had| what is good; and wnat does the
; Nal and perhaps the Frosh could Lord require of thee but to do justeng themselves for the defeat ly, and to love mercy, and to walk

humbly with thy God?” Today, the

was is but a symptom of man’s condition. Moreover, all our peace plans

Be e. Still there is bound to be
; competition when Bill Pope

would like to hint here at an
ofrwarded to us by a few of the

a th < a and we were haan
t when and if the weather gets a

f iy | r
THON . we ae get the girls to
enter the league and really have

on e fun with the idea, They tell

Dd

arms, while the real solution is
something more fundamental, and
we can see from the past that each
war has created more problems than
it has solved.

he ae posi at the Hall. What say
girls you can’t lose? It certainly
wou lead to a lot of fun and ex‘e vig and might stir up some
, er the ever-growing college

 

RETURN MATCH
In a yery close and exciting game
played in the gym last Thursday, the
| Meds became the leader of the interfaculty basketball league by turning
back the Engineers 19-18.
| he Eng. started fast in the first
||| half‘and at the end of it they led 11| 7. In the second half, however, the
Meds came to life and Deacon, Stevenson and Darcy led the scoring
parade, The Engineers lost the
game through their inability to sink
penalty shots as they missed 14 out
Vy Ht ofa possible 16 chances. ;

ATTENTION!

There will be a meeting of the
Class of "47 in Room 3 of the Arts
Building at 12 noon on Pes

: March ae,

 

7 Say a hee

aim to produce peace by force of

MEDS EKE OUT ENGINEERS IN)

itethac Challenge Wiisiy

The outstanding sports feature on
the Munro Day program promises
to be the basketball game between
the Varsity hoop stars and an allstar representation from the Interfacutly Basketball league. Recently
the varsity team was challenged to
play such a match and they are all
ready and willing to take on all
comers.

The Interfaculty Team will boast
such players as Ken McLennan,
former Mt. A. varsity performer.
Gus Oakley, who played on Dal’s
senior squad two years ago, Doug

Tigers Win Handily
Over King's Cagers

Dal Tigers captured an easy victory from H. C. M. S. Kings on
Wednesday afternoon by a score of
47-26. After the first five minutes
the Tigers were never in danger,
although the Kings quintet put up a
stiff battle.

In the first half Kings opened the
score column but Dal came back
fast taking advantage of many fast
breaks to score time and time again.
In the second frame a zone defence
worked by Kings was used to some
advantage, and the Dal forwards
were checked more closely. However
the ability of Dal to guard and culminate on fast breaks told the talle
and the game ended Dal leading
47-26.

Ralston and Cooley starred for the
collegians while Allen, elongated
centre of the Kings squad led the
tars’ attack,

Line-up; Pope, 2; Farquhar, 11;
Smith, 8; Ralston, 14; Robinson;
Dunlop, 8; Cooley, 4; Giffen.

5

Meds Lead in
Ice, Hoop Leagues

The medicos, boasting material
suitable for Varsity teams are leading in both the basketball and
hockey Interfaculty leagues. In the
basketball loop they have only lost
one encounter while winning five.

| In the hockey league they have yet
| to lose and have won two games.

On Friday the Meds meet the Engineers for the Interfaculty hockey

championship in a sudden death
match,
League Standings:
Basketball
Won Lost Points

Meds haan! 5 1 10
Pe ys Oe a eae 4 2 8
BOS fh dieulp ase « 3 3 6
Arts & Sci 0 6 0

Hockey

Won Lost Tied Pts
Meds) iasee se. 2 0 2 6
Leg VW Gai thd 1 5
IUPOSH | dhs dss 2 2 0 4
Pine Bye isan) i 2 1 2
Arts & Sei. .. 1 3 0 2

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

Clarke, who has played for Memorial
and Dal, Stevenson, who has been
leading the Med scoring parade, Al
Deacon, Mt. A. product and many
others who are up to. varsity
standard.

Many people about the campus
have conjectured that a picked team
could outplay the senior quintet

while others say that the Varsity
team will take the game with ease.
The game should arouse more interest than any others have this season—it promises to be a battle royal.

'Racqueteers Lose to

Peregrine Stars

Wednesday evening eleven  badminton players from, Dal were
guests of Peregrine. There were
nine games played, three men’s
doubles, three ladies’ doubles and
three mixed doubles. Dal lost six
matches and won two ladies’ doubles
and one mixed double. Due to the
lack of time we will be unable to
have Peregrine at Dal for a return
match this year.

They stood on the porch at midnight
Their lips were tightly pressed

Her old man gave the signal

And the bulldog did the rest.

—The Brunswickan.

 

   
       
   
   
 

  

    

an areas:

eck what you you ward U1 @ 3
COLORED PENCIL \)
i's

STRONG POINTS S

THAT STAND UP oe

BEAR DOWN ae

&

NON-CRUMBLING =

LEADS THAT TAKEA |

PERFECT POINT e

s

:

 
 
     
   
 

RABILITY
eaves | GET THEM ALL
VOWER 4000

poInt ---*

   

vf

  

“CHEMI-SEALED"
EnITHIN |
Wicotoreo pencus |

S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL
COKE

| alias, N. 8.

“ “A me, 4 *

oe
ae ‘

    
 

a os) :

  

+ SOFT COAL

FUEL OIL

|

Sone ape eee.

 

 

 

Meg eae ry
Te nl i ‘ oe Bee

‘

Fay” ate er eis
F WF

    

Tigers Eke Win Cue
St. Kit’s 31.30

In a thrilling game played Friday
noon at the Dal gym the Dalsters
made a remarkable comeback to
down a navy team by a score of al
30.

In the first half the Dal boys had
hard luck under the basket and at
the end of the first half the sailors
led by a score of 14-7. At the start
of the second half the navy boys
kept going strong but at last the
Dal boys made a determined effort
and Coach Burnie Ralston garnered
20 points to lead the team to a surprise victory. Giffen starred on
guard and netted six points to keep
up his seoring record.

Lineup:

Farquhar, Ralston 20, Dunlop,
Cooley 2, Giffen 6, Pope 3, Robinson.

  
    
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
    
   
      
  
 
  
    
   
    
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
  
 
 
  
 

Dal Girls Divide
Honors With Mt. A.

Mt. A. co-eds visited Dal last
weekend and two return basketball
matches were played. The first
game was close and hard-fought
with Dal’s second team gaining a
well-earned 19-17 victory. The whole
team fought like tigresses with Lois
Rattee deserving special credit for
pinch-hitting as a forward and
turning in an outstanding game.

 

She called her boy friend Pilgrim
because every time he took her out
he made a little progress,

The Brunswickan.

Line-up: L. Rattee, I. Robinson,
U. Phillips, J. Gilper, N. Silver, M.
Macpherson, H. Prentice.

Jerry Naugler’s
Orchestra

The second game betwenn the two
first teams ended in a 24—14 win
for Mt. Allison, The game was very
close until the last few minutes of
play when Mt. A. forwards sank
three baskets. Dal was playing
without the services of Captain Ann

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

 

Saunderson. Laurie Bisset was the THE
outstanding player on the Dal team. R >
| osedale Nurseries
Line-up: P. Jones 6, J. Hart 4, N. HALIFAX DARTMOUTH

Sherman 4, J. Robertson, L. Bisset,

381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
S. Pentz,

111 Spring Garden Rd. H-2200

s

 

—~—

/

eens wren j
i

SV a a a a “SS |

 

“DRESS UP”

IN A SMART FELT HAT

FROM EATON'S

OMPLETE your Spring outfit with a good-looking felt hat,

chosen at EATON’S.... Our range of felts offers a selection
for young men as well as models for those of more conservative
taste. Each 4.75 to 7.50.

SSO aS a ee ee

EATON’S Men’s Wear Department—Main Floor

¢T.EATON C°__.,

MARITIMES

 

   

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

 
