     
   
  

“*

as

 

  

ah,

out of ammunition, but keep right

_ Sodales, the University’s Debating

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 6, 1944

es Struggle For Higher Education

 

 

CAMPUS.
CLIPPINGS

by GRAHAM BATT

  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
    
   
    
     
   
  
   
   
   
    
 
 
  
   
   
   
    
      
    
  
  
  
  
     
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
     
     
         
     
   
 
 
   
   
    
     

 

A new term has rolled around,
and as the Frosh trip about the
campus resplendent in their regalia,
we should like to remind those who
regard it as an unnecessary burden
placed upon them. by revengeful
Sophs, that all over Canada by immortal custom, Frosh are being: introduced te college life by similar
activities... 4
% Be oe
In The Manitoban we found the
following account of someone’s vacation, called
Summer Activities

Whatcha doin?

Jis sittin.

Nothin to do?

Plenty to do,

Thinkin whatcha

Gonna do?

No. Thinkin could

ase ee Oe year older—

Bore and after viewing our new
Jis sittin. wilted.

kk |e

On Friday at noon the annual
“Frosh” meeting was held in the
Chem theatre where the “Frosh”
class was introduced to Dalhousie
campus life. Professor Bennett: welcomed the new students on behalf
of the Faculty and short speeches
were given by representatievs of
Delta Gamma, D.A.A.C., D.GA.C.,
Glee Club, Engineering, Arts and
Science, Commerce, Sodales, Ghzette,
President of the Student Council,
Miss Leonard, Coach Ralston, and

According to The Ubyssey nefarious activities are taking place at
U.B,C. Inter-Frosh relationships are
being watched carefully by a Campus Gestapo, and the findings are
bein turned over to the Society for
the Promotion of Extreme Cruelty
to Freshmen. And so, Dal Frosh,
be thankful for the tender solicitude
shown you by your kindly seniors.

: * of *

We read again that a Bostonian

was showing a visiting Briton !

Around. “This is Bunker Hill monu-|Freshette representative on the Stument — where ‘Warren fell, you|@ent Council.

know.” At half past eight on Friday |

The visitor surveyed the lofty
shaft thoughtfully, and then said:
“Nasty fall. Killed him, of course?”

* x * °

In the McGill Daily we find the
following evidence of the ee
training.

C.0.: “Now tell
strategy ?”

Buck Private: “It’s wacen you’re

evening, September 29th, the portals
of Shirreff Hall were stormed by
“Frosh”. With sweet, innocent and
unexpecting faces the stars of the
week filed into the girls’ residence,
humbly presented their two dollars
and were bestowed with lovely pieces
of cardboard, exquisitely shaded in
gold, on which their names were
printed.

me ape is


The girls received dainty aprons,
and the always helpful upper classmen, trying to bring them up to the
Dal standard of glamour, suggested
that they Wear odd shoes, socks and
pigtails and refrain from the use of
cosmetics which in several centuries
are certain to leave their skin dull
and lifeless.

on firing.”

 

Free Dinners __
At Hall Cafeteria

Any student who wants to eat
regularly can do so for nothing except exercise if he goes to see Miss
MacKeen. She is looking for a few
healthy men to act as stationery engineers in the kitchen at the Hall,
where ‘they have an engine that
takes the dirt off dishes. All you
do is put them in and take them out;
and you only work every second day,

See Miss MacKeen for further details.

_ After much discussion on behalf
of the freshmen, we decided that it
was quite unjust for the boys not to
haye the same opportunity to show
their better (?) points as the freshettes have; and so.they have been
allowed to roll their pants up above
the knees, and thus, with their hair
parted in the middle and swish bow
ties, they gained a completely new
personality.

Interfaculty D ebates | _ ‘The dunce was really a great success. Everyone was happy, at least
almost ‘everyone.: You see, some of

1e upper classmen arrived on the
seene and, sad to relate, they turned
into wall-flowers. May we state here
and row eno nothing in the con
_ Society, will hold a meeting to elect
officers for the new season. The
sy o be held pewesday at

in e
a word of advice to our typical

ee

*,

*

so 7

¥ ae A zi Le.
tS ue dap ree !

wa

Frosh in Throes of Initiation Week

 

EN ROUTE TO AN ENGLISH 2 LECTURE
This representative group of grinning frosh was snapped by The Gazette
photographer. Judging from the demure expressions of this regalia-clad
assemblage, the freshman class has embarked on a new phase of life
wholly devoted to academic pursuits.

Much as we all hate to face the horrible truth, we must
be brave and accept the simple fact that we are now a whole
ah, yes, last year’s freshettes are no longer fresh,
pigtailed friends we feel definitely

I a

!

 

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Registration

Shows Increase

Once again Dalhousie campus has
come to life. Gaily and weirdly
dressed “Frosh” may be seen dash
‘ing hither and yon on the walks of

our beautiful campus, while staid
upperclassmen stroll nonchalantly
to classes or wander about “Froshbaiting”. Similar scenes are taking
place these bright September days
on campi across this great Dominion
of ours.”

Dalhousie authorities could not
furnish exact figures for this year’s
registration when visited by the
GAZETTE reporter. Registration is
a fluctuating business and wartime
conditions make it more so. Nevertheless much illuminating information was given for publication.

Registration in the Faculty of
Arts and Science is up this year in
spite of wartime restrictions. An
appreciable increase over last year’s
registration speaks well for the future of Arts and Science. (Engineering is considered under this heading.)

Medicine and Dentistry remain
fairly constant over a period of
years, and this year is exceptional
only in the large number of applications for entrance into these faculties. These applications were carefully considered and the yearly quota
filled. Most, if not all Maritime universities ure represented.

The Faculty of Law reports an increase over last year in the number
of fizst year students. Most of second and third year students have
returned,

Total registration this year shows
an increase of some half a hundred
students over last year.

A few points of general interest
may be noted. The Office reports
that the third day’s registration in
Arts and ‘Science was one of the
heaviest in the history of the Uni‘versity. Another point is the pres
ence among the new crop of students, of veterans of the present
war.

ee essssSsSssSsSSsSsS9S9S989893939399sciiiiaaaa RR
——<$<—$$—$

CAMPUS CAMPUS CORPS
RE-ORGANIZED

The representations, on the campus, of Canada’s three armed services, are now in the midst of
organization and preparation of
training programs for the coming
year. The general attitude of the
training officers of the three units
is of an expectation of a more advanced and practical training syallabus for both new and old members
of these units.

MAJOR FAULKNER in an interview this week expressed the hope
that training in the C.O.T.C. would
include all the latest weapons for
lecture purposes and several of them
for actual training. He went on to
say that, although Lt. Col F. H. M.
Jones M.C. remains in command of
the unit, there had been some changes in the A.T.C. staff which will include this year C.S.M. Nicol and
Sergeants Ellridge and Burnee. C.
S.M.’s Flood and Lockhart, known to
many members of last year’s corps,
have been transferred to other posts.
This year all members of the C.O.T.
C. and all recruits will undergo a
thorough Active Army medical examination at number six district
depot. This examination will include
M. testing and X-ray, and will begin
Saturday, Oct. 7, and continue over
Sunday. Dinner being served Sunday at No. 6 D.D.

* * *

FLIGHT LT. COMEAU, when approached by the Gazette, had high
praise for last spring’s V.A.T.C.
camp which was held at the R.C.A.
F.. stations near Moncton. The personnel of the No. 16 V.A.T.C. spent
the summer at various R.C. A. F.
posts in the Maritimes. Classes for
the members of last year’s unit
were resumed on Tuesday morning.
Training and syllabus for the coming year being about the same as
last year.

Lieut. Comeau stated that no
ground crew are being recruited this
year, and those not passing their
medicals will be taken on strength
in the C.O.T.C. “Altogether,” he
said, “it appears to be a very promising year for the U.A.T‘C.”

°K * &

LT. COMMANDER F. R. HAYES,
of the U.N.T.D., in a statement this
week to the Gazette had hopes for
a larger unit this year and promised
a new syllabus for second year
members of the U.N.T.D. which
would include about 30%. revision
—the remainder being new work.
“Conditions for enlistment will be
the same as last year, and all applicants must be 1745 or over. All
training this year will take place on
naval property, students will be taken hy busses to H.M.C.S. Haligonian
and the Seamanship training school
—H.M.C. Deckyard. The hours will
be fixed as nearly as possible to suit
the students; the number of hours
will be the same. Students registered in pre-professional courses will
be enlisted, but will be discharged
on entering their courses.” Last
year was the first for this unit on
the campus, and although enlistment
was small it proved very successful,
ihe said.

Gazette

STUDENT PUBLICATION

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

 

Frosh!!
Work
Now for

Your
Gazette D

 

 

* * * *

Scores Indifferent Attitude’
Of Students and Educators

*, Stanley in his address to the Univ ersity, students and
some eae of the teaching staff, said that ‘although “no
weakening of purpose about higher education” at Dalhousie
could be detected, ‘‘a pretty general disintegration” in branches
of higher learning could be observed elsewhere. The President
urged the students to determine the “endless difference between
getting a living and living the’ good life’.

At ea a ea

f Zt President Stanley said in his opening remarks that “it is one of the
pleasures of my life, one of the
happiest duties connected with my
office, to meet the members of the
|University at the season we begin
afresh.” “The Freshmen,” Dr. Stan|Stanley said, “have a great responsibility in making themselves worthy
lof the Dalhousie of the past.”

“Rew universities have had a
‘career at once so all-starred and so
‘triumphant as ours,” the President
isaid. He cxplained that “our triumph has the maintenance,
through thick and thin, of certain
ideas: the idea of Tolerance;. the
idea that intelligenée should be’ fostered and given an opportunity in
this part of the world, as it has

been

 

 

been fostered in Scotland, among
poor and rich alike; and not least
Urges Students the conviction that these ideas de
pend upon higher education having
a real content and character—based
upon the great literature of the
world, and the scientific aspirations
and achievements of mankind.”

Dr. Stanley said “it became plain
in 1933 that education and life were
perishing in Germany.” Ever since
1933, said the President, “higher
education has sunk to a lower and
lower ebb in this country. The real
cause of “the deterioration or higher
education, I am driven to believe, is
that those who have to do with
higher education, or have the opportunity to do with it, have folded
their hands and floated with the
stream—with any stream or tide—
of fashion, prejudice, materialism,
or bigotry. They have gone in heav
Support Gazette

I am gratefful to the editor of the
Dalhopsie Gazette for asking me,
once again, to say a word in the
opening issue of the yeaar. This
time, my word is about the Gazette
itself. Not many things. have improved the period of the war, but.
the Gazette has certainly improved
greatly. Good sense, good taste,
and good writing have distinguished
it, and many of the editorials and
articles have had a marked literary
quality.

It is to be hoped that the new
students, in all faculties, who have
joined us this year will not be slow
in making their contribution. From
the time they arive, they are joint
proprietors of the students’ paper. |ily for “non-intervention while
I cordially wish the editors aniwk)dunces and boors have denounced
all the supporters of the Gazette an-|the great literature, and the seminal

other very successful year. ideas and theories of ancient Greece,

CARLETON STANLEY, as a proper study for Canadians.”
President. (Continued on page 2)

 

 

DALHOUSIE INSTITUTE OF
PUBLIC OPINION

| DIP

What should we do with Germany and the Germans after we
win the war?

Strict Allied Military Government and extermination of all confirmed Nazis, 50% Mass education ef all Germans for Democracy will
solve the problem, 20%. Kill all Germans since there is ne hope of educating any of them for democracy, 10%. Subdivision of Germany to
weaken her nationalism, 10%. Remainder queried ranged from those
suggesting slow, painful tortures to these who thought that the mere fact
of defeat would be sufficient punishment and deterrent for the Germans.

 

 

What, in your opinion, does Dal need more than anything else?

85% of Upperclassmen polled thought that what Dal needed more
than anything else was more college spirit and a men’s residence. D.I.P.O.
has it from “a source close to the university” that the residence will materialize within the very near future, but spirit must come from the
students themselves The lack of spirit deplored by persons polled was
not only the spirit which is evidenced by cheering at football games.
That is only one aspect of college spirit. The spirit we lack chiefly is the
imaginative, creative, constructive and progressive spirit which is needed
for al lthe other extra-curricular activities o nthe campus.. Football flops
without college spirit. ee But it is exactly the same way with all
other phases of campus life.

T i . A
‘ a lt Ses.

=

a
Mies,

     
 

   
   

  

       
      
    
   

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
' Editor-in-Chief
«JIM McLAREN (4-2236)
— Peatures
= ~BOB McCLEAVE

| PETER DONKIN

Literary
JOHN HIBBITTS

emt ty Sports Photography
IMAN ALEX FARQUHAR ERROL MacDONALD
iro we BLBTy MINGO|
BUSig eras Ai Reportorial
i) Ges GRAHAM BATT ee) By.
f CAMPBELL
ak AL LOMAS
ss Business Manager
- FRED MARTIN (38-5036)

PREAMBLE TO PUBLICATION
a (adivorin] summary of Gazette aims and policies for the year)
. Dalhousie Gazette returns to the campus in its 76th
ublication and with it comes the traditional summary
‘ial aims and policies for the ensuing year.
is generally the case with an incoming executive, a staff
ring Gazetteers feels capable of fulfilling unprecedented
2s during its tenure of office. So, while inwardly conthat 101 complications may arise nice-sounding phraseis translated into factual reality—the editor invariably
les a utopian staff policy in the first edition.
‘We, the 1944-45 executive of The Gazette adhere to the
ion of “preamble” but insist our aims and policies are
_ progressive and practicable. However, we will let this
succeeding issues of our paper speak for themselves.
- Firstly, you will notice some practical innovations in the

ette format with each page sporting a bright new coat of

iF
i

Ree) :
Secondly, to develop a more complete and coherent news
erage of both Studley and Forrest, we have recruited comt representatives of Medicine, Law, Engineering and Arts
ience who will be held responsible for the every day actiof their respective faculties. In addition to this “spot
i's reporting, each of these news-mongers will furnish us
‘ publication every second week in our

th gossip columns for
0-issue schedule. _
_ Thirdly, News, Sports, Features and Literary editors have
slete charge of their departments while the addition of a
_ Circulation Manager to the staff ensures a systematic, weekly
— dist nage of Gazettes to the various points on our revised
; In all, by soliciting more whole-hearted support from Dalh and every member of the editorial staff, our goal is the
usie students and by evenly distributing Gazette work among
and every member of the editorial staff, our goal is the dement of a versatile, readable, interesting publication which
s truly representative of student enterprise.
___ Editorially speaking, it is our principal aim, as trustees of
1e Gazette, to support an open expression of campus opinion
with a view to the continued prosperity of Dalhousie University
ANC the progressive interests of its student body.

. Ot ik

| The éditor’s MAILBOX

rges Frosh Backing To

=
ee Ma “Banner Year’’ of Activities
| wi | On behalf of the Student Body I would like to express a hearty
Re ow lcome to the freshettes and freshmen at Dalhousie University.
By) s We are very glad to have you among us even though you might
Ry. Ki t think so during your first week or so here. When your initia_ tion period is over you will be full fledged members of our Student
- Body, and I would like here and now to put forward to you some
of the things which our students in the past few years have fallen
|}. down badly in here at Dalhousie, and in which I am hoping your
dy class will correct. In doing so, perhaps you can, by your enthusth jasm, bring the rest of the students in line with yourselves or at
east start the ball rolling.
W i at I am harping on mainly are two big weaknesses in our
Ste dent Body. First, is our college spirit which is sadly lacking.
; | Most of the smaller Universities in the Maritimes and the larger

4
} Ly

a
Ny dt ones in other parts of Canada would put us to shame, They would
|| not thin | of letting one of their teams go on the field or basketball
- floor without their full Support and by support I am not referring
| fin nei Se. They go to the games and yell their heads off for their
am, and this is something that our teams here need very badly.
Wi can’t we get the Same co-operation here? Our teams are just
|| 88 good (if not better) and it is highly discouraging to a team to
olay a game with no fans behind it, especially when the other team
é ted on and on. So what do you say freshmen, let’s get
get behind our team right from the start. It costs you
hing and makes the games much more fun for everyone. This

for you upper classmen too. ;

The second item I want to bring out is just as important as the
irst a id concerns student meetings and societies. When a student
is called it’s usually for your own benefit, so make an effort
and fight for your rights. Also make it a point right now to
least one of the various societies on the campus. There are
> hoose from such as the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club,
Sodale: ete. Surely some of your extracurricular activie one of these. I know the freshettes are nice. but
m all your spare time; give the upper elassmen a

:
.

‘Song is this, support your teams to the limit,
gs regularly, join some campus society and
er year as far as student activities go. You

aii Vieh?,
‘ \ Fg

: TU

would have no relevance to us. But,

oe pra ea Ce
1) ee a ere m a a
7 Le ' i
a . eae Apia!
vs

A af

a Th i" f ty Pei
ay ie SOF Wes:

at. EAN: sg or RTL rte

ate i i, 4

D ALHOUSIE GAZETT

if
el
G- bee} f

TEA WITH MRS. COPLEY

Up a feggy London street, one afternoon in August, hurried the
slight, brisk figure of a woman, scarcely visible against a background of
drifting fog. The figure belonged to Mrs. Bromford, an elderly Londoner, with snow white hair, and a face remarkably young for its age, in
spite of some very fine criss-cross lines that were like tiny cobwebs embedded in the skin. She wore a pale, mauve dress and over it, a grey
coat—prewar, and of particular well-woven tweed. Her deep, kindly grey
eyes glanced up frequently at the row of houses she was passing. They
bore a rather monotonous similarity, with stone facades built exactly
alike, and brass door knockers gleaming brightly on polished door frames.
Mrs. Bromford thought that even though a house appeared vague, and
indistinct through the fog, she could still identify it by the gleam of the
door knocker illuminating its entrance.

Mrs. Bromford had experienced a hard and difficult time of it since
the blitz. Her only daughter had been killed in one of the first bombing
raids over London, and since her daughter’s death, she had undergone a
number of illnesses, all of which, had been serious. Her friends considered it a miracle that her frail body had not collapsed completely. But
her indelible courage, and strong inner faith seemed to uphold her, and to
sustain the breath of continued life.

Now, as she walked through the turbid London fog, she was not
thinking of herself, but of Elizabeth Copley, who had once been an intimate friend of her daughter’s and on whom she intended paying a visit.
Elizabeth’s son, had been reported missing in France, three weeks ago,
and since that date, Mrs. Bromford had made several visits, finding consolation for her own griefs and troubles in the thread of hope she was
able to weave for Elizabeth—the hope that her son might still be alive.

Today, she had hesitated about making another visit. Yesterday a
robot bomb had fallen near the apartment house where she lived, and she
had been considerably shaken up by the noise and concussion. All morning, she had felt weak from shock, but she had promised Elizabeth that
she would come for tea in the afternoon and she did not want to break
her promise. Besides, she had dreampt last night, that Elizabeth’s son
was safe, and she felt she must make this dream an addition, to what
hope and encouragement she had already offered Mrs. Copley.

She paused before one of the large, gloomy stone houses, walked up
a brief flight of steps, and stood for a moment at the old-fashioned knocker, now a mere, decorative ornament. Then quickly, she rank a modernly
installed bell, and almost immediately the door was opened by a slim,
grey-haired woman with the familiar visage of Elizabeth Copley. Twin
lights glowed in her violet eyes when she saw Mrs. Bromford.

“Oh I’m so glad to see you” she exclaimed, “I was afraid you might
not come. I heard that a bomb had fallen in your neighborhood and I
thought you might be shaken up by it.”

“Yes, I was pretty badly shaken,” admitted Mrs, Bromford, stepping
into the narrow hallway and preceding to take off her coat: “But I’m
feeling much better now and besides, I always look forward to having
tea with you, especially when you serve it in such adorable cups and
saucers.”

Mrs. Copley smiled and ushered her guest into a small, but comfortably furnished living-room where, in spite of its: being August, a fire
had been kindled to ward off the dampness of the fog outside.

“I do appreciate your coming Mrs. Bromford,” continued Elizabeth.
“Nevertheless, the bomb coming so close to you must have given you a
bad scare.”

“Yes it did” replied Mrs. Bromford, seating herself by the fireplace;
“And the results from it were horrible. A whole houseful of people
killed or injured. The ambulances were screaming all night long.

“How ghastly,” exclaimed Mrs. Copley. “I wonder if J erry will ever
give up?”

(Continued next week)
ERNE NERS Sea LED SIDE 7 ACER aD Art th UM CRETE te ON Te RIAN

: CONTRIBUTIONS PLEASE

This year a new policy is going into effect in the Literary Department. It has been the opinion of former literary editors, and others, that

| this part of the Gazette is very probably the least read of any, to

offset this we urgently solicit contributions from our readers in all faculties. We desire to have the literary effort of as wide a representation
of students as possible, and we solicit especially those who like to write
and desire to see their efforts in print. All contributions printed count
toward the highly prized Literary D. Would you like to earn one? If
se, this is your opportunity. Send in that essay, short story, poem, or
book review NOW !
. THE LITERARY EDITOR

a an
FORSEES STRUGGLE— 2 good beginning at an education, in

Continued from page one that sense. Our libraries are well
The President continued: “These stocked, and their books have been

ideas include among other things |S¢lected under no sort of prescrip
i tion or interdiction.”
mathematics, and ,

music
poetry, philosophy, law and popular
government— the very fabric of a
rational life, as we conceive it. If

we Canadians had all migrated
hither from Baffin Land, or Patagonia, it would have been different,
and the things I have mentioned

science
‘ The deterioration of higher educa
tion, the President thought, “cannot
last forever.” “But there will be a
struggle ahead, if what I have called ‘our whole inheritance’ is to be
maintained.”

Dr. Stanley said that “a great
deal of mischief has been done
through the ‘apathy and cold-blooded
indifference of those concerned. But
surely,” continued the President,
“the study of how to live the good

the facts being what they are, any
dodging of such issues is like an invitation to escape from our own

wave-length, and our whole inheritance.”

- Any Dalhousie student, said Dr.
Stanley, “who had heard education

defined as coming to know the best

that has been said and thought in

‘the world,” could here make at least

life, and how to spread the good life
among one’s fellows, lies close to the
focal purpose of education.” No

one,” Dr. Stanley said, “has ever

been able to live the good life with
out wishing the good life for
others,”

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE
ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*

Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
oe

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

rom

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

A Word of Welcome

Readers of The Halifax
Herald and The Halifax
Mail turn to the sports
page of these great newspapers to read the newsy, interesting column
written by “Gee” Ahern
and known from one end
of the province to the
other as SPORTDOM.
This popular column will
feature college sports activities all season and
will be a source of information about college athletic activities,

The Halifax Herald

and

. ) so Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.
The Halifax Mail 3

Birks extend to newcomers and returning
students a cordial welcome to bring their
gift problems to Birks.

SOUR AONV

Come and visit —
even if you have no
problem.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE
73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courseg are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING
will be valuable aid in future years

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

Halhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships

Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standin leading to de
of M.A., M.Sc. ™ r we

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses.

The Professional Faculties

a 0
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy ‘an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about

\ $160 a year
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a year. ee

i Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully Supervised residential facilities for men.

fF

 
  

er October 6, 1944

* “FRESHETTES
FANTASTIC

Charmed to meet a fellow student who could so aptly

i

as

epitomize a situation, I turned to

ster with hairy legs exposed to h

after the disappearing form of a
the arm of an Engineer. |

“T knew that girl when she

a I have dated her for years, and

when I come to college.

human nature, I told him.

Women come primarily to college }1

to get an education, I said. In the) pretty ones, but we forgot to inBut I|timidate the men.
do not think we should allow an ob-|we were gray from carrying on the
jective approach to the subject to be| war effort at college.

long run, they get married.

obscured by results. Why do they
get married? Some old-fashioned
people might exclaim on the virtues
of romance, but that is more or less
sheer rot. Our modern young ladies
are too smart be driven along
that way.

Ae wi,
tO

The simple fact is that college
does not offer a young girl the train- |
ing she will need to establish herself
in the same category as the male
who leaves the University. Society
is inhibited against women as doctors, lawyers, and engineers. I bet
that 99% of the girls at Dalhousie
deplore the fact that they get nowhere with professional courses,
while the Arts and Science is also a
road to nowhere, as far as earning
a living is concerned. Business colleges teach women the job of being
the type-scribers of civilization, and

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

——s

 

Why, oh why?”
And so, dipping into my vast fund of experience with

ed me,
med spactacles,
severely like a feminine anti-bobby
socker.
viewed her that she came to Dal
to study, that she had never been
‘led in any subject in any class all the
time she was at high school, and she
|was goingn to continue to do so at
college.

to her doting mother in her old
age.
with interest.
pretty, and had none of this sophistiecated nonsense so prevalent among
girls with upper crust behind them.
I sincerely hoped’ she would get far.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

IS

Mf

see a mournful looking youngis knees. He was gazing sadly
freshette, who was clinging to

went to high school,” he said.
now I get the cold shoulder

nake any such mistake, and lose the
The third year,
I met one freshette that impressShe was wearing horn-rim
and was dressed

She told me when I inter
This no doubt would be a comfort

I followed the girl’s career
She really was very

She made no great steps to bridge

even that narrow gap between the
society of girls and that of boys.

 

 

    

The Mouthings of
Paracelsus The Great

September 12, as any fool must

know. For the benefit of those who
do not have the good of the commonwealth at heart and consequently keep no close watch on the doings
of the medical school, there are now
four classes enrolled, namely first
year, second, third, and fifth years.
Of course the first year class is interesting because
among its number are as many as
three of feminine gender . . to quote
an eminent professor, “The moral is
obvious.” ...

full swing. The book store is under
the
Madden, Doug. MacKenzie, and...
of course, the indominantable Redmond.
Aesculapius may buy all forms of
texts, new and old.
“the true university is a collection
of books”.

have its first meeting, and it is hoped
that this year it will not go
of other years, and suffer

the students.
boards for notices of its meetings,
and attend, so that the society may

when
notes are falling on fertile soil, the

.

Without Prejudice

The students in the faculty of Law
are delighted to have Dean MacDonald back with them again this
year. As everyone on the campus
knows, the Dean filled a most important position in the Department
of Labor in Ottawa. During his absence, Mr. John Willis, who has since
taken a position at Osgoode Hall,
presided as acting Dean.

  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

Classes in medicine began on

The Law School is on its way back
—a going concern with more than
twice last year’s registration. This
year’s class includes men from all
walks of life — army captains, a
clergyman, engineers, and the odd
student. They have assembled from
various parts of the world—from the
tropics to the Arctic Circle (Newfoundland), but all in all they seem
like a fine group and doubtless the
Halls of Justice will some day ring
with their able judgments.

The Moot Court Sessions are
awaited withmixed feélings of terror,
anxiety, despair and triumph by the
various classes. For the third years
it means a triumphant elevation to
the seat of Justice—that coveted
prize, the bench. For those in second year it means only ‘““—sweat and
tears”, for to present a case before
the critical eyes and ears ‘of the
Third Year Class, newly arrived on
the bench, necessitates much filching
of phrases and legal “hokus pokus”
from the masterful judgments of
‘every law-giver from Moses to MacKenzie King. And the first years—
for them it is a novel experience,
and they cringe before the bench
offering their feeble remarks, trying
to curry favor with those oppressors

it is new, and

Naturally life in medicine is in

capable management of Stu

There all the children of

Ah, yes...

The Medical Society is soon to

the way
atrophy
part of
bulletin

because of neglect on the
Watch the

In these days
about mimeographed

serve its purposes.
ideas

society. has good purposes to serve.

It has been suggested that this
writer remind the first year class to
elect their officers, that is, if they

 

 

[moveor |[_

 

   

 

x whe. <j

oo

ae at a lower wage than any man could |She wore no cosmetics, did not walk ae already done so. Let the|_put all in vain—from the bench
work for. like a hussy, or seem visibly moved |sheep have shepherds. comes the almost inevitable reply;
Women are inevitably driven to|by the tempest of changing styles. The fraternities have had parties. |““Contempt of Court—Cokes for the
marriage, was my conclusion. Gradually, however, she acquired The tales one might spin if one had | Lord Justices.”
ee 8 a small male circle about her when |@ mind to spin them ... well, there | ——H——_________

a “Thank you, sir,” said the fresh- it became known that she was an (18 one student in third year and an- Gensler Aoi ai
iss Pua 4 Sot abe KE was very Benet BE forthright girl, ~ — uae = second who have chanted piano uaa atepounerneeies tat the
impressed. “But you haven't told what she meant and nee what she me teaching staff of Dalhousie Uni
me why my girl friend is leaving me said. I talked to a French professor |“‘Who is she that looketh forth as versity:

| 4 for an Engineer.” ree ete nee seuEhy bers ant ene een een In the Faculty of Arts and Science:

“Oh, I’m getting to that’,, I said he shovk his head and said, “That} Clear as the sun, Dr) M) Roy Foran
crossly. “The example I have given girl is like a European woman. She! Fair as the moon, hee: Verhan Cravtond
you is but one of many that can be has the charm of the ladies of| Terrible as an army with banners.” In the Faculty of Medicine:
: France. Monsieur, do you know that . Hr ;
found in the history of Society. In with French women — feel like a It will be interesting to note what Dr. Edgar C. Black
brief, the women’s mind has been| — y h Ay hae ids th Dr. D. J. Mackenzie
Ns : god, they make you the supreme ob- | "#PPens when they discover they

made submissive and is apt to be oe Tae un aed ek thee eed da hae aren eae Dr. Jessie A. Mackeod
without driving energies, because her a cael ne te sat caievcaad Hell, enough of this rot. Dr. Hugh M. Eaton
position is one at the fireside and ; are : es oo ee

we cradial Siok ak ee political helm and cosmopolitans express this opinion,

‘ ssi a ” and rate Canadian and American
“Yes. but why has my girl gone girls far behind such assorted feGuan as an Engineer?” males, as British, French, Russian
“Well. gomie balan Ee ENE RES and Chinese, in their tact at know
satahed man. Which reminds me, ing how to handle the male ego.
why has she gone over to an en- She graduated with high honors,
gineer ?” leading her year. Then, with all the
eo ee promise in the world for a bright
Freshettes is fantastic. I have|future, she married a very unsuit- |
met many in my several years at able man. She must have been
college. The first year I was a madly in love with him; he had not
« freshman, and there were several her wit, her chameleon quickness in
\ sturiners in the class. There was a|Suiting the mood of any time. He
meeting in the Chemistry Theatre | W@5 dull, he was stupid. His career |

and some fearful objects with pipes | W45 Unpromising.

came in and scared us to death, and| But that 1s a woman. Freshettes

«by the time we had recovered our|are not different; they add a bit of
energy, the stunners were taken. | variety to the assorted shapes and
The second year, we vowed not to sizes around us.
oe eg tN as a ae ncaa |

« D-Oer- rE - |

(Dalhousie Organ of Puerile Enigmas) |

| |
Question: What are artichokes and how should they be eaten?

Our Etiquette Editer, armed with notebook and ideas, made the rounds
of the campus for the following disappointing results. Lovely Wina Handina, freshette, stopped for our reporters after her first English 2 session.

a Obviously in a dazed condition, the child could do little more than dangle
a few participles: Yes, she said, she had heard of artichokes. No, she
eculdn’t remember where. “I'll go and quickly refer to my “Hanford,”
she lisped, splitting an infinitive.. When we left her she was avidly perus- 6. itiathas ‘you ‘examine vaem for
ing “Tl Penseroso”, but had not come across such a reference. beauty, for fine writing performance,

We next ran to earth a Freshman Engineer, but little could be gleaned for ink capecity. or = si excelfrom his broken mutterings. Spent, defeated, we crept back to our Gazette er ‘goa ens ways pass

oe ; ir to li rw é don’t know ourselves. as
office lair to lick our wounds. ae oy ee Fach We ae The Parker Pencil to match makes

; ” a writing set that you'll be proud to

Ques.: Do you miss bananas like that old sweetheart of yours: have both in school and in later life.
High in the lofty drafting rooms of the Engineering faculty we came Get teem . oe cae . x hr
across a Varga drawing of a large, pale yellow fruit reclining on a maroon to $16.50, Pencils to match $1.50 to

*%. velvet background. The aesthetic colour-conscious Engineers had chosen $7.00.
this their Picture-of-the-Week. Our ever-alert reporters seized this op- ; -_ Scar
portunity to find the general consensus of opinion on this pertinent and oo cy ,
absorbing subject. Bananas, it seemed, were a thing of their childhood— ar r . ta

~ a morsel, once obtained, to be treasured and handed down from generation | rie ; ‘
| to generation. i a pet ae a Quink - SPevacumaric——S>
y One little fellow slyly confessed he had seen his ather frame his las I Pens marked with the blue Diamond are
banana and hang it over his mantle above a bottle of one-hundred-and- Use ee Ign Sntntonal damage ubjectonly toner ie
ee 5 : ; f - 1s of 35¢ for tage, urance and handling, —
e fifty yeat whiskey. In the early days of the war, one sage graduate stu {: — Seana oo vided Sanplete bes fetarned for service. a

    

dent recalled, a few minute bananas of a repulsive green colour and a

pallid hue were available locally, but none have been seen since that time.

i
ae ( 8
2 * ; a ¥ ah Bs * x
-i rv Ve 2) ak » a ae a ‘* .
: + lle 4 ices

 

  
  

=

 
  

            
 

ui

 

 
 
 

 

    
  
  
  

  

THE WEEK]

TWO GIRLS AND A SAILOR:

MGM. Produced in the best
Metro tradition, “TWO GIRLS
AND A SAILOR?” is large, lavish
and lovely. The delightful plot

is magnificent for a musical, and
allows plenty of scope for the
leads, Van Johnson, Gloria DeHaven and June Allyson who
makes a stunning debut in her
first lead. The girl has more
wholesome charm than a dozen
sultrier glamour girls. She’ll be
a star in a year. Featured in
the film are Harry James with
Helen Forrest, Xavier Cugat with
Lina Romay (now under MGM
contract and being groomed for
stardom), and for the long-hairs,
Jose Iturbi. Lena Horne, and
Carlos Ramirez warble, not forgetting Virginia O’Brien, Jimmy
Durante and Ben Blue clown, and
there’s Gracie Allen running all
over the place like mad. The
film’s height of hilarity occurs
when Albert Coates conceives the
mistaken notion that Gracie Allen
is a concert pianist. The MGM
Recording Orchestra, Coates conducting, accompany Gracie in her
novel “Concerto for One Finger”.
S’wonderful! What if “TWO
GIRLS AND A SAILOR” is escapist? It’s currently the best
bet for your money and worth
double your admission fee. There
is not a dull minute in it; it’s
foolish but it’s fun. Joe Pasternak (“Thousands Cheer”) produced.

FROSH IN-THROES—

Continued from page one

 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 

  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
     
   
 
   
    
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
     
      
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  

MOUNTAIN AIR FOR
AND ORCHESTRA. Pier
| teux and the San Franci:
phony; Maxim Schapiro
Following the success.
Second Symphony -releas :
fall, Victor presents this three
record album, DM-913, The Sy:
phony is always absorbingnamic, yet not terse; melodic,
not lush. Mr. Monteux
another volatile reading an
Schapiro handles the piano
competently, if drily. —
BACH: “yi |
PRELUDE AND FUGUE IN BE
MINOR. (Transcribed by Stock)
Frederick Stock conducting
Chicago Symphony Orchestre
The ever-lovely “St. Anne” p
lude and fugal setting of |
hymn tune, “O God, Our Hel:
Ages Past” receives treatm
a brilliant transcription th
surprisingly faithful. All
vigour and fire are here plus
nuances of orchestral shadin;
Bach could never have imag
The late Mr. Stock and the
vago people at their best.- Vict
Album DM-958. (Two recorls).

POPULAR: COLE PORTER: ©
MEXICAN HAYRIDE:

Excerpts from the ce
Broadway success, well-sung
recorded. Cole Porter’s y
score receives vigour and g
from June Havoc (in her fi
Broadway lead) Wilber Evans
and Corrine Mura, with Mexic
A Deeca Album, li

    
   
   
   
  
  
     
   
    
     
  
   
   
   

 
 
   
  

  

  
  
 

  
 
  
  

   
  
    

  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
    
 
   
   
   
    

‘

 

      
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
  
    
 
 

  
   
   
    
 
    
  
   

  
  
   
    
 
   
   
 
    
  
 

 

  
    

  
   
 
 
   

    
  
   
 

   
   
   
    
   
 
   

 
  
  
  
 
   
    
     
  
  
   
  
   
  
   

   
  

  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

 

      
   
   
    
    
     
   

 
    
  
 

 

   
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  

    

.

  

he

, ft eres)
coven) bY a
4 '

‘

freshman. Please beware of “wolf
 

”

asses’, won’t you?

Our campus now looks like a gay
masquerade, or perhaps not so gay
if you ask a certain person who had
to sweep the gym store-steps with
a toothbrush, or the chap who spent oO
many minutes counting the number

:

Mounted Port i ;
are

ie
os Be
ral ne
Fr ay
Ex

of stones in a certain monument.

ORPHEUS

Thur., Fri., Sat. Oct. 5-6-7
“DELINQUENT PARENTS”

“MYSTERY MAN”
and Latest Paramount News

    
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
     
   
  
 
 
     
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
     
  

 

Mon., Tue., Wed. — Oct. 9-10-11
“QILDERSLEEVE’S GHOST”
“DEVIL RAIDERS”

 

   

     
       
     
   
     
      

~ FRIDAY - SATURDAY
JOAN DAVIS in
“BEAUTIFUL BUT BROKE”

and
“COWBOY CANTEEN”
MON. - TUES. - WED. .
“AND THE ANGELS SING”

and
“BERMUDA MYSTERY” |

THUR. - FRI. - SAT.
“BROADWAY RYTHM”
in Technicolor

 

TS)

     

5

  

‘
rr i
‘

ie it.
i 4 Fo De
: BOR” yl es 7 s
a ™— SAE > a SK 5 " ‘4 . { =! < %s
" Pee i ose} re '
© ge Namie 12 gel E P<
: 4 > “J i. " ee
> ce I a Fe eae ih edie
eat ei a " ;

YeG. 25 |
aS a i. eo «

 
 
  
 
  
        

 
 
 
  

Watching a practice from the
ers the other day, we were
with the large representation
ind second year men turn
Of course, the fact that there
e no intermediate league this

    
    
     
    
  
  
      
     
  
   
   
     
   
    
  
  
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
     
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
     
   
   
  
   
    
     
   
  
    
  
  
    
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   

play any football at all students
secure berths on the top agon. Only three of last year’s
yers are out, possibly five, two
students being undecided as
and at that two of them are

, ago, very few able sophs
w active service in the senior
_and for freshies this privilege
practically unknown. Well, it

ae

am ach Bernie Ralston will have to
forget experience and individual
brilliance in building the current edi_tion of the Tigers. Some of the poons will go to men who have
played in an organized EngRugby match before—and rely
team play and spirit. Fortuhe has plenty of beth; the
of the boys in particular has
' been better, their youthfulnot yet permitting them to lose
old sense of school loyalty in
cosmopolitan atmosphere of our
In fact we don’t envy him in his
mn Re < of selecting thirteen, or is it
on, players from the hordes of
that have been swarming the
npus in rugger boots and shorts
ry noon hour. There is little to
jose between the most of them.

rs ey i
a Looking over the other teams in
the league, we find them in no bet
He Ect

* * *

ter position than ourselves. The
_ squad that improves the most from
ne now on is certain to be the one to
watch. Enthusiasm, not experience,
Bel, ill be the keynote of this year’s
eaking of the league, at the
e of going to press no definite
edule has been drawn up, al1ough a meeting of the officials is
_ ¢alled for tonight for this purpose.
_ Should the Navy and the Fleet Air
Arm submit entries, making it a
team league, there will probably
= two matches on the Dal campus

J

_ every Saturday afternoon for five
_ weeks beginning October 14. Ap_ parently the Navy League Recreation Center, instituted for the use of
__ all services, will be restricted to Candian football this fall and, consently, even the two naval teams
ot be allowed to play there.
e Navy, incidentally, are willto field a team provided some
her service does so but refuse to
y in a strictly civilian Jeague.
F.A.A, will, provided they are
le to complete their present arngements. All these questions
be cleared up at the meeting
lonight. =.

eo

aid

+ KR Ok

_ We are sorely disappointed that
Acadia, Dal’s age-long rival in foot1 has withdrawn from the City
play; the problem of transation curtailing the Acadia
| usual participation in N. S.
. However, it has been asti the competition between
Dalhouise and the Axemen will be
ried on this year, since a two‘eh home-and-home series, is beeee Dal students looking
rd to the annual trip to.Wolfle with the Bengals will not be
aod es aia igs

y Prof. Mercer ‘has banded

4
a .

4
Ail,
aera

  

League or Union?

Enthusiastic Turnout

This season’s edition of the Dalhousie Tiger’s football squad
| promises to do honor to the name of the College. With three

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
 
  

of last year’s varsity player’s certain to be back, and two others
not yet heard from, and a wealth of new material, Burnie Ral
At recent meetings of the Hali-|
fax Services Rugby-Football League |
there has been some indecision on |
whether Union or League rules are |
to be followed during -the current |
year. Although both produce Eng- |
lish football there are considerable
differences between the two systems, |
differences not generally understood
by the common lot. The time being |
the beginning of the season, there |
could be no better occasion for clear- |
ing up some of these misunderstandings.

To begin with, Rugby League |
rules, customarily used by professional clubs, call for the fielding of
a thirteen man team, six in the
scrum and seven in the backfield.
Rugby Union, patronized naturally,
by the amateurs, demands fifteen
men, seven or eight in the scrum,
depending upon what formation the |
coach prefers, with the remainder in
the backfield. The smaller scrum, |
incidentally, lessens the opportunity
for offsides. ‘Kicking to touch’, pro- |
pelling the ball over the side lines |
with the foot, is permitted in Union |
but forbidden in League and is penalized by calling a scrum where the
ball was kicked. An exception is
made when the ball bounces before
going outside; then, at the spot
where it crossed the line the unoffending team throws it in. Again,
when the ball carrier is tackled he
must, under Union release the ball
and play it only with his feet. Under
League he has to regain his feet
and drop the ball between his tackler
and himself, playing it only with his
feet while the remaining players retire to a five-yard distance from
their respective team mates. Also,
after a touch for safety, Union allows the defending team to take the
ball out to the twenty-five yard ‘line
for the kick, Leafue holding it at
the goal line. Finally, a try is scored as three points and the following
kick for goal as two by both sys
 

 

 

tems; a field goal and a penalty kick

is worth four points and three points
respectively under Union, only two
und two under League.

 

Parents who are an example to
their children, don’t have to make |
an example of them.

Returning from last year’s team
are: Bob Wade, fullback; Alex Farquhar, three quarters; Art Burgess,
who plays either in the backfield or
the Scrum. Kev Carton and Nate
Epstein, two of flast year’s performers are expected to turn out shortly.

Many of our last year’s players
nave joined the services. Dick Currie, who was regarded as one of
the smoothest backfields in yintercollegiate circles, is in the Air Force.
Eric Jardine, Alex. (Sandy) Keith,
Andy Anderson, Gordie Hart and
Lawrence MclIvor are all members
of the Armed Forces. Ari Marshall
and Es. Barry are at different colleges while Ray Giberson and Ken

| McLennan who were stellar backfield

playcrs are in Med. School and due
to injuries suffered last season are
unable to turn out.

The loss of these players leaves
some big ‘shoes to fill and the Coach
is looking to those left from last
year’s intermediates and new students to make up for the loss. From
last year’s fighting Cubs several are
back at the University; Eric MacKenzie, picking quarter, Jim MacDonald, backfielder; Bob MacDonald,
backfielder; Pete Flynn, backfielder;
Alan Ernst, scrum; Don Dunlop,
scrum; and Mike Waterfield, scrum.

New material comes ¢hiefly from
Queen Elizabeth High School, although there are some from other
points. From Q.E.H.S. comes big
Cyril Morgan who looks like a good
prospect for the scrum; also Lew
Bail, an aspirant for the backfield
who has both speed and size. Bryce
Burgess looks like a good recruit for
the half line as does Art Lightfoot.
Ralph Cooley has the ability to kick
and looks like a sure prospect.

Alf Cunningham is showing up
well in the practice and should find
a place on one of the teams. From
Rothsay Collegiate hails Adam Smith
who shows lots of speed and a
thorough knowlelge of the game. He
is after the flying half position.

Also turning out isJulian Bloomer, a senior at the University who
played on the Intermediate team
two years ago. Carl Giffen and

ston has hopes of copping the City title.

Discuss Plans

An important meeting of the Halifax City Services Rugby-Football
League was held on Monday evening
at the Y.M.C.A. with the following
executive appointed; Hon. President,
Major J. W. Logan; President, B. A.
Ralston; Vice-President, Sergt. Geo.
MacNeil; Secty.-Treasurer, A. Allen.

A possible five-team league may
be formed, including Dalhousie, St.
Mary’s, N. S. Technical College,
Navy and Fleet Air Arm. Those
present representing the various
teams were: Sgt. Thackeray of the
Fleet Air Arm; John MacCarthy, ex
Calelonia coach; Doug Clark and

Burnie Ralston both of Dal; Andy

Eisenhauer and C. Tracy of Tech;
Andy Chartren, Navy; and Father
McCarthy from St. Mary’s.

The executive of the League had
decided to use the Rugby League
Rules but now for three reasons they
are undecided on which rules will be
used, (1) There is an acute shortage
of Rule Books; (2) It is difficult to
get referees to’act, since few know
the Rugby League Rules; (8) If the
winner of the Halifax League played other teams in N. S. and N. B.
they would have to change to Union
Rules.

The Maritime Rugby Union will
not call a meeting until after the
war, to decide on the rules for the
Maritime provinces.

Plans for the opening of the
League and a league schedule will
not be drawn up until next Friday
night when another meeting will be

| held.

 

Blair Dunlop, both sophomores are
out this year and both are scrum
men,

It looks as if Dal will field a well
balanced team, having a good, heavy
scrum and a light fast backfield.

Other newcomers to the University include Don Kerr from Q.E.H.S.
John Meakin, Ted LeBlanc, and
Lund who has had previous experience with Mt. Allison and Aldershot

 

 

= 
  

. ++ @ Way to revive old times
He’s delighted to find his own room unchanged—everything just as

he left it. He’s pleased, too, to discover other familiar things,
such as, the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Yes;

for friendly refreshment noth
Have a “Coke” is the universal

 

» erm)
>

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

ing takes the place of Coca-Cola,
invitation to relax and be yourself,

, For around the world Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes
—has become the familiar greeting of friendly folks.

-— fi

Pr
ig
Sah |
eS

a

Have a “Coke’=Welcome Home

 

  
   
   

it
iH

i Tha alu he : aoe |

() ;

i ! £ a os =)
f ong. P

“Coke”= Coca-Cola
Me It’s natural for names to
ay acquire friendly abbreviations.
That's why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke,” 682

 

  

 

Cricket Revived
At Dalhousie

During Summer

With Studley campus as its centre of operations and a group of
Dalhousians as the nucleus of its
playing personnel, the long-dormant
sport of cricket was revived in Halifax during the summer months with
the formation of the Studley Cricket
Club—first permanent organization
of cricketers here in over a decade.

It all began with radio appeals and
press notices urging local enthusiasts to come out of hiding and to
contribute themselves and their
ericket gear to a worthwhile cause.
The immediate result was an accumulation of sundry bats, pads, stumps
etc., all through donations, and the
formation of a cricket club with
some 25 members. Headquarters
were established in the Dal Gazette
office while practice and playing
pitches were rolled on the football
field.

Eventual outcome of this activity
was the organization of a Halifax

Cricket League comprising three
squads, Studley, H.M.S. Seaborne

and Fleet Air Arm.

Meanwhile, this cricket regeneration had aroused the interest of
British navymen stationed in Halifax and led to a series of exhibition
encounters on the Studley oval.

Dalhousie members of the Studley
aggregation included Professors
Charles Walmsley and “Sandy”
Mowat, Dr. C. H. Saunders, Carl
Hosein, Philip Samuel and Jim Mce- |
Laren, who was president of the
club. |

 

The Robert Simpson Eastern Limited Halifax

 

  

 

October 6, 1944

2 SQUADS TRAINING FOR FOOTBALL SERIES".

é

Attention Please ; :

Doug Clark, President of D.A.A.C.
has announced that positions are
available as Manager of tfhe Hockey
teant and also the Student Badminton. Any applications for either {
would be gratefully accepted by 1
Doug himself or left at the Gazette
office.

Soccer Plans :

Possibilities that a Dalhousie soccer Eleven might participate in a
proposed Halifax Soccer League are
being discussed by Burnie Ralston, i
D.A.A.C. prexie Doug Clark and 4
campus exponents of the sport.

Recruits are being rounded up
from Studley and Forrest with a
view to getting practice periods underway as soon as possible.

If the formation of a local league
is not forthcoming, the plan is to
encourage exhibition play with service squads.

 

THE
Rosedale Nurseries

HALIFAX

381 Barington St.
111 Spring Garden Rd.

DARTMOUTH

Wyse Rd.*
H-2200

DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS

Before you lie great responsi
   
       
     
 

bilities and glorious oppor- ” &
tunities. In the past Dalhousie '
has provided many of the a;
leaders in the Political Busi- ‘1
ness and Professional life of >

 
 

Canada. From your ranks
must come many of the leaders who will be called upon to
rebuild this war-torn world,

We Wish You Every Success
. y

456-460 Barrington Street

         
     
   

new color in nail enamel

and lipstick to

To play up the drama ot sleek, simple clothes — to

with that imperishable beauty of rare porcelain

enamel and in matching lipstick,

Revion Nail Enamel... 50¢
Revion Lipstick . . . 65¢ & $1.00

_~
2
=
dS light up your yy
~
slim “Finger Silhouette” fashion
make fingertips and lips dangerously beautiful. Newest fashior
accessory color by Revion — in lustrous, lasting nail enamel pe
»

 

 
