.

al a 1."
* s ee > a %
a oon
cf : J A
oy. d t _ 1 f
vane ar at = rf
es re i ’ 2 ,
ea e43y7L
whe se ..) yt ee es
p 4 ® lo = PY Pal
“A oA \ a | t— Fi
ie fo« tA vt 7 + + , |
in is J oe he ‘ oh « ay ; ‘ a ; ,
} , fy } i.

"Who sraegeahel eee Hall Se who,

"flustered an reathless, ran up to a

couple « subbies on the street and

iy ea to walk them back to

a : the Hall... giving as their reason.

'

‘e

“i

_ sailor?

- who, after Eppponsly. cheering for
t out after the |

“game, with ‘St. “Mary's cheerleader?

_ Anyway, Nancy, ee are to be con- |

Vi gratulated for

that they had been chased by a
And which Nancy was it

king the lead in
_ strengthening the bonds of inter
»% college friendship. oh ies

ce Ms

a

_ Everybody is wondering now what

We __ Jim, our genial football manager,

_ is going to do now that the football
season is over. Leah says that the
- bleachers made an excellent play
-\ field. | The next season is far, far

7 *

Aa aioe thas it that Bob Knight |
really enjoys writing his themes at
Kay’s house.
of work done he says, but he admits

i‘

Mo

away, but love areas finds a wae
*

He ‘really gets a lot

_ that he takes time out for a half an

. Ate every night to listen to records.

-FLASH!! It has just been brought
te KNOWSEY’S attention that Bob

has now got past the record stage

i. &
as
\

 laxation.

and has taken to gin rummy for reAnd the local “Tom”

_ Sawyer, while he has not been running around at night in graveyards,

has had a few escapades.

He fell

hard for a lovely bundle of cuteness

at Acadia, but, somehow or other,
never did I get her name straight.
Well, apparently the girl Joan had
a sister by the name of Jean so

ie Sawyer wrote to Jean instead of
- Joan expressing his torrid love for

, : her.
every student at Acadia and is now
in the process of being framed for

on him

- Girls’ Residence).

The letter has been read by

hanging in The Seminary (Acadia
N.B. — Sawyer
hasn’t received a reply from Jean or

Joan as far as can be learned to date.|

k * *
Sorry Folks

Knowsey apologizes to Abe Sheffman for trying to frame a pin-up,
I mean, for trying to pin a frame-up
in last week’s Gazette.
KNOWSEY wishes to say to his
many critics that if he happens to
offend anybody, it is by accident and
not by design.

eer.

Fred, the Fleet Air Arm boy from
Toronto University was rippin’ mad
the other night when he went up to
the Hall looking for a date and at
first couldn’t find one. “What you
ought to have on this campus is a
date bureau for students from other
universities”. But then he met

% Margaret, our Varsity | girl from

Hamilton and he forgot all about
date bureaus till the next day. A
thought | occurs to KNOWSEY that

ae: it might be a go

date bureau here ont the campus for

This year
hopes as well as prays for a successful dance.

* *

+}

STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 24, 1944

7 Allied Policy Toward Post-_

q War Germany Discussed

oe

Reund Table Plans Finale To Activities

Final session of the Dalhousie Round Table has been|

-|planned for Wednesday night

at 7.30 in the Arts Building.

Three representatives of the three main political parties will
have a panel discussion on their respective plans, policies and
aims. There will be no holds barred and no punches pulled and
Canadian politics of today and tomorrow will be thoroughly
thrashed out. It will probably be the most interesting mental
free-for-all ever held on this campus and can’t help but be instructive-as well as entertaining. All students are invited to

| come and bring their friends with them.

© Last week the Round Table had an

echters i in Vogue At
Commerce Sponsored

Ball in Gym Tonight

Another yéar and again the prospective Millionaires (?) are staging
their annual ball. The past years
have been very unsuccessful as far
as Commerce dancés are concerned.
the Commerce society

Prospective Millionaires have a

grand total of $.08 in the bank as

capital, and with the orchestra costing $80.00, it could well be a hard
year to the small Commerce society.
This is the last society fling of the
first terra and it should be a fitting
climax to the social activities on the
campus,

Students at Dalhousie somehow or
other seem shy when it comes to
dating girls appearing with them at
dances. We assure you fellows that
better men than you have successfully attended dances and have lived
to walk around the campus afterwards; (with the possible exception
of Bob MacDonald.)

The society has put a lot of work
into the dance and hopes this year to
‘stage a dance that will at least pay
for expenses. We feel quite certain
that everyone will not be slaving at
studies tonight, and the dance, in the
memorable words of Milton and Professor Bennet, is to “interpose a
little ease.”

been elected the Girl of the Year at
the Law School, because the boys
think that she is the girl with the
most beautiful face, the snazziest
shape and the snappiest personality
in the whole Law School. What
about it Law, is this official? If so;
Knowsey will print it.
eo eS

Some red faces were seen around
the campus this week. Ruth Manning, easily recognized by her coat,
thought that the Commerce Dance
was to be a closed affair for Com
students only, so she asked Art to
go with her. But her feelings were
relieved when he found out that it
was an open affair and Art asked
Ruth. Better do a little enquiring
next time Ruth before you stick your
neck out like that. And Lois was
surprised to learn that Marv Nathanson was not Murray Rankin, so surprised in fact that in her frantic

- al va aie efforts to peace she atbmbled and

then be able to get to ki

ys other. If you have any

dea on the nies who were passing by.
pees seribble a line ‘CENA WERE 5 os * ok
) | k *
-KNOWSEY will be back next
i,|week with more of the same, so, till
| next week at any rate, you’d better
: keep your noses cl because, if
an ean, because,
ye hheve ihekais si you'll see it's a lot bigger
has been nearing er erbols. » ‘gan see its a lot bigger

incy i wel :
ey,

excellent discussion on post-war policies to Germany.
was smaller than usual but the logic
and thoughtfulness, objective reasoning and keen awareness of the problems en the part of all those students who were at the meeting
amply compensated for that.

Weuld Punish War Criminals

It was generally agreed that it
was necessary to have trials and
executions of war criminals. The
main difficulty in this regard is the
problem of distinguishing between
those who are simply carrying out
orders from superiors in order to
save their own necks, and those who
go beyond the specific authority of
their orders to vent their personal
brutal and perverted venom on the
helpless and hapless heads of starving women and children and prisoners of war. ;

Students were of the opinion that
it would be necessary to have an
army of occupation in Germany after
the war for the purpose of wiping
out Nazi nests and instituting a
comprehensive system of reform and
re-education of Germans. Opinions
split on the question as to whether
Russia would attempt to communize
Germany after the war. It was
pointed out that while Britain, the
United States and Russia have been,
up till now, fighting to keep the
German yoke from entircling their
heads, yet after the war has been
won there will continue to be great
differences among these three nations, and, considering that Russia
will probably be the most powerful
in Europe after the war, serious
problems will be likely to arise. At
this point the discussion was ended
on rather a metaphysical note with
everybody looking forward to continuinng the discussion on the next
Wednesday night.

The next and final] session promises
to be perhaps the most interesting
to date and the Round Table would
like to see a large turnout of students and theif friends. Keep the
date open, Wednesday night in the
Arts Bldg. at 7.30 p.m. Watch for
posters around the campus.

Photographs and
Refreshments For Glee
Club Get-Together

The final activity of the Junior
Club this term will be a gathering of
all those who took part in the Frosh
Show at the Gym Sunday afternoon
at three o’clock to have their picture
taken for the “Frosh Show of 744.

In addition the Glee Club extends
a cordial welcome to all those who

are interested in any phase of Glee}

Club work, especially acting, and
urges them to take a vacation from
studying by talking ‘shop’ and having some French pastries and cake.
So drop over the gym Sunday,
around three and relax awhile. Forget that theme !!!1!

.

The attendance.

S.C.M. Hold “At Home”

On Thursday night, November
16th, the S.C.M. had its second party
this term. Technically called an
“At Home,” its purpose was to
bring the new and old members together, and in the process to have a
good time.

After an hour of fun and frolic,
and refreshments, John Stewart
told the story of the World’s Student Christian Federation, a union
of students transcending all racial
and political boundaries, emphasizing its need for. greater support
among students, spiritual as well as
financial. The idea of saving all
your pennies in a piggy-bank, and
then giving the result to the Federation, was presented as a simple
scheme for doing this.

The last half of the programme
consisted of recitations by Cliff
Stewart, a student at Pine Hill, and
two solos by Norman Moeller, also
a student at Pine -Hill. His first
selection was Schubert’s “To Music,”
and going from the sublime to the
ridiculous, the second was “Give a
man a horse he can ride.” After a
short sing-song, the party broke up,
all agreeing that they had had a
wonderful time, and that they
should “do this more often.”

Dal Girls Debate
Mount A. November 29

The first debate of the year on |
Dalhousie campus will be held November 2th at 8 p.m.

abeth Reeves under the management
of Jerry Monaghan will debate with
Mount A.’s team.

The subject of the debate is “Re- |
solved that in the interests of eco- |

nomic and political stability Canada
should join’ the
Union.”

Last year, the Argosy (Mount A.
student publication) published an
article criticising or rather ridiculing our lack of college spirit, for
when Acadia debaters were here last
year, our opponents’ backers ontnumbered us five to one. Are we
going to let the Argosy have this to
say about DalhouSie this year? No!
—so turn out and give your support
and interest to Dal debaters.

Sodales Gets
Underway

Sodales will open its season
Thursday with a radio debate with
St. Francis Xavier University, over
radio station CHNS at nine o’clock.
Accepting the negative of the resolution that the United Nations
should be empowered to police Germany for at least 25 years in the
post-war period, Sodales will send
into the ether its president, Bob
McCleave, and Allan Blakeney, both
law students and former radio de
‘ baters in last year’s combats.

Sodales trials were held last
Thursday, for this and the other two
debates in the new year, but since
only Blakeney would volunteer for
the pre-Christmas one, it was decided to hold trials for the other two
debates on an early date in the New
Year. The President, having commitments reaching only to 16 or 17
hours out of the working day, volunteered, the others having more
pressing problems, and less time.

. Intenr-Faculty Contests
McCleave also reported that plans
for inter-faculty debates after
Christmas were getting underway,
Continued on page 2

in the Arts |
Building when Pat Ryan and Eliz- |

Pan - American |

Commerce
“Sweater”
Ball
Tonight
in Gym

Campus Opinion Favours

Identical Hours for Parades
University and Pesa Would Benefit

by AL LOMAS
Gazette Staff Writer
In a recent survey held by the Gazette, campus opinion is

of
The general opinion

definitely in favour
parades.

identical hours for

service training
is that such a move would be

beneficial to the training corps, the students, and the University

in general.

As the situation now stands, the C.O.T.C. parades

(other than Meds) araheld Thursday night and Saturday after
noons.

The U.N.T.D. parades are held at the same hours. But

those of the.U.A.T.C. are held Tuesday and Wednesday nights.

Toronto Paper Lauds
President Stanley

In a recent issue of the Toronto
Globe Mail

published applauding President Car
and an editorial was

Stanley for his astute com
of the
threatening higher education in Can
leton

prehension menaces now
ada. It was referring to the Presiaddress this fall, welcoming
the Dalhousie student body back to

classes.

dent’s

Hailing him as “a sound judge” of

the current situation, in which high- |

er education appears to have been

“sinking to a lower and lower ebb in
| this country since 1933”, it wholeheartedly commends
that, although our universities experienced “periods when no appreci| able advance was made”, their
| record, “on the whole, is an honour| able one”.

-_

In his speech President Stanley
that “the real cause” of
this apparent decline “is that those
who have to do with higher education, or have the opporfunities to
do with it, have folded thir hands
and floated with the stream—with
any stream or tide—of fashion,
prejudice, materialism or bigotry.”

| asserted

 

Snatching up this argument as the |

key to the whole problem, the editorial reiterates and re-emphasises
the President’s opinion that the future of Canada as an _ educated

of universities, for
. that the general public, which

has no university education, itself,

 

will judge its value.”

If There Was to be a Federal

St ee Enis

his statement |

nation rests entirely upon the shoulders of the students and graduates |
“it is by them |

means that social activities
can be held on two nights of the
week only to ensure the attendance
of all male students who wish to
attend. These nights are Monday
and Friday. .

When the Shirreff. Hall Formal
twas held recently, several members
of the €.0.T.C. -who paraded that
‘night, were foreed to bring their
dress clothes with them to parade—
changing in the dressing room after
dismissal. If all parades were held
on one night, activities could be
avoided for that night and such conflictions would not occur.

A similar instance occurred at the
Blood Donor clinic, when several
‘members of the U. A. T. C. having
Tuesday night parades were either
lunable to attend the clinic, or were
\forced to miss parade.

 

It has been suggested that due to
the lack of space in the gymnasium,
‘the men of all the services could not
have drill on the floor at the same
time. However, it appears that the
U.N.T.D. parades are held at naval
establishments,. and the U.A.T.C.
parades. consist mostly of classes
held in the Science Building. This
leaves the C.O.T.C. in- sole posses
}sion of the Gymnasium,

Surely the U. A. T.C., the second
largest campus service, could coordinate its hours to those of the
C.O.T.C., which is the largest. If
such a plan were carried out, then
one night a week could be set aside
“drill night” by all three services,
and activities could be held on any
other night, the members, consequently, being able to attend if they
so desire,

as

It would be greatly appreciated by
all students if service heads could
confer, and either co-ordinate the

\times of parades, or furnish an ex
planation why such an improvement

‘ean not be brought into force.

DALHOUSIE INSTITUTE OF

PUBLIC OPINION

Election Tomorrow, to Which

Party Would You Give Your Vote?
45% of the students questioned would vote for the Progressive Con
servative party, chiefly because they were anti-C.C.F.

or they thought

Mackenzie King’s Government should be replaced.

25% were for the» Liberal party, feeling that it would be better to
retain the men in the Government who know what is going on.

15% were revolutionary and thought any change would be for the

better, and would consequently mark their “X” for the C.C.F.

three parties the C.C.F.

Of the

met with most disapproval from the students,

10% of them stating “anything but the C.C.F.”

15% were not interested in politics.
i Ge oe
Do You Think More of the Campus Dances Should be
“Sweater Hops?”

The males on the eampus believe whole-heartedly in the sweater girls
of Dalhousie, and almost unanimously approved of sweater dances. However, taken as a whole, 55% of the student body were for sweaters; 35%
think it much more fun “to dress up”, and 10% were not in the least interested in style trends. |

The girls insisted that they were tired of skirts and sweaters, after —
wearing them all week —but there were many suggestions to have informal get-togethers in the gym, which could be real “sweater hops”.

~

—

 
     
     

   
 
  
   
  
 
  
     
     

 
  
 
 

  
  
    
   

 
  
 
  

  

 
 

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

<
: ___ Editor-in-Chief — ir” IY : tai | Tees fs
roe JIM McLAREN (4-2236) , yee (e HN
NGO | BOB MecLit ‘¥ HN HIBBITTS
fae er ic nan ak, More men smoke Picobac
ODMAN ALEX FARQUHAR ERROL MacDONALD ; ;
ILMO' BLAIR DUNLOP a oe than any other Pipe Tobacco
Proofs Cartoons It is a tragedy of modern university education on this continent that :
HARRY AIKENS otal R. TUCK the study of the Greek language and of Greek culture has been largely in Canada
a oe LIZ REEVES overlooked. The number of students in so-called “advanced” classes in
Ms fick aIDEL AL LOMAS Greek is pitifully small. Even in the elementary classes there are, genMacDON NALD GRAHAM BATT (C.U.P.) JACK NICHOLSON | erally speaking, to be found only those who must have a smattering of
foe , ‘PAT CREWE the language—the divinity students. The love of the Greek tongue seems :
ie | _ Business Manager to be almost extinct in the hearts of university men and women today. GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

  

FRED MARTIN (2-2593)

This is a calamity of far-reaching importance. It is from the Greeks
that our beginnings in science, mathematics, art, literature, history, philosophy—in fact, in almost every field of human endeayour—have come.
In every age in which the Western world has made great advances the
light of such learning has burned bright. A true university education is
a search for truth. No one, then, can overlook the magnificent contribution of the ancient Greeks.

Photographers to Dalhousie University

See Our Pictorial Work for Gifts
Special Rates to Students —_— 24 Hour Finishing Service
18 SPRING GARDEN. ROAD. PHONE 36992

   

 
 

ec cE te Bavernnent, the armed services and by all

sal-minded individuals who look beyond the struggle of
present day to the uncertainties of the future. The personnel
nefiting from these university studies is justifiably restricted
conscientious students maintaining a high academic standard.
| The accusation that university students, themselves, are
npatriotic” or “indifferent”? to the conduct of the war, is an
unfair and biased misconception of thertruth. They are no less
patriotic than their fellow-Canadians on the fighting fronts.
ey are following the dictates of conscience along what aprs, under existing circumstances, to be the wisest, most
: eal course of action.

__ Those who would advocate the wholesale MS uaeeipdion of
mi ed lon collegians, are inclined to let emotion triumpn
@ ver reason. They underestimate the Rak contribution

  
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
    
 
    
  
   
     
   
    
   
 
  
  
   
    
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
   
    
  
  

oe. It was a tired, disillusioned Francs which emerged from
A ae heuenoil of the First World struggle—a France whose youth
ie been sacrificed en masse to the altars of war. Consequently,
oughout the problematic years of the ensuing peace, the Ship
of State was run on the rocks by a conservative-minded, older
be ay generation whose outlook was blinded to the movement for pro_ gressive reform. As a result, the foundations of government,
_ undermined from within and without, collapsed before the ruthless onslaught of the Nazi war machine.

ae
a, pan hd Be <
eh 4

__ We must prevent a similar turn of events here in the
Ee Hf Dominion of Canada—and that is where the universities come
Pee ait. =" Just as service-men are undergoing intensive training
. _ preparatory to combat on the fighting line, so, too, is the uniDA versity student undergoing a course which should enable him to
_ ~ play a vital role through the period of unrest and instability in
| the post-war.
GS, Canada must be prepared to face the contingencies of the
ie ge - future with every resource at her command. Canadians must
_ therefore face the facts realistically. They must look to the
£ ed not asa melting-pot for “draft-dodgers”, but as an’

iran Emo ingly important factor in the development and main‘tel en our national life.

 

Medicine and Dentistry, burdened
with long heavy hours of study, are
not expected to enter, according to
reliable sources, but it is believed
Engineering and Law have already
picked teams. Arts and Science
years would fight out the championship in their faculties among themselves, and then meet the winner of
the other bracket, the final debate
possibly taking to the air.

_ SODALES— ;
(Continued from page 1)
id representatives have already

faculty leaders and make the argements. It was pointed out
t these debates were designed to
give a large number of interested
| te Bal a. chance to participate, with

PMatkpust Yniuersity

sh - . | Halifax, Nova Scotia

7

i ee Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
¢ _ Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships

Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

: BA, B.Se., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
: Music, Engin

= yma eering, Pharmacy, Education
| Pour ‘Year Eee Courses in Classiés. Mathematics, Modern
' es and History.

ase recognized standing, leading to degrees

 

Cow: SE aratory to Professional Faculties
_ Course in Public Administration

: _ Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the

 

» Fees: Jn the B.A. course, average about $160
the *B.Se, course, about $1 Se ee i vee,

‘Residence oats

ssidence for women. |
ised residential facilities for men.

should be so.

Today, in the modern university, students of the classics are few.
This in itself is cause for concern, but even more deplorable is the established fact that most of these students are to be found in Latin classes
and not in Greek. Perhaps this gives rise to the question as to why this
In most of our high schools
teachers can teach Latin, but they cannot teach Greek. Consequently, if
a student is to learn Greek at all, he must do the hardest part of it—the
learning of the mechanics of the language—in college.
most students never get beyond this elementary stage—never reach the
Promised Land of appreciation and love of the language.

Then, too, all too often, the finest pieces of Greek literature are reduced to a happy hunting ground for obscure grammatical points, instead
of being presented for what they really are—part of our priceless heritage.
This, it must be pointed out, is not the fault of the professors. They are
labouring courageously under almost insurmountable difficulties to keep
the flickering flame of Greek learning alight.
a necessity in our high schools.
to our mother tongue.
never forget that the Greeks came first.

The answer is all too plain.

J. B. H.

“WHAT IS A
sUNIVERSITY EDUCATION?”

(In reply to this question here is the 6th in a series of articles by
members of the Dalhousie teaching staff)

It is worth while for university students (and also university
teachers) to stop occasionally and ask themselves this question, as
on the answer to this depend also the answer to others that people
are constantly putting to us. For instance, inconvenient people ask,
How much does a university education cost? and Do you think it
is worth it? Don’t you think that it would be better to get right
into business? Wouldn’t you make more money that way?

Let us look at the matter, first of all, from the outside. To the
ordinary citizen a university course is simply the third step in
public education. One goes to a public school and learns so much,
and then to a high school and learns so much more, and finally to a
university and learns so much more again. It is, unfortunately,
necessary for many pursuits and professions. They require a great
deal of learning owing to their complicated subject matter, but the

' business can easily be over-done.

If we shift our study to the inside of the university and survey
the large and varied assortment of courses offered by any modern
university, we must admit that there is much reason in the view of
the average citizen. A great many of these courses are simply the
last stages in the preparation for some intricate and exacting
career. They are long and arduous, but even then it is almost impossible to squeeze into them all desirabie subject matter.

There is so much to be crowded into these professional courses,
that not only is there no time for outside material, but even inside
them there has to be much specialization.

Is this all that a university course is? There is still one faculty,
that of Arts and Science, which may seem to offer something different (if anyone wants it). Even here, however, we find something
similar. So many Arts and Science courses are designed to start
one out on a career of teaching, or municipal administration, or
chemical research or some other specialty. When we examine the
matter carefully, it almost seems as though the Arts and Science
Faculty has become simply a collection of various professional
schools in one, bundled together for the. sake of convenience and
because it would be too expensive to have them separate.

So again we ask, Is there nothing more in the Arts and Science
Faculty? Well, there ought to be something more, for there is
something very important that we have not found anywhere as yet,
and which it is very dangerous to neglect. This is an informed and
balanced view of the sum of our culture and the business of our
civilization.

Unless someone makes it his duty to take a broad, appraising view of things, there is going to be nobody to bind all our
specialties together. It is really very dangerous for Jearned
men to go and shut themselves up into little boxes of erudition,
which gre-not in touch with each other. In such a case we shall
have doctors who can talk nothing but medicine; dentists who
know nothing but dentistry; chemists that have no views on
art or government or literature, and so on. And as for politics
or foreign affairs, who in the world is going to waste his time
on such subjects?

Let us then in our Arts and Science Faculty of the University
avoid too much specialization. Let us have a balanced course that
will give us an insight into as many branches of human wisdom as
possible, that will offer some general synthesis of the whole and
that will hold close to the past wisdom and traditions of our forefathers and the civilization, culture, religion, and moral outlook
that they have so- painstakingly fashioned and bequeathed to us.
This, if anything, would have the best right to be called a university
educaticn. A. K. GRIFFIN (King’s)

Department of Classics.

The result is that

The teaching of Greek is
As a language, Greek stands second only
It must-be restored tc its proper place. Men must

 

   

 

a Limited
Oat ROAD Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX Nova Scotia HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

YOUR SUITS

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

     
  
  
  
    

There’s nothing like it to-make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish
lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
--send what you have to Cousins often.

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

A good slogan in war or peace:
Sure”.

“Say Schwartz and be
We urge it for your protection that vou may be
assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee,

Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Bakine Powder and
Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

Special

CHRISTMAS
OFFER

This Christmas

Give Music

You will find many suitable
music gifts at Phinneys

Records, Music Books
Small Instruments and
Musical Novelties.

Mounted Portraits
1 Dozen 5 x7

$10.00

Make Your Selection Early

The
Portrait Studio

425 BARRINGTON ST.
Phone 3-8668

Jerry ae Ba 8

Orchestra

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

THE

 

Rosedale Nurseries

 

HALIFAX DARTMOUTH
381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 ico Garden Rd. H-2200

  

Fader’s Drug Stores

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
135 HOLLIS STREET

     
  

  

a me a *
, oh =e a)
ie? Ts

*

*

Court, and with most of Shirreff

- Hall and the Engineering class in

attendance, it was decided to hold the

_ trial in the Gymnasium, there being
_ several trees nearby on which the

_ culprit could be strung until he was

*

  
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
     
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
  
    
     
    
  
  
  
  
     
    
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

Ns

_ dead or showed no disposition to at_.tend the Round Table Group, the

most sure sign of life in said Scoffman. Ft le |

The charge against the prisoner

was that he either impersonated a
woman, or else was a woman impersonating.2 man, said charges being
gleaned from the “Knowsey” column
in the Gazoot. It was further alleged
that Scoffman was a writer of said
column by virtue of a note included
in a reference to Mmself, addressed
to Gazoot added, Chump McGosh.
The sentence was “poisonal reference to me, Chump,*so people won’t
think it’s me that’s writing it.”
Professor Binnet of the Anguish
department was reported to be
pressing minor charges for poor
English in the sentence, but his case
was being held over, it being agreed
between the two parties THAT IF
Scoffman was hung on one charge,
it would be useless for him to copy
out “A Giddy Guide to Poifect Eng
_ jish” to satisfy Binnet.

‘The judge, in vermin, was our old
friend, Rufus Rayne, who knew
little of the lay and perhaps less
about anything else, but could always be found to fill the rabid needs

of the moment: | ~

The girls from Shirreff Hall came
in in a body, which saved the
throats of the males, and sat down,
demurely wearing Sadie Hawkins’
costumes, made from some material
begat and bought at a fire sale, at
a shekel a hundred yards. It was
hard to tell them apart, and after
a while everybody gaye up trying.

First to give evidence was Chump
_MeGosh, the editor of the Gazoot,
who dénied that it was he who was
mentioned in the column. “I am not
the Chump McGosh mentioned in
the story, but another Chump McGosh. Any allegation that I am

_ writing for the Gazoot is pure falsity; I have hardly seen my work
in print this year. Once in a while I
have copied out some sentiments
on the back of a Black Horse Ale
label, but how they got in the
Gazoot is beyond me.”

It was agreed that MeGosh had
nothing to do with anything, and he
immediately left the room in tears,

‘ Tried on Charge of Being
Knowsey ; Hanged if He Ain't, Is
The trial of Heck Of A Lot Of

_ People y. Scoffman opened at an
_ extra setting of the Supreme Moot

 

and broke into soulful French in the
publication, “L’Epitter-patter”, sign
or

  
   

 

If further proof is needed of the

ing his name to an article, “Je vous superiority of Engineers among the

aime, tu vous aime, il vous aime.”

The second witness to take the
stand was a bevy of beauties from
Marmalade Wigwam. Cross-piled on
each other, they looked like a Nazi
khorrer at Lublin. “Scoffman told the
truth about me, and it hoit,” said
one from the middle.

Rufus, Lord Chief Justice, made
a note of this. In a succinct aside,
he asked the filly for her telephone
number, and a jury of Softies gravely noted the fact as Exhibit A.

The other girls had nasty things
to say about Scoffman, and while
the latter grew a moustache in the
prisoner’s stand (a reconverted CO
TC bayonet target), he still has the
moustache—the evidence mounted.

‘Finally Scoffman went to give
evidence. “What is your name,”
asked Crown Prosecutor Thomas the
Doubter Gregory the Great Finless.

By those who know me intimately
I am known as Scoffman.”

Questioned as to whether his first
name, which was also Scoffman,
meant he was a man or a woman,
Scoffman said it meant he was a
man.

Three witnesses were called, who
testified to this. “Since childhood
Scoffman has worn blue rompers,
the earliest sign of manhood. When
he reached 16——” But Rufus decided it was proven.

Scoffman was then asked: “Is you
is, or is you ain’t, my sweethot,” by
Defense Counsel Irish Chowder, but
the question was held irrelevant and
was deemed to have some poisonal
motive behind it.

The jury retired for some 2% seconds, and then returned. The leader,
young Slyporker, also known as
Sheik-Arabie, also known as “Come
out of that alcove,” also known as
“heck with him,” stated in lilting
lyrics that:

“ve walked alone,

And not because I’ve got rickets,
But Scoffman’s remarks weren’t
cricket.”

—Guilty as !

Grabbed, bustled, and bound, the
young Scoffman was hurried out to
the big tree that everybody’s up
in around examination time. “Is
there anything to be said,” said the
Sherrif, Mairzy-Doats Liquidacre.

“l.am innocent, I have been framed, it wasn’t me, it was someone else
that looked like me—poor fellow,”
and Seoffman wept, thinking that an

 

 

EATON'S for

Gift Neckwear

“Shop Early” is the word at EATON’S, and if you’re looking
for neckwear this Christmas be sure to see our selections!
. +». A wide range of patterns and colours—ties to suit practically all tastes are featured in our Men’s Wear Department.

* a i 3 ; Ber Priced at, each 1.00 to 2.00

EHATON’S Main Floor

       
         
   
   

various faculties, it can be found in
Bryge’s doings last Friday. Going
into a scrimmage with the Commerce Shiek, our game little freshmen came out on top and, gleaming
triumphantly, he trotted across the
floor with Nancy. Looks as though
said Shiek must fight off males as
well as females.
* * %

We find it difficult to imagine what
Norm has been doing alone in the
drafting room these nights, the
Varga girls having departed many
months ago, but a certain Physics
Department detective has his suspicions. We see clouds gathering
and would advise Norm to take his
eot and return home before the
storm breaks.

* oe ca

“The Case of the Buggersome
Dime Slot” has been solved by our
own Dead-Eye Doug, who last week
spotted the ailment in Roy’s eccentric juke box. While Roy looked on
(one hand over the coins) Pete
crawled inside, poked around knowingly, and crawled out again announcing ‘““Now you see, crime does
not play. Haw!”

* BS as

Beware of Dangerous Don MacLeod! Janet claims he packs the
delayed action punch that landed
her in bed a week after the FormalPine Hill affairs.

% we ee

“The Burgess-Yeadon partnership
has added a third member in the
person of Yeadon’s female cousin.
Burgess gets the cousin, Yeadon
gets the reflected glory of a football
hero, while the cousin gets the long
description of the agonies of an Xray examination familiar to Art’s
admirers at the Hall.

* * *

With examinations around the
corner, some malicious junior reports he has it straight from the
man with the whip that, come 1945,
but 40% of the senior. class will return to the inner sanctum. A quick
survey revealed that 100% of the
class are sure they are part of the
40%.

Just to encourage the 60%, whoever they may be, here are those
seven magic words again: BOILERMAKERS’ BALL, NOVA SCOTIAN
HOTEL, JANUARY 26th. You
wouldn’t want to miss it, would you,
fellows?

innercent man (in this case him),
was being sent to doomnation.

The rope tightened and, to the
tune of “The Goose Hangs High’,
Scoffman hung in the breeze.

A seream punctuated the stillness.
“I did the writing. Scoffman is an
innocent man, as sweet as the
youngest and homeliest freshette at
Marmalade Hovel.” |

They all turned, except Scoffman,
who hung limply while pamphlets on
“What to do with Germany in the
post-war period” drooled from his
lips.

Acknowledging his guilt as Gazoot
tripe-writer was . The crowd
fainted. We'll dwell on————_——’
identity next week.

ORPHEUS

Thurs., Fri., Sat

“CRY OF THE WEREWOLF”
“SOUL OF A MONSTER”

 

wn

 

 

Mon., Tues., Wed.
“END OF THE ROAD”
and “FORTY THIEVES”

 

 
   

  
 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE

WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS

_ SIGHT SPECIALISTS

¥.M.C. A, Building —- Halifax
- Phone 3-6881

     
    
    
   
   

Nessie Sees,

7 ot 2
rt i f —<«' @ wt er , 5 0 A
rey At ’ - ie ao ' Ws ?
ee ME a es ea yA a eee
Pe 4 ey eee i Lee ae pS el 3 % 3 ;

es r - ity ¥ ~

we ot ay 2

*K uK
Hall Sets
=IN THE PASTORAL STYLE any

: a \
\n

e\

‘Suy _s . ar

= 4

The inner sanctum of inner sanctums at Shirreff Hall has finally
come to a boil. Last week a notice
in the Gazette stated that the girls
were seriously considering banding
themselves against Dalhousie males
(or whatever they are) and keep
them away from the Sadie Hawkins
dance, and allied features .in which
girls do the asking.

This week, our cartoonist has
come through where our photographer failed, and pictures the
above scene at Shirreff Hall steps.
It appears that when taking the

picture, the photographer used too
much sunlight or there was some
other technical difficulty (it must

have been otherwise in Halifax) and
the picture came out a distinct blur.
The cartoonist stepped in and has
faithfully caricaturized the girls .

 

\\

 

os nae << iso Pale .
rom Male §S
i ak

Up Howl

Vy Sie

THIS it
LARN Yo'F).

Interviews

Campus leaders could not be
reached for a definite statement on
the girls’ action. Flossie LaF loozie,
freshette, holder of a garret on the
top floor of the rookery section of
the Hall, said “As far as I am concerned I will stick by my little
pimple-dimples, the nicest freshman
of them all.”

SS SD

Other girls were not so considerate. “Dalhousie men are drips,”
said one, “and while I have not

 

found that girls are causing this action, I am prepared to give them
my support.” And the third girl interviewed said she was too busy
reading “Forever Amber,” where
men are men and women are ultra.
Further action is expected after
Christmas, the girls not expecting
to cut professors from their lives.

 

—

VOX
DISCIPULI

Established in conjunction with
Po Te ke

 

 

Question:

meals at Shirriff Hall?

Jack Sidel (Pharmacy ’47) — The
meals on the average are fairly
good in quality, sometimes being
better than usual, sometimes worse.

When they are good they are very, |

very good, but when they are bad
they are horrid.
sufficient, even for the appetite of
a college student. As for the price,
compared to that charged by restaurants, it is very fair.

Ruth Manning (Commerce °48)—
I think the meals are terrible. The
quality seems good, but they lose
their appeal by poor preparedness.
I think the price is too high for such
poorly prepared conglomeration of
calories. The quantity is quite sufficient, and if the meals were prepared simply they would be much
appreciated by the students.

Ed Grace (Engineering 47) — In
general | must say I am quite satisfied with the meals at Shirreff
Hall, The quality cannot be questioned; the quantity is certainly sufficient, and the price is well below
the standard. “Not enough dessert” and “not enough to eat” do
not mean the same thing, though
they are often confused in discussion.
The food offered by Shirreff Hall
during meal hours is open to criticism from another angle. I refer,

 

Writing Equipment

Good writing equipment
makes for better notes
in classes.

Birks have good assortments in the popular
lines-—Sheaffer, Parker

and Waterman.

Henry Birks & Sons
. LIMITED

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

| Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

 

What do you think of |
the quality, quantity, and price of |

The quantity is |

of course, to the rigid dismissal of
“guests in respite.”

Kevin Barry (Law °45)—Generally speaking, I think dinners at
Shirreff Hall compare favorably with
those which can be obtained at any
restaurant for the same price. The
Hall, having the advantage, that on
rare occasions one may get a “second” of dessert. As to suppers, I
am inclined to think that forty-five
cents is a bit too steep for a meal
which is much less expensive and
palatable than the dinners.
However, I think if both meals could
be made a little cheaper, it would be
a great boon to students who have
to pay such high prices to all those
other vendors who are in
for ‘‘profit.”

less

business

     
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
   

CAPITOL

FRIDAY and SATURDAY

BETTE DAVIS

Mr. Sheltinotois

e
MON., TUES., WED.

Hedy
LAMARR

and

Paul
HENREID

in

ene

“The

gn ; 99
TConspirators

tudents

 

  

a
i

 

a

;

|

Incomparable )

Quality !

You can count on the type :
of footwear you buy at

SHANE’S SHOE STORE _

where we specialize in !
HIGH GRADE SHOES

ONLY. Select from Can
ada’s Best... “HARTT”
; . “SCOTT- McHALE”
“SLATER” and “RITCHIE”.

Shane’s Shoe Store

397 BARRINGTON ST.
HALIFAX

 

 

 

GARRICK

Sat., Mon., Tues.

“IN THE MEANTIME
DARLING”

Wed., Thur.., Fri.
“MAN POWER”

and “POLO JOE”
with Joe E. Brown

 

 

CASINO

ALL WEEK
* i

“SENSATIONS

_ OF 1945”

ELEANOR POWELL

W. C. FIELDS
CAB CALLOWAY

WOODY HERMAN

and His Orchestra

 

OXFORD

Today and Friday
DEANNA DURBIN

in “CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY”

Mon., Tues.

“MAKE YOUR OWN BED”
and “VOICE IN THE THIRD”

_ Weed., Thur.
“JAM SESSION”

and “GAMLER’S CHOIICE”

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—

 

crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

mn,
  
  

   
 
   
   
   
 

 

forward to get the

  

oe bigainst St. fe nai passing
ee plays throughout the season —

7s seventy-five yard dribble

 

i a: a try—Bobbie MacDonald’s short

kicks and aggressiveness against
Acadia — Bryce Burgess’ tackling
—Kev Carton’s broken-field running
—Vie Clarke’s great tackling in the
Navy game — Wade’s spectacular
saves and kicking—Feanny’s heeling
—Bill Bell’s drepkick in the Acadia

~ game—The whole team’s great show
ing throughout the entire season.

a

Now hockey and basketball loom
on the horizon.* Basketball drills

have started; hockey is slated to get

underway next week. Many stars
are back for the hockey team and
five of last season’s basketball quintet have returned. Immediately
after the Christmas vacation games
will be played, and prospects for a
successful winter are bright.

We like Art Hartling’s suggestion
(by letter) for interfaculty boxing
to be re-inaugurated. Boxing at
Dal has been dormant for five years
and it certainly would be a big step
sport going
again. We have plenty of material
—why don’t we use it? Ralston
Feanny and Art Hartling can certainly hold their own with any others in Intercollegiate circles.

% * te

If interest is shown, bouts will

likely start after Christmas. Anybody willing or desirous of such
competition, please contact Art

Hartling and he'll see what can be.
done about getting things under way.
co * *

If sufficient interest and talent is
displayed, it would be possible to
held a tournament or tournaments
with other colleges. Years ago several champs were produced at Dal.

Why not do it again?

Open Letter to D.A.A.C.

Dear Sirs:

This year has the promise of being a real bang-up year in every
activity on the campus. The D.A.
A.C. is well organized and working
smoothly.

Saw some very lively games this
year, everybody getting a great
kick out of the thing, which after
all, is as it Should be. With this
success as a starter the D.A.A.C.

 

 

   
 

| eae

re vf ay 1 . ws $ Fi
ea a aaa ne ee aa a
- i

CLE B5% ofl bs ja

  
   

das okp “hives

Interfaculty football

 

  

Boys Triumph inAnnual
Ground Hockey Game

In‘a gruelling affair: that lasted
all of twenty minutes, the boys
again succeeded in downing the
girls’ ground hockey team by a score
of 5-2, Showing a familiarity with
the game that was surprising, the
Payne-coached boys raced up and
down the field in fine style. A few
minutes after the flashy centre, Zen
Graves “bullied off” with Miss Hart
(don’t take it wrong), the boys
raced down the field and Clark drew
first blood; not only did he score
the goal, but it was a sightseeing
Blair Dunlop racing around writhing in pain having sustained a deep
cut on’ the hand, as a result of
Clark’s goal.

Amid the downpour (of blood),
while Graves kept ‘bullying off’,
Blair Dunlop stood in front of the
girls’ net and-banged in three goals
one after the other. It was then
that Clark, who was getting jealous,
decided that he couldn’t score
against the girls, and having been
dealt many a stiff body check from

rugged Nancy Wilson, girls’ defence-woman, and promptly  succeeded in scoring a goal for the

girls—much to the disgust of “Slim”
Lund and “Skinney” Dunlop. Then
Stinky who is back in our midst,
thus far neglected as winger, drove
into the girls’ net and netted two
markers. Joyce Hart frothing with
rage, decided that it was time for
another goal for the girls and dood
it. The final score: 65-2.

 

should follow up with another interfaculty sport and we would like to
suggest boxing. Nothing would “be
more fun to both participants and
onlookers (especially onlookers) and
it might serve on the other hand as
afarm for some good boxers, to
make up a team to represent Dal in
an inter-collegiate meet, if such
takes place this year. There are
some reports that there are boxers
at Dal this year (those West Indian
boys again) and up to date many
engineers seem to be interested in
the idea. So here’s a job for the
promoter of interfaculty sport.
it is too date for this term, let’s |
start it off next term, and let’s develop another sport at Dal.

If

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

  
  
  

  

4."

Monday noon saw almost twenty
lads turn out, aspiring to make the
Varsity basketball team. Returning

from last year’s mediocre team were |

five players: Alex Farquhar, Carl

Giffen, Blair Dunlop and Bill Pope, |

all former senior performers, and
Vie Clarke, who was an intermediate
guard last season. Bob Knight, who
played some outstanding games,
expected to be out shortly. Among
the new material, Dal is exceedingly
lucky, since the in-come looks pro'mising.

is

Up on the forward line, Alf Cunningham and Art Robinson show
great potentialities. Cunningham,
though a Freshman, has had much
experience. Two years ago he played Intermediate ball for St. Ani'drew’s and last term starred for
| Queen Elizabeth. Robinson previ‘ously performed with St. John High
School.

Harold Giffen is trying out for
the centre spot and has played for
Sst. John’s in the City Tuxis and
Trail Ranger leagues for the past
several seasons. Cal Best, a colorful New Glasgow boy, is also out
for the center position and shows
tremendous possibilities.

Bernie Creighton, diminutive forward, looks smart, as does Walter
Cook, who was with Lunenburg High
School last season. Ralph Cooley,
prize package of St. Andrew’s and
‘High School teams in the city for
several years, looks like sure-fire for
a guard position . Don Kerr, who
Cooley at Q.E.H also
shows promise.

Burnie Ralston is very optimistic
about the team’s chances this year.

last year,

 
       

Os

|plans materialize, there will be an
Intercollegiate league in the city,

 

 

ling on Tuesday, at 1 p.m.,
| After

performed on the guard line with)

    
     

        

Z zs bt Se]

4

a

.. THEN TURN OUT: }

“)

¢ a

 

material is the
If present

the
in years.

He says ‘that
most promising

the winner to go on for provincial

honours.
There have been more out to the |
first practices this term than in any

 

of the last few years. Adam Smith,
who is still on the sidelines because
of a football injury, is expected to
be out after Christmas. He was a
star performer in New Brunswick
High School circles with a strong
Rothesay team. Others out in later
practices are Gerry MacKay, Jim
McLaren, and Mike Waterfield.

Don’t forget there are to be two |
teams, so if you want that ““D” come | «
out now and get into shape with the
other aspirants.

 

|
|
Hockey Practices |
Starting December Ist

Arrangements have been made to
start hockey practices at the Arena
commencing next week. The first
practice will be held on Friday, December 1, at 1.15 p.m. All those
planning to try out for hockey are
requested to attend this first practice.

There will be at least two practices before. exams, the other comDec. 5.
Christmas there will be two
practices weekly, on Tuesdays at 1
p.m. and Fridays at 1.15. For the

first practice all those attending. are

asked to supply their own equipment, with the exception of those
trying out for the goal position.

 

 

Have a ong family welcomes you

 
     

: |
ie
I

ings NU

... Or greeting new eid old Woitads |

  

Unexpected visitors can be expected in wartime. Sons bring
home their wives. Soldiers on furlough drop in without
notice. And you can play host on a moment’s notice when
you haye Coca-Cola on hand in your refrigerator. Have a
“Coke” says Welcome... makes new and old friends feel at

home with you and yours.

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

 

} ee
: 7 “\

 

cial
a

fas

ean Ti x

   
    

It’s natural for popular names
to anu cae sew:
tions at's why you hear

ey Coca-Cola called Coke”,
689

 
 

 

Powerful Soccer X]
Defeat Irish

Last Friday afternoon saw Dal’s
powerful soccer team trounce Saint
Mary’s eleven by a score of 3—0.
Dal controlled the ball for the greater part of the fray and kept the pill
in the opponents’ end of the field
throughout, and only the stellar saving of the St. Mary’s goalkeeper
kept the score as low as it was.
Winston Feanny went on a scoring
rampage in the game and made two
nice goals out of scrambles in front
of the posts.

Ralston Feanny, a star in his own
right on the rugby field, was a tower
of strength on the rearguard, relieving pressure on his goal many times
with long kicks. Steve Copp, fleet
forward for Dal, made the third
score for the Yellow and Black.

This wound up a successful soccer
season,

practice would easily have taken the
senior team of the Navy which won
the City title. Orchids to Jim Mc
|Laren and Ral Feanny for stimu
lating interest around the campus
and getting a good team organized.
Line-up: Simon, Sidel, R. Feanny,

A. oe Ww. Feanny, McLaren,

                                   

 

After Any Show

OF ...

Before Any Meal

Think of ...
The

Green Lantern

 

 

FARMERS’

ALWAYS PURE

great incentive for the con- |
tinuance of the old English game at |
|Dal. Dal really had one of the best |

teams in the city, and with more |

 

November 24, 1944

‘ED TIGERS COP CITY CHAMPIONSHIP

Carten Stars
In Final Win

Unleashing a scoring power
which has been dormant for most of
the season, the Tigers romped to a
12-3 victory ovér the Irish from St.
Mary’s. The forward pack played
its usual steady game and was instrumental in getting the ball back
to the versatile backfield.

The first try was made on a nice
play hy Ernst who dribbled the ball
over the line and touched it down
before being swarmed by six or
seven Santamarians. The convert
from a difficult angle was attempted by Feanny, but was unsuccessful.
This was the only score in the first
half and the Tigers lead 3-0 at the
start of the second half. Carton
scored on’a plunge through a maze
of players to give the home team a

6-0 lead; again Feanny’s try at the
convert failed by inches. A _ few
minutes later, Farquhar made a

nice run to theggoal line passing to
fleet-footed Feanny who raced over
the line for the third try.
attempt at thg convert
short by a few yards
After
Irish came to life for
when MacLelland,
of the Irish,

His own
was
and the
this try
a brief spell
fleet backfielder
found a hole in the Dal

again
score

remained 9-0. the

line and raced through. O’Neil at| tempted the free kick but failed to
| split the bars. With the score 9-3
ithe Bengals made it decisive when
Carton again plunged over the line
making the count 12-3. Bell  attempted the convert this time but

failed from a hard angle.

 

 

LOCAL COLOR

For interesting, accurate reports of local
events, read The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail. Everything that happens in
the Halifax area that
is newsworthy is recorded in the columns
of these great newspapers, compiled by a
staff of experienced reporters. The completeness of local news coverage makes The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail, the most
popular newspapers
East of Montreal.

The Halifax Herald

and

The Halifax Mail

 

MILK

ALWAYS RICH
‘ ALWAYS WHOLESOME

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

5S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL
COKE

Halifax, N. §,

 

SOFT COAL
FUEL OIL

Dartmouth, N S.

 
