% about it all.
a a certain somebody who is ont quite
80 happy about it.

‘Well, that’s

    
        

 
     
  
  
  

 

Ne] ‘ ‘ j ;
ca ,
ae LPP ad i :
rt be § i ; i
7 }
: .3 + “
fue av mf * *
gee Ly : \
dt bee ee tebe Bd eh eg f
yt (Pe he ys
eae Tom te Ore *
ty te ‘
* @ % A f
é r A f 71 ‘«
Oe AT 7
fie
i> ru a
yt r
ereil 2 r
i of
ics K 2
iF) .
> a
— a .
ret a .
J ‘.
jae 1
i - all
- =) 7
) , x
.

 

os

‘Well you asked for it and here it
is ... The March of Grime. If you
don’t like what we say about you,
we're sorry, but your Grime Reporter pleads not guilty to any offense
with which he is charged .. . by reason of insanity.
* * a
Watch out Alfie! That perennial
she-wolf from the Hall is pounding
(no we didn’t say panting) at your
door ... She’s lost one bet already
and she doesn’t intend to lose this
one.
* * %
“This is called infilitration,” said
the young C.O.T.C.er as he edged
closer to her on the davenport. “This
is called demolition” said N——— as
the Freshman hit the floor.
, * * *
Morse Code
She is certainly a girl with initiative plus. She’s got a wonderful
- money-making scheme under way already. She has become a proxy
‘alarmclock. If you can’t wake up in
the morning, don’t wait! Write Sue
immediately enclosing a nickel and
she will wake you at any time between 5 and 8:30. Oh, by the way,
we have been asked to suggest that
the letters be written in straight
English and not in code.
SC ie om
Our cosmopolitan friend, Rosalind,
told us that she just loves to travel.
Yes we see your point now, Rosalind,
after learning that you were the
only female in a carload of hemales,
and did you ever love it! But take
a tip from some wise old man, Rosalind, you’ll never win by playing too
big a field.
* * * |
(Rum Boogie)
Our heartfelt sympathies go out to

Boudreau for the unfortunate acci-:

dent at the Acadia game. A lawyer
friends tells us that carelessness and
the failure to use the ordinary care
that a reasonable man would use in
the same circumstances caused the
sad affair.
Lia
At the Movies
He: Can you see all right?
She: Yes.
He; Is there a draft on you?
She: No.
He: Is your seat comfortable?
She: Yes.
He: Let’s trade seats.
; * * *
Lizzie’s Quest
Al, Nancy asked us to suggest
that you shouldn’t get too enthusiastic with your extra-curricular activities. Be careful boy, because when
Lizzie’s on the prowl she usually
brings back the bacon, and you don’t
want to be hamstrung, or do you?
mi Boye me

“Uppie,” the Uppity Med, has

found a new object for his affections:

and Marg. seems to be quite happy
But there is, we hear,

BAe ee *

| all for this week, folks,

_ Please remember that
it and painless murder

  

do

 
   
 

alhousie

OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 

AMERICA’S OLDEST

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 8, 1944

What Happened at Council Meeting

Society Budgets on Agenda

(1) Question of a student telephone to be installed in the Forest
Building, and it was decided to bring the matter to the attention
of the University to see if they would provide for it;

Blood donor elinics to be held on Nov. 7 and Nov. 14;

Decided that points should be awarded to the cheer leaders under
the jurisdiction ef the Glee Club. An Alumnae committee has
been formed to meet with the Dal committee for the furtherance
of Dal spirit; .

Committee formed to rearrange football schedule and to check the
financial question of the Halifax League;

Motion carried accepting the resignation of Dick Fraser from
Med. Society;

Motion carried allowing Med, society to have permission to hold
their own election to fill Dick’s place;

Three students were elected by the council to act with the two
faculty members as a committee to select a candidate for the Malcolm Henor Award. They are Larry Sutherland, chairman; Connie Archibald, and Bill Mingo;

(7) Passing of the budgets.

Glee Club Budget. Budget was
passed, but the amount requested
for the choral group was deferred,
to be budgeted for as required from| The D.G.A.C. budgets were passed
time to time. with the minimum of comment, for

The Solades’ tentative budget was | the council was by this time (6:30)
passed, except for trips. | very hungry, slightly tired and near
The Gazette budget was also pass- | ly smothered with cigarette smoke.

(2)
(3)

(4)
(5)

(6)

ed, with the council approving a $60
increase over the ameunt of last
year to be used for cuts.

Manufacturers. Liability Is
Re-opened By Decision of Bench

Supreme Moot Court finished its sittings last Friday, when
Allan Butler out-argued Raymond Richardson on the question
of manufacturers’ liability, thus reopening for some consideration a point in law which was thought settled by such minor
tribunals as the Supreme Court of Canada and the British
House of Lords. The Privy Council might also be affronted.
The case was simple: an infant eating bread cut its mouth on
some glass in said bread, which had arrived at infant’s table
from the manufacturer through a corner grocery store.

Once upon a time manufacturer ;

lara ie, ae yin TO ALL MEN STUDENTS
ess article wa urchas
OF DALHOUSIE

from him, directly. However, the

House of Lords in the case of Dono-| Dear Fellow Dalhousians:

hue vy. Ste reversed this pre
i a rare Te nye On benalf of the Dalhousie Alumni
vailing trend, ,;when a young lady

   

 

found to her horror a dead snail at
the bottom of an opaque bottle of
ginger beer and had conniptions.
Butler has apparently set back the
apple-cart by his enthusiastic case,
Both sides were handled well.
Briefs were excellent, and arguments
too. Lord Chief Justice Barry and
Lord Justice Matthews found for

Association, I cordially invite you to
meet with us at a Smoker to be held
in the Dalhousie Gymnasium on Friday evening, November 10th, at 8:00
o’elock.

Many of you will remember the
enjoyable Smoker held last year at
which the first-year men _ students

evidence around.

the most effic- |
1 _is|knows better than that, had to give
n't |the deci:
back |only prece

were the guests of the Asociation.
This year, the Association hopes that
every man in the University will be
present and mingle with Dalhousjians of other years in an atmosphere
of Dalhousie songs and _ reminiscences.

Butler, while Lord Justice King
found for Richardson. For the second time within three sittings, the
bench was totally Newfoundland,
causing a spirited display between
junior counsel Harvey and Their
Lordships, some comparison being
made between the government of the
unhappy island and that of Italy.
As an added attraction, a quintette
of stunners walked in from Studley,
setting a precedent for beauty in
this court. Main bombshell of the
afternoon was the decision of Trial
Judge Proudfoot, . who acquitted Al
Ross and Ed Harrigan on charges
of being late for a session. Crown
Prosecutor Matthews represented the
culprits, while Defense Counsel King
showed himself adroit at tossing the
Chief witness, R.
J. McCleave, claimed that the boys
who were late because they failed
to get an early dinner at Pine Hill,
could have got said dinner. King
proved that McCleave was in a
special category, accustomed to get\ting his meals at all hours, because
of extra-curricular work for a newspaper,
_ Proudfoot, who being a Pine Hiller

The proceedings will be informal
and we look forward to a jolly evening together. Songs, old and new,
will be sung; Dalhousie quartets, a
Dalhousie orchestra, and performers
from the Alumni and the Student
Body will contribute to the entertainment. Smokes and refreshments
will be available in abundance.

Come one and all and let’s have a
real show of that Dalhousie Spirit of

which we have heard so much this
Fall.

Sincerely yours,

MURRAY M. RANKIN,

First Vice-President,
Dalhousie Alumni
Association.

 

Correction Please

Carl Dexter, and not Carl Giffen
as was reported in the October 20th
issue of the “Gazette,” was elected
to represent the Junior class in the
dent | y Students’ Council. "Also Blair Dun@ | rs | of the first year men | lop was, elected Vice-president of

a te
iit WT lm) cee, 4
is T

Miah eed |

on to the culprits, The
dent. set. was that these

   
     
    

 
 

sh a alle

i 1
.

‘ v a »

a w ™ ity ,

ie | a ae ae _ ai

        

aes

Presents...

FRESHMEN FROLICS

Tonight at 8:00, Dalhousie Glee
Club will again take great pleasure
in presenting Freshman Frolics.
This year’s show will be highlighted by the appearance of several
students who already have made an
enviable reputation for themselves
in the field of music.

Among those appearing in the
show will be Loretta Dickinson, one
of Dr. Vinci’s outstanding pupils;
Cyril Bugden, a coronet soloist of
Queen Elizabeth High fame, and
Libby Guy, who will render a number, accompanied by a male chorus

( ten voices. Our St. John songstress, Helen Garson, will warble a
tune or two and there will be two
dancing numbers performed by some
of Dalhousie’s loveliest freshettes.
(Don’t miss it, boys!)

Keep an eye on otr singing
‘serum’ man, Billy Lund, as he plays
and sings for us. Of course, no
freshmen show would be complete
without the “Sheik,” who, accompanied by Julie Kaplan, will do a
repeat on the number which made
such a hit at the Freshie-Soph
dance. ‘Alfie will render more than
one number so have the stretchers
ready for our swooning females.

With such an array of talent the
show promises to be one of the best
in many years and a very large
turnout is expected to see it.

Oh yes, don’t forget the dance
which follows the show. One of
Halifax’s best bands, Jerry Naugler,
will do the honors.

Program Of Topics
Arranged For Round
Table Discussion

Last Thursday night a meeting
was held in the Arts Bldg. Rain
came and brought with it a smaller
attendance than usual, but enthusiasm and spirits were not dampened,
It was decided to draw up a program
of topies for discussion. All these
topics will be vital, controversial and
interesting to all students. Scheduled for this week is a discussion of
the perennial French Canadian problem, ‘and Capt. Grenier, Army Edu-eation Officer, will be our guest
speaker. Refreshments will be provided (at nominal cost). If you have
some views on the matter, come up
and air them. This is an all-student
organization, and we want student
opinion. Meetings will be held every
Thursday night. at 7:30 in Room 3 of
the Arts Bldg. Watch notice boards
for posters.

Examination Lists

Lists of students who will qualify
for degrees in Arts, Science and
Commerce and for diplomas in Edueation and Engineering have been
posted by the Registrar. Any omissions or alterations should be _ reported immediately.

Office of the Registrar,
November 1, 1944.

 

NOTICE

The Dalhousie Students Medical
Society met on Thursday, the 2nd
of November, and in the course of
business drew up a reply to a recently published article which dealt
with medical students not participating in athletics. This reply will
clarify various aspects of the matter neglected in the above mentioned
article. You are referred to the
next issue of the Gazette.

Gazette

STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

Tonight Dal Glee Club) Acadia Trip Highlights Outlined

 

Students
Attend
First Blood
Donor Clinic
Nov. 7

 

  
 

In Dispatch From Gazette Reporter

W ar-(torn) Correspondent Accompanies
Dal Voyagers on Annual Trek
Shining summits of Acadia hospitality highlighted the an
nual trek of over 200 Dalhousie football fans to the ancient
Acadian town of Wolfville last Saturday, where weeping skies
drenched Axemen and Tigers indiscriminately as they fought to
a 0—0 draw, and Hatchetmen nicked the Cubs for an 11—6 win

with a blazing last-minute try.

The Dalhousie Expeditionary Force
entrained frem Union Station under
the able marshalling of Commander
Jack Boudreau,, M.C., and enlisting
recruits enroute arrived intact in
Wolfville — “Home of Acadia University, Spreading Orchards and
Beautiful Women” (the sign said)—
at approximately 1100 hrs. in a Valley drizzle that steadily increased
through the day until it reached such

of supremacy stood secure in the
Tiger’s lair.

The game itself has received competent handling from the Gazette
Sports Department; from the grandstand angle, the Tigers and their
Cubs ably compensated for trials of
food and weather.

Out-Cheer Opponents

Amazing to leather-lunged Dalhousians was their own ability to

monumental preportions one “under- | oyt-cheer the overwhelming ranks of
the-weather” Dalhousian plaintively | the home-towners, and led by a

commented, “certainly take their
Baptism seriously up here, don’t
they ?”

Meagre Fare

As a mark of greeting to their
visitors, Wolfville restaurants threw
open their (back) doors to provide
nutrition for the gruelling activities.
The two types of sandwiches’ at
Pete’s were delicious, while the excellent dinner at the Evangeline was
commended highly by all six Dalsters who got there before supplies
were exhausted.

Open-handed Acadians even gave
up a corner of their grandstand at
a mere 35c (10c off for players) to
shelter the visitors, and though a

hoarsening but unquenchable Boudreau they unveiled long-disused vocal
powers to scale new heights of sidelines support for their team.

As battle echoes faded, and another jolly round of refreshrnents
restored soggy fans, the gaiety of
the evening opened and a joyous
band of Dalsters chalked up yet another notch for Acadian  openhearted good-fellowship. Soft lights,
mellow music, and tickets at 50c per
throw for team members .. . said
“Welcome! Welcome, old friends.
Receive the glad hand of Acadian
Fellowship.”

Gym Space Restricted
Of course it was pointed out,

few near-drownings were reported,|‘lt’s rather a small gym”, so the
there were no fatalities among the | Dalhousie visitors could hardly rea
spectators.
Floor Mop Effigy
Longest completed-play of the day

was a grandstand-length run of a/|

suitably-attired floor mop, supported
by three Black-and-Goldsters, who
encountered little opposition in the
entire dash through the ranks of
embattled Hatcheteers. A game and
a half later, stupification gave place
to indignation and Acadia roared
into Dalhousie minions to avenge
the mopping-up, but the attack was
repelled with heavy losses to the

sonably expect any Acadian to give

lup a party for the purely selfish

motive of keeping dry. And if they
would only drag an Axette, they
could come in for a dollar.” Dal
coeds appreciated this high tribute
to their ability to fend for themselves.

As revels ended at midnight, Dalhousians encamped in their cosy
Pullman and awaited the arrival of
the D.A.R. streamliner — jestingly
known as the “Fast Freight”—-which
roared through the night at 12%
m.p.h. to the quiet Citadel City —

aggressors, and the stringy symbol

| DIP

WHAT DO YOU THINK OF ACADIA HOSPITALITY?

100% of all students questioned, thought that the hospitality extended
to the visiting Dalhousians, while perhaps not the fault of the students
of Acadia altogether, was extremely poor. We heard of Dalhousie couples
who, being turned away from the dance because of the bad weather

Continued on page 2

 

 

DALHOUSIE INSTITUTE OF
PUBLIC OPINION

 

‘}and the lack of other amusement at Wolfville, were forced to wait at

the railway station until the train was due to leave.
* *& * ad
WOULD YOU APPROVE OF THE RE-ELECTION OF THE
KING GOVERNMENT?

50% of students queried thourht that the re-election of the Mackenzie
King Government is the best solution to the problem of post-war reconstruction in aCnada. However, many of the above volunteered this opinion
only because they feel that the Liberal party is the only one that has
sufficient men capable of handling Canada’s problems. 30% think that the
man Canada needs is John RBraclen. 10% of the students prefer the CCF
to the Liberal administration, though some of them are frankly dubious
as to whether or not this is the opportune time for the CCF to take up
power. The remaining 10% were undecided.

ok ue a oe
DO YOU THINK THAT THE FACULTY SHOULD TAKE A
GREATER PART IN CAMPUS ACTIVITIES?

75% of the students think that it is desirable that the faculty should
not take a greater part in student activities. The reason most frequently
given, is that the presence of members of the faculty at many events
would tend to put a damper on the fun. The remaining students were

for it, mainly on the grounds that if the faculty took a greater part in _ |

social events it would stimulate fellowship between the faculty and
stedent body. ms

a es sah 
vt

  

 
    

    

Editorial Room, Arts Bldg.: Phone 83-7098

t ®

  

  

 
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
    
    
  
  
  
     
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
     
    
   
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
    

Bee en? __ Editor-in-Chief
Mas. JIM McLAREN (4-2236) ews _ Features Literary
POPE BOB McCLEAVE JOHN HIBBITTS
lation Sports __ Photography
OODMAN ALEX FARQUHAR ERROL MacDONALD
a BILL MINGO
_ Proofs = Cartoons
RRY AT. R. TUCK
_ Reportorial
BELL = £ART SAFFRON LOU COLLINS
‘FMAN  #£«QJACK SIDEL AL LOMAS
acDONALD GRAHAM BATT (C.U.Pe) JACK NICHOLSON
ee ' Business Manager
. SE FRED MARTIN (38-5036)

_ TRADITIONAL ACADIAN HOSPITALITY

.thenaeum” (student publication of a small residenlege in the Annapolis Valley) recently published a verse harangue referring to last week’s Dalhousie-Acadia footencounter. The greater part of this treatise, however, is
ittack on the caustic cartoon appearing in the last issue of
Gazette, and considered “more infantile than puerile” by
sombre, conservative-minded Atheneans.

‘he pompous Acadia scribes, apparently unable to take an
ant ribbing, were “shocked” by our spirited portrayal of
-Axemen rivalry. Furthermore, the fact that the “Athen” lacks a staff cartoonist, threw additional fuel on the
of childish resentment. Bt
rhe fatiguing editorial goes on to censure the “undignified
ct” of Dalhousie supporters at the game. The criticism,
el, is far from warranted in view of the inhospitable welded the Dal aggregation as,a whole. Members of both
uads, by the way, were charged “50 cents per head at
e in the Acadia gym that night while hordes of Glod
ick supporters were denied admittance with a characterurish of Acadian hospitality. Under such circumstances,
-called “undignified” actions of our Dal rooters seem fully
‘he “Athenaeum” concludes with a flattering reference to
10usie as “an institution with standards and traditions supsedly as high as our own.” Ha, Ha, Ha!
This, then, is our parting advice to the Athenaeum’s edistaff: First, set YOUR OWN house in order, then come
of mourning and do your best to acquire that sense of
pur which has been so obviously lacking in past years.

.: Our staff artist (who has donned sack-cloth and
sends his humblest apologies to the “Athenaeum” for

et

1¢ “infantile and puerile” cartoon in last week’s Gazette.

Tate UNWARRANTED CRITICISM

RPP sys (The following is not written as an invective against any one person.
It has a “general” application and is designed to prevent needless friction
misunderstanding in the future.)

The fact that material submitted to The Gazette does not
S appear in print, has been the theme of a melancholy
chanted about the campus of late by one of our contribuBlissfully unaware of the facts, this individual proceeded
ack our paper with venomous abandon and to accuse The
> a of “an undemocratic attitude” to campus
_ These rantings bother us no end—not because conscience
_ pricks (for we are not in the wrong)—but because we feel

re ;

yeen prompted by the sincerest of motives in the best interof Gazette readers in general.

We remind our readers that Gazette space is strictly
aited and that unforseen circumstances (such as the lastmute arrival of advertising cuts), may force us to omit ma_ terial for which we would otherwise have found space. All we
, ear do is give prominence and preference to those articles which
. owe GREATEST INTEREST TO THE GREATEST
‘The Gazette does not play favorites. Our policy has been
to submit to the “majority opinion” of our readers regarding
ews coverage, editorial and literary comment and. the general
pearance or “layout” of The Gazette. We appreciate the consuective criticism of Dalhousians in every faculty and will enavour (as far as possible) to comply with the individual
ms of our readers. But, above all, let it be a fair and just

t cism—based on truth rather than the fictional imaginings

an offended ego.

‘To promote “the continued prosperity of Dalhousie Univery and the progressive interests of its student body” is the
incnpal aim of this year’s Gazette staff. We have a right to
pect interest, co-operation and fair play in return.

i

a
.
a

_—

’

ADIA TRIP HIGHLIGHTS—
_ (Centinued from page 1)
dt ary indeed after the night life of
_ the Valley Town. the shafts—three Engineers turned
_---: Douse The Glims ublicity agent for Imperial Oil—
ngs, cheers, devotions, and the Kerr sipping orange juice through
asional round of Rummy lighten-| several yards of adhesive-tape—Dunthe Great Return, featured by the|lop calling engineers to the Mercy
Seat—Unrepressed Wmotions from

of a top-ranking railroad offian apostle of the Higher Light,|the People You Didn’t Think Would
Do It—Boudreau valiantly rasping

murmured over the Dalsters re“Razoo-Bazoo I got six in the last
ten minutes” at 3:10 a.m—Smith

ful silence. “May I suggest you
setting out via car with a large load

s and gentlemen kindly refrain

extinguishing the illumination
—Shorty applying engineering ingenuity in compressing five-foot-one

and if youse !7(%!$ don’t stop
ng the glims every &$?!(, one
ouse stays in Windsor fer de|in a three-foot baggage rack—Mary
end”. (When asked by a fellow | deciding “This is bigger than both of
| to transla e from the Swa-|us”—the Foster brother-sister act
genially replied, “Us En-|witha strong crew (e)—“Have a
n't need no English”). —_ | chocolate” -— Shields reaching new
s dav n broke with a rasp- | heights in early-morning devotions—
the distant smoke-|McCarthy insulting Roe and the
e hea Toronto Terror—Graves doubling for

oe re of as
Viaten 77"

Acadia Trip was over.
Bits from a Baggage-Rack:—Lund

USO
ee

    
     
    

~~

      
   
   

   

 

ee |
eavens outdid them. another | ire

Pw ~ th
aie |," ar —
- mi 7 a a a= K -. a

*
Me eae Py.
a be a ep
ee ¢ Pe ie -)

 
    
  

_- “THE OLDEST.COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA" |

doubling for a cart-horse between]

R.—“Anybody Got aj]
Park yg ae eae

 
      

“LIFE IN THE STACKS”

(Herewith a journey into the mysterious unknown with an ancient
inhabitant of the “stacks”)

Have you ever wondered as you happened to see a son of Dalhousie
with a particularly preoccupied look on his face disappear rapidly into that
section of the Macdonald Memorial Library, known to its inmates and
others as “the stacks”, what kind of place it was, and what went on in
these regions of the “other world?”

The stacks censists of rows and rows of books piled higher and deeper than elsewhere in the library. In fact it extends over five floors, and
very industrious is the mouse, or student who consumes even a part of it
in his stay at Dalhousie. But there are not only books in “the stacks.”
No! Here and there at most of the windows are to be found small tables
and chairs. Some of the latter are especially favored with legs capped
with rubber, and you may be sure the competition for such a treasured
possession is keen. Legend has it that a former inmate entered very late
one evening for the sole reason of carrying off one of these treasures to
his table.

A word about the inmates of “the stacks” seems necessary here. Severally speaking, they are what is now termed “lovers of the liberal arts.”
Science students are unknown and unheard of in this region, and one
member of the fraternity of “the stacks” even went so far as to say of
one scientist-to-be (a medico) ‘‘Why, he’d go absolutely crazy here!”
Quite true, no doubt, my friend. “There seem to be a number of good
examples around anyway”! we hear someone exclaim. In particular this
is the Promised Land of the variety of bookworm known as the English
Student. Here amid the works of Shakespeare, Milton, Chaucer et al he
spends his days, and sometimes his nights, acquiring knowledge and culture. This is also the home of the philosopher. It is evident that Dalhousie’s would-be philosophers are not all of the same variety. Some are
the watch-tower on the Rhine type (to be found on the top floor) while
others descend to the neither regions (bottom floor) to speculate as to
what would happen if all the books fell down, for instance.

We are very much afraid that knowledge among the inmates of “the
stacks” is not at a very high level, or so it would seem: The latest evidence of this is that one particularly mad individual saw a classmate recently who was wearing a rather flashy pin on her sweater. “Say, what
in the deuce is that?” he exclaimed. It took quite a long while for him
to realize that it was a “frat pin” (men’s) and that under the decorations’
there were three Greekyletters. He still isn’t quite sure about the letters.
Among the various amusements of the brotherhood of “the stacks” the
findings of one “stack-lover” (or otherwise) is a racy publication known
as the Gentlemen’s Magazine, takes first place.

And now let us take our farewell of “the stacks” as we see at fivethirty on any afternoon “stack lovers’? wrench themselves from their beloved desks and creep unwillingly out the library door, and as they walk
sorrowfully down the steps we can hear them sing:

Dal library, ’tis of thee,
Sweet land of books and me,
Of thee I sing !

“WHAT IS A
UNIVERSITY EDUCATION?”

(In reply to this question here is the 3rd in a series of articles to
members of the Dalhousie teaching staff)

 

 

One of the main functions of a University is to prepare young
people to a profession: divinity, law, medicine, teaching professions,
and literary professions of all kinds. Professional people can use
their hands, but only by accident; they also can become rich, but that
will be another accident: the professional man is not concerned with
manual labour and his specific aim should not be to make money;
being an authentic, though very modest descendant of the monk or
the noble man of former ages, in a modern democracy where God
and the King have been replaced by Society and the Public, he must
devote himself to their service.

Now it is obvious that a certain amount of training is needed
in each profession. The University will train the student to diagnose, or build bridges or write articles or poetry. But we feel that
pure training is not enough. The young graduate will have a life to
learn all the tricks and knacks of his specialty. What Society, the
boss, really needs from him is some training with a maximum of
education that will enable him eventually to be best trained in anything, with the best result.

But if we want to enlarge the notion of education beyond the
aptitude to put forth effort and be trained, we will be almost obliged
to use words like: values, principles, philosophy, perhaps even destiny and meaning of life. Which all imply that there is in us “something else” than is dreamed of, in laboratories planning for the
world of tomorrow. The “planners” have strong positions and clear
arguments (Cf. John Dewey in Fortune, August 1944) though not
entirely free from the metaphysical implications they blame upon
the othérs,

Education is liberation from our condition of bondage: bonds
from within, bonds from without. Not that we want to refuse
ultimately that human condition of ours, and get away from our
ownselves, our families, our countries, in search of impossible enchanted islands. What we want is, through knowledge, to be able
to bear our burdens as things not imposed from without but freely
accepted from within. Call it, if you like, passage from inconscience to reflection, from spontaneity to will, deplore the fact that
we cannot live like happy brutes: it is our dignity and our duty. An
“equilibre” will be reached in the long run, but not before a long
dissatisfaction and groping in the dark—to shake the minds of the
students out of their peace; to bring up to their attention all kinds
of problems still unsolved and perhaps impossible to solve and to
make them feel that comfort in intellectual life is death; that is the
worth of a university education.

Ignorance makes you sleep, knowledge only awakes you. Know
your own heart through great works of literature; know your country and your countrymen through history and social sciences. Know
your mind, human reason and its expression through Mathematics,
Philosophy and the Languages. Know nature through experimental
sciences. Then perhaps you will begin to understand that great
forces come from society, nature and our physical and spiritual inheritance that meet in us; you will see their strength and lose the
peace of your mind; but after four years of College and \a whole
life—because to the job there is no ready end—you will be able to
understand them, control them perhaps and gain something of the
serenity of the great sages of the past.

GERMAINE LAFEVILLE,

B.D 7 iy

 

 

 

 

 

i Department of Modern Languages. |:

 

MEDIUM
OR

PLA Y ER 7S BA VOY ot ea ea Ar Ratt eS

TY

 

 

 

THE

Rosedale Nurseries
HALIFAX DARTMOUTH

381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 Spring Garden Rd. H-2200

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited

Fresh Fish Specialists

HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

  

YOUR SUITS

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER
When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

 

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish
lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
—send what you have to Cousing often.

  

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE
73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years

Enter Any Day
af

Tuition counts from date of Registration

Halhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships

Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

fee ee hi B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
iplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics M i
iaiguacen Mob tiee » Mathematics, Modern

Gradua : ; :
ra ey - wa ue recognized standing, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professi :
Course in Public Administration ional Faculties

M :
ay alsoile Scholarships, on entrance and through the

The Professional Faculties

r, M s a. * n
aw, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course
in the B.Se. course, about Sibu. acae $160 a year,

Residence :
Shirreff Hall, residence for wo
: all, residence for women. |
Carefully supervised residential facilities for mon.
‘ Be. fe ete aad 2 . © a
re ay F, MTS he ya

a |

ed

 

 
   
       
   
  
   

P
y if " L
marae Sane Patan),
_ ae ee
ie ee ~ *
; \ te aye : 3
es - 7 r . > ‘ +A
mn , 1 R
; a a
; ! f ,
. iy se i , oath
q | - i. 7 Bs,
he h e ' ts 2)
4 mS
: is rs . > * . — E : 4 r
; ;
; é i a ei i =
= = 7. : a : a ae | ifs - 7
.

    
  
   
 

  

*

 

» DISCIPULI
. Established in conjunction with
te D. I. P. 0.

\ i

\ Question: Do you think that com”  pulsory service training is of any

_ benefit to the student, the university
or the country, at the present time?
*

*

T. Donald MacDonald (Science
’46)—“I really don’t think it is doing any good, because they won’t
admit any more men in the Air
,  Foree anyway. It is a good thing
as far-as physical training of the
student is concerned. The C.O.T.C.
does not seem to be doing much
good, as its purpose is to _ produce
officers for the army, and I don’t
think many are being produced. I

fi
wo

'y don’t think the training is beneficial

to the country at all. I think it is
just to satisfy the public by making
them think that college students are
doing their part.”

+)

Don Dunlop (Engineering ’46)—
_ “TI have no experience in either the
' U.N.T.D. or the U.A.T.C., but in my
opinion, with the exception of the
two weeks at camp, the time spent
in training during the year is
wasted. I have heard from students
»* in other colleges, particularly Mc_ Gill, that all engineering students
“need only take three hours a week
training and I can’t understand why
the students of this fdculty at Dalhousie should not have the same
3 privilege.”

LL. I. Payzant (Engineering ’45)—
“T believe that military training
should be compulsory for all physically fit males even in peace time,
. -and that it was one of our country’s
mistakes that this was not a government policy before this war. I have
Ls been in the C.O.T.C. and the U.N.
_ TD. and I believe that the U.N.T.D.
is more beneficial as far as engineers are concerned. The two weeks’
training period at Stadacona was
spent mainly in studying Marine
Engineering, which was both interesting and beneficial.”

+

ey

 

R. J. MeCleave, (Law ’46): For
myself, there is partial value; for the
others, no, because at this stage of
the war—having an eye on recent
developments on the “Zombie” situation—it would seem that with the
University year ending in April, and
the probable military set-up on a
voluntary basis for cartying the war
to Japan, the students should be
more free for the unlimited pursuit
of their own college careers. There
apparently is no government policy
at present in force suggesting a demand for huge reinforcements overseas, though I believe there is a need.
We should be allowed to follow the
government lead, though the politics
of the Home Army situation do not
appeal to me.

|
|

rt

Vincent MacMaster (Dent. ’46):
Compulsory military training in universities is a farce at present. Even
when the war was in its most crit
ical stages, the policy should have

  
   
      
 
  

<i

 
 

 
 

 
     
     
   
   
      
       
      
   
 
   
   
  

it been either to discontinue college
he courses and put the students in the
» army, or let them devote full time to
_ their various courses. The policy of
__ the government, while always vague
/ and uncertain, has been especially
_ elusive with regard to the status of
/ college men. I think, therefore, that
) such courses may be of some value
to myself as a physical fitness
_ course, but it is of no value to the
university or to the government. A
Bs, “man cannot serve two masters, and
' with all respect to our government
e policy, I think that a student’s masA ter is his career, and that his un_ qualified devotion and service lies
erein,

Alex MacDonald, (Med. ’46): I
nk that it is not essential either
nyself, to the university, or to
overnment. What is the use

  

  

 
  
   

SS ee ee ee ee eae
: Ce aay See ete Poy v7 7 iF: Rakai a i a 7
eee ti dae ee et wo le ery en

* >" ' b Ria
ren, ' | : Wet s if om Fi
A! Vay | one 4 a i 7

re hid * as v2 f t

       
 
 

D-O-P-E

(Dalhousie Organ of Puerile Enigmas)

  
 

»

‘
Question: |
WHAT’S SPIRITUAL ABOUT A SPIRITOUS BEVERAGE?

With our alert minds ever turned for questions of current (and oh—
how current!) interest, we rushed pell-mell for Pallas Athene, campus
authority on questions of Moral Turpitude. Springing fully-armed from
the head of a nearby freshman, Pallas said she was happy to be able to
give her opinion on this pertinent query. Wringing our hands enthusiastically, Pallas shrieked; “Drinking is sin. There’s nothing spiritual about
whatever you were talking about. “Flourishing an empty coke bottle in
one hand, she bounced off to her Zoology lab. Our spirits dashed, we went
in search of someone who knew of someone who could possibly tell us
where we might be able to find someone who knew somebody who could
tell us where to go. To find the right answer, we mean. Our next encounter was with Sonia Moron, Arts ’—. Sonia giggled deprecatingly.
“Why I don’t know. But it does seem to me that you ask the most ridiculous questions.” Well! Considerably affronted, we sought refuge in the
lofty drafting rooms of certain engineering gentlemen who have enlivened
our campus life to no small degree. As our elevator mounted skywards
to the drafting rooms, a fleeting doubt flashed through our minds that
perhaps we were not in touch with the right people. Once in the drafting
room, our doubts were instantly dispelled. Clustered around a Varge
etching, tastefully framed in neon, were real live honest-to-goodness Engineers. Touching one timidily on the arm, we posed our question.
“Whadayawant?” he snarled, hurt and dismayed for a minute, at being
disturbed from his work. We told him. “Crazy artsmen,” he growled in
an angry tone. We assured him we did not ask these questions through
sheer, elfiin whimsey. Convinced of our serious intent, he recollected
“soberly”, wiping his chin. “Well, I really couldn’t say.” Then, at
length, he delivered the astounding statement: “Drink only milk, myself!”
We were so aghast we stopped our quest and ran to get this to the

GAZETTE FEATURES

VICTORY LOAN .. BUY BONDS

 

frankly, we don’t understand, be
y ? cause outwardly at least both Steve |

“hb deanna

printers.

 

 

Who says the drafting room is not
safe for females? Last week a fourlegged variety peered under engineers’ pant cuffs for over an hour
without causing even a minor riot.
Luckily for the dog, however, it had
departed before the boys realized it
was of the opposite sex.

Nasty little echoes continue to tell
their tales of a hard week-end at Acadia; it was really surprising to see
how the boys act when they can do
their stuff and then depart forever
more. The brothers Burgess held
their own both on and off the playing field; one would almost think
Ruth Manning belonged to the S.P.
C.A. to see her guiding the limping
Art cautiously around the dance
floor. And Bryce? Well, he had
the choice of a pair of Nancy’s, and
finally made his choice at the expense of our defenceless ‘“Nail-up
Boy.” According to a number of
Acadia girls, a fellow named MacLeod was the outstanding figure in
the second contest; in fact, had the
dance lasted much longer, he probably would have convinced even himself. Sportsmen say every game has
its dark horses; Vic Clark found out
to his sorrow that the blind date
game is no exception, in more ways
than one. Ever hear of a dark horse
with a stiff lower lip? We were
amazed at the poor showing made
by the Horizontals; “yell, yell, holy
hell” was very much in evidence
throughout, escorts were topnotch,
but they seemed to have forgotten
the remaining one-third of “wine,
women and song.” Looking back,
the general impression of Acadia
seems to be poor sportsmanship but
a very efficient dating system.

Newfie Paul Russell undergoes a
bit of kidding about his original
home, but there is nothing but the
highest esteem for his present domicile. Even our taciturn President
sighed wistfully when he learned
that Paul stays at the home of THE
Laura MacKenzie.

Will someone please relieve Prof.
Yeadon’s anxiety by explaining why
he has been termed a “misogynist” ?
He seems to think the word refers
to a fatal disease, and after consulting Webster, we’re inclined to agree.

We should also like to know why
Lester Page ran out on a 8rd year
Arts studert.at the pep rally. Perhaps he didn’t have confidence in the
car’s ability to reach its destination;

  

   

    

  

f os — 3 : — ines
and Margot are in the best of|
re OE ee la rd Eagle a ed fa”
wet a f . me y Ls. i [ i fae,
a, ae » eee
a ee th vil wis

FeSOURRE

     
   
 

The Mouthings
OF Paracelcus

By this time another
meeting of the Medical Society . will
have been held.
that it will deal very largely with
Camsi; there is the matter of ratifying the brief, Can Health Be Planned,
and probably delegates to this year’s
Camsi convention at Montreal will
be appointed.

important

It is anticipated

To turn to lighter matters, one
thinks at once of the brief holiday
enjoyed by the third year class after
the last Pharmacology exam. It is
quite proper to assume that last
Friday evening, all weazling was at
a complete standstill. It is simple
to arrive at such a conclusion, for
even Abbie Levitz took the evening
off.

And all our young  Lochinvars
come out of the East. The Grey
Wolf of Dalhousie comes from
North Sydney. He is pestered, it is
true, by the she-wolves of Sheriff
Hall, three of whom are at present
chewing one another and the phones
in attempts to take him to the
Sheriff Hall formal. Said one shewolf to another, “If you take the
gay Colquhoun from me, it’ll be as
a carcass!”

‘Who has not heard the foul jokes
of our red wolf, whose colour comes
from his politics, and his wolfishness from his highly affectionate
nature toward ... well, that’s anybody’s guess. But has anyone seen

  

aN

; ~
“eee 4
+ . “
ee Pe
7
3 oo \
Sy Pye es
ey e
<j & >
RE Si

    
  

FEATURE |
' DAILY AT —

5.
3.15,
6.15

g Ps fe
A a . , 5 |
= pt - = ar , ’
Poy ki me) a .
‘ i Ve’. “a

Would Stage Gala

Activities.in Science Building

It is a pity that Dalhousie University hasn’t been considered as a separate entity in the Victory Loan drive. While it

jis possibly too late to do anything about it now, we offer some

simple suggestions for future loans.

The usual apparatus should be set up for marking the
progress of the loan. This should be a graduated board stretching the whole three stories of the Science Building, with the
zero mark at the top, and the final objective set somewhere near
the bottom. Unusually distinctive features should mark the
surpassing of various totals, such as at the 14, 14, and 34, mark.
For example, when the indicator which is suspended from a rope
reached the 144 mark, it should release a chemical apparatus
which would set free a stream of hydrogen sulphide into the
air, thus giving Halifax the general impression that Dalhousie
is not quite satisfied with its progress to date.

Then, when it reached the half-way mark, out would pop
an Engineer on a cuckoo-clock principle, and he would chant,
for the benefit of other Engineers and the campus generally,
that Victory Bonds were worth supporting. When it reaches
the 34 mark, Prime Minister King could pin a tail on a rear
view of Hitler, and on reaching the bottom a bomb could be set
off which would blow the Science building to smithereens and
thus ensure Dalhousie’s fame to all Canadians.

THE FACTUAL TRUTH

For those who take things. literally, ,we had better explain
that the Victory Loan is the most worthwhile effort we have
in Canada today, but the conduct of the officials who are selling the Loan to the people, and the attitude of the people themselves should come under review.

At Ottawa, to mark the opening of the Loan, Prime
Minister King and Miss Shirley Temple united Autumn and
Spring in a charming demonstration of Loan effectiveness. Miss
Temple was draped in a beautiful fur coat, forsaking bobby socks
for the great occasion. The Prime Minister was draped in
every photograph he could climb into. However, we are inclined
to agree with the song that “It’s a long, long, while, from May
to September”, and give the palm to September in this case.

It is reminiscent of the circuses and free bread in old Rome.
There are boys fighting and dying overseas, and giving themselves immeasurable credit in the eyes of the God they are
fighting to preserve in this world, if it is to be a decent-and
humane world, without blase and base forms of worship. I
imagine that anyone who has sons or friends on the fighting
line will fork over their last $50 to get a bond. I don’t know
why the rest of us have to be spurred to patriotism by shows.
If the realities of war don’t exist for us, maybe we’re not fit to
live in the post-war Canada that servicemen are fighting for.

The only conclusion being that any student who can afford
it, should bet out and buy a bond.—McC.

 

him on the prowl on WelMngton
Street ... hunting beasties for the
lab.; is that the story?

 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”
THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Halifax

An old friend in new clothes is
Lauchie the Militarist, whose most
recent idea is rumoured to be an
annexation of Newfoundland as another county for Cape Breton. The
indomitable Wilson King is, of
course his chief supporter.

Y.M. C. A. Building
Phone 3-6881

 

 

 

ORPHEUS

Noy. 6, 7 and 8

“THEY LIVE IN FEAR”
and “THE LAST HORSEMAN”

Nov. 9, 10 and 11
‘GOOD-NIGHT, SWEETHEART’

and “BORDER TOWN TRAIL”

 

every life insurance buyer!

in all walks
History highlights—important to

Just 75 years ago the first Mutual Life

DAVID 0. SELZNICK’S

First Picture Since

: WITH THE WIND and REBECCA
. TV destinguished Stars

    
   
      
  

 

NOW PLAYING

== __AN_ ODEON) THEATRE

  
    
  
   

    
  

    
 

a

oe se

representative began assisting his neighbours to gain the benefits of low-cost life insurance protection afforded by his Company.

Since then the Mutual Life has grown
steadily and surely. Insurance protection

pone for Canadians has advanced from’

500,000 in 1869 to over $700,000,000 in
1944; and in the intervening years over
$85,000,000 have been paid in death and
disability claims, $120,000,000 in matured
endowments, annuity payments, etc., and
an additional $89,000,000 in dividends to
policyholders.

At the present time 180,000 Canadian
families are enjoying the benefits of lowcostlifeinsurancein this“mutual” company.

Alike ... yet different

Life insurance companies are much alike as
to policies and rates, but ectual long-term

| results vary widely. We invite you to com
Page Three

 
    
   
  

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

 

     

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

OXFORD

Today and Saturday
“COBRA WOMAN”

in Technicolor

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
BETTY GRABLE in
“PIN-UP GIRL” in Technicolor

 

GARRICK

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday

“THE EVE OF ST. MARK”
Michael O’Shea and ®
Anne ®axter

 

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday

BING CROSBY in
“GOING MY WAY”

 

CAPITOL

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“Andy Hardy’s
Blond Trouble”

*
Monday to Saturday

“Dragon Seed”

 

For 75 years providing

LOW-COST LIFE

2 a SET
ee teas DS
oF
\

   
   

  

AN
of life
pare The Mutual Life of Canada’s record
with that of any other company. Evidence
of the satisfaction of Mutual Life policyholders is furnished by the fact that whe
families and succeeding generations have
entrusted their life insurance programs exclusively to The Mutual Life, and each
year approximately 35% of its new business comes from policyholders,

Have a Mutual Life representative explain the special features of this Company
.. - and let him help you select a policy
adapted to your particular circumstances,

Make this Your Company

TUAL JIF

OF JAL [FE

Established 1869
Waterloo, On

75th YEAR f

 

~

Head Office

 

Aa 2

 
 
  
 
  
   
     
   
   
     
      

a'r Persie ey J .
{ ae I (lige ts We leal —h

ote

by s

is)

Ps * a)

™ R ele

Ss

or at P

Hy

fi
x
“ats fj Lime |

bey

mi
t
4

. , ; RAM r
/ f= ‘ °

faa 1 foie
vi bale

: j

aaa) ) A ~

fe , cA®

Ut

. = M

ita an

al Tigers will be||
it when they field
‘squad of the season |

vee

: ns est team in the

we have lost through in
services of Bobbie Mac- MacDonald Casuality

league’s highest scorer,
n, Adam Smith, and Ker|Qut of Season’s Play __

1, one of the four seniors who In two rugged matches at Ray
 
 

ee teers mond Field last Saturday Dal seneres “performing in the iors battled the Axemen to a scoreaturday, will be moved up|)... graw, while the Cubs dropped
serum again, and his place|g close decision, 11-6, to the Hatchhis younger brother Brice.|etmen. The cost in men was exke has taken over Mac-|tremely heavy to both squads;
s position as tail-up, and| blond Bobbie MacDonald, the high
Farquhar Carten’s as flying | S¢°rer of the city league, received
‘with the remaining spot in the | Several blows on the leg, developed
‘quarter line going to Lew| Water on the knee, and is through
Pav MAL RS HT, with football for the season, perhaps for all time.

Tr

practically new three quarter
ar - not be expected to be as

7 t) as the old, and Coach Ral
As usual, the elements frowned
on the day, hurling down the rain
s wet weather tomorrow in bucketfuls until the field was rerelays eat carry fee Relat duced to a soft clayish muck. | Both

the attack. If it doesn’t rain, the |##™es were an excellent exhibition
Me ork) ate of amateur sport at its best, for
ay a Born eon Ine team work was the order of the day,
and there was little display of individualism. Acadia’s senior scrum,
although not heavier than ours,
seemed better organized, and managed to get the ball out more often.
But the Dal backfield, using smarter strategy, swept in and broke up
the Axemen’s passing plays, gaining territory time and time again.
Although no one man caught the
eye of those in the stands, there
were one or two whose performances certainly impressed the players. Eric ‘Bugs’ MacKenzie turned
in his customary steady and faultless game, and Bob MacDonald,
sorely injured in the beginning of

IL: 6, ae
nil Cole Retains
at . aris hi the second half, won the admiration
Mt Championship of ail by refusing to go off until the

ng his first real oppositiom | final minute.
person of freshmen Alfie] pil) Bell, a product of Mount A.,
ingham, veteran’? hil Cole sur-| scored all the points for the inter0 a bruising attack in the first | mediates, on a penalty kick, and a
and swept through the second | ,oworful plunge through a wall of
et his Dalhousie Men’s| en for a try. Acadia won the
mateh in the last forty seconds of

Tennis title. The scores
play with a beautiful passing play

+A TA
A .

Pits yak ‘
Badminton is getting underway
Monday night under the manship of Freshman Alf Cunningand, a tournament against
‘Naval Establishment is

for that night. Badminton

_ enjoy a successful year in
since there are many proven
about the campus, including

i nia Phillips, Jo Robertson, Alf
innit ham, Blair Dunlop, Bernie
ghton, Connie Archibald and

ald and others.

3, 6-1, ‘Due: to a leg injury
ed in the Acadia football | »yyning almost the whole length of
‘Blair Dunlop was forced to| the field, Stuart, the end threeis semi-final. match with quarter, going over.

Teams: Sr. — ‘Wade, Farquhar,
Giffin, Burgess, Knight, ‘Carten,
MacKenzie, MacDonald, Lund, Dunlop, Clarke, Ernst, and Feanny.
Inter—Bloomer, Cunningham, Fraser, Dunlop, Graves, Burgess, Kerr,
Bell, Morgan, Waterfield, Clarke,
and Cooley.

Ze . : 7
< .
7 . @ i
: be if ;
i i EAS
uy wnd
‘ 5 ”] pI —_- een : ;
7 =! ; ; J :
rye vel es ee
. + ya 4 *
a ¥

At

 

  

# VERITHIN §>:
a= is a revela- bY
fae, tion. All 28
= colors sharp
en to needle
Kee ie pe for
f Peis he 2e detail. i

EPs «

 

 

 

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Hoids Tigers To Scoreless Draw; Cubs Lose

 

 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
   
    
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  

Now we introduce Burnie Ralston’s Tiger edition of 1944.
The fellows have an enviable record this season and are hoping
to take the City League honours. They have not lost a game as
yet and no opponent has as much as crossed their line.

Here is some sketchey information about the boys. To really
appreciate their worth, come out and watch them trim Navy
tomorrow.

Bob Wade Fullback:
Ibs.; second year man, keeps a cool
head and is a good tackler and kick
Bugs is the most dependable player
on the team and has been playing
heady football this season.
for Cubs last year.
Bob to lay off football for this year,
during which he has been playing

Carl Giffen: Wing Three Quarter, 5’ 113-4’, 180 lbs.,
great speed and tackling ability to
First year on the

Injuries force

good advantage.

Serum man:

Alex Farquhar: Inside Three
along very well and played good

year’s captain and playing against Acadia.

year on Dal’s varsity team.

Serum man, 5’9”, 162 Ibs.
tile Art is playing for the second
year on the Tigers.
and tricky runner.
Bob Knight:

Center lock. Played for Mt. A. and
First year with Tigers.
Don Dunlop: 6’, 202 lbs.
With Lund,
make our serum a hard one to push
Performed with Cubs and
is in his first year with the Tigers.
5’ 111-2”, 167 lbs.
A front liner, who is helping get
the ball out to the backfield quite
This is Alan’s first year
with the seniors.

A hard tackler

season played for Cubs and this
year is playing commendable ball
for the seniors.

Pete Flynn: Wing Three-Quarter:
5’ 91-2”, 145 lbs. The best tackler
on the team who played a_ few
games for the seniors last season.
Pete was hurt in the first game of
the year but is back again now.

Adam Smith: Flying Half:
Adam came to Dal after
starring on several Rothsay teams.
A very fast and shifty runner whose
services were lost to the team when
he sustained a broken ankle
league game,

Key ‘Carton: Flying Half:
Kev stepped into Smith’s
shoes after Adam was injured. Kev
played on the Bengals last season
and had previously performed for
St. F.X. and St. John teams.

Eric MacKenzie:

| 9 OE we Victory eos

Buy an Extra Bond t

Ralston Feanny:
lbs. Centre Heeler: First year man,
Quick with his feet,
makes him an ideal heeler.

Had previous experheeler

which factor

ience with Mt. A.
who does yeoman duty on the front
line position.

Jerry Naugler’s

Orchestra

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

  
   

 

The
F Canwapa

sr

PAYAg
Canant AtaNOres
Banko
mre

PRi
are

OMPANY OF CANADA,
HALIFAX

LIMITED

| "THE COCA-COLA €

 

|J18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD. 2 ss”

   
   
   
 
    
  
 
    
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
    
    
    
     
 
    
  
   
      
   
    
     
        
         
         
     
     
     
     
       
     
       
   
         
       
    
    
 
 

November 3, 1944

 

HOW TO
PLAY FOOTBALL

(No. 3 in a Series by B. A.Ralston)
NO. 3—GIVING THE DUMMY

In “giving the dummy” the player with the ball must use his brains.
He must know when to give it and .
when not. The feint is made when ¢ ‘
your opponent is between two minds. |

If you see that he is prepared to
go with the pass, go through all the

  

| actions of passing but retain the un
Soccer Men Lose ball. The ball is held firmly in the */

To Fleet Air Arm inside hand, that is to say, if the 9

pass is made to the left the ball is Ve

Today at 5:30 p.m. the Dal soccer) jo1q in the fingers of the left hand “s

eleven will endeavour to chalk up . 4

: j with the right hand lightly touching yi
a victory in a match with a Cana-|it, The action of passing is then =
dian Naval squad, having already| wade the left hand going out to -)

dropped their first contest 4-1 last full length and still retaining the
Friday afternoon to the Fleet Air|},,1)

Arm. — The right hand is drawn across

Playing together for the first time] .44q away from the ball, so that . © —
as a team, the boys were outclassed your opponent is led to believe it *
by the more experienced liners, who has left your hand. Then when #
had participated in the playoffs of your opponent is deceived, the ball y
the local service league. The latter is quickly drawn to the body and i
enjoyed an overwhelming. territorial Z 4

advantage throughout both halfs, Mee Nase basctyn net oy |
and, save for the sensational per-| .ocions, such as when the goal line y 3
formance turned in by the Dal goal} ;. a1ose at hand, or when a feint “om
keeper, the score would have been| ..+7 open up a bee ban) in the! demuch more lopsided. Our single on ais 4
tally came during one of the few
occasions the boys were able to Fending or Straight Arming
press the flyer’s net, the ball being
passed around several times in front
and finally touched in by Burnie
Ralston.

Dal, incidentally, sorely pressed
es ap “rough play,” and a strict referee

Team: L. Feanny, R. Feanny, W. fae oe ie a . ae a
Fe: a. Ne J. /Sidels GA and and never ,,
eanny, J Seve aide with the closed fist, and the. fend
must be aimed at the chest or
/ shoulder of the tackler, and never

at the face. If a tackler is coming !

Interfaculty Football at you from the right, throw the

weight of your body on the right
Schedule Announced leg by stepping into him and then

Nov. 2, 12 to 1— push him off with the right arm.

An effective weapon for a player A
on the offensive is fending or (~
straight-arming. It must be done
in the right way or it may be
brought under the heading of

Simon, B, Ralston, Copp, Hosein and
Nunes.

~

Freshmen vs. Engineers. The proper time to straight-arm is
Nov. 7) 12 to 1— when the opponent is actually makEngineers vs. Arts and Science. | ing his dive. ,
Nov. 10, 1.15 to 2.15— f

Meds. vs. Engineers.
Nov. 14, 12 to 1— y

Arts and Sci . vs. Fresh i
hie eo PLS
Arts and Science vs. Meds.

Nov. 21, 1.15 to 2.15—
Meds vs. Freshmen. Your class pin may be

small—but it is important. i

   

   

 
    
   
  
  
  
   

After Any Show

OF...

Before Any Meal

Think of ...
The

Green Lantern

Birks have the “know A

how” to make it look

   
   

   
  
   

“smart, yet cost a little.

   

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED | ~~

    
 

    
  

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

      
     
 
    
 
    
   
   
  
          

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*

 
   

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL
Photographers to Dalhousie University

| ay See Gur Pictorial Work for Gift

  

  

   
 

~ aes My ae a ie ' Soa fe
