 
   

a

voices:

 

5:

E 8
i ay
‘ ——
ne woah | ;
a a ,

| AMERICA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 

  
    
   

HALIFAX, N.S

French-Can. Problem Discussed
By Round Table Members

 

  

Conflicting Opinions Aired

National Unity and the French Canadian Problem were the
problems under hectic discussion last Thursday night at the

f.
ae y
Poe

  

Coonie and Uppie should be made
joint Ministers of Transportation,
and recommendations to this effect

will be made to the Prime Minister

in case some more of his cabinet resigns. Their femmes really rode
home in style from the Phi Rho

  
 
 
 
 
 
   

meeting of that increasingly powerful society, the Dalhousie
Round Table. Enthusiasm among the fifty or sixty students
present was at a high pitch. We did not find a solution for the
perennial problem, but that was not our main objective. Our
main purpose is to get students thinking about our major problems, whether international, national or local, and to give them,
through their own efforts, a basic understanding of the facts
and essentials of the problems.
On Thursday night Captain Gren-©

not a trumpet. Music hath charms, |Strife was the differences in our way
Renee, so never underestimate its of life and trends of thought. Dis_ effects on the artistic soul of man.

   
 
   

ier, Army Education officer, spoke to | | .
party the other nite . . . on bikes. |us on the differences between French | Commerce S ociety

And at the same party Renee de- and English speaking Canadians and | C ompletes Plans For
cided that her marriage ideal was said that the main source of the! pwoyye | lviillionaires Ball

The Commerce Society got off to a
flying start last Monday evening,
when plans were completed for their

cussion was very lively, in fact at
Bo ee ae times got so hot that the Chairman
i actually fell out of his seaé in an at
Well folks, it looks as if the she-|tempt to keep it from exploding. The ennual dance to take place on Nov.
wolf has lost her’second bet, and it|sore point with most students was|24th in the Dal Gym. Three comseems that Alfie can run as well as|the Overseas Conscription issue and mittees were chosen to look after adhe can croon. But apparently she| Capt. Grenier suggested that it was vertising, decoration and _ overall
hasn’t given up hope yet. Did you/the difference in basic ideologies supervision. Al Cunningham, on the

with at the Hall Formal?

- Knowsey just hates to tread on any
notice who Alfie had the ninth dance|which kept English speaking Canadians from understanding why the
French speaking Canadians voted
against conscription for overseas.

 
 

* ws
“Knowsey” Apologizes =

Knowsey apologizes to you with Spirited Discussions

_ utmost sincerity, Roslyn, for spelling} Pye general feeling of most stu
your name wrongly last week. dents was that the discussion was
one of the most interesting and
spirited held on the campus for a
long time. After the meeting was
officially declared over, most students stayed behind and got into

one’s toes and doesn’t want to offend anybody. For such sore grievance we are truly sorry, Rosy, and
we won’t let it happen again. And
fellas, Rosy wants us to tell you that many heated discussions of their
she likes variety in her men so all own. It was close to twelve before
you various men had better be on the last ones had left the building.
the lookout, and if you want to date} Next Thursday night, Nov. 16, the
her up, just tell Roy at the gym
store and he will see what he can do
for you.

Round Table will have another discussion and there will probably be a
speaker. The subject will be “What
shall we do with Germany and the
Germans after the war?” and promises to be just as interesting and
lively as last week’s discussion. Al!
students are invited to attend, and
; refreshments will be provided if the
Then there was a Freshman who, | exigencies of war will permit. Don’t
when asked by one of the girls to | forget, Thursday night, the sixteenth
go to the Formal with her, parried | at 7.30 p.m. in the Arts Bldg. This
with “Why don’t you pick on some-|is a vital subject and we want the
one your own size.” And while I opinions of all students. This is your
think of it, someone suggested that organization, and we want you to
the perfect match and the couple of |make the most of it.
the week is Julia and Choppy. If

x *
Our cat was not hygienic,
So we kicked him off the place,
Because he spat upon his feet
And wiped ’em on his face.

«ek &

you have any suggestions for next; A meteorologist issa science man |

weeks Couple of the Week, drop it
into a sealed enveloped addressed to
Knowsey and leave it at the Gazette
Office.

*x* * %&

We've been told that the reason
why Bobby and Claire spend so much
time in the library at nite of late
is because they like the life at Pere
* s+ *
Hi, Yo Silver
_ We also hear that all ties have
been broken between the Hall lovebird Miriam and her ardent para
who can look into the eyes of a
beautiful girl and tell whether.

set forth the opinion of these men.

that the medical course has not

It is fundamental to recognize@¢———

4 + men riding itno the Hall on horse
mour Ronnie. Youth has had its

ie, changed greatly in the past few
fling ete., etc,

years; it has improved but not beae 2% 4 come much harder, and it is relevant
So Miss McKeen has strongly im-|here to deal with changes only in
plied that Connie, Renee and Joyce|terms of the difficulty of the studwill not be going to any more Supper |ies. But in the present classes of
Dances at the Nova Scotian for some | medicine there are not many who
time. After all you can’t blame|play football. It is perfectly clear
Miss McKeen when she sees Navy- that if a man has not played football
Hedoie he begins his medical course,

¢ at midnight. That is carrying;he is unlikely to take up the game

mig lk.

 

 

_ things a little too far. Riding horses | afterward.
into the Hall is not too bad in itself,| There is moreover the spectacle of

but Miss McKeen must have decided | the third year class fo whose fiftythat. she’d had enough when they |two original members only twentystarted whooping at the top of their |five remain. It is a matter of statislike Tonto and the Lone|tics that casualties have been higher
an 3 among those who played football

  

advertisement committee, was very
enthusiastic about the plans for the
“Millionaire’s Ball”, when interviewed. He promised a good time to all
pane attend, the best band in town
(Jerry Naughler’s to you) and a
lively and gala program. Tickets
can be had next week at $1.00 per
couple.

Be Trials
Thursday

Sodales will hold its debating
trials next Thursday noon in Room
Three, the Arts building, to pick
contestants for three major debates
'this year, with St. F.X. here late
this month, and for Mount Allison
here, Acadia away, after Christmas.
Topic for the trials is on the “Zombie” problem, with a particular as| pect to be picked by the entrant, and
'a short address to be given on the
‘same. Entrants, however, will be
| allowed to speak on their own subject if they prefer.

 

 

 

The executive has announced that
entries into a campus-wide interfaculty competition should be in
within the next two weeks to Presi'dent MecCleave, Vice-President Fred
Thompson, Pine Hill, or Miss Rat| tee, Secretary, at Shirreff Hall.

 

;

 

 

Why Football is Out of Fashion
At The Medical School

A short time ago a brief article was published in the Gazette which
seemed a challenge to medical students to turn out for football.
number of medical students believe that the story will be more complete
if other aspects of the matter are brought forth.. Herein it is intended to

A large

 

 

than among those who have not.
The first and second year classes
have not found it necessary to analyse these statistics to reach an
obvious conclusion that, even if one
does play good football, studies
come first. The second year class
have their own casualties to remind
them of such a first principle.

The fesult is that in these days
few medical students are to be found
in the ranks of the Tigers. This is
unfortunate. All power to those who
are,on the team. One wishes there
were more. But present circumstances are a fair contraindication
to a large turnout. There are few
who play, and casualties are high.
Think it over, Arts and Science.

oe el
ltl

  

, NOVEMBER 10, /

Sparkling F rosh Show
Has Women, Song

Under the genial management of
Art Hartling, Dalhousie Glee Club
presented one of the finest Frosh
shows of recent years. Playing before a capacity house every Freshman star received his full share of
encores, And after the final curtain
rang down performers and audience
crowded the gym floor together, for
a danee as successful as the show
that preceded it.

With commendable “and unprecedented efficiency the curtains opened
at almost the scheduled hour, unfolding Dals latest lyric star, Loretta
Dickinson. The auburn-haired, golden voiced songstress lofted her lilting lyrics through the dim cavernous
spaces of the gym. During her two
songs thirteen ushers, it is rumored
were kept busy reviving the hordes of
swooning engineers.

A touch of old time minstrelsy
spiced the program in the second
number, when a sextet of charcoalfaced comedians gave the audience
an inside view of old New Orleans.
Unidentified voices whispered that
the coffee colored collection of light
footed entertainers might be, Nancys
Colquhoun & Wilson, Marian Withrow, Elsie Cruickshank, Jessie Morrison and Peggy Darroch.

With a seductive flip of the hip,
a wicked glint in her eye preceded
by bobbing searlet ostrich feathers,
Libby Guy introduced herseslf to the
howling mob of savage wolves, as
the “Belle of Avenoo A.” Swaying
off stage to the rafter shaking applause she was followed by Alfie
‘Swoonatra’ Cunningham who dripper his sugary overtones above the

(Continued on page 2)

Archibald Elected
To Student Council

The new representative of the Dalhousie Student’s Medical Society to
the Students’ Council has been elected. This new representative is Dave
Archibald, of the third year class.
Dave comes from Glace Bay, and to
the accomplishment of being a Cape
Bretoner he has added the accomplishment of being a Cape Bretoner
he has added the accomplishment of
having been a Kingsman. Two years
ago he received his B.Sc. from Dal.
Dave is a member of Phi Rho medical fraternity and has always been
very active in affairs of his class
and the Medical Society. Throughout the years he has attended King’s
and Dal, he has combined high
scholarship with a considerable
mastery of the piano.

This year CAMSI meets in the
City of Montreal at the University
of Montreal. CAMSI, that is, the
Canadian Association of Medical Students and Internes, now embraces all
nine medical schools of Canada, Dalhousie, being the latest member,
joined last year. This year’s representatives from Dal are Ian Rusted
of second year medicine, Peter Loder
and Dave Archibald, both of third
year. Ray Ghiberson, president of
the Medical Society, was at first
elected to attend the conference, but
he found that other duties would
keep him in Halifax. His decision to
remain in the city caused consternation in the third year class, for nobody was-in any way expected to fill
the gap. After a long and exceedingly verbose meeting—these sudden
and completely unexpected difficulties often result in much talk—Dave
Archibald was at length persuaded
to attend in Ghiberson’s place. The
delegates left on Thursday for
Montreal and will return next Monday.

$$$ ——$—$——$—$ LLL LLL LL LLL LL LL

ly

azette

_ STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

at ite

  

“Gold D” Award for.Cheer-Leading
Debated at Student Forum

D.A.A.C., D.G.A.C. to Appoint Trio

Today, Thursday, at noon noon a very interesting student
forum was held at the Chem Theatre, President Art Titus pre
siding. The meeting was called to discuss the King’s agreement
with Dal and also the subject as to whether cheer leading should

be awarded by a gold “D”.

Concerning the King’s question,
there seems to have been much controversy and bad feeling between the
two campuses for the past two years
or more. The present agreement,
signed in 1939, was read at the meeting so that all could understand the
position of the King’s students on
our campus. It was agreed that the
agreement should be left as it now
stands.

There then followed a very spirited
discussion on cheer leading. The first
point definitely decided upon was
that cheer leading should definitely
merit an award. This decided upon
there came the question as to how
the awards should be given. Some
thought that the whole matter should
be referred back to the Student
Council, but the majority thought
that it was a question which should
be settled immediately. Three recommendations were made concerning
the problem:

1. That a felt “D” should be awarded at the end of each year and
a gold “D” at the end of the
second.

2. That an intermediate “D” should
be awarded at the end of each
year and at the end of three
years the candidate would be
eligible for a silver “D”’.

3. That no felt “D’s” be awarded,
but 15 points be given to the
cheer leader who has attended at
least 75% of the games through
the year. At the end of the second year with a total of 30 points
the gold “D” be given.

Alec Farquhar then moved that we
have three cheer leaders, two male
and one female, which motion was
seconded annd carried.

Bill Mingo moved that the two

male cheer leaders be chosen by
D.A.A.C. and the girl by D.G.A.C.
Other suggestions made were that
they should show their worth at one
of the dances and win by the amount
of applause; also that they apply to
the student council and be chosen
there. Bill Mingo’s motion was ‘seconded by Larry Sutherland and carried by a majority vote.

Larry Sutherland then made the
motion that it should be definitely
decided that a felt ““D” be given after
the first year and a gold “D” after
the second providing that said leaders be present at 75% of all the
games.

It was moved by Ted King that it
be left to the executives of D.A.A.C..
and D.G.A.C. whether or not two
sport felt “D’s” may be combined
with one cheer leading “D” to merit
a gold “D”.

Holding Second Blood
Clinic, Tues., Nov. 14

“Last Tuesday’s clinic was not as
successful as had been anticipated,”
Chairman Larry Sutherland of the
Dal Blood Donor Society, told the
Gazette yesterday.

Approximately 55 donors attended
he said, “considerably less than the
number present at the first preXmas clinic last year.”

However, Sutherland believes the
deficit was due to the absence of
football players and the fact that 1st
year med. students were busy writing examinations.

The second clinic is planned for
Tuesday next when a “much larger
attendance is hoped for.”

 

 

 

DIP

 

DALHOUSIE INSTITUTE OF

PUBLIC OPINION

 

HOW DO YOU THINK WE SHOULD TREAT ACADIA?
60% of those questioned think that when Acadia comes down they
should be given the cold shoulder, and thus they may get a taste of their

own medicine. Some of our more belligerent fellow-students suggest that
we should take a “forceful” attitude in regard to the visiting Acadians.
Space does not permit (fortunately) a description of the ways and means
suggested by the latter group. The remaining students think that we
should give the visitors an object lesson as to the way a real University
treats its guests when they come up for a game. They feel that the
Acadians should be treated as the Dalhousians were not treated at the
recent game at Acadia.
ak ES e *
WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE RESIGNATION OF
COLONEL RALSTON FROM THE CABINET?

40% of those questioned thought that this action was the only pos-_
sible move for Colonel Ralston, considering the duty placed on him with
regard to those active force men he had so recently visited on the various

battlefronts.

30% think that considering the circumstances, Ralston did

not do right to cause an upheaval in the cabinet at the very time when

people need confidence in it.

20% of those queried think that the resig
nation of Colonel Ralston indicates that the King Government is on the
way down, and that this will be very much against the Liberals in the

next federal election.


* *

10% were undecided.

“ee

WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE FACT THAT A STUDENT
WAS PUT OUT FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH

C.0.T.C. REGULATIONS?
75% of those queried think that the C.0.T.C. took too strict a view

of the matter, and that a readjustment could easily have been effected. .
They consider that this step of the authorities was quite unnecessary

under the circumstances.

Of the remaining number, some had no opinion

on the subject, and those who did, thought that since all other students in
the University must comply with the C.O.T.C. regulations, the action was

justified.

 

 
cea , :

; a
oi.
ne pia my Ramee, hat ri
. : rN
“ %, a at A os
« ae A B 4

Cc
Saat | - :
cas Sol oa ae
a . a .9
7 ae ait ‘
i 5 _ o
aa < . a
- a 25 Cc
r any * <A F
= <= ,
‘

ES TAPS
JIM McLAREN (4-2236)
Features Literary
BOB McCLEAVE JOHN HIBBITTS

Sports Photography
ALEX FARQUHAR ERROL MacDONALD
BILL MINGO
‘Cartoons

R. TUCK |

LOU COLLINS
. AL LOMAS
“MaeDONALD GRAHAM BATT ue) JACK NICHOLSON
vs Business Mana
FRED MARTIN (3.2598)

Ps een Be, But Isn’t

In view of the large saa of Dalhousie rooters attending last Saturday’s football game, how can we explain the
mediocre cheering attempts eminating from the crowded bleachf ers? Scattered, muffled squeaks scarcely audible on the playing
_ field were designed to spur on our boys to victory.
To laymen (from Q.E.H.S., Tech or Saint Mary’s) imbued
with spirited patriotism for their respective alma maters, this
pitiful demonstration must have appeared bizarre and childish.
Little wonder the so-called Dalhousie Spirit is open to attack on

i ane off the campus!

ma” Actually, the turnout of Dal supporters was better than
oes. _ average. Individual cheering was admirable, but, the combined
; “efforts of the Gold and Black assemblage proved a miserable
failure. But why? Because the Dal fans were scattered all over
_ the grand-stand in little clicques of two and three. There was
no solid, compact block to respond to the frantic exhortations
of our cheer-leaders. Everything was hopelessly decentralized
and disorganized.
gl There is only one workable solution to the problem. Rope
_ off & large section in the middle of the bleachers for DAL_ HOUSIE ONLY, fill it up with a few hundred pennant-waving
: patriots; produce some shoutable, original cheers ..., and the
_ old “unity is strength” adage will spell out a new chapter in the
at history of Dalhousie college spirit.

FROSH SHOW
(Continued from page 1)
sentimental sobs of the Shireffiends, nee, :
then sizzled the stage with Julie If a “Pretty Girl is Like a Melody

‘Kaplan in a demonstration of the| ten Dalsters were presented with a
i" Jump. complete symphonie as the cream of

the lovelies of the Class of ’48
The greatest collective length of | ohorused Berlin’s tribute to pul
Fiddler’ Lund and his rocking piano,
ably assisted by a cheerful chorus of
Freshmen beery-tones.

e oo: . _ leg freshened the weary eyes of| chritude. An eery howl preceded.the

: worldly Dalhousians since the speak|.qvont of Alfie who turned the
_ easy era. The programme called it “Melody” into a jam session and fola can can and accordinng to- the lowed up with the now famous
“sot”to -voiced commentator “they “Sheik of Dalhousie’.

a ai tt The Show reached a stirring cli
ieee eared and (sharp - eyed) | max with the entire notable cast on

-| stage supporting Loretta Dickenson’s

tribute to our gallant Eastern Allies,

“Russia Is Her Name”. Then the

Bh A cross section from Barrack | curtain closed as the cast swung into

1 aca Ballads was coincidentally re-|the United Nations Victory Song,
1 “Marching Through Berlin”.

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia —

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B-Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
‘Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.
Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses.

The Professional Faculties
in }
_ Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

“Inclusive Fees: in the B ye course, average about $160 a year,
mite tae ae B. Se. course, about $190 a year.

Residence

- Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
uyeeare, supervised residential facilities for men.

o

 

+. +h

BOOK REVIEW

Forever Amber, by Kathleen Winsor. Macmillan’s. $3.

Here is a book that is not literature, and I doubt if it will be very
popular even a few years from now, but it is definitely war escapist material, and should tally highest on the list of the year’s best sellers. It
is a 900-page story of the sex life cf one of those wanton creatures which
dot the lighter side of the Restoration, and brings into reading form the
women’s world as—in the main—seen by a woman. As such it is surprising, in many spots. There is no deep interpretation of the social phenomena of the time; Miss Winscr seems more engrossed in the gross.
merchant, who dies with a conven
The story is briefly this: Amber |,
* : ient legacy for his wife, the be
at an early age, meeting with a .
; S |trothed of. her dead mother (readers
will find this macabre), and finally
In the turn between Commonwealth |js settled on a young gallant, to

young. gallant returning from France

and Restoration, is seduced by him| make her offspring by the King lewithin six hours and 24 pages after | itimate.

Miss Winsor was a reporter of
| football games before she got around
to this seasoned touch, and at times
able) and goes to London with him. | her writing very effectively shows
He leaves her for the sea, and she |this newspaper influence. Of inter
the meeting (in the intervening time |
her morals prepare for the inevit- |

Special Rates to Students =
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

Rosedale Nurseries
HALIFAX

381 Barington St.
111 Spring Garden Rd.

runs through a varied career for another hundred or so pages, and setting herself up as a woman of some
fortune, and being pregnant by her
first lover, she marries Luke Channell to honor the child. Luke runs
off with her money, and is never

|pretation of the day, there is little;
here is a straightforward account,
| teetering perhaps from peak to peak,
with a shy glance at the vallies.

Of the high parts of the book, one
is especially Amber bidding against
| her lover’s wife at an auction, only

heard of again, making Amber’s sub- | to find the lover outbid her. At this
sequent marriages somewhat bigam-/| stage, one court lady says: “This is
ous. a fine age when married men prefer

She is thrown in Newgate Prison, their wives to their TA:

but escapes through a highway | The story is terrible, and probfriend with an eye for her beauty,| ably everyone won’t climb through
the conclusion not being hard to | it to the rather sudden ending,
gather. She goes on the stage, and| which in any other book might exthese chapters are perhaps well|cite the reader to exclaiming “A
worth reading, finding the odd lover | dirty trick to keep us from hearing
or so to aid her off hours, until her | more about her.” In this case, one
original—the real one in her tener te apt to say “Well, I’ve read the
returns and kills the latest in a duel, | book, and can discuss it in company.”
dashing off again, with an intermit-| The main thing about the book is
tent Plague, to escape marriage. | that it will be the rage for a while,
Amber, somewhat like Scarlet! and one has to read it to be abreast
O’Hara, finds worldly needs press-'of that stupid animal Current
ing, and marries in turn a rich old Trends, — ameC,

“WHAT IS A
UNIVERSITY EDUCATION?”

(in reply to this question here is the 4th in a series of articles by
members of the Dalhousie teaching staff)

A university education is, I suppose, the kind of education you
get at a university. If so, North America offers a wide
subject matter ranging from Ancient Greek and the higher mathematics to hair-dressing and ice-skating. Indeed, some universities
on this continent seem to operate on the principle that any subject
whatever is worthy of university study, provided students will attend
the course and pay the necessary fees. I can only say that their
idea of a university educatior diifers profoundly

I do not believe that anyone has really had a university education who has not during his stay at university encountered some of
the fundamental problems that confront mankind, ‘has thought
deeply about them and has exainined carefully and critically some
of the solutions proposed by great minds of the past. I mean
problems like the relationship cf Mind and Body, the one and the
many, Continuity and Discontinuity, the Nature of Truth, or Justice,
or the Infinite. It’s easy to touch on those in a superficial way and
to give glib and superficial answers, but I mean that each student
shall do some’ real honest- beteoodness thinking, as fearless and independent as he knows how. Such thinking produces a human dignity and a humility sometimes lacking in the products of our university.

Now I know perfectly well that you can lead a horse to the
water, but you cannot make him drink. None the less I think the
animals should be led to the water. I would even go so far as to
suggect that their heads be submerged in it for a time; but perhaps
in those days of kindness to animals that would not be the correct
treatment. I suppose, too, that there will always be those who do
not have the wit to drink—a university education is not for them.
To the others‘ it should prove a sustaining water of life.

To drop the metaphor, I believe that Philosophy should be the
core of every B.A., and Mathematics the core of every B.Sc. I would
therefore make a course in Philosophy (by which I mean metaphysics) compulsory for every Arts student, and a course in pyre
Mathematics (mot applied) compulsory for every Science student.
By this I do not mean that the ultimate philosophical problems are
not encountered in the study of other university students. On the
contrary, they are encountered in every subject worthy of university
study.

But since the main purpose of study in languages or history or
chemistry is not to make an attack on philosophical problems, I
would like to see some time definitely set apart for them lest they
pass by unheeded or undetected. This is the essence of a university
education.

_ From what I have said you will easily understand why I do not
approve of the granting of university degrees in Secretarial work
or Nursing or Home Economics, and why I do not approve the admission to a university curriculum of such subjects as Journalism or
Cookery. But if anyone can show me the connection with the ultimate philosophical problems of beauty culture or tap-dancing or the
jazz band, no one will welcome more eagerly to the campus those
ornaments of our modern civilization. ALEX. S. MOWAT,

“Department of Education.

 

 

choice of

from mine.

 

+

4 November 10, 1944

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

See Our Pictorial Work for Gifts
24 Hour Finishing Service
PHONE 36992

THE |THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
| Limited

Fresh Fish Specialists
NOVA SCOTIA

DARTMOUTH

Wyse Rd.

2209 ||| HALIFAX 
YOUR SUITS

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish
lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes .
—send what you have to Cousins often.

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

5S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL
COKE

SOFT COAL
FUEL OIL

Halifax, N. S,

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in

Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students

To Students with Engineering Diplomas.

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President.

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*
   
    
 

. present.


 

          
  
   
   
 

  
 
 
 
 

 
 

_ Established in conjunction with
Pek PO: |

 

should alse be conscripted?

Gordon Feron, (Pre-Law, ’45.) I
think the Zombies should be conscripted for General Service, but I
do not think College students ‘should
be for two reasons; firstly, there
does not seem to be sufficient need
for them, and secondly the future
must be reckoned with as well as the
There will have to be some
College trained men to build up what
has been torn down by the war. I

think this service that College stu
dents may give their country in the
future is more important than that
Which they will give if they are con‘Seripted. However, if they are really
needed, I suppose they should be
drafted.

2 % *

Paul Russell, Engineering, ’46.)—
This is not a question that can be
rushed into. I think that in certain
courses the student’s training is
more important to his country than
military service. It is up to the
state to say which is most important;
trained doctors and engineers, or reinforcements for the troops overseas.
College students do appear to be
favored, and in view of this favoritism shown them I think they should
accept their responsibility of the

little military training they are required to take with a better grace |

than they do. One thing I am sure

of, students should be drafted if they
-do not pass the required standards
in their classes.

me ey eee

Vern Wallace, (Engineering, ’47.)
I think the Zombies should be sent
overseas and if they are, College students should be sent over also. College students should certainly be
conscripted if the manpower shortage is so bad that the Zombies are
needed to fight. In my opinion
every physically fit man should be
conseripted for General Service without exception—or else no one should
be required to simply train and stay
in Canada.

: * * *
~ Waldron Auld, (Medicine °49.)—
College students are not “Zombies”,
draft-dodgers, or malingerers; they
are a conscientious group of Canadian citizens who are serving Canada
in the best way they know how. I
don’t think that the position of the

‘students is in any way attached to

the government treatment of Zombies, Therefore, as long as there is
to be right thinking in Canada, as
long as the eyes of Canada are on
the post-war world, so long will the
student be justified in staying in

_Cannada, and out of the Army,

Alter Any Show
Me ees a eS |
Before Any Meal

Mon, Tues, Wed. |

SIGHT”

f 3 at | ; ‘int ale?
VED SPR
. ~~ ll ‘ ¥

i
hel Te

 
 

entirely within the grasp of the

  
   
 

       
   
   

 

   
    
   

wR “LAST: RIDE” : | Nei eee
and “SILVER ciTy Kip” ||

          
   
 
  

  

Br
X
ee

ont Se Ai
ieee a =A ~) ae
ce
Rte | K '
:
é

or wae
5

  

   

 

By Hall. Other Crilies_Proverbial Monkies--Brittanica

Edition--Take Over Feature Page

—Change Acclaimed

: Fresh criticism having been heaped on our leary head, we have herein
~~ | enlisted the aid of contributors to add something new to our page. You
d . ? ‘have often heard about thos proverbial monkies, whom, if given a million

uestion: Should the Zombies be. : ; ee ;
ete Foe General Service, and |>°2"* °F £9 to do some typewriting, would undoubtedly within ‘that time
if an As yeu think Colle: fi students |e"? the entire Encyclopedia Britanniea—junior miss edition. We re7 5 cruited them last night. We found the monkies, three of them, sitting in

characteristic postures, “Speak No Evil, Hear No Evil, Say No Evil.”
We reminded them that to succeed at Dalhousie, especially among the

critical set, one should not cover one’s lips, or block one’s ears, or cover

one’s eyes. Having got their paws back to normal, they began:
People Are Less Intelligent Than Monkies

The three were unanimously agreed, after padding away at a typewriter for the space of some ,ten hours, that Dalhousie students were the
queerest of people. The authority for this proposition is somewhat hazy,
having been mixed up with digressions on the metaphysics of the Red
Revolution and the life story of one of the lesser heroes of the Renaissance
—Italian branch.

The general grounds for such an allegation were: Dalhousie students,
while trying their hardest, just don’t look like monkies. “Co-eds trotted
by us with short skirts and bare knees—Gawd, what’ knees—and yet they
did not approximate any form of intelligent monkey. They wore new
styles, somewhat on a similar pattern, which leads us to vonclude that
the whole feminine race is militaristically inclined. At least they can be
regimented intc clothes. No self-respecting monkey would ever roost
with another dozen monkies in one tree; we might get picked off by the
leopards,” they wrote.

Shirreff Hall Is Filled With Women

The monkies clambered around Shirreff Hall, traditional home of
Dalhousie girls, creating some furore, and narrowly escaping with their
lives in-several cases. Two of the girls grabbed “Speak No Evil” for the
annual Sadie Hawkins Dance, while another group of twenty-six were relieved to find that “Hear No Evil” has been the monkey listening to them.

The Library Is the Home of Students

This section is very brief. No one could be found there for about a
week of the monkies’ visit, but during that time they got to know the local
inhabitants—the librarians—quite well, and one of them has written a
separate biography of her, for the Britannica. Space prevents its inclusion, but the gist is that librarians read books they can’t give away.

| “Though You Look Like a Human, You're Still a Monkey at Heart”
This remark by the triplets was prompted by an interview they had
| with one of the local sporting celebrities, who looks after the Gymnasium.
Swinging froma couple of rafters in the roof, everyone got along famously,
talking seriously-about how to prevent 2 seizure of control of the building
by the faculty, and throwing spit-balls at the local militia in action on the
floor far below.

Enough about monkies.
ace a ae

Alf Townsend, (Medicine °49):|take the stand they do, otherwise
This. question has many and various | they would not take it. Therefore,

~N 7
We ‘ o
i” evs vy (as aus :
v " ie
t i v3
y M bo

 

and. became merged with its tradi
  
  

     
  

ae ms
sky _ < aoe
/ e. j

i é

we:

he

shew Ey

he

PEE la _5
yee
wit
;

et
| Shiek-Araby Lilts
Own Torch Song; Put
Out By Frooshettes

 

A grimy haze emanated from the | back.
f£ Roy’s coffee and the football field as the lone figure picked Gosh and Shells,
its way over the Stodgy campus./onto it, with sundry thrusts with
hung from its ears, dirt typewriters, kept out Acadia.

plastered its pumpkin-shaped head, |

and a dirty grave grey hung about

murk. .

Green moss

its entire appearance.

A groan went up
Henny, traditional aide-de-camp to
Prexie Stunley. “It’s the Republican

nominee”, she groaned, collapsing |

into the arms of W. C. Languish, the
presidential assistant in matters of
removing change from stewedents
pockets at registration time.

“It isn’t”, he fairly moaned. “It

is the return,—and what a return— |

of Rufus Rayne from Rangoon. Begun so long ago he almost became a

man overnight, sprung from the fer- |
tile brain of a Gazoot writer like |

3 |
Athena from Jove, and killed by that |

dastardly McLeak three years ago.
But he’s back. Say—where’s McLeak, he’s the only one that can save
us now,”

it tain’t no use, wrote Gazoot edditer MceGosh, prefacing his remarks
with “It is some use, but we don’t
mean any harm by it”. MeLeak is
now worn out, dead, the pungency
gone from his style, and he is barely
holding on by the grace of three
mohkies.

The figure approached the campus,

tion again.

The Glumnasium was filled to fasci- |
nation with the annual Frooshette |

show. Back stage, a group of slavering Engineers, their hands filled with
flowers, watched the Container-container on the stage. Six of Dalhousie’s sweetest things were dashing to and fro, waving sundry limbs
into the air.

An_appreciate audience roared its
approval. And the Engineers waitled. But every time a lovely would

: like so many others. I don’t know | almost come i ir ar
answers. I think there are too many y come into their arms, Frosh

sides to the question to give a com- | at to think.

plete answer, for to give a complete
‘answer we need a complete understanding of the subject. This understanding’ is, I am sorry to say, not

Federal Government or the private
individual. While there is cértainiy
justification for the position given
the students, I don’t think that those
persons who are so ingloriously dubbed “Zombies” are entirely devoid of
patriotism. They have been given
some reason by the authorities to

ee.

Incomparable
Quality !

OXFORD
_ Today and Saturday
“TWO GIRLS AND A SAILOR”

    

You can count on the type
of footwear you buy at
SHANE’S SHOE STORE
where we specialize in
HIGH GRADE SHOES
ONLY. Select from Canada’s Best... “HARTT”
.. . “SCOTT- McHALE”
“SLATER” and. “RITCHIE”,

Shane’s Shoe Store

397 BARRINGTON ST.
HALIFAX

 
    

Monday and Tuesday
John Garfield in

“BETWEEN TWO WORLDS”
Plus “HENRY PLAYS CUPID”

      
     
 

‘Wednesday and Thursday
Dick Powell in
“MEET THE PEOPLE”
“A NIGHT OF ADVENTURE”

    
 

 
   
      

 

THIRD OUTSTANDING WEEK!!!

re

 
   

 

 

    

 
    

F
:

Went Away |

DAVID ©, SELZNICK'S

First Picture Since

GONE WITH THE WIND and REBECCA
7 distinguished Stars

NOW PLAYING

 

 

Casanova Sheik-Araby was right

fa there before them, and they released

his tow-headed figure with some disgust,missing repeatedly in grabs for
the freshettes. Warbling his them
song, “Or Would You Rather Be A
Skunk”, S-A (by his own right) terrorized the weaker sex at Shirreff
Hall.

The Tigers then floated into view,
fifteen lusty men dragging after
them a swallow-tailed Acadian scalp,
written on it “Acadian hospitality—
old women and lunatics admitted
free’. . After the scalp came the
tearful physogs of six or seven al
GARRICK

Sat., Mon., Tues

“GOING MY WAY”
with BING CROSBY

 
 

 

 

——

 

Wed., Thurs., Fri.

“THEY MADE ME A
CRIMINAL”
and “BROTHER RAT”

 

 

 

CAPITOL

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“Mask Of

_ Demetrius”

   
   
    
   
  
 
    

    
  
 

     
 

*

    
  
 
   

Monday to Saturday

“SEVENTH

  
 
  
   

     
 
 

urns, Resurrected

|wWwas Staying open to treat the late
_ | dancers
from Miss |

‘liquid which was alleged, reported,

     
      
       
        
             
        
       
     
   

 

    
 
   
   
  
 
   

 

   
  
  
  
  

eT ee ei “te
F <a a \ Jj
tbe rire eee 4 sis if iy"
, i, ets se ae w ot ef 7 * <P
’ a aan, - a eS a
4! Poa < r ‘ 4 = . B ¥ —_ = . 7
Tag >) Af Ce i> wT mi ’ Meee di ee elk . 4 ers 2 2 ’
: Ly m7 we i ae 4 eI 4 os "ee os J % a ff ‘
5 . J F ; ‘ ‘ r J i
ae “tl " " + ar it Tk rh 14 vi ~s : 7 . :
- Pia ; e : at ed, 2 ae P . i oe: ae
a. . ’ Three
se at » age .

leged Acadia men, bearing in their firming—to be unadulterated water,
hands hatchets with the handles and|the crowd stared.
heads removed,

Descending the
stares into the Roy emporium strode
“Give us our scalp”, they pled. | the grim carcass of Rayne. “My
“Give us our sign of bpapitalier tebe the weather bureau’s wrong
Without it the whole principle again”, said an innocent freshette.

of our tradition is lost”. But Me- (Will McLeak arise again. Will
hanging grimly! Rayne continue or will it be all
fine again at Dalhousie by the sea
shore? Is Martyr going to avenge
himself on the luckless head of
MecGosh? Is the frooshette wrong,
or just crazy? — SEE NEXT
WEEK, in the —Case of the Missing Cadaver, or I Left My Heart
At the Stage Door Canteen).

The seene grew confused. Roy

at the Frooshette show.
Through a haze emanating from a

and said—sources close to Roy con
 

 

 

=~
CG

acs
Cyt
A

    

 

IN CANADA?

Is it Big Business?
Is it a Bloated Bureaucracy?
Is it a Party Machine?

It should be YOU and it’s up to YOU!

If you believe your democratic rights are
worth safeguarding—

Learn what you can do to help yourself.

SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOKLET

Fill in and mail the coupon below for your free copy of the
booklet, “‘What Price Security?” Your request does not
obligate you in any way.

BRACKEN CLUBS OF CANADA,
63 Sparks St., Ottawa, Ontario.

Please send me a free copy of your booklet, “What Price
Security?”

TPPSCOOOTODROH ESE R SSO RET EDA RDSOOERES HEHE ODESESESSSOOOD DOT OSEES SEES ESbE SORES SS HSSSeEseESeeOSeonS

1-5
es

   
   

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”
THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS
| SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M. C. A. Building Halifax
Phone 3-6881

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

   
  

   
  

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

 

 

  
 

WIRE
PHOTO

Here’s anoth exclusive
feature of e Halifax
Herald and The Halifax
Mail . . . Wire Photo Service. These newspapers
have the facilities to reproduce actual photographs of world evtnts
just a few hours after
they oceur. Such up-tothe-minute interesting features make The Halifax
Herald and The Halifax
Mail the most popular
newspapers east of Montreal,

CLASS PINS

  
 

     

  

Your class pin may be

    
  

  
 

small—but it is important.

     
   
  

  
 

  
      
 
    
  
 

Birks have the “know

   
 
 
 

how” to make it look

 

smart, yet cost a little.

 
     
   
 
 
     

   
 
   
 

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

 
    
 

The

Halifax Herald
And The

~ Halifax Mail

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

 
 
   

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

 

WHO’S THE BOSS —

 

    
      
   

ie “i

ns

l aT +>

f r

ge

ioe .&

qi

— cad
_u e

s ee?

,

ved

:.

“fF
ee

Tigers

“t ¢.
a. shea 1 J

 

EB SIDELINES

by FARQUHAR and MINGO

| The Wednesday night D.A.A.C.
meeting was chiefly concerned with
the Basketball and Hockey situation.

In past years Dal basketball teams

have been entered in the City Senior
and. Intermediate loops, and competition has been confined chiefly with
Army, Navy, and Air Force teams.
This year is it definite that Tech and
St. Mary’s are going to have hoop
teams and are contemplating entry

into the City Leagues. We feel that

a city intercollegiate league would be
a step in furthering interest in the
game among students.
- -.s
If Dal enters in the City Senior
League they cannot begin play until
after the Xmas vacation. Since they
would have to start so late it means
that Dal would have to play two
games a week, which is inconvenient
to Dal players and threatening to
their scholastic standing. Also, as

_the setup is this year, Dal would play

i!

 

only four of their games in our

beautiful gym; all the other being

played at the various service centers.
* %

If an intercollegiate league were
formed in the city, play would not
haye to start until after Christmas
and-only a game a week would be
necessary. Also it would create more
interest among the players and the
students if Dalhousie would confine
playing other college team. We also
suggest that Dal make it a point to
enter into Provincial collegiate
circles.

ARRANGE D.G.A.C.
GYM CLASSES

Hereafter D.G.A.C. badminton will
be held on Monday along with the
student badminton. Tuesday night’s
D. G. A. C. will include basketball,
archery, ping pong and golf.

New classes are being started in
archery and Miss Leonard would like
to see a large turnout for this new
sport.

Arrangements are now being made
to start fencing classes among the
girls.

 

e No TURQUOISE
Pencil is safe since
folks began discover_ ing that your favour_ ite drawing pencil is
also the world’s
-finest writing pencil.

 

oa
es :
te
So
Be)
SR
: bes re

_ SUGGESTION TO
. STUDENTS: a
ee
\- Try a padlock. :
SUGGESTION TO

| OTHERS:
Why not buy your Be
- own? TURQUOISE Fe
is only 10c and you
can find it ‘most
anywhere.

 
 
   

 

 

   

D. A. A. C. HOCKEY
MEETING OCTOBER 16

At a meeting of the D.A.A.C. on
Wednesday night in the Gym the
date for a hockey organization meeting was set for Thursday, Oct. 16 in
the Chem Theatre at 12 noon. All
those able to play hockey, or having
even a remote interest in hockey are
expected to attend. Manager Don
Harris expressed his intention of
getting practices underway at the
Arena as soon as the ice is available.

Plans were discussed for the holding of a club banquet in one of the
local hotels on or about Munroe Day,
all male students on the campus being cordially imvited. The members
of the senior and intermediate teams
would be present as special guests.

Due to the superior quality of the
service basketball teams now being
formed in the city, and the preChristmas opening of the league, it
was decided that Dal would not enter
a team in the City Senior League
this year, but participate in a series
of exhibition games with the service
squads instead.

Long division between parents
Reerety adds up to problem chilren,

Victor and

Bluebird Records

You will always
find your favorite dance and
song hits in

PHINNEY’S
Record Department

Trounced 15-3 By Tech

Dalhousie Tigers concluded their season’s play abruptly last

Wednesday afternoon when they offered only mild resistance to |
a rugged Tech machine, allowing them to roll up a 15—3 victory. By virtue of this loss, we forfeited our right to participate

in the intercollegiate playdowns

On the whole it was truly a pathetic spectacle, five injured members of the team struggling up and
down the sidelines with crutches,
bandages and all the accessories,
tearing their hair, and vainly exhorting their boys to “wake up and
fight,” while the boys themselves,
too baffled and disorganized to do
much about it, merely carried on in
a half-hearted fashion.

As individuals, a few of the Tigers
turned in spectacular performances,
but team-work, on the part of both
squads, was very conspicuous by its
absence. The Dal scrum was a big
disappointment; for a crowd of men
that, on paper at least, profess to
be the heaviest in the league, their
record for heeling the ball out was
extremely poor.

Pathetic Spectacle

The backfield, largely a makeshift affair composed of intermediates and rearranged seniors, were
not able to pass the ball anyway, |

with St. F. X. tomorrow.
but, as it was, they didn’t receive
many opportunities The most of the
tackling was unmentionable.

Ernst Outstanding

It was in the opening minutes of
the game that Dal scored their only
touchdown, Pete Flynn kicking the
ball behind the line on a dribbling
rush down right field, with Ral
Feanny, racing the Tech fullback in
from another direction, to fall on it.
Because of some technical point having something to do with fingers,
which nobody pretends to understand, Feanny’s convert was disallowed.

Tech’s three tries were made by
Hagen, Tracy and Lahey. Bishop
kicked the convert successfully every time. Best men in the game for
the Tigers ware Ernst and Flynn.

Team: Bloomer, Giffin, Farquhar,
Knight, Flynn, L. Bell, McKenzie,
Clarke, D. Dunlop, Lund, Feanny,
Ernst, B. Bell, Graves and Morgan.

 

Winning Streak Snapped

Dal Tigers dropped a 9—0

decision to the Canadian Navy

last Saturday in the best played match of the season. The win

increased the Navy’s leadership
Dal trailing with four.
The sailor machine proved

ficiency, and only the speed and
backfield held down the score.

A few minutes after half time the |
tars were awarded a penalty kick,
and fullback Wilding sent the leather
spinning between the posts for the
first three points. Midway through
the period they gathered in the ball
from a throw in on the thirty yard
line, quickly passed it across the
field and gave it to Millard, who
broke loose in the far corner to chalk
up the first try against the Tigers
this year. Wilding missed the convert. Some minutes later, they
staged a repeat performance from
the other side of the field and, in
spite of our stubborn blocking, Covernton managed to go over close to
the posts.

Aithough they

 

lost, the Tigers |

| played like heroes against the senior

in the City League to 8 points,

stalwart tackling of the latter’s

service men, who fielded a team of
the caliber that could have swept the
league of four years ago.

Bobby Wade, who has been turning in a steady brand of football all
season, was given more opportunities tc snine, and took advantage of
them. His constant, dependable
tackling was surpassed only by his
spectacular drop-kicks to relieve the
pressure when the sailors were dangerously close.

Carten gave several smart exhibitions of broken field running, while
Bugs MacKenzie burst forth with
new bursts of speed to make it the
best game of his life. Scotty Marr,
by virtue of his clever ball carrying,
was the most outstanding of the
Navy thirteen.

 

   
       
 

—-.-—

S

: Ais .
.2 Or keepin g

Keeping young folks happy at home is mostly a matter of having a
house in which they and their friends feel welcome. A radio, ora
phonograph and some records; a place to dance, a little food and
they’re happy. And don’t forget Coca-Cola
attraction for the young crowd. It says better than words, Come
on over... we're glad to see you. Be sure there’s “Coke” in your
icebox. In all the world there’s no more cordial invitation, nor one
more refreshing, than the three simple words . .. Have a “Coke,”

‘The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

 

ae

youth

    
  

   

mé

appy at ho

it’s always a big

|

\ { ] ab ted a sign

 
 
   

Kl

ened

over
i sl |

NY

\
‘4
!

eS 65 aa

   

ene
7 fave a
]

i!
Yt

  

,
/ :
|

(UG

It’s natural for popular names to
eee acquire friendly abbreviations.
fm That's why you hear Coca-Cols

called * e, 680

 

SSS SSS SSS es ithe sili lhe

 

 

too powerful for the collegians |
in every department, as they made good on a penalty kick and |
swept over the line twice in the second half. Both their serum |
‘and three-quarter line enjoyed an edge over the Tigers in ef
  

 

Soccer Squad Defeat
Navy For First Win

Last Friday afternoon the
Dalhousie Soccer team win their
first game of the year. Playing
against a strong Navy team, the
Dal boys played heads-up soccer and
held the edge throughout the game.
The Tigers kept the ball in the opponents’ half of the field most of the
time and Forwards Hosein, McLaren
and Stevenson capitalized on their
chances and each one drove home a
tally, making the Dal total 3 to the
Navy’s no score. Ralston Feanny
sparked the half line and kept feeding the ball to his forward wingmen.

saw

However, lack of practice and inexperience were noticeable. Lack of
interest and enthusiasm have stalemated the formation of a fast, wellconditioned squad. However, as long
as there are some supporters of the
old game at Dalhousie, campus promoters wiil back the game, win or
lose, as long as possible.

Line-up: Simon, Sodel, R. Feanny,
A. Feanny, W. Feanny, McLaren,
Stevenson, Hosein, Copp, LeBlanc.

If you growl all day it is only natural to feel dog-tired at night.

 

Special

CHRISTMAS
OFFER

Mounted Portraits
1 Dozen5x 7
$11.00

The
Portrait Studio

425 BARRINGTON ST.
Phone 3-8668

/ November 10, 1944

Eliminated From Intercollegiate Playdowns

Frosh White-Wash
Engineers 1'1-0

With the moans of the vanquished
Engineers ringing in their ears, the
Freshmen raced off the field last
Tuesday with an 11—0 victory. The
game was fairly even, but the superior condition and scoring punch
of the Frosh gave them a wellearned victory. Stars for the Frosh
were B. Burgess, G. Simon and T.
LeBlanc, with each having a try to
their credit, while Simon also made
a convert for another two points.
Doug Chapman showed up well in
the Engineers’ backfield with his
speedy runs.

It seemed to be the old fight between youth and experience, the Engineers seeming to have anything
but football experience.

Line-ups:

Frosh: Blakney, Burgess, Potechin,
G. Simon, A. Lightfoot, K. Fraser,
LeBlanc, Faulkner, Morgan, Rose,
Cooley.

Engineers: Chapman, Procter, McLeod, Cousins, Kinley, Stewart, Barnett, Yeadon, Starr, Oakley, Miller,
Saffron and Mike Waterfield.

Girls Drop 2-1
Decision To Edgehill

Last Saturday Dal’s groundhockey
team journeyed to Windsor to play
an exhibition match with Edgehill.
Despite the fact it was only the
third turn-out for the Dalsters, there
was a good display of team work,
which proved invaluable in the
closely-fought match with the practised Edgehill team.

During the first half, the Edgehill eleven kept the play in the Dal
goal circle, but were fended off by
the Dal defense. It was in this
pressing attack that the Edgehill
forward line netted the first goal.

At the beginning of the second
half Mary Robertson was hit by the
ball and replaced by Marg Morrison. Nevertheless, the forward line
warmed up and now, familiar with
the rough ground, took the play to
the other end of the field. Showing
fighting spirit, Joyce Hart carried
the ball through the strong Edgehill defense and, with an accurate
shot, tied the game.

The score was unchanged at the
end of the hour, and the play went
into overtime. Ten minutes later,
Edgehill managed to slip through
the Dal defense to score the winning
goal,

Team: M. Robertson, J. Hart, A.
Saunderson, J. Silver, N. Wilson, N.

| Silver, A. Matchett, M. Morrison, B.

Carter, P. Jones, L. Bissitt, and L.
Burns.

Democracy, of course, means Freedom — but freedom with responsi
PUA ESO PIL A BO

 

 

 
