       
      
        
      
    
     
      
       
         
    
      
     
       
         
      
   
    
   
       
     

     
   
    
         
         
       
     
   
        
     
     
    
        
       
      
      
       
     
    
       
   
      
     
        
        
    
          

   
       
      

 
    

i
l
ee)

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
    
     
  
  
  
 
 

 
  

The 6 aleve ‘were nominated in
the Arts & Science meeting Thursday noon in Room 3 of the Arts

Building. f
President—Art Hartling.
D.A.A.C. Repres.—Bill Mingo.
Secretary—Nancy Wilson

- Nominations for bye-elections to
be voted for on October 19:
Senior Repres.—
Jim McLaren, Alan Blakney.

Junior Repres.—
Carl Giffen, Carl Dexter.

 

 

CAMPUS
CLIPPINGS

by GRAHAM BATT Ms

 

| On reading the headline, Skunk
- Goes To University, in The Ubyssey,
. we could scarcely believe our eyes.
The facts of the case are, that Archibald, a skunk whose scent glands
had been removed, arrived at the
University of Texas. His owner

_ noted with distress that people were
rather hesitant about meeting Archi-\ bald. A nervous breakdown threatened because of the black looks and
belligerent remarks of some unfeeling students. But now his owner
reports that Archibald has been accepted in college circles and is re_ cuperating as well as could be ex
* *

The unlettered linotypist causes
editors many a headche.

Recently The Star printed the following blunder:
/ “Hurling a brick through the
~~ ~+Yonge Street furrier store last
_  -*‘night, two mash-and-gab thieves
Bee stole two mink coats.”

"The Varsity made the comment:
SOUNDS LIKE WOMEN, _ANYWAY.

s * + *

Med students are the most prolific
poets we’ve found, and here is one
of their most recent and best.

A schizophreniac we know
Has got no mother, _

But he doesn’t care—
He’s got each other!

*x* *

And then there was the colored
lass who had just been baptized in
_the river. As she came to the surface she cried: “Bless me Lawd, I’se
saved. Last night I was in the ahms
_ of the Debbil, but tonight I’m in de
- ahms of de Lawd.”
_ “Sistah,” came a baritone voice
from the shore, “How is you all fixed up for tomorra ebening ?”

if =
4 ee

:

'?
1

rr ~

| i
a |
=.

      
       
     
    
        
         
       
            
    
      
      
        
       
    
     

* * *

Freshies are often subjected to
terrible things. The other day, so
we are told, a young co-ed went to
one of those beginning-of-the-term
affairs and was asked to dance by a
_ great big thrid-year man. With all
_ the savoir-faire connected with third
year men he nese conversation with
line No. 1—
¥ . all my life?” — and then, proving
that a University education sharpens
with an addition of his own. “Be‘i cause,” he said, “you poor child, it
et must have been horrible.”
R ie The Varsity.

 

            
     

 

<a . a
| : oe
p .

some.

the wits, he followed it up swiftly | that

ttiction Trials End For
Frosh erga

 

CROSSING THE FINISH LINE in last week’s dramatic “Vaseline Race”
are Freshette delinquents, Ruth Manning and Marge Schwartz.
ported by the mike, “Prosecutor” Don Harris, is giving an awesome account of the proceedings to a sadistic assemblage of onlookers. Task of
reording this event for posterity was assigned to R. Tuck, newlyappointed staff cartoonist of The Gazette.

* a8

Hair is no longer being braided, or parted in the middle;
the fall breezes are no longer swirling around those frail masculine legs, and freshettes still look sweet, but no longer wholeThe initiation period of new students formally ended
with the Freshie-Soph dance and now our Frosh class need no
more cower before the no longer mighty Sophomore, need no
longer walk around the senior walk, for they too are now legitimate members of the student body.

On Friday evening, Oct. 6, at 9

p.m. the Frosh class for the last time
dutifully filed over to the gym, their
pigtails waving in the breeze, and
looking similar to a measle isolation
squad with a yellow quarantine sign
hanging before and aft.

Full of Spirits

The dance lacked nothing, except
food perhaps; it had chaperones in
the persons of Dr. and Mrs. Bell,
and Prof. and Mrs. Bowes, good
music by Don Lowe, and both spirit
and spirits by the students. To a
few of the Frosh, however, it resembled something like a Judgment
Day — yes it was the night when
their most serious crimes were to be
judged and penalized.

The first penalty granted during
the evening was that Janet Bell and
Irma Geddes were allowed to give
the upperclassmen shoe-shine while
Brent Gibson and John Meakin became quite professional in the manicuring art.

The entire proceedings were carried on in a strictly legal manner.
The court was made up of: Judge
Mingo, Prosecutor Harris, Court Announcer Farquhar and a “non-prejudiced” jury of Sophomores.

Wins by Nose

The first case tried was that of
Ruth Manning and Marge Schwartz.
They were found guilty practically
before the case was presented, and
sentenced to push vaseline jars
across the stage with their noses.
It was a great race—bets were placed 2 to 1 on Manning, the. crowd
stood with bated breath as the decision was given — Manning by a
nose.

The second case-tried was that of
Christy Irvine and Nancy Wilson.
The verdict was guilty and they

“Where have YOU been| were ordered to sing “How Dry I

Am” while eating a lemon and munching on dry crackers. We gather
they were too dry as not much
music came forth.
The next culprit was Nancy Colquhon who was charged with break(Continued on page 2)

AMERICA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 

    
 

 

HALIFAX, N. S. OCTOBER 138, 1944

COMMISSION
PREPARING
HEALTH REPORT

An enthusiastic meeting of the
Dalhousie group was held on Tuesday night in Room Three of the
Arts Building. There were about
forty people present.

The Chairman, Abe Sheffman,
gave an outline of the aims
and ideals of the Youth Commission and announced that there
would be a dance on Saturday,
the 2ist of October, and a regional
conference to be held on the 21st and
22nd of October.

The meeting decided to prepare a
report on Health Insurance for the
conference and four groups of five
students each were organized to
handle different aspects of the problem. These committees will report
on their findings at the next general
meeting of the Dal Youth Commission which will be on Wednesday,
October 18th, at 7.30 p.m. in the Arts
Building. Everybody is welcome to
attend as the organization is open to
every student on the campus.

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Sup
*x *

Eventually the Commission will
hold weekly meetings on the campus
in conjunction with the Dalhousie
Round Table. There will be refreshments every evening, movies when
obtainable, and dances for members.
See this issue for description of Dalhousie Round Table. Watch for
posters.

Dal Organizing Round

Table Discussion Group

The D. R. T. will open on the
campus on Thursday, Oct. 26. This
is a new student organization and
will give all students an opportunity to discuss and express their
thoughts on current Canadian problems.

The general area of topics to be
discussed in Round Table in the 20
weeks hefore and after Xmas will
centre around our immediate Canadian problems. ‘The varying economic, religious and diverse racial
groups of Canada will be discussed.
Canada’s place in the world and its
relationship with other countries, in
the light of our growing importance
will be thought through. Finally the
place of the citizen in the democratic
country, both at the local and national levels, will be discussed. We
believe that these subjects are vital
to Canadian democracy and that
without intelligent discussion of
them by all citizens we cannot ar
IN
SYMPATHY

The University wishes to ex
tend sympathy to the family of
the late Otto Johnson, Engineering student who passed away
early in the summer. He was an
excellent student during his two
years at Dalhousie, popular among
the Engineers, at Pine Hill and
throughout the entire student
body.

 

 

To Moot Debates
Between Faculties

Interfaculty debating contests will
be the keynote of this year’s Sodales
program, it was announced by president Bob McCleave, following his

& ‘ o : ~<
ve ae 7 A. £9 - eens 7 ae
or ‘ 4 Pg 7 ~ : a, 7 - mt mad ~— Ps
i) 2 i a in if; . Pat. * al a Eo. i ~~ v 7 - =~
7 4 qo E me ‘3 ba a, —
. a iv 5 i . i ‘jae ‘
. “Ao if < a— pt ee ) a . tee eh rm’ 4 ~ ' a é :
1 tinh ol 7 oe ar ee mg i vy Mca or ae ot Cite ~ Y ee '
, , ete te ee ee rr pin eee 3 :
ia = i . wie. ¥ Ve a i é
Me a abe Pee Ne he ’ we a: ‘
at 22 ’ i? a “ = - . »
eae ‘ we ’ ‘ 4
* r “ : ‘ '
A 5 at . i = % r ’
‘ a | bs ‘ eg
a ‘i Z 4 S i : ;
: . é
tos = s

STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

  
 
   
  
    
   
   
  
  

Elections, War Loan, Dance
Discussed at Council Meet

term was held at the Murray Homestead on Thursday evening,
October 5, 1944.
first topic under discussion was the immediate need for byelections, as there are two vacancies from Arts & Science and
one from Law.
Connie Archibald to attend to these elections, the date set for
October 19.

Dal Represented at

Mount Allison, Acadia, U.N.B., and
Dalhousie met on the Thanksgiving
weekend
Conference at Acadia University, to
discuss the decision of the National

plications for the local units,

.
a F s *
” : * ‘
* aru ~ f 7? 4
alert itis A senha < la a a ln

rive at sane or adequate conclusions.
Canada needs your thoughts and
opinions, and you can give them to
Canada through the Dalhousie
Round Table. Yes, you can help
Canada by thinking . . . and sharing
your thoughts with those of other
students at the Forum.

Special Speakers

At most of our meetings we shall
have a speaker, expert on the evening’s topic of discussion, and,
whenever needed, moving pictures
will be available. Refreshments are
served at every meeting. Meetings
will be entertaining, interesting and
instructive. The Round Table will
eonduct several dances throughout
the year for members.

Above all else, Canada needs
thinking Canadians, and we at Dalhousie can help satisfy that need
through the medium of the Dalhousie
Round Table. We want all thinking
men and women of Dal at our first

 

election at a meeting held Tuesday
noon, in Room Three. The meeting
was one of the most largely attended
in recent years.

Others elected included: Honorary
President—Dr. A. K. Griffin; Vicepresident, Fred Thompson; Secretary-Treasurer, Miss Lois Rattee.
Spirited discussion was a part of the
elections.

The president stated he hoped to
have teams from the four Arts and
Seience years competing in one section, and teams from Law, Engineering, Dentistry and Medicine in the
ether section. Finalists in both sections would meet to declare an interfaculty champion. Fuller plans will
be made later.

meeting. Watch Gazette and bulletin boards for announcements.
further information .get in touch
with Abe Sheffman.

 

For

  
 

Student

Council

 

Dance
October 20

   
    
    
 
   
    
        
     
      
      
   
      
        

 

   

 

  

* * *

$2,000 Pledged to Loan Campaign

The first meeting of the Dalhousie Student Council for this

x

President Art Titus was in the chair and the

A committee was formed of Ted King and

 

The new Chairman of the Gym
|Committee is to be Alec Farquhar,
replacing Jim Bell.

Joyee Nicholsen and Alf Pike will
be our new War Services Committee,
whose duty it will be to co-ordinate
all war services on the campus.

A regional conference of the Youth
Commission is to be held on Oct. 21,
at which a brief must be presented
from Dalhousie. Dal students are
asked to co-operate with this attempt to learn what the youth of
Canada is thinking.

To Meet With King’s

Of course the eternal King’s question was aired, but this time perhaps something is going to be done
about it. It was moved and seconded
that the executive of the Student
Council meet with King’s Student
Council to consider desirable adjustments to existing agreement between
these bodies in light of existing conditions, and refer these to théir individual councils.

S. C. M. Conference

Representatives of the S.C.M.’s of

in a Maritime Planning

Council of the S.C.M. and their im
The National Council decision that
gave direction to the conference was
that concerning policy. We reaffirm
our Aim and Basis; “The Student
Christian Movement is a fellowship
of students based on the conviction
that in Jesus Christ are found the
supreme revelation of God and the
means to a full realization of life.

Our study policy is an exact and
meticulous regard for all the evidence available to us—an approach
objective and scientific in spirit, dis
 

       
     
    
   
   
        

passionate yet sincere in outlook.| A committee of Bob White, ConThe standards of our intellectua]|mie Archibald and Al Farquhar will
quest can be no lower than the|attend to the arrangements for the
highest‘ ones we know. The basic| Student Council dance to be held on

October 20, and also for any tea
dances to be held through the yeas.
To Promote Spirit
An open discussion followed on
what should be done to foster more
Dal spirit. Murray Rankin assured
the Council of the full co-operation
of the alumnae in reviving the old
songs and cheers. The discussion
closed with a tentative committee being formed to meet with the alumnae

to further college spirit at Dal.

Don Harris was elected Business
Manager of the Glee Club.

The Student Council of Dalhousie
University has voted that a sum of
two thousand dollars be invested in
the forthcoming War Loan Drive.
With further discussion on the
campus war effort, concerning Blood
Donor Clinic, etc., the meeting adjourned. .

material of our study is the life and
teachings of Jesus; for such study
we must use the best material at our
disposal, and relate this study, like
all others, to every aspect of our
life.

Criticizes Government

The conference disapproved of the
action of the Government in disenfranchising Japanese Canadians, and
also of the action of the General
Council of the United Church of
Canada in upholding the Government’s decision.

The main study groups of the Dalhousie S.C.M. are those on “The
Records of the Life of Jesus,” led
by Dr. Bronson and Dr. Archibald.
There will also be groups on the
function of the university, and “Understanding Ourselves” (a study of
personal psychology).

Miss Harriet Christie, associate
general secretary of the S.C.M. of
Canada, will be visiting the Dalhousie campus next week and will

DIP

Are College Students Socialistic?

60% think that college students in general are definitely socialistic;
10% think that students are pink generally but not a bright red. The
other 20% were quite sure that students are not socialistic. The majority opinion was that students tend more to socialism than most other
groups of young people. —

How Would You Feel If Roosevelt Got A Fourth Term

As President?

All students but one were strongly for Roosevelt. Expressions of
opinion ranged from “good,” “pleased,” “satisfied” to “delighted,”
“elated” and “wonderful.” The one dissenting opinion is unpublishable.

What Type of Music Would You Like At Dal Dances?

All queried were unanimous on this question except two freshmen
who are self-styled hep-cats and jive-bombers. 90% wanted more. slow
numbers and less fast numbers. What the students want are the “slow,
dreamy, sweet and sentimental” numbers; more waltzes and .rhumbas.
Several students thought that “Dalhousie Dream Girl” should be played
more often so take note, all ye dance organizers, and instruct your orchestras accordingly.

 

speak at a general meeting of students in the Y.M.C.A. on Wednesday
night. Anyone interested in finding
out about the S.C.M. is invited,

 

 

 

DALHOUSIE INSTITUTE OF
PUBLIC OPINION

 

 

 
  
 
  

 
   

Wali in Chic!
JIM McLAREN (4-2236)
Features Literary
BOB McCLEAVE JOHN HIBBITTS
Sports Photography

 
 
  

0ODMAN ALEX FARQUHAR ERROL MacDONALD
ae BILL MINGO

     
  
  
     
    
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
    
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
     
  
   
     
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

Cartoons
R. TUCK
rial
agr’s ton LOU COLLINS
JACK SIDEL AL LOMAS
aoe |. GRAHAM BATT ie
ee ay °.3 ‘Business Man

oS _FRED MARTIN ($5086)

| the oe ediioids course of the eileutie: year, do we
to ask ourselves . . . “What does a ‘university educaJy mean?” ...and.
al opportunities ?”
ful consideration.
iswer, we will define “university” as that all-important
1 our life story, when mind is strengthened and outlook
ea. to meet the contingencies of a realistic world. It is
‘uding chapter to youth — that stimulating transition
ft rom which we emerge (or should do) as fully responsioo. of society. By logical deduction, then, it is apt t hat what we do at university can “make or break” our

These vital questions demand the

ie acoay pert ourselves to our anes pil branches of
y , realizing that as we acquire some modicum of intellectual
ming, we are being reinforced for our embarkation on the

ue” es ck its contribution to educational
- is often underestimated. Leadership, organizational
1 self-confidence are essential qualities which can be
shhrough participation in the athletic and social life of the
! For, to be fully prepared to cope with the. endless

which extends far beyond strict academic pursuits.

3y a sensible intermingling of the ‘‘academic’, “athletic”
“social”. opportunities of a university, we will have written
ez sia seadahi to the Book of Life.

The Editor's MAILBOX

E ERE’S THE YEAR BOOK?”
ASKS SHIRREFF HALLER

1 pa * common question about the campus these days is “Where’s
_ | our 1944 Year Book?” It is on the lips of every student who paid
an ae s book last sprirng and was promised he would receive it

ms regrettable that we could not have our Year Books at the
, of the summer for one never tires of reading and re-reading
a a eek throughout the holidays—thumbing through the pages—
g back memories of the past year at Dal. Now we have

| biogre Eien all the articles on the different societies and sports
al written, and with the help of fifteen or twenty volunteers, that
the advertisements are solicited. All of this to be completed bere the end of February—a lot of hard work but not interfering
ith the final exams. Then all the material could be edited before
PS Munro Day and the account of the Munro Day activities (awards,
ete.) should be the last article submitted.

ae Thus, following this plan, the material would reach the printae mid-March and we might then be (and pray) that it be

E Arnain ness manager, ete., so let’s have a hearty response!
| —CONNIE ARCHIBALD.

- MOVIE- OF -THE-WEEK

es i the current trend of
als, here’ Ss a re-release of
re Selznick’s opulent
SONER OF ZENDA”. Those
saw the movie years ago will
bly want to see it again and
that missed it should see it
‘ragga Colman heads the
: eee includes Made
escapist appeal, and, second, the

current interest in Selznick and
his eight-star film of the home
front, .“SINCE YOU WENT
AWAY.” This trend of revivals
certainly has its points. One gets
a little tired of war pictures
whose only claim, to distinction is
_ their variation on a too-familiar_
Saeme. |

_ Td like to see Warner’s “CALL
TT A DAY”, Metro’s “THE
WOMEN” revived. Anyway, it’s
refreshing to see a screen classic. |
For that reason you _ shouldn’t
s | miss “PRISONER OF ZENDA”
r - | —United Artists’ film.

- ‘The Setter is
k re the sets magnifi- |

ie p photography superb,
th se Ye of Supst~
e

 

. “Am I making the most of my |

_|liberation on the. part of the jury
. | both were found guilty and Lew was

} (18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

| SIGNS
Night «seemed breathless,
But a faint leaf stirred,
As though a breeze
. Gave promise of the dawn;
And yet, no flesh tints
Paled the darkened sky,
The quiet night slept on
\ Unmindful of a shaking leaf,
A small bird’s drowsy trill,
A whisper
In the tangled grass,
Of light, beyond the hill. He

TEA WITH MRS. COPLEY

‘(Continued from last week)

E. B.

“Oh I think so. I think these robot bombs are only a last desperate
effort to break our morale.” Mrs. Bromford sighed, and allowed her
glance to fall reflectively on a brown mantle piece where some delicate
porcelain figures had been carefully arrayed. There was the boy in the
Lord Fauntleroy suit waving a gaily plumed hat, and the lady at the
spinet, with the wistful face and flower sprigged skirt. Mrs. Bromford
even fancied she heard the soft tinkling notes of the spinet playing some
half-forgotten melody. Hastily she turned her glance on a bright bowl
of flowers, placed on a table near the fireplace.

“My, what lovely flowers,” she exclaimed.
your garden, Elizabeth?”

“No, my daughter-in-law brought them to me.
move in with me. We have been alone since...

“Yes I know,” interrupted Mrsr Bromford.
jing to stay with you, is an excellent idea.
loss better, if you are both together.”

Elizabeth had paled and quickly diverted the conversation to some
other topic, but inevitably, brought it back to her lost son, and was soon
showing Mrs. Bromford some snaps that had been taken of Keith before
he went away, and some pieces from a fallen Messerschmitt that had
come with his last letter.—K. E. B.

“You know,” said Mrs. Bromford, examining the pieces from the
Messerschmitt, “I had a very strange dream last night. I was thinking
about you, and when I fell asleep, I dreampt I saw your son, wounded,
but safe in Allied hands. I had a queer feeling about this dream, as
though it wasn’t a dream somehow. I thought it would be a good thing
to tell you about it. If I were you I wouldn’t give up hope yet.”

Elizabeth sat quietly and gazed desperately into the fire.

“I know,” soothed Mrs. Bromford. “I think I can understand how
you feel. But you mustn’t give up hope yet, not when there’s still a
chance that your son might be alive.”

Gradually, she saw the look of pain leave Elizabeth’s face, and something like a ray of hope taking its place. In a short while she was pouring tea into fragile china cups, and they were again conversing about
other things—about people they knew, about the report that the blackout was soon to be lifted, and about how close the day of victory seemed,
with the Allies marching into France. In the midst of their conversation,
came a shrill, harsh ringing of the doorbell,.and Elizabeth hurried quickly to answer it, leaving Mrs. Bromford: to sip at her tea before the fire.
The elderly woman thought that she heard a youthful voice in the hall,
then the sound of a door closing and rapid feet beating a hasty retreat
down the steps outside. Her heart beat swiftly—agonizingly, as she
heard the rustling of paper followed by a brief silence. Suddenly, there
was a gasp and Mrs. Bromford rose from her chair. Then she was Elizabeth walking towards her, tears brimming in her eyes,

(To be concluded next w eek)

Initiation Trials End
Continued from page one

“Did they come from

She is planning to
since...

“I think that her comYou will be able to bear your

 

Juliet Kaplan. Found guilty on all
charges, they were sentenced to perform a bit of “hot jittin’? which they
carried off with gusto. Following
the romantic dance Romeo was moved to song in his own
fashion:

I’m the sheik of Dalhousie
Freshettes belong to me
And when McKeen’s asleep
Into the Hall I’ll creep,
And the light from her eyes above
Will light our alcove of love

Come rule the campus with me.
I’m the sheik of Dalhousie.

ing each and every law. She was
sentenced to demonstrate her “alcove
technique” on an unsuspecting but
very co-operative freshman, Don
Isnor. Her performance showed
great talent and probably much
heartfelt work in rehearsal.

Shorty Faulkner was accused of
being a Freshman, and although he
pleaded guilty his word was apparently not reliable and the jury reversed his opinion,

Sinatra

Egg Shampoo
Next case was that of Lew Bell
and Mary Robertson. After due de
Jerry Naugler’s
Orchestra

sentenced to a shampoo a la egg
administered by Ma Honestly
Lew, you look kinda A under an
egg.

Art Webber and Lauretta Dickenson rendered a little song “Pistol
Packin’ Mama’ ’to make up for their
misdemeanors.

The final case of the court was
that of Romeo Cunningham and

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL
Photographers to Dalhousie University

See Our Pictorial Work for Gifts :
Special Rates to Students 24 Hour Finishing Service

PHONE 36992

*

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

 

  
       

  

   

‘ ‘ j
* ae ‘
Se op re pS a ag = = = — 7 = _ = = ————

x

 

 

 

  
 
 
  
  

 
 

ALWAYS PURE

 
  
    
  
       
  
    
    
      
   
    

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

Fader’s Drug Stores} ~
135 HOLLIS STREET

29 COBURG ROAD
®

   
 

:

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

~:~

 

THE
‘Rosedale Nurseries |
oe parrmours || 4 Word of Welcome 2
381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 Spring Garden Rd. H-2200
Birks extend to new- ds
comers and returning 5
students a cordial wel- a |
come to bring their ,
After Any Show gift problems to Birks:
or... Come and visit — bi
even if you have no “"t
Before Any Meal problem.
Think of ... Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED A
a.
The Registered Jeweller
G La t American Gem Society
reen ntern Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.
i
DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the
73 COLLEGE STREET
4
Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students, ,

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING
will be valuable aid in future years

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

>

Halhousie University qj
Halifax, Nova Scotia a

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada ¥
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships J
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standin , leadi
of M.A., M.Se. . te ee

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
« courses.

The Professional Faculties. ;
ine
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $1
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a vad. — eee
Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.
    
 
  

7 ee
TF PS
hs

   
 
  

         
  
  

Se a) ‘ eh a he a. pres « “ae # _ i osr)* 7
, = ke aS eo a ee i Re sas ote p ad a - a ; EV a eet! : ees em é ae By UL ey SU) oe
.|6«hChV FA - A® Pe re “ag Ay ee eee s 7 ee eee . . vem PP ge an ee Vid ont aed i, 7
ee hey i _ fi zx FF BT A xe 2 t a io hia, ES rd yg Ee et Te ; [1 A , ete re a mY. ‘ , A age tn e << Ta
(a ; , ' — Pil ‘a Jom Me Seok a a” f ei)” * * : ia a 7 e ny
‘ oe en Se sae ae > ORT 5 a ‘ 7 “7”
> = = , ‘pe? a a ee _ =< — 2 ~ eo = are he . wv pe i ais ~ . ~ : |
al eee ' dhe F F ! ae 1 , i
: & r : to , : y i
: = 3 a ea h : re : J ‘ ‘ ) =
cs | i E Ba . a. a = 3&8 ;
4 , ; : ‘
, “1

Oh we all have heard of Bashan’s bull
And the noise from the beast which ensues,
And the growls and howls of the animals
Are the pride of American U’s.

 

“The only distinction between the (alleged) human and

  

   
        
     
   
       
         
       
      
  
 
 
  
  

 

     

   

____tanimal kingdoms is social in character—it is sophistication, But the famous tiger of Dathousie
____- Returning Engineers last week|sir,’’ according to the most unusual interview I have ever had in Can only warble ‘‘U-pi-dee’’.
“r gazed mournfull; about the Draft- my life. He was a retired professor whose views. Meee SO-an-|———--- _—______—___ —Author taken for granted.
___ ing Room, saw a profusion of plac-| orthodox as to warrant his expulsion from even a liberal uni
Last week the Dalhousie Student
Council took a step in the completion of a policy which has been dear
to the hearts of many critical perusers of the campus scene. For
years it has been their heart-felt
—. |thought that college spirit definitemer, bursting with energy and will-|1, goes not rate high enough at the
ing to print all that goes on behind University.

  

ae ards and bow-ties, but not one soli_ tary apron. It is reported that
one lady Sophmore had applied for
Drawing 1 but had been dissuaded
_by the Registrar on the ground
that she would find the sight of
eighty hanging tongues rather
appalling. !

  

versity. e
When I saw him he was sitting forlornly in a two-room ARTS N SCIENCE
apartment in one of the gloomy and disgraceful tenements in a N OTE S » » »
large Canadian city. -His money had gone, swallowed up in his

ambitious researches, but his soul shone above the squalor of his} wel, here we are back in the

surroundings and his spirit was undimmed. _ | groove after a long and restful sumcovering from the hides of their

erstwhile allies. Which is very sad”,

      
  
  
  
   
     

= YOU DOWN (

  
 

His forlornless was caused by a
sad incident that befell a few min
_ Being a Truro lassie, she should {fae ule pme-said, ‘ha sdenes, We have wun into only area = Ss
; ee ell -akcnaninbed rae Saslelndernd* utes before my arrival as an inquir-|  y;, might not have been so bad if a Sey icietc aud her tx ae The Council’s proposals, in simple ee
anti f ~ fing reporter. His landlord, put out|;, }4q stopped there. For instance OnE "SHE aETICL, form, are to provide a leadership SL

antics from the annual Survey : *|much has happened behind the|+¢,. the usual manifestations of col- | o

of temper by some shortcomings as
|to rent (a mere month or so) had
swept into the room and taken a
stuffed ape, which he hoped to sell
to an antique shop.

The old man sat between a stuff
one woolly mammoth could provide
enough clothing for dozens of our
people. Besides they would have

Camp, which, despite competition
from Debert, went over well this
year. “Newfie” Clark found the St.
Mary’s boys and their Annapolis
Valley Coke much to his liking.
Poor Steve suffered from short_ sightedness one night and still has
bags under his eyes to show for the
ones he previously had in front.
_. And it is said there were attractive
_ pins other than the bowling variety
stationed in the Truro alleys.
“Choppie” is advocating birth control after a hectic evening spent
_ celebrating the arrival of a nephew;
he has one consolation—he can
give Watters quite a run for the
Horizontal Club Presidency, which
matter comes up for discussion under the table at the next Society
meeting.
Drafting Reom Snapshots. “Kipper” racing madly from Prof.
Bowes office to drawing board to
waste basket, disposing of spilled
‘ ink and the Department’s good
paper, while muttering, “Today is

_ my evil hour.”—Philosopher Peter
tie P, challenging one of the Farmer’s
© remarks with, “It’s logical, but not
4 chaste”’—Prof. Copp standing at the
entrance to the inner Drafting
Room with burning ears and a

scenes up to date, but we feel cer-| lege spirit. Cheerleaders are to be
tain that a few co-operative people |taueht how to lead a bleacher-full

will perform a scandal or two foF| o¢ Pioerphiles Ades. einen uk
been so hot and bothered chasing the ; gerp , and the students as
: & our next column. How about it Arts|. whole will be given opportunity

beast they would have been warm ; :
y *, }and Science? to learn the old Dalhousie songs,

en! anyway. But clothing begat with it A ‘n Phi RI tn has, found ?
ed hippo head and a grinning bass : : | certain Phi ikho pin has to dear to the heart of the Alumni and | ;
pp g & ’)many things, something like a mem-|, jow home with our last year | nae.

incronguities which didn’t look un- , E : c :
ber of that grand race forever in president, Jean M. Congratulations} Not resurrecting the past per-| |

natural after a short glance at the :
r ds through the Old Testa-|,. var
room. Only its size prevented the Bae coe e Old Testa-| Bill, you may be assured that it is] rormances only, it is hoped to have

Jinclusion of a few of the lesser dino-|  ,, being well looked after. present-day students at Dalhousie |
saurs. There were stuffed animals It. produced a less hardy people, Is Jean Nical really as interested | write new cheers and songs. There
of all varieties around the room. |* peaple accustomed ha winning itS/in the Youth Commission as she|js considerable talent in this Unilife through guile and through tres-| claims, or is it the chairman who| versity which could do such, it is |

He losked into the backyard of the|P*°""s. 0" the «rights of fellow |is..the leading attraction? felt, and the Council is planning to |
tenement. About four stories down |? ™ m2! It was the insincerity of | Boys, have you heard about a cer-| bring such talent into the open.
a grimy pair of youngsters were man that made him what he is to- tain freshette who does her enter- Students are requested to give their
playing in a heap of refuse, and day. -He should have died and, like SPINE ADB PRE of sleek black a ideas or contributions to Alex Farshouting some obscenities into the. Darwin has aptly said, shown that] lounging pyjamas? if you haven't, | quhar, head of the Committee of the iB
air, “How very different from the ony the fittest survive. we suggest you look into the matter. | Council which is in charge of such | } ,
dignity of the creatures of the But we had one trouble. a A success at last—Yes, apparently | Dalhousiana, or send it to the Gazwoods” the old chap mouthed. you ever heard of the human mind? Miriam has found the glories of ette marked “Committee on Cheers,
We confessed our ignorance. He} Pepsodent and irium. Is a diamond | Songs.”

“IT do not know how this distinc- | gescribed it, and a new field of |yeally in the offing?
tion between animals and humani- )

. thought was at once thrown at us. So Alf Cunningham is adopting | oe
mals has come about”, he said. “I/1t was this mind, he alleged, that |The Sheik of Dalhousie” as his ORPHEUS |
look through early history and I se€| made the whole difference. Appar- | theme song. What’s the matter, erie lapee|. dar
the Egyptians on speaking terms ently it was something that even an| Alfie, can’t you make up your mind? “THREE LITTLE SISTERS”
with their oxen, venerating these animal couldn’t fathom. “The pig Is Niekd going out for three stripes and
faithful creatures even above their | with trusting eye and shaking heart | now, instead of gold braid? “OH SUSANNA”
fellow humans; I see the ancient | jet itself be slaughtered, sir; the dog] [f the freshmen don’t ask you out || ———————__——

Greeks immersed in a pseudo-ani-| was kicked and cuffed around like an MON. - TUES. - WED.
8 l try th hestra,
malistic mythology that gave ample | ovyer-married man”. eevee See Tar “UKRAINE IN FLAMES”

praises to the horse. Did the (Russian Documentary)

@ For smoother,
faster work from
' points that never
break, try these
three college
favorites:

MIRADO

WRITING PENCIL

ERITHIN

COLORED PENCIL

TURQUOISE

DRAWING PENCIL

EEN EE PE =
oe

meee SEALED” MIRA DO 174

 

 

¥ Sa

 

 

 

FROM YOUR
favortte

CHOOL SUPPLY DEALER

 

or at least that is Elsie C. slogan.
Tears began to fall. How is that little drummer boy,

 

_shocked .expression Hebrews construct a golden man; NE Seesncenk the dactined dibcieid: Litiate? TRIGGER TRAIL A Hindu ag held his arms above
snl Le ._ |no, they made a golden bull? Be Wa Bee a Sad and his head for twenty years.—A local
Only a hot summer — explain “Today, do we make our coins of : Latest Paramount News college record, perhaps?

lover in the sense of being patroniz-|several times eaten pate de foie

a Clear! h Pcl at, ing to an inferior creature; I mean|gras. He didn’t mind tackling the

o Mit early a change tor the! as a decent individual who recognizes |odd fish too, but claimed they were
ae that animals have certain rights |an anachronism anyway, and as soon. :

Then ‘civilization Renpcoed: How! commensurate with the purest of|as the polar bears could sport OXF ORD GARRICK

this happened he couldn’t quite say;

the recent goings-on among our
faculty heads. One lecture centered
around a rivet-driving bulldozer;
another was entitled “How to Preserve a Couple with Both Hands on

golden bulls? No, we make them

 

the Wheel.” See what Engineering bg iahe aniseine’ gap in: his theory democratic ideals. I would as hef around in the ocean without the fear TODAY - SATURDAY
~ ean do for you? ; elect an ass for a political appoint-.'of being run through by a sword- mie ION. - TUE
: that his researches in old age are ’ , “BROADWAY RHYTHM” SAT. - MON. - TUES.
Someena‘out “his foot in it last ; ; ment as I would a man. fish, it would be better all around. = : |
P trying to bridge. No longer, he) uy profess a true comradeship| And so I left him, musing pro- in Technicolor ~ HENRY ALDRICH,

& Thursday when he failed to mention
.? the Engineers in his list of the high_ ly reputed faculties at Dalhousie.

sighed, did man sleep with the pigs
and the horses and the dogs; instead
he left the stable and descended to

with all the creeping things onj|jfoundly amongst his treasurers, I “ALDRICH’S LITTLE SECRET”

earth, and once mankind has thrown |readed the door and was about to

 

MON. - TUES. - WED.

 

Their good breeding prevented the|;ihe level of a bed. on a Eo ae, make my ee in time for the KAY KYSER, in | TUES. - WED. - THURS.
_ boys from walking out in the midst} «jf jt wasn’t for the fact that 7? " a a ain 1ts golden age. ee present = ae SWING FEVER” | apa: ver dean! Ree
f it, but the Publicity Committee . : ’ = nen asked if he represented or Mind you don’t kick over that and | 4 y
0 ; humanimals needed clothing in win dhe for. vewstart int nk St e F
_ plans a campaign to make the cam-|tertime, I don’t think it all would getarian interests, he |mousetrap . ‘BLACK PARACHUTE” “BABY-FACE MORGAN”

 

said that he prescribed mush and My faith in human nature was regrains for the true diet, but had |stored.

pus aware of their presence. Such
glaring omissions must not occur
_ again.
The shovel rests.

have happened. But humans needed
clothing, and in this way they were
set apart from the beasts. Worse
than that, they had to procure their

 

*k +

THURS. - FRI. - SAT.

HELD OVER! CARY GRANT
ABOTT et

“Once Upon a Time”
and het ae

COSTELLO MON, - TUES. - WED.

Ronald Coleman
in Madeline Carroll

“IN SOCIETY”
“‘The Prisoner of
* Zenda”

(Dalhousie Organ of Puerile Enigmas)

 

Question: Do you prefer Harry James or Frank Sinatra?
‘This. it was soon proved, was a d—— foolish query. On examination
it was found that Harry James and Frank Sinatra are mentioned in the
same ecstatic breath. One charming doe-eyed freshette, who shall forever
remain anonymous, uttered.a gurgle of reminiscent joy and went on record
(affidavits are on file at the Gazette office) as saying that she doesn’t go
to movies any more (not since “The Shining Future”) because they don’t
_ bill Frank Sinatra and Harry James in the same picture.
When asker what she wanted for a half-dollar, she blusHed and whinnied away. Frustrated, we sought refuge in Roy’s, sinking our miniscule
sorrows in coke. .
. ot ae
 Q.: What type of reading do you enjoy in your irate oe | CE
The endless possibilities to this question had us reeling with delight, a : = Sey
- and happily we set out to find interesting and informative answers. Soon, Quality and style to suit the high
_ we struck a snag, however. The great majority remarked sarcastically, requirements of the students of
“What leisure hours?” One freshman, encountered after a History session, 7 ‘ ,
revealed that instead of reading the required Chapter Fifteen of Gibbon’s Dalhousie will be found at the

“Decline and Fall” he was “just thrilled” with the rest of the work and ead Bierions in-tie Hast | : :
8 . The Nova Scotia Technical College

‘was plowing through the two volumes clauge by clause.

_ Engineers, we learned, after drafting hours, curl up happily with a

Mister Glencannon or the newest issue of the Saturday Evening Post. : * Offers Engineering Courses in
‘High in their ivory tower in the Library, we ran to earth several post- a . : 8

grads doing some fascinating research on the table etiquette of our Eliza- Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining
bethan forbears. Flushed from the exertion of their quest, their answers
were disturbing. Their private reading tastes ranged from Untranslated
___—- Homer, straightythrough the Bible, down to “True Confessions”.

ba k But the pay-off is this: Riding to class one morning, I sat next to a 52 SACKVILLE STREET, HALIFAX
a it filly who was having quiet hysterics over a pulp magazine. The title of Next Door to Garrick Theatre Write or call for Calendar or advice to
= the story she was reading, I chanced to see, was “The Nude Corpse on the F. H. SEXTON. President.

‘\ __ Burned Mattress”

~ooe at

 

 

ia

 

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students

MARITIME FURRIERS LIMITED To Students with Engineering Diplomas.

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.

 

»

 

LO ——

 

ee ee

7

 
_ SIDELINES

by FARQUHAR and MINGO

O “Well, what is going to happen
tomorrow? Will “Burnie’s boys”,
youthful, inexperienced, but literally
B overflowing with the enthusiasm and
resolve to win--or else, come through
with the victory, or will it go to the
St. Mary’s squad, older and heavier,
but equally as inexperienced?
; Either way it promises to be a
great, if not the greatest, exhibition
of sheer fighting spirit this campus
Die has seen in several seasons. Al| though they have seldom met on the
field, due perhaps to the strange cirrn cumstance that each has always ac eentuated different sports, both Dal
and St. Mary’s have long eyed each
fc other with contempt whenever the
7 = subject of city intercollegiate honours has been discussed.
* * *
_ For many the game will be merely
the continuation of the bitter rivalry
waged in the past between the local
high schools. Here the boys are
fies! talking of nothing but by how large
e a seore they will triumph tomorrow,
and, we’re told, the Windsor Street
men have similar dreams of humbling us. Yes, sir, events are certainoly shaping up for a real, genuine
“orudge match”.
x
Who do we think will win? Ah,
shucks, girls, and fellows, we don’t
want to appear over-confident, but,
strictly between you and us, our
backfield is the fastest in the busrie iness, particularly Smith, Farquhar
and Giffin. Bob MacDonald, too, al= though in the scrum, has been giying authentic imitations of a regular
ball of fire in the practices and
should be worth a lot of careful observation.

Little Bruce Burgess and Bob
Wade have developed into tackling
- wizards, surprising all, themselves
included, and it should be a real
spectacle to see them throw the big
fellows around. Not that the Irish
are without their good men; in fact
we suggest you watch Veniot, flying
tackle; Sherman, fullback; Rounsfall
: and Fletcher.
oe e %
O.K., gang, you know what the
set up is now; your job is to be there
e and cheer. You all remember your
__ yells and have plenty of power in
i your vocal chords. Use it. Make all
the noise you can, Anyone able to
_ utter an intelligible sound on Sun_ day ought to be ashamed to admit
,  -—s— he: (or she—women can make a rac' ‘ket, you know) is a Dal student.
Bis. * * &
For the first time in several years
_ Dalhousie is forming a soccer team.
With a nucleus of a few former
West Indian players and augmented
by several other enthusiasts, the
team is shaping into astrong eleven.
Since there is no league in the city
fall - now, only exhibition games will be
ery played. Some of the lads turning
at out are: the Feanny boys, Jim MeLaren, Gordie Simon, Doug Clark
* and others, —

 

* + &

ve What you have all been waiting
_,for! The Acadia trip: November 4.
Yes, plans have been made that the
_ Tigers journey to Wolfville on Nov.
‘ Ath to grind the edge off the Axemen. By.the time that revered date
_-—  folls around the Bengals will have
several games under their belt and
will be in top shape to give the agelong rivals the works!

Let's have plenty of spirits for

   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

have a strong team to oppose us,
_ but we figure that we have a stronger one. It ought to be quite a struggle, so make plans now to be there.

    

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE

WELL, SEE WALLA

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS

ae SIGHT SPECIALISTS

an A. . A. Building Halifax
i Phone 3-6881

      
       
       
     

 

A

—_—a Whe

the trip. Acadia claims that they |

D. G. A. C.
Organize Activities

Last Wednesday evening found the
gym a hive of activity as the feminine athletes of the campus assembled to formulate plans for an active
winter. Ann Saunderson, president

of the D.G.A.C., outlined the activi
ties of the association, emphasizing
particularly her desire to have every
D.G.A.C. night as successful as the
past two have been. These Tuesday evenings are devoted to general
sport including basketball, badminton, ping pong, archery, and even
golf instruction,

It was also decided to divide the
members into two groups, the
“Golds” and the “Blacks” for the
purpose of competitive sport. Each
group will be given points .in acknowledgement of its members’ accomplishments on all athletic fields
as well as for inter-group competition These groups have been drawn
up as follows: Golds: V. Phillips, N.
Sherman, J. Hart, J. Robertson, L.
Bisset, M. Macdonald, E. Hawkins;
J. MacKenzie, T. Reid, Z. Linkletter,
J. Sheppard, L. Jodrey, H. Schieds,
J. Noftle, C. Irvin, N. Colquhoun, E,
Mahon, P. Allsop, B. Carter and big
Morrison.

Blacks: K. Cox, C. Archibald, A.
Saunderson, J. Silver, M. MacPherson, J. Gillis, M. E. MacKay, T. MacLean, M. Hershman, J. MacKinley,
M. Robin, N. Wilson, E. Cruickshank,
J. Kaplan, Y. Cluge, M. Azar, M.
Fry, W. Sheppard, F. Hilliar, and J.
Crosby.

Virginia Phillips, the badminton
mahager, was unperturbed by the
threatened scarcity of birds and
promised an active year. Ping Pong
seems to be slated for a revival
under the management of Connie
Archibald. A table will be set up on
the stage in the gym and there is
also to be one at Shirreff’s Hall.
Kay Cox told the meeting that the
ground hockey practices had already
begun

The basketball manager, Norma
Sherman, proposed a year of continued successes without even the
occasional mistake of last year. The
playing of the ladies singles tennis

tournament now waits only on the}

pleasure of the elements.

Fielding Powerful Squad |

on to the rugger field to battle against the Irish from Saint
Mary’s College. The game is scheduled to get underway at 2.15

sharp, Saturday afternoon.

Everybody on the campus is won
dering how the new edition of the Bengals will fare in the first

game of the year.

Many new faces will present themselves to

the fans and much untried ability will be put to the test.

This year’s serum will be lighter |

than in past years but with three
frontliners like Feanny, Burgess
and Forgan Burnie Ralston is confident that it will compare favourably with the others in the league.
In the two lock positions Ernst and
Hartling, two former Intermediate
players, will be in there battling.
Bob MacDonald, who was outstanding on last year’s Cubs, will take
care of the tail-up’s duties and with
his vim and fighting spirit will put
lots of life into the forward pack.
It is not definite yet that these particular men will be in there Saturday but from observation for the
past week, Burnie thinks that they
are very likely men. Ralston is
quite proud of a new “find” this
year in the West Indian gentleman,
Feanny, who with his fast and
tricky footwork fits in perfectly as
the center-heeler.
Backfield Prospects

In the backfield, Adam Smith
looks like sure-fire for the flyinghalf job and he has shown that he
is capable enough for that position.
Smith possesses blinding speed and
a cool head which are two essentials for the flying-half spot. Bugs

 

THE LINEUP

MacKenzie will likely be at the
picking quarter, and has the ability

‘to get the most out of his scrum.

On the three-quarter line Farquhar and Giffen are sure starters but
the other two are doubtful. Bell
and Flynn have been doing well in
practice as has Bob Knight. Diminutive Bryce Burgess is also to be
reckoned with and Burnie Ralston
has a job in his hands to choose
two men from this galaxy. At the
fullback post, Bob Wade, stellar
rearguard of last year, will thrill
the stands with his breathtaking
tackling and long punting.

Coach Confident

With a fighting spirit such as the
team has this year they are capable
of taking all opposition and Burnie
Ralston is very confident that his
boys will roll over the Fighting
Irish tomorrow. If the stands are
filled with backers who have a spirit equal to the players then it is all
the more certain that The Bengals
will leave the field with the first win
of the season under their belts and
armed with a greater incentive to
go on and cop the City Championship for Dalhousie. Let’s see eyerybody out.

For the first time in three vears Dalhousie’s Tigers march |

DALHOUSIE ST. MARY’S

Fullback

Wade Fletcher

Three-Quarters

C. Giffen — Fraser

A. Farquhar Hyland

B. Burgess O’ Neill

P. Flynn Rounsfell
Halves

A. Smith Veinot

EK. MacKenzie Fennell
Forwards

R. Feanny Sullivan

Bell Schouler

A. Burgess Keene

A. Ernst Waller

A. Hartling MeCoombs_ ||

B. MacDonald Wallace |

Subs: L. Bell, D. Dunlop

Amirault, Jannigan

 

 

_ Have a

ie 2 Kj

   
 

—~ A

ih

|

it
ify
i

TAD
IN)
L

l

Wh
Lie
y

if
Ml
i

é

i i
4

j
VA

%

i
i
WI)

Hi

  
  

S

t

=\ Fig
o

2
rl
Ai

ft

Qs
ae

Coca-Cola = =Bear a hand

LA
“tA

Ma
a ;
4

... or inviting friendship in the fo’c’sle

When shipmates relax in a destroyer’s wardroom, the hearty
Have a “Coke” of a buddy is an invitation to get together. At
sea or on shore, this friendly phrase strikes the spark of comradeship. From home ports to the Seven Seas, Coca-Cola stands for
the pause that refreshes—has become the high-sign of friendliness

~ the world over.

The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

    
  
 
     
   
     

 

It's natural for Byperat names

to acquire friendly abbrevia
; tions. That’s why ou hear
Y Coca-Cola called ‘ “Coke:

* 681

 

 

season,

     

FROSH WHIPPED
IN “SOPH” BALL

In an interesting part of the initi
ation week activities a softball
game was staged after the Sophs
had challenged the lowly Frosh to
play. The game lasted for nine innings and was featured with many
brilliant plays throrughout. The
final score was 24-17 for the Sophs

who maintained their suprremacy on
the diamond as well as about the
campus.

Highlighting the game was the

unquestionable umpiring of Umpirein-chief “Mike Waterfield” and his
confederate, Seymour Black, who
handled the bases. The Frosh were
behind all the way and in an effort /
to stop the hitting rampage of their |
upperclassmen called on Sgt. Rogul
of the U. A.T.C. to take over the
hurling duties. On the first pitched
ball from Rogul, Catcher Carl Giffen of the Sophs teed off and lifted
a hard hit ball to the right field
fence for a homer. Cunningham
and Cook were outstanding for the
Frosh while Giffen was the standout
for the Sophs.

Lineups:
Sophs: Giffen, Harris, Miller,
Dunlop, Clark, Farquhar, Knight,

Chapman and Ferguson.

Frosh: Potechi, Cunningham;
Cooley, Smith, Miller, Cook, Sikel,
Lightfoot and Burgess.

Schedule Drafted

Last Friday night the executive
of the Halifax Services RugbyFootball League met and completed
their arrangements for the coming
The Navy and Fleet Air
Arm definitely promising to field
teams, a schedule was drawn up

Oct. 14—Dal. vs. St. Mary’s.

Navy vs. Fleet A. A.

eee Eee

October 13, 1944

 

RUGBY FOOTBALL
AIDS

(1st of a series by B. A. Ralston)

No. 1—The Art of taking the ball
. Better ball handling.

There are two ways of taking the
ball: (a) with the hands and arms
when the ball is falling from a high
kick, and (b) with the hands when
it is rolling along the ground or
bouncing low, but in neither case
should the ball be grabbed. In taking the ball from a high kick the
arms should be fairly close together, elbows not too far apart, thus
forming receptacle into which the
ball falls easily but yet cannot pass
through and drop to the ground. In
a high kick the hand must be above
the level of the eyes and the player
must watch the ball fall into his
hands. The eyes must not be taken
off the ball to watch the opposing
players. When caught the ball
must be brought into the chest by a
quick, nursing movement, being
careful not to let the ball hit the
body first. If the ball is taken below the level of the eye it drops
out. of vision, and only good luck
enables it to be taken. The proper
attitude means much to the college
player who hopes some day to be a
star in the game he loves. Fundamentals mean almost as much in
football as they do in tennis. Many
players are born but by far the
great majority of them are made.
Given an even break from nature, a
fair amount of speed and any
youngster may develop into a good
player. There is much to be gained
from football. It is a character
builder as well as a body builder.
Glance over the leading figures in
business, professional, and political
life throughout the Maritimes and
it will be a revelation in knowing
that many of them were stars in
their day. They loved the game for
its own sake.

(Continued next week)

 

 

Oct. 21—Tech. vs. Navy.
Fleet A. A. vs. Dal.
Oct. 28—St. Mary’s vs. Tech.
Dal. vs. Navy.
4—-Fleet A.A. vs. Tech.
Navy vs. St. Mary’s.
Nov. 11—Tech. vs. Dal.
St. Mary’s vs. F. A.A,

Nov.

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

5S. CUNARD AND CO., LIMITED

HARD COAL
COKE

Halifax, N.S,

 

YOUR SUITS

SOFT COAL
FUEL OIL

Dartmouth, N S.

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish

lines.

A good wartime-practice is:

Buy fewer clothes

—send what you have to Cousins often.

 

 

 
