ny os"

y oe were j ha) Ay ee
eA 7) kre, % . a i ah 4 iF uy ae
tsi err | te Z BA AIS Fe
my ‘ \

ik SP ales sel ; rie Pi ae eT Ay, < ame 8 ey: Fie Tey
c : a i ®t , pyr yen My a rp a re) b a Ay ra Po hon he ¢ ; ~ ;
7" f a gt ory te pe. ie ve vr sii a cr ie At a el '
nas oy bi ee 4 a a oP ae 44 rw [he See et a BS ey ve 3 ek A,
o ae s as

i

yi
‘ t 4 f
a sa 1%. meas
\}
7 ry Ne
ee 4" ‘ , . zs

4 Uy :
yey) ; ve s/h Ph i a
/ thy t '

ened 7" a'¢ Lee Te ee ae +f. a BPAY
rye a Oh aes ke
mh ‘aha j . : - i rs ’

i if
is PUL ROS ee

oe a ne ihe ve |
stat vi Prof. H. L.
Stewart

&
a

AMERICA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

to Address
R. T. Group |

Following
Debate

 

; y is i i 7: saa
ye ae: ; i “ Fiehs slant’) PAPA t FROM 65
7 VwAehaied OAR LA weit é > ‘
P a i Wie i Pe we iP |tan A re
} : v ee ;
} t a ; : os
: ' \ ty
>
: - ‘
d ev e ,

é wiir *

f ‘ : *%

STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

    

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 19, 1945

1 Views Aired At Round | Table M Meet

| ‘oun LXXVII No.1

Poll

 

ica

    

it

 

  
  
 
    
   

 

Puede eins SENG
} ® °
vox (Plans Drafted For New oe Representatives of Parties
DIS CciPUt Arts and Science Building =| s,s": ss Interrogated By Students

» TTS : University Still Lacking Funds A ga cee TRAE. Resulting Discussion Arouses Keen Interest
LF cee gad Ra ae The Gazette has been advised that plans have been drafted | TANT Business meeting.

Last Wednesday night the Dalhousie Round Table Group
were addressed by representatives of the four leeading political
parties in Canada—R. N. Fielding, M.L.A., speaking for the
Liberals; Major N. R. Murray for the Progressive Conservatives; Fred Young for the C.C.F., and Charles Murray for the
Labor Progressives. Each representative gave a short talk
explaining and justifying the principles and policies of his particular party.

In the open forum which followed, conducted by Round

> you think the construction of a
en’s residence should be undertake at Dalhousie?
Answers:
Verne Wallace (Engineering ’47):
I think a men’s residence should be
constructed on the unused section of
land back of the Science Building.
Because there is such a lack of

by the University for the construction of a new Arts Building.
This building, taking the place of the present one used by the
Arts and Science faculty, which was originally intended for the
Law School, will house, besides classrooms, the university administration offices now located in the Library and the Murray
Homestead, an auditorium, men’s and women’s common rooms,
departmental libraries, and the museum. It will cost over
$500,000 when equipped. At present the university is at a loss
for this sum, but expects to go ahead with construction as soon

J. C. McLAREN,
President.

 

 

Affable Atwood

 

 
 
 
 

housing facilities in Halifax, I think
construction should begin just as
soon as suitable materials become
available. The biggest single reason for such a residence would be
to bring the men students of the
University together, instead of be‘ing scattered all over Halifax. It

Boilermakers’ Holding
Annual Ball Jan. 26

GALA ENTERTAINMENT

as this necessary amount is obtained.
—— ©

The new building is to be situated
west back of the Archives on the
other side of the road. The main
section will run north and south
parallel to this road, and will correspond in size to the present Sci
Table President Don Harris, members of the audience questioned the speakers for further elaboration of their party
doctrine, and for their attitude towards ‘various national problems facing Canada today. The resulting discussion was unique
and highly interesting; the meeting itself was one of the most
successful of its kind ever held at Dalhousie. About forty students were in attendance.

“Liberalism” Defined

Fs we ; li h : itv of PLANNED ence building. The main entrance Mr. Fielding, speaking first, be- |
be Oa Nala Tage Lt will be here facing east. On the gan with an Lena aeian ot Liberal- | Sodale Teams
. a i = The Dal social season hits its peak| northern end a wing will be ex- ism. It is, he said, “a system under. ‘Ch I t ri
e F Marion Withrow (Arts °48)—I next Friday night when the Engin-| tended west with a northern en- which the Sndividins): ie the state | vty ane
| . ~ “Jeering Societ esents the Boiler| think there #hould definitely be al" ot pow ‘This, the biggest\qrn tuo dep mee cmstorwine or some other organization, is given, Debates To Start
Py Bae  aedt te thie maker@’ Ball. ie hea floors. There is to be a smaller wing the greatest opportunity for the Sodal eoasiters ae for a
if : best situation would be, in my opin- event of the year, will be held 28)/on the southern extremity which fullest development of his own fac- | SN ee taal

   
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
     
  
   
  
 
 
  
    
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
     
  
 
   

usual at the Nova Scotian, and the
committee in charge of the dance
has worked hard to make sure that
this will be an evening to remember.
Jerry Naugler and his orchestra
will be in front of the Podium, to
supply the best music to be had in
the city. There will also be an entertainment during the intermission.

New Year’s Biggest Formal

The Boilermakers’ Ball is the first
and also the biggest Formal of the
New Year, and the usual large turnout is expected. Dalsters are therefore advised to get their tickets
early, since they may not be sold at
the door. It is hoped to be able to
keep the dance exclusive, and tickets
will not be sold off the Campus unless the sales here lag. Dancing will
be from nine until one, with wellupholstered chairs to relax and to
intermission in.

jon, as close to Sherriff Hall as possible. Construetion should begin as
soon as possible, so it would be finished before I eb ha (7) Why?
Well, are you kidding .

Ted King (Law 45): aa most.
important thing for a university to
possess is a residence for the students. Such a residence is even more
important than professors. The
best situation for a residence at
Dalhousie would be on the big hill
back of the Science Building. Construction should begin as soon as
the war is over, if it does not prove
feasible to begin now. A residence
is necessary here to provide a place
for out-of-town students to lay their
heads after classes.

Pete Flynn (Engineering ‘46):
There should be a residence at this
university, of course. I think the

(Continued on Page Three)

EDITORS ANNOUNCE JANUARY 31
DEADLINE FOR YEARBOOK ORDERS

The circulation management, of this year’s “Pharos” wish
to announce to all students interested in obtaining a copy of
the Year Book that they must have their orders in to some
member of the circulation staff on or before January 31st.

This may sound like an early deadline, but in reality it’s
just as easy to order now as in two weeks’ time. A definite
number of covers must be ordered immediately to insure getting
the Year Book out at a reasonably early date. So please cooperate, sign up now, and thus help “Pharos” to make an early
appearance. |

200 Already Signed

Already over 200 students have
signed for a 1945 “Pharos”, which
is to be filled with pictures, articles,
candid snaps, biographies, ‘group
-shots, interesting stories, write-ups
on all campus organizations—in fact
a complete record, in picture and
story form, of your year 1944-45 at
the “College by the Sea”; all this
and delivered for $2.50.

So come on students — everyone
who has an ounce of pride in. their
chosen University, who wishes to
have a permanent record of activities during the year—sign on the
dotted line for a copy of the 1945
“Pharos”. The following attractive
girls, who may be found on all parts
of the campus, are ready with pen
and pad so that you students may
sign for your copy: Annetta Good
 

man, Julia Kaplan, Isabella Wilmot,
Jerry White, and Shirley Wolfson;
also the keen and efficient circulation manager Alan Blakeney has his
order book ready for all comers;
assisting Alan are Don MacLeod,
John Kinley, and Bill Pope.
Order “Pharos” Now

Just twelve more days to receive
orders, so all students interested in
obtaining “Pharos” make it a point,
if not accosted by any of the sales
staff, to get in touch with any of the
above names immediately. January
81st is the last day to make sure of
getting a copy; there can be no proerastinations, no resetting the deadline, no second editions of the book.
Order now and make sure of your
copy, and thus obtain in permanent
record form all the activities for the
entire year, 1944-45,

 

Vig
we)

»

will house an auditorium and stage.
This auditorium will have a seating
capacity of about 850. The architects have been working on the plans
for some time and now have them
near completion.

Library To Benefit

The Library will receive additional facilities, both by the vacating
of the University offices, and by the
transfer of certain books much in
demand by the primary Arts classes
to the departmental libraries of the
new building. The museum, now
hidden in the attic of the Library,
will also benefit from its new
location.

The Law School will move up to
Studley from Forest, thus. relieving
the pressure due to lack of sufficient
space in the Med School. The partitions on the second storey of the
present Arts building will be taken
down and the whole floor turned
into a reading room. This construction program is slated to commence
just as soon as the University is
able to secure the necessary funds.

King’s Debaters Win;
Advocate Maritime
Break With Federation

On Friday evening at Beethoven
Hall, Sackville, Pat Crewe and Margaret Morrison representing King’s
College, and upholding the affirmative of the resolution “that the future of the Maritime Provinces lies
in secession from the Dominion and
the federation of the three provinces to form a Dominion” defeated
the Mt. Allison debating team of
Bruce Dickinson and Charles Scott.
This was the first inter-collegiate
debate on the present schedule for
both universities.

Maritimes Maltreated

Kingda proved that since Confederation the Maritimes have not prospered in proportion to other provioces, government policies and Federal ‘party politics’ being an important contributing factor. It was
also pointed out that the Maritimes

 

to-day have the lowest ‘per capita

(Continued on Page Three)

 

See

“Unsung Campus Hero”

Editorial, Page Two)

What the NFCUS
Did At London

(Following are more complete details of N.F.C.U.S. conference from
which Dal delegates, King and
Smith, returned recently):

(1) Student Government:

This was considered an important
question so a whole afternoon was
given over to a discussion of the
various problems pertaining thereto, with delegates describing the
various types of students’ councils,
commissions, unions and societies
existing on the campus. Many
questions were asked and information exchanged with a view to securing maximum efficiency in this
phase of undergraduate activity,
which includes student financing,
publications, co - operative bookstores, athletic organizations, and
student relations with university
authorities. Much useful information was obtained on comparative
council fees—how collected and the
distribution thereof—and the financing of Year Books. The University
of British ‘Columbia explained how
its students financed and built their

own union building.

(2) War Veteran Rehabilitation
and Assimilation Problems:

The conference went on record as
commending the Dominion government for its desire to assist veterans in every way possible. It was
recommended that wherever necessary or desirable veterans’ clubs
and societies be set up on the Cam
(Continued on Page Two)

   

bating Mount Allison and Acadia
Universities at its trials on Tuesday,
when seven contestants fought a
bang-up verbal battle to seek positions as orators. When the judges’
decisions had emerged above the
words, Captain Clinton Havey, and
Fred Thompson became the Acadia
team, and Jim McLaren and Peter
O’Hearn the Mount Allison.
Unsuccessful entrants showed a
wealth of talent, and were Jim
Saunders, Don Harris, Alex Hickman. Judges were Pat Crewe, Pro(Continued on Page Two)

ulties”. After referring in history |
to the continual fight waged by the
Liberal party for universal sufferage
he accused the C. C. F. party of
planning to destroy it with its economic regimentation. He asserted
that their socialistic aims are
utopian and impractical; also that it
is impossible to introduce and develop them sufficiently during a five
year term of office.

Major Murray began with a defense of his party chief. He stated

(Continued on Page Three)

 

Happenings at Law School

By JACK NICKLESON

The results of the mid-year exams are posted and though all the
law students are not back yet, the
storm was weathered in the traditional manner.

Lawyers Shine At Trials
The often quoted, and sometimes
doubted maxim, “There’s not a flaw,
flaw, flaw in the boys in law, law,
law, etc.” was certainly justified in
the debating trials. Competing
against the various faculties two of
the three members of the law school
were chosen to lead the two teams
in inter-collegiate debating. The
two successful students were Clinton Havey and Pete O’Heran, both
of whom are army officers. The
boys will certainly do a fine job and
we feel sure that Maritime debating laurels will rest with “gold and
black.”
Defends Sixth Freedom
Alex Hickman is defender of
Newfoundland freedom, which, ac: co cording to “Hick” is the sixth freehen r bi ene dom. In the trials Alex recited the
the unconfirmed report that he is in | Reon aA a ene ae pagites
sais, Met taaPL ea a which were heaped, and which are
Sr Beene. entiemen, jet US) continuing to be heaped on his helphear from oe a less country. His presentation was .
a good deal more worthy than his
cause, and withall is placed very
well.

Stoffman Disappears

Among those who are among the
missing are Abe Shaffman, “Hardrock” Harrigan, and Dr. Barroy.
Many diverse and conflicting reports on these three are current.
Abe has joined the navy; or if he
hasn’t he intends to; or he may be
sick with some derangement or other. We suspect either “gingervitis”
or the “guntha.” “Hard - rock”
broke his leg, and has been laid up
since Christmas. We trust the injured member will not impede his
activitied other than scholastic. Al

From West Indies

‘Twe new members have been added to the law school this term, in
the person of Nollie Boodoosingh
and Henry Deba. These two gentlemen are from the West Indies,
and are going to England where
they will continue to study law. We
hope their stay at Dalhousie will be
both pleasant and profitable.

Abandons Hall

We hear Hickman is not going to
the “hall” this term. We feel that
it is dam “white” of Alex to give
the rest of us a chance. He missed
the dance at the hall last week—
and when we say missed we mean
missed,
 
  
   
  
    
  
   
    
   
  
   
   
 

ed 1869 ++ # “THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA”
__ _ Editorial Room, Arts Bldg.: Phone 3-7098

ei iat. Editor-in-Chief
JIM McLAREN (4-2236)

Features Sports
BOB McCLEAVE ALEX FARQUHAR
BLAIR DUNLOP
0 Photography Literary
BOB TUCK ERROL MeDONALD JOHN HIBBITTS
Circulation

ANNETTA GOODMAN
ISABEL WILMOT
Reportorial
AL LOMAS LIZ REEVES (C.U.P.)
_ JIM CAMPBELL ART SAFFRON
TED SHIELDS ~~ PAT CREWE JACK SIDEL
i? DON HARRIS BILL KELLY

Business Manager: FRED MARTIN

JACK NICHOLSON
MARY MacDONALD

 
 
    
  
  
   

THE ATWOOD LEGEND

On the fifteenth anniversary of his association with the
_ university, the Gazette pays editorial tribute to an unsung but
_ deserving campus hero—Roy Walter Atwood, genial bossman
of the Gym Store. ;

a ae | _ Roy started dispensing to Studleyites in 1930 with head_ quarters established in the old gymnasium. Transferring
_ temporarily to the Arts Building basement in ’32, he migrated
___ to his present quarters the following year. a

Pedy: sp Today ... “Roy’s” means more than a supply depot for
hf  ¢cokes, cigarettes and textbooks. It constitutes the nearest
__ approach to a student common-room on the campus. It is a
haven of relaxation’; a welcome sanctuary from the ordeals of
academic study.

Gre From 9.00 te 6.00, Monday through Saturday, affable
Fy _ Atwood greets streams of work-weary (?) collegians trickling
in from sessions in the lab and drafting room.

TA

 

B | “... What’s this .. . Looks like rain.”

aN “... Yeah, but it smells like coffee.”

ea “ .,.. Gimme a coke!”

: _“... Whatch got for dinner, Roy?”

ki One might expect a normal man to break down under the
Ke’ Strain. But not Atwood! He faces adversity with a stoic

' determination reminiscent of the ancient Spartan warrior. A
| perfect example of the “Health is Wealth” slogan, Roy enjoys
an All Bran breakfast daily and gleans his vitamins from a

carefully-planned diet (i.e., fish chowder and lamb stew).
; Nor are his Gymn Store labors confined to the culinary

a

—

Ss

ae
_—

t
I
k
I

pursuits as he has taken complete charge of the University
Book Store this year—a task demanding intricate figuring and
| considerable correspondence. |

a A ready conversationalist, befriended by countless cronies,
R Atwood has an encyclopaedic knowledge of university affairs
i and is frequently called upon to harangue or the “thises and

em thats” of campus controversy. Like the “salon” of old, “Roy’s”
_ is the favored oasis of gossipers and scandal-mongers—where
_ © debatable issues split the air “ad infinitum”. When it’s in workets, ing order, a battered jute-box groans away “ad nauseam”. The
_ whole contributes to an atmosphere which is suggestive of an
HY Egyptian market scene. Incidentally, Pasha Atwood dislikes

' jute-boxes, which may account for the fact that the machine
t _ collapses periodically to be adorned with an ‘out of order” sign.

Be Proud pater of four, Roy’s fatherly instincts show forth in
nee: A snack-bar counterpart

   
 
 
   
 

|

his _behind-the-counter personality.

‘c _ of radio’s “Mr. Anthony”, he is always ready with consoling and
_ onstructive advice for conscience-ridden habitués of the Store.

' Im all sincerity, however, we congratulate Roy Atwood on

_ his 15 years of devoted service at Dalhousie, and trust that his
_ “Silver Jubilee” will be editorialized in The Gazette 10 years
hence. Roy and the Gym Store are Dalhousie institutions with‘Out which campus life would be a pretty dull affair.

  

 

Dalhousie Uniuersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

      

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

    
   
 

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
. Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
iS : ee ~ History.
raduate* Courses recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Se, faa . - :
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses.

      
         
 
        
      
     
 
  

  

The Professiona! Faculties
; in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

    
 

 

   

“Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a vear
) in the B.Se. course, about $190 a yee: ; my

    

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

      
   

  

TSsas dockins need)
"7 i

en Pas

     

i aaa
=. =. Ki , aa %
CORA Neem peralt ts"

4

| ae

Ottawa

  

versity students.

vision may be necessary.
Conscription of Students

It is obvious, of course, that if
the regulations of Selective Service
are changed, they will be revised to
make it more, not less, difficult for
students to remain at university.
Our armies need reinforcements and

it is probable that, before this war |
is finished successfully, we will re- |

quire even a lot of those who are
now “Low category” men. The
United States has moved to use its
“low categories” in combat areas,
and it is quite possible that we may
yet follow suit.

There is, however, nothing more
to report than that, with so much

smoke—part of which is a screen, |
there is probably some fire and that, |
before many weeks, we may see an|
announcement of new student regu- |

lations.

Veterans Unassisted |

The Department of Veterans Affairs, and its divorced wife, the
Department of National Health and
Welfare, are coming in for a good
share of criticism around Ottawa.

‘ . . . . |
The former, it is said, in specific |

eases has not furnished the veteran
with the assistance to which he is
entitled in rehabilitation. Several
are attending Canadian universities,
on their own funds, rather than on

LHOUSIE GAZETTE

(“Inside” News from the Political Front) —
A CANADIAN UNIVERSITY PRESS FEATURE
By NEIL MacDONALD

SELECTIVE SERVICE

Right now, there’s a good deal of activity in Selective
Service Headquarters here and rumours are floating around
about a revision in the call-up regulations as they affect uniNo one in authority will do more than say
that the regulations are subject to continual review, that they
are therefore under consideration now, that the manpower
situation is growing more critical, and that it is possible a re
 

   
   
   

Se a

Te ee ke — — ae
- yale

Calling

| Staff Sketches
No. 2

|

 

 

Of all Campus figures C. L. Bennet needs no introduction. Born in
New Zealand, he attended school
and university there. A law student at university, his chief job during the summer was _ throwing
widows and orphans into the street
from the law office in which he
worked. He believes that this experience has served him in good
stead as Registrar. He served over
the rehabilitation. grant they should} yeas from 1916 to 1918 and in 1918
be receiving.

National Health and Welfare has
about twenty Civil Servants work
19 he taught in the Army Educational Scheme. He attended Cambridge for three years and then

ing for it, out of the 5,000 or 6,000 | came to Canada and the Kings staff

who will be needed to implement the | in 1922.

rather complicated system of Family
Allowances. It is going to take time
to train these people (to say nothing
of the time it takes to find an employee these days) and to design!
and set up the intricate tabulating |
machines which the operation re- |
quires.

Guessing is going on as to when
the first cheques. will appear, and |
very few authorities on the Civil |
Service think it can be done by July, |

What the NFCUS

(Continued from page one)

pus and given the same treatment
and assistance and made subject to
the same controls as other undergraduate organizations. The delegates felt, however, that veterans
eould adjust themselves best by assimilating with other students in
existing organizations.
Standing Committees

It also recommended the setting
up in every university of a standing
committee on veterans’ affairs, to
include members of the faculty, the
study-body, the veterans and the
government department of Veterans’
Affairs.

It urged that additional grants be
given to veterans entering college
to cover expensive textbooks and
equipment. It suggested that in
highly technical education, such as
aeronautical engineering, where advanced courses are not available in
Canada, students be permitted to
pursue their studies abroad, supported by the regular veterans’
grants (not now done). Honor and/
or senior. students were suggested
as a suitable source for free help in
tutoring where such help is needed
by those who find re-adjustment to
academic work difficult.

(3) Military Training:

Serious consideration was given
to this part of the students’ life,
illiciting a uniformity of opinion on
all campuses. The time was considered inopportune, however, to make

any recommendations so the question was referred back to a_ standing committee for further study.
‘(4) Education and Exchange

Scholarships:
After having discussed this at

some length and having heard the

In 1928 he married and
eelebrated by going to Harvard for
two years. In 1930 he returned as
Head of the English Department at
Dal, where he has lived happily
ever after.

i945. The job is too big to be done
in that time, and the time between
the passage of the bill and the first
of the New Year was almost entirely
spent without practical profit.
tentative criticisms and proposals
of a committee it was decided to refer ,both questions back to a committee for further study and recommendations.

(5) National Unity:

It wad both enlightening and encouraging to note the sound and tolerant attitude of delegates on this
thorny but pertinent problem.
Among the recommendations made
were: (a), that all universities make
at least one class in Canadian History compulsory for all students;
(b), students seek the faculties of
the CBC for national radio forums
on national questions.

 

(6) Revised the N.F.C.U.S. Constitution and elected a new executive. Dick Bibbs, of U.B.C. is
now president.

SODALES—

(Continued from page 1)

fessor W. R. Maxwell, and Bob McCleave, Sodales president.

Subject for the resolution argued
was “Resolved that British foreign
policy is to the best interests of the
United Nations,” with speakers having the liberty to pick some aspect
of the broad subject. Thompson and
O’Hearn took a negative attitude’ to
the Greek question; Havey, MceLaren, Saunders, and Harris an affirmative one, while Hickman giving
an extemporaneous speech spoke on
Newfoundland prospects of confederation with Canada. Wickman and
O’Hearn entered at the last minute,
after being spectators,

Meanwhile, it was announced the
much - noted interfaculty debates
would start Wednesday evening at
7 o’clock in the Arts Building, when
Arts and Science will tangle with
Engineering.

 

YOUR SUITS

lines.

(Gusins—

   
  
  
  
  

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER
When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish
A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
--send what you have to Cousins often.

  

 

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH

Challenger
Watches

These words mean more
than just a good watch—
they promise style plus
performance, plus  outStanding value for your
money.

Are you wearing a
Challenger?

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

 

 

 

 

 

ALWAYS WHOLESOME

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited

Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

    

HALIFAX

   

Nova Scotia

 
 

THE

Rosedale Nurseries

HALIFAX DARTMOUTH
381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 Spring Garden Rd. "H-2200

Jerry Naugler’s

Orchestra
88 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

 
ad |
1,

;

F

.
ii

i 4

: It was a white and pink mist,
hing all in its glory, surrounding
e denizens of Marmalade Wigwam
th a gentle and beautiful glow.

| Four hundred eyes shone with ex-]

tion, four hundred lips were
in ar and about 10,000 teeth

as gnashing when in odd moments

the inhabitants reflected there might
be those more beautiful than them.
“Mirrah, mirrah, on the wall,

| Who's the sweetest of us all,

Is it me, or is it Goity,

To lose that contest would be doity.”

Meanwhile, people were speculating on the campus beauty queens.
Up in their eeyrie, the engineers
were drafting a resolution to have
Linda Darnell made an honorary.
student of the University, while the
Law boys were boosting their own
candidate, who shall remain name
_ less though not formless.
....The Medical stewdents had taken
“the choicest cadaver off the ice, and

ie

weoe trying to assemble it together
to make a single picture. The Dents
had chosen the girl they would most

‘like to extract teeth from, and the

>

;

L

1]

) .and fed for a month on the usual

_ while walking the city beat.
give it to you for a nickel,” the fair |

Arts and Seance kids were doing
their best to promote 16 candidates
at ‘once.

Rob McLeak, Gazoot big stiff, who
had begun the dissension, was meanwhile following leisurely the golden
appled Atlanta was throwing at him
“T'}1

miss carrolled, but his mind was on
other subjects.
a When he reflected, it was far too
late.

Stripped of their plumage, 44

, tough-looking mugs were dashing

—and hurtling earthwards, while un- |

" the curvature of their ‘spines.

room clerk, “get these men outfitted,

derneath with a huge net, Colonel
Jinx awaited. “Such a fine catch,”
he commented. “About 45% perfect, but a little exercise under sergeant Plum Duff should straighten

“Beaver,” he yelled at his orderly

give them winter meltons, and see

2

_ (and his moustache bristled).

tt

; »
:

,

@
‘2
1%

rr.
*
1.

k

i]

if

at
‘at:
%

*

y

a8
)

_ “at the Royal College for the develop
- mental drape-shaped-ape.
To Hell with mé. Good morning.

”

Ve
¥
Va

_ western farmer can undersell the |

5

'

*

=
ar

uy

at

n

Rs

oy

raised over their head, and yelling,

= se has two stripes,” said one. |
at. settles. it,’ said. the other. ||

they are fairly presentable. And for
those—um—that have been in the
OTC but deserted—rank desertion”
(Say,
he hasn’t got a moustache). (We’ve
_ been accurate so far, we can afford
a few lapses). “I say, feed them
bread and water.” Those guilty
were marched off to Sweet Hovel

grub, coming back with their arms

“Send us to the front. Starve us.

But don’t give us any more of them,

there vitamins.”
* Ba
Yodeles, deflating society, was
holding its annual trials and errors

would out despite it all. Speaking

on the partition of the Canadian
bull in a post-war world seasoned
with British apple sauce, the speak
ers made merry hash out of plans] cause

to build the post-war world around
Dr. Stewpot. But that gentleman
did not hear; he was in Montreal,
arranging for a lecture on Platter

ment of simian-pure characteristics
among young people, or a sort of

 

: 9 '

King’s Debaters
(Continued from page one)
wealth’ of any of the provinces and
also that because of unjust trans+
portation policies hte Ontario and

_ Maritime farmer in Maritime distributing centers. It was also

shown that the present tariff policy |

does not benefit the Maritimes and
- that the Maritimes are forced to buy
from a protected Central Canadian

market with which it has an ad- |

verse balance of trade. ¥

 

There is the story of two privates

who paused to puzzle over a dead||

- animal they. saw at the roadside.

 

j

oe a skunk or a corporal.”

Bit

ne we, 2

  
   
  

  

 

 

Even though Bill T. hails from
Ontario and Jeep-land, we are
glad to see that he knows how to
pick local attractions from under
a streetlight. Maybe Connie will
agree with us? ? ? ? ?
* * *

Chopin; the Nazis say, was “of
course German”. They claimed
Rembrandt some time ago and now
have their eyes, no doubt, on Wilheim Schaekspier, Michel von Angelan, Kristoffer Kolumbutz, Herr
Doctor Aristodl, late of Greece, and
the so-called Chinese philosopher,
Konfuschius.

ES % %

Old Knowsey mourns the passing of romance from the lives of
the brother Burgess. The sight of
Art at the dance last Friday muttering: “Look homeward, angel
and melt without Ruth” was indeed saddening. Young brother
Bryce also seems to have split
the ties with Nancy. But before
salting too much beer Knowsey

, turns a happy eye on Farq and
Mary, and Dex and Jean, still
constant through exams and high
water.

at * oe

The churches. of this land are
sprinkled over with bald-headed old
sinners whose hair has been worn
off by the friction of countless ser
‘mons that have been aimed at them

and have glanced off and hit the
man in the pew behind.
* 5d *

Found: Another Swoonatra.
Have you heard “Bugs” serenading the campus with “I guess, that
Happiness is just a Gal named
Jones”. Harmonious, Mac,

monious.
x *

A red Indian of considerable culture was engaged to play a part in
a Hollywood film. One day while
he was in the studio awaiting instructions a film star approached
him with the idea of showing a
little consideration to “the poor
savage”’.

“Well’’, he said kindly, “how do
you like our city?”

“Very well, thank you,” replied
the Red Indian, “how do like our
country ?”

* % *

Kenny Fraser took Ruth Manning
to the dance (Friday). Where is
Irene ? ? ? We also wonder about
Mike Waterfield, the woman hater.
(What those Mt. St. Vincent girls
can do to our engineers)!

* % *

The business of the ministry is to
comfort the afflicted and afflict the
comfortable.

* * *

We wonder if Mary MacDonald is
turning out for basketball just beise she likes it, or could it be because the girls are going to Mt. A.
the same time as the boys. What
say, Farq!!!

LOCAL COLOR

For interesting, accurate reports of local
events, read The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail. Every
thing that happens in
the Halifax area that
is newsworthy is recorded in the columns
of these great newspapers, compiled by a
staff of ienced reporters. . The completeness of local news coverage makes The Halifax Herald and The
Halifax Mail, the most
popular newspapers
East of Montr

The Halifax Herald
The Halifax Mail

 

 

har- |

‘hab. Thoult Mr. Wricken contest a

Drafting Room Chatter: “Extra,
extra! Copp cops a cup!” ... “She
was a washout in the blackout...”

. Paul Russel, talking to a ticket
salesman: $3.50, eh? I'll make it
five bucks if you provide a date”

. Sulskey, “How do the waitresses
at the Hall compare with those at
the Cameo?”

Lest we come to blows with him,
we wish to apologize humbly to our
Newfie friend, and make it clear
that (1) his name is not spelled
with an “e”’, (2) he has never had
intimate associations with St.
Mary’s, (3) he is not an habitual
imbiber of spiritous beverages, ESPECIALLY (1). On the contrary,
he tells us he is quiet, studious and
modest; or, in other words, he leads
a fine, dull life. ,

* * *

Louie (surveying fifteen of his
fellows silently weazeling: “Look,
boys, there is such a thing as working too hard.”

All: “How the——do you know?”

* * *

Mike and Roslyn took their Gym
store friendship upstairs to the
dance, rather than down to the heating dystem, as was originally planned. Apparently she figured things
wouldn’t be so hot for her up there.

* * *

The familiar chugging of Ronnie’s motorcycle is missing from the
Dal scene these days. We'd like to
know whether the icy roads are to
blame, or whether he is saving his
gas for his jaunts to Hubbards; that
contented look of his re in just | J
one direction.

* ak *

The Engineers vs. Misa White
campaign is now in full swing. Little can be said about Miss Morocco,
but lots can be seen. You really.

should get a load of the radius of

curvature of her left elbow!
* * *

Time: 4.15. Place: Roy’s. Don
and Zelda discovered at cokes; Zelda
guzzling from the bottle, Don sucking a straw. Each stares into the
other’s eyes blinks hard, stares
again. Enter two dark figures, unmistakably Engineers. One speaks:
MacLeod, you are accused by the
Commuters Union of leaving at 3:59,
and of walking out backwards to
make us think you were coming in.
Moreover, you are sucking the
wrong end of the straw. Come with
us.” MacLeod clutchés Zelda’s
skirt, cries, “But fellows! I dowanna!” Exit Engineers, dragging
MacLeod. Curtain falls on Zelda
vainly trying to guzzle both cokes
at once.

seat in the House, the resulting byelection would create a bitter political uproar, unnecessary and even
harmful during the period of the
present national emergency. He
then advised his listeners that old
systems should not be thrown out
the door until better ones can be
found. Those of the C. C. F. were
not better ones. “Every man needs
to be given an equal chance to make
himself unequal’ he _ said. The
socialistic policies of the C. C. F.,
did not give a man this chance.
Says Maritimes Ignored

Calling himself first and foremost
a Nova Scotian, and second, a Canadian, Major Murray attacked the
MacKenzie Government for ignoring
Nova Scotia and refusing to help
bring in the improvements we so
desperately need. He claimed that
the Bennett government had taken
an altogether different attitude.

Mr. Fred Young agreed with Mr.
Fielding that the Liberal party had
been the reform party in the past
and that it had succeeded in bringing about much beneficial legislation. He made it clear, however,
that it had always been the party
of the capitalists—it had grown
with industrialism—and as soon as
they had been able to replace the
feudal barons as the ruling aristocracy, they had united with the
Tories.

Capitalism, he said, “must eventually lead to fascism, for the capitalistic parties are financed by the
big industrialists and are pledged to
appease them with their legislation”. Finally, he declared that the
capitalistic system had failed.

Mr. Charles Murray agreed with
Mr. Young that regimentation is
necessary for the maximum efficiency. Mr. Murray expounded the
differences between his party and
the C. C. F. The Labor Progressives do not aspire to political
power; they want to improve the
present position of labor in Canada;
they intend to do this by backing
the party that is pledged to bring
in legislation favorable to labor.
At the present time they are supporting the capitalistic Liberal party
because capitalism is working efficiently in Canada today.

‘Mr. Murray predicted an amalgamation of the two capitalistic parties
in Canada in the near future, interpreting the recent Ralston affair
as a move on the part of the Progressive Conservatives in this direction.

The impossible has happened!
Believe it or not, Proc showed up
last Friday night in the company of
a woman. Three years was a long
time to wait, but at last he has
found THE ONE.

page ey page ene)

best possible place to build one
would be where the Murray Homestead now stands. Construction
should begin as soon as the war is
over, because I don’t think wartime
is the right time to begin such a
project. A residence would do a
great deal to increase Dal. spirit as
well as give outside students a place
to live while attending classes here.
oe
Results Of Survey

In conjunction with the above
gtatement$ twenty other students on
both Studley and Forrest Campus
were questioned also. Of the twenty
questioned, answers regarding the
situation of a new residence varied
from next-door Sherriff Hall to Young
Avenue, the greater number, however, favoring the big hill between
the Science Building and - Coburg
Road. Asked when construction
should begin, twelve of the twenty
questioned, favored an immediate
start, another six voting for “after
che war” and the remaining two including “next year” and “two years
after the war.’’ Replies to the ques
tion WHY were rather more diverse, varying from: “to increase
Dal. spirit,” to this one—“for the

promotion of a fuller social life for
Sherriff Hall girls.” Most students,
however, decided that a residence

\Co-Eds Still few:
Chance to Enter
Beauty Contest

morning, January 18, 1945) no contributions have been received in our
Beauty Contest.~ This is not surprising. We hardly expect the
young ladies to come forward on
their own accord.

Yet rumour gently gargles in our
ear that a picture, and of a lovely
lassie too, is forthcoming next week.
That will initiate the contest. From
then, the fight is on, and may the

powderpuffs fly as past as the
smashing off burnt-out camera
bulbs.

The Feature Editor humbly ‘suggests, so that his meager contact
with Hollywood is not slighted for
pouring the suggestion into our ear
one wintry day but a short while
ago, that societies, such as the engineers, come forward with the
names of their favorites.

We are not running the commercialized glamor contests Hollywood
bakes in. Instead, we are providing
diversion with interest.

was needed for the simple reason of
giving the out-of-town students a
place to live near the University,
where everyone could get together.

 

go

GO) £ f
oo id ey
OF LEADERSHIP IN ENTERTAINMENT

LVAUVCIGA 2

FAMOUS PLAYERS THEATRES
1920 — 1945

 

ORPHEUS

ANNIVERSARY WEEK
PROGRAMMES

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
“DELINQUENT DAUGHTERS”
“MAN IN GREY”
Thursday, Friday, Saturday
“BIG BONANZA”
“SHERIFF OF SUNDOWN”

 

CAPITOL

Monday, Tuesday, Wednes..

“The Master
Race”

with George Coulosis

 

GARRICK

Saturday - Friday

“National Barn Dance”

“GROAT McKINTY”

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“Trish Eyes Are
Smiling”

with Monty Wooley

 

 

starring

* MART

and his WESTERN GENTLEMEN
Canada’s Spotlight Band

Songs by ART HALLMAN
NORMA LOCKE and the QUARTET

¥& | the week’s. SPOTLIGHT PARADE
OF TOP TUNES

% THE STORY OF A SONG

Famous melodies br

sketches — colorful,

Every Monday
FF DIAL
1240

CB

 

 

Sune Gn!
COLA MU

KENNEY

ht to life in short dramatic
ast-moving, entertaining!

TRANS-CANADA
NETWORK

 

 

 

Maestro of the Music Club

8:00 - 18:30 P M. ,

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA,

 

LLU”

 

LIMITED

- aT
vi? gan he

MC.-2

x
J

 

ICASINO

:
ONE WEEK
Starting Saturday, Jan. 20

eC a es

“SUMM
STORM”

starring

GEORGE SENDERS |
LINDA DARNELL

OXF ORD

Today and Saturday

“GREENWICH VILLAGE”
Carmen Miranda & Don Ameche

Monday and Tuesday

“SIGN OF THE CROSS”
“GILDERSLEEVE’S GHOST”

Wednesday and Thursday

“THE HAIRY APE”
ROGER TOUHEY, GANGSTER’

To date (1:43 a.m. Thursday

     

S
or ya
 
 
  

  

) see action on the weekend.
8 S45) the

  
 
 
 
   

 

  
 

an: e in

 
 

 
 

 
 
  

   

    

 
 

7
He?

  

ty

‘i mk oe. ‘Cunningham a heavy hitter and,
ABN ee blocker, Ferguson has an ideal

Shi "The basketball quintet makes
Re sits: first appearance outside the
i city on Friday and Saturday
fa stats when they take on the De~ bert Army in the first engagement and the Debert Air Force
in the second tilt. .Manager Bill
_ Mingo has completed all arrangements and a successful trip is exyi pected. The Debert management
a a invited the players to bunk
in army barracks, so as well as
bi playing: two exciting games, the
ae will get a taste of real
_ army life.

| ae Erte the fine showing on Wed
  

   
  
   
  
  
    
   
 

oe

  
   
 

 

| two > wins.

" Mees | aig and accurate shootOs ing. The blazing speed had the
ey . opponents baffled and in the first
half the Army lads only could break
: aie ' the collegians close checking system
me Mia - for. a mere four points. The ballyi handling can certainly be ope

   

i thorn machine as yet.
. Prequenters ef the gym feel

5S Dene this week. The Sparrow is
Ny iy quite painfully confined to his
Ue home but is expected to be around
shortly. r
twit Congratulations to Professor W.
©. Copp of the Engineering dei partment, who won out in a recent bonspiel over many highly

p | Dear readers (2)—-Keep your
eyes peeled on the notice boards
for news about the commencement
| ms, of Interfaculty Boxing, Hockey
_and Basketball,

*

MEN'S FUR

Both nthe hah vey ead ApSedeobtial

Dal ‘ice-men

| 0: n ms a great deal of
his boys and has optiviews about the outcome of
ruggle. The forward lines are }
potent and the defence is dedable. We think it is a wise
move to place young Len Potechin,

ie _ Mo ontreal junior product, on defence. He is a fast skater, good
pu deuirrier and the best poke
| checker on the team; with his mate,

       
       

         
    
       
      
     
    

   
  
    
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
    
  
     
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
      
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
    
 
 

 

 

    

Dal Swamps Kings
51-20 In Fast Tilt

In a wide-open, high-scoring
game, the Dal Tigers showed revamped form and swamped the
Jeepa from Kings by a score of 5120. The Kingsmen started off with
a scoring spurt and had a 6-0 lead
with only a minute gone. Then ‘the
Dal boys found their eyes and repeatedly threw field goals into the
opponents’ net. Alf Cunningham accounted for most of the Bengal’s
scores and tallied 14 points in the
first half. The game was featured
by Dal’s fast passing and_ fastbreaking attack which was culminated by some uncanny shooting.
The Jeeps had a decided advantage
in height but their shooting under
the basket was very unaccurate,
while the Dalsters took advantage
of every shot and rarely missed.

Throughout the game, the Dal

boys used a close checking system
and set up many screens which
placed our boys in scoring position
time after time. At the half-way
mark, Dal was far ahead and in the
last canto kept. up the blistering
scoring pace. Cunningham, Dunlop
and Pope were the chief point-getters for Dalhousie, all made on fast
breaks or with unerring long shots.
Cunningham led all scorers with a
total of 18 points while Blair Dunlop closely followed with 14. Doug.
Clarke, D.A.A:C. prexie, refereed
the game and turned in a fine job;
Bill Mingo carried out his managerial duties efficiently:
R. Cooley 2; C. Giffen;
V. Clarke; A. Smith, 4; A. Fardquhar, 4; A. Cunningham, 18; B.
Pope, 7; B. Dunlop, 14; A. Robertson, B. Mingo, Man. 0.

    

   

Lineup:

 

ARENA SKATING

Skating will begin shortly at
the Arena, Monday nights—Free
admission for Dalhousians on presentation of Students’ Council
Card.

FELT HATS

Offered In A Good Selection at EATON’S

ie OOSE your new fur felt at EATON’S! ... Our Men’s Wear
tay Department offers for your selection hats in sporty styles
as well as models of more conservative types.

op shades. PEA Sy inh 3. 75 to 10 .00

In a choice of

Bee . Phuc a ok _BATON’S Main Floor

    
  
  
  

  

EAT

ae "MARITIMES

oiceo

  
 

CARL GIFFEN STARS

On Wednesday night of this week the Tigers were hosts to
a smart squad of hoopsters from A 23. They came here with a
good reputation and an exciting game was anticipated by all.
The Dalsters had been practising all week in preparation for
this game and were out to show their wares, while A 23 were

out to show our boys that they
would play.

Dal’s starting lineup was Giffin
and Cooley, guards; Farquhar and
Cunningham, forwards, and Dunlop
centre. From the opening whistle
the game started fast and Cunningram rushed in for a basket. From
then on the boys went on a scoring
spree and found the basket for fourteen points in the first half, while
holding A238 to 4 points. The soldiers from A23 found it hard to get
used to the big gym and missed
many shots which seemed comparatively easy. Star of the first half
and of the game was Dal’s fast-cutting guard Carl Giffen. Giffen netted six points in the first half

were as good a team as any we

In the final half the A238 boys became steadier but could not stop the
high-flying Tigers who were in a
scoring mood. The Bengals walked
off the floor with a convincing win,
by a 34-16 score. The game, however, was fast and interesting and
left nothing to be desired. The
team leaves this week for Debert
and we hope that they can keep up
their good work and bring back two
victories.

Lineup: Giffen 8, Dunlop 6, Cunningham 4, Smith 6, Robinson 2,
Pope 2, Farquhar 2, Clark 2, Cooley
2, Algee.

P. T. INSTRUCTOR PLANNING
INTENSIVE GYM COURSES

The Physical Edueation Department of the University viewing the
apparent disinterest of the majority
of the studenta to make use of their
gymnasium will sponsor instructive
classes in the various games and
skills to which all will be warmly
welcomed. It is our desire especially to teach those who have not
had previous experience in any physical activity of which they should
elect to take part.

Physical Training Classes for upper classmen will be held regularly
each week on Monday, Wednesday
and Friday at 4:30 p.m. for the express purpose of taking part in our
Conditioning and Keeping Fit Program leading to better health for
the individual. Students desiring to
participate in the following physical training program of instruction

will register with the Physical
Director.

Physical Training Director—
BORA tas wc ks ate Mare lalowlecd 6 any |

Dal Pucksters See Action
Today For First Time

On friday, Jan. 19th, at 1.15, Dalhousie will take on St. Mary’s rugged hockey squad in a_ practice
game at the Arena. This will be the
first engagement for the team and
will give the coach an idea as to
their ability when matched against
a strong, well-organized opposition.

In. practice, the players have
shown up well and there is still
considefable uncertainty as to the
actual, final make-up of the team.
For this practice game, the only

definite positions on ,the line-up will
Filling
this game

be in goals and on defence.
the goalie’s skates for

ORO NOE otek. italia Ventuataibbree see Cry
| Wrestling §......s.eccses tess. fii)
FIRS CCHERIIE F605 Gla! wie’ a ake siete aie (9

USAIN a esse gw eb C.D

OE UERT OE, DLL g Width wie ale aisha a ie

PVM TANS spd Wald ere ip a's bein bie ee As C43

POUCH ECU DY. | Sis dele chee bese ie Cy)

CORAPSUIOTIIOCES 20 Sis; bas since eva ele G4/)

MOTTV ESTE fa elite ca ahs, Sie eect alan 4% b*.)

PSGARTRTUETR |b S's ie Gla a Riddia tale ale to

Upper Classmen Gym Period ( )

Corrective Physical Training... .(1)

Advanced Gymnastics

CA TIORYVAGUS Plc iain Sie oDacc od Sols (+)

Social Dancing (Engineers)...(  )

Track and Field Class......... Cc)

Swimming (Beginners and Life

OVE Ee lala bade pga’ at hel da CB

EBAGOT: SOCCER Le Wi ules aereates Sn 1

European Handball ........... a

Art of Ju-Jitsu and Close ComPeet RAP IUATIES Wing see 2. 6h e's Jae asthe
Time-table forms obtainable a

the office of the P. D. should be fill
ed in if day-time classes are desired
otherwise specify the night suitable.

will be a newcomer, freshman Harold
Giffen, who has shown great improvement at each practice and has
been kicking out the rubber in great
style recently.

Our defence will be four stalwarts, Wade and Graves, teaming
up from last year’s outfit, the other
pair being R. Cunningham, a big boy
who can really hit, and freshman
Len Potechin, a nice poke-checker
annd a fast skater.

As yet, the forward lines are most
indefinite. Those trying out Friday
will include Dick Currie, McKelvie,
Art Lightfoot, Ted LeBlanc, G.
Simon, Blakeney, B. MacDonald,
Carl Giffen, D. Isnor, P. Flynn.

 
  

. DAL GYM - FRIDAY, FEB. 16

Pick Your Girl Now For
THE JUNIOR PROM

   
    

Jerry Naugler — Formal

 

 

DON’T MISS THE

Boilermakers’ Ball

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL FRIDAY, JAN. 26

TICKETS $3.50—Sold by

Carl Little
Art Burgess
Steve Bloomer

Formal

Don McLeod
Pete Flynn
Doug Clarke

No Corsages

Par

)
+} Art Hartling.

\. = dy at ‘ :
: ; ieee Nk is YT x i ‘ . oe
ee ee ay kee eee a ee

  

 

Mingo’s

that since badminton manager

 

  

tions.
meeting was adjourned.

_ January 19, 1945 .

ARMY, 34- 16

were read by the secretary and after
being approved, the new business
was brought up. The first item was
the reading of a letter of resignation from A. Farquhar as manager
of the basketball team, and Bill ,
application was received
and passed. Next it was decided

A.

Cunningham had resigned, notices
would be put up asking for applicaAfter some discussion the /

 

Jeeps Trounce Tigers
In Revenge Match

Showing a complete reversal of

 

form the “Jeeps” from Kings de-| —>= Z
feated our Tigers by a score of 36- C 4
27. The game was featured by | Alley Sy.
rough playa and rather lack-a- | =>
daisical refereeing. THAT WILL

The Dal boys started fast but the «|
“Jeeps” soon found the range and | NEVER LET =

at half-time the. Kings boys hada ¥%
six-point lead. In the first half,
Dawson, playing coach for Kings,
made his first appearance and add-,
ed much to the power of the Kings |
offensive. Allen of the “Jeeps”
scored eight points in the first half
and was very potent under the basket.

In the last half the Dal. boys
fought gamely with Cunningham |
and Farquhar working together for |
10 points. However the Kings boys .
played steady ball and carried on to |
win by a 9-point margin. Cunningham was high-secorer for Dal, with
10 points.

 
   
   
   

  

@ For smoother,
faster work from
points that never
break, try these
three college
favorites:

Lineup: ‘Cunningham, 10; Far-|
quhar, 31; Dunlop, 6; Giffin, 2;.

WRITING PENCK.
Pope, Cooley, 2; Robinson, Smith, 4.

ERITHIN

COLORED PENCIL

 

D. A. A. C. Meeting

The first meeting of the D.A.A.C.
in 1945 was held on Thursday, Jan. |
11, with prexie Doug. Clark officiat- |
ing. Present at the meeting were}
President Doug. Clark; Vice-President, Blair Dunlop; Secretary, Bob
MacDonald; Faculty Rep., Dr. H.
Bell; Art and Science Rep., J. W. E.
Mongo; Law Rep., Fred Martin and

DRAWING PENCIL
*

The minutes of the first meeting |

 

   

“a

 
 
    
   
   
   
  
   
  

m Your Long Distance Operator”

“Here is a suggestion that if followed will speed up
your Long Distance service and at the same time help
me immeasurably:
First: Give the name of the town
calling.
Second: Give the number of the distant telephone,
or if you do not know the number, give

the hame and address of the distant
subscriber,

Third: Wait until the operator asks your number,

then give it to her along with your name.
Thank you.”

MARITIME TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE
CO., LIMITED

or city you are

LYSIS"

    
   
 

TURQUOISE

 
 
  

 
