i 3 H — . io
‘* 4 [ =F. D a, y tie =! “ta “y * Am irs
ar. | a ey : mt a A ; F : ? ’ ‘
- ao hoe ae fa eo
CAF ae SIAR See
a a votre “o i ‘i t
’ . ——. 1
t y ‘ + oe i 5

           
 
 
 

  

i

STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

Professor
Bennet’s
Views on

Education

       

AMERICA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

 

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

    

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 27, 1944

Tigers Plus Supporters GYM SCENE OF Mevidiiitan
Ready To Whitewash Axemen MERRY.MAKING — Enlist As Blood Donors!

On Friday night, Oct. 20, Dal- |
housie dance fans once again headed GIVE SUPPORT AT FIRST CLINIC NOV. 7
“What You Won't Miss, They Die Without’

for the Gym, where the Students’

Council were holding their annual

dance. They were greeted by the

music of Don Lowe’s orchestra. On :

the receiving line were Dr. and Mrs. The first clinic of this term for Dalhousie student donors

Archibald, Dr. and Mrs. Saunders,| Will be held at the Public Health Clinic on Tuesday evening,

and Mr: end Mis, Art Titus. November 7th. Donating blood is one way in which each one
of us can make a real contribution to the war effort, for remember that a pint of blood can save a life. Each day seems to be
looking better for the Allied cause, but our gains are being made

at the cost of longer casualty lists This cost is being reduced

At intermission the spirit of old
Dalhousie welled to the surface and

by the work of the Red Cross Society through the Blood Donor
Service.

under the rousing leadership of Jack
Boudreau and Lauchie McLellan, the

Those of you who made blood donations last year should start the

rafters rang with Dal cheers and Dal
songs.

ball rolling by registering with your

faculty representative onthe Blood
Donor Society (the names of these
students will be announced shortly),
or by phoning 38-4297 and leaving
your name with Larry Sutherland,
who is chairman of the society.

No. 4

  
  

 

 

CAMPUS
- CLIPPINGS

by GRAHAM BATT

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

W.C.T.U. Worker—“You drunken
beast. If I were in your condition
I’d shoot myself.”

Just A Wee Bit Stinko—“Lady, if
you—wash in my condition, you’d
miss yourself.”

GOONS
sic 4M Boy?
. TEAR 14

76 GITSf

te eee
* + * —— ees

The universal wail of student
kind has finally poetic voice in the
University of Western Ontario. The
sad refrain runs thus:

“Oh, L am worried till I am weary
O’er this problem grave and deep,
Shall I sleep and lose my breakfast
Or rise and miss my sleep?”

volunteer will be submitted to Dr.
Holland before the clinic night, and
any whose medical examinations
show that they had better not do(continued on page two)

All Male Students

Invited to Smoker

All men students of the University
are requested to keep Friday, November 10th, open for a Smoker,
which is to be given on that evening
in the gymnasium by the Alumni
Association. The object of the As
Our hearts went out in sympathy
to the members of the Dal football
squad, who were requested to leave
the dance floor at the uninspiring
hour of 10.80. However, the score
of Saturday’s game with the Fleet
Air Arm made this sacrifice seem
not in vain.

PLENTIFUL >
A QUANTITIES —>
of LOYAL ="
ROOTERS —* 1%
VW: \ -”

 

* * *

INGENIOUS
Beggar—‘Have you got enough
money for a cup of coffee?”
Professor—‘Oh, Pll mange somehow, thank you.”

* x *

| Two young soldiers on leave turn+t er their night off into a prolonged

 

Again on Saturday night, Oct. 21,
the Dal gym was a scene of merriment, for it was the night of the
Youth Commission Dance, and being
the weekend of the regional conference in the city, there was a large

To those who have never given donations, we will attempt to explain
in the form of questions and an
swers, just what is involved in making a blood donation.

What Is the Blood Donor Service?

 

 
 
  
  
   
    
   
   
    
 
 
 
    
  
  
    
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
    
 
  

 

rendezvous with John Barleycorn.
When one of them regained consciousness, he was lying in a hospital

bed completely swathed in bandages.

He turned to his bleary-eyed friend
and asked: “What happened to me,
Tom?”

“We were sitting there very peaceful-like,” explained his friend, “when
suddenly you jumped to the ledge of
a window on the sixth floor and
cried, ‘Here’s where I fly down
Broadway.’ ”

“Why didn’t you stop me?” said
the bandaged one indignantly ?
"Stop you,’ was the reply, “I
thought you could do it.”

* + *

MUST BE THE RAIN, DEAR

In California—of course—a woman gets a divorce because her husband provided venison all the time.

“What’s for dinner, dear? “Yes,
deer.” “What, deer?” “Yes, dear,

eer.” “Oh, deer!”

 

Prof. Mercer
Hon. Pres.D.A.A.C,

At the semi-annual meeting of the
D.A.A.C. held yesterday noon in the
chem theatre Professor C. H. Mercer
was elected Honorary President of

the club, the prevailing opinion

among the members being that it
was the least they could do to demonstrate their appreciation of the
excellent work in athletics he has
been carrying out on the campus.

President Doug Clarke then called
for applications for swimming and
hockey managers, and Don Harris
was appointed in the latter capacity.
Those interested in the swimming
managership were advised to contact

Bob MacDonald, secretary, before

Tuesday of next week. The club’s
activities for the coming year were
discussed, Clarke expounding his
plans, which are to include two
teams in football and basketball, one
in hockey and swimming, costing approximately two thousand, six hundred dollars. A suggestion was put
forward that players on senior and
intermediate teams be allowed to
compete in interfaculty sports in

order to strengthen the leagues that

fell rather flat last year due to the

_-searcity of men. The majority said

-. Continued on page 4)

“

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
   

It has been said that Dalhousie has no spirit, that very little
interest is shown by the student body with regard to sports and
If this accusation is true, then we, the students, are to blame; so let’s do something about it. A university
can display a good college spirit only when each and every
student puts his or her best spirit and interest in the college

other activities.

activities.

* We have an opportunity to do just
this tomorrow, Saturday, Oct. 28th,
when Dal Tigers meet Acadia Axemen at Wolfville in a rugby game
that promises to be quite a match.
Let‘s see a big gang board the Saturday morning train to Wolfville.
C.0.T.C. and U.A.T.C. parades have
been postponed, so there is no possible reason why we shouldn’t have
at least one hundred and fifty Dalhousie rooters on the stands at Acadia cheering our team to victory.

Remember that tigers are known
to roar when engaged in battle. Well,
our Dal Tigers will be too busy
carrying the ball over Acadia’s goal
line to do any roaring, so we in the
stands will have to do it for them.

Let‘s give our team the support it
deserves and requires to continue its
recent successes. Dal students are
capable of cheering; this was demonstrated quite clearly last Saturday
when a mere handful of loyal supporters stood on the stands in a
drizzling rain and made more noise
than has been made at a Dal rugby
game for’ some time.

There’s a big “Pep Rally” and
dance slated for this evening. at 7.30
in the gymnasium. We want a large
attendance at the “Pow Wow” on the
eve of battle.

The evening will be completed with a danee. You'll have a swell
evening and at the same time acquire a-spirit with which we can’t
be beaten,

Attention
Chess Addicts |

_U.N.B. has sent a letter to the
Students’ Council asking them to
organize a Dalhousie Chess Club
which would take part in competition
between the two colleges. The winners of this series, which, incidentally, would be conducted by correspondence, would then play off with
other universities in Ontario and
Quebec. All chess addicts should
contact President Art Titus at the

Med School.

 

‘between a wharf and a ship.

Night Eclipses Day
In Dramatic “Moot
Court’ Battle

F. S. Martin, K.C., emerged the
victor after a battle royal with R. J.
McCleave, K.C. last Friday afternoon
in the second session of the Supreme
Moot Court of Dalhousie. The case
was an’ appeal fr a decision in
NIGHT vs DAY. Night nearly broke
his neck one night when he walked
over a plank placed by Day one day

McCleave stood up eying the bench
with a steely glint in his cold, grey
eyes and started to congratulate
their lordships on their elevation to
the bench. But then came the thunder and the lightning. McCleave was
felicitating Mr. Justice Clancy on
bringing woman’s native intuition
and humor on the bench, and adding
that the whole assemblage agreed
with him. But Lord Justice Clancy
doubted his veracity and asked for
an expression. of assent .from the
court at which McCleave immediately
turned around to the courtroom and
said, “Will someone please whistle
at Mr. Clancy”. Somebody obligingly provided the desired expression of
assent with a long low suggestive
whistle and Mr. Clancy blushed and
was satisfied with McCleave’s integrity.

McCleave knew his law on the
subject and had some very good
cases to support his contention. His
argumentative style was generally
pompous but aside from that it was
good.

Martin, K.C. really got down to
eases right from the start. Nervous at first, his argument was clever,
comprehensive and clearcut, and
showed a lot of hard work and
preparation.

The bench was composed of L. C.
J. Matthews, an eminent Nfldr. noted

i)

ce. : 2: a
a nt a a

   

crowd in attendance with representatives from many points in the province,

At around 10.30 p.m. the music of
Joe Morgan was interrupted for the
purpose of presenting a short, but
timely entertainment. The program
afforded much enjoyment and consisted of three soloists—each rendering her numbers in a very pleasing
manner and receiving much applause

from the appreciative audience,
Lauretta Dickinson sang “I’m In
Love With Vienna” and “Kiss Me

Again” (to which request our ever
co-operative chairman complied);
Libby Guy, a new comer to Dal’s
music circle, sweetly rendered “My
Hero” and “When You’re Away” followed by Evelyn Burns, singing “One
Kiss” and “Gypsy And The Birds”.
A dancing routine was done by Barbara Lynch, but the highlight of the
evening centered around Fit.-Set.
Billy McGee, the great magician.
His magic completely mystified the
crowd and also astounded Sheffman
when he realized his power of concentration,

$30 in Prizes To Be
Given for Best Yells

For the three best yells the Students’ Council will give a total of
$30 prize money. Entries may be
submitted to the Gazette Office or
to either Jack Boudreau or Alex
Farquhar. Yells will be judged on
quality, rhythm and originality.

Ist ‘PRS. cat os <8 $15.00
BU WEIZO ss sige ve
Or! WEG asc cs os

 

for his beautiful diction, L. J. Redden, a famous duck-hunter and educationalist from Prince Edward
Island, and Lord Justice Clancy, who
concealed himself in a long black
robe. Rumour has it that Lord Justice Clancy was in reality a woman
masquerading as a man. Of course
such things are unprintable and we
shall say no more about it.

The Chief Justice decided that
McCleave should be entitled to judgment because he had a case that hit
the nail right on the nose. Justice
Claney applied a theory to the case
which was revolutionary and without
precedent and decided for Martin.
Justice Reddin also dissented from

(continued on page two)

 

 

“The service exists to provide
blood for the production of Dried
Serum ready for emergency transfusions to those of His Majesty’s
Forees or civilians who are war
casualties.”

The Dalhousie service was started
last year by the Students’ Council,
and most other universities across
Canada have a similar organization.
Special Dalhousie nights are being
arranged at the Red Cross Blood
Clinic, beginning November 7th, and
students are urged to make them
successful.

Is There Any Danger Involved
in Donating?

sociation is to afford an opportunity
for the undergraduates and graduates to meet one another informally and to cooperate in maintaining.
the ancient Dalhousie spirit. A committee of the Association is preparing an informal programme to which
both graduates and undergraduates
will contribute. Music and unrationed refreshments will be liberally
provided.

CALL FOR TALENT
Actors, singers, dancers, ete.!!
Why not contact Harry Zappler, 23
Henry St. within the next few days.
Something’s pending in the entertainment field...

 

No. The names of students who

 

 

 

DALHOUSIE INSTITUTE OF
PUBLIC OPINION

DIP

(For further inquiries by our roving reporter see our new feature,
“Vox Discipuli”’, appearing on page three of this issue.) ;

Realizing that self-criticism is the best road to advancement and
progress, D.1.P.0. decided to ask this question, ““‘What Is Wrong With The
Gazette?” Most people thought that The Gazette this yéar was pretty
good, in fact that it was better than those of the last two years. However,
all students queried had some criticisms and suggestions to make. Many
don’t like the literary page. They think it is too literary and are definitely
against the idea of having serials appear in The Gazette. Instead, they
would like some short stories and poems. One student thought that we
should have editorials on politics.

Nearly everybody thought that The Gazette should have more campus
gossip. Students want to know all the dirt around the campus and they
want to see it in print. They think that it will make the paper more congenial and chummy and suggest that we institute a Grime Sheet, a former
popular feature of The Gazette. Students think that Campus Clippings is
good, but they think that there should be more jokes in it rather than
newsy items from other campuses.

Engineers wanted more space devoted to T-Square. All students
thought that the Sport page was certainly the greatest improvement in
this year’s Gazette. It is much better and much more comprehensive than
in previous years.

The Gazette appreciates these criticisms and we shall try to satisfy
as many people as possible. D.I.P.0. consulted with the Editor-in-Chief
on this question and he agreed that we should have poems and short
stories, but he says that people do not submit any to The Gazette, and if
students won’t write them we can’t very well print them. Campus Clippings will change its complexion and it will be funnier in future. We do
not intend to run any editorials on politics. You get enough of them in
newspapers and magazines, and besides, The Gazette is non-partisan
politically.

If students want campus dirt, then we shall take steps to give it to
them. The Gazette has tentative plans for running a March of Grime
column in the near future. We welcome constructive criticism at all times
from students. If you have any suggestions for D.I.P.0., please leave
them either at the Gazette office or at the Law School. If you want the
student’s opinion on any question, tell your D.I.P.0. reporter. A. S.

 

 
  

 
 

Me a cea a
JIM McLAREN (4-2236) |

Features . Litera
BOB McCLEAVE JOHN HIBBITTS
Sports

Photography
ALEX FARQUHAR ERROL MacDONALD

a Paha gy BILL MINGO

J Cartoous
R. TUCK
. Reportorial
aa T ‘SAFFRON LOU COLLINS ©
MAN JA SIDEL AL LOMAS

: MaeDONALD GRAHAM BATT (C.U.P.) JACK NICHOLSON

Business Manager
FRED MARTIN (38-5036)

| THE NEED IS GREAT

7 _ Bvery hour of every day, press and radio bring us fresh

. of Allied victories and Axis defeats in the varied

: eatres of war—news which has given rise to a false feeling of

yp tin ism here on the home front. We are inclined to feel that

ena is all but won and that further contributions to the

- cause of victory would be so much wasted effort.

We forget that casual disinterest on our part will have the

hi he severest repurcussions on the battle line. Especially is this true
of the rca of “blood plasma” supplies from this side of the

. ao i “The greatest battles of the war are now being fought.
"Casualties are heavy. Thousands of wounded servicemen have
oS _ been saved through the use of blood serum. But if we allow rosy
| ae ewspaper headlines to cloud our vision of reality, thousands
i Be more will die. There must be no slackening in our nation’s
blood donor service as long as the need exists.
a The Dalhousie Blood Donor Society has inaugurated its
: for the year. If approached by a member of the
t be quick to answer the call. Although university
is preparing us for tomorrow, we must not shirk the responsibil ities. of today. The need is great, the effort small and the
time for action, NOW.
Remember .. WHAT WE WON’T MISS, THEY DIE

A “ROUND TABLE” FOR YOUTH

Some weeks ago a group was organized on the Dal campus
Ars to submit a report on Health Insurance to the regional confere ence of the Canadian Youth Commission. Chairmaned by Abe
 Sheffman, a nucleus of enthusiasts delved into the whys and
-wherefores of the situation and subsequently submitted their
views for ratification. The report was given unanimous approval
_by conferees assembled from all parts of the province.

e _ This initial group of the Youth Commission has since been
2 absorbed i in a student organization called “The Dalhousie Round
_ Table”, which meets periodically to discuss the varied problems
of present-day and post-war Canada.

_  Bystimulating a frank, open discussion of current problems,
. national and international, Dalhousians are expressing a longi nt interest in Canada’ s future—a future in which youth

i 1% Dur sincere congratulations and best wishes to the DalIs. “house Round Table.

“WHAT IS A
UNIVERSITY EDUCATION?”

“members of the Dalhousie teaching staff)

 

“The surest mark of a University education is a proper understanding of what is meant by a University and by education. The
ability to acquire and remember facts, and the store of information
_ thus acquired, are not in themselves education; but they are a neces_ sary ‘foundation for it. This foundation should be laid in the schools;
_ but on this continent the first two years are too often devoted to
_ work which can be done better by the high schools, and which hinders and obscures the true function of university training
The English universities can specialize from the beginning.
Those of North America, trying to ensure an adequate general foundation, are obliged in the first two years to cover too much territory.
; _ Many of them, even in so-called Honour courses, try to cover too
; ; : ~ much in the later years, forgetting that scattering has more than a
| ‘ahyeang connection with smattering. It has been said that “If a
man knows something about everything, he» knows nothing about
eh F heictns: but if he knows everything about something, he knows
Ria Es something about everything.” The “something about everything”
Bite, - belongs chiefly to the schools. ‘The “everything about something”
F for those who have the desire and the ability to get it, should be the
concern of the University.
oa _Some of our “students” think that they are itersag a favour
are they appear willing to be taught; they should have the will to
anes. A university should be a closed corporation restricted to
those” who want it for what it is, and who would not, for the time
being, change it for any other way of life.
There should be an association of free and active itty. with
the give and take of intellectual debate and of social converse, teaching young men and women to match and modify their beliefs and
_ opinions against those of others without animosity and without sub_ Servience. There should be agreeable surroundings, and oppor_ tunity for pleasant and healthful sports and pastimes, with less
~ attention to money, show, and competition. There should be leisure
©: Pe. talk, and the countryside for walking; but if this last requires
3 a an alteration of the University almanac or of our northeastern
Zz a mate, I will accept a compromise at Dalhousie with indoor swimae ps waing pools and skating rinks.
k HS Berita? Arts and science, law and siodicine, athletics and debate, comoy “merce. and engineering: the modern university is equipped to enable
_ | many men to learn many things. Its variety makes its essential
- quality—universality; but a common means and a common goal
lg eit also unity. For the one lesson, common to all others
nd above them all, that we can learn from a University, is how
at ees agit we can face life. C. L. BENNET,

* Department of English. 
ra
= i
Pee
<a

    
   
  
   
     
   
   
   
  
   

“a Ps
Ae

~ Ba
yt me ge
a. E

a

 
     
    
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
    
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
  

Oscar Wilde--Genius of Exile

AN APPRECIATION

Ill-informed and prejudiced biographers and critics, and well meaning
but badly advised friends have enveloped the name and the works of
Osear Wilde with a false atmosphere of dark mystery tinged with evil.
In an endeavour to dispel these absurdities we have written this article,
neither to defend nor to blame Wilde, but to present to Dalhousie the
true worth of his genius.

Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wills Wilde was born in Dublin, Ireland,
in 1854, the son of the famous surgeon Sir William Wilde and Jane Elgee,
After attending the Portora Royal School, and Trinity College, winning
prizes in classics and scriptures at both, he entered Magdalen College,
Oxford. His ambition was to be a writer. He won the Newdigate prize
for poetry with his poem “Ravena”. This last honor assured him of easy
access to the London publishers when he began to write.

The London which Wilde entered at the conclusion of his studies was
saturated with bigoted Victorian morality, an easy mark for the ridicule
of a man of wit. This order of society was, however, being shaken to
its Ioundations by numerous political and moral radicals, particularly
among the youth.

Wilde’s erratic dress and critically aesthetic attitude soon made him
conspicuous among these malcontents. However, his irresistable wit and
novel and brilliant conversation found him favor in the midst of that
very capitalistic society that he ridiculed. For Wilde was always greatest
as a conversationalist, and therefore the greatest fruits of his genius are
lost to us forever. Nevertheless, it was not long before, with poems and
essays, Wilde was making his name known in the realm of letters. In
his poetry, which was good, theugh never great, he revealed his romantic
spirit, his craving for liberty; in his essays, particularly ‘““The Soul of Man
Under Socialism”, he showed his idealistic conception of the world as he
would have it. Although at first the conventional critics attacked Wilde
viciously, soon, despite the scandal created by his so-called immoral novel,
“The Picture of Dorian Gray”, he became recognized as the leading
literary figure of the day and as the arbitrator of criticism. As his seintillating, brilliantly witty comedies appeared in rapid succession, his
fame and his wealth grew apace, and he became universally recognized
as the greatest English dramatist of the nineteenth century. He could go
no higher and as he must perforce go on, his fall was inevitable.

Accus2d of immoral crimes, too odious to menticn, Wilde was hurlcd
from his summit by the long suppressed hatred of horrified Victorian
English justice. The greatest genius of his age, Oscar Wilde was sentenced to two years of imprisonment for a crime which any beggar on
the streets could commit without fear of a greater penalty than a nominal fine. Within the gloomy walls of Reading Gaol, the flame of Wilde’s
genius sank to an ember and the weird reflections of this ember were cast
upon the world in one of the greatest works of prose of the English
language, “De Profundis”. On his release, fanned by the breath of freedom, his genius rose again, expressed in the passionate “Ballad of Reading Gaol” before it sank again and was extinguished by his death in 1900.

Exiled from his country during the last few years of his life, Wilde
suffered severely enough even for his hideous crime. Even after his death,
the hypersensitive public held his memory in loathing. They went too
far, however. They confused the degenerate man with his invaluable art.
The brilliant works of Oscar Wilde remained in complete obscurity for
many years. Even today, in this supposedly liberal and enlightened age,
although his works again enjoy large-scale publication they are frowned
upon, practically ignored by the critics and the scholars of this country.
We call for an end to this ridiculous attitude, for it is ourselves, and not
Oscar Wilde, who will suffer from our ignorance of his work which is
entertaining when not profound, beautiful if not conventional. Though
Wilde’s philosophy is weak, it repersents, nonetheless, a large school of
thought and cannot be overlooked. Furthermore, inysuch works as “De
Profundis”, the better poems and the beautiful fairytales, which ring with
greater sincerity than the plays, Wilde reveals that he was theoretically
as great a moralist as those who persecuted him. We ask that Wilde the
religious poet, Wilde the prison reformer, Wilde the penitent philosopher
be remembered, as well as Wilde the degenerate. Then,
admires Lord Byron, surely Oscar Wilde can be tolerated.
our word for it, read Wilde yourselves.
and judge.

BLOOD DONORS— Fat in the blood stream makes the
(Continued from page 1) | plasma cloudy, and your donation
nate will not be allowed to do so. A| Will be useless.
few (about one person in twenty)| Last year we had 145 donors at
may feel slightly dizzy, but after ly-|the first two clinics. This year we
ing down for a short time, this will|want to do better than that. So
pass off and they will feel as wWell|come on, let’s do our
as ever. Coffee’ and biscuits are | part.

in an age which
But do not take
That is what we ask. Read him
LATEMUS.

Dalhousie,

served to the donors.
How Often Should Donations
Be Made?

Only once before Christmas. After
Christmas we hope to hold clinics
early in January and again in March
to enable students to obtain their
blood donor badges. These are given
after making three donations, and
are attractive badges that you will
be proud to wear. Names of all donors will be published in the Gazette.
How Much Blood Is Taken?

A maximum of 400 ¢.c. (less than
a pint), but this varies with the individual, as some may not be able,
in the doctor’s opinion, to donate as
much as this.

What Is the Special Blood
Donor Meal?

It is important to refrain from
eating fats (butter, whole milk,
cream, eggs, bacon, etc.) for dinner
or supper on the day of your clinic.

“WHAT YOU WON’T MISS,
THEY DIE WITHOUT.”

 

NIGHT ECLIPSES DAY—
(Continued from page 1)

the judgment of the Lord Chief Justice and decided for Mr. Martin.

Allan “The Kid” Butler wanted to
get framed, so he signed his name to
Sheffman’s wormlike scrawls which
he explained to the court was shorthand. However, the bench took no
judicial notice of Butler’s antics and
peace was restored after the conspirators Feeney and Sheffman were
judicially separated. Caught gossiping and giggling during the proceedings, Gazetteers McLaren and Mingo
were ordered to supplement the
dwindling smoking supplies of their
Lordships.

N.B.—Will someone tell’ Clancy

that the plural of “foot” is feet and
not “feets”.

More men smoke Picobac

than any other Pipe Tobacco

in Canada

THE

Rosedale Nurseries

HALIFAX DARTMOUTH

381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 Spring Garden Rd. H-2200

Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran.

 

a
TV no eee en

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE
73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who do not desire a complete course in any
of the Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND AND TYPEWRITING

will be valuable aid in future years

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

 

Halhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B-Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Musie, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leadi
wd Wiper I gni g, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the
courses.

The Professional Faculties

n
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $1
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a ae ut $160 a year,
Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.

 

 
  
 
       

>

Ps
4

r

«

A

‘i

!

  
    
  
  
  
    
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
 
   
 
   
 
    
  
  
  
   
    
    
        
 
     
 
      
       
       
        
 
 
        
     
      
         
 
   
     
   
    
 
   
   
   
    
 
  
  
   
   
     
  
   
   
  
    
 
   
  
    

ir
|

: a

ba

SS Ne

hs

i >

    

4 r
+
1

*
it
, te

   
  
    
  
    
  
  
  
 

  
  
   
    
   
     

‘college.

P= dia, etc.

with the brains we ‘of Dal.

Rs a very individualistic college.

 

SCIPULI

a "Bstablished in conjunction with

D. EP. O.

_ (In this issue we are introducing an entirely new feature).

Question: What do you think of
college spirit at Dalhousie?

“Answers:
Kenny Faulkner (Engineering *47 )
—‘I think it is pretty poor. The

students don’t turn out in a body to
watch the games and they don’t show

any spirit. I guess it- should improve with the new Frosh class. The
spirit here is even worse than at
Q.E.H. They should have a real organized pep rally and bring out some
new yells.”

Blair Dunlop (Arts & Science '47)
—The lack of spirit is not the students’ fault. It is the situation of the
Any time there’s a basket
ball game on, theres’ always something better on somewhere else.
They need a better turnout for the
games. College sport should come
before any outside attractions. I
think interfaculty sport should be
stressed too, and I made B—in my
last two themes.”

Liz Reeves (Arts *47)—‘Dalhousie
has lots of spirit, but not the kind
we want. Everyone goes out and
yells their heads of. But do they
yell our famous (7?) old U-pi-dee?
Oh no! They yell their old school
yells—Q.E.H., Mt. A., St. F.X., AcaI suppose it is because
these yells have snap to them—so
brag
about why don’t we write a few yells
that will be really worth shouting
about, and deserving of our teams

which have made a definitely fine

show with a minimum of support.”

me Art Hartling (Arts ’45)—“I think

pr

college spirit this year is the highest it has ever been for many years.
With a few good pep rallys we could

really get the upper classmen en_ thusiastic.

As president of the Glee
Club, etc. etc., 1 will be available at
any time to help the committee out

> i in this important work. Let’s hope
we get some real good yells when the
"contest opens.”

Fred Martin, (Law °*46)—‘“‘In my

~ opinion we shall never have a college
‘spirit comparable to that in the oth
er Canadian universities until we

have a men’s residence on the Cam
‘pus. That is among the most out- ostanding needs in a post-war university program — meantime, the

"men being in the majority, perhaps
we should take over Shirreff Hall.”

Fred Taylor, (Law *47)—“If any
thing is wrong with Dalhousie Col
ege Spirit, it may be that the stud‘ents are fully occupied in maintain
ing the high scholastic record of the
“University, and have not as much

time to spend on the so-caleld “extra
curricular activities” of which other

 olleges in the Maritimes, of a lower

standard, boast. Esprit de corps
may not develop to the extent one
‘might wish because the University
4s divided between two camps with
the students of one rarely meeting
those of the other.

Graham Batt, (Law ’47)—‘“College
‘spirit is lacking at Dalhousie, because INDIVIDUALISM is the very
root of the idea behind Dalhousie.

- The first impression that a stranger

to the university gets, is that Dal is
This
‘is contributed to by the fact that a

large part of the student body is en
‘rolled in professional faculties. The

great majority of the students are so

‘intent in forwarding their own personal ambitions that either they have
no time for, or simply cannot- be

bothered with taking an active part

, 1

in college activities.”

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

| Fader’s Drug Stores|

Nova Scotia

    
  
     

   
 
 
 

   

(Dalhousie Organ of Puerile Enigmas)

 

QUESTION:

Blissfully unaware of any controversial discussions that might arise
from this question, we, in all our bland innocence, trotted happily around

WHAT DO YOU, LIKE TO DO AT A PARTY?

the campus to see what might be gleaned. Our first interview occurred

with Gwen Satchel, perpetual Freshette. Her answer was illuminating.
Crossing her shapely legs (she happened to be sitting at the time), and
putting a cigarette to her lips, she gazed at us for a time without speaking. Squirming under her direct gaze, we tried in vain to shift the subject. Gwennie finally remarked, “Why boys, haven’t you any idea?
Wouldn’t you like to take me to a party. and see?” Bashfully, for our
tongues were hanging out, we murmured something about Math. 34, and
removed ourselves from her presence. However, with our next questionee,
our masculine dominance arose. Grabbing a few breaths of fresh air on
the library steps was Mary Quite, Arts ’47, and when we posed the query,
she was delighted to give her opinion. “I like to talk and talk and talk”,
she declared, damming the ready flow of verbiage that came from her
tuby lips. “I like to meet a nice boy, and get settled comfortably in a
secluded corner, with the lights turned low, and just talk,” she stated with
an unconscious air of anti-climax. “You’d be surprised at the conversations we have. I met the sweetest boy in English 9 the other day, and
we talk and talk and talk about Xenophon and Senecanism, and all sorts
of thrilling topics. Why, just the other night—”, but before she could
get further we thrust a copy of “Forever Amber” into her hands and left.
In desperation, we turned on an innocent young Engineer standing agape.
He blushed, and tied himself into knots before he got the words out.
“T-I-I- ]-l-l-like to f-f-f-f-f-orget where I-I-I-I- am an’—aw, nuts, I like to
neck!” Well! We stood there aghast at the new spirit of Dalhousiana
before us, and then, belatedly, it occurred to us, that we did, too! L’amour!
Liamour! You’d be dead without it!

 

Another deep mystery is the reason for Dick Moulton’s staying out
some nights as late as 9.30. As
Louie says, still waters run fast.

 

The favorite drafting room speculation these days is whether Dick
Currie is really Shorty Faulkner’s
“old man”. The master burper of
them all had nothing on this young
upstart, who occasionally lets loose
with a stomach-curling noise he
terms “the burper’s mating call’.

Last week we reported how the
visits of former students had delighted all Engineers. Please note
one exception, namely, “Lips” Yeadon, who awaited Swain’s arrival
with gleom rather than glee. ~Don’t
ask for an explanation; it is one! Highlight of the entertainment
angle of the eternal triangle which | provided last week by the Drawing
has our mathematical brain trust}1 lab was the bout between Don
stumped. Purchase’s elbow and Blackie the Ink
Bottle. The scene, a nearly completed plate; the winner, right elbow by
a knockover, with Blackie down for
the spill. Move over, Kipper.

Though the University has not
agreed to give Profanity 1 the status
of a bana fide modern language, the
Mechanics 3 class has decided to instruct any members suffering from
a deficiency. Unfortunately, no outsiders are allowed, but witness Proc:
he has already reached the “Oh,
fiddlesticks!”’ stage, and the sky’s
the limit.

AW, LET HER DREAM! The
rain was something awful, everyone

 
  
   
 

THE silky strokes you
get from MIRADO’S
smooth lead will make
you purr like a contented cat. You won’t
be ee by broken
pe O will

off your mind and on
the job—always. It’s,
more than a pleasure, its
a real economy.

5¢ each—less in quantities
Certified with 2 money-back
g#arantee.

    
 

   
    
  
  
 

    
  
   
   

Select Your

    
 
   
     
   
   
    
 

itt Nr

GLE

‘CHEMI-SEALED’ (Super- Bonded)

MIRADO

PENCILS

 
    

 

   
  
 

 

NEW FELT HAT

-- AT EATON’S

A good choice of models at EATON’S!...

the young fellows as well as models for men of more conservative taste.— Visit EATON’S Men’s Wear Department at
your earliest opportunity and make

HATON’S Men’s Wear Department—Main Floor

ence

your selection! HEach..........
| ARE GUARANTEED are
Pita SMOOTHER,
; WEARING
iy om nn BACK < “ EAT

W orkable i. Siccrdied
To Enrich Coffers of University

(Editor’s Note: While the above has not the sanction of any university or student authority, we feel it is meat for consideration).

Suppose there are 150 graduates (normal times) of the
University each year. Suppose that their actual earning powers
should extend over a period of 40 years from graduation. Suppose that each one should make a contribution of $10 to Alma
Mater each year.

That would mean that in the run
of a year, 6,000 people would be
paying $60,000 into the University’s
coffers. Does this sound fantastic?
At the present rates of interest in
investment it would take TWO MILLION dollars to produce _ that
amount of money.

Frankly, the idea is borrowed
from Dr. F. W. Patterson, the president of Acadia University, who
gave an inspiring address to the
Halifax Acadia Club on Tuesday
night, and mooted such a scheme.
He stated that the small gifts and
not the large ones were the most
necessary ot a University.

Can you gainsay this suggestion,
in view of the fact that TWO MILLIONS is not so easily raked out of
the clouds these days.

ORPHEUS

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

“FALCON IN MEXICO”
SAN FERNANDO VALLEY

LATEST PARAMOUNT NEWS

Monday - Tuesday - Wednesday
“THREE OF A KIND”

   

OXFORD

TODAY — SATURDAY
“THE WHITE CLIFFS OF
DOVER”

MONDAY - TUESDAY
“3 MEN IN WHITE”
and
“THE GHOSTBREAKERS”

WEDNESDAY - THURSDAY
“UNCERTAIN GLORY”
“SAILORS HOLIDAY”

Do you know that your University
pays about five-eighths of your education expenses and that even the
hundreds you spend here do not adequately cover the situation.

The answer is obvious. Why not
form a “$10 per year club’ ?—McC,

was soaked, but no one complained.
At last one group»-of feminine lovelies could bear it no longer, jumped
lithely from the stands, and made a
beeline for the Hall. “Take their
names”, kidded the hardy males,
“those girls get no dates!” Far in
their wake trudged a woebegone fugitive from a milk stool, something
Nature had created in one of her
dirty moods. Skinner looked hard;
then, scrunching deeper into his coat,
muttered, “Well there goes another
one we won’t date”. He IS “Witty
these days, no kidding.

Don’t forget, fellows. Horizontal
Club meets at Wolfville, October 28,
As usual, the meeting opens with
“Morphine Bill.” Two men who for
the past two and three years have
been adamant are requesting admis- ¢
sion. So be on hand. Happy Land- s me
ings!

STR SRNR ENeD sed ( aais ana
A DOUBLE TROUBLE

One Siamese twin to another—
You must have had a swell time last
night. I look a wreck today.

  
       
     
    
   
   
 

Styles suitable for

* 3.95 © 10.00

Produced: by

  
  
 

 

  
 
   
     
   
   
     
   
   

 

 

  
   

GARRICK

Wednesday - Thursday - Friday

“MADE FOR EACH OTHER”
“THE YOUNG OF HEART”

   
     
   

   
   

 
 
   
   
    
 
  

  
  
  
    
  

  
   
    
   
  
 

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“ARE THESE OUR PARENTS”

“JOHNNY DOESN’T LIVE
HERE ANY MORE”

CAPITOL

THURS. - FRL - SAT.
Frederic March

   

and

‘Adventures Of
Mark Twain”

*

MON. - TUES. - WED.

Double Indemnity

Fred MacMurray
Barbara Stanwyck

Wescit OQ SE presents

‘ His First Picture Since
GONE WITH THE WIND
and REBECCA

DAVID O. SELZNICK s Directed by JOHN CROMWELL

A. Selznick Maaacel tetas gratia
Released thru United Prine

slatts
SATURDAY

Winner, 1940,
also national criti
best picture of

Award,
poll,
the year, az

 

 

 
 
  
  
  
 
 
     
  

| : ‘By the time most of you read this
se that, as someone is sure to reirk, is taking a Jot for granted)
u will be relaxing comfortably on
om Juxurious cushions of our most
oe ned second class railway coach
   
  
 

Ls

ae

  
  

oF the home of the hospitable Acadians.

__ _ Those who aren’t going, if there be

a e a are showing a decided lack of

in college spirit not at all in keeping
a ae with the current campaign to revive
oe ee: on the campus. They
a will miss a couple of great matches

A / ea a good time as well.

ay x *

_. Tomorrow’s games will be the
a % first of a home and home series beee . ; tween the two universities, Acadia
being sldted to come down here

«sometime towards the end of Nov.

_ This series has no real bearing on
the intercollegiate playdowns as yet
but should Dalhousie remain unde feated, it will qualify them to play
off for the Maritime title with either

St. F. X. or U.N.B. The Intermedi
| ates are playing purely exhibition

  
   
 
   
  
  

w “4

 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
    
 

é football and they won’t see anybody.

 

' but the Axemen.

* * *

Due to the casualties sustained
_—s our «first two encounters, Coach
| Burnie Ralston has made some last
‘minute changes in his lineup, shifting Art Burgess from the scrum to
the three-quarter line, and promoting Bell. This will make the weak
intermediate scrum even weaker,
and place more responsibility on the
shoulders of Graves, Fraser, Dunlop B., and little Brice Burgess in
the backfield.

   

  

   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

*  *

  

Having finally surmounted preliminary difficulties, and there seem to
have been quite a number of them,
the soccer department has arranged
a match with the Fleet Air Arm this
afternoon on the campus at 5.30 p.m.
_ There yet remains some doubt as to
just who will carry the colors of the
gold: and black into action, but the
_ three Feannys, Doug Clarke, and Jim
ik McLaren will be out for certain.
_ They would like to pass along the
____-word that practices are every Tuesday and Thursday at twelve; all interested are expected to turn out.

* *

  
    
    
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 

     
      
       
    
       
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
     
   
  

Incidentally, here is some information for those who contend that Dal_housie doesn’t rate when it comes to
athletics. At the moment we are
tied with the Navy for first place
in the City League with two wins
and no losses. And Bobbie MacDonald is away out on top of the
individual scoring list with twelve
points.

PROF. MERCER ELECTED—
(Continued from page 1)

_ no to the seniors: but agreed to let
_ the.intermediate participate. In conclusion, Vice-President Blair Dunlop
set Oct. 31 as the date for the opening game in interfaculty football.

A Word of Welcome

  

Birks extend to newcomers and returning
students a cordial welcome to bring their
gift problems to Birks.

 
     
      
         
      
      

Come and visit =
even if you have no
problem.

y Birks & Sons
LIMITED

‘Registered Jeweller
_ American Gem Society

| Barrington St. Halifax, N.S.

 
 

Rs "es, speeding (!) towards Wolfville,

Fleet Sunk

INTRODUCING
No.1 ‘NAIL-UP’ BOY

sion sixteen hours hence into

This is the game the boys

ous annals of past competition.

There will be some changes in the
squad that you will see run out on
Raymond Field tomorrow afternoon.
Adam “Legs” Smith, a flying half
that really flies, broke his ankle in
last Saturday’s match and is through
with football for the season. His
place will likely be filled by Kev
Carten, a med student who has just
recently turned out for practices. A
veteran, especially as the term has
to be used nowadays, Carten performed in the seniors last year and
the year before.

Pete Flynn, suffering from an injured thigh, won’t be back either,
and Coach Ralston will juggle his
line up a bit, alternating Bob Knight,
Vic Clarke and Lew Bell among the
three-quarters. Whatever happens,
the boys have two victories and no
defeats under their belts and, should
it rain tomorrow, the outcome will
never be in doubt.

For the elements were out again

 

Bobby MacDonald (A.D. 1936)

Along with the Dal team Bob play- |
ed a stellar role on the St. Mary’s
junior team which was the Nova}
Scotia runner-up for the title.

This year Bob is really going to
town on the senior football team, |
having scored most of the team’s)
points to date, and being a tower of
strength on the defensive. As tailup in the scrum he is on the ball
all the time and with his speed and
aggressiveness is always in there
fighting. Our Blond Bomber really
hit the jackpot against St. Mary’s.
in the first game of the season
when he crossed the Irish line three
times. In the game of last Saturday he garnered Dal’s only try and
right now is leading the City Rugby
league in scoring. In the forthcoming game against Acadia tomorrow we expect that Bob will be a
sharp¥*thorn in the side’ of the
Axemen. We are looking forward
with interest to the hockey season |

Here he is girls: It’s what you
have all been waiting for; a picture
of our golden-haired football hero—
Bob MacDonald. Yes sir, here is the
picture of the lad who is the scoring ball of fire on this year’s Tigers.
Strictly a Halifax boy, Bob came
here from *Q.E.H.S. last year on
scholarship, standing high in school
studies as well as in the school athleties.

This second year student, with
the winning personality and unf&ssuming manner, has won the hearts
of a host of Dal students—not excluding the girls. Bob’s ambition is
to. be a doctor and so we expect to
see him star on Dal teams for some
years to come.

And now a little data on his athletic career. He started in common
school and starred both on the gridiron and on the ice for numerous
school teams including Tower Road,
Halifax Academy and  Q.E.H.S.
Last year Bob was the outstanding
player on the Dal Cubs and was a
prolific scorer on the hockey team. | the blades.

 

Tonight our Tigers are stalking about impatiently, gnashing their teeth and snarling in eager anticipation of their inva
where they are slated to engage Fred Kelly’s
in the first of a home and home series.

when we expect our own Bob Mac-| Bell,
Donald to~have a bang-up year on|Feanny, Ernest, A. Burgess, D. Dun
  
  
  

By Seniors

the stronghold of the Wolves,
arrogant Axemen

have long waited for, because

Acadia, although not in the local league this year, is an old
rival of ours, and the renewal of ancient hostilities foreshadows the inscription of fresh deeds of valour into the glori
Also they would like the trip.
last Saturday in an attempt to surpass their record of the previous
week, battering the players, the field
and the spectators with penetrating
blasts of sheer aqua. But the Tigers,
feeling comfortable, no doubt, in wet
weather by then, were equal to the
occasion and out-slopped their opponents, the Fleet Air-Arm, 5—40.

Blonde Bobbie MacDonald again
demonstrated his spectacular scoring
ability when, near the end of the
first half, he led a dribbling rush
down center, galloped through the
flyers’ backfield, keeping the ball always in front of himself, and finally
dived on it behind the goal line. In
spite of the wet leather and a poor
angle, Feanny followed with a beautiful convert to net the final two
points.

The score just about indicates the
play, for Dalhousie enjoyed a slight
territorial advantage in both halfs.
Yet the Dartmouth boys were by no
means a pushover, and the issue was
never definite until the last whistle
had sounded.

It was a forwards game through
and through, the ball being too slippery for any successful passing, .although plenty was tried. The play

| was- characterized by frequent kicks

and numerous rushes, in which the
pack shoved the ball up.and down
the field with their feet.

Casualties were heavy, one man
from each side having to be carried
off in the first half—Smith for Dal
with a broken ankle, and Raffles for
the flyers with injured abdomen
muscles. The latter squad, having
no substitutes, displayed their good
sportsmanship in carrying right on
with the play.

The college cheering section, or
what there was of it, was very ably
led by Nancy Wilson and Jack Boudreau.

Dalhousie: Wade, Griffin, Knight,
Farquhar, Smith, MacKenzie,

lop, Lund, MacDonald, Clarke.

 

fi Have a Coca-Cola=Tell us s_all about it

i

as

Naat

Ta i i il i

0 OV fevall) way to greet an ace pilot

There’s many a thrill connected with showing a trophy from a
Nazi plane. And along with renewal of home ties comes the
welcome revival of an old custom. “Have a Coke”, says the proud
father, and the family reunion is complete over frosty Coca-Cola
from the family icebox. From the fighting fronts to the home
fireside, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes—the pleasant
symbol that helps bring folks closer together.
The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

Qi

    
   

 
 

It's natural for popular names
to acquire friendly abbreviations, That's why ou hear
Coca-Cola called Coke", 679

 

 

First Encounter
For Intermediates

After several weeks as training
horses for the Senior Tigers, Dalhousie Intermediate Cubs will take
the field for the first game against
the Acadia Hatchetmen tomorrow
at Raymond Field. The boys are in
top shape and will stone for their
lack of skill in sheer fighting spirit.
Their most dominant asset is high
standard of tackling, an essential
feature in the game of football.
The scrum is plenty heavy and the
backfield is very speedy,

Last season’s Cubs, for the first
time in many years, defeated the
Acadia seconds and are out to repeat this year. The intermediate
game will precede the senior fray
and thus you are privileged to see
two exciting games during your sojourn at the valley town.

Tentative line-up includes: Fullback: Julian Bloomer; Backfield:
Zen Graves, B. Burgess, Art Lightfoot, Lew Bell, Ted LeBlanc, Blair
Dunlop, Ken Fraser and Allan
Kenty. In the serum: Ralph Cooley,
Mike Waterfield, John Meakin, Don
Kerr, Cyril Morgan and Clarke.

Come on you people give these
lads a break and get out there and
cheer them to victory. And remember if you get there early you will
epic battle between the two senior
have a good seat which to view the
squads.

 

FLASH

D.G.A.C. ground hockey team defeated H.L.C. 1-0 in an exhibition
game yesterday afternoon.

YOUR SUITS

= October 27, “1944

Tieton’

HOW TO
PLAY FOOTBALL

(No. 3 in a Series by B. A.Ralston)

HOW TO PASS (con.)

Never pass to a player who is in
a worse position than you are. If
an opponent should happen to be
between you and that player, you
may get over the difficulty by lobbing it just over his head so that it
falls into the hand of your own man,
but it would probably be safer to go
on with the ball yourself and prevent an interception. It may perhaps be even a good policy in such
a case to do what is called ‘giving
the dummy’, that is, you go through
all the actions of passing the ball
but, retaining it yourself, rush off
in another direction. If this position arises, however, it is almost
certain that the player in possession
has gone too far before passing.

Sign of a Bad Player

A wild pass is the sign of an inferior player. Be sure of yourself
and watch the man to whom you
are passing. You will find that it is
easier to pass to the left when your
left foot is forward, as in this position you are able to turn the body
slightly in the direction the pass is
intended to go. Players’ should
support the man with ball and be
in a position to receive a pass. In
receiving the ball both hands and
arms should be used by the receiver,
the ball being allowed to fall into
the cup formed by them. The receiver should be almost in a line
with the passer, just a shade behind. Otherwise the passer will
have to slow up.

Cole Favored
To Retain Title

In two short decisive sets Phil

Cole, twice winner of the Dal tennis
singles’ crown, smashed his way
through sophomore Gordie Feron
6-0, 6-0 to gain a berth in the finals
against either Blair Dunlop or Alfie
Cunningham.
In previous matches Dunlop defeated
Creighton 6-2, 6-2, and Cunningham
ousted Bill Pove 6-4, 2-6, 7-5. Congratulations are in order for Professor Mercer, for without his splendid
organizing and zealous persistence,
there would be not tennis at Dalhousie, this year or any other.

 

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish
lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
—send what you have to Cousins often.

 

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*

 

 
