  

 
   

     

- The Big Month
. or WHY SO MANY TAKE ENGINEERING
po ROA BOR A YEAR

t '

( With a transit on his shoulder, his manly chest bared to
. the elements and softly humming “Oh All the Boys Have Left
the Bay”, the “perfect profile” of the Dal Engineer broke into
- sight on the fair horizon of Truro. Elaborately_ equipped with
” compasses, maps and a natural mating instinct, it was not long
before the engineers fought their way over the Salmon River
| t Flats (area 7.86’acres), crossed a bridge (176 feet long), tra_-versed a field, vaulted a wire fence and sauntered nonchalantly
into Truro.

| . The way they came back a 0
~~ ferent story. Waters camé bac
ae supported by Kinley, Kinley came IN SYMPATHY
- back suported by a strict upbringing To Professor D. C. and Mrs.
: ‘and a fear of God, ‘Newfie’ Clarke, Harvey, The Gazette, on behalf
Stig having enjoyed the advantages of the student — near oY
Cheatian Ser cet a3 sincerest sympathy on the sudden
io eee aul death of their son, William. Prior

¢ / k. y
) Hae es, Draftsmen to his enlistment in the R.C.N.
canthig : + i ttended DalSome of the St. Mary’s boys, find- || V-R+ Bill Harvey a
ee es hee f housie for two years, taking an

| ing diversion at the camp, in the
me ier | s dent interest in Glee Club and
Oh ds and apple |] 4" eeu
| form of apple jack, cards and app other campus activities.

) jack, were quite content to sit by
The Backward Bow Of

\*. their fires ; but the Dal boys, scorn| | ing such dull evenings, demanded
Robbie MacCleave
Wherever collegians gather to ab
song with their wine, and women

_ with their song. Unfortunately the
sorb the wisdom of America’s Oldest
College Newspaper, inevitably one

  

ie

   
  

:

     
       
  

   

seemed to throw a damper on such
activities and had it not been for
» Anne (I say this with reverence)

| of the bowling alley and the girls

i of the five and ten, many the poor
-_- Jad would have had little inspiration
for his work and would have been
doomed to nights of crying in his
beer. As it was, the ingenuity of
_ the engineers was tried to the utmost, and even brains like Stewart
; failed to see how two girls,
“Smithy”, Tilley, Shields, Blakeney,
‘Chapman and Stewart could pile into one seat at Dirty Joes.

These two girls, better known as
Helen and Rosie, were exposed to
merciless attacks from Graves,
Skinner and company, who would
periodically tear themselves away
from their books, rush to the house
top and give forth with the mating
eall of all true sons of Adam.

But much to the surprise and
pleasure of the Dartmouth boys,
those aforesaid wolves, Skinner and
_ Graves, seemed to lose much of their
effect when off their own tramping

ground. Even a numerous display

of D’s, large and small, failed to
_ impress the Truro lassies, who had
_ no interest in higher education, and
soon associated with the “D” a none
too complimentary name.

The more adventurous of the
group, Bloomer, “Newfie” Clarke,
and Ralph Clarke sojourned to the
woods for a little corn boil—and
were these boys allergic to corn!

Much Work, Little Effort

On the whole the camp proved a
success. Almost everyone managed
to get through a maximum of work
with a minimum of effort. On those
pleasant September days the boys
»% would gallop wildly over the green

fields, measuring an angle here,
_ taking an elevation there, and finally
after a hard days work they would
trudge sadly home, scab up their

work and proceed to brag of their
+, amazing accuracy. We have cherish' ed memories of days spent eating
cow-corn under the shade of a
leveled instrument; or Howard mn fi

Z Dee cefully reclining while Gray at- cleanlny shaven, we departed from

tempted to read a compass which|Truro much wiser, very tired and
got more attraction from his glasses | glad to leave.

= + a '
bait Og

” proximity of the Debert camp

read that Rufus Rayne stuff?” usually followed by “Who’s the queer
that writes it?” We do not endorse
the above terms; spoken without
‘consideration, they are perhaps inappropriately mild. Such is the disturbance created, however, we shall
offer the puzzled non-readers some
enlightenment on the second of these
queries.

Robert J. MacCleave came to
Dalhousie too few years ago. The
Registrar at the time, Professor
Murray MacNeil, was noted for his
faith in human nature and for his
kindly attitude to freshmen; sensing
that here would be the logical
choice for the ‘Typical Freshman,’
he allowed the boy to register
against what we hope was his better judgment. And indeed, at first
the confidence was not misplaced.
MacCleave rose rapidly in the weird
Gazette-Sodales circle, until in 1942
the leaders thereof considered him
ready to become Editor-in-Chief of
the Gazette. But from this point
on the MacCleave saga reads like
the story of the fallen angels. In
one of his first efforts he printed a
sketch of his birthplace as the
model for the new Navy building

Continued on page 3

a ceheemeneesstaeneiinentiemienpemnttiis
than it did from magnetic north;
of ‘Choppie’ lounging on the front
steps, clad in his orange and pink
pyjamas quietly celebrating the
birth of a nephew; of the road signs,
which Smithy and Kinley hid under
the bunk house; of Blakeney and
Chapman, fighting over Coleen; and
of Edsall trying to convince Shields
and Waters that if they didn’t go
and get an instrument Prof. Copp
would never believe they did their
own work.

 

 

  
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  

end. We tore madly about, tearing
up obsolete turning points, getting
notes up to date, throwing out bottles, then finally all packed and

Al i 
  
 
  
   

| | AMERICA’S OLDEST
ENGINEERING EDITION OF

hears the question, “Does anyone!

~ Suddenly the camp came to an

    
   

 

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 2, 1945

! All Out For Elections, Tues.

‘PackedHouse at Forum as Martinites

Sutherlanders Exchange V erbal Tirades

 

He wants your vote .. » So does he

With the Chem. theatre packed with enthusiasts and hecklers from both campi, (chief among whom was modest exserviceman Morrison), Dalhousians heard the long-awaited
speeches from Presidential candidates Sutherland and Martin.

A quick poll of opinion afterwards | peal for more support of Dalhousie
indicated that both the above gen-| functions, and close co-operation betlemen will rule the Students’ Coun-| tween students, the Council, and the
cil next year. Each is as fully| University; though such appeals are
qualified as the other, if not more| chronic at Dalhousie, it is to be
so; in particular, each supports the| hoped that the next Council will sucCommon Room plan and the collec-| ceed where others have failed.
tion of Year Book funds at the Don’t forget that this year the
University office. Though this was| voting will take place in the Gymnot so plain, the two did disagree|nasium, Tuesday, from nine to ‘Six.
here and there. Let’s have the full count of seven

Through all speeches ran the ap- hundred and eight ballots.

LIST OF NOMINATIONS FOR COUNCIL ELECTIONS

COUNCIL:
President—Fred Martin, Larry Sutherland.
Vice-President—Alex Farquhar, Don Smith.

GLEE CLUB:
President—Harry Zappler, John Meakin.
Vice-President—Elizabeth Reeves, Erma Geddes.
Secretary—Gordon Harrigan, Alfred Cunningham.

D. A.A. C.:

President—Don Harris, Blair Dunlop.
Vice-President—Alfred Cunningham, Robert Wade.
Secretary-Treasurer—William Mingo, John Nicholson.

ARTS AND SCIENCE REPRESENTATIVES

Senior Representatives—Connie Archibald, Virginia Phillips, James Saunders, Alex Stewart.\ (One girl, one boy to be
elected).

Junior Representatives—Lois Rattie, Mary Farquhar, William Mingo, Don Harris. (One girl, one boy to be elected).

Sophomore: Don Kerr, Zelda’ MacKinnon.

Engineering Representatives—Dick Currie, Robert Wade,
Charles Smith. (Two to be elected).

Law Representatives—Clinton Harly, Thomas Feeney.

Medical Representatives — Bruce Miller, James Frazee,
Gordon Sears, Kenneth MacLennan. (Two to be elected).

Commerce Representatives—Blair Dunlop, Arthur Corkum.

Dentistry Representative—Gordon Pentz (acclamation).

FRESHMAN LOOKS AT DALHOUSIE

When I first came to Dalhousie I
knew nothing about Engineering. I
still know nothing about it, but I
have learned to recognize an Engineer when I see one. It seems to me
that they fall into two main classes
—the ones that go to their Geology
Lab, and the one that don’t. However, the former are such a minority, perhaps this division is not a
fair one. On Tuesday afternoons
Don MacLeod has quite a struggle
getting the others to go up with
him. I particularly remember the
day when he sneaked up about 2:25,
found a hard set of problems on the
board, reported this to the drafting

os a

 

room and then headed the general
rush for the gym store.

Another type of senior is the one
who likes to annoy you when you
are working. I consider the fellow
who bounced my big piece of art
gum off the ceiling; a cad, but he is
really not half as bad as the lad
who rubbed his finger over my tracing to see if the ink was dry. It
wasn’t!

Many people have told me that
Engineers are illiterate. This statement I would like to emphatically
deny. Why I have seen them at different times reading whole pages,

Continued on page 2

:

*
: i“ oi ) < 7
wan) iy BAL". < - s
: : ' en CO ee er ae
3 ‘ . armen Rates as ? , er “ey ia "aT
She bess Wis Ls fe vs Sh MS Ee 3k Soe ete Le Oe? Lehr eames iia

   

rh
> oe
ci i Are, Ps 7
ie « hy ig x J "i lf Z
a é P ae ; 7 fiver
ic oe. Fie Ps i. at we oe i
i f Pe , fr swear. £ . es
b ; a ' o
. we PI Birr ik
A .
i ih fi , , 4 gy
J  f 4 . ' 7 » 4, : ¢
at i 2 b>
; . 5 Je = ‘ aot
7 , . dl ‘ i .
4 3 ‘ oP ag ‘ we ; . ltd val + ~ ‘ ;
. ae. * +% bg « vo an 5 ft so F z is [ ; ] f
“ rae H ‘ i ‘ 9 +f ; ee : Weel ’ FF
ra * A a ‘ ‘ 7 ' j aa i \

STUDENT PUBLICATION

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

=| Gus and Looie walked into the din‘| ing room, each with a suitcase which
-| appeared to be very heavy. They
carefully carried their precious loads

 

  
  
    

No. 17

| a) t

March6 —

The Big Night

WHEN DRAFTSMEN WERE ALL FULL
OF SPIRITS

Here, good people of Dalhousie, is the story of the Engineers’ banquet of 1945. For those who are so unfortunate
that they do not belong to the Engineering Society, we will
try to present a fairly detailed picture of how “the Boys from
the Draughting Reom” spent last Friday evening and so on
into ... Preparations for the great affair were handled by an
exceedingly capable committee, who for two or three weeks
beforehand laboured with all the details that are required to
make a successful banquet.

About 5.30, an hour before any
engineers were expected to show up,

 

in at night. The cat seemed quite
unmoved at all this. Proc’s newly
acquired amourous spirit managed
to annoy a few including Mike and
Burgess. About half-way through
the meal, Saffron, who had been
seen reaching under the table at
frequent intervals, reached under
to find nothing to reach for. Haying gotten over the initial shock at
this discovery, he dived completely
under in order to more carefully
investigate the cause of this seeming catastrophe. The difficulty must
have been corrected, because he
soon emerged beaming from ear to
ear. The boys at Dunlop’s table
were quite stunned at his learned
lectures on the physiological relations between the camel and the
butterfly. Meanwhile at the head
table, Burgess was telling Professor
Coffin about the types of mathematics used in various fields of
chemistry.

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  

over to a large table that was off
by itself in one corner of the dining
room. On top of this table was a
huge, gleaming object which was
either a large bath tub or a small
swimming pool (Proc later found
out it wasn’t a swimming pool).
Soon the suitcases were unpacked
and Gus and Looie started emptying
Lime Rickey and stuff and things
into the psuedo-bathtub. A furious
debate as to whether the ice should
be added now or later, was in progress when in walked “Mac, our
photographer, to record the appearance of the bathtub in all its splendour for posterity. Sharp on the
stroke of 5.27, Skinner, all by himself, walked into the dining room
and asked, “How is everything going, if you know what I mean, gentlemen?” Soon everything was going fine. After it had been duly
sampled, and pronounced perfect by
the two-man refreshment committee,
members of the society began arriving thick and fast. Those presiding were confronted by many
faces which looked familiar, but
who said, “No this is only my first”.
Our large Miller inquired, “What in

Toasts and Speeches

The toasts and speeches were, on
the whole, the same as in other
years. After the toast to the King,
proposed by President Carl, South
Shore Kinley rose and proposed the
toast to the University, which he
said he loved. This was responded to
by Dr. Coffin, who claimed that the
story that Prof. Theakston had told
him was unfit even for this gather
 

h do you call this stuf? I want ing of intellectuals. Next Looie got
a drink”, Proc came back many | UP in his toast to the professsion; he

raved on with masterful oratorical
power about the future possibilities
for engineers. When questioned as
to who wrote it for him he declined
to comment. Professor Bowes responded to this by speaking at
length about a maid who went
swimming and the country lad who
was watching her. Wade proposed
the toast to the faculty, and in doing so apologized for the students
going to asleep, etc. Professor
Copp responded nobly by claiming
in a loud voice that he had been
cheated, that he hadn’t got enough
to drink. In introducing Professor
MacNeill, the president of the
Society conferred upon him an
honorary life membership in the
Society, in recognition of his longstanding interest-and friendship with
the engineering students of Dalhousie. Professor MacNeill proposed
the toast to the graduating class,
*: the first class about which I
can say nothing’. Art Saffron responded by pointing out the fact
that there are “ only 19 of us
left of 667’.

L. D. Currie Speaks

The guest speaker, the Hon. L. D.
Currie, then addressed the engineers
on minerals and mining possibilities
in Nova Scotia. The talk was very
general, and not too technical. It
was interesting even to those who

Continued on page 2

times, and each time claiming that
this was against his principles and
he really didn’t need it anyway.
Smitty kept up his fine reputation
and disappointed no one. When the
members of the faculty arrived, two
or three of the boys volunteered to
take the job of keeping their glasses
full. After fifteen minutes these
boys were worn out. One of them
wandered off muttering. “I woudn’t
have believed it possible”.

The Bear Facts

Our chief was entertaining Professors Coffin and Bowes with the
story of how he beat a bear over
the head with a transit in the north
woods. Things soon came to a
standstill, except for Society executive members, who were dashing
around, audibly wondering what had
happened to the guest speaker, who
had not yet arrived. After some
frenzied telephone calls and more
dashing around, our guest arrived,
the hoards gathered around the
many tables sat down, and the banquet itself began. It was a most
delicious repast. A few of the
freshmen still. remember it. The
ing catastrophe. The difficulty must
aux champignons (phew). During
the banquet, a large cat, in the
family way, walked straight over
and sat down beside “Blower” Currie, who promptly reprimanded it,
and extolled the virtue in staying

 

    
  

  
 
 

    
 

~

GINE

yt
rz 4

   

at

  
  

*e

crisp morning SPEDE Re eA: alk

Fy "
oe h i
esi

ats
,

|

ENGINEER'S HEAVEN—OR, CAUGHT IN THE DRAFT
To understand the most collectively individual individuals
the campus, to learn why their “herd instincts” and loyalty
the group are so evident, we must study the Engineer in the
ice of his choice, his shrine and sweatshop—the draughting
i Arts ’49, as he drooped wearily (or so it appeared to the virile
ngineer) to “Jumbology I’, his required Science class, on the

Today he would devote himself

_ to a study of the daily life and customs of the Engineer, and

  

finitely closer to the infinite,
other Arts students.
_ He finally reached the dizzy
\ heights of “Copp’s Kingdom”, and
was scanning the room for bridges
and beer, when a file of men in
‘navy blue, with rather large note‘books carried uniformly under the
left arm, burst from an unnoticed
northern door. As each man came
into view his head and neck tilted
back smartly, his eyes looked
| heavenward and sparkled (as at”
_ Glimo’s), and his step faltered.
“Some naval tradition,’ muttered
Ne rN McQueen, “but why did their mouths
‘ swater?”

  

  

Rube hed» _ His interest aroused, he ventured
_,. on into the hushless maze of stools,
tilted tables, numbered drawers,
large flat pieces of wood locked to
upright posts, with a few gum
_) wrappers strewn about, but no beer
'. bottles, old or otherwise. The walls
| are suitably decorated with photos
Mpc ni of previous classes and the various
/'. trophies offered by Dalhousie for
| _ interfaculty sport. To his bewild_. erment, McQueen finally noted a
| high concentration of Varga. . girls
_. pinned next to the ceiling on the
_ western wall, “a psychological problem, no doubt”, he mused, as he
meditated on a particularly shapely
.  , specimen enclosed in a glass case
-. with a note in a scrambled hand, “I

consider this a very neat job”. He

toddles off to “Jumbology I’o

ee That afternoon, troubled by the
, mystery of the closed northern door,
_.. MeQueen returned to find the room
_ beyond occupied by engineers, toil- > ing silently. At the head of the
room a slavedriver, whip in hand,
stood scowling on a small spidery
_. ereature pictured on the blackboard,
| ‘with “Do Not Erase” as a caption.
0h _ Thus challenged, he flings the whip
_.. aside (striking one Proctor a telling
blow), and scrubs vigorously at the
tiny figure, but to no avail. Then
_ his fury breaks upon the class,
“Gentlemen”, he begins, “this is a
concentration camp, not just a slave
galley. The evil that men do, lives
after them; if you copy, in the words
| of the poet, ‘You’re a skunk’. Re/~ member, the lost joke will always
- bé on me”. At long last, appeased

 

| Bathousie

Bye i | _ Diplomas: Music, Engineering,
Languages and History.
M.A., M.Se.

Ned i y, Bit of

ee | egurses,

| Inclusive Fees: in the B.A.
‘ in the B.Sc. course,

 

thusly further his search for the fundamental truths, to draw

or to waste his time like the

by thoughts of employing the transit girl held in highest esteem by all
Engineers, he left chuckling, “I
guess I was born thirty years too
late”’. .

McQueen settles himself in a corner and proceeds to take the notes
which are reproduced herewith:—
Now rid of their tormentor, the
engineers rejoice, and pandemonium
reigns. Clarke and Nunes fill the
room with “noises, sounds and sweet
airs, that give anguish and hurt”,
Proctor whispers, “Tell me Errol,
did I really ride up to the gym on
the back of a tramcar?” Burgess
(the man most likely to be shot for
a deer) asks Balcom if he can work
out a system of reclaiming the blood
of the rabbits killed by “One Shot’’
Barnett. At the other of the room
Saffron squeals “Oh that tickles!”,
while Clark demands that his thumb
tacks be restraightened. Payzant
practises tones to be built into his
organ, and seeks the approval of the
elass—he doesn’t get it. Power, quiet
and efficient,, is the center of activity for all those not anxious to stay
afloat. A delegation of Yeadon,
Moulton, and Weiner approach Currie, “Dick boy, why ain’t you like
you use to was. You ain’t gonna
let Shorty disgrace you, is you?
Come on fella, show us how—”
Feanny speaks. “Hey Nunes”,
Bloomer is memorizing the 1945,
46, ’47 calendars. “March 19, 1945
is Mon., March 20, 1945 is Wed,”
Mike steps into the room, shouts,
“T don’t like the Gazoot, I can walk
30 miles in 5 hours, and I’m way
ahead on my plates’—steps out.
Kip Gray, spattered with ink, moans,
“Today is my evil hour’. Oakley
triumphantly bearing a tattered and
ancient copy of Life, “Here it is,
boys, just a month old; and I made
the chief promise to give us enough
work to do so we won’t have to
worry about it any more”. A clock
in the corner chimes four—What!
the place is deserted.

McQueen steals away, a confused
and beaten Artsman.

Moral: Stick to your stacks,

 

Uniuerstty

eb Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

, Ni MEN Arts and Science Faculty
) Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B-Comm.,

B.Mus., Phm, B,
Pharmacy, Education

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties

Tei) Bas). Course in Public Administration
I Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the

The Professional Faculties
| in
ee Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

_

course, average about $160 a year,
about $190 a year.

Residence

«|. Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
ate AB! _ Carefully supervised residential facilities for men.

iw aM
owen’

Pe Py ae
( Wy tae
Ai ;

- Annual Engineering Banquet Features
Presentation of Bob Walter Award

 

Art Burgess (above) receiving the coveted Bob Walter award from

Professor Copp, head of the Engineering Department.

Occasion: Annual

Boilermakers’ Banquet in Lord Nelson hotel.

Highlight of the Engineer

s’ banquet on Friday, Feb. 23,

was the presentation to Arthur E. Burgess of the Bob Walter
award by Prof. W. P. Copp. This award is given each year to a
member of the graduating class in Engineering who, in the
opinion of his fellow students and his professors, is the most
popular boy in his class and best lives up to the qualities of Bob

Walter,

. This year Arthur E. Burgess was
chosen. Art came to Dalhousie four
years ago, having graduated from
the Halifax Academy. ‘He has become popular with his fellow students by means of his pleasing personality, active participation in cambus activities and his interest in his

studies. One reason for his popularity is his co-operation with the
junior members of the Engineering
Society in helping them with their
work,

His scholastic record since coming
to Dal has left nothing to be desired. Art has led his class in almost everything since his Freshman

year, and last year won a Scholarship in Mathematics.

Art’s ability has also been ably
demonstrated on the playing fields
of Dalhousie. In his first two years
at Dal he played interfaculty football and hockey for the Engineers,
and for the past two years has gained a berth on the Varsity football
squad.

Art graduates this year with a
B. Se. and a diploma in Engineering
and we wish to express our best
wishes to him on behalf of the
Engineering Society in his studies
at N.S. Technical College. Hats
off to a great scholar, a great athlete and a great prospective Engineer,

i EN

WITH OPEN ARMS

Lately the C.0.T.C. has admitted to its ranks the boys of
the U.A.T.C. who have been styled, with only grudging justice,
fine specimens and well-set-up young fellows. Col. Jones has
already welcomed “‘you specimens” into the corps. He is also
currently trying to corral the physical derelicts around the
campus, and may yet flash them the same sadistic smile of
welcome. This latest move is expected to affect the halt, the
lame, the blind in one eye, the M.A.’s and the D.A.A.C.

We in the ranks wish you just as hearty a welcome, and
sympathize with you on landing in the C.O-T.C. with clipped
wings. In short, we admit you as full-fledged members into the
comradeship of the C.O.T.C., with all the rights and privileges
(?) appertaining thereto.

“Unfortunately” we in the senior platoon may not be back,
before camp, to make good this weleome. If we are back, then
we will really be unfortunate, for the Colonel has stated that
we will regret it individually if we fail the T.O.E.T. Here again
we are in complete accord with our O.C., for we will regret it
very sincerely if we land back in the C.0O.T.C. before May.

It might be appropriate at this point for an old hand to
give you some advice. We have given this matter some thought,
but with little to show for our trouble. In fact, we can not
even see the point in the whole thing. There are certainly no
“positive” results to show for time spent in the C.0.T.C. We
can say this about the organization: take it as you find it; take
it with a grin; you have to take it anyway.
ett eesasbsnsosereiensnnmnihuaenestnersrsicsvinens carson stories.

A Freshman Looks— The Big Night—
Continued from page 1 Continued from page 1
and with amazingly little difficulty. | are not planning to enter mining.
They cannot, of course, write. A|The Hon. member concluded his
look at the signs on our bulletin | talk by saying that there is no reaboard would prove this. I alse will| son why engineers should not make
admit they seem to have a dislike | good public speakers. Soon the
of culture. It might even be true| hotel shook with a mighty renderthat one has said “Us Engineers| ing of the engineers yell; the predon’t need no*English,” but then| sentation of the Bob Walter’s Memthere is no denying the .fact that! orial Award was made, and with the
three of them recently sat in on an| singing of the King, the banquet was
English II lecture, and while some officially over. For some, however,
people believe it was “that cute] ; was far from being over. A large
little thing down in the corner” who group of engineers ventured out to
attracted them, i prefer to place my | tho gym and added some life to an
ation. er otherwise dull affair. After this
. e it isi
power to explode is the claim that ae Bead es pce ene ‘
Engineers are wolves. Why,  in- quiet, decorous celebration was takstead of the rude pin-ups that, some ing place, H thal d
reports have it, are hung in the draft- eI UR eee
wore on, more and more engineers,

ing room, I find only calendars. This :

Y : } charmed by Morpheus or something

ie segs saciid as and feeling that it had been a most
z ‘ UU ay wonderful banquet, found their way

arise the question—‘*Why are there to their residences, and with few

so many calendars?” This question i 1 ;
is, however, apparent, so I leave it] ©X°°P™0"S, Slept well into the next
afternoon,

with you.

I have been asked, on numerous
occasions, how I know so much
about Engineers. The fact is that I
spend most of my spare time working in the drafting room. The rea
SE ET

son? Well, I guess I’m just an Engineer at heart myself—lI love work,
It fascinates me. I can sit and look
at it for hours.

   
     

 
 
     
 
    
     
 
     
      
     
       
       
        
       
       
    
          
       
  
  
   
   
 

avy Ga ee ee

Where the
College Men Congregate

Specialists in Smart Clothes for Young Men.
*

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

112 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*

YOUR SUITS

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER |

When they go to Cousins
REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish

lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
——send what you have to Cousins often.

   

 
    
     
   

   
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
    
 

i
=p

ae ce

— a

    
    
   
   
     
    
  
   
 
  
     
  
    
      
        
    
     
   
    
      
       
       
               

  

 

Peni eur "Gs =

n dawned on us and the Engineers
liar haunts. Three flights of stairs rattled
ed under the footsteps of returning comrades while
shting room rang lustily with their tales of summer
ture. This was but a brief pause and a relief of pent-up
ons before the long grind of another year began, while all
istomed themselves to a life of rigid confinement and

      

Ca¥)
‘
ty

 

   

- There were many who had not returned. There were many

‘in “brand new freshmen who had come so that the Society should
} be perpetuated; but they were new and undisciplined, unlearned
in the traditions and honor that pervaded the great society they
aspired to join. The first meeting of the year was called on
October 3 to explain to the freshmen how the land lay. Carl

TV itt’e - as chairman and Gus Oekley gave his oration on what
Fee

~oty meant and how it was organized.

‘as explained that all freshmen in Engineering must

‘\°e ba much stricter code then other freshmen, to continue
the t-odition of scholarly refinement long attributed to encineers. It was further pointed out that in the social field they
ret curtail activities and ignore the frivolous amusements of
~on-eneineers. Engineers have a hard, brutal climb; they must
| s.r strive to complete their work before playing, for those
‘ho do not climb fall by the wayside.

One and all settled down to work. Many a fair lassie on the
campus was hurt when she discovered that her engineer would
rather toil in the draughting room than neglect it and pay
tribute to her. The wheels ground on, but in spite of adversity
the Society throve.

Details of the Engineers’ main activities are the talk of the
campus, but lesser-known activities were not neglected. The Life
magazine subscription was renewed for the benefit of the 9:15
students who face a locked door without knowledge of Proctor’s
Detour. Individual members contributed generously to the very
fine art exhibits on the walls, and very fine taste was evidenced
by the arresting selections. One or two were worthy of special
note, particularly the one that adorns the far side of the beam
in the Inner Sanctum. Unfortunately, it was stolen by some
thoughtless fellow whose consideration for others was overwhelmed by the compelling exquisiteness of the “exposed” art.

The Society had the pleasure of a unique occasion. Professor W. Bowes took unto himself a wife and, as a token of
our best wishes, he was summoned to a meeting of the Engineers and presented with a particularly fine serving set, with
the understanding that one day we might be invited to watch
him use it.

Pressure of exams forced all activities into the shade, and
the Engineers burned the midnight oil well into the morning,
but when the holidays and the exams were over the buoyant
spirit throbbed through the Society’s veins and exploded into
action. Plans were rapidly completed for the Dance and Banquet, An attempt to have the Ball exclusively for Engineers
was frustrated by a campus that clamored for admittance, but
the Banquet ... Ah-!!!

A new note was sounded in the Society when the Senior
members formed a Class Life organization with Gus Oakley
as President and Art Saffron as Secretary. The long association in the Inner Sanctum bred too high a sense of fellowship
and mutual appreciation to be dissolved and forgotten upon
graduation. A Constitution was drawn up, whereby each
member would write a letter to the secretary every April. The
secretary, thereupon, is to mail all the letters in circular form
to the members. Thus contact will be kept; in 1955 the bulldozers will push back the mahogany desks and the corporation
heads will return for the class reunion.

Now that the Banquet is over, the Society’s activities are
practically completed. It has been a good year. All the meetings were well attended and all business efficiently dealt with
in the accustomed manner. An active interest was shown by
all in the Society’s undertakings, even by freshmen. The
graduating class leaves the Society reins in the hands of those
who remain, with the utmost confidence that they have the
‘eadership, ability, and finesse to guide the Society ever onward-—come hill or high water!

¥4

 
 

ur
i
>
4
c

 
 
 

  
 
 
 

a

ae

A, ty in Manes i ‘
. PL ARP
a. - } es : .

NORTH ATLANTIC SQUADRON”

  
   

1
\ a eyed
: t

 
 
 

 
 
 
      

... THE BIG THREE...

 

Mow, gentlemen

Professor Walter P. Copp received
his higher education at Acadia, unfortunately, and McGill University,
later working as Dominion Land
Surveyor, as a consulting engineer,
and finally with the famed Quebec
Bridge Commission. Since 1920 he
has been Head of the Department at
Dalhousie where, in his lovably
quaint manner he has revealed the
mysteries of Mechanics 2, 3, 5; Surveying 1 and 2, and Reminiscing 1.
Prof. Copp is well organized—member of the E.I.C. and past-president
of N. S. Assn. of Professional Engineers. His lighter activities include the annual Engineers’ Banquet
and the Halifax Curling Club, recently skipping his rink to a trophy
and eternal fame.

Soe
ys Kai (C7

ony

 

“
/ leave it with you, gentlemen

Professor H. R. Theakston is one
of our own sons, receiving his education. at Dalhousie and N. S. Tech,
where he graduated with high honours in Mining Engineering. During Werld War 1 he served overseas
for two years and later worked as a
statistical engineer in Bosten. In
1921 he returned to Dalhousie, this
time on the giving end as professor
of Mechanical Drawing and Descriptive Geometry. A member of
E.I.C. and the N. S. Assn. of Professional Engineers, he has supervised the erection of the Med Library, the Law Building, the Gym
and Shirreif Hall. To all queries
concerning a secret entrance to the
latter, Prof. Theakston yields only
an enigmatic smile,

 

DIFFYNOTIONS

Canti-lev-er—Sorry you have become so attached, Steve.

~
Z

 

An y Q vestionsr

Professor William H. Bowes is
also a former Dal man who has
switched allegiance, graduating from
Tech in Mechanical Engineering in
1943. While a student, he spent a
summer as an AID aircraft inspector, keeping the riveters on their toes
with a snap of his whip. In preparation for this responsibility he
previously had worked in a _ boiler
factory, where he was known as
“Bowesie the Riveter.” Since coming to Dalhousie two years ago he
has taught Descriptive Geometry,
Kinematics, and Mathematics, in
structed at Survey Camp, taught
Mathematics in the old U.A.T.C.,
and last year became the silent
partner of Mr. and Mrs. Bowes, Ince.
Prof. Bowes is a student member of

the E.I.C,

 

(H)armoneck motion—Prelude to
a kiss,

Ions—What criminals are thrown

week-end episode.

Scabotage—(1) underhand method of reference; (2) confisca
The Backward Bow—
Continued from page 1
then being erected; called before the
Senate, he pleaded insanity and was
excused amid many a knowing wink.
After a year of similar drivel he was
eased off into the Features section,
where he will probably remain for
the rest of his natural life, degrading that precious form of humor
known as nonsense and practising
engineer-baiting to his heart’s con
BIRKS DIAMONDS

Magic words symbolize
supreme quality in the
‘ing of gems.

Yet Birks diamonds cost
no more.

O

       
   

"Henry Birks & Sons

tent.

On the whole, he is quite
harmless but in the latter respect
he is doing us a valuable service;
he has successfully maintained the
Engineers’ traditional reputation as
No. 1 Beermen, Black Sheep and
Dopes of Dalhousie whereas everyone knows the title truly belongs to
the Law Society. i

C.0.T.C. Bright Light

MacCleave’s present occupations
are significant. As 2 i/e. of the
C.0.T.C. Q.M. Stores (where he is
continually being mistaken for a
.803) he has a job in the basement
of the Gym; in his permanent editorship, he has a job in the basement
of the Arts building; as copy boy in
the basement of the Herald & Mail
building, he is working his way
through Law School. All in all,
these jobs are indicative of his basementality. In a final effort to deceive some of his fellows, he has
changed his name to Big Leak and,
this being insufficient back home, he
has switched the latter from Rexton
to Moncton. His is a case which deserves the utmost sympathy and
understanding; next time you see
him just pat his head and say, “Isn’t
he a fine boy?”

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
®

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

Che-mystery—just one big puzzle.

Gusset plate—We’ll dis-gusset it
later (don’t be dis-gusset with
us).

into (cast ion). tion of dividers.
Ought-a-mobile—It should go.

Phizz-’ics—Short description of |

be here...

Meehan eae. %

Trance-it— To hold by spell
(strictly on the spirit level.)

 

It’s great to

RO

 

   

     
  

= F< sé
——
a a

... Or helping a soldier feel at home
When he’s back on furlough, three words, Have a Coke, bring a
soldier’s earlier life back to mind—his days after school or after
work, with the gang and with his girl. Ice-cold Coca-Cola holds a
friendly place in Canadian life. It should have a place in your family
icebox. Wherever Canadians go, Coca-Cola stands for the pause
that refreshes—has become a symbol of our friendly way of life, by its friendly abbreviation
e.” Both mean the quality

fe Weta Cok ch
The Coca-Cola Company of Canada, Limited, Halifax Se product of The Coca-Cola
694 Company of Canada, Limited.

 
  

You naturally hear Coca-Cola
a

 

‘STUDENT SERVICE
KING’S CHAPEL

SUNDAY, MARCH 4th, 7:00 P.M. |

Speaker: Rey. Malcolm Ransom
EVERYONE WELCOME!

 

72S QUARE

For men (Engineers) only.

   

Are the Dartmouth girls really as
nice as the Dartmouth boys say?
If so, why don’t the boys bring them
out in the open, eh Gus?

6 x a8

Concerning the romance between
the little Scottish girl and the little
Scotch boy. It appears that Don
hangs on so tightly at the basketball
games and dances in fear of competition. The recent upstarts include
a certain Med student and that
handsome (theoretically speaking)
fullback from Tech, who insists on
coming to the Dal dances stag.

* Ht *

The results of a recent vote among
the engineers for the election of a
campus beauty queen was rather indecisive (see elsewhere on this
page). High on the list, however,
was that chic without a pic, that
Gym store Lamour, Vera. Vital
statistics—yes and plenty of them.

Burgess (senior) is. endeavouring
to start a poll on the question, “Who
is the sweetest girl on the campus,
and why do you think Edna is?”
Those corporal stripes seem to have
stood up well beside the gold braid.

It seems that Louise couldn’t
make up her mind whom to ask to
the Sadie Hawkins Scramble, so instead of disappointing only one she
disappointed both Pete and Mike.

Bs * *
* oa of
Power and Balcom have finally
come out with the truth. The reason they are so reluctant to give
blood is not doctor’s orders, as was
first thought; actually they want to
keep all their strength for the wild
life they lead.
ae
Banquet Ballyhoo (for a full report see page 1).

ORPHEUS

Mar. 5——6—7

ARMY WIVES and
THE JADE MASK

 

Mar. 8—9—10

LIGHTS GO ON AGAIN
and OLD TEXAS TRAIL

 

 

GARRICK

Sat. — Mon. — Tues.
“MUSIC IN MANHATTAN

Anne Shirley and
Dennis Day
eS SESS
Wed. — Thurs. — Fri.
“GREAT MOMENT” and
MAIN STREET AFTER DARK

CAPITOL

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

Thirty Seconds Over
Tokyo

Monday and Tuesday

Meet Me In St. Louis

 

 
   

 

Bev! “VIC CLARK
_ + Vie came into the world greatly
__ handicapped; he was born in Newfie.
In his early childhood he moved
from “hell to heaven”, and has made
_ Dartmouth his home ever since. He
Nr graduated from Dartmouth High in
_. 1941, where he played basketball
and held a berth on the swimming
_ tteam. Coming to Dal in ’42, he
played intermediate football, while
_ the following year saw him into in| termediate football, basketball and
_ boxing. This year Vic is really go_ ing to town, As tail-up on the var_ sity football squad, he improved
with every game, until, in those
- matches with Tech, he was considered the best tackler on the team.
_ Basketball rolled around, and Vic
again jumped to the varsity sextet.
Rr Ardent Swimmer
Swimming is probably Vic’s best
sport. Manager and star of the
_ team, Vic’s times are outstanding,
as he proved at U. N. B. Among

mad

are

his other sporting activities is box_ ing, where he throws both fists with
_ accuracy, and knows how to duck.
_ Vie is a great believer in conditioning. While in training he
_ actually follows the rules “no wine,
_ women or cigarettes”. In his spare
_ time, he works out on the parallel
' bars, which accounts for his rug gedness.
___ -Vie is-easy going and (girls take
_ note) a very likeable chap. He is
_ graduating in engineering and
science this year, and his plans, like
his fellow students, are indefinite.
_ He is truly a remarkable fellow.
_ Yo appreciate this statement, con| sider anyone who can handle a third
‘i z year engineering and science course,
' and, at the same time, receive a
gold “D” for partaking in three
| major sports in one year.

5

 

 

Ga , EATON'S

 

  

 

 

: FOR NECKWEAR

eee A? EATON’S you will find a great array of attractive

She neckties to choose from. . . . Visit the Men’s Wear

| Department on the Main Floor at your earliest oppor
| tunity and select the ties you need. ... Striped and

oe figured patterns in a grand assortment — featuring
. various colour combinations.

_EATON’S Men’s Wear Department—Main Floor

ai i ‘ F
r eb x 7 ¢
Sa ee ae ; eS
& a
A i li :
£ a iy ea ao G84: me Slt Ee ol! 6 fee ee me et , , . f
ae 7 . a mF — = 7 eS aases > ~
: 1% 7 . rea \ nd .
i : eh od al a ie J . - : : ' .
f * eth ' : > \
h : $ " T
4 /
<4 DOW ty ad A
a

ie em =r a ar ,
: 4 row, + i cee oe
'

= vt ; i

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

_CAGERS IN REVENGE MATCH

v2. |: a

 

Dal Tigers Revenge
Mount A. Defeat

Saturday, Feb. 24th, should go
down in the history of Dalhousie
athletic events. It was the first
time in at least three years that the
student body actually gave some
support to their team. Undoubtedly
if all Dat students present had supported their “own” team there would
now be required a new roof for the
Gymnasium. The writer wishes to
congratulate Miss Leonard for her
article on last week’s Gazette sports
page, for that article was responsible for this support.

First Half

The game started off at a fairly
slow pace with both teams playing
a very cautious game. The Mount
A. quintet had a slight edge on the
play during the first twenty minutes
of the game, with playing-coach Bill
Crawford displaf¥ing his usual form
of high scorer. It was apparent that
the Tigers displayed good ballhandling but, as usual, threw away
a log of baskets by taking long shots
from impossible angles. The first
half of the game ended with Mt. A.
15, Dal 10.

Second Half

The second half opened with Dal
setting a furious pace. All five of
the first team began to show the
possibilities expected of them in preseason training. In the first ten
minutes of this period Dal outscored
Mt. A. 17—4. In the final ten minutes, the Tigers seemed confident
of a win and began taking things
easy. As a result, the opponents
from Sackville doubled Dal’s score
in this last quarter. The final score
of the game was Dalhousie 33, Mt.
A. 31.

To pick any individual stars for
the Tigers is a very hard task.
However, Capt. Carl Giffen deserves
special mention for keeping up the
reputation of high scoring guards.
The Tigers received one unfortunate
mishap when Alf (Shiek) Cunningham sustained an arm injury. It is
hoped that Alfie will recover quickly and re-enter the game when Dal
plays Y.M.C.A. for Halifax Senior
play-offs. Bob Mitchell was referee.

Each 1.00 to 1.50.

 

“SPORTS

BIG EXHIBITION PLANNED

Would Stage Activities in Drafting Room...

 

Plans for the biggest sports exhibition in Dal’s history are
under way. A program of wide scope has been presented by the
committee in charge, and with their kind co-operation, we will
endeavour to outline a few of the main events.

Due to the limited size of the|L. J. Payzant has consented to

gymnasium, the full program will
take place in the spacious inner
drafting room. Bleachers are now
under construction which will seat
an audience of thousands. The
President of the Society will declare
the meet officially opened, and will
point out the various first aid stations to the artsmen. The secretary,
having received the kind permission
of Miss Ross, will then introduce
the freshmen engineers who will receive major felt “D’s”. We think
these gentlemen deserve much credit,
and suggest that you shake their
hands as they will be carrying the
Tigers in to nation-wide fame in
future years.

Push-Up Champions

At precisely 10 a. m., the real
action will get under way when the
engineering push-up champion will
be determined. Three years competition has eliminated a field of sixtysix to two finalists, “Hit and run
Yeadon” and “Give me a cookie”
Saffron. The former is still in great
shape from the tough twenty-four
hour day at Mabou, while the latter has been following a rigourous
early morning road work schedule,
from Oxford St. to the Physics
Theatre. Saffron is a great believer in eating for health, so Miss
MacDean is in complete charge of
his training table. Harry Power
will do the umpiring, making all the
necessary measurements with his
personally invented “chest-hair calipers”’.

As no time limit has been placed
on event number one, we believe
that time will permit only one more
feature on the morning program.
Badminton fiends must all be present
for the great master of the courts,

 

FROSH DOWN ARTS AND
SCIENCE 6-5

In a fast but rough game Freshmen, led by Lamont and Morris, advanced to a three-way tie for the

Interfaculty: Hockey League leader- |

ship. Outstanding for Arts & Science were Ferguson and Boudreau,
lack of reserves being a big factor
in their defeat.

Interfaculty Standing

Hockey WwW L Pts
(UT OM pO age 2 0) 4
PAE Vary ta ddl o a4) sl’ 2 1 4
MEMRNATES Shoah. 5 ty oy ids tone 2 2 4
Pe EAT i ances 1 2 2
te A BOR is lileece 1 3 2
Basketball

BOPP agile sit date erterc 4 1 8
MGGSs Paley ead. 3 1 6
SPUORI aN yt cb le. aa s 3 3 6
AXES Ge Shen. cies c ec 0 5 0

TIGERESSES BOW TO AXETTES

Last Saturday,*Feb. 24th, the
girls’ Ist basketball team went up
to Acadia, all set to make up for
their one-point defeat in the home
game. Norma Sherman scored the
first basket for Dal ,and_ shortly
after Ann Saunderson fell, sprained
her ankle and was off for the rest
of the game. Dal dropped behind
and the score at half time was 13-8
for Acadia. Although the team was
playing a hard-fighting game they
were unable to make up the three
baskets needed to win the game, and
the score when the final whistle
blew was 25-20.

 

Jerry Naugler’s

Orchestra

38 SHORE ROAD.
Call 6-4388

 

 

    
     

demonstrate (no blonds allowed)
while balanced on the top of four
drafting room stools. Girls, if your
heart is weak, you’d better leave
for this performance.

The final event of the afternoon
will be a curling match between
Prof. Copp’s Champs and the former Dartmouth High schoolers. The
chief has recently made headlines
in provincial papers for his ability
in these sports channels. He claims
he keeps in condition by early morning snow shovelling. At the same
time, the harbour town boys have
been pushing (or breaking) stones
for a long time and are all ready
to go.

Supper will consist of rabbit soup.
The whole evening will be devoted
to a fight to a finish between
Waterfield and Proctor. In case
either of the contestants is unable
to make a knockout, the fight will
be stopped at 12.00 and a decision
will be given the lone judge, Miss
Louise Carr. Both competitors fully
intend to stick to their agreement;
the winner takes the babe. Errol
MacDonald has been chosen as
referee, as he played the part of
cupid in the scénes behind the screen,

Don’t miss this day of days. All
day admission will be one quart of
beer; a half day, one pint. Doug
Clark and Don Dunlop will be in
charge, so don’t try any fast ones.
Their ability to smell the contents
of a corked bottle a block away is
widely known. The net proceeds
will go to the members of the Horizontal Club, which so generously
came forth with everything they

hold dear to make the banquet a
success.

 

from the
Drafting Class °

@ It’s getting so the
Drafting student or Art
student daren’t turn his
back on his TURQUOISE
Drawing Pencil.

Students, professors,
instructors, teachers,
artists and businessmen
have all discovered that
TURQUOISE is more
than just the world’s finest
drawing pencil. It’s also
the finest writing pencil
ever made.

SUGGESTION TO
DRAFTING and
ART STUDENTS:

Tell ’em to buy their own
TURQUOISE. They’re
only 10c.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
   

a t- zr , Da a OOS Ss .
i ie Ph BE t ee : a ges One: RI ee i: % ‘NA se pox 7 = .
a eS x Rea Stee eee A 4 So eon < c
eI SUS SS Poe st See eo whe + ihe me “eS LOL wh ee
aa 5 SSG SN RR ca Ree SBS a ROR a ae ‘ mx
~ See iat NS oo tie aa aX ine, Veins macnn” Honeoye
f Win ac Rtecec ack. Sac ach cea ere eee, ;
4 ee See : eis
LL

  

  

GIRLS LOSE AND WIN WITH
ST. PAT’S

The Dal girls’ senior team met
first defeat in senior league on Monday night at St. Patrick’s; score
24-19. With the loss of two players—Ann Saunderson of the forward line and Syb Pentz on the
guard line, the team fought hard,
using Liz Reeves and Jean Foster
who came to the re$cue of the shorthanded team.

The second team played their
usual well-organized game, Irene
Robinson being high scorer with 16
points. Dal took the game with a
score of 30-7.

Ist Team: P. Jones 12; N. Sherman 2; J. Hart 5; J. Foster. Guards:
L. Bisset, Jo Robertson, Liz Reeves.

2nd Team: I. Robinson, 16; V.
Phillips, 7; L. Rattie, 7. Guards: J.
Silver, M. MacPherson, L. Joudrey.

LS
a
Ss

 

 

 

, March 2, 1945.

 

ENGINEERS DEFEAT PINE
HILL IN INTER-FAC.
HOCKEY

The Engineers having recovered
from their recent defeat by Arts
and Science rolled to a 7-1 victory
over Pine Hill on Monday, at King’s
rink,

Blakeney led the Engineers in
their scoring barrage with three
goals. Teasdale banged in two and
assisted on Chapman’s. Burgess
was responsible for the other, the
opening marker of the game.

Whitney was the lone scorer for
Pine Hill. He shot the dise past
“Choppy” Miller after receiving it
from MacLeod, who carried it the
length of the rink. John Stuart, in
the Pine Hill nets, played a magnificent game and prevented the score
from being doubled.

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited

Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

THE
Rosedale Nurseries
HALIFAX DARTMOUTH

381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 Spring Garden Rd. H-2200

 

 

 

BASIL WINTERS

LIMITED

383 Barrington Street

 

v

Now Showing

MEN'S OVERCOATS, TOPCOATS
SUITS, FURNISHINGS, Etc.

 
