qi

 

  

ee yes, the hour is fast approaching.

ie

  

Arts Bldg.
Everybody Out

 

    
 

i by é
AMERICA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

    
  

STUDENT PUBLICATION
INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

Sophs and
Freshie-Sophs
Meeting
Thursday

March 29th
12 Noon
Room 3

Arts Bldg.

 

 

' VOL. LXXVII

n

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 238, 1945

_ Clark Report Advocates
_ Reform Within D. A. A. C.

Attributes Poor Year to Lack of Support From Entire Student Body

ay The annual meeting of the D.A.A.C. was held Thursday noon in the Chem Theatre.
Main business of the meeting was the awarding of felt D’s to members of our various Varsity

teams. Highlight of the meeting, howover, was the report and recommendations of Doug
Clark, retiring president of the D.A.A.C. for for the year ’44—45,

Team Spirit Lacking

President Clark took pains to indicate the effect which the general
lack of spirit so prevalent at this
University had had upon the University teams engaged in competitive
sport. He pointed out that Dalhousie
was represented in six branches of
sport, and the overall average to
poor showing resulting was not the

__ fault of managers and coaches but

 

_ rather of individual students who

_ refused to offer their services to the
+ teams making impossible the suspension of players not taking the proper
interest in training and playing.

con “Unless this attitude changes next

year,” he continued, “I strongly re"quest the withdrawal of Dalhousie
ams from affiliated league compe, and the whole effort of D.A.A.C.
placed in a strong drive to build up
 Interfaculty competition.” This
would serve to train and develop
_ first class material for future teams.

Popularity ys. Ability

He pointed out that one of the
causes of our half-hearted effort was
the comparative ease with which
players could win their D’s, and

 
   

suggested that next year’s executive

_ », ten-thirty.

ui

make some change in this system.
To the members present he added
that invariably team members chose
for captains of their teams, those
men who were most popular and not
_ those who would do the best job in
- forwarding the teams’ interests.
‘ Pre-arranged Program
‘I closing he recommended that
ext year’s executive begin working
~ NOW on next year’s program—and
to be prepared by the opening of the
fall term with plans for the whole
) year. Above all he warned against
last minute planning for games and
events and coneluded wishing next
year’s executive the best of luck.
(Continued on page four)

 

It’s happened! Yes, “our revels
now are ended” and our little term
is rounded with exams. ‘The lists

b _are posted, and with less than a
month to round up those elusive abstractions, sometimes referred to as

the Law, the rest is silence. The

__~ “glory hole” has ceased to ring with

wild argument coupled with coarse
invective, the tables in the library
groan under the weight of books,
and we curse MacLeod silently as he
turns us out at the modest hour of
These are the signs of
impending doom and the fervent
struggles of disillusioned youth as
__ they strive to overcome the peril of
a little learning. Surer than all

. this, is the fact that Clancy and
Reddin are now making their bid, ah

Even brave Rufus Rayne has retreated before the onrush of it all,
and MacCleave may be seen rushing
madly to and from his typewriter
copying vast disorderly heaps of
knowledge on spare scraps of paper
which he hopes some day *o ar-|
range. There will be in the annals)
of English jurisprudence a.” blica-|

 

Issues Statement on
Common Room Situation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Art Titus, president of the Students’ Council, who, in a statement’
to The Gazette, assured Dalhousians
that everything possible is being
done to secure the facilities of a
common school room before next
fall. In response to a rumor, said
to have circulated from sources
usually well informed, that the university will take over within the
next two or three months the King’s
Annex (on the site of the old gym),
shortly to be vacated by the Navy,
the Council has submitted application both to the Senate and to the
Board of Governors for as much
space as possible in this building.
Should this application be approved,
the Council plan to install not only
the common room but offices for itself
as well as for the D.A.A.C.,- the

 

| Happenings at the Law School

 

D.G.ASC. and the Glee Club, and perhaps the year book staff. ,

 

written and confused by Robert MacCleave.

We understand that a few brave
souls have discussed the*prospect of
the reorganization of Weldon Inn.
To those who are not familiar with
this concept, it is the (now dormant)
Law fraternity. It seems a pity that
the issue was not brought before the
Society and properly discussed.

s. * @

First year students attended the
first session of the Supreme Court
on Tuesday. The regular attendance of Law students at Court sessions is deemed a necessary part of
their training. Special privileges
are extended to students and the
grand jury box is left at their disposal. (That is, while it is not being used.)

‘The truth to tell, we must apologize for that lastitem. We feel that
it is of no interest to you; however, the column cannot be devoted
entirely to pre-examination mania
and its effect on us poor souls.. We
can offer no comfort to the strike
masses nor balm to those severally
wounded, save, in the words ‘of the|
immortal someone er oth “Say |

ae EES

 

    

 

ATTENTION, GRADUATES!

Graduates of the University have
the privilege of borrowing books
throughout the year from the Macdonald Memorial Library. The only
restriction is that a deposit is required from graduates living out of
town of $5.00 for one book to be
borrowed at a time, and $10.00 for
two books. The deposit is returned
when all books borrowed have been
returned in good condition.

Cc. L, BENNET,
Chairman.

Class ’45 Preparing For
Convocation Week;
Drafting Constitution

The ‘Convocation Committee of the
Graduating Class went into conference last Tuesday to formulate
plans nfor the social activities of
Convoeation Week. Various subcommittees were formed from the
following: Doug Clarke, Norma
Sherman, Alf Pike, Annetta Goodman, Abe MacDonald, Shirley Lund,
Art Saffrin (secretary), Steve
Bloomer (treasurer), Joan Vaughn
(vice-president) and Jim McLaren
(president) who presided at the
meeting.

A separate committee comprising
the Life Officers and Alan Blakeney,
Alf Pike, Carl Little and Alex MacDonald is engaged in drawing up a
constitution for the graduating class
which, when completed, will be submitted both to the class members
and to the Students’ Council for
ratification.

Glee Club General
Meeting Next Tuesday

To insure an early start, a general
meeting of the Glee Club, open to
all students holding a Council ticket,
is being held in the gym this coming
Tuesday, March 27th, at twelve
o’clock,

The executive of the Glee Club
has drawn up an ambitious and interesting schedule for next year, to
include a Shakesperian play, a musical production and an orchestra.

Led Debating Teams

 

   

Leader of the debate against
Acadia last week was Fred Thompcon, vice-president of Sodales, and
of the Mount Allison debaters, P.
J. O’Hearn..

 

_ STUDENTS!

| Remember that the MacDonald
‘Library will remain open during
the summer, and that it is your

||| privilege to vie its facilities.

 

JUNK, JERKS, AND JOURNALISM

 

In conventional vein, The Dalhousie Gazette editorial room

has four walls, a floor, and a

office it has desks, typewriters, telephones, and is invariably

untidy and disorganized. Yet,
Gazette office nurses a weird ¢:

McGosh, Mungo, Disantram and Dimwit are hard at work

to meet the 5 o’clock deadline.

mony reigns supreme and tempers are on an even keel.

Mungo Ponders

Slouched in a corner, Nausea Editor Mungo puffs chain-wise on borrowed cigarettes as he peruses the
“Sons of Temperance Bulletin” for
headline suggestions. He’s wondering whether to use 36 pt. Sandserf
or 60 pt. Gothic type and whether to
have as his main head: “Everybody
Out—Come on gang.” . . . “Come on
Gang—Everybody Out!” OR “Come
on Fiverybody—Out Gang”!

“Hey, J. C.—got an extra smoke?”
asks Mungo.

“Sure thing—have three,” replies
McGosh from behind a mountain of
copy... “Like another round of
cigarettes, Fellows? ‘There, help
yourselves.” And, having once more
demonstrated his philanthropism—
McGosh settles down to a fiery editorial. This week it’s titled: “Why
Expectorate on the Senior Walk?”

Sportsman Distantram is reading
out his basketball write-up for Colleague Dimwit’s approval ... “The
bespectacled Bengal cagers sunk the
elongated Cornwallis Tars in an
evenly-contested hoop classic, last
night ... In the second canto....
ete. etc.” z

Gazette Friends Invade

The ten minutes of harmony are
interrupted by the sudden but inevitable invasion of Gazette
“friends”—who always choose the
busiest hour of the busiest day for
their infiltration tactics. ‘The entire
Commerce Society (both fine fellows) is out in force, led by Alf Slyporker, chairman of the Visiting
‘Committee. Followed by diminuitive “Scorchy” Grayweight and various other “characters”,* they sit
down at the desk to hash out an addition problem (94-7=?) for Commerce IA.

“Don’t be late for your class,
boys,” McGosh hints subtly. “If
you're leaving, lock the door from
the outside.” ;

“Stinky” Lessdaughter has just
joined the fray. He is in jubilant
spirits having just skipped his 8th
lecture in one week. In his enthusiasm he spills a bottle of ink on the
Nausea page lay-out sheet and
ptoyokes un~ pected profanity from
*he mild 2 ered Mungo.

SSS

 

or... Dopes, Drips, and Deadlines

1
I
y

y]

ceiling. ~ Like every newspaper

_in its conventional bosom The
ircle of campus eccentrics.

For at least ten minutes har
“Heck—that’s a caddish trick,
Stink!” he fumes. “You darn well
| shouldn’t have did it.”

Girls From Hovel

Latest arrivals are two girls from
the Hovel who “don’t want Knowsey
to say anything about what Fay and
Danny were doing in the alcove last
night.”

Having accused McGoosh of being
prejudiced, undemocratic and cynical, the “bubble, bubble, toil and
trouble” gals scurry off to the stacks.

The “Society of Friends” continues its sadistic disruption of office
routine. The Commerce-men have
abandoned their arithmetic for some
close harmony on “The Deacon Went
Down.” In another corner a group
of Engineers keep abreast of the
times with “The Bat-Man and
Robin”—accompanying their reading '
with child-like screams of approval.

Copy-Paper Shortage

McGosh, meanwhile, has been
making a frantic but unsuccessful
search of the waste-paper basket for
his morning mail.

“Where are all those beautiful let
 

 

Question: Do you approve of the
present system of having only one
day between the last day of classes
and the first day of exams?

Answers:

Gerald McCarthy, Arts 46—Yes, I
approve of this system. My opinion is that the sooner after the end
of classes the exams begin the better. This is better than dragging
out the misery, Anything that isn’t
known by the end of classes certainly won't be known after a couple of

days of frantic study.
*

+ 4¢

Ralph Blakeney, Science °’48.—
Being only a freshman, I don’t just
know; how the system works, but it
seems that there should be more
than one day between. A few extra

s would give a chance for last
sute reviews which are always

 

 

Vox Discipuli *

No. 20

Sodales Loses Final
Debate To Acadia

Eliminated from M. I. D. L.

Sodales finished up its year with
a record of one win and two losses
in inter-collegiate debating when its
strong team of Fred Thompson and
Capt. Clinton Havey (captain) was
defeated at Acadia a week ago
Thursday, the Dal team upholding

the affirmative of the resolution,

“that at least one year of military
training must be adopted as a
peace-time measure in Canada’,

The Acadia team consisted of Haldane Reynolds and William Scott,
and judges were Rev. Edward Compton, Cornwallis; Rev. Fraser Munro,
Kentville, and Wolfville Principal
O. R. Porter, Dr. H. F. S. Thomas
was chairman of the debate.

The winners had Breviously debated the subject with a team from
Mount Allison University, and had
been defeated.

Reports from Wolfville stated the
Dalhousie team showed superior delivery; the Acadia team was effective in refuting the arguments of
the Dal team. Perhaps the defeat
at Mount Allison had not been in
vain,

 

Tom Feeney Elected to
Head the Law Society

At the last regular meeting of the
Law Society, new officers were
chosen for next year’s executive
posts. Thomas Feeney was acclaimed by all as the logical successor to
Ted King. Tom was this year’s Secretary-Treasurer, and in his new
role will serve as always the best
interests of his fellow law students,
The other offices of Vice-President,
Seeretary-Treasurer, and D.A.A.C.
representative, will be filled by Allan
Blakeney, Clinton Havey, and John
Nicholson respectively.

The-date, and other items of lesser
importance, pertaining to the Annual Law Banquet were discussed at
length, and all in all the one major
social event of the “poor lawyers”
‘promises to be a great success.

 

ters?” chirps Cricket .. .

“T know, I know,” giggles Janitress Raves. “Bib McCleak was in
here between 11 and 11:08 writing
his Rangoon tripe for the Fatuous
Page.”

“s+. Well... so what?”

“You see, he used the letters for
copy paper.”

And so it goes*-until “Sorrows

(Continued on page 3)

 

A frank unbiased
survey of campus
opinion.

 

needed no matter how much work
is done during the term. I guess to
tell the truth most people would like
te have a few days to do the work
that should have been done through

the term.
* # =
Jim MacDonald, Pre-Med. ’45—I
think we should have about a week
between classes and exams—a week
with no labs.—wouldn’t that be
Heaven! This extra week would be
used for intensive review that
couldn’t be accomplished while

classes were still in progress.
oe ee

*

Bob MacDonald, Pre-Med. *45—
Ahhhhh yes—there should be at
least three or four days and maybe
even a week between classes and exams, These extra days would give
a chance to get ready and really review for the week of misery.
Page Tw

Halousie

“THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA”

Editor-in-Chief
. JIM McLAREN (4-2236)

 

Founded 1869

News Features Sports
BILL MINGO BOB McCLEAVE ALEX FARQUHAR
BLAIR DUNLOP
Cartoons Photography Literary
BOB TUCK ERROL McDONALD JOHN HIBBITTS
Proofs i

HARRY AIKENS
ISABEL WILMOT

Reportorial
AL LOMAS LIZ REEVES (C.U.P.) JACK NICHOLSON
_ JIM CAMPBELL ART SAFFRON MARY MacDONALD
“TED SHIELDS PAT WE JACK SIDEL

CR’
DON HARRIS BERNIE CREIGHTON BILL KELLY
Business Manager: FRED MARTIN

FOR 20 ISSUES

 

Cir,
ANNETTA GOODMAN

 

DALHOUSIE

 

Sinee your twentieth issue of the Dalhousie Gazette for this year is
about to be published, I would like to use this means of thanking you and
your staff very much for your co-operation with the Students’ Council
At the same time I feel that I should convey
to you and your staff the feelings of the Council on the grand way you!
“| have not only conducted but improved The Gazette this year.
now, that our Gazette is once again a real college paper that ranks second
to none and this is due entirely to your efforts.

throughout the past year.

Again, thanks and the best of luck to you all in the future.

GAZETTE

We feel,

Very truly yours,

A, W. TITUS, President,

|
Students’ Council.

 

COLLECTIVE SHOULDERS TO THE WHEEL

 

 

 

 

First réw (left to right): Isabel Wilmot, Bill Mingo, ’Liz Reeves, Jim McLaren, Mary Mac
donald, Fred Martin.

Second row: Bernie Creighton, Blair Dunlop, John Hibbitts, Alex. Farquhar, Al Lomas.
Third row: Bob Tuck, Errol MacDonald, Bill Kelly. Insert: Anetta Goodman.

at a % *

From the Fall of ’44 to Spring of ’45 the ,
Dalhousie Gazette office, deep in the bowels |
of the Arts Building, was a continual beehive
of activity. At almost any time of day and |
mot infrequently at night, the clicking of typewriters and gabble of voices testified to the
frenzied industry of our campus news-hawks.

This year, each and every Gazetteer put
his shoulder to the wheel. Initiative, cooperation and enthusiasm—all essential features of campus journalism—were shared by
the entire staff throughout our 20-issue
schedule of publication. ,

Page formats and general Jay-outs of the
"45-46 Gazette were modernized as far as
possible. More pictures and cartoons were
publilshed than in previous years. Closer relations were established with the teaching
staff through “Faculty Questionnaires” and a
series of “Staff Sketches” by The Gazette
cartoonist.

The professional faculties (Medicine and
Law) were given more complete coverage and
recognition. A weekly gossip column (March
of Grime) as well as campus opinion surveys
(Vox Diseupuli) were introduced at our read
tion.

 

lication”.

e oF *

ers’ request. The Circulation Department was
spurred to action after long inactivity, and
exchanges, subscriptions et al mailed out immediately after publication each week. Still
further evidence of “rejuvenation” was the
prompt, regular appearance of bundled Gazettes at distribution points on both campi
every Friday afternoon.

As for our editorial policy, it has been
non-committal on some issues, frank and outspoken on others; but it has always been
altruistic and sincere. It has been consistently
directed in the best interests of the Student
Body as a whole.

In all, thanks to the combined efforts of
the entire editorial staff, The Gazette has experienced a very successful year of publica
Those of us who are graduating leave the
reins of office in capable hands. To our successors we say this: “Slumber not in the
tents of your fathers. The world is advancing.
Advance with it.” Profit from our mistakes
and follies, and strive to uphold the
traditions of “America’s Oldest Student Pub
high

 

Annual Pine Hill “At Home”

Features Shakespearian Burlesque

Perpetrate Outrage Against Immortal Bard

On Friday, March 16th, Pine Hill held its annual At Home,
the highlight of the year’s
evening was a burlesque of Shakespeare’s “Hamlet”.

Earl Laird, the Master of Cere- by conferring the Graeme Fraser
monies, first introduced Dr. Kerr, | Memorial Award upon Don Burris, a
Principal of the Divinity Hall, who, Tech student. '
made a delightful speech of Greeting After a short intermission the
to the guests. Norman Moeller,| Pine Hill players “perpetrated their
President of the Students’ Council,! outrage. against the Immortal Bard,”
then expressed thanks to all those, presenting a hilariously revised and
who contributed to the success of the | improved version of “Hamlet.” The
At Home. Allan Blakeney, Don| play was cleverly written by Harry
Burris, and John Stewart next made Aikens,,.David Coldwell and Cliff
presentations on behalf of the men | Stelart, and successfully capitalin residence, to Nita Heighton, the | ized on Elizabethan costume and
Cook; Walda Kohler, secretary to Dr. speech, as well as parallels in ‘the
Kerr; and Mrs. Grant, the Matron. | “Standard version,” for very bum
These presentations were followed' orous antithesis for the intima

 

 

 

s social activities. The feature of the}

‘| Bailey) for the throne.

 

residence characters and references
injected with keen wit and riotous
imagination into the “Improved version.”

The “Improved version” begins
with travelling players (Phil Gaudine, Bill Rudderham, C. Best) beséeching Hamlet (Cliff Stewart) for
work, and then the entrance of Hamlet’s father’s ghost (Don MacLeod),
who reveals he was murdered by
Claudius, Hamlet’s uncle (Art
To wreak
vengeance on the King, Hamlet has
the players enact the murder of his
father. The King betrays his guilt
and is slain by Hamlet along with
Ophelia (Merrill MacLeod) and her
father Polonius (Jim Frazee) Polonius’ son, Laertes (Neil Reid) plots
with the Queen (Al Smith) and the

‘ing to murder Hamlet, but all are
slain thru clever devices of the
authors.

Two gravediggers (I +e Dallien,

%

 

 

Book Review:

“Wind in the Sahara’

R. V. C. BODLEY
Published by
McClelland \& Stewart Ltd.
Toronto, $3.25

When R. V. C. Bodley, an officer
in the British Army, pondered the
possibilities of becoming a politician
after the Paris Peace Conference
in 1919, he was advised by T. E.
Laurence to join the Arabs instead.
He had not been born at North
Africa but he had gone there at an
early age and the Arabs were known
to him. Thus he finally decided to
take Laurence’s advise. He went to
Arabia and reached a place called
Djelfa, an oasis on the Sahara.
There he made friends with Atalla
Ruper of a curio shop and the Caid
Madoni, a sheep owner with whom
Bodley decided to enter into a partnership. Soon he was on the way to
becoming a desert nomad and a student of Arab character as well for
he remarks that “as the envelopes
of reserve fell apart I discovered
what real men these Arabs were.”

Their splendid dignity was not put
on;it was the breeding of generations. They were great gentlemen,
old-fashioned country gentlemen to
whom honor and a thoroughbred
horse meant more than wealth. They
had infinite kindness and charity.
There was none of the business
rivalry of Occidentals, where friend
tries to outwith friend in the
struggle for position or money. Each
one worked for a common cause—
“the tribe, the Arab, Islam”. Gradually Bodley learned the meaning of
Arab customs, Arab language, and
Arab fatalism which is a philosophy
peculiar to the desert where so much
of life depend on the vagarities of
of mind, rain nand sand.

The political situation of the
Arabs is also mentioned and it is
suggested that strife between Arabs
and Jews is provoked by outside influence and occidental polities since
in most parts of the Arab world,
Jews and Arabs work peacefully side
by side. On the whole the book
makes interesting and informative
reading. It may not make the
Westerner yearn to be an Arab, but
it does give him a glimpse of life
on the mysterious Sahara and a
chance to explore a civilization born
of the ancients.

—K. E. B.

SUPPLICATION

Let April and the white rains come
again,

With suns to warm and nourish
frozen lands. ‘

Let budding branch, and BEES a
twig unfurl

The lilae’s leaf,

The fragile, whispering bands

Of apple petals, fragrant to the
Spring;

Give brooks their mirth and birds
their songs to sing,

That man may lift his face to skies
above,

And sow in earth His little seeds of

_ love. K. B.

 

Don Miller) are used in several
scenes for mood. Two soldiers (Al
Blakeney, Stu. Wenning) provide
background, and they have an important part in development of the
plot. John Booth appears as his
own ghost. Bob MacDonald, N.
Moeller, and C. L. Bennet appear as
skulls in a graveyard,

 

March 23, 1945

 

Mayors Plas

PLAYER'S NAVY CUT CIGARETTES

SPER SN EAC ASOT EL OL

 

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

|Fader’s Drug Stores
135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD.

@

 

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

 

 

You Are Invited to Visit

Phinney’s Sheet
Music Department
where you will always find
the newest popular songs
as well as the finest standard and classical num- .

GOOD LUCK

Birks extend good
wishes for health and
happiness to the student body.

bers.
2 i

456-460 BARRINGTON ST

May we add “thank
you” for your patronage.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

THE

Rosedale Nurseries
HALIFAX DARTMOUTH

381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.
111 Spring Garden Rd. H-2200 i

 

   

 

 

FARMERS’ MILK

ALWAYS PURE

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

*

 

 

  
 

YOUR SUITS

LOOK NEWER
LAST LONGER

When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to.make fabries sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish

lines. A good wartime practice is: Buy fewer clothes
--send what you have to Cousins often.

 
   
        

  
    
    
 
  

March 28, 1945

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Three

 

GENERAL REVIEW OFFERED BY FEATURES

By BOB McCLEAVE
Feaiwres Editor, Gazette

Last week we went rashly out on
the limb, promised’ that we would
do a review of the year’s activities
in the concluding issue of The
Gazette. Later we considered that
what had been written on the spur
of the moment might be quite difficult to fairly realize in practice.
For it is the first maxim of reporting that an impartial story be told,
nd that the comment be left to the
Since there will be some
ent in this, the article is bye|, but it is made very clear right
that only activities which we
» had a better-than-average
hee to see are commemnted on
nh this space.
erefore do not include sport,
to make an obvious sugges
   
   
  
   
  
    
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
    
     
     
 
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

editors, and ‘the editor-inthat something should be done
more new students particivarious activities.
r biggest complaint is that
er four years of compulsory
ry training on the campus, no
ade ts Council committee has been
nted to deal with authorities.
@ result, the painful situation
last week that several stuwho were given time off
the term from military
flunked a test, the passing
would have meant a reduc
    
 

want to.

 

 

wound up behind a military \8-ball
with the order they would have to
complete the time the other students
had undergone. At the time of
writing, they have to complete their
training of 40 or so hours within
four weeks, which is going to be
pretty tough going.

The military authorities on this
campus would probably appreciate
a more forthright student attitude.
The matter of getting students off
from trai ing to indulge in sporting
encounters has been criticized and

caused painful altereations hither,

and yon, because somebody who
carries the water-buckets at the

| game calls the O.T.C., and not‘the

e they are shown examining the corpse of J. Wintergreen
t, who obligingly acted as target. He looks like a target, too.
we cannot supply the names of the four archesses.

 

  

  

ts

Year Advanced
Languages and History.

  
  

of M.A., M.Sc.

courses,

in the

Dalhousie Uniuersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Ge, Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
_ Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships

Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
cms Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education
2 Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern

uate cours of recognized standing, leading to degrees

_ Courses—preparatory ,to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration
“Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the

The Professional Faculties
in
aw, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A, course, average about $160 a year,
B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, ieatios for women.
Carefully supervised residential facilities’ for men.

1

  
   

   

 

 
 
     
      
     

 
   
   
 
   
      
     
   
       
 

ery.

left,
right.

president of the D.A.A.C., the only
one who should under the circumstances.
Then there is the matter of reviving college spirit. Personally
thinking, this is the most kicked
around of vague idas at Dalhousie.
Because nobody turns out for debates, because none cares to see a
football game, because there isn’t
enough cheer leading, the lid on
moans is off. Maybe there wasn’t
anything to turn out for after all.
The Round Table Group offers an
excellent example of what we're

driving at. Here the students had

a chance to joyfully enter the discussion, and as a result a larger
number turned out for this than for
debating. More people turned out
for badminton than to watch basebass. And when the inter-faculty
debates were started with Round
Table meetings after, there were
fairly large turn-outs for them.
Which proves that where the stu:
dent has a chance to participate in
activities, he will be moré interested in them. Those people who de
dulge in interfacullty debating are
going to quicken the interest of

-| their classmates whom they repre
sent to see the debates. The moral

is obvious, the lesson sometimes a
nullity—if not learned.
s * *&

Informally glancing around the

field, let’s review ome |

n informal plot, the lines

r of which weren’t heard beyond the i

fourth row, but the song and dance

numbers scored terrifically, as did| j

the slapstick. An orchid to Arthur
Hartling for his work here, which
90% thought very highly of.
Sodales—The most important move
was the institution of debating between faculties, which prompted a
pleasing amount. of interest among
the Arts and Science students, gave
scope for the development of debat
 

 

 

 

 

people of good will.

 

 

 

These pictures first appeared in
a national weekly during the
Christmas holidays.
student arrived back late.
then the shots have beamed forth
at the people in various dailies,
making excellent propaganda for
Dalhousie and publicizing the
hitherto unknown sport of archIt is reported that Robin
Hood arose from his grave and
registered as a freshman, entered
the C.O.T.C., and was made a
sharp-shooter. Anyway, presenting Miss Josephine Robertson at
Miss Marion Withrow at

 

The Coca-Cola ones, of Canada, Limited, Helifax

Not a male
Since

ing talent among the newcomers
and sophomore students, most of
whom will develop into inter-collegiate possibilitieis with such training.

Gazette—We have always held the
view that, unlike the larger modern
newspapers which are only a medium of getting a report of the
day’s occurrence to the public, the
members of a college newspaper and
what goes on in that newspaper are
newsworthy.

We would like to plug the work
of Saffron for the Engineers, Campbell for Medicine, and Nicholson for
Law who gave columns which were
readable by the whole student body,
not just the faculties they represented.

Orchids to McLaren for putting

 

so much time into his work. And the

 
   
   
   
 

 

 
   
     
   
   
 
 
 

 
 

 

same goes to Bill Mingo, who in his
first year of working for a news- |
paper took upon himself the duties
of news editor with facility and a
great deal of ability. Posies to Farquhar and Dunlop. ey

s yO ee

4a OF allie enjoy a friendly pause

Friendliness enters the picture at the words Have @ Coke.
Irs a happy custom, everywhere, for people to meet together
oyer frosty bottles of ice-cold Coca-Cola, In many lands
around the globe, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes
—has become an everyday high-sign of friendliness among

 
 

 

Girls’ Activities—This demands a
separate paragraph, whether the
girls were contributing to the Gazette, debating, or indulging in
sports activities. As a collective
body, the girls can usually accomplish more than the boys, because
they have their own residence, hence
become a more solid organization
behind any activity.

Which naturally brings us to the

third point. Wherever students
are gathered together, have a better
chance of facing activities in a
group, there is a better chance for
success in that activity. We mention particularly the Engineers, who
—all kidding aside—really do a
grand job in general campus activities, as the girls do, because they
do their work in a group spirit. Example, running the stage properties

 
   
   
   
   
 

Illustrating that
every editor somewhere faces the
horns of a dilemma,
Gazette editor J. C.
McLaren, alias J.
Cricket MeGosh, sits
beside the head of
a bull which he had
just won in a raffle.
As a result, the Gazette staff dined well
on bull throughout
the winter, and then
—coming to the end
of its supply--ceased
publishing.— (Other
papers, please note
this moral lesson),

 

 
 

eo

of a Glee Club show with ability,
and nary a hitch in the proceedings.

Before concluding, we would like
to comment on the elections. Again,
for the third or fourth year in a
row, the Medical bloe triumphed.

 

You're my kind a - Have a Coca-Cola _

  
 
 
 
 
  

; esata foxpopalaraame: ro
fae way mou hac Coe co
called Coke,

692

EDITOR

‘We do not agree with eritics who
see in “bloc” politics a wrong per se.
Obviously the Meds knew their candidates, and were perfectly willing
to bet on them doing a good job.
We can only add that Arts and Science, if they wish to control campus
politics, should elect an Arts and
Science man with capabilities.

 

Junk, Jerks-
(Continued from page 1)
vanquished, labors ended, dead-line
passed.”

There remain numerous trips to
and from MecCurdy’s; hours of patient vigil over the type forms; correction and re-correction of proofs.
Then, at long last, The Gazette goes
to press,

Efferts Appreciated

Weary from our labors, we stagger into the gym store as two blasé
habitués of the stacks are giving
The Gazette a critical “once over.”

“What a terrible issue,” says one.
“Just look! two commas and a dash ,
left out of the Nausea page.” *

“Yes,” grunts the other. ‘Trouble
is they don’t put enough time on it.”

CASINO

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday

“Your a Lucky
#ellow Mr. Smith”

and

The Scarlet Claw
*

Wednes., Thursday, Friday

“Sandiago I Love
You”

 

and

“She’s My Gal”

 

ORPHEUS

Mon. — Tues. — Wed.
“THE MASKED WHISTLER”
“THE SADDLE-LEATHER
LAW”

Thurs. — Fri. — Sat.
“THE TOWN WENT WILD”
“GHOST GUNS”

 

   

‘GARRICK

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday
“LAKE PLACID SERENADE”
with
Rhuba Ralston and Vera Vague

   
 
    
   
    

 

Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
“JOURNEY FOR MARGARET”
“PANAMA HATTIE”

CAPIFOR
“For Whom
| the Bell
Tolls”

 
Page Four

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

SPORTS

REVIEWED by Farquhar and Dunlop

. Varsity Victorious

Again it was proven that a well-knit team of mediocre players is
better than an aggregation of individual stars. This was shown yesterday
when the Varsity Basketball Tigers whipped the Interfaculty All-Stars
by a 68—29 score. So, to end much controversy, the Varsity squad has
shown that it has much the better team. Possibly, the All-Stars still feel
that they can make a better = Showing and might demand a return match
in the near future.

Hats Off!

When spectators and players alike are enjoying a game, whether it
be football, hockey basketball, badminton or what have you, they little
think of the persons responsible for the teams out there. Responsibility
for the arranging of meals, trips, issuing of equipment, hiring of
referees, looking after the teams’ finances and the general comfort of
the athletes, lies with the managers, who gain little or no acclamation.
Here, in our last harangue of the year, we wish, in behalf of such individuals as Norma Sherman, manager of girls’ basketball teams; Jim
MacDonald, manager of footall, and his assistant, Allan Ernst; Virbinia
Phillips, efficient badminton manager; Bill Mingo, basketball manager,
and Don Harris, hockey manager. Thanks to those students who undertook big tasks, fulfilled them efficiently, and contributed largely to any
success of the teams.

May we suggest here that any persons who are vitally interested in
Dalhousie athléties, but yet do not take the. active part, are the ideal individuals for managerial posts. If you are non-participants, but wish
to show your interest in promoting sport, see Don Harris, next year’s
D.A.A.C. prexie.

Girls Bring Home the Bacon.

It had to’be left to the co-eds—they brought two city basketball
championships to Dal this season. The senior team easily copped the
title; while the second squad has not lost a game in city competition.
Thus, in looking back, we discover that our teams have won three city
titles in all, two in basketball and one in football. Although our hoop and
ice squads met with doubtful success, our sports record as it puts could
be much worse.

College Spirit—More Spirited.

And now may we comment on the apparent enlivening of spirit at
Dal. Attendance by students at athletic functions this year was upped
greatly from past years. Even during the football season, when Jupiter
Pluvius gave both forth jubilantly, more than a hundred of spectators
turned up at every game, At Acadia interest reached a peak that has
been unrivalled for many a moon. ;

At both girls’ and boys’ basketball games, many interested supporters
were in attendance (especially at the Mt. A. girls’ game when the Med
School were admitted 100% strong). However, there is room for great
improvement!

In concluding for the year, may we express the one hope that this

, spark of spirit will not be extinguished, but will thrive, and in succeeding
years blaze into a student enthusiasm that will leave nothing to be|
desired,

fore the meeting closed Jack

Clark Report -
(Continued from page one)

Reports on the various team activities were read by the managers.

Boudreau cheerleader for the D.A.
A.C., proposed a vote of thanks to
Doug. Clark and this year’s D.A.A.C.
executive.

Blair Dunlop for interfaculty sport,
Jim MacDonald for football, Don
Harris for hockey, and Bill Mingo
for basketball. As the D.A.A.C. program is not over, (both a swimming
and boxing meet this weekend) no
financial report could be given.

Felt D’s were awarded then to the
members of the various teams. Be
Engineers Whip Meds
But Lose Series

The Boilermakers at last gained
revenge against the Meds by trouneing them 4-2 but, by virtue of their
win 4-0 on Friday the Meds are now
the champions of the interfaculty
hockey league. Star for the Meds
was Moreside, while Blakeney’s two
goals sparked the boilermakers.

Goals for the Meds were scored
by Moreside and Roy, for the Engineers Chapman, Clarke, and two by
| Blakeney.

Jerry Naugler’s |)
Orchestra

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

 

 

 

as

  

\ ee?
Se TUT EE

 

March 23, 1945

 

Dal To Be Hosts in Boxing Tourney

 

Presenting .. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- DOUG CLARKE

The above is none other than that
distinguished graduating Engineer,
Doug Clark, efficient President of
the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic
Club for the past year.

Doug came to us from “Newfie”,
three years ago, and gained all his
preliminary education in St. Johns,
where he shone in the sports field
in many activities. He spent many
years at Bishop Field College and
participated on various school teams
namely soccer, basketball, hockey
and track. On the gridiron he performed effectively the duties of outside left forward and contributed
largely to his team’s winning the St.
Johns High School championship in
1938. On the basketball court he
played guard for four years, and on
the ice, Doug played his usual steady
and dependable game for four years
on the school team, Also Doug was
a valued member of the track team,
being a star distance runner. In the
High School five mile cross-country
run, he set a record that still stands:
28’ 42",

Active at Memorial

From this preparatory institution,
Doug transferred to Memorial College where he undertook a science
and pre-medical course. With his
studies, he managed to take part in
various college athletics, starring for
three years on the succer squad, one
year on the hoop squad and two
years on the varsity ice squad. Outside the college, he played tennis
with the Riverdale Tennis Club; a
star third-baseman in the City senior
softball league In an indoor track
meet held at St. Johns in 1939 Doug
came out the winner in the mile
race, and in very good time too.

Tn the fall of ’42 Doug journeyed
to Dalhousie, where he entered the

field of Engineering and soon made |

his presence felt in campus affairs,
and became one of the most popular
members of the Engineering Society.
In his first year at Dal, Doug played Intermediate Basketball and was
elected to represent the Engineers on
the D.A.A.C. Last year he played

squad, and was the extremely efficient manager of the hockey team.

 

Hoopsters Drop Tilt
To Speedy St. F. X. U.
Aggregation 46-29

In a fast game played before a
fairly large audience, Dalhousie
Tigers ended their basketball season
with a sound defeat at the hands of
a fighting St. F. X. quintet. The
Antigonish hoopsters took advantage
of many breaks and the poor guarding of the Tigers to clinch the game.

The first half saw two well-matched teams fight for each basket and
Dalsoon had a lead of seven points.
However, St. F.X. came back fast,
and led by Frank Mooney soon overcame the Bengals and seized a
handy lead of eight points. This
lead seemed to discourage the Tigers
and the frame ended 30-18.
Cunningham Stars

The second canto
saw play more
even throughout,
although St. F. X.
outscored Dal 1611. The Tigers
were not able to
get the ball past
the tall guards who
stopped many
plays and whipped
the ball speedily
up the floor for baskets. It was in
this frame that Phil Mifflin, classy
St. F. X. forward suffered a badly
sprained ankle and had to retire
from the match. After a few last
minute baskets that had no effect on
the outcome, the game ended with
St. F. X. leading.

The game was very clean, with
only five fouls handed out. Alf
Cunningham starred for Dal and
with.his uncanny shooting netted 12
points. The two Mooneys, Frank
and Fraser, shone for St. F.X., Frank
winning the match himself with 20
points while Fraser had 12.

Lineups: Dal — Cunningham, 12;
Farquhar, 11; Dunlop, 10; Pope,
Smith, Robinson, Cooley; 2; Clarke,
Algee, Giffin, 4.

St. F. X—Richie, 4; Killorne, 2;
Frank Mooney, 20; Fraser Mooney,
12;Mae Adam, Kyte, 4; George, 2;
Collate 2; Mifflin.

 

 

 

St. F. X., U.N. B., St. Mary's and
Dal Pugilists To Trade Blows
In Fistic Meet Here Saturday Night

Hoping to avenge themselves for the recent defeats handed
them at U.N.B. last Saturday, the Dal boxers will be hosts to
the various Maritime colleges at a boxing meet to be held in
the Gym this Saturday night. Only three Dal boxers were
present at U.N.B., as Hartling’s plane failed to make the
scheduled flight. Of those present, Feanny suffered defeat
from Art Fletcher; Bryce Burgess was handed a setback from _
the Maritime featherweight champ, and Zen Graves lost a close.
decision to a U.N.B. boxer.

Dal Coeds Win City
Senior Hoop Title

Girls ‘basketball ended very satisfactorily for Dal last Thursday

 

 

eve

The coming meet will have oe
Mary’s, U.N.B., St. F. X. and ei
well represented. St. F. X. was
presented at U.NB but it is said #

‘they haye a classy team prepared _
for the meet. St. Mary’s have ee
that they are to be feared by

bart
when the two teams capped the city | 00d showing at U.N.B. while U.N tisy*
championship in their respective] Won the meet which took Dias
divisions. The first game found| their own college. St. F. X. have

always had smart boxing teams ma

it is expected that this year’s i
will be no exception. Such ver
tile athletes as “Tink” Kyte and Al
McAdam are sure to give a fine’

count of themselves. Dal ce! ;
will have to improve during ‘this’
week if they wish to make a goo¢ om
showing. aetah

Dal’s second team up against the
second team of Queen Elizabeth.
The game was slow and play was
fairly even, most of the points being scored by hard-working individuals rather than as a result of teamwork, Virginia Phillips led her
team in scoring with nine points.

Line-up: L, Rattie 6, V. Phillips
9, I. Robinson 4, J. Silver, N. Silver,
M. Macpherson, H. Prentice,

In the second game the Grads of
Q.E.H. met Dal’s first team, and
came out at the short end of a 14-6
score. ,The game was featured by
close guarding as the low score indicates. Joyce Hart played well and
was high scorer with 8 points. Syb
Pentz and Laurie Bisset turned in
very steady guarding games, the
latter bringing to a close her highly commendable career as. centre
guard during her four years at Dalhousie.

Line-up: J. Hart 8, S. Jones 2, N.
Herman 4, J. Robertson, S. Pentz, L.
Bisset.

   
 

 

exhibition, and good crowds are ©: Ene

pected. This is the first time in a
number of years that Dalhousie]
sponsored a Maritime Intercolleg
Boxing meet; will Dalhousians,
and present, help to make it a
cess with their attendance?

   
   
  

Amaying...what

VERITHINEESS

can dofor you!

beet 4
Much time and labor has been put a
to use in arranging this gala box

“Well, I guess I might as well put
the motion before ‘the house,” said
the chorus girl as she danced onto

   
  
  

is more accurate because
VERITHIN

the stage.

— holds a fine point for over
4,000 check marks before
it needs resharpening.

  

 

4 yeh
By defeating Freshmen, 42: 43-28, ,
Monday afternoon, Meds went one|

up in the best of three series for the }|

Interfaculty basketball title; Frosh
lost the game in the first half when
they failed to pass or guard properly
but they came back strong in the
second frame to take the canto 2216. Eighteen fouls were handed out
while only three were scored.
Blakeney played a smart game for
the Frosh, while Stevenson and
Deacon were outstanding for the

|Meds.. ,

Lineups: Frosh—Potechin, 1; Bell,

| 8; Giffin, 7; Lightfoot, 2; Creighton;
one game for the varsity basketball |

Kenty, 6; Blakeney, 2; Lamont.
Meds—McLennan, 6; Roy; Deacon
12; Moffat, Stevenson, 14; Mac
He has been a valued member of two | Kenizie, 6; Epstein, Cox, 4,

Engineers’
a stalwart on their hoop squad.
This year he has really proved his

worth in carrying out his duties as!

President of the D.A.A.C. He was
instrumental in getting a soccer
team organized and _ incidentally
played on the squad. Under his

guidance, the Athletic Club has completed a successful season; Interfaculty sport has experience the best

 

interfaculty teams and | —

year in ages; Boxing has been reintroduced and there have been many
other great improvements. With his
duties in this field, Doug has also
served on the Students’ Council
representing the Engineers and has
been a member of the Gym Committee, Chairman of the Awards Committee, and an active member of the
Council Executive.

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

A good slogan in war or peace:

“Say Schwartz and be

Sure”. We urge it for your protection that you may be
assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee,
Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and

Dried Fruits.

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
) Pounded in Halifax in 1841

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
       
       
      
       
 
         
         

  
  
 
     
    
   

Incomparable

Quality !
You can count on the type
of footwear you buy at
SHANE’S SHOE STORE
where we specialize in
HIGH GRADE SHOES
ONLY. Select from Can
are permanent when
written with
VERITHIN.
Won’t smear
or run under
moist hands,
rain or water.

ada’s Best... “HARTT” 10¢ EACH—Less la Quantities
.. . “SCOTT: McHALE” ¥
Go na a Vana CHEMI-SEALED

== VEAITHIN

COLORED PENCILS

Shane’s Shoe Store

397 BARRINGTON ST.
HALIFAX

 

 

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
eisp, crunchy graham —_ healthful RV

Ap ee

ee

 

 

 
