 

  

 

 

   
    
    
   
   
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 

 

VOL. LXXVI

4

 

ee
. a re

uh AMERICA’S OLDEST
OVER 75 YEARS DEVOTED TO THE

  
 
  
     

   
 

 

STUDENT PUBLICATION

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 12, 1945

te

INTERESTS OF THE STUDENT BODY

 
  

   

 

MEETING ||
CLASS °45_

THURSDAYS
JAN. 18
at 12.00 Noon

in

ARTS BLDG

No. 10

 

Arts and Science

Holding “Studley Ball”

In Gym Tonight —
The Faculty of Arts and Science

are holding their annual dance in

- the gym. tonight. This first Dal
housie dance of the New xear,
backed strongly by the Studleyites,
promises to be a gala occasion for
all the college Joes and their Joans
who attend.

A very special wish for full attendarice from the Forrest Campus
is sincerely the aim of the Arts and
Science students, who want their
dance to be a step in breaking down
the faculty banners of the two
campuses and to promote friendship

between all Dalhousians.

Jerry Naughler’s orchestra will be

there to supply music which assures |

dancing pleasure, and as an added
attraction there will be soft lights!
The decorations will inelude pencil
sketches of many well known students of Dalhousie.
The ‘chaperones for the dance
will be: Dr. and Mrs. Forhan, Prof.

| and Mrs. Bennet, and Dr. and Mrs.

Hayes. _ r
Boys! Be sure to turn out with

your “Dalhousie Dream Girl’ and
enjoy this dance, so carefully plan
ned by: Connie Archibald, Jack
Boudreau, Barbata White, “Jo”
Robertson, Art. Hartling, Jean

Stirling and the drawings by Ken

Plans Arranged for
Debating Activities
Throughout Term

At long last interfacultly debating

 

is a reality. Within the next two or

three weeks it is hoped to commence
these breat battles of wit and loquacity. At this writing there are

entries from Arts and Science, En
gineering, and Law. Any others
wishing to participate are welcome
to do so, but entries must be in by
Tuesday, Jan. 16. On that date
teams will be chosen and subjects

_ named and a schedule worked out.

Debating Trials
At the same time Sodales will
hold trials for intercollegiate com
petition in the Arts building at 12.00.

Those trying for positions on the

two teams may discuss, pro and con,

the topic, “Resolved that British
policy is to the best interests of the
United Nations,” speeches being no
more than five minutes in length.

Four debaters are needed for the
two teams, one taking to the airwaves in Halifax, the other carrying
the debate to Acadia.

Interfaculty Debates

_ Interfaculty debating teams will
consist of three members each. From

i, Arts and Science there are six en
tries — Farquhar, Mingo, Sanders,

 __- Rattee, Mendelson and Harris.

Representing Engineering are Saffron, Proctor, Sulsky, E. MacDon
tries are not definitely known, and

nothing has been heard from the

Meds, Commerce or Freshmen.

Come on, Dal, let’s show a little in
ix (\ terest in a vital part of our college
activities! NN

PAINTING EXHIBIT |

 

A loan collection of reproduc
PVE. S

OBJECTIONS RAISED AGAINST\Ottawa Orders
PROPOSED COMMON ROOM SITE

Students’ Council Still Backing Scheme

To date all efforts have failed to gain the University’s

Disbandment

of U.AT.C.

Entire Personnel of Squadron Affected
44 Diaihsusis Trainees Discharged; To Be Absorbed in C.O.T.C.

approval of the students’ common room as proposed at the last
meeting of the Students’ Council, and unanimously endorsed by
that body. In a statement to The Gazette, President Art Titus
admitted that the University’s objections were not so much to
the scheme itself, but to its situation in the lower gym in the
old band room, which was to be extended and remodeled for the
purpose. The President, however, vigorously reaffirmed the

determination of the Council to surmount these and any other

obstacles and secure for the students the facilities they desire.

 

Last week, by an order-in-council from Ottawa, the U.A.S. (University Air Squadron,
better known as the University Air Training Corps), was officially disbanded. In conjunction
with other college squadrens across the nation, No. 16 Squadron at Dalhousie has ceased to
exist, and its forty-four members have been discharged outright. The reason for this action

rests in the dissolution of the Empire Air Training Scheme.

Since the U.A.S. was inaugur- :

ated primarily as a recruiting organization, it was felt that after the Government had discontinued its training of air personnel it had fulfilled its purpose and there was no longer

——-————@any need for its existence.

Additional Business at
January 7th Meeting

(1) News of our long lost Year
Book has finally been had. It has}
finally reached the binders where it
is progressing as well as can be expected.

(2) Discussion held considering
ways to have the Year Book paid
for along with registration fees.
Systems used in other universities
considered.

(3) To date all efforts of the Student Council to secure a common

‘room for the students have failed.

(See news story).

(4) Permission asked for and
granted to hold dances on the following dates:

Jan. 12—Studley Ball, presented

by Arts and Scieince Society.

Jan. 26—Boilermakers’ Ball, pre\ sented by the Engineering So
ciety.

Feb. 16—Junioir Prom.

March 12—Med Ball.

(5) Skating—It was moved and
seconded that we renew the skating
arrangement at the Arena, the
President and Secretary-Treasurer
having power to make any minor
adjustments.

(6) Report given by Ted King on
the N.F.C.U.S. Conference held at
London during the Christmas vacation. A vote of thanks was given
to Ted King and Don Smith for so
ably representing Dalhousie at the

\

Lower Gym Impractical
Briefly, these objections contended that the old band room would be

-highly unsuitable because:

1. Its extension would cut down
the size of the boys’ locker room.

2. It would be undesirable, to say
the least, to have a recreation center for mixed company within hearing distance of the boys’ locker
Yoom.

3. The isolated entrance to the
band room (a door on the south side
of the gym), as well as the isolated
character of the band room itself,
would prevent any adequate supervision of the activities within the
room. Also, it would be difficult to
arrange for someone to look after
the equipment of the common room.
* 4. Although no examination of
the basement of the gym has been
made yet by qualified health authorities, it has been pointed out that
the atmosphere of the lower gym
might be too damp and musty for
continual student congregation there.

Real Objection Not Mentioned

In a reply to the above objections,
Arthur Hartling, president of the
Glee Club, and the originator of
the common room scheme, narrowed
them all down to one not mentioned
above. It is not a question whether
the present proposal is impossible
but whether it is necessary.

There is considerable reason for
believing that another building,
suitable not only for a common
room, but for other student facilities as well, may shortly be turned

 

DALHOUSIE DELEGATES RETURN
FROM SUCCESSFUL N. F.C. U. S. PARLEYS

 

Ted King, 3rd year law student, and Don Smith, 3rd year med. student,
who were sent by the Students’ Council to the N.F.C.U.S. convention, held
at the University of Western Ontario, London, in the last week of December. King gave a very interesting report of the activities of the convention to the Council at last Sunday’s meeting.

For the benefit of those who are not familiar with the
N.F.C.U.S. it is pointed out that a national organization of
university students was organized many years back with membership consisting of student bodies from all universities and
colleges in Canada. The purpose of this organization is to bring
representatives of all student bodies together to air their views
on student activities and organizations.

The conference opened at the,and assimiliation problems on the
University of Western Ontario at|campus. The delegates felt that the

Training Course Continues
Although it had been intimated,
even as late as last fall, tht the unit
would continue regular training at
universities as a source of recruits
for the peace time air force, both

| civil and military, as well as an in_strument to encourage interest in

these forces, all these plans have
been rejected by the order of last
week. The future of the Air Cadets
of Canada is at the present assured,
even though its members will now
be unable to continue this training
at university.

The forty-four members discharged from the U. A. S. at-Dalhousie will be required to begin service training immediately in one of
the two remaining units. But since
the U. N. T. D., not desiring to disturb a prearranged schedule of
drills, has refused to accept any of
the dischargees, this training will
have to be taken in the C. O. T. C.
The latter unit has agreed to cooperate.

Situation Further Complicated

The recent amendment to University Regulations (which authorized
a member of a unit, who has successfully completed two years of
training, to undergo only 60 hours of
parades in his third year instead of
the usual 110 further complicates
the situation.

Unable To Pass Tests

According to the latest word
available from the military, former

(U. A. T. C. personnel concerned will

recent N.F.C.U.S. Conference.

  
 
  

 

R.T. Group Reorganized

Representatives of Can.

Parties to Speak

The Round Table Group has again
come to life. Due to the departure
of the chairman, Abe Sheffman, an
election was held on Wed., Jan. 10,
1945 and the new executive is:
President - Don Harris; Vice-president - Harry Zappler; Secretary Treasurer - Allan Blakeney.

After the election future plans
were discussed and plans were made

for a political rally next Wed., Jan.

17, 1945 at 7:30. It is planned to
have speakers from the four major
parties, Liberals, Progressive Conservatives, C. C. F. and Labour Progressives present at the meeting.
The first part of the meeting will be
a four-way discussion by the parties

on their future plans and policies. |

Following that, the floor will be
thrown open to a general discussion
with audience and speakers participating. — ?
Prof. Wilson To Speak
At later meetings the group hopes
to study each party platform as

j well as discussing current events.
‘student | One of the speakers at a future
on ex- | meeting will be

ig ‘ | who will s) eae)

Professor Wilson,
on “The Future Of

 

 

y of |The Post-War World”

amma f
- . +
id % ‘ 5
a < p
i [ ‘
Li fl

    

   

aie rae
baa ‘

   

 
 

<tr! Sa ae ie ey |

  

 

over to the university, even as soon
as this coming summer. Foundation
for this report has come from
several reliable quarters.

Should this transaction take place,
any present expenditure on a common room would be futile. Hartling,
fully appreciating this situation, is
asking the university to make this
agreement: ‘If definite information
regarding the transfer of this building to Dalhousié is not received before July 30th, the University will
give the go-ahead signal to his plans
as they stand now’.

oe * * *
Our Apologies

The Gazette apologizes to all concerned for its misinterpretation of
facts in the student “common room”
story published in our last issue.
We had been incorrectly informed
that council and university authorities had agreed on the proposed
construction.

by Dal students as regards taking
part in extra curricular activities
and ways were sought to combat it.
It was felt that most college studens do not take sufficient interest
in events of national and worldwide
importance. The meeting was convineed that increased student participation in such activities as debating and discussions would increase
their interest, and, as well, their
knowledge. The meeting was further convinced that through co-operation between Sodales and the Round
(Continnec-on page 4)

  

London on Dec. 28, and lasted till
the evening of Dec. 30th. Attending
were almost every university in
Canada.

Your representatives from Dal
were Ted King and Don Smith. All
the other representatives were
either presidents or members of
their respective students’ councils.

Interesting Agenda

The agenda: (1.) revision of the
N. T. C. U. S. constitution. (2.) Discussion of various students’ governments and problems on the campus.
(4.) Examination of national selective service and military training
regulations on university students.
(5.) Diseussion of Canadian educational problems from a national
viewpoint, and of exchange scholarships. (7.) Election of officers.
Veteran Rehabilitation Considered

A very serious consideration was
given to war veteran rehabilitation

 

  

YEAR BOOK STAFF

The Editorial Staff of the Dalhousie Year Book (’45 edition)
has been assembled and comprises the following:

Co-Editers: Bill Pope and Anetta Goodman.

Asst. Editor: Joyce Nicholson.

Features: Isabel Wilmot. |

The Photographic department
will be directed by Mary MacDonald, Connie Archibald and
Flora Reid, while Alan Blakeney
is in charge of Circulation. The

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

|
ee ~~ |be required to pass the army test
Dominion Government should assist

in every way possible to continue or
to pursue university training, and
they wholeheartedly commended the
government for their action on the
question so far. The conference
recommended that, wherever necessary or desired, veterans’ clubs and
societies be set up on the campus
and given the same treatment and

(See page 2)

 

 

The fruits of joining CAMSI are
already obvious. Two issues of the
CAMSI journal has already reached
the medical students and they are
accompanied by The Journal of the
Canadian Medical Services. Formerly this valuable material was not
available here. Moreover the distinct value of a journal expressly
for students and written in both
English and French is obvious, for
it unites medical students not only
of different regions but of two languages.

oe + *

Another phase of student activities to bear fruit is the matter of
memographed notes. There are in
all institutionsof learning teachers
who are renowned through their in
ability to give interesting lectures.

Happenings at Med School

By PARACELSUS THE GREAT.

 

(T. O. E. T.) at the end of the year
in order to secure the privilege of
shorter training hours they would
otherwise have had, had the U. A. S.
not been disbanded. For these tests
they have had little or no instruction.

It is quite possible, therefore, that
the majority of the dischargees will
find that their previous training is of
little practical benefit and that they
will have to begin again from funda
 

The other day the remark was
made that all of the professors at
medical school give interesting lectures—when those who read notes
look up from their reading and
launch forth extemporaneously. Not
all, of course, read notes to begin
with, and some read well. But how
much better it would be if all the
notes now read out were mimeographed and placed in the hands of
all students.

It is a happy thing to see how in
more and more subjects mimeo
graphed notes are being used, to
free the professor from the necessity of reading word for word and
the students from copying their inaccurate reflections of what has
been read.
  
  

vite wy

   
 
  
 
  
     
     
   
     

41869 “THE OLDEST COLLEGE PAPER IN AMERICA”
_____ Editorial Room, Arts Bldg.: Phone 3-7098
per JIM McLAREN (4-2236)

Features Sports
BOB McCLEAVE ALEX FARQUHAR
; BLAIR DUNLOP
Photography Literary
ERROL McDONALD JOHN HIBBITTS
AIKEN -iniemchdassil avenenast GOODMAN
ype ISABEL WILMOT
Reportorial
- AL LOMAS LIZ REEVES (C.U.P.) JACK NICHOLSON
_ JIM CAMPBELL ART BARERON MARY MacDONALD
PAT CREWE JACK SIDEL

Roe: Business Manager: FRED MARTIN

EDUCATION AND NATIONAL SOLIDARITY

_ “During a recent vacation in the provinces of Ontario and
Ri Quebec, this writer became increasingly aware of the rivalry
. and misunderstanding which is slowly but surely destroying
' the myth of National Unity in Canada. The situation, which
_ eentres about the frictional relations of Anglo-Canadians with
their French-speaking countrymen, extends far beyond political
__ and religious altercations. Aggravated on all issues by mutual
misunderstanding and disrespect, it is widening a breach
ae which might well prove irreparable.

ab The term “Canadian” is an ironic one.

  
  

ie It comprises two
_ __ yitally different peoples, Anglo- and French-Canadians, with
ate: « characteristics — peoples who are geographically
 segrated but, technically, as “Canadians”, subject to the dictates
of a “national” government. The Quebecer (or French-Canadian), securely rooted to the soil of his homeland, has had no
opportunity to appreciate the traditions and loyalties of the
yest of Canada. Nor has the provincial-conscious AngloCanadian made any sincere effort to understand the traditions
and loyalties of the Quebecer. Rather he has fanatically and
-_ geaselessly criticized and abused him and has urged that he
forget his religious and cultural ties for the “common good”.
- Sounds all right .. . but he forgets, all along, that it is quite
impossible to pull a camel through the eye of a needle.
~~ There. must, on the other hand, be a practical, workable
 golution to the situation without attacking the impregnable,
age-old traditions of the French-Canadian.
_--_—-—s- The Province of Quebec, as the nucleus of French-Canada,
is metaphorically bound by a strong chain of varied links in| eluding “religion”, “culture”, “history” and “education” —all of
| which restrict her absorption into the so-called national life
of the Dominion as a whole. Education constitutes the weakest,
- most approachable link in this chain. Education, applied from
_ within and from without, is the only means capable of breaking
| the chain of separation. It is education which we, as Canadians
| must employ practically and realistically to this end.
‘Those of us fortunate enough to attend university in wartime should grasp the seriousness of the situation. We must
become conscious of the instability of a national life filled with
_ prejudice and misunderstanding. We must endeavour to sacrifice “sectional” feeling in the interests of national unity. We
must face the problems in an unbiased perspective, and we must
educate ourselves and our fellow Canadians to the realization
) of national unanimity.
ere, In our nation’s future lies one of two things:—CHAOS or
$OLIDARITY.
_ ~~ Which will it be... ?

 
    
 
 

wes

 

selves, and the government department of Veterans Affairs.
Discussion Deferred

It was felt that the question of
military training on the campus
was an extremely delicate one, and
so, with selective service regulations, Was referred back for further
consideration to a committee, which
will submit a report later in the
year.

 

as Dalhousie Delegates -ee: (Continued from page 1)
_-_-made subject to the same controls
_as other undergraduate organizations.
It also recommended the setting

up of a standing committee on vet; _erans’ affairs in universities, to in7 hie elude members of the faculty, the
student body, the veterans them
 

 

   
   

   

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

   
    
   

    
   
 

Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarships
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University

   
  
 
 
  

  
 

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Comm., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, P , Education

_ Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern
Graduate Co ie er oe. gree
urses of recognized standing, leadi
7 ea gz ng to de 8

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties
Course in Public Administration
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the

  
  
    
    
  
 
  

  
  
  

  
 

    
   
    
  
  
 

  

The Professional Faculties —
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation

   

  
 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160
, in the B.Se. course, about $190 a year. Tee
Residence

 
  
   
   

eT Pe, ere E
wer : 1 :

| possible.

| wi

t

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Ottawa Calling

(“Inside” News from the Political Front)
A CANADIAN UNIVERSITY PRESS FEATURE
By NEIL MacDONALD

THE McNAUGHTON PUZZLE

The by-election in Grey North, called for February 5, is
giving the political prophets of Ottawa some headaches.
General McNaughton, the Minister of National Defence, is the
Liberal candidate, nominated when the Liberal member resigned
to open a seat for the General, who has to find himself a seat
in order to remain a Cabinet Minister. McNaughton is opposed
by a strong Progressive Conservative candidate, who retired
from the mayoralty of Owen Sound in order to enter the
Federal field. The Cooperative Commonwealth Federation has
also indicated its intention of running a candidate.

One of the questions which is@—
bothering the political prophets is
how the Liberals are going to develop any campaign against Mr.
Case, except t6 say that Liberals
should vote for the Liberal candidate and that General McNaughton’s
election is necessary for the efficient
prosecution of the war. In the last
two municipal elections, Garfield
Case has been made mayor by acclamation, and it is conceded that,
by leaving the federal field, he
could have run as a last minute candidate and defeated anyone else.

DUBIOUS OF WIN

Some sources have gone so far as}
to say that the Liberals have unofficially become dubious about
earrying Grey North. They point
out that this constituency had a
“Yes” vote on the plebiscite of almost 10 to 1, and that its enlistment
record is very high. It is almost
impossible to determine at this date
which of the three parties will benefit by the three-way split of the
vote.

If the government sees that it
cannot win Grey North, there will be
two choices open to it: it can sacrifice General McNaughton, perhaps
replacing him by Colonel Ralston, or
it can forestall the February 5 byelection by requesting the dissolution of parliament. A few more
months of life might mean a great
deal.

This writer’s guess, for what it is
worth, is that no one has yet decided what course is to be followed.
The Prime Minister has a habit of | pedient outgrowth of a number of
surprising everyone, including his! alternative possibilities, all of which
intimates, with a sudden decision,| have been developed up until the

but that sudden decision is the ex-| final moment of decision.

ZDANIA POZYTECZNE

What I want to know is: Who selects the “Useful and Necessary Expressions” in foreign phrase-books? How shamefully neglected are the
painstaking efforts of this unsung genius! How little appreciated is the
infinite patience, the limitless experience he must have in order to provide the traveller with useful and necessary expressions for every conceivable situation! 7

An illustration: Among the “Idioms and Common Expressions” in one
well-known foreign-language pocket dictionary, we find not only the
foreign equivalents for such everyday phrases as, “What do you call
that?” “What do you mean?” “Is it possible?” etc., phrases which even
you or I might think of, but also these: “The ship draws too much water.”
“My blood boiled within me.” “The horse fell with him.” “I don’t care a
fig for him.”

Under the heading, “Travel by Sea‘, the foreign-phrase-book writer
reveals the full extent of his skill. The reader’s heart is filled with grateful appreciation for the understanding soul who knows, perhaps from his
own. bitter experience, just what words are needed at such a time. Here
the unfortunate traveller is taught appropriate equivalents for: “The sea
is rough.” “A gale is blowing.” “The wind is against us.” “So much
the worse; we shall have a long passage.” “I feel seasick.” “Where is the
W.C.?” He has vomited.” ‘Call the stewardess.” ‘Where is my cabin?”
“I want to go down into the cabin.” “Here we are arrived.” “I feel a little
better.” ‘

“At the Restaurant” the traveller is prepared to deal with all sorts
of unpleasant situations. In Poland, he may complain, “This egg is hard.”
“I cannot cut with this blunt knife.” “This pear is not good.” “You have
spilt the coffee on the tablecloth.” Neither must he endure hard eggs and
dull knives in Sweden, where he can say, “These eggs are hard.” “The
knife is blunt.” “This butter is not fresh.” “This water has not boiled,”
and “This cream is sour.”

In Moscow he can order, “Call a drozhka” (if he knows what it is),
and having got one, he can say ecither “Take me to the Intourist office”
or, “Take me to the Society for Cultural Relations.” If he does become
confused, he can explain in the drozhka driver’s own tongue, “I don’t speak
Russian,” (a statement which must seem oddly contradictory to a Russian).. In Madrid, if asked, “How is your health?” the thankful tourist
can reply, “Pretty well, thank God.”

At the French “chemist’s” the ailing foreigner (in his light zephyr
shirt and drawers) is taught how to ask “What can I take against
(contre) a nervous headache?” “Give me a dose of antipyrine; of aspirine; of quinine.” “Give me some purgative lemonade”; “Give me some
ipecacuanha”. “Give me a sinapism; some sinapized wadding; some
oxygenated gauze; some cinchona; some arnica; some laudanum”; “Give
me some borage; some camomile; some mint; some pectoral tea; some
lime flowers”. Best of all, “Give me a depurative infusion.”

And so it goes. I hope I have given enough examples to illustrate
the remarkable genius of the foreign-phrase-book writer. If you doubt it,
I advise you to begin at once examining the nearest available foreignlanguage phrase books, and if you can find any possible situation not
provided for in it, I should be very glad to hear from you as soon as
SY A.

       

 

Staff Sketches

No. 1

 

Professor “Charlie’ Walmsley
was born in Dunton, Lancashire, a
long, long time ago. Receiving his
education at Manchester Grammar
School and Kings College, Cambridge. He came to Canada and
Kings College in 1929 and a year
later transferred to Dal, where he
has been ever since. This year he is
taking maths. classes 1, 2, 3, 5 and
7; as he says “most odd classes except two.” His one great hobby is
ericket and one at which he excells.
He also takes a great delight in
“finding most things amusing.”

 

 

 

 

Ss el iP Ne CN ee Nc Pe RC SO Ne a AM a pg neg ee etme en ee
1 Peer - ee : 7 i : a : a Q 1 i 7

4

\e

January 12, 1945

Mayors Please

MEDIUM orMILD

PLAYER'S NAVY CUT CIGARETTES

FARMERS

ALWAYS PURE

 

MILK

ALWAYS RICH
ALWAYS WHOLESOME

Challenger
Watches

These words mean more
than just a good watch—
they promise style plus
performance, plus  outstanding value for your
money.

Are you wearing a
Challenger?

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller
American Gem Society

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

 

 
  
 

*

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

See Our Pictorial Work for Gifts
Special Rates to Students
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

  
   
     
  
 
     
 
       
  
 
       
  
  
 
  
  
    
 
  

Delicious with milk as a bedtime snack—
crisp, crunchy graham with healthful bran,

 

THE NATIONAL FISH CO.
Limited
Fresh Fish Specialists
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

THE

Rosedale Nurseries
HALIFAX DARTMOUTH

381 Barington St. Wyse Rd.
111 Spring Garden Rd. H-2200

Jerry Naugler’s

Orchestra

38 SHORE ROAD
Call 6-4388

 

24 Hour Finishing Service
PHONE 36992

 

 

 

 

ty

i
X
:
\

   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
    
  
      
     
       
   
  
     
  
 
   
  
    
   
 
 
   
  

  

ial

 

 

a

=a

 

*

 

Well, here we are again, after
a tedious two weeks of holidays.
The campus seems quiet as the
students resolve for the first week
anyway, to catch up on last term’s
work. Even that freshman, Adam
S. tells us that he has been going
steady with a book for the last
few weeks.

% * *

Use Molpolive Shaving Cream—

no brush, no lather, no rub-in, no
Soap,
blood.

no box, no nothing—just

* * *

The poor “Sheik of Dalhousie”
after learning the results of his
exams promptly changed the song
to read “I’m the Sheik of the
Army”.

* * %

History Professor: “Jones, for
what was Louis XIV chiefly responsible?”

Jones: “Louis XV, sir”.

aE * of

It seems that for a while this
week, the Hall was in utter confusion, Could it be, caused by
Nancy C. rushing around because
of Skinner’s” attempt to don the
khahi?

* * *

They say the boys at Acadia are
very strong. When a car gets stuck
in the mua, it is nothing to see one
of them walk up behind the vehicle
and with a mighty heave easily
break a shoulder blade.

* ok Ba

They say freshman Don Kerr
had quite a time at Sydney this
summer. .Especially the time a
group of boys and girls went
swimming. .For further details
see Call Best or Don himself. Tch!
Tch! Such goings on. ;

* Bo _ *®

War work has sharply reduced the
supply of good teachers in some
sections, and the mother of a child
of kindergarten age discovered that
she was in one of those sections
when she dropped in at the child’s
classroom and heard the teacher

_a story. “And now”, she was saying, “guess what them bunnies
done”,

* * *

It seems that a flaming romance is going on between P.
Jones and A. Hartling. At the
present time however, Red tells
us that Art is the only one flaming. Surely Patsy wouldn’t pull a
double-cross, would she Art?

* ' *

Conversation recently overheard in

ee

 

Dathousie girls are beautiful, and
the male vogue in campus pin-ups
swings towards such fair lassies,

| sings the Toronto Star, in its recent

rotogravure. Pictured are lovelies
Marion Withrow, Josephine Robert
}eon, and Barbara White.

And so, in fairness to the rest of
the beautiful girls on the campus
(it is abounden with them, carols the
Star) the Gazette will run a beauty
contest. Yessires, that’ is what
we’re going to do, and the editor’s
neck is long enough to stick out
with.

So we’ve ‘been told.

The rules are simple. Every week
we will print on this page (if possible) a picture of a Dalhousie co-ed,
in either face or figure, with story
underneath, or several pictures a
week. Hang the expense. If we
have lovely roses blooming on this
campus, let us bring them out at
once. Tomorrow may be too late.
They might be married then.

At the end of six or seven weeks
of running pictures, a group of
qualified beauty experts, including
one engineer whose fancy runs towards collecting diverse ale labels,
will pick the picture of the loveliest
of the lovelies. And then she will
be given a round of those things
that usually befall beauty queens.

She will be given apple juice for
her complexion, the most modern
and expensive of perfumes, possible
publication in a large Canadian
weekly, replete with picture, and a
cash prize. Hollywood will be noti
| fied.

Pictures are to be left for
Features Editor McCleave at the
Gazette office.

 

English II.

Mingo: “Ya like to read, doncha?”

Betty Clark: “Sure”.

Mingo: “Whatcha like t’ read?”

Betty: “Oh, L’il Abner, Superman,
Terry and the Pirates’.

Mingo: “Ya’ like O. Henry?”

Betty: “Naw. The nuts get in
me teeth”.

* ao oa

They say Sawyer has given up
his alcove at the Hall. Also Kay
MacLear had freed herself from
Hall rules and now resides on
Lucknow Street. We heard that
Douglas is really taking advantage of the freedom thus offered
by the elusive Kay.

* * *

Max, the marriage broker, took a
client to look over a certain female
prospect. From a distance in the
room the anxious youth made an
inventory of the lady. He then
whispered to the marriage broker:
“She’s too fat, her nose is terrible,

she’s knock-kneed, her hair is
bleached, and she’s missing two
teeth”. “You can talk louder,”

shouted the marriagee broker, “she’s
deaf also’.

 

 
  

YOUR SUITS

 
   
   
 
   
    
  
    

lines. A, good wartime

LOOK ‘NEWER
LAST LONGER
When they go to Cousins

REGULARLY

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle, to keep
them feeling soft and fresh to maintain shapely, stylish

—-send what you have to Cousins often.

  

  

practice is: Buy fewer clothes

 

Sporting a cookie duster, but otherwise none the worse for his ex-’
perience, Richard M. Currie, M.B.,
(Master of Burps) returned last
week to raise inner drafting room
morale. He informs us he is considering dropping the M.B. because
“it is indicative of a practise which
is becoming a scholar and a gentleman.” What are these engineers
coming to?

Vacation Roundup — The Newfie,
given up for lost, flew in four days
late. We notice he isn’t affected by
the weather, but that’s because he
has been under it so long... Rivalling the gym ventilator as an examination torment was the continual tapping of Med pencils; next
April they will be provided with
woollen tips . That smacking
sound we hear every few minutes
can only be Vic Clarke’s lips recalling his first taste of firewater. * It
appears he spent a cheery Christmas.

* ae *

Reward offered for the clothing
cleptomaniac loose in the drafting
room. Last year he borrowed Currie’s and Saffron’s shoes occasionally, and the odour still remains.
His latest victim was freshman Giffin, who couldn’t very well attend his
beloved Drawing lecture without a
shirt. You should have seen the
hairs on his chest—both of them. A
bigger problem for this lad right
now is his see-saw battle with Lightfoot for a certain young lady’s favor.
Will the Boilermakers’ Ball bring
things to a boil?

* ae *

Comments heard on the Dal
beauty queens, as nominated by the

Toronto Star: R.A.: ‘Fency’ stuff,
that Withrow child. J.B.: Another
Portia White? Gosh, they don’t
look much alike. H.P.: There’s

some nice pictures on the other
side ... And by the way, we know
Lsaelutaly nothing about that disgraceful notice posted in Roy’s on
Monday. The rumor that the Engineer who did it received a medal is
just wishful thinking.

* ee *

As the first event of the 1945 social season, the 100% Lily Whiters
(Engineers Branch) got together to
shock one another at the MacDonald
home. Those present included Mike,
who, slaying himself as usual, was
stretched out on the floor all evening; Peter P’s pipe, with Peter not
far behind; Baleom, with two left
feet, both sore; the female Balecom,
more interesting from Mac’s point
of view; and Dick “I-wouldn’t-say-itif-I-had-a-mouthful” Moulton. <A
good time was had by all, probably.

We therefore moot...

—_

This writer, having dabbled in
newspaper writing for years, knows
whereof he speaks. And since this
school is closely entwined with correct use of English, we think Prof.
Bennett and the English department
should have a very real share in
the instruction.

Of course, it would be nice to have
a few managing editors from the
downtown papers to give their viewpoint about what is going on in the
publishing world, but this would be
the ‘brutal, or here-we-are-rubbingelbows-with-life approach, and not
fit for a more theoretical-minded
student.

Bennett Explains

I can see Prof. Bennett now, explaining the week’s theme. “It will
be on the general idea of a description of a disaster from one of
Shakespeare’s plays with perhaps an
accent on the tragic hero, or maybe
a by-play in an off-lead paragraph
on the secondary results of the dance
of the three witches, or a cosmopolitan or block-paragraph style story
on Shakespeare—His Life and Bard
Times”.

The winning theme was turned in
by a thug from the lower brackets
of the class, who has an unusually
bright mind for reporting. “King
Gets Bumped Over Dame Who Gives
With The Cat”, it told in simple,
eloquent terms the story of Lady
MacBeath.

Tragedy struck in Scotland late
yesterday afternoon when the

lifeless body of Lady MacBeath, 
of Apartment 6, Blink Bonnie
Castle, committed suicide after
her husband, Lord MacBeath had
fallen into a nest of thorns, and
died from natural causes. Mystery
surrounds both deaths.

It was reliably learned that the
death of Mr. MacBeath would be
investigated by Scotland (it‘s in
our back)-Yard who suspicion
murder. Mrs. Murphy, who lived
next door to Mrs. MacBeath,
sobbed while she told police the
story of the suicide:

“It was sa terrible. One minnet
there was Drusilla large as life,
moving about in the kitchen and
mad as a hornet about some damn
soap which was roughing up her
‘hands, and the next moment her
lying dead at my feet”.

“IT swears up and down it was
the witches that done it. They
that put poor old man MacBeath
under”.

Questioned further about the
witches, Mrs. Murphy unfolded a

WE |—-WE SHOULD HAVE... .— HAVE...

In the interests of the University, The Gazette Feature Editor
feels he is bound to make some suggestions which would be a vast
improvement in the place. Anybody who thinks we’re serious doesn’t
know us, and those who ‘don’t think we’re serious don’t read us.

A SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM

  
 
   
 

macabre tale of hallucination, of
horror, and of spirits that consumed the MacBeaths. .At a cor.oner’s inquest held later in the
day following the death of the
pair, Dr. Novus Scientia said it
was his full, belief the brains of ,
the Murphy woman had been
addled by the tragedy, and that
her evidence was incompetent to
prove murder. “She has sustained—yes, suffered—an intense
shock due to the loss of her
friends, the MacBeaths, I fear 
may cause her irreparable injury”.

The noted doctor concluded his
testimony with the terse, shrewd
statement, “She’s completely off
her nut. She’s batty. I tell you,
the woman’s touched.

However, confusion was caused
at the coroner’s inquest by the appearance of three elderly tadies,
wearing peaked caps, long capes,
and who persisted in mumbling
in court.

All three said something about
if they weren’t allowed to testify,
some fellow named Shakespeare
would be along at a later time to
attempt to ferret the truth out,
but their testimony was cut short
by the coroner, who is_ short,
pumpkin-faced, short-winded, pigeyed Bill MacSnuff.

Also causing confusion was a
young girl, beauty-eyed, starrycomplexioned, pear-hipped, gazelleloping, who started to sing, “The
quality of mercy is not strained”,
but they said she was in a wrong
court and so indeed she was.

Prof. Bennett, in giving this theme
an A plus-plus, wrote in comment
on the margin. This is the best
piece of writing I have seen in a
long time. Keep up the good work.

 

 

You Are Invited to Visit

Phinney’s Sheet
Music Department

where you will always find
the newest popular songs
as well as the finest standard and classical num
 

 

Have a = Oe tha family welcomes you

      
    

yng y
H I " |

it TIN

i

12 greeting 1 new and a thea

a mel)
ula os i ofl

Unexpected visitors can be expected in wartime. Sons bring
home their wives. Soldiers on furlough drop in without
notice. And you can play host on a moment’s notice when
you have Coca-Cola on hand in your refrigerator. Have a
“Coke” says Welcome... makes new and old friends feel at

home with you and yours.

ae encore company of Canada, Limited, Halifax

a = ee i

 

  
    

No ae

   

 

It’s natural ae popular names

m to acquire friendly ag
tions. ees why ou

D Coca-Cola called "Coke".

 

 

 

 

 

Page Three

_ and Fortune | ‘Beckon Most Beautiful Co-ed
‘T.SQUARE

No other themes could equal this
effort. One indeed started with the
pitiful “Once upon a time Lord MacBeath started to run out on Lady
BacBeath and it is believed she
filled him with lead before killing
herself’, but the desired effect was
lost.

(Editor’s note: Many pointers on
news writing can be gained from
perusing .the .above .article, .and
giving it minute laboratory inspection. But why waste your time).

ORPHEUS

Thursday, Friday, Saturday
“ONE MYSTERIOUS NIGHT”
“SWING IN THE SADDLE”

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
“WHEN STRANGERS MARRY”
“SAN ANTONIO KID”

      
  
  
   

GARRICK

Saturday - Friday

PAT O’BRIEN
and CAROLE LANDIS

“Secret Command”

 

Week Jan. 13
GEORGE

FORMBY

sania. SEA” cate

BELLBOTTOM
GEORGE

 

OXFORD

TODAY and SATURDAY

“STEP LIVELY”
and
‘ALDRICH’S LITTLE SECRET”

 

trae sa Sa ale
MON.-TUES.-WED.

SPENCER TRACY,in
“THE SEVENTH CROSS”

 

CAPITOL

Friday and Saturday

“Impatient Years”

with

Lee Bowman —- Jean Arthur

 

 

Monday to Saturday

“Arsenic And Old
Lace”

with Cary Grant
and Raymond Massey

 
     
     
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  

  
 

sp Dalhousie ve cer
 
 

| the new term. The
pa has already played

 
 

‘ far, the: basketball team has
18 1 four games and has only

sa nY ee a of conditioning and
Pan were unable to keep up the fast pace
aes vot. their opponents throughout the
nine games. In every game the team
ight: ur he shown ability to hold its own
Ri i ‘fh any company and after a few

   
  
   
   
    
  
    
    
  
 
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
     
   
 
 
  

Sy

In the
“game Heaint the Y.M. C. A., the
youthful hoop squad rate natan a
i Me ee seoring force, though at
eet tt times the checking was poor. The
us Mh: Ss defect is the inability of our

The hockey setup is extremely

Promising. The forward line of Lehel Blane, Lightfoot and Potechin,
ei % ‘y eek | has been performing as a unit

: Donald, who was one of the stars of
Df ei year’s ice squad, is running into
| shape, and is expected to carry a lot
ne the scoring punch for the team.
defence duo of Bob Wade and

ck Currie leaves little to be de
y = since they look even better

| Knight to the army lately. Not
ait was Bob a steady player in the
court game but he was also a better
(in 1an average performer on the grid| : ‘ pean Bob was never a high

  

 
 

this tiie to get away from
him. He played for the game itself,
Pi not to reap individual glory, and
. ry ‘gave everything he had to help his
ae come out on top. A host of

eee on, the campus wish this

 
 

  

 
 

  
  
    
 

st arted 1945 in fine style, |}

a _— the hockey team |

 

 

  
 
    
       
  
 
 
  
    

Stadacona Stars Whip
.| Tigers at Dal Gym

Last Thursday at 5.30 the Tigers
were hosts to a Navy team from
Stad. in the first game of the new
year for the collegians. The game

opened at a fast speed with both
teams driving from the opening
whistle.

The first half was very close with
teams matching basket for basket.
Farquhar with 5 points, Smith with
, and Giffin with 4, carried the brunt
of the attack for the Tigers in the
first half. Towards the end of the
half the Navy boys pulled slightly
ahead and the half time score was
Stad 26, Dal 21.

It was in the final half that the
superior conditioning of the Navy
boys showed to advantage as againts
the exam-nervous college boys, and
the Navy team rattled off 30 points
in the last half, while the Tigers
managed to score only 8 points.
Four of these were scored by Dal’s
all-freshman guard, Cooley, while
Cunningham and Dunlop sccounted
for two points each. Final score of
the game was 56—29.

Line-up: Cooley 6, Farquhar 5,
| Cunningham 4, Smith 4, Giffin 4,
Pope 4, Dunlop 2, Robinson, Clarke,
Knight.

ROUND TABLE GROUP

(Continued from page 2)

 

Table Group a much better result
could be obtained. A plan of coordinating the activities of the two |
groups was discussed and will be
proposed to Sodales and the Student’s ‘Council.

To Incorporate With Sodales

The plan is to have inter-faculty
debating and the Round Table dis
eo Mf SL SOU),
‘eC Or
5 Z ZB

 

 

  

WM

Yyyy
G

 
    

= =
bee S
Z \
Le \\

@ For smoother,
: faster work from
points that never
break, try these
three college
favorites:

uy
IRADO

WRITING PENCIL

ERITHIN:

‘COLORED PENCIL
TURQUOISE
DRAWING PENCIL

(BUY ALL 3

FROM YOUR

"7 ENPaN v
ya Ne NG
a

my
; i
ae

: Tf
r 7

 

 

boys’ basketball team are looking
forward to an interesting trip to Mt.
Allison, February 10.

Contracts are being made by the
managers — Norma Sherman, Don
Harris and Bill Mingo—to arrange

four games against Mt. Allison

 

During the Christmas recess, Dalhousie’s varsity team was invited to
play against the Peregrine hoop
team at the sailor’s gym. The collegians accepted and were given a
royal welcome and treated very cordially by the boys in Navy blue. The
students showed up well in the first
few minutes of play and were
away to a fine start with an early
lead of 8-0. Lack of conditioning
and results of the strenous week of
examinations were apparent in the
second half in which the sailors ran
wild while Dal offered feeble resistence. At the end of the first half
Dal was down five points but tired
in the last half so that the final
Score read 70-35.

Dalhousie held the edge in long
shots and amazed the many interested spectators with some uncanny
shooting. Coach PB. Ralston led his
team’s attack with eight points while
speedy Adam Smith followed with
Six points,

Lineup: Giffen, 4; Cooley, 4; V.
Clarke; Farquhar, 4; Dunlop, 4; A.
Smith, 6; B. Rileton. 8; R. Keene
B. Pope.

 

cussions on the same night. The
reason for this is to encourage interest in debating and, through discussion, improve the quality of debating. The meeting could open with
an interfaculty .debate each week,
followed by a discussion, either pertaining to the debated topic, or a
discussion of a topic suggested by
guest speakers such as Professor
Wilson. The plan is to be diseussed
at the Sodales meeting on next

Peregrine Trims
Dalhousie Visitors

Tuesday and at the next Student
Council meeting a formal proposal
If the idea meets

will be made.

2 Pave rena ae
late ae att) (Oar ct
va Wet ; OG Ah 5 ae Y 4

GALA TRIP PLANNED

Members of the female basketball
teams, the Varsity ice squad and =

» = _— ey eng = Fly PRPs T
oA yey eras Fee See Yep )Ee

i .
,, = I ,
Pre? = ue i

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

AND BASKETBALL SQUADS ACTIVE |

  
   

teams for that date. All these plans
are pending the ratification of the
Students’ Council but it is hoped
that that body will vote the required
funds. After the gracious reception
and entertainment received at the
Sackville college last year, everyone
is eagerly looking forward to the
journey.

 

Hockey Prospects
Are Very Bright

With a few more workout under
their belts, the Dal hockey aspirants
show promise of becoming a very
powerful hockey aggregation and
should give a good account of themselves in intercollegiate competition,
The boys are rapidly rounding into
shape (even those with dull skates,
Bob,) and are looking forward to
their first taste of competition.

Since several newcomers have
been turning out for practice, there
seems to be a good possibility of
there being three strong, well-balanced forward lines. One unit working well has been a McKelvieLightfoot-Leblane line. Also work- |
ing well have been Bobbie MacDonald, Isnor, L. Giffin, G. Simon, Potechni, Blakney and two Med students.

On defense, Wade, Graves, and a
newcomer, R. Cunningham, have
shown up well,

Admiittedly, the toughest spot to
fill will be goals, but one of the aspirants shows definite promise and
has improved with each workout.

A recent and very welcome addition to the workouts has been Dick
Currie, who shows up extremely
well, both on defefnse and as a forward,

with approval, the first combined
meeting will take place on Wednesday evening, Jan. 24, 1945, at 7:30,
at which time a team representing
Arts and Science will engage the
Engineering stalwarts in a battle of
words, and perhaps “wits”.

Come on, Dal, let’s have a real
turnout at the Political Rally on
Wednesday, Jann. 17th, at 7:30.

 
  

  
   
    
 

Carl Little
Art Burgess
Steve Bloomer

Formal

DON’T MISS THE

Boilermakers’ Ball
NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL FRIDAY, JAN. 26

TICKETS $3.

50—Sold by
Don McLeod

Pete Flynn
Doug Clarke

  
    
     
 
      

No Corsages

 

‘Dal Collegians
Victorious Over
Debert Army

Dalhousie’s youthful basketball
team started its season in December
with a well-earned victory over the

strong Debert Army representatives’

by a score of 35-33. Before several
spectators the two teams presented
a fast brand of ball with close
checking throughout. Ralph Cooley,
freshman flash, was a tower of
strength on the collegian rearguard
and led his teams attack with ten
points. The Dal boys seemed to
have their shooting eyes sharpened
for long shots but were at a disadvantage in height under the basket.

At half time, Dal was leading
by a good margin and managed to
survive a blistering sally of the
soldiers in the second canto to come
out on top with a two point advantage.

This year’s team is younger in age
than any that Dal has had in the
| past decade or so and no man on the
team is over six feet in height. However the boys have a fighting team
;and will win their share of games

in the season in the offing.

Line-up: R.. Cooley, 10; C. Giffen,
| 4; Doug Clarke, 3; Alex Farquhar,
6; A. Smith, 6; Alf Cunningham, 4;
B. Pope, 2; A. Robinson; B. Knight;
D. Dunlop; and Vic Clarke.

 

 

av) Ve Lem ;

IT’S COSTING

YOU PLENTY!

 

Janwary 12, 1945

Tiger Squad Bows to
Y. M.C. A. 46-36

Last Friday evening Dalhousie
bowed to Y. M. C. A. to the tune of
46-36. The Tigers showed lots of
speed and _ shooting ability but
missed the services of sharpshooting
stars Alf Cunningham and Blair
Dunlop. Throughout the fray from
the Dal boys fought an uphill battle
and the guarding was poor at times.
They showed a strong scoring power
in the last canto and widely outscored their more experienced opponents.

Young Adam Smith played outstanding ball and garnered twelve
points. Ralph Cooley turned in his
usual stellar performance as did his
running-mate Carl Giffen. Bob
Knight, playing his last game for
Dalhousie performed credibly and
set up several scoring plays. With
a few practices and the addition of
Cunningham and Dunlop, the Tigers
are expected to give the “Y” a run
for their money in a return match.

Plans for Boxing
Forwarded for 1945

A meeting of those interested in
boxing classes was held in Burnie
Ralston’s office at 12 on Thursday
to fix a time suitable for the majority of those who want to learn
the elements of boxing.

It was suggested by the Physical
Instructor that if good material
turns up there may be a intercollegiate boxing meet arranged. However, that’s something for the future. One thing that will be started
right away is inter-faculty boxing
and the manager would like to take
this opportunity to ask each society
on the campus to elect a boxing
manager who will as soon as possible get names of boys who want
to take part, keeping in mind the
weight division: under 140, 140-160,
and over 160 Ibs.

 

 

 

You’re paying more and more out in taxes

every year.

Do you know where your money is going?

Has the extraordinary increase in government
income gone directly to the war effort?

How is it being handled?

What about pre-war tax increases?

What about post-war taxes?

Will the cost of government revert to aaywnere

near the pre-war level?

What can YOU do about it?

   
      
      

Say SCHWARTZ and be sure!

“Say Schwartz and be
We urge it for your protection that you may be
assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality in Coffee,

Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and
Dried Fruits.

   

A good slogan in war or peace:
Sure”.

    
   
     
 

W. H. SCHWARTZ & SONS LTD.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax im 1841

LEARN THE FACTS — SEND FOR FREE PAMPHLET

Fill in and mail the coupon below for your free pamphlet on the
tax situation. The information it contains is of vital interest

to all Canadians. Your request does not obligate you in
any way.

BRACKEN CLUBS OF CANADA,
63 Sparks St., Ottawa, Ont.

Please send me a

free Cc a
Situation.” opy of your pamphlet “The Tax

PEN ASE COST OST OPV RCRUE DDO RE ROCs esv ewes ssEsS be bneeedace pemebasctonceaeseoote,

[Serer

 
