 

|

|

suunniill

_ iit
oe

al

VOL. LXVIII NO. 6

Bigorical Outline —

Dalhousie Medical
School

Dr. W. H. HATTIE

 

Dalhousians say, our university was
founded in 1818, with a portion of the
customs funds collected at the port of
Castine when that port was occupied
by British forces during the war of 1812.
lt was really not founded as a university,
however, but rather, in the words cf the
Earl of Dalhousie, as “a College or Academy on the same plan and principle as
that in Edinburgh.”’ University powers
were conferred upon the college by Act
of Parliament in 1841. A medical faculty was not considered until twenty-two
years later, when the governors of the university asked the Medical Society of Nova
Scotia to approve a proposition to organize a medical school. The Society did
not approve. There were lions in the
way; and there was no Anatomy Act,
and the facilities for clinical teaching
were insufficient. What later became the
Victoria General Hospital, a small institution known as the Provincial and
City Hospital, had been opened Lind four
years previously, and there was little else
that harboured “material” fcr instruction at the bedside. And so the proposal
to establish a school of medicine in Hallifax was regarded as visionary and imracticable. A
7 In the following year (1864), a medical
man became Premier of Nova Scotia.
He was also made a Governor of Dalhousie
and President of the Medical Society of
Nova Scctia. Later on he distinguished
himself in many ways and his name will
always live as one of the greatest of Bluenoses. We remember him now as Sir
Charles Tupper, but it was while he was
still Dr. Tupper that he determined that
the objections to a Dalhousie Medical
School must be overcome. And when
he faced a task he never rested until he
finished it. Space forbids reference to
the difficulties which beset him. The
important thing is that in the year of
Confederation a partial course was inaugurated, which three years later was
extended to a complete course.

Of the original faculty, none survive.
The personnel was as follows: Doctors
William J. Almon, A. P. Reid, Edward
Farrell, A. H. Woodill, James D. Ross,
Thomas R. Almon, Alexander G.
Hattie, and Professor George Lawson.
These men set themselves to build up a
school under conditions which were far
from encouraging. The university could
afferd little in the way of expenditure,
the profession generally were skeptical
about the desirability of the undertaking
and none too friendly towards it, and the
public were profoundly apathetic. So
the start was made under many disadvantages. Nevertheless standards were
set that were far in advance of those of
most of the medical schools on this continent. Contrasted with the two year
and three year courses which were common in America until the present century
opened, the course prescribed at the outset covered four years, and the examinations were ccnducted under what were
then unusually rigid conditions.

The teaching in the junior years was
carried on in the first Dalhousie building
which was situated where the City Hall
now stands. Here the accommodation
was restricted and not altogether comfortable. Dissecting was dcne in the attic, where the ceiling was so low that students could not stand upright. The
hospital and the alms house, where the
clinical teaching was done, were nearly a
mile distant from the ccllege.

Within a few years the university found
itself unable to continue the meagre support it had been giving to the new faculty, and the continuation of medical teaching in Halifax necessitated other arrangements. Thus it came about that the
Halifax Medical College was incorporated, in 1875, with much the same faculty
and in affiliation with Dalhousie. The
original pcrtion cf the wooden building
at the corner of Ccllege and Carleton
Streets was constructed at once, the site
being chosen because of its proximity to

the hospital and alms house, and here the

major part of the didactic teaching was
done until 1915.
In 1885, the University again establish
ed a faculty of medicine, but only for
_ purposes of examination. This was com
principally of members of the faculty of the Halifax Medical College, and

| thereafter the students cf the college took
_ the university examinations and obtain
ed the university degree. The relation
ship between the college and university

(Continued on page 2 Column .)

Medical Issue

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 27th, 1925

Our Medical School Is Recognized As In Class A

It was with a good deal of pleasure, though not with surprise, that I received from Dr.
N. P. Colwell, Secretary of the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals of the American
Medical Association, notification that, at the last meeting of the Council, a resolution was
passed giving ‘‘Class A’’ rating to the Medical School of the University. That which gave the
greatest pleasure and satisfaction was the statement in Dr. Colwell’s letter reading ‘‘I know
of no institution in which this higher rating has been more richly deserved.’’ As this Council
is not in the way of paying compliments, but a hard-headed official body, this statement is
all the more ¢gratifying.

Perhaps a word of explanation is needed as to what is the status of this Council on
Medical Education. It has no executive or legislative powers. It was appointed by the
American Medical Association to formulate a general standard of education for the training
of Medical practitioners, and to make an examination of existing Medical schools and to rate
them in respect to their having reached this standard. Though, as has been said, it has
directly no authority, indirectly its findings and ratings exert very great influence upon Medical schools, and affect Medical students and Medical matters in general, as will be readily
understood. For instance, in many States of the Union the licensing body will not allow
candidates to stand for their examinations for licensure unless they have received their
education in Medical schools which come up to a certain rating by this Council.

A short account of the efforts of the University to bring the Medical school to its present standing will be of interest. In 1910 the Carnegie Foundation for the Improvement of
Teaching published a long report, prepared by Mr. Abraham Flexner, on ‘‘Medical Education in the United States and Canada.”’ It contained both a report on Medical education in
general and a critical study of the existing Medical schools. Mr. Flexner had the co-operation of Dr. N. P. Colwellin this work. This report was far from flattering to the Halifax Medical College, and, indirectly, to the University for its connection with that institution. The
report, though unfair in details, was on the whole deserved, as the day of the private, proprietary Medical School had passed. The relationship of the University to the Halifax Medical College was peculiar. The former provided the instruction in Physics, Chemistry and
Biology, its Faculty of Medicine, an examining body only, examined the students, and it
conferred the degrees. In all other respects the Halifax Medical College was entirely an independent institution, and the University had nothing to do with teaching Medical students
after their first year in the pure sciences. The day came when the training of Medical students required more than merely didactic and bedside teaching. The Medical sciences of
Anatomy, Pathology, Physiology, Bacteriology, Histology, Biochemistry, Pharmacology,
etc, became of such importance that they required at least the same attention as the fundamental pure sciences. This meant expensive, special laboratories and equipment and the
appointment of a full-time staff as teachers of these subjects. Prior to that time these subjects were taught by the members of the pract?cing Medical profession. The outlay required to meet this development in the teaching of Medicine was too great for the proprietary
Medical Schools to meet. This was made very clear in the Carnegie Report, and it was not
long before the teaching of Medicine passed almost entirely into the hands of the Universities. In keeping with this movement, Dalhousie took over the whole teaching of Medicine
in 1911, and the Halifax Medical College went out of existence. The University did this reluctantly, because they realized what a financial burden they were assuming, but they felt it
was their duty to make the effort to maintain a Medical teaching centre at Halifax. Three
full-time appointments were made very shortly after this in the Medical School, a Patholoogist, with the co-operation of the Victoria General Hospital, a Physiologist, and an Anatomist. The equipment of the laboratories was greatly improved and added accommodation
for the same found in the Forrest Building. Then the War broke out, and progress was slowedup. During this time Dr. Colwell again made a survey of the Medical School, and, though
greatly pleased with the progress which had been made, rightly pointed out that there was
much yet to be done before we had any right to be rated in the highest class. One of the
matters that required improvement was the relationship of the University to the hospitals
in which clinical teaching was done. This was very satisfactorily solved when the Board of
Commissioners of the Victoria General Hospital granted to the University the privilege of
nominating its Medical staff. This privilege was afterwards granted by the Grace Maternity
Hospital, and the Tuberculosis Hospital, and recently by the Children’s Hospital. All of
these hospitals are now teaching hospitals, which it is well understood today is for the benefit of the hospitals as well as of the University Medical School. When the war was over the
University made a canvass for funds, part of which was for the Medical School. The chief
gift was one of $500,000 from the Carnegie Corporation, to make possible a gift of equal
amount from the Rockefeller Foundation which is distributing a total amount of $5,000,000
from Mr. Rockefeller for the Medical schools of Canada. The Rockefeller Foundation did
not make this offer until they had submitted the Medical School and, in fact, Dalhousie
University, to the most searching and exhaustive survey, Dr. Vincent, the President of the
Foundation, making part of the survey in person. That they were highly pleased was evident by their statements and report, Dr. Vincent pointing out that the location of the Medical School with its teaching hospitals within a stone’s throw of it was almost unique. They
were greatly taken also with the desire of the University to erect what has since been called
the Out-patient Clinic and Public Health Centre. The money received from these Foundations was to be used in the following way—$600,000 as endowment for the payment of salaries for the staff in Medical Sciences, and the remainder for the building and equipment of
a Medical Sciences Building and for the construction of the Health Centre. The provincial
Government undertook on its side to enlarge the Pathological Institute in return for the
University’s operating an out-patient clinic, which would enable the Hospital to discharge
many patients at an earlier stage. The University thereafter made full-time appointments
to the departments of Hygiene and Public Health, of Histology, Embryology, Biochemistry
and Pharmacology, and equipped the new laboratories both for teaching and research.

Dr. Colwell kept in close touch with the progress of the School and had been promising for a year or two to make another visit of inspection, but did not find time until last summer. It was evident at the time that his impressions were very favourable, but how favourable was not known until we received the result of his report to his committee. In the meantime, it should be added, the State Boards of New York and of Pennsylvania gave complete
recognition to graduates of our Medical School. Pennsylvaniasent a special examiner who
made an inspection of several day’s duration, going in detail into every phase of our Medical
facilities and practices. New York has given like standing to our Law andjDental Schools.

This authoritative pronouncement of the standing of Dalhousie’s Medical School will
be received with the greatest satisfaction by every true Maritime Province man, and especially will it give pleasure to every Dalhousian to know that competent and impartial outside
opinion gives him an added reason for the pride he has in his own institution.

 

stat ce Ca,

 
   

|
|) a

1 {1 UNHUHOAANy

Five Cents The Copy

The Dalhousie
Medical Society

 

Nothing changes the prospects and
outlook of any Society as the injection
of new blood and an energetic spirit into
its apathetic frame. In 1921 after a momentary gleam of brilliancy the Dalhousie
Medical Society lay dormant. True it
still held its annual dance and sponsored
its interfaculty, athletic and debating
teams, but as a body in which student
interest was centred it practically ceased
to exist.

A decided change of events took place
in the Fall of 1924 when Professor O. S,
Gibbs, just arrived from Edinburgh,
strongly urged the reconstitution of the
Society on a basis, which would make it a
source of interest and instruction to every
medical student. An organization meeting was held at the Green Lantern and
the enthusiasm shown encouraged the
officers and various committees in their
work,

A sound and very admirable constitution. was drawn up and adopted by the
Society which now became a most active
body. The Medical Dance for the first
time in many years not only was the best
dance of the season, but gave much needed money to carry on further activities.

During the Winter several meetings
were held at which there were case discussions in which all students were encouraged to take part. An effort was
made to so discuss these cases that all
years might profit by it, and this was
successfully done. As a grand finale the
Society held a banquet at the Halifax
Hotel early in the Spring at which the
Professors and Clinical teachers were the
guests of the students. The evening is
still a pleasant memory to those who were
there.

With the opening of the present Session the old interest was revived and burned brightly . The officers appointed are
such aS ensure a most prosperous year.
A “getto-gether’’ evening was held at the
Munro Room, the most entertaining
and lively one for many a year. The
recent Medical Dance speaks for the ability
of the men who composed the dance ccmmittee as representing the Society in
general. The Medical Society challenges
any other faculty to produce a better
one.

As a further sign of its broadening
interest the Society decided that instead
of the usual class pins that a general medical emblem of a special nature be adopted which could be modified in the form of
such an article of jewelry as would please
the individual member. A committee
was appointed which aided by several
members of the Faculty finally produced
a very suitable design.

Greek travellers and merchants traversing the vast forests of southern Gaul
and working gradually northward, or
climbing the hills and mountains of Lebanon must have been struck with the
beauty, uprightness, and great age attained by the pine and the cedar tree,
Could anything in nature so personify the
spirit of Life as these evergreen giants
of the forest? Evidently the Greeks
thought not as they adopted the pine
cone as the symbol of life, strength and
renewed energy and placed it in the hand
of the statues of Aesculapius the God of
Medicine. So much was the pine cone
valued that it was long considered the
sovereign cure for epilepsy, and there are
statues and bas-reliefs in existence showing the King’s Physician extending the
cone beneath the nose of his royal master
during a fit.

For the historic reasons alone the hand
holding a pine cone is eminently suitable
as an emblem of the Society. Each
member holds as his aim the diminishment of human suffering and the renewing of energy sapped by disease. But
besides this, Dalhousie is the College of
the North, the home of the pine tree
which makes our emblem a true Symbol
of our aims, our Alma Mater, and our
Country.

Dr. Pullem and his assistants are
busy preparing for one of the outstanding social functions of the College year. At this affair—The Dental
Dance—which is to be held immediately after the Christmas recess, he
has hopes of giving you such a good
time that you will regret when the
appointment is over.

 
————

LLL AL
= é = . =

SS

 

i
4

 

 

 

Page Two

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

November 27, 1925

 

 

“The Dalhousie Gazette.”

} (Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
ArtHur L. Murpny, 26.

Associate Editors:
Mary A. BeresFrorp, 26.
Avis H. MarsuHatt, 27.
Rona.p Hayes, 26.
Warren Pvusticover, 26.

Financial Editor:

Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

 

Ave, Medicina!

Our hearty congratulations to Dalhousie and her medical school!
To President MacKenzie, Dr. John Stewart, Dr. Hattie and to all
those responsible for this new recognition the medical school has attained, we extend our most cordial salutations,—and our gratitude.
Any comments we might make on the communication from President

MacKenzie would be superfluous.

Congratulations.

So we mefely say again—

_ Not so many years ago a medical issue of the Gazette would have
been looked upon with disapproval by the student body in general.
The editors would have been accused of catering unfairly to a minority. Today we are confident that all will endorse this number as being not only most opportune, but fully deserved. The Dalhousie
Medical School now ranks equally with the greatest medical colleges

on the continent.

equipment of its buildings most adequate.
sixty two, and of these eighteen are full time professors.

Its professors are all admirably qualified and the

The Faculty numbers
Within a

radius of sixty yards are grouped eight large buildings fulling equipped in the respective phases of the arts of curing and healing, and all’
with open doors to the medical student.

The Medical School has grown from a mere appendage of Dalhousie to one of its great bulwarks. From small beginnings, through
many vicissitudes, with the sacrifices of men, many of whom are no
longer with us, the school has developed into the fine structure which

we proudly acclaim it today.

 

A Hero of the Dawn of Modern Surgery

~ The story is told of a quaint old Nova
Scotian lady who on her first visit to St.
Paul’s Cathedral, being told by the guide
that the Empire’s illustrious dead were
buried there, replied that it was a lie, that
she saw nobody there from Pictou. Laugh
if you will, but there rests no ashes in that
mighty pile which deserve their last illustrious bed as much as those cf an almost forgotten Pictonian, James D. B.
Fraser, who sleeps with his fathers in old
Laurel Hill Cemetery, Pictou.

For a hundred years the people cf that
old, historic town, have descended its
hills and traversed its crooked streets to
the shop of “Fraser the Apothecary.”
The store and its owner soon achieved
an enviable reputation. Fraser was a
hardy Scot, who believing in keeping
abreast of the times in medicine, subscribed to several medical and surgical
journals from the cld land. Sailing vessels were still the chief source cf communication and these journals often reached
their owner several weeks old.

You may then imagine Fraser in his
shop cn the evening of the day on which
the London Packet arrived, reading with
wonder and awe by the dim light of a
candle the news that Sir James G. Simpson on Nov. 4, 1847, had first given Chloroform to a woman in childbirth with good
results. The journal was then nearly
four months old. Immediately Mr. Fraser set about preparing in his modest shop
with but crude apparatus, the first chloroform ever made in the Western Hemisphere. How did he know that his product was pure, that instead of a temporary it might not produce a permanent
slumber. He did not know, but with
faith in his own ability and a courage
which wcrds cannot adequately desride
en March 22, 1848, he administered it
to his own wife during childbirth, certainly the first time in Canada if not in
America, that it was used in such a case.
The son born was Robert P. Fraser of Pictou who died about two years ago.

But his chleroform was used befcre
that date for a different type of case.
We believe that the anaesthetic given in
the following report was either his own

roduction or had been taken direct frem

ngland. In the “Presbyterian Witness” Feb. 5, 1848, the following item
appeared :—

‘Dr. Almon amputated the thumb of a
woman in the Poor Asylum, Tuesday
merning in the presence of Dr. Parker of

this city, (Halifax) and Dr. Brown, of
Horton. This case is published, not
for the purpose of inviting attention to
the operation, but to the effect of the
agent employed to prevent pain. The
chlorferm was administered by inhaling
from a soft rag applied to the nese and
mouth for a few minutes. The patient
very scon became insensible to pain, and
the operation, occupying perhaps ten
minutes, was finished before sensibility
returned on waking. The pcor woman
expressed her gratitude in the warmeést
form, and in the judgment of all present,
the success of the operation was complete.”

Frem the March 11th, 1848, issue of
the same publication the fcllowing is
taken:

“An operation was performed on Friday last by Dr. Almon at the Halifax
Poor Asylum, in the presence of many of
the medical men of the city, upon a poor
woman, under the influence cf chloroform. The patient upon first inhaling
the chloroform, was a little excited; but
after a short time became more tranquil,
and finally sank into a state of partial
lethargy.

“The operation (amputation of the
leg above the knee) was then commenced.
Before it was completed she so far become, herself as to sing and converse,
though rather incoherently, with those
about her.

“When the operation was finished and
the stump partly dressed, on being asked
if she was ready to have her leg taken cff,
she gave her assent, and for some time
could not be persuaded that it had already been done, and she had experienced no pain. The medical men present
expressed themselves satisfied with the
result of the chloroform,
equalled their expectations.

“The chloroform made use of on this
occasion (on the purity cf which the preducing of its characteristic effect depends)
was manufactured by J. D. B. Fraser,
Esq., Chemist of Pictou.” (Presbyterian Witness, Vol. 1, 1848.)

When one thinks of the number of anaesthetics given in a single day in Canada, and then of the number recorded
in the year of Our Lord 1848, one begins
to realize the extent to which medicine
and surgery has advanced in seventy
years. ~ The age of Lister had nct then
arrived but its approach was at hand,
when the Father of Antiseptic Surgery

 

Dalhousie Students

You can save See e and
lars in some cases, by buying
college supplies at our store —

Bound Note Books

F Pencils
Loose Leaf Note Books Fountain Pens

a Supplies

Frank M. O'Neill & Co. Ltd.
: ‘Commercial Stationers

152 GRANVILLE STREET

When in Town

GET THE

Three Essentials

1. Pure Food and Candy

2. Prompt and Courteous
Service

3. Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. Geo. Alexander

 

which quite |

 

had as his assistant another Pictou man,
Dr. John Stewart, our honored Dean,
So when you next face the peaceful,
painless chloroform sleep, do so with all
confidence, and breathing steadily and
easily think of that old hero of Pictou in
the long ago who risked the life of her he
loved most that seience might be advanced to the eternal benefit of mankind.

H. S.

 

Phi Rho Sigma

Phi Rho Sigma Fraternity was founded at the Northwestern University Medical School in the fall of 1890 by Dr. Milbank Johnson. Since then about thirty
chapters have been established throughout the continent, three of which are in
Canada, at only Class A Medical Colleges.

One of the features of this fraternity
is its organization. The Grand Council
is the governing body connected, by
means of the Central Office in Detroit,
with all the chapters and with Chapter
National, the vast graduate body. In
this way a member of the fraternity can
be at all times in touch with his fellow
members. If he wishes an internship
he may learn where toe apply, or if he
travels he will be welcomed wherever
there are brother members. The Chapters are divided in geographical districts,
at.the head of each is a Governor, who
visits each chapter once a year. Another
important link is the Phi Rho Sigma
Journal which has flourished since 1900.

Alpha Eta the Dalhousie Chapter was
established last April with full inaugural
ceremcnies. The consummation was a
banquet held on board the S. 5S. Chignecto as a fitting place fora chapter at
the “College by the Sea.” The first
speaker at this banquet, a delegate from
Alpha Gamma the McGill Chapter, spoke
of Alpha Eta as their daughter chapter.
The second speaker Dr. MacNeil of Philadelphia,himself a Nova Scotian, mentioned
as a matter of British pride that the first
fraternity began in 1750 at William and
Mary College in, the Prevince of Virginia, as the Society of the Flat Hand, or
Alpha Omega Alpha. The final speaker
Dr. Elhott, Secretary-Treasurer of the
Grand Council, outlined the fraternal
history and gave some advice of chapter
experiences. This has been followed, and
Alpha Eta, though small in membership,
is firmly established, possesses its own
fraternity house and is prospering.

THE DOCTOR IN MACBETH
Act V, Scene II.

Macb. How does your patient, doctor?

 

Doct. Not so sick, my lcrd,
As she is troubled with coming
fancies
That keep her from her rest.
Macb. Cure her of that;
Can’st thou not minister to a
mind diseased,
Pluck out from the memory a
rocted sorrow,
Raze out the written trcubles
of the brain
And with)}some sweet, oblivious
antidate
Cleanse the stuffed bosom of the
perilous stuff
Which weighs upon the heart?
Doct. Therein the patient
Must minister to himself.
Macb. Throw physic to the dogs; 1’ll
have none of it:
lf thou could’st, dcctor, cast the
_ Waters cf my land
Find her disease and purge it to
sound health,
1 would applaud thee to the very |
echo,
That should applaud again; Pull |
off 1 ‘say.
What rhubarb, cyme or what
purgative drug
Would scour those English hence?
Doct. (aside) Were 1 from Dunsinane

away and clear,
Profit again should hardly draw
me here.

HISTORICAL OUTLINE

(Continued from page /.)

was always so close that the college, although separately incorporated and controlled, might almost have been regarded
as a part of the university. The college
struggled along for several years but the
classes were not large, and the income was

Dalhousians Sports
Goods Depot

Agents and Distributors of the
famous SWIPER HOCKEY
STICK. Special discounts to

clubs.

MacDonald Hardware Co.
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

  
 
 

15‘ per pkt.
29 for dd*

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufactured by
Imperial Tobacco Ca of Canada, Limited.

Kine of
CIGARETTES

 

 
   
  

eof
/

   

 

practically limited to that obtained from
the fees of students. While the teachers got ridiculously small honoraria—
and sometimes none at all—it was found
impossible to satisfactorily maintain the
equipment with the limited funds available. The spirit of the teaching staff
remained undaunted, but tie feeling developed steadily that the only solution of
the difficulties which kept increasing lay
in the resumption of medica} teaching by
the university.

Meantime much dissatisfaction
being expressed relative to the quality
of the work being done in many of the
medical schools of the United States, and
the Carnegie Corporation had accepted
an invitation to appoint a commission to
investigate all of these schools in the republic. This commission extended its
investigation to Canadian schools, and
its report on the Halifax Medical College

cal Sciences Building, the University
Health Centre and the enlarged Pathological Institute have all been opened
within two years. This expansion has
been made possible, in the case of the
hospitals, by the liberality of our people,
and in the case of the university buildings
by the liberality of\the Carnegie Ccrporation and the Rockefeller Foundation,
The Carnegie nd Rockefeller gifts came
in recognition of the splendid manner in
which the hospitals had been cooperating

was | with Dalhousie, of the fine spirit shown

by the medical teaching staff under the
most discouraging conditions of other
days, and of the reputation achieved by
our medical graduates. These gifts have
made it possible for the University to
provide the excellent laboratcries we now
have and to swell the full-time teaching
staff to its present proportions. From
very modest beginnings, the school has

was so unfavourable that impetus was| grown to rank among the best on the con
given to the desire that medical teaching
in Halifax should be under university
auspices. Negotiations were at once
commenced with the result that, in 1911,
the university again assumed responsibility
for the maintenance cof a teaching faculty in medicine.

_ Except in biology, chemistry and phys1CS, which had been taught at the university, all the instruction had thus far
been given by practising physicians and
surgeons. As socn as reorganization was
effected full time chairs were established
in anatomy and physiology. The chair

|1In anatomy was endowed by the late Dr.

D. A. Campbell, as a memorial to his son.
Dr. D. G. J. Campbell. The Forrest
Building was still being occupied by the
Faculty of Arts, and medical teaching
was continued in the old building of the
Medical College until 1915. Thereafter,
until other buildings became available
the Forrest Building furnished the facilities for practically all the didactic teaching.

It is obvious from this that the present
equipment of the Dalhousie Medical
School is a development of very recent
years. The same may be said of the
larger share cf the opportunities for clinical teaching which our students now enjoy. The Victoria General Hospital was
substantially enlarged a few vears age,
The Children’s Hospital, the Tuberculosis Hospital and the Grace Maternity
Hospital are new institutions. The Medi
 

  

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

 
 

 

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

 

 

tinent.

A little reflection will lead to the conviction that the larger share of the credit
for this advance is due to the clinical
teachers, who have throughout all these
years laboured so unselfishly for humanity
and for our school. It is they who have
established confidence in our hospitals,
who have really made hospitals possible,
and who have contributed much more
than money towards the building up of
the school. But everycne who has held
a teaching position has also contributed
his share, and those occupying the more
humble positions deserve credit which
we are perhaps apt to overlook. And in
connection with the recent developments,
only those who have been associated with
them can have any ccnception of the
amount of work entailed upon our President and members of the Board of Governors. They are entitled to our mcst
profound gratitude. As for our benefactors, we shall surely not forget them.
We did not and do not lack in men who
can do things, but we sorely needed
money—and without it we could not have
the fine equipment in which we now take
much pride. There are still many things
wished for, and more money is really
needed, but as we are confident that the
work of the school merits still further

 

benefactions we feel sure that these will
be soon forthcoming and that our school
will continue to grow vigorously for many
a year to come, ’

 

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

“pp

a “gat of
‘of Fate, full

dom

   

ihe Keturft Of
Rajcovu

oo

Cause and Instruments
all well 1 know your tired wis1 and the fearlessness of your hearts.

 

Are you prepared to obey, as hitherto

you have done, without comment, question or suggestion?”

“We are prepared,”’ came gravely and
inctly from the lips of the persons ad
“Then go, and fail not, lest 1 exert the

s which 1 have gathered from beards

that are white with wisdom and ring you
round with a more fearful fate.”

The Mahatma had ken; the secret
council was ended, and Parjanali the Wise
and Heraman the Faithful passed from
his presence, charged with the staging of
the final act of an Oriental drama which
had its beginning on the shores of faroff India

The dreamful radiance of a star-lit
West Indian sky enwrapped the island
of Trinidad, the new Mecca of the Western Hemisphere. To this land, Rajcoumar of the inferior Banya caste, had
fled, carrying with him the daughter of a
Mahatma—Suniah the Peerless, a
captive of his fateful love.

The adamantine Caste system of India had proved an effectual barrier against
a legal union between two persons so far
removed in caste; but Nature’s man had
met Nature’s woman. Tall, strong and
handsome, the daring young Banya leader had set at nought the man-made system
of his country. The rai of his ee
having responded to his urging, together
they had taken leave of sun-kissed Calcutta and crossed the heaving Atlantic
to begin their new life in Tropical Trinidad.
The lasting disgrace thus brought upon
the house of Sundarsingh, bit deep into
the soul of the unforgiving Mahatma.
Summoning to his aid two of the most
faithful of the School of Oriental Scientists of which he was the Head, he held his
council of vengeance, laid his commands
upon them, and sent them forth, commissioned to bring about the return of Rajcoumar. Te

The deep silence of the midnight hour
brooded over the Naparimas. The tall
wavy immortalles on the Southern boundary of the Golcouda Cocoa Estate were
like sentinels protecting the solitary dwelling beneath. The two inmates of the
little house were in restful sleepy and all
nature was quiet without.

Suddenly Rajcoumar the Banya stirred
uneasily in his slumber, then awoke with
a start, and in the dark groped along the
length of the rough kattia on which he
reposed for the sleeping form of his room
_ mate, but only the rough canvas and un
planed boards met his outstretched hand.

“Suniah! Suniah!’’ he called softly;
but no answer came to relieve his growing anxiety. Again he called, but still
the deep, oppressive silence. Fully awake
and now thoroughly alarmed, he sprang
from the kattia and began a hurried
search in the dark for candle and matches
which could not be found. Then it was
that a low whirring sound caught his ear
and held him motionless. Suddenly and
without warning, there came a blinding
flash of light which temporarily deprived
him of the power of sight. It filled the
room, then gradually toned down to about
ten candlepower. Bb, ews

Rajcoumar was now able to take in his
surroundings. The spectacle upon which
he gazed was one that numbed his limbs
and bereft him of speech.

At the farther end of the room, clad
in dark flowing robes, with the symbol of
the Sundarsingh School worked in red
silk about their waists, stood two bearded
men; silent, imposing and’menacing. Even as he looked, recognition was instant
and mutual, and Rajcoumar realized that
he was in the presence of the trusted emissaries of the Mahatma. Stretched at
their feet lay the still form of the beautiful Suniah.

“Greeting, O Rajcoumar the Serpent,
with . cunning equal to thy courage.

$24.00

Suit or
Over Coat.

Best value

 

   
        

to your measure.
in Canada.

    
 

See the many advantages |
we offer over sending away

 
   
 

thousands of miles for your
clothes.

    
  

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

     

——— i

—__ nena

SS

 

Greeting in the name of the Living Death.”’
The speaker was Parjan Ali the Wise.
From under his cloak he took a footsquare black box and deposited it carefully on a rough deal table that stood on
his right:

Well the Banya knew with whom he had
to deal. Death was in every word, in
every gesture of his enemies, but not thus
would he die—he who had been called the
Serpent because of his strength and cunning. Summoning all the force cf his
will the Banya broke the spell. His ever
ready cutlass was snatched from the
wall and the keen blade whirled aloft as
he leaped across the room.

Motionless the two emissaries awaited
the rush, and only when the desperate
man was almost within striking distance
did Parjan Ali throw his right hand out
with a peculiar waving motion. The effect was magical.

Caught in the sure grip of some mysterious power the Banya was checked in
full career with terrible suddeness. Invisible bands of steel had fastened themselves about his bedy and on his strcng
limbs; his arm remained poised aloft still
gripping the now useless weapon, and
there he stood, glaring down upon his terrible foes, unable to move or speak.

For the space of ten seconds did the
thrilling tableau reniain, then stepping
forward Parjan Ali wrenched the cutlass from the Banya’s fingers and flung
it into the fire-place.

“Violence will not avail, most wretched
of men,”’ murmured the Mystic. “Why
fight against the law of Retribution?”

Leaving the spell-bound Rajcoumar in
the -same strained cataleptic condition,
the dread visitors lifted the body of the
girl from the floor and laid it upon the
kattia. Not a sound issued from the
Banya’s immovable lips as he looked
down upon the dead form of the woman
who had loved him as he had loved her—
to the end of all things; only his eyes,
frightful to behold, gave evidence of the
emotions which were rending his spirit.

When all seemed in readiness for the
final scene of the drama, Parjan Ali, the
appointed spokesman, turned the rigid
form of the prisoner round as he would
have done a marble statue, and addressed
the doomed man in measured tones:

“This is the end, O Rajcoumar the Serpent. But this for your information before we tear this dark page from our history. We are here with a double purpose:
To execute the sentence cf Sundarsingh for
the wrong which has made him the scorned of all India; and, in the interest of Occult science, as an extreme penalty for
thy crime, to demonstrate upon thee the
possibility of linking a human soul with
a living organism chosen from a lower
crder of life.

“Suniah the faithless shall nct share
this fate. She shall but die; her jewelled
hand alone shall be returned to Sundarsingh as proof of our obedience. For
you, the Living Death is reserved.’
Then turning to the silent Heraman he
gave an order.

The box which they had brought with
them was now opened. Heraman made
a few mystic passes over its hidden contents, then putting in his hand he drew
a live serpent cf the cobra species, fully
five feet in length. The wicked looking
reptile, upon being released, squirmed
about the table then coiled itself up near
the box with head erect and tongue darting as though ready to strike at a moment’s notice.

“Behold,” continued Parjan Ali, moving the table within range of the Banya’s
vision. “Behold the form with which
you will be linked, and by means of which
you will keep in touch with things physical. As Rajcoumar the Serpent thou
art known, and Rajcoumar the Serpent
thou shalt continue to be, for thy ccnsciousness shall be merged into that of the
reptile. Not forever has thou been doomed to suffer; it is not in the order of things.
On the death of thy serpent body thou
shalt be free. But take heed, in thy next
human incarnation, that the errors of the
past and their certain consequences be
not repeated. And now—Farewell.”’

The light of an awful despair shone inthe
eyes of the ill-fated Rajcoumar. No longer did the two avengers regard him as a
living sentient being. All that was necessary had been said, and they now moved
to their appointed tasks.

A long and slow pass was made over
his eyes, and the Banya sank into an in
 

 

Cable Address: ‘*McINNES"”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Souicirors &c.,

HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C. Macdonald, K.C
Stuart Jenks, K. C. FP. B. A. Chipman
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. E, MacKay

 

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’'S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert s=rvice. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Hatn Cutie is sure
to satisfy. Lapres’ Hata Curtine in all
styles; also Curtinc, SHampooinc and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.
Phone S 4780 41 Sackville St.

       
   
   
   
         
       
 

 

  
   
   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

sensibility as effectual as that which is
produced by the most powerful of anaesthetics.

Speechless the Banya stood while the

iercing deep-set eyes of the silent two

ed him in a powerful hypnotic gaze
which robbed him of energy and caused
him to realize that at last the hour of his
supreme trial was at hand. .

Sundry glittering instruments were now
brought to light from the hidden pockets
of their robes. Sterilization formed no
part of the proceedings.

Quickly the Banya was stretched upon
the outer part of the kattia and his head
brought into prominence. With the precision and rapidity of a skilled surgeon,
the hair was shaved from the frent of the
head and a circular incision made, embracing the frontal eminences and the
upper part of the temporal fossae. The
periostium was raised with the flap by
means of a periosteal elevator and the
frontal bone laid bare, bleeding being
temporarily checked by an array of small
artery forceps.

A trephine of great dimensions was
next brought into use; its centre-pin found
the mid point of each eminence in turn,
and operated by Parjan Ali, the circular
sawing went on till the bone comprising
the frontal eminences was cut through
down to the dura mater. Deftly this
strong fibrous membrane was removed
by Heraman with scalpel and forceps,
following the line of the circular opening
in the skull.

The brain lay exposed.

Ali now turned his attention to the serpent. Anterior to the central point in
the head he made a diamond shaped opening and brought into view the immature
corbral hemispheres. In the meantime
with practised swiftness Heraman had
cut deep into the gray matter of the
frontal lobes of the man anterior to the
superior horizental fissure. A few minutes of careful dissection brought him to
the end of his search: Two tiny bodies,
each about the size of a pea, buried in the
brain substance of each lobe, were revealed.

These were the Mahaparacentrales:
known to Occultism as the focal areas of
mind, the two forming the seat of the
soul, and which were immediately absorbed by the brain tissue on the departure
of the ego from its mortal tenement.

The cerebral hemispheres of the snake
were next punctured and swiftly tha Mahaparacentrales were taken from the head
of the Banya and thrust deep into the
brain of the snake. The diamond-shaped flap was adjusted and strapped into
place with adhesive plaster.

The body of the Banya had lived its
space, and now lay dying. Then began
the weird process of a double concentration upon the departing soul of Rajcoumar.
By the combined effort of their united
wills and their deep knowledge of the
secret laws of Nature, ithe natural sinking of the soul into the state of temporary
unconsciousness which follows death,
was arrested by the two Mystics, and the
Ego, completely dominated by the applied
volition of the occulists, forced to sink
into the body of the snake; the transferred
Mahaparacentrales forming the accustomed throne-piece in its new habitation.
The unifying of the two consciousnesses
was accomplished by powerful and repeated suggestions.

As soon as the last act of the awful rite
was finished, a series of undulations ripped
along the entire length of the cobra.
These soon gave placé to sudden twists
and violent contortions of so powerful a
nature that it took the combined strength
of the two men to cram it back into the
box, hissing and striking with a fury and
quickness never before exhibited. —

The drama was ended and the
vengeance of Sundarsingh exacted in
fullest measure.

Two months later at their headquarters
in India Heraman the Faithful and Parjan Ali the Wise were admitted to the
presence of the Mahatma, At his feet
they laid the horrid proofs of their implicit obedience.

On a certain day appointed for the occasion, a select company of Occultists,
Fakirs and Chelas assembled in the palace of the Mahatma Guru to view the
new prodigy in the realm of Occult Science, and to celebrate in dark, mystic
rites the return of Rajcoumar. j

RF. eC.

 

|

CASINO

First Three Days Next Week

6é The
Merry Widow’’

      
  

 

Last Three Days
Corinne Griffith

IN

“‘Cllas sified ’’

a.

    
   

me

MAG

\

= we
“= W

EWN
; ye o\

Y SS
La =
— Ko
SS oe

UM, bis

Ce \) t
EAA

SNS o> RN

 

 

S. S. CAMPBELL, L. L. D., Chairman of the Board of Governors.

 

Majestic Notes

The Glossop-Harris Company have
just three more performances in Halifax.
Milestones is a delightful comedy and
has been most enthusiastically received
by the Majestic patrons during the week.
Nobody can afford to miss this last and
possibly greatest performance of Miss
Glossop-Harris and her colleagues. It
is with the greatest regret that all will
witness the departure of this talented
company.

Next week the Dumbells, old Halifax
favorites, will present their seventh annual revue—Lucky 7. With gorgeous
new costumes and settings the company
are staging a performance which tends
to surpass all their previous efforts. Al
Plunkett has two new and catchy numbers, as has Ross Hamilton. Stan Bennett makes a big hit in “Stop, look and
Listen,” Ben Allen, the best tenor in
the company gives his voice full scope
in “Susannah’s Squeaking Shoes.” The
Orchestra has eight pretty numbers and
the finale “Melodies of Yesteryear,” with
the entire company, is most appealing.

 

If 1 were the devil and sat on his throne |

And my heart were as hard as a rock,
I’d condemn to the blast,

For as long as they’d last,

The fools who in life called me “doc,”

HIGH
CLASS

FAIRLY |

JEWELRY FAIRLY |
H. C. HENDERSON

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville |

 

 

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes.

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

|| If You Want to See Well

See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE .

Optometrist & Optician Y. M. C. A. Bldg.

 

One of the Bulwarks of the Medical School

V1

WARN, WV

a ok
CN X Ww
\

IN

 

 
 

y

~ ot ee ec Et eer

ie. eet ne Smee ees em ete

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Novembcr 27, 1925

. . . Departments of the Medical School and their Professors .. .

 

_ The Elementary Classes of the

Medical

The studies of the medical student dur
ing his first two years seem to have very
littlé in common with the study of medicine. They give, however, an intellectual
and, social training which he will find beneficial in his future years of work. The
subjects are the following: English 1A,
History 1A, and 2A, Physics 1 and 20,
Chemistries 1A, 2A and 4, and Biclogy

1A.

English 1A consists of a study of the development of literature from early to more
modern times. Special emphasis is laid
on the stady of lyric poetry asthe simplest
form of literature. The last few weeks
of the year are devoted almost entirely
to the study of medieval and modern
plays.

This class is conducted by Professor C.
L.. Bennet M. A. (Camb.) Prof. Bennet
came to Dalhousie four years ago. He
has an overseas record and saw active
service as Battalion Sergeant Majer in
the New Zealand Army. After the war
he went to Cambridge where he received
his B. A. He received his M. A. from
Cambridge this spring.

History 1A or History of Thought treats
the development of thought from the old
stone age to the present time. Espectally'does it stress the thought which comes
to us from Egypt, The Fertile Crescent,
Greece and Rome. This class is conducted by A. Stanley Walker, M. A.
(Leeds and Birm.) Professor Walker is
professor of History at King’s University
and came to Dalhousie three years ago.
He was formerly of the Ohio State University. Professor Walker has taken
part in archaeological expediticns in Italy
and is well versed in the study of antiquities. As a man he has a charming
personality and is held in high esteem by
the faculty and students of Dalhousie.

History 2A or “The Influence of Science
on Civilization’’ consists of a series of
lectures given by different professors, each

, treating the effect which his own particu
lar science has had on previous civilizations, and is having on our own.

Physics 1 treats the stibjects of Kinematics, Dynamics, Properties of Matter,
Sound, Heat, Electricity and Magnetism,
Light and other forms of Radiation. The
lectures are illustrated by experiment,
and special attention is paid to the solution of problems which deal with the
various subjects cf the course. The fortnightly quizz is the delight of all the members of' this class. Two hours per week
are devoted to laboratory work, the experiments being selected to help the student understand the lectures more thoroughly.

Physics 20 treats of Light, Sound, Xradiation, and Radio-activity. As in the
case of Physics 1, laboratory work, weekly problems, and fortnightly quizzes are
important factors of this course. Both
Physics 1, and 20, are conducted by J. H.
L. Johnstone, M. Sc. (Dal.) Ph. D.
(Yale). Dr. Johnstone received his M.
Sc. from Dalhousie, and proceeded to
Yale where he received his Ph. D. in two

ears. He saw service in Gallopoli during the war, as an artillery officer. The
preciseness and accuracy which characterized him in his student days are still
to be seen in his methods of teaching.

Chemistry 1A first treats of the laws
ef combination, after which the atomic
theory and the formation of compounds
are taken up. The non-metallic elements

Student

are then studied while later on the more
important elements are touched on briefly. The laboratory work consists of
simple experiments, their object being to
explain certain points in the lectures.

This class is conducted by C. B. Nickerson A. M. (Clark), assisted in the laboratory by D. MacIntosh, B. A., B. Sc.
(Dal), A. M. (Cornell) D. Sc. (McGill.)
F. R. S. C., Research Professor of Chemistry and Head of the Department, and
E. W. Todd, B. A., (Dal). Professor
Nickerson has been on the Dalhousie
teaching staff for a number of years, and
‘has proved himself a great asset to the
faculty. His patience in the classroom
and laboratory has left a lasting impression on all those so fortunate as to take
classes with him.

Chemistry 2A is an advanced course
in Inorganic Chemistry and Qualitative
Analysis. The principal part of the work
is done in the laboratory and consists of
the analysis of unknown substances. One
lecture is given each week closely following the laboratory work,

Chemistry 4 is a course in Organic
Chemistry. The lectures are given twice
a week, which are illustrated in the laboratory by the qualitative analysis of organic compounds. In addition to this,
laboratory methods of Organic Chemistry are studied.

Chemistry 2A and 4 are conducted by
H. S. King, A. B. (Harvard): assisted in
the laboratory by E. W. Todd. Professor King came to Dalhousie four years
ago and has proved himself to be a valuable addition to the Medical faculty.

Biology 1A treats of two subjects, Bctany and Zoology. Lectures are given
three times a week and are followed by a
laboratory period illustrating the lecture
previously given. The whole course
treats of materials and methods which
are important to the Medical Student in
his later years of study.

The lectures and laboratory work in
Botany are conducted by Hugh P. Bell,
M. Sc., (Dal.) Ph. D. (Tor.), Associate
Professor of Botany. Dr. Bell took his
M. Sc. degree just before the war and
went overseas in his early days. He served as Company Commander in the famous Royal Canadian Regiment and had a
brilliant record. He was severely wounded in action and invalided out of the fight
in 1917. After the war Dr. Bell’s capacity as a research worker was recognized
in the award of a Research Council
Scholarship. He went to Toronto University and there received his M. A. and
Ph. D. degrees.

The Zoological part of the work is conducted by J. Nelson Gowanlock, B. A.
B. Sc. (Man.), Associate Professor of
Zoology. Professor Gowanlock received
both his degrees from the University of
Manitoba. From there, where he taught
for some time, he went to the University
of Chicago for further study and was also
on the teaching staff. During the session of 1922-23 he was head of the Department of Biology at Wabash College,
Indiana, coming to Dalhousie in the fall
of 1923. Professor Gowanlock is an enthusiast in his particular science and a
talented Zoologist.

These subjects form the labor of the
embryo medical student and make a solid
foundation on which he may build up his
medical career.

 

The Anatomy
Department

The department of Anatomy includes as
well as that of Gross Anatomy, the department of Histology and Embryology.
Previous to the fall of 1y23 Dr. Cameron
undertook besides his ‘regular work, a
didactic course in Embryclogy, and Dr.
Fraser Harris, who was professor of Physiology, taught Histology. In 1423 the
instructicn of Histclogy and Embryology
was taken over by Frofessor Bean, and
these were made a distinct department.

At the present time the professor of
Anatcmy is Dr. John Camercn, M. D.

&C.,M. R. C.S. He occupies the Dr.
D. G. J. Campbell Memorial Chair of
Anatomy. Dr. Cameron graduated with
Hcnours from Edinburgh in 1898, and
from 1898 to 1905 was Assistant in Anatomy at St. Andrew’s University, during
one year of which period he had entire
charge of the department. During 19051908 he was Senior Demonstrator in Anatomy at the University of Manchester,
and head of the department cf Anatomy
at the Middelsex Hospital Medical School,
University of London, from 1908 until
his coming to Dalhousie. He was Research Student in Anatcmy at St. Andrew’s for two years, and Research Fellow for three years, and for three years
held the Carnegie Research Fellowship,
during part of which time he studied und
(Edin.), D. Sc. (St. And.), F. R. SS. E. | er the well-known Professor His at Leip
THE PRESIDENT

 

A. STANLEY MACKENZIE, Ph.D., L.L.D., D.C.L., F.R.S.C.

 

zig. For his thesis for the degree of M.
D. he received a) university gold medal
from Edinburgh | University. He also
won several other medals, including the
gold medal in Anatomy. He was secretary for England and a member cf the
council of the Anatcmical Society of
Great Britain and Ireland. He was examiner in Anatomy to the University of
London, and to the conjoint examining
board of the Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons, London.

Dr. Cameron is assisted in the Anatomy
laboratory by city doctors, including Dr.
Alan Curry, Dr. Victor Mader, and Dr.
Gerald Grant who also gives the first year
Anatomy students tutorials on the bones.
A set of these bones is also available for
each student to take home, so that they
may study them outside of class as well
as in the class-room.

The text-books used are Dr. Cameron’s
“Osteology and Arthrology”” which was
published in 1922, and his “Regional Anatomy”’ which was published in 1920.

The course in Anatomy extends over
two years and within that time each part
cf the body is dissected at least once and
most parts twice by each student.

The Anatcmy laboratory consists of
the dissecting room and a museum which
has been opened recently and which contains all the bones of the skeletcn as well
as several Anatomical models.

The fact that not more than two students
are allctted to a “‘part”’ has a distinct advantage in ennabling them tc learn a
great deal from their own dissection.
Their interest is also stimulated by the
fact that Dr. Cameron offers prizes of
medical books which are of great assistance to the student in his future werk.

The department of Histology and Embryology is under the supervision of Prof.
Raymond J. Bean, M. S. (N.H.) Prof.
Bean was instructor in Zoology at the
University of New Hampshire from 19161918. He spent about one year in war
work in the Naval Department, and was
for four years on the instructing staff in
Histclogy of Western Reserve University.
He has done research work at the Marine
Biological Laboratory, Wcod’s Hole, under Pref, Lillie of the University cf Chicago.
Six hours a week are given to Histology,

which consists in the study of the minute |

 

MEDICAL SCIENCE BUILDING. Photo by MacAskill.

PATHOLOGICAL BUILDING. Pioro by MacAskill.

 

 

 

structure of the tissues and organs of the
human body, their development and primary functions. Over 100 sets of slides
are available for this in the laboratcry
which is also used for Embryology, and
which is unusual in that it is well-lighted
from three sides. Each student has his
own microsccpe lamp and microscope,
which is a splendid instrument.

In the Embryological department three
hours a week are given to laboratory work
and one hour for lecture. ‘The course comprises the study of the development cf
the frog, chick, pig and human embryoes
and slides are available for this, some of
which are serial sections and some
whole mounts. A number of charts
which have been made, and several purchased during the past two years, are of
great assistance to the students.

An Embryological museum has been
recently started and Anatomical
models have been acquired which show
the development of certain organs.
There is a serial section model of developing check and also a complete set showing
the embryology of the chick and a complete set of the frog up to the tadpole
stage. Four cases showing the develcpment of the human Embryo from the unsigmented ovum up to the fourth month
of development, have arrived recently,
and more are on order from Germany.
One of the cases cf the human and all
those cf the chick are French wax models
of especially fine workmanship.

In connecticn with this department
there is also a well-equipped research room
with an excellent electric drying oven and
a library which contains a good reference
stock fcr the students in both Histology
and Embryology. This Library was begun by Prof. Bean and it now contains
many Scientific reprints for research references and there is on the way a complete file of Carnegie Embryclogical Publicaticns,

In connection with this department the
proposal course in Neurology which is to
be put on this year for the first time ought
also to be mentioned. For the teaching
of this course several new models including the famous Hurley set and the Gaylord P. Clarke model of the central nervous system are to be used as well as an
extensive collection of lantern Slides, and
a complete series of histclogical slides of
the brain stem. By the cooperative

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY

SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

OL et ee en en er

scheme whereby the grass anatomy of the
nervous system will be taken simultaneously with the histological structure,
the number of hours spent in this course
is close to the average as compared with
other medical schcols.

Department of
Physiology

 

Physiology is the basis of modern medicine and this fact cannot be impressed too
much on the medical student of to-day,
Without a thorough knowledge of the
basic principles, as well as of the more
intricate details of this subject, many of
our latest methods for the treatment of
disease would be abortive. It forms the
ground-work for the study of neurology
and heart diseases, and for the treatment
of intestinal and kidney troubles. That
Dalhousie has not been slow to recognize
this, is shown by the up-to-date department, scientifically equipped, which she
possesses at the present time. From the
foundation cof the Medical School there
has been a department of Physiology, the
Professor at first being one cof the busy
city doctors. Dr. D. Fraser Harris appointed in 1911 was the first full-time
man. In addition to having sole charge
of Physiology he had Histology and Biochemistry as well. In these three subjects he was allotted but four rooms, a
lecture-room, laboratory and an office on
the third floor of Forrest Hall, and for his
frog-work in Physiology a smal] ill-lighted
room in the basement. There was no
mammalian work of any kind. Handicapped by overwork and lack of equipment as he was, yet he found time for an
enormous amount of research work on
the nervous system. On account of illhealth he was forced to return to England
in 1922. In 1923 the methods of teaching Physiology in Dalhousie were revi lutionized, with the removal to new
quarters in the Medical Science Building.
Dr. Cassidy of McGill temporarily took
charge. In 1924 the present staff consisting of the head of the Department,
his assistant and a laboratory technician
were appointed and the present excellent
course in Physiology mapped out.

Professor Boris P. Babkin, the head of
our Department of Physiology, has had
super-imposed upon a scientific career of
great distinction, activities far remote
from the usual curriculum of theoretical
and experimental physiology. Few of
Dr. Babkin’s students, for instance, may
know that for some months he was Director of Child Feeding in the District of
Odessa. I1t was, in fact, his scientifically
impartial administration of this relief
work, that finally brought down down upon him arrest and banishment.

Dr. Babkin studied at the Military
Medical Academy of St. Petersburg and
from 1900-1912 was assistant to Panlor,
the most distinguished physiclogist living. He was lecturer in physiology at

the Military Medical Academy, then
studied abroad under Emil Fischu at

Berlin, under Herring, at Leipzig and at
the Staziona Zoological in Naples, Italy.
Frem 1912-14 Dr. Babkin was professor
of animal physiology in the Nova Alexandria Institute of Agriculture near Warsaw and from 1915-1922 in the University
of Odessa. Immediately succeeding the
revolution he was forced to take charge
of Pharmacology and Bicchemistry in
addition to his regular work. The registration in his medical classes rcse from
150, for whom equipment had been provided, to over 800. Conditions become
so bad, finally, that he was forced to give
up his University werk, but he at once
took charge of the work of the American
Relief Commission in Odessa. Arrest

(Continued on page 5 column 1.)

 

     
  
   

 

 

Christmas Cards

In buying your Christmas
Cards now you have a complete
and extensive stock to choose from.
_ We have an exceptionally fine
line of personal, individual and
novelty cards at the right prices.

FARRELL’S
391 BARRINGTON STREET
Come In And Brouse Around

  

 

 

Freshmen and Freshettes

We have something very
SPECIAL to offer you for
onemonth. Getour prices
on group and individual

PHOTOGRAPHS
“CLIMO’’

For Distinctive Photographs
501 Barrington St. Phone S 1395

 

 
   
  

=
i be

a

;
>

   
    
 
 
 
       
   
   
     
   

ectures and three hours

November 27, 1925

ab =

cs

JOHN STEWART

| i. DEAN OF THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE

 

 

LS |

W. H: HATTIE, M.D., C.M.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY | modelled on the course of Prof, Sir Charles

(Continued from page 4 column 5)

and banishment ended these activities.
Soon afterward Dr. and Mrs. Babkin arrived in England where he carried on
investigations under the British Medical
Research Council at London University
In 1924 he joined the Dalhousie staff.

Dr. Babkin’s researches have entered
several fields but his most special interest
has always been in the phenomina of digestive secretions. A four hundred page
book “Die Aussere Sekretion Der Verdanungsdrusen sdrusen,” published by
Springer in Berlin, 1914, is one item of Dr.
Babkin’s notable list of published work.
During the past summer Dr. Babkin completed the manuscript of the section on
secretion of the digestive glands, that he
is contributing to the immense, seventeen
volume “Handbuch Der Normalen und
Pathologischen Physiologie,’’ now appearing under the editorship of Bethe and
Embden.

Dr. Babkin received his M. D. from
the Military Medicai Academy of St.
Petersburg in 1904 and the degree of D.
Sc. from the University cf London last
May.

Dr. N. B. Dreyer, the assistant, enjoys
the distinction of being the tallest man in
Dalhousie. He was born in South Africa
where he received his earlier education
then he went to Oxford as the Christopher
Welch Scholar. While there he was also
assistant to Sir Charles Sherrington. He
next went to London as the Sharpey
Scholar in University College, where he
carried out research work on the effects
of pituitun on plain muscle fibre under
Professor Starling. In Munich he studied Pharmacology under W. Straub, and
for the two years previous to coming to
Dalhousie he was the Senicr Assistant in
Pharmacclogy in University College, London. Although stiila young man he has
done considerable research work and has
ublished papers in both German and

nglish. At the present time he has
several papers ready fer publication, one
being entitled “Some Effects of Anoxaemia on the Circulation” and a joint paper with -Professor Babkin on Salivary
Gland work. This paper gives the technique for perfusing the glands through
the heart without removing them from
the body, a method hitherto not worked
out.

In addition to Dr. Dreyer and Dr.
Babkin, there is a full-time labcratory
technician employed.

Instruction is given to both third and
fourth year.students. The third year
Medicals and Dentals receive three hours
laboratory per
week. The laboratory work covers the
circulation and nerve-muscle preparations.
In addition a number of demonstrations
are given on the different mammalion
systems.

The fourth year medica! students receive two hours per week lectures and in
addition have two three-hour periods
each week of practical mommalian work

DALHOUSIE

Christmas Cards

Stamped with the College Crest

in the College colors.
Your name printed on each card.

$1.75 Dozen

CONNOLLYS

487 Barrington Street
Opposite St. Paul’s Church

  

Sherrington. Under this scheme each
student actually carries out all the technique for. himself, The enthusiasm_ of
the advanced year is proof positive of its
superiority over the old time demonstrations.

The floor space is quite adequate, consisting of offices, lecture room, demonstration theatre and preparation room,
dark room for photography, library, two
research laboratories fully equipped and
a special students laboratory in the basement. In additicn there is a mechanics
work-shop, special quarters for mammals
a fowls and a frog tank. The rooms
through out are equipped with compressed air.

The equipment is all up-to-date, no
old apparatus or stock being used. The
thirty-eight kymographs for third
year work are the latest models and are
electrically driven, the drive shaft being
placed not overhead, but on the bench.
For mammalian work there are special
tables and kymographs which were made
by the Dalhousie mechanician. Complete sets of polygraphs, sphyemographs
models of special sense organs and apparatus for use on these organs have been
obtained.

An asceptic animal hospital, the only
one in Canada as far as known, has been
fitted up and work in this Department
will commence within the next few weeks.
Dogs and rabbits are used. The Hospital consists of the operating theatre, and
an anaesthetic and autoclave rcom.
The “ward” containing a special animal
bath and separate cubicles for the animals, completes this miniature hospital
which, altho small, is adequate for present
needs.

In the natural sciences it is not only
essential to have a theoretical knowledge
but to apply it to processes as they appear.
in the living body. With this aim in view
it is proposed to arrange a course in
Clinical Physiology which will serve as a
real link between physiology and Medcine. The course will comprise exercise
on blood grouping reactions, lowered
atmospheric pressure, methods of blood
clotting, viscosity of blood, artificial
schemes of circulation, vital capacity,
etc., and will be given in the fourth year.

The installation of an electro cardiograph is also anticipated. It will be
placed in the Physiology Department
and will be used by the Department and
by clinicians connected with the Victoria
General Hospital.

 

Department of
Biochemistry

 

Previous to the year 1923, Biochemistry, as taught at Dalhousie consisted in a
series of lectures, and some laboratory
work, under Dr. Fraser Harris. As Dr.
Harris also had to devote his attentions
to the subjects of Physiology, Histclogy
and Embryology, the time spent on Biochemistry was of necessity very limited.
A change occurred however, with the donation of substantial, sums of money by
the Rockefeller and Carnegie Foundations. The conditions of these gifts provided for, and insisted on, the appcintment of full time men to look after these
subjects, and also provided for a building
with facilities for the proper teaching of
these important classes.

The fall of 1923 found the department
of Biochemistry situated in the new Medieal Science building, with Dr. E. Gordon Young in charge. The building and
equipment are admirably suited for
teaching as well as for research work,

There are two large laboratories, research
laboratories, lecture theatre and offices,
devoted to Biochemistry alone. The
equipment, valued at over $5000.00 is
modern in every detail, and is specialized
for research work in Bacterial Metabolism.
Thru the efforts of Dr. Young, a very
complete Museum of chemicals related
to the science has been collected.

In selecting Dr. Me uts to head this
new department, the University authorities made a happy choice, beth from the
point of view of the students and of the
Faculty. Dr. Young’s scholastic attainments are indeed envious, and are
second only to his ability to impart the
knowledge which he has acquired, to his
students. He is a graduate of McGill,
cbtaining the degrees of Bachelor of Arts
and Master of Science from that University. For three years after his graduation he held a position in the Department of Chemistry at McGill, and had
the honor of being chosen as the first
Canadian to go to Cambridge University
on a Ramsay Memorial Fellowship.
Here he spent two years specializing in
Biochemistry and received the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy. Qn returning to
Canada in 1921, he was appointed to the
staff of the University of Western Ontario, and in July 1923 he was chosen to
occupy the chair of Biochemistry at Dalhousie. His student days are not yet
over, as he is soon to receive the M. D.
C. M. degrees from the University of
Chicago, being enrolled in the summer
course there.

Dr. Young’s accomplishments are far
from being limited to the sphere of his
own particular profession. He is a talented musician and sportsman, a regular
attendant at all University games and
functions, and a member of the Dalhousie
Professors Volley Ball Team. He has
that characteristic of Medical Professors,
namely that of keeping the interests of
the students first in his mind, developed
tc a high degree.

The course in Biochemistry at present
extends over two years, and consists in
lectures and laboratery work for the students in the third and fourth years of the
Medical Course. The fourth year students in addition are given lectures and
laboratory work in Laboratory Diagnosis
This class is also conducted by Dr. Young,
and is given partially in the Medical
Science Building and partially at the Pathological Institute, the chemical work being
done at the former and the microscopic
work at the latter.

The success of this new venture in teh
last few years may be largely credited to
Dr. Young’s ability, and under his supervision greater expansion is assured in
the near future.

Therapeutics, Pharmacology Materia
Medica

Therapeutics—James Robert Corston, B. A., M. D., C. M. (Dal.) Professor of Therapeutics. Graduating from
Dalhousie in 1902, Dr. Corston has been
intimately associated with the university
up to the present time. In his undergraduate days he was one of Dalhousie’s
fcremost athletes; having played — fcur
years on the University Fcotball Team.

One of the earliest teachers in Therapeutics was Dr. Murdock Chisholm. He
was Prefessor cf Therapeutics and Clinical Medicine in the Halifax Medical College in the years 1889-1891.

Dr. Chisholm was succeeded by W. H.
Goodwin, M. D., C. M. Professor of
Materia Medica and Therapeutics. Dr.
Goodwin wasa very conscientious and
studious person and spent a deal of time
on the preparation of his lectures. He
received the degrees of M. R. C. 5,
(England) and L. R. C. P. (Lond.) in
1899.

Following the death of Dr. Goodwin
in 1907, Dr. F. V. Woodbury was appointed Lecturer in Therapeutics and Dr.
K. A. Mackenzie became Professor of
Materia Medica,

In 1911 an agreement was made between the Halifax Medical College and
Dalhousie University whereby all Medical subjects would henceforth be taught
at Dalhousie and there followed a shuffle
of the Medical Faculty, out of which
emerged Dr. D. A. Campbell as Professor of Therapeutics and Hygiene and Dr.
J. R. Corston as Lecturer in the same.

Until about 1914 Therapeutics and Hygiene were taught in the one course, the
lectures in Hygiene being given by Officers of the A. M. C., who held D. P.
H. degrees, including Majors J. L. Potter and H. M. Jacques. On 1914 Hygiene became a separate course under
Dr. W. H. Hattie.

Owing to failing health Dr. Campbell
ceased to lecture in about 1914 but continued as head of the department until
his death in 1918, when he was succeeded
by the present Professor of Therapeutics
—Dr. Corston.

Pharmacology—Owen S. Gibbs, M.
B., Ch. B. (Edin.) Professor of Pharmacology. Since his graduation in 1921
until coming to Dalhousie in 1924 Professor Gibbs was assistant to Professor
Cushny of Edinburgh University. Professor Gibbs has written several articles
on Pharmacology.

Pharmacology as a course “per se,”’ lacks
perhaps the historical background of
many of the other Medical courses.
Back in the days of the Halifax Medical
College Pharmacology was a very young
science and not until comparatively recent years has it been brought into prominence, especially in America. With the
facilities provided in the new Medical
Science Building this course has indeed
come into prominence at Dalhousie.
The course consists of a series of didactic
lectures and a practical class. The
course in Pharmacology is extremely
valuable to the study of Medicine and
Professor Gibbs brings with him the methods of teaching from that great University after which Dalhousie is modelled.

Materia Medica—G. A.
Lecturer in Materia Medica.

Burbidge—

In the early days of Medical education
in the Halifax Medical College, the courses in Therapeutics and Materia Medica
were in all probability taught by the one
professor. In 1908, however, Dr. K. A.
Mackenzie became Professor of Materia
Medica, with Mr. C. E. Putner as Professor Of Practical Materia Medica. A
short time after this finds the department
under A. F. Buckley, M. D., C. M.
(Dal), Pharm. Lic. (Mont.), as Professor
of Materia Medica, with Mr. E. M. Macleod as assistant. 1925 finds the department under Mr. Burbidge, who has made
it a very efficient one, particularly since
it has moved to its new home in the Medical Sciences Building. The quarters
here equal those of any in Canada and
leaves nothing to be desired by way of
equipment.

 

Page Five

Department of
Gynaecology and
and Obstetrics

 

Dalhousie was the pioneer in medical
education for Eastern Canada. From
the founding of the Medical College in
1867 the study of Gynaecology and Obstetrics was undoubtedly a part of the
course, but a somewhat insufficient part,
due to the fact that scientific obstetrics
and gynaecology as a science in itself are
recent developments in the history of
Medicine.

As far as the writer has traced Wm. B.
Slayter, M. D., M. R. C. S. (Eng.) L. R. C.
P. (Lond.); F. O. S. (Dublin), was the
first professor of gynaecology and obstetrics alone. In 1895 he is mentioned
as being Emeritus Professor. At that
time also, M. A. Curry, M. D. (Univ. of
New York) was the regular professor.
He received his practical experience at
Cotunda Hespital (Ireland), and his
capability proved him to be the best lecturer on the staff. Bruce Almon, M. D.
was appointed assistant professor in Obstetrics in 1906. 1916, Charles Morton,
M. D. (Tor.) was appointed Prefessor of
Gynaecology. 1920, P. A. McDonald,
M. D. (McGill) was appointed Lecturer
on Practical Obstetrics. 1922, C. K.
MacLellan, M. D. (Dal.) was appointed
Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Lecturer on Gynaecology. This was the last
appointment of the old school. In 1923,
with the appointment of full timeprofessor
the old order changed and the department
was mcdernized in every sense of the
word,

In reviewing the history of the Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics from
1867-1922 some interesting facts are
brought to light which contrast the old
with the new school. In the early days of
the College, medical students received
received lectures in Obstetrics, but they
depended for their practical work on the
generosity of the doctors, who sometimes
took them on private cases, and those
cases which were in the Alms House. This
practice continued until The Grace Maternity Hospital was opened in 1922. This
Hospital affords at the present time twelve
teaching beds; besides this there are
thirty-eight private beds, with complete
equipment and competent staff in attendance.

In the early days, Gynaecology came
under the heading of general surgery.
The clinics were surgical clinics. All
operations, except a few minor ones, were
performed by the general surgeons. At
the present time, there is an out-patient
gynaecclogical clinic, a full time gynaecologist and a gynaecological ward in the
Victoria General Hospital.

When we glance over the Department
of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, we have in
Dr. H. B. Atlee, the Head of the Department, both as a specialist and an expert.
Dr. Atlee graduated from Dalhousie in
1911. He practiced 1911-1912 and went
to England in 1913. He served his
country in the Great War 1914-18,
and was in England 1918-22. Among
other appointments he was Resident
Surgeon at Queen Charlotte’s In
Hospital and Chelsea Hospital for Women.
He received his F. R. C. S. (Edin.) 1921
and F. R. C. M. (Lond.). In 1923 he
received his appointment at Dalhousie.
Associated with him are Drs. Almon and
MacLellan as Associate Professors of Obstetrics, and four demonstration of Practical Obstetrics with Dr. P. A. MacDonald as Chief of the Clinic. Dr. M. A
Curry is now Emeritus Professor of Clinics
Gynaecology.

Thus we see that this branch of medicine, like the whole Medical College, has
emerged from the pioneer stage into a
fully developed and fully equipped department of Medical Science.

 

 

 

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

 

 

 

PUBLIC HEALTH CLINIC

THE NUCLEUS OF THE MEDICAL SCHOOL

 

FORREST BUILDING

 
  
   
    

was given in a single 1

General Hospital, which served all the
ae cses of a clinical laboratory, a public health laboratory, and a_ university
teaching unit. Realizing the inadequacy
of this eae, the Provincial Government of Nova Scotia erected a small
building on Morris St., within the hos
pital compound, which cost, with its
contents, about $24,000. This was occupied at the beginning of 1914 and was

under the charge of Dr. A. Lindsay, who
was the first professor of pathology in the

 

University. Owing to the lamented death
of Prof. Lindsay in the Empress of Ireland disaster, the department was carried
on by tempo assistance until the ar
porary as:

da i 2 A. is Nicholls ie Pees
er , the present occupant of the Chair
of Pathology. Prof. Nicholls came to
Dalhousie University from McGill, where
he had been Assistant Professor of Pathology and Lecturer in Clinical Medicine
George Adami, now Vice
At this time little more than a course
of didactic lectures, with some slight

practical instruction in pathological his- |

tology and morbid anatomy, could be
given, owing to a lack of teaching material. However, as time went on, conditions improved, until in about five years
a fair teaching museum had been formed.
and a very complete and satisfactory
course had become possible.

At the same time, the value of the pathological laboratory to the medical profession of the province had been increasi recognized, and its facilities were

more freely taken advantage of.
Once the disturbing element of the war
had been eliminated, the work of the
pathological laboratory increased by leaps
and bounds. Again, the inadequacy of
the outfit became evident. The turning
point came with the visit of the medical
Committee of the Rcckefeller Foundation
under Dr. R. M. Pearce. After carefully reviewing the situation, the Foundation agreed to donate $1,000,000 to the
University for medical teaching. One
of the conditions of this gift was that the
Nova Scotia government would, within
the near future, erect a building and equip
it, which would properly take care of the
increased demands of the province in Public
Health and Hospital service, and at the sa
me time would meet the requirements cf a
first-class medical school, The government has carried out this stipulation in a
‘highly satisfactory manner. The new
building was completed for work in June
of the present year. It is, practically,
a four story brick and cement building,
105 feet long by 60 feet wide; plain,
but substantial, and designed on the most
modern lines. In brief, it may be stated,
that the lowest floor is given over to the
clinical requirements of the Victoria General and neighbouring hospitals; the sound
and third floors are taken up with adminstration and teaching work; and the
top floor is devoted to Public Health.
All the necessities of the teaching staff
and students are provided for very fully.
While not the largest, nor the most elaborate of the pathological buildings in Canada, it is exceedingly well-equipped, and,
during the short time it has been in operation, has met every need.

We have been fortunate in having some
very good friends. The small pathological museum has been considerably
strengthened by useful and valuable
gifts of morbid tissues from Sir Charters
Symonds, a consulting surgeon of Guy’s
Hospital, and an old Maritime Province
boy; bones and casts, his private collection, from Prof. Caird of Edinburgh.
We owe these, in great part, to the good
offices of our Dean, Dr. John Stewart.

The head of the department is Prof.
A. G. Nicholls, M. A. M. D. C. M., DSc.,
F. R. Sc., with Dr. D. J. MacKenzie, one
of our own graduates as Assistant Professor. Besides these there is a confident
staff of demonstrators and technicians.
In the past little more than routine work
has been carried on, but it is hoped, with
the increased facilities provided and the
larger staff which is expected, that research work now will be possible. Two
or three excellent rooms have been set
aside for this purpose.

Student—I want to see something
cheap in a felt hat.’

Clerk—‘‘Try this one, the mirror is on
your left.”

(Stanstead College Magazine.)

| its beginning in very CP rLes |
riginally, the instruction} The chief aim of this department is to
e room of the Victoria| acquaint the student with a knowledge

 

 

of the elements of hygiene—and the more
medern development of this subject—preventative medicine.

Hygiene covers a wide field and includes
such topics as quarantine and disinfection
water supplies, airand ventilation, housing
problems, food, and various special aspects of public health work. These are
studied by means of didactic lectures
illustrated by lantern slides and other
demonstrations.

Vital Statistics are dealt with in a series
of lectures. These embody more particularly the compilation and study of morbidity and mortality rates. Dr. A. C.
Jost is the lecturer.

A short course in Military Hygiene is
also provided, the lectures have to do with
the duties of medical officers in the conservation of the health of the troops under
their care. Col. H. A. Chisholm delivers
the lectures.

The Professor and head of the depart
under Prof. J.
_ Chancellor of the University of Liverpool.j tment is Dr. W. H. Hattie who brings to

this chair a wealth of experience. In addition to the lectures given in this department, Dr. Hattie is also the lecturer in
Mental Diseases, and Medical Jurisprudence; acting dean of the Faculty of Medicine; director of the public health and
out-patient clinic recently opened, and
fills other important positions with unquestioned ability and distinction.

The Department of Public Health is
housed in the new Public Health building
which is so highly serviceable and luxuriously appointed. This structure is situated in a strategic position, practically
surrounded by hospitals of various types
and it has been designed to serve each o
these hospitals as an out-patient department. In addition several organizations
concerned with public health as well as a
staff of nurses undertaking with the same
form of service occupy the building.

It is the aim of the authorities to unite
under the same establishment the outpatient clinic (or curative practice) on the
one hand with the department of public
health (or preventative medicine) on the
other.

The subjects of hygiene and public
health are studied during the final years
of the course in medicine. It has not infrequently been suggested by students
and others that the study of these matters
might be undertaken with quite as much
advantage during the Junior years.
The Senior student would then be able to
devote more of his valuable time to the
assimilation cf clinical material which is
after all far more vital to the welfare of
the practicing physician.

Relatively unimportant as these subjects appear to the average student of the
senior years, it is noted in passing, that
such material is of far greater practical
value to a medical practitioner than the
vast amount of highly technical and
theoritical matter which the unwilling
student is forced to attempt tc assimilate
during the first few years of the course.

Large organizations, such as the life
insurance companies, throughout the
United States have undertaken the promulgation and prosecution of the modern
developments in the field of public health.
At the same time it has not yet been
shown, and many admit, that such a
movement is beyond the experimental degree of progress. It also would appear
that such instruction is considerably in advance of the teaching of the more conservative schools of medicine.

As far as the local situation is concerned
what the ultimate result will be only the
future can tell. All loyal Dalhousians
unite in the hope that success will crown
her efforts—in this newly acquired sphere
of service.

MEDICAL STUDENTS.

This is your paper. It has been devoted entirely to your interests and
your activities and the editors have
endeavored to make it a credit to you.
But do you realize that in each issue
of the Gazette which appears you
should be represented, as the second
largest faculty in the University?
Do you realize that you are failing in
one of your most elementary duties
as a student? If the Gazette is barren of interest to you the fault lies
at your feet. Think this over and
then—act.

This is not inserted to fill up space
nor is it here “‘for the principle of the
thing.’ It is published to secure results. Think it over again, your conscience should do the rest.

 

Students, Please

  

ducts of Waterman, Par

full stock of goods for G

 

that we carry a full stock of Pens and Pencils, including the proker and Wahl Pens and Eversharps, and
that we maintain a SERVICE STATION where we give prompt
and accurate service on eens replacements.

on IFT SEEKERS—the choicest products of
the best factories in many lines. BUY HERE FOR CHRISTMAS.

COOLEY BROS.

395 BARRINGTON STREET

  

Take Notice-
       

We also carry a

        
    

Jewelers

    

 

_CCLD et ttt A

;

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Medicine and Clinical

Medicine

_ The great strides that science has made
in recent years, have of necessity a great
bearing on medical teaching, and it is
with gratification to note that the department of Medicine and Clinical Medicine
in Dalhousie University has shared in
the evolution.

The clinical application of laboratory
technique, the modern conception of drugtherapy, the corroborative evidence of the
X-Ray Department, for example, have all
been utilized in an endeavour to train the
professional men of the future, and to
equip them with a knowledge and experience in this field, second to none.

The personel of the teaching staff is
indicative of its efficiency; for it is through
them that years of experience and study
are brought within the reach of each individual student, and made easily accessible to him. The lectures and recitations,
covering a period of several years, is augmented and clarified by clinical instruction.
The practical demonstrations of case-taking, methods of examination of patients,
the use of X-Rays, metabolism, etc., leave
no field of medicine in which the student
does not enjoy the personal interest and
instruction of the teaching staff.

The reciprocal arrangements of the
University authorities, with the hospitals
and public institutions, have solved any
difficulties of clinical material. The Victoria General, Camp Hill, Tuberculosis
and the Childrens’ Hospitals, etc., are at
the disposal of this department, whilst outpatient clinics affords unlimited material
for minor medical diseases.

The didactic course consists in instruction of diseases affecting the individ
 

f| ual systems of the body, such as the

Respiratory, Circulatory, Digestive, Genito-urinary and Nervous lesions; discussed
in sequence, stress being laid on the interdependance of each unit of the human
economy. No opportunity is lost to encourage the student to solve medical
problems for himself or to apply his
knowledge in the practical work.

The department is particularly fortunate in having men of exceptional ability,
whose wide experience in general practice
has qualified them for the various fields
of specialization, on which they can speak
authoritatively; so that the more recent
methods of diagnosis and treatment, accepted by the medical world, does not
pass without the student being well
versed in its procedure.

Professor L. M. Silver, B. A. (Vind.)
M. B., C. M. is a graduate of Edinborough, having taken his degree in 1889.
Since that time he has pursued his practice in Nova Scctia. During the earlier
years of the Medical Cellege, he, as did
many other members $f the profession, devoted much valuable time to the college,
and assumed the responsibilities of teaching that all-important subject—Physiology. Dr. Silver has watched the Medical Faculty shape into its present fcrm,
and now, in the Department of Phvsiology, are men who devote their entire
time to academic and experimental work.

It must be gratifying to him to realize |

that the great advance the Medical College
has made is due largely to him, and to his
fellow practitioners, who provided that
nucleus paramount importance to attain
of enthusiasm and energy which is of
success. Dr. Silver has for years been
visiting physician to the Victoria General
Hospital, and is unexcelled as a clinician.
His lecture course in diseases of the
Nervous System has that touch. of simplicity and clarity that comes cnly from
an intimate knowledge of the subject
coupled with years of teaching experience.

It is with great pride that Dalhousians
point to Professor K. A. MacKenzie, a
graduate of our own College in 1903. Having graduated when the Medical College
was in its infaney, Dr, MacKenzie has been
engaged in active practice ever since, and
is considered one of the ablest practitioners and consultants. A student of exceptional ability, Dr. MacKenzie availed
of every opportunity of post-graduate
work, and student under Sir. James MacKenzie and afterwards was associated
with the great cardiologist, Sir Thomas
Lewis.

During the war, Dr. MacKenzie went
overseas with the Dalhousie Unit as
Captain, and later received his Majority.
He was subsequently connected with No.
7 Stationary and No. 12 General Canadian
Hespitals, but did most of his work in the
Military Heart Hospital, Colchester, an
institution of over seven hundred beds.
It was here that his great knowledge of
heart diseaSes provided such relief to the

 

 

a eerie ee

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers a Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicns,
EDDING Bovguets. e
ale do tin pace native: “
© Only members of the
T. F. D, Florists. € can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world,

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

 

$$ A tt tim

returned men. The clinical instruction
and lectures in disorders of the Circulatory System is directly under Professor
MacKenzie’s jurisdiction. His untiring
efforts for the welfare of his Alma Mater
has won for him a place of high esteem in
the hearts of the students and Faculty.
His recent appointment to the Board of
Governors as the Alumni Representative
is a happy choice, and the College looks
forward with renewed enthusiasm to his
future attainments and successes.

The University is fortunate in having
Dr. T. M. Sieniewicz and Dr. H. G. Grant
associated with clinical instruction and
lectures of diseases of the Respiratory
tract. Dr. Grant, a Dalhousian of 1912,
has devoted much time to post-graduate
studies, especially in England, being
awarded the M. R. C. S. and L. R. C. P.
(Lond.) degrees. Dr. Grant’s decision to
practice elsewhere necessitated severance
of his connection with the Department of
Medicine, which experiences a great loss.
Dr. Sieniewicz was awarded his degree
from Dalhousie in 1917 and has devoted
his time to institutional work. He is
physician of the Halifax Massachusetts
Health Commission and of the Halifax
Tuberculosis Hospital. . His special training and experience at the Kentville Sanitorium makes him a great asset to the
teaching staff, especially to the branch
concerning respiratory disorders.

Instruction . on diseases of the GastroIntestinal tract is given by Dr. S. R.
Johnston, who completed his college
course in 1911. Dr. Johnston has for
years been intimately connected with the
Victoria General Hospital. He is in
charge cf the X-Ray department, and a
specialist in this work. His clinical instruction, demonstrations and _ lectures
has been a large contributing factcr to the
advance the department has made in
recent years.

In 1909, Dr. M. J. Carney, B. A. (Dal.)
qualified at McGill University, and became attached to the Royal Victoria
Hospital in Montreal with Dr. Hamilton
and has done extensive post-graduate
work in the larger clinics of Montreal and
London. Not only is Dr. Carney on the
staff of the Victoria General Hospital, but
is also attending physician to the Childrens’ Hospital. A practitioner of high
standing, Dr. Carney is also recognized
as an authority on Paediatrics. It is
fortunate for the students that in this important subject both the clinical and
didatic teaching is directly under Dr.
Carney’s supervision. His recognized ability is happily at the disposal of the

Clinical department of the Victoria
General Hospital.

Dr. J.L. Churchill, B.A. (Acad.) graduated in Medicine from McGill University in 1896. He has practiced in several
Neva Scotian centres and now enjoys the
reputation of one of the leading practitioners of Halifax city. As others, Dr.
Churchill’s success is the result of the
school of experience. This, accompanied
by his wide knowledge of matters of
Public Health enables him to present
his lectures on Infectious Diseases, emphasizing theessentials and application of
this important branch of Medicine.

It is regrettable that a superficial review
will not permit a more intimate discussion
| of the professional men of this department,
nor an opportunity to mention the many
‘others who have been instrumental in
reaching the high standard the College
has attained, of which the Eastern Prcevinces especially are proud.

To all comes the self-satisfaction and
gratification that their work has not been
in vain, and today Dalhousie Medical
College stands as a monument to their
efforts. With the high standards that

they have set in the professional world |

comes the realization to the recent graduates, and those that are to follow, the
| necessity for renewed application, that
they might join with their predecessors
as true disciples of Hippocrates and
Aesculapius.

At The Castro

In its review of “The Merry Widow,”
the picture scheduled for the Casino the
first three days of next week, the ‘‘New
York Sun” said:

“A captivating picture fraught with
the exquisite beauty of a new Mae Murray and having further the charm of John
Gilbert’s restrained and intelligent, yet
full blooded and robust acting. It is a
masterpiece of direction. It is a picture
with an appeal to the mind; a thing done
with sophistication, poise and intelligence.
The picture is magnificently photographed. It is filled with wittily conceived
closeups, expertly massed panoramas and
action shot with distinction; It is altogether directed with genius and—is excellent entertainment.”

 

 

     
 

A Complete

Musical Service
INSTRUMENTS

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

A Full Line of the Best Classical,
Standard and Popular
SONGS.

| PHINNEYS Limited

 
    

 

 
     

      

 

November 27 1925

Surgery and Surgical
Clinics

 

The Department of Surgery of the
Dalhousie Medical School fully embodies
all that can be conceived under the term
of Surgery. Surgery is an Art which
deals with the manual and apertive treatment of disease—and as such the patient
is the main part of the procedure. It is
the ills and the deformities of the patient
which must be corrected. The highest
aim of Surgery is to leave the patient
benefited by the operative treatment and
never to sacrifice tissue for the fulfillment
of some hazardous proceeding—such latter, so-called Surgery, belongs to the
quack and the charlatan. The Dalhousie
Medical School is conversative. The
student turned out from its doors has a
broad, thorough knowledge of the principles cf Surgery and is imbued with those
sound maxims from his teachers which
will carry him thrcugh his practice in a
manner becoming a Christian surgeon.

There is no full-time professor—but
there are 12 surgeons connected with this
department who represent the pick of the
practicing surgeons of the city of Halifax.
Their teaching activities come under three
groups. The student receives didactic
lectures at the college, examines and
treats patients in the Out Patient Department and receives clinical instructions at the Victoria General and Childrens’ Hospitals.

The didactic lectures are held in the old
Ferrest Building on Carleton Street. Dr.
E. V. Hogan is the head of this department, associated with him are Drs. John
Stewart, John G. MacDougall, Philip
Weatherbee and W. A. Curry. The lectures commence in the third year and
extend over a course of two years and
there are two lecture periods of an hour
each every week. During the first year
the principles of Surgery are taken up
and in the second year instructions are
given in Regional Surgery. In addition
to these lectures there is a course cf
Operative Surgery in the final year of
Medicine conducted under the supervision of Dr. Weatherbee. In this course
the student is required to perform operations on the cadaver under the surveillance of the teacher.

The Out-Patient Department is in the
Public Health Building which is a new,
well-equipped building, opened about a
year ago. There are six visiting surgeons, Drs. Weatherbee, Miller, Burris,
McDonald, Lyons and Acker. In this
phase of surgical instruction the student
is required to write a history of each case,
make a complete physical examination
and diagncsis, and suggest a line cf treat
ment. His work is examined and criticised by the attending doctor. A very
practical follow-up survey is required

from the student. He visits the patient in
the home afterwards in company with the
doctor or nurse and is expected to report
on the termination of the condition. The
out-patient department offers very essential and substantial instruction to the
student and above all it is practical because he meets here those very conditions
which he has to cope with when he goes
out into general practice. It brings to
his notice not only those major surgical
conditions which are treated in Hospital
but in addition, the minor surgical complaints which do not require Hospital
| treatment. The apparent drawback to
this department is the small population
which it has te draw from. Nevertheless
the student sees about eight to ten cases
treated daily.

The clinical instructions are received
at the Victoria General Hospital and the
| Children’s. The head of this department
is Dr. E. V. Hogan and his staff consists
of Drs. H. K. McDonald, J. G. Mac| Dougall, G. H. Murphy, W. A. Curry
|and W. L. Muir. There are four sur| gical clinics each week at the Victoria
|General Hospital and one at the Child|rens—the latter clinic is conducted by
| Dr. P. Weatherbe. i

The Clinician presents his patient and
the case is thoroughly gone into and the
students have an open discussion. In this
way the student learns to have confidence
in himself and so prepares the way for the
coming years when he must rely more
fully on himself. The wholé class is ar|ranged in groups and the groups are
| alloted te one of the attending surgeons or
“chiefs.” These groups are changed four
times during the year that the student may
receive instructions in Medicine, Gynaecology and the Skin, Eye, Ear, Nose and
Throat Diseases. as well The patients

 

 

| of the Hospital.

coming into the Hospital are assigned to
one of the “‘chiefs’”” and the House Doctor
in turn gives each member of his “‘chief’s”’
group, a patient. The student must
write the history of the case, make a complete physical examination and profer a
diagnosis. He is required to follow the
case from day to day while in Hospital.
Should the case be an operative one, he
assists at the operation as second assistant. The other members of the particular group are also present at the operation,

Each morning the

“chief”? is accom
| panied on his “rounds” by the members
| of his group.

In this way the student receives individual attention and can find
a solution to the problems which are bothering him. In addition he receives in
| structions in the giving of anaesthetics—

the apphcation of splints and bandages—
and learns aseptic technique in the wards
At the Childrens’ Hos
(Continued on page 7 column /.)

 
   

 

 

(Continued from page 6.)

  
 

the student receives clinical in
i, : ital
oe Beccticn on the congenital deformities

ne the surgical conditions as seen in

e Medical Buildings and the associated
ospitals of Dalhousie University—the
Most outstanding feature is the compactof the whole scheme. There is
hardly another Canadian or American
University where the same state of affairs
exists. The student has but a few steps
between the different buildings, because
they are all contained within an area of
about 15 acres.

In concluding this article we cannot
refrain from mentioning the splendid feeling of co-operation and good will which
exists between the University authorities
and the Boards cf Governors of the associated Hespitals. Pause must also be
made to pay tribute to the zeal and ability
of the doctors who are instructing in the
Medical School. Dalhousie is but a
Maritime University and cannot employ
the services of a full-time surgical professor. She draws her instructcrs from
the practicing doctors of the city. These
doctors have given up considerable portions of their valuable time for the teaching of medicine and their services are
unrequited financially. As an everlasting
monument to their generosity and scholarship stands the Medical School of Dalhousie University which ranks to-day
among the foremost cf her kind on the
American continent.

wpe ie one considers the disposition of

 

THE DOCTOR.
Oliver Wendall Holmes.

Simple in youth, but not austere in age;

Calm, but not cold, and cheerful though

“ a sage;

Too true to flatter, and too kind to sneer,

And only just when seemingly severe;

So gently blending courtesy and art,

That wisdom’s lips seemed borrowing
friendship’s heart. .

Taught by the sorrows that his age had
known

In others trials to forget his own,

As hour by hour his lengthened day declined

The sweeter radiance lingered o’er his

_mind, |
Cold were his the lips that spoke his
; early praise,
And hushed the voices of his morning
=< days,
Yet the same accents dwelt on every

tongue,
And love renewing kept him ever young.

Sy stheidsie Medical Post

| Graduate Course

 

 

_ Four years ago the Medical Faculty
of Dalhousie University initiated a post
graduate course. The thought behind
the movement was that a trading centre
like Halifax with adequate facilities for
medical education should do something
to help the busy general practitioner
brush up a-bit from time to time, in order
to keep in the forefront of his work. Also, to enable the University to give practical evidence of its desire not only to
keep in intimate touch with its former
graduates in medicine but with the whole
profession of these Maritime Provinces.

._ The course during the last two years
occupied ten days and consisted of practical demonstraticns, clinics, operations
and lectures, all covering matters thought
to be of most help to the man in actual
‘practice.
__ The plan has been followed of securing
the services of a certain number of specJalists of high standing form the larger
centres of Medical Education. These
a with the university’s own staff, have
able to render a very useful course;
so that the attendance has been increasing
each year. The course is free to all registered physicians.
The course will likely be continued
from year to year, so long as the doctors
whom it was instituted, show by their
a that they consider it worth
while .

 

You know the rest of this

ALPHA BETA alphabet, but won't you

ister the patie frees a Music Dealer's Text Book.

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
-Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

eee THING IN SHEET MUSIC

ewe

4 
 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

tas Pome gre

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
| FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

“McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

Said

’
=

 

_—_—_——— EC wl_O _SOeee eae
A he
LL A

 

RG Y
mabe. Eoeieane: Embryo of Dalhousie

Medical College

By Dr. F. MacMillan, a number of
our first graduating class.

 

My connection with Dalhousie Medical College began November first 1868,
when 1 took the general course in Arts.
At the end of the Arts course 1 entered
the Medical College. Dr. A. P. Reid was
registrar and was supposed to be the
principal promcter of the school. He was
of a somewhat nervous, disposition, but
an enthusiast in promoting the new institution. When it started there was no
legal means of securing dissecting material. Material had to be provided at great
risk surreptiously. In the next year a
bill was passed by our legislature under
Premier Wilkins for the purpose of supplying the necessary material. Our dissecting room was the attic of the old Dalhousie building usually conducted by
night by means of gas light. The professors were young busy men, but enthusiastic in building up of a new institution. Dr. Edward Farrell was the
first Professor of anatomy, but was soon
advanced to the surgical post. He was a
general favourite. Dr. Woodill, a young
and rising man took up medicine but his
mental capacity was greater than his
physical—he left early for sunny Cahfornia for his health. He was highly revered by the students. Dr. Somers took
Physiology—he was thorough and painstaking a quiet, genial man. Dr. Gcrdon
tock the post of materia medica. He was
somewhat quick and nervous—a graduate of Glasgow University, Scotland.
Dr. Slater was a fine specimen of a man;
ruddy, genial, quiet disposition, and the
friend of the students. Among our early
students was afterwards Dr. D. A. Campbell—a very studious man, clear conception—and always a student through
life. The career of the Medical College
of that day forms a part of Nova Scotian
history.

Dr.

 

—Robinson Cox, M.D.

With cne exception I m the oldest
living medical graduate of Dalhousie
Medical College. In my student days
it was known as the Halifax Medical College in ffiliating with Dalhousie College.
When | entered the college in the Autumn
of 1871 it was the day of small things as
a medical institution, but owing largely
to the genercsity and public spirit of some
of the leading physicians and surgeons of
Halifax who gave their time and ability
gratuitously it has become one of the
foremost medical colleges in America.

The session of 1871 and 2 was attended
by fourteen students from various parts
of the Maritime Provinces, The college
course extended over four years. There
were two examinations during each session, a primary ex m at the end of the
third year and a final at the end of the
fourth year.

The Medical Faculty at this time was
composed of the following:

The very Rev. J mes Ross, D. D.,
Principal; Dr. A. P. Reid, Professor Practice of Medicine; Dr. W. B. Slayter Professor Obstetrics and Gynecology; Dr.
E. Farrell, Professor Surgery; Dr. Jas.
R. DeWolf, Professor Mental Diseases;
Dr. H. A. ‘Gordon, Professor Anatomy;
Dr. W. H. Wodill, Professor Materia MediDr. Geo. Lanson,

 

ca and Therapeutic;
Professor Chemistry.

In 1873 Dr. Archibald Lanson was appointed associate professor of Surgery
and Dr. George L. Sinclair became professor of Anatomy succeeding Dr. Gordon who bec me assistant professor of
Medicine with Dr. Reid. To the faithful and self-sactificing labors of these men
we owe the present Dalhousie Medical
College.

The College was first opened in 1867.
Among the first graduates were Doctors
DeWolf, DeWitt, MacRae and Sutherlands. Dr. F. McMillan still living at
Sheet Harbor received his degree in 1872.
In the absence of any early calendar of
the college and trusting to my memory, l
think the next graduation was in 1875
when the following received the degree of
M. D. C. M. viz

A. W. H. Lindsay of Halifax, John L.
Bethune of Baddeck, W. T. Bruce cf
Musquodoboit, and Robinson Cox of Upper Stewiacke. Doctors Lindsay and

F. MacMillan
Sheet Harbor, N. S
From an early Graduate

Men’s GLOVES

of the better quality, “Dent's,”
“Perrin’s,” “Acme” and other
standard makes. Leathers

which are SERVICEABLE,

Goop Firtinc, StytisH.

$1.50 to $6.50

KELLYS

LIMITED
GRANVILLE STREET

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Clothes Seen at the Colleges

SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 

 

 

Bethune died several years ago. Dr.
Bruce took his course in Divinity along
with Medicine and after graduating entered the ministry of the Presbyterian
Church, and is now living at *Bible Hill,
Truro, on the list of aged and infirm ministers. On the 24th May 1875, 1 opened
an office at Upper Stewiacke where I am
still located, practising occasionally as
circumstances will permit. I believe my
case is unique. Several other men have
practised over 50 years, but not continuously in the s me place.

“Tell me my Soul,
can this be Death?”

 

The too often unrecorded heroism of
the medical service on the battlefield has,
frequently, its equally heroic counterpart in the cool hazard of death, played
and lost in scientific laboratories in times
of peace. The dice fall, Fate wins, the
man dies, but out of the record of courageous death may be won, too, a furthered record of medical! knc wledge. To the
roll of such gallant gentlemen belongs the
name of Daniel Carrion.

During the building of the Peruvian
Central Railway, croya fever, a disease
endemic along the western Andes, became a deadly sccurge among the workmen and engineers. At least one tenth
of the 2,000 workmen building the bridges
and tunnels perished and on the section
of the railway between Lima and Orova
alone over seven thousand died. The
disease was at that time hopelessly
confused with malaria, para-typhoid and
especially verruga peruviana, a local fever
with a much lower record of mortality,
and it was therefore imperative that the
inter-relationships, if any, of these conditions be immediatley ascertained. To
establish this point Daniel Carrion, a
Peruvian medical student, deliberately
innoculated himself with blood from a
verruga nodule. A severe fever developed
and five weeks later Carrion died. It is
an ironic stroke of fate that the clinical
notes on Carrion’s case were lost and that
his noble sacrifice was in a measure fruitless for the elucidation of the diseases
remained unaccomplished until later.
In his honor the feyer was named ‘“Carrion’s fever.”’ His youthful yet supreme
self-abnegation stands as a true touchstone of the ideals and service of scientific medicine.

Believing that the announcement
of the Dalhousie Medical College,
having been rated as class ‘‘A’’ was
worthy of special attention, your
staff decided to issuea Medical Number, enlarged to eight pages.

So short was the time in which to
prepare the articles ang communicate
with some of the original Dalhousie
garduates—and on account of the
greater amount of mechanical work at
the Printers—we are very late in
publishing this week’s Gazette.

We trust, though you will be compensated for the delay by the additional and interesting matter.

 

 

Leading Leading Halide hestres | Theatres

Direction J. F. O'Connell

MAJ MAJESTIC

Next Week

So DUMBE LLS |
“Lucky _
|

 

 

STRAND

The he Boa

Musical Comedy
and Vaudeville

 

 

 

 

 

Page Seven

SPORT - - 
 

Arts Defeat Medicine
6—3 To Win
Championship

 

A try by Miller with only two minutes
of the second overtime period remaining
broke a 3-3 tie and enabled Arts to defeat
Medicine in their-championship clash at
Studly last Thursday morning. The game
was played on a muddy field but despite
this fact the few spectators enjoyed an interesting contest.

Medicine kicked off and immediately
began to force the play. The forwards by
quick follcwing up nailed the ball in Arts
territory where it stayed for the greater
part of the period. The first score came
when Wood plunged through for twenty
yards and then passed to Giddings who
immediately incurred the displeasure of
the Arts team by crossing the line. After
the kick off the Meds. again pressed but
short runs by Miller and Brown and opportune punts by Fraser held them at bay.
By this time enthusiasm had reached
fever heat and several promising encounters were spoiled by Referee Harold Baird.

At the beginning of the second period
Arts came back strong and immediately
began a march towards a score. The
Med. forwards were tiring fast and their
backfield showed lack of judgment in
attempting to carry the ball instead of
punting. This proved disastrous for the
halves and quarters were frequently
thrown for serious losses when they might
have gained many yards by kicking. Miller and Brown made consistent gains and
the former finally succeeded in wriggling
over the Med. line after picking up a loose
ball. Play was even for the rest of the
period and at full time the score was
still 38-3. In the overtime periods Arts
were superior and with only two minutes
left to go the ball came out to Lee Miller
who sped twenty-five yards to elude the
Med. tacklers and score the winning try.
For Arts, Miller, Brown and M. Fraser
were good while Dan Wood played a

steady game for Medicine, rushing and
kicking effectively. The Medical forward
line excelled, being heavier and more experienced than their fiery opponents. Harold Baird assisted by Managers Doull and
Harrington and most of the spectators and
players—handled the game in an impartial
manner, while linesman Charlie Sullivan
intimidated by the two Arts rooters, added yards to the Studley men’s ; kicking.

Hockey Enthusiasts
Turnout

 

On Monday night Manager MacManus gave the Hockey team its first
work out, and from all appearances we
will have at least a willing team this year
if not a winning one. In all, about sixteen men went through their paces.
Only a few first team men were in togs
however and it was more in the nature
of a starter than a full fledged workout.

Harrington and Grant
star in Soccer match

 

Though probably unknown to most
students the Soccer game between the
Wanderers and the R. C. R. last Saturday held quite a bit of interest for Dalhousians. For the two outstanding players on the Wanderers line up were Jack
Harrington and Grant. The last named
in particular gave one of the finest exhibitions of Soccer seen for a long time, being on the ball from start to finish. Playing a wirlwind game he kept up a dizzy
pace al] through the game, and although
the lightest man on the field carried the
ball time after time down the field only to
have his team mates fumble it in the
mouth of the goal.

 

The Review Critic

A Rare Document of Medical Interest.

 

It is rarely that one is privileged to see a
document that recalls the things that have
passed, and brings early romance and
struggle—with its compensations—to light.
Such a document is the Provincial Medical
Journal for Nova Scotia, Volume One,
Number One, dated May 1868, which
vividly portrays in its brief compass of
twenty pages, the things that were.
twenty pages, the things that were.

Dalhousie’s Faculty of Medicine was
just at its beginning in those days, and we
see on the fly leaf of the little pamphlet,
an advertisement for the School, along
with a statement of fees. A dissecting
ticket cost four dollars, and the lecture
fees were six dollars for each course. Truly
times have changed. The Journal carries
an editorial about the newly established
Medical College. “It appears that the
Faculty are not so much actuated by the
desire of conferring degrees as of giving the
students an opportunity of acquiring a
knowledge of the primary branches of the
profession at home.’’ The School seems te
have started off on right sound foundations. The first session had just opened,
we are told, with a class of thirteen students. It might have been called lucky
thirteen for Dalhousie, since it marked an
era in the Medical History of the Maritime Provinces.

 

A summary is given, on these old,
stained pages, of a famous Medico legal
case in Montreal, which was attracting
much attention. An interesting light is
thrown on an unscrupulous practice perpetrated by a physician there. There is an
enlightning account, too, of the surprising
extent of the quack treatment of consumptive patients by an invalid doctor, who
journed to New York in search of relief.
He describes accurately, the various
schools of quacks, each with a sovereign
remedy for the white plague, who “cured”
him in various ways. After giving each a
fair tryout he set out again for his home
“feeling like a doomed man.”’ He adds
pitifully, “The consumption cures have
taken from me all my bright hope, and
left me but a mockery.’ Perhaps herein

From The

WINNERS From 1

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods

HALIFAX N. 3.

 

lies the greatest message of this ancient
tattered sheet. The feature of modern
medicine for which we should be most
thankful is its steady approach towards
the ultimate achievement of abolishing
yuacks and their profession—the making
of the world safe for the layman.

 

SUNSET

The glaring afternoon is near its end;

A ruddy light fills all the western sky;

Slow gliding home, a lone hawk soaring
high.

Is outlined 'gainst a cloud.
bend

Their lengthening arms abroad to meet
and blend

With those of fast approaching night.
The sigh

Of gentle zephyrs is a lullaby

To soothe the dying day and peace to
send.

Behind the pines the red sun sinks from
sight;

The lengthening shadows slowly
pear. j

The radiant beauty of the sunset wanes

And, like a maiden’s blush dispelled by

fear,

The warmth

the night,

Fade from the darkening sky and silence
reigns.

The shadows

disap
and color frightened by

“Oui.”’

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

—=ALSO—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

 

 

Choose Someone’s
Gift Today.

Christmas shopping may be either a

laborious task in the last hectic
Christmas days—or a restful treasure
hunt among the odd, the smart, new

things that come early to Birks for the

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
HALIFAX

 

 

 
Page Eight DALHOUSIE GAZETTE November 27 1925

 

 

 

ee Dalhousie University «=

oie. ARTS | SCIENCE
COMMERCE MUSIC
ENGINEERING PHARMACY
LAW MEDICINE
| _ DENTISTRY

Courses leading to degrees of Bachelor and Master in Arts and in Science, of Bachelor and Licentiate of Music, of Bachelor of Commerce, and of Bachelor of Pharm
Faculty of Arts and Science

acy.

Offers courses in ENGINEERING preparing for entrance to Nova Scotia Technical

College, or third year of other engineering institutions.

In affiliation with Halifax Conservatory of Music and Maritime College of Pharm acy.
Offers for competition at Matriculation examinations in September, nine scholar
ships of value $200.00 to $85.00, and, at the end of the first year, seven scholarships
of value $255.00 to $100.00.

Faculty of Law

|
|
:
The course leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) extends over five years,

ing of first year Arts. The School occupies ample laboratories in the Forrest
Building and Medical Sciences Building on the Carleton Street Campus.

two in Arts and three in Law proper.
Faculty of Medicine
Faculty of Dentistry

The course given in the Dental School of the University for the degree of D. D. S.

The Medical Course requires six years for its completion, subsequent to the standextends over five years.

University Hall, the residence for men, on banks’ of North West Arm, is temporarily the home of King’s College.

Shirreff Hall, the beautiful new residence, has ample accommodation for all the women students.

 

 

RESIDENCES
|

FOR FULL INFORMATION APPLY IN PERSON OR BY LETTER TO THE REGISTRAR

HALIFAX, - - - NOVA SCOTIA

 
