g§ :
i
me
rs
st
t f _ ‘

: x

; =

A =. a
i
xh

   

hae
oe
q i
i oe
‘i
i :,
f
4 “a '
a
“printab:
f
i
q
’
i
uf
fa

     

“ me o
“fr
‘

5 ‘*
a.

f ter ed.

oe
ae

SWEAT A/09 4's. nV)
age oe?

 

‘

 

VOL. LXVIII NO. 19

oo
—

—
a
ee
—
—
a
es

|

St. Bernard's Debators

DECISION

WAS WON BY VERY CLOSE MARGIN.

The Morning Chronicle.

ANTIGONISH, March 23. In argving the negative of the question: ‘'Resolved, that an Imperial Council, with
Dominion representation, be established,
to have full control of Great Britain’s foreign policy,’’ Mt. St. Bernard’s debaters
defeated the Dalhousie girls’ team here
to-night, by a close margin of points. Owing to an error ia reckoning the points, it
was at first announced that the visitors
had triumphed, but the mistake wag discovered before all the audience haa left
the hall, and a conference, including the
judges and the members of both teams
decided that the local collegians had won.

The judges were Rev. G. S. Weaver,
Antigonish; A. W. Woodill, Sydney; A.
H. MacGregor, New Glasgow. Miss
Mary Chisholm, B. A., Antigonish, was
chairman.

The personnel of the teams was: Dalhousie—Miss Alice Atherton, Sussex, N.
B., leader; Miss Evellen Burns, Halifax;
Miss Avis Marshall, Halifax; Mount St.
Bernard’s— Miss Frances Fitzgerald,Sydney, leader; Miss Carmel Lozier, Chatham, N. B., Miss Mabel Nowlan, Sydney.

Miss Atherton, for the affirmative, contended that a common foreign policy was
necessary for the continued existence of
the British Empire. If affairs should go
oa as they are at present, she argued that
the component parts of the Empire would
drift apart, and eventua!ly become independent. In support of her view, she

uoted Joseph Chamberlain, the late
ol. George 1. Dennisoa, of Toronto, and
others. The difficulties in creating an
Imperial Council, she averred, would not
be as great as those that confronted the
League of Nations.

Destiny is
Interwoven

 

F. Winfield

“But a story is how Destiny is interwoven, the line and gallant, and the
tragic points of life. And you mustn’t
lock at them with the eyes of the bedy,
but you must feel with the antennae
of your being.”

DONN BYRNE IN ‘MESSER
MARCO POLO.”

There was great conternation in Castle
O’Dair. The young Lord Jchn had
fallen in love with a seamstress! Of
course she was not an ordinary seamstress. Jord John could have told you
that, if you were too dull to see it for
yourself. He would have told you that,
when he stepped into an upper reom of
the castle and saw her sitting there in
an irredescent cloud of silks and satins,
a sunbeam laughing in her golden hair
and dancing on her silver needle, he
thought she must be a fairy, She was
small enough goodness knows!

Lord John’s mother was not at first
seriously perturbed. It was a little
awkward, of course, that he should have
conceived such a sudden infatuation fora
seamstress, (the Lady O’Dair did not
share her sons partiality for needles!)
but still, it it would blow over in time.
Such things always did. Lady O’Dair

. had managed her husband successfully

during his lifetime, and she anticipated
no difficulty with his son. But she
forgot one thing—Lord John was also
her son. The affair did not blow over.
As months passed things went from bad
to worse. At first she was annoyed,
then she became sad. After all, Kathleen was a sweet little thing. She cculd
hardly blame John—and yet, he simply
could nct marry her, and that was that.
If he would only see things in the proper
light, or else get over it. But John did
neither. He Ilceved Kathleen and was
determined to marry her.

When she found that she could not!
stop the marriage, Lady O’Dair sent for!
her son and gracefully acknowledged
defeat.

“If yeu really must have Kathleen
for your wife, John, I shall say no more.
I am quite prepared to accept her as my
daughter. But she must be educated,
you know. Two or three years abroad
will do wonders for her.”

John gasped. ‘Three years! Three
years without Kathleen? It's impossible
mother!” What did Kathleen need education for, he thought. He loved her
just as she was and as he was going to
marry her, his opinion was all that mat“You don’t know her as I do.”
he broke out. ‘‘And just because she
sewed for her living doesn’t mean—"’

i»

Miss Fitzgerald, the first negative
speaker, declared the proposal to create
an Imperial Council as utterly impracticable. If representation were to be on an
absolute equality, she contended that
Great Britain would have no more to say
in foreign affairs than Would Newfoundland, while if representation should be

ut on a basis of populatioa, India would
ar outweigh any other part of the Empire. Great Britain would never consent
to forego her own authority in foreign
affairs, she declared, and cited the werds
of Asquith, replying to Borden, in 1912.
The scheme, she said, was inconsistent
with Canadian national aspirations.
Lord Roseberry, one time president of the
Imperia! Federation League, was quoted
by Miss Fitzgerald, to the effect that
Imperia! Federation was an impossible
dream.

Miss Burns, in upholding the affirmative, declared that the council would
strengthen the konds of Imperial unity,
and said that had Germany known, in
1914, that the Dominions would rally so
promptly to the assistance of the Empire,
there would have been no war. She
quoted the proposal of Sir Wilfrid Laurier, in the words: “If you want our
support, call us to your councils,”’ as
evidence that the scheme was considered
by that great statesman, and cited the action of Lloyd George, in framing aa Imperial War Cabinet as an example of the
tendency to put the idea into practical
effect.

Miss Lozier submitted the view that
foreign policies are largely the outcome
of commercial and economic conditions

(Continued on page 4, col. 2).

Two Nights

Last night was dark, the stars were dim
on high;

No moonbeam pale lit up the wintry sky;

Nay, more, the heavens, dull with clouds
that sped

Across its surface, swirling as they led

Sprites of the blizzard to the mountain’s
height,

Presaged the dangers to the way that
night.

All day the chilly northern wind had
borne

The snow, and driving it with lashing
scorn,

Piled it, tight-packed, on field and
road and wall,

Until dark night descending, through the
squall,

The traveller could see no path ahead,

No guardian to his steps, no beacon red

To ue his plodding way; the dreary
sight

Of endless wind-blown snow his only
light.

But ah, tonight what peace is in the air!

The very trees seem kind, no longer bare,

Their branches stretch in freeziag solitude

Against the sky; the wind no longer rude,

As when it tore the snow from every
bough,

Allows a blanket white to rest there now.

Tranquil and quiet as the trees asleep
The stars atwinkling 'twixt the branches
., Peep;

Like watch-towers set by Heav’n to
guard the land,

And point the way from danger, grave
they stand

Giving their welcome light to aid the
moon,

Shedding o’er earth a light more fair than
noon;

baie Northern Lights with opalescent
glow

Make fairyland of trees and ivory snow.

MARGARET ELLS '29.

 

Lady O’Dair hastily interrupted ‘‘I
know, dzar—’’ She sighed wearily.
Sons were so hard to manage. ‘Don't
you see, dear, that it is Kathleen I am
thinking of? If she is to be your wife,
you must spare her the humiliation
that she would be bound to suffer without some preparation for her new life.
You mustn’t be selfish, J hn,.”’

John theught it over. He was sure
that there was a flaw somewhere in his
mother’s reasoning, but he was not
clever enough to find it. Also, she had
taken advantage of the fact that his was
a gen:rous nature. He would have died
rather than be thought selfish where
Kathleen was concerned. So, once conv:nced that an educaticn was necessary

(Continued on page 4, col. 8),

 

THE COLLEGE BY THE SEA.

With apologies to Oliver Goldsmith.

Dalhousie, statliest college by
the mere,
Where gloom prevails, exams.
have vanguished cheer,
Where frowning spring too soon
its visit’s paid,

And student pore o’er studies
long delayed.

Unhappy bowers of indolence
and ease,

Seats of my youth where I
aimed but to please,

How often have I strayed across
the court

And in the library made merry
sport

How often have I loitered down
below

To deal out one more hand before I’d go.

How often have I not appeared
at all

But wandered far away at pleasure’s call.

These were thy charms—but
all these charms are fled.

Exams. are nigh and worry
reigns instead.

 

| ee er

**CLEOPATRA’”’ WINS SHIELD
COMPETITION.

Gordon Graham elected President.

Wednesday evening, after the Glee
Club performance it was announced that
the Shield Competition had been conducted, the shows considered being
“Bimbo the Pirate,’ ‘““Honi Soit’’ and
“Cleopatra.”’ The decision of the judges
was that “‘Cleopatra’’ was the winner.

The annual meeting was held Wednesay night and the following officers elected:—
Prestdent—Gordon M. Graham.
V.ce-Pres.dent—-Miss Jean Shaw.
Secy.-Treasurer—Reg. Baxter.
Technsctans—Harry Bell, Jack Atwood.

Co-eds Win Title

Dalhousie co-eds intermediate basket
shooters won the City League title by virtue of their 49-13 victory over the Y. W.
C. A. last night at the Y. M. C. A, gym.
The game did not produce high class basket ball and was very slow in spots.
Dalhousie had a big margin all the way
and were never in oanger so they only
showed flashes of form. ‘‘Marty’’ Campbell did the scoring for the Gold and
Black and packec away 44 points for herself. The “‘Y” were very weak on shooting and missed many chances for tallies
but the points they did get were on exceptionally long shots and well deserved.
Miss Boole starred for the ‘‘Y’’ but was
weol supported by the rest of the team.

The cup emblamatic of the City league
championship was presented to the captain of the team after the game.

The line up:—Y—Misses Keating,
Hayes f. 3, Stech, Swartz, Booles f. 10,
Matteson. Dal.—Marion Campbell 44,
Marj. Thompson 3, Allin McCurdy,
Betty Freeman, Bertha MacPhail, Alice
Atherton 2, Gert. Phinney.


 

Dreams at Night

At night my fleet cf dreams sets sail

From the shores of Reality.

And I launch each ship with a murmured
prayer

That it will come back to me.

 

The mem'ry dreams are the first to go,
Fragile, but oh so swift

And I breathe a sigh as I set my ships
With lavender sails adrift.

The next ship hoists a scarlet sail

That glows like a driftwood flame.

And | bid faréwe!l with a quickened heart
To the ship whose name is ‘‘Fame.”

Then [ launch a gleaming, golden barque;
A shining, splendid thing,

That sails away with an arrogant air,
Like an eagle on the wing.

But the dearest and last is a white, white
ship,

A little ship, and fleet,

To carry my heart away to you

And leave it at your feet.

Lavender, scarlet and gold, and white
Sailing the purple deep—

{ watch them silently disappear
Across the Seas of Sleep.

 

|

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 25th 1926

Dal. Glee and Dramatic Club

It might well have been expected that
the Glee Club would present for its final
entertainment of the CoHege Year, a
show worthy to be a climax to such a
brilliantly successful season. Yet ‘‘Cleopatra’, on Wednesday night, undoubtedly exceeded all expectations; and the
Male Chorus, which had been delighting
their audiences at a number of previous
shows, proved that they could act with
the same remarkable ability with which
they sing. Costumes, acting, lighting,
were all of a high standard and every
number ‘‘went over’ with great pep and
skill, It was most unfortunate (and all
the more so because it was unavoidable),
that a great number were carrying on
under the serious handicap of a bad cold—
in fact, three were just out of bed and two
more unable to be present. This of
course was a tremendous Cisadvantage,
yet one scarcely noticed it.

To Lee Chisholm, as the Director of
the Chorus, must be given the credit for
getting the cast into shape when work
was first begun. But much of the evening’s success was dve to the invaluabi eaid
and tireless coaching of Mrs. G. F. Pearson, who consented to be director since
Mr. Chisholm had an important role to
play. It was she who put the innumerable finishing touches to the production
which maae it the triumph it was. To
Mrs. Pearson then, the sincere thanks of
all Dalhousians are once more due and
between the acts she was fittingly presented with flowers as a token of the
Clubs’ appreciation. Thanks ‘are also
due to the members of the orchestra
which she organized.

The plot was unusual, interesting and
well developed. The music, partly original and partly adapted from various
famous operas by the composer John W.
Brigham, was tuneful, varied and often
of real beauty. Mr. Brigham calls
‘Cleopatra’ an opera-burlesque on college life for male voices. Thus the role
of Cleopatra is intended to be taken by a
man and as such, offers a splendid opportunity for one skilled in female impersonation. Mr. Frank MaeDonald’s interpretation of this, the leading part, was
little short of amazing. His acting was

 

Au Revoir

TO MY COMRADES OF CLASS ’26.
(With best wishes for their future, and
with apologies for the poorness of the
verse).

Many a dawn the lazy sun will raise his
golden head,
Many a night the stars will peep from
out their skyey bed,
Every morn the meadows will be shining
wet with dew,

Every eve soft sleep will come and hush
the world anew;

And many a morn and eventide I'll send
a thought to you.

Year by year at May-time will the fields
be daffodilled,

Little birds so busily
nests will build, ,

Fragrant, comely blossoms will unfold,
and blush, and pale,

Then by Apple-time the leaves will be
but few and frail;

But though the seasons change, be sure
my love will never fail.

>
their wee round

Surely we'll be happy as the days of life
go past,

Yet again, a grey storm-cloud our sky
may Over-cast,

One day luck will befriend us and the
next will pass us by,

To-day may bring us laughter and tomor
row bring a sigh;

But, joy or sorrow—we'll be true and

loyal, you and I.

The honey-hunters laden from the clover
fields will come, —
And weary, gipsy-butterflies at dusk go
winging home,
Sleepy little birdies to their darkling
nests will flee,
And, when our work is over, in God's
home we all shall be;

Dears, if I don’t forget you there, will
you remember me?
M. A. B.

 

THE YEAR BOOK—Owiag to an
error of the proof reader a part of the
article on the Students’ Council meeting
was omitted from last week's Gazette.
In this it was stated that the Year Book
project was unanimously turned down
by the Council elect.

Chalmers Wickwire: ‘‘The fact is,
I’m particularly busy, I’ve a rehearsal.’

  
  

   

iden
Bttre..

1 TULANE

     

Five Cents The Copy

natural, entirely spontaneous and _ perfectly feminine; while his costume was
the last word in completeness. Among
his solos, “I am frightened,”’ was out
standing. Lee Chisholm, as Pompey had
an important part which he did with
great skill. His duet ‘I love you,’’ with

Cleopatra was unusually fine—really one
of the hits of the show, Chalmers Wickwire as Antony had an effectivé solo,
‘Cleopatra Mine,’’ which suited his fine
voice well. His acting was as natural
and characteristic as in ‘‘Press Cuttings.”’
Gordon Bowles took the part of Caesar
and had two tuneful solos ;
and “Alone with you”, which stamped
him as a finished actor and the possessor
of a fine voice. Mr. Gordon Graham—
who is to be congratuated on his election
to the Presidency of the Glee Club—had
an exciting part in the dual role of Willam
and the ghost. In the former, he was an
ardent lover of Cleopatra and in the latter
gave a very skilful and realistic performance of ghostly tactics. His
“Have you forgotten—”’ was one of the
finest musical bits of the show. Among
the other outstanding numbers of ‘the
principals were the duet ‘‘Alone in my
Arms” done by William and Cleopatra
(this was one of the biggest hits of all)
and the mirth-provoking trio “I shall
die,” sung by the three disheartened
lovers, Pompey, Caesar and Antony.
The choral numbers were all very lively
and rhythmically interesting—“Trip Little
Ghostie,” being exceptionally effective.
Others, no less interesting were the
chorus “Hail to the Co-eds,”’ ‘“The
Miserere”’ (in which the part-singing was
quite masterly) and the two final chorues,

In conclusion, it may be said that it
would have been very difficult to find a
weak spot anywhere. ‘‘Cleopatra’’ was
a distinct novelty and an entirely successul one—the participants having been
awarded the shield by the judges in
charge. The remainder of the evening
was spent in dancing and during its course
the officers for 1926-27 were elected.

“T am ‘Caesar’

solo

Wheels of Time

Night had fallen at last but it gave no
relief to those who remained on the
stricken Field of Flodden. Everywhere
lay the dead and dying. A mournful
wind howled and groaned, carryiag on
its bleak bosom showers of cold, misty
rain. The sounds of strife had ceased
and save a howl from a hound who had
discovered his forever silent master and
the noise of the elements, peace had again
fallen upon the land. Here and there
shone a gleam of hazy light like a Will-o’the-Wisp flitting about, borne in the
hand of a searcher for the loved one who
would never more breathe the fresh air
of Scotland’s hills or the sunny breeze
of France. But there were others
abroad that sad night, ghouls in human
shape who came to rob the stricken and
the dead. Near a tiny hillock lay an
officer, his rich clothing’ stained with
fith, and blood from many wounds.
Life still persisted, however, and from
time to time he rolled about and groaned
in a semi-conscious state. Thus he was
found by the robbers. was

A lantera
flashed in his face and he opened his
eyes. All he saw was a hideous face
peering into his’ own, across which,
gleaming like silver in the dim light was
a huge sabre scar. An appealing look
and an effort tospeak were stopped by a
kick from the one of the scar who, wrenching a ring from his victim's hand, and
rifling his pockets, rushed after his com
panions to renew the search for prey.
* * *” OK * * a *“

Many years have passed by and ‘‘La
Bonne Marie” from Havre, blown out
of her course to Quebec by a violent
storm, is sailiag the calm waters of the
Baie St. Jean. The storm has ceased
and scarcely a breath of wind is stirring
the warm moonlight night. The ship
just drifts. In the stern stands a gentleman, the only passenger, gazing, deep
in thought, down the long river of mooalight on the ocean. Where has he seen
that hideously scarred countenance before? Why does the sight of the Captain
stir within his breast instinctive feelings
of hatred for which he caanot account?
The voice of a Scottish seaman snddenly breakes upon his meditation,
singing ‘“‘Bonnie Dundee’ as he goes
about his work. Like a blow the words
of the song call up in the passenger's
mind that fatal night so long before when

Bonnie Prince Charlie’s hopes for a
Crown vanished forever. Again he
can picture that cruel, scarred face

(Continued on page 3, col. 4),

 

 

 

“a |
   

 
 
   

 

 

will ever get on without Miss Beresford.

 

glad; in so far as we have failed of our ideals I share the blame.

 

 

- Bi .
" ie

_ (Founded 1869)
| Editor-in-Chief:
: Artuur L. Murpuy, 26,

 

_ Associate Editors:
: ie Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
ony catr Avis H. MarsuHatt, 27.
2 | Ronatp Hayes, 26.
WarrEN Pusiicover, 26.
oe J. J. Lysons Atwoop, '28,

Financial Editor:
Cuas, F, MacKenzie,
. 18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

 

 

Adieu!

If, by chance, you should ask an editor of the Gazette the date
he would say: ‘‘Well—the last issue of the Gazette appeared on the
eighteenth. Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday,—yes, today is
the twenty second’’. Of course I do not claim this as an invariable
proceedure. He may alter it altogether and say something like
this: ‘‘Let me see, the next issue of the Gazette appears on the twentyfifth; Wednesday, Tuesday, Monday,—yes today is the twentysecond.”

As we reckon time it was just nineteen issues ago that the first
number of ‘our’ Gazette appeared. It was then that we made a promise, simply a promise to do our best. And this, I sincerely believe,
we have kept. True, we have not. pleased everybody, but it is so
hard to please everybody. Even the greatest politicians cannot
do that and we are not politicians.

I realize all our limitations, many of our faults. At least I
think Ido. There may be many more of which I never even dream.
However, we have wrought many changes this year with each change
a new opportunity for mistakes. Next year there will be new minds,
new ideals and ideas. Many improvements can be made. Our exchange list should be expanded. Light could thus be thrown on other
universities, their social and literary activities. An increase in
advertising might make a six page issue possible together with the
Jittle things’ such as cartoons and illustrations which we have been
denied. And there may be many, many, other things,—next year.

I wish to express my deep gratitude to those who have worked
with me and given unsparingly of their time and energy to tne
Gazette, and perhaps—just a little bit—for me. Especially must I
thank Molly Beresford, alais M. A. B., alais Canora, alais, ad infinitum. I often pity my poor successors and wonder just how they

As I write these, my closing lines, I feel almost sentimental,
perhaps sad. Rather a peculiar way for an editor, a person without
emotion, to feel. Never again shall I be able to emblazen my innermost thoughts where all may see and heed; never again when I
write shall my words be shielded and respected, all by that saving
caption, The Gazette. My pride will be the sorry loser, the University the gainer. And so—must I say it? I fear I really must—
‘Adieu!”’

Ay b..-Mi

 

The Editor-in-Chief has asked me to spill a few farewell tears
over the final number of the Gazette for this session. If I remember
rightly it is Schiller who has said that the compensation of growing
old lies in the fact that there is so much on which to look back. And
that is the feeling that comes to me with the last number of this
year’s Gazette—our workis done but there is something upon which
to look back.

I should like to say how much I have enjoyed the privilege of
being associated with the Gazette, how much I have valued the comtadeship of all its Editors, and lastly how much I have appreciated
the words of praise and of critisism expressed to me by its readers,
the students in general.

I am not sure that the Gazette has quite struck that balance of
grave and gay that is so desirable in a University magazine, but
that is entirely your own fault. Your editors are on the whole,
rather se1ious-minded people, though indeed one of them wears a
hat that belies the adjective so far as he is concerned. Had you
given us gayer material we would have woven you a Gazette of lighter
texture. However that is a fault that you can mend next session.

If I have helped to make the Gazette a reasonable success I am

But let me say that I shallnever regret having helped to edit the
Gazeite and neither will anyone who ever does.

In conclusion let me wish all success to the Editors of next
year’s Gazette; the work may at times be a little strenuous, columns
to fill and nothing to fill them, but from this year’s experience let

me say it is worth it. |
M. A. B.

Not long ago an article entitled ‘““The Practice of Writing” appeared in the Mount Allison “Argosy.” It was very interesting and
suggestive; in the course of the theme the writer classified students
into two groups, namely, students who would write if they could,
and students who could write if they would. The idea of this
identifying students struck me very forcibly. When asking for
coatributions—or perhaps when demanding reports—I have found
both types of students very courteous to me, (thanks for your polite
patience) but I have also found that very often I do not get the results that my ambitious spirit has anticipated, The trouble may
have been with myself; I am recommending to myself as well as all
prospective contributors to the Gazette, that they find confidence in
themselves—and in the Gazette, that it will publish what they write.
You, who can write, be confident in your ability to find time to

 

|

NR a Na ne EET tn oe Sa — ee
|

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

March 25th, 1926

   

write—and endeavour to develop that latent pride for the college The Work .

paper that must be within you. And you, who would write, take confidence in your ability to write. Many who thought they neither
would nor could write, have accomplished wonders, and we are
grateful for the spirit and willingness with which they have attémpted the ‘impossible.’ Good luck with your future ambitions
and thanks for your past.

A. M.

This is the end. The Editor and all the rest of us go to the discard. Policies, Ideals—all are of the past. Next year will see a new
Editor in charge of affairs, with new Associates, and new Policies, and
new Ideals. The untidy office with copies on every hand of all the
Gazettes that have been printed—with its hundreds upon hundreds of
old cuts strewn about—with its dusty shelves littered with everything
that should not be there—all this will soon become a memory for us.
Next year the new Editor will swear; he will say that there must bea
period of house cleaning; his predecessors have all said that, and his
successors will say the same thing till the end of time.

Each one of us has, in his or her small way, tried to give a little of
his best for the paper, and, (one must say it with hanging head and
averted eyes, for it seems, somehow, a thing of which one’s fellows
would feel ashamed), for the University. To give of one’s best for
the University. A splendid sentiment for a Valedictorian or Convocation speaker, but as for an ordinary undergraduate, (whatever that
is), itis simply funny. If our best was not good enough for you it is
a healthy sign. Remember that you felt that way about it when the
work. is being tackled next year. It will be your best then.

° Fr. KR. o,

For the last time I review the exchanges for this year. Ever
since last October I have been diligently reading the daily, weekly
and monthly publications of our contemporaries, and watching
with interest the evolution of current college topics—from the
sparkling originality which is characteristic of early issues, along
through the cheerfulness of the Christmas numbers, to the period
of seriousness which invariably marks their close. I am glad to
note that in many cases the editor’s age old cry for better literary
material has met with a favorable response,— in our own Gazette
among them.

Naturally an Exchange Editor regrets that the scope of our
Gazette does not allow the copying out of many gems from other
college papers and magazines. However, during this year’s close
association with the Gazette I have found that the permanent welfare and successful growth of the paper rests on the co-operation of
our Own students. They should be animated by a spirit of loyalty
and devotion which is the fruition of voluntary and personal exertion
on behalf of the Gazette. The worth-while college has no nitch for the
chronic crab or kicker, neither has he any true partnership in college
life who is forever nagging and complaining. Paramount among the
triumvirate of essential principles is college loyalty—loyalty which
finds external, forceful, active expression in action, not in mere lip
service. True loyalty seeks out and finds expression in the many
avenues of earnest endeavour which present themselves to every
collegian; it does not slink in the background of college activity,
nor snarl carpingly on the side-lines of the campus.

So I relinquish the Exchange Editorship to my successor—be
yours to hold it higher.

© W. BSP.

I must admit I feel frightfully out of place on this page and
particularly in company with the other members of the Editorial
staff whose writings have during the past year delighted the Gazette
readers with their interesting subjects and easy style. Since I took
over the sport page and began following Dalhousie games I have
spent many pleasant moments watching, but many wearysome weekends writing about them. I have tried to write about every game as
I saw it and if in so doing I have injured anyone's pride or hurt
anyone’s feelings I hope they will forgive and forget, for my intentions
were of the best. Before bidding farewell to those whom I have
come in contact with while following the games and to those who
have taken the trouble to read the back page, I must congratulate
Arthur Murphy for the excellent work he has done for the Gazette
this year and thank him for the wholehearted co-operation that I
got from him at all times. My parting wish is that the Dalhousie
teams will be more successful in their contests at the end of April
than they were in their athletic ones during the past year, so that
those who are returning may do so with a clean sheet ready to make
next year a banner one in sport. Those who are graduating will
leave places hard to fill but they have merely stepped aside to let
others carry on. They are always there in spirit in their accustomed
places urging on their stalwart mates to victory. Dalhousie is her
graduates, and if those who are leaving this year play the game as
well outside as they have inside, Dalhousie should have every cause
to be proud of them.

Ea Te Aas he

With this issue, the weekly editions of The Dalhousie Gazette are
concluded for 1925-26.

At the beginning of the Fall term, it was hoped that a six page
publication could be printed, but this proved too prodigious an undertaking, from the financial point of view, and for this year we have
had to content ourselves with a four page paper.

The Gazette this year, however, contained much more reading matter in its newspaper size column than did the eight page Gazette of last
year. Next year with the “Council” once again on a firm financial
foundation, there should be no trouble in having a six page paper,
which would allow for the Literary Supplements which the Editor
and his associates had planned for this year.

It is to be hoped that those graduating this spring will show their
loyalty and interest in the University by subscribing to the Gazette:
There is always room on the mailing list for a loyal Alumnus.

In closing I may say to those who are disappointed at the
absence of the ‘““Year Book”’ this year that there will be funds available for a small Graduation number of the Gazette.

) C.F. Mi:

Campaign

 

Scene-—Reception Room, Sheri Hall
Time—8 p. m.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

oo
GES “Saree aaa a i Cae See ee { Students.
GRarlie. 5.35% tard ee ie \

Minella is sitting in an easy chair by
the door, gazing sentimentally into the hall.
A ponderous-looking text-book in her lap.

Jack! He is so
dreadfully jealous; 1 wonder what he
would say if he knew? It is so nice of
him to stay away for two whole days—
to let me get my work done, as he thinks.
Charlie shouldn't be long now; I wonder
why he couldn’t come yesterday? (Sentimentally): Isn’t it dreadful to have two
men simply dying of love for me. It
makes me quite excited to feel that they
would &i// one another if they knew—
and I can’t decide between them. Men
are so silly anyway, (she draws herself
up virtuously) but so useful. (Smiling):
I’ve had a wonderful time, a simply
wonderful (a ring at the bell) time. That
must be Charlie!

(Enter Jack, with beaming fac e).

Jack: Minella! I simply had to come
up and see you; I’m so fed up with working all by myself. (Coaxingly): You're
not annoyed, are you, darling? I know
I said I wouldn'’t....

Minella (with an eye on her watch): No,
I'm not exactly annoyed, Jack dear....
but you know you must do your work;
the exams are posted now. I’m thinking
of you; my work doen’s matter so much.

Jack: I’m a selfish pig, Minella! I
ought to have remembered your work.
But I love you so much... .I’m sorry,
Minella; I can see you don’t want me.
(Tragically): Well, it’s the begianing of
the end, I suppose.

Minella (half-tearfully): Don’t say
that—you know it’s not true; you know
I love you—at least I think I do. But
I'm thinking of your work—

Jack (with heat): Oh, damn my work!
what are you looking at your watch for?
Do you want me to go, really? I wanted
you to come to the Orpheus. I phoned
but they said you were working, but I
came on the chance that you might come
out—it’s not good for your health to
study all the time.

Minella (frying to soothe him): I know.
I always want you to come; I don't
want you to go. But, Jack dear, |— I—
| promised to go out with Charlie Green
tonight; you don’t object do you? I
don't really care much for him but he’s
rather interesting. You see dear, you
haven't read Tolstoi and France and
[Ibsen and Echegaray and the other
people you’re supposed to know in
Philosophy 8 and English 9, and you see
Charlie had these last year and it saves
me such a lot of reading when he talks
about them. He’s really quite interesting when he talks though he’s not a bit
nice—looking, not like you Jack.

Jack: Damn interesting men! I
know I’m not interesting. I don’t know
anything about these guys. I like
Stevenson and Conrad and—and Leacock and stuff like that. I don’t like
these sex-problem chaps and I don’t
understand women anyway.

Minella: Don’t be ‘upset, Jack;
you're quite different, don’t you see?
Charlie can’t play hockey and box and,
er—

Jack (bitterly): And be generally
fooled by women for their glorification.
You have made use of me long enough—
you might have told me all this sooner,
and saved me finding out I was only a
second string to your bow! This is why
you begged me to stay away and here’s
Mme. di.

Minella: J, Jack dear, not me....

Jack (angrily): Rot! Here’s me
thinking of you only all the time, just
longing to see you, while you—O, don’t
say a word: for two pins 1’d wring both
your necks!

Minella (fradically): Jack—for heaven’s sake—there’s the bell—it’s Charlie,
don’t do anything rash—I’ll explain. ...

(Enter Charlie, very cheerily).

Charlie: Good evening Minella; I..
Hello, Jack! Forestalled, ‘pon my word!
Ha, ha, ha! Well, | had the laugh over
you yesterday at the Browns when you
came and found me there, first; but it
seems the tables are turned tonight!
me (chuckling and digging Jack in the
ros).

Minella: Poor

Jack (making frantic signs): Shut
up, you idiot!
Charlie: Idiot yourself; Minella

won't object; she knows us fairly well
don’t you, Cleopatra? You would have
laughed to see Nan Brown's face when I
forestalled jack in his appointment.
She stuck to me, though, and we just
inveigled him gently away. I'll be a
sport tonight in my turn,. .. .got some
work to do, anyhow... . Bye-bye, you
people. See you tomorrow, Minella.

Jack: Wait a minute, Charlie; |
want to see you about something. Come
on down to the Forrest Building, will
you?....That’s where this damned work
Campaign started... .

They go out arm-in-arm.

Minella collapses in the easy chair and
the big text book falls unheeded to the floor.
Curtain, ‘

ENGLISH 9,

 
    

    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
     
   

.

Banquet
‘he St. Julian room, the Halifax
Friday evening March 19th was
ae of the most successful banquet
held by the Dalhousie Engineers.
peeurerng body turned out in
force and everybody was there with the
wed intention of having a good time.
Budd enlivened the banquet
shout with some excellent piano
c¢ and provided the necessary inion for Walter Dechman's ‘Charleston’ and Albert Mahon’s novelty dance.
- The Re bncerc’ yell, Dal ycll and King's
_ yell followed by the Engineering song
“were given with great gusto. Mr.
Glube of the Strand also contributed
much to the musica! end of the pro3 gramme by several highly appreciated
*« vocal solos.
_ The toast to the King was proposed
by President Owen Armstrong and
“responded to by the singing of the National Anthem.
George Kent then proposed a_toast
to the Engineering profession and in a
= very finished speech gave an outline
of the five branches of Engineering and
© the progress which is being made in
Y ©6Oeach «division. Gwing to the much
regretted absence to Professor Theakston this toast was not responded to,
_ The Dalhousie Engineering Society
was then proposed by Harold Sandford,
~ who showed how the graduates from the
= department compared favourably with
» those of other colleges, and said that
this was due in a great part to the
- energetic efforts of the Engineering pro'fessors. Professor Copp made a most
' acceptable reply to this toast. ;
' The absent members and the ladies
were toasted respectively by. Harry Bell
~ and John Morton. The latter in a very
humorous speech referred to the great
_ part which the ladies take in the lives
* of many of us and how much considera* tion we should have for them.
ol The final toast, to the graduates, was
| proposed by Bob Doull, next year’s
president. He brought out the fact that
_ the Engineering society has made great
.- progress during the past year and attributed this in no small degree to the
officers of the preseat year who all belong to the graduating class. President
Armstrong in responding to this toast
d thanked the members who had joined
in making the year such a success, mentioning especially the exceptional interest
which the first year éngineers have taken
in the activities of the society.
The next tiing on the programme was
a discussion on the attendance question
in which a number of those present
joined. The unanimous opinion which
was held by the students was that all
attendance rules should be abolished for
the more advanced students if not for all
students. They also objected to the
half measurers employed in the 90%
j attendance rule. Professor Copp in
expressing his personal views stated
that the authorities were merely acting
from experience and that they had their
own reputation to uphold insofar as tie
record of the students at the end of the
|. year was concerned. ,He also said that
¥ he was in favour of having no rigid rules
providing the students were willing to
co-operate with tre professors in getting
; up the required werk. |
In the ‘‘parting shot” of the evening
Professor Copp congratulated the men| = bers who had contributed so much tot e
, success of the banquet and declared t! at
oo i+ was one of the best, if not the best
ever held by the Engineering Society.

 
  
  
 

‘
}

   
 
   
  
  
 

Ly
;

}

 

Majestic Notes

 

 

“The Quaker Girl” is now playing at
the Majestic. This delightful musical
comedy, produced by the talented members of the Halifax Music and Dramatic
Club, is attracting large and enthusiastic
audiences. The comedy possesses all
the quaintness which the aame suggests
and the music is pleasing and catchy
hroughout.

l Bor the first part of next week Syd.
Chaplin will be at the Majestic in his latest vehicle, ‘Oh! What A Nurse. He
| plays the role of cub reporter and pos sesses all the push and lack of sophistica~
- tion generally attributed to youthful
© members of that profession. He has an
"opportunity, too, of donning skirts once
more and gives a delightful exhibition of
female impersonation as head matron of
a large hospital. The picture is full of
really clever humor and should not be

missed.

oo

    
 
   
   

|| UNGAR’S
| VALETERIA

iD
A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

$428 BARRINGTON ST.

hd

fs

 

we

 

nl
A

o | | t

 

 

i =
see

ngineering Society! Sociology Club

ee

The subject for discussion at the meeting of the club on 15th March was
‘Accidents and Prevention”, and the
special speaker for the day was Mr.

hilip Ring, Inspector of Factories for
Nova Scotia. From his long experience
of eighteen years in that capacity, Mr.
Ring was able to present this social
problem in a very practical fashion.
He gave statistics to.show the great
reduction in accidents, both in fatal
accidents and in those of a less serious
nature, since accident-prevention measures had been made compulsory and
“safety first’’ campaigns had been instituted in factories. The figures were
very striking and gave hope that accidents in industry will some day be
entirely eliminated so far as human
power can accomplish this. He emphasised that educative methods are
better than compulsory, and that the
greatest success is reached where employers and employees co-operate in the
use of machine guards and safety methods

and in the mutual desire to prevent
accidents.

The hearty thanks of the club to
Mr. Ring was expressed by Messrs.

Davidson and Forbes.

PRIZES AWARDED IN LITERARY
COMPETITION.

Miss Freda Winfield and Mr. James
Fraser were awarded the prizes for prose
and verse, respectively, the Gazefte preChristmas Literary Competition, the
winning contributions being ‘‘The Monster’’ and a sonnet, ‘‘Sunset.”’

The committee of award consisted of
Frofessors C. L. Bennet, J. Nelson Gowanloch and H. E. Read.

No contributions were deemed worthy
of a second prize.

Maccabaean Dance

The Maccabaean Society of Dalhousie
University held their last dance of the
season, at the Robie St. Auditorium last
Tuesday evening. About eighty people
were present including iss Freda
Smofsky and Miss Millie Basson both
from Acadia, wno were the guests of
honor of the evening. Music was
supplied by the ‘‘Keys Trio.’’ The hall
was tastefully decorated with black and
gold streamers. The committee in
enarge of the affair were Phil Magonet,
chairman, Charles Gavsie, Isabella Pink
and C. M. Rosenblum

 

“He says he’s a_ pessimist.”
‘What's that?”

Kay:
Coy:

Kay: ‘It means a man who never
kissed
A pretty girl, or praised her
eyes,
Who never knows the fun. he
missed,

A pessimist.
A mannikin who apes the wise
A nature with a fearful twist,
Dame Grundy in a thin disguise,
A pessimist.”

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO

CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

“KELLYS”’

FOR

CANES
“The Specialty Shop’”’

116 118 GRANVILLE STREET

   

 

  
     
 

  
 
 

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

 

Cut Flowers, Bouquets

and all Floral. Work
Pe Mora Sa +1)!

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Atwood and Publicover Gain at id

Standing of Contestants.

The Gazette takes pleasure in announcing that Messrs. Warren Publicover and
Jack Atwood, both of the Gazette staff
have amassed twenty-five points in the
Literary ‘‘D’ competition and are thus
entitled to the Gazette Literary ‘‘D’’. The
standing of the other contestants, up to
March 19th, is as follows: :

Prank Page) ss skis ices coy 18
Prgms: WEATStiath., . «cc. «5 a Ree 174
Bienus Morton iin 6. Be. Oe. a 14
Eltsabeth Morton .. .... a6 60 6.10% 14
Mreda: Winfield. < ..4). +4. Wla ers 13
Folk; S1QVOS.,..66 2 30 Welds Jha
farriet: Roper te ws acid acide dicteess si 13
Herbert. Davidson, . fsisecees es « e 12
Elinor Barnsted@ns as nb wciecieie est 103
Gu RT IMBCKOE.. 3 .:.4-coved ame lent 104
Bg Eeiea Not 5 ia <0) alas sha oie 10}
Glerale GOGO. ccc ste yal feng sins be ee
DF aeoneld 5 Sac ay. cd 8
305. MiacCNAnUs. ts <. samara coe + <i Tk
Andrew Hebb......... 7
BROWER IIT 8 ih Bias le cand aes 63
Ne Re yy gy vets 4 ie kw 64
AL rac Doriales (2 2 chs eee esses 6 6
RRBEE Yee ies) a so cies eae 9 thus 6 ak 5
Charlotta Jonnson... 2. f esi ce 8
PA TIIER OMe gg cg oi 54
Rati poure. Paes chet ke ae: 5
OPIS for oe ule 2 Gao: cx 5
DIGYORDIG BCITY ook ee ee a « 44
Athsonm MactCurdy, 125.50 0c. St
PURO BOITES btn praca ts oe fs er tees 34
Late E ASE a ae Minas ties ting 2s 3f
ASHE CROCS Cyr ales yes eyes 3 3
Bie INP ES eee eet yi eek nie eS 3
Roweras BOUU a j< ee selec cae es 3
DV RILOP RUSS Shas ee oe ee ees 27
RTs PCH ATRURIE a ede cee sins, 6 hoi Se aks 25
AACR WROTETE CO eeeag Me he ha es 23
Se WAC DIOOAIG tae ee eS
ASEOUY PULDIOM. alse ee eu ee es 24
Raion Morten. 7. 25 es iit esas | 2}

Exacting requirements for Baccalaureate holders:

The following advertisement appeared
in a Middle-West newspaper:

Wanted Man-—University graduate to
work in geaeral merchandise store in
small interior town and learn to be shoemaker,

One who can help milk the cow and
play in the band preferred. Must be man
of clean habits; cigarette smokers, sheiks
and loafers do not apply. Man who
understands gas engines and tractors will
be given preference. Users of intoxicating liquors and profane language will not
be coasidered. Man who gets this job
must not be too proud and aristocratic
to mingle with the livestock ana chickens
ana help out in the kitchen now and then.

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and Colleg_. . ext Books
Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents For

Society Brand Clothes

Correct Dress For Students

437 Barrington Street

  
 
  
  
   

The Dress Shop
The Hat Shop
The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

 

 

 

Second floor, where exclusivencss
and moderate prices prevail.

Jensen & Mills Co. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

My Ambitions

My Ambitions soared so high, they

Towered o’er the waving tree-tops,

Stretching jewelled fingers heavenward,

While the sunlight bathed in splendor

All the beauteous golden portals.

Happiness, a smiling goddess,

Reigned, and singing in the daytime

Filled the mansion with her spirit.

When the velvet night descended

And the towers turned to silver

When the sparkling dancing waters

Sent a wealth of gurgling laughter

To the stars, then Love sang softly,

Passionately, ‘neath her casement.

Now a silver rain weeps gently

O’er the ruins. Happiness has

Fled, and Love is ever searching

Through the sighing weeds that cover

Her, with sad-eyed tenderness.
zB:

“THE WHEELS OF TIME.’’
(Continued from page 1, col. 5).

G.

above him, through all these years
burned deeply in his memory. Going
below to his cabin he takes his sword
and comes again on deck. Walking up
to the Captain he placed his hand on his
arm saying:—‘‘I am the officer you
robbed on Fliedden Field. Come with
me, this night shall I be revenged.”’
The Captain started, stopped, and bowed
his head as he paces up and down the
deck for a few moments. ‘‘It is well,
Monsieur,’”’ he says at last, and to the
mate, ‘‘If I do not return you will steer

for Quebec. Lower a boat!”
*

* * % # + * *

The moon soaked town on the waters
of the Harhor of Poictu sparkling under
its beams saw a boat leave the side
of a vessel anchored near its mouth, and
go towards the shore. It contained two
men.

The boat grates upon the beach and
both leap out. There is a rasp and a
flash of steel as sword meets sword.
In ten minutes all is over and the moon
sees a man lying on his back, the waves
of the high tide licking his feet, while a
crimson splash stands out on his breast
and grows wider and wider. A man is
rowing back to the ship, and the rower
is the passenger. The night of Fledden
is avenged at last.

a

* * * * * * *

Epilogue.

Years roll on. The Harbor of Poictu
now has on its shores a thriving little
settlement of Scottish pioneers. Harnish Meclvor is ploughing his ‘‘shore
clearing,” and with him his son. A
sudden rasp and the plow throws up a
rusty object. It is a sword, tarnished
with rust, but wonderfully preserved.
With a grunt of satisfaction the farmer
handsitto hisson. Tak’ it tae the smith

Jamie,” he says, ‘“‘twull mak’ bonnie
dirks for cleanin’ herrin’.”
The ‘‘Wheels of time’ have turned,

another hopper is filled.

 
  

2)
ah

15‘ per pkt.
29 ford‘

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufactured 5
aperial Tobacco Co. of Canada, Limited.

King ee
CIGARETTES

Page Three

 

Gilda Gray Struts
her Stuff

(By McGill Daily)

The notorious Miss Gilda Gray has
let the light of her passionate personality,
fall on the hallowed grounds of McGill
University! Yesterday noon the main
driveway of the campus was the scene of
a thrilling display of Curwood-esque
excitement and North-West ferocity,
for which Montreal is so famous in the
erroneous opinion of the inhabitants of
the United States. A team of four
husky huskies and a sled of typical
Northern construction were to be seen
speeding up and down the drive, to the
accompaniment of the clicking of a motion picture camera and the shouts of
some pseudo-mushers in lumbermen’s
coats and hairy head-gear . Gilda herself, artistically painted up to the eyes
and attired in fringed buckskias and
ski-boots, was perched on the back of
the sleigh, her blonde cerebellum surmounted by a fur cap in the traditions
rranner of the Heroine of the Big Snow.
We hope she enjoyed herself.

The object of the pantomima was a
Pathe-news motion-picture for the edification of the credulous public of the
great cosmopolitan nation just south of
us. In all probability it will also be
shown at the Capitol in conjunction with
the sinuous gyrations of Miss Gray, on
which we made some meaicre comment
last Tuesday. The proceedings yesterday were greatly enlivened by an excellent dog-fight just inside the gates, one
of the best we have seen for a long time,
and which was finally stopped by an
undiscriminating use of whips and heavy
boots and a considerable of outpouring
of blasphemy by the pseudo-mushers.
Gilda watched the affair with apparent
amusement, we observed. They were
probably not her own dogs.

But Before she left in her car we obtained
introduction and had a few words

an
with her. A great privilege. The exponent of the soul-devouring ‘“‘shimmy”’
We

said that we had a nice university.
are so glad.

When inT own

GET THE

Three Essentials

1. Pure Food and Candy

2. Prompt and Courteeus
Service

Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. = Geo. Alexander

       
      
     
     
       
        

3.

      
       
     
       
  
   

 

 
   
    
    

 

 

 
Clothes , Saal the Colleges
SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington}Sts.
HALIFAX

      
         

  

Tentative Time
Table Spring Exams

ARTS AND SCIENCE.

 

Wed., Apr. 21.
9.30-12.30 French 2.
2.30- 5.30 Chem. 2, 2A;

Phil. 11.

Thurs., Apr. 22.

9.30-12.30 Latin 1, 2;
Commerce 5.
2 30- 5.30 Economics 1; Drawing 3.

Fri., Apr. 23. ee et

9.30-12.30 English 1,9; Phil. 13; I hysics 15. :

¥ 30- 5.30 German 2; Hist. 6; Government 5; Phil. 1; Zool.
8: Botany 3; Commerce 1
Engl. 1A; Geol. 3; Draw.
1, YS.

Sat., Apr. 24.
9.30-12.30 Llem.

Hist. 2;

Bib. Lit.;

Physics 13,;

Greek; Greek 1;
Phil. 8; Physics

to ‘Chem, 4;' Geol? . 3;
Surveying.

2.30- 5.80 French 1, 5.

Mon., Apr. 26.

9.30-12.30 History 1. :

2.30- 5.80 klem. Germ.; Engl. 10;

Econ. 6,11; Phil. 3; Phy
sics 8: Chem. 6; Com
merce 4; Biol. 1A.
Tues., Apr. 27.

9.30-12.80 Elem. Latin; Latin 4;
French 10; Span. 2; Hist.
5; Econ. 5; Geol. 10;

Math. 2; Mechanics 5.
2.30- 5.30 Archaeoolgy; Span. 1; Govt.
1; Phil.2; Draw. 2; Hist.
1A.
d., Apr. 28. .
M3012. 30 Greek 2; Phil. 10; Physics
, 20; Chem. 1, 1A; lem.
Chem.; Mechanics 2;
Commerce 6, '
230- 5.30 Elem. French; English 2, 5;
Greek 4; Math. 7; Physics 2, 4; Mechanics 4.
Thurs., Apr. 29.
pb 1eae Germ. 1; English 8; Hist.
» Phil. 7; . Geol. Z:
Commerce 9; Math. 4.
2 30- 5.30 Span. 10; Ecen. 12; Govt.
6; Biol. 1; Music 2.
Fri., Apr. 30.

9,30-12.80 French 4; English 3; Econ.
| ; Govt..38; Chem. 7.
2.30- 5.80 Math. 1, 1C, 8; Commerce
2. Physics 14; Hist. 2A;
Additional Biol. 1; Additional Zoology 3.

Additional Examinations for Distinction.
Sat., May 1.

9.90-12.30 Latin 2,4; Hist. 1,5; Econ.
oR

.# oPhil,!) 2, 10, “18.
Govt. 3; \Math. 2; Physics 6; Chem. 4.

_2.30- 5.30 Engl. 2, 3,6, 8; Phil. 3,7, 11,
heey

Govt. 5; Math. 4;
Greek 2; Germ. 2; Physics 20.
Mon., May 3
9.30-12.30 | rench 2, 4, 5; Engl. 9, 10;
k ist. 2; Govt. 1, 6; Archacol.; Latin 6; Fhysics
14- Chem. 7; Gecl. 1

Music 2.
230- 5.80 I hil. 1, 8; List, 8,6; L con.
12,5; Math, 8, Greck 4.

WINNERS From The

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade

Mark on Sporting Goods has been

a mark of perfection. No matter

what your favorite sport may be, we

ean supply you with equipment that

will help you play the game with
best that's in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX N. S.

 

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicns,

Wepopinc Bouquets. We

also do Tastz Decoratinc. We

are members of the

. 7. F, D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

 

“The Girl Problem”

On Tuesday a very successful meeting
of the Sociology Club was held when the
special speaker was Miss Hobrecker, of
the Y. W.C.-A. She took as her subject,
‘The Girl Problem,” and gave a most instructive and inspiring address, She
told us of some of the different phases of
the problem—education, recreation, life
in the factory, in the restaurant, in domestic service. Each aspect of the problem was touched upon with the knowledge
than can cviie only with experience.
; Miss Hobrecker pointed out how unorganized women-workers are, how the
conditions under which they toil require
remedying, the need, for instance, of women inspectors of factories, all the inspectors in Nova Scotia being men. She
also mentioned the international value of
the work, telling how girls from European
countries coming to Canada are met and
supervised so that the strangeness and
the dangers of a new land are overcome.
The members of the Club are deeply
grateful to Miss Hobrecker for her finely
inspiring address.

 

ST. BERNARD DEBATERS DEFEAT DALHOUSIE.
(Continued from page 1, col. 2.)
and plans, and there could be no hope of
the success of an Imperial Couacil, without fiscal and economic unity. Then,
from the standpoint of expense, figures
show that out of each $1,000 of Great
Britain’s trade, she appropriates $125 to
maintain her Army and Navy, while
Canada spends only 74 cents for such
purposes. Canada would have to share
the larger expense of the greater risk in
volved in extensive foreign relations.

Miss Marshall. contended that the formation of an Imperial Council contained
greater promise for each part of the Empire, and the Empire, as a whole. She
stressed the fact that action by the council would have to be unanimous, and no
dominion could be committed to.a policy
to which it was opposed in the council.
She likened the admission of the dominions to such a council, to a father’s taking
his sons into partnership with him.

Canada’s attitude always had been.opposed to such a scheme, asserted Miss
Nowland, the last speaker for the negative, and she quoted Tupper, Laurier and
Meighen in support of her contention.
Canada’s interests had often been sacrificed by Great Britain, she said, notably
at the close of the American war for independence, and the war of 1812.

Miss Atherton, in rebuttal for the
affirmative, said the formation of an I[mperial Council would be in accord with the
views of the greatest statemen of all
countries in the Empire. Loyalty to a
king was a slender thread on which to
hang the fate of an empire, she asserted,
and argued that ties of common interests
were necessary. She. quoted a German
paper as having admitted that there would
have been no warlike action by Germany
in 1914, had the government of that country realized that all parts of the British
Empire would join hands against the
aggressor,

In rebuttal for the negative, Miss
Fitzgerald asserted that an Imperial
Council would destroy the unity of the
Empire, by doing violence to national
feelings of the various constituent parts.
She ridiculed the idea of unity in a council, and contended that the requirement
of unanimity would actually paralyze
such a body, as there could be no action
at all, unless every member of the Council subscribed to a proposed policy. In
any case, she said, the success of such a
council would encourage universal atmament, as all other states would fcar the
strength of an empire that could be depended upon to act as a unit.

$24.00

Suit or
Over Coat

Best value

 

to your measure.
in Canada.

See the many advantages

we offer over sending away

thousands of miles for your
clothes.

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

 

    
 
     

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service © The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don't NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

DALHOUSIE’ GAZETTE

 

IN THE LIBRARY.

A day, spring-born. A Latin
qu_z to-morrow.

Sure’ y the gods desire that we
shou d know

To fu lest apprehension all! the
sorrow

Of thirsty Tantalus, or the enduring woe

Of Ixion striving ’neath the
burning skies

In towest Hades. The sunshine mocking flings

Its light upon this page of Virgil wise,

While in the Campus a lone
robin sings.

But e’en as Judas from the
depths below,

Each year by heaven’s decree

. and judgment meet,

For ten sweet minutes to the
Pole may go

And on an iceberg cool his blistered feet)

We too have compensation.
SHE sits there

A sunbeam making golden all
her hair.

FT
LN,

DESTINY iS INTERWOVEN
(Continued from page 1, col. 2.)

to her happiness, he could not make
plans quickly enough. Needless to say,
he spared ne expense. In this his mother
fully agreed with him. She was a good
loser. So it was decided that Kathleen
should go to a French convent for three
years.

“No one consulted Kathleen. It did
net occur tc Lady O'Dair that the girl
might be anything but delighted with the
plan. Even John, for all his tenderness,
did not seem to realize that it might be
something of an ordeal for the shy
little country girl to go away to a strange
land among people not only of an alien
tongue, but also of an alien class. But
Kathleen said nothing.

All too soon the arrangements were
completed and the day of sailing arrived.
This was in the days of sailing vessels,
when the journey from Ireland to France
was a long and hazardous one, So
Lord John, who was an officer in the
army, was able to get leave for but one
visit tc the convent in the whole three
years.

The nuns were kind to Kathleen.
She was an apt pupil, and of so sensitive
a temperament that she responded
readily to the influences of her environment. But she was not happy. After
a few months she becan.e, outwardly, one
with her companions. But they were
not her people, and their ways were not
her ways. Yet, her determination to be
worthy of John, together with an enduring patience enabled her to disguise her
fezlings and appear a great deal happier
than she was. And so eighteen months
passed away and John came on his
promised visit.

He found her greatly changed, more
delicate in appearance, quieter in manner,
something of her former lightness was
missing, but he believed the alteration
to be a result of deliberate training.
He was touched by the wistfulness of her
smile at parting, but, after all, he wanted
her to be a little sad. It showed that
she loved him.

At length the three years were ended,
and Kathleen set outforhome. She was
no longer wistful, she had become
and accomplished woman, beautiful,
self-possessed, a woman whom even Lady
(’Dair might be proud to call “daughter”

The first night she sat out on deck
until quite late, thinking of the future,
and John. The thought of John did not
thrill her as in former days. lhe had
been pushed into the background cl
ate. There had been so much to do and
to think about. She wondered idly i
education had killed her emotions.

tresently she heard a voice singing
an old song, a favorite ci her father’s.
4s she listened a wane of home sickness
swept over her such as had not surged
over her in the whole three years. ‘Lhe
singer drew nearer and she saw that he
was one of the crew, on his way aft.
She gazed after him a moment, and then
meved by an impulse she did not understand, got up and followed him.

Some weeks later John O’Dair and
his mether were at the dock to meet
Kathleen. The ship had been delayed
by storms. John had almost reached
the end of his patience to say nothing of
that of his mother. When the vessel
dicked there was not a sign of Kathleen.
Presently he saw her slipping away across

the quay with one of the sailors. John
strode after her.
“Kathleen! Here I am, dear! Hasn't

she changed, mother? Let me present
the future Lady Kathleen O’Dair:”

Kathleen looked at him a moment in
condensed silence. An expression, half
fear, half remorse flitted across her
face. Then her years of training came
to her assistance. She,recovered herself
immediately, holding out her hand:
“Good morning, Lord John. I really
had not expected to see you.” And
glancing. at her escort, “‘I want you to
meet my husband. We were married
at sea this morning.’’

_ Don. McInnes: “Romance and politics go hand in hand,”

|

4

Interfaculty
_ Basketball

DAL. 25. ACADIA 21.

Dal. won the Intercollegiate Cup for
the first time since it was put up by nosing
out the Acadia Co-eds’ 25-21 in an excellent game before the largest crowd that
has been in the Gal. Gym. to witness a
game this year. This ts, incidently, the
first trophy that a Dalhousie team has
won this year, and Mr. Stirling is to be
congratulated for turning out the best
Girl’s Basketball team in the Maritimes.
Unfortunately the major honors go to
four of the players who are going to graduate this year. The Captain, Marion
Campbell, has scored 144 points in thetsix
Intercollegiate games and it is to her that
the major honors go. She had her team
back of her to a man, or rather girl, at all
times, and always obeyed the orders she
got from the coach. Marion has also
played many of the games in the city
league and though the full figures are
not available her scoring total! of the season should be well over 200 points. She
is a member of Class '26. The two guards
Elinor Barnstead and Harriett Roberts
have played with Dal. for four years and
their excellent work last Friday night
successfully checked the Acadia attack.
Though never featuring in the scoring
column they seem at all times determined
to prevent their opponents from getting
these either. Both members of ’'26.
Mabel Borden as side center was also excellent and has been throughout the
league. A member of '26. Alice Atherton, Edwina Archibald and Marjorie
Thompson who comprise the rest of the
team will be back next year and if their
work of the past season is any indication
of their work aext year they will more
than form the nucleus of a new team.
Dal. has played two games with each of
the other teams and in the six games has
collected 197 points while they had 96
scored against them. A very creditable
record.

Line up:—Marion Campbell (Capt.)
19, Alice Atherton 9, Edwina Archibald,
Marjorie Thompson,. Mable Borden,
Harriett Roberts, Elinor Barnstead,
Betty Freeman, Gertrude Phinney.

 

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes,

*PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

 

 

JOHNNY HINES

in

‘RAINBOW RILEY”’

MORE LAUGHS THAN THE
RAINBOW HAS COLORS

FIRST CHAPTER
OF NEW SERIAL

THE GREEN ARCHER

OUR GANG COMEDY

FIRST 3 DAYS NEXT WEEK
NOBMA SHEARER

A SLAVE of FASHION

 

CASINO

 

 

A Complete
Musical Service

Everything that Students
requirein Music, including
small instruments Of every
description. Sheet Music &
Music Books will be found

PHINNEY’S Limited
| 414 BARRINGTON ST. |}

TS
TT

 

March 25th, 1926

Dalhousie 35
Y.W.C. A. 24

The Dal. Co-eds’ City League Team
qualified for the finals by defeating the %
WwW. C. A. “B’ Team last Wednesday
night. The first period ended 14-14 and
was the best of the two. In the second
Dal. got in some nice combination work
which carried the ball down the floor in a
most bewildering manner and usually resulted in a score. Marion Campbell collected 26 points enough to have won the
game herself, and Alice Atherton netted
the pill for 9 points. The two forwards
played an excellent game being right on
the job all the time. But it was the
guards that provided the sensation of the
evening particularly Blanche MacPhail.
After being nearly knocked cold at the
beginning of the game when she tripped
and someone sat on her head she came
back and played a wonderful game. The
two centres alsc helped materially in their
eams’ victory. Marjorie Thompson as
jumping center and Gertrude Phimney as
side center handled the ball with clean
dexterity, their quick passing and close
guarding keeping the ball down to the
Dal. forwards at moments when a chance
to shoot meant a score.

Line up:—Campbell 26, Atherton 9,
Thompson, Phinney, Freeman, McPhail,

 

Thompson, Foote, McCurdy.
. Allan Lucas and ‘‘Turk’’ MacKenzie
refereed.

 

 

      

FAIRLY

JEWELRY bricep
H. C. HENDERSON

HIGH
CLASS

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville

 

 

 

HIGH-GRADE MEDICAL
STUDENT WANTED
To sell high-grade medical
publications to physicians
with whom we have established connection. Several new
books just out. Big commission, assuring a good income
now in spare time, and also
whole time after college session. Apply with fullest details to J. B. Lippincott Company, P. O. Box 1443, Montreal, P. Que.

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’'S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand, Our Hain Curtine is sure
satisfy. Lapres’ Harn Cuttine in all
styles; also Cumtinc, SHampooinc and
Massacinc, One trial will convince,

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

41 Sackville St.

* Phone S 4780

 

The Green Lantern |

is a restaurant where :
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices. ::

Light Lunches and Ice Cream
ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

 

 

If You Want to See Well
SeeW ALLACE

T. J. WALLACE

Optometrist & Optician Y. M. C.A.Bld

 

 

 

You know the rest of thie

ALPHA BETA alphabet, but won't you

learn the music f Musi P
eno ee on a Music Dealer's Text Book.

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

 

 
