 

 

TT
ome
—

HAT

:
, oy
|

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, DECEMBER 10th,

and People I have met

 

I.

“Make Thou my vision sane and clear
That I may see what beauty clings

In common forms, and find the soul
Of unregarded things.”

Charles G. D. Roberts.

For my text today let me take, ‘The
last shall be first,”’ since the poet I have
met most recently is a Canadian, Charles
G. D. Roberts. In October I went to
hear him read from his own works and
the other evening to hear him speak on
“The Canadian Spirit in Canadian Literature,” and in between I had several little
talks with him. At our first meeting he
refused my request for something for the
Gazette, giving as his reason that he

writes slowly and never does a thing off-| been

hand as then he’d be giving only his
second-best, and as I agreed with him that
one’s second-best is never good enough,
T said I’d let him off. He was kind enough
to. however, that I could interview
him for the Gazette as much as I liked.
Unfortunately I do not know how you
interview ‘‘celebrities’’ so I missed my
opportunity. But one stormy morning
OTT vet Galt: with Dr. Roberts and we
continued it on other finer days.
What topics does one discuss with a
poet? Cigarettes, London, prohibition,
the Maritimes, safety-pins, (I once had
the honor of pinnt Andrew Lang’s
shirt-sleeves with safety-pins, and Charles
Roberts gave me a couple with which to
perform the same service for him. How
very human poets are!) gipsies and vagabonds, Carman, Yeats, Norwood, Kipling,
Wilson M , George Moore, and
so on. ‘Those of ae, ee ae
Moore's. phil , (thoug! am no
sure if he ee ikces what it is—
perhaps Professor Stewart could tell us),
will appreciate this quotation from one
talk: “In London, they say there are three
types of men, nice men who kiss but don’t
-tell, aarty ones who kiss and tell, and
George Moore who tells but doesn’t kiss.
You will gather that the subjects we
touched on were many and etiam i
was endously interesting me
hear Prgeak of some of the old Country
writers—to

find for pee a he
thought W. B. Yeats difficult to know,
whereas I sai found him apo ‘ae
could be—perhaps it was the Munster
blood in a wae the key that unlocked
the walls of shyness that surround Yeats!
And it was good to hear about London,
dear old London, the “hub of the universe,” the “city with the hardest head
and the tenderest heart in the world.” Dr.
Roberts has a little flat on Charing Cross
Road which makes him a real Londoner, yet he remains very distinctively and
wholly Canadian. You all know he belongs to New Brunswick and those of you
who come from that province should be
immensely proud of your poets, and those
of you who belong to Nova Scotia must
sur feel that the Bay of Fundy and
the Basin of Minas, the tides and the
marshes, have strongly influenced Roberts

an nl.

In the old country I almost think we
count Roberts as the greatest Canadian
poet, or should I say the most finished.
Oh yes, we do know Canadian poetry
over there, if not in all its fullness at
least in patches. It seems long ago since
a professor of English, knowing my love
for Shelley, gave me Roberts’ “Ave, an
,ode for the Shelley centenary,” to read.
My professor called it a Threnody, and
so it is. Certainly I did not dream then
that I should one day hear the writer of
it. I think of Carman as the poet of the
Maritimes, with the earth for his mother
and the sea for sire—pictures such as
“Apple Time” and “Low Tide on Grand
Pre” are beautiful, almost shy revelations
of the love he bears them. Lampman,
whom some call the greatest poet of Canada, is the poet of the seasons—he loved
Keats I am sure. And Pauline Johnson
is Canada in her natural loveliness. By
the way, do you all know her “Guard of
the Eastern Gate,” that fine tribute to
Halifax that I read years before I ever

saw this city and that now seems to me
so true of this old, beautiful city as it was
and as it may still be? Yet, I think perhaps I like Roberts best. Carman may
be the sweeter singer, yet most of Roberts’
lyrics sing truly and I think his sonnets
are stronger than Lampman’s. Of course
this is my own feeling. His animal
stories delight me, he loves the woods and
wild things, his descriptions of nature and
of wild life are beautiful as well as dramatic and intensely real—yet I am told
Mr. Roosevelt, the great hunter, did not
like these anima! stories at all; possibly
the difference is between a man who loves
the creatures of the forest and one who
shoots them.

Of the work of Charles Roberts, Professor MacMechan has written, ‘‘The
literary activity of Roberts has hardly
by any of his Canadian
contemporaries. Roberts is the name most
often mentioned wherever literature is
discussed—his place is conspicuous and
sure among the pioneers of Canadian
verse.” Some of you have read “Canada
in Flanders.” One section of it was
written by Major C. G. D. Roberts, but
did you know that he joined up as a
private and that he gave his age as several
years younger than he was so that he
might ‘‘do his bit” in the war?

And I think one of the greatest things
he has done is that he inspired his students at King’s to love nature and books
and to walk with unshod feet in ways of
beauty and of passionate truth. In a
recent letter to me Dr. Robert Norwood
said, (I had been telling him I’d met Dr,
Roberts), “I’m glad you love Roberts.
I do too. He discovered me to myself.
He was my Professor at King’s.” Could
a teacher ever have a nobler tribute than
that? ‘He discovered me to myself.”

And Charles Roberts is not only a
noted writer but is also a splendid Cannadian who believes Canada has a great
work to do. It thrilled me, who am learning to love Canada, to hear him say, “I
have absolute faith in Canada as the
Keystone of ‘the arch: of the Empire.”
It is men with such a faith who keep
firmly welded and untarnished the golden
links that bind the British Family of
Nations together. I wish more of you
had turned out to support him in his
lectures. It was a sort of creed with the
students of my other Alma Mater that
one hour listening to a living author is
worth many hours pouring over dead
ones, and here was a poet who has been
tried out for nearly forty years and found
good by men so wide apart as Arnold and
Kipling, yet only a very few of the students of Dalhousie went to hear him.
Don't you realize the place Canada is
taking in the art and literature of the
English speaking world today, and won't
you do a little hero-worshipping of your
own writers to encourage them in their
work for Canada?

I wish I had space to quote from his
verses and from his nature pictures, but
my time is up, so [ must refer you to
his works.

In closing if the Editor will allow me, I
should like to write down in the Gazette
a little verse of my own, not because it is
very good, but as my sincere tribute to
this fine Canadian poet.

Those of you who heard him speak must
sutely have been stirred as I was, by the
austere beauty of his voice—his reading
of lyrics is as perfect as I ever wish to
hear. Our first real talk was on that terrible stormy Saturday in October when
wind and rain beat pitilessly on everything. I was rain-drenched and windtossed, and then in Professor Munro’s
sheltered study I listened to the poet, and
a little thought came to me which I wrote
down. I gave it, rough copy as it was, to
Dr. Roberts and he liked it and bade me
not to change a word. So it stands.

10th October, 1925.

Without—a driving storm,
Leaves whirling at my feet:
Within—a quiet room

And a voice serene and sweet.

Signs of the Times

Christmas is coming
I know by the practising of hymns
By — door neighbours till my senses
reel,
The waitress as she lays my frugal

mea
Is “‘Hark the Herald Angels’’ gently
humming.
I know it because people talk of Peace
And keep on making rows that never
cease,
Christmas is coming.

Christmas is coming,
I know it by the pressure of exams,
By men’s unshaven chins and straggly
ties,
By rings that gather underneath my

eyes,
And nights of swot that heart and
brain are numbing.
I know it, for ‘‘Goodwill to men’’ is
rife
In theory, though ‘“‘plucking’’ causes
strife
Christmas is coming.

Cheerio!

Don’t be a Christmas
Graduate

 

The posting of the examination schedules in the college buildings has been met
with conflicting emotions by various members of the student body. Many conflicts
have been reported to the registrar, but
the greatest conflicts are yet to come,
Students who were never known to study
before are haunting the library and worrying people with questions. Old examination papers and the note-books of hardworking students are in great demand,
and the down-town fish stores report an
unprecedented sale of their brain food
to Pine Hill. The maid in the office at
Sheriff Hall can now spend many an hour
without ‘answering phoné calls. In short,
people are beginning to work. The University is assuming an air of seriousness,
and hard work is in evidence. At present
it would be hard to find a University where

} industry is more general, where reading is
| more fashionable, and where indolence
and ignorance are more desreputable.

The Christmas examinations are inevitable; I intimated as much in our first issue
of the year when I suggested that they
were not as far off as the millennium.
Prominent educationalists have, in the
past, suggested many and varied methods
of study which may be used to advantage;
yet with the student rests the final word
in the matter of study. The ancient wellknown custom of last minute plugging
may save the individual blessed with a
good memory, but it is without doubt a
treacherous refuge. Some writers think
that it is the vice of present day methods
of education that students are encouraged
to regard the road to learning as a recreation rather than a discipline. Others
war againt the compulsory lecture system and the futility of mass production,
of its inevitable glorification in the notebook and the quiz. Again there are those
who accuse the student of desultory
methods of studying and over-attention
to athletic arid social activities, while still

Fierce waves roar from the deep—
A wild discordant choir:

And a brooding voice croons low
To comfort my desire.

Without—frail blossoms grieve,
Strong trees cry in distress:
Within—a tender voice
Comrades my loneliness.

Loud winds beat on the door,
Rain tirls at the pin,

And on my soul a voice
Knocks low, and enters in.

NE, A. B:

it

mm)

'

1925

 

Pt
L

ET eee

ai

 
 

Five Cents The Copy

Shadows

I am told that the little leaden soldier
is the only person, anywhere, that knows
the whole story—the little leaden soldier with his flashing, black eyes and
his thin, firm lips. He is standing before
me as I write, his head erect, his musket
resting lightly on the epaulet of his
scarlet tunic. I have talked to him,
persuasively, pleadingly, and even with
command in my tones, until some passing
eavesdropper might have thought me
foolish or in my dotage. But whether
he cannot, or will not tell me, I really
do not know.

It was a cold winter night. The stars
twinkled happily on the glistening trees
and housetops, and the wind whistled
softly about the chimneys, as the wind
is wont to do. Now and then a listener
might have heard the crunch, crunch,
crunch, of rapid footsteps, becoming
gradually louder and louder, and then as
gradually fading away. But soon the
footsteps were heard less frequently and
the noises of the great city were lulled
into quiet, for it was very late, and
everybody, or almost everybody, was
sleeping.

In the house in which the little leaden
soldier lived, the lights had long been
dimmed, for they were very modest
folk there, and were now in slumberland.
The fading embers in the hearth and the
solemn old grandfather’s clock, that
stood majestically ticking in the corner,
seemed the only living things. But no,
there was another. One little tongue of
flame, bolder than the rest, shot up
suddenly and flared brightly, and there
on a chair by the fireside, his uniform
glittering in the flame’s glow, stood
the little leaden soldier.

He had been placed there many hours
before by the general himself, the dear
little general with his chubby little
hands, his sparkling blue eyes and curly,
golden locks. The little soldier was
lonely. His comrades were asleep in
their box below and it was very dark.
But the general had said that ali armies
must have sentinels to, guard them as
they slept and so he had been chosen.

He stood on a chair by the fireside.
It was one of those big, soft, upholstered
chairs and the sentinel stood very close
to the edge, so close that at times he
was afraid he might lose his balance and
fall over on to the brass fender below.
The little general had been very sleepy
that night when he placed his sentinel
on duty, and perhaps a trifle careless

too. But the soldier was brave and
steadfast, as a soldier should be, and
thought little of his danger. ,

As he stood at his post, motionless
throughout the long hours; he sometimes
wished that in the great factory, from
whence he had come, they had chosen
him for an officer, and painted tiny
golden stripes on his arm. But these
thoughts he banished as unworthy, and
stood gazing firmly ahead as fore.

Once he was suddenly aroused by a

mysterious, cracking noise that seemed
to come from nowhere, but it was just
one of those noises that come with the
night, and the littie soldier heard no
more. Later he was startled by a loud
clang which echoed in his ears. It was
repeated, and again he stood waiting
but all was silent. It was only the
grandfather's clock, its peals enhanced
by the silence of the night.
; The weary minutes dragged on, mounting one upon another, one upon another
until a whole hour had passed; and still
they kept on untiringly, one upon another. The little soldier was wearying
of his lonely vigil. He was very uncomfortable, there, on his dangerous perch
and he shuddered as another little tongue
of flame sprang up and glittered on the
fender, far below. His thoughts were
wandering jealously to his more fortunate
companions when a faint scratching
noise aroused him. It was a very tittle
noise, but a sentry must overlook nothing,
and he was again alert, his musket grasped
tightly in his able little hands. The
noise became louder and then softening,
faded away. Then came a_ creeping,
grating sound and the window rose slowly
in its casement. The little soldier almost
gasped with the strangeness of it all,
but he remained as firm and motionless
as ever. And now the window was open,
and a shadowy figure, the figure of a
man, climbed into the room, and, closing
the window, stood outlined against it,
Even the darkness could not hide the
symmetry of the figure, and the moon,
shining through the panes, revealed the
well cut features that the Intruder bore.
Again the little soldier suppressed a
gasp, for the handsome face was familiar
to him; he had seen it many times,

The Intruder had often come before,
but never like this, never at this time.
He had called in the evenings, always
gay and carefree. He used to talk and
play with the little general, and once
a

(Continued on page 2 column 4)

——————_—_—_—_—

others hold that the student wastes his
time in misdirected efforts.

Personally, I do not believe that the
majority of students can be justly accused
of sparing energy and time in making a
deliberate effort to learn. They work
diligently for hours copying notes, reading long assignments, writing essays and
attending lectures. No human being is
ever as busy as the student. But the
tragedy lies in the fact that their scholastic
results are so seldom commensurate with
their efforts.

Our professors are continually urging
us to use our own brains more and not
take their opinions as the truth, but apparently the most of us prefer to follow
the line of least resistence and learn only
what we are told: one thing is certain, we
can’t be plucked for believing what our
professors tell us. Of course the evils of
over-lecturing are obvious and positive
enough. Three lectures per diem given
at irregular hours both in the morning
and in the afternoon break up one’s
time overmuch and so tend to cause the
formation of divided .and_ desultory
habits of daily work. When compulsory
lectures are so frequent, the contents of
the lectures themselves accumulate

SO

 

rapidly that even the most careful and |

thorough student is compelled to make the
lectures the basis of his study and to confine his independent study to such small
parts of the subject as will best serve to
complete his lecture notes for examination

| purposes.

Be all that as it may, the fact remains
that with the advent of the Christmas
examinations the time has come when
there should be a general shake-down
and some definite views with regard to
study should be evolved from the maelstrom of restlessness and definite activity
into which many students are drawn during the first few months of the college year.
The majority of students come to college
from high schools, where the work was
done under supervision. In college they
must work on their own initiative, and if
they wish to succeed, they must come
here with a determination to work. Success is the reward for study and application and faithfulness to duty. The al
|umni records of any college show that the

race of life is not by any means always
won by the swifest nor the brightest, but
in abundant instances by the serious,
plodding student, who knows the worth
of an education, though he may notrise to
ahigh standard of intellectual attainment.

Now, then, ts the time to think over
what you have been doing, and if you find
that you have been remiss in your duty in
the past, rectify your habits, make up
for your wasted hours, determine to do
the right thing in the future, and all will
be well with you.

After all this may the holiday season
bring you pleasure and a respite from
work, which will enable you to carry on
in good ‘style through to the end of the
college year—and may there be no Christmas Graduates.

W. P.

 

 

   

EGBG EEG DESL RERE DERE NSA RT RS NERS DS DE SRT UE NER ES NS SARTRE RS ERT

| To All Its Readers Che Gasette extends its most cordial wishes
% for AQ Merry Christmas and Wrosperity throughout the Mew Pear.
RDO DE Fa Ie Oa Oe A I OA De OW DR De BW A OA BA A OA DOA De DR A OA OW De Ow BR BE BBR

ROR IL ES

 
   
 
 
  
  

 

  

Avis H. M

 

 

es Te a>?

 

Associate Editors:
Mary A. BeresFrorp, 26.

   

_ ¥ | ey ' ae
PAU ousie Gazette. Hae
Rounded 18 9) |
‘@ Baesn-Chigs,
ArtHur L. Murry, 26. 2

 

  

Ro Fie ei) avi WARREN PuBLICOVER, 26.
SS a ee ie Ra
fei ; Financial Editor:
CuasifFi MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
. . — - Phone $1961,
gern Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year. Bona
at atv

 
   

 

are Shy SESS

ir ae e

~
| irs

PAE Sey | iE : ;
f. nes +

re is a Santa Claus ©

singh 7 Hye ott fra.
y t=
A few days more and a whole term will have slipped into the past.

- It has been a pleasant term for most of us at Dalhousie but its closing

-S$¢ene will be a most strenuous and trying one.
We have lost the delightful credulity of childhood

, to be skeptical.

Youth tends strongly

and we have not yet reached that depth of understanding which can
regard rornance and fiction as among the great realities of life. Such
“tinpleasant and practical things as examinations serve only as a

. stimulous to this skepticism which enshrouds us.

We complete our

‘jJabors and as the Christmas Season approaches we find that we are
weary, listless, and without enthusiasm, and we miss the happiness
“which might and should be ours, and even worse, the joy of others

‘the strain and gladly too.

_- may be lessened because if us. So, this year, let us rest our weary
_ brains by leaving to our hearts all surplus efforts.

They will stand

Let us all, as Christmas comes, simply remember that there is a

Santa Claus.

ae
4

He exists just as surely as love and generosity exist
and he may be as great and as kind as we wish to make him. Only a
_ few years ago, when Christmas came even as it does now we had no

doubts. On the night before Christmas most obediently we clambered

“up to beds at an early hour.

And there we lay with throbbing hearts

and radiant eyes wishing devoutly for the Sandman to come and
_ quickly while away the hours of darkness, while at the same time our
eager brains a maze of hopes and speculations, refused to be subject

to his charms.

Then as the eerie hour of midnight approached and

we still lay restlessly turning and twisting and drowsiness began to
-confuse phantasy and reality we heard a vague noise coming from

somewhere.
in the silence.

Perhaps it was a silver sleigh bell tinkling indistinctly
Possibly a faint, shuffling noise on the roof or the

‘weakening echo of a jovial laugh. Then we snuggled down more
comfortably, repressed the desire of rushing forth to the wonderland
awaiting us, and whispered contentedly to our pillow that he had come.
We no longer hear the dainty chime of the sleigh bells, nor the echo
- of the fading, hearty laugh, for it is only the ears of the faithful child
hood that are pure and keen enough to hear.

But he comes just the

- game as he has always done, dear, kind, old man, and it is our duty

and our pleasure to help him in his yearly task.

It is a wide, wide

“wotld, you know, for one small man to cover in one short night.
' There are so many sooty chimneys, so many empty stockings, that

-he really needs our aid.
»can Tefuse.

It is such a delightful duty that none of us
We are told that it is more blessed to give than to receive

and it takes very little commonsense and even less logic to realize

that virtue is the only big way to true happiness.

A very kind lady

“who died but recently and whom we call Mrs. Santa Claus was wont
‘to say when reproached by her friends for her extreme generosity,
-“T am really very selfish, since it gives me such a real pleasure to see

“my. friends happy.”

if we would all cultivate and propagate such selfishness?

So, come, would not this earth be a better one

Let us for

this one day forget so material a thing as economy, disregard reality
and reason, and place our small horde of gold at the disposal of our

hearts.

Our conscience will not trouble us in the least and we will

‘bé radiant with the happiness which makes the old gentleman him
‘self, the most lovable person in the whole world.

Then, as the hour

of midnight again draws near, and the many chimes joyfully commemorate the coming of our Saviour, and the air has resumed its
-wintry calm, perchance, if we have been very, very good, and if we
listen very carefully, we just may hear the ever present, ever fading

echo of that cherry jovial laugh.

 

W. J. Leahy’s
Gift

Judge

Judge W. 1: Leahy, Judge of the District
Court at errobert, Saskatchewan, is
.a graduate of the Dalhousie Law School
pred In the summer of 1924 Judge
hy revisited his Alma Mater and
attended the Dalhousie Reunion. At
_that time he intimated his intention of
making a gift to the Law School and subsequently he sent a cheque for $100 to
be used in the interests of the Law School.
“Since then plans have been forniulated
for the use of this money. Dean Read
been in correspondence with members

ot the Faculty of Law at Laval University,
uebec, in order to arrange for the visit

is year of an eminent member of the
Que Bar to give a short course of
ectures on the legal institutions of the
Province of Quebec. While the plans for
iS Course are not yet settled in detail it

is expected that it will be conducted during the month of March and that it will
involve three or four lectures to the stuoe the Law School and one public
> to all the members of the University. Judge Leahy's gift has made this
2 possible because it will assist in
vering the expenses incidental to this

   
    

4

Alumni News to Edit Memorial Issue in Honor

of Dean Weldon

Shortly after Christmas the Dalhousie
Alumni News will publish a memorial
number to commemorate Dr. Richard
Weldon, former dean of the Dalhousie
Law School and but lately deceased.
The issue will consist of an account of
Dr. Weldon during his undergraduate
days, the great work he did for his college,
and the tributes of his many friends.

It was the intention of The Gazette to
edit a special paper as a tribute to Dr.
Weldon. However, owing to the fact
that it is very difficult for students of
today to do justice to a man who has not
been connected with the university for
eleven years it was thought advisable to
bestow the honorable task on our more
worthy, senior, contemporaries.

A PICTURE.

About the world each severai year
Old stormy Winter goes,
And wraps within his ermine cloak
The lily and the rose;
And violets and Daffodils
And all the flowers fair,
He covers all, and warms them from
The chilly chafing air.

W. B. R.

   

| Phil.- 11: Greek..4..¢.<..,

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
Christmas Examinations
(1925-1926. =

fa ‘
. _

 

ARTS, SCIENCE, MEDICINE,
ENGINEERING, DENTISTRY,
MUSIC.

To be held at Studley.

t. Dec. 12— —————
Last day of lecttres in classés in
which examinations are held:

 

we 7

Tues. Dec. $a ~
-.9.00-11.00-—Chem.

a Ce

2,.2A; Bib. Lit.

11.15-1.15—French 2; Commerce 9:

 

Bacteriology. .

3,00-5.00—English 1, 9: Philv 13:
Physies 15. a ae
Wed. Dec. 16.— *

9.00-11.00—Latin 1, 2;
Cpemrmerce Bes 5. hy hoy .

11.15-1.15—Elem. Germ.; Engl, 10;
Econ. 6, 113 Phil.3; Physics 3;.Chem. 6}
Commerce 4;-Biol, 1A.; Anat. 1, 2,

3.00-5.00—Germ. 1; Engl. 8; Hist.
8; Phil. 7; Geol. 2; Math. 4.

Physics 13;

Thurs. Dec. 17,— .

9,00-11.00—Elem: Greek; Greek 1;
Hist. 2; Phil. 8; Physics 1; Chem. 4;
Geol. 1; Surveying.

11.15-1.15—History 1; Biochémistry

‘1, 2; Med. Jurisp.; Hist. 5.

'” 3.00-5.00—Greek 2; Phil. 10; Phys.
6, 20; Chem. 1, 1A; Elem. Chem. Mech.
3; Commerce. 6.

Dec. 18.—
9.00-11.00—French TI,
Physiol 1, 2: Radiology.

11.15-1.15—German 2; Hist. 6; Government 5; Phil. 1; Zoology 3; Botany 3;
Commerce 1; Draw. 1, IB; English 1A;
Geol, 3.

3.00-5.00—Archaeology; Span. 1;
Government 1; Phil. 2; Draw. 2; History
1A.

Fri. aS
5; Histology:

Sat. Dec. 19.—
9.00-11.00—Elem. Latin;
French 10; Span. 2; Econ. 5;
Geol. 10; Mech. 5: Chem. 5.
11.15-1.15—Span. 10; Econ. 12; Govyernment 6; Biol. 1; Music 2: Embryology:
Therapeutics: Hygiene.
3.00-5.00—Economics 1.

Latin 4;
Math. 2;

Mon. Dec. 21.— ‘
9,.00-11.00—Prac. Materia Medica:
Pharmacology: Psychiatry; French 4;

Engl. 3; Ecom: 4; Government 3;
11.15-1.15—Math. 1, 1C, 3;

merce’ 2; Phys. 14; Hist. 2A.
3.00-5.00—Elem. French; Engl. 2,

5; Math. 7; Physics 2, 4; Mech. 4.

Com
Tuesday, December, 22nd.—
Christmas Vacation begins.

FACULTY OF LAWS
To be held at Forrest Building.
Saturday, Dec. 12.—

Last day of lectures in classes in
which examinations are held.

Wednesday, December 16th.
9.00-12.00—Conflicts.

3.00-5.00—Property I.
Property II.

Thursday, December 17th.—
9.00-11.00—Banks & Banking.

Constitutional Law.
3.00-5.00——Torts.
Friday, December 18th.—
2.30-5.30—Crimes.
Corporations & Partner
ship.
Procedure II.

Saturday, December 19th.—
3.00-6.00—Contracts I.
Bankruptcy.
Evidence.

Monday, December 21st.—

9.00-12.00—History of English Law.
Agency.

Practical Statutes.

Tuesday, December, 22nd.—

Christmas Vacation begins.

 

INSPIRATION

A light-shines.on our way:

We see a great man, and we hear his
words;

They call an answer from within

Our life is joy today!

Tomorrow dawns, and we forget
The nobler life we'd planned, our daily

course
Runs on the same, our deeds unchanged,
Our plan a vision yet.

Why don’t we follow it?
Our minds have given consent, our souls

should too,—
We fear the rough road, cowards all,—
O help us follow it!

I. 342;

.
ee Ieee ee
—_—_—_———

 

 

- +

   

# king of

December 10, 1925

 

CIGARETTES

 
   

15 per pkt.

29 for 39°

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufactared b

Imperial Tebacca Co of Canada, Limited.

  
     

 

SHADOWS

(Continued from page /,)

he had picked up the little soldier, admired his scarlet tunic and praised his
martial bearing. Later somebody else
would arrive.._.The soldier thought this
newcomer must be a sister, or something,
of his general's, because she had the

isame laughing blue eyes and the same

| golden locks.
|toddle off to bed and leave them alone,

The little general

but the soldier never knew what happened
after that, for he too, was sent to slumberland. This man here now! The sentinel
could only wait, and watch, and wonder.

The Intruder carefully drew the shutters across the windows, and taking a
torch from his pocket, trod lightly across
the room. Coming to the desk that
stood in the corner, he paused and began
hastily to go through the papers that
covered its surface, his nimble fingers

rapidly disclosing all, yet disturbing none. |

The little soldier was terribly perplexed.
He felt that this was not all as it should
be. But he was very fond of the Intruder
and felt sure that he would do nothing
wrong.

Above the rustlings a half suppressed
exclamation now and then reached his
ears. It could not be right he decided.
It was his duty to—but how, ah how
indeed could a little fellow like him
prevent it. He was a brave little soldier,
as I have said before, and it grieved him
to think of his impotence. He thought
and thought, he searched in vain for
an idea, he became more and more
excited. Yet outwardly he appeared as
cool and determined as before.

Then through the haze of bewilderment
came an inspiration, an inspifation which
caused the little soldier to pause, irresolute. From his lofty perch he peered down
into the darkness, The last embers of the
fire had now died; but he knew that somewhere at the bottom of that darkness lav
the great brass fender. He was a verv
gallant little soldier and he did not pause
for long.

“It is the only chance,”

thought he,
“and my duty calls me.”

So he toppled over into the abyss and
with a’ loud clanging sound struck the
fender, far, far, below. A flashing brightness came before him, and fading away
he knew no more. The Intruder started
violently and flashed his light across the
room. He had not reckoned with the
little leaden soldier.

The circle of light pranced unsteadily
about the room, pausing here, pausing
there, and flitting on again. But it disclosed nothing that was not as it should
be, for the Intruder was much too nervous
and worried to notice so little a thing as
a leaden soldier. The grandfather's clock
ticked on as majestically and as regularly
as before. The light ceased its prancing
and had settled down once more upon the
desk, the Intruder was about to resume
his work when he was again aroused by a
light tread of footsteps on the stairs.

For a moment he stood there transfixed
mechanically counting the footsteps as

would |

 

i
}

 

|
|
:

 

they came more and more clearly to his
ears—four, five, six—ten, eleven—He
eame quickly out of his reverie and flashing off the torch, slipped silently to this
knees. His: hand sought his pocket,
which took on an ugly, bulky, pointed
form; and he waited in the darkness.

 

Eighteen, nineteen, twenty—the footsteps assumed an air of finatity as the
last step was passed and increasing their
pace they stole across the hall. The Intruder scarcely dared breathe. A cold
perspiration covered his brow and _ his
cap pressed clammily against his forehead. He. had not deemed it necessary
to remove it on.this call. His muscles
became tense and. the hand that was in
the pocket stirred. slightly, as the footsteps,- crossing the. hall, paused on the
threshold. A switch snapped, and the
great parlor lamp (with its shade so much

the color of the little. soldier’s tunic)
bathed the room in a red glow.. Two
gasps arose, almost simultaneously. One

a deep, guttural gasp, and the other of a

higher, sweeter pitch, but both with
agony in their tones.

In the doorway stood a Vision, a
Vision draped in white silks, a Vision

with curly, golden locks about her shoulders, and large blue eyes. The white
silks rustled as the Vision stood there.
and the gread red lamp transformed their
folds to rose. If you are one of the more
fortunate mortals on this earth you have
probably seen such beautiful silken creations as the Vision wore. Their originator called them negligees, I believe.
because he neglected to give them anv
design and thought only of their beauty.
But the Intruder noticed it scarcely at
all as he rose slowly to his feet. The
protrudence disappeared from his pocket
and an unwilling hand slowly drew the
cap from his head. His chin sank to his
breast and his eyes fell.

For a moment they remained thus.
Then she slowly approached him and the
large blue eyes sparkled, not with laughter, but with glistening tears.

“You"—she whispered, her voice breaking off in a sob, ‘“‘You—what are you
doing here?” ,

But he said not a word, and the little
soldier, recovering from his fall, wondered if it were really the great red lamp
that made the Intruder’s face so crimson.

The Vision brushed the giistening teardrops from her eyes and her voice trembled
“Look at” “me,” She pleaded, ‘‘answer
me.” But he neither moved no spoke.

The Vision seemed to change then, the
tears disappeared, her voice no longer
trembled and it seemed more cool and
distant than before. ‘Then I am to
presume that you are a common thief,
here to steal from my father and from
me—you whom [ loved, whom I—”

He looked up then and his face was
no longer crimson, but a ghastly pale,
not nice to look upon, and a strange light
shone in his eyes. The pleasant, lazily
laughing intonations that the little soldier
remembered were gone from his voice, and
he spoke in cruel, rasping tones.

(Continued on page 3 column 1)

 

 
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 

] um or Play a ,
lnotthen =.
than Coty’s or Colgates,

 

a ee Woe Po > et) EAWOMELL, ©
in. ' =

ey, Anson, Pollock, Beavue

ipdley | ee taoMnnee.
‘Thayer, Odgers, Blackstone, Snell,

ADS
els

iat

-*
at

“Cail me thief if you wish,” he said,

‘Who will believe that it is only justice
T seek, a justice that lawyers and judges
cannot wield.” He hurried 6n, his words

rapid, more incoherent:

‘your father stole—"’ The Vision started,
t be

‘paid no heed. “He imposed upon me—
“your father—he said that he was my
2 elp me along.
‘He lied to me, great black lies, and he
“took the money i had saved for—for us.
“He promised to double it, even treble it,
and I, fool that I was, dreaming of the

it to him. And now he has lied again,
—he- has--lest— it: —‘It is - very
| unfortunate,’ he says, ‘but—' Well Iam
going to have my money. It is mine, I
‘tell you; and I’m-going far away from
here. There I will spend it and enjoy
it will be afraid fo, sat you
ya

to tell?” she
her words were very cold
of. “The law will not a
of ‘oem erime, your guilt
B have said that gi Macy
by “tually laughed. But it
wwas not the Se caren at all.: “You
nave said that you would do anything to
ae me happy.” Se ety i t
aa ee
affected calm was besieged with
nflicting emotions. Grief,

~ But her

‘a mass | = CO} ae sf
inge ity, indignation, and the sorrow
at comes with shattered ideals all were
mingled. Her composure vanished and
rat) Mee volbe. broke and caught over the
simplest words, words that even the little
general could pronounce: without stumb
_ *T have given you all that I held
‘sacred. I have given you my love, the
greatest thing that a woman can give.

i it was happy, cherishing the belief that

-—-¥ou were worthy of it, that you would
honor it and protect it, and now, now I

gee you as you are, a weakling and a
 ¢goward, destitute of principles and |

ing even a sense of honor. You have

 
  
 
 
  

wr that is what the world will call me. |

“|found nothing. Coming back to

    
  

 
   

| A unique and rare treat was offered by
the students at the University of Toronto,
on the same night. Namely: “Les Honnetes Femmes,” by Henry ue; and
“La Comtesse d’Escarbagnas,"’ by Mol
‘| iere.

Recently McGill students put on three
plays in the same evening:
"The Dark Lady of the Sonnets,” by
Bernard Shaw;
“The Man in the Stalls," by Alfred

Saat Aah
“Atl Garhoded. Up, iby Francis ibble.

The University of British Columbia at.
couver are presenting for their Christ
an
ee entertairiment four éne-act plays:
“The Second Shepherd's Play.”

‘“The Man Who Married a Dumb Wife,”

by Anotole France: e
“The Luck Piece,’ by Percival Wylde.

<

Baring.

   
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
 

much louder than before. The Vision

ran quickly towards it and opening the
little door disclosed the pendulum majes
tically swinging to and fro.
“Could you

she asked.

case I fancy I'll simply ‘have to.”’

gained a miniite, even,/as long as T can
remember, wassilent. (| ¢

Two policemen stood outside the door,
men with a martial bearing that nearly
equalled that of the little soldier.

“Pardon me, Miss,” said one as the

i we should have, gave) Vision opened the door, “for rousing you}

at this hour, but I saw a man enter your
house.”

The Vision uttered an exclamation of
horror and glanced over her shoulder
apprehensively. :

“Oh, don't be frightened, Miss, everything’ll be all right now,” said the limb
of the law summoning his most soothing
tones, for the Vision looked very pretty,
and very much in need of his manly
presence, pid xu, oo)
> “He came‘in through the front window
and I ran off to get help so that we'd
be sure to nab him, There are two
guards. outside: and. we would. like to
search the house, please!” a

“Why certainly,” exclaimed the terrified young lady. “‘But he is not upstairs,
for I have lain awake for hours and heard
not a sound. And please,” she added
“be yery quiet, if you can, for my mother
is ill and [I do not wish to have her disturbed.

“Most certainly, fair lady,"’ replied the
visitor, as throwing his chest well out,
and making suré that his follower was
behind him, he entered the room. So
chivalrous a role pleased him well, as
long as there were no unpleasant developments.

“Hum-m, evidently nothing here,” he
said, and receiving his hostess’ permission
he wandered through drawing room,
dining room, kitchen and cellar. Even
the pantry was not immune to his penetrating glance, yet, strange to relate, z
the
m again he rubbed his ponderous chin

_ trampled upon my gift, laughed at it,| with his hand. He was deep in thought

   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

. ue ‘me for protection, you ask mé to: show

have none for you. -I will be your accuser,
| i: to think, when you are behind prison
bars, you will regret and repent.”

he was silent. The tittle soldier looked
had not done his duty.

the little soldier looked on in wonder,
_ the door. The Vision started and look

no more than did the little soldier.
_ “What shall I do?” she whispered.
_ Go,” he replied slowly and motioned
_ towards the door with his hand, though
his eyes were downcast as before, ‘“The
‘police are the only ones who knock on
ple’s doors at this hour. I passed a
he. It is very convenient for you,” he
t_ she
‘Quick, you must hide!” she said.
th lice,’’ he repeated, ‘‘Why
ould I hide?”’
r eyes again filled with tears,
d her pretty, little foot in rage.
” she said, and seized his arm.

Ture.
aot

/ “But where can I hide?”

designer of the room had not
been very accommodating to bur
and perhaps when you have more leisure | purglar might have left while her

nan as I came here, it is probably’ quired the newcomer,

ige 1 ile played about | amazement. SS
aa Porcine ar mise *Milady,” and his hair was carefully groomed. Stil,

thrown it in my face; and now you ask|}.4 even this proved to be of no avail.

“Strange, Miss; very strange,’’ mut
you mercy! Yes, you are a fool as well.) tere the great man, ‘we found nothing
a 1 will show you no mercy; I cannot; I} 4¢ aij.”

The Vision coyly suggested that the
faithful
guardian was summoning aid, but his
reply was a mere scowl, clearly showing

_ . She gazed on him contemptuously and | that he considered this highly probable.

“I wonder—”" he mused. Ah, the

ir and almost wished that he| great mind was working now and he
Then while the | massaged the chin vigorously.
two figures stood silently before one} if any one could hide in that clock,” and
another in the great lamp’s glow, and|he took a step towards it.

“T wonder

“Oh, Mr. Policeman, don’t be foolish,”

there came a gentle tap, tap, tapping at | teased the Vision as she stood in his path,

but her words seemed rather forced and

_ askance at the Intruder, but he moved| the little laugh which accompanied them

was not at all natural.

“T don't know—"' he said, and stepped
around her. But before he could open
the door he was interrupted by a new
arrival on the scene.

‘What's the trouble, gentlemen,” inand the Vision
looking up cried ‘‘Daddy.” She did not
know whether to feel relieved or not at

heeded his last words not a|his appearance; at least it would delay

for a few minutes. . .. .
“I saw a man enter your house, Sir,
through the window, Sir,” explained the

and she policeman ‘

Daddy interrupted him with a hearty
laugh and the Vision looked at him in
He was about half dressed

her keen eyes could see that the great
god of sleep had but lately embraced him.

Controlling his merriment with diffi
d the only exit was the door to|culty he spoke” The fact is, gentlemen,”

 
  
 
 
 
  

. The tap,
and paused in dismay.
rs cloc

,

for it ticked ever so|didn't have my latch key.

tap, tapping was}(I have been told that hes are alin di It| ways introduced with that phrase) “I
the little leaden soldier, then,| arrived home rather late tonight, just a
spened to the| little while ago, and discovered that I

So,"’ and he

 

       

- “The Fatal Rubber,” by Maurice

possibly get in there?’’

- “Under ordinary cireurnstances, I could
not possibly,” he repuied, “but oy ae
becom ing o he
“T have init bontight to take only what | squeezed inside mas oe — door hee
‘is min ri ich | Shut with a click. 1¢ Vision regaine
See rig 8 ee a her composure in an instant and softly.

co ealieed o rth but approached the door, while the grandhe silks rustled back and forth but he fither’s cide which. had not, lost “or

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sie eee

Dont

ee

———

   

he next few days,

Libraries within the d
_ |or the Library at Studley you will see
¢,|a very ordinary little box with a slot

at the top. ety re ok At} i
It is placed there by The Evening
Echo Christmas Fund and The Good
— Club of the Evening Mail, to

out Santa’ Claus.
your contribution in at once.
The cause is y and your duty
a pleasant one. Possibly you had
better go back and reinforce that
contribution with another.

you to hel

Don’t forget it!
In the Library.

 

37 ie /% ¢ Se “2 .
laughed again, “I broke into my own

house.”
The guardians of the law gave vent to
a chorus of “‘ohs” and then, to be polite,
kept Daddy tompany in a hearty laugh,

the Vision joining in gleefully.
“I'm very sorry to have troubled you,
gentlemen, “he said when the laugh had

subsided. ‘Have a cigar, yes my own
brand—take a couple—no that’s all right,

don’t mention it. I'm delighted to know
that we have such an efficient force in
the city, gives me a feeling of security,"
and walking discreetly to the door he
ushered them out with a cheery ‘Good
morning”’.

The Vision watched him with an air
of complete bewilderment as he turned
from the door. For a moment an expression of understanding and sympathy
appeared in his eyes.

“I am going to bed now, my dear,
please see that Old Grandfather 1s going
again before you come upstairs," and he
softly mounted the steps.

_ The Vision wandered thoughtfully back
into the room. There was another click,

| as before, the little door opened and closed

again, the pendulum commenced to swing
to and fro; Old Grandfather again ticked
forth the seconds, which, growing into
minutes mounted one upon another.

I had forgotten to tell you that in this
wonderful room there was also a chesterfield, a great big soft one. And on it the
Vision and the Intruder were seated while
the lamp cast its rosy glow upon them.
But even the little leaden soldier does not
know what happened after that, for the
excitement was all over, his duty done,
and he thought that having left his post
and being very, very sleepy, he might
wander off to Dreamland’ for a while,
which he did. And indeed he did: not
miss very much, for such things are not
at all meant for little soldiers.

‘The Grandfather's clock ticked on and
on until the great bright sun appeared,
unaware of the strange happenings he
had missed. Mother came down stairs,
looking much too well for an invalid, then
Daddy, and finally the little General and
the Vision, fresh and radiant after her
night’s rest. It was after they had finished breakfast and entered the room
that Mother noticed the catastrophe.

“Why,’’ she exclaimed, ‘I believe our
grandfather's clock is slow.”

There was a rapid consulting of time
pieces. Old Grandfather was eighteen
minutes slow!

“This is unprecedented,” cried Daddy.

“Something very strange must have
happened,’ said the Vision, while the
little General said nothing at all. He was
not interested in clocks or in time, and
besides, poor little fellow, he had troubles
of hisown. His sentinel, the most reliable
little soldier in the whole army had
deserted his post.

He scolded and scolded, and condemned
the offending one to solitary confinement.
The little leaden soldier longed to teil
all that had happened, he longed to be

praised for the brave deed he had done. |

But he knew that it was his duty to keep
silent. So he said not a word, but stood
brave and steadfast as before.

—'A Work of Art”’

Dalhousie Students

You can save considerable, and

dollars in some cases, by buying

college supplies at our store—
such as

Pencils
Loose Leaf Note Books Fountain Pens

Loose Leaf Refills Index Supplies
Drawing Paper Ete.

Frank M. O'Neill & Co. Ltd.

152 GRANVILLE STREET

Bound Note Books

 

  

————————

WINNERS From The

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help ou play the game with
the best t's in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX N..S.

  

         
       
       
    

   
 

ee ——

u enter the Medical or Law| Examination Weeks

 

Students rushing in, up the aisles and
veen the rows, in a jostling crowd—

‘Students wasting five precious minutes

hunting for their “doses’’—freshmen wasting another five minwutéS reading the
examination ruies—sthirking professors
passing up and down, exulting in the hopeless anxiety on their .vietims’ faces—
flushed freshette roasting beside a steaming radiator, timidly asking for an opened
window—stamping af many “feet as
professor opens wifttdow—students who
think Baroko is a’new brand of cigar or
depilatory—students wasting more time
scribbling hieroglyphics on their question
papers—students who know everything
and are much afraid they won’t have
enough time to get enough down to show
the Prof. that they do—students who
are absolutely .at sea and who are equally
afraid there won't be enough time for
them to write enough to convince the
Prof. that they are masters of their subject—the first bell and one hour, gone—
renewed scraping of chairs, rumpling of
tossied locks and feverish. gripping of
pens for the last half—students who think,
Mythra is a perfume—students peering
at chairs for place to put completed efforts
—students wondering how the H—1 they
can get Xmas presents for Ma, Pa, kid
brothers, Uncle Al, Aunt Sophie, and the
“only girl’ with $6.87 in the bank—
student wondering how many pairs of
sik stockings she will get—students
thinking of the sensation he will create
when he returns after the holidays with
a moustache on his upper lip—rews thin
out—"THE EXAMINATION: WILL
CLOSE IN 15 MINUTES’'—frenzied
acceleration in fountain pens—students
scribbling “‘no time to finish’’ and tackling
one untouched question—two parting
blots—“‘please hand in your papers’*—
students getting up with sudden determination to end their struggle in resigned
despair—the confused babel of triumphant or remorseful voices wafted from the
basement to the deserted battlefield,
where satisfied professors gather in their
harvests.
P.

F,. C.

Dental Society Notes

 

A ‘short business meeting was held at
noon on Saturday, with President: Dobson
in the chair. Mr. Henry Godsoe was
appointed manager of the faculty Hockey
Team. A few matters of routine were
then passed upon.

Dean Thomson appeared and was
warmly welcomed. This was his first
appearance before the~ Society since his
recent serious illness. He expressed him-'|
self as being very pleased to meet the
members of the Society, especially those
of the First Year. In regard to having
some new books placed in the Library,
Dr. Thomson said the Library Committee
were at the present time preparing a list of
the yolumes which they hope to obtain
inthe near future. The Doctor asked that
that each member regard him as a personal
friend and bring to him any matters
which they would like to discuss

Oe

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

A Complete

Musical Service
INSTRUMENTS

OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

A Full Line of the Best Classical,_ Standard and Popular

.f

SONGS

PHINNEYS Limited

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

$2.00
Ungar’sCleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

Forget It | Gymnasium Forecast for From The Mail Bag

To [the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir: | :

I find from your, ‘Mail Bag" of last
week that “TOLL” is labouririg tinder an
illusion.. True, the phone has disappeared
from the gymnasium, but if “TOLL”
thinks he can obtain permission'td,usé the
one in the University’ Office by ‘merely
asking for it he certainly has another
think coming. I tried it the other day,
and was told that except in very urgent
cases students could not’ use the phone.
[ would have been seriously inconventenced had-not the cobbler on—Coburg
Road been courteous enough to allow me
the use of the phone in his shop.

_dlowever, they told me in the University Office that the phone in the gym
“didn’t pay,” and they enquired of me
what students wanted to use a phone for
anyway.

I thank you,
“TOLLER.”

To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette

Dear Sir:

May I enter a kick too? During my
brief career at Dalhousie I have on several
occasions felt provoked at the rough
usage given to books of the Library.
Personally I can see no reason why the
readers should find it necessary to underline the important parts in each paragraph.
It certainly adds to the inconvenience of
others, who must read after them. Another
habit equally odious in my opinion is that
of bracketing the outstanding paragraphs.
This gives the book a most disorderly
appearance, as one scans its pages, and
cannot fail to arouse a greater repulsion
in one who finds the book difficult enough
at any time. There are other ways in
which the books have been maltreated,
such as drawing pictures in the margins,
and passing witty remarks, which, though
amusing enough no doubt to those concerned in the writing, lack flavour to a
later peruser of the volume. Is it necessary to mention that the users of loaned
books ought not to turn down page corners?

I don’t suppose Miss Lowe: gives, in
her department, a lecture on the care of a
book, and probably the reason is that she
fears that it would offend university men
and women to suggest that they lack the
knowledge taught in 5th grade classes.
But it seems to me that just such a course
would not be amiss at Dalhousie to-day,
for the sake of a library to which we are
fortunate to have access.

“A Lover of Books.”

SUCCESS |

“Tf I but had what others have,

Their money, means, and ways.

My. name would grace the halls of fame,
I'd win immortal praise.”’

O fool! . That thus doth sit and mope,
And waste his precious prime,—

That dower which God has given Him,
The richest gift of time.

Stand up and struggle with the world;
Fight strongly, brave and true;
And weaith and riches, praise and fame
Will all_beiong to you!

W. B. R.

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harr Curiine is sure
satisfy. Lapres’ Harr Currtine in all
styles; also Curtinc, SHAmPoOoING and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

41 Sackville St.

924.00

Suit or
Over Coat

Best value

Phone S 4780

 

 

in Canada.

See the many advantages

we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your

clothes.
Clayton & Sons
HALIFAX

|
|
to your measure.

  

 
 

 

   

Clothes Seen at the Colleges
SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHINGS

TO PLEASE THE COLLEGE MAN

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 
       
     
   

 

Hockey Team
Shapes Up

Manager Joe MacManus and Con
Upham had their first squads out again
on Saturday afternoon when Mr. Sterling
put them Grouch a stiff workout. There
were about twenty going through their
paces but surely with 700 students to draw
from there should be more than a mere
twenty. The men this year appear very
light, but with consistent practice should
be able to put up a very stiff opposition
in the League. However the team, as
well as can be judged at such an early
date and basing that judgment on the
players’ performances last year, should be
a creditable one. Wilson this year’s
captain is at defence with Lewis in goal.
But the place left vacant by Allen Dunlop
will be hard to fill. Ernst might do it
but he is not yet sure whether he will be
able to play. Creighton and Bates will
be out, and it is doubtful if Monte Haslam
will be on skates this year. So there are
four vacancies on the team this year with
Ernst and Coleman, if they can play, the
only standbys. However, some of the
newcomers appear to be able to bolster
up the team if their prowess as hockey
Pore is as good off paper ason. N.R.

addington was with the Junior Toronto
Varsity, and has a wicked shot. F. D.
Durvernt was with Digby High School
last year who were runners-up for the
Provincia! Championship. He is a short,

‘stocky little fellow of the t that is
often very effective. Rumour has it that
Allen MacLean will polish up his blades
this year. He played with Toronto
Varsity a few years ago but didn’t turn
out for hockey last year. However, he
made the Basketball Team, butas there 1s

material for this year’s team it is
hoped that we will see the best
men on the hockey team.
George Langstroth who turned in some
very good hockey in last year’s second
team is another prospect. A good fast
man, but rather inclined to “hog” the
puck. Taylor and Sangster are both
rather light but were the pick oflast year’s
second team. The former is a good
steady man, but rather slow while, the
latter appears lacking in staying powers.
If he would forget himself and turn to and
get in shape he would make a fast though
somewhat light spare. But it is the
second team, that is causing the wrinkles

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

December 10, 1925

 

WOMAN

The night was dark, the wind was cold.
She shivered, then drew her coat more
closely about her. Her teeth chattered.
Did he heed this? He, the only man on
the square, looked neither to right or to
left—completely ignoring her. You ask
—how could he be so inhuman? She was
waiting for the Belt Line Car and he was
the Burns’ Statue.

Our Sporting
Professors

2. Prof. George Wilson.

   
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
    
     
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
   

 

It is well known among all the students
that Prof. George Wilson of the History
Department, is an athlete, but definite
information about his athletic career is
very hard to obtain. Theachievements
of Mr. Mercer, which were recorded in
the first article of this series, are so well
known to all Nova Scotia tennis fans,
that much information about him was
readily obtained from several sources,
but to acquire any knowledge of Prof.
Wilson’s career it was necessary to attempt to interview the gentleman himself—and collecting such information
from the modest professor of history is
analagous to the extraction of an unweildy tooth. After much _ tactful
questioning and from inquiries in other
fields the following facts were obtained.

A native of Perth, Ontario, Prof. Wilson
seems to have been of athletic proportions
since childhood. It has been discovered
that for several years he was captain of
his high school football team, which won
the county championship.

‘’Tinker.”’

 

to form on “Pecker'’ MacManus’ worthy
brow. For both he and Upham realize
that Dai will next year have to build up
practically a new team and it will be to
the second team that next year’s managers
will have to turn for material. So consequently it will receive this year more
care than ever before. It is a pity that
some of the good players seen in Interfaculty games seem to think it beneath
their dignity to turn out for Second Team,
but if they are told that Lewis will be the
only man left next year, perhaps then they
will play and help out their college.
Beaton 1s the only candidate for second
team goal as Moore is not playing this
year. Outside of those already mentioned
as first team possibilities, there are no
outstanding players for the second team.
So anyone turning out has a wonderful
chance to make the team this year and a
better one of making first next year.
Of course by the time this gets in print
it will be almost too late for further Gym
work, but if the weather gets cold enough
there will be several ice practices and the
team picked then will make the trip during the holidays. Anybody can spare
an hour for one of these, so watch the
notice boards and if the weather is good
turn out anybody and everybody who
has ever played hockey before or who can
only skate for that matter. Remember
that unlike Poets, Hockey players are
made not born.

THE MANAGER

Joe “Pecker’’ MacManus (Law ‘27)
who is this year’s Hockey manager has
been managing hockey teams for the
last five years. Starting as the High
School manager at St. F. X. he looked
after the Freshmen and Soph Class
teams and in his last two years was First
team manager. So there is a wealth of
experience behind the Management which
should not be long in producing results.

THE CAPTAIN

After leaving school Mr. Wilson went
to Queens University and during his
freshman year he seems to have been
becomingly modest and retiring, for he
did not even try for the football team.
The next year, however, somebody discovered him and put him on the team,
where he played for three years.

While at college Mr. Wilson's favourite
sport seems to have been wrestling, and
he was wrestling champion of Queens for
three years.

At Dalhousie Mr. Wilson plays on the
Dalhousie Professors Volley Ball team,
where he is one of the most valued players.

It is really remarkable how reticent
the professors have become lately regarding their athletic prowess, and even their
tastes in that direction. It was learned
with pleasure that Prof. H. L. Stewart,
the well known head of the Department
of Philosophy is an excellent croquet
player, and it_is rumoured—though the
rumour may be unfounded—that Prof.
C, L. Bennett was once marble champion
of New Zealand.

Majestic Notes

 

At The Casino

BARBARA LA MARR IN HER BEST) For the whole of this week the Majestic

ROLE. is presenting the film version of George
Eliot’s famous book, ‘‘Romola.”’ Beautiful
Lillian Gish plays the leading role while
her more carefree sister, Dorothy, also
takes a prominent part. The story is a
famous one and Miss Gish, ably supported
by a strong cast, gives a wonderfully
powerful exhibition of her talent. The
play is a blend of pathos, romance and
thrills, which gives Miss Gish full scope
to display her piquant charms as well as
her great acting ability.

On December 2lst, when examinations
have drawn to a close, Sir John Martin
Harvey will open an engagement of one
week. Monday and Tuesday he will
play “The Corsican Brothers.” ‘David
Warwick”’ will be his offering on Wednesday, while on Friday and Saturday he
will present “The Only Way.” (The
stage version of “‘A Tale of Two Cities’),
Sir John Martin Harvey is known the
world over as a really great actor and he
is supported by a very taiented cast.
Present yourself with a Christmas gift
of lasting merit by procuring tickets for
the Majestic during the week of the
twenty-first.

Filming of the screen version of John
Galsworthy’s ‘“‘The White Monkey,” a
pene starring Barbara La Marr, has
yeen completed. The strong cast appearing in support of Miss La Marr includes
Thomas Holding, George Marion, Charles
Emmett Mack, Flora Le Breton, Henry
Victor, Tammany Young and Colin
Campbell. The photoplay, said to be
perhaps the best vehicle yet given Miss
La Marr, was directed by Phil Rosen,
whose direction of “Abraham Lincoln”
is one of the memorable achievements of
screen history.

“The White Monkey” will be shown
at the Casino on Monday and Tuesday

Captain of. Dalhousie
Football Team

The ‘Truro News” in mentioning the
appointment of Mr. Hugh ‘Kelly’ MacLean, fourth year medical student, as
Captain of the Dalhousie Football Team
of 1925-26, also mentions with pride the
names of three other Truro medical students who have piloted Dalhousie’s Tigers
to victory in days gone bye. They are:
Dr. Seymour McKenzie, Dr. Joe McKay,
and Dr. Lyall Cock.

 

When in Town

GET THE

Three Essentials

1. Pure Food and Candy

ALPHA BETA al abet, koe — -~ rompt and Courteous

learn the music from «a Music Dealer's Text Book. Service
It starts like this: 3. Low Prices

AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. Gee. Alexander

 

Ambherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

Cable Address: “McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Souicirors &c.

HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K. C. wW.Cc.M E
Stuart Jenks, K.’ C. P. B.A, Chinma’ a
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. E. MacKay

SSeS:

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR

FICTION. LENDING SOCIETY

 

 

 

Roy “Nutty” Wilson (Law '26) who
is the captain has played at Dal for two
years, and was rated as one of the best
defence men in the City League last year.
Two men like MacManus and Wilson
go a long way towards making a winning
team.

Suppose Tomorrow
Were Christmas

Oh boys, what a mad rush.

Christmas cards to be sent.

the family and the best girl to be

bought and a thousand other things

t é

But Christmas is a little way off so
t t. }

Do Sad biviog at ‘Snes while ‘you MONTE IS OUT OF THE GAME

think of it. We've got everything.

  
  
   
   

Monte Hasiam has definitely decided
not to play hockey this year. Monte
managed to spare an odd hour on Saturday afternoons to play in most of the
football games but was seldom if ever
able to get out to a practice. He realizes
however that to play hockey will require
far more time than he can possibly spare,
for in addition to being in the Hospital
he is working hard to get his Degree this
vear,so it would be utterly impossible
for him to play hockey let alone turn out
to the many practices that are necessary
for a hockey player.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
HALIFAX

Dalhousians Sports

Goods Depot

Agents and Distributors of the

famous SWIPER HOCKEY

STICK. Special discounts to
clubs.

MacDonald Hardware Co.
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE
Y. M.C. A. Bldg.

Optometrist & Optician

Students, Please Take Notice-
that we carry a full stock of Pens and Pencils, including the products of Waterman, Parker and Wahl Pens and Eversharps, and
that we maintain a SERVICE STATION where we give prompt
and accurate service on repairs and replacements. We also carry a
full stock of goods for Gl SEEKERS—the choicest products of
the best factories in many lines. BUY HERE FOR CHRISTMAS.

COOLEY BROS.

Jewelers

395 BARRINGTON STREET

GRANVILLE STREET

HIGH
CLASS

FAIRLY

JEWELRY pricep
H. C. HENDERSON

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville

 

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don't NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

George F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
QF EVERY DESCRIPTION
—ALso—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

Men’s GLOVES

of the better quality, “Dent’s,”
“Perrin’s,” “Acme” and other
standard makes. Leathers
which are SERVICEABLE,
Goop Firtine, Sty isn.

$1.50 to $6.50

KELLYS

LIMITED

 

         
 

}
|

    
 
     
 
       
         
   
     
      

393 Barrington St.

 

   

|
|
|

 

“STOP FLIRTING” |

 

2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

ASINO

C

 

NEXT WEEK
MONDAY, TUESDAY |
Barbara La Marr

“THE WHITE MONKEY”

WEDNESDAY. THURSDAY
Dorothy Mackaill and John

Bowers

HALIFAX

 

FRIDAY, SATURDAY
ALL STAR CAST

——.

 

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers ona Potted Plants

We make up Funerar Desicns,
also Weppinc Bouguers. We
also do Tarre Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

|
| Cleaning Clothes and
_ Pressing Them is
A Real Science
| Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
Shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which
clothes,

revives your

 

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers
a ae

 

Dalhousie Students

| GET YOUR

' STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
| CONFECTIONERY

! SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
| CIGARS and CIGARETTES

| Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

 

 
