 

is *
;.

~~

 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
 
  

an): a
| aes

“Alberta have

p

 

MT

   

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER,

Literary Criticism

 

wee they come! Me se ~~
Papers, Magazines, and Scripts of a
Bee end shapes, a veritable deluge of

college publications, has assailed the
Exchan: Zz Editor during the past week.

is of particular

However, the paper that
“Western

interest to Dalhousians is the
Gazette.”
is very much like
Dalhousie, both in size and faculties. Out
there they have a total registration of
about eight hundred students, four hundred of whom attend the college of Arts.
Dalhousie runs a clcse parallel. A very
noticeable short-coming throughout the
whole of their ten-page paper 1s the want of
Editorials. Indeed, most of the space ts
taken up with reports of athletics and
other student activities. But the eye of
the critic is alwavs on the look-out for
merit, and from the “Western Gazette”
come two meritorious suggestions which
are passed along for the betterment of
college life at Dalhousie. The first, for
the women students, is for Arts '26 girls to
invite the Freshettes on a hike, thereby
forming an otherwise almost impossible
acquaintance between Seniors and the
girls of the Freshman class. The second
is an account of the Faculty’s reception for
newcomers. The Freshman Advisor system, which we have here at Dalhousie,
helps in a small way to further an acquaintance between student and faculty, but it
does not produce the same familiarity
as would a reception where new students
became guests of the professors and their
wives. _ ,

St. Francis Xavier’s University, with
scarcely over two hundred students, publishes a weekly paper of exactly the same
size as the Dalhousie Gazette. Now,
mathematically speaking, Dalhouse with
over seven hundred students, from whom
it is no more than reasonable to expect
support, should publish a larger and better
paper than it is circulating at present. The
average student can contribute, and is
assured that his material will be favorably

rec ved and gi y Th careful consideration
by the editor. Think it over, Dalhous
    
    
 
 

ee. ee a ee hn
. students of the University of
certainly appointed able

hands to the office of editing their large
six-page weekly, “The Gateway.” From

first to last there can be found nothing of
an inferior quality; the editorials are of a
very high standard, and although bootblacking still seems popular around inttiation time, the write-ups of Freshman
initiations are in the best literary style.
“The Gateway” is a serious paper, and
aims at stimulating an intelligent interest
in student activities and university
administrations by presenting a definite
policy through its editorial columns on
all questions of interest to the student
body, at the same time inviting comment
from those whose views do not coincide
“with those propounded by “The Gateway”
itself. This will help to create amore

 

In Conference

,

 

_ Upon the station platform at Wolfville,

in the Annapolis Valley, stepped a Dal
housie student, Wolfville, on the shores

of the basin of Minas, is the prettiest town

in the province. So, at least, “the stu? 2

# ie:
-“Byery beauty spot,” he once explained,
“seems to me the most beautiful that 1
have seen.” Wolfville he saw for a week

‘With him were others—Acadians, Dalhhousians, U. N. Beings, in Conference.

Women and men students considering the

_ problems which most concern those who
are young and who think, One young

      
 
 

yoman, who is a secretary for the Student
'e iristian Movement in the West, ordered
one or two of the most serious.

- #4 man or woman must first work out
this or her attitude toward life,” she said,
as in what walk he or she can best

serve, and finally choose a partner.”
; +4 The 1

  
  
 
  
     
    
    
  
 

rence contributed much to
ware the solution of “the student’s” prob
5. And greatly to many needs, one
y—individual development: beau‘ul surroundings and happy seriousness
e friendship, through which character
iality grow. Blosscm time in
ley, days spent in the ' ‘
jous discussion never out of place—
student’? made friends whom he
was but lately that he had realiz
i name no one whom he both
ew and didn’t like. Another
the use of Christian names—
; known—one boy par
—

€

    

The reason for this is that
Western Universi

_ = ————— >
x at ee EEE

unified university spirit. lt is a paper
which seems to realize that interesting
news items do not constitute the whole
purpose of publication, but that it should
be a medium of exchange for ideas that
are current topics for student discussicn.
In the words of Dr. MacMechan, “the
University is a Clearing-house of Ideas,”
therefore, let the college paper be instrumental in furthering this work of clarifying.
The University, of Alberta has installed
in their Convocation Hall a fourteen
thousand dollar organ as a War Memorial.
Of course it is unfortunate that we at
Dalhousie have no Convocation Hall in
which such a monument could be placed,
but it is almost increditable to think that
no attempt whatever has been made tc
perpetuate the memory of Dalhousians
who fell in the Great War. “The Gatewav’ also speaks with pride of its Handhook, which is passed out to all students;
how does this compare with Dalhousie?
“The Varsity” comes from Toronto
University five times per week, and a
capital paver it is too. Just at present,
however, they are very interested in politics: but on the whole the paper affords
much pleasure to the outside reader. The
address to which they send the paper, is
“Dalhousie University, Dalhousie, N. 8.”
Prof. Bennett has procured for the use
of those students: taking the class in
modern drama, an admirable little magazine called “Drama,” which is the journal
of The British Drama League, of which
Mr. H. Granville-Barker is Chairman of
the Council. The magazine, published in
London, discusses only the best plays,
whether cld or new, which are being presented on the stage at the present time.
It gives a detailed account of the activities
of various Producing Societies and Dramatic Schocls throughout England. One
article is entitled “The Ibsen Legend,”
in which Mr. G. Gordon Young makes a
stirring appeal for a more frequent appearance of Ibsen’s plays, which have perceptibly fallen off simply because dramatic
societies, both amateur and professional
have been es much scared of them as the
ordinary playgoer, As Mr. Young explains, Ibsen “demands an attentiveness
and sympathy from his hearers such as
most playgoers are not accustomed to
bring to the theatre.” Now, anyone
who has availed themselves of the opportunity of reading Ibsen, will admit that
his plays are by no means “dull,” therefore, just es Shakespeare can be made
interesting and vital to quite ordinary
audiences, so too can lhsen be made popular. 1 do not think it would be too
great an undertaking for our own Glee
and Dramatic Club here at Dalhousie, if
thev are planning a public performance
by Dalhousie students, as 1 sincerely hope
they are, to put on an Ibsen play. There
is a vital dramatic element in Ibsen as well
as in Shaw, and John Tanner should not
be more popular than Hjalmar Ekdal.

WwW. P.

To such friends each morning “the student” awoke. With them to Matins: out
on the hill perhaps—on the Ridge with
the river below. Back to the college for
breakfast where appetites were dulled and
upon a run and fire of conversation—there
was song and yell—wits were sharpened.
Then to his discussion group. With a
leader, a varied composition, a blossom
canopy to inspire them, the group talked
frankly together—nothing, was _ sacreligious. Here particularly the Conferites
disclosed their thoughts. /

Rapidly friendship grew. Everything
contributed to it—picnics, walks, tennis,
swimming, talks by men and women of
experience. And else. Than to wander
with a friend in the ccol of the evening.
green turf underfoot, blossoming branches
overhead, an occasional petal fluttering
down, there is nothing more complete.

Return to Vespers. Perhaps they gathered “in Tully’s cozy sitting-room” as
one great family about an open fire. Or
outdoors. A sing-song, hymns, a few
words and a moment of thought. A solo—
swaying in the moonlight, silhouetted
against the stars,. the singer’s voice in
harmony with the evening—inexpressibly
great! And prayers.

“To say the truth,” later in a midnight
discussion another boy told “the student,”
“senerally 1 haven’t any use for prayer.
But here—well, it’s different. There is
nothing so conducive to thought as silence
—silent prayer. _ And you others—l feel
your presence. Perhaps a low voice leads

our thought. It’s an education!”
Anditis. The nucleus of a study group

formed that same midnight and to be car
‘ried out this year at Dal, included ‘‘the

student’’, who will attend aJl future Conferences possible—without fail.

How is the writer so sure?
He ie “the student.”

 

What is this soul of mine?
Why was it given me?

I wonder if God knew
What I would be,

When He brought to being
On this earth,

One of my little worth.

What am I in this maze of life
That God has chosen me,

The bearer of a soul

That will everlasting be?

W. J. M. '29.

 

Ancient Relics

 

I wonder how many students know that
Dalhousie possesses two dozen clay jugs
of various shapes, none of them very large,
that have been valued by experts at over
five thousand dollars? From the third
floor of the Library Building,‘a short flight
of stairs leads up to a closed door. If you
ask for the key and pass through you will
find yourself in a very nicely appointed
little museum, There are beautiful
mounts of birds, and models of ships, and
various miscellaneous things of interest,
but the cabinet of pre Inca pottery is undoubtedly the most outstanding collection
in the room.

Mr. W. B. Taylor not very long ago
presented this collection to the University
in the name of his father Mr. William Bell
Taylor '84. The vessels are of curious
construction, and seem to be representations of animals, or religious symbols,
some being figures of gods. On some of
the jars there is an artistic color pattern,
various shades of red and buff colored
clay, as well as some slate colored elements,
having been used in their construction.
One vessei represents a tiger-like animal
of red clay with cream-colored clay stripes.
Another seems to symbolize the sacrifice
of a child to a god, representing a child
being crushed under the feet of the idol.
Still another is a hideous-looking figure
with something like a human body and a
bear-like face. In addition to the jars
there are several implements of various
kinds.

This fine collection, which is in a beautiful state of preservation, was exhibited
for over a year before coming to Dalhousie,
at the Metropolitan Museum in New York
where it attracted much attention. Experts say that it is from seven hundred |
to two thousand years old, having been |
captured by the Incas from one of the Per- |
uvuan Coastal. tribes many hundreds of
years before the first Spaniard set foot in
South America. Most of the units of the
collection were taken from the ancient
Temple of the Sun, near the old Inca City
of Chau Chau, Peru. It is certainly a
matter of pride for all Dalhousians that
our University should possess this fine
archaeological collection.

a

'

Charles G. D. Roberts, during his recent visit to Halifax, was requested to
write a few words for the Gazette. As he
was very pressed for time he excused himself saying that he wrote very slowly and
carefully and never did a thing off hand
since it wouldn’t be his best and that he
would not give anything less than his best.

Think this over before handing in your
next contribution.

A Geological Love Song

(To be sung at 2.30 p. m. on Fridays.)

O come with me, Geology
Extends fair invitations
O come my belle for Tosh will tell
Of wonderful formations.
But no formation’s half so fair
As thy form’s every section
¢xplanation hath not marred
An inch of thy complexion.

O thou shalt hear of Atmosphere,
And of the thermal blanket

How once was land where seas expand
And how the earthquakes sank it.

He'll tell thee of the Lithosphere
Of gaseous beginnings

But all props of the contenants
Can't match thy underpinnings.

So dearie dip and strike with me,
We'll easily overtake them,

On an erratic we shall perch,
Erratic as they make them.

Come bask upon a bedding plain
And praise the pretty striae,

If thou wilt follow science path
My crystal face, I'll try thee.

29th,

| saying.

    

pmo,

1925

   
    

ae
tity

A )

     

 

Five Cents The Copy

The Old Grad Returns

“‘1t is, Sir, as 1 have said, a small college,
and yet there are these who love it,” said
Daniel Webster in his famous speech in
the Dartmouth College case. One would
hardly think of calling Dalhousie a “little
College” to-day. She numbers her admirers and her loyal friends by the thousands; but among them all there is, ] firmly
believe, no more devoted adherent than |
Knight—Jcseph Hampton Knight, Arts |
92,

And that’s curious, too, for only a few
years ago he weuld have denied that he

had more than the slightest interest in the

 

place.
Probably you have never heard of|
Knight. His friends in the Alumni would

|
not recognize him by that name. In
spite of his wealth he is a modest chap and
some of the facts about him may have become a little twisted in this story; otherwise, 1 fear he might not keep his promise
to visit us again in the near future, and he
is looking forward to that with keen anticipation.

Queer thing how a man can get separated from his college. Joe Knight played
football for Dalhousie in the old days; he
was an editer of the Gazette; and he was
Class President one year.

But immediately after graduaticn, he
accepted a job in Montreal, then in a few
years went West, and in the absorbing
process cf growing up with the country, |
Joe just about forgot that there was such |
a place as Dalhousie. When he began)
getting into the news he had returned to}
Montreal with a comfortable little nite, |
which grew steadily under shrewd manage- |
ment.

Then one day a letter came to one of his
old professors. ‘“Here’s my youngster,”
he wrete, ‘wants to be a lawyer and says
that Dalhousie is the only place. 1 den’t
want to hurt your feelings, but 1’m a bit
surprised to find that the best law firm in
the city backs him up. Tell me honestly
what you think.”

He was told. He was also told that
Dalhousie graduates have been making
a name for themselves in their post-graduate work at the largest Universities on
the Continent and on other continents—
how one of them is doing cutstainding
research concerning the dramatic customs
of Shakespeare’s time; and how another
recent graduate has been appointed toa
very promising position under the Council
of the League of Nations. And finally he
was invited to come down and see for himself just what was being done at the Uni
versity in an educational way.

Joe didn’t come just then but he sent
his boy, and the lad never regretted it.

When he came back after his vacation to |

enter his senior year, Joe came with him.
He was a little shamefaced about it too.
“Tl had a little business deal on down this
way, so 1 thought l’d run in and see you,”
was the way he greeted one of his old
classmates, now a member of the Faculty.
And then they were off on “do-you-remembers” which were only broken off
when the boy came round to take Joe out
to meet some of his friends. They made
a bit of a fuss over him and his eyes were
twinkling when they finally started for
dinner. “A nice lot of kids,’ he was
‘‘] guess you didn’t make a mistake in coming here, son.”’

The first thing, of course, was to go
Professor of

better now than to write a theme about the
Province House and quote me as saying
it was designed by Adam?”

Joe’s astonished guffaw was good to
hear. “Why, Sir, the idea of your remembering that freshman trick. You
certainly haven’t forgotten me. You see,”
he explained, “you said that the Province
House was Adams’ architecture and 1
made a slight error. This certainly wipes
away the years with a bang. I’ve often
thought about you, Docter, and wondered
why you stayed here. You must have
had plenty of fine offers.”

The man whose labors have been instrumental in gaining a recognition for
Canadian Literature, reached to a bookshelf and took down a volume. ‘That’s
the reason, Joe,”” he said. Joe took the
book and looked at it. It was “The Life
of a Little College.”

“Perhaps you would like to look at
some of the buildings, Dad,” said the boy
as they stepped out from the remembrance
of the old days. “So 1 would, boy,” said
Jce, and he looked about him. The
Library and Science buildings were there,
and there was also another. ‘That one
doesn’t seem quite in harmony,” said Joe,
as he pointed to the Gymnasium. His
boy explained to him how the Gymnasium
was a temporary structure, pending the
raising of funds for a new edifice to be
erected as a memorial to Dalhousie’s
overseas heroes.

The trio proceeded down to the Medical
Buildings, but Joe was  pre-occupied.
“A new gymnasium,” he was muttering
to himself. “They want a new Gymnasium to commemorate Dalhousie’s fallen
heroes,”’

“This is the new Public Health Building, were the words that brought him
out of his meditations. “There is nothing
to exactly parallel it on the continent. It
is a monument to Dalhousie’s progress in
the Medical world.”

Nothing seemed to bore Joe. Nothing
seemed too small for his notice. He
patiently probed for facts and classified
them, from the little fltes in the Biology
Department to. the gold fillings being
hammered in by the student dentists.
Joe might have been buying the place and
figuring what return he would get on his
investment. Perhaps he was, too—in a
way.

When the time came for Joe to leave,
he handed to his friend of the Faculty a
slip of paper. It was a cheque for twentyfive thcusand dellars and it bore the name
of Joseph Hamptcn Knight. It was inscribed “‘For the Memorial Gymnasium.”

But we hadn’t heard the last of Joe
yet. When Dalhousie’s debaters went
up to Montreal to contest with McGill,
it was Joe who appeatred, fairly draped in
black and gold and nearly making the roof
fall with his ccllege yell. And it was he
who tock the victorious gladiators to his
mansion after the debate and entertained
them in royal style.

It wasn’t so very long after that that
the Faculty friend received another letter
from Joe. “They say I acted like an
undergraduate,’ he said, “I got into an
argument with some alumni of other col| leges and backed them off the map. You
|may multiply that cheque by four if you
like,” and a green slip fluttered to the

 

 

over and see the veteran : "
English. There was only an instant’s | Professor's desk. “Here’s to old Dalpause for recognition, and then, ‘Well | houste, God bless her!
Joe,” he said, “1 suppose you know} R.H

Sonnet I. To Cupid | DATE OF PUBLICATION

CHANGED.
| Owing to the fact that ereat

Ah subtle Cupid, thou who dost imbue | - e

The chillest hearts with love,

sweet
Who hast some magic balm with which
to treat

Torn wounded hearts and mould them
firm and true

Who ever canst with gold tipp’d darts subdue

Stern Nature’s laws, and in thy way discreet

So pierce two hearts that e’en as one they
beat,

Thus granting life and hope and joy anew.

Dear boy have pity, take my lonesome
heart

And wandering o’er this world, o’er land
and sea

Employ with zealous skill thy noble art;

Somewhere beneath these skies there
needs must be

A fairer, sweeter, dearer counterpart,

H. A. D. | Go, search, and finding bring it back to me.

serene and |

| difficulty is experienced in turning
|out the paper on Wednesday morn‘ing, and since the Editors wish to
| give the paper to the students on a
definite date it 1s thought advisable
to delay publication for one day.
The Gazette will, then, appear at
the College between the hours of
9 a. m. and 11 a. m. every Thursday morning.

 

Dr. Blois Babkin escaped from the Bolsheviks and out of Russia with great
difficulty after the Revolution.

 

The current issue of the Dalhousie calendar is in error when it states that Merle
Perry Colpitt is an Instructor in Physies.
ato

ete

a

a

 

Page Two

 

“The Dalhousie @asette,”

(Founded 1869)
Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpny, 26.

Associate Editors:

Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
Avis H. Marswatt, 27.
Ronatp Hayes, 26.

Warren Pusiicover, 26.

Financial Editor:

Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

- Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

‘*The Old Order Changeth’’

With the opening of college year comes the passing of a glorious
old custom from Dalhousie. We are told by those whose college life
is long past that their first and last days as students linger most fondly
in their memories. Linger because they are most impressive and symbolic even in their extreme difference. For many years past the new
students of Dalhousie have been promptly subdued by the superior
forces of their upper classmen. It was clearly and forcibly shown to
them that they were Freshmen, while at the same time, they were
given an opportunity to display their own prowess and stand on an equal
basis with their opponents, as college students.

 

 

This year the initiation was conducted quite differently. The
Freshmen were instructed to appear at the Gymnasium on a certain
evening. This they did, quite peacefully, and like little lambs being
led to slaughter. allowed themselves to be blindfolded and in some
cases bound. The Sophomores then proceeded to make perfect fools
of them. All having fully qualified for their dunce caps they were
freed and allowed to mingle, on equal terms, with their persecutors.

An initiation, what ever form it assumes, should be impressive.
In years to come will the Class of '29 look back on this evening’s per
formance as one befitting their entrance to Dalhousie? We think not.

There is no real boy or man, with fresh healthy blood coursing
through his veins, who does not thrill at the prospect of a good fight.
It is true that last year the initiation was carried out too roughly and
while the casualties were not nearly as heavy as our sport toll, yet this
could be avoided.

After careful consideration and numerous enquiries among the
students we request the Senate to reconsider its prohibitory edict before another year approaches.

We should suggest that the Sophomores be allowed to overpower
their younger classmen by physical force, at an appointed time and a
suitable place. Such a combat took place in 1923 when the Class of
‘26 initiated “27 at the “Battle of Studley Campus.” After a hard
fight the Freshmen were overcome and paraded through the streets of
_ Halifax as captors. There no casualties of evena minor nature. The
grassy campus provided an ideal battle ground and there was absolutely no hard feeling between the rival factions.

An initiation of this type is impressive. Ask any Class ‘26 or ’27
man. He will tell you that no matter how the Future may deal with
him, it will always remain one of the most memorable occasions of his
life. We suggest that in addition to this, the Freshmen might bear
some insignia of their humble positions. A verdant bow or armlet,
while rather trite, is at least better than nothing at all. The McGill
freshmen in addition to wearing green, are obliged to salute their superiors by placing the tip of the index finger on the top of the head and
uttering a meek, but audible, ‘‘Tweet-tweet.”” If such a rule can be
inforced at McGill, a university having, each year, almost one thousand Freshmen, there should be no difficulty in executing it at Dalhousie.

Regarding this year’s initiation, the general impression seems to be
that it was not impressive, neither morally nor physically. The Freshmen, playing the fool for a few hours, were not, in reality, vanquished.
They were not shown that, while Dalhousie students, they were the
least of Dalhousie students, and so must remain for one year. There
- 1s even a case on record in the recent initiation, of one Freshman, being mistaken for a Sophomore and actually assisting in the initiation
of his fellow-classmen! Again, it is not at all fair to the new students
of Kings, gaily bedecked in whatever the Sophomores may choose,
to be looked at and laughed at by the “‘gentlemen’’ Freshmen of Dalhousie.

So we strongly urge that in years to come the old custom properly
modified, will be returned to us, as it is the only way in which subjugation can be united with a firm bond of good fellowship which
should exist among all Dalhousians.

S

 

   

 

A Complete

Musical Service
INSTRUMENTS

  

“FIT-U”
Overcoats and Suits
Sold in Halifax City
ONLY AT
Gordon Isnor’s
69 Gottingen St.

     
  
   
 
 
 
 
  

 
  
  

————————LS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

  
   

A Full Line of the Best Classical,
Standard and Popular
SONGS

PHINNEYS Limited

     
    
 

$$

not Dalhousie? W
nineteen twenty six?

i me ethical ssiinientaanith ag!

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The Plaint of A NonPolitician

Ensueth now a time of brag and bluster,

Of meetings, of conventions and of woe

Where every Candidate bravely devises
Methods of coping with the latest crises

And always telis us that he told us so

Spouting at second-hand what falsehoods

he can muster.

Hon=7able Mr. Drivel and Honorable Mr.

Slick

Are with us as of yore, and in their train
Ten thousand types of babbling politician

To make one sigh for Nero or Domitian

To bring their hemlock and their axe again,

The while we pray, ‘‘Get in; but oh,
Good Lord, be quick.
’

Amateur rhetoric of the modern school,

Imbecile

lies,

Speeches
iions,—

These are the joys of federai elections:

Let me retire with bandages o’er my eyes
And in my hearing organs plentiful cotton

wool.

 

  

Dalhousie Students

You can save considerable, and
dollars in some cases, by buying
college supplies at our store—
such as

Bound Note Books
Loose Leaf Note Books
Loose Leaf Refills
Drawing Paper

  

   

Pencils
Fountain Pens
Index Supplies
Etc.

Frank M. O'Neill & Co. Ltd. |

Commercial Stationers |

152 GRANVILLE STREET

 

   

|

    

Class Jewellery

Do not send out of
town for your class

PINS or RINGS

We can compete on quantity
TRY OUR SERVICE

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

HALIFAX

From The Mail
Bas
To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

Sir:—

During the past few weeks attention
has been directed to the plan of issuing
a Dalhousie “Year Book”’ to take the place
of the Graduation Number of the Gazette.
This Year Book would be a larger and
more attractive publication than the Gazette and it would contain a complete
chronicle of all student activities of the
year, in addition to the histories and criticisms of the graduating classes, by whom
it would be edited in co-operation with
several members of the regular Gazette
staff.

The Year Book would be similar to
those issued by other colleges and, of
course, its primary appeal is to the senior
classes, to whose members it would be
a valuable memento of their college years.
If present plans materialize there will be a
picture of each graduate in addition to
the usual “puzzles” at present carried in
the Gazette.

The question now arises, what will it
cost? At present no definite estimate
can be made but a maximum figure would
be three dollars. The council has unofficially expressed its willingness to give
financial aid and the remainder of the
cost would be met by the sale of the book.

There are various reasons why this plan
should be more fully developed and carried
into effect. In the first place, the Gazette is too small to adaquately give an
account of the year’s events in the University. Dalhousie has increased in size
while the Gazette has long since stopped
its growth and indeed seems to be well
on the way to senile decay. The graduation numbers for the last few years c®mpare quite unfavorably with those of fifteen
or more years ago. This is not due to
any fault of the various editors of the Gazette, indeed, have often dortie surprisingly well with the limited financial and personal support they have received. The
Gazette of to-day attempts to record the
various activities of a much increased
student body in as few or even fewer pages
than the Gazette of twelve years ago. It
can’t be done and results have shown this.

Something must be done and the time
isnow. This problem deserves the serious
consideration of every student in the University of success is to be achieved. Other
colleges—some much smaller than Dal.—
produce creditable Year Books. Why
Why not the classes of

M.

jargon, meaningless catchwords,

and more speeches in ail direc
 

SES

   
      
     
     
    
    
  

 

 

 

ES

To the Editor,

Dear Sir:—

Will you or one of your readers (student
or professor) help me out in a little problem that tonight is worrying my brain?

The other evening after “Othello” at
the Majestic a Dal student remarked,
“Gee! that was awful piffle, a ‘‘movie”’ has
it beaten to a frazzle."”. The man with him
guffawed derisively and the two accompanying co-eds stared in a superior sort
of way (I think they take English 9), and
one said to the other, ‘‘Isn’t he awful!’
And undoubtedly the Professors present
had they heard, would have raised their
erudite eyebrows in pious horror and
groaned, “Is
have to teach? Is this the sorry product
of our teaching?”

Now, Sir, why is it that because a man
expresses such an opinion he should be
regarded as a “philistine,” as an ‘“‘impossible person” in learned circles? Why
must a man pretend to like Shakespeare
when he prefers Harold Lloyd; why is he
expected to consider “Sartor Resartus”
by Thomas Carlyle greater than ‘Nomads of the Night’”’ by Gaston Leroux?

You can't say it’s because of the energy
expended in the writing. It was very
likely as easy for Carlyle to write the one
as for Leroux to write the other, and
Harold Lloyd probably sweats more over
his job than Shakespeare ever did over
his. If you judge by cash values you can
see that Lloyd and Leroux win easily.
And if you judge by the numbers of. admirers, then Carlyle and Shakespeare
come in a poor second.

And yet because a few Professors and
“Highbrows” have deemed it the correct
thing to smile-on the Carlyle stuff and
frown on what they consider beneath
them the Dal student has to pretend to
like the same sort of stuff or be regarded
as possessing no critical taste. I myself,
have suffered in the same way. I horrified a member of Latin five by saying I
didn’t like Horace, that he was a humbug. I like Vergil, especially. when he
talks about his farm and his bees—I feel
he reaily enjoys them; but Horace sounds
so artificial, he always strikes me as speaking with his tongue in his cheek. And-I
have a notion | didn’t get the mark I ex
Dalhousie Gazette.

| pected in History one, because I said Gib| bon was a self-complacent coxcomb and
that the fact that he rewrote his Auto-|

biography six times and didn’t even bother
to correct the proof of his History showed
that he himself didn’t think very much of
his History

Now I don’t pretend to know much
about it but isn't it possible the ‘‘Highbrows” are wrong sometimes. Once upon

}a time a man said the world was round,

but for thousands of years the ‘‘Highbrows" had asserted it was flat so the poor
man suffered, yet to-day even College
Professors say the world is‘round. Fifty

thousand years hence what will they say |
}of Carlyle and of Leroux?

Who knows?
And so, Sir, I should like to have this
straightened out.

I‘irst, isn’t it better to have honest
opinions of one’s own than to adopt opinions one doesn’t believe in, no matter by
whom propounded? Second, how does
one judge between Carlyle and Leroux?
In the ancient world at different times an
enormous number of books were destroyed
by so-called wise men. Why? Was it
the Carlyles or the Lloyds who survived
and how is one to tell? Someone says,
“A poet is born, a critic is self-made.”
Isn't any criticism merely personal prejudice? If that be so why must we all
let the critics lead us by the nose, or perish in their withering scorn? I
my card.. I am etc.,

enclose

Freedom.

 

To the Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.
Sif:—

| should like to express an cpinion on
the Freshie-Soph. debate contrary to that
of the judges.

The standard of eloquence on both sides |
of |

 

was about even—a large number
sentences ani ideas left in the air, but on
the whole the debaters showed promise.

But assuredly the number of cheeky and
insclent remarks made by the Freshmen
both cn the Sophomores and older men
in general, proved that the gentler methods
of hazing used this year have not “tamed
or humbled” the Freshmen if they chose
their speakers as representative of their
views.

The idea cf hazing is nct to maltreat as
this year’s Freshmen seem to think, but
to see that Freshmen stay where they
belong, namely on the lowest rung of the
ladder up which one climbs step by step
to the final year.

lf the Freshmen actually feel towards
the Sophomores the insolent attitude of
Friday night, then goodness knows what
their attitude to Professcrs, Presidents
and to the world at large will be by the
time they leave Dalhousie. 1t does a man
good no matter his age or status, to treat
his seniors with respect. This year’s
hazing has not taught the Freshmen that
lesson. That was evident from the
debate.

] am, ete.,

EVOLUTION,

 
 
 
 
  

     
     
  
 
 

 

October 29, 1925

‘Dental Society Notes

The first meeting of the Dalhousie Dental Society for 1925-1928 was held on Octoher 3rd. The President, Mr. J. W.
Dobson was in the chair. The minutes
of the last meeting were read and adopted.

The following were appointed to take
charge of the various sports:
Foot-ball—Don Smith.

Track Team—Purvis Millar.
Basket -Ball—J. W. Dobson.

Following this was considered the mat
 

this the sort of person we |

 

ter of adopting a suitable pin for the Society; to be used instead of a distinct pin
for each class.

The Society feel that the Dental Library is seriously lacking in up-to-date
text books. Accordingly Messrs. Dobson
Barrett, Millar, Taylor and Griffin were
appointed to interview President MacKenzie and Dean Thompson with a view
to having modern texts on the various
subjects placed in the Library. The
students will await with keen interest the

result of this interview.

Miss MacDonald and Mr. Tupper were
appointed as Glee Club representatives.

OB: K.

 

Delta Gamma

A well-rounded college career! Of what
does it consist? This was what the
freshettes wanted to know and a reply was
given in a very vivid manner by their upper class-mates on Saturday evening, Oct.
17th, 1925.

In a spirited dialogue, the Sophomores
showed those freshettes, assembled at
Shirreff Hall for the annual initiation,
that sport was a very vital thing for the
college girl. The various branches of
sport were portrayed so alluringly that it

| would require a lot of consideration to

choose just one or two. Then the Juniors
by means of pantomine, women and song,
endeavored to prove that the social life
in College must not be ignored. They
had no difficulty in proving their case
because all the Freshettes were in love
with the social life anyway. An almost
unheard-of “‘library scene’ was staged by
the Seniors who actually tried to make
everybody believe that the intellectual
side of college life was essential. A frivolous freshette was marvellously transformed in one act, into a sort of weird personality, that is, she got an A for her
theme.

After the initiation ceremony the freshettes, while still slightly confused as to
what it was all about, were seized by their
sympathizing friends, and the dance went
on. The girls were unanimous in their
hearty appreciation of the kindness of
Mrs. Barnstead who was their hostess for
the evening. .

A. M.,

Troia Fuit

| Forgotten all the weary strife of day:

Lulled by the drowsy murmur of the sea,
"he city sleeps, under a full-orbed moon.

"he balmy night-wind sighs adown the

streets—
lhe long white streets that shimmer
neath the moon.

Deserted lie the battlements and bare,
Save where some sentinel keeps eager
watch
O’er sleeping plains and silent, starlit sea.
The air is heavy with the scent of flowers,

 

STUDENTS

Consult SIGHT
H.W.Cameron si";
Cor, Sackville and Barrington Sts. Phone Sack. 2728 for Appointment

And land and sea are tranquil as the tomb,

When suddenly the silence of the night

Is shattered by a cry, “The Greeks! The
Greeks!”’

Canora.

Don’t Envy a Good

Appearance |

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always

five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harr Curtine is sure
to satisfy. Lapies’ Hair¥Currine in all
styles; also Curtinc, SHAMPOOING and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

Phone S 4780 41 Sackville St.

 

    
   
   
  

Guard YOUR SIGHT

  

 
  
  
  

 

 
 
 

  

successfully and creditably
Charlotta Johnson acted the part

Camberley, war bride of Dennis
| at Roderick McLeod), while
Cyril Norwood completing the “‘trie” was played by Mr. Peter Elliston.

“
7

    
    
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
    
  
   
  
  
   

 
 

: All three characters represented distinct
___types, each of which had traits diamettically opposed to those of the other two;
‘kle wife, a forceful war hero, and a
“man about town.” The psyof the different parts was adegrasped by the. players and the
lines sympathetically rendered. |
_ Following the performance Mr. Frank
Page ren a piano solo, “Cat’s
Pajamas,’ encored with “Kitten on the
Keys.” Mr. John Wickwire sang “On the
to Mandalay,” also encorei with
nmy, Lad!’ The Medical orchestra
rendered several selections, afterwards providing the music for a few dances during
the short time remaining.

_ One perceives a notable inprovement in
Glee Club activities this year, which is
| —-—S™ the «endeavor to provide for the students

_ better entertainment, in the way of good

plays from acknowledged leaders among
‘the best modern authors, than has been

attempted in past years. It is gratifying
to know that this endeavor is not without
avail among the student body many of
whom are only lately beginning to realize
the importance of entertainments of this
kind in college life.

The next play to be presented by the
elub, will be ‘“Recoco’” by Granville
Barker.

W. P.

    

1
:

F r
i,

ir ye 4
Suey!
ae as

Rin
4 7
;

e
S

 

 

- The Commerce Society held its first
party on Tuesday, Oct. 20th. This took
the form of a theatre party at the Orpheus
is and a dance afterwards at Shirreff Hall.
e

    
   
  

) e evening was a very enjoyable one,
Ye) and ee vas gener: eG teaiet ae ie
_ hour for departure arrived. Th .
: eroned - Miss Lowe, included

1¢ t ee forty students and also

Professor MacDonald with his “lady

friend’ from Truro. The one regrettable
feature of the evening was that there were

so few Commerce freshmen there. It was
hoped that they would all turn out and
meet the other members of the Society.

To the. Commerce Freshmen—

This society which aims to act as a

unifying ce and promote an interest

among the students of the commerce de
_—spartment cannot possibly hope to main
4 ie ie past high record or. membership

if the new students do not show an in
terest in the society by attending the

meetings and social ere ee

er that this is a society of and for students.
Theh thie ty: oa will be, depends
ely on you.

. : mone that ae Bepee Sort
certain young lady on being inod to. Piteccor “Big Jim” Mac
ld, believing him to be a freshman,

him what subjects he was taking!

‘gymnasium has been secured for

of the Commerce students on Fri
afternoons from 3.30 to 5.00 o'clock.
be nae that all the students in
. will avail themselves of this

    

 
  

  
    
 
 
 
 
  

   
  
 

 
 

  

  

 

 
 

of good material and should be able
a good showing.

ieadent desiring Commerce So
ins or rings should hand his name

ecretary as soon as possible so that

ler may be sent away for them.

c AE. J.

  
 
  

 
  
 

 

  
 
 

, JOHNSON’S
‘TWO BOBBER SHOPS
s Service The Home of the Shingle
ic Theatre Building and
rge and Barrington Sts.

  

i

1e various roles. we " :
their parts, and the

 
    
     
 
    
   
 
  
 

  
  
      
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

|| His old, clay pipe is a

 
    
  

 

    

Dear Pa foe

    
 
 
  
     

Talk about ma’s social standing why it
would remain seated compared with mine.
1 wasn’t to college two days before I was
handed out a bid for some big party the
Sophs were staging on Wednesday night

d of course 1 accepted with all the
charmed 1’m sure’s’ 1 could remember.
(Pa, in case you don’t know Sophs are human beings who take great delight in
making green “things” black and blue.)
Well the party was going to be held at the
gymnasium at 7.30, so off 1 started dressed
in my Sunday clothes all prepared for a
swell time. .
1 can’t say as 1 altogether enjoy these
| parties at Dal although 1 suppose 1 can
get used to them after a fashion, just like
ma getting used to those new fangled imitation teeth you gave her Christmas. 1
entered the building and about 114 Sophs
piled on to me and | would have liked ’em
only the president of the Students’ Council told me not to hurt anyone so | layed
off for a while and did what they asked me

“

O.

First they blindfolded me and put me
through a long winding tunnel. 1 would
have got lost only happily there was a
fellow behind me pushing me on and
yelling for me to go faster. Pa, while 1
think of it, tell ma to send me some liniment.

But it was worth going to, that party
because after coming out of the tunnel a
guy clapped me warmly by the hand and
took me for an aeroplane drive. Gee it
was great, although 1 can still feel the
place where | landed. (Don’t forget the
liniment.)

About then someone suggested ‘eats’
and 1 was right on deck. 1 didn’t hanker
for more though, Pa. One mouthful was
more than two much. Sweet essence of
red hot stoves but it burnt.

Then they got me out in front of a big
crowd. One gentleman requested me to
sing. Of course 1 modestly refused at
first, but after considerable coaxing,
(they had excellent methods of persuation, those Sophs), 1 began ““The Old Oak
| en Bucket,” and that new jazzy jig] picked up last summer. Well it would have
made you proud pa to have heard your
son. The audience clapped so 1 had to
sing another.

Next they put the boxing gloves on me
and 1 started right into ‘em. Once 1 have
the gloves on nothing can stop me, isn’t
that right pa? Well sir, 1 guess 1 must
have pretty near knocked all the Sophs
out of commission, anyway, they were
pretty scared because I heard one pipe
up meekly, “I guess we'd better take the
gloves off that man before he knocks ’em
all cold!” Imagine your little sonny doing
all that, pa!

Then 1 let them take the gloves and
blindfold off me and first thing 1 saw was
the second meeting of Class ’29, but what
a change had come over my dear classmates. They were black in the face and
plastered with fly paper, all squatting on
the floor looking calmed and uncollected.
They were unnatural even to the grins on
their faces—and so this is what the Students Council terms “a better method of
hazing!”

Quivering custard but those Sophs are
a dumb-crowd. Here they were trying
to keep we poor freshman from being
“stuck up” and they plastered fly paper
all over our gobs. Well we were promised
a swell time. We had it all right, only
the swelling didn’t come ‘till later.

sending under separate cover 1 pr.
pants. Kindly tell ma to put new seat
in same. I’ve sworn off Sophmore’s
parties for good,

Your loving boy,
Sonny.

 
   

The Heart of a
House

Out on the Bedford Road a new little
house has just been built. It is an crdinary little house, and, like most of the
cheaper houses of to-day, it looks brittle.
Yesterday, the stark crudeness of it repelled. To-day one is drawn to it. For
the little house is no longer cnly new, it is
a new house that is an old home. The
change is not in the hcuse itself, for the curtains,are still down, the steps are yet to be
built, and no touch of paint has softened
‘the hard reality of the structure.

But Grandpa has arrived! All day long,
wrapt in thick, shabby clothes of indeterminate cut, he sits in the sun before the
door, motionless, calm, untroubled. His
face is filled with peace and benevolence.

 
   

  
   
 

 
   
   

tentment. Yet all thi

e@ might pass
over, even to his di Ma

an li ° . of age. “The a 1
‘|| fair fe srmanance. Already one looks for
him, as for a familiar landmark

Thus, he subtly sets the little house
apart from all others, gives it character,
In h

|| ala are symbolized all the traditions of

| e that are being lost in the modern
age. In Grandpa-and the house, the cld

‘the University of Maine, Orono, will play

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

and the new meet. Which will prevail?

es |
Fa nous Letters of With the passing of the old man will the
| wm gs little house once more retain only the
ee F amous Fe ple {meaningless starkness of its hideous
oo.) ; architecture, or will it still be a new house

that is an old heme?
F. W.

Publishing this paper each week is
by no means a small undertaking,
and all will realize that it requires
a certain amount of work, and also
sacrifice, on the part of those who
undertake to see it through.

Especially should we recognize those
students who have tried to do their
share by contributing articles and
news stories to the Gazette.

Aside from this fact, however, it
is our advertisers who make this
publication possible. They are willing to take a chance on a proposition,
backed by the students of Dalhousie
University. It is therefore our duty
to see that their confidence is not misplaced.

IN OTHER WORDS PATRONIZE
OUR ADVERTISERS.

 

    
 
   
 
    

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

— $2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

Medicals defeat Dents.—-9-3

 

Fifteen representatives of our ancient
and honorable prefession met an equal
number of the tooth extractors in the first
inter-faculty rugby game, and were successful in handing the dentists a §—3
defeat. The brand of play was surprisingly good, and provided the spectators
with many thrills. Medicine started off
with a rush, and encouraged by the stentorian admonitions cf Manager Ernie
Doull, carried the oval over the painless
people’s line after ten minutes of play.
The rest of the first half was a ‘see-saw
struggle around centre field. The men
of the Scalpel returned to the fray with
vigcr and soon made a second touch, which
was not converted. Full of desperation,
the molar artists rushed upon the over
confident medicos, shoving Cox over for
their only sccre. At this point, however,
a deputation of fair rooters from Shirreff Hall arrived. Their timely advent
caused the lagging Meds to fall on their
Opponents right lustily, with the result
that the surgeons’ half—line worked perfectly for another score. Medicine is
out to have the championship fcr the
third successive year.

The Annual Medical dance will be held
in the Gymnasium on Monday Nov. 2,
1925. Already there are indications that
this will be an even more successful dance
than in previous years. Preparations
for the dance are being carried cut by a
very efficient committee comprised of
Messrs. Cameror, (convenor), Bennett,
Beckwith, McLean, Doull, McDonald
and Winfield. To date the committee
have repcrted a considerable sale of dance
tickets.

A special meeting of the Medical Society was held in the Munro room on
Tuesday, Oct. 27th. Among other things
discussed, the society decided to have the
next meeting at the Green Lantern, in
the form of,a banquet. A very prominent speaker has been requested to address the society at this meeting and every
medical student will no doubt be present.

7. BoM.

 

GROUND HOCKEY.
University of Maine Team Coming.

The first game of the season in ground
hockey was played on Monday afternoon,
October the nineteenth when the boys
“all-star’’ team defeated the co-eds by
three goals to one. The teams were fairly
even in the first half but during the second
period the boys’ previous training in football showed to good advantage and they
were able to outrun the girls. Several
of the goals made by the boys in the last

eriod were offside and thus did not count.

ack Grant of Class '29 refereed. A large
and enthusiastic groun of spectators were
present.

On the first of November a team from

the Dalhousie girls. This will be the first
time that our co-eds have played against
an American team.

Music at Dalhousie

An Appreciation of Dr. J. D. Logan.

Music as a subject at Dalhousie is a
new development. lt has already proved
its practibility and it is designed for students who have a liking for music and
who wish to gain a further understanding
of this important subject; both from a
cultural aspect and as part of an Arts
Course.

Harmony, Counterpoint and Theory
are combined in the first year to give a
good technical foundation for the second
year. The second year is less technical
and much more interesting. History and
form of music together with a complete
course in appreciation of music being the
main subjects. Opera, folk music and the
various schools and types of music are
taken up and demonstrated fully through
the medium of the piano. Provision is
made also for the rendering of both vocal
and instrumental selections throughout
the year.

As time goes on and more is known
about this course it will be one of the most
popular on the college curriculum.

Some mention should be made cf the
help and interest taken in this class by
Dr. J. D. Logan who has been a friend
indeed. He has the distinction of starting two collections at Dalhousie. 1t was
through his efforts that a collection in
Drama was started. This year he has
made an initial gift of over one hundred
volumes of music. Many of these are
very rare and a number to be contributed
later are not replaceable. In all he has
promised one thousand copies; two hundred and forty to be given each year for
four years. It is to be hoped that in the
near future a special room, equipped with
a plano, may be available because many
of the books contain music which requires
an instrument to fully interpret them.
The book plate is of a very fine design and
reads as follows: “A library of musical
literature, founded 1924, by J. D. Logan.
Its object is to perpetuate Colonel William Ernest Thompson’s services to the
development of Dalhousie University
and to assist in the conducting of a faculty
or department of music in the University.”

 

Mr. Harry Irvine Portrays Shakespeare

 

Although we realize that that silence,
which holds merit“above praise, is the
highest tribute we feel that at least some
acknowledgement is due Mr. Harry
Irvine, who so kindly shared with us his
experiences, that we might know, not
Shakespeare, but Bill Shakespeare—a
real, live man. It is only when we recollect that Mr. Irvine himself granted only
last week that even out of the mouths of
the unwise, wisdem may proceed, that we
summon courage to undertake the great
honor thrust upon us.

Whether due to ‘Professorial dry-rot”’
or not Shakespeare had previously existed
to many of us either as a God of Literature
or a veritable Dr. Jehkyll and Mr. Hyde,
who at one moment wrote divine verse
while the next he abused his family. Our
speaker introduced us to a human individual whose father was a genius of versality who failed impartially at everything
to which he turned his hand; whose mother
was of “blue blood,” and whose brothers
doubtless handed their outgrown clothes
over to Willie for a last wear—even as you
and I have done.

 

We discovered and gave thanks that the
very neglect of his family, which we had
formerly so depreciated, had been the
power causing the latent genius to develop.
Much more we learned—or perhaps real
ized for the first time. How often had we
heard the story of Shakespeare parking
carriages before the theatre and thought
it a rather jolly fairy tale. Now it has
become one of the grim realities that our
author had to overcome before he finally

convinced the Fates that he was indom-.

itable; that it was wise to produce a
patron while it could be done gracefully.

Jeyfully we heard Mr Irvine state that
he was confident Othello had not been
overdone. The Anglo-Saxon or Scot
as the case may be censures nct because
the interpretation has been  exaggerated but rather because life has
been somewhat tco good to him—
because he has not developed his
emotions to their maximum capacity.
We venture to suggest that should any
dissatisfied member of the audience kill
someone sufficiently dear to cast him into
the depths of remorse and subsequently
see Othello the criticism would be reremoved. Since this idea is possibly repulsive to the conventional mind the free
play of an active and unrepressed imagination might serve very well.

1 think we can best express appreciation
to Mr. Irvine by referring him to these professors who for once heard the bell ring
without the scraping of a single chairs At
the close of the hour we so marvelled that
one man held such knowledge and at the
same time could impart it so happily, that
we forgot to insist that we really weren’t
hungry and let Mr. Irvine go off with
many tales untold. May we beseech
him through this column to spare us
another hour before he leaves Halifax!

VART.

Page Three

Majestic Notes

 

lf you have seen the Glossop-Harris
Company it is net necessary to exhort you
to go again. If you have not you are
missing something really worth while.

The latter part of this week the Company is presenting “King Henry V111.”
In no other work of Shakespeare is there
such a wealth of ceremonial, of pomp, and
pageantry. The history is somewhat
Shakespearian, but nevertheless, the play
offers a very interesting study of many
world-famous characters and the period in
which they lived. Another point of
interest to the student is that a considerable part cf the play has been written by
John Fletcher, although the lines from his
pen cannot be exactly determined.

For the first three days of next week the
players are offering the greatest love-story
of all time—‘‘Antony and Cleopatra.” <A
tragedy, this play seems vaguely to possess
a modern touch and probably holds more
appeal for the theatre-goer of today than
does any other work in the Shakespearian
gallery.

 

Study Groups

Any girl wishing to join a Study Group
may do so by speaking to Miss Avis Marshall or Miss Marjorie Mosher; or if you
are uncertain whether to join or not, get
any one of the girls on the Cabinet to discuss the matter with you. I am sure that
all will find these Groups most interesting
and instructive. The idea of these
Groups is not to force upon you the opinions of others, but to teach you to form
your own opinions, and to help you to
express your own ideas. If you feel that
you do not know enough about the ‘‘Life
of Christ’’ this is your opportunity to
learn more; and if you feel that. you already know enough, we would like you to
come and help others with their problems.
Discussions will be held once a week, and
will be led by Miss Lowe and some of the
girls from last year’s Study: Groups.

 

You know the rest of this

ALPHA BETA alphabet, but won't you

learn the music from a Music Dealer's Text Book.
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, etc.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

 

One Touch of Nature

 

Recently 1 discovered that the chipmunk possesses many traits, one might
almost say mannerisms, which are uncannily human. The cbject of my observation made his appearance at a picnic,
His face bere a “lean and hungry look”’
that contrasted oddly with the furry
rotundity of his little body. The expression is one pecular to animals and spoiled
children. He eyed with suspicion the
first piece of bread that was offered.
Finally, he picked it up in his paws, tasted
it with a doubtful air, and, having found it
gcod, disappeared with it into the tangled
under growth.

A moment later he returned. The
childlike air had vanished; and there stood
before us a keen little business man,
briskly twirling his mustache. At the
miraculous appearance of another piece
of bread, he cheerfully rubbed his “hands,”
picked it up, and tested it as before, but
this time, it seemed, a trifle more scientifically. The third time there was a
piece of frosted cake awaiting him. It was
too much fer his dignity! The business
man gave way to the gourmand. The
little nostrils quivered, the furry chest
swelled and swelled, and both “hands”
rubbed it vigorously, Caution and daintiness were forgotten. In a fashion most
unflatteringly human, he frantically tried
to cram it all into his mouth at once,
Failing in that, with the utmost exactness,
he neatly separated the frosting from the
cake, and bearing it aloft with some difficulty, he trotted off, wearing an air of
manly pride in the display of his muscle,
mingled with the unapproachable dignity
of a waiter.

F, W,

 
 

 

‘)

Clothes Seen at the | Colleges
SUITS, OVERCOATS
‘and FURNISHINGS

W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

       
         

 

 

Legal Lights’
Extinguished By Arts

12—3

Thurs. Oct. 21: Trim and in the pink,
the lawyers tripped gaily fcrth to meet
the enemy. Trimmed and black and
blue they stumbled from the field when
all was over. The two Arts rooters on
the stand cheered. The throng of Law
rooters sighed—for their dinner. __

As usual, the game started with a
kick off, Mitchell kicking. Then everybody kicked vigorously, till Doc Byrne
kicked a man on his own team, and the
referee was forced to interfere. Arts kept
the ball in the law territory. Law hecame annoyed, and Longley screeched
with rage, but to no avail. McLellan
went over for the first score. Brown
failed to convert. Shortly after, Morton
the law fullback, chucked Butler playfully under the chin as the latter whizzed
by for the second touch of the game. McLellan failed to convert. Law lost their
heads and began to kick with both feet,
which proved fatal. . Morton gamely tried
to recuperate and made a bold snatch for
Brown’s ear, but something slipped, and
Brown went over the line for another
score for Arts. As usual this was not converted. Everybody now kicked ith abandon. - The whistle blew, with the score
9—) for Arts.

Law came back*determined and with
better spirits. A wordy battle ensued.
Longley screamed that they couldn’t
scare him with their loud talk. Thus
emboldened, Fairbanks nabbed the ball
and scurried acrcss the Arts line for the
only law score of the game. Bill Richardson’s foct slipped and he failed to convert. Law redoubled its efforts. Godsoe made several graceful runs, only to
gnash his teeth in rage when foiled in his
attempts by the wiley Arts fullback.
Art Hull and Val Kyte continued to
shout directions to the law team from the
stand.

A few minutes remained. Beaton
ploughed thru the fray, gave Morton an
airy kiss to remember him by, and scored
again for Arts. Law tried strenuously
to argue “Ultra vires,” but the referee
manfully held his ground, and Arts failing to convert, the game ended 12—3 in
favor of Arts.

The referee starred for Arts, while
Blanchard, the law lineman, did effective
work for his team, on the side.

The line up:

Arts—N. Fraser, fullback; M. Fraser,
Brown, McLellan, L. Miller, halves;
H. Grant, Doyle, McKinncn, quarters;
Butler, Beaton, Upham, Coffin, Moores,
D. Grant, Stevenson, forwards.

Law—Morton, fullback; “Richardson,
Russell, Fairbanks, McKenzie, halves;

5 , Darby, Campbell, quarters; Heb ,
Davie Godsoe, Longley, Byrne, Mitchell,
Coughlin, forwards.

 

Dal.- Intermediate
SN, Se T.-C. 3

The N.S.T.C. team went down to defeat
before the Dal. Intermediates in a fast
game played immediately after the senior
game. Fora time the Tech team appeared to be the stronger aggregation, but they
were unable to keep the pace and the Dal.
team settled down. The first try was
made by Tech. This was not converted.
Shertly after the Dal. line obtained the
ball and after a pretty combination play
went over for their first try which was not
converted. The second try was made by
Townshend and was converted by Smith,
making the final score of the game 8-3 in
favor of Dalhousie.

Quartermaster Finch refereed.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

October 29, 1925

 

 

 

SNAPSHOTS IN AND

ABOUT DALHOUSIE

Actual picture of the Arts Faculty enthusiastically supporting the
Dalhousie team at the Dalhousie-United Service game.

Dalhousie 5
Dalhousie 3

Mud—and lots of it, “shooting the bull,”
a band rivalling Sousa’s, community singing, and open-air solcs all combined to
make Saturday’s game a colorful and interesting one,

A few hours befcre the game several
students armed cnly with real college
spirit and imprcvised shovels and ploughs,
made from ground hockey sticks and implements of every description removed
the snow from the campus and exposed to
view a regular mud flat. Undaunted, the
second team played their game and,
though 1] think they were infused with the
best intentions to clear the mud for the
following game—yet they only succeeded
in further “‘messifying’’ an already wildlooking field.

Jim Mitchell gave the Dal. squad victory in the last few minutes of play when,
intercepting a Wanderer’s pass in mid-air,
he bore the ball across the line and planted
it firmly between the posts before the
stupified Redlegs became really aware of
the fact. “‘Cutie’’ Smith alse starred for
the . Dalhousians, his consistent kicking
being a prominent feature.

The seniors following the gocd example
of their predecessors, again serving the
Wanderers with a nice fresh duck egg,
thereby raising themselves to a level with
the Reds in the league standing. Kelly

Wanderers 0
Wanderers 0

McLean's hair was as brilliant as ever, his
playing was even mare so. Mont gave
one of the most beautiful and consistent
exhibitions seen for a long time. Harrington played a hard and steady game
while Rex Moore, in his new positicn was
excellent. Ab. Smith was also very good,
but a little too inclined to “rough things.”
But to Murphy, “the old reliable’? must
go the credit of obtaining the touch that
won the game. Some say that Atwood’s
artillery-like voice at this moment, floating over the campus routed the Wanderers
while others say that it so put fear of what
not into Bunker, that he could not very
well do anything else but run. At any
rate we are sure of this—that Murphy did
get the tcuch—and that Atwood has a
voice even louder than his costume. Haslam converted without difficulty.

Aside from the game itself, Saturday
also saw the reorganization and revival of
the “Students Volunteer Band.” The
first open-air concert ever given at Studley
was led by G. Graham, cf “vocal note,”’
and was followed by “shooting the bull,”
(no relation between the two). This was
a burlesque staged by the enterprising
freshmen—and kept the stands in high
humour when they were deprived of other
amusement-creating antics.

G, G;

 

 

 

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE

Optometrist & Optician Y. M.C. A. Bldg,

Freshmen and Freshettes

We have something very
SpEcIAL to offer you for
onemonth. Getour prices

on group and individual

PHOTOGRAPHS

“CLIMO”’

For Distinctive Photographs
501 Barrington St. Phone S 1395

 

 

Students, Please Take Notice-
that we carry a full stock of Pens and Pencils, including the products of Waterman, Parker and Wahi Pens and Eversharps, and
that we maintain a SERVICE STATION where we give prompt
and accurate service on aes and replacements. We also carry a

full stock of goods for G

SEEKERS—the choicest products of

the best factories in many lines. BUY HERE FOR CHRISTMAS.

COOLEY BROS.

Jewelers

395 BARRINGTON STREET

Dalhousie 18—
United Service 7

The pestpcned game in the City League
scheduled to be played on Saturday, Oct.
10th between the United Service Fifteen
and the Dalhousie Tigers tcok place on the
Studley Campus on Tuesday, Oct. 20th.
Owing to the fact that a half holiday had
been declared by the Senate the students
turned out in large numbers to witness
the game, and incidentally to watch
the tactics of the three cheer leaders—one
Atwood being most conspicuous and giving

a most unenviable exhibition of dancing. :

The game itself was a fair exhibition of
Football, the Collegians showing the
better*form. Murphy, formerly with St.
F, X. was the outstanding player for the
Tigers while Timothy and Vokes played
well for the United team. ‘“Doc’’ Smith,
MelInnes, Moore and Harrington also
played well for the Collegians.

The Service Team kicked off. The ball
was immediately returned to their territory where it remained practically
throughout the entire period, which ended
12-3 in favor of Dalhousie.

In the second period the play was more
evenly divided and the Tigers were forced
to tcuch for safety three times. But the
Dal. three-quarter line again showed their
superiority and after some fine plays
Murphy again went over the line making
the score 15-3. One of the best plays of
the game was made shortly after when
Timothy obtained the ball near the Dal.
line and made a drop kick, scoring four
more points for his team. Just before
the whistle blew, “Doc” Smith made a
long run scoring the final touch of the
game and giving Dalhousie an 18-7 victery. Mr. Chipman handled the whistle
most satisfactcrily.

 

| ner in the 880 yds. run.
| other competitors to set the pace for the

 

Arts and Science

capture Inter-fac- pic: to score. In spite of the

ulty Track Meet. |

Commerce is Second

On Tuesday Oct. 27th, the Annual interfaculty track meet was held. The
event had been twice pcstponed but this
fact did not lessen interest in the event
to any extent.

The track was slow, because of the re- |

cent heavy rains, and with a stiff wind
blowing across the field the runners were
to some extend retarded in their speed.
No new records were made but Lee Miller
running under the colors of the Ccmmerce
Scciety, succeeded in tieing the record
in the 100 yds. dash, made by H. W.
Flemming in 1°08.

In the mile walk, Atwood,
away to a flying start and held this position for two laps, when he weakened.
Bell and Lowe, who had been closely
following the leader, jumped in first and
seccnd positions respectively and finished
in this order.

Hebb, (L) showed his ahility as a run
first quarter, while he saved himself and
with a wonderful sprint came from behind to beat out his opponents to the
tape, by several yards. It was a pretty
race.

Arts and Science were Strong in the |

jump. Keating’s exhibition in the Hop
step and jump proved to be one of the
features of the day. Jardine gave his
faculty twelve points and showed he was
as great a jumper as a sprinter.

The relay race proved very exciting.
Hebb gave Law a ccnsiderable lead in the
first lap, but Matheson for Commerce
came from behind to give his faculty the
premier position, which they
the end.

He allowed the |

held until |

 

 

Jardine, of Arts, was the highest in- |

dividual scorer of the day with 12 points

to his credit and beating out Keating by |

one point. Lee Miller of Commerce was

third.

Arts and Science with 34 points won|
the meet, being six points ahead of Ccm- |

merce. Engineers with 21 points were
third, and Law fourth with 19.

Results will follow next week.

Dalhousie Loses
to Acadia 9-0

Playing in the teeth of a terrific gale the
Acadians revenged last week’s defeat,
trimming the Tigers by a converted tcuch

|

and a field goal, both of which were ob- |

tained in the second period. Dalhcusie
miserably failed to avail themselves of the
advantages offered by playing with the
wind in the first period, whereas
Acadiens played their game in such a way

that as a result the wind became a deciding

factor in beth scores.

Acadia kicked off against the wind and
the play remained in center field for
several minutes. The Tiger forwards

 

The Leading |
Halifax Theatres

Direction J. F. O;CCONNELL

MAJESTIC tHEatre

NOW PLAYING
English Repertory

GLOSSIP-HARRIS CO.

STRAND THEATRE

 

 

Musical Comedy

and Vaudeville

the |

and

 

 

then dribbled the ball into the Acadian
territory and they threatened their line
several times but lacked the necessary
strong
wind the Acadian backs succeeded by
opportune kicking in relieving the situation several times. However, unfortunately for the Tigers the whistle blew
just as Bunker Murphy broke thru for
what looked like a sure score.

In the second half the Tigers although
facing defeat all thru this period showed
their “never say die spirit’? when they
fought right up to the Acadian touch line
on three occasions and forced the red and
blue to touch for safety. After five minutes of play the Acadian fullback connected up with the pigskin sending it nearlv
the wh le length of the field. This was
followed by a throwin and the ball having
been received by an Acadian player it

| was relayed to twe others the latter going

over for the first score in the game. lt
was converted frcm an easy angle. The

| Tigers once more kicked off filled with a
Law, got

determinaticn to even matters up, but all
their attemps were frustrated by the hard
accurate tackling of the” opposing
backs. Three minutes later Eldrington
put his team still further in the lead by a
drop kick which was the last score in th

| game.

The Acadian team showed considerable
improvement since the last game, and if
they play with the same pep and show as
good form against Mount Allison there
should be little doubt as to the outcome.

SPEEDY, °256.

 

    
   
   
  

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos |

 

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES |
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION |
——ATSO—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax |
|

 

 

| Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

 

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicns,
also Weppinc Bouquets. We
also do Taste Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists: We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world,

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

 

 

 

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO

CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

 

           
           
     

Men’s GLOVES.

of the better quality, “Dent’s,”
“Perrin’s,” “Acme” and other
standard makes. Leathers
which are SERVICEABLE,
Goop Firrinc, Styuisn.

$1.50 to $6.50

KELLYS

LIMITED
GRANVILLE STREET |

 

 
