   
    
   
    
   
   
   
 
  
  
    
 
   
  
   
  
 

LXVIII NO. 16

———————————

 

uy By an Undergraduate.
= Slowly and cautiously I mounted the

long tiresome stairs of the Forrest Buildcing. Sometimes I stumbled as my shoe
struck heavily against a step, and aga'n

I was precipitated forward as I wearily
Bi laced my foot down merely on air.
It was night and the building was

_ - envelopéd in darkness, a seemingly living,

impenetrable blackness.

Finally I aces ae top step and

urning vaguely grz l my way towar

- ward in their sockets, seized with an

unconscious desire to reflect one little

stray beam of light.

My hesitating footsteps echoed and re
ved down the long gloomy corridors

with hands extended I came to the

r. After much fumbling I clumsily

ted the key into the lock and was
out to enter, when glancing over my
oulder | became aware of an indistinct
it stealing through the transoms above
he Anatomy Room doors.

y eyes straining fore
   
   
 
  
   
  

___ **Possibly Dr, Cameron is in his office”
I mused and determined to pay him a
ot ttle visit before beginning my work.
- Once in the vestibule however I saw
_ that the light came, not from Dr. Cameron’s office, but from the Dissecting
It seemed strange that anyone
= .ould be there at such an hour.
I felt thoughtfully for the door knob,
but even as I touched it the portal glided
inward on its hinges. Bewildered, 1
entered, and the door swung quickly
- Ghut behind

   
 

7

é
..

   
     
  
  
  
  
          
  

me.
there I paused. Nay, I should
paused, for my whole being seemsfixed. I was powerless to stir.
ne stood a creature of such horripearance that i suspen all
description. It was human in
the ah aie shrivelled and

he eyes, — larin steadily
pee he fe seemed to
, Then suddenly

alive!
m the whole of its vile body came

ind |
light—somewhat greenish, yet rather
more of a ghastly inhuman hue, as if it
came from a part of the spectrum hitherto
unseen by man. ~The whole body was
aglow, while from the eyes came two
} brighter, stronger, expressionless beams.
aa The creature had been partly dissected.
The skin of its abdomen hung down in
‘great parchment like flaps and_ the
muscles in dried tatters, with fascia
still clinging to them. The intestines
lay fully exposed and a gaunt hand was
extended over them as if to hold them in
place. The spectre now began to move
towards me with the stiff precise treads
of a machine. And with each step its
joints creacked sickeningly, and the feet
4 made a dull knocking sound as they met
is. the floor.

Then when scarcely an arm’s length
away reason suddengly returned to my
- poor paralyzed brain ,

- Uttering a piercing shriek, as unearthly, even, as my pursuer, I whirled toward
the docr.

There stood another creature, its back
to the entrance more ghastly, more hide
ous than the first, a hcrrible fixed, toothless grin on its face. Again | turned and
fled blindly acress the rcom only tc
_ stumble and fall heavily forward as my
ankle was seized in:a merciless grip. 1
arose, terrified beyond speech, to find that
_ it was a hand which had tripped me, a
hand and arm, a mass of torn and lacerated flesh. Nothing more. Impotent to
_unloose its grip 1 strove on, the thing
dangling along the floor behind me.
After a seeming eternity cf distance |
found myself entering the bone room. A
coffin like box stood upright in the oppo& s fe corner. Rushing on | thought only
of a refuge—an escape.
Perhaps I could hide—behind the box.
But even as I approached the rickety
doer swung open on its hinges and a ske Jeton dangled out, suspended by the head
on an iron hook.
ee _A vertiable devil’s jack-in-the box, it
_ glowed with that same sickley light, its

   
    
  
    
   
  
   
    
   
  
   

  
  
 

  

    
  

eyes two erbs of black in the brightness.
And its bones rattled mournfully, its foot

a rapid tatoo on the floor. The

         
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  

e
nh

terrors only to collapse, my
ered, in the centre of the disakg the obscene limb still

ng a balm as oblivion was

mine. A jar of preserving
ve been cosa in my face,

i

 
 

Fairies of the Forrest

Imo

The following article will appear in the
next edition of the Dalhousie Alumni
News. The suggestions therein and information provided apply perhaps even
more directly to present day students
and to the graduates, as it rests with them
whether the Year Book will be a success
or not.

It will, no doubt, be of interest to old
Dalhousians and to the Alumni at large,
that it is this year proposed to publish a
Year Book, which will be susbstantially
a review of college activities for the past
year. This proposal has been considered
on many former occasions, especially during the past few years when it has been
found exceedingly difficult and expensive
to issue the regular number of the Dalhousie Gazette. Owing to the heavy expenses of the funds of the students,
chiefly incurred through the erection of a
rink at Studley and other pressing debts,
the Gazette has not had sufficient financial
backing from the Students’ Gouncil to insure the issue of a Graduation Number
and it has been decided not to do so.

The lack of a Graduation Gazette this
year afforded the necessary encouragement to put forth a Year Book, for which
the credit must be given the Senior Class
in Arts. The matter was taken up by the
various other faculties and has been endorsed by everyone of them including
Arts & Science, Commerce, Engineering,
Law, Medicine and Dentistry. Committees have been organized and work
begun and on the whole a favourable result is expected for the inauguration of
Dalhousie's first Year Book.

It is not proposed to make the Book a
comprehensive survey of the history and
activities of the College as would befit the
first edition of the Year Book but to make
a modest beginning and if successful it
will no doubt be made a precedent and
become and annual event, This Year's
edition will contain not only a survey of
the activities of the yzar, but also the
photograph of a short biography of every
graduate, group photographs of various
societies University teams and others.

It is expected that the Year Book
will be ready about the last week of the
College term and will be available at the
various University offices about the first
of May and during convocation week.
A large subscription list has been started
and both students and professcrs have
signed up in large numbers. The Year
Book will sell for the modest sum of two
dollars ($2.00) and it is hoped that every
alumnus and alumna will be desirous of
having a copy. Those who wish to insure their copy, as only a limited number
are being printed, may communicate
with the Editor of the Dalhousie Gazette
and those who expect to participate in
Convocation may receive their copy on
the grounds.

Attention Everybody

All students will be delighted to hear
that English 9 is following in the footsteps of last year’s English 9 in the matter of practical work in drama. We
have therefore much pleasure in announcing that on Friday, March 12th,
in the School for the Blind they will
present four plays by modern cramatists:
“Wurzel Flummery’’ by A. A. Milne.
“Tle’’ by Eugene O'Neil.

“Press Cuttings’’ by G. Bernard Shaw.
“Quality Street’’ (Act I.) by J. M. Barrie.

It will be seen that the plays chosen
exhibit variety both in type of play and
in authorship. In ‘Wurzel Flummery”’
we have a light modern society comedy;
“Tle” is a tragedy of the Artic Seas;
“Press Cuttings’ is a clever humorous
satire in Shaw’s best style; while
“Quality Street’’ a quaint old-world play
possesses all Barrie’s inimitable and
delightful charm.

English 9 consists of twenty-two students so the above program may seem an
ambitious one, but the rehearsals are
going along splendidly and the energy
and enthusiasm of the members give
assurance of success.

The proceeds cf the evening’s entertainment are to go te purchase books for
the Library. Students are requested to
keep the date open and to support
English 9 in its work both by turning out
on March 12th and by advertising these
plays among the general public.

Tickets 50 cents, are now on sale.
We advise you to purchase your tickets
early; mever in the history of Halifax
have four plays in legitimate drama
been presented in cne evening and for the
exceedingly moderate charge of fifty
cents. Seize the chance of a life time and
show your College spirit by supporting
your fellow-students of English 9. We
can assure you that if you like a good
show they will give you one,

   
 
  
 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 4th 1926

Dalhousie Year Book | Results Students’

Council Election

Avis Marshall, Godsoe and Merritt
lead poles.

Law.
Gerald Godsce Fred McInnis.
Medicine.
J. W. Merritt W. H. Seper
D. R. Chisholm A. L. Murphy
Harry D. O’Brien
Dentistry.
John Dobson
Aris & Science: (Class '27).
Murray Fraser

Murray Rankin
Minna Troop.

Avis Marshall
Helen Wickwire
Charles Roper

(Class 728).
A. M. Smith
Hugh McLennan
William Clark
(Class '29).

Ruth Elder
Ralph Morton

Alice Atherton
Ewan Clark

Reg. Baxter
Walter Ross

Engineering.

Bob Douell Harry Bell.
Commerce.
H. C. Grant A. T. Munro

Freshman Representative.

F, R, Hayes

 

Principal of Chester
on “Short Skirts”

D. O. Hebb Takes Issue with Dr.
Soloan.

 

Pursuing its ever energetic policy
the Gazelte was successful in obtaining an
interview with Mr. Hebb where its daily
contemporaries of the City apparently
failed.

It will be remembered that Mr. Hebb
is one of the graduating class of ‘26.
He is at present principal of Chester
Academy,a leading educationalist, and a
foremost citizen in the community,
playing also on the Chester hockey team
(defeated by Kentville 20-4).

Since the Gazette's journalistic year
will soon be at an end it does not wish
to become entangled in any protracted
lawsuits, Hence it is deemed best not
to publish Mr. Hebb’s interview ‘‘verbatim.”

Regarding the skirt problem, Principal
Hebb felt, personally, that there was
very little to it, and would be even less
according to the forecasters of spring
styles. He remarked that, especially
in a town the size of Truro, matching
cloth for the purpose of lengthening
skirts was a very difficult problem. He
suggested that, instead of this, all conscientious objectors might wear smoked
glasses, or blinkers which would limit
their sight to three feet above the earth.
He agreed with Dr. Soloan that the eye
strain was undoubtedly severe, but
thought that the smoked glasses would
do much to alleviate the pain. He also
thought that jazz garters bearing the
inscription “Eyes Front’: might be of
assistance,

Regarding Dr, Soloan and Truro Mr.
Hebb’s statements might have been
complimentary, had he been referring
to the Satanic Majesty and his Kingdom.

In conclusion Principal Hebb made the
intriguingly ambiguous remark, ‘‘Why
bother about skirts at all?”

(Chester papers please copy.)

Letter by Louis
Murphy

Dear Mr. Editor,—

Allow me to insert the following views
as seen by myself and a number of the
students who have passed two or three
years at Dalhousie University.

That the Freshmen and the Freshettes
at Dalhousie are allowed too many privilegestand that the college affairs and sccial
functions are carried on, and by in a
great many cases first year students, isa
subject that should be dealt with by the
Students’ Council to the fullest and most
advantageous extent.

Within the past few years the first
year students are merely Freshmen and

(Continued on page 4, col. 8).

 

  

Ts

;
;

      
 

Thi

|
it

  

 

mw
O8tes..

|
:

Five Cents The Copy

 

Dalhousie Glee and

.

Friday the 26th was undoubtedly a
momentous cecasion for Mr. Hetnze
since they say it was the 57th day cf the
57th year’ of his world-famour ‘57
varieties.’” But it was no less as momentous an occasion for Dalhousians when
Joe Connolley and his players—including
Allan Freeman with his ‘‘57 varieties o!
sweethearts’’—staged their musical mel!ange ‘‘Honi Soit’’ in the Gymnasium.
It was the most ambitious and elaborate
attempt of the year presented to a capacity crowd, and if it could have been
given in a suitable place would certainly
have equalled “The Maid and _ the
Middy.”” The hopeless inadequacy ot!
the gym. stage with its ever-failing nerveracking ‘‘curtain’’ and the poor acoustic
powers of the place as a whole, were
never more glaringly evident. To have
to cope with such difficulties after spending so much time and trouble rehearsing
must have been disconcerting to Mr.
Connolly, Mr. Morton and to everyone.
Yet for all that, everything in the play
proper went on smoothly, easily and
without hesitation which reflects great
credit on the stage manager and his
helpers.

The evening’s entertainment began

with a prologue—'‘‘Believe it or not’’—

supposed to take place inan English 13
class room. The interest centered largely on John Morton’s clever impersonation and on the song and negro ‘comic
stufi’ of Bud Smith and Keltie Holman.
“Collegiate” was snappily sung by “‘the
students.”

The Melange proper now commenced.

To begin by giving some general criticisms, it may be said that as a blaze of
gorgecus colorful costumes and artistic
lighting effects the whole show was a
delight to the eyes and a triumph for the
electrician Harry Bell, and for Miss
Minna Troop who arranged for the
The plot was undeniably
feeble—as it is generally apt to be in a
This however was hardly
noticed in the natural unaffected acting
The orchestra was
undeubtedly weak now and then— being
in spots largely Miss Ethel Daniels at
the piano with more or less cne violin.
The spot light also was not as_ well
being
probably due to the precarious position

costumes,
“‘pet-pourri”’.

of the principals.

 

managed as it might have been

of the operator.

As usual all the ‘Misses’’ of the evenchorus
“Braid the Laven Hair” came first—sung
Charlotta Johnston as Rose Wynne, and Dot Berry as

ing were “bits.” The tuneful

by the Mikado's’ wives.

Molly Seamore rendered their lines with
exceptional clarity and distinction. One
of the most charming numbers was the
trio ‘‘ I want to be happy” which they
sang with O Mimcsa San-a Geisha girl—
piquantly done by Kay Vickery. The
latter’s beautiful soprano voice was
never heard to better advantage in this
and in her solos ‘‘'The Amorous Goldfish”
and ‘'Chinese Love-Song.”’

The experts in Terpsichorean art were
notable features. The slave dancers
performed with just the right sinuous
grace of movement characteristic of the
East. Miss Fuller as the solo dancer
Iris, was an unqualified delight to watch.

Outstanding all through were the
duets—although it is by no means easy
to sing a duet well. ‘‘Then I'll be happy
too” by Allan Freeman and Charlotta
Johnston; “I love you so” by Kay
‘ickery and Allan Freeman; and Mollie
Mine” by Allan Freeman and Dot Berry,
were all very creditably sung—all revealing that they could sing and act equally
well. While Maurice Armstrong as Lt,
Jack Fairfax was the hero of the play
his part was small compared with that of
Allan Freeman, who impersonated Lt.
Ralph Cunningham, Mr. Freeman has
an easy stage-presence and a fine mellow
tenor voice. Besides the duets, he sang
“Jack’s the Boy” and ‘57 varieties of
sweethearts'’’—undoubtedly the most effective number on the programme. Here
he introduced a number of the ‘57’
to the audience; and as each College
belle came forward, her particular college
yell was heard—a very noteworthy idea.

Among the other members of the cast,
it would be extremely difficult to say
who was the most notable. In fact, the
whole production was one in which every
member cf the cast shared to a greater
or less degree but with each doing his or
her part, no matter how small, in a perfectly natural manner and with unusual
capability.

Gorden Graham as ‘‘Chi Lung”’ chief
advisor to the late Mikado, was one of
the outstanding actors on the stage.
With the charm that is particularly his
own, he sang ‘Cleopatra’ and a humorous ditty “When a Pullet is Plump”’
with Bud Smith, who having discarded
his dusky complexion of the prologue,

 
 

Dramatic Club

now appeared as Ah Sin a slave-girk
dealer. The inseperable Keltie was
there too as Ah Hei, his brother in crime.
Mention must also be made of Bud’s
wonderful acting in Fis song ‘I'll dance
and sing’ at the end of Act I. Phil
Magonet in his most realistic and sereamingly funny impersonation of Jakie
Cohen a tramp who has drifted into the
palace, provided many laughs for the
audience and his make-up was quite as
good as his acting. Ralph Morton,
besides being one of the authors of the
production had an important part as
“Happy Jappy” the court clown—singing a solo, “Chin Chin Chinaman.’

With regard to the decorations, the
Society is indebted to Mahon’s, Limited;
to Graham Allen, who made the universally admired figure of Buddah; to John
Shaw as the constructor of the throne and
to the Orpheus Theatre for the loan of the
spot light. Between the Acts, Miss
Daniels was presented with flowers and
Mr. Connolly with a silver-mounted
baton as tokens of appreciation. In conclusion, it may be said that everyone im
the large audience, which included so
many outsiders, could truthfully say that
‘‘Honi-Soit”’ was in every way a memorable production, and quite worthy to exhibit Dalhousies’ great dramatic talent
of today.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  

Lt. Ralph Cunningham. . Allan Freeman,
Lt. Jack Fairfax, H. M.S. Lollypop
Maurice Armstrong.
Midshipman Tommy Stanley
Miss Jean MacKenzie.

Takie: Gotha 2s esucls Phil Magonet.
Rose Wynne........ Charlotta Johnson,
Molly Seamore.........-.. Dot Berry.
Chi Lung, chief adviser to the late
Mikado. <. : «555.254 Gordon Graham.

Ah Sin, a slave girl dealer. .“‘Bud” Smith.
Ah Hei, his brother-in-Crime ,
Miss Keltie Holman,
O Mimosa San, a Geisha Girl
Kay Vickery.
Happy Jappy, the court clown
Ralph Morton.
AVES, A‘GANCES. So. ca ccs ss L. Fuller,
Lotus, the Bride of the next
Mikado Annie Bell

Ming Toy.........Margaret McKay.

ANNO caso 4 oy reais oun Janet Piggott.

Cho Cho San.........Sarah Volinsky.

Officers of H. M. S. Lollypop, Claud
Keating, John Budd, George Nicholls,
Ewan Clarke, Perry Mulock, Margaret
McKay, Anne Clark, Kay MacLennan,
Augusta Messenger, Ken Smith.

Wives of the Mikado, Helen Robertson,
Margaret Robertson, Minna Troop,
Alice Nelson, Sarah Volinsky, Jessie
Gladwin, Mary Sulliven, Janet Piggot,
Muriel Donahoe, Kay Hagan Julia
Goldberg, Phylis, Hilton, Audrey
Purtill, Helen Torey.

Slave Dancers, Jean Cumming, Kay
Hagan, Sarah Volinsky, Celia Margalin, Ruth Clark.

Spot Operator

Pate x heer C. J. Tanner.
Buddah, Made by Graham Allen.
Throne, Made by Jehn Shaw.
The following were the scenes:—
PROLOGUE.
“Believe It cr Not.”
Seene: English 13 Class Room.

Time: Ce ne fatre rien.

The Players:
PROT: 52,600 «4 65 John Morton.
Various Students....... Themselves.
POROUS ue Pee eA “Bud” Smith
Fhastery el Ge cant Miss Keltie Holman

ACT: I.
“A Study in Black and Yellow!”
Scene: Ante-room of the Palace of
Nagasaki, Japan.
Time: One week after the death of the

Mikado.
ACT II,
Scene: Same as Act I.
later.
The executive staff, responsible for the
smooth production of the whole was as
follows:

Three hours

Mannsery 22. tn rae ra Ralph Morton,
Costes. ..d04-.5 «60s. Minna Troop.
Stage Manager......... Jack Atwood,
RICCiiCinnhe ) . osc ane Ss Harry Bell.

John Shaw,
Churrot,

OCTIONY Hider olen toe VAR
Orchestra John
Paes uve cba a gs Ethel Daniels.
Strage Hands—R. McCunn, E. DuVernet, Bill Winfield, L. Maddin and H,
Dustan.
The ‘‘57 Varieties”:
Mud Pie Girl Ruby Hayman
(Cewsty (Car. aus See asians Edna Mingy.
Southern Girl Jessie Gladwin.
Gypsy Girl Marion Cameron.

ee eee wee

eS + 8. » & 4-6; & &

Mount Allison. 22) .icdscss Helen Biggs.
PR cree yar ae e Harriet Morrison,
PBI ii os ce OIE Elinor Olmstead..
POMIe soo a eee ow Ruth Elder.
PN OUBIE oS A cs Harriet Metheson,

 
  
   

 

:

an

Fy

 

gine

*

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”
(Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpuy, 26.

Associate Editors:

Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
Avis H. Marswatt, 27.
Ronatp Haves, 26.
WarreEN Pusuicover, 26.
J. J. Lysons Arwoop, '28,

Financiai Editor:

ter? | Cuas. F. MacKenzie,

18 Walnut St.,
Phone S1961.

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.

a 4 ae

‘Le Besoin D’un Cercle Francais
a Dalhousie.

Nous avons l’habitude de consacrer cette colonne a la discussion
de quelques idées nouvelles. Nous parlions, il y a quelque temps, de
“Vesprit de corps” a l'Université. Nous avons ensuite examiné les
avantages que présenterait pour nous la fondation d'une “Société

 ‘littéraire,"”” ou l’établissement d’une “Association d’étudiants.”’ La
semaine derniére il s’agissait d’une période de travail intense avec
suppression de tous amusements, etc. Cette semaine nous désirons

-attirer l’attention de nos camarades sur la nécessité d’organiser un
cercle francais 4 Dalhousie. En lisant les journaux des autres
universités qui nous parviennent chaque jour, l'idée d’une société de
ce genre s‘impose a nous de plus en plus. II _n’y a presque pas une
université canadienne qui n'ait un cercle frangais ou plusieurs.

’ Citons les noms de quelques-unes d’entre elles pout lesquelles nous
avons des renseignements précis:

 

 

Université Acadia: ‘Le Cercle frangais.”’

Université d’Alberta: ‘‘Le Cercle frangais.”’

Université de Colombie britannique: ‘La Causerie.’’
“La Canadienne.”’

Université McGill: ‘‘Le Cercle frangais.”’

Nous savons que les étudiantes de |’Université de Toronto ont

également un cercle frangais.

De tout ce que nous avons lu nous sommes fondés a conclure que
ces associations sont extrémement populaires et obtiennent un plein
succts. Au cours de leurs réunions les étudiants vivent dans une
atmosphére entiérement francaise—ils n’entendent, ne disent, ne
- Hisent que du frangais. Pour la conversation, les membres du cercle
| ‘tagent en plusieurs groupes suivant le degré d’expérience

qu'ils ont acquis. Ils mettent en commun leurs connaissances avec
autant de plaisir que de profit.
Ce qui est possible ailleurs l’est également chez nous. Il y a
_chez les étudiants de Dalhousie des ressources intellectuelles insoupconnées et qui ne demandent qu’a se révéler. Nous sommes persuadés que sous l'influence d’un cercle frangais beaucoup de langues
se delieraient que la timidité paralyse aujourd’hui.

Et beaucoup de talents se développeraient qui demeurent dans
l'‘ombre. Notre cercle francais serait, comme il convient, un cercle
littéraire, oratoire et dramatique. N'est-ce pas une chose enviable
que d’apprendre a débiter correctement un monologue,—que de
s’exercer a bien tenir un réle dans une piéce de Moliére, de Labiche ou

~ d’Alfred de Musset? Or ceci nous pourrions le faire, et avec la certitude de le faire bien.

N’oublions pas, en effet, que dans le Canada tout entier il y a
tout juste quatre Universités ou la direction des études frangaises est

- confiée A un professeur agrégé de l'Université de Paris, et que Dalhousie est une de ces quatre Universités. Le meilleur moyen de
montrer que nous sommes fiers de ce privilége serait peut-étre d’en
profiter un peu mieux.

Dans le méme ordre d'idées ne serait-il pas possible d’envisager
'établissement de cours d'été pour |’enseignement du frangais—
d'une Maison frangaise—ou cet enseignement pourrait étre donné
dans une atmosphére purement et exclusivement frangaise? On le
fait & McGill: pourquoi pas 4 Dalhousie?

En attendant, la Gazette serait trés heureuse de recevoir quelques
articles écrits en francais. Que nos jeunes auteurs aient confiance:
ces articles seraient revus avec la plus grand soin par une personne
compétente, et leur feraient le plus grand honneur. II va sans dire
qu’un poéme étani “rara avis’’ dans notre journal aurait toujours le
plus grand succés auprés de nos lecteurs.

Nous prions tout particuli¢rement les étudiants de premiére
année de vouloir bien faire violence 4 leur modestie et mettre un terme
A leur silence. La Gazette serait trés heureuse de recevoir d’eux

quelques compositions qui permettraient au public d’apprécier leur
talent.

De bons articles frangais offerts 4 la Gazette, seraient la meilleure
preuve que nous avons parmi nous les ressources nécessaires a
l'établissement de ce cercle francais dont nous parlions plus hau* et
qui demeure l’idée essentielle du moment.

A Suggestion,

The Work Campaign is now entering its fourth day and it is
‘most gratifying to observe the eagerness with which it is being sup“ported. It came into being as a vain hope,—a vague possibility,
doubtfully fostered in the Editor's mind and the general approval
which is apparent comes almost as a surprise. It is to be hoped that
the enthusiasm will not wane but will become more prevalent as the
time passes.

A possible safeguard against this would be a schedule carefully

drawn up by each individual and as carefully followed. It would
cover minutely the remaining ten days. Every day, every hour

 

“would be allotted either for work or recreation. Such a time-table
along with a firm resolve to follow it would form a pregnant combi
-nation.

   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Le Roi Est Mort, Vive le Roi,

To the successful candidates in the recent elections we extend
our sincere congratulations and our best wishes.

Through the medium of the polling booth the electors of the
University have made their choice. They have placed their confidence in certain students and it rests with the chosen ones to prove
worthy of it. Any petty jealousies or faculty ri ‘ralries which may
have sprung up during the campaign must be thrust aside and forgotten. While diversity of opinion will and indeed should arise on
various matters, the Council must always be united in a common
bond of sympathy for the rights and interests of the students of the

University.
We offer our condolences to the unsuccessful candidates and
also the rare bit of comfort to that quite possibly they are the more

fortunate.

Merely Bubbles.

For the past five months it has been the supreme desire of the
Editor to produce a special.literary or short story issue of the Gazette
which might be recognized as a high tribute to the literary and artistic ability of Dalhousie undergraduates. But now the end of the
term approaches and the desire is still unrequited. It is found impossible to obtain financial support from the Students Council and in
addition to this the available material is scarcely sufficient. So
hopes must fade into mtre dreams. as

However the two past issues have contained three original contributions of fiction and this week more are featured. In this manner do we hope to publish, in the remaining four issues, the contributions which formed our hoard.

To the Men of the Faculty of
Arts and Science.

The college year is rapidly nearing its end.

With the new year will come many new students,
the first college ceremony will be their initiation.

Will it be carried out in the same way as was the last
initiation or in the more satisfactory and decisive method
of previous years?

It is for YOU to decide. ;
An editorial from an early issue of the GAZETTE is

reprinted here to refresh the facts in your memory.

“The Old Order Changeth.”

With the opening of college year comes the passing of a glorious old custom
from Dalhousie. We are told by those whose college life is long past that their
first and last days as students linger most fondly in their memories. Linger because they are most impressive and symbolic even in their extreme difference. For
many years past the new students of Dalhousie have been promptly subdued by
the superior forces of their upper classmen. It was clearly and forcibly shown to
them that they were Freshmen, while at the same time, they wefe given an opportunity to display their own prowess and stand on an equal basis with their
opponents, as college students. ;

This year the initiation was conducted quite differently. The Freshmen were
instructed to appear at the Gymnasium cn acertain evening. This they did, quite
peacefully, and like little lambs being led to slaughter, allowed themselves to be
blindfolded and in some cases bound. The Sophomores then proceeded to make
perfect fools of them. All having fully qualified for their dunce caps they were
freed and allowed to mingle, on equal terms, with their persecutors.

An initiation, what ever form it assumes, should be impressive. In years to
come will the Class of '29 look back on this evening's performance as one befitting
their entrance to Dalhousie? We think not. a

There is no real boy or man, with fresh healthy blood coursing through his
veins, who does not thrill at the prospect of a good fight. It is true that last year
the initiation was carried out too roughly and while the casualties were not nearly
as heavy as our sport toll, yet this could be avoided. '

We should suggest that the Sophomores be allowed to overpowere their younger classmen by physical force, at an appointed time and a suitable place. Such a
combat took place in 1923 when the Class of '26 initiated '27 at the ‘‘Battle of
Studley Campus.” After a hard fight the Freshmen were overcome and paraded
through the streets of Halifax as captives. There were no casualties of even a
minor nature. The grassy campus provided an ideal battle ground and there was
absolutely no hard feeling between the rival factions.

An initiation of this type is impressive. Ask any Class '26 or '27 man. He
will tell you that no matter how the Future may deal. with him, it will always remain one of the most memorable occasions of his life. We suggest that in addition
to this, the Freshmen might bear some insignia of their humble positions. A verdant bow or armlet, while rather trite, is at least better than nothing at all. The
McGill freshmen in addition to wearing green, are obliged to salute their superiors
by placing the tip of the index finger on the top of the head and uttering a meek,
but audible, ‘“Tweet-tweet.’’ If sucha rule can be inforced at McGill, a university
having, each year, almost five hundred | reshman, there should be no difficulty
in executing it at Dalhousie.

Regarding this year's initiation, the general impression seems to be that it was
unimpressive, both morally and physically. The Freshmen, playing the fool for a
few hours, were not, in reality, vanquished. They were not shown that, while Dalhousie students, they were the least of Dalhousie students, and so must remain for
one year. There is even a case on record in the recent initiation, of one Freshman, being mistaken for a Sophomore and actually assisting in the initiation of his
fellow-classmen! Again, it is not at all fair to the new students of Kings, gaily bedecked in whatever the Sophomores may choose, to be looked at and laughed at by
the ‘‘gentlemen’’ Freshmen of Dalhousie.

So we strongly urge that in years to come the old custom properly modified,
will be returned to us, as it is the only way in which subjugation can be united with
a firm*bond of good fellowship which should exist among all Dalhousians,

and

* x + + * *

Sign the ballot below and drop it in the GAZETTE box. Your name ts desired

solely to serve as a method of checking up the voters.

Do you favor the type of initiation employed at Dalhousie in 1925 as compared with an open conflict under safe
and suitable conditions?

 

as

YES

NO

 

 
  

March 4th, 1926

MAJESTIC NOTES.

“Too Much Money” opens a three day
engagement at the Majestic today. It
is a First National picture from the play
by Israel Zangwill and featuring Anna Q,
Nilsson and Lewis Stone. It is a big
drama of money spenders, done in splendor and luxury. Lewis Stone, the best
dressed man on the screen, plays the role
of a janitor in an endeavor to win back
his extravagant wife. In the meantime
his fortune, which he has left in the charge
of a friend, is stolen by the man who
attempts to elope with his wife. After
a series of fast moving episodes he wins
back both wife and mcney.

Next week the Majestic presents the
biggest picture of the year.—‘‘The Sea
Beast’’ with John Barrymore. It is
from the famous novel '‘Moby Dick’”’ by
Herman Melville; Dolores Costello plays
opposite Mr. Barrymore.

It is an epic of the heroic lives of
whalers in the year 1840. The drama is
one rich in colorful beauty of heart
searing pathos and its emotions are as
violent and eternal as the terrific storms
that sweep through the picture.

Romantic from end to end and eloquent throughout but also grim and real,
it presents America’s greatest actor in
his greatest role.

From the Mail Bag

—_—— = —

TO THE TRUE-BORN HOBO.

  

 

 

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gaseite.

Through you I wish to address this
letter to those male Dalhousie students
who, through lack of funds, despair of
being able te take a trip to old England
this summer.

Whether you travei—like cattle—in
an organized group, or whether you
travel by yourself in the ordinary method
followed by wealthy, indolent sightseers,
you are bound to spend a lot of good
money that might have been better
employed. And if you have the money
to do so, yeu will be sure to spend twice
as much as you intended.

Now to those of you who are prepared
to rough it a little in a wholesome way
in order to see a few of the wonders of
this world, I , as an experienced hobo,
may be able to give you some advice as
to the various methods of travelling
cheaply. This advice would fill the
scanty inches of the Gazette for a sixmonth, wherefore, to spare my nib and
your precious weekly, | suggest that you
should come and expsse yourself to the
sound of my voice, any time and everywhere you see me, but preferably at the
Y. M. C. A. between two and ten on a
Saturday.

As a recommendation I| will mention
that last summer I travelled from here to
Quebec for three dollars and fifty cents,
from there to Leicester, England, for a
paltry ten dollars, from Leicester to
Shrewsbury, Gleucester, Bristol, Bath,
Reading, Cambridge, Lincoln, and back
tc Leicester, covering every inch of the
thousand miles of scenic highway at the
cost of one pound and eighteen pence.
Finally, after three months abroad, I returned to Halifax at the cost of a few
shilling’s worth of ‘‘delicacies” to eat on
the way.

This, you must admit, is a recommendation, but I needs must remind
you that | am a hobo, that I work my
way on ships and often on land, that I
sleep on hay-ricks and feedon bread and
cheese by the wayside. When I travel
I look what Iam. Policemen question
me, dogs bark at me, and by night rats
gnaw at my delapidated boots. These
things, if you are a true-born hobo all
help to make you the happiest man alive,
And if you are such a one, please remember me.

Your everlasting friend,
P. L. Hi. MUSCHAMP.

a

MORONS AND MUCKERS.
To The Editor:

There may be something interesting
in what I say and there may not. If
there is, jou might publish it; if there is
not, you might publish it anyway.

I was prompted to write because of
several matters which drew my attention
during the Glee Club Night about two
weeks ago. Everyone knows that the
rear of the gym, during the entire program is in comparative darkness; that
there are several nooks and corners which
are almost totally dark. But I doubt if
everyone knows that those almost totally
dark nooks and corners are, during Glee
Club programs used as parking spaces by
loving, petting, crooning couples. If
they would restrict their activities to
crooning there might be no real cause
for criticism, but it does seem a bit out
of place to pet rather effusively during
the programs.

As is evident by now, this is being
written, not to advertise such almost
totally dark nooks and corners as parking
spaces, but, rather, to criticize the actions
of those who use them as such. It is
strange that they cannot find a more
suitable space to express, other than in
words, the tender passions they feel.
I hesitated to use the word “‘tender”’—
What was evident on the occasion to
which I refer was anything but tender.
The sentiments might be described in
that way, but certainly not the expression
of them.

I rather fancy that the practice could
be eliminated by moving the wrestling
mats up nearer the main part of the
audience. I omitted the fact that the

(Continued on page 3, col. 3).

 
  
 
  
    
     
    
   
    
  

ee

as March Ath, 1926

This evening (Thursday) at 8 o’clock
should you peep i: to the Shirreff Hal!
' Reception Room, or better still should
_-—-—s- you enter and t<.ke a seat there, instantly
ts Halifax with its snow, slush and wintry
_ «harms would disappear, and you would
find yourself in historic Geneva and
chatting With that new child of history—
_ The League of Nations. Frof. Mercer
___ with his lantern og sacecit igen to be the
Magic carpet and intends not only to
a show the beauties of the wayside, but to
‘recreate in some measure the internation, al spirit he found alive in } urope last
+ summer, especially the pessibilities for
~~ women to pcssess themselves of a real
a patriotism. ‘‘ The Release of FatriotF, ism” is the rather suggestive sub-title
ofthe hour. Anyone wishing to book their
¥ passage for this adventure should be ‘in
_ the. Shirreff Hall Reception Room

_ promptly at 8 o'clock.

i
oe
5 ON AN ENGLISH EXERCISE.
* ‘We are a nest of singing birds today,

For when commanded, then we
must obey.

i,
rt
ae

Bets 5
All English I must write a ten-line|

os verse
< oe And take a chance for better or for
a worse

_ Ye Gods! To make this scan I have
no shope.

ee.

__ I wish I were a Dryden or a Pope,,
_ Those gentlemen could make their
ey: verses scan

ti Like water from a tap their rhythm
oe ran.

_ Qh well, I have but two more line to

fo). + And now, Thank Goodness! I
as declare I’m through.
a W. G. A.

MORE TRUTH THAN POETRY.

i ee

ae ea

a TD

J

_ Although of love of work I cannot
r st,
a Of all my work, O Muse, I hate the
most :
a> To put my thoughts in verse, how2 _ ever prime,
. Because for me the words will never
| rhyme,
r But give me just the plain and simple
_ prose,

NVhere truth is truth maybe; a rose.

fl

arose,
_ And if you wish that I may happy be,


That I may cheer and yell and always

Old Studley and Dalhousie in my
F- dreams,

‘Why then cut out, I pray, both verse
ft and themes!

 

15‘ per pkt.
25 fora!

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

  

 
 
 

Manufactured by
Senperial Tobacco Co of Canada, Limited.

Tonight at 8 O’Clock| Une Petite
ae Mesaventure

Au ccurs de cette derniére guerre un
officisr canadien fut blessé par une balle
Une
ambulance !e transporta a un de leurs
postes de secours, et on se mit immédiateLe pauvre homme
infinie de

douloureuses opérations, qu’il es
a

Kins of °
CIGARETTES

venant des tranchées allemandes.
ment a le soigner.
dut souffrire une succession

sans rien dire pendant huit jours.
fin il leur demanda ce qu’ils faisaient.

‘“‘Nous cherchons la balle qui vous a

répondit un des médecins.
s'écria le

blessé,”’
_ “Comment!”

veus la trouverez dans une de

poches.”

 

 

———.

“The Critic,” by Richard Brindsley
Sheriden, was recently presented by the
students of University College, Toronto.

_ Famous People’s Views on a
ee 4 Famous Custom.

ENGLISH I.

O meter mest melodious and sublime

Pentameter iambic, made to rhyme

In couplets fill’d with beauty flowing
free,

This stilted verse I dedicate to thee.

No liquid line or flowing phrase I
mould,

As would a lilting Grecian bard of
old;

No striking similes my speech inspire

As did, with Virgil, storms and
Dido’s ire—

Indeed, my lack of eloquence confines

All I can say to thee through these
few lines.

D. M. M.

—

TROUBLES OF A FRESHMAN.

The freshman tried to write a little
verse

He tried quite hard but still each
line grew worse.

He had to write for Monday’s English
class,

He was afraid that he might fail to
pass

That hard exam, the prof. is sure to
set.

Turn from that thought! For this
must first be met,

And written ere ’tis time to go to bed

He racked his brain and this is all he
said.

The poet Gray was slow to write a

rhyme

Se what can I do in this little time?

 

mG Mi

  
  
  
    

 

    
 
 
  

 
  
   
   
    
  
    
 
 
   
   

canadien,
“mais pcurquoi ne me l’avez vous pas
dit plus tét? Si vous désirez la balle,
mes

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

The annual student service under the
Andrew’s Church on Sunday night.

“Jerusalem” was sung by a choir of
Dalhousians. There were two other
‘specials’
solo by John Wickwire and the other a

The opening anthem William Blake's} Juvenile Court.

.

 

in musical features, one a

ee

On Tuesday, 23rd February, the Socio
auspices of the S. C, A. was held in St. | logy Club had an exceedingly interesting

talk from Mr. E. H. Blois, Judge of the
He first gave a brief
outline of the legislation underlying the
creating of such a court and explained
that according to the act the Juvenile
Courts have a two-fold purpose, the wel
quartet “The Haven” sung most pleas- | fare cf the child and the good of the com
ingly by our old friends, Gordon Graham,
Charlie MacLennan and Messrs. John
and Chalmers Wickwire. The hymns
sung were “God reveals his presence”
and ‘‘Where cross the crowded ways of
life.”’

Jarvis MacCurdy, who led the service
in a few words explained clearly the
organization of the local Association and
then introduced to the congregation
Miss Gertrude Rutherford, national
secretary. She spoke of the movement
in its national and international aspects
and started by tracing, in an interesting
way, its development. In Canada there
are only two colleges not affiliated with
the Student Christian Movement and
the students of Canada are linked with
these of the United States (who work
under Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C, A,)
by a representative council. These two
nations are connected with the Student
Movement of Great Britain, of Germany,
of France, cf Japan; in fact, of most
nations. The underlying, vital band is
that all these students everywhere in the
world are facing life together, trying to
solve its problems and be honest with
one another. Miss Rutherford spoke of
the European Student Relief fund, now
the Student and Friendship fund, which
was organized after the war and to which
came contributions from students
throughout the rest of the world. This
fund, beside supplying physical needs ol

professors and students of Austria,
Russia, Germany and such countries,
made tremendous headway breaking

down national prejudices and animosities
and, in their place, building up international fellowship. So greatly did it
do this that, at a conference in Germany
last year, although the need for the fund
did not any longer exist it was proposed
that it be kept for the help of students of
any nation which should, at any time,
be in distress. The German students
then paid in $2,500 of what had been
given them and expressed their intention
of paying it all. This was a real demonstration of the movement in its working
internationally. Miss Rutherford closed
her talk with a prayer.

“Saviour again to thy dear name we
raise’’ was sung as the clesing hymn and
the benediction was pronounced by Mr.
Clarke.

After the service there was a ‘‘SingSong” at Shirreff Hall for which Dot
Berry played. Much rivalry was displayed in the hymn. choosing, Owen
Armstrong and Frank MacDonald both
scoring, thanks to Jarvis.

At this ‘‘sing’’ Miss Rutherford spoke
about conferences in general and particularly of the National Conference to be
held the end of this year. A short discussion on conferences ensued. Then
after a few more hymns, the non residents
reluctantly began to go. With the aid
of Herbie’s oratory most of the lingerers
waiting for a word with Miss Rutherford
were chased out shortly after 10.30.

 

=
MORONS AND MUCKERS.
(Continued from page 2, col. 5.(

mats, used as settess, seem to be a
necessary adjunct te the darkness of the
various nooks and corners.

It is not necessary to go into a discussion of the moral side of the problem.
But anyone, it seems, who cannot ccntrol their desire for what they appear
to consider the divine of divine pleasures
even during Glee Club programs certainly
can be considered as no more mature
than a moron, and as having no more
sense of decency and propriety than a
lower animal.

There is no need of saying more on the
subject, except, perhaps, to suggest that
pecple who indulge in that form of
“‘pleasure’’ under such circumstances
can have little or no self-respect; and

people who are lacking in that respect |

are to be pitied with all the pity that is
available.

You will pardon me if I take more
space? I hope you will for I wish to
say a word about the ‘‘muckers’’, who,
on the evening in question, consistently
interferred with the announcement of
the last number of the program.

I use the word ‘“‘muckers’’ advisedly.
By their actions ye shall know them—
and their actions certainly designated
themas muckers. More than one person
in the audience blushed—actually blushed,— thinking of the opinion that the
outsiders who were present must have
gained of Dalhousie students. The
disturbing group were the only ones who
found anything humorous in_ their
crude, impolite, and noisy actions.
These actions, in their minds, seemed to
be, oh, so clever. They seemed quite
pleased with themselves. But everyone
else was nothing but disturbed and
angered by such an exhibition of childishness and thoughtlessness.

f there is any doubt as to just what
group I refer, it is the group which
congregated around the door leading to
the locker-room downstairs. Their
actions were an insult to people of ordin-!
ary intelligence and sense of decency.

munity, and these two are both kept in
mind when a case is being considered.
Judge Blois emphasized that a delinquent
boy or girl is not regarded as a criminal
charged by the state, but as a ward under
the protection of the state and that therefore the procedure of the Juvenile Court
is informal, private and friendly, its purpose being not to punish but to aid the
delinquent. He cited a number of concrete cases to show how different circumstances led to different verdicts, and
to emphasize the fact that the child’s own
home, if at all worthy of the name of
home, is considered the best place for him;
when the home is not judged to be the
best environment for the right development of the child then, and only then,
is he placed in an industrial institution,
The club was assured that fully 75% of
those who pass through the institutions
make good, the Judge humorously remarking that if they could turn out 100%
perfect record they’d beat Dalhousie.

In closing he told an amusing story
to show that their more serious work had
its bright moments. On one occasion he
was conducting a little fourteen year old
girl to a home in the country. On the
journey she was passing the time chewing
gum somewhat noisily, and the other
passengers began to stare. Mr. Blois
finally whispered to her, ‘‘Mary, you'd
better put that gum away.” “Oh sir,”’
she said tearfully, ‘‘please don’t take it
away from me. I’m so lonely without
it, it’s the only friend I’ve got.”

This talk was greatly enjoyed by those
present and the thanks of the club to the
speaker is sincere.

For the benef.t of any students who do
not know, it may be well to state here
that all students interested in social
problems will be welcome at the meetings
of the Sociology Club. These meetings
afford a wonderful opportunity to learn
something of the problems of Halifax
and of how they are being met and solved.

—- +=

The University of British Columbia
has chosen Bernard Shaw’s ‘Pygmakon”’ for its spring play.

 

Engineering Notes

An important meeting oi the Engineering Society was held on February 22nd,
when many interesting questions were
brought up. The subject of an Engineering graduating picture was first discussed,
and a committee appointed to interview
Gauvin & Gentzel concerning it. After
the secretary had presented a _ very
favourable financial report, the athletic
manager asked that the society pay for
the time during which the Engineers
had had the use of the rink, instead of the
amounts being charged to the inaividual
users. The meeting passed this unanimously.

The annual Engineer’s stag banquet
was then considered and after much
heated controversey on the merits cf
different types of functions, the entire
matter of the very indefinite subject of a
‘‘hanquet’’ was left to the social committee.

The final matter to be brought before
the meeting was the election of nominees
to the Student's Council, A change has
been made this year in the representation
on the Council and as a result the department of Engineering is to have two
members in that body, Seven names
were set before the meeting and from
this number, Currie, Dechman, Doull,
and Bell were chcsen to go up for election
on March 2nd. Since the date of the
meeting a furious election fight has been
carried on in the various buildings by
the different campaign managers, with
the drafting room as_ headquarters.
The candidates themselves however still
contrive to keep up friendly communication.

 

It would be well if those in that group
had a sense of humor. Then we would
not be bothered by them, for they would
die laughing at themselves—at the
thought of how insane they were to
believe they were being entertaining,
when they actually were making themselves despicable.

A. B. C.

*KELLYS”’

FOR

CANES
“The Specialty Shop’”’

116 118 GRANVILLE STREET

a!

 

Page Thrae

Student Service | Sociology Club

 

 

MAJESTIC

'

SELECTED PHOTO PLAYS |
ENTIRE LOWER FLOOR
RESERVED EVENINGS.

THUR., FRI., SAT.

“To Much Money”
With
ANNA Q. NILSSON
AND

LEWIS STONE
SPECIAL

MME. DAVIS DANCERS

‘“* Clark Sisters Revue’’

CLARK SISTERS REVUE |
THE BEST MUSICAL COMEDY ||
COMPANY TO EVER HIT |

CASINO

NEXT WEEK

MON., TUES., WED.
RAMON NAVARRO

“The Midshipman’

ng een oe

 

 

THUR., FRI., SAT.
GLENN HUNTER IN

“THE LITTLE GIANT”

SERIAL COMEDY

 

 

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

    
   
     
 

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

  

 

You know the rest of thie
pea. but won't you
usic Dealer's Text Book.

ALPHA BETA

learn the music from a
It starts like this:
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles

Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos

Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four Pressincs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST,

 

DO NOT FORGET HER
AT EASTER

Flowers are appropriate but not
any more so than a lasting useful
gift selected at BIRKS.

She will think of you every time
she wears it.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS Ltd.
Barrington Street

KR
EE,

 
  

w “a

 

[|

   

i“ i wt ove N Tee a iol 7
ely Ss oe
¢ , F 1.4 ; : 4 rs q al
— ee a1 7 & i.
i

7

¥
ee ——
a

— et

wh of am
7 aaa

SUITS, OVERCOATS

and FURNISHINGS —
W. FE. Page |
| 1] Cor. George and Barrington Sts.

aby

gre,

 

ss FAIRIES OF THE FORREST.
ae (Continued from page 1, col. 1).

i: for I revived, dripping and reeking with

ie its sweetly repulsive moisture.

A circle had now been formed around
me. More had come,—even as I looked
ee one arcse slowly from its dissecting table
and joined the doleful throng. I was

m ’ ‘surrounded by those creatures, indescrib
: a ably odious and defiled, and all emitting
| the most nauseating stench. _ ;

They were in all stages of disruption
andeven decay. Several there were with
| but one arm or leg. Cne resting against

. the wall was both legless and armless

* Another—most horrible of all—another

e- was headless, and it went poking about

f 2 amongst the bones on the shelves, search
: ing—searching for its head!

‘If only he would come,” I meaned,
-“the master of all these creatures, their
only earthly overseer. He could save
me—would that he might come.”

But more horrors were awaiting me.
They were to speak! Never to my dying
hour shall I forget those morbid grating
croakes which were their voices. Each
word, nay, each syllable made my nerves,
drugged with fear, tingle anew. |
What shall be done to him,” cried one,
the one of the sardonic toothless grin,
and he pointed a gaunt and _ bony, puttified finger at me. “To him, a_mere

ortal, who takes these poor bodies of
ours, these last vesitages of our earthly
life, and hews and hacks, severs and sunders them with his cruel knife.
“Who tears us limb from limb cried
another tottering unevenly on one leg.
“Who brands us with gaudy painted
numbers.”
"Ns if we had neither features nor

names.”

“Who laughs and jokes over us as he

sinks his sharp edged blade deep into our

bodies,” cried a higher shriller voice
hich might have been feminine had it
been at all of this world.

And so they cried—a
monium. [

“Away with him,” “Away with the
wretch—away—to the dissecting table”,
they cried ‘‘Away to the table.”

1 was borne up in those vine like arms

I tried to cry out but a cold clammy

hand, soft and flabby in decay, was

thrust over my mouth. I was carried and
dropped heavily on a dissecting table—
a greasy metal topped dissecting table.
“Cn with the lights!” cried one. ‘The
lights," croaked another derisively. |
“A mateh would give more light,’
and my pockets were rifled for matches.

Then one creature placed itself at my
feet, holding a huge book. It was the
< “Atlas of human Anatomy.’ Another

EO by its.side held the key. They chanted

thousand

 

  

hellish pande
 

| slowly, aloud. A seeming
; hands now held me down.

Loolish precaution! I could not have
stirred had I been free—so paralized with
fear was |.

The chanting grew louder and louder
and I felt the cold, sharp, cruel steel
piercing the skin of my forehead. But
there was no pain. :

What was mere physical pain while |
suffered all the mental tortures of a soul
eternally damned?

I felt the knife cutting across the
bridge of my nose. The thick hot blood
trickled down into my eyes and over the
pupils.

“If only he would come,” I mcaned—
before its too late.’’

_ And even as I spoke my wish v as granted me.

The door swung open and he entered as
he had often done before, the same
gay old hazel eyes, the same close cropped

an Dyke, the same bronzed face and even
the same khaki lab coat enveloping his
slightly stooping shoulders. At sight of
him the creatures, my vivisectors, fled
each te its proper place, and laughing
hysterically 1 stumbled from the room.

 

| | A Complete
| Musical Service

Everything that Students
require in Music, including
small instruments Of every
description. Sheet Music &
Music Books will be found

PHINNEY’S Limited
414 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

ae a - ane . —— _

a

  

mane ecinty ae
asketba

LAW 15. ARTS 13.

Law defeated Arts for the second time
this season, but had a very close shave.
Profiting by their mistakes of last Saturday they were a vastly improved team
when compared to the one that Medicine
defeated. Law working on theory of the
‘early bird.’ piled up a double score on
the first period 8-4. In the second Arts
came to life and very nearly nosed out a
victory but the Lawyers guarded very
well,
Law—Richardsen 7; Doyle 8, Outhit,
Mitchell, Coughlan, McInnes, Fairbanks.

Arts—H. Ross 3; Keating 4; Clark 6;
Hood, W. Ross, Grant.

Medicine defaulted to Commerce and
Dentistry to Engineers.

 

Y. M. C. A. 14.

Dalhousie walloped the Y. M. C. A. in
a convincing manner last Saturday, The
game was played as a result of Dal. losing
a protest on the game in which they beat
the ‘““Y."’ two weeks ago by one point.
By the victory the league is now tied and
Dal. and the “Y.” have to play off.
Looking back over the league the “Y..”
and Dal. were the two outstanding teams
and it wasn’t long before it could be seen
that it would be nip and tuck between
these teams for the championship. They
have met three times this season giving
Dal. 81 points and the “Y.” 61 as total
scores. This takes into consideration
the protested game, which Dal. even
though they won and then lost on the
protest, should have won by a greater
margin than they did assuming the score
to indicate the margin cf play. ‘‘Doc.”
Smith made his first appearance of the
season at center and his presence was im
ediately felt. Though as yet he is not
in the best of shape yet he played an excellent game being right there all the time
particularly in getting in on the rebounds
which up to now has been one of Dal’s,
weak points. The other forwards Langstroth and McLeod were in excellent form
their passes criss-crossing the floor with
such speed as to completely “stump”
their opponents, This pair working together made an enormous difference as
previous to ‘‘Doc’s.” appearance McLennan played on one of the wings and
though he plays a good game yet he slows
up quickly when the checking becomes
at all heavy. Smith and Doyle as guards

ere as a stone wall, blocking well and
getting the ball back up the floor quickly
yet with the smoothness of a well oiled
machine. McLennan played a remarkably fine game taking as usual many
bumps but not slowing up at all.

Line up—McLennan 14, McLeod 8,
Langstroth 4, ‘‘Doc.’”’ Smith 8, “Ab.”
Smith 2, Clark, Moore, Doyle, Hewat,
Jones.

DAL. 36.

Dal. plays the “‘Y’’ in the Dal. gym
next Saturday at 8 p. m. in the first
of the home and home games.
Everybody should be out as a victory
for Dal. gives her a chance at the
only championship she is likely to
get this year.

 

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and Colleg. - ext Books
Commercial and Society Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS}

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Interfaculty
Hockey

DENTISTRY 1. COMMERCE 0.

 

Taylor sccres in over time.

Commerce met their first defeat of the
season last week, when the Dental Devils

scored in an overtime period. Commerce started off strong but found
“Barney” Oldfield unbeatable. Den
tistry came to life in the second and had
the edge of territory for the rest of the
game. When the whistle blew at the end
of the game neither team had scored so
after some discussion it was decised to
play overtime. After about six minutes
of ding-dong hockey Taylor stick handled through the entire team beating Phinney with a hot shot which smashed into
the crockery before the Commerce goalie
could make a move to close the shutters.
It was probably the best played, most
closely contested and consequently the
most interesting game of the season, being
full of fast good natured hockey from
start to finish.

“Wilf”? Creighton, the. lumber king,
rendered a touching version of ‘The
Little Wooden Whistle wouldn’t whistle’
throughout the game which held the play
up time after time.

Dentistry—Oldfield, goal; Tupper,
Dobson, defence; Taylor, Sullivan, Craig

forwards; Israel, Duxberry, McLean,
subs.
Commerce—Phinney, goal; Munroe,

Doyle, defence; Munroe, Grant, Medonald, forwards; McDuff, Miller, subs.

 

LOUIS MURPHY’S LETTER
(Continued from page 1, col. 3).

Freshettes by name, their privileges are
in a great many cases more than the
stately Senior, the result of which is that
the first year students are not passing
their exams, at Christmas and that their
standing in their respective classes is not
what is expected by the Professor, but
that their first year consists not of getting
used to the College customs but of learning the Charleston, the manners and customs of afternoon teas, midnight shows,
and a jolly social life the year round. The
first year students do not stop at this,
their manner to the higher student is unbelievable, they are in a great many
cases before the Senior man, which |
might say is not at all college spirit.

Sometime ago it was the custom of initating the Freshman in a manner which
he could not forget, but which I might
say, he enjoyed te the fullest extent.
This ferm of initiating has been barred
and even the wearing of some conspicuous
apparel has been covered to some extent.
This plan is something that should be
dropped before another year dawns on the
University, let the custom which has
been carried out for years be again returned, let the Freshman realize that his
standing at_the college during his first
year is one in which he learns the manner
of the college and that the Senior man is
his superior, that the Senior man is to
come before him and not after, which
had been the habit for the past year or
two.

Let the Freshman know that his time
for acting will come after he has acquired
the ways of the cellege, that the Senior
man can do the work of representing the
University as well as he can, and that
after the Senior has completed his work
he will be all too glad to step out and give
the new Student a chance. It might be
said that the Senior student is too busy
with his studies, but this has been looked
into and in most cases he has sufficient
time and a strong initiative to do al! he
can for the college in his final year.
Therefore, 1 would suggest that the studdents who were elected this week to the
Students Council would push this plan
and would make it areward to the students interested, for their vote.

Yours truly,
LOUIS F. MURPHY

For Distinctive Style and
All-round Excellency

 Astoria’”’
SHOES

For Men

Stand out as the Leaders in
Canadian Footwear.

W. L. Tuttle

SHOE DEALER

Barrington St., Spring Garden Road
and Dartmouth

 

Girls’ City League

Dalhousie girls defeated Trinity last
Tuesday 54-8, and thereby finished the
league without a defeat. There will be a
play off series staged between the two
high teams of both sections, the dates of
which will be announced later. Miss
Thompson was high scorer.

Line up—Atherton, Thompson, Campbell, McCurdy; Phinney, McPhail, Freeman, Thompson, Foote.

 

DAL. 26. MT. A. 13.

Dal. just managed to nose out Mt. A.
last Saturday when they played Mt. A.
in Sackville. Marion Campbell practically scored all the points getting a total
of 14, five of which were one point baskets. fAlice Atherton, the debater,
scored the remaining two. The game
was very hectic and oftcn inclined to become rough. The guards played very
well,

Line up—Campbell 14, Atherton 2,
Archibald, Thompson, Borden, Freeman
Roberts, Barnstead.

 

Intercollegiage Basketball.

A return game will be played Friday night at the Dal. Gym. Everybody out to root Dal. on to victory
and a big score.

Small
But Important

YOUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat

may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLLar
you wear—it is the one article of
dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
that confidence which comes from
good grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no welldressed man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,
which is so acceptable.

L. 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry
85 West St.

924.00

Suit or
Over Coat

to your measure.
in Canada.

Best value

See the many advantages |i
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your
clothes.

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

aa

 

Cable Address: ““McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Souicitors &c.
A Se mm ee

HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C. Macdonald. K
Stuart Jenks, K. C, P. B.A. Cittoasadh .L. A. Lovett, K. C, N. E. MacKay

 

 

 

If You Want to See Well
SeeW ALLACE

T. J. WALLACE
Optometrist & Optician Y M C. A. Bldg

 

 

March 4th, 1926

SPORT NEWS <<

  

 

om The

WINNERS From 1

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goeds
HALIFAX 33 N. S.

 
    

     
   
         
     
 

    
 

 

When in Town

GET THE

Three Essentials

1. Pure Food and Candy

2. Prompt and Courteous
Service

3. Low Prices

AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

* 427 BARRINGTON ST.

Geo. Alexander

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose,

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes,

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

 

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers on2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicns,
also Weppinc Bouquets. We
also do Taste Decoratinc. We.
are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents For

Society Brand Clothes

Correct Dress For Students

437 Barrington Street

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

SpPEcIAL Bospginc Partors
For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

 

geemainneniie es i _

 
