 

 
   

   
     

Ys dl das 6 oer 1k. ae
: a _ 7 ~ ‘ ad ;
r i iy co t
ss ae “e \
ees -s
a Ga eS
= i. to
.. et =
eae te
ee 2 ee oe
ES |
ea Se
FS tet
as ; Dy
a flings i
— ‘a
, ee = —.
; *g Fi
ot ye
ap ; = =
he = —
iginlads = =
i =~? — ood
us —_—— —
‘a ‘ J — —
* ai Z = — inn
i ik ——
4a. —
Fy 4 - 7.
.
-_

  

os

Dalhousie Glee and
Dramatic Club

The Glee Club is really excelling itsel!
this year. It seems to have the delightful faculty of continuing to produce eac!
time a better show than the preceding
one. Last Wednesday an exceptionally
big step ahead was made in the excellence
of the musical programme and play
which constituted the programme.

As opening number, the new College
orchestra under the skilful baton of
Miss Jean Shaw made its debut with
“Doge’s March” from the Suite ‘‘The
Merchant of Venice’ by Rosse. This
was a truly charming little sketch well
rendered. It is impossible to bestow
teo much praise on the fair conductress
fcr her great service to the College in
getting the players together and working
up an “ensemble.”

Fellowing this, the Male Quartette
provided a fine second number with three
songs: (a) ““O Mary, don’t you Moan”;
(2) Cornfield Medley and (oO a delightully humorous ditty ‘‘Who built the
Ark?” ‘The famous four but added one
more to their Icng list of triumphs and repeated ‘“‘Who build the Ark’’ to their
enthusiastically insistant audience.

In the line of novelties, the Club has
been prodigal this season and this time
presented Charlie Beckwith with his
musical-saw. This instrument (or rather “device’’) has an unusual, fascinating vibrant tone and the selection ‘‘The

orld is Waiting for the Sunrise,” suited
it admirably. Charlie did his stuff with
great “‘eclat’’ and Blanchard Thomson at
the piano provided the flawlessly subdued accompainment which the “saw”
demands. An encore was enevitable of
course, and proved to be “Sometime”
haunting melody with artistic violin obligato by John Thurrott.

Lee Chisholm’s Male Chorus now took
the platform, singing three numbers: (a)
“Yachting Glee,” by Culbertson; (b) the
famous ‘Stein Song” (with solo part
effectively done by Charlie MacLennan).
and (c) a rollicking comic song ‘‘Don’t
_ Tickle Me,” by Martini. A tremendous
improvement over Mar. 13 was noticeable at once even though the songs were
much more difficult than on that night.
Lee has now a vocal organization of which
any college might well be pround. Roy
Wiles was up to his usual form as accompanist.

As a climax to the musical feast, the
new orchestra appeared again—playing
Lemare’s beautiful ‘‘Andantino” with exceptional ability. While bestowing the
highest praise on this new addition to
Dal’s. musical life, the writer does not say
that there is no room for improvement,
because there ts; especially in ‘tuning
up true” before starting and remaining

ere. After all, this is but a matter of
accuracy, attainable with ordinary care.
Nevertheless, the initial step has been
great—very great; and with continued
regular practice, the orchestra should become well nigh perfect ere long.

After some delay, the one act play by J.
M. Barrie—‘‘The Well-Remembered
Voice,” now commenced. As regards
scenery, lighting, costuming and acting
this was easily the best play this year. It
was refreshing to see at last one with some
beauty and artisty about it—unlike the
undeniably slight and somewhat trivial
comedies seen up till now. AIl members
of the cast were good—though Art
Murphy as Mr. Don in the leading role
far surpassed in naturalness and artistic
interpretation anything done so far.

As “The Well Remembered Voice,”
Ronald Hayes had a most difficult role
being obliged to speak from behind the
scenes. His well modulated voice, however, admirably atoned for the lack of
personal element, although at times it
seemed rather too strong and forceful for
the subdued atmosphere. Harriet Matherson’s interpretation of Mrs. Don was excellent and Ann Bell, as Laura, the dead
man’s sweetheart, Bill Wickwire and
Jack MacQuarrie were also most effective.

 

Personnel of Orchestra,

1st Violins—Hazel Williamson, Lionel!

ete George Langstroth, John

Thurrott.

2nd Violins—Jessie MacIntyre, Helen
©’Connor, Isabel Norris, Annie
Clark.

Trumpets—Frank McDonald, Donald
Murray.

Fluies—Blanchard Thomson, Carl Smith.
*Cello—Marjorie Egan.
Piano—Julia Goldberg.
Sexaphone—Charles McKenzie.
Director—Miss Jean Shaw.
_ ‘The new scenery, the permanent pro_ perty of the Glee Club, showed up to the
_ greatest advantage, and contributed very
_ materially to the success of the play. It

ps -* (Continued on page 4 col. 1).

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 25th 1926

 

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE “GAZETTE” WORK CAMPAIGN.

In an endeavor to assist the students in getting down to work after the
heavy siege of social activities which has prevailed the GAZETTE proposes to
stage a ‘‘work campaign.’’

The campaign is in aid of the students of the University.

The contributors will be the students of the University.
The dates are March Ist to 14th.

The Objective.—Two weeks of hard study by the whole under-graduate

body.

To attain its goal the GAZETTE must have the co-operation of every

student.

Do YOUR bit! Put in two weeks of hard work!
We rely upon YOU!

YOU

 

Nothing But The Truth.

A More-or-Less One Act Play.

(Adapted for production in the Gymnasium).
Dedicated to Professor Bennet.

(All Rights and Wrongs Reserved).
PROLOGUE,

The Campus by Moonlight. (If you
go'to the Untverstty Office and ask nicely
they will give you the scenery necessary
for this. You can make the moon for
yourselves with a candle). Dalhousie
College ts wrapped in a calm and soulful
peace. <A balmy breeze stirs gently round
the Library. (A blowpipe borrowed from
the Chemistry Department will help you
to make a suttable breeze).

Enter the Spirit of Truth. She
must be very beautiful in a cold kind of
way, and she will enter like any ordinary
sptril, except that. she will not fall over
her garments.

The Spirit of Truth:

Hew fair a night! How soft the College

sleeps!

How beautiful! ’Tis like a dreaming
babe

Rocked in its cradle, full of golden
thoughts,

Pure as the pearls of Paradise, and oh!

So virtuous, so very, ve-ry good!

How fair a night! How soft the College
sleeps!

Enter the Demon of Human Nature.
He is something like the Devil, and something like Professor Jim Macdonald,
and something luke Mr. Herbie Davidson.
He flashes fire from his eyes because he
has put red ttssue-paper on his eyelids.
(You can get this off a packet of Wrigley’s
or from the Medical School).

The Demon of Human Nature:

Liar!

The Spirit:

Accursed word!

deep,

tt ee to Hades. (I will not say to

eu,

Because it is not ladylike).

Foul creature of the

Begone,

There are no liars here: herz’s only
truth—
The virgin, snow-white, innocent,
absolute TRUTH,
- The Demon:*

Ha! ha! Ha! ha! You know as well as |

Bae no one tells the truth when he can
ie.

This place is mine:

The Spirit:

I say it isn’t—see,

I raise the wand the Gods have given
me,

Hereby I issue my command most clear

(All must obey) that in this College
here

Professor and Student, age and careless
youth,

Shall from this hour speak nothing
but the TRUTH,

The Demon:

Well, I'll be jiggered;

sOme sport.

now we'll see

— —

The Spirit:

I say that you'll see nothing of the sort.

The Demon:

You'll see a change I'll wager two to
one.

The Spirit:

My gleaming gold 'gainst yours I’m
right. ‘Tis done: :

Curtain: or if the curtain sticks, as
curtains do at times, some Freshmen can
stand and fill the gap ad. lib.

SCENE I.
The Gazette Office.

The Editor (throwing M. S. S. into
the waste-paper basket already full to
overflowing): Rubbish! Stuff! Rot!
Piffle! Oh Heavens, why did I take
on this job. I can’t write. Neither
can anybody else. This is not a Literary University. The Gazette isn’t worth
the paper it’s printed on. I should be
shot for producing it....Yes, come in

Enter the Secretary of the Neo-PanTheosphical Society.

Secretary: Hullo you, evolving a
masterpiece ?

Editor: There is no such thing as a

masterpiece. I want something to eat.

Secretary: But you said yesterday you
liked the job.

Editor: Did I? Then I was a liar,

Secretary: Well, I’ve brought you that
Report anyway.

Editor: Thank Heaven, half'a column.
Let’s hear it.

Secretary: It’s like this. (Reads).
“Wednesday, some infernal date which
I can’t remember and amn’t going to
try to. On which night this Society
met as usual. There was hardly anybody there. After a few platitudes from
the Chairman, Mr. Getmigote read one
of the most drivelling papers of modern
times. I don’t know if anybody took
the trouble to listen; I didn’t. I expect
you'll find most of it in Schlossenswzeimer’s book: Getmigote had it out of the
library last night. Everyone was bored
stiff except two sports who had the sense
to go out. I believe I moved a vote of
thanks; anything to getitover.” There,

how’s that?
SCENE II.
Any Classroom you like.

The Lecturer: Good morning stupids.
We shall now go on with one or two examples of that Theory I was explaining
to you last time we met...Hullo, has
anycne seen my notes?

The Class: No, sir.

»The Lecturer: Er-Um-Ah-I say, do
any of you people know anything abcut
this stuff?

The Class:

The lecturer: Well, to be quite frank
with you, neither do I. I’m no good
without my notes. What d’you say
to going to the rink for a bit instead?
Any objections?

The Class: No, sir.

No, sir.

SS

SCENE III.

A Staff Dinner at the Halifax Hotel in
honor of Professor Pluckem who
has been mercifully called
to Harvard.

Professor Boremall: Mr. Chairman
and Gentlemen, I rise for some reason
best known to the committee to propose
the health of Professor Pluckem. I may
as well mention that I’ve prepared this
speech beforehand, so I expect it’ll be the
best you'll hear tonight. Well, we all
know old Pluckem’s a bit of a snob and
we all know he’s a Professor, but what
none of us can guess is, why? It’s not
brains and it certainly isn’t good looks, so
what the deuce is it? Personally, [ have
always thought old Pluckem a most overrated man; he isn’t worth a hoot at lecturing (I’ve heard him) and his golt’s
shocking. However some people seem to
think differently; we all know he’s an
accomplished liar. I know more than
one yarn about our worthy colleague that
would make you open your eyes, and nobody knows that better than he does.
Don’t you now, you old sinner? Pon my
soul, as I go on, [’m not sure that I don’t
feel a positive dislike to Professor Pluckem. However that’s neither here nor
there, so here’s the old fool’s health;
praise the saints, he leaves Dalhousie in
May.

(Loud applause: all stand, clink glasses,
and sing: ‘‘For He's a Jolly Good Fellow.’’)

Professor Pluckem: Well, gentlemen
I suppose I ought to be deeply moved,
but if you think I’m going to squeeze out
any tears for your sakes, you’re jolly well
mistaken. As to old Boremall’s speechwell, it was a pretty feeble effort, wasn’t
it; he’s a rotten speaker. I’m not surprised the Senatus had to make his
classes compulsory. I know I shouldn't
attend his lectures unless I had to. As
a matter of fact I think students who
make ninety per cent attendance in his
subject should have their fees refunded.
However I needn't enlarge on it. It’s
true I leave in May. I don’t suppose
you care one way or another and I shan't
break my heart. You’re a pretty poor
lot in my opinion and I shan’t mind being
quitof you. Still, thanks very much and

all that. (Loud applause).
SCENE IV.

The Gymnasium at the Convocation
Dance.

 

celled itself.
jevening was the novelty parasol dance.

 

Five Cents The Copy

‘ront me with all the follies I have uttered? I don’t love you at all. Understand. I never did. Bet you know as
well as I do that we must all have someone to push us with the girls at Shirreff
Hall, and so I fixed on you as the most
efficient. I am now going to a job in
Toronto where I'll have more to do than

write letters. You've done your part .
very decently.” I’m much obliged. Good
bye. (Sniffs from Co-Ed.).

EPILOGUE.

The Campus. Black night, illuminated
only by a few stars. (Matches will do).
The balmy breeze still stirring gently round
the Library. Enter stealthily the Demon of

Human Nature. He gropes about the
Library steps. There is a sudden jingle
of coins. With a low mocking cry he

tosses a couple of gold pieces into the )air
and prances off with movements of diabolical glee. A sound of soft feminine tears ts
heard. The Spirit of Truth sobs pitifully across the stage, trailing vanquished
and dejected garments.

THE END.

N. B.: Curtain directions given in the
Prologue apply throughout.

ENGLISH 9,

Students’ Council

——

Freshmen Fined—Charge for Shows.

A meeting of the Council of the Scudents, was held on Monday evening,
February 22nd, with President Morton
in the chair, An application was made
on behalf of Delta Gamma to hold their
annual dance on Wednesday evening,
February 24th, which application was
granted. The inevitable letter was read
from Professor Howard Murray re students smoking and one student accused
by Professor Bronson denied his guilt,
but after a langthy trial and cross-examination by the Council the case went to
the jury and on the weight of evidence he
was convicted and fined.

In order to provide for the approaching elections to the Students Conneil,, it
was decided to leave the matter of appointment of returning officers in the
hands of the President and Secretary, the
‘lections to be held on Tuesday, March
2nd.

The proposal for a Year Book was
brought up but ewing to the lack of
funds, it was deemed advisable to await
further information before granting the
Council’s sanction. The Year Book will
this year take the place of the annual
Graduation Number of the Gazette, butzg
a much more comprehensive volume,

Mr. Armstrong, of the Rink Cemmittee
reported that the Freshmen have not
turned out for rink duty in shovelling off
the snow and it was decided to impose a
small fine on all delinquents. It is hoped
that this will have the required effect as
the management has incurred considerable loss of rents from lack of support.

A motion was passed to impose a small
fee at all subsequent shows put on by the
Glee Club. This will provide anew revenue and will not be sufficient to discourage anybody from attending.

A proposal to provide the Basketball
Team with sweater'coats was deferred
until a proper repcrt of the finances was
made.

R,

Delta Gamma Dance

In Wednesday evening, February
twenty-fourth, the Dalhcusie Gymnasium, was the scene of the dance of the
season, when the Delta Gamma Society
entertained at its annual At Home, The
gym. with its garlands of wistaria and
bowers of roses indeed resembled a picturesque garden. The vines of rambling
roses andthe quaint summerhouse transformed the gym intoa ‘‘vertiable bower of
delight.”” Against thie charming backe
ground the gay ccuples danced to the
strains of Maclean's orchestra, which exOne of the features of the

Co-Ed.: Shall I give you my home; Also, the programmes, being triangular

address, Jack?
Her Partner: Address?
I want with your address?
Co-Ed.:
sometimes?
Her Partner:
should I?
Co-Ed.:
ways said—
Her Partner:

Certainly not?
Then—then—But you

Said!

Why | Wilson.
al
Said? Great
Heavens, woman, is this a time to cen
: }in shape and featuring the famous Delta
What would) Gamma twins, were greatly admired.
i The chaperones of the evening were:—
Aren't you going to write me} Dr. and Mrs. MacMechan, Professor and

Mrs. Munro, Miss M, Lowe, Dr. G. E.
While the executive responsible
for the success of the dance was:—Elinor
Barnstead, Pres.; Jean Messenger, Helen
Wickwire, Mabel Borden, Minna Troop,
Keltie Holman, Jean MacKenzie, Ruth

Elder.

 
 

Page Two

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”
(Founded 1869) :

Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpry, 26.

Associate Editors:

Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
Avis H. Marsuau., 27.

* Ronatp Hayes, 26.
Warren Pusiicover, 26,
J. J. Lysons Arwoop, ’28.

Financtal Editor:
Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

 

 

Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year.
’ | |
, ; ; 1
The Work Campaign
i One of the fads of our modern age which seems to be developing

beyond the stage of a mere passing whim is the attraction for concentrated campaigns and drives, for special ‘‘weeks’’ and ‘“‘days.”’
| There is “Canadian Book Week” as well as ‘‘National Fish Day.”
| ‘There are endless permutations and combinations of similiar ‘““weeks”’
| and “days.” 5. !
Ki And then there are the more modified forms such as financial
campaigns and tag days. ‘““Tag Day”’ is a game indulged in by
Gen. Public with all the departments of his great army. It is very
much like the ordinary game of tag played by children on vacant
lots, except that the children’s a is fun.

The object of the game is for Gen. Public to make his way infrépidly along the main throughfares without being caught. Every
time he safely passes one of the sirens sent forth to ensnare him he
gets one point and if he reaches his objective untagged he is the winner-——until he ventures forth again. He may employ any methods he
cait devise to escape unscathed. He may turn his head in the opposite direction, or he may look back over his shoulder apprehensively
as he passes the fatal street corner. He may even look straight
‘ahead, his chin well up and an absorbed light in his eyes. But if he
allow even a shade of selfconsciousness to pass over his features he is

\ dn mortal danger and is liable at any moment to have a pair of seduc‘ing eyes meet his own,—an entreating voice cry “‘Tag?’’ Then the
-_game is over and he has lost,—lost more than the game.

This great development is probably a co-runner of the ever in‘creasing industry of modern advertising and as such its prospects are
‘unlimited. It is possible that before many years we shall do away
with our present calendar and that February 25th, 1950, may be

““Chew-it-after-every-meal-day”’ of ‘‘Eat-Smith’s-tearless-onions”
. week.”
. The Gazette has an idea, brilliant in its originality. It is to hold

‘

a campaign not of a day nor of a week, but ofa fortnight. Early this
morning was the close of the last college dance of the year, or at least
until Convocation Week (another “week’’!). Tomorrow night the
large cast of ‘“Honi Soit’’ will terminate its activities, and for two
weeks the social life of the college will be practically at a stand still.
The objective of our campaign, then, is two weeks of work from
the whole University,—two weeks of work from every student!
It is wonderful what can be done in two weeks. If every student in the University really studies, March 15th, will find him with
his years work fairly well under control.
'» - This will mean less danger-of failure in April, less hectic and
ruitless last minute struggles. It will mean a really happy Easter
in place of the horrible “cramming”’ orgies generally prevalent at
that time.
Let us take the campaign in all seriousness. It will be a dismal
failure unless it is endorsed and supported by every member of the
undergraduate body. The idea is original, new and untried. But
even the most sceptical must admit its soundness. If it receives the
adoption and backing of all it will be a glorious and, unqualified success,—an everlasting token of that attribute which even a college
education cannot give—common sense.

So let us all forget pleasure, just for fourteen short days (it is remarkable how short real work will make them seem), and unite in
earnest industry and labor.

Let us co-operate with one another and lighten the load by removing every occasion of temptation.

Let us realize that we alone shall reap the benefit in direct proportion to our labors.

Let us, for two weeks, fulfil our college motto to the ultima.
Let us work!

 

Class 726 Party Dreamland

—-—- —__. —_. Gunnehimmeans,
—-—

| On |the ideal night of Thursday, Feb.!1 sigh as I dream of that far-away isle, —
18th, the merry class of '26 gathered for] The isle where the soft breezes blow
its last sleigh drive at the Munro/ Where twilight brocds ever near wings of
Room. They embarked and set their the night
course for the Hydrostone. After two And silver streams splash soft and low.
hours they returned to the port of
Shirreff Hall, where ‘‘the light fantastic’’
was indulged in for the remainder of the
evening. Chaperones for the evening
wete Professor Gowanloch, Doctor
Nichols, Miss Nichols and Miss Lame,
who befitted themselves to the occasion
most admirably.
Clyde Keyes performed at the piano, é
assisted by Charies MacKenzie on the|!'ve been in that dreamland, oh, many a
sax. The music, re-dless to say, was time
excellent. ' And heard the shy song of the breeze,
Most appropriate and satisfying re-| That rustles so softly, one doubts that
freshments were servedand the party re- one heard
gretfully broke up only when it became} It’s voice in the flowers and trees.
oo a the Hall dwellers have ae
.*E? 'G:

While out, far away, on a vague dreamland sea,
Afloat in the warm after-glow,
Light shallops, white-sailed, like my vain
wishes, glide
Beyond the horizon’s broad bow.

 
 
   
  

a little sleep. “Twas a very successful
and enjoyable party.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

From the Mail Bag |

 

INEFFICIENCY AND ERRORS IN}

THE PRESENT SYSTEM OF
MEDICAL EDUCATION.

At the recent annual Medica! Ranquet
attended by well over one hundred students and teachers of the Medical Faculty, the point was raised as to what place
the so called cultural subjects, classics
and sciences, should cccupy in a Medical
curriculum. The initiative of the students, who broke the ice in the discussion
of this matter is greatly te be commended
and full credit is due to Mrs. T. G. MacDonald, E. L. McQuade and R. E. Bennett, for placing before many members o!
the faculty the true feelings of the med'cal student body regarding the present
curriculum.

Obviously enough the great majority
cf the present medical students are distinctly dissatisfied with the existing
course. One need only listen to the conversations of the students to see the trend
of their mind and to realize the logic of
their conclusions.

At the banquet mentioned above
several members of the profession, our
teachers, defended the present course
and lauded the advantages, necessity,
and returnsof a cultural, as well as ofa
purely medical education. There is not
a student in the university who does not
agree with this. The student objects
to the-time and means: which are taken
in the futile attempt to give him such
an education. Our cry is: Why do we
not get six years of medical education in
a six year course? The medical men
who advocated the inclusion of cultural
subjects in the course would do well to
remember that they in their time did
not acquire their present culture entirely
during their medical studies. Their
medical course did not include the
called cultural subjects that embarrass
ours. They were required te know the
essentials of the sciences only and to
study the theory and practical application of their future profession. Are
they any the less cultured for it? They
are not, certainly not if they presume to
teach culture to the student. Are we
then, present day medical students, to
be considered so far behind in the arts
that a two years prerequisite in the
latter is necessary before we dare begin
the study of medicine? The average
freshman of today in medicine has a
more comprehensive knowledge of the
classics and sciences than the same freshman of thirty to thirty-five years ago
and he has that knowledge when he
passes his matriculations. Yet it is
considered necessary to broaden this
education by two years further study
before the student is judged competent
to count a pulse or elicit a patellar reflex.
Just think what this means. It means
the loss of two years of practical education.

It is all very well in an academic
sense to know Physics I, Chemistry IA,
Physics 20, Chemistry 2A, Histery of
Thought, Chemistry 4, English IA,
Economics I, and the Influence of
Science on Civilization, but in my mind
they are an intruding superfluity in the
medical course. By the time a man has
passed his prerequisite to the medical
course, i. e. by the time he has passed
his matriculations, he should be considered to know enough of the general sciences
and of the classics not to be harassed and
hindered by these in his further studies.
The knowiedge that he gains of these in
his studies up to matriculation is amply
sufficient to answer all medical needs, and
to put such subjects in a medical course
Means the necessary waste of golden
hours which should be spent on the more
obvious and practical toundations of
medicine, namely, Biology, Anatomy,
Physiology, Histology, Embryology, BioChemistry, Pathology, and Bacteriology.

If a man has not acquired a taste for
culture by the time he has passed his
matriculations it useless to try to
force it into him in the first two years of
his ccurse. If the man has the taste by
that time he does not need the superfluous subjects.

Culture is a slowly developed perfection, which, before it becomes established
requires the voluntary submersion of
many pregtine instincts, and no amount
of compulsion will engender this trait
in any personality not in a receptive
mood. It is not developed from books
and lectures, it is developed through
human association because human assoc
SO
1S

iation is the only excuse for culture’s
existence.

The above somewhat disparaged subjects impart not one iota more of cultural perfection than the study of physiology and biology, medicine and surgery. Is there any single reason why
they should? Do not medicine and
surgery involve the most varied exercise
of the King’s English, and do they not
require from the brain the exercise of the
highest of its mental functions—reason?
Reason—a function which does not come
into play unless all the subordinate
phases of mental activity are alert and
trained?

Culture does not consist in the ability
to quote ancient authors with the glib
ease of a parrot. Culture does consist
largely in the ability to agreeably
associate with ones fellows with a mind
suitably trained by reason to interest
others of a thinking mature, a mind

 

rae)
ANN
U

 
  
  

15‘ per pkt.
2 5 fot J0°

ALSO iN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufactured Sy

Jmperial Tobacco Co of Canada, Limited.

February 25th, 1926

 

 

King of Ss
CIGARETTES

 
    

 

equally, capable of suggestion and of
reception. I[t will not be developed in
the lecture rooms of English [A and the
History of Thought.

As for the practical side of these undesired subjects, I can say this with the
applause of my conscience that any
additional knowledge which I gained of
the sciences in my first two years of
medicine did not ease or assist me in
any one of my subsequent medical
subjects, or if this seems to be too strong

a statement, the very slight advantages ,

that these sciences may have given is a
shamefully inadequate excuse for their
presence in the course. My matriculation physics has been far in excess of
all needs. My matriculatien chemistry
was ample to allow me to pick up enough
further knowledge, without the aid of
Chemistry IA, 2A, or 4 to pursue a
necessary course in physiological chemistry, to understand it, and to pass it
without difficulty.

The preliminary subjects in the medical course are not the only ones to which
a ridiculously disproportionate amount
of time is given. Hygiene and History
of Medicine in the sixth vear are pathetic
exponents of the concluding year of a
Class A medical college. In these modern days the subject of hygiene could and
should be efficiently and practically
discussed in six or seven popular lectures.
Instead to this compartively unimportant
subject are devoted two hours weekly.

Twenty lectures are given on Medical
History and Medical Ethics. Three
of the lectures are devoted to the really
important subject of Medical Ethics,
while the other seventeen are devoted to
the extremely impractical subject of
Medical History just at a time when the
graduates elect are struggling to scrape
together their knowledge of medicine
and surgery that they may prove themselves capable of practicing their profession.

When a medical man starts a general
practice he is going to make his name and
he will be expected to do his work of
mercy by his efficiency in the practical
application of medicine, surgery, and
obstetrics. As it is, the study of these
subjects is deferred to the last three years
of a six year course. Six years is more
than ten per cent of the average man's
lifetime. Those six years are to prepare him for his economic existence
(economic in every sense of the term) for
the rest of his life, which is, on the
average, half run by the time a man
graduate in medicine.

Thosz six years should be employed
to their fullest advantage and time should
not be wasted by gcing into general
sciences to the extent of being a specialist.

The academic medical man very soon
surrenders his patients to the practical,
sympathetic, and efficient physician.

_ I do not wish to advocate the shortening of the medical course; six years is not
too long, even if it is given over purely to
medicine and ‘surgery. But I do wish
to express my firm conviction that the

unnecessary subjects should be dropped
from the ceurse, and their time giver
over to the practical side of medicine,
surgery, and obstetrics. I do not say
this as one who wishes to avoid these
subjects, but as one who is sorry he
came in contact with them to the exclusion of knowledge the importance of
which he only too well realizes.

_ Another matter to which attention is
frequently drawn by the student is the
waste of time spent in copying didactic
lectures. When a student is rushing
his pen to keep up with the lecturer’s
speech it is impossible for the mind to
absorb the import of what is being said
and the student seldom gains any knowledge of the subject until he reads over

what has been dictated. Text books
much more complete than lecturers’
notes have been written on all these

subjects. Why not use the text books?
Why wast time copying notes which, as
far as the student is concerned simply
results in the profitless writing of another
text book? Text books are written to
be read. A good text book generally
represents the best lectures to be obtained on the subject therein. Or, if
text books cannot be kept sufficiently
up to date, why not have the information
of the most recent advances in a subject
written and mimeographed, and distributed to the students at the beginning
of each year? This would save a tremendous amount of, at pregent, almost
profitless time which could be used to the
greatest advantage in studying and in
clinical work. It would also afford an
opportunity for those who wished to develope along certain lines to do so without
the hindrance of unnecessary lectures,

[ am well acquainted with the difficulty of secession from the present international system of medical education
and I do not advocate such a radical
move as the immediate withdrawal from
the standard course set by the American
Medical Association though I do most
strongly object that Canadian universities should be under the jurisdiction of
American influences. - Even here the
limitations which such a system imposes
on our movements towards better medical education are very obvious.

_ The Dalhousie Medical Faculty to-day
is in no position te make any radical
moves for many reasons. But if the
faculty continues to grow with the
rapidity it has in the past perhaps our
hopes will come true. Here is our
excelsior: May the faculty continue to
grow to such proportions that in time
it will be the dictator of its own policy
that clinical instruction will be the basis
of its teaching, and that its graduates
will be so well known, that it will be
an institution on which many other
universities will be proud to model their
existence.
DON,

R. CHISHOLM,

Medicine '27.

 

 
     

February 25th, 1926

 

a Meeting

h Seating the reception room of the
Halifax Ladies’ College to its full capacity
the members of Delta Gamma gathered
for their fortnightly meeting. The chief
‘business of the evening, beside the few
final touches for the dance, was the discussion of the Junior-Senior criticisms.
The arguments for the abolition of the
traditional criticism of seniors were
‘many, e. g. the impractibility and ina of it, the already existing ‘‘class
day”’ criticism, etc., and finally, on the
motion of K. MacLennan, the motion
“To abolish the Junicr-Senior criticisms”
was carried. A vote of thanks was extended to Miss Blackwocd and_ her
‘staff for the kindness shown to Delta
~ Gamma, and for the kindness of entertaining them in the Ladies’ College
residence. Miss Blackwood replied in
a pleasing manner stating her constant
' interest in Dalhousi2 and especially Delta
- Gamma. A delightful programme was
- then enjoyed. Miss Jean Fraser ac_ €ompanied by Miss Helen Wilson, rendered two selections on her violin, ‘more
wonderfully than ever before.” Miss
Helen Torey, accompanied by her
. sister Pauline, greatly pleased the audi= ance with her two vocal solos. Miss
. reeman, of the Ladie’s College, then
ad in her own charming manner.
Following the dancing the Dal girls were
introduced to the Domestic Science, Art,
and other parts of the Ladies College
buildings. Delicious refreshments were
served and one of the most enjoyable
Delta Gamma meetings came to a close.
Miss Blackwoed was, indeed, a most
congenial and pleasing hostess.

a

 

-_- HE CAME NOT TO BE MINISTERED
- UNTO BUT TO MINISTER.

 

_ Once not far from the palace cf a King
7. And hard by homes with every com‘fort blest,

moh
hy A Babe beside the ox found cradling
r. And in a straw-filled manger took his
. rest.

And in our world to-day where Want

: displays Wer et antes
. Her tattered garments, shivering in the
a
: street, Hg
Where Sorrow faints in unfrequented

; oye : . ‘

7 Lo! in the mire the impress of His feet.
| :

o Alas, if He should stand beside our gate
And we remain unheeding,—if the thin
Supplicating hands were His, and we too

7 late
in ’ Should learn that we had failed to let
] Him in!

Dear Christ, O Peerless Friend, who

i. lowly came

Fy To love and serve man, set out hearts
a ~ on fire

-_- With love like Thine, make brotherhood
our aim,
a And service to mankind our great

desire.
‘
. M. A. B.

 

 

 

i. Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
a THE HOME OF

| Cut Flowers «2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desicns,
. also Weppinc Bouquets. We

\ also do Taste Decoratinsc. We
are the only members of the

le Bo rists. We can wire

Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

     
   
   
  
  

Ie COT NED a ee
o- SS Sannaneaioeaestoemens a4 Pe _
a — :
rail - : ~ hee,
Delta Gamma ey

The fourth of the Engineering Society's
series of winter lectures was delivered
on February 19th by.Mr. A. F. Dyer,
the chief engineer of the N. S. construction Co. Mr. Dyer took as his subject
the building of the Lake Kenogami storage dams, and with the aid of some excellent lantern slides showed the various
stages in the erection of these structures
in a very instructive manner.

Lake Kenogami is situated in the
heart of the southern section of Quebec
Province about a 150 miles from Quebec
city. It is 18 miles long and averages
about a half-mile in width throughout
its course. Despite its comparatively
small size, it has a large number of
tributary rivers which drain a total area
of 1500 square miles of territory, and
since this drainage basin is heavily
wooded with excellent timber, Lake
Kenogami 1s well suited to act as a
clearing station duriag logging operations.
From this lake the logs go by way of two
large rivers into Lake St. John and the
Saguenay.

Some five years ago, Price Bros., who
control the lake, decided that the dams
across the two outflowing rivers did not
provide enough power. for the mills, and
in March 1923 a contract was awarded
for the building of three new dams, The
biggest of these, closing the larger river,
is about 1500 feet long and 80 feet high.
The other two whith are much smaller
shut off the second river, one running
from each shore to an island in. midstream. These dams’ were constructed
in the usual manner by closing off one
part of the river at a time by coffer dams
and building on the section thus. unwatered and’ continuing this until the
dam was completed The greatest
difficulties of construction were the sand
and gravel which constituted the large
part of the bottoms of both rivers, and
the fact that much of the work had to be
done in temperatures far below zero.
This latter was the cause of greatly increased cost brought on by added labour
and much delay, but in spite of this
hindrance and the added hardships which
it entailed, the dams were completed and
handed over in August 1924. They
have since proved their worth by greatly
increasing the power supply for the Kenogami mills.

— -————

TO “DREAMER, ARTS ’29.’’

0 - — 
Sing thy song, O Dreamer, nor care

Who may heed thee or who may listen—

Well is it, well if thou dost repair

One heart alone or make one face glisten,
Sing thy song!

Nor voice ner thought to thyself belong.

WAKE UP!

 

ns Oictonas
FOR MEN

Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to keep up appearances.
These very men are the fellows you see
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords
and Spats.
OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Wallace Bros.

 

523 BARRINGTON ST. Jo NOW PLAYING
Pe bgt 905 MAE EDWARDS CO.

 

 

il A Complete
| Musical Service

Everything that Students
- require in Music, including
| small instruments Of every
description. Sheet Music &
Music Books will be found

PHINNEY’S Limited

li 414 BARRINGTON ST.

   
  
  
  

  

|| DO NOT FORGETHER
| AT EASTER

Flowers are appropriate but not
_ | any more so than a lasting useful
i) gift selected at BIRKS.

Pe

§ ®
a y
i
s

She will think of you every time
} she wears It.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS Ltd.

   
  
   

 

 

NEXT WEEK
MON., TUES., WED.

“SUN UP”

with
PAULINE STARKE

and
CONROD NAGEL

THUR., FRI., SAT.
MAURICE FLYNN

"HIGH and HANDSOME”

A BRASS BUTTONED
DEMPSEY

  

 

  
    
   
   
  

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
First Class Service The Home of the Shingle’

Majestic’ Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

Engineering Notes |A. <.

C A S I N O Dalhousie Student

 
     
   
   
       
   
   
 
        
       
     

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Pettipas

 

Halifax is one of the most beautiful
cities in Canada but alas, its beauty is

marred by many ugly and degrading,

hovels and, at theif weekly meeting, the
Sociology Club heard about some of these
when Mr. A. C. Pettipas, Secretary of
the Health Board, spoke on “The Slums
of Halifax.’’ All the cases he described
were ones investigated by himself and
cases existing today, and it is hard to realise how people can exist at all under such
distressing conditions as were related in
his address.

How would we like to live in these
tumble-down slum-houses with no proper
Sanitation, no water laid in, little or no
fire, with a table cr the floor for bed and
some old coats for blankets; or worse perhaps with the family crowded into one
room with no privacy? Yet hundreds of
people in Halifax are living under such
circumstances.

Is it any wender that sickness and delinquency and crime are created in such
environments? Nay, the marve! is that
$o many boys and girls in these surcoundings grow up straight and honest.
| The Club is deeply indebted to Mr.
Pettipas for his address which surely was
ene to make his hearers think, to make us
all determine that as opportunity arises
we will do what we can to remedy ‘this
state of affairs.

a

Miss Rutherford’s

| Visit

Miss Gertrude Rutherford of Toronto
arrived last evening from Acadia and is
a visitor at Shirreff Hall. She will be
in Halifax until March 1, when she leaves
for Montreal and McGill. Dal is indeed
lucky to have her for four whole days
for Miss Rutherford has lately been
visiting nearly all the universities of
Canada and so brings a wealth of experience to aid in solving student difficulties. In order that every student and
the members of the Staff may meet her,
a supper has been arranged for this
evening—Thursday, the 25th,—in St.
Andrew's Hall at 6 o’clock at a charge of
thirty-five cents per head. After supper
there will be an opportunity to chat with
Miss Rutherford and to discuss the need
and worth of the local, national and world
Student Movement activities.

Friday and Saturday Miss Rutherford
will be free to meet with any student or
group of students who wish to do so.
On Sunday she will be the speaker at a
Student Service in St. Andrew’s Church
at 7 p.m. She will also be at the Sing
Song to be held at Shirreff Hall at 8.30
that evening.

 

 

 

   

MAJESTIC

SPECIAL PHOTO PLAYS
ALL ORCHESTRA SEATS
RESERVED EVENINGS
SEATS NOW ON SALE.

THUR., FRI., SAT.

Johnie Hines
IN

“The Early Bird ”’

SEATS NOW ON SALE

STRAND —

    
       
   

 

  

   

SPEND A GOOD EVENING
COME EARLY

 

 

5

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

   
    

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and

enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always

’ five of the most proficient barbers procur
able on hand. Our Harm Curtenc is sure

satisfy. Lapres’ Harn Curttine in all

styles; also Curtinc, SHAMPOOoING and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.
Phone S 4780 41 Sackville St.

    
     
   
 

   
 
  
 

 

Addresses Club}

 
      
  
 
        
         
   
  
   
   

Distinguish Poets
Visit Pine Hill

Readers of the Gazztle will be interested
to know that among the quests at Pinehill on Friday evening, were several distinguished posts. Being called upon
after dinner to say a few words they,
much to the delight of the company, expressed their appreciation of their invitation to the ‘“‘At Home”’ in characteristic
fashion. For the benefit of those students who were net present I give a brief
resume of their speeches:

Shakespeare:
‘All the world’s a lunch
And all the men and women
courses,
They are the entrees and the savouries,
And one man in his time plays many
tarts.”

merely

Kipling:
“You may think o’ thick an’ clear
You young theologs down ‘ere,
When you gets yer plate o’
starts to curse it,
But when you makes yer supper
On a regimental upper
By the Lord, ye'll think its possible to
worse it.
Oh, hash is hash and cat its cat
And never the twain are meat.”

soup an’

. Tennyson:
‘“‘Immensely I admire your hall,
Tremendously I love your host;
And better to have dined on toast
Than never to have dined at all.”

Burns:

“O friens, sin’ I cam’ tae yer table,

I’ve ate as muckle as I’m able,

Tho’ like the rabbit i’ the fable
The pie was risky:

But och, I’ve missed the Yellow Label—
Man, whaur’s the whiskey?”

Milton:

“Of man’s first gourmandising and the
fruit
Of that forbidden cake—’”’
Unfortunately at this point Walter
Ross and Herbie Davidson, the Pinehill
Poets, fainted and were carried out amid
general confusion: It seems that Walter
Was oversome by the exuberance of poetic
genius and was afraid he’d lose his job as
Poet Laureate of Pinehill, and the mention of fruit cake made Herbie’s mouth
water so that he suddenly swallowed his
wad of gum with disastrous effects. John
Milton’s dignity was greatly offended at
this unseemly interruption and he left the
‘‘At Home” in a huff, much to the disappointment of everybody, including—

THE REPORTER.

 

You know the rest of this

ALPHA BETA alphabet, but won't you

learn the music from a Music Dealer's Text Book.
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, etc.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

SS SS eee — eee

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

*“KELLYS”

FOR

CANES
“The Specialty Shop’’

116 118 GRANVILLE STREET

 

 
  
   
      
    
  

 
   
 
   
    
   
   
 

  
    
   
   
  
   

Page Three

Majestic Notes

 

SPECIAL FEATURES AT THE
MAJESTIC.

A company of thirty-five local stars,
including several performers of ‘‘Domino'’ fame will present a minstrel show
at the Majestic. commencing today.
Fellowing this ‘‘The Early Bird’’, featuring the inimicable Johnny Hines will
be screened. The story deals with the
fame to fortune rise of a milkman who
falling in love with the girl of his dreams,
decides to “‘get somewhere" before asking
her to name the day. A series of stunts
follow, clever and amusing. Of course
‘he gets there’ in the end and her as
well. It is one of the funniest, fastest,
and most exciting pictures of the year.

The first part of next week the Majestic present Robert Kane’s version of
“The Reckless Lady", with Belle
Bennett (no relation to the Professor),
Ben Lyon, Lois Moran, James Kirkwood, Lowell Sherman, and Charlie
Murray! It is from the nove! by Sir
Phillip Gibbs, a story of Monte Carlo
and a woman who stakes love and home
against Fate. “‘She gambled at cards
and lost like a main, but when love was
at stake she fought as only a woman
ean.” !

By special request the three dancers
who performed two weeks ago will again |
be on the program.

 

The Convocation
Week Play

The selection of principals in the play,
“The Private Secretary,”’ by Sir Charles
Hawtrey, to be presented during Convocation week, has been made as follows:—

Rev. Rooert Spalding (the part first
taken by Sir H. Beerbohm Tre:)—Mr,
Eddi2 Murray.

Mr. Cattermols—Mr. Ross Byrne.

Mrs. Stead, a landlady— Miss Gertrude
Mills.

Mr. Sydney Gibson, tailor of Bond St.
— Mr. Phil. Magonet:

Douglas Cattermole—Mr. Bill Clark.

Harry Marsland—M)?. Gerald Godsoe.

Miss Ashford—Miss Harriett MatheSon.

Mr. Marsland M. F. H.—Mr. Stewart
Stevenson.

Edith Marsland— Miss Hazel Pearson

Eva Webster— Miss Alice Nelson.

The supernumeraries will be sélected
as the play progresses. Some twentyfive people were tried out for various
parts before the final selection of the cast
was made. Practices for the play are
proceeding satisfactorily under the able
direction of Major P. E. Prideaux. The
methods of coaching adopted by Major
Prideaux require that one act shall be rehearsed repeatedly until it takes satisfactory form, and then another act be
proceeded with. Practices up to this
time have laid stress on Act One.

The following students are in charge of
the production of the play:

Business Manager—Mr. Bill Cuthit.

Property Manager—Mr: Harry Bell.

Stage Manager—Mr. John Morton.

If You Want to See Well
SeeW ALLACE

T. J. WALLACE

Optometrist & Optician Y M C. A. Bid,

 

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four PreEssIncs

$2.00
Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

 

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices.

Light Lunches and Ice Cream
ARE VERY POPULAR HERE

FAIRLY

crass JEWELRY pricep
H. C, HENDERSON

52 Granville Street, - © Cor. Sackville

 

 
at the College
SUITS, OVERCOATS
and FURNISHIN GS

|W. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX.

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes,

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

  

When in Town

GET THE

Three Essentials

1.
2.

Pure Food and Candy

Prompt and Courteous
Service

Low Prices
AT THE

_ || PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. _—_ Geo. Alexander

|| WINNERS From The

| For 60 years are a, REACH bs sree
|
|
.

3.

 

Mark on Sporting 3 has

a mark of perfection. No eater
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with ll ae le that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
ij) HALIFAX :: N.S.

 

(Continued from page 1, col. 1).

would, in fact; have been utterly impos-|| —  § }§}§}§&}§&§»”™?#W:i
| sible to produce such a play under former
conditions. This valuable equipment
. has been specially made for the Glee Club
. through the courtesy of Major P. E. Prideaux. The fire place used in the enter| tainment is also a gift from the same
. friend. The decoration of the scenery
| was the work of Mr. John Shaw and drew
forth enthusiastic comment from all sides.
The painting of the scenery proved to be
a tremendous undertaking, and Mr. Shaw
must feel gratified at the very artistic result he has achieved. Through the good
offices of Mr. Joe Connolly, an ever helpful friend, two pans of stage lights and
two back drop curtains have been present
ed to the Society by Mr. L. R. Acker.
The piano lamp used in the play was
loaned by courtesy of Phinney’s, Limited.
The electrical effects, which aided the
Eo so materially, were the work of Mr.
arry Bell. Mr. Bell has also charge cf
this end of the production cf the Musical
Comedy “Honi Soit"” to be produced on
the 26th, and an equally effective result
may be confidently looked for. The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society, in a
word, is taking its place as the ‘Workshop 47” of this corner of the globe.
Reaves for ‘‘Cleopatra”’, the twoact opera-burlesque on college life that
will be given. on March 10 are now in ful!
swing. Be sure and keep the date open,
so as not to miss this screamingly funny
show, which has unusually beautiful and
catchy music.
The Cast i is as follows:—
illiam’ "—Arthur Jardine.
“Caesar”—Hordon Bowles.
“Pompey”’—Frank McDonald.
Anthony"'—Chalmers Wickwire.
“Cleopatra’’—Lee Chisholm.
with members of the Male Chorus.

pene etncn » \

 

 

Interfaculty
___ Hockey

Law Il. Eng. 0.

Law won their first Interfaculty Hockey game at the Studley igloo last Thurs:
day morning by defeating Engineers 1-0.
Gibb's gcal about the middle of the first
period gave the Le eye their victory.
It was the result of a nice piece of work,
Doyle to Gibbs to Doyle and back again
to Gibbs, who beat the goalie with a
wicked shot. Law had by far the margin
of territory and the Engineers can thank
Beaten for keeping the score down to one.
His work was outstanding. For Law,

Gibbs, Doyle and Godsoe were the pick,
though the whole team played well.
Richardson in the Law net was unbeatable, handling the lone shot in a masterly
manner and clearing nicely. Engineers
were most ably represented by Beaton,
DuVernet and Lowe. Line up:—Law—

Richardson, Godsoe, McInnes, Gibbs
Fairbanks, Doyle,. Engineers—Beaton,
Falconer, Murray, DuVernet, Lowe.

“Henry” Hudson refereed to everybody’ s
satisfaction, but being without skates was
greatly hampered i in his movements over
the ice and thereby missed many offside
plays on both sides.
Commerce 3. Arts 0.

Commerce rather upset the dope by
beating All Star Arts team last Wednesday morning. They put it all over the
Arts men giving them few chances to
break away, for when they did they were
promptly dumped into the snow banks
which lined each side ofthe rink, The
score gives a fair indication of the play
though Phinney in the Commerce net had
perhaps a more difficult time than McKenzie, who ably guarded the Arts citadal. Line up:—Arts—McKenzie, Foley,
Deckrill, McLean, Redmond, Ross.

| Commerce—Phinney, MacDonald, Snow,

Miller.

Small
But Important

Munroe, Grant, McColl,

YOUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat
may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLtar
you wear—it is the one article of
dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
that confidence which comes from
good grooming—they have just the
proper noe and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no welldressed man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,
which is so acceptable.

L 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry
85 West St.

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and Colleg. - ext Books

Commercial and Soc alti. Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS 7

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Interfaculty
Basketball

Saturday afternoon saw some very
good, and in most cases very close, games
played in the Gym.

Law 9. Med. 20.

This was probably the most unexpected upset in the league this year, as Law
was favored to win the league in straight
games. The first period was close, 8-7 for
Medicine, and produced the best play of
the game. In the second Medicine walked away from their neighbours in the
Forrest Bldg. and emerged from the
smoke with a well earned victory under
their belts. Law—Richardsen 4, Doyle
2, Mitchell 3, McInnes, Coughlan.
Medicine—Richardson 10, Beardsley 8,
Bayne 2, Doull, McLean, Baird.

Engineers 16 Arts 18.

Making a remarkable second period
come back Arts beat the Engineers in the
second game. Engineers were leading
14-1 at the end of the first period but
when the game was called Arts were in
the lead by two points. Engineers—
Brown 8, McKeagan 2, Allan 4, Currie,
Lowe, Beaton 2. Arts—Hockin 4, Hood
5, Jardine 1, Baxter 4, H. Ross 4, W.
Ross, Grant.

Commerce 15. Dentistry 6.

Commerce had it all over the Dentals
and sent them down to a 15-6 defeat.
This game was very one sided. Dentistry who rather roughed things up a bit
found Commerce a harder nut to crack
than they found Law the week before, and
went smash. Commerce led at the end
of the first period 7-2. Commerce—Miller
8, Smith 2, Matherson 2, Macdonald 8,
Grant ,Harris. Dentistry—Dobson, Oldfield, Oldfield 4, Godsoe, Duxkerry,
Tupper 2, Sullivan.

DAL. 37. St. GEORGES 30.

In Overtime Battle

Dal. nearly came a cropper Saturday
night in the pa Senior League game
against St. Georges. Dal. was in the
lead until about the middle of the first
period when St. George’s forged ahead,
and came out on top by one point at the
end of the first period 18-17. In the second Dal. tried hard but the shcoting and
passing were poor. However, they managed to turn the tables on St. George’s by
one point making the score 30-30 and necessitating an overtime. In the overtime
Moore saved the day by dropping in two
beautiful shots while Langstrcth collected one anda foul. Line up—Langstroth
9, McLennen 11, McLeod 6, Smith 1,
Moore 6, Hewar 4,

For Distinctive Style and
All-round Excellency

** Astoria’
SHOES

For Men

Stand out as the Leaders in
Canadian Footwear.

W. L. Tuttle

SHOE DEALER

Barrington St., Spring Garden Road
and Dartmouth

 

 

 

The Dress Shop
The Hat Shop
~ The Coat Shop

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail.

Jensen & MillsCo. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

 

Cable Address: ““McINNES”
McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Souicitors &c.
se a eg

HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.
Scare o oe & y NN aed K...¢
i. A; Lovett, K. Cc. N. E. MacKay

 

   
    
 

Dalhousie - Kings

—

Marion Campbe!!

 

Stars.

Dalhousie Co-eds won the opening
game of the girls Intercollegiate basketball league by defeating Kings 41-11 last
Friday “night. There were only a few
present, pe rhaps fifty in all. While
King’s men comprised about 50% ef the
spectators there were only three Dalhousie men in attendance, Kings started out well and were nip and tuck with
Dal. for the first period. For a team
wanting experience and handicapped by
lack of material co draw from the Kings
girls certainly gave a good account of
themselves.

In the second Dal. woke up and “got
going’ and by good combination and
accurate shooting soon piled up a safe
margin. Kings however were by no
means out of the picture and fought until
the last whistle. Dal’s center was not in
usual form and was rather weak. For
Kings the two forwards and the centre
Alice Prowse were the best. K. Smith
got some very good baskets. The shooting of the forwards in the first period was
also very poor. Dal. meets Kings again
on March 2, John W. MacKenzie, of
the Tech. handled the whistle in a satisfactory but somewhat lenient manner.
Line up—Dal.—M. Campbell 22, EL.
Archibald 11, A. Atherton 8, M. Thompson, M. Borden, B. Freeman, H. Roberts. Kings—M. Markham Ge He
Smith 6, A. Prowse, V. Card, M. Dau
phinee, E. Cavicchi, M. Dominey, A.
Hebb.

ROMANCE.

 

( Novelette).

They happened to be on the same car
together and he thought, as he watched
her, that he had never seen such a divinely beautiiul creature before. Her hair
was that lovely golden brown that one
sees so seldom and her deep blue eyes
were like twin pools of liquid twilight- -sky.
Her delicate features were exquisitely
chiselled and the color of her cheeks was
that of a milk-dipped rose, while her
flowing garments clung to her as though
they loved her.

Even as he looked at her, she fixed her
eyes interestedly on him. Where had
she seen a handsomer sheik than this
blond Adonis? What a perfectly-shaped sleek head he had! And those soft
brown eyes, how they made her heart
flutter as they looked across at her. What
sculptor, she thought, ever had a more
magnificent profile to model? His perfectly fitting collar and flawlessly-tasteful tie but enhanced her admiration of
him, while his suit—she closed her eyes
in ecstasy.

They’re still making love to each other
as they continue their jour ney—though
they've never met. You see there are
difficulties in the way; for as he’s an ad,
for Arrow Collars, so she is one for Holeproof Hosiery and they’re stuck up opposite each other in a Belt Line Car.

LE PROFESSEUR RIANT.
“Monsieur La Blanc, vous avez croix,
Récitez s’il vous plait.
“Oh professeur, ma téte de bois,
Ne sait la fable frangais:

 

‘“Mais je récite toutes tes gloires;
Ton sourire doux et gros;
Ta téte brillante, polie et noire
Vous font un ‘‘shiek’’—‘‘vieux not.”

‘Toujours, toujours, vous souriez
Ilest trés amusant.
De voir un homme si trés heureux,

Mon professeur riant.”’

    

$24.00

Suit or

Over Coat

to your measure. Best value

in Canada.

See the many advantages
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your
clothes,

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

 

SPORT NEWS Yo

February 25th, 1926

 

Dal-Acadia

DAL. 34. ACADIA 28.

 

McLennan Stars.

Dal. won the second game of the home
and hom: series cf exhibition games from
Acadia !ast week, before an enthusiastic
crowd of about a hundred rooters, The
play opened up fast andin no time Langstroth had sunk two baskets. Then
Acadia climbed ahead and gave the Dal.
suppcrters a nasty few minutes. MceLennoa came off and Clark went on. The
wisdom of this mcve was seen later on in
the game when McLennon fresh from a
good rest practically won the game for
Dal. The period ended with Acadia in
the lead by three points. The second
also opened fast and remained so, Dal.
coming to life and almost doubling Acadia’s score. McLennon came on and
dropped in basket after basket with clock
like regularity. McLeod also sunk some
very pretty ones. But Acadia was not to
be cutdone. They hung on treachously
and encouraged by the happy squeels of

‘Atta Otto!’ from a feminine admirer
they fought until the last ditch. Ak
Smith who was relieved by Moore came
back again and made his presence felt
whenever an Acadian took a trip down
the floor. Bradshaw who refereed an
impartial game, blew the whistle on a
34-28 victory for Dal. For Dal. MacLennon was the outstanding figure closely followed by McLeod and Smith,
Langstroth who collected 16 points in
Wolfville, only managed to garner 5,
being away off his shot. Doyle and
Moore, also showed up well, but Clark
found the going rather heavy and didn’t
seem to get started. For Acadia the
Noble brothers were the pick of a very
good team. After the game Acadia were
entertained at Mader’s to a very informal
dinner. Itisa pity that a University of
Dalhousie’s size is forced to entertain
their visiting teams in down town restaurants. There should be scme place
within the University precints where
visitors can be entertained in true Dalhcusie form. Line up:—Langstroth 5,
McLennan 16, McLeod 13, Clark, Smith,

Moore, Doyle. Bie Aes Bradshaw, refereed.

 

THIN-SPUN,

 

Once Love was mine, Love fair as one
night’s snow,

She came to me on a dewy dawn in

Sprin :

Flown is my Love, and where I do not
know.

(I keep one silvery feather from her
wing, 4

That sorrow—healing sweetness it may
bring)

Lost is this Love of mine in some deep—
hidden place,

Her little moth- quiet feet have left no
trace.
UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA.

HUDSON’S BAY COMPANY RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP.

The above fellowship,

ibove of the annual
value of $1,500.00, tenable at the University of Manitoba, in any branch of

pure or applied science, open to graduates
of any Canadian Unive ‘rsity, will be filled
for 1926 about May Ist. Ap plications
should be in the hands of the Registrar of
Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba, by April Ist. Further particulars
on application. Address

THE REGISTRAR,

University of Manitoba,
Winnipeg, Manitoba,

Winter-Burns Ltd.

Exclusive Agents For

Society Brand Clothes

Correct Dress For Students

437 Barrington Street

 

High Class Barber

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS
BARBERS in attendance.

SpeciAL Bogspinc Partors
For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 

 

 
