     
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
   
     
  
   
     
 

Professor Bennet had ‘‘done it
ain” would be high praise but I feel
in this case itisinsufficient. He has
ited a group of more aptly chosen
jn an even superior manner to
ar. At first one was inclined to
- the absense of scenery, but as the
‘s proceeded this was altogether for‘ten, obliterated by the finished perrmance of the players.
‘rofessor Bennet opened the enterinn ent with a few words of explaination regarding ‘‘English 9” and the plays
which they were presenting. The stunts, he said, were not prospective
actors, the plays not finished productions,
with the facilities obtainable this was
impossible, so he requested the audience
‘o forgive their shortcomings.

The curtain then rose on the first
play, ‘‘Wurzel-Flummery,”’” by Milne,
a comedy of modern English life.  H.
=f 8B. Ross as Robert Crawshaw, M. P.
-—s- was outstanding. He appeared to be
-—s perfectly at ease and his deep voice was
ae S Blanchard

   
  
   

  
  
   

well suited to the part.
- Thompson was rather stiff but his own
_ ~~ inimitable personality, breaking out from
beneath that of Richard Merton M. P.

made a place for him in the hearts of his

7 grt

 
     
     
  
    
  
  
 
    
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  

   
   

audience. Dot Berry was essentially
> - Dot Berry throughout and as such gave
. : a most pleasing rendition. As the meek
and obedient wife of a great man Elinor
we stead was very effective. As Mr.
is Clifton, Lee Chisholm had a part
which suited him well, but in places he
rather lacked conviction. .
_. Eugene O'Neill's ‘‘Ile’’ was the next
play. It is from the modern American
ol of drama and possessed, in a high
, that harshness which is so charie tiene Fitz Randolph gave
rkable performance. She had a
icult oe and the daceo! } pane
was a far greater handicap here
“other plays. Despite this
in ive, giving one
xhibition of
cCurdy was also
another difficult role. He
e the ir pression of power so essential
to the part but rather lacked force and
conviction in the closing scenes. Harold
Wilson, as the steward, while possessing
pleasing delivery, appeared il! at ease
d did not work enough action into his
ut. Chalmers Wickwire gave a realis¢ interpetation as the second mate.

: i, “Press Cuttings,’ is another one of
fo : The sugar

   
  
  

    
    
 
  
   
 

~* r

 

 
  

     

a
“i

a

'
Pa Li
iw oe

    
 

Shaw's sugar-coated pills.
was delightful, but was rather ‘‘too much

    

You have heard of readers who turn
to the conclusion of a story, so impatient

7 ee they to find how it ends, when they
have hardly arrived at the first death.
I am such a one, and find myself under
the same disability in writing a story.
I want to get to the conclusion; I have
not the patience to start with merely a

(fhe
) 7
js 2
yoy
"

a

6 ee ata

ie

Mame; to stuff it and animate it till it
becomes a human being; nor, this done,
have I the heart to deform into a mere
heroine or hero my laboured human
being. How much easier it is to assum:
| such necessities—to let x be a man and
se it ya professor. ;
‘Give me a hero and a heroine; the
profession of law for the former, a ‘‘lifework” for the latter, and love for both.
Give me also permission, if the three of us
- can agree, to join them in holy wedlock.
Give me these premises, | say, and I—
__ Darii Ferioque Prioris—will give you a

worthy conclusion. A hero and a heroine— I will lead the pair as pretty a
as two thousand words will allow:

ee _ chase
_-- souse them in the Slough of Despond,
tide them on the Maritime Express, and
take them to the very gates of the Celesul City. Into a web about them | will
nd the threads of my story—drawing
em inevitably together yet holding
1em hopelessly apart. Then, cutting
the web, the knife will come down, swift
and merciful. To the oblivion whence
they came the pretty pair will return.
It is not because the surroundings of
a heroine should be heroic that | introduce Mary Scot in Halifax. 1 make this
city the scene of my stcry’s beginning
, ee I find it easy. 1 always have
_ difficulty in casting my thoughts about—
_ in throwing them over oceans, or heaving
_ them across continents, Halifax, I say,

   
 
 
     

 
  

     
  
 
  
   
  
    
   
   
   
        
     
   
 
   

SS eS a
.

- a ee Be : Fee :

anh c ‘ + 7 ;

ry eae :

= ; + 7 , -..

i . = ;

b
e:

a September afternoon Mary
ced in her father’s garden. She reed herself with difficulty as she
listened to Bob Free. She was drawn
n two directions: she wanted to yield

' %

o him; yet she couldn’t—there was her

[ can’t understand you Mary,” he|5

“What has a‘ life work’ to do with

They Also Serve.

Nine Scores Triumph.

pill.’ The kardwood seats of the hall
became even harder than before, and
several times | was obliged to suppress
an ‘'© psbaw!"’ However this is no
reflection en the performers. E. M.
McLeod had a tong, difficult, and sometimes tiresome role which he interpreted
pleasingly. If at times he forgot his
lines, and the melodious voice of Professor Bennet was heard ringing down the
hall to the enlightenment of actor and
audience, he could hardly be blamed.
Seymour Gordon as tie prime minister
was excellent and his suavity was most
becoming for a gentleman of the name of
Balsquith. He gave a finished performance. Molly Beresford was very real
as the char-woman and her ‘‘Irish”’ accent
most fitting. Freda Winfield was convincing as a lady of fashion and Rita
Merton although self-conscious was
effective. However to Chalmers Wickwire must be given tae highest honors.
He was wonderful. His very entrance
on the stage was the signal for a surge of
mirth and expectation which swept over
the hall. His ingenious smile and easy
manner might have been the envy of
many professionals.

The first act of ‘Quality Street’, by
Sir James Barrie, was the closing number. It made an interesting contrast
with “‘fle’’: both highly dramatic, yet
one was harsh and cruel, the other winsome and whimsical. The honors were,
I think, evenly divided between Florence
MacMullen and Harriet Roberts. Miss
MacMullen was charming and delightfully unsophisticated and while | found
her modulation a little monotonous at
times I feel almost ashamed for finding
fault. Harriet Roberts was the typical
“Prudence Prim’, coy and innocent.
But it was rather hard to understand
just how she had escaped the snares of
matrimony. I feel sure that Barrie
would have been delighted with her performance as indeed with the whole play.
Jarvis McCurdy was the typical cavalier,
carefree, breezy, and radiating personality. Seymour Gordon was also good
although it was difficult to conceive of
Seymour as. very ‘‘dashing’’. Marion
Robb was ‘a perfect old maid (in the
play) and Edith Hallett, May Hines, and
Edith Macneill were very good in minor
parts. The very atmosphere of the play
was remarkably true.

Again I must congratulate Professor
Bennet and the entire cast on their high
achievement.

L: M.

 

love? You say you are going to devote
your life to the service of Nova Scotia
I’m going to stay here; I have given up
ae British Columbia; I told you
that.’

“Tl know, Bob,”’ Mary answered, “and
I’m awtully glad. 1 wish I could marry
you, but don’t you see that would intertere with my work.”

“What tis your work anyway?” he
asked. “‘Do you know what you are
going to do?”

“That's not very nice of you Bob;
you know I haven't decided yet. I've
always planned it. I’m going to do
something big for Nova Scotia—work
for her and make her a better place.
And I simply can’t be married.’’ Mary
paused. “I will serve Nova Scotia,”
she finished. Involuntarily she put her
hand to her throat—there was a dull
ache there, almost as though she wanted
toery; andall that day the eche remained.

A couple of weeks later Mary returned
for her senicr year at McGill. To friendships and scholarships she returned; for
Mary carried off in a manner creditable
to any story the part of heroine. It was
the best of four good years and for that
reason the shortest. As spring came on
she began to think of what she weuld do
when she had graduated. It was difficuit
to decide—there were so many opportunities. She might reform the school
system, she might do some sort of social
work, she might go into politics. She was
determined to serve her province, but
determination didn’t help her to decide.

She wrote her father. “‘l have always
known,” he replied, “that you loved
Nova Scotia, but | fear what you want
will be difficult te find.” It was a new
view to Mary: she thought it a matter
of choosing, but her father said “finding,”’
She fought against discouragement.

_ “There are so many things that I can
do,” she said and decided to talk with
someong more knowing than her father.
A social-service worker, though Mary
didn’t believe all she said, surprised her.
She talked with others.

(Continued on page 3, col. 2).

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 18th 1926

Fred McInnes

—_—_—

Year Beck Disallowed.

Gn Tuesday at noon tie first meeting
of the Student Council elect was held in
the Munro room. The main items of
business were the election of officers for
the coming year, the Year Book question,
and that hardy annual, Freshman Hazing,
The office of President of the Council
for 1926-27 was conferred on Mr. Fred
McInnes. Mr. McInnes is a member of
the Law Class of 1927, who has had a
wide business experience, and his election
assures the Uaiversity of a sound business
administration next year. Miss Helen
Wickwire was unanimously elected VicePresident, and the Council showed its
continued confidence in Gerald Godsoe
by re-electing him to the position of
Secretary-Treasurer. Elections for the
Finance Committee resulted in the appointment of Messrs. Rankin, Merrit,
and Fraser, and the executive chosen
were Messrs. Dobson and Smith and Miss
Avis Marshall.

Rev. Dr. Gordon
at Dalhousie

“The people throughout the West are
accustomed to think of Nova Scotia as the
principle source of Canadian iatellect,”’
so said the Rev. Dr. Gordon speaking
at the Dalhousie gymnasium at noon
last Saturday.

One of the reasons for this, he continued, is that Nova Scotia has a history,
while the West has none, adding, in his
pleasing humor, that he himself was
probably the oldest thing in Winnipeg!
A second reason for the truth of this
Western belief, said Dr. Gordon, is the
strong Scotch element which at all times
has had a dominating influence on the
intellectual and spiritual development of
our province. For the school and the
church are two essentially Scotch institutions.

Dr. Gordon then touched upon some of
the broader aspects of religion, that is,
of Christian religion, for, said he, ‘‘the
Christian religion is the only religion
worthy of respect.”

Whether we agree with this and other
views to which Lr. Gordon gave utterance, his own personality, and the mellow, impressive tone of his voice made all
those present feel as if inspired by tne
sincerity of his beliefs—a _ sensation
which in some degree atoned for tne
students’ general regret in not having
heard Ralph Connor as well as Dr,
Gordon.

In closing Mr. Jarvis McCurdy, the
chairman, expressed in few words the
deep appreciation which the students felt
for Dr. Gordon’s presence among them,
and particularly he thanked him in the
name of the Student’s Christian Association, under whose auspices he had kindly
consented to speak.

 

THE DREAMER.

All day | dream and hope to see

A better world, a better life;

And in the temple of my mind

There spins the close of armour'd strife.

 

[ cannot tell my dreams to men,—
The better things I| plan;

But one by one I treasure them
To help my fellow-man.

“A dreaming fool, unpractical,”’
Loud yelps the cynic-schemer:

Yet wise men often learn from fools,
So L’ll dream on, a dreamer.

.

SCRIBO

—_— —- -——_— _———

Superiority of English instrvetors of
the University of Caitifornia over any
other:

An English instructor in the University of California recently won a
Charleston endurance contest by dancing
45 minutes, or 5 minutes longer than his
nearest Opponent.

oe

Reason for female iaflux of college
discovered at the University of Denver:

A professor of psychology at the University of Denver states that nine out of
tem women go to college to find a husband.

 

—_——-——

Prefessor Howard Murray: ‘That
word occurs in ycur exercise Mr. B.
oftener than in all the rest of Greek
Literaturg.”

(And Mr. B. still insists that this was
a compliment),

nae CCC

f

oe

  

   

(hi
ee

TTT

Five Cents The Copy

Dalhousie Losesto Mt. Allison.

(Argosy Weekly),

The fifth consecutive victory in t 1%
Intercollegiate debating series was won
by Mount Allison Taursday evening,
wren they defeated a team representing
Dalhousie University, at Fawcett Memorial Hall, Sackville. Supporting tre
negative side of the question, ‘Resolved
that an Imperial council wit) repres?ntatives from the Dominions should be
established with full contrel over tue
foreign policy of the British Empire,”
the Mount A. team woa the unanimous
decision of the three judges selected to
render their vote on the merits of the
respective teams. This victory gives
Mount Allison a total of seventeen victories since the establishing of the Intercollegiate league and insures her
position at the head of the series, which
position she jointly holds with Acadia
University. The victory Thursday night
was doubly appreciated because of the
fact that in the five straight wins we have
defeated each of the Maritime Universities in turn, the last defeat sustained
by the Garnet and Gold being at the
hands of the Dathousie team in 1921.

The debate provided abundant interest
from the standpoint of the audience in
that sparkling repartee made its appearance on several occasions. Discounting
our college loyalty the judges’ decision
was a very popular one, and our representatives earned the necessary margin
by their style, argument and delivery.
The two teams were entertained at
Allison Hall after the debate where the
representatives of the teams, faculty and
the judges gave short speeches after the
serving of a banquet.

The judges were Mr. F. L. Milner, K.
C.;.-of Amherst, Mr. W. J. S. Miles,
Principal of the St. John High School,
and Mr. G. F. G. Bridges, of the firm
of Bridges and Allen, Moncton: .

The debaters were introduced by
President G. J. Trueman, who, in his
address of introduction also extended
a welcome to the visiting debaters.

Mr. S. H. Brown, the leader of the
affirmative, opened the debate for
Dalhousie by expressing greetings from
one sister university to another and
seconded these remarks with a plea for
increase bonds of friendship between the
two colleges.

The introductory portion of his speech
was occupied in outlining the needs for
an Imperial Council for the foreign affairs

The Strongest Thing
in the World

A’ great long time ago, before the
white man came to our country, Indians
lived away to the westward, perhaps
across the great water. And over them
all ruled one man as chief—1e was very
old, very wis? and very strong. But he
had no son, and being wise, he knew that
a man is only as strong as the numer of
his sons.

He grew very old and stil no son
came to him. Then one day he called
the young men of his tribe together and
s1id to them. “That young man shall
be my son who in one year shows m2 th:
strongest thing in the world; stroqger
than sun, stronger than mountairs
stronger than rivers at flood.

So all the young men set out te search
and they brought back many strange and
wonderful things to their old chief:
pieces sf hemp-rope—strong as forty
coyotes chained together; poison lik»
rattlesnakes; glistening diamonds. But
the old man only shook his head.

Then ene day a youth named Theeka
started cut and he vowed that he woul |
not return until he was sure.

For many days he walk»d—for there
were no horses then— x» until
he had gone where no man had been
before, and then at last he saw across
the burning sand a great animal move aad
when he came up to it he saw it was an
elephant. And he said to himself
‘This is indeed the strongest thing in the
world” and he started t» fellow the
elephant.

But one day he saw cn the horizon
another object—a tiny spot and when
he came nearer he saw that it was a
very beautiful young woman. She nodded to the youth and tcok up her place
beside him and for a time they went on
thus. Several times she fell and
scrambled to her feet again, but one time
Theeka locking back saw that she did
not rise. He could net go back for
fear of losing the elephant but his heart
died within him. He went on ever
looking back but never losing sight of
the quarry until at last he could stand
it no longer. Taking one last look at
the elephant “‘Gcod-bye strongest thing”

walked

DP

of the dominions. The dominions within
tae British Empire must stand together
but taiis concert of action will not be
possible if the British foreign office continues to control the foreign policy of the
dominioas.

Sentiment s1ould not decide whether
such a council is a necessity as concerted
action on tie part of tae dominions
is indispensible. The only true estimate
of its future value must be based on the
lessons learned from the histery of empire
building. .

His following remarks dealt with the
value of the British fleet in the late war
which was only necessary through the
growth of an overseas empire. This
war also proved the deficiency and unreliability of the machinery within the
empire and this situation has been steadily growing worse in later years. If the
British Empire is to continue, a single
foreign policy must be advocated for the
empire as a whole. Our well being is
linked up with the other dominions,
t:eretore such a change is a necessity.

Mr, A. W. Trueman opened fire for
the negative by explaining the terms,
dominions, foreign policy and full control. These he said, meant se!f-governing countries, course of action dealing
with foreign affairs, and complete jurisdiction as an executive body respectively.
[nis foreign policy could refer either to
matters concerning the empire as a whole
or to questions bearing separately upon
the different units of this body. In the
first event war would be the greatest
question while in the second instance,
treaties, negotiations and tariffs would
be referred to, But the declaring of war
lately has been assumed by the League
of Nations, thus removing this momentous question from the foreign policy.

The spirit of a Dominion nationalism has been prevading empire politics at the present time, not selfish, excessive nationalism, but the true right
of every people for self-government.

He went on to prove that this development of the nationalistic spirit is natural,
right, and ought to be encouraged, also
this Imperial Council is directly opposed
to any such spirit and must not be established,

The geographic position and individual
history of each dominion prevents the
formulating of the same foreign policy

(Continued on page 4, col. 1).

To Spring

The spring is here, and cn yon filmy spray

The shimm'ring dew lies sparkling in th
sun.

In maple trees the sap begins to run,

And all things joyful wake to greet the
day.

A thousand feathered
their lay.

Beside the gurgling brook the farmer's

minstrels chant

son,

After the evening chores have all been
done,

Watches, with eager eyes, the trout at
play.

Then pulse the veins with streams of
living joy.

The whisp’ring breeze wafts music o’er
the lea,

And fills the heart cf every girl and boy,

As in the twilight shadow croons the
dove,

And to his mate reveals his swelling joy,

The youth and maiden whisper thoughts
of love.

Mr. Ritchie (Maths. 1. C.): ‘I didn't
know a thing about it so I walked out of
the room wth the bous‘ly quiz in one
hand and a look of contempt in tha
other,”’

a
he said.'I go batk to her | love’ and his
spirit diea within him but his heart sang.

He went back to ths beautiful girl and
found she was not hurt. He lifted her
te her feet and she folded her soft young
arms about his neck and gave him her
softer, sweeter lips.

And suddenly there came upon their
ears the songs of birds in spring and
turning they saw the elephant standing
near a sparkling river. And the elephant
stopped by the river, stopped so long,
while a little Toc-hee bird built its nest
in its side, that it turned to stone and
lives for ever.

The Theeka knew; and taking his
beautiful girl he went back and to his old
chief he said ‘‘I have found the strongest
thing in the world. It is love!’ And
the old chief bowed his head and said

“Tl have not known love and so I die,’.

 

 
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

eee 66 | L : 99 All at once I came upon her, an old woman sitting on a heap of
Fi = eae 4 é - | J ‘ . * ® .
io JALHOUSIEC Gawette ; stones crooning a low plaintive song. Why did my heart beat faster?
it a ee. et Ley a LA . Why did I stop short and then turn away? As I did so she rose and
ra ; + ~ y Pp °
: Mette S. C85 PG ‘ a (Founded 1869) beckoned to me so that I went up to her. Strange and meaningless
: is i on ee ey were the words she spoke: ,
24 ges ee eat ae ee ‘You can have it, the wine that gives wisdom and speech.’ Then
ae : eee k be Munest, 3p. I saw that in her hand she held a golden cup whose rim was studded
ae 4 with precious stones.
gs —— , > . Associate Editors: ‘I do not want it, good mother,’ I answered, trembling a little.
ay eee oe - : Mary A. Beresrorp, 26. i Passat
oe ee La a" . Avis H. Marswautz, 27, You have prayed for it, ‘ ‘
, a- ee : ‘Not I. What do you mean?’ I said.

Rowatp Hayes, 26,
Warren Pusuicover, 26,
J. J. Lysoxs Arwoop, '28.

‘Are you not he that would fain see visions and weave them into
words? Are you not he who would rebuild the world and make
all things beautiful? Would you not rejoice to stir men with your
words and to move men with your verses when the heart that made
them and the hand that wrote them are with the dust? Drink! The
wisdom of scholars will be folly to you, your folly the greatest wis
Phone $1961, dom; sorrow at your bidding will change to content, and content
| Subscription Rates: $1.00 per year. to a bitter-sweet sorrow. Life will not bewilder you, even Death
. will seem gracious to you, nor will the meaning of Love be hidden

from you.’
After Graduation--What?

She was silent, or rather her voice. seemed to melt into the sound

of the wind among the trees.
‘What do you mean?’ I asked again.

. ‘If you would be a scholar and a poet, take this cup.’ a

. If it is not quite true that by the time he has obtained a degree I stretched out my hand. ‘Stay!’ she cried, ‘Are you willing

- the average student has become disinclined to set much store by|to pay the price?’

academic distinctions—and we have even met alumni who told us ‘W hat must I give?’ I asked. Mel hoa

that the reverence in which these are held by the vulgusisoneofthe} | ‘Nothing is given for nothing,’ she replied. Knowledge is bought

few really gross superstitions of the age—it at least goes without say- | with a price but finds little sale among men, and poetry is no market
ing that nine graduates out of ten discover with dismay that the de-|able ware. Your vision must be kept clear, your mind alert, so you

: grees and the distinctions they have laboured to attain threaten to|may never know the pleasures that other men know. The love you

; repay the labour rather poorly. sing will never come to you, sorrow will wait upon you, temptation

‘ It is not merely a question of insufficient pecuniary remunera- will prevail with you more than with other men, success will haply

tion; the man who wishes to make money ought to avoid the Uni-|stay far from you. As men judge, your life will be poor and broken;

Sor versity as he would the plague. But the true student enters college when you dle it is likely your only monument will be a few green
Pas _. with a desire to be qualified by study there for association with the
~~. noble powers and professions that move the world, mould its thought,
: and improve its condition; and it is not unnatural that we should re
Financial Editor:
Cuas. F. MacKenzie,
18 Walnut St.,

 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
   

   
   

blades of grass. The price is very high.’ .
‘But the ware is previous. Give me the cup.’ She gave it to
me and I drank. Such a draught I have never since tasted, harsh,

a EE uly
ere

cae gard it as an unkindly blow, that, when we have completed our train-}almost bitter it seemed at first, then sweet, very sweet, and as I
is _-___‘ ing and are required to move into the ranks of real life, we discover |drank thought chased thought through my head, and music whose
_ our sheer incapacity. We seem to be very little further on than|beauty and majesty wrought pain through my soul, seemed to

ce crash in my ears. I looked at the blossoming moon and the company of the stars in the sky; they seemed to blaze with a new
splendour. I looked at the old woman, her tattered garments had
become shimmering robes of blue, a star-like jewel shone in her dark
hair, and her face was the most solemn, the most beautiful that I
have ever seen.

“You have chosen well,’ she said.”’

The old man sighed, and bowed his head on his breat and was
silent.

“Go on,” I pleaded, ‘“‘that cannot be the end of the story.”’

“Have I not said enough?” said the old man. ‘‘There was
nothing I heard that night that has not since come true, but that’s
neither here nor there.”’

“But who are you?”’

Again came the low chucking laugh,
asks?”

And with that he closed his eyes and was silent for the rest of
the journey.

His story came back to my mind when the Editor started his
two weeks work campaign. Two weeks, two months, two years—

when we entered; our degrees mean little to us, even less to those

_ who hold sway in the world of affairs, and are highly esteemed only
by theignorant. When we leave college we are qualified for nothing

but to teach what we have been taught, and very few of us indeed

are anything like qualified even to do that. 3

~The American Universities’ Graduation Day, known to us as

Convocation, is called Commencement, and it is true that we are
only at the beginning of life when we leave college, and, in spite of

our opening sentence, we believe that we ought to be happy to begin
at the beginning. But the point of our complaint is that the Univer_-—._ sity might very well, if not very easily, be linked with the world with-—— «gut in a manner that would secure some continuity, and obviate the

___-waste of time and talent involved now when even men (and women)
_-. _~ who have accomplished practically all that is open for a man at
____ eollege to accomplish, have to wander about looking for any kind of a
post that they can by any means fill.

+ ‘The evil results of this are obvious to any who are sufficiently
-—-—s elear-sighted. On the one hand, we see men of undoubted brilliance
| forced into odd occupations from which there is small hope that they
| will ever be set free, and in which they can have no range for the em
Pl MAO? atic

A ag

I asked, ‘Tell me that.”
‘‘And who are you that

st. ployment of their gifts; and, on the other hand, we see men perforce | nay a lifetime is all too short to gain even the tiniest speck of the
. it i i h b ited, and for| wisdom of the ages. So when the Editor asked me to write this
a entering professions for which they are by no means suited, and for [ the ag
A which they have no zeal, or it may even be no sincere respect. week S Editorial [ thought I would tell you the old man’sstory. The
els There are, no doubt, unemployables in the Universities as} interpretation of it I cannot tell you; each of us must find the mean- elsewhere; ‘ there are no doubt, some men who cannot decide earlier |ing for himself.
ao what their life’s work shall be; and there may also be a predestined M. A. B.

Be few who must find their work for themselves because it is not of the

a

world and the world cannot give it to them.

But certainly it would not be requiring too much if we asked
the University to do all in its power to bridge the gap that still lies
me between its partly-trained men who require to do work and the work
; of so many kinds that requires to be done. We do not suggest that
it does not wish todo so. We have merely stated a problem.

Over The Top?

—— ee

Unfortunately it is impossible to determine, even approximately,
the success of the Work Campaign. Its benefits, its accomplishments, if any, cannot be measured in dollars. However our editorial
ears, ever on the alert for private opinions of different students and
for choice morsels of gossip, culled from here and there, tell us that
it was very generously received and supported by the student body
as a whole.

To those who have endorsed. our’ campaign we wish to express
our gratitude and the assurance that they will not be the losers,

a eo
os ao8 :

A Parable.

He was rather frail and bent and wrinkled with age yet from

under his grey shaggy eyebrows there looked out the eyes of one who

saw visions and dreamed dreams, eyes that still had something of the
adventure of youth in them.

We were fellow-travellers two summers ago between Mon.eal

and North Bay. I had thrown down the magazine I had been read
ing and was gazing out upon the passing tangle of bushes and _fire
My Lady Disdainful

+

 

, burnt timber, and dreaming of the past session and wondering what When you were born I think the fairies flew
the future might hold for me. I know not how long he had been ; > aes wise and ja og oe yous head
a in, ; ; ; r : ‘nd many a lovely gift bestowed on you,
ot watching me; a low musical chuckle made me turn from the window “aiding Lot sg Glee mye edie Slice 3.5

to look at him. co
“You wear the Gold and Black,” he'began quizzically. ‘Yes,
sir,” I said, with no litle pride in my voice. ‘‘Ah,”’ came the low

You came in Autumn, so with fingers fleet
They stripped the berries from the rowan tree,
Trod them in faery press with dainty feet

Le as , . oe 5

aa chuckle again, “once | wore the Gold and Black too. Once like you ee

i, I thought that truth was to be found easily, like you I believed it fotint your cheeks and mouttvall rosily:

eee would be a light task to conquer the world, like you when a few magic Thev gathered up the spikes of golden rod

; ’ words, the lilt of a verse would send a pulse of fire through me, [ pire Overy wanes — peeves rill Re

4 ; : 1 sf s , ; ili they had garnered ail these Nowers o od,
i _ thought that I too could easily win the gift of speech and sway other Pisaty woversteaa Ge your fale with basen’ okt

men with my verses. And then something happened, something

Safe hidden in a wood they found a pool

  

—-———- you will no believe.’ | |
“Go on, go on,” | urged, for it seemed he had read my thoughts Reflecting deep the purple of the skies
like a book. “Sometimes I can hardly believe that it was not a ae runs ite waters shadowy eh cool
dream, yet it has made me what Iam. The queer thing is that I y stole the subtle colour of your eyes.
fee well remember what came before but. ane night I found ‘ They saw a leaf advancing down the street
____ myself in a lonely place among the hills. Behind me was a black o light so swift they scarce could win the race
_ fir wood, before me at my feet a great valley, through which a river Bs capannecdat . Se see so your feet
___ shimmered to the moon, a river which had sprung from the splintered ould tread the worid with airy, comely grace.
eo. oe § that towered in the east. A streak of purple and gold Put ab! the fairies give not of their wealth

To men for nought, (I heard a wise man say),
0 when they spied you fast asleep, by stealth
+ney must, I think, have stolen your heart away.

ee still lingered in the western sky, and here and there in the black solia, — tud of the hills I could see the light from a shepherd's hut. Slowly

the path, stopping now and then to gaze at the shining
the ghost-like wreaths of mist that rose from the valley.

M. A. B.

 

 

Agta =

March 18th, 1926

From the Mail Bag

—_——
OBSERVATION OR IMAGINATION.

Halifax, N.S.,
March 8th, 1926.

To the Editor:

Dear Sir:—My interest has been
aroused by an article published in a late
issue of the Gaszefte entitled, ‘‘Morons
and Muckers”’, and | would be glad if you
would find space ia your paper for these
few remarks conceraing same.

| must first commend the writer on
his or her achievements, for the letter,
if written from first-hand knowledge, is
certainly by a person above the average.
For who but a super-being could see
something that did not happen at a
distance of not less than tweive feet in a
light by which it was hardly possible
to discern an object five feet away?
It is undoubtedly, a feat that would
excite the eavy of any cat.

On second glance, I see that the writer
does not claim to have seen the things
described ia his or her letter, how then
was he or she aware ef them?

Since the indulgence in the ‘‘divine of
divine pleasures’’ does not, to my knowledge, make any characteristic sounds,
I do not believe that the writer would
claim to have heard them. How else
could he possibly kaow? I claim, no
other way. The letter, therefore, is
purely a product of the IMAGINATION,
and such an imagination is truly the
mark of a genius; again I repeat, the
author of that letter is no ordinary person. It is too bad, that ‘‘A. B. C’s”
identity is concealed, however, I feel
confident that such talent cannot long
remain hidden.

To me, ‘‘A. B. C.’s” motive in writing
the letter is not clear. It may be to
advertize his or her accomplishments,
or possibly an effort to degrade the columns of the Gasette, and lower it in the
estimation of its readers, many of whom
are not students. I will say, however,
that the first part is not based or FACTS.
Contrary to ‘‘A. B. C’s"’ remarks, the
wrestling mats were not in ‘‘an almost
totally dark nook,’’ but were about ten
feet from the door, and approximately
twice that distance from the north wall.
They also had a white background
made by the housing which was used for
the orchestra at the Junior-Senior Dance.
Myself together with a friend and some
boys about nine years of age were sitting
on these mats. Over in the north-east
corner a few more boys were climbing
about the punching bag platform;
besides these there was no one north of
the door, within fifteen feet of the back
of the Gym.

I hope that this will correct any false
impressions that may have been created
by “‘A. B. C.’s’” letter. The darkest
corner, instead of containing ‘“‘loving,
petting, crooning couples’ was being
used by some boys to practice daredevil stunts, and the wrestling mats,
rather than holding in some obscure spot,
those who express ‘‘other than in words,
the tender passions they feel’ were out
in the open, and occupied by two drama
fans, and several small boys who were,
evidently, trying to find out which knew
the greatest number of words of a type
not to be found in a dictionary.

Signed: ‘'M, E,”

Halifax, N.S.,
March 5th, 1926.
To the Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,
Hatitax, N: S,
Dear Sir:—

Would you be good enough to publish
in your valuable paper the following few
remarks re the article entitled ‘‘Morons
and Muckers” written by one who signs
himself ‘‘A. B. C.’'? c

[ refer chiefly to that part of the letter
having to do with ‘‘Morons.’”’ ‘‘A. B.
C.” would do well to invest in a new pair
of glasses, although undoubted!y he
seems to have seen remarkably well—
things that were supposed to be happening in “‘almost totally dark nooks and
corners’. Well, Mr. Editor, you. know
how much you can see in ‘‘lamost total
darkness."

From all appearances the person who
wrote the letter seems to know considerably more than most of us about this so
called ‘‘necking and petting,” and perhaps his vivid imagination worked overtime on the night he refers to. He would
do well to bear in mind that ‘‘people in
glass houses should not throw stones.”
When one is thoughtful enought to stay
in the back of the Gymnasium when
people are on the stage, I do not think
that there should be any remarks reflecting on their behaviour in ‘‘almost total
darkness” such as those mace in his
letter, However, I suppose there is at
least one in every college, and this time,
evidently he had to be it. However,
I did find his letter rather humorous, if
in nothing else than its inconsistency.

Signed: ‘‘KEN,"

 

Halifax, N. S.,

March 5th,
Mr. Arthur L. Murphy,

Editor of the Dalhousie Gazette.
_. Halifax, N. S,

Dear Sir:—
_ I was somewhat surprised when reading your valuable paper, to see a letter

(Continued on page 3, col. 1.

1926.

 
    

  

7 +

we <a »
i; +e 5 - ‘

“aA a"

Q

(Latin I)
Ue apelogies io Macoula ty).

To

fore the class:):

 
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
     
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
  
 
    
    
 
  
   
    
    
 
  

sor’s brow was sad,
sor’s speech was low,
looked he in the hall
truttin. pe fro.

gang v 2 upon me;
will that bell abate?

hey once may win the door

hope to mark them late?”’.

ark! the cry is ‘Howard!’

te ran —

nd the great man ol classics

ein with stately pride.

n he: “You bunch of dumbells
hy cans't ye chant the lay,

t will ye dare to translate

‘T shall clear the way?”

. ‘OD E Il (in class; a question has been
asked):

a
_ The three stood calm and silent

And lcoked Ate the prose,

Anda t shout of laughter

From all the students rose. _

_ Far from the bell’s sweet ringing

_ Ramped round the would-be sage,

- And for a time no man stood forth,

Or offered te assuage such wrath

_ And ‘key’ that gruesome page.

ODE III:

_ Alone stcod brave diimb Dora
__ Trusting alone to grace,

~ Thrice thirty thousand lines before
And a blank look on her face.

_ But she saw in Ecum Secum

The white porch of her home,

__ And she thought of the noble cow-path
_ Where she was wont to roam,

i vv
ry

ODE IV:

Never, I ween, did student
—_ In such an evil case, ;
Struggle through such a terrible ode
With a smile upon her face.
But her Wrigley tongue wagged brave
- By the brave heart within,
She had made no preparation
But plowed through, thick and thin.

a 4

ODE V Gecond bell has rung long since):

And now the final bell has rung,
itt i ow in the lal she stands,
he 4 Now round her press
Ba oe Se

_. To shake her trembling hands. |
__. And now with shouts and clapping,
And scuttling hard and fast,

She dashes from the Latin room

Foo late for her next class.
___ Too late for her ne QUIS?
FROM THE MAIL BAG

Fee

(Continued from page 2, col. 5.)
under the heading of ‘‘Morons and Muckers.” Do you not think that ‘‘A, B.
C.” carried the matter a little too far in
his remarks about the so-called ‘‘Morens’? Why, Mr. Editor, it was nothing,
absolutely nothing, short of libelous,
and as I happen to be at the back of the
Gym several times during Glee Club
entertainments, it was not altogether
what [ would call pleasant to me. To
my mind, and to many others, it was an
absolutely crude article, and we were
# surprised, as I said above, to think
that the Dalhousie Gazette would publish
an article of its kind, which to any intellioa person, was the quintessence of
.OT

Signed: ‘‘HONI SOIT.”

Ed. Note—The Gazetfe is not responsible for letters published in its
correspondence column. Regarding the
classifieation of ‘tA. B. C.’s’” article as
“‘crude’”’ we would refer t e last writer to
his pseudonym, ‘SHONI SOIT’ While ‘A.
B. (.”" may have exaggerated conditions
somewhat his statements were at least
founded on the truth.

ng ti

a

:
mea
i

i

=
of
aa

[uncarss
~VALETERIA

|} A NEW PRESSING SERVICE
| 4 tickets good any time

| for Four Pressincs
oo) $2.00
| it Ingar’s Cleaning & Dyeing
$428 BARRINGTON ST.

 

i

Li

ET ae ee eS ee

a i *
ate

   
     
  
 

 

- e eee

.
¢.
.

7° ee
= Ee

 

HEY ALSO SERVE.

(Continued from page 1, col. 2.)

"“T may have some difficulties,” she
told another student who smiled appreciatively. ‘‘But,"”’ she added, ‘‘difficulties
determine me.”

_ The girl to whom she talked was looking at that object so familiar to the study
of a college girl—the photograph of a
handsome man. It stood on Mary's
table. “If I were you,” she pointed to
the photograph, “I'd marry him.”

Mary looked at her friend anc laughed;

she looked at the photograph and sighed, |:

she might have married him. She forgot
her friend,—the garden at home, a September afternoon, Bob's proposal, came
back to her; that might have been a more
memorable day. Bob was a wonderful

man; what a happy woman his wile
would be! how happy she might have
been! From the photograph her eyes

wandered to the wall above the table,
where hung a bluenose banner; contentment returned as she reflected how worthy cf sacrifice was Nova Scotia. She
loved the old province. “If I am unhappy,’ she thought, “I'll keep it to
myself, I did what was right and I
don’t regret it. I don’t care how difficult
serving Nova Scotia is, nor how few the
opportunities—I'll serve her in some
way.’ Mary turned again to the photograph: she could look at it now without
a sigh. “I am glad,” she thought,
“that he is going to live in Nova Scotia:
my province will be the better because
of him. I may ses him sc metimes toc.”’

Bob had a. law office. Some day he
hoped to have a _ practice. Hudaled
together in a corner of the otherwise
empty shelves was his legal library— the
texts he had used in college and the
“presentation’’ volumes which every law
graduate attaches from the library of
his alma mater. The motto of his college, not inappropriate to a Halifax law
office, decorated the judicial and juridical dust on the wall above his desk.
A stenographer, if Bob could have afforded one, would have said that it was Latin,
“Ora et Labora.’’ Though Bob had adopted the motto, it brought him a scant
living; he looked at it sometimes and
laughed. Until he aspired to Mary
Scot, he had planned to squeeze the
motto—to the last dead accent—for
all it was worth in British Columbia.
Nova Scotia, in the person of Mary,
rewarded him ill for deserting the province he had chosen.

Bob was heartbroken. Law didn’t
interest him, and no longer did he pretend busyness. He would sit in his
office and think—but I’m not going to
get sentimental just because he did. He
wrote once in a while to Mary—not often
because he couldn't trust himself to omit
all mention of marriage, which, he knew,
would make her unhappy. He was de
termined that he would suffer by himself,

that she whom he loved should not be
sad on his account; though he regretted
her decision to remain unmarried, he
admired her determination to serve Nova
Scotia and was resolved to make it as
easy for her as lay in his power. He was
broken hearted, but suicide never occurred to him.

It was nearly spring when Bob realized
that there was nothing to keep him in
Nova Scctia—he might as well carry out
his original purpose of going to British
Columbia. “If [cannot choose my wife’’
he said, concealing his unhappiness in a
manner which showed him net unfitted
for the role of hero, ‘ I will choose my
home.” With all his eagerness however
he postponed his going away so that
Graduation time would find him in
Montreal.

Halifax, which had starved him, regretted his intention to leave. Who goes
away carries with him good wishes; but
who goes away a hero earries with him
good wishes plus, At a banquet in
Bob's honour, which in the words of one
speaker they all wished were his wedding
breakfast, his friends gave him many
magnificent presents. If Bob was at
all reluctant to accept them, it was not
because ke even dreamed of detriment.
Going away was somehow a sadder business than he had thought. A farewell
however, lf it-is not a funeral, shows a
man how numerous are his friends; Bob
was surpris: d.

Many cf these friends went to the
station to se him cff—to send him from
ocean to ocean, On the train he fell in
with a former Nova Scotian who was
returning to British Columbia after a
visit to the scenes of his wisdom. Only
the young are wise,

“Tt is the best place in the world,”
the British Columbian said. ‘‘Theré are
no people like the Neva Scotians.”

Bob began to think. Perhaps he was
making a mistake—he murmured some
maxim about success and happiness.
From hig pocket he took a letter which
bore the McGill coat of arms; thought
it came from Montreal it bubbled over
with Nova Scotia. ‘It seems impossible
to find something really big to do,”
Mary wrete. And, “ I shall be awfully
glad to see you, but I wish—oh, so much,
that you had stayed. I never dreamed
you would leave Nova Scctia.” British
Columbia,
such a remarkable place.

It was impossible however for him to
go back now—it was too late, he meditated, to change his mind.* The farewell
gifts prevented him from_ returning.
ven if he had attempted it, I should
have thwarted him. No hero of mine
will go bumming back to the scene of a
send-off, and so by making himself liable

ae sepa gtl ie

Bob reflected, couldn’t be|

fe ees 3 A ae Vr sist

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

to an action for obtaining goods by fraudulent misrepresentation jeopardize the
success of my story. I would not allow
it. Dll admit however that giving him
the presents without warning him that
they might be used against him was somewhat unfair. Experience, howeve,
teaches heroes as well as fools
“Strange,”” Bob thought, “it never
occurred to me that way before. They
meant to do a kindness, while really
they have made the world smaller by
Nova Scotia to me. I can only visit.”

He became aware of his thoughts,
“What Asif I wanted to go back.” He
settled down in his seat, ‘‘Well, whether
I do or I don’t, its out of the question.”

His thoughts turned te more pleasant
pastures. Tcmorrow would be Montreal, Ccnvocation, Mary.

In hood and gown, carrying the roses
he had sent her, she was more than heroine. *Bob cursed his geographical ambitions; and regretted the generosity of his
friends which had exiled him from Mary's
province. He couldn’t go back. An
idea occurred to him; perhaps—but no,
he wouldn’t ask it of her; she had her
work to do. If he could, he would restrain his love; h2 would meke it as easy
as possible for May. These few days in
Montreal must be happy ones for her,

The time flew. There was so much to
say—about everything. It was not unlikely that they would never meet again.
Had she ever talked so delightfully? Had
he ever been so interesting? They postponed the day when they were to leave
Montreal—she for the East, he for the
West,

Nevertheless the sob-and-sentiment
day arrived, They discussed their friendship, their prespects. He had failed to
regain the enthusiasm of his college days
for British Columbia; she was beginning
to realize that her father was right—that
serving Nova Scotia in any of the ways
she had thought of was impracticable.
She saw a possible way nevertheless,
though she wished the occasion had never
arisen, a way unlike anything she had
previously planned, in which she might
serve Nova Scotia as largely as she had
ever dreamed. Of her hope, however, she
said nothing to Bob. Finally, for the
first time since he had arrived in Montreal, they discussed their love. It was
with great difficulty that they were able
. = at all calmly—Cupid ran wild in

th. ;

“If only things were different!” Bob
burst out. ‘If only we could marry and
live our lives together!” He paused to
gain control of himself. ‘‘But what is
the use of talking,” he went on dejectedly.
"You have to return to Nova Scotia, while
I can’t. You couldn’t marry me if I

did.”
“Why can’t you return?” she asked.

He told her. ‘Oh!’ she exclaimed
faintly; the hope she had begun to entertain left her. It had occurred to her,
that if she could, by marrying him, keep
in Nova Scotia the perfect man, she
would be performing a great service—she
would fulfil her dream. Her hope however was now gone. (In the hope of
pleasing you I refrain from including at
this point, though not without regret, a
dissertation on the inevitability of destiny).

Mary made a brave effort to give matrimony the six months’ hoist. ‘I don’t
know what I am going to do Bob,” she
said, “when I go home. But I'll co
something, no matter how small, for
Nova Sectia. I don’t see how you can
goaway. If it weren't for those farewell
gifts—if there were less of them, if they
weren't so splendid. I'd do anything to
keep you in the old province.””. She winced as seemingly without reason Bob's
grip tightened on her arm. “If I could
be the means of ycur return,’’ she continued, “I weuld feel that I had indeed
served Nova Scotia.”

“Would you? Would you?" the
words fairly, rushe¢ from his mouth
“T’'ve been thinking—There may be a
way.”

Mary started. .“‘A way!"’ she exclaimed. ‘What is it?”

‘Those farewell gifts,” he stutterec,!
‘“—-make them our wedding presents ”’

In her face joy followed surprise. ‘“‘I
will serve Nova Scotia,” she said.

Alpha O.

“OXFORD”
SHOES

BLACK AND BROWN
MEN’S $8 to $8.50
WOMEN’S $7.50 to $8.00

"TUTTLES”

eT ON STREET
an
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

|
|
Made in England

Engineering Notes

The fourth and last of the Enginecirng
Society’s series of winter inspection trips
was made on March 13th when a partv
of fifteen travelled down to Imperoyal
and were conducted over the huge plant
under the able leadership of Mr. Dimock.

 

Annual Meeting.

The Annual! Meeting cf the Engineering Society was held on March 12th
when much important business was transacted,

The most important thing before the
meeting was the election of officers for
1926-1927—-and the following are those
who were choosen:—

Honourary President—Professor Copp.

President —Bob Doull.

Vice-President—G, J. (Skip) Currie.

Secretary-Treasurer—Harry Bell.

Additional Executive—J. M. Morton

and H. M. Beaton.

For the first time ia the history of the
department, on March 11th the drafting
room was officially open to the students
in the evening. About 25 engineers took
advantage of this to get up back work
and there is no dounpt that it will be well
patronized on al! such future occasions.

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR

STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

 

 

NEXT WEEK
MON., TUES., WED

“DANCE MADNESS”

with
CLAIRE WINDSOR

CASINO

CONRAD NAGEL
IN HIS BIGGEST COMEDY

“RAINBOW RILEY”

THUR., FRI., SAT.

JOHNNY HINES

MORE LAUGHS THAN THE
RAINBOW HAS COLORS

Serial - - Comedy

 

 

db Ge

Page Three

Small
But Important

OUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat
may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the CoLtar
you wear—it is the one article of
dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
that confidence which comes from
good grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are
shaped right, and because no welldressed man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,
which is so acceptable.

L 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry
85 West St.

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

 

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

 

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS }

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

  
  

Chairman at the meeting of Arts and
Science: ‘‘Order! Order!’’

Voice: “All right. I’ve just ordered
a bottle of beer.”

CIGARET TES

 
     

15‘ per pki.
a 5 for 30°

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

Manufactured & iy
Amperial lebacce Co, af Canada, Limited.

  
     

 

 

 

 
  
      
    
 

  
  
  
 
 

| tor them all and even if these factors did
not oppose this project, the temper,

;
jipresence of the council
would have been kept
dignity of our Empire
1} win

-ond speaker, asserted that such an

Im
i biede of unity now present under the

. are formed by_
;

‘tite Be these bonds. H
from references stressin
unity of the Empire under
course of Im
pendence of
-by Great Britain has been the means of

 

Car. George and Barrington St.
HALIFAX

aes

  

    

LHOUSIE POSES UNANIMOUS
‘DECISION TO MT. A.

(Continued from page 1, col. 5).

as

expressed by their representations, of the
| lominions Se Goaition to the establishment of such a council. 1
"Mr. W. B. Ross, te second speaker
for the affirmative, dealt with t! e history
of our Empire affairs under three heads:
(1) the present situation of the British
Empire, (2) Sidelights on our foreign
policy since 1914, (3) Political history
‘demands the establishment of this
Imperial council.

stressed the important part the
Dominions had played in the late war,
especially noteworthy because popuJar opinion had not expected such a
display of loyalty. Germany, perhaps

if she had foreseen such a development

might never have brought about hostili‘ties, and under this Imperial council
Germany would have foreseen It.
The voice of the Imperial conferences
since the war, has been raised in support
of this Imperial council, which would
operate equally well in war or peace. It
would, for instance, have prevented the
fiasco of 1922, when Britain was conoe was
dominions. With the
caer ot tee such a refusal
secret and the
preserved.
Mount A,'s sec
templating war with Turkey

‘C. T. Bruce as

rial council would destroy the

existing system of development. He

explaining the ties which operate in our
ee ea “Bonds of sympathy
blood relationship, and
immigration. Such an autocratic imper~
ial | would be detrimental to the
Is. He quoted freely
the present
the present
rial development. Indee dominions as recognized

‘Sl in this run of thought by}

mpire system.

council

developing a confidence among the
‘different portions of the empire and this
confidence could not last under the proposed change. Lastly the tendency
away from the old colonial system has
brought to the dominions the obligation of sharing the burdens of the Empire.
Mr. R. H. McLeod closed the argument for the affirmative by_ clearing
away a number of misconceptions that
might hamper our idea of the proposed
council, =»)
That the Imperial Council. is a legislative instrument of coercion 1s a MIS
taken concept for a unanimous and not a
majority vote will predominate in the
course of deliberations. He went on to
contrast tie benefits of experience under
this council with deficiencies felt without
such a body, Another wrong idea prevalent is that this council is a retrograde
movement rather than an advancement.
An equality in the commonwealth of nations is not possible for Canada in her
resent position. She is bound by Great
Britain's policy and in international
law is not recognized apart from the
British Empire. In this Imperial Coun
‘cil her influence would be felt and her

opinion respected. y
Mr. K. A. Parker very brilliantly
concluded the case for Mount Allison.
He showed in his opening remarks the
impracticability of such a council. Its
radical nature and its interference with
man’s essential factors of the present
system. Even our relations with the
League of Nations would be greatly
disrupted. “it

a as the word dominion could
not applied to India, this large and

werful colony would not be included
in the representation of the council.
Great Britain herself would not submit
to any interference of the dominions in
her foreign affairs any more readily
than the dominions would welcome advice as to her foreign decisions.

The decisions of this body could only
be reached by a unanimous or a majority
vote, both methods entailing dissatisfaction asaresult. The decision then could |
not be arrived - by force, a.most foolish
supposition at the best.

Tir, Trueman spoke very effectively
in rebuttal and in his easy conversational

scored heavily on his opponent's
uments.

r. Brown was no quite as clear in his
final speech. However his convincing
voice saved his speech from mediocrity
and gave him a favorable position in
the opinion of the audience. —

The decesion was reached after a short
deliberation on the part of the judges.

 

Dalhousies’ Co-eds won their return
ame with the Normal College last week
y defeating t' em 25-14. The game was

fairly even with Cal having the play
their way by a considerable margin.
Marion Campbell was not on the floor
which accounted for the smallness of
the score. Had she been in her accus
|tomed place on tte forward line Dal

would have probably had a far larger
score, for the forwards missed many golden opportunities to score by poor shooting. Dalhousie bad waited anxiously
for several days speculating as to what
Lind of superwomen the Sloanites would
turn out to be so when the game started
there was a fairly large audience to witness the victims of a modern inquisition.
The work of the Dal team was very good
in spots and fair for the best part of the
game. The centers turned in a particularly good game. Gertrude Phinney
at side-center handling the ball exceptionally well. Allison McCurdy as Jumping center was also very geod. She
appears slow in her actions but when
watched closely it can be seen that she
is really covering a lot of ground, Alice
Atherton and Marjorie Thompson played well on the forward line, but were not
up to their usual form. The two Dal.
guards were also a little off form neither
of them displaying the air tightness that
they have exhibited in former games.
Now for the Truro team. It is doubtful
whether it is much good saying anything
about them as the Gazefte had decided
not to send their paper to the Normal
School until there is a better moral
atmosphere there, which condition will
be decided shortly by arbitration, Royal
Commission, and a straw vote taken
among the residents of Preston, ‘‘Bud”
Smith having kindly consented to count
the Tickets. However they all played
a fair game and with more experience
and practice they will be a forminable
team. Miss Humble who scored all the
points for her team has an excellent
shot, and handles the ball very well.
Art McPhee handled the whistle in the
first period and ‘‘Turk’’ MacKenzie
relieved him in the second. Truro had
with them a large team and were in
addition accompanied by a dozen or so
rooters.

Dathousie: Alice Atherton 12, Marjorie Thompson 11, Allison McCurdy 2
Gertrude Phinney, Ruth Foote, Madeline
Thompson, Margaret McKay, Betty
Freeman, Blanch McPhail.

Normal—E. Humble 14, M. McPherson, B. Fralick, D. Mossman, M. MeKenzie, M. McLaughlin, A. Westhaver,
I. MacKenzie.

Law 22 St. Mary’s 9.

Law defeated St. Mary's High School
team last Tuesday afternoon in a practise
match. St. Mary's led 5-2 at the end of
the first period but the Lawyers weight
told and they ran in 20 points in tle
second stanza. It was a very clean
game and well played. St. Mary's
showed poor form in their shooting missing the basket on many occasions. Law
on the other hand played an excellent
combination game nearly all their points
resulting from a passing flurry to an
unguarded man who dropped the ball in.

Law—-Richardson 8, Doyle 8, Mitchell
6, Coughlan, McInnes, Outhit.

St. Mary’s—F. Montagte, G. Montague, Dyer 2, Doyle, Fraser 2, Carrol 3,
Pattie, Feffler, Clancy 2.

Mr. Sterling referred.

WINNERS From The

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

 

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX 33

N. S.

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers ox Potted Plants

We make up Funerar Desians.
also Wepvinc Bouquets. We
also do Tasie Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the
T. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to al! parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
| First Class Service © The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
Don't NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

      
       

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| Senior Basketball

a

Dal wins game but loses league by
one point. .

Dal defeated the ‘‘Y”’ 22-20 last Saturday night in a game filled with everything that it is possible to filla game with.
From the moment that “‘Strangler’’ Hermann dropped a pot shot in from center
floor until the referee did a spread eagle
to the final whistle there was everything
to be seen from a 25 yard drop-out to
some fancy work on the parallell bars
with face-offs, cross-checks, half-nelsons,
trips, charges, poke-checks, upper-cuts,
straight-arms, no-trumps, tackles and
interferance thrown in for good measure.
There were toss-ups all the time so that
it positively rained basketballs. The
only pity is that they didn’t use more
balls as it would have given the referee
a better chance to take a more active
part in the game and toss them up
oftener. Hermann gave one of the nicest
exhibitions of ‘‘necking’’ that could
possibly be imagined. If some of the
local shieks could have seen him work on
“Doc” Smith they would have turned
green with envy. Wallace of Dartmouth handled the whistle and after
calling the players together telling them
there was to be no hitting in the clinches,
that the Rabbit Punch was barred and
besides he nearly got a hole in one last
Summer, he quoted to them several
sections from the Criminal Code, Hoyle,
Belcher’s Almanac, and the rule book of
1905, he reserved judgment, pronounced
t em man and wife and then started the
game. The game considering the anxiety
of both teams, the speed of the play and
the manner in which it was handled was
clean. There was no deliberate breach
of the rules but as soon as some of the
players saw that it was possible to get
away with murder they proceeded to do
so in a very efficient manner. Dal are
to be congratulated on their very fine
showing, for they were a very young
team and with two exceptions new
players in senior company. The ‘‘Y’’
are to be congratulated as a team for
winaing the championship. They
always played a good game and are an
experienced team that should be able to
make a good showing against the Trojans if they play them. To which might
be added, not by way of excuse for defeat
or disparaging the ‘Y's’ victory that
had Acadia not forbidden Brown to come
dowa the résult might have been different
for he showed that he had a competent
knowledge of the game. But that would
be another story. Dal started out well
and got the first period 14-9 much to
the great delight of the large gallery of
Dal supporters both students and Profs.
Once again Dal was weak, on penalty
shots, failing to collect a single point out
of about a dozen trys. -Dal has played
eleven games this season, two against
Wanderers, St. George's and Acadia
and five against the ‘‘Y.”’ giving them a
grand total of 346 for to 245 against.
n the five contacts with the ‘‘Y” one
of the games was protested (Dal. 15-14)
of the other four Lal won two and lost
two giving Dal 109 points to 91 for the
“y" McLennan has the most numter
of points 114, followed by McLeod 94,
Langstroth 74, ‘‘Doc’”’ Smith 25 in three
games, Wilson 8 in three games, Capt.
“Ab’’ Smith 8, Mcore 7, Doyle and
Clark 6 each, and Hewat 4.

Line up—‘‘Doe.”’ Smith 6, Maclennan 2,
McLeod 6, Langstroth 6, Doyle 2, Moore,
Jones, Hewat. lerey Wallace of the
D. B, C. A. referee.

924.00

Suit or
Over Coat

to your measure. Best value

in Canada.

See the many advantages
we offer over sending away
thousands of miles for your

clothes,

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

 

Cable Addresa: “ McINNES”

McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald

Barristers, Souicitors &c.
eS ee

HALIFAX, N. S.
Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C. Macdonald, K. C
Stuart Jenks, K. C. F. B. A. Chi
L. A. Lovett, K. C. N. E. y

 

———_—_$_$— = eens

Dal Girls Acadia

Dal’s Intercollegiate team chaperored
by Mrs. Sterling and accompaaied by two
rooters journeyed to Wolfville last
Saturday and played their first game
with Acadia. Dal won and have a ten
point lead on the championship, but
that should be no reason why they should
for one moment consider they are going
to win next Friday the return game with
Acadia. If they deo, it will be only after
a hard struggle. The two Dal guards:
Elinor Barnstead and Harriett Roberts
played a perfect game keeping the
Acadians from getting many chances to
shoot particularly in the second period
when they were the two hardest worked
on the team. Mable Borden as sidecenter played an excellent game being
possibly the best on the floor. Marjorie
thompson started at center and played
for half the period being relieved by
Edwina Archibald for the remainder.
This was repeated in the second period
and was a very good move as it meant
that a fresh center was on through the
whole game. Marion Camp‘ ell as usual
was responsible for the score, getting 19
points. Alice Atherton played her usual
steady game and Edwina Archibald who
played both forward and center was on
her best behavior. Art McPhee of
Truro boosted his stock still higher by
handling the game in an impartial and
excellent manner.

Dal—Campbell 19, Atherton 2, Archibald 4, Thompson, Borden, Barnstead,
Roberts, Freeman.

Interfaculty
Basketball

LAW 12—ENGINEERS 17.

Engineers defeated Law in a closely
contested and exciting match last Saturday. Leading 6-4 at the end of the first
period they stepped away from _ the
Forrest Bld. team in the second and gave
them their second defeat of the season.

Law—Richardson 4, Doyle 2, Mitchell
6, Coughlan, McInnes.

 

Eng.—Doull 5, Brown 4, Currie 2,
Allen 6, Lowe, McKeagan, Beaton,
Roper.

COMMERCE B— —ARTS 29.

 

Arts like the Engineers ran away from
their opponents ia the second period and
woa the game by accurate shooting and
passing. In the first period Jim McDonald twisted: ligament in his ankle
and was forced to retire.
7-6 at the en dof the first and with Keating and Ross right on the basket they
had not much further trouble.

Commerce——Smith 5, McDoaald, Miller, McColl 4, McDuff, Harris 2, Grant 2.

Arts—-Hockin, Hood 1, Keating 15,
Grant, Jardine 2, Ross 11.

 

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last word in modern
science for this purpose,

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it.

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes,

*PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

 

as Oxfords »
FOR MEN
Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to keep up appearances,
very men are the fellows you see

These
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords
and Spats.

OXFORDS, $6, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Wallace Bros.

Nees BARRINGTON ST. pp
FAIRLY

crass JEWELRY pricep
H. C. HENDERSON

 

  

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville

Arts had itj

   
  
    

March isth, 1926

Law Captures Meet

nee

For the first time in Dalhousie an
Interfaculty Badmington meet was held
last Friday night. In the doubles Langstroth and Musgrave (Arts) defeated
Dobson (Lent.) and Coyle (Com.), 15-6,
15-11. Law won the doubles championship when Sperry and Mitchell (Law)
defeated Langstroth and Musgrave (Arts)
9-15, 15-12, 15-10. In the singles
Langstroth (Arts) defeated Doyle (Com. )
15-11, 15-7. Sperry (Law) defeated
Musgrave (Arts) 15-10, 15-9. Dobson
(Dent,) defeated Ceath (Arts) 20-5, 15-11,
Dobson (Dent.) defeated Mitchell (Law)
13-15, 1&-10, 15-12. Sperry (Law) defeated Langstroth (Arts) 4-15, 15-10,
15-12. Sperry (Law) won the singles
by defeating Dobson (Dent) 15-7, 15-6.
Law captured the meet with 6 points
and Dentistry and Arts got one apiece as
runners up. Altogether it was very
successful and will be an added attraction
to athletics in Dalhousie if it is continued

‘next year with a regular leagie formed,

Majestic Notes

Colleen Moore will be at the Majestic

for the remainder of this week. After
the dramatic and grim ‘“‘Sea Beast’’
Majestic patrons are greeting the light
breezy comedy ‘“‘Irene’’ with open arms.
Mr. Hugh Mills, of Jensen and Mills,
is presenting a fashioa show with living
models as a prelude to the picture. This
is a distinct innovation, being the first
of its kind to be presented in Halifax.
Don’t miss it.
_ Next Monday night the Masonic
Choir are presenting a musical eatertainment. There will be a Choir of fifty
voices and the Masonic Orchestra of
twenty-five pieces.

For the remainder of the week the
“Quaker Girl” will be staged by the
Halifax Music and Dramatic Club.
This musical comedy has never before
been produced in Halifax and is the
biggest show ever undertaken by the
Dramatic Club which has given Halifax
so many good performances. The musical numbers are delightful from beginning
toend, There is no jazz, the music was
written before its time, but even the
foremost exponents of jazz will find it
equally ‘“‘catchy”’ and far prettier.

Don’t Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’'S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harr Curiine is sure

satisfy. Lapizs’ Hain Cutrina in all
styles; also Cunmtinc, SHamPpooinc and
Massacinc. One trial will convince.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Pror.

Phone S 4780 41 Sackville St.

 

MAJESTIC

NEXT WEEK
MASONIC CHOIR
50.- VOICES - 50

ORCHESTRA of 25 PIECES

TUES and BALANCE of WEEK
THE DRAMATIC AND
MUSICAL CLUB

“THE QUAKER GIRL”

FIRST iN HALIFAX

 §TRAND |

THE HOME OF HIGH CLASS
MUSICAL
COMEDY AND VAUDVILLE

 

You know the rest of thie

ALP HA BETA alphabet, but won't you
i k.

een the ae Cee a Music Dealer's Text Boo
Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles

Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos

Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher's, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY
2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St.

 

HALIFAX

 

 
