 

ee

  

 
 
 
 
        

a, up of

1 McInn 3, Phil

r set, Jack Atwood,
ey Waes at
; mm the Law Library. When a
t 10 o'clock eee studies were

  

rt Py a roaring sound in the air
t outside the Library. It sounded
aper set afire in a chimney and imediately the students started on a tour

ning from room to room, they

a em oe en

  
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
 

  

ne upon one where the crackling of
and tiny tongues of flame reaching

  
 

through the floor told the story of a
» between the ceiling of the basement
d the floor of the class room. Some

ran oe aoe m of fie and orier
. e fire extinguishers of the
pena them to the room,
; wer’ brought into play.
ile Jack Atwood seeing the
- of getting at the source of the
began tearing up a portion of the
wring and leaning into the aperture
created, brought the extinguishers
oe ed him to bear on the flames and so
Id the fire in temporary abeyance.
“he fire department responded promptly.
‘ing floor

  

  

  

  

    

u oor and ceiling they reached the
‘ce of the trouble and in a short time
ze was completely extinguished.
no one been present at the time
7 in all probability have
way that it would have
ty tosave the building;
bt that on accourt of

   
  

“pitted ne one,
‘the fire would.

  
 

  

  
  
 
   
   
    
  
  

=.

Sirs,
I am enclosing a statement of rugby
and track which I would like you to
publish for the general benefit of the
» student body. It is rather difficult to
gather much informatiog from the annua!
1ancial statement of the Students’
- Council—as the subject matter cannot
_. but be treated in a more or less general
manner. I am, therefore, submitting,
or as part ofa series of accounts itemized insofar as they can be, with which
pee to furnish the student body to
enlighten them on the financial adminis‘ation of the various organizations and
odies controlled by the Council.

    
  

  

Fae

+ - el

:

4 :
if Z
a 5 J > ; i

  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
       
  
 
 
 
   
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

   

_ _ Yours very truly,
Fy J. GERALD GODSOE,

! Sec’y-Treas. of the Council.
ss Rugby 1925-26.

Expenditures.

Equipment (Ist and 2nd teams).$ 368 .33
_ Meals—Murray Homestead.... 157.14
_ Trip—U. N. B-and St. John.... 600.00
tip—Acadia....... Oe 25 .00

Acadia—Dalhousie game—
a. Studie fe eae
AL iation Fee. to ew eee

egrams, Long-distance Phone

@ & 4 6) 6 o ee 68 Ove

F at
ee. !
Dee eeSEASMAULQE PICO by wince th te ek

MEG Fae ed COME ios sk as 0.95
ranges, Pop, Gum—CityLeaguz 28 .30
andages, Medical Supplies.... 31.55
Maeidentals. ©... 5c. cs ees 23.53
Burlesque Show—Freshmen . . 9.00
| etal... 0 viv bvee $1814.05
oe Receipts.
ms
U.N. B.—St. John trip..... .., 260.00
Pla Gade Wanderers ee
PTE Metre es sss oe lb i 15.
res (C ol Uh pao 133.19

 

iexpense..... k
y one-half the total receipts
being paid to the Univernding debt contracted in

™

“
5. 5G

Pol a 3 Tt 20.75
, "2.85

Moulic gan

Pa aes Y 3's

 

  
 
 
  
      

      
    
    
     
      
      
      
   
    
 
     
     
     
   
  
  

_ YY | sident remarked in his touching prologue)

a

  
  

oj ~

=. 2 : ; a R cane P
eas ee ri ah: pe
eel as |, a J « . .
eae .

 

Dalhousie Glee and
Dramatic Society

  

audience.

entertainment,

novel features. The cpenin

fslksong ‘‘All through the

the boys did remarkably well—the part‘singing in “All through the Night”
being excellent. Let's hope to sez twice
fMledricatany's number there next time.
Roy Wiles accompanied effectively as
usual. The second number was probably the “drawing card" of the evening—
an exhibition of that fascinating new
development of
“The Charleston.’’ It was executed
with great skill and “pep” by Mr.
Dechman and Miss Margolian—whilst
the audience watched with bated breath
and devouring eyes the complicated
gyrations and manoeuvers which feature
the dance. Roy Woodill at the piano
and D, Jakeman with his “‘Sax”’ provided
jazz of irresistible liveliness. - The last
alf of the dance was repeated after
vociferous applause. A one-act play
‘by A. A; Milne called ‘‘Fair Mistress
Dorothy”—a satire on the days ‘when
nighthood was in flower” (as the pre
   

 
  

as the next number. pA
_The members of the cast all did their
parts well, though Margaret Robertson
as ‘‘Dorothy’' was possibly not so lively
in her part as the villian taken by John
Morton; and the hero well portrayed
by Ken Smith. K. Wainwright made a
flawless decrepid old father and the
manner in which the two farm-hands
(Harry Bell and Evan Clarke) assisted
the hero off to prison with the aid of a
pitch-fork and a shovel was truly masterly. The finat number was a novelty
ballet dance by Albert Mahon which
certainly ‘“‘went over big’’ in every sense
of the expression. The make-up and
costume left nothing (almost!) to be
desired and the dance itself would have
done credit to glen Allen of ‘‘Dumbells’’
fame cr even to Paulowa herself. Roy
Woodill again distinguished himself as
an accompanist and the dance was encored amid great applause. Much to
the regret of all, the violin solo which
was to have been the final number, had
to be called off owing to the violinist
being ill with german measles. The
rest of the evening was spent delightfully
in dancing to the strains of D. Berry's
jazz orchestra,

The evening as a whole was most
enjoyable from every Standpoint and
has set a good standard for coming shows.
Perhaps some of us might summon up
enough courage to ask Miss Margolian
and her partner to show us ‘‘the Charleston’ with the view of making use of
said dance to enable us to get to 9
o'clock lectures on time. e
oye £3

 

Council Meeting

The Students’ Council held a meeting
in the Munro Room on Thursday, Jan.
14th, 1926. This being the first meeting
of the new year, much important
business was transacted.

Additional grants were made to the
D. A. A. G., D. G. A. C., Gazette, Delta
Lamma, Debating, Society and the rink
to Gever expefises for the second term.
A committee was chosen of two members
from each: faculty to endeavor to raise
funds for buying gymnasium supplies
and equipment.

A letter from the Senate was read
which is hoped will clear up for good
a long standing dispute with the D. A, A.
€. as to the elegibility of King’s and Pine
Hill players on teams representing
Dalbousie. It has been agreed that cna
liberal interpretation of the constitution
of the Council that the latter should be
able to play on Dalhousie Teams.

It was announced that the Glee and

/Dramatic Club would put on a play

during Convocation week and the Councilwas urged to support the matter. It is
understoed that the Council will guaranto indemnify the Majestic Theatre

Cn Wednesday of last week the Glee
| Club presented its first program of the
| New Year to a large and enthusiastic
“Short and snappy” is about
the best phrase to describe the evening's
which had two very
number
consisted of three songs—‘'Three Fishers,"’ by Kingsley; ‘Here's to the Maiden” by Sheridan; ‘‘and the old Welsh
Night"’—
sung by Lee Chisholm’s male choir. |
The singing was net quite so good perhaps as on Nov. 25th; but considering
that a number were absent (the distinguished conductor himself being forced
to join in) and that but little ensemble
practice was possible since the holidays,

Terpsichorean art—

A New Year Prayer.

 

    
    
  
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

sweet.

eyes, ,
Guide me to find the licht that never dies.

O Young New Year, fraught with new
hope, new love, —

Renew my faltering faith in God above.

O Young New Year, I know not what you
bring—

O Keep me loyal to the Christ my King.

O Young New Year that cometh not

again,

Help me to love and serve my fellow-men.
1926

New Leaves and Old

To the philosophic mind there
something mildly amusing in the peculiar
attraction that human nature seems to
find in what is cOmmonly known as
“turning over a new leaf."’ The practice
is almost universal, and most of all at the
beginning of a new year the fever runs
exceptionally high and few escape its
contagion.

For example, have not you, gentle
reader, come back from the Christmas
vacation full of good resolutions and
glowing with the laudable intention of
beginning the new term with a new code
of conduct, all the faults and follies of
former aiays being discarded, and a
reign ofconscientious adherence to duty
theoretically, if not as yet practically,
indtgurated?) 4 ‘soem

We have all turned over a good many
leaves in our day and I suppose we shall
go on doing so until the last leaf of all in
our book is turned over! But alas! it
is a sad fact that when the test comes
poor frail humanity falters and often
miserably fails. Our lofty resolutions
crumple into nothingness and custom’s
iron grip holds us fast. Our fair new
leaves are all too soon smirched and
bletted,

Personally, at such times, I find both
charm and encouragement in turning
over the leaves backwards. The Past,
as well as the Future, holds entrancing
visions. Chronicles of bygone days,
they bring many half-forgotten things
to our remembrance, the memory of
which thrills our whole being so that for
one glorious hour the heavy mantle of
the Present slips from our wearied
shoulders. Haunting thoughts of what
might have been may, indeed, throrg
in upon us as we turn back the leaves
of golden chances thrust aside and irrevocably lost. But it is not of these
that we think now. Time, that bends
the back and furrows the brow of all
men, can dissipate the keenest sorrow
and regret, and Time leaves us memories
from which all the bitterness has passed
away so that there remains only a serene
tenderness. So there is an_ elusive
grace, a nameless fascination, in these
old pages in which the Past is glorified
by memory's magic glass.

And we need not be discouraged if the
clean new page of 1926 seems to become
crumpled and blotted all too soon. Let
us take heart of grace in the fact that in
the right perspective it will lose its soiled
look and bear only the record of golden
deeds and of high endeavors.

It is worth while then, you ask, to turn
over new leaves at all, to make new resolutions? Yes, verily. But let us not
fuss too much as to what is being written
on the pages. Leave that to the Great
Overseer who alone has the correct
perspective. Let us keep only this little
thought in semind—that God does not
look us over for great achievements, or
for class distinctions, but only to see if
we did our best. I{ we take for our
motto the old one ‘Ever do and be the
best”, we may go forward strong and
of good courage, knowing that when the
Dark Angel writes Finis on the last
page of life, he also blots out all our
ailures,

B.

WITH APOLOGIES TO I. H. R.

 

is

 

Warm brown maiden, kindly weed,

I hail thee, Lady Nicotine!

At daylight's close, when nerves are
keyed,

With lights turned low, I love to read

Alone with you, a pal indeed!

—A pal of glowing friendly mien.

Warm brown maiden, kindly week,

for any damage caused on that occasion,! I love thee, Lady Nicotine!

dae zs :
Mees oi +e or ae

 

  
   
  

O Young New Year standing with folded
wings,

Help me to seek all ptire and lovely things.

O Young New Year stealing on quiet feet,

O Jead my steps in Ways wholesome and

O Young New Year With clear, unsullied

 

. _ —_— a
E— ee ted =

   

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 2ist, 1926

aa
Petes

HULL

|
th

i) te
0

ae

Five Cents The Copy

Imperial Debaters

Uphold Protocol

Representatives of British Universities win
decision of Judge.

for Dalhousie Side.

A. H. E. Molson impressive speaker.

Audience vote

Dalhousie Debaters Uphold Prestige
of Sodales.

By L. W.

FRASER.

 

Basing their case on the argument that

the Geneva Protocol is the best method
by which the world can secure permanent, satisfactory and lasting peace and
urging that the acceptance of the protocol would bring about that sense of international security which is necessary
before there can be any real disarmament
the Imperial debaters from Great Britain, on Saturday evening, won the
unanimous decision of three judges over
the Dalhousie University debaters who
contended that the Protocol was not
worth of the suppcrt of Britain and the
Dominions. The debate was a particularly keen one and as the verbal exchange
passed back and forth across °the
platform the large audience which numbered nearly one thousand expressed its
approval in applause.
- The. British Universities were represented by Paul Reed of King’s College,
Lendon, A. H. E. Molson of Oxterd,
and. President._of the. Oxford Union,
Society, and T. P. McDonald of Edinburgh University. H. A. Davidson,
W.. Jarvis McCurdy, and George Farquhar, appeared on the platferm for
Dathousie. ;

Although the decision of the judges
was against them the Dal. men were far
from being out of it and at all times
during the debates they exchanged word
for word with their more experienced
rivals. When at the conclusion of the
argument the chairman called for an
“aye” and ‘nay’ vote on the merits of
the resolution the volume of “‘nayes”
was clearly the heavier showing that a
large section of the audience was with

the local debaters.
Third Imperial Debate.
The advent of the third Imperial
team on the Dalhousie platform was

awaited with the same interest which
surrounded the two previous debates,
with Oxford in 1923 and Cambridge in
1924. The characteristic style of debating previously displayed had pleased
the. Halifax audiences and had gone far
tc remodel the system of debate within
the Dalhousie Society. Influenced by
the overseas debaters the Dalhousie
orators have during the past three years
got further and further away from the
old system of set speeches and have developed the freer style at which the men
from Oxford and Cambridge are past
masters,

The Imperial! team which visited here
last week presented one striking contrast
to their countrymen who preceeded them,
the 1926 team was more willing to debate
the resolution and less inclined to wander
afield and indulge in the casual repartee
which so delighted the audiences at the
(xford and Cambridge debates. Mindful of the past debates the audience was
prepared to listen to and enjoy severai
minutes ef introductery remarks from
each of the Imperial debaters, but feund
that the visitors were out for business and
prepared to use their whole 15 minutes
in argument. Whether cr not this contrast should be marked up for or against
the 1926 team, is of course a matter ol
personal opinion and whatever that

 

Are you anAbsentee?

A report in ‘‘The Varsity’, University
of Toronto, on the student debates at
Hart House says:

“The keen interest taken by students
in these debates was evidenced on
Tuesday night when the Lecture Room
of Hart House was filled to overflowing
and some members were obliged to sit
on the floor during the proceedings.”’

At the last meeting of Sodales the
interest of the students of Dalhousie was
evidenced by their absence—less than a

 

opinion may be all will alike agree that
the Imperial team of 1926 was comprised
of three eloquent and courteous speakers
who will always be assured of a full house
in the event of another appearance on
the Halifax platform.

Upheld Prestige.

The Dalhousie men although the losers
well upheld the prestige of their Society.
Displaying a well balanced and thoughtful case the local debaters. pounded
away at the case of their opponents and
at the conclusion of the debate had convinced a very large part of the audience
that the Geneva Pretocol was not worth
of the support of Britain and the Dominions.

Colonel W. E, Thompson occupied
the Chair and introduced the speaker
to the audience. The judges of the
debate were Mr. Justice Chisholm, Hon.

. A. Walker and Mayor Kenny. The
ormal subject was antiounced as being
“Resolved that the Geneva Protocol is
worthy of the support of Great Britain
and the Dominions”, with the Imperial
team arguing the affirmative and Dalhousie contending in the negative.

Paul Reed of King’s College, London
was the first speaker to take the floor.
He conveyed the greetings of the students
in the Old Land and said that he and his
colleagues had come to Canada to learn
something of the problems and opportunities here and that they were indeed
learning a great deal. Proceeding then
to a discussion of the resolution the speaker urged that wars and armed warfare
should be done away with and that
active measures should be taken by the
nations to accomplish that end. He
declared that the Geneva protocol supplemented the League of Nations and
was an ambitious attempt designed
for the settlement of international disputes through arbitration. The alternative to the acceptance of the Protocol
was the continuance of arms. ‘‘We do
not contend that the Protocol is perfect
but if we are to wait for perfection we
must wait a long time, although imperfect it is much better than the alternative of militarism,’ concluded the
speaker.

The Difficulties Involved.

H. A. Davidson replied for Dalhousie.
He said that the Protocol was too’ serious
an experiment to attempt without reasonable assurance of suecess and this
assurance he argued was entirely lacking.
Instead cf the Protocol helping to avoid
disputes it would in reality be an additional source of irritation. Vhe speaker
dealt in some detail with the mann ‘+r in
which, under the Protocol, a nation
might become involved in a dispute in
far away territories and in which the
nation had no _ interest and little
sympathy. A council comprised of
foreign politicans could never successfully dictate the foreign policy of another
country.

“lf the voters are still a factor in determining the country’s foreign policy,

(Continued on page 4.)

LAM ts-ssseseenensensiene

score of men and not a single Co-ed
being present.

In the above contrast the onlooker
tight find one reason why Ontario forges
ahead while Nova Scotia is neglected.
If we won't take an interest in College
activities is it likely that later on we'll
concern ourselves with the interests of
our province—and remember if we don’t,
nobody else will.

Let us therefore make at least two
New Year Resolutions.

1. Resolved that we support Sodales
by attending regularly and speaking
when opportunity arises.

Qu.

 
 

*

= EE

“The Dalhousie Gasette.”
| (Founded 1869)

Editor-in-Chief:
Artuur L. Murpuy, 26.

Associate Editors:

Mary A. Beresrorp, 26.
Avis H. MarsuHat, 27.
Ronautp Hayes, 26.
WaRREN Pusticover, 26.
Jack Arwoop

vr Financial Editor:
Cuas. F. MacKenzig,
18 Walnut St.,
Phone $1961.

sbution Rates: $1.00 per year,

 

 

“Hope Springs Eternal’—

From time to time there comes to the editors of the Gazette, from
Just a few words

here or there words of criticism and words of praise.
of either of course, but an editor’s ears are always most attentive.
That is what ears are for, particularly an editor's.
praise may have been deserved: some was not. For both we are
truly grateful. Flattery produces a pleasant sensation if not a
pleasing affect. To our critics we are also indebted. Criticism,
of a constructive nature, is most helpful. We are reminded that the

fault with which our censors most frequently take issue is our
partiality towards criticism! This seems almost illogical on their

part. It is true that we could devote much time and space to
laudations of the efficiency of the invigilators while examinations
were in session. We could eulogize endlessly on the beauties of the
ladies in residence at Sheriff Hall. Andsoonandon. But successful people and projects take care of themselves. It is the unsuccessful and the neglected which require attention and aid. So with
this hypothesis as our maxim we shall continue our present policy
in the hope that somewhere, at some time, somebody may realize
the justice of our claims and take the responsibility upon himself

of doing something.

Students’ Union

Difficult as it may be to believe there are a few bright spots in
an editor’s life——moments during which he can forget that great
devouring monster, the printer, close his ears to the giant’s inkthirsty ery ‘Copy, copy!”’ and turn his thoughts to more pleasant
things. Such an opportunity came to us a few days ago when our
friends from across the water made their fleeting call. Our first
impressions, received from the last row of seats in the Gymnasium on
Saturday night was that they were rather stubborn gentlemen and
strongly inclined toward argument.

Having discarded their official capacities, however, they seemed
much more reasonable and most receptive conversationalists.
They were extremely interested in the most trivial college activities,
while we, in turn, learned much of English university life.

It is indubitably true that undergraduates of the English
universities have much wider powers in the control of their own
interests than have our Canadian students. And this is due in
considerable extent, to the existence of a students’ union, representative of all the universities. Conferences are held at convenient
centres and the organization is one of great power.

Such a union of Canadian colleges and students would be of
supreme value to us all. The accomplishments made possible by
organization cannot be over estimated.

In Canada, however, we have vast obstacles to surmount which
do not prevail in the Mother Country. Foremost among these is
the difficulty of transportation, the great distances which lie between
our colleges. England compares roughly in size with the Maritime
Provinces. To hold a conference of Maritime College representatives would be comparitively simple. But when the most central
point is fifteen hundred miles from either coast, difficulties arise at a
speed which eclipses the most fleety express.

Again, the English universities are, as an average wealthier
than ours. Naturally they have attained a much greater development and their imperative needs are relatively few. The students
as well, are better to do in England. Higher education, we believe
is less general in Europe than in the more democratic new world.
The result is that the Canadian student must acquire his learning
at minimum costs.

It is true that we have the Students Christian Association which,
to a certain extent, forms a band among our colleges, from Vancouver
to the Atlantic coast. But the S. C. A. is not necessarily formed of
representative students. Its very method of enrollment prohibited
this. It possesses no authorative power in the colleges in which it
exists. Its active interests extend only to individual students and
not to universities and university requirements.

The students’ councils are the representative bodies in each
college and it is through them that a general union could best be
effected. Difficult and impraticable as it may prove to be it is
undoubtedly worth thorough investigation, and honest endeavors
towards its promotion should be made.

Mr. R. Munn-May and his colleagues hope to arouse interest
in the movement at the colleges which they visit. At Toronto and
McGill they will attempt to stimulate interest to the point of action.

We wish them every success in the project which they are fostering, and to our wishes we add whatever support and assistance we
may possess.

 

KEEP FRIDAY THE 12th OPEN!

ts Junior-Senior Dance!

the

/
|
| THE DANCE MAGNIFICENT!
| THE AFFAIR OF THE YEAR!

GREATER THAN EVER!
NUMBER 12 ON FEBRUARY !

 

Some of the

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SEVERANCE

ee ee

We stood that night upon the wrackstrewn marge,
The wind slept calm. Milky the moon
did glow
With opal’s fire on the surf below—
The surf of chilly ocean, with his large
E’'er restless surge. Dark stones of
beasly size,
Oft spray kissed by the slow on coming

tide
(Leaving anew the wav'ring sands
flung wide,)

Cold glittered there—dead-set like usurers' eyes.
Behind us far, the rock-girt cliffs so grim,
Loomed high, jet-black in grandeur
quite aloof
Reneath old Earth's
sparkling roof
Of velvet sky—'gainst
clouds did swim.

star-sown and

which plumed

Ah me! since parting then, the tide of
years
With lagging stéps of leaden months
so long
But slow hath crept.
it sears
My aching heart—for on its bosom
strong
It hath disdained to bear me to thy shore;
Where, bliss-mad like the wheeling
gulls above
That night, would
once more
Content. Tell me, dost still remember, love?

Anew—as oft—

I behold thy face

Re he es

 

 

The two 1925 Rhodes’ Scholars for
Ouebec, are Mr. Eugene Alfred Forsey,
of Ottawa, and graduate in Arts from
McGill 1925; and Jean Casgrain, Law
student at the University of Montreal.

From Mail Bag

The Authors’ Club,
London, S. W.,
To the Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette.
Sir:

Your medical number cf Nov. 27th,
has just reached me and I can scarcely
tell you how much | find in it that is interesting to me. For a medical school
to have developed within fifteen years
from the small nucleus I can remember to

the splendidly efficient organization of

today, is in itself ajfeat of which any
University might be frroud.

lam very giad thet I have lived to see
the day when the University, in which |
spent so many happy years, has been
declared to be in “Class A’’, for I cannot
forget how I and iny collegues jooked
forward, at times hopelessly, to that consummation.

lam certain I do not mistate anything
anything when I say that mo one was
more conscious than I of certain shortcomings in connection with the teaching,
to make bricks without straw may be a
useful dicipline, but it is not an encouraging occupation.

I can imagaine with what satisfaction
the President regards this official recognition. In the account of the Department of Physiology, from the pen of my
friend Dr. Hattie, there is one statement
which is not quite correct. It is the
sentence; “there no mammalian
work of any kind.” The italics are mine.
While it is true that the students did
not themselves perform experiments on
living mammals, yet every session |
demonstrated on the anaesthetized rabbit
certain fundamental phenomena. One
of the students gave the anaesthetic for
iit’,

More than “frog-work’’ was carried
out in the room in the basement. The
students made a number of observations
largely on One another, on the physiology
of the senses and of the nervous system.

In Dr. Hattie’s otherwise exhaustive
account of the develépment cf the Medical Faculty he has forgotten to mention
a particularly interesting little course ol
instruction in which he himself participated; I refer to the Lectures on Medical
i thics. I believe I &m correct in saying
that this course of three lectures was the
first of its kind to be given in any Canadian University. Dr] J. G. MacDougall
dealt with the relations of the practitioner
to the public, Dr. Hattie with those of th
practitioner to his) brother-physicians,
while I disctissed his relations to thi
patient.

[ mention this merely to show how
anxious | andimy colleagues were to make
the Dalhousie School of Medicine as
efficient as possible|in every direction.

I need not emphasize the many obstacles which we encountered, especially
owing to the war; }jut | for one always
had the assurance {hat the Governors
were as anxious as any of us to develop
the school; but that)even they could not
perform a miracle, The Faculty ol
Medicine at Dalhoufie University is not
the only Faculty of Medicine | have seen
evolve from small beginnings. When |
went to St. Andrews University in 1898
there was no laboratary of any kind in the
Physiology Department—lI started three,
these of Physiology, Histology and Biochemistry.

This same process of differentiation
and division of labour I have been
privileged to see once more and it cannot
but be a source of gratification to me to

was

>

= SSS

January 21, 1926

 

 

 

 
   

15‘ per pkt.
29 for d0*

ALSO IN TINS OF
50 for 70¢

  

££ ;

Lmperial Tobacco Ca of Canada, Li

know how surprizingly rapid has been
the rise of the Dalhousie School of Medicine.
have been able to assist in the earlier
years when we seemed to be doing little
else than laving foundations.
1 am,
Yours faithfully,

(Sed.) D. FRASER HARRIS.

Ed. note.—Dr. Fraser Harris is evidently under the misimpression that Dr.
Hattie wrote the article, in the Medical
Issue, on the Department of Physiology.
This was written by one of the students
in the Medical Faculty.

To the Editor,
Dalhousie Gasette.
Dear Editor:

When I picked up the dated
December third, nineteen hundred and
twenty-five, [| saw an article, a
article, but a very iateresting one. It
was the editorial, and was. entitled,
“Wake up! Dalhousians.’” However,
[ must admit, it had an altogether opposite effect one me, as you shall ste. |
read the article thru with great interest.

The first paragraph which interested
me was entitled, ““The Sermon.” Yes,
it was a sermon, a severe little sermon too,
but | feel assured that it hit the mark at
which it was aimed. As I read it ther
came to me a feeling of appreciation for
the amount of work and time which the
editor and his capable staff give to this,
our college paper.

On reading the next paragraph, which
was entitled, “It's Up to You”, this
feeling deepened until I determined to do

Gazette

long

my share to support our editor, and
thereby our college paper. ‘‘It’s Up to
You.” “You.” . Yes, that evidently

means me as well as all the other Dalhousians who are interested in the success
of the Dalheausie Gazette.

“The little black box.” How often
I’ve passed the little black box in the
library hanging there on the wall without
so much as one friendly manuscript
peeping thru the bars at the bottom.
Most of us refuse that little box even
our slightest effort.

Musing thus there came into my mind
the words of the text, “Inasmuch as
you have done it unto the least cf these,
you have done it unto me.” How well
these words could be adjusted to suit
this occasion. ‘“‘Inasmuch as you have
given to this little box, you have given
unto me, your college pap mY

While I was pondering on the paragraph entitled, “A Blacker VFicture,”
| began to nod. Soon I slept,—and
dreamed. (Cne will sleep when one is
ensconced cosily in an armchair, before
a blazing grate fire, on a bleak December
afternoon.) :

It was Thursday morning. The Gaz
efts were piled high on the Library desk,
I took my copy, then seated myself at
a nearby desk. I turned directly to th
editorial. I always read the editorial
first because it always interests me th:
most. It was entitled, “And this isn't
half.” I wondered, ‘Isn’t half of what?’
I was not kept wondering long. As |

 

  
   

read I realized that the title referred to
the troubles of the Editor. He was

[ count it a great privilege to} pouring them out upon the pages of the

Gazette. He was almost in a state of
despair. Manuscripts had been pouring
into his office. Each time he entered
his office he was forced to plough his
way thru piles and piles of papers.
Several new waste paper baskets were
needed to receive those articles which
were thrown aside. The little black box
in the Library had to be replaced by one
vastly larger. Many new assistants had
to be added to the staff. What did it
all mean?

Only this, that the plea of the staff
of the Ga°etie, “It’s up to You,” had
been heard and answered by all. The
result was—, well a whole lot worse tha
the editor had bargained for. Hits plea
had been heard by those who could write
as well as those who couldn't write, the
latter were greatly in the majority, and
therefore the office of the Gazetle was
floeded with prose and poetry, nonsense

Mr. Editor!
a stone exploded in

ancl doggerel. Poor

The fire crack: cl,

the grate, and I awoke. I stretched.
Had I been dreaming? Then the whole
(ream came back to me. At first it

struck me as being funny and I began to
laugh. Then I saw the serious side of it.
Not more than twenty minutes before J
had been contemplating sending a contribution to the Gagette. I picked up the
paper from where it had fallen at my feet.
The first sentence which caught my eye
was, “There are scores of people at Dal
who can write, but never do write.”’
That is very true, but it made me think,
‘There are also scores of people at Dal
who can’t write but often do write.”
lam one of the latter class. Despite that
fact I have decided to write this letter to
tell you about my dream. It can do no
harm. Who knows? Perhaps it is
just practice we need in order to become
one of those who can write. At any rate
we can try.

Wishing the staff of the Dalhousie
saselle a bright and prosperous New
Year,

[ am,
DREAMER
-Arts '29.

 

GLORY FOR DALHOUSIE,
Come, sons of old Dalhousie, cheer your
sandy team! Rouse out a welcome to your me of steel

and steam!
They win the victory and tonight the
birds will scream, ,
“This is Dathousie Day!"
‘horus:
Glory, glory for Dalhousie!
Glory, glory for Dalhousie!
Glory, glory for Dalhousie!
This is Dalhousie day!

Whoop up the chorus, boys, let everybody sing!

>well out your lusty lungs and send it
with a swing!

‘ “

And for Dalhousie, boys, we'll make the
welkin | ring:

‘This is Dalhousie's Day!’’

 
Page Three

 

Corn on the Cob

a + ear Ta 8g
fo py 
“ —_
Ti tet res

 

    

Fw the Masonic Hall. As I took a seat in the dining car, |
glanced around and saw my friend Smith

sitting alone nearby with an unusually

hearted waiter ushered a stout lady
of forbidding countenance to the seat
him.

   
 
 

by Lucy Gertrude Clarkin,
os t fies uughout its pages nothoor or mediocre. Its range
ide—the final Review of the
» Pact being a delightfully colorserious interpretation ef the leadrsonalities involved in this InterConference, together with a
escription of the picturesque and
town of Locarno on the shores of
beautiful Lake Maggiore. This
e reveals the author’s keen obserof present day affairs and is an
pt on his part to impart a strong,
message to those who Scere
to understand the significance of
n growth and development. The
ed and White” is sumptuous and atactive, richly larded with brief quotas, both in prose and verse, from the
literature of the world. The Exge Editor of the “Red and White"
invited honest criticism from sister
es, and may we, in all seriousness
with unhurried consideration, assure
that the magazine is a decided credit
his college, that the prose articles
cially, for example, the one called
ic and History,’ show evidence of
ful thought and a scholarly applicanm and mastery of the subject in hand,
the whole edition providing enjoyable
reading to the outside reader.

The “Acadia Bulletin,” which is the
Alumni publication of Acadia University,
~ Wolfville, N. S., contains a very interesting and illustrated article describing
| their new building, University Hall,
_ which replaces the old College Hall, de stroyed by fire in December, 1920. The
rest of the paper is taken up with Obituary Notices, Personals, and Corrected
Addresses.

Seven times during the college year
“The New Brunswickan”’ is published by
- the students of the University of New
Brunswick, Fredericton, N. B. In size
and make-up it compares very favorably

i for literary

above, but its literary value is noticeably
inferior, the chief incentive for literar,
deay i r number at

ip in football

ss. There is much
igiorious vaunting of
prowess. T < N.

usie game of Nov. 7th is given

»orted by our players on their return
Palifax. “A Story of Malta’ and
“Memories of the ighshariboo! "are
- redeemin rose features, but the poetic
output ‘of this magazine is remarkably
- conservative; for, besides the poem given
on the first page, called “Cn the Road,”
_ by C. G. D. Roberts, there are but three
other attempts contributed to the Poets’
Corner, ;

" ¢**"The Contact Point” is certainly a
- Suggestive title for the publication of the
- Dental School of the College of Physicjans and Surgeons, at San Francisco,
fn = S. A particularly interesting
"article for Pasterners is the description of
- atrip among the Calaveras, which is the
largest grove of the largest trees in the
- world. Some of these trees are between
thirty and forty feet in diameter and
between three hundred and four hundred
and fifty feet high, and scientific men of
note’ have pronounced them to be from
- two thousand to four thousand years old.
"The Contact Point’ has started a
_ worthy campaign in favor of the ‘Keep
Clean Fabit;’ the object being to create
_ a taste fora clean interior and a clean ex_ terior, and to cultivate physical, mental,
moral and spiritual cleanliness.

i

Na Since the last publication of, the /‘DalRhousie Gazette’’ we have received, in
‘addition to the above, one or more num‘bers of the following: ‘The MeGill
'Daily,” ‘The a ‘The Gateway”,
“The Argosy Weekly,” “Ypsi Sem,”
“Western Gazette,” ‘“Xaverian Weekly,”
“The Odyssey,” “The Sheaf,” ‘The
C legian,”” “The Student,” ‘Trinity
University Review,” “The Gold and
: tf ck,” “The Tattler,” ““The New OutTook,” “The Canadian Student,” “The
Merchiston.”

  

| CLASS JEWELLERY !
{| Weare in a position to make
{| all kinds of CLASS PINS and

| RINGS and will retain the dic

 
 
 

    
 
 

SEE US FIRST.

   
 

 
  

t ‘
3 a.

=a

ee

with the “Red and White,” mentioned |

tly different construction from that |.

  
 

gentlemen arrived from Wolfville Frid‘ay morning (Nov .15). They were entertained for luncheon by the members of
the Phi-Kappa-Pi Fraternity and durthe afternoon they were escorted through our various college builaings. We
have not heard their opinions concerning
the hockey game Friday evening but in
all probability they enjoyed the typical
(?) “Dal night” as well as the typical (?)
Dal. game, The next morning some |of our
students introduced the |visitors to the
“interesting and historic sites” in our
city and in the afternoon they motored
around the outskirts. The four gentlemen all said they enjoyed debating with
Dal. students, and were especially delighted that they did not have to confer
themselves to a long “List of Rules for
Debating’ as they half-expected: in
other words they appreciated our style
of debating which is not so very remote
from the British method. After the
debate they were the guests of honor at
a banquet in the Green Lantern; through
speeches and informal conversion those
men interested in debating became fairly
well acquainted with zach other.

On Sunday afternoon the visiting
students were again the guests of honor
at a small tea given by Miss Lowe at
Sheriff Hall. Old debaters were present
as well as representatives from the
various organizations at Dal. and King’s,
and the members of the debating advisory board. It was a pleasure to talk
with students from another country and
from other universities, and to become
acquainted with their college life. They
were very congenial indeed and they
seemed anxious to chat about Canadian
problems. Needless to say the tea was
very delightful and enjoyable.

The series of British debating teams
that have been coming to Canada during
the past few years have done a great
dea! for the Canadian students—for not
only have they stimulated debating in
our country, but they have awakened a
a spirit of internationalism within us:

   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
    
  
   
 
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  

. _ Cable Address: “McINNES”
‘McInnes, Jenks, Lovett & Macdonald
_ Barristers, Soticirrors &c.

j HALIFAX, N. S.

Hector McInnes, K.C. W.C. Macdonald, K. C

Stuart Jenks, K. C. PF. B. A. Chi
L. A. Lovett, K. C. NE. Mackay

 

Gauvin & Gentzel

Photographers

SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

Small
But Important

YOUR shoes, hat, suit or overcoat

may pass unobserved, but
people invariably notice the Co_Lar
you wear—it is the one article of
dress that stands out.

The collars we launder give you
that confidence which comes from
good grooming—they have just the
proper body and flexibility and are

shaped right, and because no welldressed man wears a shiny collar,
we give that smooth, no-gloss finish,
which is so acceptable.

L 1403

Halifax

Steam Laundry
85 West St.

BOB JOHNSON’S
TWO BOBBER SHOPS

First Class Service The Home of the Shingle

Majestic Theatre Building and
Cor, George and Barrington Sts.
Don’t NEGLECT Your APPEARANCE

  

 

 

 

    

-) Dathousie Law Sohoah,

George V., by the Grace of God, etc.
Ts YOU |
of Halifax, in the County of Halifax.

WE COMMAND YOU, that within
TWELVE days after the service of this
Writon you, inclusive: ofthe day of such
service, you do cause an appearance for
you at the ANNUAL LAW BALL.

AND TAKE NOTICE, That in default
of your so doing, the Plaintiff may proceed therein and judgment may be given
in your absence.

oe the 21st day of January, A. D.,

*

The Defendant may appear hereto by entering appearance either personally
or with partner at the Masonic Hall
at Halifax, in the County of Halifax

Engineering Notes

A special meeting of the Engineering
Society was held on January 11th. The
social committee brought in a report on a
proposed class party to be held near the
endef January. After a short discussion
it was decided to have a sleigh drive
followed by a dance at the house of one
of the members of the society who offered
it for the occasion, All necessary arrangements were left to the committee.

The Engineers have cbtained the use
of the rink two hours a week for hockey
practice. Considering our number the
turnout has been good, but the rink can
accommodate lots more. We can stand
much more enthusiasm and support at
our gym periods however, and our basketball team needs all the practice it can get.
A aumber of Commerce men are turning
out and giving lots of help, but never
 

theless Tuesday d Thursday 5-6
are the Engineers gym periods.
Who says the Engineers haven't

any of that stuff thev call college spirit?
The showed lots of if at the DalhousieWanderers game on Friday night. Our
representation was 50% and the Engin2ers yell went over strong. Come on

you other faculties, show your stuff at
‘he next game.

 

Cleaning Clothes and
Pressing Them is

A Real Science

Now

Our recently erected plant for
the care of your clothing is
the last wordin modern
science for this purpose.

Our VALETERIA SERVICE
shapes and presses your clothing like the maker did when
he made it,

Our Cleaning is done by the
Glover Continuous Purifying
System which revives your
clothes.

‘PHONE LORNE 1265

COUSINS

Master Cleaners and Dyers

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

BOOKS ON

Science, Art, Poety
Fiction, etc.

ALSO

School and College Text Books

Commercial and Saciety Stationery

T.C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville St.
HALIFAX

 

 

to a meal or two at his house. There
I had met his wife and discovered that he
was miserably henpecked—absolutely
and completely so. To see him enter
the room with his vast dominating
spouse, always reminded me of the
Majestic” sailing along with a little
scurrying tug—quite out of breath—
hastening up in the rear. At the table,
Mrs. Smith had discoursed learnedly on
vitamines, calories, fatty degeneration
of the heart ete., etc. ad nauseam; while:
the meal itself was a ghastly proof that
poor Smith couldn't even humor the
old feed-bag as he would like.

So now I decided that he must be off
on a trip by himself and was ordering
one rousing repast to celebrate his temporary liberation from ‘“‘health-bread”’,
nut butter and Postum. Now Smith is
naturally a timid soul, shrinking from
notoriety like paper from a flame, so [
was naturally much surprised when |
saw the waiter set before him a dish
containing several luscious ears of
golden corn. Why the surprise? Well,
we are all of us corn fans more or less
I suppose, but how many of us weuld
risk our reputations by attempting to
eat corn-on-the-cob in public—and a
dining car at that? Mighty few, I
think. In the privacy of one’s own home
where one can take off one’s coat, roll
up one’s sleeves, catch hold of the cob
in both, hands and splash around in
butter to one’s heart's content, it is all
right. But most of us stop at that,
although in some fancy hotels I believe,
they have little silver handles to stick
in at both ends of the cob, whereby one
can attempt the hazardous feat. However, this method is cruel in its artificiality and moreover, the handles are
generally too hot to touch. Smith is
an ardent cornfan and it was soon
evident that he proposed to enjoy his
corn to his heart’s content and to h--l
with dining cars and everybody in ’'em,

He selected an ear, buttered it liberally
on all sides, took hold of it in the classic
‘‘mouth-organ clutch” and started operations at once with the same nonchalence
as if he were going to play ‘“Tannhauser's
Triumph” in twenty-two flats for the
Shah of Persia. Even with the train
going, I could hear the gurgling and
splashing and could--presently see -one
stream of liquid butter disappearing
under his cuff—to what unfathomable
depths, I knew not. It was ghastly,
I tell you.

He had finished one ear and was preparing to tackle another, when the hard
opposite 1 glanced at her and

}: Wives ace laintiff. contented expression upon his fat,| realized that she was Mrs. Smith's
hem our ea You . Defendent enial face, oor old Smithy! I knew most ardent co-worker in her campaign
. The four | efendent. | him fairly well and had even been invited | for food-reform. As for Smith himself,

when he saw that grim visage—melancholy as a hair pin on a tombstone, his
colour; now beety-red, now ashen, waxed
and waned alarmingly under its glistening mask of liquid butter and he trembled
as if stricken with palsey.

But it was too late to repent now, so
with desperate determination, he started

in again. He soon abandoned the
‘‘mouth-organ clutch” under those eagle
eyes and tried the more fastidious

‘‘piccolo-hold” (or ‘‘flute-grip”) by which
one butters only a little patch of the cob
at a time, nibbling it daintly from one
side. At this point the train struck a
particularly tortuous stretch of track.
The car swayed from side to side, so did
Smith, so did the corn cob. Well
lubricated as it was, the skidding hazards
were too great to avoid and the wretched
thing slipped from his grasp falling into
the dish of liquid butter with disastrous
results to the table-cloth.

I was now really concerned for the
safety of my friend’s reason. He sat
there looking like bad news from Siberia,
whilst the more compassionate of the
people nearby strove to avert their eves
from the pitiable spectacle.

He seized the thing again however,
and bekind the improvised screen of a
menu-card, went back to the ‘“‘mouthorgan clutch”. Dut alas for his hopesto finish in peace! The heartless waiter
soon pounced upon the menu-card for
the use of a newly arrived patron and
there was Smith once more exposed to the
withering glances of his table companion,
His napkin by this time had assumed
that pale lemon color (or is it “ecru”
which is quite fashionable it seems.
There was nothing to do but to try the
piccolo-hold again. He got along fairly
well for a’ time but soon the train hit
another sharp curve, his fingers skidded
again and the ill-fated corn cob thus
liberated struck his tumbler of water
(which had gyrated too near the edge
of the table) knocking it over into his
lap and on to the floor, ‘‘magno cum
clamore."’

My friend was now altogether past
acting rationally, so I was not surprised
to see him jump up, grab his plate and
rush from the car in breathless haste—
dripping with butter and water both.

He told me afterwards that he had
gone out to the end of the car and there
finished the confounded stuff in peaceful
seclusion, returning when his grim vis-avis had departed.

eo Ges ces

 

 

Up-to-date shop, with four
chairs and FIRST CLASS

BARBERS in attendance.

Spec1AL Bospspinc PARLORS
For Ladies

 

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

 

Don't Envy a Good
Appearance !

Come to SHIELD’S BARBER SHOP and
enjoy the benefit of expert service. Always
five of the most proficient barbers procurable on hand. Our Harr Curiunae is sure
satisfy. Lapres’ Harr Curtine in all
styles; also Curttnc, SHAampoornc and
Massacina.

SAM. A. SHIELDS

Prop.

41 Sackville St.

One trial will convince.

phone S 4780

_——
——— eee

 

**Eversharp’’ Leads

FREE

give an EXTRA
‘Eversharp”’

We fill your pencil and
Box FREE w th every
Pencil this month

50c up

KELLYS Ltd.
GRANVILLE STREET

Be aera,

   
  
   
      
     
   

 

 

Nova Scotia Nursery

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
THREE PHONES

 

Cut Flowers, Bouquets
and all Floral Work

 

UNGAR’S
VALETERIA

A NEW PRESSING SERVICE

4 tickets good any time
for Four PrReEssincs

$2.00

 

 

 

Ungar’s Cleaning & Dyeing

S 428

BARRINGTON ST.

 

  

The Green Lantern

is a restaurant where
Pure Foops are
served at Moderate
Prices. ::

Light Lunches and Ice Cream

ARE VERY POPULAR HERE
'

   
    
   

  

FAIRLY

JEWELRY price
H. C. HENDERSON

HIGH
CLASS

57 Granville Street, - - Cor. Sackville

 

 
 
 
   

 

 

eee — <a
pee va ee Se
= a ly 4 ; ae 2

a oe >

F «| [ a
i s 2

 

-_ ” * - . \

| and FURNISHINGS

WV. F. Page

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 

Imperial Debaters
(Continued from page 1.)

 

the Protocol is already doomed to failure”, declared Mr. Davidson.

A. H. E. Molson, of Oxford and President of the Oxford Union Society, was,
in the opinion of many, easily the best
speaker on the platform. With a

racteristically English accent he took
his audience into his confidence and then
proceeded to swezp aside the arguments
of his opponents. The manner in which
he turned to his own advantage an argument used by the preceeding speaker was
a brilliant bit of debating and brought
a burst of well deserved applause.

; Organized Civilization.

Mr. Molson admitted the difficulties
involved but argued that anything
which gave a reasonable hope of doing
away with war was worthy of support.
He said, ‘‘I do not argue that by the
Protocol you can entirely eliminate war,
you cannot hope to do that just as you
cannot eliminate murder, but just as
all civilization has been organized against
murder, so all civilization can be organized against war.” ;

W. Jarvis McCurdy continued for
Dalhousie and pointed to the many
international difficulties which would

revent the Protocol! from being successully carried out. The signatory state
stood to lose through the operation of
the machinery while the offending state
could ally itself with non-members such
as the United States and Germany and
thus secure a real advantage in trade.
The speaker drew a picture of the difficulties which might arise between the
United States sail Canada and declared
that the Protocol was not worthy of
support because it was not workable.

The Crying Need.

T. B. McDonald of Edinburgh Un iversity closed the case for the Affirmative, ‘Disarmament,’ he declared, ‘‘is
the crying need of the world, the Geneva
Protocol is the first step in obtaining that
sense of security which must preceed
disarmament.” The speaker argued
that the machinery cfiered by the aflirmative was the best method by which
permanent, satisfactory and lasting peace
could be secured.

George Farquhar closed the debate.
Mr. Farquhar who debated for Dalhousie in 1907 and who is now studying
Law entered the debate with little notice
when the leader of the Dal team W. FE.
Darby became incapacitated through
a train accident. The speaker reiterated
the objections te the Frotocel and. sug
ested other measures which would be
tter calculated to bring about international peace.

Say it with Flowers, Say it with Ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers «2 Potted Plants

We make up Funerat Desians,

Weppinc Bouquets. We
also do Tasie Decoratinc. We
are the only members of the

T. F. D. Florists. We can wire
Flowers to all parts of the world.

THE ROSERY

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phones Sac. 3321-3322 Night Phone Sac. 1934

For Distinctive Style and
All-round Excellency

“ Astoria’”’
SHOES

For Men

Stand out as the Leaders in’
. Canadian Footwear.

SHOE DEALER

. and Dartmouth

 

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:

In view of the column on Interfaculty
Sport which appeared in a recent issue
of the Gazette I should like to make a few
comments.

The committee managing Interfaculty
sport is made up of the managers of the
teams participating in that branch of
sport with the Vice-President of the D. A.
A. C. to act as chairman. By this
arrangement the control of the sport is
in the hands of those who should be most
interested in it, and who in turn have
been elected to carry out the wishes of
their society.

The object of the committee is to
provide for any demand for ‘‘Interfaculty
Sport” not to create that demand. If
any person feels that the leagues provided
are not sufficiently long, or are improperly
conducted, he should call his manager
to account and ask for explanation.

One of the chief difficulties is that
managers are elected by Societies without
being consulted previously and, if absent
from the meeting, without being notified
of their election. Again the executives
of the societies should have the power to
deal with any proposal or smal! expenditure of the Interfaculty Committee,
without the delay occasioned by calling
a general meeting of the Society.

The Football league was severely
criticized. I saw most of the games
and think that considering that many ol
the players were ignorant of the rules,
was sufficiently was

the refereeing

sufficiently strict. Breaches of good
conduct on the field were not to be seen
and I do not think they were present to
any marked ‘extent. The league compleated one round and due to adverse
weather conditions and the lateness
of the season it was considered inadvisable te start another.

As only two hours a week are provided
for all teams, time for play is very limited. To get over this difficulty 1 would
suggest that next year the committee
run two games a week, one on Tuesday
and one on Thursday beginning at one
o’clock, and that lunch be provided for
the players at the Murray Homestead.
This was carried out to a small extent
this year and with success. The average
cost per head was Twenty-one cents.

The Basket-ball and Hockey Leagues
are drawn up and will be gotten under
was immediately. The basketball will
be played on Saturday afternoon. A.
suggestion to play one night a week as
well was voted down by the managers.
The Hockey League will be played on
Tuesdays and Thursdays at Noon, and
Saturday at 2.00 p.m. Again a suggestion to play at night was rejected. ‘The
committee is determined that refereeing
shall be strict and impartial, and that
all attempts to spoil the game by poor
sportsmanship will be severely dealt
with,

I cannot see any objection to playing
second team men for, in spite of the talk
sO many desiring to play, all | aculties
have difficulty in making up full teams.

If those having criticizms to offer
would sign them it would help to find
the source of much of the present trouble.

Yours truly,
HE WAT.

W. Hi,

   

$24.00

~ Suit or
Over Coat

Best value

 

 
  
  

to your measure.
in Canada.

   

See the many advantages
we offer over sending away

   

thousands of miles for your

clothes.

     

Clayton & Sons

HALIFAX

       

interfaculty Sport

Basketball

ee ee ee

Dalhousie 25--Wanderers 17,

Scoring the first Dalhousie First Team
victory of the New Year and avenging
both a football and a hockey defeat the
Senior Basketball Team by superior
combination work, and quickness in
handling the ball beat the Wanderers
in an overtime game at the '“Y”’ gym
last Saturday night. It might be as well
to mention here that the League timetable was drawn up a long time ago, and
that accounts for the game being played
the same night as the big Dalhousie
defeate, so the game had to be played
or forfeited.

At the end of the first pericd the score
stood in Dal's favor. In the second the
Wanderers crept slowly up till they were
a point or so aheatl) Then Dal. tried
the score. About this time Wilson was
put off the floor for four personal fouls
and Langstroth went on instead. This
made a large difference for Wilson was
playing his first fame for two years, and
consequently was rather off his stride.

The overtime hadn’t gone far when
Hewart, who played with Dal. last year,
netted the ball for the Wanderers. But
then Dal. woke up and playing a brilliant
game ran in 10 points. - Only a fair sized
crow witnessed the game, Dal’s supporters numbering about 20. Dal. plays her
league games every Saturday night and
all of them at the “Y” gym.. That
Saturday she plays the crack “Y”’
team who Saturday night defeated the
champions of last year. As this is going
to be a particularly hard game, Manager
Tupper begs to suggest that his team
get a little better support on next Saturday night.

McLeod 12, McL¢@nnan 5, Langstroth
4, Wilson 3, Smith,@, Doyle 0, Moore 0.

 

ALPHA BET A You know the rest of this

alphabet, but won't you
learn the music from a Music Dealer's Text Book.
It starts like this:

Amherst Pianos, Accordeons
Auto Harps, Banjos, Bugles
Cremonaphones, Cornets, Cellos
Celestaphones, Clarionets, Drums
Gerhard-Heintzman Pianos

EVERYTHING IN SHEET MUSIC

 

We also carry a nice line of Pictures

Harrison Fisher’s, Maxfield’s, Parrish’s, ete.

 

WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN OUR
FICTION LENDING SOCIETY

2c per day

McDonald Music Co.

393 Barrington St. HALIFAX

 

  

Dalhousie Students

GET YOUR
STATIONERY, MAGAZINES
CONFECTIONERY
SOFT DRINKS, TOBACCO
CIGARS and CIGARETTES

    
   
   
      

Academy Fruit Store

Cor. Barrington and Salter Sts.

Pavers:
Oxfords *

    
     

Smart
FOR MEN

Well-dressed men know that Oxfords
are necessary to ke¢p up appearances.
These very men are the fellows you see
daily at WALLACE’S buying Oxfords
and Spats.
OXFORDS, $4, $7, $8 to $11
SPATS, $2, $3 to $3.50

Bros.

GTON ST. 4

Wallac

523 BARRI

 

Dail - Kings 1.
Wanderers 6.

The Dal.-King’s team went down to
its fifth consecutive defeat of the season
last Friday evening,

With the best setting for a victory that
a Dalhousie Hockey team has had for
years the Varsity team cracked badly in
the second period and went to bits with a
6-1 defeat written up against it. And
this trouncing was administered by a
team which only a week before had themselves been beaten 11-1 by the Crescents.
It is, to say the least, not only disheartening but disgraceful. Last year we lost
the first game when we shouldn’t have,
but then last year there was some excuse
for the team played well during the last
two periods. But Friday night. Well
the only reason why Dal. appeared strong
in the first period was because the Wanderers were just sparing, picking out the
weal spots, and any other team but the
Wanderers would have needed only five
minutes to do that. It was far easier
to pick out the strong spots, but the
Tiger was a Leopard that night and the
spots kept changing.

Lewis was effective, but was over
worked and received very poor support.
Wilson was poor. He hardly ever got
past center ice and when he did it was
only to lose the puck at the defence when
a pass might have at least have taken it
as far as the goal tender. Ernst, worked
hard. But what was the use, time after
time as he rushed down the ice forwards
would watch him go by and then skate
curiously after him as-though they were
saying to themselves ‘Now where on
earth is he going?’ George, however,
seems rather afraid to use his weight
Not once did he check, easily or otherwise, giving one the impression, if you
didn’t know him, that he was rather
afraid to come into econtatt with an
opponent. Bates was good, no deubt
about that, but a few hard, and most
of them illegitimate, checks soon knocked
the speed out of him. At times he not
only had to pass the entire Wanderers
team to get at the goal but the two Dal.
wing men as well. They seemed to tie
with each other in getting in Fatie’s way.
First one, then the other, then both
would skate in front of him, then they
would come to life and/down the ice three
abreast they would dash, but it wouldn't
last. One or the other would muddle
his pass and away they went, back to
their “interference competiticn”. They
didn’t check. Why to watch those forwards, admittedly light, making their
feeble efforts to check you wouldn't
think that any one of them ever played
a game of poker in his life. All this
critizism is not because Dalhousie lost,
for that’s all in a life time, but to see the

way that team or rather “bunch,”
played Friday night must have been
enought to turn Joe MacManus’ hair
grey.

This as you can seejis not an account
of the game but a goed knocking and a
well merited, but not a personal criticism.
There are only two things you can do to

a defeated team condole them and
criticize them. The Gazette condcoles
them’ because of their deflect but fer
ticizes them: because of their playing.

WINNERS From The

Ra Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter

what your favorite sport may be, we

can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods

HALIFAX ‘3 N. S.

 

| George F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobaccos

  

 

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION

—aLgOo—

Cards and Souvenirs of Halifax

  

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX

 

:

     
     
   
   
   
    
 

January 21, 1926

Basketball League

‘ There are two Dal. teams in the league
this year. The Dal. Second Team and
one from Pine Hill, On Friday evening
the Datheusie Team took St. John’s
into camp to the tune 27-16. The game
was fairly close in the first period which
produced the best brand of basketball
of the game. - Dalhousie, however managed to emerge with a three point lead
and having half a victory under their
belts they went onto the floor for the
second half determined not to be cheated
of victory. When the period was over
it was found the Dalhousie had scored
just twice as many as their opponents.
Dal’s superior condition and snappier
work around the basket accounted for
the victory. Bill Clarke wastop scorer
having 10 points to his credit. Lest
Miller who is showing great form their
year netted 7, Lee’s remarkable speed
stood him in good stead and he is a
particularly valuable man on a big floor
Sperry at center, though he only scored
2 points, was in a large measure responsible for the victory. In spite of his short
statute he managed to secure the ball
almost every time and at that from an
opponent who stood head and shoulders
over him.

Clarke 10, Douglas 2,
2, Hewat 3, Jones 3, A. T.
referee.

So far Pine Hill has played two games
and under the efficient coaching of Bill
Richardson they have come out on top
in both of them.
sepa ee tc ce tse

Miller 7, Sperry
Bradshaw

It is not a new inexperienced team that is
representing Dalhousie and King's this
year, but one which contains five players
of last year's Championship team. The
writer has been following the Dalhousie
practises fairly steadily and he has also
watchetl the Wanders three or four times
both before and after their Crescent
defeat. The difference between the two
was’ most marked, the Wanderer’s
worked all the time they were on the ice,
worked hard and in a determined manner.
The Dalhousians on the other hand has
too much of a carefree manner they take
things too easily, practising in the same
way as a lot of little boys with a tin-can
puck on a pond would play.

Unless Manager Mac Manus can knock
some combination and spirit into his
team, and its not his fault that it isn’t
already there, then it looks as though
Dal’s. five championship players will be
down looking up at the end of the season,
and they will have only themselves to
blame. If the team would get some
spirit into it, get down to business and
really try and make each practise better
than the last then there is every hope
that once again Dal. will top the league.
Until this is done they can’t expect to
get the support that is due them as
Dalhousie’s Hockey team.

 

 

If You Want to See Well
See WALLACE

T. J. WALLACE
¥. M. C. A, Bldg.

Optometrist & Optician

 

The Dress Shop

sf

The Hat Shop

cS a?

 

 

THREE INDIVIDUAL SHOPS IN ONE

Second floor, where exclusiveness
and moderate prices prevail,

Jensen & MillsCo. Ltd.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD

 

When in Town

GET THE

Three Essentials

- Pure Food and Candy

2. Prompt and Courteous
Service

3. Low Prices
AT THE

PALACE OF SWEETS

427 BARRINGTON ST. _—_ Geo. Alexander

    
     

hoe

          
    
     

   

  

 
