    
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
 
    
    
    
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
     
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
     
      
     
      
       
   
   
   
    
  
 
         
   
       
     
   
   

 

 

. BASKETBALL TIGERS CONTINUE WINNING STREAK
alcolm Honour Award Committee Chosen

Re gy

 

 

THE GENTLEMAN THE SPORTSMAN

'AAMPUS
LIPPINGS

BY DON BLACK

 

 

| Again U. B. C. pops up with a
_novelty—a baby-minders organization ‘among the men of the campus.
| The boys will mind your baby, (1
month to 22 years) if you want to
‘go out of a night. Fees moderate
a and the best of care and all that
; sort of thing.
% J 3
; me “Another contribution of U.B.C, to
a college press are reprints of|
- short poems of D. H. Lawrence.
_ Having apparently exhausted the
- possibilities in Dorothy , Parker’s
ee. ‘Lawrence’s work is being
mercilessly pilfered all across the
"country and attributed to some
genius named Ubussey.
* ES

 

% *

BLANCHARD WISWELL

 

Once again the Council of Stu
scholar, a gentleman and a sportsman, to make up the Malcolm Honor Award Committee.
G. M. (Mike) SMITH
Dr. Wilson and Dr. Bell—these students, May Boswell, Mike Smith
(Chairman) and Blanchard Wiswell,
shall decide which potential graduate is most worthy of receiving the
coveted Malcolm Award.

%
ve ls
fe


| =

| = |
> eo die Hawkins is cavorting all
t

   
 

C. 0. T. C. SNAPS.

ow ex the country. McGill barely
os ‘survived a visit, Saskatchewan is exaa _ pecting a eall at any time, Mount
_ A, is also preparing for the Dog
| yenes vixen.
ise Sh a striking editorial calling for
- Seandor, straight thinking and hon-ést judgment” on the conscription
question, Nathan Cohn, editor of
- Mount A’s Argosy, asks that people,
- before making up their minds on the
2 "conscription issue as a whole, or Mr.
= King’s plebiscite, consider what con-seription means, its advantages and
disadvantages. He deplores those
: who take a stand on these issues
- purely as a matter of party pre_ judice. “These are vital questions
and must be considered.” “There is
he only one way — by analyzing the
facts logically and without pre_ judiee.” One question Mr. Cohn—
- ‘Where ean one secure ‘the facts”,
Ye, Without prejudiced opinion on what,
ae exactly, is the stand on the issue of
r) conscription for overseas service
Se taken by the majority of the French
_ Canadian population when one has
ke: ~ not. the time or money to spend
Ae ee fortnight travelling in rural

x; Quebec?

 

This award is given in honor of
the late Jimmy Malcolm, who was

Lt.8s 7G, Hobie, B.A., M.A, a
graduate of Dalhousie, bins been assigned to the Dalhousie-King’s Contingent as assistant to Major Hogan.

C.Q.M.S. Lockhart is recuperating
at home after his recent operation
in which he gave birth to his 9 lb.
baby appendix We expect to have
him back with us soon.

* *& »

tleman. It is the highest honor

classmates.

Lest You Forget

And
Live To Regret

Remember, the campaign for
selling Year Books closes on Feb.
15th. Only those books sold by
that date shall be ordered. Two
dollars will do the trick — buy
your’s now!

DIPO

Your Favorite Magazine?

 

The exam given last Sunday is
just a taste of what is in store for
Syllabus “A” in the near future.
Bigger and better exams is the forecast.

That land, sea and air maneuver
mentioned some time ago, is reported to be taking place today unless we are once again blitzed by
snow.

 

 

aD

<

and and Cosmopolitan tied for second place with 12% each. Other maga- |
zines having votes were American, Ladies’ Home Journal, Atlantic |
Monthly, Astonishing Stories, Time, and one person, eyes glistening like
a dope-field, said, “any Movie magazines I can get read.” ea

* * *

oy - Advice to the love-lorn:
Some men break your heart in two,
* “Some men- fawn and flatter,
ed Some 1 men never look at you;
: % “And ‘1 at cleans up the matter.
* * 6#*
tomy the time you swear you're his
Shivering gud sighing,
And he vows his passion is
oe undying—
Lely, sates a note of this:
~ One of you is lying.
kiss, by courtesy of Dorothy Parker
oe nd the Ubssey
t- > seet - 9% as
Huve You Skated ae the xe ena Yet, Using Your Councli Ticket?

Results are very good. 44% have attended the Arena, using their
Council ticket to get in, while the rest, 56%, have not done so. However,
a few out of the latter reported they would later on.

; a
|. =
Your Opinion On the Gazette Columns?

Most of the given opinions were on the Feature Page, the only other
one saying that the Editorial page was good. Neither the two columns
on the front page nor on the back page came in for particular mention,
either by invective or bouquet. The Feature page got the comments (and
how), but we will tone them down to a reading level. 50% quizzed gave
definite opinions for or against, 56% saying they were good, and the rest
saying, “STINK”, and uncomplimentary terms. A few, pained with the
sudden blitz that Aunt Effie has caused, stood with hurt faces, and swallowed tears while answering, ‘Don’t know where they get the information”.

Other comments, chosen at random: “Most are pretty punk, especially Rufus Rayne.” (This was the only kick against Rufus). “Aunt
Effie’s the best,” “Aunt Effie stinks,” (one who got blitzed); “I’d rather
not say,” “Pretty brainy,” “Cut them out—especially the March of
Grime,” “All have their place—some people might want to read them,”
- | and “everybody reads the third page, the best in the Gazette.”

an

*

4 5 “Gann. and Acadia are both raising two hundred dollars for the
e ts of Mount oe to aid in

*

  

ir “It would fin a fine a
and | the ‘numerous-exMounties
would form an adan. a to

dents has appropriately selected a|

In conjunc- |
tion with two faculty members— |

a scholar, a sportsman and a gen-|

which can be bestowed upon a stu-_
dent at Dalhousie University by his |

Reader’s Digest leads the field with 31% of the votes; Life Magazine |

HALIFAX, N.S., FEBRUARY 6, 1942

THE SCHOLAR

’

 

MARY BOSWELL

ss =

Life Officers
Elected By

 

 

A large number attended an important meeting of the graduating
class on Tuesday at noon to elect
life officers and make plans for Con| vocation week, The entire slate of
| officers for the past year was re| turned intact to form the life executive of the Class of ’42.

 

| Hill.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13th

ee nee ar et
> +

HH Fares Newsher

« »>

$3.50 couple

No. 15

 

 

‘Cuff Notes Motee: Feunn. rom Two Pile: Poodle ox.
Canadian Capitol Dances Scheduled

By ALAN HARVEY

|

}
}

OTTAWA, Feb. 4—(CUP)—This |
was “Wheat Week” on Parliament

| at the wek-end rolled two special
|trains bringing more than 400 rep-| day will prove to -be the happiest,

:

| resentatives
| armed with a “Petition of Rights”

for Western agriculture. Their main) Pyom.
plank was a request for an increase} miss it.

in the price of wheat from 70 cents

| to $1 a bushel, basis No. 1 Northern

 

| education.

at Fort William, Ont., and Van
couver.,

we
=

Schooling Is Big Worry.
One of their major concerns
Farm income
prairies, they contend, is not high |
| enough to enable the Western Prov
/inees to provide adequate schooling, |
especially in the lower grades.

Besides the problem of financing |

the schools, the prairie farmer has | downbeat

| difficulty raisin genough money to

'send ihs sons and daughters ot uni- |

Senior Class) versity.

“How do you suppose,” one dele
| gate asked, “we can afford to send

‘our children to college when farm
| conditions are at the present level?”

| A. S. Forsyth was chosen Presi- |

|dent; Kay Hicks, Vice-President; |
Frances Webster, Secretary, and |
John Tasman, Treasurer. All posi
_tions were, however, contested. With
| the Life President in the chair, the

cerning Convocation week. It was
| decided to hold a class banquet in
| place of the trip to Hubbards, and
also to attempt to have a class pic| nic.

| A committee of four was elected
to take care of the Convocation Ball.
Those chosen were: Ed Morris, John
Fraser, Louise Bishop and Penny
'Patchell. Besides this, a general
| committee was chosen’ to head the
Convocation functions: Ted -Rettie
'was elected as chairman of the Banpee Committee; Kissy Cameron to
promote the Shirreff Hall formal;
| Bunny Morse to take charge of the
‘| Tea Dance; Bob Wilcox for the informal gym dance, and Andy Dunn
as general committeeman.

Ted Rettie was elected Class Valedictorian, with Kay Hicks, Class
Prophet, and John Tasman, Class
Historian. The Historian and Prophet are to prepare articles for the
Year Book, while the Valedictory
Address is to be delivered at the
Class Banquet.

A few moments were taken for
discussion of a suitable class gift,
although no definite action was decided upon. Among the gifts suggested was that of a memorial to
Prof. Nickerson and that of a gift
desk lamps to the Studley Library.
It was decided, however, to leave
this matter open for future discus‘sion.

 

 

| Board now,

J. G. Diefernbaker, Conservative
member of the House of Commons
for Lake Centre, told the Commons
the delegates were coming to protest against conditions of “economic
slavery”’.

*

BIG BUSINESS
Launched April 7, 1940, to admir.
ister what has become “Canada’s
“Biggest Big Business”, the Muni
i : S t, ruled
| meeting proceeded with plans con- | tions snd Supply Deparment >

over by Munitions Minister Howe,
now employs more than 2,000, com
| pared with its original staff of 300.

The only faster-growing branch of
the government service is the Wartime Prices and Trade Board. Even
its publicity men won’t estimate how
many are drawing salaries from the
so fast has it expanded,

The Munitions Department handles
more than 500 cables and telegrams
every day, sends out and receives
more than 5,000 letters. Number of
new files, exclusive of secret and
confidential dockets, increased by
nearly 25,000 between July and September last year.

*

x €

OTTAWA ODDITIES

The Deputy Minister of Fisheries
in the Federal Cabinet—no fooling
—is Dr. D. B. Finn.

They’re rationing sugar in Canada
and yet the best authorities say
there “hasn’t been a ripple on the
surface” as far as hoarding is concerned. The picture is a lot different in the United States.

Ottawa correspondents get some
strange requests. The British Library of Information, for instance,
wanted to know what size hat Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill usually wears. The Press Gallery had
the answer: It’s a 7%. Now all the
correspondents, warmed by the’ P.
M.’s charm, claim the same hat size.

Into Ottawa’s Union Station |
| say?

 

| Lord
is | Hight.
on the | even the lovely Frosh are planning

 

!

 

For This Month

JUNIOR PROM

ree the 13th — unlucky
Not at ail,

you
friends, for that

of Western pee mers luckiest, most eventful day of your

| life — IF you take in the Junior
But woe betide you if you
In that dire eventuality
| you will do well to avoid black cats,
stray ladders and all other dreadful
portents of evil

Forget all this: join the erowd
that will be converging upon the
Nelson Hotel. next Friday
Seniors, Juniors, Sophs and

|to dance away Friday, Feb. 13th,
and usher in St. Valentine’s day.
Join the mob gang, get hep to the
| jive, bounce me daddy to the solid
four. Naugler,will get you on the
and how!

All this boils down to the fact
that the Juniors are planning the
biggest and best Junior Prom of all
years for next Friday night. A competent committee has been set up
and has been working tirelessly to
guarantee that you will have the
best time of your life. And Seniors,
remember that you lucky fellows
get in gratis. Chaperones for the
occasion will be Professor and Mrs.
Bennett and Professor
Bell.

 

SHE’S COMIN!

Not Around The
Mountain Either

NO SIREE!!
Straight to Dal Housie!

 

Men, beware—Sadie is on the war
path or may be ’tis Daisy Mae or
Mammy Yokum! What difference
does it make as. long as you get
a bit to the shindig in the gymnasium, scheduled for the night of
February the twenty-fourth.

"Tis rumored that the gals are
Saving every penny to take their
favorite ‘Li’] Abner” out this night
of all nights. Remember, the gals
do all the honors: they buy the ticket ($1.25 incidentally), send the
vegetable corsage, hire the taxi—do
the calling for and yes, siree, kiss
the man (?) good night. Hot dog!
Sure is goin’ to be fun!! We can
hardly wait .....

RRC TES AS SS Se

POTENT PARAGRAPH
The’ rubber’ shortage was never
more sharply underscored than this:
“How long the motorists of
Canada will be able to stay on
the road will depend entirely on
themselves and on tire dealers
and service stations.”
. So says Supplies Controller Alan
H. Williamson of the Munitions Department.

Cer eT:
as 8 =
wey ce

and Mrs.
2
ro

 

 
     
  

 

ao” ey

Ys 7 Ps |

5 ere

oy ith ee aes

a.
ee

dA ki N "Phe Ores: oC 1D .
_ -—s the author; it cannot be
¥ cc . 7 .

 

Gill or Toronto.

 

of civilization.

  

       
      

—“The Oldest College Paper in America”
{in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
assumed that they represent the opinion of

 
 

    

vleWs expr

the Student Body

S Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St., Halifax

GAZETTE STAFF

Bditor: JOHN W. GRANT - - - : B-8576
Peatures Editor: JOHN TASMAN ~ - - : S-2597
News Editor: A. S. FORSYT see Pama gi.) ae RBS
Sports Editor: CCLIN H. SM Ara Ye Nee BOBS
Literary Editor: LOUISE BISHOP - - - - - B-9746
Proof Editer: DA COLDWELL - - : - - B-8576
duaison Editor: WALLACE OGILVIE - - - - B-6568
4%rculation Manager: BOB McCLEAVE - - - - B-8576

us ; Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD - - B-0453
Ma Photographer: DON OLAND - - - - - _. B-9811

 

SADIE, GET YOUR GAZETTE
Pharos of last year in an article on the Gazette drew

attention to the large number of girls on the staff of the paper

and predicted that in future a still greater share of the work
d be taken by the coeds. Admittedly it did look last year
‘the fair sex was destined to run the undergraduate publi‘of the College by the Sea. Two girls) acted as joint

   
  
  

Editors, another handled the News and the Features, another

the Literary Column. Im addition to this array, the Business
Manager and Assistant Business Manager were both of the
female sex. Males were reduced to such unimportant jobs as
A gsiste it Editor and Sports Editor.
The trend of the times may indeed be towards female
management of such things as campus newspapers, but trends
work sometimes very slowly and this year any Thursday afternoon you can find a group of lonely-looking males making up
He freotte. ' Such columns as Coeds Only, and, of course, Aunt
e (7?) are within the province of the females, but only one
amber of the actual staff this year is from the ranks of
(granted that there are plenty of old women on the

 

hat we are trying to get at (in case you are wondering
by this time) that it is almost time the coeds were turning
out an issue of the Gazette, and we are throwing the field open
for anyone who would like to offer to do something about it.
Last year the Coed Issue seemed in a way almost superfluous,
a male issue being perhaps more to the point, but this year we
believe the girls really would like a chance to show their stuff,
and the male members of the staff have been persuaded to yield
up the privilege of authorship for one week. :

Time, or as the old Romans would have said in their unique
language, tempus, flies (fugit). If you wish to show your
ability before the literate public of Dalhousie, get in touch with
the Editor at once.

TOWARDS A WORLD’S OUTLOOK

Nova Scotia is far enough away from the great centres of
the world to acquire a flavour of provincialism, not isolated
enough to realize its isolation. In this general attitude Dal
_ housians share. We realize our proximity to the world conflict,

but we do not yet realize the proximity of the world conflict to
ourselves. We are conscious that the war may yet come to
Nova Seotia. What we do not realize is that it is already here,
that battles in Europe and the Far East have not merely a,

' potential effect in that a great defeat abroad would expose us

to danger, but actually affect us now by determining what sore
of world we are to live in.
What is true of our attitude to everything is especially

_ true of our attitude towards other universities and other stu
dents. We have a very natural sense of kinship with other

aritime universities. Our interest in other Canadian universities is much smaller except in the case of a few students who
‘may intend to go on to medical or engineering courses at McJust how negligible this interest is can be
seen when a national conference is convened. Interest in
foreign universities and foreign students is practically nonexistent—a sense of responsibility almost entirely so. It would
be unfair to the average student to say that he was not interested in the well-being of, say, the Chinese student, but it
would not be unfair to say that he doesn’t consider it part of

his duty to give any help. Relief to Chinese students has been
Hastie byt ak as a favor done to China, not as a common

_ act. of humanity.

It is not our intention to try to rouse any sense of obligaion for something which is not already regarded as such.
hat we would like to point out is that aid for foreign students

is a matter of sheer common sense. Today we do not complain
about the moral drawbacks of Mr. Chamberlain’s foreign policy.
We do feel very keenly, however, that this policy resulted in
many needless surrenders to the Axis which left us in a vastly
weakened position. An appeasement policy on the part of university students will have exactly the same effect. Students

ignorance and prejudice. That is close enough to being a losing
struggle that we cannot afford to allow the universities to be
weakened more than they are now. The war against education
is being conducted quite consicously by the dictatorships. Free
thought was suppressed in German colleges in the early years
of the Nazi regime. More recent years have seen the closing
of all universities in Poland and Czechoslovakia and the virtual
suspension of academic life in Belgium. Japanese bombers have
attempted unsuccessfully to destroy university life in China,
although they have destroyed most of the buildings. The almost miraculous survival of the Chinese universities has indeed,
played a great part in the revival in the national life of that
country. oN 3

At this time the most effective way in which we can
support the cause of enlightment is by helping students to
study, in no matter what part of the world they may be. Many
of these students may not be in complete agreement with us
politically, but no really educated man is likely to be an enemy
Such help as we can give needy students
such organizations as The International Students’
rvice may prove to be not merely an act of charity, but also
measure of defence against Fascist ideas.

oa

  

throughout the world are engaged in a monstrous war against

Eee

2 = . . te ei aan Tcodk aie heal
UP rolls oe SP eee a aye a deb ft as TISTR
te! Ae A ede a te rf) - ater |. | i i. A : _ ee a n=

ae eee ee Viet ey eee Pt oe a eee
. Fal ‘ Paes 9 ¥en D - ‘ee
ql ‘ i vk ¥ 4 “a. oe tee iy oF ead! Rs de’ > 94, Sea fis ¥ 1h ee
= oa” ae OA ON Pamela | eo eke ee, igs ieee Ye i ed ee ge fl ie ARLE EE Po TRS ee j t ad
o “= - “ ie ook © 5 — a3 :
rl iis ao ad — y = oy = =F . = : :
- - Siicie 2 “i . 7 ent a RE te ss =o wm a Gs a : aay oy Cette a ; . ‘ 3 a
’ ie 4 - be 4
*T iin eee ed : . . 7.
, ‘
"1 a . 4, iit ds ad SS - e - f oe lin
4 Aes > ve , he ~ : e ‘ A.
ie, 7 ¥y ah >t : — > . ,
ee —_ : A Shae uA + ey Neo - f : an * 7 NF:
S. i e * ; * Y x “A a i
Sky be tm ae SO ,F yi ‘4 A oo . : ,
3 aah ‘he, Ne - 7f4 ~~ Se a ; —.,
Se fe i e rx Cs Jah 4 : / ~ — 4 « f
wd r Ey if Sie a “f = ; F . >» : > P
ae 4 2 Ae * ‘ ~
. ‘ i j i ; ats é, . a
. ; ss ; We j . ~
an i ) y) y Ez 4
¥ :
7 . *
&
’
Va »

 

  

= GAZETTE

Po tees hee wt

Snowstorm

A shrill whistle pierced the .air.
“Hi there Rover—come here. Where
did that dog go?” muttered Jane
as she picked up her skates preporatory to leading the pond. Suddenly a black collie catapulted into her
from nowhere, almost knocking her
off her feet. “Take jit easy, boy”,
she gasped as she slid across the ice
trying to keep her balance. “Shut
up! everyone can guess from your
barking that we’re going home”,
she said resignedly. Jane waded
through knee-deep snow and elimbed
the railroad bank while the collie
bounded around her in circles. She
clambered laboriously over the wire
fence on the other side of the railroad bank while Rover squeezed under it through a space that looked
large enough for a rabbit.

“Of course Uncle Jim and Tobias
despise him for a coward’, she
thought. “Even if he does run away
from that old Jones dog, and if he
hides whenever a gun goes off, he
does adore me so—anyway I don’t
blame him for being afraid! But he
does bark so much—and Aunt Mary
gets mad when he wakes me up in
the morning and puts his muddy
paws on the pillow case.”

While Jane was drying the dishes
after dinner and Rover was lying
underfoot contentedly she said to
Aunt Mary, “I think I’ll go over to
see Mrs. Grant this afternoon. It
might be fun to snowshoe over.”
“That’s a lovely idea, dear,” said
Aunt. Mary brightly. Jane was her
sister’s child from the city. After
a long illness the doctor had recommended a convalescence in the
country. It was not her fault that
the only family in the district with
young people Jane’s age had moved
away, but the child was having a
rather lonely time of it,

Later, after an exhilarating trip
on snowshoes enlivened by several
tumbles, Jane arrived at Mrs.
Grant’s. There she sipped hot tea
and shared a doughnut with Rover
while they discussed Mrs. Grant's
children and the Village news. The
most exciting topic was about the
man from back country who had
disappeared during the last blizzard,
and for whom his neighbors were
still searching. “Oh my! It’e beginning to snow. I guess I had better
leave now.” After Mrs. Grant’s farewells accompanied by frenzieid barking from Rover she set off.

The snow was falling thickly in
large flakes. A freakish wind whirled the snow in concentric circles.
Jane decided to take a short cut to
escape the driving wind. Before her
the river flowed like moving granite
between banks outlined in rough
blocks of ice, seemingly coming from
misty blue hills obscured by leaden
sky. The slim white birch with its
delicate tracery etched against the
greyish black water made Jane ache
with the desire to paint it. On her
right stretched the reddish purple
of birch bushes merging at length
with green of spruce and hemlock.
She turned abruptly into the woods.
Here the wind stirred the tops of the
trees to sweet music, and an occasional snowflake drifted down easily.
Rover chased rabbit trails dashing
écstatically back to Jane every few
minutes.

Jane was beginning to feel tired,
but she consoled herself with the
thought that She would soon be
home. She emerged from the woods
into the hill pasture. Then her left
foot caught on a stump and she fell
headlong into the snow.

When she regained consciousness
Rover was licking her face. Feeling
rather sick and cold she tried to get
up, but excruciating pain brought
tears to her eyes. Her left foot was
twisted awkwardly in her snowshoe.
It was impossible to stand. Aunt
Mary would not know where she
was. Home was so close. Why had
she taken the shert cut? But perhaps if Rover came home without
her! ‘Home, Rover, Home! Go
home Rover! Home!” Rover ran
around in wild circles—then sniffed
her, yelped, and at last ran down
the lane towards: the farmhouse

stopping now and then to see if she

were coming and barking encourage
He walked along the lone and

and the fence.

she said to the hired man.

you Jim?” she said worriedly. There
was scraping at the back door.
When Tobias opened the door a very
wet black collie bounded in. Rover
rushed around barking. He seemed
to wont to go out again. He seized
Jim’s sleeve in his teeth. ‘“What’s
the matter with the dog?” It’s
queer he came home without Jane
—he never leaves her. You don’t
suppose anything has happened,
Jim?” “Of course not, Mary. You
just run over to Mrs. Jones, and
‘phone Mrs. Grant. Tell her to keep
Jane there till I call for her after
milking. I’m going over to the barn
for a minute.”

Rover barking loudly ran towards
the lane behind the barn coming
back to see if Jim followed him.
“Wonder what he wants? Maybe
I’d better follow him.” The full
force of the storm soon had Jim
gasping. He struggled through
drifts waist deep where he had traversed a well worn path two hours
ago. The snow blotted out the fences
on each side, and the barking dog
before him. Beyond the lane he
stopped. He threw the beam from
his flashlight around him in a vain
attempt to see. Rover had disappeared. “What a fool I am, letting
that dratted dog bring me on a wild
goose chase,” he muttered. Then he
heard a faint call and a sharp bark.
A minute later he was bending over
another drift of snow which was
Jane, who was emerging from the
snow under Rover’s frantic digging.
Jim lifted her. He was staggering
under the weight, and wondering if
he could ever get home when more
barking from Rover heralded the approach of Tobias with a lantern.
Mary had sent him after she learned from Mrs. Grant Jane had started home.

Several hours later, after the doctor had set her ankle, Jane was
resting comfortably in bed. A cold
nose prodding her back roused her.
|*Oh Rover, you darling!” she ex| claimed patting the rough wet head.
This time Aunt Mary had let him

| in. Fr. 26

Ss ssesssssse-seesssesessessseseeeee
SS

 

| pores ad

| PEACE WITHIN HIMSELF

sombre shore

And gazed far o’er the murmuring
waters cold,

His fear was gripping him in silent
hold.

Unconsciously his mind was groping for

An outlet, that would to his heart
restore

A peace and courage that he might
uphold.

Could he renounce his fear and
then be bold

If he could close his ears and stop
the roar

That made him tremble in the pale
moonlight ?

And then it seemed as if he heard
a beli—

It held a message for his frightened
heart,

He turned with shoudlers straight
and head upright,

Who cares about the tales the
world will tell!

Within himself was peace ne’er to
depart.

M. H.

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

564%, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

Four Expert Barbers to Improve
Your Appearance and no
long waiting at
JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP
41 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

ment. The snow swirled down more
heavily than ever, blotting out Rover
It was so quiet.
Jane’s lashes droped over her eyes.

Aunt Mary was flying around the
warm kitchen getting supper. “It’s
snowing awful hard, isn’t it, Tobias”
“You
don’t think Jane will start home do

 

| Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

 

 

 

*
HALIFAX Nova Scotia
| ASK FOR | Headquarters for Students
DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES

46 Granville St.

CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating .. . It Peps You Up!

Birks and Gifts

These two words are a

“natural’’!

at DAL CANTEEN

 

 
  
 
      
     

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

CAPORAL

CIGARETTES

 

  

Halifax, N. S.

FARMERS’

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

Sixty years

of serving Canadians

have brought a wealth

of experience to Can
ada’s national jewellers.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED

Registered

American Gem Society

Jewellers,

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

Dalhousie Gniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.

Includes ail the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mathematics,

Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing,
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.

Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarshi
the courses,

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year,

The Professional Faculties
in

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.

Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

February 6, 1942

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED

0)
DRUGGISTS

Requireménts

CO

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

WELCOME
TO

DALHOUSIE
O

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

leading to degrees

ps, on entrance and through

(r

 

 

 

 
   

 

MENTOR

ie = . ‘One of the most Inevitable Courses which the University expects
: every student to take is Mathematics 1. It may be said without hesitaSl ‘tion that this is possibly one of the most Invaluable and Futile of any of

  

the Inevitable courses offered. Too much cannot be said in praise of
ie ‘Mathematics 1., for it is one of the few Utilitarian Courses offered by
the University, and, if approached with the proper spirit, should wield
a Great Influence in later endeavours. All students should become aware
of this, for it seems deplorable that so many go into the world, failing
to appreciate the full significance of such startling Mathematical Con4 ceptions as the Binomial Theorem, The Slope of a Line, and Spherical
9 - Trigonometry, which makes it easy to get from place to place, star to
af ,
star, and to find out what time it is in Ecum Secum at High Noon.
* _ The first Startling Conception found in Mathematics 1. is that there
_. is an easy way of doing things you were taught to do the hard way in

_ your Preliminary Education. This easy way is called Logarithms, which

+ make all mathematics a comparatively simple matter of adding, sub
@ _ tracting, multiplying, etc., and all Students should learn to apply this to

everyday problems as soon as possible.
Logarithms were invented by 4 man by the name of Descartes; who
_ thought, therefore he was. It all came about in the following manner.
‘~~ He was tottering on the brink of Infinity one morning, when suddenly
he saw a Geometric Procession, which, in his mathematical mind, he
immediately multiplied by 10. To his surprise, they all cancelled out,
in  Jeaving him with nothing, from which he immediately derived the nowi famous Logarithms, to be found in the back of all good Chemistry Books.
_-“iffieuse of Logarithms is quite simple, if you know anything about
~~ using them, and can also perform the simple Mathematical operations
: | of adding and subtracting, without getting your signs mixed up. To
multiply two numbers like 2 and 3, then, it is a mere matter of looking up
: the Log of 2, and putting the Log. of 3 below it, making sure you have
your Mantilla in the right place, and that your Orderly conforms to
regulations. By adding these two Logs together, it is possible, by looking
the result up in a table of Anti-logs to find the answer immediately.
Where formerly you were content to use the tables on the back of any
good five-cent seribbler, Mathematics 1. enables you to perform the
operation Scientifically and with great accuracy. 2 x 3, then, by logs,
equals 5.9999, much to your surprise.

; Dear to the heart of every Mathematician are Processions, which are
a series of numbers, generally beginning with 0 and ending with infinity,
with a great deal in between, which stream on and on, unrelentingly.
From these Processions a great many things have been Derived, Integrated, Transmigrated, Ossified, Ostracised and operated on in other
Mathematical ways, and bring us to he Inevitable Conclusion, that Mathematics can’t be gotten away from. These Processions are responsible
for a number of things, amongst which are the Binomial Theorem. This
; was ixivented in a moment of sheer inspiration by an Early Greek, whose
> name has since been forgotten, but is memorable as proof that the
B Greeks were wonderful people, since nobody knew any Mathematics then,

ee and it all had to be invented out of a clear sky.
» this way, also were the early Greeks responsible for the invention

*#, of Geometry, which proves that a right-angled triangle is one in which
there is an angle of 90 degrees. Subsequent work, by Einstein and others,

leaves this somewhat open to doubt, but Mathematics 1 doesn’t concern

itself with such matters, accepting the Greek belief on sheer faith. The
; triangle has been given a great deal of Mathematical scrutiny, with the

ag result that it is now possible to tell how high things are, by leaning a
ladder against them, and measuring the angle the shadow makes. All
this is exposed by Mathematics 1, for the consolation of those who wish.
to measure the height of things. :

No one, then, who wishes to be designated as a Complete College
Man can afford to content himself with merely passing through Mathematics 1, without assuring himself of the many benefits to be derived from
this Inevitable and Instructive course, and assimilating a few of these.
a It is a real essential, in its way.

=

is
iy

 

 

Rs Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

ae Episode 13

Bel A’ Conversation with the Editor, or
A Conversation with Wilbur P.
Editor: Your name please, Wilbur.
Wilbur P. Fizzleque: I prefer to

remain anonymous,
Editor: Good. Having all the
other attributes of a b---you may | could it be unidentified.
-as well be nameless also. Editor: Silence! Where is SherW.P.F.: My parental antecedents | iff’s Haul?
are no concern of yours. W.P.F.: This is the first time
‘~~ Editor: But your presence here is. you've shown any interest in the
‘The telephone was invented for the | Place, which just shows how you
Pace purpose of doing business with just | Never miss the kettle until the pot
z such unsavoury persons as you. is black. I'll not restore a stone of
Tie Why must you pollute my. office? the building until I can assure its
Isn’t it enough for you to pollute | inmates...
my: beloved Gazoot?
. WPF: For two years I’ve been
fr the only worthwhile feature of your
ne nasty little dirt sheet and now you
use me only for filler. Allow me to
warn you that you and your pinko
friends will have a paper read only

fied body floating about in the harbor last week, which Derrick Cleaverhand mistook for the Dartmouth
ferry and sailed clear out to Chebuctooth Head on last week before
recognizing his error...

W.P.F.: If he recognized it how

 

* * os

At this point the discussion was
interrupted by Tank Farsight, who
arrived breathlessly to announce
that Sheriff’s Haul had been seen
careening around the belt line trolley, with female heads screaming

1 by yourselves unless you pay more from its windows and seventeen
ia attention to the higher things of| paunchy, bedest law students run» > life. ning behind while Vincent Deano

McDunald bicycled alongside ex
o Editor: I see what you mean.
; plaining the doctrine of hot pur
- Nothing could be higher than you.

a W.P.F.: Furthermore, now that

Major Hokum is on the Board of

*» Governors...

7 _.__-— «Editor: That reminds me, what,
___-yillain, have you done with Sheriff's

wo

 
    
    
  
 
  
 
  
 

Gaunt turned to cover Fizzleque
with suitable epithets, but Fizzleque
had disappeared, leaving only the
familiar green mist and dank aroma

eho Haul? while a delirious cackling sounded
hae |” W.PF.: Aha!... Ah!... aha. .| above the thud of the passing O Pee
ad sas abate: Chee as they chanted “You made

  

a4 ‘Editor: If this is another of your! me, Happy. I didn’ wanna do it, I
publicity stunts, like that unidenti- didn’ wanna ate. 3.”

  
  
   
    

help all you poor people with all your Heart Afflictions, but I must be
fair, and thus I cannot help the same people every week. Therefore, I
must ask Miss Jean Cam. not to pester me every week with these questions.
ing money to play the Juke-box at Roy’s.
my dear.
guiet.

has only just come to light.

us last term. Try being a female Cananova this term, and see how far
vou get.
pants on, as you will probably discover.

 

Who was the lonely boy at| Who is Aggie’s new “conquest?” ;
S-2908? Why were you wasting the |Is is Ralph, or just “My Imaginary Friday, Saturday, Monday
nickels Bobby, didn’t you have | Sweetheart”?
enough phone calls that night? Sse WILLIAM POWELL
ie ee If you want information about MYRNA LOY

Tuesday night certainly kept the
phone busy at the Hall.
trying to say “sweetness” and why?

mouStaches.

suit. With a scream of rage Editor |"

a eo mm

yr. =e a

=

e

°
Lr

ie 2
2 Se

    
 

    

or ee a°
me pag ae
4 Pt dhe ‘ iss
Die cant Se OE,

i r 7 ne
; Sy a
eS ee ee Ls

 

»

FT 2SQUARE

(The absence of this column in
the past few weeks has been due
to its late appearance at the Gazette Office. Feature writers are reminded that copy must be in Tuesday Noon, or is cannot be given
Priority.— Ed.) |

The Boilermakers-Med. Formal
has now passed into cold storage and
all that remains are the memories
of how hard Fred Russell tried to
convince the engineers he wasn’t
taking Jean; of Scouler’s decline and
fall; of Mussett—we’ve seen him
plastered before, but never papered; of one who almost froze his girl
friend trying to get her picture
when the flash refused 'to work; of
Wilcox and Wilson, who didn’t look
as bad as the rest of the soaks; and
Wiswell and the ‘game’ leg. It was
some party.

You’ve heard the one about the

Fe Re abbsent-minded professor, but Bill
We have a letter here, dated just after Christmas, which somehow! Hagen will top that—ask him about
It is from one Miss Bob W. and reads: THR telephone number!

“Dear Aunt Effie: Last term I hooked a sucker and this term I We heard that Johnny MacLean is
found another. But now I am in a play, and saw ‘Dooley’ M., who running competition to Bill Harris
doesn’t seem interested. What will I do?” on Kay—Whynott boys, why not?

My dear child, for a girl who doesn’t want to go steady, you amazed | Don’t be discouraged Sparky, Elaine
is just as nice.

You can’t blame Johnny Rogers
for taking Doris home, but why not
show up earlier, or don’t you skate
so well?

Here’s more good neighbor policy,
Bennett and Fowler sharing Ruth—
What happened Charlie, did Miss
Gordon walk out?

Don Burris has come to life—first
a dance and now he has persuaded
“Silent” MacHattie to appear social
we fie ly.

Why does “Lightening” Mac like
THAT record in the juke box—who
SS GL I. Li MS ; > C Players Theatre

  
 

 

 

, s

lear Uuntie Offie:

' ror eS °
In glancing over one of my companion columns, my dears, I
noticed that the suggestion was advanced that a Mr. Don Kirkpatrick
should consult me regarding some problem oppressing him. On consulting Mr. K. I was awarded by only blushes and a professed ignorance of the reference. I feel sorry for this poor boy, and would suggest that my fellow writer check on his sources of information in
future, as it would appear that someone was trying to embarrass an
innocent soul in a very underhand manner, which should not be permitted, even in a Grime column. I do not want my name connected

with such an obviously mean trick.
* *e *€

 

I have stated on numerous occasions my desire and willingness to

I shall answer but one inquiry this week, my dear—that of getHere is an infallible system,
Propose to sing, and you will receive any amount to keep you

es % 28 i

We have another letter from from a poor little thing in New Glasgow, who complains of neglect, even as Miss Cam. did last week.
This letter comes from a Miss Ina H., who describes herself as a
luscious blonde. She says she hasn’t heard from 2nd Lt. R. in two
days. Dear girl, have patience, as he is heeding a call to arms of
another sort here at college. When his war effort is through I’m
sure he will write.

If Mr. Me. isn’t impressed, there are plenty more around with

a ee ee

And so, dear chicks, I shall have to leave you for another week,
with the hope that I’ve helped you in your hour of stress. I welcome
communications on any matter, and can guarantee immediate results
of some sort or another, without exception. Threatening letters will
be disregarded, however.

| As Always,
Your sympathetic

could he be thinking of 7??
eco co

 

         
    
  
 

making 2 leaves a week stretch ask
Kissy Minimus.

Who was Me
The Phi Chi’s are complaining
that they have enough trouble
with their own boys without hayBill Hagen was one of the cast of | mg to keep an eye on the Phi
“Big Hearted Herbert”, but it is | Rho’s as well. How about that?
just his interest in some of the se ae
members that keeps him around. We haven’t heard from “Kissy” in
* & & a long time, and we never knew she.
Why the sudden rage for growing had a “brother”. Doesn’t she know
Could Gordon and Jack | there’s a fine for impersonating
both be disappointed in love? Bees
aE * %

Anita Reed’s belligerent nature
seems to get her places. The last
snowfight ended with an invitation .
e the Junior prom. What about it,

en,

The Phi Delt party on Monday or

  

“Shadow of The
Thin Man” _

*
Jeanette MacDonald
Brian Aherne

a

* % *

We were beginning to think that

* *« *

Grime Marches On.

m x #*

Why has the sudden interest in
Jack Ross cooled off, Dot. Could
it oe the army, or was the ice too
cold.

 

Pause...

‘Go.refreshed * ee ee
BN y \S

ps 7a ‘

   
       

  

For Throat Easy
Mildness — Smoke

Buckingham
Cigarettes

TRAOE-MARK REGISTERED

ii

Ce ate

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

hi shh d i 3c ta SS mM ea

  
 
    
    

et hee! + ia 2 +

 
 
 

Naugler’s
Orchestra

C

   

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032

  

x4 Femons Mapes Theives

Sat. - Mon. - Tues.
“ELLERY QUEEN AND

THE MURDER RING”
Plus

‘SING FOR YOUR SUPPER’

Wed. - Thurs. - Friday
“NORTH SEA PATROL”

an
“I COVER CHINATOWN”

ORPHEUS

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

"DEAD MAN’S SHOES”
“TRAIL BLAZERS”

ie
Monday, Tuesday, Wednes.

“TARZAN’S SECRET
TREASURE”
and Shorts
“SIX-GUN COLD”

 

 

OXFORD

Friday and Saturday
‘YOU’LL NEVER GET RICH’
“PRISONER ON
DEVIL’S ISLAND”

‘ad
Monday and Tuesday
“LADY BE GOOD”
“RAGS TO RICHES”
&
Wednesday and Thursday
“DR. KILDARE’S

WEDDING DAY”
“COUNTRY FAIR”

bag

The New

CASINO

Starting Saturday, Feb. 7

*

Jack London’s

Mighties Adventure
Story

“North of The
Klondyke

BROD CRAWFORD
LON CHANEY
EVELYN CIMBERS

 

 

ih

— You sense in ice-cold “Coca-Cola” a thing that is
good—a pure, wholesome drink with the quality of
genuine goodness. ‘'Coca-Cola”’ delights your taste,
gratifies your thirst and leaves you happily refreshed.

 

 

 

  
  
   
  
     
    
 
   
  
    
  
   
 
   
  
   
  

 

  
ia 
A mihar ‘a é 7”
- ae os ieee J t i
ates 2. = . as
. < i _ = ie a)

 

With oDn Black announcing and

with Lieut. Bevil Piers as referee,
|a better than average crowd was
| well entertained.

Continuing their meteoric rise to
prominence, Dalhousie’s Senior
Basketball Team achieved their
third straight win. With clock-like
precision they advanced to a 24 to 8
lead in the first half. Although the
Navy rallied brililantly in the secend period, Al. MacLeod, “Yank”
Forsythe, and Mike Smith were the
merciless tigers that seemed to call
the tune.

Killam, Seeley and Radcliffe were

the sparkers for the Navy. “Russ”
Webber the “Red Horner” of the
league and chief worry of Coach
Ralston added a little flourish to
the game by securing his coveted
fourth foul with only one minute to
go.
_ Burnie’s men have been adhering
to strict training rules, and have
taken their basketball very serious
this year. We wonder whether the
sight of those hoops during C.O.T.C.
drills has done anything to promote
their interest? We were very glad
to see Dave Doig, Red, and Sol.
Greene turn to this game. We only
hope that they shall bring more supporters to the Tiger’s: next game.

The league standing to date:

ae Sa

  
     

— — “SS — = “SS — — — ~ “SS “~—S ~~ = =

SPORT Shots

By COLIN SMITH

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
 

     

“Wild Spirit which art moving everywhere
Destroyer and Preserver, hear O hear!”

_ Let us consider the place of athletics in wartime. There
1s no doubt that a “Closed for the Duration” sign was placed on
the cricket fields of Eton, during a former victorious conflict
of ours. That such a sign is non-existent in our gymnasium
today is, however, no accident,

Our leaders, both academic and military, have been able
to meet this national emergency with apparent calm. The
coolness that follows careful deliberation and judicious cooperation. It is difficult to imagine a Wellington consulting
certain masters at Oxford, before his invasion of the Continent. Yet today we feel proud to admit such collaboration
exists between our leaders. For the first time in centuries it
marks a sudden rise in man’s intelligence. (And most assuredly this war will be won by the most intelligent combatant).
For the first time we now feel confident that victory based on
such principles most deservedly shall be ours. Forever the
Nietzchian Superman idea will be obliterated by Democracy’s
Scholar-Warriors.

The spirit which is manifest today in our games shall be
strengthened and encouraged in actual warfare. I am certain
that our athletics imbue all participents with a spirit akin to
that of Jimmy Malcolm’s. It is because of this that I heartily
recommend sports in wartime. They above all other activities

this opportune moment we
at pleasure in presenting
ular and most versatile
‘ditor — Allen, J. MacLeod,
jown as “Moose”.
ough his home-town is SydC. B., he has travelled far,
ning as he went an Arts degree
our sister college, Mt. A. There
Was prominent in many sports
es. He climaxed these by
their senior team to many
tory in his last year there.
e talents he kindly offered us.

1g So he has been largely re- W L_ ppc} teach us to “Play up, play up and play the game.”

ible for the many victories;DAL ............. 8 0). 1000 We would be wise if we re-read Mr. Webster MacDonald’s

usie has obtained in the field NSM hee ecee'y. 3 1 2  .333 | letter which was submitted to this page a fortnight ago.
asketball. Air Woree... 5.220. 1 2 ~ .3333 For the first time a clear, and concise picture, showing the
Moose” has always been a strong] Acadia ........... 1 2  .333 | relationships between the Students’ Council and the D.A.A.C.

porter of interfaculty sport—

ey, football).. He played senior
thall for us in ’41 and 42.

re could be no reason for us

-his ability as an editor,

are certain that his very

_ following on both campuses

was given. Any would-be-manager or assistant manager
would do well to guard this letter with his very life!

An interesting, but poorly attended, meeting of the
1.A.A.C. management Committee was held at the home of
Mr. Murray Rankin, last Sunday afternoon. President Bob
Blois presented the financial standing of the Club in a-very
capable manner. Free meals for the basketballers; and the
excessive price.of Ping Pong balls (when compared to Badminton Birds) presented the only two obvious difficulties. As
usual, “Red” Payne was there’ with his Turkish cigarettes and
his hearty laugh. Don Kirkpatrick, still groaning over the
C.0.T.C. exam paper, dropped in to tell us that he had a date
with the Drama Club. (10 to 1 he never got there!)

_Do the effects of the A.T.C, hurt the timid Freshman Class
or is it Sherriff Hall? For the first time in years they are
going to pass up the chance to floor an Interfaculty Basketball
Team?

Len Mitchel informs us that interfaculty hockey is an impossibility due to wartime conditions in “an Eastern Canadian
Port’. However, we hope that all students will support the

active sports, and, if necessary, will revive the Bowling League
of former days. =

Hockey At
Dalhousie

The history and the activity of
this sport has been identical for the

es one well aware of his| Past ten years. Every student
ity in that field. is aware that there is such a
: team, but 99.9% never saw their
team in action. Their knowledge of
hockey was (and is) confined to information gained from the Sport
Page of the “Gazette”.

The Dalhousie team of 1942 is,
strange as it seems, the strongest
one which has been assembled in the
past decade. Once our boys hit
their stride they should be able to
hold their own with an squad in the
city, exclusive of the Navy Seniors.
The. other teams in the Service
League: St. Mary’s and the Navy

rae Stokers have not slipped since last
dent that he shall honour the year, and we are certain that a real
1 2 of his country and his college.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   

vement was climaxed by his
essful participation in the famed
ith Shield Debates”, where none |
2 most able are permitted to
% many. other sgrious-minded
es of his day, he plans to
army and carry the fight to
al azi-gang”’. hs
No matter what responsibilities
t be his, whether at home or
ad, we feel justly proud and

 

Ping Pong dee ete (Based on the
| greatest good to the
We are all very sorry to hear that | greatest number” perhaps these day
the promised lighting-system will | dreams do not sound so ridiculous!)
not be installed. While the few but Dalhousie has been the guest of
mighty basketballers are literally | the Waegwoltic Tennis Club on more
eating up our little heeded D.A.A.C.| than one occasion this term. Their |funds, the manager of this sport is) warm welcome, together with the
told emphatically that he can have | very kind attention of Prof. Mercer,
no more than a paltry thirty dollars | has indeed stimulated college spirit.
with which to finance: lights, awards | A ladder tournament is well unand other incidentals. What will| derway. We are informed that it

battle will take place between these
Ben fi three teams.
' C Let’s look at the personnel on aes
LIMAX

teams In goal we have Ken MacCLUB LEAGUE

Kinnon who has played the last two
eae he iy me seasons with the Maritime College
: Tuesday evening displayed re
table skill, when “Golds” and

Champs (St. F.X.) He is rivalled
ee ot by Hennigar, who played for Acadia
cks” clashed for top place in

ee a last year. Our defense trio formed
irst Club League of the season,

at. of: Webber, MacIntosh and Webbie

sketball. MacDonald, is as strong as any in

quarter brought forth re-|the league.

vigor and greater determina-| ‘The forward linés are made

he “Blacks” fighting tooth and up of: Marty MacDonald, Gordie
Wilson, and Bill Fraser, probably

to uphold their previous victhe fastest line in the league. Once

 

they tell him when he demands | shall decide who is to be seeded in
“Free Meals” for the fifty odd play-| the Spring Tournament which will
ers when they march to the tables! be held early-in March.

  

s, the “Golds” barging through

THE
ew and greater honor, until the| they start to click rival goallies will CUT FLOWERS, etc.
st was a losing battle for| have their troubles. Arky Vaughan, The RETIONS YE ISH €O. from
“Blacks”, the “Golds” always|Gerald Lantz and Jim MacKelvie
WiMieweebh te gass: andl form’ a very, strong second’ line.|| FSH FISH SPECIALISTS THE FLOWER SHOP

HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA
Lecanto

Doig, Blois, and Wiswell have been B-7133
forced to act as reserves so you can
well imagine the power this team
has.

Coach Ralston takes his team to
the Arena every week for workouts.
It is expected that winning results

will be obtained.

FLASH: Dal Hockey Team suffers
first defeat to St. Mary’s, 5-2.

FLASH: Badminton Tournament for
the girls is urged to start soon!
This is to avoid conflicting with
exams as has previously been the
case. We cannot draw up the games
until more have signed the posted
lists. :

FLASH: We wish to refer you to
the sugested challenge from the boys
for a basketball game. Get in a
hudle girls, and talk it over. Show
them that their false modesty as
displayed in that article last week
isn’t as false as they hope it is,
How about some Saturday from 12
to 1? ! ust

the ball to their forward line
tt MacKenzie or Xenia Reid
it skillfully into the basket.
Morrison, ‘taking place as
and again as forward, show
reat team work for the “Golds”.
ever 2 dull moment entered the
e. "Basket after basket bolsterthe spirits of the “Golds” and
zed the “Blacks” on to even
er co-operation and determinawith Doshie Stairs exhibiting
ptional work of guarding the inble “Gold” forwards, but Dot

 

 

ae 02,
ete ihe

iz. | Tay

 

Going to the Prom?

olds” following closely behind.

! sday night’s exceptional game Buy your Evening

Wraps 1/3 off regular
price from

the “Golds” ahead, but only by
‘y lean margin, in total num
goals. Both the “Golds” and
1 lac ks” have won an equal

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

et

 

Sames.

 

THOMAS. WALLACE Maritime Furriers
4 SONS AND DAUGHTERS
Er OME 0-8 SIGHT SPECIALISTS HALIFAX, N. S.
ts Gained ....10 10 4 Y.M.C. A. Building — Halifax |||
‘oals Scored 99° 100 “59. |] _ Phone B-6881 = | 3 |
oe - MEN) ce ea

 

 

" ae
he

ye ren eas ee
UF 4 iets ‘ fe ne
ita

pti

rata? whe Lt tes. > — eae r) ad
fs 1 eo rm - a Ag ay - , oe is aed " i Jia P ry U 5 S A 3 4 i Pon r i
we ae | Pee “3 CP ato = ey Ps ey gy soe ree ae Wer Bern " t 7
bea it ie *e, Seat i’ : ’ r bei | 4 a as eh Pala? i nA Ef a ie ae 942 a p
vi a rei i 4 = ety ak * ay 4 * ‘uary t LA 194 > ate ead
z x ‘ond ; ¥ 7 9 eer

Fe

   

DALHOUSIANS: oa
for your ,

TOILET ARTICLES
MEDICINES
PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES
KODAKS
CIGARS

YOU SHOULD PATRONIZE

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

— at —

490 BARRINGTON STREET
LORD NELSON HOTEL

   
   
  
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

EATON’

a ee Men's
OXFORDS

EATON Price, pair

8.00

OOTWEAR that is the
choice of many men! .

(Sinkdale

 

Birkdales are made of selected leathers and offer a choice
of styles that both men and
young men will like. .. Plan
to see the “Birkdale” range
when you visit the store—
choose a fine pair of shoes
at a reasonable price!

EATON’S
Shoe Department
—Second Floor

LIMITED

 

 
