    
  
 
 
 

   

 

_ The publicity-wise in Canadian
eolleges have been doing a darn
+ good job lately publicizing their
ss -war efforts and themselves generally. McGill was the subject of carry

| On Canada (C. B. C. Sun. eve.) The
staff of the Manitoban is carrying on
discussions on current events over

a local station and Alberta has a

station of her own.

 

Medical students at Toronto have
circulated a petition that the Dominion Government set up a fund to

help those meds who find themsel, ves unable to carry on due to shortened holiday earning periods.

_ petition has received 100% support.

 

Another idea from McGill.

corsages have been banned from the

> Junior Prom. The. money is to go

for war work. U. B. C. and some

western colleges have substituted

small tags for corsages indicating
contribution to war funds.

 

v | On the Lighter Side:

 

Ni apse) Pe ‘
ee oaey tse.

=
|

 

Memoriam. .

 

DUNCAN J. CHISHOLM, B.A.
Law, °42

With the news on Sunday morning last of the sudden passing of
Duncan Chisholm, this year’s Graduating Class in Law lost one of its
most scholarly, one of its finest, and
one of its most respected members.

Though of a quiet and reserved
nature, in his three years with us,

i .* >. farts
or eee 2 ae
Lye eae ie Ty
, ae pO
. y ; ‘ 7 4 4

 

HALIFAX, N. S., DECEMBER 5, 1941

Dal Debaters Bow
To Saint Mary’s

St. Mary’s debaters triumphed
over Dalhousie last Friday evening
in the first of the year’s intercollegiate debates. The winning team
was captained by William Dalton,
assisted by Philip Vaughan. Dal
was upheld by James Stevens and
Howard Gordon. In an interesting
and spirited debate, the St. Mary’s
team successfully upheld the negative of the resolution “that Canada
should conscript wealth in the presnet crisis.” They put forward the
argument that it was impractical,
morally wrong, materially wrong
and in the end, impossible of achievement. They maintained that
the present voluntary saving and
borrowing system had proved adequate ot the needs of the country.

The Studley team maintained that
the conscription of wealth was the
most efficient means of mobilizing
the country for war. If war were
not prosecuted by the most efficient
means possible and such extreme
measures were held off until tomorrow, Hitler would have seized his
opportunity and. would control; tomorrow would have then lost its
meaning. They pointed to the program of wealth conscription in

a

 

¥

 

 
 
    
  
 

 
 

| On behalf of the Dalhousie
| Student Body, the Gazette wishes

Early to bed,
Early to rise,
Then your gal steps out
With other guys.—Manitoban.

 

Lament of a Moth—
Dying of Old Age:

I’m a poor old moth,
And dying quick,
But not by that old
Candle trick.
I listened to mother,
And thereby learned,
How wise young moths
Avoid getting burned.
I never got singed,
In the wicked flame,
But found my life
Exceedingly tame.
—Notre Dame Scholastic.

 

Blame the apparent discrepancies
in this column during the past two
issues on Taz, feature editor. Jug
gling the slugs takes the kink out

of his spine he gets from “Grime”

key-hole peeking. 7
TO TAZ
Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
The rain on the roof,
Reminds me of you,
DRIP. DRIP
Bronx Cheer (Ed, IT)

 

One Jabex in the U. B. C. Ubussey
who- writes on the delights of O. T.
C. life and such was assaulted by a
eanvasser for their Blood Bank
drive. He was trapped. Asked for
a pint he screamed “A Pint! Why
I’ve got red corpuscles that have
never seen other red corpuscles!
I’ve got veins I’ve never used! I
have to give two week’s notice before I blush!”

 

“I want two tuna fish.”
“You'd better stick to a piano.”
—Gateway.

 

The Manitoban Engineers edition
(in bright orange) shows a slide
rule, a note book, some instruments

of the trade and SIX DOLLARS|
CASH. We don’t believe it. They

 

> .
~ «.

to express its deepest sympathies

 
    
     
 
  

Great Britain and attributed the
fall of France partly to the lack of
such measures.

St. Mary’s then countered that the
institution of such a scheme as proposed by the conscription party
would rob industry of incentive with
a resultant disruption of the industrial war effort.

Ted King, President of Sodales,
was the chairman of the meet.

“Dune” became truly one of the
“boys”, endearing himself deep in
the hearts of all of us here at the
Law School, who shall never perhaps fully appreciate our loss.

Having him beside us in class on
Thursday and then to learn, after
but two days’ illness, of his unexpected passing on Sunday morning,
his death at the early age of 28
years, brought shock and grief to
all who were privileged to have
known him.

In our minds, as his classmates,
we shall remember “Dunc” always
as a fine example of Christian manhood, a scholar of the first order,
and a kind and sympathetic friend
at all times.

WALTER GAUDET, or "42.

Co-operate in

 

I. S.S. Appeal Made

The following letter was sent to the Student Body of Dalhousie and presents an appeal by the International Student
Service on behalf of the thousands of university students in
Europe who have become refugees, internees or prisoners.
Last year Dalhousie contributed handsomely to this campaign.
It is hoped that the new year will again see this University
leading the way in contributions to the cause of keeping alive
the fires of learning in a land otherwise dark.

ee ee, &

Dear President: ;

One year has elapsed since we made an appeal to the university
constituencies on behalf of thousands of our fellow students in wartorn countries who have been uprooted and are now prisoners, internees or refugees. Hardship, both moral and material, is their
present lot; they can have little hope for a better future unless somebody comes and offers them a helping hand. This has been the aim of
International Student Service (I.S.S.) and the bodies with which it
has worked.

At the present moment the European staff is busy with the expansion of the work on behalf of British student prisoners in Germany.
Extensive courses are functioning; book lists are gathered and the
orders filled, for while the Red Cross looks after them well materially,
they lack specialized text books necessary for their studies. Study
courses prepared in England are being supplied and the prisoners will
actually be able to prepare some exams on the basis of these.

In Switzerland last year five “interne universities” were set up
with 652 students studying law, arts, economics, natural and technical
sciences, theology, commerce, architecture and medicine The project
has been an entire success and the students have completed their first
year, passing regular exams according to the program of the university
they are connected with.

The needs are tremendous and we in our privileged position have
a splendid opportunity to demonstrate our student solidarity in a
practical way. The committee has set as a Canadian objective $4,000,
and feels sure that, with the increase in givings last year, we may
count on attaining our objective. May we ask your support and cooperation ?

Sincerely,

CLYDE WOOLARD,

Acting Secretary.

 

‘Ae es - >.
eee No)”

Budgets Again
D.A. A.C. Topic

The topic of budgets once more
came to the fore at a lengthy meeting of the D.A.A.C., held on Tuesday at noon in the Gymnasium. All
budgets were drastically reduced in
an earnest attempt to bring the D.
A. A.C. expenses within the $2500
limit set by the Students’ Council.
Because, however, football had nearly been completed when the Council made it known that budgets
would have to be reduced, the football éxpenditures amount to far
more than would otherwise have
been allotted to that sport. As a
result, the meeting decided that it
would be unable to meet the limits
prescribed by the Council unless all
sports be very seriously curtailed
and perhaps one of the major sports
be entirely eliminated. Rather than
carry this drastic step into execution, a committee of three was appointed to approach the Council after Christmas in an endeavor to
clear up and possibly advance the
D.A.A.C. allotment. The committee
consists of Bob Blois, “Yank” Forsyth and Sandy MacDonald.

A suggestion was made that Acadia, St. Mary’s and the Navy be approached with a view to starting a
Canadian Football League next fall,
replacing the English Rugby League
now in operation. It was decided by
the meeting that letters be sent out
to these teams in order to ascertain
what sort of reaction the motion
would receive.

Judges were Dr. J. A. MacKeigan,
W. D. Outhit and Richard A.
Donohoe,

 

Sawbones and Survevors Unite
To Promote Monster Ball

Unique Effort

It was announced this week that the Engineers and the
Meds have joined hands and intend to establish a precedent at
Dal by holding a joint Ball after Christmas instead of the
usually separate Med and Boilermakers’ balls.
move came as the result of both faculties planning to hold their

This surprise

dances on the same date. The Medical Society, having been prevented
by adverse circumstances from holding their annual Med Ball in October as had been planned, set a tentative date for January 16. It then
became apparent that this would
conflict with the Boilermakers’ Ball,
which is traditionally held the second week in January. The Meds
then graciously offered to relinquish
both the date and the orchestra,
which had already been obtained, to
the Engineers. In an attempt to
straighten the matter out and give
everyone a fair deal, the Engineers
made the suggestion that both societies should co-operate and pro| duce one massive Ball through their
combined efforts. This the Medica]
| Society agreed to do, and the two
| dance committees immediately began to make joint plans for the af|fair which is set for the night of
January 16th.

| The committee comprises, for the

| Speinpering Society, President Bob
| Wilcox, Bob Mussett, Johnnie More,
| Blanchard Wiswell and Jack Mac'Kenzie; for the Medical Society,
| President Jack Woodbury, Don Graham, Joe MacDougall and Art Bird.

The dance is to be on the cabaret
style and there will be organ selections during the supper period. Extensive preparations are planned,
and a great deal of effort is being
made to give everyone a really enjoyable evening.

 

So let’s all go for a swell time
and make it an evening to remember, Date your girl friend or boy
| friend and be prepared for the best
.formal.of the year. Don’t forget
he place—the Nova Scotian; the
music—Jerry Naugler and the boys.
The Night of January 16, 1942.

 

 

 

 

  
   
 
   
 

No. 10

O.1.C. Blitz Hits County

(Gazette War Correspondent etre iC ena

on the C.O.T.C. Front) | Moving swiftly, the panzer diviSunday, Nov. 30, dawned bright | sions covered a mile and a half in
and clear. In the largest scale op-| less than three hours. Under the
erations of the present campaign, watchful eyes of Brigadier MacAspanzer units of the Dalhousie Con-| kill and Major Hogan, the campaign
tingent C.O:T.C. swept through St.| was carried to its brilliant concluMargaret’s Bay road terrain in im- sion with. only one unit being lost
pressive fashion. Crashing through | (they were found later at the local

the thick forests of underbrush,| Pub—all engineers).
guided only by an unerring instinct
and a compass, section after section
executed the maneuvers brilliantly,
losing themselves in the ‘wooded |
plateaus of the sector. |
Led by veterans of former cam- ||,

paigns, casualties were slight. (One |

  
 
  
  

|
}
;
|
:

 

|
;
poor chap, who became hopelessly
entwined about an oaktree, could |
not be extricated and so had to be
put out of his misery.)

“And on a little mound
Napoleon stood...”

 

Schick testing for susceptibility
to diphtheria will be carried out
at the Dalhousie Public Health
Clinic on Monday, December 8th
at 4.30 p. m. and 7.30 p. m.
Every student in the university
is urged to attend, whether or
not a previous test has been
done.

C. W. HOLLAND,
Director,
Student’s Health Service.

Good Lurk and
Merry Christmas
, Everyone

DIPO :

(Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion)
Have You Ever Made a Voluntary Visit to the Archives?

Every year some diabolical inquisitor springs this question on a
peaceful Dal, and as a result seniors search to a hazy past, trying to
remember when frosh initation committees had exerted a hold over them.
The results are about as good as usual. 46% of those questioned had
paid a voluntary visit with women having a higher attendance than the
men. (Amazing what one woman who went back for a pen will do to
the statistics).

 

 

 

ae ae

Should the 0.T.C. Count as a Course?

66% thought that it should count as a course. 9% were undecided
(i.e.—they thought we were going to quote them) and the rest were
definitely against the proposal. The high percentage was caused by
womanly compassion, for 78% answered in the positive, with only 55%
of the males agreeing. Male opinion varied from “it should be abolished,”
“only a half course” (brother, where’s the other half) and “I’m exempt”.
Leaving this last one smirking with fiendish glee, we went over to the

‘womanly side of the question. “Just for the Meds” (whatever that means,

for the O.T.C. is no substitute for any med course), and “It’s a waste of
time” (her boy-friend must be one of those Wednesday night A.T.Cers).
ae a ee
Our Nonenities of the Week

Are You Wearing Long Underwear—for the Males.

Are Women’s Clothes Suited to Winter Wear—for the Females.

Invariably we got the questions mixed, and had to apologize profusely
to embarrassed maidenhood before we got on the track.

Males are very hardy. 100% of them are not wearing long underwear
yet, except in some cases under itchy O.T.C. uniforms. Only in practical
observation have we been able to see any traces of red or white woolies on
the male form divine; this individual’s father happens to be a capitalist
(whatever he means by that—is he implying it is old fashioned). Our
reasons for asking the second are that we have heard Dal is 6 mont
behind American styles. In that case the girls should be going aroum
in those cute spring suits. But evidently they are doing alright. 50
thought they were adequate. J

Aa

 
   
 
rd eae a lates fae of |

Child prodigies who stay out of

| the movies are a more than pleasant

Seobane of THE GAZETTE are those of
assume: that as represent the opinion of

B-8576
S-2936
_ B-8576
S-2597
B-9746
B-5043
L-5592
S-2510
B-8576
B-0453
B-9311

~— ~— ~— —

YOUR ¢ CHRISTMAS EXAMS

h eS, Pg Ro

te Se ae et Mat ee foes
ee seh a Wei ee ea
5h Ee Se ee ee nee

f/
//

| oy ‘mind that this editorial is competition.
s dangerous, for the Editorial is not likely to be

ng of examinations is a subj ect of which most students
little or nothing.
ig comes before writing, If you are a medical
u probably expect to study all night. If you are an
ent, dont do it. After midnight you are most probYe , from your mark, especially the night before
Tr 1 the first place, you are probably learning nothing;
ond, you are hurting your style. Another suggestion
1 should plan your studying. This does not mean that
1 w vrite out sample answers to possible questions.
t ibily remember them. But make sure that you
i: p a each topic in the course. This can be done by
yone, and it will save you the trouble of memorizing
te en in Philosophy. Furthermore, study your
_ He probably wants the paper written in a certain
he is very likely to tell you in some way or other.
r this magic word and you are likely to pass (if you

WHEREIN HAVE WE ERRED?

breetoriel entitled “Repeating Past Errors”, in this
irgosy the editor of the Mount Allison paper expresses
— n over idealistic tendencies among students. The
F tncilént which worries him is the reappearance of
e of Nations Society in Canada, “offering new panaot our ur bidding”. We quote:
ate Students are urged to do their part in the rebuilding .
Civili ‘This our chance to save the world again. And
on, “until we become dazzled by the wealth of promises.
ished on us. It sounds so easy, so wonderful. Assert
our strength, point out our elders’ mistakes. Apparently
college students have an affinity for this sort of fad.”
From this point he goes on to describe a number of our
8 failures. “ Conferences where nothing is achieved
Ks taken in saying so. Societies with flowery names
thout purpose. A pot pourri of worthlessness that will
ve us back into the mire”. Talk, then, was all that the

12 gue, and in that debacle we students had as much guilt
y one else.

: a agreement. Students did share in the failure of the
ast two decades. But our mistake was not so much that our
once ption of society as it should be was wrong but rather that
rusted too much. We signed petitions pledging ourselves
ca use of peace, an ideal which the present war has not
; we propagandized actively for a conception of society
any | of us, at least, still believe to be fundamentally
t in our naiveté we supposed that “politicians and
: tesmen’” meant the same thing when they used the
sed. We believed so firmly in our ideal of the
aan of man that it did not occur to us until too late to
ther a League of Nations whose leaders had risen to
ition through national politics represented adequately
J. We welcomed, though perhaps with a little scepticPeace Pact ‘signed by men who had no intention of
it. But we students, the greater number of us, did not
ae Munich, and thereby we showed that our realism was
fags that of the Scribes and Pharisees.
Let it be granted, then, that we students had our share
wee ucing the crisis which is upon us. Does it follow that
sh noul uld leave the solution to the “big men”, who know more
ré ‘ical affairs than we, as the editor of the Argosy
ests? To us it does not seem so. If we have had a share
failure, it is our task to share in the success. The “big
’ of the past were not alone in their responsibility for the
reser , but those who had the authority must assume
the major portion of the blame.
re University students talk more than they act. Discussion,
hot government, is the function of the university. But let
alse modesty decry the part college students have played in
ordering of politics. ‘New life” movements in various
col ‘ies have been born and nursed in the university.
Students have bled and died for freedom. Let us not forget
the part we can play in constructive thinking, and let us not
trust t hose who will betray us.

7 CORRECTION, PLEASE
ast ; week’s Gazette we suggested that the Federal

was dealing unfairly with workers in that it failed

) effect P.C. 7440, guaranteeing the right of workers
e free y in unions of their own choice. On that point
sinformed. ak, is true that it made recognition of
id Be But that order-in-council has been revoked
os : G. 8258. at is further true that the preamble
er order-in-council states that it was “necessary to
Trovisl to co ver substantially all employers and

: at is Hot fy neans what the new order-in
e ee the one hand it explicitly revokes P.C.

r it makes no mention of any rig ht to organize
irkland Lake takes

babor: on the pretext of extending al

relief. It’s much more bearable to
read about them or to hear them on
the radio than to watch them
through a two-hour cinema. Lorin
Maazel (pronounced Mazell) has to
date been very unobtrusive, and he
may be the bright light of hope in
the peculiarly starless sky of modern classical music.

An honour accorded to very few
mature musicians is that of conducting the greatest of America’s symphony orchestras and getting a return engagement, yet eleven-yearold Maazel has accomplished just
that. In directing performances of
the National Youth Orchestra, the
Los Angeles City Symphony and
Toscanini’s NBC symphony he has
won not only the admiration of
critics and audiences but also the
wholehearted respect of the musicians themselves.

His first performance came on his
ninth birthday. He had conducted
an imaginary orchestra at home
many times before while listening
to recorded symphonies on the orthophonic. A dentist uncle of his
took advantnage of having a great
conductor, Usigli, in the chair by
telling him of Lorin’s wish: to have
as a birthday present the opportunity to conduct Tschaikowsky’s
“Marche Slav”. Accordingly the
boy was brought to hear Usigli’s
orchestra play the number “as a
birthday present”, and then the
great conductor surprised him by
saying that he was not well and
asking him to take over. By his
mother’s report Lorin turned dead
white, but after he got to the
podium he became the confident

master of the orchestra and went
over the “Marche Slav” in the
minutest detail. Just as the conductor was ready to take the baton
again Lorin said to the orchestra in
a grave manner, “Well, Gentlemen,
now that we have corrected the
errors I would like to hear it
through again.”

Mozart had not only conducted but

works at the age of nine. When he
was fifteen all of his concertos were
finished. Maazel plays several instruments and improvises easily so
that he shows some promise in the
direction of composing as well as in
conducting.

No one can say yet whether the
young spark of genius will survive
to become a radiant flame in his
maturity. Many prodigies fade out
after a short-lived brilliance. Lorin
Maazel has a family of musical
genius behind him and his training
is placed in good hands. It may be
that he faces a future as bright as
Mozart did at the same age. He has
not been spoiled by public acclaim,
as the following delightful story
testifies:. After his first public performance an emotional, overwrought woman who had been in the
audience gushed at him that she had
never heard such music performed
so beautifully before. Young Lorin
turned on his heel and walked away,
because he had nothing to say to
such empty and absurd praise. He
has an exceptionally mature comprehension of people as well as of
music.

Christmas

Happiness, Health;

Safe, dear homes,

Sweet scented spruce glittering with

coloured balls,

Gifts.

A glowing hearth and crackling
logs.

Cold, crisp air

And pure white snow.

Peace on earth. Goodwill
men.

Thank God!

among

Christmas

Misery, sickness,

Burning, shattered homes.

Gaunt trees stretching barely skywards,

Rapine.

Lurid flames and bursting bombs.

Reeking, choking dust

And bloodstained soil.

War on earth. Distrust among men.

Great God! Christmas?

You're missing a lot if you
haven't tried Philip Morris
Mixture, today’s greatest
value in pipe tobacco.

In pouches, packages and /2 Ib. tins.

RIDING HORSES

FOR HIRE

AT
BOWER RIDING STABLES

Located Next to Point Pleasant Park.

Excellent Bridle Paths—No Escort required.

For Appointments Phone TOM MURPHY, Stable Master

B-7062

STABLES ON BOWER ROAD

' Merry Christmas
To the Students

KAY’S LIMITED

481 BARRINGTON ST.
-HALIFAX, N. S.

HALIFAX

December 5, 1941

"Any loot, darling?”
"Yes, thank goodness—lots of Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“ The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!
ee

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

MacLeod - Balcom
LIMITED
0

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

O

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

YES!

Birks do carry in stock
Dalhousie rings in both
sterling and gold.

BLAKELEY’S
OD
WELCOME

TO
DALHOUSIE

 

A happy suggestion for
your Christmas list.

LIMITED

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

0

Henry Birks & Sons
|
|

: . 43 Spring Garden Road
Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S. Cate

Dalhousie Antbersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standin , leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc. . ‘
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships,

on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course,

about $190 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men,

 
  
 

 

 

 

 

THE MENTOR

HOW TO STUDY FOR EXAMS.

The Frosh, after many confused months at the University, has, by
this time, been made aware that he is reaching a Crucial Point in his
College Career. In one of the few English passages in the Official
Calendar it is set forth that All Students “must appear at all examinations” .. . But this.is Not All. The Frosh will find that not only is he
expected to Appear, but that he must be prepared to write everything

he thinks he knows about the Subjects he is taking. Herein lies the

whole Difficulty, for it is also stated (in Bold Face) that if Reasonable
Proficiency is not shown, he will be required to “Discontinue attendance
at the University”, and further “Fees will not reimbursed to such
students”. Thus, it is to the Ultimate Advantage of everyone to get
through Examinations, no matter what the cost.

To accomplish this Feat, some Preliminary Preparation is necessary.
This is sometimes referred to, by the uninitiated, as ‘Studying’, but is
known to all Sopohomores as ‘Work’. This can be accomplished in several
ways, which we shall herewith discuss, for the enlightenment and benefit
of those who have yet to devise a Sound System of their own.

The Single System. Before anything in the nature of Real Work can
be accomplished according to this System, it is essential to have the
Proper Environment. The best working conditions are only secured after
all Distracting Elements are removed from the room. To do this, sweep
all Debris from your Bureau into the top drawer, hide the Radio under
the Bed, and put everything else, including your Room-mate, in the
Clothes Closet, locking the door firmly. You are now Stripped for Action.
(Note: To quell the Housekeeper’s Radio, run your Electric Razor. This
creates much Static, and very often a good deal of Friction).

Providing you have followed the suggestions put forth previously,
you should have, by this time, a truly remarkable collection of Lecture
Notes. ‘Take these, and examine them carefully, and then try and
decipher them. This should not be too difficult. As you progress, you
will find the light is beginning to dawn. Persevere, and you will be duly
rewarded. If you have been unable to make notes during lectures, your
only recourse will be to use your Books. This is Harmful, for in this
way you will study much Extraneous Material. Since most Professors
know only what they give in lectures, and mark accordingly, it is inadvisable to study anything extra; you will only be accused of padding.

The Joint System. This System makes use of that Valuable Psychological Discovery that no two people have the same ideas about anything.
By pooling your knowledge, then, it is sometimes possible to get approximately what the Professor wants on the exam. In the Joint System,
environment does not play so important a part. All that is really needed
is a large room, a quantity of scrap paper, and somebody who knows a
little about the course you wish to study. By filling the room with dense
clouds of cigarette smoke, you can study for hours without stopping or
feeling fatigued. (Note: It is best to have a preliminary session in the
afternoon, at which all the latest Stories can be told, assuring a reasonably uninterrupted nights work).

The Frosh are advised that these are the two most Universally

‘Accepted Systems, and that others, when tried, have proven far less

successful. Of these, one—the Convivial System—is almost dangerous,
and is not recommended until later in your College Career, after you
have learned to Absorb lectures through the pores, and can afford the
wasted time. The two suggestions above should Amply carry you over
the present Crisis. The Mentor wishes you the Best of Luck.

 

Four little skunkies,

Feeling oh so blue,

Had to go to church today

And sit in their own pew.
—Manitobian.

 

Heard outside the Hall the other * * ®
nite: “Thanks for the squeeze.”
“Oh, that’s all right, the pressure is
all mine.”

ing violets is that they’ve been in
hot water.

* * *
% * *

He (asking a riddle): “Why is it
you have so many boy friends?”
She: “I give up.”
—Queen’s Journal.

Vondlonpul /

8 casily separated cubes
of fine french-style chocolate
each filled with liquid golden

vanilla butter creme

Mary—‘‘Have you ever had any
stage experience ?”

Doug—“Well, I had my leg in a
cast once.”

 

 

mre sts

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

& THE FEATURE FOLIO x

WL CLES) CF

IS)

The proximity of the Exams have
caused a decided Dirth of Grime this
last week. We were given to understand, however, that Charlie just
couldn’t wait to celebrate at the
Sucker Dance on Saturday Nite.

VTaAV

The same Sucker Dance caused
many to appear for a last fling before setling down. “Tuffie”’ Wilson
and “Yank” appeared to enjoy themselves though the Navy got kind of
tough. Wilcox also ran.

Is ete ao. to convert the Hall, or doesn’t he know
that the Navy has landed, and has
the situation well in hand.

The blissful expression on Bunnie’s face might be due to a number
of reasons, but our guess is that
Reardon is back in town.

Vay

“Lightning” strikes in the same
place twice, which, in our estimation is something. We are wondering if Helen prefers Supper Dancing
to bridge, or is it something else?

What Physics Instructor’s diligent
interest in his work keeps him so
busy around the weaker sex? The
others are beginning to complain.

aed

This “Fido” certainly gets around.
The latest reports are that he is
favoring Siriol with his attentions.
What happened to Anne?

Ted Rettie seems to be getting
lots of exercise these days, walking
Leah to and from her labs. It must
be convenient to live so close to the
Hall.

Still cluttering up the Hallways,
our friend O’Brien just can’t seem
to find a place where he can be
alone.. Somebody lend him a nickel,
and maybe he’ll take her to a show,
or something.

 

 

A Merry Christmas?

TSQUARE| J

Since this is the last time we'll
get a chance to‘have any fun before
exams, here goes.

Altho’ its seems premature many
people are looking forward to the
combined Engineers’-Meds’ Ball.
Graham Bennett, a lone “wolf” vows
solemnly that he will appear with a
damsel—well, who can tell? Musset says "Boy! I hope Naugler
brings those traps” (exit singing
Phi Delta Theta—sober men are

we!)
*

 

Why did Bill Hagen object to the
display of a certain photo (for further details see Red Payne).

 

We know Lantz had a good time |
at the H.C.A. last Friday, even the |
moon was Nichol-plated. And we|
hear that Don Matheson doesn’t like |
rear-view mirrors. (??7?7?) |

 

;
Would you believe it, but we have |
it from a usually reliable source |
that our hermit, Roger Brown actu- |
ally had a date recently—What IS
this world coming to. It seems

{that the girls are getting the best

of it, anyway.

Don MacKay didn’t believe that
saying about ‘thin ice”.

 

Another engineer has left for the
services, and our loss is the Air
Force’s gain. The best of luck to

Douglas Large.

FL

SIS

And speaking of living close to
the Hall, we are wondering if Doug.
Robertson hadn’t better move a little clhyser. That Johnny McLellan
is sure getting right in there.

Yay

Noted amongst the ranks of the
hardy perennials are Dave Archibald and Jean Phinney. Another
good man to take off your list,
young Kissy.

GRIME SMIRCHES ON!

 

OXFORD

Friday - Saturady - Monday
December 5th - 6th
“TOM, DICK AND HARRY”
“HELLO SUCKER”

December 8th - 9th
“BLOSSOMS IN THE DUST”
“TIGHT SHOES”

December 10th - Lith
“DR. KILDARE’S
WEDDING DAY”

“WORLD PREMIERE”

centrated on the right thing. You will appreciate the many
features of Tip Top’s tailoring technique, the newness of
style, the excellence of the British woolens, the wideness of
selection—all because we try to conform to the fashions
desired by university students;
students of style.

TIP TOP TAILORS

 

418 — 420 "BARRINGTON STREET, HALIFA X

ri

e Ines sOyf

Each time you taste ice-cold esa Calas you are aecas :
that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience... de
many a refreshing experience... has taught people every- *
where to trust the quality of “Coca-Cola.”

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

Fe 8S ee en .

 

 

     
   
    
     
   
      
 

 

Ciace men will appreciate that Tip Top Tailors have
avoided the wrong thing as carefully as they have con
HiT 0 J ue
i ic

=

 

    
   
     
 
    
    
  
   
   
   
    
  
 
  
  
 
 
     
   
   
 

Page Three

ORPHEUS

December 8th - 9th - 10th

“STORK PAYS OFF
‘SECRETS OF LONE WOLF’

Garrick

A Famous Players Theatre
Saturday - Monday — Tuesday
“I WAKE UP SCREAMING”

“SMALL TOWN DEB”

December llth - 12th - 13th

) MEXICAN SPITFIRE’S
BABY”

“SADDLEMATES”

Wednes. - Thursday - Friday
“GAMBLING DAUGHTERS”
“MR. CELEBRITY”

C' 4; C
Fam Players Theatre

Friday, Saturday, Monday

 

The New

CASINO

“Navy Blues”

ANN SHERIDAN
JACK OAKIE

*

Cuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

“When Ladies
Meet”

JOAN CRAWFORD
ROBERT TAYLOR

\STUDENTS
of STYLE

*

SECOND
WEEK

 

%

Abbott and Costello
Keep ’em Flying

AS CO-PILOTS THEY’RE
CO-RIOTS!

 

Cailored-to- Measure

because we too are

 

Limited

Carl Merson, Dartmouth Agent

 

f
y

 

 
   

   

McGill Sportscene
“All work and no play, ete...”
It’s an old saw and you know the
rest, but it was a wise man who

- first spoke the words. Amateur
athletics play more than the role of
a pastime in our Canadian univer
     
       
 

eh a

 
    
 
 
  
     
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
    
 
   
     
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
    

ie __ Sities, nor do our neighbors to the
_ south differ from us there.
~~ hus one finds college students
(|) CU Leal ia alee r
from Dalhousie to U.B.C. “getting
inte” sports to a greater or lesser
; Ae degree, according to their individual
Ar < physical abilities, desires, and needs,
and to the time at their disposal
for such extra-curricular activities.
. ‘Py - Some entertain dreams of develop___ ing into an all-star back on the football team, while others seek no more
than a bang--up game of ping pong
‘as a means of whiling away an
! i __ oecasional hour. In either event the
fer ‘object is fundamentally the same,
-—s je. to shift momentarily one’s cones) eentrated effort from the wearied
mental to the neglected physical. A
little time for such a purpose is
surely well invested. :
Now I like ping pong!
---You may prefer badminton, and I
respect your desires, for since we
live in @ democratic land, we are
welcome and entitled to our individual, personal perferences. Similarly, as we travel across Canada, we
will note that different sections of
our great body of students vary
-_-_-gonsiderably relative to their opinions concerning just what sports
they like best to indulge in, although the exhilaration. derived is
universally the same.
- However, the original purpose of
this article was to draw a brief

ganized and participated in at McGill University in Montreal. Let us
dwell first on the organization.
Upper Canadian universities have
suspended for the duration all regular intercollegiate sports such as
rugby, hockey, water polo, basketball, track and field, ete. This left
a big gap to fill in each of the
schools affected, and, at McGill, all
sports have been reorganized on a
military basis. That is to say, there
are teams for each of the above_ mentioned sports drawn from the
_ student trainees, and representing
their companies or platoons. In the
_ fall season, football teams are or_ ganized bearing the names of Army,
_ Navy and Air Force, and compete
_ enthusiastically for the “championship” of the league. Coach Doug
Pee Kerr and assistant coaches, who
eds mas.

Canadian football to McGill Interere ee reer Soe ee

~ You'll never be any

bya a
(eel i. . 9)
ae

eae e ‘ 3 i A
- YOUNGER

Fort a young man or woman

_ looking forward to a success
|. fal career, there is no sounder

_ habit than that of regular savings .... and no sounder form

Of savings than life insurance!

Premium rates, attractively

| __ low today, increase in steady

} ——s—sprogression with every year

that you delay.

; The Mutual Life of Canada
has developed a number of insurance plans especially suited
to the needs of younger people.

A Mutual Life representative
will gladly help you select the
‘plan which is best fitted to
your individual requirements.
| For war-time needs. . . the

new "VICTORY POLICY”
lt i :

To help you combine substan_._ imsurance protection, the new
“Victory Policy” has recently
been developed by The Mutual
| _ Life of Canada. This policy has
___ several features which will be
_-—s«eexttremeliy attractive to univerbe. i ___ sity students,

. See your nearest Mutual Life
nee Sort e we
icy” and other advantageous

plans. Or write The Mutual Life

of Canada, Waterloo, Ont. Do it

   
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
    

     
 

   

 

U ob 4

   
 

a
ee

  
 

sketch of athletics as they are or-| prayer to save them from disaster—

formerly taught the finer points of | rowing, sailing,

 

scholastic teams, now labour with
these teams diligently, and some
football is produced.

Of course, probaly McGill’s greatest sports tradition lies in the great
Canadian game of ice hockey. Most
of us will doubtless recall that only
a few years back the Redmen were
as good a team as any senior
amateur aggregation in the Dominion. As well as ability, the collegians had that college spirit which
made them a tough opponent for
any of their rivals both in and outside of the Quebec Senior Group.
McGill men still play hockey, but
the great red team is momentarily
only a memory. Last season the
Montreal Royals Junior team which
upset Oshawa Generals and went on
to the Memorial Cup finals was liberally seasoned with students, some
of whom have stepped up this year
to fill vacancies in the senior Royals
team. The military aspect again
enters the picture here, for there
are now teams bearing the names
of Infantry, Artillery, Navy, Air
Force, and Marines battling it out
for the Championship of the McGill
Reserve Training Battalion in regular games at the Forum. Later in
the winter, other company teams
will again compete in the outdoor
league whose games are played on
the Redpath campus rink. ~

Now in Montreal some folk play
tennis, some play golf, some swim,
some skate, etc., etc., but everyone
skis. Only a short decade back this
great Scandinavian sport was enjoyed by but a small proportion of
the population, who, even then, were
looked upon as being rather reckless
for risking their necks on hickory
lightning, with only luck and a

and few of them prayed at that.
But time changes all things and
within the past few years the former foolhardy sport has swept like a
tidal wave over all the Laurentian
district. Today, everyone from)
Junior to Granny grabs “skis” and
“hops” one of the ski trains which
every weekend carries enormous
numbers of enthusiasts northward |
from the metropolis into the bald,
old Laurentians. Yes, the most
popular winter sport at McGill is
skiing, and no other sport even
comes close!

Other sports indulged in are
much of the same as those we have
at Dal, and you would find badminton, squash, handball, English rugger, water polo, fencing, boxing. and
wrestling, weightlifting, track and
field, harrier, gymnastics, soccer,
etc., all being carried on to a greater or lesser degree.

 

This must not go on forever, although you have probably feared
long since that it would. However,
I have almost overlooked one last
worthy organization. Have you

© | guessed it? Yes, there is also actu
ally a McGill Bridge Club. How a
few of the Pine Hill lads would ap
 

®@ To win the world’s first beauty contest,
Aphrodite exercised charm. And by charms
of a different nature) Picobac has won
popularity contest open to all pipe
tobaccos. The winning charms of the heh of
Canada’s Burley crop are that it is always a mild,
cool, sweet smoke and amazingly low in price.

(
the Canadian

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH « 15¢
44-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN .«

also packed in Pocket Tins

cobac

Pi
“It DOES taste

SS

  

_a hike, or other form of exercise which wouldn’t be so strenu
 

 

Aphrodite, knowing men, bribed Paris with a pack
Of that most precious herb now sold as Picobac.

   

ee

December 5, 1941

 
  
 

  
   
  

— — ~ ~— ~

SPORT

pice

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

564% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Y.M.C.A. Building — B-7530
381 Barrington Street
31 Spring Garden Rd. — B-6440

We Specialize in CORSAGES |!
and All Kinds of Design Work |!

by AL. MacLEOD

 

  
  

  

 

 

eyes | ; THE FOLLOW THE REST OF
The editorial ear has been treated to a burst of grandi- THE BOYS
loquence, and the editorial neck has felt the hot breath of the|| The Rc eee re CO. FOR YOUR FOOTWEAR

Enthusiast. “What ho, what ho, what ho,” he cried, as he
bounded gaily into the academic chambers, to be greeted only |
by cold stares. ‘What ho”, he continued, his ardor only slightly |
dampened by the chilly reception. The conversation having
thus been opened, he carried on nobly, but it’s hardly worth
transcribing his actual words.

TO
SHANE’S SHOE STORE

Special Discount to Students

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

—

397 BARRINGTON ST. B9144

 

 

 

 
 

a * 2K *
“Winter”, was his profound observation, “is here’. Blow,
blow, thou winter wind, thou art not so unkind, and all that rot.
If Winter comes can Spring be far behind, so to speak.. O the
long and dreary Winter, the cold and cruel Winter, dontcherknow.” Having stifled this outburst by the dexterous application of a particularly old and unwashed sock, the listener
awaited his return to normalcy. After much choking and gagging, the visitor had recovered sufficiently to state his case. It
was staggering in its portent.

* 3k K ae
“When this beastly examination grind is completed’, he
said, “and we return from the Yuletide festivities with wellfilled pokins lined, shall we not organize sleigh-rides for the
student body, the better to acquaint ourselves with sociological
relations and science of astronomy? Shall we not make with
nocturnal prowlings in the hinterland, and with skiling expeditions into the snow-covered countryside? Shall we not have
skating parties on some ice-covered lake which we may find
snuggled between surrounding hills? Shall we not have happy
outings for the Stupid Body, where guys and gals may mingle
with the mob, and tingle in the frosty air? Shall we not have
a greater decentralization of college sport? Why not sport for |

the masses, rather than for the Select Few?”

ok oR ok *K
We really didn’t know why there couldn’t be healthy, sporting activity for ALL students at Dalhousie when the New Year
rolls around. We could see the visitor’s point of view. A great
many people aren’t interested in the least in active praticipation in organized sports. But they WOULD be interested in a/
skating party, a skiiing party, a snowshoe party, a sleigh-ride,

A

   

will help you
A next term i

  

® Unique, and utterly different,
this gleaming laminated-pearl
Parker Vacumatic Pen has everything! Patented ‘“one-hand” filler
—a simple diaphragm sealed in
the top...gives the pen nearly
twice as much ink capacity, because there’s no need for oldfashioned rubber sac and filler
mechanism. inside.

Its patented “Television”
barrel lets you SEE the
level of the ink. It can’t
run dry unless you let it.

Its 14 Kt. Gold Point is
skilfully tempered for
resiliency—tipped with
selected high-polished
Osmiridium—assmooth :
as oil. iN

Parker’s Blue Dia- Ey
mond Mark on the E>

smart Arrow Clip #s
means Guaranteed for Life—you will never have to =
buy another. 7S

Start right with a Parker. All good pen counters | a
have a selection of grandnewstyles. Seethemtoday. —:sam

   
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
     
   

ous, but which would be equally beneficial. Indeed, the more
we thought about it, the better the idea sounded. We allowed
the editorial imagination to wander—

XK * * *

We Saw a band of healthy, red-cheeked undergraduates
gambolling high on a windy hill, some skiiing, some sledding.
Some were following frosty, winding trails through the woods.
Here was being waged a snowball fight, while from a distance
came the crackle of a fire, and the fragrance of freshly brewed |

coffee ... Ah, yes. How dear to our h >|
our childhood’... our hearts are the scenes of |

ok * * *

 

 

  
   
 

pa But snapping out of our bevanta ws waid: “They beta: The Parker Fountain Pen Co., Limited, Toronto, Canada : 3 eh te
it.” And there seemed to be little doubt but that the Council ¢ Sma : oe
would throw cold water on any such simple scheme for simple | SOARAN FS
pleasure, and we decided to forget all about it. But before we | <=
dismissed it entirely from our minds we thought that it might ar er i] Nie

at least be a suggestion for something to do in January and she aa
February. And if a few people were really interested, it’s a —— VACUMATIC= Maen

sure thing that in a democratic university such as Dalhousie is
Ss

their voices, no matter how still
unheard .. . sill and small, would not go

Pens marked with the Blue Diamond are guaranteed for
life against everything except loss or intentional damage
subject only to a charge of 35¢ for postage, insurance and
handling, provided complete pen is returned for service.

4

 

rad ara ard) add) ray lee rhe eee erte ir
¥
Mos... en S |

preciate a
Cribbage ?

similar society! Or it is $e Pi

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”
THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS
Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone B-6881

Choose From The Range of Gowns Featured at

EATON’S!... There Are Styles, Materials and
Prices To Suit Practically All Tastes and Budgets!

At 17.50 *° 22.50

Gowns that are styled for real comfort and made of better
quality all wool flannels. Finished with convenient
pockets, self girdle and in colours of maroon, fawn and
grey. Small, medium and large sizes.

At 13.95

Rich-looking brocaded rayons used in tailoring these
dressing gowns! — Two-tone color effects, in shades of
green, maroon and blue. With self tie at waist and in
small, medium and large sizes.

4t 12.95

Plain shades of blue, maroon or grey in these gowns—
with effective contrasting color trims. Nicely tailored of

good quality all wool flannels. Small, medium and large
sizes.

At 8.95

Lapels and pockets faced with rayon in contrasting color
—a smart-looking gown of all wool flannel. Colors of
blue, maroon and green. Small, medium and large sizes.

eS i.oo

Men will Jike these rayon dressing gowns which come in
smart stripes and colors of blue, green or maroon. Small,
medium and large sizes.

 

65¢

0

“T, EATON

MARITIMES

good in a pipel’”

 

 

 
