   

 

u JLIPPINGS

Ls BY-DOYRIA GE

 

 

(Exchange)

The other day several co-eds
ie “pleaded with me (you should have
} os heard their sobs—it was wonderful)
a to request all boys to be a bit
ei more polite to them during Sadie
_ Hawkins’ Week. It seems that one
of the co-eds considered herself in- sulted when the Scienceman she
Gnvited to the Dogpatch Drag last
year called her a “dirty old, tightwad” and said (horrors!) she had
the manners of a big fat pig.”
Whether she deserved it or not 1
think the fellow in question could
have used a bit more subtlety in his
remarks. After all most girls don’t
like being called tightwads and pigs.
Boys must remember that girls
only treat boys once a year and
thus do not know how to spend
money and certainly do not know
how te behave when they are doing
the escorting. Instead of appealing
to the girls, I have decided to offer
a few pointers (with the help of
_ Dr. Herman P. O’Toole, head of the
_ Department of Pushing Girls
Around and Making Them Like It)
to the boys so that they will be able
to help the co-eds become better
escorts. I must warn everyone,
ee satel that if you follow these
rules you are a heel and that if you
ever again get a date a fifty dollar
prize is in the offing. You will probably recognize most of the following suggestions. You should, if
-_-you’re in the habit of taking out
girls.
| (1) In the first place accept as
many dates as possible and then call
off all except one ten minutes be_ fore the dance. Pick the one with
_the wealthiest father. She'll need
the money.
(2) When the dear girl calls at
__- your house keep her waiting. Scream
ten times down the stairs that “you
ee 7 will just be a minute, honey.” Wait
vy _ three minutes between each scream
‘ if you want to get her boiling mad.
im ‘The time to come down is when
: she starts yelling “If you're not
down in a minute, I'll come up and
uy _ get you, you louse.” Hold your
_ hands behind your neck as you walk
down the stairs. This. will kill her.
_ (3) As you can’t give her a purse
a i carry, bring a closed umbrella
(the bottom filled with rocks) and
2 i - coyly ask her to carry it. Of course
| if it rains i going to be out of
— luck
| (4) Upon cekehiwes the street
eee coughing and blowing your
i % nose and tell her you have a cold.
ite ne that doesn’t work say you have
¢ sore feet. If she doesn’t call a taxi
r after that one, you’ve picked the
peaes Bt,
(5) Do not take your own over“coat off when you reach the dance.
Wait until she does it for you. If
e isn’t too temperamental hold
onto one sleeve. It will make it
cult for her.
6) When she offers you a cigdrop at least two on the floor.
en she offers you a light exhale
al Ww two or three matches out.
Lt ae and annoyed.
BN t
\ is qu ye ently ee, the evening and
hat you feed stand ates Tf that

  

 

 

 

 

  
   

..
lia”

ms

     
  
    
  

    
   
    
     
   
   
  
   
     
  
    
    
  

i : af

are thirsty fre
  
  
   

       

AAWKINS VISITS CAM

Basketcer
Challeng
Basketbelles )

The men of Dalhousie, glorying
in their superiority, have had a
call to arms. They yearn to meet
Dal’s co-eds in a basketball encounter in the gym, with no quarter given, and no_ holds barred.
So confident are they of victory,
however, they'll play under any
rules or conditions, even having
one arm tied around any girl.
That would be a handicap, naturally, but it would lend the element of suspense and, perhaps,
suspicion, to the occasion.

Dal’s males hurl defiance at the
Hall, and suggest that “them
dames” come out with eyes blazing. Womanly wiles will be of no
avail. It will be of no advantage
to cloud the issue with powderpuffs, mascara, or any other feminine affectation.

Say the men, “We ’uns ’ll get
ya, babes!”

—— 
Bob Walter Award
To Feature

Engineers Banquet

tian Hotel on Feb. 28th. Featuring
the banquet will be the presentation
of the second Bob Walter award by
Prof. W. P. Copp. This award is
given annually to the student best
exemplifying the characteristics of
Bob Walter:: fellowship, sportsmanship and scholarship.

Bob Walter graduated in engineering at Dal in 1940 and seemed
slated for a brilliant future. Fate
deemed otherwise, however, and the
following fall Bob met death in a
hunting accident. He was an outstanding student and athlete and,
above all, a friend of everyone.

to Bert Vail, who is now attending
N. 8. Technical College. The award
committee consists of Professors
Copp and Theakston, Jack MacKenzie, Mac Campbell and Verne Graham.

 

Student Solons Select
Seven For Awards

Munro Day Committees

At a meeting of the Students’
Council, held last night, committees
for Munro Day and for the annual
awards were chosen. The Munro
Day committee is to consist of Ken
Jones, Don Kirkpatrick, Chris Arklie and Penny Patchell, while Jack
Matthew, Blanchard Wiswell and
Inez Smith will compose the awards
committee.

After a lengthy discussion the
Council decided that it would not
sponsor the I. S. S. drive this year,
but would devote its entire efforts
to aiding the Mt. Allison rehabilitation fund. Waltham Gaudet was
placed in charge of this drive. The
The I.S.S. will, however, conduct a
separate campaign on the campus.
Final budget estimates were considered by the meeting and the
Council voiced its approval of the
estimates for the remainder of the
year. Both the Delta Gamma and
the Glee Club budgets are $100
beneath their original grants. The
D.A.A,.C. budget was also approved.
Suggestions were made for nom
inations for President and © VicePresident of next year’s Council.

: These will be considered by the

 
  
 

~ I?

r hg Bi

.| executive committee at a meeting
1 to be ae on Sunday.
ne

ae

  
 
 

i Fa

 

— ee

The annual Engineers’ banquet is | too
slated to be held at the Nova Sco-| groomed dress, but ‘withal the shal
The first and original award went | «

“THE COLLEGE

— s
~~

Gury. =
v

~

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 18, 1942 .

     

Disgruntled Undergrad

The Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax, N. S.
Dear Sir:

the following classifications:
Class I: “He spent ten dollars on
me tonight—he’s divine!”

My cheeks are wet with tears,, Class II: “He spent five dollars
and my heart is heavy with sympa-| on me—he nice.”
thy for each and every one of those Class III: “He spent two-fifty on

eager and conscientious undergraduates who during the past year have
attempted to interest the student
mind in student activity. For all
their efforts have been in vain: witness the attempted-pep-rallies of
last fall and the absortive efforts to
enliven basketball ‘n‘ights” with a
bit of dancing. These good samaritans of Dalhousie, these would-be
caterers to the undergraduate appetite for fun have been despised
and rejected as unwelcome “reformers’, and all their good works have
come to nought.

me—he’ll have to do until I get my
hooks into a Class II man.”

Class IV: “He spent a mere dollar on me — he’s not too nice to
know, but perhaps he’s kind to his
mother.”

Class V: “He took me to the show
and nothing to eat afterwards! Only

he’s no conversationalist.
drip!

At other Maritime universities,
where “sophisitication” is accepted
only as a thin veneer to cover a
great deal of stupidity, co-eds do

What a

money talks, girls, and you can see.

And while this theme has often
found disgruntled expression in the
pages of the Gazette in the past ten
years, we cannot quell a desire to
say another word on the subject.

To my mind, the great fault lies
with Dalhousie’s co-eds—the aristocrats of the ladies’ seminaries: they
of the faultless bearing, the none-gracious manner, the well
low mind. After some experience
with, and observation of the female
of the Dalhousie clan, I have concluded that a successful “date” with

not consider it beneath them to pitch
in and help with student activities.
Indeed the majority are so provencal
and naive as to believe that cooperation in student activities makes
university life a more wholesome
and satisfying experience. Of course
this attitude of mind will all be
changed if any of these filles jeunes
ever come to Dalhousie: for their
sophisticated sisters at the Hall will
quickly convince them that to dip
their dainty hands in work, for the
common good, is unworthy of them.
They will also learn that “no date”

a member of the Shirreffian ilk is| is almost as good as a “purseless”
to be had not without great price. | date, unless the latter provides a
For long years of attendance at| “lead” to a more substantially
functions held in the local hotels, or | walleted escort.
in the more “ultra” of the city! To shorten this unhappy story, it
homes, has made her scorn the| all boils down to the simple proposisimple pleasures that life has to| tion that Dalhousie’s “spirit” ills
offer. Not for her are the dates| can be traced in large part to its
where “two small cokes” and a lot| co-eds, who think that the gym is
of conversation are the only nourish-| the world’s worst place to throw a
ment, edible or intellectual. To her| dance, and whose only virtue is that
a street-car is a much too, too/|it provides a roof for Roy’s where
common” conveyance, to be classed| their fur coats, bandanas and colorwith the ungraceful but utilitarian] ed glasses apparently show to adwheelbarrow, and to be scorned even | vantage.
as is that humble conveyance. Not | And so it seems clear that Dalfor her are there stars, and moon,| housie social functions will continue
and misty rain, and windy hills, or| to go ungraced by the presence of
the unsophisticated énchantnient of | Dal co-eds — until pep rallies, tea
sunlight fields. Such simple, inex-| dances, debates, hockey games and
pensive pleasures were for her an- basektball games are held in one of
cestors, but sunlight fields in this! the local hotels, with a gleaming
/modern age are quite, quite passé. | headwaiter in constant attendance,
It would seem that the Hall| ginger-ale at thrice price at the
“debs”, upon returning from what | snap of a finger, and a cozy taxi at
may, for want of a better word be| the door.
called a “date”, would figuratively |
pigeon-hole their escorts in one of!

GLEE CLUB TO
THROW MASKED BALL

Cynically yours,
D. S. GRUNTLED.

 

Fast Feature Fracas For Friday

Owing to numerous and, we might say, well-founded, complaints of too much formality at Dalhousie dances, the Glee
Club, in a pioneering mood, will attempt an unique feat, one
unheard of by sophisticated Dal students On Friday, Feb. 20,
the Glee Club extends a cordial invitation for each and every
one of you weary, bored Dalhousians to attend a masquerade
ball in the gymnasium.

Novelties, prizes and a_ general
all around good time will feature
the evening. As a special added attraction, one which we predict will
pierce the veneer of even the most
sophisticated, the whole shebang is
free. Admission will be by Council
ticket. Let your hair down, gang,
get a taste of real life. Come and
make this effort a success. We'll
give you 10—1 odds that you'll have
the time of your life.

Come in costume and masked,
without a partner. Male and female
stags are the order of the day. Of
course, if you are one of the fearful who shudder with horror at the
thought of a break with tradition,
you may bring an escort. You'll be
admitted, but the scorn and contempt

of your fellows will follow you
throughout the dance.

re
:
sale
ag)

ei

  
 

   

sF
ae
:

ps
a

 

No. 16

US”

atch Hits Dal Feb. 24;

   

  

 

Dogp
pate Shirruffian Poshue Co-eds to Manhandle
Next Issue of Gazette

| Men, Beware! Sadie’s on the loose

|again. Get on your best running
shoes and strat travelling. On Feb.
24th, Dogpatch hits Dal in grand
style.

Tuesday night, at nine o'clock, the
gun goes off and the gals will be
on the loose. The best place to hide
will be none too good. These modern
Dogpatch girls have super-sensi‘ive
searching powers. Don’t worry too
much though, ‘cause it will be a
painless operation for you prospective L’il Abners. It won’t cost a
cent. The gals are treatin’ to the
best little informal Dance to hit this
or any other campus. The place is
the Dal Gym. The music by Jerry.
Naugler. The eats are to be good

 

GUESS WHAT?

 

One Moment

| and plentiful.

Something tells this
Dogpatcher that the boys aren't go
ing to be running too hard or too

The §.C.M. will hold a service in|
observance of the World’s Day of |
Prayer, under the auspices of the|
N.S.C.F., in King’s Chapel, Sunday,
Feb. 15, at 7 p.m.

 

The Dal Badminton Champion- |

Please » “

| enough for the female of the species

Oh you lucky fellows that get
caught.

And besides this, as if it wasn’t
| to take over the functions of their
masculine superiors, in the method
| described above, but the brazen hus
sies are going to take over the
|Gazette next week. Is nothing
sacred? So we’re warning you be
forehand that any resemblance on
these pages next week to anyone

either living or dead is no coincidence—it’s a miracle.

ships will be held at the gym at
7.30 Monday night. Competition
is open in men’s singles, women’s
singles, men’s doubles, wemen’s
doubles, and mixed doubles. To
enter, sign name on bulletin board
in the gym.

=

Knights of Alley
Issue Challenge
| The Legal Eagles of the Law

School hereby issue a sounding
challenge to any organization on

 

All Dal students are invited to
attend an Inter-Varsity Fellowship

 

 

meeting this Sunday at 4.30 p.m.| the campus (especially ComPlace: 72 Henry Street. | merce), which boasts a four-man
bowling team. Big or small,
they’ll take you all. Terms: Los
Don’t forget that Thursday

| ers pay —nickel a nine, or anynight is Dalhousie basketball

;

|

thing you wish. Any takers?

Make arrangements with “Sandy” MacDonald, at the Law
School, who will make the necessary legal arrangements. S.R,0O.
for the suckers, on the left.

DIPO

The Desert Island Question

Miss Lorna MacQuarrie emerges as the Dalhousie “girl I would like
to be stranded with on a desert island”. She had 50% of the votes and
a clear lead over her competitors. 16% were undecided, and individual
votes were given to Agnes DeMone, Katherine Robinson, Mary Marion,
Betty Ritchie, Mrs. Sikes (for her cooking), and a girl named Suse, or
Susy. One misogynist said: “Stranded would be the word”, and another:
“One who can cook”,

night. Next Thursday Dal’s
arch rivals from Wolfville journey to Halifax to meet the
Tigers.
Acadia.

Support Dal against

 

?

?

ee" x Se ek ®

What Do You Think of Lisle Stockings?

This was a purely feminine question, but two males volunteered to
answer it. One said, “I never bother thinking about them,” and the other,
“I never think.” Of the girls queried 60% sang with. adulations galore
their praises, and 40% sang equally vehemently that they were terrible.

Some commended them on the ground that they were practical; two
girls said they were wonderful, and that they were a good idea. One of
the negatives volunteered this information: “The same thing happens to
girls that wear lisle stockings as it does to girls who wear black woollen
stockings—NOTHING!”

¥, ee

Your Favorite Slang Expression?

Everyone at Dalhousie has their own favorite expression, it would
seem. No one “slangy” emerged with a clear lead, or any kind of a lead
at all. Here they are as they were received: “Gosh, lay on, Macduff”;
“Oooooogh”; “What do you care?”; “Have I got one?”; “You look like
—, ————_ (a different blank from the last one), “Gee,”;
“Oh, oh!”; “So help me”; “O, heck!” “Phoozle”; “Good heavens!”; “TI
couldn’t tell you that”; “Oh dear!”;
and several “Don’t use them”; “Oh yeah!”

“Gentle, gentle”; “Thrill! Thrill "zl
fa P us
y ceed Te a 72 pe a vidya Pik

a g & fata aie f ae ea ae
3 a he i + ae et hd

Bo ae OO *

The Oldest College Paper in America”
ny column of THE GAZETTE are those of
assumed that they represent the opinion of

.
Ea ep

ine

 
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
   
 
    
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
    
   
 
    
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
   

sCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 64 Argyle St, Halifax
- GAZETTE STAFF

OHN W. GRANT eat dct ar ae BRAS

r: A. S. FORSYT ih eth a > eeORG

itor: JOHN TASMAN ~ ee. oe.) =©6862507

r: AL MACLEOD eee ae an” a -  B-8576

tors LOUISE BISHOP - «= - =-  B-9746

and Exchange: DON BLACK - - - ~-_ B-5043:

of Editor: DAVID COLDWELL- - - - =- _ B-8576
son Editor: WALLACE OGILVIE - - - ~- __ B-6568
lation Manager: BOB McCLEAVE - - - -__ B-8576
ess Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD AOE oie

~~

/

SS

Photographer: DON OLAND

-... Once the need is established only one thing more
ded and that is student support. With it there is
g to prevent a students’ union building coming

rmounted to be sure.
shouldn’t we?

on Feb. 16th, 1940, the editor of the Dalhousie Gazette
present president of the students’ council) was optimistic
nces for a students’ union building at Dalhousie. Since
as everyone knows, much has happened. King’s college
nce has been lost to a naval invasion and a housing
tage in the city has added to nearly everyone’s difficulties.
re they Dalhousie’s difficulties alone, for Mt. Allison has
a@ residence by fire and another maritime university, it is
rumored, will be forced this year to raise its tuition fees, thus
adding to the problems of those intending to study there next
r. Admittedly students are not worse off than many others,
' should they receive proportionately more consideration
others. And we have not seen any of them roosting in
in the nearby woods. But everyone is aware that unity authorities are facing some problems for the coming
r. Indeed they are some signs that Dalhousie officials are

ng to cope with problems here.

But others have solved them,

slothy attitude on the part of the student body, some
nce might have been looked for on such projects from
dents themselves under leadership of their council.

| reminds us that student president Macdonald is a man
of ideas, replete with the necessary accompanying qualities of
_ optimism and enthusiasm. A letter he published in the Gazette
ew weeks ago gives unmistakeable evidence of the fact that
kes his duties seriously. We can look to him to action.

2 Gazette is willing to sound out opinion on the matter and
alhousie students are not different from other humans in
at they will lend their effort to something which seems
sible to them. Something, for instance, like the students’

erative houses which have been so successful in Toronto.
ead must come from the only body equipped by constitund composition to supply it. As far as we are aware the
1 has not yet discussed the matter in any of the vexa, three-to-four-sessions it has held this year. If it has we
humbly apologize, but the question still remains, “What to do?”

One reply to such remarks as this may be anticipated.
ready there are alarmists who prophesy that there will be
university next year. With the same attitude adopted by
ean look for continuation of college education in Canada
_ through the war years.
_ in accordance with government planniig. It is even feasible

td 1at the terms will be lengthened and the number of years
- required for a degree shortened. But Canada is badly enough
in need of trained men and women now, and will be badly
enough in need of them in the years of reconstruction that will
follow the war not to close its institutions of learning at this
critical time. Indeed, since the government has looked and will
tinue to look to the universities for help in running its huge
r machine, the universities may well look to the government
or help in financing and housing its students.

But this does not take the baby off the councii’s doorstep
| ny means. For if there is one generalisation that can be
ly made about democratic government in Canada 1942 it is
remedial legislation for minorities usually comes about
when the minority forms itself into a pressure group.
government is busy, to understate it somewhat, and it
ms to need reminding that if it wishes universities to conue, students (potential members of the war services) as
_ well as soldiers and sailors must be housed.

The matter cannot be palmed off with glib admissions of
_ its seriousness, vague phrases about “something” having to be
_ done “before long,” and a comfortable lapsing back into the
te of social semi-consciousness familiar to all too many

_ college students. The client is here now and will not be talked
_ out of court. Students who arrive next year must be housed
_ and provided with eating-places. If they are not given some
assurance of these provisions they will not arrive.

as
__ As has been said so often, so dolefully and yet so truly in

Pod
|

j rity
a, | .
7 % hy

.
i

out flourishing democratic society where the individual’s circle
of consciousness encompasses so narrowly himself and his own
_ affairs alone, what is needed is a little leadership. Given that
6 ye can cooperate almost as well as the “collectivised” peoples.

at th

Ub

ope, nay we pray, that our duly elected representatives
their next meeting look past their ever-absorbing budget
_ to a matter of student government’s responsibility.

2 ae
Ney a

re on: HOW COULD YOU USE A POOR MAIDEN SO?

a
Da

 

* __A letter has been received at this office from some unsnown co-ed suggesting that unfavourable publicity has re_ cently been given to Dalhousie’s female pupulation. Consider_ ing the close approach of Sadie Hawkins, we do not wish to
So ve anyone the idea that the Gazette is lacking in sympathy

for the fair sex, but space does not allow us to print the letter.
main point of the letter is that at least some Dal co-eds
r going with members of the forces for the simple reason
they are more sincere and courteous,, but that they would
ad to attend college functions with college boys and did
ntend to discriminate against them at all... _ Personally

ver took the thing that seriously. |

> vo thee

ae

Tete 5 , r Pegs eee ei Vile ihe
ae an 1 Ss 1. tite Ne aead oe recy
ae he Nw aay = Lf afl. Fae si
sic || Gazette.
ee ‘ BERS ee nee te }

n the days when there was student government here, and

t about the hopes of action this term? The above quota
=

   

The G

O native tongue, thou humble instrument

That soundeth out my countrymen’s
own song, J

Thou, filled with subtle meaning,
mayst present

The noblest conceptions of the
throng *

To kindred hearts. The highest and
the best

Thou dost convey to lowly ones, as
well

As to the learned, who thy sway
contest,

And in the ancient tongue would
cast their spell.

But only when arranged in ordered
ranks

Thy cadences and nodes so interspersed

As well might coax the ear to turn
with thanks

From Virgil’s voice to oral beauty
graced

In melody harmonious with the soul;

Then, if thy music right instruction
bring

To some who struggle upward to
life’s goal,

O lowly native flute, thou’lt truly
sing.

Within the grasp of thy fair eloquence

The goodly substance of my fertile
mind.

May well be carried by thy music
hence

To feed the hungry hearts of humankind.

O, noble native tongue,
thee I’ll play

The song to free this land from
Satan’s sway.

through

Thus mused the noble shepherd in

his youth,
whole intent

breath aright

Upon a home-made flute; to sing the
truth

He knew with so much beauty that
delight

His audience it must; to thoroughly

Instruct them in divine philosophy.

His to spend his

The shepherd lived apart within his
cot,

Nor mingled with the throng he
hoped to sway.

Companionship he had with those
who sought
Upon the kindred

play.

instruments te

Canadian government toward universities in general we) Full many were the days in study

spent

The courses may perhaps be changed | That he might know the best of

songs before,

And many were his trials to invent

A greater melody than those of
yore.

Most pleasant were his tunes; his
gallant songs

That told of Virtue’s conquest over
all

Temptations that would lead her to
do wrong;

His threnodies that wept, yet held
in thrall

With mighty truths
beauty voiced;

His hymn of Christ’s glad birthday,
fitly sung

When all the folk of Christendom
rejoiced ‘

That God’s dear Son had dwelt the
meek among.

And many other melodies he made

But none attained the grandeur he
assayed.

in rugged

O shepherd bold! Thy youth hath
told thee not

That much beside the tune makes
up the song.

What man whose heart was ne’er
with sadness fraught

Can comfort those that sorrow overlong ?

Can he who never faced temptation’s lure

Instruct another how to turn aside?

Who knows not love, nor hate, nor
thoughts impure,

Nor sin’s revenge, nor spite, nor
haughty pride,
Nor all the lusts of flesh that would
ensnare,
Nor how to overcome them each,
that man

Is quite unfit to show another where

Or how to mold his life into God’s
plan.

Musician, thy sweet tunes have
stood the test;

Experience will teach thy soul the
rest.

ee reaver al i | rt
’ i a ee /
J F fy an ee eee ba
es

AS

bewih of M

NN eee eee OE eee ES SS se
ee

 

etn a Ma selena roe, Cie
ra Be % ee a b i ~~ -— i ie
ib 2 e 1" _ Ae : A
- ; [
7

 
 

 
 
 

—S

=

ilton

Till now the shepherd chose the way
he trod.
His purpose kept his footsteps strait
within
The narrow path he
the sod

That beckoned him away to wanton
in

The empty pleasures of the thoughtless throng

He seldom ventured; knowing well
the joy

To come, when finished was his perfect song.

The pleasure of success is no alloy;

Its metal has the weight of purest
gold,

And value by its measure truly told.

willed; and o’er

A bugle call disturbs the placid
morn:

The din of fife and drums arouses
day.

The shepherd doffs the soft cloak
he has worn

And leaves the pleasant limits of
his way.

What use a home-made flute in time
of war?

Its gentle notes hold sway o’er
gentle minds;

A song of beauty will suffice no
more.

The shepherd, roused,
bludgeon finds.

The passion rude, unbounded hateful rage,

Demands a soldier, one who will
engage .

To make sharp combat; one who
staunchly stands

Avenging blows
hostile hands.

a fitting

from vengeful,

So long his life had followed on its
course,

So long his way submitted to his
will,

That when he mingled close with
brutal force *

He found both hand and voice adjusted ill

To cope with enemies more crudely
trained.

Necessity soon forced him to adopt.

New tactics for the fray; and so he

gained

A sbhriller, harsher call. His cause
he prop’t

With ugly weapons, barbarous and
uncouth.

Yet through the conflict, even at its
height

When he was hardest pressed, the
noble truth

Of his long cherished principles, and
light

Of knowledge gained by labor, still
shone through,

Their ardor dampened as the grass
with. dew.

(To be Continued)
A POX ON POETRY

The poets of our time indeed

On how to write are not agreed;

For some of them the art consists

Of making clever twists

Of noun and verby and adjective

That to the line a rhyme thus give,

Oh yes, indeed, the rhyme’s the
stuff,

The rest is rot—but not enough.

es

 

Another sort, with borrowed words,

Stol’n from many a long dead wight,

To greet the rosy dawn with dancing toes, ,

Are wont, as when the purple night,

Reclining on a fleecy cloud, gives
way

To all the nether-flying birds of day.

A goodly gang are those who give

Apt alliteration’s awful aid

Surpassing praise, in simple song

Maintaining it, like marmalade,

Joins gently sans divergent jars

The lilting lyries by the lutist
played.

And there are those who do not
wish for rhyme;
Whose lines must uneven be,
Whose thought wonders like a roe
Driven by a splintered fan,
or something else.

Opium fumes are most clearly
sniffed, or cocaine—maybe.
Ah, but then the whole is worth the

part,
Which an almond-eyed Arab
Can entrance within his caterwaulshell,
Bidding the homey penguin go.
Q. E. D.

* ¥
‘at 17

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

.!
a at a ini » 7 :
F } ave ier ea Ferry y ¢
P , r oe .
' Bote eit eee eo Pate, 2
- ——— —— _ ee een Jin LE Se a ee
— — —_ : =e
- > — _ sr =F-a 7 = = — % iG en
7 ee eee 7 se fa iF x
” wa = i ae oe j
fy a i) 1 ter =
i AP a ‘
. . 1a
ra d : .
nt

ra

  

    
  
  
  
 

 

ic

IF THE DISCUS THROWER COULD TALK—
"I'm going to throw this thing away and have a Sweet Cap.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“* The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

 

   

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED
C

 

     
   

  

 
 

HALIFAX

   

Nova Scotia

        
      

DRUGGISTS
Headquarters for Students
ASK FOR Requirements
DONOVAN’S Oo

     

BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S,

    
     
  
  
 

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!

  
   
 

 
 
 

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 
  
 

Birks and Gifts

These two words are a
“natural”! Sixty years
of serving Canadians
have brought a wealth
of experience to Canada’s national jewellers.

   

Before any Meal

or * 2- @

After any Show

    
   
    

Think of ...

The
GREEN LANTERN

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

   

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

  

Dalhousie Gniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

       

Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B. Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

  
    
  

Graduate Courses of reco nized standi :
of M.A., M.Se , nding, leading to degrees

 

 

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

 
  

 
   

  

The Professional Faculties

. . . in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

  

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

. average about $160 ear.
in the B.Se. course, 5 ; a

about $190 a year.

   
  

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

  

    
 
>
a.

fe and turn the records over.

; ag

ae. Dccaiie the river Flumen, or*finding the gloves for your Uncle.
; BM _ to teach you to differentiate easily between the various languages you are

a a

‘ !

yt ngus

Sarr

"Amongst the More Inevitable and Intriguing Courses offered by the
3 sity, the most complete selection is to be found in the field of
, both Foreign and Domestic. In no other branch of Learning

ue

F does ic Bode University extend itself so fully, for it is Rightfully

Reasoned that everyone should learn to speak at least one Language.

a To this end, then, the Official Calendar offers a Truly Remarkable Selection; extending from Old Norse and Middle Scots (English) to the In-evitable Latin, French, etc.. Let us, then, examine the many languages

given by the University, and the Devious Benefits to be found in their

_ pursuit.

_ he chief function of any Language Course is, essentially, to teach
_ you to write Sentences about such practical, eyeryday happenings as
This is

likely to encounter. Another function of any Language Course is to

_ teach you to read out of a Crib without detection, and is thus Invaluable
Fe Training in many post-Collegiate activities.

Of all the Languages offered by the University, Latin is probably

one of the most Unique and Unedifying. Although it is assumed that

_ all Students are adept in this language by the Official Calendar, it is
FP Helistioasty set Forth that all must take Latin, if they don’t take some
_ thing else. This is, of course, a hangover from the Dark Ages, when
_ Latin was the only language anyone knew, could say their prayers in, or

anything. Since that time no one has had the heart to inform the proper
Authorities that Latin is no longer in current use, and all Universities
Invariably Include it on their curriculum.

Phe Course itself {in Latin) is ecsentially histarical, and is thus

of great interest in this way. It is generally accepted, however, that these

historical facts are mostly Myth, and thus one of the ultimate benefits
from Latin is a huge store of Mythinformation, to be used in later cultivating a good sound English Style, after the fashion of Milton. Thus,
Latin, though Classical, is properly an Essential Part of the Complete

_ College Education.

Nobody will deny that one of the most Effete and Fascinating |
Languages is German. At present German is merely an Intriguing |
Course, but it would be wise to investigate this Class now, before it

_ becomes obsolete, and therefore Required and Inevitable.

otherwise.

German is intriguing in many ways, the chief of which being that it
is the only University Course which can be taught solely by mechanical
means, requiring only the assistance of someone to wind the Gramophone,
This advance over the old method of merely
reading the stuff makes German a truly Intriguing and Fascinating

French is probably the most difficult of all Languages studied at the

_ University. Essentially it is a course in Self Strangulation, for you will

discover that French can only be spoken with one hand in the Mouth,
feeling gingerly for the tonsils. The object of all this is to get you in
the proper frame of mind to pronounce French, which will be duly demonstrated by the instructor, with appropriate contortions, nasal and
It is also interesting to discover that there are several ways

in High School, though this should take nothing from the Interest in

the .elass.

For the same fee, it is possible to enroll in several other Courses of
Language, including Old Norse and others, but you are warned to be
carefal since they are all merely English in disguise, intended to lure
the unwary into further pitfalls, having scraped through English 2

cee

_ However, for all interested parties, further information can be secured

by asking the proper authorities.

Invaluable, then in the formation of our Well Rounded (Educa
oi tionally Speaking) Individual—the Complete College Man, are the many
ae

Languages which are taught by the University, and, since they are Ineyitable anyway, you might as well resign yourself. Cum grano Salisa.

Dear Cluntie Etfie:

Though I try to answer letters as promptly and as sincerely as
possible, there seems to be a great deal of misunderstanding over
my efforts. This, however, must be due to narrow-minded people who
fad to appreciate the trouble I go to to answer their letters.

 

aes hae a
Dear Miss Vera Crumbs writes to say that she took my advice and

*

_-visiwed the Silver Slipper, but the Air Force recruit that she obtained

sort of left her, shall we say, flat. This, my child, is indeed a pressing

_ dear, as we also have an army and navy.

problem, and I am deeply concerned. I really know how badly you Hau!
girls are faring and I do want to help you, although I ean’t wish you off
on any of the poor, unsuspecting male students. Try the S. S. again, my
Then let me know if you don’t
sueeeed.

*  *

x *

%

My next letter comes from the Hall, where Miss Nancy Berringer,| Pete McColough, 3rd year Science:

the dear innocent child, wants to know what to make of her fellow resident, K, “Robinson, accosting a stranger in Eaton’s and making a tele
phone date. Scandalous, isn’t it, my dear, but. then I imagine that you) “Moose” MacLeod, 3rd year Law:

will have to attribute it to the war. It is funny that there were no service
men around. Tell her to try the Anzac Club, as some girls have found

this the solution, according to dear little Norrie D.

We Me

a

Mr. J. Ross writes to ask a statment to the effect that he did not
supply the information on a recent New Glasgow item. My dear young
ae all my information comes from signed correspondence from which

I publish the signed names. However, I would consult A. MacIntosh,

though I wouldn’t be hopeful.
sd *  %

* *

Well, my dears, I must leave you now, this time for two weeks,
as I believe the children from the Hall are taking over next week.
I hope they won’t murder this page, but be patient with them, and
le old Aunt Effie will be back two weeks hence. I hope the Babes
will not include this column, but if fate decrees otherwise, I refuse
to accept any responsibility; I’1l have three weeks to undo any
damage. Warningly,

4
Se 7
ae aS / i :
is ii . i ‘
: \ r
: ra
a 7 ’
4 ek 207 . "i :
A 5 . ’
o i.
.o
‘
r
,
f
J
i i ( ‘

 

 

‘Sport Spits’ bemoaned the wounded
Elk as he picked up the Gazoot. I
am Galled. I die”. Instantly, however, the Gazoot was snatched from
his hand by the hungry Fastman,
who had now broken his fast and
had exhausted the supply of pingpong balls, watched by the Edittur
with a gaunt and hungry look.
Instantly, however, the forces of
the Gazoot were united by the sudden appearance of Wilbur P. Fizzleque, backed by Major Hokum and a
mass of the O Pee Chee. “I am”,
declared W. P. F., “the new official
censor of the Gazoot. It is to me
to bring up to a high standard of
the Gazoot.” Furthermore it is
necessary that my picture should
appear, as last week I have said”.

“In whose name indeed is the
Gazoot to be lowered to your high

Episode 13
Galling all Gr-r-rs

Nothing could be seen in the
Gazoot office except the extending
heads and other parts of Tank Farsight and Jahn Gaunt as ping pong
balls were being thrown around
widely. The hungry Fastman was
eagerly devouring these as quickly
as propriety would allow. It was
all the doings of Galling Schmidt,
who could be seen madly hurling
printer’s ink at the astonished Foldwell, who was engaged in replacing
it in the proper place.

Far from this battle-scene two
weary worn-out wabbling warts
were making wready to return to
Halifax—the rapacious Elk MacLoud and the heroic Drooley Mouthinwash, who were week-ending in
parts unknown, namely Cape Breton.
The dismal drone of the driver’s

; ; standard”, demanded the irate
wie —, ehrough ot ee Edittur. “That of PROKOV”, hissRee eas ee eee SOM OENS | Ag Hokum, raising his hands in a

the city beside the sea, commonly
unknown as the east coast Canadian
port. The advent of these warworn worthies could not long be delayed; the anguished calls of Fastman and Gaunt and Farsight would
not long go unheeded.

“What have you done with my

| petty gesture of defiance. “Off
| with his head”, screamed Foldwell,
a and the whole situation speedily began to deteriorate.

How will Rufus fare at the feet
of frowsy females? Come and
fee for yourfeltf.

 

k

 

 

 

 

 

 

Overheard on the 2nd_ Floor,
Thursday Nite; ‘It’s a Boy, it’s a
Boy!” Must have been some Phone
eall, Norrie, or was it just a thrill
to hear a male voice again.

* ®

Nobody can acuse Bob White of
being in a rut. We notice she has
switched escorts again. We wonder
how long Les McLean will last. We
understand that Hagen’s chesterfield
was also quite popular last Satur
Bob Murphy’s interest in his labs | day nite.
is increasing to the extent of chang- Matec
ing the periods. Too bad that you
couldn’t influence him before Xmas,
Doshie.

Any resemblance between the Original March of Grime and the Female version of Next Week is purely
coincidental, and all references to
persons living or dead will be purely
incidentai.

lin

[PSQuaRe

What’s this we hear about Wiswell singing that ditty about “Mary,
Mary, quite contrary”?

Will somebody please introduce
Johnny More to Stella, ’cause he’s
pining away to a shadow.

We can state definitely that Wilcox will proceed from Dal to Tech,
it seems that he is sort of “tied” to
that institution.

There’s a rumor about J. G.’s O.
and O. coming down— you’d never
think it; first Kay, then Elaine and
now Geraldine—tsk, tsk, you’re a
bad, bad boy, Sparky!

You have to hand it to guys like
Lantz. Anyone who’d stay home to
study English 2 when he could be
out with Gwen, well-l-l.

Who knows what (or who) caused
“Hank” Johnson to be so mixed up
last Sunday. Can’t you concentrate
Doug, or were you?

Could anybody tell us why Winterbourne and party were seen
proceeding along a downtown street
when the dawn was breaking?
(Note: We hear that Norman’s is
open 24 hours a day).

Just a little off the record—Why
does Warren Fetterly go ’round
mumbling “Gee! She’s wonderful,
and she’s not a red-head—she’s a
strawberry blonde”.

Garrick

HA Famous Players Theatr
Sat. - Mon.

cy ae

Is Sue getting forgetful, or is this
approach No. 3. After all, Sue, a
lipstick, overshoes, hankie, and a
purse seems a little more than pure
co-incidence.

 

*

We hear that Henry Reardon is
back in Aldershot again. This spot
will sure be popular, what will Millionaires at Acadia, and the Army in
Kentville. How about that, Bunny?

Eo at ;

   

We just can’t seem to get anything on Johnny McInnis. We suppose he and Marie were just at the
Nelson the other nite for dinner, but

who knows.

* * tt

The Nelson seems to be a popular
place these days. Leah Thomas
payed a visit there on Tuesday nite,
and Rettie the Sunday nite before.
It’s too bad they can’t get together,
but maybe Auntie Effie could help
them out.

D.O.P.E.

Dal Organ of Puerile Enigmas

 

ARE YOU A SLAVE OF LOVE?

Fred Russell, ist year Engineering:
“Undoubtedly not. Not Canadian
love, anyway.”

sean Cameron, Ist year Commerce:
“What? How can you be a slave
of love, that is, if you don’t love
him? Hey, what am I saying?”

“Not that I know of. Why, do I
look like it?”

“Not necessarily a slave—a devotee.”

Kay Hicks, 4th year Arts:
“Yes—self love.”

Bob Blois, 4th year Commerce:

“If you believe in the impossible
you can be a great lover.”

“Bob” White, Ist year Science:
“Yes Iam. I am in love with
someone who isn’t in love with
me.”

Johnny Maclean,’ 3rd year Sci. Eng.:
“T don’t know, it’s not a bad idea.
The nasty truth is that I am
afraid I am.”

Helen McKay, 3rd year Arts:
“Ask me sometime when I know
that you aren't going to write it
down.”

Whiz Wiswell, 3rd year Eng.:
“Yes, so what? Why, are you?”

- Tues.

“49th PARALLEL”
Edgar Kennedy Comedy

“OIL FIX IT”

Wed. - Thurs. - Friday
“WHITE ZOMBIE”
“SCHOOL FOR HUSBANDS”
and Exclusive Pictures of
Russian “Red Army”

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee eee ee ns

a

mS
‘—_. ©

  

         
    
      
     
    
 
    
  
   
     
   

    
   
  
  

     
  

Pine s Picobac spread such acharm above him,

That even stone must come alive to love him,

  

    
      
   
        
 
 

    
   

@ She is wise who plays her “Galatea” to a man
who smokes Picobac. He is sure to be contented,
For the pick of Canada’s Burley crop is always
a mild, cool, sweet smoke. And economical!
In fact, to amend R. L. Stevenson, “No woman
should mafry a man who does not smoke

Picobac.”
also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

   

    

        

   

 

     
     
    
  
  
    
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
  

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH « 15¢
1%-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN - 65¢

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F, X. SEXTON, President

THE

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

CUT FLOWERS, ete.

from

THE FLOWER SHOP
B-7133

RIDING HORSES
FOR HIRE

Ls “ogi “—

AT

BOWER RIDING STABLES *

Located Next to Point Pleasant Park

Excellent Bridle Paths —No Escort required

For Appointments Phone TOM MURPHY, Stable Master
B-7062 STABLES ON BOWER ROAD

ORPHEUS

Mon., Tues., Wed.

OXFORD

Mon., Tues., Wednes.

“SWAMP WATER” Dr Jekyll and Mr.Hyde
“SATLOR IT .
S WITH WINGS Seattergood Meets Broadway
© %

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“TRAGEDY at MIDNIGHT”
“OUTLAWS of the DESERT”

Thurs., Fri., Satur.

Birth of the Blues
LADY SCARFACE

 

    
     
     
   
  

The New

CASINO

*

Starting Sat., Feb. 14
*
“The Shanghai

Gesture”’

*

“SERGEANT
YO 99

WITH

GARY
COOPER

     
   

GENE TIERNEY
WALTER HUSTON
VICTOR MATURE

JUNE
LEDIE
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   

- . x
ae ete ae

re as a <a ’
a \ iy ¥ e -s i.

= eri

on. Ec Ss Play
Fixture Anyway

mr
Tigers, in defeating the Air Force ig a 26-14
won won their fourth straight game of the City
ague, and continued their string of undefeated,
Ss. rn in taking the fixture, the Bengals looked
‘good. Whether because of the unorthodox style of
ad by tthe visitors, or whether it was just an “off” night
he gold and black, it was difficult to tell. But the t the Tigers

Hockeyists Have —
Hard Hoeing

The Dalhousie hockey Tigers are
having a hard time finding their
E “second wind” and first win in the
5 At half time, by dint of close| College Service League. In their
_ checking, the Ralston squad held a! first league game to date, the BenP: ; 14-2 advantage on baskets scored by | gals were taken to camp by the St.
‘Wilson, Smith and MacLeod. With) Mary’s sextet, who hung a 5-2
He the start of the second half, the air-| trimming on our own collegians, and
a: Pi mee to creep up on the colle-|jn an exhibition fixture last week,
ea: gians, and at one point were only/| they also lost to Acadia, their arch_ six tallies behind. But a nice long rivals, by a 6-8 score.
ri e _ shot by Forsythe, and continued sal-| However unproductive the season
: g lies by Smith and Wilson, again) has been thus far, as far as victor_ established the Tiger lead, and at} ies are concerned, the tea mis sowes _ the end of the game the score-keep-| ing to much greater advantage than
) ers book showed Dal: 26; Air Force:| it has in the past number of years.
For one thing, there is an added
i i ‘The game was rough from begin-| scoring punch, which fills a long
ning to end. It was marred by two| wanted need in the Dal offense. In- i hibitions of temper and fisticuffs,| dicative of this is the three goal
he a ‘as a result of which Russ Webber | drive put on by young Evans in the
_of Dal, and Wolman of airmen, were | Dal-Acadia game. In the St. Mary’s
. - banished from the floor by referee game, Tiger scores were made by
ie a _ Bev Piers. Bob Blois and Marty MacDonald.
ny a In spite of the fact that Dal came} This ability to register goals will
ge up with a win, it was hoped by all| undoubtedly become more pronounc_ that the Tiger brand of play was!ed as the season wears along, they
no foretaste of things to come. For| must certainly come up with a win.
while every team is entitled to its} The failure of the team to win
“oft” night, in the run of a season,| any games to date has been the
the brand of ball dished up by the! lack of condition of the team membee and black quintet was not of} bers, due to a want of practice
senior calibre. In forthcoming games | facilities. When a team is not in
B _ there will have to be a decided im-| shape, it can rarely play three full
_ provement, or Dal’s hope for a City | periods of rugged hockey—and the
_ League Championship will most cer-| result in the Tiger instance has been
tainly be thwarted. that the team faded badly in the
E Dalhousie: McKenzie; Forsythe, 3; | third period of every game, and the
McLeod, 7; Wilson, 9; Webber, 1;| opposition thereupon proceeded to
be — ie 6; MacDonald. sew up the contest. But both de
ha) Their passing.

ae eas ak and their play generally |
£ ragged. It was not the type of exhibition the gallery expected from

re the. potential champs of the City

     
   
  
  
    
 
 

  

 

E y

¥F
Pe

pe
eer ae

lar | fence and attack are based upon
| Pa ee sound physical condition, and unless
ier % ie ockers Whoop it the gold and black six round into
Nae shape very shortly, this season will

fs a beth Up In City League hardly be more productive of hockey

laurels than was last year. And
a What the Dalhousie Basketball} jast year the Tigers won only one

oe ee are doing to the City Basket- game. t

ball League should be a joy to every! But with Evans working on a line
_ Dalhousian, old, young, or indiffer-| with Fraser and Wilson, and Russ
_ent (as most Dalhousians seem to| Webber and Dooley MacIntosh belt~ be). Not since 1934, or thereabouts ing them on the defense, while Hen__ have gold and black hoopsters come nigar kicks them outi in the nets,
j up with a City title, but this seems | tho Tigers are a paper threat to
. ae be a new year for the Bengals. any hockey club. Whether they
For Burnie Ralston’s cagers have) oyt to be anactual threat or not
a been undefeated and untied to date,

 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 

depends entirely upon the enthusabe having won al Ithree of their league! iasm that the boys demonstrate in
_ games, and a number of exhibition! the next few weeks. Their recent
tilts besides. Twice the Navy has practice appearance against the
. succumbed to Tiger court power in| shore Patrol, which boasts the serb a league contests, and both times by| vives of McConnell, Perowne, et al,

ne lop-sided scores. It is significant] ¢ormer Montreal Royals, indicates
that in pre-season predictions, the! that the Tigers have the makings.

Sisal
re so-called “experts” had discounted For the score in that fixture was a
Dal as a threat to the Maritime
eh title: won last year by the Tars. The

close 5-4 decision for the sailors—
but they’re fast company.

How to Make Sadie—

, SRA te. ttre of writing, the Ben- (Continued from Page One)
. gals appear to be a sure bet to land (8) With a disgusted look on
in ea place in the final league your face tell her that you smell
a ding, as two of their remaining liquor on her breath and that you
ae nuns with Acadia, which has| Will never go out with her again.
: _ been beaten by ‘both the sailors and If she hasn’t slapped your face by
- the airmen. When playdowns roll this time it should be interesting
oe around in a couple of week’s time, listening to a girl alibi for a change.
| it will probably be Navy who will (9) Pull the old cold trick upon
se attempt to oust the Tigers from the leaving the dance. It is always
_ greatly-coveted championship. Dal-| Comfortable riding in taxis.
: housie : supporters are freely predict- (10) If she isn’t ready to knock
he ing a Dalhousie win, and vengeance | YOUr teeth down your throat she
fe fat for the striped quintet for the trim- will probably take you out to eat.
* _ ming they absorbed last year from| And this is the time that her weal| the Navy artists. thy father will come in handy.
_ As far as the Dal hoopsters are| (11) Order the most expensive
: rned, they are making no pre- | foods and leave most of it on your
dictions. But in workouts there is| Plate. Butt your cigarets after one
a quiet ‘confidence which indicates | °F two drags. Complain about the
| No if Burnie Ralston’s footballers | fo0d in an audible voice.
win a City championship, then (12) Suggest that she play the
s basketballers can do it too. And|Pin-ball machine. Just as she is
it sik f course, nothing will be definitely | #bout to amass a winning score,
ae lecided | until thi eschedule is com- Tipe against the machine and tilt

 

arene victory was a Tiger
w the Air Force, again by
agi margin of 33-19.

 
  
  

   
  
    
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
     

K the ns Tigers will have an
other: sealp pinned to their belts| pie

- Wannz Basketball Cubs continue unwinning streak by dropping hoop

decision to Navy Intermediates,

 88—34. Doig, Hicks and Fraser
star°for Dal.

 

af

Wi jin

be fulfilled, however, for the com
eee PEN fect
rs

is

ee st rere Py es res A475 4

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Fourt — Straight
SPORT Chice

By AL iT HOD

      

 

   

 

This week, as a prelude to the co-ed edition of the Gazette,
which will be forthcoming at an uncertain hour next week, we
give some prominence to the co-ed sporting sphere. For, although it may be news to many, the daughters of Dalhousie
are this year engaged in a greatly expanded program of sports,
as drawn up by the D.G.A.C. and supervised by Phyllis Wray
Barrett.

In the sporting columns of this humble sheet the unwary
reader will undoubtedly have observed that the Golds, the
Blacks and the Reds have for some time past been engaged in
the form of court murder known as girls’ basketball. And this
week-end, at 6 a.m. of a Saturday morning, and despite the
after-effects of the Junior Prom, Dal’s bemuscled belles will
pack their cudgels and be off to Acadia, where they will meet
the Axettes in an exhibition tilt. Among the athletic lovelies
who will make the trip are Laura Bissett, Mary McKeigan,
Anita Rosenblum, Anita Reid, Marg Morrison, Inez Smith, Kay
ditto, Vera Crummy, and Doshie Stairs.

Dal co-eds have never in the history of a living Dalhousian
won a contest from the Acadiaettes, but there’s no better time
than right now to make a beginning. If the Bengalettes will
only throw their weight around more than somewhat, a new
era will have been inaugurated. For having once tasted the
sweet fruits of victory, they’d never again be. content to accept
defeat.

If the not-too-perspicacious (and please mister typesetter,
spell it right—it took us long enough to think it up) reader
has come this far, perhaps he’ll stick around long enough to
hear a word about badminton. Because Jack Matthew, Marje
Parkes, Phyl Barrett and Clyde Sperry, who are organizing the
mammoth badminton tourney for next Monday night would
appreciate a little attention. In other years the Dal Badminton
Championships have been determined over a period of weeks
or even months, and it often developed that many a scheduled
match was never played. This year, the zealous quartet abovementioned have planned one big evening of badminton, at the
conclusion of which champions will be declared in Mens’
Doubles, Womens’ Doubles, Mens’ Singles, Womens’ Singles,
and Mixed Doubles.

_ How to enter: Run, do not walk, to the bulletin board in
the gym, and sign your name. Then on Monday night attire
yourself in any old badminton cutfit, and get out on the gym
floor, prepared to sacrifice all for dear old Badminton. It’ll be
a lot of fun, no matter what your ability-rating is, and you
might even pick up a few tips, or a championship, mabe.

* *% xs He

Our concluding plug is for old Mount Allison and its
students, who could well do with a few dollars for rehabilitation purposes. Their athletic teams (especially the girls) are
sacrificing many of their scheduled trips, in order that the
money may be turned over to the Students’ Assistance Fund.
Brother, can you spare a few shekels for a worthy cause?

Medico, Coms, Win

Interfac Fixtures

mercial men, headed by Del Gibson
and Len Mitchell, were never ones
| to leave the issue in doubt. At half
time Law was on the gloomy end
of a 17-6 score, and while they outscored the Commerce artists by a
slight margin in the second half, at
no time were they a real threat to
take the game. Mitchell, Gibson
and Ken Boite scored a 26 point
total between them, more than
enough to surpass the Law total of
22 points, in which all the Law
players figured. Sandy MacDonald,
“Junioy” LeMoine and “Dooley”
MeIntosh carried the brunt of the

ied indy are Si a play for the Forrest men, with Ted
& Sine Rettie, Ken Jones, Laurie MclIvor

gineers. At half time, with Fred Forbes providing the sup
 

In regularly scheduled games of
the Interfaculty Basketball League
played last Thursday evening, the
Meds defeated the Engineers by a
24-21 score, while the Commerce
took a comfortable 30-22 decision
from the Lawyers.

MEDS V. ENGINEERS: Led by
the great Joe Cantwell and the
hustling Sol Green, who tallied
seventeen points between them, the

sted Ie a eat | Paranesreneth. yet King wh
5 : tallied four points for Commerce,
the sawbones gang. But with the also showed up well.
start of the second half, the T- Commerce: Matthew; King, 4;
Squares swung into action, led by) Ogilvie; Boite, 6; Mitchell, 10; Gib“Mac” Campbell and Verne Graham, cae aN.
and by outscoring their opponents! aw: McDonald, 6; Rettie; Mclvor
19 to 12 in this half, came within Sanaa: Os LeMoine 6: Bate 9:
an ace of copping the contest. With} \orntosh. 4. are Nee
the score all tied up, however, and The Shia were refereed by
lyon a few moments left to play, “Yank” Forsythe and “Lightning”
Clary Fraser sank one of the two MatKenzié
foul shots he was awarded, and
Gordie Bethune came through with
a field goal to sew it up. For the
Meds, Cantwell, Green and Fraser
did the scoring, while Bethune set
up the plays. Engineers’ great effort was in the hands of Campbell
and Graham, with Wiswell doing a
great supporting job.

Meds: Stewart, 2; Fraser, 3;
Green, 7; Perlin; Bethune, 2; Cantwell, 10.

Engineers: Campbell,
son; Hall;
Hubley.

SENIOR oe

Perc.

1.000
500
250
-250

Navy

i)
wwono™

11; MatheGraham, 8; Wiswell, 2;

Naugler’s
Orchestra

 

Law v. Commerce: Immediately
“havior to the playing of this fixture,
the Lawyers were credited with one
win and one loss in league competition, without ever playing a game.
Both fixtures had been awarded by
default. The higgh hopes held by
the jurists were destined never to

C]

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032

 

eee a eee Tat
: + & for” ict d [™
: wee ey - * 5

. " oo es
* — P a a > ee r+?
. : Que = es x ‘ im i *
i Ty = om ako G y Fe oD lel a © PP Cai ed BU a
' 2 ar ry
mae

 

February 13, 1942

 

 

complete ) i ;
OUuCiee a aT MLL ae
‘Coca-Cola,- os ae
UCL WL :

 

    
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
  

There’s something pleasantly exciting about icecold “Coca-Cola”. Deli
cious taste that charms

Rte
cr oe

)

, and never cloys. Refresh. ment that brings a happy
es : after-sense of thirst con$j tentment. You trust the
quality of the real thing
33 “Coca-Cola”,

   
    
   
  
  

You trust its quality

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

HALIFAX
604

 

You're missing a lot if you
haven't tried Philip Morris
Mixture, today’s greatest
value in pipe tobacco.

In pouches, packages and ’2 Ib. tins,

DALHOUSIANS:

for your

TOILET ARTICLES
MEDICINES
PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES
KODAKS
CIGARS

YOU SHOULD PATRONIZE

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

  
   
      
  
     
     
    
   
    

on SAE cm

490 BARRINGTON STREET
LORD NELSON HOTEL

STUDENTS!

MAKE GORDON B. ISNOR’S
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR

OVERCOATS
FURNISHINGS

  

    

SUITS SHOES

—and save on every purchase by taking

advantage of our Special Students’
Discount. at ..

GORDON B. ISNOR’S

69 Gottingen Street — Halifax, N. S.

 

 

  

    
