 
 
   
   
 
 

 
  

A
mi an
? *

   

q ll f , .
S oti
f

   
   

   

_ Plan now to take in the basketball game next Thursday evening
. when the Dalhousie Tigers will
tangle with the Royal Canadian Air
Force. Admission by student counceil ticket. Excitement guaranteed.
The gym, on “basketball night’ is
_ still the best place to meet your
& friends, both male and female. |
ae 'Shirreff Hall please note: now is the
time for all good shirruffians to
come to the gym and holler for dear
old Whoosis. Don’t let down the
boys with the funny legs.

    
 

    
   
   

 

 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 

—
A
ru

 

 
   

 

    
 

 

,CAMPUS
CLIPPINGS
Si BY DON BLACK

ie We had a look at the burned-out
“™ men’s residence at Mount Allison
. during the Christmas holidays. Only
the bare stone walls are left standing and workmen are knocking them
down: bit by bit.
~The wooden inside structure of
b _ the residence is all gone; some mortar, a lot of stone, brick, and the
occasional steel girder remain.
- Mount A. will not rebuild until af_ ter the war, according to latest information. ~ Residence facilities for
“> some of the men are to be estab| u: lished in the Brunswick Hotel, a| b
5

Secretary of the C.C.F4 and Angus
MacInnis, M.P., for Vancouver East,
are to be in Halifax January 14th
and 15th. While here it is expected
that they will be able to speak to
Dalhousie students at 12 noon on
Thursday the 15th. Place of the
meeting will be announced later.
Both Mr. Coldwell and Mr. MacInnis are well-known to Halifax
audiences. Mr. Coldwell spoke in the
Gymnasium last winter and was
favourably received. He is recog- |
nized as a national leader of con
well known as a student of labour
problems.

 

large wooden structure near the

_ campus, but in the main the male Mt. A. Disaster |

- students will board in Sackville. |
' One consolation they can have is Shocks Dal |
;. that they will not have to pay Hali- |
' 4, fax rates for room and board. Pera haps Dal male students could pre- .
pare a little booklet on “How to Extended |
. Treat Landladies” or “The Art of! It was with a sense of shock and
if Extending Your Reach Over Any! a feeling of deep sympathy that the
| Table” and give the sister college | news of the tragic fire which gutted
| lift im this crisis in their affairs.| the Men’s residence at Mt. Allison |
| eS ay oe University just before the Christmas
The “Varsity” from Toronto has | holidays was received by the stupresented a very timely and pointed dents of Dalhousie. At a time when
| edition depicting, to the minds of | most Dal students were immersed
_.. the editors, how an edition of their| in their studies in preparing for
__ paper would look if the Nazis suc-| exams, the word of the disaster
» cessfully blitzed Canada. The stories,| reached Halifax. By reason of the
_ pictures and “testimonials” are turn-| fact that many of the post grad
\ ied out in the best Goebbels style.) students at Dal in both Medicine and
t ey intended to give compla-| Law are former graduates of Mt.
» gency a swift kick, the Varsity | Allison, this University has a very
oy Staff accomplish their aim most. close connection with that institu© successfully. | tion.
{ _ During December the St. F. x, | Set on a hilltop overlooking the
¢  ©-0.T.C. has been held up in both Town of Sackville, New Brunswick,
__ the local and Montreal press as a Mt. Allison has a proud and dis_ fine upstanding unit and the only | tinctive history. Founded in 1840,
» one that trains on Sunday. The first | the college has received many set___ ¢laim has good grounds. St. F. X.| backs but has always managed to
_ ¥ camped next to Dalhousie when we | emerge with a renewed vigor and
were at Aldershot in September, | determination. Thus it is that after
940. They were an artillery unit this, one of her worst calamities,

Deepest Sympathy |

 

    
 
     

   

oe 3
then and have since shifted to in-| Mt, Allison once more turns her
_ fantry. To our inexperienced eyes face grimly to the task set before
_ * they seemed a good outfit. her and proudly proclaims that she
ae This Sunday training claim, how-| will carry on as usual. Many of
, ever, sticks in the throats of those the male students will be boarded
__ members of our own unit who have) at the Brunswick Hotel which has
_ spent part of Sunday each week re) been purchased for that purpose
past two or three years in C.O.| while accommodations for the reparades and lectures. In 1939-| mainder are being provided by the
cties lectures, and a long-re-| townspeople. | Arrangements had
red “scheme” at Purcell’s | been made before Christmas for the
re were held on Sunday. (We Dal and Mt. A. Basketball teams to
ia > yet to find to where those play home and home games. Dalae raduate companies disappeared. ) . housie Basketball enthusiasts are
a Last year and this parades were inclined to the view that the recent
@ and are y for those tragedy will in no way effect. this
‘March. and are eagerly looking forward to

our) the proposed matches.

 

  
  
  
  
 
   
  
       
    
      
    
 
  
   

 
 

 

im“?

waa ; w4 e raed
' ’ AM ’ ) “e e° 4 = i
RET ole
; E . 4° FP

Mr. M. J. Coldwell, M.P., National

| industrialist,

ae

   

e nf
ft

t
'
Se is

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 9, 1942

  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
 
 

 

Mr. John Grant,
Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear Sir: 
action of young people.

non-smokers.

all male students.
Yours sincerely,

 

CASTING FOR

GENEROUS GRANT

siderable stature. Mr. MacInnis is TO MED SCHOOL

REVEALED

During the Christmas vacations it

Dean of the Dalhousie
School that the su mof $5000 had
been donated to the Medical School
by Ray Lawson, prominent Ontario
to be used for the
teaching of surgery. Mr. Lawson, a
native of London, Ontario. is well
known in Halifax through his association with the Royal Print and
Litho Ltd. and the Maritime Paper
Products Ltd. He is president of
the firm of Lawson, Jones and Co.
of London and is a director of the
the Royal Bank of Canada.

Atpresent Mr. Lawson is devoting
much of his time to war work. In
the capacity of a dollar a year man
for the government he is president
of the Federal Aircraft Ltd. His
son, a physician, is on active duty
overseas.

Mr. Lawson’s splendid donation
was gratefully received by the
Medical School and will be of great
assistance in the furtherance of its
work.

 

Arangements Under Way
Interfac Basketball

A schedule for Interfaculty
Basketball is being prepared to
include the following teams:

Medicine, Law, Commerce, Arts
and Science, Engineers, King’s.
It is planned to play two games
each Thursday evening from 7.00
to 8.00. If, for any reason, anv
of the above named faculties feel
unable to enter a team or are not
agreeable to the hours stated.
please communicate this fact te
Red Payne on or before this coming Monday.

Will the manager of each team
also see Red and leave his name
and phone number.

The attention of the Post-Grads
is called to a meeting to be held
on Wednesday at 12 noon.

erate |

- Heart Palpatations

*Will Present Sophie Kerr’s

 

 

Wanted

Dalhousie University, HALIFAX.

The Student Health Service would like to make a
study on the effect of cigarette smoking on the heart
For this purpose we would like
to do electrocardigraph tracings on one hundred students
who smoke excessively (ten or more cigarettes a day) and
compare’ the findings with the tracings of one hundred

We would like to start this work on the week of
January 8th. Any student who wishes to volunteer will
kindly either report to the office of the Student’s Health
Service, or telephone B-8438.

For accuracy of comparisons we would prefer to have

(Séd.) C. W. HOLLAND, M.D.,
Director Student’s Health Service.

  

GLEE CLUB ANNOUNCES

3-ACT PLAY

“Big Hearted Herbert”

_ . The Glee Club sprang immediately
|into action with the start of the
New Year with the announcement
that casting for the three-act play

; _was announced by Dr. H. G. Grant,| “Big Hearted Herbert” would comMedical |

mence as soon as possible. The
| play, which Owen D. Young de| seribed as “A comedy of laughter
and inseparable tears” depicts the
trials and tribulations of whimsical,
hen pecked Herbert, a self made
business man who insists that his
family be brought up in the plain
traditions. When his daughter becomes engaged to a Harvard man
and his wife has not only ice
cream but Harvard men to dinner,
Herbert nearly goes out of his mind
with rage. Herbert’s home becomes
safe for Harvard men only after his
family has embarrassed him by embracing his plain traditions literally.
The sight of his wife in an old
wrapper and a supper-consisting of
Irish stew and apple pie destroys
this curmudgeon’s resistance.
There is a cast of thirteen; seven
males and six females. Don Kirkpatrick, President of the Glee Club
| urges that all those with any his_trionic ability apply to either BarSea Sieniewicz or himself as soon
as is convenient. The Glee Club
_hopes to be able to maintain the
enviable reputation which it has
earned in previous years by its 3-act
_ productions. To do so, however, it
needs the full support of all those
| who have an interest in dramatiecs

 

 

The date of the production has been |

_set for sometime about the middle
of February. Also on the Glee
Club’s. program for this term are

process of construction.

Attention! Midlothian!

| Will the members of Midlothian
| please arrange to get themselves a‘
| the Hall on time next Mondav (even
| as early as 4:15 if possible)? Miss
_MacKeen is going to do the book,
| and I think it would be an act of
| courtesy to allow her enough time
_to give her review adequately. Tea
| will NOT be served to Jate-comers.

 

three one-act plavs which are in tke |

pa ae Te

"ST emma” al aS, ee ee

 

No. 11

 

n Red Cross Effort

University Resources re

|Co-Ordinated In Charity. Function: |

| DATE SET FOR JANUARY 23 7
| TRANS-CANADA C.B.C. HOOKUP. EXPECTED; »

PRISONER —

2

At a meeting of the Students’

Council held on Thursday evening
the final touches were placed on the
| preparations for the Red Cross
Dance which is to be held on Janu_ary 23, in collaboration with other
| Universities across Canada.

According to the best available
| information, each of the major Uni| versities in Canada will hold its Red
| Cross Dance on that night, and arrangements are nearing completion
to have the CBC extend radio time
for a Trans-Canada hookup, broadcasting for a few minutes from each
University.

The Dance is to be handled here
at Dalhousie by a capable committee consisting of Ken. Jones as
| Chairman with Inez Smith in charge
‘of advertising and Jack MacKenzie
NE pe idea eal a: abate many Dak in charge of decorations. These will
| housie students to learn that P.O.C.| © aided by the general committee
| Walter Murphy was reported miss- | of Louise Bishop, Web MacDonald,
ing shortly after Christmas in air | Andy Dunn and. Don Kirkpatrick.
operations overseas, and is now a| Lhe dance is to be formal and will

| prisoner of war in Germany. Only 23 | be held in the gymnasium. The well

; | r 7 7 « T Tv
| years old, Walter was an M.A. gradu- | KDOWn and widely popular Navy
Band will provide the music for the

| ; ; a
ate of Dalhousie, having received this | . ;
affair. Extensive decorations are
being planned but their nature is

degree in 1940. Many Dalhousians |
being kept a closely guarded secret.

|
|
|

 

 

 

will remember him as appearing |
| prominently in a great number of.
extra-curricular activities, including |

All suggestions for the improvethe Gazette, Glee Club and the Stu
ment of the Ball will be appreciated

dents’ Council. and all those who wish to offer their
Before the fall of France, Walter | services will be welcomed by the

was studying in that country, doing | committee.

post-grad. work, and barely escaped |

with his life before the Germans Net proceeds of the above en
took over the town in which he was| tertainment will be given to the

living. He returned to Canada, af- | Canadian Red Cross Aer the hs:

ter a perilous round-about journey | Visionsand regulations of the War
. - oe . S58 , ”

and immediately joined the R. C,| Charities Act, 1939.

A. F. )

> Dip oO: 2
Your Man of The Year. (Outside the Campus)
Winston Churchill emerged from a not too varied heap to become the
Man of the Year. He had 70% of the votes. Scrambling for petty
other-place honours were personalities that included a general, a president,
a dictator, and a journalist (or something). Stalin with 15% came in
second, and last place saw General Wavell, Bob McCleave, and Franklin

| Delano Roosevelt tied together.

| x * *
Should Smaller Countries Be Forced To Join the Allies?
55% of those queried said a definite “No” “for various reasons.
Sticking up for principles, wouldn’t be Allies, and so on were negative
reasons. 33% said “Yes”, and the rest were doubtful. Among the af| firmations to the question was one that it should be done if expedient,
another that they should join the side they are on, and in several cases
even negative answers were partially nullified by excepting Ireland.
Choicest quotation—‘Shut the door as you go out.”
ASE bine ie

The Double-Barrelled Noneities of the Week

Were You Glad To Get Back? 52.8% weren’t happy at all about the
whole thing, 9.5% were doubtful (the next question will partially explain
this), and 38.2% shone with happiness or something (again see the last
| question). One had tears in his eyes and looked at Shirreff Hall. an_ other said “When I saw my marks I wasn’t”, and another a daring “No”.
| A few seconds lapsing after he breathed it into the stilly silences o7 the
night air, he said, “I hope I'm not quoted on that”.

aie Cape Te

Did You Celebrate During the Holidays?

20% did (er .. ) oh well, they did it anywav. 80% did not...
darn it, there’s those words again). One Eddy Allened, “Hello, Mom”
explaining that she worked in a college library that got this paper.

 

 

.

ee Ho FAs

a}
“7
ti

 

Pra tae
r ar, i

s
eee

———~ eT rh : 7a ca ee
’ , ey as
tie Ete es)
; ite! pte ; a ACR eat
* i 4 e : : ;
q ; by

Nova Sebtion Hotel

aa

a
=~

tedes

  
 
   
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

ig
aoe eee

 

Sal
1869— “The Oldest College Paper in America”
'd in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
assumed that they represent the opinion of
urdy Printing Co., Argyle St Halifax

GAZETTE STAFF
GRANT - 
B-8576

jitor: LOUISE BISHOP itor: Ll RISHOP

VID COLDWELL Manager: BOB McCLEAVE lager: War ore MACDONALD

er: DON OLAND - 
B-5043
B-8576
B-6568
B-8576
B-0453
B-9311

SS

ee eo .
+
ity
aoe
ore
L in

» ah
cae aN De

| WALTER MURPHY—AN APPRECIATION

The word that Walter Murphy is missing in aircraft
ns overseas came as a shock to his many friends at
ie. It was impossible to attend Dalhousie within the
'w years without knowing Walter, impossible to know
ithout. holding him in high regard and liking him
in common with many others, I have been proud to count
2x Murphy as a personal friend. It is not this alone,
, which leads me to bring his name into these columns.
} because I feel Walter would have something to say to
eliow-students at Dalhousie, and while it is sheer presumpon my part to attempt to say it, I do not wish to leave it
Valter Murphy always had a deep detestation for war, for
ster forces which give rise to it, for the autocracies
thrive on it, for the intolerances to which it almost in; gives rise. He was an individualist in the highest
with a deep-rooted hatred for regimentation and for
erence with honest thought and free enquiry. A friend
ne even said upon the outbreak of war that one of the
ts of it which distressed him most was the knowledge of
ain it must give to Walter. |
_ The thought which comes uppermost to my mind now is
that a war which could enlist the aid of Walter Murphy must
very big cause, too big for our petty profit-seekings and
lations, far too big certainly for hatred. Walter was not
ort of man who would enjoy a war. We must respect all
nore, therefore, the strong convictions which took .him into
than which few could be more distasteful. There is no
to think of avenging Walter’s misfortune. He is the last
on in the word who would want to see vengeance taken.
when we think of the amount of the contribution most of
students are making to the defeat of tyranny and ob scurantism in the world we are put to shame by Walter
Murphy. Surely this freedom for which he was willing to
_ Sacrifice so much deserves better than the complacent attitude
0 most of us.

iG

f

Walter is, fortunately, reported only as missing, and we
ye it will not be long before he is with us again, taking up
€ where he left off—an inspiration to others.

i i

5
~

es

fy c “
€

A SISTER COLLEGE SUFFERS

___ On this, our first opportunity, Dalhousie students extend
_ to Mount Allison its heartfelt sympathy for the recent destruction of the Men’s Residence by fire. In the past there has been
_ keen rivalry between the two universitis in sport and debating,
_ 4nd students of neither college have been slow in pointing out
_ what was lacking in the other. But, underneath this rivalry
there has always been a realization that Mount Allison and
Dalhousie are fighting the same battle, that of providing higher
_ education in a world in which it is still hard to get. Dalhousie
_ students will not be slow in acknowledging that the disaster at
Mount Allison is a direct blow to university education in the
 WLAYItimes,
____ Unfortunately the Mount Allison fire meant more than the
088 Of a building. Four students lost their lives, all of them
__ with personal friends at Dalhousie. We extend our sympathy
_ to their parents. We also extend sympathy to the rest of the
_ students who have lost all their possessions, for we know what
_ difficulty it will give them in continuing their studies. We hope
_ that it will be made possible for books and equipment to be
provided to those who cannot afford to replace what they have
| - No more deplorable outcome would be possible than for
umber of students to be forced to discontinue their college
ers. The world needs university-trained men, and war and
should not be permitted to disrupt that training.

TO YOU--A PROFITABLE NEW YEAR

___ The days in which we could wish “A Happy New Year”
are unfortunately past. They are always rather inappropriate
_ after the Christmas exams. Even in a university, however, it
possible to hope that some of you will find profit in the year

‘ich is to come. ‘

The examinations just past have inevitably brought a
“ss number of “plucks” with them. ‘This, as “The Mentor” would
_ Say, 1S one way by which the professors make their living. In

_ many cases these “plucks” represent the failure of really good

_ workers to make the grade. The time after examinations and

_ the beginning of a new term is, nevertheless, a good time for

all of us to take stock of what university education has meant

us. The college student is traditionally carefree, taken up
th a round of social activity, cut off from the world in which

_lives by a wall of his own making. This sort of “Joe

| Fis be tolerated in peace time, but just now he can2 at ord

Weary C.O.T.C.ers marching on frozen football fields may
ree with the statement that tollege students are a favored
rity. The fact remains that the world is faced with one
greatest crises in centuries. It is not our favoured treatat we have to justify, but our very existence. If our
ducation does not make us wiser, saner, and more able
e with life as it is today then something is wrong, and
erdict of many years of college education is likely to be
he fault is in ourselves.

“TWILIGHT OF LIBERTY”

by WATSON KIRKCONNELL

Twilight of Liberty” is frankly
propagandist, an attempt, the author
declares, to meet the lies of Hitler
with a clear statement of the cause
of the opponents of Fascism. Mr.
Kirkconnell believes that the war
will be won not by a mere emotional
hatred of Hitler, but by a mobilization of all of our resourses; economic, intellectual, spiritual.

The chapters of Mr. Kirkconnell’s
book are, it must be said, of very
unequal merit. Some of them,
notably one which consists of a
pageant on Canadian unity suitable
for mission bands, could have been
dropped with profit. The entire
first section is, indeed, taken up with
reprints from the author’s radio
talks and newspaper articles.

Mr. Kirkconnell’s gifts as a linguist are evident on almost every
page of the book. The author is a
well-travelled man, and gifted with
the ability to express very lucidly
what he has seen and experienced.
His account of experiences in various parts of Europe might be better
propaganda if the same story had

not been heard so often before, but

it is interesting reading nonetheless,
and rates well above the average
even as propaganda.

In the second part of the book
Mr. Kirkconnell deals more particularly with the Canadian scene. He
is convinced of the existence of a
well-crganized fifth column _ in
Canada, both Communist and Fascist.

In the third part of the book Mr.
Kirkconnell reaches his real thesis,
that to win the war, even to deserve
to win it, we must show a real
Spiritual vitality, a Christianity
which is not merely static. Fatalistic
pacifism is not enough, but neither
is hatred of the enemy. Intellectual
vitality, he says, is also necessary.
We must have a culture capable of
dealing with modern situations.
That will come from no superior
modern intelligence, for, states the
author, human brain capacity is
probably less today than three thousand years ago. It must come from
acquaintance with the knowledge of
the past. Objectivity in knowledge
is especially necessary. This can be |
gained preeminently from the classies, for we do not readily identify
our own situations with those of an- |
other race and age. It may, how-.
ever, be found in the study of sey |

foreign language, or in any field in
which we have no special interest
or prejudice to defend. Finally, we
are to develop a new literature of
our own, defeating the enemy on the
only ground on which he can be
met.

Mr. Kirkconnell is representative
of a certain type of Canadian sentimentalism which is distinctly idealistic, while reaching no very specific
conclusions. He deplores inequalities of wealth but seems to avoid
any reference to socialism, although
apparently favourably inclined to
social democracy of the Scandinavian countries (he mentions Norway
rather than Sweden). He is clearly
opposed to Fascism but devotes almost as much space to attacks on
Communism. He knows what he is
against better than what he is for.
For this perhaps, he is not to be
blamed. It is this lack of a positive
inspiration on the part of the democracies which has permitted the swift
rise of Facism. It is to the credit of
Mr. Kirkconnell that he has applied
himself to this difficulty, even if he
has not given the final answer. His
heart is in the right place, and his
book is worth reading.

THE GUNS ARE STILL TONIGHT
M. HYLAND

“The guns are still tonight,” he said,

The white faced soldier laughed
aloud.

He touched the bandage on his
head—

“They gave me this on such a night,

Who knows, come dawn, I may be
dead.”

Just then he heard a warning cry.

The wailing siren struck its note,

A plane was zooming in the sky,

And gliding through the darkening
clouds

It seemed to pivot there on high.
PS | | SS RL Se _ .

Its motor gave a deafening roar,
But wait!—another plane appeared
Perhaps ill fate has closed her

door—

Thank God! It was a British plane
It merged victorious once more.

“My lad, the guns are still tonight”

The white faced soldier turned and
said,

“T will n@t fear again their might

Because my heart will always
know—

The British Lion knows how to
fight.”

“BAROMETER RISING” |
By HUGH MACLENNAN

“Barometer Rising” is a novel of
Halifax during her most exciting
week in World War I, culminating
in the Halifax Explosion on Thursday, December 6th, 1917. Eight
days are involved in the story.
Sunday, December 2nd to Monday, |
December 10th. The spirit of Hali- |
fax and Haligonians at war is ad-|
mirably portrayed.

;

We are introduced to Halifax
through the eyes of Neil Macrae,
who has lived there most of his life.
He has “joined the army and gone
to France.” His friends and relatives believe that he has béen dead
for months, but he returns to Halifax still suffering from shellshock. |
Here he finds his uncle, Colonel
Geoffrey Wain, his commanding officer in France, who has had Neil
arrested as a scapegoat for his own
mistakes, and also Alee MacKenzie, |
the only man who can save him in
a courtmartial. The other import- |
ant characters are the heroine,
Penelope Wain, Neil’s cousin and a
ship-designer at the shipyards, and |
Angus Murray, a wise and cynical |
army surgeon who is in love with |
Penny. The minor characters are |
extremely well drawn in a few words |
and are very life-like. The story
moves skillfully and with gathering |
suspense until the climax is reached
in the Explosion. Geoffrey Wain |

 

and Alec MacKenzie are killed, but
not before Neil is cleared.

Even those Haligonians who are
familiar with the Halifax Explosion
will enjoy Mr. MacLennan’s vivid
and dramatic re-telling of the incident. Others who consider it in
detail for the first time will realize
with shock what horror has been
known in Halifax.

“Barometer Rising” is a welcome
and enjoyable addition to our all too

| small Canadian contribution to liter
ature. It is unique in that it is the
first novel to use Halifax as its sole
background. This novel could only
have been written by a person who
is thoroughly familiar with Halifax
—both with its geography and its
people. ;

The author, Hugh MacLennan is a
Dalhousie graduate. He was born
in the colliery distict of Cape Breton
where his father was a company
doctor. His family moved to Halifax in 1914 and so he was in Halifax
during the Explosion. Mr. Macl,ennan graduated from Dalhousie with
a Rhodes Scholarship, representing
Canada at large. He attended Oxford University, and later Princeton,
where he obtained his Ph.D. Since
leaving Princeton he has been teaching at Laver Canada College, in
Montreal.

We as Dalhousie students congratulate Mr. MacLennan on his
first novel, and wish him every success with his next.

FoR B.

Seana deren cla se ag a
The New Year will be profitable only as we apply ourselves

without too much waste effort to our

job here, that of getting

an education. That does not mean that we should give uu our

interminable “bull-sessions”’

and our hour-long discussions at

Roy’s. These may be an integral part of this education, a long

with football games and reading the Gazette.

The danger is

that we may spend four or more years here without thinking

and without meeting the world.

But I trust that we shall not.

To you, then, a profitable New Year.

“What's the most popular way to address an officer?”
“On a parcel of Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

. &
HALIFAX Nova Scotia

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED

O
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

O

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

IT’S NOT OUR

BUSINESS Before any Meal
How you spend your

Christmas money is, - Br oi

Strictly speaking, not
After any Show

our business.
pre 
We'd like to suggest,
though, that a gift
from Birks for yourself
IS a pleasant way to
use it.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

Think of ...

The
GREEN LANTERN

Dalhousie GQniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B. Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir, Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to d
of M.A., M.Sc, Z cio
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships,

on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation,

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a maa —"

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 
 
    
   
   

t
Py
Le tag

a

 

 

ee ‘Fo this point we have treated directly with the various Technical
ae

ie a P siderations which bear on this.

taking it in the future.

basis
is out, s
- yersity course which does this, with the exception of Philosophy 1, which

Bs brown, while the Orange is short, round, and red.
find yourself peeling something long and thin, be careful.)

_ Aspects of the Complete College Education, and of the many conide We have touched lightly on the
development of Technique, the cultivation of Professors, the care and
selection of Roommates, and many other Phases of University Training affecting the wellbeing of the Student. We should now glance
briefly into the Educational Advantages offered by the University,
and give a short exposée of the various Intriguing Courses set fourth
in the Official Calendar. This will be a source of enlightenment for
those taking the course, and consideration for those who contemplate

* * %* *

Of the many Intriguing Courses offered by the University, one of
most highly Entertaining and Educational is Biology I. Here, for the
stice Of a single course, you have the advantage of two Instructors. This
be overlooked in choosing any course, for this eliminates any
of getting thoroughly fed-up with the Instructor before the year
since the switch is made at Mid-term. This is the only full Uni
we shall discuss later., Due to this shift of Instructors, this course is

_ highly recommended to Co-Eds, for obvious reasons.

The many advantages to be derived from this course should not

<

be overlooked. One of the first studies taken up in Biology 1 is Osmosis,

_ which makes water rise in a tube. The reasons for this have never been

fully determined by Scientists, but its applications are of Utmost Significance, since plants thrive on it, making possible the effect of Plas
molysis, Sub-cutaneous Dialysis, etc. and producing the ever-present

Perspiration Stream, which accounts for the fact that Plants are always
eooler than the surrounding countryside.

But while all this is of great interest, and all contributes to the
Complete College Education; of much greater importance to the future
conduct of the Student is the Invaluable Advantage of knowing how to
Dissect things. In the second half of this course, you are presented with
yarious types of the Lower Forms of life, ie., the Frog, the Crayfish,
and the Worm; which you are expected to open, and examine thoroughly.

The Frog is. composed of a Skelton on the inside, a Heart, and all the
other apparatus which promote health in the Frog. It is of interest to
observe that, while the veins in a Frog are always Red (or Blue) in
diagrams, and the arteries are always Blue (or Red); such is not the
case in the actual Frog. Students are warned to be careful in this
matter, as it always leads to certain Confusion. Frogs also possess a
Stommac, and other digestive apparatus.

The Crayfish consists of a Skeleton, on the outside, a sort of a heart,
a Stommac, and is completely surrounded by Appendages. These appendages are all a development, due to some primitive error, which prevents the Crayfish from being a Worm. You can always identify a
Crayfish in this manner.

The Worm has absolutely nv Skeleton, being mainly Stommac. It
also possess innumerable Hearts, and other apparatus which are all
conveniently located in what the Biologists refer to as Segments. In this
way, the Worm resembles an Orange, except that it is long, thin, and
(Note: If you ever

During various intervals in the latter part of the course you will be
interrupted repeatedly by a new form of Quiz, known as “Orals”. Here
you are separated from your fellows, and exposed to various unidentified
and unintroduced portions of Frogs, Worms, etc, which you are expected
to know. To acquit yourself favorably before the Instructor, you will be
advised to pick a partner who knows less than you do, and let him have
the first guess. This will aid you in the second guess, eliminating one
possibility, and eventually one of you will guess the right answer. Since,
however, your partner guessed first, you are generally one guess up on
him. .
It is sometimes possible to divert the attention of the Instructor by
asking questions, such as, “Oh, is that the Sinus Venosus, I thought it
was somewhere else’; or apologize by saying, “That piece of Mesentry
got in my way”. This will shorten the number of questions the Instrueter can ask you in the limited time of the Quiz, and will be to your
advantage. (Note: If in doubt about anything, always say it is Mesentry,
and you will probably be right.)

Fiere, then, for the guidance of those taking the course, and for the
consolation of those who wish to take it, is Biology 1. All students will
be advised to give this course their grave consideration in picking future
classes, for it will prove invaluable in many other ways than described.
It is especially recommended for Pre Meds, and others possessing such
Insatiable Curiosity.

» Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

 

As soon as the disappearance of |ever that of John Gaunt, who had
the Prexy was known, a frantic | methodically taken up his position at

search was begun. Four coeds were the Polar Pie counter at Roy’s,

 

 

a. dispatched to distant parts of the| where he hoped to maintain a suc: an library to locate all the red flags | cessful blockade, having stationed
a that were available, and hoisting | Sammy Skunk and John Windebag
a these to the top of long staves, Miss| at the rear entrance to repel intan Henny placed herself at the head of | truders by such methods as were
i . the searchers. The lobster fishermen available.
q ne joined in, headed by Lester de}
f 2 Pester, who was clad in a neat \\
sailor suit with Admiral’s buttons.) ~ \\\\ s
[ De Pester claimed that Rufus had | \
r undoubtedly instigated the kidnap- : RR

___ ping and was in league with “PRO- | SA

= ROV", SW

Li 7.
i
rene ig it)

“Not so”, proclaimed a stormy

figure who appeared with a pack on

4 ee his back, “it is the forces of inter
Vin

| a Ps

;

“_

|,
bi
:

     

ay
am af
: as |
a

ae

: ~ national gangsterism, chiefly the
- ministerial association and Wubber

f We

Mac’ led”. The lobster fisherman immediately joined themselves
to his party pusued by the relent‘The most }

sractical scheme for
outwitting “PROKOV” ee how
‘

  

“PROKOV” had, in the meantime,
not been idle, but had been slowly
evolving a sort of sticky ooze. This
ooze was spreading from the Prexy’s
office and was gradually creeping up
the library steps, where is threatened to engulf Merry MacDeacon, who
had reentered the building after a
successful escape to rescue her

 

J

—_——
—_— =

 

The Christmas Holidays generally
cause a dirth of Grime, due to the
parting of the ways, but we are
happy to announce that our reporters kept us informed as to the
most interesting happenings over
the holidays, and that Misbehaviour
has not gone unnoticed.

* * °

We note that the most popular
Winter Sport so far has been Meeting Trains, and that many, like the
Toonerville Trolley, were quite busy.
Ask Betty Bird.

m

*% *

Moncton seems to be the Grime
Center this winter. We understand
that Dunsmore spent some few days
in that metropolis, but that Ottawa
will be the port of call this summer.

e * @

Norrie also appeared on the visitors list, flashing Christmas presents.
“Fido” Doyle was right in there, but
Mike seems to have the option.
Give us a ring sometime, Mike.

mt x *

Things must have been pretty dull
in Sydney, since Tasman could
hardly wait to get back, even
though the attraction was out of
town. “Penny” seemed _ excited,
however, and the show was a good

one.

* % me

To Whom it May Concern. Moose

wasn’t Lonely over the Vacation.
a % *

We were wondering if Hagen was
responsible for the Grave countenance on our Bob. Sue seemed to
be enjoying herself, however, in
spiteof it all.

x

Just after the exams, we were
gratified to see Musset and Quigley
doing their Christmas Shopping, or
should that read Slopping. They
practically disrupted Birks with
their attentions.

* * &

The Millionaires Ball brought many,
out from their Christmas retirement
We wonder if its’s Doug’s scholastic
weakness, or has Johnny really got

something there.

x *&

“Dooley” must have found the
Holidays dull in Sydney, though he

 

dawg. The defence, meanwhile,
made a thrilling discovery. Blurbie
Stewpot venturing in the vicinity of
the library, some of the ooze nearest
to him could be seen slowly turning
into mental fog. He was rushed up
to the scene by General Hard
Hearts, but as this didn’t seem a
complete success John Fastman and
D. Birdlegs Black were brought up
as reinforcements.

Just then a startling discovery
was made. Rufus Rayne came rushing to G. H. Q. to announce that
Wilbur P. Fizzleque could not be
fouud anywhere. Major Hokun
barked out a command, which sent
several of his lackeys climbing up
the gym wall, then another one got
them running around in circles.
Just then a calm figure walked into
the gathering. “I will take charge”
said the calm figure, who proved to
be none other than David Foldwell.
As Hokum and his lackeys gaped,
Foldwell produced from his pocket
a set of topographical maps, done
according to ‘the British grid system. Carefully examining these, he
declared it to be his opinion that
the Prexy was missing and that
Wilbur P, Fizzleque was the eternal
freshman.

“Produce someone intelligent for
me”, demanded Foldwell, upon which
demand the very walls of the gym
seemed to tremble and the circular
lackeys started doing reverse circles.
After much fussing, the general
Major produced Tank Farsight with
a chuckle. “Will he do?”, asked the
Major. “No”, replied the imperturbable Foldwell, and strode from the
room.

Where will this all end? Will
the Prexy be recovered or must
the University continue under the
sway of “PROKOV”? How much
longer will people speak to me?

FAL

  

dS

was hardly there long enough to
find out. Old School Tie still seems

to be the thing.

* * *

These Millionaires sure stick to
gether. Who should win the ticket

to the Sawmakers Sniffle but on of
the number. Such Co-operation.
x * x

We were wondering what Inez was
trying to sell the Airforce outside
Fader’s the other night?

x * *

Young Jean Cameron (never to be,
confused with Kissy) seems to have
made an New Year’s Revolution,
These Freshettes just can’t seem
to make up their minds.

He me He

The pallid expression on Ted
Retty’s face this time can be attributed to no other cause than he relieved himself of excess gore, to
the Red Cross. How can anyone
spare it in these perilous times?

Spoof...

He—Which do you like best; the
sentimental type of college boys
who want to neck, or the other kind?

She—What other kind?

 

What kind of dress did Betty
wear to the party last night?

I don’t remember. I think it was
checked.

That must have been a real party.

 

Officer: “So you complain of finding sand in your soup.
Private: “Yes, sir.”

Officer: “Did you join the army to
serve your country or complain
about the soup?”

Private: “To serve my country,
not to eat it.”
—Ubyssey

 

Jake—When are“*you going to let
me kiss you, dearie?

Babe — Come around Thursday
night, Passion Flower, that’s Amateur night. —The Brunswickan

OXFORD

Friday and Saturday

“DIVE BOMBER”

and

“CHARLIE CHAN IN RIO”

 

Raise a frosty bottle of “Coca-Cola” to your lips and drink:
Instantly its clean, exciting taste brings you refreshment
plus. And quality —the quality of genuine goodness ...the
quality of “Coca-Cola” — the real thing.

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

Saturday - Monday - Tues.

“RISE AND SHINE”
Jack Oakie - Linda Durell

and “PERFECT SNAP”

Wed. - Thurs. - Friday
“PROUD BARTLET”
Starring Paul Robson

“MARRY THE BOSS’S
DAUGHTER”

  
  
  
 

 

C

Friday - Saturday - Monday

Birth of the Blues

Bing Crosby

Players Theatre

*
Tuesday - Wed. - Thurs.
H. M. PULHAM, ESQ.

Robert Young
Hedy Lemar

 

 

Pométhée avec le feu du ciel alluma
Sa pip’ de Picobac, puis, enchanté, fuma.

@ Qu’est-ce que le Picobac lui-méme sans allumage?

Il posséde, il est vrai,

faut que vous le fumiez pour constater comme il a
bon goat, comme il est doux, frais, agréable.
Achetez-en aujourd’hui et vous remercierez en
méme temps Prométhée et les champs ensoleillés
du sud de I’Ontario du parfait contentement que
procure la créme de Ia récolte de Burley canadien.

 

HALIFAX

 

 

BLAGUE HERMETIQUE COMMODBE, 10c et 15¢
; BOITE METALLIQUE “"LOK-TOP” de 34 livre, 65
mis aussi

Pic

“ILA bon goat dans la pipe”

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wed.

“UNHOLY PARTNERS”
ROYAL MOUNTED PATROL

 

    
  
  

    
  
  
     
        
       
       
       
       
      
      
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   

 
   
  
  
   

   
  

Thursday - Friday - Sat.
“SOUTH OF PANAMA”
“KING OF DODGE CITY”

 

  
   

The New

CASINO

*

Starting Monday, Jan. 12

ree ellsapoppin ”

Starring

Olsen and Johnsen

“842 Laughs for Every
Customer”

 

VARESE;
saa IAAT. a v
wee

un arome délicieux! Mais il

  
   
    
   

en Boites Métalliques pour le Gousset

obac

   

Wii} i

iif

ea

 

 

 
0 f Mercy Strained

ie *
ig to

*

press the hockey situation seems

v] at of eddie, perhaps purposely, perhaps aco knows? Anyway, it is in a muddle.
im that no ice is available at the Arena for Dal
there are no teams to form a league, that the Dal
t interested in playing.

-When the Dalhousie Tigers tangle

| with a team representing the R.C.

bet at the Arena.
ds are_ still available.
the p

are ‘three. teams ready
eee a league, name
pi e fa ater. ia might
” me a such, would undoubt
-d it is Ge psatite perhaps
n time” during the evening

oe Paiboptthier
b ne have been miscal
SP ports proportionately ? ?

an favorite. winter sport

mer: a s of last year’s hoc: | are” still, on the campus:
acDonald, goal; Russ WebWeb” MacDonald and Dooley
~ os defense; ; “Bob” Blois,

as ee constructive just for
om f ae amaze one,

y bs Silene started this week,
now and cold weather also apd, which means that skiing and

z will have the uper hand for

er, Monday evening claim} the badminton enthusiasts, which
Deg ves” promise for a coming season
in that line. Several. swung their

Me ckets into action for a much
pede oe  Peneste, which is’ such a
ces: after the month of—in
ae ty?

Start chosing a partner for the
_ student tournament! It will be
‘ting any day now! Watch for

orms to be posted in the gym,
| enter your name along with
you ur partner's. —

With the first Tuesday night that
og get the Gym, we hope
t s start as previously reported,

fore S pbeom and listen for de
_ You'll be accosted any
“now, so. we can find out just

4 t you'd like to do in the “world
t Come on, start now!
earlier you begin the better!

jum Raney eo
here cS rumours ‘that the

pm e nt

game—for es = we
mistie again? | Just. ask Chris
ie et you “want to know anyabr basketball! eh’

| A.F. on Thursday evening next, it

©" | will mark the opening of the 1942

edition of the Halifax City Basketball League, This year the loop will
see four teams ‘in action: Navy, who
won the City Championship last
year; Dalhousie -Tigers, who were
runners-up; Acadia’s Axemen from
Wolfville, and an R.C.A.F, team,
which makes its first appearance in
senior company, in. .the city... Last
year the Navy squad of western
stars won the regular schedule
handily, and in the playoffs polished off the Dal Tigers in a two game,
total-scofe series. However, when
they travelled to Montreal in search
of the Eastern Canadian championship, they were eliminated in their
turn. |

This year the Navy entry will
lack the services of O’Hara, the
massive guard who was a pillar both
defensively and offensively, and will
also be without a number of other
performers of some ability. As a.
consequence the jack-tars will prob- |
ably find it more difficult to lead the
parade. Acadia will again produce,
it is expected, an accurate-shooting,
fast-moving, quintet. The Air Force
squad is a relatively unknown
quantity, but there is reason to believe that the airmen will come up
with a strong entry, drawing their
team from the large number of men
now stationed in the city.

Games in the Senior League will
be played in the Dalhousie gym on
Asa evenings, with admission
of students by Student Council
ticket.

An intermediate league has been
formed in the city with teams representing’ Dalhousie, Y.M.C.A., Navy
and Air Foree. Dal’s first game
will be played at the gym on Saturday night, when the Cubs take on
the Y.M.C.A. entry, one of_ the
strongest teams in last year’s provincial race.

The Dal Tigers this year will’have
4 strong entry. Of last year’s
team, Ben Wilson and Mike Smith,
guards, Al MacLeod, centre, and
Jack. McKenzie, forward, will be
back in harness, and new material
is expected to be found among Yank
Forsythe, who last year played with
King’s, Doug Hicks and Dawson
MacDonald, former Mount Allison
basketballers, John Frazer and Myer
Zatsman, both of whom have been
prominent in Dalhousie intermediate
sports.

 

ote ———

:
|
archery lately? We hope so. D
you see “Robin Hood”? Surely that |
gave you a hint of what archery is
like,

Campus Clippings -(Continued from Page One)

Numerous battallion parades have
also been held on Sunday.

Also for the information of St.
F. X. we might remark that our
reasons for Sunday parades are the

|Same as theirs, except in on par
ticular, “social activities” (Montreal
Standard) are not considered in the
‘military schedule and the Sunday
parades are held because there is
no other possible time to have them,
due to the academic work of the
students and military duties of the
instructors.
* * *

A column of “humor’— it collected
over the Christmas holidays—coming up next week. Until then—

in| There was a young fellow named |

“Starkie”, |
Who had an “affair” with a datkia: |
The result of their sins )
Was quadruplets (not twins);

| One black, one white. and two khaki,

—McGill ae

by AL. MacLEOD

In the event that anyone has spent the yuletide interim in
melancholy moping about the Dalhousie sport situation, we
hasten to advise them that if they are basketbell enthusiasts
they have fretted needlessly, but if they are hockey fans, they
have moped advisedly. For the best sources have indicated
that basketball is well under way for the season, and there’s
not a cloud on the horizon. But hockey seems to be the enfant
terrible of this old and respected sphere of learning. There
seems to be a doubt with respect to the question of whether or
not the gay blade will be donned for a few skirmishes of shinney in this coming semester. People are whispering behind
their hands that certain other people don’t want any hockey
this. year. Some others are beginning to think they won’t get
a chance to get their athletic distinctions this term. But by
far the greater proportion of the student body, with characteristic lack of interest, don’t care a’ toot of the five o’clock
whistle whether there is hockey, basketball, badminton, or any
other sport. . Perhaps, however, if the clamps were put on
every sport, there would soon be such an‘outery from all cor-.
ners of the campus that would indicate college or at Dalhousie is not dead, but only dying.

Perhaps, however, the people who have shown the greatest
concern over the fate of the Tiger hockey team have been
making much ado about nothing. Responsible persons, high
in collegiate affairs, have indicated that the - only hold- -up ‘at
this time is the lack of ice, and that when playing’ time is secured, the Service League (Dalhousie, St. Mary’s and Navy intermediates) will be started immediately. But these responsible |
persons are far from optimistic when one asks them to hold
the scheduled contests.

But a chap has scarcely settled himself into a state of
watchful and hopeful waiting, when, behold a hand clutches
the arm, and a serious voice haltingly states that the people

who tie and untie the money-bags want to abolish hockey alto- |

gether and make up the deficit that other sports are incurring
and that by heck they won't get away with it—no they won’t.

Frankly; this double-column blurb doesn’t know what to
think, actually, but it’s certainly lots of fun passing on a bit of
gossip now and then. It seems to be clear, however, that hockey shouldn’t suffer while badminton, basketball, ping-pong and
what-have-you flourish. No doubt the solons of the Students’
Council, in their glorious magnanimity, will see that justice is
done right and left, until we shall have so much justice being
done that we shall cry out for the old oppressions and a return
of the Filthy Fifteen to their old and accustomed pursuits.

Table Tennis
Tournament Held

Dalhousie defeated the Waegwoltic Club 22—6 in a table tennis
tournament held at the Waegwoltic
club-house. Wednesday evening. The
tournament is fhe first of a series
arranged by Prof, C. H. Mercer for

Badminton Carries On

Badminton competition at Dalhousie will re-open Monday evening
when the collegians meet the Y. M.
C. A.—Y.W.C.A. squad in the first
game of the new year. League play
will be carried on if separate squads
can be assembled. to make up the
Y and City teams. The fall league

the large number of club members
who have become interested in the
game. A winter tournament featuring matches with a number of
local clubs is in the process of formation. Junior members have become most enthusiastic table tennis players.

The Waegwoltic Club will meet a
nartmouth-Imperoyal group on Jan.
14, a team from the Y.M.C.A. and
Y.W.C.A. on Jan. 21, and one composed of members of the Dalhousie
Alumni Badminton Club on the 28th.

In the game played with Dalhousie Wednesday, the collegians won
every division by a wide margin,
with the exception of the mixed
doubles event, which was split between the two teams.

Men’s Singles: Bill Pope (D) d.
Eville Gorham 21-10, 21-15; James
Stevens (D) d. Stanley Smith 21-13,
21-16; John Devins (D), d. Robert
Jeffrey 21-6, 21-15; James Stevens
(D) d. Gordon Hart 19-21, 21-15,
21-18; James McLeod (W) ad. Bill
Harris 21-18, 21-15; Bill Harris (D)
d. Ken Jeffrey 21-18, 21-17; John
Devins (D) d. Robert Jeffrey 21-16.
14-21, 21-14.

Men’s Doubles: Colin Smith and
Bill Harris (D) d. J. ‘H. Trapnell
and W. Outhit 21-18, 19-21, 21-16;
W. Pope and J, Devins (D) d.
Jamie MacLeod and Ken Jeffrey 2115, 21-6; W. Pope and J. Devins
(D) d. Stanley Smith and E. Gor
|ham 21-16, 21-13; J. Devins and J.

Stevens (D) d. K. Jeffrey and R.
Jeffrey 21-16, 21-10; W. Pope and
C. Smith (D) d. K. Jeffrey and S.
Smith 21-19, 21-18; J. Stevens and

J. Devins (D) d. G. Hart and E.

Gorham 21-11, 16-21, 21-12; W.
Harris and J. Devins (D) d. K. Jeffrey and R. Jeffrey 21-17, 21-16.

Ladies’ Doubles: Pat Hollis and
Marjorie Parkes (D) d. Ann Saunderson and Kay MacKay 18-21, 2113, 21-10; Daisy Zwicker and Margaret Pope (W) d. Mary MacKeigan and Margeret Morrison 21- 19, |
21-17; Pat Hollis and M, Parkes (D)_

featured competition between these
squads and Dalhousie.
Prof. C. H. Mercer reports that

there is a great shortage of male |

players for the city squads and as
a result the available players have
to be shared to keep the league going. It is hoped that service men
er new players can be found to fill
in the gaps and keep the teams distinct in senior play for the Studley
Shield during the winter months.

Dalhousie will meet the City team
on the 19th.

d. D. Zwicker and
21-12.
Summary:

M. Pope 21-11,

Dal
Men’s singles ...
Ladies’ singles. ..
Men’s doubles. .
Ladies’ doubles. .
Mixed doubles...

Waeg.

TUESDAYS
* DPnded Lhujthen 2
Buckingham

_ CIGARETTE PROGRAM

| ” ROSEDALE NURSERIES ns i
Y.M.C. A. Building — B-7530

381 Barrington Street

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

31 Spring Garden Rd. — B-6440

We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience

Write or call for Calendar or advice to
F. X. SEXTON, President

RIDING HORSES

FOR HIRE
AT
BOWER RIDING STABLES |
Located Next to Point Pleasant Park. |
Excellent Bridle Pathe. No Escort ‘required.

For Appointments Phone TOM MURPHY, Stable Master
I) B-7062

@

8 easily separated cubes

of fine french-style chocolate

each filled with liquid golden
vanilla butter creme

a CC A een tins nine eg eee
B COS A

Compliments of

The Hughes Oi Co., Limited

MONTREAL

*

EVERYTHING FOR
THE DRAWING OFFICE

STABLES ON BOWER ROAD;

|
1

 
