 

 

 

» VOL. LXXIV

¥

 

DALHOUSIANS_JIVE

 

Red Cross Statistics

4

;

7

 

=

Vast Quantities
Of Material Collected
|

* +*

Hightlights of the work of the
Canadian Red Cross Society in Nova
Scotia from the First of January to
date, October 1941.

188,870 articles of Hospital supplies, knitted comforts and clothing
were made by the women of Nova
Scotia for shipment overseas, and
for distribution to men on active
service in Canada and Hospitals of
the three services.

81,723 knitted comforts and Hospital supplies valued at $46,000 were
shipped overseas for distribution to
men of the services and Hospitals.

34,000 items, such as quilts, infants’ wear, Men’s, Women’s, Girls’
and boys’ wear, etc., valued at $28,000. were shipped to England for

the comfort of the Civilian popula
tion.

119,006 articles such as caps,
mitts, scarves, socks, sweaters, etc.
valued at $94,040. were distributed
within the Province to men of the
Allied Navies and Merchant Marine. |

40,000 pounds of Nova Scotian |
Apple Jelly were shipped overseas. |

16,328 articles have been given to |
service men on active duty in the
Province and to Service Hospitals.

$40,000 worth of medical, and first
aid supplies, surgical dressings,
blankets, etc. have been stored in the
Province to be used in the event of
an emergency. Red Cross Emergency Committees have been organized in 18 centres.

Hospitals of all 3 services have
been visited each week by Red Cross
workers and the patients given
thousands of cigarettes, as well as
sweets, radios, books, magazines and
special treats.

 

771 newcomers to Canada were
met by the Port Services Committee
and given articles of clothing, milk,
tea, fruit, and cookies. Guest children coming to Nova Scotia were
given clothing and footwear and
other services provided.

A Blood Donor Clinic has been
established and the Red Cross in
Nova Scotia is shipping 100 donations of blood per week to be made
into dried blood or plasma for use
abroad or at home.

20,000 pounds of scrap aluminum
was collected towards Canada’s war
effort.

2,058 Branches of Junior Red
Cross with a membership of 66,233
are actively engaged in a three-fold
programine of Health, Service and
Good Citizenship.

79 persons received hopsitalization
and treatment at the Red Cross Outpost Hospital.

$2,000 was voted to the Dental
Trailer Fund to assist this worthy |
cause of caring for the teeth of our)
School Children.

1064 articles of clothing and footwear were provided to needy rural |
school children at a cost of $1,004 .

52 Home Nursing Classes were |
held and attended by 1153 persons. |

Cod Liver Oil, and milk, were pro- |
vided by’ a number of Branches to
undernouished children. Glasses, orthopedic appliances, special medicines, layettes, bedding and clothing
have been given to needy children
and adults. :

a
‘

For 1941 Impressive

e—_—— -
 

STATION CHNS TO
BROADCAST
DANCE 9:30 - 10:00
As an added attraction for the
Dance and to build it up as large
as possible in the public mind,
an attempt was made to have a
C.B.C. nationwide hookup with
each University Canada
broadcasting over at fer a few
minutes, Because of various technical difficulties, this was feund
to be ‘impossible and an: énterprising. cominittee “here -al Dal
decided that possibititves of  having 7the. dance: broadcast | over
CHNS should he: léeked into,
_ SAfter negotiations: «final. ar»
fangenvents. were: completed: on
Monday to have the Dance broadeast) fram =9:30- fo 1080
CHNS “thrauch. the Maritime
Broadcasting Company. ‘This. has
héens niade: possible throuch ‘the
Kind ¢o-aneratian of Major Wy.
Berbrett. manager of CHNS: Phe
necessary dines will, be ora in by
the: Maritime Telephone: and Telefreph Company. Thus more than
ever ‘itvis: meeessary for Dalhousians to make the Dance a success
in order to demonstratee to the
Maritimes as a whole the

across

over

way

in which this University can cooperate in a worthy cause,

Chairman...

 

W. S. KENNEDY JONES
upon whose shoulders has fallen the
tremendous responsibility for the
success or failure of the Red Cross
Dance. Ken is exceedingly well
suited for such a task having capably handled many large dances in
the past both at King’s College and
at Dal. To him falls the duty of
Seeing to it that each committee is
doing its job and doing it well. The
ultimate decision as to whether or
not such and such a thing shall or
shall not be done lies with him.

 

CHAPERONS—
Dean and Mrs. V. C. MacDonald
Dr. and Mrs: Grant
Dean Woodbury
Professor and Mrs, Bennet
Professor and Mrs, Bell

 

a
>
;
= eae yeah atin ape cpg enna ets np a isa faa fo cn ys hn a

Halhousi

 

“THE COLLEGE

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 21, 1942

 

ma EN ett teeny

GENERAL COMMITTEE
_IN GHARGE OF ARRANGEMENTS

W. S. EGR haem an Berme Graham—Tickets

Ine: St SPirbieity Don Kirkpatrick

Louise IiaROp Andy “Dinn

Jach MaptKengie—Deécoraticns

The poliey-ob the: Committee has been to-make as. quick money

for the [Ved Gross has pessibte, while holding expendifires ai
MID NU ee Re thie and tatents of may ofthe student beae have
been (ray Gpem.teuterm: the the General Committee, and the
nany suBSOm matiees which will msure the smooth tines this,

Pea pheno on le Neer Lr etapa

 

   

FOR R

<>
j

}
|

 

=<ette

 

 

No. 13

2 eo
EN ,

ED CROSS

First Dal F ornal in Gym
To Be Held Friday

NOVELTIES TO BE FEATURE OF BALL

The Red Cross Ball to be held on Friday, January in
the Dal gymnasium is being conducted by the Students’ Council
in conjunction with leading Canadian and American universi
     

») 2

kait) »

| ties across the entire North American Continent. The dance is

being sponsored by, and the proceeds are to be given to, the

 

 

Dalhous: See iPst’ Ree wGtogs Balk

wil have. been for neuchi;

history. of the’ University.
hours: of your, fe

This

Food | Donations
To Cut ‘Costs

Few realize) the: inimense- quantitics oF food mvolved ince. Dance of 
this\Size; /-Thiagine: sixteen: minds
OL Suiced ham, ater callous of ace

CPCS, Seventy bates ot rend | six!

peaunds chpéeanut huiter, ten dazen |

Beas;

and:
cakes ore thousand: hotties at scott

(rinks, oC iinet e cean nels

O¥er. RA thousand eookies

QF assorted foods.

Sound: 2 Gigs bepea hievrd dese
n'tit? But Qipsaeeeer ee bened ie
amount of (here nen nis
ed at the D @gSeynuneneeioescna tyne
keep expen Sage
be solicited Si =Gr ier esaietes:
This job of GRISGiieh=pnoreeelonon.
the sturdy BRGUIGetsebeuain fas:
man, “MoosSiisieepGnbeer rien a etagicn
Forsyth.

To date RES ePesiits tase ibeon
most gratif Reena bene. epee nie
amount of —RRRGEEe bres een
either prom igegeGrPenake sonic:
The commitigeaee eee: thet the
services of (ipa mEGnnOn nag mavesne
Doshie Stair SSeeigaeipeelenonss
ledged ¢

The food is all to be prepared by
the University Co-Eds at Shirreff
Hall on Friday afternoon under the
direction of Bunnie Morse, Betty
Bird, and Fran Webster.

this: \taust

TT rr

“Bank Night” to
Feature Dance

In connection with the ball. a
“Bank Night’ scheme has’ been
evolved which. will add a goodly degree of hilarity to the evening’s
entertainment. A great number of
“door prizes” are waiting to be won
by the holders of the lucky ticket
stubs, which will be drawn from a
hat immediately after supper. A
large committee headed by Don
Kirkpatrick has been busy during
the past few weeks soliciting merchandise from public-spirited storekeepers of the city. As a result, |
the holders of the lucky tickets may |
find themselves going home with |
anything from a bag of coal, a barrel of apples, or a free Turkish bath
to supper dance tickets or news- |
paper subscriptions. But we won’t |
tell you here what’s in store. You'll |
have more fun finding out for your
  

 

 

 

 

 

self It is sufficient to say that
“Kirk” has been on the job — and
it’s certainly going to be a lot of |
fun.

COM 1 (| GQ OWheH ts Stiniposed at every. Dalhousiati,, tesardies< 0!
fucull, Whether prefessor an student
nnportant johaor all: that is; to wake: this. ball -atsnecc<e:.
the student body will tally round, the work/of 2 greab many students
and
charities will ‘have: gone inassisted.
make Friday, from. nine till one. a night that will gn dewn im the

last Season:

pand Dhree Little Pies,

biPadabouse

‘Enereoremainge. but Ghe impo ant

The decision to held the

Ehis committee has the mest

Uniéss :
mere tact bhat the dancé

to cietate. the necessity
worthy

Pathonisians. und

ai’ Caratizn’s
So. turn-ort,

are most

may well be the happiest four
‘ DE ; withthe

the hotels:

be enewinbered
dance in ‘one of

DpiPo

}

e we
ots - + — . - re ¥ y z a
Your Favorite Tune Last Year
eo ae Re
She were, wncertain, «11% decided ‘ini -taver of the SOnatanodro
| Phoa-E hoo which therafore becomes “Dalkousie’s (Noimber. One. tune ot

behind: this: time with 716: of the

Tred for last’ place

wehe Eiimer’s Tune.

AL pyres! Naw

VOLES
yi "Ss

Were

(Nest): May) > South of ‘the Border, -Grem > Eyes,

Rock of Ages, Bringing in

er ee weet Song, Concerto in Bb (didn’t specify which

Nova Scotia branch of the Red Cross Society.

sall in the gymnasium and to

have it formal was made by the committee in charge only after
Peon couniGe ato Gnminenae arocuments pro and con.

The

fame 2 coast to coast affair seemed
eee ality.
ie eee s Much money to aid the Red
Sloe een er eemmnmmemed to cut expenses to a bare

And because the only

;

Pin ene ie Ceeimaneamse the oymnasium rather than
EXPEHs 
necessary to hold such a
it is the urgent wish of the
mommittee to assure everyone that

be

well as attractively decorated.

clean and warm as
Dur
me gym will

Bc the Christmas vacations the
2.0.D.E. held a very sucessful formBi dance in the gym and encounterad difficulties

@hich Dalhousians

none of the about

protest. Over

eseeven hundred people attended that

Paance.
awa: “| ;
. f a ’ -y 5 a Poaceae nt tha
May), in Mleven More: Months and Pen. More Days PEL Be OutOf Ths vil yiense mute to kine BMECSRS OL tin
eg Pied Cross Dance by turning out on
Sea tdeC; 7
: or Ee TN - es . . . 2 Is rid: V
Ve iicoimtenmomaP, Rose of San Antoine, It Happened in Sun |

Pvale i em meee This More Often,

i are

ees: Pitied Than Censored, and These Are The
Things t Jove:
‘outemaworite Movie of Last Year
Pee nnerereme. Then Major Barbara led with 10% of the

(er en ememmamoabye Mr. Chips, and Here Comes Mr. Jordon
Co eee ours, each having 6% of the votes. The folPew OMemeterimera heif of Bagdad, Parson of Pandamine, PhilaPeete wenvieeed Mr. Hyde, Northwest Mounted Police, Blood
[ie ene ete Memes mith (blush) Goes to Washington (Ottawa),
ie cee renee 122 poppin, Pinnochio and Pride and Prejudice.

Would The “March of Grime” Influence Any of Your Actions?

7.4% looked furtively around as they were dragged out of their hiding
places and asked this question. “Yes” they whispered before retreat took
place. However, the rest except for one answered “No” confidently, with
such remarks as Why should it? Even if I burned down Shirreff Hall

read it. One said, ‘‘Naw” and grinned with the confidence of an editor.
Only doubtful was one person who claimed he knew our reasons for

| asking the question.

 

Epicures Test Donations . .

 

In between duties, committeemen Tasman, Graham and
MacLeod take time out to guzzle a soft drink or two.

——@h. 2 3 .

ee

|

 

It is hoped that Dalhousians

For the information
those taking C.O.T.C., all
of the

night.

of cadets

may charge the cost dance

against their pay.

Among the features of the dance
Hour, at which

is almost guaranteed.to win

a Bank every
ticket
valuable
which will
their
divilual
novel

a prize; a
the

support

penny pitch,
students

their
number of
temember that you
can contribute to the Red Cross also

enable and
to

faculties:

friends inand a

dances.

by obtaining your corsage from the
Floral Booth.

Everything in connection with the
dance is being donated by merchants
and dealers of the city.
to feature a special window display for the affair. Peter Whalley,
a well know Halifax artist, has consented to contribute his services to
Tickets
are on sale now at all of the follow
iS

Eaton’s

the decorations committee.

| |ing place: The Nova Scotian Hotel,
they wouldn’t put me in (despair on face), and others said they didn’t |

The Lord Nelson Hotel, The Carleton Hotel, Blakeley’s and Phinney’s.
Don’t forget that it is your Student
Council that is putting this dance
over. To a large exent its success

|or failure will depend on the sup
port extended to the dance by the

| Dalhousie students themselves.

Attractive Gym
‘Decorations Planned

 

Plans are being rushed under the
energetic leadership of Jack Mac
| Kenzie to produce the finest set of

decorations ever to be in the
Dal gymnasium. The cooperation
of the Glee Club executive has been

seen

| enlisted in order to provide expert
| advice

the of the

department
the city are
order to obtain

flags, drapes and other implements

as to decoration
All the
and hotels

being canvassed j

stage.
stores

large
in
n

| of decoration. The services of Peter

Whalley, well known Halifax artist

| have been obtained to aid and give

advice. The exact nature
of the decorations has as yet not
been divulged but startling effects
are promised py the committee.

technical

  
 
  
 
  
 
 

ae - i mF. at i ie i > Va my ee bi et Teg i rien Pu inte peer eee
Cee eres A te ND po preter
2] r rer * a ays fr eek tA yt deal S 4 i) S ; if,
* : al i n ’ Le

ae
i! Pi ip tv
a 7 ov sapte i Ret
areert) oT ry % ¥

ALA Aheyis

 

 

 

 

 
  
 

E are those of

The views expresses
sent the opinion of

author; it’ canno
the Student Body.

 

  
 

  
 
 
 
 

gyle St., Halifax

 

 
   
  
   
  
  

Editor: JOHN W. - - B-8576
News Editor: A. - - S-2936
Sports Editor: AL - - B-8576

atures Editor: - - S-2597
Literary Editor: LO - - B-9746
C.U.P. and Exchange’ = - B-5043
Proof Editor: DAVID COLDWS : - - . B-8576
Laison Editor: WALLACE OGIL - - - : B-6568
Circulation Manager: BOB McCLEAVE - - - - B-8576
Business Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD - - B-0453
Staff Photographer: DON OLAND - - - - - B-9811

 

HASTE THEE, NYMPH

_We are not being asked to ’slurp through the mud in oversized mittens or undersized socks in the service of our country.
Nor does the Red Cross ask of us that we should sit down beside our fireplaces and knit the same. We are not being expected to go through any hardship to be of help to those who
have a rather disagreeable job to do. Instead, we are being
asked to go to a dance. Is the sacrifice unreasonable? Is
weariness of feet on towards the wee hours of the morning too
great a price to pay that mankind may be free, and our soldiers
mittened ?

Whether or not the hardships enough to send us to a
premature grave or leave us with an ineradicable hangover,
the powers that be are convinced that we will make the su
_preme effort. They have gone ahead with plans for a Formal

Dance on the.night of Friday, January 23rd, proceeds of which
are to go to the Canadian Red Cross. Believing as we do in the
self-denying spirit of the average Dalhousie undergraduate, we
share this*confidence that the dance will not only be held but
even make a profit. In order that this should happen, however, certain things are necessary. In the first place, it is quite
essential that some one should go to the affair. If you despair
about getting a “skirt’”’ to accompany you, clad as you are in a
borrowed tux, read the front page of last week’s Gazette, centre
column. This is required reading. For further information
try the Mentor of a number of week’s ago, indicating methods
of achieving social success. But bear this in mind. This is
for a good cause, and, even though you may be a freshman
(most people are forgetting this by now), you will have a halo
round your head if you appear in your finery, with the sweet
young thing you picked up on a blind date.

Kindly remember that there are expenses involved in a
dance, and that the profits do not begin with the first couple
which barges through the portals. A sizeable crowd is necessary if the dance is to be really a financial success. And since
this dance is not primarily for amusement, but is meant to aid
a good cause, financial success is the kind of success that really
matters. Even if you are not a skilful dancer, don’t allow fear
of stepping on other people’s toes to keep you away. For once
in their lives they will be charmed to have their toes stepped on.

In the second place, as any advanced Commerce student
will tell you, the profits will be greater if the expenses are less.
Needless to say, some expenses are necessary to any dance.
But there are many things ordinarily paid for out of student
funds which may be done by student labour. Every cent saved
an this way is as good as a cent offered for admission—better,
in fact, as couples will not be admitted for a cent. Already a
considerable number have volunteered to help the cause along, |
but the number can be increased without danger of inflation.

Last year a joint Red Cross-I.S.S. drive was made in a |
comparatively painless way, that of annexing the caution de-|
posits of gullible students. The result was that Dalhousie |
raised an amount second only to Toronto among Canadian |
universities. This year the payment will be by a method not
merely painless but even pleasant, tripping the so-called light
fantastic to the accompaniment of soothing or stirring melodies. The committee in charge will be disappointed if the response this year is not even more generous. It is true that
Dalhousie is an impoverished university, that decreased enrollment has seriously affected our power to raise a large sum of

_money, But this decline can be offset by increased generosity,

and who would say that we are really hurting ourselves by the
effort we are now making to help the Red Cross and other
useful agencies?

There is on the campus evidence of a genuine enthusiasm
which ought to help to make the Red Cross dance a real success. There is a feeling that the extra effort needed to make
a real contribution will be forthcoming from the student body.
Dalhousie students treasure their disagreements, but in this
case there seems to be complete unanimity. We are determined
to make our effort for the Red Cross this year a success. With

. such a pleasant way of carrying out our obligations, it would

be strange if we could not.

 

I.S.S. AGAIN

Last year the Red Cross drive against caution deposits
was linked with a request for money for the I.S.S. Just in
case students are wondering whether this cause has been
dropped from the list of Dalhousie’s oblizations we hasten to
say that plans are already under way to carry out a campaign
on behalf of (to spell it out) the International Students’ Service. Details have not yet been arranged, but it is certain that
Dathousie students will be asked to contribute to this worthy
cause.

For the benefit of those who are new to the university or
have never had a very clear idea of the function of this organization we will try to say something about it. The I.S.S. was
established after the last war in order to help students of wartorn countries to get back on their feet. In particular, it aided.
students among the huge band of refugees to continue their.
education. It provided. books for those still in prison camps,
helped others to get back to university. In China and Spain it!
rendered signal service. In this war it is taking up the same|
work again, endeavouring to assist students in internment “al

prison camps in this country and in Germany.

You will hear more about the I.

S.S. later this year. In!
the meantime,

it is well to remember that we have a responsi-|

bility for keeping the torch of education burning, that the wel- his party in the House of Commons
—have placed themselves on record

fare of other students is a concern of ours.

 

 
  

   

 
 

5 Lee ee oer eee oe + ~ nai “ ; ‘lat Ss 7 FH + so
wie ay bai ARIF (ere ra.) TA 1 A ae PRD cs a

IE GAZETTE

+ + +

Co-Ed Committee Members. . .

Sry

    

 

Shown above are Lousie Bishop, who is coordinating the
work of women students in connection with the Dance, and
Inez Smith, in charge of Publicity.

 

PARLIAMENT ON PARADE

By ALAN HARVEY

(Editor’s Note: Following is the | in favor of conscription for service
first of a series of weekly articles | outside Canada.
written for the Canadian University
Press from the Canadian Capital by |
Alan Harvey, Ottawa newspaper- |
man, who in 1939-40 was Sports |
Editor of “The Varsity,’ under- |
graduate newspaper of the Uni-|
versity of Toronto.)

Responsible cabinet members have
signified the administration plans
some form of selective service. The
crucial question seems to be whether
this will involve extension of compulsory service provisions inherent
in the National Resources Mobilization Act to include service on
foreign battlefronts, or whether it

a massive circular table in the East | Wil! call merely for a more compreblock offices of the parliament build- | hensive program of service in
ings important new decisions ap-| ©2724, including the drafting of
parently are in the making on the |e" for industry and farm labor.
issue of conscription for overseas | ———— service — and indications are the|]} ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Status of university students will | Y.M.C.A. Building — B-7530
not be affected. 381 Barrington Street

31 Spring Garden Rd. — B-6440
We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

OTTAWA, Jan.—(CUP)—Around |

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
 

The measures that have been or |
will be formulated naturally are |
closely-guarded secrets known only |
to the men directing government |
policy, and they are pledged to
secrecy. What provisions will be |
made for university students’ under |
new manpower legislation, therefore
is a hazardous guess, but the feeling
in weill-informed* quarters seems to |
be that present arrangements between universities and the Department of National Defence are working satisfactorily.

 
 
   
   
   

THE

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

  

 

From the known facts relating to
the manpower problem as a whole,
one likely surmise can be drawn—
that some far-reaching announcement may be expected shortly, probably when Canada’s 19th Parliament since Confederation opens its
third session Jan. 22nd.

If no declaration is forthcoming,
political strategists predict the
Green Chamber of the House of
Commons will become a_ battleground for heated discussion on extension of compulsory service laws.

Spurred by growing pressure
from political and private groups
for unlimited conscription, the manpower question has been under intensive study by the administration.

And some of Prime Minister Mackenzie King’s own followers — including at least three members of

   

For Throat Easy
Mildness — Smoke

Buckingham
Cigarettes

   

 

    

- — ote 1 5 agate . =
panera attra det SN ET FOS PTT STAI em Te eee one
Tet ee eray vo mY

   

. - a a - eS ae ;
eee sae aw ay Ph

January 21, 1942 ,

 

 
 

“Why can't you decide between those two boys?”
“Because they both smoke Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

 

- Faders Drug Stores Miol aad. Bolsuid

 

| 135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD LIMITED jon
| HALIFAX : N S i)
| HZ A) Nova Scotia ;
SE —— DRUGGISTS
a ae Headquarters for Students
ASK FOR Requirements
DONOVAN’S O
BEVERAGES

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
at DAL CANTEEN KENTVILLE, N. S.

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating .. . It Peps You Up!
@

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 

THE GENESIS OF
THE DIAMOND | Before any Meal

Science estimates that

the diamonds of South
Africa were formed OE id in
approximately six t y

million years ago, After any Show

Truly they have waited
a long time for man to
discover and fashion
them to bring out their
brilliant beauty.

Henry Birks & Sons |!
LIMITED

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

Think of ...

The
GREEN LANTERN

 

 

 

Dalhousie Gniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts. and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B. Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics; Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standin leadin 7 ;
of M.A., M.Sc. &, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

 

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance

the courses. and through

The Professional Faculties

am
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, av

‘ erage about $160
in the B.Se. course, about 5 sr reas

$190 a year.

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

pt ay

/. 224

     

 
 
     
   
 
  
 
 
   
 
    
    
  
   
 
  
    
   
    
 
     
   
      
  
   
    
 
 
   
   
   
    
   
  
   
 
 
   
    
    
   
  
    
  
    
    
    
 
  
    
  
   
    
 

 
 

BREED

re a Stude
“Thumbs Down”

ri ‘ iy =

on the wings of campus
; _ the burning question:
Wh hy are Shirreff Hall

Tacha in an effort to
e fre of the problem. The

See

Are you histatins the girls

oe ‘Hall, and if so, why?”
CT are

“prospect was backwoods

V fordsly, even though mas
di g as a student in the fac
er Dnroached: this mechavial busily engaged in kickfront out of a Wurlitzer,

ety tae his teeth with
oe shattered jute-box:
2 ih ain’t got no time for

Rat Well, I calls for ie,
id after I waits an hour for
aw, she comes down all set
xein g, when all the time I
s made, tordo some hikods. ‘What can a guy
th “jills like that? No, sir,
ja nes" ain’t got no healthy inthat’s my say!”
y * x *
t candidate to be asked
ndid opinion was definitely
Bi llegiate type, tall, and you
vhat, aaron in a passionate
irt en vermillion tie, who,

 
 

Ae pipe. His attitude was
nan pepe: superior. It was

  

“quite off the beam, dante
ink? This is a man’s world,
cn ow, and none of the co-eds
to. be brisk on the came

  

 
 

ile a began to clap
and cry, “Hep, hep” and

* *. K

| whom we found hunched
tet the light of learning

down behind. At our
, he removed his horni spectacles, creased his brow
4 7 a few mOIER ts, and

 
 

  

iS, Quite bei I pelibiad
ntum of her practical knowyea be pprerarin merely, and

 
 

  

quite tricomnlatent both with
precept and example. It is
sic lered opinion that the

  

1a or of the other

‘aeotine depravity, I should

e f constrained to say with

“A, woman is only a woman,
ris a

Fone || mn
8 of

Te rms

  

er left % him, oy oodane!
ered — s ideas on the subjejct
dle discussion was — clear.

 
 
 

  

  

“a
Mp Ne ve
Var ay aan
are I TE ¥

reff Hall i is Vanel

len \ fa. That Female Traits
nM Aasculine Escutcheon Grates

 

And finally we consulted the Theo
ologian. We found him practising
| the facial expression he would as
sume when next he was called upon to pray, and we didn’t find it at
all inviting. Nevertheless we took
courage and posed our question.
Over his face there came at length

_a look of mingled pity and resigna
tion.

“Vanity of vanities,” he said, “all
is vanity. Woman, thy name is
Vanity. I cannot condone,” he continued, “the carmined lips, the
purpled eyelids, the too -highlyscented hair, the crimsoned fingertips, the high-pitched giggle, the
thoughtless retort, the superior air,
the uncovered knee, the shameless
dress, and all the rest, ad infinitum,
ad nauseatum.”

He had much more to say, but all
of it to the same effect, and so we
left him to his facial contortions—
and his hopes.

oe the

These, then, were the opinions of
four —students all. The general
opinion seemed to be that Shirreff
Hall had been tried and found wanting, that the female of the species

was so deadly that the male knew
when he was well off, and stayed

far off. But what would be the outcome? Who would win in this grim
struggle? Would Shirreff Hall repent or would the Engineers, the
red-eyed Students, the Sophomores,
and Pine Hill relent? ~Time alone
could tell, and it would not speak.
But, in the light of past experience,
the odds seemed to be that in the
long run, when the weather grew
warmer, and Spring, with its sweet
enchantments appeared upon the
scene, the Hall would win. At least,
no bets were being placed, and that
was a bad sign.

W. S.C. F. Executive
To Address Students

aS

During the weekend of January
23-25 Dalhousie is to be honored by
a visit from Robert Mackie, the
General Secretary of the World
Student Christian Federation.
Students will probably have the opportunity of hearing him several
times—at a general meeting of the
S.C.M. Friday night in Fort Massey
Hall, at a Saturday noon meeting somewhere on the campus, at
an LS.S. meeting and at a ser* | viee in St. John’s United Church
Sunday evening.

Mr. Mackie (for those interested
in vital statistics) was born in Scotland, and still retains the burr and
wit characteristic of all “b-rrr-aw”
Seots. A graduate of Glasgow University and Trinity College, after
finishing his course in theology in
1926, he became secretary of the
Scottish S.C.M. with headquarters
in Edinburgh. From 1929 to 1938
he was General Secretary of the
S.C.M. of Great Britain; from 1935
to 1938, treasurer of the W.S.C.F.;
From then until the present he has
been the Federation’s General Secretary. For those who prefer adventure to statistics, Mr. Mackie’s escape from falling France in 1940
equals the most exciting “thriller”
with the additional merit of being
actual experience.

A bulletin issued by the S.C.M.
says: “All of us who have had the
chance to meet and work with
Robert Mackie in recent years have
quickly recognized in him a man of
extraordinary simplicity and honesty
of mind, of an undogmatized but
Fl ideeisly spiritual experience, of informed and sensitive social conscience, of rare personal charm and
friendliness—a combination which
has endeared him to student groups
around the world, who have recognized in him a man who knew their
problems, their language, their concerns, and who, though a leader,
ood beside them in cneepenting

ellows ah p.”

    

  

a) s

| with good

pel
mh ti; oe
me! ty be

tet ee

Founded 1869— “The Oldest College Paper in America”
RED CROSS ISSUE

 

His Honour Lt. Governor F. F. Mathers, who with Mrs. Mathers, has
graciously consented to patronize the Red Cross Ball on Friday night.

TRANS-CANADA UNIVERSITY

RED CROSS ROUND-UP

By DON BLACK

Of all the universities in this
broad land, the University of British
Columbia seems to be showing the
most initiative and drive to aid that
greatest of humanitarian organizations—the Red Cross. Since the first
of the year, the undergraduate paper, Ubyssey, has told of dances,
teas and even plays put on to aid
the funds being raised for the Red
Cross. The Alma Mater Society,
student governing body at U.B.C.,
gave birth to the idea of a crossCanada Red Cross Ball.

The system of waivers of caution
deposits is under consideration by
U.B.C. to aid the war effort. George
Bernard Shaw’s Candida was revived by the Players’ Guild in a Red
Cross benefit performance. Corsages
appear at no more U.B.C. dances,
but small Red Cross tags represent
a contribution to the Red Cross that
formerly went to the florist.

At Alberta emphasis is being put
on knitting, bandage folding and
other Red Cross activities by the
co-eds of the campus.

At Saskatchewan they have sold
the “Sheaff” (special issues) and returns from the undergraduate newspaper have been turned in to the
Red Cross. A general war fund has
been set up here as it has in most
other colleges, administered by the
student governing body. Chief method of contribution to this fund,
which benefits the Red Cross, is by
self-denial days on which little extras are forgone and the money
turned over to the War Fund. Here,
as in every other collegiate center
where co-eds gather, needles are
clicking and war work goes on at
all times with a really: remarkable
amount of needed knitted material
being turned out.

Manitoba, too, has its quota of
dances for the Red Cross as well
as support in the other fields.

In Ontario, “Varsity” has the edge
on the other universities in both the
number and novelty of its appeals.
Social and sport benefits have been
organized as well as drives for contributions for the Red Cross. The
organization of a central War Fund
here also makes it difficult to see
the exact scope of the work for the
Red Cross alone.

Western featured a March of
Dimes. McMaster co-eds seemed to
corner the war work with self-de
nial days and the profits of Christmas card sales swelling their war

fund.

Queens and McGill held a contest
to see who could contribute the
most gore to Re? Cross blood banks
ea from both drives.

      
  

 

 

War Fund activities include marches of dimes, pennies, etc. Queens
will support the Ball.

McGill, besides the blood donations, has had many varieties of
drives for funds and material to
aid the war effort. Proms were particularly lucrative to Red Cross
coffers.

In the Maritimes, Mount A’s war
fund was coming along merrily with
Red Cross and I.S.S. drives going
well when fire struck. The war fund
will continue, it is expected, although contributions will be cut severely due to losses sustained by
male students.

U.N.B. is another college that will
hold the Ball on the 23rd. Sports
have aided their war drives.

Acadia’s war fund has been sustained, as has Mount A’s, by individual student contributions.

In addition to War Funds and
Red Cross drives, it is to be noted
that many colleges have centered
their efforts on Spitfire funds or war
weapons or War Savings campaigns,
and naturally specific work for the
Red Cross, outside the co-eds’ efforts at sewing, knitting and folding bandages or serving in first aid
classes has not been great, compared with colleges who have placed
their entire support behind the Red
Cross. The Red Cross, however, has
received a great boost from Canadian universities and we should do
our best not to be left behind the
rest, even the foremost, in our effort.

New York Alumnae
Contribute Radios

An announcement in recent editions of the New York papers re
veals that Dalhousians now resident |’

in that city are bent on doing their
part to aid Canada’s seamen. The
alumni in the metropolis who are
associated with the Dalhousie University Chapter of the Maple Leaf
Fund Inc. have undertaken to provide radios for Five Canadian Naval
Hospitals.

On January 16, members of the
organization sponsored a tea and
cocktail party at their headquarters
on Fifth Avenue and each guest was
asked to contribute a dollar towards
radios for the hospitals constructed
or under construction at Halifax,
Sydney, St. John’s, Nfld.,, Esqui
malt and Comox, B. C.
The Dalhousie Chapter of the fund

is headed by Warren Publicover
while William H. Coverdale presides
over the National organization,

"ss

 

eee” oii aed:

RED CROSS BALL
BROADCAST

FRIDAY NIGHT
9:30 - 10:00

 

PHAROS LAUNCHES FINAL

SUBSCRI

PTION DRIVE

Orders Must Be Made By February 10

 

Coldwell Describes
War-Time England

 

M. J. Coldwell, acting leader of
the C,C.F. in the Canadian House of
Commons, spoke Thursday noon before a number. of the student
body, and the professors, in Room
Three, Arts Building. Using his
recent trip to England as a background, he gave a sketch of social
developments, more particularly
Since the war began.

Because of the German bombing
of slum areas, the average British
citizen who harbours these fugitives
from the Hitleric fury now has
knowledge of a situation which had
only been vaguely realized. Refugees
from a heavily bombed city, having
lost their homes, the slums, startled
farmers by taking to the barns and
even the pig-sties to live, and sleep.

Food conditions, according to the
speaker, are such that the average
person has no chance of continually
thriving. It is only the determination to win, and the knowledge that
all are being treated alike, that has
averted the danger of trouble
through a slight starvation. Communal eating has grown to vast
proportions, and “British Restaurants” are springing up all over the
country in the wake of devastation.
Here one can get a meal for the
equivalent of 4 pence, consisting of
bread, soup, and two vegetables, and
for ten pence a cut of pudding and
some meat added. For the poor,
meals are free.

There is great determination to
win on the part of the British, and
there is a hatred of the Hitleric
gang, though little for the German
people themselves.

Comparing Britain with Canada,
the speaker said the former had advanced further in the labor field,
and he pointed out the principles of
the C.I.0. organization, which were
seen as perhaps unfair by Canadians, were set forth by Ernest
Bevin, Minister of Labor in the
Churchill Government, and himself
the secretary of Britain’s largest
trades union.

While Churchill. was seen as a
great war leader, Mr. Coldwell
pointed out that he seemed bent on
only the job of winning the war,
and probably someone out of the
Labor party would lead the country
in the post-war period.

Turning to the realm of international affairs, he said that the fundamental reason for the breakdown
of harmony lay in the lack of collective bargaining and _ security.

Mentioning to Dalhousie youth
that the post-war struggle of Reconstruction would be as exciting,
dangerous and interesting as the
present war, he said that youth, the
primary sufferers under the system
of life which the older generation
could not control, would then have
a chance.

Dr. Wilson introduced the speaker.

——

 

 

The final drive to launch your 1942
edition of Pharos is now underway.
Any grads who have failed to have
their pictures taken are urged to do
so immediately, making their own
arrangements with the photographers.

All articles must be in to the
feature editor, Helen McKay, as soon
as it is possible and the editor requests that anyone possessing snapshots of campus life should get in
touch with Keith Lawton, photography editor, so that they might
be used in the Year Book.

Sale of the Year Book has been
opened and orders will be accepted
until February 10. Only the number of books ordered at that date
will be printed. Orders may be gtven
to Jean Cameron, Anita Rosenbloom,
Sandy MacDonald or Inez Smith. The
books will sell at two dollars apiece.

The best Year Book ever to come
cut at Dal is being planned, it will
depict as fully as possible in pictures and words the story of Dalhousie University, 1941-1942; the
story of the best days of your life;
days that you will recall in future
years with just a hint of nostalgia
and sentimentality. Get a Year
Book to bring back more vividly in
future years never to be forgotten
experiences and friendships. Pharos
is a diary of your life at Dal. It
is your duty to yourself to order
one... NOW!

Rehearsals Under
Way For Glee Club

The first of the one-act plays in
competition for the Bennett Shield
is scheduled to take place on the
night of February 20 with productions by Pi Beta Phi and Delta Gamma. Arts and Science is expected
to produce a one-acter later in the
month but the final date has yet to
be announced. On March 3, the 8-act
play, “Big-Hearted Herbert’ is to
be produced. Rehearsals are now
being conducted three times a week
and a well finished play is expected
to be presented. The cast will include such veterans as Kay Robinson who needs no introduction to
Dal Glee Clubbers, Dooley McIntosh
who will be remembered for his inspiring performance in “Spring
Dance” last year and Fred Forbes.
Among the newcomers to the Dal
stage will be Lynn Marcus, Babe
White, Tommy Rogers and Doshie
Stairs.

A meeting of the Students’

Council has been set for next
Tuesday evening. The results of

the Red Cross Dance will be presented and the Malcom Honour
Award Committee is to be chosen.

 

And Remember The Red Cross Dance

 

    

 
 

art

A=

 


7

~ ;

     
        
 
   
      
     
      
     
     
      
     
      
   
    
        
    
        
 
    
    
      
      
       
      
     
     
      
      
    
  
 
   
    
      
 
     
    
    
   

ie

       
        
    
           
 
   
 
       
 
     
      
   

    
  
 
  
  
 
   

  
  
  
 
   
 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE —
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS AND DAUGHTERS
. SIGHT SPECIALISTS
Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone B-6881

 
  
  
 

 

CUT FLOWERS, ete.

from

THE FLOWER SHOP
B-7133 —

 

   
       
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
   
      
     
  
  
   
    
 
   
    
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
     
    
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
 

    
  
  
  
      
    
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
    

military training. . The
Ue eratuating 0 a month
toa great shortage of
ts ce: Med course has
ned to four years instead

PATRONS .

 

Dal Organ of Puerile: Enigma

 

AS QUICK AS THAT

DO YOU REMEMBER PEARL
HARBOUR? Since you started reading this ad more than a dozen

telephone calls were placed in this Province alone.

Doug Robinson, Ist Year Engin- Last year more than 106 million local calls were completed

eering: in Nova Seotia. Some were to the butcher and no doubt some
“The Americans can’t do anything were to to the baker as well, but many were calls of great

without a “catch-phrase”, so if they national importance.

can lick the Japs by remembering

Pearl Harbour, we can grin and

bear it.”

 

 

Ww orks as. five ail percentage boost |
to the marks of student soldiers or
as those necessary — few points that
: Ee a a fe or "failure.
sity. has. Miceadinens | the
“ys Ke Hs that second instrument of |
the he i ooas of journalism. Hollywood
“city desks” fairly crawl with them. |

The telephone system takes a very important part in the
defensive and offensive preparations of our country, providing
a swift, sure means of communication.

 

Irma MacQuarrie, 2nd Year Science:

“Well—I think it is to keep people MARITIME TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE
from thinking there is no danger CO., LIMITED

when there actually is.”

A telephone ranks next to the type
weiter in the lists of necessities: for
_ publisher, editor, or reporter. Now &
: yen eae Se phe it to. the ae Jack Matthew, 4th Year Commerce:

_ winds and says, “No ‘items will be ; —= “Remember Pearl Harbour—rerece ceived by ees ” What will _, WILLIAM McT. ORR | CARLETON STANLEY member New Year’s Eve. Good thing,
UB n Ameche an a E dian Si Rabin: President of N.S. Red Cross Society President of Dalhousie University I’m all for it.”

 

 

  
     
   
 

Gordie Wilson, 2nd Year Engineering:

I don’t think much of it. Dunquirk was more of a disaster, wasn’t
ita’

Peet! are having their C.O.T.C.
“se January 30. Features of the
ball are a total black-out with air_ raid—and other—sirens, and a py2) wi display (fireworks to En_ gineers). Incidentally all corsages
a J are barred at Varsity dances. If
q ee Red Cross novelties were sold to reWA j AS place them here by the Council, a

lot of money would be forthcoming
for the organization.

Best Wishes...

For the Success of the

Doreen Miller, Ist Year Arts:
“Pearl Harbour? I haven’t heard
it yet, What is it?

“Spooky” Stevens, 2nd Year Arts:
“Never met the Dame. Is she related to Al Amo in anyway?”

oe

Dalhousie Student Council
Dance

\ ue rh Meds at Toronto have issued a
. _ statement setting forth that there
“da a0 are not enough doctors being turned

George Sheppard, Ist Year EnginAL hh out ee at the present time and

eering:
“What if I do (Belligerently). Sort
of complicated, isn’t it?”

in Aid of the Red Cross Society

 

ut

COUSIN’S

hit Medion a aneduns to Maki them by ee | —

ie _ providing for them directly or «HIS WORSHIP H. C. MURPHY ~ Bilt) fikcee Sud Yak ugeletne
OWE through a loan fund so that they MAYOR DONOVAN Vice-Pres. of N.S. Red Cross Society “Why peepee thiduiidanobdtves Bical
may not have to drop their courses Harbour, I’ll bite?”

pa +6 the loss of earning power) ——

 

 

 

+ _ through - war-time shortening of Sass
« Wert - their courses. Bob Swansburg, 4th Year Science:
Aas A iy eee SMART STYLES “Sure, I remember Pearl Harbour
Aen —it was the 13th,
She walks, a beauty in the night, | ) in MEN’S WEAR— Roy yn cer nae

No I guess it was the 14th... aw,
to heck with it.”

THE ADAM HAT Sa aaa ae

And so she Beer the parasite.

te Physics note: The dimmer the

 

 

f Pe: light, the greater the scandal aaa in the newest colors PTR ay ae ory -——- —— a
- Cold light £ $ 3 9 5
hy | . ‘ ;
On the sharp lines of a bayonet ° °
| Starkness and filth all at one price Sponsored by the Students of Dalhousie University
Incompatible
iH { For one
t - Whom from the wreckage ROY M. ISNOR Ch O f Th
_ Still clings to dreams “The Friendly Store” | oose ne oOo ese /

of blue hills
_ And rain in Summer,
_ Bird song over fields,
_ Brown leaves in hollows,
ay And the pulse of life.
aus —Western Gazette.
_ See one physician like a sculler plies, .
os gs ‘The -Batient lingers, and by inches BASIL WINTERS LIMITED
hae tat ey bysicians, ‘ike a pair of | |

7 bi pada , «383: BARRINGTON STREET
Watt: him more ‘gpritily to the Sty-|])- |
_.__ gian shores.

CAPITOL BUILDING 361 BARRINGTON STREET

 

Lovely Evening Dresses
at EATON'’S

S it glamour you’re after? Then cast your

* delighted eyes on the array of frocks fea
tured at EATON’S! You’ll see versatile jacket

Pe it same shape hehind ia hetbve: i dresses—sophisticated dresses with new plung
ve _ As none knew where Now Showing : | ing necklines—demure dresses with the smart

; e she offer a chair, . cover-up look. You’ll see—rayon. crepes, satins,

‘an a. 8 ss had to sit down on the floor.  MEN’S WINTER OVERCOATS, SUITS, taffetas, chiffons and rayon jersey, in header ’ ~—Western Gazette, ‘

he ki turning shades that you'll surely love! :..

Ry Roses are ey FURNISHINGS, ETC. Visit the Ready-to-Wear Department as soon

ito as possible—select your frock for the Red

Cross Bali!

a Ri There ‘was a young sue from Larf . hah ; hore,

 

*

EATON’S Prices, each

12.95 * 29.95

 
   
  

eae

 
   
 
      
     
  
     
 

t eshion Notes
i Orn many a slip
wit the skirt and the hip.
; and”
aah se co-eds’ silly clothes ©

+» When it shines, but when it~
Dees piers: see?

  
  

SMART CLOTHES

  
  

   
       
     
    
      

with that Pritessional touch so admired
by College Men —

Smart accessories, too, procurable at
EATON’ S!... Glittering handbags,
sheer stockings, smart evening shoes,
and other items,

THE STORE PREFERRED BY STUDENTS

_ SHANE'S MEN'S SHOP

Bey 30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

= 4! *

“T. MA RY TON, yee

A Discount of 10% to Students *
    
  

*~ reer ye Pee ) ery
ae : ge
f Wear hee 7 4 : aa |!
i} - iu
. ee Trae ie — i —— — — Morn, .
\ ; 5 ; ; Pal Sear faa ; sie ; fi
7 an tf tay ee | 5 od i | a ; ery 4 ‘i . y ee ,
He rH a Sa =i i ues " - " 4 i pire r 5 a
: , ef FA? , x ae ‘ Weeks if wr nF
i F f we S ray i A , ad : ;
ae ; ees ttm ies =e Cpa eh Al . i
Pies jee)! a ‘ ees Meta: \ ; y
f malt iat ; am met é ; . 1 ,
~ i ihe 4 ‘ ; n'y ¢ x ,
: Fae i n are é;
- . * r = 4 om q a" ' ‘
° ‘yal rif cat 4 )
J ie mi ii ’ pe) \ g My el 4 :
é te 4 4 r 1=* : = aa) ieee x
j Aaa, pare 4 Cretan ae lak Sipe i ;
f " G ml Mulry vas 4 iti ys 7 o
") vy ' ‘ 55 ' ‘ ;
d ‘ : ef 3 itd te! ue coe ‘ y > i
am ie - se = = om = = Ss 7 ‘ , ’ jc x A
y rea aetas Ws oes tho» J
ay ; | : 2
j ‘ Fe An Be be ; i . f
é i , ’ . > ; —_ ,
i n ‘ P ; i
J NU 7 i ;
ut oi hy i y | Py /
an , 4 fh ‘ , , ' \
‘i a i :
te é ‘ / gs é i} ‘ f d i
¥ a 4 Ly ;
A as ee ee! ah A
S » o> ley my :
ait b ¥ i { s ;
: ‘ ; x
ha i
fl } ‘ pi ‘
A i E j bt ay
am
a9 v ,
A ¥ i i , 5
est - vam 7 iF + y
; a

  
    

hee *

{ ae which really make you Think, besides being Practical in many other ways.

Oy
is

 

“sf

*%

at
ae) Gay sic. 7?

a ey
ane oy
‘

1 nee¥
‘ i


es ooze had been there all the time,

ai,
emerging from the sticky ooze. It
proved to be none other than John
a Fastman,

Hi sank back into the grime for an
It would be Groasly Neglectful if, in our consideration of the various

ot ntriguing Courses offered by the University, we made no mention of

Sete 1, or, as it is sometimes known, Physics 2. Here is a Course

_ Physics: 1 (or 2) should not escape your consideration in picking future

a i Classes, for it invariably receives the highest commendation (Condemna) tion, ete.) from those who have previously taken it, and may become very
hy attached to the Course after a few years. An integral part of the make
up of the Complete College Man is that he has taken Physics at least
once.

The Official Calendar is somewhat obscure on the division of Physics
into Physics 1 and 2. There are, however, innumerable Consoling Reasons
for this, the chief of these being a consolation for Freshmen, who can

an - register in Physics 2, and thus have their Ego’s bolstered by this sembHt lance of Advance. Do not be deluded by this show of Progress, Physics 1
_ and 2 are the same course, almost. Another reason for the division is to

7

give those who pluck in it the first time a choice of some slight diversion
in the following Year. Both these considerations are there for a definite
purpose: to the Ultimate Benefit of the Student.

_ Physics is fundamentally a Course of the utmost Simplicity, if you

_ know anything about it. The first essential in securing a Thorough Grasp

of Physics is to learn a completely new set of Units, and new ways of
doing things. You will learn that, as is usual, much of your Preliminary
Education has to be Unlearnt, and that no longer are things measured in
Inches, Yards and Rods; but, to make things easier, the Physicist has invented a new set of Symbols and Units, from the utterly insignificant Mu
(pronounced mu) to the grossly significant Lightyear. Here is a simple
table in Physics, which will show the convenience of these units, and
their many applications:
49 Slugs—1 Erg.
63.5 Ergs—9 Jewels
0.003 Jewels — 7.6563 Carrots
3.8 x 103 Carrots — 81 Dines.

These are of great importance and convenience in figuring out some
startling Physical conceptions as How High is Up.

Invaluable, and Consoling, in later life are the far-reaching Physical
considerations affecting a Body, falling through space at the rate of 32
ergs-jewel-sec-sec-ete. If you ever have the misfortune to tumble from
an Aeroplane, you can relieve the boredom of the fall by figuring out, by

means of Physics, how far from the Ground you will be when you hit.

(Note: It is interesting to observe that the Physicist is wholly concerned
with “Bodies” unlike Algebra, whose sole consideration was always “a
Man”, who performed in a number of Remarkable Ways.

Physics is Intriguing in many other ways than described above. It
is possible, by Physics, to figure out many remarkable things about moving Cars, Bodies, etc., and other slipping objects, by merely drawing a

- number of Arrows in different directions, and from this, guessing which

way the car will move, by joining the Arrows to one another. This trick
was invented by a man named Vector, who, like many Physicists, commemorated the discovery by naming it after himself. This is to be observed in many remarkable cases: as Mr. Gram’s memorable Invention,
and that of Herr Centimeter, and many others. One must never confuse
these Scientific Egotists with Sir J. Jeans, whose only contribution was
to name a Habiliment.

Physics is greatly concerned, as are most of us, with Significant
Figures. By means of this course, you will quickly learn to distinguish
between the Significant and the completely Unsignificant, with a minimum of ERROR, which will be a great help to you at all times. In these
Practical ways, then, Physics serves the Student, and for these reasons
should come in for a full share of attention when selecting Classes, come
what may.

» Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

 

EPISODE 13
By the Waters of Minna Tonka or
the Haul Steps.

“Yes”; continued the bland Colonel, “It is all very simple. The truth
of the matter is simply that PROKOY really is King Karl and has
been all the time. He simply allowed
his beard to grow.” The demon reporter, Rob McLeak, hastened back
to the library to discover that this
was indeed the truth. The sticky

bushes, and instantly a score of
bashful damsels were ;combing the
Haul woods. There was no escape
for the hapless Sammy Skunk, dodging hither and thither to avoid the
perfumed females, Another pitiful
spectacle to be observed was Elk
MeLeod, who was flailing his arms
around like octopi in a fruitless endeavour to escape the powdered
beauties. A number of the more
active skirts could be observed wallowing around in the sticky ooze,
but Fastman:was by this time buried so deeply in the grime that he
was not to be found.

as well as the mental haze, as well
as the perpetual dawg. Just as order was being restored, a grimy
could be seen gradually

“Unaccustomed”, he be“as I am to the light of
At this point he began
_ to be choked by the mental haze and

 

Within the realm of Minna, how-| Just at this time, however, the

three, who had draped across their

am - ever, a scene of wild confusion was

eh a 4 . *
jn evidence: Breathless maidens
i: ta could be discerned on the second

Beit floor chanting siren songs to such

_ males and pseudomales as were pass
_ ing., Immediately upon sighting of
me derby on the horizon a bevy of
pee femininity appeared ‘on the
; Haul steps, and the building could be
seen to visibly shake. A shriek of

ri Team could be seen as

OE ae MacMean failed to run down.
Ni Tae: ould be heard in the

 

bevy found its attention diverted to
the shadow-boxing show. Here, in
the gym, could be seen Wubber McTunnell seated wpon a high throne,
the throne being garlanded with
fifteen garlands of gold and black.
each garland encireling a filthy
little solon. At the other end of
the gym could be seen J. Windebag
dealing telling intellectual blows (in
absentia) to his opponent in the byeelection, the mysterious Tom-Tom
Unwilansky. aor: rebuttal

Dear Cluntie Effie:

The Gazette office, of late, has been flooded with a great number
of letters from students, seeking advice on matters of the Heart.
As the Editors have been unable to cope with the incoming flood of
correspondence, an authority on the subject has been engaged. In
future Aunt Effie Hoshkins will answer all queries regarding these
vital issues, so mail your love difficulties to Aunt Effie Hoshkins,
c/o the Gazette, and it shall be dealt with as only our Auntie Effie
knows how.

My first letter this week comes from Shirreff Hall, where, it seems,
the young ladies are having trouble in securing male companions for an
evening’s entertainment. The letter is signed by three dear girls: Miss
VY. Crumbs, Miss Trinidad Minor, and Miss M. Darrie, and we wish to
offer the following advice to you, my dears: Miss Crumbs, if the “Lightning” isn’t fast enough, my advice to you is, try the “Silver Slipper”.
To you, dear Miss T. M., if the Lawyers and Medicals aren’t suitable, ask
Red Payne. And finally to Miss Darrie: try T. M.’s cast-offs.

f me eye

Miss D, MacK. would like to know how to keep her escort from being
so polite at the Sucker Dances. He excuses himself too frequently, is
her complaint. My dear child, I understand perfectly. My advice is for
you to bring a supply yourself, and keep it at the table.

abe age

We have a letter from a poor perplexed male. A Mr. Lex R. writes:
“Dear Auntie Effie: My girl went to a recent formal in grave company.
What will Ido?” This is a very serious matter, but, to quote the “Manitoban”, “You’re too easy with her. Try pushing her in the gutter.” This
works wonders, believe me.

x * * &

Miss Rosie M. writes a touching note. She wants to know if her
flame kept his promise and spent a dry Christmas holiday. You say he
visited you, my dear. That would indicate one of two things: either love

or a guilty conscience

that bothers you. Is your boy-friend inattentive, or just non-existent?
I shall try to solve all your problems, and give you the benefit of my
experience in all matters, regardless. Haye no fears, my dears, you
can trust your Auntie to solve your difficulties, or at least, to publicize them.

Affectionately, your

Aunt Cffie
0 CER oF

 

SSS

The Sawmakers Shuffle provides
the inspiration for the majority of
this weeks Grime, and though we
don’t wish to enroach too severely
on T-Square, here it is.

* * at

SS

It didn’t take Bob long to pick up
when Sue left off, though he’d better keep an eye on Lex.

 

 

 

 

 

ae a cd
No, Penny, you don’t spell Doshie
with an AW— tsk, tsk!
We were pleased to observe that wp He
the Second Floor plea had been responded to in such an energetic man-! lusions
ner.

“Kissy” must be having those deof grandeur again. The
‘phone call might have had telling

effect, but for one thing. The Lord
Who should be there, Airforce and | will provide.

all, but Prokov, who according to Re) ae
popular report, was disguised as
“Inez”, Who’d a thunk it.

ae * *

It pays to advertise.
* ¥ ad

Grime Smirches On!

 

Mussett’s P. T. -prowess was ob- |
served, as he practised a few push- |
ups in the middle of the floor. ‘sal Friday and Saturday

must have been getting in shape| __ “NAVY BLUES” _
for Sunday’s parade. | CASE OF THE BLACK

OXFORD

! PARROT”
Monday and Tuesday
a “SKYLARK”
Freshettes, whose names we will “PUDDIN’ HEAD”
forbear to mention, sporting the Wednesday and Thursday

latest scalps. Better shine while
the hay holds out, kids, for you'll
and the

“TILLIE THE TOILER”
“NINE LIVES ARE NOT
ENOUGH”

be Sophomores next year,

new batch takes over.
* cs *

 

 

“Yank” never seems to be able to
get through an evening without collecting a small fortune in lipstick

Thursday - Friday - Saturday
on his tie.

“THE CARTER CASE”
“NEVADA CITY”

Such mismanagement.
Bee

 

eA ak) tie
It was interesting to observe the

“Lihtning” is having the old
trouble again, though this time maybe it’s not all his fault.

Monday - Tuesday - Wednes.
“GAS BAGS”
“KANSAS CYCLONE”

Jan. 29, 30, 31
“Blue, White and Perfect”
“The Man From Montana”

Or is it?

ee

ORPHEUS

ed out by the roars of the spectators

 

backs the mysterious symbol:

  

ALGIOOS ALVACGCVUD LSOd
That is all except the voice from

the midst of the ooze, intoning a

soft chant:

“Get down in the groove, there’ll be
music and dancing

An’ jumpin’ and jivin’, carressin’,
romancin’,

The jivvin’ comes first, and the romancin’ follers—

It’s for the Red Cross and the price
is three dollars,”

Tich

HA Famous Players Theatres
“CONFIRM OR DENY”

  

Don Ameche - Joan Bennett
and “The Frightened Lady”

“FOUR JACKS AND A JILL”

(in abstinentia) was almost drownRay Bolger - Anne Shirley

and
“DATE WITH A FALCON”

 

Me ephee

wu ye

’ rs
ie ‘ pt 7 a favs vhs

     
 
   
     
     
   

  

Pi

 

Pause...

Si aes

pisses

You trust its quality

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

J ANUS coveted no nymph’s embraces:
He could smoke Picobac in both his faces!

@ The God of Commencements could contemplate both past and future with equanimity.
And why not? Picobac is such a mild, cool,
sweet smoke, so low in price, so completely
satisfying that everyone who has discovered it
looks both backward and forward to endless
delightful hours in its fragrant company.

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH «=
¥%-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN’ 
also packed in Pocket Tins

cobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

E ice-cold “Coca-Cola”. It

m: of genuine goodness...
taste, the taste that
go ZE, eS charms and never cloys

Sage . +. refreshment, complete
refreshment. Thirst asks
nothing more.

    
     
  

           
   
  

15¢
65¢

  

ia (hy $
ay riitme
aL ber

ava) aes

 

   
    
 
 
 
 
  

Everybody wanis the real
thing for his money. That's

has quality, the quality

602

 

STARTING SATURDAY

BOB HOPE
VERNA ZORINA

in

    
 
 

The New

CASINO

*

. It’s for you to decide.
. * * *
And now, my dears, do not hesitate to write me about anything

 

“Louisiana
Purchase”
*

Thursday - Friday - Saturday

RAYMOND MASSEY.
LAURENCE OLIVIER
LESLIE HOWARD

“49th Parallel”

Starting Saturday Jan. 24

 
   
  

LORETTA YOUNG

“The Men in Her
Life”’

 

= Oe eee i
  

 

 

‘McLeod and Forsyth, and a free

second half, however, the
‘really began to go to town, follow
Me har i
. .
se Car eye ‘3
i. ote AT hte :
ea) ee Pea Pte y af
4 * Bah hes '
* : bi irs ria gf Jé 7 ae i
Bh Eta ee ee th Paine
{ oe ad * | ;
i ir 70 == 5 4
4 i re 7 wy
- P a i, ;
i ee ||
1 i r}
WS ‘g F ae
_— re
‘ tt
1 ' t : =
+
/ lif ant
‘ 7

Halifax City League Championship,

_ the Dalhousie Tigers won their first
league contest of the season when

they handily defeated the R.C.A.F.
senior team by a 33-19 score. The
game was attended by a large crowd
of students and citizens, who turned out to see the curtain-raiser of
the 1942 schedule. _

The first period was slow, and produced what some observers said was
the poorest basketball the Dalhousie
gymnasium has witnessed in years.
Both teams were checking quite closly, but the collegians were cramping

i their own style by throwing long

passes which generally were off the
mark. The Air Force were throwing
up a strong defensive line under
their own basket, battling tooth and
nail for rebounds, and capitalizing
on the Tiger failure to find the hoop
with any degree of consistency, or
accuracy. The first canto of the
contest ended with the score reading
11-10 in favour of the Dalhousie
squad, the black and gold having
counted on baskets by McKenzie,

throw by Smith, who was playing
a lot of guard for the Ralston squad.

Upon resumption of play for the
Tigers

ing the lead of Bently Wilson, who

notched ten points in twenty ala

utes, while the visiting airmen could
find the hoop for only nine points
In this frame, the fans were treated to some really good basketball,
as the Tigers whipped the ball
around the Air Force forecourt, and
began to find their eye. Dawson
MacDonald, who had relieved “Mike”
Smith in the guard position, sank a
flip-shot from outside the free-throw
lane. Forsyth whipped down the
floor on a smooth passing attack
with Wilson and Hicks to make a
lay-up shot look easy, and add an
_ other brace of points to the Tiger

total. Dunbrack shook himself clear |
of his check to go in on to the basket and make his shot certain. McLeod snared a loose ball under the

 

_ airmen’s basket and popped it in.

At the same time as they were

_ staging this twenty-two point scor
fi

ing splurge, however, the gold and

| black quintet were throwing up a
| elose-checking defence, and limiting

Ni
Uz

_ the airmen to a mere nine points.
i 7 “When the final whistle blew, there
_ by a successful free throw in the
_ last twenty seconds of play, by Case

_ fore, the scorekeeper’s book showed |
| a 88-19 decision in the Tiger’s fav- |

our, and the bengals had | campaign,

_ the first rung in their climb to the
_ basketball heights.

utes of play the Cubs were on the

"a
‘
ht

7
4
ae
1

sa basketball, with the Cubs and the

4

4

_ Smith, 3; McDonald, 2; MacLeod, 9;

. Fraser and Bauld who notched six

Ay fm A aie,

Dalhousie Tigers — Wilson, 10;

Hicks; Forsythe, 4; Dunbrack, 2;
McKenzie, 3.

 

CUBS LOSE 35-34

The. Dalhousie Cubs, bearers of the |’
_. University torch in the Halifax Intermediate Basketball League, con
tinued their losing streak on Saturday evening last, but came very,
very close to turning their effort
into a win. At the end of forty min
short end of a 35°34 secore—beaten

of the R.C.A.F.

_ The contest was a thriller from
start to finish. Playing on the small
Y.M.C.A. floor, both teams played
a close-checking game, refusing to
give any advantage to the opponent.
At no time during the session were
the two squads separated by more
than three points, and no sooner
would one’team have that advantage
than it would lose it.

The Dalhousie drive was provided
by Dave Doig, southpaw centreman,
who tallied ten points to lead all
Dal scores. He was followed by

points apiece, but all three were
headed by Case of the airmen, who
dropped fourteen points through
the twines. .

The first half produced some fine

Flyers probing each other’s defences
for weak spots, and after whipping

40> - . wae (ele es a “

    

 

     
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

ee SS
os Poet a)

—_ - — — ay Pr eee
¥ ve a a Haan TOU eee
7 it

or aT \ cf
= tas a)
Wee ry
|
i

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Win First Of City League
the ball around, driving through for S P O R T Cp a ‘

by AL. MacLEOD

 

>.
»

 

 

j lay-up shots. At half fime the score
sheet read 17-17, and the teams retired for a well-earned rest. In that
period, Doig and Bruce Bauld tallied the majority of the Cub scores,
while the guards, MacDonald and
Fraser were concentrating on keeping the opposition from the Dal
basket.

The second half saw play roughen up, and a parade of penalties
followed with fourteen personal fouls
called on the Cubs, and fifteen on
the R.C.A.F.

The score, in the meantime, was
slowly but surely mounting with the
lead see-sawing back and forth.
Finally with less than a minute remaining, and the scoreboard reading
34-34, Case of airmen was pushed
from behind by a Dal player as he
attempted a field goal. With only
seconds remaining, he was successful on one of the two free throws
which were awarded him, and the
game was to all intents and purposes over, for the Cubs could not
crack the stout defence set up by
the flyers, who fought desparately
to hold their slim lead.

The game was marred somewhat
by an injury suffered by Myer Zatzman, who broke a bone in his foot
after falling heavily to the floor as
he attempted a shot at the basket.
The injury is not serious, but will
probably keep him out of action
for the rest of the season.

   

-We print herewith a letter recently received from A.
Webster MacDonald, President of Students’ Council, ete.,
etc., in reply to last week’s Sport Spice. We give it to you
just as it arrived in the mail—complete, unexpurgated, and
unabridged. Andd fellas—he ain’t foolin’!

* * * *

Dalhousie University, Halifax, N. S.

The Editor, The Dalhousie Gazette. Jan. 19, 1942.

Dear Sir: Beneath the jingling doggerel and journalistic
hysteria of the sport editorial which appeared in last week’s
issue of the Gazette lay a charge which has been the subject
of much misapprehension and muddle-heading thinking on this
campus for over a year and a half and to which I feel it my
duty to reply. This frenzied and untimely outburst makes the
claim that the Students’ Council, whose responsibility it is to
distribute the funds entrusted to them in the best interests of
the student body as a whole, is cutting the allotment for the
Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club to an unworkable minimum,
and at the same time depriving that organization of its hardearned receipts. Such a statement is not only short-sighted
but it gives a distorted and garbled picture of the true state
of affairs.

The fundamental factor which your sports writer preferred to ignore is that the D.A.A.C. is not an autonomous
body, keeping its own accounts, and garnering receipts which
gives it a financial surplus. No organization on this campus is
in that privileged and fortunate position. The vital point is

this: the J).A.A.C. is a subsidiary organization, supported by
the general funds, derived p

rimarily from the student body,
Wid only according to
student enterprise

~

 
 
  
   

and as such it must govg
its own needs and fanci¢
in general.

 

 

Eat at...

 

T

January 21,1942 ° |,

fe

=

|

  
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
    
  

At the dances you attend. .
becoming evening coiffure will greatly enhance your charm. Arrange for your appointment in ,

. a smart,

Simpson’s Beauty Salon

Telephone L-4111

  
 

| Four Expert Barbers to Improve

EVANGE LEN DB Ul cc ur cueel
TEA ROOM |

 

For many years n¢
of its athletic pursuits
thousands of dollars.
sale of badminton birds
practically nil. That thi
| comes readily apparent,
consider izeal
girls

Tiees Puck Save :
Begin Workouts

 

   

CA Cs

Subsequent to an exhibition of indecision and bickering, which would
have done credit to a ’Ladies’ Auxiliary for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Overfed Politicians and Ph.D’s”,
Dalhousie’s future for 1942 appears
in a somewhat clearer and better
light.

Navy has decided to enter the College Service Hockey League, to
complete the three team circuit and
replace Nova Scotia Tech, who won
the championship last year, but
were unable to compete in this
year’s loop. Ice has been obtained
at the Arena Rink, which is no
small feat in itself. However, games
will have to be played in the afternoons, aS no evenings are available.

  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

carr
fund
mak
to be
eve

that
on, no one will deny th
Club and Sodales and
housians are interested.
in last week’s editorial vy
of finance, but I must co
me. The D.A.A.C. stan¢
ditures are concerned, b
a unique accounting stat
than its source, and it

 
  
 
    
  
  

  
  
 

   
   
    
 

xtended the scope
lent body literally
principally from
games, have been
ment is unfair bewhen one stops to
T t) "CO

| JACK MITCHELL’S
564% SPRING GARDEN ROAD BARBER SHOP
B-9571

41 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

   

 

   
  
  

  
   

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
    
  
   
  
  
  

  

so must the Glee
ons in which Dalthat was executed
Siamese minister
at of a mystery to
f as far as expenr evidently desires
am can rise higher
® matter how the

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

figures are twisted, that only a certain sum of money can be
devoted to sport. The receipts, such as they are, from every
other organization on this campus are ‘turned over to the
Council if, during the year, it is found that the original budget
of any of them is insufficient, the Council uses the funds at
their disposal to keep them running. It is merely elementary
bookkeeping, yet your sports writer wishes to dispense with it
and secure preferred treatment for the D.A.A.C.

The activities and organizations on this campus, if they
are to function effectively, must do so as an integrated whole.
No one wants,to cut down on sport any less than I do, but if
student activity is to continue at all it must do so as a team
and not as a house divided against itself. That is why the
Students’ Council takes in receipts from all’ organizations—so
it can dole out money to the hard-pressed organization that
needs it most. If it’s the D.A.A.C. that needs the money and
shows signs of going over its budget, then the D. A. A.C. will
get the money it requires. The ultimate financial responsibility,
however, is that of the Council, and it is the Council who must
decide how much is to be spent and where it is to go. It is to
remembered, too, that the paying spectators, who make up
what little receipts there are at rugby games, are attracted
there by advertising the cost of which is borne by the Council.
So with the pep-rallies and similar activity which are in support of the D.A.A.C., but which that body does not have to pay
for. All the money used at this college comes, in the last analysis, from one source—the student body—no matter how it
is distributed or what system of accounting is used. It is this
fund that the Council is attempting to distribute in the most
equitable fashion possible, and any suggestion to the contrary

 

“The hockey ailotment, although
merely a shadow of its former self,
should, if not subjected to the financial machinations of certain gentry,
prove sufficient to carry on a restricted but nevertheless successful

Coach Ralston called the first
practice last Thursday and the turnout exceeded the most optimistic exIn the vicinity of 25 or
30 hopefuls answered the call, eager
to impress all and sundry their
prowess with the blade and stick.

It was the common impression of
those who watched the practice that
with such material and a modicum
of Lady Luck’s beneficences, Dal
might win the odd game this season. To put it shortly, and to the
point some better-than-average hockeyists put in an appearance. It
seemed, however, that by far the
greater number turned out for
spots on the forward line, and only
a few potential Red Horners sought
a berth where they could take care
of defensive duties.

pectations.

:
'

 

  
 
  
 

  
  

   

Covered with
Neilson’s smooth
French-style Chocolate

«
pide

  

vi
KAY’S LIMITED
Ladies’ Wear

  
         

 

 
 
   

is unfounded in fact.

Those trying out for the goal position included Sandy McDonald,
the Vox Populi of the Law School,
and Kenny McKinnon, erstwhile St.
F. X. performer. Both proved themselves capable net custodians and a
choice between them will be no easy
task, Defencemen included Web
MacDonald and Dooley McIntosh of
last year’s team. The outstanding | J
forward line was composed of Gor-| Nawy Syst \ate an Vaknown
die Wilson, Marty McDonald and | quantity, but a backward look at
W. Fraser. This unit is comprised | ne : hig * ay) Bxoduéed et rigs.
of big, fast men who should cause| 2” indication that they will bear
plenty of trouble to opposing publics | watching. The Tigers engaged in

: : 4 Ss isi ers wit he
if they remain together as a line. |Some bruising encounters with the
|Tars last season, and many an ex
| citing tussle will undoubtedly devel_ The league itself is expected to | oup before the league ends this
swing into action this week with St, | year.
Mary’s crossing sticks with the) The Tigers will unquestionably
Navy. St. Mary’s, with six of last} have a stronger squad this year
year’s fast-stepping squad returning. than last, and especially so on the

- Ae =

to the fold, will undoubtedly ice a
Strong contender for league honors.
They are picked by many to be the
team to beat.

 

 

 

 

Yours sincerely,
A. WEBSTER MACDONALD,
President of the Students’ Council.

ee

  

481 BARRINGTON STREET

  

front lines. If the team can condi- |
tion themselves quickly, and develop |
a two-way style of play, the league
will be a bitterly contested one.
Practices are being held on Tuesdays and Thursdays, at 12.30 on the
former day and 1.30 on the latter.
Anyone desiring to turn out should
speak first to Coach Burnie Ralston |
or Manager Secrymgeour. :

|

 

 

 

Best Wishes

For the Red Cross Ball

  
 

 

 

SENIOR BASKETBALL .LEAGUE

  

P. Wi I Pe:
Dalhousie ....... 1 Lie? 21000
NAV a ee < oh 2 BL.) OD
Air Worees:. 4 5.) 2 1 1 . 500
Acadia cert) Oke “2 4 GGG
