‘ Dalhousie

“THE COLLEGE

 

SE im Bence Digard Winner Chosen

, Medicine Makes Clean Sweep ELECTION RESULTS || guise Bishop Selected for
. Patterson Defeats MacDougall | vx Highest Student Award

, Eng. Com. Dent. Med. Law A&S. Total
na | | evitz ‘Heads Glee Club Henry Tonning.. a 12 he 11318 46 oe
| | ri] Bemie Gruham.. 99076) BB 79") 188 THIRD CO-ED IN FOUR YEARS

  

 

 

 

 

 

Vice-President:

- . ; Lorne MacD ] 7 Se ee eee ote Louise Bishop, President of Delta
. ene et I vis eeaoks) and “contusion Bob Walter Award Tom aa % F ‘ a : Z o Gamma, was salesked by the Mal| _ of elections, there emerged the one Medicine: Malcolm Honor Awar d com Honour Award Committee as
| ig major factor that next year Medi- Bee Minors vs es i 97 a i 07 RT mr the outstanding graduate of 1942 to
\ LN) cine will reign supreme in the Gasdinty: ioe bi Ny i ‘i gF, a wv gb receive the coveted Malcom Honour
| 4 Campus political whirl. Both Presi- MacDonald .... ip a bc Gal BaD ep, pt) We Award. Louise needs no introduc| a ete Kg . ; tion to Dal students. In her. three

5 dent and Vice-President of the Stu- Law: erat |
BE a nud : MacMill years at the University she has
dent Council will be supplied by that a a ae v a oh of + ih a made herself indispensable to all

faculty. Henry Tonning gained a i. een prea pi te a a Shs aie 18 ats 18 campus activities.

_ close victory over Bernie Graham i ae Louise entered Dal in 1889 as a
in the Presidential contest while the ay: erat - on 13 ‘2 Js ‘7 13 Freshie-Soph with the Elizabeth
'\_ viee-presidential contest saw Pat- PC ate a a PONSA UO AMD vera rs tr a MacKenna Scholarship. In 1941 she
f _ terson triumph over Lorne Paoe : became Secretary-Treasurer of the
_ Dougail of Law after a nip and tuck Ki 9 Delta Gamma Society and this year

| Os rtaoand Bunnie, Levitz, another Med ne Lyte Muheen y ‘, ; ve be i > ‘ was elected President of that So: os student gained a clear cut majority Engi Porshe ciety. Active in Debating, she has
over Barb. Sieniewicz for President WHISWOH a) ds 19 sh Le is st a) 19 won her Gold “D” for’ Intercolleib i of the Glee Club while Doshie Stairs SEIIG oY onc «00 22 A 7 sib as a 22 giate. Louise is also a member of

became popular choice for Vice- Arts & Science: Midlothian and for the past year

 

 

 

Serymgeiur ..... i 7 Oh tes ee i 7
1
|

 

 

 

 

 

Narr an econ eb. Po Frosh: iene been Literary Editor of the
of son ae ee Morse “2 nm *e - ou a 88 83 Gazette.
( a the position of the Co-eds in relation Graven 39 39
to. the D.A.A.C. some of the females ROBERT WILCOX SME ee pint =e tf a e - More than once her voice has ene Bik Howed to vote for D.A.A.C. ‘ Sophs: (two): thralled Glee Club audiences. Every
we "were ae Pelee At the Engineers’ Banquet held Barrie 4.4.0'55/:.. M se ay As 19 19 all
representatives. This necessitates : ‘ ‘ branch of student activity has felt
Bie ae oe Saturday evening. Bob Wilcox re- MacKenzie .... ef ‘4 v ef ay 94 94 LOUISE BISHOP | her influence. At present she is takuy ta on Studley for the) ceived the highest honor which the Gena. Waly a/, ik ey 4 Bt 14 71 71 —— TT | ine “an Bondurt “Comes iii aaa
ian A.A. wtih itions. +. . . c ) ; & «< . .
es : - ” Engineering Society has to bestow Stevens ....... ae = sa Be ae 44 44 Mi d St d , Co il = will graduate with Honours in
ont Award. Instituted last year in re- oucubhass ‘ as
CM M D Py memberance of Bob Walter, the Mackle eR . ‘a + ti? vis ~ President eo As ad
y unro ay ogram award was first won by Bob Vail McC] 7 paea ran i? ey BY Fi re ee “1 D od 99 |
if 4 The Award is given each year to . ears ee es ae ut Pe oe eT So} 64 64 raft gers
&t roe z i CP TAPIGT 65 hiccdkn be in Al he oe i, 49 49 Lectures on
4 j Offers Variety the man who best exemplifies the . Tied shale | stiimis found: thon:
1 , qualities which Bob Walter himself} Glee Club: selves this week in an almost hope-| 3
hah | Possessed — those qualities of fel-) President: less dilemma caught between the | Canada’s F or eign
ye ae Re om ead ae lowship, sportsmanship and scholar- Sieniewiez pach Asp 16 4 9 67 22 52 170 | cross-fire of two eminent University | p lic
WP bd oe the avettey ehich have ship. taerite Rienagrenyt 25 15 11 85 10 72 218 | authorities. With the circulation of | OUCY
F, featured previous Munroe Days will | The presentation of the award} Vice President: | a report, later verified, that Med and |
ine iad be in evidence, but the Munroe: was the main feature of the Ban- Stairs bis is. bPa\e. w ele 36 14 11 88 24 101 274 | Law students were being classified
_ Day Committee of Penny Patchell, Wkogs BEE) en ene) By COL Peer hiss ca dla ha 5 4 4 48 8 24 96.) as “Draft-Dodgers” by Warden of| A number of public lectures on
4% Doshie Stairs, Chris Arklie, Don sae a Soap cn Ph Shirreff Hall, the ordinary male was| Canada’s War Problems have been
_ Kirkpatrick and Blanchard Wiswell, Lee a CUCU ee bith ad tks t all 5 : ; faced with the question of “Whom | arranged again by the Institute of
_ under the chairmanship of Ken | Theakston, ata ian Ag A lent elas fix a eae CLASS "45 CHOOSES shall I believe?” Earlier in the} Public Affairs at Dalhousie Univerbeh *Fapen, has attempted to incorporate Campbell and Verne Graham. NEW EXECUTIVE | vyeat, if you remember, the Presi-| sity, B. K. Sandwell, Colonel Geo.

the best features of previous years Colonel Debney of the Royal Can-| The production was capably di- ;

into * well rounded enjoyable pro- adian Engineers was the guest rected and produced by Miss Jacque- At a meeting of Class °45, held

gram. Events will begin at 3 P.M. speaker and gave an_ interesting , line _ Fowler, while scenery and on Thursday Boe ae the eS,
iy ‘with a basketball game between the talk on the work being done by the lighting were SAicieatty handled by Building, the class executive for

Pe Boys’ and Girls’ Basketball Teams. Canadian Engineers in England. Don Kirkpatrick, Geoff Bagnall and| the forthcoming year was selectFrom 8.85 to 4.00 there will be a Major Hogan, Professor Murray! Bill Hagen. The play is to be repro-| ed. Mac Campbell was chosen as

dent of the University, in speaking | E. Drew, President Norman Mac- ;
| to the assembled Student Body,! Kenzie and Ronald McEachern of =
gave, as his epinion, that the gov- the Financial Post have been invited
}ernment desired students to com- to discuss before a Halifax audience

plete their University studies. “Problems of Canada’s Foreign Pe

; | Seemingly, he was speaking for the | icy”. The addresses will be given
| 3 « » ¢ o , , . . > 2 wu Je oc: A 72 eA = oe - * aan »- N
MacNeil and Professor Theakston; duced tomorrow evening in the Dal} the new Class President, Doshie | University authorities as a-whole.| or Friday, March 18th, 20th and

“  ‘Men’s and Women’s Singles Bad- ;
i also gave short addresses to the | gym for the benefit of the Service-| Stairs as Vice-President and Geo. | Now, with scarcely two months of | 27th, and April 10, at 8.15 in the

_ minton match and also the final

 

_ round of the Men’s PingPong Cham- | Esineers. paren | Smith asieeretary. the cellege year remaining, males Chemistry Theatre at Dalhousie
 pionships. These will be followed at or i arcs paninite,) | find themselyes being referred to by | University.
4 o'clock by a demonstration of : _an administration official of the Uni- Rage? , ,
ae vi ‘ i. | The series will be started ;
platoon Drill by a ©.0.T.C. Demon- Glee Club 3. Acter Backstage At * ‘Big _ Herbert” | versity as “Draft Dodgers”. ne Series: Will be started by &

K. Sandwell, Editor of “Saturday

stration Platoon. At 4.30 the girls | The least that the students of this

ce will present an Archery display Scores Hit | University should be able to expect Card sree by wes
which will be followed by a tug-of- ° ie oe : oe ~. | is that there would be some cohesion bs the Us ‘ ’ ee m fi re Tee
“ih war between two picked teams from, Forbes, Robinson, es a cae ae -< o-. | of effort and opinion within the Uni- spe ge nee en

  
 
 
   
  
  
 

— — -—--—

‘ie | MacKenzie of the University of
| versity / inistration. the male |. : ey Pea a
eS tes and Forrest. The Studley | Rogers Star... p Neer arena ey SEACH, <i FL seve A New Brunswick will follow him on

» squad i is under the leadership of Don

_ Kirkpatrick with Mike Smith to lead | A large and appreciative audience,

_ the Forrest hopefuls. After this ex- which had braved a drenching rainbi hibition of masculine strength, two | Storm, laughed heartily through
Be | _ picked girls teams will show the. three acts of what was, in the opinA men how it’s done. Major Hogan, _ion of many, the best Glee Club proi recognized authority on Tug-of- | | duction in years. Fred Forbes as

student cannot find support from his
university authorities in carrying
lout the advice of his University
oxen his position is, to all intents and purposes, untenable.

   

Friday, March 20th, with his address on “Canada and the Far
East”. The third speaker is Colonel
E. Drew, Leader of the Opposition
in the Ontario Legislature. He will
discuss “Canada and Soviet Russia’”’.

   

 

 
 
    
 

    
 

 

 

 
 
      
   
 
 

  

war will judge the two contests. crusty, middle-aged Herbert Kalness Dal Debaters Ronald McEachern, Assistant Ed-evening’s program will begin | W4S by far the outstanding person- itor of the Financial Post in Toronth a Glee Club Show at 8.00] ality on the stage. His acting stole Meet St. Thomas to, whose articles on a trip to the

Latin-American countries have reNext Friday, March 18th, at 8 celved wide attention, will, on April
p.m., in the Arts building, Walt; 10th, bring the series to an end with
Gaudet and Charlie O’Connell, 8rd, an address on “Canada and South
and ist year Law students respec- | America”.
| tively, will represent Dalhousie in | The first speaker, as mentioned
the second intercollegiate debate of | above, is B. K. Sandwell on Friday,
the’ year, against St. Thomas Col-| Mtrch 13th, at 8.15 p.m., in the
lege, Chatmas, N. B., on the affir-| Chemistry Theatre, Dalhousie Unimative of the subject, “Resolved| versity. The lecture is open to the
that Canada is saat teen and there is no admission
fee.

 
 

a followed by a presentation | Scene after scene and only in the
Paes rds. The day’s entertainment closing moments of the play did it
concluded with a dance to| Show any signs of faltering. 
cof ferry Naugler’s or-| Kay Robinson turned in her usual
faultless performance, but her acting was limited by the fact that she
had to follow a more or less stere- |
, otyped pattern. Tommy Rogers

fitted into his part well and at

times, wher. not overshadowed by |

      
         
    
      

 

    
   

  

This remarkably candid photogfaph shows members of the cast
‘as they were snapped backstage bé@ween acts by Don Oland. From
Bie . -., ,. | left to right: Miss Jacqueline Fowlfr, Nancy Berringer, Kay Robert| Fred Forbes, stole scenes with his) son.Boh Webster, Tom Rogers, B& Bishop and Doshie Stairs.
MAtGRREeSS (Gn «spontaneity Ne ee a. Thats Oe ee a ange ec Conscious".
' ie a Ree ak ek ie : + ir pe

   
 
 
 
  
 

  
  
   
    
 

   
 
  
 
  
 
  

   
  

      
    

   

ree "ee
iy ea Pe Ue
i + —_ salt a I a
ea. ay 7. ae

a a Bi
7 » a e. i
a 1 Le sag . £7, :

a Ue a i]

: w=
7 A ee

     

    

ol

5
ie
ie A

me
a

ny
ag

— ay
' ee a \

   

_

  

.
 
   
     
    
     
  
   
    
         
      
     
     

rat, ; $ ie os = _
____ Founded 1869— “The Oldest College Paper in America”
_ The views expressed in' any column of THE GAZETTE are those of

_ the author; it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of
pe the Student Body:

 

Se A

 

GAZETTE

tor: JOHN W. GRANT

 

STAFF.

ye ONY ace ost Me “B-B576
News Editor: ATS. FORSYTH - de Pale P's! 14 V29B6
Features Editor: JOHN TASMAN ea Ae, ove) SSBEO7
Sports Editor: AL MACLEOD Pea eet te at Me -  B-8576
Literary Editor: LOUISE BISHOP - - - - ~-  B-9746
_  ©.U.P. and Exchange: DON BLACK - : : “ B-5043
Proof Editor; DAVID COLDWELL- - - - - _ B-8576
_ _ Laison Editor; WALLACE OGILVIE - =.) =. = | B-6568
_ Circulation Manager: BOB McCLEAVE - - - - B-8576
Business Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD ees one

_ ‘Staff Photographer: DON OLAND
_ A SPORTSMAN, A SCHOLAR, A GENTLEMAN

A university is not intended to exist in a vacuum or to
carry out its many functions for no purpose. Much as appearances sometimes bely the fact, the collegian is being trained
for something. What the college graduate should not be was
_ well exhibited in the personality of “Big-hearted Herbert’.
_ What he should be is a little harder to define, but for Dalhousie
students the ideal has been typified by Jimmy Malcolm. Each
year one or more graduating student is selected by the Malcolm Honour Award Committee as exemplifying in fullest degree those qualities which belonged in such measure.to Jimmie
Malcolm. He was known as a sportsman, a scholar, and a gentleman; those qualities we look for in the college graduate.
(And, despite any impression the Gazette may have given, we
repay them with the Malcolm Honour Award, not with membership on the Award Committee). Let us, if we can, be more
specific as to what sort of graduates we are interested in turning out.
The ideal graduate should be a sportsman. He should have
a sense of honour which gives him more than an academic interest in student affairs. The number of students who dabble
a in campus politics or who take part occasionally in campus
| ___ societies is quite large; the number who keep student organi izations on their feet is pitifully small. And the true sports/  +man will have interests beyond his own college, even beyond
eh his own country. He will not place himself or his own interests
____ at the centre of the universe. The sportsman will have a keen
Mie. sense of fair play. He will be capable of great indignation
+ against wrong when he sees it and he will consider it a duty
and a privilege to right it where possible.
_ The university graduate should be a scholar. That is not
a to say that he should bury himself in his books for a lifetime
an or that he should become a specialist. There is nothing quite
| __- so tragic, however, as an illiterate university graduate, and
| there are plenty in that category. The university man should
| be well informed, acquainted not only with current affairs but
\ with the wisdom that has been accumulated by the human
__¥ace. He should also have a mental discipline which will en_ able him to weigh what he reads and what he hears. He should
be an intelligent sceptic, neither believing credulously the views
of his time or of his circle nor rejecting groundlessly what
others have seen good reason to accept, but sifting the true
from the false and following the truth where he sees it.

- The university graduate should be a gentleman. Gentlemanliness is not a quality greatly stressed in wartime. It is
too closely linked in popular estimation with rules of courtesy
{to which no disrespect is intended) and with the sort of
clothes which are not practicable in a munitions factory or on
a battlefield. But lack of gentlemanliness has placed us in a
position of great danger. The opposite of a gentleman is a
snob, and snobbishness, expressed towards Japanese and In_dians, has proven very costly. Frenzied efforts to evacuate
white men from conquered territory, along with callous disregard for the safety of Chinese, have not been indicative of 2
gentlemanly attitude, and they have come close to wrecking
our chances for success in the Far East. An army of gentlemen, even gentlemen with outlandish accents and rough man
_ ners, could accomplish wonders in the line of discipline and
_ enthusiasm.

Gentlemanliness is the recognition of the rights of others

as fellow men. A little more of it at international e¢onferences
, might have saved peace; a little more at Kirkland Lake might
x: ie pein the workers of Canada readier to co-operate in the war
_ effort.
Gentlemen of the stuffed-shirt variety we know well
ot enough, and we are heartily sick of them; the university must
: produce the real thing if it is to justify itself. Canada has
suffered much from university men of the “bound-ot-rise”
fae description, who have considered success their right and have
i) not begrudged the rest of humanity to the devil. Gentlemen
| would not treat such a privilege so.

Another class is headed towards graduation. A class of
Sportsmen, scholars, and gentlemen? Or a class cf self-seekers,
armed only with the sort of knowledge which will be useful for
personal advancement, and seeing no more than the corner of
things lighted by their own rising stars? Which?

4 i

je

 

._ Pie
all ia

 

Po

AND AN EDITOR

Last week we wrote an editorial on this year’s Gazette.
Now our preoccupation is with next year’s. According to the
constitution of the Dalhousie Gazette it is the duty of the
Editor to submit to the Council the name of his recommended
successor. So far the field appears to be clear, as several who

might otherwise apply are not returning to college.
E Sometimes the job of the Editor appears to be largely a
matter of using paste and scissors. But what is wanted is not
Merely a skilful handler of paste and scissors. The Gazette
needs someone with an interest in both student and world
. affairs, a considerable social vision, and above all a ferocious
temper ready at all times to burst into fire at the thought of
some perversion of justice, preferably one committed by the
Students’ Council. Also quite necessary is a knowledge of
Dalhousie. On this point, as a 1938 graduate, this year’s
Editor has been considerably handicapped, and we have felt

Page SK gs kee

a
\

:
erg

hy
oa

——

«measures up in some degree to these qualifications,

__ be pleased to see him (or her). We promise or recommendati
)  .. Ve pleased t I endation
hi, > ad one, but we do feel some responsibility in the matter.

iBigyrus tar i Neg

A ba wee dv ol
, a i “

 

a
Yai.

’ ae. =e F i y - ii

ee hh is iL ; oe. si

, yr a Bee) i) eae a
Wee? DE HORS

« LITERARY

handicap every week. No editor can be perfect. If anyone
we should,

ae Py
aa i

Teel at r

AZ

     
 

et er) See ee ee
v ! ‘s % ‘i ae

ETTE

 

THE INNER LIGHT *
I’ve spent an hour in agony of soul,
My spirit writhing in mortal pain,
My secret pride, my courage, all but
slain
By failure: I have failed to reach
my goal.

But once again my being may be
whole; .

For there’s a balm to heal the
wounced heart,

To mend the courage broken quite
apart;

Though sears remain imprinted on
the soul. ;

Yet will it grow and spread itself

again,

As flowers grow and blossom after
rain

Has beaten them, and crushed them
to the earth.

Young souls and flowers — storms
may wound them both,

But none can quite destroy the
eager growth

Confined within the seeds that gave
them birth.

AUGURY |

I placed my hand upon thine arm
today

And walked along with thee a little
way,

And, O, my Love! this world and
life were gay!

We reached our journey’s end, and
with a sigh

I turned to thee to say a swift goodbye;

The moment darkened as you lingered by.

It but foretold a parting soon to be,

When I must stand and watch thee
go from me

And keep pent up the tears I’d shed
for thee.

Tonight, my Love, the world and all
are darkThere comes no singing
from the twilit lark,

And my heart’s flame has dwindled
to a spark,

YOUR EYES

My dearest dear, you have such
common eyes,
Their color, either blue, or green,
or grey,
Must change, I think, to match your
mood each day;
For, noting them as often as I may,
I could not be so doubtful otherwise.

Quite ordinary is their shape and
size,
And casual is their expression, too;
I have explored them thoroughly,
and do
Not find a a single feature of them
new.
And yet a strange enchantment in
them lies.

Always. their glance stirs me _ to
glad surprise,
For lurking in their depths I’m sure
I see
The proof that you’re a bit in love
with me—
And sweeter reassurance cannot be
Till at your first kiss all my doubt
ing dies.

DAY DREAM

Your smile, that was missing all
day,

Has been haunting my dream.

Though you and your laughter are
gone,

Ever present they seem

While I sleep, and the night slumbers on

’Neath the moon’s silver gleam.

I wake to discover one boon,

That if never again

Yourself or your sweet smile I see,

This will lighten my pain—

When my eyes close in sleep you
come back,

In my heart to remain.

A dull resentment glowing in my
breast.

That my frail happiness in this first
teest

Should need thy presence to ensure
its rest.

 

Last Man Around The World

In the first place it is rather
unfortunate that Margaret Halsey
might not have been “The Last Man
Around the World’. Instead it was
not she, or Dorothy Parker, but
Stephen Longstreet, and unfortunately, he chose to write about it.

Now Mr. Longstreet is not a particularly good writer. If anything
he is guilty of one unpardonable
sin,x—commonplaceness. And it is
evident even before the first port of
eall that he is definitely not very
enthusiastic. So that the whole
painstaking, irksome account is a
methodically brief, and uninspirational hodge-podge of black and
white surface reflections.

As matter of fact, I have a
sneaking suspicion that Mr. Longstreet never took a world-cruise in
the first place. As for Bali, he
says: ® THs just like the steamship
booklets.” Now whatever that may
be, it is certainly not original. But
Mr. Longstreet is highly deceptive.
and to one’s complete astonishment
with little or no warning, he will
write:

“Japan can be very beautiful, but
it isn’t, except at odd moments.
The world came to her door and
broke it down, and the little peonle
went out and were dazzled by what
they saw. They came back and have
never been the same since.” Certainly that alone is well written,
even though the rest of the book
is not. ‘
' Perhaps I was over enthusiastic,
thought I confess now toe a growing
dishke of travel journals. The
world is a great, enormons, fascinating melting-pot, and it is

a

 
 
   
   

little cameras rarely see the
values, or if seeing them, rea di
preciate them. In lands of
and hunger, and rape, there is
ways the comforting thought t
within safe distance on board s
there is luxury, and ease, and

 

fort, — telephones, and radios, and
air conditioning. So that Mr. Longstreet’s book is without true value,
or focus, or wit, or originality.

But perhaps I am not being altogether fair. It is true that Mr.
Longstreet’s book “fairly rushes
ahead”, without much effort or concentration. But on one score alone
he deserves justice, for he knew
that he was watching, and sincerély
believed he was recording a world
that was fast ending; and he told of
rot, and decadence, complacency and
dissatisfaction. Strangely contrasted were Germany and Japan, —
shrewd, desperate, efficient, and
dangerously cunning. And though
he saw it all, and perhaps realized
more than many, he, too, was
strangely indifferent, and told ,it
with reluctance.

The final chapters are pathetically
sad and tragic, and there is in his
tone a vague uneasiness that the
world is looking towards him, and
his great nation for succulence and
peace.

And yet there is not much food}

for thought. Mr. Longstreet was
too late. It is irritating to look
back upon our inefficiency and complacency, and to wish only that it
might have been otherwise. But
this will get me no place. I have
a mess of Latin todo...
La. MN.

Orchestra

Ol

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032.

mytottenls cae +

a eee

  
     
       

  
     

 

IF THE VENUS DE MILO COULD TALK—

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

 

 

| Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

HALIFAX

 

 

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN
46 Granville St.

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating . , . It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

The Lure of
Precious Stones

For thousands of years
mankind‘ has treasured
precious stones.

They are precious because they combine
beauty to charm, durability to preserve the
beauty and rarity to
keep it above the commonplace.

A visit to Birks will tell
its own story.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED
Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society
Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

       
   
   
           
       
     
       

of M.A., M.Se

the courses.

 

Halifax, N. S.

Nova Scotia

 

Dalhousie Aniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
{Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.
Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B. Mus., Phm. B,
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized Standing, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships,

The Professional Faculties

tow Meld ut
aw, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,
in the B.Sc. course,

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

   
  
    

_— . 77.
i : mt

March 7th, 1942

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED

O

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

CO)

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

 

 

     
  
 
  
 
 
   

WELCOME
TO
DALHOUSIE

OC

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

on entrance and through

average about $160 a year.
about $190 a year.

    

   
  

 
  
 

   

‘aS y=.

‘ment and Consolation of the Frosh and others, preplexed by the Disturb
True University Ideal: the Complete College Man. We have endeavored
to aid the Oppressed toward a better understanding of their classes, with
 eonsiderations for all who contemplate continuing their Training at the
_ University. There remains but one further Consideration, and that of
Supreme Significence— the selection of your Ultimate College Career.

well as the Registrar, commits the common fallacy of supposing that

 

Tae Primary Object of this series has been the Ultimate Enligten
 

    
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ing Cemplexities of their Course. We have offered some modicum of
Technical advice on all matters of any Import, striving always towards the

Tke Frosh will be warned that he will find little solace in the Official
Calendar, for this deals only in the Abstract. The Official Calendar, as

everyone who comes to the University knows what he wants to do, be, or
emerge as. This is not only Disturbing, but Decidedly Dangerous, since
Psychology has proven time and time again that “nobody knows anything,
especially College Students”. For this reason, great care must be exercised
in Sefecting your Ultimate Course, since it will have such Influence on
your later actions, to a high Degree.

It is not uncommon to see young High School Students enter the
University, fraught with High Ideals regarding the profession of Engineering. They are filled with Vain Dreams of standing Knee Deep in
mysterious swamps, pampas, doldrums, ete,, glamorously directing the
erection of some Monument to their skill with a Slide-rule. It is not long
after the beginning of the term that these Students find their Ideals lying
at their feet, like Peanut Shells in a Theatre Balcony, mourning for the
happier times they knew. It is interesting to note that these Students
eventually end their careers as Dentists, switching, in the nick of time,
from Bridges to Bridgework. Thus it is Relatively Important that the
student should exercise great care in selecting his Course, that vis tai as
dreadful as described above should befall.

We hereby offer, them, for any who might be still in doubt regarding
their Future at the University, our Special Course Selector, taking into
consideration all personal errors, omissions, defects, etc. To make the
best use of this feature, scrutinize yourself, find your weak points, and
then look it up on our Chart, to find the course you are best suited to.

Super Course Selector, (Pat. Pend., Panned, Etc.)

Weak In:

Languages {Foreign) .........-. Divinity.
English ....... shai 3,5 Rip bee Wale wa. Engineering
CMORBIGERY, 5 nce Ur c's of aiaie Chee OA Medicine.
PHYSICS, Biology eis oe hee ene es Pharmacy
DEDTHOMIRUIC | 65's oe Wiaiglp bids Sore ewe Law.

HOGG) esses SOUL NIG Sra Gee pl aa Ba} Arts.

The student will notice that there is no provision made for Science.
This is due to the fact that Science Students are mainly Condemned Arts
students, with drag. In a like manner, Dentistry gets rejects from Engineering, as previously shown, and certain other Classes contribute their
share as well. If you are unable to make any selection, do not be discouraged, because, as a final resort you can always take Commerce, given,
in Some mysterious way to those who come to College to play Hockey, and
other sports. '

Thus it is to the Ultimate Interest of everyone to select the proper
Course, before finding himself Clutched in the Inexorable Toils of some
Course entirely unsuited to his needs, capabilities or ambitions, which,
besides being Psychologically Unsound, is ‘expensive as well.

 

hangovers.
here’s a recipe for a cure or kill drink which is personally guaranteed to
set you on your feet (with apologies to ‘Esquire’).
Vodka, 4 to 8 ounces of tomato juice as per taste, 1 teaspoon Lea & Perrins, juice of half lime or half lemon, and shake lustily with ice.

Pe ak |

gm i étie:

Well, my dears, as I requested last week, all of you seem to have
been trying to behave yourselves and most of my letters are old ones

-although there are a few current requests for advice. Not even two

of the Hall girls seem to have been at a suburban party last Thursday; no one was bad at the Sigma Chi formal or the Engineering banquet (see the T-Square and the Glee Club show was very tame but
there are some troubles.

My first letter this week comes from a sober voune army officer,

Lt. H. Reardon, who sends along an urgent request for the much sought
after, first five approaches.
tune would be made.
girl but I think I can help you in this particular case.
should-try the following advice.

My dear boy if I really knew these, my forHowever, a great deal depends on the individual
All interested

1. Arrange an introduction thru a mutual friend or by calling on
her and telling her that you’re quite a Cassanova and it’s probably
the only chance she'll have to meet you, then make your first date

. a movie,

2. Call for her. on time by taxi or with a new car, and escort her
to the theatre, falling all over yourself to be polite and don’t mind
if she has seen the feature before and tells you all about it. Give her
something to eat and talk philosophy and current events, getting
her home on time.

3. Arrange it so you can meet her in the Gym store next day
and make a big fuss over her ignoring everybody else, they’ll understand, and make your next date for a supper dance.

4. Go to the Supper dance on a Saturday night, as it’s less crowded, and you'll be practically alone. Take a good supply of liquor and
get really plastered so she'll see you at your best. If you haven’t drunk
before don’t let it bother you for if you get sick it adds to the effect
and when you pass out it gives her lots of time to think, if she doesn’t waltz off with some sub-lieutenant, right away.

5. If you recover on Sunday, rest up and then call on her on
Monday to receive the verdict. If she doesn’t mention it, she’s one
in a million and probably crazy, so beat a hasty retreat. If she says
she doesn’t like your friends it doesn’t mean a thing and spend the
evening convincing her you’re a swell guy (it won’t' be hard), then
kiss her goodnight and you’re all set. If she proceeds to lecture you,
carry on, take a sheepish exit, date her for three days later and then
you can set the wedding day.

The next fifteen letters, are from weary souls who request aid for
This is not exactly lovelorn advice but it quite timely so

1 large hooker of

Well, my darlings, behave yourselves on Munro Day and if you get

in trouble, I’ll try to help you.

Helpfully yours,

Sa a

SSS

Among: others, the Glee Club show

SS

all we hear. Norrie was there, also.

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Watchboid

(Apologies to Munro Leaf)

      

brought out of retirement, we noticed the former playboy, Pinky Smith.

The watchboid reports no boozies
this week at all. How wonderful-but
We didn’t think Newfoundlanders we imagine he evidently doesn’t
had such an effect, judging by the come out at night.

representatives on this campus, but | +. >

then we suppose he was just being We would like to take exception
polite to his guests or was he? to the remark made on Sunday

 
   
 
 
  
  

     
   
  

;
ars

Bi

 

This here is a Blasé

Were You

   

iTSQUARE

To ¢hose interested we can say
that we had a very successful ban
quet, even to the cocktails, ask any
one who can remember! Some were

glad to note the presence of that

dear personality, Aunt Effie.
‘Congrats to Robert Wilcox—the
Bob Walter Award indeed tops off

a fine college record.

_ Bill Harris said that he was going

to at THAT corner table, but even
__ HE ecouldn’t absorb enough. We will
“ti ignore those who found themselves

in so high ‘spirits’.
‘There was no danger of Dunham

signing any bad checks—he couldn’t

even sign his name.
Mussett’s behavior was amazing,
eer slightest sign of being

This Week?

 

 

  

This here is a Watchboid
watching a Blasé

 
   
 
 

 
 
 
 

a Blasé

    
     
  

2.0)

NO

    

|cr-- (oops—we promised never to

say that of him again).

Does anyone know why the gay
young blades (that includes Wilson)
didn’t even bother with the Sucker
Dance? Maybe they aren’t as dumb
as they use to be. Speaking of the
Supper Dance, we wonder how Johnny Rogers ever made it.

What was this we heard the other
week about a guy named ‘Skinner’
taking a young lady to dinner, etc.?

Who is the doll that Don Matheson chases around the Arena every
session?

Everybody seems to have a large
store of misinformation about Wiswell—as soon as we get something
definite on just who he’s after we'll
let you know,

All the engineers send their best
wishes to Dave Burgoyne who is in
hospital—hepe to have you back
around the drafting-room soon, Dave
—the arguments just aren’t the
same anymore. —

‘ing steady. But now its more than
mene coincidence for even the fresh-ettes are being seen there, to whit,

nite to a group of Med. students,

If a course in Medicine is “Draft
Dodging”, give me the Army,
though “Soup Kitchens” at Shir
bert was very appropriate for the
off-stage lives of some of the characters. Alice, (really Roz Marcus), must have been thinking of
Gordon H., when she remarked
“He’s not a bit tike the other boys
I’ve played around with.” What’s
this Hennigar guy got anyway?
% x x

; Bs Ht *
The script of “Big Hearted Her|

It has been mentioned in this col-_
umn before about the popularity of.
the Lord Nelson Hotel for those go- |

Sue Morse and companion. Give us
a break and spill the secret about the
big attraction there as it ain’t exactly the chtapest eatery in town.

at a %

We have no objection with people drinking in other people’s parked cars during Gym dances if they
would refrain from leaving quart
rum bottles on the seats unless .
they are full.

Boring company is no excuse to
hit the bottle, my dear Hall girls,
Despite the navy, Irma, we think
you were sober for we dont believe

TUESDAYS
* Glande Rlthon*
Buckingham

CIGARETTE PROGRAM

  
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 

   
    

Shoes
for Spring

You will find at Wallace
Bros. a bright new line of
men’s and ladies’ shoes.

Wallace Bros.

FOOTWEAR

  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  

ORPHEUS

Friday and Saturday

GENE AUTREY
“COWBOW SERENADE”
and Three Swell Shorts

s
Monday, Tuesday, Wednes,

“A YANK ON THE
BURMA ROAD”

and Three Swell Shorts

ri \

   

 
  
 
   
  

 
 
  

415 BARRINGTON ST.

   
  
    

by the Overseer at Shirreff Hall. .

reff Hall mightn’t be a bad idea. |

 

 
   
  
    
      
  
     
    
   
 
   
      
  

yet oar is
ro ay

me

ce
Sy

 
   

     
       

 
 

| like about
CE Le

‘Som Fa ee eee

 
   
   
       
  
 

    
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  

wilt eee

Go refreshed Everybody wants the real

thing for his money. That’s
fe. ice-cold “Coca-Cola”. It
| has quality, the quality
f of genuine goodness .. .

ed | Ftaste, the taste that
pie : =A charms and never cloys

TRADE iat hi

     
    
    
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
    
  
    
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
    

    
    
 

(ZA »-. refreshment, complete
= refreshment. Thirst asks

| nothing more.
You trust its quality .

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

5644 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

LIMITED
FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

WHEN PAUL REVERE RODE.

Waiting on the outskirts of Charlestown, Mass., Paul Revere

fixed his eyes on the moonlit tower of the old church. Suddenly
the light of a lantern pierced the darkness—then another, and
Paul Revere galloped off into the night, calling the sleeping
ccuntryside to arms as he rode.

Today Canadians need no midnight rides like Paul Revere’s.
We turn to our telephone in every emergency.

It is a fast service backed by ample facilities, producing

quick action.

You lift your receiver and send your voice by telephone to
all parts of the. province and nation in a matter of seconds.

MARITIME TELEGRAPH & TEL5PHONE
COMPANY, LIMITED

 

a

The New

CASINO

Starting Sat., March

*
ABBOTT

    

Players Theatre
FRIDAY —- SATURDAY

*

Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.

pied GIR conti

“THE CORSICAN

BROTHERS” and
" COSTELLO

Frederic March
Loretta Young

‘BEDTIME STORY”

“Ride ’Em
Cowboy”

 

 

OXFORD

Monday - Tuesday
‘PARACHUTE BATTALION’
“FATHER TAKES A WIFE”

&
Wednesday - Thursday

“UNHOLY PARTNERS”
“MAN AT LARGE”

    

[ITN
Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

“JOE SMITH, AMERICAN”
Starring Robert Young
and Martha Hunt

and “MATA HARI”
Starring Greta Garbo

®. a}
Friday - Saturday Wed. - Thurs. - Friday
“DUMBO”

“Sing Your Worries Away

“THE GAY FALCOM” and “Gentleman at Heart”

The NATIONAL FISH CO.

 

 

 

  
 
 
 

    
       
       
     
       
   
     
  
     
   
     

   
   
  
    
  
   
    

     

Fre a Ti me
| a7 ga , -*
      
 
  

By"

‘et

q

bd TS

 

a an : oa
* - .
~*~.

  
 

'

5
.

ie

ae

 

sonata ~ maha tie at
RLS Tt MIE ad a
e r .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

fey and a foul shot to take a 7-0 lead

       
  

  

— —
Le saa fief; es
r =i pod
a) Peete ae. eT Rat et
en a ie Ne ae TPA
‘i hee wes
“* ™* re 5
I ham i
Fees :

ote lie "ate rT z
ot ; vo 4 FF Ms ay A

s &* *&* &
Se te : s she ;
Masters of Their Fate
Two Games Straight
. Second Game

In the second game of the series
the Tigers posted their fourth victory of the season over the sailors
and, by taking the game by a 42—
85 score, won the City Léague
y| Championship and the provincial

| championship.

It was a rough contest all the
way, but the issue was never in
1-| doubt after half time, as the Bengals established their lead and held
it. Dalhousie’s starting five of Wilson, Smith, Forsyth, MacKenzie and
MacLeod, tallied 35 of the Tigers’
total, with the winning margin being contributed by Dunbrack and
Ralston.

The collegians again demonstrated
the tight defense they have built
around Wilson and Smith, and waited until late in the game before
they hit their scoring stride. Forsyth and McKenzie worked well up
front, notching ten points between
them, and working some pretty
combinations with MacLeod.

Dalhousie: McKenzie, 4; Dunbrack, 3; Forsyth, 6; MacLeod, 15;
Wilson, 8; Webber, Smith, 2; Mac
 

  

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Im the first half, things looked
‘bad for a few moments, when, with
the opening whistle the Navy forward line ratled in thgee baskets

within two minutes. But it didn’t
take long to make up that deficiency. Ben Wilson moved down
from his guard position to lay up
two nice scores, and Al MacLeod
tipped in a rebound, and the teams
were again on even terms. From
that point to the end of the half,
the lead see-sawed back and forth,

    
 

Ta

with neither team ever having more

than a two-point advantage. With

the half-time whistle, however, the
Tigers held a 21-20 advantage.

The second half opened at a fast
clip, with the Benagls settling down
to the business of scoring points.
Quick baskets by Wilson, Forsythe
and Smith put the team in the lead,
and after that there was no holding
them. As the Tiger advantage
grew larger by virtue of the smart
basketball being played, the crowd
of students who had turned out were
caught with enthusiasm, and cheered
the Dal quintet on to victory. Ben
Wilson played an outstanding game
from his guard position, leading the

' scorers of both teams with 16 points,
and putting on a really magnificent
exhibition of, basketball. But the
teamwork demonstrated by the

‘Tigers was the factor that proved
decisive, as it has in each game the
team has played this year.

Forsyth, 6; McKenzie; MacLeod,
13; Wilson, 16; Smith, 7; Dunbrack,
4; Webber, MacDonald.

 

    

Imagine a pencil line
thirty-five miles long!
Well, the lead in every
MIKADO pencil will
make a distinct black
line over 35 miles long
by actual test. MIKADO
is miles ahead of other
pencils in durability,
also in strength and
smoothness it leaves’
them far behind.
Se each — 60c per doz.
. MADE IN CANADA

    
  

Donald, Ralston, 4.

Meds Trim Lawyers

The lawyers and the medicos tangled in an interfaculty hoop fixture
last week, and when the smoke of
conflict had cleared away, a jubilant host of embyonic doctors were
proclaiming their 27-21 victory.

It was the first actual meeting of
the two basket squads this season,
and proved to be an exciting match.
In the first half, play was even,
with “Junior” LeMoine tallying eight
points for the lawyers and Harry
Oxorn and Joe Cantwell setting up
ten points for the medicinemen. At
half time the score read Meds 10-9.

In the second half Oxorn and Art
Merecer went on a scoring spree,
getting three baskets each, while
Joe Cantwell came through with a
couple more to boost his individual
point total to ten. Al Gardner provided the only scoring punch that
Law could muster in this half, marking up nine points single-handed.
Ted Rettie scored two points and
LeMoine poked in a free throw, but
the Meds were holding tenaciously
to their six point advantage, and so
the game ended.

..Law—LeMoine, 8; Jones; Gardner,
11; Nieman; Rettie,2.

.. Meds—Mercer, 6; Bethune; Oxorn,
11; Perlin; Cantwell, 10; Fraser.

 

Basketbelles Lose

What happened in the Dal gym
last Saturday afternoon only goes
to show that most women aren’t
much good unless there are some
men around. Take that Dalhousie
girls versus Acadia girls’ basketball game, for instance. It was
Scheduled to begin at one o’clock,
and at that hour all of Dalhousie’s
manpower was drawn up in khaki
array awaiting the opening whistle.
But the women were late—as usual.

When finally they did get under
way, however, with the entire C.O.
T.C. and A.T.C. cheering them on,
the Tigerettes did some fancy basketball playing. They held the lead
for about ten minutes with the
scoreboard showing a Dalhousie 7-4
advantage at the end of the first
quarter,

But then all of a sudden it’s 1345
hours (quarter to two to you civilians), and men-in-khaki hear the

| strident call to arms. And while they

paraded out of the door, Dalhousie’s
women lost their pep, vim and vigor,
They resumed play, but they had
lost their driving power. No longer
could they stage rallies under the

Acadia basket and pile up points |
while their men looked admiringly |

on. The very life left them, and they

tallied only two more baskets during |

the remainder of the game, while

the Acadiaettes were getting eleven. |
It wasn’t even close. And though |
Mary McKeigan, Vera Crummey and

Anita Reid did all the Dal seoring,

there wasn’t enough of it to make |

the game even interesting. And
though the girls don’t like to be reSecond

 

ef ee :
Pare a ye ae vy

eT aee er Lei 1 Up Ap CaN A alae SY
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Provincial Hoop Title

SPORT Spice

By AL MacLEOD

The Spring is sprung,

The grass is riz:

I wonder where the flowers is?
The little boid is on the wing;
Why, dat’s absoid—

I thought the wing was on the boid!

Ah, the beautiful Spring! That time in the student’s life
when the sun begins to shine more brightly, when soft breezes
play about his head, when he longs to sit and dream of sweet,
sweet inactivity. ’Tis then, with the earth beginning to burst
with loveliness, and all nature calling him to the great out-ofdoors, that the student tucks his mantle about him, and bends
him over his books. Away, then, with all thoughts of hockey,
basketball, archery, badminton, and the other athletic trivia
which has engaged him during the winter semester. ’Tis time
to dwell or more sober, sombre things as: “Who did what, and
why ?”, confining your answer to three pages. Ah yes, with
all the earth green and lovely, Dalhousie, too, prepares for its
spring plowing. .. .

: kK a “ we

People who are returning to Dal next year, thinking that
athletic activity will be greatly reduced, will be to a certain
extent thinking correctly. But the result of the recent Student
Council presidential election indicates that the majority hope
it will not be dispensed with entirely. Undoubtedly present
trends indicate that registration will be lower, and revenues
consequently fewer, but it is obvious that the D.A.A.C. must
not be allowed to become a functionless figurehead. No matter
how hard the going, from this corner it would appear to be a
great mistake to discard athletics entirely. To attempt to cut
expenses is laudable; but it must always be remembered that
the “sound mind in a sound body” precept still holds a lot of
truth. To wipe a university athletic programme off the slate
with one quick, heavy-handed brush would hardly prove beneficial to the university, its students, or the war effort.

What might well be recommended would be a greatly
stepped-up program of interfaculty and intramural sports,
which would be necessarily inexpensive, and highly productive
of a lot of things that are so obvious we needn’t list them here,

Apparently it has alréady been decided by people who expect to have the say-so, that next year will produce no meals
either for football or basketball teams. And that means that
Dalhousie has seen its last year as an outstanding entry in the
provincial sporting sphere. For football practices and basketball practices can never be held at hours which are convenient
for players to have their meals at their homes. So it all boils
down to the simple proposition: no meals—no teams.

But while we look with foreboding to Dal’s athletic future,
we can nevertheless be more than satisfied with the showing
made in this past year. The rugby team was outstanding, as
was the basketball team, which is in process of winning the
provincial championship, and perhaps the Maritime championship. In hockey there was slightly less success from the wonlost point of view, but nevertheless the pucksters made a showing that was a remarkable improvement over past years.

So if this is the last “good” year for a long time—at any
rate it was great while it lasted.

SR aM Rete RaeBlet  eieel ie
defeat this season by Acadia. And NOTICE

that record doesn’t look so good Championships for
when compared with the boys. For
Dal’s men defeated Acadia twice in
football, twice in basketball and
once in hockey.

Too bad the boys couldn't have
stayed. The girls probably would
have won. But there’s always another year, even though the baskétbelles will be a year older—and that
might cramp their style, if anybody
were to find out about it.

 

will be declared next week, when the
annual tournament gets under way
at the Waegwoltic Club. Entrance
fee is twenty-five cents for one event
or thirty-five cents for all events,
proceeds of fees and gate receipts
to be given to the Queen’s Canadian
Fund. All interested are asked to
communicate with Colin Smith,
(S-2989) for further information.

aes hsheeeeneesbenresener-o~enneseets _

   
 
 

Halifax and)
District in the sport of ping-pong |

q

") ES. UO Ngee eb,

 

DALHOUSIANS:

for your

TOILET ARTICLES
MEDICINES
PERFUMERY
‘' CHOCOLATES
KODAKS
CIGARS

YOU SHOULD PATRONIZE

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

ame BE

490 BARRINGTON STREET
LORD NELSON HOTEL

fe
ee
3

ie

re

a
—

 

YOUR SUITS WILL

100k NEWER.
When They Go To Cousins

 

  
     
 
 

Regular Y

There’s nothing like it to make fabrics sparkle,
to keep them feeling soft and fresh, to maintain
shapely, stylish lines. A good wartime practice
is: Buy fewer clothes—send what you have to
Cousins often.

  

LIMITED

CLEARERS LAUNDERERS DYERS STORAGE

    
 

Ae ee |

ki MAUR Nd ee TH, VF é

TOs

i TT) 29 TTR 3

COUNT

 

 

and remember—
EXTRA TROUSERS

mn

are only $495 pair!

‘Thrift’? Made-to-Measure Suits are hand-cut to your
individual measurements, in EATON’S own Clothing
Shops!... your assurance that the workmanship is qualityfirst! ‘‘Thrift’’ woollens offer scores of English and Canadian weaves .. . in good-looking Worsteds as well as
popular Tweeds! See them! Make your seleetion now
for Spring .. . and Easter!

Budget Plon Terms may be arranged, if desired.

 

 

1942

 

 

 
