| ay The Ubyssey_ path ‘the difficulty
* of Japanese students at the unisent and prints a letter from the
5 a of the Japanese student so
intaining the loyalty of this

ee pea generation of Japanese to
_ the country. The Ubyssey also car“ried a news story on the Japanese
students training with the 0.T.C.
turning in their uniforms. Some
citizens were so incensed at seeing
the students in uniform at Van_couver that - _was feared that they!
_ would be ¢ ai acked on the streets.

 

 

| Alberta and U.B.C. report pilfering in lockers and cloakrooms. Both
comment upon the lack of effect
higher education has on some people
with a Kleptomaniac touch.

| Ae
|

 

Jabez, that interesting creature
who writes for the Ubussey, had a
few slight difficulties in his Christmas shopping. Last year he gave
-gladioli bulbs. This year he followed a burly housewife through a
rough-and-tumble in a Vancouver
store and arrived at a perfume
counter. .

“Have you any perfume?” I asked the girl behind the counter.

“What about ‘My Sin?’” she asked belligerently.

“Have we met some place?” I
queried, trying to remember her
face.

““My Sin’ is a scent,” she explained testily. “It’s two dollars a
dram.”

I winced. She sprayed some of

_her sin in the air and I ssnuffeed up
about five cents worth.
_ “Haven’t you got any old smell
hanging around called ‘My Slight
__. Misdemeanour’ or something?” I
asked, “at about a buck a pint?”

“The garden sprays are on the
third floor,’ she snapped, and walked away.

 

 

a i i Ge .*
‘Marking Aunt Martha off his list,
Jabez approached a sales girl:
“Pd like to see your lines in
ladies’ underwear,” I muttered, out
of the corner of my mouth.
_ She misinterpreted my manner.
i “Don’t get personal, bub,” she
a snarled.

ak,
ie “oe eae y A tae

 

¥ Jabez retreated.
4 * * *

Returning to the fray, he found
himself behind a counter at which
" they sold ladies’ underwear. After
sy being sold snuggies, huggies (which
wo are longer, like Stanfield’s Red Lak bele) and assorted goods, the sales
be girl sniffed the “My Sin” that hung
over our hero like a thin mantle.

More sales girls descended to
sniff “My Sin”. Jabez was in full |
flight when a stentorian bellow in-|
e formed him: .
ty “Hey! You forgot your panties!”
300 people stopped to look and see
who forgot his panties. To get the
best results with gladioli bulbs...

— SE Se
a
'

   
   
   
  
      
    
   
   
   
      
   
  

 

a

[sx

   

 
  
 
 
 

_

mae |.

—

trainin, Silt aaelyd

° ; eo.
Smith Outsmithed |
Competition for the Bennet Shield |
began last Tuesday when the Sophomores defeated the Junior representatives. They will meet the Frosh
representatives next week to decide
the winner, the Seniors having no
entry. James Stevens and Anita

Rosenblum formed the winning team

and Colin Smith and Kay Martin debated for the Juniors. The Judges
were Profs. J. R. Grant, S. Bate, and
Dr. L. Richter. Ted King, Sodales
president, presided.

While the girls ably argued the
deeper points of the resolution, which
was, “Resolved that Universities
can best further the interests and
needs of students by shortening their

Arts courses from four to two
__—‘years”, Smith and Stevens attacked
pei the once sacred institution called

 

riage, the latter talking about
ury wives, and getting out of
‘Ramee soon to marry and have a
_ family to send to Dalhousie. The
_ affirmative squashed the chief point
egat ive eat two more years

 

I 210t to * outdone,
sn vt awake to the
lege renee he was

 

   

VOL. LXXIV

“THE COLLEGE

~
=

,

~

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 21, 1942

eu.

—_
~~

 

 

No. 20

 

I. S. S. CAMPA

IGN TOPS

TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS

Request Students
Sign at Office

With the announcement that the
Dalhousie campaign has passed the
$200 mark, the local I.S.S. committee
is putting on an extra drive to reach
a $500 objective. Professors as well
as students are being asked for donationss this year. One of them, in
addition to $100 sent direct to
Toronto, marked specifically for
Chinese Students, has boosted the
Dalhousie fund by $50. A group of
professors endorsing and supporting
the campaign is printed below.

Students are being asked to sign
over their caution deposit remnants. Although the drive is behandled by a voluntary comimttee
on the campus, President Stanley,
and Webster Macdonald, student
president, have both offered their
unqualified support.

The situation with regard to
prisoners of war and interned antinazi refugees, has become even more
pressing than last year. Chinese
students particularly, suffer from inereased Japanese bombings and
shortage of food and medical supplies. Education is part of their
government’s war plan.

University of British Columbia
staged a week of ISS events, with
tag-day, international tea, hockey
game and speakers backing it up
with a special issue of the campus.
weekly. Colleges from west to
east are having major drives.

the responsibility of supporting the
campaign rests with all the students.
To assist in covering the campus
fully in the few remaining days, all
persons reading this, if not already
signed on a vouche list, are urgently
requested to seek out one of the committee or call on Miss Robb in the
university office and sign over their
donations.

A

Student Committee:
Ed Morris
Mary Boswell
Marg Farquhar
Bernard Graham *
Webster Macdonald
Isabel McKean
Beth Littlejohns
Mary Doull
John Windebank
Lawrence Read
Grace Burris

Faculty Endorsees:
President Stanley
Prof. Bronson
Prof. Douglas
Prof. Bell

Prof. Wilson
Prof. Curtis
Dr. Atlee
Dean Woodbury

The committee, listed below, feels |

 

Dalhousie Debaters

Trounce St. Thomas

Dalhousie debaters, Walthen Gaudet and Charles O’Connell, with
matchless speaking form, defeated
a team from St. Thomas last Friday night in the Arts building on
the subject, “Resolved that Canada
is Sufficiently War Conscious”. Dal
upheld the affirmative. St. Thomas
was represented by John Brown,
senior, and Michael. McGarrigle,
freshman, at 17 the youngest debater on the floor, who almost
matched the speaking form of
| Gaudet. The judges were M. Ryan,
G. Farquhar and G. Haythorne. Ted
King presided.

Mr. Gaudet opened the debate,
speaking for the affirmative. He
attacked the subject from the standpoint of Canada’s fighting front, and
stating that our contribution was a
test of our consciousness, he produced a mass of statistics about the
war effort. Mr. Brown, captain for
the negative, countered Gaudet’s
proposal’s with the idea that our
war consciousness was determined
by comparing with the powers we
have to beat. He talked about the
wastage of manufacturing strength
through production of much that
could be classed luxuries.

O’Connell followed for Dalhousie,
and showed unexpectedly good form.

—— eae

spend 58% of our national income
‘in taxes, as compared to Britain’s
60%, the German 80%, and the
American 40%. Arguing that “we
have a balanced program, a good
record of achievement, and this by
methods that have not destroyed the
country’s unity”,
undue government measures to speed :
a war effort already satisfactory.
McGarrigle then refuted O’Connell
with statistics that showed the

whole Empire was still two billions
behind Germany in the war effort.
He pointed out that John Canuck
had failed to observe his country’s
appeal to conserve gasoline so that
restrictions will be adopted. Weak

PRISONERS OF WAR
ee ost iliaeee

He talked about Canada’s effort on
the home front, pointing out we}

‘dustry was a wrong way to win a

he spoke against | nointed out that the reason Canadien

 

Salute To United Nations
Features Munro Day Show

—>

Important Man

 

MACDONALD

is in the Gazette for two reasons.
First, he presented the awards on
Munro Day, including the PanHellenic award to Miss Dorothy
Stairs, chosen as the outstanding

WEBSTER

freshette of the year. Second, he
is a member of the I.S.S. campaign committee, as is also VicePresident Bernard Graham.

point in his argument was that
troops from more sections of the
country should have been present at
Hong Kong, inferring that war consciousness from -this defeat was
wasted’ for parts of Canada that had
no soldiers there. However, the soldiers were sent to the colony to win,
not lose.

In rebuttal, Brown made the point
that men entering the army from in
 

war. Walt Gaudet, the last speaker,
| troops in Hong Kong had no ma‘terial was because of enemy underseas craft, and not, as Mr. Brown
had stated, because we were not war
conscious enough to send material
there.

The Intervarsity Fellowship group
invites all Dal students to their gettogether this Sunday.

quem elieraiiainge aii diattiatinniemmniatnetrmstgericteajiliastdilatamagetiiampll
aS

 

The following were presented with

 

Complete with a program of sports

“D”’s at the Munro Day Show by| activities in the afternoon, plus a

Council Pres. Webster MacDonald:

D.A.A.C.—Gold “D’’s
Ben Wilson
A. S. Forsyth
Jack MacKenzie
Jo-jo Feindel
Bob Blois
Don Kirkpatrick
David Doig
John Secrymgeour
Mr. Morrison
D.A.A.C.—Silver “D’’’s
Jack Matthew
Del Gibson
Don Kirkpatrick
Blanchard Wiswell

Glee Club
Don Kirkpatrick
Bill Hagen
Geoff Bagnall
Bernie Levitz
Barbara Sieniewicz
Kay Robinson
Jack Shifley (honorary)
Gazette
Inez Smith
A. S. Forsyth
Al MacLeod
John Tasman

Sodales
Ted King

Walt Gaudet
D.G.A.C

Inez Smith

Mary MacKeigan
Honorary

Ken Jones

BULLETIN!

After consultation with Medical
Faculties of Canadian Universities,
it is planned to give financial assistance by the armed services to medical students who plan to enlist when
their courses are completed. The assistance will make up in part the
financial loss which will ‘be caused
students by shortened vacations.
Assistance will be to $700 yearly,
and in the final years of their course
students will be enlisted, then given
leave with pay and subsistence allowance to gain their licence.

demonstration platoon from the O.
T.C., and a Glee Cub show in the
evening, with the presentation of
awards, capped by a dance, Dal had
a successful Munro Day show.
Probable feature of the day was the
presentation of the James Malcolm
Honour Award to Miss Louise
Bishop, who also received a bouquet
of flowers from the Bridgetown War
Service Club. Stars of the evening
program were a group of soldiers
who sang the more mentionable
verses of “Bless "Em All”, and the
“North Judique Band”, complete in
tartan kilts whether from pyjamas
or scarves.

The afternoon began with a BoyGirl basketball or basketbelle game,
which the Girls captured with a superb display of cosmetics, followed
by Badminton and Table Tennis.
The C.O.T.C. platoon put on an able
demonstration under Lieut. Ken
Jones. The afternoon’s sports ended with the Studley tug-of-war team
captained by Don Kirkpatrick, defeating the Forrest outfit headed by
Mike Smith.

The evening show by the Glee
Club featured “Moose” MacLeod as
master, of ceremonies. This year’s
performance took the form of a
United Nations rally, with thé stage
having) a background of Axis heads
sticking, out of garbage pails, and
falling bombs. After the band and
the song by cadets led by Ralph
Fitch, Lorraine Harper as the Polish
girl, and Dot Graham as the Free
Francaise, opened the United Nations rally with dances. Louise
Bishop as the Canadian girl, and
Adelaide Fleming, for Russia, sang.
Bernard Levitz, the South American,
ably aped Carmen Miranda, and
Barbara Allen and Marjorie Willden
performed in a Dutch dance.

The presentation of awards followed, after Henry Tonning, new
Council President had spoken briefly.
Webster Macdonald passsed them
out ending with the Malcolm Honour
Award which Miss Bishop won.

NOTICE

All Applications For Editorship

of the Dalhousie Gazette must be

in to Murray Rankin, 9844

Edward St., before next Tuesday.

 

»)

DIPO

?

 

 

I. S.S. AIDS WAR PRISONERS

In the world today there are more
than 4,000,000 men in the “Barbed
Wire Legion”. For the most part
these are not professional soldiers,
they are merely the different types
of men who go to make up humanity
—men like us, just ordinary folk
dressed up in uniforms. This is why
imprisonment is so. difficult for
them. Whether soldiers, sailors or
airmen they face a bleak future as
prisoners of war.

Because most of the prisoners are
young men ‘the I.S.S. is answering
the cry for “help” from this legion.
In an effort to help these men uses
the time they must spend in prison
camps constructively, to help them
prepare for the time of release when

‘peace comes, to help keep their
minds fresh, alert and constructive

in spite of the aeuncss of pri
; th e | Ls od nC iN i

international Y.M.C.A. has helped to
establish prison camp universities.
Books, writing materials and other
essential supplies have been provided. There is almost a university
atmosphere in many of these camps
where definite lecture hours and
period have been arranged to keep
the men occupied—to use their time.
Those of the prisoners who have the
qualifications—and there are many
outstanding university men and professors among them — are used to
give lectures in their own fields. el a part of it. The IS.S.
Handicraft work is carried on to act aii: on this campus makes it
as a therapy for body and mind—| pogsible for us to do this.

many of the men learn new tradeg|” “The University of Toronto raised
here. 1} $1012. 60 in less than eight hours—

Music, art, literature—the thin x ‘by voluntary giving—surely we can
we so easily take*for granted ar@iraise ati least $500.00 to help this
denied these men and so the I.S. ork to help men such as Ralph
seeks to agetiad musical ee epeerecn who is at present benefix from pseen. mark £0 -she I. S. s.

help to pass the time and make life
more worth. living.

This service is concerned with living issues—with the need of keeping
the intellects and spirits of young
men such as Ralph Henderson who
went from this University to the air
foree and is now in a prison camp
in Europe alive; with the need of
laying foundations for a new order
based upon mutual understanding.
This. As a work we need to help—
ina fed to give it our support and

  

  
         
   
    
    
  
  
    
      
 
   
   
  
 

    

 
  
  
   
 

 
  
    
 

      
    
  

  

drawin: and pe inting ¢«
u “5 Gu PEAS LALL

Your Opinion of This Year’s Gazette?

87% of the students queried thought this year’s Gazette was pretty
good. The other 13% had no opinion to offer. Two people mentioned particular pages, saying that the Third Page and the Editorials were
proved. Another said he liked the (Tor) Mentor.
ee

Your Opinion of the Glee Club Shows

Bouquets go out to Kirk, for 76% queried thought the shows were
pretty good. The rest didn’t see them, except one individual who said
“Stank”. Having acted as a star in one, we suppose he was singing his
“skunk song”. One girl said the shows were “scrummy”—an adjective
she assured us was derived from “swell” and “nertz”. One volunteered,
“I expected a AYPA comedy farce in three acts, but it was d good,
though the actresses weren’t so hot.” (Reference to “Big-Hearted Herbert”).

.
she

ate
as

 

ee
Do You Think Australia Will Fall to the Japanese?

Remembering past successes in prediction as regards Moscow and
Singapore, this question was asked to see if there was any definite opinion on the Far Eastern situation. 76% thought the Commonwealth would
keep the little grinning serpents away, though with a few reservations
that they might gain a partial foothold. Of the remaining 24%, half
thought it would fall and half had no opinion. One person thought it was
an unpatriotic question, which probably meant a little pessimism about
the whole thing. Another said cheerily, “I said the same thing about
Singapore.” This question was corrupted to “Will they take Newfoundland?” tiwce, but both answered they thought the Nipponese had more
sense. The same was true about Cape Breton.

oe ee ee

Your Opinion On the Ajax Club
75% were for the beer-imbibing hopefuls, while the rest had no opinion (probably drink Scotch). Among opinions, “Great place—I’m going
to join the Navy”; “It’s a gyp that the cancelled the beer regulations”;
“T think it is a perfect example of the shortsightedness of those who
shut themselves away from the world in such institutions as Pine Hill,

ck

| and pa seeing the sordid. They’ re. only a form of fifth columnists,” and

'T acre

| with Ln : Ch b.” e in ay

ae *

’ ‘
     
    

        
     
   
  
    

   
 
 
   
 

   
 
 

    
   
 

Wi Mof the @llege by the Sea
» Paper in America”
GA are those of

    
    

 

a by 3 MeCurds Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St., Halifax

ms oe «GAZETTE STAFF

—.

 

 
  

 
   

   
  
 

- - - B-8576

ditor: - ‘s. FORS RSYTH - - - - - $-2936

yi ‘es Editor: JOHN TASMAN - - - - S-2597

s Editor: AL MACLEOD Se Reon ea EO

y Editor: LOUISE BISHOP - - - - - B-9746

: DON BLACK - . . - B-5043

01 r: DA ‘COLDWELL - = - - - B-8576

i801 1 r: WALLACE OGILVIE - - : - B-6568

ne : ion Manager: BOB McCLEAVE - - - < B-8576
Business Manager: WEBSTER ROP ORALD - - B-0453
Det, ee gees eerap her: DON cae , : - B-9811

 

 
  

 

 
  
  

To You From Falling: Hands...

: In no more than a couple of months now another group of
ms act will graduate from Dalhousie and another bundle of
Bi degrees will be scattered over a wide area. Some honeyey _tongued speaker will no doubt rise up to say, “It is a hard
eee to which you are going out. Nevertheless we older folk
dens rrere on you to save us from the mistakes we made,
This familiar wail is echoed today more insistently in
| iby . Military disasters at Singapore and Rangoon and in
iy pe ae English Channel are being blamed on old men—men who,
re the columnists have been screaming recently, ought to have
a pire ee long ago in favour of youth. The same cry has been
ng heard in the United States, where the old men of Mr. RooseMe -_Yvelt’s cabinet are on trial just as the “nine old men” of the
e | ‘Supreme Court were several years ago. The demands for
younger leadership in both these countries may illustrate
_ nothing more than a passing phase of journalistic fancy. They
ne may, however, show that a youthful aattitude is necessary for
-- guecess in a crisis.
ne More than mere age is Evolved, we believe, i: in the question. You will not win the war by replacing any man of
i _ seventy with any man of fifty, and your chances will be even
Jess if you pick out a random thirty-year-old. We have known
i ‘i amen of seventy or even of eighty whose minds were as active
and as open as that of any youthful radical. On the other
_ hand, we have known adolescents whose mental compartments
were as tightly shut as a Bedeque oyster. When Britons de
 

Wi a

i" as

   
  

r mand youthful leadership, they are telling the world that are

ie

fed up with conservative leadership, that they need men of
ation and vision.
a Canada, although a young country, has been very slow
to grasp the significance of this demand for energy and for
_ youth. We have entrusted our government to men who are
- both old and stodgy, or, in demanding youthful leadership, we
_ have selected men who have hidden under an appearance of
_ boundless energy an almost unbelievable stodginess of ideas,
8 witness Mitchell Hepburn. We have selected as our gov_@rmors men who detest progress because we ourselves fear!
” aimee we elect as our legislators unimaginative old men
E because we are not youhg at heart. We deplore as treason
_ amy endeavour to break the connection with England—often
‘ _™erely because that connection is so long established—but
we do not keep abreast of political developments in England
and are rather shocked to find that some Englishmen prefer
_ the socialist Cripps to the stand-pattist Churchill. We are
Fa a years behind the times, therefore we are fifty years older,
4g ‘than we need to be. |
__ More alarming even than the present state of our leadersy ship is the fact that we are not even developing youthful Ieadership.
_ -vironmen

a a
tn
- om ee

a

 

ee a ae

 

    
    
 

Perhaps it is impossible to be young in an adult ent. Perhaps it is too much to expect to find flaming
_ rebellious youth in a world so chaotic that the first natural
_ thought i is of safety. But, whatever the cause, the depressing
fact is that stodginess and senility may be found even in our
 eolleges. No one could attend a meeting of the Students’
~ Council and find a vision of a new world; no one could .attend
-@ meeting of the student body and have any hope even for a
new Dalhousie. Events are not challenging us as they should
we don’t even attempt to master them, we follow them on
‘maps. Things are in the saddle, and we are not even leading
an opposition to them.
Ny Before putting our typewriter back in its case and before
ashe our hands of printer’s ink we should like to express
Le hope that the future leadership of this paper and of Dal_ housie activities in general will be marked by three things:
énthusiasm, vision, and hard work. Not one of them is in
evidence now; not one of them can be spared.

a

ae ea ne
=

 
   
   
 
    
   
  

ae
ing

a ae a
= es = ft >
: Pe —

 

ARTS AND SCIENCE (contributed)

be aes Tuesday, February 25, Dalhousie gave a pitiful specPE tenia of the new low to which the college spirit has fallen. The
_ occasion was the election of Arts and Science candidates for
‘ the Students’ Council. About fifteen students turned up. The
__ rest, including the president of the society, evidently were very
ty ~ much concerned with more important matters. After “grave”
ei ‘consideration, it was decided to waive the clause in the consticS _ tution regarding a quorum, and with that done, everyone had
# good time nominating their friends and sweethearts for elecHo . Some difficulty was experienced in selecting names from
P the Junior Class, as no one knew who was in it, but finally
enough names were collected with the help of the acting chairrh man.
|» The responsibility for this disgraceful farce must a
; K equally shared by the executive of the Arts and Science Society
and the student body. From the first of the term the Society
has shown itself peculiarly inept. Having made a weak comefrom the first pir of criticism in connection with the
Be sale of “social tickets”, a general meeting of the Society was
called. There the f neal blow seems to have been struck, when
a financial report was requested. Everyone present left under
the impression that this would be given at a meeting a week
_ or two later, but as the months dragged on, the student body
_ began to share the opinion of the vice-president that it was a
' “decadent society”.
Bs It is the unfortunate combination of weak leadership and
8 slovenly student body, however, which has given rise to such
a state of affairs. No one who maintains any contact with the i
side world can help but be struck with the spirit of indo2 of his fellow students at Dal.

 
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
    
    

 

2 BETS

    

= Pa
i

ousiE Gaze:

‘LITERARY

- wer F sete ee,
ais oye a year

ane

BITE.

   

   

ef LE re +A yi Welaayee Pp plod
Or o - ik ¥ a 7 i +

 

 

Musically Speaking You‘re a Snob

Part of the reason for musical) ty: chiefly poems set to music by |
snobbishness on this campus, as else-| recognized composers, but admirably |
where (if indeed there is any musical consciousness here at all) is

summed up neatly in an old story:

A little tailor in the Polish town

of Cattowicz, finding’ competition too
heavy, resorted to a ruse to reduce
the number of his competitors.
each of them in turn he dropped the
remark: “I hear there a great shortage of tailors in Vilna. Tailoring
business is extremely good there.”
One by one his fellow tailors left
Cattcwicz for Vilna until he had the
field completely to himself. Soon
afterward his wife found him packing his bag and asked him where
he was going. Said the little tailor,
“I am going to Vilna, I understand
there is a great need of tailors
there.”

So it is with us. We proclaim so
frequently “I don’t like ‘serious’
music,” or “I can’t stand ‘juke-box
stuff’”’ that we begin to believe it
ourselves.

Music suffers the attack from both
sides. Both attitudes are equally
blameworthy and both equally snobbish. The result is that music ceases
to be a community enterprise. What
I mean is illustrated by the attendance at the series of Lecture Recitals given on the campus this
winter by Dr. Vinci. These lectures
were well atended especially after
the great success of the first of the
five. But not by Dalhousie students.
The crowd was strictly a downtown
crowd, Both students and professors, apart from three or four nonsnobs in each group, were in absentia. And it was a university
function. Although a majority of
professors on the campus are music
lovers, we suspect them of being
rather narrow in the selection of their
music diet. Most of the students
have at least a sense of rhythm and
tune, but they thought quite naturally a musical occasion of this type
was the property of the “long-hair”
music fanciers. Both groups stayed
away; to their loss and, musically
speaking again, to the loss of the
community.

Since, undoubtedly through the
fault of the faculty, musical education—without which no education is
well-rounded—is completely missing
here, this column can do no better
than try to point out how closely
appreciation of music fits into everyday life. (When we say musical
educational is missing we are not
forgetting Music I and Music IT in
the calendar. For some time these,
when given, have been nothing less
than jokes, nothing more than
“cinch-courses.” )

Consider Dr. Vinei’s lectures. If
you can’t endure symphony music
or string quartettes and if bands—
military and dance—drive you into
distraction, there is still the song.
Because these have words we can all
understand what the composer is
trying to express. Because the
music must be simple to suit the
words, and because the werds must
be both simple (short), and meaningful, to be useful for interpretation by music the song ean be enjoyed without any technical analysis
by the listener.

,The best songs have risen, for the
most part, spontaneously, not from
tune-concocting teams hired by Hollywood, nor yet from court musicians commissioned by a patron of
the arts (currently a “sponsor”).

Someone has been’ moved simply
by joy or sorrow or*beauty to create a tune, and someone else has
learned it, sung it, and passed it
on. One of the greatest modern
composers of the symphony patterns
nearly all his work on these folk
songs. Szostakowicz above all aims
to capture melodies “close to the
people”. Sibelius, perhaps the greatest, does his best. work in the same
medium from the same i ation.

   

   
  

Even the cowboy songs al ind the
“bum-songs” of America h the
elements of true music an lay be

immortalized some day. Sout ith
erican music is rich in folk d

The Vinci performances (five,
tending from October to late Jap

ary,) covered successively: 1. i
lish BONES; 3; French songs; 3. Ite

Songs of Sebnbert: The songs se
lected were of the “‘art-song” varie-]f

 

To

istics and traditions.

and the contemporary Dunhill.
The second program,

well as the
found so often in French music.

Italian songs seslected extended
from Peri, born in 1560, to Sibella.
Where the former emphasized the
country-side, the sea, and the traditions of English society, the latter,
whether speaking of love or religion
or romanticism, were intense and ex
pressive of deep feeling.

In Schubert was the universal
“man-in-society”, not nationalist, not
tied to the forms of peculiarities of
his own particular group or generation, with words and melodies for
all classes and for all ages, relating
to fancies and emotions that all men
have always felt and always

feel,
will feel.

The last lecture-recital was devoted to Slavic songs. To Dr. Vinci’s
picture of the typically Russian
theme as the lonely maiden, sadly
dreaming of lost love, we might add
the obvious—the sweep and vastness
of the steppes, strong in the overtones of nearly all Slavie music.
Here our above point is emphasized.
Three of the songs were by Tschaikowsky. Now ‘‘Moon-love,” “Isle of
Capri,” “Can It Be Love?” and several other current effusions of sexinterest are cimematic perversions of
this author’s music.

This is a good thing in that it in-|

terprets “serious” music, through its
more obvious forms, to “juke-box”
listeners. It horrifies the classical
snobs but robs them of some of their
exclusiveness, while it forces the
jazz-hounds to recognize the merits
of classical music. Yow may even
get one of them to sit through the
5th symphony if you promise him
“Moon-love” on the way through.
And ten to one he’ll come back for
more, apart from ‘“Moon-love’”. It
is a bad thing, however, im that it
provides a startling exposition of the
bankruptcy in originality of modern
composers of the song.

True, Disney has begun to raise
the standard of cinema music and
dance music by providing a new and
less artificial (strangely enough)
subject-matter.
music is bankrupt all the same. And
why? Because, except for some
“community-singing” of the last
generation’s creations, there
participation in musical affairs by
the people. No active consumption
of music, that is to say, only passive.
(e.g, Lambeth Walk).
for the dance-hall, popular music
must have expired completely. The
song need not suffer, neither need
the instrumental type of serious
music. But music cannot exist apart
from the community. You sterilize
the musical instincts of the race by
being a snob.

 

LITERARY “D’s”

Literary “D’s” Have Been
Awarded:

Louise Bishop
John Windebank

 

 

 
 
 
    
       
   
    
 
   
  

   
  
  
 

Naugler’s
Orchestra

O

  

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032

  
  

selected for simplicity and sincerity.
They portrayed national chaaracterYou had the
flavor of English culture from Henry
Purcell in 1695 to Sullivan, Elgar

that of
French songs, varied widely in style
and lyric subject matter, They presented a kaleidoscopic view of emotions that included deep and dark
passions of the French nation as
light-hearted gaiety

But current popular '}

is nol

The dance has not.so suffered }
Indeed, but}

 

   
 

IF THE VENUS DE MILO COULD TALK—

        
 
     
  
   

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

  

 

 

| Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET

MacLeod - Balcom

 

 

29 COBURG ROAD LIMITED
° O
L * .
HALIFAX Nova Scotia DRUGGISTS
Te) Headquarters for Students
| ASK FOR Requirements
DONOVAN’S 0
BEVERAGES

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. 8.

at DAL CANTEEN
Halifax, N. S.

 

46 Granville St.

 

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating . -- It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

,

Good Luck!

Birks extend good
wishes for health and
happiness to the student body.

May we add “Thank
you” for your patronage.

Before any Meal

Or...

After any Shee

Think of ...

The
GREEN LANTERN

Henry Birks & Sens

LIMITED
Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

Dalhousie Gniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses = reco

of MA. gnized standing, leading to degrees

crab ce Mes to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships,

on e
Ste . ntrance and through

The Professional Faculties
eS o in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an tnexcelled reputation,

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A.

¢c
in the Be. ourse, average about $160 a year,

course, about $190 a year.

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
ully Supervised residential faculties for men.

 

 

March 21, 1942

 

©

,

 
 
   

 

e Feature Folio

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

»

 

The MENTOR

The chief aim of the Frosh, at this time, should be to Better Himself.
He should strive to Emulate his Seniors, and, in this way, endeavour to
beeome our final product, The Complete College Man.. We have advanced
Devious Means of hastening this Metamorphosis, and there should be little
remaining but a final study of What Makes the College Man what he is.

The first problem facing the Neophyte College Man is that he must
Purge his mind, and that all previous training must be Ruthlessly Discarded. The art of becoming a College Man must be Carefully Cultivated
and Persistently Practised, but the groundwork must be laid in a Fresh
and Unbiased Mental Outlook. This is an Essential Expedient, for reasons
stated in any good book of Psychology.

The first step, then, in becoming the Complete College Man, providing
you have already fulfilled the conditions as stated above, is to Practise

 

 

 

. Distain. This requires your Dispassionate Disinterest in everything con
~

ae
ft
"

i

* P ee
ne x i 5 el

a
x

SE om Se, sl

ee at:
~ .

Aez

Sporting Activities in which the University Teams are participating.

_ you are Deeply Involved, the matter is not beyond correction.

: Ae i
Pa pam t‘*

 
   

nected with the University, and all Student Activities. Where previously,
ag the organizer of your School ‘At-homes’, you were Socially Prominent
and am Efficient Executive, these days are, to coin a phrase, gone forever.
You must Steel yourself against these urges to enter into any Activities
connected with the Social or Political life connected with the University.
The mark of The Complete College Man is that he is above such Mundane
Matters, leaving them for the Unsophisticated. You must practice continually to reach the proper Educational Ennui required, to ultimately
find your Goal.

Again, no matter how you feel, you must remain aloof from all
In
the event of being forced to a Football game or Hockey match, it is
essential that you maintain a Stoic Silence throughout the whole thing.
Only upon the observance of these rules can you ever hope to achieve
your ideal.

The next requirement will call for a great deal of Concentration and
Effort on your part. As editor of the Eeum Secum High School Record,
youn possessed Flawless Rhetoric and a passable Literary Style. Though
You must
begim at once to practise the slovenly Diction’ of your Betters. The
number of times you can use the word ‘Don’t’ for ‘Doesn’t’ in any given
sentence will be your Criterion. You can succeed by practise alone, and
those taking English will have Ample Opportunity for rehearsing in their
Themes.

Another Essential Phase in the Formation of The Complete College

Mam is that he possesses the ability to Criticize the efforts of any who are |

Astive in any manner on the Campus. This is probably one of the most
difficult of all the Requirements, since, to do this properly, you will be
required to know a little something about what goes on. To be really
successful at this, pick only the more obvious Activities, and complain
bitterly about the way they are run, written ,put out ,etc. This should
impose no great difficulty, for the less you know about the matter, the
better Criticism you can Evolve.

The Complete College Man can always be told by the Clothes he
Wears. This, however, does not mean the Sartorial Splendor as described
in Esquire, or Eaton’s Catalogue. It is an Unwritten Law that the College
Man never wear anything that matches, and that Sweaters, Jackets and
anything of that Ilk are essential. This means that you should exercise

_ great care to pick up the Right Kind of Roommate, The Right Size, etc.

These, then, and many other Effects are all important marks of The
Complete College Man. In time other Ruses will develop, and you will
become Recognized and called by name by Roy; you will become proficient
at missing lectures, and, more important, talking about it; you will learn
to profess no knowledge as to the whereabouts of the Library; and to talk
wisely about the Alcoves at Shirreff Hall. You have to but practise, and
you should have no difficulty in reaching the Culmination of all University Training—?

 

¥

The Watchboid

(Apologies to Munro Leaf)

 

This here is a Watchboid
watching a Joe Collitch

 

 

 

 

   

Ne

Points For “D”

Coed Issue: Bob McCleave, 24; Ed.
How red your nose is!

You’ve got halitosis
Pussy CAT.

* %*£ &

ae the birds: the dove bring

ery Parkes, 6; Howard Gordon, 2;
Dick Hanna, 1; June Phinney, %;
Bob Dunsmore, 242; Louise Bishop,
4; Oscar Sandoz, 34%; Wm. Harris,

Dear Cuntie Effie:

Since this the last issue of the Gazette, dear children, we must try
to clear up all the letters I have received from you poor perplexed
things. I have a number off letters which I just haven’t had the
chance to answer, but which I will attempt to clear up in one final
‘swoop, in the hope that this will settle once and for all your difficulties, that you can begin to settle down to the Exams with no other

distractions, to disturb you.
* *

8 *

The first letter comes from one Alexandra Macdonald, one time
Business Managress of the Gazoot, who tells me that he is very interested

in a certain young Blonde, who has been, attached to another member of

the Staff, now out of town. Alexandra wants to know if he should let
his ethics interfere in this matter. My dear. it really is a problem, I’m
sure, but there is always that little matter somewhere in the wild and
wooly west, and for that reason, I should be careful. What with the Gas
Ration and all, I’d put my Ethics on the blocks anyway.

* *® & &

A certain Blanchard W. seems to be really beset. He poses a real
question, but since this is not the first time anyone has made inquiry about
the same young lady, I should like to refer him to an earlier answer given
to one John MeL.

* «x * &*

We have a letter here, just signed ‘Stinky’ and though we try to
investigate each case carefully, we are at a loss to answer her question.
She writes that on Sunday nite ‘It’ happened the first time, and wants to
know what to do now. My sweet child, as you grow up, you will become
wiser in these matters, and at least learn not to talk about them. For
now, just let Bill take the initiative and nothing will come of it, anyway.

a Re ee
And s0, my dears, I must crawl back into the woodwork, leaving
you with the hope that there has been some measure of consolation
for you in these bits of advice. While I realize that many questions
are yet to be answered, we are unable to cope with them all. Perhaps
next year there will be need of my servics again, and I’m only too

happy to oblige.
Obligingly,
Aunt Cffie
A third engineer has Mary trouble

Mane anyone know how Wis is
Well, dear friends (if any) here

ina out?
we are at the beginning of the end.

    

%:

In spite of the fact that he blushingly denies it, anyone can plainly

ee Pe

 

mm Lt
eae +

‘Coca-Cola,’

   

A to make a pause

SS ee eR Rescote,

Pause 677 ars Sat ioe

You trust its quality

  

‘ icy) hale

The taste of ice-cold
Coca-Cola” is pleas-~antly exciting ...with
no after-taste. It
brings a feeling of
complete refreshment...all you want
end you want it all.

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

606

 

    

Eat at...
EVANGELINE

Morris, %; Mary Doull, 1%; Marg- |

oe *
Waterfield seems to be still doing
O-Kay!

Y¥‘know Munro Day may be the were
wolt of exams but it didn’t seem so
vicious this year. Not nearly so
bad as the Phi Delts’ party, where
Wilson was observed hurdling gracefully over some chairs — it really
must have thrilled certain feminme
hearts, en Gord?

%

All were very much surprised to
See that elusive cnaracter “suicy”’
auld litung around the dance uoor
‘Luesday nignt.

Also noted was the presence of
Glen tiubiey and His Mary—nhe isn't
a steady—i think the word is domesticated.

Although we wouldn’t gossip it
appears as if Fowler has lost his
Mary and that his good friend Dave
Webs. has forsaken (7?) Myrt. What
makes boys?

Johnny MacLean seemed to feel
Se accused last time, but he
gives us plenty of material on which
to build. A certain New Glasgow
gal shoulda seen him Tuesday night.

 

  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
   

|
|
;
'

 
 
  
  

Do. you know that there has
been a large number of beautiful new records recently released by .

R. C. A. VICTOR

You are invited to hear your

    
 

 

see that Marty Skinner has been
Smitten.

We believe that if Ted Canavan
drives a tank like he drives his car
he ought to be a one-man blitz.

% 5

Graham Bennett ought to make a
prety good mark on Laura’s physic’s
experiment.

3 4 a

We were ashamed to note the
high-schoolish behaviour of a certain
engineer (also a sergeant) in the
Gym. store the other day, What’s
wrong with a guy when he has to
fight with a girl to get her arms

No!

Adivce to G. Lantz: you’ll never

|

around his neck? Don’t say it.

meet Dot Rose by dreaming about

her, although we sure don’t blame

you.
bs #
So now we must say farewell forever, we wish all (even Mussett)

the best of luck and here’s mud in|

your eye if this column wasn’t dirty
enough.

 

value in pipe tobacco.

In pouches, packages and ’4 Ib. tins.

  
 
 
   
  

for Spring

You will find at Wallace
Bros.a bright new line of

TEA ROOM

5642 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

 
    

The NATIONAL FIISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

Ry nes See

Four Expert Barbers

to improve your appearance
and no-long waiting at

Jack Mitchell’s
BARBER SHOP

 

41 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Players Theatre

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

BETTE DAVIS
*

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

Johnny Davis

with

 

OXFORD

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

|

 

 

   

Thomas Wallace

Sons and Daughters

Sight Specialists

 

Y. M.C. A, Building
Phone B-6881

Halifax

   
 

ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday, Wednes.
“THE FEMININE TOUCH”
“CASTLES in the DESERT”

@
Friday. and Saturday
“MR. AND MRS. NORTH”
‘CYCLONE on HORSEBACK’

The New

CASINO

You're Missing a lot if you 2 Starting Sat., March 7
‘ Were You a Joe Collitch (0.0) haven't tried Philip Morris The Little Foxes
This Week? Mixture, today’s greatest — *

“To Be Or Not
To Be”

; ae The following are the points This is Not ROBERT TAYLOR CAROL LOMBARD
Little pussy CAT awarded towards “Gazette “D’s’ ‘ ° 99 and
- You've been on a bat this year. Last year’s points are|| @ ‘Quiz’ and
pi not available, nor are those of the Bye 3 LANA TURNER JACK BENNY
ith men

       
   

   

favourite numbers in our Record Department. May we suggest that you start now to

_ ‘Beace and the stork brings tax exre ne oubette.

342; Jim Stevens, 3%; David Cold- |
well, 12; Doug Robertson, 7%; Ted |

  
   
 
  
 

 
  
     
  

  

men’s and ladies’ shoes. “SUNDOWN”

Gene Tierney Saturday, Monday, Tuesday

  
  
 

 
  
    
   
  
  
   

 
 
  
  

 
  

    
  
 
  

     
      

  
  

   
  
  

   
   

s & #£ King, 1; Phil Blakeley, 714; ‘Walt | build up a really fine record Also “SMALL TOWN DEB” “SPOOKS RUN WILD”
Miss X. Pensive Gaudet, 2; Cashman Mason, 2; Penny library for yourself. Wallace Bros. e “TOP SERGT. MULLIGAN”
1 knew a girl named Passion Patchell, 2; Lyle Brennan, 142; Bob sh FOOTWEAR . oO
I asked her out fc Graves, 4; Cole ee es Bar- Thursday Friday, Saturday
finns bara White, 1; ita » a2 Sue 4s ps Wednesday, P i
i Se ig a Mires: 1: Nancy Bettinger, Weave * 15 BARRINGTON ST. pees Scan ae ab ier ie,
ee By Awewan in Queens lace Ogilive, 5. Q AND THE

MURDER RING “ON THE SUNNYSIDE”

 

osu, 96-460 Barrington Street

«

i
 
   
 

emembrance of Things Past
By R. A. MacDONALD

With the shades fast falling on campus athletic activities
for this year it might be well to review just what has been
gained in the sporting field this past season. While those “in
the know” will realize that Dal has had a most successful year
in so far as sports are concerned it must also be recognized
that they are in the minority so, for the information of the
uninitiated, (those who just couldn’t be bothered coming out
to see the boys fight for dear old Dal.) we say here that both
the rugby and basketball seasons ended with Dal on the top
rung in the city. league schedules and even the hockey team
showed some signs of life, entering the win column for the first

   

time since 1934.
_. The rugby season opened with a
game against the highly touted St.
Mary’s squad and Dal started the
season off with a 6-3 victory. The
following week-end Dal split a holiday double feature, winning from

short end of an 8-0 score and away
went our hopes for winning the
McCurdy Cup, emblematic of the
Maritime championship. All in all,
however, the season was a most successful one with Dal winning six out

 

st
: pee

“a=

Wanderers to the tune of 8-3 and of the eight games played, defeating
then losing to the Navy fifteen 3-0. Acadia twice and coming out on top

“Their Little Feet Like Mice Did Creep . . .”

 

 

The seductive (?) creatures above portrayed indicate the Gazette’s
conception of what the well-built female does NOT look like. But it
was Munroe Day —and the watchword was “anything goes!’ ‘This
libel on the female form divine is perpetrated from left to right, by
McKenzie, Fraser, MacLeod, Forsyth and Fraser.
estes oes enone ne
By this time some little interest was ,in the City League which is somebeing aroused on the campus for, | thing in itself to boast about. The
after all, hadn’t Dal won two out of |team had plenty of spirit and drive
the three games they had played? and that is more than can be said
Then came the game with Acadia 'for most of the team’s supporters.
and Dal again emerged from the con-| With rugby fast fading from the
flict with another win tucked under | sport scene basketball and hockey
belt by a score of 8-5. It was a!took over the spotlight and again
bang-up game from start to finish |arguments began to spring up pro
with Dal driving in all the time to and con as to the merits of the reshow a surprising reversal of form spective teaams. The hockey team
over their previous game with the hadn’t won a game since 1938 and
Navy. Having surprised all andthe debate was not so much on what
sundry with their efforts the Dal|the hockey team would or could do
fifteen then hitched their wagon to | but rather the question was, “Should
a star (that star being the City|we have a hockey team at all this
League Championship) and proceed-' year?” However, after much chewed to take the Wanderers apart when ing the fat the Council permitted the
they met the following week and | boys to enter into league competition
ther 12-8 victory gave them an/and did they ever surprise everyundisputed lead in the league,|body? Well, I guess they did. All
which lead they further stretched/jn all they played six games, winthe following week when they again ‘ning two, tieing one and losing three.
took the Acadia Axemen into camp | If this is a hint of what may lie in
by the score of 12-6, and with it the | Store for future teams then we may
City League Title. Then came that : well say that Dal has made the turn
fateful Remembrance Day encounter! and hockey is once more on the up
with that great team from St. Fran-|grade. During the winter’s schedule
cis Xavier and, after a gory and|the Dal representatives managed to
bitter struggle, we came out on the |break even with Acadia in two games
played at Wolfville, winning 8-6 and
P : | losing 6-3. Then they proceeded to
rerene caret hang a trimming on the Navy intermediates and this same Navy
team is now the proud holder of the
Maritime intermediate championship. They also played a tie game
with the fast travelling St. Mary’s
team and that team proceeded to
carry off the Maritime Intercollegiate title. So, all in all, our hockey
team gave a pretty good account of
themselves this past season.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
      
   
  
  

      

pencil
problems

“rs

   

Bessie 7%
toa
* SHARPENS And now we turn to’ basketball
PERFECTLY | and what a surprise lies in store for
The flexible | those who didn’t think it worthwhile
leads end al] |to turn out to games, read the
cracking and |Pa@pers the following morning or
crumblingin the | Ven bother to inquire. For the insharpener. No formation of such people, and I’m
waste lead from | SUre there are many on this campus,
broken points in it may be said that Dal again won
daily use. another City League Championship,
; and not only did they do that, but
HOLDS ITS POINT they also won the Provincial Senior
By, actual test one Verithin title and now they are just marking
point makes over 4,000 brilliant time, waiting for finalists to be dehii wnat clared in New Brunswick and quietly
; praying that they will get a crack
PROTECTS YOUR RECORDS | <«t the Eastern Canadian title before
Notations made with its insol- eaaIns get too, too close. ,
uble lead will not smear under Seriously though folks, Dal this
moist hands nor run from acci- | Year has been represented by the
i dental wetting. Buy Verithin, best basketball team that it has had
Fa. 24 colors to choose from— in years and that is saying some: thing. When the first practice was
- 10¢ each—ess in quantities called late in the Fall it was-seen
MADE IN GANADA BY that the team would have to be built
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY

around the veterans Wilson, MacEAGLES Cece

leod, Smith and MacKenzie. and

bolstered by Forsythe, MacDonald,
Hicks, Webber and Dunbrack.
COLORED PENCILS

SR BOLL, CCIE

ie
Annan

 
 
  
  

Bo. eek

SE es
Senne

   

In their two pre-Xmas tilts, one
with the Navy and the other with
the Y intermediates, the Dal basketeeres showed that they were. going to be the team to best in the
Post-Xmas schedule. In winning
these two exhibition games the Dal
_ hoopsters showed balanced scoring

ta q 7
eu Si a ¥ P oe } ‘®
ab Ta ey: : - ih! J,
Se an We Oe ~~

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT Spice

By AL MacLEOD

 

 

The Last Cob of Corn:

This week we have nothing of very great importance to
report. For the most part there is a tinge of regret that twenty
issues of the Gazette have rolled off the presses, and that our
humble college journal has done its last bit of good, and its last
bit of harm for the year. It has been a pleasant association,
and one not soon to be forgotten. We feel, at this moment a
sense of fellowship for the ancient Persian philosopher who
brooded over his beer and wrote: “El Mektub Mektub’’—What
is written is written.” The moving finger has written, and
moves on, and neither piety nor wit can cancel half a line of it,
or retrieve Page Four from the dusty oblivion into which it has
sunk. Sport Spice and the rhyming headline have served their
space-filling purpose—and now they deserve a not-too-honorable
rest in the wastebaskets to which they have been consigned,
and in the ashes of the fires in which they have been consumed.

The limping doggerel which from time has headed this

column was apologetic enough, and scarcely requires further

defence or excuse. However, it sprang from what was perhaps a misplaced conviction that a note of novelty might be
added to a sports column. Those who have ignored it have
missed nothing; those who have tolerated it have been generous; those who have read it have by this time undoubtedly been
confined to some institution. At all events, the writer, at least,
had fun.

In conclusion, we should be failing in our duty if we failed
to express our appreciation of Dal’s athletes who sacrificed time
and energy in pursuit of an oft-times elusive sporting glory.
They have made the past year one of the most outstanding in
Dalhousie history, and by their efforts the name “Dalhousie”
has occupied more than a fair share of the headlines of the
local press. To the Dal students, who found it convenient to
rally round the gold and black banners of the Tigers and Cubs
of rugby, hockey and basketball, we can only hope they found
it worthwhile, and commend them for their interest.

Finally, although perhaps nothing had been gained, at
least nothing has been lost—and that perhaps is reason enough
for having a Page Four in the Gazette...

In brief, through the year we have tried to explain

In rhyme, all the things that were happening:

Our verses were bad,

But you must have been glad

They weren’t costly, immoral or fattening.

—_———

power fine team play, both of which total while MacLeod was a potent
were to be a great help in the games | threat whenever he was on the floor,
to come. which was most of the time.
About the middle of January the Two exhibition tilts were played
League schedule’ opened and Dal| recently and Dal broke even in these
handily won the first game from the | losing to the “Y” 31-21 and winning
R. C. A, F. by a 33-19 score, and |from the Debert All-Stars 60-37. So,
though the basketball was not the|Dal has played twelve basketball

 

best still Dal showed that they were
the team to beat. So began the
victory march which terminated in an
undefeated season in schedule play
and culminating in the City League
Title, this being the first such title
for Dal since 1934. In this victory
march Dal twice defeated last year’s
Maritime Championship Navy quintette by the one-sided scores of 45-34
and 39-26, defeated Acadia twice 5119 and 32-12 and in their second
game with the Air Force turned
them aside 26-14. Dal and Navy
then played off for the City League
Title and the Dal quintette steamrollered to victory with two straight
wins over the T'ars by the convincing scores of 46-32 and 42-35. While

games this winter, winning eleven
and losing one—not a bad record for
a team that wasn’t conceded a
chance for the City League Title by
outside sports writers, is it. With
the winning “of the City Title Dal
automatically won the _ provincial
title and now are just marking time,
as I said before, waiting to climax
a brilliant season by winning the
Maritime Senior Title if a New
Brunswick finalist can be declared in
time — perhaps they will even go
further than that—who knows?
7k % *

So, the sport curtain for the 19411942 season slowly falls on the Dal
campus and I think it has been more

NS, LL LL

than successful in every way—next
year’s teams are going to have a
high standard to live up to both in
ability and in general sportsmanship
and we close, wishing them every
success in their endeavours. ‘The
torch is now being handed on to them
and may they carry it high and
aside many a scoring thrust of op-| prove themselves worthy Dalhousie
posing teams and added more than | representatives just as this year’s
their share of points to the team ‘teams have proved themselves to be.

the whole team played bang-up ball
from start to finish special mention
must be given to that great pair of
guards “Mike” Smith and Ben Wilson and the lanky centre of the first
string, Captain Al “Moose” MacLeod. Smith and Wilson turned

 

SMART CLOTHES

with that Professional touch so admired
by College Men —

THE STORE PREFERRED BY STUDENTS

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

A Discount of 10% to Students

 

STUDENTS!

MAKE GORDON B. ISNOR’S
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR

SUITS — OVERCOATS —
FURNISHINGS

SHOES

—and save 0M every purchase by taking
advantage Of our Special Students’
Diseount at ..,

GORDON B. ISNOR’S

69 Gottingen Street — Halifax, N.S

e
Stage tte: et nt ree ee ee ee ae |

481 BARRINGTON ST.

 

DALHOUSIANS:

  
  
   
  
    
 
  
   
  
 

March 21, 1942

    

 

M €rCury sped far above fatigues

With Picobac to charm his endless leagues.

@ Students also must cover much ground —
academic if not terrestrial. In their arduous
journeys through the realms of learning, they
find that Picobac gives them “wingéd feet of
thought”. For the pick of Canada’s Burley
crop is always a mild, cool, sweet smoke —a
vade mecum incomparably satisfying and financially undemanding.

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH « 15¢
14-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN ~ 65c¢

also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

7

mbar we e

Cut Flowers, Etc.

from

 

Best Wishes to the
Graduates of ’42

*

KAY’S LIMITED

HALIFAX

 

 
   

for your

TOILET ARTICLES
MEDICINES
PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES
KODAKS
CIGARS

YOU SHOULD PATRONIZE

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES

comme OE wax

490 BARRINGTON STREET
LORD NELSON HOTEL

   

 
