    
  
  
 
  
  

 

  
   

ie

  

  

Ps
i

 

5 "

  

   
   
   
  
   
  

ee
Aer

*

ajaeer®

i ge

in ah

 
 
   
   
 
   

    
  
  

og eview of what happens on cam
_ humourous (2?) remarks are from
F , ox

_—
, ao 4
Fy a

- Brown was invested as new Chan
_ A medley of extemporanea,
_ And love is a thing that can never

a And I am Marie of ibamabia,

; deficit in student spending this year

-pionship gained by a victory over
* St. Dunstans.

* eredits.

 

‘We hope to give you a weekly} VOL. LXXIV

_ puses across Canada. Interspersed

Chief news of the week comes
from Varsity and Queens. At Vic1 College, Toronto, Dr. .W T.
regardless of the Hayes office.
cellor while Queens distributed a
- number of honorary degress to various. dignitaries, celebrating the

Think this over carefully ?
centenary of that institution.

 

_ Dorothy Parker is quoted:

cast your ballott.
Life is a cycle of glorious song,

The rules are as follows:

go wrong,

 

From U.B.C.:
“T haven’t heard a squeak out of
you since we started dancing.”
“Oh, I’m pretty well oiled.”
ooo,
The Brunswickan notes another

wearer eligible.

the sheep a thrill!

FROSH BERATED

)
) BY A. & S. EXECUTIVE |
and the N.B.—P.E.I. Rugby cham- |

class held yesterday afternoon in

Also from the Brunswickan: Two
coeds were making up after a
quarrel. “Well, let’s call it even” |,
said one. She raised her coke bottle. “So here’s looking at you, and
Heaven knows that’s an effort”.

_ At Saskatchewan, they are counting military training as an Arts
eredit, done here in the first year
of war and then abandoned. War
Science classes are also held and
military mathematics, advanced,
(given in the-air training course)
and Theory of flight also given in
air training, are accepted as Arts |

of the Arts and Science Society |
presented a summary of the Society
‘and its functions. Inez Smith,
president of the Society denounced
the “rumors” that have been circulated and which have been calculated to undermine the Society. Miss
Smith was followed by Alec MacIntosh who spoke on the same
general topic but his remarks seemed more to the point. The meeting
seemed destined to deteriorate into
a name calling contest as the
Gazette was brought under fire because of its Editorial of October 17,
which boosted the Legendary “Studley Society”.

A vote ‘as to whether the class
should join the Arts and Science

The Sheaf also presents a bouquet
to auto drivers cooperating with the
voluntary rationing of gasoline. At
the Reunion Day football game last

year there were 300 cars. This society was proposed by Miss Smith
year there were 299. CARRY ON| but for some unaccountable reason
CANADA! the votes were not collected and no |
decision was made. -In an attempt
GOOSERY RHYME - to keep the matter within the
Jack and Jill went to the dance, family, the next spaker was Colin
A-drinking rum and porter eat who denounced everyone in
They got so drunk they did some general for not properly introducthings : ing the Freshmen to the various |
They really hadn’t orter. campus societies, and the Effective
—Sheaf. Speaking Club particularly.

—

One Moment Please

A Post-Grad meeting to elect a representative to the Council
will be held in Room 3 of the Arts Building on Tuesday, October 28.
The President of the Students’ Council will be presiding.

The Medical Society wishes to issue a challenge to any other
society for an Inter-Faculty Football match to be played at Studley
Law or Engineering Societies please note. The Doctors are the 1941
Interfaculty champs and are anxious to prove their claim to the 1942
title: A general apathy among the other societies has prevented a
regular schedule being formed, but any societies wishing to play
need only to make known their desire to Red Payne.

A tea dance is being planned for November 1 after the Acadia match.

 

 

At a meeting of the Freshman| the night
| Game.

the Chem Theatre, representatives |

biggest military
| by a Canadian University took place |

 

:
| freshmen
| torches ~
effigy

‘the occasion

| students.

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 24, 1941

 

No. 4

 

ATTENTION!
CHOOSE YOUR SWEATER QUEEN!

Who is Dalhousie’s Lana Turner?

The Gazette means to find out

Hundreds of loosely sweatered, tightly sweatered and moderately
sweatered coeds stroll on the campus each day.

Who is your favorite?

It is a decision of utmost importance.

You select your nominee for the title and we’ll gather in the votes

next week. Wait for next week’s Gazette for further instructions to

No lobbying during class hours.
Any coed who has worn a sweater on the campus this year
is elegible for this high honor.
Girls can vote as well as boys.
“Sloppy joes”, form fitters and just plain sweaters make the

Cast a vote! Roll out your best wool masterpieces girls aud give |
See next week’s GAZETTE!

Who is Dal’s Lana?

The meeting was concluded with
an announcement by Pres. Russell

that a pep rally would be held on|

preceding the Acadia

A meeting of the Arts and
Seience Society is to be held on
Tuesday noon in the Chemistry
Theatre. Nominations for Student Council bye-elections will
A new D.A.A.C. repre
be held.
sentative must be elected as well
as aSecretary-Treasurer for the

Society. A large turnout is requested. Take some interest in
your student government.

 

}
Volunteer Movement,

| Mr. Bilheimer will also speak at St. |

 

BUDGETS SLASHED

Leads S$. M. C. Camp

=e

rs ‘

ROBERT S. BILHEIMER

Association Secretary of the Student |
who will lead
the annual S.C.M. fall camp being

held at Seabright this weekend. |

Andrew’s Church Sunday evening, |
Rev. Hugh MacMillan, National |
Secretary of the S.C.M., will be another leader at the He SED:

OTTAWA -DECREES MILITARY
TRAINING FOR MEDS

 

McGill Bebe
Hitler in Effigy

Gigantic Parade

Foes
Montreal, Oct. 22. (C.U.P.)
display ever

—The|
held |

ON DAL STAND

!

| War services,
| that

i

tonight as the McGill Reserve Train. |

ing Battalion and members of the
armed forces stationed in Montreal
paraded to Molson Stadium for a
miitary tattoo and college pep rally.
They were followed by
and freshettes
bearing aloft
of Hitler constructed for
by the architecture
After a singsong led by

carrying
a ten

[the McGill Glee Club, an exhibition

| football
| William Strang, well known

address by

C. B, C.

match and an

McGill |

* NO STATEMENT

Maj-Gen. L. R. LaFleche, as associate deputy minister of national
announced last week |
medical students at Canadian
| universities will be granted no ex- |
-emptions from compulsory military |

training.
General LaFleche said that the
Department of National Defence

has worked out a method whereby
'medical students in their final years |
may give particular attention

 

| Gamma

| the
| report
'seem to be very

| tioning showed that enthusiasm was

_sold before each of the events.

to |

courses or subjects which defence)

department has designated as “mili
tary medicine”.

foot |

|

|director the proceedings were cli-|

ard Wiswell and Chris Arklie.

The D.A.A.C. executive is to held a*meeting on Sunday morning at
10 o’clock. Revision of the budget will be main topic under consideration.

To the soft strains of Jerry Naugler’s orchestra and with the jolting
jouncing of jitterbugs, the Students’ Council dance last night passed by
without a hitch. An enjoyable time was had by all, and more especially
so since it was all free for nothing. At last we start to get something
for that ten bucks—maybe.

To date no one has made application for the post of Bulletin Board
Editor. The position is still open for anyone who wishes to apply to M.
M. RANKIN, Secretary-Treasurer, Dalhousie Council of Students, 98%

hm Street. The position carries with it a salary of $25.

| At a meeting of the Law Society on Tuesday, plans were made
cat hold the Law Ball on November 14, at the Nova Scotian Hotel. All

 

 

: _ profits from the dance will be donated to the Queen’s Canadian Fund.

 

 

 
 

roa a ‘ad eee ments are in the hands of Walt Gaudet, who is assisted

 

 
  
  

 

“ea Book. A prize of $5.00 dollars is to be awarded the winning

 

 

 

All entries must be handed in to the Gazette Office by Nov. 15.

 

  
 

'maxed by gleeful burning of Hitler’s
“effigy.
he
was fittingly invited to attend.
Accordingly the president of the
Students’ Society last night dispatched a telegram to Hitler exeasion and promised him a warm re- |
eeption if he should arrive in time..
The telegram said in part, “To en-|
sure a speedy flight we recommend
that you book with Italian agents.
We apologize for the short notice |
but dress as-bestos you can”,
The,feuhrer replied with regrets, |
stating that he was having a hot
time in Russia and altho appreciat- |

ing the honor could not attend an- |

Since thé Fuehrer was sig-|
The committee in charge of arrangements consists of Ken Jones, Blanch- | nally honored on this oceasion,

| was approached but refused to make

to Halifax this Gastona and Maior

other house warming. He also ae |
marked that if we would be so kind!

as to call off a certain bull-dog that |

was worrying him he would take
great pains to visit us in the very
near future.

 

“Certain medical students, instead
of taking the ordinary military
training, will put in the same number of hours giving particular attention to what we call militarv
medicine,” Gen. LaFleche said. He
emphasized that this did not constitute any exemption from
pulsory training.

In an attempt to gain information
on this new development insofar as
it concerns Dalhousie, Major Hogan

com- |

situation at
obtain more

the
to

any com ment on

present, desiring

 

ne go aa | definite information before commitplaining the significance of the oc-| £

ting himself. Colonel Smith, who
is at present in Ottawa could not
be reached for a statement. The
| Colonel, however, will be returnine

Hogan announced that he expects
him to be present at the Battalion
parade on punday.

 

Congratulatiens, George!

Orchids to Professor George
Curtis! On Sunday morning last,
a new addition was added to the
Curtis family in the form of a
brand new baby son. Yes, both
Mrs. Curtis and the baby are doing well,

 

 

iy

 

 

RETRENCHMENT POLICY
ADOPTED BY COUNCIL

ENDORSES WAR EFFORT BROADCAST

It was revealed at a meeting of the Student Council, held
last Monday evening, that a sharp decrease in enrolment of
students would lead to a severe curtailment of expenditures
this year. A check on registration indicated that the Student
Body would be reduced by approximately 150 students: aresultant loss in income of $1500. It was decided by the Council,
after prolonged debate on the question, that an effort should
be made to continue as much as possible the regular extracurricular activities of the University.

~—© In accordance with this, a policy

DELTA GAMMA | of retrenchment will be attempted.
| Current expenses are to be cut to
PLANS WAR WORK la minimum in order that they may
The first formal meeting of Delta| be met by current revenue. The
was well represented on/| Council considers it the wisest
Wednesday evening, by both Fresh-| course to leave the reserve funds
ettes and upper class women. untouched for future years in the
The meeting got off to a good| event that the war should continue
start by several elections. Those| to make serious inroads into the
elected were: registration.

 

Debating Manager— Drastic changes in the budgets of
Anita Rosenblum | all the student societies was con
Freshette Representative— |sidered necessary and it was decidNorrie Douglas| ed that all should be cut by at

Senior Representative— lease 25%. No investments in war
Marjorie Saunders | bonds or donations to various funds

Junior Representative— as were made last year are to be
Anne Mackley | attempted. Final decision on the
Sophomore Representative budgets was postponed until next
Chris Arkley Tuesday evening. Meanwhile tem
For the benefit of the Freshettes,| porary allotments were made to
|each officer of Delta Gamma and | Sodales and to the D.A.A.C. in ormanagers. of D.G.A.C. gave a/ der to enable these societies to earry
of the year’s plans, which| 0M until their final budgets shall be

satisfactory, clarified.

discussion and A letter from the Alma Mater
Society of U.B.C., which outlined
plans being made for a nation-wide
radio broadcast by Canadian uni| versities in an effort to let people

 

and
then general quesfelt.

Next there was discussed the
question of Open House at Shirreff

Hall, and it was decided only cer-! know just what lines of endeavor
tain Saturdays would be used, be- universities are aiding the war ef
I. fort was presented to the representatives. The society requested that
Dalhousie lend its support Im an
all out effort to put the scheme
ithe decision is that more, in the | 2¢TOSS. The meeting wholeheartedway of knitting, will be undertaken|!y endorsed the program and authis vear. | thorized that U.B.C. be notified of
| Dalhousie’s intention to cooperate in
the proposition.

| ginning Nov. Tickets are to be

War work was discussed for the |

| greater part of the meeting, and

A dance in aid of the Community

Chest is to be planned, by a com- ; ‘ ae

Va teh dh) Phiten homutatink ofa iear | Discussion as to’ the feasibility of
} se; SiS - ar- i 5

bara Sieniewicz, Nancy Berringer | 2" outdoor rink for the campus was

i Ac ~ : uy LN 7 I< - 1 . a . .

i Doahie: Stairs.) PHA dance’ Sail be pontponed until some definite deci
'sions as to the budgets should be

arrived at.

held later in the season.

? DIPO

@
(Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion)

)

Price and Wage Control.

To the question, “Do you approve of the Government’s proposed sys
 

tem of price and wage control?” 65% answered “Yes” and 33% “No”.
2% said they didn’t know anything about it and didn’t give a d what
the Government did.
* % * *
Should Britain Invade the Continent Now?
Of those quizzed, 87% said that they did not think that this was the

opportune time for Britain to make an invasion of the German-held channel coast,
* %

Do You Think That Intercollegiate Sports Should
Be Banned For the Duration?

Of 38 students quizzed, 37 were against the existing ban on intercollegiate sports. The other one looked around warily and said ir a low
whisper, “Yes, but please don’t quote me.” Apparently he was a secret
agent from Acadia.

ok

Kk

oe %

*
Are You In Favor of a Campus Rink at Dal?

7442% answered this in the affirmative. 10% declared that they could
think of more pleasant ways in which to spend their money, but wouldn’t
elaborate on this, while 5% could not think and se had no opinion to offer. |
The remaining %% can be accounted for by two individuals who thought
the idea ‘“‘novel,, to say the least,” and suggested that when there wasn’t
any ice we could turn the rink into a swimming pool.

aly
2K

of
%
 
  
 

 
      
   
 

Founded 1869— “The

The views e in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of

 

author; it cannot be assumed that they represent the opinion of
the Student Body. ecg

the Student
__ Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St., Halifax

Bee Spe te GAZETTE STAFF
_—sdKeditor: JOHN W.

   
    
   

yn GRANT - - - =. 5 - B-8576
'-—s News Editor: A. S. FORSYTH - - - Pt cs S-2936
_ §$ports Editor: AL MACLEOD “ - 2 hai B-8576
Features Editor: JOHN TASMAN - - - : S-2597

) = © Witerary Editor: LOUISE BISHOP - - - - - B-9746
_ .€.U.P, and Exchange: DON BLACK ~- : - = B-5048

'~ ~~ Proof Editor: DAVID COLDWELL- - - - - Lette

Business Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD

   

AN IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT

_ Some sixteen students believe they have a real grouch
__ against someone. They are members of the Zoology 2 class
__who are being asked by the professor of their class to attend
labs on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons, and by the military
authorities to take training on one or other of those afternoons,
no matter how they choose their company. When approached
about the matter, the professor refused aboslutely to change
wit the hour of the lab. The military authorities were just as
adamant in refusing to consider any change in the hours of
training.

So the situation stands at present. Sixteen students are
being torn between military training (compulsory) and a Zoology lab (compulsory). The choice apparently is that of a
court martial or a pluck. The solution is altogether beyond the
power of the students, who are apparently the victims of a
cy Squeeze-play. The matter can be solved only by some cooperaet tion between the military and university authorities. It may
ie be possible to have the time of the lab period changed, although
one that would probably be difficult. It should not be forgotten,
fr however, that the military training program is something
F added to the university course and that it should fit itself in as

4 ‘Much as possible. If a number of pre-medical students are
Pe being deprived of an important, indeed a necessary part of a
compulsory class, then it is up to the military authorities to

devise a time- table which will not do so.

One reason for the lack of evening training periods this
year is said to be that they would inconvenience the training
staff. No doubt evening periods are inconvenient, as much for
students are for their officers. The main function of a university, however, is education, and the inconvenience even of a
large number of people should not stand in the way of that.
The government, in introducing the present training program
in the universities, intended to interfere with classes as little
as possible. It is inevitable that some students should have to
modify their schedules slightly in order to conform to the
hours of military training, but a situation in which the military
time-table prevents a whole pre-medical class from attending
a compulsory class is intolerable.

eee Moses Sho ALS hs

FS VOTE IF YOU CAN

This coming Tuesday the voters of Nova Scotia go to the
polls to elect a government. Owing to a ruling of the present
administration, students are allowed to vote only at their
homes, and not where they attend college. For this reason a
large proportion of university students are being deprived of
a chance to cast a vote. Acadia students protested against this
action, but there has been no murmur at Dalhousie.

For such as are allowed to vote, the casting of a ballot
ought to be a serious matter. Students have a definite interest |
in seeing that progressive candidates are given a chance to ex-|
press their ideas on the floor of the house. No one with any
sort of an education can fail to see that the present world situ» _ ation is directly due to lack of foresight in government. © Official uneoncern over the condition of the working-class aided
more than any other single factor in bringing Hitler and his im“s Itators to power. Students, in casting their ballots, would be
| _— Well-advised to consider lest they aid in electing the same kind

' Of government in Nova Scotia.

- It is interesting to find a widespread turning away from
ie the leadership of the two major parties in British Columbia.
| The C.C.F., a working-class party, has succeeded in doubling
| __its strength in the Legislature of that province. Nova Scotians
would do well to consider the significance of this trend.

 

}

 

 

ae | HOLD THAT TIGER

bes Tt has always been considered a mark of
nei dare to suggest at Dalhousie that cheering at football games
i is permissible, let alome that it cought to be encouraged. Neighboring universities have spoken endlessly about the lack of.
; college spirit at Dalhousie and we have accepted just about all |

ill-breeding to

they have said—at least until they begin to insult Dalhousie | /

}

cen to suggest that it is no better than Mount Allison, Acadia,
e 2 '

. Despite this universal reputation the fact remains that
Dalhousians are proud oftheir college, their societies, and their
I football teams. They even like to see their teams win and they
_ will cheer for them as well as any other student body—if they

get the chance. Students, however loyal they may be, cannot
be expected to cheer heartily without some planning on the
part of their student government. Energetic (and pretty)
cheer-leaders who know their jobs can make even a listless
crowd rise to their feet. Dalhousians, even now sensing the
| - possibility of another league championship, are just about
3 _ ready to yell their heads off. What more opportune time for
the Council to look up a few pretty cheer-leaders ?
m Dalhousians have always prided themselves on the individHf ualism which has been fostered on the campus. Although small,
|. Dalhousie has always been a university, seeking to cultivate
| __ those qualities of mind and spirit with which its students have

 

oe

Se
ae ek 2 oo

le

    
   
  
  

been born rather than to turn

     
   
     
   
  
   
   
 
 
 

» a great deal about his universi
Pp ~—sr reading of books, some of it

+ believed to be the best in the M

out a mass production line of

| “Joe Colleges”. The typical Dalhousie product has not boasted

ty, but he has taken away with

| him a certain amount of wisdom, some of it derived from the

found elsewhere. It is a good

p thing that that has been so, and few have regretted the atmoee sphere of individuality at Dalhousie. But once in a while Dal| housians decide to cheer for the college which they have always

  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

« LITERARY .

“THE WHITE CLIFFS”

by Alice Duer Miller

Among the new books of poetry
one has won both popularity and
acclaim. That book is Alice Duer
Miller’s “The White Cliffs”. Miss
Miller is not entirely new to the
reading public, but her fanie has
been increased considerably by this,
her latest book of poems. The book
is a selection of short poems making up a cyele and telling the story
of the author’s life. She, an American girl, went to England’ for a
brief visit. At her first dance she
was enchanted by the English faces,
the English manners, and her first
sight of the Order off the Garter.
Of course she fell in love with a
young Englishman. In her descriptions of the people she neither
over-emphasizes their faults and
foibles nor over-accentuates their
attributes. She paints a _ truly
charming picture of the home of
her beloved, an old manor in Devonshire that boasts of a Drake’s walk.
She gives a fine character sketch
of the lady of the manor, who be
»came her mother-in-law, and des
cribes the family ghost with a delightful brevity.

The outbreak of the first World
War lends poignance and a certain
excitement to her love story. When
she marries, the poignancy is increased by the circumstances. At
this point in the book she has written two lovely lyrics, ‘‘Why do we
f4ll in love?”, and a second reminscent of Wordsworth’s sonnet written on Westminster Bridge. The
letter she receives from her father!

ee

is the most humorous of the poems
in the cycle. In it she rehearses
the various American grievances
against England with a fine whimsicality, and a noteworthy absence of
bitterness.

She becomes the mother of an
English son whom calamities of the
war leave heir to the estate in
Devon. The crisis in the book arrives when she is faced with the
necessity of sending her son into a
second World War, possibly to die
as his father had done.

One reader who remained remarkably unmoved by “The White Cliffs”
offered his criticism in a terse sentence, “It is very good propaganda.”
This remark undoubtedly contains
more than an atom of truth, but the
book is propaganda of the least
objectionable type. The style is
neither novel, nor it is always perfectly suited to the subject matter.
Occasionally the versification becomes obtrusive. This is not a book of
great poetry. Several of the lyrics
have a quality that seems best described as charm, though the term
is hardly adequate to express the
feeling that they arouse. On the
whole, “The White Cliffs” is a timely and attractive book of verse, and
its popularity at this time is probably greater than its artistic value
could demand in any work of like
worth based on a different topic.
It is still worth the three-quarters

of an hour that are required to!

read it.
L. E. B.

 

A SUGGESTION TO DANCE COMMITTEES
(Letter to the Editor)

Now that the Med and Law Balls
are once more frolling around, the
conversation in common rooms

seems to be the same as in years|.

gone by, i.e. That such dances are
plenty expensive without buying
flowers for milady. As usual, some
groups get together and everyone
decides—no flowers, and as usual,
some of the campus big shots will
turn up with their gals sporting two
bucks worth of roses. And just as
usual, those that don’t come across
are henceforth and forevermore, |
skinflints.

Of course we all
corsage is very nice.
and all that sort of thing.

know that a
Thoughtful,
But |

 

 

=> LTP SS

EVENING
GOWNS

 

 

® Crepes
®@ Sheers

© Silk Jerseys

Colors of scarlet, white, turquoise, black, flame, powder )

blue, hyacinth blue.

Sizes: 12 to 18 in the group.

15.98

 

The Robert Simpson Eastern Ltd.

 

 

THE

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

* a FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
! : ; aritimes, and when ey ao ey HALIFAX — OV
_ deserve pretty cheer-leaders. LI - NOVA SCOTIA
Lave it — > ee

a = a ;

after all, they are of no earthly
good. They don’t last, and even if
they did, they’re still too expensive

So I suggest that small souvenirs,
pins, badges, tags, or what else have
you, be sold by the committee, and
further that while their purchase
should not be compulsory, flowers
without such souvenir be forbidden,
and further, that all profits (which
could be considerable) be turned
over to the Red Cross or some other
worthy organization. It would benefit all.

Other universities have used this
plan to good advantage. Why can’t |
we? !

*

A TWOFOLD
SERVICE

through the new

“VICTORY
POLICY”

Canada needs your investments
in War Savings Certificates and
other war loans, But adequate
insurance protection is necesSary as well. In this new “Victory Policy,” The Mutual Life
of Canada offers a plan which
allows you to aid your’ country
and, at the same time, obtain
needed financial protection.

Premiums are exceedingly
low for a fixed period of years
to help you invest in War Sayings Certificates. And even at |
thé end of this period, whenthe |
rate is adjusted, the preminm is |
still lower than you would normally pay. You will be able to
use the proceeds of your War
Savings Certificates as they mature to pay the premiums.

Permanent Protection

The “Victory Policy” is a permanent plan of life insurance.
It has been specially prepared
to meet your immediate needs
and to provide future protection
as well. It is particularly attractive to students.

Ask your nearest Mutual Life representative for complete details of
this plan. Or write to The Mutual
Life of Canada, Waterloo, Ont.

THE

MUTUAL [IFE

ESTABLISHED 1869

“Owned by the Policyholders”

 

 

 
  

  
 


 

 

| 29 COBURG ROAD y
| <I Naugler’s
| HALIFAX Nova Scotia
ae Orchestra
ASK FOR | O
| DONOVAN’S |
BEVERAGES

 
 

The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

  

October 24, 1941

 

 
   

7 CAPORAL

CIGARETTES

 

Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET

at DAL CANTEEN
46 Granville St. Halifax, N. 8.

   

 

A Word of

Welcome

Birks extends to new- me
comers and returning WELCOME
students a cordial wel- .
come to bring their
gift problems to Birks. TO
Come and visit — even DALHOUSIE
if you have no problem.
Henry Birks & Sons C

LIMITED
Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society
Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

Dalhousie CGniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., Bb. Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized st

of M.A., M.Se.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance

the courses.

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 

38 SHORE ROAD

 

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

anding, leading to degrees

  
  
   
   
   
 
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
    
   
  
   

 

Jerry

Call H-6032

 

 

 

 

Mathematics,

and through

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

   
  
 
   

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a year,

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 
 

October 24, 1941

The FEATURE

Say Me ee
i}.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

FOLIO

 

THE MENTOR

SELECTION AND CARE OF ROOMMATES

One Major Problem confronting all College Students is that of
Living with Mate. Have courage, this is not a dissertation on Marital
Relations, but rather a survey of the correct procedure in the Care and
Selection of Roommates. This is of Extreme Significance, and thus considerable care must be exercised in the Ultimate Selection. Many
students, who chose unwisely, have lived the Wrong Kind of Life for
years, without realizing it. This is not only Detrimental, but Demoralizing. Here, then, are a few simple rules for your guidance in making
the proper selection. (Note: Caution must be exercised, as the selection
of a roommate of the opposite sex is Frowned Upon by modern society.)

The first consideration, in choosing your mate, should be that of Size.
This cannot be too highly emphasized. Do not be Impulsive, but choose
Deliberately. Ascertain, at the very beginning, his size in Shirts, Sox,
Suits, ete., before making any definite moves. Consider carefully his
taste in Ties. YOU will be judged by the clothes he wears, so it will be
to your Ultimate Advantage to make this your first Criterion.

RUFUS RAYNE
FROM RANGOON

Episode 2
Swansong on the Swanee or
How Much Hokum?

 

Wilbur P. Fizzleque was dancing
about in unholy disgust, writhing
because George Moose-ears had supposed that he was really Galling
Schmidt because as he said he
wasn’t. There could be no doubt
as to the truth of his words be
caues at the very moment Galling |

and Ignatz could be seen doing the
“Aren’t we grand” fandango over

rare
a eae
: Pil or }
os ane

    
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  

=

4

ing to high heaven. “I am Schmidten”.
6668
We were transported once more
to the sea of blood, where Major
Hokum was floating placidly by on
a lotus leaf, wafting gentle orders
to his men who could be discerned
sinking slowly—ever so slowly. A
piercing scream pierced the Ether.
Bob Swansdown was meanwhile
meekly> meandering from the menacing Major, who screamed constantly in his ears, “I will pay, you
will pay, he will pay”. The timid
Swansdown then lifted up*his voice
in a swansong, pathetically muttering, “I don’t want to be a Paymaster. I want to go back to the
mire, where I belong.”
vas
And so far on through the night.
All is deathly stillness. Nothing
can be heard but the song of a bird

 

 

 

 

 

 

anackan s Picobac spread ak acharm above him, | :
That even stone must come alipe to love him. _

   
   

@ She is wise who plays her “Galatea” to a man
who smokes Picobac. He is sure to be contented.

   
      

For the pick of Canada’s Burley crop is always
a mild, cool, sweet smoke. And economical!
In fact, to amend R. L. Stevenson, “No woman
should marry a man who does not smoke

Picobac.”
also packed in Pocket Tins

the backs of hapless freshmen,
mostly Eternal, while the various
arts and seances played about their
heads like little green seraphims.
Every once in a while the head of
Fed-up Bustle could be seen protuding from the sticky mass, shriek
and the steady “thump, thump,
thump” of presumptuous Dalhousians being kicked out of a dance by
saintly Acadians, glorying in their
sportsmanship and their hospitality.

Well, Rufus Rayne is back, isn’t
he? Is it too good to last?

Next in importance to Size, is Shape. This should be given flattering
attention. The importance of this cannot be too Highly Emphasized.
Exercise the Utmost Discrimination. Remember, you may have to sleep
with him. Endeavour to select a mate who will conform to yourself, your
bed, etc. This is Invaluable Training for later life.

You will be advised to conduct a Thorough Investigation of his
Habits. It is essential that he smokes the Right Brand of Cigarettes,
uses the Proper Type of Razor Blade and Shaving Soap, and reads all
the best Magazines. His personal Habits should be Examined Minutely,

      
 
    
       
     
     
    
 
 

.

    
     

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH «- 15¢
14-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN - 65c¢

           

Can ‘Dooley’ have broken the ‘Old
School Tie’ so soon or was he just

  

though it is often easier to Mould Him outright, than to find some one
possessing all the necessary qualifications. If he has the awkward disposition to study far into the night, he can be quelled by Dousing the
Lights. If he snores, Douse him.

When possible, select a mate that is taking, or has taken, the same

TheMarch of Grime

While we hate to mention one person more than seeral times in these
columns, we wish to extend our sympathy to Miss W. whose misfortune

lonely. We seem to recall a number
of trips to New Glasgow last. year.
The Acadia game seems to have
brought a lot of the boys to life.

ot

* *

Picobac

“lt DOES taste good in a pipe!”

   
   
   
   
   
  
   
      
   
   
        
    
       
   
   
     
  
 
      
        
    
  
 
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
      
         
     
  
   

 

classes that you are. If the former, make sure he does the required
work in these. This will be of the Greatest Benefit to you. Be sure to
arrange your classes on different periods, so that his exercises can be
safely passed in as your own. This has Endless Possibilities, If he has
already taken the class, his old exercises will come in handy in the same
manner.

Of no mean importance in your ultimate choice is consideration of
his Financial Status. It will be to your advantage to pick an Affluent
Mate, for often, when the pinch is felt, he will be more than ornamental.
The value of this will be brought home in Laundry Savings, effected by
letting him pay for it. Many, who chose wisely in this way, actually |
made money on laundries.

during the recent Shirreff Hall initiation caused us much worry: We
wish her a speedy recovery, that we

can really get something on her.
x * *

Can the sudden fancy for fruitcake be the first signs or romance
in the life of our benevolent Rufus
Rayne. The reaction when the sub
ject is mentioned should be enough.
BS at 3

  

The sudden increase in the number
of players on the team at Acadia
was said to be due to the Free dance
for the players afterwards, though
more, perhaps, for the charming
escorts provided. This dance, we
It will be extremely difficult to find all these virtues in one Mate. | understand, was the only Free thing |
To eliminate these difficulties, select two or more, and start a Fraternity | about the game. Lowland hosHouse. Here all are combined in one, and if you let these suggestions pitality.
be your guide, you should have an enjoyable and profitable College Career. Teche

We are sure that Col. Oland will
be greatly. pleased to hear of Don’s)
promotion to corporal. Can this be

T-SQUARE the reward of knowing how to op
everyone feels happy | sure can.”
about the game last Saturday, but}
we know some people who didn’t do |

so well—how come so many en
Flash . Grime wave sweeps
Fader‘'s Drug Store. The mystery
of the missing do-nuts, or who done
it. Perhaps Hanna or Forsythe
could advance further details, though
it is possible that they have the
perfect alibi by this time.

st

Complete your wardrobe with a beautiful |
See

*% x

Several have taken exception to
some things said about certain parties, mentioned in this column. We
wish it understood that there is no

malice aforethought (much) intend
evening wrap.

  

 

our wide assortment

. Johnny Rogers is often called
“Sure Can.” Wonder if there’s any| thing to the rumor that when a pal

 

in sizes 12 to 20.

!erooned “Oh Johnny! How: you can| crate 3 motion picture projector,|ed. We’ve got our eye on you, Adlove.” the girl friend said “Boy! he} ° something else. elaide.

* * & oF oF
Be haste We were wondering if Mike Smith
was the instigator of the greenish
mists, so currently popular in the
land of Rangoon. Let’s have one on (

Mike.

CASINO

Second Week
%

. Why Mussett is burning to get We are eagerly waiting for the
to Sackville—too bad you can’t take | first meeting of the Arts and Science
a ferry boat Bob! ; | Society, which seems long overdue—
gineers went stag?? I guess Lynn | a Why, Engineer Robnison is like the Students’ Bander en
' was right when she told me ’tis a 3 ; it’ be that the executive is leary | 4

5 ls ing a. ‘y ensemble rellow | ‘ .
eruel. eruel world But. no one) Per ene ie eer Sree ace eee |about throwing itself to the wolves,
uel, ‘ - 4 tie and red shirt. Could be that he | . that they are trying to talk the
minded MUCH, for all disappoint-} +:,45 himself a rival to Romeo Rus-| ~@ : ;

ment must have vanished in the las ; a's a Freshmen into something. Where
Boy! you can’t, eriticize: Fresh- loes it stand, re the Students’ Coun- |
warmth of the hospitality (-) shown] an spirit this year. ;

us at Acadia. ceil.
4 NV yd Seo ” *
It seems that Fred Russell likes ADVERTISEMENT eS

varietv—doesn’t Jean. mind, Fred? Tutoring in all su ‘ects. Free And speaking of the Shirreff Hall |

atV HS ; POG s . ‘

But Fred’s not the only ee ead of charge to all ambilious fresh-| initiation, we understand that the)

Bruce Bauld finds Hine! a6 tis said ettes. inspired harpies who ae ye
i ' fulfille r

—to see someone besides “the little of the affairs ered preperi

girl across the street.” Our humble Kipling’s statement abo

f species’.
apologies to Mr. Campbell, we didn’t male of the sp

know you were interested in fusil
ages, etc. Hey! who’s this guy who
A Famous Players Theatre

$25 to $40

 

‘ es

wee
ice eh
a mh Ae

* HALIFAX

gel,

 

Eastern Canada’s
Largest Furriers

 

 

Apply R. B. WEBBER.

—We bet that Betty B. (H.C.A.)
will vouch for his abilities.

     

22 SACKVILLE STREET

       
 
 
 
  
  
     
     
     
     
      
     
    
       
   

HALIFAX
DEANNA

DURBIN

CHARLES
LAUGHTON

with ROBT. CUMMINGS

 

We have a shining example of a
model engineer in our own midst.
All Fellow-Frshmen would do well
'to study Lantz. His inretest in ed| ucation is amazing—he even likes
‘school teachers.

absorbed ‘three hotfoots without batting am eye.
Does Anybody Know Why ? ? ?

. Don Moir thinks that fuzz can
make a is it that ay
you just don’t want ena to get THEE STAR SPECIAL * * *
ahead of you. You might both profit | Boy! Those New
by a few tips from Marty Skinner. Leans sure can wow

‘ _ Verene and Bennett thought |
that one ’lil bottle would bring that
ole’ feeling. (When interviewed Bennett quote, “Gee! I’m sleepy,
wish I could go to bed.’’)

 
  
       
     

  

STUDENTS!

_MAKE GORDON B. ISNOR’S
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR

OVERCOATS
FURNISHINGS

 

Tomorrow, Monday and Tuesday

“PARACHUTE BATTALION”
— and —
“FATHER TAKES A WIFE”

                

Glasgow Mc-|
‘am, or should

       

             
    
   
 

SUITS SHOES |

ain BEE teas

“IT STARTED
WITH EVE”

 

 

Wednes. Thurs.

“INVISIBLE KILLER”
and “TORTURE SHIP”

       
   
     
     

that word be woo? Even a bus-seat
doesn’t cramp the style.

’til the next blotch on the}
always

— Friday

Well,
escutcheon, remember
think of your welfare.

D. O. P. E.

—and save on every purchase by taking
advantage of our Special Students’
Discount at...

GORDON B. ISNOR’S

69 Gottingen Street — Halifax, N. S.

         
 
        
    
   
   

said, we

 

a

 

 

  

ORPHEUS

— Wednes.

 

   
   

  
   
     
     
 
     
       
  
    

Famous la Players Theatre
Friday, Saturday, Monday
October 24, 25, 27

Monday — Tues.
) | “PUDDIN HEAD”
| “MEN OF THE

LLL’

  

        

  
   
  
    
  
 
 
   
  
 
   
 

 

  
   
   
       

     
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
 

 
       
   
  

(The eee of this survey aioe rs Bat (disappears | TIMBERLANDS” Sonja Henie - John Payne
2a lamentable ignorance of the facts| weakly into a classroom), Hea 3 . an
of life It seems inevitable that the} fwart Burke. 2nd Year Science. 0 : ; DA FF H om. ie
identity of William P. Fizzleque is| My guess is Professor Jewitt. Thursday — Friday — Sat. Sun Valley Serenade LO OURS ae
destined to remain a mystery, com-| Fred Taylor, Ist Year Arts. “SAILORS ON LEAVE” with ;

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COI

73 COLLEGE STREET

parable to the Sphynx and English Glen Miller and his Orchestra

2-—Ed.)

Who? Never heard of him. He’s
| probably one of the brothers of
| Yehudi.

J. B. French, 4th Year Science.

That’s a heavy question. Probably
the same as he was last year...
(reflectively) whoever he was then.
Roy, Any Old Year.

Prof. Douglas, that’s who it is.
and he’ll bear watchin, too. That’s
the fellow all right. (Mutters something about slandering his coffee.)
Don Moir, 3rd Year Engineering.

I’ll bet he’s W. P. himself.
George Mosher, Ist Year Commerce.
_ Colin Smith, (naturally).

ioe gtd gh a eh a |
ere oats 2m

 

“TALES OF THE PECOS”

 
       
   

  
   
  
      

Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurs.
October 28, 29, 30

Ronald Colman - Ann Lee
at FE oe

My Life With Caroline

WHO IS WILBUR P. FIZZLEQUE?
Jim Campbell, 3rd Year Science.
I’m d..d if I know. Some of the
professors are probably fizzleques,
if the truth were known.
Leon Chapman, 2 Year Engineering.
I have’t got any ideas. (You’re
telling me. Ed.)
John McLellan, 2nd -Year Arts.
Wilber P. Fizzleque ... (hysterical laughter) . . . I dunno, but it
sounds pretty good. Is it really
somebody, or are you foolin’ Woe

  
   
    
  
  

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday

“BARNACLE BILL”
and “DANCE HALL”

Wednesday and Thursday
“THEY DARE NOT LOVE”

; and
“FRIENDLY NEIGHBORS”

Friday and Saturday
“THEY MET IN BOMBAY”

and
‘MR. DISTRICT ATTORNEY’

 
  

    

    
 
   
      
   
  
 
  
 
   
  

 

Students who not desire a complete course in any of the
een, Courses are admitted as General piace ; |

   

 

  
   
  
   
   
   
 
 

   
  
 

   
  

 

Friday, Saturday, Monday
Oct. 31, Nov. 1, 3

“Dive Bomber”

with ERROL FLYNN
FRED MacMURRAY

Evening Classes in Accounting are held on » MONDAY _ 4
and THURSDAY, 7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per ane +d i At

    

     
  

 

   
  

 
  
 

     

  

vad

ie ee oh Ew
> .
   

     
  

   

 

oe i le aaa POOLS eT eT ee
ae DALHOUSIE GAZETTE October 24, 1941

  
      
   
 
   
 

“oe ghia ~
ya =

Jlunt Acadia’s Axe... Cubs Scalped

 

, Lf " s
. 3 “fr _ ; t
(Ave Ml , vrow
- fs 2
a
? eT oe
ie ee
i a bl iad
gig
a) ye S
>
> 7 5 *
: ie ‘ ,
_ aL =
,

reer | TARE AXEMEN—

. Sp : in protecting the Dal line from as
sault, but Bruce Bauld was having
by AL. MacLEOD

Basil Winters

LIMITED

 

y he
rl gg. ea
v i I Pa s+ VY s&
a o fs » awe sh S
i sa F
a _ i§* *
, aed “ts.
i 4 p ‘s
hoe ; :
DY
ae mY r"
al 1? \e

=

  

difficulty with his kicks, although he
was making good headway when he
carried the ball.

In the closing moments of the 383 BARRINGTON STREET
first half, following a scrum on the
Dal twenty-five, Stairs of Acadia
slipped through the Dal defence to — af feo
register the Acadian’s second and i
last try. The Cubs were in there
fighting all the way, tacklihg hard
and generally roughing it up, but
the slippery Acadia three-quarter
line was too fast for them.

“Corn”, you say? Perhaps so, but with prices going up| Pom Kirkpatrick played a heads.. . The way those Tigers turned on the heat last Saturday | UP %ame as picking quarter, while ;
was a joy to this old heart. Acadia has a fast, aggressive| Ken Jones and Tom Rogers were Now Showing
team, and it takes a better-than-average team to beat them,| ¢*¢cllent in their tackling and ball
but the Dalhousie fifteen had enough on the ball to do it, per-| ¢@**Ymge respectively. FALL AND WINTER
ae ve easily, as at least wee ae an one Dal- | aa aCe
ousie devotee called frantically for aspirin when the Axemen 7 | ’

took a 5-0 lead midway through the first half, but neither lad Tigers Share Top MEN'S SUITS AND

nor lass wavered from a firm conviction that the gold and black| The standing in the Halifax City
must not, and would not, be defeated. & Rugby as of today is as follows: FURNISHINGS.

W. L. Ppe.
Pert of. tS bt ae oe 2° 750
PE Pia iSite vipa a nce 3 .750

1
2 ia EW t's as ihe oes 2 2 .500
they had beaten the Navy, while the Navy had beaten.us, so} 4 004., 2 338

they had a certain psychological feeling of security. What did
beat them, was a large portion of what the intellectuals call I + this Satuva AG.
“intestinal fortitude’, and the Tigers had it in abundance. To ra a eae ee nee ©
those who had witnessed their lackadaisical play in the Dal-| ¥! ‘*@vel te Acadia to take on the
Navy game, it was a revelation to see the Tigers tear in and
pour it on. This column, therefore, has selected a lovely
bouquet of orchids which it herewith delivers to Burnie and his

fF -— The Dalhousie Tigers kept in step
» with the Navy at the top of the| )
| Halifax City Rugby League by de»  feating the Acadia Axement 8-5 at
the latter’s field last Saturday.
_ The initial kick-off found Dal
. playing with the sun and wind at
» their back. There was an exchange
; of kicks between the opposing fullbacks, with Webber holding his own
in the duel. Following a serum at
__ eentre-field, the highly-touted Aca| ia backfield went into action, and
__ earried the ball to the Dal five yard
| line, where Web MacDonald man
ee
ae

| aged to clutch the last man by the
| ankle and bring him down. The play
t ‘returned to centre-fleld, but again,
ir _ the Acadia scrum heeled the ball,
and the three-quarter line hiked it
_ downi the field. This time Webber
_ stopped the second last man, but
the Acadia player’s pass to “Whiff”
Anderson was good, and Anderson
_ carried it across for the first score
| of the game. The Axemen made the
convert from a point directly in
front of Dal’s posts, and the score
read 5-0 for the Wolfville squad.
- During the next ten minutes, the
_. play was entirely in the Acadia half
of the field, with the gold and black
h team doing everything but carry the

Sry mee

 

Somewhere in this favored land the little children sing;

The bands are playing somewhere, and all the church bells ring;
For each Dalhousie student the sun is shining bright,

Each tongue is singing rhapsodies, and every heart is light;

The Tigers are elated, and the campus shouts their fame,

But there is no joy in Wolfville,—for the Axemen lost the game.

ns

me

In the last analysis, however, it wasn’t finish, or polish,
that won the day. The Axemen had a scrum that compared
favourably with ours, and their backfield was faster. Further,

 

Wanderers ........ 0 3 = .000

Axemen, while the Dal Tigers will
be at home to the Wanderers on the
Studley field. Navy will be idle. |

  

ball over. boys, with our compliments for a piece of work well done. SPORT SPICE
: Following a scrum on the Axe- : And while we’ve always been short on predictions, we do Pt
_ men’s twenty-five yard line, Marty maintain that the Tigers can win the league championship if | Value of nothing. Do Mount A

8 easily separated cubes

they’ll only keep up to the standard of play they set in their students think that we have no; | of fine french-style chocolate
latest, and best joust with the foe. There will be no winning oe . ope toctnal team, and that | each filled with liquid golden
with slip-shod playing. The other teams in the league have| We Won't raise a foot, hand or voice | lla b

rounded into form, and will be laying for the Tiger pelt. It} t? support it, no matter how well it | vanilla butter creme en

 

 

MacDonald took the ball and snakehipped his way through the entire
_ Wolfville team to ring up Dal’s
first try on a beautiful effort. Jack
McKenzie’s -attempt to convert was
successful, the ball grazing the top
of the bar, and the game was all
tied up. ;
Play had only been resumed for
a few minutes when the Dal forwards heeled the ball» cleanly at
centre-field and McIntosh took it on
the run. The Dal backfield had
_ shifted into high gear, and the ball
went from McIntosh to Jo-Jo Feindel to Yank Forsythe to “Andy”
__ Anderson, who fell on it, with half
| the Acadia team atop him. The
A convert attempt was from a difficult
| angle, and was unsuccessful.

| __ All the scoring had been done in

 

 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

will take hard practice and hard playing, and a large measure | Performs? . Perhaps there are a few |
of support from the Dalhousie student body. But it can be} °f US who profess to be absolutely
done. « devoid of interest in all things rela
The Mount Allison Argosy this week comes out with a| “Ye te sport, “but even such a man, |
statement that at Dal “interest in football is virtually dead”, | 8° *!"t 8° spiritless, so dull, so |
which seems to be a premature, thoughtless and unfounded | 424 ™ 00k, so woe-begone
observation. It would seem to indicate that Dalhousie students | (Shakespeare: Henry IV) could Boy
are not behind their winning teem; that we are a group of un-| PUt Swell with pride at the Tigers’ |

enthused cynics, who know the price of everything and the| Sowing im the City League. We
; do not think small beer of our
selves. We are behind our team to|
a man, and win or lose we shall |
| applaud, fortissimo, their gridiron)
| struggles.

MacLeod - Balcom =|

LIMITED |
[|

Nd

 

 

 

r
     
 
   

 

  

i the first half, and the second half
- opened with Dal playing into the

i isan and wind, and the Acadians
_ hungry for another score. However,
< play in this period was about even,
with the scene of action shifting
continually from one end of the
field to the other. The Axemen’s

| backfield seemed unable to click,
being hampered by the spirited
_ drive and the hard tackling of the
‘Tigers.
r And so the game ended with Dal
| protecting its three point lead, and

the Acadia fans setting up fruitless
| pleas for scores by their team.
Tigers:

Fullback: Webber

Three-quarters: Feindel, McLean, |
| McKenzie, Marty McDonald.

    

Of course you are! And you
won't have any worry about
every detail of evening gown,
tux or tails if you have it renewed, reshaped and restyled
by Cousins. |

 

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

C)

| HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
| KENTVILLE, N. 8S.
|

 

L-2323

 

 

   

LIMITED

CLEANERS LAUNDERERS DYERS STORAGE

: : ag S ig 4

Ad A

 
   
  

   
 

ee Forsythe, McIntosh Mc- Call the Halifax Steam Laundry—L-3741

Cormack. |

| Perens Melvor, Arderaon, Mc- —for laundry service that will please you. | th t P

| Gregor, Ideson, Wilson, Web Mc- Our dress shirts are outstanding. | O1 asses

   

Donald.

 

Halifax Steam Laundry

 

 

any Ceaminniion Ie

(ies men know Tip Top Tailors >
make an exhaustive study of the kind of
overcoats you want and will appreciate

the authenticity of our presentation. At

your Tip Top store you'll find a grand

selection of overcoatings to choose from

—meltons, velours, tweeds, whitneys,

   

INTERMEDIATE GAME
The Dal Cubs played an exhibition

    

ie

5 match with the Acadia Intermedi- )
ates in a session preliminary to the
|

| EVENING GOWNS

senior game on Saturday afternoon,
the equal of anything seen in senior SPORTSWEAR— .

    
         
     
 

' and came out on the zero end of a
6-0 seore. The Acadians trotted

 
   
         
     
      
   
 
  
  
   
  

  

chinchillas, fleeces and alpines —
circles this season, and their speed | expressly tailored for you to do the
was the factor which turned the AFTERNOON DRESSES most for your figure.

 
  
  
    
   
    

   
  

tide in favour of the Little Hatchets. |
In the first few minutes of the
_ game, Joe Cantwell’s kick was
| blocked on the Acadia twenty-five

No matter what your size or proportions, rest assured that your Tip Top
Tailored-to-measure overcoat will have

Always something different line, grace, fit—an easy-flowing rhythm

    
   
 
 
 
   

    
  
   
   
  

yard stripe, and the ball was re- : at reasonable prices. The h that all adds up to top-flight style.
. covered by the Acadians who whip- :
| ped down the field to elude all pur- exclusive Style Centre.

$99.75

Catlored-to-Measure

TIP TOP

_ suit, and carry it over.

MS The Cubs were playing with the
| wind at their backs, and at this
r point in the struggle began to press

e &
| dangerously. However, they lost K A ; , S ' i: d
a more than one golden opportunitv Imi e

| by kicking too far, and giving the

 

 
  
 
   
  
  

   
  
  
  
  
     
    
  

   

  

| junior Axemen an opportunitv to 481-483 BARRINGTON STREET
: touch the ball down behind their T A I Z 6) KR ©
own: posts for safeties. Zatsman. Phone B-6563 Halifax, N. S.
of the Cubs was doing noble work. smactool
(Continued on Col. 4) PIU at ut ets, Limit 4
Ae r tg SRAM \, , a mS ee ek
2 BE EVE Neti be Boe pO Ue a hls
A eabe A ti rae
