   
   
   
   
     
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 
   

 
  

.t>
et,
4

4

  
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
   
   
   
  
    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
       
  

 

 

 
  

‘An interest in the conscription
now being pushed in certain
across the country, is shown

ee,

a press. Most of the

- comment seems to indicate that
_ Canadian students don’t believe that
Jit is. necessary and also that it
would not be worth the disruption
most likely to come in the country’s

t - political life.

——

The lighter dunes in life noted in.

» the Varsity remind us that our own

; lay Ball is on Nov. 14 (plug). Advice to those who “lak a wee drap”
upon their descent to the floor: —
(a) Just lie there: they think
you fainted.
(b) Get, up edestaliy: they’ll

think it’s part of the step.

(ce) Begin mopping the floor with
your handkerchief; they’ll think you
work there.

The Gateway from Alberta gives
a bunch of orchids to the university
radio station’ CKUA with its in
-__erease in power and all that. From
_ the cuts its a nice set-up.

The Gateway also adds:
“1 don’t like her”.

“Why not?” .
“Her neck’s dirty.”
“Does her?”

 

Queen’s has put a coed into office
as head of its alma mater society.
This, coming on top of a centenary
celebration seems an omen.

Maritime Debating
Conference Held

The annual conference of the
Maritime Intercollegiate Debating
League was held last Thursday
afternoon, the 23rd, in the Forrest
Building. All the colleges of the
League, Dal, St. Mary’s, St. Francis
Xavier, St. Thomas, Acadia and Mt.
Allison, were represented except
U.N.B. and King’s, — the former,
however, is participating in intercollegiate debates this year, while
the latter may not be able to: remain an active member.

A tentative constitution for the
League was the first business on the
agenda to be attended to. After a
quick, but thorough revision of this
document it was officially approved
and adopted as a fitting constitution for the League. The question
of mixed debates was left to the option of each college.

The following schedule of debates
was then drawn up:

Dalhousie vs Acadia at Acadia.

Dalhousie vs. St. Thomas’ at Dal.

Dalhousie vs. St. Mary’s at Dal.
Dal was represented by Walter
Gaudet, Ed Morris and Ted King.

After the conference Sodales was
host to the representatives at a
dinner in the Lord Nelson Hotel.

Arrangements are now being
made for the Dal.-St. Mary’s debate
about November 20th.

Watch the bulletin boards for
further announcements and

Dalhousie. You might be advised
that four debates (20 points) give |
you a gold D, and a Radio debate,

The | which we are endeavouring to ar
world isn’t going to the dogs but , range this year, 212 points.

we'll give you three guesses as to
where it is ‘going.

 

A poll in Mount A’s Argosy tells
us that freshettes think college men
above average. Sophs and Juniors
have a definitely negative opinion.

Seniors are undecided. An analysis |

of the senior attitude. might be to
say it was one of resignation but
maybe the seniors aren’t such a bad
lot after all. ?

 

oe

_ Note: Aue students from other
ae colleges wishing to see
their college papers drop into the

Gazette office practically any ny

_ between 12 and 1 p.m.

A ballot form is included in
_ your favorite.

ie Forrest Building under “G”
week we'll announce the winner.

eyes and choose at random.

 

af "Wake Your Choice of Dal’

 

 

During the month of December the Postal authorities require
the services of a larger number

‘| of temporary employees to

| handle Christmas mails.

Students, male and female, are
invited to apply for temporary
positions, beginning after the
Christmas examinations, or earlier for those who are free.

Application should be made as
soon as possible to the Superintendent_ of Mails, Room 301,
Federal Building (Post Office),

 

s Sweater Queen Today!

Tear it out and mark

   

this issue.

Slip the ballot under the Gazette door or in the letter box at

before Wednesday noon and next

If you don’t know a sweater when you see one, just shut your

udley, ‘augmented by the Freshettes, seems to have the
aes of likely eae but as the Meds have Adelaide

tek ie. 7 tekts, however, can safely rely on eee fudwibtent of
a | -Tiek Fennell or Bob Bingham to cast their ballots rightly.
, if you were chiseled out of your vote in the N. S. elections or
nether you just like to cut coupons in seap contests, satisfy that

3 tidden urge and choose DALHOUSIE’S SWEATER QUEEN.

ae ps

of “Sloppy Joes”.

x *

=

. sss
‘1%

Ai

Pema tee” 3

Cte ewer ter ew ew hee eee ee ee ee

.—We almost forgot post-grad Joan Ballem, local originaShe is a most eens candidate.

| SWEATER QUEEN CONTEST BALLOT
a eres accurate facsimiles accepted)

(of Nominee)

a

is (Sloppy, moderate or form-fitting)

Seek Forrest mail box or seeks office.
: above for detail s)

me a ~~
Vi pee Sed) 5
ie tui a . :
ila = vee af

 

®

 

:

make |

this a banner year for debating at |
|

|

events...

   

| deavour to make it a huge success. |
|The Rally has been planned to bring| a corner on “College Spirit”.

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 31, 1941

tomorrow afternoon in the Gym
after the Acadia
Game.

No. 5

 

®

ENTHUSIASM HIGH AS
DAL - ACADIA CLASH

Cheers, Ries Dancing Tigers Bid for Title
Feature Rally |

Plans are nearing completion for |
a gigantic Pep Rally to be held this |
evening in the Gymnasium in prep- |
aration for the Acadia game tomorrow afternoon. The Rally bids fair
to become the largest thing of its
kind to be witnessed at Dalhousie
for many years. The last such
Gathering was conducted two years
ago on the night before the Dal
Tigers took the field against Caledonia in competition for the McCurdy Trophy, emblematic of Rugby
supremacy of Eastern Canada. Since
that time enthusiasm has gradually
been submerged at Dal and a spirit
of inertia has gripped the campus.
In an attempt to whip up this enthusiasm once more, with another
City League title’ in sight, the| College game will be apparent, as
Council has made extensive plans} Dal intends to make an all-out effor this evening’s program in an en-| fort to display to visiting Acadians

In Decisive Clash

Tomorrow afternoon the Dal
Tigers begin the final drive toward
the City League Title and, beyond
that, Caledonia and the McCurdy
Cup. By clinching the match with
| Acadia the Tigers are at least assured of a tie at the top of the
League standing, with the Navy as
the only possible competitor. But
with the Navy having to meet a rejuvenated Wanderers’ club tomorrow
at Redland and then Acadia in the

position is anything but hopeless.

With the Pep Rally tonight calculated to stir up some interest in
| toomrrow’s match, a large turnout
is expected. All the color of a

 

out every student to support the! Dalhousie band will be in atten—___—__— | dance.

| Alec MacIntosh, Inez Smith,

and John MacLellan are to lead the
 abisere and it is rumoured that a
surprise has been prepared for Acadians during half time.

 

 

 

}

The Tigers enter the game in tip
top condition and have shown fine
form: throughout the week in practices. Their

ie.

WEBSTER MACDONALD
President of the Students’ Council |
and Promoter of the Pep Rally to
be held Somjght in un! Se nassen.

 

in Wolfville two weeks ago.
| Saturday the Tigers gave a convincing show of power against the
Wanderers during the first half but
_ wilted badly in the latter part of the
|game. The main fault of the team
seems to be lack of tackling on the
rugby team in its drive for City | part of all players. It is apparent
League supremacy. It is under the | to everyone that the ball is being
direction of Council President Web| loosened up in the backfield much
MacDonald who has, along with) more so than at the beginning of the
several other supporters of the} season. There is, however, still a
scheme, devoted time and energy in| very pressing need for a dependable
undertaking the management of the| place kicker. To date, of those who

 

 

to have shown the greatest promise

| Dalhousian to attend the eemennS |
in this line. Of the game, Coach

in order to drown for once and for

|| all the ever-increasing impression) Ralston would only say that the

that Dal has no vestige of College | team would win if the players got
Spirit remaining. ._/into the spirit of the thing and
The Rally is to be held partly in) played the way in which they are
the gymnasium and partly on the | capable of doing. °
campus. Web MacDonald will launch |
| the meeting with an address to the |
'assembled students. He will be fol
‘lowed by Professor Bell, Major

 
  
  

|ed to begin at 2 o’clock,
| Senior Match to start at 3 o’clock.

A tea dan s to be hel he
| eee and Coach Burnie Ralston, | dance is to ye held in une
+ | ‘gymnasium immediately following

_who plan speeches of encouragemen
'to the team. Following this, the |
| players themselves will be introduc- |
led individually by Major Hogan.
Cheer leaders Inez Smith, John Mc
Clellan and Alex MacIntosh are
planning to lead the students in|
cheers, while John Windebank and

the game and in
Shirreff Hall. Everyone is invited
to attend this and a nominal sum

fray expenses. The Open House
begins at 8.30 and dancing will con\ tinue until 12.

 

Al. (Moose) “MacLeod conduct the
|songs. Mimeographed sheets of |
| both songs and @hiGers are being pre- ‘
‘pared and are to be distributed upon Lineup:
entrance to the Gym.
Probable lineup for the Acadia

Pians had been made in preparation for°a huge bonfire to be built
on the campus, but at the time of
this writing difficulties had arisen
in obtaining permission for this

Game:
Forwards: Ideson, MacIntosh, An
derson, MacGregor, Milligan, Wilson
MacDonald.

peeetn the Air Raid Precautions! Walves: Forsyth, Kerr, Macint<sh. |

Committee. Whether or not there Pahoa Macl 
is to be a bonfire, however, a dance «iat ag epee ROgaaNe tal Sarde: =
: Kenzie, Fiendel, MacDonald.

in the Gymnasium following the

Rally will conclude the evening’s Fullback: Webber.

mes |

'
:

 

final League fixture next week Dal’s |

that they in Wolfville do not possess |
The |

| (not

best performance to |
date was displayed against Acadia |
Last |
| Even the length of time over which
| the
| dialogues and what have you will |

| Betty Grable’s in scanty

event and he strongly urges every | have been used, Don MacLean seems |
inoeg ane
| thing different, but it is also one of

The Intermediate game is schedul- |
with the |

the evening an |
Open House will be conducted at}

“of $.25 will be charged to help de- |

 

PEP RALLY TONITE

FRESHMAN SHOW NEXT FRIDAY

 

Shown above are prominent members of the Freshman Show cast
as they were snapped at a recent rehearsal. Reading from left to right,
they are: Lynn Marcus, Les MacLean, Babe White, Doug Robertson,
Dorothy Rose.

Rehearsals have finally been put
under way in preparation for the
Gala Freshman show which has.
definitely been set for November 7,
November 4, as previously
stated.)

Seript writers have put the finishing touches to their manuscripts,
casting has been undertaken and a
veritable galaxy of beautiful, georetc. gals are awaiting the |
curtain. All that has to be done is
to round the show into some semblance of shape. At least the show
will be novel, which is something |
for which we may all feel thankful. |

Lee. With this to work on, the
President of the Glee Club, Don
Kirkpatrick, was not backward in
declaring that the show had great
possibilities but added that much of
| how it goes over will depend upon
the audience itself.

 

Predicting

geous,

series of skits, revues, dances,
It is prestretch
last for

extend is something new.
dicted that the entire show,
it how you may, will only
one hour.

Instead of the usual
an ingenious directorate has engineered a scheme whereby two shapely |
costume
parade before the footlights |
large placards to introduce
act. Not only. is this some
programs,

will
with.
each

the methods which the Glee Club)
intends to make use of throughout |
the year in order to make both ends | . A fine show for next Friday
meet financially. 'evening, Don Kirkpatrick, Presi
As to the show itself, rumors of| dent of the Glee Club, called upon
strip tease chorus girls galore are| the audience to give their full coflying about hither and yon. Oh,/ operation by refraining from heckshades of Minsky and Gipsy Rose ling the actors.

22 ERO.

 

 

“>

” *
(Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion)
Shdéuld Dalhousie Erect a Men’s Residence?
Apparently this was not a particularly good question to ask, as there

was no difference of opinion on the matter. All the students cuizzed
said that such a building should definitely be erected, and many blamed
the lacking of school spirit at Dal on the ahsence of a residence. Several

_ students suggested, however, that it might be advisable not to undertake

such. a project until after the war.

Do You Know Rufus Rayne?
An attempt was made this week to ascertain the number of Frosh

who had as yet not made the acquaintance of our local Dictator. The

| solon of the Gym seems to have a large and avid following among the

 

:
)

campus newcomers, for only 13% of those questioned did not know who
Rufus Rayne was. One neophite thought that Rufus was the Major's
batman, but your reporter set him straight on that.

What Is Your Opinion of D.O.P.E.?

“Kind of Dopey” was the general response to this. Apparently everyone reads it, though, because of those questioned, only one was a
trifle dense as to what D.O.P.E. was, or perhaps he was just dense; and
an ardent supporter declared it to be the only organ through which the
dopes of the campus could express themselves.

  

  
     
  

 

_
i
, a
eee
y a
?

mS
¥

Fa Pe
es

‘

« ae = yf

a a a

a 4 = be

ee

i. #

AT
bas

Ee

a

—_

= > = a
‘
7

+

i et :
y

 

” | eam PT I a
2
; ar i it

a gh
he

a |
ss
.

a?

_ ae eee
oe =
a

- ee

pe. 7 ee
st

as
See:

=e

Ps - ‘
je Pes CR My
3

" ‘ 7
‘ ed t i —
5

\ Tips
: .

pio
'

ers

¢
“?
a
ae 4
bl at
Reo! « i
ine ah
lee Taew
a
i
oN
: .
Sie
ant A
a oe
h ‘a ».
ae r
ee =
= —
5 ‘
;
a

a4

:
et

_ present appearance of the bulletin boards?
_ a public service.

  

;

  

author;

Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St., Halifax
GAZETTE STAFF

the
the

Editor: JOHN W.

GRANT - - - = - - B-8576

News Editor: A. S. FORSYTH - - - - - S-2936
orts Editor: AL MACLEOD - ~ 8 - - B-8576
eatures Editor: JOHN TASMAN ~ - - - S-2597

_ Literary Editor: LOUISE BISHOP - - - - - B-9746
* ©.U.P. and Exchange: DON BLACK - - - : B-5043
~ Proof Editor: DAVID COLDWELL - - - - - eres
anh 7h -045

Business Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD

SS

   

‘ TOWARDS A CAMPUS RINK
A subject under discussion at meetings of the Students’
Council lately has been the advisability of providing an outdoor rink on the campus. The proposal, which certainly appears to have merit if it is practicable at this time, has found
some support on the Council, but the opposition has also been
quite vocal. The time may not appear opportune. Allocations
from the budget to all societies have been cut considerably,
and this cut has affected the athletic activities of the univer
sity most of all. It might seem advisable to leave this project,
like the Students’ Union building, until “aprés la guerre.”

The only serious objection to a campus rink at the present
time is a financial one. No one denies that it would be a very
good thing for Dalhousians to have an opportunity to skate
on their own campus on the nights they want and without
paying high prices to downtown rinks. Even in ordinary
times, it is difficult to obtain a suitable night at a city rink,
‘and the money we pay out thus would go a long way toward
supporting a rink of our own. The war has added to the difficulties of obtaining other rinks. The Forum has been taken
over, and the Arena has had to take over all its business. In
the future we may expect even greater difficulty in obtaining
skating sessions there.

It has been one of the great misfortunes of Dalhousie
that circumstances have compelled students to find their main
recreation outside the boundaries of the campus.

oe a
i r _
— 
yy

| es

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

LITERARY

 

 

“BLESSED ARE THEY”

A Short Short Story

Prokov raised himself on one
elbow and groaning involuntarily,
looked out of the window of the
small bedroom into the moonlit yard
as he had done a score of times
during the night, an endless number
of times during the interminable

knew the intensity of courage by
which the decision had been made.
In her the desire to continue living
had slowly ebbed along with the
hope that the baby’s sufferings
would be released. The waiting for
the end had been so long that hope

series of nights which stretched | abandoned, she’ now moved about
back further than his dazed sense | mechanically, attending her child
could recall. Turning with an effort, with a pathetic tenderness which

from contemplation of the

his young wife who lay beside him,
twitching and murmuring in a
troubled sleep.
welled over him, pity for her, momentarily bringing him a queer relief from his own anguish and
despair.

From the far corner of the little
room the tiny voice of their baby
continued its shrill screaming,
drenching the whole house and its
other two occupants with its agony.

Prokov painfully lowered his head
onto the pillow and traced with his
eyes the pattern of the tattered
window-curtain through which the
moonlight filtered.
the room was fixed in his mind as
sharply as though it had engraved
on his brain with hammer and
chisel. Cursing inaudibly he tore
his gaze from the curtain and closed
his eyes, shutting out the wierd unreality of the scene and forcing his
_attention on the terrible screaming
from which his every sense was
straining to escape. Back through

Our large} ., eternity he remembered the

dances, our hockey matches, even some of the meetings of morning when the baby. had been

our organizations, take place of necessity outside

the univer- | born, recalled with a pang the sud
still |
scene outside he allowed his gaze
to wander over the drawn face of.

A wave of pity|

Every detail of |

 

|
|

sity. A rink on the campus would help to solve that problem.| go, relief he had felt when he|
It would enable Dalhousie boys and girls to get together at! }arnedq that Olea was well. and

Dalhousie as Dalhousians.
consciousness would not be a bad idea.

Such a cementing of university | jeard the

strange, fragile voice
which announced that their baby had

In discussing such a matter at this time the expense in-| begun its life. For nearly two years

volved should be considered carefully.

It should be remem-| they had watched their little son’s

bered, however, that such a project would save money as well! development with hope and satis
as spend it. There would, of course, be considerablbe €X-| faction. And then one morning in

| March, when the brown earth was

pense involved in equipping and maintaining such a rink, but

it would end the present necessity of paying out money when-| just beginning to break through the
ever we want to play a hockey game or have a skating session. | winter’s snow, the periods of unexIt is the considered opinion of a number of students that, in| plainable crying had begun, gradu
the long run, we would be saving money, rather than losing

| ally lengthened, and returned so

it, while in the meantime we would be skating oftener and en-| often that they became almost con
joying our evenings more.

IN DEFENCE OF NOT CHEERING |
nothing of interest has been taking place on their campuses, |
to “pan” Dalhousians for the lack of some mystical thing
called “college spirit’, or, to be specific, for not cheering at
football games. College activities have apparently been at a
new low during the past weeks, judging from the number of
comments on this very thing. Dalhousians have usually been
very tolerant about these insinuations, so much so that others
have even presumed that we accepted them as true. We feel
that it is about time to rise up and make a real defence of our |

habit of remaining silent at games of any sort, which is our
inalienable right. |

From this don’t imagine that we are against cheering. On
the contrary, we are all for it. What we do object to is the
habit prevalent in some quarters of judging a student’s loyalty
to his college by the amount of cheering he does and the num-|
ber of college sweaters he owns. It is all to common a mistake.
to judge the value of a college education by the number of yells.
memorized at the end of four years and the fervour with which |
graduates pronounce the name of their Alma Mater. |

 

 

If Dalhousie does not measure up well by that standard lintensity and he sat there, fecing| To the Lord Major Hogan on id
3 | Proposals of Certain Doctors at the

|Committee for Military Exemption.

then we are proud of her. Most of us came to college for a’
liberal education, hoping to find a university at which we could
enjoy an atmosphere of tolerance and where we could take part
in the disinterested search for truth. We are, generally speak-.
ing, interested in college affairs, even football teams, but we are
not rabid. We expect our football teams to be good, and when |
they are we consider it nothing to be excited about. And when
fans from other colleges, seeing their teams go down to defeat,
make loud noises to encourage them, we regard it as hardly
sportsmanlike and are so disgusted that we keep a stony
silence. This always disconcerts our opponents and we usually
win. Our teams are used to loyalty, not hysteria, so they
understand us perfectly.

This is not to say that we are against cheering. Of course
we like cheering. We do, however, protest against judging a
college education by something which should be a small part)
of college life. During four years in university we should learn
something about art and music, something about the great
masterpieces of literature which have been produced, and we
should gain some ability to make an intelligent appraisal of
world trends in politics and in general thought. If we do not!
learn those things in the course of our life at a university, we
are not likely to learn them later. These things are the essence

of oom education, and they should be kept foremost in our
minds, ©

 

 

 

PLEASE!

. For weeks now the Council has been calling for applications |
for the post of Editor of the “Bulletin”. Do you like the

} I know I don’t.
Surely some student with a sensitive eye will apply. It will be |

e4 ~ . ‘

 

 

tinuous.
the city, had told the parents that
cancer was gnawing at the sensitive

organism of the child’s sight. They |
It has long been the custom of rival college papers, when had found no way of relieving the |

little creature’s pain, had despaired |
absolutely of any cure and had
promised that the end would not be!
long.

The wracked, tortured man in the
bed, his slight chest heaving with
effort, fought for control of his
thoughts. Fantastic things occurred
in his mind during these terrible
nights—fear held him in vice as he
sometimes tried to imagine the
suffering of the little figure in the
crib, the distraught workings of the
infant mind. Quivering from the
bursting pressure in his head, he)
finally summoned the strength to
grasp his overcoat and move out |
onto the front step. As he closed |
the door the sound diminished its|

 

in his pocket for pipe and tobacco.
The expanse of prairie, where remnants of the first snow of another |
winter lay in glistening patches,
flooded in on, Prokov’s mind and
soothed his sense. Here he could
steady himself, and grapple with the
idea that had been returning to his
mind with repeated emhasis at intervals throughout the weary summer and fall. |

* * * |

In the morning Prokov drove into
the city and purchased twenty feet
of hosepipe. He muttered something
or other in return to the clerk’s|
polite amenities, carefully inserted
the change into his purse in an
effort to cover up his agitation and
strode from the store. On the way
back he mentally rehearsed each
step of the procedure he had planned for his return. He was steady
now, firm and resolute. Olga had
recovered after a brief period of
hysteria and agreed to the plan.
Pushing back a straggling lock of
brown hair from her forehead with
a slow movement of her arm she
had raised her burning eyes to his
and told him she would stand by
him. From everything about her
appearance at that moment Prokov

 

 

| The

| With

seemed to be her heart’s only manifestation of life. To grasp the situation in her own hands had required
shaking herself free of the heavy
stupor which had possessed her and
cast its protecting film about her
mind. To agree to help kill her own
child and then face life on the future side of the action was almost
more than her weakened physique
could bear.

When Prokov backed the car up
to the window, affixed the hose to
the exhaust pipe and handed her the
other end she lowered the window,
supporting it with a stick of wood
so that it would not rest on the hose
and laid the end of the pipe alongside of the still screaming Charles
Albert Prokov, age two years and
six months, covered the crib with a
blanket and paced aimlessly and distractedly about the room, waiting
for the screaming to cease. When
it did she could control her impulse
no longer, she caught up the child,
striding about the room with it as

she kissed it and held it against |

her. It was dead.

Olga did not remember her hus
band coming into the room, but she |

suddenly became aware of his inert
body slumped across the hosepipe
in front of the closed window.
After placing the child in its crib
with exaggerated care she began to
drag the unconscious man to the
doorway. Just as consciousness left
her she was aware of the sound of
the car engine, still running outside
ana the pounding of an excited fist
on the outside door.

oe

Staring out across the prairie
from the prison window, Olga had

a feeling of being separated from

Specialists, called in from | the earth and its weight of tragedy
| ; | by an infinity of space. The news

that her husband was in a critical
state in a mental hospital had left
her with an odd absence of concern.
Twg thoughts possessed her. She

| had been merciful where they would
| not be,

A world of agony had been

| quelled and the screaming had stop| ped. Now there would be a solemn

trial, and those who had refused
mercy to her child would sit in
judgment upon her. The strange
rules of society which had forbidden
her to solve her problem had now
been presented with a problem of
their own. ‘Blessed are the merciful for they shall receive merey.”
Amen, “Thou shalt not kill.” Amen.

A woman’s laugh
prairie stillness like
blade of a woodsaw.

into the
ragged

cut
the

|

 

Hogan, our chief of whose
voice doth make
A thousand willing feet to move as

one,

men,

To stand, to turn, to walk, and even

run.

Oh, Dulcet one, thy tones do cause

to quake

|The hearts of stalwart men, and

even shake

ground beneath thy sacred feet,

have done

base civilian dogs.
should be none

Who do not bow and follow in thy
wake.

There |

| Haul forth these cowards who know

thee not;

These fools who think that they to
college go

To get an education.
show

These beastish swine that they are
talking rot.

And those poltroons whom fate has
granted E’s

“I don’t mind telling you” must
bend their knees.

(Apologies to J. Milton.)

Thou must

(Not in our unit.—Ed.)

 

 

 

 

 
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
      
 
     
  
  
    
 

Faders Drug Stores.

|

|

 

 

46 Granville St.

CLASS PINS

Henry Birks & Sons

American Gem Society
Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

  
 

October 31,1941

/

“The purest form
in which tobacco
be smoked.”

cen

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!

 

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 

~~ 
Jerry

 

 

135 HOLLIS STREET }
29 COBURG ROAD N | 4
x augler’s
HALIFAX Nova Scotia ‘
Leama Orchestra r
ASK FOR CT
DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES m

 

Halifax, N. S. Call H-6032

After any Show

or * . »

Before any Meal

Think of ...

The
GREEN LANTERN

Would you like your
Class Pin to be “different?”

Birks styling and
quality, plus Birks experience will assure
you of smartness.

LIMITED
Registered Jewellers,

Dalhousie Cniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized st

of M.A., M.Se. anding, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarshi

ps, on entrance and throug
the courses. =n

The Professional Faculties

. . * in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

: average about $160 ,
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a aan nie

Shirreff Hall, residence for women. \
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.
a

Residence
'

    

be de ,
ee ooo # - +
    

 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 

ae A

te Bow 1 TO | WRITE AN ENGLISH 2 THEME
ag the many Courses intended to baffle the minds of the Student

xlish, In this field, the most difficult and interesting is English 2,
nvites you to expose how little you know about anything by writing
1 on it. About the only thing which seems Definitely Settled
abou “this course is that on a certain hour on Monday morning these
" Phasiens hail ‘be deposited at the Library. On the assumption that
everyone ‘knows where this is, here is an attempt (unofficial) to enlighten

    
   

   
  
  
  
 
 

4 wee gan). Who is this Barbara, any-| these Navy lads, though maybe
b ‘hy Sie those taking English 2, in the practise and fury of Theme Writing. way, Jim? Joan has other ideas. One trouser

a ag ea To begin with, the Title of the Theme for the following week is
:<s) generally announced sometime during Monday’s Lecture. The exact time
bie of this is, of course, kept Utterly Secret by the lecturer, to assure a
little attention. The purpose of this to give you a Head-Start. Take
the Title down carefully, and contrive to lose it before the next lecture.
This will assure a Good Theme.
The next thing to observe is that the following lectures have nothing
Lhe do with the theme. This is to enable you to think about it. No one
has ever been able to discover what the lectures in English 2 are about,
but they are designed to sooth you into a false sense of Security. This
will not be discovered by the unwary until Too Late.
Having Thought about the:theme, you are now confronted with the
problem of writing it. For the beginner, the hours between 2.30 and 5.00
a.m. Monday are recommended as the best for Good Theme writing. By
this time, the realization that the Theme must be finished will lend Wings
to your thoughts. Allot yourself a good 2 to 3 hours and attempt to
_ finish in the given time. This is invaluable training.
The first requisite of a Good Theme is that the Title must be changed.
This is essential. To hand back a Theme with the Original Title is
nothing short of Heresy (or Hearsay). Any other Title is acceptable,
whether it bears on the Theme or not, but it is recommended that you
leave this until the last.
The subject of the Theme can be left to the discretion of the Writer.
Some clue to what is expected is generally given by the Title. This,
however, can be completely disregarded, Let us suppose the suggested
Title is, Shakespeare: His attempts at the Reformation of the Young,
during his fifth Period. It is well to disregard this completely, and write
on something you know a little about. Look Carefully, and try and find
some juicy quotation. Write your Theme around this.
To illustrate, let us take the Quotation ,“Out, out, damned Spot”.
From this any number of successful Themes could be derived. For ex- ample: Shakespeare’s use of Strong and Abusive Language; His Morals;
His rejection of the Third (or any) Period; Period Literature; His use
of Punctuation; Etc., etc. You see how simple it is?
Having gitatdished your topic, it now becomes necessary to write
800 words, generally dealing with this. A safe plan to pursue is the
following. For the first 300 words, attempt to compare Shakespeare to
Milton. This will land you in deep water, but endear you to the Lecturer.
Extricate yourself, and for the next 300 words, go on to show that
Shakespeare didn’t write anything} but only copied it from someone else;
or that he was Ben Johnson or someone else himself. This will show
you know a little about Shakespeare, though it won’t endear you to
anyone. All this should occupy a good three-quarters of your theme. You
can fill the rest out with Quotations.
This is the most important phase of Theme Writing. The most,
successful plan is to secure a good book of Quotations from the Library.
Look through this, until you come to Shakespeare. Pick several good, |
meaty Quotes, and write them in your Theme Book, anywhere. As the
Theme develops, you will find yourself running into them, and generally
they can be made to fit somehow. Be sure to state the correct referénce
for your Quotes, though its best not to mention the Quotation Book itself.
If you have difficulty in making your Quotes fit, discard them ruthlessly. This only goes to prove that Shakespeare isn’t as versatile as you |
are led to believe. Instead, invent yourself Quotes, and forge references
in boldly. As an example, it might become necessary to illustrate the |
statement that Lady Macbeth wasn’t a nice person. You are stuck for a|t
quote. Well then, invent one, thus: “O, Soulless spouse, thou damisjoua'
dame”. Attribute it to any of Shakepeare’s numerous Servants or a
_tendants. As a last resort, for the exceedingly unimaginative, you can
put Quotation Marks around any given Sentence in your Theme and leave
it to the Lecturer to find who said it.
If, after these Helpful Hints, you still continue to make D minus
on your Themes, you are-advised to become an Engineer, for this is undoubtedly your calling.

Pi. Ph.

The Dalhousie Organ of Puerile Enigmas

   
   
  
  

 

   
   
  

l

‘

    
    

 
 
  
 

.,

4 ee

  

“}
omy

S oa

ae

2 af

    
 
 

    
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
    
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
 

 

 

;

that Johnny MacLean is in the mar
  
   
     

9°

| “If Winter comes, can Spring be far Behind?

gan was unable to make his usual
week-end pilgrimage to Acadia last |.
week. What have Acadia freshettes
got that ours haven’t (except Milli
drags Jackson and Rice there over
the week-ends.
don’t speak so well for our institution on South. Street.

Brockville of none other than our

Reardon. We take this opportunity

to weleome him home, though it

won’t be for long.
*

the Best Man’s job stops at the
altar, Murray, so how about giving
the newlyweds a chance.
what we mean.

nice low lights at Council Dance.
Personal reasons, Don, or were you
trying to please the crowd. Greater
love hath no man...

ment unattached, would like to use
this column to find ‘some nice girl
to take’ to the Med Ball.

   

EATON’S

Men! Here’s Topnotch
Value for You!

 

We were sorry to hear that Milli-| will find him in the gym store after
any ‘D’ coy, parade.
* * *

Don McKeigan seems to be having

his troubles, too. You can’t beat

   
     

x %*x* *

Too bad these Scottish names all
sound so much alike on the phone,

Sue; you'll never be forgiven.
* oe 2

* + #

: : suits
And speaking of Acadia, what

  
  
 

These migrations

    
 

Could “muscle- bound” Marcus
have been blushing at the game last
Saturday? Perhaps it was the reflection of her neighbor’s coat, but
our guess is that it was the remarks
coming from the boys in the back
row.

*
The happiest face on the campus

ast week-end was that of our
Bunny’ due to the arrival from

* *

   
     
 

ers for only $4.95 a pair!

   
 

# *

We should like to know what happened to Bunny McNeil between the
hours of one and four after the
dance: Surely it didn’t take all that
time to say ‘good-night.’

* *% *

*

  
   
     

a
We should like to point out that

*

‘T E
eo
. *"=MARITI

You know

   
 
    

Ese BSrsc s
EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

564, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

We think it’s about time those
‘Pine Hillbillies’ stopped pestering a
certain lady (7?) and her friends at
a well known residence on Hollis
Street. It just isn’t nice.

a 8G.”

What’s all this we hear about Red
and Bob Blois. Can this be the beginning or the end of a beautiful
friendship. Who were the _ two
stooges?

Grime marches on...

* *

We are indebted to Don for the

+

 

* * a

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED

CJ
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

C]

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. 5.

OXFORD

Monday and Tuesday

“SHEPHERD of the HILLS”
“BACHELOR DADDY”

Wednesday and. Thursday

“MAN-MADE MONSTER”
“HORROR ISLAND”

Bobby Musset, being at the mo
Freshettes

a ——— ||| Mies ‘Mavison,; Johny? | (Johnny,
| by the way, really wants us to open

T-SQUARE /up a Dorothy Dix column).
||| Hey, Wick, you should know by
| now that those whiskers won’t
| hide lipstick. Next time be careful

The boner of the year goes to the | you may not be so lucky—every
Meds, for deferring their Ball to a body might find out about it.

time when it conflicts with the Boil- Fred Russell is still going strong
ermakers, and the Junior Prom. Do | —to the Hall, we mean. Don’t you
they think their brawl can compete | think you ought to open a book
with the only real party on oo a week, anyway, Fred?
campus—the Boilermakers’ Ball? Well, Mack, do you think now

Ask anyone. re :
And now for:some dirt Bill Hagen there ® more than rocks and fish in
Newfoundland ?

i proves himself to be a modern
Romeo —he has quite a way with
women, Bill can have them in tears

 

    
     
  
     
     
 
    

 

 
 

Ted Canavan had an unfortunate
accident this week. That bottle he

within five minutes, but really, old had in his pocket is no more. Did Friday and Saturday

man, hair-pulling is not quite play- ue break ap or, blow up, Ted? * “KISS THE BOYS

ing the game. Even young Parker| Well, Nov. 15 will see all good GOODBYE” _

ean do that. Engineers of Dal embarking ‘for “REPENT AT LEISURE”
C.Q.— Hank Johnson—who was| Amherst on the annual “educa
 

the Y.L. you were sporting last| tional” trip After arriving at AmSaturday ? herst we expect to visit the CanaF. B. om. 88 (speaking to aj dian Aircraft Plant and the Robb OR P H EU S
“ham”, one must use the official| Engineering plant. After these
language). sight-seeing tours we'll all find Monday, Tuesday, “Wed.
Doug Large is losing, no time in| ways of enjoying ourselyes. Any

‘TARGET for TONIGHT’
PLUS SHORTS

Thurs., Friday,
“GREAT GUNS”
“PRAIRIE LAW”

bets that Mussett won’t hitch-hike
to Sackville ?

Mackie, remember that
You know, the night you

becoming a real Dalhousian—he has
developed the protective spirit in
regard to Patsy. We thought Bruce
Bauld was her white-haired ‘boy.
Is there any truth in the rumour

Say,
night ?

Saturday

came into the Diana Sweets after
“driving” around in a car.
is embarrassing at times,

Lipstick
isn’t it? |

ket for a steady? Why not try

 

    

Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

 

 

Jim Vibert, Ist Year Arts. Dorothy Stairs, Ist Year Arts.
Goodness gracious, by the feel of Ha, Ha, let’s see. I hope not.
the weather, Spring won’t be very 1 e *

far behind this.

% % *

Royce Mallam, 3rd Year Arts.
Well, (interval of time) Well .

  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
    
    
   
  
  
   
 
   
    
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   

Carl Little, Ist Year Engineering.

| If it’s in Halifax, yes. Then it all
Pa if you’d ask me a sensible |
question I’d tell you something.
Oh! Ah! Eh! ... Are you referring | | Doug Johnson, 2 Year Engineering.
to the Cuviadian Winter. Well, Ij» Huh? It’s ah of a long time

don’t know. | to go.
en BM | Abe Schwartz, Ist Year Arts.

Mac Grant, 3rd Year Science. | Yes. Shelley being a poet of
No, we must take into considera- beauty, from which I take it this |
-_tio the progression of the equinoxes. | quotation comes. I await what
_ he theory of the seasons, of course | beauty shall arrive in Dalhousie in
_ depends on the progression, of the | the Spring. (Phew!)
a equinoxes, and . (Hasty retreat Jim Stevens, 2nd Year Arts.
ms on oe of aa reporter.) Ah Spring! Ah Winter! Ah nuts!
Unseen Wonders

| “T don’t see what keeps you co
eds warm at those cold football

games.”
“Brother, you ain’t supposed to!”

rn ae an

Voice over phone: “A burglar has
broken into the Old Maids’ Home.
Will you send a man down at once!”
Station Sarge: “‘Who’s speaking?”
Voice: “The burglar.”

 

—_—

 

Many a girl thinks she shows distinction in her clothes, when the
—Western Gazette.| proper word is distinctly.

pt rr

 

Garrick

A Famous Players Theat

Starting Tomorrow

Episode 3

Sweater as the Days go by

| A bewildered figure could be seen
darting frantically from one female
‘figure to another, marking down on |
la slip of papyrus wierd signs which |
might mean anything at all, then |
| gazing high up into the smoke-filled |

ettes, who were eagerly grabbed up
| by Rob Murky, who shovelled them
mechanically into a recepticle labelled ‘“Crackerjacks”, where they
were gently tapped on the head by
| Ignatz Schmidt, who was draped in|
shrouds of black (and gold) and |
sinning an aria from “Gloryglory”. |

Playing Six Days
“OUT OF THE FOG”
with Ida Lupino and

John Garfield

On the Same Program

 

:

 

‘air and ighing, “Oh, Roy! Oh| It was the great pep rally, and a | “BLONDE FROM
| BOILING ‘ESSENCE! OH Lana’ fine spirit of camaraderie prevailed | SINGAPORE”
Turner! Five points for Henny|as Wubber MacTunnelled and Elk

|Hatch-all. Ten points for Hay} MacLoud vied to reach the highest

Kicks. A hundred points for Sissy | rafters.

Macaroon”, as he tabulated points
for Dalhousie’s sweater contest. The |
eee 208 ae P. great congregation of lobster fish
o ave, ne ee is av you! ermen, C.O.T.C.ers, and A.T.C.ers, |
get a prize for every contest you &°| burst into view, ledl by genial Major |

ee oe eed Sy euaee Hokum. Immediately they burst
e Galling Schmi yemné | into the Soldier’s Chorus, the Major |

“Thousand points for...”
‘ weeping upon the broad shoulders \
Meanwhile the haze of BOILING| ,¢ 7 Windebag. ‘hile the latter

ESSENCE grew thicker and thicker stoned at dd
over the ‘already befuddled Fizzle- , a a SS
que, accordingly he had a vision.

In the midst of all this merriment,
the door sinisterly opened and a

STUDENTS!

 

 

—and save on every

Was this too oon for Wilbur P.?

The Vision of Wilbur P. Fizzleque. Or did he just wake up? More
As the high-pitched voice of J.| next week.

Windebag reached a new crescendo,

a stream of. little bunny rabbits

could be seen gently falling like the

evening dew, being transformed as

they landed into shimmering Fresh
Discount at...

Julius has a blind date. GORDON
He’s all dressed up to please her.
But oh! What disappointnient

When Julius Ceasar.

EATON “THRIFT”
MADE-TOSUITS

21.95

It’s big value when you’ve a choice of scores of imported English and domestic woolens in TWEEDS and WORSTEDS—when
you consider that every “Thrift” Made to Measure is made
right in our own Shops, hand-cut to your individual measure
—and in the style you like—man, that’s
Come in soon and take advantage of this outstanding clothing
offer—and remember. when you order you can get extra trous
Eaton’s—Main Floor

ATONC

 
   
 

 
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
   
       

MEASURE

Extra trousers
4.95 pair

   
   
  
   
     
  

“top-notch” VALUE!

      
   
 

oO

LIMITED

THE

ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Y.M.C.A. Building — B-7530
381 Barrington Street
31 Spring Garden Rd. — B-6440

We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

 

Famous Players Theatre

     
  
      
  
   
 
 
      
   
   
   
       
       
 
       
   
         
  
   
   

Starting Oct. 31 to Nov. 1-3

“DIVE
BOMBER”

with
ERROL FLYNN
FRED McMURRAY

  

  

Nov. 4th, 5th, 6th

"OUR WIFE“

with
MELVYN DOUGLAS
RUTH HUSSEY

CASINO

“International
Lady”

 

 

MAKE GORDON B. ISNOR’S
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR

OVERCOATS
FURNISHINGS

   
    
          
      
      
      
 
   
   
    

with

ILONA MASSEY
BASIL RATHBONE

GENE LOCKHART

MARJORIE GATESON

   

SHOES

purchase by taking

advantage of our Special Students’

B. ISNOR’S

69 Gottingen Street — Halifax, N. S.

 
  
  
    
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
      
    
 

BS NO MATCH

fe es: ee field. The.

a. The Dal fifteen started out where
they had life off the previous week
when they defeated the Acadia Axem nen, and carried the play deep into
, ae Vanderers’ territory from the initial

‘ whistle, The Dal forwards proved
to be the most aggressive group on
, ei ‘the field in the early stages of the
c Md game, with Ian McGregor, “Muck”
~Melvor and Web McDonald following up fast, and taking part in
‘4g many of the line runs. The first
score came four minutes after play
eg began, when the Tiger backfield carhoe the ball thirty yards to the
_ Wanderer line, where McGregor
plunged over for the try, and a
Pires to nothing lead for Dal. Jack
oe Bs MeKenzie’s attempt at convert was
Ir unsuccessful.

Play moved down to the other end

i

i

aah 7
of the field following the centrest field kick-off by the Redmen, but the

Dal drive and push soon carried it

Pp
a.
ly it back to the Wanderers’ line, where

ea the Red team strove valiantly to

Se 3 stem the tide. The Dal scrum click| ed on the five-yard line, however,
: oY and when Jo-Jo Feindel was tackled
a on the goal line and dropped the
_ ball, MelIvor recovered and fell on it
to give the Tigers a 6-0 lead. Again
é _ the convert was missed.

Shortly before the end of the first
half, Jack MeKenzie picked up a
ball dropped by the Wanderer’s
_ Smith when he was tackled hard by
_ Feindel while trying to clear the
K* p pesien to safety. The resultant
9-0 was sufficient to indicate the
_ ‘Tigers superiority over the Wan_derers’ fifteen, but with the whistle
_ begin the second half, the Tigers
_semed to have lost some of the
: _ steam which had characterized their
_ work in. the first half.

H Me: Im spite of a lack of condition,
- the Wanderers took over the play
he nd pressed the Dal team consistry "ently, keeping the Tigers constanta on the defensive. Bus Phillips,
nw ho for the past few years has permed in a D.A.A.C. uniform, split
e Dal posts squarely, on a penalty
i to give the visitors their first
| "score. The Tigers had scarcely got
By back into the game before Smith,
aes of the Redmen snared a ball at
centre field and romped down the
é _ Sidelines, and over to register the
sixth Red points At this stage of
._ ‘the game the general attitude of
the Dal fifteen seemed to be: “Aw,
shucks, somebody else will get him.)
ee Why should I try to stop him 2 |
But nobody seemed to be able to By |
i ih a hand on the elusive Mr. Smith,
and when Phillips clicked on the
_ convert, the scoreboard read Dal—9,
hi _ Wanderers—8, and a lot of people
a _ began to forget the cold, to concen| trate on the ball game.

: However, the Dal backfield warmts ed up their toes sufficiently to lay
a few accurate kicks to the Wani _derers’ “coffin corner”, and following
E a scrum on the Redshen’s five-yard
) pa line, McGregor tallied his second
score to the game by plunging over
ie with the ball tucked securely under
_ his arm, and most of the Wanderers
) hanging on his neck. “Andy” An_ derson had meanwhile been banished
from the game for a show of belligerency,—-one of the few signs of
spirit demonstrated by the Tigers in
the entire second half.

Among former Pal_players performing for the Wanderers Were |

_ Norm McRitchie, Bus Phillips, and
Bert Vail.

 
    
   
 
 
 
   
 
    
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
   

,

2
ea

ete
Tr


re So 4°
ih

a

ee EEE EEE REEER

 

=

 
 

a _ In an intermediate game immedia preceding the senior fixture,
es unhappy Dal Cubs continued

losing streak when they ab
sorbed an 11-5 loss at the hands of a

: from the Royal Navy. A great

. many of the yisitors were experi
d et the English style of play,
heir kicking and ene at- |

was too much for - he Cubs to)

  

   
 

if,
i
}

 
 

 
   

 

:

for MIDDY MIGHT

mr The Dalhousie Tigers won their fourth game in five starts
Ba Saturday when they turned back the Wanderers 12-8 on
‘iger squad was out to take over first
place in the league standing, while the Redmen were determined to notch up their first win of the year, and the contest
= into a rugged struggle before the final whistle blew.

 

CO-EDS ONLY

By M. PARKES

* * ®

With winter attempting to enter
earlier than usual this year, we see
ground-hockey and tennis hastening to their close, and basketball
and badminton getting the benefit.

On Wednesday afternoon the
Edgehill girls came down to visit
us, and incidently to play a game
of ground-hockey. The Dal turnout was really very good, considering classes and such, with a full
team in play. But alas, the younger
generation was just a little too
much for us, and the game ended
with a score of 5—0 for Edgehill.
Ah, well! wait until they get as old
as we, from sitting through lectures!

Last Tuesday it poured rain, or
did you know? but in spite of that
fact several girls turned out to
show that D.G.A.C. night really
does mean something. Basketball
was very successful and all enjoyed
it. We are very glad to see that
the Freshettes don’t let a little
thing like rain stop them, as it did
some of us old seniors. Badminton
followed at 9.15. Next week we
want twice as many at least to
turn out at 7.30 for the whole evening, for, alongside of the radio
saying:

“There’s friendship in a‘ cup”, we
can do even better with: ‘‘There’s
friendship in a game.”

 

This all brings us to the most im
portant topic ~of the week, the
Athletic Clubs. Did you know that
every co-ed belongs? That the

names are posted in the Locker
room, and in the Arts’ Commonroom? That your name is there
either in the Red, Black, or Gold

Club?

These’ clubs are for the purpose
of giving each co-ed an aim in athletics of any kind. There is to be
appointed a captain for each actiyity in each club, and these captains
are to make up teams to compete
with each other on Tuesday evenings and at other specified times,
with Munro Day as a_ probable
“erande finale” for the best.

Each team will try and do its
best throughout the year, and points
will be given for games won in
each separate sport. The club with
the most points at the end of the
college year will win an award.
We hope each club will obtain the

Interest of each of its members and

thus make fairly strong teams in
all sports, so that competition will
be keener. So state your interest.

Aim for the top of the Badminton |
Ladder that is posted on the first.
floor of the Gym, way back in the
corner, Directions are there as w ell |
as downstairs. If your name is not

posted, notify the manager and it | ¥. M.C,
You bet! .

will be.

DAL OFF HOURS

_ Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the
MARITIME BUSINESS
73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who not desire a complete course in any of the
Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

*

Evening Classes in Accounting are held on MONDAY
and THURSDAY, 7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

Enter Any Day

  

 

WHIP WEARY, WAYWORN .

 

 

Tuition counts from date of Registration

— 7 — “
ss) EAN bo ool r Phas: PS ;e a4 y

  

"1941

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE October 31, 1$

       

ARTS AND SCIENCE

 

     

 

 

   

 

 

 
     
           
     
     
 

 

 
       
       
     
 

) SOCIETY MEETS i
they P O R T pi C g With its president, Inez Smith, 4
in charge, that long expected meeting of the Arts and Science met *
by AL. MacLEOD |Tuesday. Conservatism conquered
se Pe aes ene co eee ade NL eT a) | EF the rash idea of dissolution,
'and the meeting broke up with the
ee ak a Cotas” | happy note that at the next meeting BIG TIGER!!!
You've lurked behind your window. shade aaron teh eel chicnatlease! cor vous
And missed the games your own team played. oe ‘ jitbet heb oon ee oe ,
i swine ee a rina golden pees classes vas told it had me vote until|/] The NATIONAL FISH CO.
= Maen Ce ee ee |the next meeting of the society. LIMITED
To the Ladies: How about you co-eds bending the ear | Besides the discord there were nom-|| PRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
beautiful to this plea pitiful? For the last few weeks we’ve inations for the student council post || waprpax — NOVA SCOTIA
been complaining in this column about lack of interest in, and | from the seniors. The meeting ac- ‘ ;
want of enthusiasm for, the Dalhousie rugby machine. And_| cepted those of Alec MacIntosh and
after some consideration we’ve decided to put the whole re-| Andy Dunn. For the society Anne
sponsibility upon the fair sex of the university. Most of you,|Goodeve was elected Secretary- Start Skatin o,
we feel sure, have taken the attitude that since you don’t know | Treasurer, and a Special Events ase 5
much about the game, you wouldn’t get a great deal of satis- | Committee of Royce Mallam, Helen Early this year
faction out of watching one. We disagree, and most heartily. Henshaw, Bob Murphy, Sue Morse Advance shipments of
Those of you who have, as the humble doggerel above sug-| 47d Penny Patchell was set up. To|] @ @ 1 Skatine Outfits
gests, remained at home on these bright Saturday afternoons, | the D.A.A.C. went Jeff Bagnall, || ~~ h: fre . :
lane lost a aiid si" golden opportunities to benefit not only ee es 4 ed ave now arrived at a.
yourselves, but your Alma Mater as well. You have neglected! ,.,. : |
an excellent opportunity to develop some of the “college Spirit” ria. year the Serest proweny PHINNE YS ;
which is fifty per cent of a university education. You have S°°™’ % be lack of ice for prac- a gartdie.\Lactin e enutbaeend
failed to support a group of men who have sacrificed time and ee ee ee Why rag eperye ;
< y not come in and select

   

is a possibility that this will greatly curtail hockey activities. However, representatives of the college
ice circuit are to make inquiries in
| this direction, and a report will be
made at a meeting in the near future. If possible, it is hoped to
have a few of the games before the
Christmas vacation begins.

       

energy to give you reason to be proud of your gold and black
banners. And, solely as a result of your own inertia, you have
failed to get full value for the price you paid for that little
Student Council ticket.

The team has reached the last rung, or at any rate the
second last rung in its climb to the championship. On Saturday the Acadia team will! be in town to make a desperate effort
to take it from us. Won’t you string along with the male portion of the undergraduate body, and lend your heartiest sup-.
port? Everyone would appreciate it. And it would help make
Shirreff Hall look less like the British Museum or the Smithsonian Institute.

To the Team: You chaps have played five hard games to
date, and you are to be complimented. If you win one more,
or two at the most, the championship of the Halifax City
League will be your reward. Perhaps you have noticed, how-|
ever, that you won your best victories, and showed the best |
form on those occasions when every man on the squad tore |
into the fray like the tiger he was named after. When you|
have showed fight and drive, and have contested every foot of |
ground you gave, you were real champions. When you were
content to get by on your reputations, to let somebody else |
take the bumps, your victories were “narrow squeaks”. We|
know, and you know, what you can do. But perhaps Acadia |
and Navy will have to be pounded before they’re convinced. |
We trust you do the pounding. |
To Everybody: On Friday night, at seven-thirty, it is your

bounden duty to repair to the Gym and make with the yells, |
the songs, the bonfire and the little dance. A little pep at this | |
stage, and in years to come we shall have cause to remember |
how the Tigers humbled Acadia, and drove the Navy to their

ships. Will you come? We knew you would. |

7 ee /

   

your outfit now

Ll

    
 
    
   

   

   
 
 
  
 
 

mo e

 
 

456 Barrington Street

   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

 

Dal in Hockey League

The Halifax College Service|

League representatives met on Wednesday of this week to make plans |

Exchange Scholarships
Announced
Names of students who have accepted exchange scholarships from
and to Dalhousie University have | :
ae for the coming season. Alexandei
been announced by the National | J. “Sandy” MacDonald of Third Year
Federation of Canadian University | eat ny a. Rei ote

| Law, last year’s president, was reStudents which provides the scholar- | he ice ke ta ai
elected

to that position, while Terships each year. Two students have | | Se
ry Martin of St. Mary’s was elected

come to Dalhousie under the ex-| : j.
vice-president. Other officers are |

change plan. They are Miss Mar-|
guerite Ritchie of the University of
Alberta, who is enrolled in second |
year law at Dalhousie this year, and
R. L. Brennan of McGill University,
who is in Arts and Science. | Dalhousie, St. Mary’s and
William Kopak of Nelson, B. C.,| with the St. Mary’s team winning
who last year took his law course.| the league championship. |
at Dalhousie is attending the Uni-| vias.

versity of Saskatchewan at Saska- |

toon. The scholarship enable stu- |
dents wishing to take a year of their
course at some university caer
the particular area in which they
are studying to do so at no extra |
expense.

Ralph Vaughan, and Ron |

| Martin of Tech,

secretary,
treasurer.

 

Last year the League was suc- |
cessfully operated with teams from

 

 

 

xy)
oe
LO

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE |

SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS
A. Building Halifax ]|)
Phone B-6881 |

Tye PE

COLLEGE

     
     
 

Each time you taste ice-cold “Coca-Cola,” you are reminded ,
that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience . .
many a refreshing experience .. . has taught people everywhere to trust the quality of “Coca-Cola.”

       
        
   
 

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

 
       

 
