 
   
 
     
    

# RP gathering by distributing a little

"9: LEAD AORSE, PF
ANNOUNCE PLATFORM

At a meeting yesterday noon in the Chem Theatre, the
class of ’45 elected their officers for the coming year. President
of the class will be Fred R. Russell of St. John’s, Newfound‘Jand. The vice-president is Susan Morse, of Paradise, N.S. and
the secretary-treasurer will be Gerald Prat, of Bridgetown. The

meeting was poorly attended and
displayed little or no enthusiasm. IPin e Hill
Meeting Held

  

 

ee The Chair was presided over by Don
~Oland, who could have livened the

eae. i ae eG
? BAL ar a

   

| Freshmen Show.
|

| Frosh Plan
Glee Club Show

Burlesque Rumored

A large turnout of enthusiastic
Freshmen greeted Glee Club Directors last Monday evening as preparations were begun for the Annual
Determined that
the class of ’45 shall put on a bigger
and better show than any previous
class, the Frosh feverishly made
preparations for tHe gala event
| which Don Kirkpatrick, president of
a Glee Club optimistically predicted would take place on Novem
 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 
   
   
  
     
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 

of his famous beer but didn’t. After
the meeting the newly elected executive were queried as to their

future plans and were asked for

 
  
 

- Prat lined himself along with the

+

i

_ their opinions on various subjects,
notably the Arts and Science So
ciety. Said President Russell: “To
my way of thinking the Arts and
Science Society is a racket. Personally, I’m not in it, being an Engineer, but I intend to oppose it to
the best of my ability. We are go_ ing to stick together in our class
even if we have to form our own
society. There doesn’t seem to be
any spirit in this university, and we
want to rouse up some college spirit
in out, sins. You know how the St.
’s team had the cooperation

ire college” Miss Morse,
ed, said: “I agree with
nt. that there is not

college spirit. We want to

Pea a the freshmen and freshettes to
| Us ne at the meetings and get real

rganization for supporting our
eam at the football games.” Mr.
president.

Russell thought that military
training was essential and oddly
enough was all for it (you’ll learn
son!), while Sue Morse added a
touch of femininity to the discussion by interposing the remark that

_ the boys looked so much better in

; uniform.

Open for nomination at Pine Hill
are the important Student Council
posts of Pope, Cardinal, Bishop
Seribe and five Deacons. Down a
the Hill, they had their first meeting of the student body the other
night, when the assembled group
were spoken to, first by Dean of
Residence MacKinnon, and then by
Dr, Kerr.

Dr. Kerr spoke about the “creation of a broadening civilization
after the war.” Then turning the
direction of his speech to the residents, he said that they were “As
fine a bunch of men as anywhere in
Canada. Pine Hill is a centre of
religious life, and is also a source
of spiritual enlightenment, and the
enrichment of life.” He advised the
assembled students as to the rules
of life — Rule Six, “Do not take
yourself too seriously”. There are
serious days ahead, and they could
make use of time to make themselves better members of society,
for the “relief of Man’s estate.” He
pointed out the obligation we have
to the people fighting for us.
“Hope will justify privilege.”

Medical Society
To Stage Ball

The first annual meeting of the
Student Medical Society was held
at the clinic on Wednesday evening.

A comittee was appointed to ar
 

_ range for the annual Med Ball and
the readers of the Gazette are ad
    

| 1938-39.

| and was last year’s selection for the

 

| ber 4. It is planned that the show
| will take the form of a variety proé. gram with farce, frolic and quality

sew: cditor of Gia Cases. To those! _talent. From a secret source the
unfortunates who have yet to make | 'U™0r has been circulated that a
the acquaintance of this man of | _touch of burlesque may be expected.
destiny, it is our privilege to give At least there will bea chorus to
this introduction. Before beginning | display to the campus the new crop
a factual history of John’s achieve- | \feminine pulchritude. And at no
ments it would be well to point out, eXtra cost, just think.
that John is one of that nearly ex: | Sad to relate, however, there is
tinct specie, what we would call a | unusually little talent in the form
genius. |of instrumentalists. All seem de
John was born in the town of | termined that the future holds more
Truro and may very well prove to; promise for crooners than for musbe that hamlet’s one and only claim icians. So bring along your ear
to fame. Just as you and I, he | muffs to the show just in case..
passed through the mill of gram-| Great plans are being made for
mar and high school education and! the Glee Club this year and the exlanded at Dalhousie in 1935, In the | ecutive calls upon ail students who
spring of 1938, after a far|ttom uf | feel that they have any talent at all
uneventful undergraduate ‘existence | to step forward and offer their serJohn, at the ripe old age of 19, | vices in order that this year may
graduated from Dal with a B.A. | prove one of the greatest in the hisdegree and the Eric Dennis The Glee
Scholarship = Political Sei ‘| Club will welcome any Mancoations
This award sent him to Princeton 2 ;

as to improvements in the shows

| University during the college year put on this year and also in regard

In the spring of 1941, ,
i i 7s for the year.
having once again returned to Dal, to the choice of plays for y

John received his degree of M.A.

JOHN WEBSTER GRANT
Introducing John Webster Gran

|

                    

 

    

 

Entries Called For
Any societies intending to enter
a one-act play in competition for
the Connolly Shield should have
entries in aS soon as possible to

Rhodes Scholarship from Nova
Scotia. Last year, he was the assistant editor of the Gazette and will
probably be best remembered by

 
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 

-_—-—_—_ — ~~ Se a

vised to watch for further announcements concerning it. The
Med Ball is always highly enjoyable
and the Med Society extends a
hearty welcome to all students at

ul Ll letir boards regarding the Mayew Prize Essay Contest on Social
Teco on which is to be open
to all Canadian undergarduate stu
in both English and French) this event.
universities. Prizes are to The officers for the present year

1. by R. W. Mayhew M.P.| were then elected as follows:
S provided sums of $200, President—Jack Woodbury.
$50 as first, second and Vice-President—Sid Wright.
izes respectively, one of, Secretary—E. R. ee

“he an i and i a _ Macke:

  

t 0: itary training

‘was again on the carpet and it was
Returday, vs om decided that the Dalhousie students
sell be read by selected would cooperate with those at Mc‘the faculty, who will Gill in an attempt to clarify the

i to merit, situation.

 

 

A Coy.—Lt. Dunsmore, C.O.

B Coy.—2/Lt. Anderson, C.O.

D Coy.—Lt. Jones, C.O.

A Coy.

“A” Syllabus Class
—Candidates for papers.

B Coy.

C Coy.

C Coy.

D Coy.

eve» 1245-1445 hrs.
1630-1830 hrs.
. 1430-1630 hrs.

 

most Dalhousians as the inventor
and engineer of your Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinon (DIPO for
short).

At some time during his lusty
career John had the call and at
present is a student of Theology at
Pine Hill. His mother is the well
known and extremely popular matron of that institution. Among his
other offices, John has time to hold
the post of president of the C.C.F.

Dr. Vinci Gives
First Recital

The first of Dr. Vinci’s series of
Lecture Recitals on “The World’s
Treasure of Song” was given Tuesday evening in the Physics Auditorium and attended by a large and
appreciative audience.

In his explanatory remarks Dr.
Vinci was delightfully at ease,
gaining the interest of his listeners
as he gave a survey of English
amas and composers, and told of
their contribution to the vocal music
of the world during nineteenth century and later periods of history.

From the lighter Old English
Airs, and appealing ballads, to the

martial Elgar “Land of Hope and
Glory”, Dr. Vinci’s splendid baritone
voice and artistic interpretations
gave pleasure to his audience.

Miss Shirley Blois sang beautifully Bishop’s ‘Lo! Hear the Gentle
Lark”, and Miss Elaine Burns’ efficient accompaniments added much
to the success of the evening.

The second of the series—“French
Songs” will be looked forward to by
Halifax music lovers, and will be
presented on October 21st.

 

either Don Kirkpatrick, president
of the Glee Club, or to Barbara
Sieniewicz, vice-president.

Moot Court
Bores Lawyers

Last. Tuesday there came before
Lord Justices W. S. K. Jones, C. L.
R. Gray and Robert Jaffray a case
which was so dry that the Justices
were buying Coco Colas themselves.

The facts, stated as briefly as
possible, were that a rogue representing himself as a wealthy gentleman bought a ring, giving a bad
cheque as payment. Later the
rogue pawned the ring. The suit
was between the pawn broker and
the jewellers.

J. A. Turner, K.C.° was the attorney for the jeweller, while the
pawn broker was ably represented
by F. H. Forbes, K.C.
| Lord Justice Jones and Lord Jus
tice Jaffrey found for the pawn
broker while Lord Justice Gray dissented.

| Of much more interest was the
speech, congratulating the Justices
on their ‘appointment, of Junior
Councillor Cohen. Cohen was asked
by the worthy judges to stop the
apple-polishing and sit down —
Lawyer Cohen sat.

The case of Allan Gardener who,
if “Wee Willie’ Kapak were only
dead, would be his living reincarnated physical, if not mental, spirit,
is reserved until the next meeting
of the court. It appears Gardener
left the court at the very time when
he was needed. WHAT will happen
to Gardener?

 

a pa

| justice will triumph.

 

 

ee

FLASH

Fred Russell, Fr
_ president, says . tha’
. the next meeting 5
_class they will dém

 

  

‘SURPRISE ANNOUNCEMENT
BY THE PRESIDENT ‘ ng
MUST WIN |

In a surprise statement issued yesterday afternoon
dent Stanley gave his permission to home and home games to
be played with Acadia this fall. After over a year of ne eX
controversy, during which time Intercollegiate Sport has been he
banned, Dal once more is allowed to enter the field of Inter= 4
© collegiate competition. On Wednes
|day a notice was sent to the gogt- a
Stanley Predicts | ball team asking it to convens) ee:
Victory ‘the President’s office Tha 4 |

afternoon to discuss the mattetefo ~
the assembled players the president —
stated his position as regards. ithe. :
|.Intercollegiate agreement made an ©
the summer of 1940 and asked. for i
the opinions of the players on. a
matter. It was the consensug of
opinion that as long as such games
did not prove a deterrent ta the ©
war effort, there could be no er
in them. me
After hearing the various play
express themselves, President §
| ley gave his consent to the naa
with Acadia, stipulating only
Dal should defeat the other Uni-- =
| versity. e

   

 

   
 

Victory for those who are fight- |
ing the destroyers of civilization |
was forecast by Dr. Carleton Stan-|
ley in an adress on Tuesday to a
large gathering from both Forrest |
and Studley campuses. In welcom- |
ing the new students, Dr. Stanley |
sought to impress upon them the |
precarious position occupied by the,
institutions of education, and uni- |
versities in particular, whose very
existence have been threatened con- |
tinuously throughout the last ten |
years. But the students were told to
be of good cheer for, although the)
destroyers of today’s civivlizaztion |
as yet remain undefeated, yet the.
signs indicate that soon the forces of

— — ®

Bye-Elections ©
_ Are Postponed - is

worst enemy inasmuch as it ean In. view of the fact that vo me
allow Westminster and the Congress} the 13th, is Thanksgiving Day, the” .
of the United States to be inhabited bye-elections as announced in last
by spendthrifts and the “tools of| week’s Gazette will not take place”
money-grubbers”, Dr. Stanley con-| on that date. Before John Winde=
tinued that it, nevertheless, also’ had, ban’s position on the Council cam, be;
the power to cast up men of destiny | | filled, according to the Constitution,
endowed with the courage and vision there must be an open meeting of
necessary to meet the most critical, the faculty of Arts and Science at

| Which at least two candidates) will
‘be chosen for the position. The ~
candidates must be from the Senior “it
'Class and men, as required by.”

, Article 6, Section 6, of the Constis?

| tution, but they are to represent

Declaring that Freedom is its own

 

situation.

With all the bountiful things on
earth given to Man, God has denied
him only one thing; time. It is neces-.
sary, therefore, the president cau
    

       
 
   
     
     
   
       
   

tioned for the incoming students to
make every minute of their university life count. They should bite |
deeply and chew on learning rather

 

 

faculty of Arts and Science om the

Council of Students. When: the
candidates are selected, votes will
be taken by ballot to determine Mr, —

He voiced a belief that Canadian |
than merely nibble and taste of it.
youth wants to sink its teeth into
realities.

President Stanley concluded his
address by extending a warning to
the new students not to neglect their
health. Resilience of mind and body

Windebank’s successor. A week's
notice of the meeting shall be given.
In like fashion, the post- Grads»
will hold an open meeting and select
one of their number to be the pest

graduate representative on —4
Council, at a date to be announeed

  
  
   
   
 

 

 

depends on mental exercise and re- | Cc ~ CAN; AD A YEAR BOOK. ae
straint from physical excesses. A limited number of paperbound copies of the 1941 Canada
NOTICE Year Book are available to uni e,
eee students at the reduced;
Monday, October 13th, Thanks- | peice of fifty cents. Applicatio A
giving Day, no classes will be held| |are to be addressed to Phe)
at the University. raabene of Statistics, Ottaway; he
bo ~ &
* DIPO +85

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion.
Should the United States Repeal Its Neutrality Act 72

In answering this question Dalhousie students stood quite definitely
in favor of the repeal of the Neutrality Act, which was not entirely unexpected, as most of those quizzed were Canadian citizens. 77% voted
in favor of the Act’s repeal, but of the 23% who voted No, all were quite

vehement in their opinion.
ae a ae

Should a N. S. General Election Be Held During War Ti’
The results obtained on the above question were quite clos, wii
50% supporting an election and 49% saying that it should not e held.

The remaining 1% voted for a wartime coalition Government/
+e eS

What Is Your Opinion of the Arts and Science Society?

In the main, the comments in answer to the above question consisted
of such complimentary remarks as “Terrible”. “It stinks”, and “should
be abolished”. Several students, however, remarked that it could be
made into a good society, while one novel individual vouched the opinior
that it was the best society on the campus.
   
 
  

 

RM wits Msi cate
Es 
 

ain ae Lge, iis ST
ek Pies age
si |

ray an d , ‘ ae” =
Cayenne Pe iika We

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

DALHOUSIE WELCOMES
WEST INDIAN STUDENTS

The envy of all true male frosh is to be found in three
British West Indians, all taking first year pre-professional

+} eourses at Dal. These are Eric Storey, Barbadoes; Ruskin
| Ramoutar, Trindad, and Randolph Lindo, Jamaica. To account

October 10, 1941

mise

"ese tha ‘they fesresent the opinion of

 
  
  
 
    
    
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

: Cow Limited, 5A Argyle St., Halifax

a ~— SSS ee

B-8576
S-2936
B-8576
S-2597
B-9746
B-5043
L-5592
B-0453

he OR ge aS oe

 

— — — ~~ ——""S ~—>

//
//

~~ ——

oe WHOM IT MAY CONCERN

i : eed of much interest to male students at Dalhousie
present time is the military training program being
out at the university this year. Many students are in
; to the real meaning of a number of the regulations,
ticularly the one concerning the training and attestation of
ier ts in age-groups not likely to be called out in the near
are, especially those who are under the age of twenty-one
S, and | are therefore not liable for militia duty.

 

In an endeavour to gain some information on the subject,
interviewed the President. He informed us that the traini of all students over the age of 18 had been requested by
: Dominion Government. The University of Toronto de1ed to comply with the request, but other universities have
ertaken to train all students of eighteen years and over. It
s pointed out that university students between the ages of
and 24 have privileges not enjoyed by others of the same
s-groups, in that they are required to train but the equivat of thirty days, while others are called up for four months
\ oe “the duration”, and that students of other ages could
‘well afford to make some sacrifices in return for this conPek a +h

|. The crux of the whole affair is, however, the matter of
| attestation. Students, some of them in age groups which the
Government will not call up for years, were informed at the
ve gps of the year that they must be attested for three
ars’ service in the militia. Some of them were quite dis
ped. The President explained that this is necessary because
the authorities must be assured of a reasonable continuity in
| the A.T.C. if they are to give progressive training, rather
than go through the same motions each year. On being asked
what oath is required on attestation, the President said that
he had never read the form of the oath, but that he imagined
eat. ; would be for three years’ training in the A.T.C. In any
 yoease. he. , it was #ertain that students would not be
3 Be to serve after their graduation or after leaving the

YY

_ A perusal of the form of the attestation is, however, not
res assuring. It is headed, “Attestation: Non-Permanent Active
litia of Canada”, with no suggestion whatever that liability
r service is confined to the length of the stay at the univerty or limited to training in a university corps. The relevant
rts of the declaration read thus:

“T the OP UETIOG os wow. vac wie , do sincerely

and solomnly SWORE THAL.. . ous os = xe I am willing to be
fe at ested for the term of three years or until legally disee ee and do understand the nature and terms of this
engagement.”

~ It is not for a moment suggested that the President or the
witicers of the C.O.T.C. have any intention of refusing any
tudent a discharge from his unit: upon leaving the university.
 — Sut it must be remembered that once the attestation has been
s on made the final power is not in the hands of the President, and
| el necessarily in those of the present officers of the Dalhousie
©.0.T.C., but rests with the heads of the Non-Permanent
‘Active Militia of Canada. It must also be remembered that
= this is a time of war, and that many changes of personnel and
. Policy can take place within three years. Many students do not

. .¢*’ expect to remain at the university for three years and quite
ae turally do not wish to obligate themselves for that period.

_ The President gave assurance that there was no need to
_ Worry over the matter, as none of the eventualities suggested
above would take place. It cannot be considered a merely
ademic matter, however, for a number of students have very
inite misgivings with regard to the manner in which they
| e being compelled to take an oath whose meaning is so unfain and which appears to place them under an obligation
oe militia for three years. These students have, incidenty, no. objection to the training itself. The university would
; the greatest loser if some of them were forced to leave
ough their objection to this ‘very indefinite oath. The
otives of these students in desiring freedom of action must,
reover, not be assumed to be unpatriotic.

Some clarification of the matter is necessary. The time
rit, actually, was before the beginning of the term. At the
__. time of registration, no announcement had been made which
eee Suggested that such an agreement would be required. Even
_ now, students must take an oath to the effect that they “un_ derstand the nature of the terms of this engagement’? when
i _ they have not been told what is involved and when the President himself does not appear to know. The great majority of
tudents will, of course, have no objection to making the attes‘tion. But it i is not fair that those, who for one reason or anmay not wish to bind themselves to one branch of the
for three years, should be penalized by being forced to
raw from. the university, possibly to forfeit the fees
ey cee ee

ening ro ‘iii rs that ay an attestation would
they have now a right to be told, at the very least,
a in ns so that they may govern themselves

 

for the freshmen ‘jealousy are the mustaches that the two

youngest sport.

Storey, at 19, and Ramoutar, at
18, both have @ luxurious foliage
sprouting on the upper lip. Lindo,
oldest of the trio at 24, has no
growth, but that doesn’t mean he is
incapable of it. Eric and Ruskin
had theirs at the tender age of sixteen, at a time of life when your
Canadian lad can only look at his
upper-lip with despairing hope, and
fruitless search.

These three are brought to our
University by the war, which has
rendered attendance at British Universities impossible. Their training |
in their schools was to enable them
to take their professional courses
in the Isles, but they were forced
to look about for a suitable substitute, and chose Dal. on the recommendation of three clergymen.

Eric Storey took his secondary
education at Combermere, and his
higher schooling at Harrison College. He is taking pre-dentistry,
and heard about this university
from Dean William Richards, a |
clergyman from Barbadoes, who
spends much of his time in Canada. |
“T like Dal very much; the profs |
speak well and are easy to under- |
stand. At Harrison we ehad mostly |

| English masters.
| nearly corrupted this to mean that

most of the Dal professors speak
good English.)

Ruskin Ramoutar attended Naparima College, and Queen’s Royal
College in San Fernando. He is
taking pre-medicine here. Dal was
recommended to him by Dr. Scrymgeour, the principal of the latter
college he attended, who is a former
Dal student.

Asked to describe his island in
brief, Ruskin eulogized: “Trinidad
is very up-to-date. Their capital,
Port-of-Spain, is larger than Halifax. It is the best city on the C.N.
steampship call, (this can be vouched for by the sailors that call there
—we dare not print what they think
about Halifax.)
second largest amount of oil in the
Empire, and the largest amount of
pitch. We have trolley buses which
run from overhead lines, but have |
no track. Trinidad is the place |
where East meets West; there |
French, English, Spanish and Hin-|
dustani are spoken.” |

Lindo is here because there is no |
University in Jamaica, and because |
he couldn’t go to England. Dr. |
Cook, another Dal grad, crane
ed this university to him. “Jamaica
produces one of the best grades of
coffee in the world, with its Blue
Mountain Coffee, the toast of the
West Indies.” The only comment
from the others on _ that
Storey’s remark that Barbadoes |
Rum was the toast of the Indies. |

“Jamaica lies in a _ centralized
position in the Indies” continued
Randolph, after order was restored.
“It is the largest in the British
group, and is quite close to the
Panama Canal. The Americans are
building bases there which have to
a large extent, ceneed the labour
problems.”

The subject of rum is intriguing,
so we continued with a query about
it. The idea that they might drink
something else never entered our
head, for we had the thought that
they were weaned on it. All three
islands produce good rum. Both the
Jamaica and Barbadoes rum is advertised to be the best in the world.
Trinidad was more modest in its
claims. It costs about a shilling to
produce several gallons, but this is
negigible compared to the government tax. In pubs you can get a
cocktail glass filled with rum for
three cents. There are rum bars
open from morning to night.

All islands are doing their bit for
the war effort. Trinidad has lots of
volunteers for the naval reserves,
the infantry, and gives preliminary
training to pilots of the Air Force.
There are three American bases
there with a fourth being planned.
Mr. Storey came up to Canada accompanied on the voyage by a Barbadoes Volunteer Force, consisting
of 28 men, who came to train in
Canada. Jamaica has a number of
chaps training here, as well as hundreds of them in Britain.

X

We produce the;

was |

In giving the Gazette general
news, one pointed out that Barbadoes was the only colony in the
Indies that had remained British
since it was discovered. Then came
the scornful interjection that it was
a penal colony, but since so many
colonies did start out like that it
really didn’t matter.

The cold is causing them some
discomfort. They have never seen
snow. All but Ruskin are prepared
for the rigours ahead with heavy,
long underwear, which, however, is
not in evidence as yet. Mr. Storey
has three pairs, while Mr. Lindo is
equipped with six. Mr. Ramoutar
is staving off the inevitable moment.

We left them with: “How do you
like military training? They dodged it rather neatly with the return:
“What everybody else thinks about
it.” Then they added: “But we’re
quite willing to do it anyhow.” On

pressing them again, they admitted |
that Major Hogan is a real nice}

fellow.

CASINO

Starting SATURDAY
October 11th
©

A Screenful of Fun!

“OLD BILL AND SON”

 

HA Famous GITiCh

Tomorrow — Monday — Tuesday

“MAN AT LARGE”
and “LAW OF THE TROOPS”
Wednes, - Thurs. — Friday
An All-Fun Show!
pRaex FOR PRESIDENT”

an
“RUGGLES OF RED GAP”

   

Fam Players Sheatre

Friday — Saturday — Monday

HOLD THAT
GHOST

ABBOTT
AND

COSTELLO
&

Tuesday — Wednes, — Thurs.

UNDERGROUND

 

ORPHEUS

Friday and Saturday
“LADY SCARFACE”
“ALONG the RIO GRANDE”

Monday — Tues. — Wednes.
“WHISTLING in the DARK”
“WE GO FAST”

OXFORD

Friday and Saturday
‘ALOMA of the South SEAS’
“CRACKED NUTS”

Monday and Tuesday
‘The DEVIL & MISS JONES’
“THE BLACK CAT”

Wednesday and Thursday

“SONNY” —- Anna Neagle
“HIGHWAY REST”

 

 

yal 7

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!
®@

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 

Maritime Academy of Music Ltd.

Superior private or class instruction in Practical and
Theoretical Music from the lowest grades to Bachelor
of Music Degree from Dalhousie University.

Dramatics: Speech Correction and Platform Art.

Head Office: 98 HENRY ST. —
Five Branches in
DARTMOUTH 
Tel. B6632

HALIFAX” - BEDFORD

 

A Word of BLAKELEY’ S

Welcome
Birks extends to new- O
comers and returning ||
students a cordial wel- WELCOME
come to bring their TO
gift problems to Birks.
Come and visit —even
if you have no problem. DALHOUSIE

Henry Birks & Sons TJ
LIMITED
Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society
Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

43 Spring Garden Road

 

Dalhousie Gniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia
Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.

~ Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Chaz area Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

fai f “Arts atid Science Faculty
Dejrees: B.A., B.Sc.,
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
M.A,, M.Sc.
Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration,

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Se. course, about $190 a year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

B. Com., B. Mus., Phm. B. eipwer

A
   
   

 

 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
  
  
    
 
 
  
  
     
    
  
  
   
  
 
  

v0 10 ) CULTIVATE YOUR PROFESSORS

ble ir 1 the pursuit of a Liberal College Education is

y ingratia Art of Getting Along With Your Protruly a Difficult Accomplishment, only acquired

: c on realize its Significance until Too

_ some I ethod of Approach and
«Le 1 een expose the correct

flethod of Anproath is
al , and will produce Im8. + It’ Ce ast be ae in three ways. Of
, is Interception. AS your Professor is about to
pees: step up boldly, eh point out to him that it is a
_ For this information you will be thanked. Then
mention some obscurity in the lecture. This can
invented Audaciously. It will serve to convince him
at you were there, and he will be only too glad to enlighten
. This will aid you in skipping the next Lecture...
. second step, under the Direct Method, is Interruption.
ul in the lecture, clear your throat loudly. If this
— does "t serve to indicate your presence, ask him to repeat part
oe yf the lecture. In an extemporaneous lecture, the resultant
_ confusion will be to your advantage. Follow this up with some
question. This will eliminate any further bother in taking
notes, and will make you popular with both student and Professor alike. You are creating a Profound Impression.
| It is well to obsesrve that the Direct Method produces a
Postive Reaction, and can be used constantly. The third step
is Infusion. This is possible in only limited cases. It you are
adept at Badminton, or in the Thespian Arts you will have
unlimited opportunities for thrusting yourself into the consciousness of the Professors. This, however is for the more
unimaginative, and is not so highly successful as the first two
methods. It involves more effort, for the result achieved.
(Note: Students are advised that the Common School Apple
Technique is now Obsolete.)
For those who prefer a more Subtle Approach, The Indirect
Method is Unhesitatingly Recommended. This Method can be
A applied in two ‘ways, both equally successful. Of these, the
first is Inhibition, and is especially. recommended for Shy
Students. If you have failed to make the acquaintance of any
Professor by the Christmas Exams, you will be advised to
Pluck a few of these. This will give you an Excellent Excuse
for meeting the Professors of the classes you have failed. You
will gain their Sympathy. This will be the Thin Edge of the
Wedge, and it remains for you to pursue your advantage.
| The second Indirect Method is termed Altercation. This
is Reckless, but is recommended in desperate cases. To apply
this method it is necessary to continually pluck Quizzes, Fail
to pass in Themes, and never attend Lectures or Lab. periods.
In this way, you will eventually be invited to meet a Large
( 1 Geet of your Professors, who are eagerly waiting to make
your Acquaintance. The advantage this method possesses over
/ the others is that you receive a more flattering interest in your
_ Activities than otherwise. It is a bold Stroke, highly recommended for budding Clergy.
Besides the Professors, it is Highly Beneficial to cultivate
the various Laboratory Instructors. The easiest way of impressing these is to Ask Questions. Eager to display their
knowledge, they will apply much time to your interests. All
students are advised to posses themselves of a prolific quantity
of Inane Questions about anything . . ..(Note: The flattering
use of the title “Dr.’’ is often beneficial).
The Student who constantly practices these suggestions
_ will have no difficulty in Getting Along. In time other methods
will come to him. He will learn to judge the extent of the
Professor’s Hearing as he walks behind him, telling his friends
how hard he is working in the Professors class . . . These, and
many other wiles, will develop in time. More power to you.

 
   
 

 

University Book Store.
Presents Financial Report

The Book Store was started in the fall of 1930 due to the efforts of
Murray Rankin, Professor James MacDonald and Dr. R. A. MacKay.
_ Prior to the incorporation of the store on this campus the students had
oa to buy their texts as best they could from the book sellers and stationers
> in town. Due to the remoteness of the campus from the two business
centers this did not prove very satisfactory.
, Through the efforts of the above-mentioned committee the publishers
& were prevailed upon to extend the necessary credit terms and the store
: was opened in the old Gymnasium Building. After the fire which destroyed the building in 1931 the quarters were moved to the men’s common peony: in aires tgiaced the Store functioned ‘ill the erection of the new

gymnasium was complete C fel
gee ‘t ‘ tu and was formed with the primary
m as cheaply as possible.

added to the surplus to
or ae sine any loss which
| rofit: been fined back to the students
‘orn Porants tor. atident services and in providing periodicals
Ec r the men’s common room, Shirreff Hall, and the women’s common

» mie Whe store saves the students time as they do not have to leave the
campus to obtain their texts. This is particularly beneficial to the freshmen students many of whom are not familiar with the city. Also for the
| me of the freshmen students there is one thing in particular

4 ble to get your order in as soon as possible, still be sure that you
lly y want the ange before you place your order with any of the store

2 -ate a previous statement, the primary purpose of the store
et as ‘great a saving as possible on text books. You will note
ysis s of the . and loss statement published below that

95% for every dollar's worth of books sold.

%

 

_DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

     

ANI ey FAIR

‘Stalk? of the thing with ‘No back,
and hardly any front’ dress showed

TheMarch of Grime: its obvious advantages. We, however, are getting a little tired of
Kiniey. S0-0-0

Another year rolls around, and we Rh eee

present our old friend, the Little

Pig in a new guise. We should like

to have this opportunity to welcome

back all our old friends, even Kissy,

and to cheerfully observe many |

aspirants amongst the new crop.

Boy, this red White dame sure

makes us blue.
a6 * *

 

/made the acquaintance of Professor
(Or Reverend) Payne to arrange
their ‘calesthenics’ class. . If they
have not done so, they should see

him at once.
a * *

 

There will be many who will welcome the tidings that Kay is back
in circulation again. Tenders will
be received between the hours of
7 p.m. up. The lowest or any, etc.

It appears that one a
not necessarily accepted.

wasn’t enough for the Campus, and
now we have Kissy minimus, who
has already lost seven perfectly
good placards, due to the huge demand for autographs. The “I’ll get
in your Hair” spirit seems to run
in the family.

* * #

Sa aa oe

Bobby Ingram’s misfortune at the
Football game must have caused
considerable ‘Social Embarrassment’

The family compact has extended to say the least. Nasty, smelly stuff,
even to the Morse family. With | that Hair-tonic (?), especially when
two already on the Campus, we are | | you get a kick in the pants.
presented with a third. It’s to be) om ea
hoped there will be enough Rear-| And will someone tell the Freshdons to go around, | ettes, especially those ‘men-killers’,

8 to stop chewing gum on the dance

Remember the “Itch”. It appears | floor, or at least to be a little less

that competition has arisen over | determined about it. Frosh are also

 

 

who shall succeed him in the covet-| advised that it is unhealthy to
ed position of general nuisance. It’s| breathe so continuously through
a close thing between Boite and|the mouth.” And haye you seen
Wisener, for who has failed to trip | ‘Measles’?

over one or both anytime in the ora
Gym. Store. Why was Blois so embarrassed

Pate while seeking his seat at the foot
Ex-Sergeant Major Kinley causes| ball game. Norrie didn’t seem to
us to pause and reflect on the| mind in the least. The tie that
merits of O.T.C. Training. His} binds.

/

The reason for this drop in net profit ratio in the past two years is that
the store has assumed part of the extra cost of American publications
due to exchange and war excise tax, in order to keep the cost of these
texts down as reasonably as possible. The exchange is now 11%, and
there is the additional 10% for war excise tax which is payable on the
cost in Canadian dollars, meaning that the actual increase is a little
better that 11% of the cost price. Added to these two items there is an
all around increase in the cost of publications since the outbreak of war
two years ago, Hence though the selling price of some of the texts may
seem somewhat exhorbitant to the students, it is not due to the lack of
effort on the part of the store management to keep the prices at a
minimum.

In recent years the addition of two students elected annually has
been made to the Board of Trustees, thus providiug effective student
representation in the mariigement of the store. This year the trustees
are Murray Rankin, Professor Maxwell, Professor Bates and two students
as yet to be appointed.

TRADING ACCOUNT — NEW BOOKS

PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT

 

RE NS FON Ta ie eds rele 9, bi tno 8 as eae ela «aide dec $3,686.04
ESOUEL TRUE og pbk tas «'s J Bache Eas Rakes ——— $8,686.04
Stock on hand, April 30, 1941............. $ 454.40
ORCC EROM ils te 86k Pas e Swe ote ws Mee os © 6 3,235.31
ROI NES Sy ite CBee do Wiaey eigiaie § nahn» « Yea le 92.68
ra ne Ee ee eats s ila eal 153.29 3,985.68
Deduct stock on hand, April 30, 1941.......... 883.19 3,102.49
isrous: Prot New Booker sse.. dois .ed ia acevo es 583.55
TRADING ACCOUNT SECOND HAND BOOKS
PME re Sharer a elsin a ojo & edrgivih a + ovis els gedire ans 175.00
Less Cost of Sales Second Hand Books......... 157.31
Gross Profit Second Hand Books.............. 17.69
CONS UPA OP PORt oad» Mie awies Heian esine 601.24
Deduct Expenses:
BORMAMEA Bi eS eae a's ee aaG Ob Bis OOS Oo eRe tae 175.00
REECE ay Vie big re wale © 6) Ss CN 19.50
Telephone and Telegraph .... cise. wcsecseeers 21.00
Stationery, Printing and Postage ............. 39.99
Riera. TOMDONGG: os a «cee a Qe din 9c Oe bw os we 6.74
PAE V OU CAMIENID Lab cteiy''e io), 6 cbs .8. 6 hs sh oS Walghea te ven 10.00
BSICMORE OSG) Tienes oe 5 dies ove Laivie ne vee 141.62
Depreciation — Equipment ................05. 23.16
EMVENUOEY |. fc. cass Nene scion 90.71
Amrotization Bond Premium ................. 5.63 5338.35
TUG ET TOEG ONE PORGR ssa item a wi edn alylls aie re Betis 67.89
ASSETS
Current:
RTA MNES WUBIN A a alin 2m: Gan seta web an as 52.42
Bank of Nova Scotia: Current .............8. 36.94
POUENMENERS Ss. baie! ate Signe hates arg 87.05
Stock in trade as per Inventory........ 833.19
Less: Reserve for Depreciation ........ 83.22 749.87
Accrued Interest Receivable .................. 9.17 935.45
Investments:
Ce EON Oe DONG adi i yo ova bigdas oh ee 500.00
Bromunion of Canada Bond ..... 5. .cceses cess 400.00
NE HORI SG: js fa ed ce oes snl vas Ras wae 61.85 961.85
Fixed:
RINNE Os. orl SG otaathg one) ib dese Hasek Seeie ds Rae 231.60
ss: Reservation for Depreciation .......... 116.47 115.18
2,012.48
LIABILITIES
Current:
Accounts Payable—Second Hand Books................. 108.81
SERN RMN eas PA lala UGG COGN ae re MSc Wi ue CHR Ook BIE ahs WIE 0k ewe a 1,903.62
2,012.43
2,012.43
Comparative Analysis of Profit and Loss
1938-39 Jo 1989-40 Jo 1940-41 %o
SOUR cer ies daceels $4,779.01 100 8,921.32 100 8,861.04 100
Cost of Sales .... 4,161.82 87.1 3,299.10 84.1 8,259.80 84.1
Gross Profit ..... 617.60 ~° 12.9 622.22 15.9 601.24 15.6
Expenses ........ 831.40 6.9 478.50 12.2 494.30 12.8
Net PROne .56.0. 286.29 6.0 143.72 3.7 106.90 2.8

| By now most of the Frosh have

J ANUS coveted no nymph’s embraces:
He could smoke Picobac in both his faces!

@ The God of Commencements could contemplate both past and future with equanimity.
And why not? Picobac is such a mild, cool,
sweet smoke, so. low in price, so completel
satisfying that everyone who has discovered it
looks both backward and forward to endless
delightful hours in its fragrant company,

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH =
4-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN’ 
15¢
65¢

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

“THE EXCLUSIVE LEATHER HOUSE”
Established 1876 Telephone B-6962

KELLYS LTD.

116-118 GRANVILLE STREET
LEATHER GOODS
FACTORY OPERATED BY SKILLED WORKMEN
“Tf It’s LEATHER, We Have It or Can Make It’’

Complete your wardrobe with a beautiful
evening wrap. See our
wide assortment in
sizes 12 to 20.

$25 to $40

Eastern Canada’s
Largest Furriers

52 SACKVILLE STREET HALIFAX

THE ORIGIN OF STUDLEY

Studley was the name given to the estate of Sir «

Alexander Croak, called after his estate in Surrey,

England. Sir Alexander was judge in the Vice-Ads

miralty Court during the war of 1812.

 

a i ee oF

Today, Studley has been given added significance,

for it is the name of the newest telephone exchange in

Halifax, serving subscribers and telephone users in the }

Studley area.
Many of our users are students.

students, it is apparent that the weekend chat is replacing the Sunday letter.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone Co., Ltd.

BASIL WINTERS LIMITED

383 BARRINGTON STREET

Now Showing FALL and WINTER MEN’S SUITS
FURNISHINGS, Ete.

Judging by the |
number of weekend calls placed by and received by —

 

 

 
on eae

  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

ony a the highly-touted St.

yv’s ed under his arm and nearly scored.

The Dal scrum then began heeling
the ball, getting it out before their
opponents could bring their superior
;| poundage to bear. But time and
time again the ball became caught
in the back of the scrum nullifying
the efforts of the front liners and
throwing the backfield out of posion

St. Mary’s again drove down the
field sparked by Vaughan, but the
Tigers came back with ‘the threequarter line working smoothly,
‘when they got the ball. Feindel,
playing a stellar game, came close
to scoring several times before having ehis efforts rewarded on receiving the ball after a backfield play.
Shortly after a dribbling attack put
Dal on St. Mary’s line and from a
subsequent scrimmage Leighton
plunged over for the try. Both attempts at converting failed.

From then on the game was all
Dal’s as it drove down the gridiron
again and again. Late in the game
St. Mary’s lost their star Vaughan.
He was thrown to the cinders and
suffered a slight concussion. This
took the spark out of St. Mary’s
attack and they were holding on
precariously as Dal sensed victory
and drove for more scores.

DALHOUSIE ACTIVE
IN TENNIS

Under the leadership of Professor
C. H. Mercer, Dalhousie tennis
players have taken part in several
successful tournaments during the
past three weeks. The first of these
was played at the Waegwoltic Club
which was host to our Dal team.
Some execllent matches were played
and the result was a tie, both teams
winning 14 matches. Most of the
|matehes were limited to one set
| only, so that a greater number of
| matches could be played. Dalhousie
was well represented in the men’s
doubles but was “not very strong
in the mixed doubles. No singles
matches were played.

The next match was played at the
South End Tennis Club. This proved
to be very keenly contested. The
South End proved to be strong in
all events. E. Woodworth and D.
Saunderson, two of the province’s
ranking players provided stiff competition for our players. Dalhousie
was particularly weak in the women’s doubles but held its own in
the men’s and the mixed doubles.
The South End team finally emerged
as the victors, winning 15-10.

Dalhousie took part in two more
matches with the Waeg, winning
these by scores of 16-6,, and 19-9.
Both of these were played on the
Waeg courts and were highly successful. Thus out of a total of 103
matches played, Dalhousie won 59
(which is not bad).

} aay 6 the Dal line,
od use of the wind and

ad it Kame a Bobbie atit carried them out of
bi Rex Joudrey appeared
where with the ball tuck
_ Freshet' 28, are ats showing

1e nterest fa the game.

n our first night we played a
We which gave us eee

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
  
 
 

  

uld be more active than
a “ean we do about the

  

 
  
 

 
 

; em Let’s make this last
r end finish tennis with a bang!

  
   
  
  
   
  
  

a Re

fetes soon to add a new sport
yur r. It is archery. Have
: ‘ever tried it? Have you ever
ted to? What girl hasn’t?
ay we are hoping to see it go
the Student Council and
n be set up so we can begin
it after the Christmas holidays.
about it! Talk about it!
is. it! Be ready for any
th + developments about it! If
new, as must be some good.

  

  

  

a
Ul
a
fhe

  
 
 

 
  
  

  
 
 
  

us eee gare
he NATIONAL FISH CO.
% LIMITED

ee FISH SPECIALISTS
ALIF NOVA SCOTIA
Supplies.

DONOVAN’S
_ BEVERAGES
_ at DAL CANTEEN

ROY’S

ec St. Halifax, N. S.

  
   
       

d the present season | ‘

| SPORT Spasms

DALHOUSIE SUPPLIES—

Crested Ring, Lab. and Exercise Books, College
Crests and Blazers, Stationery and all Class Room

Refreshments and Light Lunches at reasonable rates.

   

Underneath the Gym

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

 

by AL. MacLEOD

   

“You have put your head inside a wolfe’s
mouth and taken it out again in safety.
That ought to be reward enough for you.”

Who knows but that the ghost of Ancient Aesop hung
over fifteen tired athletes last Saturday afternoon, as they
showered and shaved preparatory to tripping the light fantastic toe? It might well have been. For fine as was the Dalhousie victory over St. Mary’s, they nevertheless came breathlessly close to losing the contest. Indeed, to the great number
of Dalhousie fans who sat silent and immobile in the stands, it
seemed that from the very opening kick the gold and black
were fighting against the humiliation of a defeat at the hands
of what they considered a good high school team.

But Mother Nature and Dame Fortune had conspired to
give the day to the Dalhousians, and the consequence was that
the host of Santamarians were doomed to pigskin destruction.
Even the vast expenditure of human voice which echoed and
re-echoed from the far side of the field was insufficient to turn
the tide of chance in favor of the junior school. Although St.
Mary’s dominated the play in the first half, and held Burnie
Ralston’s boys even for half the second period, all their fine
efforts were in vain. The gold and black held their line unscarred, and worked two really beautiful running plays to
provide themselves a winning margin.

Many will say that we are shrinking from our sacred duty
of filling the “Gazette” with praise for the victorious. In retrospect the performance doesn’t seem as unhappy or as neartragic as it did at the time. But if Dal fans were short on the
cheering end as they watched the struggle, many were the
groans of despair at passes fumbled and kicks muffed. Had
the team been really on, so to speak, they should have won the
game by fifteen points.

But perhaps it will be well to bear in mind that this was
the first game of the season that many of the boys are not yet
in tip-top shape that, with one or two more games under their
belt, there will be an improvement marvellous to behold. It is
probable that there will be such an improvement. And it is
possible for Dalhousie to win the City League without any
such improvement: for the Navy apparently are weak (witness
the 27—9 defeat hung on them by Acadia; Wanderers cannot

D.G.A.C. Airs Plans

 

Faders Drug Stores

With the meeting held on Thurs
day noon of this week, we noted
that great energy and enthusiasm
have been executed to revise and
improve D.G.A.C. constitution. The
executive has been working on a
system which they call the “Activities Club, and it was exactly on
this sabiect they~confronted us, The
idea is not to’ draw up a new constitution, but to revise the old one
in order to include the proposed Activities Clubs.

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

 

Nova Scotia

 
    
   

 

     
 

These clubs are to be three in
number called the “Blacks,” “Golds”
and the “Reds”, with a representative from each to sit in Executive
Council meetings of the D.G.A.C.
This representative is also the
President of her club and will have,
more or less, the good will of the
club as a whole in her interest.

D.G.A.C. night this year is on
Tuesday at 7.30, and with interest
in the Activities Clubs, it is hoped
that a good year will follow in
Girls Sports.

Of no little importance were two
elections, held at the meeting. Chris
Arkley and Frances Webster were
elected as basketball manager and
ground hockey manager _ respectively.

    
     
       
   

      
      
     
   
 

 
  
   
   
   
  

  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 

   
    

   
   
 
       
   
 
   
 

  

  

      

@ Officers’ uniform

must conform to regula
tions as to style, but you
may be your own judge in
the matter of tailoring. Tip
Top uniforms, tailored-tomeasure for all three
branches of the service,
hold top rank position because they are correctly and

 

iy al ry pS ee are . = = ra Paes. Freee rae
Ps tees gga apo ee Tae hire Pes * - mn x e
ie ute | ees iS a sgl a Om &
, ¥ ye x ty re Ag! a a P a> rae ie Ps ih * £ ;
a ¥. ne a * aoe ‘ Se ne <a 16 aed a = At "
As Ae ee ss Se ae ye es :
Bae: teers: en ne foe

‘ October 10, 1941
be rated too highly (they’ve not been organized the past few
years), and we don’t play Acadia. But the fact remains that
our team is capable of playing a much better brand of ball than
they displayed last Saturday. Perhaps they’ll settle down this
coming week-end.

Until then I'll string along with eee ee ee

Ti ifoutity 3 |

5 eteeel|:

   

 

Where Overwhelmingly
First Choice Is The
Parker Vacumatic Pen

@ Get top marks this term with a
Parker Pen and Pencil set . . . the
writing set that students all over the
world have ranked ahead of all
others.

 
   

The Parker Vacumatic Pen has
everything . . . streamlined Television
barrel that shows the ink level at all
times... one-hand filler . .
and the 14-Kt Gold Nib,
Osmiridium tipped to
make the easiest and
smoothest writing instrument in the world.

Parker Pencils to match.

   
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
    

See these beautiful
Parker Vacumatic Pens
and Pencils at any
good pen counter.
Pens are priced from $5 to $13.75; Pencils to match
from $3.50 to $6.00.

Use Quink,
the amazing ink.

THE PARKER FOUNTAIN PEN COMPANY LIMITED
TORONTO, CANADA

 

== VACUMATIC——
PENS AND PENCILS

Pens marked with the Blue Diamond are mreeenend for life against

everything except loss or intentional eS only to a charge
of 35¢ for postage, insurance and handling, ews complete pen is
returned for service.

  
  
   
 

 

 

 
 

able, smart’ and for
able wear under ie 4 inant

trying conditions.

 
    

 
   
    

Correct raincoats

    
 

supplied for all
three services.

   

 

    

- Students who not desire a complete course in any of the
Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

    

LIMITED |
a

TIP TOP TAILORS Ltd.

STORES EVERYWHERE
422 BARRINGTON STREET

Carl W. Merson, Dartmouth, Agent

       

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

      
        
 

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING
will be valuable aid in future years.

    
  

  
 
  

 
 

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration

  

 
