nbol here for

, they might be when

Ps ‘ “> A ye: oa nF i
1e now familiar sign or;

country is asking to be assigned to
a concentration camp. If our V’s

5 = = } Sys pt’ 2 cel Oe NEY So 24 ir ai
pie 70 to be sesarintod wilt Eeropesn

1 ‘i

ig

There, they sta
we are supposed to be fight» for that has not died in spite of
y asion, and terrorism. With this
‘mind we cease thoughtless usage
“+++ instead of a dash to
ite articles in this column.

nr

months away with:
He took her gently in his arms,
_. And on ner lips hé pressed a
And sai : I’ve sipped the wine
© from many a cup—
Bu , never from a mug like this.
‘ 7, Pel :
’ a toth Saskatchewan and U. B. ©.

ey
SF ew

announce on their respective cam_. puses the Government’s plan to give
-- Jiberal assistance to students leaving
 eollege during the term to enlist in
active forces, They will be able thus
to continue their studies when they
return from service.

ii

+ = at

| pilenr . : are
_ He wrote six hundred poems;
Not one survived, |
>: finale A written more
ree, a ‘If he wadti’t died—McGill Daily.
Here lie we dead, because we did
not choose
To live and shame. the land from
which we sprung,
_ Life to be sure is nothing much to
anak done: Semen?
; But young men think it is, and we
were young.—A. E. Housman.
Goosery Rhyme
My love has flew
Him did me dirt,
Me did not know,
Him was a flirt.
Let’s love forbid,

Lest you get doed
Like I been did—Gateway.

Epitaph.
He rocked the baat,
Did Ezra Shrank;
These bubbles mark

°
Where Ezra sank.—Sheaf.

*

We never used to be able to find
grandma’s glasses, but now she
leaves them just where she empties

VOL. LXXIV

their own|

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 7, 1941

CHURCH PARADE FOR

ma ae A.C.

ARMISTICE DAY
PARADE LIKELY

The Dalhousie C.O.T.C. will make
its first full-dress appearance on
Sunday morning as the Battalion
turns out en masse for a Church
Parade. The parade is to fall in on
the parade ground at 1000 hours,
there to be sized, divided into companies and inspected preparatory to
marching to church. The Protestants are to proceed to St. David’s
Church, while the Roman Catholics
continue to St. Mary’s.

An impressive display is expected, as the battalion has been showing fine form to date and is already
displaying the precision and finesse
that marked the unit at the end of
last year. It is understood that
one of the military bands now stationed in Halifax will be out to play
at the parade. Most Dalhousians
will remember that the chief difficulty in the marching last year was
the fact that it was seldom possible
to-gain the services of a band.

Major Hogan appeared extremely
optimistic in his expectations as to
the performance which the Cadets
will exhibit, but he refused to be
quoted. He did, however, say that
he expects every man to have his
uniform in tip-top condition. White
shoulder braids are to be attached
to the epaulets, brass is to be polished and boots shined. No definite
plans have as yet been made as to
an Armistice Day parade, but Major Hogan declared that it was quite
possible if a major celebration was
held in Halifax that the C.O.T.C.
would be in attendance.

A reorganization of companies
has been announced, so that hereafter all “A” Syllabus candidates
will be transferred from their present companies and will form the
nucleus of “A’ Company.

ON SUNDAY

D. A. A. C. BUDGET
SLASH FOUGHT

The subject of the various team
budgets came under great deal of
debate at a meeting of the D. A. A.
C. held last Sunday morning. The
method of allotment by the Council
was brought under fire by several
of the executive and a heated discussion as’ to how much the various
budgets should be cut took place.
Proposed expenditures for boxing
and wrestling were eliminated altogether and an attempt was made to
slash other team budgets as much
as possible. It was decided, however, that it would be impossible for
the D.A.A.C. to scrape through the

year on the allotments made by the |
Council, unless some change as to|

the Council’s policy in regards receipts from athletics was made.: Under the existing arrangement, a certain sum of money is given the D.
A. A. C. to carry on the’ various
sports. In Football the D. A. A. C.
takes care of the upkeep of the football field and incurs all expenditures
incidental to football. The gate receipts, however, are returned, not to
the D.A.A.C. but to the Council.

In Badminton the D.A.A.C. purchases badminton birds which are
sold at a loss to students as a convenience to the students. The receipts from the sale of the birds,
however, are returned to the coffers
of the Student Council while the
D.A.A.C. must bear the resultant
loss. The fact that these receipts
from athletics are not, seemingly,
taken into consideration when the
D.A.A.C. budget is proportioned met
with strong disapproval by the executive and a resolution. was passed
that the Council be asked to make
more equitable arrangements in this
regard or in the alternative, to in
' crease the D.A.A.C. budget.

McGILL COMPLETES

MILE

SUMMONS

You are hereby ordered to attend
the hearing of Jerry Naugler in
the matter of the Law Ball to be
held this 14th day of November
in the Year of Our Lord 1941,
on the premises of the Nova
Scotian Hotel. Consideration:
3% bucks. Tickets from Roy.
Proceeds to go to the Queen’s
Canadian Fund.

One Moment Please

Because of the imminence of various exams, the Med Ball has

been postponed until after Christmas.

for January 9th.

The new date has been set

Several new C.O.T.C. promotions have recently been posted. They are

|

as follows: To be Acting Sergeant—Cpl. Musset and Cpl. Brannen.

To

be Acting Corporal: Cdt. Wilson and Cdt. Misick.

P.

Last night the treat was on the

girls as Shirreff Hall held its annual

| formal dance. Those iucky enough to get invites to the affair twirled and
whirled to the music of Jerry Naugler.

An Interfaculty Football match will be played next Thursday noon

between Engineers and Arts & Science.

Medicine, 1940 champions.
y Attention! all graduates!
_ be taken before Christmas.

_ _ 
The winner is to challenge

Your pictures for the Year Book must
Order your Year Book now.

i

<n

OF PENNIES

TO BUY BREN
GUNS FOR ARMY

Montreal, P. Q. (C. U. P.)—With
the successful culmination of a mile
of pennies campaign, McGill students last week added $800 to
their war fund. The campaign
lasted three days and was put over
amid blaring publicity. Huge banners decorated the campus as students and passers-by were urged to
contribute their pennies to the drive.

The mile of pennies consisted of |

seven white lines stretching from
the: main gates of the campus to
James McGill’s tomb, directly in
front of the Arts building. At the
end of the third day it was announced that the mile was completed. Calculations showed that an average donation of thirty pennies
was needed from every student to
reach the objective and each person
laying the required number on the
line was rewarded with a bright
red ribbon.

Change booths aided donors in
their giving. The 82,000 pennies
collected will go to buy Bren guns
for the Canadian army.

=
—— a

 

ea

THE WINNER !!!

MISS SUE MORSE of Paradise
who by popular approval becomes
Dalhousie’s first Sweater Queen.

In a new type of popularity contest, Miss Sue Morse ’45,was elected

 

sweater queen of Dalhousie on a
student poll held by the Gazette
last week. Numerous other universities have elected freshette queens,
dramatic queens, etc. in all kinds
and types of popularity polls. Dal’s
first coed to be so acclaimed is Miss
Morse, who, incidentally comes from
Paradise. (N.S.)

A new twist, (not in the wool)
not directly descended from Dr.
Gallup’s organization had been added in the present contest. Seizing
on the distinctive apparel of any
coed, from Vancouver to Halifax,
the Gazette named its own contest
The Sweater Queen Contest.

A statement to the Gazette upon
learning of the honor bestowed upon
the winner was as follows: “Oh?” |

 

Although other contestants threat- |
ened Miss Morse’s leadership in the |
poll, she maintained a clear majority throughout the campaign.
During the past week, it has been)
noticed that even the stately seniors
were shaking the moth balls out of
their woollen garments and making
a bid for the honor.

Nearest rival was one Miss Spitz, |

whom the Gazette has yet to contact. In some respects the returns
were not as large as expected, but
a fair number of students cast
ballots.

Results:

 

Susan Morse
Miss Spitz
Norrie Douglas
Marg Morrison
Candidates under ten votes not
listed. One half vote from Freshman under 16.

NEWMAN CLUB
PLANS ACTIVE YEAR

With its organization meeting for
the year over, and with its new slate
of officers elected, members of the
Dalhousie Newman Club have hopes
of making this, one of their most
active seasons to date.

Their opening meeting took place
Sunday, October 26th, following a
special Mass in their honor celebrated by Rev. D. J: MacPherson,
Club Chaplain, at St. Mary’s Cathedral, and saw Walter Gaudet elected
President, with Joe MacMillan slated
to fill the post of Secretary-Treas.

Topic of this year’s conference
will be “Christian Democracy.”
Dalhousie’s paper is entitled: “Au
am _—— _

DEBATING PLANS

NEAR CO

>

lTrials To Be

Enthusiasm High
At Pep Rally

Few in Number
Loud in Noise

Great enthusiasm marked the Pep
Rally held last Friday evening in

preparation for the Acadia game or |
Saturday. Although the number in

attendance was disappointingly low,
the meeting made up in spirit what
it lacked in numbers. Speeches of
encouragement to the teams were
made by Web MacDonald, Major
Logan, Dr. Hugh Bell, J. S. Roper
and Coach Burnie Ralston. These
concluded, “Moose” McLeod took
over and lead a sing-song of popular
airs which were flashed on the stage

screen by means of lantern slides. |
| A number of Dalhousie songs were

passed around on mimeographed
sheets and included among these
was a newcomer sung to the tune
of “The Man On the Flying Trapeze”. An attempt was made to ascertain the originator of this classic
but was unsuccessful.

fused to divulge the name of the
author so the lyric seems destined
to go down in history as merely another of those unfathomable cases
of anonymous genius.

Then with the cheerleaders in at
to the old familiar Dal yells inter
| spersed with several new ones which

were introduced at the Rally.
Acrobats Anita Reed and Lorraine
Harper provided a background for
the cheerleaders and if they detracted somewhat from the cheering
(from the male section) they added
greatly to the effect.

Much credit is due to Web MacDonald for his untiring efforts to
make the Pep Rally a success. He
had to fight the lethargy and inertia
of the Dal student body in order to
obtain a fair-sized meeting. Little
cooperation was extended to him on
the part of several of the Campus

| societies, which, knowing that the

Rally was to take place continued
to make plans for other events

| which served to detract from the

Rally itself.

“Moose”’ dis- |
claimed any of the credit and re-|

 

|
;

‘next Thursday,

MPLETION

Held Thursday

It has been decided this year that
instead of the seperate trials system for picking debaters, all debaters for the year will be chosen
at the onetrial, which is to be held
next Thursday. Other colleges in
the Maritimes have very much the
same system.

It has been found here at Da! that
just about the same students attend
each trial. It has been inconvenient
for the professors, who have acted
as judges, to give their time on three
occasions, when all the business
could have been done at one sitting,

All those interested in debating
who planned to actively participate
this year should attend the trials
at noon, room 3,
Arts building. There are three inter-collegiate debates making a
total of six debates. From this six
the executive of Sodales, after consultation with the debaters themselves, will decide which two are to
represent Dal in each debate.

Owing to the dwindling interest in
debating this past few years, and ta

|the enthusiasm for mixed debates,
| shown at the girl’s debating confer
| March.

Mount Allison last
Sodales this year, has de
ence held at

| cided to throw competition open for
tendance, the gymnasium resounded | its M. I. O. L. debaters to the girl

|

students, in the hope that it might
stimulate keener interest. All girls

| interested, therefore will take note

_|that they are eligible for these de| bates on com

plete equality with the
male students. That is, debaters

|-will be selected on merit shown at

!

 

 

")

the trials, without regard to sex.

Arrangements have been made
with St. Mary’s College to hold the
Dal-St. Mary’s debate on Friday,
November 28th on:

“Resolved That Canada Should
Conscript Wealth in the Present
Crisis.”

Dal is upholding the affimative,

All contestants prepare a 3-5
minute speech on this subject, and
the debate is to be held in room 3,
at noon, Thursday, November 13.

aD

HiP Ox

(Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion)

Dal-Acadia Game
The students were asked this week what they thought of the DalAcadia football game which was held last Saturday. Most of those
quizzed thought that a high grade of ball had been played by both teams.
Several said that this year’s team of Tigers is much stronger than it has
been for years and some were even willing to bet that the Seniors could

beat Caledonia this year,

Only two of those asked said that they didn’t

like the game, and on being asked why, they replied that they hadn’t been

there.

* *K

%

*

Will the Germans Take Moscow?
Your reporter is happy to say that Dalhousie possesses an optimistic
student body, as 63% answered “No” to the above question. 30% answered
in the affirmative, and the remaining 7% didn’t want to Say one way or

the other.

ck *k

* *

What Do You Read First in The Gazette?
Of those quizzed, 42% said that the first thing they read in the

Gazette is the first page, containing the campus news.

The Sport page

ran a close second with 37%, and the Feature page was next with 12%.
thority and Liberty.in Democracy.” The remaining 9% said that they twmed first-to the Editorial page. —

The One Big Ball

Before Christmas

se

7 eee

a

L L
:
Se es Ree a =e
= ae RRB
+. ei a J
xa
r *
Ss 7 al
y
_

‘a
" ay ey
te il a .
: bat «° in fe
cee 4k. See = i ba

ees oe

cd hss
—_— wows
“Ss

2
=

v

e ;
a é
4 a “ pork .
- 4 : ‘ 7
i we = Ti fe, «Fo
’.. vi. . * a :
6 z
bs ? i
i ¥ ae
1 r

ae 4 > ts e4
-_ * oa ne, ad

Cou
We oa, y ; I

i R
ah

ip “9
ae. pas ie
PIwWIY

he
=

 

a
—_— , Pet Ef att al ine laa eer a b b, ,
Ltd h, 7

tes i - =e bees &
= a i Pe

Bae ui
Pe Homer it

  

 

fe wwette

ee

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 

od ick. of THE GAZETTE are reat of
t any that they represent the opinion of

; MeGurdy Printing Co,, Limited, 54 Argyle St, Halifax
«GAZETTE STAFF

     
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
   

HN \W
TORS Bete ae sane

0! a 5s. FORSYTH te f 7” = * i Ar MACLEOD - - - - B-8576
“Bditor: JOHN TASMAN - - - -  §-2597
oe ee LOUISE BISHOP-  - - + (= — B-9746
ad Exchai Pa es tle | SS
| 0 == = + L-Bb92
or: PAWALLACE Ootvele ena, Ga 3, B8610
mn Manager: BOB McCLEAVE -  - -  - __ B-8576
gi foe aE - = .B-0458

/j
{/
/
/

uae — RIGHT
Le (A Contributed Editorial)

g question of whether or not there exists such a thing
conflict” in Canada may seem to the University
rely academic question, the sort to be taken up in
ate 1 a classes and left there. But occasionally the
demon raises its head in the real life of the University.
merely as a verbal or theoretical monster but as an actual
Such an occasion was last winter at Varsity when Dr.
Levine was jailed for six months on a charge of harborcommunists - and promptly dropped from the staff. Dr.
oe was a very simple one. He was too busy at
¢ research to realize that a “class conflict” existed. He
i to cut down on his living costs (being a $1500 a year man
vithor rr : expenses) by renting a room to two apparently reypectable young men for $15 per month. The two young men
were writing a book on Spain and were discovered by the
.C.M.P. to be communists. Dr. Levine became a criminal.
Th it the president of the university, Dr. Cody, was also unaware
| of the existence of any such conflict was made plain by the
‘atuous remark he was reported to have made at the time
Pe eae Levine. “He must have picked it (Communism) up
in England.”
ert The case is only one of many bearing on the same topic.
a We use it as an illustration merely because it is brought to
mind by Dr. Levine’s recent completion of his jail sentence, his
- subsequent internment and final release as ‘“‘no longer conbe sidered a danger to the state.” Our main point of interest for
_ the moment is not the injustice done to Levine but the fact that
_ although our newspapers, preachers, politicians and all the
exother glad extollers of goodwill insist that we in Canada are
| appy family, such a condition of jitters exists in some
_ quarters that a university professor with no political conmh | parent despite the protests of the most eminent of his fellow
i _ scien ists can be put away for a time as a danger to the state.
| The quantity of Communists in Canada is undoubtedly
roscopic and the comparitively small number of internments
harges relating to Communism are certainly not in them| rming. More noteworthy however is a remark made
by a a delegate at a recent Canadian Congress of Labor convention: “You don’t have to be a Communist to be in an internment
D canp-—al you have to do is to go out and work for the labor
_ movement.” That the Congress is far from pro-communistic
is indicated by its rejection of a resolution demanding the im
  

     

Lost aed os eo . — _
Thy A so Ad ti i rT oee = Wet i har 7 ¥
SYR he ete ia ewan SAD ena
mit La Fe a ty ae Ua
aia Be tt i me ‘
: tae
;

  
 
    
  
 
   
  
  
  

ediate release of all anti-fascist workers interned under the |

e ence of Canada Regulations. But passage of a resolution

Ry

questing “a fair and just trial for those members of the trade | Knowing this, the men who made |

4

MUSIC OF THE

Frequent allusions are made in
discussions of American culture to
the art of the American Indian; his

totem poles, his basket weaving, his

carving and painting. Less, how
ever, is heard about the redman’s

song. Therefore, mention of some
features of the music of the American Indian which were discussed in
a recent issue of the “International
Musician” may interest Gazette

readers.

Although part-singing is part of |

races, dating back, for instance, to

the earliest of recorded history in

Wales, and is known among certain
aborigines, it is unknown to native
Indian music. Nor is solo singing
before a group practiced, or even
solo verses interspersed with group
choruses. When alone in the forest
or in his canoe the Indian may sing
solos, but in the group he prefers
unison song, unaccompanied. Songs
sung in this manner do not conform
strictly to rhythm paterns, that is,
there are frequent changes in rhythm that do not conform to any
discernable pattern.

Our scale rises in half-tones, and
that of the Chinese in full-tones,
but the Indian, like the Maori,
makes use of quarter tones in his
instrumental music. For this purpose the water tom-tom and medicine-man’s rattle are used—chiefly
in conjunction with a low singing
or humming in chorus for accompanying dances. The construction
of the tom-tom from a skin and

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

LITERARY

 

AMERICAN INDIAN

hollow log are familiar, but not so
well known is the method of varying
the tone by shaking the instrument
and causing the water which has
been placed inside to wet the skin
and lower the tone, or conversely,
raising the pitch by quickly wiping
off the moisture with the finger.
Tom-toms vary in size, but when
used by singers for dance music
they are always so adjusted that the
fixed sound (i.e. the highest note)
is harmonically suited to the voice.

the musical tradition of most white | There is also a native flute, the

most advanced of Indian musical instruments, used for solo melodies
such as love serenades. The tone
produced is not a whistle tone like
that of our flute, but a reed tone
similar to our clarinet. The instrument can be used to produce quarter notes with its five holes stopped
by the fingers of the player.

No one ever found a native redman band in our sense of the word,
despite the possibilities of collaboration suggested by the music-making devices mentioned above. In
this respect the African native is
ahead of the American Indian. It
may be that the Indian, with
Oriental cunning, perceived the possibilities of abuse latent in the instrumental group-technique and
suppressed it at birth. The nearest
approximation to band music was
the chorus singing, which by its
very nature excluded the possibility
of such abuses as have been known
in the concerted instrumental music
of other races and other times.

 

“FEAR NO MORE”

Published Cambridge University
Press, 1940.

Fear No More is one of the most
remarkable books of poetry which
has been published for some time.
All the poems in the book have been
written by living English poets
within: the last five years. The book

‘is dedicated to the poet-laureate,

John Masefield, who writes the following note:

“In times of danger, the herdmind has power; the individual
mind, which alone creates the things
of value, is neglected. By the herdmind, Man resists his enemy; by the |

individual mind he conquers Death. |

 

lion movement who are now interned at the earliest date |this remarkable book, bid you Fear

sible,” demonstrates that labor unionists feel that the hand, No More.”

government is being used against them as a class.
This of course is but a manifestation of a far deeper
roblem — widespread dissatisfaction with the government’s
abor policy as a whole. A McGill professor recently declared
at it “is sowing the seeds of the bitterest class struggle
Canada has known.”
* Why is this important? Quite obviously no country engaged in a war can afford strife within itself. Mr. Churchill
_ well knows what Mr. Chamberlain, to his cost, refused to learn;
ih that a government at war must act firmly and fairly to remove
the causes of class friction and unite its people in a joint effort
‘ _and a single purpose. It will be unfortunate indeed if Canada
' has to be seriously weakened by continued strikes and growing
ass ae oe on the part of labor before Mr. King has learned the
aes cael in recent tie-up of McKinnon industries at St. Catherines,
Ontario, where two week’s valuable production was lost while
_ the ministers of Labor and Munitions and Defense displayed
little understanding and considerable bad temper is a case in
pont Government action has so far been aimed simply at
: and forbidding strikes. If the government were far=] St would be aimed at removing the causes of disagreement. It is something like trying to stop a kettle from boiling
___ by plugging the spout. Sooner or later the lid will blow off.
_______ Meanwhile, no one in Canada unless he be an enemy agent,
_ ¢an be enjoying the spectacle of delays and obstructions to
-_- production of war goods. At a recent Kirkland Lake conciliaRear os board sitting the mine owners walked out in the middle of
negotiations, declaring that they would not recognize the union
_ whatever the board might say or do. Thus the government is
defied from both sides and its wishy-washy policy of seeing no
il, hearing no evil and talking of nothing but an imaginary
jonal unity” is generating nothing but antagonism. It
al “be clear enough that a situation which bears all the
rmarks of a class struggle cannot be reconciled by putting a
l a she of so-called communists into concentration camps.

‘to inform him of our purpose in raising this
: columns.-~WVe_are_so_| pe as to believe
s have opinions, that these — lions aré not an
tial part of that — entity called Public en
> that McKenzie King government is able aI

0 wish-fulfillment and jitters while
ws largely because public

eae a of any such thing as a
_ Indeec immedi, i our influential citizens and all
daily papers would be horrified at the mention

   
 

     

All the contributions in the book
show the philosophy which modern
thinking Englishmen are building up
to counteract the ill-effects of this
herd-mind, Two tendencies stand
out very clearly. One is a retreat
from the ugliness of man to the
beauties and quiet of nature. This
is only to be expected, and though
critics will say that this was an unfortunate escapist trend, yet it is
very soothing in these days of loud
explosions to have poets say:

“Heady with autumn now the parrows flirt

From bush to bush. Faster the red
leaves fall

And fiercer under the hedge crackles
the fire.”

This whole eseapist tendency is
summed up in the poem which
starts:

“A continent upon my back,
Heavy with threats of war,
Leaden with tyrannies
I crept away from man,”

The other tendency which is notice
able, and is perhaps a rather contradictory one, is that man is still
the most important aspect of life,
but this is true of individual man,
and not man in society. For instance:

“

The only hope

For man is still man though mankind be cursed.

Horror may slash the earth’s and

 

every face

With hate; yet, if we fill our harmless scope,

We, the last Adam, need not be the
worst.”

J. C,
« Pome »
TO SIR RUFUS PAYNE,
The Rotund

Payne, round in shape, and in sage
council old,

Than whom a better guardian ne’er
held

Dalhousie Gym.,
voice repelled

A mob of Freshmen shy, and Sophomores bold;

O, Stout Red Payne, who fearest
not to scold

The stoutest of Freshettes, be never
felled

By weak-kneed tenderness.
have upheld

Your sacred rites.
gold

Magnanimous has been to let us use

For some shor time, your dwelling
place The Gym.

With humble thanks we praise the
name you bear.

We are so joyful that the Gods did
choose

To call you by so apt a name.
hymn

Will demonstrate our love and care.

(More apologies to Milton)

whose honeyed

You

Your heart of

This

 

struggle had weakened those countries to the point where a
compact, despotic group were able to seize power and resolve
the conflict by means of the blood-purge and the torture

chamber. If things continued

to go badly with the allies it

could happen here. Yet there is no reason for it if government
intervenes with a strong hand for the purpose of establishing
reasonable conditions of equity between the two conflicting
group of present day industrial society. Only when the Nazis
were hammering at their doors did the British government stop

pretending and_resolve the internal struggle by taking Positive
steps to remove the causes of dissentucl.- —-------—~ a

So far the Canadian government, fairly well ndeineetad by

what passes for Public Opinion

have not recognized that there

is any real grievance. They have been content to whisk a few
alleged communists away to jail as though they were causes
rather than symptoms of a deeper cause and put strikes and
complaints down to sheer perversity on ee Eel Me ibe comee eTOUD, wheioer ores ¢ or te mer: f ma

   
 

Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

 

    
 

 

   

ne

November 7, 1941

   
       
 
 

  

WEAR A POPPY
Help owr Needy Veterans

REMEMBRANCE DAY,
Nov. 11th

“Know where I’m taking you?”
“To have a Sweet Cap - | hope!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating .. . It Peps You Up!

 

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED

® 0

HALIFAX Nova Scotia DRUGGISTS
Headquarters for Students
ASK FOR Requirements
DONOVAN’S OJ
BEVERAGES

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR

at DAL CANTEEN KENTVILLE, N. 8.

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

   

CLASS PINS

Would you like your
Class Pin to be “different?” :

BLAKELEY’S

B
WELCOME

TO
DALHOUSIE

C

Birks styling and
quality, plus Birks experience will assure
you of smartness.

Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

43 Spring Garden Road
Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

 

Balhousie Cniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas; Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc.

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

eee =

Many valuable scholarships, on evitrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties ;

Law, Medicine, Dentixtry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

  

   

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

Residence

asidence for women.

a

andi

ed residential faculties for men. ,—

ie
a
  
  

    
 
   
   
   
    
 
 
       
    

“MENTOR_

eke al op RAE A SOCIAL CAREER
f the Seep! esate to be derived from the Complete College
, 7 ne can be of more PEROR BREE than those of a Social nature.

got!

    
   
 
 
 
    
 
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
  

News reaches us that Hennigar
is on the loose again. The theme
song seems to be ‘Pal of my Cradle
Days’, and Marcus is visibly impressed.

! ie ih Social Resdtachs: and this phase of University Training
san no nat Bek rressed too forceably. In his masterful work, ‘Was Macht der
Mann’, the great Psychologist, Herr Hisengrim (failed B.Sc., Munich)
states that “Contacts are Essential”, and for the further Enlightenment
of the uninitiated, we present herewith some Useful Data on the pursuit
of this: ee ing Benet: of Education, compiled after years of Re
 
 

  

  

a * *

Penny has probably learned by
this time that Grime does not pay.
Luckily for Dunsmore, she was reinstated in time for the Formal.
These Navy dates...

“ees aay $

Our Snoop at the Hall tells of a
certain amount of Difficulty experienced by Dot Rose in securing
a date for the formal. Shades of
Itch Graham, whose persistence
will be long remembered, especially by some.

        
     
    
   
 
   
 

 
 

  

Dalhov are ‘areahate in possessing Truly Remarkable
r the formation of a Sound Social Background. Every female

nding the University must reside at Shirreff Hall; unless she

here else. This Unvarying Rule is set forth Defiantly in the
l Cale , and is, for our purpose, a real benefit. This simplifies

‘ by providing a large group from which to pick, and centralizes

this group in one place. These features cannot be overlooked, for they
are of Utmost Significance. (Note: Shirreff Hall itself is Architecturally
ed on the Sanne. to further Social Contacts of a more intimate
nature.) Moi» lit

The best Approach to the problem is to proceed by making a Date.
_ This, however, is more difficult than it would appear. By some marvel
- of Organization, the two telephones at the Hall are kept constantly busy,
and the beginner will be warned that it is Useless to Telephone. The only
’ time the *phones are not busy is between the hours of 2—6 a.m. Do not
attempt to call at these hours. It is not only unorthodox, but somebody
might be asleep. Nes iF

To make a Date, then, it will be necessary to pursue a more direct
course. You will be advised to haunt the Gym store, because sooner or
later you will be rewarded, and the Object of your Afflictions will come
in. Here she can be approached, and the matter settled. Be sure you
arrange time, destination and all details carefully, as there is often much
confusion caused, especially if the young lady receives a better offer for
the same evening, which she would prefer to keep. You have made the
first step. Your Social Career is beginning.

At the appointed hour, then, present yourself at the Main Door of
the Hall. Do not Ring or Knock, but enter Boldly. (Note: The Main
Door at the Hall is designed to flatter the Manly Ego, being held by stout
springs, which gives you a chance to assert your strength). Once inside,
give yourself into the hands of the Maid at the little desk, telling her
whom you want. By mysterious means she will communicate with the
viscera of the building, and presently return to tell you that your Date
will be right down. Compose yourself, you have lots of time.

After a short period, you will be approached by a Co-Ed, who will
bring further tidings of your Date. She, in turn, will be followed by
others, bearing similar messages. Do not be alarmed. They are only
friends of the young lady, who are merely looking you over, as the subject of much flattering discussion later in the evening. This is all part
| of your Invaluable Training, and is bound to effect your future Social
Endeavors to a great degree.

Finally your Big Moment arrives. Keep your head, and do not, under
any circumstances, rush to the door, for she will ignore you completely
until she has completed the ritual of ‘signing out’. Be warned; some
whose impatience outweighed their perspicacity, have gotten as far as
South Street before realizing they were alone, while their date was still
at the desk. Exercise your Self-control at this point. This is Imperative.

At last you are away. Your conduct now will depend entirely on
yourself, though you may be assured it will be thoroughly discussed later.
(See Above). You are now confronted with a race against time. You
will now discover that you are up against an Inexorable System, known
as Leaves, by which you are obliged to be back at the Hall within a
certain timelimit. It is possible to judge, from the extent of the leave

  

  

       
           
    
   

* * &

We tried, but we just couldn’t get
anything on Doug. this week. After
all, you have to be someone to get

into this column, you know.
cd * *

We wish to apologize to Kissy
Minimus, who was heard to complain that not enough of her
friends made this column, so that
it would be more interesting.. We
should like to gently remind her
that they aren’t the only ones who

do anything around here.
* * Bs

We should like to bring to the
attention of none the presence of the
‘Hornet’. This specimen of Genus
Frosh will, with no _ provocation
whatsoever, inject himself into any
gathering. If he wishes to oust

    
    
 

Eisener as General Nuisance, he’s
making a good start.

Episode 4 or 5—Give ’em the Hex.

Rufus could be seen gazing with
rapt attention at a blank sheet of
paper which could with some difficulty be identified-as a Gazoot, an
expression of sullen disdain lingering fondly on his chin. Of a sudden
his eyes lit upon “Sport Spits”, by
Eik MacLoud, and he burst into
poetry:

“That I, with steaming BOILILNG

ESSENCE stewed,
Ineffably intoxication rabid

the young lady asked for, the depth of her regard for your invitation. brewed;
This is stated in Namsat’s Hypothesis, viz: The length of the leave| Would seem, though gravitationvaries directly as to the financial status of the Date, and inversally as ally sound.

 

his Buckteeth, Pimples, etc.

The way, then, to Social Success is now open to you, and with these
suggestions, you should have no difficulty in Achieving the desired end.
If, however, you still continue to have difficulty, you will be advised to
Seek Solace in your books, for if you cannot get a date with a Hall Girl,
you must be in pretty bad shape generally. Absit Oman.

Wilson should be able to tell us all
what Oland’s farm is like—Pardon
—perhaps he isn’t able to, even if
he was there.

That pep rally Friday seems to
have had numerous after effects.
What say boys? The tea dance on
Friday opened our eyes also. Gosh,
Oscar don’t let Rogers walk Miss

Of course we understand what you
mean Musset — these women will
drive any man to drink.

Doug Large tells us he’d rather

 

 

WHY DID - YOU COME TO.
COLLEGE?

Irma MacQuarrie, Ist Year Arts:
I guess I came to College to get a

hidden motive, and I’m still looking
for her.

Kay Hicks, 4th Year Arts.

of Patsy. Boys—Doug gave up one
dance at the Tea Dance—the lucky
chap was Teasdale. These fifty cent

Lorna said it, it sounds like something she would say.

 

John Tasman, 4th Year Science.

College, to me, has always been a
means to great accomplishments,
which I see before me with their
shimmering things, and their fervent stuff. Gotta Cigarette.

Rod. Fredericks, 2nd Year Arts.

To get an Education and to meet
_ Professor Jewitt. (Which is an education in itself. Ba)

Dot. Graham, 3rd Year Commerce.
You're not going to get anything
out of : me.

Bob Murphy, 2nd Year Science.

   
    
   
   
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

|den and Eisenhauer.
nc ry pete maybe “he

Kissy Minimus, Ist Year Arts.

To tell you the truth, I didn’t
want to go at all; I was sent. I
wanted to go to Wellesley, but they
made me come to Dal. darn it.

T-SQUARE

   

Sometimes we’re afraid that maybe we are too caustic—'cause all the
boys are behaving themselves nowa-days, or covering up well!

We’re surprised at Canavan, Wil
Not seeing
enough ‘of Acadia on t that Lala
on Minday: Maybe the hospitality
up there isn’t so bad—if you know

the right people.

Charlie—did you take advantage

Pa erie! of the lovely moon this week? You
Com ec ei, folks that Fowler has a most

tful cottage in the country.
king ie? ae re.

Gordie \

To get a B.A. (male) ... Oh! ‘ ,
lot of K wledge, to have a lot of | gon’t put me down for that—I came bet m Bre | ROMeUINE aT ¥, they
fun, and to loaf a lot. Hey, put that | 4, get a B.Sc. Miller away from you like that.

By the way, has anyone seen
Johnny Rogers’ fraternity pin since
that Dolores episode? I wonder...
Doug?

Corrections

The Miss Mavison reported in connection with Johnny MacLean last
week was all a mistake—it was June
Davison.

Warnings:

To Johnny More — watch that
Betty Bird more closely. Pine Hill
seems to attract her.

To Bruce Bauld: remember the
“freedom of the press’’.

Garrick

A Famous Players Theatres
Sat. - Mon. ‘>> “THREE GIRLS
ABOUT TOWN”

- and “MERCY ISLAND”

Wed. - Thurs. - Fri.
“PAPER BULLETS”
- and “MISBEHAVING
HUSBANDS”

   
    
                
       
            
     
       
      
  

    

Tues...

   

     

   

 

Did Joe have a birthday on Saturday, or was he piqued at not being
on the Senior team. We understand
that he was poured into the Sucker
Dance later in the evening.

* * *

We are led to the inevitable conclusion that the reason we weren’t
let into the Dance at Acadia was
because they were afraid they might
see some real dancing, or that their
Fair Ones might be disillusioned.

We weren’t.
* * *

Bright sayings of Children: ‘Red’
Payne was overheard saying to
Jarvis last week, “Do you want to
buy some Ham, I’m selling the Intermediates”.

a a *

The hunting season on “Moose”
seems to be open, or perhaps there
never was any. Anita Reid has
the license, but the “Moose” is
wary.

a Bs

The Phi Rho Dance on Friday decreased the number at the Pep Rally
considerably. We understand that
they were also paid a friendly ‘call
by Phi Chi, with no disasterous results.

* aK *

Pig Sty Charlie summed up the
Sweater situation in a terse comment to the effect that it was hardly
fair, as some weren’t old enough yet.
You may have something there,
Chas., and yet again...

* * *

Grime Marches On.

» Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

 

Whenever I pass! a cheque it
seems to rebound .. .”

At this point the sinister hand of
a neighbouring fan was laid upon
him. Glancing up hurriedly rom
the “Spits”, Rufus was horrified to
see

 

The mass of antennae slowly settled, and could be observed to consist of merely Uneeda Weed and
La Reine Happy tying themselves
up in protozoan contorsions a la
midriff, also a little greased pig who
loved to sit just quietly and smell
the pretty flowers.

All at onee the peaceful pig was
snatched into the air. A sweatered
figure appeared perched on a cloud
of ballots, crying: “I’ll win or bust

”

we called Miss Flynn — Pat instead |
Who is perched in a cloud of

ballots? Perhaps you will find
out next week. Perhaps you know
now.

 

OXFORD

Friday - Saturday

KISS THE BOYS GOODBYE
“REPENT AT LEISURE”

Monday - Tuesday

“UNDERGROUND”
AFFECTIONATELY YOURS

Wednesday and Thursday

“ADVENTURE IN
WASHINGTON”

“UNDERAGE”

  

ORPHEUS

Actually Filmed Under Fire
The R.A.F. its cast!
“The R.A.F. filmed it!

“TARGET FOR TONIGHT”

Plus 4 Swell Featurettes
Carnival of Rhythm
Ministrel Days
Dog in the Orchard
Merry Melody

A good plan...
"pause and

  

A little minute is long
enough fora bigrest when
you drink an ice-cold
bottle of ‘‘Coca-Cola’’. So
when you pause through
Aa ee eae 2

ies tee
out the day, make if the = gates “ oak ee

oo

ay?

Se a
Oo oe
conn ,

Shen
Sitar

pause that refreshes with

ice-cold “‘Coca-Cola”’, YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

M €rcury sped far above fatigues
With Picobac to charm his endless leagues.

@ Students also must cover much ground —
academic if not terrestrial. In their arduous
journeys through the realms of learning, they
find that Picobac gives them “wingéd feet of
thought”. For the pick of Canada’s Burley
_- is always a mild, cool, sweet smoke —a
vade mecum incomparably satisfying and financially undemanding.

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH - 15¢
14-LB. "LOK-TOP” TIN ~ 65¢

also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe! ”

 

“SUNDOWN”

GENE
TIERNEY

BRUCE

C' 4 :
Famous Players Theatre

Friday — Saturday — Monday
Nov. 7, 8 and 9

MICKEY ROONEY
JUDY GARLAND
“LIFE BEGINS FOR
ANDY HARDY”

Another Hardy
8

       
   
   
       

Family. Hit }

)

       
   
  

 

Sr ueaiey = mee coe
Noy. 11, 12 and 1
CABOT BOB HOPE |
PAULETTE GODDARD
GEORGE —in
SAUNDERS

 

  
 
    

“NOTHING BUT
THE TRUTH”

   
 
 
     
   

3ERS PUMMEL
Bye. Bengals ive Visjtors Tie i in Knot
| Bu Junior Squad is Not So Hot

as By virtue of their 12 to 6 win over the Acadia Axemen
| —_—— last Saturday, and their fifth victory in six contests this season,
| ~~ the :~—Ralston-coached, Fiendel-led Dalhousie Tigers assured
| —s« themselves of at least a tie for first place in the City Rugby
/ --——- Jeague, and further enhanced their reputation as one of the

best teams in the East. The game was a crucial one for the
| Acadia squad; upon it depended all their hopes of retaining
_ ~~‘ the ‘title they won last year. Consequently they were out for
| -—s*iilood, but after sixty minutes of play, they retired from the

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Hoopsters Have

High Hopes

* + *

With rugby fast fading from the
sport-scene, and the hockey outlook
muddled for the present, Dalhousie
sportsmen and sportswomen are beginning to ponder the basketball
set-up for the coming season. It is
a foregone’ conclusion that the Halifax City Basketball League will op
 

Oy when Feindel, “Duckfoot” McLean

__— geross after a thirty yard run.

‘protected

= field convinced that the better team had won.

The type of play which has marked Dalhousie victories in the past
three weeks was again demonstrated by the Tigers. For the gold and
black squad, the best defence was a
hard-driving attack, and the StudleyForrest fifteen were quick to follow
up the advantage gained by Ron

_Ideson’s score in the first few minu
The Tiger-men from
never

tes of play.
that point onward were
headed.

With the Tigers protecting their
slim lead, and thrusting at the

Acadia defence for soft spots, they

were awarded a penalty directed in
front of the Acadia team’s posts. It

 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

  

termediates did win a game, the
Seniors promptly lost to the Navy.

What the intermediates did show,
on Saturday, was that even against
a fast, tricky team as the Acadians
were, the Dal Cubs could-put up a
good, fight. And while the Cubs were
a trifle short on the defensive end of
the game, nevertheless they_.produced enough good football to show
that Coach Ralston will have good
material to draw from when he requires replacements next year.

The score was: Acadia 11; Cubs,
3, with McLellan of the Cubs registering the Dal try.

Cubs’ line-up: Zatsman, Rogers,

erate, with teams from Dalhousie,
Acadia, and the various military
services in the city. It is doubtful
whether the Dal Grads, who finished last in the 1940-41 race, will
post an entry this year.

It is expected that the same relaxation of official regulations which
enabled Dalhousie and Acadia to
meet in rugby, will apply equally
to basketball, and the college quintets are quite ready, willing and able
to renew their feud.

Of last year’s squad which was

runner-up to the star-studded Navy
team in league competition, Dal has

was a relatively easy three points to| Wiswell, Jones, Murphy, Smith, lost Johnny Martin, (he of the bulmake, but in the mind of many a| Bagnall, Kirkpatrick (captain), Ha-|let pass), Norm McRitchie (he of
Dal supporter was the thought that|/gen, McLellan, Dunsmore, Large,|the great girth), and Ross McKim
in five previous contests the Bengals had failed to register on even
one of penalty kick attempts. This
particular one would have been an
unhappy one to miss. Taking the
responsibility upon himself, however, Captain Jo-Jo booted the pigskin squarely between the uprights,
while the Dal band blared “Glory”,
the Dalhousie stands went mad.

The Kelley-coached crew were
scarcely. out. of the picture at this
early stage, however, for they came
back with a beautiful backfield run
to tally three points on try, and to
happily, for us, at any rate, miss
the convert. Shortly before the first
half ended, however, the Dal scrum
really got their backs down, and
pushed the ball and the entire
Acadia team to the latter’s five yard
line. From this point, Dooley MacIntosh made it look like easy work
to hike the ball across the last
stripe, and register Tiger’s ninth
point.

With the opening of the second
half, the Wolfville crew were pressing hard, but they failed to reckon
with the speedy Dal backfield, and

& Co., broke loose, it was “Yank”
Forsythe who carted the leather

Dal, with a nine point advantage,
its lead handily, and
there was no further scoring until
a few minutes before the final

-whistle, when The Axemen were

awarded a penealty kick right in
front, and made it good.

The final score of 12 to 6, therefore, indicated a number of things.
showed that the Tigers, by defeating the Axemen twice, were clearly

superior to the valley squad, and
that the pride of Dalhousie*is the
class of the City League, It showed
that the Tigers have ability and lots
of fight and that they can use both
to advantage.

The Dal line-up consisted of -the

following men:
Russ Webber,

Jo-Jo Feindel (captain),

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 

Marty McDonald,
Jack McKenzie, “Duckfoot”” McLean,
“Yank”
Forsythe, Jack Kerr, “Dooley” Mac
Cox, Roy, Prat. mie, (he of the great “clutch.’’)

 

This year’s team will be built

tory over the desciples of Anson, | around those of last year who have
Pollock, Bevan et al., in Thursday’s pepreenee Ponies R. Wilson, Geo,
violent and bloodyy encounter, the Murray, Mike” Smith, Jack McKenAria anid Science foolhardics have|”"° and Al MacLeod. There has
volunteered to sacrifice all in an been no report of new basketball
effort to trample the Engineers un- oe ” od aug ees se dae
der foot. Accordingly a match has wall te = probebiivy come up from
been arranged for the coming eek. eee intermediate ranks, Of
—scene of said carnage to be Stud- _ veer EiLereneetes Sateen,
ley field, at an hour when all normal Webber,.and Doig have returned.

people will be sitting down to a| Coach Ralston announced during
noonday meal. May Heaven pre- the week that practices for the team
serve you, A. and S, | will begin in the very near future,

fs - |

As a result of the T-Square vic
 

 

 

 

SPORT Spice

by AL. MacLEOD

 

   

 

The Axemen were trimmed: their lustre was dimmed,
And their tempers grew shorter and shorter—

But we didn’t conceive

That they’d vent all their peeve

On a poor little innocent porker ! !

This could go on forever ... But don’t worry, we won’t
let it. The game played last Saturday on the Studley field
requires no comment from this corner. For those of you who
were there( and who wasn’t?) the exhibition the Tigers put on
was eloquent: it speaks for itself. Wern’t you proud of the
“play up, play up, and play the game” spirit your gold and
black fifteen demonstrated? With the student body behind
them to a man, with enthusiasm running high, with music,
cheers and song to urge them on, the Tigers were in high gear
all the way, and the Acadians didn’t have a chance. (At least
so it seems, in retrospect). Actually, however, the Kelleycoached crew were a powerful, threatening squad, and more
than once ticklish situations developed on the Dal goal line to
make the Dalhousie position precarious. But after sixty
minutes of play, Captain Jo-Jo Fiendel and his team had outfought, outrun and outkicked the Wolfville aggregation, and
had brought another portion of glory to Dalhousie.

* K * ok

intermediate rugby team. All season long these men have
turned out to daily practice, providing opposition for the Senior
squad, taking a daily “beating”, and getting very little credit

This week we’d to say a word or two on behalf of the|

HAUGHTY AXMEN

 

CO-EDS ONLY

By M. PARKES

DAL BOYS! WE CHALLENGE
YOU! The girls are just waiting
to show you that they’re pretty
good at ground-hockey. Are you
prepared to let them prove it very
soon?

We can’t believe that proof is
necessary, but it’s much more satisfactory.

Last Tuesday there were more
girls than usual on the field, so
something must be in the wind, and
they seem determined. Bunny
Morse showed her colors as fullback, against Edgehill not so long
ago, and then there are others like
Doshie Stairs and Anita Reid to rile
you a bit, by sliding through your
lines,and we don’t even stop there,
for among others are Vera Crummy
and Laura Bissett to hold you back.

So here and now, we lay our
challenge before you. Do with it,
what you will!

 

Tigers to
Tackle Warbirds

With the Dalhousie Tigers enjoying the prestige of first place in the
Halifax City Rugby ‘League, they
mark time from league competition
this week-end to await the outcome
of the Acadia vs. Navy game, which
will have a direct bearing on the
final team standings. If the Tars|
beat the Wolfville squtd, they will)
have the same number of wins and |
losses as the Dal squad, and a play- |
off between these two teams will be

 

Four Expert Barbers to Improve
Your Appearance and no
long waiting at

JACK MITCHELL'S
BARBER SHOP
41 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

for it. On Saturdays they have played in exhibition games
preliminary to the Senior team’s City League contests. They
haven’t been very successful from a won-lost point of view,
because they can show only one victory in six starts.
some measure of credit is coming to Burnie Ralston for his
coaching, and to the Seniors for their playing, an equal measure
must be given to the almost anonymous fifteen men whose

But if |

Intosh, Web McDonald, Gordie Wilson, Andy Anderson, Gordie Milligan, Ron Ideson, Ian McGregor and
“Mucker” Melvor.

The Intermediate Cubs were de
 
  
 

 

games are generally given a

what we want to do here.
f 2k

very meagre write-up, but who

nevertheless week after week carry the torch for Dal. That’s

oe *

 

 
   
 
 
 

feated by the Acadia intermediate
team in a preliminary match last

Saturday. But it wouldn’t be fair to
say that the junior squad couldn’t
have won had they wanted to. And
it wouldn’t be fair to say that Kirkpatrick’s incorrigibles didn’t want to
win.

But the undeniable fact remains
that had the intermediates won their
game, a lot of people who were

_ would have been more than slightly

anxious when the opening whistle
blew for the Snior game. Because
this season, whether by coincidence
or not, it has happened that on every
occasion when the junior team lost

their game, the seniors immediately

rushed out and won theirs, And
upon the lone oceasion when the in
es

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

A sense of foreboding overcomes us when we think of the
unhappy session which awaits a dozen of Dalhousie’s stalwart
sons. It seems that an exhibition of ground hockey is mooted
—between representatives of Shirreff Hall and a picked team
of male undergraduates. Think well, men before you embark
upon any foolhardy exhibition such as this. Can you picture
Feminine Ferocity, armed with a wicked club, advancing upon
you, relishing the opportunity to smack you? (With the club.
of course. Girl’s rules are used in this game). Hell hath no
fury like that of a woman ... You will go into the game with
two strikes on you. Every feline strategem will be emploved
against you. Your good intentions will be suspect. Not a pass

parently persecuted womankind. You wiii be scorned and
taunted if vou are gallant enough to lose. You will be branded |
as ill-bred blackguards if you are wise enough to win. Beware.
the tawny Tigress! The so-called ‘fair’ sex is most unfair|
under conditions like these. And if we may conclude on’ er
elegiac note: |

When woman deigns to play the game,

She quickly becomes an hvsterical dame;

*Twas woman who set old Trov in ashes:

You'll not get off with less than scratches!

_will you_make without_raising hue and cry on the part of ap-|

THE

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

 

necessary. However, if the Axemen
can repeat their victory march over
the sailors, the Dal squad will be in,
and will automatically meet the
famed Caledonia fifteen for the McCurdy Cup, and the Eastern Canadian Championship.

The Tigers will not be idle this
week-end, however. A game has
been arranged with an R. C. A. F.
team from Debert, to be played on
Studley field Saturday afternoon.
It is expected, too, that the Dal field
will be the scene of a City League

 

SPORT FLASH!

Evil Engineers defeat unlucky
Lawyers 3-0 in football encounter.
See this page next week for gory
details.

 

 

 

the individual.

 

 

 

 

November 7, 194

4

 

Wallace Shoes

Now is the time to Buy |

Boots and Shoes for
Men and Women.

Wallace Bros.

Limited

415 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. S.

Covered with
Neilson’s smooth
French-style Chocolate

 

NAVAL OFFICERS’
UNIFORMS

@ Uniforms for officers of the Naval Service
must, of course, conform to regulations, but
the quality of the tailoring may be left to
Naval officers’ uniforms as
produced by Tip Top Tailors are high in
favor because they are conscientiously and
correctly tailored of fine materials to give
dependable, smart and comfortable wear
under the most trying conditions.

Correct raincoats and ‘‘whites’’

 

authentically tailored-to-measure

 

 

TIP TOP TAILORS

Ltd.

STORES EVERYWHERE
422 BARRINGTON STREET
Carl W. Merson, Dartmouth, Agent

  

 
