   
   

  

a aking drastic has happened
Ses the: Editors in the Far Wast.

ny ey have gone color-mad. The
fie i eat from Saskatchewan turns up
4 in the brightest. of bright blue front
Le "pages. The Gateway, not to be out_ done while celebrating some myster, ious thing called “WaWa Weekend”
ite prints its outside pages on bright
i yellow and t the inside sheet on a very
brilliant cerise shade,

 
  
 
   
  
   
    
 
  
  
 
  
   
       
   
   
    
    
    
    
    
      
  
  

 

ee Tn an “explariation as to what Wai Wa is all about we come upon the
eri Ly following enlightment:

1 ie! “Once upon a time there was a
tiny gosling, but she was an ugly
: _ duckling, her daddy was really a
- drake, but if she’d been a gosling
ne he would have been a gander; and
- so would the duckling who lived in
_ the. puddle i in the middle of the road.
A yway it goes on like this for
columns and in the end its just Sadie
ae with feathers.

oe

 

 

i “Then ao was the guy who met
| * ‘ "Suzette the oriental dancer and on

rr introduction said “shake”. But then

‘. she lost her job through stomach

se trouble’ because ae lost control of
| it.

 

‘The old maids are here again:
ts i “Oh, Agatha, I’m going out with
rev Ba used automobile selcomen. m

 

an Shes * On Suicide.

ee Roses are Red

Violets are Blue

When “Birdlegs” see this

He will be too.

For this poor lad

Is he really slipping

He went ‘too far.

With his | “Campus Clippings”

; (The Bronx Cheer)

 

And if you don’t:
) Epitaph for a Wit.

dir oO you who read my epitaph,
Approve this final jest and laugh,
he For if I stood where now stand

you,
Believe me, Friend, I would laugh
too.—McGill Daily.

 

at A somber laste At Toronto, those
bet who shave not taken the military

training program and are liable for
ss yomaci| service are being called up.
_ These are students from 25-26 who
have heretofore only trained volun-|

  
 

 

cle Cop (after waving car

2 - of the road): Do you
wa | remember the last time I stopped
hs PE, et

F a Coned: Wes, This time. 1 think
- oe teks 6 the: ee —Argosy Weekly.

n Tuesday

 
  

   
  

ar ee P iamleed uae
< a aris ing - out, of Council Constitution,
tl the Bye-Elections scheduled for 1st
Mi Tee esday ‘were prostponed and will
b e held instead on next cst
: .

  
 
 

  
 

    
  

Sevens and Gordon

Lead Off In Debating
Opener For Dalhousie

 

It will be Howard Gordon and
James Stevens for Sodales against
St.. Mary’s in the debate on Friday,
November 28th. Dal upholds the
affimative on “Resolved that Canada Should Conscript Wealth in the
Present Crisis.” The debate will be
held in Room 8 of the Arts building.
These two were chosen for the team
out of the trials held last Thursday,
when the topic of discussion was that
of the St. Mary’s debate. Other debaters chosen were Ed Morris, Walter Gaudet, Ralph Vaughan, Charlie
O’Conneli, Eileen Mader, Colin Smith
and Kell Antoft. The last two named along with Howard Gordon were
to be substitutes for the teams, but
because O’Connell couldn’t fit his debating in with other work, Gordon
received the bid to participate in
probably the most important debate
of the year. He will be teamed with
Stevens, Sophomore, who is one of
Studley’s ablest orators, For the
first time in the recent history of
debating at Dal. girls could turn out
for the trials, and Miss Mader made
a successful bid. She will probably
line up with Walt Gaudet for the
St. Thomas debate to be held on the
campus soon after Christmas, and
E. Morris and Ralph Vaughan will
get the coveted trip out of town to
Wolfville.

Debating . .

 

JIM STEVENS

Leading the debate against Saint
Mary’s next Friday will be Jim Stevens, experienced Sophomore speaker, who, along with Charles Gordon,
will uphold the affirmative on “Re
solved That Canada Should Conscript Wealth in the Present Crisis.”

 

An important meeting of the
Class of *43 has been called for
next Tuesday noon in Room 3 of
the Arts Building. The matters
under discussion will include the
Junior Prom for which a committee must be appointed and plans
made. 
 

 

AMAZONS OUTROUGH
OUTRAGED MALES
CATS CLAW TIGERS; RALSTON PLANS

SHIRREFF HALL FOOTBALL TEAM |

It was probably some unhappy philosopher-poet, picking
grains of arsenic out of his morning porridge, who first ob
served that “the female of the

species is more deadly than the

male”. In the light of the ground hockey game played at Stud-.

ley on Wednesday afternoon he

was guilty of grave understate
ment. Multiple scars, bumps and bruises on the masculine corporeal frame of Dalhousie bear witness to the frenzied zeal

with which the females prosecuted their cause.
o————

Manager “Red’”’ Payne had organized a powerful squad of “muscle

|-men” to throw against the Wily

Women. At least, in pre-game discussions it looked capable enough.
With Payne himself in charge of organization, and Major Hogan (attired in plaid tam ’shanter, controlling the Tactics of the Field Department, the masculine squad seemed
to have everything.

Mike Smith (who seemed to be
more concerned with protecting himself, rather than the goal) was attired fittingly in the latest edition of
the daily paper; Burnie Ralston was
using a sly technique: his “slick”
hair-do proved more than enough to
distract the opposition.

“Chuck” Tasman was trying vainly to get the Shirruffian mind off
the game by reading copious extracts from “The Mentor”, but this
seemed only to infuriate the co-eds
all the more. (It must be tripe).

“Yank” Forsythe, D. A. A. C.’s
Bob Blois, “Never give a Sucker a
Break” Matthews, and the Mooseman pursued the more direct technique of tripping, slashing, hair-pulling, and rolling-in-the-mud, in contrayention of all that Emily Post
‘|has. to say about social conduct.
|“Blanche” Wiswell got away with
murder, and boy, wasn’t he the
.| lucky one!
_ The girls came onto the field with

| coy demeanour and shrill giggles,
|attempting to create the impression
_|that they were helpless, and there—~ | fore harmless. But when Phyllis

 

| Wray ee lore was acting as

y referee BP) Dlew

all NDP’ py) d

   

*
squeak E 5)
dai Y a.

 

Stairs and Anita (Uneeda) Reid
(Weed) proceeded to slash at unprotected masculine limbs with gay
abandon. The Morse menace (Bunny and Sue) combined with the uninhibited Jean Cameron to throw
the masculine ranks into confusion.
The cute Siriol number took the
game seriously for awhile, until
Lynn Marcus showed her how effectively a man’s skull could be bashed
in with a hockey club. Irma McQuarrie, who was late getting into
the game, spread ruin right and
left when finally she came on the
field. ¢

In the midst of all this activity,
with the boys scurrying for cover,
in helpless and hopeless retreat,
only. the Major stood firm and resolute, like the thin Red British line.
Realizing that the Vicious Vixens
were in awe of the Major’s sartorial
excellence and austere bearing, the
rest of the men rallied behind him,
pushing him into the centre of the
fray. At this point, however, Marg
Morrisson decided that strong measures were called for, so she took
the Major-out of play with an undignified, but well-directed tackle.
The backbone of the masculine defenee having been thus disposed of,
the co-eds proceeded to run roughshod over what little opposition remained. Bill Hagen, who seemed to
have come under an hypnotic spell,
scored goal after goal against his
own team, and when the final whistle
blew, the girls marched off the field
to ite tune of their victorious
athe ; ire Ke

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 21,

 

1941 No. 8

PharosDrive Launched

bd eas Orceachen, YEAR BOOK STAFF OPENS
Dance Tomorrow Night CAMPAIGN FOR SUPPORT

Delta Gamma is holding its an- The Year Book is a record of your life at Dalhousie. In it are denual Dance for the benefit of the} Picted for your personal record the high lights of a university career, In
Halifax Community Chest Fund at| Years to come, it will serve as an album or a diary for reference and for

 

 

   

 

%

   

¢ bs = gt i a
2K | arore YY n
eevee Nees
a wae F
a “= bs ¥

Shirreff Hall on Saturday of this
week. If you are interested in

| good orchestra (three pieces), good
food, and more important than
either of those things, a good floor
with room to enjoy dancing. If you
have been supper dancing at either
of the hotels lately you can appre‘ciate how pleasant it will be to dance
‘at least a dozen steps without being
‘bumped practically off the floor.
Your favorite professors and their
‘wives have been asked to chaperone
the Community Chest Benefit Dance,

|

 

Dr. and Mrs. Bell. Their presence is
very nearly a guarantee that this
will be the kind of dance that you
will be glad to attend.

| To make assurance doubly sure,
we have arranged to provide the
| finest of home-cooking for the re\freshments. Francis Webster is
| Social Convener for this adair, and
| she has been soliciting food from the
| City Girls. As many of you know,
‘that means very tasty things to éat.
Remember those «wonderful sand| wishes you had the other week at
| tea, Whossit?

| The Committee for Advertising
and Finance are Barbara Sieniewiez, “Doshie” Stairs,
Berringer.

stands who
dance,
the custom to sell tickets to the fair
sex only, so only boys who were
lucky enough to have girl friends to
invite them were able to go to this
fine party. This year we have decided to give the boys a break. If

 

— |your best girl decides not to take

you, then you can buy a tichet and
take in the dance anyway (with
who ever you choose to honor with
an invitation). Man truly is the
privileged class!

The Dance begins at Ghirreff Hall
at 8.30 Saturday night, the 22nd, or
tomorrow, Dancing continues until
midnight. We’ll be seeing you there.

Inez’s Boys Take ,
Title From Meds

In a rough and tumble match played on Wednesday in a sea of mud,
Inez Smith’s boys took Medicine
over the hurdles to capture the Inter-Faculty Football title. Climaxing an interesting series of elimination contests, the outcome of the
game came as a distinct surprise.
“Although the Arts and Science
team deserves much credit for staving off the powerful Med attack,
much of Medicine’s downfall may ‘be
attributed directly to the stellar
backfield play of two of their cohorts, who were loaned to the

 

enemy, Pinky Smith, whose kicking

left little to be desired, and Murray
Davis, former Senior biaver whose
vicious tackling broke up numerous
attacks by the opposing backfield.
These players were loaned to the
Arts and Science squad out of the
goodness and mercy of the Meds
when only thirteen men appeared on
the field to fight for the honor of
Ignatz Schmidt’s Society.

It was in the early moments of
the game that stRe one ana oe

(:* See aso,

and Nancy}

I hear that not every one under- |
invites who to this|
In other years it has been |

   
  

around the ea for one.

nostagic dreams of a bye-gone day.

It will only be such, however, if all

graduates extend their full cooperation to the Year Book staff by having

Saturday night dancing it would be| their pictures taken, and that as soon as possible.
an excellent opportunity to indulge | that all graduates’ pictures must. be taken before Christmas. At a meetlyour taste, since there will ‘be | ing of the graduating class held last week it was decided that, in order to

Notice has been given

' facilitate the taking and ee of photograph’s for the Year Book, all

pictures would be taken at Climo’s

 

 

National S. C. M.
Secretary Visits

 

oe Durrant, former missionary in
eae China, and now serving as
associate missionary secretary of the
Canadian &. C, M., arrived in Hali
students and graduates.
have been planned by the local S. C.
M. in which Miss Durrant is discussing with interested students the
Christian challenge in the world today, with special reference to wartorn China, and the job that is ours
in post-war reconstruction—problems which all students must face
A our present day world.

Miss Durrant is a graduate of the
University of Western Ontario and
has spent one term in Honan, China,
returning to Canada in 1940.

Will those interested please note

On Wednesday, November 19, Miss.

A
| Y

 

 

 

A timetable for prospective graduates to follow in getting photographed was posted in the Gazette

Dal last week and was also listed on the

various Bulletin Boards. Only a
few have availed themselves of the
opportunity and have followed the
timetable as set out. If you are
unable to keep your appointment,

| you are urged to call the photog
namely, Prof. and Mrs. Bennet and | fax to spend a week with Dalhousie |
Meetings |

 

 

_ will be setting the gears in motion

the schedule of meetings for Miss

Durrant’s visit:
Nov. 20—12 noon: Girls’ Study

Group. Room 3 Arts Building.
Nov. 21—7 p. m.:

Hill. |
Nov. 283—2-3 p. m.: Girls’ Study |
Group.
Nov. 24—8 p. m.: General Meeting. (See Bulletin Board). Topic,

China: The Church and the Crisis.
Nov. 25—12 noon: Girls’ Study
Room 3, Arts Building.
Nov. 26—6-9 ip. m.:
per Meeting.

Plan to attend the Millionaire’s
Ball on January 6, in the Dal

Gym.

 

 

* *

Have You Read Hitler’s “My Struggle’?
Any of Churchill’s Works?

Nobody had gone through Hitler’s Gospel completely. 50% had read
éach author, and the other half had heard about them.

were in the majority and accounted for the half and half percentage,
*

* *

The Double-barrelled Nonenities of the Week!
Do You Consider Yourself Beautiful?
How Many Times Have You Been In Love?

We only could get answers when we promised them to mention no
personalities (or nonenities). Only 20% of the men were optimistic about
All the women were strangely modest.
she would let others answer it for her. Another wanted a chance to think
(Brother, it won’t do any good.) 60% of the women, in answer
“That would be telling.”

the first question.

it over.
to the second question, said,

  
  

Meeting at Pine |

General Sup- |

rapher and have the time changed.

The staff of Pharos is out to make
this one of. the. best Year Books ever
publishetfia

 
    

-~

housie and Snclbbletee of the high
standard of the University. By doing just two little things; adhering
to the schedule for photos and by ’
getting in your orders for a copy of
the Year Book (this last applies to
each and every Dal student) you ~

which will go a long way toward
making Pharos ’42 a success.

The organization of the Phares

| Staff at present is as follows:

|

 

DIPO

(Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion)
Will U. S. and Japan Go to War?

55.5% queried thought that war would arise out of the very critical
situation that has been rapidly developing in the Pacific.
women were definitely pessimistic about the chances for peace between
the Nipponese and the forces of Uncle Sam, while only 61% of the men
believed that such a war was inevitable,

Inez Smith—Managing Editor
Mary Boswell—Associate Editor
Helen MacKay—Features Editor
Keith Laughton—Photographic Ed,
Anita Reed—Circulation Manager
“Moose” MacLeod—Sports Editor
A. Sandoff—Art Editor

Reuben Cohen—Literary Editor
Faculty Representatives:
Sandy MacDonald—Law

Jack Kerr—Medicine

Bob Bingham—Dentistry

Kay Robinson—Arts

Penny Patchell—Science

Doug MacKean—Education

Bob Wilcox—Engineering

D. Huntes—Commerce

  
     

>

  
   

a

       
      
    
  

100% of the

  
    
   

   
     

* *

 
 
     
        
     

(Imagine!) Men

     

*

  
     
         
       
 
    
  

One said that

   
       

 

One was honest

enough to say once, another was non-committal, and a third (a blush bepainting her maidenly cheek, and some of this maidenly cheek in her an
swer) said as many as the stars above,

Most of the men didn’t have time

to add it up, though one modest individual reached infinity on his fiingers

and toes before his energy gave out.

One said “no times”, and after we

assured him.there was such a creature as women, he promised to look

. Was.
ni Pn :

ee ane Sal eed Dal boys have been in

siness, and another
ick now.”

none of our ob
Baye ee  
 
 
   

 

     
     
  
 

Ol "College Paper in America”
ssed in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
t be audtemed that they represent the opinion of

  

r: WEBSTER MACDONALD ~

[W. GRANT - - eee e eS. -BBBIB

r: A. S. FO Re eT anaes a. . BO98G

| or: AL MACLEOD ae ho a ESBS
‘Features Editor: JOHN TASMAN Peg ah Sr > SQA
Literary Editor: LOUISE BISHOP - - - - -  B-9746
, pa a CUP. and Ze: DON BLACK = 2 ras a B-5043
| ‘Proof Editor: DAVID COLDWELL- - - - -  4L-5592
Liaison Editor: WALLACE OGILVIE - - - -__ §-2510

. lation Manager: BOB McCLEAVE - - - B-8576

. ess Manager: - - B-0453

   

mf WRITTEN ABOUT THE LIBRARY

Dalhousie students have as fine an Arts Library as any
university in the Maritimes, but they are not getting as much

7 wt
4
ue

     
     
    
  

eo
S.
re

~*~
a
* lr.
aw

a
re
iy

_ value from it as they might. Many of them graduate from this
institution with a B.A. without having read far beyond the
reference books of the various courses they have taken, and
'_ some of them, sad to say, have not read all of those. To say
this is to cast no reflection upon Dal’s librarians, who have
given faithful and untiring service. It is hoped, however, that
this editorial will stir some students, as well as the Library
Committee, to a realization of the important part a library
ought to play in the education of a university student. To this
ee. ak we are making certain very definite suggestions.
Ta be Our first suggestion is that, in addition to the classifica____ tions of “Overnight” and “Two-week” books there should be a
_ __ third group which might be taken out for three days at a time.
_ ‘There are a few books in such frequent demand that they can_ not be given out for more than one night. They are mostly
___ reference books of which the university’s budget will permit
____ the purchase of but a small number. In allowing them to go
_ ‘out overnight Dalhousie is more liberal than some other colleges
___ which do not permit them to leave the library. Students can
ask for no further eoncessions with regard to those books.
There are many other books, however, which are required
[s reading for certain classes and therefore cannot conveniently
be put on the Two-week” list, but which are not in such demand
that they need to be returned every morning. There are very
_ few books, in-amy case, which the average student can read in
. night. Under the present. system it is necessary for a
3e2%to finish such a book to read it on such
ble to sign for. The creation of a “Three-day”
would, we believe, meet this difficulty. It might
work for the library staff, but the library was

 
 
  
  
 
  
    

  
  

   

“made for the students. Other universities have applied the
idea successfully.

Our second proposal is that students should be allowed to
_ take a greater number of two-week books out of the library.
_ At present undergraduates are allowed to have two books out
_ at one time, while graduate students may have four in their
' possession. The former restriction is irksome, the latter may
_ become a real hindrance to study for those who do most of
_ their work at home. The specialized student does not merely
read books—he has them to consult when the need arises, to
compare with one another, and to criticize. There are enough
books in the library that a more liberal policy is justified.
| Some books, no doubt, are in fairly constant demand. These
Ee might be reduced to three-day status; but there are many

   
  
  
 

been taken out no more than once or twice in the cen
¥ _ card),

tury. There are books several years old which have neat cards

ie hag yet undefiled by the presence of a human signature. We
-__-would suggest that undergraduates be allowed to take out four
___ or five books at a time, graduates to take such as they need
____- within the limits of reason. Incidentally, books kept out by
____ professors should be callable after two weeks.

$ Our third suggestion, which may appear very radical, is

that the stack should be thrown open to a larger number of
people. At Dalhousie entrance to the stack is regarded as a
'__ privilege to be granted only to graduate and Honours students.
_. Many universities throw their stacks open to the entire student
: body, who accept this “privilege” as a natural right. Most of
| these universities have, of course, larger libraries than we have.
It would be almost out of the question for Dalhousie to be quite
that liberal. But it has been our experience, during a year or
two with stack privileges, that the corridors have not re-echoed
over often with the shutfle of academic feet. The occasional
student has wandered through and perhaps studied a while,
but there is accommodation for more. As an experiment, we
would recommend the admission of the entire Senior class. If
the result is bedlam, restrict the privilege to students recommended by professors; if the place is still lonesome, admit the
Juniors. It is only the Freshmen who would really rush to
accept the privilege.

Our fourth suggestion is that professors (harried and overburdened as they are) should consider.it part of their duty to
inform their classes towards the first of the year as to what
books the library contains which have some bearing on their
departments. In some universities lecturers spend the first
week on bibliography, informing the students where they can
find general reference works as well as books and publications
of a more specialized interest. This is especially necessary
where stack privileges are limited and the student must depend
for his knowledge of the library upon the reference shelves and
the card index. It should be a matter of concern to professors
that students are being turned out whose knowledge of
_ books written in English goes no farther than Hanford’s
“Selections from Milton” and a book by a certain Miss Sichel.
_.__Qur fifth, and perhaps most important suggestion, is that
students should read more books. The reaction of most pro____ fessors after reading the last paragraph is that students will
____ hot read half the references they are given, anyway. There is
_ enough truth in that to sting us. Most of us spend our years at
___university doing everything but reading. It is our contention.
___ however, that students would acquire better reading habits if

_ they were given more freedom to use their library and if a
e eee attempt were made by those who can to acquaint
_ them with the treasures which even a small university library
Contains,

 

hae
\
: r
i

  
  
  
    
    
  
  
  
 
  
  
      
  

. 2
f

f 7

he

-.

       

le) ei :

2
Pe eh ¥
A

  

't

1941.

_ others which have (judging from the names marked on the

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

+

, FICTION .

 

"Oh Valiant

It was noon of November 1ith,
Joe Walker lay back on the
couch in the room of his boarding
house. He was tired. His feet were
aching. Joe had been on them since
9 a. m., and he was not used to
marching. He was not in condition.
He had come to college to develop
his mind, to study and learn to appreciate our heritage of literature,
art and music. He wanted to know
a bit about modern advances in
science, philosophy and: all other
phases of intellectual life.

This knowledge would aid him in
shaping his philosophy of life, in
fulfilling, as nearly as possible, his
innermost ideals. It would help him
to live in peace and harmony with
his fellows. He had not counted on
a war.

Joe recalled his experiences of the
morning. He lived again the Memorial Service. He saw and heard the
marching men, the bands, the music
and hymns. He saw the still and
silent faces, bowed in memory before the monument. He _ heard
again those strains: “Oh, Valiant
Hearts, who to your glory came,
Through dust of conflict and through

battle fame,
All you had hoped for, all you had,
you gave,
To save man-kind—yourselves you
scorned to save.”

Yes, they too had ambitions. They
came to shape those ideals into a
purpose, and philosophy of life. Now
they are dead—and nothing but a
memory. They died to save mankind.

He recalled how, two years ago,
he had received news of the outbreak of this war. He remembered
how he had cursed and declared that
there was no God, when such fury
should be let loose in the midst of
mankind. He remembered how his
mother had scolded him, and calmed
him with the thought that perhaps
men caused such calamities to come
upon themselves by their mistakes,
their pride and their greed. She
pointed out to him that he must go
to college and train himself so that
someday he might take his share of
the burden of reconstruction, of reshaping the world.

Eventually Joe became reconciled
to this fact. He came to college. He
began his feeble search for those
great eternal truths. He began to
think that perhaps these political
issues were only passing events.
That, in the words of Emerson,
“some fetish of a government, some
ephemeral trade, or war, or man,
is cried up by half mankind and
cried down by the other half, as if
all depended on this. particular up
or down.”

He would prepare himself for a
greater task, where he would help
the underdog to a new recognition
of himself. He would strive to impart into the mind of the poor and
ignorant slum-dweller a meaning of
the higher things of life. He pitied
the dirty, illiterate youth of the
slum areas, who would never attend
college. Were they not born with
the same varying, hereditary mental possibilities as himself and his
friends? Yet, because of the influence of environment, which no
doubt included illiterate parents,
they were brought up with the same
tendencies and desires as their parents, and so remained in ignorance,
filth and poverty: perfect breeding
ground for modern demagogues,
preaching fascism, communism,
crime, revolt and bloodshed. Surely
people could feel the need for ‘action, for social reconstruction!

Would it come after the war?
Would there eventually be a recognition of this need by men of influence and wealth? Are they blind
when they cannot see that unless
this need for social and economic
equality among all men be met soon,
there will be a grave danger of impulsive action by the under-privileged working man, which might result
in revolution, with its bloodshed and
destruction. Is that not how communism arose in Russia?

Of course, Joe concluded, there
must be practical Socialism, neither

 
 
 

 

 

Hearts..."

the cold, hard, materialism of Russia, nor the idealistic philosophy of
Shelley. We must seek the happy
medium. All men, irrespective of
creed or class, influence or ability,
shall have the same chance at birth
to carve out a decent life for themselves. Then, Joe concludes, my place
must surely be here, to train myself
to take part in the reconstruction, to
help the poor and oppressed fellow
men, in attaining that richer life.

His reverie is interrupted by the
entrance of a chum,

“Here’s a letter for you, Joe.”

Joe takes and examines the envelope. The letters O. H. M. S. are
stamped above his name. He opens
it and reads:

Dear Sir:

If you are still desirous of joining
the Naval Service, as an officer, you
should present yourself before a preiminary selection board, which sits
Geile s easath Bows es es , Hatthax, N. S.
at 8 p. m. on Wednesday, November
12th.

Yours truly,
Lieutenant-Commander

Officers Training Officer.

 

“Oh valiant hearts... .”

No, Joe muses, I shall remain.
Why should I interrupt my college
career and throw away—perhaps
my life. The news-cast interrupts,
“Fierce battle raging before Moscow.” Yes, they too are trying to
find a fuller life for all mankind.
“Many stories came out of Russia
today of the frenzied courage the
men, women and children who are
battling for liberty against the
forces of tyranny.”

Their’s was an experiment; extremely radical perhaps. For twenty
years it has been a Godless experi
ment; yet signs coming from Russia

today seem to protend a return to
the Christian way of life. Then is
there not some chance that time
will increase this renewed Christian
spirit, and temper their experiment
and cause it to develop into a new
way of life? One where a happy
medium will be secured, where men
will remain free and equal! In the
meantime tyranny rules—they fight
and die for us.

“In England today also men and
women are dying for the cause of
freedom andi a Christian way of life.”

Joe recalled a book he had read
not long ago; it concerned the Russo-Finnish war of ’39. A young
Finn has just emerged from a spiritual morass. “Yes, mother, my God
is the young vigorous Christ. He
is the most beautiful thought of the
young men about life and eternity.
He opens the way and leads to victory. He punishes only with an understanding smile and He forgives
everything. He does not force us to
our knees, but lifts us up, and you
can look on him as a comrade.

“Something like that, Mother, is
my understanding of Christ and I
know he will lead ma to victory.”

He will lead me to victory. :

The following night Joe was
among the candidates for naval service. A few months from now Joe
will be at sea he ‘will be fighting
those forces of tyranny

“Oh valiant hearts

 

 

 

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

564% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

Naugler’s

Orchestra

C)

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032

 

 

Faders Drug Stores

 

 
 

    
 

 

 

November 21, 1941

m
ta

K

“Playing parachutes?”

'"

**Nio, coming down for a Sweet Cap!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!
e

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

MacLeod - Balcom
LIMITED
O

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

CO

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

HALIFAX

Nova Scotia

  

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

     
   

Writing Equipment BLAKELEY’S

O

Good writing equipment
makes for better notes in
classes.

Birks have good assortments in the popular lines
—Sheaffer, Parker, Waterman and Wahl.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

WELCOME

TO
DALHOUSIE

C

43 Spring Garden Road

Dalhousie Cnibersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B. Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees
of M.A., M.Sc. : .

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.

Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

a average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, f

about $190 a year.
Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men,

 

 
 
 
  
  

ue
?

s

>

 

t

ou 73

- =
YY ew,
Saar
~ amie #

uy . *

Ua t
a .

> git
ee
ir

s

wr J 7 a
rp = :
t > me ‘
Ine r 21, 1941 
 

a

THE MENTOR

APPROACH AND USE OF THE LIBRARY

One of the Neglects of early School Training is the teaching of
‘Sound Library Usage. Everyone who attends College should be trained
in the use of this Highly Educational feature. Do not Recoil at this
thought, the Library is not to be Disregarded. This is a Profound Truism.
It is the Intellectual Social Centre of the University, and as such, should
be your Refuge. Herewith are some Helpful Hints on the approach and
use of this Useful Facility. ;

The direct approach is, obviously, the best. For beginners, however,
we should like to suggest a more Unobtrusive way. It is customary to
appear after 7.80 p.m., since before this time the Library is not open.
Enter the Main Door Quietly, and look furtively around. If the way is
clear, proceed to your front, and go quickly down the first stairs which
present themselves. You are now in the Basement cum Dressing Room
(Men’s). If Female, veer sharply right, and proceed+through the Curtained Doorway into the mysteries beyond. You will now divest yourself
of your garments. This is essential, due to the Humidity, Stupidity, Profundity, ete., of the upper regions. (Note: If all the lights seem to be
out, you are probably Early).

You are now facing the Real Test. Proceed up the Stairs, and,
without hesitating, thrust yourself through the Glass doors. At one time
one of these was Permanently Fastened, while the other was Free. This
was to impede the over-zealous. By testing the Doors with caution, however, you will have no difficulty in finding the open one. Thrust yourself
through this, and enter into the main Library. If, in your excitement,
you have not noticed the Glass doors, do not apologize; it will be taken
off your Caution Deposit anyway. The important thing, at this point, is
Not to Weaken.

You are now inside. Recover yourself, your Books, and anything else
you happened to drop. This is the Crucial Moment. Do not quail, but
proceed to the nearest Card Index File, and pull out the most convenient
drawer. This is a Meaningless Gesture, but it will give you a chance to
look around and recover yourself.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

'» THE FEATURE FOLIO,»

 

es CEES GF

ISS

There will be som broken nearys
at the sad news that the season on
“Moose” seems to be closed again, |
as he entertains a fair visitor from
Cc. B. If was too good to last.

*. #59 2

We want to know if Bob Dunsmore is still on the ‘Eligible list’.
His ‘draft number’ came up recently, regarding the Community Chest
Dance. Better watch out Bob, they’re
laying for you.

* * a
If you have had any difficulty
in getting in or out of the Gym
at noon the last few weeks, it was
probably due to the popularity
of this place for a certain couple
C’mon, O’Brien, shove out of the
way.
* * *

What happened to Bob Graves. Is
Sue proving that you ean fool some
of the people some of the time, or
was the Law Ball just too much of

an attraction.
ee a

Doug Miller is importing these days.

SLE

DIS

the dance floor too, who paid their

money. Maybe he thinks he can
dance. ... (7)
* * ae

Tasman’s frequent visits to the
Hall these days must be prompted
by something more than a desire for
exercise. Is the attraction in the line
of duty, or something else.

x * *

Why have the girls at the Hall
taken Doug Robinson off their ‘Eligible’ list. His present attachment
can’t be the only reason, but there
it is. Perhaps he could tell us why.

* * co

We should NOT like to apologize
to anyone for this. Why does Don.
“Birdlegs” Black take such a fervent interest in what is said about
Dot. Rose in this column, even to
the extent of takng out items, and
inserting his own efforts. Is he
practising up on his Sir Galahadery. Come now, “Birdlegs” if you
feel that way, why spill things on
her at dances.

u

 

Page Three

my
en

va J i s

Ae

a
WA

a
*

P
J

a, BY,

Uy
{se

J ason searched the world to find that herb of peace
Which we call “Picobae” but they called “Golden Fleece”,

@ What but Picobac could have sustained th

Argonauts upon their tortuous voyaging? An

what but Picobac can console the tedium of
retracing their mythical wanderings? To secure
a supply of Picobac— that mild, cool, sweet
smoke — no journey would be too long. But
you, fortunately, can procure it for a most

modest outlay at the corner store.
also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“It DOES taste good in a pipe!”

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH = 15¢
14-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN - 65¢

  

heh SSS SS SS SS SS

 

 

 

The best possible plan, at this point, is to find yourself a seat. Pro- ee a = 7
ceed to the nearest vacant one, and sit down. You will then be approached | He seemed to be enjoying himself at) ay we quote Dave Smith who is You saw Dalhousie’s sweater girl | Jeckyl and Mr. Hyde at the Capitol
(reproached, etc.) by the Librarian. You are sitting on THE GIRLS’|the Ball, and Acadia will probably |is honoring Halifax with a brief ne, gw and Pa original | now.

SIDE. This will lead to the discovery that the Sexes are Remorselessly benefit from the experience. sweater girl — Lana Turner in Dr.

 

| visit, “Cissy is a senior now and can
‘come in any time she wants to.”

 

a

_ Separated. This is undoubtedly Advantageous, but Distracting. Find

 

 

 

—_—

 

yourself another seat, and take off your coat. Put it on agaim, quickly,
as you catch the Librarian’s eye on you.

To gain confidence, consult the Card Index again, this time in alphabeticak order. Ascertain if certain works are present. Inevitably they
will be. Go to the desk, having memorized the Hieroglyphics pertaining
to the book you want, and then go back to the file, and write them down
on a piece of paper. For your convenience, there are certain boards attached to the filing case to write on. Pull one of these out. Pick it up,
replace it, and hurry back to the desk. Strengthen your resolve, while
the Librarian fetches your book. (Note: Beginners are advised to Idly
Spin the Revolving Card Index on the desk. This is disturbing to others.)

The correct procedure, after having received your book, is to have a
Smoke. This is accomplished by going down stairs again, and chatting
volubly to whoever else is present. This should take about 15 minutes.
Gird yourself, and go back, and this time, use the Right Door.

Proceed to your seat, as before. After you are seated, you will discover
_ you are over the Air Vent, and beside the only Radiator in the room
which is functioning. By practice, however, you will gradually get inured
to these things. Pick up your book. It isn’t the one you wanted, but it
might be interesting, anyway. Thumb through it, reading snatches here
and there. This is Broadening. You will presently discover that the little
Swinging Door on the Office will flick five times for a hard shove—four
on the average. This is Disconcerting, but Diverting. It’s almost time
to have another. Smoke.

When you pass what seems like a decent interval of time, you are
at liberty to return the Book. This is quickly accomplished by simply
depositing it on the desk. Go out the same way by which you entered.
(Note: If you desire a walk to Shirreff Hall, spread rumors about the
Man in the Woods.) You should sleep the sleep of the satisfied: you
have just completed a Hard Night’s Work at the Library, in the customary manner—and should have no future difficulty.

ee

» Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

 

Episode Six

at King Karl’s own oaken bread
Entitled PROKOV for PRESIDENT. | board was his deadly enemy

“What this story needs,” said
Sammy Skunk as he bustled into
Atwood Alley, “is tidying up,”
whereupon he ordered another Polar
Pie and continued lecturing John
Gaunt on the advantages of BOILING ESSENCE as opposed to the
abstruse sort of thing issuing three
times per week from Binnet’s Brain
Bleaching Boratoz and the motely
collection of Capitalistic advertisements and Uneapitalistic editorials
appearing weakly in the Dulhousie
Gazoot. John Gaunt, however, his
jowls dripping hungrily as _ he
watched Sammy downing the Polar
Pies, one after the other, in a very
ungenerous manner, had other plans.

Sidling up to Prissie Magnanamous and Prue reMorse who had
just come shyly dancing out of the
Tiger’s dressing rooms, he hoarsely
whispered a single word into their

ears which sent the two of them

sereaming into King Karl’s office
into the arms of Miss Heavenly who
tidied them up somewhat and neatly

arranging the two little sweater
bits

_*
a

 

j & rooting section, for there, seated

i<
a

fulls of innocence in chairs, went to
inform King Karl of their agitation.
Opening the door she recoiled in
horror, squealing like an Acadian

PROKOV.

 

wok
FA)

As the news of King Karl’s disappearance spread by word of
mouth, the Gazoot, due to the effects of circulation manager McLeak, being mistakenly distributed
to the bewildered natives in Ecum
Secum, anxious groups of studes
stood around in the flower beds demanding that the status quo as at
now, be maintained. Doug Quirkpettingquick could be observed running up and down the flagpole with
buckets of green mist which he emptied into the void while Wubber
MeTunnelled and his Slimy Solons,
one short due to last weeks Inelection, lurked in the recesses of the
Haunt of Ghouls plotting a PepDally in an effort to organize a manhunt for King Karl.

Will King Karl be found? Will
anyone look for him? Or will John
Gaunt smother PROKOV with Gazoots?

   

The Rage of the Ball, or, for that)
matter, any dance, was our Gardner. |
Will somebody break the news to
him gently that there are others on

 

T.SQUARE |

Were wondering whether we still
have any readers after last week.
We hope that engineers are still held
in their usual respect (?) around
the campus. Of course everyone
realizes that there’s no malice in our
minds, so lets get down to business.
We give up to Johnny Rogers. His
school pin is gone, but he says, “I
ain’t talking—see!” Come on John,
let us in on it—or are you ashamed?
It’s terrible when fellows won’t incriminate themselves.

While we’re on the subject Hall
and Schouler had better take care,

pEAR DIARY

Tuesday
Today was a holiday. Slept in all
morning. Football in the afternoon.
Good game, and a surprise tea
dance—no surprise to me that I
didn’t go.

 

 

Wednesday
Horrors! That ghastly list in the
library! And have you heard this
one, “So sorry that I can’t go out
tonight because I have to study.”

Thursday
(Very early in the morning, very
early). “Wake me early I have a
nine at Forrest.” Bio. 1 quiz —
groans and midnight oil.
Friday
I overheard this one at the Law
Ball, FRAGILE hasn’t got that delicate touch—he spilt ginger ale (?)
on his fair partner’s new dress.”
Saturday
That lab instructress in Bio. lwas
“sood goods’. But House Committee
spoils every Saturday. However this
week, there were surprisingly few
on the list, considering it was for
two weeks. Are the girls getting
better or are they just not getting
asked out?
Sunday
There was a very small crowd of
guests in for tea—rumours about
the food must be getting around (?)
I saw a real knight (Sir B. McG.)
in the Hall tonight—the line formed
on the right and skipped gayly back
and forth scattering floral offerngs.
Monday
Monday was a total loss. However as Henry Reardon might have
said, “See you next week?”

4 i Y « ma |
‘ia a z a ‘
ia 7a a

Especially Monday.

4 * *

Grime Marches On.

for we know of their interest in
the South End. Are you in EARNEST boys?

We know that Jack MacKenzie is |
a swell dancer, but Vera sure makes!
that cheek-to-cheek stuff look okty.
What do you think Jack, or should
we ask? Wiswell doesn’t do too
badly at the same (personally we
believe its coming in style), but
anyway we don’t blame him. Wis is
quite the guy for starting things;
remember the “tag dances” not so
long ago.

 

We know several who learn with
dismay that gasoline may be rationed. It makes Shubenacadie look
pretty far away, doesn’t it, Lantz?

ORPHEUS

ALL WEEK
oT x AS”

and

 

 

OXFORD

Friday - Saturday
“She Knew All The Answers”
“Washington Melodrama”

Garrick

A Famous Players Theatm
Saturay - Monday - Tuesday

Monday and Tuesday “NEW YORK TOWN”

and
“THE GAY FALCON”

“Moon Over Miama”’

“Gay Vagabond” TT ee ee eee er oe
Wednes. - Thursday - Friday

“THE DOMINANT SEX”
and
“DANGEROUS CARGO”

C' é
Gye Theatre

Friday - Saturday - Monday

Spencer Tracey

Lana Turner

DR. JEKYLL AND
MR. HYDE
s

 

Wednesday and Thursday

“Sinful Woman”
“Rad Men of Missouri”

The New

CASINO

*

“Appointment
For Love”

Tuesday - Wednes. - Thursday
Claudette Colbert

“SKYLARK”

Friday - Saturday

 

et SSS SSS SS

“2 LATINS FROM

MANHATTAN” Charles Boyer

Paulette Goddard
“HOLD BACK
THE DAWN”

SUPERMAN

 

Margaret Sullivan

Midnite Show — SUNDAY
“TEXAS”
“2 Latins From Manhattan”

Charles Boyer

EXTRA

 

 

PASS A)

SA
You'll welcome ice-cold “Coca-Cola” just as often and as surely
as thirst comes. You taste its quality, the quality of genuine
goodness. Ice-cold “Coca-Cola” gives you the taste that charms

and never cloys. You get the feel of complete refreshment,
buoyant refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more.

    

Jee COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

 

Seute y ee - ” a , SS =*
~

tie

San aha ie SL a P 3 7 a ‘ “
OR OF Oe CES RU ele sae
7 1. ire ‘ee TF Z a tans > c Fil PR et 
a, ; >it

‘
1

 

a

ei, i i 
45 ee a
: * RY “op a)
' ev lh eae a

ae cs
} ahi

   
 
  
     
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
      
  
  
   
      
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
  

_DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

~CO-EDS ONLY |Do You Ping-Pong?

“A speck, t, a shape, I wist The sound and fury, the tumult
io eo. BF a | and the shouting heard last week, on

Could this but mean those dread| the campus was nothing more seriexams? ous than Colin Smith, Manager of

Pvorh whidh ¢k Mow wé steered *” Ping-Pong, who was peeved because
the Gazette failed to give any prom‘Could be, but why let a little

ee —~ . ~s blicity to his Fall Table| isi gas-week ‘ek seen the lesser athletic lights on the campus take | thing like a few books take up all home oy punivtty to Bie Hall Table

® Don’t think an Tennis Tournament.
Our me ! eT ee Notice is therefore hereby given

ee sph oh a “aioe the Interfaculty Rugby sade had been run off, oF. Gwo of badminton, plus a few ty Si) those wholhave’dlanified their
* is the Arts and Science aggregation cleaning up. In the first game of | practices of basket-ball would me
year, the Lawyers strove with might and main, but were undone by the very best thing for you? We’re
eers. The Engineers, in their turn, were upset by the Arts and | quite sure it would.
nee “entry, who managed to withstand a Medicinal challenge and win; And then there’s that long delaychampionship. © ed ping-pong net that has arrived,
Vith respect to the Interfaculty final, a story was circulating in the | and hails some to start the game go- Last year’s winner was Henry
. - University Store the other afternoon to this effect: “Who,” asked the|ing, which means you when you’re Reardon, who is not present this
_ Reflective Freshman, “is playing in the interfaculty game this after- wondering what to do. Phyl Bar- year to defend himself, or rather, to
_ hoon?” “Arts and Science and Engineers,” came the reply. “Gosh,” was} ratt has balls for only a nickel. Try defend his title.
og awed observation, “won't there be a wild time with three teams in/them! And we may add thatagame| pj he Pone ts? one of! tie Betterfi 7 of doubles is just as good as singles,| known Dalhousie sports, and it behog memes if

 

intention of participating: the
tournament is now under way, and
you are requested to find your opponent and get your match out of
the way immediately.

 
    
 

; s ~ body to rally
r have told us ¢ i] be and more fun hooves the student :

 

"seems S athaasis intends to apbekie a team in the College Rervine ice ete Senate. < hg ae | utmost support.
League, and probably with hopes of better success than attended the uni- : : ; er a ra pe po : MEDS LOSE
fh _yersity’s ice efforts last year, when not a game was won. (If anybody | but why let Pin aecem, “OSE TARO ee Pee ee
has heard of the Tiger hockey team winning a game in recent years, |S° often during ees end after-| Than whose real Places have
_ please communicate with this department. The team could use the pub-|noon free parece ae HIMES “OUG)” ON shall never grace these pages)
~ licity.). ke of ten you'll find there's plenty of plunged over the Med line with the |

fs ee Perhaps one hope for this year is that the Tigers will be a little} room for a badminton seme, and touchdown «which ended Medicine’s|
ithotale for the coming campaign, while Tech and St. Mary’s might be|that LADDER that we mentioned |) 16 reign of Inter-Faculty Football |
_ weaker. Among those who will be turning out for practices (either vol-|so long ago hasn’t shown any SHER | supremacy. The attempt to con-|
ak _untarily or by dint of much coaxing) are “Sandy” MacDonald, Web Mac-| of change. Surely you aren’t satis- vert failed and trans Bie test kick- |
Donald, Russ Webber, Dooly McIntosh, Gordie Wilson, Marty McDonald, | fied to remain where you are and off the Med attack rolled relentlessly |
Dave Doig,’ Bob Blois, Blanch Wiswell, “Herky” Vaughan, Joe Mac- leave Anne Goodeve unchallenged down thes Held. Bae Ee Atte aoa

_ Dougall, Joe Feindel and “Herbie” Grant. There are distinct possibilities | at the top! tsk! tsk! It doesn’t take Sctance tervitory . the. Med udvaries
Re? in such a line-up. We might have an excellent year on the blades. Who! long to challenge someone, and play | literally bogeed down .as General

knows? the best two out of three games. Mud came to the aid of Inez’s hard

Does anybody know the technique whereby the Students’ Council is Cee i fee. . pressed warriors. The remainder
: oni)? ? ’ i s to . of the game was shrouded in merci- |
i test creeney tc hasndsot bucks tor ex, |Usted, and you who haven't, can add [o")"%S f
penses. The D.A.A.C. spends this money to operate its teams and to buy ere ei d is Kav B
__ equipment. But all revenues from games and resale of the equipment OE ETE. | 50 MSY, SUnDY | sight the embattled hordes. But to_ «goes, not to the D.A.A.C., as we might expect, but to the Council, who | 24 Mary ae sags first night of night Ignatz and her boys reign|
i forthwith salt the sheckels away, and then set up a great howl about|>adminton? We'd like to see you supreme!

 

ful obscurity as water and mud_|
slowly seeped over and covered from |

 

 

 

 

 

Re lack of funds, and the need for retrenchment. Can you whiff the pungent |°Wt more often, ye co-eds, to eM) a ; =
an Salih GF eodornt? encourage some Tuesday evening Grads. Photo | Schedule _
ae: | Sames. Wednesday, Noy. 26—P.M.

A. & S. STOP T-SQUARE SCOURGE Ye who ‘like the GENTLER| 2.0—B. F. Long

ia WITH “ZAT’S’” SOLO SCORING SPLURGE = SPORTS! Try ping-pong, (see| 2.15—Dot Macdonald

Pe’ Bh ys warmed up to their work, and when | 2>°Ve). We'd like to see some tour-| 2.30__A, MacIntosh

i In last week’s Gazette we chron-| Sgt. Swansburg led Corporals Oland | 2#™€nts in this game, and even per-| 2.45—Igabell McKean

icled the unhappy adventures of the| and Bagnell on a mad dash through haps a challenge to the boys at some 3.00—Dot MacKenzie
Lewel Eagles when they encountered | the T-Square lines, strewing broken future date. Play and help your; 3.15—RE. Morris

the Energetic Engineers. The T-| Binge-ineers to the right and left, |¢lub by showing interest. | 4.00—J. ee
Square Triflers had scarcely: recov-| Gerald Prat could be seen serveying| By the way, how about taking a} 4.15—M. Parkes
ered from the shock of defeating |the wreckage, wringing his hands, |few minutes off to check up on the 4.30—M. Pope

the Judicial Jurists, when they were | and wailing in a high (c. o. t.) C; |Sports, and choose one or two or 4,45—I, Publicover
‘Sorely beset by the Artistic and| “Gosh oh golly, gosh oh gee, even three that you’d like to take 5,00-—L, Read
Seientifie ilk. What carnage en-| Where in heck is the L.A.D.?” | part in? Then encourage your club Friday, Nov. 28—P.M.
sued! Hastily concealing their| All this time the Binge-ineers had | Captain by letting her know that you 2.00—E. Rettie
knives, clubs and axes, the A, and S.| been setting-up bear-traps, and|Wwant to put your dime’s worth in,| 2-15—H. Re Roby

_ Brigands trotted blithely out upon! more especially “tank” traps, where- | None of us are experts, and we all 2.30—W. G. Rowe
the field, and fell to with a ven-|in to ensnare the A. and S. gentry. |Tealize that NOW is the time to} 2-45—M. Barnes

_geance. While Cox, Roy and Woods They had even gone so far as to|learn! 8.00—R. Churchill
of the A. and S. were administering | sick a stray dog upon the fleet-foot-| “But tell me, tell me! speak again, 3.15—A. DeMone
-a hotfoot to Hagen of the Binge-|ed Zatsman, but the latter out- Thy soft response renewing— 3.30—A, Dunn
inmeers, via the blowtorch routine, | thought and out-hoofed the mongrel, What makes these sports so alien| 2-49—R- Finley

F: Kirkpatrick was the object of some| and scored a try to send the game to us? meee : owler |
se deft mud-slinging on the part of|into overtime. The game having What is the co-ed doing? 4.15— aes
_ Wiswell and Wickwire. However,| gone into overtime, both teams —With apologies to Coleridge. 4.30-—J. Fraser

» . ibs not content with throwing the soft| pressed for the deciding try. The} —-——$_ |S 4.45—J. French
RT and gooey, the three M’s (McKay,| Binge-ineers were about to start a| ordering coffee from Roy’s P recari- | E
He ie Moore and Musset) had seized the | final push across the A. and S. line, | 0US Percolator .. . a4
* “Kirk” by his Gable-ears, and were | when Wiswell’s backfield passed the (Will the A. and S. aggregation | The NATIONAL FISH CO.
_ manipulating the Kirkpatrick face | buckskin once too often, and the| Stand up under the onslaught of the LIMITED
ie _ mm a foot and a half of the more-| grasping Zatsman snared the oval,| Medico’s? Run, (do not walk) for FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
| __ than-mildly mucky. “Trader” Horne,| to dash seventy-five yards for the | next week’s Gazette, and learn the HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA
hae meanwhile, was offering to sell En-| decisive try. His convert was suc-| horrible details). | |
gimeer hides at bargain prices to| cessful. The score now being 8 to 3 |
unsuspecting bystanders. The stage|in favor of the Arts and Science |
was set for the stupendous scuffle. lucksters, and the game over, they
When referee “Burnie” Ralston immediately joined hands and began
blew the opening whistle, the En-/| to prance a dance around the dis- W ALL ACE. SHOES om
gineers kicked the ball, and the Arts | consolate Binge-ineers, chanting the
_-and Science kicked the Engineers. | while:

_ Heaving with might and main, and “Bumptious Bumpkins, there you

 

 

egged on from the sidelines by the,  lie— . Now is the time to buy Boots and Skates (

sulphurous exhortations of engineer- But where were you when “Zats” ;
linesman-coach “Lightning” MeKen-| went by?” for Men and Women. ) |
zie, the Engineers controlled the| This chorus having been composed, p |

i Play for the greater part of the| delivered and directed by Bob Mur____ Struggle. McHattie, hero of the| phy, to the accompaniment of wd
; Binge-ineer - Legal Eagle set - to,| licks from John “Rufe” Fraser’s

again led the Ruffian charge, and trumpet, these gentlemen retired in| WALLACE BROS.
Scored a try early in the contest to| high glee to the University Store, LIMITED

give the Engineers a 3-0 lead. How-| where they promptly ate themselves
ever, the game was far from over. | into insensibility. The entire affair hae
The old Artistic and Seientific mean-| almost ended on a tragic note when 415 BARRINGTON ST. HALIFAX, N. S.
__ies hadn’t even begun to get dirty| the crestfallen and despairing John
“yet. They hadn’t even torn any- McLean and Oscar Sandos of the|
_body’s ear off. They weren't having | defeated Binge-ineers were discovany fun. Gradually, however, they| ered attempting to “end it all” by

 

     

WHAT GOOD IS A PUP?

A pup is cute and mischievous, but you cannot
tell just by looking at him what ser vices he will perform for his master when he grows up.

When the telephone first put in its appearance in
1876, like the pup, few could forsee how serviceable
it would become.

Now the telephone brings folks together millions
of times each day. Communities once far distant are
now next door, and entire nations are united.

The “Pup” is a real “dog’’ now.

Maritime Telegraph and Telephone Co.

Limited

 
    
 

 

 
 
   

  
  
  
  

  
 

- Carefully tailored and fitted . .. are a definite
asset from both a social and business viewpoint.

   
  
 
 
 

   
    
 

We Sell Good Clothes — Reasonably Priced

         

 

 

 

 

   
     
  
    
    
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
  

 
  
  
   

You're missing a lot if you
haven't tried Philip Morris
Mixture, today’s greatest

Bes 4
value in pipe tobacco.

In pouches, packages and /% Ib. tins.

 
 
     
    
 
 

Four Expert Barbers to Improve

CUT FLOWERS, ete. Your Appearance and no

boatn long waiting at

THE FLOWER SHOP a eee
B-7133 |

41 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

od

Specializing in Leather - 
Brief Cases and Paper Cases
of All Kinds. At Reduced
Prices.

KELLY’S LIMITED

118 Granville St. B-6902

    
     
     
 

SMART CLOTHES

with that Professional touch so admired
by College Men —

THE STORE PREFERRED BY STUDENTS

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

A Discount of 10% to Students

  

The best
chocolate made

eilsnn':

Compliments of

S. Cunard and Co., Limited

HEAT MERCHANTS SINCE 1835

    

 

Hard Coal, Soft Coal, Coke, Fuel Oil

Halifax, N. S. Dartmouth, N. S.

> a
a erasnnemnenrsassnestnnnnnee-s-eneeeeee

 
